

BEN LOMOND from Inveruglas
( Dumbartonshire )
'Through the depths, of Loch Katrine the steed shall career,
O’er the peak of Ben Lomond the galley shall steer,
And the rocks of Cra/g Royston like icicles melt
E’er our wrongs he forgot, or our vengeance unfelt.”
LOMOND, the beautiful guardian mountain of
the frossachs, subject of innumerable efforts of pen
and brush, was once the property of wild Rob Roy. In
the gathering song of the Clan Gregor, Ben Lomond figures
in their awe-inspiring cry for vengeance against the powers
which scattered them, homeless and nameless, from the
lands which had been theirs from the dawn of hlighland
history. But wherever they be, these clansmen of a royal
race express, like Dewar’s, the spirit of an unconquerable
Highland pride, adhering ever to the noblest of traditions.
X
x>
Ife:
i.
Pox
®k\?v
V
W/
V'T/
&
d
'fjtytWEh
•JR?
UN
..v-
M
n
3
X;
&
In response to many requests. Dewar's have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
in a size suitable for framing, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Melbourne
or Sydney. Please mention this paper, date,
and title of illustration required.
DEWAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
THE
SPIRIT
O F
OLD
SCOTLAND
The Bulletin
How the Other Half Lives—Read “Tiburon”
Vol. 56.—N0. 2908.
Wednesday, November 6, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
•story! Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mv Address
SB. 135
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the .V H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
truste es have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
faction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kmd. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
r s follows 11 ?-" t 0 t^ ose govern^n S the first year’s competition,
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intendin'*
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
WITHOUT
THE LAW
Even such a
title as Mr. Jus-
tice A vary will
be quite power-
less to prevent the
book being read
in large numbers. On the contrary, it
will be considerably more magnetic than
titles that fairly drip with seductive
lures, including a hint of seduction itself.
Such is the irresistible fascination which
hangs about the law.
Everybody knows that attraction. It
is not merely that much of the law is
an enlargement of back-fence scandal,
though to some extent it is that, its
places of business being second to none
lor the washing of dirty linen, either as
to amount or as to the thoroughness of
the laundry-hands. There is more in
the attraction than that —a mixture of
elements. The law is not in itself sen-
sational ; it frowns upon the word ; yet
it is the source of the very wildest of
sensational news. It could scarcely
fairly be called theatrical, in spite of the
ritualistic shifts it pursues to uphold its
dignity; yet it is a better draw, in the
theatrical sense, than an unexpurgated
Mae West film. And there is nobody,
however blameless, however unlikely a
candidate to appear as one of its count-
less temporary compulsory actors, who
does not stand a little in awe of it.
Yet it attracts even these ; not only
directly—-there are thousands who have
never attended even its most minor per-
formances-—bu t in all sorts of indirect
ways. This is evident in the existence
of such an institution as the Crime Club.
Our warrant for mentioning the exist-
ence of this club is the statement ort the
dust-jackets of a certain class of works
of the imagination published by Messrs.
Collins, Ltd., London. According to this
information, there are 25,000 members
of the Crime Club, and the membership
list includes “doctors, clergymen,
lawyers, university dons, civil servants,
businessmen; it includes two million-
aires, three world-famous statesmen, 32
knights, 11 peers of the realm, two
princes of the royal blood and one prin-
cess'” —in short, a good representative
lot of average citizens. If it happens
that you are not a member of this
auspicious kindergarten, you can easily
become one ; there is no charge.
The sworn business of the club is
apparently to read as many of the crime
stories published by Messrs. Collins as
possible, compatible with retaining one’s
sanity; and all this is clearly part of the
fascination which belongs to the law,
because a crime story without the law
would be as impossible as the law with-
out a crime story. All of which goes to
explain why. with a title as uncom-
promising as the subject of it himself,
Mr. Justice A vary will be well read quite
outside what may be called, without
rudeness, the profession.
The core of this appeal is, of course,
the fact that the life of a great lawyer
must necessarily be also the story of a
great many others brought before the
law. Beside this, his existence as a pri-
vate individual hardly matters, as Mr.
Justice Avory’s biographer, Stanley
Jackson, himself a barrister, fully recog-
nises. Mr. Jackson goes further in recog-
nising the interest of the law itself over
the lawyer, to the extent, for instance,
of giving a good, breezy account of the
Oscar Wilde case, though the then Mr.
Avory, barrister, had hardly anything to
do with that trial. In this way the book
serves both as an interesting Life of a
most unpicturesque man —they called
him the Silent Knight, and he evidently
merited it —and also as an anthology of
several dozen very interesting cases,
if such a tainted posy can fairly be
called an anthology.
There are links with Australia in
several of these still-remembered trials.
For example, the case of the Australian-
born Colonel Lynch, who for his be-
havior in South Africa was tried in
London for high treason and sentenced
to death. This was commuted to a life
sentence, but he was released after a
year, represented County Clare in the
British Parliament for 10 years, and in
the war became a colonel in the British
Army. The stories of this and other
such trials are capitally told, and there
are enough of them to satisfy even the
addict who demands at least 10 murders
to a book.
When
Justice
Falters
In those trials
there are a num-
ber in which, in
the author’s view,
justice clearly fal-
tered. One of
these, rather
curiously, is the Wilde case, of which
Mr. Jackson says that had the trial
taken place after 1907, when the Court
of Criminal Appeal was formed, if is
doubtful whether either the conviction
or the sentence would have been allowed
to stand, the conviction having been
“based on the uncorroborated evidence
of accomplices, whilst the sentence was
one of almost barbarous severity.”
Another of these cases in which jus-
tice even more palpably faltered was that
of the unhappy Beck, who, having been
identified by a number of women as the
chap who had been getting rings and
other jewellery from them by false pre-
tences, served two different lots of im-
prisonment, though he was absolutely
innocent on both occasions, the culprit
being an Austrian of the vast name of
Smith, whose evil history included hav-
ing practised here in Australia as a
doctor.
Of such falterings of justice a com-
plete book has been fashioned by
Richard S. Lambert, with the title When
Justice Faltered. Mr. Lambert’s busi-
ness, however, is not simply giving in-
stances of innocence unjustly con-
demned. He explains that business
nicely himself: — <
The theme of this book is the action
oj justice under difficulty. I present here
nine cases of murder (or presumed
murder) whose common feature is that
• the machinery of the law either broke
down or failed to function with credit.
The cause is to be sought either in the
nature ot the crime or in the short-
comings of those who had to deal with
it.... But their chief interest is psychologi-
cal—-not merely , the psychology of the
accused, as in most murder cases, but
the psychology of his pursuers and
accusers and judges, too, who here, for-
saking their ordinary role of “hunters,”
themselves come up for trial before our
bar of morals and commonsense.
Easily the raosf interesting is the first
in the book, in which the excellence of
the material is matched by excellent tell-
ing. In most of the others there is a
good deal of squalid sordidness, and
also much involved tangle which the
author does not successfully straighten
out. But here, in the story of the Rev.
John Selby Watson, is a clean, swift bit
of murdering, climax, it seems, to a life
of silently endured nagging, and all over
in a moment. An idea of the social
circumstances of the case can be had by
imagining Dean Inge suddenly murder-
ing his wife (if he has one); The Rev.
Watson was an eminent scholar. He
translated a good deal for Bohn’s
“Classics,” and one of his works was
selected by Sir John Lubbock for in-
clusion in a “Hundred Best Books” and
reappeared in Everyman’s Library as re-
cently as 1910. For a quarter of a cen-
tury he was a headmaster, and he was
approaching 70 years of age when,
apparently under provocation of some
unforgivable insult, he did the murder.
A plea of insanity saved his neck, though
a jury found him guilty, and he spent
the last 12 years of his life as a convict
In the nine cases justice is seen at
work in England, France and America,
and there is food for lively thought in
the fact that, had almost any one of
the trials taken place in one of the
countries other than it was held-in, a
different verdict might very well have
been recorded. And the Rev. Watson’s
lunacy plea would almost certainly win
a favorable verdict in England to-day.
An
Unmitigated
Villain
In the same
class Of reading
might be num-
bered Richard
Savage , a novel
by Gwyn Jones,
since the whole
of it is enacted within the shadow of the
law. It is a vigorous, heartily-written,
rolling narrative, with story all the way
through it, recording the shady, not to
say inky-dark, life of the eighteenth-
century poetaster, pimp, blackmailer
and worse of the title-name, who was
taken up by Pope and, in this account,
by sundry citizens of social standing
who lived to wish earnestly that they
had never heard of him.
As Mr. Jones handles this unsavory
career, the narrative becomes a capital
study of the gradual progress of a
scoundrel, emphasising, among other
things, what a difficult thing to cope
with in any society is a conscienceless
blackmailer. At the beginning Savage
is an obscure, wholly inoffensive young
chap. But for learning of his claim to
be the illegitimate son of nobility, he
would probably have lived a blameless
life. In the role of claimant his true
character comes out, and a pretty spec-
tacle it is. From being the innocent
tool in a couple of robberies with
murder, he first becomes an accomplice,
and later, after he has connived to send
his tempter and leader to the gallows,
takes up blackmail and false pretence
on his own aocount, more unscrupu-
lously than those who trained him.
There is hardly an untainted character
in the book. The gallery includes a
cruelly convincing picture of Pope, who,
in this account, had from Savage the raw
material for his “Dunciad” and other
social satires. One of the best figures, in
treatment and performance, was the cleric
whose affair with a married lady is scur-
rilously used, but who eventually wrecked
Savage, though it cost him a bishop-
ric to do it.
Most readers may wish the author
had employed a competent sub-editor,
though the fact that a second impression
of the book had to be made before pub-
lication might seem to make that at least
questionable. Still, many might feel that
the yarn, especially as it is unmitigated
villainy from beginning to end, could
have been well told in half the length.
The publishers would hardly agree with
that, since they cap its length with what
must be one of the longest blurbs on
record, a fantastic rigmarole which
meanders all over the dust-jacket, and a
deafening loud one, too.
RED PAGE.
[Mr. Justice Avory, by Stanley Jackson
(Gollancz; 225. 6d.); I When Justice Faltered,
by Richard S. Lambert (Methuen; 165.);
Richard Savage, by Gwyn Jones (Gollancz;
10s. 6d.)—from Angus and Robertson.]
Why T. E.
Lawrence's
Popularity?
We tend to sen-
timentalise and
romanticise over
life’s failures, es-
pecially when the
failures, wittingly
o r unwittingly.
have made a public and picturesque
appeal for sympathy. The reason is
that we do not feel as great a distance
between ourselves and the failures as
we do between ourselves and the great
shining successes.
This, it seems to me, accounts largely
for the present enormous vogue of
T. E. Lawrence. His Seven Pillars of
Wisdom has been acclaimed as a great
work of literature, his life is pointed to
as a magnificent gesture, and he is also
claimed to have been a great archselogist
and Empire-builder. Lawrence did not
regard himself as a successful writer.
When H. G. Wells said that Revolt in the
Desert was not a work of art *but a great
human document (as if a great human
document could be anything but a work
of art), Lawrence retorted that the case
was exactly the opposite. He said that
Revolt in the Desert was not a human
document, but a strained and self-con-
scious attempt to be literary. It was
one of his qualities that he was capable
of being honest with himself.
He did not say he was an Empire-
builder, like Raffles, Brooke or Warren
Hastings, but a man who went out to
sow dissension among Arab tribes and
found that his job was little different
from that of any other secret-service
agent, that the promises he made could
never be fulfilled, and that he was, in
fact, not acting honestly. After his ex-
pected failure to influence the territory-
grabbing statesmen of Versailles he set
out to absolve his bad conscience by a
public confession. At once he became
a symbol for romantic political Byron-
ism and a world figure whom painters
and sculptors were delighted to have sit
to them. He then sought anonymity,
like the hero in Conrad’s Lord Jim,
with the only result that he received
more limelight than any living indi-
vidual, whether he was on the Indian
frontier as an aeroplane mechanic, em-
ployed on an English aerodrome where
distinguished visitors enraged his colonel
by showing him more deference than
they did his superior officer, or leading
a quiet life in an English county, in a
cottage with a provocative inscription
in Greek over the doorway.
these things do not happen by acci-
dent. When a man affects modesty and
instantly becomes a notoriety we sus-
pect unconscious motivation for be-
havior which achieves exactly the oppo-
site result that he imagines he is seek-
ing. When he makes public confession
of his sinfulness, like a communicant at
a Salvation Army meeting, and is
accepted as a noble character, again we
suspect the work of the unconscious.
What one sees in Lawrence is an ex-
traordinarily sensitive individual who
in his youth had artistic yearnings
crossed by the ordinary conditioning of
the English public-school boy. He said
that in his schooldays he harbored the
fantasy of being the man who would
weld Asia into a great unity. When he
tried to pul this fantasy into operation
he came up against the fact that his edu-
cation and his talent provided him only
with the equipment for being a secret-
service agent. His positive achievement
was to improve the methods of guerilla
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation.
ANTHONY
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. PITT, GOULBURN AND
“THE SENIOR STORE”—While I Live I'll Grow.
HORDERN S'
GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address; Box 2712 C. G.P.O.
THIRD BUILDING
ALTERATION
SALE
Only seven weeks to Christmas —they must
have their toys, so buy now at reduced prices!
m
m
m
m
Two - way Rockaway
The Two-way Rockaway can be
used as an ordinary rockaway,
and when turned upside down
forms a comfortable chair with
food tray; both seats are well
padded, and the whole is strongly
constructed and well finished.
Price 12/6
Sale Price .... 10/6
HORSE AND CART
A toy that is ever popular with
small children. Horse can be un-
harnessed; strongly constructed
and beautifully finished.
Price 15/6
Sale Price .... 14/6
THE PAD HORSE
A pleasing toy for the tiny tots!
Price 5/6
Sale Price, each, 4/9
Sturdy All - Steel BARROW
Just what he wants for Christmas! Strongly-
made Steel Barrows, length overall 27in.;
body 12in. x 12in., with 6in. rubber-tyred
disc wheel. Price 6/9
Sale Price, each 6 3
CfcWS.HMW
AAV.
\/\
%
CENTENARY AIR RACE GAME
Here’s a most fascinating and instructive game for children of all ages! The
Centenary Air Race Game follows the route taken in the great air race.
with battery and coloured globes. Price 3/6
Sale Price 3 “
“DESIGNOSCOPE”
The Magic Designer. Place a
pinch of confetti or scraps of
coloured material, flower petals,
etc., and turn base slowly round
then view the marvellous colourful
designs produced.
Price 2/6
Sale Price 2/3
Stranq-lilx
Te»se^
Strong - lite
Aluminium
Tea Set
They’re unbreak-
able and will give
hours of pleasure.
Price, set . . 3/6
Sale Price,
Set . . 2/11
“AMUSU” - a highlj
educational game. Worked
with battery and globe. Put
a point on any question and
move the other point over the
answers, and when the correct
one is reached the globe lights
up. Price 2/11
Sale Price . . . 2/6
A//
*32
C/ Mf.
u
&
\ !
/hrx\
M
urn
BABY BETTY DOLL
She’d just love a Baby Betty
Doll I These are beautifully
dressed in attractively coloured
striped Organdi and made to
withstand plenty of hard treat-
ment. Price 6/9
Sale Price . . . 6/3
*43>
A/ 0-5
X/
viV- X—^
«-//
CELLULOID DOLLS
A Really BIG D 011—24
inches high!
A doll that will give hours of
joy and lasting pleasure because
it is so lifelike and is unbreak-
able. In best quality Celluloid.
Price 10/6
Sale Price 7 6
Down Quilts for Dolly’s Pram
Attractive little Cosy Quilts, well made and
covered with brightly-patterned fabrics. Size
23in. x 1 Price 2/6
Sale Price, each 2/3
Wardrobe, Dressing
Table and Chair
An ideal Bedroom Set for Dolly! it
comprises Wardrobe, 14in. high,
12in. wide, deep and a well-
made Table and Chair which will
easily pack inside the Wardrobe.
Price, set 9/11
Sale Price, set . . 8 11
M iiilpF-
y'/A
■m
SHtTTU
► TENNIS
<3
SHUTTLE TENNIS
A popular game that can be
played indoor or outdoor.
Price, set 27-
Sal e Price, set . . 1/9
Mickey Mouse DOLL
A great favourite! Mickey or
Minnie Mouse Dolls that are un-
breakable. Benefit by the worth-
while saving. Price 2/3
Sale Price l x 9
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Deposit Purchase System
To secure your Christmas Toys with the help of our D.P.S. is by far the easiest way
possible. Make a Lay-by without delay . . . and benefit by the genuine price reductions
made possible by our Building Alteration Sale. A small deposit is necessary to secure
the goods, then you can pay of the balance in convenient monthly instalments. There
is no interest charged for this splendid convenience.
Enamelled Cane
Matting Prams
Well made with movable
hoods, rubber-tyred wheels
and attractively enamelled
in pink or blue. As illus-
trated. Price 17/6
Sale Price, 15^9
m
0 Toys—Second Floor. Free delivery City and Subutbs
only.


About Your Indigestion.
r\
&
m
>c
G
V 5
INTESTINES
r *
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE
Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
meriting food. Excess acidity is the
Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE
Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of
stomach eventually causes painful
mation (gastritis ot dyspepsia),
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
a weak
inflam-
and, in
or HERE
Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agon,sing gnawing pain is the symptom,
this pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with
intensity shortly after.
agonising
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and common*
sense way and if you
persevere it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
PlP«T n . t v ing tKe . stomach De Antacid Powde-.
I-IK3ILY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feelin-
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister — 1
2/6
warfare in the desert and the methods
ol secretly financing revolting native
tribes during wartime, and this is,
according to one of his most enthusi-
astic biographers, the sum of his con-
tribution to human progress.
Yet his statesmanlike dreams were
conditioned by the works of such men
as Doughty and Richard Burton. I know-
nothing of him as an archaeologist, and
have not heard of any work of his that
has advanced this science. In the field
of literary art we have his two books,
concerning which I agree with their
author that they are more literary than
objective. Towards the end of his life
he announced that he was going to give
up writing because both writing and life
weie mere futility, but he made a prose
translation of the Odyssey, and was en-
gaged in translating other classics when
he was killed in a motor accident—in
other words, he reverted to the ordinary
occupation of every University graduate
who has been unable to establish him-
self as a literary artist.
Beyond this, what have we? Little
more than that Lawrence was a yearner
whose ambitions were too vast for his
intellectual equipment. The defeated
yearner is often capable of a high de-
gree of self-analysis, but it is invariably
shot through with the Poor Little Me
complex. There was much of the P.L.M.
in Lawrence, in my opinion, and this
would be quite sufficient to account for
his immense popularity, as it accounts
for the popularity of the one role in
which Charlie Chaplin presents himself.
Towards the P.L.Ms. of this world we
can all feci benign arid friendly, since,
unlike the Great Big Mes, the Shaws
and Nietzsches, they deliberately invite
our sympathy. Nothing that Lawrence
said against imperialism was new, but
it was new for an ex-imperialist to de-
nounce himself in public in the lan-
guage of fine literature.
Towards the end of his life Lawrence
developed a passion for speed motoring.
This seems to me very significant. The
devotion of a Sir Malcolm Campbell to
the vocation of rushing from one place
to another at the highest speed possible
is understandable. He believes in his
vocation, and takes the greatest care
that he shall follow it under the best
conditions. When he has reached the
limitations of his capacity he will say
“Thank God, that’s over,” and retire to
his fireside. But Lawrence did not seek
to break records over a carefully-pre-
pared course and in a scientifically-
designed mechanism, but on the public
highroad. Consequently, he did not
advance the cause of speed any more
than he did that of literature, but he
was killed, and when things like that
happen one is apt to say that there was
an unconscious death-wish at the
bottom of it.
1 am prepared for the violent opposi-
tion of the Laurentians, but I would
ask them to tell me what were Law-
rence’s positive achievements that en-
title him to a niche in any one of the
Valhallas. When a man has been called
by the gods to a life of earthly effort,
as undoubtedly was Lawrence, there is
only one thing that makes life worth
living for him: that is, that he has done
something he can vouch for, and that he
believes that he can surpass it. No
artist that believed in himself in that
way ever treated himself with such dis-
respect as to race about on a highroad.
No hopeful individual, however lowly
believes that life is futility.
C. B.
BILLY
ON WAR
A good, lively,
free-hitting 50,000
words of platform
oratory in favor
of Australia im-
proving its
defences and being quick about it is a
fair enough summary of W. M. Hughes’s
Australia and War To-day (Angus and
Robertson ; 65.).
It carries more cliches to the square
inch than any other known recent publi-
cation outside the Parliamentary Debates.
It reminds us of ‘“smoking ruins,” of
people who “speak with their tongues
in theii cheeks, of the “piercing light of
facts.” of “shallow sophistries” (all these
from one paragraph), and of man’s
notable effort sometimes to do better
than his worst; “Although from time to
time his leet have strayed from (he
narrow path which winds up Pisgah’s
precipitous slopes, the moving story of
civilisation speaks eloquently of his slow
but steady progress.”
Nobody, however, will want to find it
a (me example of graceful literary ex-
pression. In forthright statement and the
making of effective argument cliches
have their uses, as no doubt Billy knows
as well as the next mgn. At any rate,
such things have no power to obscure
his statement, which is so plain and to
(he point that the rider of the Melbourne
Cup winner could have taken it in com-
fortably on the way round. He strikes
the theme of it:
When all the world is armed, Aus-
tralia dale not go unarmed. Wc must
be up and doing without a moment’s
delay.
We seek to molest none; to injure none;
wc desiic only to be allowed to develop
our heritage in peace. But wc must be
prepared to defend ourselves from aggres-
sion. For no country is at once more vul-
nerable and more likely to be attacked. In
a world armed to the teeth or feverishly
increasing its armaments Australia’s de-
fences arc at a lower ebb than at any
lime during the last quarter of a century.
As things arc wc have no fleet capable
°f offering an enemy serious resistance; no
air force strong enough to defend us from
aerial or naval attack; no land force that
could protect us from invasion.
Unless we arc to stand like sheep before
the butcher wc must, without delay, create
such defence forces as will make an attack
upon Australia a venture so hazardous
that none will attempt it.
Dismissing completely adequate naval
defence as beyond our purse, he puts his
money on air defence. Briefly, his argu-
ment is that, though as yet there is
no known reliable defence against air
attack, a good air force would be an
effectual weapon against naval attack,
the only kind to which, he believes, we
are really open.
The book begins with a lucid study of
causes of war, among these “the swirl-
ing economic currents, which mock all
efforts to direct their course,” and owing
(o which “the nations are heading for
the cataract.”
The clash of interests, of ideals, of poli-
cies, ol race, is daily becoming more
violent, more irreconcilable.
Next there is a study, extended over
several chapters, of world peace, with
particular reference to the League of
Nations and ourselves. He takes up the
argument expounded by Lord Davis and
others (hat the rule of law rests on force,
but he sees flaws in the scheme, pro-
pounded by these same people, for a
League of Nations with an international
military force at its command; the same
clash and variety of interests which has
made disarmament conferences failures
would interfere also with such a method.
The League is now a moral force: if
it had control of the only armed force
in the world or of the strongest, it would
be de facto the Government of the world.
What kind of Government would it be?
Here we can only speculate. But it would
certainly be different from any Government
we have known or that has ever existed,
flic government of nearly every State is
in the hands ot its nationals: Frenchmen
govern Trance, Germans control Germany.
A Government may have a different policy
Irom its predecessors; but all seek to pro-
mote the well-being of their country;
all have the same historical background.
And the object of all is to advance the
interests ol their own nationals.
Whose interests would the League seek
to advance? Those of the world at large?
Ihe welfare of all mankind would be the
League s objective. But along what lines
would it move? It would take a world
outlook rather than a national outlook.
Now what is a world outlook? The
brotherhood ol man is a doctrine as wide
as Ihe world itself, anti as elusive as a
mirage. What does it involve? How
would it be applied to the almost infinitely
varied circumstances of the nations,of the
world?
bor example, as he asks elsewhere,
•‘arc we to submit our White Australia
policy to the League or to the World
Court and accept (he verdict whatever
it might be.”
His summing up upon (he League is
that it is doing fine work in many direc-
tions, but is still not able to do the very
thing for which it was brought into
existence“lt can neither preserve world
peace nor guarantee our security. As
things are, every nation must provide for
its own security.” Putting his money
straight out on aeroplanes to ensure our
security, he mentions our present total
as 85 machines, with 69 on order for
next year. In his opinion, we need “cer-
tainly not less than 300.”
A. Satchel of Books
Secret Servant, by Bernard Newman
(GolJancz; 7s. 6d.). Loudly labelled
fiction, but reading like fact, an impres-
sion (hat is heightened by the background
of the Paris Peace Conference and the
many famous figures that parade the
pages. It is an excellent espionage yarn
told by a master of the craft.
Everyman’s Library. With it's recent
extension to include modern and copy-
light works this incomparable inexpen-
sive library takes on a new interest
and value. Latest additions are Sir Arthur
Eddington’s The Nature of the. Physical
Wor Id; Conrad’s Lord Jim ; The Golden
Book of Modern English Poetry fa first-
class anthology on traditional lines);
Charles Gore’s The Philosophy of the
Good Life; and that excellent book of
religion and the Church for young
people. The House of Prayer, by Flor-
ence Converse.
Lady Georgy’s House, by Cecily Hal-
lack (Methuen ; 7s. 6d.), is a novel about
a house that had a good influence on
everyone who sojourned there. There
may be such houses; there may even be
such magnificently masculine women as
Lady Georgina Wake, wife of Britain’s
foremost scientific knight; Lady Eliza-
beth Pilwraith. the world’s most accom-
plished organist, and the Lorbinska (indis-
criminately spelt Lobinska), the universe’s
most wonderful dancer. There may even
be such men as Lord Wiloughby, who
combined all the best technical talents
of Kingsford Smith and Malcolm Camp-
bell, was as gentle as a babe and in-
vented, mixed and drank cocktails and
composed sonnets all day long. Also
there may be A1 surgeons who can teach
psychoanalysts their business, like Mr.
Grayll. But the galaxy of aristocratic
talents leaves one wondering why the in-
tellect that conceived it should find it
necessary to endeavor to represent every-
one outside the charmed circle as either
hopelessly illiterate or incurably stupid.
A woman in a railway carriage is made
to say “We live in London. Hayteful
playce.” Extremely intellectual and aris-
tocratic people, apparently, would say
hatfull plyce or hightful piass. One of
the high intelligences refers to the
“Physical” Society as an authority on
ghosts ; the erudite Lord Wiloughby asks
a pianist to play Delius, and the main
topic of conversation of all hands is the
Care of Dogs. Incurably snobbish in
tone, but well-intentioned.
Face Your Lover, by Hubert Nichol-
son (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.), deals
with the love-life (the Americans put
these things concisely) of an artist —the
sort of artist that paints. A critic said
about his work “There is something
powerful in Howard Lunden’s simplicity.
He is not obsessed with the idiom of
modernity, but boldly adapts it to uses
that are at once psychologically expres-
sive and formally appetising.” He leaves
his wife and runs away with a younger
woman, but she does not truly love him
till she bears him a child. Style is im-
pressionistic ; dreams and realities are
inextricably intermingled. There is a
good deal of eroticism of a sort done
immeasurably more effectively long years
ago by writers of more catholic experi-
ence. Naughtiest part of the book is
its wrapper, which depicts a young lady
nude to the waist.
Teak-Wallah, by Reginald Campbell
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s,
17s. 6d.). Pity books like this can’t be
published as cheaply as novels. Most
ot them, like this one, contain no more
leading than a novel of moderate length,
their literary value is no more than that
of the average novel, and their appeal is
to about the same readers. The photo-
graphs, of course, contribute to the cost
ol production, and those in this book
are very interesting, most of them show-
ing the teak-wallah’s elephants at work
among the logs which it was his busi-
ness to get out of the jungles of Northern
Siam. He tells his story of that occupa-
tion in an easy, engaging manner. He
evidently enjoyed it; he is one of those
who prefer to enjoy anything within
reason, rather than feel narked about it:
and, being thus friendly and tolerant,
makes excellent armchair companv.
Crucible, by J. P. McKinney (Angus
and Robertson ; 6s.). This novel, the
prize-winning effort of the R.S.S.I.L.A.
competition, records the reactions of a
refined, if somewhat smug, young man
who is suddenly thrust into the crucible
of war, and his acquisition of broad-
mindedness and tolerance for the weak-
nesses and follies of his fellow-men. The
author has brought keen observation to
bear on various A.I.F. types. What
Digger didn’t know a “Snowey,” able to
scrounge round and dig up strange com-
forts even in the most hopeless-looking
places? There are excellent sketches of
the Digger in billet, camp and on leave,
and the humor is satisfying.


&atkeAid fam the eafitks (yott/i ctfimM....
THE IDOO BEST SHORT STORIES OF All TIME!
PH
: : ■
.
••
Actual size
of each
volume, Sin.
high,
wide, lijln.
thick. The
library is
so compre-
hensive that
it has 16
pages o f
index t o
the stories
and authors.
7 iie
IDEAL
FOR
XMAS
The distinguished British and American authors and critics
who selected the short stories in this wonderful work are:—
Sir William Robertson Nicoll, Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Sir
Edmund Gosse, Mr. Clement K. Shorter, Professor Samtsbury,
Sir Frederick Wedmore, Mr. Thomas Seccombe, Sir J. A.
Hammerton, Mr. Richard Le Gallienne, Professor Brandon
Matthews, Professor W. P. Trent, Professor Carl Van Doren.
HERE ARE SOME OF THE AUTHORS
John Galsworthy
V. li. Ibanez.
uSmm
"Leo Tolstoj
ji ion ore lialzac.
EARLY STORIES
Giovanni Boceaccio
Sir Thomas Malory
Herodotus
Tao Chien, etc., etc.
ITALIAN STORIES
Matteo Bandello
Ortensio Lando
Enrico Castelnuovo
Salvatore Farina
Luigi Capiuma, etc.
FRENCH AND
BELGIAN STORIES
Anatole France
Paul Scarron
Pierre Loti
Jules Lemaitre
Guy de Maupassant
eta, etc.
ENGLISH STORIES
Charles Reade
Anthony Trollope
John Ruskin
Wilkie Collins
Mark Rutherford
George Manville Fenn
William Morris
Thomas Hardy
Ouida
Stanley Weyman
SCOTTISH
STORIES
Tobias Smollett
Sir Walter Scott
“Christopher North”
Andrew Lang
S. 11. Crockett
RUSSIAN STORIES
Count Leo N. Tolstoy
Ivan S. Turgeniev
Maxim Gorky
1 etc., etc.
IRISH AND OVER-
SEAS STORIES
Sir Richard Steele
Laurence Sterne
Olivet Goldsmith
Oscar Wilde
etc., etc.
AMERICAN
STORIES
Washington Irving
Nathaniel Hawthorne
Edgar Allan Poe
Harriet Beecher Stowe
O. Henry, etc., etc.
OLD GERMAN
STORIES
Brothers Grimm
J. C. F. von Schiller
Ludwig Tieck
Theodor W. Storm
E. T. W. Hoffman,
etc., etc.
SPANISH AM)
PORTUGUESE
STORIES
Juan Manuel
Juan Valera
Carmen de Burgos
Vincente Blasco Ibanez
etc., etc.
SCANDINAVIAN
AND DITCH
STORIES
Krederika Bremer
Jens Peter Jacobsen
Hans Christian Andersen
Aron Goldschmidt
Nicholas Beets
Conrad van der Liede,
etc., etc.
WAR STORIES
Edgar Wallace
W. B. Maxwell
Hamilton Fyfe
Max Pemberton
John Buchan
“Sapper”
Alfred Noyes
Alice Hegan Rice
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., OFFER..
BY AN INTERNATIONAL BOARD OF
LITERARY CRITICS. THE MOST COM-
PLETE SET EVER OFFERED .... LOGO
SHORT STORIES SELECTED AFTER
WORLD-WIDE SEARCH FOR THE
GREATEST LITERARY ENTERTAINMENT
YET PRODUCED!
THIS complete home library is unrivalled and
unique. It brings you the very cream of the
writings of 600 gifted authors in many lands.
Nearly 8000 pages of brilliant fiction! Furious
adventure ... romance and dangerous intrigue ...
mystery and realism . . . humor . . . all are here.
There is a complete volume, too, of war stories
. . . told with the most dramatic intensity. The
“Masterpiece Library” unrolls a panorama of
world literature in its most enthralling form . . .
die short story.
ROMANCE OF ALL NATIONS
Explore, with these books, the storied wonder-
lands of Africa, Asia and Europe. Journey on
into romantic Arabia, glamorous Persia, strange,
mysterious countries of China and the Far East,
Gay tales of France . . . passionate romances of
Italy, Spain and Portugal. .. drama of Russia .. .
humor and thrill of America, and clean-cut
adventures in the pages of English, Scotch and
Irish writers ... no matter what your choice,
there’s good reading here. Modern authors are
well represented ... as the brief list alongside
shows
LESS THAN 4d. PER DAY
The full series of 10 double volumes, each in “de luxe”
binding of rich blue Rexine, is yours for 5/- down and
11 monthly payments amounting to less than 4d. per
day. There’s a frontispiece in every book.
In England this presentation series is valued at
£lO/10 /-. We offer it for £5/5/- cash •• • £5/ 1 5/'
by easy monthly payments. Fill in and send the form
below for immediate delivery of the full volumes.
DeUv&iect to ipon/t home
pot a jjiAAt fiaifment op only/'
a
ORDER FORM
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the “MASTERPIECE LIBRARY OF SHORT STORIEST
10 volumes. / enclose the first instalment of 5/-, and agree to make 11 further
monthly payments of 10 The price for cash within JO days is lI-
NAME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS ••• •••■
Freisht is extra, but in no case will it exceed 4j6.
Bulletin, 6/11/ ’35.


GIFT
CASES
>.«• gnP
*NS
m
■
mm.
4t~
—•SES.
tm
sofc£S
SS
iff
s
'K
■■
r -c*
—srm-
‘ «q|
I •■' x' ; *5
w
V .:: ■
:
.
One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S undermentioned branches —
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr. Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
581-587 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2908.
November 6, 1935.
NOVEMBER 11, 1935.
“It’s been a bad season for flowers.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street.
Wellington.
London; T. B Browne. Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. bd •
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and mter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months. 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,'' 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America , 3d. To ail other places , 4d.
THOUGHTS FOR NOVEMBER 11.
A few days hence another Armistice Day will be
commemorated, another anniversary of the end of the
war to end wars. With savage appropriateness it
might be made the occasion for contemplating the
17 years that have passed since the day we celebrate,
and what civilisation has been up to in this time.
The record is one of carnage, massacre, pillage ;
it includes revolution, assassination, anarchy, torture,
incendiarism, disruption, looting, treachery—public
and mass display of every disreputable and dastardly
practice in mankind’s shameful calendar.
It includes, to begin nearest home and with
its major show, 20,000,000 dead in China of war,
banditry, starvation and pestilence, “a record of
infamy unparalleled since the birth of Christ.” Into
this sphere of anarchy, famine, civil war intrude the
Japanese invaders in the north, with, in 1930, their
war launched without the time-losing formality of a
declaration, without diplomatic or other warning
save the obscure explosion of a bomb on a railway
line. “England,” said a Japanese apologist in London,
“alone understood how entirely in her own defence
Japanese action had been taken.” So to-day is the
shambles in Africa described by its makers as a war
of defence.
These might be nice thoughts for November 11.
Or we might think across the seas to the Chaco War
between Paraguay and Bolivia, “a veritable catas-
trophe to civilisation in that part of America,”
dragging out over more than three years, and fought
with all the best modern weapons—aeroplanes,
armored cars, flame-projectors, quick-firing guns,
machine-guns, automatic rifles —supplied by Ameri-
cans and Europeans whose Governments could have
stopped the slaughter by cutting off this shameless
traffic.
In this sphere, too, adding their mite to these
years of grace since 1918, five countries had a revolu-
tion each in one year, 1930-31 ; and Mexico, of
course, retained its reputation for existing in a state
of chronic revolution.
Then, sweeping over the seas again, there is
Russia, with more killings for political' ends in this
period than all other countries put together could
boast of. Not only killings: the hunger queues, the
political conception of herd-life as an ideal and the
record of forced labor fas they had called slavery
there), including a known 250,000 political prisoners
forced to work on the White Sea Canal ; including
also the merciless campaign against the most indus-
trious and progressive farmers, the Kulaks, “a second
civil war in which the enemy had no weapons and no
foreign help,” which ended with en masse deporta-
tions to the labor camps in the frozen north, or, as a
more civilised alternative, the settling of this peasantry
on marsh lands where there was every probability
that it would starve to death. The records of the
Ogpu might bear, thinking on also as more bright
spots in this benign period of civilisation.
Thence our Armistice Day thoughts can move on
to Germany for the mass spectacle of martyrdom,
imprisonment, degradation and torture of Jews and
other chosen victims of racial and political fanaticism ;
summary corrective executions ; public and boasted
travesty of justice—a reign of terror differing impor-
tantly from most others in being, not the work of
herd criminality off the leash, but coldly and calmly
directed in the name of civilised policy, and even
of Christianity.
Yes ; we might spare a thought on November 11
for the Jew-baiters, the floggers, the branders, the
procedure of the Nazi courts, the exiles from the
ghettocs and the universities alike —a thought for the
Germany whose resignation from the League of
Nations has just taken effect. Which is another morsel
for thought in itself.
Then we may consider the record of civilisation
as represented in Italy over this period—the persecu-
tion, imprisonment and exclusion of political offenders,
the sordid torture by oil, the abolition of freedom of
speech and freedom of the press ; such highlights, too
(not overlooking the final crime of Abyssinia), as the
shelling of Corfu —without reference to the League of
Nations —until a demanded indemnity for the murder
of four Italians was paid.
To all this spectacle can be added the 700,000
refugees crowded into starving, freezing Budapest,
until a Rumanian army rooted them out in three
months of pillage, murdering and destroying. Here-
about, too, are Transylvanian villages plundered and
burned, Pressburg and Kassa looted, Bela Kun’s revo-
lutionary tribunals and political executions. Widen
the canvas a little more and there is the assassination
of Dolfuss, and then the assassination of a king.
Alexander, who, for his part, had dismissed his
Parliament and suspended his country's Constitution,
so that he might, in the civilised fashion, rule as a
dictator.
Then there are such things as the French
bombardment of the oldest city in the world, Damas-
cus, even to the Street Called Straight, and, in this
same moment of civilisation made manifest, the
French Senegalese troops set to burn down villages in
which rebels were thought to be hiding. Or there is
Spain, which remained neutral and made a fortune
out of the war to end wars, now itself in a state
bordering on civil war, not to mention its sporadic
revolutions or its loss of a whole army of 20,000 men
in Africa. Thought might be given also to France’s
Riff wars; to the Greek offensive against Turkey,
which, with Lloyd George ready, nearly landed us in
another Dardanelles ; to Pilsudski, in Poland, sending
a body of soldiers into Parliament to remind members
of their limitations ; to the civil war in Afghanistan ;
to the riots between Arabs and Jews in Palestine ; to
Amritsar and the 54,000 persons convicted for "civil
disobedience” in India in a year; and all the rest of
(his vast record of chaos.
No wonder, with these examples of civilisation,
we can contemplate with equanimity the proposal to
starve Italy into desisting from its slaughtering of
Abyssinians, which is the final meaning of economic
sanctions. This is regarded as somehow kinder on our
part, more in accord with the ethics of civilisation,
than outright war would be. Yet in the year following
the armistice that we commemorate 700,000 deaths
due to undernourishment occurred in Germany ; and
the death-rate for children in that same starved
country had doubled itself in 1918.
For all such things we might spare thoughts
during our two-minute silence next Monday morning.
It is a record over which it is especially appropriate
that w 6 should do our thinking with bowed heads.
SAVING THE WHEATGROWER AGAIN.
Commonwealth bounties (“on bushelage and acre-
age”) and various forms of State paternalism having
failed to restore health to the wheat-growing industry,
a new nostrum is to be tried, if the community
consents and the Constitution permits. The
label on the bottle bears the words “a home-
consumption price of 4s. 9d. a bushel, f.a.q. ;
f.o.r. seaboard.” The consent of the community
having been taken for granted, preliminary legislation
has been introduced in the Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales Parliaments. Meanwhile, a Commonwealth
debts-adjustment scheme, “designed to enable farmers
to face the future through the cancellation of a large
portion of the liabilities they have accumulated during
the years of low prices,’*’ is operating in a fashion,
though distribution of its blessings in Victoria has
been delayed by difficulties with the Legislative
Council.
Hitherto, the Commonwealth bounties have been
financed mainly by means of a flour tax. But the
politicians never liked this expedient, and leaders of
wheatgrowers’ organisations objected that it had too
eleemosynary a flavor; besides, it didn’t produce
enough. They demanded, a compulsory pool, with
power to declare a home-consumption price and
enforce it. The usual conference was held at Canberra.
There the Attorney-General informed the zealots that
they could probably get one thing, but it was doubtful
whether they could get the other.
If I were asked to advise the wheatgrowers what
method of getting a home-consumption price was most
worthy of consideration, 1 should not select compul-
sory pooling. From a legal point of view it is the
method least worthy of their consideration, because it
presents most possibilities of legal failure.
One of these possibilities related to the compul-
sory acquisition of wheat by Commonwealth or States.
The Privy Council in the dried-fruits case expressed
such doubt about the power of compulsory acquisition
that no one can regard such a basis as a sound
foundation for a marketing scheme.
Then, if one or two States stood out (South Australia
has never been enthusiastic, and Tasmania, (hough
the gentleman did not say so, might positively refuse
to be “the mug”), the poolers would be up against
Section 99 of the Constitution.
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regu-
lation of trade, commerce or revenue, give preference
to one State or any part thereof over another State
or any part thereof.
Another expression used by Mr. Menzies was
that “all these marketing schemes hang on a feeble
thread.” He was referring to the latest dried-fruits
case, in which James, a South Australian in the trade,
is appealing to the Privy Council against a judgment
of the Full High Court that Section 92 (“Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navi-
gation, shall be absolutely free”) does not bar the
Commonwealth from embarking on what is euphemis-
tically described as “orderly marketing." though it bars
the States. It is suggested that Mr. Menzies should
be sent back to London to argue that the “feeble
thread” was intended by the makers of the Constitu-
tion to be a coarse rope, which —at the caprice of
a Minister or the decree of a board—might be passed
round the citizen’s throat. In any case, Mr. Manning
is booked for London to represent the "Tory Gov-
ernment at Sydney and the “Labor’’ Government at
Brisbane.
Meanwhile, the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales
Governments are going ahead with the home-con-
sumption business as if the constitutional position
were as clear as daylight. "Licensed receivers are
to be appointed by the Commonwealth and “boards'
by the Stale. All wheat for home consumption taken
in by the receivers is to become the property of “the
Commonwealth authority” ; the Commonwealth pro-
poses to borrow against it to finance advances against
the 4s. 9d. a bushel, which may be raised to ss. 6d. ;
the clamor is beginning. Wheat for export may remain
the farmer’s property, but by acceptance of a warrant
he gives an undertaking to deliver wheat to "the
Commonwealth authority” via the receiver at export
parity price. AH grain not consumed locally will be
subject to compulsory export. No farmer may get
the home-consumption price unless he agrees to the
whole plan. In effect, there will be compulsion all
along the line.
It is expected that something like 137,000,000
bushels will be harvested, in which case there will be
about 80,000,000 bushels for export. The politicians
arc sure it can be sold to advantage, and lighthearledly
dismiss all objections made by critics and all warnings
that they may be endangering the flour-export trade,
and incurring the risk of actions for heavy damages
if they lose the Privy Council case. What advantages
their plan has over continuance of the Hour tax it
is difficult for anyone but a politician or a pool
fanatic to sec. The flour tax can at least be
imposed and collected without fracturing the Con-
stitution or setting up a lot more jacks-in-office to
order Australians about. The people hoped for some
relief from it when the price of wheat rose to 3s. IGd.
or so a bushel, but they would rather see it go on
for another year than be delivered into the hands
of more boards and receivers, to be skinned as well
as oppressed. They would be reconciled to it more
readily if the impost were accompanied by the firm,
yet benevolent, removal of thousands of poor devils
who are trying to grow wheat that the world doesn’t
want on farms of proved worthlessness, in the process
leading a dog’s life. This is not only a worse than
useless expenditure of effort, but a sheer waste of
manhood and womanhood. The transfer of these
unfortunate people is necessary to their own happi-
ness, and it has become indispensable to the industry.
But it is the one thing the politicians won’t tackle.
U.S.A. TO M.L. IN 40 HOURS.
The Maoriland Government has accepted from Pan-
American Airways a present of a weekly air service,
“passenger, mail and parcel,” between ’Frisco and
Auckland. Its enemies are saying that fear of having
refusal held against it when it goes to the polls
forced acceptance on it. Even loyal dailies charged
it with tardiness when Pan-American Airways cabled
that it would withdraw its offer (made early in
September) unless an answer were given forthwith.
Mr. Coates’s excuse for the delay was that other
Governments were being consulted. The precise
nature of these discussions has not been disclosed,
but obviously they related to (he position that would
arise should Maoriland give American aircraft the
right to land in the Dominion. The British Govern-
ment, advised of M.L.’s independent action, straight-
way mentioned the words “reciprocal rights,” specify-
ing “the right to use American bases in the Pacific”
for a mooted British flying-boat service to Canada.
All going well, the ’Frisco-Auckland service (“via
Honolulu, Kingman Reef and Pago Pago”) will be
ushered in next July. Actual flying time will be about
40 hours, spread over three days. The Americans
have been authorised to use M.L. territory as a base,
to fly over mandates and dependencies and to con-
struct and operate, subject to approval, hangars,
docks and wireless stations for direction-finding. They
agree that, should the U.S. Government refuse a British
co. similar rights over a similar route, M.L. will be
entitled to cancel their license at 12 months’ notice.
This will be a safeguard against any possible hitch
in any British-American arrangement for a service
such as the Atlantic one proposed by Imperial Air-
ways and Pan-American Airways. In principle it
has been agreed (hat British and American reciprocity
in the use of bases on the alternative winter and
summer routes is essential.
Maoriland had an eye cocked to the possibility
of America using as a bargaining weapon its claim of
ownership of the Jarvis, Baker and Howland islands,
which Britain disputes. These specks arc valuable as
bases, though Canberra, apparently, had never heard
of them until it read about them in the dailies.
Certainly it never thought of asking to whom they
belonged—it left that, as usual, to Whitehall.
The American negotiations with the Forbes
Government were carried out by Harold Gatty, the
Tasmanian-born technical adviser to Pan-American
Airways. Mr. Gatty. passing through Sydney in
August, did not ingratiate himself with Mr. Parkhill
—still trying to decide whether or not to agreg to
the British proposal that mails on the London-Sydney
airline should be carried by flying boats, instead of
aeroplanes, from Darwin —by the remarks he made
about aerial defence and inter-capital air services ;
but Mr. Parkhill is, of course, 100 magnanimous to
cherish resentment. There are plans for the extension
of the England-Australia service to Maoriland. using
four-engined flying-boats, capable ot crossing the
Tasman in 12 hours. Along with the Maoriland-Pan-
American Airways agreement, that will mean delicate
negotiations, and it is to be hoped that all the coun-
tries concerned will be represented by tactful and
capable men. Australians, no less than Maorilanders.
are thrilled at the prospect of being brought so much
closer to their American friends, but they want no
aerial counterpart of the shipping situation in the
Pacific.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sacking of Hughes.
W. M. Hughes has been kicked out of the Cabinet
for the heinous crime of having expressed, not in the
House but in a book, opinions upon sanctions and
war that are shared by at least half his countrymen
but do not happen to coincide with those that have
been arrived at by a bewildered Prime Minister.
His dismissal was a shabby action, shabbily per-
formed. He will have the sympathy of Australia,
which likes a decent deal and will be inclined to
remember his age, his record of service, the paltriness
of the circumstances and the questionable nature of
his offence.
Mr. Hughes’s crime is one sentence on page 95 of
his book Australia and War To-day, asserting that
“economic sanctions are either an empty gesture or
war.” Most people who think at all agree with him.
Mr. J. G. Latham, who was Mr. Lyons’s Attorney-
General, expressed similar opinions before he was
named Chief Justice of the High Court ; so did Mr.
Baldwin when he told the House of Commons six
months before the question of imposing sanctions
arose that “an economic sanction is very difficult to
bring into effect without blockade,” and that
“blockade is an act of war; every country... .which
you blockade will fight you for it.”
Nowhere in his book does Mr. Hughes say that,
holding such views, he is not, in Mr. Lyons’s pet phrase,
with the Government “up to the hilt.” There is no
logical reason why he could not hold such views and
still be the most loyal supporter of the policy the
Government is pursuing. He says that economic sanc-
tions, to be effective, must be enforced, and that to
enforce them will mean war. He does not say that,
for this reason, he cannot support the Government
in enforcing them.
He has, in fact, done nothing whatever incon-
sistent with the policy of the Government. He declined
to air his views in the House, and was not present
during the discussion on Thursday, when Mr. Menzies
moved for leave to introduce the Sanctions Bill; but
he was there to vote for the first reading. There is
nothing in what he has so far said or done to indicate
that he would not continue to support the Govern-
ment throughout.
What he has done is to face very nasty facts and
have the courage to say what they seemed to mean
to him. To Mr. Lyons this same set of facts means
something else. Mr. Lyons insists upon sanctions, and
can see no threat of war. Mr. Hughes does not oppose
sanctions, but can see war ahead. That is the entire
difference between these gentlemen.
It should not be overlooked, either, that Mr.
Hughes’s opinions are contained in a book. A book,
however clumsily written, takes some time to write,
and it sometimes takes longer to publish. Thus the
views in Mr. Hughes’s book were committed to paper
months ago, before the Cabinet he belonged to had
decided upon either its actions or its beliefs regard-
ing sanctions. It reached those beliefs and its present
attitude by the most tortuous processes. It has given
no proof that it really knew where it stood at any
given moment.
Thus, when it was put to Mr. Lyons on October
11: “Is this the actual fact, that, whatever is decided
upon outside Australia, the Government willy-nilly
will be prepared to do?” Mr. Lyons earnestly denied
the charge, declaring that “the Government would
make its decision on the circumstances as they arose.”
Before the end of the month he knew better, and
Mr. Menzies, on his behalf, had to admit that “Aus-
tralia’s freedom to accept or reject the ultimate recom-
mendations of the committee [at Geneva], as far as
they related to economic sanctions, was nominal
rather than real.”
In view of this obvious bewilderment, which has
marked the Government's whole handling of the ques-
tion, the kicking out of Mr. Hughes looks like nothing
as much as a sorry attempt to create an illusion of
firmness where there is none. The case for dismiss-
ing him is that for a Minister to express different
views from those held by other Ministers—not all of
them, either —is “inconsistent with the traditions of
Cabinet government.” In Mr. Hughes’s case that
boils down to this: All members of the Government,
including Mr. .Hughes, are agreed upon imposing
economic sanctions. Most members say this can be
done without war ; Mr. Hughes says it cannot. There
is no difference upon policy: it is merely a difference
of opinion on the possible result of the policy. If this
justifies Mr. Lyons’s treatment of Mr.Hughes,a Cabinet
Minister may be sacked any day for agreeing with
his colleagues that a horse should start in a race,
but advancing the opinion that he will need to be
ridden vigorously to win.
Even if the removal of a Minister were justifiable
on these grounds, there would still remain the method
of removal to chew over. Mr. Lyons’s method was
to send a peremptory telegram and hand a copy to
the newspapers before he had received a reply.
Nothing can justify the false haste and the harshness
of that. It is a wretched example of the sort of crude
effort which all small minds imagine to be courage.
♦
Meat Gees Bad,
Canberra, once vociferous about the successes of
Messrs. Lyons, Gullett and Thorby in the negotiation
of a chilled-meat quota, is strangely silent about the
announcement that Queensland, the crucial State,
cannot produce enough to fulfil the agreement. Put
Mr. Sunners, chairman of the Queensland Meat Board,
says that “the gravity of the position is recognised,”
and that “the shortage may be used against us as an
effective argument when quotas are next discussed.”
It is to be hoped that the politicians will have
learnt their lesson, and will in future leave the trade
to the trade. As Mr. Bulcock, Queensland Min-
ister for Agriculture, remarked, what the London
delegation may have achieved was to put the thought
into the mind of the British authorities that chilled beef
should be only a small proportion of meat admitted,
and that Australia should continue humbly to supply-
frozen beef.
However, the idea has not been firmly implanted
despite all the clumsy propaganda which fertilised it.
And there is a salutary contradiction of political fears
that Britain is “Argentina-minded” in the fact that
Vesteys, the biggest traders in Argentine chilled beef,
turned to Australia the moment a process was invented
which would allow chilled meat to be carried effec-
tively during the long sea voyage from the Common-
wealth.
Recently, they have put a line of eight new ships
—the biggest cargo boats in the Australian trade —
on the Sydney-London run. Each is fitted to carry
5000 tons of chilled beef, apart from other cargo.
It looks as if somebody has no fears about the future
of the Australian meat trade with England, whatever
shortage exists at present.
• ♦
The Heresy of the Young Nats.
Something akin to a revolution in Victorian politics
is suggested by the revised platform of the Young
Nationalists. It actually demands that Parliamentary
practice should be conducted in accordance with
commonsense.
An important recommendation is one which The
Bulletin has advocated for years—the establishment
of a non-party standing committee to handle all non-
contentious bills and knock them into shape before
consideration by the House. At present the non-
contentious measures —which means the measures
which both colors of voters agree to be necessary—are
generally the ones which never pass into law, for the
simple reason that they provide no opportunity for
a fight, and, therefore, no publicity for legislators.
Even more important, but with less chance of
being put into effect for some years, is the pronounce-
ment in favor of a non-party executive. This is an
ideal which seems impossible to most people who
have knowledge of Parliaments and (heir ways ; but
other countries (Sweden, for instance) contrived to
adopt it, and found it to work well. Even in our own
State Parliaments there have been instances in times
of political reshuffling where men have held port-
folios first on one side and (hen on the other. In
Victoria, Messrs. Hogan and Jones have held office
on both sides, not for their politics but for their
administrative ability.
An all-party executive would terminate for ever
the practice of handing out portfolios to duds and
wanglers simply because they say “Hear, hear” in the
right place.
The Young Nats, further ask that there should be
a regular redistribution of electoral areas to conform
to migration of population, with a permanent com-
mission to secure statistics and make recommen-
dations.
The appointment of an advisory economic
council to investigate all prospective legislation deal-
ing with finance, trade and industry, and report its
recommendations, is- another reform which might
have saved many millions had it been in existence in
the past.
Compulsory voting at Legislative Council elec-
tions is a suggestion that does not command much
admiration. Neither does the proposed age limit for.
members of Parliament. It would, of course, depend
on the age fixed. But nobody could say that W. M.
Hughes or Lloyd George was suffering from hardened
political arteries or legislative senile decay. It
depends on the individual.
The Obliterated Minority.
Elected Senators sit for six years. In theory, it is
possible for one voter to control a Senate election in
his State and have three men legislating for him for
six years. In practice, a few thousand voters can
accomplish this, leaving hundreds of thousands who
voted the opposite ticket utterly without representation.
In addition to this army of disfranchised electors
are the young people who have qualified to vote
during the six-year term and the people who have
meanwhile made that particular State their home.
These will certainly be able to vote at the triennial
Senate election following, but, even if they succeed
in returning men of their choice, they will be only
half-represented. If, as has happened more than once,
one party wins two successive elections, the minority,
however important, might as well have been dis-
franchised.
The Prime Minister has again referred hazily to
his earlier promise that the position of the Senate
electoral system would be reviewed ; but he has given
no indication of the lines which will be considered.
Anything short of proportional representation will be
an intrigue. The proportional system as tried in N. S.
Wales was abandoned after the discovery that it
admitted of an Assembly seat being bought with a
billet; but it is the only satisfactory system for Second
Chambers like the Senate. It does give representation
to minorities; as things are, only the majority is
considered. And the majority may win all the seats
without even getting a preponderance of primary
votes.
The question is not a party one. Both sides have
suffered because representation of minorities has been
denied, and the Senate itself has suffered because suc-
cessful candidates have so often been party hacks.
To-day we have the farcical but tragic spectacle of a
Senate almost wholly Ministerialist. In 1914-16 there
was one in which the personnel resembled a Trades
Hall Council. It is not in the interests of the Com-
monwealth or its people that a handful of electors
should be able to stand like the boy on the fulcrum of
the see-saw, and shift the balance only as they wish.
Japan’s Foreign Trade.
At a time when Japanese competition is making
manufacturers in other countries, even the U.S.A.,
tremble, it is queer to find representative Japanese
acknowledging that masses of manufactured goods
marketed at low prices have failed to create more
than the nucleus of a steady export trade. And
without that, according to the Nippon Trade Guide,
1935, “starvation will stare the nation in the face.”
It is all very well to turn out articles good in quality
and low in price, but what is the use of doing it if
other countries fight shy of buying such articles in
order to protect their own industries? Strenuous efforts
must be put forth to produce goods excellent in quality
but high in price. At the same time we must endeavor
to allow as little one-sided trade as possible.
Actually, Japan’s foreign trade is only 3 p.c. of
the world’s total. It is barely one-fourth of Britain’s
and one-third of the U.S.A.’s. On the list of world
commercial Powers Japan is eighth. How to improve
this position in an era of economic nationalism is the
problem.
Two years ago the Tokio Association estimated
that, of a working population of 36,000,000, the
number employed in Japan’s foreign and colonial
trade was between 7,200,000 and 10,800,000.
The greater part of the future increase in working
population can be absorbed if we succeed in enlarging
our trade by 50 p.c. to 100 p.c. within the next 20
years.
Trade has been enlarged, says Mr. Kurusu, the
chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs.
In 1933 export trade showed an increase of 32 p.c.
over that of 1932. In 1934 export trade had an
increase of only 16 p.c. over 1933.
Mr. Kurusu regards these figures as indicative of
a tendency “to return to normal.” And that wouldn’t
do, for
Imports arc swelling enormously, causing a more
adverse balance than ever. In the light of these (acts,
Japan’s position in world commerce warrants no
optimism.
A recent development was the signing of a two-
year trade agreement limiting annual imports of
Japanese cotton and textiles into the Philippines, the
U.S.A. and Japan in effect dividing the market.
Doubtless unpleasant to the Japanese, but they can’t
afford to offend Uncle Sam, who is their best
customer. And even a restrictive agreement is better
than exclusion. The Tokio Association said that
If trade barriers continue to bar the way of Japan's
imports, and no scope is given to our industries lor
expansion, we do not know what will happen.
An echo of this rather despairing note is to be
found in the general protection law passed by the
Diet “as a counter-measure against what foreign
countries have done or intend to do.” But Japan is
in the position that it must trade with certain countries
for raw materials. The gradual westernising of its
cities, which hold almost half the population
(68,194,900), has made this indispensable.
The Dark Australian.
From Doug Nicholls, the Victorian footballer:
Permit me to say how much 1 appreciate the obviously
sympathetic tone used by “G.” (B. !6/10/’35). He admits
our disabilities and the reasonableness of our plea for
something better, though he doubts the practicability. When
everyone is willing to admit the need for reform, the
method by which it is effected will not be a problem.
“G.” refers to our organisation as Victorian. If the
headquarters is in Melbourne, the membership is predomi-
nantly N.S.W.; the executive committee has only N.S.W.
aborigines on it. Moreover, the estimate of the Victorian
aboriginal population is very much out. So far from there
being only 100 in Victoria, there are about that number in
and round about Melbourne, and many times more in the
country. However, these are not matters of moment. One
thing appears to be obvious; if there is to be an organisation
of aboriginals working in the cause of the dark race that
organisation can be only among those who are civilised.
Where are you to get dark folk in that condition unless it
be in the more settled areas of the Commonwealth?
Our organisation has a programme covering the dark
race in every . stage of culture, a programme capable of
uplifting the whole race. But our law does not seem to
contemplate such a thing as a civilised aboriginal.
If he can earn sufficient, the dark man must pay taxes.
If he needs assistance in infirmity or old age, he must go
to some enclosure or reservation, there to receive a ration
designed to meet the need of the primitive man in con-
ditions which are repugnant to the person who has known
liberty.
Why should not the aboriginal be entitled to a pension
in parallel circumstances to the white man or the Australian-
born child of the alien? What does it matter that “Binghi,
who roams the desert west of Hermansburg,” does not know
what money is for? Why should the fact that there are
uncivilised natives debar the civilised person from the rights of
culture any more than the fact that some while men cannot
write their names should debar an intellectual from, shall we
say, ascending the Supreme Court Bench?
Our claim is that the means of sustenance should be
available to every dark person. This would obviously be in
rations for the uncultured, but if the native has' attained
to civilised status his sustenance should be available to him
after the manner of cultured people.
I am not able to see wherein lies the difficulty of legis-
lating for the cultured native, nor, indeed, why the aboriginal
should be debarred deliberately from receiving what even
the child of an alien may receive. Unless it can be shown
to be unreasonable or undesirable for the cultured dark man
to be treated with reasonable fairness, why not give him that
fair deal?
Borrowed Money, of Course.
“G.M” lets fly;
The laying of Victoria’s new cable to Tasmania led
to interest in submarine cables being aroused, and somebody
discovered that a length of cable which had cost £33,000
had been lying in cold storage for 23 years. Money at
five per cent, compound interest doubles itself in 15 years.
As the loan which paid for this cable certainly averaged five
per cent., it is plain that the unwanted article has cost
£82,000 up to date, to which must be added the rent of
the land it has occupied, the wages of the watchman who
has been continuously in attendance and the cost of the
water with which it has been submerged to prevent deteriora-
tion.
If the owner of a frankfort-’n’-roll can were not possessed
of greater commonsense in finance, he would speedily be
frozen out of business. But owners of frankfort-’n’-roll cans
haven’t a public to stand behind them with taxes.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Findy”; When Imperial Chemicals,
Ltd., starts operating its “mining” lease
along the eastern shores of St. Vincent
Gulf it’ll find other things than
salt and limestone —notably a
huge supply of old boots and
rusty kerosene-tins. From St.
Kilda (not to be confused with
Melbourne’s seaside village) to
Point Gawler is the playground
of the tastiest crabs in the
Commonwealth and the happy
hunting-ground of the “toe-
crabbers.” These hardy adven-
turers wade into the shallow water
(it is wadable almost a mile from
the shore) with a kero.-tin, and catch the
crabs by hand. The idea is to grab the
crab before he grabs your toe, and it’s
an exciting pastime both for the hunter
and the quarry. Less strenuous folk wear
old boots and use landing nets, and if
they don't have as much fun they catch
more crabs. Meophytes at the game take
their catch home, but the true toe-crabber
boils his spoil on the beach—the kero.-
tin again—and washes it down with beer.
* s': $
“Scribe”: The other day a young
Vcyclist was run down in Newmarket
(Vic.), and a spectator was so overcome
that he collapsed and the ambulance had
to take both to the hospital. More tragic
was a similar incident which occurred
many years ago in a big Melbourne
office building. One of the tenants
swallowed a dose of cyanide and, dying
imniediately, fell from his chair. The
noise of the fall brought in the occupant
of the next office, who, as soon as he
raised the other to find him dead, expired
from shock himself. Until the post-
mortems, the affair threatened to develop
into a big mystery, for it was regarded as
a double suicide. At the inquest it tran-
spired that the two men were utter
strangers.
“Tired Tim”; Periodically the Com-
monwealth Savings Bank publishes de-
tails of forgotten bank accounts before
the suras are carried forward. The
Queensland list this year is notable for the
number of sporting institutions which
have gone west or otherwise faded out
while entirely solvent. I note that £3B
is due to the Alderley Amateur Athletic
Club, a parcel quite worth collecting. It
is possible that death adders account
for the demise of the Beerwah Sports
Club (£10) and the Beerwah Race Club
(£5); but what caused the abandonment
of £l7 belonging to the St. Agnes Gor-
don Club, of £8 banked by the Humpy-
bong Tennis Club and of £27 in the
account of the Woodford A.A.A.? Many
of the private accounts run to much
larger amounts. Not every man would
forget he had £136 waiting for him, but
one Marquard, of Warwick, has appar-
ently done so.
» * « *
“Grandimarzsh”; Bulletin artist
Johnston was inspired when he illustrated
a wedding group (B. 16/10/’35) and the
sky-pilot saying “Good heavens, 1 nearly
married you to the bridesmaid!” Twelve
days later Australian dailies featured the
story of how a parson in the M.L. back-
blocks was on the point of tying up the
bride to the best man when somebody
interjected loudly “He’s got the wrong
bloke.” Explanations followed, and the
mistake was corrected in time.
* * * *
“Kings Inns”: That defence put up
by the Brisbane youth (B. 30/10/’35)
was not half as ingenious, or ingenuous,
as that of a burglar who came before
the English Judge Bowen. He had
entered a house by the top storey, and
was captured below in the act of sampling
the silver. The defence was that he was
a person of eccentric habits, much
addicted to roof perambulation and
dropping in “promiscuous like” through
open skylights. Summing up, the Judge
said : “If, gentlemen, you think it is likely
that the prisoner -was merely indulging
"Look here, if you want to sunbake in that costume you'll have to come
here at night."
an amiable fancy for midnight exercise
on his neighbor’s roof; if you think it
was kindly consideration which led him
to take off his boots and innocent
curiosity which brought him to the silver
pantry and caused him to borrow the
teapot—then, gentlemen, you will acquit
him.” And they did.
* # * *
"Nikko”: I don’t agree with “Grass-
pan (B. 30/10/’35) that legs are more
beautiful bare than encased in tights.
Legs, except in the very young, are
entirely unbeautiful, and I haven’t
yet seen the barelegged ballet that didn’t
slump mournfully in the extremities.
Also, silken tights pick up the light in a
manner that bare flesh can never do, and
a barelegged ballet on a cold night is
something to set the teeth on edge. No,
tights cover a multitude of sins in shins.
"W.E.F. : At least one attempt was
made to translate “Steele Rudd’s” On
Our Selection into Russian. A British
mining engineer who visited Australia
after he had escaped from the Bolshevik
uprising by way of Vladivostok dropped
into The Bulletin office and told of
the experiment. He had taken over from
an Australian mining engineer who had
left behind a few books by Australian
authors, among them “Steele Rudd’s”
best-seller. The successor read it with
real enjoyment, and, to while away some
of the long winter evenings, translated
the first few chapters into Russian. “I
then tried the result on some of my Rus-
sian colleagues by reading it aloud to
them/’ he told a Bulletin man, “but
the beggars saw nothing funny in it.
Queer chaps, the Russians; absolutely
no sense of humor.”
£ * $ $
"Somnus”: Add hay fever to the list
of complaints about which medicoes are
despairingly vague. 1 am quite aware
that it is a condition akin to nervous
asthma, the symptoms being distressing
recurrent sneezing and stinging eyes.
And I accept the assurances of my
doctor, a practising nurse, three chemists
and sundry knowledgeable acquaintances
that the complaint is peculiar to spring-
time, and is probably caused by the in-
halation of pollen from some tree or
grass. But I can get no information
about a cure. A peculiarity of hay fever
is that a prolonged bout of sneezing in
those subject to the thing is a certain
sign of imminent rain.
“Geneva": According to “Double
Express" (B. 30/10/’35) there arc “no
such things as explosive bullets” used in
warfare. But there must have been once.
At two international conferences (St.
Petersburg in 1868 and Brussels in 1874)
the employment of projectiles causing un-
necessary suffering was discussed. The
St. Petersburg declaration definitely
renounced for the contracting parties in
case of war among themselves “the use
of any projectile of a weight below 400
grammes which is either explosive or
charged with fulminating or inflammable
substances.”
“D.8.K.": "Double Express” is wide
of the mark. In 1917 I was brought into
contact with (his distinctly unpleasant
kind of ammunition as an armorer,
R.N.A.S. Named after the inventor,
Pomeroy, the bullets were alleged to be
safe until the varnish tip was removed
from the nose, after which the slightest
friction was enough to do the trick. Fired
from a Lewis at a framework holding
brown paper, they were plainly effective
immediately after passing through this
"obstruction,” and the result on the linen
fabric of an aeroplane could be realised.
The Pomeroy was dropped in favor of
the common tracer after a popular
squadron-leader had come to an untimely
end through the premature explosion of
a drum of explosive bullets in a Lewis
gun mounted just over his head in a
Nieuport.
"Mid-Sussex'; ‘’Smells are surer than
sounds or sights To make the heart-
strings crack,” wrote Kipling of the
Australian wattle ; and how true it is of
a hundred other scents! Walking down
Market-street, Sydney, I caught the
fragrance of mint from a fruit barrow.
In a twinkling I was back in Sussex,
picking a bunch that I knew the village
butcher would give me a penny for. It
was a standing weekly order.
“Oxmead”; “S. M. Herald,” in an
editorial on Gilbert and Sullivan operas,
admits that there are still a foolish few
who sneer at them—“one member of the
still would-be younger set has put it on
record that he left Oxford owing to the
continued success of the operas there.”
The reference is to Sacheverell Sitwell,
"lyrical poet, born towards 1900 ’ (I like
the feminine touch in that “towards’ ),
who sets himself down as having severed
his connection with Balliol. Oxford’s
most ponderously scholastic college, for
the reason stated. Nor is he the only
Sitwell who brightens up “Who’s Who.
Consider also:
Sitwell, Osbert. poet and novelist.
Educated, during the holidays, from Eton.
....Was pul down for M.C.C. on day ol
birth by W. G. Grace, but has abandoned
all other athletic interests to urge the adop-
tion of new sports, such as Pelota, Kif-K.it
and the Pengo.
Sitwell, Edith, poet and part-editor ot
Art and Letters. In early youth took an
intense dislike to simplicity, morris-danc-
ing, a sense of humor and every kind of
sport except reviewer-baiting, and has con-
tinued these distastes ever since.
Poets all, mark you—perhaps the only
three in one family since the Tennysons.
And all iconoclasts.
sjt Jjt J|: *1«
“S.T.S.”: Fate has given a tragic version
of a joke The Bulletin illustrated for
me long ago. The picture showed a
dried-up and arid plain with a slight
depression : the passing coach-driver says
“That’s where Ihc man was drowned
last week!” So it was with the ford on
a main road near Quoin (S.A.). It runs
after rain, and that is all. I have lunched
in the creek-bed myself. A family party
passed through, but were blocked by a
river a bit higher. They came back just
at the same time as a wall of water
which engulfed the car and its six occu-
pants. A few hours later it was a mere
ford again,
* >l' 111 lie
“G.M.’’: Canberra has proved true to
type in the loquacity of its stipulations to
govern a projected dance at the Hole 1
Kurrajong. More succinct was a Bondi
surf club which held a dance years ago.
There were just two lines at the bottom
of tickets—-“M.Cs.: D. Smith and J.
Thompson.” “D. Smith” was the cham-
pion middleweight and “J. [Soldier]
Thompson” the hero of fifty battles. The
hint had its effect; the undesirable
element decided to stay away that night.
: !' * ♦ *
“Cyclone"; Having been once upon a
time a sort of horse (a racing cyclist), and
moreover having had some experience
of the careful way in which horses, hares,
greyhounds and other fast-moving
animals pick their path, I’m not as sur-
prised as “Equus” (B. 30/10/’35) at the
way horses in the mass keep their hooves
off fallen men or horses. Nothing makes
a more sprawly trap on a
banked racetrack than a
cyclist who has collided
with another and taken
a toss, but time and time
again I've seen a closely
bunched field clear the
obstruction. Like the
horses, the cyclists could
see it coming. Old hands
could rocket off at 30
m.p.h.. and, every sinew
limp, land (back up) with
their hands over their
heads—rat-trap pedals do
more damage to skulls
than to paws—with at least an even
chance of causing or sustaining no
further disaster than a few patches of
grazed skin.
‘■Jack Point”: That Unk White lady
who told her Peke she would love to
take him out but he must stay and pro-
tect the flat (B. 23/10/’35) wasn’t a bit
exaggerated. I was doing a bit of paint-
ing at the home of a lady whose dinner-
table wasn't complete without her cocker
spaniel sitting on a high chair and eating
off a plate. One afternoon she tiptoed
towards me as I was doing the verandah,
Fido being asleep on the Brussels. With-
out the ghost of a smile on her face she
said, before tripping down the steps,
“If Tommy should wake, just tell him 1
won’t be gone Jong.”
“Big Dip”: It is not only in Adelaide
there are defunct giggle-palaces (B.
23/10/’35). Every city in the world pos-
sesses areas of broken asphalt over
which are strewn the remains of gaudy
buildings and decomposing machinery.
The only amusement-parks which have
proved their permanency are Coney
Island and Luna Park (St. Kilda) ; and
they admit the public free. I have found
remains of such places in London,
Paris, Chicago, Los Angeles and San
Francisco. In Australia. Melbourne
started with Prince’s Court, where
Wirth’s building now stands. The first
Luna Park at St. Kilda followed ; both
died young. The latest venture behind
the Melbourne Cricket Ground lived
for only a few months. Sydney had
Wonderland City, at Bondi, and the
White City, behind the Stadium. The
fact is that the giggle-palace has a tem-
porary appeal, and the various side-
shows cost so much that Bert doesn't
take Gert a second time.
NO COLOR LINE.
“There seems to be a demand for colox-ed fighters
in Sydney.”— “Telegraph.”
We stand four-square for whiteness, wc Aus-
tralians ;
We've an antipathy that ne’er abates
To letting any sort of colored aliens
Encroach on our preserves or crash our
gates.
But when they come, in twos or threes or
bunches,
To show their (istic prowess in the ring.
To barter wallops or to trade in punches.
Why, that’s a dill’rent thing.
As immigrants these coons would set us sniff-
ing;
Wc simply wouldn't have them as a gift;
But, none the less, it’s fine to them
biffing
Or (what is somewhat rarer) being biffed.
We’re white Australians —as firm and fast I’m
As you this wholesome thesis to support—
But, still, wc set no racial bar in pastime,
No color line in sport.
We’re white, all white, but in the Stadium
beanos
Where rugged stoushers their opponents seize,
Our troubles if the champs, are Filipinos
Or Senegambians or Caribbccs.
Wc couldn’t bear to think of their remaining
In any steady job about the place,
But, when our lans they’re merely entertaining,
Wc overlook their race.
Provided that a chap can bash and batter,
Or take his gruel till the wipe is skied,
What in the blinking blazes does it matter
About the color of his precious hide?
I here’s nothing in his birthplace you should
pick at.
Whatever neck he hails from in the woods
is quite irrelevant, so long's he’s slick at
Delivering the goods.
We’re whales for White Australia—never doubt
it!
All classes and all sections and all ranks,
Careless of what outsiders think about it.
ft’s like the Monroe Doctrine to the Yanks.
Still, where the milling makes spectators merry
As blows arc rained on plexuses and lugs,
On yellow gladiators we’ve no deny,
No down on nigger pugs.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bybrit”: The letter-carrier applied
for a new beat. The postmaster pointed
out that the department required some
very strong reason for transferring an
employee from a round he was
thoroughly familiar with to what would
be new ground. Could he furnish such
a reason? The postman was diffident at
first, but finally he blurted it out: “A
month ago my girl turned me down, and
it's a bit tough to ask me to carry her
letters to the other bloke.” Officialdom
being only human, he got his change.
* * *
“Ike Hollar”: At the last
Sydney Eisteddfod one of the
judges made some unkind re-
marks about the reciters. Now
a minor eisteddfod, anxious for
a big entry, is carefully an-
nouncing that the harsh critic is
not to act as judge at its con-
tests. A musician whose judg-
ing at a band tourney also
caused a storm admits to having
had a worse experience in Eng-
land. At Roseneath (Cornwall)
he gave a decision against the
local band. An agitated secre-
tary came to him and urged in-
stant flight. When the band-
master demurred he was taken
to the nearest window and
shown a number of sturdy
Cornish miners, armed with
pick-handles, patrolling the
street. “They’re waiting for
you,” whispered the sec. The
musical expert consented to be
smuggled out of a back door,
but even the railway official
who got him into a reserved
compartment showed feeling.
“A man ought to ploog you
one,” he grumbled, “but I’ve
gotter do my duty to the com-
pany.” The fugitive never went
back to Roseneath.
* * *
“Baroona”: In the recent press discus-
sion about Count Strzelecki, the ex-
plorer and namer of Kosciusko, no one
seems to have recalled that Henry Kings-
ley drew a very likeable portrait of him
as the doctor in Geoffrey Hamlyn.
Kingsley gives full prominence to the
scene at Baroona when the doctor tells
his friends that he has discovered gold
and shows them the specimens. 1 have
also seen it stated that the explorer was
the original of Count Smorltork in
Pickwick, but this seems improbable.
Pickwick was published in 1837, when
it is doubtful if Dickens had ever heard
of Strzelecki. The Polish count did not
reach Australia until 1838; Kosciusko
was named by him in 1839.
* * * *
“Gun-runner”: One result of the
Italo-Ethiop dispute is an enormous in-
crease in the export of Belgian pianos
to Addis Ababa. Hundreds of cases
from Antwerp are reported to be pass-
ing through the Canal. Naturally, they
all contain rifles and machine-guns, with
their ammunition, just as they did in the
old days at Lourenfo Marques when the
Portuguese Customs used to bung them
through by the hundred. Their contents
were mostly V.-M. pompoms then, in
spite of the representations to Britain of
Mike Remington and other British
agents in Pretoria and Jo’burg before
the Boers attacked Britain.
* # * ♦
“El V.”: I didn’t “ridicule aerial
bombing attacks in massed formation,”
as “Pont Noyelles” (B. 30/10/’35) sug-
gests. I have a great respect for bombs,
but even in 1917 1 don’t think that five
planes flying at 500 ft. in no formation
at an equal altitude, without a leader
and each in such relation to the other
that they couldn’t have seen him if they
had had one and couldn’t turn at
speed without fouling, would have got
away. More especially as the artist who
drew the assault on Adowa made them
fighters unequipped for bombing and
manned them in such a way that they
had no defence against a following
enemy. Anyway, air bombing has yet to
prove itself. In Britain scores of Ger-
man raids accounted for only a few
thousand casualties, though the raiders
operated over big cities. In the end they
had to give London best because of
the losses they suffered. In the latest
British naval trials, warships came off on
top, and in the latest U.S.A. ones an
obsolete battleship was still there when
the flying marines had finished with it,
though the conditions were a good deal
easier for the airmen than those of actual
war.
# * * *
”S.K.”: At least one branch of medi-
cine has gone back a couple of thousand
years for a remedy. Cables mention
that the use of leeches for relieving
blood-pressure and certain internal in-
flammations is returning to favor. The
annelids were used for bleeding in
ancient Rome, as Cicero, Horace, Pliny
and others freely testify. Leech-breeding
was once quite a remunerative occupa-
tion. and may come again as a back-
yard industry in this country.
* >K
“Nordbo”: The paragraph about
Henry .Stokes, the gentlemanly Mel-
bourne two-up school proprietor (B.
9/ JO/’35), strengthens my belief that the
commendable qualities of such people
frequently contribute to their own un-
doing, One whom I knew —he ran a
“By the way, Mary, my husband is leaving us for a few days”
“Very Well, mum. I'll tell the butcher .”
game in Ayr (N.Q.) a few years ago-
had the reputation of being straight as a
die, and could always be depended upon
to bail his customers out promptly alter
a raid. The kindly habit settled his
career. The police had made a big haul
one night, and 10 minutes afterwards he
was at the station bailing them out at
£3 a head until his money was ex-
hausted ; then, jumping into his brand-
new car, he made for the nearest garage
and sold it for £25 cash to finish the job.
He earns his livelihood at wharf-lump-
ing now. Another of the biggest two-up
heads in the Cairns (N.Q.) district (with
branches all over the North) can also be
depended upon to bail out his clients.
But he works along safer lines, in all
his schools a fixed charge of 9d. for
every 4s. of winnings .goes into the bail-
ing-out fund.
s**=!■
“Wendover”; Even in the U.K.
hunger-striking was known long before
Irish patriots were gaoled (B. 23/10/’35).
There is a reference to it in Evelyn’s
diary (1656). Describing a visit to
Quakers in prison at Ipswich he records:
“One of these was said to have fasted
20 days ; but another, endeavoring to do
the like, perished on the tenth, when he
would have eaten but could not.”
Forcible feeding is not the only method
of combating this form of contumacy.
A hunger-strike by two Hungarian
anarchists was once broken by keeping a
stew boiling outside their cells for two
days.
* a * s
“Babiaan”; Can’t see why the cut-
ting off of the Abyssinian baboon supply
fB. 24/10/’35) should put an end to
Voronoff operations in Australia. To
the eye there is no difference between
the Abyssinian beast and his brother of
the South African kopjes; I have seen
the two living together in zoos. I shall
be pleased to put disconsolate Voronoff
operators in Australia in touch with a
farming friend of mine in the Transkei
(South Africa) who will supply them with
a shipload of baboons f.o.b. if they pay
the freight to this country.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Cocos Island is an
isolated place with few mail facilities,
but thanks to the R.M.S. Orama and a
kindly skipper 1 have just received a
letter from there written only 10 days
before. This occasional method of com-
munication is the “tin-can” mail. The
liner had rattled her wireless to say that
she would swing in next day and drop
the cablemen a cask of fresh food. She
would also trail a log line and would
pick up a tin of mail should the Cocos-
ites have one ready. Letters were hur-
riedly written that evening and placed
in a watertight tin. After dropping the
cask, the finer slowed down, a little
yacht raced across her wake, picked up
the fine and made the tin of letters fast,
It’s a break for the passengers to call on
Cocos, the only land sighted between
Colombo and Fremantle, but it is a
keener joy for the exiled cablemen, es-
pecially towards the end of the quarter,
when fresh meal and vegetables come
like a gift from the gods.
** w * *
“Poplar”: A new type of Labor leader
seems to be edging to the front in
Britain. Sir Stafford Cripps, K.C. and
baron's son, was tipped by many as
Lansbury’s probable successor and a
Prime Minister in the making, if only
because his views and speeches were
more advanced and provocative than
those of the most militant trade-union-
ist. Cripps, however, like Lansbury,
found himself out of step with the party
over the sanctions business, and his
chance has gone, for the present, any-
how. Lord Ponsonby, the old Etonian
who was once Page of Honor to Queen
Victoria and who has held high office in
Labor Ministries, has faded out, along
with and for the same reason as Lans-
bury and Cripps. But Major Attlee, the
new party leader, is a public-school
product (Haileybury), an Oxford gradu-
ate and a barrister. He served as an
officer on Gallipoli. He has been Mayor
of Stepney and has sat in the Commons
for 13 years as M.P. for Limehouse —
where Lloyd George once made a speech
that led to the name of the borough
being playfully adopted as a synonym
for turbulent invective.
* * * *
“Desert Column”: “Boorara” (B.
30/10/’35) slips a bit when he says
Colonel Todd, of the 10th L.H., entered
Damascus and “captured the city.”
General Wilson’s Third L.H. brigade was
ordered to get on the other side of
Damascus and block the Barada Gorge,
through which the last coherent unit of
the Turkish army was attempting to
escape to Homs and Aleppo. Time was
the essence of the contract, and Wilson
took the daring step of leading his
brigade right through the city, whicli
was crammed with Turks. With the Tentf
leading, the brigade passed through un
molested, save for thousands of yellim
welcomers, the Turkish troops looking or
hopelessly and never lifting a finger. Ths
official report says Wilson’s only troubh
was to find someone to understand that
he wanted to get out of the city on the
other side as soon as possible, and there
is no mention of any powwow at the
Serai. A guide was found and the Gorge
occupied, with lamentable results to the
Turks, who were congratulating them-
selves on a clear getaway.
H*
“Galra”: The secrecy of the post
office! The mail had arrived at our
country office, and the usual crowd was
waiting at the counter while the sorting
went on. Suddenly one of the sorters
paused with a letter in his hand. “Good
Lord!” he exclaimed to the assistant
next him in a voice that was audible
yards away, “Bessie’s writing to Alec
again!” “Well, that let’s you out,” re-
turned the other. “I’ll wring his neck
if I get the chance,” commented the first
as he put the letter in the right pigeon-
hole.
* * « *
“Attaboy”; American year-books and
similar publications specialise in all sorts
of intimate family details about the
various occupants of the White House —
their ancestry, the full Christian names of
their wives, the exact number of their
sons and daughters, and so on. Prob-
ably few Australians could tell you off-
hand, or even after mature deliberation,
how many children Toby Barton or Andy
Fisher had, but the fierce light that beats
upon U.S. Presidents preserves all such
things in black-and-white. In the matter
of prpgeny (he only President with the
distinction of double figures was W. H.
Harrison (1841). Of 31 Presidents only
one (Buchanan) was a bachelor; four
(Tyler, Fillmore, B. Harrison and Wood-
row Wilson) were married twice. Four
only were childless. The ancestry tables
suggest a lot of research. Eighteen Presi-
dents arc scheduled as having come of
English stock ; two were of Scotch and
six of Scotch-Irish lineage ; Jefferson had
Welsh forebears, the ancestors of Van
Buren and the two Roosevelts came from
Holland, and Hoover is of Swiss descent.
* >]t ;Jt $
“J.G.”: Does anyone know a bigger
man-made hole than the one alongside
Victoria-street, Brunswick (Vic.),
which marks the activities of
the Hoffman Pottery Co.?
Although 1 have never had time
to run the rule over it 1 would
say that the excavation is nearly
half a mile long, about 10
chains wide and 200 ft. deep. All
sorts of pottery- and brick-clays
have been dug out of it ; many
of the older buildings in Mel-
bourne and suburbs are built of
brick material there obtained ;
it must have yielded thousands
of tons of gravel and blue-
metal rock. 1 leave it to some
figure crank to work out how
many cubic yards of stuff it
would take to till up the hole.
* ' * >l! .‘I!
“Rozzer”: Not only are the helmets of
the Victorian police of an objectionable
shininess (B. 30/10/’35), but their ridi-
culous shape, a cross between a chimney-
pot hat and an Afghan cap, is an added
grievance to the wearers. The helmet of
the London bobby is well-shaped and
covered with seemly blue cloth. It fits
well down on the head, and is hard to
dislodge, while as a safeguard against
attacks by bottle-wielders and other dis-
orderlies it has no equal. It has always
been a surprise to me that General
Blarney did not scrap the preposterous
helmets as a preliminary step to reform
when he took command of the Victorian
John Hops.
* * * *
“Exdig”: So many men had their reason
badly shaken in war-time that merely
feigning madness was one of the expedi-
ents adopted for getting out of the
line. It generally worked, too. One mal-
ingerer suffered spasms of delusion
about the camp being attacked, and
rushed about in a berserk fashion
hurling bombs. Some method in his
madness might have been suspected
from the way the bombs fell (without
hurting anyone) near the C.O.’s and
M.O.’s quarters; but as not even
clink cured him he was regarded
as too great a danger to keep. An-
other was more subtle. The M.O.
having turned him down, he put
up a “mad stunt” in the orderly
room. “Stop that, man!” said the C.O.
sharply. “It’s all pretence. YouTe no
more mad than I am.” The malingerer
spread his own version of the words
through the camp. “Fancy us having to
go into the line in command of a man
who admits he is as balmy as I am!”
was the burden of his song. The C. 0.,
getting a constant echo of that remark
and finding it impossible to “crime” a
man who kept up his pose of lunacy,
gave in, and “Loony” went back to a safe
camp hospital job in England where his
sanity was never questioned.
A KALL TO ARMS.
I'm wearing a Styleoform collar
And one of those Nevashp bows,
And, since I’m a bit of a scholar.
Some Dubblevue specs, on my nose.
I'm a mould of sartorial splendor
In one of those Kustomkut suits;
I'm using the Fitzu suspender
And likewise some Eezilast boots.
My wife has a youthful complexion,
For KleenitotT keeps it aright,
And she gives it the added protection
Of Butykreem, morning and night.
She goes through her duties diurnal
In a Figgaform model of mauve,
And feeds me with frequent Weclkernel
Prepared on a Trubbleprufe stove.
Our boy on his Kiddijoy scooter
Can hear my approach from afar
By the sound of my Dulcetone hooter
As fixed to my Acrobilt car.
I spray the mosquitoes with Killo
Each night before going to rest.
My head on a Slumbaway pillow.
A Sleepeezi sheet o’er my chest.
Uncouth as the ways of the Vandals.
Grotesque as the tongue of the Kurds
Are these weird and preposterous handles,
These wild, illegitimate words.
There’s not an excuse they can stand on.
Let’s fling the whole lot to the flames!
I vote it is tyme to abandon
The kraze for these komical names.
N.S.W.
ABIE.


<; 'Uv
A
Cool to your tongue
Kind to uour throat
20 for m
10/„r9 d
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
EE
TIPPED. CIGARETTE
•4
.
THIS GENERA TlO N
POLITICAL POINTS
Hughes is out of the Ministry—dis-
missed by Lyons. Though he supported
the first reading of the Sanctions Bill his
published views on sanctions (shared by
millions of Australians and Britons)
were voted embarrassing by Lyons and
Parkhill ; so from Canberra on Friday
the Prime Minister sent a telegram “ask-
ing for his resignation.” Without wait-
ing for a reply, the sender told the re-
porters all about it when he stepped off
the Melbourne express on Saturday. The
thing was shabbily done ; and it shows
the sorry pass to which Australian poli-
tics have drifted when a Lyons can thus
treat a Hughes.
When the Sanctions Bill was introduced
members were notified that it would be
treated as an urgent measure, and must
be put through the House by Tuesday
evening. Urgent it was declared in
proper form, but when Tuesday came it
found both Houses adjourned for the
Cup. As “S. M. Herald” puts it, “There
had been repeated Ministerial statements
that the House would sit on Cup Day,”
but the Government decided that the
urgent measure could wait and the Cup
couldn’t. So much for urgency—and
dignity,
Maoriland’s Sanctions Bill was intro-
duced on October 23 and passed the
same day. There was no opposition:
“Labor’s passion for peace makes it
necessary for us to support collective
action,” said Savage, the leader. Unlike
the Commonwealth’s measure, M.L.’s
bill has no specific reference to the Italo-
Abyssinian dispute, is in general form,
and is capable of application by Order-
in-Council.
With the increasing difficulty of financ-
ing purchases, Italian imports from Aus-
tralia, now to be “sanctioned” out of
existence, fell from £4,600,000 in 1933-34
to £995,800 last year. The value of
wheat imported was only £3120. In
1930-31 it amounted to £1,717,500.
Chiefly because of North American
attempts to make European consumer-
countries pay through the nose for wheat
the Italians began growing the substance
themselves, and Australia has suffered in
consequence.
As a dog returns to its vomit, so does
the Stevens Government when the loan
market smiles on it return to its one
prescription for slump and unemploy-
ment —“sewerage schemes.” It proudly
announces that it will have 61 on hand
presently—6o in the country and a grand
new £3,000,000 p.a. “scheme” for Syd-
ney. Some enemy has suggested a motto
for it:
Per ordure ad astra.
As an indication of “the slovenly way
in which these Acts are drawn up,”
Latham, C.J., told the Melb. Legal Con-
vention that the S.A. Legislature once
passed a measure based on one in opera-
tion in Britain. In if appeared the sec-
tion “This Act shall not apply to Scot-
land,” which was embodied with the
rest in the S.A. Act. “I always thought,”
the C.J. added, “that this was a very
generous gesture on the part of South
Austr^liß
Heffron, M.L.A., who was N.S.W.
secretary of the Marine Stewards, to
Bruxner, the Minister of Transport:
Will the Minister explain why the Com-
missioner for Railways, Mr. Hartigan, is
returning to Australia in an American ship,
when Government-subsidised American
ships are in death-grips with British and
Australian ships?
The Minister did not explain, but there
was no necessity, Mr. Hartigan is merely
promoting a transport monopoly and
spending public money at his own sweet
will—in short, running true to form.
While the Senate was sanctioning the
shovelling-out of excessive grants to the
States demanding them, Pearce was
asked whether he could suggest any
solution of the problem. His reply was
characteristic;
Possibly there is a solution, but the
discussion of it would not be germane to
the bill before us.
Nothing that Pearce ever says is ger-
mane to the solution of any problem.
Whatever may be thought of Ramsay
MacDonald’s politics, there is no argu-
ing against his courage. Old, nearly
blind and almost worn out, he has re-
fused all offers of soft seats and is con-
testing Seaham again. It means facing
angry meetings of rough-tongued
Durham miners, many of them embit-
tered, not only by what they consider
their member’s apostasy but by years
of compulsory idleness; nevertheless,
Rammac has never flinched. Australia
has known younger ex-Labor leaders
who, in less trying circumstances, pre-
ferred to bolt.
The N.S.W. Full Court has decided
that the Lang-Stevens Milk Board is
not the Crown, and may be sued. Justice
Stephen had already given the same de-
DROPPING THE EX-PILOT.
cision, so the other party’s costs will be
substantial and the public will have to
pay them. Still, it won’t greatly mind,
seeing, for one thing, that the Crown
cannot now be dragged in as a shield for
charging an extortionate price for a
necessary commodity, of which there are
superabundant supplies, and condemning
numbers of the King’s young subjects to
malnutrition.
In 4\ years, it is written, gold worth
over £3,500,000 Australian has been
taken out of the big mine at Wiluna
(W.A.). Five years ago, before it had
crushed a ton, the Commonwealth helped
the co, to raise £350,000 at 7 p.c. by
guaranteeing principal and interest. The
co. was in no situation to refuse a quid
pro quo, such as an annual share in the
output for the national-debt sinking fund.
None was asked for.
Vic. Premier Dunstan is standing pat
on his decision to sell the site of Mel-
bourne Hospital in place of allotting it
to complete the cultural group of which
the adjoining Public Library, Art Gal-
lery, Museum and Technical School are
parts. He overlooks the fact that the
hospital buildings would have to be sac-
rificed by the sale, whereas it is possible
to remodel them for the suggested
scheme. They do not harmonise archi-
tecturally with the library building, but
any able architect could design a new
facade.
“To give N.S.W. more good roads,”
the Stevens Government intends in-
creasing the subsidies to local bodies,
which will now get £2 for each £ spent
by them on main roads, and £3 per £ on
trunk roads. That's all very well, but
how much will be required for a new
army of inspectors to prevent owners of
commercial vehicles using the “more
good roads”?
One danger to peace lies in a possible
election victory for British Labor, which
wants to ginger-up sanctions (“sanctions,
involving all the possibility of war”). It
is reassuring to learn that Communist
leaders are advising their regimented
battalions to vote Labor. Their mani-
festo is not quite as useful to Baldwin
as a Zinoviev letter, but it will help.
If the Commonwealth Government
won’t accept Forgan Smith as Austra-
lian delegate to the international sugar
conference in London, his own Cabinet
will send him, “on the ground that
Queensland, as a sovereign State within
the Empire, has the right to direct repre-
sentation.” It may have that right, but
it is no “sovereign Stale within the
Empire” ; moreover, Forgan Smith as* a
Commonwealth delegate “representing”
Victoria’s beet-sugar industry would be
a bad joke. In any case he is employed
by the people to lead the Government in
Queensland, not to act as delegate in
London for any sectional interest, how-
ever important.
Gus Kelly, the Labor M.L.A. for
Bathurst, put in a good word the other
day for Vic. Railway Commissioner
Clapp.
He has adopted a policy of decentrali-
sation which has proved beneficial to Vic-
toria ; and no one can say the Victorian
railway service is not conducted on first-
class lines.
On the other hand, centralisation is so
rampant in the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment that “in five years the families of
135 railwaymen have been removed
from Bathurst, where only absolutely
essential running repairs are now done.”
“In 12 months,” Tully smartly added,
“over 100 families have been transferred
from Goulburn” (Tally’s electorate) “to
Sydney. Yet this Government claims to
be country-minded, and the Minister of
Transport is the leader of the Country
party! ”
Ex-Premier Argyle, of Victoria, re-
turned from Britain, repeated the old
story of faulty packing. It brought forth
the old denials, and a “You’re another!”
turmoil is in progress. The explanation is
probably that both parties are right. One
bad pack is sufficient to jeopardise the
reputation of a hundred perfect ones.
The tale of that bad pack travels, and
has the effect of reducing the prices
honestly due to people who carry out
their work efficiently, and who ought to
be protected by rigid inspection at this
end, with penal provisions against
offenders.
It takes something to shock Dunning-
ham, the N.S.W. Minister of Labor, who
was a bookmaker, but he says he was
shocked at the things he saw in Russia —
ill-clad and ill-nourished people employed
under “a most vicious system of piece-
work.”
The standard of living was lower than
in any other country 1 visited.
Apropos, the Red Government, “amidst
widespread rejoicings,” is now “making
grants of land in perpetuity, so that
peasants on collective farms may own
the soil they till.” So the great collec-
tive-farm experiment has crashed, too.
Untaught by its experience in the
recent strike, the Seamen’s Union held
up the Niagara, only to see her move out
of Port Jackson manned by a crew in
which there were many fed-up unionists.
Even this spectacle did not deter the mili-
tants from proposing a hold-up of the
Aorangi, though warned again that con-
summation of the mad prank might mean
the permanent exclusion’ of Australians
from both vessels, capricious hold-ups
(the pretext was a trumpery wharf dispute
at Vancouver) being too great a handi-
cap to the owners in their struggle with
U.S. competition. This time the mili-
tants were outvoted and a union crew
was supplied. It is a belated assertion
of commonsense on the part of the
majority, but the l seamen sorely need
lea /ership such as the late Bob Guthrie
gave them.
For no understandable reason except
that petty tyranny is now fashionable,
the N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s depart-
ment has been prohibiting public meet-
ings in Sydney. Its latest ban, notified
“after all arrangements had been made.”
was imposed on Sunday-night meetings
of the Rationalist Association, which has
been “holding meetings regularly for 23
years.” The Post Office, for its part,
has been prohibiting the broadcasts of
a B-station speaker on the ground that
they were objectionable to Parkhill, and
has refused registration to a publication
entitled “War —What For?” “because it
was deemed to have been issued by an
unlawful association” which has not been
lawfully pronounced unlawful. This
country requires a new birth of freedom.
The idea of seizing something by
force is always lurking in the pacifist .
mind. Attlee, who has succeeded Lans-
bury (even he talks of “socialising indus-
try within 24 hours”), threatens that, “if
Labor gains power, the first thing that
it will invade will be the Temple of the
Golden Calf in Threadneedle-streef.”
Presumably the invaders would refashion
the Bank of England into an institution
in which balances and Government
liabilities would be as immediately collec-
tible as N.S.W. Government Savings Bank
depositors discovered them to be in 1931,
and in which advances would be made
with the same prudence as they were in
Westralia’s Agricultural Bank—at least
till it suffered some trifling embarrass-
ments and was placed under a commis-
sion with a Labor politician at its head.


'/
Three secomds umoer,
the TRACK RECORD u
'' >
ITS A STRICT SECRET.
Mind you dont tell
ANYONE *
Daddy Says Dobbin
CANT LOSE .
Bur mums the word."
</ , S 3 ,
I GOT IT FROM THE OWNERS. DAUGHTER,
STRICTLY CQKItripEMTIM, . Of? COURSE''
" . '
its money from home
But keep it under voor hat "
ff
Straight crom
Horses mquth /
Gorgeous, But
You oom't WEED
Tt>
\T ' v
//
Between you and me and the
Gccte-post
THE DEAD CERTAINTY.


c
o
%
a
Runs Lis
Elec
mg,seven-valve Radio
on for Vs u/eek
Above is extract of a letter from
an R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following;
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH. —Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEEAJSLAAJO BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEY BR»SQA>*E
Vl
~7 / U<xt -to- rvu4€^f-
ZMe. B.V.or^S.
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B V.D CO. INC., NEW YORK.
fOH
MAOt
IRM«
RtlMt
6tS'
• UNDERWEAR
'.r
c
H
I
N
E
MADE IN P
AUSTRALIA y
p-rzouvp*
Representotives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
PERSONAL ITEMS
J. P. Moffatt, the new American
Consul-General, depicted here by Frith,
was for four years chief of the division
of western European affairs in the
Department of State at Washington. He
has been 16 years in the foreign service
Uncle Sam's Ambassador.
of his country, and has been stationed
in Poland, Japan, Turkey and Switzer-
land. His wife is the daughter of the
American ambassador in Tokio.
Admiral David Murray Anderson,
who is to succeed Sir A. Hore-Ruthven
as N.S.W. Governor, comes of a family
which has been sending soldiers to India
for a century and a half. His father
joined the army in 1838, fought in the
North-West Frontier campaign of ’53
with that choice company of Bayards
which included Nicholson and Roberts,
and ended his active career as governor
of Sandhurst, in a career of 40
years, the new Governor served on
every British station except the S.
Pacific, and fitted in one or two land
wars —Ashanti among them —for good
measure. His last command was South
Africa, and during part of his term there
he was Acting-High Commissioner. For
a time he was the Admiralty representa-
tive on the League of Nations’ Advisory
Commission, after which he was sent to
Newfoundland in 1933, and when the
Constitution of the bankrupt island was
suspended that year he was given extra-
ordinary powers as head of the adminis-
trative commission. Newfoundland has
been a favorite jumping off place for
Australian Governors—Sir William Mac-
Gregor went direct from there to Queens-
land, and Sir Walter Davidson was at St.
Johns for several years before he came
to N.S.W. to spend his last days.
“Jo”: The Reaper has claimed Edwin
J. Shaw, Brisbane’s last Town Clerk
before the Greater Brisbane scheme
began to operate in 1925. He never fully
recovered from a motor-bus accident in
Sydney early this year. He was a humor-
ous, precise little man who spent almost
his whole life in the old Town Hall,
where everybody was expected to be the
essence of old-world punctilio and
exactitude.
Percivale Liesching, who is coming to
Australia to run the secretariat of the
British High Commissioner's office in
Canberra, is ‘‘Oxford,” as are most of
his colleagues—a “8.N.C.” (Brasenose)
man like Reginald Heber. He served in
Europe and East Africa in the war, and
made his mark with the Dominions
Office during the preparations for the
drafting of the Westminster Statute. He
has already been Political Secretary to
the H.C. offices in Ottawa and S’Africa.
Newton Moore has succeeded the late
John Waddington as chairman of the
Great Boulder board. Moore is the
luckiest of all Anglo-Australians. Without
eloquence, personal charm or any more
than middling parts, he was a Cabinet
Minister in Westralia at 35, Premier at
36, Agent-General at 41, G.O.C. A.I.F. in
Britain at 45, Major-General at 47 and,
on the strength of being “a leader of our
gallant Anzacs” (he was never in a light),
M.P. for a safe Tory seat at 48. Except
for a brief strategic retirement when the
Baldwinites were about to be beaten in
1924, he has been in the Commons
for 17 years. He is enormously fat and
enormously rich, and in the art of falling
on a soft place has no superior,
“El V.” outlines a candidate’s pedi-
gree:—
H. B. Turner, the youngest of the aspirants
for the Gordon (N.S.W.) scat, is descended
from that Dixon, employee of Watt, who came
to Sydney in 1813, whose steam engine was the
lirst in Australia, and who was the virtual
founder of Australian manufacturing. Dixon’s
mills and other enterprises were grouped on
Darling Harbor, and his front gate was near
where the Sydney Trades Hall now stands. In
the eighteen-twenties they were the industrial
centre of the continent—as well known as
B.H.P. He returned to England in the ’forties,
leaving sons and daughters in Australia.
Turner took his B.A. at Sydney in 1927, then
went to Cambridge, where he graduated in
law with honors, and was called to the Bar,
afterwards travelling extensively. He practises
in Equity.
Albert Joseph, the new president of
the N.S.W. Country Press Association,
pictured here by
Lahm, is manag-
ing director of the
“D ai 1 y Leader.”
Tamworth, and
secretary of Assp-
c iat e d Northern
Dailies five
dailies published in
New England.
Born at Gympie
(Q.) on Nov. 9,
1873, he was in
the survey branch
of the N.S.W.
Lands Department
before entering the
newspaper world
in 1909. He has
represented the
country press on
all com p u Isory
conferences under
State and Federal
jurisdiction since
the inauguration of
arbitration, and is
a keen Rotarian
and a bowls en-
thusiast. His elder
brother, A.E., is
secretary and
manager of the
Queensland Coun-
try Press Association.
The one man in Sydney with a per-
sonal association with the first Melbourne
Cup is Walter Bradbury, who was a
hundred years old a few days before this
year’s Cup was won. He rode Archer,
the winner of the first Cup, in training
gallops.
The Fourth Estate—Country Version.
It has been a bad year for Concilia-
tion Commissioners. First Coneybeer,
of the Commonwealth Commission,
resigned after a nervous breakdown.
Now Henwood, one of Mick Con-
nington’s old pupils and friends, who
had sat on the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission, has been picked up dead
beside a railway line. He was, in his
day, one of the best-known men in the
Sydney Trades Hall.
“J.R.D.” on his old brigadier:
The tail, lean Lord Mottislone, who made
a strong anti-Abyssinian speech, is not the
milk-and-water pacifist that may be inferred
from the cables. He was Secretary for War
in 1912-14, and as Brig.-Gen. J. B. Seely
he gained the warm admiration of the many
Australians who came in contact with him.
A fine horseman, he commanded the Ist
Canadian Cavalry Brigade, which included the
2nd King Edward’s Horse, a cosmopolitan regi-
ment in which Australia was well represented,
and in 1918, when the brigade became wholly
Canadian, its work under Seely in stemming
the German advance formed one of the finest
cavalry epics of the Western Front. He has
published three books, mainly autobiographi-
cal, and gives interesting impressions of a
visit to Australia and M.L. 40 years ago. In
1915, when his brigade, then dismounted, was
in the line at Ncuve Eglise, “J. 8.” came down
one morning after stand-to. His staff-captain,
Archibald Sinclair, got mislaid somewhere be-
tween the supports and the front line, and
Seely pulled up near a dugout and raised his
rich, fruity voice in a call for “Archiba-ald!’’
After the third fruitless appeal, the weary,
fed-up voice of an Aussie rose from the dug-
out: “For God’s sake, somebody find him his
Archibald and let us get some blanky sleep!”
Seely enjoyed the joke as much as any of us.
The characteristic beard and twinkling
eyes of A. F. Ellis, M.L. Phosphate
Commissioner, now in Australia, are well
known in the mid-Pacific. He was one
of the discoverers of the Nauru deposits,
and has been one of the controlling com-
mittee since the mandate operated.
To him is due largely the happy posi-
tion of the Nauru native, who is one of
the most prosperous islanders south of
the Equator. Ellis writes well—his recent
book on his domain, written with humor
and an evident love of nature, has done
much to put the phosphate islands on
the map.
Senator C. F. (“Fighting Charlie”) Cox
is one of Australia’s tallest major-
generals and the
kindliest of men.
He fought in
S'Africa, c o m-
manding the 3rd
Imperial Mounted
Rifles, at Gallipoli
and in command of
the Ist Brigade
L.H. in Palestine.
He has a long
string of decora-
tions, and is much
plagued by the
habit of the daily
new s p a pers of
every now and
then unofficially
knighting him. His
first trip to Eng-
land was more ex-
citing than the one
from which he has
just returned —he
went over in
charge of the de-
tachment which
represented N. S.
Wales at Queen
Victoria’s jubilee in
1897—and one of
his best tales is of
how the little Queen
inspected his hun-
dred—a magnificent body of men. Paus-
ing in front of a tall Illawarran, she
asked: “And where do you come from,
my man?” “Toolijooa, mum,” responded
the T.I. proudly. “And where is that?”
asked her Majesty. “Next to Gerringong,
mum,” said the soldier.
“Realm”; Now in his eightieth year,
J. L. Reilly, veteran chairman-secretary
of Melbourne's “down-lhe-line” racing
clubs, can make the unique claim that
he has seen every Melbourne Cup run.
He saw Archer score in 1861. As sur-
veyor, Reilly laid out the Caulfield race-
course and the race-tracks at Men-
tone. Oakleigh, Ascot and Mordialloc.
He invented a starting-barrier in 1893
and had it installed at Oakleigh. As
an owner, he raced the jumper Cuffs
when it won the Australian Steeplechase
at Caulfield in 1918.
J. M. Niall, vice-chairman of the V.R.C.,
got his first lift when, after some pastoral
experience, he became Rockhampton
manager of Goldsbrough Morts. Trans-
ferred to head office, his strong per-
J. M. NIALL, vice-chairman of the
V.R.C.
sonality and fine presence soon earned
him promotion, and in a few years he
was g.m. This year he retired from the
job in favor of his son Ken, who had an
unusual university training for the man-
agership of a big wool business —he is
a bachelor of engineering.
“Kell”: Dead in Brisbane at 74, Rev.
Henry Gainford had completed 50 years
in the Congregational Church. He was
the son of Thomas Gainford, who
owned a mill at Duck Creek, Parramatta,
in 1854; he left there to erect a mill in
the Richmond River (N.S.W.) district.
The buildings ready, Thomas went to Syd-
ney and took the machinery back with
him in a schooner, the Frolic ; she was
wrecked at Ballina, but the owner and his
wife and two sons were rescued. Thomas
became a Methodist lay preacher, and
worked among the cedar-getters, return-
ing to Sydney to build the Mariners’
Church in George-street. He was minis-
ter at Woollahra and at Newcastle
(1860-67), and at Newcastle the son who
became the Rev. Henry was born in
1861, to become the incumbent of lead-
ing churches in Adelaide, Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.
“E.M.” admires an Ambassador:
George Russell Clerk, who is doing Britain’s
straight talking in Paris, is the right man in
the right place. Nobody knows either men
or Near Eastern politics better. He is the
typical slender Eton-Oxford Foreign Office
man, whose first big job was as secretary
to the mission which announced the acces-
sion of Edward VII to other crowned heads,
and his stories of that colorful embassy have
a flavor all their own. Clerk represented
Britain at Addis Ababa for seven years, and
has a peculiarly weak spot for the place as the
home of his adventurous diplomatic youth.
Then he went to Constantinople, and stayed
there till the war, returning seven years after the
Peace Conference, to which he was a special
delegate, as Ambassador with the triumph
behind him of having established British in-
fluence in Middle Europe against a barrage
of Continental intrigue. His six years there
smoothed out the asperities which arose from
the incidents of 1922, and his firmness and
commonsense made Britain once more a domi-
nant force in Angora. Polished to his finger-
tips, and a splendid linguist, he is worth half
a dozen untrained politicians in Continental
negotiation. He has been Britain’s senior
European Ambassador since last year.


Uliaktiut Cf than ail
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
mm
■
The "Red Terror” in a typical
finish, ridden by Jimmy Pike.
How Phar Lap, the incomparable, took the
1930 Melbourne Cup and £200,000 in Wagers
Fielders will never forget Melbourne Cup
Day, 1930, when Phar Lap, the greatest horse
to grace the Australian turf, literally walked
away with the greatest race in the Common-
wealth, causing a panic in the ring which was
relieved of more than £200,000 In doubles
and straight-out wagers.
Think of the records that toppled that event-
ful afternoon. He not only created a weight-
carrying record, 9-12, but by starting at 11/8
on, has the distinction of being the shortest
priced favourite in the history of the
race and the only horse to be vic-
torious in the Stakes and Cups'
Double since the famous Carbine.
Always handy to the leaders throughout, Pike
let him go at the turn and revelling in the
heavy going he bowled past the judge with
3 lengths to spare.
Bought for a paltry 160 guineas, the "Red
Terror" became a world idol, his brilliance
placing him at the top of the list among Aus-
tralian stake winners with the grand total of
£70,121 (including Agua Caliente Handi-
cap).
Mr. Sam Whitehead, a farmer at Greta (Vic.),
drew Phar Lap in a £20,000 consulta-
tion and was offered £6,000 by a
syndicate, but his faith in the cham-
pion was too strong.
k
10 to 1 M a
♦ -
:v *.
fpccU MILD. MEDIUM «■ FULL
(CORK-TIPPED OR PLAIN)
9294-IC-E
k


Insure with tine
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422*24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which (he acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors - .
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
.1. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 481 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVL PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold. Gold Ores. Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates. Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates.
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold. Silver or Copper
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine. Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.— Linotype, Stereotype. Monotype and other Printers' Metals
to Standard Formula? or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney.. Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Cos. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends
June, Profit. All Shares. Off. Reserves
£££ £ "
1925.. 542,109 10 p.c. = 210,209 148,530 142,240
Charged to Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1926.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247 047
1927.. 544,007 12 „ „ 312.000 150,145 829,509
Charged to Development, £1369 .. 328,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,462 384,420
1929.. 513,660 12 ~ ~ 312,000 138,828 447,252
Charged to Development, £lß4l .. 445,411
1930.. 428,150 12 p.c. - 312,000 137,532 424,035
1931.. 158,239 4 „ „ 104,000 142,708 335,507
Charged to Development, £4l .. 335,460
1932.. 234,903 4 p.c. = 00,0001151,000 359,309
1933.. 373,095 8 ~ ~ 120,0001151,371 461,093
1934.. 350,161 10 „ „ 240,0001117,010 454,238
1935.. 402,950 8* „ „ 104,000 148,008 545,180
* 4 p.c. on ords. 1 Pref. div. only.
The £2,600,000 of share capital is in
1,500,000 prefs. and 1,100,000 ords. The
prefs, carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and
advance with the ords. beyond that rate.
For the five years to the close of
accounts in 1930 an all-round 12 p.c. was
paid; then came dislocation of the
markets and the collapse of prices, and
payments to the prefs. got behind for a
while. But the co. has been able to
replace business lost in Europe by in-
creased sales in Australia, Japan and
India, and, as costs and prices were
brought more into line, net earnings re-
sponded. The prefs.’ slate was cleaned
in 1934, and the ords., which faded out
of the picture in ’3l, got back again with
4 p.c. for the last term. Another pay-
ment at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a. has been
made since the close of accounts, and,
if the price of spelter remains around
its present level (£l6 7s. 6d. last weekr-
end), prospects of a bit better than 5 p.c.
are encouraging.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the average spot price of
spelter in London (£l2 16s. 7d.) was
£2 15s. sd. a ton lighter, lead (£ll 65.)
was down 10s. 7d., and. silver (2s. 3.9 and.)
was up 7.3 and. an ounce. The spring in
earnings was due to increased produc-
tion and sales. Plant capacity at Risdon
was stepped up 30 p.c. in March, raising
it to 70,000 tons of zinc per annum;
slump called a halt in completion of
these extensions nearly six years ago.
Here is a comparison of production
figures:
Cad- Cop-
/unc. Silver, Lead, mium, per,
mo- Tom, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 108 256
1930.. 54,150 009,800 5466 218 179
1931.. 55,282 708,000 5091 235 127
1932.. 53,085 367,000 2915 153 106
1933.. 53,951 221,000 2223 109 79
1934.. 53,464 197,800 2024 166 85
1935.. 58,889 207,400 1983 175 97
The co. now sells over half its output of
zinc locally as against about 40 p.c. two
years ago, thanks mainly to increased
activity in the galvanising industry and the
call for zinc in cyaniding auriferous ores.
There was a drop of 2575 tons in the
output of superphosphate (20,543 tons—
demand was affected by seasonal condi-
tions), and the related production of sul-
phuric acid (69,059 tons) fell away by
2067 tons, too.
In the introductory table, net additions
to the reserve for depreciation, etc. (now
£l,9sB,osl), are included with profits and
then shown as written off. Excluding
these additions, but including minor re-
serve adjustments, the year’s net result
was £21,803 better at £254,948, equal to
9.8 p.c. on total capital.
Finances are comfortable:
T- , , 1931. 1934. 1935.
lie Dentures and interest £404,033 £401,697 £401,697
Sundry creditors .. 274,082 202,262 138,140
Deposits and interest.. 240,835 15,917 87,354
Overdraft .. .. 37,563 35,680 8,460
Mt. Read-Rosebery mines 449,783 455,140 457 5-M
Properties, plant, eta.. 3,654,539 3,730,397 3,787,542
Rook debts . . . . 238,804 184,012 161,315
|“ al ‘ea 226.179 223,189 246.733
* to ? ks 444,088 328,369 868,869
Cash, etc 281,694 639,987 775,407
The year’s net addition to plant was
£57,145, stocks were up £40,500 and cash,
etc., £135,420. The outside debt, which
was more than covered by cash, etc.,
alone, was reduced by £19,905 net.
Thus iar the co. has had no return
from its large expenditure on mines and
plant on the West Coast. If the present
rate of production is maintained, the
co. s stock of calcines will be exhausted
in about 12 months. After that it will
be necessary to revert to the original
rate of production, or to begin mining
and milling at Rosebery, where every-
thing is ready for a start. Much will
depend upon the course of metal prices.
At 335. 6d. the ords. return approxi-
mately 3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for a shade over 4'.
p.c. on his money counts on an 8 pc
distribution. The prefs. at 375. 6d. return
4.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Profit. Dividends. serves, servos.
•£ £ £
iS:: «;?« ,SSg},**** •«»«
Provident fund, £IOOO ) 10 > 34 5 69,328
Perkins’s business absorbed: added
reserves, £20,000 . . 8!) 328*
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 ) BU ’^“ B
Provident fund, £ISOO j' 108,187*
1930.. 09,834 10 p.c. = 02,341 ) .
Provident fund, £ISOO ( .>,993 114,180*
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. = 49,958 /
Provident fund, £IOOO f 8,049 122,229*
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932.. 62,242 Bdc = 000 )
Provident fund, £2ooo’ j 10,242 100,371
1933.. 71,575 8 p.c. = 50,000 ), or -r-
Provident fund. £3OOO f 18,57 u 118,946
1934.. 69,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 1
Provident fund, £2500 \ 10,755 135,701
1935.. 83.539 8 p.c. = 57,115) „„
Provident fund, £2500 j 23,924 159,625
’Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
This co. and the Queensland Brewery
supply most of the beer consumed in
the northern State. There is no price-
cutting in the trade ; competition mostly
takes the form of buying up hotel prop-
erties, thus widening and anchoring turn-
over, which is also affected by the size
of payrolls and the state of trade gener-
ally.
During the last term £262,387 net was
added to the book value of hotel free-
holds, making the total addition £505,696
over the last half-dozen years:
1927. 1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £372,694 £622,425 £625,000 £781,250
Inabilities . . 69,361 116,386 164,199 251,984
Brewery, plant,
etc. . . 159,029 310,370 ) „„„ „„
Warehouse .. 23,580 32,188 ) 324,671 329,732
Hotels .. 151,095 208,474 511,783 774,170
Stocks . . 66,516 108.257 65,756 74,244
Debtors .. 107,269 148,903 62,954 64,710
Cash, eta .. 8,429 11,303 13,151 13,715
Shareholders welcomed the opportunity
to put up an extra £156,250 of capital
at par ; £57,285 was added to the amount
corning to secured creditors (£195,994)
and £30,500 to the floating debt (£55,989.
including an unspecified amount for con-
tingencies). The larger trading added
only £1756 to debtors’ balances, £B4BB
to stocks, and £5061 to plant, etc. Stocks,
book debts and cash totalled £152,669,
which nearly three times covered the
floating debt.
Including £3OOO struck off the book
value of intangibles (now £23,100), and
after setting aside an extra £11,970 for
depreciation (£18,742) and an additional
£SOOO for taxation (£30,000), the declared
net result was £14,284 better at 11.7 p.c.
on average capital as against 11, 11.4, 9.9,
9.4, 11.1 and 13.4 p.c. back to 1929. The
new properties appear to be a very profit-
able lot, thanks partly to the continued
growth of employment. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c., and it may remain there
for a while, the declared intention being
to strengthen the prop for capital.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
bought the whole of the remaining assets
(excluding cash) of Perkins and Cos. for
£197,000, or £47,000-odd less than their
book value at the end of February. These
assets consist mainly of 11 hotel freeholds
(four in Brisbane, the rest mostly at
Ipswich and Toowoomba), 14 leasehold
houses and the old Mary-street, Brisbane,
brewery premises. The freeholds
appeared in Perkins’s books at the
written-down figure of £221,436 at the
end of February.
The market prices the fully-paid 12s.
6d. shares at 235. 9d. The return at that
figure is 4.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
with the possibility of anew share issue
on favorable terms. At the end of July,
the net tangible cover was 15s. per share.
“Truth” and “Sportsman/’ Ltd.
, —Dividends ,
, Prvf.
June, Profit, it p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
79,460
1920*. 20,045 4010 l2* p.e. =15,938 73,875
Added prelim, exes,, £2227 .. .. 75,002
1927.. 40,210 0750 404 12 \ p.c. = 21,250 03,850
Added prelim, exes., £9O .. .. 03,940
1928.. 41,140 7510 0985 12j p.c. =22,770 59,571
Establishment exes., £9400 .. .. 09,037
1929.. 33.272 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 72,705
Added establishment account, £lOBl .. 73,840
1930.. 20,298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10.000 74,548
1931.. 27,421 9000 8000 5 „ „ 10,000 74,127
Transferred coiftingoncy res., £1500.. 75,027
1932.. 26,945 7481 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275 0500 GJ „ „ 13,000 09,098
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 03,640
Unexplained addition, £13,019 .. 50,027
1934.. 42,400 9000 8000 10 p.c.■= 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 2'0,000 43,400
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47,460
*Nine months. Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act from October 1, 1931.
The board reports further increases in
advertising and circulation revenue, and
shows a trifle more profit. The figures
for the last two years are numerically the
best since the co. took over the business
from John Norton’s trustees in 1925.
Early in the piece shareholders put up
£155,000 of fresh capital, raising the
total to £400,000, its present figure, in
200,000 9 p.c. first prefs., a like number
of 8 p.c. seconds and 200,000 ords. The
new money was used to modernise the
plant, buy freeholds and put up new
premises in Sydney.
For the first three years the ords. got
p.c. Then slump and other difficul-
ties brought the rate down to 5 p.c., and
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act
slashed p.c. off the prefs.’ contract
rates, leaving them the right to advance
with the ords. from their reduced to the
original rates. Thanks to the improve-
ment in conditions generally and the
board’s work in repairing and stiffening
the organisation, the ords. have had 10
p.c. and the prefs. their full 9 p.c. and
8 p.c. respectively for the last two years.
There is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that these rates are likely to
be interfered with during the current
term. After paying the pref. divs.,
enough remained last year to show 12.8
p.c. on ord. capital as against 12.7, 8,
6.4, 5.2, 4.6, 8.1, 15 and 19.4 p.c. back
to 1927. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £4OOO set aside for special deprecia-
tion in ’34 and ’35.
Over the last 12 months the market
has shortened its bid for the firsts from
345. to 315., and for the seconds from
31s. 3d. to 275. 6d. The drop is due
mainly to the hardening of interest rates.
At the lower figures the return is 5.8 p.c.
in each case. The net tangible cover is
£3 10s. 6d. firsts and £2 10s. 6d. seconds.
The ords., covered by 15s, 3d. in net
tangibles, are not listed.
Balance-sheet movements compare as
follows:
1920. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Pref. capital.'. £75,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Old. capital.. 170,007 200,000 200,000 200,000
Mortgage .. 42,740 34,494 37,670
Other liabilities 14,320 41,191 13,209 09,914
Freeholds, etc. 41,507 108,845 170,917 232,007
Plant, etc. . . 85,367 170,397 148,415 151,758
Investments .. 7,500 5,001 1,003
Stocks . . 25,507 22,398 19,717 25,249
Debtors .. 35,527 54,485 30,667 49,907
Cash, etc. . . 22,723 4,408 57,370 35,603
To finance the purchase of more free-
hold (up £61,090), add £3343 to plant
and £5532 to stocks and carry an extra
leant upon sundry creditors for a further
£56,705, tacked £3176 on to the mort-
gage and drew upon cash for £21,767.
The contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£4778) was £66,874, due to the
outlay on fixed assets.
Permanent Trustee Cos. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 14,558 8 p.c. - 8,800 5758 25,857
1920.. 16,572 9 .. 9,900 5072 31,529
1927.. 10,338 9 ~ ~ 9,900 0438 37,902
1928. . 18,080 9 ~ 9,900 3780 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 ,; ~ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 ~ ~ 1 1,000 4441 50,730
1981.. 11,075 7 ~ ~ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,108 0 ~ 0,000 2508 57,273
1933.. 5.,712 0 .. ~ 0,000 2112 59,385
1034.. 8,902 0 ~ 0,000 2302 61,747
1985.. 9,109 0 ~ ~ 0,000 2509 04,250
Shareholders got a steady 10 p.c. for 15
years to the close of accounts in 1919.
Then £50,000 was transferred from re-
serves to capital, and another shilling
per share was called, raising paid capital
to £IIO,OOO (its present figure) in 200,000
£5 shares paid to 1 Is. After that the
div. dropped to 6 p.c. (= 11 p.c. on
cash-paid capital), from which point it
climbed to 10 p.c. again in ’29 and ’3O,
and then, following the big break in the
markets and the fall in interest rates, etc.,
it slipped back to 6 p.c., and has re-
mained steady for the last four years.
Earnings, however, are on the up-grade
again, and prospects of a lift in the div.
are encouraging, thanks to the recovery
in real estate, improvement in the letting
of properties, both business and residen-
tial, and in the collection of rents and
mortgage interest. The business keeps
on expanding, too:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,508 24,948 15,089 02.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930. . 15,975,572 01,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 10,777,007 01,944 49,009 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,045 54,603 45,350 82.9 ~
1984.. 19,048,805 54,142 44,580 82.3 ~
1935.. 19,013,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
Last year’s net growth in the volume of
trusts on the books was £564,162, com-
pared with £898,220 for the previous
term. After striking the usual £6OO off
the book value of premises, the net
result was a trifle better at 8.2 p.c. on
capital as against 8.1, 7.9, 8.3, 10.6, 14
and 14.1 p.c. back to 1929.
The market prices the scrip at 17s. 6d.
as against 16s. 9d. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 3.1 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for 4.4 p.c. on his money counts on a
7 p.c. distribution. The cover is 17s. sd.
in net tangibles.
At Sept. 30 the co.’s own funds, to-
gether with £6831 coming to creditors,
were invested in freeholds, etc., £57,321 ;
Government securities and mortgages,
£109,854; debtors, £337 ; cash, £17,477.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


The World’s Master Tyre
Since the introduction of the Cord Tyre,
the tendency in tyre construction has been
to build greater tread life into tyres —but
in order that the casings should be able
to outlast the longest wearing tread a
corresponding development in casing
design and construction was necessary.
Weftlcss Cord Construction, introduced to
Australia by Dunlop Pcrdriau, is the com-
plete answer to longer casing life and
casings produced by this new method will
definitely outlast the longest wearing
tread
Weftless Cord is not sales propaganda but
the solution to the inherent weakness of
ordinary tyres . . . early casing failure while
thousands of miles still remain in the tread.
This inherent weakness of ordinary tyres is
due to destructive cross wefts which rub
and generate friction and heat. These cross
wefts are entirely absent in Weftless
Cord Construction.
The introduction of Weftless Cord tc
Australia by Dunlop Perdriau represents
the addition of further equipment to what
was already the largest plant in the Southern
Hemisphere, and is evidence of our faith
in this far-reaching development, a faith
amply justified by practice in England and
America and by the phenomenal mileages
recorded by thousands of Weftless Cord
Tyres now on Australian roads.
Weftless Cord Tyres by Dunlop will out-
wear and outlast all other tyres because no
other Australian made tyres use Weftless
Cord.
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER
COMPANY LIMITED, AUSTRALIA
n
i
/ fj* "T '
r
*
A Battery of Disc-Doubling
Machines at the Dunlop Cotton
Mills, Rochdale (Eng,). The
Inset shows a close-up of
one of these machines, the
operator’s fingers having been
inserted between the individual
cords to show the manner m
which they are fed
into the Disc-
Doubler. It is pos-
sible, with this
machine, to impart a
higher degree ( >1
twist to the cord
than by any oilier
known process.
3
sts
*
0
Si? i.m
sf
-4
*v^4w
Sfl*
*
Above : The
Creel Room.
The Cord is
i m ported
from the
Dunlop Mills
in England to
Australia in
the form of
large spools
as illustrated
3,500 of these
spools, each
containing 6
miles of cord,
comprises the
installation.
a
I
' '
Z.e//: Indi-
vidual cords
being fed into
the Calender
—the drums
in the fore-
ground arc
steam heated
to drive all
moisture from
the cords be-
fore impreg-
nation with
rubber.
Risht\ A General view of the
Calender. These machines are
the largest operating in the
Southern Hemisphere, being
over too tons each.
*9
$
:
k
Instruments on the Calender
controlling the weight and
thickness of rubber.
YOUR CAR IS NOT MODERN UNLESS EQUIPPED WITH WeFTLESS CORD TYRES BY DUNLOP
D-7a


1
N
■'%
A
-Mi
V'
Four brothers of Aldenham (Herts )
Spent their days singing dirges in perts,
Till they took to Schweppes Tonics
And dropped their harmonics
For the wholesome diversion of derts.
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- ci(rtA tjVU
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.H.T.: See B. 18/9/’35... .F.S.T.: Hold.
....Townsville: Yes; see B. 30/10/*35
G.T.E.: Mt. Morgan Developments, Ltd., 117
Pitt-street, Sydney; Gold Mines of Australia.
360 Collins-street, Melbourne; Alluvial Gold,
Melbourne Buildings, Canberra Dangie:
(1) It is a new concern that has yet to prove
itself. (2) Morris Hedstrom, Walter Reid
and Were’s Investment Trust are worth con-
sideration... .O.A.S.: See B. 30/10/ 35....
W.H.B.: All depends upon the terms upon
which the business was taken over. The co.
claims that assets are worth more than book
value... A.E.R.: (1) Difference in assay value
of ore and rise in price of metals explains
widening gap in market quotes. (2) Yes
T.B.B.: Co. has been test-boring Macquarie
alluvials for some time; cannot say what de-
cision, if any, has been' arrived at.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 4S:S
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors oi L. B. Davies.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALAS’IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surreys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS. B Sc. (late
Director State Forest Sen-ice, hew Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
° * * * *
Hvdraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hvdraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
vnecialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes oi
jifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STVYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Vustralia 1 For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you —William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.
Aerated Bread Cos. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Net Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary serves, serves.
1924.. 5,428 646 Nil 4782 2,550
1925.. 10,163 646 5 p.c. = 1225 8292 10,818
1926.. 4,989 646 io „ „ 2450 1893 12,741
Reserves capitalised, £10,500 .. 2,241
1927.. 9,218 646 10 p.c. = 2975 5597 7,838
1928.. 8,365 646 10 „ „ 3500 4219 12,057
1929.. 8,044 646 12} „ „ 4376 3022 15,079
'inne 046 9 ” ” 3159 2991 18,0,0
i93i’.. i.oss 646 Nil 16,339
1932. . 1,28. Nil - 14,732
Profit. (ll.6 p.c.)
1933.. 3,083 752 Nil 2331 17,063
Written off plant, £15,000 .. .. 2,063
(7.75 p.c.)
1986” 3,995 6°oi S “ 1100 \ll\ 4.738
Sydney is eating this little catering co.
out of its troubles again. The business
went downhill for a dozen years after
reconstruction in 1910. Then £10,856 of
the debt was funded, £6OOO-odd of 10 p.c.
pref. capital was gathered, and for the six
years to the end of March, 1930, share-
holders averaged 9.4 p.c., and the
£10,500 (6s. per share) of ord. capital
that went down the sink in 1918 was
restored. After that the ords. experienced
another three years’ drought; slump and
competition dried up earnings.
Takings, however, are on the up-grade
again. Including £323 sent to the depre-
ciation reserve (£2000), last year’s net
result (up £113) was enough to pay an
all-round 9.6 p.c. The prefs. got their
7i p.c. (10 p.c, lexs statutory cut), and
the ord. div. was kept at 6 p.c., leaving
£1394 for reserves (£4738, including de-
predation reserve)
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
j ow 1
,927. ,932. ,93.. »85.
Paid capital .. C4i,465 £4t,465£4i,46G£41,405
Other liabilities .. 25,378 20,168 19,802 18,570
Freehold fe 10n5..™. 1 44,365 46.829 46,829 4«,829
stock .. .. 4,551 j 32,832 17,170 11,1,0
Book debts .. 4,777 2,205 1,180 1,320
Investments and cash 110 498 057 505
_ . , ,
During the year £2374 was chipped oft
t^1 1 e j overdraft (£13,93..), while £ll4_ was
added to the amount coming to other
creditors. Book debts were up £l4O, and
cash, etc., was down £152. The position
will look better when the debt can be
further reduced. Premises were un-
changed at £46,829. Much depends upon
whether expenditure out of earnings
on replacements and renewals proves to
be adequate.
The market notes the thin support for
capital and the keenness of competition,
and prices the pound ords. around 18s.
as against 16s. a year ago. At 18s. the
return is 6.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Sellers ask 245. for the prefs. At this
price they return 6.4 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 225. Bd.
ords., all in fixed assets, worth what they
can earn, and £7 2s. lid. prefs.
The new agreement with the unions at
Broken Hill puts mine laborers there on
a better footing than anywhere else. For
40 hours a week on the surface and 35
underground (no Saturday work) the
minimum is £4 10s., or 18s. a shift. On
the average price of the metal for
October, the lead bonus adds another
3s. 6d. a shift (sixpence for every £1 a
ton above £ls Australian) to the
laborer’s fee, making it 21s. 6d. a day,
with two weeks’ holiday on full pay
annually thrown in. The pay slides up
to about £8 a week for the more highly-
skilled trades, with from two to four
pounds a week more for contract miners.
The increases will put about £1 a ton
on to the production cost of lead. That’s
all right on the present market price,
but if the pendulum swings back to last
year’s figure the new rates will hit hard.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Mines Department
has installed anew ore treatment plant
to test prospectors’ samples up to a
ton in weight. The processes will em-
brace fine and coarse grinding, amalga-
mation, concentration, cyanidalion, flota-
tion, etc. The idea is to determine (he
most efficient method of treating what-
ever ore may be under test.
* * * *
After several unsuccessful applications
to the Vic. Government for assistance,
the directors of South Australian Oil
Corp., which has been operating at Lakes
Entrance, has decided to put up the
shutters. An attempt to reconstruct the
co. is to be made after the Petroleum
Bill has been dealt with by Parliament.
* * * *
To test the capacity of its mill, Aber-
foyle Tin, near Avoca (Tas.), put through
752 tons of ore in a week for 16 tons
of ftrst concentrates and 16| tons of
seconds. The co. had been treating over
100 tons a week less than that. It has
been decided to drive a second adit,
about 3000 ft. in length, from 100 ft. south
of the main shaft, at an estimated cost
of £20,000, spread over 24 years. The
management figures that there is about
seven years’ work ahead of the mill. For
the year to June 30 last the co. paid divs.
totalling 20 p.c.; the interim for the next
quarter was at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
Mount Rex Tin, formed in Melbourne
to work the old Mount Rex mines near
Avoca (Tas.), has decided to discontinue
operations. The co., which has approxi-
mately £2OOO in hand, is on the hunt
for another property.
* * ♦ ♦
To change over from the cyaniding to
flotation method and provide for further
development, Rothsay (W.A.) is offering
200 debentures of £IOO each at par, re-
deemable Nov. 1, 1937, at a premium of
£l6. Meanwhile, holders have the right
to convert into 4s. shares at the rate of
500 fully-paids for each debenture, secured
by a first charge on the co.’s assets. W.
B. Chomley and Arnold Harris will pre-
pare plans for alterations and additions
to plant, the cost of which is not ex-
pected to exceed £15,000. None of the
present equipment will need to be
scrapped, the chairman says.
♦ * * *
After three years in London Claude de
Bernales returned to Perth the other day
to the accompaniment of Hags, cheers and
receptions. He has floated six cos. with a
nominal capital of over £6,500,000
and an aggregate working capital of
nearly three millions, both in Australian
currency ; also, the cos. concerned have
provided employment on the fields for
nearly 1000 men. The working capital
(in sterling) is split up as follows:
Commonwealth Mining and Finance,
£458,000 ; Yellowdine Gold Development,
£500,000; Gre*at Boulder Mining and
Finance, £478,000; Anglo-Auslralian,
£295,000; Beryl Gold Development,
£209,000 ; Murchison Gold Development,
£140,000; Southern Cross Development,
£116,000; North Kalgurli United,
£IOO,OOO. Some of the cash has already
been spent on plant and development;
there is still about £1,500,000 of it in the
banks in Westralia.
* * * ♦
Edjudina, a Sydney-controlled co., is
installing treatment plant at Yarri, about
100 miles north-east of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), and expects to get its first cake
of gold by Christmas. Estimated ore
reserves down to 60ft. are 250,000 tons,
to be dug out and treated at the rate of
3000 tons a month. The Porphyry Cos.
bought the show from two prospectors
over a year ago, and passed it on to
Edjudina.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Kalgoorlie National has optioned its
leases at the northern end of the Golden
Mile (W.A.) to a London concern on
terms which, the directors consider,
“should show an excellent return to
shareholders.” In the past, this area,
worked to shallow depths, has given little
encouragement for large-scale mining.
Kalgoorlie National has taken an option
at Menzies.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Corp., recently
formed in London with a capital of
£400,000, is developing the Prince
George and Meier’s Find leases at Yel-
lowdine (W.A.) with satisfactory results.
It is expected that two subsidiaries will
be formed to take over and work these
areas in the near future.
% * * *
After several months’ development
work on its option at Hampton Plains
(W.A.), the Mt. Martin Cos. has thrown
in the towel and proposes to reconstruct.
Further development was recommended
by the co.’s engineer, but, since crushings
failed to live up to expectations, call
money was difficult to collect. *
Much remains to be done on the You-
anmi’s East Murchison (W.A.) pro-
perty ; it is not anticipated that actual
mining will commence until early in 1936.
The pref. div. on 500,000 10s. shares,
carrying a cumulative 7 p.c. and issued
at par in April last, is not likely to be
paid this year. Total issued capital is
£500.000.
* * * *
Gold Exploration and Finance has in-
creased its holdings in Western Mining
Corp., Bendigo Mines, Carshalton,
Triton and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie.
Accounts show a p. and 1. debit of £9039,
which is carried forward. Investments
in subsidiaries figure at £478.785. and in
associated cos. at £261,218 ; British Gov-
ernment securities amount to £131,097,
and cash to £32.220.
* * * *
Paringa, at the northern end of the
Golden Mile (W.A.), has treated two
small parcels of development ore. The
first, 69 tons, averaged 10.19dwt.; the
second, 66 tons, averaged 9.22dwt. The
stuff was taken from the main and east
branch lodes. A drive connected with
the No. 6 borehole has disclosed a patch
of 16.82dwt. ore, 8ft. wide.
* * * *
The old, old story: Recently some
people whooped about the prospects of
a Yalgoo (W.A.) venture acquired under
option by Brilliant, and the market soared
a shilling or two, only to fall with a thud
when a poor return was announced.
Merely a squib on a squibby field.
* * * *
London-controlled Meekatharra Gold
Mines is sinking two shafts to 150ft.
each on its Haveluck leases, at Meeka-
tharra (W.A.). The co., which has a
working capital of £166,000, expects to
open up a large body of low-grade ore.
* * * *
London money continues to be sent
to Westralia for goldmining purposes.
The latest remittance forwarded by Great
Boulder Mining and Finance was equal
to £500,000 Aust. Large amounts are
also expected to be remitted presently by
Edjudina Consolidated and one or two
others.
>1* * * *
Greenbushes, Weslralia’s one and only
remaining tinfield, is stated by the local
paper to be showing “a great deal of
activity.” Several parties are fossicking,
and a few tons of metal a month are
being got. Years ago the field produced
about £1,000,000 worth of tin.
* . * * *
Dividends and bonuses distributed by
Westralian goldmining cos. last year
amounted to £1,009,058, making the
aggregate since records were kept
£30,840,869. To the years total Lake
View contributed £320,500, Wiluna
£350,000, Sons of Gwalia £97,500, South
Kalgurli £62,500 and Great Boulder
£58,332.
* * * *
Triton (W.A.) has had another interim
clean-up, covering 15 days’ operations.
From 2434 tons, 722oz. of fine gold was
recovered, and an additional 73oz. from
slags and amalgam. The plant absorbed
64oz.
♦ * * *
Operations at Lake Austin (W.A.)
have ceased; over a period of two
months 760 tons of ore and 50 tons of
alluvial cement yielded 63oz. Investi-
gations are being made to see if some-
thing can be salvaged. •
* * * *
Ex-Governor Campion (chairman) and
Claude de Bernales (managing director)
view Commonwealth Mining and
Finance prospects through rose-colored
glasses. Both reckon shareholders have
reason to be happy. De Bernales is of
opinion that the present year’s work will
see sufficient progress to merit “serious
consideration being given to the forma-
tion of subsidiary cos. to work the
respective mines, in which the Common-
wealth Co. would retain an extensive
interest.”
* * ■ * *
“O.B.”: There is talk on the Rand,
S. Africa, of mining to a vertical depth
of 10,000ft. Until recently the limit was
7500ft. But with gold at £7 an ounce the
average value of pay ore has been re-
duced from 4.3dwt. to 2.9dwt. per ton,
and better methods of dealing with the
problems of temperature and humidity
have recently been evolved. An increase
of 2500ft. in the workable depth would,
it is estimated, bring an additional
200,000,000 tons into the ore reserves
of existing mines.


tAOTo^
D
a
"W
*
■•-w.
No longer need excessive carbon deposits give you
trouble and expense—Atlantic New-Process Motor
Oil eliminates them completely!
This new Oil has the improved body ... the intensi-
fied resistance essential for correct lubrication of
modern high-temperature, high-speed engines.
It outperforms . . . outlasts any other oil ever intro-
duced and contains none of their disadvantages
such as sludging . . . gumming and carbonising.
This guarantees smoother operation throughout . ..
less replacement of worn parts and, consequently,
an actual cash saving!
Drain and refill to-day with this marvellous Atlantic
New-Process Motor Oil.
g
v<
m
. . -... . XX
•»
MOTOR OIL
THE PERFECT RUNNING HATE TO ATLANTIC ETHYL
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD..
AUSTRALIA ft NEW ZEALAND.
A.M.O. 3-4S-3S.
THE PERFECT MOTOR SPIRIT


ABORIGINALITIES
“Spes": Wc had just finished digging
a channel from (he bore-drain to a lank
when the overseer suggested a dip “be-
fore she becomes too hot”—he meant well
over boiJing-point. Seven of us. with the
manager’s 15-year-old son, were disport-
ing in the rising water when up rode
four Brisbane girls staying at the home-
stead on holidays. Used to unclothed
chests on the beaches, the damsels
let their prads nibble the grass while they
yarned, quite oblivious of our position
in the rising and much hotter water. One
’roo was on the verge of heat apoplexy
when he took advantage of youth and
innocence. Grabbing hold of the school-
boy, with water almost to
his neck, he heaved him
on to the bank. “Out you
go or you’ll drown!” he
yelled. The kid’s blushes,
weren’t a patch on our
hides when the girls took
a tumble and cantered off.
It cured us of bathing
within riding distance of
the homestead.
* * ♦
“Barton Hydes”; At the
last big duck-shoot held
near Cunnamulla (Q.), the
top scorer was forthwith
tried by the rest and sen-
tenced to have his hat
thrown up before a firing
squad of five. A plea for
leave to throw up the con-
demned hat was allowed.
Standing behind the tiring squad, the
owner counted “two” in measured tones :
a slight pause, and “three!” was barked
out with such dramatic suddenness that
the five guns were discharged in a volley
before he threw the hat. Subconscious
mind operating in mass?
* * # *
“Delia”: Elephant yarns are always
to be regarded with suspicion, but this
one comes from Melbourne. Alice, the
chaperon and leader of Wirths’ elephants,
is the heroine. Tins of condensed milk
had been disappearing from a locked
store shed, and a watch was set. Alice
rolled up, unlocked the door and took
out a tin of milk. This she burst open
by banging it on a peg ; then, having
carefully extracted the contents, she
dropped the accusing tin over a near-by
fence, locked the door again and strolled
off.
* * * ♦
“Kariah”: Have never found anyone
to believe me when I mention the enor-
mous turtles seen in Port Stephens
(N.S.W.). Four of us came alongside
one which was every bit of 16ft. long ;
it was encrusted with barnacles and
oysters. Shortly afterwards a launch
party received the fright of their lives
when an outsize turtle fouled the anchor
and began to tow the craft in circles.
* * * *
“Groper”; The often as
often ridiculed statement that white-
ants are capable of eating their way
through metal has at last received posi-
tive proof in Perth. In certain streets,
notable for large and ancient trees, lead-
sheathed telephone cables developed
leaks, and on being lifted revealed
sizable holes, which, apart from the evi-
dence of the termites inside the insula-
tion, showed under the microscope dis-
tinct grooves left by the mandibles of
the insects as they gnawed their way
through. The source of infection was
the trees, the termites seeking a change
of diet; though how they should know
that such a change resided inside the
lead sheath is something that passeth
human understanding.
* t- * *
“Speewaa”: One of the most ingeni-
ous hotel signs in Australia disappeared
from Cobden (Vic.) when they rebuilt
the pub. The old tavern —a weather-
board structure dating back to the ’sixties
—carried along its facade a line of
strange devices —a bird, the word “in.”
the figure “4,” the letter “a,” then a
blob. When you studied the collection
for a few seconds you gathered that the
translation was “Duck in for a spot.”
♦ * * *
"Nigger Boy”; The dailies haven't
made anything of the fact that Hides, on
his notable trek from the Strickland to
the Purari, came across villages in which
all the pigs were five-toed. Le Souef, at
Sydney Zoo, aware for some time of
Papua’s' five-toed swine, reckoned that if
they weren't freaks they were proof of
a reversion of evolution. There was
excitement on a M.L. farm not long ago
when a five-toed throwback was found
in a litter. I haven't heard of one in
the Commonwealth.
!|! <1 * (!
“Crane”: In its own little way one of
the worst pests on the N.Q. cane-
ficlds is the woggy, known to some as
the bald-headed cool. This bird, a gor-
geous caricature of colors let loose, with
serpent-like toes and an engaging man-
“I see a mans sold 'ees brains for a thousand. Wonder Wot they'd
gimme fer mine?"
“Ask that bloke with the axe"
ner, plays the deuce with cane when in
its young stages. But he works only on
the fringe of the field, and a few shots
let him know the place is unhealthy
for him. He takes the tip, and after
that he gives that field a miss in baulk.
Having a sweet tooth he fancies the
young cane when it’s about six inches
to a foot high, when some real cane is
showing under the cabbage. He pulls
the heart out of the top of the growth,
dives down into the cane, strews it about,
eating what he wants, and, having a big
appetite, he passes on to the next. Half
a dozen woggies can skim a couple of
figures off a cane cheque quick and lively
when they get on the job,
* * * *
“Neptune": “T.L.C.” (B. 18/9/’35) is
wrong in his description of the Port-
land-road goldfield. Inaccessible? It is,
I should say, one of the most accessible
Australian fields. The steamer lies about
100 yards offshore, and intending pas-
sengers are landed in a motor-launch.
Once ashore, an hour’s journey will land
you right on the goldfields.
;Jc Jfc v •>'
“H. W. Darwin”: Goannas, eh (B.
16/10/’35)? I studied their habits on a
station north of Oodnadatta (C.A.), in
practically the homeland of the goannas
and their big cousins the printies.
The lizards are certainly more skit-
tish at midnight than midday, quicker
on the get-away and altogether much
bolder than in daytime. The ener-
vating Centralian daylight makes them
sluggish—they prefer to sunbake on a
rock or fallen tree-limb, occasionally
flicking at a roving fly or spider; but,
whether it's from a waterhole, the station
cattle-troughs or one’s waterbag. they
invariably drink after dark. Binghi hunts
them only during the noonday hours
because “Kwoolcudie [goanna] and
booladie [printie] run about too much
quick-pfeller night-time ; dinner-time ’im
knock-up, allabout catchum easy-pfeller
dinner-time.”
“Purinthy”: Please tell “Laetitia” (B.
9/10/’35) that he won’t find my deep-
sea goanna while beachcombing. I
said he inhabited the deep water at the
edge of the coral reef, living in the caves
there in anything down to a depth of 14
fathoms. The ordinary land go. will pick
up odds and ends on the reef when the
tide leaves it bare. L have seen this
fellow take to the water driven only by
his appetite. Not only does he swim,
and swim well, but he also dives
with ease and stays under a long
time if put to it. Apart from the go.,
snakes also find good hunting on a
reef when the tide is out. I’ve seen
numbers of the red-bellied black, and
also that grey-green cove who is mainly
a tree-snake. Those fellows slink from
rock to rock and coral to cave. They
pick up small and scuttling crabs with
alacrity.
* * * #
“Pagewood”: In Centralia to-day
there’s a crab living hundreds of miles
away from his original habitat. Explana-
tion is that (he inland sea stranded him
there when it retreated in ancient times,
and he learned to acclimatise himself.
Now he runs about in dry creekbeds like
a spider, but he's still a crab.
* * * Jjt
“J.T.McM”: “X.T.4" (B. 23/10/*35)
nominates the Carandotta woolshcd hole
as being the most famous (or infamous)
cattle-trap on the Georgina (W.Q.). The
Carandotta bore also has its reputation.
Anyone who immerses his head in the
flow can look forward to complete bald-
ness after six months.
♦ * * *
“Naturalist”: To get some idea of the
tremendous upward pressure which sends
sap right to the tip-top of a 350 ft. tree
(B. 9/10/’35) it’s only necessary to lop
off a main branch from a strong grape-
vine. Sap-bleeding will start instantly,
and nothing can stop it—not tarry ban-
dages, hot pitch, varnish, nor even cauter-
ising with a blowlamp. And the bleed-
ing will go on for weeks, during which
time bucketfuls of sap will be lost. Only
when the upward rush slows down will
it stop, Nature healing the wound by
means of a jelly-like coagulation.
* * * *
“Tiki”: “Marra’s” porpoise tale (B.
23/10/’35) reminds me of other perils
of the deep. I refer to the black trout
of Avon, which winds through Christ-
church (M.L.). The ancestors of these
terrible fish were a pair imported from
Alsace in 1863, and those who know their
history call them Alsatians. Citizenry
of Christchurch, much given to hiring
canoes at 6d. and rowing-boats at Is. per
hour (pay on return), began to go up or
down the river as the case might be and
vanish utterly. The boat (or canoe)
would be found a day or two later some-
where near the sea, or, alternatively, up
near the source of the river, in the dark
forest known as Deans’s Bush. The boat-
shed proprietors, their tenderest feelings
lacerated by the loss of so many cus--
tomers, organised a night patrol of the
river (these disappearances seldom hap-
pened in daylight). A stalwart waterman
whom I encountered in the Star and Gar-
ter told me, many years afterwards, how
the mystery was solved. He and a mate
were keeping vigil near the hostelry
bar (which in those days officially closed
at 11 p.m.). The companion felt asleep,
and my informant felt himself drifting oil
to bye-bye when he was suddenly
brought wide-awake by something like a
wet tyre-tube coiling round his neck. At
the same time something bit him viciously
on the nose. Though the light was dim
he could see that rising out of the river
w'as an endless chain of sinuous and im-
mensely muscular Alsatian trout, each
with his tail in the mouth of another.
In a trice he was pinioned like the folk
in “The Laocoon.” Then, slowly but
irresistibly, he felt himself being drawn
overboard. He let out one horrible yell:
his mate awoke, and a second later the
living chain of marine monsters had
separated into a hundred lean blackfish,
who swam away, their green eyes glit-
tering hatefully. After that the boatshed
proprietors insisted on cash in advance,
and disappearances returned to normal.
* « * *
“Arrah”: A circus travelling down the
N.S.W. North Coast is having its full
share of adventure. Near Bellingen a
truck drawing a trailer-cage of four lions
got out of control and plunged into a
deep creek, the trailer (with lions) re-
maining in a precarious position balanced
on the steep edge. Two elephants vvhich
had ambled ahead into town had to be
brought back to save the lions from a
watery grave. At Coff’s Harbor one of
the Jumbos went on a tour of explora-
tion, climbed into a railway van con-
taining cases of bananas, and amused
itself by crushing cases and devouring the
fruit.
» >ii * *
“Squalus”: The recovery of human
remains from the interiors of sharks is
bc c o ming monotonous.
Two cases have been re-
ported recently from Mac-
kay (Q.), whence come (he
rum and Forgan Smith.
For many years coastal
md other steamers have
ain at anchor inside Flat
Fop Island, off Mackay,
rocked in a persistent and
soul-searching swell. In
addition to contributions
by countless wretched pas-
sengers, tons of garbage
were heaved over there.
The result was a perma-
nent force of sharks, many
of whom were known to
habitues of (he coast by
their Christian names.
Anyone falling overboard
from the cargo or pas-
senger lighters which plied
between ships and shore
had a thin chance of get-
ting aboard again. In one
of the Mackay cases the
remains have been identi-
fied as those of a hapless lumper who
missed his step and found a shark wait-
ing for him.
* * *
“A.N.S.”: Tim lifted the dangerous-
looking pointed stick he had been lean-
ing on, and jabbed it viciously down a
hole in the black soil. The head of a
slate-colored snake shot up like a cata-
pult, to be followed by a second. “Looks
like love in a cottage,” I suggested, but
the comment went unheeded —Tim was
dealing it out to another one. Do the
shameless shemales of this tribe have two
husbands, or was it just another case of
the infernal triangle?
“Oruncha”: Had the snakes in the bag
carried by the Albury (N.S.W.) man (B.
23/10/’35) been browns instead of tigers,
he mightn’t have died. The brown is
one of the deadliest of pur wrigglers,
but so short are its fangs that a coat-
sleeve, a trouser-leg or even a sock is a
safeguard against them.
* * * #
“Jachris”: I’d say those horses Haile
Silassie had, worth £lOOO apiece (B.
23/10/’35), were Arabs all right. One
of the scores of photos, of the little
Emperor which the Sydney dailies
have been using shows him climbing off
a fine black, whose flat line of the croup
and length to the hocks leave no mis-
take as to his breeding. More interest-
ing is the fact that the Emperor is getting
down on the right-hand side.
**• * *
“Otter”: Fish drown? Of course they
do! All trawled fish are drowned when
hauled up, and so are the myriads of her-
rings harvested in European waters. As
with “Oloc’s” fish (B. 23/10/’35). the
herrings are caught in gill nets. These
prevent the proper functioning of the
breathing apparatus and suffocate the
catch.
DOG’S LOVE.
He won't be there to welcome me when I get
home to-night.
And let me sec that, anyway, he reckons I’m
all right.
He won't be there to play his part in life's
haphazard scheme
By helping to revive again my fading self-
esteem.
I don’t suppose he saw as far as human eyes
can see;
But if he harbored any doubts he kept them
hid from me.
Whatever fears for me lie had he swept into
the past
However or whenever 1 came home to him at
last.
His wistful, almost human, look I’ll always
keep in mind:
He never failed to find in me the man 1 try
to find.
Perhaps his pride wais not in vain. I’ll never
cease to doubt
If only a dumb creature died when his old
heart gave out.
WESTRALU.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Wariloo”: From an upstairs window
at a wayside pub I saw it. A bullocky
using the pub yard to change his team
round had closed the yard gate. The
village drunk, who did odd work in the
stables behind the pub, was staggered to
notice that someone had taken the liberty
of closing the yard gate! He’d go and
see into this. Opening, entering and
closing the gate he turned to find a bul-
lock within an arm’s length breathing
heavily in his face. He didn’t know any-
thing about bullocks, but if he’d been
asked he’d have described that one as
an “eighteen-hander,” and its horn-span
was terrific. When he regained his breath
he weakly stammered out, “ ’Ow about
this bloke?” Bullocky, busy yoking up
a steer, in which both hands and his teeth
were engaged, slowly turned his head,
sized up the situation, and remarked
casually: “Wouldn’t move if I was you.”
Some minutes later, when the huge beast
was led away to take his place in the
team, the drunk was stone-sober.
* * * *
“Mitre Rock”: Snoozing on top of
the water on a sunny day (B. 23/10/’35)
has been the undoing of many a good
turtle. Most of the Papuan littoral tribes
make no bones about catching them when
resting this way, and 1 have often
watched my police boys do the trick
when cruising along the coast in a whale-
boat. The turtle spotted, a boy would
slip softly over and come up behind the
unsuspecting soup-to-be. Seizing the
hind flippers with crossed hands, the
hunter turned his quarry over on its back
with a dexterous twist, and his mates
finished off the job of hauling the weighty
beast into the boat.
jfc * *
“Corselet”: Yes, Torres and Papuan
waters swarm with sea - snakes (B.
30/10/’35), though deaths from bites are
rare. 1 have sailed for half a day in
a whaleboat through swarms of these
wrigglers lying in the hot sun on top
of the water. There were singles, four-
somes and uncounted clusters, these last
looking like masses of unwholesome
spaghetti. That was along the n.-e.
Papuan coast, between Mamba beach
and Mitre Rock; the fact that it was
the lovemaking season was probably
responsible for the gathering.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: As to vultures (B.
23 /10/’35), it would pay to import the
South African aasvogel as a counter to
the blowfly. Strictly protected in S’Africa,
the hideous fowl is not a danger to any
living thing unless it be in a dying con-
dition, and the amount of carrion and
incipient carrion a few birds can get
away with in a day or two has to be seen
to be believed. Sheep carcasses which at
present breed the blowfly would vanish
if these scavengers once became estab-
lished in our wool districts. The trouble
would be establishing them. They can-
not be confined to one place, and some
neighboring run-owner who persisted in
poisoning carcasses instead of giving the
birds a chance would upset the whole
applecart.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: Tell “Western” (B.
9/10/’35) that in a car I have paced
emus up to 40 miles an hour on the
West Darling claypans for short bursts.
And years ago we jackeroos on Toorak
station (Nelia, N.Q.) used to find that
on horseback we could keep alongside
an emu only for the first mile ; after that
the big fowl got his second wind, and
not even a fresh horse would be in the
race then.
* * * *
“Selma”; In a small N.S.W. country
town the cleric was an enthusiastic
apiarist, and not only kept his own house-
hold in honey, but sold a satisfactory
amount to the store. One Sabbath, as he
was admonishing his flock from the pulpit,
he was observed to turn pale, waver and
finally, with the hurried announcement
of a hymn, seek the vestry abruptly.
Fear that he had been taken suddenly
ill swept the surprised congregation,
until through an opened window they
beheld the reverend one, still in his sur-
plice, rushing frantically with a large
"Toe done a bit of landscape-paintin' in me time, but I never Was much
good at these marine studies."
beehive in the direction of a dark object
on the parsonage fence. Realising the
situation, a couple of sympathetic wor-
shippers tiptoed out to assist. When
the congregation was ready to file out
the swarm was safely housed, and the
parson, with the air of one who has done
a good morning’s work, was in his place
to shake hands affably with each mem-
ber as he passed through the church
porch.
* * * *
“A.A.”: The butter-box cooker used
by the Condamine scrub-cutter (B.
23/10/’35) is but an imitation of the
“hot box” used by countless bush
housewives. A tea-chest is padded inside
with paper 2in. thick, and lined with
hessian. Into this is piled screwed-up
paper and straw ; a lid is lined similarly,
and fitted. All Mrs. Bushie has to do
when she wants to give dad a hand with
the milking is to put the tea in boiling
water about lunch-time and sink the pots
in the box. I’ve seen jam, pickles and
puddings made in the same way.
* * * *
“Tripod”: “Bill Boredrain” (B.
23/10/’35) says plagues of vermin move
in well-defined directions. A tribe
of Happy Family birds which two
seasons ago built their nests near Nerang
(s.-e. Q.) are rapidly shifting west. Last
year they built four miles from Nerang,
and this spring they are five miles
further on. Their nests (I’ve counted
over 100) are spread over four acres. Co-
incident with the departure of the fowls
is an invasion of hares, pests practically
unknown in the district until this year.
* * # *
“Dry Gully”: What’s the strength of
this creeping desert of the inland that's
getting all the prominence now? I knew
that desert before most of the present
discoverers were born. So far as I can
"'Ello, b'low! I be coomin' down in a minute."
judge, the thing is the same now as then.
I know fellows who knew it before I
was born. They tell me there is nothing
unusual in its movements, other than
that typewriters are cheaper and
more common now than they were 30
years back. Almost it seems to me the
fool public must have its scare headings
when Test cricket, divorces and wars
aren't on tap. The “mystery” of the
Douglas Mawson women filled the bill
for a while. Atrocities by or to blacks is
always a handy fill-in. The Alsatian
dog, Japanese luggers, buffalo fly, theatri-
cal weddings, jaunts of politicians, honors
lists —those are with us all the time and
ease us over the doldrums when news is
scarce. Can’t someone do something to
lift the public mind off that creeping
menace? It’s a dry subject, and not one
in a thousand understands it.
* * *
“Trumpet”: Tell “Vamac” (B.
23 /10/’35) that other birds besides the
brolga have that elaborate spiral wind-
pipe in various degrees. The pipe is
twisted for the same reason that the
straight brass tube of wind instruments
is twisted, to obtain the necessary effect.
All the cranes have the peculiarity, to-
gether with the emu and the bittern.
♦*■ * *
“Walkabout”: Mango-trees in North
Queensland soon will be providing the
annual tuckout for myriads of flying-
foxes. Only those who have tried to
sleep in a house overbranched by a tree
bearing ripe mangoes have any idea
of the annoyance caused by the foxes
knocking down the fruit, to thud, thud
throughout the night on the galvanised-
iron. There’s a fortune awaiting (he
bloke who can invent a type of roofing
weatherproof and soundless; like the
rabbit and dingo, flying-foxes appear to
defy extermination.
* * * *
“Mulga”; When “Double Disc” (B.
2/10/’35) has handled as many kingfish.
as I have he will realise that they carry
only the narrowest ribbon of scales
under what might be their armpits, with
more than nine-tenths of the body as
bare as a frog’s. “D.D.” goes on to dis-
pute the statement that the kookaburra
is not heard off the coastal fall; he has
seen and heard the bird at Lake Car-
gelligo, near the Lachlan. But the Lach-
lan is on the coastal fall; its waters run
into the sea. “Myall,” in the same issue,
states he has heard whips of curlews and
kookaburras on the Barcoo. As the
headwaters of the Barcoo are only half
a throw from those of the Nogoa,-he is
drawing fine lines when he includes that
in the interior of the continent. Anyway,
the Barcoo isn't W.Q.
* * * *
“Doc”: “Rus” (B. 16/10/’35) may err
in crediting the disembowelled Torres
Strait “boy” with great stoicism. In
many such cases paralysis of the muti-
lated spot sets in. I can recall a case of
a 10-year-old child, the victim of a truck
accident, sustaining fatal abdominal in-
juries yet feeling no pain. She retained
possession of her faculties, chatting
cheerfully with her parents until near the
end.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”; He was a bustling
“townie” touring our outback M.L. dis-
trict to make sure that all eligible names
were on the roll. The boss found him
trying to take down the top wires of the
fence near the homestead to let his horse
over. “Why didn’t you come through
the main entrance gate, four chains
away?” barked the boss. “But that
gate won’t open,” replied the stranger.
“It’s got hinges on both ends.” “ ’Course
it has,” snapped the boss. “It’s a double
gate. It opens from the middle.” Then
they both laughed, but the boss’s mirth
was the louder.
* * * *
“Groper”: The Speck’s recent experi-
ence with stranded whales (B. 30/10/’35)
might have been worse —the cetaceans
might have been humpbacks, such as
occasionally come ashore on the coast of
Westralia. Sections from the vertebrae
of a 100-ton whale make handy chairs!’
More than one attempt has been made
to salvage these W.A. humpbacks, but
without much success. One needs a
strong derrick and powerful tackle to
flenze such a carcass ; while the blubber
isn’t nearly as blubbery as its name sug-
gests. Actually, it’s nearly as tough as
rubber, and requires to be strained to a
high tension to cut at all readily. So
W.A. humpbacks are allowed to lie until
they smell to high heaven and the sea
for a mile around is covered with a film
of oil. Once on a time they repre-
sented a harvest for the coastal blacks,
the tribes for 50 miles around sinking
all differences until the great gorge was
finished. With his belly full of toasted
blubber and himself greasy from head
to foot from sliding about the carcass,
Binghi of those times attained to about
as high a pitch of happiness as is pos-
sible on this planet
THE LOAFER.
You can always tell a loafer, if there's loafin’
in the crew; , . . .
You can always tell a loafer cause he has so
much to do.
In the woods the smallest timber is the timber
he will find.
In the yard the twelve-by-twenty is the sort he
leaves behind.
He will fuss and he will fiddle huntin’ up the
softest snap;
Life’s an everlasting treadmill for the take-it-
easy chap.
Yes, it takes a lot of trouble skippin’ labor
day by day;
For a feller has to figger how to dodge it all
the way.
On the drive or in the timber, in the mill or
in the yard,
You can always tell a loafer ’cause he works
so bloomin’ hard!
QUEENSLAND.
KINGSLEY TEMPLE.


HITS
LrS
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
I:
5-V
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGIŢS LINSEED MEAL.
Wet Wool.
“Murrawong”: Although the evidence
in the recent inquiry into the Golds-
brough Mort woolstore fire in Sydney
negatived the suggestion that it was
caused by wet wool, witnesses did not
attempt to minimise the danger of press-
ing wool in a wet state, and this is worth
noting by those people who still insist
that the practice does no harm. As far
as free fleece wools are concerned, these
may be pressed wet without much danger
of their actually causing a fire, but they
will certainly engender heat, and the
wool will be greatly deteriorated by
mould, the musty smell of which will be
instantly noted by buyers.
The greatest danger comes from press-
ing low-grade wools wet—stained pieces,
crutchings and dead wool especially—
and the more burr and vegetable matter
contained in the wool the greater the
danger of spontaneous combustion. The
heat engendered by the wet wool may
not in itself do more than injure wool
fibre, but it may ignite the more com-
bustible burr and rubbish. Jute pack
burns easily, and after that the dry,
greasy floor of woolroom or -store is an
easy mark.
It is often difficult to get all stained
wool dried by the cut-out of the shed,
but if is better to leave it to be pressed
later by station hands. If circumstances
force the pressing of damp wool, the
broker should be told the number of
the bale, or else the bale should be sent
to a pooling agency for immediate
handling.
Apart from the question of pressing
wet wool, (here is one other source of
danger. Some wool which leaves the
station dry gets wet in transit. Owners
should insist on their carriers having a
serviceable tarpaulin, and earners should
see that (he railway truck they load into
is also supplied with one.
Fleece-tracking.
“Seenitall”: 1 endorse “Byramine’s”
remarks about shearers being taught to
shear a fleece properly (B. 18/9/’35).
There is no excuse for fleece-tracking, in
spile of the absurd clause in the
awards mentioned by “Warramulla” (B.
2/10/’35).
If the shearer would lift his right fool
when working up to the head of the
sheep, place it outside the fleece, and then
draw it into the side of the animal, all
the troubles mentioned could be avoided.
It takes no longer ; neither does it put the
shearer to any trouble.
Fleece-tracking wasn’t allowed in the
early days, and should be stopped now.
It is merely a habit, which is fast becom-
ing ingrained in shearers.
Tracked fleeces can be picked up,
however, by taking both back legs in
each hand, drawing the fleece tightly
into the neck, which is held firmly at
and by the feet of the picker-up, and
then holding tightly whilst taking to the
wool-table. When throwing out, cast a
little harder than usual, and the fleece
should fall evenly on the table. If the job
is properly done the track of the shearer’s
foot will lie up the centre of the table.
A really crumply fleece won’t hold to-
gether in the throw, whatever the shearer
does.
Dags.
“Murrawong”: “Lion’s” method of
treating shed oddments (B. 16/10/’35) is
good, but, while his idea of letting the
pickers-up remove the dags from the
fleece may work in a small shed, in
general practice the job should be left
to the rollers.
Time is against the picker-up in carry-
ing out “Lion’s” technique. That part of
the fleece to which the dags are attached
is always the last to be shorn, and a
competent boy should have that fleece
picked up or drawn clear when the
shearer lets the sheep drop back on the
wool before putting it down the chute.
It is delay at this juncture which
results in the sheep getting its feet mixed
up in the fleece and dragging half of it
down to the pen to become trampled
and stained. In addition, any dag-
removing on the board would have to
be hasty and slapdash, and would lead
to more fleece being ripped off than
necessary.
Let the board boy get the fleece to the
wool-table as quickly as possible. Sweep
the loose dags, pieces and locks clear of
the stand at once. The sweeper should
Ihen pick out any bulky pieces and shake
the locks out of them before further
sweeping, put them to one side to
transfer direct to the piccc-pickers’ table
—not to the skirtings basket —then sweep
the residue toward the lock pack or
other receptacle. There the locks should
be picked off and the dags put aside on
a bag or bale cap to be dumped at the
end of the run.
Woolrollcrs should remove dags with
as little wool attached as possible before
skirting the fleece. Dags should be
thrown clear of skirtings, locks, etc., and
should be picked clean by woolrollcrs
whenever there is a lull, and dumped at
the end of the run.
An excellent plan is to plaqe an old
kerosene-tin against a wall near the wool-
table to receive dags. Woolrollcrs hate
dags, and the satisfaction they get from
registering on that tin with a heavy dag
develops into a competition that gives
good results all round.
Sulphur and Sheep.
“X.T.”: A lot of investigation has
taken place in the past four years as to
the results of including sulphur in sheep
diet. Some of the most detailed work
was done by the C.S.I.R. in S. Australia.
In one experiment sheep in control and
test lots were fed a basal ration of
wheaten hay, chaffed wheaten straw,
molasses, casein and linseed oil. To this
2grm, of flowers of sulphur daily was
added in feeding the test sheep. The
animals were shorn at the beginning and
again seven months later.
For the first five months they increased
slowly in weight at about parallel rates.
Then decreased consumption of roughage
brought about reduction, but an increase
in the proportion of hay chaff led to
better appetites and another weight
improvement.
At the end the sulphur-fed sheep had
increased by 4.5 kg., whereas the control
sheep were 6.4 kg. heavier. Conditions
varied slightly, and the conclusion drawn
was that the sulphur made little dif-
ference.
The same applied to wool counts
varied little as between the two lots, but
there was a small weight gain in favor of
the sheep which did not get sulphur,
though “not enough to be significant.”
Caseous Lymphadenitis.
"Winfield”; C.L. is a disease that
affects the sheepman more than the
sheep.
A tumor is formed, usually on the
shoulder or flank, but sometimes on the
thigh or crutch, and sometimes between
the two lungs, at the root of each lung,
or in the roof of the abdomen. When
the lung is affected, there is a short
cough and a discharge from the nose.
The tumor is seldom larger than an
apple, and when broken there is green-
ish-yellow, sticky matter. The pus is
all the more insidious since it seems to
be painless.
In England the law provides that
“the entire carcass and all organs shall
be condemned if evidence of C.L. is
found.”
Incision is now made in six different
points of every carcass intended for ex-
port, and those affected condemned. And,
since as much as 40 p.c. of a flock pri-
vately inspected was infected, the
disease is certainly one to be watched
by the export trade.
The chief cause of infection is shear-
ing. Germs enter the shear-cuts on
healthy sheep, sometimes through matter
being carried on the shears.
Keep the yards clear of dust and
dung, and spray with disinfectant. Treat
cuts with a carbolic dip. There is no
certain cure, apart from prevention.
Wasting Sickness in W.A.
“Western”: Veterinary science scores
another win. One of the curses of the
karri country of W.A. was “Denmark
wasting sickness.” Similar in form to the
better - known M.L. bush sickness, it
attacked both sheep and cattle, bringing
on anaemia, which speedily resulted in
death unless the animal was removed to
entirely different country.
Dairy herds were decimated, while it
became almost impossible to rear lambs
or calves. The remedies for the M.L.
disease proved of little value, the only
drugs showing promise being an iron-
and-ammonium citrate. This prevented
the animals from dying, but failed to
improve their condition. An addition of
a small ration of liver did, however, pro-
duce excellent results. Tried alone, liver
also was curative. It was, however,
found impracticable to provide enough
liver, so this line of research was aban-
doned.
The effect of greatly increasing the
dose of the iron-ammonium citrate was
next tried, with good results. But the
animals appeared to find the citrate un-
palatable, while its cost on a large scale
was prohibitive. Falling back on iron
alone, desirable because of its cheapness,
the research officials compounded a lick
composed largely of limonite, a water-
deposited ore usually containing minute
quantities of other elements. This lick
was found in turn to be curative, enabling
the disease to be completely controlled,
and in all herds increasing the butterfat
yield over 100 p.c.
But many of the badly affected
animals, on being subjected to a post-
mortem, had been found to have their
organs exceedingly well supplied with
iron—some, indeed, had an over-supply.
So limonite was treated to extract its
residual elements. Two affected animals
were then taken, one being dosed with
the extract, the other with the residual
iron. The first rapidly recovered, while
the iron-treated one rapidly wasted and
died.
The extract was analysed and divided
into four elemental groups—copper, iron,
zinc and sodium. Of these, the copper
and sodium groups were speedily elimi-
nated, leaving those of iron and zinc. Of
the elements in the zinc group, nickel
appeared to give the most promise,
affected sheep dosed with two milligrams
of nickel oxide per day showing rapid
improvement. Lambs, however, failed to
respond to such treatment. Further
analysis of limonite disclosed the pres-
ence of cobalt. Tried alone, it was found
effective.
One ounce of cobalt chloride has been
found sufficient to keep 40-head of cattle
healthy for a year at the cost of one
shilling.
Minimising Bruising.
“Becto”: A few years back an expen-
sive royal commission toured Queensland
to try to solve the beef-bruising problem.
Conclusions formed were pigeonholed,
and nothing was accomplished.
Trucks were padded in Rhodesia, with
excellent results. Most of the waggons
used in transporting chillers to Bulawayo
meatworks are now padded; the idea
is also extending to parts of South Africa.
It is claimed that bruising has been
reduced to less than 10 per cent.
Considering the freight rates charged
in Australia, and in Queensland especi-
ally. for cattle en route to the meatworks,
a trial of padded trucks seems to be
in order.
Run-out and Inbred.
“Ghanam”: Mr. E. J. Harrison, M.P.,
has referred to the low quality of cattle
herds in the Northern Territory, ascrib-
ing their state to inbreeding and the
failure of lessees to provide new infusions
of blood.
Mr. Harrison is not a cattleman, but
his eyes have not deceived him. Apart
from Brunette and Alexandria and
Vesteys’ properties, the general quality
of N.T, cattle is mainly a crying shame
and a menace. But the owners cannot
always be blamed for this. Most of the
smaller settlers went into the scrub with
little or nothing but their shirts, and in
the face of taxation, heavy freights and
rents they sometimes find it hard to re-
tain this valued garment.
There are some parts of North Aus-
tralia where almost every bull needs
shooting as a beginning towards estab-
lishing (he chiller industry, and if that
were done and good bulls were available
a few years would see a vast improve-
ment,
1 do not believe in Government wet-
nursing when it can be avoided, but it
seems to me that this is a matter in
which the Commonwealth might do
something. If a herd-bull farm were
established in or near the Territory and
owners were aided or encouraged to re-
place their mongrels with good animals
from it, it would be a boon.
Seeing that rents are low and areas
large, it might even be for the good of
everybody if it were a leasehold condi-
tion that only approved slock be used for
breeding. Such a regulation might be
hard to enforce, but no harder than a
lot of other edicts which are working.
It seems a fair thing, when land is made
available, to sec that it is used to the
limit of its producing power, having re-
gard to the lessee’s resources. Also, that
it should not be stocked with animals
which are a menace to the export trade
and the Commonwealth’s reputation as
a cattle-breeding country.
Bad cattle eat as much as good ones —
sometimes more —and take twice the time
to mature. If lessees could be helped to
put up quality 25 p.c. and double their
turn-off, the Commonwealth should get
its investment in aid to breeders back in
rent several times over after a few years.
And a stud farm to provide sires run on
sane lines should soon pay for its keep,
apart from that.
Sudan Grass and Sorghum.
“Laban”; Sudan grass, which should be
planted in N.S.W. by this time, but which
can still be put in in some districts, is a


A New
Small Grazier*’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
Tli?' fyiilleti/iL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
r Ojj
FOR GOLF . . . more
comfortable!
Here’s a handsome Abbey-
Brogue ... a solid, all-weather
shoe that’s great for wear over
the roughest going. It has an
upper built for the comfort of
the foot. The muscles are free
to exercise naturally. And that
helps your game.
Three widths per size.
Ensuring exact fit , . . you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half-size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size, and ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin) or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
WRITE FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street.
Sydney.
TKI.ECtHAPHK a DDUESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS 1 , SYDNEY.
FIT, 402.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two clays it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
TWO
HALF-TURNS
and it*s FULL!
TOP
turn
half
THEN
LEFT
TO
AGAIN
back.
This is the
simplest and
strongest pen
yet invented
—simpler to fill
and cannot go
wrong! Be up-
to-date see
and try it to-day
at any good
Stationers or
Jewellers.
PRICES;-The New
LEVERLESS ‘ Swan ’
from 2 I /-. Other
'Swans’ from 15/*.
* Blackbirds ’ from
10/-. ‘Jackdaws’
from 6/6.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings,
255 a George Street, SYDNEY
The LEVERLESS
<WAN
** PBW
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAN’ INK
k
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World's
Tales of youth anil Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d.
ķ
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 71 hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMPORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD..
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
Ai ls^l
AM
If
SCHUTE
IBIEILIUCSi
m.
sc.
sX
yW
2
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.. M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas.' Ashton, James Kidd. W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
tricky thing to handle if the seed is not
pure. It cross-pollinates freely with the
sorghums, and the half-caste thus pro-
duced is oftener more highly poisonous
when young than the pure grass.
The seed is easy to recognise. The
hybrid is roundish, as is shelled sorghum,
but pure Sudan grass is lean, flat and
inclined to be pointed.
Grazing Sudan, in any case, can be a
risky experiment, especially when young
shoots spring after rain following a
drought. Japanese millet is a far better
investment for dairy farmers, and if the
grass is grown it should be allowed to
head and cut for green feed or silage.
Summer on the Fallow.
“Stump Jump”: Until weed growth
slows down at the end of spring putre-
factive bacteria are the source of most
of the nitrogen stored in the soil as
nitrates. The greater the quantity of
green stuff ploughed under, the heavier
the nitrogen storage.
After this ceases the direct-fixing bac-
teria can draw nitrogen from the air, if
the fallow is loose enough, has a fine
tilth on a firm bed and contains enough
moisture.
These bacteria sporify into a resting
stage if these conditions don't exist, so
that the securing and maintenance of
them is the chief summer job.
Storms that flatten out a fallow, or
rains that even set it slightly, should be
followed by cultivation. Harrows are
quickest. Dust the top at least in most
cases. The heavier machines can follow
at leisure after this.
As a flat, hard bed, on which fine,
moist dust lies, draws moisture to that
point, flat-bottomed points on tyned
instruments always produce the best fal-
low. Every cultivation after the deep,
early-spring one should be a shade shal-
lower than the last, so putting away a
thin, nitrogen-rich layer and gradually
forming the seed-bed to 1 Jin. to 2in.
deep by sowing-time. In this way the
bacteria-active stratum on the hard bot-
tom is not violently displaced.
Nitrogen is just as important as super,
to the wheat plant. It is (he base of pro-
tein, which determines both vigor of
growth and the subsequent quality of (he
gluten in the grain. Obviously, it is
cheaper to accumulate nitrogen by cor-
rect cultivating methods than to apply
it as sulphate of ammonia at £ll per
ton.
Good Maize Crops.
“Jhe 0.D.”: The fertiliser needs of
maize vary according to nature and type
°l soil. Chemical analysis is not a reli-
able indicator: actual field trials are the
only trustworthy guides. Results of trials
collated by N.S.W. departmental ex-
perts show general recommendations
for grain production on the coast to be
Hcwt. to 2cwt. of super, to the acre, or
a like quantity mixture of equal parts
of super, and bonedust. If green fodder
is the aim, Hcwt. of super, and 561 b. of
sulphate of ammonia. Tablelands: 561 b,
of super. Inland slopes: 561 b. of super,
for the north, 841 b. to lewf. for the cen-
tral west, and Hcwt. to 2cwt. for the
south-west.
Bad cultivation cannot be corrected by
using artificial manures. Rotation of
leguminous crops should be practised.
Use farmyard manure if you have it,
and add lime to sour soils and heavy
clay loams.
The Rabbit in Australia.
D. G. Stead has written a useful
little book in The Rabbit in Australia
(author; 25.). As a former special com-
missioner of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to inquire into the menace, he has
a thorough grip of his subject, and goes
into detailed history of the expansion of
the animal which now infests two-thirds
of the continent, and into the technique
of destruction. He is an apostle of
cyanogas fumigation, which he declares
to be the only sure method of extermina-
tion, but only where there is com-
munal action to clear both private and
public lands. His fumigation method,
which he writes will give a 100 p.c.
kill, involves thorough study of the struc-
ture of burrows, fumigation from the
side from which the wind blows, treat-
ment from several openings rather than
a single one, and allowing the infused
warren to remain 24 hours before being
opened for inspection.
Poisoning, he avers, is dangerous and
inefficient, and he has little to say in
favor of trapping.
Drilling Small Seeds.
“Curlew”: To sow small seeds, such
as turnips, in field rows make a box to
fit inside the drill fertiliser box that will
hold seed mixed with super, so as to
feed it to only one fertiliser feeder. If
the drill is set for Icwt. of super, per
acre, it is easy, knowing the number of
runs and the number feeding seed, to
arrive at the quantity one run will feed
and to mix the needed seed with each
run.
Frequent cultivation is essential to
success in row sowing, otherwise weeds
and evaporation will take heavy toll of
the fertility and moisture.
Felt Balls.
“Currum”: As the abundance of wild-
cats and foxtail now in n.-w. N.S.W.
grows rank, the danger of felt balls in-
creases.
This is caused by small balls of un-
digested hair from the plants forming
in the sheep’s paunch. A post-mortem
will reveal the globes—ranging from jin.
to 3in. in diameter.
The trouble is hard to diagnose, and
there is no standard cure, other than an
operation.
The only hope lies in prevention. Keep
the flock well supplied with mineralised
salt lick, hut avoid licks containing
copper sulphate. Use the oat paddock
alternatively with one of grass or
herbage.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: Farmers usually
wrap a bit of thin bagging round a
draught chain that chafes a horse. An
inner lube of a bicycle or the skin off the
tail of a wallaby is a better protector
and makes a neater job, as it pulls on
over the links. The wallaby skin should
be put on fresh, hairy side in (the hair
acts as a buffer), and well washed over
with vinegar.
“Wandi”: An ever-set mouse-trap for
a barn: Set a kerosene-tin half-full of
water alongside a block or small packing
case, and tie a beer-bottle horizontally
on the latter, with the neck baited at the
end with a piece of cheese or bread, pro-
jecting over (he bucket. The mice run
along the bottle and slip ofl' into the
water.
“Nightcall”: As each poddy is fed,
put a dot of froth ofl' the milk on its
back and there can be no doubt as to
which have had their ration.
‘’Nora”: Womenfolk who help with
the milking and want to preserve their
hands from sores and roughness should
massage olive oil into them before
every milking. This will prevent the
milk getting under the nails, and the
hands will remain soft.
“Sam”: To make a sheep brand, take
a strip of leather 1 in. wide and k*ll-
- Stand the leather on a flat board,
form the letters with it, and tack. For
a handle tack both ends of a strip of
leather on the back of the board, with
just sufficient room for the fingers to be
inserted ; or bore a hole and affix 4in.
of broom-handle. Used on market
lambs, leather will not bruise as iron will.
“J. Want”: Researches by Professor
E. Mangold, of Berlin, suggest that the
use of artificial fertilisers is gradually
changing the composition of fodder
plants and vegetables. Using as a basis
of comparison Wolff’s tables, which were
compiled about half a century ago. he
has shown that calcium and magnesium
contents have remained static in sugar-
beet, oats and barley, but chlorine and
sulphur have increased. There are also
more chlorine, sodium and potassium in
young green cereals and potatoes than
there used to be before artificial manures
came into use. Potatoes and lucerne have
advanced in lime and phosphoric acid,
and grass and hay are richer in lime.
These results, of course, apply to Ger-
many. The professor thinks that there is
little danger of the changes unfavorably
affecting human and animal nutrition
through over-mineralisation of diet. In
some Australian districts it should be
the other way round—natural growth is
apt to be short in minerals.


advt
SEE
CHINA AND JAPAN
The popular E. & A. Line Steamers offer to passen-
gers a varied and interesting route, calling at
Rabaul, Manila, Hongkong, Shanghai and five ports
in Japan.
The comfortable SECOND SALOON accommoda-
tion is in 2, 3 and 4 berth Cabins, the Menu is
excellent, and Second Saloon passengers have many
privileges similar to First Saloon.
Passengers may live on board at all ports, fares ar»
free of exchange and the Australian £ is worth 25/-
in Japan.
ROUND TRIP STEAMER FARES:
Sydney to Yokohama
First, £90; Second, £56/15/-
Fares are Free of Exchange.
Joint E. & A. Passenger Agents:
S.S. NANKIN
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
leaves Sydney £) eC- 14
S.S. TAN DA
leaves Sydney Jan. 15
leaves Sydney Nov. 13
S.S. NELLORE
m


SMOKE-OH!
‘"Landowners at Beulah have reported a re-
appearance of grasshoppers. Most of those
seen have been immature, and were noticed by
farmers engaged in working their fallow.”
—“Weekly Times.”
Well, the darn things ought to do
something in return for what they ate last
year.
-I- -I- 4* •!-
Invaluable Assistance.
“Friendly relations arc essential to success
in any sport.”— “Sim.”
For yeqjfs I had struggled for a place
in the Dirtbox-lane hopscotch team.
Friendly relations got me there in the
end. Two of them were on the selection
committee.
In my first big game I was determined
to make good, but soon after the start
“Mum says have you got three pennies for the gas.”
I slipped on a cunningly concealed
loquat seed, and my left leg touched the
ground. Cheers from the opposition sup-
porters were drowned by my friendly
cousin’s declaration that all was in order.
He happened to be the umpire.
A friendly brother of mine who hap-
pened to be amongst the spectators
clinched the match for me when he put
out his foot and tripped my opponent.
Yes, I must-admit that friendly rela-
tions have put me where I am to-day—■
right at the top of the hopscotch tree.
S. Esq.
“ ‘Astronomers can now measure the weight
of the planets,’ says a scientific article.”
They work on a huge scale, of course.
plying High.
“A man can read a newspaper by the light
produced by a Costa Rica lantern-fly.”
— “Sun."
A bullet clipped the lobe of my ear.
It convinced me that a faulty memory
had tricked me into going over the same
rural ground selling hardwood nutmegs
and shares in a Northern Alaskan ice-
works. So I went back to San Jose to
try another honest line.
Struck by the lantern-fly’s possibilities,
I succeeded in catching several thousands.
Then I commenced training them to sit
perfectly still by the hour. It was tedious,
but eventually my work was rewarded.
Then I hired them out, giving the popu-
lace a necessary commodity at 50 p.c.
of the price charged by the gas com-
pany. The trained flies would sit on walls
or ceiling without the slightest movement,
thus ensuring an excellent, steady light.
Moreover, at the sound of a special
whistle which I supplied, they would go
from one room to another as required.
But I hadn’t reckoned with the low
cunning of the gas manufacturers. They
put on the market a mosquito-spraying
liquid made from their by-products. The
idiots (hat bought it didn’t stop to think
about my lantern-flies, and the mortality
was heartbreaking; worse, pocket-
breaking.
Disgusted, I left (he country, never to
return.
S. W. K.
-I- -!• -I- *
“Phonograph records of his talk were given
away.”— "Herald.”
Free speech at last.
•I* *l* •!• *l*
“ ‘The most indispensable quality in a cook,’
says a famous chef, ‘is punctuality.’ ”
Funny thing, we thought it was being
able to cook!
-I- -I- -I- *
Baby Talk.
“A child-study expert says the use of
baby talk’ is liable not only to confuse the
infant’s mind, but to have an effect on parents
themselves.”
“ 'Oo givems totem odds-em to two
bob Slowhoof for the next racey-pacey?”
I asked my s.-p. man.
“Right-oh ; you're setsy-wetsy,” he re-
plied. "Goinler have an ickle betsy-welsy
on the Cup?”
“Ickle me is waiting for a ringy-pingy.
A friend promised to give me the oily-
poily,” I said.
“Rightsy-pightsy ; yours truly-ooly will
be at the pubsy-wubsy,” he said.
People who heard us stared with
amazement. Then they realised that we
were both fathers.
But at the end of the day, when I
counted my losses, things weren’t too
hotsy-totsy, and I realised that there was
something besides the conversation that
was infantile.
H. M.
Getting the Wind Up.
“The Japanese Ministry of Communications
is considering an application lor the establish-
ment of a co. to operate Zeppelins between
Japan and Batavia.” — “Sun.”
The Onkus Marti, under the command
of Captain Okayme, was on her maiden
flight from Tokio to Batavia. The voyage
thus far had been without incident; the
engines were running smoothly and con-
ditions had been ideal.
As they passed over the Philippines
passengers in the luxurious observation-
room saw that the great airship was los-
ing height. Gradually it sank until it
came to rest on top of the jungle.
Captain Okayme entered. If he was
agitated it was only internally.
“A million pardons, beautiful ladies
and gentlemens, for the distressful occur-
rences. I have the most delighted honor
to inform you that it is with the deepest
regret we come down. There”—and he
pointed to a peculiar mechanism outside
the gondola, shaped like an enormous
thumbscrew “is the source of the
trouble. The honorable mechanics at the
airport failed to wind it up sufficiently.”
Keo.
.J. .T.
Cured.
Mrs. McAngus has found the sure cure
for drunkenness. For years she had been
worried by her husband’s frequent lapses.
She had tried medicines, threats, pro-
mises and pleas—all without success.
Then when he was particularly drunk
she persuaded him to take her to a
theatre. McAngus, in the uncertainty
of the moment, bought four tickets in-
stead of two. The shock killed him. Still,
it was a complete cure.
See.
v v -S* '!*
The Raw-deal Plan.
I have just evolved a plan which
almost settles the world's economic ills.
I’m calling it the Raw-deal Plan. It is.
broadly speaking, based on the principle
that A to Z equals the whole alphabet.
No party or section, political or other-
wise, dare dispute that fact, and that’s
where it has the wood on all other plans.
It follows that C + A + S + H equals
money; that C+R+E+D+l+T
is as good as money ; that F + I + N
+ A + N-fC + Eis still more
money; that W + O + R + K means
money, and L-l-O + A + N + S
more money again. In fact, it is prac-
tically impossible
to find anything
that doesn’t mean
money. But at
this point, un-
fortunately, the
scheme begins to
strike severe
trouble.
With all of us
having so much
money, nobody
would need to
work. And if no-
body worked it
naturally follows
that work would
cease to equal
m o ney. The
need for loans
would also dis-
appear, because
no one would
want to borrow.
Therefore loans
would no longer
equal money.
And credit and
finance, having
become obsolete
and unnecessary,
would go the
same way and
lose all money
value. So that in
the long run the
“ Don't give up, Beri — it'll make a
bonzer rod.'
only thing that would equal money would
be exactly the same as does to-day. And
that is— cash !
At this silly point my beautiful plan
goes bust altogether.
VOL-TEAR.
*l*
“She was satisfied to continue her relations
with him even though she realised that he was
married.” —Divorce Hem.
Content to drift with the tied.
* *1- * *
“A Sydney paper mentions that, amongst the
guests at a recent party were people named
Gale, Storm, Tempest and Breeze.”
Of course, they just blew in.
-h -’r *!*
Swindle.
The lovers had met in the woods for
the last time.
“Darling,” he murmured, “before we
part for ever I want you to give me a
little token by which I can always re-
member you. That gold ring you are
wearing—can 1 have it?”
She hesitated, looking at it fondly.
“Please!” he pressed. “I have always
associated that ring with you. It is
inextricably bound up with thoughts of
you in my soul. Its gold will remind me
of your golden hair. It will help me to
think of you when I am far away.”
She took it off and placed it tremblingly
on his finger. Her bosom heaved ; they
kissed ; they parted.
Once out of sight, he took the ring
off, tossed it in the air, caught it, and
muttered:
“Well, I got something out of it, any-
how. I wonder what it’s worth.”
At the same time she was sighing to
herself:
“Poor Jimmy! I wonder will he ever
find out it’s brass.”
T. W. N.
Tradition Violated.
I’ve heard about your night of wine!
Go! Hide your face with fitting
shame !
Alas! that ever son of mine
Should so disgrace our name!'
Out of my sight! Don’t let me see
Your form again this fatal day !
That deed of yours will torture me
And turn my locks to grey.
A h me! To think that you, with men
Who drank their liquor deep and
quick.
Consumed a pint of wine, and then —
Oh, gosh !—it made you sick !
HAN.
My Barber Loses a Fortune on the
Melbourne Cup.
“No, I wasn’t on the winner,” said
my barber mournfully. “Though I
oughter been. Mr, Bilson gave me the
tip last Friday. Though, come to that,
I was guv just about every horse in the
race, what with one gent, fancying this
and another liking that, so that when
yesterday came 1 didn’t know what bit
of advice to follow. ’Cos when you're
like that you don’t, do you, sir?”
1 agreed that in such circumstances
one was apt to be a little confused.
He flicked his razor a few times on
the strop and went on:
“So I said to the wife, joking-like,
‘l’d better back ’em all,’ I said. She took
me serious.. ‘Oh, no, you don’t,’ she
says. ‘What’s the good of that? They
can’t all win.’ Women is always greedy,
you know.
“ ‘Well,’ I asked her, ‘what one will
I back? P’raps you'll tell me that.’
“ ‘Pick it with a pin,’ she says. ‘lt’s
the only way.’
“Well, sir, she went and got a paper
outa the pantry, and I shut me eyes
and stuck a pin in it.
“‘Spearfelt!’ 1 says. “Well, no one
told me that!’
“So I sent young Joe round just after
lunch to put two bob on. ‘Just in time
for the race,’ 1 says to the wife.
“After a while Joe brought the two
bob back, ‘What’s wrong?’ I asked him,
‘Won't he take it?’
“ ‘No,* says Joe, ‘and he wants to know
if you’re sure you don’t mean Carbine?’
"Well, the bookie was a pal of mine,
so I look that as a hint to keep me
money in me pocket.
“Anyhow, you know how the race
went. sir. J listened to the broadcast an’
I read the afternoon paper, and there’s
no mention of Spearfelt at all. I reckoned
I was lucky the bookie
sent the two bob back.
But last night, sir, I hap-
pened to pick up the paper
the missus had made me
stick the pin in, and—
would you believe it, sir?
—it was nine years old.
Yes, nine years! Where
she’d got it from I don’t
know. Now wasn’t that
stiff, sir?”
“Well,” I said, “it was
certainly bad luck she
brought you the wrong paper. You
might”
"That’s not what I mean, sir. It was
the right paper all right, but she guv it
to me at the wrong time. I found out
from a bloke this morning that Spearfelt
won the Cup in 1926. If she’d got me to
stick the pin in then, I might’ve been a
rich man by now. That’s what I call
stiff.”
JASBY.
Toned Down.
“Samples of light-black socks, produced,
were examined in court, Mr. Justice Browne
pronouncing them ‘very neat “-—“S.M.H. '
There’s no disputing taste, of course;
but, still,
A UGUT-hlack pair for coveting the
hocks!
For some, perhaps, such things might fill
the bill,
But, as for me, 1 like the dark -black
socks.
BOKIO.


LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORT WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —-for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high—
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
\
60-
less Gauge
5 j m extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ with a
RENRUT
aUADFLU PL£
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
if- -
HAROTO ITART?
replace worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
mi
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
SPARKING PLUGS
S2B
The Steering Column.
CULTIVATING GOOD DRIVING HABITS.
WHAT EVERY DRIVER SHOULD KNOW.
BY FRED BERRY.
A LTHOUGH the modem car is simpler to drive than older
types, those motorists who desire economy and safety
would be well advised to cultivate certain habits on the road
and in the workshop.
Synchromesh gears, free-wheeling
devices, pre-selector units and automatic
clutches have eliminated skill from gear
changing, but even with these systems
the motorist will get far better service
from his car if he adopts the sound
practices in clutch manipulation essential
to the use of old types.
One of the first habits that should be
cultivated is to throw the clutch fully out
or leave it fully engaged. Slipshod
habits, easy to acquire, are difficult to
eliminate, and those motorists who slip
the clutch when the engine is laboring,
instead of changing into a lower gear
ratio, are among the worst offenders.
The left foot should never rest on the
clutch pedal once the car is travelling in
top gear at the desired speed. Apart
altogether from any mechanical con-
siderations, a more comfortable driving
position is had by the foot resting on
the floor.
Owing to the many advanced types of
simplified gear-changing, clutch-with-
drawal mechanism is now designed to
withstand a considerable amount of
abuse, graphite bearings of generous
dimensions being mainly responsible.
Despite this greater reliability, there is
no reason why the motorist should keep
the weight of his foot on the clutch
pedal, which eventually doubles or trebles
the natural wear occasioned by correct
gear manipulation.
Slipping the Clutch.
Of greater importance still is the
damage to faces due to the slovenly habit
of “slipping the clutch.” Ordinarily, the
modern single-plate, fabric-lined clutch
assembly will last the normal life of the
car if these instructions regarding “slip-
ping” are adhered to. But, once the
“slipping” habit is acquired, a new clutch
face might be necessary after 15,000 or
20,000 miles. In the meantime, because
of the surface becoming shiny and brittle,
the take-up in starting and in passing
through gears will be affected to such
an extent that enormous loads will be
imposed upon universal joints and rear
axle details, which in many cases is the
cause of serious breakdowns.
Motorists graduating from the old type
of “crash” gearboxes to the more modern
units incorporating synchromesh cones,
while finding the operation of gear shift-
ing simplified, frequently lose the full
effect of the newer unit by failing to
understand thoroughly its object.
The old habit of pausing in neutral
and perhaps double-shuffling to effect
a quiet and efficient change of ratio is
hard to live down, but the correct
method to adopt when using synchro-
mesh gears is to draw the gear-lever
slowly through from one position to an-
other, the pause, if any, being made when
one feels the synchronising cone begin-
ning to spin. This,, of course, is necessary
to co-ordinate the speeds of the new
pinions about to be used.
Gear Changing.
The worst mistake one can make in
using synchromesh gears is to snap the
gear handle through from one position
to another rapidly. When this is done,
the minute cones, or clutches, have no
time to work properly, and if extreme
violence is used it is possible that they
will be badly scored and damaged.
Some motorists hold the opinion that
the automatic clutch, now a common fit-
ment, provides a “slipping” action, but
in this they are astray. The mechanism,
when properly adjusted, provides an
exact speed at which the clutch enters
and leaves engagement—depending upon
the engine revs, and the road speed of
the car. Although the value of this
device (except when used by a nervous
driver for the purpose of restarting on
MOTORIMPRESSIONS—The Lady Driver.
steep grades and in difficult traffic con-
ditions) is open to debate, no serious
harm can be done to the clutch faces by
its use.
Heavy-footed drivers usually develop
bad habits in operating accelerator and
brake controls. Most drivers are prone
to believe that the chief use for the
accelerator pedal is that it be depressed
sufficiently to attain a desired road speed.
Although this is so, there are many
factors contributing to economy and to
comfort that should be given considera-
tion.
It is common knowledge that in the
hands of different drivers an identical
car, over a given course, may show a
wide divergence in its fuel consumption.
Should this be analysed, it will be found
to be due either to the incorrect use of
the accelerator pedal or to maintaining
too high a road speed.
Fuel Waste.
Correct foot-throttle operation is a
habit easily and successfully cultivated
once the principles involved are known.
With the modern down-draught type of
carburettor particularly, the driver must
avoid violent stabbing at the accelerator
pedal, either when starting or accelerating
on the road. As a majority of modern
carburettors are equipped with an accel-
erating pump for the purpose of rapid
pick-up, violent stabbing causes an excess
of petrol to be injected into the intake
manifold, resulting in waste of fuel. The
correct method requires that, once the car
has reached the desired touring speed,
the throttle pedal should be steadily
eased back until the road speed is just
held, the slightest further retard causing
a drop in speed. Driving in this way, a
motorist will find that his car’s petrol
consumption over a period will decline
by as much as 10 p.c. ; that the likeli-
hood of carbon formation in the com-
bustion chamber, the fouling of plugs
and of dilution of the crankcase oil will
each be considerably reduced.
The following figures, obtained by care-
ful testing, explain the influence of speed
upon economy: Driving at a steady
30 m.p.h., the fuel consumption of the car
under test was 22.6 m.p.g.; at 40 m.p.h.,
21 m.p.g.; at 50 m.p.h., 18 m.p.g.; at
60 m.p.h., 12 m.p.g.; and at the maxi-
mum, approaching 80 m.p.h., petrol con-
sumption fell to 9.6 m.p.g. As similar
ratio of wear takes place in the tyre
equipment at these speeds, it is clear that
the motorist pays dearly for high speed.
Brake application is in a somewhat
similar category to that of throttle opera-
tion. Both, apparently, are absurdly
simple, yet in each case very much better
results accrue from careful habits.
Emergency Stops.
The purpose of the brake pedal is, of
course, to stop the car. But making an
emergency stop by a fierce application
of the brake pedal, causing the locking
and skidding of all four wheels, is
neither the best nor the most efficient
method. Certainly it is the most costly.
Maximum braking efficiency is obtained
immediately before the road wheels lock,
and, although this varies because of
different road surfaces and the condition
of the lyre tread, a skilful driver can so
operate the brake pedal as to secure
almost an ideal performance. Remem-
bering that in making an emergency stop
inches are often valuable, the necessity
for study in this department is obvious.
In the last few years reliability in cars
has increased to such an extent that
breakdowns of a major nature are now
few. Unfortunately, this condition has
lulled a number of motorists into a sense
of false security. They take too much
for granted.
In older models, experienced drivers
cultivated the habit of consulting their
dashboard instruments at regular and fre-
quent intervals: to-day, few bother. Ad-
mittedly, cars are driven great mileages
without developing a major fault; but
the fact remains-that, should the habit
of consulting the ammeter, oil-pressure
gauge and water-temperature indicator
be cultivated, those cases in which serious
engine defects have developed might con-
ceivably have been avqided.
Looking for Trouble.
Every driver should understand that
his oil-pressure gauge should, immedi-
ately upon warming up, show some set
pressure on the dial and remain in that
fixed position until the motor is stopped.
As the car gets older, any considerable
drop in pressure proves conclusively
that either crankshaft or main bearings,
or both, have been worn to such an ex-
tent that an overhaul is essential if further
trouble is to be avoided. Efficient lubri-
cation is necessary if a long life and
trouble-free service are desired. Any
failure of the system, even though it may
be confined to one bearing, will be suffi-
cient in many cases to wreck the motor
completely. Again the oil-pressure gauge
acts as an invaluable telltale when one
of the smaller feed pipes fractures in the
sump. It is revealed immediately by the
erratic manner in which the hand on the
oil gauge behaves.
Many instances have been observed
in which the lubricating system functions
perfectly while a straight course is main-
tained or when turning a corner in one
direction, but an immediate lowering
of pressure is shown when the car is
steered around a corner in the opposite
direction. This is clear proof of the frac-
ture of one of the submerged oil pipes.
If discovered early it will cause no
damage ; if, owing to failure of the driver
to consult his instruments, it is not
noticed, it will result in serious
mechanical trouble.
Profit and Loss.
So far as the ammeter is concerned, it
should be regarded as the profit and loss
account of the electrical system. With
all electrical units in operation, it should,
at a normal road speed, show a slight
charge after providing the necessary cur-
rent for the units. Carelessness on the
part of the operator in failing to watch
the ammeter at regular intervals will
almost invariably result in the ruin of
the battery. In cold weather this fre-
quently places the driver in the embar-
rassing position of failing to get the
engine to start in the morning. More
serious still is the case of a “short” in
some part of the electrical system. This
is immediately revealed by the indicator
needle moving to the discharge side with-
out any of the electrical units being in
use. Where the wiring system is ade-
quately provided with fuses, the defective
unit or units are at once thrown out of
commission when the “short” becomes of
sufficient magnitude to blow the fuse. In
a number of other instances where this
provision is not made, a “short,” if un-
attended, may either destroy one of the
units or, in extreme cases, cause fire.
The cooling systems of later-type cars
are generally so effective that the tem-
perature of the water seldom reaches


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
m
★pat.
APPL’D.
FOR
A CLOCK WITHOUT
A DIAL IS LIKE...
A PEN WITHOUT A
.WORD
GAUGE
The CONKLIN
Nozac W ord
Gauge Pen
Tells the writer at a
glance about how
many words he has
written and how many
more he can write
without refilling the
pen.
It is the only sackless
pen that is filled by
the positive mechanical
action of a new filling
device that Winds
Like a Watch."
Regular Size 30/-
Models write over
5000 words and the
large size, 40/-, over
7000 words.
Available in Black,
Red Pearl and Green
Pearl.
Pencils to Match at
25/-
From all Stationers,
Jewellers and Depart-
mental Stores.
FRED BERRY’S .
MOTOR
MANUAL
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, 0/0 FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
A
ASK FOR Gmjumi
OUFOR
THE VALVE I HAT
STANDS UP ■ ■
TO ensure lasting satisfaction from
" the engine valves you buy,
always specify genuine Dufor.
Genuine Dufor Valves "stand up"
to the most gruelling conditions
and are equal in every respect to
original factory equipment. Every
genuine Dufor Product is branded
.... a guarantee of efficiency and
long life!
Genuine Dufor Valves in both
Silchrome (for exhaust). Alloy
(for inlet) are available in a com-
plete range for every type of auto-
motive vehicle, from all leading
automotive accessory houses
throughout Australia and New
Zealand.
A y SIR AIIA N RtPIAtEMENT PARIS
DULY I HANSFORD LTD
[HAWKINS
y <
\ 7.. >
OR
' .
DUE
VALVE
CWydi
GUIDES
anything near the danger point. Should,
for any reason, water be lost from the
cooling system, temperature will rapidly
rise and, unless the motor is stopped,
bearings will seize and considerable
damage be done.
In short, if every driver cultivated the
habit of consulting his dashboard instru-
ments the possibility of serious damage
to either the motor or to any accessory
would be remote. Apart from this there
would be the personal satisfaction of
knowing that every unit was working
efficiently.
CHARCOAL GAS V. PETROL.
Producer-gas as a fuel for automobile
engines has been in use for many years.
The drawbacks to its more general appli-
cation are the bulk and weight of the
generator unit plus a lack of authorita-
tive data upon performances and cost.
Recently, however, a producer-gas unit,
invented by Prof. Ferrugafi, was installed
on a super-charged
Alfa Romeo.
Under the official
supervision of the
Italian Royal Auto
Club and the
National Italian
Council for Re-
search, it made a
3700-mile Rome-
London - Rome
journey run ning
entirely on char-
coal gas.
Before starting
from Rome the
engine, gas - pro-
ducer and other
parts of the car
An “ Autocar ” impression of the charcoal-gas unit fitted
to the supercharged Alfa Romeo.
were checked and sealed in order that
precise data as to fuel consumption, oil
and water, engine wear and other infor-
mation could be obtained.
Although a detailed description of the
new unit is not available, “Autocar” ex-
perts state that the producer unit is in-
stalled at the rear beside the charcoal-
fuel. container, and that the gas is sup-
plied to the engine through a super-
charger. Cold starting is secured by
means of an electrically-operated fan,
driven from the battery,
The charcoal used requires approxi-
mately 2\ times greater storage space
than the equivalent of petrol, but there
is a saving in weight. On a mileage basis.
one kilogram of charcoal is equivalent
to one litre of petrol.
addi , ion , 0 jts obyious economy ,
*ere are many theoretical advantages
over hqmd fuels. It leaves no residue,
hums completely m the combustion
chamber, and provides equal engine next-
bility to petrol-air mixtures. Because
considerably higher compression ratios
are possible, the maximum power output
should, at least, be equal. Producer-gas
does not dissolve lubricating oil, so the
consumption of oil should be less than in
petrol-operated motors. Charcoal is non-
inflammable and will not explode, while
it can be produced in unlimited quanti-
ties in ail countries.
A comparison of operating costs shows
that on the test the Alfa Romeo con-
sumed approx. 20cwt. of charcoal, total
cost being 365., while 260ga1. of petrol,
costing, say, £2O, would have been
needed for the trip.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
V. (Baan Baa, N.S.W.). — Would it be
possible to drive some sort of a water pump
from the engine of a Model A utility for the
purposes of filling a lank carried at the back
and forcing water from tank through fire hose ?
Prepared to spend up to a fiver if it can be
done.
Not with existing equipment, the water pump
being an impeller in the circulating system;
consequently, it would not force water as
you desire. Alternative: Procure a second-
hand rotary pump, and drive it by chain and
sprocket from crankshaft. The motor has
ample reserve power for the purpose.
v * * *
W. (Dalton, N.S.W.). — Which of the
five cars named will be most reliable and
economical to run over all conditions of roads
and bush tracks ? '
Equally reliable. Refer to Bulletin reviews
of each car for comparison of ground clear-
ance and steering lock.
* >;■ * *
J.E.G. (Walcha, N.S.W.).— Since my car
was rebored and high-compression cylinder
head fitted, 1 cannot advance the ignition
more than 1 in. before top dead-centre without
motor knocking. Could 1 get more power if
I raised the head until ignition could be set
at 1 iin. ? Using Ethyl fuel.
No. In a “hotted-up” motor such as you
describe, you can’t have good top-gear pulling
at low. speeds and a high maximum. Knocking
should disappear after the 2000 r.p.m. mark;
if it does not there is something wrong with
head design, or compression ratio is so high
that a benzol-petrol mixture or alcohol fuel
will be necessary for maximum efficiency. In-
serting a thick gasket to lift the head will
lower compression ratio and spoil acceleration
and speed performance, although eliminating
knocking and improving slow pulling.
* * * *
J.W.A. (Auburn, .Vic.). — Mention was made
(B. 18/9/’35) of a tyre-regrooving process.
Can you let me have further particulars ?
Write Advanx Tyre Repair Co., William-
street, Sydney, or apply Melbourne branch.
* * * *
W. and W. (las.). — A two-ton 1 1-passenger
bus is giving a lot of trouble through wheel
wobble. Cured by putting wedges under front
spring anchorages, but now front tyres cut out
rapidly. Would wedges under rear springs
remedy this defect ?
Impossible to say until tried out; probably
not. Only certain remedy would be to check
up front-end geometry on a suitable machine,
and compare with maker's specification.
* * >:< *
P.MeG. (Maxwclton, Q.). — Recently pur-
chased a new Nash Six 400. (1) What is the
correct brand of Mobiloil to use', and what
petrol consumption should J yet ? (2) Has the
car been taken over the Bulletin test ? (3)
/ am yetting only 15 m.p.g. from my ’34
utility. Service station has checked the motor
over without improvement. Any suggestions ?
(1) Mobiloil A. Fuel consumption 17-18
m.p.g. (2) No. (3) Fuel consumption is fair
for truck. Much depends on driving methods.
{Continued on page 28.)


Reduce Harvesting Costs—
Increase Profits . ..
with a FORDSON
rj*
zj.
j
m
... L
LOW COST POWER:
14 H.P. at Drawbar—26 H.P. on Bet.
(Tests by Mr, E.J.C.Rennie, Melb. University)
The pneumatic-tyred English Fordson has
proved its ability to reduce costs of primary
production. That is why it is establishing
new sales records. This unit is adaptable to
all classes of ploughing and harvesting . . ,
its high top gear ensures quick transport of
5-6 ton loads. You can buy Fordson on
easy terms spread to suit your convenience.
Features of the English Fordson :
CLUTCH PULLEY . . . POWER TAKE-OFF
(Optional at Extra Cost) . . . GOVERNOR
•W
w
CONTROL . . . “ HOT - SPOT ” VAPORISER
- - . HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION . . .
COU NTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
. . . SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM
. . . CRANKCASE VENTILATION.
U*
Fordsoiv
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
New South Wales :
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania;
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vie.
South Australia: ADELAIDE CAR
& TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Western
LTD.,
Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
Hay Street, Perth.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. Incorporated in Victoria)
F.28.18.T
FORDSON PRICE HAS BEEN REDUCEILf
.... “ALWAYS
Simoniz a New Car”
The New Kleener makes SIMON/ZING easier than ever.
FOR SUPERLATIVE
SERVICE CHOOSE
Olympic
aSmm
ill
bH
/
■iiHM
■:y
mfil itTTiU
g«Lm U ;
They Grip!
They Hold!
They Last!
Over all kinds of Roads •
Refit with
OLYMPIC TYRES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA—
for Australian conditionst
PROVED IN AUSTRALIA—
by Australian Drivers I
MANUFACTURED BY—
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
CLuAtwUxxju^
They cost no more to buy
. . . . far less to use!
Available leading Garages,
Tyre Dealers and Service
Stations throughout Australia
-'GUARD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivop' Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather ease free with each razor.
XHE PIiUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin. and fin.
blades, 3 6 post free.
CRAIG & AIXKEX, 654 George Street, Sydney.
F.C.A. (New Lambton, N.S.W.). — I recently
“blew" the ignition coil of my Ford A ’29
model. (1) What caused the failure ? (2)
Would ignition advanced too far be one of the
causes ? (3) Is it possible to effect a tem-
porary repair to a coil in order to get home ?
(4) What is the best method of taking up slack
in steering gear con. rods —slack is in ball
joints and not in box?
(1) Coils fail usually because ignition switch
is left on without motor running for long
periods; a partial short in secondary winding
or through spark-plug gaps being set too wide.
(2) No. (3) Possible, but not practicable with-
out suitable gear and highly specialised electri-
cal knowledge. (4) Inspect ball-joint assembly,
which is adjustable, and see if spring is broken.
If so, new spring will cure trouble. If slack-
ness is due to excess wear, arm and cup will
need renewing.
* * * «
J.R. (Gordonvale, N.Q.). — Can you refer
me to a book giving full details regarding
repairs and replacements for Model A Ford ?
Supplement to Dyke’s Cyclopedia. Write
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., for details and
cost.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Penknife”; A traveller in a Model T
Ford broke a front radius rod when
about 150 miles from Cunnamulla (Q.),
There was nobody within miles; but a
new rod, fashioned from a length of
mulga, stood up to the distance in fine
style, over pretty rough roads.
jjt * * ;|e
“Coil Cure”: I was stranded on a
little-used road, the h.t. coil on my Dodge
Six having.ceased to function. When a
Model T Ford appeared the driver, indi-
cating his coil box, said “Try one of
these. We did; screwed the points
tightly together and made the necessary
connections with some insulated wires,
which, in the absence of solder, were
tied tightly to terminals with string. I
arrived home on six, the motor work-
ing splendidly. The Ford chugged
behind on three. Any who may fry it
should keep the motor revving, as the
heavy flow of current through the pri-
mary is detrimental to insulation.
“Athanasius”: Those who use M.L.’s
highways are liable to run foul of the
Law for other things than speeding or
negligent driving. At the instruction of
the local body which employed him, a
man began to drive a motor road-grader
from'Christchurch to Blenheim. He left
on a Wednesday, and on Sunday was still
“on the way.” That was his mistake.
Officialdom haled him before the beak
for working on a Sunday. He was con-
victed without penalty.
* * <= *
“Krashit”; Was driving a 30cwl.
truck from Warragul (Vic.) to Melbourne
when it came to a stop, the petrol-pipe
having broken clean in two about 6in.
back from the carburettor. Hadn't a
thing to fix it, and looked like doing a
hike to the nearest garage when another
truck, loaded, pulled up. At first, he
couldn’t help ; then he pulled a potato
from the load, ran both ends of the
broken pipe into it until they met, un-
screwed theqoint at the carby., blew the
piece of potato out and screwed it up
again. The device carried me to Dande-
nong and repairs.
* *
"Darken”: Our supply of Shaler
patches was exhausted. All we had was
a piece of ordinary patching, but no
solution. My mate cut a bit off this,
placed on top of it a used disc that holds
the vShaler heating agent and clamped
them to the tube. He held his cigarette-
lighter under for about a minute. The
patch took us home.
* * * *
“Malm-Raff”: A series of back-
fires heralded a cracked distributor head.
I had a small bottle of shellac in the
tool-kit, so 1 scraped the crack with a
needle (always carried with some thread
in the band of my hat), and covered it
with shellac. I am still using the “head.”
“Horse Grenadier”: No need to go
to Wolfe’s campaigns (B. 23/10/’35) for
evidence that British armies used to
carry their women round with them, as
the Abyssinians are doing to-day. Even
nowadays every regiment leaving Eng-
land lor India or other overseas garrisons
lakes its complement of wives and chil-
dren. Of course, they stay behind when
campaigning is on, but in the times of
the Peninsula and the Mutiny they
trekked after the old man almost up to
the firing-line. The outstanding example
of the unwisdom of this was in Afghani-
stan in 1848. Shere Ali gave the British
force at Kabul safe conduct out of the
country, but it was ambushed with its
train of women and huge camp follow-
ing of natives. Of the men, all were
butchered save one doctor, who got to
Jelalabad to report the disaster. The
youngest of the women and the children
were transferred to Afghan harems,
where most of them preferred to hide
themselves when the avenging hosts
came back.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Brisbane City Council is
plugging away at the war on the mos-
quito ; but in spite of the spreading of
1152 gallons of oil on tanks, drains and
channels in a month, the insect still hums.
It seems to me that it might be much
easier to prohibit people—and councils—
from having tanks and drains which are
accessible to larvte. But this would put
a lot of earnest people out of jobs. I
have been iq a good many tropic towns
much less advanced than Brisbane where
they seem to do without watery excres-
cences, and relatively without the mos-
quito, but as yet our aldermen do not
seem to have heard that such things are
possible. Anyway, over such a wide area
as this city covers, it is improbable that
anything effective will be done by mere
destruction unless it can be worked on
a much larger scale than at present. A
few hundred miles of rainwater gutter-
ing round the bungalows alone assure
permanence for the pest.


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N, S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bang offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
5!
ES
mm
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
S&JUTS 2SS
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as vour own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Retired mining engineer would like to give
his files of mining data to a genuine young
engineer.—9064.
Young man (32), N.S.W., secretary and
accountant, exp. in court procedure, time pay-
ment, staff control and general organisation,
desires position as credit managei. 90.0.
Wanted partner with some cash to get out
100 tons wattle bark 15 miles from South Coast
(N S W.) wharf. Have 30cwt. motor-truck.
9080.
Present address of American Fur Co., for-
merly at 661 George-street, Sydney.
To buy a copy of Ossian’s poems.—9061.
Information Sought.
(1) Addresses of film studios in N.S.W. ? (2)
Any working at present ? (3) Opportunities
of obtaining employment ? —BBB5.
Cinesound Productions, Ebley-strcet, Waver-
ley; Expeditionary Films, 12 O'Conncll-strect;
Film Players Corporation, 396 George-strcet;
Mastercraft Films, Fig Tree, Lane Cove River;
National Studios, Pagewood; Beaumont Smith
Productions, c/o J. C. Williamson, 80 Market-
street ; Centralian Film Productions, 28
Martin-place; Invicta Productions, 214 Pitt-
street ; and McDonagh Film Productions, 28
Martin-place—all Sydney. (2) Expeditionary
Films for one; other concerns have produc-
tions under consideration. (3) Not good at
the moment.
* * * *
Some time ago my gas meter stopped regis-
tering. The gas co. “took an average” of the
gas consumption, and based its charge on this
formula. The account for that period was
much in excess of that for any other similar
period before or after. Is this procedure
legal ?— 8989.
The course taken is the one legally provided
in N.S.W., but you should get a rebate if
you show, that the amount arrived at was
excessive.
* * * *
Are there any competitions in connection
with the 1936 N.S.W. Anzac Day festival?-
9104.
Yes, the committee arranges competitions
each year. This year the closing date is
November 30, and the sections include: Anzac
poem, suitable for recitation; words of Anzac
Day song; one-act play, to last about 20
minutes (winning play produced at Anzac-eve
festival); Pilgrim Theatre play, to last about
20 minutes, suitable for out-of-door perform-
ance on a caravan with a curtain; Anzac story,
2000 to 3000 words; design for programme
cover, two or three colors, for Anzac-eve festi-
val, size 9in. by sJin.; design for bookplate
for Anzac festival committee; wood- or lino-
cuts, suitable for bookplate. Details of con-
ditions, prizes and entry fees are obtainable
from secretary, Anzac Festival Committee, Scot
Chambers, Hosking-place, Sydney.
* * * *
' Can you tell me anything about Dajos Bela,
orchestra conductor, often heard on European
gramophone records ? —8651.
He is believed to be a Hungarian by birth,
and until the commencement of the present
regime in Germany played in Berlin cafes.
He is now living in France, but a short time
ago made a successful tour of Britain. The
Parlophone Co., 102 Clerkenwell-road, London,
E.C.I, could give more detailed information.
* * * *
(1) Are there any prospects of being taken
on as deck hand or apprentice on any of the
sailing vessels loading wheat and wool at Adel-
aide ? (2) What are the fares by rail and sea
to that city from Sydney ? (3) What boats are
due, and from whom could further advice be
obtained ? —8929.
(1) There are usually openings for appren-
tices, on the usual terms, a premium of £3O
(Eng.) for the voyage to England, or £5O (Eng.)
for the round trip back to Australia. For the
single voyage the applicant must have the
qualifications to obtain a permit to remain in
England (friends to receive him or sufficient
means to support himself)- For the round
voyage the apprentice may stand by the ship
until the return the following season. Appren-
tices work and mess with the crew. Occasion-
ally there are opportunities of a berth as a
passage-worker where, on the eve of sailing,
a ship happens to be short of crew, and eligible
men are taken on to work their passage with-
out wages, but they are rare. Full-fare pas-
sengers are carried by some of the ships, like
the Herzogin Cecile and the Pamir, which
are equipped for the purpose. The fare is
10s. per day; £5O is deposited on joining, and
adjustments made at the end of the voyage.
(2) Boat, £7 first, £4 10s. second; train, £6 ss.
and £4 3s. (3) The fleet have now all sailed.
The Ponape, Pamir, Archibald Russell, Herzo-
gin Cecile, Killoran, L’Avenir, Lawhill, Olive-
bank, Penang, Pommern, Viking and Winter-
hude -a:e due between the middle of December
and mid-January. Crosby, Mann and Co., 28
Franklin-street, Adelaide, can give information.
* * * *
What is the early history of the Labor party
in Queensland ? —8909.
The first attempt to secure representation
for Labor was made in 1886, when Gallo-
way stood at a by-election for Fortitude Valley.
He got 111 votes. At the elections of
1888 four Labor candidates ran, but got only
1261 votes among them; Tom Glasscy,
however, who had been elected as a sup-
porter of the Griffith Ministry, declared him-
self a Labor member, and was joined by
J. P. Hoolan. In 1892 T. J. Ryan and G. J.
Hall were elected on the Labor platform, and
these four formed the first distinct Labor party
in the House. At the elections in May, 1893,
16 Labor members were returned, among them
Andrew Fisher, Charles McDonald and Ander-
son Dawson. In March, 1896, Labor won -0
of the 72 seats, and in 1899 23. In Novem-
ber, 1899, the Dickson Government resigned,
and Anderson Dawson formed the first
Labor Ministry in the world. Dawson was
Premier and Chief Sec.; C. B. Fitzgerald,
Attorney-General; Henry Turley, Home Secie-
tary; William Kidston, Treasurer and Post-
master-General; W. H. Browne, Minister loi
Mines and Public Instruction; H. F. Hard-
acre, Minister for Lands and Agriculture; and
Fisher, Minister for Railways and I übhc
Works. The Ministry was defeated after an
existence of only seven days.
* * * *
What are the following leathers made from:
(1) Patent leather, (2) glace kid, (3) nevis kid.
(4) bramble calf, (5) thicket calf. (6) chameleon
calf, (7) zug, (8) willow calf, (9) box calf, (10)
bovine, (11) suede, (12) nubuck, (13) morocco.
(14) box hide, (15) mineral kip, (16) yearling?
—8774.
(1) Cow or horse hides. (2) and (3) Goat
skins. (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) Call. (10)
Cow hides. (11) and (12) All skins. (13)
Goat skins usually. (14) and (15) Cow hides.
(16) Hides from young cows or oxen.
* * * *
(1) Definition of nineteenth-century vehicles,
barouche, phaeton, curricle, chaise and open
carriage ? (2) Are they still being manufac-
tured ? —B9Ol.
The barouche was a low : bodicd, roomy,
open carriage, four-wheeled, with an adjustable
hood and a high driving seat behind built to
carry two —coachman and footman; it would
accommodate four to six persons, the seats
facing one another inside. There were end-
less varieties of phictons, the name being given
to almost any open four-wheeled carriage cap-
able of carrying four persons; it usually had
a folding leather hood, and was drawn by one
or two horses. The chaise was a light two- or
four-wheeled carriage with movable hood, a
post-chaise being a fast-travelling, closed four-
wheeled conveyance, with one seat to hold two
persons, and sometimes a rumble seat at back;
otherwise the driver rode postillion. It was
drawn by two or four horses. A curricle was
two-wheeled, with a pole, and drawn by two
horses. An “open carriage” was simply a
coach in design, having seats for four inside,
but with a folding hood. (2) A coachbuilder
might make them to order.
* * * *
How can I make whitewash that will not
wash or peel off a rough-cast house ? —9024.
Two pecks unslaked lime, 1 peck common
salt, 31b. rice flour, Jjlb. whiting, lib. clean
white glue, sufficient water for working up.
Slake the lime in a vessel of about 10 gallons
capacity; cover it, strain, and add the salt
previously dissolved in hot water. Boil the,
rice flour to a paste in water, soak the glue in
water and dissolve over water on a fire;
add these to the lime, together with the whit-
ing and 5 gallons of hot water. Stir well
together. Cover to protect from dirt, and let
stand for a few days, when the whitewash will
be ready for use. It is applied hot, and should
be kept hot over a portable furnace.
* * * *
How can I make ice-cream ? I have a
household refrigerator. —BBB 7.
One quart milk, 3 dessertspoons cornflour,
4 teaspoons vanilla essence (if liked), £lb.
sugar, 2 eggs, -j-pint cream. Beat eggs and
sugar together, add the cornflour, then the
heated milk gradually. Cook over water or
by standing the container in a saucepan of
water, and stir until it thickens. Repiove and
allow to cool, then add the essence and
whipped cream, and place in the refrigerator
to freeze. Can be tinted pink with a drop or
two of cochineal, green with a little spinach
juice, or chocolate with cocoa added to the
cornflour. Nuts or fruits may be added.
Serve with wafer biscuits.
* * * *
What does the crest bearing a lamb carrying
a flag denote ? How far hack does it dale ?
Any other particulars ? Also a translation of
the motto “Palma non sine pulvere” ? —BBBl.
The badge of the Knights Templars was the
paschal or holy lamb of the Passover, repre-
sented as carrying a pennon bearing a cross,.
and this seems to have been the first instance
of the use of this symbol in heraldry. Later
it appears in various forms in certain crests
and coats of arms, often with ecclesiastical
associations, although in some cases it is
merely a punning allusion to the name, or
portion of the name, of the family using it.
The motto, in English, “The palm, not with-
out wrestling for it,” is borne by more than
one branch of the Lamb family, also by the
families of Archibald, Doughty and Jenkinson.
* * * *
Recipe for colored sealing wax ? 1 have been
using paraffin wax, resin and painters’ colors,
but find that this is not very successful. —8734.
Standard formula: are: —Red wax: Take 41b.
shellac, lib. Venice turpentine and 31b. ver-
milion. Melt the lac in a copper pan over
a clear fire, add the turpentine slowly, stirring
all the time, then add the vermilion, stirring
briskly. Blue wax: 3oz. Venice turpentine,
4oz. shellac, loz. resin, loz. Prussian blue,
magnesia. Green wax: 2oz. Venice turpentine,
4oz. shellac, l|oz. resin, chrome yellow.
£oz. Prussian blue, loz. magnesia. In all
cases common turpentine may be used. Mix
the coloring matter to a paste with turps be-
fore adding to the other ingredients; unless
this is done the wax will not be regular in tint.
The turpentine and resin must be heated before
the shellac is added, otherwise the shellac sinks
to the bottom, sticks and burns.
* * * *
What preparation can I apply to leather up-
holstery to bring back the life to it after it has
cracked and perished ? —8766.
You cannot restore life to perished leather.
To improve its appearance, clean with a mix-
ture of equal parts of vinegar and olive oil,
shaken together and applied with a flannel.
Then go over the worn parts with olive oil
containing a few grains of Gondy’s crystals to
give it a brown tint. Rub in very sparingly
until you are sure of the tint and how it takes,
as qualities of leather differ and take tints
varyingly. Rub it all dry and clean, then give
the whole a good polishing with a white or
brown shoe cream, applied with a clean flannel,
and polished with silk.
* * * *
Are Michaelmas daisies improved by annual
division ? When should the work be done ?
—8784.
Yes. Divide the clumps and replant strong,
well-rooted sections carrying green top-growth.
Enrich the soil with plenty of rotted manure,
and before planting raise the soil in the centre
of the holes to force the roots to go down-
ward. The clumps can be divided up to the
end'of November, but the earlier the work is
done the better.
* * >l= *
How to get rid of docks and dandelions
from a couch-grass lawn without defacing the
lawn by digging ? —BBO7.
Put a few drops of kerosene or petrol on the
stem base on the weeds. Do not splash the
fluid about or it will kill the grass. Top-
dressing with sand to which is added a little
sulphate of ammonia will help the grass to
spread over the treated lawn.
* * * *
My aspidistras are covered with a shield-like
pest, and the leaves are browned and dying.
Cause and remedy? —BBl4.
The pest is mealy bug, which infests many
leaf-plants. Dab the “shields” with methylated
spirit, and a week later wash the leaves with
thin starch. Badly-affected leaves must be cut
off and burnt and the plants helped with
rotted cow manure. Repotted aspidistras
should be kept in a semi-shaded position to
force early leaf-growth.
* * * *
How to make charcoal for use in pot plants;
also, how to store it? —BB7l.
First make holes in the side of a tin for
air, then place short pieces of wood in it and
cover with a lid. Keep a fire going under
the tin until the wood is carbonised, and
when cool break into small pieces. Charcoal
stored in a dry shed or room will keep in-
definitely.
* * * *
How to grow water-lilies in a fishpond the
inside of which is of very smooth cement ?
Are these plants harmful to fish ? —8990.
Make stoutly-built cement boxes with drain-
age holes, fill with heavy, muddy soil, and
plant the water-lily crowns in them. Sink the
containers in the fishpond, allowing at least
12in. of water above the crowns. The soil
will need renewing from time to time. Avoid
earth containing lime, chemical fertilisers or
new manures, and the fish will not be harmed.
* * * *
Full particulars about growing gladioli on a
commercial scale ? —9038.
Make narrow beds (about 2ft. wide), which
will carry two rows of bulbs and enable the
gladioli to be easily tended, and fill them with
sandy loam, enriched with rotted stable manure.
Where heavy soil is used, add a helping of
sand. Set the bulbs 4in. deep, and stake the
plants so that the blooms will not be damaged
by water or wind. Lime worked into the beds
at preparation-time is a help. Where manures
are unobtainable, use equal parts of bonedust
and superphosphate (loz. to sq. yd.). Keep it
away from bulbs when planting. Liquid cow
manure should be applied once a week when
the flower sheath begins to show. It is
advisable to interview florists and ascertain
colors most salable before planting. Scab
sometimes affects the bulbs where fresh manure
is used, to kill which dip the bulbs in a solu-
tion of i-pint formalin, 8 gallons water. Where
snails are troublesome and destroy the tips of
the flowers, sprinkle the beds and the foliage
of the gladioli with equal parts of lime and
tobacco-dust.
* * * *
A reliable poison for snails and slugs ? Is
it true that even after snails are crushed the
eggs have a good chance of hatching ? —9035.
Baits of arsenate of calcium or arsenate of
lead and bran placed along fences are effec-
tive. Be careful to keep them away from
pets. Tobacco-dust and lime dusted at night
will also get rid of them. Snails gathered
should be thrown into a tin containing salt and
water. Snail-eggs (white globules like sago) in
an advanced stage will often hatch unless
thoroughly crushed. Sprinkling with lime is the
best way to deal with them.
* * * *
Recipe for soft soap? —9021.
You can make it by shaving up Sunlight or
similar soap, adding a little glycerine, and
heating over a fire to a liquid mass, but the
job is tedious; a much better soft soap can be
bought retail at less cost.
* * * *
How can I fake gold writing off polished
veneer without scratching ? —8998.
Almost impossible to do it without some
injury to the surface. Try rubbing with kero-
sene on a soft rag. If that won’t shift it,
mix together equal parts of turpentine and
ammonia in a bottle and shake until it becomes
milky Apply with a brush, and scrape
off gently with a thin piece of wood. Re-
peated applications may be necessary, and the
surface is almost sure to become dimmed.
Brief Answers.
E.M.: Under the N.S.W. Returned Soldiers
and Sailors’ Employment Act, .1919, the right
to preference is reserved to men who saw active
service 5.8.; The present worth of £583
due 12 months hence, interest at 6 p.c. p.a.,
is £550 A.E.R.: There are no doctors’ clubs
in N.S.W.; the only societies providing medical
benefits are friendly societies and mining
lodges. In both cases the terms of agreement
provide for medical attendance to husband,
wife and children under the age of 16....
A.P.J.: The retiring age limit of 65 applies to
all public servants, but the Public Service
Board may continue the period of service
beyond that age in certain special cases.
A.F.: Coonardoo was published by Jona-
than Cape, London, at 7s. 6d. Any large
booksellers may have copies in stock
R. 5.8.; Try painting the bushes with a solu-
tion of bitter aloes E.C.: Sec the Aus-
tralian Authors and Artists’ Handbook....
M. 8.: The subject is too complicated to be
answered here. How to Make Good Pictures
(2s. 9d.) and Belter Photographs in Spring,
Summer, Autumn and Winter (3s. 6d.), obtain-
able from any bookshop, discuss the question
fully... .G.A. (W.A.); Windmills and Wind
Motors, by F. E. Powell (Is. sd. posted,
from Walthcr and Stevenson, 395 Gcorgc-streel,
Sydney), contains designs of 6ft. and 10ft.
windmills V.H.: (1) The company which
played “White Cargo” at Sydney Theatre Royal
in Nov., 1928, consisted of Leon Gordon,
C. M. Hallard, N. B. Lcwin, F. Bradley, J.
Fernside, L. Hodgson, B. Barton, J. D’Arcy,
L. King and Miss M. Collins. (2) Ben Lcwin.
. ...G.H.D.: The employee’s remedy is an
action against his employer under the Workers’
Compensation Act. It is the employer who
insures, and he looks to the insurance com-
Eany to compensate him to the amount found
y the Court to be due to his employee. Write
to the employer in the first instance, stating
that you have not received the compensation
money. If not then paid, place the matter in
the hands of a solicitor... .F.B.McW.: Come
to Java (about 4s. 6d.) ? published by the Official
Tourist Bureau, Batavia, Van Stockum’s Hand-
book of the Netherlands East Indies (about
95.) and Handbook of the Netherlands and
Overseas Territories, published by the Govern-
ment Printing Office, The Hague (about 75.).
are the best. Dymock’s or Angus and Robert-
son may have them, or KoKf and Co., Batavia,
can supply T.H.; No official drug of that
name. Possibly confused with sweet mar-
joram (Origanum majorana), a carminative
aromatic S.Y.: Adhesions arc possible, with
operation involving appendix and gall-bladder;
the trouble usually develops within a year.
Pain after four years suggests stone in hepatic
duct. Examination advised A.N.: Passen-
ger liners travelling from England to Aus-
tralia and Australia to America arc customarily
equipped with a hairdressing saloon. The
usual procedure is for the saloon to be rented
by a qualified hairdresser. So far as vessels
trading between England and Australia are
concerned all appointments are made in Eng-
land E.L.J.: No B. Lambert known;
many others of various initials —no “8”....
R.S.E.: Essence of the term as defined by
Webster is “a connected series or succession,”
particularly applicable to rooms. Description
was therefore correct R.E.: Try W. D.
Searl, 250 a Georgc-street, Malayta Co., Ltd.,
72 King-street, or Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street —all Sydney... .J.P.R.; A N.S.W.
soldiers’ settlement holding may be disposed
of by will, in a manner similar to land held
under other titles. In the event of intestacy,
distribution would be in accordance with the
usual procedure in such matters M.S.: A
sound and up-to-date knowledge of books of
biography, drama, fiction and travel is essen-
tial for a librarian of the sort you indicate.
No examination is necessary. Application by
letter, with copies of testimonials. Can trace
no information regarding Lalique... .E.C.A.:
It does not appear to have been part of the
composition produced by Foote to test the
memory of Charles Macklin, although it is
undoubtedly included in later versions. This
particular piece of nonsense-writing has been
widely quoted; possibly the final sentence was
added later by Foote... .A.T.8.; Originals of
drawings appearing in The Bulletin are offered
for sale. The one you mention has been sold.
....I.McG.: In the event of the Common-
wealth becoming involved in war, applicants for
the Air Force would be considered on their
merits. At present there is no branch of the
R.A.A.F. in Queensland. Other information
posted... .R.T.N.; (1) W. C. Penfold and Co.,
88 Pitt-street, or Swain and Co., 123 Pitt-street,
both Sydney. (2) Cable messages were sent
from England, the announcers here adding a
description of the play, garnished with sound
effects, such as the ball hitting the bat and the
applause of spectators T.W.N.: Air trans-
port services in the United States covered a
distance of 27,988 miles in October, 1934.
There were 103 services in operation, 62 carry-
ing mail and 96 passengers... J.S.P.; British,
Belgian, Polish and Japanese soldiers wear
khaki uniforms; those of the United States,
olive drab. German uniforms are field grey;
Spanish, grey; Swiss, Ithlian and Dutch, grey-
green... .A.T.; The Duke of Gloucester rode
in a race at Marton, Maoriland, on January 1
this year; the horse finished fourth... .A.G.D.:
Fully-grown, the male platypus is about 2ft.
long; the female about 19in. The tail is
sin. or 6in. long E.F.W.: The birth-stone
of those born in August is the topaz, betoken-
ing fidelity... .L.S.: It gets its name from the
legend, mentioned by Plato, concerning a vast
continent, Atlantis, situated somewhere beyond
Gibraltar, which “disappeared and was sunk
beneath the sea” J. 8.8.; The knot is a
measure of speed, one knot being a speed of
one nautical mile per hour. A nautical mile is
1.152 statute miles N.K.; The Spanish Main
originally comprised the Caribbean Sea and
that part of the Atlantic plied by Spanish
treasure ships. Later the name embraced the
shores of the Caribbean islands and the near-by
coasts of South and Central America, but nar-
rowed until it is now applied only to the
northern coast of South America between
Panama and the Orinoco (Many others
mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author's Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
hear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter. XIH.
I.
J ESSICA lay quiet that Sunday night and watched
the stars through her window. Her lamp was still
alight, hut her book had dropped on the floor.
She was wondering if it was worth while getting
undressed and trying to get to sleep, but she fell too
restless for bed.
If only there was something to do, somewhere
to go! Anywhere, anything. She felt that she would
scream if she heard Mrs, Dwyer’s calm voice again
like milk falling into a bucket or Mick Dwyer talking
about the time the snake bit at “Irish,” and "Irish'
turned round and bit the snake back again. The
children were dears, but they weren’t really company :
and, as for Bessie, why couldn’t she find something
else to think and talk of but her boys?
“Only natural, I suppose,” Jessica said to herself-
wisely. “After all, she’s young, she’s pretty, she’s
lonely on the farm and wants distraction.”
Her thoughts flitted oddly to Brian Scorby, who
had been paying several visits to Warning Hill lately
and had not failed to greet Miss Daunt with great
courtesy when he met her. She knew that Scorby
rather liked her, and she felt that she detested him.
He was the kind of man who made her feel awkward
and girlish, and she hated to feel awkward and
girlish. In Sydney she had always preferred to
patronise young men, to mother them as though (hey
were members of her pack of Cubs, to have them
adore her from afar and admire her quick wit and
her gaiety. But there was no one here who appreci-
ated gaiety.
It seemed centuries since she had talked to
anybody who appreciated her besides Polly Sorrell.
And she felt that she could not always be visiting
Polly, imposing on her easy hospitality. Besides, it
was a tiring walk to town, and she did not like
going in the Dwyers’ car, because it was such a squash
with all the children ; and she was expected to hold
the baby and help look after it. That baby was one
of the burdens of Jessica’s life. The easy way the
Dwyers took it for granted that she liked babies
dribbling on her dress made life very trying. They
apparently could not imagine a young woman who
did not like babies.
She liked children, Jessica told herself defiantly,
otherwise she would never have chosen to be a
teacher. She liked mothering people and being kind
to them when they were sick or in trouble ; but this
emphasis on young, squally babies gave her the pip!
Lord! To think that, if she did not go into the
department and plead for a move, they might send
her back to this hole next year! She simply couldn’t
stand it. Those ghastly children, the Brennicks! The
boy, fourteen and with a mental age of four; the
girl, quite intelligent, but not even able to spell the
simplest words. Neither of them had been to school
for three years, neither had lived under a roof or
stayed in one town for more than a month since
they left Tiburon years ago. And the way they swore!
She began to compose a letter to Esther Wyld,
her friend in college; “My dear, I thought I had seen
the worst in the child line at the University Settle-
ment, but you have simply no idea what these country
children are like. I have two here who haven’t been
to school for years. They are frightfully poor people
out this way, and some of them move from town
to town in caravans and sulkies looking for work.
A child will appear one week, and, just as you are
beginning to congratulate yourself on teaching the
infant cat-rat-mat, the little brute comes to say good-
bye because Tarver’s got ’is last dole, an’ the p’licem’n
says we gotter move on.’ They stay on an average
a fortnight, and you have no idea how trying it is
and how it disorganises the other children. One
ghastly child 1 have here can't open his mouth with-
out swearing. He simply cannot conceive that anyone
could use a sentence without a ‘damn’ in it!”
But she couldn't be bothered writing to anyone.
She was too bored oven to care whether she left off
breathing. These horrible, dull people! This dull,
horrible town, where nobody worried whether she
lived or died! And she'd thought she would like it
here! She had been so happy, and, now, she hadn’t
even unpacked her paints'
All the little frettings and pinpricks rose up in
her mind like a swarm of angry ants. She was too
miserable to cry. If only she had someone rational
to talk to!
xx/u <■ e ,• • , „ .
What was the use of living, anyway? Sydnev
was offiv i nil 1 *™ 11 Wri -, la rf ; ,hC Wh ° lC W ° rld
a ,? n y n-' ft pr «S ‘"J 1 ?! 1 ,bu ron, a microcosm, a
111 the. bloodstream o the universe. She
bubbles oi stars outside her
window and wondered .1 there were Tiburons going
ulcllc . Ss repetition. What was hburon.
eves muj ?InniS' ICnCC ’ a ° ‘ US ‘° n ' Shc shut hcr
} ' V d ’ c ,
1 am lying in bed in Sydney. 1 have only dreamt
about a miserable, dull place where 1 was in prison
and unhappy. I am not in Tiburon at all. I
dreamt it. „ . , .
"Miss Daunt!” The whisper came from outside
her bedroom window.
“Who is it?” she asked, startled.
“Don’t be scared. It’s only me, Paul.”
“What do you want?” shc said, silting up on
the bed. “Don't make such a noise or you’ll wake
Hosde ■inri (he children ”
uessie ana me cnnaren. .......
Pa i , h , ead sh ° Wed aboVe lhe W,nt,OW ' S,,l 1,1
C a ,-, p ’ . , . t
C ome out for a walk, he said. I couldn tgo
to sleep, and I saw your light.
“Good heavens! No!”
“Come on,” he urged. “You’ve no idea what
it's like out here. I've made up a song. Come on,
an’ I’ll sing it to you.”
Jessica smiled maternally at his pleading look.
“Come out for a walk."
. . ... , u n i u a
■ , Y . ou f, » * el " ble baby > - - sb f f' d 111 , he ',
best school-teacher manner. All right hen. Jus.
lor a few minutes. It is a wonderful night
It might have been different if any other man
had come to her window and called her out. She
would have stayed primly inside, but Paul was only
a farmhand and her protege, and didn’t really count,
In any case, anything, anything to stop lying there
thinking.
“I've got to say something to someone,” Paui
went on. “or I’ll eo off me nut.”
There * seemed to be a change in Paul. He was
usually so reticent, so shy.
“Gee, I feel mad.”' He helped her over the
sill, and they paused a minute.
“How about the top of the Hill?” he suggested,
They moved towards the track, and as they went
he told her about Bill Sorrell.
“There he was, so decent an’ all, an’ ’ardly any-
body there to listen to him except me an’ Denny
an’ Blue an’ a couple of others. They’d all gone off
to the picnic an’ not come back. I felt that mad 1
could ’a’ killed them.”
“Oh. Paul.” She was really touched. “Poor
Brother Bill. I wish I’d been there. Why didn’t
you tell me, Paul, he was holding a service over
h ere 7”
“I didn’t think you cared tuppence what hap-
pened out our way,” Paul said. He had to vent
his rage on someone. “You're that ladylike, that
snobby, you wouldn’t touch a chap who was down
on his luck ; no. not with the toe of y’r shoe.”
“Oh, Paul.” She was really hurt. “Am I as
beastly as that?”
"Now, Bill Sorrell,” he went on unheeding—"he’s
been educated, an’ always used to decent things an
that, an' he talks like you. But he ain't like you. He
don't know the right way to go about helpin’ people,
but he tries in ’is own way.’
“He does.”
“He ain’t standoffish.”
"Paul, stop raging at me like that. Did you just
drag me out so that you could tell me what you
thought of me?”
"Yes,” he said angrily. "Pattin’ me on the head
because I’m a good boy. But you’d kick me like
a dog if it suited you, and I know it. You think
y’ve been studyin’ me, don’t you? You like to
encourage me to make up rhymes so s you can say
That’s splendid, Paul.’” He gave a good imitation
of her voice. ‘“Really, you're too good for this
environment. You should try to get away from it
somewhere where you'd have a chance to exercise
your talents.’ ” He was really angry now. “Think
you been studyin’ me, don't you, Lady Jessica? Did
it ever strike you 1 been studyin' you?”
"Really,” Jessica thought, “this is too fantastic.
I must be dreaming that a farmhand has had the
impertinence to speak like this to me! ’ But she
climbed silently in the dark beside him.
"Well. I have,” Paul raged on. “You make me
sick. ThinkiiT you’re 100 good to live on the earth.
Talkin’ about the artists and writers you know, and
Doctor This and Professor So-and-so. Why, if you
only knew, 1 wouldn’t swap the Warning Hill crowd
for any number of your friends. They’re alive in
the camps down there. They have a rotten time, but
they’re alive orrighl. Don’t worry, they’re just as
snobby as you are. They wouldn’t dream of mixin
with anyone that wasn’t in their own class, Lady
Jessica.”
She stopped, panting for breath, for (he track
wound steeply up from rock to stone and from stone
to slippery grass slope.
“1 wouldn’t want to leave the sort of people I’m
used to,” Paul said, more slowly. “1 like Warning
Hill. I like livin’ ’ere. I like the old man an’ Jim
and Bill and Lizzie and Mary and Ella an’ the kids,
even when I want to belt them with something. If
you were to oiler to change places with me to-morrow
I wouldn’t take it on. Well?” He paused at last.
"Why don’t you say something?”
Jessica laughed breathlessly.
"If you’d change places with me you’d be so
unlucky, Paul. I hale being me just as much as
you’d hate it. All the time you think I’m being
superior it’s only—only a defence. Jt’s that I’m shy
of people, strangers, and uncertain of myself. That
night I called at your home, I —l was nice, wasn’t
I? I tried to be.”
She was like a child asking for encouragement.
"You tried to be.” said Paul., “And they knew
it. But it wasn't Bill Sorrell’s sort of try.”
“You are a disgusting creature. Browser,” she
said softly.
“What did you say?”
“Just what Bill Sorrell would say to me.” He
was disconcerted.
Together they climbed on in silence until they
reached their own special grassy hollow. Jessica sat
down on a rock and clasped her hands round
her knees. Paul flung himself down at her
feet.
“Don’t you think you’d better sit beside
me?” she said quietly. “The grass is damp.”
He got up and sat awkwardly on (he edge
of the rock.
“You’re right,” Jessica said. “I am cheap.
lam trivial. lam selfish.”
“You’re too damn’ good,” he said sul-
lenly, “for a place like this.”
“Why, Paul,” she said half-childishly.
“Tiburon is the whole world ; the whole world
is Tiburon. Wherever you go. you never get
away from it. It’s only little differences of
tone and manner that lie on the surface. Tibu-
ron is everywhere. And it’s those little surface differ-
ences that I have been bothered with all my life. I’m
a surface sort of person. You must help me to get
under the surface of things.”
He was quite lost and rather sullen to think that
she was talking above his head again.
“Look at those stars,” she said. “I was only
thinking when you came to my window that they
were just little Tiburons, each going a different way,
but ending where they began and meeting at the
beginning. Like bubbles rinsing about.”
“Like Lizzie doin’ the washin’,” he suggested.
“Yes. Rinsing away at the darkness that will
never come clean. All those stars washing because
someone or something is stirring them round and
round, stirring us round and round, stirring Tiburon
round and round, so that we are giddy, the stars are
giddy, Tiburon is so giddy that it seems to be standing
still while the world spins past. Paul,” she said
strangely, “suppose you and I are only gods and
Tiburon is something we have dreamed.”
“If it was light,” Paul remarked, “I could throw
a stone that’d land on Mick’s roof and it’d give a
loud sort of clonk, an’ then, when the kids an’ Bessie
came rushin’ out, you’d see if they were dreams.
Specially Bessie, with her curlpins. She’s no dream.”
“For God’s sake,” she said fretfully, “sing me
a song or something. You are the most prosaic boy
1 have ever met.”
“Well, you haven’t met many.”
They were quarrelling now quite naturally and
easily.
“How 7 do you know?”
“Well, you'd know how to treat a bloke better
than you do if you knew as much about boys as I
know about girls.”
“Oh. yes,” Jessica sneered. “Don Juan Paul
White. I seem to have heard a little of your repu-
tation. You quite fancy yourself as a Lothario.”
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tihuron.
The White family — Dave, a useless waster,
and his many sons and daughters—are the chief
of Tihuron’s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives. Uneducated, in the usual
sense of the word, he has an intense love of
poetry.
Blue. Okker Slade and Denny the
Magsman are “travellers,” camped at the un-
employed shelter.
The “respectable” element in the town is
anxious to rid Tihuron of its undesirables.
Sergeant Moore supports the movement
half-heartedly, but Constable Scorby is all
for it.
In last week’s instalment the relief-workers
went on strike, their chief demand being the
right to refuse work if the wages offered were
less than the dole. A Strike Committee was
formed, and soup-kitchens were opened.


“No I don’t. An’ don’t use them long words or
I’ll hit you.”
“Of course, you may be accustomed to treating
your feminine admirers in a manner better befitting
the Neanderthal man, but”
“Well, if it ain’t the Lady Jessica! And ’ow is
’is Lordship! ”
“Paul, if you don’t stop I’ll shake you.”
“Y’ might get y’r ’ands dirty touchin’ a low
feller like me. But, there, you could always go an’
wash afterwards.’
“You rotten, vulgar, beastly” She stopped
angrily. Why was she losing her self-control? Oh.
this was disgraceful! She might be one of the girls
of Tiburon. She might be Bessie. But it seemed as
though she had fretted so long, repressed her feel-
ings so much, that if she did not have some sort
of outlet she would scream and roll on the grass.
She was utterly irrational and desperate.
“After all,” she thought, “I am
only one of the Tiburon girls. I
won’t think I am any better than
they are. I am just a girl sitting
out on a hill with ‘the boy friend’
in the time-honored manner. That
is exactly what I will be. And
if he tries to kiss me I will let him.
Anything, anything to stop being
Jessica Daunt, so homesick and so
many hundreds of miles from
home. Any experience, am
humiliation, rather than this isola-
tion, this terrible loneliness.”
But Paul did not offer to kiss
her. He began to laugh to him-
self. Not mockingly, but with a
kind of happy gurgle.
“Now, what’s wrong with
you?”
“J wondered if I could get you wild "
She half-smiled in the dark. “Well, you suc-
ceeded. I hate being teased.”
“That’s because you’re so stuck up.”
“Now, don’t begin again.”
There was silence for a while. A light wind
came up from the direction of Tiburon, and Jessica
shivered in the cold.
“Would you like to go back?” Paul asked, almost
kindly.
“No. It’s so much better out here.”
“Then have my coat.” He took it oH despite
her protests and wrapped it round her. The comfort-
able male warmth and the smell of tobacco made
her feel cosy.
“You ought to put your arm round my waist
now.” she suggested mischievously, “and then try
to kiss me.”
He grunted. “You must think I’m green.” He
slipped down into the grass again and lay with his
arms beneath his head while he talked of his family,
about people he knew in Tiburon. the soup-kitchen
and Bill Sorrell.
Jessica was not really listening. “But, Paul,”
she said at last, “if you think 1 am such a snob, why
do 1 come out walking with you?”
“Because you think I’m different,” he said ;
“because you think I’m a freak born here, but really
belongin’ to your sort. You wouldn't go out with
Jim, though he’s a damn' sight better than I am.
Anyway,” he added slowly, “you couldn’t go with
Jim because ’e’s keen on someone else.”
“When is he going to marry her?” she said idly.
“He isn’t. She’s married. And if she wasn’t
Jim’s got too much to do lookin’ after the rest of
the family. He wouldn't mind marryin’ her though.
Her husband treats her rotten.”
“Paul.” Jessica could not get away from her
own personal problems. “I’m so miserable 1 almost
wish you would kiss me. Why don’t you?”
“Just so that you could study me some more?
Not on your life. As soon as 1 tried you'd be Ladv
Jessica again, puttin’ me back in the mud where I
belong, whereas if 1 don’t you’ll keep on cornin’ out
with me just so you can really pay me out some
time.”
“Your psychology is excellent.”
She found that she could not talk with him tea
minutes now without wanting to quarrel. They had
broken down some invisible barrier which had hitherto
held them at their best behavior. .She was glad of
the change. She was glad of someone on whom she
could vent her .cantankerous dislike of life. .Squab-
bling with Paul would be a relief from being Miss
Daunt, the lady school-teacher. It would be almost
as good as being gay.
They were looking at the stars, and then Paul
began to sing softly to himself, singing the one line
over and over again.
“A very dreamy sort of song,” she said, yawning.
She was cold, and the whirl of emotion had died
down in her. “Come back to the farm.”
At her window he look back his coat. “The
grass was damp, all right,” he said. “You'll have a
cold to-morrow.”
“1 won't.’’ she said snappily.
“Come out again some night?”
“1 might. Good night.”
“Good night.”
Chapter XIV.
I.
S COR BY, with the easy philosophy of one who
had read of many strikes, rather left the Tiburon
Rural Workers’ and Unemployed Industrial
Committee to look after itself. Sooner or later, he
considered. «the strike was bound to break down
owing to the inveterate habit strikers have of distrust-
ing the men they have elected to look after the funds.
Scorby believed that there had never been a strike
committee whose secretary had escaped the accusa-
tion of embezzling the money of the toilers, and
often, Scorby said, the accusation was justified.
He explained to poor Sergeant Moore, who was
grieved and perplexed by the state of affairs, that
even if the strikers did not split over the money ques-
tion they would ultimately quarrel over questions
of policy, and the disgruntled section would inevit-
ably come “crawling on their hands and knees.”
In the second week of the strike Councillor Mac-
Leary, who owned about a score of the ramshackle
“You quite fancy yourself as a Lothario."
dwellings in which the strikers lived, began to speak
of the need for “adequate measures” and “the dis-
graceful state of affairs which allowed such things
to proceed” (vide “Tiburon Advertiser” report of the
Shire Council meeting).
The strikers had meetings, and their wives ran the
two soup-kitchens for the travellers and the single
men. The wives were still having a wonderful time.
Almost as one woman they wanted the strike to go
on. because they were away for once from the
drudgery of the home, mixing with other women,
without anyone to comment on unswept floors or
undone washing. They had long periods of leisure,
during which they gossiped with the other “helpers”
about those helpers who were absent at the time, and
also discussed Mrs. Willis’s scandalous conduct in
purloining the greater part of those scones sent by
the Methodist Ladies’ Guild,
There was almost a split over the question of
dogs’ meat for the travellers. Most travellers had
dogs. Very often they had more than one; and
while one half of the women were of the opinion that
they “couldn’t let the poor brutes starve, and why
should they when there were scraps about?” the other
half were firm on the point that, while it was all right,
to feed the dogs belonging to the committee, there
were not enough scraps to go round among the travel-
lers’ dogs, and, anyway, they could eat rabbits. Of
course the rabbits were not fit food for human beings,
but there was no reason why the dogs should not
eat them. Rabbit was a food regarded in Tiburon
much as the inhabitants of Jerusalem regarded swine’s
flesh ; and one of Scorby’s worst breaks had been
his careless reference to the fact that there were
plenty of rabbits and no one was likely to starve.
Everything was quite orderly, and might have
stayed so if it had not been for the little habit of
the women's committee of making sarcastic remarks
whenever a policeman passed the Manchester Unity
Hall. They should have remembered that policemen
are- only human beings, and that constant public
obliquy will make any human being resentful. Scorby
spoke to Councillor Mac Leary, who spoke to Arthur
Bowen, with the result that the strikers found they
were refused further hire of the hall, and so were
without any headquarters, which was decidedly incon-
venient.
ine strikers finally managed to secure an old
corn-and-fodder store belonging to George Grant;
but it was in a side street, it had no light for meet-
ings at night, and it was not half as convenient as
far as cooking was concerned. During the removal
of the furniture from the Manchester Unity to the
old store the strike ceased to be orderly, and two of
the strikers went to gaol. There was a great deal
of sympathy for these sufferers in the cause of the
cla%s war; but no policeman likes to be hit over the
head with a bar of soap.
The police had ignored the oration which Denny
had delivered from the step of the Manchester Unity
as the benches and tables streamed past him. That
oration was quite sufficient to raise blisters on less
sensitive skins than those of Sergeant Moore, Scorby
and their allies ; and it showed admirable restraint
on their part that they did not remove Denny also.
He was giving them every chance. But Scorby was
looking for Okker Slade. He was as a dog whose
nose is on the trail of one particular fox; and he
now refused to be diverted into overcrowding the
gaol with lesser offenders. He had his old score to
pay off on Okker, and the thought of anyone else
getting him first nearly spoilt his meals.
Scorby had an intuition that Okker had not
really left Tiburon, but had had the effrontery to
dig himself in in some secluded corner. Scorby was
right. Okker, who had a doglike devotion for Denny,
absolutely refused to leave while the strike was on,
and was living out in the scrub with an old-age pen-
sioner, Allen Martin, who was supposed to be doing a
bit of clearing and fencing for Mrs. Malloy, but was
really just pottering about. Martin welcomed Okker’s
company, and, having a few things he would prefer
the police to forget about himself, saw no objection
to sharing his hut with someone of similar views.
But it was deadly dull for Okker.
The one person who really grieved to miss the
strike was Mrs. Malloy.
“Mother has been simply impossible lately,” her
daughter Bella confided to Mrs. Claufield, who had
returned to Tiburon to stay with Henry Westly and
Olga for the Hospital Ball. “She is not fit to leave
her bed, and she will keep on insisting that she is
perfectly well, and wants to visit these terrible people
who are defying the police. So far, we have managed
to keep her in the house, but mother is one of those
people” .She flung out her hands despairingly.
“Perhaps, my dear,” Mrs. Claufield suggested
gently, “she needs a change. A month in Sydney
might do her the world of good.” Mrs. Claufield
herself had made a graceful rapprochement with
Henry Westly, and had almost decided to return to
Tiburon.
“She says she likes Tiburon, and she won’t move.”
“Really, dear,” Mrs. Claufield demurred, “your
mother, we know, is a very strong-minded woman,
and no one admires her more than 1 do. That”—
she waved her hands—“that . . . well . . . that
strength is truly remarkable. But she is getting old
now, and she would surely bow to her daughters’
wishes if you only took a firm stand. Now Jane, for
instance” She was referring to Jane Darch, who
had been Jane Malloy before she married. “Jane
takes after your mother more than you do.” (“Except
in looks,” Mrs. Claufield thought to herself. Mrs.
Malloy’s daughters all had their mother’s plainness.)
“Don’t you think Jane could persuade” She
let the suggestion trail away into questioning silence.
“Jane’s made the attempt,” Miss Malloy said
bitterly. “No.” She shook her head. “Mother is
very trying. Not”—her voice altered—“that we mind
her enjoying herself in her own way, but when it
comes to messing about a smelly soup-kitchen”— -
“Exactly, my dear,” said Mrs. Claufield.
11.
Nothing spoils a strike like rain. A picket line
that will stand up steady against police and blacklegs
will crumple up like an old collar in a shower. The
miserable, sodden drip of the rain, the soaking of
cheap, shoddy clothes and the wet squelching in a
man’s boots will break his spirits more quickly than
blows. No one could tell how long the strike might
have lasted if it had not been for the rain. It was
that grey drizzle that keeps on and on with never an
hour’s relief.
“If this keeps up,” Denny prophesied to the
committee at the executive meeting on Wednesday
afternoon, “it’ll be a poor lookout for the public
meeting to-night.” He glanced towards the door.
“Where’s the Warning Hill lot?”
Blue and Jim were to have come in to report on
the activities of the Warning Hill soup-kitchen, but
there was no sign of them, “We'll give them live
minutes.”
The rest of the executive lounged on the wooden
benches with their elbows on the tables and their
heads on their hands, looking out the back door of
the corn-and-fodder store to where four miserable
star thistles stood amid a heap of tin-cans and a
tangle of old wire-netting about a rusty tank. At
Brought down his fist on the paper.
the doorway was a puddle full of water, just where
an unsuspecting foot would step. There was a smell
of damp and sandsoap mixed with the odor of curry
left over from lunch.
It might have been to Mrs. Willis’s curry that
the prevailing depression of spirits was partly due.
Mrs. Willis did not eat at the Tiburon soup-kitchen.
She only “helped” to prepare the food. Her curry
would always stand up stiff by itself. It was a fierce,
strengthening dish, conducive to rancor and indiges-
tion.
Joe Willis broke the silence. He was a burly
man in a grey flannel shirt, over which his red, heavy
face loomed like a threatening sun above a grey
cloudbank. It was probably living on Mrs. Willis’s
cooking that made Joe so hard to get on with.
o Continued on page 50.)


THOUSANDS of real
* RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Uadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357,
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing 3d. in stamps) for tlie 30 x 20
inch Lavishly illustrated Constructional Tableau.
lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St, Sydney
"TfcAD/0/7"
T\ of 1335
m
Stromberg
•Carlson
Chromo -phonic RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C2
RADIO NEWS
THE VALVE AIDS MUSIC.
Another Application of Thermionic Amplification.
BY
DON. B. KNOCK .
Since the dawn of radio, scientists and engineers have been inspired to
devise apparatus that would not merely reproduce musical expression.
but improve upon present means.
With the increased application of the thermionic valve, this branch of the
art —it is often called “electronic music” —has seen corresponding develop-
ments. From the common audio “growler” or oscillator grew the idea of
the “electronic organ ” an organ without pipes whose sounds and
tones came, not through the shutters of an organ loft, hut from a batch
of dynamic speakers. Later this idea was scrapped in favor of toothed
magnetic wheels revolving in magnetic fields, much in the same way
as an armature revolves inside an alternator. These tone wheels were the
basis of the improved “electronic organ.”
The Theremin, the device invented
by a young Russian radio research-
worker, whose name it bears, is another
of these radio musical instruments. It
depends for its action upon body capa-
city influencing an unstable oscillator
and causing variations in the output-
wave frequency. It is played in a very
similar manner to the violin, inasmuch
as the hand is moved closer or further
away to produce variations in pitch.
Still later the orthodox public-address
amplifier was adapted to meet the needs
of the modern dance band. Many dance
bands now, here and overseas, use a
portable public-address amplifier, with
microphone to reinforce the efforts of
the crooner. This is proving an excellent
feature for the band, and cases have
been known where the band has become
popular on the strength of the novelty
of (his feature alone.
The Electro-magnetic Guitar.
Now comes another idea, originated
in Australia. A young Perth musician,
George Webster, conceived the idea of
amplifying the tones produced by
Hawaiian and Spanish guitars. For solo
work these instruments are more or less
adequate in themselves. In orchestral
combination, and particularly in dance
orchestras, Mr. Webster found them
sadly lacking. In competition with wind
and percussion instruments, the guitars
made a poor showing. How could
these weak instruments be separately
amplified? For various reasons, the idea
of using a microphone either outside
or inside the instrument had to be aban-
doned. A mike outside the guitar would
pick up a great deal of unwanted noise,
and feedback would be difficult to avoid.
Again, an internal microphone (which
has been tried in the U.S.A.) would be
a delicate and costly item, with dubious
advantages.
The idea ultimately hit upon was sur-
prising in its simplicity and practicality.
It is illustrated in Fig. 1. A cross-sec-
tional view of the guitar body or sound-
chamber is given, and the arrangement
of the magnetic pick-up used to pick up
the vibrations and the jack for outside
Figure 1.
connection are shown. The operation is
simple. The vibrations from the strings
affect the sound-board, and from there
they are conveyed to the pick-up by
means of the tone rod anchored under
the bridge. This tone rod is rigid and is
bent at a right-angle near its extreme end
so that a short length may be inserted
in the needle-chuck. Once the tone rod
is screwed up tight in the chuck and the
pick-up and jack are installed’ the de-
vice requires no further attention
In Mr. Webster’s Moana orchestra the
amplification is provided by a small
A.C.-D.C. amplifier capable of about
six watts audio output. The amplifier
provides individual fading and mixing
facilities for two or four guitars, which
are connected to it by means of flexible
shielded cable and plugs. The loud-
speaker is mounted on a small baffle-
stand.
When the orchestra plays, no diffi-
culty is experienced in obtaining ad-
equate balance between the guitars and
other instruments. For stage or hall
playing, the effect is something new in
musical presentation.
It will be appreciated, of course, that
the reason why the guitar sounds so
well over the radio and on records is
that cunning use is made of the micro-
phone in order to present the instru-
ment to the best advantage. In the
dance hall and in stage presentations the
guitar usually has quite a minor place,
since the other instruments overshadow
it to such a great extent. It would seem,
then, that the day of musical subordina-
tion for the guitar is over, and that
now, thanks to thermionic amplifi-
cation, it can take its place with other
instruments in building up orchestral
tone color.
R.H.A.
BROADCASTING IN JAPAN.
When a Japanese family sporting a
wireless set sits down and switches on,
falsetto and bass singers warble the music
(but not the words) of “Old Black Joe,”
“Annie Laurie” and “My Old Kentucky
Home.” Even such tunes as “Humor-
esque” and “Serenade”
are vocalised. In a house
a few blocks away, Bud-
wulpington-Smith, late of
It takes all these parts to make
this —
Far too many people
look upon a radio set
as a simple article not
worth the money asked for it. Nothing really good was ever bought new at
anything but a reasonable price.
London, disgusted, either switches off
or to the cackle of some foreign sta-
tion, muttering “hideous”, and “mur-
der” as he does it. But the Japan-
ese delight in such entertainment.
Much of their music is stolen, but then
the “composers” may have stolen it them-
selves. The Japan Advertiser Annual Re-
view, 1934-35, flatteringly described by
Prime Minister Admiral Okado as “an
authoritative survey,” makes it “a yearly
practice” to “review Japanese music by
requesting foreign gramophone record
companies to report their best-sellers.”
This authority reveals that in 1933
America captured the Oriental ear with
the sound of such trifles as “Yes, Sir,
That’s My Baby!” but in 1934 Yankee
influence had been completely ousted
and English and European (chiefly Ger-
man) compositions and instrumentations
had gained popularity. Almost entirely
the gramophone record cos. control
Nippon’s music. The sheet-music
market, mainstay of the industry in
other countries, is an insignificant acces-
sory, “for Japanese instruments are
played almost entirely by ear, and the
only foreign instrument which boasts
any number of performers is the har-
monica.” As for composers attached to
big revue cos., “practically every
‘original’ tune they have presented has
been a barefaced theft of some foreign
composition.” They supply lyrics to fit
the stolen tunes. Cinemas have not yet
produced any music of their own.
Old Japanese music is still heard, being
sung on the stage by geisha and singing
teachers of the old school: new music
is limited in its scope. For instance, the
chief stations at Tokio and Osaka broad-
cast only about five record sides a day
apiece, though small stations use more.
The geniuses of Tin Pan Alley must
squirm when they
read that “Japanese
printers [of sheet
music] merely write
i n Japanese lyrics
and then photograph
and make plates
from th e original
copy, without taking
the trouble to do any
engraving of their
own.”
Half a dozen pub-
lishers sometimes put
out the same foreign
tune. “Trying to
stop such pirating would be a thank-
less and profitless task.” In the record
business, however, copyright infringe-
ments are less common.
Although Japan has no good orches-
tra playing symphonic music, “each of
the music schools in Tokio has its own
orchestra, and there are ensembles
attached to the principal broadcasting
stations.” Strangely enough, the Japan-
ese have made progress in choral sing-
ing: and an English recording of Schu-
bert’s “Unfinished” is high up on the list
of “good” music, a keen appreciation of
which is developing. Two other oddities
—a German wrote the Japanese National
Anthem and an American composer,
Claude Lapham, “may be looked upon
as the pioneer in serious Japanese musi-
cal forms ; certainly in the sonata form.”
T. H.
Amateur Chatter.
Until a few short months ago, amateur
contact between Australia and Europe
on 10m. was only a fanciful dream. At
the time of writing, it is an everyday
fact. In this culmination of the seemingly
impossible, Australian amateurs have
reason to be justly proud, for Australia
has played a big part in the development
of DX on 10m. Not so much in technical
development, but in sticking at it through
years of disappointment. When the
1928-29 10m. DX faded into the distance
lonely §roup of amateurs in this
country persisted every week-end in try-
in" the band out; listening and calling
at intervals, particularly in Sydney.
Although the present favorable ultra-
short-wave results are generally asso-
ciated with unusual sun-spot con-
ditions, a feeling prevails that, if other
stations had been as active in large
numbers on 10m. as they are now, some
DX should have been forthcoming during
those weary years of watching and call-
ing. Communication is only possible
when there is a station at the other end
to work with, and now that stations are
springing into activity on 10m. in ail
parts of the world, signal reflection is
much more likely to take place some-
where at some time of the day or night.
News is to hand, via VK2YC, that the
German D4ARR has W.A.C. on 10m„
and an unconfirmed report places
French BVS similarly. On 20/10/’35
Queensland’s star 10m. exponent,
VK4BB, together with VK4AP, worked
with South African ZSIH. On this day,
VK4BB’s score was reported at 14
Americans, G6LK, G2YL, G2HG, ZSIH,
J2HJ, J2IS, ON4AU, D4ARR and
FBVS —a nice little bag on a frequency
which a few years ago was scorned by
commercial communication engineers!
The writer has not been able to take
part in this 10m. DX owing to rebuilding
of equipment; he completed a new
transmitter just in time to hear the last
of the DX at 8 p.m. on 27/10/’35. This
new transmitter is for all-band operation,
and comprises a Jones exciter unit with
53 and 45, a buffer using R.C.A. De
Forest 801, and an EIMAC 50T power
amplifier. This latter tube is everything
claimed for it in West Coast U.S.A.
magazines, and delivers a surprising out-
put for a modest input. Although the
plate may be run at a cherry-red heat
without danger, maker’s biasing specifi-
cations for various plate voltages must
be rigidly observed.
The sm. band is relatively quiet, which
is natural with the attraction of DX on
10m., and also the ZL-VK International
Contest, which has been running every
week-end for the last month. It seems
likely that unexpected DX will be
revealed on 5m., but this calls for
apparatus vastly different from the general
run of transmitters and receivers now in
use. The writer has obtained some
special valves designed for u.-s.-w. tele-
vision reception, and is making plans for
something really “hot” in sm. and 10m.
superhets. A rumor was prevalent at
the last W.I.A. meeting in Sydney that a
Maorilander has worked with a Japanese
on 5m., but this has not been confirmed,
nor has anything further been heard of
the rumor. In these days of crazy
Heaviside and Appleton layers nothing is
impossible.
VK2NO.
Short-wave Programmes.
Station PHI, Philips Radio, Eind-
hoven, Holland, Wave-length 25.57 m.,
11,730 kc. Opens 11.30 p.m.; closes 1.30
a.m. unless otherwise stated.
Nov. 7: 11.55 p.m., concert by the Residen-
tial Orchestra of The Hague; 12.30 a.m., latest
news from Holland; 12.45 a.m., second part
of concert; 1.15 a.m., dance music.
Nov. 8: 11.40 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m., “The
Aerodrome of Amsterdam,” talk by L. Del-
laert; 12 midnight, music; 12.30 a.m., latest
news from Holland; 12.45 a.m., music.
Nov. 9: 11.35 p.m., the Troubadours;
12.15 a.m., microphone debutants; 12.25 a.m.,
the Troubadours; 12.45 a.m., latest news from
Holland; 1.10 a.m., news talk by L. Aletrino;


NEW BATTERY
Radiot rons
ZI. tZZfZZ? ARE non-microphonic
operated receiver or replacing worn valves insist on the new non-microphonic noise reducing Radiotrons.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’sia) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney 167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne
ADVERTISEMENT of amalgamated WIRELESS valve CO MPA NX LIMITED,
ĸ
1.35 a.m., the Troubadours: 1.55 a.m., talk on
coffee-culture by Dr. A. J. Ultce; 2.15 a.m.,
the Troubadours; 2.40 a.m., close.
Drover’s Duo.
Following on the plea for a small
portable for the lonely drover, the cir-
cuit diagram illustrated shows a small
set the writer has used for some time.
The coil unit happens in this case to be
an R.C.S. oscillator type. The aerial
can be connected directly to the top of
the grid coil. The valves are Radiotron
30's, used with a 45-volt Diamond block,
and filaments are heated from two 4.5-
volt C batteries in parallel. A 50-ohm.
rheostat is included in series with the
A positive lead (not shown), but if four-
volt valves such as the Philips A4ls's are
used the rheostat is not needed. With
the two-volt valves, the rheostat is set
for two volts at the filaments and
locked in position. The tuning and re-
action condensers can be picked up at
the junk store for a shilling or so. This
set will go comfortably into a 9in. by
4in. by Bih. box, batteries and all. The
aerial used is 25 feet of wire, and an
earth connection is not really essential,
though, of course, it will assist materi-
ally. Reaction properly controllable is
worth a stage of R.F., and that is the
secret of this little box of tricks. The
30 detector will oscillate on 32ma, on
the filament, and draws only from 2.5 to
4.5 ma. in the plate circuit. It is not an
objectionable radiator, and has no snags
at all. With 45 volts on the audio plate
there is really no need for a bias bat-
tery. The rheostat may be made to act
as a switch in the “off” position, though
a better way is to have the telephone
jack do this job.
MOB.
Casual Comment.
“y.E,”: Particularly on motor-boat
receivers a vicious cycle (electrolytic
action combined with the semi-conductive
saline deposit that forms on aluminium
exposed to sea’ air) is created in the
telephone headset. Because of this, a
tingling voltage is found across your
head as you don the ’phones to hear your
favorite crooner or to punch your sleepy
GM OM at the ham who keeps shore
sheds for you, as I do regularly across
Moreton Bay (Q.). On searching for a
method of killing these burns from the
135 volts on the last audio of the 56mc,
rig aboard a yacht here, we eventually
tossed out the direct-heater and substi-
tuted a ’37. The ’phones arc connected
in the cathode circuit. The “keep-me-
alive” effect is gone, only about 8-10
volts is across the ’phone winding—an-
other advantage—and salt leaks across
the jack are gone. The principle might
be applied to sets used on the ground
with the same happy advantages.
* * # *
“Brassex”; There is no limit to radio
advertising stunts. From Germany
comes a story of an interesting court
case. A radio firm sold a set on the
t.p. system, but the purchaser slipped on
the instalments. When a representative
of the firm went to repossess the irate
user promptly heaved the set through the
window, with remarks to the effect
that if he couldn’t have it nobody else
should. Summoned to pay for the
damage, only a small fine was imposed,
because “the set was still in good work-
ing order, despite the rough treatment.”
Someone then disclosed that the affair
was an elaborate advertisement for that
particular brand of set!
* * * *
“Smet.”: Television is definitely on
the way. The British Post Office is laying
a line between London and Birmingham
for transmission by the cable system,
which is preferred to radio, high aerials
being necessary to get radiations to pass
over hills and curve down to points
beyond. The limit for radio appears at
present to be about 50 miles, but with
cables effective service over 100 miles
can be given. Baird has made plans to
cover the bulk of the population of
Great Britain within four years. There
will be 10 stations ; and by the time these
are ready the price of receivers will be
down to that of the average home re-
ceiver at present in use. It is claimed by
the Baird Co., whose representative at
the British Association meeting at Nor-
wich recently read a paper on the sub-
ject, that a picture with real entertain-
ment value, bright, and with good defini-
tion, 12in. square, will be transmitted,
and the receiver will not take up any
more space than is now used by the
ordinary broadcast receiver.
Latest in the Trade.
The modulated oscillator illustrated is
A.W.A.'s latest contribution to (he equip-
ment of folk who diagnose the diseases
of radio receivers. Modulated or un-
modulated signals of any frequency be-
tween lOOkc. and 20,000 kc. are available.
The instrument is assembled in a sheet-
steel case with black lacquer finish, and
fitted with leather carrying handle.
Valve equipment includes two 30 Radio-
irons as R.F. and 400-cycle oscillator
respectively, with battery supply from
four 4.5~v01t bias batteries at 60ma.
drain for filaments, and one 60-volt Jight-
duty block at 3ma. to sma. for plate
supply. Net price is £l4 14s. The follow-
ing tests may be conducted with this
modulated oscillator;
(I) Alignment of I.F. and R.F. circuits ai
any desired frequency. (2) Adjustment of re-
ceivers provided with wave-length or kilocycle
scales to correct dial calibration by setting
trimmers and adding condensers. (3) Examina-
tion of ganged T.R.F. circuits for errors in
tracking. (4) Measurement of overall sensi-
tivity. of all types of receivers at any fre-
quency. and gain of 1.1 . amplifiers. (5) Hxami-
nation of noise level at higher sensitivities by
comparison of audio outputs between modu-
lated and unmodulated carrier of equal
strength. (6) Determination of stage gain in
I.F. or R.F. amplifiers. (7) Testing of valves
for performance under working conditions by
insertion of several in succession in a given
socket in a receiver, and noting the change
in stage gain or overall sensitivity. (8) Check-
ing of performance of A.V.C. in receivers. (9)
Measurement of selectivity of I.F. or R.F.
amplifiers in terms of band width in kilocycles
for input signals 100 or 1000 times larger than
the signal on tunc required to give some chosen
value of audio output. (10) Determination of
image ratio or the ratio of the microvolts input
at the wanted signal frequency, both giving
equal audio output.
This comprehensive list of tests covers
more than is usually required in receiver
servicing. All can be quickly executed,
as the controls and methods of calibra-
tion have been designed for simplicity
of operation.
Six frequency ranges may be selected by a
switch: (A) 96kc. to 250 kc., (B) 240 kc. to
600 kc., (C) 560 kc. to 1420 kc., (D) 90 metres
to 220 metres (1360 kc. to 3330 kc.), (E) 37
metres to 96 metres (3120 kc. to 8100 kc.), (F)
15 metres to 38 metres (7900 kc. to 20,000 kc).
All ranges are directly calibrated on a roto-
visor-type dial. A, B and C arc marked in
kilocycles, and D, E and Fin metres. Calibra-
tion accuracy is better than 1 p.c. on range
C, and within 2 p.c. on other ranges.
* >.'t s|c
One of the most ingenious and effective
valve sockets yet designed is the Aus-
tralian-made Dalton. . It is locked in
position in a chassis by a screw ring
similar to a standard-lamp-batten holder,
and insertion is a
matter of seconds.
The bo d y is of
moulded bakelite,
and takes up little
more room than
the hole size re-
quired for mount-
ing. Dalton sockets
recently have been
improved in regard
to the spring con-
tacts. These ar e
now unfailing and
very positive in
action. The Dalton
product has obvi-
ous advantages and
may be obtained
from most Sydney
radio - supply
houses.
The Q. and A. Column.
I require a receiver to bring in the more
powerful stations. Cost is a consideration, and
a few accessories are to hand. A simple three-
valve circuit is all / need, hut the only circuits I
have contain special features, making them com-
plicated or expensive. Please supply a circuit
to suit my purpose. Hairline selectivity is not
needed, and there is no objection to two-dial
timing. The following parts are on hand:
Three six-volt triode valves with sockets, two
.0003 5mfd., variable condensers, several fixed
condensers of various capacities, two audio
transformers, one grid leak, speaker, head-
phones, wire, etc. —328.
The circuit illustrated is that of the Go-
Getter short-wave receiver, introduced by Don
B. Knock in 1927. For your purposes it
can be used on the broadcast band quite suc-
cessfully, and as the variable condensers avail-
able are of higher capacity than those for short
waves there will be no difficulty about cover-
ing the band. Cl and C 2 will be the
; 00035mfd. variables. The coil unit, compris-
ing aerial, grid and plate coil, can be a
standard R.F. screened coil, with the primary
used for feedback. C 4, C 5 and C 6 should be
Imfd. or 2mfd. each. R 3 is a 250,000-ohm
potentiometer. The R.F. choke in the dctector-
platc circuit need not necessarily be screened,
but a screened choke is an advantage.
* * * *
A year ago I built the Wide-World Two, and
have had splendid results. The aerial is a
tuned doublet, and a magnetic speaker gives
plenty of volume on some signals. Now I
am looking for even greater efficiency, and con-
template adding a stage of tuned R.F., as in
the enclosed diagram. (1) Would the 6C6
he better than the 77 as detector ? (2) Would
a 41 valve he better for output than a 42 ?
(3) Will a pair of ganged 23-plate midget vari-
able condensers he suitable for coverage from
15 to 100 metres ? (4) How can handspread
he obtained simply, so that the amateur bands
cover two-thirds of a dial ? (5) Will a midget
dynamic speaker give volume and good quality ?
(6) Is it good practice to build the receiver
in two parts, with R.F. and detector on one
chassis, and audio and power pack (with
speaker ) on another chassis ? (7) Coil data for
22-plate midgets ? —329.
The circuit is theoretically correct, with the
exception that the earth return has been over-
looked for the c.-c. detector. Regeneration con-
trol with decoupled screen grid is suggested, as
in the Improved Wide-World Two (B. 21 /8/’351-
A very small capacity coupling between R.F.
and detector may be used alternatively to the
primary winding now shown. (1) Only if very
high frequencies, such as the 10-metre band,
are required. (2) The 41 is more economical in
heater current than the 42. (3) Yes, but a
trimmer (manual) will be essential across the
R.F. section. (4) By using a small variable
(two- or three-plate midget) across the detector
tuning condenser, and a separate vernier dial.
(5) Plenty of volume and good enough quality.
(6) Yes. (7) Same specifications as for Wide-
World Two will be applicable.
* * * *
How can I prevent evaporation on a
16 -cell battery (glass) with open top ? Wooden
lids rot, though bitumen-covered. Would bees-
wax do ? It would be impossible to cover the
cells with a glass top as lugs project above the
cell— 33o.
Even with lids there must be an air vent,
and evaporation will still take place. Beeswax
would be unsuitable. The best method would
be to make covers of thick sheet celluloid, with
openings for the lugs.
* * * *
Please advise regarding a receiver brought
to Sydney from Melbourne. Is the voltage
different here, and, if so, what alterations will
have to he made ? —327.
Sydney A.C. supply is 240 volts 50 cycles,
and Melbourne 230 volts 50 cycles. If the
receiver is of modern design, it will have a
variable ratio power transformer covering 220,
(Continued on next page.)


8 £ ,
'
mmgm
m.
m.
m
wm
i
■ m
■
m
Back
\.V\e
v
%tr
%
*1
mmmi
: :
THERE’S wisdom in buying a radio receiver
FROM THE BACK . . . you can quickly
see if the best of equipment is built into
the chassis. Valves are the heart and soul of
the receiver and you can be sure of better
radio when “PHILIPS” are in every socket.
PHILIPS
METAL CLAD VALVES
*
/> —
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
m
TO ENGLAND
P the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney
Melbourne.
(mudmndudk/lmmMm/m
230, 240 and 260 volts. The primary connec-
tion must be made to the one marked 240 for
Sydney. If the transformer has no variable
primary and is fixed at 230 volts, a new trans-
former will be needed.
All Round the Dial.
“The Old ’Un”: If I were asked to put
my finger on the most objectionable
feature of radio entertainment I should
select those items that radiate spurious
gaiety. Those breakfast-time sessions full
of rollicking songs, hilarious repartee and
enthusiastic references to ham and eggs
and marmalade and toast are pretty bad.
I’ve yet to see any real breakfast-table
circle where exuberant and riotous good
humor prevails, and I’m willing to bet
that the lads and lasses who do those
early cheer-up sessions relish, when
they’re on holiday, a quiet cup of tea
and piece of toast with no more company
than the morning newspaper. But still
more unnatural was a pseudo-smoke-con-
cert I listened to the other evening.
Reason for its hollowness is provided in
a puff par. sent out by the station respon-
sible. This states that nobody smoked,
the only chap who drank was a singer
with a sore throat who quaffed 2oz. of
water, and all hands kept their eyes
steadily on their script.' No wonder the
whole business rang falsely!
The Earth Used as an Aerial.
Often servicemen and constructors will
write, about their experiences in some
locations in using a house water-pipe as
an aerial. The pipe is normally con-
sidered as an earth connection, and it
may be found that if it is connected to
the aerial ; terminal of a receiver, with
no connection to the earth terminal, re-
ception is quite satisfactory. This is an
old trick with some set-installers, and
many will try it before even considering
an outside or a picture-rail aerial. If
the water-pipe gives satisfactory recep-
tion when used as an aerial, well and
good, but such, is not always the case.
Peculiar noises may arise in the receiver
from various sources along the house
water-supply system. If the set behaves
with a water-pipe aerial as good as, if
not better than, an inside short aerial, it
may be assumed that the water-pipe is
not thoroughly earthed to the actual
earth. A good length of pipe wandering
about the house acts to a great extent
like an aerial, and will pick up energy
from passing radio impulses. Wood and
brick have no serious effect on radio
waves. In the case of a water-pipe aerial,
the real earth to the set is through the
power line, which is (in all modern
wiring) well earthed. Although there is
no metallic connection between the set
and the earth, it is an excellent capacity
earth for radio-frequency currents.
Air-tuned Iron-core LF.
Transformer.
A British development of the iron-dust
core, this I.F. transformer of Varley
make attracted attention at the recent
Olympia radio exhibition in London.
The air-tuned feature is not new, but the
coil cores are. This is a 465 kc. model,
particularly suitable for all-wave super-
bets. Meanwhile, Australia still waits
for iron cores of any kind.
“Insulator”: Australian-designed bat-
tery receivers to-day do a good job, and
in nine cases out of ten a driver and
Class-B audio channel take care of the
output. A tip for our valve manufac-
turers is the new English Class-B com-
bination valve, where the driver and
Class-B twin elements are all housed in
the one glass envelope. The Hivac
D 8240 is of this new breed, and the one
filament supplies the lot. In the interests
of economy, such valves should be avail-
able in Australia. The less the number
of filaments to be heated the better.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless-stamps accompany.
N.M.: Wish some of you bards would try
monkey-gland treatment on your Muses....
F.J.; It suggests The Hunting of the Snark.de-
scribed by its author as “An Agony—ln Eight
Fits. - ’ Don't trouble to send the other
seven K.M.: Too insipid for verse relating
to bullock teams and their drivers R. 8.1.:
Forty-eight lines, 36 of them beginning with
[he good old definite article! Not content with
that you try to rhyme “dawn” with “morn”
and “stream” with “serene”... .Adam: Mighty
poor jingle, even if the fact that Tom Bent
"took off his hat to the cow” were worth re-
calling after all these years... .A.M.C.: “Mos-
quitoes” run ill in rhyming harness with either
“creatures” or “greet us.” Now, if you d
made them “skecters,” you would have en-
countered no such difficulties.. . .A.M.; Regret
to note the introduction of football into the
hitherto peaceful New Hebrides... .J.R.8.:
Merely a pointless talc strung out with amateur
verses....M.J.H.: Cracksman yarn received
death sentence; afterwards commuted to ban-
ishment from this office... . D.H.: Verses too
pretty-pretty... .A.M.: In writing another
"Evangeline” you are simply asking for it....
J.D.S.: Wc don t want yarns about Russian
peasants and commissars J.C.C.: “The
Chatterbox” is talking her way home. She
on the Knighfs of the Round’ TaSenot as
Sheer bathos esnccially the ’ scene set in an
Fnufish n. son I F As exciting as sit-
US'S t’toSS'a.ir **
sipping weak tea F.A.; Style fair, but plot
unconvincing.... W.F.: “Goose” too’tough for
u 5.... D.1..R.: Satire only half-baked... J.C.:
Burlesque overdone W.T.G.: Nearly gave
ns the Himdvits FJC • Awful' R R.:
Might unload St elsewhere.*...B.C.: All duds,
... .0.L.8.: Humor 100 forced... .E.F.0.:
Counterfeit type of story worn thin. As to
thc swindle being original—it’s been perpetu-
ated hundreds of times and written about thou-
sands of times.... M.N.: Why did Mrs. Jones
assume it was Edwin who was killed? Wouldn’t
her first thought have been “Which 0ne?”....
N.A.N.: Can’t see how a pool can “mirror
in its depths thc glory of the noonday sky”
yet still be of “purest forest green”
LDC.G.: Your drover speaks at times like
an old Oxonian....D.K.McC.: It trudges
along in a well-worn track... .E.McL.; Doesn’t
appeal... .Z.V.W.: Not in our line... .N.C.A.:
Hardly enough in it. The baker joke was
good E.H.: Doesn’t quite make the grade,
...Novo: It doesn’t convince... .J.W.H.:
Appreciate your desire to put the case for the
bagmen, but a short story isn’t the best way.
S.D.: Always distrust brawny he-men who
have to get someone else to help them “pop .
the question”.... D.C.T.8.: lnt^^ 1 " g V^ u !
not ini our line.. ..D.W. (Ml.), t . *
try elsewhere... .K.T.H: Good insight into
juvenile mind, plot weak.... ■
Sketch misses; Pan made Religious Editor
feel skittish VP. (Ml.): There is always
hope at 17; avoid cheap Americanisms an
read good stuff... . 8.5. G.: No pulling power
in motor yarn... .1.M.M.: Doesnt ring tnc
bell ... .G.M.F.: Too morbid and melodra-
matic; prefer settings closer to home....
K.G.P.: Not a smile in it.... A.L.P.: Can t
see that Reggie’s tactics were any less dishonest
than Tyler's... .H.T.W.: See A. to C. column,
16/10/’35. Cannot send criticisms by post....
Pickles: It may be a masterpiece, but the vv on < -‘
will never acclaim it until you write legibly,
... .W.D.McC.: A cure tor Indigestion:
Tj ie p Ure extract of tallow, it acts like a charm
if it doesn’t do good it cannot do harm.
But I’ll bet a new hat, if you take it you 11 thrive
And you’ll write as good verse as old Bellenve.
That seems rather too much to expect....
G.M.: It should have been ex-Minister.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
rnprpQpmsinßMTS
CORRLSPQN
p D . Yqu a]most create a rccord for thc
number o f blots and
That chestnut raised laughs on thc Ark...
T.R.: You’re about the thirty-seventh to send
*.«». nr; b M „5 D : R s tin
puzzling as to what it is all about.... R.G..
Shows promise; con Unue; hard with you
studies... .A.8.J.. I hil May thought of that
nearly half a century ago ....HI Jagged
linework and stale jokes N.C.: A man in
a strait-jacket could do better. M.N.K.: Its
fate hung in the balance for about a fifth of
a second .... J. 8.: Ihe jovial undertakei now
reposes in the office morgue... .E.R.. tt is
practically impossible to tell which is
pear and which the swagman... .T.J. : Not a
winner among the dozen... .L.G.: They have
some decorative value but none as humorous
illustrations... .S.W.: Jests arc t°° long-
winded and the drawings need a lot of over-
hauling 1.R.M.: Haven t you learned any-
thing about perspective?... .8.N.: Drawings
done in white chalk and blue pencil on brown
paper automatically reject themselves... .G.M. :
Lessons—about five years of them—arc needed.
. ...C.C.K.; A hoary fish that got away
joke A.G.: Nothing to laugh at in that
large and carelessly-drawn batch... .F,8.:. Joke
in bad taste, drawing atrocious.. . .N.C.W..
Drawings are improving but stiff lack Me....
H.P.: Could see nothing in thc three submitted
to make us alter our opinion.


FOR FLEMINGTON.
Linlithgow Stakes: Garrio ; next.
Valiant Chief.
Oaks: Bimilla.
Veteran Stakes: Sporting Blood;
next, Limbohn.
C. B. Fisher Plate: Hall Mark ;
next, Feldspar.
V.R.C. Handicap: Sporting
Blood ; next, Bnnsby Gaze.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Gold Digger;
next, Jaccuse.
Canterbury Handicap: First Bal-
loon ; next, Nord.
Highweight Handicap: Rem-
brandt ; next, King Moab.
Ashbury Handicap: Moallin ;
next, Alan Verde.
Sporting
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
All other features of Derby Day run-
ning at Flemington were overshadowed
by the Melbourne Stakes downfall of
Peter Pan. It made spectators so dumb
with astonishment that they forgot to
cheer the winner, Sylvandale, until he
had almost entered the enclosure where
jockeys dismount. There was no hoot-
ing. Remarkable, this, for Melbourne ;
almost invariably a “demonstration” suc-
ceeds the defeat of a 4-to-l-on favorite
(though it is rarely meant or taken
seriously). The Flemington crowd treated
Peter Pan’s signal failure as a minor
tragedy ; for many moments the silence
was funereal. Rodney Dangar, the
owner, and Frank McGrath, the trainer,
were as much befogged as the general
public as to what made Peter Pan run
the worst race of his whole career—
such a race as might have been expected
of a horse of the most ordinary type.
On the tracks, Peter Pan had done
all that Frank McGrath desired of him.
He had limped a little on Saturday
morning, and again when leaving the
mounting yard for the Melbourne
Stakes ; but this is nothing new with the
son of Pantheon. Until the straight was
entered all seemed serene. Jim Pike had
kept the champion in an ideal position,
and as soon as he threw out a challenge
Bert; "l STA.ICEO £.LL , &.WD LOST
ALL *
4 ff
. WwiZxT At?E YOU GOING, TO oo
ABOUT IT ? "
Bert. " Shoot myseLp
Qert- V/ell, you MIGHT DO it iw the GAGDEKi,
l(/l= vJUST CLEANED THIS ROOM*.
to Sylvandale the onlookers prepared
themselves for a typical Peter Pan finish.
Amazingly, the silver-maned chestnut
could make no impression on the leader.
Pike reluctantly drew the whip ; but his
mount went from bad to worse,
floundered towards the finish and be.at
only one of five rivals.
Dangar hazarded the opinion that the
nip in the atmosphere might have in-
duced a sudden twinge of shoulder
rheumatism in Peter Pan, but he added
that “Peter” did not look as burly as
he was in the autumn. Bookmakers and
punters alike reckoned that the wonder-
ful thoroughbred had lost his former
superlative galloping ability, and, from
being a 7-to-2 favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup, he receded to 16 to 1 at
the close of the day’s racing. Ante-post
bookmakers who had partially covered
up their Peter Pan liabilities at such
great expense beforehand must have felt
like kicking themselves when they re-
flected on how much better off they
would have been by waiting until nearer
Cup Day.
Sylvandale, who won the Stakes (at
12 to 1), staged a recovery of his best
form. He had gone off towards the end
of the spring meetings in Sydney, but
picked up noticeably after reaching Mel-
bourne, where the son of Silvius appears
to thrive best. From a Cup point of
view, however, the effort of Sylvandale
in winning the weight-for-age event was
not nearly so meritorious as that of
Marabou in finishing second, half a
length away. These horses met on equal
terms ; Sylvandale was required to give
Marabou 211 b. in the Cup. It is not
surprising that, following the pro-
nounced recession of Peter Pan in the
betting on the big race. Marabou be-
came favorite at the same cramped odds
that had been offered against the son
of Pantheon.
The thrilling finish in the Victoria
Derby took the minds of Flemington
patrons off what had occurred just pre-
viously. Beamish Boy, winner of the
S.A. Derby, led from the time he left
the straight until it was re-entered. To this
son of Windbag must be accorded the
credit of the Derby being run in time
(2min. 3Hsec.) equalling the race
record, which Phar Lap established and
which is shared by Hall Mark.
Blame has been cast on Frank Demp-
sey for his riding tactics with the favor-
ite, Palfresco. Instead of waiting for
a long run at the end, he made a for-
ward move six furlongs from home and
tried to win as soon as the straight was
entered. This is unlike the usual pro-
cedure of Dempsey, who, when he cap-
tured the Sydney Cup of 1921 on Euryth-
mic, was absolutely last at the six-
furlongs'pole, Pal fresco knocked up in-
side the distance and faded into fourth
place. Percival might have done better
on him. Buzzard King was fifth.
Voitre rode a magnificent finish on
Feldspar (5 to 1). The Thracian colt
was set a bitter task, but he responded
splendidly to the whip, and gained the
honors by half a length from Allunga,
with Garrio (20 to 1), a stable-mate of
the winner, a mere half-neck farther off.
Young Idea seemed a possibility before
he got on Beamish Boy’s heels as they
raced into the straight. He came down.
Neither horse nor rider was hurt, but
the colt was taken out of the Cup.
A. T. Creswick, whose pastoral posses-
sions extend through three States, was
immensely proud of being both the
owner and the breeder of the Derby
hero. Feldspar claims Thracian (brother
to Heroic) as sire. The dam, Quartz, was
a daughter of Quiara, an English mare
that raced in Perth. Feldspar’s form in
the A.J.C. Derby must have been all
wrong.
Voitre must be in the pink of physical
condition. Before scoring on Feldspar
in a punishing finish he had been suc-
cessful on Link Divine (5 to 2) in the
Wakeful Stakes, for three-year-old fillies.
Link Divine did not seem to have even
the remotest chance of overhauling the
favorite, Bimilla, two furlongs from
home ; but Voitre kept at her with the
whip, and, by sheer vigor and determin-
ation, got up in the final stride, to win
by a head. On this occasion the lad
from Maoriland might have been mis-
taken for Duncan in the heyday of his
fame. Voitre is becoming as popular
with punters as Duncan used to be.
Jockeys do not retain popularity unless
they win often.
Fidelity, the flying filly from Sydney,
made her calling and election sure as
the champion juvenile of Australia by
winning the Maribyrnong Plate (at 3
to 1) from end to end, carrying a 51b.
penalty. Whether she will develop
stamina enough for the classics next
season remains to be seen. Gilded
Youth, the favorite, cut up badly.
Hostile (33 to 1) made it a great day
for the Ring by annexing the Cantala
Stakes by half a head from Whitting-
ham (20 to 1), Press Gang being third.
Sarcherie (5 to 2) reduced some of the
ringmen’s profits by running away with
the Hotham Handicap ; Dick Devon and
Oro were doing the chasing at the
finish. In this race High Cross fell when
going well, and was so dicky on Monday
that his chance of seeing the post on
Tuesday seemed slim. Clune’s bad luck
pursues him. Sarcherie completed her
job in 2min. 30-l-sec.—an excellent Cup
trial.
* * * *
“Jumbo”: Nightmarch (1929), States-
man (1928), Windbag (1925), Poitrcl
(1920) and Westcourt (1917), to go no
further back, were third in the Mel-
bourne Stakes and first in the Cup. The
conjunction made so deep an impression
on punters that “third in the Melbourne
Stakes, first in the Cup,” became a turf
maxim. It lost its power in Hall Mark’s
case. That good little horse, third in
the Stakes, and closer to the first horse
than any of the five Cup winners men-
tioned, was 12 to 1 on Saturday morn-
ing and you could get 20 to 1 on Mon-
day, though he didn’t stay at that price.
♦ * . * >!■
“Merriwee”: In Victoria, the last State
to legalise the totalisator, punters have
taken so kindly to machine betting that
Melbourne tote receipts are now leaving
Sydney’s behind. At Flemington on
Saturday £64,165 of currency was ex-
changed for tote tickets, an increase of
£1670 on 1934 Derby Day figures. At
Caulfield on Cup Day the tote staff
handled £63,691, an increase of £9892.
At Randwick on Epsom Day, paddock,
Leger and flat machines raked in £63,966.
The attendance was calculated at 68,000
compared with 43,000 at Flemington on
Saturday. Unless the A.J.C. can contrive
to make Warwick Farm rival Caulfield
or induce a greedy Government to be
content with less than the 9 p.c. it grabs
from the pool, Victorian totals will
steadily outdistance N.S.W. totals.
* * * *
High Cross had 7st. 61b. in the Metro-
politan, in which he was first home, but
was placed second after a protest ; Oro,
second home and placed first, had Bst.
91b. W. C. Will, the Melbourne handi-
capper, evidently thinks that High Cross
was the better horse at the weights on
Metrop. Day, despite the stewards’ de-
cision, for he has put only 81b. between
them in the Williamstown Cup. Cer-
tainly High Cross won the A.J.C. Final
Handicap, but then Oro won the Spring
Handicap at Rosehill with Bst. 111 b., and
if rehandicapping had been possible
would assuredly have gone up a couple
of pounds in the Metrop. ; he also ran
two very creditable seconds to Peter Pan
at weight-for-age. Oro is nicely treated
at Williamstown with 9st., and will be
hard to beat if he retains his form. He
has been galloping brilliantly with
Berestoi on the track.
Jj: . sfc t- *
“S. Gumm”: More than one racing
man has had reason to thank his stars that
Hunter White, the A.J.C. committeeman,
breeds more horses than he knows what
to do with, and is always ready to listen
to a leasing proposition. Young Braham.
who owes his possession of Art to
Hunter White’s generosity, has won good
races in three States with the High Art
gelding; the Werribee and Moonee
Valley Cup races brought him £3OOO in
stake-money and trophies. The young
fellow made the A.J.C. committeeman's
acquaintance when jackerooing in N.S.W.
He is a son of the W.A.T.C. handicapper,
a very good judge of a horse. The elder
Braham had to encounter some prejudice
after his appointment as handicapper in
Perth (it was alleged that he was addicted
to punting, and would never be able to
stop it), but he lived it down.
* * * *
While Buzzard King was running so
well in the Victoria Derby, two other
sons of The Buzzard, Auto Buz and First
Buzzard, were figuring in the finish of
the Queensland Derby. Auto Buz,
ridden by Tanwan, won, but those who
had laid the odds (6 to 4) on him had
many anxious moments, for it was only
by a “short” head that the Guineas
winner defeated the second favorite,
Lominga ; First Buzzard was five lengths
away. Auto Buz ran the mile and a half
in 2min. 35|sec. Tanwan rode another
6-to-4-on favorite, Soft Step, for the C.
A. Morris Stakes, and there was another
close finish, but this time his mount got
the worse of it. Soft Step being defeated
by the second favorite, Strange Idea
(Rivoli —High Ideas). The doubles tote
returned another great divvy, £265 6s. 6d.
for ss. on King Merlin (Hopeful Stakes)
and Ardon’s Pride (Brisbane Handicap).
King Merlin went out at 7 to 1, Ardon’s
Pride at 10 to 1. If men had been lay-
ing the doubles, as at Randwick, the
punters who actually collected at the
rate of a shade better than 1060 to 1
would have been reckoned lucky to
get 50 to 1.
>;<*♦*
Recollections of the Feldspar-Hall
Mark biting match were recalled by the
antics of Broccoli in the Moorefield Han-
dicap on Saturday. Had Rivoli’s son
raced kindly he must have won. Turn-
ing for home he came across sharply
and made a snap at Foudroyanl. Ho
had another ineffectual bite near the
Leger and, stumbling, lost lengths. The
Rosehill-trained mare went on to beat
Measure, with Broccoli the closest of
thirds. Foudroyant started at eights.
The Ascot-trained Paddora (12 to n
has been a money-spinner for Syd
Mahony. Beaten out of a place at Ken-
sington, he downed his opponents in the
first division of the Welter at Moore-
field. Tom Pinch, Rembrandt and Fern-
acre had a game of cutthroat, and were
dead-tired at the turn. Paddora easily
accounted for Crowbar and Fernacre,
with Tom Pinch and Rembrandt down
the straight.
“G. Lighlford” did not go to Mel-
bourne to cheer Whittingham on in the
Cantala Stakes, but he had the pleasure
of seeing his colors carried to victory by
Rose Gem (9 to 4) in the second division
of the Moorefield Welter. Slow away,
and seemingly out of the race at the
half-mile, she lost more ground at “the
three.” To the amazement of her
backers she came from the clouds to cut
down Blue Flash and Hathalie. Alftruda,
the pacemaker,, was fourth.
Ridden expertly by Young, who was
taught the finer points of riding by Sam
Whitbread, Buonarroti (3 to 1) placed
the Hurstville Mile to William Kelso's
credit. Young sat still on the natty little
horse until they reached the turn ; then,
going round Autoland and Delray, he
soon put the issue beyond doubt.
Mystic Spell essayed to lead all the way,
but had had enough at the two furlongs.
{Continued on next page.)


Ti
EC
n
ie
Australia
1 Hotel
M
mmm
rrr Jir " ' ■ raT^
VH
m
rtr rf£
\m\i\
[1(11®
rafiih
mMI rMfcji
SYDNEY
|ifjl
N.S.W
rH- r* is*
nsp
trs-g.
inn
'««t , r
a
‘MJ)\ ini i
lisS tin I
m
ABl'ij
mm
im
«
vVi
>■
telegraphic Address; “Aiistraotel, Sydney.
fm
CHRISTMAS IN SYDNEY!
Make “The Australia” Your Headquarters.
Make “The Australia” your headquarters in Sydney—and be assured of luxurious
comfort and flawless attention to your personal preferences.
When you can enjoy “Australia” excellence at moderate cost . . . why be satisfied
with any accommodation of lesser quality?
NEW TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room 10/6 per day. Double Room ----- 20/- per day
h -VW «'(lustradoi
Opening shortly—the new Martin Place Extension.
Ins and Outs
’Hotham”; The Board of Control can
hustle when it likes. Though it occupied
nearly three months in taking a postal vote
of the States about Tarrant's team, the
question of whether the ukase forbidding
the Australians to play under the new
l.b.w. rule in South Africa should be
rescinded went through with a bang.
Our men will play under the old laws,
though as the Afrikanders specially asked
that the new law might be permitted it
would have hurt no one to grant them
the courtesy of an affirmative vote. The
Board claims that it would be unfair to
ask Australians to play under a rule of
which they have had no experience. The
Boks were in the same plight when they
were asked the same ques-
tion in England. They cheer-
fully consented to the
change.
* * *
“Fremantle”; The team
for South Africa beat West-
ralia by an innings and 249
runs, but, except for two
men, was far from impress-
ing the scanty attendances.
It laboriously compiled 425
in its one innings, Chipper-
lield (88) being about the
only player to keep the few
spectators from dozing,
though nearly everyone made
some runs. Westralia’s con-
tributions were 114 and 62.
The batsmen couldn’t play
Fleetwood-Smith (4-24 and
7-20).
Hs >|c
“Wanderers”: South
African cricket is having
tough luck. On top of the
cables that bowlers Bell and
Vincent have dropped out of
the games against the Aus-
tralians comes news that
’keeper Cameron is dead of
enteric. Cameron’s loss as a
’keeper is severe, though
there are plenty of good sub-
stitutes available, but it is as
a determined, hitting bats-
man, with the capacity to
win matches on his own or
at least change the tide of
fortune, that he will be
missed. He was a splendid
chap, and only 30.
' * * *
“Aigburth”: The English
press is fond of extolling the
Jilywhite amateurism of South
African cricketers, as op-
posed to the persons who
come periodically from Aus-
tralia. The Afrikanders have
blown the gaff by demand-
ing £3O per Test match for
playing against the Austra-
lians, and their British
backers are stunned. Natal
views the request in the right
light. It is willing to pay the
money on the ground that the
players taking it admit they
thereby become professionals
—which, of course, they do.
3fC $ #
“Leg Slip”: The news
that Pataudi, now residing in
Hind, is to skipper the next
Indian team in England
comes as a surprise, for his
appointment creates an im-
portant precedent. He has
already played for England,
and Test-match rules to-day
are insistent that no player shall
nowadays appear for two countries. In
the past, when conditions were not
so strict, there were cases like that
of Midwinter, who played for Australia
against England, and vice versa. Mur-
doch, Ferris, Sam Woods and Albert
Trott, all Australian representatives, also
played for England, but against South
Africa only. It has always been felt
by many that England has shown a sad
| ack °f the true cricket spirit by allow-
*n§ non-English players to figure in its
representative teams,
tt _ * * *
, enth sll P : The N.S.W. team to
™ ee * Queensland m th e first of the
Sh< r ffie,ds at Brisbane has given general
satisfaction. In the absence of Kippax,
Mc pilvray will captain the side, but
Silvers has been able to make the trip,
and ll he stnkes a B ood da Y m ay prove
a match-winner. Marks should do well
m Brisbane > where he generally makes
runs - Coo P er - Fallowfield. Miller and
Mud 8 e were Paying junior cricket last
season » Cooper is the fast-bowling hope.
and has had only three matches in first-
grade cricket this year. Fallowfield had
an average of 134 in Poidevm-Gray
games last year, and is regarded by many
as a possibility for Test-match cricket.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Amateur Pro.”: The amateur who
becomes a professional has a hard row
to hoc before he can be accepted by the
trade-union, but not so hard as the pro.
who desires to become a lilywhaite again,
One such, driven by the hard times to
go as coach to the backblocks of N.S.W.,
applied to the Ma State golf heads for
whitewashing. He was told that he must
“act so as to come within the definition
of an amateur” for three consecutive
years before readmission. Also he was
told that if he had acted as a professional
for five consecutive years the pearly gates
of amateurism would have been closed
to him tor all time.
' , * . * .
Huon’; Internecine strife again
marked the Tasmanian professional golf
championship when the Robertson
family battled for the supremacy. Old
man Jock Robertson eventually downed
a son, W. 8., by a stroke. Jock’s
score, 304 for 72 holes, reads rather
high ; but he sprained an ankle soon
after starting, and insisted on playing on.
to win in one over bogey. The Tas-
manian Scots, like their brethren north of
the Tweed, are a hardy race.
“Lakeside”; The American profes-
sional golf championship, held at Okla-
homa City, once sacred to cowboys,
sheriffs and six-shooters, was won by
Revolta, who downed Tommy Armour,
5 and 4. Revolta’s two concluding
rounds were 70 and 75. This would be
considered schoolkid stuff on some of
our Australian courses, where even
caddies go round in 60’s.
* * * *
“Baffy”: One result of the form shown
by the visitors to Country Golf Week
in Sydney has been a suggestion that an
annual City v. Country match would
round off the occasion nicely. Teams of
eight could meet in singles and four-
somes, and perhaps the N.S.W. golf
heads might be persuaded to
dig down into the sock and
spend a pound or two on a
trophy of sorts.
* « ii<
“Claypan”: Country
golfers continue to do their
bit to help along the fund
for financing our professional
golfers on their tour of the
U.S.A. After an exhibition
match at Bowral (N.S.W.)
between Kelly and F. Bolger
—Brother Bill is still on the
sick list —and Richardson
and Cohen the gallery threw
£2O into the hat. Kelly and
Bolger won the match, and
if they can manage a clean-
up like this during the rest
of their tour should lighten
the hearts of the tour
organisers considerably.
* * >|!
“Hamilton”: Queensland's
professional golf champion-
ship was Won by (he Vic-
toria Park professional Gaz-
zard, who beat his assistant.
Anderson, at Indooroopilly, 4
and 2. A peculiar incident
marked the game. At the
seventh hole Anderson’s putt
hung on the lip of the cup
and seemed likely to blow in
any moment. Gazzard hur-
riedly holed his shot for a
win and then snatched up his
opponent’s ball in case it was
blown into the tin. Quite
legal ; but Gazzard must be
a very earnest player.
* * *
“Wooden Ham”: Mrs.
Vare has won the American
women’s golf championship
by 3 and 2 from Patty Berg.
As Glenn a Collett, she took
the title in 1922-5-8-9 and
1930. She always found
Joyce Wethered a hurdle she
could never get round or
over.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: Cochet has
cabled from Hong Kong
that he will be in Sydney by
November 21. The next
thing will be to fix up a pro-
gramme for him. Cummings's
secession to the professionals
will supply one good oppo-
nent. Matches in Melbourne
seem out of the question,
and that goes for Adelaide
also. It looks as if, after
Sydney and Brisbane, the
N.S.W. country districts will
have to be dredged for gates,
unless N.S.W. is content to
let Henri run the risk of being left high
and dry.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: As expected,
the N.S.W. tennis heads have gone out
of their way to nark the A.L.T.A. over
the Cochet visit. The A.L.T.A. asked
that the Frenchman be given no recogni-
tion and that no grounds under N.S.W.
control should be available to him. To


THE ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
KEMP SADDLE
k
No. 75
£l3/15/6
(MOOTED)
This is the
only saddle
with the best
claim to the
title “ Kemp. ”
All others are
only imitations.
The seat has no
seams to burst, and
the panel has leather
points down sides. It
is made of best kip
leather on a “fouright”
tree.
Freight paid in N.S.W.
for cash with order.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
393 GEORGE SX., SYD. (opp. Dymock's).
as
&
J
ACROSS
TO ENGLAND
_-i - - s-c
a»
/
a
ii
St
‘til ''
Eft
f.ruwimiwii
••• I =
You’]! drive “from the mountains to the
sea'’ on broad Wilshire Boulevard in Los
Angeles; circle the romantic piers of San
Francisco’s Embarcadero; sense the differ-
nice of New Orleans’ New Cana I Sti-eet; feel
the brisk lake breezes on Michigan Boule-
vard in Chicago; follow park-centered
Commonwealth in Boston; thrill to Wash-
ington’s celebrated Pennsylvania Avenue,
from the White House to the Capitol!
... hut first you will have threaded the
South Seas—on the superb, now Matson-
Oceanic ships “Mariposa” or “Monterey”
with delightful stops at New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii...
... then compare this new travelway to the
famous boulevards along its course. It’s
more than just a “route” — it’s a thorough-
fare, for those who expect pleasure, exact
service, and who know values ...
... like a many-armed speedway, the great
railways which place Wilshire just7shours
from dazzling Broadway in New York!
Their swift, frequent schedules group into
easy access every city and scenic objective.
Comfort is engagingly defined by Pullman
sleepers, club cars where you may lounge
and play, renowned cuisines, constant ser-
vice. Trains are air-conditioned; their tem-
perature controlled to even coolness. W ith
barber, valet, ladies’ maid, helpful porters
—here is smart hotel-life in rapid motion!
And, as throughout this exhilarating
journey, expenses are tamped down to
common-sense levels. Train fares are loir;
incidental costs negligible; stopover
privileges liberal (and no extra charge) ;
plans are simple and flexible, and may
be arranged before you start . . . altered
as occasion demands.
For complete details of this short, modern, thrill-
ing boulevard to England, secure our illustrated
booklet “England Across America”—it is yours
without cost or obligation.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
which Ma blandly replied that she never
invited Cochet to come, but that if he
did she couldn’t see the pore fellow all
dressed up for tennis and nowhere to
play. It is likely that more may be
heard of the feud, for the position of the
parties is obscure. Perhaps the High
Court will have to decide yet whether
the Federal jurisdiction overrides that
of the State.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: Queensland tennis
gets small encouragement from the South.
It is almost impossible to induce a N. S.
Wales or Victorian side to visit Brisbane
for inter-State matches, and Queensland
players rarely gain recognition from
Australian selectors.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The M.L. women’s tennis
team now in Sydney is the fourth to
cross the Tasman ; the others came in
1896, 1904 and 1926. Dulcie Nicholls
was first schoolgirl champion of M.L.,
and has held the Dominion title for the
last three years. Nessie Beverley, listed
second in M.L., is the Auckland cham-
pionette; Dora Miller hails from
Dunedin, where tennis is played on
asphalt—she is ranked fourth in the
Dominion. Of the others, the two Poole
sisters are from Christchurch, as also is
Edna Rudkin, who came into the team
when Miss Taylor dropped out through
illness. They got a fearful doing in the
first match against Ma, but their form
was too bad to be true.
Miscellaneous
“Filzcray”: The Henley-on-Yarra
people were doubtful of getting inter-
state competition this year, but things
have turned out better than expected.
The N.S.W. Police crew will be in the
Grand Challenge Eights, and S.A.’s
Berri club will also enter an eight,
borrowing a boat in Melbourne. Berri
has for two years cleaned up the senior
fours for the Stewards’ Challenge Cup,
and is expected to boat a warm eight.
Rockhampton will represent Queensland
with a crew in the Stewards’ Challenge,
so Westralia and Tassie will be the only
absentees.
* * :Jc *
“Splash”: The Federal Government
having extended its gracious recognition,
a team of 24 lifesavers will be sent to
tour England, the Continent and North
America next year. Men from all the
States who have passed the exams, of
the Surf L.S. Association will be eligible
for selection. Funds will have to be
raised among the enthusiasts, among
whom the Commonwealth Ministry can-
not be numbered. It was asked to hand
out a mere £lO,OOO, but changed the
subject at once.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Kahanamoku, the big.
brown Hawaiian swimmer who is> ex-
pected to visit Australia this summer,
was the means of introducing surfboard
riding. When a strapping young fellow
he astonished all the lads at Bondi with
his board manipulation. Before the
season was over, everybody was doing it.
I saw Miss Andrews and her brother
perform stunts on the surfboard which I
never saw repeated during a month on
Waikiki beach.
*** . *
“Green Checquer”: Pigeon-racing in
N.S.W. got a bad knockback when
heavy winds and stormy weather broke
up the long-distance race from Menindie
(N.S.W.) and Ivanhoe (S.A.) to Sydney.
Over a week after the start only eight
birds had returned from Menindie and
20 from Ivanhoe ; and there were 3000
starters. Hawks will account for many,
but there is a prospect of many birds
finding their way back after they have
rested and fed. Country people generally
are appealed to to care for any ringed
birds settling at their homes, and to give
them food and water. As it is, losses
run into thousands of pounds, the original
value of the flight being placed at £7500.
* * * *
“Acme”: Likely that Australia will
present its first ice-skating representative
at the next Olympic Games, a happening
certain to astonish the millions who
envisage Australia as a warmer edition
of the Sahara Desert. He is K. J.
Kennedy, half-mile and mile skating
champion of Australia and holder of
British titles. Kennedy is at present in
England, and there will be no trouble
about funds if he can get endorsement.
The ice sports will be run off at
Garmisch-Partenkirchen in Bavaria be-
fore the European winter comes to an
end,
* * * *
“Spike”: The N.S.W. Government
having promised to find the money for a
cinder track if the Empire Games are
allotted to Sydney, it has been suggested
that the expensive gadget should be put
down at the moth-eaten and frowsy Sports
Ground, where the A.A.A. will get free
use of it ever after, the ground being
leased by it. There is something in the
claim that a track at the Cricket Ground
or the Show Ground would be useless
after the Games and would have to be
taken up. If the Sports Ground gets it it
is to be hoped something will be done
to liven up that depressing arena before
the international athletes get an eyeful
of it.
* * if *
“The Gaffer”: The 59th Stawell Gift,
last survivor of Australia’s big profes-
sional pedestrian events, will carry in-
creased prize-money next Easter —£500.
Good prizes are offered for distance and
other races, including £l3O for the mile.
Arrangements are already being made for
the club’s golden jubilee meeting in 1937,
and a lot of extra money for the prize-
list is expected to come in the shape of
voluntary gifts from old Stawellites. The
Gift on that occasion will be worth
£lOOO.
* * * *
“Sharper”; London saw some quaint
billiards when Burroughs and Watts cele-
brated their centenary by a match —on
a table 100 years old —between Peall,
whom a former generation knew as the
Spot-stroke King, and Sydney Fry, an
amateur champion of the ’nineties. Peall
was over 80 and his opponent verging on
70 ; the spot stroke was permitted, and
Peall won by 225 to 187. The rumbling
of the ancient ivory balls over the oak
bed of the table drowned conversation,
and the list cushions were responsible for
angles hitherto undreamed of, even by
Walter Lindrum.


CONQUEST
The story of the man on the land is one of industry,
courage and perseverance . .'. . and the need of
financial assistance to carry on the fight. That is
where the Rural Bank is helping the agricultural de-
velopment of the State. The Bank depends on public
support for the funds that make the credit possible.
Fixed Deposits are accepted and cheque accounts opened at all branches
RURAL K V\l«
O V
ADVT
SOUTH WALES
Head Office 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch: 350 George Street, (Opp. Wynyard Street.)
Commissioners : C. R. McKerihan (President) H. Rogers P. Kearns
“I LOVED
MY FLIVVER!”
Pathetic Scene at
Inquest
MOTORIST IN TEARS
A pathetic scene occurred at an inquest before Mr. Clarified
Crude yesterday, over the body of a departed flivver. The
owner, N. E. Cheepoil (relative of the well-known counsel,
Mr. N. E. Oileldo), broke down under cross-examination.
Said Cheepoil:
“She served me well, my flivver did
Till Friction lifted off her lid
And caused disaster grim—hut oh!
From now on give me Texaco!”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “I think you
treated her shockingly. I hope you
didn’t recite to her.”
.Cheepoil:
“I kicked her when she wouldn’t go,
I wish Td fed her TEXACO."
Mr. Clarified Crude; “You ought to
be ashamed of yourself!”
CAUSE OF DEATH.
Dr. Full-Body, of the Research Section of
Ihe Texaco Anti-Friction Squad, said that he
had conducted the autopsy. Death had been
due to a complete seizure, brought on by r an
oil breakdown, and undoubtedly by the Motor
Wrecker, Friction. The cylinder-walls were
extensively scored, bearings were in a pitiable
state, pistons were oval, and there was a heavy
deposit of hard carbon. Deceased showed
signs of malnutrition and must have suffered
torture.
Mr. Clarified Crude; “Cruelty to Cars! This
would all have been prevented by the use of
Texaco Motor Oil!”
Dr. Full-Body; “Yes, sir! Deceased would
have been alive and well to-day if Mr. Cheepoil
had used Texaco. It is full-bodied and free-
flowing, and gives protection right from the
first touch of the starter.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Does it stand up to
heat and hard driving?”
Dr. Full-Body: “Texaco Motor Oil is dis-
tilled from specially-selected crudes, and is
heat-tempered to withstand heat and pressure
when another oil might break down and cause
trouble.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Is Texaco suitable for
all cars?”
Dr. Full-Body: “Yes, sir, especially for the
modern high-speed, high-compression motor,
which operates under extremes of heat and
pressure. The opinion is held by petroleum
scientists and practical motor engineers
throughout the world that there is no more
efficient oil than Texaco. And when Texaco’s
research laboratories can produce a better oil
—and only then —you may be sure that they
will put their name to it and make it avail-
able.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Do you think, then,
that the pioneering work and the achievements
of Texaco have had much effect on the pet-
roleum industry as a whole?”
TEXACO SETS PACE.
Dr. Full-Body: “There is plenty of evidence
to show that Texaco has definitely set the pace
as regards lubrication. Texaco was the first
to produce an oil which would flow freely at
all temperatures, and yet give maximum safety
and protection.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “What other pioneering
work haw Texaco done?”
Dr. Full-Body: “Texaco has an exclusive
heat-tempering process which makes the oil
tougher and longer-lasting.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Does Texaco contain
hard carbon?”
Dr. Full-Body: “No, sir! Texaco contains
no hard carbon. It lias the lowest carbon
deposit of any widely-known motor oil. The
little there is can be easily brushed away.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Is there any likelihood
that the high standards of lubrication set by
Texaco will presently become general?”
Dr. Full-Body: “Some claims are already be-
ing made in relation to the selling points
which have hitherto belonged exclusively to
Texaco. But Your Worship may rest assured
that Texaco’s Scientific Research Laboratories,
which are staffed by the world’s most capable
scientists, and with unique resources, are still
well ahead. I should say that they had
established a lead which they are likely to
keep, despite what general standards the
industry as a whole may achieve.”
AN ENVIABLE RECORD.
Mr. Clarified Crude: “What notable achieve-
ments has Texaco Motor Oil in practical lubri-
cation ?”
Dr. Full-Body: “The Greyhound Line of
Luxury Coaches, operating throughout the
length and breadth of America with thousands
of vehicles, uses Texaco Motor Oil exclusively.
One division recently completed a million
miles without a breakdown.”
Mr, Clarified Crude: “That’s interesting.
Anything else?”
Dr. Full-Body: “The American Trans-
continental and American Western-Airways
operating at commercial speeds of 3 miles
per minute, use Texaco Airplane Oil and Avia-
tion Spirit exclusively', to keep up to schedule
and to maintain their high standard of safety,
“It was a Texaco-lubricated and fuelled
T.W.A. Douglas ’plane which recently estab-
lished nine American records for speed with
load, 'and three world’s speed with load records
for land ’planes.”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Splendid! What else?”
Dr. Full-Body: “Texaco also has the largest
volume.sales in the world to railways, and a
Texaco-lubricated engine recently established
a world’s record of 92.0 miles per hour over a
measured distance of 01.4 miles.
“Also, one of the latest diesel-engined
streamlined trains, lubricated with Texaco,
recently attained a speed of 109 miles per
hour!”
Mr. Clarified Crude: “Most interesting.
Thank you very much, Doctor. Most con-
vincing evidence. Unfortunately I have to
get on with this wretched business of Mr.
Cheepoil .and his deceased Flivver. I hope
Cheepoil has listened well to what you have
had to say. If I did my duty I’d commit him
on a charge of Car Murder.
“I find that deceased succumbed to the fiend
Friction, who brought on a complete seizure
consequent upon the use of cheap motor oil.
I blame Mr. Cheepoil for all that has occurred.”
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Horse v. Camel
Not only did the Australian horse
“run the ship of the desert off his feet”
(B. 16/10/’35) on the agricultural lands
of Syria, but he did it on what was sup-
posed to be the camel’s own wicket —
the fetlock-deep sands of Sinai. As to
going without water, the Anzac M.D.
horses were 48 hours without a drink
during the Romani fighting, and that in
a lurnace-like Sinai summer. Other
performances were even better, notably
in the great chivy up the Philistine plain,
when the deep village wells prevented
quick watering and —since the harrying
of the Turk could not cease —often had
to be passed until a better opportunity
offered.
I can assure “X.T.” that he can get
out of his mind the impression that
"Lawrence and his oonts” were ahead
ol and “wailing in Damascus” for
C hauvel and Allenby. The Australian
Mounted Division was ahead of all
Allied troops when Damascus was
reached.—L. 1. B. (Q.),
A “Parliament Saturday”
Ihe annual appeal for hospitals in
Victoria is not meeting with the usual
success this year. The explanation is
that people are forced to pay so much
in taxes, fees, stamp duties, etc., that
they can’t and won’t meet further calls.
There is a remedy, a very simple one,
and one which would not only benefit
the hospitals, but would also be a bless-
ing to Australia. Let the various State
Governments give to the hospitals a
sum equal to the whole cost of the State
Parliaments, including members’ salaries,
upkeep. Parliamentary staff and loss
on refreshment-rooms. (An average
taken over the last five years would be
a fair thing.) Then let members hold
an appeal for funds, with “Parliament
Saturday” and “Parliament Sunday” tak-
ing the place of Hospital Saturday and
Sunday. If the people appraise the value
of the politicians at the same figure as
do the politicians themselves, the money
would roll in. —Slinga (Vic.).
Overcrowded Buses and Trams
1 have been studying the technique of
overcrowding as practised on Mr. Brux-
ner’s Sydney transport system. The day
was wet, and at every street corner in
the main bus thoroughfare of Mosman
little crowds were waiting at 8.30 a.m.
for transport to the ferry. First a bus
rushed by, “express,” so loaded down
that the entrance side was six inches
nearer the ground than the other. 1
clocked it over about a quarter of a
mile of the greasy cement road; 43
m.p.h., and, where it slowed down, the
side slip as shown by the tyre-marks
was nearly a foot on the back wheels.
But drivers have to run to schedule.
I travelled in a bus that appeared to
be doing 50 m.p.h. on second gear.
A second express hurtled past—this so
jambed that there was even a girl
standing on the step. The third stopped
for intermediate passengers. I joined in
and tallied out the contents —26 people
standing.
The trams are as bad. I rode in one,
Wynyard to Taronga Park; it had 43
people standing in it at one stage and
48 seated. No man with chivalry could
do other than straphang—and the first
V
half-mile across the bridge costs him 3d.
for the privilege.
1 can tell Mr. Bruxner how to raise
enough money to provide seats for all :
see that all city fares are collected.
Three times in one day I travelled on
one of the ancient footboard double
trams without paying a fare. All that
is needed if you wish to ride free from
the G.P.O. to the Town Hall in George-
street is to see which end the conductor
is at and get as far as possible away
from him. If the traffic is fairly brisk,
he hasn’t a chance with you.—J. E. B.
(N.S.W.).
Melbourne Transport
Former City Engineer Morton returned
from a European trip not at all satisfied
with the ability of motor-buses to carry
the traffic now handled by trams. The
bus barrackers in Melbourne chide
him, and quote London as a city
which successfully carries its passengers
by bus. The truth is that it carries in-
finitely more of them by tube. If the
tubes were taken out of London the
whole city would be at a standstill ; the
buses would never compass half the
demand.
While the real solution of Melbourne’s
traffic difficulties would be a bus service
covering only the city area itself, buses in
place of a suburban tram system would
congest the streets to a shocking degree.
Melbourne has been experiencing a slight
taste of what would happen. As electri-
fication of the tramways serving the
northern suburbs is under way, passen-
gers are being temporarily served by
buses, and Elizabeth-street is almost im-
passable to any other traffic. Standing
on the slope that leads to Sydney-road
a spectator sees nothing but a long line
of big, green buses whose width is so
great that —with the middle of the road
“up" for electrification —no other vehicle
can pass without risk of damage.
Buses are all right in their place, but
those optimistic people who regard them
as the panacea for all traffic troubles
have another guess coming.—G. M. (Vic.).
The Censorship Complex
Councillor Marshall, of Collingwood
(Vic.), is depressed about the sort of
books the young of his suburb read in
the local library. The heroes, he says,
are mostly lounge lizards and the
heroines just hussies.
Mr. Marshall seems to have the true
censorship complex which confuses
literary merit with virtue. He would he
glad to see Lawrence’s Seven Pillars in
his institution because it is literature. Yet
any flapper will find in that tome words
which no modern “depraved” novelist
would dare to write down, just as he
would discover in “Hamlet” coarsenesses
calculated to make aldermen and
Customs officers turn green with shock.
The works of Shaw are full of hus-
sies—if Mrs. Warren wasn’t one, in the
name of Heaven what was she? And
Wells seems to have known a few —the
lady in The Passionate Friends, for
instance.
Censorship is the function of men
who are a generation behind the times.
Possibly, Mr. Marshall’s grandchildren
will rise in half a century to shout that
contemporary works should be publicly
burned and replaced in the Collingwood
library by the classics of Norman Lind-
say and Aldous Huxley.—E. H. M.
(N.S.W.).


THE
nwiTcn
UNI I tU
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS. Manager.
thersills
SEASICK REMEDY
Quickly Relieves
Travel Sickness A
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue, now on sale, discusses—
THE OUTLOOK IN SECURITY AND OTHER MARKETS.
TRADE DEVELOPMENTS.
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION.
BASE-METAL PRICES.
THE MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £ll2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
m
W-
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m
; HOTEL
STTNET
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Outwitting the Abyssinians
“D.A.”: The League of Nations hav-
ing imposed sanctions against Italy, it
may become impossible for Mussolini
to carry on against Abyssinia according
to the best traditions of warfare. He
may have to resort to strategy in order
to gain the submission of the hardy
Ethiopian warriors who live on a hand-
ful of grain a day and shoot from the
foot. Act of war though it may be,
I offer my considered advice to Italy
as to the quickest means of obtaining a
decisive and inexpensive victory.
Firstly, Mussolini or his nominee must
stand as leader of the New Ethiopia
Douglas Credit party at the next Abys-
sinian general elections. He may find
it necessary to conduct his campaign, in
the initial stages, from Eritrea, Italian
Somaliland or other non-hoslile territory.
But with 1000 or so aeroplanes at his
disposal the distribution of propaganda
should be easy ; and, once the gospel of
Douglas has been properly assimilated by
the tribes to the north, south, east and
west of Addis Ababa, the rest will be
easier still.
The A + B theorem, explained as
lucidly as possible in the Ethiopian
dialects, should first of all be brought
before the people—dropped from ’planes,
if necessary. Once they
get properly taken up
with this they will be
good for nothing else.
The reason why manu-
facturers of cheese from
goats’ milk do not dis-
tribute sufficient purchas-
ing power to enable their
goods to be bought will
immediately arouse seeth-
ing indignation against
the Abyssinian monetary
system. A lofty contempt
for Abyssinian women
ignorant of the workings
of the scheme will soon
be cultivated by female
converts to the prophet’s
teachings, and bridge par-
ties in Harar and Addis
Ababa will be agog with
the subject. The war will
fade into oblivion in
social circles.
The idea of issuing “money-tickets"
should make a warm appeal to these
ancient followers of King Solomon.
From ticket-money it is only one step
further to national dividends—and then
you have the whole populace clamor-
ing for Mussolini and Douglas!
So that the election may be run in an
orderly manner an organisation called the
“A + B Guards,” with control, perhaps,
handed over to Ras Gutza (no, Gugsa)
and his followers, should be formed to
move quietly throughout the countryside
and prevent any effective hostile demon-
strations by the Abyssinian fnanshul
inst'.tushuns or their minions. If the
ballot is fairly conducted, even without
pre-selection there will be no doubt
about the eventual result. Once a man
is converted to Douglasism there can
be no doubt about his adherence and
support; he has neither ears nor temper
for anybody else’s opinion.
Safe in office Mussolini (or his
nominee) may proceed, without undue
haste, to put the Douglas scheme into
operation. Sometimes anticipation on the
people’s part is better than realisation.
He should lose no time, however, in
legislating for a crippling income-tax on
the fnanshul inst’tushuns and the thrifty
classes. He should pass land-tax laws
with the object of “breaking up the big
estates.” If he has any trouble with the
Upper House he should flood it, force
it to vote itself out of existence, and
then have a new one elected, candidates
making a certainty of it by laying bets
against themselves.
All the foregoing, of course, is not
necessarily part of the Douglas Credit
platform, but a good politician can get
away with it. While the Douglas scheme
proper is being put into operation—some
hundreds of thousands of Abyssinian
clerks, male and female, will be added
to the civil service in order to ascertain
the “just price” to be charged for cheese,
goatskins, etc. —the new Prime Minister
will be speedily bringing the country’s
trade and commerce to a standstill by
his taxation programme. The landed
classes will soon be brought to their
knees.
Then he must play his trump card! I
don’t know whether the Djibouti-Addis
Ababa railway is paying or not, but it
“ That's right. Bill—deafen 'em so they won't 'ear us."
doesn’t matter. A “temporary” wheel-,
foot- and poll-tax should be levied on
every method of transport, whether it be
by road, track and/or trail leading to
the Red .Sea, Kenya, the Sudan or .else-
where, and whether in competition with
the railway or otherwise. With the Trans-
port Act in operation, and the whole of
the Abyssinian population in Addis
Ababa awaiting their national dividends,
the country's transport and defence may
be said to be in a state of complete
paralysis.
Mussolini and/or his nominee must
now act quickly. The position can be
consolidated by peaceful military occu-
pation and Parliament voting itself an
indeterminate period of life. But these
final touches should be carried out, at the
latest, before, say, the second national
credit dividend is paid. After all, there
are few things harder to deal with than
a disappointed Abyssinian.
The clause in the N. S. Wales Com-
panies Bill prohibiting share-hawking
is to be modified. The canvasser, however,
will not be permitted to conclude a trans-
action ; his activities will be restricted to
leaving with his prospect a prospectus,
an application form and whatever im-
pression he is able to make. The trouble
with the original clause was that it was
too sweepingly restrictive. Other altera-
tions in the draft measure are to be
made. It is to be hoped that the obliga-
tion on all companies to file an annual
balance sheet will be retained.
* * * *
Broken Hill South shares at £5 look
like one of the best Barrier purchases at
the present price of metals. Last year
the co. extracted 366,960 tons of ore, and
treated 366,660 tons. The ore assayed
15.3 p.c. lead, 6.90 z. silver and 13 p.c.
zinc. Those metal contents, with the
exception of a slight reduction in lead,
are better than in 1934, and consider-
ably higher than the grade treated seven
years ago. In 1928 ore reserves were esti-
mated at 4,250,000 tons;' since then
2,400,000 tons of crudes has been
raised, but at June 30, 1935, “the ore
reserve as at present developed is con-
servatively estimated at 3,500,000 tons.”
The levels being principally worked now
are at 1270 ft. and 1370 ft. The lead con-
tent averages over 15 p.c., and at the
lower working the ore is richer in zinc,
The 1480 ft. level is as yet merely in the
process of being opened up; a high
average metal content is maintained in
the developmental ore raised. It seems,
therefore, that a 10-year life for the
South on a 360,000-ton-p.a. output would
be looking at things pessimistically
rather than conservatively. Last year’s
mining profit (£255,870) came from
approximately 50,000 tons of lead,
2,000,0000 z. of silver and 40,000 tons
of zinc, and the average London prices
for the metals during the year were
£ll 6s. a ton for lead, 2s. 3.8 d. an ounce
for silver and £l2 16s. 7d. a ton for
spelter. Last week’s prices were £l7 7s.
6d., 2s. sd. and £l6 3s. 9d. respectively.
South, which paid 30 p.c. for the year to
June 30, recently declared a dividend at
the rate of 50 p.c. p.a. If present metal
prices are maintained —that is the main
gamble, granted freedom from labor
troubles —75 p.c. distributions should be
possible.
* * * *
New Occidental G.M., N.L. (Cobar,
N.S.W.), something of an unknown quan-
tity to many mining investors, reports
that for the three months to Sept. 30
last 14.645 tons of ore was milled for
4848 fine ounces, equal to 6.62dwt. a
ton. Including gold lost in the plant,
the average is estimated at 7.13dwt., with
7.77dw1. in September—“more truly
representing the average grade of ore,”
the board considers. Costs, as in the
case of Lancefield (W.A.), Sulphide
(N.S.W.), Mt. Coolon (Q.) and several
other mines, have exceeded expectations
owing to hardness of the ore. But on a
7500-tons-a-month production, 30s. a ton
is expected to cover expenses. The
14,645 tons crushed during the last
quarter showed a mine profit of £15,103
—a little more than 20s. (or 2idwt.) to
the ton. The crushing, however, in-
cluded experimental work. Much will
depend upon the extent, grade and acces-
sibility of the ore developed from time
to time. There are 812,500 ss. shares
issued and fully paid. A number of
shareholders would like a more com-
prehensive report on ore reserves and
extraction costs.
* * ■ >H *
B. E. Todhunter, a director of Imperial
Chemical Industries, said the other day
that his co. had decided to go into the
production of alkali along the shores of
St. Vincent’s Gulf (S.A.), “subject to
a promise of support by the Common-
wealth Government”—apparently in con-
nection with tariff protection. A capital
outlay of over £1,000,000 is projected.
Salt and limestone would be got in South
Aus., and coal and coke from N. S.
Wales.
* * * *
Lake View and Star dropped its dis-
tribution from 57i p.c. to 50 p.c. in its
last year; North Kalgurli’s rate went up
from 50 p.c. to 62£ p.c., and the interim
just declared is at the rate of 75 p.c.
North Kal. has stabbed the drill into
narrow bodies (between a foot and two
feet thick) of ore going Boz. and 13oz. to
the ton. Both Golden Mile shows are
at present sought after in the market.
Placer Development has paid an interim
of 50 Canadian cents per dollar share,
as against $2.50 when the scrip was in
$5 denominations. It represents an in-
crease of only 10 cents on five of the
present shares, and the handout wasn’t
well received by supporters. Bulolo
Gold Dredging, in which Placer owns
a 32 p.c. interest, has distributed an
interim of $1.40 (Canadian) on its $5
shares, an increase of 20 cents on the
last dividend. The Placer group, for long
regarded almost with reverence by the
market, is at present in comparative dis-
favor. The abandonment of the Middle
Creek options was a horrible shock for
many punters ; the silence on the matter,
which hasn’t yet been properly broken,
didn’t turn out to be golden.
* * * *
Mount Morgan is paying 60 p.c. p.a.
these days, and maintenance of the rate
is confidently expected. There is a huge
body of low-grade ore, and much may
yet be done in further reducing costs.
Shareholders are to be asked on Nov. 21
to consider a proposal for installing a
low-grade treatment plant at a cost of
£lOO,OOO. The market asks for its capital
back in years on the present price
and dividend basis.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOHS
“Anna Karenina”
As a screen dramatisation of Tolstoy’s
novel this picture is a success, with one
qualification. The main elements of the
plot have been retained, and the poignant
story of Anna is depicted sincerely and
accurately. But the contrast between the
lot of Kitty, who, disappointed in her
Greta Garbo as Anna in “Anna
Karenina” at Sydney St. James.
love for Vronsky, marries Levin and
leads a‘happy orthodox life, and that of
Anna, who leaves her home and child
and drifts with Vronsky through Europe,
socially ostracised and brooding over
imagined slights from her lover, is to a
large extent neglected. Kitty (Maureen
O’Sullivan) and Levin (Gyles Isham) are
little more than incidental characters.
Forgetting the novel and taking the
talkie on its own merits, it scores high
marks, and is an answer to those who
consider Garbo’s star is setting. She is,
as ever, a very competent emotional
actress. In her interpretation of Anna —
at first happy and content, then attracted
to Vronsky but struggling against her
emotions, yielding and leaving everything
for him, drooping down through mists
of gloom and despair to suicide—she
gives a convincing imitation of life.
Fredric March, who plays Vronsky,
lias been seen to better advantage. He
does little to make one believe him worth
running away with, and there is no ex-
cuse for the scene that shows him as the
champion drinker of the Russian Army.
Freddie Bartholomew is several pegs
below the standard of his Copperfield
performance, and in this production he
gets far too much footage. Nevertheless,
he is a bright lad. Basil Rathbone, as
Karenin, Anna’s self-righteous husband,
has a part which he fills superbly. At
Sydney St. James.
“Old Man Rhythm”
A musical story of college life, zestful
youth, intoxicating rhythm and gay
romance. That’s what the dope-sheets
say about it. Scene is a U.S.A. cahledgc
where the young men wear cricket caps
of the sort affected by Tweedledum and
Tweedledee in Tenniel’s illustrations to
Carroll’s “Alice.” Immensely wealthy
captain of industry or some sort of a
racket (George Barbier) decides at the
age of 60 or thereabouts that the only
way he can prevent his only son (crooner
Buddy Rogers) from marrying a design-
ing vamp is to enrol himself in the fresh-
men’s class at the same comic university.
After staying there for three or four
weeks and playing (rap-drums in a jazz-
band on no stronger stimulant than ice-
cream (soda-flavored) he gets the news
bruited abroad that his fortune has gone
west, whereupon the vamp (Grace Brad-
ley) ditches Buddy, clearing the way for
a co-ed with a heart of gold (Barbara
Kent). Jazz and croonery are f.a.q. Tin
Pan Alley products, but there’s one good
comedian in the bunch whose lecturctte
on the flea deserves gramophone immor-
tality. The other 73 minutes of the 76
were wasted on this commentator. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Charlie Chan in Shanghai”
In this opus from the pen of Earl
Derr Biggers the demurely debonair
Charlie (Warner Oland), assisted by a
quite authentically Chinese (or more
likely Japanese) son, toys negligently
with a gang of desperate villains who
smuggle opium, and who for some reason
not elucidated murder titled British
scientists by means of infernal machines.
Chan, still as productive of terse proverbs
as an egg is full of meat, is too downy
a bird to be caught by the kindergarten
tricks of his opponents, and as his suc-
cess is a foregone conclusion most of
the interest settles on Chan, junior—prin-
cipal remark “Aw, pee, Pahp!” He woos
a pretty China girl by telephone most
of the time, but snaps out of it when-
ever required to give expert detective
service to his astute parent. Various
humorous touches make this thriller one
of the most bearable of the Chan series.
“She Married Her Boss”
At Sydney Regent. The boss (Melvyn
Douglas) is owner of a big store. Claud-
ette Colbert is his very efficient secretary.
It is not until he hears a false rumor
about her leaving the firm that the boss
realises she is indispensable, so he mar-
ries her to keep her in the business.
Basil Rathbone as papa Karenin.
She puts his house in order, replacing in-
efficient servants with marvels, disciplin-
ing the spoiled daughter of a first mar-
riage, and keeping a neurotic sister in
her place. That begins to pall, so she
plans to elope with a handsome stranger.
Instead, her husband, wised up by re-
formed daughter, and full of hooch,
abducts her and celebrates the dawn of
true lurv by hurling bricks through the
windows of his own store. Machine-
made comedy, but slickly acted.
“Hot Tip”
With racing so much in the air in Aus-
tralia this mildly amusing comedy,
featuring Zasu Pitts and James Gleason,
comes appositely. Zasu is married to
Gleason, who is a confirmed punter with
a chain of racing debts perpetually
around his neck. She takes over the
family bank account in order to curb
his craze for the horses, but he finds
ways and means to satisfy his urge.
Gleason persuades a prospective son-in-
iaw to risk his savings on a neddy, the
winnings to be used to put the young
chap in a position to marry Gleason’s
Freddie Bartholomew as Anna’s son.
daughter. Gleason at the racecourse
transfers the bet to another horse. The
original choice wins at long odds, and
Gleason is in a tight corner. He decides
to have another flutter to cover his ill-
luck, and is compelled to adopt extreme
measures to get the wherewithal. By the
time the decisive race begins he is owing
several thousand dollars and has gaol in
prospect. But, of course, his long-shot
comes off, and all ends happily. Fiction
about the turf is a lot stranger than truth.
Also at the Regent.
“She”
Such a picturesque theme as that
of Rider Haggard’s She was bound,
sooner or later, to be handed over to the
producers of the gorgeously spectacular.
The book has been followed just suffi-
ciently to justify some brilliant settings.
Those in the fabulous kingdom of Kor
are weirdly sumptuous. Some of the
faking is almost foolproof. Helen
Kahagan, in the title role, is impressive,
and in the final scene, where her youth-
ful features give place to a haglike mask,
she is superb. Randolph Scott and Helen
Mack play the romance satisfactorily, and
Nigel Bruce adds a touch of whimsical
humor. Readers of the novel may be
mystified occasionally as to where most
of the plot has gone, but on the whole
the talkie version is excellent entertain-
ment. At Sydney Plaza.
“The Silver Streak”
Also at the Plaza. A 2000-mile dash
across the U.S.A. in a Diesel-electric
streamlined train with a cargo of Drinker
respirators in a race with Death is the
excuse for this thriller. The faking is as
crude as the plot. Charles Starred as the
brilliant young railroad engineer and
Sally Blane as the goil who never loses
faith in him are tolerable. Advancing
years lend dignity to the once-dashing
William Farnum as Sally’s heavy father.
For those who like sitting with the driver
while the train takes hairpin bends at
140 m.p.h. it might be entertainment.
“Vintage Wine”
At Melb. Athenaeum ; a satire on the
respectability of the French bourgeoisie.
The family is summoned to consider the
behavior of grandpa, who, at 62, is
alleged to be leading a sinful life in
Rome. His mother is a masterful old
lady who runs the whole family and its
business —the manufacture of champagne.
She is persuaded by two wowser sons to
bring the old man to heel. He finds his
only ally in his granddaughter, a flapper
who doesn't bother about the conven-
tions. She helps him to “escape” to
Rome with the pack hot on his trail,
and they corner him there —to discover
that the truth is worse than suspicion and
that he has married the lady of his heart.
Great-grandma and the rest demand a
separation, but the flapper stands up to
great-grandma and tells her off so effec-
tively that the old lady rejoices to find
she has a descendant with some spirit.
Seymour Hicks seems to have at last
mastered the cinema medium. As
grandpa, he is delightful. Eva Moore is
a formidable great-grandma, and Judy
Gunn makes a bright flapper. There are
many bright lines in the dialogue, and it
skilfully skims the edges of propriety.
“Carnival in Spain”
An unconvincing piece of fiction con-
cerning a stony-hearted scnorita and a
number of her lovers, and one in par-
ticular whom she swindled for years and
to whom she returned at long last. That
(he characters are Spanish matters not
at all. Marlene Dietrich as the flirta-
tious senorita doesn’t worry about it,
arid Lionel Atwill, E. E. Horton and
Alison Skipworth care even less. With
the exception of Dietrich they all repeat
past performances capably. .She looks
charming, but that is all. At Sydney
Cameo.
“Legong”
Also at the Cameo. Subtilled “The
Dance of the Virgins” and done in tech-
nicolor, it dramatises the traditional
warning given to maids of the island of
Bali to the effect that “If love should
enter into your eyes and go to your
heart, be sure the loved one returns
Fredric March as Vronsky.
your affection, or the gods will frown
and evil will befall thee.” The color is
vivid ; the manner in which the camera
deals with the life of the Balinese is
excellent, and the four natives who por-
tray the story prove themselves to be
clever actors.
“The Murder Man”
A section of U.S.A. newspaper life.
A reporter has the news on the streets
two seconds after a crooked financier is
shot down in front of his office, and
every phase of the subsequent develop-
ments forms a scoop for this genius.
How he does it is not explained until


The New Power Ist
Motion Picture Industry
rx
o
■
'€
*i
m.
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL” RETURNS
—in another thrill-tingling adventure-romance
made to be one of the screen sensations
of 1935-36.
£lOO,OOO TO PRODUCE!
The perfect story for Leslie Howard’s first great
international production. Set in the most colorful
and romantic periods in history—with Howard as
dashing a?*d adventurous Prince Charles of
Scotland.
W
►
i
Produced
under th e
p e r s o n al
supervision
of Leslie
Howard.
r
m
ie
r
w
m s
mm
m.
if
dk
n
Vi
uafmt;
m
r\»
w
m.
nine
PrinoeQiarlie
f
m
Coming to enter tain
all Australia/
Jsk your Local ThedreManahrdhoutii
WORLD STANDARD PRODUCTIONS
the end, when there is provided an
explanation more or less feasible.
Spencer Tracy is the reporter. Best
characterisation is done by Harvey
Stephens, as the convicted man, in the
interview with the reporter the day be-
fore he is to go to the electric chair.
Te gives a picture of terror which makes
die audience shudder. Virginia Bruce is
the goil. At Melb; Metro.
Some First Nights
Purplest patch of the orchestral concert
at Sydney Con. Hall was the Beethoven
G Major Concerto, with Isidor Good-
man at the pianoforte. Mr. Goodman’s
part in the performance brought into
strong relief a point about the great
Ludwig that is seldom stressed—his end-
less resource in inventing means of
pianistic expression. To the technician,
Chopin may be the Keats of the key-
board, but Beethoven is its Shakspeare.
Master of all instrumental voices, his
pianoforte concertos have a particular
gusto because they enthrone the one that
was nearest to his heart. Mr. Goodman
plays Beethoven perhaps too gracefully,
but he uncovers beauties missed by many
famous virtuosos. The purely orchestral
fare was interesting, but not particularly
inspiring. The Brahms Third Symphony,
Liadoff’s “Enchanted Lake” and the first
two of Grieg’s “Norwegian Dances” pro-
vided plenty of variety in style, and the
inclusion of the “Roman Carnival” over-
ture of Berlioz, played with plenty of
snap and fire, was welcome as evidence
that this great master of orchestral
writing is coming into his own. Dr.
Edgar Bainton’s conducting was, as usual,
full of good taste.
*l* -I* -I- -I*
Exactly what the four grave gentle-
men from Budapest thought when they
played the quartets of Bartok, Prokofieff
and Hindemith at Sydney Con. Hall is
wrapped in their own breasts. Possibly
there is some meaning in each of these
“The Bridge,” etching by Bim Hilder in the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
compositiqtts, but if there is it must be
sc utterly utter that t Iran-
scends all idioms but those Of music. 1 O
this commentator they all sounded like
.. r 1 f
wo, o a haimony s u 8
o sick of a feeble theme that he Wcwit
to blazes. The next stage in advanced
composition possibly wil! be
■ %*l m ' ma-therna. ics
• 8 1 W 'rff hie theme bo n
riple-differentiated) and winding up with
e original equation. Trou e
usua y make such a woe .
en lnB ‘
Muriel Edsall’s recital at the Forurn
Club, Sydney, was enjoyable because the
pianist has found her metier. She is,
above all things, an emotional and
imaginative player, and is more at home
with Debussy than with any other com-
poser. A couple of Brahms’s intermezzos
and a group of Schumann’s “Fantasie-
stucke” were flowingly delivered, and the
welter of moods in Glazounov's “Theme
and Variations” was prettily depicted,
but the “Water Reflections” and “Plati-
num Blonde” of the French master were
outstanding.
•J* v *T*
As blithe as when she first tripped
along a score of years ago, “Our Miss
Gibbs” had four nights out with the
Petersham (Sydney) Mus. Soc., which
has plenty of good voices at its disposal
and isn’t so highbrow as to sneer at
Monckton’s clever tunes. As coquettish
Mary, Leonora Lupp trilled melodiously.
Don McGregor passed muster as the
debonair Lord Eynsford. Other singing
parts were taken smoothly by Joyce
Smith, Edna Bragg, Molly Braun, Arthur
Bedwell, Arch Atkin and Alan Moore,
•b *j*
Samuel Shiffron, a young Russian
Pole and a pupil of Melbourne’s distin-
guished Edward Goll, appeared at the
keyboard at the Assembly Hall last week
and impressed a full house by his admir-
able rendering of Beethoven’s abstruse
Op. 111 (“Hammerklavier”) Sonata, with
its ponderous opening chords. He showed
that he could play charmingly and deli-
cately as well by, his rendering of the
Schubert Sonata, Op. 120, in A Major
and the Mozart Sonata in D. To com-
plete his platform equipment he played
some Chopin and Debussy.
The Three Velescos, apparently father,
mother and son, provide an acrobatic
and musical turn in “Young and Beauti-
ful,” Melb. Tivoli’s new revue. Their
principal item is the old Risley act, but
they contrive to make it new, all three
taking part in the evolutions, to the
accompaniment of a violin duet by father
and son. Harry Marconi plays the
piano-accordion ; Rene, Charlotte Ayres,
Larue and Maurice show their ideas of
adagio dancing—really graceful acro-
batics. The lady is tossed about among
the three men like a ball, but maintains
pretty attitudes. The comedian is Angus
Watson, a Scot with a sense of humor.
A good show.
Current Artbursts
During his life R. W. Slurgess was sub-
jected to the criticism that he had
imitated Hilder. The collection of his
water-colors now hanging in Melbourne
Fine Arts Gallery shows that he did
nothing of the kind. Some of the work
resembles Hilder’s, for there was a great
similarity of feeling on
the part of both artists,
and their approach was
necessarily related. But
it is only a few of Stur-
gess’s works that possess
any suggestion of Hilder :
even those charged with
delicacy of color and tell-
ing atmospheric effects
would never be mistaken
as water-colors from the
brush of the Sydney man.
“The Schooner” is prob-
ably the most interesting
example in the present ex-
hibition—a vessel lying
motionless on a glassy sea
at dusk, in which the sea
and sky melt into a deli-
cate greyish-green with a
vague suggestion of coast-
line. “Evening Glow” is
another of those misty
glories which Sturgess so
well mastered ; so is “Re-
flections,” showing a
yacht at anchor with a
couple of dinghies in the
foreground. But Sturgess
revealed another phase
of his art in bush studies
full of color, atmosphere
and warmth —“The Wind-
ing Road,” “Old Home,
Daylesford,” and “Bush
Road.”
•J* •'« »|*
The Arts and Crafts Society of N. S.
Wales is nearly 30 years old. At the Edu-
cation Department’s Gallery, Sydney, it
has a show worthy of its age ; the scope
is so wide and the techniques dealt in are
so many that no one critic could hope
to do it justice. Two from The Bulletin
gave it a go one afternoon last week.
They agreed that Mrs. Francis Darsow’s
exhibit, “Martin-place,” had a right to
its title. The little replica of a flower
stall with a striped awning shouts its
name to all who know Sydney. A sterner
note is struck by the wrought-iron gates
of R. Lachman, of Warrawee, but there
is grace in their austere and formal
curves. A teaset with kangaroo motif by
Myrtle Innes should interest the Stafford-
shire pottery firms that are ransacking
the world for distinctive designs, and the
fabrics made by Mr. and Mrs. Quick
capture the spirit of spring in their
dynamic gaiety. Mabel Corbett, with
inlays of felt, has fabricated a fire-screen
so gorgeously warm in design that it
might serve as substitute for a fire, and
Miss K. M. Hall shows that the art of
the illuminated manuscript lives despite
centuries of printers. There are a hun-
dred other exhibits that have some claim
to mention—applied art almost invariably
preserves a vigor far in excess of the
purely pictorial or plastic creations of a
period—but catalogues can be obtained
free by anyone who cares to visit the
show.


sS
X
»s
A*
jyjT*: •: " ,? ."
<V
£
S'
BB rvni
nr
111
i;w
*S
£
irP
S 3
&
fig
. . . then the onJy
hotel that can offer
you this is
’THE WENTWORTH
£
&
&
&
o
4
o
m>.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery'
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
EYE LOTIOI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE L Co. Ltd. Kinq St. Sydne>
Legal Notice.
JESSIE MAUD BEATTY (or ELIZABETH
McCOOK), of Smedmore, near Newcastle,
N.S.W., Deceased. For Notice for next-of-kin,
see issue of this paper, October 30, 1935.
Missing Friends
KELLY, JOHN HAMILTON, age about 50
years, believed to be in Sydney or Melbourne,
will hear something to his advantage if he
communicates with the NATIONAL TRUS-
TEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There are “no guests star-scattered on
the grass” this week in Sydney. They are
all busy glittering on the lawns of
Fleminglon. Socially, the Harbor City
has turned down an empty glass, watch-
ing with indulgent smile her best-gilded
girls and boys rush southwards for the
Cup.
Sydney’s new Mayor has called a con-
ference to go into the question of child
malnutrition raised by Prof. Harvey
Sutton. If Chief Alderman McElhone
had planned for a year he could not
have chosen a better way to win woman’s
heart. There’s to be nothing kept hidden.
Once the 20 specialists who will start
their discussion on November 14 come to
agreement their findings will be made
public. In spite of the depression Sydney
is a rich city, but of what use its riches,
its glad skies, if in its streets children
walk wanly, insufficiently or improperly
fed?
Helen Stephen married her Colonel
Tom Rutledge, of Gidleigh, Bungendore,
just after midday one fine day last week.
Colin Stephen squired his cider daughter
to St. Mark’s at Darling Point, and the
bride looked radiant in her hyacinth-pink
crepe frock, its little pleated cape caught
with a turquoise clasp. Her rose-red hat
was halo in shape, and pink orchids were
her flowers. Orchids, 100, were worn by
sister Philippa and Mollie Street. Both
wore frocks and hats of blue. Denis
Allen was best man, and Alistair Stephen
lent a hand. Bronwyn Poole, fluffy and
fair, scattered rose-leaves with a lavish
hand on the bride and bridegroom. Llan-
dillo, the Colin Stephen home at Belle-
vue Hill, spread a lunch party, only rela-
tions and intimates invited.
The most impressive moments in “The
Hound of Heaven” presentation were
supplied by John Gould’s voice.
Sonorous, yet clear-cut as the fall of
hailstones, it swept the length and
breadth of the crowded Great Hall of
the University. These verse-speaking
choirs take a bit of getting used to. But
if all are as decorative as the University
one, the eye will be soothed, even if the
ear isn’t always completely charmed.
There were three groups of maidens
dressed in toe-length frocks of cream
muslin, the skirts very full on to Jong
medireval bodices. Their heads were
wreathed with dark-red roses —the effect
very Rossetti-ish. Kathleen Cape was
responsible for the designing. Crusaders,
monks, choir boys with high tapers and
heralds were massed on the wide tessel-
lated dais against the Gobelin (or so it
seemed) tapestry that was its background.
With a magnificent orange-and-choco-
late mat on the wall behind him, Minister
for Education Drummond stood on the
dais, between Miss Fairfax and Florence
Sulman, and opened the Arts and Crafts
show. Each added a bit of color to the
composition. The Minister wore a red
flower in his buttonhole, Miss Fairfax
wore her black frock with the handsome
lace bells in its sleeves, and Miss Sulman
(who, incidentally, gave a party on Cup
Day right in the thick of the applied arts)
was a study in caramel browns. Dorothy
Senior, who won the prize of five guineas
for her competitive design, introduced a
bit of the jungle in her short grey fur
coat, and a bit of Russia in her hat,
which was of Cossack style. “Lady
Feeding Swans” is the title of her piece.
It is of black and shiny composition, and
of flowing line. Muriel McDearmid, of
Brisbane, came second with a wine jar
in buff and sienna brown.
Dorothea Mackellar was a buyer ; so
was Mrs. Stirling Levis, another wearer
of grey fur of untamed origin. While
buying a hand-wrought poker and tongs
she whispered that a one-act play of hers
submitted for a competition run by the
Elizabeth Everard one-act-play theatre in
London got into the finals ; Lord Dun-
sany and Sybil Thorndyke were the
judges. Dolly Hollander Moore’s red-
and-cream-checked Russian coat was
worn with a currant-red skirt and a
currant-red crinoline straw hat. Mrs.
A. T. Clinton discussed the coming show
of the Women’s Industrial Arts with
Phyllis Shillito, of the Technical College.
A sari as tenderly blue as the haze
over the Blue Mountains was the gaze-
arrester at the final Budapest Quartet
recital. It was worn, not by a daughter
of Asia, but by a tall good-looker
with blue eyes. Everybody came to this
concert to hear the modern programme.
Music is music within or without the
sliprails, so every woman sat back and
went luscious listening to the work of
Hindemith. The Bartok and Prokofieff
didn’t make the shoulder posy nearly so
tremulous. The whole Bainton family
was again in place ; so were the D’Abra-
vanels. Mrs. Erik Langker was one of
the prettiest.
Mrs. C. L. Jones’s rose-red frock, its
cape deeply edged with white arctic fox,
was a heartache to many ; so was Lorna
Searl's cascade of green orchids. There
was a suggestion of Mary Queen of Scots
about the black velvet and deep white
pointed collar worn by the fair Mrs.
Dangerfield. Phyllis Nicholson’s chiffons
had sleeves like bluebells. Chief Justice
Jordan’s wife wedded black and gold ;
Clara Butter, tall and blonde, wrapped
her shoulders in a chenille cape.
Vicki Gordon is one of the young de-
pendables of the committee working all
the year round for the Industrial Blind.
Just now the Domestic Science section
of the Hobbies Exhibition, which opens
on November 15 and will benefit the
institution, has most of Vicki’s time. The
rest is taken up rushing about in her
car carrying out commissions for Mrs.
A. V. Roberts, organising secretary of
the women’s auxiliary. Method governs
her many activities, proving there’s some-
thing in heredity. Vicki’s father is T. S.
Gordon, managing director of shipping
firm Birt and Co. Freeman photo.
Mayoress McElhone has stepped into
her dance without any prologue. Hardly
had she turned the key in her civic re-
ception-room door than she was hostess
and guest at two musicales. One was to
aid the City Mission, and after listening
to superintendent padre S. A. McDonald
the complacent feeling that all one’s
neighbors had full and plenty was slightly
dented, and a trickle of icy water in-
vaded the cosiness. Of great interest to
the visitors were the photographs of the
children’s homes at Bowral and Spring-
wood run by the mission. The Crown-
street Women’s Hospital benefited by the
second party. This time Mrs. McElhone
hostessed, and daughter Mabel was her
aide. Flowers and music were above
reproach. The wife of the Conserva-
torium’s Dr. Bainton was among the
musicians; so was violinist Marjorie
Hambridge.
Sydney people didn't forget that
though the members of the Viennese
Choir were artists they were also boys,
and presents of sweets, fruit and cakes
accompanied farewells. The youngsters
have made innumerable friends. Their
manners are perfection. One night m
the dressing-room, a well-known horo-
scope enthusiast was examining their
hands and working out their stars. He
had just concluded with Erich, the
romantic lead, when that bright lad re-
membered there was something missing.
Quickly he thrust back his hand, and
said naively “Hoo many wives?” * All
the youngsters’ questions weren’t directed
to their success in the artistic world.
At least two desire to be champion
boxers.
When Australia's new Chief Justice
came to Sydney to be sworn-in, his smil-
ing wife accompanied him. This is
Dorothy Welding’s photograph of knight
John Latham’s lady.
Singer Marie Brown, now deep in
study with the successful Dorothy Helm-
rich, once of Sydney, writes of her
teacher, who gave a tea-party for her in
the Tower of London (axes and blocks
presumably having a day off). Here she
met Miss Burke, stepsister . to William
Thomas Cosgravc, of the Irish Free State.
Marie is to spend the week before Christ-
mas with her in Dublin, where Miss
Burke, a singer, is on the staff of the
Leinster College. Isabel Crowdy, who
was Lady Game’s social secretary in
Sydney and now helps the Orient Co. to
settle problems of newly-arrived Aus-
tralians in London, is another good
friend. The two were just off to the first
English version of “Boris Godounov” at
Sadler’s Wells.
If there is one thing Mrs. Bertie Kelly
can do better than all the things she does
well, it is arrange a fete. Last Friday she
divulged to a group of friends in her
new home at Darling Point that she is
organising a fair for St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital. This will be held on Valentine’s
Day next, and will be modelled on the
lines of the old German Nuremberg
festival. There will be choral, solo, instru-
mental and dancing contests. Brightly
painted poles, hung with gay pennons,
will deck the grounds of the hospital,
where the fair will be held. Each stall
will represent a country, and sell that
country’s particular goods. The stall-
holders, too, will be dressed in costume.
Owners of the small halls in Sydney
must be reaping a golden harvest. The
promoters of Drama Week found the
scarcity of houses their first snag ; almost
everything capable of holding two dozen
people is booked up till Christmas. The
Emerson Hall, opposite Hyde Park, will
be the chief rooftree of the drama dur-
ing the week, and here, on the opening
night, three one-acters by Australian
writers will be presented. The Junior
Theatre League is starting the movement,
and the idea is to make it a yearly event.
Each year a different little theatre group
will sponsor the week. This year Fay
Hornby, Jeanie Ranken and John Gould
are tutoring the fledgling in its first flight.
From November 13 to 17 members of
the Roman Catholic hierarchy will pour
into Sydney. On the fourteenth the new
Cerretti Memorial chapel in St. Pat-
rick’s Seminary, Manly, will be conse-
crated by Sydney Coadjutor-Archbishop
Sheehan. The ceremony will take four
hours, and will commence at seven o’clock
in the morning. There will be five assis-
tant bishops from the sees of Bathurst,
Armidale, Goulburn, Maitland and Wil-
cannia-Forbes. Brisbane and Adelaide,
too, are sending wearers of the mitre.
Special pilgrimage trains are being run
from the north and south into Sydney,
and special ferries will take the visitors
to Manly. From Newcastle alone come
2000 men and women. A lunch at the
Australia, a reception and dance at the
Town Hall and a garden party at St.
Vincent's, Potts Point, are some of the
sociabilities arranged for the guests.
Unlike violent exercise such as murder
or tennis, chess seems a pre-eminently suit-
able diversion for those with high blood
pressure. Still, according to Gregory
Koshnitsky, now engrossed in the details
of the N.S.W. women’s championship,
the game proves very exciting, especially
to the girl player. Though, he takes
care to add, women players conform with
grace to all the rules and regulations
governing the play.
Games are played every evening in
the staff library of Anthony Horderns’,
and here players as young as 16 ponder
the moves of king and pawn. One of
the youngest is Loaline Lancaster, tall
and fair. Though women get excited
over their problems, this does not mean
they rush their play ; already two games
of this championship have been lost on
time. The play is quicker than in the
men’s contests—24 moves an hour, as
against the male’s 18. For the last four
years the N.S.W. and minor champion-
ships have run concurrently, and each
year the number of entrants increases.
At present 10 are contesting the big
and 12 the minor event. Among the
former are present holder of the cham-
pionship Edna Kingston and violinist
iVlignon Frey. When this Letter slipped
into its pink overall Mignon was leading.
Young Sydney of the ’nineties enjoyed
dances at the Paddington Town Hall.
The.hall still lives up to its renown, and
last week the Glowworm Ball attracted
dancers from even the north side of the
harbor. The dance was a before-Christ-
mas effort of a junior committee working
for the Industrial Blind Institution. Pad-
dington’s Mayor Bates, his wife and
Doreen Bates were in the official group.
Further aldermanic dignity was added by
T, J. Whelan. A cluster of demure debs.,
their brows wreathed in silver leaves,
their hands clasping white-and-silver
posies of early Victorian primness against
the white and silver of their frocks, were
presented to the Clifton Love couple.
The pinks and blues of the hydrangea
were wed in the raiment of Mrs. A. L.
Diehl, who shepherdessed the lambkins.
Pink as a briar rose were the satins and
laces of the Clifton Love lady. A five-
year-old, Pat Reid, in a petalled frock
of pink taffeta, scattered rose leaves on
the path the debs. trod.
When a Guarnerius worth a thousand
guineas comes to a man’s party on a
Sunday night it’s up to the rest of the
music to be of equal quality. Milton
Chick saw that it was. Besides Lloyd
Davies, who played the precious violin,
Richard Watson, of Gilsullivan renown,
Gladys Verona, Marjory Davidson and
others unleashed voices of Town Hall
size in the Blackstone flat. A trio of
pianists brought the grace of Schubert,
Beethoven and Chopin into the proceed-
ings. Clever accompanist Margaret
Chalmers, very sparkling above burgundy
crepes, told of a welter of eisteddfod
engagements. At midnight Ken Lawson
described one singer as having the stars
above the Wicklow hills and Xhe lakes
of Killarney in his voice. The party was
such a success that everybody knew
what he meant.


DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Himes
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE.
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Mel bourn
Chatter
Points about the Derby were gardenias
—last year it was lily-of-the-valley on
every lapel—brightly colored gloves,
quilted coats of taffeta and every second
hat With a guardsman's peak over the
forehead. These hats started off in all
innocence as jockey caps, but the peaks
have grown larger and larger at an
alarming rate. Pat Thwaites wore one
of the most noticeable, but it was of
velvet and not such a dangerous weapon
to the eyes and noses of the crowd as
the sharp-cornered straw models. Betty
Erswell’s farmyard buttons deserve a
line to themselves; they were ducklings
with yellow bills and red wings.
Black and navy-blue were most
prominent color schemes. One girl in
two shades of blue, navy and turquoise,
found a successful climax with hat, bag
and lipstick of the same shade of vivid
tomato. A black velvet postillion hat
with its crown full of ospreys made one
think of “Home James, and don’t spare
the horses.”
Mrs. Arnold Henderson was tall and
striking in black spotted with while, an
ornamental touch being an elaborate
chromium belt buckle. Her daughter
Daphne wore a navy and white figured
suit, a quaint little hat made from a
circular rim of straw and an eye-veil—
there was no top in the crown to hide
this English visitor’s beautifully waved
hair. In spite of the weather, Mrs.
Geoffrey Symc was in royal purple
chiffon and a huge purple hat trimmed
with feather cockades. Phyllis Timmins
used Persian lamb as chief ingredient
for her Cossack cap and the cape of her
grey coat. Margaret Shcrwin wore navy-
blue, Mrs. Noel Russell was all in black
and Mrs. Harry Rosenthal’s high spot
was one of the new Oriental scarves
of stiffened metallic tissue. It was
swathed round her shoulders and pushed
through slots in the front of her oatmeal-
colored suit. Oskar Denes displayed all
his teeth and a carnation the size of a
small cabbage.
Knight John Latham (as president of
the Australian Law Council) and his
lady gave a late-afternoon party in honor
of the members of the Australian Legal
Convention. The Latham couple never
really get a chance to enjoy their own
parties ; they work too hard. In the hall
of Flete they shook hands with incoming
guests from 4.30 to 6.30, with scarcely
a break except for good-byes with the
outward bound. The reception-rooms
bristled with legal brains, and on all
sides one heard “Did you go to the
dinner?” (Apparently it had been a
very good dinner.) Villeneuve Smith,
K. with his pink carnation, his
monocle and his famous wit, could be
located all the afternoon next to the
Chinese dragon lamp in the drawing-
room. In the dining-room Judge Drake-
Brockman and John Turnbull conversed
over sherry, and Justice Evatt made a
weighty decision among the savories.
Among the guests were Justice Dixon ;
Colonel and Mrs. Frank Derham ; the
C. H. A. Eagers, Mrs. Eager wearing a
navy-and-whitc patterned dress; Nor-
man O’Bryan and his wife, her shoulders
hidden by silver foxes; Mr. and Mrs.
L. R,. Stillman, the lady in a navy coat
of fingertip length over her flowered
frock ; Mr. and Mrs. Vivian Abraham,
she in a beige ensemble; Mrs. A. S.
Wilkinson, in black with a white ermine
collar. The Moulden lady was all white
lace, expensive ermine stole, a-dangle
with tails, and a huge picture-hat. She
now travels almost everywhere by air.
At the Naval and Military Club Ball
the v.-r. guests, instead of being rushed
straight on to the dais, were swept up-
stairs for an interlude of something long
and cold or short and stimulating. Lead-
ing the procession between the lines of
gunners and scarlet ropes was Flighl-
Lieut. Freddie Thomas (quite used to
being an aide after over a year’s experi-
ence). In the rearguard were the
Governor-General and Lady Isaacs, who
have not appeared at a Melbourne ball
for many months. Captain Bracegirdle
is the complete military aide. Instead
of his naval uniform he now wears
official pale-blue facings.
All mess trousers are tight, but an
example of how light colors make them
appear fighter was provided by a stran-
ger to Melbourne, a wiry young officer
of Punjabis, his unusual uniform orna-
mented with brass dragons upon the
lapels. Mrs. O. F. Phillips dazzled the
eye with her coat-of-mail gown of gold
sequins. Mrs. Desmond Barrington’s
gunmetal taffeta dress was made with
great attention towards bouffant sleeves.
Col. Tom Slaoey’s wife wore white with
dangling fringes to the knee-lines. Alison
Cook’s white matelasse was spattered
with silver, and Mrs. Frank Faulkner's
creamy satin was draped with turquoise
ninon about the V neck. Kingsford
Smith’s lady wore blue with a cut-out
back and a burst of tulips upon her
shoulder—last week she had 20 minutes’
chat with her husband by overseas tele-
phone. Electrical-Commander Cress-
well’s wife wore gold flowers on her
shoulder, and Joan Kirton fixed three
lilies to the corsage of her treacle-brown
taffeta. Supper was worth waiting (and
fighting) for; it was difficult to arrive
at owing to everybody getting hungry at
the same time.
Here is a Broothorn portrait of 19-
years-old Nancy Moffatt, whose exhibi-
tion of water-colors and pen-and-ink
studies was opened to-day (6th) in
Margaret Maclean’s gallery by Harold
Gengoult Smith. Nancy, whose skill with
her pencil first won recognition with her
exhibition for drawing in her Leaving
Honors year at Korowa Girls’ Grammar
School, is now a third-year student at
the National Gallery. She is the pos-
sessor of a gold star and three silver stars
awarded for her work sent to the Royal
Drawing Society's Exhibition at the
Guildhall, London. Her specialty at
present is figure studies, particularly
children, and she likes to let her imagina-
tion free in kindergarten decorations.
The first ball organised by the com-
bined committees working for the Mercy
Hospital was held at Earl’s Court on a
night of rain and storm, snatched right
out of the middle of winter. At the
entrance to the ballroom, where the
knights in armor cast solemn stares over
the frivolous twentieth century, Mrs.
E. L. Kiernan kept her right hand free
to welcome the guests, her left hand
fully occupied with deep-red roses. Hon.
sec. Mrs. J. A. Merlo wore carnation-
pink lace merging into ripples of chiffon
frills round the skirt, and two water-
lilies —a delightful choice for her blonde
coloring. Pat O’Connor was also all pink
and white, whisks of pink tulle and
rosebuds around her shoulders. Mrs.
J. T. Flanaghan, in black sequins, and
Mona Nugent, in white and a crystal
necklace, sold drinks in the cause of
charity. Mrs. D. W. Vaughan’s pink
cloque crepe was scattered with stars,
and a feather cape swept like a pinky
cloud from her shoulders. The Ray Con-
nollys were there, Mrs. Connolly in black
taffeta with a swathe of scarlet round her
waist. Mrs. Montgomery Fawcett wore
cyclamen and a coiffure of shoulder-
sweeping length. Mrs. C. W. Batten, one
of the hospital’s most sincere workers,
was in flowered crepe. Mrs. Olney
Thomas also chose a patterned material
for the gown which accompanied her
little sapphire velvet coat. Mrs. A. J.
Black garbed herself in petunia-shaded
ninon ; Tynka Lucini was in pink con-
trasted with an effervescent green
feather ; and Kath Hanrahan. who ac-
companied Bill Scarff, wore black velvet
ornamented with water-lilies.
Harold Gengoult Smith, deputising for
the Lord Mayor, found himself for the
fourth year in succession declaring the
spring rose show open in the Town Hall.
Up on platform also was Valerie
Purves, now getting quite used to mak-
ing speeches. Wearing a large windmill
hat of black crinoline straw with her ice-
blue-and-black tunic suit, and clasping
her presentation bouquet of red roses.
Miss Purves solicited contributions for
the queen of the roses and the kinder-
gartens. Alister Clark, creator of Black-
boy. Sunny South and several other
varieties of roses, sent down a great dis-
play from his garden at Bulla. Among
rosanans present were the Russell Grim-
wade couple. Mrs. Rupert Downes, in a
Madonna-halo hat of navy taffeta, Mrs.
Fred Rae, Frank Clarke and his
Mrs. I roedel, casting a critical eye over
the table decorations, and Mrs. Eric
Harrison, whose spring-fashion news was
beneath her cape. To match the blouse,
the lining was navy, coin-spotted with
white. The cape itself was of oatmeal
lightweight woollen tweed.
Small Anna Sarscn, aged nine, had
important work to do one day last week
in connection with the International
Club. Anna wore a pink print dress, and
stayed in the background of the kitchen,
where she filled the role of interpreter
between her mother and the club’s “help”
over the making of coffee in the Czecho-
slovakian manner. The Sarscns have
been Australian two years, and Anna’s
is the best English in the family.
Hostesses for the afternoon came from
India and Czecho-Slovakia. One of the
dishes was an Indian cake, moist, soft,
the color of putty and decorated
with almonds. There were krapfen
(sugared buns as large as oranges—a
meal in themselves) and jjternice na
chleb (a curry paste spread upon a kind
of black bread). Murrium Deen. wear-
ing her national costume of embroidered
sari, baggy trousers of thin green cotton
material and quaint little Indian shoes,
was present with her sister, Mrs. E.
Pearn, of Queensland.
Pat Moore was escorted by her brother
Denis to the chancel steps of St. John’s,
where her mother waited to give her,
through the blessing of the Rev. Law,
into the safe keeping of Robert Burns
Cuming. The bridal gown of ivory
taffeta broke into flounces at the ankles
and along the hem of the long train, and
a trail of orange-buds crept downwards
from the front of the neck, with its
demure ruffle. Sole attendant Margaret
Heath buckled a belt of silver kid round
her mermaid-green frock, very full and
fluffy as to sleeves and skirt. Her hat
of stiffened net was turned up off the
face with a decided sweep, and her
flowers were lilies-of-the-valley. After-
wards Mrs. Charles Moore held a recep-
tion at her home in Orrang-road. Many
Adelaide visitors were among the guests,
for the ’groom comes from the S.A.
capital.
Here is an Edwin-Adamson portrait
of Paddy Wilkinson, younger daughter
of Mrs. R. S. Helby, of South Yarra.
Miss Wilkinson, as queen of the violet
in the carnival competition, has the sup-
port of the motor, oil and rubber indus-
tries, most of the missions, some orphan-
ages and baby homes- and institutions
dealing with “problem boys” and “way-
ward girls.” For the violet queen
“Wedding Bells,” a three-act comedy
organised by Ruth Connibere and Mabel
Sankley, will ring at Central Flail on
November 7. For her carnival money-
box, also. Miss Wilkinson has thought
out something really original in the way
of baby shows. The date is November
23, the site Melb. Town ,Hall, and the
judges six young bachelors —Dr. Geof
Pern, Esmond Jones, lan Heath, Tom
Dickson, Balcombe Griffiths and Dick
Wilkinson.
At the wedding on Saturday of
Heather Spry and Dr. Bowen Allen,
C. H. Book, proposing the toast of the
evening, won his first applause by
reminding everybody that it was Derby
Day, and that the first two races had
been won by horses called Link Divine
and Fidelity. Then he proceeded to
make one of the best speeches ever heard
at a wedding. Mr. Book understands
the technique of oratory, though as
Crown Prosecutor his speeches have
mostly run along lines far removed from
marriage felicitations. Dr. and Mrs.
Allen are keeping the destination of their
honeymoon a secret, but one of their
wedding presents, a wonderful hamper
containing everything for serving picnic
eats and drinks, was among their most
important luggage, and the end of a
leisurely motor tour is often Sydney.
In 1917 Norton Grimwade and his
brothers, all Melbourne Grammar old
boys, presented a piece of land to the
school. On this land now stand the
Prep. School and the chapel of Grim-
wade House, where a wedding was
solemnised for the first time last week.
The "groom was Gordon, youngest son
of Mr. and Mrs. Norton Grimwade, and
the bride was Bernice, only daughter of
Mrs. and Mrs. Bernard Briggs, of
Benalla. It was a wedding without tulle,
orange-blossom or attendants, but 200
schoolboys formed a guard of honor for
the young couple as they left the chapel.
The bride’s tailored ensemble of oatmeal
cloque crepe had a swinging back of
narrow pleats, her large hat was of
golden-brown velvet, and deep-yellow
roses were pinned to her brown bag.
Alter the ceremony Dr. and Mrs. Hubert
Bush, assisted by the parents of the bride
and ’groom, gave a late-afternoon party
at their home in Caulfield.
In aid of Christ Church College fund
Mrs. Fed Dyson filled her barn with
music and her house with bridge and
poker. In the barn, decorated with
Juno’s prancing nymphs and other fanci-
ful expeditions into art, the Christ
Church College boys interspersed with
sea chanties a programme of music ar-
ranged by Jessie Smith. Among the
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Bill Swanson,
who had no anchorages, but preferred to
chat with the freelances on the veran-
dah ; Mrs. Wallie Tunbridge, in blue and
a white coat; Mr. and Mrs. J. N.
McNicol, and C. B. Moore and his
daughter Doris, who chose the concert.
Elaine and Hersey Brookes are home
again with their heads full of London
parties, theatres and clothes and the flat
which Elaine has all ready for her occu-
pation as Mrs. Reginald Bessemer Clark.
The apartment should be charming dur-
ing its tenure —it's not planned for a
long life, and its pastel carpets and white
moire curtains will rejoice the hearts of
the dry-cleaners. It will be difficult for
the young Bessemer Clarks to find space
to stow all their wedding presents. The
Norman Brookes couple returned home
via America ; Mrs. Norman adores the
States, and nearly always manages her
trips by that route.
Mrs. Andrew Cunningham has arrived
on another visit to Australia, and is be-
ing welcomed by friends and relatives in
Melbourne and Geelong. Under her
wing is niece Helen Latham, a lass who
has just left school and is having her
first look at this part of the world. Helen
is a daughter of artist Harold Latham,
who exhibited his pictures in Melbourne
last year. Her mother was Ruby Blyth,
formerly of Melbourne.
Having been abroad as a member of
the Empire Association Parliamentary
Delegation, Dr. vStanley Argyle. with his
lady, arrived home last week. Mrs. Eric
Hills accompanied her parents on their
travels and shared with them the festi-
vities of garden parties, receptions and
an interesting banquet at the Merchant
Tailors’ Guildhall, where the guests ate,
as in the old Grimm's fairy-tale, from
gold plate and drank from a golden
loving-cup. Part of the Guildhall ritual
was the passing round of a gold bowl
filled with rose-scented water. Each
guest must dip a corner of his or her
napkin into the water and with it damp
a spot behind the ears.
A new invention in camellias comes
from the U.S.A. It is a creamy-white,
and so lifelike that noses, eyes and fingers
have to think twice before they arc sure
that it is man-made, not grown in a
garden. When it gets grubby it should
be dipped in soapsuds, but not rinsed
afterwards ; for a freshening up it goes
into the ice-box for an hour or two. Mrs.
Jimmy Clymer has a specimen of this
rival to nature.


First Expedition to DUNK ISLAND
Summer Vacation on this Romantic Isle
4'
m
WfiW*'
mmu:
Aii expedition will start during the summer
vacation tor the islands and portions of tlic
(treat Burlier Reef between Townsville and
Cairns, with headquarters at l)unk Island. •
There will be opportunities for nature
study of all kinds, especially for explorations
of the varied and fascinating marine life of
the Reef. Bird lovers, marine zoologists,
shell collectors, fishermen, botanists and
school-teachers are especially invited to join
the expedition.
From Bunk Island, daily excursions will
be made with the shortest amount of sea
travel possible in tin# (18 footer Diesel yacht
‘‘Sunbeam.”
The places to be visited will include Palm
Island —with its interesting aboriginal settle-
ment—Hiuclitnbrook Island. Garden and
Barnard Islands, as well as the Family Group
of Islands.
There will l>c swimming, big game fishing
and Reef fishing, ulso turtle riding and
dugcmg hunting.
Seven bungalows have been built contain-
ing single and double rooms, with electric
light baths and septic systems, whilst a
first-class French Chef will provide excellent
menus.
The date of the expedition has been fixed
for early in December, and specially reduced
fares from every station in Australia are
available if applied for at the Queensland
(lovemment Tourist Bureaux at. Brisbane,
Sydney and Melbourne —where illustrated in-
formative booklets may be obtained, and
where, early booking is advisable.
Travel by Northern tourist steamers is
also possible.
The Manager, Monsieur Frederic Treulhardt,
will be in attendance at the Melbourne Bureau
from November 4 to November 9, and at the
Sydney Bureau from November 11 to
November 19.
851
es
HOLIDAY TRIPS
IN
COOL TASMANIA
THE IDEAL SUMMER HOLIDAY
By combining a visit to Tasmania with the plea-
sure of a sea voyage on one of the modern P & O
Liners you are assured of a perfect holiday.
In Tasmania the weather is cool and invigorating
and excursions to the various places of scenic
beauty may be enjoyed under ideal conditions.
TO HOBART TO MELBOURNE
From Sydney Via Hobart
R.M.S. NARKUNDA LEAVES SYDNEY fEB. 6
R.M.S. MOLDAVIA LEAVES SYDNEY FEB. 19
R.M.S. MOOLTAN LEAVES SYDNEY MAR. 4
R.M.S. MALOIA LEAVES SYDNEY APRIL 1
Single Fares:
To Hobart
First Saloon £5 10 0
Tourist Class from £3 10 0
To Melbourne via Hobart
First Saloon £9 10 0
Tourist Class from £6 0 0
TO BURNIE
R.M.S. MALOJA LEAVES DEC. 13
R.M.S. COMORIN LEAVES JAN. 10
Single Fares:
First Saloon £4/10. Second Saloon £3/15. Tourist Class from £2/15.
Fares are free of Exchange
Tickets are interchangeable with the Orient
and Aberdeen and Commonwealth Lines.
Inclusive tours will be quoted on application.
Principal Agents :
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Classt
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 Bent Street, Sydney.
p*o
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Hunt Club put on point-to-point
races for the first time for 10 years. Scores
of cars purred out to the venue at the
back of Dunreath golf club, and parked
in the centre of the field, where picnic-
hampers were unpacked. Spectators who
came without fieldglasses could easily
follow the bright silks and jockey caps
of competitors. Edna Smily, with brown
stripes on her emerald greens, and
Sheila Hayes—the sleeves of her bright-
blue shirt were pillarbox red —were
favorites in the women’s event, but Doris
Colliver’s green-and-purple was first in.
The ebb of luncheon guests from the
Duntroon was followed by a wave of
feminine visitors 800 strong. Captain
Lloyd and Melbourne Steamship Co.’s
manager J. Munro (with his other half’s
marine-blue crepes to starboard) stemmed
the flow at the top of the gangway, and
directed it into tour-of-inspection
channels.
Joyce Rossitcr was several centuries
earlier than her attendants in the period
frocks worn at her marriage to John
Dunphy. Her mediaeval ivory satins
tapered to a long fishtail train, overset by
the cloudy tulle veil, with its edging of
rose Chantilly lace. Mollie Dunphy and
Phyllis Tweedie were nineteenth-century
in their tropic-sky taffetas, shirred and
scalloped, and topped by flower-backed,
tip-tilted hats. Black weblike lace flowed
from Mrs. Rossiter’s surcoat of georgette
as she murmured aftermath welcomes at
the Savoy.
Prof, and Mrs. A. D. Ross (she with
a cluster of pink roses at the shoulder
of her black laces) were at home to 250
guests at the physics department of the
University. First there was a general
quizzing of the newly opened buildings
(with scientific demonstrations as a side-
line) ; next, a halt in the lecture theatre
for a talk by the host and musical items
by Alice Mallon, June Epstein, Zipah
Feldman and Clee Jenkins ; then a trek
to the general laboratory for informal
supper.
James Anderson, examiner for the
A.M.E.B. in Art of Speech, was the lion
of the Elocution Teachers’ Association
gathering in the Methodist lounge. Presi-
dent Mrs. A. S. McClintock, with spec-
tacular apricot georgette sleeves to her
nut-brown velvets, was in the box seat
next sec. Ethel Gordon’s black velvets
and treasurer Miss Kildea’s cream lace.
Dorothy Mark arranged the programme,
with Thelma Berry, Tess Smallpage, Pat
Hannah and S. Morley as contributing
artists.
While their husbands were being enter-
tained by the Lud Mayor, the wives of
R.A.C. conference delegates sipped tea
at the municipal chambers with Mabel
Teather and her other guests. The hostess
was neat and sweet in parchment linen,
with baby blue accessories ’gainst a back-
ground of watsonias and stocks.
The Orion sailed into Fremantle
Harbor ’neath blue skies and the first
warm rays of the sun in weeks. Among
its complement of passengers were Sir
William Campion, an ex-Governor of
W.A., mining magnate Claude de Bernales
with daughter Betty, and Mrs. F. Barnett
and son Cleve, who went on to Mel-
bourne for the Cup.
Florence Armstrong, who is in the
presidential chair of the Pleiades Club
and the University Women’s Assoc., has
promised to give up her geological labors
for the Western Mining Corporation and
start housekeeping in Rabaul with
William Townsend.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Jean Butler, the Premier’s pretty
daughter, was joint hostess with her sis-
ter, Mrs. Neil McEwin, at a sherry
party at the home of Mrs. McEwin,
Medindie. Miss Butler has been in a
whirl of parties, ever since her return
from overseas.
Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Jackett, accom-
panied by their daughter Coralie, have
returned to their home at Armadale, Vic-
toria, after a brief visit to attend the
marriage, at Maughan Church, of their
son, F. Jackett, to Daphne Mary,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. Barr Scott,
Woodland, Kersbrook. The bride wore
white satin, and the bridesmaids were in
ice-blue matelasse with coronets of silver
leaves, and their shower bouquets were
pink. Two sisters of the bride and the
bridegroom’s sister Coralie attended her.
News comes from England of Helen
Taylor, the young Adelaide singer whose
friends thought it worth while to give
her the chance of a career abroad. In
the musical world she is known as Helen
Adela. She has just returned to Lon-
don after a successful season in opera
at Copenhagen.
Belle Craig, of Melbourne, prior to
her return after a three weeks’ visit as
guest of Mrs. W. W. McGregor, North
Adelaide, gave a luncheon party at the
Wentworth. Flowers were pink and
mauve, and the hostess wore a dark-
green tailor-made, and a hat to match
in felt with a red band.
Seven dance clubs combined in giving
a ball in aid of Kuitpo Colony and the
D.N.S. at the Palais Royal. The Gov-
ernor attended, and was received by the
Rev. S. Forsyth, representing Kuitpo, and
Dr. H. A. Powell, for the society, with
the chairman of the ball, S. Kruger. The
Palais was crowded to the limit.
After the unveiling of a bronze com-
memorating the fact that a draft of the
Australian Constitution was prepared at
St. Mark’s College (at (hat time the resi-
dence of John Downer, father of J. F.
Downer, who performed the ceremony),
the master (Dr. A. Grenfell Price) and
Mrs. Price entertained guests who had
been invited to inspect the college on its
tenth anniversary and have afternoon-
tea. Mrs. Price received gowned in
black marocain, the yoke and full elbow
sleeves being of black chiffon with inserts
of fine black lace. Her hat was a balli-
buntal black straw, and she wore a posy
of pale-pink and blue flowers. Tea was
served in the drawing-room and in the
ballroom upstairs, the students doing the
honors. Massed pink roses, pink wat-
sonia and mauve irises decorated. Mrs.
Darcy Addison (second wife of the late
John Downer) was present with her son,
Alec Downer, of Bridgewater. She wore
a wine-toned ensemble and a fell hat to
match. Mrs. J. F. Downer was in a navy
toilette, with a small straw hat to tone
and a fox fur. Her daughter, Mrs.
H. W. Rymill, also chose navy in a flat
crepe and a navy straw hat. Premier
Butler’s wife cheered her black tailored
suit with a silver-fox fur.
TASMANIA.
The Show was the most successful
since pre-war days, but the sudden illness
of the president, J. Murdoch, was a sad-
dening feature. Among successful
women competitors in the jumping
entries were Barbara Bennett, Mrs. M.
F. Gibson and Miss E. Hartley. The
veteran After Dark won yet another prize
for his owner, J. Archer.
The Bankers’ Ball at the Continental
was one of the highlights of Show Week,
the two ballrooms being thronged. A.
J. Lewis and E. K. Connor were joint
secs. Supper was in the cafe, decked
with flowers of aureate hue.
The Naval and Military Ball in the
Masonic Hall and the clubhouse (where
non-dancers could play cards or bil-
liards) was a gay affair, military and
naval uniforms giving firm support to the
scenic effect. The president. Major W.
Ellis Cox, and, Mrs. Cox and vice-presi-
dent J. W. Turner and his better-half
received guests to the tune of about 450.
Flags, greenery, shaded lights and, in the
ballroom, green, gold and lemon decora-
tions transfigured the premises.
Stella Shone and Phyllis Swan were
joint secs, for the dance at the Continen-
tal just before the Show. Country visitors
were numerous. Among Midland and
northern pastoralists and their women-
folk were the John Fosters (Evandale),
the Alan Camerons (Ross), the Tom
Riggalls (Ross), the J. Archers (Conara)
and the F. Youls, while from further
afield came Kath Thomas (Melbourne),
Mrs. Sydney Laws (N.S.W.) and Jean
Buchanan (Sydney).
Mrs. Tom Murdoch and Mrs. B. Lang-
dale have been hard at it working up
the Women’s Industries exhibition all the
past year. The Nicholls lady opened the
affair, entries for which were more
numerous than last year’s. Mrs. A. R.
Totenhofer’s entry for the “One Woman’s
Work” class showed that the arts of
housewifery haven’t perished but are
being improved. There was some ex-
quisite needlework in the arts and crafts
section.
Dr. and Mrs. A. W. Shugg lent their
house for a bridge party in aid of the
Free Kindergarten. Nineteen tables were
occupied, and a welcome addition to the
society’s funds resulted.
Evan Crane gave a big party at Had-
ley’s to welcome her sister, Mrs. Cecil
Muschamp, from England on a visit.
Over 100 guests rolled up to shake hands
and renew acquaintance with the young
matron, who has brought her two young
children with her. The hostess was in
black-and-white with black hat, and her
sister in blue-spotted crepe and blue hat.
Big fires were welcome in spite of the
crowd, and Iceland poppies, weigela and
pink-and-white ranunculus made gay
decoration.


ķ
The “BRIDGE”
Brocaded Semi-Grecian Slippers.
In a color combination of black and
rose, and also blue and rose.
Soft cushion soles and high covered
Price 16/9 per pair.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
ĸ
In the Heart of Beautiful Germany
Buy for future -profitable selling at
tbe largest and oldest market In
the world. Newest inventions in
niecluxnical and labour-saving equip-
ment, latest styles in textiles, and
most modem industrial processes,
from 25 different countries, are dis-
played at prices that permit of most
satisfactory re-sale margins.
COMMENCES MARCH 1.
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office Equipment, Furniture,
Sports Goods, Engineering and Building and Photographic Fairs.
All Information, including Barter Arrangements, from:—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL. Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair,
Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O. Box No. 3127 P, Sydney. Phone: 81006.
L. MESSEI, Technical Adviser, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
G. N. KEPPEL, O/o Marcard and Co., 360 Post Office' Place; G.P.O. Box 1658,
Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERS'HAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Justice—N.T. Brand
“Arunta”: The N.T. “Government
Gazette” contains two full pages of the
new Prevention of Cruelty Ordinance. It
is a charming document, framed to meet
every contingency except inflicting pain
on mining shareholders, and there are
some clauses which would make a com-
missar rejoice:
19.—(1) Whenever a complaint is laid
against the driver or other person in
charge of any vehicle, whether licensed or
otherwise, for any offence against this
ordinance, the special magistrate or Jus-
tices before whom the complaint is laid
may forthwith summon the proprietor or
owner of the carriage or vehicle to pro-
duce before him the driver or other
employee by whom the offence was com-
mitted, or is alleged to have been com-
mitted, to answer the complaint.
And if ihe employee refuses to be pro-
duced, the proprietor may be not only
saddled with the penalty otherwise in-
flicted on the culprit but also lined 40s.
unless he can vamp up a “reasonable
excuse,” And the magistrate may order
the police to keep on serving summonses
on him and having him fined until he
turns up with the real sinner held firmly
by the collar. There is a principle that
a man can be punished only once for
his sins. Not in the N.T., where autocrats
arc real autocrats and law is made behind
closed doors with the stroke of a pen.
“The Powell”: Tennant’s Greek could
boast of having the dearest beer on the
continent —if it felt in the mood for
boasting. The price is Is. a “lady’s
waist.” A good name for the kind of
glass that starts amply at the top and
becomes slender in the middle,
. * * si! *
“Mataranka”: A bull buffalo has
terrorised Dunmara station, near Daly
Waters (N.T.). If was a long way off his
beat, and the inhabitants were lucky to
get off with only a blackboy killed.
Buffaloes are rarely seen south of the
Roper, unless conditions have changed
very much in the last few years, but
when (hey arc they are almost as wel-
come as a 12in. shell. Invariably they
have been thrown out of the herd, and
they roam the countryside spitting pro-
fanity and looking for something to push
a horn into. A buffalo in a bad temper is
about the ugliest customer in the world
lo have in the front garden. Dr. Fenton
was lucky to hit this one in a vital spot
with a high-power military rifle. I have
seen one holed in five places with a .303
without being bowled over.
* # * »
“Hambledon”: After years of travail,
the Barron Falls hydro-electricity
scheme has been completed, and will be
switched on on November 20 by the
Governor. It will revolutionise life over
a good deal of the district, and is a start-
ling example of the sort of progress
which is being made in the North. A
quarter of a century ago, the edges of
the country which the scheme will serve
were big scrub, as wild as when Captain
Cook passed by. In other parts, Chinese
maize cockies were just being pushed
out to make way for dairymen. To-day,
good roads buzz with motor traffic,
tourists flock over the range in the season
and electric cooking and machine opera-
tion have ceased to appear absurd and
distant fantasies.
* * * *
“X.T.”: If Mr. Forgan Smith lives up
to his present hopes, Queensland will put
up another new record. It will have sent
its Premier to London twice in three
years, each time to settle the fate of the
sugar industry. As a world sugar con-
ference has met here this year and there
are two large sugar associations in being,
one might have thought that some-
body else could have been spared.
But Mr. Smith says that “other coun-
tries, as well as Queensland, consider this
conference of the utmost importance, and
I support this view” ; so that’s that.
* * *
“Narine Cubby”: “F.Y.7’s” lockup (B.
23/10/’35) was a common type through-
out old-time Queensland. In ancient
days there was a log at Adavale to which
minor malefactors were chained. It
was too big to carry to the bar, and an
understanding constabulary, realising
that it was not natural for man to go
without liquor for 24 hours together, used
to call a daily truce and unloose the cap-
tives with the injunction “Mind you’re
home before dark.” It came to a bad
end at the hands of a newchum who bor-
rowed an axe while P.C. 49 was absent
on patrol. When the Law returned.
"You're a bit late, Dig. — it's nearly finished.”
“But it's only ha'-past eight, and the invite says the dahnce goes on
till midnight.”
“ Aw, that's right; but I'm talkin' about the beer.”
there was a neat heap of firewood but
no prisoner. It was always an official
grievance that “the cow look the bloom-
ing chain with him.”
Hi ;Jc $ s{c
“Bundamba”: Blair, C.J., who had his
K.C.M.G. hung on him by the Governor-
General in Sydney. is the most romantic
of all State Chief Justices. He is a
humorous little man with a Gilbertian
countenance reminiscent in manner of
the Hawkins tradition. As a young
counsel in Ipswich (Q.) he got into Par-
liament in his early thirties on the
strength of lucid oratory and two cam-
paign slogans: “Work for Jimmy—Wear
the White Flower of a Blameless Life”
and “Give Jimmy a Vote.” Everybody
in Ipswich wore a white flower during
that gay campaign. Within a year he
was Attorney-General. He was an early
motorist, and it was his big Panhard which
made the first' car trip through the
central-west of Queensland. He has
been a Judge since 1922 and C.J. since
1925.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
Sir Leslie went to the first Mercantile
Marine Ball held in Brisbane, and took
with him Lady Wilson, who wore orchid
satin and a pink feather scarf. Lennon's
ballroom provided the setting, and the
Missions to Seamen will get the proceeds.
Lots of nice sailormen from the ships in
port danced vigorously, and seemed to
have a good time. Max Way, president
of the committee, received the vice-royal-
ties, aided and abetted by Mrs. A. E.
Moore and Mrs. A. G. Webb. Green
pottery jars filled with rosy-pink snap-
dragons decked the corner occupied by
the official supper-table.
Clare Gilmore, a Sydney visitor, is
staying with Mrs. F. McDonnell at Clay-
field. Her hostess gave a party at
Lennon’s so that the visitor might get
acquainted with the local lasses.
Lilies, larkspurs, amaryllis and gladioli
filled St. John’s Cathedral with scent and
color for the wedding of Betty, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Douglas, and
Dudley, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. W.
Shadforth, of Sydney. The bride was in
angel-skin and tulle hood set with
orange-blossoms, from which the long
veil flowed. A sapphire-and-diamond
brooch, the 'groom’s gift, was her only
ornament, and she carried white water-
lilies. Dusty-pink flamisol and large hats
of matching straw were chosen by
bridesmaids Jean Douglas (sister) and
Fay Nicholson, of Beaudesert.
St. James’s, Toowoomba, saw the wed-
ing of Sybil, elder daughter of the Bob
Hogarths, of Dalby, and Gordon, son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. Watson, Oak-
park, Yarranlea. The bride, who is a
member of one of the Downs’ best-known
station families, wore a trained gown of
magnolia satin draped in priceless old
lace, an heirloom. Her pearl-and-opal
necklace was a gift from her grand-
mother, Mrs. Cardew, of Ipswich, who
looked very handsome in her orchid lace
gown. Mary Hogarth, Margaret Lomax
and Sheila Watson, all frocked alike in
blue, 'maided,
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Moore lent
Bulimba House for a fete in aid of the
G.F.S., and Archbishop and Mrs. Wand
went along, but neither of them could
be persuaded to tackle the donkey, which,
looking suspiciously placid, awaited
would-be Tom Skuthorpes. There were
sports and music and an afternoon-tea
of Tudor proportions.
The standing committee of the
Women’s College held its last social
gathering of the year in the college
grounds, and very welcome was the
shade of the huge mango-trees under
which the tea-tables were spread. Mrs.
J. D. Story (in black) and Ivy Philp (in
navy and white) welcomed the visitors.
There was music, and Peggy Chauncey’s
pupils danced on the lawn. To date, the
standing committee has collected £333 as
nucleus for a scholarship endowment
fund.
Mr and Mrs. Leonard Francis are
back from their jaunt to England, and
they brought back, among other things,
an Austin Ten in which they toured
Britain. Both being steeped in music
they naturally took in an eisteddfod at
Carnarvon and the command concert
on May 24; likewise an open-air per-
formance of “Trovatore” in Paris. The
Musical Association welcomed them
home with a bridge party, and the Cam-
brian Choir, Ipswich, is planning some-
thing special as a greeting.
George, only son of Dr. A. C. F. Hal-
ford and the late Mrs. Halford, is en-
gaged to Hilda, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. E. A. Carfrae, of Charleville.
She is matron of the Alexandra Hos-
pital—Miss _ Fitzgerald, George’s
aunt, started the hospital many
years ago and was its first matron.
Mrs. W. Forgan Smith gave a tea-party
at Rowe's wearing a cool-looking suit
of cream linen and a broad-brimmed hat
with a touch of brown in the trimming.
The table, horseshoe-shaped, was decked
with pink Radiance roses and carnations.
The Lady Mayoress was there, and the
wives of all the Cabinet Ministers. Cards
and competitions helped the time to fly.
Gordon Connan, who led the Queens-
land Scout contingent under Commis-
sioner Snow at the World Jamboree in
Hungary, was married recently to Pamela,
daughter of D. P. Dart, of Sandgate. The
couple will Jive in Melbourne.
A slim, fair girl, looking rather shy
and carrying a great sheaf of red lilies,
stood on the deck of the Hobson’s Bay
when it berthed in Brisbane. She was
Mrs. D. C. Bennett, wife of Flying-
Oflicer Bennett, and before marriage she
was Ly Gubler, a Swiss. While she was
studying the intricacies of our language
the two met in England. They married
in Winchester, honeymooned in Switzer-
land, and now have come back to
Queensland to meet Mr. and Mrs. G. T.
Bennett, who were on the wharf to wel-
come son and new daughter.
Rosa Gargiulo, fresh from Sydney,
where she has been studying with
Madame Christian, gave her first Bris-
bane recital in the City Hall, and drew a
big audience. Rows of white-clad con-
vent girls sat downstairs and were loud
in their applause. Lace and primrose
satin were the singer's drapings.
Marjorie Wilson, our Governor's
chick, went off to the Cup.
Eric Feldt, who has been here on
sick leave from New Guinea, has re-
ceived word of his transfer from Madang
to Wau. He and his wife, who was
Nancy Echlin, went back on the
Macdhui.
It has been a week of tea-parties.
Mrs. W. F. Wilson gave one in honor of
Sir Hugh and Lady Poyntcr, and other
hostesses were Mrs. W. Grave, Mrs.
Frank McLean and Mrs. A. F. Madsen.
Mrs. J. L. vShaltock rattled the teacups
in honor of Mrs. A. Palmer Henzell, who
has been rusticating in Roma for six
months.


Dancing Made Easy
* This New Way!
Learn AT HOME
In One Evening!
\\7ITHOUT music or partner;
’ * without drudgery, difficulty.!
or the expense and inconvenience
of attending classes, YOU can be-1
come a finished dancer almost
overnight. You need not be a
“wall-flower” or “outsider” any
longer; for I positively GUARAN-
TEE to teach you.
EASY AS A.B.C.
Even if you’ve never danced a step in your
life before, you will have' no difficulty in learn-
ing by this method. All the latest Dances,
including Slow Foxtrot, Quick-step, Waltz,
Tango, Rumba, etc., and also Old-time steps,
can be learned in an amazingly short time;
and soon you will be one of the best dancers
in your district. Success is ASSURED, for
the “Dumont” System NEVER FAILS.
Send for FREE Book
I,
■
i
Be
Popular!
—“Dancing Made Easy”
k
To further popularise my
amazing Home-study Sys-
tem, I have decided to
offer a complimentary
copy of this big, Instruc-
tive Book, “Dancing Made
E|asy,’ r absolutely FREE,
to all readers of this
paper. Here is your
chance to “get out of the
rut,” and be a good
dancer; so send the Coupon
NOW, before this FREE
Offer is withdrawn.
PROF. DUMONT, STUDIO B.
192 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDN^T.
F
R
E
E
COME OUT OF YOUR SHELL! Be Popu-
lar, Sought-after, and Admired by the
Opposite Sex! Dancing is the Short Cut to
Good Times and Social Success; and non-
dancers, or bad dancers, miss half the fun
in life. Don’t delay. Send for this amazing
Book NOW—while it’s FREE! This FREE
offer holds good for ONE MONTH ONLY,
so ACT AT ONCE!
Post the Coupon NOW I
Prof. DUMONT, F.S.A., Studio B,
192 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
Please forward me your big Instruc-
tive Book, “Dancing Made Easy,”
ABSOLUTELY FREE, by return mall.
I enclose 2d. stamp towards postage,
etc.
NAME
(Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS
STATE
f •
ķ
Cuban made
Havana Cigars
If you have a fine taste in Havana
Cigars, bear in mind that at David Jones'
you'll find the best range in Australia
of Cuban made Havanas. You'll prob-
ably find your favourite in the small
selected list at left. Obtain your cigars
from David Jones'.
ALL CIGARS SENT POST FREE BY
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Out of the Past:—
THE LUMBER YARD
BY
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE rear of The Bulletin office
probably adjoins the south-western
corner of the block of land on
which, a hundred years ago, stood the
Lumber Yard. It was a large walled
enclosure, situated on the south side of
Bridge-street, its front extending almost
all the way from Pitt-street to George-
street, and within its surrounding walls
many and diverse industries and trades
were carried on by prisoners of the
Crown. It was the labor depot for con-
vict artisans, and in it was gathered
together as curious a collection of crimi-
nal humanity as existed in the Southern
Hemisphere.
There was a blacksmith’s shop, where
all sorts of ironwork in use by the con-
vict gangs laboring on the roads or em-
ployed in the erection of public build-
ings were forged and hammered into
shape. A carpenters’ establishment made
everything required that could be carved,
hewn or constructed out of wood. A
wheelwrights’ supplied all Government
bullock-drays, and sometimes the car-
riages of “the Quality,” with their essen-
tial means of progression. Boatbuilders
made small craft that could be dragged
on rollers when finished to the arm of
.Sydney Cove which extended in those
days almost to the present intersection
of Pitt and Bridge streets. Tinsmiths,
locksmiths, shingle-splitters, toolmakers,
basket-weavers, bootmakers, sailmakers,
coopers, painters, nailmakers all had
their allotted sheds of greater or smaller
size, and worked at their trades with
the famous “Government stroke” —a
leisurely and perfunctory form of labor
which, nevertheless, might not be over-
done with impunity. In a corner of the
yard stood a set of triangles, and an
official scourger was always available
for the discouragement in individuals of
a too-persistent policy of “going slow.”
All round the big quadrangles were
wooden, open-sided sheds, with shingle
roofs, where work was carried on
amidst an incessant clamor of hammer-
ings and clangings and the subdued blas-
phemies, profanities and ribaldries of
the toilers. Overseers slouched about
the sheds and workshops perfunctorily,
intent upon keeping up at least an
appearance of industry in this hetero-
geneous community, where Jack was
always as good as his master when
the latter’s back happened to be
turned. But slackness was not allowed
to be too apparent, for no day passed
when the swish of the lash and the cries
and curses of its victims were not, at
one time or another, painfully audible
to passers-by.
MR. ANDREW MAYNARD, the
.Superintendent, ruled the Lumber
Yard with a rod of iron that became a
feather-duster when dealing with the de-
linquencies of his favorites. An “old
lag” himself, he was familiar with all
the wiles of lagdom, and woe betide the
luckless newcomer who managed to
offend his sense of the fitness of things.
A bullet-headed, stocky man in the
prime of life, he had something of a
reputation as a boxer in the sporting
community, and was not averse from
exercising his skill in summary justice
upon loafers and laggards whom he
considered to be “safe marks.”
“Will ye have two dozen at the
triangles or two minutes wi’ me?” he
would sometimes genially inquire of a
prisoner who had too great an aptitude
for “taking it easy,” and some of them
who had not yet experienced the lash
were rashly ready to do duty as a
punching-ball for their burly taskmaster.
“Two minutes” was merely a polite fic-
tion —it was seldom that he let them off
in under a quarter of an hour. Not
many men made a second choice of
Andy Maynard’s fists.
The fighting men —those who could
use their hands at least as well as the
Superintendent —knew that it did not
pay to make any sort of a showing with
“the Cove.” That cat would not jump.
If you stood up to him, you should be
well aware that the only thing to do
was to accept a hiding, and take it with
a grin. Those rare and valiant souls
who were willing to do so more than
once became his “pets, and found life
in the Lumber Yard comparatively easy,
being generally appointed constables as
a reward for what Mr. Maynard called
“their manliness.”
Richard Armsworth, “No. 3022,
Admiral Hood” (the transport that had
brought him out), “Middlesex Sessions,
larceny, seven years,” as he figured in
the muster-roll, was a sawyer in the
carpenters’ gang, and one of mean
ability, who found small favor in the
eyes of Mr. Maynard. He was not
robust in appearance, though a native
grace and suppleness betokened latent
physical powers which his aspect did not
suggest. He was a shipping clerk, and
a training in ledger-keeping provided no
qualifications for the handling of a heavy
crosscut saw. He had been sentenced
for stealing a billiard cue from a public-
house —he said at his trial that he had
taken it home only to straighten it in
front of the fire—and such mild rascality
as this gave him no standing whatever
among the murderers, forgers, garrot-
ters, embezzlers, highwaymen and other
exponents of the more exalted branches
of criminality with whom he was herded.
A poor outsider he was, compared with
Bill the Barber, who had laudably slain
his mistress, or with Jimmy the Nut, who
had drowned an ancient watchman in
a Houndsditch gutter during a rainstorm.
These had clone things, and accordingly
received more deference in the Yard than
this poor “silvcrtail” who had been con-
victed of being a fool.
DISPLAYING his zeal on the occasion
of a visit of.the Principal Superinten-
dent of Convicts, and having had the
necessity for strictness of discipline
pointed out to him by Captain Rossi, Mr.
Maynard halted by the sawpits and drew
the great man’s attention to the clumsy
inefficiency of prisoner Armsworth,
exemplifying the hopelessness of expect-
ing results from such poor material as
the young man. As that unfortunate’s
bad luck had it, he had just contrived to
twist the saw, and was undergoing some
merited rebuke on the part of his mate,
a burly rascal with an unpleasant face
fittingly matching his tongue.
“Well then, Ben,” inquired Mr. May-
nard, attracted by the torrent of abuse
which the top-sawyer was lavishing upon
his sawdust-covered inferior, “what’s the
young master been up to now?”
“Savin’ y’r honor’s presence, ’tis th’
second saw he’s twisted within th’
week, an’ he’s no good. Any old
woman from Parramatta Factory would
do better’n this fellie. He’s naught but
a girl in stren’th. Fair ’eart-breakin’ it
is, sir, to be set to work wi’ sich a
fool! ”
“Oho I ” punted Mr-Maynard. “Conte
you up out o that savplt me youn
cockerel, till we take a look at ye.
|le £
eyes. ■ ■ V ,hif fellie
oJh« mate.^We U JtaU
wish he was busted himself before I've
the order .belong
roared
Ma^ a U Vo n “ye who tis? Why
> sa | ute ? n| , am mann ers,
ve warrnint. afore Tve done wi’ ye. Two
j three. Here you Hegarty,
’ Thompson"-he called over
hj sh n U |d er t 0 a couple of convict coo-
h lounge d in his wake as a
• ’ or uard of honor , 0 Cap-
® Ihi p; ver to t h’
| am ‘ . • .■ Unless” he
in P ,he as
jP regarded the yoU ng man malevolently
unless ye’d like a couple o’ minutes
• ~ y . d 9 g ut |
a " stai . . P, , ’ k * ‘ (hat Take
-»«*£££ SP A “d Z fiogger
'7 /’ J „
Station had hardly
• J . , , , m-iinlv
‘"hb^'SS
in * eru 1 f K. enmpthimt of -ision-
ofliucr. a, , , youth accent
ft-MtSSh
y t ... » ’ . t
J™ J ll J „ J be flogged.
”
buld, wmdd yc?“ roared Ihe
bully Iruculently'. “Very good then-
|lave j t JTI make ye wish twas
five hundrcd ye was getting instead of
a round with me . j’n | arn ye, ye young
svva fii”
Captain Rossi looked on with a smile,
His cxpcr j ence Q f convicts did not incline
hjm tQ what hc regar ded as maudlin sym-
thy wjth and he fi ad no objec-
tion to seejng this presumptuous young
vii | ain get a beating at the hands of the
yard Superintendent,
■T'HE brawny Andy Maynard, grinning
I savagely, took off his coat and waist-
coat and handed them to the obsequious
Constable Thompson. The latter’s mate
eagerly took charge of the Superinten-
dent’s top-hat. The prisoners working in
the open-sided shed cheerfully relin-
quished their labor and crowded beneath
the projecting eaves of the shingle roof,
most of them grinning cheerful antici-
pation of their unpopular comrade’s im-
pending humiliation.
The youth and the burly official faced
one another in a ring formed by prisoners
who hurried across from the neighbor-
ing sheds to witness the affray—such in-
termissions in the day’s labor being
acquiesced in by their ruler, on the


m
''i
.JTW
w 23
H*9s&
5 M>f»| I
fe*ij
'rr^rkfr^fi
■,l/
iiP
-V'
mw 1 ''
' ?
Admiral Fremantle
The Settlement on the Swan River
On 2nd May, 1829, Captain Fremantle (later Admiral Fremantle) of
H.M.S. "Challenger" landed at the mouth of the Swan River and, in
the name of His Brittanic Majesty, took formal possession of the west
coast of New Holland.
Captain Stirling, the first Governor of Western Australia, arrived on
18th June, 1829, and decided to establish two towns—Fremantle at the
mouth of the Swan to serve as a seaport, and Perth a few miles up
the river as the seat, of government.
The sketch above is an impression of the ceremony of naming the now
capital, the site being marked by Mrs. Dance, wife of Captain Dance.
The Western Australian Bank was established twelve years later at
Perth and, in 1927, this Bank, the largest in Western Australia, was
amalgamated with the Bank of New South Wales, the oldest and
largest bank in Australasia.
The Bank of New South Wales now has over 730 branches throughout
Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australasia
Dank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 18,
j60A.193S
Have you ever really
tried
tu&mdviwf futtte .
TF you really want whiter, more attrae-
tive teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth.
It catches bits of food. Harbors stains.
Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. Film is laden with
germs that are often the forerunner of
tooth decay. Thus film must be removed.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satis-
factorily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders
may be ineffective in removing film. There
is now a tooth paste you can depend on
regularly—a tooth paste thousands of den-
tists use in their own homes and millions of
people have used successfully. This tooth
paste is Pepsodent—the special film-removing
tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
Pepsodent is different in formula, hence
different in the way it works. It contains
no grit, pumice, or soap. The basis of this
definitely modern tooth paste is a new
and revolutionary cleansing and polishing
material which is far softer than the
polishing material used in other leading
tooth pastes or tooth powders. Yet it removes
film and polishes teeth to new gleaming
lustre as more abrasive kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain”
tooth pastes or questionable ways? Remember
that this unique film-removing agent is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively. Thus
no other tooth paste can assure you of
true Pepsodent results. Use Pepsodent twice
a day—sec your dentist at least twice a year.
N 7352
I
m
■ .
MB
&
ground that these displays of his per-
sonal prowess were good for discipline.
“Ye dirty guttersnipe!” growled Mr.
Maynard amiably. “I’ll make ye such
a guy as y’r mother wouldn’t know ye!”
And then took place a miracle that
was not forgotten in the Lumber Yard
until that evil industrial centre ceased
to function.
Relying a little rashly upon his weight
and strength, rather than upon the un-
doubted science at his command, the
Superintendent made. something of a
lush upon his younger and slighter oppo-
nent, who sidestepped in a fashion that
immediately made it evident that he was
no neophyte in the pugilistic arena. As
Mr. Maynard charged, Armsworth
stepped aside and dealt him a stinging
blow on the ear that almost upset the
Superintendent’s balance. Swinging
round in savage astonishment and re-
sentment, he received another drive in
the nose that brought immediate blood
and a yell of delight from the convict
spectators. Thereupon one of the con-
stables took a hasty step forward as
though to Jay hands on the young man
in restraint of further treasonable assault
upon the head of the Yard. He was im-
mediately checked by a curt injunction
from the Principal Superintendent.
“Stop!” cried Captain Rossi. “Fair-
play, my man! Mr. Maynard can look
after himself. Fairplay!”
But it was speedily apparent that the
enraged Andy Maynard was quite in-
capable of looking after himself in the
present circumstances. Blinded by his
own fury, he forgot all his boxing lore.
The young man, it was agreed among
the broken-nosed and thick-eared cogno-
scenti of the Yard, was a “fly covey”
when it came to using his “docks,” what-
ever kind of crawler he might be with
a crosscut saw. He was a “leary cove,”
right enough—a fighter of such quality
as to make the Super, look a fool indeed.
He danced all round his heavier advei-
sary, hit him whenever and wherever he
liked, punished him perpetually, and gave
no openings. Hardly at all did he receive
punishment himself.
All too soon for the liking of the
Yard did the affair terminate. It was
almost 100 quick to see how it was done,
but suddenly Mr. Maynard crumpled up,
subsided in an untidy heap on the
ground, and was very soundly asleep.
A ROAR of delight went up from the
convicts.
“Sarve th’ —— right!”
“Hooray for Mary Jane!”
The mob of prisoners seethed with
excitement as they closed in about the
recumbent and unconscious Andy Mav-
nard.
“Kick th’ ’s guts out!” came a
hoarse yell, and Captain Rossi clam-
bered on to a bench and waved excitedly
to the sentry at the gate.
“Help!” he cried, “Murder! Mutiny!
Fix your bayonets and charge!” There
was an indescribable uproar. The cor-
poral of the guard formed his men
hastily in the gateway, and a ripple of
steel twinkled in the sunlight. He led
them at the double towards the ex-
cited and eddying crowd beside the car-
penters’ shop, where Captain Rossi and
the constables were striving almost vainly
lor the life of the Superintendent. Fright-
ful imprecations and hoarse yells for
vengeance on the inanimate carcass of
their oppressor came from the surging
crowd of prisoners pressing closer and
closer to where the red-faced Principal
Superintendent and the fearful constables
strove to protect the helpless Andy
Maynard.
At length the soldiers reached the out-
skirts of the milling mob, and as they
did so the report of a pistol-shot rang
out above the din. Captain Rossi had
shot dead, only just in time, a fellow
with an adze raised aloft above the Super-
intendent’s huddled figure.
Short and bloody work the soldiers
made of it, though there were only four
of them opposed to a raging multitude
composed of nearly all the prisoners in
the establishment. The corporal bay-
oneted a man fatally, and the other sol-
diers wounded more with savage thrusts.
The flashing, three-cornered six-inches
of steel did deadly, terrifying work, and
the howling rabble fell back in dismay.
The corporal shouted an order to his
men, got them into line with levelled
muskets, and faced the crowd, already
beginning to break. He shouted again—
it was almost a scream.
“Fire !”
Outside the walls, alarmed passers-by
heard the crash of the volley. The
prisoners broke, and ran for the sheds,
leaving three of their number writhing
in the dust of the enclosure.
THE young prisoner who had been the
* cause of all the uproar displayed a
presence of mind that was truly admir-
able. He had seen his chance, and had
taken it promptly, when the disorderly
mob first began to surge about the un-
conscious figure of the Superintendent.
He hurriedly snatched Mr. Maynard’s
coat and waistcoat and black silk stock
from the agitated hands of Constable
Thompson, just as the other guardian of
peace, Hegarty, dropping the beaver top-
hat, had sprung forward to his superior’s
assistance. Armsworth picked that up
also, thrust his way through the swarm-
ing and excited prisoners, brushing the
sawdust from his body.
HASTILY donning his borrowed plumes
in a convenient shed, he sprinted
across the open square to the unguarded
gate, just as the soldiers came running
into the midst of the disturbance. Nobody
outside the walls was particularly sur-
prised when a pale-faced young fellow
came out through the small wicket in one
of the big wooden gates and stepped on
to the sidewalk.
“What’s amiss, young feller?” some-
one asked him. “What’s all the row?”
“Oh, nothing much,” he answered
readily. “One or two of ’em playing up
a bit. I’m one o’ the clerks in the office,
and the Super’s sent me to the Barracks
to get more soldiers. Tisn’t anything
very much—only a bit of a riot. ’Twill
soon be settled.”
“What’s been the cause of it?” another
asked him, and continued without waiting
for a reply, “They treat those poor
fellows shockingly in there. Work ’em
to death, and then flog ’em back to life
again. Why, only the other day”
Just then the crash of the volley sent
a shudder through the listeners.
“Hark to that!” cried Armsworth.
“The soldiers are shooting. It’s more
serious than 1 thought. 1 must hurry
to the Barracks for help. Make way,
please!” he shouted.
“Go on — hurry!” people cried fear-
fully as he ran up the slope into George-
street.
None of them had any eyes for him,
he knew well enough, with the sounds of
warfare in their ears from within the
walls of the Lumber Yard, and when he
came to George-strcel at the top of the
hill, instead of turning to the left for
the Barracks, he walked quietly across
the intersection and began to stroll in
a careless fashion towards the waterside.
Rumors of the trouble in the Yard
had already spread rapidly through little
Sydney, and had not taken long to attain
proportions of exaggeration and direful
calamity. The prisoners had mutinied,
and had massacred their guard. They
had broken out into the streets, and
were fighting a battle with the sol-
diers beside the Tank Stream. Cap-
tain Rossi had been brutally mur-
dered. The mutineers were advancing on
Government House. The Governor had
galloped off to Parramatta. The con-
victs were about to release the prisoners
in the gaol in lower George-street.
Through these calamitous murmurings
the cause of what trouble there was
pushed his cool, unhurried way, deter-
mined on a bid for freedom that would
take him out of the clutches of scornful
top-sawyers and tyrannical superinten-
dents. He meant, if possible, to gel
across the harbor to the North Shore,
raid some settler for provisions, and then
make his escape northward into the wild
country in the vicinity of Broken Bay.
And luck was with Mr. Richard Arms-
worth that sunny morning, a hundred
years ago.
WHEN he came to the ferry at Dawes’
Point he found the boatman just
arrived from the opposite shore. He had
already heard some rumor of the out-
break, in the Lumber Yard and was all
excited curiosity.
“Me brother works in th’ coopers’
shop,” he told Armsworth, after
anxiously questioning him, “and I
be main fond o’ Jemmie. 1 wouldn’t
like for to hear he'd been shot or bay-
oneted be one o’ they leathernecks
—that I wouldn’t! Look here, young
fellie —d’ye think ye could take th’ boat
acrost for me, an’ tell me mate to take
it on for a bit? He lives in th’ little
stone house just above the landing-place.
You was a-goin’ acrost, so it’ll be just
th’ same to you as if I was to come. I
want to find out if me brother's safe.
Will ye do it for me, like a good fellie?
I’m ter’ble anxious-like. Go on, mister
—ye might as well. Then I’ll be able
to run up th' town an’ see what’s hap-
pened.”
Those were the last tidings his legal
custodians ever had of “Richard Arms-
worth, No. 3022, Admiral Hood, Middle-
sex Sessions, larceny, seven years,”
though Mr. Andrew Maynard always
hoped for more.
“The warmint!” he would grumble
whenever he thought of him. “The dam’
deceptive warmint! Who’d ha’ thought
it? Strike me dead —who would ha'
thought it?”


cxxxcl
LAKE LOUISE
in Canada's
Rockies
Only reached via C. P. R.
Glorious mountain scenery.
Alpine lakes . . . mighty glaciers . ..
quiet valleys .. ■ sports. Palatial
hotels with Canadian Pacific service
and cuisine. Moderate rates. Stop-
over at Banff or Lake Louise on
your way to Europe.
Write for details and literature.
Any l ourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,.
317 Cieorge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
lakes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Could qour Widow
balance herßudqet?
estate immediately by taking out
an Insurance policy with this
company ? The saving required is
very small . . the security obtained
gives peace of mind. Mortgage
Insurance guarantees your
dependents’ inheritance of debt-
free property.
pßoßftf’
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L™
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Winfcello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Why have
any doubt
about it . . .
why leave
her future to
chance when
you can
create an
twovJTC « « «
THERE’S nothing like finding out what a man
really wants for a Christmas gift. And a
Gillette is a gift near to the heart of anyone. An
ever-welcome, ever-useful present, giving unlimited
perfect shaves with the new Blue Gillette electrically-
tempered blades. Complete Shaving Outfits from
2/6 to 35/-.
No. 44 Set. Contains one of
the latest bar-type Gillette
Razors, three New Type
Gillette slotted blades in
nickel-plated blade sheath,
the whole contain- o^
ed in a solidly is®
constructed metal
case covered in ASfi
first quality leath- JaHi
erette and lined
plush .. .. 4/6
me
1
■K For the man
who already has a
Gillette Razor, there
is the Blue Gillette
Special Christmas
Box containing 25
electrically tempered
Gillette Blades —10/-
G 2.205
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.’’
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office —Melbourne.
Brisbane, Adelaide, ' Perth and Wellington (A.Z.).
Story of a Strange Household:-
SPIDERS
BY
LILIAN M. BROWN.
IF only he wou'dn't begin reaching out
for the salt and pepper before she
finished putting things on the table!
Miss Munce, unused to waiting on
gentlemen, was always a little nervous at
mealtimes, and she was'afraid that, with
the hands of both of them hovering
among the dishes, his might accidentally
touch hers. His hands were hairy. The
hair began a little below the knuckles and
got thicker towards the wrists. When he
reached for the salt and pepper the wrist
would shoot out from his coat sleeve , . .
Black, bristly hair . . ,
Mrs. Buddock talked a good deal to
Miss Munce about her husband. Mrs.
Buddock was an invalid. When she got
up and walked from one room to an-
other, as she did about twice a week, the
effort made her so ill that she was moan-
ing for the rest of the day. When Miss
Munce first called in reply to an adver-
tisement for a lady-help, Mrs. Buddock
had been in bed ill, but nothing very
explicit had been said, and Miss Munce
never liked asking questions about illness
because there was so much connected
with it that wasn’t quite nice. There
seemed to be no immediate hope of
Mrs. Buddock’s recovery, and in the
afternoons she enjoyed having Miss
Munce sit in her room for company.
Several limes she had said:
“Well, what do you think of my hus-
band?”
Miss Munce would merely murmur in
reply. She could not like Mr. Buddock,
although in her morning and evening
prayers she always asked to be enabled
to feel charitable towards him.
Mr. Buddock was a small man, with
arms and legs too long for his actual
size. He wore a very neat beard of the
goatee kind. And his steaks had to be
underdone. Miss Munce was quite
startled by the way he had complained,
on the day after her arrival, about his
steak being cooked too much. He had
sounded almost ferocious. Previously
Miss Munce had cooked only for ladies.
Mr. Buddock liked his meat so under-
done that it looked quite raw. The blood
would ooze out of the steak or chop as
he cut it, and sometimes Miss Munce
stood behind his chair watching the alert
way in which he handled his knife and
fork.
MISS MUNCE had been with the
Buddocks for nearly a fortnight when
she first saw the spider on the ceiling of
her room. She was, at the moment, say-
ing her evening prayers, and she was
finding it especially difficult to feel
charitable towards Mr. Buddock. Kneel-
ing by the bed, she looked up over her
clasped hands and waited for guidance.
Then she saw the spider. It was a very
large spider, with long, curving legs. .Jet-
black, and looking as though it were
etched on the white ceiling. And it was
right over Miss Munce’s head.
Miss Munce wondered after a time
whether she had fainted. All her normal,
well-ordered existence seemed to have
faded away, and she did not know how
long she had been kneeling there.
Trickles of perspiration were winding
down her back. Hitherto murder had
been quite outside the range of her
thoughts, but she was feeling murderous
now. Terrified, but ready to kill.
Vaguely she knew that it was very
wrong to feel like that in a praying
posture. She had been on her knees for
so long, however, that she did not seem
able to remember how to get up.
The spider, which had been sitting
motionless looking down at her, began to
move suddenly and rapidly. Miss Munce,
without knowing how she got there, was
at the door, clutching its handle, by the
time the spider reached the edge of a
picture-frame and disappeared behind it.
She was now crying. The fierce hate she
had felt while on her knees was changed
into a desire to be helped and protected.
It was horrible when she realised that
she could not ask for help on this
occasion. For a moment she toyed with
the idea of begging Mrs. Buddock to
send Mr. Buddock in to kill the spider,
while she herself remained out of the
room. But she felt that she could not
come back into the room after Mr.
Buddock had been there. The contents
of her mind were very jumbled, and Jt
seemed a long time since she had been
praying calmly for charity. The only
alleviating circumstance was that she
knew which picture-frame the spider was
behind.
Whimpering, Miss Munce pulled and
jerked at her bed till it was on the
opposite side of the room, and got into
it, very cold and tired. For some time
she could not have slept if she had tried.
After that she kept herself awake by
turning her head constantly and counting
up to live hundred. In,the morning she
was quite exhausted.
STEAK and eggs had been ordered for
Mr. Buddock’s breakfast. Standing
heavy-eyed over the stove, Miss Munce
tried to close her nostrils against the
luscious smell of the steak as it began to
grill. She felt an almost passionate desire
to leave it on the griller till it was
properly cooked, but duty impelled her
to remove it. When she placed his break-
fast before Mr. Buddock he reached out
briskly for the salt and pepper, his eyes
appreciatively on a trickle of blood which
was oozing from the underside of the
steak.
“Done just to a turn this morning,”
he said, and smiled at Miss Munce.
She felt that she would never be able
to pray again.
In the afternoon, when Miss Munce
had brought her knitting and settled
down beside her employer’s bed, Mrs.
Buddock asked, as she had on several
previous occasions:
“Well, what do you think of my hus-
band?”
This time Miss Munce did not even
murmur vaguely in reply.
“You’ve dropped a stitch, haven’t
you?” added Mrs. Buddock.
Miss Munce, a very neat knitter,
dropped two more stitches and split her
wool trying to recover them. She knew
that Mrs. Buddock was smiling—lazily,
as befitted an invalid —and she suddenly
felt convinced that Mrs. Buddock had
taken to her bed not through illness, but
because she could not bear to sit and
watch her husband cutting underdone
steak.
“We used to sleep together, you know,”
said Mrs. Buddock. “But he moves
about so . . . Now that he has the small
bed to himself he never finishes the night
where he began it. It makes me think of
the man in the Bible who took up his
bed and walked!” Mrs. Buddock
laughed—a thin, invalid’s laugh. “Some-
times he actually drags it outside and
sleeps in the passage. So you needn't
be nervous if you hear him wandering
around at night.”
That evening Miss Munce omitted her
prayers. Before undressing she climbed,
by means of a chair and hassock, on to
the chest of drawers. With a shoe in one
hand she stretched up and tilted the
picture-frame behind which the spider
had disappeared. It was not there. From
the chest of drawers she could reach only
two other pictures, and the spider was
behind neither of them. Miss Munce
told herself that she was relieved.
“It has probaby gone back to the
garden,” she thought. “They move about
so”
Suddenly Miss Munce felt such a wave
of sickness that she had to sit down be-
fore beginning to undress. For the first
time doubts of her own sanity came to
her. Strange thoughts, disgusting
thoughts, seemed to be jumbling them-
selves together in her mind. She prepared
slowly for bed. As she was reaching for
her night attire she cast a quick, fearful
glance at the ceiling, and the spider was
there, watching her
The next afternoon Miss Munce re-
belled against taking her sewing into
Mrs. Buddock’s room. It was Saturday,
and Mr. Buddock was at home. Miss
Munce had said her morning prayers, but
had not obtained much benefit from
them, and she was feeling weary from
lack of sleep. At the back of the house
was a balcony, seldom used except for


"<**%
mm
\l\
.
fe,
It ! 'A
J/W J
/ ,
/l I \
Hur cai* to °
YOU’VE heard how “Dulux”
the finish that has super-
seded enamels — is working
miracles in home renovation. It’s
just as miraculous for cars. Be-
cause it is so easy to apply, be-
cause it dries so quickly; because
it gives a gleaming lustre that no
other finish can approach; and
because it will not crack, chip or
peel, it is the finest finish you can
possibly give your car. Ask your
refinisher about it.
The
MIRACLE
FINISH.
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
<»0E&
JBH ■'! Product of British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty., Ltd..
▼ makers of famous “Duco” Lacquers and No. 7 Specialities for
the Motorist.
*
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD,
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
m
*
m
p
1
m
//ill ii!
mil
\v>
drying clothes in wet weather. Miss
Munce decided to spend the afternoon
there, knitting and trying to think clearly.
THE balcony adjoined a spare bed-
room. As Miss. Munce opened the
door she saw that the room was already
occupied. Mr. Buddock lay on the floor,
his arms stretched at right angles to his
body and his gaze on the ceiling. He
did not see Miss Munce, who remained
stationary in the doorway.
Mr. Buddock, having completed the
deep-breathing and mental concentration
phase of his physical culture session,
raised both legs and simultaneously
curved his arms into the air, groping for
his toes with the fingers of either hand.
Miss Munce uttered a plaintive sound
and, suddenly released to action, dropped
her knitting. The needles rattled on the
floor.
For a moment they looked at each
other—Mr. Buddock justifiably startled ;
Miss Munce with staring eyes and open
mouth, as though confronted with a
horrible and inescapable doom. It was
only the realisation that Mr. Buddock
was about to speak that enabled her to
leave the room.
Mrs. Buddock called to her as she
crept downstairs.
“1 thought you were going to neglect
me this afternoon," she said brightly.
She was lying comfortably back on her
pillows, and to Miss Mmice's disordered
mind she seemed to have something of
omniscience—safely fortified, herself, by
illness, and able to watch the writhings of
less fortunate people with detached calm.
Had Mrs. Buddock chosen that moment
to ask: “Well, what do you think of
my husband?” Miss Munce might
possibly have been moved to violent and
subsequently regretted action. Mrs.
Buddock, however, merely lay and looked
at her with kindly interest.
“The doctor is coming again next
week,” Mrs. Buddock remarked sud-
denly. “1 shall have to give up my little
walks to the sitting-room. I'm afraid.
Complete rest seems to be the only
thing ... And yet, you know, it makes me
feel so helpless, lying here all the time
and having no idea of what is happening
about the house . . . You're such a com-
fort to me. Miss Munce. You'd tell me
at once if anything went wrong, wouldn’t
you?”
“Why, what could go wrong?” said
Miss Munce. vaguely surprised to hear
herself tittering. She was surprised, also,
to remember that at one time she had
felt an impulse to tell Mrs. Buddock
about the spider in her room.
“What could, indeed?” returned Mrs.
Buddock, smiling as though at her own
foolishness. “We're such a peaceful,
comfortable little household. And you
look after my husband so nicely . . . I’m
sure he doesn’t miss me about the place
at all since you came!”
“Oh, but of course he must,” said Miss
Munce, wagging an admonitory finger
at the invalid.
In the broom cupboard various odds
and ends were stored. Miss Munce,
remembering that she had seen an old
croquet mallet there, fetched it before
retiring to bed. The spider was not in
evidence. Miss Munce placed the mallet
with its handle resting upright against
her pillow, and, fully clothed, knelt down
to pray. Exerting all her will-power, she
completed her devotions with closed eyes.
And she prayed for Mr. and Mrs. Bud-
dock conjointly . . . When she rose from
her knees the spider was still absent.
Humming softly, Miss Munce began to
disrobe. She had never been a courageous
woman, but her sense of outrage now
gave her an almost light-headed readi-
ness to assume the defensive. As she
removed each garment she glanced
casually at the ceiling. When about to
put on her nightdress she happened to
notice the spider, not on the ceiling but
just emerging from behind a picture-
frame. The spider, as though surprised
by Miss Munce’s suspended humming,
paused in its journey and slowly curved
its legs inward . . , Black, hairy legs . . .
Miss Munce’s lips were drawn back
from her teeth in a snarl. She dropped
her nightdress, knowing instinctively
that it was now too late to conceal her-
self in its folds.
UROM the chaos of her thoughts
* flashed out something that she had
read years ago—something about the
sight and smell of blood rousing bestial
impulses in persons of a hitherto con-
ventional and courteous mode of life.
Laughing wildly, Miss Munce realised
that for the past fortnight she had been
seeing and inhaling extremely underdone
steak and that her self-control had
gradually weakened. Her wrath had now
risen to the righteous stage. She seized
the croquet mallet. From the bed, on to
which she had sprung with a litheness
that had not been hers even in girlhood,
she was unable to reach the spider.
She clambered on to the chest of
drawers. Her head almost on a level
with its incurved, hairy legs, and holding
the mallet in readiness, Miss Munce
paused to indulge in sadistic exultings.
In anticipation she could see the reddish
mark on the wallpaper which would be
the outward and visible sign of her
victory. Her nostrils worked spasmodi-
cally. As she swung her arm back, the
spider, uncurving itself with remarkable
celerity, scuttled in one movement behind
the sheltering frame.
Miss Munce became aware that she
was perched precariously among the
sachets and photographs ornamenting
her chest of drawers, and that she was
clothed in one abbreviated garment only.
She felt very tired. And very conscious
of her sin ... A ridiculous idea occurred
to her of making truce with the spider so
that she could get some rest. For a time
she waited to see whether it would
emerge again, and the edges of the
picture-frame quivered before her eyes,
so intensely did she feel compelled to
watch them. The spider remained con-
cealed. and Miss Munce climbed wearily
down and put on her nightdress. Turning
out the light, she lay in bed. trembling,
waiting for guidance . . .
The knowledge that the spider was in
the room, that at any moment it might
drop on her pillow, reaching out greedily,
appreciatively, so that she would feel its
hairy blackness against her skin, no
longer filled Miss Munce with horror.
She told herself that she had done what
she could . . . When the door of her
room opened she gave a little sigh, almost
of relief that the tension was ended at
last.
She had, however, overlooked the
factor of her religious upbringing. As
in the dim light from the passage she
watched a figure cautiously and very
slowly moving towards her bed, the I
answer to Miss Miince’s many prayers
was suddenly crystallised into action.
Chaotic as was her mental state, she yet
saw clearly the only right thing for her
to do. And she did it. The figure had
now reached her bed. Bending, its
breathing becoming audible, it appeared
to grope with both extended hands. Miss
Munce knelt up on her pillows, holding
the mallet firmly, and struck downwards
with triumphant force.
There was no sound at all, after one
muffled gurgle. Miss Munce. surprised
at her own calm, stepped out of bed on
the further side and moved towards (he
door, not even troubling to glance behind
her. In the passage she met Mr. Bud-
dock. He was in pyjamas, and wore an
expression of some anxiety—which
changed, as he observed Miss Muncc’s
demeanor, into one of actual alarm.
“But Fve just killed you,” said Miss
Munce, and sank in an ungraceful but
genuine faint at his feet.
MIS.S MUNCE, a stalwart teetotaller,
willingly and almost eagerly drank
from the glass proffered by the doctor.
“Quite a harmless little kink,” the
doctor was saying. “You should have
been warned, of course, but people
always shy at admitting there’s anything
like that in the family. Buddock can’t
get anyone to stay here, because she
fancies they’re making eyes at him and
gets nasty. He told me only last week,
poor fellow, that it was a load off his j
mind to have someone sensible and staid
like you in the house. But a woman with
that kind of phobia gets suspicious of
anything” The doctor stopped
abruptly, and coughed. “What I can’t
understand,” he added, “is how you had
that mallet so handy. Were you expect-
ing burglars?”
“It was the spider,” said Miss Munce,
faintly. “A horrible spider in my room.
I’ve been afraid to sleep.”
The doctor laughed. “Funny how
women always have this horror of
spiders! Come along and I’ll destroy
the brute for you, and then you can get
to bed in peace. I’ve sent for a nurse
for Mrs. Buddock, you know. She’ll
have a nice headache after the way you
attacked her—not that she didn’t deserve
it!”
Together they entered Miss Munce’s
bedroom. The spider was on the wall,
motionless, near its favorite picture-
frame. As the doctor picked up the
mallet Miss Munce instinctively flung
out her hands to stop him, then, biting
her lips, turned away.
“There! Now you’ve nothing more tq
worry about,” said the doctor cheerfully.
Miss Munce looked at a reddish mark
on the wallpaper. She felt tired. And
very old.


"THE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by dav covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “Th e Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstall’s, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE ACE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Cbe mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particular's jrom
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office; Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
65% 0f...
“The News”
(Adelaide’s Evening Daily)
Circulation
Consists of
Cash Transactions
“ r PHE NEWS” doesn’t just
come . it’s sought
and bought, and grips
afresh every evening. Ade-
laide depends on “The
News” for its news. That’s
the paper to carry YOUR
sales story.
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House. Collins
SYDNEY —t*. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
HiU. E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney ; R. «L McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
$
v
Does It Well!!
oldest daily news-
Family Paper .of
“The Examiner,” established 1842, is the
paper in Tasmania, and it still is the
Northern Tasmania.
It circulates everywhere in the North—the home of two-thir s
of the population of Tasmania —and it does it well.
Advertising in “The Examiner’ is well done.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., ltd!. 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
You can’t
ignore
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“If y’ ask me anything,” he said slowly and
aggressively, “it was a mistake lettin’ Jim White take
charge of the Warnin’ ’III kitchen. ’E may be runnin’
it orright—l’m not sayin’ that—an’ the food may be
orright—l’m not sayin’ that" He looked round to
see if anyone wanted to say he was. “But where’s
’is tally, that’s wot I wants t’ know —where’s ’is tally?”
No one responded.
“So many cabbidges,” Joe went on aggrievedly,
“so many loaves, that sorta thing, so many travellers.
Total ’em up, right. Good luck.” Joe nodded, to
express the satisfaction he wished he was feeling.
“But where’s ’is tally? That’s wot I wanter know.”
Denny had not been listening. “We’ll discuss
the plans for to-night,” he said impatiently, “an’ then
we’ll let the others know the decisions when they turn
up. Now, then, you ’ave the letter from the Shire
Council, Joe. Will you read it out?”
They had all heard the letter before, but they
waited while Joe fished through his trouser pockets
rumbling complaints about never knowing where he
put the thing. He finally produced a folded, rather
soiled envelope, and extracted the council’s communi-
cation. The grey silence folded round them again
as he finished it.
“Well, any suggestions?” Denny looked along
the benches. “Come on, wake up. Any suggestions?”
Joe Willis brought down his fist on the folded
paper. “They’re only offerin’ t’ let us go back, no
victimisating, just where we were an’ nothin’ said.
But”—he breathed heavily through his nose —“ ’ow
about the principle of the thing?” He looked round
challengingly. “That’s wot I say—-it’s the principle
of the thing.”
Denny nodded. “You’re right, Joe. Now if”
Joe rolled on, crushing the interruption much as
a steam-roller might crush a pebble. He was the only
person in Tiburon who could outtalk the Magsman ;
but, while Denny did most of his talking in rapid
sentences, Joe rolled tractorwise over everyone else’s
opinion with slow, heavy pauses that, on the one
hand, bored and irritated his listeners, yet held them
restlessly attentive.
“It’s the principle,” (Silence.) “Perhaps if these
chaps at Mudger’s Flat ’adn’t come out too” (silence)
“we could’ve gone back sweet as an of cheese.”
(Silence.) “But they wouldn’t ’ave offered to let us
go back” (silence) “if the chaps from Mudger’s
Flat ’adn’t come out with us ; an’ the chaps from
Mogong, they’re willin’ to come too.”
“It’s a splittin’ move,” Denny put in quickly.
“They’re afraid it’ll spread all over the place in a
couple more weeks, what with Mudger’s Flat an’
Mogong swung our way. They’re gettin’ frightened
an’ ”
“I was sayin’ ” —Joe looked truculent —“I was
sayin’ that that’s so. An’ the council says nothin’
about not ’avin’ to work f’r them blackleg wages.”
(Silence.) “The council ’eard that there deputation.
Council ’card wot it ’ad t’ say. Bill there”—he
pointed to a little, wrinkled man with false teeth and
a perpetual grin—“ Bill there says at the deputation,
’e says, ‘We want it one way or another, once an’
f r all,’ ’e says ; ‘that’s wot we want. ’Ave we got t’
slave our guts out for’ ”
“I didn’t say it that way, Joe. I said, ‘ 'Ave we
got to slave our 'carts out’ ”
“ ‘ ’Ave we got to slave our guts out for tuppence
’a’penny a week or can we turn down a low-paid
job without gettin’ put off the relief?’ An’ very
pleased I was to ’ear ’im say it too. I would’ve said
it meself if Bill ’adn’t nipped in quick like. Not that”
(silence) “I could’ve said it any better.” (Silence.)
“But I would’ve liked to ’ave said it.”
“Thanks, Joe.”
“No thanks. Bill. No thanks. I always says
wot I mean. I would’ve been damn’ proud to ’ave said
it as you said it, standin’ up to them as they ought
to be” —the tractor rumbled on—“stood up to.
We want to see the thing settled for once an’ f’r all.”
“Right.” Denny nipped in under the tractor
wheels. “All those in favor of Joe’s motion for
extendin’ the strike until we get a rulin’ on the matter
of workin’ at less than relief wages?”
The executive carried the motion.
“Right. Who’ll put it at the general meetin’
to-night?”
“You,” one of the executive put in quickly before
Bill Keyne could propose Joe Willis. Once the tractor
got on the move there was no stopping him, and he
would take all night to say nothing. “I propose
that the chairman puts it to them.”
“Those in favor? Right. Y’ve got the council’s
permit for the street meetin’, Joe?”
Joe again fished laboriously in his pockets, and
produced a paper which he smoothed out on the
table. “This was f’r last week’s. But I saw of Peter,
the Shire Clerk, an’ ’c said ’c supposed it wouldn’t
matter as long as there wasn’ any trouble. That’s
good enough, ain’t it?”
“It’s too late to do anything, I s’posc it'll be
all right. Anyway, if there’s any trouble you’ve all
got your places.”
There were a clatter of sulky wheels and a crunch-
ing of heavy boots on the pavement outside, and
Jim came in, followed by Blue. He muttered an
apology, and took his place, at the foot of the table
after passing some papers to Joe Willis. “Them
accounts,” he explained. Joe nodded deliberately.
The discussion was abandoned for the moment.
“ ’Ow’s things Warning Hill way?” Bill Keyne
asked.
Jim nodded silently to indicate that they were
still much as the questioner could expect them to
be, and shook his hat to dislodge a shower of drops.
“What’s the plans f’r to-night?” Blue asked.
“Everybody down at the railway corner at ten
t’ eight, an’ then we’ll catch the crowd as they’re goin’
on to the pictures.”
“An’ are we goin’ back?”
“It’s the principle of the thing,” the tractor began.
“Wot I say is, while we’re ’avin’ a strike, let’s make
a clean job of it.”
“The reinstatement ain’t the only issue,” a tow-
headed, loud-voiced youngster called Phillips put in.
“What’re they going to do about the single men that
were put off the dole before the strike started? What
are they going to do about the likes of us?
“’Ow about the travellers?" Blue added. What
are thev goin’ to do about localisin’ the chaps on
the track that want to be localised? An are y g° in
to stop them ordering y’ on somewhere else it
don’t like the color of y’r shirt?”
' “ Ow about the extry day’s work we’re askin’
for? No one ain’t said nothin’ about that yet.
The executive was almost unanimous. A few
of the more timid kept silent, but they dared not
openly disagree. They merely stared out at the rain.
“Now,” said Denny, “the order of speakers.
Andy Forbes’ll start off, an’ I’ll follow with the
motion ; then Joe ’ere’ll put the finishin’ touches to
things.” He eyed Joe apprehensively. Denny knew
what it was to have Joe turn stubborn and want to
speak first.
“Well, friends” —the Magsman realised from the
look of Joe that he was going to be argumentative—
“I don’t like t’ set up my opinion ’gainst that of men
with more ’sperience than meself, as you tell me you ve
’ad, but when I was in the cane-cutters’ strike away
back in nineteen-nineteen it was the secert’ry wot
started things goin’, an’, bein’ secert’ry, it seems to
me that it ain’t right things shouldn’t be done due
an’ proper, if y’ see wot l mean. Now, I ain’t got
no objection to Andy Forbes ere sayin’ a lew words
while they're gatherin’ round an’ gettin’ ready to
listen. But then”—Joe paused impressively—“after
Andy it seems like it’d be more natural for a local-
say meself, f’rinstance —to get up an’ put it to them
rather than a traveller.”
“1 don’t mind,” the Magsman said, keeping his
temper in check. “Right. Andy Forbes opens, Joe
speaks next an’ I bring the meetin’ to a close. Is
that settled?”
■ “Now, ’old on,” Joe growled slowly ; “don’t go
so almighty fast. ’Oo says it’s settled? If you ain’t
satisfied, jus’ say so, instead of sayin’ ‘It’s settled,’
like that. Have any of the rest of us said it’s settled?
No. Well, why are y’ goin’ sayin’ it’s settled like
that? Someone else may ’ave something else to say
about it.”
The Magsman groaned softly. His very blood
beat the faster for impatience. They had so many
important things to decide, so much to arrange, and
here was this creaking, lumbering Joe Willis crushing
over the plans of the business with his heavy, monot-
onous voice. What did it matter who spoke and
when, as long as they spoke?
Finally, after turning the matter over laboriously,
it was decided that Joe should speak first, Denny
second and Andy Forbes last. It would have been
far better for Denny the Magsman, as events proved,
if he had not spoken at all.
By dusk the meeting had just about settled what
it intended to do that night, and the women were
hurrying them out and complaining that they wanted
to set the tables: Blue went up to Denny, who was
standing looking gloomily out at the rain.
“Okker,” he said, “is out at the soup-kitchen.
H says ’e can’t stand old Martin’s hut any longer.
’E says ’e’s goin’ to go on, but ’e’s goin’ to attend
the meeting to-night if it’s the last thing ’e ever does.”
“Tell him it will be,” Denny responded gloomily.
“ ’E’s lookin’ for trouble. Tell him not to come.”
(To be continued next week.)


WmiSm
Wmm-
mm
iWW
mmm
mmm
m
»
m
mm.
mm.
mm
mm
Wmmm.
mm
WmmmMM.
mm,
w/////.
m
.
mm
mm.
mm
mm
I I
Wm.
Wmm,
m
HH
mm
Vi.';
■
1
Wmmmmm.
mMmm.
WA
n
f ->
H
•.
iiifc
*
wmmmmm.
mmMmm
mmmMmmmmWmmm
Ml
u
/■;■. .■'■ - •',•'• ' ■•'. ,J? / ' '
\ Mi
m
■
: '&£(*}%
■
w&
■
■
j^rGxllunr
I /(f&s&n
[Scots CdhideJ
IS
&
niii
Wmmti
WmWMm
mm
m.
vma.
mm.
y//M
rmm'M
m
mm
m
: ■
■
*
mm
mm
VM
.
mm
mm
mmm.
mm
m.
H
m
mm.
mm
m
mm.
e Jra/DC js
(T^GUliinr
(D
rj
U
33-2.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON. Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
sU
TO “THE BULLETIN"
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
<b
V v A® v ,
t^v-
..X* v ds:<*
K
&
A>
V’
\o
<•*
#1
y
**
0
o
0°
>’ 6 6 ‘
- *u vX6
L tXr 0 .** .•* t
-At** .*• .•* V>'tfVJt<**


STOMACH DISTRESS
and ACIDITY
VANQUISHED...
This New Way
" Entirely due to self-poisoning,"
says the eminent Berlin physician,
Dr. C; Oppenhelmer
m
AUTOXIMA
... Its Cause and Effects
Civilised life guards against many dangers.
But it exposes us to hidden ones such as
autoxima. Modern food gives insufficient
exercise to the wails of the intestines. These
intestines lose their power of normal move-
ment and- are unable to get rid of the
waste matter which settles in the folds.
Minerals essential to health are not ex-
tracted from your food by the lifeless walls,
and your vitality is lowered by their ab-
sence. Meanwhile, rotting food-waste lies
stagnant and fermenting in the colon, giv-
ing rise to gases which are forced back into
the stomach, thus souring the food. Other
acids and impurities are created; they enter
the blood stream and thus attack and
weaken every vital part of your body.
READ THIS
"ILLNESS VANISHED IMMEDIATELY"
Tewkesbury, Tasmania.
"I have to tell you that I felt great benefit
from COLOSEPTIC. I was suffering from 'flu.
I was ill for a month. After taking but a
few doses I felt much better. The dry cough
left me entirely. Am telling my neighbours
about it now,"
A.E.T.
(The original of this, letter
may be seen at Head Office).
Stomach distress and acidity do not, as is popu-
larly supposed, result from just indigestion, for
this, too, is only a condition arising from the real
cause. As Dr. Oppenheimer, the celebrated
Berlin physician, points out, these complaints are
entirely due to self-poisoning (autoxima). That is
why preparations which act only on the stomach
can give no permanent relief. The clogged colon,
where the cause of autoxima begins, must be
cleared of fermenting debris before real relief
from stomach distress, indigestion, gastritis,
belching, bloatedness, gas pains, sourness and
ulcers can be effected. So clear your colon now.
ENJOY REAL HEALTH
The left illustration shows your
colon clogged by fermenting
food waste. Your partial bowel
movements may be regular, but
modern food has clogged your
colon and auloxima is poisoning
your system. You feel depressed,
bloated. You are troubled with
gas pains, sourness, constipation.
You cannot avoid it. Laxatives
are useless—they only act °n|111—n
the lower part of the bowels; they do not clear away the gas-
generating poisons from the colon-wails. COLOSEPTIC, however,
activates, and cleans and evacuates the entire colon of waste matter,
as shown in the right hand illustration. Its tonic action also tones up
and activates the three other eliminative organs the pores of the
skin, the respiratory system, and the kidneys. Clear your colon with
COLOSEPTIC now, and you'll know what it is to be really free from
many forms of stomach distress and, indeed, most forms of sickness.
You'll know what it is to be vigorous and vital as in healthy youth.
IMPORTANT BOOK ON AUTOXiMA FREE
An intimate and important booklet, giving all the facts
about autoxima, will be sent FREE if you complete and
mail the coupon for a demonstration jar of COLOSEPTIC.
Learn how you are unwittingly poisoning yourself and pav-
ing the way for disease. Don't delay, mail the coupon now!
CLOGGED
COLON
UNCLOGGED
COLON
I
net Iculh*** 601
coiose|
I AUSTRALIA ) (j
*o-u o f com** ll v:
*UWTOW« -
**** 1 0WT M i
-
DRINK
Colosep tic
(WAY# E r S IMPROVED «F OR MU LA )
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At oil CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., Box 3415 R. G.P.0.. Sydney.
CUP OUT N. 3.
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
Box 3415 R, 5.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book
on Autoxima in plain envelope.
Also send me my demontiratior
jar of COLOSEPTIC, for which I
enclose I/- in penny stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS
