

ORIENT LINE EXTENDS
THIS POPULAR SERVICE/
ORIENT
LINERS
CARRY
TOU Rl ST
CLASS
n -M S OfiSOVA /2,000 Tons
NOW
OfiMONV£ tsjooo.ran*
I#K
>s
e °-oooTo
nx
A
% •*
d * N
**%
.•;.. •op •■ A^*^Ooa-o.Vcc.
\A:
m
m
-tS'
:
*■ll*l
Hs
Hi
1
#
9vV
Op
‘Orion’ will make her
maiden voyage from
Australia at the end
of Nov ember and will
sail again in March.
?ps
•a.;
■*•:■••
TOURIST CLASS SERVICE
ORION
ORONTE S
O RF O RD
ORMONDE
0 RS 0 V A
u Orontes ” and “ Orford,”
each 20,000 tons, are under-
going extensive alterations so
that they, like the new
24,000-tonner “Orion,” will
carry Tourist Class in
addition to First Saloon.'
The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2906.
The Transport War
Wednesday, October 23, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for (935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Bd- frffljg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 1635
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
NEW
WAR-BOOKS
By sheer coin-
cidence, three
most telling war-
books appear here
in the month of
the world’s latest
outbreak of war. One is a novel; the
other two, by Australians, are plain
human documents, recording their
writers’ actual experience in the war and,
more especially, afterwards—very dif-
ferent experience ; that of one of them
so extraordinary that it would be in-
credible in a work of fiction and unbear-
ably dreadful if it were not lightened in
the telling by a natural philosophy of
optimism, the survival of which is no less
a marvel than the author’s own survival.
This book, There and Back, by “A
Tiveychoc,” achieves a great deal beyond
its author’s apparent intention. He aims
to represent only himself, and he repre-
sents the Digger. He has his own singu-
lar qualities which everyone did not
share; but taken altogether his book is
as true of the A.I.F. as of himself. It
is representative because most who went
from Australia to the war went as he
did, adventurously. So it is their story
he tells, as well as his own. It is wholly
appropriate that the Australian returned
soldiers’ own organisation should have
published it. If the Diggers altogether
had wanted to publish a representative
book by a Digger they could not have
picked on a better one.
Apart from that general and represen-
tative character of the book, the author’s
experience is quite separate and indi-
vidual. As he tells of it, it takes the shape
of a pyramid. First it goes gallantly
and laughing up to the peak, then as
sharply down. As a boy he led the choir,
as he says, in everything but singing, and
it must have been a great relief to the
verger when his voice broke. He went
light-heartedly to work at 14, and gaily
to war at 16. The bright line of ascent
includes training camp, transport ship,
Egypt—all accepted as good fun and the
best of adventures, as it was by pretty
well every normal young fellow who
went. The peak of the pyramid is a
few hours in the front line in France;
a high moment of excitement. In that
feverish moment, he is badly wounded
in the chest and elsewhere. Then the
line goes down the other side, through
experience which needs to be told in
the author’s own light-hearted manner
to be bearable. It includes more than 50
operations in England and Australia,
most of them before he had reached the
age of 20. Through the necessitous use
of morphia to keep him alive he became
an almost hopeless drug addict, as, evi-
dently, many others did also. He beat
all this, the drugs the most hardly ; and
he writes of it all so lightly, viewing
himself as a detached character, that his
book, very far from being anything like
a record of horrors, or in the faintest
degree repellent to read, is, rather won-
derfully, the brightest of light-hearted
reading. There is not in the whole of it
the faintest note of bitterness, of re-
morse or self-pity. On the contrary, the
writer is as chirpy as a cricket; and
there is nothing false about that, either —
his whole life proves it to be inherent
in him. Even so, it is extraordinary that
it should have survived the testing it
has had, though, of course, without it,
he himself could not possibly have sur-
vived. To have been through what he
has been through and to be jolly about
it is itself a singular achievement.
Of the drug-taking in military hos-
pitals, very little about which had
hitherto been made public, he speaks
openly and as an authority. The mili-
tary hospital, he says, “was a good
market for the war-profiteer whose
nefarious business was the .selling of
drugs. Morphia, heroin, atropine, barba-
tone, cocaine ‘snow,’ and even opium
found their way into the hospital unsus-
pected, while the attention of the authori-
ties was directed towards suppressing the
lesser and only apparent evil—drink. A
hollow bed-post, a cake of soap and
many other things supplied suitable
hiding-places, and a cunningly-contrived
fountain-pen, more than once lent to an
unsuspecting sister to write her report
or mark a chart, concealed a hypodermic
syringe.” Drugs, he adds, had to be
bought. The maximum pension of those
days, 30s. per week, was insufficient to
provide these and other requirements,
and so art leather-work was taken up,
he himself making at one stage as much
as £2O a week from this hospital occu-
pation.
Later, he was diagnosed as a hopeless
drug case. He survived and recovered
to laugh even at that.
Bringing the
War Home
Part, at least,
of “A. Tivey-
choc’s” intention
is well realised.
This part; “My
purpose h a s
been to draw a picture of the war and
its aftermath as I saw it, lived it, hated
it and loved it at the time.” He adds:
“And in case another war should ever
darken the world’s horizon, the follow-
ing pages may do something to enlighten
readers with regard to war.”
That last, however, is to be doubted.
He saw only nine days in action, and
only a few hours of that time in the thick
of it. What he saw was thick enough:
it was a taste of Fromelles; and his
account of it is raw and true. But it was,
putting aside for the moment what it en-
tailed for him, a too-brief experience to
enable others to grasp the reality of war.
It holds nothing of the slow horror, the
accumulation of months of brutalising
strain, the dragging hideousness stretch-
ing from the incredible inferno of
Pozieres to the gangrenous ooze of
Passchendaele. To “enlighten readers in
regard to'war” his brief picture would
need to be multiplied a thousand times
over and include experiences beastly and
ugly beyond belief.
Not that he deals at all gently with it.
It would be safe to bet that none of
those who speak lightly of war would be
prepared to read the whole of his book
aloud to their audiences. But the effect,
with such a brief moment of it touching
the actuality of war, is to leave an im-
pression of war as still in itself a gal-
lant adventure, to be horribly maimed
in which is “all in the game” and really
sheer bad luck. It may be an altogether
wrong impression to take from the book,
but one can only speak for himself, and
this reader’s impression is that, instead
of being likely to discourage anyone of
“A. Tiveychoc’s” breed from going
lightly to war, it would fire him with a
desire to go and do likewise, and if he
had to suffer afterwards, that would be
“pure stiffness.” After all, look what “A.
Tiveychoc” had to go through, and he
is not greatly upset about it!
A slightly more steadying impression
is gained from reading the other Aus-
tralian book in this trio, The Light of
the Mind, by W. J. Voss. It, too, deals
briefly and even more sketchily with
actual war, and its writer displays the
same sort of Digger courage and accept-
ance of the inevitable. But this author
was totally blinded at the war, and his
story, though it is cheerful enough, is
seriously written, and certainly impos-
sible to read for amusement. It is to be
read for enlightenment; as an authen-
tic account of how men blinded in the
war recovered from the terrible shock
of it to remain normal and to become,
useful members of society.
The author, a Queensland artillery
officer at the time he was blinded, has
achieved to a state of mind in which
travel and many other things that would
seem to hold little for the blind have
become to him absorbingly interesting, as
is his account of how he enjoys them. In
addition to this general interest, the book
holds a special appeal, and should be
very helpful to anyone who has to do
with the blind. It is impossible to read
it, bravely as its writer takes his misfor-
tune, without feeling intense pity for him
and all that war dealt with in this way.
Sir Philip Gibbs, in his foreword, rightly
says of it that “It should make every
reader vow in his, or her, soul that, by
all means possible to the individual, there
must be the use of intelligence and all
other powers of the human mind to pre-
vent another war, as bad as the last, or
worse than the last, for the maiming and
blinding of the world’s youth.”
A More Vivid
Picture
Unlike either of
those books, in
both of which
the war is only a
brief incident, the
third of this trio.
Paths of Glory, by Humphrey Cobb, is
concerned wholly with the actuality of
war. It is a piece of powerfully dramatic
war fiction, an imaginative tragedy fit to
be bracketed with All Quiet on the
Western Front and The Case of Sergeant
G rise ha. Written with a point of ice, it
crystallises the best of the dramatic ele-
ment of both those books. Its characters
are, perhaps, even more fully realised,
more sharply projected. Ordinary
soldiers, every individual one of them
is a visible figure to be remembered. It
seems impossible that anyone could read
of them without seeming to share per-
sonally in their feelings. That is to
say, it is a compelling piece of literature,
quite apart from its possible anti-war
value. It does not repel or horrify. It
is absorbing to read, and its effect is to
chill.
Little more will be said of it here be-
cause it is a book which could easily be
spoilt for the reader by giving away
the plot. Enough that it has to do with
a crack French battalion which, though
it ‘performs with extreme heroism in an
impossible undertaking, does not do
enough to satisfy the fanatic in higher
command, and is taken out of the line
and subjected to a terrible punishment.
All scenes —in the trenches, in front of
the trenches, and finally close behind
them —have the same realism which per-
vades All Quiet, while the plot might
have been thought of after a reading of
Grischa, though the author credits the
source of it to actual occurrences in the
French Army. Whether true to fact or
not, it is terribly true of war in spirit.
The author is coldly detached from his
subject, but every detail of what he de-
picts is real. It is relentless, cruel, crude
and savage, as a picture to be true of
war has to be. Just at this moment it
is a book that nobody should miss read-
ing. The reading of it by a good many
could very profitably be made compul-
sory. It is fine reading, a splendid piece
of dramatic writing, notwithstanding that
it cannot be read without a smouldering
anger. It seems to range up, without
any question, among the finest.
RED PAGE.
[There and Back, by “A. Tiveychoc” (Re-
turned Sailors and Soldiers’ Imperial League;
65.); The Light of the Mind, by W. J. Voss
(Chapman and Hall; 6s. net); Paths of Glory,
by Humphrey Cobb (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.).]
“STEELE
RUDD”
Since his death
on October 11,
“Steele Rudd”
(A. H. Davis) has
been widely desig-
nated the creator
of those comic characters Dad, Dave
and Mum. Yet one of those legendary
characters he did not create at all—Mum ;
he always called her Mother, and was
fond of her and respected her above all
his other people—and the other two, Dad
and Dave, are not in his first book the
figures they have become in the legend.
At any rate, a re-reading of On Our Selec-
tion failed to discover the fatuous Dad
of the legend or the sawny, moonstruck
person (hat we automatically label
“Dave.”
That is, except in the pictures! In
(hose we have that Dad all right, and
that Dave also. We hkvc as well a Joe
who is a cretinous imbecile, a Sarah who
is an obvious idiot, and a dozen other
characters in various states of mental
vacancy. We have, in fact, two entirely
different galleries of people—-“ Steele
Rudd’s” and those of the half-dozen
artists who “interpreted” him. It is a
striking illustration of the power the
artist always has over the writer in this
sort of combination that it is the artist’s
inventions we accept; and so we have
just had repeated in the obituary notices
the observation of somebody or other
that, while “Steele Rudd's” characters
were founded on fact, it was fact
“colored strongly by the observer.” That
is true, if for “observer” you substitute
“illustrating artist.”
The artists treated “Steele Rudd” from
the beginning, and on no grounds what-
ever, as a writer of farce, and very
shortly he was writing farce comparable
with that of their drawings. If this was
his original aim, a week-end’s re-reading
of him has been all misreading. The
impression it left was that nearly all the
farce in “Steele Rudd’s” first book, On
Our Selection, is supplied by the artists;
that the characters of the pictures are
almost wholly the artists’ inventions;
that the people in the writing are real
and not at all “colored by the observer,”
who, as a matter of fact, does not de-
scribe the physical appearance of a single
one of them, nor their clothes _ either;
that the selection life depicted is thor-
oughly true; that the writer did not
mean his people to be laughed at, but
to be taken as seriously as they were in
his own thoughts and feelings; and that
the comedy throughout is that genuine
comedy which has only the thinnest par-
tition from pathos.
It is rather extraordinary, when we
think of the legendary Dad and Dave,
how undescribed they are in this first
book, and elsewhere, too, except by the
artists. The fact seems to be that to
“Steele Rudd” all these people of his
were living people; he took them so
completely for granted that he simply
wrote about them as if they were as visible
to everybody as they were to himself.
Where does he project the appearance of
any one of them? Appearances —phy-
sical features, the clothes, the crooked
walking-stick and top-hat Dad wears to
o Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—our policy which knows no deviation. "THE SENIOR STORE”— While I Live Til Grow.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Needs For The Man On The Land!
JOHN DEERE
“RED JACKET"
m~ »
A Sturdy All-steel Plough, with mouldboard of hardened, soft-centre
steel and shares of crucible steel. The beam is of special steel with
high curve. Body is one-piece steel, with steel handles.
Cut, inches 9 10 12
Weight, pounds 89 94 108
Prices £B/7/6 £9 £lO/10/6
Single standard land wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6.
Disc Coulter, 36/-.
ZIG-ZAG
HARROW
These Harrows are Australian made, all-steel, and the best value on the
market.
Zig-zag Harrows, single, 25 teeth, weight 611 b. Bow for Whiffle tree.
Price 55/-
Single Harrow, extra heavy, 831 b. Price 80/-
Zig-zag Harrows, 2-wing, each 20 teeth, width 6ft. 6in., approximate
weight 1221 b. With Bow for Whiffle tree. 95/
Zig-zag Harrows, 3-wing, each 20 teeth, width 9ft. 1 Oin., approximate
weight I 691 b. Bow for Whiffle tree, £7/10/-
Lighter Diamond Harrows, 20 teeth. Price, each 39/6
“MINTERN”
HORSE
HOE
£4/15/-
The No. 8 is a Combination Horse Hoe and Plain Cultivator, exception-
ally well built to give a lifetime of service, at the same time being nice
to handle and guide and very easy running.
Fitted with a solid wheel to prevent clogging. Side standards can be
swivelled so as to turn hillers, steels or shovels to any position. Reversible
hillers work well as ploughs, and throw both to and from the rows. Side,
standards are hollow steel, fitting each side of the frame at the top, which
means added strength. Handles are flat steel, fitted with malleabje
shaped grips, having adjustments both for height and sideways.
REMEMBER—You cannot compare cheaper, clumsy Horse Hoes with
the well-made, smooth-running MINTERN MACHINES.
HAND CHAFF CUTTERS
No. 1 ’‘Uni” Cutter, made by
Anthony Horderns’. The “Uni”
Chaff Cutter, with mouth,
cuts two lengths, £in. and
■Jin. Sturdily built on three
PHc.': 8 -;.... £6/17/6
No. 2 “Uni” Hand Chaff Cutter,
made by Anthony Hordern
and Sons. Rising mouth, 7fin.
Capacity, scwt. per hour. Floor
space, 6ft. x 3 ft. 6in. Cuts
two lengths, Jin. and Jin.
£9/15/-
W 4
.£ll/12/6
The
WIARD
Patent
Hillside (f
Steel Beam
PLOUGH
Wiard Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with coulter and adjustable clevis. Jointer
and coulter are adjustable, and shift automatically when mouldboard is reversed. Will
plough Sin. to Sin. deep, I Oin. to 13in. wide; weight, 1181 b.
Price, each £ll/12/6
Extra Cast Shares. Price, each 7/,
Extra Forged Steel Shares. Price, each 36/-
The
MORGAN
Patent
SPADING
HARROW
£l4/17/6
EIGHT SPADES
We stock the following sizes:—
If with 2-wheel Fore Carriage, 80/- extra.
Harrows 4ft. and over supplied with two levers.
All these styles have the Cleaner attachment, preventing loading or clogging when ground
is wet and trashy, and when harrowing in manure, straw or rubbish.
The frames of all these Harrows are made of the best wrought iron and steel, and are
arched so that they will easily pass over uneven ground and any ordinary obstructions.
The blades are S-shaped, each being made from one solid piece of spring steel; they cut
into and lift the soil to a depth of four to six inches, turning and pulverising the ground
precisely like the hand spade. The gangs can be adjusted to any desired angle by the
hand lever; they float freely, and thoroughly pulverise and level hard, lumpy and uneven
fields. For deep and fine cultivation no Harrow equals the Morgan. Unploughed corn
stubble or hard-packed soils are made loose and pliable to a depth of five to six inches,
and, if used on light and mellow ground, work as shallow as desired can be done by
taking off the weight of the driver and setting the gang at a single angle.
Standard
EARTH
AUGER
42/6
Standard Earth
Auger, No. 8. Can
be extended from 8
inch up to 14 inch
&
In
i
rm
diameter, and will bore a post hole 3ft.
6in. deep. No farmer or fencer can
afford to be without one. Size, 8 to
14 inches. Price 42/6
Double-acting Force
Tank Pump - - £5
Double-acting Force Tan
Cylinder of polished iron;
valves, which hold the
valves, being under the
hood, are easy to get at.
The suction and discharge
are threaded for 2in.
pipe. Capacity, 2000
gallons per hour. jQ f
Price oLJj
with poppet
water. All
New “Uni”
Grinding Mill
The “Uni” New Grinding Mill,
fitted with patent flexible grind-
ing plates. Will grind to a
fine meal or kibble all kinds of grain,
coffee, oyster shells, dog biscuits,
oilcake, etc. 701 b. -ce:
Price
Beatrice Grinder, similar to “Uni
Grinding Mill, suitable for small
grinding. Price
77/6
Q Agricultural—Fourth Floor. Free
delivery City and Suburbs only.


Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[JI Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
£ Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
JIT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
£ Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
' a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Every Sufferer from
INDIGESTION
knows this to be true
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
DE WITT'S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists ; in
Large S\y-hlue Canister
town (in Our New Selection) —these are
presents by the artists.
This seems to be the dominant tone of
On Our Selection :
“It’s coming!” Dad said, as he shut the
door and put the peg in after seeing old
Bob out. And it came—in no time. A
fierce wind struck the house. Then a
vivid flash of lightning lit up every crack
and hole, and a clap of thunder followed
that nearly shook the place down.
Dad ran to the back door and put his
shoulder against it; Dave stood to the
front one; and Sarah sat on the sofa with
her arms around Mother, telling her not
to be afraid. The wind blew furiously
—its one aim seemed the shifting of the
house. Gust after gust struck the walls
and left them quivering. The children
screamed. Dad called and shouted, but no
one could catch a word he" said. Then
there was one tremendous crack—we under-
stood it—the ironbark tree had gone over.
At last, the shingled roof coriimenced to
give. Several times the ends rose (and our
hair, too) and fell back into place again
with a clap. Then it went clean away in
one piece, with a rip like splitting a
ribbon, and there we stood, affrighted and
shelterless, inside the walls. Then the
wind went down and it rained—rained on
us all night.
Whatever that is, it is not farce—and
neither is On Our Selection. The farce
came later, when, as is suggested, the
influence of farcical-minded artists took
hold of the writer. The worst sufferer
■in this transaction appears to have been
Dad. Here, in On Our Selection, Dad
is not merely a spectacle to entertain
the ribald. Later, he is wholly that.
Pitfalls and trips and snares are every-
where to bring him down and make him
look ridiculous. He has become a
legendary figure of fun ; a fatuous old
ass to be paraded by farcical comedians.
It seems a hard fate for the man who
went on some months before to the selec-
tion to “put up the house and dig the
waterhole” ; who, in those early days
of clearing, “would never take a spell” ;
of whom it had to be said, with admira-
tion, “How he worked!” and “Dad
worked like a horse himself, and expected
us to do the same” ; who was to be seen
down in the paddock “grubbing—grub-
bing in 130 deg.”
In the next book he suddenly becomes
all that the artists had insisted on from
the first. He even blubbers! “If there
was one thing more than another we
couldn't stand, it was Dad blubbering.”
Instead of being the driving force on the
new selection, he is its standing joke.
His projected trip to town is welcomed
with hilarity. With Dad away there
would be
no one to look on while the cows were
being milked; no one to stand in the pad-
dock all day while the hay was being
raked and carted and stacked; no one to
fuss round and be a nuisance to Dave
while he sold a draft of fats to a butcher
or drove a profitable deal with the pig-
buyers; no one to yell boisterously for the
whereabouts of any of us when we
chanced to be concealed from view for a
moment or two by a dray or a haystack
or something; no one to annoy the men
who worked hardest, and to incite them
to strike and seek employment elsewhere;
no one to molest Regan’s bull when it
came round our way
And the rest of it. “Colored strongly,”
as they say, “by the observer.” In
plainer language, caricature; and, in
the inference that is taken here, carica-
ture inspired by a bunch of caricaturists.
“Steele Rudd” wrote truer than that, as
anyone who will read On Our Selection
without the pictures will see for himself.
C. M.
Humorous
Story
Competition
The Bulle-
tin’s Humorous
Story Competi-
tion last year
produced such an
excellent lot of
amusing yarns
that it has been decided to hold a similar
contest this year.
The prizes (in addition to payment at
usual rates on acceptance for all stories
published) are:
First .. .. .. £l5
Second .. .. £7
Third .. .. .. £3
The rules are few and simple.
Each entry must be the original work
of the competitor, and must be accom-
panied by a declaration to that effect.
Entries may take the form of short
stories, essays or narrative sketches.
Length should not exceed 3000 words.
Pen-names may be used, but the full
names and addresses of the winners will
be published when the results of the
competition are announced.
There is no limit to the number of
entries a competitor may submit, nor to
the number of laughs an entry may
contain.
No member of The Bulletin staff
may compete.
It is not intended to wait until the
closing date before publishing entries ;
any considered to have a chance will be
paid for and published week by week as
they come to hand.
Closing date: January 31, 1936.
Address entries:
“Humorous Story Competition,”
c/o Bulletin,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
“Tiburon”
So Far
To my mind
the outstanding
feature of Tibu-
ron is that it
reveals the re-
markable change
in the “atmosphere” of the small country
town since the last generation. Miss
Tennant’s picture gives us people and
surroundings which are absolutely foreign
to the people and surroundings to be found
in Lawson’s stories or in Tom Collins's
Such Is Life. The gradual opening-up
of the backblocks has developed a style
of rural dweller differing strongly in
many degrees from his father. Lawson’s
Steelman probably exists to-day, but he
was common 30 years ago, and 1 doubt
if he could be found in a search of a
dozen modern Tiburons.
M. G.
A Satchel of Books
Heaven High—Hell Deep, by Norman
Archibald (Heinemann; Bs. 6d.). A
young American who was with his coun-
try’s Air Force in the war and was
brought down by anti-aircraft gunfire
and made a prisoner tells his tale. He
writes as excitedly as if he was still living
through it all, and is most interesting for
the true impression he leaves of the wild
enthusiasm with which Youth goes into
war. If the part America played in the
war needs any more moving-picture em-
phasis, this should provide the basis for
a good thrilling effort.
Perfume from Provence, by Lady
Fortescue (Blackwood; Bs. 6d. net).
Charming chapters that are well described
in the words of the title. Writing of a
house with terraced gardens which she is
having refashioned on a mountain side
in Provence, the author brings in as
whimsical individual characters the
swarms of simple French and Italian
workmen engaged. As she goes on she
is drawn into their affairs —weddings,
saints’ days, feast days, and the like-
in telling of which she paints a delightful
picture of Provence and its people. The
writing is gracefulness itself, full of
human understanding and gentle femi-
nine humor.
The Principles of Contraception, by
Joan Malleson, M. 8., B.S. (Gollancz;
Dymock’s ; 65.). A brief survey of the
subject, addressed to general practi-
tioners and instructive to the general
reader. The writer has had considerable
experience in general practice and birth-
control clinics, which are increasing in
number in Great Britain. Her work is
based on the results of recent investiga-
tion into the success and failure of
various methods in actual use.
Follow the Furies, by E. Carroll
Chilton (Eyre and Spottiswoode; from
Moore’s Bookshop ; 7s. 6d.). A sound
novel in a sense in which the term can
rarely be applied to present-day fiction.
It has plot, and plot within plot; theme
and careful character studies ; a change
of direction midway which takes the
reader by surprise ; and it puts up some
ideas to think about afterwards. The
leading character is a writer of fiction of
this same sound kind ; a man who has
theories about life, child-rearing, sex and
the marriage tie. There are two children.
On the boy, upbringing according to these
theories has no serious effect; it has
disastrous effect on the girl. The general
argument roughly ' is that such theories
are all right to their holder if he has
enough selfishness to stick to them, but
are mighty dangerous to others about
him.
Comrades of the Great Adventure, by
,H. R. Williams (Angus and Robertson ;
65.). Written like the author’s earlier
work. The Gallant Company, in an easy,
flowing style, and revealing a keen obser-
vation and a knowledge of the Digger
and all his ways, this is a good tale of
incidents in camp, billet and line, livened
with typical A.I.F. humor, and ranging
over the post-Gallipoli period—desert
march, Somme mud and on to the Armis-
tice. The author is too well aware of
war’s rottenness and futility to glorify if,
but he knows, too, the worth of the
A.T.F.’s great spirit of camaraderie.
Black Valleys, by M. W. Peacock (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.), is described on the
wrapper as “one of the most powerful
novels yet written by an Australian.’’
The adjective is hardly justified. The
story rambles over three generations, and
the scene is laid partly in rural N. S.
Wales and partly in Prague. It is a har-
rowing yarn in which all the women
suffer such hardships and tribulations and
the men have, comparatively, such an
easy time that the sex of the writer is
not difficult to guess. Characterisations
are conventional, sketchy and without
life. Possibly the Czech local color is
authentic, but it is done in pale pastels ;
the Australianism could have been done
by anyone with access to a good encyclo-
paedia.
England, Italy and A hyssinia, by
Maj.-Gen. H. Rowan-Robinson (Clowes ;
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). Though
events since the writing have thrown the
speculations on war possibilities, League
action and the like already out of date,
the little volume can be read with in-
terest for its expert survey of past deal-
ings with Abyssinia by England and
Italy. These include an excellent descrip-
tion of England’s own war against the
disputed land, described by Sir John
Fortesque as being upon the whole “per-
haps the most difficult and dangerous
enterprise in which a British army was
ever involved.”
A History of Foreign Words in Eng-
lish, by Mary Serjeantson (Kegan Paul;
21s. net). Should be on the shelf of
everyone interested in the structure of
our language. In addition to being wide
in scope and painstakingly careful in
compilation, it has enough narrative in
its form to be described as a good story
of one of the most peculiar of old
British customs, that of absorbing into
the language any word of another that
saved the trouble of inventing a new
one. The author gives sources and dates,
with quotations embodying the first use
of words in English. Australia has not
contributed many, and, with the excep-
tion of “boomerang” and “corroboree,”
hardly any at all to be given a wider
application than the original purely de-
scriptive meaning. Apparently “kan-
garoo” was the first Australian word to
be recorded —by Cook in 1770. Before
that century was out four more had been
added—“dingo,” “corroboree,” “wara-
tah” and “wombat,” “Boomerang” was
recorded in the next century, with 10
other words, including “koala,” “myall,”
“joey” and “budgerigar.” Another,
“paramatta,” as the name of a fabric,
must have died not long after its birth
in 1834. No one nowadays calls for a
yard of it.
Spirits Under Proof, by Alan Griffiths
(T. Werner Laurie ; 7s. 6d.), seems to
owe something to Barry Pain, who wrote
The Return of Crusoe and a short story
about the world’s funniest yarn which
went floating around looking for some-
body to write it. Mr. Griffiths’s hero is
Alfred Pawsey, a Cockney, a bit like H.
G. Wells’s Kipps, but not half as human,
being entirely a boundah and an out-
sidah. Nevertheless, he is a link with the
spirit world. Dean Swift dictates to him
“The Return of Gulliver” ; Shakspearc
gets him to transcribe a magnificent play,
“Armageddon,” based on the Great War;
Byron gets him started on a continuation
of “Don Juan.” George Meredith, as
chairman of the author-spirits, speaks to
Pawsey frequently. Richard Wagner
fries to use him as amanuensis for a tre-
mendous music-drama, but that’s a flop
—there’s no musical shorthand. Swift is
prettily parodied ; the rest of the great
literary figures are not so convincing.
The Empress Catherine and Princess
Dashkov, by H. Montgomery Hyde
(Chapman and Hall; 15s. net). Brings
Catherine and her brilliant friend Das-
kova wonderfully to life, and makes a
capital story of their varying friendship.
The book’s leading character is the
Princess. She holds the author’s un-
divided interest, and when she goes on
her two tours of England and the rest
of Europe he follows her and lets Russia
take care of itself until their return. In
addition to this central story, which
some fictioneer is certain to pounce on
very shortly, there is a fair impression of
Russia on one of the rare occasions in
its history when if was not indulging
its predilection to have a lunatic for its
ruler.
Sharks and South Sea Islanders, an
insane half-caste and an “occult island,”
scientists and submerged ruins for which
they are searching, all have a place in
Jock McLaren’s The Devil of the Deeps
(Philip Allan ; 3s. 6d.). There’s no lack
of action, and blood flows freely—on one
occasion the horror depends on the fact
that it doesn’t flow. The author’s main
difficulty is keeping sufficient characters
alive to round the thing off.


FOR INFORMATION ONLY—The whole of the shares offered for subscription
having been fully subscribed.
CUTHBERT’S MISIMA GOLDMINE
LIMITED
Registered under the Companies Ordinance, 1913-1026, of the Territory of Papua.
Authorised Capital, £200,000,
DIVIDED INTO 400,000 SHARES OF 10/- EACH.
Ist issue—260,000 Shares of 10/- each.
40.000 Shares of 10/- each to be issued as fully paid up to the Vendor.
100.000 Shares to be held In reserve.
400.000
Directors:—R. D. BERTIE, Port Moresby, Solicitor; Hon. TOM NEYITT, M.L.C., Port Moresby Planter;
H. G. CARTER, 8.E., M.I.E. Aust., M. Inst. C.E., Eel. A.M.1.E.E., O'Connell Street, Sydney,
Engineer; FRANK HAMBRIDGE, 22 Bridge Street, S'ydney, Ore Buyer; C. O. RUTLEDGE,
M.1.M.M., Abbott Street, Cairns, Engineer.
Bankers:—BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES, Port Moresby, Samarai and Sydney.
SolicitorsLAUßENCE & LAURENCE, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney; with R. D. BERTIE, Port Moresby.
Secretary and Sydney Office:—CHAS. C. BOWN, 22 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Auditors: —TßOUP, HARWOOD & CO., 20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Registered Office;—POßT MORESBY, PAPUA.
OBJECTS.—This Company has been formed with the object {inter alia) of purchasing the Goldmine
and Property at Misima known as New Misima Gold Mines, Ltd.
The property comprises 160 acres 3 roods 4 perches of Goldmining Leases.
Included in this property are:—
I Ten-head Stamper Battery and Building covering same.
1 70-h.p. Ruston Hornsby Oil Engine.
1 Cyanide Plant, complete with all necessary vats and connections for treatment of 15,000
tons ore annually.
Assay Office and Smelting Room and equipment in each.
Office Building and Store.
Residences for Manager and White Staff.
Houses and Hospital Buildings for Natives.
All tools and equipment in use in the Mine and Treatment Plant and in Transportation Work.
A Foreshore Harbor Allotment at Buogauia, and certain Timber Rights and Areas.
The property is situated on the Island of Misima, on the Louisiade Goldfield, in the South-eastern
Division of the Territory of Papua.
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION.—The consideration for the purchase is the sum of £95,000,
payable as to £75,000 in cash and as to £20,000 in fully-paid-up Shares in the Capital of this Company.
PRESENT OPERATIONS. —The Vendor Company is at present mining and treating approximately
10.000 tons of ore per annum, and its record of operations during the past four years is as follows:
OPERATING RECOVERIES AND “ADD IN” COSTS.—During the past four years the recoveries
per ton of ore—taken as it comes—have been as follows:
1932. 1933
Gold at Par (£4/4/- per oz.) .. . . 23/9 22/5
Gold at Price Realised .. .. .. 34/5 39/2
And the “All In” Costs have been .. 16/3 18/6
The above “all in” costs include a bonus paid to all the white
s_per cent, of each dividend paid during the year.
1934. 1935.
20/5 24/10
40/1 50/10
18/10 20/6
staff—such Ixmus amounting to
DIVIDENDS.—The Vendor Company during the past four years has regularly paid a monthly
dividend. Beginning at 6d. per share per month (when gold was £4/4/- per oz.), the dividend has
been stepped up to 1/-, 1/6, and is now 2/- per month. In addition to paying 90 per cent, per annum
for the last two years, the Company has built up a cash reserve of £14,0'00 invested on fixed deposit
in Bank of New South Wales. The present dividend rate (viz., 24/- per share) is 120 per cent, per annum.
PROPOSED OPERATIONS.—The present issue of Shares will provide a sufficient working capital
with which to step-up the treatment plant from 15,000 tons per annum to 40,000 tons per annum.
This enlargement of the treatment plant can be undertaken with practically no interruption of current
operations. Arrangements under the Option Agreement are such that the Vendor Company, upon receiving
payment, will hand over what is, in effect, a very profitable going concern.
In addition to taking over the white staff at present operating the property, the Company acquires
the roll of trained natives attached to the enterprise.
PURCHASE OF STORES.—The Company will also take over at cost the supply of Mine Stores.
EXAMINATION OF PROPERTY.—Mr. C. G. Rutledge made an inspection of Use mine last
month, and recommended the Company to purchase this property. Mr. Rutledge’s radio imen the
subject reads as follows: M
“Consider property very valuable and recommend option be exercised. Within six
weeks taking over output will be 1750 tons monthly with profit per ton same as present
owners. Within 12 months 3400 tons monthly should be reached. Consider 300,000 tons
will be obtained from Southern Section above drainage level. Unable inspect Northern
Section, but, after inspecting Pratten’s Mt. Sisa property (on the northern end of Misima)
workings and Block 10 Plans, fully expect large tonnage will be obtained from Northern
Section. Proposed allowance capital expenditure will be ample.”
!t will be noted from the above report that Mr. Rutledge estimates within six weeks of taking over
the property the output can be stepped up to 1750 tons monthly, or 21,000 tons per annuni Mr
Rutledge estimates the profit on this will be the same as is being achieved by the present owners viz '
P er , , ton of ore. It will be also observed that Mr. Rutledge considers that within twelve mo nr hi
the objective of 40,000 tons per annum (3400 tons per month) should be reached.
Upon a 40,000 tons per annum basis the 300,000 tons of ore which Mr. Rutledge considers will
obtained from the Southern Section will provide morfe than seven years’ work for the treatment -nln.
During that period some attention can be paid to the ore which is known to exist in the Northern aLt,-
as referred to by Mr. Rutledge, and also to the possibilities of the ore body below the oxidised zone 1
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application Is now being made for the Shares to be listed
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Hobart.
on the Stock
Exchange,
r
A
1
\kS
m
■"3
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
ImudumthdkfdamnMmfm
(vuxjw us
******
Cj ca/C* tuuiA>/ Cv C^UielteJ*
ND that really is sound advice. A Gillette
*■ safety razor is the one gift a man is certain to
appreciate. It means so much more than just a
Christmas present. It means a perfect shave each
day of the year, especially with those new Blue
Gillette electrically-tempered blades. Complete
Shaving Outfits from 2/6 to 35/-.
No. 77 Set. An entirely new
and improved razor—the guard
and handle are combined
in one piece. Complete
in walnut coloured hy-
gienic moulded case, with
three of the new Gillette
slotted blades, and two if
blade holders .. 6/- 111
MM
For the man who al-
ready has a Gillette
Razor, there is the
Blue Gillette Special
Christmas Box con-
taining 25 electrical-
ly tempered Gillette
Blades .. io/-
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND.
The Boss of the Double L, by Tex
Curran (Collins Wild West Club;
7s. 6d.). Young Scone Happerly is a
satisfying hero. Of course, he doesn’t
measure up to the hell-fighting, two-gun
men of other days, but then Westerners,
like soldiers and schoolboys, are nor
what they useter be, he does do his
job, and it’s not easy. Evans Cross,
who’s taken charge of Mary Lester’s
ranch and wants to take charge of
Mary, too, is a worthy target for any
cowboy, and Tappen and Whitson are
, . .7 ,
fnW w ’ trt u "c 6 arC
, 18 on fit But Scone looks after
em all, and Mary likes the way he
doe ? lk
The Scheme of the Universe, deduced
from the Theological Writings of
Emanuel Swedenborg, by An Amateur
Theologian (Dent; 6s. net). Puts the
Swedenborgian philosophy into an
authentic English idiom—something not
achieved in any of the translations of the
seer’s works with which this commen-
tator is familiar. Swedenborg is usually
referred to as a “mystic,” possibly be-
cause of the obscurity of some of his
language, but the pillars of his doctrine
arc as logical as one might expect from
a man who was offered a chair in mathc-
r re -
This anonymous work is an
troduction to the study of the teachings
of a most remarkable man.
.
Titanic and Other Ships, by Com-
mander Lightoller (Nicholson and
Watson ; 7s. 6d. net). The only surviving
officer of the Titanic tells his story of
th at and many other adventures of a
lifetime at sea which began in a sailer
of last century. It is a breezy, salty
account ’ which includes even being
wrecked on a desert island and fighting
albatrosses. “An albatross,” he says, “can,
and wilI » drlve his beak clean through a
man ’ s skull whilst swooping past m the
air > whic h very likely accounts for the
An< r ient Mariner grabbing one by the
" eck „ and . ha nging on-I don t blame
him. His pick of the worlds best
harbors is flattering to Sydneysiders who
make theirs a fetish: “Rio is a marvel-
|ous harbor, second only to Sydney.”
Altogether the book is capital plain yarn-
ing, with plenty of incident and the feel,
sound and smell of ships,
Morning in Gascony, by Jay William
Hudson (Appleton ; Moore’s Bookshop ;
7s. 6d.). Of its romantic kind, quite
delightful. The setting is charmingly
decorative, the people match it, and,
thou Bh the plot is thin, it is very pretty
and nlcel y worked out. Into this setting
the author brings a young American who,
to . r . reaso f ,f SOC t a , te . d h i S
"! s S es 1° dead ' h ! le
tn £ of , mak 'i 8 a T y °f . h ‘u’ the
au / hor , '. ur “ the reader °, n *° ,ak f an
St m
i hen small la " downer am0 "B superstitous
fore,g ” ers - wtth prop.nqu.ty, of course
arranging a pretty love affair, and Death
doing his duty away back in America at
exactly the right moment to make every-
thing end most happily.


GIFT
m
\i
a
o
•ft
i
B
I
m
:p-
-b
m
m
1.1
m
. ft-
■
mm:
ft ■'
n
T*’l
■
11
V J
rn|
mmrn
m
u
m
/'H
ft-
ft
ift
■i
7V/< “■■■
Bai J
s?
■
■
mm
,
ft-
dm
m
i
in
■
rs%i
•>;
v
■1
m
z
v. * .
■■■
: ' Ip;
M
■
: I
mm m
ft-" ft \%/
ft ft; ■
.
'ft-
y
m
liliKl
< ,S V
••
■ ' ;-••" •
|ftft
m
,
. : :
■mi
WZZ:^
W
ftft '■•;
I*
* -
-■■ii - *■• ”%»m
WMM,Z#P* x * ft
Ui’ SHI
•* ■
■
‘ft ■•■-..■ .
;■/.
’ I '/ /’" ft .
' V'‘/v 111 9»J
: :
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars —Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S undermentioned branches —
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr. Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
581-587 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2906.
October 23, 1935.
J. B. GULLIVER WAKES UP.
“How long I slept I do not know, but I awoke tied down in a very strange position.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange *must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WAR AND THE PEN.
While it lasted, the pen-war on wars was a notable
barrage of ink. Other wars have been followed by
similar outbursts, but in volume, violence and bitter-
ness there has never been anything to approach the
invective and abuse that enliven the anti-war writings
of (he last 10 years.
In coarseness, brutishness and all ugliness this
propaganda literature has all but outdone even the
war itself. Fortunes, or reputations, have been made
by the exercise of no other literary gift than the
ability and willingness to depict rats fattening on
the dead in No Man’s Land and suchlike horrors
of the filthy orgy of blood and guts, torment, crippling,
maiming and murder.
Until recently these works of horror were the
bookshops’ best-sellers. The more gruesome and
hideous of them found quick translation into 15
and more languages. Every poor neurotic whom
accident or fear of the hot time at home had landed
unhappily within gunshot of the front line could
become a world-known and -respected figure by
sitting down and whining for 300 pages.
These are mentioned only to recall the universal
willingness to lap up anything at all written against
war. In addition, there is a tremendous library of
the honest statement of real men who went willingly
into the horror, acted bravely there, and set down
faithfully what they had seen. They make anything
but pretty reading, though they overstate nothing.
Their evidence is genuine and weighty. Anyone who
wanted to find some ballast for himself against the
war hysteria of (his present moment could start read-
ing them now and not be near the end of them 12
months hence. Men of brains, plain men, officers,
privates and observant onlookers have brought this
indictment against war, and, coming from men of
their calibre and bona fides, a terrible indictment
it is.
Until this last month or two it appeared to be
so considered. The enormous sales of all this anti-war
writing prove that almost everybody must have read
some of it. It created a public demand so strong
that even our Australian censorship had to admit,
implicitly, that here was reading that must be regarded
as a public necessity, outside the category of litera-
ture altogether. This quaint institution of ours, while
banning as obscene and profane Australian writings
which dealt comparatively mildly with other matters,
let flood into the country writing dealing, as it had to,
obscenely with the obscenity called war. There is
enough coarseness in that savage classic of anti-war
propaganda All Quiet on the Western Front to get
an Australian author banned here for life. The book
did have a belated banning in N. S. Wales—perhaps
the most stupid censoring of our whole muddle in
this line—but everybody who wished to read it has
done so, and likewise with all the propaganda writings
of its kind.
Probably most of this popularity of war books
has to be attributed to ordinary human curiosity,
the word having got abroad that at last the truth
was being told about a public indecency that had
hitherto been smothered in flowery lies. However
that may be, the fact is that all this outpour of
anti-war writing was widely read.
For what?
As far as any sign of permanent effect goes, it
might all, like the war itself, have been for nothing.
Whatever comes of the present threatening storm, the
world has for the last few months been closer to
war without the guns actually going off than it had
ever been before. Lloyd George has been egging
others on to fight for weeks, and there are thousands
of armchair warriors ready to follow his shame-
ful example and buckle the sword on to anybody
but themselves. The makings of an army, and a
pretty good one, could be got together in Australia
in a few weeks, and on the slightest pretext.
Of those who would go —they would be the best
we have —not five per cent, would have the faintest
idea of what they were going into. They would all
know, vaguely and distantly, that “modern war is
horrible.” The meaning, the reality of that and
similarly pregnant phrases, few of them would feel,
in spite of the war books. They would go, poor
beggars, at the behest of over-age fire-eaters, of poli-
ticians seeking notoriety, of newspapers seeking
popularity—of these and perhaps more stupid others ;
and the things they had read in the war books, without
really reading at all, without understanding or feeling
two words of what they were being told —these things
would happen to them.
It is enough to make the pen-wielders of all time
sit up in their graves and play sad tunes on their ribs.
What a lot of balderdash has been written about this
fabulous heritage, the Power of the Pen! On the
evidence, the Power is restricted to the sentencing of
men to death —and worse. As a saviour the Pen
begins to look like a mordant joke.
THE TRANSPORT WAR.
A fact that galls the victims of the punitive taxes on
motorists and of the war on commercial motor trans-
port is that their principal oppressors are “anti-
socialist” politicians who were not long ago posing as
their champions. Mr. Casey suavely says that, while
as a motorist he sympathises with those who suffer,
as Commonwealth Treasurer he can promise them
no relief. As Minister of Commerce, Dr. Page
acquiesces. Yet 14 or 15 months ago Dr. Page was
demanding tax-cuts amounting to £20,000,000 p.a., and
although he did not specifically mention reduction
of the petrol duty of 74d. a gallon—more than the
retail price of some brands in the U.S.A. —he must
have had it in mind. He insisted, indeed, that “petrol
used in farm and stationary engines and fishing
boats should be exempt from duty.”
The voice of Dr. Page in the wilderness and
the voice of Dr. Page in office have different intona-
tions. But not so different as those of Mr. Bruxner.
Mr. Bruxner is now N. S. Wales Deputy-Premier
and Minister of Transport. When he was Deputy-
leader of the Opposition he thundered against the
Lang Transport Bill, which he described as introducing
“the most tyrannical kind of monopoly that could
possibly be created in any community.” The measure
would place major transport in the hands of the A.R.U.
(“at the beck and call of an imported gentleman”),
which would be in a position to “stop the wheels of
progress, starve the city and hold every producer in
the country to ransom.” If the Government rail-
ways and tramways were feeling the pinch of motor
competition, they had only themselves to blame;
Long before motor-lorries became efficient, long
before roads were in decent order, the railways were
beginning to show a loss, because they had become
top-heavy and disregarded the public need.
The Government tramways were equally in-
different: —•
Our railway and tramway services took it into
their heads that nothing could compete with them.
They became a happy hunting-ground for fortunate
people. When a new form of transport broke loose,
with all the brains of the commercial world behind
it, instead of the established utility, which already had
a monopoly, driving its competitors off the road by fair
competition and good service, it lay down and squealed
and howled to Heaven for some Government or other
to keep its competitors off.
Bruxner, the critic, concluded by demanding that
the bill should be “thrown under the table,” because
it would “put us back into the possession of the old
centralised grab-all which has prevented the proper
development of the State.” Bruxner, the Minister,
is now the Trumpet of Grab-All. His Government
has hearkened to the squeals and howls to Heaven, and
is keeping competitors off. The means vary from
taxes meant to be prohibitive to seizure of motor-
lorries on the King’s highway.
Nevertheless, a spirit of opposition is arising
even among U.A.P. members. It has been aroused
in their case by the contemptible persecution of
feeder-bus proprietors, who are denied security of
tenure and are obliged to submit their books to the
Department of Road Transport, so that if a man has
contrived to work up a business on which he is liable
for three income taxes the department (which pays
no income taxes) may grab it without compensation.
Feeder-bus proprietors are also the special quarry of
Government inspectors, an army of whom is necessi-
tated by the transport strangulation policy, in addi-
tion to the 600 Government busmen put on by the
anti-socialist Government —in the socialists’ time
there were none. As everyone knows who goes about
with his eyes open, N. S. Wales Government buses
are repeatedly overcrowded without anything ever
happening to the drivers (“the King can do no
wrong”), but for comparatively mild offences private
busmen are pounced upon and prosecuted.
Mr. Bruxner’s department haled one of them
into a Newcastle court last week. His counsel
referred to a case in which one Government bus had
carried 71 passengers, 40 of whom were standing, and
to another in which 25 children and five adults stood.
The department did not deny the assertion ; its excuse
was that these Government bus services were “experi-
mental,” that “the dates mentioned were just after
they were introduced,” and that the persons standing
were “mostly school-children.”
The excuse did not impress the magistrate.
Government buses are setting the private man a
very bad example. Legally, I can’t touch them. It is
not a fair thing for the Transport Department to
prosecute poor unfortunates who pick up a few more,
and then do it itself.
There are plenty of Government bus services in
Sydney which are not “experimental” and which prac-
tise overloading at peak hours. A count on a Mosman
bus —it comes down a hill at the end of its
showed 53 passengers, half standing. The vehicle
bore a plate saying that the manufacturers’ guarantee
was good only in respect of a load of 35cwt. say
28 ten-stone passengers —above the weight of the body.
Mr. Bruxner was a soldier before he became a
politician ; and he was a very good soldier. He should
know the value of motor transport from a defensive
point of view, if any man does. If he has kept in
touch with modern developments he must know that
every army is being mechanised. Abyssinia has been
invaded by a machine army; British Hussar regi-
ments are giving up their horses for motor vehicles ;
tanks, lorries and armored cars have been brought
to such a pitch that they can go almost anywhere
except over high cliffs, through big scrub and under
water. Nor should it be necessary to suggest to
Mr. Bruxner what resolute foemen could do to our
coastal railways, with their three gauges, since in
the war theatre in which he served a few Arabs with
British leaders and no more gelignite than could be
carried on half a dozen camels utterly disorganised
Turkish transport. Yet, along with responsible Min-
isters in other States, Mr. Bruxner seems determined
to keep Australia dependent on Government rail-
ways by crushing commercial motor competition, in
the process imposing taxes and prohibitions which,
though doubtless in keeping with Turkish and Persian
traditions, have never before been suffered in a self-
governing British community.
CANADA REJECTS BENNETT.
Canada, like South Africa, goes in for five-year
Parliaments, and since 1930 has had a Conservative
Government, headed by Mr. R. B. Bennett. The
Bennett Government went to the country on as
unique a Conservative programme as could be
imagined, and emerged a ruin: the Liberals return
to office with 165 members in a House of 245 —the
greatest majority in the history of Canadian national
politics.
Each of the nine provinces (the Yukon
Territory also has a member) rejected the Minis-
terialists. Mr. Bennett himself might have lost his
seat but for a successful bid for immunity from
opposition on the part of the Douglas Credit people
in Alberta (he is member for Calgary West), which
two months ago voted itself a Douglas Credit Min-
istry and has not had time to become disillusioned.
Eleven Douglasites were elected in Alberta (16
members) and two in Saskatchewan (21 members);
but Saskatchewan was carried by the Liberals, whose
leader, Mr. Mackenzie King, has a Saskatchewan
seat. Mr. Stevens, who was forced to leave the
Bennett Government on account of the circulation
of a pamphlet alleging “intolerable practices” in
Canadian business, was also re-elected.
It is a case of conservatism preached by Liberals
defeating radicalism and neo-socialism preached by
Conservatives. By-election losses had shown that
the people were turning away from the Government,
and, in desperation, Mr. Bennett dangled before
them a Canadian variety of the New Deal. He
attempted to justify it by declaring that conditions
under which capitalism was born have changed irre-
vocably, and that the crash of 1929 was in reality
the crash of a system ; hence the necessity for radical
reform. This alarmed not only financial and com-
mercial organisations, but people who believe that,
by discouraging private enterprise, attempts to regu-
late and control business do more harm than good ;
and the Montreal “Gazette” protested that the new
policy violated every Conservative principle.
In face of a good deal of opposition, the Bennett
Government had established a Central Bank, “designed
to be a powerful instrument of social justice” by
seeing that “the supply of credit available does not
depend solely upon competitive business forces.” His
New Deal included a proposal “to regulate the merg-
ing of manufacturing and trading concerns into great
organisations exercising monopolistic or quasi-
monopolistic control over whole departments of the
national economy.” He came out with a Natural
Products Marketing Act, embodying plans for State
action going far beyond anything thought of previously
in Canada. All this, Mr. Mackenzie King declared,
made unwarrantable inroads on individual liberty,
subverted Parliamentary authority and involved
dangerous bureaucratic interference with production
and distribution. Worse still, it would mean tampering
with the Constitution. Diehard Tories and farmers,
already alarmed at the propaganda of the Douglas-
ites and of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federa-
tion, swung in behind the old-school Liberal leader;
and down went the Conservative party that had shed
everything conservative but the name.
As the Liberal party no longer resents it, the
Ottawa Agreement was not an issue ; but tariffs were.
The Liberals advocated a general reduction of duties ;
the Conservatives were ready to drop them only
step by step with others. They have bequeathed to
their successors a fiscal war with Japan. To stop the
flow of Japanese goods, the Bennett Government
introduced special countervailing measures; Japan
replied with a surtax on Canadian imports, and in this
way trade between two of the four big trading
peoples of the Pacific is tied up. If the new Govern-
ment can arrange an honorable settlement, Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders will join in the rejoicings.
A Pacific unpleasantness to which an English-speaking
nation is a party can never again be of no consequence
to these English-speaking nations.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Sanctions” and Bluff.
Weeks before the foreseen crisis arrived at Geneva
Lord Robert Cecil, a League enthusiast from the
beginning, pointed out in the “Times” that the British
Government had not set down its interpretation of
or its intentions regarding “sanctions,” nor had it
asked Continental Governments to state what they
would do if Article XVI were invoked. He added
significantly that, although Continental countries had
renounced war as an instrument of national policy,
they had by no means renounced bluff, and might, if
put to the test, not only bluff on their own account
but suspect others of bluffing. The noble lord’s words
have come true.
France has been bluffing all along. It has the
excuse that, with the old enemy visibly growing
stronger, it cannot afford to alienate the ally of 1915-
1918 with which it has a common frontier, or the
one of 1914-1918 whose Prime Minister recently said
“Our frontier is now the Rhine.” With masterly
skill its M. Laval has pledged it to side with Britain
if the Royal Navy is attacked by Italians, and with
Italy if “Germany violates the independence of
Austria”—in which anti-Italian elements have been
expelled from the Government as a result of a sort
of coup d'etat —at the same time soothing the ruffled
feelings of the Duce.
The bluff of other countries was called when Mr.
Anthony Eden proposed “a sweeping boycott of all
imports from Italy,” as well as “an embargo on
exports of key products.” Austria and Hungary
objected ; Spain and Uruguay made “reservations” ;
Roumania demanded financial compensation for loss
of trade, and was supported in this by Turkey, Greece
and Yugoslavia. When it was announced that Britain
would not entertain the idea of financial compen-
sation the Roumanian delegate walked out. Accord-
ing to the “Daily Mail” something was said about
“States placing an embargo on exports of key pro-
ducts” being assisted to find other markets, “probably
in the British Dominions” ; but possibly the trifling
formality of consulting the Dominions wilTbe adhered
to first.
Australians, for their part, have been getting
little leadership and less enlightenment from Can-
berra. An arms embargo has been introduced, a
financial boycott is being prepared, and, if that doesn’t
wing our trade with Italy, a second barrel may do
it—an economic boycott, as ordered by the Sanctions
Co-ordination Committee. Pressed by questioners,
and plainly bothered, the Prime Minister said that
“Australia had exercised its right to adopt the sanc-
tions or not,” and would “exercise its rights in the
same way in dealing with whatever other sanctions”
(i.e., naval and military) were “adopted.” Absent
next day, he was contradicted by his Attorney-
General, who said that “once we declared Italy the
aggressor we were committed to follow League
machinery.”
Once any sanction is approved by the League, no
constituent member, unless it is able to have its case
treated as a special one, as provided under 1929 resolu-
tions, is at liberty to refuse to give effect to that
sanction without breaking its obligations under the
Covenant, although certain details of method and time
are left to individual Governments.
So that’s what the League lets us in for! Fortu-
nately the situation has been clarified by positive
assurances at London, repeated at Rome and Paris,
that Britain has at no time contemplated lone-handed
action against Italy. It has, moreover, been eased
by the effect produced in Italy by the gallantry of
bluejackets from the Queen Elizabeth, Valiant,
Revenge, Shropshire and our own Australia, who,
when an Italian liner caught fire outside Alexandria,
rescued most of the passengers and the crew. Good
old bluejacket! He is a greater force for peace than
all the windbags and doctrinaires who have done so
much to reduce his numbers.
♦
Be Prepared!
The racial riots on the Golden Mile, now 20 months
old, have been recalled to the rank and file of West-
ralian State politicians and to others by the appearance
of another compensation item on the estimates. Last
year £10,500 was voted (£9822 was spent); this year
the vote is £6,500, and that may not settle the account.
Compensation was forced on the State Govern-
ment because it utterly failed to protect the victims
of the riots, in which two persons lost their lives,
scores their jobs and hundreds their homes, which in
many cases were fired over their heads. The police
could do nothing, for the mob outnumbered them
hundreds to one. The Commonwealth authorities
would have been equally helpless had the State
Government asked them to intervene, as under Sec-
tion 119 of the Constitution it was entitled to do;
they had no military force.
There is the possibility of worse outrages being
planned now that Australia is technically at war with
Italy. The Governments concerned will deserve to
be kicked from their place if outrages are attempted
and find them unprepared. Thece are large bodies of
Italians in four States, and in one there have recently
been strikes in which Communists have been on one
side and Italian cane-farmers, stigmatised as “Fascists,”
on the other.
Both Commonwealth and States need to have
mobile forces which can be sent at once to possible
danger-points. This calls for the strengthening of the
police and the military ; at present both forces are
obviously incapable of dealing with sudden emer-
gencies. They will need strengthening in any event.
The recruiting of a sufficient number of police and
permanent soldiers would be a very cheap insurance
against possible perils and calamities, the money cost
of which might conceivably dwarf that of the Kal-
goorlie racial riots, though the money cost would be
the least serious feature.
4
Tasmania Finds Some Whales.
Stanley, Tasmania, woke up the other morning
to find that Providence had given it 200 whales.
Not very good whales, but very high. The matter
was referred to the Government, but Premier
Ogilvie, who has plans for recasting “the monetary
system” so that everybody may get a “national divi-
dend” for lying in the sun, has not yet extended his
great thoughts to the subject of whales. In the end
bullocks and motor-lorries and ketches were requisi-
tioned, and the carcasses were toted to “a convenient
spot” and buried.
Australia once led the world in whaling. Sydney
in the season was full of whaling-ships, and every
second citizen smelt of whale oil. Now the only
whalers whom the Government can find in Australian
waters since the Norwegians ceased operating on the
Westralian coast are Japanese. The Japanese are
on their way to fish Antarctic waters with five ships,
which loaded coal at Bowen (Q.) before coming on
to Sydney. They possess the very latest of modern
chasers, equipped with electrocuting harpoons, and
a modern 10,000-ton factory ship.
Nobody seems to see anything ironic in the fact
that Japanese should find it profitable to cross the
world to catch whales south of Australia. They are
already competing with us on our own shellbanks
and taking away beche-de-mer and other sea products
which, off the coast of any other country, would
provide employment for native inhabitants and ships.
Altogether, Japan has 18 whaling depots all over
the Pacific. Its fisheries find work for 1,500,000
people. Fish to the Japanese are as sheep and cattle
to the Australians. Last year Japan had 159,000
aquicultural establishments, which (over an area of
sea as big as the Northern Territory) released
602,000,000 incubated fishes.
With its northern shellbanks and its abundance
of coastal rivers and rich inlet feeding-grounds, Aus-
tralia ought to have scores of thousands of hardy
fishermen, many of whom, in time of trouble, could
be recruited for mine-sweeping and the like. As it
is, industry sits back waiting for fish to fall into the
net, and even when whales oblige us by coming ashore
we have no method of profiting by them.
♦
Concentrating the Cruisers.
Reading between the lines, nearly every post-war
British cruiser is now somewhere between Aden and
Gibraltar.
The Home Fleet sent its only cruiser squadron
to the Mediterranean ; all three cruisers of the East
Indies station have been reported at Aden, and in
the same part of the world are one of the two cruisers
of the Australian squadron, one of the four of the
China squadron and one from North America.
The cruiser Diomede has suddenly been “detailed for
service under the Admiralty,” Prime Minister Forbes
expressing the pious hope that its “departure” from
Maoriland is “a temporary measure, and will not give
rise to mischievous rumors that the Dominion is likely
to be involved in war.” And the new H.M.A.S.
Sydney is to leave for Australia “about October
24,” but “will probably call at French Mediterranean
ports” on the way.
The immediate object of this concentration of
force is, of course, to preserve naval supremacy in
the Mediterranean ; it does not necessarily mean that
a blockade is contemplated. Of course, there could
be only one answer to an armed attack on the Empire
or any part of it or any country under its protection
(Egypt, for example), if madness should impel it;
but while the initiative remains with the Empire no
blockade should be undertaken unless France, Russia,
Holland, Spain, Yugoslavia, the Scandinavian coun-
tries —in fact, all League members with accessible
naval forces—take their fair share of the burdens and
the perils. If the Attorney-General’s interpretation
is correct, Australia can be committed to military
action by the vote of a committee at Geneva ; but
it has at least the right to urge that.
Also, Australia and Maoriland have to look to
future possibilities. The concentration of so many
cruisers suggests that Britain is at present on good
terms with Great Powers not in the League, but it
may not always be so. Evidently the policy of
maintaining a small squadron which will fit into place
in the Royal Navy in the event of war is out of date.
It requires Australia to have in commission cruisers,
destroyers and sloops of standard British types, and
to leave the building and manning of all battleships
and all submarines, minelayers and other specialist
ships to Britain. Our R.A.N. is not a self-contained
fleet but an outlying squadron of the Royal Navy,
dependent on it even in peace-time for a variety of
services. This is no longer sufficient. There should
be at least one great battle-cruiser in these waters, as
there was in 1914.
4 •
The Young Nats.
Victoria’s Young Nationalists have issued a state-
ment of policy which has removed doubts aroused
by the declaration of one of their leaders that he
was a “Fascist without a shirt ” and produced the
impression that the Young Nats, may overwhelm the
parent U.A.P. “Retention of the democratic form
or Parliamentary election and constitutional govern-
ment ’—that disposes of the fear of Fascist aims,
with everybody doing the goosestep and “heiling”
some aggressive person with outstretched hand.
Maintenance of freedom of speech and expression
of opinion on political problems” is a jolt for the
various censorships, and “promotion of orderly and
peaceful change in the economic and social order,
designed to promote efficiency and advance the well-
being of all classes,” is not distantly reminiscent of
the original Labor party, without the socialistic ideas
that permeated it.
Coming down to details, the manifesto advocates
Federal control of wages and industrial conditions,
machinery to apportion public works as between
periods of rising and falling unemployment, reduction
where possible of working hours, progressive im-
provement of working conditions and an elaborate
scheme for obtaining greater stability in employment.
National health insurance and unemployment insur-
ance are among the other proposals.
Apportioning the expenditure on public works
will commend itself to many. During the past five
years Australia has had remarkable illustrations of
the wrong way of carrying out such jobs. When
prosperity waned there was a complete cessation
of Government expenditure on “works,” with the
result that the unemployment position was shock-
ingly aggravated. The moment the depression showed
signs of lifting, public bodies came out with schemes
for absorbing workers. Looked at from the most
sordid standpoint, it is probable that the public works
now in process of construction could have been
completed for 25 p.c. less than the people will now
be called upon to pay.
Hitherto it has been difficult to discover in a
political organisation the intelligence which the ordi-
nary citizen brings to bear in ordering his daily life.
It is pleasing to find the Young Nats, giving promise
of carrying out the revolutionary doctrine of applying
ordinary intelligence to public affairs.
*
Victoria’s Brown Elephant.
An official visit to the Northern Mallee has resulted
in the Government learning what everybody else has
known for years—that the worst areas are not worth
saving, and that the sooner they are abandoned to
pastoral pursuits the better.
Portions of the Mallee are covered to-day with
excellently-run farms—farms as prosperous as any
farms can be at the present prices of produce. Other
portions show a deceptive luxuriance after rains, but
turn into veritable Saharas in dry weather. The indi-
vidual losses of the unfortunates who have been
tempted to settle in these spots have been appalling,
and the stories of their hardships are heartrending.
The losses of the State, from the date the Mallee was
first opened up, look like the bill for a war.
Before a settler was placed on the Mallee it was
a waving sea of low scrub, growing from a soil of
such fertility that it deceived everybody. An initial
mistake was made —the same mistake which was made
in well-watered parts of the State ; the whole of the
verdure was cleared, instead of trees being permitted
to continue growing where needed. In the Northern
Mallee it was not the rain but the lack of rain which
did the damage. With no protection, the winds swept
across the arid steppes and dried everything up feet
deep. Then it continued to blow, and the dust rose —■
to sweep over the country for miles and overwhelm
the growing crops of the man who had imagined he
was more lucky. This sort of thing has been going
on for years.
But there is a method by which the worst areas
of the Mallee may be brought into action some day
if the authorities have sufficient vision. The scrub
which was wiped out by the mallee roller and cleared
away must be encouraged to grow again in belts
around each possible holding. The soils are fertile,
the development of irrigation during the next 20
years may be expected to benefit them, and when
the scrub has grown again to a suitable height it
may be possible to make the Northern Mallee into
the smiling district it was once expected to be. But
even with that prospect it will need a series of experi-
ments extending over several seasons to establish the
fact that the place is really capable of providing the
wheatgrower with a decent living.
*
No Skyscrapers for Sydney.
Sydney will never have a skyscraper area as has
New York. Neither will London nor Paris. Cloud-
cleavers even in New York, where they were flung
up because of the narrowness of Manhattan Island,
are definitely limited. Limited they must be always, if
only for the very good reason that, while it is one
thing to construct a building like N.Y.’s Empire State,
holding 19,000 people and having on the roof a moor-
ing mast for airships, it is quite another to get office
workers to fill them.
Those who have visions of Sydney’s skyline
some day resembling N.Y.’s skyscraper frieze over-
look the fact that here, as in Paris and Berlin, London
and Vienna, there is no necessity for buildings to
rise to great heights. Nor do they appreciate that
in the heart of N.Y. skyscrapers compose virtually
another city. For instance, the new Rockefeller Centre
has more than 2,000,000 sq. ft. (or 47 acres) of rent-
able space under one roof. It cost £50,000,000, and
provides for a resident and transient population of
175,000. Buildings in the greater part of N.Y.,
however, are no taller than Sydney’s and London’s.
If Sydney’s architects built to the limit of the
150 feet allowed there would be a good many idle
offices. In Pitt-street there are few buildings of the
maximum height; in Collins-street, Melbourne, where
the limit is 132 ft., there are fewer still. Sydney
estate agents report 70 p.c. drops in rents of Quay
properties and a smaller but still substantial fall in
the rentals of others near Central railway station.
The building of the Bridge and the City Railway,
together with the banning of bus services, has caused
a contractiop of the shopping heart of the city, but
it may be only temporary.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INK"
“Ex - Cavalryman”:
Daily newspaper
writers are amazed at
Abyssinian women ac-
companying their men-
folk to the front. It
used to be a common
practice in the British
army. With Wolfe’s expedition to
Quebec went 579 women, and in the
winter of 1759-60 it was recorded
that they were all “in good health, eat-
ing their rations and fit for their duties,
both by day and by night.” The ladies
in those days even figured on parade
states, grouped with muleteers and
animals; each dame got a half-ration,
each offspring a third. In the 1794 cam-
paign British women followed the Guards
Brigade into action at Tourcoing, and
were captured by the French. They were
returned a few days later to the British
lines, a French band at their head.
»5« $
“Pedantus”: Where did the road-
transport people in Victoria get the name
“hauliers”? Haulers they may be, but
they are no more hauliers than bakers
are bakiers. Whenever a new name has
to be found for an occupation or a place,
the official mind invariably stumbles on
something uneuphonious and foolish.
But for the intervention of Kipling, Medi-
cine Hat in Canada would have been
changed to Johnsonville or something to
that effect, while only the veto of the
Postal Department prevented the Vic.
Railway Department from calling one of
its stations Bondi to further confuse the
geography of Australia. It compromised
on Bonbeach —possibly the sillest and
most uncouth name on the map.
* * * *
“Runa”: There are times when it is
necessary to be fussy over the exact hour
at which a child was born. In his will
an eccentric old Maorilander left valu-
able jewellery to his first-born grand-
daughter. The M.L. relations were every
day expecting the birth of an infant
when a cable from England announced
that a daughter had been born to a son
resident there. Some hours later a M.L.
granddaughter made her appearance. For
the next few days cables flew to and fro
inquiring times, and affidavits had to be
requisitioned. The M.L. infant won by
half an hour.
* * * *
“Canon”: A Sydney paper credits one
Black with having “introduced” com-
munity singing at dinners in London.
This type of singing at meals was noted
as one of the pleasing customs of the
English 500 years ago by Charles
D’Orleans. It came to its prime in the
days of Elizabeth ; Erasmus, among
others, has left us an account of it.
Women not being present, the soprano
and alto parts were supplied by the
pages who waited at table. This type
of unaccompanied part singing has
always been one in which the English
have excelled, and the custom was car-
ried well into Victorian days.
* # *
“Bukshi Sahib”: The departure of
Tarrant’s team for India reminds me of
someone’s lament in The Bulletin be-
cause the players would possibly miss a
great treat in the elephant-fighting at the
Maharajah of Hyderabad’s silver jubilee
celebrations. It seems that they will have
a chance of seeing it after all, but they
“Would you mind changing this animal for another? He's too
passionate.”
wouldn’t have missed much if they
hadn’t. The elephants fight over a low
stone wall; the scrap consists in wrest-
ling with their trunks, with an occasional
prod from a blunted tusk, to the accom-
paniment of shocking reflections on their
female ancestors by the mahouts. The
fat old hathis take good care not to tear
their gorgeous trappings or touch their
abusive riders, and roll off at the end
of a bout very good friends. The decision
of each mill is on points, but only an
Indian can spot them. If you want to
reproduce the scene shut your eyes next
time you go to a wrestling match. Two
fat old gentlemen will be fumbling about
ineffectually in the middle of the ring
instead of elephants over a wall, but the
shrieks and blasphemy of the crowd and
the horrible animal smell pervading
everything will be just the same.
“Fames”: I wonder who started this
hunger-striking racket as a form of pas-
sive resistance to alleged injustice, and I
wonder even more where it will end. I
have an idea that it began, in the U.K.
at all events, with political prisoners in
Irish gaols. Over 50 years ago William
O’Brien obtained some celebrity by an-
nouncing his determination to go
breechesless sooner than wear prison rai-
ment, and the decision to fast rather
than feed in prison is really a develop-
ment of the idea. The English suffra-
gettes, 20 years later, seized on the notion
with avidity. Now it has occurred to
Welsh industrialists that there are possi-
bilities in voluntary starvation as a strike-
weapon, and 70 or 80 miners in a South
Wales colliery have adopted this form of
self-sacrifice, while emotional sympathisers
sing hymns at the pit’s mouth. In this
case, however, there seems to be some
doubt whether it isn’t more of a “stay-in”
strike than a hunger one, food being cer-
tainly available to the self-besieged re-
calcitrants, though they are said to be
much harassed by. rats and beetles. None
the less, a really conscientious hunger-
striker has a better chance to indulge his
hobby at the bottom of a mine than in
a prison cell; he can’t be forcibly fed.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Some years ago The Bulletin
published a par. of mine in which it was
slated that the three primary colors, red,
yellow and blue, were never all present in
the same species of flowers. You might
get red and blue, yellow and blue, red
and yellow, but not all three together.
Now I find that I was wrong. I have a
box of nemesia strumosa with about 50
plants, and there are bright reds, clear
blues and yellows all in flower in the
same box. In a lifetime of growing
flowers I have never before struck the
three colors together in the same family
of plants. The nearest approach was in
gladioli, but 1 have never seen what could
be called a true-blue gladiolus,
& >J« * ❖
“Vernier”: Instances of unhygienic
handling of food came before the Vic.
Health Commission last week, and im-
pelled the chairman (Dr. Robertson) to
express the view that all bread should be
wrapped at the factories. Many years
ago I was engaged in a survey work
which covered a big area of northern
Melbourne: I discovered a bakery which
had the stable next to the mixing room ,
and fowls used to stray from the stable
and perch on the edges of the dough vats.
At some of the dairies I visited I found
conditions just as filthy. The unfair part
of the business, economically, was that
the dirty fellows who kept such places
competed with chaps whose bakeries and
dairies would be models even to-day.
“Manton”: That picturesque ornament
of the English turf the Dowager Duchess
of Montrose was known on racecourses
in my time as “Carrie Red”—a blend
of her Christian name (Caroline) and
her racing colors. Still “Corrie Red”
(B. 16/10/’35) would have been almost
as appropriate. When well up in years
the duchess married a young man named
Crawford, the owner of a horse named
Corrie Roy, winner of several good races.
A sprightly old peeress, Lady Cardigan,
who published a book of highly-flavored
reminiscences some 25 years ago—and
who claimed, among other things, that
Disraeli wanted her as his second wife
—quoted in her book a scrap of catchy
jingle that went the rounds at the time
of the Montrose-Crawford marriage. The
first two lines of quatrain might be
blocked by the censor nowadays, but the
concluding ones are printable. They
ran:
Isn’t Craw a lucky boy
With “Carrie Red” and Corrie Roy?
* * * w
“Spare Baldwin”: How many men
keep count of their smokes? A Mel-
bourne enthusiast has been sticky-beak-
ing among the tobacconists. One has
a customer who smokes 80 to 100
cigarettes a day, and another who
does in 12oz. of pipe tobacco a week. In
comparison, the cigar-smoker who burns
70 a week seems an also-ran. Writer, a
confirmed cigar-smoker for many years
when he could afford it —and he didn't
light up Partagas either —could easily
manage his 10 a day. The statement that
some men consume 20 is harder to
credit. Certainly in Eastern Asia there
used to be many men round from Hong
Kong to Bombay who could beat that
record, but I am told that nowadays the
universal cigarette has chased the cigar
and cheroot off the field even there.
$ * » *
“Sixenate”; There are more free-and-
easy gaols in the world than Australia
could ever show (B. 9/10/’35). A N.S.W.
Judge who included Iceland in the
itinerary of jaunt abroad used to tell the
yarn of the big man he met one after-
noon during a walk about the island.
The two pedestrians kept together for
a while, but presently the Icelander
showed an inclination to hurry. Finally
he explained that he was a murderer, due
to be hanged in the morning ; he had
been released on an undertaking to re-
turn after he had said good-bye to his
sick mother. As her village was some
miles away it was necessary for him to
put his best foot foremost. The traveller
let him go ; next day, on making in-
quiries, he learned that the honest man
had returned in time to keep his appoint-
ment with the hangman.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Worth noting how the
armies of the world are adopting, bit by
bit, the items which go to make up a
British soldier’s working uniform. After
the war all hands donned the Sam
Browne belt which is the British officer s
distinguishing mark ;
in the U.S.A. they
even slap it on their
mounted police.
France has aban-
doned the light-blue
field uniform for
khaki. And a photo-
graph in an English
paper before me
shows a party of
Italian infantry
dressed in the khaki
field kit, complete
with collar and tie,
adopted by Britain
only a year or so
ago ; the outfit is
lopped with the Brit-
ish field service khaki
helmet. The men
looked so like Britons
that 1 was at first in-
dined to think the caption was faked.
Closer inspection showed that the rifles
were of a different type from the British
and were sloped on the right shoulder.
* * $ *
“M.”; Those whose duties force them
to don evening dress will rejoice to learn,
on the authority of a Melbourne tailoring
expert just back from London, that soft
shirts and soft turn-down collars are now
worn by all the best people in Britain.
Incidentally, he couldn’t get a bathing
costume in Britain or on the Continent
which would pass the censorship of the
Australian beaches. For some strange
reason, the average Australian imagines
England to be a wowseristic country,
whereas it is probably the freest in
the world. A Melbourne girl, recently
returned, told how, on an aerial jaunt, the
pilot took her over an island in the
Thames where hundreds of nudists were
sunbaking without interference from any-
body.
V -J- '(■ *l*
“Ung”: Anyone who wants mammoth
ivory in future will have to go to Siberia
and dig it up himself. For a long time
London was the centre of the trade in
the stuff, which, barring a yellowish color,
was quite equal to the “live” articles,
though at least 50,000 years old. Only
two tusks are left in the mammoth
corner of the great ivory floor at the
London dock, and consignees will accept
no more. Ivory-like preparations have
taken the place of the real Mackay for
billiard balls, piano keys and a hundred
similar uses, and now it is used only on
articles de luxe and in the arts. In this
connection, Japan now takes most of the
output of Siberian and East African
ivory for carving.
THOSE CANBERRA KIDS.
“Senator Leckie said that Canberra possessed some
magnificent buildings and was scrupulously clean,
but he had not seen really happy children there.
One never saw them spinning tops or playing marbles
or running about on scooters.”
The skies are wonderfully clear,
The streets are speckless, very near,
Yet something in the atmosphere,
It seems, forbids
The juveniles to school who troop
To hop and skip and shout and whoop
And spin the top and bowl the hoop,
Like other kids.
They’re just as fit, the Capital’s
Array of growing boys and gals,
As other cities’ Sams and Sals
And Sues and Syds.
But Leckie noted with a frown
That something in the model town
Appeared to keep their spirits down,
Those Canberra kids.
He found them prematurely grave.
They never pushed him from the pave
His Senatorial shins to save
From scooters’ skids.
He sought in vain the artless glee
That goes with marble rivalry
Among the whole fraternity
Of Canberra kids.
What is it makes them so sedate?
Propinquity to halls of State
Where politicians prose and prate
To earn their quids?
Do party storm and strife and stress
Their youthful levity repress
And set the stamp of seriousness
On Canberra kids?
He saw no happy nip-
pers there,
Or none like those you
glimpse elsewhere
Without a shadow of a
care
Beneath their lids.
They never bounded out
of school.
Conforming to the gen-
eral rule,
As blithe as troutlets in
a pool,
Those Canberra
kids.
He tells they take, by
Cotter’s banks,
No stock in boyhood’s
quips and cranks,
Its harmless frolics and
its pranks,
Its fads and fids.
On higher games their
thoughts they fix—
Environment’s a thing
that sticks —
And when for pastime’s
sake they mix
Perhaps they play at
politics,
Those Canberra
kids!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Alcaic”: Publicans so seldom set any
store by classical tags that I was pleas-
antly surprised to encounter Nunc est
bibendum (“Now’s the lime for a spot”)
placarded over the door of one of the
ground-floor rooms in a N.S.W. country
hotel. The quotation from Horace
struck me as so strikingly apt, and such
a refreshing change from the hackneyed
“Public Bar” or “Saloon Bar” that I
headed for what I naturally took to be
the shrine ol Bacchus. It was the dining-
room.
* * * *
“Likell”: 1 nominate a Tasmanian
Presbyterian parson for that £5OOO which
“Dr. Mivart” (B. 9/10/’3s> hopes the
English Band of Hope will not offer
for a non-alcoholic drink with a kick
in it. I found him mowing his orchard-
garden with a scythe on a midsummer
day, and helped him to punish a bottle
ol horehound beer, compounded by his
wife. Ten minutes later 1 sold him a
nine-quid set of books for twelve guineas
cash, and he was so pleased with the
bargain that he produced another bottle.
For two hours alter it was disposed of
1 lay prone on a hay-mow, blissfully con-
vinced that 1 was basking on the sunny
side of a fleecy cloud, with a lovely girl
pouring warm treacle down my naked
hack.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: One of the boldest bids
ever made by the pious Hindu for a bit
of dusturi has N.S.W. Premier Stevens as
its central objective. This eminent Aus-
tralian has received a grain of rice from
the Moslem staff of the New Delhi
museum. On it is written in red and
black ink a prayer, decipherable only
through a powerful magnifying-glass,
that long life and prosperity may be the
lot of Jack Lang’s opposite number. A
covering letter states that a verse from
the Koran was many years ago written
on a split pea and presented to Akbar
the Great. That mighty potentate, the
letter continues, gave the inscriber of the
verse several lakhs of rupees in token
of his appreciation. But Akbar had no
counterpart of a three-million deficit.
“Mako”: Priceless lines? Consider
the opening spasm of a pome on Rangi-
toto, which guards the channel all big
vessels traverse to Waitemata Harbor.
O Rangitoto,
No shilling photo.
Could ever thy charms convey!
There was a lot more, but not many of
the ancient volcano’s admirers got further
than the opening of the invocation.
* * * $
“Ba-bi-lo”: My friend “Croweater”
(B. 16/10/’35) is a little out of his depth
when he accuses some scientific “Oxford
don” —I wonder how he got there—
of passing on his accent with his English
to the Centralian savage. The rising in-
flection is characteristic in some abo.
languages, and so is the difficulty in re-
P r oducing the long “e” sound before
“ r ” —“spur” or “spar” for “spear.” Any-
way, if they mimic us, we are uncon-
sciously beginning to mimic them. Lying,
eyes closed, on Balmoral beach (Sydney),
not long ago, I found the flapper squeals
and giggles which rose all round me
strangely familiar. Memory soon placed
the likeness—the accents and intonations
were those of young gins digging for
mussels in a western Queensland water-
hole.
* * * *
“Barney”; The removal of a manual-
training building from the Parkes
(N.S.W.) primary school to the high-
school grounds, about half a mile away,
caused much frenzied scratching of heads.
The weatherboard weighed about 15 tons,
and it was thought it might be shifted in-
tact. The efforts of the first two con-
tractors dragged the end on to the foot-
path. There, having jibbed, it was left
for three weeks with its nose stuck out
over the roadway, a monument to mis-
placed optimism. Then two other re-
movalists tried their hands. They put an
oregon chassis under the thing, attached
two huge wooden wheels and hooked on
two caterpillar tractors, the council’s
steam roller and a forest devil. These
powerful auxiliaries shifted the struc-
ture into the middle of the street, but no
further; it took root again, a worse
nuisance than before. In the end they
had to saw it in two and drag it off in
halves.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The story of Glenelg’s de-
funct Luna Park (B. 9/10/’35) is typical
of amusement ventures of the kind in or
around Adelaide; the population isn’t
large enough to keep them running
once the novelty has worn off. Adelaide
hasn’t even an ice-skating rink nowa-
days. In pre-war days it did have a
Glaciarium, but the thing was ahead
of its time. Yet modern refrigerating
plants make light of the job of freezing
an indoor ice rink, and the hold that ice-
skating has obtained in other cities shows
the popularity of the pastime.
* * >:< *
“Hamlet”: The Danes are generally
credited with being a hardy, frugal race,
setting no great store on indulgence in
table pleasures, but the bill o’ fare fur-
nished at a “Danish breakfast” during
some celebrations at Prince Alfred Hos-
“Where's my wardrobe trunk?"
“ 'Ad it under me arm w'en I started, sir. It must 'a' A slipped out!"
pital, Sydney, hardly supports this view.
Fifty-eight dishes were served, and
their variety and richness suggest that
Lucullus could have done himself well
at such a banquet. One of the
more substantial solids—“a 241 b. cheese
which had been ripening in rum for
weeks” —must have been a novelty
to the guests, who included Ministers
and civic dignitaries. I have sampled
most forms of cheese, from the humble
Cheddar or double-Gloucester to Stilton
ripened with port, but the rum-matured
article has never yet come my way.
If it really forms a staple side-dish
on Danish breakfast tables, the Danes
must be valiant trenchermen. Possibly,
however, like the French, they breakfast
late and leave out luncheon. A man
who started the day’s stoking with
smoked salmon, sucking-pig and cheese
ripened in rum would be unlikely to need
another meal till nightfall.
* * * *
“Nipper ’: A young Sydney woman re-
cently stood in a hospital ward by the
bedside of her sister, just out of an
appendicitis operation. The surgeon who
had operated happened along. One keen
glance at the visitor and he asked:
"Are you feeling well?” Taken aback,
she stammered an affirmative. “Sure?”
he pursued. “Well,” she admitted, “I have
got a pain in the side, but it’s noth” •
but the surgeon was already beckoning a
nurse. Prepare a bed for this young
lady, he ordered. Then he turned to
her. “You have acute appendicitis,” he
explained ; “an immediate operation is
imperative.’ "But,” she protested, “I
must go home to” “If you do,” he
warned her, “it may be too late.” She
gave in, and in due course the removal
of a badly diseased organ proved the
accuracy of the diagnosis. The profes-
sion may know how a specialist, by. one
cursory look, can diagnose imminent
bursting of the appendix, but it must
remain a mystery to the layman.
♦ * ♦ *
“Fisher”; It’s a far call from war to
rejuvenation, but the struggle in Ethiopia
has definitely cut off the supply of
baboons for the Voronoff gland opera-
tion, the native hunters who formerly
supplied the market having been called
up for military service. An interesting
sidelight is that 50 or 60 baboons have
been brought to Australia for this pur-
pose over the last five years. Just an-
other of those little things Mussolini will
be blamed for.
# * * V
“Vieux Marcheur”: Abingdon Baird
was more than “a hard case’” (B.
16/10/’35). Nothing quite as black-
guardly came to light in the days of the
Regency, and 1 have in mind the Bath-
gate four, known as Newgate, Hellgate,
Cripplegate—he was lame—and Billings-
gate, the last-named being a fit associate
for her noble brothers. Baird never
moved a step without a bodyguard of
pugs, among them Jem Smith and
Charlie Mitchell. His favorite amuse-
ment was to throw a glass of liquor over
a stranger in some such bar as Romano’s
or the Criterion or to strike the victim
across the back with his cane. The
assaulted one was immediately grabbed
by the bodyguard and hustled outside ;
if he resisted, he was “dealt with.” How
Baird got away with this time after time
astonished many who did not realise that
no West End habitue dared lay any in-
. formation for fear of worse things.
* * * *
“Hoodoo”: In the inquest on young
Gordon Doherty, drowned at Strahan
(Tasmania), the coroner paid a hand-
some tribute to the dead lad’s courage in
trying to save two companions from a
capsized boat. Doherty was on a voyage
round Australia in a tiny cutter, but to
the discerning he was foredoomed from
the start. A photograph in one of the
Sydney papers of his craft leaving the
harbor showed his ensign at half-mast.
To sailormen of all nations this spells
only dire distress or disaster,
❖ ❖ * *
From an old acquaintance:
While the Child Migration Society in Eng-
land has changed its title to that of Fairbridge
Farm Schools, the kindred society in West-
ralia, which owes so much to Kingsley Fair-
bridge, is adopting a label from which his
name has been dropped.
Could Fairbridge revisit the scene of his
sacrifice, he would merely shrug his shoulders
and smile in his wistful way. He made warm
friends in Westralia, but always had to con-
tend with some prejudice there. Once a
solemn ass denounced him in Parliament for
having caned one of his charges at the farm
school, then at Pinjarra. He mildly replied
that he had undertaken a job in which the
cane had to be used now and then, otherwise
guttersnipes (he didn't call them that) of whom
he was trying to make good citizens would be
uncontrollable; but the explanation didn’t
satisfy his detractors: they said he was
“crool.”
Poor Fairbridge was a strange mixture of
the spiritual and the practical. Poet, dreamer
and clear-headed philanthropist, he was also
a first-class man with his fists, as he proved
when he beat Julian Grenfell, one of the two
sons of Lord Desborough, for the middle-
weight boxing championship of Oxford. A
few months later Grenfell was to write “Into
Battle,” one of the few Great War poems that
will live. When the news of his death—he
and his brother fell early in 1915—reached
Westralia, Fairbridge, a thrice-rejected volun-
teer, advertised in the “Times” imploring some
English reject to come out and take over the
farm school so that the founder thereof might
offer himself for enlistment in England; but
it couldn’t be arranged.
The last time 1 saw Fairbridge was in The
Bulletin office a few months before his death.
He had written a. novel of South African
life, and thought it might interest some Sydney
publisher. He had suffered for years from a
pernicious form of malaria, contracted in his
own Rhodesia, and it got him in the end.
* * ♦ *
“Bo”; “Steele Rudd” will be remem-
bered not only by his bucolic characters.
Ever since Cockney rhyming slang got
its first hold in this country the humble
potato has become the “Steele Rudd.”
The term survived extensive use through
the A.1.F., and the request still general
in mess, camp and other places where
men foregather to champ sustenance is:
“Railroad the Steele Rudds!”
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: It is true that the
hansom cab does not afford such oppor-
tunities for homicide as the taxi,, in
which the driver sits with his back to
the tare (B. 2/10/’35), but it did give the
blackmailer a chance. In London he
once availed himself of it so freely that
sophisticated Cockneys were careful
about taking a lady aboard a gondola
whose driver they didn’t know. Through
the little peephole in the roof the jehu
could see so much that, if the drive was
to be in the nature of what I am credibly
informed is now called a petting party,
the wise passenger took an umbrella and
hoisted it after taking his seat.
* * * *
“El V.”; Noel Monks, now in Abys-
sinia, was not the first Australian jour-
nalist to climb a fence in search of news.
I remember a cold Queensland night
when another enthusiastic cadet and 1
went catlike over a barrier of iron and
barbed wire and hid ourselves under a
grandstand until we might safely venture
out and hear some strike-leaders’ oratory
which was supposed to be strictly private.
The orators arrived. So did the crowds.
We mingled with them, and listened. All
went well until a vote was called for. I
voted enthusiastically, but my companion
in stealth had a conscience. Somebody
called : “Put your gory hand up! ” Eyes
focused on the neutral ; he was recog-
nised at once, and the crowd made a
dive for him, but luckily he could run
faster than he could write. I remained
and, when the disturbance died down,
voted some more. The experience was
curious as showing the composite nature
of mobs. So long as all the constituents
of one do exactly like the others, a man’s
individuality seems to be buried in the
general cosmos ; but let him do some-
thing different from his fellows and the
recognition of his apostasy is instant.
* * * *
“Monty”: Wodonga (Vic.) is a fine
example of the country town which
helps itself. During the past few weeks,
the residents subscribed to provide the
material for making footpaths, and the
council paid sustenance workers for the
labor. The most notable individual
enterprise was that of a publican
who offered to provide a footpath from
the police station —where all inter-
state motorists get their discs —as far
as his place of business, conditionally
on the erection of a signpost showing
travellers the way to beer and comfort.
The authorities accepted his terms, and
the path is being made.
* * * *
“J.E.L.”; In his answer to my criti-
cism of naval uniform, “L.J.H.” (B.
4/9/’35) says that there is nothing super-
fluous about the British tar’s rig-out. 1
wonder if he has ever seen a sailor’s
flannel shirt? In quantity of material
used, the mid-Victorian dresses had no-
thing on these masterpieces of fashion.
As for the jacky’s wide trousers, these
were designed not for easy rolling above
the knees when swabbing decks, but for
ease in discarding should a man fall over-
board. Anyhow, who wants to roll his
go-ashore trousers above the knees? 1
am also impelled to tell “Mr. Chucks”
(B. 18/9/’35) that white duck or drill
suits are still worn in the R.A.N. They
are aboardship wear in any Australian
capital on Sundays, but they only appear
ashore north of Capricorn. Tropical
helmets have superseded the old straw
hats.
CASUAL BELLIGERENCY.
“Fighting is treated lightly by Papuan tribes,
which regard it much as we do a* football match.”
-—Jack Hides.
When jungle peace and amity are shattered.
And native spear cleaves open native bean,
It doesn t follow that the fighting mattered:
The combatants, in fact, are void of spleen.
What though the loser's nut is blood-bespat-
tered.
The mind that it conceals remains serene;
The winner, too, is casual with it all.
Much as our chaps who dive upon the ball.
Although he may have ample provocation
His enemy to slather hip and thigh.
Our island savage shows no agitation.
No senseless posturing of “do or die.”
He sees the newsreels, and, in emulation,
To spiflicate the other he will try:
He stoushes when he hears the battle-drums,
Even as Rugby Leaguers do in scrums.
Limes change, and we change with the times
—some mellow
Philosopher said something of the sort;
And so no longer with a warlike bellow
Our colored ward seeks vengeance for a
tort.
He’s learned from us, his guardians, that a
fellow
Can take his fighting merely as a sport—
Or can, at any rate, combine the two,
As Collingwood and “Sowth” contrive to do.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Ihave smoked 44,000 during the past j
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble”
Try Craven “A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
M
J1944M/A
fd
f
POLITICAL POINTS
On the day J. G. Latham mounted the
High Court Bench as C.J., newspapers
were setting up an extract from a Uni-
versity Press booklet in which he gave a
jurist’s interpretation of Article XVI.
It has now been realised that the appli-
cation of economic sanctions is not a
substitute for war. It is really an act of
war.
The Bulletin has been saying this all
along, and for saying it has been taken
to task by old friends.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has
joined the pack of prelates who justify
making war to prevent war. Of course,
they firmly believe that their preventive
war would be just a little one. Lansbury,
lor his part, sacrificed his prospects of
becoming Prime Minister rather than
associate himself with “sanctions.”
Seemingly, the only genuine pacifists are
Lansbury and the Quakers.
Canada is to have another Liberal
Government, the Conservatives having
been routed. Bennett, their Prime
Minister, said that if they got back they
would “negotiate a reciprocal trade treaty
with the U.S.A.” This couldn’t have
been the sole cause of the disaster ; but
somehow defeat is invariably the portion
of the Canadian Government, Conserva-
tive or Liberal, which proposes tariff
reciprocity with the Republic.
A financial boycott is being imposed
on Italy and an economic boycott will
come next. Austria-Hungary, Albania
and Venezuela refuse to have any part
in either, and Argentina wants to
contract out of the economic boycott
on the ground that it has a million Italian
settlers. Australia hasn’t that many;
nevertheless, it has far more than any
other Dominion, and if it is bound by
measures from which Argentina is free
the latter country will assuredly get part
of our trade with Italy. But it is expected
that Mr. Lyons will be too meek to
mention it.
Butler produced a surplus last year—
almost the first in S.A. since he first fell
out of his cradle —and taxes are down at
last. A Sydney paper attributes the
surplus to the legalising of bookmakers,
taxes on whom yielded £130,000; but
surplus and tax-cuts are due far more to
the bounty of the Commonwealth, which
in special grants alone came to light
with £1,400,000 last year and is adding
£lOO,OOO in 1935-36. This consideration
won’t prevent taxpayers thankfully
accepting the reductions, for which they
have had to wait weary years.
The hopes of Mr. Have-a-heart, of
Alberta, that his Social Credit party
would be strong enough to hold the
balance between Conservatives and
Liberals have been dashed by the
immensity of the Liberal victory. The
Have-a-hearts expected to win 30 seats
(there are 245) and won 13. The inter-
position of the Dean of Canterbury and
Mr. Have-a-heart’s projected tax on beer
could scarcely have helped. Neverthe-
less, if two of the Sydney morning
papers are to be believed, the party accom-
plished a miracle—“swept the rural
ridings in four urban constituencies.”
Two knights, a clergyman (deceased)
and a former Minister of the Crown
figure on the Commonwealth Taxa-
tion Department’s latest “Questionable
Returns” list. Members of this exclusive
club admit that their memories deceived
them, and pay extra (generally double tax)
rather than be dragged into court. One
of the knights was charged £B6 on £1127
of “omitted” income, and as the omission
extended over six years the offence was
mild. The other was stung for £7451 on
£133,440, and the ex-Minister for £387 on
£2204. The Minister Ministered and the
£133,440 knight was knighted during the
period of their forgetfulness.
“Sanctions,” Senator Pearce said last
week, “will certainly result in financial
loss to Australia, as trade with Italy is
greatly in our favor.” Read in cold print
this seems a blithe way of dismissing a
very serious matter, but the chances are
that the old Minister is not really keen
on “sanctions.” The same is evidently
true of his former chief. It has been
remarked that, although nearly every
member of the House contributed to the
long Italo-Abyssinian debates, and the
House was keen to hear him, Billy didn’t
chughes to speak.
Accumulated Vic. railway deficits
are to be written off by the Dunstans. A
mere book-keeping entry, it will effect no
material savings anywhere. But it will
enable the department to claim profits, as
is done in Queensland, and admit of
Commissioner Clapp throwing out his
chest at formal luncheons.
As strange as the alliances that this
Italian business has brought about —
Britains and Russians, U.A.Ps. and Com-
munists—are the political partnerships it
“Shure, an' it luk an earthquake to do ut!"
has sundered. Last week Neville
Chamberlain denounced the attitude of
Amery ; and for the first time since 1916
Archbishop Mannix and Mr. de Valera
are on different sides. “Dev.” is for
“sanctions” ; the doctor’s agin ’em.
The Perth Government is sending
assisted immigrants back at a great rate.
There have been protests in and out of
Parliament, and bitter complaints in
Britain, but Premier Collier is impeni-
tent: he says it would be cruel to keep
hopeless cases here when there is nothing
for them; and there are hundreds of
hopeless cases. Collier blames the
English doctors who passed the unhappy
people—most of them became group
settlers—but politicians, Labor and
Nationalist, can’t escape their share of
the responsibility. They were not critical
about the quality of the newcomers when
they were holding out both hands for
“migration loans” and spending them
with wild prodigality.
Californian grapes, according to
Maltby, M.L.A., are selling within a mile
of Vic. Parliament. California’s seasons
and ours are, of course, reversed ; but
Maltby’s point was that six months hence
Victorian grapes will not be on sale in
California. They might be if the Yanks
amended their regulations governing the
exclusion of insects pests, but this form
of prohibition they refuse to repeal.
The Stevens Government is sending
Manning, its Attorney-General, to Eng-
land to represent it when James v. the
Commonwealth Government is argued
before the Privy Council. The point at
issue is whether that Government is
bound by the inter-State Freetrade sec-
tion (92) of the Constitution. The High
Court has twice ruled that it is not; if
the Privy Council decides that it is, a
lot of fancy marketing schemes will go
west. In any case, costs will be on a
magnificent scale.
The Westralian Labor congress has
“decided to ask the Government to con-
sider the practicability of establishing a
State bank to conduct all kinds of bank-
ing business.” Such a State bank is not
expressly prohibited by the Common-
wealth Constitution, but the difficulty
will be to get over Section 115:
A State shall not coin money, nor
make anything but gold and silver coin a
legal tender in payment of debts.
T. R. Bavin’s promotion to the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench leaves a safe
Assembly seat (Gordon) vacant. The
Langsters won't contest it, and if it were
left to the electors to pick the U.A.P. man
they prefer there would probably be a
dozen candidates and a most interesting
contest. But, of course, there is to be a
selection ballot. It will be rough on
local tradesmen and unemployed ; an
“open go” would mean the circulation of
a good deal of money that they could
do with.
Even before it knew of the cursed
Commonwealth’s special grant of
£BOO,OOO, an increase of £200,000, West-
ralian Labor had arranged to give every
“Crown employee” a rise. On the
estimates, the total for members (80) was
raised from £41,045 to £46,060, and the
total for Ministers from £6991 to £7365.
There are eight salaried Ministers, though
five capable men could do the work ; for
months past six men have been doing it.
Menzies has enhanced his reputation
at Canberra, but the Left, while admit-
ting his cleverness, is still far from liking
him. He is apt to rip out such “nahsty”
things. “The Statute of Westminster
gives us the right to secede ; the Privy
Council says so” —thus Eddie Ward.
Menzies replied that he hoped he would
be “excused from the necessity for carry-
ing on a recondite legal argument with
the member for East Sydney.” “You’re
now giving us a display of your superior-
ity complex,” interposed Beasley. “That
is only to be expected in the circum-
stances,” retorted Menzies. Chaps like
Ward don’t mind what Parkhill bellows
at them, even when he loses his temper ;
but they object to “nahsty” blokes.
The Trade in four States is more or
less cautiously campaigning against six-
o’clock closing, imposed on it during the
war and retained since because Austra-
lians so placidly accept accomplished
facts, even when they are disagreeable.
A South Aus. M.L.C. is forcing the issue
by proposing a Licensing Bill amendment
extending the closing hour to 9 p.m. He
will probably get it through his own
House.
Had Rae or Dunn been re-elected
last year, there would be five “parties”
in the Senate of 36 members. As it is,
there are four; U.A.P., Fed. Lab. (three,
Leader, Deputy-leader and Whip), Fed.
U.C.P. and Westralian C.P. Hardy
(N.S.W.) came in one morning and an-
nounced that he had been elected to lead
the Cockies. Johnston (W.A.) objected,
and has since resigned from the Fed.
U.C.P. Nominally, the Senate is “the
non-party House.”
It was suggested at Canberra last
week that Parliament should adjourn “for
Cup Week,” On some nark objecting,
it was pointed out that the Loan Coun-
cil would be sitting in Melbourne dur-
ing Cup Week and that Parliament, being
a hopelessly inferior institution, could
not possibly meet while the Loan Coun-
cil was silting, loans being ever so much
more important than legislation. Then
somebody mentioned that Australia was
at least technically at war with a coun-
try which has a first-class navy and air
force. Of course, nobody anticipates
an immediate attack from either, but it
will be awkward some day if an enemy
decides to time an invasion for Cup
Week.
Defending the Petroleum Bill in Vic.
Assembly, Minister Hogan pointed out
that provision was made for the reduc-
tion of royalties on low outputs to van-
ishing point. In California, he said,
royalties as high as 25 per cent, are col-
lected. Hogan maintained that the neces-
sity of declaring that petroleum should
be the property of the Crown was an
essential for defence; only last year
Britain —in which there is not yet a sug-
gestion of oil discoveries—had decided
that it was wise to make such a pro-
vision.
McCutcheon, of the Melbourne
Building Trades Congress, put up a
nasty one to State politicians when he
asked why they were instituting a hous-
ing scheme “to absorb the unem-
ployed.” Two or three years ago, when
only 10 p.c. of building operatives were
working, nothing was suggested. To-day
75 p.c. are employed, and the percentage
is rising weekly.
The politician who puts party before
all else is familiar enough, but he gener-
ally hides his attitude under some camou-
flage. Morrison, the British Labor mem-
ber, has no qualms about the matter. A
general election having been decided
upon, much to his disgust, Morrison
barks that “the electorate has a sense of
fairplay and may punish the tacticians
by putting party before national in-
terests.” The same gentleman is in favor
of giving away the Crown colonies.
A trammie’s pertinent objection:
As from September 15, the hours of the
N.S.W. Government tramways traffic staff
were reduced to 88- per fortnight. The first
fortnight ! worked five hours overtime; the
second, four hours; and my experience is
general. The men don’t want overtime. There
are 4384 drivers and conductors; taking the
average figure at two hours per fortnight,
there would be work for an extra 100 men if
overtime were abolished. As the staff gets time
and a quarter for the first two hours and time
and a half thereafter, it cannot be called good
business for the State.


' With two other
JOURNALISTS I TRIED
TO INTERVIEW THE
Italian minister. "
! ekdeavoured to
INTERVIEW MaILE SILASSIE
THIS MORNING,BUT was treated
WITH SCANT COURTESY."
* I
I NEVT TRIED TO TAK-E A PHOTOQR/kPH
op Primcess Wwzero
(StABV.THE i.M^TOK
'' But here ao.ain mv epforts
WBRB UW6UCCESSFUL.''
So I got the WEKT Best thihg, -
THE Ei*.c;i_E ''
// «
But unlike. nete.
s»i e>ter.s>
, SHE WAS MO DESIRE FOR
HER PICTURE TO KPPEM? d<
IN THE PRESS"' j , (o^tT
\ PRIVILEGED
to see the Emperor,
shoot s\y. e>ui_v_«»
VJITH HIS C&NNOW ,
//
\*4 ftEtOQ,WITIOU Of= THE
\Cr\ RUNNING, MR
THE I EXPECT #*.
Handsome bowus »=
I (qET BiKCK INTACT
ADDIS ABABA DAY BY DAY.


The Mutual Life and Citizens'
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary, Managing Director.
~JUat -to- 7nu4es-
- b.v.d :33b;
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
& *2*.
B *
;
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
fO«
r^A.ot
IRfcO*
B^'
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC,. NEW YORK.
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The death of Alfred Parker, the little
Lord Mayor, is a big loss to Sydney. He
was a lawyer of independent mind, and
a politician afraid of no machine. Syd-
ney-born and -educated, he was senior
partner in a firm in which many years
ago he joined a son of T. A. Dibbs. His
election as Lord Mayor followed a period
of sordid manoeuvring, and his reign did
much to restore the respect of citizens
for their civic government. Though he
had a financial brain, his great delights
were his pictures and his books, and he
had a dry wit and a ready sense of
humor. He was knighted just before the
onset of the illness which struck him
down.
J. Ewing, managing director of Pitt,
Son and Badgery, has been in wool most
of his life. Coming to his present firm
A wool-firm director.
from the P.F.A. in 1922, he became a
director three years later, and was joint
mng. dir. with the late Bob Pitt until
the latter’s death early this month. In
his spare time he plays golf at Ken-
sington.
W. R. Parker, who has celebrated his
87th birthday, looks back on a lot of
history. He became a banker —with the
Commercial of Sydney—in 1866, but
retired in 1893, and in later years he has
been a mandarin expert—the Glen
Retreat and Parker’s Special are known
wherever the fruit is grown. He was a
foundation member of the Queensland
Cricket Association.
lan Clunies-Ross, appointed head of
the Mac Master Animal Health Labora-
tory four years ago, at 31, and in charge
of the N. S. Wales veterinary operations
of the C.5.1.R., is to go to Manchuria
and Japan to study sheep nutrition,
hybridisation and disease. He is a
Bathurst boy, and belongs to a family
which has left its mark in many out-of-
the-way spots of the earth —the “King of
Cocos,” for example. He knows his
Asia already—he was a post-graduate
student of the Tokio Institute of Tropi-
cal Diseases for two years, and was the
first student to take the D.V.Sc. degree
at Sydney University.
“Jo”: A Eureka Stockade baby has
passed away, aged 81 —Dame Margaret
Eureka, wife of Wallace Fairweather.
She was born while the fighting was n
progress, daughter of Andy Mclntyre,
a digger. In Scotland she was pro-
minent in public affairs around her
Faside home near Mearns, Renfrew.
She was superintendent of the Red Cross
Society and on the directorate of Glas-
gow Royal Children’s Hospital. Much
of her time was devoted to welfare of
ex-servicemen.
If P. H. Goldfinch gets in for Gordon
(N.S.W.), the State Parliament will
acquire one of the best brains in Aus-
tralia. Though actually born in Eng-
land, his family roots are deep in Aus-
tralasian history, and he made his way
to the general managership of the Com-
monwealth’s greatest commercial con-
cern, the C.S.R., at 44. He became a
K.B.E. last year, while on a world tour.
“II Vecchio” on a bank director;
In appointing L. F. Giblin to the Com-
monwealth Bank Board, the Government has
certainly made a move towards brighter board
meetings. The Professor, son of a Tasmanian
Premier and Judge, successively applied his
Cambridge and London University education
to mining in Alaska, planting in the Solomons
and fruitgrowing in his native State, in the
Assembly of which he served three years
before he enlisted in the A.I.F. When he
came back in 1919 (wounded, a major and
with the D.S.O. and M.C.), he was appointed
Government Statistician, and for the last five
years he has filled the chair of Economics at
Melbourne University. The two things which
he holds in greatest disrespect are sartorial
excellence and theorism. If he feels like it,
as he sometimes does, he will appear at meet-
ings in an old khaki shirt, a bright green tie
and boots which look as if they had been
built to kick the humbug out of politics.
At a science congress he seemed to sleep
during a long, dreary session, while fellow-
academicians settled the depression in a torrent
of indexes, till one of them challenged him:
“I am sure Professor Giblin will agree with
me all the way.” “I don’t,” said L.F. —his
Christian names are Lyndhurst Falkiner —“you
have forgotten a small factor.” “And what’s
that?” “Only human nature, only human
nature!” murmured Giblin, and apparently
went to sleep again. But when he sets out
to prepare an intricate argument on economic
cause and effect —as, for instance, his tracing
for the Wheat Commission of the repercus-
sions from an increase in the price of flour
and bread —nobody in Australia can do it
better.
There is no more vigorous believer in
the future of the Northern Territory than
C. W. D. Conacher,
who, born in Vic-
toria of Scottish-
Cornish blood,
took his six feet
and a bit of frame
to George Wat-
son’s College,
Edinburgh, and the
West of Scotland
Agricultural Col-
lege before he
joined Vesteys,
whose representa-
tive he was in
China and Mada-
gascar. He. came
to Australia as
their attorney in
1916. A quiet,
definite person
who says only
what is needful to
say, and that con-
cisely, he has con-
sistently preached
for 20 years, in the
face of severe set-
backs, that Australia will become the
centre of the world’s chilled-meat supply.
In private life, he is a student of inter-
national affairs and a lover of the arts.
Dead in Auckland, Capt. Charles Ross
Cholmondeley Smith, a Maori war
A prophet of the North.
veteran, born in Sydney 101 years ago.
The captain, in the heyday of his youth,
was the finest exponent of swordplay in
M.L. He was a son of an old-time
London physician, Dr. Charles Edward
Smith, who settled in N.S.W. over a
century ago. Capt. Smith crossed to
M.L. in 1854.
The broad, square, rolling frame of
Arthur Henderson, just dead, suggested
a Scottish shipmaster and was chock-full
of ideals about the brotherhood of man.
His equally large, square head was full
of ability. His smile was his pidce de
resistance, and all his familiars called him
“Uncle.” Henderson began in a Glas-
gow backwater as an errand boy.
He learnt his politics as a shipyard iron-
moulder, and his speaking as a Wesleyan
preacher. At 40 he was in Parliament.
He served in the Cabinet with other
“National” Labor men during the war,
and became Home and Foreign Secre-
taries in Ramsay MacDonald’s suc-
cessive Ministries. He was the father
of naval disarmament and the 1930
Naval Pact and chairman of the
World Disarmament Conference. His
work earned him the Carnegie Peace
Prize. He visited Australia a few years
ago with a Parliamentary delegation, and
left a trail of legends behind him. The
joke which gave him almost most satis-
faction in life was that, although he fin-
ished his education at nine years old, he
sat as a Royal Commissioner on Oxford
and Cambridge.
“El V.”: Big, jovial Will Lister, who
looked like a Hanoverian burgher, died
quietly at Sandgate (Q.) on October 15. He
was born in Brisbane, and all his working
life was a merry journalist with a soft
heart and a gift for dialect humor. As
“Heinrich Schleinhoof,” he was known to
Queensland many years ago as the author
of Me and Schmertzer, and he contri-
buted for many years to The Bulletin
and to Brisbane papers, in addition to
managing and editing the “Moreton
Mail.” He wrote easy flowing verse, and
had one of the kindest hearts south of
the Equator. Many an absent Digger’s
family had to thank him for unobtrusive
kindnesses which he could little afford
during the war.
Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R., who
threatens to be the stormy petrel of
Federal Labor, was educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar School. He is possibly
the only Laborite politician who has
ever emerged from
the academy which
S. M. Bruce cap-
tained. He traces
his descent to the
Gordon family
which produced
Lord George Gor-
don, Byron, Adam
Lindsay Gordon
and Hugh Mc-
Crae Hugh is a
cousin.
“R ie t River”:
Reference to
French as a young
general of 48 who
made a good name
in South Africa
(B. 16/10/’35) re-
minds me that his
chief of staff was
a still younger
man, later to make
a great name in
India and to win
praise from Hal-
dane in the organ-
isation of the latter’s Territorials —
Douglas Haig. Not many recall Haig’s
share in the Territorial job, a share car-
ried out in the face of much ridicule
from public, politicians and regular
soldiers alike.
The whole life of C. B. Hearn, subject
of Counihan’s sketch, has been given
to insurance. At 42 last year, he
had run the whole gamut of pro-
motion in the Colonial Mutual Life,
had inspected all its branches, here
C. B. HEARN, of the Colonial Mutual
Life.
and overseas, and had settled into
the g.m.-ship. He is a big man physi-
cally, used to pull a hefty oar in an
eight, and still rows and plays tennis
when time allows.
“X.T.”: It is likely that “Steele Rudd”
will have a memorial in Brisbane. Rod
Quinn, E. J. Brady, Fred Broomfield
and others already have suggested it to
the Queensland Premier, who is one of
Steele’s admirers. And the Lord Mayor
has hinted that action will be taken; the
Brisbane City Council stood in silence
to pass a vote of sympathy with the rela-
tives.
W. R. Carpenter, who has given his
£20,000 Sydney home to the Jubilee
Maternity Fund, is an example of what
can be done by grit. Son of a U.S.A.
citizen and born at Singapore, he got all
his education at a Sydney State school.
It was his dream from boyhood to found
a great South Sea trading firm, and he
made his first attempt with J. B.
Carpenter and Sons, which he started
at Thursday Island in 1899. He left there
to manage a Fiji business, after having
been Mayor of T.I. for two years. About
the time war broke out he founded
W. R. Carpenter and Co., and has never
looked back. His co.’s line of steamers
runs round the world, and the Exchanges
value his business at the best part of a
million pounds.
The just-dead 7th Duke of Buccleuch,
whose daughter is to marry the Duke of
Gloucester, was descended from the
second Charles’s handsome son, the Duke
of Monmouth, who lost his head after
Sedgemoor. Latterly, the Buccleuchs lived
quiet lives nursing their wealth and the
traditions of the Montagu-Scott-Douglas
families, but when they were plain Scotts
they were a packet of trouble for any-
body who opposed them. The adventures
of one of them provided the main theme
of the “Lay of the Last Minstrel.” And
it was another who, asked by Queen
Elizabeth how he dared carry on border
wars against her forces, replied: “What
is there a man dare not do?” The red-
headed lady remarked that with a thou-
sand men like him she could “shake the
firmest throne in Europe.”


I ■ H 9
i
m
smmrn
.. y&y- ££&s£
*
i
B**3
i
anam
With Barnet Glass ,
efficiency is high and
running COStS at bedrock
There are thousands more miles of wear in the massive, deep-cut
Caterpillar Traction Tread that grips and' ho/ds under ail
conditions. The Barnet Glass formula of rubber impregnating
the long staple cotton cords gives a perfectly balanced casing,
minimising generation of heat.
Sturdy buttressed walls protect both tread and casing. Double
breaker strips absorb road shocks and double bead wires ensure
rim stability.
These are the elements of a real Truck Tyre . . . Barnet Glass
Truck and Bus Balloons give greater mileage, longer trouble-free
service and enable Truck and Bus owners to reduce overheads
and run to schedule.
Fit a full set for all-round economy and service
in the long run .
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
MT.7I-FP-33.
HEAT RESISTING - ARMOURED WALLS - CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS TUBES


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- ami 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
r ch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), 'Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directobs —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq. t C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 06
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, th.a
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless
Nominal
Writ- To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. ten Off. sen es, serves.
£ £ i! ai £
1924.. 14,505 Nil 7352 39,358
Establishment expenses capitalised, £102,009 141,367
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. 141,229
Profit. Deficit.
1925.. 14,005 Nil 8969 5036 136,193
Establishment expenses capitalised, £54,592 190,785
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,421 12,196 178,589
Forfeited shares, £193 .. .. 178,396
Nominal
Reserves
1927.. 89,086 Nil 13,880 25,150 21,294
Deficit.
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,961 23,297 3464 25,037
Written off establishment exes., £717 24,320
1929. .108,326 8 p.c. = 59,543 28,731 20,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll .. 4,257
Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,190 6 „ ~ 44,657 14,539 35,022
1932.. 77,159 74 „ „ 55,821 21,338 56,360
1933.. 82,172 8 „, ~ 59,543 22,629 78,989
1934, .137,934 10 „ ~ 74,428 63,500 142,495
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 137,495
1935. .119,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 —( „ n „ Qfi lf!7 SOl
Staff fund, £15,000 . . .. J 30 ' 396 167 ’ 891
The agreements with the Commonwealth
and Maoriland Governments, whereby
the co. received 3s. of each listener’s
license fee for making its patents free to
the public, ran out during the June half
of 1934, and were not renewed. Still, the
loss has done the co. no serious damage.
It was partly offset by formation of a
licensing co., embracing A.W.A. and
other patentees, to sell sub-licenses to
manufacturers, and partly by general ex-
pansion of the business, especially on the
manufacturing side. Earnings of the
Beam service, which now carries over 75
p.c. of the total telegraphic business be-
tween Australia and Britain, have been
maintained, and a photo.-telegram ser-
vice was successfully inaugurated about
a year ago. Revenue from the coastal
wireless service improved; many ships
were fitted with the co.’s new automatic
distress transmitter, and, following legis-
lation, the co. is now equipping more than
50 vessels not previously fitted with wire-
less. More use was made of the overseas
telephone, and charges to the public were
reduced ; also, the agreement with the Fiji
Government for management of the
colony’s wireless services has been re-
newed.
On the manufacturing side results
eclipsed all previous figures. A record
number of Radiolas was sold, and several
broadcasting stations were erected, in-
cluding two in Maoriland. The valve-mak-
ing subsidiary “continues to progress.”
Gross earnings from all sources
(£545,431) were £16,970 lighter; but an
unspecified amount previously set aside
for contingencies was included in the
1934 figure. Including something for de-
preciation, exes. (£425,607) were only
£ll4O heavier. -The net result (down
£18,110) was 16.1 p.c. on capital as
against 18.5, 11, 10.3, 7.9, 11.3,
10.6 and 6.4 p.c. back To 1928. That
leaves out of the reckoning a net
addition of £39,042 (£5891 more than in
the previous year) to the reserve against
patents, etc., making it £327,301. In-
tangibles total £142,067, of which £49,067
represents capitalised expenditure in con-
nection with the Beam section. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and £15,000 was sent
to the staff fund.
Balance-sheet movements suggest a
lively increase in manufacture:
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £744,283 £744,283 £744,283 £744,283
Sundry creditors 113,652 259,143 284,916 23'0,838
Freeholds .. 267,370 297,677 299,628 307,178
Plant, etc. . . 295,011 395,253 393,027 478,245
Beam service 160,412 159,647 169,547 170,260
Book debts .. 125,268 139,636 181,210 223,228
Cash, etc. .. 114,565 282,080 368,198 258,052
To reduce the debt by £54,078, add
£85,218 to the book value of plant, £7550
to freeholds, and carry an extra £42,018
of book debts, cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £110,146. The contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£250,442)
was only £14,050, despite the outlay on
fixed assets.
As for the current term, a Maoriland
contract for erection of a 60-k.w. station,
claimed to be larger than any now in
existence south of the Equator, is in
hand, and so is an order for manufac-
ture of 14,500 telephones for the Aus-
tralian Post Office.
The Post Office, which doesn’t like
A.W.A., has induced the Government,
which holds a controlling interest in the
business, to take legal action calling on
the co. to show cause why it should con-
tinue to be granted licenses to operate
overseas services. The case is now in
the course of preparation.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 48s. as against 41s. a year ago.
The return at the higher figure is 4.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Including the
reserve against patents, etc., the cover
is 30s. lOd. in net tangibles.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. Ord. To Nominal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 61,655 9.881 37,500 14,274 291,700
1926.. 62,935 11,981 37,500 13,454 305,154
Unexplained addition to reserves,
£20,000 325,154
124 p.c.
1927.. 79,684 12,000 46,875 20,809 345,963
10 p.c.
1928.. 85,002 12,000 37,500 35,502 381,465
1929.. 50,804 12,000 37,500 1,304 373,394
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£73,589 299,805
Loss. 24 p.c.
1930.. 18,504 12,000 9.375 259,926
Debt recoveries and capital profits,
£8172 268,098
1931.. 32,930 Nil Nil 285.168
1932.. 4,759 Nil Nil 230,409
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£3177 227,232
Profit.
1933.. 3.580 Nil Nil 3,580 230,812
1934.. 9,378 Nil Nil 9,378 240,190
Reserves capitalised, £20,060 .. 220,190
Profit on sale of shares, £5549.. 225,739
Unexplained addition, £6652 .. 232,391
(0 p.c.)
1935.. 20,248 4,500* Nil 15,748 248,139
*For half-year to 31/12/’34 on 150,000 prefs.
It used to be a money-spinner, but the
talkies, broadcasting, economic develop-
ments and taxation changed the outlook
for the legitimate stage more completely
than for most other businesses. For the
three years to the close of accounts in
1932, trading losses aggregating £56,193
were recorded, and two years later pay-
ments to the prefs. (public interest is con-
fined to this class of scrip ; the ords. are
held mainly by those in the business) had
dropped £40,575 behind.
Still, the prefs. are now back in the
picture, and look like remaining there.
The recovery in net earnings is due partly
to improvement in conditions generally
and partly to lightening of the co.’s
burden through the sale and leasing of
surplus properties and rearrangement of
the debt structure. Arrears of pref. divs.
to June 30, 1934, were cancelled, and
the rate was reduced from 8 p.c. (6.2 p.c.
after allowing for the statutory cut) to
6 p.c. cumulative, with the right to
advance with the ords. up to 8 p.c., after
the latter have had 6 p.c. They also
received 20,000 f.-p. pref. shares, reserves
being capitalised for the purpose, raising
pref. capital to £170,000, thus making
6 p.c. worth 6.8 p.c. on old holdings.
Also the directors reduced aggregate pay-
ments under their service agreements
from £13,390 p.a. to £9360 p.a. from
Dec. 1, 1932, to July 3, 1937. But when
the prefs, have had 6 p.c. and the ords.
3 p.c. (together £21,450) any remaining
profit is to be used to reduce the balance
of £4030 p.a. due under the agreements
just referred to.
The spring in last year’s gross earnings
was £5076: —
Gross 1927. 1932. 1934. 1935.
earnings ..£206,195 £34,931 £57,351 £62,427
Exes. .. 126,511 38,790 47,97,3 48,179
Net profit .. £79,684 £4,759* £9,378 £20,248
*Loss.
Exes, were £5794 lower, leaving the net
result £10,870 better at £20,248, or
enough to pay a full year’s pref. div.
(£10,200) and show 2.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing a capital profit of £5549 on the
sale of shares in the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, and a net addition of £6652
to reserves from provision previously
made to meet arrears under the directors’
agreements.
Prospects of further improvement in
earnings depend mainly upon satisfac-
tory theatrical attractions. The market,
doubtful whether the pref. participating
rights are likely to amount to much, for
a while, at any rate, prices the scrip at
19s. 6<2. The book value of the net
asset cover is £4 13s. 3d., which includes
an unspecified amount of intangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it;
1929, 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £525,000 £525,000 £525,000 £645,000
Liabilities .. 629,119 604,234 835,499 801,822
Freehold, lease-
hold, wardrobe,
goodwill, etc. 733,039 663,144 1,061,409 1,058,068
Shares other cos. 385,456 279,966 162,652 158,136
Book debts .. 406,833 409,535 368,538 366,924
Cash, etc. .. 11,561 6,997 7,333 11,832
How much of the debt (down £33,677)
is fixed and how much is floating is not
visible from the published accounts.
When the books closed, the lot exceeded
more or less liquids, including shares in
other cos. (mostly Hoyts), by £264,930,
the improvement being £32,046 over the
twelvemonth.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
££~ £ £ £
1925.. 97,989 9000 8,573 10 p.c. = 49,876 226,050
1926. .104,789 9000 9,911 10 „ ~ 50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ „ 59,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~ 42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 ~ „ 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 ~ ~ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 „ „ 48.000 399,428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 454,868
first prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. i, 1931,
till July 31, 1932,
This big department store has put up an
astonishing performance. Slump and its
concomitants brought a precipitous fall
of nearly 58 p.c. in net earnings over the
two years to the close of accounts in
1931, when the ord. div. (it used to be
a steady 10 p.c.) dropped to 4 p.c. and
reserves were tapped for £1777 to pay it.
The marked and persistent recovery in
earnings since is due partly to improve-
ment in conditions generally, and largely
to the management’s energy and to its
foresight in dealing with the new trading
problems. With one eye upon family
budgets and the other upon fashion,
which means shrewd buying, it pursued a
vigorous sales offensive ; and all the co.’s
profits are not derived from imported
finery either—a substantial portion comes
from its local factory operations.
Despite a certain amount of disloca-
tion due to rebuilding of the old George-
street premises, where the co. now trades
mainly in men’s and boys’ wear, there
was a further “substantial increase” in
turnover during the last term, when addi-
tions, giving 21,300 square feet more
floor space, were made to the factory.
After writing off £2105 more than was
spent on fixed assets (at balancing date
the new George-street and factory build-
ings had cost £46,831) and paying £72,129
in rates and taxes (shareholders received
£87,750), net earnings were £12,614
better, making the improvement £71,804
over the last four years. After paying the
prefs. their full contract rates, enough re-
mained to show 15.6 p.c. on the £600,000
of ord. capital as against 13.5, 10.9, 8.7,
3.7, 7.6 and 15.1 p.c. back to 1929. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and £34,027 was
visibly put in the cupboard, making the
lay-by £454,868.
Over the last four years the market,
which now sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky, has lengthened its bid for the 6 p.c.
first prefs. from 15s. to 295., for the 71
p.c. seconds from 16s. 6d. to 31s. 6d.,
and for the ords. from 12s. to 425. At
the higher figures the returns at last year’s
rates of distribution are 4.1 p.c. firsts,
4.7 p.c. seconds and 4.7 p.c. ords. The
net tangible backing is £9 13s. lid. firsts,
£5 4s. 4d. seconds and 355. 2d. ords.
The year’s profitable trading is again
reflected in further improvement in the
financial position:
1981. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Deposits .. . . 14,604 50,903 43,016
Overdraft .. . . 16,661 3,685
Sundry creditors.. 159,217 185,592 188,061
Mortgages, etc. .. 452,475 331,375 321,333
Total liabilities. £626,296 £584,531 £556,095
Fixed assets .. 1,296,530 1,223,076 1,220,971
Stocks .. .. 459,305 452,834 462,763
Book debts . . 221,643 352,880 349,113
Investments, cash, etc. 37,404 20,457 21,991
Deposits were reduced by £7887, while
£12,976 was clipped off the overdraft
and £10,042 off the mortgage, etc., which
has been reduced by £131,142 since 1931.
The growth of £9929 in stocks (they are
reported to be conservatively valued) was
on account of an increase in the new
season’s goods, then on the water. The
year’s growth in the more or less liquid
surplus (£277,772) was £36,132, notwith-
standing the outlay on premises.
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd.
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. (8 p.c.) Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 12,705 3402 7J p.c. = 9193 110 129,317
Added to reserves, £11,964 .. 141,281
1929.. 13,289 4000 7$ p.c. = 9193 96 141,377
Reduction in reserves, £6500 .. 134,877
1930.. 13,574 4305 7} p.c. = 9193 76 126,953
Reduction in reserves, £2694 . . 124,259
1931.. 3,912 4478 1} p.c. = 1532 122,161
Loss.
1932.. 146 Nil Nil 122,015
Profit.
1933.. 1,104 Nil Nil 123,119
1934.. 4,912 Nil Nil 128,031
1935.. 5,741 4500* Nil f 117979
Reserves capitalised, £12,000* J
*Subject to approval of shareholders.
William Dymock opened his first book-
shop in Sydney in 1883. In 1900 he
died, and the business became a family
partnership. It was registered as a limited
co. in 1913, to allow outside capital to
come in ; later still, in 1920, the present
co. was formed and pref. scrip was
issued. Meanwhile, the co. began to
invest in city properties —the Sydney
Arcade and the old Royal Hotel premises
in George-street were bought. Then,
encouraged by the rise in property values
and rents, the co. put up a new 11-
storeyed building, “The Block,” on its
George-street freehold. This was ex-
pected to add £12,000 p.a. to net profits,
which had averaged £12,367 for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1926.
But the job was scarcely out of the con-
tractor’s hands (in 1929) when the boom
burst, and the properties, to finance
which the co. went substantially into debt,
were a drag on the rest of the business
until the close of accounts in 1934.
Thus, although the co. has pulled
through with only one small loss, it has
been able to show but meagre profits.
For the last term properties showed a
profit of £l2Bl, the first thing of its kind.
The net return from the bookselling sec-
tion of the business was £3504, and other
investments turned in £956. The profit
from all sources was up only £B29 —the
bookstalls on city railway stations, taken
over on a three-year contract from Jan.
11 last, had not contributed to the pool
when the books closed.
At June 30, 1934, there was £15,788
coming to the prefs. in accrued divs.
The co. is not in a position to pay this
in cash. It is proposed that 12,000 f.-p.
prefs. (four for 25) be allotted in settle-
ment, reserves being drawn upon for the
purpose. That would raise pref. capital to
£87,000, on which 6 p.c. would call for
£5220 (£521 less than was netted last
year), equal to approximately 7 p.c. on
£75,000. It is also proposed that the div.
be reduced from 8 p.c. (6.2 p.c. after
allowing for the statutory cut) to 6 p.c.,
with the right to advance with the ords.
to 8 p.c. after the latter have had 6 p.c.
Prospects of the prefs. remaining in the
picture are encouraging.
At 245. the return would be 5 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis. It is difficult to say
when the participating rights are likely
to be worth anything. The net tangible
cover (book value) is £3 15s. Id. The
ords. are not listed.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1928. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Pref. capital. . £50,000 £75,000 £75,000 £75,000
Ord. capital. . 122,568 122,568 122,568 122,568
Mortgages . . 101,598 262,814 258,956 257,952
Other liabilities 40,782 53,800 52,104 56,066
Sydney Arcade
freehold .. 123,183 123,929 124,002 124,197
George-street
freehold . . 251,027 444,184 439,839 438,646
Leasehold . . 7,236
Plant and fittings 2,136 2,527 1,848 5,768
Shares, etc . . 28,460 28,455 29,887 30,365
Stocks . . 22,696 34,084 36,273 39,972
Debtors . . 9,693 9,747 11,860 12,053
Cash, etc. .. 3,128 1,417 951 2,357
At June 30, mortgages were equal to
45.8 p.c. of the book value of the prop-
erty, against which there were reserves
totalling £117,272, after allowing for the
proposed capitalisation. Including shares,
etc., which appear at more than their
market value, more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the floating debt by £28,681, up
£lBl4.
Waldas Shoes, Ltd.
Norai-
Dividends. nal
, A To Re- Re -
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 13,092 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 9,174 3918 3,923
1934.. 17,549 8 „ 15 „ ~ 13,211 4338 8,261
Share premiums, £13,875 .. .. 22,136
Unexplained reduction, £2319 .. 19,817
1935.. 16,174 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 15,265 909 20,726
Despite fierce competition, due to the
crowded state of the trade, this youngster
continues to win very attractive results.
It took over the proprietary and other
interests of F. J. Cook in May, 1930, for
£ 106,000-odd (in scrip), of which £51,677
was for goodwill, and continues to trade
as manufacturer and distributor, partly
on the chain system—a year ago there
were two factories, making women’s
shoes only and supplying 23 of the co.’s
own shops (11 in Melbourne, seven in
Sydney and five in Adelaide) as well as
retailers in other States and in Maori-
land. The policy has been to rent shops,
for the reason that, if custom has to
be followed, there is less difficulty in
moving.
During the last term, 18,500 new £1
ords. were issued at a premium of 15s.
each (= £13,875). The money was used
to pay off the overdraft (down £31,226),
(Continued on page 18.)


/«/*
I
behind this name lies a tiaare
■
secret
-
m
r
obs
reason
Unique
for" Three Threes"
J
V"'
nn
v*.
• • • • » •
H - -
gv . ■ ><-r
. £mmrnl
C INCH the day long ago when it was
~ discovered by the famous English
Tobacco House of Ardath, the secret of
the 333 s blend has been used only
for 333 s Cigarettes.
THf| exclusive formula, which produces
a superb blending of the finest of pure
Virginian tobaccos, has grown more
and more celebrated with the years.
Every day thousands of additional
smokers are realising that only in
333 s Cigarettes can this delightful
blend be obtained. It is this that
accounts for the fact that wherever
you go you find smart smokers insisting
on getting State Express 333 s
Cigarettes.
i i
cr
<s>
a
N/
I
Or
O
TATE
100% PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
Express
18 - ]/-
27 -1/6
CIGARETTES
9 - 6
$
a?
-> T Mt fTpßls^
m
a?
<2 ,
UMi
S'P’
Also Flat 50 s,
Flat 100 s and
Round Airtight
50s.
CORK-TIPPED OR PLAIN


Said a Jubilee-gazer called Stamp,
“ I perched for .two days on that lamp*
If Fd only had near me
Schweppes Tonic to cheer me,
I should not have contracted the cramp.”
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
How Much Time
can yon give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed ns
vour Executor, Trustee or Agent, will, attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Lnidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .1. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)*
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
NOBEL
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
aaflON
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Eider, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.; W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Ciias. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
secured on the co.’s only freehold, in
Melbourne, now unencumbered;
1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £106,380 £106,742 £125,332
Overdraft ... .. 39,817 34,136 2,910
Sundry creditors . . 12,942 8,710 8,479
Freehold.. .. ( ... ftQO , ) 62,937 62,200
Leasehold, etc... ) 1-1,099 8,840
Plant 14,513 14,750 11,171
Stocks 18,703 21,525 28,930
Book debts . . . . 13,183 12,531 13,136
Cash, etc 1,735 2,040 1,979
’lncludes goodwill, £51,677 at June 30, 1933.
The reduction of £49,352 in leaseholds,
etc., was due to separation of goodwill
(£51,677) from the item. Including stock
(up £7405, and the most vulnerable point
in the business), more or less liquids ex-
ceeded liabilities by £32,656 when the
books closed, an improvement of £39,406
over the twelvemonth.
Gross earnings (£101,952) slipped
£9222, of which £7847 was offset by
savings in exes. (£85,778), leaving the
net result £1375 lighter at £16,174. It
was enough to pay the prefs. (there are
40.000 of them) 8 p.c., and then show
16.1 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 21.4 p.c. and 14.9 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was kept
at 15 p.c., but that rate is by no means
secure.
The net tangible cover is £3 13s. prefs.
and 245. lOd. ords. The scrip is not yet
listed.
Steel Merger
All the ord. shares in Australian Iron
and Steel are to be exchanged for “a
parcel” of scrip in Broken Hill Prop.
Australia’s two big iron-and-steel under-
takings will thus be brought under one
control, the declared aim being to “pre-
vent unnecessary duplication of plant
and effort, and to enable the industry to
continue on non-wasteful lines both in
the amount of capital used and in costs
of production.”
The basis on which the scrip is to be
exchanged has not yet been announced.
The capital and reserves of the two cos.
at their last balancing dates were as
follows;
Paid Capital. Reserves.
B.H.P £2,987,708 £3,929,978
A f and S 1 Pref, £1,000,000 ) qqq
A. 1. and 8. .. | ord _ £2,473,605) 39d ’ 999
The total number of ords. issued by A, I.
and S. is 2,700,007; there was still
£226,500 at call on 950,000 of them. For
the 12 months to the end of Nov. the co.
netted £120,774 (up £50,415), or enough
to pay a year’s pref. div. (£58,125 =
5.8 p.c. after allowing for the statutory
cut) and show 2.5 p.c. on paid-up ord.
capital. But money was wanted in the
business, so only £37,500, covering the
half year to May 1, 1931, was handed to
the prefs., leaving £207,000-odd (4s. Id.
per share) of divs. still to come before
their slate is cleaned. The ords., of which
Howard Smith is reported to hold about
700,000 (the Hoskinses and English steel
interests own most of the balance), have
not yet received a div. —5 p.c. (£91,675)
was declared but not paid in 1929.
Since the close of its accounts at May
31, B.H.P. has announced the issue of
1,493,854 new £1 shares at a premium
of 10s. each. When fully paid, that will
lift its capital to £4,480,962, and bring
in £746,927 of share premiums. The
new funds are wanted for manufacture
of tinplate (over £1,000,000 worth is
imported annually) and for additions to
plant in other directions. For the year to
May 31 net earnings (£670,442, up
£242,854) were equal to 22.4 p.c. on
capital as it then stood. The div, was
kept at 10 p.c.; the interim for the cur-
rent term is at the rate of 12£ p.c. p.a.
On £4,480,962 p.c. would call for
£110,322 less than was netted last term.
The deal with A. I. and S. should
hasten payment of that co.’s arrears of
pref, divs., and Howard Smith should
benefit, too. The market doesn’t expect
the exchange of scrip to interfere with
B.H.P.’s I2j p.c. distribution, and there-
fore priced B.H.P.’s pound shares at 645.
last week-end, equal to 51s. lOd.
after exercising the rights and allow-
ing for the interim div. The return
at 51s. lOd, is 4.8 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div.
basis. The rights recently sold at 19s.
Including brokerage, the total cost would
thus be 495. 4d., and the return a shade
■over 5 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
At 255. 9d. A. I. and S. prefs. return
4.5 p.c. plus arrears.
Cuthbert’s Misima Goldmine has been
formed to take over what looks like
a promising property, New Misima,
on Misima Island. Nominal capital is
£200,000 in 10s. shares, of which 260,000
were offered and snapped before the man
in the street could get a look in. The
purchase consideration is £95,000 —
£75,000 cash and 40,000 paids. There
are a 10-head battery, cyanide and other
plant capable of treating 15,000 tons
annually on the spot. The intention is
to step up production to 40,000 tons p.a.,
equal to 3400 tons a month, and further
develop the deposit. On a paid capital
of £14,000 the vendor co. has paid
regular divs. beginning at 6d. a month,
when gold fetched £4 4s. an ounce, and
rising to 2s. a month ( = 120 p.c. p.a.).
For the year to June 30 last, it treated
14,762 tons for a gross return of £37,521,
or 50s. lOd. a ton; all-in costs were
20s. 6d., leaving 30s. 4d, net profit. The
quantity of ore then measured up was
81,340 tons. Cliff Rutledge, who recently
examined the mine, figures that there is
300,000 tons available in the southern
section above water level, and a lot of
payable stuff is known to exist in the
northern section, too. In addition, there
are the possibilities of the ore-body
below the oxidised zone.
* * * *
Waihi, which has been extracting gold
from the Thames district (M.L.) and pay-
ing divs. since the eighties of last cen-
tury, has split itself in twain. The old
mine in Maoriland has been handed over
to a subsidiary, Martha Gold, and the
co.’s two-thirds interest in Puket Tin
Dredging (formed in 1930 in conjunc-
tion with Tronoh Mines to work 658
acres of tin-bearing ground on Puket
Island, Siam —capital, £300,000) and its
other interests have passed to another
offshoot. Waihi Investments and Ex-
ploration, Ltd. For each ss. share held,
those on the parent’s register are to re-
ceive 3s. cash plus one fully paid in the
Martha Co. and one fully paid in the
Investment Co.
* * * *
Upper Sepik Gold Syndicate has
struck some rich wash on its property
near Wau, New Guinea. About
3,000,000 c.y. of 10s, dirt, 1,000,000 c.y.
of Bs. stuff and 2,000,000 c.y. averaging
ss. are reported. Details concerning the
nature of the ground and method of test-
ing are not stated. Some 4,000,000 c.y.,
parts of which have yielded good dish
prospects, remain to be valued.
♦ * * *
First accounts of Commonwealth
Mining and Finance (it holds all the
shares in Sand Queen and Bayleys and
half of those in Yellowdine, as well as
options on other Westralian goldmining
ventures and one in the N.T.) show
issued capital at £1,016,624 in ss.
shares. At May 31 cash figured at
£328,748 (stg.); investments in sub-
sidiaries, £242,500; advances to sub-
sidiaries, £108,288 ; interest in Yellowdine
£84,252 ; other investments, £296,352, or
£57,543 less than market value. It is
hoped to commence crushing at Yellow-
dine next April on the basis of 5000
tons a month; ore treatment at Sand
Queen is expected to follow. Herbert
T. Eke has joined the board and L. C.
Cutbill has retired from it.
Statutory report of Edjudina Consoli-
dated, successfully floated in London by
Herman Mandelstam and others a few
months ago, states that of £179,530 re-
ceived from sale of shares £129,825 is in
the bank. The balance, or all but a
trifle of it, was absorbed in underwriting
and brokerage (£12,056), preliminary ex-
penses (£17,400) and loans (£20,000). In
the co.’s big auriferous area, continuous
parallel ore channels containing shoots
200 ft., 400 ft., 600 ft., 800 ft. and 1000 ft.
in length, worth about 15dwt. per ton
over a sloping width of 3ft., are re-
ported.
♦ * * *
The new treatment and cyanide plant
on the Norseman Co.’s mine (W.A.)
swallowed £4OOO worth of gold last
month ; the recovery was worth £10,020.
Investigation is being made. The quan-
tity of crudes treated was 4735 short
tons, with a head value of 9dwt. Mill
tailings assayed 4dwt. Cyanidation of
3366 tons of tailings resulted in the
recovery of 2260 z. fine gold. Working
expenses are not stated.
* * * *
Wiluna Ajax has applied to the West-
ralian Government for assistance on a
pound-for-pound basis. The co. started
about a year ago with a little capital and
options over S. Aus. oil leases and a
gold-prospecting area at Wiluna. It is
now trying to sell a wad of forfeited
shares at 3d. each. Prospects of getting
Government assistance hang by a slender
thread.
* * * *
“D.T.”: Talk about British capital
and local labor combining to mine iron
ore dt Yampi Sound and sell it to the
Japs is again being heard in the West.
This time, it is alleged, a contract has
been signed, £250,000 is being found
to open up the deposits, and the
kick-off from the “largest deposit east
of Suez” will be 250,000 tons a year.
Thus far, the Government has said
nothing about having sighted a contract
to sell Yampi ore to Japan ; the conces-
sion-holders (J. D. Connolly and
others) have, however, applied through
their local solicitor for further exemption
from labor conditions.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
♦ * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 1935 General
Catalogue.—Advt.


%
V
%
\\
v\ V. \ ■
U
w
-
K
v\\
2/
"s
s»\V <«
m-'-.v;
>, m
,i; mm j
i
w
i
i»
wmoi
yly/i#
%
WM
<s >
;UWj
*:nv-v, w-
%j-x- ;
?s
,
-Tv
&
<?
W(l^wC\
y //
\
KILCHURN CASTLE
and BEN CRUACHAN (ARGYLLSHIRE)
“Wave may burst, and wind may howl—•
Lightnings flash and thunders growl—
I shall never fall, but when
The sea has covered Cruachan Ben!”
In response to many requests. Dewar's have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
in a size suitable for framing, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar & Sons Ltd.. Melbourne
or Sydney. Please mention this paper, date,
and title of illustration required.
r \
Cruachan!” The wild rallying cry of the
Campbells carried a challenge and a menace to all who had incurred the
wrath of the great MacCaillean Mhor. Death was in the air when the
Clan Campbell came out of Argyllshire. The foray over, and back in their
mountain fastness .. . “It’s a far cry to Loch Awe!” .. . thus they
flung the defiant taunt to threats of vengeance from their enemies.
And it’s “a far cry” from the days when old Kilchurn rang with the
cries of the Clansmen, to the more peaceful spirit that comes out of
the Highlands today . . . the spirit of good fellowship . . . Dewar’s.
D E WAR’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
TH E SPIR I T OF OLD SCOTLAND


ABORIGINALITIES
* :|: *
“Old-timer”; Visitors were taking tea
on the homestead lawn when the Sabbath
peace was shattered by a wild yell from
the bathroom —an isolated out-
house 30ft. from the house. As
the hands ran up from the huts
and the visitors turned, they were
startled to see the boss burst from
the ablution chamber in his birth-
day suit, race across the lawn, dis-
appear, reappear with a d.-b. gun
and charge back into the bath-
house, which immediately shook
to the roar of both barrels. His
missus, thinking of bushmen who
stripped before suiciding, fainted. In
tense silence, somebody gingerly opened
the door. There, staring stupidly at two
large holes and a mangled perch in the
bath, was the boss. He draped a towel
about himself and fumed, “What silly
blankard put this blasted fish in me bath
water? When I hopped in I thought it
was a flamin’ snake!” It developed-that
the jackeroo had caught the fish in the
creek and put it in the bath with some
hazy notion of keeping it fresh for
breakfast. He had fish for breakfast all
right, but at a railway refreshment-room
far away.
t ■!' V
“Ned Kelly”: Anyone ever see a
woman with a bee in her bonnet —actu-
ally? When bees take to a member of
the restless sex they usually attack her
hair. I remember seeing a very courage-
ous bushwoman rendered hysterical by
the presence of a couple of irate workers
in her crowning glory. A young sister
to whom I introduced a swarm of the
native bees mentioned in the Red Page
(B. 25/9/’35) was delighted with the
little silky fellows, and allowed them to
crawl on her legs and arms. It was when
they took possession of her long and
abundant hair that the circus really
began.
« * * *
“Bill Boredrain”; Most plagues of
vermin travel in well-defined directions.
Hereabouts (n.-w. Q.) the grasshopper in-
vasions (we’ve had several), whether real
’hoppers or flying varieties, move from
east to west. The big rat plague of ’32
came up from the sou’-west, and of course
was followed by wild cats. The rains that
ended a long dry spell early in 1930
were followed by a swarm of large green
caterpillars, all making north: inciden-
tally, they turned the water in the drains
about the boreheads putrid. The cattle
tick, though it can hardly be termed a
plague, if placed on the ground facing in
any direction will turn and head south.
* * / * *
“Salis”: Rocksalt is an irresistible lure
(or birds on the Barkly Tablelands —
that saltless country where cattle chew
sweat-stained harness for its salinity.
Little zebra-finches, known locally as
waxbills, are the greatest thieves. And
a million of them, dabbing for the lick
of their lives with their tiny tongues,
wouldn’t get away with a pound avoir-
dupois in ten years. They’re cute at
finding the salt, gathering at the horse-
licks as soon as the nags leave it. And
just as cute is the cat which lakes a
tumble to the fact that finches like salt.
I’ve seen wild cats, those not so wild,
and the pampered Tom from the head
station take up positions near the salt
when they felt they’d like a bit of poultry
for a change. They’d crouch ready for
a spring, and they’d wait for their prey
to come to them.
* * * *
“Marra”: Any Aboliar ever heard of
porpoises attacking a small boat? A
young woman was fishing for black
bream on the Hawkesbury at night when
seven or eight huge porpoises surrounded
her frail craft and began buffeting it. A
bream she had hooked was grabbed, and
away went 40 yards of line. The girl
flashed an electric torch about the water,
but this didn’t scare off the playful at-
tackers. Using one of the paddles as
a club, she landed home two or three
resounding whacks; only then did the
snorting ones make off.
>J: jjc i\i »Jt
“Magdala”: The special correspon-
dents maintained at Addis Ababa seem
as dithery as everyone else connected
with the tangle. In a dispatch describing
the escape of the Emperor’s pet lions one
scribe tells how the beasts killed two
£lOOO Australian horses reserved for the
Emperor’s own use. Another writer on
the same payroll says the steeds were
Arabs, which is a lot more likely. In
these hard times the whereabouts of a
£lOOO Australian horse can be traced in
a few minutes, and there is no record
of any of this standard having gone to
Ab.
•!* * * *
“Camelier”: That’s a fine idea of
“X.T.” (B. 25/9/’35) —that camels ought
to be kept because they can go without
“I should like you to give me a reference saying that my services are
being dispensed with, not on account of inefficiency, but in
pursuance of a policy of retrenchment ?”
“Eh, wot’s that? Cripes, you better stay on the job."
food and without water and carry ump-
teen pounds of stuff over umpteen miles
of desert. How does he suppose the
poor darned camel likes it? Why not
bring our horses up in the same way?
They say Abyssinian soldiers can go for
days without a square meal. Why not
bring Aussie troops up in the same way?
Why not encourage “X.T.” to get into
training as a sort of human camel and
see how he’d like it?
* * * *
“Billy See”: Torres Strait natives
aren’t the only persons who imprison
themselves in their building operations
(B. 25/9/’35). One time on the Golden
Mile (W.A.) I found myself well and
truly riveted up inside a big condenser-
boiler, the designer of which had for-
gotten the necessary manhole. It look
hours to chop an exit by the slow process
of hammer and chisel. It was a German
tank, too, sent abroad in sections.
* * H= *
“Pisces”: Do fish sleep? Turtles cer-
tainly do! Out from Fremantle shark-
fishermen came across a huge leathery
turtle asleep on the surface. So wrapped
in slumber was the shellback that a noose
was slipped round its snout and another
round a flipper, and it was on its way
to port before it properly woke up. It
then put up a terrific fight, but was too
late. Overall it measured Bft. 6in., while
the shell taped sft. 6in. in length by 3ft.
6in. across ; estimated weight, half a ton.
It sold at £2 per hundredweight, being
bought by a showman.
* $
“N.K.”: “L.G.P.” (B. 2/10/’35) is
right in what he says about curlews feed-
ing on glowworms. This accounts for
the melancholy in their cry. I once
caught several and experimented. One
warbled like a canary when fed on
chillies, and the second crooned like Bing
Crosby after a diet of small, brown
lizards. We expected great things of the
one that dined off a foot of carpet-snake.
Unfortunately, he died before giving
voice to his feelings.
* * * *
“Oloc”: Acting on “Canopus’s” sug-
gestion (B. 11/9/’35), I submit the fol-
lowing words as commonly mispro-
nounced by bushmen: Mattick for
mattock (all “ocks” become “icks”),
aighs for eggs, drouth or drooth for
drought, forks for fox, crick for creek,
laigh for leg, sterrup for stirrup and
i —s for cattle and horses when they
break into the vegetable patch.
* * * *
“Mayle”: The noisy minah is a bird
of destruction, but at times it seems
capable of extending sympathy to
fowls which it habitually tortures. On
one occasion about thirty minahs were
observed clustered about a hen maggie
in the National Park, Belair (S.A.).
Marauding schoolboys had stolen its
young, and each time it cried its misery
the minahs also raised their unmelodious
voices in mourning. Next day they were
back at their old game of teasing the
larger bird.
* :|i * *
“V.A.M.”: Any one of us is sensitive
about a physical deformity. But old
“Nosey Parker,” the machinery in-
spector, was utterly tactless. This and
his notoriously bad bushmanship were
his only claims to distinction. One day
he tackled old Joe. “Ha! my man.
You’ve lost a finger!” “No, I never
lost no finger,” said Joe. “Born that
way perhaps?” “No.” “But, hang it all,
man, your right index finger is missing.
You must have lost it in some accident.”
Joe looked him straight in the eye. “No
accident at all, mister. I just wore me
finger away drawin’ mud maps for silly,
inquisitive coots wot can’t never find
their way about.”
* * * *
“Spinifex”: The fish that lives and
hops on land when occasion arises (B.
25/9/’35) I have seen by the thou-
sand. North Westralians call him
“goby”—the real name is Periophthal-
mos. The front fins are modified for
clutching roots, etc., and for springing,
while a special gill-like structure in the
tail allows respiration in the ordinary
fish way so long as the tail is kept damp
- —hence the habit of goby in preferring
to lie half-in and half-out of water, as
“Kriss” has noted. He is no relation
to the true lung-fish.
-i- h' V
“Vamac”: Quite agree with “J.F.L.”
(B. 11/9/’35) about the carrying qualities
of the native companion’s voice. As a
kid I delved deeply into this matter of
vocal equipment, dissecting the body of a
pet brolga that had to be killed. I made
three very interesting discoveriesr—the
first, that the brolga’s neck isn’t long
enough to meet requirements, so the
windpipe makes a series of maze-likc
curves almost throughout the length
and depth of his breastbone. The
second was that, by removing this
breathing tube (vocal slits kept care-
fully intact), and blowing hard through
it, loud and most ungodly noises might
be produced. After a bit of secret
practice I shoved one end of the fowl s
windpipe through the keyhole while dad
was at breakfast, and blew my hardest.
It was here that I made my third dis-
covery—the sense of humor dormant in
all Northern Irishmen can be very, very
dormant at times.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: Dad’s a pretty poor shot,
and when one day he came upon the
boys amusing themselves potting cigar-
ette-tins thrown into the air he was jok-
ingly asked to join in. Dad had a go,
then another, but not even one stray
shot found its mark. “You want a more
interesting target,” sniggered one youth.
“I’ll throw up my hat. If you miss that,
some of the boys can throw up the hay-
stack!” He winked at the others. Dad
again levelled the gun; the hat went
well into the air. This time Dad didn’t
fire right away; he waited until the
hat seemed about to drop on the barrel
of the gun, then pressed the trigger. He
blew the crown right out.
* * * *
“8.F.”: A doctor recently prescribed
an orange, to be taken first thing in the
morning, for a reviver from a bender.
Old bush remedies included Worcester-
shire sauce, mixed with metho., hot
water and a pinch of cooking soda ;
onion soup, mares’ milk, safecure and
painkiller. But the daddy of them all I
consider is Condy’s fluid, just strong
enough to stain a finger when immersed.
* * * *
“Blue Flier”: As a pest to campers-
out flies have but one serious rival —the
little black meat-beetle. Tie meat or
bread in a bag ever so carefully and
you’ll still find him inside when it is
opened, which is unpleasant when you
know that some half-dry carcass was
his last place of abode. But maybe he is
of some use. I saw a swarm, about 25
yards long, of blowfly maggots (the
black, hairy kind) leaving a half-dry Too
carcass. Meat-beetles were entering.
Although several spars occurred between
the parties, neither of them seemed to be
badly damaged ; but when they broke
the clinch those maggots certainly
stepped on the gas.
♦ * * *
“Walkabout”: They were talking
about Kidman’s wealth (B. 16/10/’35).
“Do you reckon the old bloke’s a million-
aire?” was asked of “Bronco,” an em-
ployee. “Dunno if he’s &ot a million quid
in hard cash,” drawled “Bronco”; “a
million’s a lot of money. But he’s got a
million pack-saddles, an’ they ought ter
be worth a quid each, without countin’
in the side straps.”
* * * *
“Tripod”: Most people know that
water can be boiled in a paper bag, but
here’s how a scrub-cutter on the Conda-
mine (Q.) does his cooking. While hav-
ing breakfast he prepares a stew for
dinner—cuts up the meat, carrots, etc.,
and, putting the pieces in a billycan,
covers them with hot water. The billy
is then put in a butter-box, made air-
tight by jambing a cushion over the
top; next box and all are covered
with piles of grass. By the time he returns
for dinner the stew has been cooked by
the steam, and is still hot.
* * * *
“M.F.E.”; “Ned Kelly” (B. 18/9/’35)
says Westralians call the giant Centralian
lizard a “bungah.” His ear has deceived
him. Throughout the Murchison, from
Yalgoo to the rabbit-proof fence at
Wiluna, I have always heard it spoken
of as “bungarrer.”
si: * * *
“Aasvogel”: Australians returning
from England complain of the fearful
ignorance of the Commonwealth and of
the people and things in it displayed by-
Britons. I doubt whether they are
worse in this respect than the city-bred
Australian. Dragged up in Melbourne
or Sydney, he has not the remotest notion
of conditions prevailing farther out than
Warburton or Gosford. Sydney dailies
published a yarn of a prospector in
Centralia who was being devoured by
“vultures” when rescuers came along.
Every school-kid should know from his
nature-study lessons that there are no
vultures in this country. The only
Australians likely to have troubled
the injured man were Kelly the Crow,
goannas and the brown carrion kites.
Even Sydney journalists know what a
crow is—it steals golf balls —but it is
possible that the kites filled the role of
vulture.
CRACK HARDY!
I like that simple slab of bushland speech,
That pungent phrase, abbreviating haply
Into the smallest compass words may reach
The heartening philosophy of Tapley.
Keep up your tail, my son, whate’er your
plight!
Think of the jolly miller by the far Dec
Who cared for none, and sang from morn to
night.
Crack hardy!
When on the ’fields you’re battling for a crust
And yet another claim turns out a duffer.
Sutler in tight-lipp’d silence, if you must,
And never wise the world to what you suffer.
Fortune may still be waiting on the mat,
Though, like so many ladies, shy and tardy.
The longest lane will turn, and, pending that,
Crack hardy!
“In man’s most dark extremity,” says Scott,
How oftentimes there “dawns from Heaven
succor.”
Some comfort in the notion, is there not?
Though rough the road and rougher still
the tucker.
And if a lizard you should have to grill,
Or dine on crow, or munch the abo.’s bardic,
Bethink yourself that what won’t fatten ’ll
till.
Crack hardy!
And when you’ve penned some lyric full of
grace
(Like this) or possibly a sonnet solemn,
Worthy, you fondly deem, to find a place
In this or some such scintillating column,
Don’t make another song about it if
It fails to win the editor’s regard—he
Is inaccessible to snort and sniff —
But, though you may suspect it bored him
stiff,
Crack hardy!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“0.P.”; He was the meanest man in
town, and when he got an order from
the city for a young butcher-bird he had
great difficulty in finding a youngster to
help him get one. At last young Jim
volunteered, and a tree was located. Bill
held out his hand for the two nestlings,
but his offsider preferred to hang on to
the pair until he reached the ground.
Then, making sure that the monetary
value was safe in his pocket, he parted
with one bird and left by short cut.
When Bill reached home he found his
wife feeding a young butcher-bird. She
had bought it for the city order—-from
Jim.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”; A plentiful supply
of fish-steak and gallons of oil gladdened
the heart of Henare when a school of
blackfish—some of them 16ft. long—
was left stranded on the beach at
Opoutama, near Nuhaka, recently.
Marine monsters frequently come ashore
at this spot; Maoris declare it is owing to
an inherited instinct causing them to seek
the sea passage said to have once
separated the Mahia Peninsula from the
mainland.
**‘ # *
“Mynza”: It was after a football
match that I met him, and his team had
triumphed. He was explaining how Mc-
Tossem had tackled that big forward
when he broke off to converse briefly
with a passing lady. When again he
fell in step (or as near as he could make
it) he explained with voluble detail that
when he had last met her she was a
bride and now she was a grandmother.
In the short interval before we made the
bar he repeated the information thrice.
Impatiently I said, “Yes, that’s right-
now she’s a grandmother.” “Too right
she is,” he began ; “but howinell did you
know?”
* * * *
“X.T.4”: I disagree with “N.Y.Y.”
(B. 25/9/’35) that Waukaba is the most
famous hole in the Georgina (W.Q.).
Give me Mungalo every time. This
fellow, sometimes known as the Caran-
dotta Woolshed hole, has all sorts of
weird tales spread around it—men
drowning, other odd bits and one thing
and another—apart from the classic
race meetings which used to be held
there in the long ago. It, too, has a sub-
terranean spring in its bottom. Various
estimates have been made of the number
of cattle which have been bogged and
perished in it. Some say 30,000 ; others,
more conservative, cross off a final 0. No
one knowing the hole would dare to
cut it down further than that. When
Lamond was managing Walgra he had
a fence erected across the northern end
of the hole to guard the bad parts. The
first flood silt left only the top of the
posts showing. Another fence was put
up on top of the buried one. Next flood
left both fences hanging in the air, with
room for a thousand bullocks to walk
beneath the bottom one, and the
treacherous north end was open and
inviting once again.
“Bert the Carpenter”: At a South Oss.
farm clearing sale, among the stuff was
an ancient mirror with most of the sil-
vering gone, a rickety chair, a whitewash-
brush minus most of the hair and a
scythe-blade whose useful life as a grass-
mower was over. The auctioneer, a
master of his craft, looked at the items,
“Go on. Gully dear.
Your missus is calling.”
“Let her call! Don't think I Want to go on that stupid migratory cruise
with HER, do you?”
stuck the old brush in a tin-can, propped
the mirror on a box with the scythe-blade
before it, put the chair into position, then
stood back and shouted, “Here you are,
now —the greatest bargain of the sale. A
fully-equipped barber’s shop! Three
chairs —no waiting! How much for the
barber’s shop? The goodwill alone is
worth a tenner!” Someone bid five bob
—and someone else raised it to 7s. 6d.
The hammer fell. Sold in the ordinary
way that lot might have fetched a bob.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: If I’m any judge, every
bagman in northern N.S.W. is making for
the Manning River by this, lured by a
full-page advertisement in the “Manning
River Times of
9 /10/’35 to the
effect that counter
lunches will be on
in two pubs at
Taree every day
henceforth.
♦ *
“Porosus”: No
doubt about the
crocodile being
lively when he likes
(B. 9/10/’35). Any-
one who has seen
a big fellow ske-
daddle down a
shingle bank to
reach the water
when he has been
caught napping by
a whaleboat drift-
ing down with the
current will agree
What has always
interested me about
the brutes is how
their comparatively
frail-looking little
legs can support
the heavy bodies.
A crocodile of any
size sports an out-
rageously obese
middle - piece in
proportion to the
rest of him, and
one would think
he would emulate
the Biblical ser-
pent and go on his
belly all the days
of his life. No-
thing of the sort.
When sprinting, his
corporation js well
clear of the ground
and the tip of
his tail is kept
perkily elevated. In short, a croc, in
these circumstances has always reminded
me irresistibly of a fat goanna going for
a gum-tree.
* * * *
“Desmond D.”: “Rex’s” bailiff must
have lost a lot of hats stalling off dogs’
“After seein' that pitcher, I don'
think I'll marry y'. I'd sooner
'ave y' for me co-respondent."
attacks (B. 25/9/’35), A Perth vet. tells
me the best thing to do is to sit down,
Saw him attend to a savage brute of an
Airedale that was nearly pulling a picket
fence down in its efforts to get at him.
When he sat down on the ground the
dog began to wag its tail, allowing the
vet to minister to it.
“Murray”: An extraordinary death
was that of John Maguire, of Albury.
He had been catching tiger-snakes for
the Hall Institute, and had collected a
bagful. Returning to Albury in a car, he
took the bag on arrival there and threw
it over his shoulder. Several of the
savage “tigers” bit him on the back
through the bag, and though he was
rushed to the hospital and everything
done it was impossible to save him.
* * * *
“Yoho”: A most intriguing experience
was enjoyed by the crew of H.M.S.
Wellington while cruising in the Fijis.
Immense flocks of birds flew out to wel-
come the craft and landed in hundreds
on the deck. They
were very tame,
and the cable
chronicler says
that “the female
bird” only one
among so many,
and no chaperon,
mind you—allowed
herself to be
stroked. Evidently
petting parties are
not unknown
among the fauna
of tiie western
Pacific. The cable
says the birds were
bo’sun birds, the
snow - white fowl
with two long
scarlet tail feathers
that may often be
seen hovering high
in the air in tropic
seas. In many of
the islands the
natives make pets
of these, and they
hang about the vil-
lages as confidently
as sparrows do in
Sydney suburbia.
Still, this en masse
call on a ship
needs explanation,
being an unheard-
of performance for
such fowls.
“Kuaka”: Like
the Australian ibis
(B. 9/10/’35), the
seagull in Maori-
land has a habit
of following the
plough in large
numbers. His tit-
bit is the earth-
worm, and the farmer regards the marine
scavenger as a mixed blessing. Admit-
tedly he eats a few grubs, but worms dis-
appear in thousands, and the drainage of
damp soils suffers. In some places sea-
gull-scaring has become a remunerative
job for boys.
“Swansea”: “A.HJ.” (B. 2/10/’35) is
wrong himself when he says there’s no
lottery about a bee-tree. There are
other causes for activity around a hive
than the storing of honey alone: young
bees, for instance, flying in and out at
the entrance and about the vicinity of
the tree, memorising their landmarks.
Or, on a very hot day, water-carriers at
work. My experience of bees is that they
will store honey whenever there is a
good flow available, irrespective of
whether they have a supply or not; even
going to the length of drawing cones on
the outside of the tree.
* * * *
“R.J.0.”: Everyone knows that a jelly-
fish is almost entirely composed of water,
but do many know that a medusa slapped
on to a sheet of blotting-paper will
dwindle away to next to nothing as the
watery portion is absorbed?
* * * *
“Rana”: The frog menace sits heavily
on Melbourne Zoo. That admirable
institution some time ago opened a snake
park on the lines of those at Rio and Port
Elizabeth. All sorts of wrigglers live to-
gether in the open, and are provided with
swimming-pools and houses, not to men-
tion sheets of bark. Also many hundreds
of frogs were turned in, with the idea of
feeding the serpents. They do to some
extent, but have staggered the keepers
by getting away themselves with num-
bers of small snakes. When Spring comes
laughing hundreds of young snakes are
launched on the world, and these are
meal-tickets for Froggie. Recently a
2in. frog tackled a young tiger-snake, Sin.
long. Getting the wriggler’s head in his
mouth, he started to make a meal of
it. Twenty-four hours later the frog had
got all his dinner down save about 2in.
Then someone lifted the gourmand up
to be photographed, and he disgorged
the whole of his half-digested plunder.
Kookas. in the daytime and Nankeen
herons at night also take a fair toll of
young snakes.
* ♦ * *
“Oruncha”: Shifting sands and dust-
storms in Centralia (B. 11/9/’35) are
more likely to be the after-effects of a
drought than the forerunners. A
moment’s consideration will suggest
why.
* * * *
“Oloc”; Ducks drowned (B. 11/9/’35)?
I’ve seen fish drowned! I set my net
in the Colo River (N.S.W.) twice weekly,
and can assure you that the perch and
mullet I catch drown themselves by
struggling when they get meshed.
“Blue Flier”: “Flat out like a lizard
drinking” is a well-worn bush phrase ;
but I have camped by a waterhole for
months on end, have seen big gos. with
only their heads above water in the bore-
drains, and have never yet seen a lizard
of any kind partake of liquid refresh-
ment. Since the drought here (n.-w. Q.),
there are more lizards about than ever
before; yet I am certain that the ones
far out on the downs can taste water
only after rain—that is, if they drink
at all.
* ♦ *
“Groper”; While these piscatorial
experts argue over jewfish, dewfish and
jewelfish, how many of them have ever
seen a real old-man snapper with a nose
like that of a seasoned toper and an
almost human expression of counten-
ance?
♦ * ♦ *
“Horse-tailer”: Not only livestock
are likely to swim freshly-risen creeks
to drink at their usual troughs (B.
25/9/’35). On Toorak station, Nelia
(N.Q.), 10 years ago, an immigrant cow-
boy wandered away from Yorkshire
Downs homestead, next door. When
the searchers found him next morning he
rushed their waterbag. “But you’ve
crossed dozens of bore-drains,” they told
him. “Ah know,” said Choom ; “but
Ah had nothin’ to drink out of.”
* ♦ * *
“Double Disc”: The sea mullet (B.
2/10/’35) has gained the reputation of
being excessively oily, but its actual fat
content is only about the same (3 p.c.)
as the esteemed black-bream. Garfish
and whiting run to about p.c. of fat;
eels, with 10 p.c., and salmon, with 12 p.c.,
are the oiliest of our food fishes. The
young sea-mullet is often confused with
the sand-mullef, but can be easily dis-
tinguished from the latter by a transparent,
thick and fleshy lid which surrounds the
eye and almost completely covers it. This
lid is absent in all other mullets. An-
other way of definitely identifying these
fish is by the colors of their fins. In the
sea-mullet the dorsal and pectoral
fins are dark bluey-grey, and the caudal
and anal fins have a distinct yellowish-
green tinge; in the sand-mullet all fins
are tinged with gold on their outer edges.
BACK TO THE BLACKS.
Oh, I’ve heard him in cities, I’ve heard him in
Bourke:
It’s hard to escape him wherever you work.
Evdn out in the mallee, ’mid blowflies and
dust,
You will hear his voice raised in a Dirge of
Disgust
As he pulls up his horses or leans on his axe:
“Ar, they oughter give Aussie right back to the
blacks.
“Back to the blacks, back to the blacks;
A fellow can't move but they slap on a tax.
Time they handed the Commonwealth
Back to the blacks.”
You’ll hear him where potholes are sunk in
the scrub,
And you can’t make a statement at all in a
pub,
If it’s only to mention the market has failed,
And a pound to a penny your ears are
assailed
With a horrible sound like a squawk from a
sax.—
“Ar, they oughter give Aussie right back to the
blacks.
“Back to the blacks, back to the blacks;
A man’s gotter work till he drops in his tracks.
Time they handed the Commonwealth
Back to the blacks.”
And I know that in heaven, if ever I’m there,
1 may still not escape from this son of despair;
While the godly are glad and the righteous
rejoice,
In a lull of the singing I’ll look for his voice
(For he may scrape an entry if Peter is lax)—
“Ar, (hey oughter give heaven right back to the
blacks.
“Back to the blacks, back to the blacks;
There’s too many deadheads with wings on
their backs.
Ar, they oughter give Paradise
Back to the blacks.”
N.S.W,
A. B. SHERLOCK.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
jO)
m
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and A gents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17*19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
“Scalded, Not Singed.”
“Pappamosca”: A report by R. H.
Heywood, the Commonwealth Veterinary
Officer, strongly supports The Bulletin
in its outlook on export quality
and suitability. Mr. Heywood has
a letter from the manager of the
Empire Bacon-curing Co., Newcastle-on-
Tyne, who says that when in Australia
he impressed on bacon-factory control-
lers the need to singe rather than scald
their pigs for export. (Our total export
this year will be about 75,000cwt.)
The manager points out that “in such
populous districts as Liverpool, Man-
chester and Bristol,” scalded pigs will not
be taken at any price. In other areas
there is a discount of from 2s. to 4s.
against scalded bacon. He adds that
“N.Z. baconer pigs are fetching 5|d. per
pound ex store, while Australian baconers
are about 5id.”
He thinks the facts speak for them-
selves, but found that managers in Aus-
tralia took the attitude that a singeing
plant—which costs about £300 c.i.f. Aus-
tralia —was not needed, as “scalded pigs
suited local trade, and for export pigs
they got as good a price as other Aus-
tralian shippers, and were, therefore,
quite satisfied.”
If |he continues] it is possible for you
to influence any of the producers in
Australia to go in for singeing, you will
be performing a service to the Australian
pig industry. Our factory alone could
comfortably take 50,000 Australian pigs,
and if these were singed we would be quite
prepared to pay the same price for them
as for New Zealand’s as far as quality
goes, the Australian are equal to the N.Z.
Mr. Heywood comments that he does
not wholly agree with the manager. He
says that Maoriland, by constant study,
investigation and trial, has “more or less
standardised a suitable pig,” so that
“quality is more uniformly good, and pro-
ducers are at an advantage in maintain-
ing a regular and established market.”
An ounce of standardisation and an
ear for British preferences would do
more for our primary products trade
than a mile of the political rhetoric which
Canberra calls “marketing propaganda.”
Dual-purpose Sheep.
“Lion”: For years we have been
breeding dual-purpose sheep—in River-
ina—having tried the Romney, Border
Leicester, Lincoln and English Leicester.
To us, wool is as important as sucker
lambs. All rams used were “studs,” and
the ewes strong-framed and good-
quality merinos, with wool ranging from
64’s to 74’s. The results were interesting.
The Romney gave us a good lamb
and a fairly good wool, but a great deal
of lambing trouble. The breed is a foot-
rot resister, and improved the resisting
power of its first-cross progeny. The
Border Leicester produced splendid
lambs but not such good wool, and
some trouble at lambing.
The Lincoln lasted only a season. But
the English Leicester has met all our
needs, and its first-cross wool from good
merino ewes fetches a big price.
The lambs are not as good as those
of the R. or B.L., but can be made
profitable. We have just sold a drop,
approximately 3 to 3£ months old, for
15s. in the paddock. That is worth 17s.
in Sydney to us.
Lambing with this cross is easy.
Grown sheef) are among some of the
best first crosses for wool. They sell
like hot cakes, and grow very large. We
have just shorn a big mob of 8-T ewes
of this cross, rearing lambs, and they
have averaged (weighed) 9Jlb. of wool.
Ewes from the mob took first and
second prizes against all-comers at our
show, which is a big one. The wethers
also took first—this for the second year
running.
Wool off the ewes —sold, 8-T, off
shears for 15s. —brought 21Jd. two years
ago. The AAAA wool off the merino
ewes sold for the same. It was good
length, bright, clean 70-74’s. Of course,
to do well, the country must suit these
sheep.
To breed suckers only go for the first-
cross ewe joined to the Downs breed.
But the sucker trade is precarious unless
there is an assured market. In the cross
I advocate, it doesn’t matter much
whether the market is ready or not, as
there is good money in them for wool,
meat or breeders’ ewes of the produce.
Sell the rams after the 6-T stage. Cull
any throwbacks to the longwool, if.
breeding for clip, and push the lambs
if you want suckers. Once they start to
go to wool, they won’t fatten, and it is
best to shear them.
N. S. Wales Sheep Trials.
“Ghanam”: Grahame Edgar and C.
Blumer, N.S.W. departmental research
vets., have reason to be proud of the
results of their pasture tests on Bald
Blair, Guyra (N.S.W.).
Three heavy basalt paddocks, each 40
acres, were used. The first was sown
with natural grasses of the district—kan-
garoo, wild sorghum, blue grass, dantho-
nias, and a little clover at the begin-
ning. A similar “run-off” paddock was
used with the improved paddock, which
had all but two acres sown with phal-
aris, rye grass and clover. It had been
unstocked during summer and cut for
hay in March, The run-off paddock was
rank and frostbitten, and apparently un-
palatable to the sheep, which spent most
of their time in the improved enclosure.
The average stocking of the unim-
proved paddock was 78 weaners over 30
weeks’ trial. The average of the other
two paddocks together was 328 weaners.
In May and June 400 were carried, and
in November and December 413. Car-
riage of these was almost entirely on the
improved 40 acres.
On the naturally-grassed area the aver-
age gain was 15.91 b., on the sown area
21.141 b. So that, while one 40-acre block
added 12401 b. weight, the other areas
produced another 69341 b. gain. Net
production in one case was 3lib. and in
the other 1321 b. per head.
Both flocks were shorn towards the
end of the trial. Results: On unim-
proved pasture, 7.141 b.; on the im-
proved, 7.771 b.
It was a lesson in what can be done
with a little added phosphorus, calcium
and proteins.
Country Selling.
“Spring”: “Upilio” may have done
better with country selling (B. 2/10/’35).
but his ideas don’t stand to reason. We
had six offers to buy our wool when we
had started shearing only one week. We
did not sell, but the visitors have made
a good many profits in the district.
One clip was sold locally for 13d, all
round. On to-day’s market it is worth
nearer 15d., and perhaps more.
Selling in the shed helps to disorganise
the auctions, and affects the general price
of wool. It makes for uncertain markets
and dislocates the proper channels of
our organised selling businesses.
Would-be buyers tell you that it costs
2d. per pound to send to and sell in
Sydney. Our selling costs, with every-
thing included, such as freight, carting,
etc., run into 11-10ths of a penny. We
ard 260 miles from Sydney and 10 from
the nearest railhead.
We also are told that we save a, huge
sum in interest by selling for cash on the
nail in the shed. Actually, it has been
worked out at approximately l-10th p.c.,
or 2s. saved for every £IOO clip value.
Country buyers do occasionally
a trifle better for top-fleece lines, but they
may take it out with interest on lower
lines.
On 11 years’ careful records we have
proved that the best value is to be ob-
tained by shearing the same time every
year, getting 25 p.c. of the clip into the
broker’s hands the same time and so en-
suring the same selling date approxi-
mately. It is impossible to miss all the
good markets, and equally impossible
to strike all the bad ones.
Had we accepted the shed price offered
last year, which certainly seemed good
at the time, we should have lost £361 14s.
“Granova”: “Upilio” will probably
regret his seemingly profitable sale of
wool in the shed.
Two years ago, when the market was
rising steadily, the country was over-
run with shed-buyers. I know of one
grower who sold for 15d. in the shed ;
in Sydney his neighbors later averaged
19d.
Last season, with the market weaken-
ing, the buyers preferred to buy at the
sales. This season shed-buyers are again
very active, and it is logical to conclude
that they again are anticipating a rise
in the market.
A grower’s valuation of his clip based
on the Sydney average is not reliable.
The average varies, without any altera-
tion of values, as more better-quality
wools come on to the market. Also, the
quality of a clip varies according to the
season.
The grower who sells on the regular
market has the satisfaction of getting
the true market value for his wool. Shed-
selling helps to depress prices by reduc-
ing competition at the auction sales.
Lice in Queensland.
“Warramulla”; Certainly lice-infested
sheep can travel the length and breadth
of Queensland, as “Jumbuck” (B.
2/9/’35) tells us, but only if they are
not discovered. (They can do as much
in N.S.W.)
A C.Q. neighbor was shown a patch
among his ewes at shearing-time, and
advised to keep quiet about it. He
showed it to the Stock Inspector, who
promptly sent it to Brisbane for advice.
The reply was a quarantine order for
three months and inspection of all sheep
leaving the property.
Many Queensland growers, owing to
the climate, never encounter lice, and
fail to recognise them when an odd sheep
or two become infested. This may, in
some measure, account for the erroneous
idea that there are no restrictions.
It will not be long before measures
such as “Jumbuck” mentions will be-
come a recognised part of the sheep-
man’s job in Queensland. Drought
sheep movement is spreading the pests
from the south, though, luckily, dry con-
ditions are not conducive to a serious
epidemic. But lice may be like sheep
and learn to adapt themselves.
Wool Tables.
“Murrawong”: While it is not feasible
to lay down a standard size on account
of the varying requirements of different
districts, the following dimensions for
wool-rolling tables have been tested and
proved most suitable for most sheds;
Length, 10ft. (minimum 9ft. 6in.); width.
sft. (minimum 4ft. 6in.); height, 3ft.
Rollers or battens should be spaced lin.
apart and kept clean to allow locks to
drop through freely.
Strong, round rollers make the best
top, but dressed battens lin. square, laid
on one edge to make the surface a set of
inverted Vs, give satisfactory results.
A single fleece table longer than 10ft.
only accumulates skirtings, usually necks,
instead of letting them drop into the
basket. A table shorter than 9ft. 6in.
will not accommodate an average fleece,
unless from small Tableland-bred
merinos.
If the fleece overhangs the table on
either side, it either breaks off and drops
to the floor or doubles the work of skirt-
ing, and encourages rollers to take short
cuts across the free wool. In districts
where dusty backs have to be removed, it
is a mistake to have tables wider than
sft., as the continual stretching across the
tables to pull the dusty wool away tells
on the rollers, especially if they are short.
Men should always be considered.
Piece-picking tables will vary in size
according to the number of men
employed, but the best type is 33in. high
in front, rising to 36in. at the back, and
4ft. wide. A 6in. board should be nailed
across bins just above table level to-stop
unpicked pieces falling into bins. A table
of this size is wide enough to carry a
fair stack of skirtings and still leave
space to work on. A narrow piece-pick-
ing table is an effective brake on fast
picking.
A Warning.
“Valerin”: The craze for getting
shearing over quickly and cheaply must
have a damaging effect on the prepara-
tion of the Australian clip.
It is impossible for the “100 per cent.”
shed-hands to do a satisfactory job when
shearers are averaging 150 and upwards
a day. The fleece is thrown on the table
in a heap which defies thorough skirting,
with the result that part of the best
wool goes into the “broken” bin. Pieces
are not properly picked, and are often
dumped. The shearing board is .not kept
clean, so fribs, locks, dags, etc., get mixed
up with the better grades. ,
Skeleton Weed Again.
Even with sheep introduced,
skeleton weed seems to be making dan-
gerous way in N.S.W. The only big
progress achieved in dealing with it is in
knowledge of its habits. Seed tests show
that it has a high germination and the
seeds are light and float long distances.
They also, can be carried on wool, to
which they stick disconcertingly; while
the roots, once established, go down for
feet in congenial soil.
When roots are cut, three or four
shoots appear in place of one, and from
a greater depth than with most other
plants. So deep ploughing is not much
good. In official tests roots have been
removed for 2ft. down, and there has
been regrowth.
Nobody has appeared to claim the
reward of £SOOO which has been offered
for an eradication method, and there is
no workable system of control except
heavy stocking. A pint of salt admin-
istered with water will kill a plant which
has been mattocked to two or three
inches below the soil, but it is a long
business.
Sodium chlorate does good, but it is
nasty stuff to handle —highly inflammable
for one thing, and can be used only
with special precautions. Spraying can
suitably be done at this time of year—
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


%J Massey Harris
High-grade
Farm Implements
A complete range of labor-saving implements
and machines for farm, orchard, vineyard and
grassland.
Write to one of the addresses below for a
copy of the 96-page General Catalogue and
Price List of all Sunshine and Massey Harris
Farm Implements. They will be sent promptly
—free and post free.
fd
f
Illustrated above is the
SUNDERCUT
Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
This popular implement is made in two sizes:
10-Disc, cutting sft.
14-Disc, cutting 7ft.
The best fallowing implement. Deals effectively with
heavy weed growth. Can be fitted with a seed and
fertiliser box.
This illustration is of the
SUNTYNE
Combined Grain and Fertiliser Drill
and Tyne Cultivator
The machine that sows and cultivates on the great bulk
of Australia’s grain farms.
Sizes: 8 row —17 tynes—cultivating sft.
12 row—2s tynes—cultivating 71 ft.
14 row—29 tynes—cultivating B£ft.
16 row—33 tynes—cultivating 9 2 ft.
20 row—4l tynes—cultivating 12ft.
24 row—49 tynes—cultivating 14ft.
Sows shallow or deep. Compacts the seed bed.
Pictured below is the
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut, Self-propelled
Will harvest four acres in an hour. Petrol consumption approximately half a gallon to the acre.
Also available the popular SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER, 6ft., Bft., and 10ft. cut, in
both “ground wheel drive” and “engine functioned” types. Sunshine Header Harvesters and
Auto Headers are renowned for their ability to rescue the grain from down and tangled and
thistle-infested crops.
111 *w
nf
-
Mi
SSS
v\^>
«s a
M
*T>i
H.V. McKay Massey Harris Pty.Ltd.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS
SUNSHINE
AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES-.
654-664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
27-39 Broadway,
Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Corner Murray & King
Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND
DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKay Massey
Harris (Qld.) Pty.,
Ltd., Stanley St. and
Glenelg St., South
Brisbane.


A New
Small Graziers* Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
fd
IMMEDIATE EASE
Slip on a pair of these special
Abbey Shoes . . . enjoy the im-
mediate ease they bring. They're
pliant, allowing the feet to relax
restfully. They are glossy and
smart, and they are extra service-
able . . . soled with the toughest
leather obtainable.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow.
medium and wide fittings are
available in all full and half
sizes. Specify width, and order,
also, a supply of Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
DARK TAN CALF, 48/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL 460.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
*PAT.
APPL’D.
FOR
A THERMOMETER
WITHOUT A SCALE IS
LIKEAPEN WITHOUTA
WORD
GAUGE
The CONKLIN
Nozac W ord
Gauge Pen.
You get a fully-
equipped Pen when
you buy a
Clonhlin Nozac
—it is the only pen
with the Word Gauge
which tells you how
many words you have
written or can writ©
without refilling.
Here is the really per-
fected sackless pen
with a visible ink
supply that ‘‘Winds
Like a Watch.”
Available in 3 Modern
Colours at 30/- and
40/- each.
Pencils to Match, 2S/-
each.
From all Stationers,
Jewellers and Depart-
mental Stores.
Molhersills
- im
rif,TIL3
STOPS TRAVEL
SICKNESS bu
SEA, AIR and
TRAIN 2
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations —92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World’s
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special, offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d.
!/ 6
H
(D c Cdlluins
Scots (ilhisky
&9M$-u~-.
CAiobwrOK (f«vr««) IBS?)*** hw
JAe Name /s-
-(lTGillums
’is^ys-
-
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
Igal, water, 11b. sod. chlor., 2oz. glue
well mixed. Be as sparing with the spray
as possible. Chlorate falling on the soil
may destroy its fertility for months in
a dry season. A second dose is needed
in about six weeks to pick up plants
missed the first time.
Much should also be possible through
seed destruction by early burning. Har-
assed farmers who have been driven out
of wheat by the pest and have saved
something from the ruin through sheep
stocking are averse to doing this ; but
they will have to stand the loss if skele-
ton weed is to go.
Potato Fertilising.
“Ghanam”: Victorian official manurial
trials last year as usual proved an object-
lesson in what can be done with potatoes
properly grown and properly fertilised.
At Beech Forest, 6cwt. of super, gave
an increase of 2 tons 7cwt,, or 109 p.c.;
but the return from 9cwt. super, and
lewt. amm. sulph. licked this hollow —
increase 5 tons 13cwt., or 263 p.c.
Almost every result shows an advance
over the average for the past four yeafs.
The average maximum crop-increase due
to combination fertiliser during that
period was 144 p.c. The soil is a friable,
dark, clay loam and there is a high rain-
fall.
At Koroit, where the soil is rich,
returns showed improvements of from
21 p.c. with 3cwt. of basic super, to 57
p.c. with 3cwt. super, and 2cwt. amm.
sulph. These are nothing to complain of
on land which yields about six and a halt
tons without manure.
Other districts showed consistently
larger crops on treated land, in spite of
an unusually wet season.
Benzol for Blue Mould.
“G.S.”: Last season blue mould of
tobacco gave no trouble in Westralia,
but as immunity cannot be reckoned on
tobacco-growers in the Western State are
being instructed in the benzol preventive
treatment by their very competent Gov-
ernment Plant Pathologist, H. A. Pittman.
Benzol is, of course, a Broken Hill
Prop, product; the price, in 44-gallon
drums, is Is. lOd. a gallon f.o.b. Mel-
bourne. In the first place, it is necessary
to have your seedbeds covered —-prefer-
ably with calico, waterproofed with raw
linseed oil —and the central idea is to
have two square inches of evaporating
surface for every square foot of seed-
bed.
You pour the benzol into square tins,
4±in. x 4|in. x Uin., at night, placing
the tins nine times as far apart as their
diameter —of course, mathematical accu-
racy is not insisted upon. Remove the
benzol in the morning or at any other time
when the covers are taken off the beds.
An exception is made in wet weather:
then, if covers are not removed for
several days on end, the benzol remains.
Hitherto it has been C.S. and I.R.
practice to introduce the benzol into the
containers from the time when the seed-
lings first develop until they are trans-
planted. It is now suggested that the
benzol treatment may be delayed until the
seedlings have grown for a month or so
after germination.
Generally speaking, blue mould does
not attack very young seedlings —it usu-
ally does its worst just before transplant-
ing time. Covers must be fairly well
gastight, but it is not considered neces-
sary to block up small cracks which may
occur in the wooden sides of the beds.
Save the Trees!
“Girder”: Landholders do not seem
to realise the harm they do themselves
and future generations by wholesale ring-
barking.
We were cutting girders on a 2000-acre
property near Maryborough (Q.), paying
£1 or more for each and every tree we
felled. The owner put on a gang of men
to ring everything that would not make
a girder, destroying hundreds of trees
/that would have made good girders in
another 30 years.
We pointed out to him that even if he
wanted grass he was robbing his children
of at least £1000 hard cash—possibly
twice as much. He would not be con-
vinced that even two good trees left to
the acre would not harm his grass.
It is time the Government checked this
wanton destruction.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billy See”: When short of drills for
a small wheel brace with a three-jawed
chuck, take one of the nails you intend
to use, nip off the head and sharpen the
point to a drilling cut. With a touch of
grease it will then bore through the
hardest wood without breaking, and will
last indefinitely.
“Wah”: Add a few feet of galvanised-
iron piping to the overflow spout of
your windmill tank, and run the waste
back into the bore or well. It saves the
water and the tankstand and avoids a
mess.
“Tockillv”: When building a bark hut
or a galley in the bush use green bark,
reversing every second sheet and leaving
plenty of overlap. As the bark dries,
the edges curl into one another and seal
the joins against rain.
“Pick”: Let me come in with some
real potato - growing records. Jack
Rutherford, on Bibbenluke closer settle-
ment (N.S.W.), planted four acres of
Manhattans. Yield: 12 tons to the acre.
From many plants counted, none turned
out fewer than 84 murphies ; the cham-
pion stalk produced 112. Any two stalks
would fill a petrol-tin with tubers. In
the whole area there weren’t any marble
sizes. The smallest spuds were average
seed potatoes.
“Marsh”: Can you beat it? Jones,
of western Queensland, began the
1934-35 assessment year with about 150
head of mixed cattle. There was no
increase—the drought saw to that —and
during the year Jones received in wages
and cash from cattle sold less than £100,
with which he had to maintain a wife
and four children. The State Income
Tax Commissioner has slugged Jones £3
10s. for the year.
“Balogie”: How is this for profit-
able stock-rearing? I put 150 breeder
cows into a paddock with two Aberdeen
Angus bulls in January, 1933. I branded
150 calves—78 male and 72 female, and
weaned the lot this year.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department !
In the dead trunk of one of our old grape-
vines the white-ants have nested, about a foot
above ground. What is the best method of
eradication ? Is there any satisfactory poison
which I could use without damaging the vine ?
—8792.
The infested dead wood should be levered
open very carefully, so as to expose the run-
ways and tunnels of the ants, and a small quan-
tity of Paris green then blown into the tunnel
openings and workings with the aid of a small
bulb insecticide blower. The wood prised
open should then be allowed to fall into place
again. After seven or eight days there should
be no ants left.
How are b [ ower e i eva tors fitted to chaff-
cutters ? I have a Bentall three-blade cutter
without elevator, and wish to fit 0ne.— 8778.
The blower has a round opening on each of
twQ sides> and the chaff 1S wor ked into
either Q f t h e se openings by a short screw con-
V eyor which has one bearing only, set at
the opposite end to that at which the chart
“wSid of g the
cbaff into the blower. With only one bearing,
the conveyor has a considerable overhang, and
because of Ihis the bearing must be very »cie.
a 7l , r o U gh Uo which the chaff falls from
the knives.
* * * *
states ? (2) Average number of hives that can
be attended to by one person ? (3) Are there
any districts in S.A. where non-migratory bee-
keeping is possible ? (4) Capital required, and
what return may be expected? (5) What ex-
perience is necessary ? —8927.
('ll As the forest resources of S.A. are less
in other StateSf it appears likely that
re t U rns would be better elsewhere. (2) Experi-
enced apiarists with adequate equipment often
attend up to 200 hives. (3) Not to a com-
mercial extent; some seasonal movement ot
stock j s USU ally necessary, even if only in the
same district. (4) Varies according to the
number of hives it is intended to keep, whether
£ Returns
will also vary f rom season to season; an
average of lewt. per hive per year over a
jierfadri five years eredjood
-with, a commercial apiarist is desirable, pre-
ferably in the district it is proposed to
operate in, as conditions vary considerably.


SMOKE-OH!
Will it become a League of Resigna-
tions?
*1- •!• *F
“Three hundred whales are stranded near
Stanley (Tas.). Various theories have been
advanced to explain how they got there.”
—“ S. M. Herald.”
The most likely explanation seems to
be that the cetaceans were true British
whales and decided on mass suicide
rather than risk capture by the new
Japanese whaling fleet.
* * * *
The Humanitarian.
Humane businessmen are rarities, but
Softsope is benevolence personified.
Realising that hired flesh is particu-
larly weak, he provides his clerks with
easy-chairs and desks low enough to
accommodate their feet.
Now he has fitted horizontal velvet-
inlaid racks on all tables so that the
desk-style fountain-pens which stand up
so painfully straight all day may lie
down at night.
P. C.
►l* -I* -I*
Two Recipes.
Prunes washed, stoned, minced and
steamed into a viscid mash will improve
a creamed rice pudding if left out.
Wine trifle makes a delightful dessert
if subjected to hydraulic pressure, the
“I tell y I thought 'e Was a bit o’ paper!"
sherry being recovered and the sponge-
i ■ . c e ,,„
cake, jam and cream thrown away. S v.
in glasses.
McC.
•b * 4*
“A German scientist claims to have dis-
covered a method of obtaining water from the
air-” “Telegraph.”
When he discovers how to obtain beer
c ~ -
liom the air well begin to take not .
4* *i*
“In the good old days a woman’s dress
covered her insteps.” —Magazine item.
Now it barely covers her step-ins.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Paavo Nurmi announces his retirement.”
All Finnish.
Making Our Railways Pay.
IV. —More About My Staff.
My Uncle Ebenezer will make an ex-
cellent publicity man. A publicity man
will be absolutely essential, as my rail-
ways will run so efficiently and so silently
that no one will know they’re there. But
Uncle Ebenezer’ll let ’em know.
He did all the publicity work for
Cousin Emma’s divorce, and did it so
thoroughly that all the family who could
afford it took an extended holiday
abroad. Then, when my brother Alf
(always one for his little joke) was
arrested for pocketing the spoons at the
Lord Mayor’s banquet, old Eb. got to
work, and there was hardly a person in
Melbourne, Sydney and Moonta who
didn't hear of it.
He’ll be quite cheap, too. Give him a
couple of thousand a year and his exes,
and he’ll do the job simply for the love
of it.
Then there’ll be an economy expert
needed. My Aunt Gwendolyn is just
the woman. She’s the sort of person
who cuts the eyes out of the potatoes
and plants them in the window-box, and
collects grape-seeds and grinds them up
for canary food.
She’ll be a wonderful asset.
Already she has made a couple of in-
valuable suggestions.
“No more whistling!” she said when
I first mentioned the job.
“But I don’t whistle,” I replied.
“Not you —the trains!” said Aunt
Gwendolyn. “They whistle too much. A
waste of money. There’s no need for
trains to whistle at all.”
She made some rapid calculations, and
informed me that by eliminating
whistling our trains would save several
thousand tons of coal and whole reser-
voirs of water per annum.
“More than enough to pay my salary,”
she added.
“Then again,” she said, “there’s soot
and cinders. Floating around and get-
ting in people’s eyes! A shameful waste!
I’ll put soot-catchers on the engine chim-
neys and we’ll save all that soot. The
engine-driver can bag it as he goes along,
and it can be sold to the farmers for
fertiliser. They’ll snap it up like hot
cakes!”
That’s the sort of woman Aunt Gwen-
dolyn is. Full of ideas. I forget how
much she’s going to make on the soot,
but it'll be a big help.
Jasby.
“Discussing the question of food shortage
in Germany, Dr. Goebbels said that, though
supplies of bread, potatoes and beef were
adequate, there was a great scarcity of pork.”
— Cable.
Well, he can’t blame the Jews for
that.
“He asked a man named Wonders to act
as bailiff, but he refused.” — Police-court report.
Wonders will never seize.
►I* -I*
As Promised.
The story that politicians do not keep
any of their promises is a gross libel.
Take the case of Albert Nitte-Witte.
M.P. for Looney Park. He made all
kinds of promises—better housing, motor-
cars, more pocket money and so on.
He hasn’t gone back on one of those
promises. The girl he promised all
those things to made sure of that after
she married him. g g S Q
•{* -!- -I- *I*
“If disturbed when writing he threw books
at the interrupter. ” —“ S.M.H.”
The throws of composition..
>1* 4-
A Useful Pest.
“The discovery of borers in certain lines of
imported buttons has occasioned some concern
in business circles.” — “S.M.H.”
It was the day after the commence-
ment of the Test match, and Hector,
the office boy, was on the mat.
“Well,” barked the manager, “you
were away again yesterday. In August
you had a day off for your grandmother's
funeral. Strangely enough, that happened
to coincide with an important football
match. The first hot day of the season,
you had another off to attend your
grandfather’s remarriage. The ceremony
must have been an alfresco one, for the
following day your face showed unmis-
takable evidence of severe sunburn.
And now yesterday. What was it this
time,” he asked ominously—“grandfather
dead?”
“Aw, grandfather’s all right,” answered
Hector. “But me mother got me
a new suit, an’ she didn’t notice that
there was borers in the buttons. When I
got up yestiddy to come to work them
borers had et all the seat of me strides
away. I had to stop in bed while me
mother come into town to change ’em.
By the time she got back it was too late
to come in.”
The manager punched the sales
manager’s bell.
“Here,” he said when that official
came, “is a new junior member for your
sales staff.”
Qijayeau.
How to Furnish a Darlinghurst Flat.
The first essential is, of course, a
radio. Select one with a volume loud
enough to compete with any other radio
in the building. There is nothing more
humiliating than to be insufficiently
noisy in this respect.
Next you will need an ice-chest. A
large one, if you wish to keep edibles in
it as well. Even without edibles, a large
one is perhaps advisable.
The question of where to keep the
empties is rather difficult. I suggest the
kitchenette. If too small, remove the
stove. But remember that a little
kitchenette-space must be reserved for
empty tins.
"I'd love to take you with me, darling, but mumsy
cant leave the flat unprotected .”
In choosing ornaments, pictures, etc.,
be guided by a variety of tastes, and let
the tout ensemble be savored with classi-
cal indecency. Gaps on the walls may
be filled up with pictures of racehorses
and movie stars. Holes in the wall may
be covered by the same process. Vases
should be placed well out of reach, as
it is desirable that nothing should be
thrown in the flat except parties.
If the flat has more than one room,
the other should be provided with green
blinds and soft shadings, and reserved
for mornings after.
With the exception of a couple of
floor-boards which give access to that
portion of the stock-in-trade not stored
in the ice-chest, the rest of the furnishing
scheme is unimportant. Any junk shop
will fill it up for you.
Nat.
Friction.
“Yes, great on hills,” the used-car sales-
man swore.
On “great,” as you can see, he placed
some stress;
But now l think, judged by its rattling
roar,
He meant the word to have a final
“s” !
Bokio.
-I- -2- *1*
Wet Saturday.
William, captain of the Bingaroop
Eleven, stared despondently up at the
rain clouds.
Another wet Saturday! He cursed
bitterly, for the match which he had
been looking forward to all the week had
been abandoned, leaving before him the
prospect of a dreary afternoon.
Muffling himself in an overcoat, he
wandered listlessly down the street. The
rain poured around him dishearteningly ;
swollen gutter-streams ran swirling into
the drains ; his boots squelched on the
wet pavement.
Occasionally he stared up at the sky,
hoping to see a break, but in vain. He
was too depressed to enjoy the pictures ;
in fact, too depressed to do anything—
except....
He paused outside a hotel, out of
which floated a cheerful hum of voices,
the clink of glasses, radio music. He
decided that a drink or two might help
to pass the time. He walked in.
Two hours later he was in the street
again. But now he was accompanied by
a new friend, and as he glanced at the
cloud-laden sky there was a look of
ecstasy on his face.
“I hope it rainsh necksh Shaturday!”
he exclaimed.
T. W.N.
Rebellion Against Restriction.
/ have a niche for shoes and hats,
For sweaters, collars, coats and vests ;
A trouser-press to crease my slats
What time my shirts recline in chests
Together with my socks and ties
Of mingled tones, from blues to pinks.
And, being orderly and wise,
I keep a box for studs and links.
But desperation clouds my face
And scores my brow with line and
ridge —
I’m damned if I can find a place
To put my feet when playing bridge!
P. O. M. C.
Freezing Hot.
After many years of inactivity, Iceland s
oldest geyser, the Haukadal, was again active
recently, a stream of hot water being flung
more than into the ail. Sun.
One of ttiy visits to Iceland coincided
with the rare activity of this old geyser,
leading to a thrilling experience.
As technical expert to a CO. formed
to establish an eiderdown industry in
Australia, I had gone to Reykjavik to
get the low-down on the habits of the
eider-duck. I thought of crossing the
northern bird with our emus, some of
which I took with me for the purpose.
I was convinced that this would put
the industry on a solid footing. The
emu, now a pest, would become a
national asset; moreover, the cross would
be easier to pluck than the fiddling little
eider-duck. Again, with a greater flesh
space to grow down on, the output. I
calculated, would be enormous. The
co. had hopes of landing contracts
to reseat all Parliamentary benches
throughout the Commonwealth.
In Iceland I met with initial success,
and decided to celebrate by having a
night out. Well, you know
what an Icelandic night can
be—anyway, I woke up with
a terrific head two months
later. Imagine the feeling
after a bender on sperm oil
and 0.P.! There being no
known pick-me-up for the
national drink, I decided to
get out in the mountains and
work the effects off by al-
pining.
I must have got too close
to Haukadal, for it suddenly
geysed. As the boiling water
shot up it immediately froze,
and I was imprisoned beneath
it.
As soon as it de-geysed I
set to work with the rubber
spade I always carry when in
Iceland. Though I kept cool,
I had to work
feverishly at the
frozen boiling
water, so that I
had alternate fits
of shivering and
sweating. By the
time I got myself
out I was in a
mess, as the burns
I had suffered
were frostbitten.
I had to undergo
a special thermo-
glacial treatment,
and was confined
to the specially-
warmed refrigerator of the Reykjavik
Hospital for months. By that time I had
received a cable to the effect (hat sponge
rubber was now considered more sopo-
rific for Parliamentary seats.
Thoroughly disgusted, I sold the emus
to an Iceland cocky as insect-destroyers,
and left the country.
S. W. K.


USEFUL DATA ON 14-H.P. VAUXHALL
LIGHT SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 18 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 10 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third in 7
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 19ft. Gin.
Maximum speed, 65.21 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 28.7 m.p.g.
••SILVER
EDGE”
ifauActitoA’
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS!
SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
1
HAMPION
mm
| mm
VV<NPSO«y SPARKING PLUGS
CANADA
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
The Steering Column.
VAUXHALL LIGHT SIX PUT THROUGH
ITS PACES.
MANY IMPROVEMENTS IN NEW MODEL.
By FRED BERRY.
N TOW in its second year on the Australian market, the
Vauxhall DX Light Six has become more popular than
any of its marque. The first edition, in the hands of all types
of drivers and over good and bad roads, has given satisfactory
service, and the ’35 model, tested recently over the “Bulletin”
course, being longer, lower, roomier and fitted with independent
front-wheel suspension, should' retain old friends of Vauxhall
and win new.
Alterations have been made in the
new model mainly with the object of
providing greater comfort for passengers
and to improve roadholding qualities.
The engine is located in the chassis four
inches further forward, so providing
better distribution of weight and giving
greater leg room. By mounting the body
on brackets outside the frame the floor
level, overall height and centre of gravity
are lowered without sacrificing head
room and with benefit to the car’s ex-
terior appearance.
Quietness in running has been given
special consideration, compressed rubber
being freely used in construction, while
exhaust noise from the motor is reduced
to a minimum by the addition of an
auxiliary expansion chamber at the front
end of the exhaust downpipe.
A special permanent jacking system,
built into the car, which allows both
wheels on one side to be raised simul-
taneously, will be fully appreciated by
those motorists who have had experience
in jacking up modern streamlined cars
under difficult conditions.
The six-cylinder DX-type motor is
mounted in the chassis on four inclined
rubber cushions. Bore is 2.42 in. and
stroke 3.93 in., giving a piston displace-
ment of 108.8 cub. in. (1781 c.c.) and
R.A.C. rating of 14.07 h.p. Compression
ratio is 6} to 1, and at 3500 r.p.m. 42
b.h.p. is developed.
To provide maximum rigidity, the
crankcase and cylinder block of chro-
Power unit and gearbox of the 14-h.p. Light Six Vauxhall,
showing clean exterior and accessibility of all details.
midium iron are cast en bloc, and, in
addition, strengthening ribs are located
at all essential points.
Cylinder head is detachable, with com-
bustion chamber designed to provide high
volumetric efficiency without pinking.
Valves, of overhead type, are large
Efficient, economical, roomy and road worthy: the new DX Light Six Vauxhall.
diameter, with special provision for cool-
ing. Valve gear, mounted on a hollow
shaft located above the cylinder block,
is actuated by steel rocker-arms and push-
rods. Removable
cast-iron guides are
fitted. Clearance of
valve stems is 8
thou, inlet, 10
thou, exhaust, with
motor hot. Cam-
shaft is driven by
silent chain.
Pistons are split-
skirt type, of alu-
minium alloy, with
two compression
rings and an oil-
return ring located
above the gudgeon
pin. The connect-
ing rods, of I-beam
section, are drilled
to convey lubricat-
ing oil from big-
end to small-end
bearings. The
crankshaft is balanced statically and
dynamically, and runs on four large
main bearings. A Vauxhall-designed
vibration damper is mounted on the
forward end.
Fuel is drawn from a nine-gallon tank
at the rear by a mechanical pump and
fed to a Zenith down-draught carburet-
tor equipped with air-cleaner, silencer
and flame-arrester. Throttle and choke
controls are interconnected, cam-
operated, to ensure correct mixture
strength in relation to throttle opening
for easy starting.
Electrical equipment is 12-volt, sepa-
rate-unit type. Generator provides three
charging rates, with half-charge switch
mounted on instrument panel. Starter
motor, located on flywheel housing, is
mechanically engaged before power is
applied, and is fitted with an overrun-
ning clutch.
Wiring is single-pole earth-return
system throughout. Ignition distributor
unit is driven in tandem with oil pump
through spiral gear, the fully automatic
ignition advance having combined
vacuum and governor control.
A micrometer adjustment,
manually operated, is also fitted
for regulating the spark to suit
various fuels. Firing order is
I, 5,3, 6,2, 4. Spark gap is
22 thou.; contact-breaker gap,
12 thou.
High-pressure lubrication system is
used, a geared pump located in the sump
forcing oil to the main connecting rod,
camshaft bearings and rocker gear. Con-
necting-rod big ends are drilled to supply
a jet of oil to the cylinders at every
revolution of crankshaft.
In addition to large gauze screen in
the sump, oil is purified by a cartridge-
type filter. A simple
and efficient crankcase
ventilating system is
incorporated, the out-
let pipe protruding
below the engine tray
and preventing fumes
from entering the
body of the car.
Transmission is by
single-plate dry-disc
clutch with remote-
control flexible-cable
“throw-out” mechan-
ism to a four-speed-
and-reverse gearbox,
with synchromesh
easy-change mechanism on top and third
gears. Constant-mesh gears and silent
“third” are single helical type ; remainder
are conventional spur gears. Automatic
locking device is provided on all for-
ward speeds to prevent gears jumping
out of mesh.
Final drive is by an open tubular pro-
peller shaft using Hardy-Spicer needle-
roller universal joints front and rear.
Rear axle is semi-floating type, with
one-piece pressed-steel banjo housing
Ingenious front-end construction: A,
box section ; B, rubber-cushioned engine
mountings; C, pivot-pin support cross
member; D, special bumper-bar sup-
ports; E, radiator and front-wing
support.
equipped throughout with ball-bearings.
Final reduction ratio in crown wheel and
pinion assembly is 4.77 to 1.
Chassis is of cruci-
fo r m construction,
having great torsional
rigidity. Front quar-
ter length is box sec-
tion, and six sturdy
cross members are
welded to the side
channel. Midway is
a heavy cross member
extending the full
width of the car and
running boards to
provide an anchorage
for the jacking system.
Suspension is by
conventional semi-
elliptic springs at rear,
in conjunction with
hydraulic shock-ab-
sorbers, shackle bolts
being threaded into
spring eyes, A sway-
stabiliser is attached
to both rear shock-absorbers to mini-
mise rolling on corners. Independent
front-wheel suspension is used, the cylin-
drical helical wire springs of the knee-
action functioning in enclosed housings
under “oil-bath” conditions. Double-
acting hydraulic shock-absorbers are
attached to each wheel.
Foot and hand controls operate semi-
servo two-shoe brakes on all four wheels,
enclosed cables being used. The four
brake operating levers work on needle
roller bearings.
Steering is of worm-and-sector type,
adjustment being provided to take up


!wsW<>
Mjy i— "^SSi
lake my tip
change to the New Mobiloil”
It’s a good tip, too—because the new Mobiloil is made
by the exclusive Clearosol process, and that means
it is 100 per cent. PURE LUBRICANT.
The new Mobiloil is a trouble-free oil, because there
is nothing in it to cause trouble. Your engine will run
better—faster—snappier; it will keep in good condition
longer easier cheaper, if you use this remarkable
new oil made by this remarkable new process.
THENEW
WORLD FAMOUS
PROCESS
CLEAROSOL
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY ill
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
end play in sector shaft and steering-
column as well as in the meshing of
worm and sector. Turning circle is 36ft.
on both left and right lock.
Wire wheels, with 5.50 x 16 four-ply
tyres, are standard equipment. Wheel-
base is lOlin.; track, 4ft. 2in.; mini-
mum ground clearance, 7in.
Cutaway section of the totally enclosed
knee-action, independent front-wheel
suspension, showing recoil springs and
double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers.
Adjustable front seats are fitted to
closed models, together with a no-
draught ventilation system and manually-
operated cowl ventilator. Full bumper
bars are fitted at front; bumpereltes at
rear. Spare wheel is carried in built-in
luggage trunk at rear.
The instrument panel, neatly arranged
in the centre of the dash, is indirectly
lighted, and includes speedometer and
eight-day clock, oil and petrol gauges,
ammeter and ignition warning lights,
charging and lighting switch and inspec-
tion lamp point. The starter button is
foot-operated, adjacent to clutch pedal.
The car taken over the test course was
a four-door sedan, driven by H. A. Poul-
ton, of Boyded, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors.
Speedometer registered 4346 miles, and
the car weighed, with full lank, driver
and observer, 27£cwt.
First impression on driving through
city traffic was the facility with which
the Vauxhall can be handled. The short
wheelbase, easy-change gearbox and light
steering, together with excellent top-gear
flexibility and pulling, permitted a fast
pace to be maintained without fuss. On
the open country road the speedometer
hovered between 40 and 45 m.p.h., and
it was evident that if petrol economy
was not of much importance a steady
50 could be maintained with comfort
for long periods.
At Pitt Town road speed was dropped
to 15 m.p.h., and from a given point the
car coasted 742 yards before coming to
rest, a figure that has only once been
bettered over this series of tests, and a
certain indication of freedom of bear-
ings and perfect wheel alignment.
On the measured mile a test of maxi-
mum speed was made, and with a flying
start the distance was clocked in 55 1-5
Cutaway section of metal universal
joints, showing spline shaft and needle
roller bearings.
sec., averaging 65.21 m.p.h. On this
section, despite high engine revs., the
motor was exceedingly quiet and free
from vibration, while roadholding and
steering qualities were quite satisfactory.
On the unmade by-pass road through
Grose Vale the car showed to advan-
tage, fore and aft pitching being notice-
ably absent, owing, probably, to the ex-
cellent riding qualities provided by the
independent front-wheel suspension. Ex-
cept for one brief change into third gear,
the whole of this section was negotiated
in top.
On Kurrajong Mountain the final
2 1-5 miles of steepest grade was selected
for the hill climb, and from a standing
start the ascent was made in 4min.
28sec., second, third and top gears being
used. The car held the road and took
the several acute bends in a most work-
manlike fashion.
Returning down the mountain, a test
of emergency braking equipment was
made with satisfactory results.
Continuing towards Penrith, further
traffic tests were made on the Castle-
reagh-road. Top-gear flexibility was
checked by timing the car over 350
yards, first as slowly as possible, fol-
lowed immediately by 350 yards on full
throttle. Time taken for slow running,
2min. 26sec., averaged 4.9 m.p.h. The
accelerated section was clocked in 19 4-5
sec., averaging 35.4 m.p.h., the Vaux-
hall crossing the finishing line at 50
m.p.h.
Acceleration from a steady 10 m.p.h.
to 30 m.p.h. occupied 10 l-ssec. in top,
7sec. in third and 5 4-ssec. in second,
while from a standing start to 50 m.p.h.
through all gears was clocked in 18
2-ssec.
A test of braking equipment showed
that the car could be stopped in 19ft.
6in. from a speed of 25 m.p.h. Fuel con-
sumed on the journey of 122 miles was
4i gallons, averaging 28.7 m.p.g. (39.1
ton miles), and the average speed, in-
clusive of all tests, was 33.9 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
N.D.B. (Brighton, Vic.) — My ’2B model six-
cylinder car, recently overhauled and rebored,
runs very hot when driven at speed or on a
long run. Until the overheating appears the
engine pulls better than when new. Cause and
cure ?
A motor usually runs hotter after reboring
and decarbonising owing to more heat being
transmitted to the head, but this is only partly
the cause of your worry, for, if the cooling
system was in good condition, the excess heat
should not cause boiling. Try having the radi-
ator core and water passages in the cylinder
block cleaned out by high-pressure air-water
system.
* * * *
P.H.T. (Corowa, N.S.W.).—(I) Petrol con-
sumption of my model T Ford ’27 ( about
30,000 miles ) formerly 25-30 m.p.g., has now in-
creased to 15-18 m.p.g. Coils are in good
condition, commutator new, and transmission
bands good. Any suggestions ? (2) Can the
clutch finger screws be taken out without
taking off transmission cover ?
(1) Increase in petrol consumption is due
to losses and friction by wear, valves, valve
guides, cylinders and pistons being chief offen-
ders. Look also for leak in petrol tank or fuel
line. (2) Yes, in ’27 model by removing in-
spection plate.
He * * *
S. (Lower Hutt, M.L.). — Address of Sydney
agents for Armstrong-Siddeley cars ?
Buckle and Harden, Ltd., William-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
M.C.McK. (Dapto, N.S.W.). — Which of the
following closed cars ( named) would give me
best service ?
No. 2, 3 or 4 in terms of economy; No.
1 or 5, speed and comfort.
* * * *
T. (Lithgow, N.S.W.). — After 6000 miles’
running my new 12 -h.p. car began to pull
badly, and finally missed regularly on one
cylinder. Found one valve almost burned out.
Agents say I must foot the bill, as the fault
was mine. Will you advise ?
Burned valve is due probably to incorrect
tappet adjustment on that cylinder, and, as
(Continued on next page.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon, Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
CHEQUE
A C C 0 U N T S
Almost every person of standing in
the community has a cheque account,
because to pay by cheque is safer .. .
easier . . . more modern and your
cheque-butt provides a record of
income and expenditure. A cheque
account may be opened at any
branch of the Rural Bank.
Fixed Deposits are also accepted.
RURAL BAiK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office ...... 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch: 350 George Street, (Opp. Wynyard Street.)
Commissioners: G. R. McKerihan (President) H. Rogers P. Kearns
Stromberg
•Carlson
RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C 4
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 Q(SECOND
X EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM "THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, 0/0 FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Simoniz Your Car
. ... It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kleen er makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
r — 1
tAS MAN’S DISCOVERY SHIPS
NO
SMs* *
&
HEEMSKERK AND ZEEHAEN
ABEL TASMAN
JVhe?t Australia was New Holland
In 1642, Abel Tasman discovered Tasmania, naming it Van Diemen's
Land after the then Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies.
Two years later, on another voyage, Tasman sailed along the northern
coast of Australia from Cape York In Queensland to North-west Capa
in Western Australia.
After Tasman's voyages, the Dutch commenced to use the name New
Holland to include Van Dieman's Land and the unexplored territory,
the northern shores of which he had sighted.
In 1770, Captain Cook took possession of the whole of the eastern
coast of New Holland and named it New South Wales. The continent
of Australia, however, continued to be known as New Holland for
many years, Matthew Flinders eventually suggesting that it be named
Australia. It was not until 1829, however, that the name Australia was
officially recognised, when an Act of the Imperial Parliament made
provision for the settlement of "Western Australia, on the western
coast of New Holland".
Twelve years earlier, the Bank of New South Wales had been estab-
lished in Sydney, when the colony of New South Wales included the
present States of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania,
part of South Australia and the Northern Territory, and New Zealand.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australasia
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 17.
159A.193S
the distance covered is outside service guaran-
tee and there is no suggestion of faulty
material, you are legally responsible for re-
pairs.
* * * *
P.B. (Dirranbandi, Q.). —Hydraulic brakes on
my car are giving trouble. When pedal is
applied nothing happens unless I “pump-up”
a few times, and this trouble persists. I keep
the supply tank full. Cause and remedy ?
Either an air lock has developed in the
hydraulic line, in which case the system will
have to be bled, or the rubber washer in
the master cylinder has worn and requires
renewal.
$ * » *
J.J. (Rockhampton, Q.). —Where in Sydney
can I obtain spares for De Solo, Overland and
Ford Model T ?
De Soto, Buckle and Harden, Ltd., William-
street; Overland, Overland Sydney, Ltd., Eliza-
beth-street; Ford T, Hastings, Deering, Ltd.,
Wattle-street, Ultimo, or Bennett and Wood,
Ltd., Pilt-strcet.
}{t sjc :Jc *
Motion (Payneham, S.A.). —(1) / am using
the grade of oil recommended by the makers
of my car, but have been advised that by
changing to another make ( named) belter
results will be secured. Will you advise ? (2)
What are the advantages of a process {named),
and how will it give heller engine performance ?
(1) Makers of your car don’t guess at the
right oil, and you would be well advised to
adhere to their recommendations. (2) It is
guaranteed to remove tarry matters and
free carbon from any lubricating oil. If this
is done engine performance must be improved.
* >[! >]: *
E.G.H. (Glass House Mountains, Q.). —My
’l4 model 9-h.p. Standard runs well, hut on
a long fast run radiator water needs replenish-
ing every 25 miles. Radiator gels hot, but
does not boil. Have been using hard water,
and inside of water passages is heavily coated
with deposit, hut as radiator is of copper and
brass I’m afraid to use acid. What can 1 do
to cure the defect ?
Try caustic soda, one pound to each gallon
of water. Fill up and keep the engine run-
ning for an hour. Flush with clean water,
and repeat process until deposit is absorbed.
$ 3*C H* *
H.P.Q. (Tambo, Q.). — My car's standard tyres
were 29 x 4.40. I now have 31 x 5.25 on it.
What is the effect on the speedo. reading—
speed and mileage ?
Depends a bit upon inflation pressure, but
if diameter is maintained speedo. will read
approximately 7 p.c. slow in both trip mileage
and miles per hour.
* * * *
A.CJ. (Glenroy, Vic.). —If I rev. up the
engine of my ’29 model car and depress the
clutch pedal I notice a distinct squealing noise
coming from somewhere beneath the foot-
boards. Can this be remedied ?
Clutch withdrawal mechanism and spline
shaft are probably badly worn and require
overhaul. Lubrication will not effect a perma-
nent cure, but rather cause further damage to
clutch faces.
JR. (Gordonvale, Q.). —(1) Since registration
tax applies only to main roads, would it be
legal to use an unregistered vehicle on council
roads? (2) An inquiry about tractors (details
set out).
(1) No. A vehicle must be registered to
operate on any public highway. The only
place where an unregistered vehicle can legally
be used is on enclosed private property. (2)
Modern engines give approximately similar
power for given cylinder capacity. There are
no exceptions to that rule in the truck field.
* $ * *
H.G.S. (Dorrigo, N.S.W.). —My '2B four-
cylinder car has developed a lap when the
engine is accelerated on heavy pulling. It is
not noticeable when idling. Valves have been
ground, tappets adjusted, big ends and mains
tightened and new rings fitted. Timing chain
is not slack. Mileage is 28,000. Cause ?
Motor appears to be in sound mechanical
order, therefore the only likely reason for
knock when pulling is that, when last over-
hauled, the ignition point was advanced too
far, and consequently the motor “pinks” on
load. Try retarding the ignition slightly.
* * * *
D.W.P. (Glenelg, Vic.). —In what part of
the electrical circuit of my Coventry Eagle
motor-cycle do I put a fuse ? The circuit is
usual battery type, with head- and tail-light,
horn and ammeter working from it.
No fuse is incorporated in the wiring dia-
gram, and there appears no occasion to alter
the layout. If you must have a fuse, insert it
in lead to ammeter.
* * ♦
J.O’D. (Toowoomba, Q.). —Where in Sydney
can spares be obtained for Renault cars ?
Try Hipsley’s, Ltd., 27 Palmer-street.
* * * *
M.J.C. (Greensborough, Vic.). —(1) Can the
large Cadillac do 150 m.p.h. ? (2) Can any
car in Australia ? (3) Most economical cruising
speed for a ’35 Plymouth ?
(1) No, not as a stock production. (2) Yes.
Enterprise, a car built to attack world’s speed
records, can better this figure. (3) 35-40 m.p.h.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Vamac”; A resourceful chap I knew
was pushed for time to reach Kynuna
(Q.) from Charleville. He was driving
an ancient bus, and had his wife and
two small children aboard. Near Auga-
thella the steering gear broke beyond
repair, making the wheel just an orna-
ment, Did he weep? Not a bit of it.
With tomahawk, pliers, fencing wire and
a sapling he soon had a lever attached
to the steering connecting rod, fulcrum
fastened somehow to the main side
member of the chassis, and the lever
handle projecting upward just outside the
front door. With this push-pull steering
contrivance he drove the remaining 500
miles, and got home in time to keep his
appointment with the jumbucks.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Opal”: On the mail run from Kin-
goonya to the Coober Pedy (S.A.), the
radiator of the Dodge ran out of water.
After some deliberation, driver Jim
emptied a tin of petrol into it, but, being
doubtful as to what might happen when
he started the engine, decided to play
safe. Retarding the spark and opening
the throttle, he took a long, thin sapling
and, standing as far away as possible,
pressed the starter. The engine came to
life with a roar, and Jim hastily retreated
to a safe distance, while the engine raced
like a thing gone mad. When sure it
would not blow up. Jim got aboard and
completed* his trip, but with many
qualms.
* * * *
“Jo”: It happened in S. Brisbane, when
motor-car and pushbike, bound in
opposite directions, met with a deafening
crash right under the amazed traffic cop’s
eyes. Business people stopped to gaze ;
a dame rushed to the near-by ’phone
booth and rang up the ambulance ; a girl
wilted and fell prone on the pavement.
Then, to the astonishment of the crowd,
the driver and rider of the contesting
vehicles grinned at each other. A survey
of both car and bike showed neither
damaged nor scratched. But right in the
midst of the traffic were two white plates
smashed into a thousand pieces. No one
asked why the cyclist was carrying
dinner plates.
It was a Hoga»; Government that built
the Spencer-street bridge, which had the
effect of throwing the whole of the
swinging basin, with over half a mile
of wharves on each side of the Yarra, out
of action. Shipping could no longer
pass the bridge, and land on the city side
formerly devoted to sheds and handling
freight became a waste area. That it
still is, though there has been talk of
utilising it somehow. Meanwhile, motor-
ists have nowhere to leave their cars.
Official parking places are generally filled
before 10 a.m., and later drivers are
forced to the kerbstone, where delays
lead to a £2 fine.
* * « *
What is the justification for
the duty on motor-cars? It merely em-
bodies the notion that cars are luxuries
and that the rich man should pay for
his fads. But cars have ceased to
be luxuries for the last 20 years,
and a considerable proportion are com-
mercial necessities. The tariff on bodies
is quite in accordance with Pro-
tectionist principles, for body-building
to-day has grown to a big industry. The
assembling of imported parts is also re-
sponsible for the employment of much
capital and labor; and to clap duties on
-such parts as are made locally is perfectly
sound. But to levy taxes on accessories
which have to be imported is quite un-
fair, and is a distinct handicap to our
progress.


OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , _ .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. , .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Lady desires position as travelling companion
to elderly person. Can drive car. —8921.
Young man (20), Vic., wants job on farm,
any State; can drive single or double teams.
—BBOO.
Young man, Hawkesbury diploma, exp.
agriculture and stock, wants position. Refs.
—8902.
American (25), well educated, would like to
correspond with Bulletin readers who could
furnish information regarding out-of-the-way
places in Australia, especially the N.T. (To
William Shields, Jnr., 5868 De Liverville-
avenue, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.)
To buy, in good condition, official publica-
tion The Grasses and Fodder Plants of N. S.
Wales. —8856.
To buy, for cash, fishing cutter with well,
or yacht convertible to well boat, approx. 45ft.
S.A. advertiser. —8872.
To buy Bairnsfather’s Fragments from
France. —8926.
Information Sought.
How many times have Fred Hennebcrry and
Ron Richards fought; where, when and with
what results ? —BBBB.
They have met six times, three contests
taking place at Sydney Stadium in 1933, and
three in Brisbane last year. Their first fight
was a draw. Richards won their second on a
foul in 13 rounds, and Hennebcrry the third
on points. Richards won the second Brisbane
bout on a foul in four rounds, but Henne-
berry decisively outpointed him in the other
two Queensland contests.
♦ * # 1*
What are Kingsford Smith’s main flights ?
—8913.
1928—San Francisco to Brisbane (7251 miles)
in 8 days 7hr. (83hr. 29min. flying time);
Richmond (N.S.W.) to Blenheim (M.L.) in
14|hr. (the first flight to M.L.); back in 23hr.
1929 —Australia to England in 12 days 2Hhr.
(record). 1930—England to Australia (solo) in
9 days 22hr. (record). 1931 —Australia to
England in control of the first Australian
National Airways’ air-mail, 23 days 14hr.
1933 —England to Australia (solo) in 7 days
4hr. 47min. (record). 1934 —Ninety Mile Beach
(M.L.) to Richmond in 13hr. 25min. (record);
Melbourne to Sydney in 2hr. llmin. (record);
Melbourne to Perth in lOhr. 22min. (record);
Perth to Sydney in lOhr. 20min.; Brisbane to
Oaklands (U.S.A.), 1935 —Flight to M.L.
from Sydney with air-mail in Southern Cross.
Had to turn back 600 miles from Australian
coast.
* * * *
What were the details of, the agreement
made in 1906 by Britain, France and Italy in
connection with Abyssinia ? —8867.
In the agreement signed in London on De-
cember 13, 1906, the three Powers undertook
to respect and endeavor to preserve the integ-
rity of Abyssinia, Article I providing for
their co-operation in maintaining “the political
and territorial status quo in Ethiopia.” Should,
however, the status quo be disturbed, the
Powers were to concert to safeguard their
special interests. The agreement also defined
boundaries and disposed of certain difficulties
which for years had delayed the construction
of the railway to Addis Ababa and beyond.
* * * *
Which Government, Theodore ( Qld .) or
Bruce-Page ( Commonwealth), was responsible
for the greater borrowing? —B74l.
No financial records are kept coinciding with
the term of office of any particular Premier or
Prime Minister. Theodore was Premier of
Queensland from October, 1919, to February,
1925, and during the period July 1, 1919, to
June 30, 1925, the public debt of Queensland
increased by £31,136,000 —from £65,253,000 to
£96,389,000. The Bruce-Page Government held
office from February, 1923, until October, 1929.
The debt for Commonwealth purposes in-
creased from £358,509,000 at June 30, 1923, to
£377,622,000 at June 30, 1929—a total of
£19,113,000.
* * * *
Names of books on suction-gas principles,
how can the principle be applied to the motor-
car, and where can I get details of a plant
or producer suitable for operating on a car ?
—8729.
Leading textbooks dealing with the subjects
mentioned are Rambush’s Modern Gas Pro-
ducers, Boole’s The Gas Engine, Dubbel’s High
Power Gas Engines and Goldington’s The Gas
Engine in Industry. The charcoal-burning gas
method of propelling an internal-combustion
engine seems more likely to be of practical
utility in Australia.
* * * *
(1) Which are the best and most durable
Australian timbers for building an auxiliary
ketch 40-50 ft. — i.e., for planking, ribs, knees,
stem and stern, keel, decking ? (2) How do
the Australian limbers compare with Indian
teak and English oak for durability ? (3)
ex P £ nsive ? (4) Is it plentiful? (5)
What is a good publication, not too technical,
on boat-building ?— 8685.
(1) Planking, spotted gum or flooded gum;
ribs, spotted gum; knees, tea-tree or brush
box; stem and stern, forest red gum or tea-
tree; keel, ironbark, grey gum or spotted gum;
decking, white beech, Queensland kauri, teak
or hoop pine. (2) Imported timbers mentioned
are rather more durable. (3) Native teak, about
455. per 100 super, feet; Indian teak, about
*7 ,P)r r * oa d of 50 cub. feet, which works out
at 140 s. per 100 super, feet. (4) As regards
local teak, no. (5) Most public libraries stock
books on the subject.
* * * *
\ i il n thinking of starting a business in
AA.tv. as a buyer and seller of fruit (not on
commission). For business reasons I desire to
t'ade under a title such as (place name) Fruit
service. (1) Will u be necessary to register
as a business ? (2) If so, where should I a PP‘T
for registration, and what are the fees . (i)
I would not be permanently established; would
this make any difference ? (4) If I use my
own name and not a title, would it be permis-
sible to carry on without being registered. (5)
What are the penalties for breaches of the laws
governing such matters ? —8690.
(1), (2) and (4) Every person carrying on
business, “or having any place of business under
any firm name consisting of or containing any
name or addition other than the full or usual
name of that person,” must register with the
Registrar-General, Chancery-square, Sydney, a
statement in writing containing particulars.
Department will forward a form if requested
by letter with postage enclosed. (3) The
Registrar-General should be informed of any
change. (5) The penalty for default in regis-
tering is £2 for the first and £5 for any sub-
sequent offence.
♦ * * *
What is the litre measure ? How is it used
in medicine ? —8857.
The unit of capacity in the metric system of
weights and measures, a litre is equal to 35.196
fluid ounces —approx. pints. In the official
8.P., a cubic centimetre (the thousandth part
of a litre) is shortly designated a mil, a deci-
mil and a centimil being one-tenth and one-
hundredth of a mil respectively. In prescrip-
tions, a litre is written 1000.0; the mil, deci-
mil and centimil being represented by 1.0, 0.1
and 0.01. In converting for Imperial measures,
a mil for ordinary purposes may be taken as
equivalent to 15 minims, though as a matter
of fact it is nearer 17 minims.
* * * *
Fifteen years ago I was presented with a
book, “Tlx Secrets of Success in Life," by
Waller Wynn. Is anything known about the
writer ? —B9ll.
Walter Wynn is a Baptist minister, and since
1920 has been editor of the “British Man
and Woman.” He was born at Cheltenham in
1865, and has toured the U.S.A. and South
Africa lecturing and preaching. He is also
author of The Bible and the War, What Will
Come to Pass, The Last and Next War and
Man and the Universe.
* * * *
How did the name “parson’s nose" come to
he applied to the rear end of table poultry ?
8687.
There is an oil gland at the root of the tail
on the upper part, used by the fowl for oiling
its feathers. If this is accidentally eaten its
repulsive taste and odor cause a wry face.
This circumstance, in conjunction with the shape
of the bird’s tail, became associated with par-
sons who nosed into the affairs of their poorer
parishioners, particularly in connection with
household management and waste of food.
* * * *
Cause of yellow jaundice, and is it con-
tagious ? —8722.
Jaundice is an acute catarrhal inflammation
of the mucous membrane of bile ducts and
the duodenum, and is characterised by gastro-
intestinal derangement, fever and yellowness
of the skin. The latter is due to absorption
of the coloring matter of the bile and its cir-
culation in the blood. Whatever obstructs or
prevents the flow of bile into the intestines ulti-
mately gives rise to jaundice. The trouble
may also occur as a symptom of chronic or
acute inflammation of the liver. Non-obstruc-
tive jaundice may be caused by toxic absorp-
tion into the blood. Neither form is infec-
tious.
* * * *
What is a papilloma ? Is local treatment
effective for removal ? —8799.
A form of tumor that consists of a
covering of epithelium, or outer skin, enclos-
ing a central core of connective tissue con-
taining small blood vessels. The growth may
be insignificant, as in the case of ordinary
skin wart. Papilloma of the bladder is a
serious development in most cases. Occasion-
ally, especially in papilloma of the tongue,
a malignant change takes place in the tissue
cells. If causing any inconvenience, the simple
form of papilloma is best removed under a
local anaesthetic; that of the bladder may be
destroyed by the electric (diathermic) cautery.
In extreme cases, operation for removal may
be necessary. Papilloma of the tongue should
be destroyed by diathermy or excised.
* * * *
Cause and remedy for a very red nose, not
due to excessive drinking? —B67l.
Nervous gastric faults and flatulence con-
tribute to redness of the nose, and exposure
to weather extremes aggravates the trouble in
fair-haired people. Curtail condiments and
heating foods, and sip a glass of hot water
first thing each morning. Take an alkaline
bismuth-and-soda mixture before meals if
acidity is pronounced. A useful formula is:
Carbonate of bismuth 4 drachms, heavy car-
bonate of magnesia Hoz., oil of peppermint
10 minims, bicarbonate of soda to 4oz. Dose,
a level teaspoon in a wineglass of water 15
minutes before the morning and evening meals.
For local treatment, bathe the face night and
morning with tepid oatmeal water, and after
drying dab with liquid witch-hazel.
* * * *
Remedy for deficiency of red corpuscles in
human blood ? —8662.
Examination with blood count, etc., is neces-
sary for exact diagnosis. Treatment depends
upon- the cause. The approximate life of a
red corpuscle is 10 days—it is subsequently
destroyed in the spleen, which organ is con-
cerned in functions of both pancreas and liver.
For this reason, the spleen demands attention
m cases of the kind—it largely controls the
output of _ red and white corpuscles in the
blood. Liver extract and its derivatives are
prescribed in the treatment of pernicious
anaemia. Medical advice should be taken as to
diet.
*** . *
Is there an old-time name for ordinary soap
etc7-dl3 ° W “ 116 laUer prepared; its "™s.
It is, or was, widely known as opodeldoc.
Constituents are r Soft soap 20z., camphor loz.,
oil of rosemary 3 drachms, distilled water 4|
fl. oz., and alcohol (90 per cent.) to yield 25
fl. oz. Dissolve the soap, camphor and oil of
rosemary in 15 fl. oz. of alcohol; add the water,
and then the remainder of the alcohol. Allow
to stand for seven days, then filter. It is an
old-established domestic remedy for stiffness
and sprains. As a cleansing agent it is em-
ployed in the removal of scabs, particularly the
crusts of impetigo.
* * * *
Nature, cause and treatment of mastoid
abscess ? —8791.
As its name implies, such an abscess involves
the mastoid process and its cells in an infective
congestion from the middle ear. Owing to its
susceptibility to a general sepsis and its
proximity to the brain and other important
structures, symptoms demand immediate medical
attention. With catarrhal colds, influenza, etc.,
infection of the tympanic cavity or middle car
is a somewhat common occurrence, especially
in debilitated subjects. This area communicates
directly with the mastoid cells ; a chronic
mastoiditis originates in the localised infection.
* >K * *
(1) At what temperature are golf-ball covers
vulcanised ? (2) Is the paint on the cover
sprayed on and baked ? If so, at what tem-
perature ? (3) Is the paint used obtainable in
retail shops? —B73l.
(I) Covers are made of gutta-percha, vulcan-
ised rubber or a balata composition. They are
moulded on to the core by heat and pressure.
A special mixture containing a small amount
of sulphur and a vulcanising accelerator is
generally used. One method is to vulcanise
under pressure for some five minutes or so at
a temperature of slightly over 200 deg. F. This
treatment is at times followed by a cold-cure
process, with, for example, solutions of sulphur
chloride in benzol. (2) Sometimes the paint is
spread on, and at other times it is put on by
dipping machines. The lacquer used is gener-
ally of the cellulosic amyl-acetate type, and
dries fairly rapidly at slightly elevated tempera-
tures. (3) Yes.
* * * *
(1) How many shires are there in N.S.W. ?
(2) How many municipalities? (3) Name of
largest shire ? (4) When does a town become
entitled to elect a municipal council ? (5)
Approximate revenue of the N.S.W. shires
p.a. ? —8594.
(1) 139. (2) 174. (3) Lachlan; 5883 sq. m.
(4) Under Section 17 of the Local Govern-
ment Act it is provided that a new municipality
shall not be constituted (except by union of
areas) unless it contains a population of at
least 3000 and has an average density of popu-
lation of at least one inhabitant per acre.
Furthermore, the unimproved capital value of
all rateable land included therein must be such
that a general rate of 3d. in the £ will yield
an annual income of not less than £3OOO.
A copy of a memorandum setting out the
procedure for the formation of a new munici-
pality has been posted. (5) The revenue of all
shire councils for the year ended 31/12/’32
was £2,636,550. The information for that
year is the latest readily available.
* * * *
How to renovate an oil painting that has
grown discolored and dusty in appearance ?
8880.
Remove the canvas from the frame; wipe
the surface with a soft, clean rag, and sweep
away the dust from the crevices at the back
with a brush. Then sponge the canvas lightly
over with warm water (no soap), using a
clean rag for this purpose. The water must
not be slopped on the canvas, and only enough
should be used to enable the rag to glide
smoothly without causing scratches and smears.
Wipe off the surface moisture and leave for
24 hours to dry. The surface is then given
an even coat of good mastic varnish, in a
warm room, and after a few days the picture
may be returned to its frame.
* * * *
What is the average life of a steam boiler ?
—8874.
Depends upon the type of boiler and the
degree of care with which it is handled. Lan-
cashire and Cornish boilers last about 30
years, although there are cases where Lan-
cashire boilers have lasted 50 years. Water-
tube boilers (subject to a good deal of re-
tubing) may last 20 to 25 years. Marine
boilers, if properly treated and taken care of,
should last at least 20 years under forced
draught and 25 years under natural draught.
* * * *
How should I set about transplanting fan-
leaf palms from a swamp ? —8894.
Get all the root-growth possible and give
regular watering for weeks. Also cut off all
leaves at planting-time; mix decayed leaves
and sand with the soil about the palms. You
will have better success if small palms are
used for transplanting.
* * * *
In the Marshall portable engine a pipe runs
from the bottom of the steam-jacket surround-
ing the cylinder, and enters the boiler near the
water level. What is its object ?— 8787.
Its function is to convey the condensed water
from the steam-jacket back to the boiler.
* * * *
Where did the saying “There is a marshal’s
baton in every soldier’s knapsack” originate ?
—8907.
It is a variant of Napoleon’s “Every French
soldier carries in his knapsack the baton of a
marshal of France.”
* * * *
Treatment for Christmas-bush shrubs which
are making poor growth, the flowers falling?
Last year I had similar trouble. Will it hurt
to manure them; if so, when ? —8877.
Faulty drainage will cause the flowers to fall.
In their bush state Nature provides the get-
away of surplus water, since the Christmas
bush is nearly always found on stony ridges
or sloping hills. Well-rotted manure mixed
with sand and decayed leaves and worked
into the surface at the base is an aid to
native shrubs. A thorough soaking with clean
water once a week in hot weather will stimulate
growth. This treatment should build up the
shrubs and ensure good flowering next year.
* * * *
What is the cause of nasturtiums making
abundance of leaves and few flowers? Can
these plants be propagated by cuttings ?
8900.
Overrich soil and too much water cause
leaf-growth at the expense of blooms. The
addition of sand around the plants will tone
down the growth. Cut away a lot of the
leaves and withhold the water, especially where
rains are prevalent. Short pieces of the run-
ners which have flowered placed in seed-boxes
or pots in a glass frame will take root, and
can be set in the open ground in about six
weeks.
Brief Answers.
H.D.: Bulahdelah is a N.S.W. aboriginal
place-name meaning “meeting of the waters.”
C.C.: The Melbourne Cup in 1915 was
won by Patrobas (7st. 61b.), with Westcourt
(7st. 41b.) second and Carlita (Bst. 51b.) third;
time, P.L.J.: T. R. Bavin was
Premier of N. S. Wales from October 18,
1927, to November 3, 1930 A.T.S.: Write
Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Syd-
ney A.T.: Plays which achieved runs of
over 1000 continuous performances on the
London stage are: “Chu-Chin-Chow,” 2238;
“Charley’s Aunt,” 1466; “The Beggar’s
Opera,” 1463; “Our Boys,” 1362; “The Maid
of the Mountains,” 1352; “The Farmer’s
Wife,” 1329; “A Little Bit of Fluff,” 1241;
“A Chinese Honeymoon,” 1075; and
“Romance,” 1049 A.S.: Bruce Marshall
was born at Edinburgh on June 24, 1899.
His books include This Sorry Scheme, The
Stooping Venus, Tea-cup Terrace, The Other
Mary, And There Were Giants, The Little
Friend, High Brows, The Rough House, Father
Malachy’s Miracle, Prayer for the Living and
Uncertain Glory G.L.; Instructions on
caponising are usually sold with the instru-
ments for the process. The N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department can supply a leaflet giving
particulars A.M.0.: Dymock’s or N.S.W.
Bookstall Co. —both Sydney C.D.A.: (1)
and (2) Suitable vacancies occur rarely. Best
plan would be to canvass leading island traders.
(3) From Department of the Interior, Canberra,
F.C.T A.L. : See article “Some Notes on
the Production of Shark Skin Leather,” by
F. A. Coombs, in the “Australasian Leather
Trades Review” for July 14, 1928 A.S.G.:
Records of births and deaths in New York
State began in 1880; but write to the City
Health Department, 505 Pearl-street, New
York... .R.S.E.: (1) There is no scope in Aus-
tralia for even outstanding ability in wall-
paper pattern-designing (either drawing or
coloring). In the U.S.A. and European
countries this work is highly specialised, and
it is practically impossible for an outsider to
break in. (2) Chamber of Manufactures, Syd-
ney, for contact with manufacturers abroad.
Chances are not bright. Do not waste effort
unless you are quite sure you have something
original and of sound technique to sell
5.8.: The worm described is that known as
the stomach worm (Hcemonchus contortus), and
the treatment recommended is Milestone and
mustard. Full information will be found in a
departmental pamphlet which has been posted
to y0u....J.5.: Angora rabbits may be kept
only within the Counties of Camden and
Cumberland in N.S.W. A penalty up to £lOO
is provided for any person keeping rabbits out-
side the two counties... .W. 5.8.: (1) Depends
upon the system selected. (2) The Skinner
Wave Spray. (3) A single line oscillator of
this type would distribute the water over a
60ft. length of pipe and about the same dis-
tance in width... .R.F.F.: Any of the bird-
fanciers who advertise in the Sydney and Bris-
bane daily papers E.N.G.: Spray the plants
when in fruit with some such deterrent as
quassia water, using loz. of quassia chips to
a quart of boiling water. Spray when cold.
J.N.: It would be necessary for a veteri-
narian to examine the mare to make a diag-
nosis and, if necessary, place the horse under
a general anaesthetic to adopt surgical measures.
. ...H.K.: In the absence of a knowledge of
the cause of this and allied conditions, a sys-
tem of prevention cannot be worked out. So
far as treatment is concerned, the application
of a little olive oil daily will do much to effect
a speedy cure... .H.D.: See latest issue of
the Commonwealth Official Year-800k. ...
J.D.: The following Australians have run 220
yards in even time or under: Nigel Barker
(1905), E. W. Carr (1922), N. J. Grehan
(1923), J. A. Carlton (1930), N. Dempsey
(1933), H. S. Yates (1934) and T. E. Hamp-
son (1934)... .T. 0.: He would have to be
articled to a solicitor (not possible at his
present age) and pass examinations on the
various branches of law during the term of his
articles, extending over five years. Write to the
secretary of the Queensland Law Society,
National Mutual Chambers, Queen-street, Bris-
bane, for detailed information J.D. (Narro-
mine): Manual of Cyanidation, by Hamilton
(245.), Stamp Milling and Cyaniding, by
Thompson (245.) and Cyanide Process, by
Chennel (425.) A.F.: William Swainson’s
New Zealand and Its Colonisation (1859) is
worth about £1 15s 5.8.: Full information
is obtainable on personal or written applica-
tion to the Under-Secretary for Lands, Cathe-
dral-avenue, Perth C.W.T.: (1) Curtis
Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, London, W.C.2.
(2) Brandt and Brandt, 101 Park-avenue, New
York. (3) Napier, Gardiner and Co., 79
Pitt-street, Sydney. (4) Generally 10 p.c. on
sales effected... .J.T.: The Piltdown skull was
discovered in 1912 at Piltdown, Sussex, and
ascribed to man of early Paleolithic times....
S.W.: Load-waterline is the line that would
be made round the shell of a vessel when
loaded as deep as the minimum freeboard
regulations permit C.S.J.; Werrungup means
“a watering-place”; Knongletup, “call of the
swan”; Cullamine, “place of fire”; and Turndi-
jap, “a small spring”—all are W.A. aboriginal
place-names... .E.A.E.: Linseed oil is not a
suitable medium for a paving paint; it is
subject to saponification from the alkali in the
cement, and does not dry sufficiently hard. It
would be practically impossible for an amateur
to prepare a red paving paint from linseed oil
and dry pigment. The tung oil used in the
composition of a good paving paint is specially
treated with hard-wearing gums, tanked and
matured, and the pigments are ground into this
varnish with heavy machinery. Buy a stan-
dard make of floor and paving paint.
A.C.; Try W. C. Penfold and Co., 88
Pitt-street, Sydney... .F.L.G.: Hoadley’s
Chocolates, Ltd., Gawler-street, Adelaide, may
have such a machine. Get in touch with them.
H.B.: Magpies are protected in N.S.W.;
therefore the use of poison baits could not be
recommended, as these or other protected birds
might be poisoned. Shotgun, trap or snare might
be used against the white cockatoos. The Birds
and Animals Act is administered by the Chief
Secretary’s Department R.8.L.: Apply to
the Department of Agriculture, Raphael-street,
Sydney, for particulars regarding the registra-
tion of your premises under the Dairy Indus-
try Act... .T.P.: The play “Miracle at Verdun”
was written by Hans Chlumberg; English trans-
lation by Edward Crankshaw D.C.H.; Ivy
Shilling, the dancer, was born at Melbourne.
Her first important London appearance was at
the Empire Theatre, May 4, 1915, with Fred
A. Leslie in “Watch Your Step” K.W.:
In America the term “bus boy” or “bus girl”
means a servant who goes round the tables at
an eating-house and removes trays and plates.
• ... .(Many others mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
hear no relation to any living
person. ]
Chapter X.
I.
THE Old Man had sold Sweetheart. He had sold
her to Councillor MacLeary. Dave and Sam
Jordan had been silting on the front steps of
O'Brien’s Hotel the day before Scorby’s visit when
Councillor MacLeary’s big sedan drew up and the
councillor got out. He was a big man, and Dave and
Sam moved aside slightly to let him through.
“ ’Day, Dave.”
“ ’Day, Arthur.”
The councillor paused on the footpath, took off
his panama hat and wiped the leather band inside
with his handkerchief.
“Too hot for September,” he suggested, “and this
rain won’t do any good.”
“Nuh.”
“If we get much more of it the river will flood.”
“Doesn’t need much more.”
“Looks as though there’s going to be more, too.”
“Yeah.” Dave removed his pipe and leaned for-
ward so that the tobacco juice from his mouth dripped
neatly between his feet. He was wondering why
Arthur MacLeary, who had never liked him since they
threw stones at each other at school, should be want-
ing to talk to him.
“That’s a nice little mare you’ve got out at your
place,” MacLeary presently said. “Bit long in the
barrel, but there’s no doubt she’s a nice bit of work.”
A gleam came into Dave’s eye like the gleam of
a wet road at night.
“Yeah,” he said genially. “I been lettin’ the boys
muck round with ’er, trainin’ ’er for the Mudger’s
Flat races, an’ they got their shirts on ’er.”
The councillor shook his head decisively.
“Wouldn’t stand a chance. Hasn’t got the
stamina. Might be able to train her for a lady’s
saddle horse. She’s only young.”
Dave nodded. “Yeah,” he said. “Only we ain’t
got no ladies t’ train ’er f’r. Ha! ha!” He laughed
appreciatively. “But she’s sweet-tempered orright.
Ella can ride ’er as good as anyone. Y’ can put
that youngest kid o’ mine, Jacky, on ’er back an’
she won’t move an inch.”
“Good,” Councillor MacLeary said briskly.
“There’s a niece of mine coming up from Sydney, and
she’s very keen on riding. She wants a horse. There’s
nothing out at my place that’ll suit her. How much
do vou want for the little chestnut?”
Dave looked at Sam and Sam looked at Dave.
“Make it twenty quid.”
The councillor laughed. “All right. Have your
little joke.”
“Say fifteen. She’s worth it.”
“Seven,” snapped the councillor. “Will you or
won’t you? 1 have to see a man —have an appoint-
ment with him —and he won’t wait while I stand here.”
“Make it twelve, Arthur.”
“Seven. When can you bring her over to my
place?”
Dave knew he was beaten. He thought carefully.
He would have to pick a time when none of the
boys would be home. Larry would probably raise
hell, but his old father knew’ best. They couldn’t
afford to have an unnecessary horse out there eating
its head off.
“ ’Ow about t’-morrer afternoon?”
“Right. Hand the horse to Thompson and he’ll
have the cash.”
MacLeary passed into the hotel.
“Larry’ll give v’ murder,” Sam Jordan
suggested. “I thought she was ’is ’orse?”
“She was,” Dave agreed blandly. “She was ,
Sam.” He assumed the airs of a patriarch. “But
'e's got t’ remember that while ’e’s livin' at 'ome
'e’s got t’ do as ’is father says. When ’e likes t' go
out an’ find ’imself some work, then ’e can 'ave 'orses
all over the place eatin’ more than the rest uv us
put together. Chaff an’ then more chaff, bags of it.
An’ ’im siltin’ there, sissin’ to ’er, an’ rubbin’ ’er
with a brush, an’ Bill hangin’ over the fence all day
watchin’ ’im. Nothin’ but a nuisance that ’orse’s
been. Won’t even let me touch it! Raves as though
’e was in among the thistles if y’ even go near it.
I’m doin’ ’im a good turn, if ’e only knew it.”
“Money’s pretty tight,” Sam said, rubbing his
hand over the grey stubble of his chin. He looked
at Dave out of the corner of his eye, wondering if
this was the right time to put his own little proposi-
tion to him. Should he wait until Dave had spent
the money from Sweetheart? Perhaps it would be
wiser. He knew Dave would not dare go home after
selling Sweetheart, and he also knew he would keep
away from O’Brien’s, because the boys would be
looking for him there.
Dave delivered Sweetheart on Thursday after-
noon, and Thursday evening all his cobbers rallied
round when Sam put the word around that Dave had
come into money.
On Friday morning Sam went for a walk along
the railway lines at the back of Alister’s Hotel, and
there he found Dave, swaying uncertainly on his feet
and being sick at intervals in a slow, reflective and
philosophic style. From this and the straws on his
coat Sam deduced that Dave must have spent the
night in Alister’s stable, and also that he must still
have money on him. Therefore Sam took him by the
arm and silently led him into the bar, where he
ordered two brandies.
“It’ll jus’ show y’,” Dave said gloomily. “I ain’t
been sick for years, an’ I thought I’d got past the
stage. Leave it t’ these young fellers that drink
’cause they’re thirsty. But,” he shook his head, “seems
1 ain’t, after all.”
“ ’Ave y’ seen Larry yet? He was in last night
lookin’ f’r y’.” Sam glanced at Dave sideways. He
looked pretty sick ; but it might only be the effect
of the drink.
The councillor paused.
T . ~
“No, Dave said weakly. No, lam t seen im.
Them boys stick together too damn much, he added
reflectively.
Sam decided that the moment had come to pu
The Proposition. In a low mumble he delivered what
was probably his longest speech for years,
“You need someone to live out your place, see?
One of y’r own cobbers. Them boys couldn t put it
over y’ then, see? Need a man with a bit o money.
He leant closer and closer to Dave. Tell y some-
thin’. I got a ’undred an’ sixty pound m the bank.
This was the second funny thing that had hap-
pened in two days to Dave. First, he had quite
miraculously sold a horse ; and now there was Sam,
his old friend Sam, proving himself the hard case
that Orry Smith always swore he was, without as
much as winking an eye A hundred and sixty
pounds! Dave shook his head affectionately. Good
old Sam! A great pal and a real hard case. He
be a help at the hut.
“That’s true,” he agreed warmly, Sam
feebly on the shoulder. Need someone at the cm .
No respec’ f r their father- No grattude fr wf/
’e’s done f’r They re good girls, good boys,
every one o’ them. He shook his head. But th y
ain’t got no real grat tude. .
Dave realised that he badly needed help ,n the
coming interview with the boys. The idea ot Sam
coming to live at the hut looked well. Sam quietly
drew a bankbook from his pocket and ported to
the balance. Daves eyes bulged, and he wiped h
moustache. Sam hadn’t been lying. He had a hundred
and sixty pounds. Dave finished his brandy at a
gulp. The skies were raining money.
“Ella’s a nice girl,” Sam said reflectively. “I
used to think young Mary was the nicest, but I guess
it’s Ella. I knew that hundred an’ sixty’d come in
’andy.” He nudged Dave cunningly in the ribs.
“Mow’d I look as a son-in-law, see?”
“Haw, haw, haw!” Dave guffawed. The idea
of Sam, with his yellow, broken teeth, his big tobacco-
stained mouth and grey, unshaven face, fancying Ella!
Then the guffaw vanished. After all, Sam did have
the hundred and sixty.
“She’s a good girl,” Dave said slowly. “A very
good girl. Let’s take a few bottles of beer each an’
go out.”
They strolled round to O’Brien’s, where Blasted
was still standing tied to the fence where he had been
left at noon the day before. His nose was three
inches away from a succulent clump of grass, but
he had been tied in such a fashion that it was impos-
sible for him to reach it.
“Give the ’orse a drink,” Sam suggested.
“What for?” Dave climbed into the sulky. “’E
can gel a drink when we git there.”
On the slow journey out they came to terms. Ella
was to go to Sam ; Sam was to stay at the hut, and
the hundred and sixty was to be handed to Dave at
the end of six months if everything was satisfactory,
that everything including the peasey hut and Ella.
They finished most of the beer during the negotiations,
so that, by the time the beer and brandy had mingled
and the prospective bridegroom and his prospective
father-in-law had reached the hut, they were ready to
face a battalion. They held each other steady as they
got out and sniggered in the faces of their relatives.
“Where’s Larry?” Dave asked foolishly.
“He’s gone.” Jim’s face was grim.
“Where’s ’e gone t’?”
“Don’t know.”
Jim had gone to Councillor Mac Leary the night
before with an offer to buy back Sweetheart for
whatever the councillor had paid. He had explained
that his father had misunderstood. Sweetheart was
Larry’s horse. The councillor had been indignant
with Dave,
“A rotten trick to play on anyone. I’m sorry for
your brother. Very sorry, indeed, that this has
happened.”
“We’d take it out in loads of wood,” Jim con-
tinued patiently. “Or work it out; or, if y’ like, we
can pay y’ cash at the end of a week, when Paul can
get an advance on ’is wages.”
“Afraid I couldn’t do it.” The councillor was
adamant. He knew he had a bargain. Jim was shown
out firmly after further argument.
Dave rolled into the hut; Sam followed, grinning.
“Brought Larry a present.” Dave placed the remain-
ing bottles of beer shamefacedly on the table.
“What’re y’ all lookin’ at? Aren’t y’ pleased to see
y’r old father?”
Jim motioned Bill to follow, then went out
without a word.
“You damn’ ol’ swine,” Mary said angrily. Larry
was her favorite.
“You shut y’r mouth,” Dave responded, “before I
knock it shut.”
His face looked puffy and ugly. His eyes were
dangerous.
“I’ve got a word t’ say t’ you, my girl.” He drew
a crumpled letter out of his pocket. “I s’pose y’
don’t know what this is? Letter from the Child
Welfare Depar’ment.” He flung it in a rage on the
table. “Ain’t I got enough trouble,” he roared, “with
them stickybeakin’ round ’ere gettin’ me up before
the Court without you well writin’ t’ them
askin’ them t’ send the endowment money f’r the kids
t’ y’r rotten Jim?” His voice had risen to a bellow.
“Because y’r father was spendin’ it on drink. Jus’
like that! Spendin’ it on drink!”
“He, he, he,” giggled Willie. He backed behind
the door apprehensively. Mary looked sullen. Dave
was clumsily trying to unfasten the heavy brass buckle
of his belt.
“Come ’ere!” he said. “I’ll teach y’t’ slander y’r
father! I’ll teach y’!” He swung the belt, stagger-
ing. “You come ’ere.”
Sam grinned at Mary and winked at Ella.
“You let me alone,” Mary screamed in angry
alarm. She seized a chair and held it before her as
she made for the door, “Don’t you dare touch me.”
Dave swung the belt again viciously, and Mary
dropped the chair and ran. She was crying with rage
as she fled across the open grass towards the Wil-
loughby shanty.
“An’ she can stay there,” Dave concluded. “She
can stay there with that black”
Jim had come into the room and he turned on
his father. “You shut up,” he said. “She’s a damn'
sight better woman than you’re a man.”
He seized an axe and went out again. Sam
winked at Ella.
Ella scowled. Dave and Sam began to realise
that they were unpopular. Lizzie stumbled into the
open with a bundle of dirty clothes and came back
for a kerosene-tin of hot water, which she lifted from
the stove as though it were a feather. Ella resumed
the washing-up of the breakfast things that lay in
a mess of half-cold grey water in a battered dish on
the table. . ? „
“May as well drink the beer before it gets ‘ot,
Sam suggested. “Chuck over a couple of cups.
“You’re nice ones,” Ella said sulkily, “not askin
anyone but y’rselves.”
“Well, bring y’rself a cup. Hey, Lizzie.”
“No,” said Lizzie, and went out again.
Ella perched on the edge of the table. Dave and
Sam sat one on each end of the bench while they
drank the beer. Sam beckoned Ella.
“Come over ’ere.”
“Won’t.” Ella giggled above her cup.
“Come on.”
“Won’t.”
“Come an’ sit next t’ me, an’ I’ll give y’ some-
thing.” He showed his teeth in a grin.
“What?” Ella giggled again.
“Never you mind.”
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family — Dave, a useless waster,
and his many sons and daughters—are the chief
of Tiburon’s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill.
Dave’s beer-drinking cronies include Orry
Smith and Sam Jordan, a sometime horse-
dealer (“and still up to a trick or two”).
Blue, Okker Slade and Denny the
Magsman are “travellers,” camped at the un-
employed shelter.
Bill Sorrell is the Anglican parson, and
“one of the best.”
The “respectable” element in the town is
anxious to rid Tiburon of its undesirables.
It includes Mrs. Darch (her husband is
“in corrugated-iron”), Mrs. Ilford (the bank
manager’s wife) and —against her better judg-
ment— Mrs. Blakely (small, timid and a
minor poetess).
Sergeant Moore supports the movement
half-heartedly, but Constable Scorby is all
for it.
At the end of last instalment Larry White
had just discovered Sweetheart, his racehorse,
missing. He suspects Dave of having sold her.


“Aw, go on. You ’aven’t got anything, really.”
“Oh, haven’t I?” Sam looked mysterious.
“What is it?”
Sam looked more mysterious. Dave grinned. He
gave Ella a push in the direction of Sam. Sam seized
her wrist, and drew her down reluctantly beside him.
“Well, what is it, now I’m ’ere?”
Sam fished in his pocket with one hand, keep-
ing the other firmly round Ella’s waist, though she
wriggled uneasily. He drew out a piece of tissue-
paper. Ella grew still and breathed heavily through
her nose in an interested way.
Sam shook the twist of paper because he did not
want to let go Ella’s waist, and there fell into the
pool of grey dishwater a shiny ring with a diamond
in it. Ella reached out for it, but Sam had his hand
there first.
“What do I get for it?”
The two men screamed with laughter as he kissed
her, while she giggled uneasily.
A shiny ring with a diamond in it.
Ow'd y’ like to marry ’im?” Dave suggested
jocularly. “Make a fine ’usband, Sam would.”
The giggle stopped. Ella sprang up in alarm.
“Not on y’r life,” she cried. “I wouldn’t ’ave ’im
as a gift.”
“Give back the ring,” Sam commanded. “Come
on then ; give it back.”
It was a large, flashing diamond, too large and
flashing to be real.
“’E’s got a hundred an’ sixty pounds in the
bank,” Dave put in.
Ella’s eyes widened. It was a fortune to her;
then she shook her head determinedly.
“I won’t,” she said apprehensively. “1 tell y’, I
won’t! I ’ate ’im! The ugly grinnin’ ape!”
Sam was offended and showed it, but Dave
endeavored to smooth matters over.
“She’s only young,” he said huskily. “She'll come
round. She’s young, an’ she don’t know where ’er best
interests lie yet.”
11.
That week-end was notable, not only for Ella’s
finally agreeing to marry Sam, but also for Councillor
Mac Leary’s discovery that his short ownership of
Sweetheart was at an end. Sweetheart vanished as
mysteriously from the Mac Leary stable as Larry had
vanished from the White shanty. Only Jim, Bill and
Paul could have told which way the two had gone,
what color the little chestnut had assumed and how
Larry had become attached to a traveller named
Kirby who was making towards the Darling and
had four horses with him. Kirby was thirty miles
from Tiburon when he was joined by his old friend
Larry and a horse. Larry had altered and the horse
had altered ; but in the horse trade that was not such
an extraordinary occurrence. For a long time Larry
vanished out of Tiburon’s ken, though there were
frequent rumors that a winner at many a well-run
country race-meeting was in reality Sweetheart.
“I hate a stupid crime,” Scorby said as he drove
back the sergeant after doing all that was possible to
quiet the infuriated Mac Leary. “This was a very
intelligent one. And it serves our ends. We’ve lost
one of the Whites, anyway.”
“But we haven’t got the horse back,” his chief
reminded him.
“We will. And we’ll get rid of the Whites, too.”
“That remains to be seen,” said the sergeant, a
little doubtfully.
111.
The rector’s favorite saint’s day had always been
St. Michael and All Angels’. There was a triumphant
sound to it, a heavenly battle hymn and the shouts of
victory in the very name. When the rector said
“To-morrow will be the Feast of Saint Michael and
All Angels,” he said it with a brightening face, as
though he could hear them approaching down the
Tooramong Road in battle formation with their bright
lances lifted, and he standing there to welcome them.
Nobody, of course, came to the early-morning
service he held for St. Michael and his followers
except the faithful Polly, who hated getting up early,
and old George Shumac, who had not missed ringing
the bell for any service during the past twenty-nine
years, although he was so deaf he could scarcely
hear it. George was a clear-eyed old man, as sen-
sible as the bees in his own orchard; and he loved
coming to church, even though he could not hear
the prayers. He could sit and think about his boy,
his eldest boy, who was away fighting the Germans.
Not that the Germans were bad men —they were good
men led astray ; and his own boy had been led astray
to go so far from his father’s orchard, with its hives
of singing bees. They could never convince old
George Shumac that the war was over many years
ago, because, if the war had been over, his boy
would be back, and he was not back. It was non-
sense to talk about his being dead, and he would
come back some time, as the bees come back to the
hive.
So George Shumac sat at the end of the third
back row of empty seats at the Feast of Michaelmas
and watched the rector kneeling before the altar, and,
with his big, work-grained hands hanging loosely
between his knees, thought of his orchard, with the
apricots ripening and the golden bees going about
their business. He always thought of St. Michael
and his angels as a swarm of golden bees tracing busy
curves through the flowering of the stars. His was
a practical mind.
The rector was praying for his sins. Not those
he had committed, but those he was about to commit
and would continue to commit to his life’s
end. He particularly mentioned that he was
marrying Sam Jordan to Ella White that same
afternoon.
“You know that their life is something
like hell and that it will be worse than hell
after I marry them; and the rules of Holy
Church tell me that I must sanctify their union
in Your name. Forgive them, for they do not
know that their life is hellish and beastly, and
they are numb and blind to holiness. Now
forgive me that I have not been a better
shepherd to lead them into the
way of truth and beauty. And
forgive me if 1 am so fallen
away from Your grace that I
have dared to despise those who
are, as I am, made in Thy
image. I ask it in Thy name.”
And the rector rose with a
sigh and noticed that there was
dust on his white linen chasuble
where he had knelt; but he
could not blame Mrs. Pearson
for that, poor soul. Nowhere
in Tiburon was it possible to be
free from dust.
He looked round on the little church and won-
dered if it were possible that he had detested it
when he first came to Tiburon. Even the hole in
the one stained-glass window was dear to him. Of
course, he still, in an abstract way, disliked the light
oak of the seats and the cheap presentation furniture
and the red flannel kneelers; but those ugly wooden
walls enclosed something sacred to him, perhaps
because it was something of himself. Not St. Michael
had ever fought a sturdier victory than that which
had resulted in the two brass candlesticks on the altar.
Not the angels themselves, the rector felt, had ever
gone out in more grim formation than the little choir
on the day the rector held his first procession. It was
such a pathetic little procession, squeezing into the
back of the church and doing a quick about-turn in
the porch because there was not room for them all to
circle round the font'. But it had been a procession.
Would it be only victories such as these that he could
show to St. Michael if that saint should come striding
in the splendor of his armor and his strength down
the aisle? He had always felt that he should go out
into the highways and byways to bring in the strays
but the trouble was that he was tremendously shy.
If only he could go to the outcasts, the Warning Hills
of the world ; but he found it impossible.
“What’s up, Bill?” his wife asked as he sat down
to breakfast.
The rector could not fell her how much a failure
he felt himself to be. He picked out a concrete
problem because Polly liked concrete things.
“I don’t like the idea of this wedding. I can’t
refuse to marry them. I asked for the girl herself,
and gave her a serious talk, poor little fool, but I
don’t like it. Still, you know what marriages are in
this town.”
“Shut up and say nothing," said the wise Polly.
“It’s none of your business. You’ve never made a
fuss before, even when couples with about four
children have decided to turn respectable.”
“It isn’t that,” the rector said, gazing into his
porridge, as though it might offer a solution. “She’s
marrying him because she thinks he has money.”
“It’s done in all the best circles,” responded the
flippant Polly. “Julia Darch married Ben Harper for
the same reason, and you didn’t raise any lamenta-
tion.”
The rector frowned. “You’re right, Polly,” he
said. “I should have. But !am afraid 1 told myself
that Julia knew what she was doing.”
“I should jolly well say she did,” cried Polly,
“seeing she’d been hunting him for three years.”
“Whereas this girl hasn’t really had a chance.
She’s never been outside Tiburon, and couldn’t
imagine anything better if she wanted to. She has
no education, no real home life, no chance at all.
Ella’s only eighteen, and Jordan must be forty, if he’s
a day. The Whites are not really bad stuff. They're
hanging on to their patch of thistles and sand like
grim death. I’m afraid young Scorby has a tough
job ahead of him.”
“Lord knows why anyone should want to live at
Warning Hill when they could go somewhere else,”
his wife remarked.
“ ‘They sat by the River Euphrates and wept for
Jordan,’ ” the rector quoted.
“They probably did,” his wife replied; “but,
believe me, I wouldn’t weep for Tiburon. Why won’t
you go somewhere else. Bill? One word to Joe [“Joe”
was his bishop] and you could.”
“I wouldn t let it lick me,” said the rector quietly
between spoonfuls of egg. “It would be a poor sort
of farmer who would go and plough another field
because the one he had was stony.” And he sighed
to think how stony it was.
Chapter XI.
I.
CORRUGATED-IRON was Mr. Darch's specialty,
and Mrs. Blakely had to wait while he told the
man from Boglow, Ashton and Swift what he
thought of that last shipment of twenty-four gauge
which had mysteriously oxidised on its way to
Tiburon. Owing to the enterprise and industry of the
Darch side of the firm of Wallace and Darch,
General Merchants, the solid grey shining of the
Tiburon roofs was of uniform galvanised-iron. Once,
when Mrs. Blakely had ventured the opinion that tiles
were much prettier and not so glaring, Mr. Darch
had been as a high priest when the proselyte suddenly
spits on the sanctuary. If there were no corrugated-
iron to catch the rainwater on his roof, where would
the farmer be? If there were no tanks to hold the
water, where would the farmer be? The stability,
prosperity, wealth, happiness and livelihood of the
farmer depended on corrugated-iron. The background
of Australia was corrugated-iron.
Poor Mrs. Blakely, forlornly contemplating a
shiny easeful of shears and clippers, reflected that
Alfred Darch could not have done better than choose
ironmongery as a pursuit. There was something in
his rigid, angular face to suggest that the very best
Bubble brand ran liquid in his veins and had corru-
gated the smooth folds under his chin. The waves
of hair above his face had the solid grey of the very
best roofing. He had obviously no time to waste on
anything as soft as Mrs. Blakely; but he came
towards her with a professional smile.
“And what can I do for you, Mrs. Blakely? How
are the tiles?”
This was an old joke of his.
“Dr. Blakely meant to see you,” Mrs. Blakely
said confusedly, “about a man he has engaged to
build an addition to the garage. He has been con-
creting the cement path, and James said he has all
the specifications. That is correct, isn’t it? And to
put it on our bill and see he gets the right kind of
iron for the roof.”
Alfred sorted this out correctly, and his
corrugations broke into their very best brand of smile.
“Certainly, Mrs. Blakely, certainly.”
Mrs. Blakely was rather relieved to cross over
to the drapery department, where he so obviously
preferred to see her, and to price some little ninon
collars which would be the very thing to send for
Winifred’s birthday. “And yet,” thought Mrs. Blakely,
“poor Alfred Darch is just as much a poet in his own
way as I am. When he hears the rain beating on his
corrugated-iron, he has the same thrill to think of
air those millions of grey roofs dripping silver as I
have to hear a little tune singing in my mind. And
if it were a choice with Tiburon between our two
sorts of poetry,” she thought, “I am afraid all Tiburon
would want his.”
Mrs. Blakely loved Tiburon on Saturday, when
everyone was buying provisions for the week-end.
She refused to order her household goods by tele-
phone, preferring to work her way up Atkinson-street
like a slow, little black ant which finds it necessary to
go to the top of every grass blade on its way home.
She dropped in on all the busiest people, pausing to
order her special currant rolls and have a little chat
with Mrs. Perry ; meeting farmers’ wives in the street
Vanished from the stable.
and stopping to ask after Sylvia’s tonsils or Jimmy’s
sore knees ; nodding to this one and that one ; and
finally calling at the School of Arts, where she found
Jane Darch with Mrs. Trevor, the librarian. They
were talking about the Red Cross meeting on Thurs-
day, and Mrs. Blakely felt a little bit guilty because
she had forgotten to go. She hastened to ask for all
the details.
“And did you do anything about that poor man
who had cancer of the lip?” she inquired. “Old Mad
Peter, you remember, dear? It was brought up the
month before last, and we agreed to give a decision
at this meeting. And I am so sorry I wasn’t”
“No,” Jane Darch responded shortly, “we didn’t
do anything. When we brought the matter up, we
discovered that the cook at Alister’s Hotel had gone
round a fortnight ago and made a collection. The
Salvation Army captain took him to Sydney with the
money.”
“Rather insulting,” said Mrs. Trevor through her
adenoids. “The matter was referred to us by the
Methodist minister, and we being the correct body
(Continued on page 50.)


TRANSMITTING
CHANEX Condensers for
Amateur and Commercial
Broadcasting Stations are
manufactured in Oil-filled K.F.
“tank” types up to 200 K.Y.A.,
and in special types for Filter
Circuits.
f
CONDENSERS
DUCON-CHANEX Condensers are also made lor Power Factor Correc-
tion and Elimination of Radio Inductive Interference, in the most
extensive and up-to-date factory in the Southern Hemisphere. Leading
Australian Broadcasting Stations use Chanex Condenser equipment
exclusively.
Your Enquiries Are Invited.
DUCON CONDENSER Pty. Ltd
73-83 Bourke Street, Waterloo, Sydney. Tel.: MA6104-5.
T
o
/
BUY
TELA-VERTA
RAOJO
i oiava
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest,
EXCEPTIONAL
RADIO
OPPORTUNITY
A large Importer has been fortunate in being able
to indent from U.S.A. a few chassis of a remarkable
radio. Both 10-valve and 16-valve types are available
with a wave-length from 9 metres to 2400 metres.
The prices are very reasonable.
Further particulars from
RADIO, BOX 55A, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
RADIO NEWS
TELEVISION IN GERMANY.
Recent Progress.
Death of S. M. Grime.
BY
DON B. KNOCK .
Berlin is the first city in the world to
give free public demonstrations of tele-
vision. Four “viewing” rooms were re-
cently opened in thickly-popula.ed parts
of Berlin, and television programmes
are now given on three days a week.
The Reich Post Office had previously
opened a television booth at the Ministry
of Posts. Its success was instantaneous ;
in the first few days thousands of people
visited it, though there was accommo-
dation in the booth for only about 30.
The television receiver screens measure
about lOin. by 7in., so not more than
about 30 can see well at any one time,
though many more could hear the accom-
panying sound dialogue. The problem
was solved by admitting the public in
small batches.
When the four public television rooms
were opened with programmes given
after working hours, between 8.30 and
10 p.m.. the public response was almost
Germany’s latest in television receivers. The Fernseh A.-G.’s
combined sound and sight high-definition model. Only two
controls are needed for constant use, and a tuning scale is
unnecessary, as the two wave-lengths of the transmitter do
not vary.
(From “Practical Television.”)
equally enthusiastic, and the same de-
vice of admitting batches to a part of
the programme had to be adopted,
though these rooms admit up to 100
persons at a time. One evening the
viewing room was reserved for the
Hitler Youth. The boys had marched
to the room with banners flying and
headed by their band. They lined up
and were admitted in groups at intervals
of 20 minutes or so. Inside the tele-
vision room were rows of chairs, a big
portrait of Hitler flanked by swastika
banners, and the television apparatus.
The programme was followed with
great interest despite its simplicity com-
pared with the cinema. The first item
was a film showing mouth-organ and
accordion playing. The second, also a
film, showed scenes in the Bavarian Alps,
with music and folk-dancing in the vil-
lages. The third depicted an athletic
display which had taken place on the
same afternoon as the televising. The
images in the film transmissions were
fairly clear —about equal to the cinema
standards of 15 years ago.
A Hitler Youth leader with a know-
ledge of electrical engineering talked to
the boys while the demonstration was
in progress, explaining the process of
short-wave sound and picture broad-
casting and the radius of transmissions
in the present stage of development.
The technical side of television is in
the hands of the Post Office, and the
German Broadcast-
ing Company ar-
ranges the pro-
grammes. A trans-
mitting station for
television is main-
tained in the wire-
less tower of the
Witzleben station. In
addition to five
public receiver sta-
tions there is an ex-
perimental receiver
at Potsdam. Tele-
vision transmissions
received in Berlin
take place over an
average distance of
about eight kilo-
metres. At Potsdam
they are received
over a distance of
20 kilometres. Pro-
grammes have been
experimentally re-
ceived at a distance
of nearly 50 kilo-
metres.
Television takes place at Witzleben on
five days a week, but morning television
broadcasts are mainly experimental.
Direct Transmission.
Of the three forms of television —
film, intermediate film and direct trans-
mission—the Post Office experts appear
to have the greatest interest in the direct
method, which they regard as the one
most suitable for development. Their
direct-transmission system on the “scan-
ning” principle, with the use of 180-line
screens, is stated to be the only one
of its kind in regular public use, and out
of the laboratory stage. At present the
television pictures transmitted by this
system are limited to half-length por-
traits of the objects televised. These
Stanley M. Grime, assistant manager
of Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia), Ltd.,
died on the evening of 4/9/’35); and
this Page wants to join in the tributes
to his memory. He had been ill for
about two months, and was recuperat-
ing at Huskisson when he passed
away at the age of 48 years. S.M.G.
was well known and very popular in
radio, electrical and sporting circles. He
was an associate member of the Institu-
tion of Engineers (Aust.) and a member
of the Institute of Radio Engineers
(Aust.), chairman of the Radio Section
of the Chamber of Manufactures and
chairman of the Radio Branch of the
Standards Association of Australia. He
played a very important part in the
works production of Amalgamated Wire-
less.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions recently have been excellent
for reception. Several unusual broad-
casts have been heard, and still another
new regular broadcaster has appeared.
The 8.8. C. No. 1 transmission, now
on until 7.15 p.m., has been good up to
7 p.m., but weak after that hour. This
should soon improve. Radio Coloniale
has shown a little improvement at 6 p.m.,
but the 25.2 m, transmission has never
been as strong as 25.6 m. for some reason,
probably owing to a directional aerial.
A special broadcast from Budapest on
October 2 was first heard at 6.30 a.m.
on 26m. At 7 a.m. an announcement
was made in English; this was difficult
to understand, but apparently it was a
special transmission to U.S.A. from the
State Opera House. A lady singer with
a wonderful voice was encored re-
peatedly. Another new station has been
heard on 22m. about 1 a.m., often on
’phone, but the nationality is as yet un-
certain, the English being very broken.
This station asks for reports, and has been
on every night recently. The station
thought to be ORK (Belgium) on 29m.
has been on regularly, closing about
6.15 to 6.30 a.m. at fine strength.
On the morning of 6/9/’35 until about
8.30 a.m. a host of stations were audible,
but after that hour everything was dead
images are very clear, and appear to the
non-expert eye almost as good as the
film transmissions. , F
A more lively and diversified type ot
television programme is aimed at by the
German Broadcasting Company in me
future. One of its local aims is a pic-
ture news service, like the news films
of the cinemas. This will be carried out
by the intermediate film transmission
system. At present there are certain
technical weaknesses in this _ system,
chiefly owing to the speed with which
the films have to be prepared A him
of an object televised by the inter-
mediate system is developed within 30
seconds and is ready for transmission
within another 30 seconds.
until FYA arrived at 2.30 p.m. In the
31m. band before 7 a.m. there were
CTIAA, W2XAF and GSB all at excel-
lent strength, and between GSB and
W2XAF was another strong station, ine
language was unidentified, but this station
was most likely OXY. After 7 a.m.
GSC also commenced, and was much
stronger than GSB, but they all faded
down soon after 8 a.m,
ORK, Belgium, continued good, and
in the evening two D.E.I. stations on
27m. and 29m. have been at maximum
strength after 10.30 p.m. .
At 11 p.m. both GSG (16.8) and PHI
(16.88), were fair to good ; GSG showed
improvement, and news service from this
station has been 100 per cent. copy.
Early morning in the 25m. band has
found both 2RO and Radio Colomale
strong, with DJD weak and GSD lair,
RNE is also well audible. Nineteen
metres has been very good, with FYA
outstanding, but all stations have been
quite good strength. England has had
two stations on at once after midnight,
both good, but the old station, GSF,
has been strongest. The test transmission
at that hour on 49m. has been barely
audible.
Little time has been given to the higher
wave-lengths, as reception has been so
much better from 31m. down.
Radio Nations in the 31m. band was
excellent in the special weekly transmis-
sion for Australia at 6 p.m., being word
perfect.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
There is a decided lull in ultra-short-
wave tests in the Sydney district, and
erstwhile five-metre exponents can be
heard meanwhile airing themselves on
the 80-, 40-, 20- and even 10-metre
bands. In the writer’s case, _ u.-s.-w.
activity is dormant until something new
in receivers is developed. It was planned
to build a superhet on the lines of the
Gordon model (B. 9/10/’35), using
acorn valves, but design is delayed
until some new valves can be investi-
gated. With television on u.-s.-w.
channels in the offing, the super-
het type of receiver is inevitable, and
several ideas present themselves. Ama-
teurs contemplating u.-s.-w. superhels
should not overlook the advantages of
link-coupled intermediates. R.C.S. Radio
is now producing this type. The last
five-metre mobile test resulted in signals
from Bowral district being heard in
North Sydney. History repeats itself—
the other way round —for it was in 1927
that two Sydney amateurs, Lindsay and
Gray, heard five-metre signals from
North Sydney around Bowral.
On 10 metres big things are happen-
ing, and it is believed that Bischoff, of
VK2LZ, leads in points scored in the
international contest. He a
Frenchman on 10 metres on 6/10/’35,
with an R 6 report at 8 p.m. S.M.T.
This is a world’s record. The usual
complement of DX can be heard on
this band at odd hours, and W6VQ
seems to lead the Americans with strong
signals. According to results on this


NEW BATTERY
d
Radiol rons
They eliminate those ringing sounds which previously
spoilt your radio enjoyment. When selecting a battery
ARE NON-MICROPHONIC
operated receiver or replacing worn valves insist on the new non-microphonic noise reducing Radiotrons.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’sia) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney 167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne
(A DVE R T I SEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE COM PAN/ LIMITED)
once-maligned band, power—and plenty
it counts lor the DX contacts.
t-. .' , ' , .
IZIZT7
ccivcr of the Wide-World Two type, plus
doublets and Faraday screen. This
method of antenna coupling cannot be
too highly praised as being a means of
providing a noise-free coupling with the
advantage,of efficient energy transference
1 OLI oc mg the detector.
The Faraday screen has been dealt
with at length in “Radio” (U.S.A.), and
presents little difficulty in construction,
An easy method is to cut up one of
those old celluloid 3in. broadcast coils,
«„,. and cu. ,0 .he required size,
Wlth a properly-screened short-wave re-
ceiver and Faraday screen link-coupled
doublet the noise-reducing qualities are
astonishing. If dual-wave or all-wave
receivers were not factory-produced,
with an eye on cos t, manufacturers
would be doing listeners a real service
in designing sets so equipped,
VK2NO.
All Round the Dial.
Protests by the Melbourne
football clubs against the broadcasting
of descriptions during matches have evi-
dently borne fruit, for during the big
cricket matches this season there are to
be no more ball-to-ball broadcasts. The
scores are to be given at intervals, but
if people want the details of play they
will have to pay at the turnstiles. The
footballers complained bitterly about the
loss of revenue, blaming the broadcast-
ing ; but the attendances at matches be-
tween the leading clubs kept well up to
the average except, strangely enough, in
the case of the grand final. Those clubs
which suffered from poor gates were the
weak ones, whose matches don’t come
over the air.
* * * *
"Bokio ’: The decision of the nabobs
of the A.B.C. to curtail much of the
’’unnecessary detail ’ relative to weather
and market reports will be hailed with
shouts of joy by 99 p.c. of listeners,
What would be a weariness, of the flesh
to most of us listening to a 20-minute
drone on isobars at Broome and “fresh
(Continued on next page.)
SOME SHORT-WAVE BROADCASTING STATIONS AUDIBLE IN AUSTRALIA
(Times of transmission are liable to alteration)
Country. Name of Station. Callsign. Wave-length. Times (E.A.S.T.). Remarks.
Gt. Britain London (Daventry) OSD 25.53 3.15 p.m. —5.15 p.m. Good. Transmission 1
for Australasia.
News 4.15 p.m.
„ „ GSB 31.55 2.30 p.m.—4.35 p.m. Good. See daily papers.
.. „ „ QSO 16.86 9 p.m.—11.45 p.m. Very poor. Transmission 2
» .. » „ GSG 16.86 10.30 p.m.—11.46 p.m. for general re--
(Sundays only.) ception. GSF
.. .. „ „ GSF 19.82 10.30 p.m.—11.45 p.m. Fair. best about 11
(Sundays only.) p.m. News at
11.30 p.m.
» « ii ii GSF 19,82 M/n. —3 a.in. Fair.
ii ii „ „ GSG 16.80 M/n. —1.45 a.rn. Very poor. Transmission 3
i, ~ ~ „ GSF 25.29 M/n.—3 a.m. Good. for India,
ii i, i, „ GS'I) 25.53 2 a.m.—3 a.m. Fair. Burma, etc.
News at 2.30 a.m.
II •• I. „ GS'I) 25.53 3.15 a.m. —0.45 a.m. Fair. Transmission 4.
ii ii •• i, GSI 19.66 3.15 a.m. —5.18 a.m. Poor. Part 1 for Sth.
„ ~ ii ii GSB 31.65 • 3.15 a.m. —6.45 a.m. Fair. Africa. News
3.15 a.m.
ii „ n i, GSL 49.10 5.30 a.m.—6.45 a.m. Fair.
ii n ■■ n GSB 81.55 7 a.m,—8.45 a, in. Good. Part 2 for West
(Mondays close at Fair. Africa, West
7.45 a.m.) Indies, News 8
i, ii ~ i, GSF 19,82 7 a.m.—8.45 a.m. a.m.
i, n i, „ OSC 31.32 9 a.m.—ll a.m. Fair Transmission 5
to good. fo r Canada.
n I, I, „ OSD 25.53 9 a.m.—ll a.m. Fair. News at 10.45
a.m.
„ „ GSC 31.32 1 p.m.—2 p.m. Good. Experimental
transmission 6
for Canada on
ii ii „ „ GSD 25.53 1 p.m.—2 p.m. Good. Mon., Wed., Fri.
and Sundays.
News 1.45 p.m.
Germany Berlin (Eeesen) DJA 31.38 3.30 p.m.—5.30 p.m. Fair. D.IQ news at
4 p.m. for Far
East.
i, ~ ~ DJI? 19.74 0.45 p.m.—10.15 p.m. Fair. For Far East
and Southern
Asia.
„ „ ~ DJN 31.45 6,45 p.m.—10.16 p.m. Poor. DJB best about
9.30 p.m. News
7.30 and 10 p.m.
English.
„ „ ~ I>.JE 10.89 11 p.m.—2.30 a.m. Very poor. For Far East
and South Asia.
„ ~ DJQ 19.03 11 p.m.—2.30 a.m. Fair. News 11.45 p.m.
and 2.15 a.m.
„ ~ ~ DJB 19.74 11 p.m.—2.30 a.m. Fair to on DJE in
good. English and
DJQ.
„ ~ D.ID 25.49 3 a.m. —7.30 a.m. Fair. For Africa. Ro-
„ ~ ~ DJC 49.83 3 a.m.—7.30 a.m. Poor. ception best
„ ~ DJN 31.45 5 a.m.—7.30 a.m. Fair. about 0.30 a.m.
(DJN improves after News in English
1 p.m.) 5 a.ra. and
7.15 a.m.
„ ~ i, DJC 49.83 12.15 p.m.—1.30 p.m. Poor.
„ ~ DJA 31.38 8.15 a.m.—12.15 p.m. Fair to For America.
wards noon. DJD best from
12.30 p.m. on.
NOTE: All ses-
sions open with
„ ~ ~ DJI) 25.49 8.15 a.m.—> 1,30 p.m. Fair. German folk
song and close
with 2 National
Anthems.
~ Berlin (Konigs. DJQ 25.10 8 a.m. -8.45 a.m. Fair. For Sth. America
Wustcrhausen)
France Paris FYA 19.68 9 p.m.—l a.m. Poor. For Asia/Aus-
(Radio Oolouiule) tralasia. News
in Kngl i s li
10.30 p.m. Best
after 10 p.m.
„ „ ~ PYA 25.23 2 a.m.— S a.m. Good. For Africa.
„ „ „ FYA 25.00 9 a.m.—noon Fair. For America.
News in English
10 a.in.
~ „ „ FYA 25.00 1 p.m.—-3 p.m. Good. For America.
Music from 1.45
p.m. on. Note:
All sessions open
and close with
“Marseillaise.”
Holland Amsterdam PHI 25.57 6 a.m. 9 a.m. Fair For Dutch East
(Eindhoven) (irregular) Indies and Aus-
tralasia.
„ „ „ PCJ 19.71 10.30 p.m.-—1.30 a.m. Fair. Same programme
as PHI. Daily
„ ~ „ PHI 16.88 10.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. Fair. except Tues. and
Wed,
Belgium Brussels ORK 29.04 4.30 a.m. —6 a.m. Fair to For Belgian
(Kuysselede) good. Congo,
s'pairi Madrid (Aranjuez) EAQ 30.43 8.15 a.m.—10.30 a.m. Poor.
„ ~ ~ EAQ 30.43 4 a.m. —5.30 a.m. Fair to For general re-
( Sundays only.) good. ception.
'Country. Name of Station. Callsign. Wave-length. Times (E.A.S.T.), Remarks.
Portugal Lisbon CTIAA ;i 1.25 6.30 a.m.—9 a.m. Fair/good For Portuguese
(Weel., Fri. and Sun.) Col. Cuckoo
’ „ CTICT 24.83 M/n.—2 a.m. Monday chimes (3 times)
6 a.m.—7 a.m., Fri. Fair. at intervals of
approx. J hour.
i, Paredc CTIGO 24.20 1 a.m. —2.30 a.m., Mon.
4 a.m.—5.15 a.m.
(Wed., Fri. and Sat.)
Italy Rome 12110 31.13 5.45 a.m.—8.15 a.m. Fair. Gen. reception,
„ (Radio „ 9 a.m.—noon
~ Roma) ~ 25.40 11.15 p.m,—1.15 a.m. Fair. For Far East.
~ Vatican IIVJ 50.26 5 a.m. —5.15 a.m. .Pair. Talks in Italian.
„ City 11VJ 19.84 1.30 a.m.—1.45 a.m. Poor.
Switzer- Prangins 11.11. P. 38.48 8.30 a.m.—9.15 a.m. Poor,
land (Sunday only.)
„ (Radio URL 31.27 8.30 a.m.—9.15 a.m.
Nations) (Sunday only.)
3.15 p.m.—4 p.m.
(Monday only.)
Austria Vienna OER2 49.40 M/n. —8 a.m. Poor. Best about 6.30
a.m,
Denmark Copenhagen OXY 49.50 4 a.m. —10 a.m. Poor. Best about 6.30
(Skamlebaek) a.m.
Norway Oslo (Jeloy) LKJI 31.45 8 p.m.—ll p.m. Poor.
Russia Moscow RWS9 25.00 9 p.m. —10 p.m.. Sun. Fair.
(RNE) 1 a.m.—2 a.m., Mon. All sessions in
0 p.m.—lo p.m., Wed. English.
„ „ R.W59 25.00 0 a.m.—9 a.m., daily Good at Nows in English
(NE) 7 a.m. 7 a.m. on Mon.,
Tu e s., Thurs.
and Saturdays.
Siberia Khabarovsk RVVIS 70.20 4 p.m.—M/n. Fair. Best after 10.30
p.m.
Japan Tokio JVN 28.14 4.45 p.m.—5.15 p.m. Fair to News in English
(Komikawa) 6.45 p.m.—10.45 p.m. good. at 7.55 p.m.
.. „ JVII 20.55 3 p.m. —4 p.m. Fair.
Dutch Bandoeng PLP 27.27 8.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. Good Sundays only.
~ „ PMN 29.24 8.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. (irregular) „
East Indies (Bandoeng;
~ „ Tandjong Priok YD A 49.07 8.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. Irregular.
~ „ Bandoeng PMY 58.31 8.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. Fair after
M/n.
„ „ Solo YDL 62.00 8.30 p.m.—2 a.m. Fair after Native music.
M/n.
~ „ SourabaVa YDB 67.11 8.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. Fair after
M/n.
Tandjong Priok YDA 98.00 8.30 p.m.—1.30 a.m. Fair/good Same programme
after as on YDA,
10 p.m. 49.02.
N. America Winnipeg CJRX 25.60 10 a.m. —3 p.m. CJRX fair
at 3 p.m.
Canada ~ CJRO 48.78 7 a.m-.—4 p.m., S*un. CJRX fair
at 7 a.m.
8 a.m. —1.30 p.m., Mon. CJRX fair
at 8 a.m.
OJRO very poor.
U.S. of Cincinnati (Ohio) WBXAL 49.50 9 p.m.—ll a.m. Fair. Best from 9
America 2 p.m.—4.30 p.m. p.m.—10.30 p.m.
. and 4—4.30 p.m.
~ Chicago (Illinois) W9XF 49.18 7 a.m. —4 p.m. Fair at 4 p.m.
„ Pittsburg WBXK 48.80 6.30 a.m.—3 p.m. Fair at 3 p.m.
(Pennsylvania)
„ Schenectady (N.Y.) W2XAF 31.48 8.30 a.m.—2 p.m. Fair 8.30—9.30
a.m. and after
1 p.m.
5 a.m.—B a.m., Sun. Fair 7—B a.m.
„ Springfield WIXK 31.35 9 p.m.—3 p.m. Fair 9—10.30 p.m.,
(Massachusetts) 7.30 —9.30 a.m.
and 2.30 —3 p.m.
„ Philadelphia (P.A.) WSXAU 31.28 2 a.m.—9 a.m. Fair 7.30 —9 a.m.
„ Wayne (N.J.) W2XE 25.36 5 a.m.—7 a.m. Poor 6—7 a.m.
„ Pittsburg WBXK 25.27 8 a.m.—noon Poor. Best at 9 a.m.
(Pennsylvania) and noon.
„ „ WBXK 19.72 1.30 p.m.—B a.m. Poor to fair
about 9.30 a.m.
„ Boumlibrook (N.J.) WBXL 17.33 2 a.m.—B a.m. Poor.
„ „ W3XAL 16.87 M/n. —1.5 a.m. Poor.
(Except Monday)
6 a.m. —7 a.m. Poor. •
(Wed., Fri., Sat.)
~ Polinas KKQ 25.10 Noon —3 p.m. Irregular, fair.
Fiji Suva VPD 22.94 3.30 p.m. —4.30 p.m. Good.
(Except Sundays)
Australia Melbourne VK3LR 31.34 6.15 p.m.—10.30 p.m.
(Lyndhurst) (Except Sundays)
1.30 p.m.—s p.m.
(Sats. from 3AR)
0.15 p.m.—B p.m. )
(Relayed from 3AR) I D n
8 p.m.—10.30 p.m. i ay ‘
(Relayed from 31/)) j
„ Melbourne YK3ME 31.55 8 p.m.—lo p.m.
(Braybrook) (Mon. to Sat. inclusive)
~ Sydney VK2ME 31.28 3 p.m.—s p.m. ) Sundays.
8 p.in.—M/n. )
2.30 a.m.—4.30 a.m.
(Mondays)
Compiled by Amalgamated Wireless ( A’sia ), Ltd.


c the Seven Hills
of San Francisco
)To the Seven Million People
of Nen> York!
ACROSS
m
TO
ENGLAND
You know that America now
is the short, natural thorough-
fare to England.\You know
that the superb new Matson-
Oceanic liners “Mariposa”
and “Monterey” reach Cali-
fornia in 18 smooth, gay days
—with romantic Winterludes
in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii. You know that
no one is a cosmopolite who
has missed America ...
But do you know how Econ-
omy has been woven into the
warp and woof of Travel—all
along this fascinating route?
Do you realise that travel-
obstacles are conspicuous by
their complete absence?
When you reach America’s
mainland, either at Los An-
geles or San Francisco, you
know there is so much you
must see! America’s railway
systems know this,too; there-
fore fast, luxurious trains
await to take you anywhere
—3,000 miles, if you wish, in
75 hours, with hut one change
of cars. They speak your lan-
guage —know your needs,
serve you ceaselessly!
In the comfort of Pullman
sleeper, the savory atmos-
phere of diner, the smart tone
of club car for games and
lounging conductors, por-
ters, valets, ladies’ maids,
anticipate your beckonings.
Trains are air-conditioned;
controlled ventilation, with
fresh, “clean” air. Fares and
incidental expenses are uni-
formly low . And you may,
without extra charge, stop
where you please, as long as
you please.
Where? Hollywood, the best
known little city in the world I
Zion National Park, with its
Temple of Sinawava, whose
glorious beauty is too little
known; Agua Caliente, Cali-
fornia’s scintillating suburb
in Old Mexico; the thrilling
Wind Caves of South Dakota;
the summer-sportland isles
of Nantucket and Martha’s
Vineyard; and, of course, the
chain of great cities—from
the seven hills of San Fran-
cisco to the seven million
people of New York!
“England Across America”—
a profusely illustrated free
booklet, explains in detail
all you wish to know of this
entire, absorbing, richly-
repaying voyage. It is yours
upon request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL and INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated
U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981 -3
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadlo Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
LEARN AT HOME
P GOOD MONEY* RADIO
Be a Radio Expert. Many men I trained at home
in their snare time make £5, £B, £lO a week.
Many made £2, £3. £4 a week in their spare
time whilst learning. Get facts about Radio’s
opportunities and my method of training. A.R.C.
training makes learning easy, fascinating and
profitable. Send coupon now for free book
“Careers in Radio and Television.”
L, B. GRAHAM, Principal,
AUSTRALIAN RADIO COLLEGE,
BROADWAY, SYDNEY.
Please send me your free book “Careers in
Radio and Television” with no obligation on my
part.
Name
Address
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing .3(1. in stain])*) for tlio 30 x 20
inch J-avishly Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
to squally nor’-easters operating at Cape
York” has in the past been obviated only
by the twirling of a knob ; similarly with
market prices of mangel-wurzels and
melons. If these things must be broad-
cast, let the boring procedure be done as
briefly as may be. And, apropos of
brevity, there is also scope for the liaison
officer’s blue pencil in other items, such
as Stock Exchange, mails and shipping,
truck bookings, etc.
Australian Amateur Works England
on 10 Metres.
World 10-metre DX records were
shattered on 13/10/’35 when Mr. Con
Bischoff, VK2LZ, worked with G6LK
in England at 6 p.m. S.M.T. To work
with England on 10 metres has for
years been an Australian amateur ideal,
and Mr. Bischoff is to be congratulated
on achieving what has long been seem-
ingly impossible. VK2LZ and VK2HZ
now require only contacts on 10 metres
with South America and Africa to secure
W.A.C. (Worked All Continents) on this
band.
The Q. and A. Column.
I want to build the portable midget receiver
as described in B. 11/9/’35, but am puzzled
about the “slab” coils. (1) What is meant
by this term ? (2) Are both the 4000- and
the 3000 -turn coils wound on the same former ?
—322.
(1) Slab-winding means a narrow, large-
diameter coil. The coil might be only 3-16in.
or |in. thick. The turns are wound on in
the usual manner, from left to right and right
to left, until the space between the discs is
filled. (2) The coils are on the same dowel
and closely coupled, side by side. The arrange-
ment can be made by turning three bakelite
discs and glueing them on a $in. dowel, with
a fin. space between the discs. Reverse coil
connections if oscillation is not present.
* * * *
1 have a three-valve short-wave converter
which is not uniformly sensitive over the whole
dial. As the two-gang tuning condenser is
moved, the set goes dead at certain points of
the dial. The only stations that can be tuned-
in satisfactorily are those around 50 and 25
metres, just before the converter stops work-
ing. The receiver this converter is used with
is an eight-valve Tasma. Voltages used are
22+ on detector. 45 to 90 on screen, and
135 on the plate. Can you diagnose the
trouble from these details ?—323.
The first item for examination should be
the oscillator section of the condenser gang.
The cessation of signals at various points
might be due to condenser plates touching, or
particles of solder or filings may have dropped
between the plates. The 22\ voltage "on de-
tector” is not at all clear. It is presumed
that you mean the plate of a triode oscillator.
If so, this value is far too low, and at least
90 volts should be used here. Low voltage
could account for erratic oscillator action and
loss of signals as experienced. If the trouble
cannot be cleared from these suggestions, the
best move is to have the converter looked over.
Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place, Sydney,
would do this.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.F.: Verse very rocky; prose mostly plati-
tudinous J.S.: Nothing striking in it except
the attempt to rhyme “English” with “distin-
guish” F.J.: There’s little hope for narra-
tive poems dragged out to 90 lines E.M.T.:
One verse: —
Her painted lips, like coiner’s mint,
Their stamp on other lips imprint
In telltale blush of carmine tint,
Bold modern maid!
But isn’t there a kissproof lipstick? T.S.C.:
In the George R. Sims line, but a long way
behind... .M.O.: It appears to be a variation
on the old theme “All things bright and beauti-
ful” Stranger: A poem descriptive of even-
ing calm should above all things run smoothly.
Yours rattles over the ruts... .T.R.: It doesn’t
say enough.. . .J.T.W.: Versification all right;
now find suitable subjects... .E.R.: —
Myself, I’d rather be dispersed in ash
Upon some grateful field—to be manure.
The week’s most fantastic lines R.K.: In
verses on “Convalescence” the phrase “that
bark of thine” is apt to be misinterpreted
S.L.R.: In attempting to get your thoughts
into too small a compass you have sacrificed
lucidity N.K.: Both sets of verses came
close R.M.W. and W.G.D.: Sentiments ex-
cellent; verse inferior.. . .A.M.: Typical city
bush verse C.R.A.: Try a M.L. paper in
time for Christmas... .E.B.L.: Vigorous, but
they all fall short. Anything more recent?
J.M.: Quite good as old-world verse, but (put
of place in our pages.... .N.C.M.: Concluding
verses; of “The Sheep Dog” point a good moral,
>anyhow: —
The type of man that 'is the worse
His dog not understanding will curse,
And then the 'poor unoffending' dog
Will brutally and cruelly flog.
But still our interests he will serve
With energy, brain and nerve
The best of us in sheer respect
Our bullying instincts successfully checks.
J.M.: No market for “Honey-dew”... .C.B.:
Might be worth a try elsewhere W.H.B.: It
has good parts, but isn’t quite up to standard.
....T.R.: Neither suitable M.H.: “Black-
out” misses, after much consideration
A.E.K.: Doesn’t hold the interest C.F.C.:
The misunderstanding is too transparent....
E. : You don’t succeed in getting the atmo-
sphere you strive for L.H.: Came close; try
again A.V.H.: No space for dream-story of
Social-credit Utopia... .B.F.: Right off our
beat D.T.F.: It needs a better climax
F. Totally unconvincing... .O.L.: War
yarns must be particularly good; yours doesn’t
ring the bell....X: Name and address on
all copy, please... .I.M.M.: An outer with
each shot D.K.McC.: Humor totters along
under forced draught,.. .L.B.: Satirical
sketches more statements of fact than satire.
... .G.T.: “Fear” too morbid ; “Ben’s Mother”
died of pernicious anasmia... .M.F. (M.L.):
“A New Tie” only has a few spots C.C.:
Near borderline;' try another shop... .K.M.S.
(M.L.): Style and dialogue satisfactory, but
plots unsuitable. You should do better
D.A.A.: Yes, The Bulletin is a constant
buyer of original gags for joke-blocks, but
pinchers are warned off.' Jokes,' stories and
verse are paid for on acceptance; pars, on
publication.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.L.: Your desert island looks like a care-
lessly-poached egg. Style too “Comic Cut”-ish.
. ...G.C.I.: Of the four points you suggest,
your contribution fails on the first and fourth,
with emphasis on the first J.McC.: Not
over-impressed with either of your proteges, but
they were terribly handicapped by the joke you
supplied them with. Answering your queries,
(a) yes; ( b ) no; (c) yes....P.K.: The gag
is very old, very weak and entirely unsuited to
the drawing... .R.C.H.: Is that an oar the
sailor is using or a fountain-pen? M.C.P.:
Gags must be guaranteed new. Yours are mostly
older than The Bulletin W.E.M.: How to
break into our pages? Well, the first step is
to learn to draw; then get a humorous idea
and illustrate it....J.Y.S.: Better than your
last batch. Use a firmer line... .D.M.J.:
Figures well drawn but wooden. Instil a
little life into them....J.F.H.: Tall gentleman
on stage is apparently engaged in Swedish
drill, but why on earth is the fat lady trying
to swallow the piano?... .H.E.G.: It’s no
use sending in two-figure drawings; think up
a humorous situation and draw that.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
W. S. Cox Plate: Peter Pan ; next,
Young Idea.
Gold Cup: Sarcherie; next,
Sithon.
Dundonald Handicap; L’Elite;
next, Theresa Gamba.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Macquarie Grove Handicap:
Buonarroti ; next, Broccoli.
Varroville Handicap: Gold
Digger ; next, Royal Bird.
Homebush Handicap; Limyris ;
next, Measure.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Palfresco’s success in the Caulfield Cup
was a great thing for the Ring. The
liabilities of fielders on the two Cups are
now almost negligible; only a few
speckers who habitually look for long
shots coupled the Son o’ Mine—Little
Millie colt with Melbourne Cup fancies.
Wagering on the course also was richly
to the advantage of the odds-layers.
During the week Palfresco had
executed a couple of brilliant gallops.
These had the effect of increasing the
confidence of a stable that bets modestly,
but they did not impress followers of
form, who allowed Neville PercivaTs
mount to go out at 20 to 1. On this
season’s performances how could anyone
outside the stable back him? Only once
had he been placed—he was second to
The Chanter in the Chatsworth Plate at
Caulfield on August 10. After that he
beat three home in the Williamstown
Underwood Stakes, won by Young Idea,
was sixth in the V.A.T.C. Memsie Stakes
(Hall Mark), and, fifth in the Moonee
Valley Stakes (Valiant Chief), the
V.R.C. Stand Handicap,(The Trump) and
the Caulfield Stakes (Feldspar),
Nevertheless, Palfresco won on his
merits. No excuse can be found for any
of the beaten horses, with the possible
Bert: " I dont think III go in,
)m SHIVERSNe,*
Gert; "coward ! vV
Bert .' Look., Im <aLL goose-FUESH SS .
Gert! "Twats only natucaal, Did you expect
To SEE HUMAH PLESU * *
exception of Oro, who struck the heels
of Panto five furlongs from home and
almost fell. Pratt’s opinion was that this
made no real difference, and most on-
lookers shared that view ; Oro was too
far back in the field when the mishap
occurred.
Spartan, Carnarvon and Satmoth saw
to the pacemaking, and Feldspar led
round the home turn. But Palfresco took
command soon after entering the straight,
and, ridden with the energy and courage
for which Neville Percival is noted, he
was untroubled to score by a length and
a half from the fast-finishing Hot Shot
(a greatly-improved horse), with Mara-
bou (favorite at 4 to 1) third. Pal-
fresco took three-quarters of a second
off the Australasian record of 2min.
28isec., which stood to the credit of
Gaine Carrington, and was established in
the Caulfield Cup of 1933,
Sarcherie finished a close fourth, and
proved decidedly the best of the Sydney
division. Next to the chestnut mare came
Journal, Feldspar and Charles Fox.
The candid admission was made by
A. G. Hunter, part-owner of Marabou,
that in no circumstances could his horse
have beaten Palfresco. The time was
too good to have left any loophole for
doubt. Marabou, being essentially a
stayer, needs a fast pace. He got it in
the Caulfield Cup. The first half-mile
occupied only 471 sec, Of course, that
speed could not be maintained, but the
middle half-mile was officially timed at
50sec. and the concluding four furlongs
at 50fsec. Marabou came home so well
that he will not lose any friends for
the Melbourne Cup ; two miles should
suit him admirably,
Palfresco is held on lease by S. Kent,
a Caulfield hairdresser, who never previ-
ously raced a horse. The trainer, Claude
Brown, is young at the,game ; he worked
for the late Harry, McCalman when
Whittier won the first of his two Caul-
field Cups as a three-year-old. Brown
reckoned that his colt had done a pre-
paration quite as good as that of Whit-
tier. Palfresco has had 51b. added to
his Melbourne Cup weight, which was
7st. 41b.
N. S. Wales had a winning turn in the
Mona Nursery, for fillies, with Fidelity
(3 to 1), a daughter of Constant Son,
sire of Young Idea, out of Wolverine. This
filly belongs to Colin Stephen, the A.J.C.
chairman, and is trained by Bailey
Payten, who sent her over to Melbourne
a few weeks ago to be looked after by
Ted Fisher, of Flemington, until his
(Payten’s) arrival. Fidelity well de-
served her victory. She conceded Genoa,
the favorite, several lengths’ start into
the straight, and then, when going up on
the inside, received a severe bump from
Genoa, who must have lost on a protest
had she won. Recovering from the in-
terference, Fidelity soon ran past Genoa,
She pulled up lame in the near foreleg
but seemed all right on Monday.
......
The juvenile event for colts and geld-
ings went to an 8-to-l chance, Arabian
Knight (Eastern Monarch—Starry Night),
a brother to Carnarvon. He belongs to
Ralph Horne, a former pony jockey,
and was piloted by Maxwell, who dis-
tinguished himself on the Melbourne
pony courses before taking up residence
in Sydney.
Lou Robertson, the trainer of Mara-
bou, produced Garrio for the Windsor
Handicap, and, in view of his fine second
to Young Idea in the Caulfield Guineas,
the Chivalrous colt was made a hot pot.
However, Keith Voitre was temporarily
out of form as a jockey. Garrio got
into a good deal of trouble, and, to make
matters worse, could not obtain an open-
ing when he made a rush at the leaders
after entering the straight. Heros looked
certain to credit Jack Holt with the
spoils when he led at the half-distance ;
but both Dark Sky and J. S. Brunton’s
locally-trained Quarto beat him home.
Dark Sky, in whom the Sydney sports-
man Mr. “Constable” has a third inter-
est, was well in the market. Substantial
odds could be had about Quarto.
♦ * * *
“T.”: Neville Percival wears well. He
was riding in Perth before the war, and,
unlike most jockeys, he has never fallen
into flesh. He can still go to scale at
seven stone, and few stronger seven-
stoners have vaulted into a saddle ; ne
has at times, perhaps, failed for lack of
skill, matched with a Pike or a Duncan,
but never for lack of energy. A bent
for racing runs in the family. A younger
brother has been a W.A. Trotting Asso-
ciation official almost since he left
school. He is now secretary.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Twenty-nine years ago a
three-year-old won the two Cups, and the
Victoria Derby in between. Like Pal-
fresco, he had a three-syllable name,
commencing with a “P,” and was the
offspring of an English-bred horse
(Positano) that had raced with some suc-
cess in Australia. Can Palfresco do what
Poseidon did? He has begun as bril-
liantly, and. has only 31b. more in the
bigger Cup than Poseidon won with.
At' Randwick, as at Caulfield, the
bookmakers had much the better of their
argument with backers; not a favorite
won.
The Marne looked well and had Pike
in the saddle, so naturally the chestnut
was the opening fancy for the Flying
Handicap. Heavy support for Silver
Jubilee and Windbird caused the Heroic
horse to ease to threes; Windbird came
from sevens (eights in places) to 7 to ?.
The Marne played up at the barrier;
Pike, however, got him away smartly,
and with Silver Jubilee he made the
pace a cracker to the Legef. There
Windbird, served by his pull in the
weights, came fast on the outside and
won, running away, by half a length
from The Marne, Silver Jubilee being a
head back, Cereza, looking burly, was
fourth.
Narbethong is Sydney’s most improved
middle-distance horse. The Ascot-
trained gelding has had a lot of racing,
but thrives on it. Yet there was a doubt
whether he could travel 10 furlongs,
and for the City Tatt.’s Handicap he
started at eights. Cherry King (12 to 1)
essayed to lead throughout, but Nar-
bethong always had his measure. Going
past the Maoriland horse a furlong from
home, Narbethong beat him easily, the
favorite, Mr. Kerry, being third and
Silver Ring fourth. Lightfoot rode
Windbird and Narbethong.
Lough Neagh and The Buzzard showed
that Queensland form was good, and
Black Laughter has been reinforcing the
lesson. A good winner at Rosebery,
Black Laughter took the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap, at sixes. Silver
Standard and Medallist filled the places.
The favorite, Rembrandt, galloped freely
to the turn ;he then died away. Old
Story, from Westralia, ran a useful race
and is in line for a win. She was
squeezed on the rails when making a
forward move at the Leger.
Otway Falkiner’s colors were carried
to victory in the Two-year-old by Friars'
Switch, a sturdy chestnut by Friarsdale
from Switch. Friars’ Switch—backed
from 7 to 2 to twos —romped home from
the favorite, Royal King, and Mark
Antony. Royal King is one of T. C.
Trautwein’s mokes. He is a bold gal-
loper, and will be heard of at a longer
distance than five furlongs ; his jockey
did not seem to be of much use to him.
Autoland (10 to 1), who has been
given a course of hurdling to quieten
him, was not troubled in the Novice ;
still, Tuckiar (third), badly away, was a
good thing beaten. Autoland carries the
colors of H. Longworth, a member of
an old Sydney racing family, and is
trained by Henderson, who has Measure.
And Limoux (nominally 20 to 1) gave
the Ring a clean sheet when MagilTs
horse scored in the Club Welter from
King Musk and Phaedius. Bombus and
Foxhunter disappointed. Foxhunter had
downed Windbird in a trial gallop, but
went sourly throughout. Jimmy Finch
rode Limoux well; he broke a run of
bad luck.
* * * *
Barak and Curator were owned by the
late L. K. S. Mackinnon, chairman of
the V.R.C. for many years, and after
his death were raced by the estate. Hav-
ing completed their Randwick engage-
ments, they were sent into the sale ring
at Sydney last week and brought rather
remarkable prices: Barak, 1600 guineas;
Curator, 1800 guineas. It is doubtful if
they would have fetched more in the pre-
depression days when stake-money in
Sydney was far higher than it is now.
It must be accounted a sign of returning
prosperity.
* * * *
“Marconigram”: D. J. Davis, who
owned Phar Lap, is now one of the bosses
of the California Jockey Club. Davis has
two well-bred M.L. yearlings and three
brood rnares (the mares have foaled to
Night Raid, Phar Lap’s sire), and bids
fair , to establish a successful stud.
* * * *
The greatest of all picnic meetings
will be held at Onkaparinga (S.A.) next
Easter Monday. Onkaparinga holds only
one meeting a year, and it is making a
special effort for the State’s centenary
year—putting up £5125 in stake-money,
of which £3OOO is to endow the Great
Eastern Steeplechase. There will be “a
solid silver trophy, also ribbon and
buckle,” besides. In Melbourne last
winter steeplechase fields were rather
small and poor in quality, but Onka-
paringa’s offer will no doubt bring many
recruits into the game.
“Curser”; Bolger, the youthful Strath-
field pro., broke into big golf with a ven-
geance by holding Perrier off to win The
Lakes open, doing the 72 in 284; the
Manly colt was five to the bad. The
winner, a model of consistency with
rounds of 71, 70, 73 and 70, played an
excellent all-round game, his strength on
the greens accounting for Perrier.
* * * *
“Spike”; A somewhat cryptic message
from Adelaide says that a meeting of the
National Games Council has decided to
recognise the Women’s Athletic Union to
the extent of permitting the selection of
girls for the Olympic and Empire Games.
This has to be confirmed at the Aus-
tralian Athletic Union meeting at Hobart
in January, but events for women may
in any case be included in the National
Games programme.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The Rugby League team
returned from Maoriland full of the
wonderful hold the game has there and
the grand form shown by the players. As
to the hold, the side’s one excursion out-
side Auckland was disastrous, the gate at
Wellington barely returning train fares.
As to form, it is stated by the tourists
that ex-Union player Cooke was the
finest back encountered. Cooke was
a real star 10 years ago.
* * * *
“Spike”: N.S.W. athlete Metcalfe has
resolved, as he did last year, not to com-
pete in the Australian championships at
Hobart or in the National Games at
Adelaide. Same reason: University
examinations. It is rare to see an athlete
putting his career before the glamor of
a fleeting eminence in sport. Yet public
adulation of the successful athlete dies
like the fungus the moment success
deserts him.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”; The contention of British
yachtsmen that the America’s Cup de-
fenders, built in the U.S.A., are mere
racing shells fitted only to sail in the
landlocked waters of Long Island Sound
has received emphatic confirmation. The
owner of Yankee, one of the two yachts
built to defend the Cup against Sopwith’s
Endeavour, recently shipped her to
England to race in the British regattas.
At Dartmouth she was asked to face a
Channel half-gale. Her mast was snapped
and she capsized. The owners cancelled
further engagements.
* * * *
“Splash”: President Taylor, of the
N.S.W. Swimming Association, has again
warned his flock against competing in
so-called surf-racing events which are
professional in character. The Inter-
national Federation has passed anew
rule whereby no swimmer sacrificing his
or her amateur status may be rein-
stated.


MARLOW & CO.,
8a Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers’ Service
Station.
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY .. 2nd NOVEMBER
CUP DAY .. .. sth NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY .. .. 7th NOVEMBER
C. B. FISHER PLATE 9th NOVEMBER
£BOOO ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP
ami GOLD CUP OP £2OO.
£5OOO ADDKD TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY,
Secretary.
iSM
Am
Wo
yi
m
pern
In lib. units on wide,
flat surfaces. Hand-
somely plated and
complete in neat
leather wallet.
B|6
gauge
EXPERIENCE MAKES ACCURACY
... 8/6 buys it
In the manufacture of the KISMET five major tests
are given, with a final series of pressure tests to
check its readings. No effort is spared to make
the KISMET a truly precision instrument. It is
dependable.
The KISMET standard of accuracy cannot be pur-
chased for less than 8/6. Cheap gauges sacrifice
precision to price. KISMET gives your tyres the
accurate balance which is' essential to comfort and
safety on the road.
Sole Manufacturers i WILLIAM TURNER & BROS., jLTD., Sheffield, Eng,
> Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware St., 31ell>. C.l.
I
No. 145,
KEMP
STYLE
POLEY
SADDLE
(COMPLETE)
£9/5/-
Suitable for station
work. It has Pigskin
Seat, good long Kip Flaps and short
Panel with leather points. It is
mounted with Leathers, Girth and
N.P. Irons.
For Cash with Order We Pay Rail
Freight in N.S.W.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M. (and Raiferty) Rules
“G.M.”: It is many years since a
“stopping” fight has been seen in an
Australian ring. A second-rate boxer
would undertake to stand up to a first-
rate one (or a lighter man to a heavier)
for a certain number of rounds and, if
he was on his feet at the end of that
period, he won. The first-rater would
make every post a winner; the other
would defend himself by every device at
his command. These tactics occasion-
ally led to poor contests, but in the
majority the crowd got its money’s worth.
* * * *
“Eric the R.”; As I write, “Starlight,”
the old-time negro pug, lies in Melbourne
Hospital fighting for his life. For two
generations, “Starlight,” now 85, has
been one of the institutions of Mel-
bourne. A capable middleweight when
in his prime, he fought all the best men
in his division—Fitzimmons was one,
Creedon another —and was a tough pro-
position at 50. Twenty years ago, three
dusky pugs, “Starlight,” Peter Felix and
Teddy Savral, were- picturesque features
of Melbourne life. Felix stayed at the
game as long as the old man with the
scythe would let him, but Savral re-
turned to his old love, preaching the
gospel as an evangelist.
3l< >{< :J: *
“Old S.”: The disqualification of a
boxer in Melbourne for biting an oppo-
nent during a clinch is the first viola-
tion of the sort recorded for many years.
The last instance of pugilistic cannibal-
ism in the memory of old-time boxing
fans occurred at Richmond (Vic.) Crystal
Palace, where King—later known as the
notorious criminal King—endeavored to
make a hearty meal from the shoulder
of an adversary. The referee on that
occasion was the late Joe Goddard, and
when he ruled out the offender King
made an impassioned speech in which he
declared that he was “only a poor igno-
rant nigger who couldn’t get fair play
because of his color.” He was hustled
out of the ring, and within a week was
hustled into gaol, from which he emerged
many years later—to disappear over-
board during a deportation voyage to the
U.S.A.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The Ma State cricket
selectors picked 40 men to practise for
Sheffield Shield matches. They left
out Hunt, who was thought good
enough to play in a Test against South
Africa, and who regularly represented
N. in the Sheffields before he went
to England for a couple of seasons. He
is showing good form in Sydney, and
his omission is hard to understand. Many
will be relieved that the excellent Peter-
sham ’keeper, Easton, has been included.
Kippax and Chilvers have been chosen,
of course, but both say they are dubious
about playing regularly.
:J: * *
“Third Man”: Tarrant created anew
precedent for cricket selectors by pick-
ing his team for some of the matches
while still on the ship. For instance, the
side for the Colombo match beginning
October 25 has been selected, as has that
for the first game against India at
Lahore on November 23-26. What will
happen if any of the chosen falls over-
board and is swallowed by a shark, or is
nabbed by a tiger while traversing Hind,
remains to be seen.
![! * *
The N.S.W. Cricket Association
annual grows bigger and better with the
years, and the latest edition, now on sale
for 6d., excels even its predecessors.
New features are incorporated and the
best of the old have been retained. This
edition includes scores and all details
of the last Australian tour of England,
and records of inter-State and Sheffield
Shield matches since they began have
been amplified.
“Single Wicket”; Someone sensibly
suggests a return to the old ball-throwing
contests that used to follow big cricket
matches when these closed a bit early.
Throwing is an attractive exhibition, and
there are plenty of chances to bet if the
barracker feels that way. Once no
amateur sports meeting was complete
without an event of the kind. The
world’s record is 140yds. 2ft., done at
Durham (Eng.) in 1884.
* $ ♦ *
“Lancaster Park”: A bowler in a
Wanganui (M.L.) senior match nicked
six wickets in seven balls. These were
spread over two overs, with a double hat-
trick in each, the cost being four runs.
Albert Trott had some remarkable per-
formances of the sort to his credit when
playing for Middlesex. One was in his
benefit at Lord’s, when he outed four
Somerset batsmen with consecutive balls
in the first innings and three in three con-
secutive balls in the second. The only
Test example is that of the Victorian
Matthews, of the 1912 Australian Eleven.
It was the year of the triangular-Test
experiment, and in the match against
South Africa at Old Trafford Matthews
did the hat-trick in each innings. They
were the only wickets he took.
“Sale”: Old Trafford is threatened
with desecration. Manchester United
has a long winter lease of the ground for
ONE ANIMAL TO ANOTHER.
“Hullo, I haven't seen you for a long time."
“No, I've been at the stud."
“ What's that?"
Soccer, and proposes to make another
Wembley of it, seating 140,000 people —
part of a back-to-Lancashire move among
North Country Soccer followers. At one
time Lancashire (and, in a lesser degree,
Yorkshire) clubs monopolised Soccer
supremacy ; the game was little known
south of Derby County and Notts Forest.
Now its centre is in London, and “f Coop”
final is always played in the effete South.
Cricketers, for their part, are against the
Old Trafford proposal, and if it is carried
further a royal row, full of interest for
Australia, which has figured in many
Tests on the Manchester arena, will
result.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”: lam not joining in the
blither excited by the feat of Jim Ferrier
in winning the N.S.W. close champion-
ship at Killara links with the unprece-
dented score —for Australia —of 266 for
72 holes. The lad is being proclaimed a
super-Jones, and demands for his expatri-
ation to Britain to collect the open and
amateur titles there next year are being
broadcast. With all respect to the Manly
lad, undoubtedly the finest of Australian
amateur players, his amazing score was
due as much to the comparative easiness
of the Killara course as to his own super-
lative skill. There is ample evidence of
this in the fact that seven of his oppo-
nents broke 70: Perrier’s own rounds
were 67, 65, 70 and 64. Killara. like most
other Australian courses, calls for recon-
ditioning. Overseas players are unani-
mous that our so-called championship
courses are far too easy to players accus-
tomed to the rigorous demands of the
leading British and American courses.
Till they are made harder Australians
playing overseas will be heavily handi-
capped.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”; There is talk of
N.S.W. —rest of Australia not considered
—sending a team of four goiters to
Britain next year. It was suggested some
time ago that an Australian side of four
might be sent, but St. Andrews advised
against it on the ground that American
amateurs will be playing for the Walker
Cup in Britain at the same time. If the
latest idea is persisted in, the players
should be sent in lime to let them have
at least six months’ practice on British
courses. Otherwise disillusion waits in
the bunkers of Sandwich or Hoylake.
“What’s Yours?”: A golf decision of
some importance has been almost com-
pletely ignored by the Australian press.
Two North Tasmanian golfers had
arrived at the ninth hole of their course,
fortuitously just opposite the nineteenth.
They adjourned for a quick couple, but
did not lose their places on the green.
Protest was entered on the ground they
had broken the round, there not being
bad weather to justify it. St. Andrews
has ruled that the players were within
their rights and that disqualification for
the match imposed by their club should
be lifted.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. country cham-
pionship went to an 18-year-old
Shepherd, of Moss Vale. He has been
playing golf since he was eight, and,_
though this was his first appearance in
the event, he was as cool as a cucumber.
At the 18th hole of 582 yards he needed
a six to win, and found the rough with
his second. He slammed his way back
to the green in five, and finished with a
score for the 72 holes of 152 —one ahead
of Stuart, of Boorowa.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Joyce Wethered told an
interviewer on her return to London
from America that she has no intention
of visiting Australia, with Gene Sarazen
or anyone else. Had the lady come, Aus-
tralian golfers could have conscientiously
said they had seen the greatest woman
golfer the world has known. Joyce is
to golf what Suzanne was to tennis, and
we may not look upon their like again.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: It looks as if
Norman Brookes is “for it.” He seems
to have gone through the U.S.A. as the
Devil went through Athlone instead of
lingering by the wayside to tempt Helen
Wills-Moody and others to come to
Australia. Cables sent him chased all
over the place, and at last were sent
back. He has been located at Honolulu,
whence he has cabled that the chance of
getting any American visitors this year
is Buckley’s. The A.L.T.A., “nursing her
wrath to keep it warm,” like Mrs. Tam
O’Shanter, is now waiting for an ex-
planation.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Cochet wanted a £5OO
guarantee, plus 50 p.c. of the gates and
hotel and travelling expenses for self and
wife. The N.S.W.L.T.A., including the
hardcourt section, has cabled offering
one-third of gross gates without any
guarantee. The Gaul has accepted and
is coming. Wonders will never cease.
* * * *
“Baseline”; Sydney tennis heads have,
been roused to fury by country organi-
sations which not only get behind with
their fees but surreptitiously invite star
players to exhibition tournaments, thus
earning oodles of brass. Employers of
leading players are to be asked to pre-
vent their men playing in such shows, a
suggestion which practically makes the
player’s boss a policeman for the L.T.A.
Miscellaneous
A 23-year-old South Australian, T.
Ashton, won the King’s Prize at Anzac
Range (N.S.W.) with an aggregate of
345 points for the eight ranges, one
point better than the record. Ernie
Brunskill, of led at the end of
the first day’s shoot, with possibles at
300, 500 and 600 yards, and after the
second stage was one point behind Addi-
son, now the leader. Brunskill went
ahead again on the third day, but
dropped seven points on the 900 yards,
where Ashton had a 47 out of a pos-
sible 50. Ashton and a clubmate, V. T.
Collyer, finished together, but the shoot-
off went to Ashton by one point; 24 out
of a 25 possible. Ashton gets £lOO and
Collyer £5O.
* * * *
“Bias”: Though the South African
tour is off, Australian bowlers have a
chance of a pleasant trip when the Main-
land championships are held at Christ-
church in January. The championship
events' will be singles, rinks and pairs,
and will be played under the M.L. sec-
tional system; under this a team or
player may be beaten and yet qualify for
intersectional play. It seems a fairer
method than the Australian plan, where
a defeat means a seat on the bank for
the rest of the competition.


VeSlMtlliUG > that’s
Get
new and letter!
2Sg
KNEE ACTION
W/M
■
m
m
ms
SUPER-HYDRAULIC BRAKES
NO-DRAUGHT VENTILATION
INBUILT LUGGAGE TRUNK
JL BIG ALL-FEATURE
OLDSMOBILE EIGHT
The qualities that have gone to make Oldsmobile famous are
repeated and added to in the Oldsmobile Eight. The things that
make a car do what you want it to do —exactly how you want
it done —are here in lavish abundance.
The eight-cylinder engine gives you an unmatchable combination
of pick-up. pull and power-makes quick, light work of the longest
toughest going The wheelbase of 121 inches means even greater
room and even greater comfort. The super large tyres add even
more to the streamline glide you inevitably expectin an Oldsmobile.
The big-car interiors, tastefully finished, luxuriously appointed,
even to a centre arm-rest, invite you to restful, relaxing travel
. . . Features such as these ensure that you get it Knee Action,
No-Draught Ventilation. Ride Stabilizer. Scientifically Distributed
Weight. Super-Hydraulic Brakes Centre Control Steering,
Synchro-Mesh Gears Scientifically Sound-Proofed Holden Bodies
. . . Plus a host of refinements such as Dual Sun Visors and
Separate Inbuilt Locked Luggage and Tyre Compartments
Come for a streamline glide in an Oldsmobile Eight-it will
exceed your every expectation - vour admiration will mount
with every effortless mile
GENERAL MOTORS-H O L D E N ’ S LTD.
tcv9
a* 8
c <J.tv
a* e
\Vv<*
ct®
o'*
o
Vot'
\e°-
v,ev°
\W®
a<3
vta®
V>t°
iVve
i*
e? 4
vj°
Yv\V
tv*
cSJ^
e' 5.
art
u°
a*
s*P
VJtv
if*?
a*
iiP
u' e
S'*
UO*
\tv°
\a c
a*- 0
co"
a" s
five
\Yv®
otv
a\* e
ttfP
D e
G. M.-H. RADIO
Oldsmobfle is wired for G.M.-H
Radio, the finest produced for
Australian conditions. A 6-
walve Superhet with two dual
purpose valves, giving 8-valve
range and performance, and
with every up-to-date feature
including Automatic Volume
Control. Price £27 plus tax.
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
fd
§>trea.mline
Be well advised by an
acknowledged Expert
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifie and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics, is attached
to Mick Simmons' Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to
firearms and shooting.
MODERN
Sporting Rifles
No. I—THU MAINE RIFLE, 22-cal.,
14, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in. round barrel,
walnut stock, bulge fore-end, hooded ramp
front and peep receiver rear sight; with
swivels and leather sling. Weight, AC /
about 51b
Pontage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD S.S.
KIPLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22iu.
round barrel, gold bead front and Af)/
ladder rear sight. Weight, about 4Jlb. “v' ■
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
a
Mm and safely the new mgu power
1, Super Speed 22 -C7/1 0/»
MIMA K.F. Cartridges. «** • iv/
lEiiliirinfiM* Carriage Paid.
N„ 4—MOSSIiERG S.S. 22-CAL. K.E. RIFLE,
MODEL 10, bolt action, 22in. round barrel,
walnut stock, bead front and ladder rear
sights, with swivels and web sling. Ov / m
Weight, about 41b ****
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
w„ k MOfifiavßU S.S. B.F. RIFLE. MODEL
World Famous
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action, 32iu. steel
barrels, both choke, rebounding locks, cross
bolt, snap fore-end, half -PIC/lti/
pistol grip, walnut stock .. x*Jt m
Carriage Paid.
No. 23— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever X bolt,
steel barrels, both choke, mailed rib, barrels
and lug one piece, 321 n. barrels, walnut stock
pistol grip tested for nitro CCt/'t f\/_
powders; weight about 81b cLUJ X\J “
Carriage Paid.
Xo. 28—WINCHESTER D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN. 12G., 30in. steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke; top lever, walnut
stock, pistol grip, chambered for 2fin. cart-
ridges. Weight, about Till). £22/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 29—FOX STERLINGWORTH D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever, walnut stock, pistol
crip. chambered for 2Jin.. cartridges.
about 7i ! b ; £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Latest Edition just released. Write for copy.
Post free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
“Weensda’ ”: Recent reference to the
refusal of owners of British Soccer foot-
ballers to sell at any price is followed by
the news that Arsenal has offered £17,000
for one Walker, a Scottish international
inside right. The previous highest was
£ll,OOO paid by Aston Villa for a centre
half. Last year Arsenal was boasting
that its forward line of five had cost
£30,000 on the hoof. The newcomer
should considerably improve the capital
value of the livestock. Up till recently,
at any rate, a transferred player was
getting 10 per cent, of his transfer cost
in addition to his weekly screw, so Mr.
Walker himself will do none so badly.
* * * *
“Blade”; The Police crew, winners
of the Boone Memorial Cup at Mosman
regatta, also won the option of represent-
ing N.S.W. at Henley-on-Yarra on
November 30 in the Grand Challenge
Eights. The N.S.W. association has
nominated Turner, Australian cham-
pion, for the Sculls at Henley. W. I.
Tipping, of the Nepean club, has re-
ceived its gracious permission to com-
pete at his own expense.
“Swan”; In spite of its fine record in
the King’s Cup races, Westralia nurses
a secret sorrow—it has never won on its
own water. After the crew’s great race
at Penrith (N.S.W.) last May the West-
ralians are satisfied that they can turn
the trick this time, though the crew, like
that defeated by N.S.W. on the Nepean,
is a light one. In Liggins, who was No. 7,
the ’Gropers claim they have found one
of the best strokes for a long time.
* * * *
“G.M.”: Once more the amateur status
is to be overhauled by the governing
body in Victoria. It is about time. Mere
kids who take part in picnic sprints for
a money prize of five shillings find, a
few years later, that they are profes-
sionals and have to go through long and
complicated trouble to be reinstated.
Some of the disqualifications imposed
make a parent fear to offer his four-
year-old a penny to race another toddler
across the park.
“Fitzcray”: A small boy who took
part in a race for a money prize up and
down a mountain in some remote part
of Victoria has been informed that his
standing as an amateur has been for-
feited. What penalties will be inflicted
on the erring one are as yet uncertain,
but it is evident he will have to give up
all hope of ever appearing as an Aus-
tralian Olympic representative.
“The Gaffer”; Dogged does it. For
a long time The Bulletin has urged the
construction of cinder running tracks if
our athletes are ever to get a chance to
produce world’s form. The N.S.W.
Government has consented to give £3OOO
for the purpose, provided the Empire
Games are allotted to Sydney in 1938.
A mischievous statement that the Sydnev
Cricket Ground grass is as fast as cinders
and that Carlton equalled the world’s
record for 220 yards on it calls foi
correction. Carlton’s run was before a
strong following wind on that occasion,
and was never considered a record. No
times on grass anywhere in the world,
equal the cinder figures.
* * ♦ *
“Grasspan”: Roy Cazaly, captain of
the North Hobart team, Tas. premiers,
holds a remarkable record in football.
Now 42 years of age, he has been play-
ing since he was a schoolboy, most of
the time with senior clubs. For some
years, he lived in Melbourne, and there
distinguished himself as one of the star
men of St. Kilda and “Sowth.” Accord-
ing to reports, he is playing as fast and as
skilfully as he was in his twenties. Billy
Windley, of South Melbourne, played
centre for his club for 20 consecutive
years, and when he retired he was prob-
ably the best centre man in the League.


Patents.
SPARK ARRESTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
4236/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
ftnitac.
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
%
%
*/•
Think what you could do this Christmas
with a cheque for 75 GUINEAS
—or one of the many other
substantial cash prizes
Now is your chance to make this Christmas one of
the most prosperous you’ve ever known. The Texas
Company (Australasia) Limited is offering prizes
totalling over £2OO for Texaco Motor Oil Slogans
. . . every prize a splendid REWARD FOR ONLY
A FEW MINUTES’ THOUGHT !
To make this contest easy and interesting, and to
get ideas, read the special Texaco folder giving in
brief form the history of the world’s largest inde-
pendent oil company as well as useful facts about
Texaco Motor Oil. Ask for a copy at your nearest
garage or service station together with
conditions of entry and official entry
forms.
But, hurry! Entries close on
November 25th, and prize
winners will be announced in
the press on December 16th.
ts^
Vo
OVER £260 IN PRIZES
Champion Slogan of
Commonwealth
2nd Champion Slogan ......
Best Slogan from each
State:—N.S.W.. Vic., Q..
S.A., W.A.. Tas ....
2nd best Slogan from
each State: N.S.W.,
Vic., Q., S.A., W.A., Tas.
/Vo entrant can win two prizes.
A
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LTD. Inc . in N.S.W.
M 051.275
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1556 of 1935.
BETWEEN NORA TEMPLE TRAFFORD
Petitioner „
And ERNEST TRAFFORD Respondent.
TO ERNEST TRAFFORD.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORA
TEMPLE TRAFFORD has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition tiled
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of October, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1481 of 1935.
BETWEEN EDITH ADELINE BEECHAM
Petitioner „ ~
And EDWARD STANLEY BEECHAM
Respondent.
TO EDWARD STANLEY BEECHAM late
of Corrimal in the Stale ol New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
ADELINE BEECHAM has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying lor
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ol
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Tenth day of January One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition tiled herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of October, a.d.
1935.
For the Registrar,
C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Eldon Chambers, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 821 of 1935.
BETWEEN VERA ISABEL O’BRIEN (for-
merly Vera Isabel Johnston) Petitioner
And WILLIAM JOSEPH O’BRIEN Re-
spondent.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH O’BRIEN late of
Tuncurry and of Grafton in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VERA
ISABEL O’BRIEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of adultery AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited, or obtaining, further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. _ _
DATED this 14th day of October, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. C. McINTOSH, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Lismore. By his agents, McINTOSH, EMER-
TON & THOMAS, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1446 of 1935.
lETWEEN MARY ALMA MINEHAN
Petitioner
And EDWARD WILLIAM MINEHAN
Respondent. ,
TO EDWARD WILLIAM MINEHAN late
of Narrabri.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
ALMA MINEHAN has commenced a suit
igainst you in this Court and is applying for
i dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
lesertion for three years and upwards without
ust cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
:hat you are required to enter an appearance
:o the said suit at the proper office of this
Lourt on or before the Ninth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or of obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A. copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this 11th day of October, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
MESSRS. WEAVER & ALL WORTH, Solici-
tors for Petitioner, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove evei7
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE-
A MIXED GRILL.
“Spare Calvin”: The annual attempt
of a section of the churches to prevent
the Sydney Agricultural Show opening
on Good Friday shows how easily people
are led in such matters. Many Christian
countries lake little notice of the day
except for special church services, Eng-
land among them. There ordinary life
goes on almost uninterruptedly. In Pres-
byterian Scotland no notice whatever is
taken of the day. Yet nobody would
contend that Scottish people display less
religious feeling than Australians.
* * * *
Westralia’s timber industry has ex-
perienced a healthy revival. Two years
ago annual exports had got down to
£343,000 (Aust.); during the year to June
30, 1935, they jumped to £701,960 (Aust.).
Still they have a long way to go
before they reach the 1926-27 figure,
when £1,659,800 of timber was shipped
abroad. There was then no difference
between the Australian and English
pounds.
He * * *
“Blurt”: A Sydney paper came out
with diagrams showing the location of
the new naval oil tanks at Darwin and
Clifton Gardens, Now it has published
all the news about a new coast-defence
gun to be mounted at North Head, Syd-
ney. Full details of the thing are given,
calibre and so on ; the only omission is
a blueprint showing radius of fire and
range possibilities.
* + * *
“Jachris”: if greater employment in the
dressmaking business argues anything,
conditions are definitely brighter. I've
had two advertisements for experienced
hands in “S. M. Herald” during the last
three weeks —for four answers. None of
the applicants knew the work. Last time
1 needed a hand, a couple of years ago,
i spent half the morning turning girls
away.
“Longshoreman”; “Sailor” needs to
take a half-turn when he says (B.
11/9/’35) he has never seen a photograph
of King George in a peaked cap except
when engaged in official naval duties.
The King, like his father before him, and
like every other yachtsman at Cowes,
never wears anything else aloft while sail-
ing the Britannia or when he is ashore in
the grounds of the R.Y.C. The English
tabloids have been giving the old hooker
a lot of publicity of late, and pictures
of George Rex complete with “watch
cap” have been legion. I agree with
“5.,” however, in his strictures on the
aping of the naval uniform by Sydney
yachtsmen. This is especially evident in
the “tropical” evening-dress rig, which is
an impudently close imitation of the
original.
♦ * ¥ *
“Boanerges”: Westralia lost its last
public speaker of the old florid and orna-
mental school when ex-Speaker Tommy
Walker passed out. Tommy had learned
his job as a lecturer in England in the
days when Gladstone and Bright were
powers in the land, and though he had
only a smattering of scholarship his
fertile vocabulary helped to make him
an impressive platform figure. His
fevered appeals lost most of their
cogency in cold print, but Tommy had
taught elocution among his other varied
activities, and at “mouthing out his hollow
oes and aes” he could have held his own
with most revivalist preachers, including
Billy Sunday. “Mr. Dooley” I think it
was who once summed up an American
rhetorician’s speech in the remark “You
could waltz to it.” You couldn’t have
waltzed to one of Tommy’s impassioned
harangues, but one could feature it as a
fitting accompaniment to an Irish jig,
hornpipe or a can-can.


BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
;Representotives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne*
, Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Icwrzouvp*
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
October Issue Now on Sale.
WAR’S
effect on share prices:
A Special Survey
BALANCE SHEETS
CAREFULLY REVIEWED
—See what happened to
profits in the last war.
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £7/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Meetings.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
THE FORTY-EIGHTH ORDINARY GEN-
ERAL MEETING of Members will be held
at the Company's Offices on TUESDAY,
29th October, 1935, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to
30th September, 1935.
To elect one Director in place of John Henry
Smith Angus, Esq., who retires under
Clause 82 of the Articles of Association,
and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. W. R.
Chaplin & Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.) (who retire under Clause 131 of
the Articles of Association, and are eligible
for re-election), and to fix the amount of
their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
J. W. BARNES,
Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from 15th
October, 1935, to 29th October, 1935, inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
15th October, 1935.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Markets
A rising market is a lure for specula-
tors and investors, whether the market be
for land, shares, grain or metals. Buoy-
ancy begets buoyancy for a time, until
something happens to disturb confidence.
Then there is generally a relapse, the
more timid dabblers who buy to sell
quickly are shaken out, and cooler and
shrewder heads pick up what they want
at bargain prices. A new level of values
is consolidated, and, if commercial and
financial conditions favor higher profits
and commodity prices, an upward ten-
dency again prevails.
The last couple of years have seen
some ups and downs in many different
sets of prices. Wool rose steeply early
in 1934, crashed before the year had
half run, and is now firm again. Metals,
especially lead and zinc, slumped during
the two years 1933-34, and are now
buoyant largely on account of the pre-
vailing Mussolania. Tin, which rose
sharply in 1934 and dipped in 1935, has
been darling up and down in London in
a crazy fashion the last couple of weeks.
Wheat and butter are stronger in the
world’s markets than they have been for
some years.
The rise in lead particularly has
attracted speculators. Barrier mining
stocks have run up to high levels in the
sharemarket —Norths have not been so
high for many years—and undoubtedly
there must be excellent profits in pro-
duction of the Broken Hill metals at
present. But that part of the expansion
in metal prices due to the hostilities in
Africa cannot be relied upon with con-
fidence. The two countries at present
involved are liable to turn out bad payers
if operations are prolonged.
Australians have a very direct interest
in wool and wheat prices overseas, and
are concerned in many other commodi-
ties, including tin, through the share-
market. The Stock Exchange is an indi-
cator of confidence, or the lack of it, in
many financial and commercial avenues,
and the volume and tone of business
transacted on ’Change is always of
interest.
But there is an axiom to the effect that
“the market is always right” in its pre-
dictions and predilections. This is not
so, especially from the point of view of
those who buy shares for permanent in-
vestment. The market, meaning the
active element among investors and
speculators, is often shortsighted, some-
times panicky, and rarely a deep student
of the commercial conditions governing
profit and loss in the accounts of invest-
ment companies.
During 1935 there has been a series
of bumps in the upward progress of in-
vestment prices encouraged by better
trading conditions. The first and most
reasonable depression came in March,
when our financial outlook took on an
unhealthy complexion owing to the per-
sistent decline in wool prices, the less
favorable nature of the trade balance,
and large public borrowing proposals.
But wool picked up before business
felt the full effect of the previous low r
prices, and confidence revived. By July
the lost ground in the sharemarket was
more than regained. August, when the
June 30 balance sheets started to arrive,
showed spectacular improvement in
prices.
This table compares the “peaks” of
January and August with last Thursday’s
quotations:
Jan. Aug. Oct. 17.
£> s
Bank of N.S.W. . . 32 o’ 34 10’ 32 6
Xat. of A/sia (£5) 6 6 7 0 6 10
Queensland Ins. .. 213 3 0 218
Adelaide Steam .. 1 9} 112 111
Amal. Wireless .. 2 5 2 114 2 10
Australian Cement.. 15 1 12 1 11J
Australian Gas . . 8 2 8 4 7 15
Australian Glass . . 3 3 4 4 4 0
British Tobacco .. 2 0 2 1 1 19J
Broken Hill Prop. . 2 15 3 7 3 4
Burns, Philp . . 3 4 3 0 3 6
Colonial Sugar . . 42 10 45 10 43 2
Cumberland, ord. .. 1 13} 116 1 134
David Jones .. 2 l| 2 2 2 04
Pairymead Sugar .. 2 1 119 1 174
General Industries.. 14 10 174
Goldsbrough, Mort.. 110 112 111”
Gordon and Gotch. . 2 9 2 54 2 4
Herald & Weekly Times 218 36* 31
Metropolitan Gas .. 14 14 14 4 13 18
Permanent Trustee. . 174 18} 18
Prestige, 10s. ords... 194 184 19
Tooth and Co. .. 211 2 lo’ 2 18}
Usher’s Hotel .. 1 13 1 13 1 104
Walter Reid .. 1 164 1 16 1 lo"
Yarra Falls .. 1 174 2 2 1 18
Prices, though at present better than they
were, have not fully recovered from the
effects of the Abyssinian scare. Nearly
“It’s the drink, Hori. Give it up and see if you feel any better .”
“HoW 'bout I drink twice as much and see I feel any Worse ?”
every stock (with the definite exception
of Tooths brewery) is lower. Some ordi-
nary shares may be bought at prices
beneath the figure of nine months ago.
Where the companies are sound dividend-
payers with a future, it looks like an
opportunity.
Queensland Conditions
“X.T.”: The October report of the
Queensland Bureau of Industry backs up
the remarks of Ernest Riddle, governor
of the Commonwealth Bank, a few weeks
back —that there was far too much spend-
ing of Australian money outside the
Commonwealth, and also too much ex-
penditure of Government funds on non-
reproductive works. The bureau says
that the State’s prosperity index —95.2 in
August, against 99.9 in 1929 —has “been
maintained by the influence of building
activity.” Private building is more than
twice what it was last year, and, in addi-
tion, ambitious piles of new Government
offices are going up, both in the capital
and in country towns.
Mr. Brigden’s office also senses the pos-
sibility of a contraction in bank advances
throughout Australia owing to a fall in
the proportion of cash to advances, fol-
lowing the decline in London funds. (In
other States the same view is held.) There
is some comfort in the fact that the Com-
monwealth Bank can control the situa-
tion, but the Queensland banks’ cash-to-
liability ratio was 17.4 p.c. in the June
quarter last year, against only 12.9 p.c.
this year. The rates of advances to de-
posits is also rising. Share index reached
its highest point for six years last month,
but declined about 1 p.c.
Increasing wage-earner population is a
special problem in a State where the bulk
of staple industries are primary, with
little manufacturing to absorb the incre-
ment. Not counting 8190 men on relief
work, the proportion of unemployed to
the number of salary- and wage-earners in
August, was 15.7 p.c. Counting the relief
men in, it was only 11.2 p.c. But even
this means that there were 12,150 more
working than in 1929.
This month the A.M.P.’s funds passed
the £100,000,000 mark. That figure is
equal to about a twelfth of the Com-
monwealth’s national debt—one way of
indicating the remarkable growth of this
society by Australian standards of com-
parison. But the comparison finishes with
the figures, one set of which represents
the thrift of more than 1,050,000 policy-
holders, the other a burden of £lB4 14s.
per head of the population, a large part
of which, from an asset point of view, is
absolutely sunk and gone.
* * * *
Preference shares have been particu-
larly popular since the insecurity of in-
comes in 1930-32 sent investors searching
for safe securities. Nestle’s 8 p.cs. went
up to 38s. at one stage. Hordern Bros.’
firsts are at 295., British Tobacco 61 p.cs.
315., Berlei 8 p.cs. 295., Woolworth’s
10 p.cs. 41s. and 7 p.cs. 275., and Wun-
derlich 7 p.c. thirds 245. 6d. There has
been a weakening in the quotes for some
profs, recently, but so far to nothing
like the easing in Consols. Those share-
holders who are prepared to make a
change may find conversion from prefs.
to sound industrial ords. a wise move.
As a case in point, David Jones’s second
profs, at 30s. 6d. give approximately the
same yield as the same co.’s ords. at
41s. The prefs. are not likely to be paid
more than their maximum contract rate,
while prospects of a higher ord. div. are
bright.
* * * *
Australian Cement £1 shares in Mel-
bourne are changing hands at 31s. 9d.;
Kandos 16s. scrip in Sydney sells for
235. 6d. Each co. owns 1,000,000 shares
in Australian Portland Cement Pty., and
the ratio of these holdings to each £1
of paid capital in the holding cos. is 1.317
for the Australian co. and 1.454 for
Kandos. On a £1 for £1 holding co.
capital basis, though, the sharemarket
prices Kandos scrip at more than 2s.
below Australian Cement shares. Each
company has a handful of miscellaneous
assets, it is true, but Kandos scrip seems
undul> marked down.
* * * *
Choice Australian butter is selling in
London at 1275. sterling a hundredweight,
the highest price since September, 1930.
Low stocks and German buying are keep-
ing the market at a firm level. In Aus-
tralia the price remains at 1425. 6d. (Aus-
tralian) a hundredweight, which is about
15s. below London parity—ignoring
freight charges, etc. It’s not often that
Australians can buy Australian butter at
a price cheaper than that paid by Lon-
doners. It will be interesting to see how
the Dairy Products Boards handle the
situation now that exported butter is at
a premium. There will be a justifiable
howl if the local price is increased.
9fe * # *
The spectacular rise in tin last week
brought the London price up to £248 for
a short stage, the highest quote since
1928. The diversion of shipments to
Italy and France has caused an acute
shortage of the metal in Britain, and
stocks have been reduced to the lowest
level known. All things considered, the
price is speculative, though £220 sterling
a ton might be a fair figure. Italy is
doubtless stocking up, and, with in-
creased production permitted in the
Malay States, the shortage in Britain
may ease suddenly. At the same time
Malayan tin stocks, which the share-
market has been slow to bid up for, may
reap a substantial benefit, both from a
remunerative price and greater produc-
tion, during the period now current.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Had a sixtieth birthday, the
Adelaide Steamship Co., founded with
two Clyde-built boats, the South Aus-
tralian and Victorian, and designed for
just that trade. In 1882 it got all the
busy “gulf” trade of S.A. It boomed
in Westralian goldfield days, and steadily
acquired interests in every State and right
round the continent’s ports. Its biggest
outside deal was in tugs and collieries
with the J. A. Brown Co., of Newcastle.
Latterly it has developed in motor-ships,
and its latest venture is a subsidiary
Adelaide Airways Co. for reaching out-
lying islands and ports.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Sanders of the River”
Well-conceived, well-acted and well-
produced. The story has some sort of a
basis on the series of African yarns which
Edgar Wallace wrote before he went in
for the wholesale production of thrillers,
and the spirit of those romances has been
admirably captured.
Leslie Banks is the Resident Commis-
sioner Sanders Wallace created to the
fingertips, stern and unflinching, re-
spected yet loved. Paul Robeson as
Bosambo, whom Sanders makes first a
chief and then a king, is a figure of dig-
nity and strength, and his fine, resonant
voice dominates the picture almost as
much as his splendid physique. His first
entrance —a short interview with Sanders
—establishes his dramatic ability, and he
maintains the key through many exacting
scenes.
Robeson’s songs, claimed to be actual
African chants, include the ferocious
“Killing Song” and the “Canoe Song,”
to the beat of which a score of canoes,
each manned by about 80 paddlers, speed
down a swollen river. The war dances
and other tribal ceremonies are realistic
and impressive, and some of the inciden-
tal pictures of herds of wild animals,
photographed at short range, are gems
of their kind.
The climax, Sanders arriving in an
antiquated paddle-steamer in the nick of
time to save Bosambo from death at the
hands of a rebel king, is pure melodrama,
but it’s in the book. Not much scope is
given to Lieut. Tibbetts, but there wasn’t
room to do him justice. One of the best
films of the year, and quite the best of
Sydney’s current crop. At Sydney State.
“Hard Rock Harrigan”
Though woven in fustian, a good
dramatic situation is worked into the
texture of this talkie about tunnel-
workers. The big strong men who con-
tend for the favor of the pretty waitress
in their dining-room are George O’Brien
and Fred Kohler. Just before they meet
for a fist-fight Kohler has to rescue
O’Brien, trapped by a fall of rock. Com-
pany doctor, when all hands are getting
Ralph Lynn in “Stormy Weather,” at
Sydney Embassy.
attention after a tough experience, tells
O’Brien that Kohler’s heart is wonky.
A scrap might kill him ; the shock of
being told his condition would also be
very bad. So O’Brien has to crayfish
out of the battle. He tries to explain
matters to the goil (Irene Hervey), but
she puts it down as a cold-feet alibi.
Ending is happy, tunnel sequences are
well done and the mental atmosphere of
a construction-gang camp is very suc-
cessfully captured. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Goose and the Gander”
A clever variant on the eternal quad-
rangle —husband and his light-of-love
and wifey and her lover. Matters
are complicated by the presence of the
divorced first wife of the husband, and
also of a jewel thief and his partner who
are masquerading as the second wife and
her lover. Dialogue is crisp, and the
acting—Kay Francis, George Brent,
Robertson hare in “Stormy Weather.”
Genevieve Tobin, Helen Lowell and
Ralph Forbes, in various combinations,
look after most of it—can’t be faulted.
Good entertainment. At Sydney Regent.
“Flirtation Walk”
Also at the Regent. A medley of
Hawaii, West Point, musical comedy
and ballets. Opens with a glimpse of
Uncle Sam’s Navy and Air Force
manoeuvres near Honolulu, switches to
barracks on the island, and dallies awhile
for a Hawaiian love feast in which
a hundred or so girls and men go through
geometric stage ballets before a back-
ground of jungle. After a song or two
by Dick Powell, the scene shifts to West
Point. Here life is one long uniformed
parade, with very occasional interrup-
tions while the Republic’s future officers
discuss the definition of leather or the
charms of a pretty girl (Ruby Keeler).
Saturday’s audience seemed to enjoy it.
“Stormy Weather”
A Ben Travers comedy. Tom Walls
is a commercial magnate, Sir Duncan
Gragg, bad, bold and businesslike. His
French wife (Yvonne Arnaud) pro-
nounces his Christian name to rhyme
with “Coon-can.” The knight is the
complete rake ; his lady has the manner
of the complete cocotte. They under-
stand each other. Ralph Lynn, who
hasn’t learned a single new trick in the
silly-ass business, is manager of one of
the branches of a great drapery firm of
which Cragg has suddenly become man-
aging director. Cragg strolls into the
shop, is made to wait while half a dozen
girls finish a merry argument, and then
is told he’s at the wrong counter. He
barks. The duchess of the hosiery de-
partment calls manager Lynn to eject the
mannerless person. After that it is all
philandery and bedrooms in the well-
known Travers style, while Lynn, seek-
ing to make peace with Sir Dooncan,
falls into the toils of Lady Cragg. The
lady is abducted by a person with a
German accent who claims to be a Rus-
sian, and who has his lair in a Chinese
laundry. She is rescued by Lynn, whose
reward is that at the fade-out Walls kicks
him down a flight of 48 stairs —a kick
for each four steps. Dialogue is naughty,
action brisk. At Sydney Embassy.
“Look Up and Laugh”
An attempt to translate English music-
hall technique to the screen. Gracie
Fields frequently bursts into song, but
the songs are tripe. She shows her
powers as a comedian only once, in a
burlesque of a prima donna singing
“Ah Fors e Lui,” which is as funny as
anything Delysia did in Australia. The
rest is bladder-whackery boisterousness
of a sort that was found to lack appeal
in about the second year of the silents.
An autogyro is introduced, apparently so
that Miss Fields can be air-sick ; glass
and crockery are broken in tremendous
quantities, and most of the characters
appear to be escapees from a lunatic
asylum. At Sydney Lyceum.
“The Silent Passenger”
Honors in this excellent English thriller
belong to Peter Haddon, who looks a
bit like ex-King Alphonso, does silly-ass
business rather more effectively than
Ralph Lynn can, and stirs a lot of
shrewdness and determination into the
mixture without incongruity. Story
open with a murder, but no mystery, the
audience being shown the whole of the
circumstances of the crime, which has
elements of originality. A railway official,
in the toils of a blackmailer, puts on a
porter’s hat and jacket and totes a huge
trunk to the hotel where his persecutor
is staying. He slays the blackmailer, lugs
in the trunk, pops the body in. then,
changing porter’s attire for a coat and
hat brought in the trunk, walks away. If
Lord Peter Wimsey (P. Haddon) hadn’t
noticed that the porter had creases in
his pants, hero John Loder and heroine
Mary Newland would have been very
unlucky people. Casting is good,
dialogue intelligent, and interest well
sustained. Also at the Lyceum.
“Love Me Forever”
It was a grand-opera audience which
gathered at the preview of “Love Me
Forever,” with Grace Moore, at Melb.
Plaza, and it was a grand-opera picture
which was presented. Built on the “Love
Me To-night” formula, the affair is
seasoned by excerpts from “Boheme.”
Stringing together the musical part of the
Grade Fields in “Look Up and Laugh,”
at Sydney Lyceum.
entertainment is an even thinner story
than that which carried Miss Moore’s
earlier success. Leo Carrillo is the
Italian manager of a cabaret show, push-
ing the girl forward until he wins her
love by setting her on the stage of the
N.Y. Metropolitan Opera House. The
staging is beautiful, but the voice is the
thing. Miss Moore’s dulcet tones would
coax a sardine off a piece of toast.
Some First Nights
Sydney Town Hall is not kind to
violinists, but 14-year-old George Welsh
Farrell, who made his bow on Saturday
night to an audience of the city's most
Peter Haddon in “The Silent Passenger,”
at Sydney Lyceum.
confirmed conccri-goers, came through a
stiff ordeal with flying colors. In a
technical sense the lad has mastered his
instrument. There are no digital diffi-
culties left for him to conquer, as he
demonstrated in a performance of the
Bach Chaconne. Johann Sebastian saw
no reason why the fiddle should not deal
in polyphony, and in this stately dance
he made it play its own accompaniment.
Farrell revels in that sort of thing, and
in the D Major Concerto of Paganini
(with the Wilhelmj cadenza), the ever-
popular “Gipsy Airs” of Sarasate and the
graceful “Scherzo Tarantelle” of Wieni-
awski he further established his claim to
be competent to tackle anything in violin
literature.
Rather more impressive than this dis-
play of rapid fingering are the facts that
Farrell produces a full, round, robust
tone and that his phrasing is tasteful
and sympathetic. In an adagio move-
ment by Beethoven’s friend Ferdinand
Ries, the young player gave a thoroughly
musicianly reading of a fine slow
melody; in Sarasate’s “Romanza
Andaluza” he made clear the reminiscent
and nostalgic character of the work.
Accompanying the youngster was his
father, G. W. Farrell, who in solo offer-
ings played Tausig, Brahms, Liszt, Chopin
and Mendelssohn in a manner that indi-
cated whence his son inherits his stern
conscience in the matters of technique
and phrasing. Farrell, senior, is a pianist
of such brilliance and authority that had
he been billed as Farsniffsky and had
come here with an imprimatur from
Prague or Moscow he would be ac-
claimed as a great virtuoso.
*s* 4* 4* 4*
In his introductory remarks to the
first production of “Flame of Desire” at
Melb. Apollo, Ernest Rolls asked that
the play might be judged solely on its
merits, without patriotic bias. Flere it
is so judged, and. bracketed equal with
the average imported musical comedy in
book and dialogue (written by Mr. Rolls
and J. L. Gray) and 10 per cent, ahead
in the music (by Jack O’Flagan). But it
is the part of the play which would be
done here in any event which made the
initial performance the success it was—
production, orchestra, ballets and especi-
ally scenery and costumes. There was
no straining after originality, but every
change of costume fitted its background.
Prettiest picture was a moonlight scene
outside a palace—all green and blue, with
one dot of orange provided by the lamp
of a stairway. Before this danced girls
in the white frilly skirts of ballerinas.
The story is located in an imaginary
European kingdom. The leading actors
are Americans. Ethelind Terry, who is
a princess, acts and sings nicely ; William
O’Neal as her lover has the lion’s
share of the music, and his song “Flame
of Desire” should shortly be a favorite


s)S)
r
Cm
©
(OLVV
rv'PCv
to’
V>x'
Try Pathfinder—
IF YOU PREFER A VIRGINIAN TOBACCO
You'll like Pathfinder Gold Bars. It's a straight Virginian
Tobacco of medium strength, delightful flavour and aroma.
2oz. packets, 1/9; lib. boxes, 7/-;
11b. tins, 14/- .... Postage extra.
For making your own cigarettes try
Pathfinder fine-cut . . . same prices!
The five most popular shapes in David Jones' Standard Briar
Pipes are illustrated above. British made throughout. Each, 5/-
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
FORDSON Increases Profits
by Lowering Harvesting Costs
</
7ft
1*
ECONOMICAL POWER: 14 H.P. at Drawbar-26 H.P. on Beit
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
The pneumatic-tyred English Fordson has
proved its ability to increase farming profits
by reducing production costs. Throughout
Australia the demand for this equipment is
growing—new sales records are being estab-
lished. With pneumatic tyres Fordson is
adaptable to all classes of ploughing, har-
vesting and haulage. High top gear ensures
quick transport of 5-6 ton loads from pad-
dock to railway;
Features of the English Fordson:
CLUTCH PULLEY...POWER TAKE OFF
(optional at extra cost)...GOVERNOR
CONTROL...“HOT SPOT” VAPORISER
... HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION ...
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
...SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM
...CRANKCASE VENTILATION
EASY PAYMENTS: Bv using the special Fordson Pur-
chase Plan your Tractor will earn its cost before you pay.
Easy payments sp-ead to suit your convenience ask your
Dealer for particulars.
Fordson
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEM
Tractor
ONSTRATE
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS
Queensland ;
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
South Australia: ADELAIDE CAR
& TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COxMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F.27.27.T
FORDSON PRICE HAS BEEN REDUCED/
with bathroom baritones. Nellie Breen,
who is Tina, a maid, sings well and
dances beautifully. Bert Matthews and
Lester Allen provide comedy as two
crooks who descend on the kingdom
from a parachute and are mistaken for
foreign capitalists expected to turn up
and save the country. A remarkable
piece of trickwork is used for the final
curtain. There is a tableau showing the
“Nature’s Framing,” a pencil drawing by Douglas Pratt at the Grosvenor Galleries,
Sydney.
interior of a cathedral, sombre and
dignified, the altar at the back and the
congregation, sombrely clad, with backs
to the audience. In a flash the scene
shifts to outdoors in bright sunlight, with
everybody in holiday attire and a wealth
of color everywhere.
+ + *J*
A mixture of musical modes occupied
Bernard Heinze and the Symphony
Orchestra at the Melbourne Town Hall
on Saturday night. A packed house
listened to the Tschaikowsky Symphony
No. 5 in E Minor, and if the programme
is to be believed what it heard were the
note of nightingales, the voice of the
moon and the dreaming of trees alterna-
ting with peasants telling jokes and
dancing at a funeral; but there were a
lovely andante cantabile and a finale
which was deafening. Richard Strauss’s
symphonic poem “Till Eugenspiel’
followed ; Debussy described this work
as “an hour of new music at the mad-
house,” and parts of it sounded like bits
of machinery put in an iron tank and
rolled downhill. Browning Mummery
sang Handel’s “Where’er You Walk,”
from the stationary opera “Semele,” in
magnificent style ; it is a lovely air.
Puccini’s “Your Tiny Hand Is Frozen ’
was sung with operatic fervor, but the
distinguished vocalist’s tenor stalled sud-
denly on the last few bars ; he recovered
himself, but when an encore was de-
manded he politely shook his head. The
martial finish of “Les Preludes” (Liszt)
concluded the evening with another crisis
of sound which leaves description,
already beggared, obliged to take out a
mortgage to buy a few extra adjectives.
Current Artbursts
Douglas Pratt, whose pencil drawings
and etchings decorate the walls of the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, is above
all things a precise judge of values. Occa-
sionally he tries to make his pencil say
things beyond its vocabulary, but the
degree to which he can make it talk in-
telligibly is extensive. The little repro-
duction on this page must speak for his
technique in this regard. There are
three oil-paintings in the show —“Rush-
cutter Bay,” “The Road to Palm Beach”
and “Thunder Clouds and Tree Tops.”
All are conscientious in the best sense
of the term without being at all labored.
There is no attempt at idealisation. Color
and form are transcribed as they were
seen, with remarkable fidelity, and the
result still makes a good picture. The
vestiges of Fourth Georgian and early-
Victorian Sydney intrigue Pratt as they
do every other lover of the town, and
his drawings of old buildings are correct
in proportions. St. James’s spire, dis-
torted almost out of recognition by 999
out of 1000 of the folk who attempt to
draw it, gets its right slant from this
very sensitive and painstaking draughts-
man.
4* *1* 4*
“Too right” is the only criticism
which could be levelled against the 30
water-colors which Harold Herbert ex-
hibits at Melbourne Fine Arts gallery.
They are not over-finished, conforming
to the artistic law that the mark of the
tool should be left on the finished work,
but all the same they present Mother
Nature with lipstick and plucked eye-
brows. Apparently Herbert has grown
once more to love the Australian land-
scape. After his return from Europe his
work showed that he had lost some of
his affection; that attitude has dis-
appeared, and in the present collection
are water-colors which challenge com-
parison with anything he did in France
or Morocco. Most of his pictures bear
his signature in their craftsmanship.
Chief among his offerings are “Old
Queenscliff,” depicting the beach under
a soft, beautiful light. Neither light nor
shadow puzzles the artist, as he proves
in “The Bridge and Under,” “Queens-
cliff Boats,” “indented Head” and “Lome
Beach.” The collection recalls the ob-
servation of Madame de Sevigne. “It is
like cherries ; you set out to choose the
best and empty the basket.”


If*
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with orivate bathroom, from 22/-.
'
m
HOTEL
IHTMH
HNllMflltl
■Hll-H
In the Heart of Beautiful Germany
Buy for future profitable selling at
the largest and oldest market in
the world. Newest inventions in
mechanical and labor-saving equip-
ment, latest styles in textiles, and
most modern industrial processes,
from 25 different countries, are dis-
played at prices that permit of most
satisfactory re-sale margins.
COMMENCES MARCH 1.
VISIT THE
OLYMPIC
GAMES,
BERLIN, 1936.
Official Rep.,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office Equipment, Furniture,
Sports Goods, Engineering and Building and Photographic Fairs.
All Information, including Barter Arrangements, from:—
LABS G. BRUNDAHL. Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair,
Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O. Box No. 3127 P, Sydney. Phone: B4OOG.
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
C. N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard and Co., 360 Post Office Place; G.P.O. Box 1658,
Melbourne.
H. C. ITTER&'HAGEN. Shenton Park, West Australia.
Missing; Beneficiary.
GEORGE ALBERT CONWAY, late of Bluff,
New Zealand, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Invercargill,
New Zealand.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL KEITH WATSON WATERHOUSE,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand?
WILSON—WiII any person knowing the
whereabouts of JOHN ISAAC WILSON,
formerly of Bulumwaal, near Bairnsdale, Vic-
toria, please communicate with THE PER;
PETUAL EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
of 100-104 Queen Street, Melbourne (Admini-
strator of the Estate of John Robinson Wilson,
deceased), or MESSRS. COMMINS &
WARREN, Solicitors, Bairnsdale?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Prince Alfred’s had a red-letter day
last week. Four foundation stones were
unveiled and a solarium was opened.
Amid the crannies and turnings of the
red-brick colony of healing there are
still some green patches, palm, eucalypt
and other trees, brave to the last toss of
their shining heads. Whether there will
be a blade left when the institution has
got rid of its growing pains is a bit
problematic. The Governor, Minister
for Health Fitzsimons, board chairman
Dr. Schlink and the Premier were all in-
volved in laying the stones bare to the
public gaze, and they were followed
from site to site by large masses of in-
terested citizenry.
The nurses, perhaps the hardest-fight-
ing unit of the P.A. army, are going to
have a swagger home that will lift its
head eight storeys high, rising on the
right foundation —a floor equipped as a
training school. It will cost £42,500;
£4OOO of this is a bequest from the late
Sister Sanders, a former trainee. A
psychiatry, neuro-medical and neuro-
surgical pavilion; an intermediate hos-
pital, to be known as Gloucester House ;
and a new outpatients’ department, on
the other side of the street, complete the
wholesale offering to the building trade.
Preceding their bird’s-eye view of
foundation stones, hundreds of impor-
tants were served with a Danish break-
fast in the common room of the nurses’
quarters. After traversing miles of cor-
ridor, millions of steps, passing between
guards of nurses —very trig in their uni-
forms —and glimpsing what at first sight
appeared an agitated snowstorm, but
turned out to be heads of white-capped
probationers watching from far-off bal-
conies, the food was arrived at. Heavens!
what a display! A turkey as large as an
emu at the head of the table, fish done
in many ways, rosy crab, pumpkins hol-
lowed out and filled with meat and
fish balls, cold meats, foie gras and
cheese that had been soaked in rum for
who knows how long. You didn’t
wonder that Hamlet had seen his father’s
ghost, for, if breakfast was such, what
must the dinners in Elsinore have been
like?
Dr. Bertie Schlink, the Premier, Gwen
Stevens, hers a slim silhouette in green,
and Matron B. J. Dun topped the last
flight of steps with a welcome, and near
by was Mrs. Earle Page. She and other
ladies smiled over memories of the days
they trained at P.A. Philip Street’s wife,
who later opened the solarium, flashed
currant-red Locking. Matron de Mer-
rall, who had arranged the breakfast,
talked Scandinavian food to Walter and
John Pye ; Commander Gifford rushed
breathlessly hither and thither, and Mrs.
Rayner wore an apricot-yellow frock that
swung a fur-trimmed cape. Mrs. Nor-
man Lowe’s hat was white-lace-covered,
and her white frock was worn with a
Paisley coat. Mrs. Bertie Kelly was
severely black. Among palates tickled
were those of the C. L. Jones coupje, the
A, C. Davidsons and Syd Ure Smith —
seen serving Mollie Grey, who had helped
design the room’s decorations, with
seemingly honey-flavored fruit cup. Pat
Farquharson, Jocelyn Poynter and Mrs.
Alexis Albert were there ; so were Syd-
ney’s new Rabbi and his wife, Margaret
Allen, Knoxes and Macarthur Onslows.
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, her frock pat-
terned in rose, told of the coming of
daughter Margaret (Mrs. Moore, ot
Ceylon) and granddaughter Mary Jane.
One of the pleasures of the day was
meeting the hospital’s old stalwarts such
as Dr. Foreman and Dr. Cecil Purser.
White sails caracoling on its blue
waterfront, red chairs on its green lawns
behind the whale’s ribs that arch its
entrance, gave the Yacht Club at Kirri-
billi the right gala air on Saturday. The
sailing season had opened, and the hoary
old club smiled on the flag-dressed craft
that lolled about her doorstep, and on
the streaming sails far off on the water-
ways. The rooms were lush with orchids,
lupins and iris. Frocks varied from
sports to chiffon models —all had a touch
of swagger. Consuls came, quite a
flutter of them with their wives. There
were Rosses and Milsons. Alberts,
Prings and Windeyers. Mrs. Don Taylor
once again watched the racing ; so did
Judge Backhaus.
Evelyn Gardiner, of the Gilsullivan
company, and erstwhile Police Commis-
sioner Childs were all becks and
wreathed smiles the other morning when
they met to discuss the Gilsullivan Ball.
Among other things the former police
chief confided was that just 50 years ago
in the streets of a country town he heard
a band playing “Pirates of Penzance”
numbers ; from that moment he was a
G. and S. devotee. The meeting took
place in the Australia. There was emotion
in Gregory Stroud’s voice as he men-
tioned Lee White, whose name is to be
coupled with those of G. and S. in the
endowment of a room at Dalwood, for
which the ball on the Nieuw Holland is
being organised.
Herewith a Falk picture of Mrs. A.
Pollok, the golden-haired sister-in-law of
Lady Hore-Ruthven, who has been help-
ing Mrs. O’Brien to put an extra glint
into Government House doings. Yester-
day Mrs. Pollok sailed for the Barrier
Reef, whither the very modern Mrs.
O’Brien had preceded her. There’s quite
a party of them making for the Hugh
Brasseys’ place on Dunk Island. As
they are all related in varying degrees,
there should be a jolly family house-
warming in the establishment which the
Hon. Hugh hopes to invest with the
comforts of a fashionable resort on the
Riviera. A Belgian cook is an important
member of the household.
Last Friday afternoon the fierce white
light of Kleig lamps beat upon the audi-
torium of David Jones’s, picking out the
greenwood pattern on Mrs. Myra
Millingen’s frock, the rust fox fur that
outlined the round neck of Mrs. Tier’s
henna chitfons, the green of Mrs.
Thwaites and the Patou-pink top to
Miss Musson’s black satin skirt. Around
these hopes of Victoria and Sydney, tense
spectators, scarcely daring to breathe,
stood four deep. One little man who
swallowed convulsively in his excitement
was hurried away by a scandalised wife
—as the Girl in the Flat Opposite said,
“Charlotte’s ruse for the Adam’s apple.”
Each group of this inter-State bridge
seance was roped off from the multitude,
and at the back of the auditorium,
threatening every moment to make havoc
of the cream puffs, stern cameramen
bustled about amid the tea-tables direct-
ing a penetrating beam now on one of
Victoria's vice-presidents, Mrs. Hider-
Smith, till the ribbon on her parchment
hat shone apple-green and the kilted frills
that fringed her short sleeves were
verdant as a garden border. Now the
saxe-blue of Mrs. Greer (N.S.W.) deep-
ened. the red of Mrs. Donellan's frock
glowed ruby, and amid the South Aus-
tralians a player in royal-blue conquered
the gaze. All the players, although it
was sunlit afternoon, were in evening
clothes, for purposes of the movie.
This is a Falk picture of Barbara
Peden, taken just before she sailed for
England to continue her studies in archi-
tecture. Barbara is one of Sydney Uni.’s
women graduates in this subject.
John Peden, President of the Legislative
Council, has completed his 25th year
as Dean of the Faculty of Law in
Sydney University. To mark the silver
jubilee members of the Law Society pre-
sented him with a portrait of himself.
The artist was Hanke, who probably
knew what stagefright was when he saw
his work unveiled and flashed before the
gaze of hundreds of men of law, among
them new Supreme Court Justice Tom
Bavin. The unveiling was done at the
Law Society’s annual dinner; the por-
trait shows the knight in the wig and
robes of his profession.
Government House ladies have de-
veloped the most dazzling crop of
ostrich-feather plumage. Capes in blue
and green have already been glimpsed,
and at Susan Davies’s concert Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s neck and chin emerged from
roseate feathers. Susan being the daugh-
ter of an archdeacon, the Church was
well represented in the Conservatorium
audience. Archbishop Mowll and his
wife were there, the Macarthur Onslows,
the Henry Braddons and Gwen Stevens,
who brought her mother. The Alex-
ander Gordon lady, who skippered the
success, was content, not only with the
capacity house, but with Susan. The
young violinist wore white lace sashed
in green, the ends falling down the front
of her frock. The green brought out
the red-gold of her hair. Susan’s mother,
sisters and brothers and lots of hockey
girls were appreciative listeners.
The news of Philip Game’s wed-
ding to his Ann White, in Dorset, is
still the subject of much chat among the
bright young things who were constants
at Philip’s parties when the fair-haired
young man’s father was Governor of
New South Wales. Philip has a job with
Anglo-Persian Oil, and is even now
settling in the land of Omar.
Violinist Leo Cherniavsky is probably
one of the most envied men in Sydney.
His wife arrived by the Moldavia ready
and eager to start cooking for him. In
her luggage she brought a special gas
stove, cast aluminium saucepans, a
French braizing kettle and other culinary
implements. Mrs. Cherniavsky is one cf
those heaven-born cooks who can tickle
the palate without ruining the digestion.
The address is Hampton Court.
Enfield has a young woman for acting-
Town Clerk. She is Gwen Doe, who
has been with the council for several
years, and knows all its wards and
works. She is doing her job with the
quiet efficiency that is the way of the
sex.
Tattersall’s had a fine day for its
spring meeting. Randwick was all pansy
faces (in the flower-beds) and lightweight
frocks hung about with rich furs. Stands
were crowded, and every woman who
felt that, born in the right period, she
would have been a Cleopatra backed
Mark Anthony, and won at least the
first instalment on a pearl.
Whole contingents of the Hay family
gazed at the racing. Mrs. Dundas
Allen’s prints were attractive ; Mrs. M.
Irvine’s silk repps were cobalt blue.
Marie O’Brien wore her white-flowered
navy silks with the right air and a hat
that was, in its white shadiness, an in-
spiration. Mrs. Harold Weigall contri-
buted red-and-white stripes. White
Arctic fox seemed trying to oust its
silver brother. One of the smartest was
the John McKelvey lady. Her bark-
brown dress fitted her slimness; her
Tuscan hat, worn in the new way,
straight on the head, had a dip in the
front, where it was trimmed with a flat
brown bow.
The cool shade of Douglas Pratt's
trees is to be found in almost every gal-
lery in Australia. Minister for Educa-
tion Drummond said so, and his hearers
at the opening of this artist’s show of
pencil-drawings at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries were not surprised. Light and a
sense of tranquil movement are con-
veyed by Mr. Pratt’s pencil, and his
wife, her blue frock spattered with red
discs, was as showered with congratula-
tions as a bride with confetti. Lloyd
Rees and Pixie O’Harris, pleased with
her new children’s book, “Sea Greenie
and Pearl Pinkie,” were beholders; so
was Mrs. W. Buckle. A black taffeta
pleated Peter Pan collar finished off her
mignonette-green frock.
Earl Beauchamp is now installed in his
home on Bellevue Hill, from the bal-
conies of which he can gaze out over his
beloved harbor. Also, he is within a
few minutes’ run of Bondi beach. A
tennis court and a full-size Alsatian are
other bits of comfort around the home.
Already bits of Tahitian color and
velvet curtains, red as a cardinal’s hat,
liven up the general color scheme of
brown. The bar has high stools, a wide-
flung view, tiers of bottles and an expert
mixer. Already shelves of books are ail
over the house.
Every second studio lit at least one
candle last week to celebrate Clarence
Murphy’s return. Dora Jarrett repatri-
ated him amid a welter of actors,
painters, writers, rye bread, anchovies
and olives. Mrs. Bell Allen gave an
afternoon-tea and chat, and so on. An
interesting woman the Sydney man met
was Elisabet Soderman, Sweden’s noted
woman politician. With true Northern
hospitality, Mrs. Soderman and her sister
Mrs. Thomas took their Australian guest
a motor tour of 1400 miles to Norway.
Always a dignified little man, Mayor
Parker last week retired from office
wrapped in the awful dignity of death.
Swift and silent as time that overtakes
us all, a line of cars, half a mile or more
of them, followed as he led along his
city’s streets. Flowers piled high on five
cars flung out fragrance to his memory.


Jorrt. <* oor
° nlV
itoi* vet P eace
f n C an ® leVaU
P° 6iti ° n rr #fcJ
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1161 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELSIE MAY DONNELLY Peti-
tioner
And THOMAS RUPERT DONNELLY
Respondent.
TO THOMAS RUPERT DONNELLY for-
merly of 38 Silver Street Marrickville and
Despointes Street Marrickville in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE MAY
DONNELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted the Petitioner and without
any such cause or excuse left her continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on
or before the Fifteenth day of January One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six, and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of October,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
wi'mii
KUWV4
MARE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GLLMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
To the Caulfield Cup came everything
from fur coats to evening frocks. A.
close-up at which one woman disparag-
ingly hissed “Definitely Sydney!” was a
stiff-brimmed white hat large as the sail
of a ship, its square corners a menace
to eyes and noses in the vicinity. An-
other girl wore slices of pink lace
appliqued on black satin, and her off-
sider’s earrings, alternately “radishes”
and pearls, dangled right on to the
wearer’s shoulders. A vision with a tighT
mop of curls and two cabbages under
the brim of her hat lifted punters out
of their troubles—for the moment, at
least.
Mrs. Jervis Crespin was distinctive in
her ash-rose light woollen dress and a
brown hat with a wee veil. With her
beige suit Lil Woolcock wore foxes, one
a shade lighter than its twin brother.
Marea Lucas had a spotted waistcoat
with her grey tweeds, and Mary Wren a
blouse of red and white deck-chair
stripes with her linen suit. Nina Rebot-
taro, among the hundreds in navy, had
her large hat turned up like a saucer all
the way round. Another punter in navy
was Lorna Mooney. Betty Abbott wore
cruise grey; Mrs. Ron Nettlefold, a
short-sleeved suit of lime-green, accom-
panied by shoes, bag and crinoline hat
of nut-brown. Pat Mills hung seven-
eighths of navy-blue cape over a floral
dress. Mrs. Furze-Morrish was also
caped, all in wine-red ; her hat was a
halo and her earrings were two large
pearls.
Dick Devon, a starter in the Cup,
apparently knew the glittering golden
trophy was not for him, and showed his
lack of reverence by trying to kick it
over ; its guardian, who was never more
than two yards away from the prize and
probably had an automatic in each
pocket, picked it up and ran with com-
mendable speed to the other side of the
clock.
The Duntroon was given a coming-
out party worthy of her maiden voyage.
Hessian and flags made an alleyway
through the baggage sheds on the wharf,
colored lights twinkled on the gangway
and more colored lights hung over the
deck, where dancers stepped out to
rhythm in aid of the Alfred and the Mis-
sion to Seamen. Everyone said flattering
things about the debutante of the inter-
state fleet, with her expensive panelling,
beautiful smokeroom and lounge, her
lift (small, but a lift) and dining-room,
where seagulls flutter on the frosted
window panes. The sports deck is also
a Lido deck, with small tables placed
round the rails. It must be delightful in
warm weather.
Something quite new are the Dun-
troon’s clocks, built into mirrors so that
the hands go sailing over the polished
surface with no sign of the works behind.
Captain Lloyd sat at the head of the
official supper-table, at the back of which
was a beauteous bank of roses from
Alistair Clark’s garden at Bulla. Ticket
secs, were Jean York Syme, who wore
a whole branch of orchids on her
shoulder; Joan Watt, in buttercup
organdie, and Cassi Fanning, in blue and
a white velvet coat. Yvonne Cox tied a
blue sash round her garden-of-flowers
crepe de Chine, and Sue Fincham kicked
black ruffles at the hem of her red-and-
white-check taffeta. Cassi Humphries
wore a bunch of white camellias in her
hair ; Beryl Couchman cut a split skirl
of flowered moire, and Nan Jacobs, with
narrow shoulder straps attaching her
shadowy floral taffeta, had tomato-var-
nished toes peeping out of silver sandals.
Joan Black had a starchy ruffle round
her throat, and cubist lilies grew on her
taffeta frock. Gwen Thomas wore pink,
and her arms were thrust under the paws
of silver fox cape. Mary York Syme
wrapped a cedar-brown velvet coat over
a white satin gown. The band played on
deck and, through loudspeakers, in
various parts of the ship ; and all the time
winches, so silent that nobody would
have suspected there were people work-
ing next door to the party, loaded beer
and steel girders.
Here is the queen of the forget-me-
nots, Freda Connolly, for whose candi-
dature in the Queen Carnival there will
be an Edwardian Ball at The Grange,
Toorak, on Friday, October 25. Mrs.
Arnold Richardson and Maisie Curtis are
ticket secs, for the frivol, at which every-
one will wear their parents’ or their
friends’ parents’ waxed whiskers fas
shown in old wedding groups), strangula-
tion collars and bustles of 1900-1910.
The forget-me-not queen represents the
Deaf and Dumb Institution, which has
never before, in 75 years of existence,
made a public appeal for funds. Broo-
thorn’s camera snapped Miss Connolly,
who is the younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Eric Connolly.
The Australian Artillery Third Military
District went over the top last week at
the Gunners’ Ball in St. Kilda Town
Hall. A great array of trophies of all
sizes and shapes, booty of the gunners’
straight shooting, were brought on their
annual journey to the dancing front from
their dugout in the officers’ mess of the
Artillery Barracks. Overhead was a
barrage of scarlet and blue, the same
colors decked the supper-tables and
drinks flowed merrily against the Rock
of Gibraltar (the city fathers’ library).
Young gunners in full fighting kit of
leggings and perky little gob caps
guarded the door, distributed programmes
and blew their bugles for “nosebags” in
two sittings. A very striking couple were
Col. and Mrs. W. H. St. Clair, who
presided at the official receiving. Col.
John McCormack was there, and
Colonel Briggs enjoyed himself in his
“Robin Redbreast” and beloved monocle.
Major Nimmo’s wife wore a lus-
trous gown of aquamarine satin.
The Norman Jeffries couple (she very
old-world with her curled fringe and
bouffant lime-green taffetas) were with
a biggish party—as a curtain-raiser
they had entertained 40 of their friends
to cocktails and a buffet dinner. Upon
her ink-blue satin Mrs. Ernest Jones
draped one of the new angel scarves
with long wings falling over the
shoulders. Pink camellias grew across
the neck of Iris Hearle’s black frock, and
tulips reared flame-colored heads upon
the shoulder of Mrs. F. W. Haig’s
flowered crepe.
Shoes and sash of emerald-green were
Mrs. Fred Matear’s cheer-up for black.
Mrs. L. R. Stillman wore willow-green
taffeta very fluffy at the back, Mrs.
Howard Love chose blue-and-red roses,
and Mollie Yewers silk sheer patterned
with black and green blossoms. Mrs.
John Clareborough’s long-hair bob swept
the shoulder-straps of her nettle-green
gown, with its elaborate cutwork pattern
across the back. Yvonne Brin’s white
dress went with a sapphire velvet coat.
Flight-Lieut, White’s wife wore blue and
a white coat, and Flight-Lieut. Tom
Curnow’s bride, from Brisbane, had a
white collar round the square neck of her
frock. Tall, slim and charming was Mrs.
John Sexty in her black skirt and little
basqued blouse of jade taffeta.
There’s always a thrill about a mys-
tery. Excitement ran high at Little
Milton at the dance given by the Six
Mysterious Maidens. Tickets had been
issued through Mr. Robot, Toorak Post
Office, nearly everybody wore fancy
dress and warnings were issued before-
hand that masks were necessary for ad-
mission. People who solved the riddle
of the mysterious six received gifts of
cigarettes, and at the midnight unmask-
ing any lad who found himself dancing
with a mysterious maid was given a
prize. The unknowns turned to to be
Phyllis Timmins, as a Dutch girl; Maisie
Cowper, as a Pierrette ; Bunty Govett, a
senorita of Old Spain ; Nancy Griffiths,
in powder and patches; Lola Thring,
as Marie Antoinette, and Rosemary
Downes, as the Ace of Spades. To help
with the exchequer a soothsayer had
visions of twinkling jewellery, journeys
across the water and dark men cross-
ing the path. Mrs. A. L. Moran, who
opened her home for the party and the
Melbourne Hospital, was unable to be
present through illness, but her daugh-
ters rose to the occasion and did the
honors.
Wearing the little velvet beret is Vaire,
only daughter of Major and Mrs.
Harold Wilkinson. Vaire has not yet
made her debut at dances, but she some-
times goes to the races. This year she’ll
miss the Melbourne Cup, but instead is
looking forward to a November holiday
in Adelaide with her relations Mr. and
Mrs. L. Sanders. The lass is already
a competent cook, especially over deco-
rative things like birthday cakes, and
she knits beautiful dresses, jumpers and
woolly jackets. The Wilkinson family
has always lived in a vice-regal atmo-
sphere ; Major Wilkinson has in his time
been private secretary to eight Gov-
ernors in two States —Vic. and W.A.
Broothorn picture.
The seven candidates for the queen
carnival are working hard day and night.
Rosemary Lyon, of the daffodils, whose
representative institutions include rail-
ways, tramways and shipping, gave up
most of last week to visiting goodsheds
and depots to chat with engine-drivers,
guards and trammies who are supporting
the cause. Pat Carnegie, of the wattle,
whose props include the fire brigade,
will never lose her head in a fire. She
spent an afternoon at headquarters on
Eastern Hill climbing ladders and being
hoisted aloft on ropes by her brass-
helmeted henchmen. Valerie Purves, of
the roses, is doing the rounds of the kin-
dergartens, and spent a morning at the
Lilian Cannan Free Kindergarten in
South Melbourne, making the acquaint-
ance of the youngsters, the president, Mrs.
Cannan, sec. Mrs. Glanville Hicks and
other committee people. Edna Carr is
appealing to farmers for black wool.
If the black wool is marked Lord
Mayor’s Fund when sent to the wool-
brokers, proceeds will be forwarded
through the sec. of the general fund of
the queen of the daphne.
In the Sedon Galleries knight James
Barrett declared open an exhibition by
two young men, Albert Tucker and
Reuter Hallam Hall. Mr. Hall exhibited
a portrait in oils of his confrere, and
Mr. Tucker returned the compliment
with a sculptured bust. A portrait bust
of Percy Baxter was a present from Mr.
Hall to the citizen of Geelong whose
donations of scholarships have been such
an encouragement to this young artist.
What is Maoriland’s gain will be Mel-
bourne’s loss when Elsie Bennett crosses
the Tasman in February. Since 1911
Miss Bennett has been associated with
the Y.W.C.A., and for 13 years she has
been a staff member of the association.
During the last few years of her general
secretaryship the association has ex-
panded considerably ; more work is being
done in the suburbs, and there is
now a public-affairs committee. Miss
Bennett will undertake a similar job in
Auckland.
Mary Cecil Allen says it is 400 years
since anyone has invented a new animal.
There’s the bunyip, but he’s vague and
shadowy, a plasmic rather than a con-
crete beast; and there’s Mickey Mouse,
but he’s really an adaptation, like a golli-
wog. To invent a shape as impressive as
a unicorn, a gargoyle or a Chinese
dragon is much more difficult than it
sounds. For her lecture on Gothic
Form and Modern Spirit Miss Allen
arranged gargoyles as a decorative touch
upon the dais, and clad herself in a
Grecian gown of black satin, its most
original note being three brass curtain
rings as a throat attachment for a halter
neck. For all her talks Miss Allen pro-
vides herself with a high table to sit
upon. She invented this stance herself,
for, as well as being restful, it makes for
informality. There’s a friendly feeling
about her lectures in the smaller Cen-
tenary Hall. Everybody seems to know
everybody else, and there’s no objection
to smoking.
Original ideas of artistic and indus-
trious people have burst forth in full
bloom at the Arts and Crafts Exhibition
in the Lower Town Hall. The Alfred
Dunstan couple (Mrs. Dunstan works
under the name of Kit Turner) display
their skill with pewter and silver: a
muffin dish has a feeling of old age
mixed with modern art; you observe
pewter salt-cellars which won’t tarnish,
some silver spoons are ornamented with
Australian emblems and there is a parti-
cular charm about the pewter clock.
Kath Miller is displaying stone pottery
—Ali Baba jars, wide flat bowls for lilies
or goldfish, garden stools and a bird-
bath. The “wigwam” of linocut fabrics
in the middle of the room belongs to
the Michael O’Connell couple, whose
linens and cottons, printed by hand in
the most original patterns, provide cur-
tains of particular charm for the fas-
tidious home-maker. Some patterns are
gay medleys of primary colors ; others
are abo., brown and earthy, with shields
and spears as inspiration.
The nursery would capture the heart
of child or adult. Silhouettes of wooden
animals prance over the bookcase, and
more beasties are woven into the hooked
rugs. Patricia Dean’s suede gloves were
noticed next to the hand-bound books,
and patchwork quilts and quilted cover-
lets look like cheering up several bed-
rooms. Linocuts, etchings, posters and
photography make a display upon the
walls, and at the foot of the staircase is
a scrap of Arizona in real cacti.


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY.
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
EYE LOTIOI
For InFI amed Eyes and Eye Ii ds
SOLO EVERYWHERE
H. A. RO S E it, Co, Ltd. King St. Sydney
PEPSODENT OFFERS
BIG CASH PRIZES
£2BO MUST BE WON!
NO
WRITE NO MORE THAN 50 WORDS ON . . .
"WHY I LIKE PEPSODENT" AND YOU MAY WIN
£lOO . . £25 .. £lO
OR ONE OF 115 OTHER PRIZES FROM tl TO E 5
ISH entry fee
HERE ARE THE EASY CONDITIONS
Write 50 words or less on the subject,
“Why I like Pepsodcnt Tooth Paste,”
on any sheet of paper—and include
your name and address, printed on
it in block letters.
Mail your entry of 50 words or less,
together with the complete cardboard
box from a 2/- or 1/3 (6d. size not
eligible) tube of Pepsodcnt, to The
Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Dept. 2 » Melbourne, Vic.
Each person may send as many
different entries as he likes, but each
entry must be on a separate sheet of
paper with name and address, and
accompanied by complete Pepsodcnt
cardboard box, 2/- or 1/3 size. The
use of a 6d. size carton disqualifies the
entry. •
The judges will be Miss B. Macmillan,
Managing Editor, “Woman’s World”;
Capt. Donald Maclean, well-known
author; Mr. J. F. Barnes, Director,
Samson Clark, Price Berry Pty. Ltd.,
Advertising Agents. Their decision
shall in no case be open to question by
any competitor, and shall in all cases
be absolutely final. All entries arc
accepted on this con-
dition, Each entry
will be considered
on its merits.
HURRY!
All entries, on being posted by com-
petitors, shall become the property of
The Pepsodent Company, and the
copyright therein, and all rights to
use the same for radio and printed and
other advertising, together with the
names and addresses of the com-
petitors, shall absolutely belong to
and be the property of the Company.
Prize winners will be notified by mail
as soon as possible after contest closes.
Competition definitely closes jrd
November, and all entries must be
postmarked before midnight on that
day.
Anyone can enter this contest except
employees (and their families) of
The Pepsodent Co., and advertising
agents.
The competition is not open to
residents of Queensland.
Everybody has an equal chance in
this easy contest, because literary
ability and “fancy” writing are not
the only considerations. It is helpful
ideas that are required. Just your own
reasons in your own words. And the
the very answer you
jot down in a
moment may be the
big winner !
COMPETITION CLOSES 3rd NOVEMBER, 1935
ENTRIES MUST BE MAILED BEFORE MIDNIGHT ON THAT DATE
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: K. Jackson, 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Dogs, pigs, roosters, cows and the rest
of the farmyard fraternity vied with the
hurdy-gurdys, thirteen-for-a-bob mer-
chants and saveloy vendors in creating
babel at the Royal Show. Entries for
the ring events were multitudinous, but
riding kits were as various as the con-
glomeration of winter, spring and
summer garb on the grounds. Uni-
formity was more noticeable in the re-
freshment booth, where nearly a hun-
dred well-knowns flitted about in white
washing frocks serving luncheon and tea
to make some honest pence for the
C.W.A.
Hunt Club members felt at home
among the smokebush and kangaroo-
paws that decorated the Embassy ball-
room, venue of their dance. Lord Mayor
Poynton, president of the pink-coats, re-
ceived the vice-regals, with Mabel
Leather’s cellophane mother-of-pearl
crepes near by. Dance-committee chair
was occupied by Mrs. Theodore Felloe’s
silvery lace with its girdle of crystal ;
stalwart supporter Sheila Hayes wove
gold-and-green into her floral lame;
Lady Athlumney’s black silk georgettes
were heavily embroidered ; Betty Wood’s
embossed oyster crepes smacked of her
recent Continental tour; black-and-
white-plaid taffetas rustled on twins Joy
and Phyllis Malloch; Edna Smily’s
white organdies were dotted with red,
and Hope Robertson sported ostrich-
feathers on the yoke of her blush-pink
ninons.
For her marriage to Beecher Stowe at
St. Mary’s, West Perth, Kitty Boyd was
sheathed in white satin, shirred at yoke
and sleeve, girdled with a plait and
swept into a long train. Pat Roe, Betty
Seabrook and Jean Boyd scintillated in
her wake, their silver lames finished
with Peter Pan collars and large droop
bows. - Their delphiniums made an
attractive splash of color. Rejoicings
were at the Boyd home.
Mauve and pink sweet-peas and stocks
decked the Karrakatta Club ballroom for
the members’ Show Ball, and the card-
room was a-nod with Iceland poppies.
President Mrs, D. D. Paton’s hand-
painted white chiffons were in the box
seat; Mrs. F. Dempster combined web-
like black lace with georgette ; bands of
pink taffeta edged with pleated frills
adorned the skirt of Mrs. Alec Lawson’s
pink silk nets ; Margaret Paton’s gold-
striped white crepes were flowered and
harnessed with green; Mrs. Jack
Stewart slipped a wide gold belt round
her black velvets, and Mrs. Cardell-
Oliver had a floral design on her prim
rose chiffons.
Well over 100 guests trekked to King’s
Park Pavilion at the invitation of Mrs.
C. L. Stawell to quaff cocktails with her
son Dick and Betty Dean before them
marriage at St. George’s Cathedral and
departure by the Mongolia for a honey-
moon trip to Colombo. Mrs. Stawell’s
Breton hat topped navy-and-whife-pat-
terned silks, with Betty’s caped powder-
blue crepes alongside. For the bridal
garment blue was in favor again, this
time of georgette with a plisse frill at
the hem of the calf-length skirt and
ostrich-feathers trimming the picture hat.
Betty Wood and Pat Saw brought up
the rear with garlands of wistaria held
before their shoulder-caped pink suede
georgettes.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. and Mrs. Darcy Addison, of Tas-
mania, are in Adelaide on a visit, stay-
ing with Mrs. Addison’s son, Alec
Downer, at Bridgewater. The Kenneth
Bakewells gave a sherry party at their
home, Fitzroy, to welcome the Addisons.
Perfect summer weather blessed the
rose show in the Town Hall, and the
perfume of the flowers was overpower-
ing. Thousands of roses were used by
the Moulden lady and her assistants in
decorating the stage. The scheme was
terraced lawns, with a trellis concealing
the organ. Wings of trellis hid the organ
galleries. Two huge cement vases were
banked with dark-red roses. Lady
Dugan opened the show in a dusky-pink
ensemble with kilted frills trimming the
threequarter-length sleeves. Her wide-
brimmed straw hat was banded with
pink ribbon, and she carried a sheaf of
Madame Abel Chatenay roses tied with
pink satin streamers. The Moulden lady
wore a white marocain threequarter-
length coat over a white georgette frock
striped with black, and her large white
straw hat was trimmed with black velvet
ribbon. The decorated tables were a
strong feature —lace tablecloths, colored
crystal and sweets and candles to match.
One table boasted antique decanters in
old silver coasters.
The attendance at the Music Salon’s
latest evening at the Piccadilly was an
overflowing one. Members had been
asked for flowers, and the response was
so good that the huge reception-rooms
were massed with bloom. Mrs. John
Corbin, one of the vice-presidents, was
in modishly-cut black taffeta, backless,
and a scarlet-and-gold scarf. Mrs. Frank
Wilcox chose dusky-pink chiffon pat-
terned in black, fitting to the figure.
Mrs. F. W. Porter’s cream chiffon was
flowered in flame color. She was accom-
panied by her mother, Mrs. A. F. Cud-
more, and her niece, Miss Suzanne, of
Sydney. Mrs. Caldwell, another visitor
from the Harbor City, was gowned in
sapphire-blue chiffon velvet. Secretary
Mrs. E. A. Puddy was in black ring
velvet.
Mrs. Reginald Walker, of Kensington
Gardens, was hostess at a little tea-party
at the Piccadilly to welcome Mrs. Lloyd
Dumas, who has returned from England,
and say farewell to Madge Markwell,
who is leaving for Melbourne on a holi-
day. The guests of honor were presented
each with a corsage posy. Mrs. Walker
looked well in dusky-pink wool maro-
cain with deep cape effect, bordered
with a quilted edge and a cowl collar
of the same. Her hat was a wide-
brimmed black ballibuntal straw.
TASMANIA.
The vice-regals went to Launceston for
the Northern A. and P. Show, which was
an all-round success. Weather was fine,
and even the old chaps who poked walk-
ing-sticks at sheep and pigs agreed that
things were looking up. Mrs. A. Bennett,
Barbara Bennett and Miss E. Hartley
scored successes in the ring, J. Archer’s
grand old hunter After Dark won the
Kathleen Mercer Memorial Cup.
The Governor and Lady Clark were at
the Naval and Military Ball held in
Launceston’s Show Week at the Albert
Hall. Masses of pink camellias, ranunculi
and pink heath decorated the official
lounge. Supper-tables had silver-and-
crystal vases of Iceland poppies and
forget-me-nots. Lady Clark was in black
lacquered satin, and the Mayoress also
sported black.
The Royal Autocar Club invited
guests to dance in its clubhouse on a
dirty night, but great fires, a cheery wel-
come and spirited dancing put everyone
in fettle to enjoy supper. President
Weller Arnold received the guests.
Mary Katherine Hutchins and Angus
George Shoobridge, Bushy Park, were
married at St. George’s. The wedding
garment was heavy white satin, with long
train and long sleeves. The tulle veil
fell from an orange-blossom halo.
Nancy Shoobridge and Edna Mason
attended in blue velvet, topped by straw
picture hats. The bride’s uncle and
aunt, Col. and Mrs. J. E. C. Lord, enter-
tained afterwards at their home, Der-
wentwater.
The engagement is announced of Hetty,
elder of the two pretty Crisp sisters, of
Sandy Bay, and Ellis Blain, of Sydney.
His Ex., now practically recovered
from his long illness, has been been
recommended by his medico to take a
sea voyage, so he and Lady Clark are to
visit Ceylon’s balmy isle, returning about
the end of next month.


wr ** es the user of an “R-an-
D Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
* n S Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details iron any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers,
MADE- lAI .QU6EAJSLA/VO' BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD.
A
r.
iv
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
77Z7
The
BONSER
Stockwhip
Made of liaud-plaited Kangaroo
Hide, 8-strand. Bft. long. The handle
is 8-plait and steel-lined to give
strength. A fine stockwhip for hard
work. 01/
PRICE 41/ -
Boy’s Size, 6ft 18/C
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
OF QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Arthur Barrow, a Brisbane
City Council employee, is surely qualified
to take the proverbial “ticket in Tatt.’s.”
He was working at the Tingalpa quarry
a few days ago when 181 b. of gelignite,
151 b. of blasting powder and 70 detona-
tors went off with a bang which shook
houses two miles away. Barrow, who
was watering a horse a few feet
away, found himself in the air, but “came
to a sudden stop” when everything went
black. When they found him he was
60 feet from where he started, with no-
thing worse than slight concussion and
a bruised face. They took him tenderly
to hospital, but there are some Australians
who don’t like bed ; so, after he had felt
himself all over, he got up and went
home.
* * * *
“N.S.”: It would be hard to beat the
commercial record of the family of A. E.
Webb, who has been appointed Queens-
land manager of the A.M.P. His grand-
father was Queensland agent over 75 years
ago. A son succeeded him in 1875, and
became manager. And now his son —
Queensland-born and -bred —comes back
from Victoria to take over (he job in a
huge building which could house the
original office in a corner of its vestibule.
*+* ' *
“Goode Island”: Auctioneering has
taken on a new dignity in Thursday
Island. The law provides that auctions
shall be held only by licensed auctioneers.
And as there is not one of the ilk in T. 1.,
few people having much to auction, a
lady who wished to dispose of her house-
hold gods found herself in a dilemma.
After earnest consultation with the powers
that be, the Clerk of Petty Sessions
decided to take an hour off from his
usual occupations—Deputy-Resident and
Magistrate, Public Curator, issuer of
summonses, controller of the goat
menace, licensing board and executive
officer in general. And a very satisfactory
job he made of the sale, too.
* * * *
“X.T.”: There is at least one Austra-
lian journalist who is not a war-alarmist.
Witness the report from a Darwin cor-
respondent to an N.Q. paper on the visit
of the fleet;
Inter alia, some of the officers of the
Canberra announced that any suggestion
of war between Italy and Abyssinia is
premature; no such event is likely to occur
till after the Melbourne Cup is run, for
what would Melbourne be during Cup
week were the fleet not there to lend its
prestige to that momentous event?
* * * *
“El V.”: The death of W. F. Lalor,
partner in the Brisbane legal firm of
Thynne and Macartney, breaks a link
with early Queensland pastoral settle-
ment. His father, who was a poor Irish
boy, came from N.S.W. in 1840, and
pushed out into the Maranoa country
before the northern State was formed.
He was an early Legislative Councillor.
The family still hold his property at
Gubberamunda, Roma, but W.F., who
was educated at Ipswich Grammar
School, had a fancy for the law, and
A. J. Thynne and Edward Macartney
took him into partnership 30 years ago.
During the war, when the former was an
old man and the latter leading the
Opposition in Parliament, W.F.L. virtu-
ally controlled the firm. He was the ideal
family lawyer—a man always gentle and
considerate and level-headed, who made
it his business to avoid litigation rather
than to make it. And to see him sooth-
ing angry tempers was a lesson in tact
and insight.
* * # *
“Ross Creek”: Townsville (Q.) is
beginning to wonder if it has done any-
thing to Jupiter Pluvius. The old gentle-
man has been sadly neglecting his job,
and the Queen City has had only nine
inches of rain in nine months. Gardens
may now be watered once a week for an
hour with buckets, and the railways are
bringing in 80,000 gallons daily from
Rollingstone, while the city council is
busy sinking wells, and 60 windmills
make the landscape look like something
out of Holland. Normally, the mean
rainfall is about 49 inches for the year,
of which about 11 inches is registered in
January. But the drought will be a bless-
ing in disguise if it helps the fast-growing
city to secure a water and sewerage
system calculated to provide for its
growing population and increasing ship-
ping trade.
“You Watch 'im while I get a stick!”
“East Point’’: The Darwin Supreme
Court has heard a case which shows that
Chinese are either better mates or better
optimists than some Australians. The
plaintiff, one Lim Noy, claimed that when
a friend, Chin Long Tang, sailed for
China he asked him to look after Mrs.
Tang and four children, remarking that
he would be back in six weeks. It was
six years before he turned up, and dur-
ing that time Lim kept the family. He
asked the Court to give him £l4OO 11s.
to pay expenses. But after the rafters
had rung with Cantonese indignation for
two and a half days, the Judge found for
the defendant with costs.
* * * *
“Brigalow”: The G.P.O.’s decision (B.
9/10/’35) to establish a road mail ser-
vice between Brisbane and Toowoomba
so as to speed up mails causes surprise.
Why not stand by the railways, which
could be readily done by utilising the
“7.55 p.m. mixed” as a mail carrier?
Known to regular travellers as the “Mid-
night Horror” this train covers the 101
miles in five minutes under nine hours.
* * * £
“N’lmporte”; “Steele Rudd” came
back to Brisbane, and only one or
two of his old mates knew of it the day
before he died. But there was a big roll-
up at the funeral, where Rev. Scott
McDonald (a friend for 33 years) read
the service. Others there included
Forgan Smith (the Premier), Jack
Mathieu (the blind poet), Phil Prior
(representing The Bulletin), Ashton
Murphy (artist, the business mind behind
“Steele Rudd’s Magazine”), Fred Ben-
nett, James Devaney and Victor Kennedy
(secretary of the Queensland Authors
and Artists’ Association!.
* * * ♦
“F.Y.7 ’; Blackall had an even more
easy-going jug than the regular boob
referred to by “Vavau” (B. 2/10/’35) —
a log to which early drunks used to be
chained at the annual meetings of the
Western Downs Jockey Club. After the
first booze had worn off it was the
custom of the alleged confinees to wait
until the crowd was watching one of the
big steeples and then, hoisting the log
on their shoulders, to adjourn to the
nearest publican's booth for a pick-me-
up. As every pub in Blackall had a
booth on the course, the party never had
to walk far. After the race the log was
carried back to the little patch of scrub
behind the grandstand, and the inspecting
John Hop always found a cheerful and
contented clientele awaiting him.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
After a round of ceremonial engage-
ments in the north our Governor sailed
in the Scotia, the T. C. Fowlers' motor-
boat, to Horseshoe Bay, one of the love-
liest spots on Magnetic Island, to fish
and see the scenery.
Mrs. N. F. Langdon and Mrs. F. J.
Hanron gave a tea-party at Rowe’s for
Mrs. E. A. Callanan, whose husband is
chairman of directors of Vacuum Oil,
Melbourne. Place-cards bore Queensland
birds and bush flowers. Barrier Reef
coral made the centrepiece, and there
were vases of pink carnations, meadow-
sweet and delphiniums.
Molly, daughter of the J. D. Storys,
said her “I wills” in the family drawing-
room at Canoona, Clayfield. Bridegroom
was Norman, son of the late R. J. John-
ston and of Mrs. A. H. Hall, Melbourne.
Father gave the bride away, the bridal
garment being a two-piece suit of sand-
colored linen georgette, worn with a
shady straw hat. Marjorie Lightbody,
in mignonette green, ’maided. Toasts
were honored at the National.
There was a tremendous gathering at
Goondiwindi when two old Queensland
families were united through the mar-
riage of Donald, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. Edwin Fletcher, of Warwick, for-
merly of Goondiwindi, and Nina Rae,
second daughter of Mrs. Rae, of Kya-
wanna, Toobeah, and the late Alex. Rae.
Cyril Rae, of Windamall, Bungunyah,
brother of the bride, gave her away, and
Enid Rae, Jean Gilbert (Brisbane) and
Joy Fletcher were her attendants. Dusty
pink were their drapings, and they wore
pink halo hats and carried pink roses
and delphiniums. The bride was all
white, in lace cut on classic lines, with
a veil of cut tulle.
Sheila Annette Albert, in her shirred
gown with Peter Pan collar and cuffs
studded with pearls, her pearl coronet
and long veil falling to a train, met Len
Maxted at Holy Spirit Church, New
Farm. Mrs. Paddy Crowe, bride’s aunt,
was matron of honor, and Betty Munro
and Edna Maxted were bridesmaids. All
three wore cyclamen-blue frocks, with
lace hats to match, and carried orchids.
Rev, and Mrs. Norman Millar are
back after an overseas jaunt. They did
Palestine, and in Jerusalem stayed at a
hospice run by a Scot.
Seventy-four tables were occupied at
the City Hall when bridge was played in
Red Cross interests. Mrs. W. T. Robert-
son was president of the committee re-
sponsible, and W. T. Robertson, Red
Cross chairman, lent a hand. Mrs. Forgan
Smith was there.
Mrs. J. W. C. Wand opened the garden
party at the District Nurses’ Home. Mrs.
T. C. Abraham, president, received the
guests. The garden was abloom with
spring flowers, and big beach umbrellas
gave shade and color.
Two hundred former pupils attended
an evening party at Glennie Memorial
School to boost the O.Gs.’ scholarship
fund. Mrs. T. G. Lahey, official hostess,
collected a bouquet tied with school
colors.
The M. S. Herrings lent their lovely
grounds for a garden party in aid of the
funds of (he Australian Board of Mis-
sions, an entertainment arranged by the
Women’s Auxiliary and the Weavers’
Club of the A.B.M. Mrs. A. B. Stark,
president, and Mrs. M. S. Herring re-
ceived. A musical programme and a
dancing display by Peggy Chauncey and
her pupils entertained the guests.
During Warwick’s week of gaiety most
of the station people in the district enter-
tained house parties. Staying with the
J H. S. Barneses at Canning Downs were
Mr. and Mrs. H. Bruxner and M. Brux-
ner (Beaudesert), Major and Mrs. Bert
Bell (Aroo), Enid Bell (Coochin) and
Beryl Collins (Nindooimbah).
A birthday cake iced with the asso-
ciation’s badge and illuminated with
seven candles marked the seventh annual
dinner of the Rockhampton High School
Old Girls’ Association. Ninety-six girls
were present at the dinner, and president
Grace Hodge, of the teaching staff, occu-
pied the chair. Vice-presidents Doris
Whitman and Alma Dunning and secre-
tary Ivy Riger worked hard to make the
function a success.


SIMPLE
as A.B.C.
Just two half-turns
nU I All up-to-date people
WIUli J Mil • —and what Austra-
lian isn’t?—will want
this wonder pen—the latest and the greatest
made by ‘Swan’. See and try it for yourself
at any good Stationers or Jewellers.
PRICES : The New LEVERLESS Swan’from 2\/-.
Other 'Swans’ from 15/-. ‘Blackbird’ Pens from 10/-.
‘Jackdaw’ Pens from 6/6. All guaranteed.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings,
2S5a George Street, SYDNEY.
The LEVERLESS
£WAN
** PEN
MADE IN ENGLAND
mmMjiMM'iiiJiff
Make your
verandah ym/ with
0
V
■S'
''J 1 HERE’S nothing like colourful
verandah furniture to give your
home a bright appearance. “Dulux,”
superseding enamels, is the ideal finish
for this purpose. It’s such a hard,
such a durable finish, it stands the
roughest wear. Easy to apply. Dries
quickly. Retains its high lustre in-
definitely. What could be better!
(SUPERSEDES ENAMELS)
THE
MIRACLE FINISH
BAMU
*
A product of British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty., Ltd., makers of famous
“Duco” Lacquers.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Man’s Mischievous Mind!
Shelley Castle.
Man’s Own Mind
Is Often His Worst
Enemy
CELF-TRUST, declared
Emerson, is tlie first
secret of success. Some
people seem to rejoice
in such buoyancy that
they rise straight to the
top and stay there.
Thanks to their self-
reliance and vitality
rather than to any out-
standing ability, they
snap—with a grin—the
shackles that hold abler
men and women back.
Assuming authority when necessary and
revelling in responsibility, they are so con-
fident of success that they are seldom dis-
appointed.
“But the vast majority,” says Mr. Shelley
Castle, founder of the new commonsense
psychology movement, “are, literally, their
own very worst enemies. Out of sheer self-
mistrust they instinctively recoil from re-
sponsibility. Subdued by their own mis-
chievous misgivings, they refuse even to ,trv
one half the things they COULD unquestion-
ably accomplish and, in consequence, remain
rut-bound in some humdrum, soul-destroying
job which is as unworthy of them as it is
devoid of scope. Apathy eventually creeps in.
with the result that much good material runs
to seed.”
Hope, we are told, springs eternal, but no-
thing is worse than sitting back hoping for
one’s luck to change. Achievement is the
result of pluck rather than luck, pluck
backed up by purposefully planned, properly
directed effort. Assuredly, self-trust, self-
confidence, IS the first secret of success. More-
over, self-trust CAN be cultivated and self-
mistrust conquered, as is clearly explained in
Mr. Castle's latest work, “The Great
Discovery,” which is available for free circula-
tion among readers of “The Bulletin.” How
to enjoy and preserve your physical and
mental health, do yourself justice and utilise
all your resources are other vital issues which
are discussed with unusual clarity.
“The Great Discovery” is obtainable quite
free of charge or obligation. As supplies are
limited, however, it is advisable to secure
your copy immediately by writing to Mr.
Sbelle.v Castle (Suite 537 B.), 1 Jackson's
Lane, London, N.6.
A Feeling Sketch of the Mallee:—
SCRUB
By EDNA DAVIES.
FOR so long she had dreaded this
patch of scrub ; dreamed of it as
an ugly, sinister thing that would
haunt all the rest of her days, just as
that other patch had haunted all her
youth. And here it was smiling at her,
welcoming her to her new home as
a bride should be welcomed, with gay
flowers and nodding plumes.
As Tom helped her out of the car he
asked: “Happy, Lucy girl?” She smiled
back at him: “Completely happy.”
She did not tell him of the load that
had been lifted from her by that patch
of smiling scrub. He didn't know of the
dread that had been haunting her ever
since he told her he had bought the old
Bartlett place, and that they would go
there immediately they were married.
She had known there was scrub on the
Bartlett place. Tall, straight trees she
loved, but not those horrible, twisted
caricatures that always seemed to grow
in scrub.
It was because of the scrub that she
refused to go near the place before they
were married. She was afraid of the
sight of it, but she felt that, once married
and doomed to live there, she would
somehow find the courage to endure —
and then the scrub had smiled at her!
Smiled widely, happily, understand-
as though it had known her fear
and was saying to her:
“All scrubs aren’t alike, you know.
You needn’t be afraid of this one.”
And the bright green leaves of the
mallee and the duller ones of the tea-
trees all nodded at her, as though to say:
“That’s right; there’s nothing to fear.”
But it was some weeks before she
could persuade herself to walk in the
scrub. She would stand on the verandah
and look at it, and even wave it a greet-
ing on her way to the gate or to the
paddock for the cows, but it took courage
to enter those tangled paths.
The memory of that other scrub was
still too close for her to treaf this one
carelessly. Sometimes, as she stood on
the verandah, the smiling scrub of the
old Bartlett place would fade and she
would see again that other, older scrub,
with its sinister tea-trees, gnarled and
twisted.
As a child, her mother had always
warned her that unpleasant things lurked
there. Unpleasant things which, magni-
fied a hundredfold, had come to life on
the night of the storm.
Once more fear
gripped and held
her as she stood
there and relived
that hour.
She remembered
that the pony had
not wanted to go
into the scrub, and
time and time
again, after they
were in and the
thunder had started, she had not wanted
to answer to the rein. Lucy had often
wondered since whether Midget had seen
visions of her own, or the same frightful
images that she had—-the hairy, twisted
faces of grinning giants; the horrible
head that had no body, and the body
that had no head. The giant with huge,
hairy arms stretched out to grab her
every way she turned, and the one she
never saw, because he kept pad, pad,
padding just behind her.
She could hear his padding even
through" the thunder. Sometimes he got
so close that she could feel his hot
breath on her neck, and when the light-
ning came she was afraid to look behind
for fear she might see his great hairy
hands stretched out to grab her. She
screamed and screamed, but no one came.
She and Midget rode round and round,
with no sight of the cows they had been
sent to get, and she, at least, as lost as
if she had been a thousand miles from
home.
A T last, wet through and worn out
** with fear, she had given Midget her
head, and a few minutes afterwards she
was carrying her through the gate where
the cows had passed some time before.
Her busy parents had had no time to
soothe her frightened nerves, and even
a hot-water bag and tea in bed had
taken hours to quieten them enough for
sleep to take control. All scrub had
been haunted for her since, until that
on the old Bartlett place had smiled at
her, and when at last she found the
courage to walk there it made its wel-
come good.
There were logs to rest on just where
sun and shade met happily. Old man’s
beard and Christmas bush sprawled pro-
fusely over the bushes, scarlet runner
brightened the ground, little blue and
yellow flowers poked up their heads in
unexpected places, and magpies warbled
“Good-day” to her from the branches.
The kindly growth of spring hid the
ugly things, the gentle wind whispered
music in the leaves, and the sun light-
ened and brightened everything.
She gradually realised, as she visited
the scrub more often, what a place of
enchantment it would be for a child.
She determined that no child of hers
should find it a frightening place, so
young Tom was introduced to the scrub
early in life, and chased rabbits and
birds and played fairy tales there to his
heart’s content.
Lucy played with him, and, later,
when small Betty could only totter on
uncertain feet, she was introduced to the
delights of the scrub. She loved it.
She would chuckle with delight when
a magpie warbled, and tumble over
sticks and stones in her totterings
after sunbeams
Lucy watched them and thanked God
for the scrub on the old Bartlett place.
Young Tom was five and Betty three
when they got lost in the scrub. It was
dark when a frantic Lucy found them
„ . , u u Tu a „ i
™ " der , SOme n b V, sheS .- T he L,„ H
only been playing Babes in the Wood
they explained but Lucy had endured
sixty terror-filled minutes before she
found them, and in that time the scrub
had changed from a friendly to a
, e / 11 o® P' ace - b ° me ber ° .
childish fears came back as she searched
frantically and the twisted tea-trees,
which in happy, playful, daylight hours
had been grinning gnomes and dwarfs,
swelled in the terror-filled dusk to
leering giants, with a hoinble scciet
hidden among their gnarled trunks.
She realised then, looking at the scrub
through her fear, that it had grown and
thickened in those six years. There were
gnarled and twisted tea-trees in it that
in happier moods she had not noticed,
but now their grotesque shapes reminded
a- m j°f those other tea-trees, and
she shivered as she looked at them.
For a little while she did not encourage
the children to play there, but with the
coming of spring she found the scrub put
forth fresh charm. Her fears faded, and
once more it became a fairy playground
in which she watched her two imps make
believe, and sometimes joined with them.
Nearly every day they went there,
and sometimes, in the evenings before
he became busy with the harvest, Tom
would help with the cows, and they
would take their tea to the scrub and eat
it. Then there would be a wild half
hour afterwards, when all four would
enter the land of “Let’s Pretend.” They
were happy days, and once more Lucy
thanked God for this friendly scrub.
|T was midsummer when young Tom
*came running, crying that a snake in
the scrub had bitten Betty. Wild-eyed
and dumb, Lucy sped towards the place,
She found Betty playing happily, a
lizard sunning itself near by, and could
find no signs of any telltale punctures
on the child. They spent some anxious
hours watching her, and although next
day she was as well and happy as ever
Lucy could not hold her cup steady
enough to drink her tea.
All her old fears came back, strength-
ened. On her way to the milking she
looked at the scrub, and shudder after
shudder shook her. Only yesterday it
had looked friendly and inviting, its
gently-waving branches promising a
haven from the hot sun. To-day she
knew it for what it was ? a smiling nion-
ster. It held out inviting a^ and
promised all sorts of pleasant things ,
then, when you had accepted the invita-
tion and had grown to rely on its prom-
ises, it turned on >ou, and allowed a
its sinister powers to play with you an
torture you. Exactly, Lucy thought, like
the webs the s P lders s P m to the
flies, which look so beautiful with the
de w and the sun shining on them.
She felt that never a|am could she have
“uld sh = any peace of m.nd while
the scrub was there to lure the children
With itS sinister Charm - U WOUld have
h f , h t she couldn . t bear
t wen , there in to , and
j£ h / crub remained , how keep them
9
‘ S he consulted Tom. Told him the story
of that long-ago frightened child and
the fears of fe th b e grown woman> fright .
enec j j n turn for her children. Together
they went t 0 look at the scrub , one
summer evening when the last rays of
tbe setting sun were turning the mallee
tw j gs j G re d-gold, when the rabbits were
frisking at their evening meal and the
magpies warbling a ptean of praise to the
departing day.
TPHROUGH the long days Tom worked,
1 when the harvest was over, driving
rabbits and birds from their homes, de-
priving lizards and spiders of their
shelter, tearing trees and bushes up by
the roots, while the children made new
games to fit the broken trees,
He hated to see the scrub go. He
liked a bit of scrub on a place, but he
said no word of that, only told Lucy
how her pile of firewood was growing,
Lucy hated that pile of firewood, and
longed to set it off like a bonfire, so
that she would no longer have to see
those twisted limbs that seemed to shrink
humanly as the hot sun dried them,
When at last they were dry enough
to burn she piled them on recklessly,
and when the children played their usual
game of “fairy fires,” seeing all sorts of
beauties in the red coals and leap-
ing flames, she found it hard to see any-
thing but misshapen giants and grinning
devils.
They planted trees to hide the scar
where the scrub had been. Trees that
would grow straight and tall, with no
creepers clingiqg to their trunks where
sinister things could lurk, and Lucy
prayed passionately that they might
grow quickly, quickly, and banish the
memory of that tangled v/ilderness. For
the memory persisted, and on washing
days, when she poked the long, thin,
twisted limbs of the old tea-trees into
the blaze under the copper she imagined
they were snakes twisting and hissing at (
her, for she knew that so long as they
remained the memory of that old scrub
would remain, and even the sight of the
new “plantation” could not drive it away.


a
THAT’S THAT!
I? /JlnS
\ wB
cv
\\\m^
sir
Tt
L
as.
fi
'HZ
ZM
■*n
rrr
f
IP3
W:
S'
*===c*
y
>*»
< *
//J
is*'**
h H*JirW‘"'(
■>aa* !
/
V
/ »
■ ' \\^
<<
No more MONEY, TIME or TROUBLE
#//// to be spent on it for
20 or 30 YEARS
Chain-and-Knob
Fastener always
holds gate secure-
ly closed and can-
not be knocked
off, or lifted off
by cattle.
S,
Both hinges arc bolt-
ed right through the
post—cannot loosen
or pull out.
TWENTY or thirty years is nothing in the life of a “Cyclone”
Gate. Our records show that old-timers hung twenty and
thirty years ago are still in use, operating as efficiently as ever,
looking almost as good as when they were new. And today’s
“Cyclone” Gates are, naturally, much improved, better and stronger
in every way.
Electrical welding throughout makes one inseparable unit of the steel
tubing frame and cross members. There is not a single bolt hole
into which water can penetrate and set up rust. The solid hinges
bolt through the post, to completely prevent dropping or dragging,
and to assure smooth sweet operation as long as the gate lasts.
You can look for a lifetime of service from a “Cyclone” Gate. Let
us tell you more about them. Fill in and post the coupon below for
our catalogue which gives facts and figures about “Cyclone” Gates,
“ Cyclone” is not a type of Gate, but is our registered trademark
and can only be legally applied to Gates manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
THE GRACE BUILDING, 77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
clone Gates
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address ,
of “Cyclone” Metal Gates
B. 23 /10/.’35.
■
Brief Study of an Adolescent :-
THE BOW
By
DALLAN GAEL.
THEY were working in the orchard,
young Fred and the “old feller,” and
there was no warmth there, from the
deepest hollows in the low ground where
unthawed frost tinkled crisply underfoot
to the bare exposed hillocks open to the
steel-sharp gale from the tablelands. If
the wind blew in regular gusts it seldom
quite subsided, and in the broken lulls
of full blasts and low, chilled stirrings
the discomfort was bitter as a promise,
seldom wild enough to send them in to
warmer work, never mild enough to
promise them better weather; and the
thin, sick sun was a continual aggrava-
tion.
Yet there were some that found satis-
faction there that day, and their noisy
yodels rose and fell with the wind as they
came and went along the furrow with the
plough. Commotion broke out in number-
less groups among them without differ-
ence from the quarrelling of a hundred
other days, and on every side across the
new-turned ground they congregated
rowdily, flapping, snapping or stunting
between the defoliated trees, and their
tameness to horse and man was incred-
ible.
It was that tameness of the magpies
that maddened young Fred more than
anything. The slit of the wind through
his sweaty shirt was nothing to it. In
comparison, the brutal work of ploughing
across the face of the hill, still bound on
the surface with frost, trampled down by
the stock that had fed there since early
autumn, the jerk of the empty heel un-
guidablc, the set grip of his frozen
fingers on the plough, were irksome
rather than painful.
As he made the cuts up and down he
paid more attention by far to the birds
than to the sweat-breaking jolt of the
share, blunt and stubborn as the ground
it broke ; and the birds in their turn pro-
voked him by following on from every
stopping place. When he halted at the
end of the block they were never more
than a few yards behind, and when he
drove off again they were seldom more
than that much ahead. With a stone he
could have hit one every time ; with a
stick he could have knocked them down
in dozens; with a gun he could have
had more sport there in half an hour
than in an entire day out in the open
paddocks.
Unfortunately there were no stones
within half a mile, few sticks handy, and
the “old feller” watched his progress
continually. He seemed to the boy to
spend more time watching him than he
did pruning. He had moved between
three trees during the last two hours, and
every time the team came round he
stopped again to watch it pass, to bully
him, to curse the wind or sometimes for
no obvious reason at all. A hundred
other days when there were no birds he
would have known and suffered grudg-
ingly. But to-day, with a multitude of
sport waiting to be slaughtered by hand,
it was unfair, and at sixteen such things
smack of nigger-driving and tyranny.
IT was while he was turning the corner
at the end of the orchard that he saw
the bow. It lay near the fence, a crude
thing of wattle and a piece of twine,
where Eric had thrown it.
The boss’s kids had a playground there,
and another time he would have com-
plained bitterly of the danger of their
broken bottles and rusty tins. He might
possibly have clipped their ears on the
sly or have hidden their rubbish in out-
of-the-way places. But the sound of the
magpies was very close and the bow
curious.
He wondered idly if the wood was very
springy and if, with a few light arrows
broken from a goose weed, it would
carry far. He went so far as to pick it
up before he scoffed at his own idea and
set the team to work again rapidly, feel-
ing more than ridiculous and childish
even to himself.
Near the chest of the hill he came
level with the boss again. He was not
pruning this time either, and Fred looked
at him wearily as the horses stopped.
He expected something to be at fault,
but just what he was uncertain, for there
w'ere many things to be chosen, and a
grumpy man is not particular.
“What’s the use of this scratching
here, hey?”
“I can’t get it to
go in,” he said sul-
lenly.
“Hey?”
“The frost’s not
off yet. It wants
leaving dry a bit,”
“It wants plough-
ing deep a bit.”
“I can’t do any
better.”
“A pity about
you, me shaver, ’
he said, tipping the plough up rashly.
“It won’t go in unless you put it in.
What’s the use of having the damn
shackle up there? Don’t you know
how to adjust it yourself yet?”
The boy held a stubborn silence and
cleaned the mouldboard carefully with
his boot to cover up.
“Hey? Don’t you know how to fix
it?” the man demanded as he bent over
and withdrew the bolt from the bridle.
The stiffness of his fingers made the task
clumsy, and his liver twisted accord-
ingly.
“Don’t you know how to fix it?” he
repeated. “Hey?”
“I know how to do it all right.”
“Well, why the hell don’t you then?”
“The horses won’t pull it any deeper.”
“Be hanged! ”
The boy watched him in silence while
he replaced the shackle higher up. After
he had adjusted it to his liking he stood
back and picked up his seccateurs again.
“Go on, get to it now ; and see you
keep it in the ground.”
The boy clipped the reins, and the
horses eased into the collars leisurely.
A dozen steps up they halted abruptly.
He snarled at them and swung the reins
again.
“What’s wrong now?”
“It’s no good,” he said with malicious
satisfaction. “They can’t pull it. It’s too
deep.”
“Too deep, be damned. Liven, ’em up
there.”
He scowled and lashed the reins again
savagely.
“You’re a bird.”
The man strode up quickly and cracked
the nearest horse between the ribs and
bellowed a command. There was no
doubt about their mobility and no half
heart in the act.
“Can’t pull it, hey?”
But that was in the fairly friable ground
high up. In the heavier part low down
where the point broke the crust in big
jagged lumps that would neither turn on
the mouldboard nor clear the beam, it,
was different.
The uneven pull grated the horses
into an uneven temper, and places where
the plough came out they covered at a
trot until the share bit in again and
tossed the yellow subsoil itself out on
top.
(Continued on next page.)


will
'.ft t
or cunity
7
nocks/
When a representative of
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
calls upon you, he brings
you an opportunity which
is worth your attention. He
give you facts and will
explain exactly what N.Z.P.F. is
doing. When his facts have been
presented and he has answered your
searching questions, you will then realise
why thousands of people, from all walks of
life, have invested in N.Z. Perpetual Forests.
The World’s Largest Commercial Afforestation Company.
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBED FOR FORESTRY n A nr\n
investment, approx 3L4,UUU,UUU
RESERVES—FOR MAINTENANCE AND
REALISATION EXCEED
AREA PLANTED 108,000 ACRES;
OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
£1,000,000
Let us send a representative to explain this oppor-
tunity in detail. This, of course, does not place you
under any obligation.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD. watch
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA: *OURaw
KEMBLA BUILDING, 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY. UrKOW
No connection with any other Forestry Company.
m
w
w
Summer
Time
IS
TEA TIME
M iis Mm
■MKu .W9R
wm
• fill through Summer you'll
pay toll in fatigue and thirst
that is fostered by outdoor acti-
vities. Gladly, you'll turn to the
compensation so generously
offered by tea GOOD tea.
Freshly brewed from a fine
quality leaf... all the exhilara-
tion you need is yours prompt-
ly. Refreshment unequalled,
satisfaction and a new lease of
energy follow your enjoyment
of a really good cup of hot tea.
If your mood should call for a
long, cold drink that quenches
and freshens, why not substi-
tute ICED tea? You'll enjoy
every drop of it, and once
you've tried iced tea, it's a
bracer you'll prepare many and
many a time during Summer,
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET
EXPANSION BUREAU
TEA
pi
9
\ :
HSS&
/
Interesting ways of making Iced
Tea will be found in the
FREE RECIPE BOOK
Write to The Tea Market Expansion
Bureau, Eyle House, Macquarie
Place, Sydney, enclosing one penny;
Stamp to cover postage.
Of
«ee«f
TSIH
THE boy snarled at the loafing team
with a growing anger, and in more
than one burst of temper he let the
plough skid over the ground without
attempting to guide it; in the next round
drove it down to the beam until the sods,
high and low, stood up like terraces over
the ground, with an unturned bone left
here and there to prove he was right
about the depth. But the birds still fol-
lowed, and every time he turned at the
end he glanced unwillingly at the bow.
During the spell he could have tested
it a dozen times without loss of time, and,
no matter how flimsy the string might
have proved, he must easily have hit
some of them with it. Yet the more he
thought of using it the less he cared to
for fear of ridicule, and the less he cared
to the more he thought of taking just
one quick shot, and all the time there
seemed something altogether too foolish
in a boy of sixteen shooting magpies
with a bow and arrow.
He let them follow the plough unmo-
lested, and took not even a clod to test
his aim.
i
i He was opening up a fresh cut when
the share dug deeply into a bed of couch
grass and the horses jibbed again. While
| he was heaving on the plough to free it
j from the matted roots and shouting at
i team Marshall left his pruning and
came down.
“You’ve got it too deep,” he said
abruptly.
“I told you it damn’ well would be,”
he panted.
“Take it out a bit then.”
“You just told me to put it down.”
I told you it was no use scratching.
I here s a happy medium, you know,
young feller.”
“It’s better than scratching.”
“None of your lip,” Marshall growled.
“You can see |hey can’t pull it at that
depth, can’t you?”
“ ’Course I can.”
“Then why the blazes don’t you use
your brain a bit? Has a man got to be
following you along all day showing you
just what to do, and how to do it, and
where to do it, and why? A man might
as well do it himself. Take ’em out at
any rate now, and give ’em a pick of
dinner.”
After he had let the horses go and
piled the harness against the plough he
followed Marshall down the paddock,
wondering bitterly as he went just what
a cranky old swine whose liver twisted
with every cold snap ever did at Gal-
lipoli, and he swore in his heart that the
coot never saw a shot fired.
DOWN on the headland he looked at
the bow again and sullenly at the birds
that alighted as hardily as ever. With a
stone he could have hit one every time ;
with a stick he could have knocked them
down in dozens, and with that bow and
a little bit of twig he might at least have
stunned one to satisfy his aim. But the
“old feller” was watching all the time
and only waiting for an opportunity to
ridicule him.
Passing close to it he stopped suddenly
and, bending down, picked the silly toy
up. The magpies were close as hell, and
their silly gargles taunted him. On a brief
impulse he broke a green prune stick in
two, shoved one end clumsily against the
bow string, took a hasty shot and missed.
He blushed sheepishly as he glanced at
the man, and fingered the bow string
awkwardly. Then he took another shot
in bravado, for he didn’t care a hang how
old he was.
“You’re not much of a shot, young
feller,” said Marshall with a blunt laugh.
“I’d do better than that meself. Here,
give me a go.”
A Good Wrestling Yarn:—
THE ZARKO
ASSASSIN
By CON DREW
IT was durin’ one of them periodical
squeezes that every fight manager gets
into that I hitched up in Sydney with
Lou Sampson and his travellin’ boxin'
show.
You birds have heard me, speak of
Lou. He was a slap-up judge of a boxer
and could indulge in a little glove-play
himself when it came to a pinch. On
top of that he knew a bit about wrestlin’.
There was five boxers in the team, and
just before we pulled out from Sydney
on our way to the country we picked up
a foreign wrestler bloke who’d been
workin’ on the wharves. I think he must
have come from Siberia, because he
talked of outlandish places like Copen-
hagen and Hammerfest. He couldn’t
speak much English, but he could wrestle
some.
We tried him out before we took him
on, and he showed us a pretty fair gallop.
The first bloke we tried him out with
lasted exactly sixty seconds. If the bout
had gone on for another half-second he’d
have died of strangulation. The second
bloke was a Greek. He took longer
to subdue, but at the end of two minutes
he came out of the fray with a frac-
tured pelvis bone. Lou thought our
grappler would make a good addition to
the show, so we signed him up.
“We’ll bill this bird as the Zarko Assas-
sin,” said Lou. “It’s a well-known name
and it’ll go big with the crowd.”
“I ain’t ever heard of him,” says 1,
“but if he’s high up in the grapplin’
game ain’t it a bit risky for our gorilla
to use his moniker?”
“As how?”
“Supposin’ he turns up some night
when we’re showin’ in the country?”
“The real Zarko Assassin,” says Lou,
“won’t turn up.”
“There’s always a chance that he will,”
says I.
“But he won’t,” says Lou. “The real
Zarko Assassin won’t be knockin’ around
in the country,”
“But he might,” I come back.
“And then again he mightn’t,” says
Lou; “so what’s the good of worryin’?”
“Just as you like,” I says. “You’re
runnin’ the joint.” And I let it go at
that.
Well, we took the rattler to Maitland
and, startin’ off from there in Lou’s big
motor-waggon, worked the country
towns towards Armidale. Lou had
chosen our string of boxers well, and
there wasn’t a dud in the lot. They
looked well lined up on the board, too,
let me tell you. When no one showed an
inclination to come and get skittled by
our heavyweight, Slugger Murphy, with
the chance of earnin’ a fiver for stayin’
three rounds, the boys supplied the enter-
tainment among themselves.
I must admit the Assassin earned the
money we gave him. There was always
a local lad or so in the towns we visited
who thought they could wrestle a bit.
After they’d been in the ring with the
Assassin they knew they couldn’t. He
generally slapped the come-ons on their
backs inside half a minute, which wasn’t
bad goin’.
Still I had a kind of a feelin’ that we
might strike trouble. I’ve always found
that when a bloke goes masqueradin’
around in another chap’s name he’s
bound to bump trouble in the end. I
said as much to Lou, but he only
laughed. He was a great man to laugh,
was Lou.
HE had another laugh cornin’ one night
after we had hauled into Tamworth
and the boys were lined up on the board
outside our tent. Lou had introduced
the boxers to the crowd and was startin’
on the Assassin.
“This here,” says Lou, pointin’ to our
gorilla with a stick he always used when
puttin’ over the ballyhoo, “is the famous
Zarko Assassin, who defeated the ex-
world’s champion grappler Strangler
Lukin in one minute fifty-three and a
half seconds at Madison Square Gardens,
New York. Since cornin’ to Australia he
has beaten everythin’ in sight, and it
was only at great expense to the man-
agement that he was induced to accom-
pany our show. If there is any gent, in
the crowd,” Lou winds up, “who would
like to test his skill as a wrestler he can
earn a fiver by steppin’ into the tent


SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
I
I
&
5 m
isa
m
$
/*=
fM s
< o
WE’LL LOOK AFTER YOU ON THE
PiO
AGENTS
MACDONALD HAMILTON &C°
Joint' Pdssenaer Bookinq AqentsToumsr Class
GILCHRIST WATT4SANDERSON l!-°
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
i
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
. Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin, and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
years free of charge.
and stayin’ six minutes with the Zarko
Assassin.”
He was lookin’ round for a come-on
when all of a sudden a big, chesty,
square-headed gent, pushed his way to
the front of the crowd.
“Who vas speak of Zarko Assassin?”
he shouts.
“Hello,” says I to meself. “Here’s
trouble with bells on.”
Lou don’t turn a hair.
“What’s that?” he said, addressin’ the
big bloke.
Square Head stepped forward and
came right over to the line-up board. “I
am ask who vas der mans who call him-
self Zarko Assassin,” says he.
“Ah! ” says Lou. “Now I get you.
There he is standin’ right there.” He
pointed to our bloke with his stick.
Square Head looked at the Assassin
and unloaded a lot of foreign lingo
which no one understood. The Assas-
sin looks silly an’ stays mum. Then
Square Head bangs himself on the chest.
“That mans he vas liar,” he yelled. “/
Zarko Assassin.”
The crowd anticipated seeing some
fun and drew in closer.
“That’s right, gents.,” says Lou.
“Gather round a bit. 1 like a bit of com-
pany.”
Then he turns to Square Head. “Did
I understand you to say that you were
the Zarko Assassin?” says fie.
“Yah,” says Square Head, bangin’ his
wishbone again. “No udder Zarko Assas-
sin here.”
1 expected Lou to spar for time. Not
him. “That’s funny,” he says, pretendin’
to think for a bit. Then he turns to
the crowd. “Does any gent, here know
anythin’ about this man?” he asked. “I
think he’s had a touch of the sun.”
Several blokes yelled out, but Lou
held up his hand. “One at a time, gents.,”
says he. He points to a bloke in a cart-
wheel hat. “Let this gent, here give
longue. He seems to be fairly intelli-
gent.”
“Yes, we all know him,” said the bloke
in (he hat. “He was left behind by a
travel 1 in’ circus about a week ago. He
can wrestle all right. We seen him doin’
his stunts in the ring.”
“Thanks,” says Lou. “We’ll soon
prove the wrestlin’ part of it. Now
listen, Fritz,” he says, pointin’ his stick
at Square Head, “You claim to be
Zarko Assassin, don’t you?”
“Yah!” says Square Head, noddin’ his
head.
“Right!” says Lou. “There’s only one
way to prove it, and that’s in the ring.”
He pulled a fiver from his pocket and
held it out. “If you stay six minutes
with my boy here, I’ll make you a present
of this. What do you say?”
For sheer audacity it beat the band,
and I held me breath and waited.
Square Head looked puzzled for a bit,
then he threw up his hand. “Yah, I
wrestle,” he said.
WELL, I’ve seen some corn-beef rushes
in me time, but nothin’ like the dash
that crowd made for the tent. The boxers
gave us a hand to stack the people in.
and inside five minutes they were packed
as close as paper on a wall. We lent
Square Head a pair of wrestlin’ trunks,
and soon the baboons faced each other
in (he ring.
I took a proper squint at Square Head
and felt none too gay. “If that’s the
dinkum Zarko Assassin,” 1 said to
meself, “he’ll tear our bloke to bits.”
He had about a stone on our gorilla, and
looked the cut of a wrestler. He had
them deep, wide shoulders that every
good grappler has, and his underpins
were strong and neatly made. Lou was
referee, of course, and because we knew
there’d be a dozen blokes in the crowd
keepin’ check on the time we appointed
a chap as timekeeper.
When everything was ready Lou made
his customary speech to the crowd and
signalled the men to start.
Gripes! You’d have thought Square
Head would have played for safety seein'
that it was him who had to slay six
minutes. Not him! No sooner had Lou
said “Go” than he leapt in like a cat.
and before the Assassin knew where he
was he was standin’ on his ear.
You should have heard them hyenas
laugh. The crowd is always with a
come-on.
Our bloke spun on the canvas for a
tick and rolled clear. He was only just
in time, for Square Head slammed him-
self down at him like a ton of pig-iron.
There was a torrid two or three seconds
while they struggled on the mat, then
they scrambled to their feet again.
The pair fooled round for a bit. then
suddenly Square Head made a dive for
our boy’s legs. He missed, and in a wink
the Assassin grabbed him and snapped
on a forward headlock. It was a snifter
of a headlock, too, but Square Head tore
his melon clear. Two or three seconds
later the Assassin grabbed him again
and down they went in a jjeap on the
mat.
The fall had broken the Assassin’s
hold, and they reefed and tore at each
other on the mat for a full half-minute.
It was an even go all right, and the
crowd went wild with excitement.
“Keep at him, Fritz,” they yelledi,
givin’ him the name Lou had called
him. “Keep at him.”
It was bad advice, of course, because
Square Head should have been reservin’
his strength. Instead of that, when the
pair were on their feet again he made
the pace a cracker. Twice he threw the
Assassin with a flyin’ tackle, and once
he dumped him heavy with a back slam.
He kept our gorilla busy for the first
three minutes, let me tell you.
D UT the Assassin had been wrestlin’
** regular for a couple of months, and
was in the best condition of the two. And
after a bit the pace began to tell on
Square Head. His movements were get-
tin’ less brisk, and he wasn’t timing right.
When the affray had been ragin’ about
four minutes I seen Lou give the Assassin
the office to step on the gas, and he
stepped on it.
From that time on until the end he
never gave Square Head a second’s
peace. A couple of times in quick suc-
cession he back-slammed him heavily on
to the canvas, and he followed this up
with flyin’ tackles and headlocks. Square
Head looked pretty sick after breakin’
away from the last hcadlock, and I seen
the writin' on the wall.
The end came pretty sudden. The
pair were wrestlin’ in the middle of the
ring when Square Head thought he saw
an openin’ for a body hold. It wasn’t
much of an opening, but he took a
gambler’s chance and missed. Like a flash,
the Assassin grabbed him by the legs
and, exertin’ every ounce of his strength,
threw him clean over his head. Up in
the air went Square Head and came down
like a rocket-stick. He landed on top
of b's head and lay where he fell like a
dead man.
It look us five minutes to bring him
round. When he did come back from
Dreamland we helped him on with his
clothes and Lou slipped a quid into his
hand. “That’s for the good showin’ you
put up,” says Lou.
Square Head went out with the crowd,
and when the last man had left the tent
I says to Lou: “So he wasn’t the Zarko
Assassin after all?”
“He was not,” says Lou. “There’s no j
such man. Zarkoassassin is a town '
somewhere in Russia. Square Head was !
only tryin’ to tell us he come from there.” i
'
The Silver Blood of the
Mountain.
White heart, white frozen height of love,
while heat
From whose wild heat
Beneath the blue-veined passion of the
snow
White ardors and a singing fierceness
flow,
The big ewes creaking, near the time of
birth,
The hare bleached fields, the lark pro-
claim, proclaim
The mountain's blood is silver through
the earth.
The mountain s blood is silver through
the vale,
A nd vast and bitter prairies of old shame
And marshlands, where the poor cry out |
for dearth,
Shall shrivel into sweetness clear and
pale.
Even as these long fields are clear and
pale
Where lark and she-tongued water chime
to hail
The white breast of the honey-pallid land
Beneath whose blue-veined snow, un-
touched, unscanned.
Burns the white heart of beauty and
delight.
The mountain's blood is silver through
the plains ;
The mountain’s blood comes singing ;
from the height.
White frozen heart, white peak of love,
snow-white
The silver blood goes chiming through
my veins.
Maoriland.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “Th e Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers!
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address; MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Adelaide is too
busy to read
by day...
Let the Evening
“NEWS”
Carry Your
Sales Campaign
Vy’HEN South Australia’s
v got the time to read
. . . that’s when to tell them
about the good? you have
to sell. “The News” gets
in first with the news in
our prosperous state . . .
use it for results.
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House. Collins
street.
■SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwlcs
Building, Hamilton street.
I.ONDON —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, 8.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
“THE EXAMINER”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the Best
Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest Overseas, Interstate
and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
We’re IN THE MIDDLE
... and Like It!
6AM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
to deal with these things”—— Mrs. Trevor waved
her hand and raised her eyebrows to intimate that
the whole affair was in very bad taste.
Henry Westly said he had cancer nine months
ago,” Mrs. Blakely said by way of excuse, “and 1
suppose the cook thought it might take too long our
way.”
She saw by Jane’s face that Jane thought she had
said the wrong thing. “Of course, it is a splendid
organisation,” she hastened to add, “and I am sure
Tiburon is very grateful.”
They took the man to Sydney,” Mrs. Trevor
said, like a prophetess, “and it was just as I said. He
was too far gone to be worth moving. We hear he
died under the operation.”
So it would have been a waste of money, any-
way, ’ Jane Darch said—“money that we could keep
to help people that would really recover. It’s no use
patching up the aged. Not that,” she added, “they
don’t deserve care. But it’s the young we must look
after. I mean, even if he had recovered his life wasn’t
much use to him, was it? He only lived alone in a
little hut on Warning Hill, and he used to get drunk
and have the horrors. You could hear him screaming
for miles, they tell me. Well, what would be the use
of his recovering and carrying on like that for
another ten years? No use at all. Might as well
be dead.”
“He had a dog called Worry,” Mrs. Blakely said —
“a great big Alsatian that wouldn’t leave him. I
wonder what became of it?”
“Henry Westly’s got if,” Jane replied. “Someone
poisoned Henry’s last dog. This one is such a
nuisance that he is thinking of getting rid of the thing.
It howls all the time, and they have to keep it on a
chain.”
Mrs. Blakely thought of old Mad Peter and the
way Worry would wait outside the hotel, sitting mag-
nificently impassive until the old man lurched out,
when Worry would spring up and wave his tail gaily
as he trotted on ahead, barking encouragement. She
wondered if poor old Peter, a little bewildered by
some strange next world, would be missing Worry ;
and suddenly, although it was not their fault, she felt
a little spasm of anger against Mrs. Darch and Mrs.
Trevor for talking about “the aged.” Mrs. Trevor
must be nearly fifty, and she wouldn’t like it, if she
had spent forty years of her life working in a flour-
mill, to have nothing but an old-age pension and
cancer of the lip at the end of it.
“I am sorry about my books being overdue,”
Mrs. Blakely said. “I’ll try to remember to bring
them in to-night. Sawdust and Spangles was most
interesting, my dear—most interesting. I am very
glad I read it.”
She paused on the pavement outside, feeling that
her morning was spoilt. Poor Mad Peter, poor
Worry ; she should have done something herself. She
should have made James do something; and she
hadn’t done anything. And she was angry with Jane
Darch.
“Corrugated-iron,” she said silently—“so many
of them are like that. I wish I could be.”
The whole town, all the people in it, seemed so
rigid, so hard, so dull; not living, warm, laughing
people. “I mustn’t think like this,” said Mrs. Blakely.
But her mind kept saying corrugated-iron, corrugated-
iron, like a train going over a bridge.'
She opened the flyproof door into Mr. Burgess’s
butcher’s shop, where Mr. Burgess and his assistants
were busy with the Saturday-morning rush of house-
wives choosing the week-end joint and deciding to
have pork just after Mr. Burgess had wrapped up a
loin of lamb for them. It was no wonder that, when
a shabby-looking man in torn trousers pushed up to
Mr. Burgess and asked if Mr. Burgess would give him
some meat, Mr. Burgess refused rather angrily. After
all, Mr. Burgess had a shopful of people to serve,
and the man should have chosen his time better. But
Mrs. Blakely, full of remorse at having done nothing
for poor Peter and Worry, hurried out after the
man and timidly touched his sleeve. He was not a
nice-looking man, for he had red-rimmed eyes and
broken, yellow teeth.
“Excuse me,” she said breathlessly, “but I heard
you ask Mr. Burgess for some meat, and my husband
and I are vegetarians, vegetables being so much better,
though very dear in this town and hard to procure ;
and 1 was wondering, our dog not being a vegetarian,
and I was wondering, as I have just bought him two
pounds of liver, would you like it instead.”
The man gazed at her doubtfully.
“It is very good for you,” she assured him, “and
I thought if you were very hungry”
The man thrust his face close to hers and almost
whispered: “Look ’ere; we’re just about sick ’aving
scraps thrown to us. This town’s a hard town, an’
we’ll be ’ard too, see? An’ the perlice is only makin’
themselves more work, see, puttin’ chaps off the dole,
so they ’ave t’ bite people, see? We’ll get t’ the stage
when we’ll take more’n dogs’ meat, an’ we won’t ask
nobody neither, see?”
And he slouched off, leaving Mrs. Blakely hold-
ing the two pounds of liver in her hand. “Oh, dear,”
said Mrs. Blakely, “I did so want to do something.
And I had only twopence. 1 couldn’t have offered
him that.” She shook her head. “I suppose I just
don’t understand.”
11.
“Four pounds of sugar,” said Lizzie, “a bag of
flour, seven pound o’ potatoes”——
“I hear you’re having a wedding out your way,”
Mr. Harper put in. “Great doings, they tell me.”
Mr. Harper knew all the news, for, besides hav-
ing more relatives than anyone else in the town, he
had a larger bump of curiosity. All the Harpers—and
there were scores of them in Tiburon —were inquisi-
tive. Emmanuel Harper had been one of the first
to poke about among the stones of the creek in search
of gold ; but later had found that it paid better to
know everybody else’s business and sell groceries.
His son Jeffery weighed sugar and scandal, reputations
and prunes at the same time. No detective who ever
hanged a criminal on the evidence of a hair worked
out the clues with more excitement than old Jeffery
Harper.
“Well, Sam’s a lucky man,” he said, bringing the
bag of flour with a thump on the counter. “Bit old
for hel - , ain’t he?”
“That’s ’er lookout,” Lizzie responded imperson-
ally. “A pound an’ a ’arf o’ cheese.”
“Now, if it was you gettin’ married,” Jeffery
called from the other end of the counter, whence he
was fetching the potatoes, “I’d say he had a real
forchun. The amount of washin’ soap you do get
through is surprisin’. It’s a you don t wash
the clothes right off their backs. He Jaugne
wheezily at his little joke, as is the custom of the aged.
“They got t’ aye someone t look a ter t et_ff
Lizzie said, with a faint note of pride in tier voice,
“They’re that ’elpless. I’d leave em to-morrer it u
weren’t that I’d be worried Dad doesn t like us
leavin’ ’ome. Tisn’t that dad is gettm any younger
an’ the boys can’t look after the ouse. Mrs. Simmons
sa V s t’ me the other day, ‘ ’Ow about comm an dom
the washin’ at my place? I ’ear yre a great one t r
th . e washin’.’ But I says, ‘No, Mrs. Simmons, not
with what I got already ;I m afraid can t. Yve
got no idea of what a lot there is to do.
“Ah, I bet there is,” Mr. Harper sympathised. He
peered out his door. “Young Paul seems to be makiff
quite a hit with that there lady school-teacher. Bill
Travers seen them out walkin’ together last Sunday
afternoon.” He gave her a glance from his beady
little eyes. “Don’t s’pose there’s anything in it, Lizzie?
You an ’ me know how people will talk. Don’t want
an Y more weddings in the family, eh?”
The news appeared to surprise Lizzie, but did
not interest her very much. She shook her head
apathetically.
“Not but what,” Mr. Harper pursued, “Paul’s
a boy any girl’d be proud to have. There’s a lot of
these young lads that doesn’t do anything so good
for themselves as walk out with school-teachers. They
8 0 ,. r0Und '“.l-'"’ “? a
P ollce 18 putting a few ot them off the dole. Talking
about formin 8 an unemployed committee an’ all that
ff lh YT ,ha ' «S f N °‘
but bat think they ought to get f.
Mr. Harper did a large part of his trade in dole
coupons, and found it profitable in that he could
always add a halfpenny or a penny to the price of
everything the unemployed bought on a relief coupon
because tbe / e nowhere fi §e T d gO, , L ' ZZI !
was not interested. She gathered up her parcels and
wen J. out to the waiting sulky leaving Mr. Harper
m h,s " .overcrowded shop, with its odor of
soap, dusi and hot oilcloth,
Mr. Harper had always plenty to occupy his
mind in the interval between customers. He could
®* and happily at his door and watch everything that
happened in Atkinson-street which on Saturday was
always worth watching. He was. like a chameleon
! n the ay he fitted lnt ° hl ? back B rou r nd : He was
inconspicuous against the glaring confusion of his
own s h o p window, with its welter of breakfast foods,
JamS j ® ykiUer ’ candied | honey, chicken feed, cheap
novelettes, saucepans, biscuits and self-raising flour,
He notlced Andy Johnson talking to old Tate,
a ? d conc,uded correctly that they were fixing up the
d , spu t e about that harvester ; and from the look on
„ Q ii,„„j + u„ f jL
od . date he B a m ered mat he was getting the best
0 f jf. Mrs. Wilson was wearing the old silk coat that
Harper had not seen for soL time and he judged
£ g h°‘h B ad°
the bflth l,me o , he had seen y° u . n S Frank Wllls talkll lB
to Margaret Sims, who served ice-creams and fountain
They’ anothi?Xay caU^
i se^y iea V? na f ve an °m er .stray cat mere. lerriDie
the
owner of P the Garden of Desire, loved them. ’Cats
always basked on his bit of pavement in insolent
security under the large, dark, smiling patronage of
Aristides.
{To be continued next week.)


: v
r
w
t
/
yy
y
V/
%
7/
*
£
\
ft
7
2k>
I
i
y
/,
m
p
\
///
//
may
Dr. Morse's
I
Life is splendid fun when you
are fit. You feel happy and
want others to be happy also.
On the other hand, the person
with a sluggish liver and a
system poisoned through consti-
pation is generally sick and
tired of everything, thus show-
ing how the condition of the
liver, which plays an important
part in regulating the bowels,
influences one’s outlook on life.
As a medicine for stirring the liver and regulating
the bowels Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are held
in the highest regard by thousands who have used
them with the utmost satisfaction.
They Make You Fee/ Brighter
NO MORE WORK
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not
be wetted too frequently. House-
hold duties of all kinds, to say
nothing of factory work, are detri-
mental, and once the hands are
thoroughly roughened it is a diffi-
cult matter to restore the natural
softness and whiteness, and still
continue working. However, with
care and attention a great deal can
be done to prevent an unsightly
appearance. After any hard work
they should be well cleaned with
good soap and warm water, and
when thoroughly dried rub Mirpil
well into the skin, repeating the
operation two or three times on each
occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, Tired Feet, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Smeared on face and hands when
retiring it keeps mosquitoes away.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
W, H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6
per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
trying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, followed by a
dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, will be found most satisfactory.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co.-, Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-,)
X
e
S<^^JpS^o o
jp:**
«.V- Od^'o'
V*
? (V^
V*!
s eX
°' ,\o\'
- A u'' e »■,
» 4 v ~s - ° ..••■ ..••■ ***•*«>
..•••- ...-•• c .»6r^°
..** s o^
•■•■ V
s&*g °'


r
D
D
a O o
J
THE PERFECTED
°'V
ml
j*o.
M
Zm-
M
m
S 3
ATL
IA
Mi m i /
f /
li
-
/■|
'?w
MS i
r
l.v-i :
NS i
©
L
THE PERFECT RUNNING MATE TO ATLANTIC ETHYL
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD.,
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND.
A.M.O. 1-48.35.
THE PERFECT MOTOR SPIRIT
Perfected lubrication has been
achievedl Atlantic New-Process
Motor Oil is here! No longer are
yesterday's oils adequate. To-
day's increased power and
hotter engines demand finer
lubricants. That's why "solvent
process" oil has been evolved.
Oil with intensified resistance to
intensified friction oil un-
affected by severer degrees of
heat and cold. Atlantic New-
Process Motor Oil won't sludge,
won't carbonise, won't gum
under any conditions. It gives
smoother engine operation . . .
protects moving parts longer ...
gives you an actual cash saving
because replacements and re-
pairs are noticeably less. Drain
and refill with Atlantic New-
Process Motor Oil—the perfected
lubricant!
