

♦ 4 •
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £900,000
%
%
•J-HE Producers and General Finance Corporation, Limited, who
* have acquired the assets of Cranwells (Australasia), Limited,
assignees of the Primary Producers Bank (in liquidation), have opened
offices on the 7th Floor of “The Block,” 426-8 George Street, Sydney.
THE Corporation are fully equipped to deal with the requirements
of the Public in the following matters :
Cos/) Orders
Hire Purchase
Bills of Sale
General Finance
Including
Bills of L
Stock in Bond, etc.
THE Producers and General Finance Corporation, Limited, have
retained the executives and staff of Cranwells and will continue to
conduct the business formerly transacted by that organisation in
respect to the Primary Producers Bank (in liquidation).
Telephone:
MJ4371 (3 lines).
Telegraphic Address;
“Pribank.”
<
p
a
0
D
a
cs
*
Address all Communi-
cations to—
Box No. 3275 PP,
G.P.0., Sydney,
PRODUCERS & GENERAL FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
7th FLOOR— -“THE BLOCK’’
426-8 GEORGE STREET- —SYDNEY
DOUGLAS J. BUSH, F.1.C.5.,
Secretary.
The Bulletin
Canberra’s Trade Wars
57.—N0. 2939.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, ff.S.V, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a -Newspaper.
Wednesday, June 10, 1936.
Price 6d.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Dm I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SI Oil 's CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
tOO Russell Street, Melbourne.
— OUT HERB AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
(he third, year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in* part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a twin de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a scaled envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 Gcorge-strcet.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A QUEER
YARN
Suspect, by an
Australian, Allan
Strawbridge, is a
remarkably queer
yarn, and it is
said to be a true one. “In all essen-
tials this book is a record of the
writer’s life until the end of the war.
The incidents narrated arc true.” There
is also the descriptive subtitle: “The
war story of a young artist accused of
espionage.” The reader might find him-
self in need of these assurances: through
various causes—chiefly the author’s im-
personal detachment —the story reads
like a vividly imagined piece of first-
person fiction.
The writer increases this impression by
deliberately falsifying time “for dramatic
effect.” He telescopes widely separated
events for this purpose. Again, if a
novelist had sought a medium to convey
a theme of Life’s irony he could not
have invented a better one than the
character this author depicts as himself.
Even his name is good, for the part.
He is first projected into the reader’s
vision as a miserable schoolboy, humili-
ated on the football field. By the time his
youth’s done, and he has moved away
from the “vulgarity of the colonies,”
which even so young has shocked his
sensitive soul, he is about as completely
characterless as a man could be drawn.
For a time he is a vague sort of art
student in Paris, existing on a precari-
ously-received legacy: he gives a good
picture of this existence, himself still un-
contaminated, preserving his unsophisti-
cated nature, even though he has to keep
himself alive by being handy-man in a
rough-and-tumble estaminet. Here he
reaches low enough levels of personal
suffering, but nothing to what awaits him.
In 1914 he goes to Luxemburg, and the
whole queer drama of his life springs
from the fact that when war broke out
he had been there a couple of months,
getting entangled in love with a sup-
posed film star and profitably sketching
and painting the countryside. Unable to
escape, he is caught up in the general
mental confusion; as presented, even
where all are bewildered, an outstand-
ingly helpless figure. Too much so for
life to miss his possibilities as material
for a sardonic joke.
Here was this helpless creature, this
happily expatriated refugee in the gentle
Duchy of Luxemburg from a harsh, un-
couth, uncultured place at the ends of the
earth ; nothing less worldly than he could
be imagined ; no one so happy just to be
left alone, the more neutral the better;
not a silly national patriotic thought or
impulse in him! Grab him, then, this
weak, supersensitive little specimen of
mortal nonentity, and pit the whole, vast,
war-brutalised, suspecting Prussian mili-
tary machine —the prison-camp methods,
secret service spies, and the rest of it—
concentrate, focus all of it on proving
him to be a sinister, dangerous spy!
That is what happens to Strawbridge.
It is terrific ironic comedy.
In the end it is , the finish of war and
the revolution that save him, a near-
maniac. He had somehow retained his
sanity—it might be felt that his sanity
had strengthened—in spile of such pitch-
dark cell experience as this:
For six days and six nights I moved in
blackness, feeling my way with tips of toes
and fingers. One hundred and forty-four
hours on end of unrelieved tension and
nervous fears. No one can. tell the
extent of the terrorising torture with
which one is consumed in silent dark cells.
One might'think that the darkness would
sc a relief from light. But one of the tor-
menting things about it is that there is no
darkness. One discovers there is always
light. The blackness is velvety—close up
around one—against one's throat—fin the
mouth —stifling. One feels oneself in the
act of being choked by a tangible material.
It becomes impossible to call out or even
to speak with oneself because of this obses-
sion. The feeling of pressure extends all
over one’s body—one's hands are black,
too. They arc pushed out continually to
keep it back in order to breathe.
From which it might be sufficiently
gathered that the book is a fair job of
writing as well as a queer yarn. General
description of the prison-camp life is
extraordinarily expressive in that vein ;
detached and impersonal, he is able to
look on it all as an impartial observer
might, concentrating on such a figure as
the person of Allan Strawbridge only for
his effective value in the drama.
Murry’s
Shakspeare
After 387 pages
of solidly con-
structing the body
of criticism in his
Shaks p e a r c
Middleton Murry makes a gesture of
throwing up his hands and exclaiming;
Is it really necessary that some poor
pedagogue, like myself, must stand at the
blackboard to make a diagram of divinity?
The answer is that it is quite unneces-
sary, but a little late to mention it. Or
that would be the answer if Murry did
what his question suggests. All his
question means is that he has at last run
the well dry, that from here to the end
of the book —50 pages further on —he
will have nothing to say. Up to this point
he had had no doubt, had written unself-
consciously, knowing that he had
spoken only occasionally like a peda-
gogue: the nature of his approach to
Shakspeare, being romantic and intuitive,
is the antithesis of pedagoguery. Where
the pedagogues meet and dissect the lines
of Shakspeare as so many lengths of dead
fish he would be heretic.
Pretty well all modern criticism of the
dead-fish order has been bent on demon-
strating that all the comparatively
weaker work in the Shakspeare plays was
done by somebody else. This attempt
carries with it the tacit assumption that,
because Shakspeare was the supreme
poet, it follows that his style must from
the beginning have been supremely indi-
vidual. Murry gives his first chapter to
demonstrating the fallaciousness of this
assumption, and clouts it a. hit whenever
it occurs to him afterwards. He accepts
as “the best description of Shakspeare’s
character that has ever been given”
Keats’s classification of him as belonging
to the type of poetic character “which
has no self, and is ‘everything and no-
thing.’ ” The probability is that the
formative years in a poet of that char-
acter would have been “not much more
but much less marked by idiosyncrasy
than those of poets of a different kind.”
On these general lines Murry supports
the hypothesis that Shakspeare is in the
main himself the author of all the early
work in the Folio. Instead of trying to
give others credit for the work of Shak-
speare’s apprenticeship, he goes to the
other extreme. He wants his Shakspeare
to have written the lot.
From this Murry goes on to a brief
outline of Shakspeare’s life, following
mainly what “the exacting conscience of
Sir Edmund Chambers allows to be
probable in the matter of facts,” but add-
ing some ambitious theorising of his
own, for what such things are worth. The
life thus embedded as a ground for study
of the works is nearly all surmise,
but it makes a fair narrative of
lusty youth, the plunge into London and
subsequent career. It falls naturally into
trilogy form: Shakspcare’s youth and
early playwrighting up to 1592; then,
owing to the plague disastrously inter-
rupting his theatrical career, his turning
aside to dedication and patronage (be-
cause he had to live) and his temporary
triumph as a careerist poet, until the
patronage, for some reason, was broken ;
then, finally, the plague past and theatri-
cal performances once more permitted
in London, his plunge back into the
theatre as the place where he properly
belonged.
Murry suggests Shakspeare functioning
from now on in a natural relationship
with the London and England of his
day: —■
lie had grown up with and out of the
theatre. He, by a life-process which we
have tried to picture, was more completely
than any other contemporary poet identi-
fied with the theatre. The attitude of his
rivals —even the greatest, like Ben Jonson
—towards the theatre was one of conde-
scension and detachment. Either they
wrote plays simply because they needed
money, and to write a play and sell it to
a company of actors was the least uncer-
tain way of earning money by one's pen
in those days; or they addressed them-
selves, like Jonson and Chapman, over
the heads ol the audience, to “the one
hypothetical intelligent man.” Shak-
spearc's attitude was totally different.
I hcatrical necessity, the immediate relation
to an audience of average flesh and blood,
was instinctive in him; he look it for
granted. It was the foundation of his
poetry; it governed the development of his
verse, and supplied the pattern to be em-
broidered by the silent working of his
spirit. Even at the end, what caught
Ben Jonson's eye in Caliban was the “ser-
vant monster” which made the ground-
lings goggle. For him, it was Unworthy
ol poetry: for Shakspeare, it was the possi-
bility of poetry.
After his “second plunge into the
social humiliation from which he had
struggled,” .Shakspeare is depicted by
Murry as “a vital part of an organism
which sought continually to turn itself
towards the life-giving sunshine of popu-
lar favor. His business now was to (ill
the house.” The reason he look over
old plots was because he could not take
risks for the company. Probably, Murry
hazards, he had taken risks once or twice
and learned his lesson.
No matter what else, he must be dra-
matically effective. So he appropriated
tried and foolproof actions, and created
persons and poetry. From that method
arise nearly all the insoluble psychological
problems of the Shakspeare plays.
Murry’s strength is the purely critical
treatment of the “persons and poetry,”
and the best of Ibis, and therefore of the
whole book, is the “Antony and Cleo-
patra” chapter. In this he dips his pen
into something of the poetic enchant-
ment itself, and writes creatively.
“Year’s
Poetry”
Selected by
Gerald Gould,
Denys Roberts
and John Leh-
mann to repre-
sent “the most significant contem-
porary tendencies and developments,”
The Year’s Poetry, 1935 (Bod ley Head ;
6s. net), will most satisfy those
who, reading that manifesto, fear the
worst. Here we “greet what- preg-
nancy we find in mountains,” suggest
“white obscenity,” have “cohabitation
with the worms,” cast “evanescent cere-
ments,” regret “violated silence,” see
“Anna in a close dream” and declare our
“waked heart hears the hurraying of
stars, the windy, white light cheers. 5 ’
Thus, unconsciously, these “contempor-
ary tendencies and developments” hap-
pily endeavoring to perpetuate the sub-
lime Wordsworthian:
The far-fetched worm with pleasure would
disown
The bed we give him, though of softest down.
The more conscious tendency, as this
collection represents it, is to fit the mod.
f. all con. at present housing the Muses
with the sharpest of steel furniture, irre-
spective of cost. The vol., ranged in
order of poets' ages, opens with Yeats,
Even he, in this selection, is turned grim
and flinty, but he has a voice that re-
mains his, and he has something to say,
even if it is no longer awake with poetry,
Some of the other older ones strive
pathetically to sound as if they’re in the
swim, or else, like W. H. Davies, they
retain their poetical manner and no
more. The bulk of the work in the col-
lection is merely the noise of poetasters
aping a hardness of expression which is
as much a convention as the softness of
Chide in the shade ever was. It’s inter-
esting work to look into, compensating
with occasional fine things, among the
best of them W. H. Auden’s
IN THE SQUARE.
O for doors to be open and an invite with
gilded edges
To dine with Lord Lobcock and Count Asthma
on the platinum benches,
With the somersaults and fireworks, the roast
and the smacking kisses —
Cried the six* cripples to the silent statue,
The six beggared cripples.
And Garbo’s and Cleopatra's wits to go
ast raying,
In a feather ocean with me to go fishing ami
playing
Still jolly when the cock has burst himself with
crowing—•
Cried the six cripples to the silent statue.
The six beggared cripples.
And to stand on green turf among the craning
yelling faces,
Dependent on the chestnut, (he sable, and
Arabian horses,
And me with a magic crystal to foresee their
places—
Cried the six cripples to the silent statue,
The six beggared cripples.
This square to be a deck, and these pigeons
sails to rig
And to follow the delicious breeze like a
tantony pig
To the shaded fcverlcss islands where the
melons are big—
Cried the six cripples to the silent statue.
The six beggared cripples.
And these shops to be turned to tulips in a
garden bed,
And me with my stick to thrash each merchant
dead
As lie pokes from a flower his bald and wicked
head —
Cried the six cripples to the silent statue,
The six beggared cripples.
A hole in the bottom of heaven, and Peter
and Paul
And each smug surprised saint like parachutes
to fail,
And every one-legged beggar to have no legs
at all—
Cried the six cripples to the silent statue,
The six beggared cripples.
Sundry
Anthologies
In the flood of
anthologies now
appearing we can
see the develop-
ment of two dis-
tinct forms. The first, which may well
be represented by Palgrave’s Golden
Treasury, takes itself seriously as a guide
to the best poetry, with, perhaps, speci-
fied limitations of length or subject or
time. The editor more or less tries to
subdue his personality, and seeks to be
useful, and very often he is, though in
some cases conventional and pontifical.
The type of the second may be found
in The Poet’s Tongue, discussed by
“Tylt Owlglass” (B. 29/4/’36). This
variety is more individual and sugges-
tive ; it ignores conventional verdicts, and
aims at an expression of the editor’s
personality. It may range from the
vivid and stimulating to the merely
ffeakish.
It is, of course, good to have both
kinds, or to have Palgrave supplemented
by a book of honest, downright criti-
cism like Lamborn’s Poetic Values. The
best of the educative anthologies is.
naturally, the long one, e.g., that pub-
lished by Jack or the five volumes ol
English Verse (Oxford). These, free
from limitations of space, are able to
give long poems, such as “The Eve of St.
Agnes” or “The Rape of the Lock,” with-
out any cursed abridgment. What we
{Continued on page 4 .)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
‘‘The Senior Store”
"While I Live I’ll Grow”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
HALF-YEARLY
GENUINE
MORROW
MEN'S WEAR AT PRICES THAT EMPHASISE VALUE
* V,
, %
-
I mm
m
»%■'. £'
ere
.«■
.
jim.
■*-¥r
■
sp?
li
a
■ : : I)
*
O
rf|?
g
r
.
ip*
,
, VK£i
0
yy^
■
B/
r^v
SS’--
15/6 PURE FOR FELT HATS
A bargain price to pay for such high- itfj
grade hats. Pure Fur Felt, best JL tdmim 'lyr
quality trimmings and silk linings.
Narrow and medium width snap brim styles that will
retain their shape indefinitely. Light, Mid, Dark
Greys, Fawns, Browns, Marine Blue, Black.
Price 15/6. Sale Price 12/6
7/6 MEN’S FLTTE. PYJAMAS
Warm, comfortable Flannelette Pyjamas.
Made in our own workrooms in neat full- * mj*
fitting styles. Small, medium and outsizes.
Prices, suit 7/6, 8/6, 9/6
Sale Prices, suit 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
16/6 WARM WEIGHT CARDIGAN
Snug fitting, cosy Cardigans of ext*a mM IA
warm weight Wool in ribbed knit. J_ /ft
This is the quality that will wear, too. I
Small, medium and outsizes. Dark Grey, Heather,
Fawn-Marie, Brown-Marie. Price 16/6
Sale Price, each ‘ 12/6
7/6 BRITISH POPLIN SHIRT
British Poplin Shirts, made for lasting
wear. Made in our own workrooms,
they measure up to our usual standard
of quality and correctness of fit. Two matching
collars, double cuffs. Blue, Grey, Fawn stripes.
Sizes 14- to 18-inch neck. Prices 7/6, 8/6
Sale Prices . 5/11, 6/11
10/6 ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
The Sale enables thrifty men to save con-
siderably on a winter’s supply of cosy
underwear. I. and R. Morley’s reliable
brand, and every garment is of winter-weight wool.
Shirts or Pants. Sizes 34- to 44-inch chest or waist.
Price, garment .... 10/6. Sale Price 7/6
7/6 WOOLgCOTTON UNDERWEAR
Stout, warm and durable is this Underwear
made from Natural Wool and Cotton of
extra warm weight. Shirts or pants made
in comfortable style. Sizes 34- to 44-inch chest or
waist. Price, garment, 7/6. Sale Price, garment, 5/9.
76
511
27'6 “TREE” BRAND SUPER BROGUES AND BESPOKE MODELS
Men who demand comfort, smart appearance and durability in Footwear always choose Tree
Brand Super Shoes. This Footwear is made from selected Tan Willow, Havana Brown and
Black Box Calf expressly for Anthony Horderns’. Illustrated are the super Brogues with extra
stout welted soles. Whole golosh models in extended shapes or medium round toe styles are
alto available with extra stout or medium weight welted soles. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair 27/6 Sale Price, pair
24/6
24/6
MEN’S TROUSERS REDUCED FOR THE SALE
Men who shop during Anthony Horderns Half-Yearly Genuine Sale can make worth-
while money-savings omstrong reliable trousers. We have marked down the prices of our
entire stock. Our well-known standard qualities, made in our own workrooms in all sizes.
Fine All Wool Serges, Mid-grey Winter-weight All AVool Buckskin Tweeds,
Heavyweight Wool Fireman’s Serges, etc.
27 6 MEN’S OILCOATS- Guaranteed 12 Months
26/-
Strong Oilcoats that will give adequate protection no matter how stormy
the weather . . . and they’ll wear for years, too. Cape-shoulder style with
storm front. Fully-lined, leather-bound. With each goes a guarantee for 12 months.
Lengths, 48 to 58 inches.
Price, 27/6. Sale Price 267-
Riding Style, 35/-. Sale Price 32/6
• Men’s Mercery, Clothing and Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
Limited, Sydney.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


\
moie. ymr&rilvuf yn£&o
tttcrtt&y
Super Plume 2tU
A the S power petrol /
CMAROm Mobiloil
PRACTICALLY 100°/ PURE LUBRICANT
may call the “personal anthology” may
achieve its effect in less space.
• nt h° lo § ies reveal amazing variations
m taste Lamborn rightly reproves Pal-
grave lor including some of Moore’s
sentimental songs, while omitting Blake
entire y. Yet Palgrave had the assistance
. en + n u yson - , die Oxford English Verse
is m the main an excellent collection,
ut 1 cannot forgive the editor for the
scajot justice he does Dryden. •
There are some useful anthologies in
the Everyman series, and some very
good ones in the Canterbury Poets,
notably The Greek Anthology itself.
Anyone unacquainted with this delight-
lul ancestress of the race of anthologies
should endeavor to get this edition. In
the same series are White’s Ballades and
Rondeaus, Sonnets of This Century,
edited by William Sharp, and Jethro
Bithell’s Contemporary French Poetry
and Contemporary German Poetry. All
these have excellent critical introduc-
tions.
Good selections of modern poetry
may be found in the Everyman an-
thology, Methuen’s Poems of To-day
(two series) and The Modern Muse.
Avery pleasant general collection is
the recently-issued Outline of English
Verse, by Professor Cowling, of Mel-
bourne. This is more inclusive than its
title suggests. An interesting feature is
that it gives the first edition of Pope's
“Rape of the Lock,” without the fairy
mythology added later.
The two chief anthologies of our own
poetry, those by Bertram Stevens and
by Searle, illustrate changes in taste. The
latter gives one poem by Lawson and
omits Paterson altogether.
R. G. HENDERSON.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
OUTSTANDING NEW WORK
Suspect Allan Straw bridge
Hurricane Charles Nordhoff and Janies Norman Hall
Shakspeare John Middleton Murry
Abinger Harvest .... E. M. Forster
piRST two of the above are fantasti-
-1 cally strange stories, grounded on
truth, but with fictional methods so em-
ployed in presenting them that for
manner, construction and effect they
could be labelled novels. Suspect (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.) is reviewed separately.
Strawbridge, according to Moore’s Aus-
tralian Art, is a South Australian ; Vic-
torians, then, have a case against him
for speaking of a city other than Mel-
bourne as “the Queen City of the South.”
Hurricane (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.)
is even mere fictional in nature and treat-
ment. In it is depicted with extraordi-
nary vividness the destroying visitation
of a hurricane to one of the islands of
the Low (or Dangerous) Archipelago,
that scattering of small coconut-crested
patches to the east of Tahiti, with Pit-
cairn down to the south-east of them and
the Marquesas to the north. The joint
authors know their South Seas: it was a
book of theirs which, a couple of years
ago, freshened interest in the Bligh story:
the recent Bligh picture was made out of
that and another of their books. Their
hurricane story is represented as told
by a doctor who was one of the battered
handful that survived after the hurricane
had stripped the island, smashed the trees
and houses off it, sunk it under surf —
done everything to it in the power of a
100-mile revolving wind, save pluck it
given as an eyewitness description, the
havoc witnessed from the bucking, heav-
ing, flooded, moored boat in which the
doctor and a few others ride out the
storm, with a childbirth in the midst of it
to emphasise the precariousness and the
persistence of life. The yarn is spun
round a young, romantically-proportioned
islander, a figure that might have stepped
out of South Seas legend.
Middleton Murry’s Shakspeare (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson ; 18s. 6d.) is sepa-
rately reviewed.
E. M. Forster’s, ragtag of a book,
Abinger Harvest (Edward Arnold;
18s. 6d.), is one of those indefinite collec-
tions in which you’re led congenially and
vaguely about without being taken any-
where in particular. It contains specula-
tive, travel and critical essays, topical
verses with a bite in them, addresses and
other utterances of the author over the
last few years. The crowded brief chap-
ter on T. E. Lawrence is characteristic.
“The little fellow who is labelled for pos-
terity Lawrence of Arabia,” it begins,
“detested the title.” He
did not think very well of the Seven
Pillars of Wisdom. “Not good enough,
but as good, apparently, as I can do - ’ was
inscribed in my own copy of it. He
compared the thing to a builder’s yard,
he called the style gummy, and he advised
beer to be spilt freely upon the binding.
Forster clears up some matters of doubt
regarding the recent public edition of
Seven Pillars. He describes it as “a noble
and scrupulous reprint” of the “sub-
scribers ’ edition, giving this explanation
of the different editions: —
The text of the work is already a joy
lor experts. Things begin well with the
losing of the original MS. in a bag on
the platform of Reading station. A later
MS. forms the basis of the so-called
"Oxford” edition of 1922. I have read
through this edition twice. One always
tends to overpraise a long book because
one has got through it; still, the “Oxford”
is, in the judgment of several critics, even
superior to the version offered now, and it
is good news that a reprint of it may
eventually be made. Only about half a
dozen copies exist. It contains nearly
330,000 words, and was printed by the
Oxford “Times” in double column on one
side of the paper. Fearful of prolixity,
the author set to work to cut it down by
50,000 words.
Thus drastically cut down, it was made
into the “subscribers” edition of 1926, a
reprint of which, with three minute and
carefully indicated omissions, is the bulky
book which has coined a fortune in the
little time since Lawrence died. “Here,”
Forster says, “the matter rests, unless the
lost handbag is discovered and its con-
tents revealed, when there may be the
dickens to pay.” He refrains from indi-
cating why. Forster is interesting on
Proust, Conrad and Jane Austen: his
T. S. Eliot article is shadow-sparring with
heavy gloves. The general comments on
topics at large are pungent often enough
to make the going continually lively and
full of fight.
It Pays to Be Good: Noel Streath-
field (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Bright, brittle
study of a hard little Cockney gold-digger,
whose career upholds the text: “Blessed
are the hard of heart, for they shall sit
pretty.” The author says of this creation
of hers that “she is presented only to dis-
like and to entertain.” That sort of
heroine. Pretty good cleverish pastime
fiction.
The Other Day: Dorothy Whipple
(Michael Joseph ; 8s. 6d.). Once I was a
little girl, and this is the sort of nice little
girl I was, and these are the sort of
grown-ups who rose like giants above
me, Father, Mother, Aunt and the rest
of that charming sort of an
autobiography of a childhood by an
author who has done some fine children
in her novels. It’s so delightful to read
that it seems a personal ingratitude to
even mention that there’s not much more
than nothing in it.
Crime and Punishment (Dent; 2s. 6d,).
Dostoevsky’s great tragedy having been
filmed, this is a large general printing of
the Everyman Library translation, which
in that less-cleafly printed form went
through 10 editions even without the
stimulus of screening.
The Spirit of the Hills: F. S Smythe
(Hodder and Stoughton; 205.). The
author writes like one suffering from a
severe attack of avalanche on the chest.
And ten to one there was never a happier
person with whom to go climbing. If
only he’d somehow get down what he
has to say, and he hanged to thoughts
on; life and morality! Some of the pic-
tures his camera has taken suggest the
way to do it. Occasionally he gets down
a direct impression, a genuine sensation,
and it is good ; but mostly he bears out
his own criticism: “There is no doubt
that we mountaineers take ourselves too
seriously.”
When Men Wore Muffs: H. P. Price
(Dent; ss. net). Apparently Flenry VIII.
actually wore those clothes and they were
not merely invented for the film by
Charles Laughton. Similarly with all
sorts of other extraordinary raiment :
there was a time when the most mar-
vellous of it was actually worn with
pleasure ; in fact, laws were always being
devised to prohibit unqualified persons
from desecrating the more fancy clobber
with their disgusting bodies. Anyone
who disbelieves this, and thinks men’s
fashions, of the past are nasty libels con-
cocted by frustrated spinsters, will for
ever hang his head in shame after read-
ing Mr. Price, who exposes the whole
affliction from early to present times.
Kookaburras will now laugh at us more
impertinently than ever.
Bligh of the Bounty : (Dent; Is. 6d.
net). “There are few educated men who
have not come across more than one
reference to the mutiny of the Bounty, and
fewer still who have read its history
as written by Lieutenant Bligh, who com-
manded the ship.” So in pocket-size vol.,
edited by E. A. Hughes, M.A., that
original story is made inexpensively avail-
able. “Those who have seen the film or
read the latter-day reconstructions of the
story,” it is suggested, might profit by
reading it in this original. Of course, the
picture-makers and some “reconstruc-
tors” have been out solely to make good
entertainment and have succeeded.
Righteous people have shrieked over
their “taking liberties with history,” but
surely all who are content to gather
learning from such sources deserve 10
have their legs stretched. Anyway,
Dents handily offer a corrective.
Flowers of Speech : Sir John Squire
(Allen and Unwin ; 4s. 6d. net). Suggests
a law to be promulgated by forthcom-
ing literary dictator: all books like this
one on “words and forms in literature”
to be, like this one, first talked over the
air. Unquestionably the mike has a clari-
fying effect on literary people. It may
make them tend a bit towards patronage,
but anything can be borne if they’re only
clear. It suggests a plain large public to
them ; they talk simply and to the point
in consequence. Also they do it enter-
tainingly, so much so that “lectures” is
a fierce word with which to label the
half-dozen divertingly instructive talks on
words, poetry and the writer's craft
which form the first half of this book,
and the further half-dozen that follow,
dealing with the main literary forms.
They are the talk of “a professional
writer whose practical business it is to
use words as effectively as he can,” and
literary instruction could not be more
gently administered.
Various Verse
The Valley.
Ages of moonlight have flooded down the
valley,
Whitening and shadowing the gaunt, stark
mallee ...
Ages of moonlight .. . And how can I speak
Of its hueless glare on the sands of the creek,
Its shimmer and glint on the ridge-top
boulders,
Naked and strong as tribesmen’s shoulders !
How can 1 speak of aeons unnumbered.
When the tribesmen would wake although they
slumbered?
How tell of nardoo and spears that lay
On that rock in the moon till the break of
day?
Mine are but ventures, vague, unfree;
Dimmest glimpses of mystery . . .
I watch the hard-glittering leaves of the malice
And the pallid rocks in the haggard valley,
And wonder and guess as to what the moon
hides
By the murmurless wash of its age-old tides.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.
Creation.
Out of a great god’s idle dreams,
In sempiternal night,
The earth was born, and 1 was born,
And growing things and living light.
On a far hill, at mellow noon,
I hearken silence, and I know
That out of silence, once, I came —-
Back to the silence, soon, I go.
I watch the night enfold the hill,
The sad, slow deaths of endless gleams.
Just so the god will sometime draw
That which is Me back to his dreams.
MAORILAND.
E. MARY GURNEY.
Sonnet.
Someday when I am old I think I’ll stand
Where no winds blow, and with serene con-
tent —
My songs all sung, my angry arrows spent —
I’ll run life’s shattered rainbow through my
hand,
Age-ringed and wise with work. And then I’ll
know
Surely, with quiet heart, the essential thing
That now I lose in dim imagining
Or brush aside with vain exotic show
Of argument. At last, with a clear truth
To guide my eyes, I’ll wait awhile alone,
Pleasantly conscious that my life is done;
And then, no more to any loves beholden,
I think I’ll thank the gods for this green
golden
Shouting disharmony, my fleet, sweet youth.
Tasmania.
H. M. BETHUNE.
Noses.
Holy Moses,
Why those noses?
Laughable lumps upon (lie Face,
Redundant to the human race,
It seems to me their only grace
Is keeping spectacles in place.
The mouth is used for respiration,
Despite eugenic education;
And breathing through the mouth avoids
Catarrhal colds and adenoids;
Besides reducing to a minus
The risk of getting frontal sinus.
(But constant breathing through our noses
May lead to rickets and thrombosis.)
We seldom use our nasal organ
Except to get a whiff of Gorgon-
Zola cheeses or mawkish roses.
(And chance a bee-sting on our noses.)
Noses red and noses blue,
Purple-veined, and what have you?
Seldom one that’s uniform;
Angular and cuneiform,
Loops, parabolas and arcs;
Skinny noses on the narks,
Eagle beaks on money sharks,
Haughty ones on hierarchs,
And —we see-’em in the parks—
Snobbish noses in a brougham,
Too refained to ever blow ’em.
How Td love to domino 'em.
N.S.W.
RIP.


x>
V,"
A®
Ret
> V
40*"
wTm
f THE SMOKE
SHOWS THE FRICTION
POINTS WHERE IN WEFTED
CORD CASINGS, THE WEFT
RUBS ON THE CORDS . . .
CAUSING DESTRUCTIVE
/A
%
INTERNAL HEAT
%
By taking the Weft (cross-thread
out of tyre casings
DUNLOP gives motorists
*12% COOLER RUNNING
*52% LONGER CASING LIFE
3
L
Perdriau
Weftless cool cord tyres
WITH POUNDS MORE RUBBER IN THE TREADS
for 48% GREATER NON-SKID MILEAGE
ac ro


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
illiSßliiissi
■ i I i
SI
wrnmmm
■ "-Ml-
I ■^^■j
, v»«8W
BHH
M
ittgga#
■
■■■■
■
H
■
M
■
I
IaHM
fliili n
;■ n
gawßii
■ : I
w
ffl ■ I
■
1
:-■■■ ■
■
IIiMMHi
HI
iiiiiiii
iSli
■I
Jilii|B|ai
~ : '''"-
■I
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsßeld.
t/fffhtt liime 'cfWie mellcumeM <mdJxmq/H&t


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2939.
June 10, 1936.
LIKE THEIR CEMENT GUN, PERHAPS.
“We positively assure you that it isn’t loaded and can’t hit you; and even if it does it won’t hurt.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252 IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE GULLETT STUNT.
There were no Japanese buyers at the wool sales in
Victoria last week, and Dalgetys reported that prices
were “5 p.c. lower than April rates” ; “5 p.c. to 10
p.c. lower,” wrote Australian Estates and Mortgage.
There were no Japanese buyers at the weekly tallow
auctions, and a fall of 20s. to 40s. a ton was recorded
—one report says “the top price, £2O 10s. a ton, was
the lowest for years.” Meanwhile millers were advised
that they needn’t send any more flour to Manchukuo.
It then came out that this Japanese protectorate had
during the year to June 30, 1935, taken 5,000,000
centals of Australian flour, valued at £1,600,000 ster-
ling, out of a total of 14,000,000 centals exported (the
flour was shipped in 491 b. bags, “all made in Aus-
tralia”), though “the Minister for Trade Treaties”
had been under the impression that Japanese
purchases in Australia were virtually restricted to
wool.
For all his grandiloquent title, Mr. Gullett is a
Minister without a portfolio. It is extraordinary that
a momentous departure in national policy, imperilling
the prosperity of Australia’s greatest industry and
endangering its capacity to meet its overseas obliga-
tions, should have been announced by a gentleman
who is not in the Cabinet, and made effective without
consulting Parliament; but the Lyons Government
has extraordinary ways. The unanswerable charge of
Gregory, M.H.R., that the procedure violated its own
Tariff Board Act has been answered, after the Gov-
ernment’s fashion, by Senator Brennan, who admitted
that it was true up to a point.
It is true that the Tariff Board Act provides that the
Minister should refer to the board for inquiry and
report the _ necessity for new, increased or reduced
duties. This, however, is a provision which Parliament
may disregard. The one thing which Parliament cannot
do within the ambit of its legislative powers is to part
with or fetter its own powers.
But it is only a few weeks since the Government
argued that Parliament had, in effect, “parted with
or fettered its powers” when Mr. Gullett signed the
Ottawa Agreement. Down to November last there
was a duty of a shilling a hundredweight on British
cement; the Tariff Board recommended its abolition
and the Government abolished it without reference
to Parliament. The House then declared for a duty of
sixpence a hundredweight. Before this was carried
Mr. White, the Minister of Customs, protested that
it “would transgress Article 12 of the Ottawa Agree-
ment” (“Hansard,” p. 664). This being challenged, the
Minister said, “I expressed the opinion of the Govern-
ment” (“Hansard,” p. 683). The argument was trotted
out again in the Senate and dropped only when awk-
ward facts came out, such as that British cement
companies pay 20 p.c. dividends (no Australian cement
company ever does), and when it was realised that,
with trade-diversion about to be sprung on the public,
it would be expedient to throw crumbs to Protec-
tionists.
“The Government’s tariff policy,” said the Post-
master-General, quoting the Prime Minister, “provides
for tariff-making after public inquiry through the
Tariff Board, and not by arbitrary Ministerial action”
(Senate, April 24; “Hansard,” pages 877 and 878).
And with this virtuous declaration the Government
tried to get 20-p.c.-dividend British cement admitted
duty-free, and contended that its interpretation of the
Ottawa Agreement bound Parliament. Two or three
weeks go by and we find “the Government’s tariff
policy” sidetracked, the Tariff Board ignored, and
swingeing duties clapped on cotton and artificial-silk
piece goods “by arbitrary Ministerial action.” The
old duties were:
British. Foreign.
Cottons .. .. 5 p.c. ad val. 25 p.c. ad val.
„ . . . . 5 p.c. primage. 10 p.c. primage.
Artificial silks . . 20 p.c. ad val. 40 p.c. ad val.
„ 10 p.c. primage. 10 p.c. primage.
The new duties are:
British. Foreign.
Cottons —
Unbleached—per sq. yd. 4d.* 2|d.
Bleached —per sq. yd. .. Id.* 3d.
Printed, dyed or colored—
per sq. yd. .. .. 4d.* 3J-d.
No primage. 5 p.c. primage.
Artificial silks-
Per sq. yd. .. Hd. 9d.
No primage. 5 p.c. primage.
* Or 5 p.c., whichever is the less.
The Japanese say the duties affecting them are
prohibitive. Mr. Gullett asserts that they won't hit
the lapanese very hard, and that, in any case, they
are necessary to gain Australian trade for Father
Bull, so that Father may be induced to buy more
“primary produce” from Australia—meaning butter,
fruit, chilled meat and the like, not wool. Mean-
while, his Government is ready to take the risk of
the bottom falling out of the wool market because
the Japanese refuse to buy and withdraw the stimulus
of their bidding, and of a financial crisis developing
in London as a result.
Exports of wool far exceed in value exports of
all other kinds of primary produce put together.
Moreover, woolgrowing is almost the only “primary”
industry which yields steady tax-revenue and is not
bounty-fed. Neither does this industry clamor for
the tearing-up of the inter-State freelrade clause of
the Constitution in order that growers’ associations
may charge the Australian consumer what they like,
nor does it demand the sending of Ministerial dele-
gations to London to appear in Privy Council cases
and conduct protracted trade negotiations which, as
often as not, get nowhere. The woolgrowers’ idea
is that the less Ministers meddle in their business
the better.
In Australia there is a noticeable dearth of
enthusiasm for the Gullett stunt. It has, however, been
received with loud applause by Yorkshire and Lanca-
shire, naturally anxious to be rid of a formidable
competitor, and, in Yorkshire’s case, to get wool
cheap. The applause will be dearly bought if the
Japanese do what we ourselves would do if we were
in their situation and they in ours.
We gave the Japanese an initial grievance by
excluding them as immigrants. The necessity was
forced on us, and enlightened Japanese have admitted
it; in any case, Japan’s attitude to Australia has always
been correct, and latterly has been almost cordial.
But in our relations with this proud people we cannot
expect to have everything our own way, and all their
history shows that they are capable of avenging what
they regard as injuries, even to the point of national
self-sacrifice. It has been remarked that the President
of the Board of Trade did not join in the Lancashire
and Yorkshire rejoicings ; indeed, his frigidity seems
to have offended Dr. Page. Perhaps his idea is that
British interests will not really gain if the Australian
Government quarrels with Japan, in the process
gambling with the greatest Australian industry, and
that it is a case in which political considerations should
be weighed by the great minds at Canberra as well as
considerations of trade.
Negotiations for a settlement were in progress
at the week-end. A settlement is necessary to the
Commonwealth, even if it involves letting housewives
and busifiess-girls go on buying Japanese sheets and
underwear (a prospect that appals Mr. Gullett), and
even if it means summoning members from their fast-
nesses for a winter session at Canberra and/or getting
another Government.
THE TRANS-TASMAN TRADE WAR.
Australia and Maoriland are sisters as well as neigh-
bors. They have everything in common. Yet their
trade relationships could not be more unsatisfactory
if they belonged to rival Balkan groups.
Mr. H. V. C. Thorby, Dr. Page’s locum as
Minister for Commerce, made disingenuous references
to the subject in addressing the Agricultural Council
at Canberra. He said M.L. had put an embargo on
imports of Australian fresh fruit and vegetables, and
proceeded to review the position on that basis, stating
that his Government was anxious to promote harmoni-
ous trade relations. The doctor’s locum did not men-
tion that since 1919 Australia has interdicted imports
of Maoriland potatoes. In an indirect reference to
his Government’s refusal to admit Maoriland apples
and pears, he spoke of a partial lifting of this embargo
as if it were a favor.
The fact is that the Maoriland embargoes were
imposed in retaliation for the Australian ban on
Maoriland potatoes, apples and pears. Quarantine
has been dragged into the controversy as a pretext,
but a conference of Australian and M.L. quarantine
experts held at Canberra almost two years ago re-
ported that the embargoes had no scientific warrant.
Regarding apples, this conference decided that
imports from Maoriland might be resumed “without
practical risk” provided Maoriland certified that “the
fruit has been derived from uninfected orchards.”
Regarding potatoes, it found that “the prohibition
might be withdrawn and trade in this product safely
resumed.” So with exports of citrus fruit, which is
where the ban pinches Australia most:
Subject to certain certification by the Departments
of Agriculture in the various States, importation of
citrus fruit from Australia could be resumed without
risk of introduction of fruit fly.
These findings by experts show conclusively that
the ertfbargoes are political in character. To suit
certain interests —or, rather, the politicians dominated
by them—Maoriland produce was banned in Aus-
tralia. Maoriland retaliation has, according to Mr.
Thorby, cost Australia more than £lOO,OOO a year
since 1932-33 ; but his figures do not include bounties
paid to growers of apples, oranges and pears.
The partial lifting of the embargo on M.L. apples
is just a political trick. Apples certified to be from
districts free of fire-blight are to be admitted. But, in
announcing this precious concession, the Prime
Minister, who comes from the State which grows
most of the apples and potatoes, said;
Only one apple-producing district is free from fire-
blight. ft is of comparatively minor importance, and
its capacity to supply apples to Australia is small.
In other words, the concession is worthless.
Small wonder that Maoriland refuses to budge,
despite two Ministerial visits from Australia and a
full-dress Canberra conference representing l?oth
Governments.
Maoriland is Australia's only white neighbor.
From the parts of the Commonwealth in which five-
sevenths of the people live it is less remote than West-
ralia. Its soldier-sons were brigaded with Australia’s
in Gallipoli. The destinies of the two countries are
inseparable, and this was recognised when Maoriland
sent, and Australia welcomed, Sir George Grey and
Premier Atkinson to “the first Australian National
Convention” in 1891. But of recent years their
rulers have become, at best, distant acquaintances,
and the trade which the statesmen of another day
delighted to foster has slumped to such an extent that
in some years (notably 1929 and 1930) Maoriland buys
more from Canada than it buys from the Common-
wealth, and the Commonwealth regularly buys more
from Canada and the Netherlands East Indies than
it buys from Maoriland. And for all this decline in
sentiment and business Australian politicians are
chiefly to blame. Everyone at the full-dress Canberra
conference knew that Maoriland would have raised its
embargoes had the 'Commonwealth, which began the
sorry business, been willing to do the same.
PARLIAMENTARY PRIVILEGE.
“The visitor from another planet” whom publicists
are fond of inviting to express their opinion of what
his opinion, should be on matters which don’t meet
with their approval has, in his time, been made the
mouthpiece for much criticism of our institutions.
But there is one on which no one has troubled
to question him —Parliamentary privilege. Not the
privilege which enables one honorable member to call
another “a bloodsucking parasite” or to inform a
third that he is “lower than a snake’s abdomen.” That
doesn’t matter, because No. 2 can always retaliate
by telling No. 1 to “put his head in a bag”—which
gives No. 3 the opportunity of adding the thrust “He
couldn’t! His head’s too big.”
There are other Parliamentary privileges, how-
ever, on which the opinion of an outside authority
might be interesting and enlightening.
He would surely, for example, be loud in his
praises of the privilege which enables members to fix
their own salaries"and thus to restore their depression
“cuts” while taxation of incomes (not theirs ) goes up
to 16s. in the £ and 13 p.c. of unionists are un-
employed.
The privilege which grants them free transport
on non-paying railways, not only in their own elec-
torates, but all over the Commonwealth, he would
probably consider a splendid idea, while the privilege
which enables Ministers to evade responsibility by
appointing expensive royal commissions whose reports
can later be shelved and forgotten, or by creating a
multiplicity of boards behind whose operations they
may shelter, would undoubtedly evoke his admiration.
Then there is the privilege—a big one —by virtue
of which Ministers are able to arrange in rotation for
trips abroad at the public expense. With what nods
of approval he would read this sort of thing:
Three Ministers are likely to accompany Mr. Lyons
to the coronation next year....lt is expected that Dr.
Page and Mr. Menzies will remain in Australia, having
gone to London this year.
He would naturally approve of Mr. Drummond being
allowed to exercise his privilege as N. S. Wales
Minister for Education of going to Britain to attend
a conference, especially as he has never had a trip
before, and it might be some time before a better
excuse cropped up, as Mr. Stevens had already used
the one about catching up on world affairs.
The jaunt of Mr. Forgan Smith to a sugar con-
ference that was never held he would probably
endorse, on the grounds that any man should have
the right to visit his ain countree and that Mr. F.
Smith has only visited his twice in four years.
In Adelaide the “visitor’s” opinion might be asked
on a delicate little question of Parliamentary privilege.
It appears that members in the Betting Shop City
are not allotted sufficient space outside Parliament
House to park all their cars, and this causes them
quite a lot of inconvenience, as it is unthinkable that
a member could leave his car in a garage and walk
round the corner to the House. That procedure might
be all very well for businessmen, but it would be
hardly in keeping with the dignity of State politicians.
The S.A. Government is therefore considering
passing a special Act which will take away from the
City Council the power to control parking outside
Parliament House.
“Do you approve of this?” the Planetarian would
be asked.
“Certainly!” he would reply. “But I think you
should go further. Why not establish your right to
park anywhere you like? After all, with all the heavy
problems of State on your minds you mustn’t be
hindered by little things like that. Then there’s that
car tax you pay. What’s the good of being a member
if you don’t exercise your privileges? Members’ cars
should be tax-free! Pass an Act about it.
“And fancy the oil companies charging you for
your petrol! Where’s their patriotism? See that you
get it free in future. And those instalments on your
cars. Wipe ’em off! Bring in a moratorium or some-
thing. On my planet we don’t believe in half-
measures. If Parliamentary privilege means anything
it ought to mean everything. And while I’m on the
subject, I hear you’ve extended your term to five years.
A good move, but half-hearted. Now you’re in you
might as well stay in. Make it life! And”
But at this stage even a State politician would
probably begin to suspect that he was having his leg
pulled, and if the “visitor” delayed his departure any
longer he would find himself served with a neat little
taxation assessment as a reminder that even the un-
parliamentary have privileges.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hoare Comes Back.
Sir Samuel Hoare, who lost his position for being
right about “sanctions,” as did bur W. M. Hughes, is,
like “Billy,” back serving the Prime Minister who
was wrong. He has succeeded Lord Monsell, who
served in the navy for 12 years (1894-1906) and
returned to it in 1914, as First Lord of the Admiralty. •
And the “Daily Mail,” which was also right about
“sanctions,” reports that he has been assured by Mr.
Baldwin that “it is intended as quickly as possible
to remove all possibility of Anglo-Italian friction.”
This undertaking can only mean the cessation of
sanctions and the recall of the British fleet reinforce-
ments from the Mediterranean.
It is the best news that has come out of Britain
for many months. Australians want to see “sanctions”
abandoned without delay for overwhelming moral and
material reasons —because they are useless and danger-
ous, being loaded with dynamite ; because they have
converted a favorable balance of trade with Italy into
an unfavorable balance and led to the spectacle (whose
significance is wasted on the Government at Can-
berra) of members of the Italian Embassy “walking
about London in suits made of the new wool substi-
tute,” and because they are a standing invitation to
M. Blum and M. Litvinoff (whose opinions and
methods are very unlike those of the great Jews whom
Britons and Australians have known and honored)
to demand British Empire support for more “sanc-
tions”—against Germany.
And Australians want their warships and their
bluejackets back. They have been exposed to unneces-
sary perils too long.
. Coal “Control” in Queensland.
Quaint things happen under a Labor democracy. One
of Australia’s quaintest is the West Moreton Coal
Board.
This board was set up by Queensland Labor in 1933
with the excellent intention of saving an important
industry from collapse through insane competition. It
has power to fix the price of every grade of coal pro-
duced in the district which supplies Brisbane and its
neighborhood, to order any given consumer to use any
kind of coal it wishes, irrespective of the needs of
his industry, and to break contracts. The only appeal
is to the Central Coal Board, of which the Commis-
sioner for Prices is chairman—in other words, from
him to himself. Most intriguing of all, the board is
composed of seven colliery proprietors and only one
employees’ representative.
This board has used its price-fixing powers to such
effect that some manufacturers now pay up to 6s. per
ton more for certain classes of coal. Gas companies
pay Is. more for the same class. The Brisbane City
Council, using some 60,000 tons yearly, complains
that it has been heavily hit, and that it is not allowed
to obtain the kinds of coal required for certain of
its activities. The board replies that the increase is
needed to meet extra wages and workers’ compensa-
tion needs. The council asks, in rejoinder, why it
is not allowed to have more than 1000 tons from
Ebbw Vale, which is the particular coal best suited
to its needs, at a freight charge of 2s. 6d. per ton,
for each 10,000 tons of less suitable coal from other
collieries, at freight costs of 4s. and 4s. 6d.
Naturally the Government Railway Department
has sought a share in so lucrative a business. On the
council’s little lot the department collects gross revenue
amounting to 300 p.c. above the average train-mile
cost for South Queensland. The landed cost at the
council’s storage is 50 p.c. above cost at pit-mouth.
Special'hauling and shunting charges add a tidy sum,
and a 20 p.c. extra impost is added in order that
nothing may be missed. For example, from Bun-
damba loop to New Farm wharf costs 4s. 3d. per
ton ; to the powerhouse, which is another half-mile,
7s. sd. per ton.
Deputations to Queensland’s famous Minister
“for” Transport have received the obvious negative
in reply to requests for reduction.
There are complaints, too, about unreasonable
cartage charges where the railway cannot deliver direct
to consumers. Complaints that industries are being
ruined, or prevented from being established, because
the board takes no notice of the recommendations of
technicians and chemists concerning the particular
kinds or grades of coal required. Complaints that
a board composed of colliery proprietors should be
at liberty to annul contracts and dictate prices, to
put manufacturers out of business by refusing sup-
plies if it wishes. Complaints that consumers have no
representation on the board. Complaints especially of
rail-freight charges.
But complaints cut no ice with this Coal Board.
Three Days by Rail.
r N unprogressive days, before Queensland’s Minister
“for” Transport began to “regulate” motor traffic off
the roads which his colleague Mr. Bruce had so expen-
sively built from the proceeds of road-motor traffic,
fat lambs used to be carried from the Darling Downs
to the Brisbane market by road. The job was done
in a few hours, without loss of weight, condition or
value.
Nowadays, it takes three days to send lambs by
rail, with loss of weight up to 121 b., occasional damage
from rough handling and a cost, all in, of 33 p.c. on
value. To get them to the Thursday sales by rail,
lambs have to be taken away from their mothers
early on Monday, and no Government department
provides any food in the interval.
Whatever else the Forgan Smiths have done
for the primary producer, they are “doing for” this
section of the fat-lamb trade.
The “Argus” Has a Birthday.
Last week Melbourne “Argus” celebrated its ninetieth
birthday. It was founded as a four-page journal by
William Kerr, and the first issue appeared on June 2,
1846, when Victoria was still merely the tail-end of
N. S. Wales. Kerr was outspoken but reckless, and
libel costs forced him to sell out to Edward Wilson
after a stormy two years.
Wilson bought out two rival sheets, the Port
Phillip “Patriot” and the “Daily News,” and absorbed
them in the “Argus.” In 1852 he took into partner-
ship Lauchlan Mackinnon, and the firm-name Wilson
and Mackinnon still appears above the leader columns.
To-day the “Argus” cannot boast the circulation
figures of contemporaries with a greater appeal to
flappers and knuts. But number of copies sold is not
everything, and, despite book offers and football com-
petitions, the old paper has maintained its reputation
for fair reporting and honest opinions, fearlessly
stated. It stands very high among Conservative news-
papers in the Empire.
The Deadhead’s Argument.
History lends little support to the theory of Australian
politicians and bureaucrats that it is necessary for
them to go abroad every now and then —salary paid
and first-class transport and accommodation found —
because “travel enlarges the mind.” Those whose
minds are capable of being enlarged could get suffi-
cient instruction for their purposes by making a
right use of newspapers, technical magazines, talk-
ing pictures, wireless and overseas ’phones. And
men have risen to towering heights of achieve-
ment without even these aids to improvement.
In an age destitute of every one of them, a
glover’s son, with “small Latin and less Greek,” went
from a small Warwickshire town to London, where
he got his living by hanging round playhouses, doing
a bit of acting and hack-writing. In time he became
a recognised actor and dramatist. He returned to
his small town quarter of a century later, his work
done. That was the extent of his travels ; and the
world agrees that his mind was the greatest ever
vouchsafed to the race.
Newton, Burns, Washington and Lincoln were
others who immortalised themselves without indulg-
ing in deadhead foreign tours. Lincoln, called to
the leadership of his country in its most terrible emer-
gency, and fully equal to it, was a small-town man
nearly all his life.
Australian experience is that 90 p.c. of the poli-
ticians who go abroad learn nothing but what is
useless —and worse.
Moving Towards Municipal Sanity.
The “Greater Melbourne” movement has for years
found many supporters, some no doubt attracted by
the suggestion of civic grandeur the name conveys
and others by a hope that the establishment of a
single municipal authority would mean economy in
administration and a reduction in rates.
Agitation resulted in the 26 municipalities inter-
ested appointing a committee to consider the proposal.
The committee unanimously rejected the idea of a
Greater Melbourne Council, but recognised the desir-
ability of certain municipal functions being unified.
To bring this about, it has suggested thal the
powers of the Board of Works be extended to include
control of metropolitan arterial roads and bridges,
townplanning, housing, foreshores, motor-passenger
services and additional parks and gardens.
The board already controls water supply and
1 sewerage, and also main draihage and streams. This
extension of its powers would leave to the municipali-
ties their purely local and domestic responsibilities.
The suggestion that members of the reconstructed
board should be elected by the ratepayers was rejected.
The 40 members of the board are at present elected
by the various councils, and this system it is proposed
to retain.
The scheme has much to commend it. The board
is a working body without the hampering trappings
of a council (its chairman doesn’t even have to wel-
come film actresses), and some of the functions it is
proposed to transfer are a constant source of trouble
owing to divided control and the differing views and
wants of municipalities. The plan would prevent, for
instance, the recurrence of such a thing as the Toorak-
road bridge holdup, when the public was put to
months of unnecessary inconvenience because the rival
authorities concerned couldn’t agree whose responsi-
bility it was to replace the bridge which had been
destroyed by floods.
The recommendations of the committee will be
considered by the various councils this month. If
they are wise and sincere in the public interest, they
will accept them.
A “Surplus” Minister.
Australia has 73 Ministers; and probably 33 are
surplus. South Africa has a proper sort of “surplus”
Minister: he has produced a Budget surplus in every
one of the 12 years during which he has been in
office, save in the worst depresssion year. This
unique financier is Mr. Havenga. In his latest Budget
speech he forecast a surplus of £3,000,000.
Mr. Havenga is going to restore public-service
salary cuts and extend old-age pensions. His Govern-
ment intends redeeming over £18,000,000 of London
loans this year. Goldmining taxation —very heavy,
judged by Australian standards —is to be simplified.
This, it is promised, will mean more employment in
South Africa, already enjoying a wave of prosperity.
The Government railway budget, which is
separate, might also be studied with advantage by
our politicians. This has a surplus of £3,000,000 of
its own. Our seven railway departments report that
their losses last year amounted to £1,538,000 ; and it
was really a lot more, for in N. S. Wales £BOO,OOO of
tax-revenue is included as railway receipts, and in
Queensland £28,000,000 was “written off capital
account,” resulting in profits being annually declared
instead of huge losses. Even so, 1935 is proclaimed
“the most successful year since 1926.”
What’s the Matter with France?
Australia and Maoriland, though bound by British
foreign policy, get only portion of the truth about
foreign affairs. By now it should be clear to even
the thick-headed that most of the “news” about Abys-
sinia sent this last twelvemonth came from tainted
sources, and that on every material phase of a situa-
tion that concerned these countries deeply they were
misinformed from first to last. It all suggests that
we are not getting the facts about other aspects of
the European situation in which, since “the League
Covenant” has become “the cornerstone of British
foreign policy,” we are in danger of becoming
involved.
After a course of Manchester “Guardian” and
“News-Chronicle” mush, with now and again an
untasty dish provided by the “Times”—nowadays
more of a mumbler than a “Thunderer” —it is almost
bewildering to read what J. L. Garvin, most eminent
of political journalists, writes in the “Observer” and
what appears in the “Aeroplane,” edited by C. J.
Grey, who also edits the authoritative “All the
World’s Aircraft.”
Mr. Grey has a good opinion of our Mr.
Stanley Melbourne Bruce (“an officer and a gentle-
man, as impartial a judge as anybody could
wish”), but he has no use for Mr. Anthony Eden,
“our juvenile Foreign Minister,” or for “Russian mass-
murderers” or French politicians—“a succession
of terrified lawyers, the ever-changing figureheads
of a nation wherein corruption of the Stavisky sort
is the basis of political and business life.” He asserts
that Paris and Moscow politicians are trying to drag
the British Empire into another German war, and
that the British public won’t have it.
Whatever Mr. Eden and his friend‘Litvinoff wish,
the English people are not going to light Germany,
and especially are they not going tp fight Germany
at the instance of France and Russia. Surely even
poor, senile Mr. Baldwin can see what the Franco-
Russian game is.
The “Aeroplane” man goes on to make these state-
ments —and it has to be remembered that he has
been a recognised authority on aircraft for five-and-
twenty years: —•
Behind all this French dread of Germany is the
air menace, and behind the particular dread of the
moment is a fact which few people know:
The new generation of French bombers, so to
speak, is a washout. The French single-seat fighters
are a washout also.
Up against the new Heinkels and the new Savoias,
let alone our new Bristols and Faireys and Hawkers
and Armstrongs, the French air force is a joke. That
is what is the matter with France.
It may be true. It can scarcely be more remote
from the truth than the “sanctionist” stuff about Italy
and Abyssinia. In any case, Australians want no
entangling alliance with either France or Russia.
As in the time of the First Revolution Paris is
now represented by Red deputies; and the wholesale
seizure of factories and workshops is ominous. The
Redder the French become the firmer should be the
Empire’s refusal to let Blums and Litvinoffs decide
its destinies.
Fun in Geneva.
Gilbert and Sullivan died too early to enjoy Geneva,
which would have provided them with a lot of merry
plots. What a basis for a comic opera there is in
the report of the dispute between Uruguay and Russia,
in which Australia, all unknowing, has had a part!
Uruguay is next door to Brazil. While Brazil
was enjoying one of its perennial revolutions its
Government told the Uruguayans that the Soviet
representative in their capital was issuing large bearer
cheques by way of supporting the revolution. So
Uruguay kicked Stalin’s ambassador out of Monte-
video “without previous recourse to the methods laid
down in Article 12 of the Covenant.”
An anguished cry went up from M. Litvinoff. “A
breach of the fundamental principles of the League”
had been “committed.” He told the League with
injured innocence that “there was no connection
between the Communist International and the Soviet
Government.” Nobody believed him.
The Uruguayan delegate claimed that there was
no breach of Article 12 ; that to kick out an ambas-
sador was “purely a domestic act.” Comrade Litvinoff
admitted that there was no likelihood of the move
provoking a war.
And all the League could do was to “hope that
the interruption of relations was temporary,” and to
“invite the two parties to refrain from acts harmful
to peace.”
The final comic touch was a message couched in
terms of old-world courtesy thanking our Stanley
Bruce “for the distinguished manner in which he,
as president,” had “upheld the traditions of the
League.”


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED with WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”: The old music-
hall song about the captain
who swore he’d stick to his
ship was recalled by the
plight of a Melbourne lorry-
driver last week. Two barrels'
of liquid glue rolled off his
lorry and spilt their contents
on the roadway. For some
time delighted onlookers
watched his efforts to scoop
the stuff back into the casks
with a spade. The glue was
setting rapidly, and the
driver’s antics as he worked,
standing in the sticky puddle,
were not unlike those of a fly
on a fly-paper— except that
he didn’t buzz. For a while
it looked as though he might
remain stuck there perma-
nently—a monument to the
gripping power of his firm’s
product; perseverance won,
however, and the best advertising oppor-
tunity of the century was missed.
% % % Jj:
“Triple Bob”; That drawing of the
dairyman who had been a bellringer (B.
20/5/’36) reminds me that next year will
be a heavy one for the latter class. Most
churches of standing will ring a major
in honor of the coronation. With eight
bells this calls for 40,320 different
sequences and takes 28 hours’ non-stop
ringing, each ringer swinging his bell 5000
times. More formidable still is the maxi-
mus, only rung in theory. This would
involve 479 million changes and take 40
years to ring.
* * * ,
“Lopez”: Press item from Pentridge,
the day before Sodeman was hanged:
His constant companion in his last
hours was Cornelius, also under sentence
of death. Late in the afternoon the two
condemned men faced each other across a
draughts-board for a final game.
How irresistibly it recalls the last story
O. Henry ever wrote —and left unfinished.
Murray and Bonifacio, one recalls, both
due for the electric chair, were wont to
while away the long hours in “Limbo
Lane” over “checkers” —draughts. But,
being confined in opposite cells, they had
to shout their moves across the interven-
ing space at one another—a thing that
must involve some difficulties at draughts,
however few it may present to the chess
addict. We are more merciful to doomed
criminals nowadays; a four at bridge
may be the next possibility.
* * * *
“The Sceptic”: Recent storms at Nor-
folk Island have unearthed two skeletons,
one of a woman with a silver chain
round her neck. The not altogether guile-
less islanders have decided that this is the
skeleton of Sylvia of His Natural life;
and so another legend is on its way, for
the entertainment of future visitors. A
few years ago a loquacious ancient drove
me round the island, stopping at the dif-
ferent stations and telling the appropriate
tales about the Bloody Bridge, the Cas-
cades and other places of interest. At
Longridge he showed me the remains of
the shearing-sheds, and presently led me
to a pile of masonry where, on one huge
block, I could just make out the names
“Rufus Dawes.” “That block’s worth
some money,” he hazarded. I mildly
suggested that Rufus was a novelist’s
creation, but he refused to be convinced.
•1= * * *
“Oxmead”: Unquestionably, as “Bib-
liophile” shows (B. 3/6 / ’36), Stevenson
expressed regret later for the violence
of his “Open Letter to Dr. Hyde,” but
whether he would have qualified the sub-
stance of it—as apart from the form—
is another question. I cannot find that
he ever did. Although Stevenson, unlike
Hyde, never met Father Damien, he visited
Molokai in May, 1890, within a month
of the priest’s death, and talked with
doctors, nurses and others who had
known Damien well. On that occasion
he wrote, before he had ever seen Hyde’s
indictment: “His [Damien’s] imperfec-
tions are the traits of his race by which
we know him for our fellow ; his martyr-
dom and his example nothing can lessen
"Now let that be a lesson to you. I told you to stop prodding him.”
or annul.” Is not this the verdict of his-
tory? And why was the American press
the only way open to Hyde for his reply?
Seeing that the original letter was pub-
lished, however inadvertently, in a Syd-
ney newspaper, and that Stevenson’s de-
fence of Damien was first published in
pamphlet form in Sydney, and afterwards
in the “Scots Observer” (Edinburgh)
before it appeared in book form, surely
the reverend doctor need not have gone
to San Francisco or New York to try
to vindicate himself.
“C.R.M.” on the same subject: “Bib-
liophile” quotes Stevenson as writing to
Mrs. Charles Fairchild in Sept., 1890:
“I regret my letter to Dr. Hyde. I think
it was barbarously harsh.” He omits to
tell us that Stevenson added: “If I did
it now I would defend Damien no less
well, and give less pain to those who are
alive. As yet there has come no action.
The injured Doctor has contented him-
self with the (truly innocuous) vengeance
of calling me a Bohemian crank.” There
is no doubt that Stevenson had been pre-
cipitate, and realised it when he had
cooled down; my impression of the
whole incident is that Dr. Hyde comes
out of it not at all discreditably.
* * $
“J.G.”: The latest horticultural craze
that has struck Melbourne is supplied
by the cactus or prickly-pear. Numerous
varieties of the devastating plant are
finding a ready sale as possible attrac-
tions for suburban gardens. I have seen
specimens of Queensland’s spiny curse
sold at ss. a time for plants about a
foot high, and double the price given for
saucers of smaller cacti (with some rock
and sand thrown in). The buyers show
their purchases proudly to their friends
as samples of the Arizona or Mexican
deserts.
❖%' * ❖
“L.W.”: That Mount Lofty fog (B.
20/5/’36) must be a pale imitation of
the real thing if it makes cars burn their
lights. At Launceston, where fogs are
fogs, you have to switch lights off, even
at night, if you want to see where you
are going. A genuine fog throws your
lights right back at you from a distance
of three or four feet, and so makes visi-
bility positively nil. Only by turning the
lights out do you get a chance of seeing
something of the road and of approach-
ing traffic. The horn is a better warning
to others than lights, which they can’t
see, and there is no need to fear fast
drivers in a real fog.
“Jobber”: Maimed sailors (B.
27/5/’36)? A cobber and 1 were stand-
ing on the pier at Brighton (England)
early in 1916 when a chap, badly crippled
and on crutches, asked if we had been
on Gallipoli? When we told him yes,
he said he knew it by the way we spoke
and looked. Over a tankard the reminis-
cences began. Did we remember the old
Triumph? I told him I missed seeing
the ship disappear by less than a minute ;
when I reached the end of the sap, all I
saw was the swirling water —and figures.
Our acquaintance, it transpired, had been
„ „ „ a . . ...
a gunner on Ihe veteran and was at his
post when the tinned fish struck; he
went up with the rest, and had been
months in hospital. He talked affec-
tionately o£ the Anzacs, and of how his
ship had covered so many of our landing
parties. In the end the terrible memo-
ries were too much for him ; he broke
down and cried like a child,
* m =;= =;=
“G.A.L.”: Mention of terms that are
sometimes found puzzling at Flinders
Naval Depot (B. 29/4/’36) recalls the
time when a raw recruit was sent for a
length of rope. He bailed up Tom
McCaffery, the depot painter, and told
him that the first lieutenant wanted him.
“Wants me?” inquired Tom. The
matelot repeated that this was so. “What
exactly did he say?” drawled the other.
“Said for me to get a lazy painter,” came
the reply, “and you’re the only painter
nmnnH hMp ”
arouna nere.
“Old-timer”: One of the quaintest
scenes in which the bagpipes were played
(B. 13/5/’36) was when the Yarriambac
Creek rose in flood and inundated portions
of Warracknabeal (Vic.) some 25 years
ago. A Scottish horse-doctor refused to
evacuate his home close to the Dimboola
bridge, and laughed at his neighbors, as
they ’struggled on to the hospital hill with
their portable possessions. By evening
the vet, and his wife were isolated, and
anxious glances were cast their way from
the hill. At dusk no light showed, and it
was assumed they had departed. Sud-
denly, loud and clear over the water,
came “Cock o’ the North,” and the crowd
breathed relief, for it was the vet. s habit
to play the pipes at that time every night.
Some young men who had got close to
the house reported the Scot striding up
and down his verandah in watei to the
knees, his pipes flinging Gaelic defiance
at the flood. Later, the skirling drew
nearer, and a cheering crowd welcomed
the vet. as, with his wife clinging to his
back and the pipes shrilling, he waded
waist-high through the flood to safety,
beaten but unbowed.
* * * *
“Port- Augusta” : Addition of violet
dye to metho. (B. 6/5/’36) wouldn t deter
an old school pal of mine ( cet. 10 years)
provided, of course, that he drinks
metho., which I don’t guarantee. What
I can vouch for is his early predilection
for school inks ; the more brilliant the
color, the better he liked them. Red ink
he used to lap up like milk, and green
apparently went down without touching
the sides, but violet was his especial
favorite. His expression of entire satis-
faction as he used to sneak out of the ink-
room with purple-stained lips is one of
the most beautiful recollections of my
youth.
=i= * * *
“Trevdee”: Some suburban hawkers are
so persistent that a “Beware of the Dog’
notice leaves them cold. In parts
of St. Kilda (Vic.) householders are
adopting fiercer warnings, such as
“Beware of Bulldogs—enter at your
peril,” and “Savage Alsatian Inside.
Keep out!” Even these have no effect
on one pedlar I know, who proudly
boasts that no dog has ever attempted to
bite him. His defence is a mysterious
scent spray and an astute knowledge of
canine behavior.
“Uramao”: A motorist
travelling along a Taranaki
(M.L.) road rubbed his eyes
recently when he saw at a dis-
tance what looked like sema-
phore signals from the top
of a milk-can by the road-
side. Coming closer, he found
a pair of small legs in rapid
motion. The motorist yanked
out their owner, just in time
to save him from drowning.
The boy had inserted his
head for a drink and had
toppled in.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: Gone at last
from Pirie-street, Adelaide,
to make room for a ware-
house, the historic stables
which used to house Hill and
Co.’s coaches and teams.
They were the Cobb and Co.
of S.A., running 300 miles
south-east to Mount Gambier,
nearly as far north, and up
the Murray into N.S.W. to
Wentworth at the Darling
junction. They also “horsed”
most of the city’s doctors, and
had at one time anything up
to 1000 horses to draw upon.
John Hill, father of Clem and the other
cricketers, was head of the firm.
-i' -I* •I’
“O. de V.”: I knew only one hang-
man intimately, and he worked for me
(in a different capacity) for some time
before I discovered his other vocation ;
but he had nothing in common with those
benevolent, inoffensive executioners lately
recorded in The Bulletin. Among his
fellow-workers he was not only a bad
mixer but a chronic nark. Some petty
thefts among the men had been causing
suspicion ; one day the nark sidled up
and informed me that he had seen a
youth in possession of some of the stolen
goods. Sure enough, we found practi-
cally all the missing articles, although
the boy appeared genuinely flabbergasted
at their appearance in his bag. Next
morning, however, it was the hangman
who was missing. The camp cook, a
quiet old bird who never talked about
the places where he had been, had given
him the option of clearing out or Laving
his vocation made known to the camp.
Ketch went.
#
“Alpha”: There’s a lot of sense in
“Kali’s” argument about teaching kid-
dies the dangers of electricity in school
(B. 27/5/’36), but it doesn’t always work
out to plan. I once took all the wife’s
electrical gadgets over to the classroom
and demonstrated all the suicidal
approaches I could think of. An irate
parent turned up next morning and
thanked me to be minding the job I was
paid to attend to, in place of showing
her kids how to operate appliances. She
considered that adequate safety pre-
cautions were ensured by flogging any
of her offspring who touched switch or
gadget, so there!
FIRST AID.
“Mr. Thomas swept liis hand dazedly across his
forehead and clenched his pipe between his teeth.
His son handed him a whisky-und-soda.”— Cable.
What would you like if you were stunned and
reeling
Beneath some staggeringly sudden shock,
Some devastating blow that left you feeling
As if the world about you were a-rock,
Some document in damning terms revealing
You had to sky the wipe and take the
knock?
In such dark depths of desolate despair
Where would you look for comfort, brother,
where?
Although you hold all forms of fraud abhor-
rent,
Although you own a conscience clean and
clear
Of cloying mud as any mountain torrent,
Of imperfections as a cask of beer,
Such knowledge of itself would hardly warrant
Your rage and bitterness to disappear.
Mens conscia recti, while a staying cup,
Can hardly be esteemed a pick-me-up.
But when foul Fortune fetches you a facer,
As when your girl has given you the gate,
Or when your bottom bob was on a racer
Who faded out whole lengths before the
straight,
A fair-sized tot (with or without a chaser)
Will generally serve to mitigate,
In some degree, the storm that looked to burst
Your soul and body clean apart at first.
Ah! life is full of traps and mis-
adventures,
Pits into which the slickest of
us slips;
When once a man has erred how
swiftly censures
Rise from a thousand Pharisaic
lips.
Still, there’s some virtue yet in
“modest quenchers,”
Some fair excuse at times for
heart’ning nips.
Grant me, ye gods, whene’er my
dash is done,
Succor as prompt as came from
Jimmy’s son!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Findy”: The gentle buzz of gossip in
a Melbourne tea-shop was disturbed on
a recent afternoon by an indignant squeal
from a lady seated by a window over-
looking Collins-street. When the cause
of the disturbance dropped her cup,
dashed out of the room and tore down-
stairs, curiosity reached a high pitch.
What could she have seen to make
her act so strangely? Many explana-
tions were hazarded, most of them
involving the eternal triangle, but the
real one was simple enough. From her
post of vantage the woman had recog-
nised on another female promenading
proudly along the other side of the street,
a fur coat which had been stolen from
her 18 months previously. She caught
and tackled the wearer and called a
policeman, and was subsequently able to
identify the coat and secure a conviction.
And yet they make such a fuss about the
memory of an elephant!
% * ;f: *
“S.G.”: Year after year I marvel at
sentences .meted out in N.S.W. Criminal
Courts. In all ages and countries coining
has been regarded as a grave offence
against the State, as well as one of the
cruellest frauds on individuals; but in
N. S. Wales a conviction for coining
brought a sentence of 18 months. More
recently a man was given 12 months for
manslaughter. He had gone to the
victim’s house and kicked, him so fear-
“But before We were married you used to boast you could do that a
hundred times, Arthur .”
fully that the poor devil died after linger-
ing for a day or two in what must have
been excruciating agony. One of the
newspaper reports mentioned that “his
features were unrecognisable” ; but the
Judge declared it “a case for the exer-
cise of a considerable degree of lenity.”
And last week a man got four years for
bigamy. Two ceremonies were involved,
and there were 13 years between. The
first wife admitted that she had “lived with
him at his hotel for three days” before
the event, “in order to break down her
mother’s opposition to the marriage,
adding that she had given him the air in
1930. The second, a lady of means,
said she had married him in 1935, lived
with him for six weeks, gone to England
alone, and, returning, left him on his
confessing that he had been unfaithful.
The defence rested on a shabby attempt
to prove an American marriage in 1920,
and there was mention of qnother
“affair,” together with aliases and admis-
sions of “previous convictions.” A
rascal, no doubt; but four years!
“Exdig”: An ex-soldier was
killed by the explosion of a
Mills bomb at Coogee, Syd-
ney ; his daughter and another
man were injured. There are
probably more Mills bombs,
regarded by their possessors as
souvenirs worth keeping, in
Australia; to obviate more
fatalities or mishaps a little ad-
vice may be of use. If the
safety-pin rusts, as rust it will
in places near the sea coast, it
may break away, releasing the
spring which discharges the
detonator. The detonator
should be removed. This can
easily be done by unscrewing
the base plug of the bomb.
The bomb is then safe enough
unless exposed to great heat.
But the detonator should be
destroyed. It is a very sensi-
tive contraption. In France 1
once saw a man’s hand blown
off because he had gripped a
detonator in it; the heat of
his palm was sufficient.
“Erua”; I have a vivid recollection of
my first encounter with a fellow in
plus-fours. A youthful relative who had
become engaged to an English visitor
had invited our elderly and entirely Vic-
torian aunt to meet her betrothed at
morning-tea. It fell to me to escort
Aunt Emily to the scene of the meeting.
Into a garden setting strode a young man
just back from the links, and his entry
reduced the company to a stunned silence.
It was after the tea-meeting was over
that Aunt Emily became voluble. “I
never thought,” she said, “that I’d live
to see the day when one of my nieces
would introduce as her future hus-
band a creature masquerading in tartan
bloomers!”
'{• *l*
“S.T.S.”: Sir Robert Horne deserves
all the tributes that can be paid to him for
cleverness (B. 13/5/’36). On his sole
visit here, having joined the Narkunda
at Colombo, he said to me, at Fremantle,
“I have a telegram to lunch in Adelaide
with a man named . Should 1
accept?” The answer being “Most cer-
tainly,” he spent much of the next day or
two in picking up local knowledge, rang-
ing from Colonel Light, the founder, to
the Premier of the moment. Over the
teacups he said pleasantly to a girl who
lived in Sydney: “A nice place ; but not
equal to Melbourne.” Then, catching my
eye, “And I understand that neither of
them can compare with Adelaide for
culture.” And, like Bernard Shaw, he
sat back and enjoyed the all-in fight he
had started. Finally, at the after-lunch
speech in Adelaide, he astonished every-
one by his intimate local knowledge, and
declaimed a brilliant “impromptu” verse
—carefully prepared. It ended;
Then God the listening world surveyed:
“Let there be Light—and Adelaide.”
(Tremendous applause.) I felt I had
acquired a strong insight into the methods
of success in practical politics.
“I could have sworn I saw that move !”
“Dominic”: “Throughout the terri-
tories recovered from Austria, Italy
pays to the Austrian ex-soldiers who
fought against her exactly the same pen-
sions as are paid to Italians.” A fact
recorded in European Journey. Gibbs
remarks that it seems very fair on the
part of the Mussolini Government. A
good many people would consider it
remarkably generous.
“Afrikander”; For a really joyous mis-
print, take a recent one from my own
land. The lions in the National Reserve
are not increasing in numbers as they
should ; and a Cape newspaper attributes
this to “increased morality among the
younger animals.”
* * * *
“Yarragundry”: The death of Fuad
of Egypt reminds me of my only near-
contact with him. The 14th A.G.H.
was crowded with
wounded from the
suc c e s sful Gaza-
Beersheba opera-
tions. One morning
Lady Allenby arrived
and found time for
a few sympathetic
words with every
wounded man.
Shortly after it was
announced that the
new Khedive would
pay us a ceremonial
visit. A portly, typi-
cal Gyp p o, he
bustled in with his
retinue, threw a brief
glance right and left,
never smiled, did not
even walk the length
of the ward, spoke
to no one and
exited by a side door.
There were some
grumblings at his
aloofness, summar-
ised by our ward
M.O. with the com-
ment : “If he had
nothing to say, he
might at least have
brought his harem
for us to look at.”
But the Khedive’s
coat - tails were
flickering through the door then —and I
don’t suppose he would have understood
the remark, even if he had heard it.
* * * #
“Barangkali”: Whether the weight of
stamps should be added to that of a
letter consigned by air mail is becoming
a vexed question in countries like the
Malay Peninsula and the Belgian Congo.
The official ruling is that stamps must be
affixed before the letter is weighed. But
often in small up-country offices it is im-
possible to buy stamps for any of the
larger denominations; hence the sender
is forced to cover his envelope with small-
value stamps, which are liable to make
the letter overweight. The senders con-
sider this is the fault of the Post Office,
and are refusing to pay the extra charge.
*❖* * *
“Ming”; An elderly clergyman told me
of his nearest approach to participation
in crime. He was returning home in the
a.m. hours after a visit to a sick parish-
loner, when he encountered in a lonely
street a solitary pedestrian struggling
with a heavy suitcase. The cleric,
always benevolent, asked if he might give
a hand, and after a startled glance the
other muttered that he would be glad
of it. Together they battled with the
weighty baggage, and at last landed
it safely on the railway platform. A
few minutes later a grateful passenger
waved farewell to the clergyman from the
back of the train. It was only when a
wealthy parishioner who had been so-
journing at the seaside returned home
and found a large quantity of plates and
other valuables missing that the clergy-
man began' to have misgivings. He kept
his own counsel, however.
* * *
“Ming”: Queer vehicle thefts? One
hot morning in Sydney a carter, convey-
ing a load of ice-chests from factory
to purchasers, left his lorry unattended
while he slipped into the nearest bar for
a quick one. Along came two unem-
ployed youths, opportunists and good
drivers, and two minutes later an agitated
carter rushed out to see his vehicle dis-
appearing in a cloud of dust. The mis-
creants went full speed to one of Sydney’s
outer suburbs where bushfires had been
raging in the near-by scrub for some
days, and smoke-dried housewives rushed
the astounding offer of ice-chests at £1
apiece. After selling out their entire
stock the vendors, promising to come out
with a further supply immediately, drove
off, ran the stolen lorry into a patch of
dense scrub and vanished.
* * * *
“Streamer”: The 216th anniversary of
the man who may justly be called the
father of sensational journalism is shortly
to be celebrated in his native town of
Bodenwerder, Germany. To most people
Baron Munchausen is a myth invented by
some clever writer to hide his own iden-
tity. But Hieronymus Karl Friedrich
Freiherr von Miinchhausen was a real
person, born in 1720. He saw much mili-
tary service with the Russian army
against the Turks, and in his old age
settled down on the family estate in Ger-
many, where he wrote his famous reminis-
cences. Few read his works now, but his
name has passed into a proverb and his
imitators are legion.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Lucky escapes from aero-
plane crashes (B. 6/5 / ’36)? While
mooching along the banks of old Father
Thames at Richmond one afternoon in
T 6, I saw a ’plane hurtling earthwards
on the other side of the river and heard
the crash when it hit a building. In next
morning’s paper I read that the ’plane
had lobbed on the roof of a house, and
stuck hard and fast. The pilot had
merely hopped out of the cockpit,
browsed down the stairs and out into the
street —without a scratch.
FEMININE WEAPONS.
“I’rench suffragettes, invading the galleries in
force, threw grey stockings inscribed ‘Even when
we have the right to vote your socks will be
mended’ upon the heads of Senators, who took the
gesture good-humoredly.”
In France, it seems, the female-suffrage move-
ment
Is gaining new adherents day by day;
And what a really notable improvement
The methods of the voteless sex display!
They do not fight with screams and shrieks and
clamors,
As did their English sisters long ago,
They have no time for window-smashing
hammers;
Grey woollen footwear is the most they
throw.
And diehard Senators, the worst objectors
To this reform, can hardly be offended
To be assured, when women are electors,
Their socks will still be mended.
The Pankhurst crowd of petticoated Tartars
In London town who used to break the peace
Prized nothing more than to be ranked as
martyrs
And dragged away to prison by police.
They sought to gain their ends by raising
Hades,
They held themselves from all conventions
free.
How far more subtly feminine the ladies
WhoTe out to get the vote in “Gay Paree.”
They delicately hint: “We know the missions
For which our sex was patently intended,
But even when we’re budding politicians
Your socks will still be mended.”
They do not seek to compass their objective
By futile force or savage repartee;
They bank upon a weapon more effective
In woman’s wit —and gentle irony.
O France, 1 used to think, of Europeans,
You were the nation that before the war
Had absolutely most to learn from we ’uns,
But now I’m glimpsing you can teach us
more.
The startled Senators looked in doubt for
The cause why wool upon their polls de-
scended.
And grinned to read: “Just give us what we’re
out for,
Your socks will still be mended.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


2«/„ r r6
10/^y
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE CORK TIP P-E D CIGARETTE
GENERATION
THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
Denying that he intends to become
High Commissioner or chairman of the
inter-State Commission, Lyons tells
“critics” that “politicians generally are
not waiting for some plum to fall.” It
may be true of some, but others have
been known to make a blackguard rush
to get under the plum-tree and shake it.
“Follow Britain” is Lyons’s motto ; and
his Government has been following
Britain with winkers on. But Pearce,
who is Minister for External Affairs, is
convinced after seven months of “sanc-
tions” that, in foreign affairs, it won’t do.
We can no longer base our foreign
policy on the principle of blindly following
the lead of Britain. •
A welcome conversion; but did Pearce
speak for the Government or merely for
himself? The question wouldn’t be neces-
sary if Lyons’s “leadership” hadn’t be-
come a bad joke.
The J udge and two K.Cs. who inquired
into the Budget-leakage business are satis-
fied that “there was an unauthorised dis-
closure” by Thomas to Butt, M.P., and
Bates, and that the information was used
by Butt and Bates “for private gain.” The
interesting trio are unfortunate in that
the affair didn’t happen in Australia. In
that case there would have been a royal
commission which would have brought in
a 20,000-word elaboration of the
coroner’s-inquest verdict —“no blame
attachable to anyone.”
Our Great Dailies are now shouting
that “Sanctions Should Be Dropped” ;
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” published a
leader with that heading. It is a case of
being wise after the event. They were
all for “sanctions” seven months ago.
Before the Senate broke up for one
of its numerous holidays, James Mc-
Lachlan (S.A.) described the British High
Commissioner as “an active gentleman
whose duty is to guide and direct us,”
Words like these would have been the
equivalent of a political death-warrant
a quarter of a century ago, but an ap-
palling number of present-day politicians
is evidently willing to be thus guided and
directed. The Canberra Parliament is
full of worms.
“It is feared in some circles,” says
Australian Mercantile Land and Finance,
“that one of the consequences of
the change of tariff policy will be to
stimulate the manufacture of wool sub-
stitutes ; but there is evidence that this
possibility has been fully taken into
account by the Government.” Where is
the “evidence”? Has the Government
ever been known to take anything “fully
into account” except the revenue col-
lected by its taxing departments—in the
case of income tax, sales tax and postage,
partly by extortion?
Bruce has crowned his financial work
in London by arranging for a conversion
loan of £16,551,403 at 2\ p.c., price of
issue being £99. The State loans to be
converted are mainly 4\ per cents., and
the saving to N. S. Wales alone in in-
terest and exchange on £10,944,600 will
be £240,000 a year. Certainly a good
start towards the fulfilment of
promise to “balance the Budget next
year.”
Haile Silassie has turned up in Lon-
don with his suite and “41 boxes, be-
lieved to contain gold.” The “Times”
is trying to make a hero of him, and the
escaped Lion of Judah has embarrassed
the Government by inviting the diplo-
matic body to a swarry at the Abys-
sinian Legation—this, after assuring it
that he would come to England as a
private pusson. Mr. Eden is now con-
vinced that Mussolini is not the only
perfidious potentate.
Safe in the Hyde Park Hotel, where
he has hired “almost a whole floor” and
holds Court in “a silver-and-red draw-
ing-room with gilt furnishings,” Haile
Silassie has discovered that he lost the
war because “our subjects were poisoned,
burned and decimated by gas.” Deci-
mated literally means one in ten, and it
seems a high figure considering that the
Italians report their losses in deaths from
all causes, of whites and blacks, at
4379. Haile’s account differs materially
from that of Australia’s Arnold Wien-
holt, who says that said “subjects,” by
fighting the Emperor, did more to send
him packing than gas or bombs; and,
unlike Haile, Wienholt is a thoroughly
impartial witness. Besides, he stayed
longer.
Parkhill has solemnly assured the
chairman of Sydney’s County Council
that, if war breaks out, “special measures”
will be taken to safeguard Bunnerong
powerhouse, the bridge and other points
“Unaccustomed as I am to public speaking”...
in Sydney. “Trespassers Will Be Prose-
cuted” notices perhaps. Or maybe Park-
hill will address the invaders. That might
dissuade them from wanting to come in.
N.S.W. State members voted General
Rosenthal into the vacant Leg. Council
seat. Very tardy justice on the part of
the U.A.P.-U.C.P., which had kept
Rosenthal out of everything but the
army; and if Spooner, the U.A.P.
deputy-leader, had had his way, out he
would still be. Spooner’s candidate was
Griffith, an Albury man. Griffith (33)
disappeared after the third count. In
the end Rosenthal had 84 votes, Dick-
son 52.
Nash seems likely to become M.L.’s
Pooh Bah. Named Minister of Finance
and Minister of Customs when Cabinet
was formed, he has since been appointed
Minister of Marketing. And while remain-
ing three Ministers in one he is going
to England to negotiate with J. Bull about
“men, money and markets,” with the soft
pedal on the “men.”
Maoriland Labor has, of course, in-
troduced a Transport Act, and Coates
accuses it of having copied a feature of
Queensland’s transport-strangulation sys-
tem, since there are to be no legal appeals
from decisions of the Minister —Bob
Semple. Says Coates:
The clause has been taken from the
Queensland vet, but transport here is
100 p.c. better than it is in Queensland.
Still there are other features to which
there are no Queensland parallels. The
bill abolishes a Transport Co-ordination
Board, and, according to Semple, “we’re
not going to strangle private enterprise,
and never had any intention of doing so.”
The people must be provided with the
cheapest and speediest form of service for
the money they spend.
Cosgrove, the Tas. Minister of Agri-
culture, went to Maoriland recently, and
while there was reported to have said
that he was resigned to the lifting of
the Australian embargo on imports of
Maoriland potatoes. He telegraphed a
denial to his Premier, explaining that
what he said was that N.S.W. and
Queensland were willing and the Speck
unwilling. All the same, mutual conces-
sions will have to be made if trade is
to flow as freely from one side of the
Tasman to the other as it used to do
before parish-minded politicians took
charge of both countries.
For a long time Bridges, the Austra-
lian-born strike leader, has been the
most-talked-of public character along
Uncle Sam’s Pacific Slope, but he has
been joined on the front pages by a
Bacchanalian politician named Marion
A. Zioncheck, Federal member for
Seattle. Zioncheck is a Pole. One of
his performances was to threaten to blow
up a pub in which Mrs. Z., he said, was
hiding from him; another to leave a
case of “dead marines” at the White
House, with his compliments to the
President, as one Democrat to another.
After that he was “placed under mental
observation.” His pranks have shocked
the pious, but the leaders of a movement
which aims at the refusal of relief to
■ aliens and the deportation of those
illegally in the country are delighted.
The Sydney Government has re-
enacted its salaries-reduction measure,
and on the night the Assembly dealt with
it a band of civil servants “demonstrated
in Macquarie-street —in front of the Leg.
Council chamber, as it happened. An
idiotic business, and it enabled Spooner
to make the effective point that during
the depression not one civil servant was
retrenched, although for years hundreds
had little or nothing to do. When Hodge
Smith was president of the organised
public servants, he won sympathy for
their cause in quarters previously hostile,
partly because he belongs to the scien-
tific staff and thus represents a section
which is notoriously underpaid. It will
be a pity if leather-lunged militants gain
control.
S.A. finances are shaping for another
surplus. Westralia also expects to have
one. Both States are receiving such heaps
of easy money from Canberra that it
would be miraculous if they couldn t
show surpluses. Westralia, for example,
is getting a wheat bounty of Is. KHd. an
acre; fruit bounties and prospecting
grants ; contributions towards the interest
on its State debt and the sinking fund ; a
large part of the cost of main-road con-
struction and maintenance ; a contribution
towards the deficit; money for the reduc-
tion of farmers’ debts, and a special grant
of £BOO,OOO, which is almost £2 a head.
Some countries pay the entire cost of
government on £2 a head.
A brother of the massive Riordan,
M.H.R., is to be Labor candidate for
Bowen (N.Q.). A local alderman, he
beat 16 comrades in the party ballot,
concerning which, of course, “several
complaints have been lodged.” The
Country party is putting up John Smith,
a Proserpine canegrower, and there is
also to be a Douglas Credit man. Bowen
has been Labor for many years, but the
other side held it once, and the Govern-
ment’s transport-strangulation policy is
increasingly unpopular.
“Sanctions,” which have failed to do
everything “sanctionists” said they would
do, have now produced an adverse
balance of trade with Italy. For five
months of 1934-35, Australian exports
to Italy (£517,774 sterling) exceeded im-
ports from Italy (£218,466 sterling) by
£299,308 ; for five months of 1935-36 im-
ports from Italy (£114,511) exceeded
exports to Italy (£84,575) by £29,936.
Last year exports to Italy were valued
at £925,827 and imports from Italy at
£557,438. In 1930-31 the figures were
£3,495,342 and £658,308. That year the
Italians bought £1,483,000 worth of wool
and £1,707,596 worth of wheat. “Sanc-
tions” will make it enormously difficult
to regain either market.
According to Adelaide “Advertiser”;
- The next Assembly election will be
fought on a basis of 39 electorates (there
are 19 at present), each to have one repre-
sentative.
The “19 at present” are two- and three-
member electorates, there being 46 mem-
bers. The “Advertiser” goes on to issue
a warning:
Even if the' bill is passed this year, it
will not affect the life of the present Par-
liament, which still has two years to run.
It ought to be going to the country now,
but the Butler Government coolly added
two years to its life ; and nobody seems
to mind. Perhaps the feeling in S.A. is
that State Parliaments are of so little im-
portance that it is immaterial whether
they run for three years or five years.


THE MAN WHO LAUGHED LAST.


JW
UP TO A NOBBIER OF PETROL
on every single starf you make, by using
SHELL
m
ITS ENERGY C O N T ENT SAVES YOU MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
G. A. Scott, who becomes captain-
superintendent of the Garden Island
Naval Depot, saw plenty of service dur-
ing the war —off E. Africa, where he was
in the engagement with the Kdnigsberg
in the Rufiji River, and with the Grand
Fleet in command of a destroyer. After
the war, he held several staff jobs, mainly
in the Mediterranean flagships, but re-
turned to the Atlantic destroyer flotilla,
and in 1931 became a captain in com-
mand of H.M.S. Ceres. Two years after-
wards he went to the Admiralty as
Deputy Director of Naval Intelligence.
H. M. Russell, who is described as the
leader of the Queensland U.A.P., though
there isn’t much U.A.P. to lead, was
better known in his native Brisbane as
a businessman than as a politician till
A Limited Leader.
a few years ago. He founded his own
mercantile broking firm in 1901. His
first essay in public life was as an aider-
man of Hamilton, which is the Bellevue
Hill of Brisbane. He was Mayor in the
first two war years, and when Greater
Brisbane was established he became its
first vice-Mayor. He succeeded Andra
Petrie as M.L.A. for Toombul in 1926,
and retained the seat when it was re-
organised as Hamilton. He is a leading
light in the Brisbane Chamber of Com-
merce, of which he was elected president
in 1932.
Tateki Horinouchi, who is to succeed
Karamatsu Murai as Consul-General for
his country in Australia, has seen a lot of
the world. He is 47, a graduate of
Kyoto University, and has been second
secretary to the Japanese Embassy in
London, a regular attendant at Geneva
conferences and, latterly, first secretary to
the Peiping Legation.
Donald Wilson retires from the g.m.-
ship of Dennys Lascelles, the Melbourne
wool people, this month. After 55 years
in their employ and 16 years as working
head, Wilson is a man energetic enough
to belie all the theories that a man is
too old at 70. He will retain an advisory
connection with the firm.
For J. A. Leej D.C.M., Parliamentary
Under-Secretary to Maoriland’s Prime
Minister (a post which the Labor Gov-
ernment created), good things have come
at once. He has risen in politics at a
time when a literary career is opening
promisingly. A year or two ago his
Children of the Poor was sent into the
world with approving pats from Bernard
Shaw and Upton Sinclair. It became
something of a best-seller. Now comes
The Hunted, a tale of life in a boys’ re-
formatory. Jack Lee left an arm in
France.
Orlando Brain, formerly N. S. Wales
Assistant Railway Commissioner, is
dead. His was a mechanical dynasty.
His father was a British electrical engi-
neering pioneer, and the son, born in
Gloucestershire, spent his salad years
with the Crompton Electrical Co., which
he left 40 years ago to join the railway
service. A little while afterwards he took
charge of the electrical branch, and saw
most of Sydney’s electrical lines designed
before he was promoted to his final job.
He retired in 1932.
S.A. has lost a good detective in S.
J. Tresfrail, better known outside it as
one of the present King’s bodyguard ail
about Australia in 1920. Only 50 at
the end.
Had a 90th birthday in Adelaide,
Colonel Castine, still active. He had 18
years in Parliament, and was Minister
of Education in a long-ago Downer
Ministry. The colonel always has been a
prominent rifleshot.
Not often does a barrister score so
signally as did Clifton Penny, of Sydney,
when he got a retrial in the case of the
six Parramatta youths charged with rape
and sentenced to death, and secured a
not-guilty verdict at the second hearing.
A real limb of the law—being a six-
footer —Penny went from South Aus-
tralia to Perth, where he practised for
many years. Incidentally, he was a
representative oarsman in both States.
In Perth he was a disciple of Ned
Harney, one of the first batch of Senators,
whom Westralians still regard as the
greatest forensic orator they ever had.
Harney took “silk” in England as well
as in the West, and was a rising hope of
the Liberals in the House of Commons
till influenza carried him off.
Frith has been walking round the office
with furrowed brow all the week decid-
ing whether the head of Ellis Davies,
chief engineer to the
mining machinery
firm of Ru w o 11,
should be served up
on a spanner or a
fishing - rod. The
spanner won, be-
cause Davies is so
good a fisherman
that he scarcely
needs a rod, and,
anyway, some of the
fishes which he
catches are so for-
mida b 1 e that a
spanner is needed to
quell them. Like
most great mining
men, he was bom in
a spot where there
are no mines—Dar-
ling Downs (Q.) —
but he had a Mel-
bourne University
training and served
with noted com-
panies, including
Bewick Moreings.
on whose W.A. staff
he was in the days
when mining was a
much greater indus-
try than now. He
ELLIS DAVIES, mining engineer.
is just back from an extended trip to
Europe.
F, R. Lloyd is to end 50 years’ associa-
tion as manager of the Brisbane branch
of Edwards, Dunlop and Co., but will re-
tain his interest as director. He joined in
Sydney and went to Brisbane 40 years
ago as head. The Queensland Cancer
Trust and Boy Scouts had him as chair-
man.
A farewell to a celebrity:
In the late-Victorian and early-Edwardian
days Lord Darling, who died almost for-
gotten by the sensational press, was the recog-
nised wit of the British Bench. With his long,
round-headed figure presiding and a couple of
counsel of the measure of Curtis Bennett,
Charles Matthews or Marshall Hall down
below, the court atmosphere was a delight
,to those who love their heavy drama mixed
with the lightest of light comedy and school-
boy puns. The learned Judge, in his later
days, wrote a number of works which in-
cluded one called Meditations in the Tea
Room, and another Autumnal Leaves. He
had a keen, analytical mind. The last time
I saw him he was sitting as a House of Lords
appellate Judge.. In that role he looked as
unhappy as he used to look happy when there
was a popular murderer in the dock and a
couple of first-class counsel were fighting for
the villain’s body.
Roy Curthoys is back in Melbourne,
and is to be chief correspondent in Aus-
tralia for the “New York Times.” He
already was chief correspondent of the
London “Times.” Victorian-born, Cur-
thoys served his journalistic appren-
ticeship in Perth (W.A.) on the “Daily
News” and “West Australian.” He
came to Melbourne just after the war
to join the “Herald,” but another year
saw him on the “Argus,” the next on
his way to London to join the A.P.A.,
another made him assistant-editor of the
“Argus” and three more put him in the
editorial chair. A few months ago he
resigned and went abroad to see how
Uncle Sam was getting along with his
New Deal.
W.A. has lost one of its knights—
Charles Nathan, managing director of
Atkins, Ltd., Perth. A Maorilander,
Nathan first came into public life after
the war as chairman of the W.A. Indus-
trial Development Council. He was a
Commonwealth commissioner to Wem-
bley Exhibition in 1924, and to London
on settlement and finance in 1928, and
he had a year as vice-chairman of the
Development and Migration Commis-
sion. He was 66 when he died.
Black-and-white artist Lance Mattin-
son, back in Australia after 20 years, is
such a retiring fel-
low that he was
months in his home-
land before news of
his return began to
get around. Lance
is a Victorian —born
43 years ago at Sale,
whe r e his father
built the Sale canal
—but went to W.A.
as a youngster. In
1911 the present
editor of The Bul-
letin, then editing
the “Sunday Times,”
Perth, accepted his
first drawing for a
newspaper. Mattin-
son was one of a
large batch of Bul-
letin artists, includ-
ing Cecil Hartt, Ted
Colles, Fred Brown,
Hugh Maclean, G.
K. Townshend and
L. H. Booth, who
enlisted. He was
with the 14th Field
Ambulance. D i s-
charged in 1919, he
stayed on in Lon-
don. For 13 years
he was the “Daily
Herald’s” sporting cartoonist, and he
contributed to “Punch,” the “Passing
Show.” the “Humorist,” the “Tatler” and
the “Sketch.”
“Recorder”: I question the statement
that Alexander Kennedy was only 98
when he died (B. 22/4/’36). 1 remember
his telling me in 1919 that he was 84.
The old man knew my son, myself, my
father, my grandfather and my great-
grandfather.
E. H. Bowater, Vestey’s manager in
Australia, is a younger man than is
usually found in such a position, but he
has had a catholic experience of meat
production and salesmanship for his firm
Vestey’s Australian Manager.
in France, Germany, Spain, Austria
and other countries. He was born in the
English Midlands, is an excellent linguist,
a teetotaller, a stickler for physical fit-
ness and an excellent musician.
“Musafir’s” good-bye to a colleague:
It is just 40 years since John Foster Fraser
began his wanderings. A provincial journalist,
he made a trip on a Mediterranean cargo boat.
Then, the wanderlust getting hold of him,
he wheeled it through 17 countries on a
bicycle, crossed Asia as best he could {The
Real Siberia), and made enough out of the
two ventures to embark on a period of pot-
boiling, hurried journalistic descriptions of
countries which he visited. His literary inspira-
tions were evidently G. W. Steevens and Rud-
yard Kipling, flavored with the nostrums of
the U.S.A. travel-magazine writers, and he left
trails of indignation behind him, especially in
Australia. In later years he was mainly known
as a publicist and as a writer for the popular
Sunday press. During the war he was one of
Britain’s principal publicity men in Uncle
Sam’s country, and in 1929 Ramsay Mac-
Donald took him on his peace tour to Wash-
ington. He was a confirmed Scotsman, and
was chief of the London Scottish Clans Associ-
ation. He was knighted in 1917 for his war
work.
Harry Costello, of the well-known
western Queensland pioneer family, who is
one of Australia’s leading drovers, earned
a new record last week. Arriving on
the Bulloo, near Thargomindah (Q.), he
found the river in flood three-quarters of
a mile wide. In crossing, his 700 cattle
had to swim five times, once through a
raging channel 100 yards wide. One
man in the party was washed off his
horse. But the whole mob and 20 horses
got safely over.
Appellant in the dried-fruits case:
Frederick Alexander James, of James v.
the Commonwealth, may be said to have been
born “in fruit.” His father was a grower
and merchant at East Marden (S.A.). In 1902
father and son went to England and opened up
a large market for Australian oranges and
grapes. In 1914 F. A. James took up a lot of
land at Berri (S.A.), cleared, irrigated and
planted it at great expense. As the business
grew, his holdings extended, and in 1922 he
established one of the largest packing-sheds in
S. Aus.; by that time he was also controlling
his father’s extensive orchard and marketing
interests. Nowadays the James concern exports
Australian fruit to almost every part of the
world.


s
Si
5s
it i
iiacaiai
Hill
71
i\
li
I
m
When you taste this traditional
spirit of the Highlands you realise
that you are drinking whisky of
unusual merit. Easy to buy, easy
to open, and certainly the easiest
of all to drink.
Born 1820 —•
Still going Strong l
JMRME WMUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
AS OLD AND AS GOOD AS EVER.
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
J.W.47FP.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
25!) PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a Ja Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.43 p.m.). Dinner from 3.3« p.m. (Sunday, 3.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'l'iione, M-KiOI.
advt
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PL,CHI RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., fin. and gin.
blades, 8/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
! 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All port free
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths. |in. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
vears free of charge.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our' well-knov/n
PATENT “CURVILINEAR-
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHFALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars anil prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Campcrdown,
Sydney. X.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN.
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,884
1925.. 1.251.689 568,113 226,659 2,047 )
Superannuation Fund, £13,000 .. 1 441,8/0
Policies of Mutual Life Co. of N.Y. taken over.
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 )
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..f 631, oOj
1932.. 1.911.2431.225.812 367,822 5,169 ) ~,,
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..j 311,440
1933.. 284.6191.159.531 406,192 3,358 ) ...
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. ( /i4,i>3»
Trans, from Accident Dept., £lo,ooo]
Profit revaluation securities, £495,357 [ ,
1934.. 394.3201.264.671 468,116 3,703 ( •*.H>3,ib7
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
Trans, from Accident Dept., £12,000]
1935.. 728.0181.242.504 519,316 10,954 I
Staff bonus, £5185 . . . . ( ’ oJ
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
This society has had a remarkably im-
proved year. New business put on the
books in both departments was £2,511,708
greater than in the preceding 12 months
at £13,768,171. At the end of the term the
business in force (£69,023,352) was
£8,012,183 more than at the beginning.
Record surpluses of revenue were car-
ried forward toward paying future claims
and bonuses after satisfying all current
policy-holders’ demands and meeting ex-
penses.
In the previous year the basis of valu-
ation in the Ordinary department was
brought down to 3 p.c., largely as the
result of reappraising the book value of
Government securities, which at the 1934
balance still appeared in the books “well
below present market value.” During
the past term the basis of interest expec-
tation in the Industrial branch was also
strengthened to 3 p.c. This was made pos-
sible by asset revaluation in the 1934
term and by the retention of profits.
In the Ordinary section the revenue
surplus for the year, after allowing
£6185 set aside for staff purposes, was
£949,059, compared with £656,830 in the
preceding term, when the total addition
to funds was swollen by the inclusion of
£495,357 appreciation in security values
and £lO,OOO brought in from the Acci-
dent department (as against £12,000 dur-
ing the 1935 term). The Assurance fund
(£13,801,071) stepped up £928,149, and
the contingency fund (£384,361) was
£32,861 stronger.
O.D. claims were actually a trifle
lighter than in the previous year, mainly
because of a drop of £lOO,OOO in sur-
renders (£197,800)—a healthy sign. Leav-
ing taxes out of the reckoning, exes, took
22.8 p.c. of the net premiums, as against
25.1 p.c. and 24 p.c. in the two preceding
years. The improvement is good, but it
is from favorable mortality and interest,
etc., that the co. picks up most
of its profit for policy-holders. After
deducting income and other taxes, the
net return on the mean fund in the
O.D. was a shade over 4 p.c., as against
4.1 p.c. and 4 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. The margin between actual and
assumed rates was a little over 1 p.c., as
against half of 1 p.c. in 1933 —this by
virtue of the strengthened basis of
valuation.
The surplus available for distribution
in the Ordinary department was a record,
and up £77,561. In the I.D. the amount
was also favorable ; the 1934 figure was
swollen by assets revaluation:
Gross
surplus— 1930. 1932 ]gs4 lgs .
Ordinary . . £442,427 £328,179 £484,401 £561.962
\ nC^jtria * •' 100 >184 89,521 212,921 117 391
Accident .. 16,822 21,367 90,772 OO^l
Total . . £559,433 £439,067 £788,094 £775,974
In the O.D. £547,103 is to be distributed
among policy-holders by way of increased
bonuses, and £114,736 in the I.D. at
1934 rates. The board reports that free-
holds and securities have been written
down by over £115,000. The O.D. dis-
tribution was equal to 26 p.c. of the
year s increased net premiums, as against
26.5 p.c. in 1934.
In the Industrial section income rose
a further £52,227:
I X DUST l; IA I, DEPARTMENT.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ V
In-f, •' 43 ’ 902 77 ’ 718 7«.410
1900 .. 631,293 209,684 184,429 ]
Written off, £53,184.. ..1 2,143 093
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
1931 .. 592,230 213,173 169,159)
Written off, £21,995 . . .. [ 2,330.096
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..J
1932 .. 592,052 140,114 170.458 ]
Written off, £24,380 . . .. j- 2,586,296
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
1933 .. 642,329 171,479 178,767 ]
Written off, £556 .. .. J-2,870.923
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. |
Profit revaluation securities, £116,779 ]
1934 715 > 779 178,463 203,517 [ „ ....
Written oft, £438 .. \ 3,326,103
Superannuation Fund, £9OO •• J
1935 .. 768,006 178,868 215,378 ]
Written off, £431
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. ( 3.096,6/3
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ! J
includes contingency funds, etc.
Claims were only a shade heavier, while
exes, were up £11,861. The year’s surplus
revenue added to funds was £370,511, an
increase of £38,050.
Leaving taxes out of the reckoning,
exes, took 33.5 p.c. of the year’s net
Industrial premiums, a slight increase on
1934. The net interest return in this
branch was a shade under 4.2 p.c. on
mean funds, as against 4.2 p.c. and 3.8
p.c. in the two preceding years. There
is now a margin of 1.2 p.c. above the
rate assumed, as against 0.6 p.c. in 1934.
Funds are invested this way:
Public securities 1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
and debentures.. £8,844,479 52.2 £9,135,779 49.9
Mortgages . . . . 3,327,151 19.6 4,395,786 24.0
Freeholds . . . . 2,111,042 12.5 2,169,801. 11.9
Loans on policies.. 1,534,146 9.0 1,552,396 8.5
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 299,008 1.8 312,960 1.7
Cash and deposits.. 722,952 4.3 583,564 3.2
Other assets .. 102,147 .(! 146,479 .8
The growth in mortgages is due partly
to the revival in the property market
and partly to the popularity of the office’s
house-purchase assurance scheme. Free-
holds and liquid securities have been
written down to a value which, “from
every aspect, may be deemed perfectly
safe,” the board says.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925 .. 28,793 8 p.c. = 21,200 7,593 105,313
1926 . . 30,484 8 „ „ 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 .. 61,698 10 „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 . . 39,225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 . . 39,142 8 „ „ 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 .. 45,445 8 „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 .. 48,469 8 „ „ ’21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 . . 30,344 8 ~ .. 21,200 9,144 246.420
1933 . . 45,807 10 „ „ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 .. 35,921 10 „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 . . 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
Profits actually claimed in the accounts
over the past three years have been
£31,745 in 1933, £29,706 in 1934 and
£29,857 in 1935. The difference between
the 1933-34 figures and those in the
table is accounted for by the “Wild Cat’s”
inclusion of unexplained additions to re-
placement reserve (totalling £186,192 in
1934, and included with the general
lay-by herein). Last term £16,245 was
visibly whisked out of the account. The
year’s profit is therefore shown at the
bare amount claimed.
Recent developments justify the “Wild
Cal’s” attitude to replacement reserve,
which it regarded as provision in excess
of current depreciation. At the flotation
24 years ago, when the Young sugar and
pastoral interests at Bundaberg and Isis
(Q.) were taken over, the co. paid nothing
for goodwill, and the vendors asked
£40,000 less than the valuation figure for
fixed assets.
The co. now proposes to increase
nominal capital to £500.000 (from
£300,000), to issue £132,500 of bonus
scrip (one for two), and to hold 102,500
unissued shares to enable an “amalga-
mation with other allied interests,” to the
advantage of present operations.
The bonus scrip is to be provided out
of “existing reserves” ; which will mean
that the replacement account (now
£169,947) and/or inner strength in book
values will be tapped. The share-register
total will be lifted to £397,500 ; “this will
more nearly reflect the real value of the
co.’s working assets.”
Last term the growing season at Bun-
daberg was good ; Fairymead’s improved
plant handled a record crop without
trouble. For No. 1 pool sugar about
£l6 16s. (up ss. Id.) was received ; ex-
cess sugar, which increased, had to be
sold at world parity (£B, up Bs. 9d.). Dis-
closed profits showed little movement one
way or the other, and the 10 p.c. div.
left £3357 for reserves.
Additions to plant in 1934 resulted in
a jump of £39,099 in the book value of
fixed assets. Last term—-the drop in re-
placements reserve may partly explain
it —there was a contraction of £46,308 in
the item:
1923. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £265,000 £265,000 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities .. 58,793 28,640 62,149 59,034
Estates . . 176,063 226,908 230,051 224,014
Factories, etc. 112,585 162,111 196,239 180,668
Railways, etc. 41,084 54,993 54,096 55,832
Plant. . . . 40,627 43,355 67,181 40,746
Stores . . 5,643 17,815 23,363 21,513
Sugar stocks,
book debts, etc. 46,070 10,660 57,867 90,020
Total working assets stand in the books
at £501,259. Stores and livestock figure
at £21,513. Liquid assets (including
debtors and a handful of shares) at
£90,020 more than offset the £59,034
owing to outsiders. It is a snug position.
The future dividend policy on the en-
larged capital has not been announced.
Last year’s claimed earnings were 11.2
p.c. on capital as it then stood. But,
if additions to replacement reserve on the
scale of past years are considered, earn-
ing power looks much more robust. And
if present seasonal and marketing condi-
tions are maintained, an 8 p.c. div. all
round shouldn’t strain anything. Continu-
ance of the 10 p.c. may be possible. The
C.S.R. reports that consumption of sugar
in the Commonwealth last year was a
record, and that should mean a good
deal to millers and growers. At 485.,
cum rights, the £1 shares will yield 6.2
p.c. if. the 10 p.c. div. is maintained, or
5 p.c. if the rate falls to 8 p.c.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Di vi (lends-— N N ordinal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
onded, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 p.e.= 25,000 9,580155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 ~ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 400012 „ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 ~ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 ~ „ 20,000 9,020257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 ~ „ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept,’3l. .23,968 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 .. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20,000 • 261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 260,92.3
Mar.,’33. .25,678 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,078 262,601
Sept.,’33. .31,280 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 7,280 269,881
Mar.,’34. .30,867 4000 10 ~ ~.25,000 1,867 271,748
5ept.,’34..32,989 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 3,989 275,737
Mar.,’3s. .31,660 4000 10 ~ ~ 25,000 2,660 278,397
S'ept.,’.3s. .33,548 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 4,548 282,945
Mar.,’36. .37,593 4000 12 ~ ~ 30,000 .3,593 280,538
* Subject to goodwill, £118,0.74.
It was a very stable investment during
the troublesome half-dozen years from
1929. Nothing less than 8 p.c. was paid
on the ords. in that time. And, since
trading conditions have shown definite
improvement over the past two years or
so, the co. has been in the forefront
with increased returns to shareholders.
The div. was restored to 10 p.c. in
March, 1934, and, following presentation
of the latest half-yearly accounts, steps
up to 12 p.c.—the rate paid for a brief
spell during 1928-29.
The co. distributes and deals in news-
papers, periodicals, books, printers’
requisites, fancy-goods, etc., and con-
ducts an advertising service agency. Busi-
ness is spread throughout Australia and
Maoriland. There are 500,000 fully-paid
ords. on the register and 100,000 8 p.c.
prefs., but the stock is well held on the
sharemarket. It is a particularly good
type to hold for income purposes.
Taking the figures for the 12 months
to the end of March, gross earnings fell
from £162,104 (their highest point) in
1929 to £89,100 in 1932. Last year they
rose £7817 (to £128,032). Exes. (£56,891,
including taxation and depreciation) were
only £1364 heavier. Thus net profit,
allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
was £6492 better at £71,141, and equal
to 12.6 p.c. on ord. capital (allowing for
the pref. div.), as against 11.3, 10.8,
8.2, 7.6, 8.8, 13.3 and 18.9 p.c. back to
1929. In the first half of the term. ord.
shareholders were paid at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a., and 12 p.c. in the latter half.
Finances are in fine shape:
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’3s. Mar.,’36.
Paid capital . . . . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . . . 69,000
Sundry creditors . . 127,050 125,421 105,682
Bank overdraft . . 79,880
Total liabilities .. £275,930 £125,421 £105,682
Freeholds .. .. £199,230 £213,309 £211,824
Leaseholds . . . . 25,515 18,719 18,139
Plant, fixtures, etc. . . 46,595 31,782 29,699
Stock 332,896 186,621 158,772
Book debts . . . . 353,249 235,486 241,069
Other assets . . . . 18,560 250,691 272,200
Tangible assets .. £960,045 £936,608 £931,703
Stock values appear to be a source of
strength (they dropped £27,849, to
£158,772, last term); freeholds (£211,824)
could also be stretched in the books
without breaking anything. As fixed
and trading assets have been written
down, a fine wad of cash and invest-
ments (£264,415 last balance day) has
been built up. The outside debt amounts
to only £105,682.
The £1 ords. were steady during the
past 12 months, mostly around 475. Fol-
lowing the increased div., they shot up to
515., at which figure the yield is 4.7 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. basis. The prefs. are en-
titled to a fixed 8 p.c. cumulative div.,
but enjoy priority as to dividend only.
There is little dealing in this scrip.
Eliminating the £118,074 at which good-
will figures in the accounts, the net tan-
gible backing for all shares works out
at 255. 7d.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
, Writ— Re- '
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
1926 . . 89,526 10 p.c. = 57,937 26,150 29,876
1927 . . 90,515 10 ~ „ 61,375 27,700 31,316
1928 . . 102,446 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35.326
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 10 p.c.
1929 , . 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 . . 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
8 p.c.
1931 .. 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 ) .. „ A 7
Provident fund, £lOOO .. ) 41,66/
All reserves written off assets, £41,667..
10 p.c.
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
8 p.c.
1933 .. 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 )
Provident fund, £lOOO .. j ‘ °
1934 .. 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 )
Provident fund, £lOOO . . ) U
1935 .. 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 .. 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
It is still known by some as the Balmain
Electric Light Co., but it now holds
franchises covering Newtown, Leich-
hardt, Petersham and some of the nearer
western suburbs. There is £937,500 of
investors’ money in the 5h0w—166,667
7 p.c. cum. prefs. paid to 17s. 6d. each,
and 833,333 ords., of which one-tenth are
paid to 10s. The co. isn’t subject to the
N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity Act.
The div. dropped from 10 p.c. in 1930
to 8 p.c. in 1931, and except for a special
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
SAPFOR MILLING COMPANY LIMITED
1934.
Incorporated under the “Companies Act
Sapfor Milling Company, Limited, has been formed for the purpose
of milling the timber of SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LIMITED.
DIRECTORS:
GEORGE McEWIN, Victoria Square, Adelaide, Solicitor,
GEORGE GLEN LEGOE, Victoria Avenue, Unley Park, Pastorahst.
ERNEST HARRY CORNISH, J.P., 1.F.0., A.1.A.5.A., Pier Street,
Glenelg, Retired Civil Servant.
CHARLES VALENTINE TIGHE WELLS, F.C.A. (Aust.),
206 Childers Street, North Adelaide, Chartered Accountant
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ADVISER:
R. PARSONS, M.E.
TIMBER AND FORESTRY ADVISER:
E. JULIUS, Late Conservator of Forests, S.A.
BANKERS:
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
SOLICITORS:
BAKER, McEWIN, LIGERTWOOD & MILLHOUSE, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
AUDITORS:
NEILL, NEILL & BURGESS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
T. & G. Buildings, Adelaide.
GENERAL MANAGER AND SECRETARY:
CHARLES H. HOMES.
The requirements of Sections 49 and 50 of the “Companies Act” 1934
relating to a prospectus are not fully complied with in this advertisement,
which is an abridgement of a full prospectus.
The Prospectus, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of
Companies, is dated the 4th day of June, 1936.
This advertisement is not to be regarded as an invitation to subscribe for
shares, and applications for shares will be received only on one of the
forms of application referred to and endorsed upon a full prospectus.
Each of the abovenamed George McEwin and George Glen Legoe, together
with the three other subscribers, in compliance with the Companies Act
1934, subscribed the Memorandum of Association of the Company for
one share each. Neither of the abovenamed Ernest Harry Cornish and
Charles Valentine Tighe Wells subscribed the Memorandum of Association
of the Company.
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised
by the issue of shares offered for subscription by the prospectus is
£BOOO, and the Company may go to allotment when 8000 shares have
been applied for and the application fee of 2/- per share paid thereon.
It is the intention of the Directors that priority of allotment will be given
to registered holders of bonds and covenants in South Australian Perpetual
Forests, Limited, who apply for shares on or before the 4th July, 1936, and
that, subject thereto, priority of allotment will be given to registered holders
of shares in that Company who apply for shares on or before that date.
Copies of the prospectus and form of application can be obtained from the
Secretary, Tattersall’s Building (fourth floor), Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MODERN (NON-LICENSED)
HOTELS LIMITED
Bookings, for Centenary Celebrations
nr HE Directors announce that good progress is being made
* with plans for the erection of “The Governor Game” on the
land purchased in Hunter Street.
The demolition of the old buildings will proceed within a
few weeks, and the finalisation of building plans begin.
Plans are now being made to provide a private
bathroom to every one of the 400 bedrooms. Following
expert advice and by careful planning, it has been found possible
to make these improvements without an increase in tariff.
The intention to permit guests to pay for room and meals
separately, if they so desire, in the most up-to-date Hotel in
Australia will be appreciated by those wishing for comfort at
moderate prices such as obtains at “The Victoria” in Melbourne
and “The Canberra” in Brisbane.
An Advisory Committee of influential Victorian Share-
holders is recommending the shares to people in that State.
There is still an opportunity for those desiring a safe invest-
ment to become shareholders in a well recommended security.
The total Shareholders to date number nearly 600.
People desirous of making preliminary reservations for
accommodation during the Centenary Celebrations of 1938 may
register now.
To the Directors,
Modern (Non-Licensed) Hotels, Ltd.,
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a copy of your illustrated Prospectus, with particulars
of the proposed Hotel to be erected in Hunter Street.
NAME
ADDRESS
ĸ
For Public Works of
the Commonwealth
and the States,
and for other purposes.
LOAM
A Safe and Sound Investment
for amounts of £lO and upwards.
Applications may be lodged with
any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or member of
any recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions may be paid in full
at the time of application, or by
instalments up to Ist October,
1936.
The Loan is Issued Under the
Authority of the Australian Loan
Council, and is backed by all the
Governments.
AMOUNT ASKED FOR
£9,000,000
INTEREST
i 3 '
3H%
ISSUE PRICE:
£9B-10-0
ANNUAL YIELD:
k


'JjM
m
JohnHcine
SYDNEY
e~ Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
Ply. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
I*4r>4(4
RiiiircruHjjj
The remarkably keen
prices of every class
of commodity offered
at the Fair not only
afford greater profit
margins, but ensure
an increased annual
turnover.
Plan for a prosperous
fi n a n c i a 1 year.
Choose your new
season’s requirements
from the displays of
more than 8000
exhibitors from 25
countries.
COMMENCES AUGUST 30
ķ
Comprising General
Samples, Building,
Household and Industrial
Equipment Fair.
All information, including
Harter Arrangements, from: —
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com-
missioner in Australia for
the Leipzig Trade Fair,
L. MESSEY, Technical
Adviser, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
No. 3127 P, Sydney.
’Phone; 84006.
O N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard
’and Co., 360 Post Office
Place, G.P.O. Box 1658,
Melbourne.
H. O. ITTER SHAGEN, S’henton
Park, West Australia.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House.
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! kum
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. — Advt.
Invincible”
sxn ce
1906.
INVINCIBLE
MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES.
Petrol— Kerosene—Diesel.
„ 18 Sizes: 3 to 100 h.p.
»’ Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,
53 Nth. George St„ Sydney.
distribution of 2 p.c. in 1932 it hasn’t
lifted since. The sharemarket pays
355. 3d. for the £1 ords., obtaining a
yield of a shade over 4.5 p.c. The prefs.
are not often dealt in.
About the time (1931) that consump-
tion of electricity reached its lowest
point, all visible reserves, including
the allowance for depreciation (£310,242
at April 30, 1931), were used to
write down book values, mainly fixed
assets. The number of consumers has
steadily increased, and the Government
Statistician’s Sydney index of electricity
consumption showed a rise of 8 p.c. over
the 1929-31 average in 1935 ; for the first
four months of 1936 it was up by more
than 10 p.c.
Despite the co.’s policy of passing on
benefits to consumers with improvement
in costs (another cut operated the day
after the accounts closed), its gross
revenue last term was a record:
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 .. 1,203 £20,561 £9,163
1920 .. 7,596 80,196 31,156
1926 .. 19,310 187,719 83,693
1929 .. 21,928 213,373 117,553
1930 .. 26,239 270,005 126,120
1932 .. 27,176 211,169 101,010
1933 .. 28,211 218,673 106,121
1931 . . 29,661 253,891 107,513
1935 .. 31,186 271,616 119.388
1936 . . 33,271 288,113 135,119
The rise of £16,767 in income was accom-
panied by a growth of £16,031 in work-
ing costs, partly due to larger coal con-
sumption and the extra cost of transport-
ing it during the shipping strike. Repairs,
renewals, maintenance, etc. (£38,653), ran
into £7295 more. Depreciation provision
(£60,420, shown as written off in the in-
troductory table) was £199 less, but
£lOOO more (£19,000 altogether) was set
aside for taxation. The carry-forward,
representing total reserves as shown by
the accounts, amounted to £853,
Expenditure on the undertaking,
mainly in keeping plant up to the mark,
still goes on:
1930. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. £875,000 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors .. 126,096 83,913 72,881 106,7-72
Fixed assets.. 1,312,605 1,017,339 984,101 1,014,544
Stocks, etc. . . 21,072 13,357 12,583 21,501
Book debts .. 11,289 9,192 9,765 7,578
Cash, etc. .. 6,182 31,961 52,808 51,792
The year’s outlay here was £30,443,
financed by leaning on creditors (up
£33,891). When the books closed the
debt exceeded more or less liquids by
£25,901, as against a liquid surplus of
£2275 12 months ago.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
This co.’s accounts were reviewed in
last week’s issue. Further information
has since come to hand from the co.
touching on the capital arrangement of
the bondholders’ co., N.Z. Forest Pro-
ducts, Ltd.
Because of the various bond issues,
representing acres planted with trees of
different ages, the £3O shares issued for
each bond were divided into classes and
sub-classes, with varying rights, accord-
ing to date of the bonds. A circular
issued by N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
states that
it is intended that a further application
will be made to the commission to combine
the various classes in order to facilitate the
realisation of the whole of the co.’s forests
as a composite undertaking. To effect this,
provision has been made in the Order for
Incorporation made by the commission to
enable the issue of further shares to repre-
sent the additional value of each year’s
growth, or to make such other adjustment
as between issues as may be found neces-
sary.
Apropos of this, N.Z.P.F.’s managing
director, W. Fraser, on April 30 stated
at Auckland:
Provision has been made in the Order
for Incorporation whereby the ascertained
difference [between values of various
bonds] can be paid to those entitled to
receive it; and whether this payment is
made in the form of an issue of redeem-
able preference shares or in the form of
an earlier distribution of proceeds does
not, in my opinion, materially affect the
situation.
Personally, I favor the latter; but the
question is one that will be determined by
the directors, with the approval of the
Bondholders’ Incorporation Commission,
after further consideration.
The position is somewhat more involved
than in the case of Whakatane Paper
Mills (formerly Timberlands), where
bondholders’ plantations were of a com-
paratively uniform age.
N.Z.P.F. reports that, although there
is provision for the issue of preference
shares by the Forest Products Co. to
finance milling and marketing, “a defi-
nite decision regarding the way in which
this capital will be raised has not yet
been made.”
The great majority of bondholders
(totalling 75,000, 40,000 of them in the
Commonwealth) in N.Z.P.F. are now
shareholders in N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd. The rest are being converted in
stages. When conversion is complete
there will be, in effect, only one bond-
holder in N.Z.P.F., and that the Forest
Products Co.
Though Zinc Corp.’s rate of produc-
tion this year is little, if anything, above
that of previous years, recoveries of lead,
zinc and silver are increasing. Assay
values are also improving, especially as
regards zinc. Overseas the price of the
metals is rather weaker.
* * * *
Triton (Cue, W.A.) put through 6522
tons for 18990 z. in May—an average of
“FIXED TRUSTS”—
SEE PAGE 38.
-s.Bdwt,, the lowest yield for some time.
The shares weakened to 13s. The poorer
crushing, however, should be only pass-
ing. At February 29 there was 157,000
tons measured up, assaying B.3dwt. And
extraction by the plant is improving.
* * * ♦
Lancefield (Beria, W.A.) in May
crushed 10,056 tons (up 1039 tons) for a
gross return of £28,425. The designed
capacity of the plant was for the first
time slightly exceeded. The yield per ton
was 565. sd. (Aust.), compared with 51s,
in April. Working profit mounted £4330
(to £16,704). Development continues to
show good average values. The share-
market is considerably stronger.
* * * *
Peak Hill, north of Murchison (W.A.),
is again, after the lapse of some years,
becoming prominent as a gold-producing
field. The local inspector of mines says
that prospectors and operators of small
shows there keep the State battery run-
ning continuously. Attempts are being
made to resurrect the old Peak Hill
mine, which at one time yielded a lot of
gold. It was on this property that the
London chairman, Darlington Simpson,
banqueted a State Governor and a few
politicians, and had the table laid with
rough cast gold plates and golden goblets.
Golden toothpicks and spittoons were also
provided, and the toilet set in the Gov-
ernor’s bedroom was gilded. Simpson
and every one of his guests have since
passed on to the Golden Shore —at least,
it is hoped they struck it.
* * * *
Hill 50 Co. (W.A.) is getting ready to
give its treatment plant a trial run. The
directors reckon that they can turn the
mine to profitable account, with the help
of the State Government’s £5OOO guar-
antee, but in case they can’t they have
shareholders’ approval to borrow a
further £5OO0 —if it can be done,
* * * *
South Kalgurli is installing new grind-
ing machinery at a cost of from £12,000
to £15,000 in order to secure a closer
gold extraction. The mill on this mine
is one of the oldest on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, and has been one of the
most serviceable. Co.’s estimate of ore
reserves, blocked out and probable at the
end of March, shows little alteration com-
pared with the previous half-yearly one
of 250,000 tons averaging 6dwt.
Swan Bitter, near' Wiluna/had an esti-
mated surplus for three weeks’ treatment
last month of £B5O. No. 2 winze is down
90ft., where the ore-body has been ex-
posed over 60in. Values are said to be
an ounce in a quartz body, improving at
depth. The cyanide plant is to be com-
pleted within the next few weeks, and
will have a capacity of 1500 tons
monthly.
* * * *
North Golden Mile, which has a mine
adjoining the Hannans North Extended
at Kalgoorlie (worked by the Broken
Hill Pty.), will drill to between 500 ft. and
600 ft. This to test the east and west
lodes, as well as prove the main body,
which has developed well to 300 ft. The
co. is optimistic, as the Prop, has suc-
cessfully worked its show to 960 ft.
* * * *
Inspector of Mines Rockett, in his
annual report on the Wiluna field, states
that the new smelting plant on the big
mine will absorb 170 tons of lead ore
monthly from Northampton, as well as
130 tons of lime and 130 tons of coke.
The new method will permit the monthly
treatment of 10,000 to 15,000 tons of
antimonial ore of relatively high gold
value from the Moonlight leases.
* * * *
Ernest Williams, who has grown grey
but not inactive in the service of the
goldmining industry of Westralia and
other countries, voluntarily retires from
the general management of Gt. Boulder
Proprietary shortly. Williams, a Welsh-
man, was managing partner for B.M.
and Co. in the early Coolgardie
days, and had H. C. Hoover on his staff
of engineers. Later he practised as a
consulting engineer in London; later
still he controlled mines in Mexico, Man-
churia, S. Africa and other countries.
Then he returned to Westralia to manage
Boulder Perseverance. He resigned two
or three years ago, and took charge of
the Gt, Boulder early in 1935. He intends
to put a brass plate up in Perth.
* * * *
An interesting development on the
Bendigo field last week was the unearth-
ing by New Chum Syncline of a reef
showing “nicely mineralised” stone in its
main shaft at 443 ft. It is believed to be
the cap of a saddle-reef (for which Ben-
digo was famed in the past) and the con-
tinuation of a formation encountered in
the Central Nell Gwynne, which it ad-
joins on the north side. In the latter
mine recurring reefs have been disclosed
at intervals at shallow depths, but they
have been of low gold content. A better
idea of the new find may be got
when the footwall is reached. New
Chum was formed in 1932 ; there are
50,000 10s, shares out, paid to 7s. 9d.
They jumped from 2s. to 7s. last week.
* * * *
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) pays
its second div. (Is. per 10s. share) on
July 16. The market is looking on the
bright side, and bid 395. for the scrip
at the week-end. A large body of low-
grade ore has been proved to exist on
the 820 ft. and 870 ft. levels; recent crush-
ings have disclosed an as yet unascer-
tained quantity of highly-payable ore.
Morning Star (G.M.A.) Mines, N.L.,
Wood’s Point (Vic.) treated 447 tons in
the month to June 3 for 6920 z. bullion,
containing about 5440 z, fine gold. It is
the largest producer in the State, Plant
is to be reorganised at a cost of £lB,OOO,
and production stepped up.
* * - $ *
Wattle Gully (Vic.), now putting up its
own battery, crushed 74 tons for 82oz.
13dwt. last week. There are 60,000 10s.
shares out. It is a well-regarded show—
the scrip moved up to 235. at the week-
end —which hasn’t been impetuous about
getting on to the div. list.
* * * *
Gold and Tin Development, which has
been nibbling at properties round Eldo-
rado and Avoca (Vic.) and Storey’s Creek
(Tas.) since formation' in March, 1935,
has acquired an interest in Aus. Gold
Development’s option over New Pyrenees
Alluvials’ Avoca holding, estimated to
contain 25,000,000 c.y. of ground with
a recoverable value of 3gr. If the prop-
erly is up to the mark a £150,000 operat-
ing co. (capital in 300,000 10s. shares)
will be formed, 50,000 f.-ps. going to New
Pyrenees as purchase consideration, and
10.000 to A.G.D. and Gold and Tin, in
proportion to their capitals. The three
cos. among them will also have priority
in subscribing for 235,000 shares for
cash. A.G.D. and Gold and Tin will bear
cost of testing the property, of which
dredging depth is put at 60ft.
* * * *
Nevada (U.S.A.) claims to have a suc-
cessful Itinerant Prospectors’ School.
Instructors, who are men of engi-
neering training and practical mining
experience, are furnished with trucks
and equipment to serve all the min-
ing districts of the State. So far,
1000 men have been put through a
course. The Federal Government pays
half the instructors’ salaries, the State
supplies the trucks, equipment and a
quarter of the instruction cost, while
local school districts provide the class-
rooms and pay a quarter of the instruc-
tion cost. Students spar up from ss. to
255. for the course. The system of train-
ing might be modified for adoption in
Australia.
* * * *
In the year to December 31, Larut
Tin, the F.M.S. producer, dredged
3.090.000 c.y. at a cost of 2.2 d. per
yard for a profit of £32,351, as against
£24,243 in the previous twelvemonth.
Dividends, absorbed £15,000, and £10,688
was earmarked for depreciation, leaving
a carry-forward of £30,588. Excluding
135 acres acquired in 1934, the co.’s
dredging ground totals over 35,000,000
c.y., averaging 0.61 b. to 11b. t.o.
* * * *
On the advice of A. Grey, Bolwarrah
and Gordon’s Amalgamated, previously
interested at Gordon (Vic.), has aban-
doned its option over the New Ida H,
Laverton (W.A.), in favor of one over
the sands of the old Ida H. During the
past three years present holders of the
sands have treated 47,000 tons of oxi-
dised deposit for “satisfactory” returns,
and better results are expected from new
treatment methods. A 1500-ton-a-month
plant is on the spot. Cash in hand is
sufficient to get production under way,
* * * *
To test auriferous areas selected by
geologist A. Gilfillan, of London, Borneo
Gold Explorations has been formed with
a nominal capital of £30,000 in £lO
shares, of which 2250 contribs., called
to £3, have been issued. On the board
are Wallace H. Smith, A. Gilfillan, H.
T. Sanderson and L. B. Tomlins.
* * * *
In addition to the £75,000 cash con-
sideration and 40,000 f.-p. 10s. shares
allotted to the vendor co., Cuthbert’s
Misima contracted to pay £17,000 to
promoter Hambridge, who met all flota-
tion expenses. Mr. Hambridge is also
entitled to £lO,OOO cash when profits ex-
ceed £150,000, with an option, subject to
shareholders’ approval, over 20,000 ord.
shares at par at the same time. Co. was
formed last October with a nominal capi-
tal of £200,000 in 10s. shares, of which
260.000 contribs., now fully paid, were
taken by the public. A first div. of 6d.
and a 5 p.c. bonus to the white staff were
declared on May 18. The scrip is around
10s. 6d.


I r
HI
* j
i*I
. « &H3SSS
mm
y rs. /v
8*161
T,^£0
GfGAfc
_ Af *ETT£ S
-O
V*
OUNTRY LIFE
FINE CIGARETTES
•3-6
....Fits your
pocket both
ways
size & price
Still available, of
course, is the familiar
square TIM of 14 -1/-
4
21
6
&
Ml ND


ABORIGINALITIES
“Billy See”: Mick the Sponger was
prowling around the rear of Antonio’s
hash foundry when his attention was
arrested by the sight of Pietro the cook
rolling out a slab of dough. Pietro gave
the dough a flip, causing it to take a
brief aerial flight, turn over and return
to the board with a flop. But quick as
he was the flies were quicker: every
time the dough rose they rushed in to
feast. Then, when the dough flopped,
the slower ones mulled their get-away.
Mick watched with fascinated horror.
This was the place where he got an occa-
sional handout. “Blime, I ain’t finicky,”
he muttered, “but there’s a limit some-
where.” Filled with righteous indignation
he forthwith sought out the proprietor.
Antonio listened sympathetically. “By de
cripe, eff he spoil dat dough I gif heem de
shoot.” Together they sought the rear
window and peeped in on Pietro’s labors.
The flies’ suicide club was still losing
members. “Whatcha think of ther cow?”
Mick whispered. Antonio’s frown cleared
to a smile. “Ett all ri’. He maka da
currant bun and a few fly no matter. I
thought perhap he catcha da cockroach. I
draw da line at da cockroach.”
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Talk to a far-north
Queenslander about the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, and he’ll say: “Oh, yairs—Burke’s
Flamin’ Ocean, you mean! ” And Burke’s
Flamin’ Ocean it indeed is. Once round
Cape York to the west and south in
Burke’s Wandana, and you enter a new
world. Much of what charting there is
was done by Flinders, some by a survey
ship rent with squabbles and distracted
by soft memories of Darwin’s bar-ladies.
For the rest it is largely “local know-
ledge,” which may range from a break
in a mangrove clump to a white shirt
waved from a beach to indicate the con-
dition of an entrance and a medley of
notes pencilled on blank spaces on the
chart. Around its shores may be met
some of the finest, pluckiest people in the
whole North —and that is saying a whole
lot —but they don’t see themselves that
way. “Bit quiet at times,” they may
admit, “but there’s always Burke’s boat
to fetch up. anything you want. Comes
along every month or so, regular.”
* * * *
“Bufo”: The shoals of mullet which
up to a few years ago were common
in the upper reaches of the Brisbane
River have disappeared—some observers
fear, for ever. They comprise three
species, of which the jumper mullet
(Mugil argenteus) is the best known.
Slow-growing fish, all three require at
least 10 years to attain full growth. In
autumn and early winter they go down
stream to spawn on the beaches of More-
ton Bay. The decrease is variously attri-
buted to the weir at the 17 Mile Rocks,
the increase of motor-boats and the
illegal use of explosives; probably the
last is the principal cause. Some 25
years ago a disease killed immense
numbers in a short time, but five years
later they were again numerous.
“Groper”: The place to look for fish
suitable for canning is west of the Speck
“You didn't lock us up when other Warships came here”
“No, but this is an Australian Warship!”
and along the Bight. Warm-water fish,
found in s abunda ° ce north £rom shark
„ on lhe wes , and a , the Barrier
Ree£ on , he eas( is ml f ch and the
bon owj ’, he hi her min B era i ’ con .
ten , of tro | cal waters ® bei too hard
the flesh soft Cold-wmer fish is
necessary, as was proved by the onee-suc-
cessful c ” nnerfcs hich op ' ratcd at Man .
durah, 50 miles south of Perth. W.A. is
unfort ’ unate in this respect: years ago a „
ex ; teade which proved
that from c y e Natura i iste (sou t h) to
Geraldto ” thc seabed was of uch
a “ ature as to .. be ‘"capable of supporting
ll£e ; The area is now prac-
tically fished out mere y from supplymg
? 1 po P u ' a,lon o£ 'l ,le „ °2,
100 ’ do ° £ °r past 30 years ' Alon « “f
south coast there are however possibiln
ties of extensive trawling grounds, though
even there the continental shelf may
slope away rapidly. That no islands exist
j n that direction indicates that 100 miles
out the water is very deep—too deep for
schooling fish.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: If “Quartza” will forward
an affidavit that he has been an inmate
of a rabbit burrow and has personally
witnessed the other long-eared inhabitants
bashing their craniums against the roof
to warn their mates of the advent of the
Big Bad Wolf, I’ll take back all I laughed
on reading his par. (B. 13/5/’36). Bunny’s
cranium is too sensitive and vulnerable,
and, besides, his dislike of headaches
and baldness is too well known, so as a
result he does his signalling with other
and tougher extremities. If “Quartza”
keeps his eyes and ears skinned he will
find that most of bunny’s Morse code is
tapped out in the open where there’s no
ceiling, and that to avoid getting bindi-i’s
on the brain our underground mutton
thumps his warning on the ground with
his hindlegs.
❖ * $
“Another”: “Liar” (B. 6/5/’36) grossly
misjudges the veracity of the kangaroo-
shooter who used salty fat on his .303
bullets. My dad had a muzzle-loading
shotgun which he couldn’t use for pigeon-
shooting in the Richmond River (N.S.W.)
scrubs in hot weather. Reason? He’d
have had to stand so far away from the
feeding tree to prevent blowing the birds
to shreds that by the time he scrambled
through several miles of lawyer vines
to pick them up blowflies would have
got them.
❖ * ❖ *
“Talahua”: “A.M.McL.” (B. 29/4/’36)
scratches the surface of a whole heap
of native psychology. The shock which
occurs in and complicates most cases of
severe accident —and major surgical
operations—in a white man is missing,
or present in only a minor degree, in a
native. With this factor alone in his favor
the latter will often recover where the
European goes under ; and if, in addition,
he has faith in his treatment —whether
it be administered by an F.R.C.S. or by
some old crone who anoints him with
coconut oil, and gives him strange and
evil-smelling brews to drink—his chances
of survival are still better. At that, it’s
probably not so much a matter of
psychology or philosophy as it is of
the individual nervous make-up, for the
more highly organised the nervous sys-
tern the greater is the amount of shock
experienced.
* * * *
“Del Norte”: The biggest, heaviest
and mildest-mannered of sea creatures
that have their habitat in the waters of the
Barrier Reef is the great ’ray. It will not
take a bait, but that fact doesn’t daunt
the breed of “sportsman” who considers
everything that swims does so for his
pleasure. The idea is to sneak upon the
basking fish in a launch, harpoon it and
enjoy the thrill of being towed for miles
at breakneck speed until, exhausted, the
wretched thing is hauled alongside and
photographed with its triumphant
captors. The sport may be new to
Zane Grey. If it is, this writer hopes
he may find space for a description in
his new book, together with an angler’s
views on those who practise it.
* * * *
“Bufo”: The monolithic remains of a
prehistoric culture recently discovered in
the Trobriands are particularly interest-
ing in that they are the nearest to Aus-
tralia of any yet found in the Pacific,
Some of the stones are 17ft. high and
nearly 7ft. wide, with an estimated
weight of over five tons. They are
arranged in much the same way as those
at Stonehenge. No trace of legend or
memory connected with them exists
among the local natives. Anthropologists
ascribe them to immigrants of long ago
from the West, whose descendants may
possibly survive to-day among the chief
class. This type of monolith differs from
the megalithic relics which have their
prototype in the great submerged quays
and foundations on Ponape, just as these
do from the giant statues on Easter
Island, which are akin to the stone carv-
ings of Central America.
*
“Jindivick”: A sharp thunderstorm
broke a long dry spell, and as we shel-
tered on the verandah speculation was
rife concerning the amount of moisture
that would be deposited. After five
minutes’ steady pelting, water commenced
to flow over from the funnel of the rain-
gauge. “It’s raining all right,” said the
boss, “but I didn’t reckon we’d had three
inches.” As soon as the rain eased off a
bit we investigated that rain-gauge. The
explanation was simple. A lady wasp with
an urge for motherhood had selected our
gauge in which to carry out the good
work, and had accordingly sealed the
spout of the funnel with her mud nest.
* * * *
“Western”: Touching those wells on
Dirk Hartog Island (B. 29/4/’36) which
give fresh and salt water, according to
the height of the tide, there is another
on an island of the Abrolhos group,
much farther out from the Westralian
coast, that tricked Pel-
sart’s shipwrecked
Dutchmen in 1629.
Noting that it rose and
fell with the tide, and
also the small area of
the island upon which
it was situated, they
decided that' it was
salt, none even ventur-
ing to sample it. It
was only after Webbe
Hayes and his party
had wasted days in
fruitless search for
some other supply, and
the amiable Jerome
Cornelius had taken
advantage of their ab-
sence to bring off his
historically infamous
massacre, that some-
one had a brainwave
and took a sip. That
well is still there, and
still rises and falls with
the tide. Fresh water
always floats on salt, and if
not stirred is as loath to
mingle with it On an
island as large as £)irk Hartog
there is probably a perma-
nent fresh-water table, which
the surrounding salt ocean
holds in almost as effectively
as a concrete wall.
* * *
“Bogaduck”: A friend bet
me that his dachshund would
catch more rabbits than my
fox-terrier, and in my ignor-
ance I took him on. The
dachy’s stumpy legs looked
as if he would find a smart
run impossible, but when a
rabbit popped up under his
nose he would double his long
back, caterpillar fashion, and overtake
bunny in the first few yards. He could
also dart under bracken and through low
brush where dogs with longer legs lose
speed by leaping over obstacles ; upon
catching a rabbit he would crush the
spine with a single slow but powerful
bite. Presently the foxy tore after a big
hare. The hare failed to see the brown
dachy waiting for it; they collided in the
air, then gave an imitation of an explod-
ing jumping-jack. The battle ended with
a triumphant dachshund dragging towards
its master the carcass of a hare twice its
size. In addition to the hare, that dachs-
hund caught eleven rabbits to my foxy’s
eight.
* * * *
“N, Gineer”; “Huitre” (B. 22/4/’36)
regards the statement of zoologist
Roughley as to the price of the humble
English oyster as absurd. He is not
well informed. During the war, shells
and depth-charges exploding in the
neighborhood of Whitstable considerably
damaged the oyster beds. To cover their
losses the local lads cornered the market
to such good purpose that 30s. per dozen
and upwards was obtained for prime
Whitstables. “Huitre” should also know
that Dutch, Portuguese and other foreign
oysters are brought to maturity in Eng-
lish beds. These humble shellfish are
sold at a fraction of the price that the
“natives” command.
THE WAGON.
There’s hitchin’ o’ spiders an’ couplin’ o’ chains
(With a “Stand still, Toby an’ Governor
Grey! ”);
There’s liftin’ o’ saddles an’ bucklin’ o’ reins,
A flick of a whip an’ they’re tuggin’ away.
But they won’t be tossin’ their tails so high
When the sun comes out an’ the brown
flanks foam,
For the town track’s soft an’ the dams are dry,
An’ the sidin’s seventeen miles from home!
Tjiey’re steady at last! . Then it’s down from
the load
To walk the edge off the mornin’ air;
An’ it’s paddin’ along on the powdered road,
With a jaunty step an’ a truce to care.
A blow on the flank an’ a touch o’ the rein
(With a “Hi, there, Toby an’ Governor
Grey!”)—
An’ it’s loadin’ the old pipe up again
For the first an’ sweetest smoke o’ the day!
The township roofs are dancin’ with heat
(With a “Yirrup, Toby and Governor
Grey! ”),
An’ the horses are blowin’ an’ all but beat—
A hundred an’ ten in the shade, they say!
It’s unloadin’, unbucklin’ an’ turnin’ ’em free,
A dip in the trough an’ a bundle o’ hay;
Then it’s round to O’Shaunessy’s bar for me
(With a “So long, Toby an’ Governor
Grey!”).
Oh, O’Shaunessy’s shanty’s a heavenly place
When the palate’s coated with brick-red
dust,
An’ a man must swaller to
save his face,
An’ moisten his raw-
burned hide or bust.
But the horses are rested
an’ watered an’ fed
(So it’s “Come on, Toby
an’ Governor Grey! ”);
The super.’s there in the
railway shed
For the loadin’ back on
the homeward way.
The track leads over the sun-
drenched plain,
An’ the horses are jaded
an’ blown with heat;
Their heads are low as they
take the strain
An’ plough the dust with
their ploddin’ feet.
The sun sinks down in the
western skies
On a cloudy cushion o’
blood-dyed wool ;
But the homestead’s over
the sandy rise.
So it’s “Up, me jolly old
nags, an’ pull!”
The super.’s stacked an’ the
rails are down
Under the stars of a twi-
light sky;
An’ a wayworn bay an’ a
salt-flecked brown
Shiver the ground as they
thunder by.
An’ the night air thrills with anew song sung
As they greet the corn with a tremulous
neigh;
An’ there in the van, with their wild heels
flung,
Go stout old Toby an’ Governor Grey!
W.A.
JOHN K. EWERS.


“Chelonian”: Reading an account in
a Sydney paper of an intelligent tortoise
which gallops to its owner from any part
of the garden when called, I am reminded
of my experiences when shipwrecked on
the Galapagos in company with a simple
half-caste Chilean. I found the local tor-
toises highly intelligent, and soon had a
number trained for racing. They quickly
picked up the fine points, and I did well
in bets with my companion, who seemed
little better than half-witted, the wagers
being in pigeons and lizards. But I was
fated to find that I had underrated the
intelligence of the tortoises and the half-
caste. A heavy run of outs made me
suspicious, and I soon found that I was
being readied, the Chilean having trained
the tortoises to run byes or let the wraps
out as he dictated. As he carried the
only tomahawk on the island I could not
expostulate. The cup of bitterness filled
when I had to take the knock, and the
Spiggoty I had warmed in my bosom
warned me off all courses. I must draw a
veil over subsequent events until my
rescue by a battleship of the Ecuadorean
Navy.
* * * *
“A.R.”: Waterfalls in Centralia are
rare, but the staff of Kidman and Co.’s
Huckatta station, 170 miles north of
Alice Springs, recently woke to find one
flowing beautifully almost into the bushes
at the bottom of the garden. Six inches
of rain in three hours upon a range
which runs through the property caused
the cataract.
“ ’Ghan Driver”: Wild turkeys have
reappeared in the Alice Springs (C.A.)
district after an absence of many years
Recently noticed several of these
birds while running stone trains
from the Alice Springs quarries
to the scene of the Finke rail-
way mishap. Essentially ground-
frequenting and ground-nesting,
they have suffered heavily from
the onslaught of the fox; but
Reynard has been blamed for
much of the dirty work of the
man with the gun.
“Ex-Peer”: I was both shocked and
grieved to hear that my old colleagues
in the House of Lords were considering
ways and means of exterminating rabbits,
which are playing havoc with crops and
pastures in many counties. There was a
heated debate on the matter until one
noble lord silenced objectors by pointing
out that, unless drastic measures were
taken, England would soon be in the
same position as Australia. In the cir-
cumstances, one must concur with the
decision, but it saddens me to think that
the landed gentry of to-day submit so
tamely to the destruction of their game
preserves. I can imagine what my great
grandfather, the fifteenth earl, would
have said if such a thing had been sug-
gested in his day. But one becomes
inbred to such things in this iconoclastic
age. It would not surprise me to hear
of the Quoin hunting foxes with shot-
guns and poison-baits.
“... .The escaped convict Was last seen heading for the scrub country.
An early arrest is expected, owing to the awful privations he will
suffer .”
“Puffinus”: The currawong is a canni-
bal. Leach describes his diet as “berries,
fruit and insects,” and I’ve seen him tuck-
ing into all of them at times. But recently
I saw one deliberately grab a young bird
which had tumbled out of the parental
home, fly off with it to a convenient
branch, dismember it alive and eat the
quivering fragments. A neighbor tells
me he had young chicks taken by curra-
wongs when living in New England. But
that was in the days when Mr. Lang
ruled, and anything could happen in
N.S.W. then.
“Koiba”: Two new miners who are
pegging a claim up the Bitoi way, New
Guinea, don’t see why they shouldn’t
have some of the comforts of civilisation.
There is no ’drome near their holding*
but ’planes pass overhead. Their
meat-bag is just thrown down, probably
with the idea that a good thump will
make it more tender; but every week
two dozen eggs are wafted down by a
“My, this IS a big cabin. Makes a girl feel quite lonely!”
home-made parachute. Just a yard of
lap-lap (calico), but effective; mostly
the henfruit arrives whole.
* * *
“L.W.”: Not 20 miles back of Innis-
fail (N.Q.), while following a dubious
track through the dense jungle, I was
amazed to meet a party of naked abos.
carrying some excellent fish on a lawyer-
vine. They explained how they had got it.
One carried a steel spear about 18in.
long, tapering slightly to a sharp point,
with an eye on the other end and a stout
loop of string through it —very like a
slim marline-spike. A blacksmith had
made it for him. He also displayed a
pair of very modern smoked goggles
which, he said, they wore when diving.
One, thus equipped, would dive, swim
under water among the fish, and spear
one on the steel spike before emerging.
They had “parked” their clothes, they
said, near the road at the edge of the
scrub where they left their car!
A- ❖ ♦ *
“Bed O’M.”: Dad arrived on the scene
just as the newchum was drown'ing the
thirteenth. “Rats,” explained Choom.
“Caught the beggars sucking the young
sow.” “Me prize Berkshire’s first litter!”
moaned Dad.
* * * *
“Culex”: Possibly the non-stinging
mosquitoes noticed by “Vleppo” (B.
20 /5 / ’36) are a male community living
in celibacy like the monks of Athos.
Male mosquitoes, according to the
authorities, subsist entirely on vegetable
juices and leave the dirty work of blood-
sucking and malaria-carrying to the
missus. Where I am living in N.S.W. I
have been encountering a mosquito new
to me. It is a small brute with a trans-
parent yellow body, and when crushed
exudes the most appalling smell, the
juices staining yellow anything white like
a handkerchief. Any Aboliar identify-
ing this chap will have my grateful
thanks.
* ❖ * *
“Lid”: Next time “Beesknees” sees a
trapdoor-spider slam his front door in
his face (B. 20/5/’36) let him gently
prise open the door with a small twig.
If the jemmy is employed too roughly
he will find the spider has skied the towel
and is crouched at the bottom of his den.
If the burglary is done gjntly he will see
the householder with a couple of legs
hooked into the silk lining of the door
and the others clinging to the walls of the
burrow.
* * * *
“Penetro”: No doubt about the pene-
trative power of the diminutive long-
rifle h.v. .22 bullet. At' 300 yards,
using a B.S.A. match rifle, I put 17 bullets
clean through thick pine. Every
shot, with one exception, made a neat
hole ; the exception ricochetted through
sideways, making a keyhole.
* * * -t
“Queenie”: In my opinion a bit of a
dry pinch in W.Q. does more to spread
the English bee which has gone wild
than a dozen good
seasons. Daring the
good years, when the
holes in the rivers are
full all the time,
they just swarm up
and down the trees in
the channels. . It is
when those pools go
dry that the bees have
to be up and doing—*
and bees are hot stuff
on water. On the
Barcoo country during
a dry spell, I counted
seven swarms in one
day. Each of those
armies on the wing
was making out from
the Alice, all going to
settlements they had
selected on bore drains. I felled one
tree on the river that had a hive in it;
there seemed to be millions of bees
there. But those fellows were taking
stuff from the hive instead of putting
honey into it —the empty combs proved
that. I surmised the bees had left the
tree on that dry waterhole for one which
a scout had selected on a bore stream
several miles distant.
* *
“Taurus”: A dingo possesses cunning
out of the ordinary, but he cannot think
of more than one thing at a time. I wit-
nessed one stalking a kangaroo, and in
his concentration on the job he failed to
notice that I was playing the same game
on him. Not once did he force the
marsupial into a competition of speed ;
he just loped along and kept him on the
move ; whenever the ’roo stopped to feed
the dog moved him on ; by this method
he gradually weakened his prey. A 32-40
bullet stopped the contest and I gained a
dingo scalp. The kangaroo was so
grateful that he followed me back to the
camp, and has insisted on acting as a
decoy for dingoes ever since.
=i= * * *
“Barangkali”: No doubt about the
strength of the whale when he really
tries (B. 6/ 5 / ’36). Two curious monsters
that investigated the lagoon of a coral
atoll in the Indian Ocean finally became
trapped by the receding tide in a large
coral-enclosed pool. Sensing an easy kill,
the Malays armed themselves with har-
poons and rope. All they managed to do
was to sting the big visitors into a frenzy ;
the resulting turmoil in the enclosed space
eventually sorted itself out into half a
dozen smashed “dukongs” and twenty
damaged Malays. Both whales escaped
by smashing a path through the surface
coral —and it wasn’t soft coral either,
some of the niggerheads broken clean
off weighing many tons.
* =1: * *
“Neil”: I assisted at the landing of
a big grey nurse at Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.), and on its being opened a
battered kerosene tin, two fowls, a cricket
bat, some wire-netting and a porpoise in
three sections came to light. The pieces
of porpoise placed together measured Bft.
6in. This seems to explode the fallacy of
sharks being inherently afraid of the
dolphins.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: When the Torres Strait
Binghi came out to make purchases from
our trading schooner and shrewdly pro-
duced a pocket ready-reckoner, as an
evident outcome of his missionary con-
tacts, our skipper was’equal to the occa-
sion. He tolerantly pointed out to
Binghi that the edition (1904) was hope-
lessly out of date, and assisted the crest-
fallen nig. to make his purchases accord-
ing to the latest fluctuations in the science
of mathematics.
# * *
“R.A.C.”: Animals constantly grazing
over soursop often die from oxalic
poisoning, for owing to the gradual de-
velopment of symptoms their trouble is
overlooked in a mob. Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College (S.A.) obtained consider-
able success by drenching with a strong
solution of calcium carbonate in water,
thus speedily neutralising the oxalate in
the stomach. In the early spring when
the soursop is flowering, the Adelaide
plains between Gawler and the city are
a sight worth seeing.
THE WINDS.
The East Wind is a fairy who brings rare gifts
to me,
For she renews the dreams of youth when
coming from the sea.
She whispers tales of high romance. She croons
of magic lands;
Of reef-girt isles where wavelets dance along
the golden sands;
Of pirate hulls, with plunder full, deep-hid the
ages through ...
And all of it is wonderful —and most of it
untrue.
The South Wind is a siren, soft-calling from
the hills.
’Neath autumn skies unclouded I hear her
dulcet trills.
She sings of mountain places, of gorges purple-
deep,
Where down the sheer cliff faces the falling
waters leap;
Of towering peak and boulder, with grassy
plains below —
But behind the South Wind’s shoulder lurks her
handmaiden the Snow.
The West Wind is a vixen. A raw-tongued jade
is site,
Who shrieks her wrath across the plains and
lashes ruthlessly
The moaning trees, the paddocks bare, the
huddled, shivering sheep;
Who drives the wild things to their lair in
scrub and burrow deep.
Like tattered raiment streaming the white scud
clouds speed by,
When ’cross the mountains screaming the West
Wind rides the sky.
The North Wind is a mother. She ushers in
the spring.
She brings the warm sap-raising rain to force
the blossoming
Of tree and shrub. She tells the birds ’tis
nesting-time again.
Her warm breath brings the flocks and herds
back to the fresh-grassed plain.
She weaves no spells. She works no ill. She
lures not, nor beguiles,
But faithfully does she fulfil the promise of
her smiles.
The East Wind is a fairy, the West Wind is a
shrew,
The South Wind a deceiver, but the North
Wind always true.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


PERMANENT PASTURES
The best results can only be
assured by using
THE BEST
P. 8.9 FERTILIZER
Because it ensures not only a quick
start to the grass, but also a suffi-
ciency of Plant Food throughout the
whole year, being a mixture of
quick-acting (Superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia) and slow-
acting (Blood and Bone) Manures.
Write for Pamphlets, Post Free.
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
Fertilizer Experts,
52 King Street, Sydney.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
rut FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
ft 1
I t
\
mPkpl npt
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTR4LU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. • •
Reserve Fund .. .. • •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
The Indispensable Classer.
“Murrawong”: If Japan carries out
the threat to curtail wool purchases in
the Australian market, the result may
be most noticeable in future prices for
unclassed and badly-classed wools.
Lower stocks abroad and last season’s
lighter clip caused a steady demand for
any sort of wool. It proved a record year
for repackers who specialise in small,
mixed or unclassed lots, and no doubt
some woolgrowers will be emboldened
by last year’s results to market this year’s
clip “any old how.”
In spite of sectional droughts, the com-
ing clip will be heavier than last year’s.
Until recently, prospects for next season’s
opening sales were entirely in growers’
favor, but, lacking the support of Japan,
our second-largest buyer, the future js
still in doubt.
Repackers will take no risks on a
doubtful market, so, although well-
classed clips may not be affected, the out-
look. is most unfavorable for badly-
classed or all-in clips.
Further complaints are. also to hand
on the bad classing of smaller clips,
and it would be more to the country’s
advantage to insist on a standard of pre-
paration of wool for market than to levy
the grazier for the purpose of advertising
secondary wool products.
Depot shearing sheds for closer-settled
districts or where .flocks are small would
help.
The saving in every direction would
be big. Where it would take three scratch
shearers three weeks to barber a small'
flock, a 12-stand depot shed would do
the job in three or four days. The owner
would have to drive his sheep farther,
but he would be saved the worry of
arranging his own shearing.
Woolbrokers who complain about
handling small clips, which are practically
all sold in star lots, could eliminate that
trouble by organising or at least support-
ing depot sheds with a general pool for
all wool shorn.
Instead of each man’s few bales being
sold under his own brand, all the wool
would be classed to certain types and
sold under one brand, each owner being
credited with the weight of his wool
going into each particular type.
This pooling system has been carried
out for many years by city firms with
marked success.
The owner of any small flock whose
neighbor has a big shed and employs a
good classer should try to have his sheep
shorn there in preference to doing them
himself, but if that is not possible he
should secure a classer for the job. In
a small shed, the classer usually performs
a shed-hand’s work besides his own, and
the rate of pay for the two jobs is much
lower than he would receive for classing
alone in a bigger shed, so the complaint
of expense in hiring a classer is unjusti-
fied.
Marking the Drop.
“Rom Ney”: When the first lambs
average six weeks old, begin marking.
Lambs a week or two younger should be
done a proportionate time later. Don’t
mark in cold, wet or uncertain weather.
Do the job between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.
Bring mothers and lambs in overnight.
Draft early to allow them to settle down
before beginning. Catch without fuss
and without knocking the animals about.
Castrate, tail-dock and earmark rapidly
in that order. Put proved antiseptic on
purse and tail, and see that lambs are
stood on their feet, not thrown or
bundled to the ground.
Avoid old or dirty yards. Keep pliers
and knife clean, and stand them in anti-
septic between use.
Allow the marked to stand in sheltered
yard until bleeding ceases ; but they must
rejoin their mothers at least two hours
before sundown. Don’t let the flock
bolt from the yard. Hold them steady
till the ewes have had time to discover
“ What're y' plantin', George?"
"Seeds.”
“What sort?”
“Sort y' plant.”
the lost. The ewes and marked iambs
should remain undisturbed for some
days.
Dock the tail about third joint—long
tails give no immunity from fly. Don’t
earmark too deeply or the ear will droop
and not be identifiable in the race. Fac-
ing same way as sheep, use the right
ear of ewe and left ear of wether or ram
for registered marks ; the opposite ears
for age marks.
Using Skeleton Weed.
“Nabawa”: W. Giles, of Highbury,
Temora (N.S.W.), has proved that he can
control skeleton weed and make a profit
out of it. His rotation on infested pad-
docks is wheat, two years’ heavy grazing,
fallow and wheat again.
This checks seeding of the weed and
root-spread, and gives him a turn-off of
lambs, wool and good wheat crops.
Last year Baringa, on a four-year rota-
tional paddock, yielded nearly 13 bags
to the acre—excellent in a 20in. rain-
fall area.
Another crop, on a two-year rotation
in an adjoining paddock, yielded only
eight bags per acre, skeleton weed having
pulled it down.
The 5000-acre farm carries 3500
merinos, 100 cattle and 60 horses—l2oo
acres are cropped. There were 1500
lambs from 1800 ewes last season.
Clover is sown in the infested culti-
vation paddocks, and gives nine months’
good feed. Giles feeds the stock from
oaten and wheaten hay reserves during
the off months, June to August.
p . p.
rregnant Lwes.
“Granova”: Even in the best of seasons
ewes heavy in lamb call for careful man-
agement. It is just as dangerous to
have them overfat as it is to have them
poor and weak.
If ewes are very fat, see that they get
plenty of exercise. If necessary, drive
them a mile a day. Heavy crossbreds
are particularly susceptible to toxaemia
of pregnancy in good seasons. Short,
fresh green feed is much better for the
ewes than a paddock that has been
“saved” and contains grass that is rank
and mature.
When handfeeding is necessary, avoid
giving a bulk of dry feed. A ration of
silage and grain gives the best results.
A sudden loss of condition in the ewes
will cause the lambs to die, and the ewes
will die within 24 hours. I recently lost
2 p.c. of a flock after running them on
fallow for a few days.
The ewes should be handled as little
as possible, and should never be driven
quickly through a narrow gate. If a
ewe has to be caught for treatment, cut
her out with a small bunch and take
them into a corner, instead of handling
the whole mob.
Contagious Abortion Control.
“Corriedale”: A well-concealed cause
of the spread of c. abortion in cattle is
the fact that man himself is an uncon-
scious carrier. This explains why c.
abortion keeps cropping up in herds that
have had all positive agglutin reactors
wiped out.
The bacillus Brucella abortus com-
monly causes undulant fever in man, but
this may never crop up in infected cases.
Invasion of a human, as of the cow,
seems always complete and permanent.
Fortunately, apart from the rare chance
of fever, no other complications arise.
The continual drinking of milk from
infected cows is known to be a cause of
infection of man. By far the most pro-
lific source, however, is the intimate con-
tact of hands with infected parts when
men act as midwives to laboring cows in
trouble.
The incidence of B. abortus infection
among vets, is very high because of this.
No risk occurs with an affected man
handling clean stock. The great trouble
is defective home sewage and careless
personal habits, which also, be it known,
cause the spread of beef measles.
One obscure source of cattle infection
comes from horses. A suppurating fistula
more often than
not exudes B. abor-
tus organisms,
which are either
carried by flies or
else eaten off the
grass by cattle.
Horses with
broken fistulse
should never be
run near females,
or the bull at any
rate.
Milk Secretion.
“Silky Bag”: “Hortus”
(B. 27/5/’36) is not right
in saying that about half the
cow’s milk is made as she
stands in the bails.
U.S.A. workers have
shown that, if enough of the
initial milk-forming sub-
stances were present in the
bloodstream to allow half
the yield to be made during
milking, the concentration
of those substances would
be so great that most of the
other functions of the blood
would be affected and death
would result.
It is now accepted that
milk secretion is as continu-
ous as the local pressure in
the udder will allow it to be.
A normal good producer,
unrelieved, will reach the
end of her tether in 14 or 16 secretion
hours —purely through pressure.
The actual formation of milk depends
on osmosis, or molecular sieving. The
milk formers, in solution in the blood-
stream, are smaller-sized molecules than
those of the blood itself. When the
blood reaches the particular type of capil-
lary found only in the udder the formers
leak into the intercellular spaces.
At this stage they do not resemble
milk or any of its components —fat,
caseinogen or lactose.
After traversing the intercellular spaces,
they wander into another special type of
cell which lines the tiny udder pockets.
Immediately , they enter these special
cells, chemical action forms the milk.
None can leak back through the sieve
holes by which the formers entered. So
the special cell grows enormously, and
finally bursts. Its wall where it opens
on to the alveolar hollow space is thinner
than elsewhere,-and this breaks, allowing
milk to enter the teat-duct system with
which the alveoli communicate.
This cycle of swelling and rupture is
repeated many times daily—and is only
prevented by back-pressure. This ac-
counts for the bigger records put up on


Since
ron bought
your last
radio
things
have
been
happening!
V
kU
PRICES RANGE FROM
FIFTEEN GUINEAS TO
FORTY-TWO GUINEAS.
T“IOUR years of radio progress have been crowded into 12 months!
A Scientists and engineers working quietly in the associate laboratories of
A.G.E. overseas and locally have made astounding discoveries. They have
discovered an entirely new type of dial... uncannily accurate... designed
like a slide rule ... all the stations grouped in States and Countries ... and
FLOODLIT! They have discovered a new method of tuning control ... an
automatic vernier which, together with the magic of Cathode Ray tuning,
makes it impossible not to tune with scientific accuracy. They have evolved
a new Sensitivity Booster which gives music and speech added glory and
realism. A.G.E. has adopted ALL these discoveries, combined them with
the very latest Radiotron Metal Valves, housed them in cabinets of surpass-
ing beauty, and made possible an entirely new series of "BANDMASTER"
RADIO RECEIVERS ... a series which renders other radio obsolete. See and
HEAR the new "Bandmaster" receivers at your nearest A.G.E. dealer's
showroom then ASK FOR A HOME DEMONSTRATION.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
SYDNEY - - - MELBOURNE - - - BRISBANE - - - ADELAIDE - * - HOBART
W.A. AGENT : ATKINS ( W.A.), LTD , 894 HA Y STREET, PERTH.
m
MICRO • SENSITIVE RADIO
A.G E. ARE AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR RAD/OTRON VALVES AND COLUMBIA BATTERIES .


A SH WILL APP^
that
WOMEN
COMFORT AND
SMARTNESS
ASSURED.
PRICES:
BLACK KID . . 35/
BROWN KID . . 35/
Whether you buy shoes for comfort or good
looks, or both, this fashionable Derby Tie
Shoe is sure to please.
The design is a little ahead of the ordinary,
and features the soft Kid upper, with Suede
inserts.
It is comfortable to wear, too the kind of
comfort Abbeys like to build into their shoes
• —comfort which immediately puts you at
ease, confident that the shoes you wear are
the best that your money can buy.
Stocks are kept in full and half sizes.
WRITE NOW FOR OUR
LATEST CATALOGUE-
POST FREE.
ABBEY SHOES
31G GEORGE STREET,
324 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,
Sydney:
A REGULAR INCOME
FROM
FIXED DEPOSITS
FIXED DEPOSITS have a special appeal lor
conservative investors. The yield is
uniform, regular and certain.
The capital sum is returned intact at the
end of a specified period ... or may be
renewed for a further term.
Fixed Deposit rates paid by the Rural Bank
are as follows:
2 per cent per annum for 3 months.
2l> " “ " " " ® «
2f a a a a a a
3 a n n a a ••
Interest on Fixed Deposits is paid half-
yearly. The Bank ctlso opens Cheque
accounts at all branches.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY
Sydney Branch: 350 GEORGE ST (opp. Wynyard St.),
j Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President) H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
June Issue Now on Sale.
Special
FORESTRY COMPANY REVIEWS
Developments and Prospects
INDUSTRIAL SHARES
Their Earnings and the Sharemarket
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
three-times-a-day milking, as udder pres-
sure is always less when this process is
carried out.
Butter Exports.
Australia’s butter exports to June 30
will be nearly 25,000 tons less than last
season, when they were 118,084 tons.
And the shortage is reflected in London
prices, which, for salted Kangaroo, have
recently been up to 100 s. per hundred-
weight. To May 23, shipments were
only 94,000 tons, against 107,000 tons
last year. .
The main fallings-off have been in
N.S.W., where there has been a 50 p.c,
drop, and in Queensland, where the ex-
port has been only 29,000 tons, against
42,616 tons last year.
Export is now limited to 800 tons a
week. Actually, there is little hope of
•any surplus over home consumption re-
quirements until mid-August. Queens-
land alone is turning out export butter.
Dry weather and heat have been the
causes which are likely to lower the
butter cheque nearly £2,000,000 short of
last year’s.
Bloat Prevention.
“Silky Bag”: There has been a good
deal of bloat this winter among N.S.W.
herds, particularly in those districts
where the autumn rains arrived late. The
causes are well established.
In the paunch, the swelling of which
causes the trouble, there is no digestive
juice secretion.
The saliva swallowed with the food
certainly contains enzymes, but these
operate only on simple carbohydrates
and are not important.
So far as we know, the main functions
of the paunch are (1) to act as a reser-
voir for food, so that cudding becomes
possible when the animal is lying down,
and (2) to partially digest fibre and some
of the more complex carbohydrates.
As these constitute about 65 p.c. of
the dry matter of an ideal ration, the
second function is very important, and
it is made possible by the bacteria and
protozoa in the paunch, specially adapted
for the work.
Away from the paunch, fibre is not
digested at all.
Bloat itself is caused by organisms
working along the wrong track. If a
ration does not contain enough fibre,
which they actually prefer, they must
apply themselves to the simpler sugars
and carbohydrates which abound in
young, quick growth.
There are also some complex simul-
taneous protein reactions, and these,
which occur when young lucerne or
clover is fed, may be more violent than
on grass.
The result of the misplaced activity of
the organisms, however, in each case is
the formation of gas which causes pain
and death.
To prevent bloat, simply increase the
fibre ration with substances like oaten
hay or straw chaff.
Medicinal cures may relieve the
trouble, but so long as the cause remains
the risk is great. Fibre must always be
a fixed proportion of the ration —about
55 p.c.
Sowing Wheat.
“Granova”: There are patchy germina-
tions everywhere in the N.S.W. 'wheat belt
this year, despite the fact that resown
crops are seldom a success.
Once a crop is up it will stand months
of dry weather; so, if there is enough
moisture on the seedbed, sow, even early
in the season.
Stop when conditions become doubt-
ful, and wait for more rain or until the
seed-bed is dry.
If rain is delayed, wait as long as pos-
sible before sowing. Men handling a
large area usually cannot afford to wait
very long, but the risk of sowing being
delayed by wet weather until it is too
late is slight compared with the risk of a
poor germination caused by moisture on
the seedbed or light showers.
Always leave part of the area for sow-
ing after rain. After a dry spell the soil
is porous and does not bog easily, and
the crop grows rapidly.
More Jerusalem Artichokes.
“Pappamosca”: I can never under-
stand why a wider use is not made of
the hardy Jerusalem artichoke as a pig
feed. It has a better protein content than
potatoes —2.5 against 2.1 —double the fat
and only a slightly lower carbohydrate
figure.
It will grow on anything, even stiff,
clayey soils, though it prefers mellow
loams and plenty of drainage. Good
cultivation is essential to establish it, but
once it has a good start it is one of the
easiest crops to maintain.
Plough the land deeply this month, run
a harrow over it, and then replough and
fertilise in September or a little earlier.
On poor, sandy soils, 3cwt. super., plus
farm manure cultivated in along the fur-
rows (3ft. apart), is best. On light loam
rotted farm manure alone will do. Allow
2ft. between each tuber or set, at which
rate a ton should plant five acres.
Keep a good tilth —a harrowing or two
at the outset and later a monthly culti-
vation between rows should be given.
In April next year, the flowers should
begin to drop and the tops of the plants
to wither, and the crop is then ready.
Then let the pigs in to have their fill,
but don’t let them have the whole crop.
Leave some tubers in the ground, plough
and keep the surface free from weeds,
and the 1937 crop will be provided for
without further sowing—and so on for
a long time, provided fertility is kept up.
Pigs love to root for tubers. It gives
them exercise, and young pigs make
weight very quickly on them, especially
if they have been reduced in condition.
Artichokes are also splendid for breed-
ing sows.
But before the pigs get into the field
bag a few hundredweight for household
use. There is no better keeping or more
palatable vegetable.
Soil Drift.
“Johnhop”; 1. B. Cramsie (B. 13/5/’36)
advocates an inquiry into the problem
of soil drift. Such an investigation has
been made by C.S.I.R. officer Ratcliffe.
Most of his work was carried out in
northern S.A.—typical erosion country.
He concludes that overstocking is the
main reason for the devastation —plus an
abnormally long period of drought.
Destruction of bluebush and saltbush
and the scattering of dead plants by
stock allow the wind free play with the
unbound surface soil and a drift is
started.
Rabbits are a minor factor in this
region, as they cannot eat “bush”
because of its high salt content.
Regeneration of original plant species
seems to be out of the question, and the
only solution is the careful conservation
of herbage by rotational feeding and
strict avoidance of overstocking.
Hints for the Farm.
“Zedo”: A light rail round the inside
of the sty, high enough to allow small
piglets to move under it, saves litters
being crushed by rolling sows.
“X.T.”: An old stirrup iron, spiked to
a post a few inches from the top in an
eye loop, so that it will swing up and
down, makes a good and, lasting gate-
fastener, which keeps its shape far better
than wire.
“Rastus”: Where there is any boring
of heavy metal to be done, keep a small
bar magnet. Nothing like it to extract
filings from the bottom of a drill hole in
a piece which it is difficult to turn,
“Limo”: Occasionally paint the inner
surfaces of a concrete tank with linseed
oil. This will prevent small-crack leak-
ages. Often such sources of waste are
hard to find.
“Ratua”; Use a steel punch to start
nails into hardwood. Drive the punch
point in Jin. Push the nail through damp
soap and begin hammering slowly. If
the wood is unusually hard, soap the hole
as well as the nail.
“Verco”: The N.S.W. State Botanist
reports that he has discovered the Para-
guay burr near Glen Innes, and says
that if it is not quickly eradicated
it is likely to become as serious
a menace as Bathurst burr. Not quite.
Bathurst burr has a good start
over its rivals. Paraguay is one
of those vegetable excrescences which
even a test in Gaelic is unlikely to sup-
press. It costs S. America hundreds of
thousands a year, and when sheep lie
down in it their wool deteriorates in
value several per cent. The discoverer
proposes to “ask that the attention of
sheep-farmers be directed to it through
the ‘Agricultural Gazette.’ ” A better way
would be to direct attention to the fact
that a heavy fine will be incurred for
allowing even a square yard of it to exist.
Controllers of Government lands and
local authorities should be under the
same penalties as ordinary individuals. If
it had been possible to deal this way with
Noogoora and Bathurst, Australia would
be a good deal richer.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip ani Young Streets, Sydney
H
-
II
« ill Kiiiifii
liiMlllJwii -
illii
■
ill
i
II
111
h
: :- V
i ■ £'
Pt
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
36363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘ln spite of the alleged growth of our
civilisation, we still have murderers in our
midst,’ says a lecturer.”
Yes, they still hang around.
•b *b *b 4*
“He was knocked unconscious whilst count-
ing the night’s returns.” — “Sun.”
Taking the count whilst counting the
take.
•b *b *b *b
“Plaintiff said that she had twice to send
for the police to get Brown out of her house.
He was a distant relation.” — “Sun.”
A cousin twice removed, presumably.
*l* 4* -b *b
“Dickens Translated Into Turkish.”
— Cable.
Sketches by Bosphorus.
•b *b 4- *b
“ ‘What is a faux pas ?’ asks a corre-
spondent.”
Keeping bees in a nudist colony.
4. A
Hence the Accident.
Fast car.
Slow pedestrian.
Loose nut.
Tight driver.
Split tyre.
Split skirt.
Lady driver.
Lady beside driver.
Shortfellow.
“Done it at last—holed in one!"
If any foreign country ever thinks of
landing an army in Australia it might
just as well realise beforehand that our
Customs and Taxation Departments’ll
send it bankrupt.
»b *b *b *b
“Motorist Blames Cows for Accident.”
—Court case.
Didn’t sound their horns?
-I* -I- *l* -V
“ ‘Some horses have a distinct sense of
humor,’ says a trainer.”
And don’t they love chaff!
•b *b 4* *b
“ ‘ln spite of the inconvenience they cause,
temperamental actresses are in great demand
at film studios,’ says a movie magazine.”
All the rage!
-S' 'l* 'l*
“He got a black eye when the bar-room door
was slammed in his face.” —News item.
Closing time!
“The Queen Mary has a staff of over 100
cooks.”
Passengers are advised to keep oft the
broth.
*r *b *b *b
A Personal Recommendation.
“Wanted, a thrower for large ware pottery.”
— “Argus.”
Mr. H. N. Peeke writes :
Dear Sir,
May I respectfully submit my wife’s
name for your consideration? She has
had 25 years’ experience as a pottery
thrower (we were married in 1911), and
she is recognised as the champion of our
suburb. Large ware or small, it’s all the
same to her. She can throw Crown
Derby with the same dexterity as cheap
Japanese china, and is equally proficient
with either hand.
Her best record for fast throwing is a
64-piece dinner service thrown seriatim
in 2min. 3 4-ssec., and she once threw
a large Ming vase and a huge earthen-
ware pudding basin simultaneously, and
with such force and accuracy that it was
impossible to distinguish the respective
fragments among the debris.
For references I would refer you to
Crockery Supplies and Replacements,
Ltd., with whom 1 have been dealing for
years, and Mr. William Wabash, our
refuse collector. If you desire proofs of
her accuracy I am prepared to exhibit my
scars to your accredited representative.
Awaiting your favorable reply,
Yours faithfully,
H. N. Pecke,
per Uco.
•b -I- -!* *l*
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
111. — Emergency Stopping.
The domestic storm having abated,
turn your attention once more to the task
in hand. Explain carefully, and impress
upon her constantly, that she has only to
put both feet forward to stop the car.
“How will that stop it?” she will ask.
So once more you explain the use of
the two floor pedals. The left one is the
clutch, the effect of pushing it being to
disengage the engine, and the right one
the foot brake. By pressing both, there-
fore, it simply must stop.
“But what’s this little thing alongside
the foot brake?” she’ll ask.
When you explain the accelerator’s
function, and she asks how she can be
expected to work three pedals with two
feet, take a deep breath and point out
patiently that as one is to make it go
and the other to stop it they cannot be
used simultaneously.
Having started the engine, she is now
ready to back out of the garage.
Touching on
garages, the ideal
one for teaching
the wife to back
out of would be
situated at the
rear of the house,
with a long,
narrow drive
going past the
side of the house
to the front gate.
The narrower the
better it will
teach her careful
steering.
Having, there-
fore, started the
engine, and got it
in reverse for her,
she is all set to
back out. Stress
the necessity for
letting the clutch
in slowly, to rev.
up a bit and just
barely to touch the wheel, hut on no
account to turn it.
As the car suddenly leaps backward
(she having let the clutch in with a bang)
and, panic-stricken and with a “Strangler”
Lewis grip on the wheel, she starts twist-
ing it about wildly, shrieking “How’ll I
stop if —quick!” just demonstrate how
to be firm yet calm. In a quiet, dignified
voice say:
“Now remember what I said—both
feet forward.” As her right foot (which
will still be on the accelerator) shoots for-
ward the car will gather added speed.
Naturally, as she will be turning the
wheel all ways, grab it. When, just as
you do, the car ricochets off the house
with a grind of metal against brick, pre-
pare to hear:
“That’s right, you idiot. This is what
comes of losing your head and grabbing
the wheel from me. I was steering it
straight enough until you interfered. And
I thought you said if I put both feet for-
ward the car would stop. A fine sort of
instructor you are. I suppose now you’ll
say I didn’t do exactly as you said!”
S. W. K.
•j. * 4*
Dr. Watson Replies.
“What famous spiritualist created the charac-
ter Shylock Holmes?”
—From a general-knowledge questionnaire.
Sir,—This delicate comparison of my
identity with the immortal Shakspeare
should be more than sufficient to curdle
in his tracks the ghost of that impostor
Doyle, whose role of Bacon to jny cele-
brated colleague’s Hamlet I have always
regarded as impudent effrontery. The
tribute has cheered me considerably. My
old wound, received in the hinterland
of Afghanistan (near the left hip), has
so improved in your Australian climate
“ What —no swimming-pool !”
that I fear it will never be the same
again. As a solace it was unequalled,
and indeed I may now find myself
forced to relinquish my small practice at
Arid Springs, Centralia, and return to
the fogs of London.
The correct answer to the above ques-
tion is, of course,
Yours truly,
John H. Watson, M.D.,
per J. B. C.
v •!* 'l* *l*
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XVIII. — Defending Melbourne’s
Weather.
Melbourne’s weather has been much
maligned. Its detractors tend to give the
impression thajf in summer it is hotter,
dustier and more unpleasant than other
cities, and that in winter it is colder,
wetter and shiveringer than elsewhere.
It is doubtful whether Melburnians
swelter or shiver much more than other
Australians, but that, of course, may be
because they are used to it —one should
keep an open mind on these matters.
The chief point about Melbourne's
weather is that there is so much of it.
It is unreasonable to complain about it,
because really it tries to please everyone,
and in an ordinary normal Melbourne
day, whatever a man’s taste in weather
may be, he will usually find some sample,
however small, to suit him. But tourists
are notably hard to please, ■ and prefer
to remember discomforts and things they
don’t like rather than the reverse.
I remember on one occasion Sir Percy
Whipsnoodle, while out for a short stroll,
was caught in a sudden shower and
drenched to the skin.
“Terrible climate,” he complained to
me. “An awful day!”
This was a gross exaggeration, as half
an hour previously the sun had been
shining gloriously.
Melbourne is unfortunate, too, in that
tourists always go there at the wrong
time, and arrive in damp, cheerless
weather just a week after one of the
fi nes t spells on record,
You should have been here last
week,” they are told. “It Was ideal
weather.”
The great variety of weather experi-
enced makes Melbourne citizens by far
the best weather-conversationalists in
Australia. There’s none of the bare
“Nice day! Yes, isn’t it?” type of con-
versation that is heard in less-favored
towns. Here the weather is a real sub-
ject.
On a really bad day (they have one
sometimes) the Melburnian consoles him-
self with the thought that things are
much worse elsewhere.
Clambering on to a tram, wet through, t
he will say:
“By Jove! I wouldn’t like to be in
Adelaide to-day. I bet they’re having a
time of it.”
Or it may be a sweltering summer’s
day, and, mopping his brow with a
handkerchief, he’ll say feelingly:
“Gee! We’re lucky we’re not in Syd-
ney. The humidity’s so high over there.”
But to see him at his best one should
observe him on a fine spring day, button-
holing a visitor in Collins-street and pro-
ducing a book of statistics to prove that
Melbourne has a greater proportion of
sunny days and a smaller proportion of
wet days than any other city in Aus-
tralia. (Being essentially modest he
doesn’t venture comparisons with cities
outside Australia.)
The argument usually sounds very
thorough and convincing, and would
probably be even more so if he didn’t
have an umbrella and raincoat over his
arm.
Claude Counterpane didn’t like Mel-
bourne’s climate. He said he could never
be sure for five minutes on end whether
hot rum or cold beer was the more
appropriate drink for if, and the conse-
quent perpetual state of indecision was
bad for his nerves —which led him to
overdo the whisky a little.
He compiled a list of the weather’s
chief drawbacks:
(1) Rain, hail, sleet and perspiration.
(2) Dust and frost.
(3) Hot winds and cold winds.
The list should not be taken too seri-
ously, as he had been in Melbourne only
a day he compiled it,
Jasby.
The Honorary Curator.
The canary is sanded and seeded,
And thistled and cuttlefished, too ;
And the cockatoo’s done—but that’s only
act one
In the round of the family zoo.
There are bantams awaiting their break-
fast>
And the guinea-pigs, puppy and cat;
Then the rabbits are drawn to a fresh
patch of lawn,
And the goldfish are fed. And that’s
that!
v . . , . , ~ , . , ~
Yes, it s . right for the chdd to ha.
int rests, , ,
Live hobbies to make its heart glad,
And it loves all those pets which it always
forgets.
But the upshot is rough upon dad.
SYD C.


A Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:—
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
niu^rewreD
9y
Sucw-
THE STORY UP TO NOW.
Joyce Manson has herself appointed
medical officer in a small outpost in the
Fly River district, Papua, in order that
she may make a study of tropical
diseases. But she finds the atmosphere of
the jungle disappointing — all-absorbing,
and not merely the background to her
life she had expected.
Murdoch, Resident Commissioner of
the district, and except for his assistant
the only white man in the little clearing
where Joyce is established, warns her to
go away before she becomes a part of it.
She refuses, and Murdoch determines
to tell her he loves her. He is prevented
by the arrival of Paul Burnley, an
Englishman, anthropologist, who also
falls in love with Joyce.
Chapter III. — ( Continued .)
“T M not surprised that you can’t love me, Joyce,”
I he said. “But I’m not happy about leaving you
here. I hate to think of your being buried at
the centre of thousands of square miles of unpleasant
country alone with Murdoch.”
And Butts and a wise little Chinaman and a
dozen or so Kanakas. And there are other white
men within ten miles: a couple of planters and some
rubber men.”
“They don’t count. I know them ; they’re all
of a type. Only Murdoch counts out here. He’s a
big man, and 1 shouldn’t like to be in his way if
he had his heart too closely set on anything. There’s
something wrong with him, too —something on his
mind. You must have noticed.”
I m afraid I haven’t. Are you sure you’re not
letting the man capture your imagination? 1 1 also had
to struggle against a sort of unwilling admiration at
first. It’s his splendid, unconscious grip of the country,
I think.”
Burnley laughed.
“We see him differently. I meant something a
little more personal. It’s in his eyes when he tries
not to look at you ; in the way he sits with humped
shoulders, as if a weight were on him; and in the
way he’s been getting worked up over trifles. He’s
not the kind of man to behave like that normally.”
“That’s true enough. He may be off-color. And,
of course, he never spares himself. I’ve been telling
him for weeks that he needs a holiday. But he only
grunts and changes the subject. I sometimes think
he’s afraid of leaving his precious district in the care’
of a stranger. There’s a sort of jealousy in him as
far as this part of the world is concerned.”
Burnley threw away his cigarette and folded his
arms.
“It’s his capacity for feeling that troubles me.
The man is full of force, and some of it is always
overflowing. I shouldn’t care to be near him if there
was a real explosion.”
He stared at her morosely.
“If only you knew how you tempt me while you
sit there so calmly—a lovely white woman-thing, as
proudly shaped as any I’ve seen!”
His voice shook slightly.
“Don’t be alarmed! I’m not going to make a
scene, but I should love to have your permission to
do so —or to have the courage to do it without per-
mission. Above all else, Joyce, I should like to slip
down by your chair and put my arms around you
and beg you to give up this folly and go away with
me. It is folly! I don’t care if your eyebrows go an
inch higher and your eyes flash danger signals until
all the grey is clouded over. That’s better! I can
plead much more convincingly if you smile. And,
seriously, Joyce, dear, I am pleading. What do I care
if you’re a doctor! I’ve no doubt you have some
important work to do ; although you ought to know
by now that the best place to study tropical diseases
isn’t out here but in a well-appointed laboratory in
England, the kind of lab. I could provide for you”
“No bribery!” she cried warningly.
“I won’t hesitate to bribe you with everything
jn my nower: with youth, looks, money and position.
I’ve been trying to do it for weeks ; but it’s no use.
You re marble.”
k e l |eve it! There’s good rich blood in
me and it s not always easy for me to stay calm
while you rant away so charmingly. Keep your dis-
tance, sir!
Oh, well, said Burnley, with gestures of despair,
I suppose that will do for to-day. We can have
another instalment to-morrow.”
She laughed as she came over and tucked her
arm m his.
t“ X ! ove you when you’re able to find a smile after
so much seriousness. I could love you quite a lot,
aul, but 1 m riot sufficiently sure. I’m not sure of
you, and I’m not sure of myself. Things have a way
of happening suddenly out here, and there’s always
so much to blame the place for. We’ll be wiser to
let it go at that for the time being.”
“What do you mean by ‘the time being’?” he
demanded eagerly. “Are you simply being nice to
me and letting me down gently,. or do you really
mean that there’s a chance for the future?”
I mean that we may know a little more as time
passes. We might know once.and-for all that we’ve
shared nothing more than a. delightful friendship. If
it proves to be anything more serious-—well, we won’t
shirk it,” .
“Rather not!”,
But he looked at her wistfully.
You,couldn’t have lasted here so long if you
had been any different; yet sometimes I wonder at
you, and .envy you your unhurried pulse. • But I know
there’s passion in you. I’ve known ever since I saw
you that the love of a woman like yourself must
be a gift of great value —too precious, perhaps, for
an ordinary man.”
“You’re not an ordinary man, my dear. But
,1m the kind of woman who only gives once. That’s
why I have to be sure.”
“And your work?”
“It will gain, .if I’m able to love with all my heart.
I’ll make love charge my work with anew creative
energy. And, again, that’s why there must be no
mistakes. If love fails, my work fails too. There
would be nothing left. I hate to be so serious, Paul;
but you’ve got to understand.”
“I think I do,” he said slowly, and pressed her
arm.
He moved away from her and made a great show
of selecting another cigarette.
“And now you’ve spoilt my afternoon-. I feel
stuffed up with emotion, and you’ve scattered my
delicious laziness like a mist before a clean breeze.
For heaven’s sake, let us go walking and look at
butterflies. That ought to restore our balance.”
“We’ll have tea first,” she said decidedly, “and
afterwards it will be cooler.”
111.
Burnley’s expedition was not a success. He
blamed / Joyce for it, and did not hesitate to tell her.
“It was all your fault,” he said as they sat in
her bungalow on the night of his return. “You went
with me every mile of the way; you distracted me
from my work, and robbed it of interest.”
“If I brought you back so quickly I’m glad. You
look thinner, Paul, and tired. Those jungle marches
are hard.”
“The jungle is all right. But you need to have
a clear conscience and a peaceful mind when you sit
down at the end of your day and look into the fire.
Those are defenceless hours. I’m glad to be back.”
“Of course you’re glad to be back! But what
about your work? You don’t mean seriously that
it’s been a failure?”
He leaned back and smiled at her. That head
of dark hair looked good to him. She was cool and
complete ; already his eyes were losing the ache of
many days.
“Not altogether. Between ourselves, I picked up
a little here and there, but I won’t pretend I did all
that 1 wanted to do. I didn’t reach Lake Murray,
although we spent some timQ with a most interesting
and little-known tribe. I filled a notebook with scrib-
blings that may or may not be important, and tried
to make something of their dialect. But as an investi-
gator I wasn’t really a success.”
He smiled faintly.
“My attitudes of inquiry seem to have changed.
I found, to my surprise, that I was more interested
in the emotional conditions of their married life than
in the domestic and formal conditions, which are all
that I’m concerned with. I had a strange desire to
discover people living happily together. I even
developed a paternal interest in nailed babies playing
in the dirt. It was rather absurd.”
“It was a sign of grace in you,” said Joyce, “and
I’m pleased about it, although I’m afraid the true
meaning of such behavior in you is the growth of
sentiment. You poor dear!”
He left his chair.
“Come out on to the verandah and help me look
at the jungle.”
“Can’t you trust yourself in the lamplight?”
“I’m likely to behave foolishly anywhere at all
at present. But we’ll be more comfortable outside —
at least, 1 shall.”
She made no protest, and they went together
through the open French windows. He drew her away
from the light until they were leaning against the rail,
shoulder to shoulder.
“There it is,” said Burnley in a low voice. “The
jungle. 1 grow tired of that word out here.”
“Is it surprising? The whole of our world is
jungle.”
“It goes on waiting. I’ve never known such an
atmosphere of waiting as exists about here—in the
empty bungalows, waiting for occupants that never
come ; in the river bend, waiting for savage voyagers
to sweep round on some mischief cruise ; in the clouds
that pile up solemnly from all points of the compass
and wait over this clearing—l suppose, for the appro-
priate moment for letting down their burdens. And
always, of course, the jungle waits. I’m sure it wants
this clearing. Some day it will have it.”
Joyce shivered slightly.
“Not while there are men like Murdoch to hold
it back.”
“Men like Murdoch have little lives that splutter
and go out while some of the bigger trees in there
are still setting their roots firmly in the earth and
dreaming of the things they’ll see along the forest roof
when they get up a proud sixty feet or more. There’ll
be a day when these bungalows will be mere rotted
fragments lying beneath moss and mouldered branches,
trodden under by naked feet or used for nesting-places
by sleek brown rats. This small space of open ground
will be covered and forgotten ; and the day of the
white man will be a curious legend among the natives,
a rumor in an ancient country settling back to slumber
in the heat. The trees always win.”
Joyce turned her head.
“You’re in serious mood to-night, Paul. Any
special reason?”
“It’s the mood of departure,” he said slowly. “1
always begin to moralise when I’m about to leave a
place.”
“Aren’t you rather premature this time?”
“Not really. I’m going down the river to-morrow.”
“Paul!”
He was silent.
“Paul!” she exclaimed, putting a hand on his
arm. “You can’t leave me like this!”
He turned to face her.
“It’s what I should have done long ago, and you
know it, Joyce, And yet, I wonder if you do! You
think my feeling for you is something shallow and
transient. I-knew differently before 1 went towards
Lake Murray, but I, hadn’t quite realised how much
you had influenced me.”
He laughed nervously.
“You see that jungle? I can stare it in the face
now ; I’m not afraid of it. But in the last few weeks
I’ve been ■ afraid many times. I discovered old fears
and a number of new ones. I would think to myself:
’But suppose head-hunters come creeping around the
camp!’ I was quick to imagine the scene, and it
agonised me most of all to realise that a spear strik-
ing me down would wipe you out of my consciousness.
That was the trouble; to think I would lose you for
all time, never to be able to see you again. Grey
eyes, kind, decided mouth, strong, soft body—all per-
manently lost in a mist of blood and darkness! I
kept thinking I would have to move on. In the native
village I began to fear my hosts. They might rise
up in the night and club me ; they might rob me of
my Kanakas, my stores and my canoes ; and I would
be trapped and forlorn in a trackless country hundreds
of impossible miles from you. I cut short my note-
taking, and set out on the return trip. Then I began
to suspect my Kanakas. They were the most villain-
ous-looking brutes you could imagine, specially
selected by friend Murdoch, I believe, to torment my
waking hours and follow me into dreams. How easily
they could murder me and make off with my belong-
ings! There was fever, too. I increased my allow-
ance of quinine”
“Silly boy!” N
“I couldn’t help it. The merest headache was
enough to make me sweat with fear. You see what
you’ve done to me! You’ve turned me from a
middling sort of fellow into a most dependent and
pitiable creature.”
“You’re exaggerating. I’m quite relieved to hear
that note of mockery in your voice.”
“I’m mocking myself—always a final stage of
despair.”
“Then you’re not fit to leave me to-morrow.”
“I’ll have to, my dear. It’s what you would call
an instinct of self-preservation.”
He was now noticeably serious.
“You’ve got to understand, Joyce. While I stay
here I’m wasting your time and mine. Also, I’m
antagonising Murdoch, for some reason unknown to
me; and that will make things harder for you when
I’m gone.”
“Don’t think about Murdoch. And if there’s
nothing else to trouble you I can’t see -why you have
to hurry off like this —unless you’re merely tired of
everything.”


“I am tired, Joyce. It robs me of all peace of
mind. No good can come to me while I hang around
here in the hope of something impossible happening.”
“You’re quite sure it’s impossible?”
“I’ve every reason to think so. I seem to have
tested my prospects frequently enough.”
“Then I’ll lose you to-morrow,” said Joyce very
quietly.
“To-morrow.”
Thereafter they stood in silence and close to each
other. The clearing was quiet, and they understood
the reason for this when rain began to sound against
the roof of the bungalow. Big drops came in from
the darkness and splashed their faces. Joyce turned
towards the light.
“I’ve had enough. Let’s go inside.”
They said good-night soon after, and Joyce was
glad—and perversely sorry—when Paul’s steps died
away along the verandah. In spite of the rain the
night was hot, and she felt tired and listless.
She moved restlessly. Once again she was under
a threat of parting. This breaking of ties had come
into her life often enough to leave its dread behind.
She would have to turn to her work again.
She began to walk about the room, but tired
of the aimless expenditure of energy and went through
to her bedroom. In front of her dressing-table she
stood for a long time, staring at her face in the mirror
as if with some vague hope of seeing things that could
not be tracked down by introspection.
“I won’t stand this sort of thing,” she thought
very decidedly, and began to take off her clothes.
But when she stood in pyjamas she stared at the
mosquito netting with a sort of dread. She knew of
old that the flimsy white stuff could become a great
mesh, a kind of spider web across a restless night.
She got under it with quick and resolute movements,
and thereafter she lay still, staring towards the open
window and the black square that was all she could
see of an outside world now trembling beneath a fury
of rain.
A wind came presently out of remote and dark
regions of sky. It seemed to pause at the clearing with
circling sounds of triumph, like an elemental song
of conflict in the vaults of heaven ; and then it was
off again along the roof of the jungle. The sound
of its passing set her thinking of her uncle’s home in
England—her own home since his death, and now
sadly neglected in its obscure valley in Surrey. Often
she had lain abed in the soft warmth that leads down
to sleep and heard the pines in a rising wind. She
supposed there was no other home in England quite
like her remote house on its high knoll under the
shadow of hills. Pines were neither plentiful nor
popular in England ; but her uncle had loved them,
and a great plantation had sprung up on his valley
estate. They guarded him from the world, he had
said ; and he loved to look down from the high win-
dows of his house and see the sunlight on them or
watch the track and raging of the wind in a stormy
sunset.
Joyce had been able
to understand this atti-
tude ; it seemed to have
become her own since her
uncle’s death. But the
love of quietness and trees
was promising to be ex-
pensive. The valley was
a mere half-dozen miles
from Guildford, but it
was accessible from the
main roads only by nar-
row paths, and prospec-
tive tenants were fright-
ened by the solitude. Only
in the last mail a letter
had come from her agents
saying that the property
had come into their hands
again, and that they were
not hopeful of leasing it,
let alone making a sale.
But Joyce was not sure
that she wanted to sell
this home. It was in her mind as a place to retreat to.
As she lay quietly and allowed her memory to
supply her with pictures of the house in the valley
she began to think that this would be the place for
a meeting with Paul. A slow flush crept up her limbs
and quickened the beating of her heart. She bur-
rowed deeper into the sheets and gave herself up to
an aroused imagination.
If she promised to marry Paul she would Want
their first meeting after weary months of separation
to be a fit beginning of their life together. Under
usual conditions he would meet her at Waterloo
station, in the midst of crowds and uproar. Within
half an hour she would be separated from him again,
thereafter to see him in snatches and glimpses: a
meal here, a theatre there, an hour’s shopping together.
And all the time there would be an undercurrent of
arrangements: talk of marriage, of licenses and regis-
trars and churches, and houses to be lived in. Even-
tually they would be married, and she would be able
to go to him —exhausted, bewildered and changed.
It wouldn’t do, she thought. They would be
growing towards their meeting through the months of
separation, for she could not expect to leave her post
here for some time yet, and Paul would be waiting
in England long before she was ready to go. Her
secret thoughts on love and marriage were now at
work within her.
She put her hands behind her head and stared
with wide-open eyes into the darkness. Her view of
the valley house was now faintly obscured in a haze
a little more golden than that which filmed the front
of the woods when the sun passed low along the hills
—as if, she thought, this warm glow of thought and
feeling had tinged the vision for her, and must here-
after be always a part of her memories of the valley.
How different would be a meeting with Paul if it could
take place there! Perhaps it could be arranged. She
could write to say exactly when she was returning ;
and on the day the boat arrived she could go to the
valley house—towards evening and alone. Paul could
go there about the same time, but by a different route,
He could take the main path in from Gomshall while
she slipped, through the bracken and along that narrow
winding track which led across the downs from Peas-
lake. Then there would be no chance of a premature
meeting. In the meantime, she could arrange for her
agents to have the house opened and cleaned. All
needful supplies could be taken there on the morning
of their arrival, and the front door could be left un-
locked. But there must be no servants.
There was the stage—surely the most suitable ever
provided for the beginning of such a life together as
tbeirs was tQ be , They would arrive and meet towards
evening in that best time of the day when the woods
sdu and the twilight came. There would be no
other §oul in all the valley t 0 spy upon their mee ting
or con f use it with outside and alien influences. Just
of them> and {he quietj friendly hoU se high
upon tbe knoll which rose in the centre of the valley
a J d gave them the view of the treetops folded into
be t g Xture Q f tbe woods
. , ;
• ,m'follow In"dne course
J.ght of God. FoimaUt.es could follow In due course
in silence and’beauty -would be
would be the true beginning of their life
» she was now turnine hack towards sleeo and in
b,le was now ,v? rn ! n ® r ~ tO -,- a ,u- S ’ , a
mL'rk a rLll exnTrieTce
Had she decided then to tell Paul while there was
yet time that she loved him? The flush had reached
She went to the verandah and waved once as the whaleboat cast off from the jetty.
her cheeks. Surrender comes more easily in the dim-
ness and shallows of sleep.
. IV.
In the morning the ram was gone. Joyce rose
fresh and glowing, and found happiness waiting. Her
midnight decision came back upon her as she opened
her eyes, and was so quickly a part of her that she
could not but wonder why she had been so long in
it
ag _, he was finishing breakfas ,
“You’ll have a splendid trip,” she said, rising to
ofeet him F . *
jj e was dressed f or tbe j ourne y 5 a lean figure in
serv i ce able khaki. His face had lost a little of its
underlying flush, and his mouth looked thin.
“Never mind about the weather,” he said abruptly,
“i’ ve come to talk of other things.”
She sm j| ed a j fii s vehemence.
“j wonder that you can look so calm,” he said
repro achfully. “You’re altogether lovely this morn-
: n S—and I have to leave vou'”
in § a " a 1 na *f 10 leave you ,
You don t have to, Paul
He insisted that there could be no more delay.
“Eve made up my mind. You 11 see that Fm
capable of a little firmness once in a while. But there’s
s fifi time for you to send me away happy. Joyce,
i’ V e come to you for the last time to say that I love
you. Will you marry me?”
' She put out her hands.
“Yes.”
He could not believe it, and her hands were
allowed to stay waiting in mid-air.
“Joyce! ” he exclaimed at last.
She moved near to him.
“It’s true,” she whispered. “I found it out last
night, I Jay awake planning the future—our future,
my dear.”
“Joyce!’’ he exclaimed again, clutching her to
him. “I can’t believe it.”
He held her off from him, looking at her and
trying to understand that at last, and wonderfully, she
was his.
There was a step along the verandah, and some-
one knocked at the door. It was Butts,
“We’re all ready, Mr. Burnley.”
p au l hesitated.
“Yes,” said Joyce quickly, reading his thought,
“You must go now. It will be better, I think, for
both of us. 1 want to be alone for days and weeks,
thinking about what has happened to me. And I
want to prepare. That surprises you. Perhaps you
will find other things surprising in me. How little
you know me, after all! But I’ll put it all in a letter,
my dear—a .long letter. I’ll fill the next few weary
days by writing to you about the way I think and
feel: my ideas about marriage and the dreams I have
of our coming together in that valley home Ive told
y° u aboi J- ~. •
: marry me?
i . ,
He drew a. long breath. . . . .
- The gods exist ! There s a meaning in the world
after all!” - j , :: .
: ■- He crushed her exultantly. She returned kiss for
away
“And now go, or well never be able to part.
My The „
he turned as Butts a PP eared once more at the door-
“l’m with vou now” he cried • and in truth he
reached^lo^iSataS
He waved once to Joyce, and then, for the last
time, .he verandah was creak.ng beneath h,s weight
“I won’t go down to
the river,” she thought
presently. “He’ll be in the
whaleboat now.”
But she went to the
verandah and waved once
as the whaleboat cast off
from the jetty and caught
the full strength of the
midstream currents. In a
moment it was out of
sight, and only the echo
of Paul’s voice lingered
after. He was gone.
Chapter IV.
I.
AFTER Paul’s depar-
ture Joyce spent her
leisure time putting
her thoughts of marriage
and the future into a long
letter that was to follow
him across the seas, reach-
ing him, probably, when
he was established once
more in London. And
because she seemed to be
very much alone she
opened her heart and
allowed expression to her
dearest and most secret
thoughts. The love that
had been held back while
Paul was with her now
rushed glowing into her
life; night silences and
moonlight became influ-
ences in her writing, en-
couraging her to tender-
ness.
Her new attitude
overflowed into daily rela-
tionships, even reaching to
Murdoch and allowing
her to talk with him more
naturally than had been
possible hitherto. She
knew that he was aware of the change in her.
and that he suspected the cause. Sometimes
j 5 bnd blr 9 watching her while she
talked; and because there was then a promise of
gentleness in him she would have to resist an impulse
to tell him of Paul and of her new-discovered love
and of the universal brightness of the world. Even
though she checked this impulse her happiness added
anew tone to their conversation. She encouraged
Murdoch to talk a little more of himself; in her secret
j oy she would have bestowed happiness on everyone
else, and could not suspect that her every movement
towards him was a source of suffering,
Murdoch was tempted as never before. In the
illumination of love Joyce was beautiful to him. The
faint reserve—the calmness that had come near to
being coldness—was dissolved and gone. Her eyes
were overflowing with light; at times the whole power
of her nature would seem to shine through them. She
was eminently desirable.
On the day that she finished her letter to Paul
u \a! In f ' nmsnea ner tetter to ram
sbe receive d a call from Butts, who came in haste to
tell her that Ah Chan, the Chinese trader, had been
taken m j |ett the o£ her , etter on
0 ~. If ~ • o
, 1 . .° P e
!Tian s ow. Ah Chan was in a high fever, and
J°y ce thought ot typhoid as soon as she saw him.
was in the indeterminate first stage, however, and
might have been in for black water fever. Joyce had
learned to rely on her first impressions in such cases
but , tbis bme . sbe compromised between training and
intuition by giving him an antifebrm tablet and arrang-
in § f( >r the house-boy to sponge him over. She decided
to call a ß ain m another couple of hours, and on the
wa V back .to her own bungalow found herself making
U P ber mind tba t the trouble was going to be typhoid.
(Continued on page 50.)


>6-
yK
n
that
with
gunni
Get down
burrow
Bunni-Di is a practical improvement
on all other Rabbit Killers —you can
carry the Brickettes on the saddle —
you need no expensive machinery—
you cut labour costs and you get bet-
ter results. Just light the Bricketle
wick, and place in burrow mouth.
Write for our testimonials which are
increasing every day.
Chief Distributors fur Australia:
D. G. OFFICER PTY. LTD.
90 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
INTERSTATE.
N.S.W.: CHARLES CLARKE & SON,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
W.A.: LEWIS BATE3IAN, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
S. AUST.: HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD.,
■ Adelaide. .
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
A Philosopher Gathers Blackberries:—
RAMBLES
IN THE
BRAMBLES
BY ES ROBINSON
AS the blackberry terrain is seldom,
even accidentally, floodlit, and har-
vesting has nearly always to be
done in the full blaze of late summer sun-
shine, you should, to be comfortable, be
wearing a suit of Assam silk or some
other flimsy material, the thinnest of
socks, canvas shoes and a pith helmet,
or, to be dressed less expensively, have
on a bathing costume, say, sandals and
a beach hat. But, because of the clutch-
ing and mauling propensities of these
abominable vines, their tearing ways and
the staining capacity of the. fruit they
bear, as also that of other vines and all
kinds of rank weeds growing among
them, it is not only advisable but abso-
lutely necessary to wear the toughest and
most unseasonable of clothing, such as
thorn-proof and colonial tweed, cordu-
roy, gabardine or even leather garments
instead.
Puttees will prevent the legs from
being lacerated nearly as much as they
would be if you did not possess or were
unable to borrow a pair, and leather leg-
gings, as they blunt the fangs of snakes,
are, of course, better still. Bluchers and
the thickest of work socks are, for similar
reasons, the most suitable of footwear.
Any old hat that will prevent the vines
from scalping the wearer or tearing his
Irate birds.
eyebrows and ears off will do, especially
if a cabbage leaf is inserted between it
and his cranium as a means of warding
off sunstroke. After your face has been
scratched a few times, and crude and
vile city fellows, cynics, needless to say,
have, by grinning incredulously and
winking knowingly at one another, im-
pugned your veracity when told by you
that the scratches were inflicted by black-
berry, you come to the conclusion that
a visor, of the kind worn by fencers
(swordsmen, not peace-loving post-and-
rail experts), would by no means be
superfluous either. If unprocurable, how-
ever, a diver’s helmet or a gasmask might
do instead.
Whatever the attire, perspiration
streams out of you by the quartful, but,
as it has no commercial value, nothing
whatever is to be gained by catching it in
pickle-bottles, or by any other means
striving to prevent it from running to
waste.
PICKERS who imagine they have a
monopoly of these jungles very soon
discover their error.
The other inhabitants, all of whom
seem to think that the sole ownership is
vested individually in them, regard
human beings as intruders, who, because
they seem so easily to forget it, need
reminding as often and as viciously as
possible. Irate birds, particularly of the
shrike family, let you know you are not
wanted by swooping down suddenly
from the nearest tree and snapping their
beaks unpleasantly close to your ear.
They may have nests either in or adja-
cent to the clumps of bramble through
which you are endeavoring to force your
way, or perhaps they are ill-tempered for
other reasons (boys with catapults or
pearifles, for instance, or vigilant house-
holders who safeguard their canaries
closely).
Rounding the corner of a track be-
tween the bushes you may be very
nearly, and, of course, unexpectedly, in-
volved in a collision with a cow. If you
are, she glares at you balefully, lowering
her horns and trying to look as much like
a bull as she can, and mooing as menac-
ingly as a tramp steamer in a fog might
upon suddenly discovering that it was
bearing down upon a fishing-smack.
You encounter goats, too —plenty of
them; but, intent upon their highly
specialised task of extracting, blade by
blade, as it were, sufficient succulent and
nutritive greenstuff from the superabun-
dant and predominant tough, rank and
unpalatable vegetation growing among
the bracken and blackberry to satisfy
prodigious appetites, they merely glance
at you wonderingly and with disdain.
Hostile aircraft, in the shape of wasps,
hornets, bees, march-flies and flying ants
that are buzzing busily, without seeming
to be doing a great deal, about the black-
berry-blossoms, and sipping now and
then the juice of fermenting berries for
reasons that a temperance advocate or
a prohibitionist would no doubt regard
as most unsatisfactory, jab their stings
into your bare arms and the backs of
your hands occasionally, just as a hint
that anyone else’s activities are a
hindrance to theirs.
Far from showing fight, the snakes you
may chance to disturb basking in patches
of hot sand or lying in wait for frogs
on the fringe of some lagoon slither off
elsewhere with a celerity which suggests
that they regard human beings and not
themselves as the most dangerous inhabi-
tants of these wildernesses. Large lizards,
lying motionless and so much the color
of their background as to be almost in-
distinguishable from it, snarl and poke
their tongues out, and, if they have frills,
erect them threateningly, as you nearly
tread on them. Spiders, triantelopic or
merely drab and commonplace-looking,
scurry out of the way, if they have time,
but now and again you blunder inadver-
tently into and per-
haps even through
their webs, where-
upon you are likely
to find them cling-
ing in bewilder-
ment, but ready to
exact revenge if they
get an opportunity,
to your hat.
If, as not infre-
quently happens
when you have been
picking assiduously
in the heat for
several hours, you
move from bush to
bush more or less
mechanically and
without taking par-
ticular notice of
Trying to look like a bull.
your surroundings, you are likely to be
brought back painfully from the realms
of idle speculation and fancy by the
garrison of a bull-ants’ nest, for these
nests really are, of course, forts, filled
with exceedingly alert and aggressive
insect soldiery. You may be actually
standing on the nest, which rouses its war-
like inhabitants to the attack, in an angry
swarm, at once, or you may just have
wandered near enough to be spotted by
the sentries (there are always several on
duty), with the result that a punitive
party has been sent out, and (if you are
not wearing puttees or leggings) is half-
way up your trouser-legs, you discover,
when, probably,at a signal from a com-
manding officer, stings are unsheathed
and jabbed into you suddenly in several
different places at once.
Worst of all these nuisances though,
from a blackberry-picker’s standpoint,
are grass - ticks.
They are invisible
to the naked eye,
undoubtedly very
pleased to be so.
Perhaps they lie in
wait for you in the
long, rank grass,
clamber on to your
socks first and
reach their main
objective your
waistline by
crawling up the
legs of your
trousers. You come
Super-fleas’ bites.
to the conclusion, though, that they are in
the blackberry as well, and, like the larger
ticks and sundry other insects, find their
way inside your shirt as you brush
through, lean over, and bend up and
down among the bushes. Itchy pimples
all round your waist and a few here and
there on your hips and back indicate next
morning that you are a grass-ticks’
restaurant. In a day or two the pimples
become bilious-looking and the itchiness,
which is like that of super-fleas’ bites, in*
creases. For a week or even longer it is
almost impossible to keep your hands
off them.
Always abundant in some coastal dis-
tricts at certain seasons of the year,
these pests are especially so, it would
seem, while blackberry-gathering is in
full swing. You suspect them of know-
ing when the berries are ripe and of can-
celling seasonal activities that might lead
them elsewhere, because of the un-
equalled facilities, at picking time so
easily theirs, of burrowing into human
beings, not hastily or at random, but with
epicurean deliberation and discrimination
where burrowage, as they can accurately
predict, is likely to
be most juicy and
tender.
QUITE a number
of vine-strippers
are very good judges
of weight. They can
estimate pretty accu-
rately the quantity
in gills, pints, quarts,
gallons, pecks,
bushels, quarters or
chaldrons of berries
they have gathered,
and, therefore, if
professionals, what
their rewards in
coin of the realm
are likely to be.
I was never much
good at such guesswork myself. I
do know though that there are
twenty blackberries, of assorted sizes,
placed side by side, to a foot, for I have
tested it. Not, of course, especially
choice ones, such as might conceivably
be grown in a hothouse. Fewer of those,
no doubt, would be required. The
ordinary kind, I mean, picked on rail-
way embankments and in paddocks and
ravines where the vines have to struggle
for rootage with all kinds of indigenous
vegetation, and, except for lost (per-
haps even murdered) blackberry-pickers,
bogged cattle and horses, dead dogs, cats,
birds, rabbits, rats, bandicoots, reptiles
and dumps of household and other
refuse, get very little nourishment.
At 20 to the foot, 105,600 would, of
course, laid neatly side by side, in a
row, be required every mile. The dis-
tance from Sydney to Bourke being 698
miles 41 chains, we discover, after sitting
down with pencil and paper in the
shade for a while, always supposing
our persistence is equal to the task, that
we would need 73,762,920 berries for our
long-distance trail-laying experiment.
Not, of course, that I am intending at
present to conduct one of such magni-
tude, even if the Pastures Protection
Board, the Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion, the Noxious Weeds Vigilance and
Discouragement Committee, the Inspec-
tor-General of Nuisances, the Inspector
of Weights and Measures, the Auditor-
General’s Department and the Main
Roads Board had promised faithfully not
to place any obstacles in my way. But
such calculations, though apparently


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win, A, Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
'fy&us can st*t#6e a£f 0 wtoh
one/net wcvu* atozZt
..vSsBSSik
uxnsiy
SMOKx
mm.
mrnmmmmmi
iiiiii
low PAST€ _ /A/r
SMOKi
A SAft WAY
Special stain-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is not contained in any other
leading dentifrice. Make the simple test that surprises smokers. Thousands
find dull, ugly teeth become naturally white and sparkling.
If you smoke, you’ve probably noticed stains on your teeth, or an ugly yellow
smudge. Now there is a way to keep the faintest smoke trace from showing on
your teeth. This way is Pepsodent, the special film-removing tooth paste.
No matter what dentifrice you now use, switch to Pepsodent to-day and make
the smokers’ test. See how Pepsodent immediately "takes hold’’ to make teeth
cleaner, whiter, more attractive. Let your mirror prove that they glisten with
natural whiteness many smokers think impossible to attain.
It Works in a More Effective Way
In Pepsodent is a special ingredient designed especially to remove the film on
teeth. It is this film, not the teeth themselves, that smoke discolors. Therefore,
this film must be removed if you want to escape that unnatural yellow color.
It is film your dentist tells you to remove in fighting tooth decay and other dental
troubles.
This remarkable film-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is contained in no other
leading dentifrice. Not only does it bring out the natural whiteness of your
teeth, but it also polishes enamel to the highest brilliance. In addition, this
"Special Film-Removing tooth paste” has another major distinction: it is the
softest . . . and therefore the safest ... of 15 leading
tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders as shown by
scientific tests.
Try Pepsodent to-day. Not until you do can you
know how beautifully white your teeth are.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
WJS SPECIAL n
WEMOV&
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
MORE PEPSOOENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have cut
costs and we arc passing
the saving on to you.
The identical time-proved
Pepsodcnt is ready for you.
in the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
MI 363
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
r
#
N
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
17 George St., Sydney, 5!) William St., Melbourne
valueless, may be useful to somebody
someday.
If not, why do arithmeticians bother
to find out exactly how far it is from
here to Mars or the moon, especially as
there is no likelihood of aerial bus-ser-
vices to either being inaugurated for a
considerable time to come.
My right to issue
a mat h e matical
pronouncement in
blackberries is, at
all events, equal to
that of the mathe-
matician who said
that if a pin were
dropped into the
hold of the Great
Eastern (forerunner
of our present-day
luxury-liners) and
on that day week
two pins, and on
that day week four
pins, and so on,
doubling the num-
ber of pins each
week for a year,
there would, by
the end of fifty-two
weeks, have been
deposited no fewer
I have tested it.
than 4,503,599,627,370,495 pins. Allow-
ing 200 to the ounce, the weight of
the whole would be 628,292,358 tons,
and to carry them all 27,924 ships the
size of the Great Eastern, which was cal-
culated to hold 22,500 tons, would be
required. Though how he was able to
carry out the experiment without incur-
ring the displeasure of the Board of
Trade, being prosecuted for infringing
Harbor Trust regulations, for intent to
defraud H.M. Customs or the shipping
company, and without having to appear
before a marine board of inquiry for
wilfully impeding navigation I have to
this day been unable to discover.
The multiplica-
tion of 987,654,321
by 45 gives
44,444,444,445. Re-
versing the order
and multiplying
123,456,789 by 45 a
result equally odd,
viz., 5,555,555,505,
is obtained. So
calculation for its
own bald sake, you
see, whether likely
to be useful or not,
is apparently justi-
fied.
I shall, there-
fore, whilst busily
picking and cram-
ming them into bil-
lies and kerosene-
tins, go unquell-
ably on laying as
many theoretical trails of blackberries
and filling as many imaginary town halls,
silos, cathedrals and ships’ holds, by
dropping them one at a time daily or
weekly through ventilators and holes in
the roofs thereof or down hatchways
(when night-watchmen aren’t looking), as
I like.
Character Study by the Author of “Karangi”:-
OUTLOOK
BY F.S.HIBBLE.
MRS. HENDERSON was not keen
on her daughter’s choice. In com-
mon with all the mothers of the
small orcharding centre, while admiring
Martin Spooner for his industry and
evident thrift, she thought that he was
a queer person. He drove himself as
if he begrudged life its resting hours of
darkness, and he was close-mouthed.
Quite frankly preferring his own com-
pany, he did not persuade her that he
was a man who would make a -path of
roses for his helpmate. She suggested
as much to Martha.
The girl had ideas of her own. She
didn’t care a snap of her fingers for the
district’s judgment of him. “I love him.
I know I can influence him.”
Mrs. Henderson was dubious. Not so
her husband ; young Spooner had a good
collection of farming implements, while
his own were well past the shabby age,
and a son-in-law couldn’t object to his
borrowing a few things.
WHATEVER influence Martha had
" with her energetic husband was not
discernible by her neighbors. He kept
just as much to himself, refused his
father-in-law the right to his implements,
celebrated his marriage by adding a
further acre of early peaches to his
orchard. The young trees told the dis-
trict that Martin Spooner had an extra
pair of hands to help him pack his fruit.
Yet Martha did not seem to change,
Martin Spooner did not converse much
even with his wife, but she did not judge
him. She had nothing to learn about
domestic efficiency, but much to learn
about love. She had never dreamed that
life could be so magnificent. There was
little work to do in the house, so there
was nothing to deny her desire to be
near him working the farm. They did
not go out much, certainly ; but even her
mother admitted that she had never seen
her looking better.
Gossips pitied Martha, The women
realised that she was seeing life through
rose-tinted glasses; that was only
natural, being a bride in love, but they
had their tongues in their cheeks as they
studied her. Wise from experience,
mothers frowned as they saw her pick-
ing peas in the second winter when her
evident condition said that she should
be taking things j
easy, and they
shook their
heads after the
baby was born
and Martha
came back from
hospital to com-
mence packing ,
fruit. They
were quite
pleased with
themselves when
Martha had to
undergo several operations and there
were no more children.
STEPHEN was thirteen when Martha
died. She lay in the middle of the
double bed, her frail body but a sug-
gested rise beneath the white coverlet,
her red fair fanned down off the snowy
pillow. Her hot, dry lips were vividly
red, her eyes deeply shadowed, her hair
lacking lustre.
Martin Spooner, standing nervously at
the foot of the bed, was trying to swal-
low the lump in his throat. He knew
that she had had the nurse brush her
hair out like that for him. He had loved
her resting in the pillow of her hair like
that. It was not possible that he was
going to lose her. He had been out in
the garden hoeing like a madman to sub-
merge his thoughts. The dirt on his
hands forbade him to touch her.
She moved her hand a little, rippled
it across the counterpane. She spoke of
Stephen. He was not to be too hard on
him. There was something more in life
than drive, drive, drive. “I am going,
Marty, but from the grave I’ll influence
you to be kind to him.”
A little later Martin Spooner went
back again to his hoeing. He worked
frantically until it was too dark to see,
and there were dried patches of blood
on his chin from the way he had bitten
his bottom lip.
At the funeral Mrs. Henderson said:
“You’d better let Stephen come to me, j
Martin. You can’t look after him.”
The others had drifted away, leaving
them alone with the boy. Martin looked
searchingly at his son, let his gaze linger
over the brilliant red mass of wavy hair.
At the graveside the boy had whimpered
as the first lumps of dirt had echoed hol-
lowly on the coffin, but that was all.
Martin realised with pride that the boy
had his spirit.
“You want to go with her or me?” he
asked.
The boy moved closer to him. “I want |
to be with you, dad.”
“Well, that’s that,” Martin said.
FATHER and son lived alone in the
little home which Martha had made
so comfortable. Day by day they worked
the farm, ploughing and sowing and chip-
ping ; up at daylight, dropping into weary
slumber early in the night. Stephen did
the housework and cooking. On Sunday
t Continued on next page.)


Newly arrived in Australia from
the world's leading pen makers!
The new VISOFIL
Swan Pen
It HOLDS MORE INK
and SHOWS when to refill!
LOOK OUT!
I'm running
low!
WHENEVER you
want to know
‘how you stand’ for
ink just glance at the
crystal-clear ‘obser-
vation window.’
Jusl a few
depressions
of i he fop
and it's full
KEEP IT IN
MIND ASA
PRESENT!
ELIMINATES
i
i
b Q7o
5 HMj
GUESSWORK!
OF ALL GOOD
STATIONERS &
JEWELLERS
HERE is a brand-new invention
which gives you the advan-
tages of BIG CAPACITY and
VISIBLE INK SUPPLY in a
pen so strong and sturdy that it
cannot get out of order. Holds
more ink, and warns you when it is
running low ! Every single part of
it is made of ‘non-breakable’
material, and it is covered by the
famous Swan no-time-limit guaran-
tee which never runs out. No other
make in the world can use this
revolutionary device. If you’re
interested in keeping up-to-date,
you should certainly be one of the
first to see and try it!
PRICES The new VISOFIL Swan,
with clip and mount of rolled gold,
32/6. Ladies’ Size, without clip, 11/6.
LEVERLESS Swan (the sister pen for
extra quick filling ) from 21 /-. Other
Swans from 15/-. Blackbirds from
10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6.
All available in black or colours.
Made in England therefore good.
K See ift demonstrated lor yourself!
Mabie.Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose Bldgs., 255 a George St., Sydney
A. 7-36
evenings he went to church as he had
been used to doing with his mother.
Stephen was seventeen when a young
draught horse, resenting the chains
against his legs, lashed out unexpectedly
and caught Martin on the knee. Martin
was two months in hospital with his shat-
tered knee in plaster, and when he came
back to the farm his leg was jointless
from thigh to ankle and an inch shorter
than it should have been.
The only comment that Stephen made
was to the effect that now he would take
on the outside duties while his father was
housekeeper.
Martin Spooner fretted. Sometimes
he paused in the neglected drawing-room,
his hands gripping savagely at the lip
of the overmantel as he studied the large
photograph of Martha suspended over
the fireplace. Occasionally he spoke out
aloud. He told the smiling face that he
had been right. The boy would have
thrown away his life if he had become
a doctor as she wished. The boy was
better where he was. He had taken her
place. She had been foolish asking him
to be lenient with the boy. He wasn’t
hard on him, but he wasn’t going to let
him become an idle fool like her own
brothers or father.
Martin bitterly resented his useless leg.
There were so many things he had
planned ahead, existing mentally as he
had always done just twelve months
ahead of the present, and he was only
half a man, as it were. It was the lack
of progress that made him angry. That
nine acres of orchard and two of crops
was really beyond the boy’s power of
endurance he never contemplated.
Stephen was a competent farmer ; as a
doctor he would have been a fool. He
could not see even animals suffer.
The boy seemed satisfied. He did not
care for companions, had no inclination
for sport of any description—he had no
time. He owed everything to his father,
so the least that he could do was to con-
sider him in his humility.
FATHER and son were pruning the
apricot-trees when Mabel Skinner
came a little defiantly into the orchard.
Martin was working over the trees as
high as he coqld reach, while Stephen
shaped the tops from the ladder.
Mabel’s cheeks were pink as she
greeted the two men, and rehearsed
words tumbled rapidly from her lips.
They were giving her a twenty-first
birthday party at her home on Satur-
day night, and she would like Stephen
to come along.
Martin stared at her solemnly, grunted,
turned to finish sawing out a dead
branch. He said, “It’s up to him to do
what he pleases,” but both the young
people knew that he did not want the
boy to go to any party.
Mabel’s eyes implored Stephen. Until
now they had never spoken to each other
beyond the conventional greetings when
they had met at the church, and both
were shy. A strange quivering made the
boy’s body glow.
“What time will I come over?” he
asked thickly.
She clasped her hands quickly in front
of her. “Any time after seven. Don’t
you bother bringing a present now.” She
seemed happy. “Mary’s waiting down
the lane for me.”
Stephen, from his eminence on top of
the ladder, watched the girl’s figure mov-
ing evenly through the orchard. She
was plump but not fat, not much shorter
than himself, and she looked very cool
in her light-blue dress. He shivered.
Several times in church their glances
had met, briefly at first, then lingering
a little.
Martin growled presently, “If you
want to moon like a sick calf wait until
to-night. You know we want to finish
two more rows before tea.” He nodded
in agreement with his thoughts as the
boy flushed and commenced working
rapidly. The kid was only a youngster ;
he would not enjoy himself at the party—
he was not used to that method of wast-
ing time. He never had shown any in-
clination towards laziness . . .
Stephen went to the party, and to
others. Martin scowled, but said no-
thing. As long as the boy did not neglect
his work nor lose interest in the farm
why should he worry? As a matter of
fact the boy worked with a greater vim,
a happier state of mind. His voice sing-
ing about the farm, the trill of his
whistling in the evening as he fed the
stock, those sounds reminded Martin of
Martha. In those happy days before the
child had been born she had sung and
whistled much. In the dusk it was easy
to envisage her.
THE spring came round, and father
* and son were busy from daylight to
dark sowing, cultivating, spraying.
Martin rode on the sledge, carrying the
drum of spray, .working the pump while
Stephen dragged the hose and nozzle
through the trees. The routine work of
each spring, but this year a hated period
because the boy could not evade his
father.
There had been a moon that Sunday
night, and the fragrance of the blossoms
from the orchards on either side of the
road. The young couple loitered home
from church, the bud of their desires
swelling in their minds. Life would be
impossible if they were not always
together.
At the breakfast table Stephen said:
“Mabel and I want to get married in a
month’s time.”
Martin placed his porridge spoon down
slowly. A white dimple appeared in the
corner of his mouth. The boy’s glance
slipped away from his.
“We want to get married at the end of
the month,” the boy repeated nervously.
“Got her in trouble, have you?”
Stephen jumped up and upset his chair.
“I never think of her like that, dad!”
He could hardly speak coherently.
“You’ve no right to say that. She’s
sweet. We’re going to get married, I
tell you.”
Martin nodded. “No harm in you
thinking so, but I say you’re not. Why,
you brat, you’re only nineteen. You’ve
got to do as I say. No blasted girl is
going to ruin you.”
The boy backed away. He was very
white. “It won’t hurt you us getting
married. She’ll live here and look after
you. We talked about that.”
Anger made Martin’s eyes gleam red
fire. “You’ll do what I say. Get the
mare harnessed to the spray sled. Those
apples have got to be done to-day.”
When Martin limped outside Stephen
had the sledge ready. Standing beside
the drum of spray Martin drove the mare
down to the apple orchard. He felt a
fierce satisfaction aroused from the
gloom on the boy’s face. The silly kid!
If Martha had been alive she would have
been quite excited to think her boy was
in love. That made him smile —that
thought about love. The kid did not
know the meaning of the word. Calf-
love, yes—the urge of sex. It was better
for him to keep his mouth shut while he
worked.
Savagely Martin worked at the pump
handle, now and then growling at the
boy to hurry. He felt the desire to make
the other understand that he had to obey
his father. Making him obedient was a
kindness. Martha had asked him to be
kind. She had been a peculiar person,
rather soft in her ideas. The boy did not
seem to have inherited them. That was
as it should be. He had her looks, but
he had his father’s spirit.
The white apple petals tumbled free as
the hissing spray bathed them or the
boy bumped into a branch, and some of
them settled in the unruly mass of his red
hair. Martin noticed the petals clinging,
and his working of the pump eased.
Martha had had her hair dappled with
apple blossoms that first spring. Those
trees were gone now, but they had
dropped their petals just the same as
these did. She had been so sweet, a wild
mad light in her eyes, her lips burning
his when he had kissed her. They had
been like children . . .
Now and again Martin shook himself,
tried not to remember. As he thought of
Martha, her red hair foaming to her
waist because she had drawn out the
pins at his request, the apple blossoms
dappling it like confetti, a hot pain
writhed inside him, spread to his mind.
Martha was so near. That boy with her
hair—the apple blossoms.
They came to the last tree in the last
row and the boy tucked the spray back
beside the pump. His eyes were moist,
inflamed, as if the spray had irritated
them or he had been crying.
“You’d better go over, and see the girl
to-night,” his father said clearly.
The boy started, looked up. Martin
scowled. He had not meant to speak
like that, say that . . . The kid looked
so much like her with those blossoms on
his hair.
“You mean, dad, I can?” The boy was
gulping. “I can marry her?”
“I can’t,” Martin growled.
“God!” The boy’s hand went out
towards his father. “You give me your
word 1 can marry her?”
Martin’s lip curled in a sneer. “Like
the rest of ’em you know your dad never
goes back on his word, eh?”
“I want to be sure.”
Martin nodded. There was a faint
gleam of admiration in his eye. “I give
it to you, then. Where are you going?”
“I’m going to tell her now. We hardly
hoped” He was running, a few
petals lifting and floating from his head.
Martin called to him to return, but he
did not hear.
ANGER and disgust fumed into
Martin’s mind. He had been a soft
fool. He had not wanted to give his
consent. He wouldn’t. But he had given
the boy his word. Blast Martha! Why
was she so sweet in his mind? He could
only remember her as she had been
before the child had arrived —not those
later years when she had been fading.
Methodically he unharnessed the
horse, put feed out for it, went down to
the house. His mind was made up. He
had made a fool of himself. Now he
would have to make the best of it. Mabel
was a good little housekeeper, he knew
that, and perhaps she would inspire the
boy as Martha had done him. She would
look after them, give them more time to
spend on the farm.
Suddenly he chuckled. The amusement
gained from his thoughts echoed in his
voice as he paused before Martha s
photograph.
“Old girl,” he told the woman smiling
at him, “you can rest properly. We re
going to be looked after. That boy takes
after me. That he does. If I hadn t
agreed I suppose the young devils would
have made me. You agree with me, don t
you? You talked about coming back
from the grave to influence me. That s
bunkum. It can’t be did.” He was smil-
ing. “Besides, he’s like me, isn t he.
There’ll be three pairs of hands to pacK
now.”
He glanced round the empty room
rather guiltily, a little shamefacedly,
before he took a handful of apple pcta..>
out of his pocket and heaped them on
the mantel beneath the picture.


Eii,, 1
waam
HI
iiiviis '..jiVv
Wi
,4
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
to
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you — ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs — colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment-—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
'sA WIETY
FMST
s>*
S&
m< -w y rpr|® myi
IwS® wi Ww
IliSflSMi^
f
ad
HANDSOME HARRY
AND THE NIG
"There are more ways of stackin’ a pack of broads than
' dreamt of by theTphilosopliers.”— Shakspeare.
BY CON DREW
IT was the time
when professional
footrunnin’ was in
the boom that the
thing I’m fellin’ you fellers of came about.
Me and Handsome Harry had shaken
the Sydney dust off our feet, so to speak,
and had started a bettin’ shop in a town
out Bathurst way. We’d been in the town
about two months, and everythin’ was
goin’ as smooth as the business side of a
banana skin until the local publican took
it into his head to promote a sort of two
days’ sports meetin’ affair, with the heats
of a 100 yards footrunnin’ handicap on
(he first day and tug-o’-wars and all the
rest of it on the second. The final of the
footrunnin’ was to be held on the
mornin’ of the second day as a sort of
introduction to the other sports.
He was a shrewd bird, that publican.
He figured that the stunt would bring
good business, an(J he was right. Three
days before the affair was scheduled to
commence people from the surroundin’
district started to roll into town. There
was only one pub to stay at, and those the
publican couldn’t find room for in his
pub he parked in tents behind the joint.
Me and Handsome thought it was up
to us to do a bit of business, too, so
when the handicaps for the footrunnin’
came out we opened up a £lOO straight-
out book on the race. We had the names
of the peds. and their prices chalked up
on the blackboard, and our joint was
generally full of country sports makin’
bets and talkin’ about the handicap.
ON the day before the heats Handsome
and me are sittin’ down in the shop
smokin’ the pipe of peace when in floats
a stranger bloke in moleskin pants. He
just ambles over to the board and
has a screw at the runners. “H’m,” he
says after a bit. “I see you’re bettin’ ten
to one about that Mooree nigger. Can
he run?”
“I don’t know nothin’ about him,” says
Handsome, “except that he’s on the five-
yards mark.”
“H’m,” says the bloke again. “Well, I
don’t go much on niggers as a rule, but
he might be a dark horse. I’ll risk a
fiver on him.” He hands Handsome a
fiver, gets his ticket and floats towards
the door.
“You’d better alter the nigger’s price
to eights,” says Handsome when the bloke
has gone,
“0.K.,” I says, and over I goes to the
board. I’d just made the alteration when
in comes another feller and ambles over
to the board.
“You wouldn’t care to extend the odds
a point and bet me six to one about
McKenzie, would you?” he says after a
bit. McKenzie was carrying a lot of the
local money, and Handsome shook his
head. “Fives is the best price we can
offer you,” he says.
“Well, that’s bad luck,” says the bloke ;
“I should have come in earlier. Never
mind,” says he, “I’ll have a go at some-
thin’ else. You can bet me forty quid
to five about that nigger.”
That made ninety quid to ten we’d laid
agen the darkie, and when the bloke had
gone Handsome goes over and rubs his
price off the board. “We don’t want to
lay any more agen him,” says Handsome.
“He’s taking out nearly as much as the
favorite.”
He was only just in time, for a second
later in came another bloke who wanted
to back the nigger, and later on two more
nigger-fanciers rolled up.
We’d clean forgot that there was a
barman at the pub takin’ bets for us,
and we got a bit of a shock a quarter of
an hour later when he came dashing into
the shop. “Don’t lay too much agen the
Mooree nigger,” he says. “I’ve just bet
a chap fifty pounds to five agen him.”
“You what?” says Handsome.
“I laid fifty quid agen him to a bloke
in moleskins,” says the barman. “You
told me to fake in any sugar I could get
hold of.”
Handsome looks at him for a bit, then
nods his head. “That’s right,” says he.
“I was forgettin’.”
“That puts us right in the soup, don’t
it?” says Handsome when" the barman
had gone.
“It puts us that far in,” says I, “that the
nigger is takin’ out fifty quid more than
the favorite.”
“Oh, well,” says Handsome, “we’ll
have to extend the odds against the other
ped s. and try
and bet up to it.”
We did extend
the odds, but
there were very
few takers. Every-
one was dead set
on backin’ the
d a r k i e and
wouldn’t come at
anyt h i n’ else.
When the heats
were due next
day we were in cold storage for forty
quid.
THE heats were run on a narrow grass
track in an oval on the outskirts of
the town, and maybe the nigger didn’t
show his white-skinned brethren how to
run. He flew home singin’ ragtime in
both heats. And he ran barefooted,
mind yer, agen men who were wearin’
runnin’-shoes.
After tea that night I says to Hand-
some, “It’s goin’ to cost us forty frog-
skins. The nigger’s a certainty.”
“He is if Regan don’t beat him,” says
Handsome.
Regan was a ped. that we’d held up in
the bettin’ and had runnin’ for our-
selves. He’d won his heat that day, but
his time was a long way behind the
coon’s.
“Regan,” says I, “ain’t got no more
chance of beatin’ the nig. than you’d
have of sellin’ hymnbooks in a two-up
school.”
“He’s the best of the rest of the
bunch,” says Handsome. “Don’t forget
that.”
“He’s the best of the rest,” says I,
“but he won’t beat the coon.”
“Don’t you bet on it,” says Handsome.
“Why?”
“Never mind why,” says Handsome,
“but don’t you bet on it. Ever hear of
a bloke called Shakspeare?”
“I have not,” says I.
“He was a great French orator,” says
Handsome. “One of his sayin’s goes
somethin’ like this, ‘There are more ways
of stackin’ a pack of broads than are
dreamt of by the philosophers.’ You
ought to look him up.”
After a bit he looks at the clock.
“Hullo,” he says, “it’s nine o’clock and
I’ve got some business to do down the
town. See you later,” and out he goes.
I didn’t see him agen that night, but
I heard him potterin’ around in his room
long after I’d gone to bed. “He’s been
havin’ a night out,” thinks I. “I hope
he’s enjoyed hisself.”
NEXT day we were out at the oval
bright and early, and started bettin’
on the final. There wasn’t much chance
of improvin’ our book, as the crowd was
all for backin’ the nigger, who was solid
at even money.
Handsome wouldn’t lay Regan at all.
“We’ve held him up all along,” he says,
“and we’ll hold him up to the finish.”
“We’ll get a fiver out of him,” says
I. “They’ll take eight to one.”
“And spoil our only hope of a good
turn-up?” says Handsome. “Not me.”
“A fiver is a hundred rogues,” says I.
“And a hundred rogues ain’t a drop
in the ocean,” says Handsome. “Any-
way,” he adds, “it ain’t a certainty that
the nigger will even run a place.”
I looked at him hard. “You ain’t been
drinkin’, have you?” says I.
“I ain’t been drinkin’,” says Handsome,
“and I ain’t got bats in the belfry. I
don’t think the nigger will run a place.”
Just then the runners went out on the
track. No one had eyes for anythin’ else
but the darkie. He was a well-shaped
chap, with skin the color of a burnt
champagne cork, and he looked well
enough to run for a fortune. Next to
him on the track was our bloke Regan,
who was on the limit.
After a bit the starter signed to the peds.
to get down on fheir marks, and there
was a tense few seconds while he stood
behind them with the gun. All of a sud-
den he pulled the trigger, and away they
went like a flock of wood duck at dusk.
Shades of Samuels and Jim McGarri-
gal! How that darkie stepped on the
gas. In a couple of bounds he had passed
the man on the six-yards mark and was
tearin’ through the field like a ragin’
bushfire. When they had gone about
fifty yards he’d mowed down most of the
rest, and there was only our man and
two others in front of him. I watched
him catch the other two peds. and pass
them as if they was anchored, and then
I turned to Handsome.
“Shut the gate,” says I. “The race is
over.”
“It ain’t half over yet,” says Handsome,
with his eyes glued on the field.
“If it ain’t as good as over,” I says,
“I must be goin’ blind. Look! He’s
only two yards behind Regan now!”
But Handsome didn’t say nothin’. He
was intent on watchin’ the race.
Gradually the nig. crept up on our
bloke. He caught him when the pair
were about twenty yards from the tape,
and the crowd lets out a yell. “He’s got
him,” they yells. “Come on, Charcoal,
You’re home.” Those who had backed
the nigger was already locatin’ their
bettin’-tickets,
Then all of a sudden the nigger, who
had passed our bloke and was goin’ like
a gale of wind, faltered, and his
smooth, long stride was altered to a sue-
cession of erratic jumps. Ten yards from
the tape he pulled up altogether, and
Regan sailed on to win how he liked.
The crowd was so stunned they even
forgot to yell. Then there was a general
stampede to the track to find out what
was the matter.
Handsome gives me a nudge. “Come
on,” he says in an undertone. “There’s
nothin’ here to interest us now. Let us
get back to town.”
“Righto,” I says, but I was thinkin’
hard.
We strolled up past the
booth and over to the gate. When we
got outside I pulled Handsome up.
“You did somethin’ to that nigger,” I
says. “Spill it.”
“I did nothin’ to the nigger,” says
Handsome. “I ain’t been nearer to him
than we were to-day.”
“You did somethin’,” I says. “You was
so mighty certain he wouldn’t win. A
man don’t come a flop like he did unless
there’s somethin’ wrong. He didn’t
break down.”
“I’ll admit there was somethin’ wrong,”
says Handsome, “but I didn’t stop him
from winning.”
“What did then?” says I.
“Bathurst burrs,” says Handsome,
“Bathurst burrs?”
“Yes,” says Handsome. “That’s what
done it. When I was out last night I
spread a sugarbagful on the last twenty
yards of the track. Let us get on into
town,” says Handsome. “I could hold
a brandy down.”


Weak Kidneys
STABBING PAINS IN THE BACK, LUMBAGO
You are justified in regarding
Kidney Trouble as a serious com-
plaint, but you should not let it
make you miserable or spoil your
life. Excepting in very rare cases,
Kidney Trouble yields quickly to
treatment with De Witt’s Pills, and
thus the remedy is within your
easy reach.
Chemists everywhere sell De
Witt’s Pills, and it is a wise plan to
keep a box handy
in the house so that
you can take one or
two the moment you
recognise symptoms
of kidney trouble.
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see, feel
and know for certain that they are
doing you good.
You may awaken with a nasty
taste in your mouth; your tongue
may be coated, your breath foul.
There may be puffiness under your
eyes. Your ankles or your feet may
swell and there may be pain in your
back or your hips or your shoulders.
These are signs by which you may
know that all is not well with your
kidneys. They are allowing uric
acid to escape in dangerous quan-
tities to poison your blood and
torture your body, but De Witt’s
Pills will quickly put you right,
because they contain ingredients
which act directly upon the kidneys.
They make the kidneys healthy and
active, and so rid your system of
harmful uric acid.
Nature intended that your kidneys should
act as filters to keep your system pure and free
from poisonous waste matters. By taking
De Witt’s Pills you give weak or congested
kidneys just the natural assistance they need,
and tire alarming symptoms quickly disappear.
Thus you see that the treatment of kidney
trouble is quite simple.
There is no need for alarm
and no reason why the
ailment should get the
upper hand and make a
slave of you. The only
thing to remember is that
prompt treatment saves
much suffering and prevents the ailment
getting a firm hold on your system. That
is why you should get De Witt’s Pills quickly.
The cost is trifling, and a remedy that has
already relieved thousands cannot fail to do
you good. Don’t stop to think it over. Kidney
trouble gets rapidly worse. Buy a box to-day,
price 3/6, or more economical size, 6/6.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen
feet or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains,
gravel or stone. These symptoms usually
precede attacks of Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica or serious Kidney Trouble,
and much suffering and expense may be saved
by quickly getting a box of De Witt’s Pills
from the chemist and taking them as directed.
KIDHEY TROUBLE—
THE CAUSE
5
Mr. Chas. Hayward, of 15, Lombard Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, New South Wales,
writes
“A few years ago I suffered severely
with rheumatism and kidney trouble. A
friend advised me to try De Witt s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, and I am very thankful
to say that after taking only three bottles
of this wonderful remedy I found com-
plete relief"
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
8.E.T.8.: Why not send it to the bishop?
....Timon: Empties duly returned. But the
better of them came close... .J.L.C.: Did you
ever hear a shearer talking of an “untimely
jest ?. • • .E.R.M.. Even rewritten lacks
appeal. And the Anzac verse only reiterates
Wha D m’- b ParodS e of m “Hiw et w" Beaf'he
Favorite" are due for a lorn rest JBJ:
rw vip i d • g
U L '■ a. ,• , . , ~
1 to J nnk ? 00 t d be”:
And rob my 6 drear "and sTddened thoughts
Of all the weariness and chill.
r wr p • Met “nl-iin
wi a hit C £ mvidc form
bad Poetry it elsewhere - it has swine and
feetd icMcL - Meanders too widely
leehng. . . .K.McL.. Meande h / .
J. All right a homily, o £ ‘
fu° em „b/-£ tV Ver TW°° nf y f °- r nf “The
thought m t.. •. . . • ’ rmhlish
BOZU very close. .. .Gladys G.. Not publish
S'-js“f, bout
die place... .Stit. And yours hunted .. ..
G. . No elbow-room for you
characters....L.A: Weak yarn built upon a
Looks \kcly- to be ‘a stranger to -print!...
“efficiency ot husbands has been
stressed so often. ...N.C.: We expecte some-
thing appetising and all we got was cold por-
ridge R ’ L e\/p Un Ipn rv nf Invine
the yarn S.W.P.: We grow weary ot having
to plough through some 30 murder yarns
weekly ■ .E.K.S. -. with a yawn .
B.J. . Dull yarn about a dull dog. . . .(J.L.H..
You state the obvious in a commonplace
fashion... N A.W : Needs pack.ng with more
humor. "R.Q-. Vou must have been studying
Zv ini R R Not Kv enough...
K. We guessed that Sam had bolted with
the widow long before the yam turned into thc
straight J.S.R.; Try it on a magazine for
salesmen J.O’D.; Sending the half-hearted
nudist home J.D.S.: Poor yarn, despite the
ingenious explanation of the mysterious deaths.
J.S.W.: You would have made an admir-
able writer of subtitles in thc days of the
silent flicks DJ.F.; Hat yarn more suit-
able for a woman’s paper; the other is too
slight L.M.8.: Amateurish slapstick....
EJ : a T hn W : S Kd TfiSfSSSrr:
R. 8.; Anthony Trollope once described the
Australian swagman’s life as a perpetual picnic,
but you are the first bard of our acquaintance
to versify the idea Sach: 100 much ex-
planatory preface; insufficient body... .P.W.:
Too technical for us. Try it on a medical
journal G M.L.: Elementary humor....
SB.: These “ation” rhymes, persevered in,
become a sheer annoyance M.C.: It touches
the limit for harsh, disorderly jingle....
H. Not interested in Rollo, the pig, nor
in “ ‘Spotty,’ his darling companion and pHy-
mate E.M.G.: Weren t deceived by The
Fraud”... .R.A.: Nothing in it....F.8.: You
don’t make it real enough; but it’s worth try-
ing elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.K.: Nothing like him... .A.L.; Harsh
Ilnework, old wheezes... .T.J.S.: Has a cer-
tain rough merit; a little polish might carry
you through... .W.M.: As yet you are groping
at the ladder’s foot C.M.: Sketch amateur-
ish. . .B.B.; Puzzled to know why Dad is jump-
ing a creek in his nightshirt M.A.: The
duckpond looks like a duckpond, but the fellow
presumably bathing in it might be anything
K.W.: Have seen better results obtained by up-
setting a bottle of ink....H.8.: Political car-
toon too local in application G.F.: The
gags might have strayed from an undertakers’
journal, and the drawing is very feeble....
C.F.D.: No welcome for the lubra under
a gamp... .8.P.: You’re wasting your time.
. ...S.F.: Cannot see the artist elbow-
ing any of our regulars out W.A.H.:
Try us again—after a few years at an art school.
. ...N.D.: You should let the picture tell the
story... .1.Y.: Cartoon well presented, but the
same idea has been used quite recently....
P.G.: Drawing that was just dashed off is
dashed awful... .0.W.: Work on a larger scale
and pay more attention to small details, such as
hands... .S.E.: Best part of boxing picture is
the careful way you have drawn the overhead
light... .N.W.: Ended on the reject pile....
A.M.L.: Barmaid looks more like a ship’s
figurehead... .C.R.8.; Your abo. belongs to
the American cotton belt J.S.C.: Still in
the student stage, but quite promising....
T.L.; No cheque for that atrocity E.G.:
About the feeblest seen since the New Year.
P.H.D.: It took us 15 minutes to tot up the
mistakes,.. .H.M.: A grained surface is no
good for that class of work.
“Retired Gun”: Like old times to read
of a match at Alice Springs between a
ped. and a midget car. The first go, over
100 yards, was won by the car in 8
4-ssec., but the human, taking 30 yards
start, won the second by several yards.
In the old days in western Queensland
every racemeeting-show week produced
its philanthropist with a pony and a bag
of money to say the nag could beat any
ped. over the 100. Usually there was a
post at 50 yards, and round this the
competitors had to turn for the run back.
There was also a good crop of mug
sprinters who reckoned they could gain
easily on the nag at the start and round
the post. None of them ever went home
laden down with cash.
A MIXED GRILL.
“McB”: Talking of Adelaide statues
(B. 6/5/’36), how’s this for unconscious
humor? The statue of Bobbie Burns on
North-terrace is inscribed:
Erected by public subscription and pre-
semed by ,he CaWoman Socely.
“Turoar”: Another film anachronism.
In Warner Bros.’ “Captain Blood” the
ensign flown by Blood just as he goes
gallantly into action with the two French
ships that were battering Port Royal to
fragments is the jack formed by the
combination of the crosses of St. George
and St. Andrew. This ensign did not
come into existence until after the Union
of Scotland with England in 1707. Thc
of Blood', exploi. as. stated ex-
pressly by Loid Willoughby in the film,
was two months alter the accession oi
witiiom lUtirv
W.lham and Mary. #
“Kataki”: Among exotic brands of
firewater recently discussed 1 find no men-
tion of the coconut toddy brewed by the
natives of the Central Pacific. The stuff,
which is obtained by “bleeding” the
embryo fruit of the coconut-tree, is
for the first 12 hours as mild as mother’s
milk—literally so, for it’s a staple drink
for island infants. After it ferments, how-
ever, it develops chain-lightning proper-
ties which are likely to result in either a
riot or a coma—according to the capacity
of the consumer.
* * * *
“M. de Paris”: I note that certain
people, while approving of capital pun-
ishment, asperse hanging as the most
brutal form of it, on the ground that the
ghastly preliminaries cause the subject
much agony of mind before he is actu-
ally topped off. With some experience I
can aver that no method of execution is
possible without these “ghastly prelimi-
naries,” which attach to thc guillotine, the
j i
sword, the electric chair and the lethal
chamber alike. Perhaps the French
method, which gives the felon only a few
minutin’ notiro of thr Heath hour k the
minutes notice ot me deatn nour, is tne
best, but here again IS room 101 argu-
ment. A subject in the electric chair, I
am told on the evidence of more senses
~ • __ f \s\\\ o a A,, thz. 0.. r
than one, is not only killed by the cur-
rent, which is turned on tor a minute and
a half, but partially cooked. Observa-
tions of American condemned who have
, , ...
died in the lethal chamber show that
agonising efforts to hold the breath after
the lethal gas was tai f|s d t u r o U pb glass
shocked officials watching through glass
windows. # , *
Alarmist papers have been printing
fAf : tQ prove that Italian con-
JXf Üb£“nd Ethiopia is a threat to
Egypt. This arguing by maps can pro
duce some strange conclusions. Canada,
for example, should live m fear
of the U.S.A., while South A ,
Portuguese colonies adjoining it on both
sides, must have a very anxious time,
t „ . g was unfair to
Q ' j ton ' depicting him as
General Roy i
B°'"g ? rOUgh t^ IS ' “ “ Idoffie the work
his o™»
8/4/’36) Writer served under Roy-
'f- 0/ Ath West Aus
ston with the sth and btli west aust
tralians in South Africa (1901-2) and
there was not a man m either^ contingent
who didn t swear by H •
1 have heard many who served under
him in Palestine express the same senti-
ments. If proof were needed it was
supplied by the enthusiastic reception:-,
the General got from old comrades in
Perth and later in the Eastern btates on
his visit to Australia for the Melbourne
centenary. There was always method in
Royston’s galloping. He preferred first-
hand information, and never spared him-
self to obtain it. Often I have known
him to come round the lines after a long
day’s trek, or at the termination of a
weary night-march, and satisfy himself
that his men were comfortable as possible
before settling down himself. In doing
this he kept his subordinates up to the
mark.
* * * *
“El V.” on writing for Who’s Who: —
Ben Greet, the actor, just dead, was not the
, maa t 0 achieve an eccentric entry in
Whos Who when he stated his recreation as
“watching the remarkable eminence to which
nearly all the members of my companies have
attained and how easily they have done it.”
Tlie l ate Elbert Hubbard informed the austere
handbook that be was “ educate d in the Uni-
versity of Hard Knocks.” An Australian Judge
includes among his amusements “rire et faire
Nre and meditation.” There is a reader in
Education at Oxford who fills in his spare
t j me wdb “deck quoits, cultivating allotments,
reading detective stories and cinematography.”
Bernard Shaw says his recreations are “any-
thin S but sport.” But I most admire the frank-
ness of a Unionist M.P. for Newcastle-on-Tyne
wbose f a vorite relaxations are “work and
sleep.”


Our service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist and telephone
operator, knowledge office routine, requires
position in city office. —1708.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, requires position
in city office.—l74l.
Experienced and capable man (Q’land) wants
position. Understands buying, grading, etc., of
all classes marsupial-, rabbit- and sheep-skins,
hides and wool. Woolclasser ; also can erect
and repair all makes of shearing machinery.—
1739.
To buy Pioneer Women of Queensland. —
1685.
To buy a copy of Galahad Jones, by Arthur
Adams, or copies of the “Lone Hand” in
which it appeared serially in 1909. —1728.
Whereabouts of Francis Leonard, of Bris-
bane. —1692.
Words of recitation entitled “Young Albert
and the Li0n.”—1729.
Words of recitation concerning a gunner at
the battle of Trafalgar who, with a cannon-
ball under each arm, struggles in the water
during the height of the battle crying, “If
someone don’t save me, I’ll let these damn
cannon-balls drop!”—l73l.
Information Sought.
What medals and ribbons is an Australian
soldier entitled to who left Australia at end
of 1915 on active service, served in Egypt,
Africa, France and Belgium, was invalided
home in June, 1918, and discharged as ‘‘bein§
medically unfit for further service, not due to
misconduct” ? —1505.
A member of the A.1.F., leaving Australia in
1915 and having the service quoted, who at
or before midnight December 31, 1915, disem-
barked and was taken on the strength
of a unit in a theatre of war would be entitled
to the 1914-15 Star, British War and Victory
Medals. Disembarking after midnight De-
cember 31, 1915, he would be entitled only to
British War and Victory Medals, and then
only when the service was satisfactory. The
ribbons of the respective medals are: 1914-15
Star, red, white and blue, shaded and watered;
British War Medal, centre orange, watered,
with stripes of white and black on each side,
and with borders of royal blue; Victory
Medal, red in centre, with green and violet on
each side, shaded to form the colors of two
rainbows.
* * * *
(1) Is a returned soldier who served in the
A.I.F. entitled to a service pension on reach-
ing the age of 60 years ? (2) What is the
amount of pension ? (3) Would it affect the
payment of old-age pension ? (4) If such a
pension is in force, where should 1 make
application for it ? —1493.
(1) Yes, provided he served in a theatre of
war, and subject to the conditions mentioned
in the replies to (2) and (3) hereunder. (2)
The maximum grant is 18s. per week, but the
actual grant in any particular case is assessed
according to any private income ii.e., income
other than service pension) which the applicant
may have. The total income, inclusive of
service pension, is not to exceed 30s. 6d. per
week; i.e., if private income is not more than
12s. 6d. per week, the maximum rate <pf 18s.
per week is payable, but if the private income
exceeds 12s. 6d. per week, then the rate of
pension is reduced by an amount equal to the
amount by which the private income exceeds
12s. 6d. per week. The possession of property
may also affect the rate of pension. Briefly,
the conditions relating to rate of pension are
similar to those applying to old-age pensions.
(3) An applicant for service pension on the
grounds of having reached 60 years of age
cannot receive at one and the same time both
service pension and old-age pension. Should
he prefer service pension, he may arrange to
surrender old-age pension. (4) Queensland
residents should apply to the Deputy Com-
missioner for Repatriation, 130 Mary-street,
Brisbane, who will give him all information
and assistance in having his application con-
sidered.
% % * *
(1) Depth of the Balmain Colliery (Sydney),
shaft from surface to pit-bottom ? (2) Diameter
of the shaft ? —1602.
(1) The actual depth of the Balmain shaft
is 2889 ft. (2) The shaft, which is bricked, is
18ft. diameter. The Natural Gas and Oil Cor-
poration, Ltd., is at present boring from the
bottom of the shaft, and the depth of bore at
present is 4200 ft. from the surface.
* * * *
Method of laying down sawdust-tar mixture
for top-dressing tennis court ? (1) Proportion
of tar to sawdust ? (2) Depth of dressing when
rolled ? —1677.
Dig out a bed for the mixture, and see that
it is firm and level all over; should be not
less than 4in. to 6in. deep. The tar must be
boiled, and while it is still hot stir in enough
sawdust to make a thick mixture similar to
cement, too thick to pour. • Keep it hot, and
lay it into the bed thoroughly, smoothing off
the top with a long batten level with the
surface of the ground. Roll well when dry
enough to stand the roller. If necessary, top-
dress with hot tar, sprinkled afterwards with
fine sand or sifted gravel, and roll again; the
tar dressing can be brushed on with a broom.
* * * *
What is the Oxford Group or the Oxford
Movement ? Are they one and the same thing ?
-1743.
The Oxford Group is a religious movement
in the Church of England, founded by the
Rev. Frank Buchman, an American. It is so
named because it was at Oxford that it first
took root in England; it is an attempt to
revive the spirit of the Christianity of the first
century. The Oxford Movement, sometimes
called the Tractarian Movement, was instituted
by the Rev. E. B. Pusey in 1833, chiefly by
means of sermons preached at Oxford in that
year, and aimed at the reform of the Church
of England from within, by bringing more
reverence and order into the form of worship.
The movement met with keen opposition from
many, but nevertheless continued to retain life,
and its centenary was celebrated in. 1933. The
two movements have no connection whatever.
* * * *
Where is Devil’s Island, and what sort of
prisoners are sent there ? —1727.
The largest of three islands forming the
Safety Islands, in French Guiana, it lies 27
miles off the coast, near Cayenne. It is por-
tion of the penal settlement of the islands,
and is used for the more serious cases. Alfred
Dreyfus was exiled to Devil’s Island.
* * * *
About 20 years ago the N.S.W. Dept, of
Public Instruction issued the junior technical
school certificate. (1) Is it still issued ? (2)
Did it bear any comparison with the inter-
mediate certificate ? —1619.
The junior technical certificate was issued
to pupils of junior technical schools who had
passed a final examination after completion of
a two years’ super-primary course. The certi-
ficate was regarded as somewhat inferior to the
intermediate certificate in standard. It is not
now issued.
* * * *
When were the following vessels built and
their respective registered gross and net ton-
nages: (1) Aramac, (2) Barcoo, (3) Bingera,
(4) Cintra, (5) Innaminka, (6) Peregrine, (7)
Wodonga, and (8) Yongala ? —1582.
(1) Built 1889; gross tonnage, - 2114 tons;
net, 1192 tons. (2) 1885;* 1505 and 745 tons.
(3) 1905; 2092 and 790 tons. (4) 1882; 1979
and 1175 tons. (5) 1890; 2501 and 1355 tons.
(6) 1891; 1660 and 803 tons. (7) 1890; 2341
and 1473 tons. (8) 1903; 3664 and 1825 tons.
* * * *
Agents for the Ferro marine engine or,
alternatively, where can spare parts be pro-
cured ? —1659.
Hall Bros., Ltd., marine-engine importers,
Willough by-road, Careening Cove, Milson’s
Point, Sydney, were the agents, but this engine
has been off the market for about 20 years.
Certain spares are still obtainable from this
firm.
* * * *
How to make photographic blueprints ?
1646.
Make up two solutions as follows: (a)
Double-citrate of iron and ammonia 44 grains,
water loz; ( b ) ferrocyanide of potassium 50
grains, water loz. Brush paper over with a
solution of (a) and dry in the dark. After
suitable exposure to daylight develop with solu-
tion ( b ). Wash with water slightly acidulated
with hydrochloric acid, and then with water
alone.
* * * *
Standard displacement, length, beam, normal
draught, horse-power and speed of the follow-
ing British battleships and battle-cruisers:
Hood, Queen Elizabeth, Nelson, Renown and
Rodney ? —1709.
Hood, 42,100 tons, 860 ft. 9in. long, 105 ft.
3in. beam, 28ft. 6in. draught, 144,000 h.p.,
31 knots; Queen Elizabeth, 31,000 tons, 644 ft.
3in. long, 104 ft. beam, 31ft. 3in. draught, 75,000
h.p., 25 knots; Nelson, 33,500 tons, 710 ft.
long, 106 ft. beam, 30ft. draught, 45,000 h.p.,
23 knots; Renown, 32,000 tons, 794 ft. 6in.
long, 102 ft. 4in. beam, 25ft. 6in. draught,
112.000 h.p., 31.5 knots; Rodney, 33,900 tons,
710 ft. long, 106 ft. lin. beam, 30ft. draught,
45.000 h.p., 23 knots.
* * * *
How to etch name or initials on steel tools ?
—1645.
Heat an iron and with it spread a thin,
even coat of beeswax over the brightened sur-
face to be etched. With a sharp lead pencil
mark the letters on the wax, cutting through
to the steel. Then apply a little etching acid
made up as follows: Nitric acid 3 parts, muri-
atic acid 1 part. On applying, the acid will
begin to bubble immediately. Two or three
minutes of bubbling will be sufficient for
marking; then soak up the acid with blotting-
paper and remove the wax with cotton-waste
dipped in benzine. When clean swab over
the etched surface with sal soda to neutralise
the remaining acid and to prevent rusting. The
acid must not touch the hands or clothes.
* * * *
What is the significance of the term ‘‘Great
Britain,” and how did it originate ? —1653.
Now the general designation for England,
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, it was
originally used to distinguish the island of the
first three from Brittany (or little Britain) in
France. It was first used officially in 1603,
when James VI. of Scotland, coming to the
throne of England and thus combining the two
kingdoms, called himself King of Great
Britain.
* * * *
Particulars of the wrecks of the Dandenong
and City of Newcastle ? —1390.
The Dandenong, a steamer pf 575 tons, of
Melbourne, foundered off Jervis Bay on Sep-
tember 11, 1876. In a very heavy southerly
gale her screw-shaft broke and damaged the
after bulkhead, so that she filled with water
and sank; 40 people were drowned. During
the '’seventies two vessels bearing the name
City of Newcastle were lost: one, a paddle-
steamer of 247 tons, of Sydney, in a heavy
fog struck rocks under Shepherd’s Head, New-
castle, on September 12, 1878; no lives were
lost. The other City of Newcastle was stranded
and lost on Wellington Head, Macquarie
Harbor, Tasmania, November 14, 1872.
* * * *
The flesh around one of my fingernails has
been swollen and inflamed for weeks. What
is the cause of this condition, and how can it
be cured ? —1575.
Roughtened nail growth, marginal swelling
and inflammation are usual symptoms of
septic nail infection. Strict local cleanliness is
essential. Foment affected parts with hot
boracic solution twice daily; poultice if pus
accumulates, and smear blue mercurial ointment
under the inflamed cuticle at night. lodine in
any form must not be used with the latter appli-
cation. Beyond the bathing, keep the finger dry
and clean; do not bind during treatment. Ine
diet demands attention in all such cases; cereal
foods and oils (cod-liver oil, etc.) benefit.
* * * *
(1) Value of the id., 2d., 2-|d., 4d. and
2s. 6d. 1911 monochrome stamp issue of
Papua? (2) Likely buyer of the first United
Kingdom air-mail, London to Windsor, en-
velope ? —1604.
(1) According to Gibbon’s Catalogue, 6d.,
Bd., 35., Is. 6d. and 7s. 6d. unused, and Bd.,
Is., 45., 2s. and 10s. used, but these stamps
may be bought in Sydney at a little over their
face values. (2) Try C. F. Laseron, 4 Bond-
street, Sydney, or T. H. Nicolle, 105 1 itt-
street, Sydney. Alternatively, advertise in the
“Australian Stamp Monthly,” Box 1944,
G.P.0., Melbourne.
% * * *
Titles of books giving the positions of the
various stars most commonly known, with
their names and a short description as to why
named? —1581. . .
To get the positions of the principal stars,
first of all it would be necessary for you to
purchase a star atlas. Norton’s Star Atlas is
a good and inexpensive one. For short
descriptions of stars and constellations there
are several little books published. Stars of the
Southern Heavens, by J. Nangle (Angus and
Robertson), and Stars of the Southern Skies,
by M. A. Orr (Longmans, Green and Co.),
would be suitable.
* * * *
For the past six months I have had a rash
on the hack of my hands, like small water
blisters. The chemist assures me that it is only
nerves, and has given me a lotion to keep on
them, hut it only seems to relieve, not cure.
Do you think it necessary to consult a doctor,
or could you advise some other remedy ? —1553.
Examination is advised. A nerve rash is
not usually confined to the hands. With the
blister formation there is some indication of
blood deficiency apart from infection —it is
understood that pus formation is absent.
Apply calamine lotion (carbolised 1 per cent.)
for relief of irritation. Include fresh milk,
limewater and green vegetables freely in the
diet.
* * * *
Why is butter considered to he such a good
food and what is the food value of margarine ?
—1567.
Fresh butter contains 83 to 88 per cent, of
milk fat and about 13 per cent, of water, with
small amounts of curd, milk sugar and salts.
It has a high energy value, giving 3410 calories
approx, per pound. In an average diet about
2 ounces of butter per day, including that
used in cooking, is sufficient. Compared with
margarine it has no advantage so far as energy
value is concerned, but it is slightly more diges-
tible and contains vitamins A and D. These
may be added by manufacturers to bring mar-
garine to the butter standard. Percentage of
fat in both is practically the same, but butter
has the larger proportion of volatile fatty acids.
* * * *
Why is it that, usually, more of a solute
will dissolve in a solvent as the temperature of
the solvent is increased ? —1585.
Molecular activity controls the rate of solu-
tion in every chemical reaction. When a solid
is immersed in a liquid, the forces which
oppose the solution of the former are the
attractive forces exerted by its molecules upon
each other, and those of the liquid upon them-
selves. The forces that tend to effect solution
are the attractive forces exerted by the mole-
cules of the liquid upon those of the solid,
plus the kinetic energy of the molecules them-
selves. Through medium of this molecular
action a gradual equilibrium is established; the
solution becomes saturated with regard to the
particular solid. The amount of solid held in
solution depends upon the temperature, as
with heat application the kinetic energy of the
molecules is increased; the rate of solution is
affected in similar manner. In a saturated solu-
tion some precipitation of the solids must be
anticipated with subsequent cooling of the
liquid. For reference see Newth’s Inorganic
Chemistry.
* * * *
Where is the quotation commencing “Thy
love is better than high birth” to be found ?
1244.
The passage is in Shakspeare’s ninety-first
sonnet, and runs:
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
Richer than wealth, prouder than garment’s cost,
Of more delight than hawks and horses be;
And having thee, of all men’s pride I boast.
* * * *
Method for washing coarse salt to remove
fine dust from it without too much loss of
weight .'’—l6sl.
Salt of various sizes is generally graded by
sieving it through a series of vibrating screens.
Coarser salt could be washed with a spray of
water, which would dissolve the fine salt dust,
but the coarse material remaining would need
drying again, and thus sieving would probably
be the most economical method to adopt.
* * * *
Recipes for making honey-mead and rhu-
barb wine ? —1622.
Mead. —To every gallon of water add
honey. Boil for one hour, skimming all the
time; strain the skimmings and return to the
pan during the process. Take off the fire, and
when almost cold add 1 cup of yeast to every
9 gallons of liquor. Stir well and store in a
cask in a cool place. Should be left for a
year before bottling. Rhubarb Wine. —To
101 b. rhubarb-pulp with the skins on allow 2
gallons water: to every 2 gallons of liquor
strained from it allow 61b. sugar, loz. isinglass
and 2 lemons. Bruise the rhubarb in a
wooden tub to a pulp, weigh it and add the
water: let stand 36 hours* stirring often.
Strain and add the sugar and lemon rind. Stir
well, and allow it to ferment for a week until
the fermentation subsides. Strain off into a
cask; if it ferments again, strain again. Put
in the bung loosely; tighten it after a week or
two. It may then be bottled, and improves
with keeping. Drinks made at home must not
contain more than 2 per cent, of alcohol, or
the maker becomes liable for a Heavy fine.
* * * *
(1) What part of a snake is the fangs ? (2)
When a snake attacks a person do the fangs
or the teeth puncture the skin ? (3) Has the
forked tongue which protrudes from a snake’s
mouth anything to do with the poisoning of
the bite ? —1607.
(1) The fangs of the snake are two enlarged
and grooved teeth in front of the jaw. (2)
The fangs are the teeth, and these puncture
the skin, (3) The tongue is harmless.
Brief Answers.
8.G.: Write New Guinea Trade Agency,
Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Martin-place,
Sydney... .A.H.8.: Write Printing Industry
Employees’ Union, Room 33, Trades Hall,
Goulburn-street, Sydney A.J.F.: “Wind and
the Rain” commenced its Sydney season on
July 7, 1934, and its Melbourne season on
October 13, 1934... .G.A.M.: H. M. Green’s
An Outline of Australian Literature, Zora
Cross’s An Introduction to the Study of .Aus-
tralian Literature and Nettie Palmer’s Aus-
tralian Literature .... A.E.C.; The second state-
ment is correct 8.G.: Yes, at the spring
and autumn equinoxes, about September 23 and
March 21 respectively R.E.J.: If there was
no conveyance to the property, but only the
deeds “given her as security,” it constituted
an equitable mortgage. The loan would be a
debt on the estate and would have to be paid
before any division could be made S.A.:
The Queensland shearing rate is 365. per 100,
and the shed-hands’ weekly rate is £4 Is. The
present shearing rate for N.S.W. and all other
States, with the exception of Queensland, is
30s. per 100, shed-hands’ weekly rate being
£3 14s. (adults).... H.C.M.; William Gay
(1865-1897) had published Sonnets and Other
Verses (Melb., 1894), Sonnets (Bendigo, 1896)
and Christ on Olympus and Other Poems (Ben-
digo, 1896). His Complete Poetical Works
were published in Melbourne in 1911 K.L.:
Martin O’Meara, V.C., was a private in the
16th Batt., A.I.F. He was born in Ireland, and
prior to active service lived at Collie (W.A.).
He was awarded the V.C. for bravery at
Pozieres, August 9-12, 1916 A.S.: Tarpeena
means “red-gum tree”; Goolwa, “the elbow”;
Bunda Bunda, “high cliff”; Tattiara, “good
country”—all are S.A. abo. place-names....
P.A.C.P.: Andrew (formerly Fraser), gross
tonnage 1241 tons, net 492 tons, length 263 ft.,
breadth 35ft., depth 18ft.; Lady Fraser,
gross tonnage 1669 tons, net 671 tons, length
282 ft., breadth 38ft., depth 19ft. Bin
H.T.; Write the Australasian Massage
Association, 185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
S.H.: The revue “By Jingo, If We
Do ?” was written by Arthur Wimperis and
Hartley Carrick, and was first produced at the
London Empire on October 19, 1914....
A.S.F.; (1) Sonnie Hale’s real name is John
Robert Hale-Monro. He was born in London
on May 1, 1902. (2) Edward Everett Horton
was born in Brooklyn (U.S.A.) on March 18,
1887... .H.V.A.: In the case of a right-angled
triangle where hypotenuse and another side are
given, third side equals the square root of sum
of the hypotenuse squared minus given side
squared. Should hypotenuse be desired, its
length is equivalent to square root of sum of
the squares on the other two sides. If
triangle is other than right-angled, then on
data given two triangles—obtuse-angled and
acute-angled—are possible, necessitating a
knowledge of mathematics for their solution.
. ...W.D.: The rates provided under N.S.W.
Shop Assistants and Office Assistants (Country)
Award for departmental managers and shop
assistants in charge of departments do not
apply to office assistants who have control over
other employees in that office. They are, there-
fore, entitled to receive only the ordinary rates
set out in the award in accordance with their
age C.G.: Write Spink and Son, Ltd., 5
King-street, St. James, London, 5.W.1....
V.E.G.H.: Write director Australian War
Memorial, Canberra, F.C.T A.F.W.: The
steel bridge at Yass was handed over in 1928
to the Department of Main Roads, with which
you should get in touch... .N.R.A.: If neither
you nor (if married) your wife receives any
benefit under the will you are a competent wit-
ness notwithstanding that you are also executor.
. ...G.J.L.: (1) “Personalty” refers to personal
chattels, goods, money or movables and
“realty” to real estate, that is, property in land.
(2) Probate. —Where the net value amounts to
£3OO and upwards, then for every £lOO or
part thereof, £l. There is also a succession
duty in all estates over £2OO, the rates varying
where the succession is to a widow and chil-
dren, husband, other relatives and strangers in
blood. (3) It applies to gifts of £lOOO and
over... .K.H.: If you mean quills with the
feather on, you can only wipe them with a
damp cloth. If the feather has been stripped,
take a cloth, dip .it into a spot or two of olive
oil and draw the quill through the folded cloth
against the oil. Finish with a silk rag....
E.A.8.: Consult H. M. Green’s An Outline
of Australian Literature. Books mentioned in
the text in the section required are fairly easy
to obtain E.L.R.: (1) Haven’t covered such
topics recently. (2) Federal Bureau of Census
and Statistics, Canberra... .G.E.L.: Can’t
trace poem of that title... .R.R.: Brief Answer
published B. 6/5 /’36. Exact analysis costly—
charge depends upon nature of test required.
Refer to local chemist or Dixon and Byrn,
Reiby-lane, Sydney. Letter posted... .H.C.:
The taxpayer may withdraw the £5OO profit
from the business and place it on fixed deposit,
and in regard to this amount he will be taxable
in future returns on the interest received only.
The statement that by leaving the profits in the
business as capital he will be doubly taxed
thereon in the following years is incorrect.
Each year’s profit is ascertained separately from
that of the previous year, and he would pay
tax on the actual profit derived during that
year, regardless of the fact that the profits
in previous years had been capitalised... .K.R.:
Write J. K. Mills and Sons Pty., Ltd., 222
Clarence-street, Sydney A.F.W.: Maps of
the counties of Manara and Booroondarra,-
printed in 1914 and 1918 respectively, are avail-
able at a cost of 7s. 6d. each. The maps, of
course, show only areas of holdings as at the
dates of publication of the maps. No map
such as is required, giving comparative state-
ment of areas, is available R.D.D.: It is
not possible to give advice on the water re-
ferred to without an analysis. Forward a
sample of not less than one pint, with a
covering letter to the Department of Agricul-
ture, Sydney, and a report will be furnished.
H.E.; At a meeting of the Privy Council
on July 17, 1917, King George V. signed a
proclamation adopting for the royal family
the style of the house and family of Wind-
sor... .A.G.M.: The result of the 1919 Mel-
bourne Cup was as follows: Artilleryman,
7st. 61b., first; Richmond Main, 7st. 61b.,
second; Two Blues, 6st. 121 b., third; time,
3min. 24f5ec.... .P.D.: (1) Alfred Edward
Morgans was born in Monmouthshire, England,
in 1850 and arrived in W.A. in 1896. (2) Yes,
Mount Morgans is named after him C.S.:
The Lord Advocate is the principal law officer
of the Crown in Scotland, corresponding to the
Attorney-General in England. He is the lead-
ing Scottish Minister in the Commons unless
the Secretary for Scotland is also a member
of that house (Many others mailed.)


««MWv
,
.V- , V %
mm
;■■■
KW/
Oo.W*'
iSR
.y
5^
.-.//
vWA *•
u «35
increases
stock-carrying capacity
SUBDIVIDE WITH
clone Rin *- Lock
FENCE
Subdivision-—which is essential for increasing the stock-carrying capacity of
large paddocks—-is speedy, easy and inexpensive with “Cyclone” Ringlock
Fencing.
Because all the cross wires are strained at one time . . . because no droppers
are required . . . and because posts can be placed further apart, the erection
of “Cyclone” Ringlock Fence can be accomplished in a fourth the time
required for a plain wire fence.
Made entirely of HARD steel wire, wear-proof and weather-proof, “Cyclone”
possesses the exclusive Ringlock joint, which enables the fence to follow
every rise and dip without buckling, twisting or straining. “Cyclone” Fencing
can be re-rolled, carried and re-erected time after time, without risk of
damage. There are correct types of “Cyclone” Fencing for lambs, sheep,
pigs, cattle and horses. Every length is guaranteed.
Send the coupon below for a catalogue and further information.
“Cyclone” is not a type of fence but is our registered trade-mark, and can only be
legally applied to fences manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sydney, And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand Loan & Agency Co., Ltd.
Piii
msm
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of-‘Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name • • ■ ••••.•
•' ; ; • ' ‘ •= , B; 10/6/^6:.
Address
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts-
For details see this week s issue
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Wee 1 W
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 60 trill
’Phone: BWI2IB
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Use More Silk
We are whooping about using more
wool. Small agricultural show! have
fallen in line and are using woollen
ribbons, but the Great Agricultural Show
uses nothing but silk ribbons. We hope
they won’t Sse silk for the Wool Show. -
H. E. Mclntosh, president, A. and H.
Association (N.S.W).
______
Science, Not “Salesmanship”
Graziers generally are fully in accord
with the views set forth in “Wool and
the Future” (B. 6/5/’36). Rather than
see a large sum of money spent on adver-
tising their product they would welcome
more intense work by the C.5.1.R., par-
ticularly with regard to the blowfly.
Over a vast area of Queensland the
blowfly is doing immense damage, and
the treating and dressing of affected
sheep are affording little relief. Whether
the fly is learning to become immune to
fP s commonly used it would be hard
to say ; but rt seems like it. Old hands
are driven to admit that in the whole= his-
(ory ° £ lh ? P est they have never before
seen it so bad or so fierce,
. have tor a long time been
hopefully looking to the C.S.I.R. for a
solution, but so far, except for, a dress-
mg formula, no advance seems to, have
been made. It is a problem well worthy
of the employment of the- best brains
available.—PyTHOS (N.Q.). :
> #
Olive Oil
I wonder if “Claremont” (B. 6/5/’36)
can tell me who is supplying. the olive
Q il used in Australia these days. Before
“sanctions,” oil was available from three
main sources—ltaly, France and South
Australia. Italian oil was dearest, but
Italians in North Queensland, who use
large quantities, would have no other. If
Australian growers can grab this market
they should be able to hold it. It would
be nice to think we were gaining some
advantage to offset our losses through
League lunacy.—L. W. (Q.).
Saving the Abo,
Plans for saving the abo. have broken
out like a rash again, but unless some t
of them come to a quick maturity there
won't be any abos. to save.
Eight -years- ago there were supposed
to be 60,663 full-bloods in Australia,
according to the Commonwealth Year
Book. When the 1933 census was taken
60,101 were stilL found. The, Northern
Territory was supposed to have 21,008
adults in 1928 and 4000 nomadic chil-
dren. In 1933, N.T. abos. numbered only
18,643, inclusive of children.
Dr. Donald Thomson, who has spent
seven months in- Arnhem Land, where
there is about 40,000 square miles of
country, says that there are only 1500
altogether in the Peninsula and on
Groote and Bickerton Islands. And most
of this country is an aboriginal reserve.
Dr. Thomson recommends “absolute
segregation” of the Arnhemlanders within
their reserve. It was thought they had
segregation, though pearlers are always
turning up with tales of the region which
suggest serious Government laxity. The
nomadic habits of the people Dr. Thom-
son wants to see “regarded as an integral
part of the scheme.”
Then the traveller thinks that abo.
areas should be patrolled regularly by
anthropologists who would apply anthro-
pological methods. And there should be
a qualified medical officer. There is
already one at Darwin.
Dr. Thomson calls for the establish-
ment of a Department of Native Affairs
staffed by men “selected solely for their
special qualifications.” Every State with
blacks already has such a department.
Still there is something to be said for
the suggestion that the whole abo. ques-
tion should be turned over to the Com-
monwealth and a staff established on the
lines of the New Guinea and Papuan
patrols.
For a start, Canberra might borrow a
few of the Papuan young men of the
Hides type, who would be able to give
those who now handle black tribes a lot
of hints about dealing with, controlling
and preserving the unsophisticated native.
—E.H. M. (N.S.W.).
Mary Ann’s Standpoint
Most MaryAnns in private homes have
very little chance of becoming efficient.
I have worked for the wives of doc-
tors, school-teachers, business managers
and even an author. Not once have I
been dismissed from a situation, nor have
I left without an excellent reference, yet
I am one of the world’s worst cooks.
Women advertise for cook-generals.
What they really want is someone who
is willing, or appears to be willing, to
listen to them talking of themselves.
I am on duty for, roughly, 14 hours
a day, yet I do no more than six hours’
work. The rest of the time I spend
listening to my mistress, finding mislaid
books, spectacles, etc., and even cleaning
her shoes, curling her hair and helping
her dress.
Capable girls cannot bear to waste so
much time, and consequently hire their
services to male employers or efficiently-
run hotels and boarding-houses.
Another angle. If we do our work
thoroughly and quickly the time thus
saved has to be spent in doing more
petty jobs. We get no more wages nor
time off, nor can we better ourselves in
any way. In private homes the best and
worst Mary Anns get the same wages.
However, I, for one, am satisfied. As
I had had no experience of housework
I find it easier to look awed and say
“Really!” and “Oh!” when my mistress
tells me how superior she is than to learn
to cook. If women are willing to pay
me 255. a week and keep to flatter their
vanity, why should I worry? —M. A.
(N.S.W.).
“Mein Kampf”—and After
Herr Hitler is a fountain of ideas. In
other days he wrote a book called Mein
Kampf, translated into English as My
Struggle.. My Fight would be more
exact. The book is an exposition of the
theory that all soil on which German
blood pulses or on which German is
heard must become part of a vast and
unified German Empire, a theory interest-
ing to Austria and parts of Switzerland
and Czecho-Slovakia, but not comforting.
In order to spread the light, it has
been decided that a copy of Mein Kampf
must.be presented to every German bride
and bridegroom. A masterpiece of pro-
paganda, and it is sure to be imitated.
When Labor “unity” triumphs, it should
be easy to force Mr. Lang’s Why I Fight
—an obvious plagiarism —on every mem-
ber of Labor Younger Sets, and Mr.
Casey’s new handbook —prepared so that
Ms.P. will understand his Income Tax
Bill —on every taxpayer. Perhaps it would
be dangerous to compel prospective tour-
ists to buy Our Lives and Wanderings,
by Earle Page and Joseph Lyons, and too
much to expect that Norman Lindsay’s
Redheap should be prescribed as a gift
for all prospective Customs officers. Still
the idea is there. —E. V. (N.S.W.).


FOR MELBOURNE EVENTS.
Compensation Handicap (Caul-
field) : The Wizard or Sindicada ;
next, Windmar.
Welter Plate: Te Huon ; next,
Dusky Native.
Welter Purse: Cargo ; next, Rest-
ford.
Deep Creek Handicap (Moonee
Valley): Petit Fils; next, The
Wizard or Kitty O’Shea.
Greenvale Welter: Radiant Star;
next, Palatinate.
Chandos Handicap: Studio;
next, Quasimodo.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three-year-old Handicap: Young
Crusader or Rembrandt; next,
Grand Warbler.
Dundas Handicap: Bombus ;
next, Whittingham or Golden
Chance.
June Handicap: Turbulent; next,
Braeburn.
Parramatta Mile: Young Cru-
sader or Gothlin; next, Golden
Chance or Buonarroti.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Full Charge was restored to Grand
National favor by his victory in the York
Hurdle at Flemington on Saturday. The
Thracian gelding scored, easing up, by
live lengths from the 20-to-l chance
Sarno. His jumping was far from per-
fect, but the outing will be beneficial.
His speed is a great asset to Full
Charge, who needs only to keep on his
legs to have a second-to-none chance in
the G.N. Hurdles. Perhaps Alick Fullar-
ton, the crack crosscountry horseman, will
now ride A. T. Creswick’s representative
in the three-miler. Akanree, to whom
Fullarton had a leaning, did not shape
as well as he ought to have done. Five
furlongs from home he looked like draw-
ing on the leaders, but the finishing effort
was weak. Still, this was his first outing
over the battens for a long time, and stal-
lions take some licking into shape.
Warpin, who had shown much pro-
mise as a timber-hopper and won at
Moonee Valley a week previous, ended
his life in the York Hurdle. Half a mile
from home Warpin was in charge from
Sarno and Full Charge. He gave place to
Full Charge at the straight entrance. The
race then was over, but Warpin would
have been second if he had not crashed
at the last flight of battens. T. Dynon,
the jockey, assisted Warpin to his feet,
but it was found that the gelding had
fractured his shoulder and had to be
destroyed.
Credit is due to King Colossus for his
fourth in the York Hurdle. After being
a long way out of his ground, the M.L.-
bred chestnut came home very strongly.
King Colossus cost W. E. J. Craig a mint
of money in one way or another, and
after he had been banned on Melbourne
courses for unruliness at the post Craig
gladly got rid of him. The best effort
of King Colossus on the flat was to run
second to Mural Crown in the Australia
Day Cup at Williamstown over three
years ago. The present owner, A. G.
Silk, a wholesale fruit merchant, has
backed the chestnut for a fortune in the
National at long odds, obtained mostly
when the horse was under a ban which
has since been lifted. These freak wagers
will have a freak result if the National is
landed. But that is a remote possibility.
Vincent O’Neill, who prepared Spear-
felt for a Melbourne Cup triumph, has
scratched Wirrate for the Nationals, the
son of Great Star having broken down
and been pensioned off. O’Neill is tip-
ping the Flemington double to be cap-
tured by two castoffs from the stable of
W. Burke —Peep o’ Day and Pactolus.
The former scored over the Williams-
town battens at Williamstown on May
23. On that afternoon Pactolus, starting
at 50 to 1, finished fourth in the steeple-
chase, but was 20 lengths behind the
winner. He revealed much improvement
at the Valley a week later, and was
marketable at 12 to 1 in the Hopetoun
Steeplechase at Flemington on Saturday.
Pactolus won, showing something like
the form that enabled him to run
Riawena to a head in the National
Steeple of 1935.
Pactolus unquestionably will have to
be reckoned with in the crosscountry
classic, but the merit of his victory is
detracted from by only five runners out
of 13 having completed the course.
Baanya, Ranclea and Dubub were among
those that fell by the wayside. Ranclea
was brought down by Baanya, and should
be forgiven. He is F. W, Hoysted’s
National hope, and may be good at the
game later on, if not this winter. Pac-
tolus was raced on lease by the late
L. K. S. Mackinnon. He now belongs to
“Ready Money” Wilson, a newcomer in
the ranks of horseowners.
C. B. Kellow will collect £SO for
Woodlace’s third in the Hopetoun
Steeplechase. It was against the wish
of Jack Holt that Kellow leased the 1934
National hero when in Adelaide last
month. Woodlace had been shaping like
a has-been for some considerable time.
However, improvement already is mani-
fest in the Backwood gelding.
J. M. Niall, who captured the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase of 1920 with Kin-
lark, confines himself to gallopers nowa-
days. Studio credited him with the
Royal Handicap on Saturday, and did
the job without difficulty, Frank Demp-
sey keeping her near the outer rails to
reach the judge two lengths in advance
of Master Motley, with the improving
Dark Sky only half a neck farther off.
V.A.T.C. committeeman Merson
Cooper saw Silver Reign atone for his
Valley failure by taking the Rothsay
Handicap. The colt opened at sevens,
drifted to 20 to 1 and firmed to 12 to 1.
He is described as being by High Art or
Silvius, but there can be little doubt that
Silvius begot him. Golden Light
(Brazen —Spring Morn) and Heroic’s
Pride (Heroic —Kalyanni) had an inter-
esting tussle for second prize. It was a
seven-furlong event, and the style in
which Heroic’s Pride handled 9st. sug-
gests that this brother to The Marne
will develop into a stayer. He belongs
to Archie Crofts, who did well with
Valiant Chief earlier in the season.
Wins by Full Charge and Studio kept
Flemington punters from being sub-
merged in familiar financial trouble until
the last race came on for decision. Then
a disastrous plunge was made on Desert
Chief, whose stable-mate, Jack Horner,
had smothered Greenhorn and Petit Fils
at the finish of the Sandringham Handi-
cap. Probably Desert Chief would have
done the trick in the Buckingham Welter
if he had come on the scene a little
earlier. Lady Kooringal (20 to 1) made
McShortodds smack his lips by reaching
the judge a head in front of Demagogue
(5 to 1), with Desert Chief (2 to 1)
half a neck farther off.
“Balaclava”: Are hurdleracing and
steeplechasing entering on their last phase
in Melbourne? It does not seem like it
when 133 horses are nominated for the
Nationals —63 for the Hurdle Race and
70 for the Steeple; but last year
only seven competed over the sticks,
and for. the Australian Hurdle and
Steeple runners number nine and 10
respectively. This season fields have, as
a rule, been small and accidents numer-
ous ; Saturday’s deplorable exhibition
had deplorable precedents. At Wil-
liamstown on May 23 Heroic Prince
was killed in the Hurdle Race, for which
there were nine starters, and Bor-
cian in the Steeplechase —10 starters, of
which only four finished. At Mentone
on May 16 only three of six hurdlers com-
pleted the course, the third being a fur-
long behind the second ; the rider (Mere-
dith) of one of the three that fell lost
his life.. It seems ominous for the future
of jumping in Melbourne, where it has
been a feature since organised racing
began. In Sydney both branches of the
jumping game would have perished long
ago but for the costly efforts of the
A.J.C. to keep them alive.
ijc # ♦
Ascot shareholders could not com-
plain about the attendance at their meet-
ing on Saturday: paddock and Leger re-
serves were packed. The doubles tote
attracted increased custom, and one
return it gave made the Ring look very
thoughtful. Nobody, picked Roley’s
Choice and Speldon, and a ticket taken
out on Roley’s Choice and Black Laugh-
ter (second) yielded £llO os. 6d. for ss.
With the double books you have to pick
winners, and that at odds which are often
ghastly.
Buonarroti continues to have bad luck ;
he was a certainty beaten in the first divi-
sion of the Mascot Welter Mile. Slow
to leave the barrier, he had to give Rem-
brandt a big start from the top of the
straight, wfiere he was forced wide. Then
he went under by a mere head. Djojka
was two lengths off third, just ahead of
Gothlin and Golden Gate. Rembrandt
had eased from fives to eights. Winball
(9 to 2) made hacks of his opponents in
the second division. He was in no danger
of defeat over the last half-mile ; Salted
Almond and Talkie filled the places.
Winball was bred by Dan Seaton and
is owned by the trainer, Mead.
Greenback (5 to 2), carrying the Wil-
liam Kelso colors, put up a sterling per-
formance in the Novice. The track
scarcely suited the son of Kelso’s old
favorite Note, and the Wagga-owned
Wonder Willie looked the winner in the
straight, but Greenback battled his way
through a cavalcade of horses and
downed the pacemaker by a length, Menu
being third. Sirocco (4 to 1), owned by
A. B. Abel and trained by Jack Kelso,
gave Weiss a much easier ride in the,
first division of the Three- and Four-
year-old. Sirocco soon had the lead, and
was able to hold off the fast-finishing
Cognac and Glabrio, who ran a dead
heat. Grand Warbler was prominent,
and may be worth following ; Watson
was another who finished fast.
The second-divisioners played up like
a Wild West show. Headwin and Sionia
were the worst offenders. The field was
dispatched without Headwin ; Deepdene
(10 to 1) won from Overique and the
favorite, King of Diamonds.
Bathurst butcher W. H. Kennerson
withdrew Some Boy from the first divi-
sion of the Flying Handicap in favor
of Roley’s Choice, plain-looking but a
smart galloper. Backed from long prices
to fives, Roley’s Choice soon had the race
won, and scored, easing up, from Lavage
and Bim Boy. The favorite, Golden
Wings, was stubborn at the barrier, and
delayed the start; then he refused to
stride out. Knox looked disgusted on
dismounting from the Maoriland chest-
nut.
Misnomer and Frieze were heavily
backed in the second division. Both
missed a place. Frank McGrath in-
structed his apprentice Richards to sit
in behind the field on Cid (10 to 1). This
the lad did, and Mrs. Coward’s horse
came with a final run to down Whitting-
ham (20 to 1) by a .neck, with Robber,
who beat Misnomer for the lead, a fair
third. Atucas was fourth. He is down
in weights and looks an early winner.
Newcastle-owned and -trained Speldon
(10 to 1) and another from the north,
Alan Verde (5 to 1), took the divisions of
the Ascot Handicap. Hope, favorite for
the first division, might have won had his
rider pulled out the whip earlier; he
loafed when he joined Black Laughter
at the Leger. The latter, after shaking off
Hope, could not withstand Speldon’s bril-
liant run. Delray got a break on the
second-division field, but Alan Verde (5
to 1) had him covered over the final fur-
long, and won with his head on his chest.
Broccoli was third. He galloped unkindly.
Footbrawl
Despite Collingwood’s unbeaten record
this season the ’Woodsmen’s meeting with
Carlton was expected to give them a close
call, and it did. ’Wood always finds the
Blues a hard nut to crack at home, and
this occasion was no exception.
The game was closely-fought through-
out, and the last quarter was a great
struggle. With 10 minutes to go scores
were level. Both sides had several
chances to snatch victory ; Collingwood’s
superior forward work gave it the honor:
12-16 to 11-16.
South, the only other unbeaten team,
easily defeated Hawthorn by 18-20 to
9-11, and Richmond strengthened its grip
on third place by beating Geelong, 12-13
to 6-14. At Geelong St. Kilda (22-15)
met with little opposition from North
(14-24). Mohr’s 11 goals helped con-
siderably. At Essendon the home team
outlasted Fitzroy and, after a heavy scor-
ing final term, won by 18-19 to 12-14,
while at the M.C.C. Melbourne—making
a strong bid for “the four ’ defeated
Footscray by 13-18 to 11-14. Colling-
wood and South are at the top of the
League list with 24 points each ; Rich-
mond, with only one defeat, has 20 points,
Carlton and Melbourne each 16, St.
Kilda and Geelong each 12. The other
five teams may be regarded as practically
out of the hunt.
* * * *
In the Rugby League clash at the
Cricket Ground, N.S.W., playing a man
short most of the time, outpaced Eng-
land’s brawny laads, winning a great game
18-14. Conditions were splendid:
sparkling, sunny afternoon, slight breeze,
field green and firm enough to have en-
ticed Lindrum to go out and commit a
record. Two minutes after Brown won
the toss a snap try by Brogden between
the posts and a goal by Hodgson had five
points up to England. The crushing
silence that descended on the 50,000 on-
lookers lifted loudly when Brown cut
through the walled defence at half-way
and raced 30 yards alone before he was
tackled. England held him down too
long ; the ref. called it a penalty ; McKin-
non made it a goal. N.S.W. took the
lead when Mork cut nicely through from
behind a scrum, making an easy try for
Gibbs and a simple goal for McKinnon.
Hodgson levelled scores 7-all with a
penalty goal, and 14 points had been
scored in quarter of an hour. N.S.W.
went ahead again when a dash that swept
the length of the field, with Stehr, Prigg,
Hurley and McKinnon handling finely,
ended with Ridley scoring and McKinnon
again goaling. When Hodgson lifted
England’s score by another penalty goal,
N.S.W. had scored 12 and England 9
within 25 minutes.
A dazzling game so far; open play
flashing up and down field, with fast
attack rapidly changing to brisk defence
in swift, clever football. Then N.S.W.
lost McKinnon ; a twisted knee. Apart
from his goals, he had played brilliantly.
Prigg dropped out of the pack to take
his place, and the character of the game
changed, with England attacking and
N.S.W. dependent on individual play.
Norman, Brown, Prigg, Hurley, Pearce,
Stehr rose fully to the occasion: England
was still held out and scores unaltered
when the half-time whistle blew, with
the ball in play near half-way. Brown
got it and broke away, racing for the
left corner. Twenty yards out he punted
over the heads of four defenders, and
beat them in a race to gather the ball
behind the line and score. Beaton miss-
ing the goal, N.S.W. led 15-9.
In the second half the only scoring was
a powerful individual try by Stehr and
another neat one by Brogden and goal
by Hodgson. It was more solid football
than the first half, but throughout a
splendid game. The Englishmen’s shares
have naturally dropped for the Tests, but
they’re not to be counted out altogether
on this match. Several times individual
faults prevented tries. Their handling
was only fair average club quality, and
they’re unlikely to repeat that. But pace
appears to be with the Australians.
* * * *
Saturday’s round of Sydney R.U.
premiership matches produced some of
the best football of the season. St.
George had its first win at the expense
of the leaders, University, 21-18, owing
mainly to a superiority in the forwards
(’Varsity was without three or four of
its regulars) and poor kicking for goal
by the students. They put up six tries
but converted none; St. George added
the extras to three of its four, and a
penalty goal made the difference. Rand-
wick, an early premiership pick, goes
back to the top of the ladder, together
with West, by means of a splendid win
over Manly. The Green forwards, a
hefty, fast-running lot, though beaten in
the set scrums had the better of the
Manly pack in the open, and often pro-
vided the man over for a brilliant back
line. Randwick scored six tries to four;
a breach right in front of the posts gave
’Wick the three-point margin, 22-19.
West had an easy trot against Gordon,
21-nil; but North, scoring two tries to
one, couldn’t manage better than an
11-all draw with Drummoyne. Parra-
matta and East played a torrid game to
a 6-3 win for Parramatta, one try apiece.
(i Continued on next page.)
Sydney won the inter-university eight-
oar race on the Swan by three lengths
from W.A. Melbourne, the only other
crew to make the trip to the West, was an-
other four lengths back. Rough weather
almost caused the race to be abandoned,
but eventually it was decided over a two-
mile course in place of the usual three.
The time, 12min. 30 2-5sec., was good in
the circumstances.


MODEL 67
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 2 7in.
Barrel, Elevating Rear Sight'. Price 45/-
MODEL 68
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 2 7in.
Barrel, Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 557-
Carriage Paid.
Round Tapered Barrel; Two Magazines,
one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price 85/-
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 90/-
Carriage Paid.
WINCHESTER
RIFLES
HAVE SPECIAL PROOF STEEL BARRELS
FOR THE USE OF SUPER-SPEED
CARTRIDGES.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price . . £B/10/-
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel, for Short, Long
and Long-rifle. Price .... £5/5/-. Carriage paid.
MODEL 63
The “Speed King" .22-cal. Auto-
matic, 23in. Round Barrel; for
Long-rifle Super-speed Cartridges only.
Price £9/10/- Carriage paid.
TVINCHCSUR
No. 69121, Five-cell Standard Focussing
Searchlight. Full Chrome Finish. Range, 1500 ft.
Complete with Batteries. Price .. . 22/6
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The West Melbourne Stadium is re-
opening for Saturday-night fights, and
Lean—very sensibly—is beginning with
featherweights. He has matched “Snowy”
Clarke (W.A.) and “Spider” Roach (New-
castle). Both have beaten Miller. By
some old hands Roach is reckoned the
cleverest Australian “fedder” they have
seen since the war.
* * * *
“G.S.”: A merry jest at the expense
of Tom Paterson, the Minister for the
Interior, is the challenge issued by Jones,
the negro boxer. Answering a question
in the House, Paterson said that negro
boxers were admitted for “a specified
period” only. Jones wants to box as an
Australian for the middleweight cham-
pionship, saying he has been here long
enough to qualify. And possibly he will
be here long enough to qualify for the
old-age pension.
Footbrawl
“Jolimont”: Disaffection over stealing
of footballers by clubs and secret in-
fringements of the Coulter law is grow-
ing in Melbourne. It is generally ad-
mitted that things are back to 1930, when
the Bunton revelations caused the pass-
ing of that law. It is hard to see a way
out of the tangle, for Association clubs
have now entered into an unholy alli-
ance with their League opposite num-
bers for purchase and exchange of their
livestock. One worth-while suggestion is
that no club be allowed to tie up more
than 30 players for a season. At present
one or two of the wealthier shows hire
all promising material in sight at the be-
ginning of a season to prevent other clubs
getting hold of it, and perhaps do not
make use of half.
*‘* * *
“Jolimont”: The trouble over paying
for entry to Richmond (Vic.) football
ground (B. 3/ 6 / ’36) has advanced an-
other stage. When Richmond played
Hawthorn numbers presented themselves
and insisted on going in without paying.
The officials closed the turnstiles, but the
objectors just went round to the ticket-
holders’ gates and brushed past unresist-
ing gatekeepers. Policemen were in
attendance, but the show went off in
orderly fashion, the objectors being evi-
dently thoroughly organised and dis-
ciplined by their leader.
“Spare Kelly”: Those Melbourne
League football clubs which are indebted
to cricket clubs for the use of their
grounds are not weeping at the rumpus
over the right to charge entrance to
Richmond C.G. (B. 3/6/’36). The Rich-
mond football club’s case is typical. Out
of every shilling for the outer, the
cricketers take, after tax has been de-
ducted, 33 1-3 p.c., the two football
clubs dividing the balance. Of the two-
bob grandstand charge 2d. is deducted
for tax and the cricket crowd takes a bob.
Then the cricketers and the two playing
football clubs whack up the 10d., each
pocketing 3 1-3 pence. The cricketers
certainly subsidise the footballers to the
extent of 4s. per member per year, but
that gives each cricket member free
admission for himself and two ladies for
the football season, and even the princely
4s. has been only a recent concession.
% # *l*
“Old Q.”: The plea of Melbourne
footballers for the use of slightly-used
balls in matches (B. 3/6/’36) instead of
brand-new ones is based on common-
sense. As far back as I can recall the
Rugby Union has played its big matches '
with a ball which has been tempered
by a little use, captains usually being
given choice of several. The new Rugby
ball, tightly blown, is as lively as a flea
on a hot shovel, and its erratic bounce
lends an element of luck to the game.
It is also more difficult to kick and
handle than the slightly-weathered oval.
“Fitzcray”; The Victorian Rugby
Union is sending a team to S.A. in
August, and players are paying their own
fares—the real R.U. spirit. If the Adel-
aide gates justify it, these payments may
be refunded. Here is a case where the
comparatively well-to-do N.S.W. body
might well come along with a cheque to
help the game along outside its own
boundaries.
* * * *
“Red Mud”: The regrowth of the
Rugby Union code in Queensland coun-
try centres is seen in a meeting at Too-
woomba to form a Country Districts
R.U., to include several of the smaller
towns and districts not affiliated to the
Toowoomba R.U. As these are situated
mostly in cow country, the matches will
have to be played on Sunday.
* * * *
“Gate”: The touring English League
team won its second match in Australia
against Leeton (N.S.W.) by 35 to 13, but
suffered heavy loss when its crack
centre, Harris, had his collarbone broken
badly. The injury will probably keep
him off the field for the tour, and his
place will be hard to fill.
“Well, We cleaned them up properly to-day, George
“Yes, but I thought We were gone when they sprang that seven on us at
the fifteenth”
“Outside Right”: Maoriland and Aus-
tralian Soccer authorities are uniting in
an appeal to the British F.A. to call a
Dominion conference in London on the
lines of the Rugby Union. Canada, South
Africa and India are agreeable also, so
the meeting may come off. Britain has
helped a bit in the past with cash contri-
butions, but team visits except to near-by
Canada and South Africa are the hurdle,
and even these trips are undertaken by
amateur teams. The game is so profes-
sionahsed in Britain that the clubs, play-
ing seven months of the year, refuse to
release their costly professionals for a
tong and risky tour, especially as they
do not need the money, as is the case with
some other professional organisations.
R 1 p j
wacquet and rsawi
The Australians earned a trip to
Europe for the concluding stages of the
Davis Cup tourney by defeating U.S.A. at
Philadelphia three matches to two. The
doubles provided further alternation of
hopes and fears. The Americans won the
first two sets, but the Australians took the
last three to win 4-6, 2-6, 6-4, 7-5, 6-4.
Apparently Quist carried the baby in the
first three sets, but a great improvement
by Crawford, who served with all his
old devil in the last two, put the matter
beyond doubt. Crawford, beaten by
Budge in the second of the singles, was
too good for Allison (already defeated
by Quist), 4-6, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2, 6-2. Quist,
with the result settled, made a poor show-
ing against Budge, who beat him in three
straight sets. In previous matches the
South Australian had been worried by a
footfaulting umpire. Local authorities
admit that the youth has a tendency to
footfault, and Sproule did wrong to
squeal.
In Paris Fred Perry went down to
Von Cramm in the final of the French
championships. He had hoped this year
to win the French, All-England and
American titles; now he finds that
tennis has lost something of its old
glamor. England’s hope of retaining the
Cup has not been enhanced by an injury
to Austin in his match with Bernard at
Paris, from which he had to retire.
Austin may not play at Wimbledon,
where the championships begin on June
22, or even in the Davis Cup challenge
round, starting a month later.
u . •’ . •*
Merlon ’: The Australians have been
ur S ed 19 return via America and play in
the national championships. Crawford
f a V s he won’t, duties at home preventing
dim - However, it he shows improved
Jt Wimbledon all that may be
cnan ged. ine team would nave no dith-
real
viaea Yankees make a noise like real
expenses. + #
» Cut Shot ” : Budge proved too good
f o r Quist in three straight sets at Wimble-
don ]ast when the Adelaide lad was
showing excellent form Even better was
Budge’s victory over the formidable Von
Cramm in the Cup zone final at Wimble-
don when he downed the German by
t h re ’ e sets t 0 one
* *’ * *
“Iconoclast”: Footfaulting is a con-
tinual source of friction. My idea is to
erect a hurdle two feet high on the
service line behind which the server
would stand. To run up to the net
after serving he would have to jump
this, and do the same if he had to run
back to take lobs or deep drives. This
would add to the attractiveness of what
is often a deadly-dull game, and risks
would be no greater than hurdle jockeys
take every race-meeting.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: McGrath, who has been
well out of the picture this Davis Cup
tour, has been heard of as playing an
exhibition match with Grant as a pre-
liminary to the American-Australian
doubles match ; he was beaten 6-3, 6-4.
McGrath constantly found the net with
his backhanders, a typical error of his
when out of form, while he found
Grant’s long driving too much for him.
The Australian can console himself with
the fact that Grant, who has a reputation
as a giant-killer, has, one time or another,
upset most of the best players to come
to the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Let”: The semi-final round of the
Davis Cup in the European zone must
be played by June 19. That leaves a
gap while the All-England championships
are being played, and then the finalists
will have to settle matters by July 13.
At this range it looks as if France and
Germany will fight out the tie in Paris.
Australia, given a rest and plenty of
practice on grass courts, will then have to
tackle the winner for the right to chal-
lenge England.
s]c ?'j *
“Cash Amateur”: What comes dan-
gerously near an act of professionalism
is reported from a Sydney suburban
tennis club. The woman winner in a
mixed doubles event had her trophy
chosen by the committee, but the male
partner was allowed to make his own
choice. This took the form of a box
of crackers. The player is only 10 years
old, but eVen tender years will not be
considered if the authorities, as seems
likely, regard crackers as outside the
scope of a trophy. In those
amateur sports in which open
orders for their prizes are still
allotted to winners special stress
is laid on the fact that they may
not be used to purchase cloth-
ing, food and many other things
which cannot be regarded as a
bona fide record of their athletic prowess.
:|? # ❖
“Roland”: Perry’s defeat in the French
championship final saw a return by the
Englishman to the temperamental dis-
plays his friends thought he had out-
grown. Barracked by the French crowd,
who, queerly enough, seem to have
favored the German, he appealed to the
umpire for protection. Von Cramm, a
silent individual who never shows any
emotion, probably hit the right nail on
the head when asked how he had beaten
the English crack. “When Perry is
attacked,” he said, “he is liable not to
be the best Perry.” Others have sus-
pected this, and Crawford, McGrath,
Quist and co. might make a note of it.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Deeside”: Jim Perrier’s next job will
be a Gold Vase event to-day. Then
comes the British open at Hoylake on
June 24-25-26. This will be over four
rounds of 18 holes, and is preceded by
two qualifying rounds of stroke on June
22 and 23. The 100 players returning
the lowest aggregate scores will be
entitled to compete in the championship
proper.
“Salford”: Most of the British papers
treat Perrier’s fine showing in the British
amateur championship as it deserves.
That great “sanctionist” journal the Man-
chester “Guardian,” which is always
ready to belittle “colonial” achievement,
is an exception. It acidly comments^ that


mm
I
You Expect More in an Oldsunoliile
—and You Get More
m
jw
mmm*
m
ms
mmm.
mm
if
KNEE ACT ON
m
\
/
/XiWvi
SYNCHRO-MESH TRANSMISSION
C.M.H. “Air Chief” Car Radio has separate
speaker fitted iuto the header bar flush with
roof. Price, £27 plus tax. Can be financed
with your Oldsmobile purchase under
G.M.A.C. deferred payment plan.
Check and count up the features that contribute to Oldsmobile’s
all round superiority . . . determine for yourself, by actual com-
parison, the fact that Oldsmobile gives you more features for
your money than any car of similar price. Knee Action Wheels
for a restful, gliding ride in both the front seat and rear. Ride
Stabilizer for level riding without side-sway or body-roll on curves.
An-Draught Ventilation for plenty of fresh air without the dis-
comfort of draughts. Super-Hydraulic Brahes for smooth,
quick, straight-line stops in all emergencies. Safety Body by
Holden for complete protection and greater stream-line beauty.
Centre Control Steering for easy, true course guiding on straight-
away or curve. Synchro-Mesh Transmission for easy, quiet
changing even from top back into second. “Armourplate”
Windscreen for extra security without additional cost. Inbuilt
Locked Luggage Trunk leaves the spacious interiors entirely
unencumbered. All these and many more are yours in Olds-
mobile, and you get them at a price but a little above the lowest.
Come for a demonstration drive.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LIMITED
QlAsiuobile
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL OLDSMOBILE
DEALER
NEURITIS
BANISHED
Business Man
tells Amazing
Story of Health
Regained ....
I
Sf 7s
"Neuritis made my life a misery. Aches
and pains stabbed and wracked every
limb . . . my friend said I looked more
dead than alive—and, believe me, he
was right. He suggested I seek expert
advice—I'm glad I did. The things I
learnt amazed me."
w
//
"The colon, clogged with fermenting
food waste, is a breeding ground for
bacteria. These germs get into the
blood stream—play havoc with the en-
tire body . . . they attack delicate
nerve-endings—causing neuritis."
"The only way to end the trouble was
to clean the colon and stimulate the in-
testinal muscles. -I was advised to take
COLOSEPTIC. It quickly put me on my
feet. Now I feel like a two-year-old."
Coloseptic banishes neuritis because it
removes the basic cause which is Self
Poisoning (or Autoxima) brought about
by a clogged colon. Clear this putre-
fying waste — and agonising neuritis
vanishes. Experts agree Coloseptic is
the sure, safe way, because it also tones
up the kidneys, the respiratory system,
and the pores of the skin. These are
the other organs which eliminate poisons
from the body.
FREE BOOK
End neuritis with Coloseptic. At all
chemists. If unobtainable locally, write
to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell
Street, Sydney. Clip coupon for sample
and intimate booklet on Autoxima—
post to-day.
Coloseptic
CLIP OUT
« Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
“ 26 O'Connell Street, Sydney. ■
M Please send me FREE book on Autoxima. «
“ Also send my demonstration jar of "
■ ('OLOSEPTIC , for which I enclose I/- ■
“ in penny slumps. m
- ADDRESS
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis , . , , Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do It.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, 0/0 FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Ferrier’s mannerisms on the green “must
be upsetting to his opponents, who are
not accustomed to Australian war-
whoops.” Sitha now ; A’m noan arguin’,
A’m tellin’ tha.
Jfc S * *
“Nifty”; Botany (N.S.W.) has acquired
additional fame by excommunicating a
boy golfer who appeared on the munici-
pal links without boots. He was turned
off and told not to come back until he
had covered his hooves decently. Yet in
some parts of Scotland, I am incredibly
informed, many players appear on the
golf courses without trousers and no
protest is made. True, these wear the*
kilt, which is conventionally regarded as
a decent garment at Highland gatherings,
curling matches and Caledonian dinners,
but in writer’s opinion is infinitely more
daring in its revelations than the lack of
boots.
* * * *
“Fifth Putt”: The Maoriland golfer
who responded to his opponent’s “hoie-
in-one” by sinking his tee shot also to
halve the hole had nothing on the hero
of a Stephen Leacock yarn. Hero in a
similar position drove with such force
and precision that his ball not only
landed in the hole on the full, but hit his
opponent’s ball at just the right spot and
with just the requisite force: it sprang
out of the hole and returned to the tee-
ing ground, coming to rest teed up. I
forget what happened next, but the first
player probably swallowed his niblick
and committed suicide.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: Sarazen looks like
having a busy time in Australia. In
addition to several challenge matches
for side wagers, he will show in Sydney,
Brisbane and Melbourne before going to
Adelaide for the centenary tournament.
Thence to Tasmania and back to Mel-
bourne for the Australian champion-
ships. After that he will tackle the Ma
State country districts, and then go to
Perth via Melbourne, Adelaide and Kal-
goorlie, possibly finishing up with an
Indian tour.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”; The annual report of the
Australian amateur swimmers makes a
ferocious attack on the S. Aus. branch
for alleged mishandling of the swimming
at the National Games in Adelaide. It
is alleged that the affair lapsed into a
go-as-you-please, with officials letting
rules and regulations framed by the
A.S.U. slide altogether. The Crow-
eaters are to be called on to show caws.
* * * . *
“Spike”; Finland is getting in early
with an application for the 1940 Olym-
piad, and is flooding Europe with propa-
ganda. Italy has dropped its claim, and
Japan is not favored by the Europe-in-
fluenced junta which controls the meet-
ing. For the same reason, Australia’s
chance, even if our Olympians had the
initiative and driving force to make a
strong demand, is a very poor one, in
1940 or any other time.
* * * *
“Aigburth”; R. C. Kimpton, the Mel-
bourne Uni. cricketer who has been shap-
ing so well in England, must be thinking
of staying there. He has applied for a
permit to play with Worcestershire when
he goes down from Oxford, and will be
available for the county next season. He
will find another Australian there in
Warne (son of Tommy Warne, once a
Victorian batting mainstay), who plays
solid all-round cricket for the sauce
county. Another player from down
under, the late J. A. Cuffe, of N.S.W., has
also figured with credit for Worcester-
shire.
“Aunt Sally”: Kimpton, the Victorian
Oxonian who has been doing so well in
English cricket, has given up wicket-
keeping to devote himself to batting,
while he is trying bowling as a sideline.
Scarcely ever has a first-rank ’keeper
been a first-rank batsman as well, excep-
tions being Lilley and Ames in England
and Murdoch and Harry in Australia,
though Murdoch, like Kimpton, soon gave
up the gloves in favor of batting. Harry
was the Victorian selected for the Eng-
lish tour of 1896, and edged out with a
douceur in favor of Kelly at the last
minute. Harry was in the top flight of
Australian players of those days as bats-
man, bowler and ’keeper.
“Blue Chalk”: Like the unending
battle between the big gun and armor,
the war between the crack billiard-player
and the authorities striving to stifle the
monotony of huge breaks goes on, first
one and then the other on top. Most
of the leading players have now over-
come the new baulkline rule, and new
records have been hoisted three times
within a week. Newman was first with
1394, which Davis improved the next
day to 1784. Then in Sydney Walter
Lindrum put up another dozen—and
1796 stands at present. The time may
yet come when we shall see Lin-
drum and co. forced to play blindfold
or with one hand tied behind their
backs ; or the example of the old freak
players might be followed and champions
forced to play with their noses instead of
a cue. The baulkline rules were
specially designed to hobble Walter,
and the substitution of nose for cue
would handicap him considerably, since
he is not liberally equipped in the matter
of conk.
* s': * *
“Blade”: A sign of the times is the
decision to hold the N.S.W. rowing cham-
pionships on the Nepean at Penrith —
all except the lightweight eights, which
will be rowed in Sydney. The Nepean
club will stage the champion fours on
December 19, and the Rowing Associa-
tion the champion eights, sculls—heavy-
weight and lightweight—and the light-
weight champion fours on the same
water on February 6.


Stay in the Centre
of MELBOURNE
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-
' •
Located beside Melbourne Town
Hall, the Victoria is Aus-
tralia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Un-
rivalled catering. Moderate
“Room' Only” tariff-—-Singles,
4/- to 7/C; Doubles, 8/—.to
16/- per day. Write Dept. B7
tor free illustrated booklet.
( ~){i£YU/w-
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT. COLLI NS ST. MELB.C.I.
AUSTRALIA'S LARCEST NON-LICENSED HOTEL
FORTY-FIRST ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW,
Australia’s Greatest Stud and Sheep Exhibition
17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th JUNE, 1936,
to be held on the SYDNEY SHOWGROUND.
Conducted by the N.S.W. SHEEPUREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
JUDGING WILL COMMENCE :
Merinos, Corriedales, Romney Marsh, Border Leicesters, \ 10 a.m.,
Sontlldowns, Dorset Horns, Ryelands, Fat Sheep. i Wednesday, 17th June.
Continuation of above breeds. 1
Grand Champions—Merino Ram and Ewe,
The “STONEHAVEN CUP, - ’ for the best exhibit of five 1 1() am
Merino Sheep. ! Thursday' 18th June.
NOVICE SHEEP DOG TRIAL. J
Display of Grand Champions. Champions, Class Winners, ]
and review of Exhibition.
“Country Life” Newspaper Junior and Senior Judging |
. Competitions 0.30 a.m. |
SHEEP DOG TRIAL 10 a.m. |
Auction Sales Stud and Flock Sheep—Border Leicesters, Friday, 19tli June,
Southdowns and Dorset Horns 10 a.m. i
OFFICIAL BANQCET 1 p.m. |
OFFICIAL OPENING CEREMONY by the Right |
Honourable J. A. Lyons, M.P., Prime Minister of |
Australia • ■} P-m. !
Display of Grand Champions, Champions, Class Winners 1
and review of Exhibition L Saturday 20th June.
OPEN AND FINAL SHEEP DOG TRIALS (commenc- |
ing at 10 a.m., finishing at 5 p.m.) J
Judging of Cattle and Kelpie Dogs from 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.
ADMISSION: Adults, 25.; Children. 6d. Grandstands Free.
Motor-cars owned by members of the Association and Royal Agricultural Society
of N.S.W., FREE. G. C. SOMERVILLE. Secretary.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Fixed Trusts
Australia has its own examples of
investment trusts. Were’s, National
Reliance and one or two others were
cos. specially formed for this purpose a
little while before the beginning of the
depression. Other reputable concerns, like
Standard Trust, Howard, Ltd. (Brisbane),
and most life and fire insurance offices
have from time to time invested so
much of their idle capital in enterprises
outside their original scope of activities
that they have become semi-investment
companies. Then there were the Mc-
Arthur cos.; but the less said about them
from an investment point of view the
better.
The idea of spreading one’s holdings
in companies, bonds, etc., through co-
operative investment schemes has not
taken hold in the Commonwealth
to the same extent as it has in the Old
Country. Possibly the late lure of the
gold sharemarket (which proved largely
a delusion) and the more recent striking
recovery in industrial ordinary-share
prices have encouraged individual rather
than co-operative sharemarket dealings
among investors and speculators. In any
case, though a portfolio of well-chosen
investments bought by an investment co.
in Australia two or three years ago
would show a remarkable market profit
to-day, no new investment trusts have
been formed in recent years.
The investment trust which English
people came to be familiar with in pre-
depression years was usually financed
on ordinary shares, preference shares and
debentures. Most trusts had some of
each class of capital. A recent compi-
lation of the figures of 71 investment
trusts showed total debenture capital at
£55,000,000, preference at £39,000,000
and ordinary at £29,000,000. The deben-
ture and pref. money is an advantage
to ord. shareholders when gross returns
from investments are above the cost of
this class of capital; a drag when the
average return on capital falls below it.
Since 1931 a new type of investment
pool has become popular in Britain—it
was first tried in the U.S.A. —and Aus-
tralians are beginning to take an interest
in it. It is called a “fixed trust.” The
activities of such trusts in Britain became
so widely spread and the public had so
much at stake (about £50,000,000 at
present, in over 50 trusts, managed by 11
different groups) that the Board of Trade,
in March, appointed a committee to in-
quire into the movement. There are
definite attractions in the idea for in-
vestors, but without proper control there
are also dangers.
Generally, these trusts operate under
the supervision of a managing co.
with a capital of about £20,000,
and a trustee, the latter holding
the investments on behalf of certifi-
cate- or unit-holders, who represent the
sole proprietorship of the trust invest-
ments. The terms under which the
managership is carried out are defined
by a trust deed. There is usually a
limit to the duration of the trust ; if so,
at the end of the term the investment
portfolio is cashed in and the proceeds
split up among unit-holders. In the
meantime they are entitled to pro-rata
participation in earnings from the invest-
ments. Returns in many cases have been
attractive ; hence the popularity.
The committee investigating these
fixed trusts in England is under the
chairmanship of Sir Alan Anderson, a
director of the Bank of England, Suez
Canal Co. and other well-known con-
cerns. A questionnaire was sent to the
various trusts asking for information as
to formation, management and finances,
trustees’ and managers’ remuneration, and
details of trust deeds.
The committee is expected to deliver
its report towards the end of this month.
According to the “Financial Times,” any
special controlling legislation is regarded
as improbable. That journal says:
What, it is thought, is much more likely
is that the committee will recognise that
during the past six months the movement
has done everything possible to put its
house in order and prevent exploitation of
the public by undesirable elements, and
that it will recommend that all existing
and future trusts should be under control
of the association.
The association mentioned is one of fixed
trust managers, which requires its mem-
bers to issue satisfactory statements of
accounts, investments, expenses, etc.
A model and standardised trust deed,
which virtually represents the constitution
of these trusts, is expected to be one of
the principal results of the investigation.
“On’y four bob! It's blokes like youse Wot keeps a feller from getlin
enough together to turn honest !”
Wool and Japan
Wool manufacture has become one of
the smaller staple industries in Japan dur-
ing the last decade, to the immense bene-
fit of Australia. Out of 245,000,0001 b. of
wool bought last year, 230,000,0001 b.
came from the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. S’Africa’s share was small.
Two years ago, difficulties arose with
the Union in view of Japan’s favorable
trade balance. Despite a co-operative
purchasing system —almost unworkable
from the start because of currency diffi-
culties making S’African wool, in terms
of yen, considerably dearer than Austra-
lian and M.L. wool —the position hasn’t
much improved.
And, quite apart from price, S’Africa
could not replace Australia in the Japan-
ese market. Its whole clip is only a
fraction of Japanese requirements.
Neither could the Argentine help imme-
diately, though the S. American wool
industry is susceptible to consider-
able development, and, in five or ten
years, if Japan were to adjust its outlook
on types, the S. Americans might make
themselves the main source of supply.
Japan is faced with the alternatives of
ceasing to buy Australian wool and
allowing the industry to languish
or to buy irrespective of the trade bal-
ance. At worst, 14,000 operatives would
be thrown out of work, and companies,
of which the principal 25 have a paid
capital of about £8,000,000, would cease
to make the 15 p.c. profit which has been
their average over the past 10 years. It
is obvious that wool still bulks small in
the Japanese national textile economy
when it is realised that 230,000 opera-
tives are employed in silk-weaving.
The Japanese wool industry has been
built behind a high-fariff wall, and it is
essentially a local-consumption industry.
Exports of manufactured wool represent
only about 12j p.c. of raw material
imported. Most exports go to cheap
Asiatic markets under the control or
domination of the Japanese themselves.
It is idle to suggest that if they made
up their minds to it the Japanese could
not, or would not, do without Aus-
tralian wool. Wool is a recent Nip-
ponese luxury. Its usage has doubled in
five years. Before the war, raw wool
imported was only 20,000 bales p.a. The.
adoption of substitutes would make
enough work to absorb a large propor-
tion of those now employed in wool.
Much woollen machinery is adaptable to
the treatment of other textiles.
Increased wool usage has gone hand
in hand with Westernisation of costume
and habit. It merely needs an Im-
perial decree making a return to Japan-
ese national costumes and materials
compulsory and the country would very
soon adjust itself to the new con-
ditions at Australia’s expense. More
difficult feats than that have been
achieved by decree, time and time again.
And there are other weapons in the
Japanese trade armory besides quotas or
prohibitions. What would be the effect
on next season’s greasy wool prices if
a buying pool were organised, prevent-
ing the keen competition between indi-
vidual manufacturers which has always
been a Japanese buying feature of our
market, and if the combination were to
set an official price limit on purchases?
Certainly, in a full season such as the
next one promises to be, the reaction
on world prices would be enough to
make the Australian woolgrower feel
savage when he thinks of politicians.
Broken Hill Prop, shares mounted
strongly last week, rising to 70s. in Mel-
bourne at one stage. It has been a won-
derful stock for recent investors. From
12s. or thereabouts during the worst of
the depression (shareholders went without
divs. for three years) it has recovered to
its present place in the market, and that
after increasing issued capital by
£2,243,854 during last year. Steel output
for the term ended May 31 was up
approximately 20 p.c. on the previous
period. On a 12y p.c. div. basis the yield
at 70s. is 3.6 p.c. There are great pros-
pects, too. A large part of the capital
at the moment is unproductive. Aust.
Iron and Steel ord. shares (cost, 750,000
B.H.P. shares) are turning in nothing, and
the tinplate and a couple of other allied in-
dustries, aren’t yet contributing to the pool.
* *
Wheat continued dull last week, fetch-
ing 3s. 6d. a bushel on trucks Williams-
town. Wool sales are confined prin-
cipally to clearing up odd lots as the
end of the season approaches.
* * S: *
At a recent meeting of the Leeds
Chamber of Commerce a member pro-
duced a bundle of Japanese clothing that
was being freely bought by operatives
in British cotton mills owing to the very
cheapness of the articles, and thus help-
ing to put the English workers themselves
out of jobs. A resolution was passed
“viewing with grave concern the increas-
ing trade of Japan with British
Dominions.” What about the trade with
Leeds and Leicester? The member men-
tioned that boys’ shirts (Japanese) at Is.
each and raincoats at 3s. 6d. were being
bought in those cities. A serious menace
to British industry no doubt. But Aus-
tralia at least has a tariff protection that
prohibits such dumping here. So why
not let Britain itself risk a little unpopu-
larity with the Japs in regard to re-
strictions and prohibitions, and not thrust
all the responsibility on the Dominions?
If Japanese bidding is withdrawn from
our wool sales, Yorkshire and European
buyers may be expected to drive hard
bargains.
* * * *
Colonel White and others have spoken
in horrified tones about the overcapi-
talisation of the Australian cement in-
dustry. Has it ever occurred to these
Canberra gentlemen that Lancashire and
Yorkshire textile industries are also over-
capitalised, only more so? Thousands
of spindles and looms have been rational-
ised —that is, deliberately laid up. It isn t
just a matter of labor costs. Countries
of recent development often have more
modern plant. And that is one of the
hardships that go hand-in-hand with
scientific progress.
In Melbourne last week:
Goldsbrough, Mort declared a final div. of
5 p.c., making 7 p.c. for the year (up 1 p.c.).
Central Nell Gwynne touched 395. follow-
ing reports of another improved yield. It is a
speculative show, but current earnings are good.
Another shilling div. is coming shortly.
. Tallow fell below £2O a ton, the lowest
quote for many years. It is a flighty cpm-
modity, at present sensitive to Japanese buying.
Australasian Paper £1 ords. weakened to
345., yielding 4.7 p.c. on the present div. basis.
Return is attractive and prospects reasonably
good.
Australian Cement shares slipped back to
28s. 6d., which is close to the lowest level
reached since the duties were interfered with.


V-8 Trucks Create Record
A quarry master writes: "After experience with
every means of transport, I consider Ford V-8
Trucks the best we have ever used. They carry 5
yards of stone and each shifts 15 yards per day
more than our previous best." Ford V-8 Trucks will
also save time and money for you. Ask your nearest
Ford dealer to arrange an "on-the-job" test. Features
include: V-8 cylinder Truck-type engine; Full-floating
rear axle; Straddle mounted pinion; Heavy-duty
clutch and Transmission; Safety Glass windscreen.
Easy and convenient purchase terms arranged.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V 8 TRUCKS
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
F7l 10. C
CAN YOU WRITE 100
WORDS OF HUMOUR
FOR RADIO?
5/3 will be paid for any
funny story used in the
2 C H “Contributed
Comedy” session on
Thursdays at 7.45 p.m.
Enclose stamped
addressed envelope for
return of unused con-
tributions.
STATION 2CH,
GRACE BIT ELDING,
YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A BATCH FEEDING
DEVICE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24251/25 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its'rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
The Scott Imperial
ALL WAVE FULL RANGE
High Fidelity Combination
A few of the numerous features are: —
Triple speakers.
Up to 50 watts undistorted output. Frequency
response flat from 30 to 16,000 cycles.
All wave, 13 to 550 metres.
Automatic record-changer takes up to 10
records.
Double automatic volume control.
Timing-metre amplifier.
Base control which does not affect treble.
Selectivity variable from 2kc. to 16kc.
Sensitivity control.
Usable sensitivity 0.6 microvolt.
Five years’ guarantee.
Price complete, £295, including full spare set
of valves.
For further details apply Sole Distributors:
OTTO SAN DEL LTD.
73 York Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 2028-9-0.
Telegrams and Cables:
“Ottosandel, Sydney.”
m w r
w , w& y . •
0: y
1111
mmm
mmwm
rnrnmm
k
ij
So&*
■V&
nr
*jO
WINTER
tf>°* CRUISING HOLIDAYS
What greater change from everyday affairs than leaving
the land ? Nothing to do but rest and play and tell your
steward what you want. . . and while you are enjoying
these healthy, care-free days you will come to places and
see sights that are as different from those of your daily
life as chalk from cheese. The sooner you secure accom-
modation the longer the period of pleasant anticipation.
PAPUA, ORAM A,* EARLY JULY
FIJI, ORF O R D,f LATE AUGUST
* Via Great Barrier Reef. First Saloon Only,
t First Saloon and Tourist Class.
ORIENT LINE CRUISES
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
“Newsleuth”: The Vic. Commissioner
of Taxes has raised the executors’ valua-
tion of the Sidney Myer estate from
£922,312 to £1,548,421. The execu-
tors are appealing, and as the bulk
of the assets consists of shares in
Myer Investments Ply., Ltd. (as distinct
from the Myer Emporium, Ltd.), it is
expected that a definite method of valua-
tion of shares in proprietary companies
will result. At present there are two
methods of valuing such shares, one de-
pending upon the backing in assets which
each share has, the other based upon
the dividend-paying capacity of the com-
pany in association with its earnings,
Sidney Myer held 722,434 shares in
Myer Investments ; the executors valued
them at 15s. per share, the Commissioner
at £1 12s. 4d. So the amount in dispute
is a mere £626,109.
* * *
The U.S.A. had something coming to
it over the one-way trade balance with
this country—it could have helped us
considerably with our wines, and also
with tallow. There is room to com-
promise yet. But while the British pref-
erential tariff has been consistently
whittled down for the last two years
now, allowing such unnecessary imports
as rubber tyres and tubes, woollen tex-
tiles, cement, etc., to come into this coun-
try, we find it necessary to bring in
measures to restrain imports from Japan
—imports which are small compared with
our exports to that country. Despite all
palaver to the contrary, the duties and
restrictions are designed to cut down our
Japanese purchases—the Canberra Gov-
eminent wouldn’t have invited the retalia-
tion now expected for something that
was going to mean a mere trifle. Aus-
trahan manufacturers needn’t look upon
this policy ’ as something done specially
for them. The Lyons Government has
been entirely unsympathetic in its pre-
vious tariff-slashing programme.
* * * *
Lancefield, the Beria (W.A.) gold show
(and a div.-payer), has had a revival in
its shares following a long period of
market uncertainty and depression. The
4s. shares, down to Bs. 6d. in April, sold
to jqs. 6d. last week. It is one of the
f ew stocks to date that have staged such a
come back. For the last half of 1935 a
working profit of £62,414 was»reported ;
for the first f our months of 1936 a work-
j ng sur p] us G f £45,459 is shown. Re-
coveries are improving, and the mine is
open i n g U p well at depth,
* * * *
_ „ ■ • A , , .
“K.D. ; Civil servants who a _ a
P -C> or P-. c ’ in dark days
of the depression when the bond-
holder, mortgagee and bank depositor
each had his income cut by 224- p.c.,
and the ordinary shareholder in some
cases lost his altogether wouldn’t
have a great deal to complain about if
they ha d had no restorations to date,
But most of them have had part of the
cut re stored. So far as money-wages are
concerned, the Commonwealth Statis-
tician reckons that basic-wage earners
draw about 18 p.c. less than in 1928, but
the buying-power of those wages is actu-
auy a trifle higher. The civil servant
su bject to a cut of only 10 p.c. (on his
i 9 28 standard) is therefor© on velvet,
jhe rank and file of railwaymen did
su jf er extra-heavy cuts. But even here
t he average for Australia is over £4 a
W eek.
* * * „.
, .. .
A. E. Kavanagh, managing director ol
Protected Fixed Trusts, addressing the
Chartered Accountants’ Students Society
in London recently, said that necessary
restrictions and control should be im
posed on the fixed-trust movement as
quickly as possible, and that reasonable
supervision would be welcomed. Figures
showe d that the bulk of the money in-
vested came from small investors who
otherwise wouldn’t have touched Stock
Exchange securities, but would have put
their money into a savings bank or build-
ing soc iety. Stock Exchange objections
were therefore unjustified even from a
self-interested viewpoint. Last year
£25,000,000 was put into these trusts in
England.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
• Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Show Boat”
This screen version of Edna Ferber’s
novel has a strong cast. Musically it has
been strengthened by the inclusion of
Paul Robeson ; it is a pity that he is
restricted to one solo (“OP Man River”—
splendidly sung) and a duet. The photo-
graphy is crystal-clear and the settings
are beautiful, especially in the early
sequences.
Captain Andy Hawks (Charles Win-
mnger) runs a Mississippi showboat, and
when his two leading players leave he
promotes daughter Magnolia (Irene
Dunne) to lead. Gaylord Ravenal (Allan
Jones), a river gambler with a flair for
acting, makes a timely arrival to play
opposite Magnolia. They fall in love,
and marry against the wish of her mother
(Helen Westley).
Ravenal tires of acting and returns
to gambling. When their daughter Kim
Leslie Banks in “The Tunnel,” coming to
Sydney Embassy.
is born, he takes them to Chicago, but
after a brief spin of good luck he goes
broke and abandons them. Magnolia re-
sumes her old career ; under her father’s
guidance she becomes a staj, and daugh-
ter Kim follows in her footsteps. Final
sequence is Kim’s successful stage debut,
with Cap’n Andy, his wife and Magnolia
in attendance. They meet Ravenal, now
a stagedoor-keeper. Follows reunion of
husband and wife.
The best performance is given by
Charles Winninger as the old showman.
Irene Dunne uses her lyric soprano well;
Allan Jones warbles love songs in a pleas-
ant tenor and acts the handsome weak-
ling convincingly. Paul Robeson displays
a good sense of humor in conjunction with
his scolding but affectionate wife (Hattie
McDaniel), while Helen Westley demon-
strates the art of changing a winning
smile into a forbidding scowl in a split
second. And Jerome Kern’s music is
tuneful. Previewed at Sydney Liberty.
“You May Be Next!”
It would be far harder for a racketeer
to “jamb” a radio station and soak it
for 150,000 dahlars than is represented
in this film. Nevertheless the sequences
are worked out logically enough, result-
ing in a fast-moving story which makes
reasonably good entertainment.
Neil Bennett (Lloyd Nolan), chief en-
gineer for a radio station, passes his boss
one for a disparaging reference to the
radio voice of Fay Stevens (Ann
Sothern), a cafe singer. Neil is sacked.
He shows a wave-jambing invention to
Fay’s employer, Beau Gardner (Douglass
Dumbrille). Beau grabs the machine,
kidnaps Neil and then begins hi-jacking
the broadcasting co., using Neil’s name.
Follows a hue-and-cry for the supposed
culprit, but after much excitement the
real villain is brought to heel and true
love is rewarded.
Douglass Dumbrille makes his
(approx.) 150th consecutive appearance
as a super-gangster whose innocent-look-
ing cafe covers his nefarious activities.
As in the previous (approx.) 149, he is
convincing. Lloyd Nolan and Ann
Sothern play the romantic parts effort-
lessly. At Sydney State.
“The Three Godfathers”
Peter B. Kyne’s story has been trans-
ferred to the screen with few alterations
—a little mild love interest has been in-
serted and, with a newly-born infant an
obvious difficulty, a year-old baby has
been substituted.
It is the tale of Three Bad Men who
shoot up a bank and bolt with the loot
across the desert. Half-way over they
come upon a dead man. Near by his
wife is dying in a covered wagon. She
implores them to save the lusty infant,
and “Doc” (Lewis Stone), a tough but
well-educated old battler with a “lung,”
promises.
The Bad Men make back towards New
Jerusalem, scene of their depredations,
“Doc” carrying the baby. When he
cashes in he hands the infant on to Gus
J Walter Brennan), the other old-timer.
Gus gives the last of his water to the
baby, leaves a note and wanders off. Bob
Sangster (Chester Morris), gruff, hard
and unwilling, at first starts off to aban-
don the baby, but Goodness triumphs,
and he makes the town just before drop-
ping dead.
It is a story calculated to wring the
heart of a hard-boiled humanity—and
it succeeds. Women will adore the lovely
baby, and will weep copiously over the
sublime immolation of the Bad Men.
Absence of mock heroics saves the film,
which moves at a brisk tempo, from be-
coming maudlin. Lewis Stone, Walter
Brennan (who adds the humor) and
Chester Morris are admirably cast as
the three Good Bad Men. At Sydney
Civic.
“Kind Lady”
An ingenious Hugh Walpole plot and
some able character acting combine to
make this capital entertainment.
Hypnotic influence is the theme. Mary
Herries (Aline McMahon), a wealthy
Richard Dix in “The Tunnel.”
middle-aged spinster and art connoisseur,
lives with her maid and cook. She be-
friends Henry Abbott (Basil Rathbone),
who professes to be a starving painter.
When his undernourished-looking “wife”
collapses with her baby, she takes the
family in. Soon Abbott becomes in-
sufferably arrogant, and when the cook
leaves and the maid threatens to go
Mary orders the family to get out. They
refuse, and then commences the will-sap-
ping influence.
Abbott brings in a family of his “rela-
tives” as servants, and a “doctor.” When
the maid discovers what is afoot
she is murdered. As Mary’s rela-
tives believe she is travelling abroad
the gang, of whom Abbott is leader,
attempts to dispose of the valuable paint-
ings, in the meantime keeping the broken
spinster under duress and forcing her to
sign papers. Their efforts are at fruition
point when a fortuitous meeting of
Mary’s relatives leads to a nephew visit-
ing the house. His suspicions are aroused,
and Nemesis quickly overtakes the
C. Aubrey Smith in “The Tunnel.”
criminals in a thrilling finale. Epilogue
shows Mary again restored to normal,
with due celebrations.
Aline McMahon gives as neat a piece
of acting as could be wished for—her
portrayal of a nervously-broken woman
is masterly. Basil Rathbone’s long, aris-
tocratic nose, sneering mouth and pre-
cise speech were made for the part of
Abbott. Minor roles are also filled cap-
ably. Also at Sydney Civic.
“The Great Impersonation”
Adaptation of the Oppanheim story
makes an exciting film. Fewer purple
patches would have added to its merit.
Sir Everard Dominey and Leopold von
Ragenstein (Edmund Lowe), doubles
and old schoolmates, meet in East Africa
early in 1914, the former a big-game
hunter in self-imposed exile, the latter
representative of a munitions magnate.
The German plans to murder the Eng-
lishman and take his place in England so
as to further his employer’s schemes. But
Dominey overhears the plot, beats the
German to the killing and, as Von Ragen-
stein, is accepted without question by
the unscrupulous trafficker in arms. Then,
as the pseudo Dominey, he goes home
and is thereby enabled on the outbreak
of war to scotch a plan for the destruc-
tion of England’s munition plants. There
is some domestic by-play between
Dominey, his supposedly demented wife
(who looks remarkably sane), and a
hatred-soaked retainer. The purplish
tints have been slapped on clumsily with
some blood-chilling and redundant
screams and an allegedly horrific Black
Bog.
Edmund Lowe handles the dual roles
with ease, and Valerie Hobson, as his
wife, is satisfactory. Murray Kinnell is
sufficiently sinister as the chief agent of
the munition maker. At Sydney Capitol.
“Stormy”
This film is worth seeing if only for
the magnificence of its setting—
Colorado’s Painted Desert. There are
some fine shots, too, of hundreds of wild
horses stampeding in a canyon. Plot
isn’t outstanding, but it has been well
handled in direction and acting.
“Stormy” (Noah Beery, jun.),a homeless
wanderer, is befriended by Trinidad Dorn
(J. Farrell McDonald), a ranch-owner.
A mutual love of horses quickly breeds
friendship and affection. The machina-
tions of Deem Dorn (Fred Kohler), who
covets his brother's range on which Trini-
dad lets wild horses run wilder, lead to
plenty of action, with “Stormy” and
Kerry (Jean Rogers), Deem’s daughter,
allied against her villainous father. Rex,
“Stormy’s” handsome colt, materially
assists, and the bad men finally bite the
dust. Dust is plentiful.
Noah Beery, jun., who strikingly re-
sembles Wallace, of that ilk, manages
his role with the aplomb of a veteran.
His equally youthful co-star, Jean Rogers,
is delightfuly natural as well as a balm
to the eye. J. Farrell McDonald, as a
philosophic horse-lover, is in his element,
and Fred Kohler plots with a sullen mien.
Also at Sydney Capitol.
“A Tale of Two Cities”
This film, already praised on this page,
appealed to The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic, who saw it at the Metro, as a
triumph of casting.
Memories of Martin Harvey’s silent
film “The Only Way” and of the many
great-lover parts played by Ronald
Colman combine to put the latter very
much on his mettle in the role of Sydney
Carton, but he comes through with flying
colors in what is probably the best work
of his career.
It is hard to recognise the former
flappers’ idol in the dissipated, shabby,
brilliant wastrel who conforms so
closely to one’s conception of the
Dickens hero, with his supreme con-
tempt for his fellow-men and no less for
himself.
Elizabeth Allen is a lovable Lucie, and
Donald Woods as Charles Darnay is the
typical Dickens juvenile lead.
Basil Rathbone as the Marquis St.
Evremonde, with his incisive tone and
aristocratic lift of the eyebrows, would
have been sufficient excuse alone for the
Revolution (though his assassination pro-
duced as realistic a scream as has been
heard in a theatre).
Edna May Oliver’s Miss Pross recalls
and equals her Betsy Trotwood, and
Blanche Yurka as Madame Defarge,
knitting and plotting the destruction of
the Evremondes, gives an arresting study
of fanaticism.
Claude Gillingwater, the tall man with
the flowing chin, is a notable Jarvis
Edward Ellis in “The Lady Consents,”
coming to Sydney Plaza.
Lorry, though not quite the banker that
Dickens drew ; and Reginald Owen is a
blustering, conceited Stryver.
Minor roles —the revolutionaries, the
aristocrats, the Judges in the English
court scene —are realistically portrayed.
After seeing the handling of Dickens
characters in recent films one can even
contemplate the production of “Pick-
wick” with pleasurable anticipation.
Some First Nights
Eileen Joyce was the chief item on the
dish served up by Bernard Heinze and
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, in
conjunction with A.8.C., before the larg-
est audience that has crowded into the
Town Hall since the regrettable demise


Science Marches On!
ASTOR brings
a Batteryless . . . Troublefree Radio for
Home where no Electric Current i
the Country
5 available.
galled
m
m
ASTOR 77 DW
ĸ
An ordinary car accumulator which
only uses a total current of /./ amp is
required
NO B’ or C BATTERIES
Replacements costing 50/- each time now
avoided. Ordinary battery sets use about
135 volts. An altogether new power
system builds up the current from an
ordinary car accumulator to high voltage
(200 volts) to provide a ‘B’ and ‘C supply
equal to that of an all-electric radio,
thus ensuring—
All-Electric TONE, VOLUME,
SELECTIVITY and DISTANCE
‘FERROCART’ IRON CORE COUPLING
SYSTEM Selectivity equal to finest 7-valve
receivers. Distant stations easily separated from
strong local stations.
Delayed Automatic Volume Control . . . Illumin-
ated Dial with stations marked —automatically
switched off when not tuning, thereby saving
battery current . . . Tone Control . . . Magnificent
Cabinet of latest design with Inclined Tuning Panel.
MODEL, 77, D
35 Guineas.
MODEL 77
30 Guineas.
,-W. (Overseas Reception).
With 0-volt accumulator.
(Australian Reception),
With 0-volt accumulator.
Mickey Grand
TWO NEW ASTOR 136 ALL-ELECTRIC MODELS:
.... £l4/19/6. Model 190, 7-valve Dual-wave .... 33 Guineas.
Sole New South Wales Distributors;
Mick Simmons Ltd.
714-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Smith, Sons & Rees Ltd
30-42 WENTWORTH AVENUE,
SYDNEY.
of Fritz Hart’s “pops.” Saint-Saens’
Concerto No. 2 in G Minor, Op. 22, con-
tains some long and complicated pas-
sages for the piano, but they weren’t too
long or complicated for the slim lady ;
the delicacy of her touch in the softer
moments was married to a beautiful firm-
“St. Paul’s, Cobbity,” by H. R. Gallop, at the Macleod
Gallery, Sydney.
ness and precision. There was a pro-
longed ovation, against which Prof.
Heinze had prepared an encore —the
recently-rediscovered Mozart rondo,
which a century ago was cut up into
sheets and sold separately to American
autograph hunters, being reconstructed
by a modern composer from two pages
which turned up by accident at the Brit-
ish Museum. It was doubtful if anybody
in the audience could have said which
was the original Mozart and which the
reconstruction which flowed so beauti-
fully from Miss Joyce’s fingers, and from
the instruments of the orchestra, in this
first performance in Australia.
Among the preceding items were the
Bach Concerto in G Major, of the Brand-
enburg half-dozen, admirably distilled by
the conductor out of violins, violas,
'cellos and bass; the “Haffner” sym-
phony of Mozart and the symphonic fan-
tasia, “Pohjola’s Daughter” of Sibelius.
The “Spanish Rhapsody” of Rimsky-Kor-
sakov contains so many scares for the ear
of the sensitive that the mind wandered
from the music while the eye, in defence
of the ear, watched those members of
the orchestra who were armed with
rattles and similar deafening apparatus.
George Butterworth’s rhapsody, “A
Shropshire Lad,” was rhapsodical in a
different manner. It ran wild in a world
of formless colors.
*l* ►!• -I- T*
Clement Hosking delved back into
Albion’s dim pre-Norman era for a col-
lection of quaint yet beautiful tunes when
the Sydney Folk-song Choir, which he
directed, gave a recital at the Savoy last
Wednesday. A widely-varied programme
ranged from stately Manx love songs to
rollicking sea chanties. Splendidly con-
trolled throughout, the choir was particu-
larly impressive in the melodious “Graih
My Chree” and in a spirited rendition of
the “Bulgham Sea Song and Invocation.”
Artistic restraint and excellent co-ordina-
tion marked the singing of a group of
ancient North of England airs. In bring-
ing to light these little-known “yet fine
traditional songs, Mr. Hosking is per-
forming good musical service.
“Kamate! Kamate!” and “Haere
Tonu,” two stirring Maori war songs,
were admirably suited to the big range
and satisfying timbre of Barend Harris’s
baritone.
Edith Lanser in some old English
rhymes, Roderick McAskill, who piped a
march, a reel and a strathspey, and the
Folk Dance Club, assisted. Jessie Web-
ster, Jean Read and Violet Kingston
Hewitt were able accompanists.
•J* 4*
Sentiment there is a-plenty in Martinez
Sierra’s drama “The Cradle Song,” pre-
sented at Sydney’s Kursaal Theatre under
Scott Alexander’s direction, but the senti-
ment is overshadowed by Sierra’s power-
ful re-creation of life in a Spanish con-
vent. A waif is adopted by the sisters —
such is the simple beginning. A gentle
humor knits the whole, and though the
denouement smacks of the melodramatic
it’s good melodrama. A capable cast was
headed by Millicent Monro, who spoke
her lines pleasantly and made every ges-
ture tell. Wilson Irving (as a convivial
doctor), Marjorie Stuart, Frieda Francis
and Nan Lowe also shaped well. In
“The Duchess and the Film Star,” which
followed the Spanish play, Agnes Cullen.
Erana Newbold and Pat Twohill figured
to advantage.
T *l* T T
The most striking show in Adelaide
lately has been a two-night performance
in an Anglican church. It was a pageant
procession to the altar, with banners,
punctuated by readings from the pulpit.
It worked up from “Our Lady” and the
Evangelists, in appropriate dress, to St.
Augustine and Edward the Confessor,
complete with monks. Thence to Richard
Johnson and
Samuel Marsden
of early Sydney,
C. B. Howard of
early Adelaide and
James Noble, “the
first aboriginal
clergyman.” After
that the procession
became more im-
aginative, working
through “the seven
Sacraments” to St.
George of Eng-
land.
4*
Whether Richard
11. was in reality
weak, bad, un-
balanced, tyranni-
cal, vain, unprin-
cipled or any other
of the adjectives
the history books use to describe
monarchs who failed in their task of pre-
serving order in an age when chaos ruled,
it is impossible fully to determine.
Gordon Daviot ignores all the evidence
when he makes the king a high-minded
idealist, fighting for principles which even
to-day find too few real adherents.
But the Gregan McMahon Players,
who produced “Richard of Bordeaux,”
at Melbourne King’s on Saturday, can-
not be blamed for the misconceptions of
the playwright and, within the limits im-
posed on them, they made of it a worthy
performance.
The character of Richard, highly-
strung, moody and bitterly opposed to the
war policy of his advisers, dominates the
play, and Ken Tuckfield acquitted him-
self admirably. His interpretation of the
king’s varying moods —his efforts to re-
strain his restless temper and his gradual
hardening with the years as his enemies
heaped indignities upon him—was worthy
of an actor with years more experience
than this young man has had.
Next to him ranked Frank Goddard
as the Earl of Arundel, greedy for re-
venge on France, and Douglass Elliot as
De Vere, Richard’s favorite. Lance
Nicholls was a good Bolingbroke (in the
playwright’s conception, if not in fact),
but Gloucester (Frank Desbrowe) was a
little too vehement, and Mowbray (Cuth-
bert Barrington) seemed a trifle conscious
of his finery. Others who stood out, in
a cast which showed very few signs of
amateurishness, were David Reid (De la
Pole), Alfred Whitley (Lancaster) and
Sibyl Porter (the Queen). Costuming
was excellent.
Current Artbursts
Paintings by the late Bernard Hall are,
with his collection of antiques, on exhi-
bition at Illawarra, Toorak, Melbourne.
The 46 pictures are examples of the aca-
demic technique of a careful artist who
never shunned difficult perspectives. His
skilfully-treated interiors convey the sig-
nificance of space in relation to distance ;
his figure studies are well executed con-
ceptions in paint, though the poses of
several models are puzzling to the spec-
tator. One hazards an impression that
Hall the draughtsman occasionally
usurped Hall the interpreter. Several
satisfying still-lifes are included, and to
complete the variety there are a few-
imaginative portraits such as “The Black
Domino.” The collection of antiques em-
braces old furniture, Bokhara rugs,
Chinese porcelains, Japanese prints,
pewter, silver and pottery of many
periods and countries —pieces gathered
during a long span of years by a sincere
artist who appreciated the work of
mastercraftsmen.
*l* *!* *l*
The average citizen comes away from
Adrian Lawlor’s exhibition at Melbourne
Athenaeum with a feeling of bewilder-
ment. Mr. Lawlor seems to have ideas
that are worth conveying, but his medium
of expression, bright colors and his own
emotional reactions don’t make a con-
structive whole. Though he plays about
with thick lines to emphasise edges,
he has splashed two vivid red patches
upon the cheeks of a dead-white
face, and he has made such an
anthropological exaggeration of “Sophis-
ticated Lady” that the unfortunate
woman has no head at all above the eye-
brows. He is obviously interested in the
art of painting, but is he hiding behind
one of his own purple trees making faces
at the rest of the world?
John Rowell, one of Australia’s estab-
lished artists, is holding an exhibition of
oil paintings at the Fine Arts Gallery,
Melbourne. Rowell’s work is noticeable
for its high average quality, lack of affec-
tation and absence of superficial man-
nerisms. Most of his pictures are out-
of-doors studies of hills, bush and gum-
trees, subjects with which he feels,
familiar and treats aptly in relation to
light. A portrait of Frank Tate is too
realistic to please most critics ; a canvas
depicting a young horsewoman is
more satisfying—it has plenty of charac-
ter, and both horse and rider stand out
well against the background. In “Ski-
ing” the artist with greys and whites gets
a feeling of speed ; in “Ski Run” his in-
troduction of vivid splashes of colored
ski-ing clothes helps the impression of
distance. “The Dancer” is another essay
in which bright colors make a responsive
vehicle of expression. The closing date
is June 13.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
v
33-
■ 71
mm
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
k
PEOPLE STAY at PETTY’S
in SYDNEY...
Visitors to Sydney choose Petty's lor many
reasons. They appreciate its central position;
they like the comfort, the service, and the
cuisine. And the moderate tariff: Room and
Breakfast from 11/6. Inclusive from 18/-. Wire
or write for reservations-
PETTY'S
HOTEL York Sf. Sydney.
EDWARD YOI XGS,
Manager.
A WOM AN'S y’c
LETTER
The band from H.M.A.S. Canberra
flung gladsome notes into the blue day.
Admirals arrived, so did generals, in full
regalia. Admiralty House, awakened
from the sleep of retirement, purred
happily. This was the sort of thing she
had been used to —happy days were here
again.
The Governor-General had 10 officers,
among them the young Earl of Ranfurly,
in glittering uniforms attending him when
he handed out the New Year honors and
decorations. Poinsettia and tall white
lilies looked on from high pottery jars in
ballroom and drawing-room, and bowls
of red flowers were thrown into relief by
the cool, blue walls. Mrs. Ella Wharton
Kirke, Mrs. Charlotte Wills and Mrs.
Ellen Kinchington were the only three
women to be decorated. They were all
in the M.B.E. class.
Kings were kings in the good old days.
As long as their heads and their bodies
coincided, their torsos flaunted the
richest of brocades, the most brilliant of
scarlet cloaks. The Broughton cen-
tenary pageant showed all their pomp,
from William the Conqueror onwards.
Coeur de Lion, in his shining mail, stirred
the imagination most of all as he strode
up the middle of the Town Hall sur-
rounded by Crusaders. Mrs. C. V. Baily,
who produced the pageant, had planned
an effective stage background. This was
in design a Gothic window, beyond which
blue sky could be seen. As the St. Pat-
ricks, the Augustines and the a Beckets
of the earlier part of the pageant stepped
down to the stage they posed for a
moment in the Gothic frame, giving
the impression of a stained-glass window.
The second part of the pageant dealt with
the less pictorial but more toward his-
tory of the Anglican Church in Australia.
The King’s School, Parramatta, was
gala on Saturday for the garden-party
which was the final social junketing of
the Bishop Broughton centenary celebra-
tions. This brought archbishops, bishops,
canons and deans to the historic school
founded by Bishop Broughton in 1831.
Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll, with head-
master Padre C. T. Parkinson and Mrs.
Parkinson, stood at the school entrance
to greet the 1200 guests. The school
chapel was crowded for the short ser-
vice that preceded the wandering about
the schoolways and the tea served in
the school dining-hall on trestle tables.
The bloodhound instinct was aroused
at the Authors and Artists’ Ball by
having to guess what old friends in real
life masqueraded behind the make-up of
old friends in literature and art. Mary
Gilmore and Ethel Turner, however,
came as themselves, and were sur-
rounded all night by admirers. Presi-
dent of the Fellowship of Australian
Writers Man-Shy Davison came free
of literary suggestion, and brought his
wife and sister Dulcie.
President of the ball Mrs. Norman
Lowe came as Mary Edwards’s portrait
of Nellie Stewart as Nell Gwyn. The
costume was rich in powder-blue velvet
and old-rose brocade, and a hat of out-
size brim positively dizzy with curled
ostrich-feather fronds. Josephine Marks,
who had been organising secretary,
beamed on the crowded and happy Blax-
land Galleries from under a headdress
such as the proud princess in “Aida”
might wear. Here came the Waybacks,
and the Rudds, and a plot in search of
an author ; Mrs. Ivy Moore was a vivid
and dignified Lady of Old Castile, with
high carved comb, castinets and bright
shawl, romantic with red roses. Mar-
jorie Quinn represented her own poem,
“Nasturtiums,” and poetess Nellie Evans
was a daughter of Spain.
Flora Eldershaw had the pleasure of
seeing a set from The Bulletin prize
novel A House Is Built (written by
her and Miss Barnard) awarded a first
place among the sets taken from Aus-
tralian novels. The Bertie Kellys arrived
v ' /I | b . a party after dining with the
Admiral Lane-Pooles in H.M.A.S. Can-
b^. rra - short, the night was a fellow-
-BJP.„ F.A.W. secretar Y
.Henry sat beside Mrs. “Bill”
a , tbe official table smiling happily, but
almost wordless with laryngitis.
Aitist Chailie Biyant was one of the
Bma . oompany that voyaged out from
Belfast in the Kanimbla. Mcllwraith,
Me Each am had given him the commis-
si°n to paint the ship, and as she left
Belfast in the early dawn the atmo-
spherics were all to the good as far as
his artistic soul was concerned. The
voyage was a good one and the ship so
steady that Charlie, who worked hard
at his painting all the way over, was able
to work on deck putting in the rigging,
The ship is all inlaid with Australian
w ,? o(^ s .’ chiefly notable for the air
shining brightness that pervades it.
Asked the most impressive incident of
* ae voyage the artist declared it was
P as smg the barque Pamir in full sail,
In the Kanimbla’s broadcasting opera-
tor, Eileen Foley (a Sydneyite), Mr.
Bryant met an old friend with whom he
had travelled on the Katoomba and the
Karoola during Eileen’s days as ship’s
pianist.
The Manl ar(is , has once . w
the buHVe wilh the R , Ac ‘ d
and shows , wo jct h f y o j
the B of St- Ives, a study in silver
to and one ( £ ud y Hi|l To .
morrow night he - s t 0 be b we | comed at a
, corroboree in the Man| Art
G a ]j ery *
Th. ls 18 Norma Parker, the Westralian
wao 18 now deep in her duties as almoner
at Vincent s. Norma is liking her
job and proving a success in it. Mont-
gomery-Dunh photograph.
The Dante Alighieri Society fare-
welled Minister for Education Drum-
mond in the right spirit. Also, there was
special wine in ice-buckets decorating
the lunch-tables at Romano’s. In this
the healths of the King of England and
the King of Italy were honored before
president Bertie Kelly launched into his
speech, one of the best he has delivered
at these lunches. The guest made his
reply in a resonant tone and clear dic-
tion. Between the two it was decided
that goodwill between nations was the
olive-tree to be cultivated. Italy’s Consul-
General was there with his wife, who
was snugly tailored, small-hatted and be-
furred. Mrs. Bertie Kelly brought her
son and daughter-in-law, the Tom
Kellys; the Bentivoglios were present,
telling the latest news of Marie, still in
New York ; Lute Drummond had a word
with Mrs. and Miss Drummond, who also
are on the wing.
The Blaxland Galleries housed this
year’s at-home of St. Vincent’s nurses.
It is an annual affair, and the money
goes to the hospital building fund. The
most dewy of midwinter roses, violets,
pansies, poinsettia came to the dance in
fragrant masses, one of the inducements
being a table-decoration competition.
The table at which president Dr. J. J.
Woodburn and Dr. and Mrs. M. J. Slat-
tery entertained was a riot of red carna-
tions warmed up with chillis and frapped
with Iceland poppies. Mrs. Slattery’s
frocking was a nocturne in black and
silver.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was the guest of
honor, and did the occasion proud. The
moire of her coat was Patou-pink to
match her frock, and was collared in
sable. Nor was Dr. Constance D’Arcy
without honor in the dress stakes. An
ermine coat kept company with her
sleek-as-seal and fine-as-chiffon black
velvet. Dr. John Tansey’s wife glittered
like moonbeams around the flat collar
of her violet chiffon dress, and in her
hair she wore a bunch of fresh violets ;
from Brisbane came the lily-of-the-valley
worn by Miss M. Watkins on her black
velvet frock. Deep-red roses glowed on
the table at which she, the Dan Carrolls
and the F. J. Davys sat.
Mrs. G. A. Scott, wife of the new
captain-superintendent of Garden Island,
is pleased with her new home. Fresco.
The gardens and the view of that old
Elizabeth Bay house must charm any-
one with an instinct for beauty. Besides,
gardening happens to be one of Mrs.
Scott’s hobbies. Motoring is another,
and the symphony orchestra promoters
will be glad to hear she is a music-lover.
Two sons are in England ; David is in
a motoring firm, and Peter goes to sea
in September. Fresco will be the home
of Captain and Mrs. Scott for two years.
The dance of The King’s School Old
Boys’ Union promises to be one of the
season’s best. This is largely due to the
girls who are helping on the committee.
Nancy Hicks in this Dayne photograph
is acting as treasurer. Blaxland Galleries
and June 19 are the place and date.
For the past 10 years the Home Ball
has been one of the big efforts of Jewry
to help the funds of the Moses Monte-
fiore home at Waverley. This year the
ball was such a success that the first
glance at David Jones’s ballroom made
one think that nobody could have stayed
at home. There were a thousand dancers
or more; there was the Mayoress in
flowing Parma-violet chiffons ; there were
10 little white-clad debs, presented to her
by Mrs. M. J. Lester, who wore her wed-
ding frock of rose-white satin. Twelve
small pupils of Frances Scully danced
a “Blue Danube” ballet, and stood
poised, an airy fairy guard of honor, for
the passing of the debs.
The official party was great in
numbers and rich in dressing. The Harry
Lesnies were the hosts ; Mrs. Lesnie, presi-
dent of the ball committee, wore a match-
ing coatee with her magnolia-pink lace
frock. Mrs. David Cohen cloaked her
periwinkle-blue crepes in summer ermine.
The black frock worn by Barbara Phillips
was very long ; her white fur coat was
short. Marjorie Parkes, who came with
her Mayoress auntie, caped her flowered
chiffons with white velvet; poinsettia-
red chiffons flowed about Dr. Fanny
Reading; silver-greys were Mrs. John
Goulston’s choice.
Her looks belying the 73 years she
claims. Dr. E. Cora Hind stepped off
the Otranto last week, and still doesn’t
look a day worse, although since her
arrival she has had a Town Hall recep-
tion and an Institute of Journalists’
lunch. Miss Hind’s degree of doctor of
law is an honorary title ; she has been
for 34 years agricultural editor of the
“Winnipeg Free Press,” Canada. The
year’s trip the doctor is taking is the
usual busman’s holiday that press people
indulge in. Her intention is to visit
every grain-producing country in the
world. Already the British Isles, Europe,
South Africa, Egypt and India have been
ticked off by that keen eye and brain.
The doctor will be in Australia for two
months.
Authors and artists evidently do not
count bridge-playing as one of their
accomplishments. At the bridge party
to help their ball expenses the tables were
almost entirely manned or “womaned"
by the socially-minded. However, sculp-
tor Theo Cowan, novelist Jeanie Ranken
and Marjorie Quinn (the last was one of
the organisers of the success) represented
the arts. One tall male ballad-monger
sat in a corner and played happily, but
modestly declined to have his name pub-
lished. Mrs. Norman Lowe, president of
the ball, and Miss Josephine Marks, its
organising secretary, were strong sup-
ports. When the ultimate shilling was
raked in the Cause netted over £lO.
Dr. Agnes McFadden and barrister
John Gould have made a fine thing of
their dramatising of the Quest of the
Holy Grail from Malory’s Morte
d’Arthur. This will be produced in the
Great Hall of the University in July,
when Arthur’s Court will blaze against
an arras arabesqued with heraldic de-
signs. This will provide the “wings”
whereby the knights will depart on their
high adventures. Tall King Arthur has
a Queen Guenever that he overtops just
by an inch or two. Her robes will be of
sparkling blue and silver. A chorus of
ladies-in-waiting and young knights tell
the narrative, much in the style of the
Greek play, but in moments of drama
the Launcelots, the Percivals, the Lionels
and the Galahads speak for themselves.
The best-remembered dress of last
week’s round was a sheath in dull-white
crepe. This had zigzags of diamente and
shoulder streamers that fell in graceful
loops, the other end of the loops being
fastened to the arms just above the elbow
with wide bands of diamente reminiscent
of the slave bracelet.
A procession of the best evening coats
streams nightly into the Royal to see
“Three Men on a Horse.” One regal-
looking cape seeking the stalls last week
was heel-length and Medici-collared. On
its black velvet ran ribbon stripes in
gold thread. Here and there walked a
sable coat conscious of its worth. Mink
and ermine occurred so frequently they
were almost monotonous, and silver fox
was as plentiful as the bunny of former
years. Queerly enough, the underlying
pathos of this play captures the women
just as much as its comedy.
The young lads of Sydney have lost a
good friend by the passing of Miss
Charles Fairfax. This 76-year-old lady
died recently at Wanganui, Maoriland,
whither she had gone in the hope that
the trip would benefit her health. The
Boy Scouts, the Boys’ Brigade and the
Navy League Sea Cadets were some of
the youngsters on whom she kept a
kindly eye, and for whose causes her
purse was always open. In addition to
banners and flags for yearly competition
the Scout movement benefits by the
Petersham Scout Hall, given in memory
of her sister Amy, and the Ann Fairfax
hostel, given in memory of her mother.
Dancer Norda Mata, a bunch of yel-
low flowers in her cobalt-blue suit, was
the reason for a late tea-party at the Aus-
tralia last week. Miss Mata is an en-
thusiast over the art work of China and
Japan, in which countries she made
pleasant sojourn before dropping into
Sydney. Before leaving Australia Norda
is going to do some air-travel; from
Melbourne she flies to Brisbane, and
from Brisbane to Perth in time to catch
the ship that carries her off. Norda is
intrepid. Her slim fairness didn’t
shudder away from cakes piled with
whipped cream, from rich pastries. But
perhaps she eats all her sweets at one
meal, her proteins at another (that’s the
newest way of dieting), or maybe she's
just one of those darlings of the gods
who were born to be sylphlike.
“Undies—Some Half, Some Less!”
—Headline to a newspaper ad.
What will Mr. Spooner say?


advt
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling lust Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Contain
genuine
medicinal
qualities
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOt «
JUJUBES
Recommended
by Doctors
for almost
50 years
6d. & 1/6 tin
Melbourne
Chtter
To speak French was the right thing to
do at the International Club’s reception
for the newly-installed Consul for France.
M. Charles Claudon and his very attrac-
tive wife have been transferred from
Shanghai to fill a position which has been
unoccupied for two years. M. Claudon
is a big Frenchman ; he has a keen sense
of humor and speaks English with the
slight imperfections that make foreigners’
proficiency full of pleasant surprises.
Madame is still at the learning stage, but,
judging by her width of brow, she will
have no difficulty in mastering our
idioms. For the reception she wore a
natural squirrel coat over black taffeta,
and carried a gold bag to match her gold
sandals. Herbert Brookes, speaking on
behalf of the Bureau of Social and Inter-
national Affairs, mentioned democracy,
depression and the gold standard. M.
Vanderkelen, who is secretary of the
Consular corps, eschewed politics for
pleasantries.
Madame Vanderkelen wore a black
frock and a brief cape of prune velvet.
Black was popular among many of the
guests, including Mrs. H. Fitchett, Mrs.
H. Gunn (who left for abroad this week
and will be in Germany for the Olympic
Games) and Dorothy Watson (numbered
among speakers of fluent French), whose
ensemble included a long velvet coat
over a velvet frock which turned into
pale-pink georgette in the region of the
shoulders. Mrs. Marcard, also in black,
wore with her taffeta lace gown a
beautiful opal pendant, the lively stone of
which came from Alice Springs. It was a
present from her elder son Franz, who
travels in the interior in connection with
aerial survey, and it was cut and polished
by a resident —a master-craftsman—of the
Alice.
Returning home from “Richard of
Bordeaux,” at the King’s, the audience
looked for half-forgotten history books,
turned into bed to dream of murder
and intrigues, kings and kingmakers, and
woke up in the morning thankful that
this is the twentieth and not the four-
teenth century. The play got a tre-
mendous ovation, and, judging by the
final applause, everybody wanted Richard
to take a solo curtain. For Ken Tuck-
field, who made his stage debut only a
few months ago, justified the pro-
mise of his initial efforts and has now
met fame face to face.
The dressing of the Gregan McMahon
production is consistent with the gor-
geous attire of Richard ll.’s court. The
king, , his bevy of plotting uncles and
other noblemen displayed shapely legs
in colored hose ; after 1389 fashions be-
came so giddy that the smartest gentle-
men wore stockings of which each leg
was a different color. Doublets were of
velvet, cloaks gay as a peacock’s
tail. For outdoor wear they sported
hoods with frilly cape attachments;
going to war they were clad in armor
of clanking metal plates and übiquitious
but very effective kitchen material known
as magic mitt. The womenfolk wore
graceful and elaborate gowns of flowing
velvet and silk, with sleeves alternately
narrow and voluminous.
Sybil Porter, as Anne, first balanced
a tall two-pronged hat with a veil dang-
ling from the points, and afterwards had
her hair in swathed chiffon drapings.
Though their parts were small, Judy
Price and Bonita Freeman shared in
the grandeur. The ladies’ conversation
touched on plucked eyebrows ; whether
the custom was a historical fact or a
human touch introduced by author
Gordon Daviot is a moot point. The
make-up, as always in a McMahon show,
was a work of art, and the scenery (there
are 12 changes) most effective in a room
in the Tower of London and in a
gallery overlooking Westminster.
In the audience were noticed Mrs.
Albion Walkley, in a black coat trimmed
with white fox, and her daughter Lyn-
ette, distinctive in silver lame. Mar-
garet Shann was with her fiance, Dal
Charlton. Mrs. Frank Andrew, wear-
ing pink rosebuds upon her black cloak,
sat with her son Rod and Joan Watt, in
nasturtium velvet. If eyes could be
dragged away from Bettine Fisken’s gold
filigree hairclin Ivins risht down the
middle of her forehead, they found just
as much interest in her belt, a 6m.
width of nursery rhymes in suede with
farmyard fowls and dovecot in the front
and polar bears and kangaroos at the
back. Mrs. Fisken was not over-
shadowed by her young daughter, for
she had pinned right across the front
of her frock a branch of real tangerines.
Bridge champions who have become
life-partners are Phyllis Wainwright and
Dr. John Turner. After the marriage
ceremony in All Saints, East St. Kilda —
it was performed by the bride’s brother-
in-law, the Rev. Bright Parker—Mr. and
Mrs. Wainwright made friends and rela-
tions welcome at Yanga, their home in
Caulfield. Of velvet, smooth as a
camellia petal, was the wedding gar-
ment, over which fell layers of tulle as
a feathery foundation for the old Vene-
tian veil which had been worn at their
weddings by the bride’s sisters, Mrs.
Bright Parker and Mrs. Lex Pearson.
The bride and her father were preceded
up the aisle by the choir and followed
by one ’maid, Ida Tinsley, whose gown
of dahlia-red velvet was ornamented with
shirring upon neck and sleeves. A velvet
flower rested ujpon the crown of her tulle
hat, and carnations, deep cream and pale
pink striped with crimson, were in her
bouquet. The ’groom, who is the son
of the late C. S. Turner and Mrs. Turner,
of Hawthorn, was supported by Stan
Byrne.
Here is a Ronald Esler likeness of
Isobel Ann Shead, whose Mike has been
received with thumbs up by Hutchin-
son’s. Mike is a young lad who makes
his way in the world, and, Sandy, the cen-
tral figure of Miss Shead’s first novel,
is also in the story. This young writer,
who is planning a trip abroad at the
end of the year, was born in Adelaide,
educated in Sydney and earns a broad-
casting livelihood in Melbourne. When-
ever she gets holidays she makes imme-
diate tracks for the country.
Gertrude Johnson and Phyllis Walsh
filled the Quamby Club’s drawing-room
with music during Mrs. Hylton Dale’s
afternoon party. It was a very large
party. The hostess wore black velvet to
her ankles and a wee black hat with one
of the veils which always find favor in
and over her eyes. After the musical
interlude everybody adjourned to an-
other large reception-room for tea, which
was taken sitting or standing round a
central table decorated with a monster
basket of flowers and tendrils of liquid
amber creeping among meringues and
savories.
Among the many wearers of feathers
was Mrs. W. Griffiths, her plumes being
dipped in the same wine-red as her dress.
Noticed for her commanding height was
Mrs. W. A. Robbins, who wore white
carnations and pearls as accessories for
black. Mrs. Gibson Stott chose a stone-
colored suit and a velvet flower in her
hat, and Mrs. H. Miles Cox, who has
been speaking to Scotland by telephone,
was in lipstick-red and a black coat.
Shades of warm Burgundy were favored
by Mrs. Leslie Fuller and Mrs. Trevor
Foster, and Mrs. Nevil Mader placed a
silver fox over her tailored shoulder.
Variations in neckwear were fashion
notes played by Mrs. Hugh Mitchell,
hers the severity of swathed white satin
under a black suit; and by Mrs. Simon
McLennan, who adopted a chou bow
of black-and-white taffeta and had some-
thing new in buttons —realistic red
chillies.
When Bernard Hall died over a year
ago people interested in art soon began
to wonder if Mrs. Hall would arrange
an exhibition of his paintings and a sate
of his antiques. Last week the exhibi-
tion materialised, the difficulty of a room
to house the valuables being solved by
Mrs. Churton, whose Illawarra is par-
ticularly suitable for the display of paint-
ings and objets d’art. Lady Huntingfield
declared the exhibition open from a van-
tage point overlooking the ballroom—a
Juliet balcony, which she shared with
Mrs. Churton, wearing oatmeal-colored
apparel; Mrs, Hall, in black, with reliefs
of white quill and white carnations ; John
Longstaff and representatives of the bene-
fiting charities (2s. per head was charged
on the opening day): St. Martin’s Home
for Boys, the Hebrew Ladies’ Benevolent
Society and the Sisters of the Community
of the Holy Name.
Of the traffic which wended its way
on wheels or on foot along St. George’s-
road on the first afternoon were many
women but scarcely half a dozen hus-
bands —men can steal a short piece of
work-time for a city exhibition, but
Toorak is too far away. Among spec-
tators and buyers (sales are very satis-
factory) on the first day were Mrs. Louis
Nelken, Barbara Syme (in a dove-grey
suit and hat), Mrs. Robert Wilkins (with
flat purple feathers nestling round the
brim of her hat), Mrs. Hubert Levi
(a silver fox over her shoulder), Mrs.
Lennox Spiers, who found fascination in
a glass case of antiques ; Mrs. Oswald
Benjamin, who preferred pictures; Mrs.
Geoff Burton, wearing a navy suit and
hat; and Mrs. H. F. Maudsley, whose
commanding stature gave an advantage
in the crowd.
The sensation of the Celebrity Concert
was not Eileen Joyce nor the very rare
Mozart rondo but a blonde young
woman who entered late after the first
item and occupied a seat in the front of
the gallery. For the night she became
Juliet, with two long, fair plaits hang-
ing over her shoulders (and over the
balustrade), a tiny seed-pearl cap and
a black velvet gown. She was Mrs.
Parker, from Perth, and is studying sing-
ing at the Con. At Eileen Joyce’s second
concert at the Assembly Hall Mrs.
Parker caused almost as dynamic a stir
with another late entrance, a green scarf
attached to her shoulders and her hair
rolled round her head in a thick halo.
Snug among silver foxes is Mr. and
Mrs. A. A. Erswell’s only daughter
Betty. Miss Erswell has undertaken the
responsibility of the cashbox for the
Renown Free Kindergarten Cabaret Ball,
to be held at Myer’s on June 23. She is
among the kindergarten’s reliable sup-
porters, and for five years has assisted
the director and students as a voluntary
helper. On previous occasions the
Renown Ball has been organised by the
girls who work among and have a per-
sonal interest in the Renown Kinder-
garten children, but this year’s effort is
to be bigger and more ambitious. The
older generations have been requisitioned
to assist the young folk. Miss Erswell,
whose photo, is by Dickinson-Monteath,
is engaged to Ted Forrest.
Gengoult Smith, opening John
Rowell’s exhibition of pictures, tickled
his memory now and then with notes
written on the back of his cheque-book,
and remarked that he hoped other
cheque-books would be taken out of
pockets during the show. In wearing
morning dress he had support from
F. B. Gamble and Basil Murphy, both
turned out meticulously to their spats.
It is noticeable that the Bar is gradually
taking such apparel out of its wardrobe
for all sorts of occasions other than offi-
cial functions and weddings.
Among others present were A. S. Mc-
Michael, who owns one of the finest
collections of pictures in Melbourne ; A.
M. Tate, whose portrait was on the wall;
Mrs. John Rowell, who made a merry
gipsy model in another canvas ; Glanville
Hicks, Hume Cook and Dr. Cunning-
ham, who, like Mr. Tate, is concerned
with the progress of international educa-
tion. Mrs. R. D. Bakewell, down from
her home in Benalla, was there. She is
interested in art, and before her marriage
studied with Bernard Hall and George
Bell. Suspicions among ornithologists,
amateur and professional, were roused
by Miss E. K. Fletcher’s hat, but the
black-and-green birds in full flight
around the crown were synthetic and not
prohibited articles of a close season.
The new railways creche high up above
Flinders-street station is like Fairyland
gone practical. The all-green sunroom is
in two divisions : an open-air roof garden
furnished with seesaws and tricycles, and
a wired-in shelter shed with a hygienic
but soft floor of captivating toys. Indoor
extensions are two pale-blue-and-white
dormitories with wee cots on castors,
covered with the most modern of blue
blankets, complete with perforated ven-
tilator holes ; a kitchen of blue enamel
and stainless steel and a second large
playroom. Throughout the children’s
domain steam-heaters are painted silver
and covered with silver wire, and the
walls tell stories of happy babyhood in
friezes designed and stencilled by the
railways staff.
A humorous touch about the opening
of the creche on Saturday morning were
the noises made by the children right
through the speeches—but they were
happy noises ; there wasn’t one yell of
grief or rage. Mrs. Harold Clapp per-
formed the official opening by removing
a blue ribbon from the sunroom door.
Sister Northcote, beloved of hundreds of
mothers and children, brought along a
letter from the mother of Judith Dooley,
the first child to be admitted to the
original creche when it was opened three
years ago—June 7, 1933. Judith had a
special invitation to be present on Satur-
day, but the advent of a brother, Michael
Barry, did her out of the party. This
young brother is the Dooleys’ tenth
child.
After inspection of the creche, every-
body gathered in the big playroom to
discuss morning-tea and watch Dr. Vera
Scantlebury cut the birthday cake: plain
sponge, covered with “hundreds and
thousands,” and carrying Mickey Mouse
on the upper storey and streamlined rail-
way engines round the base. Commis-
sioners Harold Clapp, M. J. Canny and
Norman Harris and their wives, Mrs.
Geoff Smith with a daringly long quill in
her blue felt hat, various railway officials,
several of whom seemed to answer to the
name of Bill, Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Bradish
and Betty Wilmot were noticed in the
vicinity of a wall decoration wherein a
fat baby in a little green boat was being
propelled over a blue sea by a flock of
winging seagulls.
The Rotary Ball was an open season
for hydrangeas. The blooms, grown in
A. M. Nicholas’s hothouse, were banked
in thick green-and-blue clouds round the
official tables. It’s a noticeable human
trait that no fingers can resist spinning
a wheel if it’s there to spin. An Inter-
national Rotary circle (very like a
Tibetan prayer-wheel) was seldom still,
though it decorated the table of honor.
Dancers clapping for encores in the
vicinity could never resist giving the
wheel a twirl for luck. Another spot of
psychology (this time to make money)
was the bran-pie ; for no one can say no
to surprises and the high hopes of get-
ting, not a packet of pins, but the com-
ponent ticket for a crystal vase or a box
of golf balls. The pie was cooked and
sold by Mr. and Mrs. Geof Fethers and
Frank Ayre. Mrs. Fethers was in mid-
night velvet, with a sparklet-studded belt,
and Mrs. Ayre, temporarily lost in the
crowd, wore, according to her husband,
blue, with “bits”; according to Mr.
Fethers, pink.
The Percy Oakleys were there, Mrs.
Oakley in a raisin-colored gown and
coat. Mrs. G. J. Coles chose convol-
vulus-blue satin, with sleeves and deep
yoke of spiderweb lace. Mrs. D. C. Hel-
lings was in lilac, and Nan Mitchell
pinned daphne in her hair and rustled a
frill round the ankles of her pink taffeta
frock. Black lace had adherents in Mrs.
Fred Hartnell, Mrs. Angus Mitchell and
Mrs. Rippon Sargood, and black velvet
with silver buttons and twinkly nailheads
round the neck was chosen by Mrs.
Maurice Lloyd. Mrs. John Sutherland
and Pat Beg were also in inky-blue.


Be the design classic or modern,
flawless beauty, diamond cut and
sparkle, and exquisite symmetry dis-
tinguish every piece of Stuart Crystal.
English hand - made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Sole Representatives
(wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.
317-23 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204, Clarence Street,
Sydney
Stuart
drgstal
Legal Notices.
RE CHARLES EDWARD BRUCE, late of
Pensioners’ Reserve, Tarragindi, Ipswich
Road, South Brisbane, in the State of
Queensland, of no occupation, deceased,
Intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled to the Estate of the
abovenamed CHARLES EDWARD BRUCE,
or any part thereof, and particularly ROBERT
BRUCE, the lawful father of the said de-
ceased, THOMAS JAMES BRUCE, HENRY
GEORGE BRUCE, ALFRED WILLIAM
BRUCE, ROBERT FRANCIS BRUCE and
LOUISA CATHERINE WHITE, lawful
brothers and sister of the said deceased;
ALFRED JOHN BRUCE, MARY FRANCES
BRUCE, AGNES BRUCE and ALICE
BRUCE, being children of Alfred William
Bruce and lawful nephew and nieces of the
said deceased, are hereby required to forward
proof of their claims to THE PUBLIC
CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND, at Edward
Street, Brisbane, on or before the Twenty-
first day of October, One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-six, and that after the expira-
tion of the aforesaid date the said The Public
Curator of Queensland will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased, disre-
garding the claims of which he shall not have
received notice and of all persons claiming by,
through or under them or any of them by
derivative title or otherwise howsoever.
DATED at Brisbane this Third day of April,
1936
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator of Queensland,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
COOK. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
ALICE MAUD COOK, the eldest daughter of
Mary Jane Bloomfield, late of Sydney, deceased,
and widow of James Cook, or of her two
children, BEATTIE COOK and WILLIAM
COOK, last heard of in Queensland, is asked
to communicate with MESSRS. SLY AND
RUSSELL, Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street, Syd-
ney, who have information which may prove
to their advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 787 of 1936.
BETWEEN GLADYS PENELOPE BINNS
Petitioner
And JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS Respon-
dent.
TO JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS late of Broken
Hill.
JAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
PENELOPE BINNS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of May,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLE, Solicitor, '56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 649 of 1936.
BETWEEN HILDA IVA ALLWOOD Peti-
tioner
And FREDERICK JOHN ALLWOOD
Respondent.
TO FREDERICK JOHN ALL WOOD late of
Broken Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA IVA
ALLWOOD has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-fifth
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of May,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLE, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 776 of 1936.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN RUTH FRANZWAY
Petitioner
And LESLIE JOHN FRANZWAY Re-
spondent.
TO LESLIE JOHN FRANZWAY.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
RUTH FRANZWAY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court on the
ground of desertion without any.just cause or
excuse for a period of three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Nineteenth day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-six and in the
event of your not doing so in the limited
time or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of May, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction. ?
No. 1483 of 1935.
BETWEEN RITA SYLVIA RYAN Petitioner
And JAMES RYAN Respondent.
TO JAMES RYAN formerly of Parkes in the
State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RITA
SYLVIA RYAN has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is praying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your desertion of her for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the third day of September One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed anc
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition hied
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of June One thoiE
sand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydne.'■
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Rain almost drowned the W.A.T.C.
race-meetings. On the second day the
brollies were almost stunning: Mrs.
Norman Temperley’s was tartan, Mar-
jorie Calthrop’s vivid scarlet.
Repertorians danced, mostly in fancy
dress, at the Embassy where Mary
Meares headed the list of prizewinners
as best-dressed lady. Club members pro-
vided the interludes on the programme:
Allison Lee’s was a specialty dance,
“Daisy Bell.” Mabel Leather, in black
taffeta and net, handed over the prizes ;
vice-president H. S. Bickford was there,
with his lady’s Nile-blue chiffon velvets
alongside ; Mrs. R. A. Cameron’s black
laces were next Kitty Gillies’s prune matt
crepes during the judging ; Edna Smily
was a dainty Columbine; and Kirke
Hearder’s upper-lip fungus belied the
Titian ringlets topping his winged fairy
costume.
The Historical Society celebrated Foun-
dation Day at the Karrakatta Club.
Hostess Mary Farrelly swished old-world
blue brocade which dripped with Honiton
lace. Kath Shelton arranged a parade
illustrating the styles of the last 100
years ; a one-act play, “Antiques,” was
produced by Mrs. Goyne Miller, who
made up the cast with Mrs. Karl Knapp
and Betty Campbell ; Mrs. Digby Leach
and Mr. David Lyle sang. Then there
were community singing and dancing.
Descendants of Marshall Waller Clifton,
who settled at Australind in 1840, made
up a set in appropriate costumes.
Engineering students spread themselves
on lighting effects for the dance in their
hall at Crawley. A huge fan, spoked with
the letters of their chair, had pride of
place over the portals ; icicles hung from
the ceiling of the dance-room, with dif-
fused lights giving the effect of sunlight,
the orchestra was ensconced in the replica
of a ship’s prow, and the balcony, steer-
ing-wheel attached, served as the poop
deck. Mrs. O. F. Blakey did the honors
in slinky-black satin warmed with a
velvet coat; Prof. Fraenkel’s wife com-
bined brown brocade velvet with gold and
fur ; Mrs. E. De Ce. Clarke wore a green
web of silken lace ; Prof. Weatherburn’s
lady was snug in black chiffon velvet;
Mrs. Dumas buckled a silver-kid belt
round her rich Burgundy taffetas, and
Dosi Fraenkel piped her pastel-blue silk
nets with taffeta.
An English literature prize for women
students is to be endowed at the Uni-
versity ; it is to be known as the Amy
Jane Best prize in memory of the founder
of the first recognised girls’ school in
Perth.
For her marriage to Clifford Dukes at
the Ross Memorial kirk Jean Fitch was
swathed in ivory lace, classic cut and
flared as to train. A cascade of hand-
embroidered tulle swirled from a halo
of silver leaves and half-concealed the
sheaf of white gladioli and Cecil Brunner
roses. Zoie Bennet’s attendant frock was
a softly harmonising combination of
duck-egg-green marocain and sage-green
georgette, with a vivid splash of autumn
leaves and berries as a bouquet. Rejoic-
ings at the R.A.C., where Mrs. Fitch
pinned a spray of gold roses on the
shoulder of her black georgette and lace.
To celebrate Violet Atkins’s debut and
Doyle Moseley’s coming-of-age, Mrs.
King Atkins and Mrs. Henry Moseley
joined forces in giving a dance at Mrs.
Atkins’s home in West Perth. Violet’s
fluffy dress was in white taffeta and
net flounces, all frosty with diamente ;
her mother’s handsome black velvet was
touched with gold lame, and Mrs. Mose-
ley’s black taffetas shimmered with silver.
In lieu of a cake on the supper-table the
combined coming-out and birthday was
represented by a large lacquered pump-
kin holding 21 orange candles.
More engagements. Margaret Crocker,
who tripped off to England recently, has
booked a matrimonial date with Richard
Blount Cross, of Worcestershire; the
south supplies Pauline Phillip’s engage-
ment to George Bostock, of Pingelly;
and in the city there is Odette Jeanne,
second daughter of the late M. Antoine
and Madame Antoine, giving her promise
to John Charles Ward, of Wiluna.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Furs have been a feature of recent race
dressing, and a great deal of black has
been worn. At one meeting the Bony-
thon lady, who rarely goes to the races,
wore a black ensemble with pink silk
blouse and carnations to match pinned
in her silver fox fur. Her hat was a
black felt.
Arctic weather brought out a large
crop of fur coats at Victoria Park for
the Birthday Cup. It was comfort first.
Owing to a family bereavement the chair-
man (James Hall) and his daughters did
not attend the meeting ; A. E. Hamilton
took Mr. Hall’s place, and Mrs. Albyn
Rankine was acting-hostess, wearing a
long squirrel fur coat over a black-
braided toilette and a small black hat
with smart eye veil. Mrs. R. L. Butler
was in a black boucle cloth coat trimmed
with astrakhan, worn with a black tarn
beret and silver fox furs. She was accom-
panied by her two daughters—Mrs. Neil
McEwin, in a navy ensemble and navy
Russian toque, and Jean Butler, in a heavy
honey-colored camel’s-hair sports coat
belted, with a brown teased woollen scarf
and a small brown hat. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) wore a
marmot fur coat over black wool maro-
cain ; her hat was a black tarn beret.
Bridge-players are kept busy. Mrs.
Guy Makin, who is interested in the
District Trained Nursing Society, is
arranging to hold two bridge parties at
her charming home in North Adelaide
to raise funds for the North Adelaide
and Walkerville branches.
Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Copley, of Rose-
ville, Sydney, have returned home.
They travelled to Adelaide via Broken
Hill, and during their stay here were the
guests of Mrs. Copley’s sister, Mrs. C.
M. Reid, of Unley Park. Mrs. Copley
was Margaret Yu ill, of Glenelg.
Margaret, eldest daughter of the E. W.
Holdens, is leaving for London next
month by a cargo boat with brother John,
who has been at Geelong College. John
is going to Cambridge.
The Rev. L. J. Bakewell and his wife,
who have been on furlough in Australia
for 12 months, left by the Narkunda for
the Anglican mission station at Tan-
ganyika.
Henley Beach was nearly reduced to
ashes when fire broke out in a row of
two-storey shops; three went up in
smoke. There is no local fire brigade,
and an SOS had to be sent. A lady
emerged from a bedroom carrying a
cockatoo ; she was bowled over by the
full force of a hose at high pressure. It
was a scene worthy of the movies.
The Miss Centenary contest closes this
month. A ball in the interests of “Miss
Insurance” was held at the Embassy. It
took the place of the annual Insurance
Ball, and so insured the support of all
the offices.
The Fred Porters, of Gilberton, enter-
tained 350 guests at a cocktail party to
celebrate their silver Wedding. Mrs.
Porter received in black floral georgette
with a corsage spray of crimson roses.
The reception-rooms were massed with
flowers—orchids, roses and hyacinths.
Deb. dances are coming to an end.
At the South Australian Mesdames H. A.
Solly and O. L. Isaachsen entertained
about 200 young things for the debut of
their daughters, Joan Solly and Mary
Isaachsen. Mothers favored black georg-
ette toilettes ; debs, looked as if they had
just stepped out of an early-Victorian
picture. They both wore white tulle.
Joan Solly’s very full skirt was a mass of
frills; Mary Isaachsen’s had a draped
pannier effect all of tulle. Both had the
tight bodice with off-shoulder effect,
trimmed round the corsage with frills of
tulle caught at intervals with wee posies
of pale-pink and blue forget-me-nots and
the same on the skirt. They carried early-
Victorian posies in the same flowers,
and wore blossom in their hair.
The idea now is for debs, to have
matronly toilettes in their wardrobe,
apart from their coming-out frock. At
the Solly-Isaachsen coming-out party
those who had debbed recently wore
black velvet and brown-and-purple
taffeta.
At a Hackney Free Kindergarten Ball
at the Palais Royal, the George Ritchies
and the Bonython lady were received by
the president (Mrs. H. J. Lipman). They
came in black velvet; Mrs. Lipman wore
white floral flat crepe, the backless bodice
crossed with diamente straps, finished
with a bow at the waistline. The secre-
tary, Nina Sutton, was in floral chiffon.
Birdgirl Nancy Bird was in black georg-
ette and wore a patterned black crepe
sari over her fair hair.
TASMANIA.
The Red Cross drive to raise funds
culminated in a fair in the Town Hall.
Stalls were tastefully arranged and busi-
ness was good ; sideshows added to the
takings.
Lois, elder daughter of the A. N. Par-
sons, of Devonport, and Norman Skirv-
ing, of Elizabethtown, faced wedding-
march music at St. John’s Church,
Devonport. The bride wore a Chinese
crepe gown, close-fitting and sleeved, with
a Limerick veil, a 125-years-old family
heirloom. RitaSkirving ’maided in blush-
pink taffetas, with square neckline and
full shirred skirt. The newly-weds settle
at Innisfail (N.Q.) after the honeymoon.
Mrs. J. Mclntyre, widow of Justice
Mclntyre, had her ninetieth birthday
lately, and all the family gathered at
daughter Mrs. Fred Grant's house for
festivities. Dr. Keverall Mclntyre and
his wife came down from Launceston.
While the Zealandia was loading apples
at Port Cygnet a ball was held on board
to celebrate the opening of the new pier.
Funds go to the Tas. Sanatorium and, the
Cygnet branch of the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation. The ship was decorated with
flags and tree-ferns ; bridge was played
in the lounge, and dancers had the deck
for their activities.
Rosabel Radcliffe is home on vac. from
her college of domestic science. About
80 bright young things arrived on her
doorstep for a surprise party. The sit-
ting-room was cleared for dancing.
The Robert Nettlefolds are cruising in
the Orontes, bound for Rabaul. Daughter
Mollie is with them.
Mrs. Ronald Dick and daughter Peggy
are in Sydney for several weeks. Mrs.
Dick has had another story of Tasmanian
life accepted by “Blackwood’s.”


The Latest Vogue with Horsemen!
“Z1PP” FASTENER
RIDING
BOOTS
0{ r fp
M
Popular for mounted and unmounted •
wear.
Easy and quick to put on and take
off.
In Full and Half Sizes.
33/9 Pair.
I Send Your Order To-day.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane.
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WORN PLU6S
WASTE YOUR
MONEY
, Replace them with
fc CHAMPIONS
Champion
iwiaittsoaj;
SPAWNS PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
Kingsley” Radio
Receivers
“Kingsley” High Fidelity
Receivers for Alternating
Current Operation, Broad-
cast and Short-wave Bands,
High quality, low consump-
tion Dual-wave Battery
Receivers.
Write for full particulars.
KINGSLEY TELERADIO
CONSTRUCTIONS Pty. Ltd.
249-251 Spring St., Melbourne.
Cent. 8461.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kwakprak”: The Weil’s disease prob-
lem in Queensland’s sugar areas looms
larger as the cane-cutting season
approaches. Prevention is essentially a
matter of keeping down rats, the sole
reservoirs and conveyors of the infection.
This is mainly a question of clearing
away rat harborage from the canefield
headlands, and keeping it cleared away.
Councils consider that the Government
should provide the funds for this work ;
the Government says that control
measures are a matter of local public
health, and that at least a substantial con-
tribution should be made from rates. So
some councils let the rats go on breed-
ing. An ideal Health Act would contain
power to inoculate any councillor or
politician, at the discretion of the P.M.0.,
with any epidemic disease which occurs
in his area or electorate after due warn-
ing has been given to take the requisite
preventive measures against that disease.
* * *
“II Vecchio”: Not only in Europe does
the Italian have his difficulties, as
witness events at Stanthorpe (Q.), where
two of Mussolini’s compatriots were
charged with cruelty to their children.
The father said that what with himself
and his wife talking Italian and the chil-
dren talking English, the place was a
tower of Babel. The children said that
they tried hard to converse in la lingua
del si, but lapsed naturally into plain Aus-
tralian. The P.M. tried to persuade the
unfortunate parent to allow his offspring
to use their adoptive tongue among them-
selves, but he would have none of it. So
one Italian family has been broken up.
* * *
“XT.”: The Brisbane “Telegraph”
office will scarcely seem the same when
M. L. Reading retires after 12 years in
the editorial chair. He came to Queens-
land from M.L., where he edited the
"Lyttleton Times.” In 1918, he was a
member of the editorial delegation which
visited the Western Front. The “Tele-
graph,” before the war, was a curious old
paper. It had more small advertising in
proportion to reading matter than even
the “S. M. Herald.” It had the finest col-
lection of beards outside Canaan, rang-
ing from the Leopold-of-Belgium con-
fection of Cowlishaw, the managing direc-
tor, to the stiff knob of “Alphabetical”
Lewis, the hardest working sub-editor
south of the Line, and the modest point
of Solomon Wanmer. The office was a
great training ground, with a rigid three-
year course for its cadets, but when Read-
ing came to it it was already changing
sadly. Its editors and managers had
become less and less spectacular. The
solemnity of George Woolnough, who
wrote a large metaphysical tome called
“Kosmos,” had given place successively
to the genial irony of “Whiskers” Ward
and the acerbity of Tom Heney. And
most of the beards about the place had
been put on the dump. Reading turned
the paper into a modern journal full of
headings and pictures.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: It is not only the far
inland parts of Australia that are suffer-
ing the effects of erosion. Some startling
effects on the south Queensland coast
have been produced by the heavy gales
and erratic tides and currents of this very
peculiar season. Near Southport gangs
of men have been working desperately
to prevent a break through at Narrow
Neck, where the Pacific Highway has
been in danger of destruction for a con-
siderable space. Sea walls have been
washed away, groining destroyed, surf
sheds and watch towers carried away,
and tides have attained heights unpre-
cedented in local memory. The same
story is told from other seaside resorts,
and a movement has been instituted to
petition the Government to obtain the
advice of Dutch harbor engineers, who
are the world’s most skilled controllers of
sea-encroachment on sandy foreshores.
* # * $
“Dungeness”: A policeman’s life in
the N.T. may not be happy, but it is cer-
tainly active. Sergeant Koop, for
example, left Darwin by ’plane for Daly
Waters and reached Newcastle Waters
by truck to attend a special court which
lasted from 5 p.m. till midnight. The
cases comprised unlawful possession of
a bullock carcass and alleged larceny of
“Ain't this hell?”
“ Dunno — you’ve got the map.”
parts from a wrecked ’plane. He drove
back to Birdum next day, and caught the
train to Pine Creek, to attend another
night court; the charges were unlawful
occupation of a Crown lease, opium-
smoking by a Chinese and drinking by
an abo. in defiance of law b’long white
pfeller. Home again, the rapidly-moving
minion of the law had covered just on
1000 miles well inside of a week.
* * * *
“Notaden”: If the proposed strato-
sphere balloon ascent from Central Aus-
tralia by Professor Piccard and his party
comes off successfully, it will yield scien-
tific results of great value. All previous
stratospheric observations have been
made in the Northern Hemisphere, and in
summer. A winter ascent in southern lati-
tudes will enable the seasonal differences
and any meteorological variations exist-
ing between north and south latitudes to
be determined. Central Australia has
been selected on account of the wide
area needed to ensure descent on land
by a non-dirigible aircraft entirely at the
mercy of the wind. It will be a danger-
ous adventure in any case, and the many
experiences of ’planes forced down in
that country prove how difficult it is to
locate objects of large size and attention-
attracting shape from searching ’planes.
jfc - Jfc
“Northo”: Innisfail (N.Q.) is fast mak-
ing its way info the Chittagong class
for rainfalls. Two days in every three
have been wet this year, and the average
per day of rain has been liin. —in all
122 inches. March and May had only
five fine days each.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The parents of Mary de Silva and
Peggy Leseberg gave their chicks a
private coming-out party at Rowe’s, and
lots of youngsters who not yet are offi-
cially “out” were guests. Peggy, very
fair, and Mary, dark-haired and creamy-
skinned, made a lovely contrast, one in
desert pink and the other in white taf-
fetas. Both girls made their official
debut at the Loretto Ball on June 5.
There’s a new band at Lennon’s, and
hordes of guests responded to Herschelle
Morgan’s invitation to go along and
dance to its music. Black velvet light-
ened by pink camellias draped Miss
Morgan’s dignified form.
Coveys of young doctors thankfully
left their stethoscopes at home, got into
tails and escorted their wives to the Belle
Vue for the post-graduate dance, the
one night in every year when doctors
really feel off the chain. Dr. Noel Gut-
teridge and his wife received, helped by
Dr. and Mrs. S. F. McDonald. Mrs.
McDonald wore plum-colored lacquered
satin, and Mrs. Gutteridge was in water-
melon pink.
Mrs. Jim Massey and Mrs. Phil Aliom
received at St. Ursula’s Ball, one in
dusty pink and the other in primrose
yellow. The Belle Vue ballroom, though
large enough for most shivoos, was taxed
to accommodate the mobs.
Every women’s organisation in Bris-
bane staged a farewell party in honor of
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, president of half
the charity and other committees in
Brisbane, and a great battler for women
and children.
Maureen Sanderson, a promising young
member of the Repertory Society, made
the most of her chance in “They Refuse
to Be Resurrected,” one of the four one-
act plays staged at the Princess Theatre.
Gwen Campbell and Joan Rapson were
the ladies in “King’s Son, Churl’s Son,”
and Marie Langdon wore some smart
frocks in “Birds of Passage.” “Sym-
phony in Illusion” was the other, and
seven girls in French peasant frocks took
part.
H. B. Sevier, of Sydney, and Miss
Julia Etta Sevier entertained a bevy of
guests at a cocktail party at Lennon’s
Hotel. Wine velvet was the appropriate
covering chosen by the hostess, and pink
and red Radiance roses decked the palm
court, where the cocktails and savories
were served.
Mrs. Forgan Smith gave a luncheon
party at Parliament House for Mrs. F.
J. Wise, wife of the Westralian Agricul-
tural Minister. Chestnut-brown dull
satin was worn by Mrs. Forgan Smith,
and the guest of honor was in tailored
black repp. The azaleas which decked
the rooms were a good advertisement for
Queensland’s horticultural possibilities.
Four good lawns reclaimed from
swamp land is the proud boast of the
Mcllwraith Croquet Club, at which Mrs.
J. F. Maxwell formally opened the two
new rooms and dressing-room which
have been added to the freshly-painted
pavilion.
Margaret Lahey, who marries Harry
Turncock at the Southport School chapel
on June 13-, has been having the usual
teas and junketings, Margaret gave -a
theatre party to “The Gondoliers” in
honor of the four girls who will be her
bridesmaids, followed up by a supper
dance at the Belle Vue.
Rev. Nathan Levine married Godfrey
Isaacs and Freda Altshuler at the Syna-
gogue, and every head was craned as
the bridegroom smashed the symbolic
wineglass under his heel. Ivory brocade
and a veil of Brussels net, owned by the
bridegroom’s family for over a century,
decked the bride, who wore a fascinat-
ing triple coronet of orange-blossoms.
Two Sydney girls, Joyce and Marion
Lazarus, and Esther Roth, of Murwil-
lumbah, were the ’maids. There was a
reception at the Canberra.
Dr. and Mrs. O. J. S. Macdonald and
their infant arrived by the Nieuw Hol-
land, and will spend some months in
Brisbane visiting the Rev. Scott Mac-
donald. Sixteen years ago Dr. Mac-
donald left for Edinburgh, and this is
his first visit home since then. He and
his wife have been in Upper Assam for
some years.
Murumba, Tom Petrie’s old home at
Petrie, was the scene of a novel enter-
tainment when the Misses Petrie lent the
grounds for a “Mrs. Wiggs” afternoon.
A real cabbage patch was included in the
“props,” and the lovely grounds made
a delightful setting. Mrs. James For-
syth declared the party open.


Replace worn
Valves with
Milliard
I
The
Master
Valve
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Geelong House,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
V
4
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA435/.
"ronmnl
ca Sf/
Battery "International”
7-valve Dual-wave,
£l3/17/6.
RADIO NEWS
A POWER AMPLIFIER FOR PUBLIC-ADDRESS OR
AMATEUR USE.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The amplifier described here has been
found of great use in a number of in-
stances. A.C.-operated, completely trans-
portable and capable of first-class repro-
duction, it has, in the writer’s possession,
proved itself ideal for use as a P.A.
system for parties and dances where high-
quality music rather than raucous volume
is the rule. At the same time, it has
been tried on a VK6 amateur ’phone
station, and provides sufficient audio
power to fully modulate a medium-
powered transmitter. Reports on the
Circuit of the power amplifier.
transmission with this amplifier in use
as a modulator showed that reproduc-
tion of music was up to commercial
broadcast quality, which is no mean com-
pliment.
In place of horns, a substantial baffle
was decided upon. The four speakers used
are mounted on two pieces of process-
engraver’s five-ply, each measuring 4ft.
by 2ft., making, when hinged together, a
baffle of 16 sq. feet. Because of the
hinge in the centre the job of moving the
outfit from place to place is much less
of a problem than it would be otherwise.
Of course, the four Q-type speakers
and the 4ft. square baffle are not essential
to the amplifier, and the job can be
worked into any combination of speakers
suitable to the type of work to be under-
taken and within the reach of the opera-
tor. At the same time it must be pointed
out that experience has shown, and in-
dependent judges have agreed, that the
four speakers of small cone diameter,
used in place of one or perhaps two
large speakers, give a brilliance of tone
and “attack” which can be surpassed
only by a “tweeter.” To those who
may question the ability of the speakers
to handle the lower register, one can only
say that the opinions of men in the radio
and p.a. businesses have shown that the
bass response is adequate.
The Circuit.
The circuit, illustrated in Fig. 1, calls
for little comment. A “phase inverter”
56, with plate and cathode loads, works
into a pair of resistance-coupled 56’s in
turn driving the final valves —PX2s’s.
(Of this English type, more later.) Large
grid condensers (see the values in the
circuit diagram) are employed to ensure
good frequency range. The grid and
plate resistors are chosen to provide the
maximum permissible gain consistent
with good quality and length of valve
Fig. 2.—Underside view of the chassis.
life. This latter point is particularly im-
portant with regard to the leaks used in
the final stages. The type PX2S, in
common with such others as the 2A3,
50, LS6A, etc., will suffer shortened
working life if operated with too high
a value of grid leak. This is owing to the
small but definite flow of grid current
(caused by grid emission) finding the
external circuit from grid to filament and
causing a voltage drop across it in oppo-
sition to the existing bias voltage. A
low value of grid resistance provides an
easy path for this current and at the
same time keeps the value of the oppos-
ing voltage low. In addition, automatic
bias helps to minimise harmful effects.
It should be noted that in the original
design no voltage divider was used and
that values of resistors in one or two
cases will be materially affected if such
a component is used. The*re is no reason
why one should not be, and, indeed, if
the job is to be used in such a way that
filaments and high tension are turned on
at once, a voltage divider would be a
profitable investment.
Points About Construction.
Construction in the original model
divided up the gear into three units;
the amplifier chassis, the main power
chassis and the field-supply chassis. This
gives three easily-handled units and
makes the outfit flexible. A system of
plugs and multi-wire cables links the
amplifier with its power supplies and the
speakers with their feed supply. Both
the amplifier and main power pack (see
Fig. 4) are mounted on chassis 9in. x
7|in. x 4in. deep. This depth accommo-
dates all the necessary gear and permits
of mounting one transformer and one
choke beneath the power chassis in addi-
tion to one of each on top.
In the amplifier chassis, the bulk of
the resistors and small condensers are
fitted to small panels of punching bake-
lite (see Fig. 2), making easy voltage and
current tests and the replacement of com-
ponents. A rubber grummett in the
chassis near the first 56 provides an out-
let for a foot or so of twin flex covered
with earthed braid ; this forms the input
connection. It should be noted that both
sides of the input are above earth poten-
tial and any accidental grounding of one
or other of the leads will upset matters.
The 100-ohm stopper resistances in the
plate leads to the PX2s’s should each be
capable of carrying lOOma. The by-pass
condenser connected across the bias
resistor of the first 56 is formed of two
pigtail electrolytics of 25mfd.,.each con-
nected in parallel.
An’ adjustable bias resistor for the final
stage is essential, as it is foolish to risk
ruining the valves by the use of a fixed
component. When the amplifier is
assembled, the first job is to adjust the
bias ; and, unless this is done accurately
with a reliable meter in each plate lead
in turn, showing exactly 62.5 ma., the
operation of the amplifier may be marred
by motor-boating of a slow yet violent
Power supplies for the amplifier.
type. It is advisable to make a final
check-up in addition to the test outlined,
and place the meter in the centre-
tap lead to the speaker transformers,
where it should read no more than 125 ma.
If, after the foregoing has been carried
out, the amplifier still motor-boats, the
grid condensers to the last valves should
be reduced and can be taken as far as .1
or so before any serious alteration in
tone is noted. This, however, should not
be necessary.
The speaker transformers may be re-
moved from the speaker frames and in-
Fig. 4. —The complete assembly, show-
ing the four speakers on the folding
baffle.
stalled on the amplifier chassis with low-
impedance lines from the secondaries
running to the voice coils, but on the
original they were left on. Connection
between amplifier and speakers takes the
form of cabled leads terminating in a
board fitted with two five-pin sockets to
take the speaker plugs.
The Power Supplies.
The only equipment used in the whole
of the amplifier assembly which is not
standard comprises the high-tension
transformer, the four-volt filament trans-
former (also carrying the 5Z3 filament
winding), and the smoothing chokes.
These were made up to order, and the
original specifications are as follows:
H.T. Transformer. —Primary at mains
voltage; secondary, 500-500 volts at
250 ma., tapped also at 375-375.
Filament Transformer. —Primary at
mains voltage ; (a) secondary giving 4v.
at 3 amps.; (b) secondary giving 4v. at
3 amps.; (c) secondary giving sv. at
4 amps.
Smoothing Chokes—{a) Twenty-five
henries (no higher than 150 ohms. d.c.
resistance) to carry 250 ma. ; ( b ) 30 henries
(no higher than 250 ohms d.c. resistance)
to carry 250 ma.
A little calculation will show that the
gear has been designed for a maximum
load somewhere in the vicinity of 60 p.c.
greater than the amplifier will impose
upon it. This may seem extravagant, but
it must be borne in mind that expensive
gear which can be adapted to more than
one job may be economical, and that,
furthermore, power gear which develops
heat consumes more power for a given
output than does that which runs cold.
On a hot summer night the power pack
under discussion was run for five and a
half hours, and at the end of the even-
ing chokes and transformers, in spite of
the 250 watts or so being drawn from the
mains, were at room temperature. In
cold weather the same applies, and lami-
nations are quite cold tb the touch alter
hours of working.
In the writer’s model, filaments are
always turned on first and allowed some


PALEC
TESTING EQUIPMENT
Dependable, Profitable
MULTITESTER —ANALYSER-SELECTOR —VALVE TESTER—ALL-WAVE
OSCILLATOR —VACUUM-TUBE VOLTMETER.
The above instruments constitute a most complete outfit for the service man or radio
laboratory. All units the same size: 7?.in. x 82'n.. panels 6in. deep. Available singly
or in black leatherette-covered cases of two or three l ints, as illustrated.
ĸ
(A) MULTITESTER, D.C., A.C. volts.
Current, resistance, capacity,
inductance, impedance, electro-
lytic condenser capacity and
leakage. Power supply built in.
22 ranges. Price ... £l3/10/-
(B) ANALYSER-SELECTOR. For
■ current, voltage, resistance
ANALYSIS from any valve socket.
Price £2/19/6
(C) YALVE TESTER. Tests ' all
American, English and Dutch
tubes, including all latest types.
Tests for MICRO-LEAKS on
HEATED VALVE. Easy reading
valve test chart. Price, £ll/5/-.
(D) ALD-WAVE OSCILLATOR. I.F.
to highest R.F. by 5 bands of
fundamentals. Precision Dial
with vernier scale. Attenuates
to microvolts by new graduated
capacity attenuator. Battery-operated. Perfectly shielded. Price £ll/10/-
(E) VACUUM-TUBE VOLTMETER. Reads 50c.s. to high R.F., also D.C. on multi range
direct-reading - dial. Metal measuring - tube on 3ft. flexible lead. No grid leads —no pick-up.
Power supply built in. Most advanced design available anywhere. Price £ll/10/-
All Prices Are Subject to Sales Tax.
Combinations: A and B, £l6/10/-; A, B and C, £26/10/-; A, B and I), £26/10/-.
All Plus S'ales Tax.
Write for catalogue descriptive of full range,
including Palec Cathode Kay Oscillograph.
THE PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.
90 VICTORIA STREET, ASHFIELD, SYDNEY. Telephone: UA1960.
Distributors: —Sydney: Bloch and' Gerber, Fox and MacGillicuddy, Lawrence and Hanson.
Melbourne: A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty-, Ltd.
New Zealand: The Electric Lamp House, Ltd., ■Wellington.
ONE WEEK TO GO
Sydney’s 1936
Amateur Radio F xhibition
Organised by the N.S.W. Division, Wire-
less Institute of Australia. Open June 15
to 20, in Presbyterian Assembly Hall
(Lower Hall), Wynyard Square.
Not a cabinet display—but a scientific
demonstration of the latest ideas in
amateur and short-wave radio.
Inter-club and general amateur construc-
tional competitions, with valuable prizes
donated by prominent traders and manu-
facturers.
Competitions open to non-members at a
small entry fee.
Complete radiophone and telegraphy trans-
mitters in action. Experimental television
apparatus. Demonstrations of ultra-short-
wave working. Military display.
THE week and meeting place for all
interested in short-wave radio!
The exhibition will be open from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m. on June 15, 16, 18 and 19;
from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. on the 17th.
and from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on the 20th.
Admission 6d. Children 3d.
Exhibition committee:
H. F. Peterson, VK2HP
W. Ryan, VK2TI
W. M. Moore, VK3HZ
1). B. Knock, VK2NO
time to warm up. This is good practice,
and lengthens valve life, in addition to
preventing condenser breakdowns.
Fig. 3 shows the three sections of the
power supply with all values. Note that
the main high-tension supply is fitted with
modulation hum condensers, which are
worth while should a tuner unit for radio
pick-up ever be hooked up. Another
point to note is the arrangement of elec-
trolytic condensers. Ordinary small 440 v.
types are wired in series, and provide
cheap yet efficient smoothing. Hum level
is particularly low.
When the rig is operating at low
volume, as, for example, in a small hall
or large room, the high tension can be
reduced and current consumption propor-
tionately diminished by the operation of
the double-pole double-throw switch con-
nected to the high-tension transformer.
With the low-resistance chokes used, the
PX2s’s still receive something like 300
volts, and about two-thirds of the ampli-
fier’s full volume can be obtained on low
voltage before distortion sets in. There
is no audible change in the gain.
Field Excitation.
In order that the assembly may be
thoroughly flexible, it was decided that
a separate field supply be used. It would
have been easy to take the field current
from the main high-tension supply, but
when the amplifier was to be used for
a speech amplifier on a transmitter diffi-
culty would be experienced through the
upsetting of voltage values. A standard
radio transformer with 2.5-volt windings
and a secondary capable of at least
lOOma. is all that is required in conjunc-
tion with a type-80 rectifier and a couple
of cheap electrolytics to make a good
field exciter. A luxury not shown in the
diagram has been fitted to the original in
the shape of a double-pole single-throw
switch in the leads from the high-tension
secondary to the plates of the 80. This
permits of the field being switched off
while the remainder of the gear is kept
“alive.”
The fields (750 ohms each) are con-
nected to the output terminals marked
A, B and C. One pair of duals (indi-
vidual fields in series) is connected be-
tween A and B and the remaining pair
(again in series) between B and C. All
four speaker frames are earthed.
Other Gear Used.
As shown in Fig. 1 the amplifier is
minus any form of volume control. In
the writer’s opinion such controls are
best left on the far side of an input
transformer. For general P.A. work a
two-channel fader panel of very simple,
cheap, .yet effective design is used in
conjunction with a standard intervalve
coupling transformer. The primary is
joined to the output of the panel and the
secondary to the two input leads on the
amplifier. Space here does not permit
of a full description of the panel, but
it employs the principle outlined in
“Economical High-fidelity Volume Con-
trols” (B. 8/4/’36) and is very efficient.
The type PX2S valve used is a product
of the Marconi-Osram organisation in
England, and has proved itself excellent
for this work. Its ratings are: Filament,
4 volts at 2 amps. ; plate, 400 volts at
62.5 ma. ; grid bias, 33 (A,C. on fil.);
slope, Bma.-volt; load, 3200 ohms;
power output (class A, one valve), 5.5
watts. Approximate value of auto-bias
resistor, 530 ohms.
The type is fairly recent in design, and
is intended to replace the LS6A in some-
what the same way that the 2A3 super-
sedes the 50 in the American types. The
PX2S has shown itself capable of with-
standing the knocks and bumps that
come the way of most P.A. gear, in addi-
tion to supplying good amplification at
exceptionally good fidelity. It is advis-
able to order a matched pair when buy-
ing. The writer has had well over 18
months’ use from the original pair and.
it is estimated, much more than 1000
hours’ life, and they are still “perking”
as well as ever. Similar service is claimed
by an acquaintance in the P.A. game in
Perth who alternates them in his outfit
with PX4’s —the latter when low power
only is needed.
Built along the lines set down in the
foregoing, this amplifier will give excep-
tionally good results and prove itself ser-
viceable and flexible in operation.
R. H. A.
What's What in Radio.
TAL ORDELL, the A.B.C. storyteller;
he was a BULLETIN verse-writer and
Poverty Pointer.
“Querex” : Shocks from radio-trans-
mitting equipment are nothing new, but
the circumstances can be varied. From
Mudros in ’18 R.N.A.S. squadrons did
considerable bombing of Constantinople.
A big strafe was planned, and as duty
armorer I had charge of the arming of
several 230-pounders and placing them in
the racks ready for the night stunt. In
company with an assistant I struggled
underneath the fuselage of a DH9 to get
a big pill into position. Dangling in
proximity to the back of my neck was
the lead weight of the w.t. aerial, hang-
ing a few inches below the guide tube.
A w.t. mechanic, getting his gear ship-
shape, decided to test the transmitter, a
one-inch spark coil affair. As we labored
with the loaded bomb, a crackling nerve-
twisting flow of blue wattage discharged
itself through the path of least resistance
to earth, namely my neck, the bomb and
my assistant. The blue light that danced
before my sight convinced me temporarily
that I had reached the pearly portals and
that the big “baby” had gone oft. When
reason returned 1 was conscious of a
burnt neck, 2301 b. lying across my legs
and a fleeing assistant. Asa rule detona-
tors are not so indifferent to a hot fat
spark!
The new regional station. 2NR Law-
rence, is nearing completion, and will
soon be heard testing. Aircraft warning
lights are to be fitted to the 500 ft. tower,
since the mast itself is the radiator, and
carries 7kw. power. 2NR will be located
on the receiver dials midway between
2CO Corowa and 2BL Sydney. Pro-
grammes will be mainly relays from Syd-
ney, but portion of the broadcasts will
be from a local studio situated at Grafton
(N.S.W.) Town Hall. The station is ex-
pected to serve listeners on the North
Coast of N.S.W. from the Queensland
border down to Kempsey, and inland as
far as the Mountains. The cost, includ-
ing buildings and appliances of the most
modern type, was over £20,000.
The tower rests on six insulators, the
total supported weight being 142 tons.
The entire structure can be hydraulically
jacked to replace insulators, if necessary.
A unique feature is the circular top,
which, with its tuning coil, makes the
tower equivalent to a radiator 850 ft.
high. Buildings have been commenced
for three further national broadcasting
stations of lOkw. power at Cumnock
(N.S.W.), Murtoa (Vic.) and Wagin
(W.A.). They will use antennae similar to
2NR.
Amateur Chatter.
If prospective five-metre DX men need
heartening as to the possibilities, they
should take heed of the work done by
W6CNE. This is the star performer of
all five-metre DX stations, and, with only
45 watts input to two 80l’s in the final
of a C.C. rig, is heard at R7 in eastern
U.S.A. on single-valve super-regenerators.
On correctly-designed superhets his
signal is. MAX. The secret is the crystal-
controlled transmitter and the special
beam antenna array. Details of the
latter' are being sent to the writer, and
the information will be passed on in due
course. W6CNE told the writer by 20-
metre ’phone that he is now using the
latest Gordon five-metre superhet, and
that this is an amazing piece of work.
He fitted it with a Lamb noise silencer,
and can use it in a non-suppressed auto-
mobile without a trace of ignition!
The Amateur Exhibition promises to
be a big success. Mr. E. T. Fisk, of
A.W.A. (a past-president of the old
W.I.A.), will introduce, through VK2ME
and W2XAF, Mr. Handy, of A.R.R.L.,
who will declare the show open. Several
trade exhibitors have made late requests
for space. The entire organisation is in
the hands of the N.S.W. Division of the
Wireless Institute of Australia, the only
connection radio publications have with
the exhibition being the donation of
prizes.
VK2NO.
Latest in the Trade.
The second issue of the “Australasian
Radio World,” a new monthly radio
magazine with a definite constructor
appeal, has appeared on the bookstalls.
The editor, A. Earle Read, B.Sc., was pre-
viously editor of New Zealand “Radio
Times,” and, with many years of experi-
ence, knows the kind of material techni-
cal readers enjoy. First and foremost,
the new magazine is of the “how-to-make-
it” kind; there are articles on multi-
valve dual-wave superhets, R.F. regenera-
tion, simple short-wave sets and a large
section devoted to the DX hunter. Well
printed, and with clear diagrams and
illustrations, it is a good shillingsworth.
* * * *
There is no end to the procession of
valves. To-day the technician has a vast
array to choose from. The latest, from
Philips, is a new series of 6.3 types, fitted
with the P-type base, and extremely
attractive characteristics. The advan-
tages of 6.3-volt valves are well estab-
lished, and Philips have, in these new
metal-clad A.C. series, reduced the heater
current considerably.
The EK2 is the octode, of a self-
neutralised type, taking .2 ampere. For
R.F. amplification there is the EFS, a
variable MU R.F. pentode, also a .2
ampere. With similar heater character-
islics are the EB4 twin-diode, the EBC3
duo-diode-triode, the EBFI duo-diode-
pentode, the EF6 R.F. pentode and the
HL2 power pentode. The ELS is a high
MU power pentode, 6.3 volts at 1.2 am-
peres, and the ELS a super-power high
MU pentode, 6.3 volts at 1.3 amperes,
The range is completed by the EZ2
full-wave vacuum rectifier, indirectly
heated, 6.3 volts at .25 ampere, 350 volts
per plate, 60ma. D.C. output; the EZ3
full-wave vacuum rectifier, 6.3 volts at
.65 ampere, 350 volts per plate, lOOma.
D.C. output, and the EZ4 full-wave
vacuum rectifier, 6.3 volts at .9 ampere,
volts pei plate, and 175 ma. D.C.
out . Pu t;. . , , . '
riu^P^ 1 5 atlon are obtainable from
Philips Lamps, Clarence-street, Sydney.
lUu J rated is "' a samp i e of an excel-
j ent ]y designed British short-wave vari-
able condenser, of which Price’s Radio
Service, Angel-place, Sydney, has a few
available. This is the Jackson ,00015mfd.
model, and is the kind of condenser the
short-wave enthusiast dreams about.
Noiseless, smooth in action and with the
rotor insulated from the frame, it is
reasonably priced. The rotor and stator
plates are of hard, burnished brass and
the rigid brass frame is designed to
avoid “closed loop” effects. The insula-
tion is of high-grade R.F. material.
Several new types of British radio com-
ponents are on the water, and will soon
be available at Price’s.
The Q. and A. Column.
I have built the Wide-World Four (de-
scribed (B. 2/1/’35), and the signals literally
“thump in,” but there are one or two things
that do not appear to he quite right. (1) /
found after trouble with the R.F. potentiometer
that the current in the 32 was about 10 ma.
Total current for all four valves is between
20 ma. and 30 ma., according to signal (20 ma.
no signal). This seems excessive. What can
be wrong ? (2) I have had to reduce turns on
all cathode coils to get smooth working, and
with the broadcast cods the set still oscillates
without any cathode turns when the circuits are
in resonance. J suspected the grid coupling
condenser, but the signals on short wave are
not “pulled” by detuning the R.F. condenser.
(3) Ffave any special precautions to be taken
when using a genemotor on short waves to
eliminate noise ? —430.
(1) The total current drain, and certainly that
of the R.F. valve, is too high. There must
be a steady leakage somewhere. Perhaps the
insulating washers for the potentiometers (often
troublesome) are responsible. The driver valve
should be biased just to the point where distor-
tion starts. Valves themselves may be faulty. (2)
Reduce the coupling between grid and cathode
coils to control oscillation to any required
position of the potentiometer control, but in
the case of the broadcast coils it may be
necessary to screen completely. The trouble is
due to interlocking, which is introduced by the
greater mass of inductance in the larger coils.
Sometimes the use of a double screen partition
between R.F. and detector stages is effective.
Two metal screens are used in this case, with
a space of about one inch between. (3) Yes,
although it is understood that special gene-
motors are now available for use on short
waves. Precautions to be taken are filtering
of the input and output, complete screening
of the generator and the use of screened leads
to the receiver.


«SILVER
EDGE"
tJ&iAciit&v
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LININQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd,, London, England,
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Via
The Steering Column.
STUDEBAKER DICTATOR TESTED
ON WET ROADS.
COMFORT AND SAFETY OUTSTANDING FEATURES.
BY FRED BERRY.
DIONEERS of the freewheeling system, Studebakers have in
* each succeeding model, kept abreast of accepted engineering
practice, particularly when such new ideas concern safety and
roadworthiness. It is not surprising, therefore, to find the ’36
series Dictator, tested recently over the “Bulletin” course,
giving an extremely satisfactory road performance and incor-
porating in design several new features which provide additional
safety, comfort and economy.
The newly-designed front-end suspension is a valuable asset
when cornering at speed, the car steering positively and main-
taining an even keel even when grossly overdriven through
acute bends. With the automatic overdrive and freewheeling
unit fitted, the motor should have a longer useful life than the
conventional types, and fuel and oil consumption should show a
corresponding improvement. Further, owing to lower engine
revs, at any road speed, the absence of vibration and power roar
from the motor will certainly increase the pleasure of driving.
Developing 90 b.p.h. at 3400 r.p.m.
using a compression ratio of 6.3 to 1, the
six-cylinder motor has a bore of 3?in.,
stroke 4|in., swept volume 217.8 cubic
inches and an R.A.C. horse-power rating
of 25.4. Cylinder block is cast integral
with the upper half of the crankcase,
which is heavily ribbed to provide rigid
support for main bearings.
Pistons are aluminium alloy—cam
ground and elliptical in shape in order to
provide even clearances when operated
at high temperatures —with two compres-
sion and one oil-retaining ring located
above the gudgeon pin. Ten small holes
are drilled in the bottom of the oil-
control ring groove to provide a
drain back for oil scraped from
cylinder walls. Connecting rods, I
section, are of drop-forged alloy
steel, bearings being steel-backed
with lead-bronze linings, and are
prevented from turning by small
tongues extending from shells.
Crankshaft, running on four large sleel-
backed, babbitt-lined bearings, is bal-
anced statically and dynamically, coun-
terweighted and fitted with vibration
damper on forward end. Camshaft runs
on four steel-backed babbitt bearings and
is driven from crankshaft by a train of
helical-cut silent gears. Side-by-side
Rear of engine is mounted on a wide
live-rubber cushion, bonded to a
pressed-steel cross member.
valves are used ; inlets of chrome nickel
steel, exhausts of heat-resisting sili-
chrome steel. Valve guides are an integral
part of cylinder block. Tappet gear is
adjustable, clearance between valve
stems and tappets being 16 thou, cold
both for exhaust and inlets. Valve springs
are fitted with “dampers” to prevent dis-
Clean exterior and graceful lines of the Studebaker Dictator.
tortion and “floating” at high engine
speeds. The valve-timing inlet opens 15
degrees before and closes 49 degrees after
dead centre ; exhaust opens 54 degrees
before and closes 10 degrees after dead
centre.
Lubricating oil is forced by means of
a mechanical pump to all main, connect-
ing-rod and camshaft bearings and valve
lifters. Baffle plates in crankcase prevent
oil from swirling from pump assembly
when cornering or on steep grades. A
hinged, floating unit on the suction side
of the oil line ensures only clean oil
being drawn through pump irrespective
of level in the sump.
Cooling system is controlled by ther-
mostat mounted between engine outlet
and radiator which, remaining closed
until a temperature of from 140 to 150
degrees F. is reached, ensures rapid
warming up when starting from cold. An
impeller type water pump is driven, to-
gether with the four-bladed fan and the
generator, by flexible rubber belt from
pulley on crankshaft.
Electrical equipment is single-unit type
six volts. Generator, heavy-duty design,
is equipped with voltage control, and in
normal running supplies a charge of 16
to 19 amperes. Maximum charge is
reached at a road speed of 20 m.p.h. in
lop gear. Starter motor, actuated by
solenoid connected in ignition switch cir-
cuit, turns the engine at 110 r.p.m., draw-
ing 60 amps, under normal conditions.
Ignition is by coil and battery, automatic
advance of 21 degrees being provided for
in the distributor assembly. Firing order
is 1-5-3-6-2-4, spark-plug gap 25 thou.,
distributor make and break 20 thou.
Fuel is held in a 15gal. lank at rear
and drawn by a mechanical pump
shielded from exhaust heat and driven
from camshaft to a Stroniberg single-tube
type down-draft carburettor. Provision
is made for adjustment of low-speed
idling and for the amount of fuel de-
livered by the accelerating pump to com-
ply with winter- and summer-driving con-
ditions. Smaller main jets can be fitted
where greater economy is essential.
Choke setting is automatically controlled
by thermostat, the coil of which is en-
closed in a metal case, marked off in
degrees and capable of manual adjust-
ment to suit peculiar operating condi-
tions. An efficient air-cleaner and intake
c ;i„.,„ er j s apachej t G the carburettor
intake.
Engine and gearbox are “unit” con-
struction, and suspended in the chassis,
front and rear on live, bonded-rubber
supports.
Transmission is through single-plate,
dry-disc clutch fitted with damper springs
to eliminate vibration
and enclosed in a “ven-
tilated” housing to a
three-speed-and-reverse
gearbox fitted with an
overdrive unit. Gears
are helical-cut, silent
synchromesh type.
The purpose of the
overdrive is to. reduce
engine revs, at high
road speeds, coming
into action automati-
cally between 48 and 53 in.p.h., when
engine revs, drop 33 1-3 p.c. while still
maintaining the same road speed. Up r o
the point when overdrive cuts in the car
freewheels when foot is taken off the
accelerator pedal, and gears may be
changed silently without moving the
clutch pedal. A simple push-pull control
located on the instrument panel allows
the operator to use freewheel and over-
drive or conventional gear as desired.
Final drive is by tubular propeller shall
with needle-roller bearing universals fore
and aft to rear-axle assembly in banjo-
type pressed-steel housing. Axles are
semi-floating type. Ring gear spiral
bevel design with reduction ratio of 4.55
to 1. Ratios in gearbox are: Top direct,
second 1.55 to 1, low 2.57 to 1 and re-
verse 3.48 to 1.
Chassis is box section with X-cross
bracing in centre and keystone arch con-
struction in front. Conventional semi-
elliptic springs are fitted to rear, attached
to chassis by threaded shackles, but' in
the 4A model Dictator tested front
wheels were fitted with independent sus-
pension, each wheel being attached to a
flat, multiple-leaf, transverse spring en-
cased in metal cover. Double-acting ad-
justable hydraulic shock-absorbers are
fitted front and rear. Wheelbase is 116 in.
and the minimum ground clearance 7jin.
Brakes are new-type, self-equalising
hydraulic on all four wheels. The hand-
brake cable is operated through indepen-
dent linkage on rear wheels. An auto-
matic “hill holder” which facilitates gear-
Sectional view of Stromberg carburettor,
showing (1) poppet valve, (2) high-speed
bleeder, (3) idle tube, (4) float-chamber
cover, (5) float vent, (6) float, (7) needle
valve, (8) seating, (9) fuel inlet, (10) float
hinge, (11) main-jet plug, (12) main jet,
(13) throttle valve, (14) idle discharge
holes, (15) idle needle valve, (16) primary
venturi, (17) auxiliary venturi, (18) main
discharge jet, (19) choke valve, (32) idle
air bleeder.
changing' on upgrades by holding
hydraulic pressure of brakes as long as
clutch is held out is optional at slightly
extra cost.
Cross-type, cam and lever steering
gear is used ; gearbox reduction is
15 to I, and the thin-grip, three-
spoke, steel-core steering wheel
17in. in diameter. Turning circle
both I. and r. lock is 38ft. Sin.
Body is all steel, bolted directly
to side and top of frame mem-
bers. Insulation against noise
and changes of temperature has
been given special attention.
Safety glass is standard in the
V-type windscreen. Effective
ventilation has been secured by
adjustable front and rear quarter
windows, together with shielded
cowl scoop. Duplex windscreen
wipers operate from below. The
instrument panel includes
large fan-shaped speedometer
and the usual precision instru-
ments, all, including switch
key, indirectly lighted. In-
terior hardware and fittings are neatly
designed, and include adjustable sun
visors, rear vision mirror, dome lights,
ash receivers, robe rails, footrests, etc.
Front seats in closed models are adjust-
able for length.
Planar-type independent front-wheel suspension, fitted
to de luxe models.
The car tested was a Dictator series
de luxe four-door sedan, driven by T. H.
Cottle, of Autocars. Speedometer mile-
age was 2108, and weight, inclusive of
passenger, driver and fuel tank, 34icwt.
As for some days previously rain had
fallen and the test was commenced in
heavy showers, the course was more dif-
ficult than is usual, but the machine is
so nicely balanced and so positive in
steering that a sense of confidence was
engendered, however greasy the roadway.
On the open road past Baulkham Hills
a cruising speed of around 50 m.p.h. was
maintained, and after the automatic over-
drive had come into operation engine
revs, were reduced to such a degree that
motor noise or vibration was scarcely
perceptible. As would be expected with
the “high top” overdrive gearing, top-
gear acceleration from 50 onwards ?s
not so good as in conventional drive,
and the engine takes appreciably longei
to wind-up to its peak power, but mam-
road hills were negotiated in high top
with ease, and in such cases where speed
drops below 40 m.p.h. the low top ana
conventional drive automatically comes
into operation.


USEFUL DATA ON STUDEBAKER
DICTATOR.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 6 2-5
seconds. _
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 2-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft.
Maximum speed, 76.92 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.7 m.p.g.
At Last
OL
eC, *nADE
MOTOR
GREASE
★
made by the makers of
Valvoline Sealed Oil.
Now available in 2 lb. Tins,
2'B. Ask your Garageman.
*
Advt. of I. CARRIGAN, Sydney, Melbourne and throughout Australia
“CALLING ALL CARS'
All Cars, All Trucks, All Garages, have need of these modern “Quality” Tools.
“VAN-CHROME” TAPPET WRENCHES.
15° Angle. Drop-forged from Chrome
Vanadium Steel.
The thin, long and narrow-pointed jaws pro-
vide the greatest accessibility to any tapped
nuts and are set at just the right pitch.
Their unusual strength lies in the durable
quality of the Chrome Vanadium Alloy Steel
from which they are plus the
advanced heat-treating methods employed.
Openings :
7/16 and 17/32; i and 9/16; | and 11/16;
i and
Black Enamel Finish.
Price, 21/6 per set. Postage extra.
“VAN-CHROME”
AUTOMOTIVE WRENCHES.
The lightest, thinnest, longest
and strongest wrenches of their
type, drop-forged from Chrome
Vanadium Steel.
The pointed jaws and thin,
narrow heads reach into places
where other wrenches won’t.
The extra length provides
more leverage and accessibility.
They are finished in double
nickelplate, over copper, with
mirror-polished heads.
Set contains six “Van-Chrome”
Wrenches.
Provides openings from
fin. to lin.
In flannel-lined leatherette
Weight* 8 3flb.
Price, 28/6 per set.
Postage extra.
“VAN-CHROME”
MULTIHEX BOX
WRENCHES.
Drop-Forged from
Chrome Vanadium
Steel.
The abrupt offset
of the head reaches
sunken nuts and
gets around
obstructions. Extra
thin side walls and
generous leverage.
The only box
wrench made that
reaches those em-
bedded spark plugs.
Finished in velvety-
smooth satin nickel,
with brightly-
polished heads.
Openings:
§ x 7/16 ; ix 9/10;
f x 11/16;
3 x 25/32;
13/16 x J.
Price, 25/- per set.
Postage extra.
FREE!
Our large illustrated catalogue, packed with infor-
mation of value to every motorist. Hundreds of tools
shown with prices.
Send this coupon now.
NAME
Please Send Me POST FREE Your Catalogue.
ADDRESS
MSPliersorfs)
Proprietary Limited V*
51-65 Bathurst Street SYDNEY
546-566 Collins Street MELBOURNE
116-130 Waymoulh Street ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street PERTH
Reducing speed to 15 m.p.h. at Pitt
Town, the car allowed to coast in
neutral covered 682 yards before coming
to a standstill. Testing maximum speed
over the measured mile, overdrive was
used, and with the limited run up avail-
able the car had not reached its maxi-
mum on entering the timed section. Cross-
ing the finishing line
at approximately 80
m.p.h., the distance
was clocked in 46
4-ssec., an average
speed of 76.92 m.p.h.
Passing through
Richmond and ap-
proaching Kurrajong
Mountain a deviation
from the main high-
way through Grose
Vale was made, and
over this narrow clay
surface, rendered al-
most dangerous as the
result of the rains, the
Studebaker held the road excellently,
even on the sharpest corners.
Arriving at Kurrajong Mountain the
final 2 1-5 miles, including several diffi-
cult hairpin bends, was selected as a test of
hill-climbing, the distance being clocked
in 3min. 33sec. Throughout the climb
Phantom view of helical-cut silent transmission gears
and overdrive assembly.
second and top gears were used, and the
car was particularly steady on corners.
Over several hundred yards of the final
wet section the car, although driven
on full throttle in second gear, gave no
indication of sideslip.
Returning down the mountain the
hand-brake, located on the extreme light
side of the driver’s compartment, was
applied, and the car from 15 m.p.h. pulled
up smoothly and definitely.
Proceeding via the Castlereagh road to
Penrith various traffic tests were made.
First slow-running 350 yards, followed
immediately by 350 yards accelerated in
conventional top. The slow-running sec-
tion took 2min. 45sec., showing an aver-
age of 4.3 m.p.h., and acceleration, cross-
ing the finishing line
at 60 m.p.h., took
16 l-ssec. at an
average 43.3 m.p.h.
From 10 to 30
m.p.h. in top was
limed in 6 2-ssec.,
from 10 to 30
m.p.h. in second in
4 2-ssec., and from
stand s t i 11 to 50
m.p.h. in 12 l-ssec.,
revealing possibili-
ties of the Stude-
baker in conven-
tional gear. Service
brakes, tested at 25
m.p.h., stopped the
car in 22ft.
On completing
the journey of 117
miles at an average
speed of 34.8
m.p.h., fuel used
on the test was
measured and
found to be sgal.
3 pints, averaging 21.7 m.p.g. (37.2
ton miles) —a splendid result having
regard to the difficult conditions en-
countered.
“Jeffo”: Driving home in the wee
sma’ hours in a Crossley that had seen
better days I was brought to a standstill
by the violent boiling of the engine.
Lifted up the bonnet and, when the
steam cleared away, discerned that the
engine was still there, though well stained
with rusty water. I concluded that the
trouble was serious and, as all garages
were shut, rang up a towing station and
was towed to their yard—cost £1 ; taxi
home Bs. 6d. Next morning tripped out
to inspect the ruins and found it was all
due to a burst hose connection ; repair Is.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
W.K. (Bringelly, N.S.W.).—My six-cylinder
car (33,000 miles ) vibrates badly, the trouble
appearing to come from the front wheels.
New king pins and bushes have been fitted
and tie rod and drag link tightened without
curing the trouble. Any suggestions ?
The car should be taken to a city service
station equipped with gear for accurately
measuring and checking front-end geometry.
Fault should then be immediately evident.
* * * *
W.O.S. (Bathurst, N.S.W.). — The headlights
of my ’35 six-cylinder car do not give sufficient
light for fast driving on country roads. I
have had the battery charged and all wiring
examined, but although lights are brilliant white
I find difficulty in discerning any object at night
more than lOOyrfj. away. Further, it does not
seem to make any difference when the dip
switch is pressed. Any suggestions ?
Your headlights are tilt-beam type, using
globes with two separate filaments, one in true
focus of the parabolic reflector serving for the
driving beam and the other, out of centre,
throwing the light rays immediately in front
of the car. If these globes and connections are
not correctly fitted you will have one head-
light throwing a driving beam and the other a
tilt beam, which will account for the poor
illumination of distant objects.
E.McS. (Mudgee, N.S.W.).—My ’35 model
six-cylinder car has now run 18,400 miles.
How can I decide whether decarbonising is
necessary ? Pulling and maximum speed
appear to be equal to when new, although the
engine now pings a good deal when climbing
hills on full power.
The length of time an engine will operate
efficiently before requiring decoking is
influenced by the quality of fuel and oil used
and whether the design includes air-cleaner and
oil-purifier. If you are consistently using the
same brand of petrol and the engine had not
before pinked on hills the fact that it does
now is evidence of excessive carbon deposit
in the combustion chamber. It is a good
policy when taking over a new car to have the
heads removed and valves touched up at be-
tween 8000 and 10,000 miles. After that 20,000
miles should elapse before decarbonising will
be found necessary.
E.F. (Vaucluse, N.S.W.) asked in B.
20/5/’36 for particulars of Continental engine
type 14(7.
Further details supplied by a correspondent:
Bore 3-fin., stroke 4fin., R.A.C. rating 25.4 h.p.
Fitted to ’26, ’27 and ’2B Flint model 60 cars.
§ '|» •!*
V.X. (Goulburn, N.S.W.). — According to in-
struction book issued with my new car valve
clearances are supposed to be four thou, ex-
haust, six thou, inlet. My previous engines
used about eight thou, for all valves. Is there
any reason why this clearance should not be
used on the new motor ?
Every valve must be given enough clearance
;o avoid binding on tappet guide even when
engine is driven hard for long periods, and the
clearances recommended provide for such con-
tingencies and have a definite influence upon
valve timing. Reason for different clearances
between inlet and exhaust is probably due to
varying expansion co-efficient of each metal.
D.L. (Wellington, N.S.W Recently my '34
model six-cylinder car began to boil on the
slightest provocation. Radiator and water
system have been flushed out without curing
trouble, but when the thermostat was taken out
of the top water outlet the motor ran cool all
day. Trouble is it now takes too long to
warm up in morning. Can the temperature-
control unit be adjusted ?
To test thermostat unit, place it in a pail of
water with a thermometer reading to 212 deg.
F. Heat water, and if the diaphragm has not
fractured or lever seized the valve should be
observed to gradually open between 145-
ISOdeg., and should be fully open at about
175 deg. Should valve remain closed, replace
with new unit.
1637.- On returning from a trip I found bat-
tery flat and discharge showing on ammeter
with ignition switched off. Fuse in cutout was
blown, and on wrapping this with tinfoil got
home on a borrowed battery. Cause and cure ?
Symptoms point to the cutout points having
stuck open, in which case the fuse would blow
and the battery discharge continuously at a
high rate. Have cutout properly adjusted at
a good service station. Also see a new fuse
is inserted, for there is danger of further
complications if the tinfoil makeshift will not
break down at the designed load.
:|; v
E.N.W. (Tamworth, N.S.W.) asks where
jacks such as described in cutting enclosed are
obtainable.
Write to spare-parts department, Dalgety and
Co., Ltd., Phillip-street, Sydney.
R. Bowles (Garah, N.S.W.). — My ’26 Buick
has been out of commission for some time, and
now the wiring is all mixed up. Can you
tell me the right order to wire plugs ?
Distributor is marked. Plugs should fire
1,4, 2,6, 3, 5.
* * * *
J.V. (Seymour, Vic.). — For a long time I
have had intermittent ignition trouble in my
six-cylinder ’33 model car, more particularly
when starting up in cold, wet weather. Plugs
have been renewed, and there is a good spark
from the central h.t. lead. Motor pulls well
when warm, but exhaust note appears to be
uneven at all engine speeds. Any suggestions ?
Apparently the spark is not passing to plugs
in correct sequence, and a defect will probably
be located in distributor head—either a crack
in the bakelite cover, condensed moisture or
excess carbon collecting on the inner surface,
causing two or more plugs to fire simultane-
ously. Suggest removing distributor cover,
washing with petrol and thoroughly drying,
then examining for cracks or carbon lines with
reading glass. Cracks may be temporarily re-
paired by first scraping with a sharp tool and
filling in with sealing wax, but the only certain
remedy will be to fit a new head.


THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a : direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
‘‘The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
HIGH PRAISE
IS GIVEN
“The Mail"
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
All, the news from everywhere
. . . All Saturday’s sport . . . First
in the State for pictorial interest
. . . Packed with entertainment in
its magazine sections . Features
and advertising in four colors.
A.B.C. Certificate. 61,361.
Where else
Could YOU
Advertise
9
Representation :
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newsoaoer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—P A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
‘The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
IiET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, 1 Sydney; A. (1. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
in
ADVERTISING
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Eet. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
■ i
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN . LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
023
Full Information. Copies, Advertising Rates from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-7 S Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
You can’t
ignore
It is the ONLY STAXIOX
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONIiY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
She was wearing rubber-soled shoes, and made
a noiseless entry to the living-room. Murdoch was
standing over by the table.
“Hullo,” said Joyce. “Can I do anything for
you?”
He gave a great start and turned round in a
hurry.
“I wish you wouldn’t sneak about in those rubber
things!” he exclaimed explosively and quite in his
earlier manner.
Joyce saw that he had been taken by surprise.
He was staring at her with a fixed look of embarrass-
ment.
“I wasn’t reading your letter,” he said.
“I hope not.”
“I came to see you about Ah Chan. Is he bad?”
“Bad enough.”
“What’s the matter with him?”
“I don’t know yet. It may be blackwater—or
typhoid.”
He whistled softly.
“Exit Ah Chan. I’ll call later. You may be able
to tell me something definite by this evening.”
He went away without saying more, and Joyce
gathered up her letter and put the sheets in a large
envelope.
By the next morning Ah Chan was definitely
a typhoid case, and Joyce could see from the first
that the little Chinaman was without the strength
to fight it. She did what she could for him, and went
off to the copra lease. That day was a full one, and
when she came back in the evening she was more
than usually tired. After dinner she was glad to sit
quietly on the verandah and look at the stars and
the dim crest of Weary Mountain and think lazily
of Paul.
Afterwards she went inside and selected a book
for an hour’s reading before bed. But she was rest-
less, and the book could not hold her attention. At
first she thought that this might be because of her
thoughts of Paul, which kept returning upon her,
wooing her to the laziness of reverie. But when she
put the book aside she found that he was no longer
in her thoughts, or at least that he was only vaguely
there and could not be visualised with the usual power
of those who love.
Joyce began to feel afraid of nervous exhaustion,
and stretched herself among cushions on a cane
lounge. But relaxation was no longer possible. Her
thoughts wavered and were confused. The panel of
utter darkness towards which she turned her mind
became the background for strange and half-formed
figures. The image of a sorcerer she had seen in a
native village rose towards her like a sudden enlarge-
ment on a screen: the painted features strained into a
threatening grimace, and the whole figure of the man
caught into an unnatural rigidity. Thin hands were
thrust towards her until she drew back to escape the
long nails ; the face drew nearer and was enlarged.
Distended eyeballs looked smokily into her own.
With a wild cry she started up from the lounge,
half expecting to see the sorcerer squatting on the
threshold of the room. But no one was there, and
she came to the verandah and breathed night air. The
stars were gone ; one of the sudden blankets of cloud
which came down of nights from Weary Mountain
had settled above the clearing. A light was shining
from the front room of Murdoch’s bungalow, and in
a longing for human company she hurried down the
steps and walked across the open ground with no
more than a quick, unwilling thought of the darkness
around her.
Murdoch was sitting in his poorly-furnished living
room, quite motionless in an armchair. Joyce paused
on the threshold, and saw that he had not heard her
steps on the verandah. He was facing her, but his
head was bent towards the floor and the eyes were
closed. Not until now had she seen the strength of
the man so clearly indicated. All expression had been
drawn from his face, and in the masklike stillness
the framework of bone seemed to stand up in relief,
giving his head the look of some old Roman leader
modelled in bronze for a pedestal in the forum.
She was suddenly convinced that he was thinking
of her. A memory of that distant night of fear, when
a primal hate had risen towards her like a miasmatic
vapor from the jungle swamps came rushing like a
disturbance in her blood.
“Murdoch!” she exclaimed.
He opened his eyes but without sign of shock—
almost as if she had been too clearly visible in his
mind to surprise him with her tangible presence.. For
a moment, however, he had a faintly-dazed look, and
was slow in rising from his chair.
“Don’t get up,” said Joyce, coming into the room.
“1 can talk to you better while I can look down on
you.”
“You sound angry,” he replied, making no move
to return to the chair.
“I am angry,”
■Nevertheless her voice was not steady, and she
knew that she was feeling more disappointment than
anger. ,
“You’ve been playing the sorcerer, again,” she
said accusingly, “1 felt your thought strike in upon
me out of the darkness, and this time it took an ugly
shape. I think you could have spared me this sort
of thing.”
He made no attempt to deny her accusation, but
stood before her, sullenly immobile.
“You can’t blame me for thinking about you,’’
he said at last..
“Of course not.”' Her voice was gentler. Now
that the fear was gone she was able to discover some-
thing to be pitied in him. “But surely you can think
of me a little more healthily. This sort of thing is
dark. And I don’t understand your motive. Is there
any satisfaction in frightening me? Are you trying
to get me under your influence? I scarcely think so.
You’re not a fool, and you must know I’m not a
weak-minded creature, to be swayed and overborne
by a strong will. And at this time, too. I’m armed in
anew way.”
“I know,” he broke in quickly. “You’re in love
with that fellow Burnley.”
There was a sudden silence between them. Joyce
chose a chair furthest from the lamp, and sat down.
Murdoch remained standing, his shadow extended
beyond him across the wall like the outline of his
larger self. She could not see his face.
“You’ll marry him,” he said gruffly. “There’s
nothing surer. I expected it from the first.”
She wanted to speak quietly and naturally, admit-
ting her love for Paul. But his unspoken disapproval
forced her towards a jauntiness that she knew was
out of place. ,
“You’re quite right for once. I hope the matcn
will have your approval.”
“No! ” he burst out violently. “It won t.
He turned towards her.
“It’s none of my business. But you're not suite
to each other, and if there’s no one else to tell you
I’m not going to shirk the job myself.”
“It’s nice of you to be interested”
He would not allow her to go on.
“There’s no great love between you and me, lot
some reason or other. But I know a real woman
when I see her, and I've had time and opportunity
to find out a good deal about you. I suppose you ve
got to marry sooner or later. Why not? But for
God’s sake make a job of it! There’s waste enough
in Nature’s scheme of things —you can see it by walk-
ing .a hundred yards into the jungle. That’s why the
good things are worth saving. And if you’re going
to express yourself in a proper way in this life you II
have to find a better mate than Burnley.”
“You don’t know him,” said Joyce indignantly.
“What right have you to judge him so quickly?
“The right of a'man’s instincts. A woman trusts
to her heart and thinks it infallible. That’s why
there’s so much mismating in the world. I tell you
it takes a man. to know a man. Not that I’ve anything
much against Burnley. He has his points, I suppose.
But I know that you fell in love with him because he
had a nice blue eye and crisp brown hair. And you
were lonely. He made a good contrast for me ; I
shouldn’t be surprised if it were partly my fault. It
you hadn’t been buried down here with an uncouth
brute like myself you wouldn’t have been ready to
fall into the arms of the first good-looking young
man to come your way. I’m telling you the truth,
Joyce Manson!”
“Much obliged, I’m sure. But I’m afraid this
is going to make our relationship rather a poor thing
in the future.”
“You needn’t worry. I’m through. They ve
arranged my furlough. It’s long overdue, and in a
few weeks I’ll be leaving for a six months’ spell. You
won’t have to see much more of me. That’s why
I’jm telling you now, for the first and last time, that
you and Paul Burnley are not meant for each other.
He shrugged his shoulders clumsily as if he half-
regretted the outburst.
“I don’t suppose it will matter in the long run,
and I’m a fool to give" it a thought. What’s one
woman, more or less?”
Joyce knew that she could not hope to remove
his prejudice.
“It’s nice to have had your congratulations,” she
said, getting up to go.
He was standing by the table, and the glow of the
lamp was around him. In the warm night he looked
damp and dishevelled and yet somehow impressive.
“I’ve said too much. You’ll hate me more than
ever, I suppose.”
She went up to him impulsively.
“I don’t hate you, Murdoch.”
A curious smile passed across his face.
“That’s something, anyway.”
Silence came between them again. Joyce wanted
to say something more, but no words came. A
moment later she left him.
{To be continued next week.)


“I, like many others ,
■ \4 ' ■ . .’{ , . ■ ‘ f
/jaJ the wrong attitude towards
PYORRHEA”
(Meet the trouble
when it comes)
m
m*i: I
m
HE time to meet Pyorrhea is now, right now. That
* is the only way to get ahead of it. You cannot
recognise the early stages. Only your Dentist can do
. that. The tragedy of this disease is that it does not
show itself to the unpractised eye.
Pyorrhea may be destroying your gums and under-
mining your teeth for years —unseen and unfelt. But
when it strikes, it strikes hard, it is no respecter of tooth-
cleanliness. Clean teeth go the way of others. This
one gum disease is actually responsible for half of the
adult teeth which are lost.
Guard against Pyorrhea
Mi
i
tm
UJr
' f /:
- U I
*
•- tl r
mm
:' :
*mm
mm
'" I
< # 1/ /
I
'■7 /:
Don’t wait. Start at once
to protect yourself against
Pyorrhea. See your
Dentist, and see him regu-
larly. He understands
the necessity for preven-
tion .
The name most closely associated with Pyorrhea is
that of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., 26 years a specialist.
Thousands of Dentists throughout the world are using
his Pyorrhea Formula in their professional treatments.
Ffowever, for home treatment, his Formula is embodied
in the Dentifrice which bears his name.
Adopt this protection
It is an acknowledged fact that four out of five
persons past the age of forty are Pyorrhea victims. Don’t
you be one of them. Brush your teeth and gums with
Forhan’s night and morning. Remember that the
expense of Forhan’s is a saving ultimately. Forhan’s
completes the double job of cleaning teeth and protect-
ing gums from Pyorrhea.
Don’t wait for symptoms; end the trouble before it
begins. Keep Pyorrhea—its disfigurements and train
of dangerous ills—away by using “Forhan’s for the
Gums.” Adopt this health insurance now .
Price 2/-; extra large tube 3/-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gams
PREVENTS PYORRH
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30J-.)
X
.crt *
\ c. X
v<* v *>
]r
w 5, . \0 _5 7 ,«6 V
,fe\
.•tf
I«V ~
*
\'S-
A C V> V^
o' .•• .-• , tv^S * Jel „.
O'


Announcing
Sole Selling Agents
for
Commonwealth of Australia
QUINNEY’S LIMITED
UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephones: 84908—-8W6444 . Cables and Telegrams:
Bankers:— Quinney’s. Sydney.
Bank of iV. S* Wales» Head Office, Sydney .
for
TRUST OF BRITISH BANK AND
INSURANCE SHARES
TRUST OF BRITISH INSURANCE
SHARES
he Security of the Empire”
For further information and Booklets, write to—
Dept “R,” Quinney’s, Limited, Financial Consultants,
Box 36285, G.P.0., Sydney.
