

w
■:
2$
R
M
r
m
-=i[
i '• ! i I /
;
ill ill
if
;
Mi
4flHll
=3
Ef
-ts
A RAINY night traffic-clogged streets the fear of acci-
** dent lurking with every cross-road. The familiar cloaked
figure standing straight and undaunted at his post, unweaving
the mesh of traffic and dispelling the fears of motorists and
pedestrians alike The Police Officer, Symbol of Safety and
Guardian of the people’s interests.
So Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. stands guardian over the inter-
ests of the investing public, giving them that assurance of safety
and security, which comes from an unparalleled knowledge of
the investment markets of the Southern Hemisphere.
The principle of offering shareholdings in ESTABLISHED Com-
panies only, guarantees results with security; furthermore,
the policy which guarantees that balance sheets and full infor-
mation regarding investments is available at all times to the
investor, ensures both Safety and Security. A free service, cov-
ering such information, together with the monthly circular,
“PROFITS,” is available, free, on application to :
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING. MARGARET STREET. SYDNEY*
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
6.P.0. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
n
Chamber of Manufacturers' Bldg.,
14 Pirle Street,
ADELAIDE,
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, NZ.
The Bulletin
A Nazi Night in Sydney
Vol. 57.—N0. 2923.
Wednesday, February 19, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post OUce, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
“THE BLOCK,”
4 24-426 George Street, Sydney.
Pymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
LTD.,
Learn
Siom
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell street, Melbourne.
■ - CUT HERE AND MAID .
B.S: ZL^LPSItXT'
advertised in the Sydney
Mg Name ....
My Address ...
S.B. ISC
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees ave ec ’d e d .that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted-
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SELECTED
STORIES
Modem Short
Stories (L ov a t
Dickson and
Thompson ;
Dymock’s; ss.
sentence that might well scare the timid:
“Two unmarried fishermen, Nat and
Henry Treen, lived with their aged
mother in a cottage on a cliff.” On tech-
nical grounds it is about as near perfect
a short-story opening sentence as it is
possible to write. In less than 20 words,
without a hint of unnatural congestion,
it packs a great amount of information’
and gives a clear lead into the narrative
There is hardly a word of it that is not
an image-maker. One interested in tech-
nique might turn it over like a jewel;
even one with merely a slight liking
for short stories would be aware that he
was in the presence of a craftsman. But
many might read it with dismay, and the
dismay would be justified. For it is
another story of primitives acting primi-
tively ; and if overlooking aesthetics for
the moment there is anything certain to
be dismal, gloomy or dull it is a study
of primitives and primitiveness for their
own sake. Apart from affirming that
there are men in the world of far less
mental development than apes, the stor
adds not the faintest thing to human ex
perience or ideas.
The second story by the same autho
—G. Manning-Sanders ; the only write
twice represented—is another goo
study of primitive mentality, slightl
lighter in texture and with some novelt
oi central idea. Many a reader migh
pass through these first two sections o’
the book’s journey with considerabl
doubts. Then in a flash he would be i
brighter territory—a Henry Hande
Richardson study of three schoolgirl
doing their worst to make more so th
discomfort of sharing a too-narrow bee.
It is a slight thing, but universal in it
human note, as real as a personal experi
ence, and technically excellent save fo
one or two touches. Its main flaw i
that the excitements of the night give the
impression of a rehearsed tableau.
The next story, by A. G. Morris, is
one that can be rattled through withou
any pauses. A humorous study of vicar-
age snobbery, with virtue rewarded when
the badly put-upon curate turns the
tables on his ultra-superior superiors by
producing a world-famous violinist to
perform at an English village charity
concert, it is shameless Leonard Merrick
without Merrick’s sense for evading
melodrama. Still, it is good entertain-
ment for anyone reading lightly in a jour-
neying spirit, and a better prelude could
not have been chosen for the story that
follows. This—easily the best in the
book would be a memorable short story
in any company. In it the scene changes
to Russia, for a powerfully projected chill
drama of the Soviet regime, its central
t eme the operation on an important
military personage who wants none of
the operation, fearing that it is merely
a political expedient for removing him
Magnificently told, it rises above all sug-
gestion of grimness for its own sake to
a grandeur in which thought, originality,
plot, character, development, inevitability
a l the essentials of fine short-story
writing combine to produce excellence.
A- G ; Stror >g comes next with the
title story from his recent book, Tuesday
quite a good study of the
ype of school-teacher whom boys de-
ight to rag and bully, and who are too
weak of character to be wholly aware
that they are butts. The next section is
in Sardinia, for a superb nature story of
dog and foxes by an Italian writer,
Grazia Deledda. Next another Austra-
lian, sometime Bulletin writer G.
Hermon Gill, with a rather conventional
sea story, but told with the knowledge and
the talent that he has for such things.
Its descriptiveness is excellent; and the
suggestion of conventionality may be a
result of all steamship skippers and
officers seeming as much alike to a lay-
man reader as a dockful of fan-tan
players.
The sweep next is to Mexico, for a
craftily-written study on a sex theme,
with, for foreground, an old man’s
threatening blindness and the local super-
stition which prefers to a doctor the call-
ing. in of an old drug-brewing charlatan.
Quick with character and finely told, it
makes the rather primitive people it
deals with universally recognisable. The
third Australian represented is next —
Helen Simpson, with a Rabelaisian story
which one reader, at least, would unhesi-
tatingly give second place of the book’s
best. Telling of the extraordinary and
outrageously improper experience that
befel an English maiden lady in a spy-
minded French border township, it must
be one of the most uproariously droll
broad stories to appear in this century,
which, whatever its other literary achieve-
ments, certainly rarely achieves greatly in
this vein.
Another dose of crude primitives in
Neil Bell’s “Sovvy’s Babe,” finely
written, of course, but about as dull a
display of raw low-life for its own dull
sake as could be found in a special hunt
for such stuff. Bell tries to save it from
purposelessness right at the end, with a
little coffin and a touch of satin—a con-
cession to cheap sentimentality and an
artistic failure. If anything, Martin Arm
strong’s following effort is worse—a good
enough study of an arrogant blinc
woman and maiden-lady attendants tha
Armstrong always depicts well, spoilt by
a sensational death-ending which will fij
the ribald with loud laughter. D. H.
Lawrence, with a familiar, excellent de
piction of English miners on strike, next
and then Hugh Forsyth with a light bi;
of sentimental foolery on the shopworr
theme of the awful sufferings undergone
by royalty unable to be like other men
lepresented by a boy king who doesn’;
get bull’s-eyes to eat on his birthday.
Next, one of the several first person
singular stories, and one of the best of
them —a semi-historical tale by the
Frenchman Andre Maurois, harking
back to England’s Victorian period, upon
which, here as elsewhere, he reveals him-
self a first-rate authority. It is a rare
example of the first person used both
expertly and necessarily. Next a semi-
mystical effort called “Lili Died in
April,” of which some might feel only
that the author picked a good month for
it. The next, by Arthur Calder-Marshall,
is no better, except in craft, which is
admirable, but from the next story to the
end the going is good all the way—a
pretty story by Marian Bower of the
Victorian equivalent of sex-appeal en-
suring an owlish-parson husband higher
preferment; an admirable bit of tripping
in Germany by H. E. Bates; a good
comedy of an innocent old Jew outcast
refugeeing in England on a way that
leads to Elstree (an ending that would
have been miles better had he got the
job as a gardener instead of becoming
an actor); a most crafty story of old
Russia, by Francis Watson, beginning
with the Empress writing a letter to Vol-
taire setting forth her idea of the happy
conditions in her country, with an inter-
ruption in the letter to show what the
grim conditions really are, and then the
light letter’s ending as a cynical post-
script to that vivid depicting of Moscow
in the grip of plague; then a good
comedy of primitives by Will R. Bird ; and
a brilliant bit of humor by a Hungarian,
D. Kosztolanyi, using the bright idea of
a man listening to an apparently most
dramatic tale told to him in a language
of /which he understands only one word
Yes ’ which is all he can contribute
to the narration. The journey ends in
still more gaiety, with a capital light
sketch by a Russian, Vl'adimir Sirin,
laughing lightly at the careless way life
mishandles capital short-story material.
R. P.
“The Lot
Austere”
Two things
made Nettie
Palmer’s article
on “The Lot
Austere” (R.P.
5/2/ ’36) appro-
priate to the Wednesday morning on
which I read it. On Tuesday I met an
old friend who asked me to lend him
two bob. He is an author of consider-
able talent. His name ought to be well
known to the Australian public, at least.
But, alas! I had not got two bob!
Later, in “John o’ London’s Weekly,”
my eye alighted on a paragraph which
opened like this: “The literary output of
Canada has been curiously limited”....
It went on to say that the Canadian
scene was practically uncharted in fic-
tion, and yet its variety and richness
ought to commend it to the novelist.
When I got that far I thought of getting
up and swimming at once for Canada.
I read a bit further, and observed that
some gentleman, in a publication entitled
Literature and Oatmeal, considers that
“the overshadowing of colonial effort by
existing English literature does not ex-
plain why our overseas cousins have
made so little stir in the world of
books.” That, of course, includes us;
because this same gentleman points
out that the old Greek and Norwegia
colonies actually gave the lead to thei
mother countries in literary production
Of course, if we are perfectly hones
with ourselves, I think we shall discove
that the real reason why the colonie
(pardon the expression) fail in regard to
literary production is that too many o
us assume, quite gratuitously, that we
can safely turn to literature when al
else has failed. As a matter of fact
literature is not, never has been, anc
never will be a career. If I am starting
out in life and decide to study, say
veterinary science, then I can calculate
my prospects. I should know, almost to
a certainty, how much I can expect in
hard cash as a result of giving the pub-
lic the benefit of my experience when
I am through my five years’ course. I
can find out if there is a dearth or
otherwise of vets., and calculate things
quite nicely. Same with law, medicine,
engineering, commerce (to a limited ex-
tent) or dentistry. These sciences are,
after all, concerned with human neces-
sities. But no one can calculate his pros-
pects as a writer. Literature is not a
necessity of life. People can, at a pinch,
do without it.
So we really cannot complain. As a
matter of fact, there are far richer prizes
in literature than could possibly be
gained in any other profession or trade ;
but they come rather more by chance
than by design. For instance, had one
thought of such a project as The Young
yisiters before Miss Ashford thought of
it, then one would be rich beyond dreams
of “Lucky Fred” or Mr. Whiddon.
There are greater opportunities than ever
in the world to-day to write profitably;
but we often forget, I fancy, that the
scale of remuneration goes not by attain-
ment, but by entertainment.
We often hear of the poverty-stricken
poet, but we would do well to remember
that Kipling, who was primarily a poet,
left a fortune of some hundreds of
thousands. I cannot tell you why that
should be, while Lawson and Kendall
left nothing, thought I suspect the reason
is that Kipling was a better entertainer—
as a poet; Similarly, all these other
writers who are unappreciated and
poverty-stricken—they have, I think,
failed primarily as entertainers. After
all, most people read to be entertained.
The market is there, but we do not pro-
duce the goods. But Ido not mean by
this that all our writers and poets should
set about churning out humorous stuff.
Let it be serious, provided it does
entertain.
It is quite another matter, of course,
if some high-souled person chooses
deliberately to live “the life austere” in
order to give of the best that is in him.
But then he cannot reasonably complain
if he is left unappreciated in his austerity.
Perhaps he had no best to give. Or per-
haps his best, or second-best, did not
appeal to us. Even in a perfectly
ordered world we could not compel
people to read stuff they did not like.
England, of course, is no different.
But just suppose that I were to set my-
self up as a hatter in Sydney, or in Lon-
don, or in Ballyhaunis. .And I decided
that I would make only such hats as
appealed to my aesthetic sense, with very
slight modifications to gratify the herd.
Well, could I complain if the Sydney-
siders or the Londoners or the Bally-
haunisites refused to buy my hats? I’m
damned if I could. And why, after all,
should an author be able to get his work
published without actually paying for it?
If I were a hatter in Ballyhaunis, do you
think I could get my stock for nothing?
Certainly not. I’d be lucky if I could get
it on credit.
GERALD DILLON.
A Scot’s
Scotland
Edwin Muir
declares that his
Scottish Journey
(Heinemann and
Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.
net) is an attempt
to give his impressions of contemporary
Scotland ; “not the romantic Scotland of
the past, nor the Scotland of the tourist,
but the Scotland which presents itself
to one who is not looking for anything
in particular, and is willing to believe
what his eyes and his ears tell him.”
In Edinburgh Mr. Muir succumbs to
the temptation to which fall most writers
of these “frank observation” books: that
is, he confuses what are merely his own
peculiar emotional impulses with really
true and accurate observation. As when
he says:—
Nowhere that I have been is one so
bathed and steeped and rolled about in
floating sexual desire as in certain streets
of Glasgow and Edinburgh.
Not Nowhere that I have been have
/ been so bathed” and so forth.
It is still purely personal emotional
reaction masquerading as detached obser-
vation when he adds:
This desire fills the main thoroughfare
and overflows into all the adjacent pockets
and backwaters: the tearooms, restaurants
and cinema-lounges. The only refuge
from it are the pubs, which convention
forbids women to enter, but which, never-
theless, are always well attended. There,
like sailors after a difficult and nerve-
whipping voyage, the, men put into harbor
and wrap themselves in the safe cloak of
alcohol, which Luther thought such a
secure defence against the flesh.
That, if an individual said it of him-
self, might be very true: to give any of
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS
Bentall
Chaff
Cutter
£lO/10|-
CXB
Chaff Cutter,
Rising mouth,
Jin. and Jin.
Price
E. H. Bentall &
7fin. wide, cuts
Weight, 2 cwt.
Co. C.B.X.
two lengths,
. £lO/10/-
dsdf
Bentall
Chaff
Cutter
£7/2/6
The “Bentall” Chaff Cutter, 7 Jin. mouth, cuts
Jin. and Jin. C.P.L., with three legs.
Price £7/2/6
The Senior Store
df
While l Live I’ 11 Gr o w
5:
A
Anthony Horderns’
MORGAN HARROW
/
7
We stock the following sizes:—
Set of Size of
Style. Description. Spades. Spades. Weight. Price.
If with 2-wheel Fore Carriage, 80/- extra.
Harrows 4ft. and over supplied with two levers.
All these styles have the Cleaner attachment, pre-
venting loading or clogging when ground is wet
and trashy, and when harrowing in manure, straw
or rubbish.
The frames of all these Harrows are made of the
best wrought iron and steel, and are arched so
that they will easily pass over uneven ground and
any ordinary obstructions.
The blades are S-shaped, each being made from
one solid piece of spring steel; they cut into and
lift the soil to a depth of four to six inches, turning
and pulverising the ground precisely like the hand
spade. The gangs can be adjusted to any desired
angle by the hand lever; they float freely, and
thoroughly pulverise and level hard, lumpy and
uneven fields. For deep and fine cultivation no
Harrow equals the Morgan. Unploughed corn
stubble or hard-packed soils are made loose and
pliable to a depth of five to six inches, and, if
used on light and mellow ground, work as shallow
as desired can be done by taking off the weight
of the driver and setting the gang at a single angle.
m
T
The “Star” Disc Harrow
£l5/10/-
Complete Machine. The whole excellently finished
and made with every modern improvement and con-
venience and to be operated with greatest ease for
man and team.
3ft. wide, 6 discs, 16in. size of discs .... £l5/10/-
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, ! 6in.
size of discs, 3021 b. nett weight ...... £2O
2- or* 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 discs, 16in.
size of discs, 3691 b. nett weight £23/10/-
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
John Deere
Corn Shelters
John Deere’s One-hole
Hand Corn Sheller.
Frame of heavy angle
steel, sides heavy gauge
galvanised steel.
Price £7/15/-
ds
oy&usf
£6/2/6
John Deere Hillside Plough
One of the sturdiest and lightest Ploughs of its type on the market.
“John Deere” Hillside Plough works equally well on level ground.
The bottom swivels for left or right furrows, so that land may be
ploughed all one way. Complete with land wheel and steel handles.
Price £6/2/6
New “Bantam” Plough
Made by John Deere & Co. A Strong, Light
All-steel One Horse Plough, designed for use
in mixed lands. High beam gives ample clear-
ance. Cut, 7 inches; weight, 641 b.
Price £4/15/-
Cut, 9in.; weight, 841 b. Price £5/15/-
Single Standard Land Wheels. Price, 12/6
extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc Coulter, 36/-.
£415/-
John Deere “Red Jacket
£B/716
fsd
A Sturdy All-steel Plough, with mouldboard of hardened, soft centre steel and shares
of crucible steel. The beam is of special steel with high curve. Body is one-piece
steel, with steel handles.
Cut, inches 9 10 12
Weight, pounds 89 94 1 08
Prices £B/7/6 £9 £lO/10/6
Single standard land wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc Coulter, 36/-.
The “Wiard” Patent Hillside Beam Plough
Wiard Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with Coulter and adjustable Clevis.
Jointer and Coulter are adjustable and shift automatically when Mouldboard is
reversed. Will plough sin. to Bin. deep, 1 Oin. to 13in. wide; weight, 1 181 b.
Price, each £ll/12/6
Extra Cast Shares. Price, each 77-
Extra Forged Steel Shares. Price, each .... 36/-
The Beam is forged steel in two pieces, the Mouldboard soft
centre steel, highly polished. Saddle of Mouldboard is malleable
iron, Shoe cast iron, chilled on bottom. Wheel can be run
under Beam or at side —points are cast iron—ironwork is
painted green, striped and varnished.
All Wiard Chilled Mouldboards are made by a patent process,
which gives them extreme uniform broad-
ness, from which results great durability,
wearing and cleaning properties.
s6'
ft
o'
mm
£ll/12/6
0 Agricultural Imple-
ments —Fourth Floor.
Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.


WHO WILL PROVE “THE BETTER MAN”?
A SPLENDID NEW SERIAL
Set about a lovely old home in the Highlands of Scotland, Rosaline Masson’s story deals with the rivalry of two young
men, cousins, one from America and the other from Australia, for the heirship of an estate and the love of a girl. Which
of the two will win? Readers will not know till almost the end of the story, and much will happen to the rivals before
that comes.
As illustration the art has been secured of Claire Dailey, whose charming and sympathetic work has not been seen in
Australian papers for some years.
OPENING
CHAPTERS IN
FRIDAY’S ISSUE.
A U S T R A L I A N
ON SALE
ALL NEWSAGENTS,
Price, 3d.
WOMANS MIRROR
it wider application is mere assumption.
.So, as with all such books, is a good
deal of Mr. Muir’s supposed observa-
tion. But the greater part of it is un-
commonly interesting. His general im-
pression—the theme of his book, really
—is that Scotland is gradually being
emptied of its population, its spirit, its
wealth, industry, art, intellect and innate
character.
This is a sad conclusion; but it has
some support on historical grounds. If a
country exports its most enterprising
spirits and best minds year after year,
for 50 or 100 or 200 years, some result
will inevitably follow. England gives
some scope for its best; Scotland gives
none; and by now its large towns are
composed of astute capitalists and angry
proletarians, with nothing that matters
much in between.
That is, he sees in Scotland generally
that hollowness which seems to exist in
Australian letters, Henry Handel Richard-
son, Helen Simpson, Jack and Phil
Lindsay, Brian Penton (and how
many more of them?) having fled their
country with its crude, frustrating censor-
ship (Thorne Smith is the latest this
idiocy has banned) and its extremely dim
literary consciousness.
On that theme of his Mr. Muir gives
a clear, concise, very interesting picture
of contemporary Scotland, travelling
across from Edinburgh to Glasgow, on
to the Highlands and finishing in the
Orkneys, where he finds some reality
remaining in Scottish life at last. Fine
incidental pictures include such things
as Scott’s Abbotsford, now a showplace:
Abbotsford is a very strange house. It
is a place certainly well-suited to be dis-
played, to astonish, to stagger, and to
sadden; but that it should ever have been
lived in is the most astonishing, stagger-
ing, saddening thing of all. One feels,
while wandering through it, that one is on
the track of a secret more intimate than
either Scott’s biography or his written
works can tell; and that if one stayed
here long enough one would at last under-
stand the mania which drove him to create
this pompous, crude, fantastic, unmanage-
able, heartless, insatiable, comfortless
brute of a house, and sacrifice to it in turn
his genius, his peace of mind, his health
and his life. Everything in it, except the
study, with its secret stair, where Scott
slipped down in the early morning to write
his romances unknown to his guests, is
designed for ostentation; it is a huge
showroom of vulgar romantic properties.
The study, Mr. Muir says, is the place
in the house which one can most nearly
believe in. “The desk is enormous, being
both high and massive, and makes one
realise that Scott was almost a giant.”
He catalogues some of the collection of
historical lumber with which Scott
crowded the rest of the house.
Writers with a strong and reckless love
of life, such as Scott and Balzac, often
have this omnivorous collecting passion;
it is an expression of their desire to make
life quite their own, to possess and hold
it correctly... .Balzac’s taste was more
universal than Scott’s, which comprehen-
sively ignored one sphere of life, sensual
passion, or else treated it from a genteel
distance; and so all the relics that are
gathered together at Abbotsford express
violent and dramatic masculine action, and
are in some way connected with battles,
forays, assassinations, imprisonments,
escapes, victories, executions. They were
assembled there by a mania which would
have liked to find expression in the actual
employment of these weapons of war, but
was by necessity compelled to forego any
more direct use of them than the creation
of an obsolete arsenal and the invention,
in a long series of romances, of a dream
of violent and lawless life.
Unlike Abbotsford, Burns’s cottage
seemed to Mr. Muir “a house in which
a human being could live with decency
and dignity.” He thinks far less highly
of Scotland’s Burns cult. It is not a
literary cult, he says, but a social one.
It has very little to do with Burns, and
is concerned chiefly with the perpetuation
of a myth. In that myth Burns becomes
an ordinary man like his devotees, which
he was not. He also becomes a successful
lover and a free and glorious companion,
which everybody would like to be.
According to this observer of Scottish
national life, the sentimentalist in Burns
is the groundwork of that myth ; and the
sentimentalist in Burns is now so neces-
sary, giving an excuse for the annual
January 25 junketing, that Burns “has
become a vested interest, jealously pre-
served like all vested interests. This
explains the extraordinary fury which
greeted Mrs. Catherine Carswell’s excel-
lent life of the poet a few years ago.
She trenched on a vested interest by
showing Burns as a human being.”
As for Scotland as a whole, Mr. Muir
is a Socialist; and, without being ob-
trusive or really very clear about it, he
seems to imply that Socialism is needed
to save Scotland for itself.
Scotland, with its derelict industries, its
vast slums, its depopulated glens, its
sweated peasantry and its army of unem-
ployed, has no future save through such a
change.
C. M.
Sense and
Censorship
Abolition of
the censorship of
books is probable
in Maoriland.
Said Finance
Minister Walter
Nash at a recent Associated Booksellers’
luncheon: “We have the law of the
land, and that should be sufficient censor-
ship. There is no one who can say what
his neighbor should read, and it is a
restriction of the rights of the subject to
suggest that a citizen should not have
access to books which some board of
censorship says are not for him.”
Mr. Nash, who was once Maoriland
agent for several English publishers,
pointed out, too, that the censorship, as
any banned book can be procured easily
enough, is really meaningless. The delay
and extra trouble involved are annoying,
but it’s the furtiveness of the deal and
the coming into contact with an official
mind that could consider innocuous
books obscene that really nauseate the
buyer of banned literature.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
A Shroud As Well As a Shirt .. Shamus Fraser
Quack, Quack! Leonard Woolf
Scottish Journey Edwin Muir
Modern Short Stories
READING Shamus Fraser’s A Shroud
As Well As a Shirt (Chapman and
Hall; 7s. 6d.) a man with a C 3 laugh
would keep neighbors awake on the Nul-
larbor. He’d certainly keep himself awake.
Superb ridicule, irrespectve of target, it’s
the funniest onslaught so far launched
against those frantic infections Fascism,
Hitlerism, Communism. Even the
Ismystics themselves would have to laugh
at it, if they had any ability to do so, or
if the Leader allowed. A fine piece of
large foolery on general grounds, run-
ning continuously in the vein of “I had
so wanted to take a snap of Lenin;
quite lifelike I believe he looks though
stuffed, of course,” it's special business is
a satirical, uproariously fun-poking de-
piction of the ‘beginning, rise and
triumph of Fascism in England. Mr.
Fraser’s Fascists dress in cricket shirts and
jodhpurs; general designation, the Cricket-
shirts. Appropriately, crisis comes at the
Oval. After Australia’s openers had hit
up 598, one of them went to sleep and
trod down his wicket. The Australian
captain followed—patted the pitch, re-
moved a small piece of cotton, sent for
a new bat, finally took block. Lumber,
the English fast bowler, by now exas-
perated to insanity, took a long run and
hurled the ball straight at the Austra-
lian’s head.
The sound of the impact was heard all
over the ground, and old men in the
refreshment tents remarked over their
double whiskies, “Gad! He’s broken his
bat” ; they drained off their glasses,
and ran outside —bubbling with future
reminiscences.
The Leader of the party ’phoned Might,
editor of the “Creamshirt”:
“Might, I want you to come to H.Q. at
once . . . Yes, at once ! . . . You have
heard the news from the Oval? . . . No?
It should be in the papers by now. I
received a report from Boyce from the
Oval three-quarters of an hour ago, by
carrier pigeon. The Australia! captain
was struck on the head by a ball from
Lumber, and killed immediately. Rioting
broke out, and Boyce reports there have
been a number of casualties. I shouldn’t
be surprised if the incident does not
result in war. At least it should have far-
reaching effects within the Empire. This
is the great opportunity for which I have
been waiting, Might. It is our great
chance. The Old System has been tried
and found wanting. The Old Gang will
abandon the country in its hour of crisis;
but we Cricketshirts will be there for the
British people to turn to 1 am sending
the Daimler for you immediately, Might.”
The results are all the Leader anticipated,
including Australian secession ; and the
treatment, then as before the crisis, is
all that might have been anticipated of
a writer capable of prefacing such a book
with such a foreword as this:
After I had written this book, it was
brought to my notice that already there
existed in Great Britain a Fascist party.
I should like to take this opportunity of
saying that there can be no possible re-
semblance between the members of the
Cricketshirt party and those ardent,
patriotic souls who are at present striv-
ing to make this country—“that we love
so well”—worthy of Blackshirt policy.
Though this is his third book —the others
were Acorned Hog and Porcelain People
—Mr. Fraser is quite evidently young.
There’s a young writer’s vigor and en-
thusiasm on every page, and a touch of
the undergraduate on most. If he does
not develop into one of the foremost
writers, and probably the foremost
humorous and satiric writer, in England
within a matter of years the filler of this
Satchel will resign his tipping license and
never renew it.
The same infections that inspire Mr.
Fraser are subject also of a brilliant
biting analysis by Leonard Woolf—
Quack, Quack ! (Hogarth Press ; from
Angus and Robertson; 11s. 3d.). Mr.
Woolf’s general thesis is that both Com-
munism and Fascism (Italian, German
and all other varieties) and all their
lauded achievements in national unity
and the like, and all their brutish mani-
festations as well, represent merely a re-
version to primitive tribal behavior. The
argument, sustained by comparisons with
Frazer’s ( not Shamus) records of primi-
tiveness and savagery in The Golden
Bough, is an exceptionally clear-headed
piece of thinking.
The others picked from this week’s
Satchel— Modern Short Stories and Scot-
tish Journey (reviewed separately)—are
also a bit more than ordinarily good of
their kind.
“The Dear Dogs,” by Ada Galsworthy
(Heinemann ; 3s. 6d. net). Charming
brevity of Galsworthy personalia, record-
ing the family acquaintanceship and
especially Galsworthy’s companionship
with various dogs. The photos, are ex-
ceptionally interesting.
Rose of Israel, by Kobold Knight
(Blackie; 7s. 6d.), is a novel of the
domestic life of middle-class Jews in
England. Rosa, the central figure, is 33
and unmarried because she has no
dowry. So she falls in love with the
usual married man misunderstood by his
wife, and after a little bliss the man dies
suddenly—he had a weak heart, and the
loss of his dog upset him. Rosa is not
very well educated nor clever. The
author says that she bore the Mark of
God, put on all who are to suffer, and
suffer she certainly does. She is well
drawn, but the other characters, particu-
larly the Jewish ones, are fictional stock
models.
Three of Three Million, by Leonhard
Frank (John Lane ; 7s. 6d.), is a trans-
lation from' the German by Cyrus
Brookes. It tells, tersely, yet with a sense
of photographic realism, of the adven-
tures of three middle-aged men, unem-
ployed in Germany. By a lucky chance
they were enabled to migrate to South
America, where they got mixed up in a
revolution and were deported. Then
through Europe they wandered. France,
Italy and Switzerland in turn threw them
out —no country wants another’s out-of-
works. One dies on the way ; the other
two return to their home town, not so
well off as when they left, for they no
longer have hope.
More Recollections, by Mary Gilmore
(Angus and Robertson; 6s.), continues
the series of articles bound together in
Old Days; Old Ways. In addition to a
memory that is both telescopic and
microscopic “Mary MacCommonwealth”
(as she often dubbed herself for forays
in the pages of The Bulletin) is rich in
humor and in the commonsense that is
the salt of humor, and her reminiscences
make good reading. Publisher’s blurb on
the jacket says “novelists yet unborn will
find in her work especially the needed
essential detail and atmosphere,” and for
once in a way it is possible to give un-
reserved approval to the statement.
The Glasshouse, by M. Barnard
Eldershaw (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.), is by the
authors of A House Is Built, which won
the first Bulletin novel competition, but
has neither the backbone nor the meat
of that performance. It is the story of
a voyage from Antwerp to Fremantle.
The principal character, a lady novelist,
writes short stories about most of the
people on board, and these help to ex-
pand the chronicle to the requisite 300-
odd pages. An effort has been made to
make the tone sophisticated and flippant,
but the general flavor is slightly acid.
However, the style has grace, and there
are flickers here and there of the sin-
cerity and insight that made A House
Is Built stand out as a vivid com-
mingling of memory and imagination.


GIANT
B ALLO 0 N
WILL REDUCE
YOUR TYRE COSTS
/
m
a
©
The New G-3 Giant Balloon is the
most effective contribution yet
made towards tyre economy. Its
outstanding advantages and
extra value come to you at no
extra cost.
This tyre is built in an entirely
new design the "High-Profile"
Construction which results in
longer tyre life by preventing
early tyre failures in to-day's
high-speed and heavy-payload
service.
These early failures are mainly
due to "Road Fever" the de-
structive internal heat created in
a tyre working under load.
Goodyear Engineers tested many
experimental tyres before they
found that the "High-Profile"
Construction was the very best
preventive of "Road Fever." Its
greater height, greater sidewall
area, higher flexing zone and
greater internal air space con-
quer the inferno of flexing heat
and provide longer tyre life up
to 25% —50% . . . even 100%,
according to the type of service.
See your Goodyear Dealer about
fitting new G-3 Giant Balloons on
your Truck or Bus!
G-3
GIANT
BALLOON
The “High-Profile” Design
y/ vy/'
sf¥i
m
M
New Tread
Features
a
New Carcass
Features
1. 12% More Non-skid Diamonds,
2. Deeper-cut Diamonds.
3. Wider and Flatter Tread.
4. Tougher Tread Compound.
5. Greatly Increased Tread Lite.
1. Greater Overall Diameter.
2. Wider Cross-section.
3. Greater Flexing Area.
4. Larger Air Volume.
5. Heat-resisting Compound.
PRE-SHRUNK SUPERTWIST CORD CARCASS
(exclusive to Goodyear)
a
»
N
r\
10-C7-36.
MADE
N AUSTRALIA


*
ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
m
m
.
m
m
w ar m
MR
H
■
■
m.
■
■
m
. ;
i i
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2923.
February 19, 1936.
NOTHING DOING.
“Fears and Alarms. Britain and Locarno. Franco-Soviet Pact. Polish Protest. Italian Opinion. Reported Order for Sandbags. Mobilisation of Germans.
Russia Prepared. Japanese Policy. United States Senator’s Criticism.” — Cables headings, Feb. 13.
“Listen, you blokes, and tell your mates, I’m busy—cleaning up your last mess. Fight it out among yourselves.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
EMPTY GESTURES.
Politicians habitually complain that theirs is a thank-
less service. They dedicate their lives to conducting
the affairs of the country, jeopardise, lose or spend
fortunes on it, live like itinerant dogs and work like
the Negus of Abyssinia ; and all their reward is that
they and their profession are stock objects of public
ridicule.
Yet hearers remain unmoved. Any vague stirrings
of sympathy that may be felt are stilled when they
contemplate salary grabs or manoeuvres such as those
to which Mr. Lyons and Mr. Hughes have recently
been parties. It is not a question of the unparalleled
service either gentleman has undoubtedly sometime
done for his country ; it is the particular occasional
acts from which they and many of their profession
seem incapable of refraining.
Our Prime Minister sends our ex-Prime Minister
a telegram demanding his resignation from the Cabinet,
and without waiting for a reply hands a copy of it
to the press. Our ex-Prime Minister dutifully resigns
—and proceeds to win back his place with apparent
lip-service to that which he had condemned. And
both find reconciliation through an exchange of face-
saving sophistries. Mr. Hughes obligingly declares
himself entirely in accord with the Government’s
League of Nations policy—with its reliance, that is,
on what Mr. Hughes had savagely attacked —and his
post is given back to him. It was cheap at the price ;
too cheap ; dirt cheap.
Containing such expressions as “the League of
Nations is the most effective —indeed, the only—-
means by which collective action is practicable,” Mr.
Hughes’s letter was, in fact, a mere string of woolly
generalities which a special pleader could defend as
not inconsistent with Mr. Hughes’s previously-
expressed opinions. But its general effect was clearly
laudatory of the League and enthusiastic for the
Government’s League policy. That being so, Mr.
Hughes should recall all copies of his book Australia
and War To-day and get the public hangman to burn
them.
In that book Mr. Hughes, now “entirely in accord”
with the Government’s League policy, said that the
League, “established to ensure the territorial integrity
of all nations —especially of weak ones —has not only
failed to protect them, but has created conditions that
encourage aggression.” He said that “the present
policy of the nations within the League is illogical,
misleading and pregnant with grave consequenes to
the peace of the world.”
Mr. Hughes compared the old diplomacy with
the League. In the comparison “the old diplomacy
was attuned to the world as it really is, and not to
the world as it might be.” If the old diplomacy had
been operating to-day “it would have been able to
prevent the war between Italy and Abyssinia, and
international relations generally would have been much
more stable.”
Mr. Hughes borrowed from Bismarck to describe
the League as “a lath painted to look like iron.” He
referred contemptuously to the “genteel sanctions of
the League.” He declared that “it would be most
dangerous to conclude that the League can main-
tain world peace or ensure the security of nations
against aggression.” He spoke scornfully of the
“credulous souls who still believe that out of the
babel of talk, of meticulous adherence to ceremonious
ritual, of negotiations and attempts at compromise, in
which the League has indulged for many weeks, will
come that just peace and security which they were
told the League would ensure to all nations, great
and small.”
Mr. Hughes was highly explosive about “those
who hold, despite convincing proof to the contrary,
that world peace is assured and national security
guaranteed by the League.” He declared that since
the Italo-Abyssinian dispute was referred to the
League “the number of these believers in the League’s
power to ensure security and to preserve peace has
been substantially reduced.” He described “economic
sanctions” as “either an empty gesture or war.”
Mr, Hughes asserted that the League “is not
able to do the very thing for which it was brought
into existence.” “The League, which was to ensure
the peace of the world,” he said, “has failed to do
so.” “The League, which was intended to rest on
armed force,” he said, “has, in fact, been built on
shifting sands. It can neither preserve world peace
nor guarantee our security. As things are, every nation
must provide for its own security.” “On every occa-
sion,” he said, “where a first-class Power has been
involved, the impotence of the League to preserve
peace or to protect a weaker Power from aggression
has been distressingly evident.”
Mr. Hughes was most indignant at the League’s
failure to prevent Germany rearming. A happy little
fire-eater where Germany is concerned, he declared
that “the League must have known that armament
firms domiciled in State members were supplying
Germany with arms in open defiance of the treaty.”
Yet the League knew, he said, “that, once Germany
was rearmed, another great war, still more terrible
than the last, or abject submission to Germany’s
terms, was only a matter of time.”
Mr. Hughes playfully described the League meet-
ing he attended on the drug traffic; the “moving
speeches,” the “resolution strongly denouncing the
traffic.” “For myself,” he said, “I was more than
ever convinced that, although the League might not
be able to prevent war, it was doing splendid work
for mankind.” Then he learned that “Geneva itself,
the citadel of the League, was the headquarters of
the dope trade.”
This might represent a tenth of Mr. Hughes’s
condemnation. It all appeared at the end of October.
The beginning of February found Mr. Hughes pre-
pared to pay this sorry League some fulsome laudatory
lip-service. After which empty gesture he returns to
his place in the Government which is imposing
economic sanctions, returns at the invitation of the
Prime Minister who dismissed him—and told the
newspapers first.
SEAPLANES FOR DEFENCE.
Recent developments in seaplane-construction make it
clear that the albatross and not the emu is the most
suitable national bird for Australia. Nevertheless
Australian Ministers keep their eyes on the coat of
arms whenever they think of aerial defence.
For the safety of Australia and Maoriland it is
necessary to be in a position to keep sea routes open
in time of war ; to carry and land troops swiftly at
coastal points ; to tackle raiding aircraft and warships
before they can land, and to make enemy bases within
reach of Australia untenable. Beyond all doubt, any
invader would use seaplanes as primary air transport.
But Mr. Parkhill, whose department last year spent
£76,000 on “development of civil aviation” and £1692
“for civil aviation, additions, new works” —a little
more than the year’s bill for royal commissions—is a
land bird and is all for landplanes. And he never
thinks of Maoriland at all.
Qantas uses landplanes, and Qantas organised
the Cootamundra-Singapore airline. Yet, unlike Mr.
Parkhill, it is large-minded, so it has published this:
The flying-boat, with water as its aerodrome, when
foreign aerodromes might be closed for use would
have the greatest chance of keeping open an overseas
line of communication. For patrol work to the north
of Australia... .the self-contained large-unit flying-boat
would appear to be of great value.
And not for patrol work alone: —•
For troop-carrying, a large unit is essential. Build-
ing in Britain are aircraft capable of carrying 66
passengers and luggage at a cruising speed of 150
m.p.h One such boat could in 24 hours convey
150 fully-equipped soldiers for 500 miles and land them
at almost any point on the coast where it was possible
for an enemy to land by boat. A landplane would
not be able to land unless there were large aero-
dromes, which there almost certainly would not be.
Even while these aircraft are being built,
the scope of flying-boats has been vastly extended
by the discovery of the geodetic principle, which has
been hailed in London as one of the greatest advances
in flight technique since the Wrights left the ground
in 1903. By -adding immense strength to greatly-
lightened construction, the geodetic system trebles the
range of large aeroplanes at least and more than
doubles their carrying capacity.
A sky-vessel of the new type, of 17 tons burden —-
about the same as that of the British 66-seaters —
could fly non-stop from Asia to North Australia,
land 50 troops there and return to its base without
refuelling. A 200-ton seaplane, such as the British
Aeronautical Committee regards as possible of con-
struction, even by old methods, becomes practicable
under the geodetic system. These giants, which are
contemplated for the Atlantic route, could land 1500
men per day from a base 500 miles off the Australian
coast, together with equipment. One of them could
feed 20,000 gallons of petrol or several flights of
unassembled fighting ’planes or light bombers from
Asia to North Australia within 24 hours.
Ships of this type are not dream-ships. They are
in the womb of the very near future—nearer to
present aircraft than Ross Smith’s Vickers Vimy was
to the pre-war suicide-boxes ; years nearer than the
new French Dewoitine D5lO, which can climb 17,000
feet in six minutes and fight (with a motor-operated
20mm. gun) at a ceiling of 35,000 feet, is to the Sop-
with Camels in which A.F.C. men gambled with
their lives. But the shadow of their coming does not
make Canberra even turn over in its sleep. The
Parkhills are content with a so-called aerial defence
scheme which is six years old, and content to leave
cities unprotected by listening and location posts or
by modern anti-aircraft. If it were necessary to ring
Sydney or Melbourne with protective fighters, even
aerodromes would have to be improvised.
London takes no such risks. It learnt precaution
at the cost of thousands of lives and immense damage
to property. The raiding bomber bound for White-
hall will in future have to traverse a protective belt
of sound-finders, fighter aerodromes, balloon nets of
steel wires and anti-aircraft quickfirers. Fuel centres
in Britain, as on the Continent, have special protection ;
Australia’s are wide open. Everything else is wide
open to the long-distance invader.
Almost every year since the Great War ended
sons of Australia have dazzled the world with some
new feat in flying or invention. In 17 years, however,
the native land of Hawker, Percival, Ross Smith,
Kingsford Smith, Hinkler, Ulm, Dallas and Melrose
has scarcely grown defensive pin-feathers.
Its Government is talking about beginning to
build aeroplane frames —engines will come later—at a
time when all the Great Powers and many of the
small ones are turning out as many complete fighting
aeroplanes as they can build. The Prime Minister is
“hoping” to find an oil well; meanwhile the Com-
monwealth remains dependent on overseas sources,
mainly foreign, for its motor spirit. There is splendid
human material for training—none better anywhere
—but few are trained. There are not 50 skilled pilots
who are familiar with North Australia and its flying
conditions.
A new man with a modern mind who is ready to
work in with Britain and Maoriland is needed in the
Ministry of Defence. It is no place for Parkhills. As
secretary of the N.S.W. Liberal League, with authority
over ladies’ auxiliaries, Mr. Parkhill may have been
exactly suited ; but the job of organising the defence
of a nation inhabiting a continent is beyond him.
A NAZI NIGHT.
On a recent Sunday evening an interesting film was
screened at a Sydney theatre. Admission was by
invitation, tickets being distributed by members of the
German community.
“ ‘The Triumph of Will,’ ” say its sponsors, “is
not propaganda, but just a film showing what the
Nazis have done.”
The two-hour show consisted entirely of impres-
sive parades, fiery speeches, cheering crowds and
Nazi salutes.
As a spectacle it was memorable and inspiring
(though there was much repetition); as a proof of the
militarisation and regimentation of the German masses
it was invaluable; but as a measure: of Nazi
achievement it was worthless.
It did, however, give a good insight into the
secret of Hitler’s power and into the means employed
to keep up the faith of the people in the Fiihrer.
Firstly, those responsible for the arrangements
for Nazi gatherings have a very strong sense of the
dramatic and its effect upon mob psychology. Torch-
light parades, where tens of thousands of followers in
massed formation surround a central rostrum on
which Hitler stands in a blaze of light and delivers
a fiery speech, amplified so that all can hear, working
himself up into a frenzy of emphasis and pausing
at suitable intervals to enable a chorus of Heil! Heil!
Heil! to burst forth —these cannot fail to fill every
participant with “comfort in himself and in his cause,’’
and send him home more ardent than ever in his
belief in the reborn Germany and its destiny.
And the man can speak. Now he is on top every-
thing is done to help him get his effects, but it is
only a few years since he had to rely only on the
power of his oratory, in a setting of back streets and
ribaldry.
A consummate actor, but one who believes his
part, and has the power of making others believe it,
too. Altogether devoid of a sense of humor, but a
dictator must be that or he would fail at the very
outset of his career.
The best measure of the success of Hitler’s oratory
is the manner in which other Nazi leaders have
copied it. With two exceptions, all who spoke in
this film (and there were about a dozen of them)
seemed to have modelled their delivery on that of
their leader. One of the exceptions was Gobbels.
The other was a dark, young-looking man with deep-
sunk, fanatical eyes—Rudolf Hess, looked on by
many as a probable successor to Hitler. He is the
type that may exhort men to almost anything, and
be obeyed. Goring spoke not at all.
The attitude of the crowds was of doubtful value
to an observer. Naturally, in a film of this type, no
hostile comment or demonstration was shown —all
was cheering, “heding” and applause.
At the massed parades all present would presum-
ably be party members who would be ready to “heil”
whatever was said—in fact, the “heili ng” was defi-
nitely machine-like and rehearsed, like the “rooting”
of a Yankee college baseball-team’s supporters —but
they seemed terrifically keen and sincere.
A peculiar sight to British eyes was the parade of
thousands of young men in military uniforms but
carrying, instead of rifles, new polished shovels. These
were the Labor Army, and they were seen marching,
drilling and being inspected by Hitler. Here, too,
was nothing but enthusiasm and deadly seriousness.
One wondered whether it would still last when the
uniforms began to get dirty and the shovels lost their
shine in everyday graft. The roads and railways
of the world were not built by uniformed patriots.
But perhaps these men aren’t intended for building
roads and railways.
“The Triumph of Will,” being an official film,
may be taken to represent the outlook of the Nazi
party, and it is significant that there was no phase
of it that was not in some degree militaristic, and
no speech that did not tend to foster the national spirit.
The moral? None —except that Germany at the
present time is clearly more military-minded even
than before the war. Its resources are not so great,
nor has it the ships, the guns or the munitions it had
in 1914. But it is rapidly getting them, and it has
hundreds of thousands of young, zealous men who
believe in its destiny, and theirs. Nor is Germany
“peculiarly amenable” to “sanctions” —it withstood
virtual blockade for four years.
This film is doubtless intended as propaganda to
win the support of local Germans who may have been
hostile or lukewarm to the Nazi movement, and scores
of pairs of shining eyes as the audience left the theatre
testified to its success.
Full-blooded patriots have suggested that Com-
monwealth Ministers should have banned it. On the
contrary, they should have gone to see it—particularly
the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence.
FINDY.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Thank You, Mr. Lyons!”
The Collier Government started the Westralian
elections by winning 10 seats without a contest, as
against four collected by Country-party men and one
by a Nationalist. The advantage was more apparent
than real, for there were seven contested electorates
in which nobody bore the Labor banner. In five of
these C.P. struggled with C.P., “endorsed” or other-
wise, for votes; in the other two the electors had to
return Nats., no other brand of politician being
available.
There was only one constituency in which the
choice was limited to supporters of the Government.
That was Kalgoorlie, where, because of some new
flaw in the pre-selection system, which has so many
flaws, three Laborites took the field. It is significant
that the old member, Mr. Cunningham, a former
Minister, was defeated by a man new to politics, Mr.
Styants.
In the last Assembly the Government held 30 of
the 50 Assembly seats. By ten o’clock on Saturday
night it was evident that Labor would lose Maylands,
Subiaco and Albany by substantial majorities—-
Albany to a Country-party man, Subiaco to one of
two Nationalists, who proved to be Mr. Curtin’s
opponent in 1934, Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, and Maylands
to the “unendorsed” Nationalist Mr. Shearn, who
received 700 more primary votes than the “endorsed”
secessionist Nat., Mr. Hartrey—and that the “full-
time” Minister for Unemployment and Labor-unity
Conferences, Mr. Kenneally, was going down in East
Perth. There his principal opponent was the doughty
Mr. T. J. Hughes, standing as an Independent, with a
returned-soldier brother to gather preferences for
him, and perhaps to succeed him should bankruptcy
proceedings result in his being disqualified from taking
his seat.
Mr. T. J. Hughes it was who had one Labor
M.L.C. fined for a breach of the Electoral Act (he
would have been disqualified if the Government had
r.ot weighed in with a free pardon) and another con-
demned to pay heavy penalties for being paid chair-
man of the Lotteries Commission (held to be an
office of profit under the Crown), as well as paid
member. But the High Court reversed the judgment
of the State Supreme Court and Full Court, and
Mr. Hughes could not pay the costs.
It remained for Canning, the only other elec-
torate marked doubtful, to determine whether the
Government would be in a majority or a minority of
one, with a Labor Speaker. Canning is a residential
district controlled by the civil-service vote, and the
Government has been very good to civil servants.
With the special Commonwealth grant, which was
increased this election year from £600,000 to £BOO,OOO,
it has restored their pay to pre-depression rates ; the
last cut disappeared on December 31, and the election
took place on February 15. Canning returned its
Labor member. In a manner of speaking, the Lyons
Government won Mr. Collier’s election for him.
4
Free Overseas Trips for All.
Perhaps in the hope of justifying his own trip to
London, which is quite unnecessary—nowadays there
is nothing in London for Australian State Premiers
to do—Mr. Stevens talks of “extending the Govern-
ment’s policy of sending officers abroad for overseas
experience and bringing them back after they have
served two or three years.”
In the interests of the State, officers who have dis-
played executive and administrative capacity should be
given the opportunity of development that would flow
from such a term of experience overseas.
But why restrict the “opportunity” to such “officers”?
If overseas experience means better service, why not
let everybody have his turn? Exclusive of Common-
wealth Government employees (the Post Office
alone has 9000), there are only about 73,000
Government employees in N. S. Wales—4o,ooo in the
Railways, 8000 in the Department of Road Trans-
port and 25,000 in the teaching and clerical depart-
ments. And the return fare for an officer travelling
in style (his wife and family have to be taken, too)
is a mere £193 Australian.
For a variety of reasons, such as language, finan-
cial stringency and perhaps rooted popular objections
to deadheadism on the grand scale, most of the
nations of the earth dispense with the luxury of
sending privileged worthies to London for “the oppor-
tunity of development.” Yet they get along, and their
balance sheets look all the healthier for the abstention.
This deadheadism has become a disease in Aus-
tralia, and it has evoked such strong disapprobation
on the part of those who have to find the money
that it has become necessary to defend it. One
defender is Mr. Stevens’s deputy, Mr. Bruxner, who
confesses himself “amused at the constant criticism
of Ministers and public servants who go abroad.”
Taxpayers envy the facility with which Mr. Bruxner
is amused, but they are not amused at the cost. And
they are often given cause for wonder what they
get for it.
The theory is that the globetrotters return brim-
ming over with information which could not have
been got per radio telephone, Beam wireless, air-mail,
broadcasts, talking pictures or any of the technical
publications which are issued in such profusion. But
sometimes they form incorrect impressions or come
back telling different tales.
Mr. Clapp went abroad last year and
returned convinced that “the Victorian railways
cannot afford to be without air-conditioning.” Mr.
Hartigan also went abroad last year and returned
convinced that “air-conditioning is not generally
essential in this climate.” So while Mr. Clapp’s
department is having country trains air-conditioned
“to enable lost traffic to be regained,” Mr. Hartigan
is restricting air-conditioning to Diesel trains, “to be
used only on branch lines.”
Mr. Maddocks, Mr. Bruxner’s Commissioner of
Road Transport, also went abroad last year, and
returned in time to figure in an action for damages
(the jury awarded £200) arising out of a tram collision,
a driver having collapsed at his post. Plaintiff con-
tended that the department had been negligent in not
providing a safety device for cutting off power in
such an emergency. Mr. Maddocks’s reply was that
such a device is not in use on “any two-man tram in
any part of the world.” He has been tartly re-
minded by a newspaper correspondent that for five
years all new Christchurch (M.L.) trams have been
fitted with a safety device ; drivers call it “the dead
man’s grip.”
One sure conclusion can be drawn from this orgy
of overseas tours. If so many politicians and public
servants can be spared part of the time, some of them
can be spared all of the time. In other words, Cabi-
nets, Parliaments and departments are overmanned.
4
Another Huge Federal Surplus Looming.
Although Governments never, never interfere with
taxation departments (at least, that is the tale when
an aggrieved taxpayer goes to his member or a Minis-
ter for redress), there is an increasing tendency to
assess big taxpayers very late in the financial year.
The effect is to delay payments of tax until after June
30, thus reducing revenue and correspondingly cutting
down the surplus.
Taxpayers’ associations interested in the growing
demand for a reduction in Federal “temporary” taxa-
tion imposed in an emergency which has passed would
do well to watch closely this year whether the income-
tax demands are coming out late. If only a small
surplus can be shown the. case for reducing sales tax
and petrol tax and income tax and abolishing the
“special” impost on property income is weakened.
Now, there should be a Commonwealth surplus of
at least three millions this financial year. The latest
revenue figures show a credit balance of just under
a million. Add to that £7,000,000 still to be received
from income tax on the basis of the Budget estimate
and £1,000,000 to come from land tax, and deduct
roughly £3,000,000 for assistance to primary producers
(including £1,880,000 for wheatgrowers) and
£3,000,000 approximate expenditure lag—the out-
goings to the end of January are about £3,000,000 less
than seven-twelfths of the total estimated expenditure
—and you have £3,000,000. Assuming there is no
sudden drop in customs receipts, the Commonwealth
will have taken several millions more from industry
than it needed to pay its way.
Customs revenue is booming—already £2,266,000
above the estimate; so is sales tax —£545,000 above
the estimate. Post Office receipts are nearly half
a million greater. As showing how quickly the lessons
of the depression have been forgotten, the Common-
wealth is collecting more and spending more than it
did last year. Receipts, at £44,870,000, are £4,121,000
greater than receipts for the same seven months of
1934-35 ; expenditure is £2,786,000 greater.
Industry could make better use of the surplus
millions rolling into the Commonwealth Treasury than
could any Government. Reduction of taxation would
mean increased employment of taxpayers.
4
“It Would Help Russia.”
From P. H. Bushell:
Please retain your reputation for accuracy by correcting
the remarks alleged to me about Russia.
I never said that Russia had “abandoned Communism
for State capitalism, which will be a ‘huge success’ ” (B.
5/2/’36). What I did say was that there is no Communism
in Russia and that the nearest name for their policy is
State capitalism. It is based on mass production and eco-
nomic planning on a grand scale. Economically, 1 think
it must be successful, but at the sacrifice of the individuality
of the worker.
A barter agreement with Russia for wool would increase
their consumption of it, and so help to maintain the price.
At present the consumption per head in Russia is much below
their requirements, as shown by the clothes the people are
wearing.
If we obtain from Russia the timber, matches, wood-
pulp and oil we are at present importing from other countries
it would help Russia to use more wool, and the other
countries are wealthy enough to purchase wool still, despite
the loss of what, to them, is a very small export to Australia.
The Soviet Union’s purchases from Australia
were officially valued at £84,180 sterling in 1934-35,
£88,678 in 1933-34, £4141 in 1930-31. Its relations
with this country are in the hands of the Communist
International, which, according to the London “Times”
of January 9, “sanctions” notwithstanding, “exists for
the avowed purpose of promoting civil war in non-
Communist countries whenever the situation appears
favorable.” Even in the darkest days of the depres-
sion we were not reduced to bartering our wool for
foreign goods, whether produced by forced labor or
otherwise. We are now to reserve for a bad customer
with intriguing rulers a favor we deny to France,
Italy and Germany, in the process endangering, per-
haps ruining, our own match factories and sawmills.
It won’t do, Mr. Bushell!
4
Commissars on Wheels.
Two recent happenings in two different States have
illustrated to a nicety the haughty outlook of railway
potentates upon the mere public.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Hartigan told a
deputation which asked him to make a level crossing
reasonably safe that it was hot his job to protect the
public travelling on the roads. The crossing will
therefore remain a public danger until one of Mr.
Hartigan’s trains runs down a politician or a union
leader. Queensland Railway Commissioner Davidson
informed another deputation which complained of a
grievous smoke, nuisance arising from his engines that
the railway had been there before the houses were
built. Each spoke in the full knowledge that any
private citizen who might initiate legal action to secure
reparation for damage to his body or his pocket would
be opposed by all the resources of their respective
Governments, legal and financial.
If these railways were privately owned what a
hullabaloo would have arisen from the serried ranks
of Labor when the grasping octopus of Capital
announced that it was not its job to care for the safety
of The People whilst engaged in their lawful pursuits
upon the King’s highway? With what triumphant
emphasis would every one of . Labor’s numerous sects,
from Langism to the solitary individual who represents
his own policy in the Reps., have rubbed in the fact
that roads were built before railways?
In their private capacities neither Mr. Hartigan
nor Mr. Davidson would wilfully injure even the
lowliest taxpayer. As officials, they are unfettered
autocrats.
4
Immigration, New Plan.
“M. TurluTu”: Should the offer of subsidised
factories, to be manned by Britons under guarantee,
be actually made to Australia, any Government or
any politician that opposes it for the sake of oppo-
sition will deserve to be regarded as an enemy.
The proposal destroys the only argument which
narks have. It will not displace a single Australian
worker, nor will it add a single unit to Australia’s
unemployed. On the contrary, such a scheme would
create new opportunities for Australians by estab-
lishing new industries, with consequent stimulation of
local trade by the marketing, domestically and over-
seas, of their products. Further, every migrant
brought in would be a source of additional
national income from the time of arrival, expending
his Britain-guaranteed wages in Australian foods,
clothes, houses and the rest.
And, most important of all, it would give us what
we need so badly as the only sure defence in a war-
stirred world, more man-power of our own breed.
4
The Dope Trade.
Canberra has announced that Australia’s average
consumption of cocaine per million of population
(12.4 kilos in 1934) is the highest among English-
speaking countries. Other figures are: Britain, 5.29
kilos ; Canada, 4.89 ; U.S.A., 6.82 ; Maoriland, 7.12.
Australia is also stated to show a greater proportional
consumption of morphine and heroin than any of
these countries.
With the dope trade internationally organised as
it is, such statements are sheer futility so far as they
purport to represent actual total consumption, includ-
ing that of the dope addicts for whose alleged protec-
tion all the expensive control measures are operated.
The nominal cocaine allowance for the whole of
Sydney for a year could be carried in a fair-sized
suitcase, and it is obviously ridiculous to pretend that
smuggling does not occur.
The report of a prospective investigation suggests
a jaunt abroad at the taxpayers’ expense for some
politician or clerk.
4
Shares and Recovery.
Last week established some new record high prices
for investment shares in Melbourne and Sydney.
Money is coming out of banks, and is to some extent
leaving the gold-share market (often a smaller sum
than when first introduced to the gamble) in order
to participate in the improvement which better trade
and employment figures promise.
The advance in some Australian industries has
exceeded general expectations. Building has picked
up remarkably, activity at B.H.P.’s Newcastle works
is greater than ever, the motor trade is flourishing,
cement- and brickworks are busy, while hotels,
retailers, spinners, knitters and a variety of manu-'
facturers are recovering much of the trade lost in
the bad years.
Wool sold at the best price of the season a
week or so ago. Wheat has recently been higher than
at any time within the last—yes —six years, though
at present inclined to weaken. Despite increasing
imports our six months’ trade balance has improved
on the previous year (when wool prices collapsed).
Victorian trade-union unemployment was 11.3
per cent, in November, as against 15.3 per cent, a
year earlier and a maximum of 27.7 per cent, in
May, 1932. N. S. Wales figures, most depressing and
disheartening for several years, have steadily im-
proved, though not yet on Victoria’s level. Gold-
mining in Westralia and good rains in Queensland
and South Australia have helped in the all-important
problem of finding work for the jobless.
Small wonder at the tonic effect on those
who have savings to invest. The depression has
abundantly demonstrated that active private industries,
besides being the most fruitful means of giving
employment, are also among the soundest of invest-
ments in the long run.
But, as with gold shares, a rising industrial-share
market breeds speculators. Some of these, in order
to hold, have to see still higher prices. They precipi-
tate falls if a setback occurs. Buyers of shares at
present should be prepared to hang on.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Fi. Fa.”: Speaking as one good
trade-unionist to another, I asked a
doctor friend how the B.M.A. was re-
garding the advertising stuff handed out
to the lucky accoucheurs of ladies who
perform their maternal duties on mass-
production lines. For example, such
press statements as the references to Dr.
Harrison, of St. Neots, England, who
presided at the arrival of quadruplets
(“His name will go down in medical
history... .Fame has made no difference
to him.... he is a hustler with unshake-
able and justifiable self-confidence);
also, the blurb handed out to the con-
ductor of the Dionne series of five. His
reply was professionally vague, but in-
dicated that a chap couldn’t be blamed
for taking what advantage he could of
acts of Providence like that. “There’s
this about' it, too,” he said. “If you lose
even one of the litter, you’re done for
midwifery work. Women have no sense
of proportion.”
* ❖ $ *
“Jobber”: War-time souvenirs (B.
5/2/’36)? I brought home a few
and kept them in my bookcase for
years, the main reason for their non-
exhibition being the risk of boring visi-
tors. After a trip to the War Museum in
Sydney, I presented them to the heads.
I have another souvenir which the War
Museum people may have, provided they
find me a cushy job ; they can’t have it
without me, for it’s still in the old possie
—about half an inch from my spine.
“E.W.L.”: Some Diggers still stick to
their souvenirs. One of mine is
a couple of square inches of aero-
plane fabric. South of Ypres in T 7 a
Fritz flier shot down some of our obser-
vation balloons. Later in the day his
or a similar machine was brought down
behind us. My cobber (killed a little
later) arrived back to our bivvy with a
black eye and a piece of wing fabric
about the size of a postcard. He reck-
oned that he had been in three fights and
many arguments, but ventured the
opinion that “a man would have to be
Hackenschmidt to get a fair go with the
mob that was there.” The fragment
keeps his memory green for me.
$ v *l*
“Sailor Once”: Pitcairn Islanders
should regard their lonely abode as a
ship, in which event they would hesi-
tate before detaching other craft from
their lawful ways without good and
sufficient reasons (B. 5/2/’36). There is
historical precedent for so classing an
island. Ascension, on the Cape route,
was borne on the books of the British
Admiralty as a ship until 1922, and a
pukka “four-ringer” strutted his little
day on a grassed quarter-deck. Whale
Island, Portsmouth’s well-known gun-
nery school, is (or was) H.M.S. Excellent
to naval men. Garden Island, although
never classified as a ship, was, until the
Commonwealth took over, under the
jurisdiction of the Admiralty. Its popu-
lation in 1901 was counted in the English
census. I know, because I was one of
those counted.
“Whenever I ’ear that song I can feel meself in the arms of a Harab
shick, bein carried swiftly away acrost the S’ara Dessert."
“Jungor”: There were a few brisk ex-
changes of personalities at the Westra-
lian elections, but on the whole they
were less vitriolic than some which have
been heard in the past. On the hustings
some 30 years ago an explosive Oppo-
sition speaker declared that there wasn’t
a single member of the Government
whom he would “trust with 'a fiver.” He
had the grace, however, or the caution
(being a lawyer) to apologise in print for
the remark a day or two later, explain-
ing that his feelings had run away with
him. And it was a Westralian Premier
who once charged the Opposition leader
with having been surprised in a bar-
parlor after closing-time with a barmaid
on his knee. But he was careful to keep
the accusation for Parliament, where a
man can say the most outrageous things
without fear of the defamation laws or
anything more than a mild reproof from
the Speaker.
* * * *
“Gotha”: A Sydney daily informs
some seeker after knowledge that the
Duke of York is the heir apparent—
and has probably since received a
stack of corrections. An heir appa-
rent, either in the royal family or
the peerage, must succeed to the title
if he outlives the holder of it; an heir
presumptive may, but the birth of a
nearer relative will spoil his chance.
Hence no brother of a reigning king
can be styled the heir apparent, though
he ranks as next in the realm to the
sovereign. York, of course, is the heir
presumptive, the first for whom such a
qualification has been necessary since
Queen Victoria ascended the throne —
and the presumption soon came to
nothing in that case. I wonder how
many people could tell you offhand
who was Victoria’s H.P. until she started
a nursery of her own.
“Innocent Astray”: As a Sydneysider
of long standing a transfer to the Mel-
bourne payroll of my firm finds me a
little bewildered. Cold changes blow in
from the west instead of the south,
autumn leaves are already falling, and
the weather on the whole has been a
good deal hotter than 500 miles further
north. Cars rounding a corner may
travel against traffic signals, and have
already given me (a pedestrian) several
scares as, relying on the authority of the
green and red lights, I step off the foot-
path—to miss being mowed down by
agility and inches. But Melbourne beer
is reasonably good, grapes, may be
bought without seeds, and I have a selec-
tion of morning and afternoon news-
papers to pick from.
* * * *
“Selma”: The people who consider
they can make tea, coffee and pancakes
better than anybody else are legion. At
a party in a Sydney suburb a youth
asserted that pancake-making was a
lost art—except by himself. An enthu-
siastic company invited him to go
kitchenwards and make some, a sug-
gestion followed with alacrity and by
most of the guests. He spent some time
in mixing the ingredients, and when the
first pancake went into the pan we all
waited anxiously for developments. They
came when the cook essayed to toss the
thing, which hit the ceiling and left a
large greasy stain on its immaculate
whiteness. The second went into the
sink ■ amid the screams of the onlookers,
but it was reserved for the third to make
a really sensational hit. It selected the
hostess with unerring aim, smacked her
in the face, sent a splather of grease over
a new grey silk gown and an expensive
perm., and, slithering downwards, came
to rest on her grey suede slippers. She
calculated that pancake cost her ten
pounds.
* *
“Keg.”: Kylie Tennant’s country
school-teacher (B. 5/2/’36) is only in the
kindergarten class in the matter of
letters. A Sydney tram-conductor is re-
ported by letter, anonymous or signed,
more often than any employee in cap-
tivity. A special staff deals with that
part of our life, and it is kept mov-
ing. Complaints range from the merely
silly to the close-to-libellous: we had to
take one case to the courts to protect
a conductor’s good name. It is a matter
of discontent that we have to defend
ourselves, without any attempt by the
department to test the probity of the
complainant.
* * * *
“El V.”: The ancient custom of divid-
ing a banknote for safety in transmis-
sion was not confined to honest men. I
remember a burglar captured in Queens-
land who had in his possession the right-
hand halves of about £2OO. He explained
that the division was “insurance”; his
mate had the other halves, and
they had agreed to keep them in sepa-
rated condition until it was safe to pass
them in country towns. The method
ensured that no evil-disposed person
among their joint acquaintance could
get at the spoils in one piece. And it
certainly gave the convicted one a lever
to do a bit of negotiation with the police
before indictment, though the luckless
holder of the second halves had not bar-
gained for that.
* * * *
“J.C.Y.”: Some of our Government
departments can’t be charged with lack
of loyalty ; I have just received my land-
and income-tax demand (from M.L.) in
a mourning envelope. It seems to have
more than a passing appropriateness; I
suggest that Savage continues the
practice.
❖ :Jj s*« *
“E.W.L.”: My view of King George,
like “Bokio’s” (B. 5/2/’36), was rather a
limited one. He inspected our unit on
Salisbury Plain on a particularly bleak
day. Only his good nature and devotion
to duty could have brought him out:
H.M. was obviously suffering from
catarrh and should have been in bed. As
he passed our group a tired voice from
the rear rank came over quite clearly:
“Cripes, he looks better on a two-bob
piece to me.”
“M. 8”: Hate to spoil “Scribe’s” day
with royalty (B. 5/2/’36), but must
admit to a nagging curiosity as to the
sort of birds the late King “went out
scouting for” outside Sale, Gippsland;
also as to the “gamekeeper.” What sort
of game did they “keep” on Pearson’s
station? And were poachers trouble-
some?
* # * *
“Thespian”: Curious is the attraction
of the movies for “wanted” men.
Dillinger, Public Enemy No. 1 in
the U.S.A., met his death in conse-
quence of having
emerged from his hid-
ing-place for a night
at the pictures. And
the habit has appar-
ently extended to this
country. Moxley, who
was hanged in Sydney
a few years ago, during
the period when he was
lying perdu in French’s
Forest with a price on
his head cycled, he de-
clared, to Mosman and
became a patron of
this form of drama
for two or three hours.
And at the inquest on
Penrose, the 18-year-
old gunman who shot
a police constable on
New Year’s Eve and
shot himself, when cor-
nered in a cellar, a few
days later, a girl friend
deposed that she had “been to the pic-
tures with him” a few hours before his
death, and when police and detectives
were scouring and combing the city for
the fugitive.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Stranger than anything written
by Poe or Conan Doyle was the case of
the tattooed arm, disgorged by a cap-
tive shark in a Sydney pool, and identi-
fied at an abortive trial as having be-
longed to a man who has not returned
to endorse the identification or deny it.
For two months the Melbourne detec-
tives have been wrestling with an affair
almost as fantastically horrible —the mys-
tery of the murdered vicar. A muscular
Christian grown old, the vicar lived
alone in bachelor quarters near his
church, which is in a crowded part of
Fitzroy. It was known that he had a
considerable private income, but it was
known also that he gave most of it to
the poor. For 19 years he had labored
in his corner of the vineyard, cultivating
a bent for music, spending his money
in the alleviation of distress and seem-
ingly without an enemy in the world. Yet
parishioners found the friendly soul dead
in his vicarage, with fearful wounds on
the head. He had evidently been attacked
in his study, and had staggered out in
an effort to reach the front door, only
to fall lifeless in the passageway. Many
hours must have elapsed before the body
was discovered ; meanwhile the assailant
had washed his guilty hands in a jug
of water, left bloodstained in the passage*
and made a leisurely escape. Certain
documents on which names were written
were found in the study, and detectives
throughout Australia were bidden to
assist in the search for the owners of the
names. Now an arrest has been made.
A LEAP-YEAR LILT.
Listen, Jean and Joan and Nancy—all who
entertain a fancy
For becoming the fiancee of some estimable
man —
Ordinary times you couldn’t ask him if he
would or wouldn’t
(Or at all events you shouldn’t); now with-
out a qualm you can.
You can word him straight and squarely, put
it to him frankly, fairly,
Briskly, brightly, debonairly if a date with
you he’ll keep
For the ceremonious altar and the matrimonial
halter,
For in leap year—never falter—
You may leap.
You may show you hold him highly, lure him
on demurely, shyly,
Or perhaps a trifle slyly to the immemorial
chase,
But such maidenly repressions and traditional
discretions
Needn’t constitute obsessions in the present
year of grace.
You may let him think he’s doing all the
necessary wooing;
Should he slacken in pursuing, though, and
seem inclined to creep,
You yourself may do the winning and the
galling and the pinning,
For you’re bound to knock him spinning
When you leap!
Normally the rule of sex is, though I’ve known
a few complexes,
That the lordly male annexes, when amen-
able, his mate.
Till he asks her to surrender to his spell, the
soft and tender
Party of the other gender is supposed to
coyly wait.
But ’tis surely only reason now and then
should be a season
She may tread the pitch that he’s on —and
the privilege to reap
May be ceded to her
owing to the fact
she’s done the
sowing,
And she’s knowing
where she’s going
Should she
leap.
Thirty-six, here’s greet-
ings many! Wed-
dings you should
bring in any
Quantity, with Jack
and Jenny in their
usual roles re-
versed.
Rifts will close and
hitches scatter
when it really
doesn’t matter
If the former or the
latter pops the
fateful question first.
Let reporters scream and coo-ee and distribute
clotted hooey
On the fish at Bermagui Zane is yanking from
the deep,
There’ll be better human catches swishing
round, I’ll bet, in batches,
Many a merry maid’s dispatches marked for
matrimonial matches.
And before they’re under hatches
Won’t they leap!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo” : The new G.-G. should be able to
have some interesting talks with Attorney-
General Menzies and “the Director
of Employment,” provided all of them
know something of the history of their
Caledonian ancestors. An old sixteenth-
century map of Scotland, giving the clan
divisions, discloses that the localities of
the clans Gowrie, Menzies and Stewart
were contiguous, the river Tay cutting
through all three. Doubtless in those
virile and bellicose days the three clans
on each other’s borders brawled lustily,
but it is a far cry from the Tay to the
Molonglo.
* * * *
“Vandorian”: Doubt has-been cast on
the statement (B. 12/2/’36) that the late
Colonel Cox-Taylor designed the A.I.F.
badge. There is no room for doubt; the
badge was designed in 1902 for the First
Commonwealth Horse, of which Cox-
Taylor was adjutant; Colonel Lyster was
commander. The badge was chosen by
die-sinkers in Melbourne as the most
practical for reproduction ; several other
designs submitted by Captain Cox-Taylor
(who was quite a good amateur in
sketches and water-colors) were dis-
carded as too elaborate. The Bulletin’s
account, ftke those in the Sydney
“Herald” and “Sun,” is absolutely
correct.
* * * *
“A.R.”: “Findy” (B. 5/2/’36) has
omitted two words from the title of S.A.
Police Commissioner Tolmer’s autobiog-
raphy, the full name having been Remi-
niscences of an Adventurous and
Chequered Career at Home and in the
Antipodes. The copy in our home in
the ’eighties came through Tolmer’s close
friend F. O. Bryant, father of the late
H. W. Bryant, barrister, of Melbourne,
and F. E. Bryant, for long manager of
the Union Bank at Sydney. I read the
book at about the age of 12 or 14 after
ascertaining the meaning of “chequered”
—before that I had the notion that any-
thing to do with cheques connoted
wealth.
% % if:
“Omadhaun”: I’m all in favor of
those Irish names (B. 12/2/’36) myself.
Who wouldn’t respect a country in
which the successive Ministers for De-
fence were named Deasmhumhan Mac-
Gearailt and Proinnsias O h-Aodhagain?
And think how little, in the Ould Dart,
one would be at a loss for words when
the telephone went wrong or a curse
was needed for the telegram department.
It would be a profane man, indeed,
whose rage did not go up in smoke after
one anguished shout of “Och! An
Seanadoir Seosamh O Conghaile! ”
which, in plain English, is merely “Oh,
Senator Joe Connolly”—the P.M.G. And
I am certain that even Egon Kisch could
have loved an Attorney-General named
Conchubar Alasdair MagUidhir.
* * *
“Friday Island”: That paragraph (B.
12 2 36) re Gordon Childe takes me
back 26 years, when he was pointed out
with awe at Sydney University as being
able to translate Sanskrit into Greek
fluently. Incidentally, how many in Aus-
tralia can read Sanskrit? A few wan-
dering gipsies may know something of
it. George Borrow maintained that gipsy
language was spoken Sanskrit.
•i* *i*
“Fisher’s Ghost”: The Digger who
commandeered a couple of Bedouins
(not three) to make up his complement
of Turkish prisoners was hardly the in-
vention that “Red Cap” assumes (B.
“Well, thish is a nicesh time to come home and find you shtill in bed!”
5/2/’36). The incident is recorded in
Volume VII (Sinai) of the Official His-
tory of Australia in the War, in a foot-
note, immediately after the account of
the second battle of Gaza. As for the
trouble with Turkish uniforms, there was
not the kind of precision in the matter
that one associates with the Guards, as
hessian wears out rapidly on service. And
Turks were very ready to dump their
rifles when captured.
$ - * * *
“Sixenate”: In a suburban police court
the other day a witness described a cer-
tain man as a “herring,”
and it fell to a John
Hop to supply the
puzzled magistrate with
an interpretation. A
herring, it seems, is an
accomplice of others
engaged in such pur-
suits as bag-snatching
and shoplifting. When
an outcry is raised he
ostentatiously bolts,
thus drawing the pur-
suit, whilst the real
culprit with the goods
“What an extraordinary name!"
“ Yes—the feller who christened it hit his thumb with the champagne
bottle.”
on him slips unostentatiously away. The
accomplice is the “herring across the
track.”
* * * *
“Balbus”: I suspect that “Becks” (B.
12/2/’36), who objects to the use of the
“a” plural in “honoraria” and kindred
words as “pedantic and out-of-date,”
occasionally employs it himself. I am
pretty sure that, though he might speak
or write of “referendums,” he wouldn’t
write or speak of “propagandums.” Ad-
mittedly the latter, borrowed from the
Latin word, is never used in the
singular in our current usage,
though there is really no reason
why it shouldn’t be. And the
two gerundives are blood-brothers, so to
speak.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Booleroo (S.A.) is inquiring
into an amazing accident —if accident it
can have been. A traveller’s car, left in
a public garage, came to life about mid-
night and charged out, in reverse,
through the closed doors. It went across
the street, to wreck a fence and some
trees, then circled and crossed again, to
wreck the front of a store and to finish
it's burst of activity jambed between the
counters.
“K wakprak”: Swallowing
safety-pins seems to be a rela-
tively harmless diversion. A
14-year-old girl who swallowed
one at Dajarra (n.-w. Q.) was
rushed to Brisbane by ’plane,
fed on cotton-wool sandwiches
and was able to put the pin to
its normal uses a day or two
later. In student days, before
X-rays, I helped to treat a
gentlemaa who, flown with
strong waters, had swallowed
seven safety-pins for a bet. He
got his pins back without inci-
dent, except for an unpleasant
diet. In later years a distracted
mother rushed into the surgery
with a smiling infant and the
safety-pin story—same result.
Still later, on a sea
voyage, a four-month
baby gobbled a 2|in.
safety-pin, open. En-
deavors at reassure-
ment from previous ex-
perience did not com-
fort the parents much,
but the safety-pin duly
came to light. In ail
cases the pins were
closed when recovered. I looked up the
subject once, but in many thousands of
hospital accident deaths could not find
one from a swallowed safety-pin.
* * * *
“Memoria”: A slight amendment to
“Kwakprak’s” paragraph about the com-
piler of the Thesaurus (B. 29/1/’36).
Norman Lindsay did not write “Ode to
Peter Mark Roget,” published years ago
in the Inky Way column of The Bulle-
tin. Norman Lilley did.
“Captain Pintle”: One won-
ders how the new-fashioned
lady apprentice in the grain-
fleet square-rigger (she some-
times marries the skipper) gets
on with compass bearings of
the wind on shore. Out in the
boat my missus is as good a
hand as you’d want at steer-
ing by compass. In a breeze
she’ll refer to it as s.-s.-e. or
whatever it is, just like any
other sailor. But once ashore
the compass card fades clean
out: instead of the wind being
n.-w. it’s “into the spare bed-
room window” ; n.-e. is “right
into the back door.” The
strife’s star shore effort was
after a thunderstorm from the
s.-w. which shifted s.-e. after
the first hard blow: “Straight
into the washhouse window
and then through the stable.”
She says compasses aren’t
needed on shore, where you
have all sorts of easier ways
of telling where the wind is
coming from. Knew another
skipper’s missus who had made
many voyages and was quite
a fair navigator. But she never
knew the compass bearings of her own
house.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: I fancy “Janus” (B.
5/2/’36) has been looking in the wrong
place for the origin of that phrase “the
long, long canker of peace,” but if
Tennyson ever used it he borrowed (and
varied) it from Shakspeare (Henry IV.,
Act IV, Scene 2). There Falstaff, snort-
ing at the poor material of the soldiers
raised by a forced levy, describes them
as “cankers of a calm world and a long
peace” ; but he was describing the men
and not the peace that produced them,
and the context shows that he rated them
as the left-overs of humanity after the
civil war had used up the good fighting
material.
* * *' #
“Lordluvus”: The recent trial of a
peer by his peers—the charge was man-
slaughter—is likely to be the last of its
kind ; the law is to be altered to elimi-
nate this quaint and expensive anachron-
ism. But what puzzled me most about
it was a statement made by somebody in
authority after the trial to the effect that
the acquitted nobleman couldn’t have been
indicted in any other court even had ha
wished to be. It hardly seemed to square
with the fact that another hereditary law-
maker, a shipping magnate, left the
Old Bailey a few years ago to .serve
twelve months’ imprisonment for issuing
prospectuses which a jury had found
fraudulent. But now another statement,
from a law lord this time, clears up the
position. A peer charged with felony
must be tried by his peers ; where it is
only a misdemeanor, even if the offence
may carry a heavy penalty, the ordinary
courts deal with him. The distinction
between a felony and a misdemeanor is
still a well-defined one in England,
although in the U.S.A. it has entirely
disappeared. Incidentally, one wonders
if the nobleman who got his gruel at
the Old Bailey would have come off any
better in the House of Lords if the
charge against him had been a graver
one.
* * * *
“Findy”: Speaking of Jacobites—sub-
ject of a Service Department query (B.
12/2/’36) —one of their recent journals
described the festivities at Holywell in
celebration of the Glorious Restoration
of Charles 11. The celebrations, it seems,
took place some time during the “reign”
of Mary IV. (apparently about 1903) —
by the Jacobite calendar the present is
the sixteenth year of King Rupert’s
reign. At the village of Holywell “cot-
tages were nearly hidden with oak
branches, and every man, woman and
child made holiday.” At the White
Horse Inn, a song with the refrain
We are Jacobites warm and true,
A small but gallant crew,
was trolled out by diehards who recog-
nise no sovereign but “the king over the
water,” yet presumably pay their income
tax to the usurpers without protest.
Finally the picturesque rebels marched in
procession at 10 p.m. to a bonfire, on
which they burnt a copy of the Act of
Succession, 1701. The enthusiasm “as
the flames leapt up and consumed the
iniquitous Act knew no bounds.” And
so to bed presumably. But read the
epilogue:
An early-morning train brought us back
to town refreshed by the beautiful country
air, and inspired with new zeal to fight the
good fight.
THE ONE EXCEPTION.
“A new translation of the Bible designed to make
it more acceptable to Nazis is being prepared in
* Germany. It is suggested that the Founder of
Christianity was really of Aryan descent, and excuse
is found for St. Paul as his writings were anti-
Jewish.”
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph—whence the
Hebrew race descended —
All are objects of suspicion in the sturdy
Nazi’s view;
Holy Writ must be revised and expurgated and
amended
Till there’s nothing in the Scriptures favor-
able to a Jew.
Ev’ry reference to Moses will be banished, one
supposes;
Aaron, Joshua, Eli, Samuel needs must
vanish, one and all.
And the only truth dispenser who may hope
to dodge the censor
Will be Paul.
Famous prophets will be shorn of all their
credit and belittled;
Job will go into the discard for his Israel-
itish blood ;
Jeremiah and Isaiah, also David, will be
skittled,
And Elijah’s glory darkened, and the Wise
Man’s name be Mud.
For the slightest taint Semitic grates upon the
Nazi critic,
And he looks upon the Chosen Race with
undiluted gall.
Only one of-Bible sages will escape these Teuton
rages—
Roman Paul! •
’Twill be rough on the Disciples. But ’twill
make the Good Book sweeter,
Purer, too, for little children in their Sunday-
schools to con,
When oblivion descends upon the deeds and
words of Peter
And obscurity enwraps the very names of
James and John.
In the wild, insensate fury that’s directed
against Jewry
It’s apparent that the Bible must be cut to
compass small,
And there’ll be no text for sermons palatable
to the Germans
Save in Paul.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


V
20 forlG
9' 1
10/
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
-
■
MZt ' ' h
I
I: , " ■
s«:;
f
; §.x>r.
Vrijfc
.
■
GENE BAT
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
In the last Westralian Assembly there
were 30 Laborites, 12 Cockies and eight
Nats. Labor has lost two seats to Nats.,
one to a Cocky and one to an Indepen-
dent (its Public Enemy No. 1, “Diver”
Hughes); 26 to 24. A close thing, but
Collier can carry on.
Apparently few countries are now keen
on imposing an oil boycott, but there
might be a majority for the dangerous
expedient if Uncle Sam were willing to
be “the mug.” Uncle gets quite nasty
when the subject is mentioned. Mean-
while Dominions other than Australia,
for which the great Mr. Eden decides
everything, continue to assert their right
to determine their relations with Italy.
South Africa even refuses to stop sub-
sidising Italian steamers.
So far from copying the “Yes, Mr.
Eden!” attitude of the Government at
Canberra, the Canadian Prime Minister
has been taking credit for repudiating
and recalling the Canadian delegate at
Geneva,who suggested an oil boycott
without authority. He claims that the
Government’s action prevented a Euro-
pean war, and possibly it did.
The Vic. Cockies have to contest the
Allandale by-election, but the necessity
is anything but agreeable. The “Age”
urges them to remember that “the second
preference votes of C.P. candidates have
enabled the U.A.P. to obtain a number
of seats” ; but the Cockies are uneasily
conscious of the fact that the second
preference votes of U.A.P. candidates
have enabled the C.P. to obtain a
number of seats.
Stewart', M.H.R., has imported some
prize hogs and taken out a license to
conduct a piggery, it being his ambition
to improve the breed of pigs. Now will
he think out a way of improving the
breed of politicians?
Commissions and yet more commis-
sions! The royal commission on bank-
ing has entered upon its unnecessary
labors; and soon there will be an
elaborate Commonwealth inquiry into
hours of labor. Last financial year the
Commonwealth spent £46,000 on com-
missions, bringing the total cost of those
then in existence to £75,000-odd. That’s
where some of the money goes.
For the first time since 1929 Australia
has gained by migration: “permanent”
arrivals exceeded “permanent” departures
by 1257 last year. But there was the
usual loss of British people, 918 in fact;
the difference was made up chiefly by
1495 Italians, 253 Greeks, 221 Yugoslavs
and 111 “Americans.” And the “Ameri-
cans” were largely colored gemmum im-
ported by boxing promoters.
“Labor Daily” headlines, spread over
eight columns:
Don’t Pawn Australia, Use It, Says Lang.
Lang pawned his section of Australia
for as much as “Shylock” would let him
have. Then he used it —up.
“S. M. Herald” got a bright young
lecturer on economics from the Univer-
sity to contribute an article on a pet
theme, Loan Expenditure Facilitates
General Recovery. And perhaps it does,
even as indulgence in alcohol facilitates
genferal exhilaration. But exhilaration and
recovery depart, leaving trouble behind.
The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled out
as unconstitutional a Louisiana news-
paper tax imposed by Huey Long, now
with God. Johnny Lang tried the same
thing on in his first Premiership, with
the same result.
“Balancing the Budget” is no exact
science. Figures can be made to prove
anything. They tell a story at Canberra
of a Treasurer who was asked by the
press at the close of the financial year
what the surplus was. He replied: “I
can’t tell you until I ring up the P.M.
and find out what figure he wants to
give out.”
Malcolm MacDonald is in for Ross
and Cromarty, but at the general elec-
tion Sir lan Macpherson, whose place
he takes, polled nearly 10,000 more votes
than MacDonald’s total, though the latter
had meantime been promoted to the
Dominions office. There were four can-
didates: Winston Churchill’s son, albeit
a bad third, saved his deposit, but a Lib.
lost his. This representative of “the great
Liberal party” whose newspapers’ foreign
“news” is rammed down Australian
throats got 738 votes out of 18,081.
Alone among the seven Cabinets and
Parliaments, Westralian Ministers and
members (along with the rest of the
“Crown employees” in the State alleged
to be suffering from oppression) are back
on their boom-time salaries; and the
oracle was worked with Commonwealth
tax-revenue. Called upon to defend this
RECRUITS WANTED.
(A Victorian Laborite suggests that the poster would be more effective.)
particular distribution of the easy money,
Collier tried to make a virtue of it:
Ministers, in common with higher-paid
officers, did not receive the benefit of this
action until six weeks before the election
we are facing.
High and low “received the benefit of
this action,” and the “action” was dashed
well timed.
Another report on Newnes (N.S.W.)
shale has moved Lyons to announce that
7,250,000 gallons p.a. of petrol could be
extracted from the deposits for 20 years,
but it would need to be duty-free, and
the loss in excise revenue would amount
to £3,330,000. “S. M. Herald” remarks,
superfluously: “This does not mean that
Cabinet has come to a final decision in
the matter.” Apart from giving tax-
money away to importunate States and
sections, has the “Herald” ever known
Cabinet to come to a final decision on
any matter?
Maoriland Labor, having climbed into
office, intends to establish a daily news-
paper in each of the four cities. The first
prospectus comes from Christchurch,
where, with a capital of £lOO,OOO pro-
vided by the public, it is proposed to put
a morning journal in the field under the
title of the “Times.” E. C. Huie, founder
of the recently-absorbed “Sun,” is to be
managing director, and with him on the
board are Ministers Nash and Sullivan.
A hundred “management shares,” giv-
ing power to control policy, veto
changes in articles of association or sale
of the undertaking, are to be held in trust
for the Labor party. Circulation expected
is 25,000, and profit at the outset at the
rate of p.c. on full share capital.
Seems optimistic.
First of the M.L. Government-appointed
boards to be given its “running shoes”
(Public Works Minister Semple’s phrase)
is the Railways Board. Control reverts to
the general manager, who is responsible
only to the Minister. The present g.m is
G. H. Mackley, well liked by the service.
Maoriland railways have had many
forms of management. From 1876 to
1881 they were under the Public Works
Department. Then a Working Railways
Department was formed. From 1889 to
1894 control was vested in three Com-
missioners. The general manager ruled
the roost from 1894 to 1925, when a
Railways Board was appointed. It lasted
till 1928, when the g.m. again took
charge. In 1931 another board was set
up, and carried on till the latest altera-
tion. Deficit for 1935, a million and
a quarter.
The Social Credit gang in Alberta is
now asserting that Premier ’Ave-a-heart
never promised the $25 a month on
which he won the provincial election, and
which he has since described as “a figure
of speech.” They have been answered
memorably by one of the few remaining
Liberal members:
I heard the Premier say that it could
and would be paid. The Premier promised
and the people accepted his promise—
standing in the pulpit with hands raised
and eyes toward heaven he promised it.
No denial came from Mr. ’Ave-a-heart,
who was present.
As a rule, Westralian politicians con-
duct their controversies decorously, but
both Premier Collier and Keenan, the
Nat. leader, departed from the rule dur-
ing the late campaign. Collier accused
Keenan of having started it, and then laid
about him with such vigor that Keenan
threatened to “tell the public a few things
it ought to know about Mr. Collier.”
Then evidently both elderly gentlemen
decided that they ought to have known
better ; anyway, the flow of personalities
suddenly stopped.
Earle Page’s departure for London was
made the occasion for an eruption of
“arguments” defending these pilgrim-
ages of politicians and public servants.
Trethowan, M.L.C., “deprecated” criti-
cism of them ; Deputy Premier Bruxner
was “amused” at it, and Stewart, M.H.R.,
said that “if all the money spent by Gov-
ernments had results as valuable, the
public would have very little to worry
about.” Plunging into another subject,
Stewart added:
When people who claim to be authori-
ties say that trams offer a complete
medium for city transport, they are tell-
ing you what they want t 6 tell you.
But wasn’t that said by one of those
transport bosses who have been seven
months abroad?
Norman Cowper, who was in London
last year, tried to get an interview with
Anthony Eden, but it couldn’t be
arranged. Telling Sydney “Sun” all
about it, Mr. Cowper acknowledges that
a mutual acquaintance “surprised me by
saying ‘l’m afraid you will be dis-
appointed in Anthony; he is really very
small beer.’ ” Mr. Cowper protests that
Mr. Eden is a living wonder:
Respected by the House of Commons,
he allies tact, courtesy and discretion to
readiness of speech; he has scored diplo-
matic success by firmness and skill; he
fights resourcefully and gallantly to make
collective security a reality.
Contemplating the cadaverous appear-
ance of collective security, and Mr.
Eden’s success in thrusting Italy into Ger-
many’s arms and dragging Britain into
dubious arrangements with Russia and
other rotten allies, one feels that the
mutual acquaintance knows best.
A striking demonstration of the
changes effected by the “co-ordinated
service” introduced by Queensland’s
Transport Commissars has been received
by a Buderim man who ordered a case
of apples from Stanthorpe. Rail freight
is Is. 6d. for 258 miles ; road-freight is
Is. for nine miles from the “co-ordinated”
station, which is not the nearest. After
waiting for three days, he found that the
fruit was lying at the station, and an-
other 6d. went in telephone calls to
arrange its delivery. Total cost, 35., with
several days’ delay and deterioration
thrown in. Before co-ordinated services
were invented, similar consignments
came through in 24 hours, at a total cost
of Is. 9d., door to door.
Efforts to resuscitate the local A.M.F.
battalion have been the means of reveal-
ing that in Lismore, a prosperous N.S.W.
town with 13,000 inhabitants, there were
only six (6) citizen soldiers in training at
the finish. That is what the Scullin-
Lyons-Parkhill voluntary system has got
down to. Although Europe and most
of Asia have become armed camps again,
Lyons and Parkhill are afraid to revive
national service because it might cost
their party votes.
Among boards that the new M.L. Gov-
ernment seems likely to extinguish are
the Dairy Produce Export Control Board
(1923), Meat Producers’ Board (1921),
Poultry Board (1933), Honey Board
(1924), Fruit Export Control Board (1924),
Kauri Gum Control Board (1925) and
the Tobacco Board (1935). Their func-
tions, if it is desired to continue them,
will be transferred to the appropriate
Government departments.


HOLED IN TWO.


Q
SAVE UP TO R JUGFUL OF PETROL
every hour you drive by using
SHELL
■ ■ ■
Save up to a nobbier of
petrol on every start after
parking.
Save up to a tumbler of
7" petrol on every hard 10
minutes’ pull.
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MONEY
Save up to a jugful of
petrol on every hour’s steady
Vv running.
S 56 C
PERSONAL ITEMS
Departure from the Federal Treasury
of S. G. McFarlane means a nice plum
for someone. “Mac” was one of the
Government nominees on the directorate
of C.0.R., at £3OO a year—a useful addi-
tion to an official income.
S. A. Lord, secretary of the Sydney
S.P.C.A., is a round and kindly person
with a practical organising mind and a
born love of animals which makes him
an ideal secretary to the Sydney S.P.C.A.
His name has appeared in the press lately
in connection with protests by his mem-
S. A. LORD, the dogs’ friend.
bers against the “cruelty” of big-game
fishing. Lord says that the matter has
not yet been before his council, which
will consider it later.
The tall, courteous form of A. E. Bar-
day, president of the British Institute
of Radiology, and twice president' of the
8.M.A., flitted through Sydney and Bris-
bane during the week on the way to Java
on the Dutch liner Nieuw Zeeland. He
is radiologist to the Edinburgh Royal
Infirmary, and his pioneer work on the
radiology of the digestive tract and on
the development of X-ray cinemato-
graphy will be remembered in history.
From Patagonia comes J. A. Jamieson,
whose estancia is on Rio Callegos, just a
few miles to the north of Cape Virgins at
the eastern entrance to the Magellan
Strait. He has temporarily deserted his
150,000-acre holding to study Australian
sheep methods. His father, Henry
Jamieson, a S. Australian, pioneered
sheep in Patagonia. Starting in 1878, it
took him two years to drove his flock
from Buenos Ayres to Rio Callegos.
“H.M.”: Few men did more to put the
Australian “underworld” on the map than
Harry Maddison, who was 65 when he
died the other day. Even when he was
chief sub. of the “Argus” he revelled in
“inside stories” of underworld doings ;
Maddison made that weedy little law-
breaker “Squizzy” Taylor a public figure,
and as a reward was threatened with a
violent end —a threat which he treated
lightly. He was a very quiet man and
a very likeable one.
Westralian Agent-General Colebatch —
ex-Senator, and before that for years a
State Minister and once Premier for two
or three weeks—listened-in to the pro-
gress results of Saturday’s elections at
the Savage Club, London. At Northam
one of his sons made an unsuc-
cessful attempt to wrest the seat
from Labor. Northam* provided James
Mitchell (now Lieutenant - Governor)
with a seat from 1906 to 1933, when
it went back on him and elected a
Labor man in Hawke, an importation
from S.A. with a brief Parliamentary
record there. Like his father, the younger
Colebatch has been Mayor of the town-
ship ; the local paper has been the prop-
erty of the family for years. The A.-G.’s
other son is a singer who has appeared
in grand opera in Europe.
Westralia has now two Assembly-
women. Miss May Holman, whose
father was one of the State’s first Labor
members, has found no difficulty in hold-
ing the Forrest seat, where the timber-
workers have all the say, ever since his
death. She is now joined—or faced —
by Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, who has won
Subiaco from Labor for the Nationalists.
Widow of a doctor, Mrs. Cardell-Oliver
opposed Jack Curtin, the present Federal
Labor leader, for the Fremantle division
at the last Commonwealth elections. It is
rather curious that Westralia, where men
probably outnumber women more than
in any part of the Commonwealth, should
be the only State where the sex is repre-
sented in Parliament.
“Sixenate”: When I was junior in the
law there was a lady named Florence
Nightingale by whom revolutionary-
minded solicitors in Sydney occasionally
had some typing done. They found it
useful for draft documents which were
subject to discussion and alteration ; for
nobody would have thought of presenting
a final document in anything but hand-
script. Miss Nightingale had opened
her office in 1888, introducing some
of the first machines used commercially
in Sydney ; she was cousin to the Lady
of the Lamp, and that helped in the Syd-
ney of those days. She carried on the
business until 20 years ago, and was 81
when she died the other day.
Patrick Charles Webb, universally
known as Paddy, Maoriland’s new
Minister of Mines, has done a bit of
toying with the
bowels of the
earth in his time.
He worked in coal-
mines in Westland
in pre-war times,
and was elected to
Parliament for the
coalmining consti-
tuency of Grey in
1913. He didn’t
approve of con-
scription, made
speeches against it
that were reckoned
seditious, and went
to gaol for a year,
losing his seat in
consequence. When
he came out he
joined Bob Semple
(now Public Works
Minister) on a co-
operative contract
to dig a long tunnel.
Australasian
records for speed
were broken on
that job. Later
Paddy became
business represen-
tative in Christ-
church for one of the Westland col-
lieries and prospered greatly. He owns
some speedy horses, and no meeting
at Riccarton is complete without him.
“PADDY” WEBB, Maoriland’s Minister
of Mines.
But' his Labor principles are intact, and
Buller (another Westland mining district)
sent him back to Parliament at last elec-
tion after an absence from the House
of 18 years.
Gilbert Murray, who retires from the
Professorship of Greek at Oxford at the
age of 70, is the greatest classical
scholar Australia has produced. Son
of a President of N.S.W. Legislative
Council and a brother of Murray of
Papua, he was born in Sydney and edu-
cated in England at the Merchant
Taylors’ school and Oxford. At 22, he
was Professor of Greek at Glasgow. He
has been called the best of all trans-
lators of Greek drama, and men of letters,
such as John Galsworthy, valued his help
and his friendship, made the more
pleasant' by his sense of fun and his
boundless mental resource and energy.
He, for most of his life, has worked
ceaselessly in the cause of international
peace, and was a founder of the League
of Nations Union. He married a daugh-
ter of the Earl of Carlisle, whose young-
est sister married another well-known
Australian —Tom McLeod, of Long-
reach (Q.), one of the Commonwealth’s
pioneer flying men. A cousin of
Commonwealth Governor-General Lord
Gowrie married the present Earl of
Carlisle, nephew of the two wives.
O. C. K. Corrie, chief puisne Judge
of Palestine, becomes the Chief Justice
of Fiji in the room of Maxwell Ander-
son, who was originally a naval cap-
tain before he took to the law. He thus
achieves a unique distinction —the C.J'.
in Suva is the only Judge in the Pacific
whom the local newspapers still dignify
with the title “his Lordship.”
“Taalpa”: Dead at Wiluna (W.A.) at
59, Captain George A. Millington, re-
membered by many Diggers. He carried
32,204 Australian and British troops dur-
ing the Great War, and was mentioned in
dispatches. Born at Bridlington, York-
shire, Millington joined the navy when
14, and saw service in the Boxer rising
and with the naval brigade at Ladysmith
in the Boer War. He was in command
of the Borda, just off Durban, when
the Great War -broke out. A bogus
wireless message, purporting to come
from a British cruiser, but sent by a
German ship, instructed him to steer for
Las Palmas, but the captain, suspicious,
took the opposite course. He was only
26 when appointed a P. and O. line
master.
. After enduring
the ravages of
Queensland’s sun-
blasted climate for
a matter of 70
years, Thomas Bal-
loti has died at
Murgon, aged 90.
A Londoner born,
he reached Bris-
bane in 1865 by
the clipper ship
Flying Cloud, and
filled in the next
40 years with a
variety of occupa-
tions, ranging from
railway construc-
tion to manufactur-
ing confectionery.
He retired in 1906,
but the climate had
affected him to
such an extent that
in the following
year he emerged to
pioneer an exten-
sive group land-
settlement scheme
at Murgon, 93
miles from Mary-
borough. The en-
suing 29 years of active and successful
work proved too much for his under-
mined constitution. He left a widow
and a family of eight.
Colonel C. St. Clair Cameron, who
marched at the head of the Australian
contingent at Edward Vll.’s coronation,
is off again to London. He was one of
the Tasmanian Senators elected in 1901,
and stayed elected for 10 years. As a
soldier, the colonel fought in the Afghan
War of 1878-79 with the 9th Lancers.
In the Boer War, he commanded the
first Speck contingent. His domain at
The Nile (Tas.) is as well known as the
Port Arthur ruins ; and his beard —well,
that’s something worth looking at, too.
H. R. Forbes Mackay has something of
the quality of the granite of his native
Scotland. In 28 years as head of the
Sydney city municipal electricity supply,
“All-electric”
now transferred to a county council,
he has become a little weatherbeaten,
but there are no signs of erosion on him.
Forbes Mackay built the Bunnerong
power house, and has seen electricity
grow from a minor industry to one of
the most universal of commonplace
necessities.
The retirement of J. T. Scrymgeour
from Shorthorn breeding is a big loss to
the beef industry. In 1914 Scrymgeour
was a slim young studmaster leading
his first strings into Queensland show
rings. In France, he was shot through the
head and made irreparably blind. With
the help of his wife, a devoted war nurse,
he soon got over his disabilities. He finds
his way round his property, which is
specially arranged as a blind maffs
station, types his own letters and is
accounted one of the best judges of a
Shorthorn in Australia. He can identify
any animal of quality by touch* and
criticise its points with the best judges.
His Netherby stud is the No. 1 stud
of Queensland, and he has won cham-
pionships and a host of blue ribbons at
both Sydney and Brisbane Royal Shows.
From “O.P.H.’s” Billy Book:
Stories about Hughes are legion. He is
becoming a legend himself. When proposals
for dispossessing him from the Prime Minis-
tership were being discussed under the lap in
1922, one of his colleagues said “You’ll never
push Billy off his perch. He’ll have to be
scraped off.”
Scraped off he was, but he didn’t have to be
scraped back into the Lyons Ministry. Some
of his colleagues looked sour when he entered
Cabinet again, but there was no help for it.
Said Billy to the newspapermen: “Yes, you
can say I’m in Canberra.” “Are you in the
Ministry?” he was asked. “Well, they’re going
to swear me in this afternoon,” he said, “and
after that I’ll do all the swearing.” He will.
After the ceremony that afternoon Billy
looked thoughtfully through the bay windows
of a room at Government House to the lovely
view beyond. “Do you like this as well as the
Harbor view?” he asked the Governor-General.
“You can’t compare two things entirely dif-
ferent,” was Lord Gowrie’s cautious reply.
“Well, I suppose you’ll find it all right,” said
Billy; “they say you can get to like the view
on Devil Island.”


wwm.
*mm
h wr
mm
mm
YSY// S"
~Y&
" •
/ I
:jW
W'y'WM'-.
: : :
llililii
■pi
!l
II
wmmmm
m
/
...tijBH
■■l
Hi
IgS
Mi
.
/l
mi
mmm mmmmmmm
'
mmm
wmmmmmmmmm
I - i fr "l
■ >
m
is
mmm.
wmmm
m
:-s
mm
I 1 |
m
■
a-.
Wmmmzw-x
m
mm
mm
M's.
A
. WWPM
MB
:0x
'
ill
.
vzm
mm
"• ¥: 7/ -v. jgggg |
■Hi
:
mmm».
■
:
■ :X
«
%33?2
iiiiiii
a
>Wi
li
B
M
mm
m
■
j Because Built to Minimise
Generated Heat—the Main
Cause of Tyre Destruction.
Laboratory and working tests prove conclusively
that the terrific heat generated by road friction
is the main cause of tyre destruction. And
Barnet Glass engineers have perfected a Truck
Tyre in which that tendency to heat is minimised
—is reduced by a scientific balance between the
stretch of rubber and cords. These vital cords of I
long staple cotton of high tensile strength, are I
effectively insulated by a coating of specially
compounded heat-resisting rubber. And this,
with a deep-cut, slow wearing tread which grips
and holds , and heavily buttressed walls that give
stability . . enables truck owners to reduce over-
heads and bus owners to keep running to schedule. !
HEAT RESISTING - ARMOURED WALLS - CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS
'
TUBES
MT5Ba-35.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN-PRODUCING COMPANIES IN MALAYA
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 31st December, 1935.
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd., and Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd., dredges are not operating.
NOTE.—AII figures are expressed in English sterling, and the Net Profit includes the profit derived from Buffer
Pool Stock.
“ Invincible”
INVINCIBLE
MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES.
Petrol—Kerosene— Diesel,
18 Sizes: 3 to 100 h-P-
Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,
53 N. George St. Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 56,184 8 p.c. = 49,867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „ „ 49.867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „„ 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50,488 8 „„ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „ „ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „ „ 49,867 58,267
1930.. 39,501 6i „ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 „„ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 .. 57,667
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 57,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner reserves, £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. =.10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 6J „ „ 11,050 54,980
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. •.. 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 -1- 53,034
When the Harbor Bridge wiped out what
had been the co.’s chief source of revenue
for over 60 years, £453,332 of capital
was returned, reducing the figure to
£170,000 in ss. shares; fares had been
raised, fixed assets vigorously written
down and liquids accumulated for the
purpose. Since then, the backbone of
the business has been the Mosman, Cre-
morne, Athol, Neutral Bay, Balmain and
Lane Cove services and the Land and
Harbor Transport Co., which took over
the parent’s land properties, or most' of
them, in 1919. Only two points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.,
though, visibly, reserves were tapped for
£10,683 to meet distributions for the
two years to the end of 1934.
The management has turned its atten-
tion to the reduction of costs, mainly
by introduction of new types of boats,
and by conversion of some of the old
steam craft to Diesel power. The water-
buses on the Lane Cove-Hunter’s Hill
service were a failure, and have been re-
placed by Diesel-driven craft, but the
ne,w locally-constructed Drake class of
Diesel ferry is reported to be doing good
work where larger steamers were for-
merly employed.
Partly because of this and partly
because of increased tourist and other
traffic, following the introduction of new
runs and the improvement in conditions
generally, last year’s net earnings
sprang £5250, reaching 6.5 p.c. on capi-
tal. That was after allowing an unspeci-
fied amount for depreciation, but leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained re-
duction of £1204 in reserves. Still, half
a point was added to the div., making it
7 p.c.
On ship property £7864 more was
spent than was written off:
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £623,332 £170,000 £170,000 £170,000
Liabilities .. 65,520 41,473 28,788 46,041
Landed property 42,820 28,434 27,294 26,781
Ship property 212,413 -29,921 55,612 63,476
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 26,278 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 6,696 4,787 6,370 7,019
Fuel, stores, etc. 13,725 7,942 7,736 7,531
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 24,018 30,909 33,291 43,127
Public securities,
etc 330,528 62,251 19,158 16,951
Cash .. .. 81,572 2,271 2,261 2,139
To meet the outlay and carry an extra
£9836 of debtors’ balances, £17,253 was
added to the amount coming to trade
creditors. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£16,176) was £9746.
The Transport Co.’s net earnings are not
disclosed, but they improved, and con-
tributed substantially to the parent’s
profits. The pup’s freeholds, which in-
clude the Clifton Gardens Hotel and
Royal Guesthouse, Neutral Bay, figure at
£79,179 ; ship property, etc., £62,296 ;
stocks, debtors and cash, £28,969. There
was £5184 coming to sundry creditors
and £38,315 to the parent on loan and
plant account.
To finance the purchase of more fer-
ries, the parent will presently issue
170,000 new ss. shares,' one for four, at
par. When all the money is in, paid
capital will be £212,500, on which 7 p.c.
will call for £14,875, or £3724 more than
the profit claimed last year.
The market prices the scrip at 11s. 9d.,
equal to approximately 10s. sd. after
exercising the rights. At 10s. sd. the
return is 3.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on
his money counts on a 10 p.c. div.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925 .. 32,991 20 p.c. = 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 .. 28,617 20 „ „ 29,201 81,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 „ „ 89,201 24,479
1928 .. 18,546 134 „ „ 19,467 .. 23,568
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. Deficit.
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
1930 .. 35,570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 3,063 109,629
1932 .. 3,902 Nil 3,902 105,727
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. ,23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
This co. has been in the squatting busi-
ness in the s.-w. of Queensland and else-
where for over half a century. Divs.
averaged 4| p.c. for the 23 years to the
close of accounts in 1923, when half the
capital was jettisoned (reducing it to
£146,002) to cover amortisation of leases.
Then a run of good seasons and high
prices brought some fat returns. Next,
shareholders put up another £275,000 to
finance the buying of Quantambone,
near Brewarrina (N.S.W.). Immediately
drought gripped this and the co.’s other
properties, and a loss of £101,680 showed
up in ’29, followed by another of £35,570
in ’3O, and the board went to its bankers
and others for £151,000-odd to save the
breeding ewes, rams and young wethers.
Meanwhile the bottom fell out of prices,
and, except for the last couple of years,
it has been difficult to squeeze much
profit out of the business.
Though the co.’s last clip was 117 bales
lighter, it brought in an extra £16,061,
the average per bale being £4 ss. lid.
better:
, Sheep
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1928.. 82,567 176,747 1887 £43,856 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 15/4/10
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25.300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3826 44,081 11/10/4
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
1933.. 173,260 137,904 3820- 74,274 19/8/10
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 148,691 4086 70,456 17/4/7
Gross earnings from all sources
(£83,249) were up £5474. The net result,
which benefited by £3Bl of the increase,
was 9.9 p.c. on capital. But the over-
draft called for reduction, so only Is.
per share, the first thing of its kind since
’2B, was distributed. The £16,113 that
remained reduced the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books
to £65,535.
There was marked improvement in the
finances:
1924. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £146,002 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 912 151,689 87,268 7,332
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 78,743 192,522 137,337 125,141
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 45,230 87,150 90,117 75,599
Wool unsold.. 810 1,900 21,046 1,317
Cash, etc. .. 109,789 2,OSS 2,957 3,189
On properties and plant £12,196 more
was written off than was spent. There
was a net reduction of £14,518 in the
book value of livestock (owing to a dry
spell, the year closed with 35,778 fewer
sheep on the runs than when it opened),
and of £19,728 in unsold wool. The
board was thus able to lop £78,672 off
the overdraft, reducing it to £6233. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£72,773, including livestock) was
£45,911.
As for the current term, January rains
have grassed the runs for some months
ahead, and wool prices have further
strengthened. The market therefore prices
the 305.-paid shares at 20s. as against
15s. 6d. a year ago. The return at 20s.
is 4.9 p.c. on a 3.3 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is 21s. lid.
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1925.. 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 144 38,521
Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
Dec., 1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 .. 54.783
Dec., 1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 54,873
Dec., 1928.. 59,254 8 „ ~ 59,254 54,873
Dec., 1929.. 59,191 8 „ ~59,254 54,810
Dec., 1930.. 41,707 7 „ ~51,847 44,670
Dec., 1931.. 48,496 „ ~ 48,144 352 45,022
Dec., 1932.. 44,782 6 „ ~ 44,440 342 45,364
Dec., 1933.. 44,928 6 „ ~44,440 488 45,802
Dec., 1934.. 44,483 6 „ ~44,440 43 45,895
Dec., 1935.. 44,604 6 „ ~ 44,440 164 46,059
The N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity Act
of 1932 placed the industry under con-
trol of a commission—one member repre-
sents the Government, another the cos.
and a third the employees. The price of
gas to the consumer is fixed at a figure
which will allow the cos. to pay a 6 p.c.
div., after meeting exes., including in-
terest on borrowed funds, and setting
aside not more than 3 p.c. (3} p.c. under
the old Act) of capital outlay on build-
ings and plant for special purposes and
depreciation. During the last few years
of cheap money, a more or less assured
6 p.c. has been a very attractive return.
Hence the price of this co.’s pound
shares rose from 18s. at the end of 1931,
when the dramatic Mr. Lang obscured
the outlook, to 275. 4d. two years later;
there has since been a slight harden-
ing of interest rates, and the price has
dropped to 265. 6d., at which figure the
return is 4.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Given a continuance of sound manage-
ment, and subject to any further political
interference, the future of the scrip in
the market will be governed by the trend
of interest rates.
To further encourage consumption of
gas, and therefore development of the
industry, all the most important pro-
ducers in N. S. Wales, Vic., S. Aus. and
Tas. formed the National Gas Associa-
tion last year. With its help and a vigor-
ous sales offensive, this North Shore co.
increased its sales of gas appliances by
nearly 100 p.c. The quantity of gas sold
(869.2 million cubic feet) increased by
38.3 p.c. as against 20.6 p.c. in the pre-
vious year. Returns therefrom were
£9357 better, and residuals, etc., turned in
an extra £1552:
Per 1000 Per 1000
Revenue: — 1934. e.f. 1935. c.f.
Gas sales ..£236,919 5/8 £246,278 5/8
Residuals, etc. 48,981 1/2 50.533 1/lf
Exes.:—
Manufacture .. 113,046 2/84 125,095 2/104
Distribution .. 62,203 1/51 72,288 1/71
Special purposes 22.100 -/6i 13,100 -/3i
Other charges 43,978 1/04 41,724 -/10J
The growth of £12,059 (2d. per 1000 c.f.)
in manufacturing charges was due
mainly to a bigger outlay on repairs and
maintenance (£33,907, up £7887). The
increase of £10,085 in the cost of distribu-
tion was more than offset by savings of
£11,254 in special purposes and other
charges. There was thus little change in
the net result, which was £164 more than
the div. called for.
The new vertical retorts and additional
coal- and coke-handling plant at Oyster
Cove are scheduled to be in operation
early in June next. The saving in costs is
expected to more than cover the charge
on the extra capital involved.
When the books closed, the share capi-
tal (£740,675) and various reserves
(£79,541) were supplemented by £340,000
of 4| p.c. debentures, £143,733 of tem-
porary loans and £44,710 coming to
sundry creditors. Fixed assets figured at
£1,290,442, and more or less liquids
totalled £58,217.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Nominal
Dee., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserve*
£ £ £ £
1925.. 15,590 10 p.c. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 1 , .
r 926. . 17,241 121 p.c. = 12.100 5141 J
1927.. 15,722 12| „ „ 12,500 3222 6.435
1928.. 25,748 121 „ „ 16,146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 12jj „ „ 27,083 7153 23,190
Loss.
1930.. 2,982 2 „ „ 5,208 15,000
Wrilien off investments, £7500.. 7,600
Profit.
1931.. 6,250 2\ p.c. = 6,250 7,500
1932.. 7,500 2| „ „ 6,250 1250 8,750
Written off investments, £1250.. 7,500
1933.. 17,165 6 p.c. = 15,165 2000 9,500
1934.. 18,505 6 „ ~16,505 2000 11,500
1935.. 12,023 2i „ „ 7,136 4887 16,387
Most of the co.’s funds are invested in
subsidiaries in the bread- and biscuit-
making and flour-milling businesses, and
the curtain remains drawn over their
figures. For the five years to the close
of accounts in 1929 shareholders put
up an extra £170,000 ; and a run of 12£
p.c. divs. was paid from profits averag-
ing 17.8 p.c. on capital. Then slump
and a price war resulted in the collapse
of earnings, and the div. dropped to 2
p.c. in 1930. At the end of 1932 those
in the trade agreed to bury the hatchet,
and the co. extended its activities by
formation of a new subsidiary, Southern
Cross Flour Mills, and the purchase of
Hunter’s old-established baking business
at North Sydney. Earnings responded,
and 6 p.c. was distributed in ’33 and ’34.
The trouble during the last term was
in the bread section of the business;
the co.’s Pacific Island interests —it owns
the shares, or all but a handful of them,
in Hardman Bros., Ltd.—continued to
expand. For most of the year bread was
sold without profit, or at a loss, because
the State Government fixed a maximum
price for the loaf, thus preventing the
Federal flour tax (£2 12s. 6d. per ton)
from being passed on. After the injus-
tice was pointed out by a royal commis-
sion the Government price-fixing, always
a dangerous experiment, ceased. Toward
the end of October the drift in the indus-
try was arrested by introduction of a
trade stabilisation scheme ; but the high
price of flour prevented reasonable pro-
fits being earned. The net result of the
year’s trading was £6482 lighter at a
shade over 4 p.c. on capital, and the
div. dropped to 2{ p.c., distributed half-
way through the term.
The £19,489 of fresh capital gathered
during the year, together with an extra
£4511 from sundry creditors (£22,851),
was used mostly to reduce the overdraft
(now £19,992) by £9911 and to add
£6804 net to the book value of proper-
ties and investments:
1925. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital . . £BB,OOO £250,000 £280,511 £300,000
Liabilities .. 1,032 16,804 48,243 42,843
Land, buildings,
i n v estments,
etc 84,095 251,783 310,410 317,214
Plant, etc. .. 1,534 9,134 24,086 22,990
Stocks .. . . 2,217 6,896 9,888 11,370
Book debts . . 7,210 11,033 14,395 13,498
Cash, etc. .. 7,311 6,173 1,575 799
When the books closed, liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids, including
stocks, by £17,176, an improvement of
£5209 over the twelvemonth.
The stabilisation scheme already re-
ferred to and the Federal Government’s
promise to remove the flour tax on Feb.
24 augur well for a better showing
at next balance. The market, mindful
of the turbulent history of the trade,
prices the fully-paid pound shares at 17s.
3d. At that figure the return would be
5.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
book value of the net asset cover is 21s.
Id., which includes whatever goodwill
there may be in the subsidiaries.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 19,348 7 p.c. = 19,303 45 64,633
1926.. 24,254 8 „ „ 22,567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „ „ 8,463 1,131 67,40 l
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,06-
1929.. 10,134 3 „ „ 8,463 1,671 69,<33
1930.. 15,459 5} „ „ 15,515 —69,67 j
1931.. 7,910 3 „ „ 8,463 69,1-4
1932.. 4,052 2} „ „ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 24 „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 ~,,14,195 1,467 67,464
1935.. 16,141 5 ~ „ 14,195 1,946 69,410
Though this co. has been distributing
milk in Sydney and its suburbs for over
60 years, if has never skimmed very


R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
Abridged Prospectus of
CASH ORDERS 8 GENERAL FINANCE
LIMITED
(Registered in N.S.W. under the provisions of Act 1899 on 14th February, 1936.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - £250,000
(Divided into 250,000 shares of £1 each, of which 5000 are Deferred Shares.)
FIRST DIRECTORS:
Major-General Henry Gordon Bennett, C. 8., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., V.D., F.C.A.A., F. 1.1.5., Public Accountant,
12 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Neville Harradine Francis, A.R.A. (N.Z.), L.1.C.A.,
Company Director, 14 Prince Albert St., Mosman, N.S.W.
Alwin Stevens Nicholas, Company Director,
“Montague,” 7 Alfred Square, St. Kilda, Victoria.
OBJECTS.
The objects for which the Company is incorporated
are fully set out in its Memorandum and Articles of
Association and include (inter alia)
The carrying on of the business of a Cash Order
and Finance Company, the giving of credit to
approved persons, firms and companies in the form
of Cash Orders or otherwise, negotiable at whole-
sale or retail houses and shops under arrangement
with the Company in the State of N.S.W. and/or
any other State in the Commonwealth.
SHARE ISSUE.
The following shares are now offered for subscription
at par payable as to the first 10/- per share: 2/- on
application, 2/- on allotment and six calls of 1/- at
intervals of one month, or on such other terms as may
be approved by the Directors. The balance of 10/- per
share can be called as required at the rate of one shilling
(1/-) per share at intervals of not less than one month.
40,000 6J p.c. Cumulative Preference Shares of
£1 each, participating to 8 p.c £40,000
These shares are 6* P.c. cumulative
calculated on the amounts per share paid
up from time to time and increasing to
a maximum of 8 p.c. in any one year by
of 1 p.c. for every 1 p.c. by which
the dividend on ordinary shares exceeds
10 p.c. in that year.
60,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £60,000
These' shares confer the right to a divi-
dend of 6£ p.c. before the Deferred
Shares participate; the holders of Deferred
Shares then receive a similar amount; the
balance of divisible profit being distri-
buted (after providing for the participat-
ing rights of Preference Shareholders)
two-thirds to Ordinary Shareholders and
one-third to Deferred Shareholders.
£lOO,OOO
REVIEW AND PROSPECTS.
The following certificate sets out the nett profits
earned over the last three years by the principal Cash
Order Companies with shares listed on the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
17th February, 1936.
The Directors,
Cash Orders & General Finance, Ltd.,
9 Martin Place, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —From the published reports and accounts
issued by the three major Cash Order Companies (Aus-
tralian Cash Orders Limited, Cash Orders (Amalga-
mated) Limited, and Direct Cash Orders Limited) with
shares listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange, I have
ascertained that the average rate per annum of Nett Profit
earned by those Companies for their relative income years
was as follows:
1932- . . . . I 1.48 p.c.
1933- .. .. 18.08 „
1934- .. .. 19.26 „
after providing for all expenditure, including income
AUDITORS:
E. S. Wolfenden, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Anderson, Hodgson & Lithgow, Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), Collins House, Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
REGISTERED OFFICE.
9 Martin Place, Sydney.
taxes. These rates have been based upon the capital
actually issued for cash in each case, i.e., omitting capital
which was issued as the result of writing up assets.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) E. S. WOLFENDEN.
Chartered Accountant (Aust.) and Consulting Actuary.
The steady increase of profits earned by these Cash
Order Companies indicates that the public is to-day more
consistently appreciating and availing itself of the many
advantages of buying under the “Cash Order” system.
All Cash Order Company shares listed on the Sydney
Stock Exchange are quoted at premiums.
Mr. A. S. Nicholas, a Director of this Company, has
been managing a most successful Melbourne Cash Order
Company since its inception in 1926, and he is severing
his connection with that Company to become associated
with this Company as a Director and in a managerial
capacity. The Directors believe that there are only two
Victorian Cash Order Companies transacting larger busi-
ness than that being transacted by the Company managed
by Mr. A. S. Nicholas s'nce 1926. A foundation member
and a member of the Committee of the Victorian Cash
Order Association since it was formed in 1927, he was
Vice-president in 1930, Senior Vice-president in 1931 and
President in 1 932. Mr. A. S. Nicholas has a complete
and thorough knowledge of the Cash Order business and
has proved himself a most successful manager, producing
profits for his Company every year without exception
since its formation in 1926. He brings with him to this
Company a vast amount of information, etc., which,
combined with his association over almost ten years with
a clientele numbering many thousands, should be extremely
valuable to this Company.
Further arrangements have been made for Executive
Officers (including a Chief Credit Inspector) and for other
staff, competent and thoroughly experienced in the Cash
Order business, t'o be available immediately.
Intending shareholders will appreciate the advantages
which must accrue to this Company as a result of the
complete nature of t'he arrangements made.
The Company is in every way ready to commence
operations immediately sufficient capital is subscribed.
ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROFITS.
It is estimated that on a paid share capital of
£ 100,000 the annual nett profit, after providing for
Federal and State Income Taxes, should be £26,717. This
is based on results actually secured by one of the largest
Victorian Cash Order Companies.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES, ETC.
Preliminary expenses, including brokerage, will be
borne by the Company. No cash is payable nor will any
free shares be issued to the Promoter for its services in
promoting this Company, but the Deferred Shares are
reserved for purchase by the Promoter at 20/- per share
in cash.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF
ASSOCIATION.
These may be inspected at the Registered Office of
the Company.
Fill in the form below and mail it promptly.
SHARE APPLICATION FORM,
The Directors,
Cash Orders and General Finance Limited,
9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— „ *Preference
I hereby apply for *Ordinary Shares in the capital of the abovenamed Company upon the
terms of the Company’s prospectus dated 17th February, 1936, and I hereby agree to accept the same or such smaller number
of shares as may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as the holder of such shares.
I enclose herewith £ being two shillings (2/-) per share due on application for such shares. I agree to pay
two shillings (2/-) per share on allotment and calls of one shilling (1/-) per share at intervals of one month thereafter, until
an amount of ten shillings (10/-) per share has been paid, and the balance, as and when required, in calls not exceeding one
shilling (1/-) P er share at intervals of not less than one month, and I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of
Association.
Dated this .' day of 193..
Name in Full
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
Address in full
Profession or Occupation
Signature
(♦Delete words not applicable.)
much cream from the business, which
now includes bread, butter, ice-cream
and cold storage as well. The richest
patch was the 10 years to the close of
accounts in 1920. During this period
divs. averaged 10| p.c.; for the 15 years
to the close of last accounts, the average
was 5.3 p.c. The business kept on grow-
ing, but competition and mounting costs
kept margins so narrow that the co. got
no benefit from its larger trading.
However, the distribution and price of
milk are now “controlled” ; some of the
obsolete plant has been recently replaced
by modern equipment, to the benefit of
costs, and the £lOO,OOO of old 7 p.c. first-
mortgage debentures were renewed for
five years at 5 p.c. in 1934, when net earn-
ings nearly doubled, and the div. was lifted
from 2\ p.c. to 5 p.c. For the last term
the net result was £479 better at 5.6 p.c.
on capital, and the 5 p.c. div. was re-
peated. It is doubtful whether anything
better need be looked for at the moment,
notwithstanding that erection of a new
boiler-room and installation of new re-
frigerating plant, which will be out of
the contractor’s hands in a few weeks,
caused some dislocation. The various de-
partments are becoming more stabilised,
and prospects are “reasonably sound,”
the board says.
On the market the fully-paid pound
shares fetch 18s. Bd. as against 17s. a
year ago and 11s. 12 months before that.
The return at 18s. Bd. is 5.3 p.c. on a 5
p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is 245. lid., mainly in fixed assets, worth
what they can earn.
The new refrigerating equipment, etc.,
is reflected in a growth of £26,745 in the
plant item:
1921. 1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £209,359 £282,091 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 76,334 65,186 31,777 46,392
Property ] f 228,209 229,239 229,212
Plant )• 243,975 -| 121,743 125,155 151,900
Rolling stock J [. 44,488 33,555 35,847
Stocks .. 27,664 43,743 26,523 24,654
Cash and
investments 34,129 16,362 26,962 10,957
Book debts . . 50,207 76,982 61,964 60,292
To finance the outlay, the co. went out-
side for an extra £14,615, and drew upon
cash and investments for £16,005 net.
The contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£49,511, including stocks) was
£34,161.
Australian Drug (Investments), Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1925.. 10,269 10 p.c. = 12,500 22,350
Profit on sale of assets, £5875.. 28,225
Premiums on new shares, £2278 30,503
1926.. 14,688 10 p.c. = 13,308 1380 31,883
Pref. Ord.
Ti p.c. 10 p.c.
1927.. 17,254 3531 13,723 31,883
1928.. 21,247 4708 13,722 2817 34,700
Premiums on new shares, £5OOO 39,700
1929.. 19,681 4708 14,973 39,700
1930.. 12,708 4708 Nil 8000 47,700
Unexplained addition reserves, £3160 50,860
1931.. 4,181 Nil Nil 4181 55,041
1932.. 2.423 Nil Nil 2423 57,464
From tax reserves. £630 . . 58,094
1933.. 3,719 Nil Nil 3719 61,813
Loss on sale of property, £26,550.. 35,263
Loss.
1934.. 2,472 Nil Nil 32,791
Profit sale shares, £1648 .. .. 34,439
Profit.
1935.. 4,200 19,568* Nil 19,071
*Five years to June 30, 1935.
There is £225,000 of capital to feed in
62,775 7\' p.c. cum. prefs. (less 22\ p.c.
statutory cut) and 162,225 ords. After
a five-year wait, the prefs.’ slate has
been cleaned, and prospects of the ords.
getting into the picture again are brighter
than at any time since the big economic
upheaval began about half a dozen years
ago.
It used to be the Australian Drug Co.,
Sydney, a steady 10-percenter for 17
years to the close of accounts in 1929.
In August, 1930, it merged its main trad-
ing interests with 11 other drug concerns
in one big holding co., Drug Houses of
Australia, for £169,026 in scrip, and the
name was changed to the present title.
Other assets consisted of three freeholds
and a handful of book debts, etc. The
properties comprised Australia House,
Carrington-street (built, with plenty of
letting space, when prices were at their
top), the York-street factory and the
Charles-street garage, the lot subject to
an overdraft of £160,000. Slump upset
calculations, the properties proved to be
a drag, divs. from Drug Houses have
been moderate, and interest on the debt
pressed heavily upon the attenuated
earnings.
The York-street premises were sold a
couple of years ago for £21,000 cash,
the loss on the deal being £26,550. The
trading loss of £2472 in ’34 was due to
a drop of £BO6B in revenue, following
termination of the D.H.A. leases on June
30, 1933. During the last term 39,400
Drug Houses shares were sold at a profit
of £1648. Rents (£9503) were only £258
better, but dividend receipts (£5509) were
up £2897, making the spring in total
revenue (£15,012) £3155. Exes. (£10,812)
were £3517 lighter (owing mainly to re-
duction of the overdraft), leaving a profit
of £4200, or £551 more than a full year’s
pref. div. now calls for. To hand the
prefs. £19,568 (five years’ divs. to June
30, 1935), reserves were tapped for
£15,368, reducing them to £19,071 in the
books.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1953. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Liabilities .. .. 160,361 141,703 112.462
Freehold.. .. ' .. 276,467 229,365 229,365
Investments . . . . 169,026 169,026 129 626
Book debts, etc. . . 1,681 1,103 l’l9l
The money received from the sale of
shares (£41,048), together with the year’s
profit, was used to further reduce the
overdraft (£109,523, down £28,744) and
meet the payment to the prefs. It is
doubtful whether freeholds, which appear
at cost, are worth their book value ; but
the 129,626 D.H.A. shares, which figure
at par (20s. each), are worth 30s. 7d. in
the market.
Drug Houses, which paid 5 p.c. last
year as against 3} p.c. for the previous
one, is expected to send along more dur-
ing the current term. After being offered
at auction, without attracting a bid, the
garage has been leased for three years
from Sept. last. Also, some of the vacant
space in Australia House has been let to
o Continued on next page.)


A SURE FRIEND IN
Poor little man! He
MISSES MOTHER
POOR little man! His father is dead
and left not a penn’orth of assurance.
His mother goes out to work each
day, and has to leave him in a day nursery.
Poor little man!
How different it might have been! If the young
husband had become a member of the A.M.P. on
his marriage, and had invested about four shillings
(4/-) a week in an A.M.P. whole-life Policy, his
widow would have received £5OO on his death.
Not a fortune, to be sure, but a “very present help
in time of trouble.”
What about it, young husband and young wife? Don’t
let this tragedy happen to you! Send for an A.M.P.
adviser straight away, and secure ADEQUATE assur-
ance. Write to-day. The A.M.P. is the largest mutual
life office in the Empire, with assets of £100,000,000.
It is as strong as the Nation. Let it be your protection.
Write to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
m
m
.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A.
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
N.Z. FORESTRY BONDS AND
VIC. INVESTORS’ GUIDE
SEE PAGE 39.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, B.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * #
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
i " * * *
AUSTRALASIAN tirnberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. 8 Bond Street, Sydnev.— Advt.
$ $ * *
META us.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius Houses
Sydney.— Advt.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR''
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
iO-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.TV.
the State Government Pensions Depart-
ment and other tenants, though over
£lOOO had first to be spent in alterations.
The market prices the prefs. at 21s.
6d., at which figure the return is 5.3 p.c.
on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis. The ords. at 16s.
3d. (11s. a year ago) would return 4.9
p.c. on a 4 p.c. distribution. To pay the
pref. div. plus 4 p.c. to the ords. would
call for £10,738, or £6538 more than was
netted last year. The book value of the
net tangible cover is £3 16s. 9d. prefs.
and 225. ords.
Cash Orders and General Finance, Ltd.
This new cash order and general
finance co. has been registered in Sydney
with a nominal capital of £250,000 in
£1 shares, of which 5000 are deferred
shares. Of the balance, 40,000 6j p.c.
cumulative participating prefs. and
60,000 ords. are offered. The prefs.,
which have priority as to capital and
dividend, are entitled to a maximum of
8 p.c., advancing by a half of 1 p.c. for
every 1 p.c. by which the ord. div. ex-
ceeds 10 p.c.; that is to say, the prefs.
will be entitled to 8 p.c. when the ords.
receive 13 p.c. The deferreds, which
will be subscribed by the promoters
(Benson, Sterling and Co.), rank for divs.
after the ords. have received p.c. Out
of any remaining profit, * the deferreds
are first entitled to 6| p.c. on their capi-
tal. After providing for participating
pref. rights, any balance belongs two-
thirds to the ords. and one-third to the
deferreds.
There is no goodwill or promoters’
consideration in cash or shares. The in-
tention is to call the shares, all of which
will be paid for in cash, to 10s. each ;
the other 10s. can be called as and when
required. Preliminary exes, are not ex-
pected to exceed £5OO. In addition, the
co. will pay brokerage at the rate of
10 p.c.
As for voting power, the ords. have
one vote per share. In the event of a
wind-up or alteration of pref. rights,
or if the pref. div. falls more than three
months into arrears, the prefs. are also
entitled to one vote per share. The
deferreds are to have 35 votes per share,
provided that, while less than a combined
total of 245,000 preference and ordinary
shares have been issued, the voting rights
of the deferreds shall not exceed 75 p.c.
of the issued preference plus ordinary
shares. The deferreds thus, control the
business. On the basis of the present
issue, they would be entitled to 75,000
votes. The co. is not empowered by its
articles to issue more than 5000 de-
ferred shares.
With £lOO,OOO of capital employed,
profits are estimated at £26,717 p.a. The
figures are based on the experience of a
Victorian cash order co., and include
provision for bad debts, etc. (£4880), and
taxation (£7211). The £26,717 would be
sufficient to pay 8 p.c. on £40,000 of
pref. money, and then show 27.9 p.c. on
£60,000 of ord. and 135 p.c. on £5OOO
of deferred capital.
During the last couple of years there
has been a marked revival in the demand
for cash orders and other forms of credit
based on the pay-as-you-earn principle,
and attractive returns have been won by
established cos. In this class of business
profit-earning largely depends upon
the constant employment of funds and
the question of bad debts, which in turn
are partly governed by competition, the
selection of risks and economic condi-
tions generally.
On the board are Major-General H.
G. Bennett, N. H. Francis and A. S.
Nicholas. Management will be in the
hands of Mr. Nicholas, who has suc-
cessfully managed a large cash-order
business in Melbourne since 1926, and
who was president of the Victorian Cash
Order Association.
Placer Development reports that the
hull of Pato’s No. 3 dredge, now being
built in Florida (U.S.A.), will be towed
up the Magdelena River, Columbia, S.
America, to the Pato property, where
equipment will be added. The machine
is expected to begin digging about the
end of this year, instead of the middle
of 1937, as originally anticipated. For
the five months to the end of January,
the Asnazu Co., also in Colombia,
treated 633,000 c.y. for a recovery of 40
cents a yard, equal to approximately 2s.
a yard in Australian currency. Placer
holds a 50 p.c. interest in Pato and a
40 p.c. interest in Asnazu.
* * * *
Pacific Gold, the Melbourne-controlled
prospecting concern which turned down
its 100-acre option in the Naitasiri dis-
trict, about 30 miles north of Suva (Fiji),
as well as several Australian properties
that it looked at, has a number of other
strings to its bow. In Fiji, drilling began
on Jan. 20 on prospecting license No.
266, which adjoins the Cardigan lease to
the south. Here enough work has not
yet been done to form a worth-while
idea as to the extent and value of the
formations. The same remarks apply
to the Laka Laka option near by. Later
it is intended to transfer the drilling
equipment to an area which adjoins the
Emperor on the north ; arrangements are
being made to-test ground at Wainevisi,
on the island of Viti Levu, and a pros-
pecting party is at work on the island
of Mutuka, one of the smaller of the
Fijian group. In addition the co. has a
one-eighth interest in New Caledonia
Prospecting Pty., which sent R. A.
Clinton to examine auriferous areas in
New Caledonia (his report has not yet
been received), and a one-tenth interest
in Oceanic Gold Exploration, which re-
cently dispatched a party to examine a
reported discovery of alluvial gold “on
one of the Pacific islands.”
Bulolo Gold Deposits, formed in Syd-
ney in Aug., 1932, to take over some 529
acres of dredging and sluicing ground on
the Wau and Bulolo rivers, New Guinea,
netted £1085 for the year to June 30 last;
that includes £600 of monthly option
payments from Placer. The 1037oz. of
gold won realised £5416. Since the close
of accounts 210 acres, which cost the co.
£2000, have been sold to Placer for
£10,000. That' leaves 319 acres, the value
of which has yet to be proved. The co.
is out of debt, and its properties are un-
encumbered. The water race to the junc-
tion of Koranga Creek and the Bulolo
River is about finished; it will enable
new and more ground to be sluiced. The
market estimates the risks by pricing the
2s.-paid shares (there are 417,842 of
them) at lOd. each.
# * * *
Linden (W.A.) Gold and Morobe Allu-
vials, two Melbourne-controlled concerns
with interlocking directorates, have
jointly taken a working license over
about 2,000,000 tons of old slimes and
sands at Charters Towers (Q.), together
with an option over another 1,000,000
tons of dump materials in the same
locality. The pair have also become
jointly interested in an option over a
silver-lead-gold proposition at Mt.
Werong, near Yerranderie (N.S.W.).
Work done in this area in the past shows
that the ore, though rich, has been con-
fined to irregular lenses separated by
blank zones.
* * * *
Lake Austin-Eureka (W.A.) is bucked
by a report that it may prove a profitable
venture. Something is also said about
excellent chances for successful prospect-
ing in the co.’s closed-down mine and
the possibility of locating “extraordinary
enrichments” which would help to
sweeten the larger low-grade ore deposits
in the property. Several recommenda-
tions regarding development are made, in-
cluding one that the State Government be
buttonholed for a loan of £300 on a
£-for-£ basis to do some boring. Some
local mining men stubbornly hold the
opinion that Lake Austin-Eureka is a
fossickers’ rather than a co. mine.
* * * *
Shareholders of Timoni, which was
floated in April, 1934, to work a mine
at Mt. Ida (W.A.), have decided to in-
crease the capital from £37,500 to £52,500
by raising the nominal value of the
150,000 shares, of which 135,000 are
issued, from 5s. to 7s. To safeguard
assets the co. has been placed in tem-
porary liquidation. If sufficient capital
is obtained, the liquidation will be set
aside to enable the co. to resume opera-
tions. Calls, it was stated, would not
exceed 6d. a share per month ; if the co.
does not carry on, calls will be refunded.
A treatment plant, prematurely erected,
and refractory ore have been the main
troubles.
* * * *
The Golden Valley Co., which put up
a costly plant before developments war-
ranted the expense, has ceased mining
at Kanowna (W.A.). Underground gear
has been salvaged, and a caretaker is
in charge.


OJU~- P.
% •
TO tH
Gi
•V 3
\ n;
r \\ \\
The recently-improved accommodation includes the re-
arranging and re-furnishing of "A" Deck and a number of
*'B" Deck Cabins and the Public Rooms have also been
considerably enlarged and tastefully re-fumished.
These improvements, combined with the low fares, excel-
lent menus, efficient service and unrestricted deck space
offer the best value in travel comfort obtainable.
FARES FROM £3B PLUS EXCHANGE
SAILING DATES AND ALL PARTICULARS
ON APPLICATION TO LOCAL AGENTS
mi
&
/
wu
<K
V/
V
\ X
rRfINCH SERVICE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Rokko”: The new implement wasn’t
satisfactory, so dad wrote a note to the
agent demanding his
presence on the farm.
The interview was
somewhat acrimonious,
and the agent departed
to take another look at
the gadget, with dad
bringing up the rear,
muttering “The cow!”
The agent’s missus,
who had come for the
drive, overheard and
took exception. “Don’t
speak of my husband
as if he were just an
animal, Mr. Brown,”
she rasped. Dad
obliged instantly. “Or-
right. The blan ky
cow!” he roared.
* * *
“N orb r i t e”: The
eternal triangle has
blasted the peace of a
Vic. midland district
farm. During the
winter months one of
Mr. Gander’s wives be-
came greatly concerned
at the slovenly condition into which Mr.
Red Poll Bull had allowed himself to
lapse, and she took upon herself the duty
of picking the mud off his lower extremi-
ties and of looking after his appear-
ance generally. Mr. Red Poll so appre-
ciated these feminine attentions that Mrs.
Gander was permitted to join him in his
daily siesta in the bottom paddock. Mr.
Gander has now given himself a divorce
a mensa et thoro.
* * * *
“Moturoa”: When Henare’s aged
grandfather died his tangi and funeral
were the largest in the history of Taupo.
A Maori brass band led the procession
to the cemetery, and the followers in-
cluded many local notables. Henare was
a proud man indeed. At the graveside
there was mild excitement when the
undertaker himself dropped/ dead, but
Henare stepped into the breach, and the
full ceremonies were carried out. After-
wards I sympathised with Henare on his
bereavement, but he treated the matter
calmly enough. The undertaker, how-
ever, came in for his full wrath. “What
he want to do that for?” he asked. “Just
when everything going orrite!” Henare
took a long swig at his pint, banged the
counter with his fist, and added: “That
beggar, he werry near cast a gloom over
te plessed proceedings!”
* * * *
“Spud”: A £5O trophy has been
offered by the Albany (Westralian)
Angling Club to the first person to catch
a tunny in local waters. Though big
specimens have been netted (a profes-
sional fisherman got a 340-pounder), one
has yet to be landed with the line.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: An unusual number of
serious illnesses, and not a few deaths,
have been reported this summer from
northern N.S.W. and Queensland as the
result of bites from insects and arthro-
pods. The chief offender has been the
red-backed spider—six cases were treated
medically in Clermont (Q.) in one week.
The funnel-web spider (common about
Sydney, too) has caused several casual-
ties and one death. Ticks have killed
two children and caused dozens of quite
serious illnesses. A wasp made a hos-
pital case of a Mackay man by getting
into his ear. A bee wrecked a motor by
stinging the driver on the ear ; the arm
of a lady passenger was broken in the
resulting capsize. The insinuating sand-
fly, tiny as it is, has filled a few hospital
beds by its well-scratched bites becoming
infected. In fact, snakebite reports are
being relegated to small type nowadays.
Spiders kill more Australian people than
snakes do —snakes and sharks together,
in fact.
* * * *
“Darral”: When cleaning up a shed
recently I knocked down the unfinished
mud nest' of a solitary wasp, the hand-
some E. abispa ephippium, and from its
shattered home I collected 53 cater-
pillars ranging from about half an inch
to an inch in length. Careful detection
proved that those grubs came from my
French bean and tomato plants. As a
consequence, I have O.K.’d the passports
of all wasps, provided they keep out of
the house.
* * * *
“Double Express”: The slump in the
ivory market has produced one curious
result. The elephant, thought to be near-
ing extinction even in central East
Africa, has increased so rapidly in
northern Uganda that a big official
scheme of destruction had to be launched
to save the native crops in the populated
part of the country. The breedirig-
“ Bill , you ARE lucky! Thought it was goin' t ’ 'it y'on the 'eadl"
grounds of the Titans have been the
empty districts of Baruli and North
Bulemezi, where the herds have increased
in a few years—and the elephant is a
slow breeder—to some 5000 animals. Of
these, 500 have been killed in the first
drive, and the herds have retreated again
to their northern fastnesses. Westralian
farmers, who have been deploring the
losses caused by the emu invasion,
should be thankful, like the cannibal in
the story, that it wasn’t something even
larger and more unpleasant,
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: When does an emu
kick? As a youngster I numbered emus
and wallabies among my cobbers, and
I was never kicked by the one or clawed
by the other—though doubtless I de-
served to be. Have seen an emu chased
by school-kids, and cornered and
dragged about by the tail, and mounted
and pushed over and tugged along by
the neck; but it showed no fight at
all—less even than an ordinary barn-
yard rooster. We never regarded the
emu as a kicker, but always took care
that he did not get a pick at our eyes.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: I asked the handsome little
fellow perched on my back verandah
what defence he could put up m reply
to “Notaden’s” accusation (B. 15/1/ 36)
that blue wrens have Mormon procliyi-
ties. He replied, more in pity than in
anger, that we humans were far too
prone to judge by appearances—were
out-and-out stickybeaks for scandal.
“My wife and I,” said he, “have reared
three families this summer. Although
we use the same materials, we take an
immense amount of trouble in shifting
and rebuilding our nest each time. While
the wife is hatching the second and third
clutch, it naturally falls to my lot to
show the elder youngsters a bit of the
world, and, since they all resemble their
mother when young, you people jump
to conclusions, based on human stan-
dards, and libel me, the model pater-
familias, as a gay philanderer, ‘squiring
a demurely dressed harem.’ ” And with
a contemptuous flick of his impertinent
tail he abruptly flew off.
* * * *
“Marlinspike”: With much respect for
the S.P.C.A.’s work in general, its
espousal of the cause of the poor sword-
fish, wantonly tortured to make an
angler’s holiday, is making it look rather
ridiculous. The actual hook, in the hard
jaw, is probably not even felt by such
powerful, fighting creatures. Their leaps
and rushes at the end of a line which a
man can break with his hands are merely
the normal reaction, to unexpected dif-
ficulty with a capture —the bait. When
brought alongside they are practically
dead of exhaustion, and do not feel the
gaff, and the statement that they are
worthless as food-fish is entirely wrong.
Black marlin sells up to Bd. a pound in
the Brisbane market, and broadbill is a
first-rate food-fish; striped marlin is
the least tasty of the three, but quite
eatable and saleable. There is a large
industry in harpooning swordfish for the
market on the U.S.A.’s Atlantic coast.
“C. 8.5.”: There is still a lot to be
learned about the life-history of sword-
fish. Small ones, down to 251 b. and less,
are not unusual on the Queensland south
coast, but apparently no marlins contain-
ing spawn have been found. Anyone
who takes a swordfish containing roe or
melt will do useful work by preserving
the organs in formalin or methylated
spirit and sending them to the nearest
museum, with full particulars of the fish
and place of capture. They arrive in
South Queensland waters from the north
about December, and apparently move
north again towards the end of March.
Their movements depend principally on
those of the shoals of smaller fish on
which they feed. These, again, migrate
in order to feed on smaller sea-creatures.
Individual swordfish, marlin or broad-
bill or sailfish, are roamers in any
tropical or subtropical deep waters. But
I do not believe that, except for acci-
dental visitors, the inner Barrier waters
will ever yield many swordfish. Their
line of migration follows the deep sea
outside the coral mass.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Before the war a horse
and a mare were taken to Stewart Island
(M.L.) for work in a tinmine there.
The concern went phut, and the pair
were left to their own resources. The
horse died shortly after, and the old
mare has since roamed the country, soli-
tary and dejected. She was recently
found by a party in a remote portion
of the island. Her condition was good,
but the hooves, having grown outward
and upward, were far from a pleasant
sight. Though her only companions for
a score of years had been the birds, she
hobbled forward, obviously pleased to
see human friends for the first time in
that tragically long period.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: Yes, when the Murray cod
is biting he will come at anything (B.
25/12/’35). But it takes a very succulent
morsel to tempt the fish if he is not
hungry. Saw one old chap fishing a few
miles north of Koondrook (Vic.) who
pinned his faith to goanna flesh. “Nothin’
like it fer cod,” he said, pointing to half
a dozen big ones tethered in the stream.
In the next 20 minutes he hauled in two
more, the larger weighing 121 b.
“Ex-Vic.”: A kerosene-tinful of rabbit
carcasses boiled to a pulp makes the
best “burley” for Murray cod. Hung
over the stern of the punt in a loose-
woven bag, it requires only an occa-
sional shake to send a cloud of tasty
white particles down the sluggish cur-
rent. Follow this up to its source, and
no Waltonian disciple need go short of
a feed.
* * * *
“Whangamomona”: Outsizes in fresh-
water eels? One taken from a Maon-
land creek recently weighed 301 b., was
sft. long and nearly 2ft. in girth. Any
Aboliar heard of one coming within
coo-ee of that?
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: A relief gang from an
N.Q. town found themselves 20 miles
away from home with only one shovel
on the job. After some hard thinking,
the ganger decided that it was hardly
worth while sending the truck back for
more tools, so the honest follows used
the shovel chain fashion, each turning
over a few shovelfuls and then passing
the implement on to the next in line.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: For some time a
Sydney conference has been drawing up
a list of standard names
for our fish. As it is,
every State has its own
labels. If a Victorian
went into a Sydney
shop and asked for
some luderic, da boss
would be unaware that
the poor cove wanted
blackfish. But the sages
are liable to err them-
selves. In the list of
names the “black
bream” of the Murray
system is renamed
“silver bream.” The
fish is a perch, cousin
of the Murray cod and
yellowbelly, the latter
being given its proper
name, “golden perch.”
The sea jewfish remains
in the community of
Israel, but the fresh-
water jewey takes his
proper monniker of
“dew” fish, so called
from 'his dews or
whiskers. Leather-
jackets will become “jackets,” the former
being too suggestive of toughness. There
are dozens of other changes, not a darned
one of which will be employed by the
people who buy fish. They will just use
the old labels.
“Fishist”: Those Sydney experts who
have renamed the fresh-water jewfish a
“dewfish” were anticipated some years
ago by a Sydney restaurateur, who
invariably put “Dhufish” on his menu.
One day I asked the reason. “We have
a number of Jewish gentlemen among
our customers,” he explained, “and we
changed the name for fear of hurting
their feelings.”
* * * *
“El Jahar”: Tell “Sa Tiko” (B.
22/1 / ’36) I’ll claim the annual sub. to
The Bully. The place was the Ararat-
Avoca road (Vic.); time, hot summer
afternoon; victim, one of a pair of
maggies which left its rise from the
centre of the road just a fraction too
late. It’s happened to me once only,
and I’m a regular road-user. “Sa
Tiko” slips badly on his peewit. Only
the too-thirsty motorist could mistake
the mottled peewit or mudlark for
maggie’s white and sable. Curiously, a
loco.-driver told me that during summer
he has run down maggie in squads.
“Dial-sight”: In my experience the
magpie leads the feathered tribe in pedes-
trian stupidity. For some inane reason he
forsakes the paddocks for the roads—
possibly thinking there is more chance
of a stray worm there. I blow the horn
to give him a chance, but he always
blunders into the radiator.
THAT COW.
No farmer needs to dwell alone;
The etiquette of getting known
Is nowhere more informal.
To saddle up and ride across
And ask politely for the boss
Seems neighborly and normal,
Especially when you tell them how
You’re hunting for a missing cow.
And that was how it all began
’Twixt me and Mary Flanagan;
I met her by the dairy.
I caught my breath, because, you see,
I’d seen her dad —to think that he
Could father such a fairy!
It took, I know, an hour at least
To ask her all about a beast.
I had to call there twice a week
Some wandering animal to seek;
Our interviews grew fonder.
And if her father did suspect,
He couldn’t very well object,
He knew that stock would wander.
Some nights we lost a lot of sleep
When I dropped in about the sheep.
But she grew just too fond of me,
And it was leap year, too, you see,
As I soon recollected.
So, when she said she’d love to wed,
1 hardly think that what I said
Was quite what she expected.
“I really must be going now;
I’d clean forgot about that cow.”
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Le Garmon”: The subject was the
goanna. The old camel-driver from the
Murchison put down his pot. “Garn,”
he said, “you blokes reckon the gos.
down this way grow to a fair size, but
the bungarras up north has ’em beat to a
frazzle. I was drivin’ a camel team out-
back once when I come across a big ’un
sprawled asleep across the track. 1 was
frightened I’d break me axle by running
oyer him, so I unhooked me leader and
hitched him to the bungarra’s tail.
Cripes! When I started to pull, the bung,
woke up and quick as lightnin’ run round
a mulga stump, upsetting me and me
camel. That oont would’ve choked, too,
if the chain hadn’t broke.”
* * * *
“Showman”: Mass touring for bees
is the latest. This year, for the first
time, thousands of hives of bees have
been transported in motor-trucks from
big apiaries in the Swan Valley (W.A.)
to the karri forests in the Manjimup and
Pemberton districts. About 3500 colonies
of bees have made the trip to take ad-
vantage of the present “karri flow,” so
excellent do the experts acknowledge
karri honey to be.
“Horsetailer”: At Euston (N.S.W.) a
swarm turned our roadside mailbox into
a hive. Going out for the mail, I was
surprised to see the bag in the box —it
had been pushed in with a long stick by
a relieving mailcoach driver. That wasn’t
what I called him when retrieving the
canvas container from its stronghold, or
all the way home, with myself, horse and
saddle covered with honey.
* * * *
“L.P.W.”: Is this a record for hail-
stones? During a recent storm at
Boonah (Q.) I measured an egg-shaped
one which went llin. by Bin.—and there
were several others not far short of that.
* * * *
“Leirum”: As Binghi’s original full-
dress uniform did not provide for
pockets, he keeps his hands free to carry
spears by transferring all bundles to the
shoulders of his womenfolk. Averse to
entrusting them with the care of valu-
ables like tobacco, pipe and matches,
he uses his rafher generous ears as car-
riers for these treasures. A large hole
in the lobe is drilled, and through this
the pipe is suspended: his tobacco,
twist or “rope stick,” is threaded through
a smaller one, whilst a series of small
perforations serve admirably as carriers
for matches.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: That sea horror the
barracuda (B. 15/l/’36) used to leave
his mark on the rotors of logs when
windjammers sailed tropic seas. The
spinning log had an irresistible attraction
for them; a school of the huge pike
would chase it for a mile, all snapping
at it, the vanes becoming bent and the
brass of the log covered with pits and
scores made by their horrible teeth. I
have seen two of these fish caught on
trolling lines and hauled aboard ; their
jaws are armed with teeth like those of
a crosscut saw, and the mouth can
stretch until it gapes enormously.
Imagine a barracouta of Australian
waters of a length of 6ft. and you can
get an idea of what the ’cuda looks like.
But he is not the worst fish on earth ;
that distinction belongs to the hideous
little piranha of the big South American
rivers. He’s no bigger than a small Aus-
tralian snapper, but his teeth resemble
flakes of broken glass, made to bite a
piece clean out, and he swims in big
schools. A school of these vicious little
fish would rip a man or animal to pieces.
They will follow a vessel, and the way
they lash into the galley refuse as it hits
the water is awe-inspiring.
* * * *
“Gilbulla”: Tell “Bull-ant Bill” (B.
8/1 / ’36) that Bavarian stunt of shoeing
geese for travelling by walking them
through tar and then over sand has been
used in Australia. Twenty-odd years ago
a cobber of mine took on a turkey-drov-
"That third man used to be a lifesaver, sir.”
mg job in Victoria, when the idea was
tried with success. The same chap
once induced a mob of pigs to follow
him across a long stretch of rough, hilly
country by dropping food at frequent
intervals along the road from a dray
ahead of them.
* * * *
“Hemp”: The white spider of Central
Q., though of the trapdoor species, dif-
fers from its south-
ern brethren in the
method of trap-
ping victims. It
climbs to the top
of the stalk of a
white flower, bites
off the head, and
turns over on its
back, thus assured
of a perfect camou-
flage. When a bee
alights there is a
swift, blurred
movement as the
spider wraps its
hairy legs about
the victim, makes
an incision with
its mandibles and
“I see the Wimmen's League is Wantin' 'em to make the gaols more
comf'table.”
“Some faggots DO pamper their 'usbands.”
injects a quantity of poison ; the native
bee, having no sting, is an easy prey.
* * * *
“Daylight”: I’m curious to know why
white bottles left out in the sun for any
length of time turn- either a pale-green
or a deep-purple color. Can anyone
explain?
“Bribie I.”: Several kinds of seaweed
(B. 25/12/’35) are much prized as food
in the British Isles. The leaves of the
laver weed, or “sea lettuce” (Porphyra
vulgaris), are stewed and eaten as a
vegetable, and are
also pickled. The
dulse weed (Rho-
dymenia palmate )
is chopped up
and mixed with
barley-meal and
made into bread.
In the early days
it was dried and
smoked as a to-
bacco. The sloke
weed is another
edible sea-plant.
Boiled with milk,
it is said to be delicious ; the gelatinous
matter in the weed makes the milk set
like a blancmange.
* * * *
“Mako”: The platypus when in cap-
tivity is a difficult fellow to feed.
Maoriland naturalists have no such
worry with their anachronism, the
tuatara. His diet is a sparse one, and
one specimen which has been under
scientific observation for a couple of
decades is supplied with one snail per
day—a meal that is almost too much for
him. Eating thus sparingly and sleeping
half the year, the queer little spiked
lizard enjoys a long and uneventful life:
150 years is merely middle-age to a
tuatara. And, as he never hurries or
becomes excited (he has been known to
look with interest at an object, and keep
on looking for three weeks, though the
object itself has long departed), he is a
living proof that the exponents of the
go-slow, eat-little and don’t-worry theory
are entirely right.
* * * *
“Pick”: I once saw a heavy gun-volley
fired by fighting tykes. They wrestled
blindly across our row of loaded fire-
arms leaned against a log, and discharged
every gun in the line. Possums can get
bull’s-eyes, too. George Knight, at
Tantawangle (N.S.W.), had reloaded
whilst standing beneath a branch on
which wriggled his wounded possum. In
falling, the stricken animal clutched at
the gun and pulled the trigger. A shat-
tered foot was the result.
“Talahua”: “Sailor” (B. 25/12/’35) is
’way off his course when he says that
shark tragedies are practically unknown
in tropical waters. I once spent three
years in a South Sea Island group peopled
by 30,000 natives. Armed with spears,
the inhabitants made no bones about
taking on anything that swam, sharks
included; but they didn’t always get
away with it. Several times more or less
mangled bodies were brought in for
repair. Most passed on to a happier
fishing-ground ; two whom I personally
patched up, minus respectively an arm
and a leg, now swing a wicked kava-
bowl and instruct the youth of the village
in fish-spearing.
* * * *
“J.C.”: Archie, blissfully dreaming
after a bender, yelled out that there was
a snake in the tent. The whole gang of
canecutters, thus rudely awakened, started
a furious but futile search. Thinking of
his dream, the culprit' decided to shut up!
In the morning they shifted about three
tons of wood and found a snake nearly
3ft. long. “That’s him!” said Archie.
“I couldn’t see his color, but that was
about his size, all right.” Everyone agreed
that it was a good job Archie was a
light sleeper.
* * * *
“Keg”: As a dysentery patient I am
pleased to hear of “Emel’s” specific (B.
25/12/’35). I have had emetine injec-
tions, and have taken the drug internally.
I have had the germs bred, treated and
reinjected. I have had an appendicec-
tomy, and walked about for six months
with a tube in my tummy. I have been
treated for years by the best medical and
surgical men in England and Australia.
I am still a dysentery patient and a
.doubter about cures, including “Emel’s.”
* * -1! *
“Ron J.”: A Goulburn (N.S.W.)
woodcarter owes his life to physical in-
activity after being bitten by a snake.
Reaching town he jumped
from his lorry ; his left leg
crumpled up, spreading him
helpless on the ground.
Examination disclosed two
telltale punctures on the calf
of the leg, which brought to
mind a sharp prick experi-
enced when he was gather-
ing the load. It was a close
call, but in two days the
patient was out of danger.
The doctor explained that,
with the leg motionless and
bent on the drive home, the
blood circulation had be-
come sluggish ; walking or
other exercise would, of
course, have stimulated the
flow and hastened the
obsequies.
“Saddle-flap”: Even goannas suffer
from indigestion. Near Dimbulah (N.Q.)
some kids, finding a dead go. close to
their fowlyard, cut it open to get the
fat to swell their pocket-money. Inside
the reptile’s stomach was a china egg.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Workers on the salt
deposits of Lake Tyrrell (Vic.) must raise
beautiful thirsts. Ninety miles in cir-
cumference, the greater part of its sur-
face is hard salt, which is scraped into
little piles by horse-drawn scrapers and
shovelled on to lorries by gangs of
spadesmen. The white salt reflects the
sunrays, giving a double intensity ; and,
as the atmosphere is full of saltiness
which cakes in the mouth, it takes a lot
of beer to rinse it away. How the two
pubs cater for the drouthy toilers is a
mystery. Probably the queerest thing
about the lake, which is hundreds of
miles from the coast, is the large num-
bers of seagulls. The little water in the
lake is intensely salt, yet fish abound.
* * * *
“Yes”: “C.W.D.’s” crows (B. 8/l/’36)
can be beaten out of sight when it comes
to low nests, even though one of his
built on the ground. Out Bourke
(N.S.W.) way I once knew Mrs. Kelly
to set up house down a 40ft. well, about
3ft. from the water.
BULLOCK-DRIVING DAYS.
The wind comes over the ranges bleak like a
galloping brumby colt,
And roars in the gums and slams at the door
and rattles the rusty bolt.
There’s a spirit riding the wind-torn night over
range and tossing tree,
A spirit that gladdens my wintry heart. Men
call it Memory.
Come in, old cobber, and swallow a spot and
toast your shins at the blaze,
And we’ll take a trip past ’plane and car to
the bullock-driving days.
Long years have scattered o’er ridge and range
their measure of sleet and shine
Since we mustered teams, George Alley and I,
and camped by the Turpentine.
There was little in life could daunt us then,
there was seldom a day so long
But we slaved the sun to the molten west and
met the moon with a song,
Till Time rode from out of his ambush sure
down bleak Life’s western slopes
And robbed us, the black bushranger, of our
youth and most of our hopes.
There were weeks we froze on the winter roads
when the teams were thin and weak,
And we counted loads where steep slopes rose
from the lips of the icy creek;
There were weeks when the teams were as fat
as whales and chains snapped like knit-
ting-wool,
When waggons stuck in some road-edge bog
and we straightened them up to pull.
There were dewy morns that were fair as
dreams as we mustered the mazy dells,
And the old horse stepped where the swamps
were lush through the kissing Christmas
bells.
1 hear the clatter of waggon-wheels down
the steepening slopes of years,
And I listen o’ nights to long-lost bells that
rattled on vanished steers.
Our autumn has merged into winter bleak;
Life’s chilling westerlies blow,
Now we soon shall muster the teams again
and gather our gear and go:
We shall follow old tracks to forgotten fires,
we are bound for a farther West
To camp in a valley in Time’s blue hills where
the bullock-drivers rest.
N.S.W.
JIM H. STURGISS.


“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details jrorn any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
v 4* ..MADE IN QUEENSLAND' 'BY
RAPSON&DUTTON PTY LTD
••VALLEY’ B»'SS»KE •
irMJVV'jJU
JUat -to- -mu&eM-
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
THE
fO«
m
Rtf*' 1
Rtf'
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
n
W; w;
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
McPhersons
pfy. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide, - Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Black Sheep and St. John’s Wort.
“K. Me.” That Suffolk rams have
pink body skin is no reason why when
mated with black-headed Persian ewes
the progeny will not be all-black. Experi-
ments conducted by the S’African Agri-
cultural Department showed conclusively
that 97 p.c. of such lambs are wholly
black and the others piebald. “B-gar”
(B. 29/1/’36) infers that this cannot
be so.
Evidently “B-gar” is not up to the
tricks. If he studied Mendel’s experi-
ments he would find that two varieties of
white sweet-peas when crossed produced
a number of pinks and purples. The
color factor was dormant in the parent
flowers because one of their parents
lacked the corresponding gametes to pro-
duce color. When both white parents
possessed the gametes necessary to pro-
duce pinks and purples, those colors re-
sulted. The Suffolk and black-headed
Persian each possess dark pigment quali-
ties, and there is nothing strange to
breeding science in that their progeny is
all-black, or nearly so.
Other Downs rams crossed with B.P.
ewes resulted in a much lower percentage
of black offspring.
As stated by “Ghanam” (B. 29/1/’36),
Suffolk-Romney cross sheep have been
used at Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) as St.
John’s wort foragers without becoming
affected with dermatitis. To protect these
sheep from sunrays they are hand-shorn
and plenty of wool left on.
But I am anxious to see a type evolved
suitable for coping with this pest on
rough mountains. It is not likely that
the Suffolk-Romney cross would be a
success in such country. The black Welsh
mountain sheep, suggested by “B-gar,”
should be worth an experiment. I know
of no hardier type than the black-headed
Persians; that is why I prefer trying
them. The department has now vetoed
their importation on the ground of intro-
ducing another breed. The B.P. is a
mongrel type ; but' sheep can easily be
controlled, whereas St. John’s has defied
man’s efforts for 30 years.
“Ghanam”: Whatever the weaknesses
of the black-headed Persian, lack of
stamina is not one of them. I have seen
a lot of him on his native heath. He can
find a feed for himself in snow or out
of snow. And at getting a morsel out
of a cranny he is beaten only by the wood-
pecker. When there is no morsel to get,
he will lick a rock and persuade him-
self that he is having a good breakfast, or
chew a shepherd’s spare pants —though
few shepherds up that way have any.
And, no matter how poor he is, he looks
contented, and the nature of his wool
makes life hard for the plethora of vege-
table pests which in rough country are a
bane to close-woolled sheep. Dumped
into the Blue Mountains, the average
b.-h. P., brought up in the almost tree-
less country of Iran, would imagine that
he had found Paradise. And St. John’s
wort would be caviare to him.
Sheep on Stubble.
“Hortus”: Many farmers rush sheep
on to the stubble as soon as possible
after harvesting. And there are casual-
ties, especially among young animals.
The reason of their deaths cannot be
fathomed by some. It does not require
much searching into. No matter how
much care is taken during stripping, a
lot of grain must be dropped. Young
sheep, which probably have not had previ-
ous experience of grain as feed, seem
to make for it greedily. Their digestive
organs cannot assimilate it. And in
picking it off the ground they are bound
also to become “sanded” to a certain
extent.
This does not mean that sheep should
not be put on stubble. There is no better
foraging practice. A great deal of the
straw is eaten, and the balance is broken
and trampled into the ground. This, of
course, makes it easier for ploughing
under without the texture of the land
being interfered with. But care is needed.
When grazing on stubble directly after
harvesting, first use only older sheep
rather than weaners and hoggets, especi-
ally when the grain has been badly
spilled during harvesting.
Immediately the grain has germinated,
following rain, all danger has passed.
Sheep of any age can be put into the
stubble field.
It has been proved that liquid manure
is the most' valuable of all manures. And
a stubble field fed off with sheep gets
plenty.
To obtain a uniform result, it is better
to put as large a mob as possible into
the paddock at the one time. “It is
better to put 100 sheep on for one hour
than one sheep on for 100 hours.”
A Fat-lamb Experiment.
“Winfield”: A grazier to whom fat-
lamb producers owe thanks is J.
Cavanagh, Curlewis (N.S.W.). With Mr.
Levy, a N.S.W. official sheep and wool
instructor, he has conducted a useful
trial with Romney Marsh, Dorset Horn
and Southdown rams as sires on cross-
bred ewes.
Early in April, 1935, 3 p.c. of rams
of each of these breeds were joined with
separate flocks of 100 ewes. All were
run under identical conditions; and
later the lambs of all groups were depas-
tured, marked and marketed under equal
conditions.
After lambing, the dams were grazed
on lucerne and Wimmera rye. Until
marking-time, the lambs were supplied
with plenty of milk, and the Southdown
and Dorset Horn crosses, both of which
were sappy and solid, had a substantial
lead on the R.M. cross. When feed
began to dry off the R.M. proved his
hardiness.
When I saw the lambs, the D.H. cross
was only slightly better than the Romney,
and the Southdown had slipped into
third place. Another fortnight under
unchanged conditions and the Romney
would have surpassed the D.H. also.
This, however, was because the two
Downs types had depreciated—not be-
cause the other had thrived. At this
stage none of the lambs was sappy,
partly owing to December heat.
It was thought that an earlier mating,
timing the drop for June-July, would
overcome this difficulty. It may ; but, in
view of the heavy losses caused by frost
and inadequate feed, many owners do
not favor winter lambing.
The lambs were sold at about four
months old. The D.H. cross fetched 3d.
more than the Romney, and Is. 3d. more
than the Southdown.
Had times been good the order would
have been Dorset Horn, Southdown,
Romney Marsh.
Mr. Levy’s advice is to make sure
before using either of the Downs breeds
that a paddock of suitable feed will be
waiting to see the lambs over the first
four months of their lives.
Stocking Records.
“Underwood”: Few graziers take the
trouble to keep a record of the number
of stock carried in each paddock. To
do so is essential if a check is to be kept
on the result obtained from pasture-im-
provement work, clearing or timber
poisoning.
Over a period of years, the records
will show accurately the capacity of the
property, and will be very useful for
valuation purposes. Deterioration of
pastures owing to rabbits, weeds or over-
stocking will be apparent in time to
remedy the trouble.
On mixed-farming properties the value
of fodder crops can be readily assessed.
A notebook with three columns, one
for the flock, one for the date entered
and one for the date removed, is all
that is necessary. Leave space for a
note on the condition of each paddock
at the beginning of the year. At the end
of each year’s records, write in a descrip-
tion of the season.
For accurate comparisons, the average
per acre per year must be worked out
and written in.
I treat ewes with lambs and dry sheep
separately, though some people count
three lambs as equal to one sheep.
Scabby Mouth.
“Ghanam”: Suckling lambs need to be
watched closely for scabby mouth when
they look at their mother’s teat as if it
were a hot potato and loaf, with heads
down, behind the family cortege.
Usually there is added evidence as
soon as hunger does induce them to suck.
Mouths foam then, and before long there
are pimples round the nozzle which pres-
ently break into an unpleasant yellow
mess. This becomes dark brown and
falls away after about a month, but often
not before ewes become infected and
there is some gangrenous mastitis in the
flock.
Sometimes, with the lambs, the whole
short-woolled parts of the face are in-
fected, and the disease may even strike
the ears or the base of the tail or just
above the hooves. Gums and tongue
may be attacked too.
Scab is a virus disease, sometimes
helped by injuries to the skin caused by
eating stubble or thistles or other rough
diet. Time of incubation is not more
than 48 hours. Even when the disease
has run its course, the trouble is not
over, because the scabs which fall remain
infectious. And scab does more damage
because it kills relatively few sheep,
though it halts the growth of others effec-
tively.
So soon as the disease is noticed
affected sheep should be isolated and
their noses should be dipped thoroughly
into a 3 p.c. permanganate bath. See
that the bath covers as much of the face
as possible without damaging the eyes.
About 15 seconds is a fair time for a
bath.
Where scab has developed before it
is noticed, remove the scabs and paint
the cleaned-up wounds with tincture of
iodine, repeating the dose about three
days afterwards if the first application
does not do the trick.
Coastal Fattening.
“J.W.”: It has been suggested that
some of the North Queensland coastal
country should be used for topping off
beef ; and it is a good suggestion.
Sugar has reached its peak for the
present —expansion of export is unprofit-
able and is being discouraged by Gov-
ernments. But the rich plains and valleys
around the Johnstone and the Tully
should be ideal in the right season for
putting quick flesh and bloom on well-
fed steers and heifers.
Years ago, I saw near Ingham (N.Q.)
a herd of fat, pure-bred Devons which
had been sent down from Bluff Downs
to be finished, and they were a magnifi-
cent advertisement for the country. The
plain on which they were feeding was
more than belly high in blady grass, and
the fattening feed seemed to consist of
local clovers and wild lucerne growing
round the roots.
It seems to me that, with maize country
on the Atherton, sugar by-products to
spare and soils which will grow sweet-
potatoes and millets in abundance, there
should be a good thing waiting for the
men who are prepared to try to top off
baby beef on some of the coastal lands
“Dungeness”: If a scheme sponsored
by the Tully (N.Q.) Chamber of Com-
merce turns out well, a powerful impetus
will be given to the chilled-beef industry
in the North. Mr. Brice Henry put some
hundreds of acres of scrub land in the
Tully Valley under “pedigree” grasses,
and the results in beef yield have been
remarkably increased. The 110,000 acres
in this area (25,000 freehold) are esti-
mated as able to yield 27,500 young bul-
locks annually under a system of 1000-
acre beef farms planted with selected
grasses and worked intensively. An im-
mense additional area, equally suitable
for similar development, exists between
the Burdekin and Ingham. The Tully
area is within 30 miles of the main North
Coast railway, and only 114 miles from
Townsville’s two big meatworks.
Pre-calving Mastitis.
“Silky Bag”: A baffling form of mam-
mitis is found in the cow that dries off
apparently cleanly—no ropy, clotted milk
or inflammation —and then calves down
with mastitis in one or more quarters.
As it is generally accepted to-day that
mastitis streptococci can enter the udder
only through the teat, unless these
germs are already present during lacta-
tion they must enter during drying-off.
They cannot affect the udder tissue if
swallowed or through mere skin contact.
There is plenty of direct evidence to
support this. Sore teat nipples are defec-
tive in keeping bacteria out of udders,
Many a cow has these slightly injured
or diseased nipples unnoticed by the
owner.
As drying off proceeds, the nipples’
elastic strength is lessened, so that it does
not completely seal the quarter as the
last lots of stale milk are withdrawn.
A successful method of combating
defective nipples in drying off is to strip
the cow out cleanly, wash the teats in
disinfectant water, and close the tips with
collodion. The cow is not touched again,
even if she is giving three gallons a day
when treated, until the germ-proof seal is
broken by milk flow. Then the quarter
is stripped and resealed. The treatment
does not inconvenience the cow as much
as might be expected.
Barring examination of the milk for
streptococci, this seems to be the only
way of giving the cow a chance to avoid
the disease. Teucocytes can deal mostly
with the already-present complement of
(i Continued on page 24.)


SUNSHINE AND MASSEY HARRIS
FARM IMPLEMENTS
For Summer
Cultivation
For many years Sunshine and Massey Harris farm
implements have played a pre-eminent part in the agri-
cultural development of Australia and other parts of the
world, and are renowned for quality, dependability, and
long service. A complete line and a diversity of designs
afford a wide range from which to choose the right
implement or machine for farm, pasture, orchard, or
vineyard. Ask the local agent or write direct for the
illustrated catalogue and complete price list—free and
post free.
SUNDERCUT
Stump-jump Disc Cultivating Plough
Cultivates more soil per horse-power than any other implement—
in plain or stump-jump country—and leaves the right tilth for
moisture conservation. For lightness of draught, all-the-year-round
usefulness for work in virgin soils, in hard-set fallow covered with
stinkwort, paddymelon, heavy weed growth—in all kinds of
country—it is unexcelled. Success won by winners of Fallow
Competitions is attributed mainly to the excellent work of their
Sundercuts.
10-disc, cuts sft., team-steering gear £47/15/6
14-disc, cuts 7ft., team-steering gear £5B/10/-
Also supplied with hand-steering gear, and tractor levers in lieu
of team levers, at small extra charge. Constructional features are
fully described in the SUNDERCUT FOLDER —mailed free on
request.
SUNDUKE
Bridle-draught Stump-jump Scarifier
Light, but very strong, durable, and with extraordinary clearance.
Praised by users for its outstanding work in cutting out all weeds, and
leaving a perfect seed bed and mulch. Patented Overhead Release
Gear—an outstanding feature found only on the Sunduke applies
the draught release so that numerous tynes may be “hung up” on
stumps before the release to the remainder is exhausted. Stump-
jump control is entirely at the top, so does not obstruct clearance
of the tynes.
14-tyne, 7ft. cut, for team £56/1/-
18-tyne, 9ft. cut, for team . . £65/6/6
Also supplied fully equipped for tractor working, at small extra cost.
Ask for the SUNDUKE FOLDER, which describes it fully.
MASSEY HARRIS
Certified Tractor
The New
Model 25
The latest and most powerful tractor built by Massey Harris, for use
with petrol, kerosene or distillate. HORSE-POWER (Nebraska
Test—Distillate Fuel) —Rated Drawbar, 26.44; Rated Belt, 41.01;
Maximum Drawbar, 35.25; Maximum Belt, 48.25. SPEEDS—
Standard, 4 m.p.h.; Reverse, 2\ m.p.h. OVERALL
DIMENSIONS—Length, 135 inches; Width, inches; Height
over Hood, 5 7 inches. A notable advance in tractors —durable,
sturdy and compact, simple to operate, speedy and powerful in per-
formance, with low running and maintenance expense.
The TRACTOR BOOKLET describes it fully. Write for a copy—
it’s free.
Prices quoted are net cash for delivery f.o.r. Sunshine. Extended terms can be quoted at small extra
cost. For delivery at any Australian capital or Tasmanian port, prices are a little higher. Write to the
nearest address for full particulars—free and post free.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Branches: 654-664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and
King Streets, Perth.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., South Brisbane.


MAKING BROAD FEET
. . . , Happ )
Many men with broad feet suffer
agony because their Shoes are not
wide enough. In this Model
Abbey caters expressly for the
man who cannot be fitted with
an ordinary stock width of Shoe.
dsf
Made in and Brown Calf, this Abbey Model is stocked
in full and half sizes, and. in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price: Black, 37/6; Brown Calf, 39/6.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
' 316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address > “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
WA 17.
PLUM EilOR-’CUARD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PIiUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
AU post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in cwo
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keDt in order for two
vears free cf charge.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
55
Z,
%
SB
i
a*
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
RHEUMATISM
Tortured Back
BLADDER WEAKNESS
End Such Troubles Fast, with-
out dyes, dope or danger. Har-
rison's Pills best Proprietary
Remedy for even Bad Cases.
Cleanse, soothe and heal your raw, inflamed
Kidneys and Bladder—get rid of uric acid,
rheumatic germs and poisons—get peaceful,
healthy sleep at night, with no more dis-
turbances from urinary pressure, by taking
Harrison’s Pills. Best for young or old, either
sex. In a few minutes, Harrison’s Pills start
their beneficial work. In a few hours you feel
better. In a few days you’re a new person.
Get Harrison’s Pills at any Chemists —3 inex-
pensive sizes. Money back on first bottle if
it isn’t miles better than any other remedy
you’ve ever tried. Get genuine Harrison’s!
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
GIANT SHIP
EUROPE
"Empress of 'Britain'
.
(/, Enjoy this new travel thrill
0 as a climax to your journey
'A Home.
V\ 42,500 tons gross of floating luxury.
() All living quarters have outside
0. light and air. Standing beds .. .
V\ Ballroom .. . Stage .. . Screen .. .
() Olympic Swimming P 001... Tennis
\k Court .. . whole deck for Sports
‘A ... cuisine and personal service of
a new order. Rates surprisingly
moderate.
Write for beautifully illustrated booklet.
I
(J. m.v Touri
CANA
~n Geo,
ourist Bookrnsr Agency or
CANADIAN I’ACIFIC,
George Street. Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World 9 s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
l6/35
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
)rafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted: All usual
banking business transacted.
ffuf&xillelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
germs in a sealed udder, unless a dis-
eased lesion is present above the nipple,
inside.
In this case prior treatment is called
for. Immerse the stripped-out teat twice
daily in boracic water.
Tubercle in Victoria.
“Wundi”: Another attempt is to be
made in Victoria to abolish tuberculosis
in dairy herds.
The promoters are optimists, but the
job is worth doing, as it is rapidly being
i done in U.S.A., where 230,000 herds and
3,400,000 cattle have been certified free.
The chief vet. of the Victorian Agricul-
tural Department (R. J. de C. Talbot)
and the veterinary research director (Dr.
Albiston) have worked out a plan under
which farmers participating will have
their herds examined by a veterinary. Re-
actors will be isolated, and if none is
found there will be a retest of the herd
in 12 months’ time. No fresh cattle will
be admitted to a tested herd unless after
a test for tuber. All skim for calves will
be pasteurised..
It is a start, but it does not go far
!enough.
Do Blacksmiths Cut Feet?
“Stump Jump”: Let’s give country
blacksmiths a fair spin (B. 5/2/’36). My
experience of them is that they don’t
use the paring knife if they can avoid it.
Time and again I’ve had to shoe my own
horses when I could little afford the time,
simply because, after three or four lots
of smithy shoes, the hoof had grown too
long.
I cannot count half a dozen smiths out
of at least 25 dealt with who put a knife
on the frog edges. Fortunately, they
simply won’t bother about such things.
As for the outside “hard skin,” or cuticle,
this is overrated in importance.
Rasp trimming around the shoe edge
simply prevents overgrowth. Most smiths
rarely do more than rasp over the nail
clinches on the surface.
Tetanus in Horses.
“Albarmount”: When a horse goes
down with tetanus “Valerin” (B. 5/2/’36)
should have advised the gun, not the vet.
At this stage the virus has spread
throughout the nervous system, and the
animal is in intense agony. The chances
are 100 to 1 against the vet., and the
anti-toxin required may cost twice the
: prad’s value. A shot is more merciful.
Some years ago my vet.,* when given
| the symptoms, blankly refused to treat
a horse down with tetanus. He said it
would be robbing my pocket and his
reputation. Since then I have learnt the
value of early diagnosis.
The early symptoms, head and tail
poked out and stiff gait, are also in evi-
dence with botulism. But the surest
test for tetanus is to force up the head,
and if the third eyelid is drawn over
the eyes there is no further doubt.
Pigs and Molasses.
“Pappamosca”: In Maoriland, experi-
ments have recently been made with a
ration consisting of 121 b. to 151 b. of
carrot per pig, plus 31b. of meatmeal
and about l|lb. molasses in a
mixture with water.
Nine sows which were fed on this diet
produced 81 piglets, which weighed on
an average 36|lb. 56 days after birth. It
was a case of winter farrowing, too.
Some of the litters were sold as prime
baconers at 5i months old.
The youngsters were given a diet which
followed their mother’s. At three weeks,
they had molasses heavily diluted with
water, and they consumed as well up to
of meatmeal per day fed in dry
feeders. Sometimes, separated milk was
added. The litters were completely
weaned at six weeks, were given the run
of sunny paddocks and slept in houses
which opened to the morning sun.
Molasses seems to go well with most
root feeds, but one of the secrets of suc-
cess with it' with pigs is to err on the
side of thinness in making it up with
water. Too strong a mixture can be
harmful. Also too sudden a change from
other foods does no good.
Sharpening Discs.
“Winfield”: When fallowing recently-
harvested paddocks under dry conditions
it is not easy to keep discs sharp. Lathe
sharpening costs to 30s. per set, so a little
trouble is worth while.
The first thing is a contrivance with
which to turn the disc slowly. The spur
wheel of a disused Sunshine header,
with its two bearings, axle and the drum
pinion with which it meshes, will do. A
handle is fastened to the drum pinion,
which is made to drive the spur wheel,
and this in turn drives the axle. The disc,
which must be adjusted to run true, is
fixed to the end of the axle.
The next thing is to rig a small roller
to run flat against the front of the disc,
near the edge, so that when the operator
puts the pressure of the cutter on the
back of the disc the roller will be directly
in front of it. This is to stop the disc
from bearing away.
Old files make excellent cutters, though
any good steel will do. The files them-
selves must be frequently sharpened at
the ends with an emery wheel.
The impossibility of holding the cutters
firmly enough by hand makes still an-
other contrivance necessary. Take a
piece of flat iron about 2ft. long, and
on one end, with a piece of flat iron
about 4in. long and two bolts, make a
vycelike grip to hold the cutter. About
2in. back from this, grip-bolt the iron
loosely to the wooden frame on which
the machine has been constructed.
By holding the long end of the iron a
good leverage is obtained.
The shavings that drop off should be
about the size of those from a lathe.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wrash”: Straw to supplement chaff
feed should be cut as long as the chaff-
cutter extension will allow. Long straw-
chaff cannot be swallowed without chew-
ing, as fine-cut straw can. Indigestion
and colic are prevented by cutting the
straw-chaff long.
“Dixit”: Feeders for sheep can be
made from kero.-tins. Cut the tin
diagonally from one corner to the other.
Cut down to the bottom along one angle
and divide the bottom diagonally like the
top. The halves of the tin are folded
apart, and two feeders back to back are
the result. The feeders are hung on a
low wire, the “joint” edge swinging as
a hook.
“Granova”: Save a small paddock of
lucerne for spelling working horses. A
fortnight of it will see the teams fat and
fresh.
“Big End”: To make a very cheap and
durable paint for pug or pise walls boil
butchers’ brine and stir in lime as Jt
boils, until of suitable consistency. Color
with raddle.
“W.D.Mc.”: I cannot understand any
sheepman using bluestone and mustard
as a drench for worms when there is
a more efficient one in the form of
the arsenic, soda and tobacco drench
available. I do not wonder at “Sheepo’s”
jumbucks looking seedy after a dose of
bluestone and mustard. Let “Sheepo"
knock some skin off his hands and then
dip them in bluestone, and he will then
be able to form a faint idea of the effect
it has on the tender lining of the sheep’s
stomach and intestines.
“El V.”: A Friesian matron, La Vertex
Quantity, owned by Nebraska Univer-
sity (U.S.A.), celebrated her thirteenth
year with a tenth annual production
record of 24,325.21 b. milk and 813.131 b.
butter-fat. Her total lifetime production
is 227,8241 b. milk and 8449.431 b. fat,
which are world’s records. The previous
fat record was held by a Canadian Frie-
sian with 82401 b. in nine years. But
neither of the champions can touch the
new single-year all-breeds record of Car-
nation Ormsby Nellie —35,8861 b. milk
and 1328.81 b. fat. Her sire, Matador
Segis Ormsby, has six daughters with fat
records over 10001 b.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
11
m
lift*
iliiiii
m
ill
111
■
( _ ! n
II
R
111
WjM
mm.
&
~j
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Peace, Perfect Peace.
“Yes, it was just about my ideal of a
vacation,” said Jones. “Nothing to do
but lounge around all day in comfort-
able chairs. No insects, no mosquitoes,
no annoyances. Air-conditioning and
hot and cold water. Bright, smiling faces
on every side, pleasant conversation,
amusing anecdotes. No bills running up
all the time, no relatives calling on us
and no sunburn. Just peace and quiet-
ness all day long. A thorough rest for
mind and body—freedom from strain —
the kind of thing a man always dreams
about.”
“How long did you have?” I asked
with interest.
“Only a week,” Jones sighed. “All
too short. Still, next time the boss goes
away he’s going to take a fortnight.”
Cloon.
■J 1 + + 4*
“A crooner says that he thinks of his songs
when he can’t sleep at night.”
We never realise what insomnia is
like until it’s brought home to us.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Few Suggestions.
“A national film library is to be established
at Canberra.”
It is to be hoped that for the benefit
of future generations “shots” of the fol-
lowing highlights in Australian history
will not be omitted from the collection:
1. Federal members making their cele-
brated Salary Grab.
2. Mr. Lang opening Sydney Harbor
Bridge by proxy.
3. The first hold-up of a transport
lorry by Motor Strangulators.
4. Mr. Lyons cementing relations with
U.S.A. by kissing Shirley Temple.
5. The week-end gold-pass express
leaving Canberra.
6. Dismissal of Billy Hughes for being
right about sanctions.
7. Kisch’s jetty-jump.
8. Mr. Parkhill taking the salute
from his chauffeur (a member of the
permanent military forces) on arrival
at Sydney Central station.
Uco.
His Philosophy.
“Local supplies of beer, potatoes and butter
have petered out at Mount Isa, owing to the
interruption in the railway service.”— “Sun.”
The travelling philosopher had just
arrived at Mount Isa.
Wandering into a hotel dining-room,
he sat down, picked up a piece of bread,
and looked around the table for the
butter. “Sorry,” said the waitress, “but
there’s no butter. You know —the rail-
way.”
“Oh, well,” he said philosophically, “I
guess we can put up with that. There
are worse things in life than doing with-
out butter, eh?”
Presently his meal was brought in.
There were no potatoes with it —and
potatoes were his favorite vegetable.
The waitress explained again, and
once more his good humor predomi-
nated.
“Worse things happen at sea, eh?” he
laughed.
After his meal, the happy philosopher
strolled into the bar.
“Pint of beer, please!” he called.
“Sorry,” said the barmaid, “there’s
no beer.”
“What!” he shouted. “No beer!
“What sorta place do you call it? Dis-
graceful. I’m getting out of this con-
founded hole at once! ”
T. W. N.
A Decade-ent Digression.
“Professor Domenico Argentiere, one of
Italy’s leading astronomers, believes that the
new year 1936 a.d. should really be styled
1946 a.d.” —Adelaide “Express.”
I find the idea alluring, and I intend
wholeheartedly supporting the professor,
anticipating universal adoption if I can.
The last of the t.-p. instalments on my
car, radio, home, pianola, furniture,
engagement ring and the suit I bought
last week fall due in 1942. Should 1936
be officially declared 1946, it naturally
follows that my outstanding debts would
automatically be wiped off. Moreover,
I would have strong claims against the
various cos. concerned for a refund of
overpayments made during the four
years 1942 to 1946.
I propose to trade-in my car this
week for the latest streamlined limou-
sine, payments to be completed by 1945.
As a gesture of goodwill, I shall forbear
“Where'll l drop 'em, missus ?
to claim reimbursement of one year’s
payments, for which I would patently
have a just claim.
The claim for ten years’ salary due
to me will also engage attention, but it
requires some thought.
Certainly I shall be ten years older,
but this will be offset by the compensa-
tion of my being able to retire ten years
earlier to enjoy the fruits of the innova-
tion. My wife’s age will also be changed,
thus making her two years older than she
is at present.
There are two pestiferous flies with
their heads stuck in the Utopian oint-
ment.
Inescapably, I would be socked for
Federal, State, special, super and super-
special income taxes over that period.
With late fees, double taxing for failing
to submit returns when due at the
prescribed dates each year, and fines for
attempting to evade tax by that failure, I
should probably owe the departments
treble my income over that period, leav-
ing a debt of several thousands which I
could never liquidate.
Then, again, my mother-in-law, a
long, bony, angular, aggressive woman
of the my-daughter-right-or-wrong type,
who came for a week-end three months
ago and is still here, would be with me
over ten years. Strangle the thought!
S. W. K.
A girl should realise before accepting
the present that she might have to go
through the future with a past.
4* +
Paid in Full.
“See that eight-cylinder sedan on the
other side of the street?” said the sad
little man. “I paid for it week by week
out of my savings. Every bob I could
spare went towards it.”
“Then why don’t you drive it about
instead of riding in the trams?” I asked.
“Oh, I never owned it,” he said. “It
belongs to my bookmaker.”
D. S.
Dodging Them.
When a man chums up with a bloke
on the track he likes to fit into his
moods. Bill simply seemed to want to
go on travelling; and as he didn’t want
to say why I didn’t ask him.
Walking and jumping the rattler we
reached Orange. I told him that we could
get' a swim in a bit of a waterhole there,
but he shook his head.
“How quick can you git from Sydney
to here?” he asked.
“About a day,” I says.
“You have a swim if you want it,” he
says. “I’ll wait.”
We got to Broken Hill at last. I put
the bathing proposition again, but he
says:
“ ’Ow far —in quick travel —is this
from Sydney?”
I tell him from the railway time-
table. “There’s an aeroplane service,
though,” I added. “On that, the time
between Sydney and here is only about
eight hours.”
He had seemed about to undress, but
he buttons up again.
“Let’s push on,” he said.
Months later we were in the centre of
Australia when we came across a rock
pool. It was very inviting, and I got
ready at once.
“Come on, Bill,” I said, “it’s about
time you enjoyed a swim. I’ve had
plenty, but you’ve always dodged it.”
“How far is this from Sydney?” he
asked.
“In time?” I asked. “Oh, weeks and
weeks. There’s no train service and
there’s no air service. It would take
weeks.”
He started to undress.
“We oughter be safe enough from
sharks here,” he says.
H. M.
•b
“It was only amazing confidence in himself
that enabled the tight-rope walker to perform
such feats.”
Confidence tricks.
*b *b •£• *b
“Prices of opium have dropped alarmingly
in Europe and America, and supplies are
plentiful.”— Melb. “Herald.”
A drug on the market.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
II. — The Inhabitants.
The natives of Australia (not to be
confused with aboriginals) are white in
those parts of their persons that bathing
regulations do not permit to have direct
access to the sun’s rays. In appearance
they are very like the denizens of other
countries, though perhaps not so foreign-
looking.
They are practically civilised, notwith-
standing any impression to the contrary
that the tourist may gain from a Colling-
wood-South Melbourne football final or
an autumn bargain sale. They are
polite, in that they don’t bite and seldom
put their feet on the table at meal-times,
and the notice often seen in trams ex-
pressly forbidding expectoration is
further evidence that they are well aware
of the proprieties.
Education is free and compulsory, and
the standard of learning throughout the
country does not vary much, so that it
is almost as difficult to find a man who
can’t read a racecard as it is to find one
who can understand a “S. M. Herald”
leading article.
Some idea of the high intellectual level
attained may be gained from a considera-
tion of the fact that there is not one
member of any of the seven Parliaments
who cannot both read and write. Most
of them can also work out simple sums.
A few have even greater attainments, but
modesty keeps them from revealing them.
Modesty is a characteristic of the
people. For instance, no Australian
artist, writer or singer is ever recognised
as a genius by his fellows. They feel
that by praising him they would be prais-
ing themselves. They wait, therefore,
until he goes abroad and is acclaimed by
the world. Then they blushingly admit
that “there was something about the lad.”
Remembering then the modest, retir-
ing nature of the Australian native, the
tourist should tread very warily. He
should never suggest that any Australian
scenery surpasses or even compares
favorably with similar scenes abroad.
He’ll be suspected of leg-pulling.
Other things he should not suggest are
that the girls are prettier, the physique of
the men finer or the standard of sport
higher than elsewhere. Above all, he
must never remark that the Australian
method of doing anything is superior to
the British method.
He won’t be believed, and he will be
accused of having an axe to grind.
If the tourist will bear these few points
in mind he will find the Australian quite
easy to get on with.
Jasby.
4* *i*
Not Notified.
“Lend us a coupla bob, Bill,” pleaded
Snowy as Bill left the pay window.
“They’ve put me on half-time this week.”
Obligingly Bill fumbled in his pocket
for the envelope and ripped it open.
“Cripes, Snowy,” he whistled, “they’ve
overpaid me!” Honesty personified, he
walked back to the window.
“There’s ten bob too much in my
envelope,” he . explained. The clerk
counted.
“That’s in order,” he said. “You’ve
had a rise.”
“Since when?” demanded Bill.
“Six months ago.”
A ghastly pallor stole over Bill’s manly
tan, and he reeled slightly.
“An’ the wife never told me! ” he
groaned.
Mac.
Afterwards.
She passed me in a city street;
My sight grew dim with tender tears,
And rapidly my pulses beat:
/ had not seen that face ' for years !
We had been lovers in our youth.
Ah, me ! How wildly would we kiss!
How oft we vowed eternal truth
As we embraced with burning bliss!
And as 1 glimpsed her in the street,
And thought of days when she alone
Could make my earthly joy complete,
I sighed, “Alas! How fat she’s
grown !”
NAT.
Fame.
However hard he toils for fame,
Who can hope to make a name
Like Colonel Bogey, Clever Mary,
Davy Jones or Mother Carey,
Betty Martin, Nosey Parker,
Jimmy Woods or Johnny Walker 7
A. WALL.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji:—
ISLAND HERITAGE
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person .]
OCL CLIDJSU 02 ATT HED BV;
W. CK .TT<D WP&JS [H (EM CD
BY ALISON SMITH
Chapter XV.
DAWN broke over Valoa—a wild, red dawn.
It flared across the seas surging over the
reefs, and steeped the storm-ravaged
settlement with angry light. Into its heat crept men
and women from the houses. The red, unnatural
radiance appeared to veil them momentarily with
flame.
Taniela, opening shutters that had been bolted
against the storm, let the sinister light flow into the
shabby, white Bennett house. The garden in ruins
about it appeared to emphasise its pitiful dilapidation.
Adela, shivering a little, came out into the red
light. Her face was haggard; she moved slowly like an
old woman. Watching out the stormy night in terror,
unable to lie down or rest, she had felt through the
dark hours a growing sense of foreboding unlike
anything she had ever known. In vain she told herself
that Denny had been out in wilder weather, that
cutters far less seaworthy than the little Lotisa had
ridden out stronger gales, that there had been ample
time to run to shelter. The brooding premonition of
disaster weighed heavily upon her. She could not
shake it off.
Elena, too, and Vivien had spent a night of dread.
Three women —oppressed with a brooding fear.
Against that thunder of breaking waves monstrous
pictures rose in their fearful minds.
“Dirty weather, and more of it to come,”
Laurence said, eyeing the fantastic sky. “A hurricane
maybe, or we’ll get the tail-end of one from outside.”
That was later in the stormy afternoon. Turn-
ing, he saw Vivien’s haunted eyes, and felt quick pity.
The child looked like a ghost! Worrying over that
damned Denny Bennett, he supposed with irritation.
He had been vexed to hear that Denny had returned,
but he could not watch unmoved the dread in Vivien’s
eyes. Elena, too. She was fond of Denny. Women
were like that —worked themselves up without reason.
Time enough for that when the damage was actually
done ; not that he anticipated bad news of the little
cutter. Harley and Denny would be safe somewhere
in the harbor. He essayed rough comfort.
“There’s little to worry over, lass,” he said
hearteningly. “Never fear for Denny. They’ll both
be safe enough. But don’t think I’m encouraging you
to play at lovemaking when he does come back. The
Bennetts have caused enough trouble. Smile, lassie —
get that look off your face. D’ye think a bit of a
gale like last night’s is going to wreck Harley and
Denny? They’d laugh at you!”
But Vivien refused to be comforted. She crept
away and sobbed her heart out —as if she felt the
approach of tragedy. And late that afternoon news
came from Korovou, a little cluster of native houses
about a white-walled church down the coast. The
wreckage of the Lotisa had been driven ashore, but
of the two who had manned her there was no sign.
“The end of them,” said Laurence, moved. “No
hope for them. They must have left it too late ; been
shattered to driftwood on the reef. A bad business—
damned bad.”
He told his wife, thinking she might break the
news more gently to Vivien. To his amazement the
stately woman seemed to crumple together, to sink
back as if she had been mortally struck. She looked
up at him like one dying—could not speak. He was
alarmed, and deep within him awoke strange, unname-
able dread.
“Come! Come!” he said. “You take it harder
than the child. Is it so much to you?”
Still she did not speak ; and, as he stood amazed,
Vivien came quietly into the room lit with the light
of the angry afternoon. She saw her father turn and
look at her with compassion; she saw her mother’s
shaking, helpless hands, her trembling lips that could
not shape the words she sought. In a moment she
flashed into fierce life. She ran to Laurence; she
clung to him with tense hands.
“What’s happened?” she cried, and on the instant
answered herself. “Denny’s gone! I knew it! I
knew it all day!”
A moment it seemed they three were held in a
stillness curiously ringed about by the rising sound of
wind outside and the thunder of the waves breaking
over the reef.
It was over. Her father was speaking. How
different he, too, looked in the angry light!
“He’s gone,” said her father heavily. “No use
holding it back from you. But you’re young—you’ll
forget. Time heals everything for the young. Denny
could never have been anything to you. Remember
that, my lassie! And there’s one in Valoa
his death will cut to the heart. Denny’s
mother! You’d both better see what you
can do for her.”
He had forgotten—or chose to forget—
the ban he had put on their relations with the Bennett
household.
But Vivien was saying incredible things. She
seemed to have forgotten dumb Elena and himself.
Exalted in grief, tearless and untrembling, she lifted
her young face to the light. She communed with dear
and poignant memories.
“The end of everything for you and me,” Vivien
said. “You and I who were lovers, Denny, dear. All
over —though we had all.”
‘ “God in Heaven! ” said the man, suddenly aghast.
“What are you saying? What was there between you
both that you look like that? Answer me. By God,
I’ll have the truth!”
Elena at last found her voice. It sounded dry
and unnatural; the velvety softness had left it.
“Let her alone,” she said. “She doesn’t know
what she’s saying.”
“It was you,” said Vivien, turning on her mother,
“who sent him to his death. You think I didn’t know.
You parted us. I can’t forgive you.”
“Answer me,” said Laurence again. “Was there
more between you and Denny than I knew? If there
was, ft’s well for him he’s gone. I’d have had his life
otherwise. Did you hear her, Elena? Did you hear
what she said? And, God Almighty, what hand did
you have in this business, Elena? A figurehead—
that’s what I am, it seems. Come! Out with it!”
But his wife, still trembling violently, had eyes
only for Vivien; she disregarded utterly the man
working himself into dangerous rage.
“My dear! My dear! I did it for your good. To
get Denny away. I meant no harm to him. I was so
afraid he and youf father would meet. How could I
know this would happen? Denny gone—and Peter.
It hurts like death.”
“Yes,” said Vivien softly. “It hurts like death. It
will always hurt.”
Elena’s hands went out to hers, and then fell
back afraid.
“Am I to get the rights of this or not?” cried
Laurence again. “What was Denny to you? I ask you
that again.”
Vivien, still unnaturally calm, looked at him then.
“He was everything,” she said, as if explaining
some obvious fact to one dense of understanding.
“You wouldn’t let us marry. You never would have
let us. Well, we took our happiness in spite of you.
And I’m glad we did. Glad. And if he had lived, I’d
have married him. You know it all now. And I wish
that I was drowned, too, with Denny in the sea.”
Again she seemed to forget them both, swayed
by her passionate memories. Back to her came the
stolen hours in Suva: the little sensuous city, trees
bending down, thick night and
Denny’s arms. She regretted
nothing.
But Laurence, speechless
in his turn, had a moment’s
strange perception that Denny
had not been worth the over-
whelming passion that was in
this Southern child. It passed,
and he found a flood of furi-
ous words.
“God Almighty! You’re
a loose woman —my own
daughter. Giving yourself to
that worthless young waster.
Without shame! You can
stand there and tell me what
you’ve done! Do you hear,
Elena? Do you hear? You’re
right—you’d be better dead.”
Vivien smiled, unheeding
his anger.
“You can’t take it from me,” she said. “I’m glad.
I always shall be glad.”
“By God, no! ” her father thundered. “But I can
be done with you, you loose baggage. Get but of my
sight before I strike you down. First Rod, and then
you—the ones I cherished. You’re no daughter of
mine. I disown you. Disown you. Do you hear?”
Elena, wild with terror, caught his uplifted arm.
“You shan’t touch her! You’ll strike me first!”
“I wouldn’t soil my hands!” he cried. “Out of
my sight! You’re no daughter of mine.”
Vivien looked then at him with horrified, incredu-
lous eyes; and suddenly Elena began to laugh
strangely, horribly. They turned to her.
“Oh, you fool! You fool!” she cried. “You
want the truth, do you? Well, you’ll hear it.”
• “What do you mean?” he said, catching her
wrist. She shook free and laughed again.
“You’ll drive Vivien away—disown her? You
fool! She was never yours to own.”
“Christ! What do you mean?”
Elena’s wild laughter pealed through the room.
“She’s no daughter of yours. Peter was her
father. The only man I ever loved. Fool! Fool!
You never guessed. Oh, my God! And Peter’s dead.
Dead! Dead! Dead! ”
Vivien, aghast, saw Laurence take the blow, saw
her mother break into hysterical weeping. She ran
wildly out into the windy afternoon.
Out into the wild late afternoon Vivien fled like a
thing demented. The sound of the rising tide surging
up in angry breakers on Valoa beach, mingled with
the heavier sound of waves crashing on the outer reef,
came to her, and she thought, as she fled, that she
would always hear it. It would be like that, too, for
Denny’s mother, she thought. She, too, would have
the ruthless, overwhelming sound in her ears till she
died. She was aware that men and women looked
curiously at her as she sped past; some of them spoke
to her, but she took no notice. They were like futile,
shadowy figures in a dream of terror and death. She
came to the white-walled, decaying Bennett house, and
paused as if she had touched reality. She went slowly
up the path, where leaves and broken branches lay as
the wild night had scattered them. Out in the angry
light came old Moga, feeling her way. She put out
shaking hands and drew the young girl into the house
of grief. The door shut on them.
Chapter XVI.
IN the darkening room husband and wife faced each
other. Neither had noticed Vivien’s distraught
flight; she was forgotten for the time in the greater
issues that lay between them. Laurence, looking at
her in the strange calmness that sometimes took him
after moments of violent emotion, felt in a flashing
perspicuity a hundred perplexities become easy of
solution.
That aloof something in her he had never had
and had so much desired. Little evasions, strange
exhilarations to which he had no key. The subtle,
hidden antagonism that she had sometimes let go
unguarded. That had been because, loving another
man with all her strength and passion, she had held
back from him her curious soul. But Harley had had
it all —the secret self and the beautiful body that
shrined it. Together they had laughed at him. At
that he felt anger again, but he mastered it. Elena, for
her part, had lost for the time all fear of him —the
hidden fear that, in spite of her power over him, she
had always felt. But now, with Peter’s loss torturing
her, she relinquished all caution. Let him kill her if
he liked! She didn’t care.
Everything was ended. She might regain in later
years a sleepy content, lapped in the luxury she loved;
but at present all was tragedy. Like Vivien, she
regretted nothing of the past, but grieved only that
all was over. Even as the past came back to Laurence
in this intense hour, so to the woman came back
vivid scenes from her passionate youth—all sharply,
clearly seen in a timeless perception. Herself young
in Valoa, and Peter young, too, and an ardent lover
who hoped to win her. The world all golden heat, and
men in love with her young beauty. Her marriage
and the exultant sense of her power over her husband.
That, too, had pleased her. And after marriage the
stolen, vivid hours with the younger lover. She regretted
nothing—only that all had ended ; and, as caution
began to stir in her, the fact that she had foolishly
let this other man, who mattered so infinitely less,
know too much. But she could win him back. Easily,
so easily. She was to be disillusioned.
Laurence spoke:
“All these years you kept this from me. Lived
a damned lie. Laughed at me for a fool because I
thought no woman your equal. I’ve known many
women, Elena —good women and light—but none—
not even the lowest among them —would have served
a man who loved her as you’ve served me. God!
I’ve done with you. Done with you for ever.”
THE STORY SO FAR.
The children of James Laurence,
trader and planter, of Ruvia, Fiji, are
a strange trio. Roddy, the eldest, though
almost white, has the blood of Laurence’s
former dark mistress. Ruve is the
daughter of the planter’s first wife, who
died when she was born. The third
child, Vivien, also has dark blood. Her
mother is Elena, a beautiful half-caste
girl, whom Laurence married when Ruve
was a small child.
Roddy and Ruve have been educated
outside Fiji, the former in Auckland
and the latter in Sydney. Laurence has
great plans for Roddy, but when the lad
marries Lola Bennett without consulting
him he flies into a rage and turns him.
out of the house. Roddy is brilliant, but
impractical. He has in his mind a
nebulous dream that the Islands should
be controlled by those of mixed blood.
In last week’s instalment Ruve was
married to Dick Carew, Laurence’s
former overseer, who had acquired a
property at Vunisesi. On the same night
Denny Bennett, with whom Vivien is in
love against her father’s wishes, left
Valoa with Peter Harley in the latter’s
launch.


“Jim! I was mad. I don’t
know what I’ve been saying.”
“Don’t lie to me. You spoke
the truth a moment ago if ever
you spoke it in your life. I want
no more of a half-caste’s leav-
ings.”
Elena flamed.
“I loved him before I knew
you. You—you gave me no
peace. Were you to have every-
thing? I was a girl, foolish,
young. They drove me into mar-
riage with you because you owned
Ruvia. You that were hard to
women before me. Did you
think I did not hear of your
harshness with the ones who went
before me? Tessa, the girl from
Valoa who left you ; the meek
fool Ruve’s mother”
“Leave her out of it—she
loved me,” he said in so danger-
ous a tone that she took warning
and paused in her bitter out-
burst.
“Go on. Go on,” he said
grimly. “Say all you have to say
—while you have time.”
“Why—what are you going
to do?” she questioned fearfully.
“Kill me?”
“Once I might have,” he said.
“Now —no. You don’t matter
enough to me for that. I’ve only
thought it all these years. I made
an image of what you were not
—and could never be—and worshipped it.”
It was strange how calm he was. Elena, who
knew his violent fits of anger, was amazed. And,
strangely, even in the heart of her grief and fear, she
resented this unfamiliar indifference'; he took from
this time a new importance and interest in her eyes.
But she was defiant.
“You worshipped me! You mean you would
have taken youth and all from me for yourself and
your damned Ruvia that always came first. Ruvia
was what you worshipped— not me. But I took what
I could from life ; and I don’t regret it.”
Darkly magnificent, she looked back again on
the past; she smiled, as if her insatiate memory fed
on secret joys. The man, watching her, felt the
unnatural calm breaking at last, felt rage rising, and
knew that he could not long control it. Once he
would have killed. Was he as far from that ultimate
violence as he imagined, while she, still desirable,
remembered and gloried in her love for another? He
must put the sea between them ; give himself time
to meet and master this new disaster that over-
whelmed all that had gone before. He turned.
“Where are you going?” she cried in a panic.
He answered from the door:
“Back to Ruvia. I’m better away from you,
Elena. With all your sins, you’re too young to die ;
and I’ve no wish to let the world know what sort
of a damned fool you made of me. You can thank
your God, though, your lover’s dead. It would have
been one of us if he hadn’t gone. Aye, one of us —
and I’d not have been the one.”
“You can’t go back to Ruvia to-night. Listen to
the wind—the waves. There’ll be a hurricane
to-night.”
“I’m going back,” he said. “I’ll not drown like
Harley. The sea won’t beat me.”
“You’re mad! You’re mad!” she cried, but he
was gone. She began to laugh again hysterically in
the dark room. Her mother, coming in furtive-footed,
cried out in alarm.
Over Valoa the angry sunset flared red. Dark
clouds were driving across the stained sky ; a night
of hurricane seemed imminent. Laurence went
straight into the Fijian town ; to the house where he
knew Semeli, his engine-boy, was staying. He was
aware that Semeli would be justified in refusing to
accompany him; but Semeli, bulky, taciturn, a good
man in an emergency, as Laurence had often proved,
was ready, though dubious. They went down to the
shore. Outside the sea was running high.
Dissonance met him on the beach ; men tried to
keep them back. Little Clark came fussing out from
the shuttered store.
“Hell! You’re not going back to-night? It’s
plain suicide. Look at the sea running out there.”
“I know what I’m doing,” Laurence said curtly.
“Don’t hinder me, man. I want to get to Ruvia
before the worst of it comes on.”
“Get to Kingdom Come more like,” Clark said.
“What’s Mrs. Laurence think of it?”
“Damn you! Get out of 'my way,” snapped
Laurence. “Let her go, Semeli.”
“Oh, hell! Go your own way then,” grumbled
Clark, stepping back offended. “Too high and mighty,
some of us, to take advice.”
But Laurence had already forgotten the little
fussing man and the group of Fijians on the beach
who had tried in vain to dissuade him. They were
making for the narrow passage that, when the tide
was high enough, obviated the longer journey round
the winding Valoa coast. Once through the passage
and clear of Valoa, they could make straight for
Ruvia, jumping the intervening reefs. The stout
launch was in good running order ; he did not reckon
on engine trouble, and he was wont to say he knew
the crossing blindfold. But it would be hazardous
enough to-night. He felt he was pitting the rising
fury in him against the wild anger of the elements.
Better against them than women ; but he wished with
“Let her out, Semeli!” he shouted. The struggle began in grim earnest.
all his soul he and the dark, handsome Harley—
dead now and done with—could have met man to
man.
“Bloody skunk!” he said aloud. “Taking a man’s
wife—my wife —shaking hands with me times out of
number. Bloody skunk!”
The storm-ravaged shores of Valoa slipped past ;
the loud, regular throbbing of the engine mingled with
the scream of the wind and the booming of waves.
Yet here, on the lee side of Valoa, and sheltered by
her clustering islets, it was comparatively calm. The
real peril would lie in the stormy crossing between
the other side of Valoa and more-distant Ruvia. He
knew what the sea would be like there, and how
swiftly the dark would be upon them. But the gale
itself would be with them then ; he reckoned on jump-
ing the Ruvia reef by nightfall. If they failed, or the
night caught them too far out —well, it was the
end.
He didn’t give a damn which way it went in the
savage mood that held him. But he’d make a fight
for it; and so would Semeli, now getting the most
out of the engine. He felt a momentary compunc-
tion for Semeli. The poor, reliable devil didn’t deserve
drowning ; but, anyway, he’d come of his own free
will. He hadn’t coerced him. Semeli had a wife and
two fat babies in Ruvia. Well, if they went down,
Melika would find another mate. But they weren’t
going down; he’d take damned fine care of that.
With the anger in his heart rose a savage delight in
this flinging of himself and Semeli into conflict with
almost certain death. There was no time now to
think of his suave, unfaithful Elena; the hour’s
urgency drove everything else out of his mind. They
were out of the passage now, and heading for the
stormy sea under the darkening sky. Ruvia was
blurred in flying squalls, though sometimes the dark
shape of her showed through. On the reef the waves
crashed and rose in ghostly columns.
“Let her out, Semeli! ” he shouted ; and the big
man grunted a reply. The struggle began in grim
earnest.
This was life —this grappling with strong forces,
this striving against dangerous odds. All his life he
had taken risks ; and found in the taking a zest that
more than compensated for the danger. Valoa, in
its turn, was shrouded in the scudding squalls ; they
seemed alone in an infinity of tossing black depths
and whipping spray. The roar of the waves crashing
over the reef seemed suddenly deafening. They were
driving through them, and with every moment it
seemed to Laurence the launch must be swamped and
overwhelmed by the great, rushing seas. If the engine
failed now, they were done. Gripping the wheel, he
strained forward, striving to pierce through the blind-
ing squalls passing over them. The launch seemed
to leap suddenly out of the boiling waters. They were
over, and on the stretch of sea between. There was
still the Ruvia reef to cross, and the last vivid lights
were flickering out of the sky. Night was almost
upon them.
Normally it took from half to three-quarters of
an hour to cross the stretch of open sea between the
Valoa and Ruvia reefs. But on this night of storm,
with the screaming wind behind them and the launch
going at its highest speed, they did it in very much
less time. It was a headlong, desperate rush over
black, rearing waves towards the now visible, now
shrouded, looming black mass that was Ruvia. They
were crossing Ruvia reef, the black loom of the high
island, plain now, before them. They could see
fitful blown lights flickering on the dark shore.
Sheer luck had brought them safe into the home
anchorage.
“Done it, by God! ” said Laurence with exulta-
tion. Good man, Semeli, We’ve done it.”
But on shore, after he had thoroughly satisfied
himself that all was in order, that all precautions had
been taken against another night of storm, the high
mood of exultation left him. Soaked through with
rain and salt water, stiff with cold, he staggered at
last to his bed, while outside the hurricane, unleashed
at last, rode the world. And there the thought of
Elena, of Vivien, rushed back on him ; and he knew
in anguish that his house was desolate and he a man
facing age and estranged from those who should have
been nearest and dearest.
Chapter XVII.
TO Dick and Ruve, whose life together had begun
to such stormy elemental music, the crowding
events of a few short days seemed almost incred-
ible. So much to happen in so short a time: death
and grief—inevitable change. Ruve cried out in
pity:
“Poor Denny! He was so young! Mr. Harley,
too. But, oh! poor Denny— it will break his mother’s
heart. He was all the world to her. I must go to
her, Dick. There may be something I can do for
her.”
Another, too, she knew would grieve for Denny.
That grief would be no less bitter in that it must be
kept a hidden thing.
In storm-shattered Valoa the hot sunlight lay
intensely on the road, strewn still with debris left by
the hurricane. At the gateless entrance to the Bennett
house a woolly black dog lay scarcely stirring as
Dick and Ruve paused there together.
“Shall I come in with you?” the man asked.
“No, Dick. I think I’ll see her alone first,” Ruve
answered. “Come back for me.”
She stepped into the wind-ravaged compound and
stood still a moment. Dick was already out of sight;
she stood in a place intimately bound up with her
childhood. For a moment she had the curious im-
pression that time had actually flowed back; she
seemed herself a child again, barefoot, bareheaded,
in this very spot. She had but to listen a moment and
she would hear Adela’s caressing voice calling her in
from the sun or hear the gossip of the women as they
washed in the shifting light and shadow. But the
place was almost deserted now, all the exuberant life
that had overbrimmed it had gone: the sun-blistered,
shabby house was desolate.
She shook off the thronging memories, and went
forward in the still heat and brightness.
By the door of the reeded bure in which Mrs.
Bennett lay wrinkled Moga crouched. She put out a
fumbling, uncertain hand and touched the girl’s dress.
“The marama does not sleep. Go in Ruve,” she said
in a thin whisper. Ruve, half-afraid of what she
might see, stepped across the threshold.
Coming out of the intense sunlight into that
dimmed place was like stepping into thick, warm twi-
light ; there was the pungent smell of some medicine
mingled with the staling tang of eau-de-Cologne and
island oil. The odors seemed to mingle and become
one. She saw the dim shape of Adela Bennett through
the heavy purple screen that fell shrouding the low,
sagging, matted bed, and a thin hand came wavering
out of it—she heard Adela’s terribly altered voice
that had grown thin and dry as if all the warm vitality
had been drained from her.
“Ruve, my dear! I knew you would come.
Come close to me, my dear!”
She sat down by the bed kissed Adela
Bennett’s hot forehead, held the wavering, tormented
hands.
“My Denny drowned! My boy! My boy
Denny!” She said his name over and over as though
the saying of it were some bitter comfort. “Oh,
Ruve, Ruve! I never thought to live when he was
dead.”
“You have your other children still,” said Ruve,
faltering. “Flora and Bessie. Lola.”
(Continued on page 50.)


r^CoMPARABt^
W'
*
m
Stromberg
•Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Cl
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Are You a Punter?:-
PUNTERS
ARE
MUGS
BY
C.W.JUDD.
IT is not very often that I am seen in
the paddock at Randwick, and how
it comes about is this. I go south for
the Melbourne Cup, for an urger is very
stiff indeed if he doesn’t clean up a few
kopecks over his expenses at the Cup,
what with dad and the family*being down
from Rumbletumble and being quite
anxious to hear the latest stable infor-
mation. In case you have not heard of
Lefty Riley I’ll tell you.
I am not one of those mugs that drum
a dozen horses in the one race, for I take
my profession very seriously indeed, and
I consider it very dishonest tojiand out
more than three steeds for the one event.
Crime doesn’t pay, what with racecourse
Ds. being so inquisitive and prevalent.
Being too conscientious makes my work
very arduous, when you consider rising
before most people get to bed to watch
training gallops and keep-
ing up to date with the
form sheets.
I don’t give out any
horse that I wouldn’t back
myself if I were so
foolish as to think I could
beat the game, and I
think that none of my
clients should wail about
the small percentage they
toss me as a present to
the jock. But if there is
one thing I do not do
more than another it is to
place any of my own
hard-earned shekels with
the books on any hairy
goat whatever.
Conditions being such,
you would be surprised to
see me on the Hill on Derby Day
placing the roll on Fidelity. But when
I hear the books calling five to one
against this filly I see that this is much
too good to be whispered round the
course, as it will be very much of a
miracle if the rest of the field is in sight
when her number goes up. Moreover,
I know that she would be two to one on
if this race were run in civilisation. So
I help myself to two hundred pounds to
forty before she shorts to five to two.
And the judge says Fidelity wins by three
lengths, which means seven lengths, going
away.
I think to myself that this is very much
better than depending on charity, for
when did a punter go to the pocket for
more than a fiver for me to slip to the
hoop, even when the books shuddered
and burst into tears when they saw the
ticket? Besides, after the race, Darcy,
the big racecourse D., edges up to me
and says “I see you have had quite a
win, Lefty.” I plead guilty.
“Mr. Riley to you.”
“I hope you won’t find it necessary
to put the bite on any citizen here on
the course,” he says, “for personally I
am very tired of you mugs from Sydney,
and if there should be any trouble you
will be in both ends and the middle of
it. I am not very fond of you, Lefty,
and if you are wise I think you’ll buy
tickets with your own money.” And that
is what Melbourne does to a man who
is honest.
SO I decide it isn’t worth while being
charitable in a town like this, and in
future I will take the profits myself and
not distribute them among the poor. By
the last race on Steeplechase Day I can
see I have made a very wise decision,
for I’ve made nearly enough money to
pay off the war debt, and the books are
clamoring to pay my fare back to Syd-
ney. Tommy the Tout and the rest of
the gang are on the train
the night I go back, and
you can imagine they are
very much disconcerted
to realise that I am travel-
ling first-class with a
sleeper from Albury, and
that, furthermore, I do not
wish lo indulge in poker
or any such games of
chance.
Tommy the Tout is
very annoyed, but I have
made up my mind I will
take a permanent holiday
from such company, for
if I am known in Mel-
bourne they will soon be a
wake-up in Sydney, and it
will not do for me to be
seen with bad charac-
ters; otherwise I will never go far
in the sporting world. I figure out that
after another fortnight I will be able to
buy up Marabou and start a stable of
my own. And if there is one thing I do
not want when I am an owner it is
people like Tommy the Tout hanging
round for information that they will use
to defraud the public.
So when I get back I give up the
urging game, and start patronising the
lawn instead of the Leger. I wear a very
green suit that I have had made, green
being a lucky color ; and, indeed, I am
what a pianist would call a symphony in
green, all except the suede shoes, which, I
am told, don’t come in that shade except
you buy an X.O.S. female pair. I also
buy a new pair of glasses that set me
back twenty notes ; but now I can notice
the tactics on the back of the course and
the way the boys fight for position.
Well, now I am a punter, I have many
intricate problems to resolve, so you can
judge I am not very pleased when
Tommy the Tout comes whispering in
my ear just when I’ve got the first race
down to one of two. I cover my wallet
with one hand, but otherwise take no
notice, and pretty soon he stops whis-
pering, and there is a pregnant silence.
“Lefty Riley,” he says at last, and
grabs my hand affectionately.
“Mr. Riley to you, Tout,” I shoot back
crisply. “Furthermore, I am in no need
whatever of any alleged information you
may possess; and why you are allowed
to mix with the aristocracy in this re-
serve I do not know.” I shook him off.
“Go back to the hoi polloi on the flat,”
I finish. “I have my name to think of,
and I cannot afford to be seen with
you.”. I come up for breath.
“Give me time to work that last one
out,” begs the Tout; then suddenly he
stiffens.
“There she is,” he hisses.
“There who is?” I ask him. He points
out a dame in a green
dress, and I am free to
confess that she is very
beautiful indeed, and I
can’t help thinking that
it is quite a coincidence
that we should both
choose the one color,
which would not happen
once in a thousand.
“That frail,” said the Tout, “was toss-
ing money round like confetti at Rose-
hill last week, and I don’t think she
knows a horse from a poley cow.”
“Evidently she got her information
from you,” I says, very nasty.
“But' listen, Lefty,” he pleads, “you
could shake her down just like that. You
look the real thing in that green suit,
and”
I wave my hand. “I don’t understand
you, Tout, but I do not appreciate your
line of talk. I hope you don’t consider
I am an urger. I will probably be intro-
duced to the lady by the clerk of the
course later. Now you must excuse me,
for I have many commissions to place
before the call of the card.” I do not
forget 1 am in the paddock, and as I
leave him I lift my green hat courteously.
I WANDER round to the ring and take
a hundred pounds to twenty Phantom
in the first, and come back to the stand
as the horses are lining up at the post.
It is quite by chance that I am standing
next to the green lady, but I cannot
help noticing how well we look together.
Then I forget everything else, for the
barrier goes up, and about two seconds
later I can see that I can tear my ticket
up, because Phantom, which ran Sky
Rocket to half a head the week before,
and has been burning up the training
track since, is so far behind that they
ought to pick
him up in the
ambulance.
As they make
the turn into the
straight I see a
white jacket with
green diamonds
streaking up on
the outside, and
without knowing
it I says Glacier
will win. At that
the girl in green
starts jumping up
and down yelling
out “Glacier!
Glacier! ” and I
think “Hullo, you must have won a
pot, because Glacier is write your own
ticket anywhere.” Well, Glacier’s number
So far behind.
“Left my bag at home.”
is up before they find out what ran
second. The green lady turns to me and
says “Did he win?”
“Lady,” I says, “if they’d started him
in the next race he would still have won
this one. But you must have won quite
an amount,” I says, “because the odds
they were laying against that horse
sounded like Don Bradman’s score
against the ladies’ college third eleven.”
“Oh, no,” she sighs. “It was very
unfortunate. You see, I left my bag at
home, and daddy won’t let me bet with-
out money ; what' do they call it?”
“On the nod,” I explain. “But how
will your old —your daddy know?”
“Oh, he is Barney Britton,” she comes
back, “and I always bet with him. He
says to keep it in the family.” I laugh
politely, thinking hard. She don’t look
like any bookmaker’s business.
“Did he toss out —that is, did he tell
you Glacier would win?”
“Yes,” she says, “and
he told me to be sure to
back Robin Hood in the
last. It’s very bad luck
for me that I have left my
bag at home, for other-
wise I would have put
five pounds on Glacier
and won ever so much.”
Well, I tell her I wish
we had met before, which would have
saved me putting twenty notes on
Phantom, which is a horse I could come
in off grass and outrun myself. Then
we go down and have some lunch, and
pretty soon I find myself going into the
pocket for her on the second. Sure
enough she goes to Barney Britton and
says “What price Eclaire, daddy?”
“Six to one to you,” he says, smiling,
and I gasp audibly, because fours is the
best in sight, and she takes the odds to
a tenner, which is a fiver each. Eclaire
forgot to get left at the post; anyway, it
came home, and the way I figured it on
the odds I made a profit if I gave her
the fiver.
Well, missing out much of what hap-
pened after that, we come to the last
winning about 40 greens apiece. I feel
that my luck is in, and Robin Hood is
six to one.
“Elaine,” I say—for we had now got
down to cases —“I’m going to sink my
ship on Robin Hood, for I have here a
hundred of the best to rap on him at sixes.”
“Oh, Lefty,” she comes back, “I would
not have you put so much on a horse
I told you in case he should lose.”
“I wouldn’t wish it said I’m not a
sport,” I says with dignity. “I will also
place ten pounds for you.”
“It would be a very much better idea
if I put the money on with daddy,” she
returns. “I am sure he will give us
better odds.”
Well, I’ll say this for old man
Britton ; he is a sport also. When
Elaine waltzes up to him and puts
the question he says sevens. He
turns very green when she slaps
down eleven tens, but he does a
hasty swallow, then writes out the
ticket. I let Elaine hold the
ticket for luck, and we come back
to watch the line-up.
VERY shortly after the start it
would seem that we need all
the luck that is going, and the best
I can hope is that the hoop should
drop dead and not fall off. It is
a ten-furlong race, see, and Robin
Hood is pulled bade to last, and
is not even on the rails, but running most
peculiar very wide out. I wish I didn’t
have such a fine pair of glasses, for at


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
11m y ■ ii vl l v l v
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
A
W
mil
m
: A
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne.
The Largest Circulations
In Queensland.
THE
COURIER-MAIL
The net average cir-
culation for October,
1935, was 69,061 copies
daily. Here is by far
the largest circulation in the Queensland daily field and
the essential basis of any Queensland campaign.
THE
SUNDAY MAIL
Second only to “The
Courier-Mail” in cir-
culation, “The Sunday
Mail” enjoyed a net
circulation of 64,686 copies per issue for October, 1935.
Obviously it must be the second medium selected for any
Queensland campaign.
Enquire about the Combined Advertising Rates .
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
the moment I don’t wish for a close
view of events. He is still last when
Atlantic fights clear of the bunch half-
way down the straight, to lead half a
length, and I’ve just said a last good-
bye to my coin when he comes with a
late dash, and cuts them down as if
they were rocking-horses, and goes on
to win easily. I come to as the number
goes up, and say, “Well, I may as well
cash in on our ticket.”
She turns to me considerably haughty.
“I can’t imagine what you are talking
about,” she says.
“That’s quite a joke,” I comes back.
“Still, let’s wait for the flag.”
“Please do not annoy
me further,” she tells
me, very icy, and a big
man comes and stands
beside me.
“Is there any trouble
here, Miss Britton?” he
asks. “I am a race-
course detective, and this
Lefty Riley is quite well
known in these parts.”
“This man insists that
I have a ticket of his,”
she says.
“If you would like to
prefer a charge, Miss
Britton,” he begins, very
eager. She shook her head. “Oh, no.
If you would keep him here till I col-
lect on this race.”
You can imagine I am very much
disconcerted at such unexpected develop-
“Is there any trouble here?”
ments, but I am persuaded to stand still
for quite a time, and then the D. escorts
me to the gate. I see Barney Britton
getting into his car, and, being very
annoyed, I breeze over to ask him why
he works when he has a daughter such
as that. Barney looks at me very hard.
“I have made many mistakes in my time,
Lefty,” he says, “but I have not yet
committed the error of paternity. There-
fore I fail to get the gist of your remarks.
Try it in French,” he says.
“But she called you daddy,” I yelps.
He shook his head. “We have been
called worse things than that,” he returns
sorrowfully. “I appreciate the compli-
ment, while denying any
responsibility. Mean-
while,” he says, “I am
a busy man, and I am
afraid I must cut this
pleasant chat short. You
have been shook down,
Lefty.”
So that was what I
got for turning punter,
for all punters are mugs.
I have sold my green
suit for something more
silent, because an urger
doesn’t want to stand
out in a crowd. The
thing I do not forget is
the big man, Elaine and Tommy the
Tout riding past in a taxi waving gaily.
I hope for the Tout’s sake they have
gone very far away, for I don’t think he
will care to meet me again.
A Feeling Sketch:—
CHAPTER ENDING
OUTSIDE, a shining sedan shot
through the open gateway and
braked smoothly to a halt. Mrs.
Marvin, her keen face crumpled with
emotion, turned away from the window
with a sob.
A knock at the back door startled her
from pained grieving. With an effort
to assume her usual controlled poise, she
moved to answer it, only to abandon all
pretence as the door opened.
“Chris! ”
Relief, affectionate welcome and some
deeper, more poignant emotion mingled
in her vibrant cry. Wet-eyed, her out-
stretched hands those of a child mutely
begging comfort, she came to him.
Chris Bentley, neat, kindly, subdued
by the crowding problems of life with
which he never quite successfully coped,
caught her impulsively in his arms. Her
head drooped to his shoulder, and she
cried quietly but unrestrainedly there.
He, all his dormant chivalry quickened
by her unexpected breakdown, held her
close, and soothed her with vague sym-
pathetic incoherences.
She clung to him, all feminine weak-
ness now. Could this, he wondered,
really be the woman who had so bravely
borne the shock of her husband’s
suicide ; who through four years of
widowhood had so competently managed
the farm?
She hadn’t made a success of it, cer-
tainly ; but who could, handicapped by
that mortgage and such seasons as they’d
had? And now, her daughter married,
her two boys deserting the farm for bet-
ter jobs, what could she do but sell out?
He couldn’t help ; his own place was all
he could manage. To-day must be
specially hard for her, too: women felt
things so, and to leave her home after
so many years . . .
“Oh, Chris!” She freed herself gently.
"You’ll think me such a baby. Just for
the minute—but I’m all right again.
Only a few hours, and then” with
a dewy smile at him.
'And then” —his voice was sobered yet
thrilled by the solemn contract it re-
affirmed—“we start afresh, together.
Only a little while, but I wish you’d had
Grace here to-day.”
She sighed. She couldn’t tell him how
it had hurt her when her only daughter,
antagonised, resentful, had welcomed
marriage as an escape from home and
its now-hateful associations.
"She couldn’t do more than lima has
done for me,” she told him quickly, “so
why bring her back to upset her? I’d
have liked Lew and Bart, though”—her
forced smile grew wistful—“but it would
mean taking them from their work. You
and Phil oh, Chris, your children are
lovely to me, and you” Her eyes
were again misty.
A car honked importantly outside, and
Bentley, with a last reassuring handclasp,
moved to the door.
That 11 be the auctioneer. Don’t
worry, dear, m see to things for you.”
HOW good he was! she
thought gratefully. His
neighborly kindness had
helped so much in those
first dark days, and now —
well, he, too, was
widowed, lonely, so . . .
Of course, she didn’t feel
towards him as she had
felt long ago about Joe, but, seeing how
that had ended, perhaps this warm
affection, this autumnal glow, promised
better for the new venture before her.
Faster and faster now cars streamed
along the road, to park three and four
deep under the trees and about the house
paddock. In significant contrast were
the hacks and buggies of those whom
depression had sent “back to the horse.”
Mrs. Marvin, all traces of tears hastily
removed, straightened her shoulders and
went out to face her acquaintances in
that shifting crowd for whom all her
chattels now lay exposed. When voices
hushed at her coming, she guessed of
what the talk had been, and winced in-
wardly, even as with quiet composure
she went from group to group.
Where machinery had been cleared
from one end of a thatched shelter a
caterer deftly unpacked, so that one deal
table was soon set with cups and saucers
and covered piles of food, the other with
shining glasses and alluring ranks of
bottles. A helper, already in shirt-
sleeves, carried in two kerosene-buckets
of steaming water from the copper he
had requisitioned, and a capable middle-
aged waitress stood ready for the first
call upon her services.
“Now, then, gentlemen!” bellowed the
auctioneer, and groups of men closed
round the waggon he had mounted as a
temporary rostrum. “What am I offered
for this waggon in perfect order? You
know it, gentlemen; you’ve seen the
loads it’s carted, and you know the care
taken of it. In waggons like this your
pioneer grandfathers carried their
families and all their goods- and chattels
into the bush ; and in those same wag-
gons their grandchildren still cart their
sixteen-bag crops to-day. Built to last,
gentlemen ; built to last fifty, sixty—even
a hundred years. And this one, only
thirty years old, is practically new. What
am I offered? What am I offered?”
From face to face around that circle
his quick eye roved, alert for any signal,
and slowly, almost shyly, the bids
mounted, forced upwards by his timely
jests and witty asides, for these men were
all old sale acquaintances.
Mrs. Marvin choked down a sob and
moved out of range of his strident voice.
The waggon had to go —the waggon that
had brought her, a bride, and all their
new furniture out here before even one
paddock was cleared. That waggon had
played its part in their first happy,
struggling years, and the auctioneer’s
words started a rush of memories that
threatened to overwhelm her in tears.
She hurried further out of earshot; she
must not give way here, before all these
people.
Thankfully she waylaid plump old Mrs.
Dent, obviously primed with the gossip
of weeks, and let her steady flow of chat-
ter sweep away disquieting remem-
brances. Others joined them with so
much to say that only dimly now she
heard the auctioneer’s monologue, punc-
tuated by occasional bursts of laughter
BY MALINPA LEWIS.


BACKACHE
Makes you Look and Feel so Old
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE
But act quickly. Get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills from your chemist, and take them as directed. This
is the right thing to do, for De Witt’s Pills contain ingredients
which enable your kidneys to extract the harmful uric acid from
your system —just as Nature intended they should —and when
you get rid of this harmful uric acid, your back will cease aching.
Nothing else will do. You cannot obtain the same results
by any other means. Rubbing with embrocations or liniments
would probably aggravate the trouble, and add to your suffering.
But relief quickly follows the use of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and you know the pain is not likely to return,
because, by taking De Witt’s Pills, you have got rid of the cause.
ACT QUICKLY
Don’t wait, or the pain will get worse. Don’t experiment with
things you think may do you good. Get the remedy that has
been used with success all over the world for nearly fifty years.
Heed the good advice of those who have already
used the remedy.
Watch for such symptoms as pumness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs,
swollen feet or ankles, foul breath,
scalding pains, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede attacks of
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica, Lum-
bago or serious Kidney Trouble, and
much suffering and expense may be
saved by quickly getting a box of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, price
3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6
from your chemist to-day.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
WVJtV ITTO
iiDir^Arm
■■liilip
#
£&\#T
WXri&S
y-::\ c
K :
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of De Witt’s Pills to-night, and
in the morning you will see, feel and know
for certain that they are doing you good.
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
and by his high-pitched appeal: “Going,
going”
They had drifted, she found presently,
towards the stable, and were caught up
again in the main current of the sale.
A few bright feminine frocks and hats
broke the dark monotony of male attire
round the rails of the stableyard. The
auctioneer scrambled up on a post just
as Chris Bentley led out an old horse.
Joe had been proud of his team, but
they had been growing old, even be-
fore . . . Mrs. Marvin sighed. She hated
to sell the faithful old things, but senti-
ment was a luxury not for her when
three others claimed a share of this sale’s
proceeds. She must be sensible; and
she succeeded so well that many won-
dered she could face it out so calmly—
a ha'rd woman, surely. That disapprov-
ing judgment she felt in the carious
glances upon her, and lifted her chin al-
most defiantly. Did they expect her to
bare her racked, quivering heart to their
thoughtless eyes?
ALMOST she betrayed that secret suffer-
ing when young Phil Bentley, so dis-
turbingly like her own absent Bart, led
out old Fancy, the hack that had carried
all three children to school. She had not
been ridden for over a year —not since
Bart had gone to join Lew —and she
stepped out briskly, spirit and breeding
in every sleek line. Those knowledg-
able men on the rails, though, knew her
to be aged, and as Mrs. Marvin hurried
away, the auctioneer’s brilliant inven-
tions of pedigree and performance mock-
ing her, she knew, but without regret,
there would be no buyer for Fancy.
The car would be next, and she hadn’t
yet arranged ... A suddenly opened
gap in a distant group showed her the
very man. Bill Stevens would manage it
for her. He’d understand, without em-
barrassing explanations, that the car was
to be a sort of wedding gift to Chris.
What a relief to settle it in half a dozen
sentences! Then, to cheat both thought
and memory, she carried old Granny
Weston off to afternoon-tea.
But Granny wanted a cupboard, so
they were soon back with the crowd at the
house. The furniture showed worn and
shabby in the pitiless sunlight. She
looked from it to where the dry summer
and autumn had left nothing of garden
to be trampled by these invaders.
No longer need she struggle to keep
alive a few hardy shrubs in soil that
baked brick-hard. There was nothing
here . . . Suddenly she saw that crocus
spearheads had broken through that
parched crust and were opening golden
chalices to the sun.
Gracie’s crocuses! She must not leave
them behind her. Once again memory
showed her the chubby girl laboriously
digging her little plot and setting her
precious bulbs. How foolish to cry when
Gracie had forgotten! Was it only
mothers who were fated to remember
and, remembering, weep?
She moved restlessly. The auctioneer
had become intolerable ; his jovially per-
suading voice and his sly jokes on the
lots he offered a cruelty not to be borne.
She hated the sale. Why had she ever
consented to the humiliation of showing
the public the shifts and shabbiness of
her private life?
Commonsense soon checked her futile
resentment. She needed her share of
the money if she were not to go empty-
handed to Chris, dear old Chris, who,
with scant worldly goods, yet offered her
so much.
Thank goodness, the furniture was
sold at last! Only the poultry and the
few cattle remained now. Though the
chickens were mostly in the awkward
half-fledged stage and the hens had be-
gun to moult, the turkeys ought to sell
well. She had never had a finer lot;
but, of course, there wasn’t so much
money about nowadays.
She was pressing forward for another
look at her turkeys when a woman close
on her left hand nudged her companion
and pointed to one side.
“That’s where the fowlhouse used to
be,” she whispered urgently. “Of course,
they moved it after he shot himself
An awful mess, they say” 7
The incautious voice broke off, warned
by a smothered gasp and a glimpse of a
white, haunted face. Too late the
speaker crimsoned with shamed peni-
tence.
Blindly, unseeingly, Mrs. Marvin fled.
Even after four years a chance touch
on that unhealed wound could stir all
the old torturing ache. People couldn’t,
wouldn’t forget, not when they visited
the spot, and she . . .
She bit back an agonised groan. Cruel,
cruel to bring it all back so! Though
that woman hadn’t thought, couldn’t
know she would overhear.
The shadow would always be there,
dark across her life ; but to-morrow —
her lips quivered with thankfulness —
to-morrow she would be where nothing
need ever remind her.
GRADUALLY she won back control.
and presently was speeding friends
who sought her out with good-byes and
good wishes.
Faster and faster, as they had gathered
a few hours.earlier■ the cars streamed
away. The fruit-hawker s almost empty
truck down by the gate told of good
business done there, too. A carrier
thrust a high-chair between a plough and
a harrow-cart, and twitched a heavy
twenty-foot swing into a safer position.
Horses plodded off behind their new
owners, stray dogs barked, and a man
thrust a crosscut saw into a car beside
a protesting woman.
The level sunrays made a golden haze
of the stirred-up dust, and quiet came
stealing back over the paddocks as the
last car drew away. The dreadful day
was over at ] ast
To h through the desolation the alt
, , ’ „ •>
had made came Chris Bentley a smile
on his tired kindly face. W - answer-
m § smile she put her hand in his, hers
a heep, welling emotion that found no
words -
Hand in hand, together as they would
henceforth be, they turned their backs
on the old sad chapter ended, and faced
the brighter promise of the new.
Graphic Story of the Air:—
TIMOR CROSSIG.
BY ANDREW STEWART.
EVERY lurch and plunge of the
machine threatened to be its last,
The compass never showed the same
reading for two consecutive moments.
They lere flying blind. The hail, like a
fusillade of lead was blasted back bv
Sf propellers Only the Iwin circles of
nhch w'actnS rfthf St relieVed ““
P in sphe of Nicky Barrel's superhuman
efforts at the controls, the ’plane gyrated
madly. The needle of the bank-and-turn
swung left, then right. Halliday, his co-
pilot, crouched beside him, his eyes glued
on the instruments.
Halliday’s face was strained as he
looked up and pointed out through the
Str “mt n isT k sSd! gla ttarboard motor's
itn n fiftv to n?w'’ r ' ReVS ' riBh ‘ 10
Nicky Barret said nothing. As he
fought for altitude he was thinking about
the sharks; and Nicky was dreadfully
afraid of sharks. Someone had told him
there were more man-eating sharks in
the Timor than in all the rest of the seas
put together,
“Altitude seven thousand,” recited
Halliday. “If we haven’t turned right
round, we’re just about half-way over.
But we’ve Buckley’s chance of keeping
her up if that motor conks.”
Another hammering gust, more savage
than any yet, caught the machine, batter-
ing her down. Nicky, his feet pumping
furiously on the rudder controls and his
eyes on the turn-
indicator, snapped
her up again. An-
other shock drove
them up. The com-
pass oscillated
wildly. Nicky nodded
back towards the
passengers’ compartment and said Won-
der what old man Tubman thinks of
, • i
lliday grmne . f
°ne *■"«' *** s ™‘ h, " B e T'm
y° u an me > Nick y > but tbe saarks ll
it’s, Christmas when they get old
lashed white against the glass,
The screaming wind drowned the snarl
ot pr u P6 J!f rs ‘.i far** hpnpath
■"«*y shuddered and his facei bene
lsor p . f p . '
stj ;? ve to f bnn £ so that
down-thrust; fought for;altitude so that
wbea the motot fina y •
would have something to come and go
“•'Blast old Tubman," he grated throngh
Polity in spite of the leather reports,
Curse his urgent business!”
Nicky Barret was sweating—partly
from his exertions, and partly hom
something else. But he couldn t help his
unholy dread of sharks ; Halliday and all
the other pilots knew about it—joked
about it. That was why Halliday had
mentioned the sharks a few minutes
before. . „
“Revs, back to a bare six-htty, said
Halliday.
“I heard her hissing a while ago.
replied Nicky. “Gaskets probably
gone. Either that or the manifold has
shaken loose and worked back on the
studs.”


IT’S A FACT!
*
electrically
tempered blades are sharper
The amazing thing about Gillette's new electrical
tempering process is that, although the steel at the
sides is extra hard, the special process softens the
centre without affecting in any way those harder
edges. Actually, two different temperings in one
blade.
- , \
The effect is that the incredibly hard steel at the
sides can be honed to a keener edge than ever
before, yet the centre of the blade is sufficiently
flexible to bend to the razor. Result—not only
closer and cleaner shaves than you've ever had
before, but also more shaves per blade. Ask for
Blue Gillettes—they fit any Gillette razor that has
ever been made.
PACKET OF FIVE, 27-
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES KS „„
“No show of her taking up again,
Nicky?”
"With a loose manifold? Ask your-
self, Bert. I’d cut that motor out if we
could fly on one. I’m a bit afraid of fire
getting to the carburettors.”
Another squall tore at the machine,
savage enough to rip the wings off her ;
but the wings held, and, as long as they
held and the motor kept going, there was
still hope. For ten hectic minutes Nicky
battled the screaming gale.
"God’s truth!” Halliday said hoarsely.
*‘Regular typhoon! Still holding five
hundred revs. Altitude down to six
thousand.”
TTHEY glanced out into the black night.
* One of those fiery circles would fade
out presently—they both knew that.
They also knew that, when they were
eventually forced down and the machine
touched water, she would sink before
they could cut away the heavy engines.
Even without the motors, she could never
weather this.
"Damn!” said Nicky explosively.
“Getting into this mess just when I’d
almost persuaded old Goodson to give
me a ground job.”
Halliday laughed.
"You’ll never get that, Nicky. The old
man might kid you along, but he’ll keep
you in the air.”
And Halliday spoke the truth. Some
pilots are made, but Barret was a born
pilot. And it wasn’t the flying game that
Nicky hated, but the long sea hops and
the sharks that waited several thousand
feet beneath his landing gear.
The buzzer rang suddenly, but neither
of them heeded it. It rang again in-
sistently, followed by a hammering on
the bulkhead. Nicky nodded back.
"Better see what he wants.”
Halliday crawled back to the sliding
door of the other compartment. Nicky
battled the storm that grew in intensity
with every passing minute. Hadn’t the
remotest idea where they were. Compass
useless. Only thing to drive blindly
ahead, depending on the “bank-and-turn.”
Might be better at dawn, but dawn was
a long way off. How long would the
motor keep going? Everything depended
on that.
Halliday returned, his face bleeding
through being flung against the bulk-
head.
“Says to turn back if it’ll ease things.
And we’re on a bonus if we can scrape
through.”
Nicky found time to grin.
“Even his millions won’t buy him a
pardon from hell this time.”
A ZIGZAG of lightning ripped the
f* sky from horizon to zenith, afford-
ing them a momentary glimpse of the
rain—a solid wall of white water that
rattled like machine-gun bursts against
the metal fuselage. The drone of the
motors —one full-throated, the other
subdued —came to them faintly between
the gusts. Again the sky turned blue.
Halliday stared at the revolution-
counter, watching the needle creeping
back.
“Look, Nicky! She’s going—she’s
finished! ”
The red glow died slowly, leaving only
blackness to starboard. Another trickle
of lightning showed them the stationary
prop. The port engine roared on,
though half-heartedly, it seemed, with-
out its companion’s assistance.
“Take over, Bert!” said Nicky. “Fly
her, can’t you?”
“Sure. But what for?” •
“I’m going out to fix that motor.”
“You can’t do it!”
“I’m going to try, anyhow.”
Halliday licked his dry lips.
“You keep on, Nicky. I’ll go.”
“Shut up! I know every bolt an’ nut.
You don’t. This is my job.”
“You couldn’t get out there in fine
weather. And if it’s a gasket”
“Then it’s no go. But if it’s only the
manifold I’ll tighten her back.”
“But that engine’ll be red-hot—shel-
tered by the cowling. We’ll be down
before she cools off.”
"Don’t argue! All set?”
“Yes. You’re mad, Nicky. You know
as well as I do you can’t do it.”
Barret, eased himself back from the
controls ; staggered in the reeling cabin
as he searched for tools in the ditty-box.
Halliday was too busy flying her to see
Nicky go, but he felt the blast of icy
air ; heard the door slam behind him.
He glanced at the altimeter. Losing
height; losing it fast.
A momentary panic gripped him. Ex-
cept for Tubman —and Tubman didn’t
seem to count —he was alone; would
have to die alone. Nicky would go first,
of course. He almost envied Nicky.
In a blaze of lightning Halliday saw
Nicky clinging to a strut, one arm raised
to protect his eyes from the slashing rain.
The machine lurched violently, straight
over on her wing-tip, caught in some
terrific thrust that hammered her down.
Halliday cried out aloud, cursing him-
self. He juggled frantically with the
elevators ; felt the wings grip on solid
air. She was coming up again slowly.
Was she? There was no horizon,
nothing to go by.
He felt as though he had murdered
Nicky. He would be gone, of course.
Couldn’t have survived that last plunge.
But he had the machine under control
now, boring straight into the black wall.
Tubman came through the doorway,
crawling on his hands and knees, his face
dead-white, the broken safety-strap
dangling from his middle.
“Hell of a passage! ” he said, grinning
feebly. “Couldn’t stick it in there alone.
Where —where’s your mate?”
“Out there . . . fixing the motor . . .
if I haven’t tossed him off.”
Tubman lay clinging to the fastenings
of the pilot’s chair. The lightning flamed
again, slashing the inky sky, leaping
along the wires and licking the metal
fuselage. In the blue blaze Halliday saw
Nicky again—half-way along the wing,
six feet below and behind the starboard
engine. The lightning died with a final
burst. The red halo of the pprt motor
shone out again.
BARRET steadied himself on the wing.
The singing wires ate into his hands.
The driving rain, intensified a hundred-
fold by the propeller’s blast, flayed the
flesh from his face. The wind screamed
past the struts, battered at the machine,
which rocked with a side-to-side motion.
Waiting till the machine was compara-
tively level, he stepped along the slip-
pery surface, taking the wires hand-over-
hand. The ’plane tilted sharply up, then
down. The wind plucked him free from
the wires. He slithered down, his hands
clutching for a hold. He stopped against
a strut, and clung there, waiting for the
’plane to hit the sea.
Halliday must have lost control com-
pletely. He glimpsed the cabin lights
straight up and above him. The light-
ning showed him the engine, just ahead
and above. Halliday had apparently re-
gained control.
Nicky stood up and cautiously felt for
the wires above his head. The nose
dipped, leaving him swinging, nothing
but the Timor beneath his feet. The
slender steel cut through the flesh of
his hands ; it was only the bones that
held.
It was almost as though Halliday could
see, and made the next movement to suit
Barret. The machine went over. The
wires turned in Nicky’s hands. The
motor was below. He dropped straight
on to the cowling.
He clung to the valve-gear until the
machine righted herself. And there he
lay gasping, the wind screaming in his
face, the blinding water striving to wash
him off.
He lay there, once he was securely in
position, unconsciousness claiming him
slowly; but he fought it back. He
visualised the mechanism of the engine—
the exact positions of certain bolts that
secured the manifold.
If the gasket were gone, he’d just let
go. Must find out first, though. He’d
have to get busy . . . hadn’t much time.
No time, perhaps. Must have dropped a
ton of altitude in that last plunge.
He felt almost comfortable. There
was a certain amount of warmth from
the engine. Mustn’t go to sleep.
Good old Bert! Doing fine! Perhaps
she was clearing. Didn’t seem like it,
though. Worse . . .
He reached down, and withdrew his
hand quickly. The exhausts blistered his
fingers.
«1 SAW him, I tell you,” Tubman
* yelled, pointing through the glass,
“in that last flash!”
Halliday shook his head incredu-
lously ; then, in another blaze of light-
ning, he saw for himself.
Nicky was crouched close in against
the cabin, his arms outstretched on the
wires, like a man crucified: tortured
face, staring eyes, his lips moving—•
shouting, he might have been.
Halliday looked at the altimeter.
Zero.
He spun the starter. The motor
coughed. The starter whined again. A
few staccato barks. Then the engine
burst into steady, growling life.
Halliday fed her the gun ; slowly at
first, then wide out. The ’plane lifted,
battling the gale with strength renewed.
The twin exhaust-fires shone out again.
Barret came through the cabin door,
lurching blindly, groping with his
He collapsed to his knees, gibbering, froth
on his lips and blood on his face.
“Start her, damn you!” he screamed
at Halliday. “Why the hell don’t you
start her? I can’t do anything! I’m
blind! ”
He tried to drag himself up, collapsed
again, and slept, stretched out on the
cabin floor.
“Good God!” Tubman said hoarsely.
“Look at his hands!”
Halliday glanced across his shoulder,
and felt suddenly sick.
The motors droned on. The fury of
the storm died gradually. Then a rift
showed in the clouds ahead, and the stars
shone through.
HALLIDAY stepped into the office of
Amalgamated Skyways. Seth Good-
son spun round in his chair.
“Hullo, Halliday. Where’s Barret?”
Halliday sighed wearily.
“They’ve taken him across to the hos-
pital. We hit a hurricane or something
half-way over. Then one motor quit
on us. Nicky crawled out and fixed it.
Burnt himself . . . bad. It’ll be a day
or two before he flies again.”
“And when he does,” said Tubman,
who had stepped through the doorway,
“he’ll pilot my own private bus. And,
believe me—it won’t be over the water.”
The World of Little Wings.
When you and I went down the creek
we talked about important things
... art .. . fame . . . life . . . death . . .
but while you paused for me to speak
we found ourselves quite suddenly
within a world of wings!
A little world of busyness
as lyrical as wonder . . .
The tomtits plied the eucalyptus
flowers’ honey plunder.
And thornbills sweet and shy and brown
were mating where the bottlebrush
in crimson cascades floated down
upon the water’s moving hush.
The emerald of greenleeks flew,
with flash of crimson under-hue,
from hollow into hollow
of blue-gum spout,
and. in and out
the chirruping would follow
of baby parrots newly born . . .
A tiny wagtail, most forlorn,
was petrified with fear
because a lizard, grisly grey,
was following the dear . . .
Beside the creek,
Too rapt to speak,
the giant blue-gums shining
upon the world of little wings —
We watched the day declining.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


Introduced todau !
THE NSW 1936
FORD V O UTILITIES
Reflecting the world's demand for ultra-smartness and
passenger-car comfort PLUS generous load capacity and VS performance
mi
£9
|?ivS i ■,. •. '' %.
Safety Qlass All Round * Coupe Comfort * Stylish Streamlined
Bodies * Super Safety Brakes * Spacious Load Accommodation
1936 Ford V-8 Utilities all have an exclusive array of features and special equipment ( usually
available only at additional cost ) which add many pounds to their value. Make your own comparison:
Safety glass all round. «■ Front bumper and 4 ad-
justable double-acting hydraulic shock absorbers. *
Large capacity 6.00x16 tyres. * Bonderised non-
rusting mudguards bonnet and wheels. •> V-8
engine with dust-proof oil-bath air cleaner. *
Coupe Utilities are fitted with quarter windows,
wind-down rear window, centre-control adjustable
windscreen and clear vision ventilation windows in
doors, all of safety glass. * Adjustable seat and an
arm rest for the driver, two swivel type sun
visors and genuine leather trim. « Handsome
instrument panel has enclosed despatch box and
electric cigar lighter. «. All bodies have large
carrying capacity with steel outside panels and steel
skid strips on the floor. ♦ 1936 Ford V-8 Utilities
are now being displayed by your Ford dealer.
In a 'wide range of handsome models designed to meet the needs of:
Graziers, Wheatgrowers, Orchardists, Municipal Authorities and Tradesmen.
- <r
A BRITISH EMPIRE P RODUCT
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
-P-P. A U ST RALI A PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F49.30C
Contributors are reminded that, to
obtain payment for paragraphs, verses,
etc., they must cut out the same and
send them to the accountant, or indicate
them with pen-name and date of publi-
cation in some unmistakable way. This
has been the rule of The Bulletin
ever since its inception, and attention
has been drawn to it so often that there
is scant excuse for anyone not knowing
it. But apparently some of the newer
school of constributors don’t.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Old Roundsman”: Ex - governor
Bowen states that only one man in
the past 20 years has made a sue-
cessful escape from Pentridge. With a
f . , , ~ ,
companion he had held up a buggy near
Rutherglen in which the manager of a
mine and his mate were taking £l2OO for
the fortnight’s wages. The pair got clear
away with the loot, but were afterwards
captured in Melbourne. Both were con-
victed and received long sentences,
One made his escape during a par-
ticularly heavy fog, for which his friends
outside are believed to have waited for
months. Nothing definite was ever heard
of him again.
* * * *
“Burglar’s Improver”: Dere Bully-
teen— People are always singin’ out
. , , , . , ~ , ,
about young chaps gom on the dole
sooner than lermn to be tradesmen, but
wot about me? As I told yer a bit ago,
me boss was lumbered for tryin’ to get a
sub. out of an old Chow for the perlice
picnic, and I’m left on me lone tryin’ to
keep the bisness together till his member
gets the sentence redooced. Well, there’s
a young bloke with a bag wot goes to
the bank reglar, and I was just thinkin’
about gettin’ a bit of pepper and doin’
a grab job when I reads about a bloke
inventin’ a noo safety alarm bag wots
got one of them steam-whistle things in-
side of it, and starts lettin’ it orf dreckly
the bloke lets go of the handle. Goes on
three hours, that whistle, and you can’t
get to it with yer razor cos the bag’s
steel-lined. Maybe this cow’s got one
them bags. Could yer Service Depart-
™ent tel ?.” an t 1 to find out before
he goes takin a risk?
“O. W. Waireki”: The natives of our
Hawke’s Bay village held an election to
choose a Maori “mayor.” The two can-
didates, Hone and Henare, had a neck-
arid-neck struggle, Hone eventually pip-
P in S his opponent by one vote. When
rallied about the closeness of the con-
tesk the winner winked knowingly. “T’at’s
te best of having two wives,” he grinned,
* * * *
“Valerin”: Zane Grey is not the first
to put Bermagui on the map. Lament,
a young Sydney geologist, beat him to
it by more than half a century. Lament
an / a couple
of companions visited Ber-
magUj on a scientific expedition. They
were seen no more, and the “Bermagui
Mystery”—a sensation in those days—
remains unsolved. I still have the im-
pression of Lamont, who was a visitor
to my father’s property in Riverina, as
a gentle, kindly man.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Mention of J. Clee-
land’s property near The Narrows (Vic.)
(B. 15/l/’36) reminds me that some
years ago I saw there a whaleboat that
was used by and belonged to the Hentvs,
of Portland Bay pioneering fame. Lying
disused for many decades in an incon-
spicuous shed by the Newhaven jetty,
this long, rakish, clinker-built double-
ender was quite sound ; it was kept by
Cleeland to shift stock to the mainland
in an emergency.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: A native crew of a Torres
Strait island m.o.p. cutter provided a
variant of the Marie Celeste incident
when it chanced upon a swarm of float-
ing turtle. The prospect of a tribal gorge
was too much, and the company aban-
doned ship in quest of the floating
dinners. While each secured his turtle
£6OO worth of gear and cutter sailed
away in a stiff south-east breeze, to be
irretrievably lost among the swamps of
the Papuan littoral.
* * * *
“Comic Strip”: These latter-day lads
and lasses of the village make me smile
when they plume themselves on being
so modern and so daring with their
nudism. There is nothing new about
the practice ; it' goes back to the days
when the blacks were bad and flourished
in the despised ’sixties. In fact, the
beachside regulations of Victoria —some
of which still exist—are plainly framed
for the purpose of controlling nudism.
Until quite recently there was a State
prohibition against bathing in certain
populated areas between 6 a.m. and S
p.m., while there was no reference what-
ever to costuming, Spooner or other-
wise. Even as late as the ’eighties it was
customary for picnic and other parties
to divide according to sex and swim in
the altogether at different points of the
foreshore—the intervening distances
being fixed according to the personal
idiosyncrasies of the bathers.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.H.S.: Can’t find any point in Murphy’s
snakes W.C.: Glad to hear from you, but
it is no recommendation that your slab of
poesy was “written within one hour”....
J.M.H.: “Recompense” doesn’t merit any
G.R.P.: There isn’t the price of a long beer
in it J.L.S.: Your toast is a bit leathery.
F.D.: Quite tolerable verse of its kind;
the trouble is that it isn’t our kind... .F.W.M.:
No use for music-hall songs of 60 or 70 years
ago, even with a new or slightly-altered coat
of words.. .K.E.G.C.: “Please criticise in your
columns.” Dreadful S.R.: Unimpressive as
well as hopelessly belated... .J.R.R.: Neither
as versifier nor humorist do you rise out of the
ruck... .A.L.M.: “Unsophisticated Joy” gave
us none whatever... .M.K.8.: Found your re-
flective cook terribly prosy... .C. 8.: Good
sentiment, but it doesn’t get out of the com-
monplace... .A.F.E.T.: Fails to hold the
interest F.C.: We used a story about a
similar character not long ag0....M.D.:
Those yarns on the poetic-justice theme need
to be very well d0ne....M.N.: Leaves a nasty
taste in the mouth... .W.L.: Fair piece of
satire, but not quite good enough... .D’A.W.:
Turkey tale out of season... .D.J.C.: The
“murdered” shop-window model is an old
stunt T.D.8.: It doesn’t convince 1.D.:
Interest is not sustained... .C.R. : Morbid,
introspective stuff; snap out of it and try
something real... .W.M.S.: Far too long and
not the type 8.5.: Are you trying to
improve on “The Man from Ironbark,” or have
you just heard the story? ... .E.D.: Not up to
your usual.... R.L.: “Cigarette Smoke” was
the closer of the two, but not close enough.
K.F.: It doesn’t grip sufficiently Pat-
mac: Too disconnected... .M.S.: Not very far
off... .W.R.W.: Miles too long 8.4: Senti-
ment sound, verses shaky... .G.Y.: That’s
not philosophy; you’re just going around in
a circle H.D.G.: Surely Lome is de-
serving of better verse... .A.G.R.: Skit
doesn’t carry enough humor F.C.: Your
second sentence carried 180 words; we like
them no longer than 175... .E.A.W.: Ah!
our old friends the amateur prospectors who
are saved in the nick of time when their shaft,
undermined by the river, caves in; that plot
was a favorite in the pre-Ned Kelly days
P.G.: “The Necklace” evidently after —a very
long way after —Guy de Maupassant... .J.D.:
That’s an old stunt... .J.M.K.: Twelve pages
of morbid introspection as he communes with
Nature in the clean, wholesome bush—we shed
good, clean salt tears over it M.F.: Mushily
sentimental O.B.: Very neat brevity, but
setting unsuitable.... J.D.G.R.: Can’t make out
whether it’s meant to be serious or a bur-
lesque, but it’s no good as either... .R.J.R.:
Both skits miss.... A.Z.: Sardine duly canned;
the snob-complex plot is a regular caller—it
has never amused us yet....J.N.5.:
The selfsame waves that lave thy Circular Quay
Waft the sail to thee from far Tahiti.
Winds, not waves, waft... .L.P.A.: We recog-
nised that old friend, but the spare room was
already occupied 1.L.L.: It had its
moments; try again.... Sar; Not in our line;
send it to one of the dailies for a Saturday
supplement... .D.W.D.: No, no, n 0!....
L. 8.: Article too uneven... .C.G.: Old Lily
with her shotgun and razor isn’t convincing.
. ...A.W.J.S.: Not suitable... .K.M.F.: Well,
it is something to have learned contentment
with your 10t....E.M.: Form all right, but
sentiment’s trite and hackneyed... .A.G.J.: All
fall short... .1.T.M.: Publishable? No. Any
ability? Yes, ability to rhyme and scan. Now
find something new to say, or a new way of
saying something old.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.J.N.: Pen drawings show some promise..••
S.D.: She looks as if she had strayed from
some freaks’ museum... .A.T.: You won’t tempt
us with gags 20 years 01d....R.5.: Samples
suggest that you’d make a fair sign writer—
P.J.L.: Try again—after you have spent a few
years learning to draw... .C.N.: Figures seem
to have been ironed out by a steam-roller
E.M.: Stale jests attached to wooden and
overcrowded illustrations... .A.R.D.: The
window-cleaner’s retort is no laugh-raiser
V. 8.: You began to go wrong when you
started on the humans... .R.G.F.: There
cannot be many older dog jokes than that
H.F.: Tackle something easier W.S.:
Hopelessly stiff E.L.: You’re bright and
early with your British election cartoon, aren t
you? D.F.: The prohibition issue is dead
and buried... .M.H.: You have a sense of
decoration, but lack humor G.R.H.: You
must have had a merry time slashing that out.
.... D.M.K.: Barmaid is hardly distinguishable
from the adjacent beer pumps C.W.: A
waste of good Bristol board J.S.W.:
Original composition spoiled by harsh, jagged
linework... .T. 8.: Not keen on mere head
studies with He-She gags... .N.C.G.: Take
more pains with your sketches and smarten your
humor E.C.: Every one found its way to
the w.p.b A.H.: That dead-marine wheeze
has had its day....R.F.: Sorry, but your
sketch is waiting for y0u....J.8.: The best
part of it is the map of Australia M.8.L.:
Not a chance.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
'“ rcn r °m 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5,45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directoiis —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
I Bans offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general bamsing business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart fox the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. _ _
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (15), Sydney, intermediate certificate,
some knowledge typing and shorthand, re-
quires position in city office. —328.
Proofreader (middle-aged) wants position
newspaper or jobbing office, full- or part-time.
Refs.—32s.
Compositor, Vic., mid.-age, 14 years country
newspapers Vic., requires position weekly
paper N.S.W. or Vic. Exp. intertype, book-
binding, paragraphing; 20 years’ city commer-
cial exp.—3 Bl.
Salesman requires position with wholesale
merchant or real-estate agent.—297.
Man with naval exp. wants care of boilers
or any work. Refs. —326.
Whereabouts of Jack Ashton, who was work-
ing in a Sydney shipyard in 1913, or Minnie
Ashton, his wife. (To Mrs. Eleanor Kelley,
943 Cavalry-avenue, Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.)
To buy book on plaiting of leather. —388.
To borrow any recent copy of the “Aus-
tralian Genealogist.”—3ss.
To buy Sailing Alone Around the World,
by Slocum. —294.
Words of poem beginning “Have we made
better of better conditions?” —301.
Information Sought,
Who are the three best Australian and Eng-
lish fast bowlers so far as averages in Aus-
tralia-England Test matches are concerned ? —•
310.
Australian: F. R. Spofforth, who took 38
for 651 in England and 56 for 1080 in Aus-
tralia—94 for 1731, averaging 18.41; A.
Cotter, 30 for 792 in England and 37 for
1124 in Australia —67 for 1916, averaging
28.59; E. Jones, 35 for 972 in England and
25 for 752 in Australia —60 for 1757, averag-
ing 29.28. English: T. Richardson, 54 for 1625
in Australia and 34 for 595 in England—88 for
2220, averaging 25.22; H. Larwood, 13 for 544
in England and 51 for 1380 in Australia —64
for 1924, averaging 30.62; G. Hirst (fastest
left-hanfler), 32 for 830 in England and 17
for 755 in Australia —49 for 1585, averaging
32.34.
* * * *
How does black eye develop after a blow?
What is the treatment ? —336.
The typical black eye is a bruise; its
character depends largely upon the cause and
situation. Localised bruise is due to rupture
of small vessels (capillaries) beneath the point
pf impact. The eyeball is well protected by
its bony socket, so that a blow usually does
little damage to the eye itself; the outer lids
and surrounding tissues are bruised against
the margin of the socket. The best pre-
liminary application is a cold, wet pad bound
firmly over the eye-socket, and renewed
frequently as it becomes warm. This has the
effect of closing the ruptured vessels, and
limiting the amount of blood effused. The
time-honored “piece of raw beef” owes its
virtue, if any, to being cold and moist. After
about eight or ten hours, tepid bathing is
preferable, followed by gentle massage. These
methods serve to stimulate the adjacent vessels
to remove the escaped blood. Theatrical
greasepaint may be applied to cover medium
pronounced disfigurement.
* * * *
What are the circumstances in which a man
is entitled to attach “Esquire” to his name ?
Can the title be inherited by all sons, or should
it be used only by the eldest son ? —270.
“Esquire” (one who carried the shield of a
knight) is a title given by English usage to
the youngest sons of the nobility, officers of
the King’s Court and household, counsellors
of the law, justices of the peace, sheriffs,
holders of commissions in the army and navy
and graduates in the universities not in holy
orders. As a matter of courtesy, not of
right, it is given to attorneys and solicitors,
surgeons, bankers, etc. Social custom in Aus-
tralia favors the use of “Mr.”
* * 5{C ijj
Is there any support for a theory that the
continents and large islands are not tethered to
™ bulk of the earth but are floating free ?—
387.
Such a theory is regarded as feasible by
many reputable scientists. Alfred Wegener,
• iivS?* 0 ex Pl° re r who perished in Greenland
in 1930, made tests which seem to show that
Greenland is moving westward at the rate of
118ft. a year, a phenomenon for which the
floating theory provides about the most satis-
factory explanation.
* * * *
What is the correct version and authorship
of the aphorism beginning “There’s so much
good in the worst of us and so much bad in
the best of us” ? —232.
The quotation concludes: “That it ill be-
hoves any of us to find fault with the rest
of us. It is attributed to Stevenson.
* * * *
How does one set about obtaining employ-
ment as a mannequin or as a model for photo-
graphic purposes ? What chances are there
~9S83 iirmg this nature in Sydney ?
Firms which make a practice of staging
seasonal mannequin displays state that they
-nave lists of persons available and suitable
tor the work. Occasionally girls are engaged
through a school that trains mannequins. Chief
qualifications are deportment, poise, good
physical development and a flair for wear-
ing clothes to advantage. There is employ-
ment for mannequins only for a few weeks m
the year. For photographic models an attrac-
tive natural manner, good features and good
teeth are essential. Russell Roberts, Ltd., War-
wick Building, 15 Hamilton-street, Sydney,
deals in photographic advertising.
# * *
I have heard there is a society dealing with
heraldry and genealogy in general in Sydney.
What is its address, and what are the society’s
objects ?—263.
The Society of Australian Genealogists has
its office and an extensive library at 91
Phillip-street, Sydney. It was formed in 1932
to encourage the study of genealogy, family
history and heraldry, to make permanent
records and indices of all matters bearing
on these subjects, and to work in conjunction
with the Society of Genealogists, London. The
hon. secretary is E. McC. S. Hill, F.S.G.,
23 Denning-street, Coogee, N.S.W. Monthly
meetings are held, and a quarterly magazine
is published.
* * * *
To which clan do the Murdochs belong,
and what is their clan history ? —66.
The clans Macpherson and Macdonald both
possess septs bearing the name of Murdoch.
The former clan traces its descent from Duncan
Parsoun, who flourished in the fifth century,
and disputes with the Mackintoshes the leader-
ship of the Clan Chattan confederacy. The
powerful Clan Macdonald was founded by
Somerled, son of Gillebride, who early in the
eleventh century wrested from Godred, King
of Man and the Isles, the overlordship of
those domains. Members of that branch of the
Macdonald family known as the Murdochs are
stated to have been hereditary harpers to the
Lords of the Isles; the word itself, of Celtic
origin, means literally sea-happy.
He * * *
(1) Composition of gunpowder ? (2) How is
it made ? (3) Composition of military powder ?
—93.
(1) Various-formulae are used. A mixture
of 70 p.c. potassium nitrate (saltpetre), 15 p.c.
sulphur and 15 p.c. charcoal is characteristic.
(2) By very thoroughly mixing the ingredients
and forming them into grains, which are
polished with graphite. The process is an
involved one. (3) Approximately 74.9 p.c.
potassium nitrate, 13.3 p.c. carbon, 11.8 p.c.
sulphur. Gunpowder is now rarely used except
for blasting and in the manufacture of fire-
works. The manufacture of explosives of any
sort in any quantity is prohibited by law in
Australia save under license and subject to
strict regulations.
* * * *
Particulars concerning a new kind of glass
called Thermolux ? —290.
It is a variety of glass which has been pro-
duced to give diffused lighting instead of the
ordinary transmitted effects. Threads of glass,
so finely drawn that a bundle appears like a
wisp of silk, form the basis of the product.
This glass silk is woven into a piece and sand-
wiched between two sheets of ordinary glass,
so that the light does not pass through, as in
the case of clear glass, but is caught and dif-
fused by the countless facets of the silk. It
is claimed that this gives a more effective
light and eliminates shadows. The glass can
be produced in a variety of colors.
* H= * H=
What are the constituents and virtues of
lettuce ? As a leaf-vegetable, does its inclu-
sion in the diet tend to increase weight ? —260.
An average-analysis is: Water 94.5 p.c.,
protein 0.9 p.c., fat 0.3 p.c., carbohydrates 2.9
p.c., cellulose 0.7 p.c., ash 0.7 p.c. Calorific
value per pound is 85. Eaten raw as a salad,
lettuce provides the antiscorbutic and protec-
tive vitamins C and A respectively, as well as
the mineral salts so often removed when leaf-
vegetables are cooked. As a roughage, the
indigestible fibre of the leaf exercises a useful
laxative action; the ash (as above) contains
potash, lime, soda, chlorine, phosphoric acid,
iron oxide, etc. Lettuce does not tend to in-
crease weight.
* * * *
(1) I have had my tonsils taken out three
times, and my doctor says at any time I might
have to have another operation, as my throat
is chronically septic. Why is that ? (2) My
doctor also says the thyroid glands in my throat
don’t function. Is this serious and likely to
lead to a goitre ? What is thyroid-gland
trouble ? (3) What exactly is wrong with me ?
(4) Will 1 have to have an operation for the
glands ? —9910.
(1) The function of the tonsils is to filter
septic matter from the mouth and destroy it.
When the tonsils are overwhelmed in infection
and have become chronically enlarged and un-
healthy, they should be removed without delay.
Infection may persist in the faucial tissues, and
further operation is sometimes required. Toxic
absorption into the system is detrimental to
health. Unless the area is cleansed or
enucleated, the infection may initiate fibrositic
troubles such as lumbago and associated forms
of rheumatism, with possible involvement of
both joints and muscles. Heart and digestive
troubles commonly result. (2) Thyroid defi-
ciency does not necessarily contribute to goitre.
In the latter development an overfunctioning
of these glands is usual. Although the exact
cause of goitre is not fully determined, there
is reason to suppose that a micro-organism
is primarily at fault. (3) Can’t say without
personal inspection. (4) The throat tissues
demand attention, and possibly a minor opera-
tion will be necessary. Gland extracts may be
prescribed internally for thyroid deficiency.
* * * *
Can you tell me something about leprosy;
the treatment and diet for sufferers ? —lB4.
Leprosy is a chronic contagious disease due
to infection by the lepra bacillus, a rod-shaped
germ, which closely resembles that of tuber-
culosis. The disease is contagious, but not
hereditary, and is usually localised in its
occurrence. Much progress in the study of
leprosy has been made in recent years, and
the use of chaulmoogra oil has secured good
results. Apart from this, general treatment
(under medical supervision) is directed towards
raising the resistance. Cod-liver oil, cream,
eggs, milk and a generous mixed diet should be
given. Sera and vaccines have been tried
without definite results.
* * * *
I suffer from what appear to be pimples
which form inside the mouth. They have
yellow heads, which are flat. Cause and cure ?
—lBl.
In the absence of local irritation, such as is
caused by dental faults, mouth pimples or
ulcers must be attributed to gastric irregulari-
ties. A simple, non-acid diet is advised; stone-
fruit, tomatoes and sweets must be curtailed.
Avoid constipation with frequent aperient
salines. If foetid breath is noted, alternate
milk of magnesia with the salts, and use it
as a dentifrice on the toothbrush. Other-
wise, use glycerin-thymol compound with tepid
water (one in three) as a mouth-wash and
gargle after meals. An alkaline bismuth-and-
soda mixture may be taken later.
* * * *
What are the chief causes of ptomaine-
poisoning ? Does keeping cooked meat in an
ice-chest produce ptomaines ? —9954.
A ptomaine is a poison that is elaborated
by the action of bacteria on protein foods,
meat, etc. This action may take place either
before or after the food is eaten, but in most
cases there is some indication of infection
( bacillus certrycke and geertner), especially in
preserved and canned foods. The latter should
be discarded on the slightest suspicion that
they are not in perfect condition; a bulged
tin suggests fermentation due to bacterial
growth. Efficient cooking of food is a safe-
guard against ptomaine, but unfortunately the
temperature of the central part of cooked food
is not always sufficiently raised. Ice-chests
have nothing to do with it. All foods should
be stored in a cool place and protected from
contamination by flies.
* * * *
Treatment for early stages of baldness, when
hair starts to thin out and recede ? —233.
Progressive loss of hair after maturity can
seldom be arrested; in most cases gland
deficiencies precipitate the fault. Massage a
bay-rum lotion into the hair roots daily and
add a trace of castor oil if the scalp is dry.
An occasional singe benefits by strengthening
the hair shaft. Meanwhile give attention to
health; if nervous or debilitated take an iron
tonic after meals. Avoid tight-fitting head-
wear, and apply warmed olive oil overnight
before shampooing once a week. Use coal-
tar soap and hot water for the latter pur-
pose. Note that scalp massage involves a
pinching movement from temples and nape of
neck towards the crown; this stimulates
capillary circulation.
* * *
(1) Is there any award governing motor-
truck drivers in North Queensland ? If so,
award wages per week ? (2) Similar informa-
tion regarding motor mechanics ? (3) Engineer
apprentices ? (4) Is union membership com-
pulsory in any of these occupations ? —9983.
(1) Yes, the Carting Trade Award (Northern
Division). The wages are: One-ton truck, £4
135.; one to three tons, £4 18s.; over three
tons, £5 75.; plus Bs. western allowance. (2)
Mechanical Engineering Award. Wages:
2s. 6 10-1 Id. per hour, plus 2d. per hour
western allowance. (3) Mechanical Engineer-
ing Award. Wages are as follows:
First year, 15s. 9d.; second year, £1 Is. lid.;
third year, £1 15s. Bd.; fourth year, £2 12s. Id.;
fifth year, £3 ss. 9d.; plus 3s. Bd. per week
western allowance. (4) Yes, in all.
* * * *
Is the song “Gilbert the Filbert’’ a recent
composition or a war-time effort ? —303.
It is of war-time vintage, by Hermann
Finck, and was a feature of “The Passing
Show.”
* * * *
(1) What poet wrote the following lines:
Her pretty feet
Like snails did creep
A little out, and then,
As if they started at 80-peep,
Did soon draw in again.
(2) Didn’t another English poet write in a
similar strain ? —252.
(1) Robert Herrick, in “Upon Her Feet.”
(2) John Suckling’s “Ballad Upon a Wedding”
contains the lines:
Her feet beneath her petticoat
Like little mice, stole in and out.
* * * *
The meaning and application of the Latin
term “eheu, fugaces” ? —9980.
The opening lines of one of Horace’s odes
are “Eheu! fugaces, Postume, Postume,
Labuntur anni.” (“Alas, O Postumus, Postumus,
the fleeting years glide on.”) Hence, the first
two words “eheu, fugaces” are a brief way
of registering regret for the advance of age.
* * * *
How should croton leaves be treated so
that they will arrive in England still showing
their vivid colors ? —9569.
Cover leaves completely with dry sand.
Leave for eight or ten days, then pour off
the sand.
* * *
Are red, green or white primary colors ? If
not, what primary colors enter into their com-
positions ? —37.
There are three primary color sensations,
red, green and blue-violet, all our varied and
complex impressions of color being produced
by the excitation of one or more of these
sensations, with varying degrees of intensity
according to the color of the particular object.
Red, green and blue-violet sensations combine
into white.
Brief Answers.
5.8.: Probably you have confused the call
for previous victims of infantile paralysis with
the mention of malaria treatment in general
paralysis of the insane. The latter was largely
exploited in 1929-30; in conjunction with ultra-
short-wave therapy, it has proved most effective.
Patients were inoculated with the malarial para-
site, the malaria being eliminated later by
administration of quinine. The modern short-
wave treatment raises the body temperature to
a fever state (105 deg. Fahr.)... .R.W.L.: The
Farmer’s Handbook, Fream’s Elements of
Agriculture, Cox’s Crop Production and Soil
Management, Hutcheson, Wolfe’s Production
of Field Crops and Bruning’s The Australian
Gardener R.K.: (1) No. A woman who
receives the distinction of D.B.E. is addressed
as Dame. (2) Yes A.A.: (1) Communicate
with the Commissioner of Road Transport,
Sydney. (2) Recently an amendment of the
Motor Car Act was brought before Parliament
to reduce the age limit from 18 to 16 for
motor-drivers of cycles in Vic. It was not
passed A.E.: It is generally accepted that
adult height can be increased by exercise; best
join a physical-culture class. Junctions of the
long bones are involved in growth changes to
maturity; stretching movements and the like
assist later. To some extent, growth is
influenced by requisite vitamins in the food;
a varied diet, with green leaf-vegetables and
fruit, is recommended. Any deficiency of the
ductless glands (thyroid and pituitary) demands
attention J.W.W.: Write Premier’s Dept.,
Brisbane J.E.8.: McGrath’s Justices Act
with Notes (12s. lid. posted), and Edwards’s
Duties of the Justices of the Peace (10s. 6d.
posted), obtainable from Law Book Co., 140
Phillip-street, Sydney E. 8.: A banker is
“one who receives money in trust to be drawn
against as the owner has occasion for it.” He
is not compelled to receive all money tendered
to him —that is to say, open an account for
anyone without discrimination. The Common-
wealth Bank is no exception to the rule, and
the manager is within his rights in refusing to
open an account 8.L.M.: At present the
profession of a mining engineer who holds a
uni. degree is by no means overcrowded. In
N.S.W. very few persons have taken a mining
course during the past few years. It is impos-
sible to forecast what the position will be in
three years, which is the least period in which a
man can obtain a mining degree A.M.L.:
According to an Australian catalogue, the stamp
is priced as follows: On original cover, £35;
used, but not on cover, £2O; and unused, with
full margins all round stamp, £lOO. According
to Ackland’s Catalogue, only twelve of these
stamps are known to exist in unused condition.
About 130 stamps were actually used. The
selling price of this stamp according to the
latter catalogue is: On original cover, about
£2O; unused, about £4O J.L.: (1) Austral
Bronze Co., O’Riordan-street, Alexandria,
N.S.W. Copper, £3O to £3B; lead, £lO to
£l6; brass, from £l4 per ton. (2) Try the
nearest hotel or store. If not acceptable there
the bottles are probably not worth the
freight... .J.W.W.: The cricketers who have
scored centuries before lunch in test matches
are all Australians—V. Trumper, C. G.
Macartney, D. G. Bradman and S. J. McCabe.
The first three centuries were made against
England; McCabe’s was against S. Africa
R.D.S.: Man-Shy, by F. D. Davison; obtain-
able leading booksellers D.M.: Varies from
20 to 33 1-3 p.c R.N.T.: Write Graziers’
Co-operative Shearing Co., 23 Macquarie-place,
Sydney H.D.: Members of the House of
Representatives are paid £B5O p.a N. 8.:
The Commonwealth public debt at Sept. 30,
1935, was £393,730,225, and the public debts
of the States totalled £850,321,643, aggregating
£1,244,051,868....J.W.: Wash the mouth and
tongue of the dog thoroughly several times a
day with a solution of borax, one teaspoonful
to half a pint of water. To wounds or ulcers,
apply sparingly night and morning a two-per-
cent. solution of nitrate of silver. When the
tongue is very swollen and protruding beyond
the mouth, apply ice R.M.K.: Estimated
populations at June 30, 1935, were as follows:
N.S.W., 2,644,760; Vic., 1,837,966; Q’land,
967,947; S. Aus., 584,815; Westralia, 445,692;
Tas., 228,728; North Aus., 5111; Fed. Cap.
Territory, 9286. Total for Australia, 6,724,305.
K.T.: The addresses of The Bulletin
office in Sydney have been: Jan., 1880-July,
1880, 107 Castlereagh-street; July, 1880-Aug.,
1881, 13 Bridge-street; Aug., 1881-Aug., 1896, 24
Pitt-street (on the corner of what is now named
Bulletin-place); Aug., 1896-Nov., 1931, 214
George-street; since Nov., 1931, 252 George-
street C.A.: The words of the song “Drink
to Me Only with Thine Eyes” were written by
Ben Jonson F.M.C.: The stanza is from
Martin Parker’s “Ye Gentlemen of England.”
....E.S.: Correct version is “Fraus est acci-
pere quod non possis reddere.” In English it
reads, “It is fraud to accept what you cannot
repay”... .S.E.C.: (1) No. (2) No. Service
pension may commence only from date of
application made after January 1, 1936. (3)
Apply to Deputy-Commissioner of Repatria-
tion, St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, for applica-
tion form. (4) No R.C.P.: A map showing
the average rainfall of Australia is obtainable
from the Commonwealth Meteorological
Bureau, Melbourne J.R.: The monolith
situated in Hyde Park (Sydney), opposite
Bathurst-street, is known as the Thornton
Monument, the structure being of concrete and
used as a ventilator in connection with the
main Bondi outfall sewer. It was erected by
the Municipal Council of Sydney in 1857, and
was taken over by the Metropolitan Water
Board on the constitution of that body....
A.E.8.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Department
for leaflet “Poisoning Green Timber with
Sodium Arsenite” C.S.P.: Get in touch
with the Director, National Art Gallery of
N.S.W., the Domain, Sydney... .R.M.C.:
Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne JJ.: The W.A. Secession
Referendum held on April 8, 1933, resulted as
follows: For secession 138,653, against 70,706,
informal 7921; for a convention 88,275, against
119,031... .P.S.: The “Australian .Stamp
Monthly” (6d.), Box 1944, G.P.0., Melbourne.
(Many others mailed.)


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
The Problem of Paralysis
Touching the remarks of “Specialist”
(B. 5/2/’36) a royal commission has
been appointed by the Queensland Gov-
ernment to investigate the Elizabeth
Kenny method of treating paralysis. Let
me point out: (1) Sister Kenny has been
treating paralysis for many years. (2)
For all that time she has labored for
nothing ; her work, which has been ex-
cessively heavy, has been her sole in-
terest. (3) Many sufferers consider that
they have been greatly improved by her
treatment.
The royal commission has not yet
reached any conclusions for or against
the treatment. —L. S. R. (Q.).
The Prophet Seeley
Your article mentioning Seeley’s Ex-
pansion of England (B. 5/2/’36) is most
interesting. Seeley gave a forecast of the
Empire’s population in 1935: fifty mil-
lions in Britain and fifty millions in the
overseas Dominions. He was correct as
to Britain ; but the overseas Dominions
and colonies cannot muster more than
twenty-two millions of white inhabitants:
Canada and Newfoundland, 11,000,000:
Australia, 6,750,000; New Zealand,
1,750,000; South Africa, 1,750,000;
colonies. (including Indian garrison),
750,000. Naturally, Seeley could not
foresee that automobiles would be pre-
ferred to cradles. — Messines (N.S.W.).
In Stalinland
A “From China to Peru” paragraph
(B. 22/1/’36) makes, on the authority of
the “Saturday Evening Post,” an anti-
quated pass at the shortage of soap in
the U.S.S.R. and the need for travellers
to take bug powder with them.
I travelled in the Intourist “hard”
class, the equivalent of third anywhere
else, but I never sighted a bug on sea
or on land. In Leningrad and Moscow
I had hotel accommodation equal to the
Wentworth in Sydney. There was plenty
of soap and bath water, and the' only
trouble with the food, which appeared
regularly, was that its richness embar-
rassed a tummy grown used to Blooms-
bury hash-house menus.
The biggest surprise for the 15,000
American school-misters and -marms
would be the rides in de luxe Lincoln
cars. Visitors to Ivan and Tamara on
their home ground can be sure of good
grub, bugless beds, soap, baths, putrid
beer and cheer-provoking Crimean wine
at two bob a bottle. —I. D. (Maoriland).
Old Unionists and Young Unionists
Ex-Senator Jack Barnes, holding forth
as president at the A.W.U. conference
at Ballarat, where the union was founded
50 years ago, waxed scornful about
young workers, saying in effect that they
accept thanklessly what older men have
done for them and do nothing them-
selves.
Give them a packet of cigarettes and a
bob for the pictures, and they don’t care
what happens to Australia.
As organiser, Jack recently visited, the
steelworks at Newcastle and found them
regrettably lacking in A.W.U. men.
Hence, perhaps, his blast of indignation
at Ballarat. But are the young men
altogether to blame? Is the trade-union
hierarchy guiltless?
When the young men see the trade-
union hierarchy wasting stacks of hard-
earned money on born-dead enterprises
like the “World” and consigning to stark
poverty hundreds of honest seamen who
loyally obeyed the summons to a mad
strike ; when they hear the trade-union
hierarchy thundering against “mechani-
sation” and yet maundering at intervals
that “Labor is the source of all wealth,”
can they really be expected to venerate
an institution which has so signally failed
to adapt itself to the times?. — Feddup
(Newcastle, N.S.W.).
A Carpentaria Road
Far North Queensland can claim some
consideration in the discussions as to
the development of the Barkly Table-
land. Recognition of this fact has
already come from the Federation of
Chambers of Commerce of Queensland.
In September the Federation adopted a
motion proposing the construction of a
great inland road through the country
surrounding the lower part of the Gulf,
linked with existing main-roads systems,
and providing communication with the
far-western and north-western areas ex-
tending to and beyond the Barkly Table-
land to the N.T.
Australia has already written a won-
derful record in tropical settlement.
Ninety-six per cent, of the dwellers in
tropical Australia live in Queensland.
But the Gulf country, with a population
of one white man to every 640,000 acres,
constitutes a national problem requiring
solution. The greatest difficulty is that
of isolation.
Determination of the route is a matter
for the State. Preference for road com-
munication rather than rail arises from
the belief that the former more readily
meets the needs of the situation. —
George Groom, president, lnnisfail
(N.Q.) Chamber of Commerce.
Railway Wanted
The only practical plan of stimulating
development in the Northern Territory
is by a railway extension from Mount
"I'll admit I'm wrong, if only to avoid a quarrel”
“That just shows what a two-faced beast you are.”
Isa or Dajarra to Camooweal. Thence
there are good tracks for motor traffic,
and thus communication would be pro-
vided.
Chief attention on the Barkly Table-
land should be devoted to sheep-raising ;
but there is no reason, why cattle should
be dispensed with, as a large extent of
country is available and the meatworks
at Townsville could be served. At the
present time one quarter of the area of
the Barkly Tableland is due for resump-
tion. The whole should be taken over
and subdivided. The pastoralists could
easily be compensated.
Of course, a port on the Gulf is sug-
gested ; but for a long time this will be
impracticable. Even if big ships could
come near the coast, we might only
hope for such a development as Wynd-
ham —with a resident population of less
than 50, after the losing enterprise of
nearly 20 years.—W. J. D (N.Q.).
Queensland Manufacturing
Factory industries (B. 22/1/’36) are
lagging in Queensland, and the reason is
given in one of those boastful Govern-
ment publications:
The people of Queensland have the
benefit of the highest basic wage, the
lowest cost of living and the shortest
working hours of all the States.
In other words, high wages and short
hours make the cost of manufacture pro-
hibitive. Therefore, the high-wage-short-
hour beneficiaries send a minimum of
£13,000,000 per annum to make work
for people in the “coolie” southern
States, where wages are lower. Unem-
ployment is less than in other States
because there is less secondary industry
to wilt under depression, in consequence
of the importing policy ; also, because
the Governments and municipal coun-
cils take enough taxation out of the
high wages and borrow enough on the
credit of the primary industries to keep
40,000 Government and civic employees
in jobs. This number is equal to 25 p.c.
of all male wage- and salary-earners. —•
Old Tom’s Ghost (Q.).
The School-leaving Age
“Grasspan” recommends extending
the school-leaving age (B. 29/1 / ’36) ; but
surely there are many things more valu-
able to a y oungster than those That can
be learned from books and within the
four walls of a school.
By 14 a lad should have enough of
the rudiments of education to carry him
through. Those who covet “white-collar”
jobs can always carry on at the State
high schools; the others could be far
more healthily and usefully employed if
turned out into the open air to learn
something of the oldest art of all—how
to handle animals and make a plant
grow. This is valuable knowledge what-
ever calling be pursued in later life.
For two years a small committee on
the n.-w. coast of Tas. has run a scheme
V
for employing boys of 14 or so on farms.
The farmer trains and feeds them, and
the Government pays the boy a subsidy
of ss. per week for a period not exceed-
ing two years. This keeps him in
clothes, and he is no burden on his
.family. There is no binding agreement
on either side ; if the boy is not happy
or if the farmer cannot afford to supple-
ment the wages as he becomes more use-
ful, he can always apply for another
position under the scheme.
There have, of course, been misfits,
but the scheme has worked surprisingly
well.. Boys who were getting into trouble
with the police have settled down con-
tentedly in a more congenial home atmo-
sphere, and many who were under-
nourished improved out of recogni-
tion in physique. Many letters from
both boys and farmers testify to the
valuable help it has, mutually afforded
them.
In spite of these results, and although
the experiment received the blessing of
the Director of Education, the Ogilvie
Government has decided to withdraw the
subsidy and close it down. The only
reason given is that “it has grown out
of all proportion,” whatever that may
mean.
This effort shows, however, what might
be done at a comparatively low cost.
Lads might be given the option of spend-
ing another year at school or of work-
ing in the country. —M. L. C. (Tas.).
The Inconvenient Gyppo
The “sanctions” turmoil has obscured
an even more unpleasant situation which
Britain may have to face before long—-
the application by Egypt, or a consider-
able section of Egyptians, for admittance
to the League of Nations.
Ostensibly an independent nation,
Egypt is nevertheless held in British lead-
ing strings, a situation forced upon
Britain by the necessity for safeguarding
the Suez Canal. Egypt desires above all
else the withdrawal of the British troops
retained in the country for this purpose,
and guarantees in return to look after
the Canal itself —a job of which it is
incapable. There are other important
issues at stake, such as the withdrawal
of the capitulations, but these may be
passed over for the present.
If Egypt officially applies to the League
for membership Britain will be in a
cleft stick. At present the only move
has come from the Young Egypt party,
an extreme wing of the Nationalist Wafd,
which looks like sweeping the polls at
the elections—if elections are held. This
has applied to the League asserting that
Egypt is a victim of British aggression,
and adding that the entire nation is de-
manding that Egypt become a member
of the League so that Egyptian claims
may be put before that body.
Britain will certainly oppose Egypt’s
admission, and will probably be sup-
ported by its present backers in the
“sanctions” campaign. But the world
beyond the League is sure to ask whether
Egypt hasn’t claims just as good as Abys-
sinia, for instance. Whatever the out-
come, the affair will be still an-
other blow to British prestige,
already dimmed by the champion-
ship of the Abyssinian savages
and the enforcement of sanctions
on a once-valued friend. — Romani
(Vic.).
Poachers in the North
In “Let Japan Have It” (B. 8/l/’35)
the writer puts the position exactly,
except that he is in error in saying that
untaxed aliens are operating outside the
three-mile limit. The Queensland boun-
daries, duly proclaimed, run right up
to the New Guinea coast, taking in all
the islands and reefs of the Torres Strait,
as well as some distance down and out-
side the Great Barrier. The Torres Strait
islanders come within Queensland juris-
diction ; an islander who, while trying
to earn a livelihood picking up trochus-
shell, is found with undersized stuff is
liable to a £5 fine or a term in the cala-
boose. Fines have been inflicted under
the Act; but I’ve not heard of any
Japanese being asked to pay up for illeg-
ally taking “chicken” shell, although
they have cleaned up areas in these pro-
hibited waters.
The Australian marine-products col-
lector is forced to comply with labor
regulations, pay set wages and hand out
cash for licenses and taxation, working
within the boundary line as defined.
Aliens simply help themselves and defy
Australia to do anything. This has been
going on for years now'. In one case
where Thursday Island officials arrested
a sampan, the master was fined a tenner
for failing to respond to signals (a doubt-
ful charge by the way), but on the other
charge of being within prohibited waters,
after waiting for “advice from Can-
berra” they were forced to let the vessel
depart without further action. The
Dutch and French aren’t so timid when
poachers visit their waters— Ugar
(N.Q.).
“The Commissioner 5 ’
I do not agree with “Fi. Fa.” (B.
12/1/’36) that the railways belong to the
people who lent the money for their con-
struction. They belong to Commissioners.
Commissioners increase the salaries of
their , staff men. They build huge monu-
ments to their glory on conspicuous sites
where thousands of their retainers are
ranged around them.
Who is the owner of anything more
than the man who controls expenditure?
The Commissioner is armed and armor-
plated by the Act of Parliament under
which he has been appointed, and he
can defy all the powers until another
Act is passed specially to overthrow him,
or until his reign expires by effluxion of
time. — Condo (N.S.W.).


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Palfresco had a few supporters at 20 to
1. Both should benefit by the outing.
Palfresco had not raced since his Vic-
toria Derby failure. Apparently he is
sound again.
Under the Whip
After one of the most exciting contests
in the history of the race, Belle Silhouette
won the Oakleigh Plate at Caulfield,
inflicting a last-stride defeat on Arachne,
the favorite. Then ringmen rejoiced, as
Belle Silhouette was a 20-to-l pop,
whereas J. A. Donohoe’s candidate
started at the cramped odds of 3 to 1.
Her heavy burden of 9st. 71b. stopped
Arachne. She conceded 351 b. and a year
in age to the winner, whose victory was
largely attributable to the vigor of
Neville Percival at the end of a race.
Percival had ridden Belle Silhouette in
the Standish Handicap on New Year’s
Day, and w,as so pleased with the way
she galloped that he offered to pilot her
in any selected sprint in the autumn. The
owner, Cantwell, gave Belle Silhouette
a short let-up. He ran her at Williams-
town on January 27, and won with her
there a week before the Oakleigh Plate.
The 51b. rise in weight to 7st. did not
affect Belle Silhouette on Saturday ; she
is five years old and well matured. Her
success is another advertisement for Beau
Fils, who sired Waltzing Lady, winner
of the Standish and Newmarket Handi-
caps of 1933 and the Futurity Stakes of
1934.
Cantwell holds Belle Silhouette on
lease from George Nixon, the Gippsland
breeder, who owned the 1922 Australian
Cup winner, Harvest King. Nixon gave
85 guineas for Foxglove, the dam of
Belle Silhouette, as a yearling. Foxglove
did not earn much credit as a galloper.
She was bred by Samuel Hordern, and is
by Aerofox from Surricka (imp.).
. Studio did not gather speed so rapidly
as usual in the Oakleigh Plate. It cost
her too much effort to run up behind
the pacemaker, Heritor, and before the
field turned for home it was manifest
that the Manfred filly could not win.
Heritor tired, as also did Cluniac, the
champion S.A. sprinter. It is no wonder
they cracked up, as the 5£ furlongs were
covered in lmin. 4fsec., equalling the
Australasian record put up by Ibrani in
the Oakleigh Plate of 1933. Heros was
only half a length behind the second
horse. He is a consistent old fellow,
having been second in 1934 and third a
year ago. Short Wave, Grand Mogul
and Barak did no credit to N. S. Wales.
The first-named pair met with fair sup-
port, but 50 to 1 could be obtained about
Barak.
The Randwick trainer George Price
did remarkably well, winning divisions of
the juvenile event with Gold Rod and
Ilium, and taking the St. George Stakes
with Cuddle. These horses belong to
separate owners, and each had a dif-
ferent jockey ; McCarten rode Gold Rod,
Darby Munro Ilium and Keith Voitre
Cuddle.
The victories of Gold Rod and Cuddle
were gained brilliantly. Gold Rod
(evens) cleared out from his rivals, and
won by a “street.” Cuddle (2 to 1) was
allowed to run her own race in the St.
George Stakes, and at one stage led the
nearest horse by four lengths, with the
others spread out in Indian file over half
a furlong or more. After chasing Cuddle
up to three furlongs from home Mara-
bou stopped in a stride. He finished last,
and, if this effort is any criterion, Mara-
bou can have no chance in the weight-
for-age races at Flemington.
Minor places in the St. George Stakes
were filled by St. Fervent, who claimed
51b., and Young Idea, who had a 101 b.
penalty. The finishing effort of St. Fer-
vent was most impressive. Fifty yards
from home he looked like overhauling
Cuddle, but Voitre merely shook up the
M.L. mare, to draw away again and win
(easing up in the. last few strides) by
three-quarters of a length. St. Fervent
(Curialis —Devotee) belongs to C.
Ruwolt, who won a Newmarket Handi-
cap with St. Ardent. The colt is a first-
acceptor for the V.R.C. St. Leger, but
if they meet in the classic Young Idea
will have many more supporters.
Palfresco and Allunga ran fourth and
fifth respectively in the St. George Stakes.
The Sydney colt was not marketable, but
Australian Cup horses did not show
up well in the Bond Handicap. Hot Shot
shaped best by finishing a moderate third
to Cotys (7 to 2) and Windmar. Cotys,
one of A. T. Creswick’s three-year-olds
(he is by Thracian —Chartbois), has
come good, and it is a pity he is not in
the Australian Cup. The Adelaide mare
Amalia was one of the failures.
Because of the distance (8| furlongs)
being considered too short for him,
Bunsby Gaze was allowed to go out at
25 to 1 in the second division of the
Salisbury Welter. He earned high credit
by making a dead-heat with Link Divine
(2 to 1), and must have an excellent
chance in the Australian Cup with 7st.
81b. The first division went to Chelan-
dric, a stable-mate of Marabou —well
backed at 11 to 2.
The field for the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes next Saturday will be weak.
Closing Time will meet Arachne on 41b.
better terms than in the Oakleigh Plate.
He was second to Waltzing Lily in 1934,
and is as fit as at any previous period
of his career.
* * * *
Dulcedo has been desperately unlucky
in Sydney. He would have won the
middle-distance handicap at Canterbury
Park but for getting into all sorts of
trouble. His rider, Tanwan, was not
seen to advantage on him, and that is put-
ting it mildly. Tanwan kept his mount
on the rails too long ; no opening came.
Taken round his field at the Leger, Dul-
cedo was squeezed between Milantheon
and Loud Applause. And then he twisted
a plate.
Loud Applause gave young Britt his
first winning ride. He and Dulcedo were
both at 7 to 2, and Ned Moss’s Limond
colt beat Dulcedo by half a length;
Salamander, who flashed up on the rails,
was a similar distance away. Loud
Applause is a good-looking fellow, and
may yet justify the promise he showed
in the spring. But he was getting 231 b.
from Dulcedo, and should have been
second instead of first.
Thebez (6 to 1) in the Flying Handicap
improved greatly on recent exhibitions.
He got a break at the half-mile, and,
shooting away at the turn, defeated Dame
Moab (second-last early) by three
lengths ; Cid, the favorite, was third, and
Questionnaire fourth. Sarcherie, now
doing a preparation for the Sydney Cup,
had a run. Last away, she stayed there ;
all the same, she looks nice and bright.
Florida (6 to 1), a son of Magpie,
ridden by hurdle jockey McMenamin,
showed pace and determination in the
first division of the Highweight. Over
the last bit he made hacks of Psalmist
and Maelstrom. Concilio (7 to 2) always
had it on other second-division runners.
Falstaff tried to take the lead from her
at the turn, but could not manage it.
Home Thrust (2 to 1), bred by her
owner, Herbert Thompson, and Dubonnet
(6 to 4 on) won their divisions of the
Juvenile Handicap. Home Thrust, a
Spearhead—Cadenza filly, was never in
danger of defeat, but Dubonnet’s backers
got a scare when Compass turned for
home with a big lead. She wilted in the
straight, and Dubonnet, who is by
Tippler—Tanjore, and is trained by
young Bill McLachlan, finished like an
old stager.
Although only five faced the barrier in
the Ashbury Handicap, each candidate
received good support. Flamari and
Sally were joint favorites at 5 to 2, and
the former, leading throughout, beat the
mare comfortably. Babili, the third
horse, would have been dangerous but
for a very bad buffeting. Flamari was
expertly ridden by Charlie Maher, a son
of former jockey Percy Maher, whose
weight keeps him out of the saddle a lot.
=K * * *
John Wren has a two-year-old by Pan-
theon —Credit. As a tribute to his one-
time political idol in Queensland and his
present-day partner in Fiji goldmining
shows, he has called the colt Theodore.
Wouldn’t Fiduciary Ted be more appro-
priate?
* * * *
Maurice McCarten has gone to law
against A. L. H. Hopkins, described as
“proprietor of a Sydney sporting paper” ;
he claims £5OOO damages, alleging libel
in a criticism of his riding of Silver
Jubilee in the Moorefield Gold Cup.
While he was in Melbourne, the jockey,
through his solicitors, got a Supreme
Court order for disclosure of “the name
and address of the person who supplied
the article”—a provision retained iri
N.S.W. libel law, although by no means
universal.
In Melbourne Keith Voitre and P. B.
Quinlan have been parties to libel actions
against one Vockler, in whose print there
were aspersions on the riding and run-
ning of Link Divine in the Burwood
Handicap at Caulfield. Vockler and his
printers apologised, and the cases have
been withdrawn. - >;
* >K * * 1
J. M. Dunningham, who was a -book-
maker, knows more about racing than
the rest of the N.S.W. Ministers put to-
gether ; so naturally his advice is not
asked when the Government meditates
racing legislation. Spooner was respon-
sible for the,tax on bookmakers, which
has worked badly ; now Chaffey is to in-
troduce amendments to the Gaming and
Betting Act, such as further restrictions
on starting-price betting and “a clause
to prohibit tipping of winners”—that is
how it is put. > Buying tips is a mug’s
game; still a . Government which runs
lotteries has no business to be bringing
in laws to prevent fools from indulging
in this other form of folly. There is a
growing feeling that restrictive laws and
regulations are being carried much too
far, and the tipsters will find defenders.
* . * * ' *
“Flutter”: Adelaide’s reputation for
holiness has been smirched since betting
shops were legalised. Now a commission
has been appointed to consider the ques-
tion of a Government lottery, and has
been assured that income tax would be
reduced by 10 p.c. if this particular
gamble were added to the others. N. S.
Wales taxpayers heard much the same
tale when N. S. Wales started in the lot-
tery business, but if there has been any
reduction of taxes in consequence no one
has noticed it.
* * * *
There is no easier way of losing money
than backing doubles for big races. After
Williamstown, Young Idea became fav-
orite for the Newmarket, and was coupled
in many wagers with Sylvandale, who had
been a popular pick for the Australian
Cup since the declaration of the weights.
Within 48 hours Sylvandale was out of
the Cup, and yesterday week, when first
acceptances became due, Young Idea was
withdrawn from the Newmarket. With
Peter Pan an unlikely starter in Mel-
bourne, and Hall Mark so sore that he
has been scratched for all Victorian en-
gagements, the Sylvandale people natur-
ally think that reserving their horse for
w.f.a. races is a better proposition than
obliging him to carry 9st. 91b. over two
miles and a quarter. The Young Idea
partners have been influenced by the
decline in the competition to their colt in
the St. Leger. It is questionable policy
all the same, since Young Idea, though
a fine bold galloper up to a mile and a
quarter, is a doubtful quantity as a
stayer.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The V.R.C. is introducing
cricket methods into its racing. It
intends to put up a sight screen behind
the barrier used for “straight” six fur-
longs races. This is expected to give the
spectators at the other end a good squint
of the colors, which at present are hard
to make out at that distance, especially
if there is a big field, as in the New-
market.
* * * *
The A.J.C. committee did racing no
service when it took former Sydney pony
clubs under its wing. It would have
been immeasurably better to let them go
on unrecognised until circumstances be-
came favorable to wiping proprietary
concerns out and substituting amateur
clubs, such as Williamstown and Moonee
Valley. The “sport” furnished on some
of these courses is now worse, if any-
thing, than it was in the worst of the
unregistered days. Runts race for small
stakes, fields are generally poor and
daring things are done.
At Ascot a trainer named Hobby had
four of his string in the second division
of the Fourteen-two Handicap. He
scratched two on the course; had he
taken them out before acceptances
closed, Maryland, formerly trained by
him, would have been transferred to the
first division. There were eight runners:
Maryland was favorite at 6 to 4 on, and
Enjoyment next at 9to 4 against; 10 to
1 bar two. McShortodds knew best:
Maryland won by six lengths; Enjoyment
was second and Behala, one of Hobby’s,
third, a neck away. The stewards dis-
qualified Behala and all connected with
her —Hobby, his wife, registered as
owner, and his apprentice jockey, Middle-
miss—for two years.
* * * *
“Surry”: In the Doncaster Handicap
of April 4, 1896, first, second and third
horses were ridden by Delaneys—Cour-
allie by J. Delaney, True Blue by A.
Delaney and Response by W. Delaney.
Any Bulletin reader know of a similar
occurrence?
* * * *
“Retired Urger”: Some of the North-
ern Rivers (N.S.W.) racing clubs, which
used to be flourishing little institutions,
have been feeling the pinch of hard times
and bowelless taxation imposts. A meet-
ing of interested parties was held at Lis-
more recently, but the best suggestion
anyone could think of was that an en-
deavor should be made to bite the ear
of the unhappy A.J.C. for £4OO. One
of the chief causes of the failure of
owners and trainers to enter their horses
is poor prize-money. In some of
these country events a trainer, after pay-
ing nomination, acceptance fees, etc., to
say nothing of his feed and wages bill,
too often finds himself out of pocket
after he has won the race. One reason
for the paltriness of the prize-money is
the multiplication of clubs. Amalgama-
tion is overdue.
$ # * *
It is a long time since a first-class
galloper came from Tasmania to the
mainland, but the Speck has produced
a nailing good pacer in Logan Derby, by
Globe Derby—Belle Logan. One of the
utility ’orses from all the States and
Maoriland in Perth for the inter-
Dominion championships, for which the
prize-money amounts to £4OOO, besides
£2lOO for handicap events (fancy any
Sydney concern in the proprietary-racing
business hanging up £6lOO for one lot
of meetings!), Logan Derby scored in his
first two races at Gloucester (formerly
Brennan)' Park and made a great impres-
sion. There, on different days, he won
his divisions of the mile championship,
recording 2min. 9fsec. from scratch;
of the mile and a half (at a'2min. 12sec.
rate), and of the two miles (at 2min.
12jsec.), in each case with a lot in hand.
He is a five-year-old stallion —young as
pacers go.
The “grand final” (worth £l5OO Aus-
tralian, plus a 100-guinea cup) is to be
held to-night. Whatever the result of
the actual race, the title of “grand cham-
pion” will be determined by a council
representing four States and Maoriland
on the basis of points gained throughout
the series, for placings and times in divi-
sions and “grand final”: three points
each for first and for fastest time ; two
points each for second and for second-
fastest. time ; one point each for third
and for third-fastest time. It is a fine
sporting venture altogether, and J. P.
Stratton, president of the W.A.T.A., who
conceived the idea, has every reason for
satisfaction with results.
Winning the toss at Johannesburg,
South Africa had 80 up without loss
(Siedle 44, Wade 31). Then O’Reilly
(0-7) returned to the crease, and in an
hour or so they were all out for 157
(O’Reilly 5-20, Grimmett 3-70, McCor-
mick 2-37). Australia was 3 for 185 at
stumps: Brown 34, McCabe 40, Fingle-
ton 108 —in 113 minutes.
* * * *
Enter Westralia as the premier swim-
ming State, thanks to Nankiville, Oliver,
Miss de Lacey and Miss Grace Brown,
a diver. All four have distinguished
themselves at the Australian champion-
ships, and if a team of girl swimmers
is sent to Berlin Miss de Lacey, Claire
Dennis and Pat Norton have the strongest
claims.
* * ❖ *
After losing the first four Tests, Eng-
land’s motor-cycle speed team came to
light at Sydney Showground on Satur-
day night, winning by 39 points to 32.
Max Grosskreutz topped off a great
season by making his total of wins 19
out of 20 starts.
(,Sporting Notions continued on next
page.).
FOR CAULFIELD.
Woodcliff Handicap: Palfresco ;
next, Viceroy.
Futurity Stakes: Closing Time ;
next, Cuddle.
Hawksburn Handicap: Young
Idea; next, Heritor.


M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“S.G.”: The Palmer-Henneberry fight
has twice been postponed for family
reasons. First Henneberry’s father died,
and then Palmer’s mother. Well-wishers
of both boys and of Australian boxing
won’t be sorry if they never meet. They
are fine boxers and good Australians ;
but in America, where match-making
has been reduced to a science, a mill
between a middleweight and a heavy-
weight, each a champion in his division,
wouldn’t be thought of.
$ $ i\i $
“Coloriel Bungstarter”: A delightful
old-time touch comes in a far-back
correspondent’s account to the N.Q.
“Register” of what happened to him after
an amateur boxing tournament:
This scribe was busily engaged correct-
ing his notes when he was the victim of
an attack by some person who was loiter-
ing within the premises of the Stadium.
Writer was struck from behind, knocked
to the floor and booted, and if the
manager of the Stadium had not seen his
predicament the case might have been
more serious. The person responsible
escaped through a side door.
Shades of the dear old past! How it
recalls the time at Mick Nathan’s Re-
fined Boxing Hall when Tut Ryan threw
a reporter at the referee!
* * Jfi >Jc
“80P”: The latest in wrestling “holts”
comes from Westralia. First, grapple
your opponent (the grip is immaterial),
work him over to the ropes, get a lump
of rope, twist it round his neck and pro-
ceed to strangle him. The difficulty is
to get slack enough to fit what the
wrastler is pleased to call his neck.
Ins and Outs
“Tippoo”: When the v Tarrantulas’
match against India at Madras was an-
nounced as positively the last there was
some lamentation because Oxenham, un-
Bert I Youve it » "
Gep?t.‘ * Where did it eo? "
Bert ’ " Over the fekce
Gert ' 11 Good; Don't they ca,ll That
a. Boundary ? "
able to play, had lost tns cTiance of get-
ting his 100 wickets for the tour. The
gods interposed with another match at
Mysore, which enabled the Queens-
lander to turn the trick. His figures
for the tour are 101 at 8.20, a record
for a touring bowler in India. Mair took
71 at 19.42, Leather 56 at' 16.40.
Ryder headed the batting with 1121 runs
and an average of 48.69. Then came Bill,
43.52, and Morrisby, 41.35. Of the 22
matches played 11 were won, three lost
and eight drawn. Had it not been for
severe illness and accident, such as in-
capacitated Allsopp and Ironmonger for
most of the trip and Bill and Macart-
ney for some time, the team would prob-
ably have had an unbeaten record. The
Australians made 11 centuries: Ryder
four, Bill three, Morrisby two and Mac-
artney and Bryant one each.
* * * *
“Atteram”: Charlie Deverson has been
the chief subject of cricket talk in Adel-
aide since his sensational bowling for
Port Adelaide v. Kensington: 5 for 16 ;
Bradman, b. Deverson, 0. He has got
Bradman’s wicket four times ; for S.A. v.
N.S.W. at Sydney in November, 1930, he
dismissed the champion in each innings.
Deverson bowls fast-medium, and has
turned 30. In 12 years he has taken 243
wickets at 21.7 ; his batting average is
12.3.
s’: * * *
The Rhodesian cricketers got a poor
return for their pluck in bringing the
Australians the long and expensive jour-
ney to Bulawayo, where less than 50
years ago they might have been received
with assegais and sticky accompaniments.
Lo Ben’s old kraal did the visitors proud,
but the dismissal of McCabe for a duck
after most of Rhodesia had motored in
to see him bat was Disaster No. 1. Rain,
which washed out the match, was Disas-
ter No. 2. In what cricket there was the
Australians rattled up 357, Darling scor-
ing 108 and Brown 97. Hayward’s bowl-
ing (4-34) impressed the tourists..
Rhodesia batted briskly for 157 for 4
wickets, showing a callous disregard for
the reputations of O’Reilly and his
cobbers.
•S’ *l*
“Hout”: When the cricket addict sees
the umpire’s arm raised at a slanting
angle after an appeal by the bowler, he
is advised that the whitecoat is not giving
way to his Nazi feelings, but using the
new signal for “out l.b.w. (n)” under the
breaking-ball rule. The mystic letter in
parenthesis stands for “new,” and signi-
fies that an experiment which has been
tried in England off and on for the past
six years is now an experiment no longer.
“Ex-Englishman”: “Aigburth” (B.
22/1/’36) condemns the intentional bowl-
ing of wides as “pettifogging.” If a
thing is within the rules, what authority
has he to condemn it? True, it might
be a point overlooked in framing them ;
but this one isn’t —the one-run penalty
was expressly fixed long ago as adequate
to meet and discourage it. If Human
really gave away 24 to get the fancied
advantage of a new ball, it may have
been bad strategy, but it is no worse
than that. Has “Aigburth” never given
his opponent at billiards one point in
the hope of thereby making a winning
break?
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland’s batting
averages are headed by Tallon with 55.88.
The best bowling figures are Gilbert’s—
-19 wickets at 36.84. The cricket
chronicler of one of the Brisbane dailies
put as' good a face upon Queensland’s
position on the Shield table as possible:
remarking that the State occupied fourth
place, he passed on to other things. It
recalls jockey Tom Walls in “The
Arcadians” when asked if he had ever
won a race. He replied, “No, but I got
a place once; there were only three
starters.” There are only four starters
in the Sheffield Shield competition.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The ancients in control
of Queensland cricket have done some
idiotic things in their time, but their latest
idea of improving Queensland cricket is
their record performance. They suggest
the importation of a horde of players,
among the names suggested being actu-
ally those of cullud gemmum Constan-
tine from the West Indies and Nourse
from South Africa. This importing of
players to save the authorities the trouble
of seeking out and coaching native talent
has been the curse of Queensland cricket
ever since the Graziers’ Butchering Club
imported practically two elevens of
N.S.W. and Victorian failures some 40-
odd years ago. The policy has been
adhered to ever since. A drastic purge
of the Q.C.A. is imperative.
Sji i\i K
“Tenth Slip”: A queer cricket happen-
ing cropped up in a Sydney grade match.
Howell, of Central Cumberland, hit a
ball which was taken by a fieldsman, and,
thinking he was caught, walked out. It
was not a catch, but the umpire had no
power to recall Howell or warn him of
his mistake. The only rule touching the
matter seems to be in instructions to um-
pires: “Save as provided by the laws,
the umpires have no right to interfere in
the progress of the game except on
appeal.” As the laws are dumb on this
subject a careless batsman giving himself
out without appeal has to carry the baby.
* * T *
“Toombul”: Though he declines to
play in big cricket since his row with the
Q.C.A., Hornibrook seems to be bowl-
ing as well as ever. His last three club
performances have been 6-55, 6-38 and
8-41. Recently he topped the late C.
BarstowV record for Brisbane club
cricket by taking his six hundred and
sixty-sixth wicket, and was presented with
some silverplate by his club.
* * ■ * *
“Jolimont”: The rigid regimentation
of sport nowadays has become a weari-
ness of the flesh, and the wonder is that
anyone but the players on the make cares
to play at all. A good example is the
case of the Victorian Sheffield team
after the players’ return to Melbourne
from a wearisome trip as far as Brisbane.
They had been away 19 days, and
travelled some thousands of miles, yet on
arrival all were notified that they were
expected to play for their clubs in pen-
nant' matches on the day they arrived.
Four, including skipper Ebeling, went
home. ,
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Athelstone soil,” from a
village in the foothills behind Adelaide,
has acquired an almost superstitious
value in S.A. for the making of cricket
pitches. Adelaide Oval uses nothing else,
and now supplies it, “free on trucks at
Adelaide,” for many country centres
which are tiring of concrete and matting.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: South Australia’s win
in the Sheffield Shield tourney this year
was overdue, the Wheatfielders having
last pouched it in the 1926-27 season. If
one goes back further it is revealed that
the bauble has reposed in Adelaide only
five times since the competition opened
in 1892. N.S.W. has won the trophy 20
times and Victoria 15. Queensland has
yet to get it to Brisbane.
* * * :[:
“Woogaroo”: In the long ago the M.O.
at Goodna (Q.) was a keen cricketer,
and with the help of patients he laid out
an attractive cricket ground near the
river, which winds past the hospital.
Clubs from Brisbane were welcomed on
holidays and bye-days, and * hospitably
dealt with. Several of the patients and
warders were first-class cricketers, and a
good day’s fun was always assured. One
day an out-fieldsman of the home side
brought off a miraculous catch after a
run of many yards. The thunders of
applause from the big crowd that fol-
lowed went to the hero’s head. Still cling-
ing to the ball, he went into top gear
and, reaching the river, dived in. He
swam across, disappeared into the forest
on the other side and did not return to
the fold for some days.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Baffy”: Jim Ferrier has departed for
Britain, taking with him the good wishes
of the golfing community. His first
appearance in the big stuff will be in the
Scottish amateur championship at Car-
noustie —he is the first Australian to dare
this tourney —on July 17. In addition
to the British amateur and open events,
Ferrier will enter for the Irish title, which
will wind up his tour. No Australian
golfer—and the list includes players of
the standard of Whitton, Nettlefold and
Rufus Stewart—has aroused such wide-
spread interest in his attempts on British
championships.
“Divot Digger”: The Ma State pro-
fessional golfers made a graceful gesture
in presenting Jim Ferrier with a foun-
tain pen on the eve of his departure for
Britain. This was accompanied by a
warm letter of appreciation, wishing the
youngster the best of good fortune on
his venture--and in golf the best of
players have often reason to be grateful
for a little helping of Lady Luck.
“Hoylake”: Jim Ferrier will meet an-
other infant prodigy in British golf—
-18-year-old Bobby Locke. Locke won
the open title of South Africa from Sid
Brews, who proved himself among the
best in Britain and the U.S.A., besides
holding the French championship. To
have defeated this veteran Locke must
be of exceptional class.
*:::**
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. amateur
golf championship will come off on the
Australian club course, beginning on
June 27, the conditions to be published
later. With Ferrier out of the way, some
of our aspiring champions should shake
off that inferiority complex as they fill
in their entry forms. At last the Golf
Council has awakened to the fact that
the junior championships staged in every
other golfing country in the world are
not a bad idea, and there will be a N. S.
Wales tourney at The Lakes on May 2.
* * ■ * *
“Lakeside”: From his U.S.A. fast-
nesses Sarazen is trumpeting defiance to
all Australian golfers, professionals
especially. He will be here in time for
the Australian championships, including
the open ; also he will take on any and
all challengers in singles for a side wager
“for money or otherwise.” Part of his
tour will be devoted to lectures on golf,
illustrated by slow-motion pictures.
* * * *
“Wooden Nutmeg”: The unexpectedly
early return of our golfers from the
U.S.A. seems to have been due entirely
to lack of funds. Our men were told
that U.S.A. sellers of golf goods would
rush them with baksheesh for adver-
tising their goods, but this proved an
empty dream. The Australians, of
course, had to pay for their own trans-
port and accommodation, but a hurdle
none of them expected was the entrance
fee of £5 exacted from every player tak-
ing part in a tourney.
* , * * *
“Carse”: What promises to be the
record long-distance golf match is in
progress on a course near Swindon in
England. It is only to end when one of
the two rivals, Chamberlain and New,
becomes too old to swing a club or
shuffles off this mortal coil. The match
—for a silver pot —has been raging since
1922. New, the elder of the two, is 900
strokes to the good at present, but Cham-
berlain, a lad of 73, says he has plenty
of time to catch up. Meanwhile, the
player with the best aggregate card at
the end of each year holds the pot for
the time being.
* 4* sic *
“Huon”: Tasmania’s autumn open
golf tourney will be a double-barrelled
affair. The show will run from March
28 to April 6, and the first title event
will be the open championship of
Southern Tasmania at Kingston Beach
on March 31. The Northern Tasmanian
title will be fought for at King’s
Meadows, Launceston, on April 4. There
will be handicaps and professional events
as well, but no mention is made of a
grand final between the two ends of the
tight little island to settle supremacy.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The inter-State tennis
conference in Melbourne has agreed to
Tasmania’s motion that the Australian
championships be played in Tasmania,
Westralia and Queensland once every
12 years, provided suitable courts are
available. How the innovation will be
fitted in with the present annual meet-
ings in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
has so far been left to the imagination.
% % * *
“Footfault”: There may be a chance
of Australia returning that long-overdue
tennis visit to Japan (B. 12/2/’36). The
Japanese cabled asking the Australians
to call in on their way to America. That
(Continued on next page.)


It is the Purest of all Gin Spirits
fv
WOLFES
CStWEDAB
SCHNAPPS
...and the most health-
giving of all drinks
WOLFES
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
For that tired feeling
Be well advised by an
acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range !
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. B—HOLLIS’8 —HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L. SPECIAL, DECK
GUN, 12G., 34in. steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, especially built for lieavj
charges and lontr distance shooting; similar
in appearance to the No. 3; #
weight, about 841 b Xlo/5/“
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
Solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and 10.
fore-end pistol grip, walnut _ »
stock; weight, about 71b Xl4/IU/“
Carriage Paid.
No. 10—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
as No. 9, superior quality and
finish; side clips *’ iu / °/
Carriage Paid.
No. 15.—MIDLAND GUN CO. “SPECIAL”
D.8.8.L. HAMMER GUN, 12G., top lever,
32in. barrels, right modified, left full, bar
locks, solid strikers, matted rib, nitro proof,
pistol grip, X bolt; chambered for 2j
inch cartridges; weight,
about 7Jlb XIU/IU/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 20—CERT D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels, choke.
Greener cross bolt (A. and D. £6/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. I—HARRINGTON & RICHARDSON’S
STEVEN’S RIVERSIDE, or IVOR JOHN-
SON’S 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12G., top action,
automatic self-ejecting, steel barrel, solid,
case-hardened, pistol grip, walnut gr- /
stock; weight of gun about C11b... DO/*
Carriage Paid.
The New
“ LIGHTNING ”
Super Charge 12-gauge
dsf
sdf
Cartridges,
19/6 per 100
A 2Jin. charge in a
2£in. shell. Game
results are assured
with “Lightning.”
Sporting
RIFLES
No. B—STEVENS' SPRINGFIELD
S.S. RIFLE, MODEL 53, 22-cal.,
holt action, 22in. round barrel, gold
bead front and ladder rear qj- /
sight; weight, about 421 b. 00/ -
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 12— WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long or long-rifle rimflre cart-
ridges; 27in. round steel barrel, one-
piece pistol grip stock, safety bolt
Mauser type, ladder rear and metal
bead front sight; weight, . /
about 4O/■
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
sd
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT KIFLE, MODEL 3,
22-cal., 24in. round steel
barrel, bolt action; bandies
short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; gold bead front and
adjustable rear sight, pistol
oidn Clfrtnlr • TTTftlCpVlf
grip stock; weight,
about 4}lb
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAXMARKET, SIDNEY, & All Branches.
being impossible, the A.L.T.A. has asked
if a call on the way back from Wimble-
don will do. As the team may be with-
out McGrath, that seems hardly accept-
able to Nippon. A grateful announce-
ment has been made that players’ allow-
ances have been increased from 12s. 6d.
and 15s. to £1 a day while on the tour.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: An abstruse point which
may go to the Privy Council for decision
is whether the patent tout-en-cas courts
are hard or grass courts. The question
arises because some clubs with the
patent courts desire to play in the
N.S.W.L.T.A. badge matches, which are
supposed to be for grasshoppers only.
The L.T.A. played it both ways. The
applicants will be allowed to affiliate
with the grass-court crowd, which will
permit them to play badge tennis, but
will also have to sweeten the hard-
couriers by affiliation with them.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The hard- and grass-
courts tennis players are biting thumbs
at each other in N.S.W. again. The
Netherlands Indies asked for a visit from
two Australian players, naming Brom-
wich and Huxley. The invitation came
to the N.S.W. association, and that body
referred the matter to the A.L.T.A., advis-
ing that two other players be sent. As
both boys are leading hard-courts players
there has been talk of oppression and
insult. Also the hardcourters have
snortingly declined an invitation from the
grassies for a special match between the
two bodies, and anything may happen
any time.
* Hs * *
“Kooyong”: Our Davis Cup team
leaves by the Niagara on March 26 and
reaches Vancouver on April 17. The
first round against Cuba begins on May
7—where, is not settled: Havana, New
Orleans and Kansas City have been
suggested. All matches will be played on
hard courts,, and pessimists here are
talking of this being unfair, which
is tosh. All our players play half their
tennis on hard courts, and as long as
they don’t have to hop from grass to
hard and vice versa will be O.K.
During the month of training—in Syd-
ney, not in Melbourne —all play will be
on the hard stuff.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Once more the Davis.
Cup heads have changed their plans.
The team is now to do its month’s pre-
liminary training in Sydney instead of
Melbourne. The idea is that they will
save time and travelling, since all but
Quist live in Sydney. It' looks like a
deep N.S.W. scheme to get some profit-
able exhibition displays out of the
players, a request to that effect having
been turned down by the A.L.T.A. It
would be easy to seize manager Sproule
some fine evening and, putting his head
in a bag, to immure him somewhere in
the fastnesses of Middle Harbor until
a couple of electric-light matches were
played. The Australian crowd would
probably kick like Gehenna, but Ma
would have the gate-money —and what
else would matter?
* * H= *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A pleasing varia-
tion on tennis is reported from Won-
thaggi (Vic.). Instead of racquets players
use fryingpans, and the challenges are
flying thick and fast, quite wiping out
wheelbarrow-riding, which still lingers in
the remoter fastnesses of the Cabbage
Garden. One enterprising storekeeper
has offered to supply free fryingpans for
tournaments. The next step will prob-
ably be the substitution of onions or
potatoes for the ordinary tennis ball, the
loser to cook and eat the missiles in and
from his racquet before leaving the
courts.
* * * *
“Stade Roland”: Borotra retained his
three titles —singles, doubles and mixed
doubles—in the French covered courts
championships at Paris. His partners
were Destremeau, a colt he is proclaim-
ing as a coming world champion, and
Mile. Tribarne, in Jean’s eyes an-
other Lenglen. The ancient has now won
52 of these championships. He may
never be defeated until in some distant
year his feet get tangled in his flowing
beard and he is carried off the courts a
cot case.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The meeting of the Ma
State L.T. council produced some criti-
cism of the people running the Cochet
tour in the country. One delegate said
the Australian professionals had been
“hoodwinked” at some centres, and at
one drew only 10s. each, after deduc-
tions had been made. They were lucky
compared with some professionals. In
the old pedestrian days it was no uncom-
mon thing to see a ped who had won a
good race given a couple of bob by his
gaffer and told not to make a beast of
himself.
Miscellaneous
Nominations for the job of honorary
manager of the Australian Olympic team
close with secretary-treasurer Eve on
February 28. Any office-bearer of a
State athletic organisation is eligible, but
must be nominated by a member of the
Olympic Federation. The appointment
will be made at the Federation confer-
ence in Melbourne on March 13, and
the personnel of the Olympic team will
be announced at the same time. The
Mongolia, by which the team will travel,
leaves Sydney with the Ma Staters and
Bananalanders on May 13, picking up
the others of the team on the way west.
si: * *
“Gaspard”: One odd thing about
athletes is their disinclination to pay
membership and similar fees. The Aus-
tralian Olympic Federation four years
ago decided on a levy on all athletic club
members —sixpence per head per year.
By this there should have been £l6OO in
the sock, which, with the Government
subsidy, would have given the Federa-
tion £3200 to start with. So far only
£450 has been paid. Athletics, a branch
which numbers its members in thou-
sands, has done best, but with a
paltry £195. At the other end of the
list is rowing, with a contribution of nix.
* * * *
“Blade”: For the first time, Sydney’s
G.P.S. boatraces will be rowed on
the Nepean at Penrith. The date
fixed, April 18, is earlier than usual, and
was decided on only by a chairman’s
casting vote.
“Cent.”: Years ago lads rowing in
G.P.S. boatraces were seldom heard of
in rowing afterwards. The reverse is
now the case. At the N.S.W. State cham-
pionships Mosman had seven ex-G.P.S.
oarsmen in the boat. The winners,
Police, had four and Sydney one.
* * * *
Ireland made a good start in the
British Rugby internationals by beating
England 6-3 at Dublin. As England was
held to a draw with Wales and Wales
beat Scotland at Murrayfield, the
wearers of the green have a good sporting
chance of holding on to their champion-
ship ; a win over Scotland or the Taffies
will turn the trick for them. The cable
tells us that the Irish forwards were too
good for the Sassenach pack which
routed the All-Blacks.
* * * *
“Shell”: Cecil Pearce, victorious in
the N.S.W. champion sculls over Turner,
several times Australian and State cham-
pion, is to meet him again in an Olym-
pic test race over 2000 metres on the
Parramatta on Feb. 29. A big man like
cousin Bob, the new State champion is
very like him in appearance, though not
so finished in style. Both Cecil and Bob
were trained by the latter’s father, Harry,
Australian professional champion in his
day.
* * * H=
“Gate”: Dave Brown, about the best
centre the N.S.W. Rugby League has
dug up, has attracted the attention of
the English Northern Union Circe, who
is at her old game of enticing our best
and bravest professional footballers to
her rather grimy isle of enchantment.
To drop metaphor, Brown is being offered
a £l6OO bonus for a four years’ engage-
ment, with £6 for every match, win, tie
or wrangle. The Ma State League is
doing its best to keep the champion here,
but the English money is very tempting,
and Ma has only £7OO in its “retention”
fund, designed to meet such cases as this.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Billy Hill, spokesman of
the N.S.W. delegation to the Empire
Rugby conference in London, is due in
Sydney on February 24, and will tell the
R.U. all about it the same night.
Rumors say that the only concrete thing
done was the decision to appoint a joint
committee to consider proposals made
by the Dominions, especially Australia
and M.L.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Rugby Union, now.
firmly established in Melbourne, has
decided to get a ground of its own
and equip it with proper clubhouse,
stands and dressing-rooms. A limited-
liability co. will provide the funds. The
Union is also buildine additional train-
ing-rooms at Middle Park, where it was
using seven playing areas last season.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby Union,
having decided that the other Australian
Rugby States shall join it in a triangular
series of matches in Sydney, has fixed
the dates. The opening game will be
between two N.S.W. XVs and Victoria
and Queensland at S.C.G. and Manly
respectively on July 4. On July 8 Vic-
toria and Bananaland clash at Manly,
and on the Saturday following Ma meets
Queensland at the Cricket Ground and
Victoria at Manly or Parramatta. It is
officially stated that both Victoria and
Queensland prefer this Sydney holiday
to visits from N.S.W. in their own States.
Writer ventures to doubt the assertion,
and more will probably be heard of the
matter from Melbourne and Brisbane.
* * * *
“Round Ball”: Australia looks like
being flooded out with alien bands of
Soccer footballers this year. Russia,
Austria and New Caledonia are among
the applicants for an invitation, but
whether they can all be fitted in is an-
other matter. The Russian offer has been
tentatively accepted provided difficulties
can be overcome ; the chief of them is
finance. Maoriland has asked an Aus-
tralian team to go there this season, and
the South Australians are talking of an
All-Australia Soccer tourney in Septem-
ber in connection with the centenary
spree.
|
“Fitzcray”: Victorian League football
starts on May 2. In future, remember
that the game must be styled “Australian
Football,” the word “Rules” having been
cut out after long years of service.
* * * *
“Bo”: Following on a record number
of objections and protests, the yachting
carnival in Brisbane was marred by a
first-class rumpus over the disqualifica-
tion by the Sailing Committee of the
R.Q.Y.C. of the Queensland yacht
Gwylan in the Forster Cup races. An
appeal to the controlling body, the
R.Y.A. of G. 8., is certain, and the de-
cision will decide the destiny of the cup
for 1936. Should the appeal be dis-
missed, Tassie Too will secure it with a
total points score of 14. She was skip-
pered by W. P. Bat't, who has a wonder-
ful record in these races. Incidentally,
the carnival spelt the retirement of Harry
Batt, skipper of Tassie 111.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The lilywhite sport-
ing organisations are getting dashed care-
ful with the approach of the Berlin Olym-
piad. All amateur swimming clubs have
been notified that any of their members
taking part in a surf race in which a pro-
fessional appears are liable to disquali-
fication. The risk is that the discovery
at the Olympiad that some competitor
had committed this sin would cause the
disqualification not only of the individual
offender but of everyone representing the
same country.


Effect
Your LIFE
Assurances with
15he
NATIONAL MUTUAL
The Largest Mutual Office in Australasia conducting
business on the “Ordinary” Premium basis only.
EVERY POLICY-HOLDER
IS A PARTNER
THERE are No Shareholders
Any Quotation Furnished on Request
U/ie
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
Off ices i Oswald St. Clair,
350 George Street, Sydney. Manager.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Where N.Z.P.F. Bondholders Stand
In Melbourne there has been a hulla-
baloo over the separation of New
Zealand Perpetual Forest bondholders
from the promoting co. (N.Z.P.F., which
sold bondholders the land, pine seed-
lings, labor and necessary maintenance)
and the conversion of bonds into shares
in N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
The flurry is mainly because at this
late stage people are awakening to the
fact that bondholders have a speculative
and uncertain future. Right from the
beginning most people had a distorted
and overcolored view of the prospects
and rights attached to these bonds.
Bondholders have never had any equity
in the funds of N.Z.P.F. The position
is entirely one of contractee and con-
tractor. Provided the bond-selling co.
carries out its job to the letter, that is
the end of it. The job, as provided in
the contract, is to plant and maintain
the pine-trees for a certain period, and
to hand them over to bondholders.
Bonds, as this paper has said for years
past, are an undesirable and cumber-
some form of finance. It is plain to a
lot of people now that, instead of £3O
or thereabouts an acre, a share-financed
co. could have planted and maintained
Pinus insignis for 20 years for about £l6
an acre at the most —granted freedom
from fires, earthquakes, etc. But if bond-
holders agreed to pay £3O an acre at the
beginning, they are in no different posi-
tion from the person who agrees to pay
30s. for a 20-months-old poddy calf which
someone has reared at a cost of 16s.
It has been indicated that, in order
to market the timber, more capital will
be necessary, and a preference share issue
by the new bondholders’ co. has been
suggested. One thing people are asking
is, Why should new capital be necessary
when the old N.Z.P.F. Co. has so much
money?
However this may be answered, bond-
holders have no legal claim on the funds
of N.Z.P.F. once it has carried out its
contract. The contract for maintenance
does not cease with the formation of
bondholders into a separate co. The
full stipulated period must be completed.
But the “£5OO return” estimates were no-
thing more than estimates. There was
mention of N.Z.P.F. lending part of its
funds in order to help bondholders
market their timber, but the obligation
here, at the most, is to advance money
on security.
The present scheme of separating bond-
holders from shareholders was suggested
by a commission appointed by the Maori-
land Government. While they remained
bondholders, the holders of N.Z.P.F.
forest contracts represented an unwieldy
body; any voice in the control of their
forests would have made them an illegal
partnership. Their legal standing in
many other ways was doubtful. In fairness
to the propounders of the conversion
scheme, if bondholders are disappointed
now it is principally because they mis-
understood the contract they were enter-
ing into at the beginning—a misunder-
standing which The Bulletin devoted
a great deal of space to prevent long
before many of the present holders took
up bonds.
Timberlands Woodpulp, now Whaka-
tane Paper Mills, pooled its entire re-
sources with bondholders at the recon-
struction in 1933, shareholders in the old
co. getting a bigger whack of scrip out
of the new one. But even this concern
has had to seek additional outside capital
in order to finance milling and marketing.
It would be a generous act on the part
of old N.Z.P.F. shareholders to throw
in their lot with bondholders on a similar
basis. Many people may think that, con-
sidering the grotesque misapprehensions
under which some persons took up
bonds, there is a moral obligation on
the co. to do so. But if the co. takes a
strictly legal stand there isn’t a great
deal in it; and, after all, some of the
present shareholders have paid over £3
for the £1 shares.
Is the present buoyant industrial-share
market safe? High prices are only jus-
tified where prospects of individual com-
panies merit them. Many stocks are
worth present money, perhaps more.
But returns of 3 p.c. and under —well,
it’s asking much of the future, in some
cases.
* * * *
With an interim div. at rate of 5 p.c.,
as against 2\ p.c. interim last year and
a final at rate of 1\ p.c., Sargents (Syd-
ney) has been one of the few disappoint-
ments of early 1936. From a specula-
tive price of over 275., the shares fell
to 255. 9d. last week. Still, the financial
year hasn’t closed yet.
* * * *
Building activity in Melbourne during
1935 was within 10 p.c. of that of 1929 —
a great recovery. New dwellings erected
were equal to 88.9 p.c. of the number
put up in the last boom year ; all other
types measured up to 93.8 p.c. Rentals
are rising, and vacant shops in the city
and busier shopping centres practically
don’t exist.
* * * *
The Austral Bronze Co., Sydney, has
installed a 1500-ton extrusion press for
turning out rods, bars, etc., of brass,
bronze and alloys. The public was in-
terested in this concern until 1929, when
Metal Manufactures Pty., Ltd., acquired
control of the scrip. The new plant will
be capable of making shell bands, if
necessary, for naval and military pur-
poses.
* * * *
Australia’s favorable trade balance for
the six months ended Dec. 31 was £10.3
millions sterling, against £4.8 millions for
the same period of the preceding year.
“That foreman gives me a pain. Drop y’r ’ammer on ’im, Joe."
“ ’Ammer ain’t ’eavy enough."
Imports increased £5.4 millions, as
against a rise of £10.9 millions in exports.
Net bullion and specie exports accounted
for £5.9 millions of the surplus, as against
£4.5 millions in 1934-35. The balance
for the next half-year will need to be
a trifle more favorable if external in-
terest costs are to be paid out of current
revenue.
* * * *
The outlook for copper prices is the
best for some years. Despite war acti-
vity, normal commercial consumption in
Britain (where the record quantity of
250,000 tons a year is being used) and
Japan is having a definite influence in
the price. Mount Morgan (Q.) produced
840 tons of the metal last year.
n * * *
The drop in silver (from over 3s. stg.
per fine ounce at one stage last year to
Is. 9d. last week) has affected the shares
of North Broken Hill, a greater producer
of the metal than the South. South
and Zinc Corp. shares have had the most
stable market recently.
* * * *
Average London price of lead for 1935
was £l4 ss. Bd., as against £ll Is. in
1934. From July 1 (when the financial
periods of North Broken Hill and B.H.
South commence) the mean was nearer
£l6. Zinc at £l4 3s. 6d. in 1935 com-
pared with £l3 15s. 6d. in 1934 and
£l5 14s. lid. in 1933.
* * * *
Wool sold in Sydney during the week
ended February 7 averaged 16d. per
pound, a record for the season. The
fleece was a trifle weightier than in previ-
ous weeks.
* * * #
Increased div. rates have been frequent.
Carlton Brewery (Melb.) has lifted its
from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c. p.a. ; Cash Orders
(Amalg.) from 12£ p.c. to 15 p.c.; Elec-
trolytic Zinc ord. from 5 p.c. to 8 p.c.;
Holeproof Hosiery ord. from 6 p.c. to
8 p.c.; Kandos from 7\ p.c. to 10 p.c.;
and the C.B.S. from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c. Both
Standard Portland Cement and Winch-
combe Carson have maintained their in-
terims at 7 p.c.
* * * *
In B. 29/1/’36 eight industrial stocks
were mentioned as giving a reasonable
yield under present conditions. Since
then all have appreciated except Prestige
Hosiery ords., in which no recent busi-
ness has been done. Of the others,
Gordon and Gotch ord. (then 465. 6d.)
has gone to 475. 6d., Henry Jones (395.)
to 40s. 6d., Arthur Cocks (225.) to 245.
3d., Cumberland Paper (325. 6d.) to 335.
6d., Winchcombe Carson (31s. 9d.) to
325. 6d., Hydraulic Power (235. 9d.) to
255. 3d. (later dropping to 245. 6d.), and
Kandos Cement (255. 6d.) to 265. Bd.
Kandos paid its 10 p.c. (a rise of 2\ p.c.)
as predicted here some months ago. A
parcel comprising all the above stocks
would still give yields ranging from
slightly over 4 p.c. up to 6 p.c.
Last year it cost Mt. Lyell (Tas.) £43
2s. a ton to produce 14,000 tons of
copper, after deducting from exes, the
value of the gold and silver content. The
red metal is still worth around £39
(London), equal to £4B 15s. (Aust.). A
good deal of the product is sold in the
Commonwealth, which means a slightly
better average return. On present figures
mining would be worth £85,000 a year
to the co., and investments at least
£60,000 p.a. Each 1 p.c. distributed on
capital calls for £15,500. Though its
liquid resources are mainly debtors and
stocks (£437,539), liabilities (£77,468)
should not stand in the way of dividends.
Present market for the £1 shares is 235.
3d. As mentioned here a few weeks ago,
opencut mining (more than half the ore
is now being raised by this method) means
lower costs.
* * * *
Latest development in the affairs of
Mastercraft Film Corp. (N.S.W.) is a pro-
posed linking-up with Thring’s Efftee
Studios. The offer from Cinesound Pro-
ductions expired in January. Mastercraft
has commenced working on its studios
at The Avenue (Lane Cove River,
Sydney).
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd., paid capi-
tal £401,125 (including £115,166 recently
transferred from reserves), which was
listed in Melbourne recently, in June,
1935, commenced weaving cotton tweeds,
drills and denims. Lancashire raised a
protest against tariff increases on these
goods in 1934. The co. also makes up
shirts, pyjamas, underwear, etc. It has
been progressive; turnover for 1935 was
140 p.c. greater than that for 1931, but
profits (£9,931 for 1935) have been in
and out. The 100,000 6 p.c. prefs. on
the market (69,006 were recently issued
for cash) are priced at 21s. 6d.; the
ords. (last div. at rate of 5 p.c. p.a.) are
at 17s. 9d. The co. started business as
a proprietary in 1925. Heavy stocks of
imported goods (which came in before
the tariff operated) have kept down
demand for the new cotton textiles and
yarns. Until stocks are absorbed there
won’t be much return from this section
of the co.’s business.
* * * *
Sunshine Gold (New Guinea), floated
in November, 1933, is at last approach-
ing production. The 10s. scrip ran up to
over 455. in the early part of 1934 ; then
it took a hammering at the hands of the
bears, and recent sales have been around
12s. 6d. Principal leases are on the Oro
and Watut rivers in the Mandated Ter-
ritory, and Fish Creek and Lakekamu
River in Papua.
* * * *
New Occidental’s recoveries for Janu-
ary (18790 z. from 5419 tons) averaged
6.93dwt., as against 6.6ldwt. and
B.osdwt. in the two preceding months.
The market has kept about the same.
Some explanation of the lower values
would be welcome.
* * * *
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, formed
early in 1935, has commenced produc-
tion. The properties are four dredging
claims on a tributary of the Bulolo, about
five miles from Wau. Vendors took
£54,500 (£37,000 in cash) out of a present
paid capital of £77,500. During January
6465 yards was treated for 188 oz. 16dwt.,
average values being 4s. 4jd. a yard.
Last week’s market for the scrip was
slightly below par (2s. 6d.).
* * * *
Lancefield’s working surplus for the
six months to Dec. 31 was £62,414 —
administration costs must come out of
that. From 51,126 short tons £126,415
was realised. Head value of the ore
averaged 325. 8.6 d. (about 4s. better than
Lake View and Star), gold at 85s. Tail-
ings assayed ss. 7.7 d., and plant adjust-
ments are being made to recover portion
of this value in future. The plant can
treat about 10,000 tons a month. The
shares are bringing no more than 12s.
in the market, mainly because a belief
exists that the co. is having difficulty in
keeping the ore supply up to the mill.
Certainly development seems to be back-
ward ; to reopen a mine, get a plant
running, evolve treatment processes and
declare a div. all inside of two years is
no small effort, especially as the man-
agement has had three or four changes.
But the show is a better bet than many
at the present price, which makes market
valuation of the show £580,000.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Glass shares rose strongly,
touching 88s. Paying 13 p.c. and yielding
3 p.c., they seem fully-priced. If ord. capital
were doubled by reserve capitalisations, and
10 p.c. paid on the new scrip, the yield to
present purchasers would be a shade over
p.c. “Glass” is a sound stock, but the
market is asking a lot of the future.
Broken Hill Prop. £1 shares were steady at
605., the market firming following rumors of
a projected new enterprise—the manufacture ot
aeroplanes at Fisherman’s Bend, in conjunction
with General Motors-Holden’s. Shares return
a shade over 4 p.c. To those satisfied with
that income for the time being, there are great
possibilities in this stock. Newcastle (N.S.W.)
steelworks are fully occupied.
Upper Watut (N.G.) scrip was active, rising
from 7s. on Monday to Bs. 3d. on Wednesday.
Production is expected to commence in June.
Chairman of the co. (Colin McKay) is now
en route to the U.S.A.; the market attaches
some significance to the trip, whether as re-
gards a possible liaison with big American
mining interests or not it is hard to say. At
the flotation (January, 1935), a life of 17 years
and profits of £80,500 a year were mentioned.
Shares issued: 800,000 fully-paid to ss.
Ironbark (Bendigo) shares down and up,
following doubtful, then more promising, re-
ports from 1528 ft. level. Considerable turn-
over on ’Change. The spice to this gamble is
whether a continuation of the. Hercules ore-
body has been struck.
Cock’s Eldorado dealt in in substantial
parcels, 10s. shares being fairly steady around
14s. Co.’s 180,000 c.y. dredge to be ready in
April, and funds declared to be sufficient to
reach production. There are 250,000 shares
out.
Emperor, Loloma and Koroere showed
market recovery towards middle of the week;
increased support reported from London.
Australian Cement shares improved to
335. 6d., following 10 p.c. distribution by
Kandos (N.S.W.).
E. Ward, W. H. Smith and E. G. Banks
resigned from board of Gordon Gold, N.L.
The new directors aim at “speedier results” and
divs. of “Is. a month.” Following an im-
proved crushing, the shilling shares (140,600
issued), which were up to 21s. in December,
and declined to 11s. (cum Is. div.) a week or
so ago, have firmed to 12s. 3d. (ex div.).


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Escapade”
In one respect this new film at Sydney
Liberty is like its immediate prede-
cessor, “The Good Fairy,” in that a name
invented at random is found in the
Vienna directory and the owner of the
name is involved in adventure. In an-
other respect the new film resembles
“Escape Me Never” (which came before
“The Good Fairy” at the Liberty), for
the principal lady, Luise Rainer, though
she has a personality of her own, recalls
in many little ways the mannerisms of
Bergner. As “Poldy” (short for Leo-
poldine), companion to a countess and
beloved by a famous artist (William
Powell), she demonstrates a pretty mix-
ture of innocence and sophistication. Her
English is a little foreign in accent; her
lips caress vowels and her eyes say
volumes more than her lips. The comedy
concerns itself primarily with the indis-
cretion of a doctor’s wife who has per-
mitted herself to be sketched in nothing
but a fur wrap, a muff and a mask. The
sketch is published in a newspaper, and
the furs are identified by her husband.
Some tall lying is necessary, and in the
course of subsequent complications the
artist is pistolled by a jealous lady and
mended by the doctor (Ralph Morgan).
Of course, all ends happily. The music,
which includes Viennese waltzes and
some excerpts from “Rigoletto” (part
of the action is at the opera), is skilfully
woven into the play and enhances its
effect.
“The New March of Time”
The second instalment of this feature
—a review of world events linked to-
gether to express a point of view—shown
at Sydnev Liberty, makes a little clearer
the intention of the editors. The war-
like preparations of Germany, Italy and
Japan are again stressed. Shots of old
Sir Basil Zaharoff, of a British-made
field-gun captured from the Germans in
the Great War, of the members of the
U.S.A.’s Munitions Investigation Com-
mittee in conference and of Ricketts
coaxing oil-land concessions from Haile
Silassie are used to cast odium on “inter-
national racketeers.” A connection be-
tween engineering projects at the source
of the Nile and Mr. Ricketts’s activities
is traced. Outside this propaganda the
progress of the Jewish reoccupation of
Palestine is strikingly illustrated, and
some of the pictures taken by the latest
slow-motion camera, which expands a
thousandth of a second into several
seconds, are given.
“I Give My Heart”
This adaptation of the operetta “The
Dubarry” brings to the screen a new
singer, the Hungarian Gitta Alpar. She
is a coloratura soprano with an extensive
range and remarkable purity of tone, her
production being apparently effortless.
She is good to look upon, her acting is
adequate, and she has .a sense of comedy.
As the mistress of Louis XV. and suc-
cessor to the Pompadour, she is viva-
cious, and her transmogrification from
milliner to Court butterfly places no
strain on the imagination. The plot
merely touches on the marriage of Marie
Jeanne Vaubernier to the Comte
Dubarry and the countess’s triumph over
the Due de Choiseul, the king’s first Min-
ister. Owen Nares appears as the king,
and Margaret Bannerman as her sponsor.
The music is lightly tuneful, but gives
insufficient scope to the singer for the
display of the pyrotechnics for which her
voice is so admirably suited. Miss Alpar
speaks broken English, which is a handi-
cap to a film of this character, and if
ever the audible screen embarks seri-
ously upon opera it has to its hand in
the Hungarian a voice which records
superbly. Previewed at Sydney Liberty.
“I Found Stella Parish”
Immediately after the greatest drama-
tic triumph of her career (first night of
a play that looks a bit like “The Sign
of the Cross”) Stella Parish (Kay Francis)
vanishes from London and is sought by
her manager (Paul Lukas), who loves her,
in vain. But a super-reporter (lan
Hunter), one of those coves who swank
round in the highest society, exuding
ten-pun notes at every pore, does some
sleuthing, tracks Miss Parish to a trans-
atlantic liner and follows her to New
York, where he makes himself agreeable
to her and her little daughter. Then he
cables to his newspaper (which appar-
ently is prepared to spend thousands on
scandal-mongering) the story of how the
actress is a convicted murderess on
parole, and had been identified by an
“DIRTY WORK,” AT SYDNEY LYCEUM.
Ralph Lynn, Robertson Hare and (at rear) Gordon Harker, engaged in a
spot of burglary.
American on the night she disappeared.
Miss Parish, though incensed at the ex-
posure, proceeds to capitalise it by sell-
ing interviews and appearing in. a dra-
matic version of her own unsavory
career. But her manager and the super-
reporter (who loves her too, and more-
over knows she is innocent of the crime
for which she was sent to clink) bring
her back to London, where she resumes
her dramatic career exactly where she
left off, and then, presumably, marries
the super-reporter. Most interesting
features of this fantasia are Miss
Frances’s excellent make-up as a prim
old maid and the fact that in her great
play she commences with raven hair and
winds up as a platinum blonde. Acting
is fair, but the plot has as many holes as
a colander. At Sydney Regent.
“Miss Pacific Fleet”
A brisk-moving comedy in which wise-
cracks stream from Hugh Herbert, A 1
Jennings, Joan Blondell and Glenda
Farrell. Strong features are a boxing
match that would wring a smile from a
dyspeptic cat, chase scenes in which
motor-boats career madly about a
crowded harbor, and a character sketch
of an energetic but bibulous small-town
businessman (Hugh Herbert) which is
full of effective touches. Also at the
Regent.
“A Feather in Her Hat”
The hackneyed story of the illiterate
woman who for some reason not ade-
quately explained pretended to her son
that she was his nurse and he a sprig
of the aristocracy. He becomes a play-
wright, and she secretly makes it possible
for his first play to be performed. It
is (of course) a great success, which
makes it possible for the young man to
marry his sweetheart (Wendy Barrie).
The loving mother expires of heart
failure in the theatre. Despite the trite
material, Billie Burke as the mother and
Basil Rathbone as her second husband
(“the captain,” a man of culture who
has seen wealthier days) give the story
substance, pathos and humor. At Sydney
Plaza.
“Shipmates Forever”
Also at the Plaza. A radio crooner
(Dick Powell) was the son of the U.S.A.
equivalent of Admiral of the Fleet (Lewis
Stone), who greatly desired his offspring
to follow in his naval footsteps. So the
young man, a true hero, made the
supreme sacrifice, gave up crooning con-
tracts that earned him twice as much salary
as his papa, and entered the Naval
Academy at Annapolis. But this didn’t
stop his crooning. He was hated by the
lads and loved by the lasses for his
prowess in this peculiar art, and was
mooing away with great elan, surrounded 1
by a hundred or more admiring females,
when this critic decided that the subse-
quent proceedings couldn’t contribute
much either to the enlightenment or
gaiety of the nations. Also at the
Plaza.
“Woman Wanted”
A young woman who has been mixed-
up with a gang in some unexplained way
is wrongly convicted of murder, escapes,
and is accidentally shielded by a young
lawyer, who continues to protect her
even when he finds out who she is. Con-
vinced of her innocence, he sets to work
to prove it. He outmanoeuvres the gang,
which endeavors to put him and the girl
“on the spot,” and the District Attorney,
who suspects he is harboring the escapee.
Eventually the gang is trapped ; the only
witness who could clear her name con-
veniently lives long enough after a severe
subcutaneous injection of lead to sign a
full confession, and the D.A., convinced
of the heroine’s innocence, smiles benig-
nantly as she melts into the arms of her
protector. Of course, an indictment of
the lawyer for hiding a convict would
interfere with the happy ending, so the
scenario writers have conveniently for-
gotten it. The plot is commonplace, but
sound character-acting helps to lift it out
of the ruck. Joel McCrae and Maureen
O’Sullivan do the romantic parts satis-
factorily, and Lewis Stone as the D.A.
is, as ever, capable and impressive. But
the highlight of the acting is provided by
an unknown in the role of the young law-
yer’s suave, tactful manservant. Huge
and ungainly, he gives a polished per-
formance. At Sydney Civic.
“Here Comes the Band”
Also at the Civic. Though billed as
second string, this is the more entertain-
ing picture of the two —an extravaganza
with no pretensions as to plot that flits
lightly along on the wings of fun. Two
ex-buddies, now taxicab men, befriend
a young composer-singer who wins a
medal at an amateur radio night, where
he meets a girl trying out her talent
under an assumed name. A song he has
written is purloined by an unscrupulous
publisher and becomes the rage of Man-
hattan. Backed by the girl and her
father, who turns out to be the buddies’
old colonel, the young composer brings
an action for damages. He proves his
case by dissecting the song with the aid
of choruses by Indians and negroes
whom he has transported from the West,
convincing the Judge that it is pieced
from old folk-songs. A party given at
the colonel’s palatial home and the
efforts of aspiring radio artists at an
amateur night help to keep the action
moving. The facial contortions of a
heavyweight Italian tenor who tries to
render the “M’appari” from “Martha”
while overwhelmed with a series of the
weirdest sneezes ever seen on the screen
are side-splitting. Virginia Bruce hasn’t
much to do, but she looks nice. Ted
Healy fits in well. Ted Lewis and his
band figure prominently, and Nat Pendle-
ton adds to the fun.
“Way Down East”
Bellowdrama in all its glory, with
emphasis on the elements that made
grandma weep copiously into several
handkerchiefs and grandpa furtively
blow his nose. The poor orphan girl,
“more sinned against than sinning,”
is happy in her new work as hired
help at the old farm owned by a
righteous tiller of the soil who sets his
flintlike face against all sin; her ten-
derly awakening love for the farmer’s
son is reciprocated. But, alas! her
former indiscretion is exposed ; the old
man’s wrath explodes—“l have been har-
boring a woman of sin ; get you gone,
and never darken my doors again!” So
she goes out into the night during a bliz-
zard, to be rescued from the river ice-
break by her still-devoted farmer lover.
Follows reconciliation with the old man,


Australia*s Leading Financial Journal,
February Issue Now on Sale.
ARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
THE CEMENT INDUSTRY.
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS.
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., L td., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
J*,
*r
1+
A FAIR COW
THAT DEPRESSION—
YET MANY FARMERS,
Clerks, mechanics, etc., who
found their jobs petering out
did not despair, but launched
out on their real job in life.
COMMERCIAL ART!
Prosperity is now returning, but are YOU going to wait until another boom bursts
before getting out of your present half-secure occupation? Be wise; make the
change in the very near future;
If you think you can draw, send now for our FREE Art Ability Tests. To learn
more about the Commercial Art profession, enclose Bd. in stamps for postage on
our 80-page publication, "The New Era in Commercial Art.” Mention "Bulletin.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
DELTA
“Quality '
Motor Driven Tools
f
For Small Shops, Factories,
Home Workshops, Builders, &c.
Strong-, accurate, effi-
cient these Quality
Electric Tools made
by Delta have won a
world-wide reputation
for the genuine
machine value they
offer. Although they
cost but a fraction of
big heavy tools, they
are so well built, so
skilfully designed,
that they stand up
under the heavy grind
of production work
in large factories.
And yet they are so
compact and con-
venient that they are
used in tens of thou-
sands of small shops,
home workshops and
farms.
W 2
DELTA
for
Pleasure
and Profit
sdf
SEND OR CALL FOR THE DELTA BOOKLET
With Prices and Illustrations. Post Free.
51 Bathurst St.,
SYDNEY.
532 Murray St.,
PERTH.
Propridarq limited
546 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
116 Waymouth St.,
ADELAIDE.
his heart softened at long last, and then,
as birds carol blithely in the reborn
spring, the joyful wedding-bells outring.
Henry Fonda is a manly lover,
Rochelle Hudson an attractive heroine.
As Squire Bartlett, Russell Simpson
assays soz. bigotry to the ton, and
Edward Trevor wears a smudge on his
upper lip and is thus distinguishable as
the villain of the piece. The settings and
outside photography are magnificent, and
the ice scenes are realistically done.
Comic relief is capably attended to by
Slim Summerville and A 1 Lydell. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Man of Iron”
Also at the Capitol. Chris Bennett has
risen from laborer’s rank in a steel co.
mostly on his ability to handle the men,
with whom he is popular. When he is
made general manager over the head of
the assistant manager (John Eldridge)
that unworthy collaborates with his secre-
tary (Mary Astor) to spike the boss. With
his rise to affluence Chris breaks away
from his old friends and barges into
society, where his crudities are secretly
laughed at. He rises to vice-president,
takes over while the president is away
holidaying, neglects his job to supervise
the erection of his new mansion and
thus gives his jealous rival, now g.m., a
chance to bring him down. But a riot
brings Chris to his senses, the villain is
exposed and Chris, still vice-president of
“Salamanca Place, Hobart.” Etching by Joan Shir low in
the Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
the co., goes back to old clothes and
fiddles with flanges and gauges—appar-
ently he hasn’t any duties as an executive.
Tolerable acting can do nothing with
such a plot. Mac Lane as Bennett is
only fair; Dorothy Peterson as his wife
is good. Mary Astor looks sly for the
few minutes she’s on, and John Eldridge
smirks in a stage-villainish way.
“Temptation”
Setting is Hungary, with alleged
glimpses of the gay night life of Buda-
pest. All that happens is that a married
lady spends an evening in town and in-
dulges in a mild flirtation. Frances Day
is the lady—a comic-opera star who has
become a countess or something of the
sort. Hungarian flavor is painstakingly
developed by irruptions of musicians in
tzigane rigout and by dressing the
countess, when at home, in peasant
regalia. The worst of it is that she is
given frequent opportunities to croon.
The part calls for a Bergner or a Rainer,
and Miss Day’s efforts to be Continen-
tally chic are depressing. Action is slovv,
and incidents with which the piece is
padded are pointless. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Dirty Work”
Also at the Lyceum. A Ben Travers
comedy. Scene is a jeweller’s shop in
which Ralph Lynn, Gordon Harker,
Robertson Hare and Lilian Bond are
employees. A pair of crooks have gained
the manager’s confidence, and are mak-
ing almost daily hauls of jewels aided by
a house detective appointed on their
recommendation. These evildoers are
foiled by Harker, who, with the others,
pretends to lend himself to a scheme in-
tended to incriminate all of them and
give the thieves their last and biggest
swag of plunder. Up to the usual Travers
standard as regards plot, but below it in
the matters of dialogue and amusing in-
cident. Tom Walls, who directed the
opus, might have been better occupied
as a member of the cast.
“Come Out of the Pantry”
Lord Robert Brent (Jack Buchanan),
having dropped the family fortune into
a bank just as its doors were closing for
good, learns to walk like a footman,
“head up, stomach in,” as demonstrated
by a friendly butler (Robert Squire). The
good-looking aristocrat cleans the silver,
answers doors, remembers to say “sir”
(sometimes), sings a nice little tea-drinking
ditty and dances on
the kitchen table
with a plump and
susceptible parlor-
maid (Ethel Stew-
art). He’s a highly
entertaining young
man whose mas-
querade is ended
when he squirts
champagne ov e r
his unpl e a s ant
brother, thus dis-
closing his birth
and breeding.
Marie O’Neill has
a congenial char-
acter part as an
Irish cook. Fay
Wray is the girl,
but any young
thing would have
done. It’s Buchan-
an’s picture. At
Melb. Athenaeum.
“The Hope of
His Side”
This Sydney
Howard film is a
laugh right
through. Howard
is Scrodger, a
Yorkshire black-
smith who is
allowed 2s. spending money per week
by his wife, a female who makes
night and day hideous by playing
the trombone in the parlor. The
village taproom has its eyes popping
out of its old English roof when Scrodger
announces that he has stolen a meat pie,
thrown a teapot at the bridal photo-
graph, denounced the trombone-player
and all her works and has come forth
to drink beer. Scrodger loses his pants in
a football match, but he kicks the win-
ning goal and saves his beloved George,
a woolly foal which he had risked in a
bet. Mabel Constanduros makes an ex-
cellent job of the flinty wife. The York-
shire and Lancashire accents are a feature
of the film; even the football-field
flappers have been chosen for their com-
mand of dialect. Also at the Athenaeum.
Some First Nights
The J.C.W.-Gregan McMahon players
handled a difficult job creditably in
Emlyn Williams’s “Night Must Fall” at
Melbourne Comedy on Saturday. A
creepy drama it is—psychic, blood-
thirsty and morbid on a new plane. .Yet
it achieves brightness as well.
Buried in a bungalow in an Essex
forest with a tyrannous and hypochon-
driac aunt (Ethel Morrison), Olivia
Grayne (Elaine Hamill, another Maori-
lander) develops an introspective mor-
bidity, more especially so when a plati-
num blonde of shadowy reputation is
murdered in the near-by woods. Here
enters “Baby Face” Dan (Lloyd Lamble),
a hotel bell-hop, who has failed to do
the right thing by Dora, the aunt’s maid
(Phyllis Baker).
Dan plays up to the cranky and miserly
aunt, learns of her money in the safe
and becomes her fair-haired boy. But in
her fey way Olivia senses that he is the
murderer; that he is acting, even to him-
self; that he is insanely vain. As an-
other repressed soul she is at once drawn
to him and repelled. It is here that the
most difficult (and perhaps incredible)
part of the play falls on the shoulders
of these two young players; an inter-
pretation of the mentality of odd char-
acters which calls for more than mere
Hollywooden beauty and sleek mascu-
linity.
Elaine Hamill did her job convinc-
ingly, so far as the character per-
mitted. Lloyd Lamble was excellent—in
his first really big part. They have
“straight” parts; most of the wisecrack-
ing (some of it very smart) falls to the
other seven players, the cook (Erna
Living) taking the biggest share. Ethel
Morrison as the self-pitying aunt has a
large and entertaining part, right up to
the time that her protege Dan suffocates
her and robs the safe,
The story is without an atom of senti-
ment. It is a psychological study. Yet
the play is amusing enough, a combina-
tion of shudders, laughs and gooseflesh.
It is hardly flapper entertainment, if one
takes the psychological side seriously ;
but the action, creepiness and more
obvious aspect of the plot may fill the
bill there.
The sequences are cleverly arranged,
The prologue to the play (the Lord Chief
Justice’s dismissal of Dan’s appeal
against his death sentence) is really the
epilogue to the story.


7(l >jr
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOYEL
SYDNEY
r?
if*
esc
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best Quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per* -
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted
no obligation. Write JOHN GILiMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
mu
m
mil
mt
8 %
mm
2.183
MELBOURNE'S
MOST
modern
HOTEL
200
rooms
200
baths
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22 6
Room and Breakfast- from.. 12/0
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Just as this letter was getting into print
Dinah Hordern was getting into her wed-
ding finery at Retford Hall. The time
and place were both fashionable. It was
an afternoon wedding, with the seal
of St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on it.
Three bridesmaids —sister Mary Hordern,
’groom’s sister Beatrice Meeks and Mar-
jorie Wilson, daughter of Queensland’s
Governor—little Edwina Hordern and
Jock Henty added their glamor to the
procession that followed this second
daughter of Tony Hordern and the bride
of Harry Meeks along the flowering
aisles. Over 400 guests made merry at
Retford Hall.
There was a sort of dreamy beauty
about the flower arrangements of the
Hordern-Meeks wedding, and St. Mark’s
has never looked more florally adequate
to choral outbursts, to mists of tulle, to
pews neatly stacked with guests in glossy
plumage. The whole decorative scheme
was a very soft and beautiful green,
mingled with white. The pillars were
deeply banded with green hydrangea,
white tiger-lilies and white cactus
dahlias; the entrance to the chancel
was marked by two enormous baskets
filled with green and white hydrangea
and trails of smaller, more tremulous
white blooms. The choir stalls wore
white and green blossoms; the pews
were marked with great white-and-green
bows and light garlands of white.
At Retford Hall there was a nice care-
free atmosphere of money-no-o.|?ject in
the decor. The marquee was lined with
pale green, and was meshed with trails
of smilax and white flowers. There were
garlands of green hydrangea on the
bridal table, and bowls of white tiger-
lilies and gardenias. Bowls and baskets
of gloriosa, tiger-lilies, gladioli and
dahlias turned the entrance hall and the
reception-rooms into an exotic under-
growth. The garden ballroom was set
about with tall pedestal baskets from
which flowers of every hue cascaded.
Orchids were worn by most of the
women, those chosen by Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern and Mrs. J. O. Meeks, the ’groom’s
mother, being the hothouse expression of
high finance.
Capes, long rucked gloves and velvet
hats were a feature of the really lush
frocking at the gilt-edged wedding. A
touch of autumn was in both coloring
and style. Bridegroom’s mother, Mrs.
J. O. Meeks, wore a very striking outfit
in Milano-brown romaine, the high
shawl neckline richly embroidered in
dull gold and rust'; the full sleeves were
also embroidered in these tones. A
rather swagger cape that buttoned on
to the waistline and a rust velvet hat
dripping with coque feathers were fin-
ishing touches. Mrs. Willie Anderson’s
clear complexion* was thrown into relief
by a black crepe ensemble, the cape of
which was pleated in the newest way.
Her hat was of black velvet.
Froebel House, the Kindergarten Train-
ing College at Waverley, opened its doors
for another year’s work with speeches
from the city’s education leaders. The col-
lege is a pleasant place, and it is claimed
that a corner of it was once the home of
Melba when she was a very little Nellie
Mitchell. There were 20 new students,
and it was mainly to their aspirations that
Peter Board, chairman of the College
Council, directed his speech. If the girls
follow his counsel they will keep their
minds like wayside inns, eager to wel-
come new ideas, to make old ones com-
fortable and to speed those old laggards
with nothing to recommend them.
Director of Education Ross Thomas was
a speaker ; so was Mrs. W. H. Read, presi-
dent of the Rachel Forster Hospital.
Principal Miss Slack and vice-principal
Zoe Benjamin did the honors. The col-
lege song was sung with good will, and
tea was drunk with even greater hearti-
ness.
Time your meeting for the evening
and you will have a record attendance,
even though it be midsummer. The
Catholic Women’s Association had a
great response to its invitation to come
to the Carlton around about eight to
discuss the acquiring of new clubrooms.
The new club will be on the fifth floor
of the Catholic Assurance building on
the corner of King and York streets.
Besides a large reception-room there will
be rest-rooms, a writing-room and a
kitchen. Miss Kate Egan, president of
the C.W.A., told of the necessity for this
central meeting-place for the business
girl and the visitor to Sydney. She told
of rooms with cream walls, blue curtains
and blue furnishings, and made them
sound alluring. Miss Kate O’Shannessy
spoke of the Braille writing, the hospital
visits., the helping hand given to the
poor, and made them sound appealing.
Between the two they netted the whole
meeting as members.
Whenever the Bertie Kellys give a
party in their own home there is always
music lurking around the corner. Bertie
himself is a violin addict, and the closest
thing to a patron of melody that this
city has produced. Last week the new
home of which Mrs. Kelly is so proud
was thrown wide, and, flowerful as a
Swiss meadow in spring (only the flowers
were really expensive cousins to the
Geneva growth), resounded to music and,
in its interludes, the human voice.
Gladstone Bell, Mary Charlton, Mrs.
Horace Sheller and the host interpreted
a rich programme. Mrs. Kelly wore the
fashionable white wig with her floating
white raiment.
This is a glimpse of Dinah Hordern,
who, as this letter went to the printer,
was becoming Mrs. Harry Meeks.
Twenty yards of softest silver material,
its name rosalba, were in her glistening
frock. The bodice of this showed the
new ruching, as did the long, tight sleeves.
The sweeping train was scattered with
white gardenias, and real white gar-
denias were worn at the neckline. A
wreath of gardenias flat to the head kept
the mists of tulle veil in place. Her
flowers were a torchlike sheaf of gar-
denias. Her three ’maids wore frocks of
Nile-green Chantilly lace, cut with a
softly-flowing line. They also carried
torchlike sheaves, but theirs were com-
posed of green hydrangea, the stems
bound in Nile green. Photo, from Dayne.
The International Club is now ready
for its first experimental flights, and soli-
citor Aubrey Halloran is at the controls
for the first year. Aubrey was quite the
brightest boy of his year at Sydney Uni.
in international law, and backs that
up with lingual attainments. Acting-
president Henry Segaert, Belgium’s
Consul-General, was in the chair at last
week’s meeting till the election ; then he
moved aside, flinging a few flowers of
rhetoric to the glory of his successor.
This is not to be just a manger, man-
giare, speisen or eating group. Sydney
has plenty of lunch clubs as it is. The
LC. midday chop is to have frills, and
culture is to be the name of them all.
How can we know the thoughts of one
from another country if we know no-
thing of his art, his drama, his poetry?
When Henry Segaert returns from his
trip to Europe, he will probably take
over the drama section. The Snowden
lady, Leo Buring, Syd Ure Smith, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, Lute Drummond, Mrs.
Florence Taylor and Latvian Consul
Norman Macleod are among the inter-
ested. The LC. claims a record. It
started with 100 members.
Oswald Cheeke was taken suddenly ill
last week, and is now in Tusculum Hos-
pital Tusculum was his mother’s home
when she was one of the three lovely
daughters of William Long.
„. , . ,
Gisborne must e ', , .
town of Maonland among London s Inky
Wayfarers. That’s the town that means
home to Rosemary Rees and the young
medico who wrote -The Wind and the
_ . t,, , ( a
Ram.” That of course is one of the
marvels of the English stage. Ae
record run it is still playing to capacity
houses, and looks good for another year,
Rosemary’s novels now number 12. Her
early books were published by Herbert
Jenkins, her later ones by Chapman and
Hall. She is well known to “Woman’s
Mirror” readers as a writer of serials
where romance and the picturesque go
hand in hand.
Miss Rees, whose father once upon a
time represented Gisborne in Parliament,
was at the beginning of her career an
actress, and still prefers the stage to
literature. She says she is an actress who
makes her living by writing. She prefers
the living drama to the cinema, although
she has had the luck to be in films with
such stars as Clive Brook. Her latest
book, Miss Tiverton's Shipwreck, is
launched in a very artistic jacket cover,
the work of a young Enzed artist, Felix
Kelly, who is doing poster work in
London for the Lever firm. Rosemary
owns to having several plays in her
pack, so one day she’ll probably win a
trick from Fortune like her friend Dodie
Smith, the writer of “Autumn Crocus”
and “Touch Wood.”
A note from Harry Tighe tells of a
comfortable flat in Knightsbridge where
he was settled in time to give a Christmas
party which included as many Sydney
lads and lasses trying their luck on the
London stage as Harry could coo-ee to.
(Harry, being a playwright, knows a bit
about the ups and downs of a young
actor’s career.) He marvels at the genius
and the business acumen of John Giel-
gud, who in his own production of
“Romeo and Juliet” first played Mercutio
and then gave an extra flip to the box-
office by turning round and being one of
the most romantic and throbbingly alive
Romeos of stage tradition. Mr. Tighe has
linked up with his old circle of literary
and artistic London, including the famed
Mrs. Alec Tweedie, whose at-homes in
her flat on the roof of Devonshire House
are events of the season.
Replete with talk, flowers and dignity,
the reception given by the professorial
Windeyers before their departure in the
Otranto suited its background, the
Queen’s Club. Mrs. Windeyer welcomed
her hundred or so guests wearing sweep-
ing sand-colored laces fragrant with
frangipanni spray. Their young doctor
daughter, Ella Windeyer, added rose-red
taffetas to the night’s color. Brothers
Owen and Spencer helped to entertain.
North Shore line and University impor-
tants scintillated in every group.
If you were not among the 500 guests
at the Hordern wedding, and as a conse-
quence wearied from social activities,
you’ll probably drift along to Isabel
Mackenzie’s art show this afternoon.
Modestly-priced pictures that show real
feeling for line and color hang in the
Macquarie Galleries, and at three-thirty
J. W. Maund speaks the opening lines. A
student of the Royal Art Society’s and
Will Ashton’s classes, the artist has car-
ried off prizes for landscape and still-life,
she has shown with the Society of Artists
and the Royal Arts, and has held shows
in Melbourne and Sydney. She is an
art teacher in the N.S.W. Department of
Education, and she leaves Sydney m
April for study abroad.
Australia’s hockey girls are off to
Philadelphia in September. Other bits of
the United States, will intervene, such as
Milwaukee,- Chicago and New York, but
in Philadelphia no fewer than six matches
will be played by Australia in the tourna-
ment for which all the best hockey sticks
in America are already being whetted.
When the athletes board the Niagara they
will be accompanied by trunks and bags
striped diagonally blue and gold, to make
picking out on wharves and stations an
easy matter.
Each will provide £l6O towards her
own expenses, and of this £2O will be
pocket money. Manager of the team
Mrs. F. J. Davy will also be purse-bearer,
so there will be no laying in a store of
fat-making sweeties. Niagara Falls, the
Grand Canyon and the Canadian
Rockies are to be included in the beauty
spots the team will visit. The U.S.A.
Field Hockey Association will act as
hosts. Merle Taylor is the captain; and
the team has representatives from every
State.
If Marjorie Hambridge had played
nothing but the haunting Sicilienne of
Paradies-Dushkin the music of her violin
would linger on the ear. In addition,
at her Conservatorium recital on Satur-
day in such big works as the Veracini
Concert Sonata and the Brahms D
Minor Sonata the North-Shore-line girl
revealed true and mellow musicianship
and sustained powers. Miss Hambridge
has a good stage presence, which she
knows how to dress. Her white Chantilly-
lace frock was long, and flowed to a slim
train. Lindley Evans was brilliant at
the piano, and Stanley Clarkson punc-
tuated the violin groups with arias by
Handel and Mozart and songs by the
moderns.
The flowers were a magnificence.
Cargoes of the choicest blooms were
brought to Marjorie by girl-friend ushers
who fluttered up and down in their
chiffons like so many butterflies. Behind
its terraced edge of small flower-pots
blooming with hydrangea, the Con. stage
was massed with rich garden loot. Tall
standard baskets broke the green back-
ground of the stage. A great cluster of
magnolia was on the right of the stage,
hydrangea on the left. Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Hambridge received the guests,
and in the audience were Sydney’s lead-
ing violinists. Dr. Bainton was there; so
were Miss Scobie, Marjorie’s teacher
before her Con. days, and Gerald
Walenn, who taught her there before
she went to London and the Roya
Academy.
The wife of France’s Consul-Genera
Suzor, settled in her new home at Dar-
ling Point, is still enchanted with our
harbor views. Her verandah is deco-
rated with skins, antlers and other big-
game trophies acquired by her sportsman
husband. The French community, t;
the way, will greatly miss Mrs. de Chan-
ferae when she and her husband ano
three children depart by way of Panam-


-'/M
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling list Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
™V tK * readi] y- Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
“ o d f ay l-^ iU be DEAD. A sixpenny
p . , A CORN SILK will remove every
CHEMIST?' Si° r little ’ hard or soft ‘ ALL
wlnF ? S nT,nn CI(ED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
STAY AT PETTY’S.. WHEN IN SYDNEY
No need to wonder where to stay While in Sydney.
Wire or write now for reservations at Petty's Hotel. The
quiet comfort, the convenience, the service and cuisine
will all please you. Tariff: Room and Breakfast from
11/6. Inclusive from 18/-.
dsf
PETTY'S HOTEL
York Street Sydney R.J.Lanql ey Manaqer
LONDON’S LEADING
HOTELS
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger Lifts.
Garages, Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Running Water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Vegetarians
catered for if desired. BRIDGE, BIL-
LIARDS, TABLE TENNIS and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single, from 4 guineas.
Double, from 7 guineas.
Tele: Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its new Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 guineas Single,
61 guineas Double.
Tele: Padd. 6061.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 5022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8431.
Accommodation for 90 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as Bed-sitting Rooms. Owing
to their popularity you are advised to
secure accommodation —if possible—in
advance. Terms: Single, from 3 guineas.
Double, from 5 guineas.
The above hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
Melbourne
Chatter
In spite of the talk about shorter skirts,
the Hon. Mrs. Leslie Gamage wore an
almost ankle-length dress to Caulfield on
Saturday. It was of plain white silk
sheer, and with it went a wide-brimmed
baku hat bound with black lacquered
ribbon, and, when the breeze blew hard
from the south, a beige woollen coat.
Mrs. Gamage has many beautiful Moly-
neux gowns in her trunks, but Australia
may not receive the full benefit of them,
for their owner is dressing in accordance
with Court mourning.
Mrs. Clive Leonard was in white, her
tailored dress of a loosely-woven
material, which looked like linen inter-
spersed with silk threads. Phyllis Mein
chose a little brown hat for her swamp-
green dress. Mrs. Leslie Benjamin wore
one of the new flower-pot hats with her
black gown, the only ornament of which
was a quaint black-and-silver necklace.
Mrs. E. J. Hogan’s black georgette frock
was upstanding at the neck with a guards-
man’s collar; her hat, which gave her
a heap of trouble in the wind, was
trimmed round the brim with a curly
kilting of White pique ribbon.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Cavanaugh gave
a late-afternoon party at New Gros-
venor, Queen’s-road, in honor of visitors
from America who represent an older
generation, Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence
Cavanaugh. The hostess was in navy-
blue triple ninon, and the guest of honor
wore all black with silver foxes. • Little
hats and furs were the choice of practi-
cally every woman present. L. G. Hart-
nett was there receiving congratulations
upon the advent of the newest Miss
Hartnett, which important young per-
sonage had detained her attractive mother
at home. Mrs. Harry Cavanaugh, who is
an Australian and comes from Adelaide,
had a trip to her husband’s country on
her honeymoon. She was planning an-
other trip last year, but illness inter-
vened and plans were reversed ; her hus-
band’s parents came to Australia in-
stead, where, incidentally, they have
made the acquaintance of their grandson
Michael. Unlike most Americans (and
Australians also), they came out on the
Niagara, which they liked very much,
and are returning by way of the Aorangi
and the Canadian Rockies.
Philip Glass describes himself as a
lonely old man now that Dudley has
gone away again, but judging by the
friends who gathered at his cocktail party
on the eve of his only son’s departure
there will be lots of people always ring-
ing up and dropping in to cheer up the
“old fellow.” There were only two
speeches over the cocktails, a serious
one from W. A. Watt and something
more humorous from T. F. Fink. Among
those who came to the last party Mr.
Glass gave at the big house in Yar-
Orrong-road (he is getting dug-in for the
winter in a more compact flat) were Dr.
and Mrs. Lennox Spiers, she all in black ;
Clif and Gerald Ormiston, who brought
their respective wives, the former’s better-
half in blue-patterned crepe and the latter’s
in a navy coat with a beautiful blue fox
collar; Mrs. A. L. Leicester, wearing a
tailored dress in a green, fawn and black
design; Mrs. Albion Walkley, in all-
white ; and Mrs. Bertram Lazarus, who
chose a white hat and a dusty-pink dress.
Who could say “no” to baked beans
done in a casserole with tomato ketchup,
speckles of baccm and brown sugar and
served very hot with home-cooked ham?
That was just one of the dishes which
tempted guests at Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Ware’s buffet supper party. Everybody
walked round the dining-room table col-
lecting bits of this and that and paus-
ing long enough to see what the host’s
carving-knife had to offer. There was no
awkward balancing of plates, glasses and
cups, for chairs and small tables set with
lacy cloths and silverware were scattered
around the lounge. When Mrs. Ware
came to Australia as a bride a few years
ago she couldn’t' boil an egg —both she
and her husband hail from Georgia,
where coal-black mammies do the domes-
tic chores. But packed among the bride’s
trousseau dresses was an American cook-
ery-book which, with an Australian
cookery-book and practice in her Aus-
tralian kitchen, has secured the candi-
date graduation into the realms of first-
class party-givers. For her supper last
week Mrs. Ware wore a Nile-green crepe
frock with a little coat and flowers of
the same soft material trimming the edge
of the sleeves. Her mother, Mrs. Irwin,
who was guest of honor, looked particu-
larly striking with her blue gown, blue
eyes and white hair.
In the Broothorn portrait is Marjorie
Strangward, who is preparing to com-
mence housekeeping in New Guinea.
The young man who will provide the
home, which is to be on the coast north
of Salamaua, is Leigh Vial, of the District
Service. He, like his fiancee, comes
from Melbourne. Miss Strangward is a
very learned young woman and has a
Master of Arts degree.
The Hon. Mrs. Leslie Gamage, Mrs.
Arthur Whitelaw and Margaret Jewell
were guests of honor at the Centenary
Club, which came out of recess especi-
ally for the occasion. Mrs. Gamage,
who had had a busy day, including in-
spections of a match factory and three
other institutions, looked very elegant in
a plainly-cut black gown, worn with a
white rose at the point of the deep V
neckline, and long black kid gloves, which
did not impede her flowing handwriting
in the visitors’ book. She is a very
charming woman, and made a perfect
little gem of a speech. She must be used
to public speaking, for her delivery is
excellent.
Mrs. Whitelaw has been so busy since
her arrival in Melbourne that she’s had
no time for bridge, though, like her hus-
band, who is the inventor of a system of
play, she is an excellent player. The dress
she wore to the party was an achievement
of narrow navy-and-white stripes meet-
ing one another at the seams, thence
running in all sorts of unexpected direc-
tions. Miss Jewell combined Patou-pink
with chocolate for her tailored dress of
crinkled crepe, which buttoned up the
front of the skirt. Mrs. J. G. McCallum
wore honey-colored satin with a collar
of summer ermine. Madame Jahnka
(who is Australian by birth and Swedish
by marriage) wore a black peaked cap
with her suit of linen tweed. Gertrude
Johnson was in black with an elongation
of tomato-colored collar. Joan Henry
also wore black with her straight-
brimmed sailor hat, and Mrs. Fred Thiel
was handsome in cigar-brown with gold
clips.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Whitelaw have
now gone on to Sydney. They are a
couple of Australians well known for
their generosity to public movements,
charities and sport, who live in London
but make frequent visits to this country,
for their two sons live at opposite ends
of the world. Both are married, Geof-
frey in England and Lionel on Wen-
douree, his sheep station, a couple of
hundred miles from Sydney. Lionel and
his wife are at present enjoying a surf-
ing holiday at Manly, so they will be
able to entertain their relatives in Sydney
before carrying them off inland. Neither
of the Whitelaw sons shares his parents’
interest in bridge.
Mrs. Arthur Whitelaw is one of those
nice people who always has a friendly
word about other folk and their pos-
sessions. She has a brooch, a large
rectangle, thickly set with diamonds
around a magnificent emerald. When
an acquaintance expressed admiration for
the jewelled piece, Mrs. Whitelaw agreed
that she was fond of it, “but' yours is
charming also,” she added. The brooch
referred to was a modest thing, its value
perhaps one per cent, of that of the
larger ornament.
A comparison between English and
Australian film gazettes running on the
same programme gives food for thought.
The Australian film is taken about Syd-
ney ; the scenic photography is excellent,
but the effect is spoiled by three super-
fluous young women, most of the time
wearing slacks, who skip about in the
foreground pointing at things. And the
recorded explanatory voice is monoton-
ous. In the other film the voice is easy
to listen to, and though the commentator
makes puns he does it artfully. Whereas
the English picture is good advertising,
the Australian one would never induce a
tourist to visit this country.
Peggy Brown, of the Surbiton cakeshop,
is glimpsed in this Broothorn picture.
Fourteen years ago Miss Brown went
abroad with no particular qualifications
for earning a successful livelihood other
than a high-school education in Prahran
and a course of art study at the Working
Men’s College. She had very little
money, but liked London so much that
she determined to stay there. Pluckily
she rented what had been a tiny mil-
liner’s shop in Surbiton and, with one
girl to help her, started to bake home-
made cakes. A little later she hired a
boy; he has grown to manhood in her
employ, and is now a pastrycook in the
five-storey building which is the Peggy
Brown hive of industry. Within two
years of the cakeshop’s existence Miss
Brown had acquired the shop next door ;
then she took a third shop ; next she
added a tea and coffee lounge, and later
her business ability so impressed a local
building society that capital was forth-
coming for her to buy the extensive
premises in which she now works.
Miss Brown is firmly convinced that
woman’s intuition and foresight are
superior to man’s, and believes that if
she had had a man partner she would
still be working in her little shop.
Though her hours were long and tiring,
and other people were not as encourag-
ing as the building society, luck was with
the plucky Australian, for the site of her
shop has improved enormously in value
during the last few years. Miss Brown’s
trip to Melbourne is a holiday to renew
friendships and to see her brothers. On
March 21 she will once more be London-
bound.
There is a theory that a multitude of
speeches added to a guest-list thickly
sprinkled with relatives must make a
wedding a gloomy affair, but there wasn’t
a dull moment at the marriage reception
of Pat Thwaites and Gordon Challings-
worth. Among the speakers, who were
all in good nick, was the bride’s father,
a legal man so well educated by his three
sons and two daughters that he voiced
an opinion that “parents should be seen
and not heard.” The relatives were in
mellow mood, and fully appreciated the
unconventional telegrams read by best-
man Dave Cook.
The ’groom’s speech was delayed while
everybody sang “Why was he bom so
beautiful, why was he born at all?” con-
ducted by the Rev. Roscoe Wilson, a
merry little man who took a hand to
keep singers from starting in so high a
key that they “gave away the fact that
they never went to church.” Among the
smart matrons present were the mothers
of the bride and ’groom; Mrs. Nicol
Hart, in black-and-silver stripes; Mrs.
H. L. Mcßoberts, and Mrs. A. E. Pilley.
Joy Wilson, in blue; Alison Cook, in
crinkly white crepe ; and Mrs. Phil King,
with confetti stars sprinkled over her
black net dress.
The crew of the Southampton flying-
boat are home again with some adven-
turous tales to tell of their 10,000-mile
flight, which lasted over six months.
Hunger, thirst, the most vicious mos-
quitoes in the world and the greediest
leeches were all part of the picnic ; there
were long delays when bits of the ’plane
broke down and had to be replaced ; one
of the crew developed fever and had to
be nursed on nothing at all when his
temperature was 105, and on tinned milk
and duck soup when it climbed down a
few degrees. But good work was done,
and they managed to knock up lots of
fun.
Squadron-Leader Hempel was im-
pressed by the lonely lives led by wives of
missionaries and other white women in
New Guinea and Northern Australia,
some of whom are in touch with civilisa-
tion only through a boat which calls
every two months. Pedal radio sets are
a great boon to these people, especially
when there is sickness and a doctor’s
advice is necessary. For swimming, the
crew of the flying-boat chose the sea and
the sharks in preference to rivers and
crocs. Everywhere the natives were
friendly and offerings of food, native
tobacco, bunches of flowers and human
skulls would have filled half a dozen
’planes. Neither New Guinea boys nor
abos. displayed a dangerous passion for
souveniring bits of the “great, grey bird”
with a penknife, as do lots of white folk
who should know better.
“Adelaide”: The law in S.A. has
reached an odd compromise over a farm-
hand of 22 who, near Mount Barker,
shot the farmer, his wife and daughter,
buried all three and reported that they
had gone on a journey. On trial for
murder he was found not guilty on the
ground of insanity. The public was
profoundly dissatisfied, and ultimately
a fresh charge was laid for murder of
the girl. The youth pleaded guilty to
manslaughter, and accepted a life-
sentence.


4 NOVELS FOR
S'-
POST FREE.
A limited number of Endeavour Press novels which have
become slightly soiled in the store are now made available
to BULLETIN readers at bargain prices. The usual price of
these is 5/- and 6/- each.
Your choice of Four of the following
for 5/-, post free.
“SATURDEE” Norman Lindsay
BRING THE MONKEY Miles Franklin
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK Vera Dwyer
THE SOW’S EAR Bernard Cronin
THE DOUGHMAN Robt. Desmond Tate
STORIES BY “KODAK”
Mark the books you require and post the list, together with
postal note, to
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188,
G.P.0., Syditey.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Re Estate of H. E. Lawrence, Deceased.
LAWRENCE. —Will the next-of-kin or any
persons knowing the history of HENRY
ERNEST LAWRENCE, late of East Sydney,
who died on March 17, 1935, who is stated
to have been born in Buckinghamshire, Eng-
land, please communicate with W. B.
GEDDES, Public Trustee, 107-9 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney?
WILL MRS. EVELYN MAY ORMISTON,
widow of Eric William (or Reginald) Ormiston,
late of Waverley, N.S.W., communicate with
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. OF N.S.W.,
LTD., 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney?
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 511 of 1935.
BETWEEN DORIS MILDRED JARMEN
Petitioner
And CHRISTOPHER WILFRED
JARMEN Respondent.
TO CHRISTOPHER WILFRED JARMEN
formerly of Stanmore near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales and of Grafton
in the State aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS MIL-
DRED JARMEN has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of February,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRANK W. LEE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1339 of 1935.
BETWEEN KEITH HARVEY MacKENZIE
Petitioner
LYRLINE MAY MacKENZIE Re-
spondent
And ERICK ALBERT WOODWARD
Co-respondent.
TO LYRLINE MAY MacKENZIE formerly
of Rouen Road Rainworth Brisbane in
the State of Queensland.
TAKE. NOTICE that the said KEITH
HARVEY MacKENZIE has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a divorce on the grounds of
bigamy with adultery with the said ERICK
ALBERT WOODWARD and of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and m
the event of you not doing so within the time
limited without obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of February, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HUGH WILLIAM SELWYN JERMYN,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Manufacturers
House, 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NE"
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 110 of 1936.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN MARIE SMITH
Petitioner
And JOSEPH SMITH Respondent.
TO JOSEPH SMITH late of Broken HUi
Miner. „ _ cxl
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
rARIE SMITH has commenced a suit
ju in this Honorable Court and is apply in =
>r a dissolution of marriage on the ground*
t desertion for three years and upwards w'tn'
it just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTIb
lat you are required to enter an appearance
i the said suit at the proper office of tm
onorable. Court on or before the
ay of May One thousand nine hundred an
lirty-six and in the event of your not doiOr
> within the time limited or obtaining iurtn
me the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
sard and determined your absence notwun
anding. A copy of the petition filed here
iay. be had on application to the undersig
cc of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of February*
136.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,.
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
CECIL F. HURLEY, Solicitor for the feu
oner, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Elizabeth and Margaret Malloch, two
tiny tots in picture frocks of soft pink
tulle and satin, scattered rose leaves from
their flower-baskets as their Aunt Joy
walked down the aisle of St. Andrew’s
after the Venn-Malloch wedding. Yards
and yards of ivory point d’Alenfon lace
fashioned the bride’s simply-cut gown,
with its shimmering groundwork of
satin. Frills of lace finished the neck
and sleeves, a silver girdle encircled the
waist, and a Honiton-lace veil fell to the
ends of the long, long train. Her muff
of filmy tulle was garlanded with Cecil
Brunner roses. Twin-sister Phyllis was
the lone ’maid, with a swirl of tulle
frills rippling from neck to hem over her
eau-de-nil satins; her blue basket of
pink flowers matched the flowered crown
of her transparent-blue lace straw hat.
Toasts were drunk at the Malloch home
at Crawley, with Mrs. A. H. Malloch in
an orchid-lace confection inlet with
beige.
Sylvia Diamond left for Singapore,
where her marriage to Hugh Bamford,
of Batavia, will take place. In her trunk
was a delicious garment of white-pleated
chiffon emerging from a heavily-beaded
yoke, with each pleat trailing off into
a godet, the hindermost forming a
yoluminous train. The tulle veil, with its
propensity for melting, was parked in the
ice-chamber, and arrangements were
made for its immediate transference to
a cool-store on its arrival at Singapore.
Another wedding with a sentimental
value attached to the veil was the
Hayes-Temperley knot-tying at the Star
of the Sea Church, Cottesloe. The
bride’s grandmother, the late Mrs. S. F.
Moore, her mother, Mrs. Norman Tem-
perley, and several members of the
family have all worn the Limerick-lace
which Josephine arranged Juliet-cap
fashion, with a tiny spray of orange-
blossom at one side. Her curd-white
satins, intricately swathed, were caught
with pearl ornaments, flanked with tight-
fitting sleeves and inlet, running into a
lustrous train. Pearl and diamente belts
and shoulder-straps held Dorothy Tem-
perley and Sheila Hayes’s creamy
georgettes with their pleated bodices and
capes, which were topped with pleated-'
tulle hats crowned with Hadley roses.
Special trains from the country, and
augmented tram, bus and taxi services,
catered for the crowds who turned up
at the trots. The powers that be turned
on perfect weather for 30,000 followers
of the sport to pass through the Glou-
cester Park turnstiles. A silver moon
shining over the still waters of the river
made the night picturesque.
An occasion for wassail was Mavis
Christie’s coming-of-age. Mr. and Mrs.
William Christie (she in soft schooner-
blue and beige georgette) sat at each
end of a dining-table at the Esplanade,
with Mavis ensconsing her Patou-pink
crepes in the box seat.
Gwenyth Ambrose responded to the
call of Colombo by packing her grips
and sailing off at short notice. The
following day Jean Lang and Betty
Spark made a reluctant return from
their holiday on the island.
Cupid’s latest victims are Margaret,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. J.
Leckie, and Harley, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Ulick de Burgh Morrison, of Guildford.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Every race-meeting this summer has
seen war waged by the wind against femi-
nine hatwear. At the Amateur Turf
meeting three and four hats at a time
might be seen bowling along the grass,
with the fair owners in hot pursuit.
Elastic was of no avail, even when worn
beneath the chin. Chairman J. H.
Morish and his wife entertained a large
crowd at afternoon-tea in the committee-
room. Mrs. Morish’s white cloth cos-
tume had a cape effect, and her small
white hat was banded with red and navy
ribbon. Mrs. George Braund was
gowned in pale-grey georgette, with a white
band round her black hat. Mrs. S. J.
Jacobs chose black marocain, and her
wide-brimmed black straw hat was
trimmed with mauve velvet orchids. Mrs.
F. A. Tennant, who was en route for the
Hayward-Steele wedding, sported white
silk marquisette, with coatee edged with
tiny knife-pleated frills ; her large white
crin. straw hat had a bow of black velvet
ribbon in the front, and she carried a
white lace applique sunshade.
Mrs. Richard Hawker, of Bungaree,
Clare, accompanied by daughter Naomi,
left in the Narkunda for England. Mrs.
W. T. Mortlock, Mrs. Hawker’s sister,
gave a farewell tea party at Queen
Adelaide Club for the travellers the day
before they sailed.
When the Orontes passed through
Adelaide the Bonython lady gave a
luncheon party at her summer residence,
Eurilla, Mount Lofty, when she enter-
tained Lady Carson and her son, the
Hon. Howard Carson, the Hon. Mrs.
White and her daughter and Miss Wil-
son, who were all very charmed with the
hills.
Beatrice Bennett, who left witb her
sister Kitty for England in the Narkunda,
gave a large luncheon party at the Queen
Adelaide Club on the day the ship sailed.
The Buckland lady was among the guests,
also Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith and Mrs.
J. H. Gosse.
The Keswick and Wayville Tennis
Club’s cabaret dance was held on the
grass courts, which were enclosed with
hessian and illuminated with festoons
and pillars of multicolored lights. The
Palais Royal orchestra provided the
music. Mrs. S. Robertson (wife of the
president) had decorated the front of the
orchestra’s platform with a profusion of
crimson roses in brass bowls. About
800 were present.
The marriage of Alan Finlayson, of
Walkerville, to Helen, eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Venn, of Dardenup
Park, took place in Westralia, the cere-
mony being performed by Bishop Wil-
son, of Bunbury, formerly of Walkerville.
The bridegroom’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
J. H. Finlayson, went over for the
wedding.
TASMANIA.
The weather kept us guessing on the
morning of Hobart Cup Day, but by
afternoon pleasant conditions were
assured. Chairman A. J. Miller and his
wife did their social job with their usual
efficiency, and there was a big attendance.
Lawns and flower-beds looked beautiful
in spite of the dry spell, and Coolart’s
win was highly popular. Dressing was
mostly in sober tones, black and blue
predominating.
Mrs. A. J. Miller chose a delicate grey
georgette with a fine black pattern and
a big black picture hat. There was a
lot of braiding about the Nicholls lady,
who was in all-black. The Ashbolt lady
brightened a black woollen frock with
white braiding. Mrs. J. L. Whitham, back
in the Speck on a visit, was in black ;
Mrs. Thos. Lyons, receiving congratula-
tions from all sides on her recovery from
illness, was in soft grey-blue. Among
country folk were the Alan Camerons
(Ross), with Jean Lawrence (Melb.), the
Lister Fosters, the C. Chesters, the Keith
Brodribbs and the R. C. Fields.
No great excitement was caused by the
arrival of three Australian warships in
the Speck’s waters this year, everything
being more or less damped down by
Court mourning. However, small enter-
tainments sprang up like mushrooms,
and the harbor was dignified by the pres-
ence of the Canberra, Voyager and
Stuart.
Nora Perkins and R. W. Vincent had
their wedding at the cathedral without
much fuss, the bridegroom having lately
lost his father. The bride’s dress of mag-
nolia satin under heavy lace had a small
train. The Honiton lace veil was a family
heirloom. Three ’maids, M. and E. Per-
kins and Ila Solande, wore long frilly
floral georgette frocks and pink, blue and
green hats respectively, with sashes to
match. The newly-weds will live in
Greenlands-avenue, Sandy Bay.
Alix Pritchard and Angus Bethune
were married in the pretty little C. of E.
church at the Ouse, which had been
decorated by friends with hydrangeas in
every shade. The bride’s frock was of
heavy ivory lace, tightly fitting, with small
rounded train, long sleeves and high
Medici collar. The tulle veil fell from a
wreath of orange-blossom. Three ’maids,
Nell Edgell and the two Bethune girls,
Mary and Helen, were in white hailstone
net frocks mounted on pink satin, and
had charming little headdresses of apple-
blossom and tulle. The wedding tea was
held at Millbrook, the old Nicholas
home, by special request of the bride-
groom’s grandmother, Mrs. G. C.
Nicholas.
Margaret, the Wilfred Hutchins’ elder
daughter, and Gerald Michael Webb, of
Fenagh, Princes Hill, Melbourne, an-
nounce their engagement.
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Murdoch had an
afternoon party at Hadley’s, when their
guests included W. A. Watt, former
Premier of Vic. and ex-Federal Trea-
surer, J. A. Boyd and C. D. and . Mrs.
Conacher —he is g.m. in Australia for
Vestey’s.
John Eldershaw’s show of paintings at
the Masonic Hall drew a good crowd.
“The Old Mill in Gore Street” has been
bought for Hobart Art Gallery.
Captain and Mrs. F. P. Bethune have
bought a house in Fitzroy-place, and
with their two girls are coming to settle
in town, leaving Cluny (Ouse) to their
newly-married son Angus and his bride.
The David lady (Sydney) is paying
visits to her daughter, Mrs. W. R. Mc-
Intyre (Launceston) and her newly-mar-
ried granddaughter, Mrs. P. Waterworth,
Hobart.
Senator Grant, with his wife and two
girls, sailed for London on a six months'
trip in the Narkunda.


No. 5598.
w
PRfcVE
E/ICAN
BACK
C3OOT
Boo¥
6,USSET
SIDES
PREVENT \
GRASS =
seeds =
6N-tERtN& \
EXTPA^
strength-
double
SCREWED
SOLE
ALL SIZES
IN BLACK.
OR. TAN CALF
A. BLACK VALLA BY
m
B R.OT H fc
Queen. Stx*c e%Wtis Dane*
At Sydney’s
Social
Centre
You will find every
modern convenience,
first-c lass service
and an excellent
cuisine.
w
J*
If!
Hotel Mansions
Is situated in the most central part
of Sydney, and is the real home for
visitors from all over the world.
Excellent catering for Wedding Break-
fasts, Dinners and Private Lunches, etc.
King’s Ci oss, Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 {l4 lines).
Patents.
PEACH PITTER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
15857/24 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN METHODS OF AND
APPARATUS FOR PITTING FRUITS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
1160/26 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
B RAN DALI ER'S
m
0
'PENS
They elide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BRANDAtfER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gain”: A little disturbance over a
bingo joint in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane,
revealed that the show was being run in
aid of t.b. soldiers, local branches
of the A.L.P. and the Institute of Social
Service—a missionary affair. Unkind
people are asking why, if educa-
tion in particular is to be sup-
ported by something which appeals to
gambling instincts, that something is not
taught in the schools, so that more and
more people will take naturally to bingo
and earn more and more money to pro-
duce more bingo artists.
* * * *
The first' Veterinary Professor at
Queensland University will be Dr. H. R.
Seddon, director of veterinary science
at Glenfield (N.S.W.) Experiment Farm.
He is a Maorilander, 48 years old,
trained in the M.L. Stock Branch labora-
tory under Professor Gilruth, whom he
followed to Melbourne University.
There for six years he was chief assis-
tant in the vet. pathological laboratory.
Seddon graduated B.V.Sc. with first-class
honors just before the war, and for a
time was acting-professor. In 1917 he
went to Egypt and organised the 10th
Australian Mobile Veterinary Section, in
command of which he saw a lot of
Syria and Palestine.
* * * *
“Royal and Ancient”: When I left
Brisbane in 1920 the city was able to
pack all its golf on to one course,
Yeerongpilly, though it was rumored
that' Theodore and co. were helping
to establish a royal course at Hamil-
ton. Usually, the city’s golf army
numbered not more than 120 in the
week-ends, but now there seem to be
almost as many courses as there used to
be players. There are a Greater Brisbane
Golf Association and a Board of Green-
keeping Research, with entomologist,
plant pathologist, botanist and agros-
tologist attached, which issues regular
and imposing bulletins about earth-
worms and the rhizoctonia. A little
work on the selection of grasses should
make great changes in Queensland g-eens,
which have a reputation for greasiness
and the breeding of vegetables which
every respectable green should be without.
*** * •
“Zedo”: Tragedies are not always what
they seem. The other day an agitated
voice begged the Brisbane C. 1.8. to send
a few sleuths to track a boarder at a
residential who had disappeared, leaviqg
evidence of carnage behind him. The
police arrived, to find his room swim-
ming in blood and a razor blade stained
with gore. With bloodhounds or some-
thing a trail was followed to the railway
station, where an awestruck porter told
of a man who had sat on a seat holding
his throat as if to keep his head on.
Bloodstained rags identified the seat, and
strong men began searching mail trains.
And at last, in the corner of a carriage,
they found the “corpse” very much alive
and surprised at the fuss he had caused.
He had nicked his throat while shaving
and then had bumped his head and made
his nose bleed.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A very fine old lady, with
family antecedents going back to the
earliest days of Australian settlement, has
died, in the person of Mrs. J. R. Nimmo,
at Malanda (N.Q.), after 75 years of
Queensland residence, at the age of 84.
Her paternal grandmother was the third
daughter of Governor Philip Gidley
King, who ruled N. S. Wales in 1801.
Her grandfather was the first R. C. Leth-
bridge, who took up land at Penrith
(N.S.W.) in 1805, the year of Trafalgar.
She and her descendants have occupied
Oak Park station (N.Q.) since 1888.
* * * *.
“Dungeness”: It heartens us old tropi-
cal wrecks to realise now and then that
N.Q. life is losing none of its punch.
Observe the case of an Innisfail man.
A wild cassowary broke into his peace-
ful hut, ran him out of it, and forced
him to take refuge on the roof. Every
time he showed signs of coming down
it dissuaded him with a succession of
flying kicks, any one of which would
have brained an elephant. Grilled to
desperation by the iron roof, he lured
the ferocious fowl to one end of the
abode, slid suddenly down the other and
fled for the sea. Only when he had
swum a quarter mile in record time did
he venture to look round. He was safe.
But the diabolic bird was busy on the
beach kicking his poor pet crocodile into
handbags and belts.
* * * *
“Zedo”: There should be a story for
a Jack London or a Kaleski behind the
destruction of a dingo which has been
worrying sheep in the Thane (s.-w. Q.)
district. The country is full of hide-
holes, and it took a trapper seven weeks,
at a cost of £32 to the Dingo Destruc-
"See many snakes about, Jacky?"
"Boss, this pfeller not taste a drop
for two year !”
tion Board, to get his dog. Even that
was thought cheap—the animal had
already accounted for 300 sheep. How-
ever, £32 isn’t a record. One dog I knew
of in the Central District cost over £BO
in wages to lay by the heels. He was a
half-breed, reputed to have done £250
worth of damage. And despite the
expense the official catcher missed him,
and he was brought down by a small boy
with a .22 pea-rifle.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The fate of Yampi Sound iron
ore seems to have been settled at last.
And there is now no danger of the
Japanese or their representatives getting
their fingers on the two islands, since the
English iron and steel firm of Brassert
has decided to exercise its option over
the island, which carries the principal
deposit.
* * * *
“El V.”: A milk-and-water newspaper
with a flair for sensation burst on the
world with a poster, “Man Treads on
Death Adder,” to the amazement of my
old Carpentaria friend Ted Hatch, just
arrived from the North. When Ted and I
were lads together many a year ago on the
edges of the Barkly, it would have been
a sensation if somebody had not occa-
sionally trod on a death adder. When
we kicked our boots over of a morning
we sometimes found a d.a. in them. We
found them in our blankets, under our
saddles, reposing on the driving seat of
the cook’s buckboard, in the boss’s hat.
One even got into the waterbag one day.
There were other snakes, too—yards of
in the long grass over
the “jump down.” Man steps on death
adder, indeed! We wouldn’t have
troub ! eb to put “Anaconda Steps on
Man” in a headline up that way when
the rainy season began.
. * ... * , * ,
“ ur ‘ /^•■• S P,f nc exam P^ e how
public utilities serve the farmer.
Beenleigh is 24 miles from Brisbane,
and by a supreme effort the Railway De-
partment succeeds in delivciing animals
trucked at Beenleigh on Sunday mornings
at the abattoirs near the capital on the
following Tuesday, The average speedl ot
half-mile pei hour at which the poddies
are transported ensures that they are not
jolted and that they see all the scenery-.
And as farmers complain that they are
not given a drink en route, they no doubt
feel that death is welcome when they
reach the killing pens. The ungrateful
cockles are asking permission to carry
t C i r 4u Ck by motor-truck, pointing out
tha they can make the journey by roac
m H hours, but they are unlikely to be
allowed to perpetrate such an outrage
agamst the canons of bureaucracy.
“Amm R. Kul”: With nearly all
Thursday Island’s population looking on,
the Mayor, Aid. A. Corran, pinned the
Royal Humane Society’s medal on
Papuan Tabu Hero’s chest. His perennial
worship explained that, as Tabu was un-
able to go to Brisbane and the Governor
unable to come up to T. 1., he was
approached to perform the ceremony.
Tabu Hero was the member of the crew
of the lugger Rhodophis, which foun-
dered in the 1934 cyclone off Cape
Tribulation, who inspired and led the
survivors on to safety after 30 hours in
the water and a walk of 18 miles.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
As there was no Lord Mayor present
to greet Helen Twelvetrees with the
chaste salute that seems to be a mayoral
privilege when a screen star arrives, Aid.
Arthur Austin (in turf circles “Sirdar”)
stepped manfully into the breach. Helen
travelled up in a heavy grey tweed skirt
and felt hat, with a scarf wrapped round
her throat a la cravat. Rather warm, it
must have been.
The Sisters of Mercy decked the high
altar at St. Stephen’s Cathedral with
flowers for the wedding of Gwen Thorn-
ton, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Thornton, of Warwick, to Jack Ahern,
son of Mr. and Mrs. George Ahern, of
Goomeri. Dr. English, administrator of
the cathedral, tied the knot, and Len
Thornton gave his sister away. The
bride wore a plainly-cut frock of coral
crepe with military braidings and a coal-
scuttle hat. Mrs. J. Marshall, of Allora,
also a daughter of the house of Thorn-
ton, was matron of honor, and Roy
Ahern best man.
Harry Frith, son of the J. O. Friths,
of Rodway, Toowoomba, and Jess
Buhot have announced their engagement
to be married in Toowoomba sometime
in March.
Beatrice Pugh, in private life Mrs. W.
A. Blake, and Marjorie Bulcock were the
guests of honor at a • party given by
Rhoda Felgate in her studio. Both
recently have returned from Europe.
Guests mostly were recruited from the
Repertory Society.
Maisie Rice gave a farewell party for
Mrs. Persia Porter the day before she
left by the Moldavia for England. Mrs.
Rolfe Latimer was hostess at another,
a bridge party at the Belle Vue Hotel.
One of the most impressive cere-
monies of the year, the Red Mass, was
celebrated by Archbishop Duhig, and
largely attended by members of the judi-
ciary, the legal fraternity and large quan-
tities of other citizens. Familiar in
Sydney, the Red Mass has now been
observed in Queensland for the second
time ; it is the nearest approach to the
pageantry of the Old World that we are
likely to see.
The world president of Christian
Endeavor, Dr. Daniel Poling, came out
of the Orient last week, accompanied by
Mrs. Poling and Miss Lyons, on his
first visit to Australia. After seeing
the southern States, he will go on to
Maoriland, en route to his home in
U.S.A.
Chieftain W. McGregor celebrated his
seventieth birthday, and all the members
of the Caledonian Society and a large
sprinkling of public men and representa-
tives from kindred societies assembled
to do him honor. Knight Donald
Cameron presided, and in his opening
speech mentioned the fact that the chief-
tain travelled to Australia 48 years ago in
the Quetta, afterwards wrecked on the
Queensland coast. And the chieftain
recalled having carried timber on his
back down Queen-street when first he
came to Brisbane.
Mentioning the Quetta brought a lot
of old memories to light. Someone re-
recalled that the late Mrs. Reggie Roe—
her husband was master of the B.G.S.
—lost both her parents, Captain and
Mrs. Whish, when the Quetta sank.
Someone else mentioned that, to re-
member the help given the survivors of
that and other wrecks around Torres
Strait by the Jardine brothers, passing
ships still dip their flags to the old Jar-
dine home at Somerset, Cape York,
although none of the clan lives nearer
than Thursday Island now.
My Henry (granddaughter of the late
Arthur Feez and now Mrs. Peter Wessels)
passed through in the Kitano Maru with
her husband, a charming Dutchman,
bound for Sydney on their honeymoon
trip. The newly-weds met on shipboard
when My was returning from a trip to
Portugal.


Replace worn
Valves with
Milliard
The
Master
Valve
1
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Imported
ULTIMATE
10-valve all-wave
de luxe chassis
and speaker
(the most outstanding all-wave
receiver yet introduced on the
Australian market) is now avail-
able to the public as a unit f° r
incorporation in existing consoles.
Write us for full particulars.
GEORGE BROWN & CO, LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also N.S.W. Distributors for—
Kola Loudspeakers.
Milliard Radio Valves.
Van Ruyten Car and Launch K
RADIO NEWS
AUSTRALIAN WIRELESS PROGRESS DURING 1935.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Many important and far-reaching
developments have taken place in the
Australian wireless industry in 1935. The
number of broadcast listeners is now over
three-quarters of a million, and new
broadcasting stations have been opened
in capital cities and large country centres.
Many B-class stations were built and
equipped by A.W.A. The most power-
ful of these is 2GZ Orange, owned by
Country Broadcasting Services, Ltd., and
providing broadcasting facilities in the
central and western districts of N.S.W.
New stations at 4WK Warwick and 3XY
Melbourne afforded opportunity for
the employment of the latest prin-
ciples in radio engineering. The new'
station at Port Moresby—the first
broadcasting station in the Pacific —com-
menced operations in October, and a
station for Cairns is in course of con-
structon. These are intended to pro-
vide programmes of radio entertainment
in tropical areas notably difficult from a
broadcasting viewpoint.
High-fidelity transmitters of the latest
type were installed at stations 2UW
and 2SM Sydney. The aerial system of
station 2SM is unique in Australia. The
mast of the station at Pennant Hills
stands 450 ft. in height upon land 400 ft.
above sea level. It is the highest wire-
less mast in Australia, and radiations
emanate from the mast itself, the cus-
tomary aerial wires being absent.
As indicative of the progress of wire-
less in Australia, it may be noted that
the most powerful and modern types of
broadcast transmitters are designed and
manufactured in Australia, and are being
exported overseas. Following on the
reorganisation of broadcasting in M.L.,
the Broadcasting Board there placed
orders with A.W.A. for the installation
of several modern transmitters. Of these
one has been installed at Auckland,
another at Christchurch, and a third at
Dunedin. All are of 10,000 watts power,
greater than any station in Australia.
A further order has been received foi
the installation of a 60,000 watts station
at Titahi Bay (M.L.). It is to be much
more powerful than all the B-class
stations in Australia put together, and
there are more than 60 B-class stations!
Apart from a similar one in the Irish
Free State, it will be the most powerful
medium-wave station in the British
Empire.
Radio telephone equipment was added
to the existing A.W.A. radio telegraph
stations at Hobart, King Island and
Flinders Island for communication
between these points and ships at sea,
while similar equipment has been in-
stalled at Butaritari, in the Gilbert
Islands.
Of recent years extensive developments
have taken place in marine wireless
equipment, greatly extending the utility.
Many ships in the Australian mercantile
marine are equipped with all the new
wireless appliances, and, in addition to
long- and short-wave valve transmitters
and receivers for the interchange of
traffic, there are the automatic distress-
signal receivers for service when the
operator is not in his room; modern
direction-finding equipment, enabling the
captain to locate the ship’s position at
any time ; echometers for determining the
depth of water under the ship’s keel ; wire-
less-telephony transmitting and receiving
apparatus, enabling the captain to speak
to coast stations ; and also wireless equip-
ment in lifeboats, so that should pas-
sengers and crew be adrift on the ocean
they can make their position known to
people on land or in other ships.
One of the most important of the
new wireless instruments is the auto-
matic distress-signal transmitter, which
sends out the SOS signal in case of emer-
gency. This instrument is automatic in
action, and starts and stops merely by
the pressing of a switch. It can be used,
however, for the transmission and recep-
tion of messages, and a number of ships’
officers have been trained in its use.
For the entertainment of passengers
Gigantaforte loudspeaker equipment is
installed in many ships. By means of
this apparatus the distribution of broad-
FLYING RADIO EXECUTIVES CONFER.
D. Wytes, Philips’s chief engineer (left) and E. Dare, Mullard general manager,
exchange ideas on the latter’s return from Europe by air. Both recently flew to
Europe and back on business.
cast programmes, recorded music, con-
cert items and announcements is made
simultaneously to different parts of the
ship.
Following upon recent decisions of
Commonwealth and State Governments,
wireless is now carried by a much more
numerous class of ships than was the
case up to June, 1935. As a result
A.W.A. has within the past few months
equipped over 55 vessels in Australian
waters. Another 30 vessels will be fitted
within the next few weeks, and most
of these will carry the new automatic dis-
tress-signal transmitters, with associated
receiving gear. The whole of this marine
equipment has been manufactured at the
A.W.A. works. In a number of cases
Australian-manufactured equipment has
been shipped to the United Kingdom for
installation in new vessels building for
the Australasian trade.
The activity of A.W.A. in equipping
many stations with piezo crystals has
enabled these stations to keep on allotted
frequencies, and so broadcasting has been
further popularised without any special
reason being apparent to the average
listener.
Radio in its early days was a vocation
which attracted many young men with
a rough-and-ready knowledge of elec-
tricity. By dint of enormous enthusiasm
and great energy they achieved surpris-
ing results. But, with the passing of
time and a growing realisation of the
importance of wireless communication,
rule-of-thumb methods have given way
to systematised knowledge and scientifi-
cally applied principles. A.W.A. has
accordingly enlarged the scope of its re-
search laboratories, and within the last
year has augmented its staff of physicists
and university-trained electrical engineers
by seven. There are now three holders
of the degree of doctor in one or an-
other branch of the physical sciences, and
eight others with degrees such as M.Sc.,
B.Sc. or B.Eng.
Some of the activities of the research
laboratory staff may appear academic, as,
for instance, the splitting of time into
the one-thousandth part of a second.
Why? one might ask. The answer is sup-
plied in the statement that such a close
approach to absolute accuracy enables
the frequency of broadcasting stations to
be checked to within plus or minus five
parts in the million, and by the broad-
casting of accurate time signals seismolo-
gists of Riverview Observatory and other
scientists have been able to calculate very
closely the scene of earthquakes occur-
ring thousands of miles away.
The rapid expansion of Australia’s air
services has led, during the year, to closer
co-operation between the Commonwealth
Weather Bureau and A.W.A. for the
speedy transmission to pilots of informa-
tion as to wind currents, approaching
gales, rain or fog, and the best route to
take. On lonely Willis Island, in the
Coral Sea (where two operators are
maintained especially for the purpose of
communicating information respecting
cyclones), the number of observations
taken daily and the messages trans-
mitted had been largely increased for
the sake of airmen using the northern
and western mail routes.
Aviation as a means of passenger and
mail transport will be one of the great
features of the near future. In order
safely to guide high-speed machines over
deserts, oceans and mountains it is essen-
tial that every possible scientific aid be
provided. The design and manufacture
of wireless equipment for aeroplanes and
aerodrome stations is a phase of science
that is being developed in Australia.
Pilots of aeroplanes travelling within
the radius of 100 miles of Mascot will
shortly enjoy the advantages of a radio-
beacon station which will enable them
to fly direct to the aerodrome. The
equipment, which is of the latest type, is
now being installed at North Brighton.
Direction-finding equipment is in opera-
tion at Essendon, Melbourne, for the
guidance of aeroplanes across Bass Strait.
The principle on which the beacon oper-
ates is simple in character. The trans-
mitting station employs two loop aerials
placed at right angles to each other. The
letter “N” is continuously transmitted in
the Morse code from one loop and the
letter “A” from the other loop. An aero-
plane flying direct towards the beacon on
a course set by the station receives the
letters “N” and “A” with equal strength,
the two combining in a continuous
signal.
So long as the continuous signal is
heard the aviator continues towards the
beacon regardless of fog, mist or dark-
ness. Any deviation from his course
would be indicated to the aviator by
either the signal “N” or the signal “A”
being received. The aviator is thus able
to rectify the ’plane's course by steering
to the left or the right accordingly. The.
beacon transmits on a wave-length in the
region of 1000 metres, and thus will not
cause any interference to broadcast re-
ception on an ordinary receiver. The
beacon station will also enable travellers
on aeroplanes in flight, provided the
.’planes carry wireless telephone equip-
ment, to converse by word of mouth
with persons at the aerodrome.
Five aeroplanes of Holyman Airways’
Melbourne-Launceston service are fitted
with radio-telegraph-telephone equip-
ment, enabling two-way communication
to be maintained between the ’planes
and the A.W.A. direction-finding station
a t Essendon Aerodrome, Melbourne,
during the flight across Bass Strait.
Further, the Qantas Imperial Airways
’planes travelling between Australia and
Singapore keep in touch by radio with
one or other of the Australian coastal
radio stations. The distances over which
the aeroplanes have been in touch range
over 1000 miles. The significance of
this contact is the assurance to the
travelling public that passengers are never
beyond the range of communication.
Such is the popularity of the A.W.A.
world-wide short-wave broadcasting sta-
tion VK2ME Sydney in foreign coun-
tries that it was recently decided that
announcements be made in French and
German as well as English, thus en-
hancing the station’s usefulness abroad,
especially in European countries. Just
as we can listen in Australia to trans-
missions in English from many foreign
countries, so it is now possible for people
in non-English-speaking countries to fol-
low the Australian stations by their an-
nouncements in English, French and
German. During the past two years no
fewer than 15,000 letters of appreciation
have been received from listeners in
Great Britain, the Continent of Europe,
the United States and many other coun-
tries.
The schedule of VK3ME Melbourne
has been extended. The station is now
on the air every night except Sunday.
Both these short-wave stations carry on
a national service in bringing before
residents of overseas countries the ad-
vantages of Australia as a tourist resort
and keeping them informed of our re-
sources and national development.
In other directions the wireless indus-
try has progressed steadily. The year
1934 saw the establishment of facilities
to enable pictures to be sent and received
per wireless between Australia and Eng-
land. During 1935 tests have been com-
pleted which show that A.W.A. is ready
to establish a similar service with Canada
and the U.S.A. at the appointed time.
Arrangements made in 1927 whereby
the Colonial Office placed the radio net-
work of Fiji in the hands of A.W.A.
have been extended for a further period.
The company will shortly establish the
first broadcasting station in Fiji.
In October Sydney took part in a
twice-round-the-world radio message
sent by the Albert Academy of Science
in Brussels. In lmin. 40sec. the message
travelled round the world and back to
London, and then a second time by way
of Buenos Ayres, Tokio and Beyrout
to Brussels. This was an important
demonstration of how the world is linked
by wireless.
A motion-picture camera capable of
taking 2500 photographs per second and
simultaneously recording the time in one-
thousandths of a second has been devel-
oped by the Western Electric Co. in con-
junction with the Kodak Co. The high-
speed timing system includes a frequency
generator employing a tuning-fork to
control the A.C. actuating a high-preci-
sion electric clock. At full speed th-
camera uses 50ft. of 16mm. film p ei
second ; this speed is 20 times as fast an
that of the usual slow-motion film s
shown in cinemas. The equipment car.
be used to show such things as the burst-
ing of a balloon or the smashing of an
electric lamp. Modified apparatus has
been developed for the recording of times
and results at sporting events.


m
\
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale AH Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
'Phone: BWI2IB.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Twin R.F. Short-wave Receiver.
Illustrated is an unusual design for a
tuned R.F. short-wave receiver, and one
which has much to commend it. K.
Jowers, GSZJ, short-wave editor of
“Television” (England), states that sensi-
tivity even at 10 metres is exceptional,
four continents having been heard on
telephony on this band. The second
R.F. stage is untuned, thereby consider-
ably simplifying construction and opera-
tion. This idea is not new to Australia,
having been used as far back as 1928,
but with the application of modern high-
gain valves a revival of the idea is worth
trial. Although the valves used by Mr.
lowers are unobtainable in Australia,
there are many combinations of R.F.
pentodes, triodes and audio pentodes in
various makes. Good combinations to
try would be the new Radiotron IC4 in
the R.F. stages, with 30 detector and
ID4 audio, or Philips KF2 R.F. pen-
todes, 8217 detector and C243N audio
pentode. If 6.3 volt valves are used, so
much the better, as the receiver could
be used from batteries or A.C.
Casual Comment.
“Mulga”: The remarks by “D.8.K.”
about the trouble with his neighbor’s tele-
phone and the faulty earth remind me
of an experience at a country post office
—and others. A lizard was caught in
the mechanism, and in its efforts to
escape caused shorts on various lines. At
a camp at Hoxton Park one of our lines
to an artillery brigade was earthed. It
was found that cows had eaten the cover-
ing from the wire. At Cecil Park during
the war-exercises last November a line to
the 18th Battalion from Brigade was cut
by the enemy. To make sure it would
not function, the chap who severed it
tied it to a post, yet the operator was able
to work the line. In this case the “earth”
helped to carry the communications
through. Wireless sets (both “A” and
“C”) will pick up any buzzer ex-
change working is, a Don
Three (D.lll) working through a 7+ 3
or a 4 + 3.
* * * *
“R.H.A.”: Here are two service tips
unearthed while working on an ancient
A.C. mantel-model receiver. The circuit
was a straightforward “three-and-recti-
fier” utilising four-volt valves —triode
det., triode audio and power valve. It was
found necessary to remove the volume
control (a variable resistance shunted
across the reaction coil), and when this
was replaced and the set working on the
bench prior to being replaced in its
cabinet it was noticed that the shank of
the control was bent. This was carefully
straightened and job recabineted. On
test, the set made violent crackling
noises when the cabinet was tapped, and
when the volume control was operated
the noise increased. Just in time to
avoid the bother of taking out the
chassis again, it was discovered that the
once-bent shank was scraping on a metal
escutcheon plate which, in turn, was in
contact with the chassis. Since the con-
trol was insulated from the chassis, it
needed only a thin sleeve of empire cloth
around the shaft to prevent the escut-
cheon causing further trouble.
*••••«
Although aerial and earth terminals
were provided, the makers had placed a
cheap ,02mfd. condenser between one
side of the power input and chassis. With
the power plug in the socket in one par-
ticular way, a 60-watt lamp connected
between chassis and buried earth
showed almost full brilliance! The
capacity plus the faulty dielectric of the
.02 provided enough A.C. to give a nasty
shock to anyone attempting to connect
up an earth with bare hands. The re-
moval of the condenser and the attach-
ment of a legitimate earth made the
receiver fit to handle.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Static has continued very bad, and has
been much worse than last year, even
on the 20-metre band.
GSG has been excellent after 10 p.m.,
and DJE (16.8 metres), on the same
band, has often been quite good after
11 p.m., but has been inclined to be
irregular.
Another special broadcast from Ger-
many for Japan was heard as early as
8.30 p.m. DJQ was only fair here, but
reported as perfect at JVH (20 metres).
The modem ship’s radio-room presents a more compact appearance
than those of earlier days.
JVH was extra strong, but was not re-
broadcasting, being apparently used only
to check with the German station.
The three D.E.I. stations on 31, 28 and
26 metres were all good on a recent
Sunday, but RNE was still hard to fol-
low on 25 metres, on account of static
and general noise-level. RNE has at no
time equalled the strength of former
years, being best around 10 p.m.
PHI has also not been equal to last
year, and was recently heterodyned by
a ’phone station, completely ruining re-
ception on several nights.
FYA continues at great strength, and
the 25.6-metre transmission has been
good in daytime after 3 p.m.
The mornings have shown little change,
but there has been a small improvement
in strength on all stations at 7 a.m., with
GSC quite good until 8 a.m., and often
later.
The transmission to the East from
2RO from midnight onwards has been
perfect in strength and quality, and the
excellent idea has been adopted of giving
the programmes for a fortnight ahead at
the end of the English session. These
are given slowly enough to copy down,
being in excellent English, but it is un-
fortunate that the starting hour is not
earlier for Australian listeners.
The shorter waves have been very
strong. England has been heard working
New York on ’phone on about 14
metres at good strength, and a foreigner
was heard also working New York on
the same band. The Dutch ’phone
stations on 15 metres have been ex-
tremely strong, with hardly any static
trouble.
ORK has improved, and is coming
back to good strength around 6 a.m.
The new German on 25.4 metres has
been fair about 6 p.m., as was also FYA
at 7 p.m., but both suffer from high
noise-level. GSF for the same reason
has been the better of the two in the
No. 1 transmission, although GSB had
the stronger signal.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
The oldest radio club in Australia
was the scene of a pleasant get-together
of amateurs when Waverley (N.S.W.)
celebrated its seventeenth birthday on the
evening of 4/2/’35. It is no easy job,
through the years, to keep a radio club
together, but Waverley has done this in
remarkable fashion. The membership
includes several active experimenters with
a sincere interest in radio from a scien-
tific viewpoint. At present low-definition
television, preparatory to high-definition
work, is one of the interesting subject's
undertaken by senior technical officers
of the club. Readers contemplating entry
into amateur radio ranks and resident in
the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney should
apply for membership in Waverley Club.
Gordon Kempton, VK2CI, well known
in Zero Beat Radio Club circles, has
temporarily left Australian shores for
Ceylon on business. A keen experi-
menter, it goes without saying that he
will be heard, sooner or later, from some
VU amateur source.
Poor conditions have prevailed on 20-
metre DX at the writer’s location, and
the less said about 40 metres the better.
Both bands have suffered from acute
static, local interference and a general
depression. Such conditions speed up
the urge to get busy on ultra-short waves
at an early opportunity, and so a start
is being made. The rotating-beam array
of last year is now removed from the
skyline at VK2NO to make way for one
of those attractive Reinartz systems tak-
ing up only a third of the space. Supple-
mented by a Terman diamond antenna
pointing to Maoriland, it is hoped, with
something really good in transmitters and
receivers, to achieve the apparently im-
possible and get across the Tasman. The
Maorilanders are very keen to co-
operate, as evidenced in a communica-
tion from ZL3DG, technical editor of
“Break-In,” Maoriland’s amateur maga-
zine. Several of last year’s Sydney five-
metre men are beginning to talk wist-
fully of the thrills to be had on the band,
and whispers are to be heard of new
apparatus under construction in many
stations. There is plenty of incentive,
owing to the five-metre DX reports from
Europe and U.S.A. If Australians suc-
ceed in doing any unusual five-metre DX,
the effort will be outstanding, owing to
the limited number of five-metre stations
available in this country and their widely
scattered locations. There are many
Australian amateurs in country districts
who would like to use five metres, but
are disheartened by the fact that the
nearest station is several hundreds miles
distant. The writer appeals to all VKs
about to turn to five metres to start off
with advanced apparatus, and not to use
modulated oscillators or super-renegera-
tors. C.W. communication for DX
should not be overlooked, and for such
work stability in transmitters and
receivers is imperative.
VK2NO.
The Difference.
“Lo”: At the convention of the Wire-
less Institute of Australia held in Bris-
bane it was proposed that the co-opera-
tion of H.M. Customs Department should
be sought with a view to permitting the
importation, duty free, of certain experi-
mental apparatus not normally manufac-
tured in Australia. This is by no means
an unreasonable request, for the Austra-
lian experimenter is seriously handi-
capped. Either he cannot afford to pay
the price asked for imported special
components or essential apparatus of cer-
tain kinds is not imported at all and not
manufactured in Australia. It is interest-
ing by comparison to compare the lot of
experimenters in M.L. Casual reference
to advertisements in “Break-In,” the
official organ of N.Z.A.R.T., shows such
items as EBY isolantite valve sockets at
2s. 3d. each (Australian price for Ameri-
can-made isolantite sockets is 6s. and
4s. 6d. each on the average), and Crowe
velvet vernier dials at 9s. each. (The price
in Australia of a similar American dial
is around £3.) In Australia there are
fewer than 1400 licensed experimenters.
Surely it is not unreasonable to permit
them free access to indispensable overseas
goods, where such apparatus is to be
used purely for experiment and not for
resale or profit?
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Is it possible to obtain “Australian Radio
News” by mail on subscription ? —397.
The journal ceased publication as a separate
weekly magazine in June, 1934, and was in-
corporated in The Bulletin.
* * * *
(1) In a recent issue details were given for
the construction of efficient R.F. chokes for
use on 80, 40 and 20 metres. What is the
depth of the slots in the 1 fin.-diameter former ?
(2) What is the price of the “Radio Hand-
book” ? —398.
(1) fin. (2) 7s. 6d. from Swain’s, Sydney,
or McGill’s Newsagency, Melbourne.
* *•{« * *
(1) Reference is made in the details of tht
Little Twin receiver ( B. 29/1/’36) to the Mul*
lard PM2BA valve, and it is stated that this
type can be used similarly to the 19, PM2B or
5240. I understand that there is some differ-
ence in the PM2BA to the usual Class-B valves.
What is the difference ? (2) Would the charac-
teristics show any difference in this particular
receiver ? —386.
(1) It is a two-volt battery Class-B output
valve, and is designed for operation at a small
negative grid-bias of about 4J volts. The
principal advantage claimed for this arrange-
ment is that for small signal inputs the quality
of reproduction and sensitivity is improved,
since the grid current is reduced to a negligible
value. The operating data are: Filament
voltage, 2 volts; filament current, 0.2 of an.
ampere; max. anode voltage, 150 volts; recom-
mended anode voltage, 120 volts; negative
grid-bias, 4.5 volts; optimum load (anode to
anode), 14,000 ohms; maximum input
impedance, 3000 to 5000 ohms; maximum
signal voltage to each grid, 20 volts peak
(approx.). Under these conditions the static
value of the anode current (for the two halves)
will be 3 milliamperes, and the mean value
of the anode current 3.8 milliamperes for 20
per cent, modulation and 20 milliamperes for
100 per cent, modulation. The recommended
driver valve is the Mullard PM2DX. The
Class-B input transformer should in each case
have a step-down ratio of 3:1 for each\ half
overall). The total resistance of the
secondary winding should not exceed 400 ohms,
and, in order to diminish the risk of ultra-
high-frequency oscillations being generated,
with consequent “furry” reproduction" of weak
signals, it is recommended that a 10,000-ohm
resistance should be connected across each half
of the winding. Grid-bias should be applied
by a potentiometer across the grid-bias battery.
The accompanying diagram shows the whole
arrangement (2) No; as the valve is used in
an entirely different manner from that for
which it was designed.


USEFUL DATA ON AUSTIN SEVEN.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 38
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top ir
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 23ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 50.4 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 44.6 m.p.g.
seconds.
16 seconds.
third in 9
KISMET
GAUGE
40 YEARS TO
MAKE A.
GAUGE/
You may buy many tyre gauges cheaper than a
KISMET, because accuracy and finish are sacrificed
to price. They lack the forty years’ experience
which has produced the KISMET’S “Accuracy above
all.’’
The KISMET is made to the highest possible standard
of perfection.
lib. units clearly marked on wide, flat surfaces,
smartly finished in plated metals, and complete in
a leather wallet.
Remember that the KISMET represents the accumu-
lation of experience gathered over 40 years—-no other
gauge has a record such as this.
Price 6/6
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROS.j LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
«SILVER
EDGE 9 *
tfouAebtoi'
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Befaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. 71, Melbourne, Vic.
The Steering Column.
NEW AUSTIN SEVEN PUT
THROUGH ITS PACES
NOTICEABLE IMPROVEMENT IN RIDING QUALITIES
BY FRED BERRY.
C PEEDY and reliable transport for four adults at a total cost,
including overhead and depreciation, of less than Id. per
mile is claimed for the Austin Seven, and even under difficult
Australian conditions owners have found this assessment very
close to the mark.
Hitherto this style of motoring has been accompanied by
a degree of comfort below that offered by heavier full-track
vehicles, especially on rough highways, but in the ’36 model
recently tested over the “Bulletin” course a distinct and pleasing
improvement is revealed.
Naturally, rear-seat passengers are still
somewhat restricted in freedom of move-
ment, but seating position and design
have improved to such an extent that,
except on lengthy trips, no fatigue or
cramp is experienced.
Lower centre of gravity, longer wheel-
base, large-section tyres and refinements
in suspension have rendered the little
car extremely safe and comfortable at
any speed within its capacity and over
all types of roads.
Body design, always a difficult prob-
lem in the case of a short-wheel base
four-seater, has been improved, the slop-
ing radiator, neat mudguarding and
straight-line top smoothing out the
hitherto square appearance in a pleasing
manner.
From a driving viewpoint, both gear-
box and braking equipment have been
improved, the four-speed central-change
transmission allowing a high average
road speed without forcing the car to
its limit.
The four-cylinder engine is mounted in
the chassis at four points on live-rubber
supports to absorb power vibration.
With bore 56mm. and stroke 76mm., the
swept volume is 747.5c.c. R.A.C. rating
is 7.8 h.p., but 13.5 b.h.p. is delivered
at 3000 r.p.m.
The cylinders are cast en bloc, the
cylinder-head being detachable. The
crankcase is a separate casting, heavily
ribbed to provide a rigid support for the
crankshaft, and provided with an easily
removable metal sump.
The pistons are low - expansion
aluminium alloy, each with three rings
Cutaway section of front end of crankcase, showing ball-
type main bearing, permanently fitted starting handle and,
at A and B, provision for retaining lubricating oil.
above the gudgeon pin. Oil-return holes
are drilled in the two lower ring, grooves.
Connecting rods are I-section forgings
with split Babbitt big-end bearings. The
gudgeon pin is fixed in the little end and
floats in the piston.
The sturdy crankshaft runs on two
large ball-and-roller bearings, and is
drilled to convey oil from jets to the
Neat mudguards, sloping radiator and improved body lines of the ’36 Austin 7.
connecting-road bearings. The camshaft
is driven by helical gears from the crank-
shaft, and at the rear end is fitted with
a skew gear by which the submerged oil
pump is driven.
Side-by-side valves are used, the heads
being numbered to facilitate correct re-
placement when
the motor is over-
hauled. The valve
tappets are adjust-
able, the clearances
being eight thou,
inlet and ten thou,
exhaust with engine
cold. Guides are
removable.
Fuel is held in a
five-gallon tank at
the rear, and drawn
by means of a
mechanical pump,
fitted with hand-
primer, to a Zenith
V-type carburettor.
Adjustable jets are
provided for alteration in engine tuning,
and an air-cleaner is attached to the
intake pipe.
Induction and exhaust manifolds are
cast in one piece, thereby providing equal
distribution of gas and a “hot spot” to
assist vaporising fuel when starting from
cold.
Electrical equipment is six-volt type,
with coil-and-battery ignition, the distri-
butor head incorporating automatic
advance and retard of spark setting.
The generator is mounted laterally in an
accessible position immediately beneath
the fan, and is driven by skew gears
from the camshaft. The starter motor,
with dashboard control, is bolted to the
flywheel housing. A cutout and fuse-
box is mounted on the engine side of
the dash.
The cooling system is on the thermo-
syphon principle, fan assisted. Lubrica-
tion is effected by a vane pump located
in the sump, oil being pumped through
passages cast in the crankcase webs to
jets above the crankshaft throws, lubrica-
tion of the big ends being effected by
catching oil from the pump-fed jets in
pockets on the crankshaft webs. Main
bearings and pistons are lubricated by
splash and oil-mist.
Transmission is by a single-plate dry-
disc clutch, light in operation, to a four-
speed - and - reverse gearbox bolted
directly to the crankcase. The change-
speed lever is of the central ball type.
Second, third and top gears are synchro-
mesh “silent change” type, providing
ratios through differential gearing of top,
5.25 to 1 ; third, 8.73 ; second, 13.85 ;
bottom, 22.94. Road speeds at 1000
r.p.m. are: Top, 14.4 m.p.h. ; third, 8.66 ;
second, 5.46 ; bottom, 3.29.
The final drive is an Austin patented
feature, power being transmitted through
an enclosed torque tube anchored to the
main rear cross tube.
Universal joints, front
and rear, are of the
Hardy-Spicer needle-
bearing type.
The rear axle is
three-quarter floating,
and the final drive is
spiral bevel, with a
reduction ratio of 5.25
to 1.
Chassis retains the
typical Austin U
frame, with members
converging on the
front spring mounting, strength be-
ing supplemented by deep cross-
members. Rear members are upswept,
providing a low centre of gravity. Wheel-
base is 6ft. 9in.; minimum ground
Gearbox, flywheel and clutch, with cover-
plate removed, showing timing marks
and special lubricator for clutch ring.
clearance (loaded), 6?in. ; track, front,
3ft. 4in. ; rear, 3ft. 7in.
Suspension is by semi-elliptic transverse
springs at front and quarter-elliptics of
conventional design at
rear. Friction - type
shock - absorbers are
fitted front and rear.
The front axle is held
by diagonal torque
stays, anchored firmly
to the extremities of
axle and pivoted in a
robust ball-and-socket
joint attached to the
front cross-member.
Steering is light and
positive, and is of the
worm - and - worm-
wheel type, with pro-
vision for taking up
wear. Turning circle
is 38ft. Braking equip-
ment is of four-wheel
mechanical type. Both
hand- and foot-levers
apply all four brakes
simultaneously. Single-
point adjustment for
all four brakes is
readily accessible,
while additional pro-
vision is made for taking up play in the
hand-brake lever by a simple thumb-
screw adjustment.
Wire wheels with stainless-steel centres
and 4.75 x 16 tyres are fitted.
Bodywork is solidly constructed and
neatly finished, safety catches being fitted
to doors to prevent “working” or acci-
dental opening when the car is in motion.
The dashboard instruments are grouped
in a panel in front of the driving-wheel,
and include speedometer, oil-pressure
gauge, electrical fuel gauge, ammeter,
starter button, ignition and charging
switch (two charging rates), warning
light and choke control.
The car tested was an open de luxe
tourer, the speedometer reading 2474


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches * * . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
and at all newsagents.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
When a stud becomes slack in
the aluminium housing it can
be firmly caulked in position by
using a round-nosed file, as illus-
trated.
KEEP YOUR CAR
"SPIC AND SPAN"
m
A
(SSto
N° 7
m
WITH THESE 3
SPECIALITIES
Both personal pride in a well-kept car. and
increased trade-in or reselling value will be
Products of
British Australian
Lead M anufac-
lurers Ply. Ltd.,
makers of famous
“ Dulux” finishes
and “ Duco”
Lacquers
the result of a little work with these three
"Duco" Specialities. The fact that they are
made by the actual makers of "Duco" Lacquer
is sufficient guarantee of their quality and
effectiveness.
783.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
I CUABWEE
75/ more
£m*Jlo MILES
PER GALLON
\
WITH THIS AEftO'OIL
VAPORATOR
1000 FREE
TO MOTORISTS
To make the Aero-Oil Vaporator still more
popular, I am giving BEFORE MARCH 31
another 1000 FREE TO MOTORISTS, under
my new distributing plan. ALL MOTORISTS
will be interested in this new invention which
puts waste fumes back to work in a NEW WAY.
THREE DISTINCT PRINCIPLES combine to
make the Aero-Oil Vaporator the ONE AND
ONLY ECONOMISER WHICH HAS STOOD
ALL TESTS AND RISEN TRIUMPHANT.
YOUR RESULTS ARE GUARANTEED
It fits all cars, trucks and tractors easily with-
out drilling, tapping or cutting. Send for
yours NOW; enclose 2d. stamp for postage.
FREE COUPON
J. R. WALSH,
.National Distributing Company,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
My Name is
My Address is • •
My Car is a
(2d. Stamp Enclosed.)
B. 19/2 ”36.
miles. Together with driver and ob-
server, the car weighed 14jcwt.
As would be expected, the car was
extremely easy to manoeuvre in congested
traffic, the synchromesh gear-change and
easy steering permitting a fast trip to
Parramatta without at any time indulg-
ing in high speeds.
Leaving Parramatta and on the open
road through Baulkham Hills, a steady
Handbrake assembly, showing sturdy
construction of ratchet mechanism and
rapid method of adjustment by wing nut.
40 m.p.h. was maintained, and at this
economical cruising speed main-road
hills were taken without changing gear.
Approaching Pitt Town, speed was re-
duced to 15 m.p.h., and with gear-lever
in neutral the car rolled 646 yards before
coming to a standstill.
A test of maximum speed was then
made on a measured course of one mile,
and with flying start the time taken,
71 2-ssec., averaged 50.4 m.p.h.
Through Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong, the by-pass dirt road through
Grose Vale was taken, and over this
rough and heavy going the suspension
system proved surprisingly efficient, there
being a pleasing absence of chatter or
“weaving,” whilst the car held the road
and steered in a safe and satisfactory
manner.
The test climb of 2 1-5 miles of the
steepest portion of Kurrajong Mountain
was then clocked in smin. 56 2-3 sec.,
second and third gears being used
throughout, and, while the time was not
fast, it served to indicate that the sturdy
motor would pull its load up such steep
grades without resorting to bottom gear
and with ample reserve of power.
Returning down the mountain, the
emergency-braking equipment was tested
with satisfactory results.
Continuing along the cross-country
road via Castlereagh to Penrith, further
performance tests were made. First,
350 yards in top gear as slowly as pos-
sible, followed immediately by 350 yards
on full throttle, still in top. This proved
the power unit to be more flexible than
is usually supposed. The slow-running
section, covered in 3min. 7sec., averaged
3.8 m.p.h., whilst the accelerated dis-
tance, finishing at 45 m.p.h., was clocked
in 20 l-ssec., an average of 34.2 m.p.h.
In top gear, acceleration from 10 to 30
m.p.h. was timed in 16sec., and in third
gear 9sec., while from 0 to 50 m.p.h.
occupied 38sec.
A test of braking equipment showed
the car could stop from 25 m.p.h. in
23ft. 6in.
At the commencement of the test
three gallons of petrol had been placed
in the tank, and at the completion of the
journey of 113 miles 3? pints remained,
giving a fuel consumption of 44.6 m.p.g.
The average road speed, including all
tests, was 33.4 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R.E. (Rockhampton, Q.). — After overhaul-
ing and decarbonising my four-cylinder sports
car I find the motor very difficult to start even
when warm, and in addition much power
seems to be lost on hills. Any suggestions ?
As engine is fitted with overhead valves you
may have lost the timing when replacing head.
Check this against the timing chart. If cor-
rect, inspect clearance of valves with engine
hot, and examine induction system for possible
air leaks.
* * * *
M.A.G. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). — My ’26
model four-cylinder sports car has until lately
given a maximum road sped of 72 m.p.h., but
serious vibration has now developed, appearing
to come from beneath the floorboards, and it
is impossible to drive at over 55 m.p.h. with-
out shaking the instruments out of the dash.
Engine revs, are still normal when motor is
revved up in neutral. Cause and cure ?
Symptoms indicate that propeller shaft is
either out of balance or alignment, or both.
Inspect front and rear fabric universal
joints, and if these are badly frayed and the
bolt holes are “drawn” fit replacements. When
doing this swing the tail shaft between centres
and spin to test for truth and alignment.
* * * *
W.McS. (Ballarat, Vic.). — Having fitted a
radio set to my ’34 car 1 find that the battery
gets flat rapidly, as 1 do most driving by night
and use the radio as well. Can I charge the
battery by means of a trickle-charger, at
present attached to the house radio, without
having to take the battery out each time ?
Yes. There is no occasion to disconnect
main battery leads while charging, but be care-
ful to disconnect the gear before starting.
Charging rate of unit mentioned is very low,
and will not keep the battery up unless left
on for lengthy periods.
* * * *
E.N.J. (Waverley, N.S.W.). —/ have been
informed that it is advisable to speed up the
engine before switching off each night. Is
this so ?
Advice is sound, as all burned and partly-
burned gases are ejected through the exhaust
system and a clean, fresh gas mixture sucked
into the cylinders.
X * * *
C.L. (Hawthorn, Vic.). — Having been twice
held up with fuel-pump defects in my ’34 car,
l decided to fit a vacuum tank, but although
this serves the purpose when pottering around
the city the carburettor becomes starved when
the car is driven fast in the country. Can
this be adjusted ?
Fuel shortage on full power is caused by
an insufficient head of petrol as between
vacuum tank and carburettor. Lead-in to
down-draught carburettor is high up in the
engine block, and the only certain remedy
would be to put the tank outside the engine
bonnet. Best idea would be to have the fuel
pump thoroughly overhauled and repaired, as
in going order it is designed to feed the motor
on full throttle continuously.
* * * *
M. (Berridale, N.S.W.).—/ have a tin of
graphite ground to extreme fineness, dry. Will
it do for sump oil in cars and trucks ?
No. Graphite must be in a colloidal state to
use in sump, otherwise filters and oilways will
become blocked. •
* * * *
J.L. (Cookarinda, N.S.W.). — Which in your
opinion is the best car for me to buy of two
named ?
Both give excellent performance and are re-
liable. It is a matter of taste.
* * * *
S.N. (Wagga, N.S.W.). — Where can I obtain
an instruction book for a Chev. Superior K ?
Try General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., Marrick-
ville, N.S.W.
* * * *
N. (Yanna Siding, Q.). — I wish to con-
vert a ’27 model four-cylinder tourer into a
truck for station use. (1) Where can l get
drawings and instructions ? (2) Is colloidal
graphite suitable for use on a 1936 sedan ?
What brand is best, where is it obtainable and
what quantity should be used ?
(1) This chassis was never intended for use
as truck, and no instructions for conversion are
available. If the pay load exceeds 12cwt. the
frame and springs will require reinforcement,
and you will possibly have trouble with trans-
mission mechanism. (2) Yes. Any well-known
brand, from city accessory houses. Directions
for use are supplied.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“R. Hop”: We stopped on a hill
down the N. S. Wales South Coast,
and the engine began to rev. alarm-
ingly. Dad couldn’t diagnose the
trouble. A chap passing in an old
Ford was asked his advice, and after
a hasty examination said, “You’ve lost
the spring off the accelerator, but it’s
easy to fix it. Do any of the ladies
in the back seat wear garters?” (Side-
long glances from mother and the girls
and silence.) “If so, just tie the ends
of the garter to them terminals with a
piece of string and off yer go.” When
he had gone we tried it. It worked.
* * * *
“Sam”: A windscreen can play false.
Near Breeza (N.S.W.), a carload of
shearers came upon a motorist nursing
his head on the side of the road where
skidding wheels had led him. He had
swung off just in time to miss a tree,
which, he complained, was right on the
middle of the road. Since the only tree
on the plain had been passed, the men
were puzzled. At someone’s suggestion
they reconstructed the drive in the other’s
car ; sure enough, the reflection of the
solitary tree flashed in front of the driver
with disconcerting reality.
* # * #
“K.C.”: Whilst driving an old car
in C.Q. recently I ran into a tropical
downpour of rain. Ploughing through
the deep ruts I knocked a small hole in
the front of the flywheel housing. A
mixture of mud and pebbles, scooped up
through the hole, very soon brought the
old bus to a standstill. The engine had
to be taken out before the concrete
round the wheel and self-starter could
be moved.
* * * *
“Awbeca”: In Goondiwindi (Q.) a car-
owner cranked up his bus, which unhap-
pily had been left in gear. The vehicle
ran forward and, hit a post. The impact
caused the cushion of the front seat to
fall on to the gear lever, throwing it
into reverse. The passenger jumped
clear, while the car backed the corner,
crashed through a picket fence and
ended its crazy career about 20 yards
further on, but not before it had rudely
shattered the washhouse of a pub.
* * * *
“Sambo”: Good-fellowship towards a
brother-motorist in trouble, once con-
sidered an essential of good manners on
country roads, is no longer fashionable.
Cars are now so reliable that the average
driver feels secure in the knowledge that
he will not need assistance ; so he goes
on. Travelling by night, and alone, I
struck trouble near Manila (N.S.W.).
An offsider to hold a torch under the
dash for one minute would have ended
my trouble. Eleven cars flew past, but
not one eased down.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
Wheq you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
"The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. IUEUSSET, Representative.
The truth about
Advertising!
We invite you to
take our word, of
course . . . but in
case our story
sounds too good to
be true, ask the
man who advertises
in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
Net Sales , 61,361
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News : Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G Pike. First Floor.
Newsoaoer House Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Buildin*. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 3S-40 Ludeate
Hill E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency-
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the, mines ajone-
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Detail* from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt,
Department, - News, Ltd., Adelaide.
§&>**
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
me a ns better
cover for you.
in ADVERTISING
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Eet. 1842), the only daily, in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD.,’ 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
S. ALLAN,'N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
G. DOUGAN. 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
THE POWER
TO DO THE J 08...
The position that enables ns to
reach every corner of the West.
We have them both!
Broadcasting from the top of
the ranges on our new power of
1000 watts, 6AM is a sure money -
getter for the nan who has any-
thing to sell to country folk.
f
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“But 1 loved him best,” said Adela’s low, difficult
voice. “Oh, it’s true that what we love best is taken
from us always. We idolise them ; we put
them before God in our hearts and they’re
taken —they’re taken.”
Coldness touched Ruve’s heart; but she
was young and beloved —could life have such
tragedies waiting for her? Vivien, younger
than she, knew tragedy. She wanted to stop
Mrs. Bennett’s sobbing, prophetic voice.
“I shan’t live much longer, Ruve. I
haven’t the heart to live. But I’m "speaking
the truth. Each one of us worships someone
or something at heart, and we get no good
of it in the end. The ones we love go from
us or are taken. I know. I know. Don’t
set your heart on anyone or anything, and
maybe you’ll have peace if you haven’t happi-
ness. That father of yours, with his island.
He put it first, and what has he got? Elena!
Vivien! Each one of us —we’re defeated in
the end.”
A dreadful cynicism looked out of Mrs.
Bennett’s fever-bright eyes; her hot hand
stirred convulsively in the‘girl’s she held.
“When your time' comes, Ruve, you’ll
wonder whether life’s worth it all. You’re young
now, and you’ve got your Dick and you’re
happy. I know. But it all goes—it all goes.”
“Dear Mrs. Bennett, don’t,” Ruve said.
“You frighten me.” ’ -
Mrs. Bennett did not seem to hear. She
looked up with wide, terrified eyes.
“Denny’s drowned, Ruve. My Denny!
He was so young—my Denny.” '
Over and over again that weary sobbing
of the beloved name. Old Moga shuffled in,
and with a finger to her lips motioned Ruve
to leave them together.
Looking back from the door, she saw
Adela Bennett become quiet under the old
blind woman’s ministering hands. But there
in the sunlight the ominous words remained
with her.
She found a new Elena, haggard and
defiant.
“You’re lucky to be out of it, Ruve,”
Elena said. “Father’s gone back to Ruvia —
he may be drowned, for all I know. I couldn’t
stop him. He’s disowned Vivien—over Denny.
And he and I have quarrelled—things will
never be the same again. God knows what
will become of us all.”
“Quarrelled with you! ” Ruve cried in
astonishment. “Why, he worships you.”
“He did. He never will again,” said
Elena bitterly. “He learnt too much about me
last night. Let him go! I never cared for him.
It’s Vivien I’m troubled over.”
“Where is she?”
“She ran out like a wild thing to Adela.
I expect they wept together all night. Adela is
ill, they tell me. I’ve had my sorrow, too—but
tears don’t bring back the dead. Mother brought
Vivien back —she could always do more with her
than I could. The child seems to have turned against
me, because it was through me Denny went with
Peter. As if I could know! I thought I was doing
all for the best.”
Ruve found Vivien terribly changed—like the
ghost of herself, so drained was she of color and
youth. She scarcely stirred at Ruve’s entry. She
seemed passive, had few words and the faint smile
she tried to summon was more pitiful than tears.
“Vivien! Darling!”
“Don’t tell me I must try to rouse myself,”
Vivien said. “Mother does —and I can’t. I don’t
want to live.”
“Darling, you’re so young. You’re grieved
now more than you’ve ever been, but there’s
happiness still for you. You’ve all your life
to live, precious.”
“There may not be so much more of it,”
Vivien said. “I hope there isn’t.”
Looking at her, so sunken, so passive,
she who had been so vital and full of joy, ’
Ruve felt a pang of fear. But Vivien had
always j been a creature of extremes; this
would pass. She was too young to lose hold
on life.'
Vivien spoke again.
“Take all you can out of life, Ruve,”
she said, suddenly urgent. “I did—and even
now I’m glad. If Denny had lived life would
have been gay and beautiful for me, even if
we’d had to live half-naked on a beach. Do
you think I didn’t know how weak he was—
that he would never get on much? But he
was Denny —and all that didn’t matter. You
don’t love people for what they do—it’s just
because you can’t help it. And now- all the
brightness seems to have gone out with Denny.
You didn’t'know I thought all these things,
did you, Ruve? You and Rod love color and
beautiful words, but I saw everything beauti-
ful in loving Denny and sharing life with him.
And all over and done with so soon. Rod
and I —we’ve lost what we wanted ; you be
the one of us to be happy, Ruve. Get all
you can from life. I wouldn’t want you to
be. sad if I died, Ruve: I like to think that
you’re' the one of us marked for happiness.
One must be—must be.”
“Darling child, you’re not going to die.
You mustn’t talk like this.”
1 . “Perhaps not yet,” said Vivien wearily.
“But 1 don’t want to live—l can’t go on now,
Ruve. And, after all, I’ve been happy. You
mustn’t pity me. You must be happy, too. I
want that with all my heart. Be happy
while you can —you never know what may
happen.”
Again Ruve felt the cold touch her heart;
both from Mrs. Bennett and Vivien came these
ill-omened words.'
“Go back with Dick, darling,” Vivien
said. “You’re not to stay and worry over
me. There’s nothing you can do —and, after
all, dearest, you’re on your honeymoon. Kiss
me, Ruve, and go. You’ll come to me, I
know, if ever I want you.”
Ruve, in tears, bent down ; the two girls
kissed.
“You’re crying,” Vivien said. “How
strange! I can’t cry any more. I think I never
will cry any more.” ,
Into the room came old Batila. She looked
anxiously and adoringly at the young girl, who
seemed to have fallen again into the state of apathy
and stillness in which Ruve had found her.
{To be continued next week.)
CHAOS.
Chaos, not Justice, lets the balance nod
this side and that in one extended hand. ■ •
If there be law, then Chaos, blindfold god,
gives it a clerk’s work taking the plain count
in which pan falls what weight, dribbled like sand
through fingers, clenched, of the hid fist wherein
all shapes . unfold from their eternal Fount.
And if the bar sag, sway and return
to the level mean, and nowhere a wild spin
sets it in overthrowal, raining dreads,
so you might think he sleeps, and Plan discern —
let those who tossed up pennies thousandfold
supply true answer, matching tails with heads;
for none less errant did that copper teem
in rioting shower although the tally, told,
split even : it seems should Chaos load one scale
then some scared chance swings back the dangered beam.
So many his playthings they drag eacfi on each
unmastered, make no union to prevail
in downrush of order, in landslide of time’s trend,
such as might scar night’s hillfront with a breach
so sore as to engulf that hill-dropped down
immeasurably in ruin and to no end ;
yet, when untamed and fierce like plunging horses
they jostle and win no headway, and nought’s shown
of real non-rule, this is itself non-rule,
an-infinite conflict of ungoverned forces.
Wherefore the concourse props at fluid stay
•as creeks, checked by their stones, flood wide and pool,
but having outlet still run on ; and when
meeting the tide, checked in that larger sway,
you might deem some flow at cease, why, still it flows,
through clouds and air repeats its course again—
always checked, always in movement, check and speed
being the circle-ends, brought round, made close.
Such is the unstable balance of what thought
has told us is our world, whether indeed
thought lie or no. But what of our poor tribe ?
Our substance shadows, shadows dreams, dreams nought
All drowned, submerged and vanishing! Stoutest rocks
a freak of Chaos, the unhappy gibe
of ravishing wills that tear each other’s flanks —
steady one moment while the tumult locks
their fangs together, standing only a space
tike an eddy in a stream that has no banks!
what can we hope to gain with our best toil,
with life itself ? What wring from this bleak place ?
We are despoiled and spoilers, but what is the spoil ?
FIJI.
ROVERT D. FITZGERALD.


Pyorrhea Attacks
4 out of 5
NO disease can be more insidious than one which does
not announce its dangerous presence until real damage
has been done the victim.
Such is the pernicious nature of Pyorrhea , dread disease
of the gums, which is responsible for one-half of all adult
teeth lost.
According to dental authority, it may infect your mouth
early in life. The germs first lodge at the “tartar line,” where
teeth meet gums, and their virulent breeding may last 10
years before you become aware of your condition.
Do not wait for gums to bleed
Once it is established, Pyorrhea cannot be cured by
Forhan’s or any other toothpaste.
In most cases, Pyorrhea does not begin its real work of
havoc until the victim reaches forty, after which age four
people out of five suffer for neglecting this infection.
So before Pyorrhea strikes you with tenderness and
bleeding of gums, seek the advice of modern dentistry. See
your Dentist at least twice a year. And in your home give
your mouth the finest care. Twice a day brush your teeth,
massage your gums, with Forhan’s.
Protect the teeth you have
Your own teeth are far better than anything you can
get to replace them. Perhaps you do not realise what a
blessing they are, so long as they are firm and your gums
are in good health. But do not risk the unhappy experience
of losing them.
Forhan s is a dentifrice prepared not only to remove
film and tartar and make teeth bright and brilliant, but also
3&33K
>> -
g&ga m. v£*mw&HSBXm
<y<
tm
M V
: i--v.
• •"
Not a trace of infection
The dentist is equipped to detect
the minutest indication of trouble
in the mouth. He can prevent
serious teeth decay and search out
hidden poison pockets dangerous
to the health. See him at least
twice a year if fqr nothing more
than to get a clean bill of health.
to keep the pro-
tecting gums firm
and healthy, thus
warding off the
hidden menace, so dangerous to the life of the teeth.
Use the dentrifice developed by
a dentist
Forhan s is the discovery of a dentist, R. J. Forhan,
D.D.S., who for 26 years specialised in the treatment of
Pyorrhea. It is unique in that it contains the benefits of an
ethical preparation which dentists are using throughout the
world in the treatment of this dread disease.
For thoroughly cleansing the teeth,
for helping to stimulate in gums the
coral glow of health, there is no finer
dentifrice than this scientific preparation.
For that reason you can make no better
investment in the health of your mouth
and the safety of your teeth.
Price, 2/-; extra large tube, 3/-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Forhan’s
for the gums
•■lf'
•*ri*r‘**r t
T £GU>
rm
WiTH
I ' »«'AV!
P * :vv vv*wi
mm • -isc-Hi*
pr, }£son
1
Wiii: ••
'0- • -1 ti#tiw£iiii& vi
PH AN CC
rw v / . »./ e
: i£*?
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE
IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
/am
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
&
S'P
6 a
V' 6
,»«
*o*
#
>v$ S
s ‘
tM*
A
C' v
C6 < o<
,\V-


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
ID' l' f ' '■ •"••v'iv : ,Vv>' t , V\.*. ...
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The , Progressive Australian
Company
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss - - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager
