

RUWOLT
MINING MACHINERY ANFEOUIPMENT
m
: -
ffK
m
.
it
mm
• v.* .
m
sg| >" 1 1
li
mm ■ i
ill
MMRI
1
1
■ i
■. v
Ml
-V si
5? ■
H
iSi*
*
ii ■ s
7T
i
'1
'
hi
*
M
iy
•■'■■ vI
£ s -x 'Jifc. £?
d
WMSmm
•: v
:,-i-•
■
: v >'
I
t '>h
.
H
*1
I
:
:•• ••:•
,
•:: : ;, V; A
il
iiii
.
Z/2 ■ }.\ /.
;•;' ■ ■'-x;-: :
■■
m
■
-
..
■Vi-.-!'
Four large Ball Mills just shipped to Western Australia. This is
portion of a large contract for the manufacture and supply of
Treatment Plant Equipment for the Big Bell Mines, Ltd., W.A.,
to handle 30,000 tons per month and is typical of the class of
work in which we specialise.
THE PRINCIPAL MINING ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS AND
CONTRACTORS IN AUSTRALASIA
Charles Ruwolt Proprietary Limited
AND*WORKS?- RICHMOND, VICTORIA
Cables and Telegrams: Ruwolt, Melbourne
Codes: Bentley; Broomhall
The Bulletin
Crown , Church and Canberra
Vol. 57.—N0. 2966.
Wednesday, December 16, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


S. H, Prior Memorial Prize
Closing Date, June 6, 1937,
For particulars of the third com-
petition for this annual literary prize
of £lOO, write the Secretary, the
Prior Prize, Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
will be sent Free and Post Free to any
address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Ķ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
SB. 336
The Red Page
THESE
AUSTRALIAN
WRITERS
The conflicting
comments of
Hilary Lofting
and Roger
Christie. (B.
18/11/’36) on my
article on this
subject are only the head and tail
respectively of the same bad critical
penny which has been circulating among
local scribes for years.
While Mr. Lofting laments that “not
10 per cent, of our writers can get away
to adjust their focus,” and longs for a
life “formalised, thinned and quiet” and
a “thousand years of tradition” (which
apparently made the work of the late
Charles Dickens so easy), Mr. Christie
thumbs his nose at “the overseas brand
of culchah” and dumps on my door-
step a litter of prejudices against Austra-
lian art of which I deny the fathership.
“The feeling of strain, of shyness and
unease” in local authors, the existence
of which Mr. Lofting presumably
admits, is due not to failure of Austra-
lian writers to go overseas, nor to lack of
a thousand years of literary tradition.
It is due, as originally stated, to lack
of adequate literary equipment and un-
familiarity with their subject. If a
writer’s vision of reality is grotesque and
out of focus, if his subjective approach
to objectivity is befuddled and round-
about, then that writer is deficient in
aesthetic self-training, in powers of ob-
servation and in literary skill.
The ability to analyse and sift reality
is as much a part of “literary skill” (I
refer to the novel) as the shaping of.
paragraphs or the handling of words.
The work of an artist should be judged
on its effectiveness as a whole, not on
the principle used by a teacher in judg-
ing a schoolboy’s essay, 10 marks for
subject matter, 10 marks for composi-
tion, 10 mark? for construction and the
like.
The claim that Dickens’s work was
made easier by the literary traditions
formed by preceding writers is merely
absurd, and denies the possibility of all
spontaneity and originality in new litera-
ture by dismissing it as a mere parroting
of what has already been said before.
Authors may, and frequently do, derive
help from the “testing and re-testing” of
past writers, but to limit the past writers
from whom a modern writer may obtain
guidance, as Mr. Lofting appears to do,
to those of that author’s own country is
sheer nonsense.
Dickens certainly did learn from
earlier writers, Smollett', for instance. But
the things he learnt, a certain turn of
phrase, a persistent habit of caricature,
are comparatively unimportant. The
reality which Dickens had to face was
entirely different from that confronting
Smollett, and, far from helping him “to
write without a moment’s doubt as to
what was good or bad,” the works of the
eminent Doctor were about as useful to
him as an index to reality as the. same
gentleman’s medical knowledge would
be to a physician of to-day.
Writers undeniably are influenced by
the works of past authors, but’ their
scrutiny of past literature is not affected
by national boundaries. The wowser-
genius Tolstoy, ironically enough, was
influenced by the larksome prose of
Laurence Sterne, and Gogol’s Dead Souls
and Sinclair Lewis’s Main Street are but
echoes of Don Quixote and Madame
Bovary respectively. Our own Harry
Lawson, to his detriment, was affected
by the sentimentality of Charles Dickens,
Lack of a tradition shouldn’t worry
any Australian writer. In addition to
the fact that practically every part of
Australia (geographically, I mean) has
been written about—even if crudely—he
bas, if he requires it, the whole litera-
ture o£ , he workl (despite a U tfle bin-
drance by the censorship) at his disposal,
rr J ..- , . f ...
If our writers have to be spoon-fed with
succeed In Seating a Worthy Aus
Hteratu ‘ ej no m f tter how y many
Gook’s tours they take. Despite my
criticism o£ them> j dotft think our
wr iy e rs are as lily-livered as that,
... . . . ' ~ .
° th ? r slde o£ the P e " n y>
Mr - Christies criticism, we are in he
presence of another group of rejuvenated
arguments. In place of believing that
there is something m the Australian atmo-
.sf,hfe ’nmical to good writing I believe
tha ~n o generation of authors has had a
reality so stimulating as that confronting
Arts rallan writers to-day. Indeed, the
“hole tenor of my article was the neces-
** Australian writer to write
about the scenes and people surround-
. him - Far f rom being a defeatist
adack Q n Australian literature and a
-g en ( cc | sighing for the overseas brand
c | cu , chah “.. was a purely objective
stud y ( as £ar as t j te limitations of space
a|]o ' ed , certain outstanding weak-
much preS ent-day Australian
writ i n g and a plea for “naturalness” (i.e.,
Austr ® fian ), instead of an imported high-
brow attitude
Like Mr - Loftin g, Mr - Christie takes
show? Z hfs rmaks about 'ihe Great
Australian Nove l is ,. Who is the Great
R j Novelist> the Great French
Novelist> the Great English Novelist? The
idea tha one day a Novelist-hereinafter
f d the y G reat Australian Novel-
ist_wiu arise is nonscnse , Like other
; we shall have many great novel-
One-Henry Handel Richardson-
h , d J others wiu come in
tjme _ but not J ntil our critics learn t 0
treat their subject more realistically and
ser j ous | y- The minting of a new critical
coinage is a neces sity.
DENTON PROUT.
Big Canvas
Hovel
Having long
lamented the un-
duly large can-
vases of many
Australian novels
I found exceptional interest in Miles
Franklin’s Red Page remarks supporting
them. Miss Franklin’s own Prior Memo-
rial Prize winner, All That Swagger, is a
marked example of what I had had in
mind. Very little finer work has yet
been done in an Australian novel than
Johanna and Danny Delacy, and the
vision of old colonial days will be found
very hard to better anywhere in our
fiction. Again the author shows a strik-
ing quality of brevity in phrasing con-
structed with picturesque words, one of
the chief characteristics 'Of this novel.
I assume it is these three points which
won for it the Prior Prize. I cannot recol-
lect any better novel of the Australian
soil in recent years unless it be Brian
Penton’s Landtakers.
It is a controversial question, this use
or otherwise of big canvases. But
although the impulses of the writer are
better left spontaneous and unconfined,
authors write for money, even if not
wholly dependent on writing for a living,
and the effect of overcrowded canvases
on the reader must therefore be gauged
if possible.
It should be obvious how difficult it
can be to average readers —the people
who make novels pay—to have so many
sidetracks to follow, when these are
flimsily attached to the main story.
The effort of memory tacitly called for
in such a story is more than most
readers can give. Another disability
enters when a minor character appears
momentarily, walks off the stage, and
then reappears without any announce-
ment or earlier preparation. This is con-
fusing and prevents the reader from fully
appreciating the intent and meaning of
the author.
This sort of thing is constantly seen
in the stage production of plays, but the
factors are totally different. A play is
seen in the course of a few hours at one
sitting, whereas to read a novel usually
takes about five hours at intervals spread
over a week or a fortnight, or, as with
this serial, a period of eight weeks. In
the serial, however, the list of charac-
ters could be readily referred to for
checking up on minor characters when
necessary. If this were done by authors
in their books, as sometimes it is, the
greatest objection to overcrowding would
be removed. A good example is Philip
Lindsay’s London Bridge Is Falling, in
which such a list obviates any confusion,
though the canvas is very crowded.
Another drawback to the crowded
novel is that the author, aware of the
excess of material, feels a constraint
which makes much of the work, both in
character and incident, far too sketchy.
This is the only serious fault in All That
Swagger. Lucidity in narrative suffers,
and the reader’s contact with the inci-
dent's and their figures is too brief to
make as deep an impression as it should.
W. R. COTTMAN.
Baldwin
Bashed
Stanley Bald-
win was once de-
scribed as “Eng-
lish to the core.”
That was enough
for Carl Bechhofer Roberts. He meta-
phorically, if not actually, takes off his
coat, rolls up his sleeves, lights his pipe
—no, not his pipe, that would be too
Baldwinish: jabs a cigar in his mouth,
chews it, dips his pen in gall, and starts
his book thus:
“Like so many supposedly representa-
tive Englishmen, Stanley Baldwin is only
half English,” and for four pages shows
that, while Baldwin’s father was Eng-
lish, his mother was half Scottish and
half Welsh —thus proving that' Baldwin
is wholly British and therefore, accord-
ing to Carl Bechhofer, no good at all.
This book, Stanley Baldwin, Man or
Miracle ? (Robert Hale, Ltd.), is a de-
bunking biography of the type that has
become the vogue in these cynical days.
Roberts tried it once before in This
Side Idolatry, which was an attack on
Dickens in the form of a novel, but no-
thing can hurt Dickens now. On the
other hand, having been his private sec-
retary, Roberts wrote Birkenhead (F. E.
Smith) into the hero class, and having
done that he must of necessity consign
Baldwin to the pigs.
Even at school “we are told” one of
his masters said to him, “Baldwin, you’ll
never do anything wrong. You haven’t
brains enough. But you’ll never do any-
thing big either.” On leaving the uni-
versity Baldwin started in his father’s
business, “keeping the cash book at £2 a
week.” “It is notoriously difficult to
keep a good man down, especially when
he is the son of the proprietor,” says his
biographer, kindly, and at 25 Stanley
was virtual head of Arthur Baldwin and
Co., the s ironfounders. At 33 he went
into the local County Council, and,
according to Roberts, should have stayed
there. At 38 he lost a safe Tory seat,
but at 40 his father died, and Stanley
took his seat and his fortune unopposed
(he is an only child). For years he “sat
silent and unremarked on his back
bench, a typical, kindly, self-satisfied and
somnolent representative of a backwoods
family constituency.”
In 1916 he was chosen as unpaid Par-
liamentary secretary to Bonar Law be-
cause “he was discreet enough to be 'safe’
and ‘stupid’ enough not to intrigue.”
From that it was a short step into the
Ministry, but “nobody dreamed that in
a very few months he would rise from
mediocrity to become Prime Minister.”
Baldwin didn’t dream it himself, but
when the Conservatives felt they were
strong enough to carry on without Lloyd
George’s coalition they soon found faults
and excuses enough to smash it. Baldwin
joined in the hunt because L.G. was too
“dynamic,” and when Bonar Law formed
his Ministry Baldwin was Chancellor of
the Exchequer because Birkenhead,
Austen Chamberlain, Balfour and Sir
Robert Horne, all his seniors, refused to
join or were not asked. Within a few
months Law became too ill and the
King had to choose between Curzon and
the mediocrity. Curzon was in the Lords,
the wrong House., and Baldwin became
Prime Minister, profiting by an amazing
series of political accidents. Almost im-
mediately he threw his Government
away, and Roberts declares it was a
speech by S. M. Bruce on Imperial pref.
erence that started it. Baldwin is shown
as a man who smashed one coalition
(Lloyd George’s) and joined another
(Ramsay MacDonald’s), thus proving his
inconsistency ; who was Prime Minister
because on two occasions his leader re-
signed through ill-health (Bonar Law and
MacDonald), thus proving his luck;
whose bungles are notorious, but who
always finds a scapegoat, thus proving his
good management. “He is Simplicis-
simus, but never so simple as his exas-
perated tormentors are. misled inta
thinking him.”
His most exasperated tormentor at
present is Bechhofer Roberts, who can-
not solve his own riddle.
T. D. MUTCH.
A Debussy
Biography
It may be true
of Debussy, as
Debussy said of
Wagner, that he
was a sunset mis-
taken for a dawn, but to expect him to
be a dawn, or, in other words, to found
a new school, was absurd. As Edward
Lockspeiser points out in the first im-
portant English biography of the com-
poser—Debussy (Dent’s Master Musician
Series; 4s. 6d. net) —Debussy hated
schools, and his artistic development was
a struggle to get away from them. He
had first to escape Massenet and then
Wagner.
In some respects Debussy’s career, as
outlined by Mr. Lockspeiser, parallels
that of Berlioz. Both were students of
the Paris Conservatorium ; both won the
Prix de Rome ; both found the pedants
of the Con. and the old fogies who ran
the Opera House very far from liberal
in their appreciation of new ideas. But
whereas Berlioz in his student days was
a Gluck-idolator, Debussy seems to have
looked on the whole galaxy of classical
composers with an iconoclastic eye. He
was ever at loggerheads with his profes-
sors. He told Guiraud, who taught conv
position, that with the 24 semitones in
the octave a composer could make any
scales he wished, with from six to 21
notes ; that music was neither major nor
minor, but might be both at once. So
he shook himself free of the shackles of
the old European scales and modes —and
borrowed equally old ones from the
Javanese who played at the Paris Ex-
position.
It seems as well that he did, for his
impulse was to capture in music such
elusive subtleties as Manet and Renoir
were revealing in paint—a very delicate
business for which the old methods were
deemed insufficient. How insufficient
they were in Debussy’s case may be
gauged from the fact that he requested
interpreters of his piano works to regard
the instrument as one without hammers!
His choice of subjects for his composi-
tions is instructive —Rossetti’s “Blessed
Damozel,” Mallarme’s “Afternoon of a
Faun,” Maeterlinck’s “Pelleas and Meli-
sande,” Leconte de Lisle’s _ “Flaxen-
haired Girl” —literary impressionism of
a new sort.
As to Debussy the man, he seems to
have had as many inconsistencies as most
human beings. Though no artist ever
stuck more stoutly to his own guns or
refused more stubbornly to bow the knee
to Baal, he craved sympathy and affec-
tion, always attaching himself like a vine
to someone to whom he could tell his
troubles. One of the earliest of these
dearly-loved friends was a M. Vasnier,
with whose wife Debussy was on much
too intimate terms! But Debussy had
many love affairs before his first mar-
riage, in 1899, to a little Parisian dress-
maker, Lily Texier, who was not at all
arty but made him a very good wife. He
deserted her for the rich Madame Bardoc
six years later. The deserted Lily at-
tempted suicide. Debussy lost most of
his friends, and, his second marriage
being less successful than his first, be-
came immersed in mental gloom. It is
noteworthy that from the date of his
second marriage he produced no work
of importance. He died in 1918, leaving
behind some of the most wondertui
orchestral effects ever devised.
Debussy for some time earned his liv-
ing as a musical critic, the one job on
earth for which he was least fitted. He
was out of sympathy with most of the
composers and executive musicians of is
day, and was quite capable of aUowl ”§
political or racial prejudices to s
him (as in the case of an ill-temp
attack on Grieg). However, he paid a
flowery tribute to Delius (who was
in the same year as Debussy), and in is
(Continued on page 9.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'’—and in every act.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
THE SENIOR STORE .
HURRY TO TOYLAND
AND CHOOSE THEIR
m:
•*
® TIPPING TRUCK
Peerless” Tipping Truck QO /
No. 17, for children 3 to 6 "
years. Length 44in., height 16in.
Well constructed and complete with
all accessories. 9in. rubber-tyred
disc wheels.
At Anthony Horderns’, 38/-
• SPORTS CAR NO. 24
For children 3 to 7 years. Length QQ/C
42in., height 21 in. Fitted with
9in. rubber-tyred disc wheels. Crank drive,
nickel-plated bumper bar, lamps, horn and
tail light. At Anthony Horderns’, 38/6.
110/-
• PEERLESS DE LUXE
Beautiful streamlined
model with dicky seat.
Length overall 56in., height 26in.
For children 5 to 8 years. Chain
drive and all accessories. Electric
headlamps.
At Anthony Horderns’ .. £5/10/-
sm
o
V-
• OLDSMOBILE CAR
How important he will
feel driving an Olds-
mobile! This one is beautifully'
designed and enamelled Rod, Blue
or Green. Length 46in., height
22in. Stamped steel spoke wheels,
rubber-tyred. At Anthony Hor-
derns' 46/9
46'9
# Cyclops Scooter
A Scooter will give OC/
sturdy boys all the ”
exercise they need. This
one is made to stand hard
usage. Length 44in., height
35in. 1 1 in. disc wheels,
rubber-tyred. Roller-bearing
brake and streamlined mud-
guard. At Anthony Hor-
derns’ 25/-
ĸ
K
• TRAILER TRIKE
Heavy loads and O 1 /Cl
rough treatment “* v
won t harm this toy; because
the frame is sturdy iron and
so well constructed. The
tray measures 15in. x Il£in.;
front wheels 11 in., bach
wheels Tin. At Anthony
Horderns’ 21/6
@ TRICrCLES
An ideal toy for C\*y fCt
tiny tots from 3 O
to 6 years of age. Tri-
cycles with tubular frames,
ball-bearing wheels and
pedals. Heavy cushion
tyres and coil spring saddle.
Attractively finished. At
Anthony Horderns’, 62/6
9 Scooter de Luxe
“Peerless” OC
Scooter de Luxe. “
Length 42in., height 35in.
Fitted patent shock
absorber, roller-bearing
wheels, brake and rubber
foot mat. 11 in. rubber-
tyred disc wheels. At
Anthonv Horderns’, 25/-.
® Cane Pram
What little
girl would
not be thrilled to
own such a Pram?
It is made of stout
cane and has iron
wheels. At
Anthony
Horderns’, 6/9.
9 mm
6/9
30/-
# DOLL'S PRAM
I his is the Pram she OZ"!/
would love for that new "
dolly. It is beautifully made of
Cream Enamelled Cane, lined in
Blue or Pink. With Sin. rubber-
tyred wheels. At Anthony
Horderns' 30/-
THE YOUNGSTERS ARE SURE TO APPRECIATE
THESE!
• PLAY TENT
A Play Tent will delight 1
the kiddies. Put one up * “
in your yard. Complete with poles.
Size 5ft. x 4ft. Price ...... 12/6
Without poles. Price, each, 10/6.
Freight paid on Tent', but not on
the poles.
# Mickey Mouse Train
The favourite Mickey 1 C\/
has his own Train Set. * v V
In a compact box. And it will
amuse a small boy for
hours. An engine,
two carriages and
rails in the set.
At Anthony Hor-
derns’ 10/6
• TOY TELEPHONE
A 7 oy Telephone like this AlCt
one will win the approval ** VJ
of any boy or girl. It will afford
lots of interesting fun. At Anthony
Horderns’ 4/6, 5/6
• HUMMING TOPS
Great big Tops that make *| JQ
a merry humming tune ' *7
when they spin. They’re painted in
lovely colourings. At Anthony
Horderns’, 1/9, 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6.
1 hese afford endless amusement.
• MAGIC LANTERNS
Give the kiddies a Magic A /Ct
Lantern, and they can have all * V#
the pictures they want at home.
These are well made. At Anthony
Horderns’ .......... 4/6, 6/6, 7/6
Extra slides for lanterns, per dozen,
1/9, 2/6, 4/6.
® Toys—Second Floor. Free delivery
City and Suburbs only.
Ķ
’Phone M2401,
Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712C, G.P.O.


OUT OF THE PAST
BOXING DAY
J-H-M- ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
is a certain direct brutality about the
English character which I have long admired,”
writes the Baron von Big in those journals
from which I have as often quoted. “A word
and a blow is the way of these islanders, and the way
of their colonial offspring as well, and if they are slow
to anger they are unrelenting in the appeasement of
their wrath. And nothing gives them greater satis-
faction than the appearance of two black eyes and
a bloody nose in the countenance of an opponent.
“Since a morning on the coast of Portugal when
I saw a seaman and a marine settle a dispute in the
sandhills behind the beach near the mouth of the
Mondego River, where the English army landed in
1808, I have always been keenly and deeply interested
in this characteristically British form of combat.
Before coming to New South Wales in T 7 I was a
votary of pugilism, and numbered amongst my friends
Gentleman Jackson, Jem Belcher, Tom Cribb, John
Gully and other ornaments of the ring. And after
my arrival in this country I was no less enthusiastic
in the encouragement of ‘the noble art’ than I had
been in England. ‘Young’ Kable—the first Aus-
tralian-born boxer to make a name for himself—and
his opponent Clark were both my friends, as were
Ned Chalker, Bailey and George Hough.
“It was this enthusiasm for boxing and prize-
fighting that prompted me, in the later summer
months of the year 1836, to arrange a meeting on
a grand scale of all those similarly interested, to be
held at Pampeluna, my estate near Parramatta,
during the Christmas season of the year, and I spared
neither expense nor personal effort to ensure that it
should be a notable success. For a while subsequently
1 had my regrets, but have since come to regard the
events of that hectic day and night with the philo-
sophy which has ever been my beacon of existence.
“I found little difficulty in
arranging the preliminaries for
this tournament. The Governor,
Sir Richard Bourke, gladly con-
sented to become patron of the
meeting, and a committee was
assembled consisting of Messrs.
W. C. Wentworth, of Vaucluse,
Mr. John Blaxland, of Newing-
ton, Mr. William Lawson, of
Veteran Hall at Prospect, the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, rector of St.
John’s Church at Parramatta, the
Rev. Robert Forrest, of The
King’s School, Sir John Jamison,
of Regentville, Bishop Polding, of
the Catholic community, and the
Rev. Father Therry, of Campbell-
town, Captain John Piper, of
Alloway Bank, near Bathurst,
and myself.
“It was decided, since the gathering of sports-
men contemplated was to be wholly concerned with
boxing, that no more appropriate date could be
chosen for its holding than that of December the
26th. As Bishop Polding explained at our first meet-
ing the day after Christmas has immemorially been
regarded in England as the appropriate date for the
conferring of gifts incidental to the festive season,
and, he said, it would therefore be altogether suit-
able to hold our tournament, and bestow our rewards
for the various boxing champions it was hoped to
discover, on Boxing Day itself.
“K/JY house at Pampeluna is so situated near the
summit of the slopes of Castle Hill that the
road from the Vale of Parramatta is. clearly visible
from the southern verandah, and I shall not soon
forget its aspect on that bright summer morning in
the last week of 1836.
“A numerous company of friends had accepted
my invitation to spend Christmas under my roof,
and a truly representative gathering of ‘the Quality’
had assembled at Pampeluna on Christmas Eve.
Together we stood outside my dining-room after
breakfast on Boxing Day and watched the constant
stream of visitors that poured into the paddock from
soon after sunrise. It was as representative a crowd
of the citizenry of New South Wales of the period
as might have been brought together on any public
occasion.
“The house paddock at Pampeluna slopes down
to a tree-bordered creek, with a depression in the
middle that gives it the shape of a natural amphi-
theatre, and it was at the bottom of this hollow that,
upon a little flat of springy green turf, we had staked
out a twenty-four-foot ring. Around the hollow in
the hillside the cattle tracks of many years afforded
convenient and comfortable seating accommodation,
and by eleven o’clock the cluster of human beings
about and above the ring resembled from the veran-
dah of the homestead the swarming of a hive of
bees, and was continuously being added to and in-
creased in density by trickles of sporting pilgrims
dribbling without cessation over the hilltop.
“Beside the ring I had pitched a large tent, in
which was provided an abundant variety of refresh-
ment and everything to drink, from Squire’s beer
to the rarest wines. This was for ‘the Quality.’ For
the rest, a capacious booth of green boughs, equipped
generously with beer and rum, had been erected on
the bank of the creek, and, a little way removed from
it, some of my men were engaged in roasting an ox
over a slow fire. I was determined to make the
occasion a memorable one.
“"THE preliminary bouts took place in the fore-
* noon, between eleven and one o’clock, when
an adjournment of two hours for the banquet gave
universal satisfaction. My guests came with me to
the house, whilst the remainder of the company
regaled itself uproari-
ously by the banks of
the creek.
“At half-past three
was to take place the
principal event of the
day—an encounter be-
“I’d like to be askin’ ye, gintlemin, is the company prisint to be sthrictly neuthral
or is it permissible to take sides?”
tween Denis Driscoll of South Creek, the Hawkesbury
champion, and a young fellow from Hunter’s River
named Peter Jones, both heavyweights, and both
reputed invincible by their supporters. Throughout
the colony this contest had given rise to the liveliest
anticipation, and feeling ran high in the matter. I
was, I confess, a little alarmed to find, during the
morning, that the fight had resolved itself into a
question of the respective merits and worth of
‘Sterling’ and ‘Currency.’
“Driscoll, an Irishman and an old soldier, was
‘Sterling’—that is, born in the British Islands —whilst
Peter Jones was a ‘Currency Lad’ who had first seen
the light in the colony. These have ever been danger-
ous opposing factions in New South Wales, but,
though I regretted the raising of such an issue, I trusted
that the spirit of Christmas goodwill would prevail
and everything pass off pleasantly and peaceably.
“At the house, dinner passed over happily
enough. His Excellency made a speech, proposing
my health, to which I replied. Each of the Judges
spoke, in order of precedence. And then that red-
headed young Irishman, Father Therry, threw a
grenade.
“ ‘l’d like to be askin’ ye, gintlemin,’ he said,
with a twinkle in his blue eyes, ‘is the company
prisint to be sthrictly neuthral, or is it permissible
to take sides?’
“His bishop, the good Dr. Polding, looked won-
deringly at the parish priest of Campbelltown. ‘My
dear Father Therry—pray, what do you mean? I
am not aware of anything in dispute likely to cause
a division amongst the company present.’
“ ‘Faith thin, your Grace, all of the people down
by the ringside, without exception, are of one party
or the other. ’Tis Sterling or Currency that’s got
’em strong. All I’d like to know is, are we, as the
Baron’s guests, expected to presarve a sthtrict
neuthrality? For me own part, I’d like to back me
fancy—and I’m Irish mesilf. But I just wanted -to
know, would th’ like o’ that be in ordher? That’s
all, y’r Grace.’
“We looked at one another with something of
consternation. Father Therry had certainly raised
a point. The Governor whispered to me tor a
moment, and then rose in his place.
“ ‘Gentlemen,’ he said, ‘I have the authority of
our genial host, whom I am proud to regard as an
old comrade-in-arms, to say that Pampeluna knows
nothing of the dispute referred to by Father Therry.
We are here to witness a display of the noble art of
self-defence, and must remain unconcerned as to
whether the contestants be either British- or colonial-
born. We must set an example to the rest of the
people gathered to witness it. Let us bear in mind
that, above all things, is it desirable that the peace
be kept. Time is getting on, and perhaps we had
better return to the ringside. Remember, gentlemen,
’tis the season of peace and goodwill ’twixt man
and man.’
4 4 f —j IS Excellency led the way on
5 1 to the verandah, whence the
arena was visible. As I stepped into
view of the house paddock, I caught
my breath and gasped in amazement
and consternation. The Governor
seemed almost to reel.
“A fervent riot appeared to be in
progress all over the little flat on
which the ring had been staked out.
A heaving grey splash of canvas on
the green turf, the big marquee was
collapsed on the ground, and beneath it
several individual combats seemed to be
taking place, whilst three or four persons
were running about over it kicking indis-
criminately any skull that momentarily
took shape beneath the fabric. The cries
of the combatants ascended to the smil-
ing heavens, and blended in a confused
din of battle that filled the afternoon with
indescribable uproar.
“From where we looked on, appalled
and mortified, every single individual in
the mob, women as well as men, seemed
to be participating in strenuous strife. It
was a terrible situation ; but I did not lose
that presence of mind which has ever been
my reliance in emergency. I leapt to the
edge of the verandah and faced my guests.
“ ‘Gentlemen,’ I cried, ‘let us be calm. I would
beg some of you to accompany me to the ringside
and seek.to restore order. Your Excellency and your
Honors’ —I addressed myself to the more exalted
personages present—‘please to remain here, and you
also, your Grace, and Mr. Marsden and Father
Therry. You must take no part in this brawl —’tis
not fitting. But I trust that the rest of you will come
with me. There is not a moment to be lost!’
il l LED the way down the steps and through the
* garden, and a compact body of about a score of
my guests came after me. We ran down the hillside
and were presently absorbed in the whirling mael-
strom of combat that surged and eddied about the
ring.
“I have been in battle, but never before in such
an affray as this. On my right hand came charging
that fiery and energetic young Irishman, Father John
Joseph Therry. The light of battle was in his eye,
and through all that vociferous turmoil I never lost
sight of his hatless red head.
“I shall not easily forget the next half-hour.
There were none present who were not fighting, save
only a few whose potations had overcome them, and
they lay sprawled beneath the she-oaks in the creek,
too drunk to take part in the universal hostilities
and quite unconscious of what they were missing.


“Within the ring itself six strong men waged
valiant warfare in couples. Patrick Driscoll fought
with Peter Jones a roundless contest wherein were
employed none of the rules of the ring and little of
chivalry. They clinched and wrestled, gnashed at
each other’s faces with savage, gleaming teeth, used
their feet as well as their fists, and seemed to be
actuated with cannibalistic fury. Their seconds were
similarly engaged, and the referee fought with the
timekeeper. All about them, outside the ropes, the
spectators danced and yelled, smote one another
upon the nose, in the belly—anywhere. It was a
frenzy of pandemonium.
“For a few moments I could only stand and
gaze with amazement upon this incredible scene,
resourceless and impotent. How to check it I did not
know, and the noise and confusion had me com-
pletely bewildered. But I was soon brought to my-
self. A little storekeeper at Parramatta, a Jew named
Jacobstein, came dancing up to me with squared fists
yelling abuse.
‘“Ye big German monstrosity!’ he shouted. ‘To
hell with ye! Put ’em up, damn ye ; put up y’r
dooks like a man and I’ll teach ye!’
“So astonished was I at his behavior that I could
only stand and glare at him, speechless and innocu-
ous. My face was almost out of his reach —he was
about five-feet-three in height, whilst my six-feet-
two had long earned for me the sobriquet of ‘the
Big Baron’ —yet he contrived to plant a stinging blow
in the middle of my countenance, so that’ my nose
gushed blood and I became infuriated by the pain
and the rankling insult. What had I done to deserve
this indignity? I rushed upon him, grasped him about
the middle and heaved him over my shoulder on
to the turf.
“‘Ah, ye —— Paddy!’ cried big John Greville,
the keeper of the toll bar on the Dog Trap-road, as
he smote me in the belly with a huge fist that drove
like a mule’s kick. I smacked him on the side of
the head with my open hand and sent him reeling
up against the ropes of the ring. At the same moment
I saw Father Therry, a red wild cat, leap over the
barrier and hurl himself upon the shoulders of the
big Pat Driscoll, flinging sinewy arms about the
champion’s neck, and by the very force of his impact
bearing him to the ground.
“That was my cue and inspiration. I vaulted
the ropes and attacked Peter Jones, who, not seeing
me coming, also went down. . Mr. William Went-
worth stood close to me, bellowing ‘Stop this damn’
nonsense! Stop it now!’
“But nothing could stop them. With cursings
and profanities they howled and they fought like
demons, inflamed with rum, bellicosity and racial
fervor. Never was there such a hullabaloo in Aus-
tralia before, of that I am convinced. And the sun
smiled down out of a hot and cloudless sky on to
this devilish discord as if well pleased with such an
exhibition of human foolishness.
“It was a frenzy of pandemonium”
“I bestrode the prostrate form of Peter Jones,
holding him helpless beneath my seventeen stone of
Teutonic ponderosity as I grasped his wrists in my
hands, whilst close beside me, on his knees, Father
Therry hurled priestly commination into the sweat-
ing face of big Paddy Driscoll. Now and again I
caught his words.
“ ‘Ye big gossoon! ’ he shrieked. ‘Up with ye
now, and help me to resthore order, or ’twill be th’
warse for ye, ye great lump o’ sinful pride!’
“ ‘Jones,’ I cried, again taking my cue from the
resolute little priest, ‘l’ll pay you ten pounds if you’ll
get up and help me drive this mob away.’
“ ‘Right you are, Baron,’ he grunted. ‘Let me
up and I’ll shift ’em.’
“CTO, assisted manfully and effectively by the
champions, did Father Therry and I set about
driving the frenzied and drunken crowd off the little
flat in the hollow and up the hillside. Others of my
guests came to our assistance, and gradually we urged
them up the hill, though some, drunk or stricken
down in the affray, lay about on the grass uncon-
scious.
“In an hour’s time we had the last of them
through the gates of Pampeluna and out into the
main road that descends to Parramatta. All the way
down into the valley they continued to fight in
groups, and a few days afterwards the Chief Con-
stable of the town told me that he’d seen more
bandages, black eyes and broken noses between
Christmas and the New Year than he thought it
possible to exist in a Christian community. My own
nose was sore and swollen for days, and Father
Therry was possessed of a purple-and-green eye-
socket of which, I fancy, he was somewhat vain.
“ ‘Driscoll did it,’ he said, ‘but I’ll absolve him
of blame. Sure, ’twas the spirit of Boxing Day got
a holt of him, an’ he couldn’t tell an Irishman and
a friend from a Currency Lad.’
“Wearily we went back to the house, where we
were received with acclamation by his Excellency
and the others.
“ ‘Baron,’ laughed Sir Richard as he shook me
heartily by the hand on taking his departure, ‘your
Boxing Day has been a most eminent success. I con-
gratulate you most heartily.’
“ ‘Yes,’ said the Bishop, that fine gentleman John
Bede Polding, ‘you have certainly demonstrated to
us, my dear Baron von Big, that the Australian
people, both Sterling and Currency, are eminently
fitted to make the most of such a sportive occasion.’ ”
Brief Drama :—
OBLIQUE
by Hilary Lofting
FONG SEE looked abstractedly at Triangle-
street. Through the ’Loo dusk he saw a grey
tomb on the boundary of the Forbidden City,
saw the Temple of Heaven watching over this
tomb by Peiping.
Peace of evening, the day’s work done. In the
sweet, heavy reek of opium Fong See’s long yellow
hands slept, folded, on his knee. It was done. Now
the tomb could be seen again.
“O holy ones,” he whispered, “turn me your
faces again from Paradise. These that blackened me
have vanished as yesterday’s dust, and I am clean.
They are dead, in shame. It is done.”
He stood up, kotowed deeply across the ■ grey
courtyard by the Forbidden City, and sat down at
peace in the ’Loo.
Slantwise he saw the shabby street, the worn,
broken houses hiding in the gathering shadows ; slant-
wise his memory leapt to the grey, wide courtyard.
Both were nothing; he was once more an honorable
exile. Above the lamp he pushed another pellet
into the little pipe-bowl, sat a long moment in
thought. He put the pipe down; the tomb came
closer to him over the seas, so that his low voice was
close against its door.
“Holy ones, forgive me that the day was long.
You know that she is gone, that he too is gone, in
death and shame. I am your son again. What is
one long day to you in your wealth of yesterdays?”
High, thin voices came up from the laundry
below and died away into silence; dusk thickened
to heavier shadows on the balcony and in the reck-
ing room ; Night, padding softly into the ’Loo, found
Fong See still whispering at the closed door of this
tomb.
MARIO, Three-Cornered Mario, stared implacably
at Clifford Mimbles.
“A fake, a frame, Cliff,” he repeated, shrugging
his narrow cripple’s shoulders. “I know. In my
bones I know. Toni make him a fool over this piece;
tha’s true. But he didn’ bump her off. Nor himself.
I know.”
“So you say, Mario.” Cliff shifted uneasily
under Mario’s urgent stare. All out, the poor little
coot was, fit to tear the ’Loo up by the roots. “The
Court said he bumped ’er off, and himself”
“The Court!” Mario’s savage scorn burned the
Court into nothing. “I know,” he repeated, the heavy
monosyllable a tolling bell. “Listen!” Mario kicked
his crutch away and crowded clumsily over the table.
“You know Toni. He love life—quick, swift on
his feet, running, full, burning with life. Would he
throw it away for any piece?”
The spate of tumbling words ceased abruptly. For
the life of him Cliff couldn’t dodge Mario’s insistent
eyes.
“He was as I could have been ... I could
follow him in my mind all the day and night, be
with him though my bones are twisted. He was
myself. And I know what he would do and not do,”
Cliff hated this—like staring into a furnace to
see how long you could stand it before you went
blind or went out to it. “Who did bump ’em off,
then?” he asked.
“The pong!”
“But he was in Newcastle —a cast-iron alibi.
Four witnesses and”
“The pong,” Mario insisted implacably. “1
know. As for Newcastle, listen, Cliff” —he crowded
further over the little table.
ALLENBURY, S.M., walking home up the long
Mosman street, decided for the thousandth time
that the only way to be a coroner and remain sane was
to forget all verdicts as the Court rose. That Chinese
to-day—an extraordinarily oblique chap, even for a
Chinese. His evidence sidled into speech hall-marked
with falsehood and yet buttressed with inviolate truth.
And Antonio Vasari was —had been —a bad lot:
Woolloomooloo underworld, opium-running, five pre-
vious convictions and wanted on two serious counts.
A hysterical Italian killer: murder and suicide, the
crime passionel was his natural finish.
Still, that haunting obliquity in Fong See, the
haunting doubt . . . Prejudice! denied by the weight
of evidence. His alibi was inviolate.
Prejudice—he pushed open the gate —prejudice,
the last judicial sin . . . The man was free to marry
a white woman. If she, sick of the degrading tedium,
took a dramatic Italian killer for lover, violence was
her reward, death by violence at her lover’s hand
almost the foregone solution. He hung up his hat. How
quiet the house after the court ... If he resigned
next term, and retired
MARIO’S voice was low and haunted
now. “Far away in Napoli Toni
and myself, we are boys. I love him.
His mind is jus’ the same as mine, you
see, Cliff” —the fury in Three-Cornered’s
eyes was banked down to wild sorrow.
“I tell you because you un’erstand —you
know prison yourself, you know Toni
an’ me. Toni is me: I am Toni. If
Toni is dead, then I am dead.” He
retrieved his crutches, fumbled himself
upright, stared, haggard and worn but
on fire with a deep,
potent urgency, at Cliff.
“Already dead,” he added
softly, stumping his way
from the room.
Night, suffocating in
Triangle-street, heard the
rubber-tips of his crutches
touch the pavement in
their long stride. At Fong
See’s door the sound
ceased. A shadow, mis-
shapen, twisted, fumbled
through blinding pain up
to the post to join the
other shadows on the
balcony. A pause to
catch the breath . . .
The knife plunged
upwards under the rib-
bone, entered Fong See’s
heart obliquely. The
twisted shadow fumbled
down the post; the long
rubber - tipped stride
swung triumphantly up
Triangle-street.


A COMEDY OF THEATRICALS:—
STRANDED
BY HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
THE David Weedon Comedy Company had been
bumping on the rocks for weeks and had got
off by miracle. A new recruit to the show (and
the business) I had been surprised when, on its
due date, I received my first salary.
David Weedon, who stood by in his fatherly
fashion while the manager, Mick Mahon, paid out,
patted my shoulder.
“My boy, in the fu-ture we are going to put you
on the bills as treas-urer,” he said. “Mister Mahon
will explain what you have to do. It will mean that
your sal-ary will be, from now on, on a weekly basis
instead of for seven playing nights. God bless you,
my boy!”
“I’m sorry business has not been better, Mr.
Weedon,” I said.
“It is unfor-tunate for the people who have
stayed away, owing to the cold weath-er, and missed
a great the-atrical treat,” said Weedon, as if that was
his only worry. “Mat-ters must im-prove, however.
At Boolaroo we will have a good sea-son.”
“Yes; Boolaroo will be good,” said Mahon,
looking up.
The position of treasurer was not as good as
it sounded. The duties consisted mainly of collecting
the money from the ticket offices and handing it
over to Mahon, or going into the box myself in the
smaller towns —my own stage appearances did not
occur until some time after the opening.
There was no more salary except in dribs and
drabs of advances, and, of course, payment of hotel
expenses; and I began to be sorry for myself for
having left Sydney.
Still there was always Boolaroo.
A T Boolaroo it rained. The company got into its
make-up and moved restlessly about the stage,
taking it in turns to spy from the peephole in the
proscenium upon a house very slowly becoming a
little less empty, and listening gloomily to the pelt
of rain on the iron roof.
Mahon and I probably had a worse time waiting
in “the front.” Most of the people who came through
the rain presented cards or rain-soaked scraps of
paper—complimentaries. When, for the seventh
time, Mahon sent me round to the stage with a
message about the unfinancial state of the house, old
Weedon took a final peep at the audience.
“It is all right, la-dies and gentle-men,” he said.
“We play! And to-night you need have no fear of
the aud-ience. We outnum-ber them!”
It was impossible not to like old Weedon ; at
the back of his ponderosity he had a sense of humor.
HrHE tragedy came at Hillburg. My first intimation
1 came when Fitzjames, the juvenile, woke me up
with a shake of the shoulders.
“Get up quickly, old chap, and come down to
breakfast,” he said.
“The train doesn’t leave” I began.
“We’re stranded,” said Fitz. “Mahon’s done a
bunk. You’d better come down and have breakfast
before the hotel people hear about it.”
It was a reasonable precaution. The other mem-
bers of the company were already down, and it had
not struck the hotel people yet that it was extra-
ordinary that theatricals, with no rush to catch a
train, should be among the early breakfasters.
My place was beside Fay Norton, who smiled
wanly. Up to that moment the stranding of the
company had not struck me as tragical. I had in
my pocket enough for my fare to Sydney, and I
would have been leaving in any case if salary was
not forthcoming. But poor little Fay Norton
“I say, how are you fixed, Fay?” I asked. “Got
any money? Can you manage to get to Sydney?”
“I’ve got two shillings,” she laughed. “I always
send my money to my mother —she’s an invalid, you
know. I couldn’t ask her for any money.”
Then I knew it was tragedy.
I couldn’t go off to Sydney and
leave her to get back as best she
might.
“I can fix your fare,” I said
impulsively.
“How about you?”
“I’ll be all right,” I said off-
handedly.
“But we may get through
somehow,” said Fay hopefully.
“I’ve been stranded before, and
we got out of it some way. Look
out, here’s the waitress.”
A little later Weedon appeared, looked round
the dining-room and signalled me.
“A tragic bus-iness, my boy,” he said. “Tragic!
You know what has happened? With all these po-or
people on our hands”
“Our hands, Mr. Weedon?”
“As treas-urer of this com-pany, you”
“But you know very well, Mr. Weedon’ 1
“I know, my boy—l know!” said Weedon
placatingly. “You have no res-pons-ibility. All I
want is your co-op-eration. We will, first of all, see
this publican.”
WE saw the publican. When the news was broken
to him that Mahon had disappeared (“with —
ah—all the funds,” as Weedon put it) he was hostile.
“Can you blame me, Mr. Bunghole?” demanded
Weedon in a voice full of emotion. “In the course
of a long, hon-or-able stage car-eer, I have wronged
no man. I have been be-trayed. It would be sim-ple
for me, now, to wash my hands of every-thing—to
depart and leave the com-pany. But that is some-
thing that I could not do. The mem-bers of my
com-pany are like my child-ren ; I could not des-ert
them. I must stand by, and see what can be done.”
“What do you propose doing?”
“I am no bus-inessman, Mr. Bunghole ; I am an
act-or,” said Weedon. “Mr. Harding here is our
treas-urer.”
Bunghole turned a sharp eye on me. “Oh,
you’re the treasurer?”
“I”
“Mr. Harding is as unfor-tun-ate as
the rest of us. The mon-ey has gone with
the man-ager; no res-ponsibility can rest
with Mr. Harding. But if anything can
be done he will be in a pos-ition to look
af-ter the bus-iness for us. I have heard
of the great heart of the peo-ple of Hill-
burg, Mr. Bunghole ; I am sure it will not
fail, in view of the plight of these unfor-
tun-ate people I can-not desert.
You will par-don me, Mr. Bung-
hole, if the tears stand in my eyes ;
these people look to me, per-haps,
and I must do my best for them.
Perhaps a ben-e-fit might be
ar-ranged, with the sup-port of
the noble-hearted people of Hill-
burg.”
His look implied my cue.
“You see, Mr. Bunghole,” I
said, “something has to be done
for these people or they’ll be left
stranded in the town. It’s ino*
fault of ours that our manager
should have left us in this hole.
A benefit can easily be arranged
which, if you are prepared to
wait for your money, would en-
able us to settle with you.”
“Have a drink,” said Bung-
hole. It was the first sign of his
relenting. “You’d better see the
Mayor. I’ll ring him up,” he
said presently.
WE saw the Mayor. My
respect for David Weedon
as an actor grew. In this and
subsequent interviews his voice
was pregnant with emotion as he
talked of the unfortunate lot of
the stranded people he regarded
as his children. As he presented
it, his interest was entirely altru-
istic ; he might have departed,
leaving it to others to solve the
problem.
“I am no businessman,
Mr. Mayor—l am an
actor. My friend here
can talk about the busi-
ness side. But it is in the
in-ter-est of this town that
the pro-blem of those
unfor-tun-ate people should
be solved. Mr. Bunghole,
the pubdican, sug-gested a
ben-e-fit. If the coun-cil
would give the hall
free”
“That wouldn’t be pos-
sible,” said the Mayor.
“But I could undertake that the council, when the
matter is put to them, would agree to a pound a
night.”
“As long as that doesn’t have to be paid till the
money comes in,” I said.
“I’ll fix that. If you like I’ll go with you to the
newspaper office, and I’ll take you to see Mr. Triggs.
He’ll probably take twenty or thirty tickets.”
Mr. Triggs took forty. He also suggested that
there should be five-shilling tickets entitling the
holders to stay to a dance after the performance
on the second night. His suggestion was two nights.
All Hillburg knew within a few hours that the
David Weedon Theatrical Company had been
stranded. All Hillburg was sympathetic ; perhaps it
had taken note of old David Weedon’s frequent
references to the great heart of Hillburg and wanted
to justify them.
WE left Hillburg full of joy and money, although
Weedon, in spite of being no man of business,
had taken possession of that. At Hilton Junction
there was a surprise. Mick Mahon, jaunty as ever,
was there to meet us.
I had always liked Mick Mahon; his cold-blooded
betrayal had been unbelievable in such a man as he
was ; but it seemed like effrontery for him to re-
appear like this. Everybody else, however, had a
warm greeting for him.
As the train moved on I found myself in a
separate compartment with Weedon and Mahon,
helping to check the count of notes and money.
“There’s twenty-four, three and sixpence I took
away from the takings at Hillburg, besides the tenner
I left you for emergencies, too,” said Mahon. “By
the way, I’ve got Blaggville and four other towns
billed like a circus. We ought to do well there.”
“We’ll have a treasury when we get to Blagg-
ville,” said Weedon. “The people’ll be glad to see
the ghost walking.”
“Too right! The people have to be paid, Dave,”
said Mahon cheerfully. Having put away the money,
“Can you blame me, Mr. Bunghole?”


he opened out a railway map and pointed to a spot
he had marked in red pencil.
“The next place we strand at is Bogravale,” he
said. “It’s a good stunt, that!”
Neat Study of Childhood: —
GREAT-GRANDMOTHER’S
BED
by Margaret Trist
THE thing that Susie had dreaded for weeks had
come. She was alone in a big bed in a dark
room, and Mother and Father were far away. At
least, they were in the kitchen, and a stretch of
unlighted verandah separated her from them; and
when you’re only four and a bit a stretch of un-
lighted verandah is a very great distance. The sound
of their voices came to her, but so low and indis-
tinctly that they did not comfort, but blended with
the vaguely-heard, terrifying murmurs of the night.
Susie lay very still and hot and small under the
blankets, and wondered whether it could really be
the thumping of her own heart that shook the bed
so. Funny ihat she couldn’t think of nice things
here, as she had been able to do in her cot. All
her little life her cot had stood in the corner of her
parents’ room, and the darkness there had been
friendly and familiar. It had been nice to lie awake
and think of fairies ; of bluebells down the reserve ;
of visits to town ; of imaginary playmates.
But those things were very far away from this
horrible big bed. which seemed to be swallowing
her in a maze of cold linen sheets and soft, stifling
blankets. It had been Great-grandmother’s bed.
Susie could remember Great-grandmother dimly, a
frail, old, white-haired woman who had ruled the
household imperiously from the bed.
It was always Great-grandmother you noticed ;
not the bed. If anyone came in now it would be the
bed they noticed, not Susie. If anyone came in
now Susie began to perspire. Say someone
came and, not seeing her, got into bed and squashed
her.
“Ting! Ting! Ting! Ting!” the clock in the
sitting-room pealed nine, in silver lilting chimes.
Then “Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom!” the grand-
father clock crashed the hour in the dining-room.
And “Clack! Clack! Clack! Clack!” the old
clock in the kitchen that had seen service in a sailing-
ship sounded too.
The echoes died away. Susie did not know what
the time was. She couldn’t count further than “two,
seving, five, eleving” yet.
The room didn’t seem to be so dark now, though
the far high corners were dark with shadows. Susie
wasn’t looking
at them, but
she knew they
were there.
Just be-
fore the clock
struck again,
she heard her
mother and
father go
round the ver-
andah to their
bedroom.
“N e a rly
t e n,” her
father said.
“It’s good be-
ing able to
talk without
waking the
kid.”
Tears rose
in Susie’s
eyes. For
years after-
wards it hurt that Father had been glad she
wasn’t there. She couldn’t cry very much, it made
queer noises.
THE hours went slowly by. Susie lay quietly wait-
-1 ing for the light. She didn’t know how long it
would be, but when it came she would go to her
parents and explain to them they would have to put
her cot up again.
A long, long time Susie waited, sometimes
quivering with fear, sometimes lying there in a de-
tached way, watching the stars. And then, some-
where out beyond the orange-trees, came a pink color-
ing, the same as the petticoat Susie wore under her
new voile dress. She was so absorbed watching it
she didn’t notice how blue the sky was getting, until
she saw the greenness of the orange-trees against it.
“It’s almost day,” thought Susie, and wondered
if the floor would be cold when she put her little
bare feet Upon it. She brought her arms from under-
neath the blankets, and sighed contentedly at the
touch of the cool air on them. She could see the
washstand now, and a picture of a farm that was
a long way off in a place called England. Soon she
would get up. She turned on her side to watch
through the open doorway, and snuggled the blankets
about her. “When the sun gets up” murmured
Susie drowsily, and fell asleep as in the tall gum-
trees on the reserve the magpies began their wild,
glad morning sound.
AT eight o’clock breakfast Mother said, “Susie’s
slept the clock round. That’s what comes of
having a room to herself, and not being disturbed.”
Father reflectively sipped tea from his teaspoon
to see if it was sweet enough. “Modern kids are
different from what we were,” he said. “1 remember
the first time I was put to bed by myself. I was so
scared I didn’t sleep a wink.”
"Crime Doesn't Pay": —
THE CRIME
BY
"H"
I T is true,” he was saying, “that
I crime doesn’t pay. Sooner or
I later the cleverest criminal is
brought to book. These records”
—he waved the mug towards a sheaf of “True Crimes”
magazines lying on the bar —“are full of men who
thought they could defeat society, only to be brought
to judgment by some little oversight, some detail
forgotten in spite of all their careful planning. There
was the case of the Crimson Cadaver in the Culvert
in the November issue. There was Oh, 1
could mention dozens. No, you can’t get away
with it.”
“I don’t suppose,” I ventured, “that there has
ever been a perfect crime.”
“I’m afraid not,” he agreed sadly. “They always
overlook some little trivial thing; no matter how
much they concentrate on their work there’s sure to
be something they’ve forgotten. There was one
crime”
He was struggling with an inner conflict, and I
waited in polite hopefulness while he made up his
mind. At last, with a fortifying swallow of beer
and a suspicious glance which I discreetly ignored,
he told me:
“1 killed a man once ... It was his money. I
knew that he carried big sums of money about him,
and I studied the old man’s movements exhaustively.
I was determined to take my time until I was per-
fectly satisfied as to my plans. So I watched the
old man’s movements for three whole months.
“When at length I was satisfied that I had
thought of everything, 1 took a month’s holiday
before the actual deed. I wanted to revise from
the perspective gained by a complete obliteration
of all my scheming, and find any weak points 1
might have overlooked in the earnestness of pre-
paration. Thus I was quite fresh as, coldly calcu-
lating, and mechanically impervious to emotion, I
hid myself in the old man’s office and waited
for him.
i ‘ L_J E was late, but I had allowed three and a
* * half minutes for that. Although I was positive
I could not be seen I was disguised as a dusky
Asiatic, with false gold teeth, an acquired stoop which
made me a foot shorter, and smoked glasses. As the
old man entered I shot him in a direct line with the
clock, using a silenced revolver of my own invention,
and, having put the clock on a half-hour, I broke
the dial. He would not be discovered for some time,
and at the time on the broken clock-face I would be
with a well-known citizen of the town, discussing the
Melbourne Cup.
I was wearing thin rubber gloves against finger-
prints, and, walking on my heels to avoid making
complete footmarks on the linoleum, I took a small,
soft hand broom out of my pocket and swept the
floor sedulously clean of any incriminating threads
of clothing, cigarette ash or suchlike. Then I left
the room unobserved.
“I kept the alibi; then burnt the clothing I had
worn, and, after melting the gun in a crucible in my
room, I threw it, and crucible, and the false gold
teeth I had worn over the exact centre of the Harbor
Bridge.
“I had everything arranged. I was to grow a
moustache and take a job as a wireless operator on
a boat to Burma. Everything had gone according
to schedule. There was nothing to connect me with
the murder, nothing at all. I had laid my plans too
carefully, and had neglected not one detail. Then
suddenly I remembered something”. . .
| WATCHED his face sympathetically. He was
' struggling with an overwhelmingly bitter recollec-
tion ; I felt that my eagerness to hear the end of his
narrative was a profane and sacrilegious curiosity in
the face of his obvious anguish. I was respectfully
silent.
He overcame himself with an effort. Then, “I
I had forgotten to take the old man’s money”. . .
We stood silent. Gratefully he sank the schooner
I had delicately pushed in front of him. Then,
rearranging his “True Crimes” under his arm, he
shook my hand again and was gone.


“E qual to
a fine
liqueur ”
m
&
/>- •
a
«a
80%
■
:v>
i
i
fc2%
%
M
7sr«
w
1
r^
I
i
I
44
can
tell
White Horse
Who could mistake this
delicate fragrance, or the
heartening glow with never
a trace of fire! Who could
doubt the name of this
whisky the equal of a fine
liqueur!”
GIFT CARTON
For Christmas and New
Year, White Horse is
packed in attractive cartons
at no extra cost.
K


20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
EVERLASTING WATCH
Unbreakable —— Shockproof
Non-magnetic and Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Stand a Knock or Fall.
POST
FREE
12
11
10
2
LEVE
9
3
8
4
7
5
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Dong, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.L. Wonder Watches, so
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Everlasting Watch as the acme
of Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
R.D.E. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1925 and
are still supreme.
Recommended for Farmers, Tram, Rail,
Police and Businessmen.
The R.D.L. LEVER is everlasting because it is
built of standardised interchangeable parts. As
one part wears, so it can be replaced at a very
low cost, making the life of the wateh indefinite,
everlasting. It is also shockproof (virtually
unbreakable), having special shock absorbing
features introduced into the expert construction
of the movement.
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket Size, Luminous Dial 20/-
Lady’s Service Wristlet Size 20/-
Gent.’s Large Service Wristlet .... 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small round
nickel case), Luminous 25/-
Gent.’ s Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Luminous .. 30/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (9ct. gold-
filled cushion case), Luminous .. 45/-
Lady’s Gold-filled and Solid Gold
Dress Wristlets (jewelled)—
45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Obtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. R. Dixon Long, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
366 V Rmirke St., Melb., C.l, Vic.
most bitter utterances about others there
was enough truth to make them bite.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
A MAN IN HIDING
Though the title of the novel Shining
Scabbard, by R. C. Hutchinson (Cassell;
Dymock’s, 7s. 6d.), offers a broad hint,
so skilfully does its general tone reflect
the chief character’s state of mind that
it is difficult to tell, until life offers him
another chance, whether Colonel Eugene
Severin really ran from the enemy during
one of the battles of the Franco-Prussian
war or whether at the court-martial and
subsequent trial by civil tribunal he was
the victim of a miscarriage of justice.
The book is a sympathetic, if faintly
ironic, study of a man whose life has
been spent in the shadow of disgrace.
The point of attack—in Severin’s old
age—is well chosen by the author. It
enables him to dispense with a detailed
account of the misfortune and the tragic
years that followed—to show them, not
in themselves, but in their effects. Well
chosen, too, is the actual beginning of
the story. A change of military station
obliges Pierre, Severin’s son, an officer
in the French army in northern Africa,
to send Renee, his colonial-born wife,
and their two young children to his
parents in France. The brief association
with these normal persons emphasises for
the reader the unnatural atmosphere of
the home into which they go. Its occu-
pants, besides the three servants, whose
lives are involved along with the rest in
the Severin tragedy, are Therese, who
was obliged to abandon a successful
stage career because of her brother’s
disgrace, Severin’s daughter Marianne, a
middle-aged spinster, soured and more
than half inclined to doubt her father’s
honor, his mother, Mme. Nadya, an
eccentric character who belittles the
alleged importance of the matter, and
Madaleine, his wife, who, no doubt be-
cause unbelief would make life impos-
sible for her, supports him to the end.
Actually she gives her life for him, a
day at a time. These people are em-
bittered toward one another and at the
same time held together by the tragedy
that has affected their lives. Renee and
the children are made to feel that their
presence in the house is unfortunate.
Visitors to the Severins are Tischer,
medical adviser to the household, Abbe
Vignaud, Madame Severin’s religious
adviser, and Lecours, the lawyer who
throughout the years has had the
Colonel’s appeal in preparation.
Hutchinson can suggest a good deal
in a few words. His description of old
Lecours’s arrival during an illness of
Severin indicates his style throughout:
He mounted the stairs very slowly,
bringing both feet on to one step before
essaying the next, pausing at each as if
to examine upon some register the amount
of energy he had expended. A short, corpu-
lent man, with feet so small, in pointed,
shiny boots, that it seemed a miracle of
balance he could stand at all. His tiny
eyes were half-covered by the heavy lids,
but the pupils were far from sleepy; they
turned, never with idle curiosity, but
seriously, observing and appraising; not
sharply, but with shrewd complacence.
Barbier, the servant, led the way, limping
half a dozen steps ahead; and there was in
their advance a solemnity which suggested
rehearsal.
That a Severin could play a coward’s
part is incredible. It is on the prepara-
tion of his appeal that the Colonel’s life
has fed. There have been innumerable
delays— necessary witnesses have scat-
tered to the ends of the earth—but the
work goes on, although suspicion in-
creases that each delay is, if the depths
of consciousness were uncovered, in the
nature of a reprieve to the man involved.
His refuge from himself is in the prepa-
ration of his case. He visits the old
battlefield for the purpose of taking pre-
cise measurements, and has in his study
a map over which he pores, making
meticulous calculations and memoranda.
The irony of it is that the affair has
been forgotten by the world, as Severin
learns when, during rumors of war, he
visits the French War Office to offer him-
self in even the humblest capacity. Un-
known to him, his record is examined
while he waits. He is brushed aside, but
with an outward show of courtesy that
enables him to persuade himself that he
has received a promise that if his services
are required he will receive a telegram.
That is in the summer of 1914. During
the German advance in August the
Severin family, notwithstanding a
general exodus, remain in Baulon await-
ing the arrival of “the Colonel’s tele-
gram.” The situation on which the book
is built is resolved when German shells
are falling thickly in the town. By this
time Pierre has arrived. Renee, unable
to support the unintended cruelties in-
flicted on her by his people, has written
him a pitiful letter. He has deserted
and made his way to her through Spain.
Pierre’s story is a counter movement to
the larger theme.
In Shining Scabbard R. C. Hutchin-
son has produced a well imagined and
exceptionally well written book. Its one
fault is the child of its most noticeable
virtue —it is just a little too well managed
in that certain things are obviously done
for effect. A case in point is Severin’s
jack-in-the-box introduction to the
reader on the occasion of Renee’s first
meeting with him.
* * * $
HAZARDS OF THE SEA
The first story in One Monsoon Night,
by “Shalimar” (Blackwood, 7s. 6d.),
though not uninteresting, is the weakest
in a book that, for the rest, is remarkably
good. It concerns a pilot who took a
steamer up river to her berth through
a night of Indian monsoonal storm at
great risk on account of the narrowness
of the channel between submerged mud-
banks. There was a white woman
aboard who was anxious to reach the
bedside of her husband, whom she be-
lieved to be dying. She is met by him,
in perfect health, on the vessel’s arrival
at the wharf. It is an attempt at irony
that fails to come off after a very excit-
ing account of the journey, because it is
not clear that her wishes motivated the.
pilot. More likely he was moved by an
implied dare from the captain, a notori-
ous thruster in regard to getting into
port on time regardless of weather con-
ditions. The story—like the others in
the book—probably has a foundation in
fact, but, unlike them, it hasn’t been
given quite the right treatment to justify
it in art. In the other stories the effect
is achieved much more subtly, with an
appearance of being unstudied.
“Shalimar’s” specialty is suspense.
He hasn’t, beyond that, a very wide
range, but in causing a rising feeling of
anxiety as to the outcome of his story
he is a master. His method is artlessly
artful. He begins casually—sometimes
with generalities—and seems to be
merely reminiscing, but before the first
page is turned he has his reader’s atten-
tion snared. He takes the case of a
vessel meeting some danger of the sea —
fire, storm or shipwreck—and describes
it with such imaginative veracity, while
the suspense increases, that it is impos-
sible not to believe he has actually ex-
perienced the thing of which he tells.
One of his best is about a sailing ship
bound from London to Callao with a
cargo of coal. Not long after rounding
the Horn the captain, a pious man, has
a vision in which he sees the ship in
flame from stem to stern, a disaster in
which all hands are lost. To the amaze-
ment of his officers and crew he turns
back and returns to London without
touching port. He is sacked by the irate
owners. The mate is promoted to his
place and the vessel sails again. At about
the spot in the Pacific where the captain
changed his course the coal, which was
loaded in rainy weather, and which has
by now been about eight months in the
hold, takes fire by spontaneous com-
bustion. The ship is duly destroyed, al-
though the crew are saved. For mystery
and mounting suspense the story com-
petes with any thriller ever written, and
yet it owes nothing to sleight of hand.
Everything is in plain sight. Its interest
is intrinsic to the theme, and the writer
depends on nothing more than his ability
to make the reader see and feel.
The stories vary greatly in length.
There is a good one that deals in four or
five pages with a boy who is left alone
in charge of a pilot’s cutter during a
stormy night in the English Channel.
The reader never gets a good look at
him, only a glimpse of him rowing back
through the gathering gloom from the
steamer to the cutter after delivering the
pilot—but it is enough. Others concern
a captain who sank his ship to save her,
two captains who derided each other
and whose account was settled when one
of them lost his ship off the coast of
China with twelve hundred Chinese
aboard. Love has almost no part in
these stories. There are only two women
in the book, the one in the first story
and a Chinese lady whom the captain
kisses before chucking her overboard.
Not everyone enjoys stories of men and
the sea, but anyone who appreciated
Conrad’s Typhoon will like these. They
are in similar vein.
* * * *
TRAGIC PILGRIMAGE
Man sees himself in many images, but
one of the most persistent is that of pil-
grim. Many books from the Odyssey
to Ulysses have been built round this
image ; there is one more in Vagabond
Minstrel, by Thomas Burke (Longmans,
Green ; Preece and Sons ; 7s. 6d.).
It is not so much a novel as an
authentic reconstruction of the life of
the Irish minor poet' Thomas Dermody
from his twelfth birthday, when he was
assistant classical master in his father’s
academy for young gentlemen, to his
death at 29. The book begins with a
journey when the boy, an infant prodigy,
leaves Ennis with two shillings, a crust
of bread and a volume of Aristotle to
walk to Dublin, fame and fortune ; and
ends with a journey when the poet,
penniless and hopeless, wanders out of
London to die in the countryside. Der-
mody is of the homeless ones who, with
striking gifts, never learn to live. He is
of the same company as Chatterton,
Burns and Shelley. His story in its
general outline is one of the basic and
universal stories of mankind, and Burke
starts with a fund of interest and tradi-
tion to draw upon.
The book begins in a vein of idealism
that is not quite convincing, but as it
progresses the reader realises that this
is a conscious device of the author’s to
work up to a dramatic contrast. It is
almost, you might say, an adaptation of
the pathetic fallacy. The world into
which young Dermody walks so confi-
dently is a bright one. Its atmosphere is
made up of “wood-smoke, violets,
beech-nuts, primroses, earth and sizzling
pork”; men have vices, but they are
amiable ones —they are always kind, even
if eccentric. It is all a little too pat, too
true to type. The child Thomas Der-
mody errs on the side of excessive
quaintness. As he the
flaws in his character make themselves
felt —the world darkens about him. Now
the author takes a firmer hold of his
narrative and it becomes more real and
moving.
It is a record of hope and despair and
the unconscious revenge, that society
takes upon a man who refuses to con-
form. In a colloquy with a man on the
road young Tom betrays the attitude of
mind that is going to ruin him.
“And will ye not be afraid on the road,
what with the dark nights?”
“Why should I be afraid? What of?”
“Bad men. Animals.”
“Why should I be afraid of them?”
“Ye might be attacked.”
“Why should I be afraid of being
attacked?”
“Ye might get badly hurt. Ye might get
taken up by the justices for vagrancy.”
“Why should I be afraid of being hurt?
Or being taken up?”
“They’d clap ye in gaol.”
“Why should I be afraid of being clapped
in gaol?”
To this blank refusal to venerate the
idols of the tribe he added a spendthrift
generosity and a perverse pride.
Dermody comes to grief in a world of
“thick men.” We see him gradually
coarsened and defaced. This is por-
trayed with understanding. It is under-
standing that makes the book notable as
a whole, while in its parts it is often
lacking. Also, Burke, knows how to
sketch in his background of Dublin and
London in the late eighteenth century.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Fiction: Shining Scabbard, R. C.
Hutchinson (Cassell); All That Swagger,
Miles Franklin (The Bulletin) ; One
Monsoon Night, “Shalimar” (Blackwood);
Jungfrau, Dymphna Cusack (The Bul-
letin) ; Europa, Robera Briffault (Robert
Hale); Gunnar’s Daughter, Sigrid Undset
(Cassell). General: Wonders of the
Great Barrier Reef, T. C. Roughley
(Angus and Robertson); The Anatomy
of Frustration, H. G. Wells (Cresset
Press); Sentenced to Adventure, Serge
Zolo (Harrap); Stone Age Bushmen of
To-Day, J. R. B. Love (Blackie).
F. D. D.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
London Pride: Shaw Desmond
(Hutchinson; Bs. 6d.). A 1000-page
novel of life among London’s poor.
Quite good in substance, but marred by
the author’s self-conscious attitude to-
ward his subject, his heavy jocosity, and
his familiarity toward his reader, whom
he addresses as “sapient reader.”
Mother of the Bride: Alice Grant
Rosman (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). A light, pleasant
story of young love with an English
setting by an Australian-born writer
whose popularity is such that she is said
to receive as much as £5OO in advance
royalties. This one is up to standard.
Four Days ’ War: S. Fowler Wright
(Robert Hale; 7s. 6d.). Forecasts a
world war in 1938 and is a warning to
England against unpreparedness. Well
written.
The Third String: T. Stuart Gurr
(Angus and Robertson ; 65.). Love and
adventure in the South Seas, the romance
revolving round Marcia, beautiful but
unsuitable wife of a missionary, and the
devotion she inspires in two other white
men on the island. The local volcano
provides a happy ending at the expense
of the missionary and the unwanted
suitor.
There Is My Heart: Peter Neagoe
(Dent; 7s. 6d.). Story of a Transyl-
vanian lad who sets out for America but
is diverted from his intention by a
woman. As a picture of the peasantry
of Transylvania, good ; but the narrative
fails to grip.
DIARIES . . .
Collins Bros., Sydney, forward their
annual selection of a wide range of
diaries, some of them possibly destined
to hold the bodywork of great books to
be. The range is from tiny chaps to fit
a vest pocket to large table vols., all
holding 1937 calendars and stacks of
information relating thereto. There are
“farmers” diaries, “gentleman’s” diaries,
diaries that are engagement books and
diaries specially suited to business or pro-
fessional men. On the information side,
as well as in get-up, one of the neatest
of the lot is the strongly-bound pocket
diary for men on the land. An extra-
ordinary amount of information has been
packed into it —planting tables, gesta-
tion tables, ready-reckoner tables for
irrigation, yields, weights, prices and the
like; columns for keeping a tab on
breeding, vet. visits, etc. ; shearing and
other rates, Commonwealth trade, re-
turns, and a host of other items of use
and interest.
YOUNGSTERS’ FARE . . .
Adveitures of Carol in Bushland:
Alice Cmcas (E. B. Bayliss, Perth, W.A. ;
3s. 6d.). Carol’s friend Mrs. Magpie
gives her seeds that make you tini-
est of all (and some others to make her
big again) and she goes off in a marvel-
lous toy airship to the wedding of
Princess Natalie and Prince Sturt Pea at
Bushingham Palace.
Further Heroes of Modern Adventure :
T. C. Bridges and H. Hessell Tiltman
(Harrap and Co. ; 7s. 6d.). Another
capital collection of adventurous travel
chapters, ranging over most of the
world ; mostly condensed accounts of
some, of the best travel books of the
last year or so. First-rate schoolboy
reading.


ROYAL
PURPLE
W ■ ■
:. w ."' ■ 7 .
< ; !^^p SP P I r * '■
MBmmmMl
■
■
H
-a
i
, \>J
• ; IH
■■■■ :
S&
m ■
i
■
■
■ i
Vi
■
t <*
-\- J
&
yV
■ !
lp»Bi
jsggg
|Js|£|&!v r^ a «^** ><, *** >o **
‘ • '■••••
55® :
m
wm
. '-V".'. .
LZ$ v<^-'
- t * , r^i
7 . 1 * ... { ■
*- A v ■:
m
» s , '«*&■
* * I ;, V:
t
■ : f -
<x. it J. & - » sy&S&S i'#''
i z
im
■
e«
*?
«*■.. * s i*.
; ' ;
«
I .177. :. t
■ ,t ' : 7 tr.' *v» w *;J
i * « i
ft **4
B
I
: ■
'■ •• •'..••>
m
E
H
m
mJP*W* I
i 1 % i , '4
# v 4 ■>. :; -
ft - I*.. * i fcid
■si
m m
m;(^H
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars .


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2966.
December 16, 1936.
“BESHREW ME, WHAT A POTHER OVER ONE WOMAN!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 'Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia.: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “AH Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
CROWN, CHURCH, CANBERRA.
Edward the Eighth is King-Emperor no longer.
He is still first in the hearts of flappers and editors
of flapper-papers, and no doubt he will remain a
figure of romance as the man who gave up the greatest
of earthly thrones for Luv. But history is not swayed
by sentiment, and its judgment on him will be severe.
History will say that, at the age of 42, in a time of
grave international disquiet, Edward the Eighth aban-
doned his empire and his church, his crown and his
house, because of an infatuation for a married woman
who for the second time had become a party to
an apparently collusive divorce.
It has to be said for the late King that he was
unfortunate in his personal retainers. George the
Fifth had a staff who “put him over” wonderfully well.
The man who wrote his speeches, particularly the
addresses broadcast at Christmas to “my people,”
was almost a genius. But when King Edward reached
the throne he dismissed nearly all his father’s well-
tried servants and surrounded himself with young
men from his own set.
On the new staff there was evidently not one man
capable of dissuading the King from placing himself
in invidious and ridiculous situations. Hence the
yachting jaunt to the Levant, with the not-yet-divorced
Mrs. Simpson as principal guest; and hence the
vulgar photographs of the royal progress that appeared
in American newspapers and were copied in some of
our own prints, though kept out of British journals.
What was the King’s staff doing when Edward and
Mrs. Simpson had their pictures taken on a Dalmatian
beach, looking just like ’Arry and ’Arriet out for the
day at Margate? Why did it let him ride in a coach
through the streets of foreign cities with Mrs. Simpson
as sole passenger? Never since the days of the Prince
Regent, the Worst Gentleman in Europe, has the
monarchy made such a show of itself.
The King’s staff rendered its final disservice to
him when Lord Brownlow, his Lord-in-Waiting—and
Mrs. Simpson’s at the moment —thought he had to
deal with “damaging rumors” concerning the visit
of a London doctor to Mrs. Simpson’s villa at Cannes.
The London doctor, it seems, was really in attend-
ance on Mrs. Simpson’s solicitor, a gentleman in
“poor health” who had travelled by air for the first
time ; but French newspapers jumped to the worst
conclusions, and Lord Brownlow was greatly dis-
tressed. “Emerging from the villa at two o’clock in
the morning, and standing, somewhat dishevelled, in
the doorway,” he said it was too bad altogether;
it really wasn’t done ; the beggahs who wrote such
things were nothing but outsidahs; not a grain of
truth in the report (what?); must be denied imme-
diately, and all that. Dr. Kirkwood a gynaecologist?
Not the foggiest, old fruit, not the foggiest! What
his lordship was trying to say —and what only a
consummate ass would say —was that Dr. Kirkwood
had not come to Cannes to confine Mrs. Simpson.
A few hours before this amazing scene was wit-
nessed, the French Chamber of Deputies “passed a
bill imposing drastic penalties on newspapers for the
publication of false news, imprisonment being the
punishment for maligning foreign potentates.” This
was to some extent a result of the Mrs. Simpson
affair, during which French newspapers behaved
abominably. The American Yellow Press, for its part,
was true to its worst traditions, and some American
authors joined it in demanding that Mrs. Simpson
should be made Queen. This was adding impudence
to injury, for these writers must know that if Mrs.
Simpson conferred her experienced hand on an
American politician instead of the late head of the
House of Windsor, the American politician would
thereby forfeit whatever chance he might have had
of becoming President. No twice-divorced woman
has ever been mistress of the White House. Indeed,
although no legal prohibition exists, the Americans
exclude Catholics and divorcees from their equivalent
of Buckingham Palace just as the British do, and it
is only humbug to pretend that they don’t.
British newspapers and the British Government
were remiss in other ways. On Mr. Baldwin’s own
admission the Government was aware months ago
of the stuff that was appearing in American news-
papers, and also aware that “there was a divorce
case coming on,” and the newspapers must have
shared in this knowledge ; but, in the words of the
blundering Bishop of Bradford, they “gave no posi-
tive signs of such awareness.” Yet a word in season
might have been as effective as were the protests made
a decade or so ago against the Prince of Wales risking
his neck in steeplechase and point-to-point races.
That newspaper campaign was inspired by the
Government of the day. It was so successful that the
spectacle, familiar in those days, of a half-dead heir-
apparent staggering up from the turf and limping
after the animal that had thrown him was seen no
more.
But that was the only occasion on which Edward
ever received any kind of newspaper criticism until
his public career had virtually ended. His great-grand-
mother had plenty of newspaper criticism during her
long reign, and his grandfather and his father were
by no means spared ; but, except when the steeple-
chasing alarmed them, the newspapers larded Edward
with eulogy. Even in the last phase, when he was
letting England down and getting ready to leave
England, the Rothermere Press blithered that he
was “the greatest living Englishman.” This un-
reasoning flattery must have contributed to the state
of mind in which the King contrived to forget that
he was Defender of the Faith, bound “to maintain
and preserve inviolably the settlement of the Church
of England, and the doctrine, worship, discipline and
government thereof as by law established in Eng-
land” and that he was the crowned head of the
French-Canadian provinces and of Malta and “the 26
counties.”
It should be a lasting lesson to controllers
of newspapers that habitual flunkeyism where the
Crown is concerned may be bad for the monarchy
as well as for the country, and that it is sometimes
necessary in the interests of great personages them-
selves that the truth about them should be told, how-
ever much it may hurt.
The sixth George’s reign begins in circumstances
which entitle him to the sympathy and support of all
men of goodwill. There are troublous times ahead
of him, especially as the De Valera Government may
ayail itself of the opportunity which the abdication
gives to refuse him even the shadow of allegiance ;
but he will not have to face storms which, in his
brother’s case, might have rocked the throne. He
is very happily married and has no quarrel with the
Church of England. And he should be under no
illusions as to the position of the Crown in the realm
and Empire.
One of the few satisfactory features of the situa-
tion through which the Empire has passed was the
utter failure of the attempt to set up a Court party.
Mr. Churchill cast himself for the part of leader, and
a rabble of press lords. Fascists and Clydesiders
were ready to fall in behind him ; but the thing was
a complete flop. Mr. Baldwin has testified that this
curious intrigue was in no way countenanced by the
late King, and it will be remembered to his credit,
At the crisis, unprecedented as it was, the repre-
sentatives of the people were not found wanting. The
supremacy of Parliament was asserted victoriously and
with democratic dignity. In London, that is to say—
not in Canberra. There the members who had been
dispersed so that the Government might not be
embarrassed by the return of Mrs. Freer were sud-
denly recalled, only to be informed, on arrival, that
for the time being there was nothing for them to do.
Mr. Beasley was gagged at the instance of Mr. Park-
hill. There’foil owed days of peevish wrangling, during
which Labor members astonished the country by
proclaiming themselves ardent King’s men and insist-
ing that he was being pushed off the throne because
he had sided with the unemployed; and their
well-meaning leader, in sentences peppered with the
verb “must” (there were eight musts in 225 words),
told the King, Mrs. Simpson, all the Governments
and all the Parliaments what they would be permitted
and forbidden to do.
In a dark hour for the United States, President
Andrew Jackson attended a public function and gave
a toast: “The Union: it must be preserved.” A fit
toast for this country and these times would be
“Parliamentary Government: it must be preserved —-
and improved.”
Government Trains and Trams.
It used to be alleged in Westralia by critics of the
Groper regime that construction of the Perth-
Fremantle railway, which dates from 1881, was
opposed, first, because it would put the river pas-
senger boats and barges out of business, and, second,
because the trains would never be able to get between
the trees. Possibly as a compromise between the
ancients and the moderns, a 3ft. 6in. line was laid
down. The perils of tree-navigation have been avoided
for two generations, but a tradition grew up that
Government trains should be slow and uncomfortable.
It has never been departed from.
Except for a spot of soldiering, C. F. J. North,
who has been Mayor of and member for Claremont,
has lived within sight and sound of this Government
railway all his life. In the Assembly recently he said
“The Perth-Fremantle train was as fast 50 years ago
as it is now.” Nobody disputed it, nor did anybody
question the assertion of Mr. Styants, the member
for Kalgoorlie, that “the Perth-Kalgoorlie express
takes longer to do the journey than it did 25 years
ago, and can never be depended upon to arrive on
time.”
“Speaking with 24 years’ experience as cleaner,
fireman and driver,” Mr. Styants pointed out that the
3ft. 6in. gauge is no barrier to fast travelling in other
countries.
In Java, trains running on a 3ft. 6in. track from
Batavia to Sourabaya, which reach an altitude ot
1614 ft, do 512 miles in 12hr. 20min.; average, with 12
stops, 414- miles per hour. The non-stop Welteverden
Limited, from Batavia to Charibou, 1331 miles, takes
171 minutes eastbound and 172 minutes westbound;
average, about 47 m.p.h. Sorrakata to Madioen, 60.8
miles, is done in 77 minutes, averaging 47.4 m.p.h. It is
a 300-ton train, with six cars and a dining-car; the
engine is a two-cylinder simple and a four-cylinder com-
pound. The Cape Town-Johannesburg journey, 956
miles, occupies 30 hours, averaging 32 m.p.h.; the grade
is one in 40. All on 3ft. 6in. tracks.
Why don’t Westralian Government trains, with
comparatively easy grades to traverse, get up compar-
able speeds? “Because,” Mr. Styants says, “we lack
modern locomotives and coaches with correct spring-
ing and properly-kept road-beds; because rails
weighing 601 b. to the yard are not heavy enough for
fast trains ; and because the department continues to
increase the load and keep the pace down. ’ He
added that “there is something radically wrong with
the springing of our railway coaches.” In circum-
stances which are too familiar a long journey is sheer
agony to women and children.
We have the same old hard cushions and straight
backs that were the vogue 25 years ago [i.e., before there
were motor-buses and parlor cars and 200-mile-an-hour
’planes]. On the Perth-Bunbury and other long-distance
routes there are the same types of coaches that were
used when I was a boy. I have seen overcrowding
in second-class compartments on the Kalgoorlie-Perth
express that would not be allowed if horses, bullocks
or sheep were concerned.
But Government ownership is at the root of the
matter. Australian Governments have sunk
£350,000,000 in railways and tramways, and have lost
tons of money on them —with depreciation a joke and
capital “written off” but not provided for, the
admitted losses on the railways for ten years to June
30, 1934, amounted to £52,800,000. And it doesn’t
seem to be in the nature of Governments to keep
abreast of modern transport developments. Certainly
the public convenience is the last thing considered.
It is much the same in Sydney as in Perth. A
Manly alderman, protesting against the seizure of
more bus services by the anti-socialist Government,
said bitterly:
There have been no tramway developments in this
place for 13 years, though the Government owns the
tramways. Private enterprise has had to open up .large
areas with buses. All the Government has done has been
to take the taxes.
And now it is going to take the buses!
Peace in the World?
Last month I saw a smallish, middle-aged man gesti-
culating before a broadcaster in Nuremberg. A
strained voice barked abrupt sentences; it was lack-
ing in the command-note, that curious compelling
inflexion which carries its message through any
language or any personal exterior. Now and then
a vast diapason of approval billowed up from 80,000
listeners. Looking awkward, haggard, ill, that man
was none the less the Leader. He has but to give
the order and Germany will follow —anywhere.
Last week I saw the latest picture of his opposite
number in Italy: also middle-aged, also strained. None
the less the Leader, too ; an order given, and Italy
will follow. If not anywhere, at least far enough to
set the destruction of civilisation well upon its way.
Many thinking people wonder what will happen when
the old King fades out of the picture, and his strong-
willed son, backed and admired by the still-powerful
old families, mounts the steps of the throne.
Between these two Leaders lies the soft cushion
of poverty-stricken Austria, weak and destitute of
all real leadership. Its division is inevitable; with it
further peril to peace must come. Hungary, Poland,
the bloody doings in Spairf, the stirrings of a tortured,
frightened France, the blazing indiscretions of Mr.
Anthony Eden in support of the dangerous anachron-
ism at Geneva to which Australia contributes good
money for no value —all these are brave ingredients
in the hell’s broth on which Western Europe may so
easily sup at any moment.
But, none the less, the betting is against early
war. The controlling factor lies in the air arm. Until one
nation, or group of nations, becomes, or considers that
it has become, entirely and overwhelmingly powerful
in the air, the risks of immediate and terrific retalia-
tion are too great to be taken. Entirely effective means
of defence against air attack come, of course, in the
same category as a potential basis of decision. The
objective of air attack is that of psychological shock
to national morale, effected by catastrophic slaughter
of the civilian population in its everyday surround-
ings, preferably by the most horrible means possible.
As a purely military operation it is of relatively little
value. Before the air force of any European nation
could be put out of action, however sudden and
extensive the attack, the aggressor’s civil population
would be getting a similar dose, or worse.
A nation which neglects to arm on such lines is
an active danger to the collective security. A nation
which provides itself with an overwhelmingly power-
ful air navy actually may keep the world’s peace,
provided that it is neither frightened nor aggressive.
The arming of Great Britain, now being carried out
swiftly, intelligently and on a gigantic scale, is the
best portent of peace existent in the world to-day.
But the Empire family must also equip itself, each
one according to its particular needs.
Australia’s special need is one of swift aggressive
defence against sudden attack. Its eventual fate will
be decided thousands of miles from its shores, as it
was 18 years ago. But, until Australia has in being
an air force of such strength and mobility as will
make surprise attack impossible of success, it will
remain a danger to itself and to the Empire.
London, 3/11/ ’36.
M. TURULUTU.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Macquarie-street Election.
N. S. Wales’s queer Legislative Council, which is so
very like the Irish Free State Senate, now abolished,
has had another election, and 15 gentlemen have
earned the right to sport gold passes for a dozen
years.
The electors were all members of Parliament.
Three years ago a number of them failed in the task
of marking their ballot-papers formally, but on this
occasion all achieved it. A proud revelation of the
fact that the schoolmaster is abroad in the land and
that peace hath its victories no less renowned than
war.
There were 32 candidates, of whom 11 were
U.A.P., four U.C.P., 15 Labor and two Ind. Lab.
Seven U.A.Ps., three U.C.Ps., four Labs, and one
Ind. Lab. were elected. Among them are three new
men: Graham Waddell (U.C.P.), formerly president
of the N. S. Wales Graziers; H. J. R. Clayton
(U.A.P.), member of an old legal firm, and A. W.
McNamara (Lab.).
There were 147 voters, and the quota was 9.118 ;
nevertheless, only three candidates secured enough
primary votes to put them in—Hugh Latimer (U.A.P.),
Hugh M. Wraggs (U.C.P.) and F. P. Kneeshaw
(U.A.P.). Veteran Minister J. Ryan received only
four primary votes. Yet there are 15 Ministers, and
presumably Mr. Ryan voted for himself. The old
Lithgow journalist was saved by preferences. It is
recorded, as a happy Macquarie-street touch, that
when he was elected “members of all parties warmly
congratulated him” —on having been chosen almost
last on the list out of other people’s leavings.
Something Attempted, Nothing Done.
Victorian State politics become more farcical as the
session nears a weary end. Council and Assembly
seem to be chiefly engaged in games of “tiggy” that
are just a bore to the rest of the State. Assembly
passes bills and Council rejects them.
At one stage Mr. Dunstan determined to rid him :
self of this Leg. Council bill-killing by going to the
country. However, his allies refused to stake their
seats, and the Council has gone on thwarting the
Government.
Last week the Assembly’s Greater Melbourne
Council Bill went into the Council wastepaper-basket
for the second time. Whether or not Melbourne’s
common utilities would be better administered by a
Metropolitan Council, the bill deserved more deli-
beration than it received from the Uppish House.
Possibly the Assembly is wrong in believing that
a central council could be more efficient than the
present Board of Works; but Premier Dunstan has
every justification for his expressed annoyance at this
repetition of Council’s contempt for bills from “the
other place.” It is taking all the point out of the
joke of State politics in Victoria.
Jobless Youth and Crime.
Nearly every Victorian trade carried more appren-
tices and probationers for the year to June 30. The
Apprenticeship Commission estimates the increase at
36 p.c. over 1935 figures and 69 p.c. over those
for 1934.
This is reassuring, but youth employment is stili
far from satisfactory. Along with other Australian
States and Maoriland, Victoria has a large number
of boys between 17 and 22 who have never worked.
Others, driven by the depression into dead-end occu-
pations, have been sufficiently educated by the State
to resent their outlook.
Increasing numbers of such youths are appear-
ing before Victorian Courts. Melbourne General
Sessions had 30 persons up for sentence on one
day ; a third were under 20 years of age, another
third younger than 26.
This isolated instance reveals proportions much
higher than those shown in the more accurate age-
groups compiled annually by Victorian prison offi-
cials ; in 1935 the gaols received more prisoners over
30 than under 30, but the largest individual age-group
was still that between 20 and 30. In 1933 offenders
under 20 years of age increased by half as much again
over 1921 figures, but in 1934 the number was almost
back to the 1921 mark—an eloquent indication that
better times breed fewer criminals. However, a
corresponding increase between 20 and 30 still existed
in 1934. Police experience bears out these figures ;
much time is spent investigating the work of youthful
offenders.
No Court likes to send young people to gaol, and
where possible they are released on good-behavior
bonds that are generally honored. But prison itself
is a better crime deterrent than is generally admitted ;
Victorian Penal Department figures show that nearly
90 p.c. of those who go to gaol do so only once.
Even better deterrents are methods of preven-
tion, and of these employment is easily the best.
Efforts to improve the lot of workless depression-
youths are still demanded of Australian and' Maori-
land industry and government. Victorian building
trades are setting a good example.
Route Marches and Unemployed.
Eminently worthy of notice is a military-training
course unique in the history of this country—
a continuous route march by a section of the perma-
nent artillery under mechanised conditions.
Starting from Victoria Barracks, Sydney, the
party—about 60 all ranks, with two guns and a
number of wireless, cable and staff cars—travelled by
tne north-western route to Warwick, on the Darline
Downs, and thence to Brisbane. The journey to
Warwick was made in nine days. On the way to
Brisbane artillery practice under active-service condi-
tions was held. For the return from Brisbane the
east-coast route was chosen. Major H. B. Sewell
is in command.
The success of this experiment should encourage
an extension, if only as a substitute for relief work.
In the Queensland march the only extra expense seems
to be the cost of petrol and oil and wear and tear
of machines; the men get the same rations and pay
as in barracks.
In the beginning, if the plan were extended to
workless young men, only infantry units need be
called for, and marching would be regulated by the
inexperience of the enlisted material. Enlistment
would be voluntary and for single men only; term
of service, say, six months. The men would draw relief
pay as they do under prevailing relief-work condi-
tions. At the end of the six months they could go back
to relief-work, if nothing better offered, and a fresh
batch of volunteers could be enlisted. The units
would, of course, have their own transport and
supply; and the A.S.C. and staff services would
benefit greatly by practical experience which is out
of their reach under our present “training” system.
A voluntary system of billeting would very con-
siderably reduce commissariat costs. Here again the
staff experience would be worth its weight in gold.
Billeting is not compulsory under Australian law,
but experience of the solitary occasion on which it
was tried in Australia on a voluntary basis suggests
that, given publicity enough and efficient advance staff
work along the route, it would succeed again. Many
will recall the spontaneous aid given in war years
by the inhabitants of those country towps through
which contingents marched to enlist in Sydney.
Billeting requirements are shelter and meals,
paid for at a fixed rate. Troops are allotted to dwell-
ings according to the size of these and their occu-
piers’ ability to take in a party. In the case of a
route march shelter for a night and two meals would
be all that is required.
To people indifferent to matters concerning
defence, the foregoing suggestions may seem fan-
tastic. The first objection would be financial, since
relief payments are a State matter, and the Com-
monwealth would necessarily control the training
scheme. But it is the Commonwealth Government’s
plain duty to do something for unemployed young
men and a great deal more for defence, and the jobs
could be combined. One thing is certain: 90 p.c.
of those taking part in training of the kind suggested
would be infinitely the better for it in body and spirit.
"Vast Expansion."
Said Premier Forgan Smith in a recent propagandist
article: “Queensland provides opportunities for vast
expansion of its secondary industries.” True ; but
Queensland politicians have provided large obstacles
to expansion, vast or otherwise.
Latest factory figures are for 1934-35, which
provides opportunities for retrospection.
Value of production in these industries —that is,
value added to raw materials in process of manu-
facture—has moved as shown below:
Queensland. Other States.
1915 £9,204,513 £53,908,582
1935 14,623,319 128,903,878
Increases £5,418,806 £74,995,296
The ratio of expansion in Queensland was from
100 to 159 ; in the other States, 100 to 240. Still
more illuminating are the figures per head of popu-
lation :
1915. 1935. Increases.
New South Wales .. £l2 18 10 £23 4 0 £lO 5 2
Victoria .. .. 13 18 0 26 8 0 12 10 0
QUEENSLAND .. 13 5 10 15 4 5 1 18 7
South Australia .. 10 18 5 16 7 3 5 8 10
Westralia .. .. 900 14 38 538
Tasmania .. .. 9 14 10 13 15 8 4 0 10
All States .. .. £l2 13 10 £2l 8 3 £8 14 5
The period under review witnessed in Queens-
land the expenditure of many millions of pounds—
borrowed, of course —in “State enterprises,” including
cattle stations which covered an area greater than
Scotland. Taxation rose from under £1,000,000 to
£6,500,000 in 1935 and to over £7,000,000 in 1936.
Per head the jump in 20 years was from £1 Bs. 2d.
to £6 16s. 3d.
In value of factory production Queensland
descended from second-highest to second-lowest place
among the States. In 1915 Queensland’s factory pro-
duction was worth 12s. per capita more than the
average for all States. In 1935 Queensland was
£6 15s. lOd. below the average—almost equal to the
whole of the State taxation in 1935.
The movements are more significant in regard
to employment in the factories. Numbers of factory
workers:
1915. 1935. Increase.
Queensland .. .. 42,079 43,048 969
Other States .. .. 278,992 406,550 127,558
All States .. .. 321,071 449,598 128,527
In the State that, as Mr. Smith says, provides
opportunities for “vast expansion” of secondary
industries the increased employment was 48 per
annum. Queensland’s percentage increase was 2.3
in the other States 45.7. Queensland’s share in the
total increase was 1 in 133.
In effect, the “vast expansion” refuses to materi-
alise, evidently because of the vast expansion of
yearly deficits, unproductive debt and taxation. Taxa-
tion reform would make a difference, and the new
method of assessing income tax seems a step in the
right direction.
Secrecy and Suppression.
South Australians, very properly concerned at the
growth of government by regulation and kindred
excrescences, have been stirred to indignation by a
secret trial and a concurrent order by a special magis-
trate. Defendant, a wealthy pastoralist, was convicted
of being drunk while in charge of a car; the order
was that his name should be suppressed under the
Evidence Act, 1929.
There was no legal or other justification for the
secret trial or the act of suppression, and when the
public was aroused the name (Dutton) was released
by the order of the same S.M. The Attorney-General
then told the newspapers—as did Federal Minister
Paterson in the affair of Mrs. Freer —that the case was
“closed so far as the Government is concerned.”
But, like the Mrs. Freer case, it cannot be
regarded as closed. When the Legislature passed the
Evidence Act, 1929, it foresaw the great danger that
might occur, and provided that, whenever the Court
made any order for suppression forbidding the publi-
cation of any evidence or name,
The Court shall report the fact to the Attorney-
General and shall embody in its report a statement of
(a) the evidence or name (as the case may be) by such
order forbidden to be published; and ( b ) the circum-
stances in which the order was made.
It is presumed that Mr. Coombe, the S.M. who
made the illegal order, has reported to the Attorney-
General as required by the Legislature. Yet this
report has not been made available to the public.
Parliament, unfortunately, is not in session, otherwise
there would be an immediate demand for its publica-
tion. But the Minister cannot escape his responsi-
bility. The report is a public and not a secret docu-
ment.
It is admitted that the case was unannounced to
press or public, and was taken before the usual time,
in a back room of the court at that. These are
“circumstances of the case” stated by the Legislature.
The whole matter demands that an investigation
should be held by an independent legal practitioner.
Natives in New Guinea.
Report of a wanderer from that region:
When Australia received the New Guinea Mandate the
greatest problem it had to handle was the native. Few of the
new civil servants had had tropical training. The- Admini-
strator had not sufficient pidgin English to speak to his
houseboys. To officials supposed to be versed in the ways of
natives, a native was somebody who went about asking for
“tikkipent” and “baccy.”
Brown Brother was a cat of another color. The Germans
learnt his quality. He killed their planters and sang amid
the ashes of their missions. They soon realised that, like
a good horse or a good dog, he respected strength and fairness.
When he was bad they smacked him with a flattened bicycle
tyre. They kept him under strict discipline, but they did not
.interfere officially with his native customs.
When white women passed in the streets Brown Brother
stood up. As a houseboy and a worker, he had his rights,
and he was well fed. The Rabaul police were a force equal to
the Senegalese.
When the Australian Administration took over it set out
to please the League Permanent Commission, which knew as
little about natives as the Administration did. The use of the
cane by planters, which in the German time was allowed under
severe restrictions, was forbidden. Punishment was mainly
the calaboose, which was no punishment at all. There was no
show of gratitude—the fierce Manus men of the Admiralties
celebrated the first year of freedom by heaving Administration
police boys into the sea. By 1923, conditions were such that
experienced men went covertly armed when superintending
boys from some localities.
A growing number of offences against women, of petty
thefts and mounting insolence led to the gradual reinstitution of
flogging. Murders on the outskirts led to hangings. The old
system of flogging had been a mild thing; beatings were
rarely so heavy as to prevent a boy returning to work the same
day. The rare modern application of the cat deprived the
employer of his boy for a period and sent the boy back to
work sullen and revengeful.
Weakness culminated in the appointment of General
McNicoll as Administrator. He had been headmaster of a
girls’ school and Federal member for Werriwa, precariously
won from and since lost to Labor. As a soldier and as a
man he is highly respected, but in regard to Brown Brother he
is an idealist. Under his rule it has become an offence to
swear at a native. But a native, using his own language, may
swear at passers-by: the Administration is Weak on native lan-
guages. For all practical purposes, the native has the freedom
or a white man in Rabaul and other N.G. towns, and he uses
his freedom with the mentality of a 10-year-old schoolboy
™ meeting presided over by J. C. Mullally, president of
the Planters Association and leader of the unofficial minority
m the Legislative Council, has been held to protest against
the Administration s native policy. About 250 residents were
present. “Lorries crowded with natives drunk with betel nut,”
assaults on white women and “Peeping Tom” cases were men-
tioned as among the symptoms of native unruliness, and a
committee was appointed to see the Administrator.
The position is no joke. In the New Britain area there
are 150 natives to every white; and they are a fierce lot.
For a "Bad-Customer Country."
From a clearing in Papua:
iM l tii LE i S (23/9/’36) that value of imports
y o °™ Netherlands East Indies to Australia for the five years
1930-35 exceeded value of exports to the N.E.I. by £11,621,500
sterling. Nevertheless, this “bad-customer country” had the
audacity to ask the Government at Canberra to remove the
bounty of 2d. per pound on rubber grown in Papua. And the
Government at Canberra hastened to oblige.
When rubber-planting in Papua seemed on the verge
ot extinction, a tax of 4d. per pound was imposed on all raw
rubber imported into Australia, the proceeds of the tax
on Papuan rubber being handed back to the planters. As the
world p ric e °f rubber improved, this “grant-in-aid” was
reduced to 2d. per pound, but planters were able to struggle
along. The improvement in price continuing, one or two
long-established companies were able to declare a dividend,
lhere then seemed a prospect of the rubber industry becoming
worth while and expanding, which was the declared object
of the grant-in-aid.”
On the strength of this the writer bought a derelict rubber
plantation, and in 12 months cleared an area nearly double
that achieved by the previous owners in 20 years. It was
a struggle, and possible only because of the grant of 2d. per
pound. Now this has been withdrawn, and my clearing.
must revert to jungle. The larger companies may be able
to continue a modified programme of extension; the smaller
plantations cannot at the present price. Yet it is to individual
planters that the Governments of Australia and Papua must
look for future development. The larger companies, whose
shareholders have gone without dividends for a quarter of
a century, must divert profits to making some return for
capital invested, whereas the smaller plantations, being mostly
owned by the occupier and having negligible “overhead,” can
(.and would) devote any profits to extending areas under rubber.
The grant-m-aid” costs the Australian taxpayer nothing,
and the total amount, as more than one legislator has said, is
a j j e to Australia.” Yet it has been taken from us
and the day when the- Papuan Government can stand on its
own legs (financially) has been pushed further back into the
remote future.
And all to oblige a “bad-customer country!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: I was discussing the Affair
with Bill the Bullocky. “Who do you
think wrote this?” I said, and then I read
out to William the Rhapsody in B Flat
by the Right Hon. W. M. Hughes, P.C.,
K.C., M.P.:
The King is in love. The romance and
tragedy of his situation must rend to their
uttermost roots the hearts of all peoples.
On the threshold of his reign, ere yet the
Crown rests upon his head, a piteous pas-
sion afflicts him and a dread choice con-
fronts him —a choice between all that love
means, with its infinite peace and assuage-
ment, and the stem path of duty and
national responsibility.
“Blime!” Bill interposed:
Upon the King and upon the lady he has
chosen rest a solemn and crushing responsi-
bility. Theirs is the sacrifice, theirs the
decision. But if from this fiery ordeal of
purifying passion they come victorious
over self and stand sublime in sacrifice,
they may light such a torch of selflessness
and devotion to the highest call of duty as
will light the feet of men in the struggle
of life and dispel the menacing clouds
of strife and selfishness that now beset the
world.
“ ’Oo wrote it?” said Bill. “Some silly
ole tart, o’ course.” “Wrong,” I replied.
“But perhaps you can guess who wrote
this?” ; and then I repeated the Yellow-
plush Fantasia (Op. 57) by the Honorable
the Premier, Mr. B. S. B. Stevens,
M.L.A.:
Whatever be the issue of his soul-shaking
ordeal—and inevitably it rests between the
renunciation of a crown and a human
heart’s most yearning desire —whatever be
the issue, let us not seek to judge but to
understand the agony that exacting fate
has sent our Royal master.
“Master,” interposed Bill. “Yes, master,
you vegetable!” I repeated. “But hold
on, there’s a lot more”:
Of all the millions that this monarch
might have loved
“Millions.” Bill fairly yelled it this
time. “Oh, shut up,” I barked:
Qf all the millions that this monarch
might have loved, it is unspeakably sad
that she whom fate has sent him could
never wear the Crown, and only in
Homeric self-conquest—the victory of' sur-
render —can he himself retain the Throne.
All history, we remember, is stained with
searing passions that have afflicted noble
hearts. These passions are not of man.
In their conquest lies the soul’s most lofty
triumph.
To-day, in our affliction, we pray for
such a conquest. A riven and distracted
world cries out for sacrifice. That its
victims are our King and a sister-nation’s
daughter may weld the hearts of two great
peoples in a common sympathy. Let them
but be triumphant, and jointly move the
world with their great renunciation, then in
England’s hour of peril Arthur may appear
again and have found the Holy Grail.
“Another ole tart, I’ll swear,” said Bill,
“and even sillier than the other. But
’oo are they?” When I told him their
names, sex and ages (the Right Honor-
able is 72 and the Honorable just on 48)
his language was positively revolting.
* * # *
“Y.”: Melbourne’s Archbishop Head
was reported by both the “Age” and the
“Argus” (7/12/’36) as having said in
Hobart: “For two hundred years and
more the royal house has set us an
example of Christian home life.” Two
hundred years ago (following George 1.,.
a wife divorced and imprisoned on
the ground of adultery, and with Ger-
man mistresses) George 11. arrived, and
when his wife Caroline, on her death-
bed, advised him to marry again he
replied to the effect that he preferred
mistresses. George 111. was an improve-
ment, but his sons were a disreputable lot,
involved in a queer variety of well-
founded scandals. George IV. married
Mrs. Fitzherbert secretly, and authorised
public denials that he had done so. He
separated from his official wife in less
than a year, instituted two persecuting in-
quiries into her morals, and ordered that
she should not be admitted to the Abbey
on the occasion of his Coronation. Wil-
liam IV., with no legitimate children, had
a large family by the actress Mrs. Jor-
dan, whom he allowed to die in exile
caused by debt. Christian home life!
* * * *
“King’s Inns”: This week’s laugh
comes from Casino (N.S.W.), where a
gentleman was charged with bathing in
a river unclothed. When the nude
bather was accosted by the police ser-
geant, he replied “You have no juris-
diction. I am on the high seas.” The
magistrate fined him a fiver.
* * * *
“S. Gumm”: What Queen Wally
would have had to undergo had she been
“W ashin' y'r CLOTHES, y dirty cow, w'en We Want that water f' the billy!”
called to the throne. “Debrett” is the
authority, and “D.’s” punctuation is fol-
lowed : —-
Supported by two Bishops, the Queen
Consort kneels at the steps of the Altar,
while prayer is said, then passes to the
Place of Anointing, a faldstool set be-
tween the Altar steps and King Edward’s
Chair; there she is anointed by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury on the crown of
the head, while four Peeresses hold a rich
Pall of Cloth of Gold over her, has a ring
placed upon the fourth finger of her right
hand as a seal of sincere faith, and a
Crown reverently placed on her head by
the Archbishop of Canterbury. (At this
point, the Peeresses put on their Coronets;)
the Archbishop of Canterbury (at this
point, the Peeresses put on thier Coronets) ;
Ivory Rod with the Dove into her left
hand, after which she proceeds to and
ascends her Throne, bowing to the
Sovereign in passing.
There is a lot more of it, but long
before the end Queen Wally would have
screamed for cocktails.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Which part of the Aus-
tralian coast can put up the best —or
worst —record for wrecks? The Great
Barrier, of course, makes a pretty good
showing, especially in the vicinity of
Raine Island, where ships’ skeletons are
numerous. Some of the Torres Strait
islands, such as Stephens and Bramble
Cay, are in the running, and the southern
point of Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) has a
nasty enough record. But my nomina-
tion goes to King Island, off the Tas-
manian coast, where somewhere about 50
known wrecks have occurred. Is there
any higher figure than this?
“M.C.”: Even among monarchs of
his own name Edward VIII.’s reign was
no record in the short-distance stakes-
fa«T r t d t V ‘ M e ?b ° nly fr ° m A n il tb 9 ’
1483, to June 22 the same year. On the
other hand, most Edwards have been
stayers—the Phar Lap of the lot Edward
111., who started in 1327 and ended in
13 ? 7 Edward VIII. just about makes
n!r hu , n n re ?' h n"r? “ hlst ? ry to ? av, r
abdicated, his shift being in the least
unpleasant circumstances. In fact, no
king has left his job so pleasantly, for,
in addition to those on whom natural
death closed the chapter, more than 300
kings have been overthrown, about 150
assassinated, more than 100 executed, 100
slain in battle and 25 tortured to death.
Between 20 and 30 went mad, and an
equal number committed suicide.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: A point made by the author
na A i• r- . , .
at Anthony Adverse in a fine short story
might have application to the ex-King,
who was Edward P. It was that anyone
who had been in the war must have
'thereby had his notions of conventional
behavior considerably changed. Of
course, Edward P. was not in the war
in the true sense of the word, though that
was no fault of his. Some Diggers will
remember him, dripping with the mud
that plastered everybody, ploughing his
motor-bike through the slush like any
ordinary dispatch runner. If he saw the
front line it was from at least sausage-
balloon distance ; but there was no need
to be in the front line to see enough
hideousness and fearful tragedy to make
most human conventions seem inconse-
quential and piffling. Pro*bably Edward
P. saw enough to make him feel that un-
titled and unadorned humanity in the raw
is the heroic part in modern civilisation.
Certainly he has behaved ever since as
if that were so.
* * * *
“C.J.R.”: There are many things you
cannot, or should not, do in church, but
did anyone ever get crimed for coughing
in one? I did. I’ll admit that I may
have chosen an inopportune moment to
ease my throat. The chaplain, who liked
his wine, was holding forth on the
horrors of alcohol, and had just arrived
at “Wine is a curse —a curse, I repeat!”
when I coughed. No comedian ever got
better results than I did with that cough.
Some 1200 men roared laughing; I
didn’t, though, when I was hauled be-
fore the officer of the. watch for “hold-
ing the chaplain up to ridicule,” and
handed 14 days’ galloping around the
parade ground for an hour or so daily
with a .303 rifle for company.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: It is the rule in N.S.W.
that any prisoner due for release during
holidays should have the key turned in
the lock for him before they commence.
So there are persons now cribbed,
cabined and confined who, instead of
waiting until January 3, will be enjoying
freedom and Christmas Eve beer (if their
friends have any for them) on December
24. As a kindly thought on the part of
an association which looks after ex-gaol-
birds, a card is handed to all Christmas
Eve releasees giving them the addresses
where free Christmas dinners can be had.
But for that the opening of the gates
would be a bad turn for some unfoi-
tunates.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Supreme Court has
granted probate “in solemn form ’ of a
will, although it had been torn to pieces
by the lady who made it. The Court
ruled that the tearing was done “at a
time when she was not mentally capable
of forming a valid intention to revoke
it.”
* * * *
“Terry Firmer”: Pointed reminders of
overdue accounts (B. 25 /11 / ’36)? A
storekeeper at Nannine (W.A.) in the
roaring days of the Murchison had a
client to whose account each month was
appended the usual “A cheque will
oblige.” After months of weary waiting
this gentle reminder was replaced with
“A cheque would surprise.” It did, too,
when he got it.
* * ‘ *
“Carrick, A. 8.” : Noises? Naval gun-
fire is appalling when above deck —you
think your head has been knocked off
if it catches you with taut muscles and
closed jaws—but the worst experience is
to be sent inside an iron tank or boiler
with a hammer and chisel to chip rust
or scale. A few hours of that, even
with ear-pads on, and you can’t hear
properly for a week after. It even
makes your teeth feel sore.
* * * *
“Amity”: In M.L. educational circles
the favorite story of bad handwriting
(B. 3/12/’36) concerns an elderly army
captain who, to eke out an inadequate
pension, accepted a position under the
Education Board. An old martinet with
a furious temper, he was at daggers
drawn with his young woman assistant.
But the damsel had spirit, and, finding
the captain had reported her to the
board for some small misdemeanor, she
wrote her own version to the board’s
secretary. It was before the days of type-
writers, and she was unable to decipher
more than an odd word here and there
of the handwritten reply. She invoked
the aid of the local clergyman, who
studied the letter at length with knitted
brows. “Well, my dear,” he pronounced
at last, “I think the finding must be in
your favor. The last line apparently is
“Never mind the damned old fool!”
* * * #
“Safrican”: In the opening scenes of
“Anthony Adverse” the “wicked mar-
quis” takes his blonde wife, old Bonny-
feather’s daughter, to his ancestral es-
tates for their honeymoon. The scene is
laid in either Spain or the South of
France —I am not clear which —and the
date is 1772. Judge of my surprise there-
fore to see the grounds full of sturdy
eucalypts, the bark peeling from their
massive, well-grown trunks —this being a
few years before Captain Cook made his
first contact with Australia! I know that
Australian gum-trees have spread all
over Africa, because I have seen them,
and presumably they are in the neigh-
borhood of Hollywood as well, but it is
rather startling to find them featured in
Europe in 1772.
BALLADE OF SIMPLE WOOING.
Time was, according to report,
When common blokes, like you and me,
Would lightly pick a likely sort
And coax her with a lump of tree
The old ancestral hearth to flee
In favor of a bramble screen,
Broiled dinosaurian steak for tea,
With no one barging on the scene.
And as for ladies of the Court —
Gadzooks! no king a king would be
Who didn’t pull his whiskers taut
And give it out that she and she —
A gross or so —by his decree
Would in the harem wait serene
Shahrazadean vis-a-vis,
With no one barging on the scene.
No more, alas, such simple sport!
There’s Mrs. F. put back to sea,
And Mrs. S. quite overwrought,
And many another devotee
At Venus’ shrine, in some degree.
Has learned no swain, however keen,
Can take a dame upon his knee
With no one barging on the scene.
Envoi.
Edward, what say you to our plea,
Oh, that these times those times had been
When Daphnis and Chloe shared their lea,
With no one barging on the scene?
N.S.W.
MACANN.


“Fiona”: The weariest Australian yet
heard of was mentioned in the Divorce
Court the other day, when his wife inti-
mated she desired to be rid of him. He
had a rooted objection to work of any
kind, but after years of idleness was in-
duced to apply for relief work. This
he obtained ; but, complained the lady,
he was too lazy to go and collect his
relief pay. The Court thought it good
enough for a decree.
* * * *
“R.T.8.”: Most American authorities
agree that the slang term “0.K.” origi-
nated with Andrew Jackson, not Andrew
Johnson (B. 2/12/’36). The most plau-
sible explanation is that he borrowed it
from the Choctaw “ oke” or “hoke,”
meaning “it is so.” Jackson, of course,
was anything but illiterate, but in the
Presidential campaign of 1828 his oppo-
nents tried to fasten such an imputation
on him by suggesting that the two letters
denoted his abbreviation of “Orl K’rect.”
“V.A.G.”: Cresswell O'Reilly’s seven
suggested origins of the abbreviation
“0.K.” were discarded years ago by
lexicographers in favor of two others,
viz., “Och kaus” the German for “all
correct,” and “ola kala,” the modern
Greek for “very well.”
* * * *
J. Smethurst: The ancient story of
the professor who said the piece of brick
was a piece of impertinence is much
older than any contributor has yet sug-
gested. It is over 60 years since I heard
it from the late J. G. Minty at Richmond
(Vic.), and he said that he had it
from his father, a graduate of a
Scotch university. Probably every pro-
fessor and every student has been
familiar with the story for the last 100
years or so—ever since that great geolo-
gist Hugh Miller groped about in the
then little-known Old Red Sandstone of
Scotland. It is more than likely that
Hugh Miller himself (never a professor,
but often a lecturer) was the originator
of the rebuke to the cheeky student who
thought that a piece of Old Red Brick
might pass muster among specimens of
Old Red Sandstone.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: “Likell” (B. 2/12/’36)
scouts the suggestion that cigarette butts
will ignite inflammable vegetable matter,
but admits the possibility of it's being
done with pipe tobacco rolled into a
cigarette. Actually, with the last-named
the fire risk is even less than with the
“tailor-made.” Only under exceptionally
dry conditions will the “hand-made” of
fine-cut pipe tobacco continue to
smoulder after being set down. Hence
its popularity among cane cockies.
“Selma”: A Sydney baby not long ago
lost its life owing to the fact that a
lighted cigarette can start a fire. The
child was sleeping in its pram on the
lawn outside a block of Bellevue Hill
flats when a still-burning cigarette, tossed
from a window, alighted on the pram
and smouldered among the flimsy pro-
tecting nets until they burst into flames.
* * * m
“Are”: A cable mentions that second
offenders for drunkenness in Spokane
(Washington) will be given the option of
half a pint of castor oil or gaol. It
would be interesting to have some
medical opinion on the possible effect of
such a dose on a person in feeble health.
The usual dose is about an ounce; half
a pint would mean 10 ounces. The
malingerer’s dose in New Guinea is a
mixture of castor oil and asafoetida,
with some sulphur added to make it
stick to the teeth. The natives like it
and come back for a second issue, but
one helping is enough for any white man.
The Spokane police courts might find
that treatment less dangerous for their
drunks.
“Captain Pintle”: A new lot of sea-
dangers is developing rapidly on the
British coasts, particularly for the mer-
cantile marine. The navy and the life-
boat lads get some advertisement out of
it at times, but the p.b. cargo-wallah who
damages some cheerful citizen’s “yacht”
is for it. Lots of yachties did great
work in the war; lots are fine smallboat
sailors, but a new breed seems to be
"Two of you blokes get on with, the drills , the rest can dig out the drain
and Til have a look at me Watch. Then Well all be doing some-
thin when the boss comes.”
developing, which needs Belisha Beacons
—or a sock on the jaw the first time you
catch them ashore. Constant games of
80-peep are being played in the Channel
between ten thousand tons of deadweight
and toy-boats whose owners are quite
cheery in explaining that they were all
so blotto that port seemed much the
same as starboard light when they shoved
up the funny old lamps. What’s a lark
to them may mean the loss of a liveli-
hood to the professional seaman, or of
good men’s lives in rescuing the idiots.
“Kali”: “Canuck” (B. 2/12/’36) must
have left Canada a long time ago. Not
"But you said I mustn't Wear it any more.”
only does that Dominion require a pass-
port from those who would enter it, but
no shipping company will issue a ticket
unless the applicant holds one. Nowa-
days one can enter Canada as a tourist,
but not to take a job, and Canadian
law is emphatic that each applicant for
entry must produce $250 in cash.
“Narooma”: Doctors who charge
10s. 6d. per mile (B, 25/11 /’36) do exist,
A few years ago at a western' N.S.W.
shearing-shed a rouseabout got a bad
attack of ptomaine poisoning. The boy
was unconscious when discovered, we
could get no light on his case, and his
plight was so alarming that we sent the
shearers’ rep. hell-for-leather to the
homestead to ’phone a doctor from the
town, 20 miles away. He returned with
the information that the medico would
come if £2O were guaranteed for mile-
age. The air was lurid at the hastily-
convened shearers’ meeting, but the
money was guaranteed by men who
could ill spare it. Just at this stage,
however, the patient appeared a shade
further removed from death’s door, so
a car was commandeered and he was
rushed 20 miles to the local hospital,
where the same doctor had to attend to
him —minus mileage. Country doctors
in general command the highest admira-
tion and respect, but legislation such as
a Victorian Judge recently suggested is
needed to protect the public from the ex-
ceptions.
* * * *
“Filibuster” : The press discovery that
Germany and Italy are nefariously land-
ing troops to assist the Spanish insur-
gents is another mare’s nest. Ever since
the start of the show freelances from
all countries, including Britain, have
been pouring into Spain to fight on one
side or another; the alleged German-
Italian troops are just another indepen-
dent reinforcement. It is quite impos-
sible to stop this sort of thing. During
the Carlist wars of last century “British
Legions” were actually formed in the
Old Country to fight with the Carlist or
Government forces in Spain. This had
much to do with the passing of the
Foreign Enlistment Acts which to-day
forbid the enrolment of British subjects
as troops to be used for or against a
non-enemy country.
* # * *
“El. V.”: There should be plenty of
meat for the believers in omens in the
lessons appointed to be read in the
Church of England on Sunday, December
6. For the morning service, it was the
first nine verses of Isaiah xxix, which
begin: —-
Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where
David dwelt!
David, of course, is the King’s familiar
Christian name. And Ariel would do
for West End London with its lightness
and irresponsibility. The stern old
prophet proceeds to say that the voice
of Ariel shall “be as of a familiar spirit”
and its speech “shall whisper out of the
dust,” which sounds as if he looked for-
ward to the existence of the “News-
Chronicle ’ and the rest of a light-minded
and rumor-mongering press. He added
that the place where David dwelt would
be “visited with earthquake and great
noise,” and that certain persons were
“drunken but not with wine ; they stagger
but not with strong drink.”
* * * *
“Observer”: In a par. on the burned
Crystal Palace (B. 9/12/’36), “D.8.K.”
wonders why raiding Germans failed to
drop a bomb or two on the place in the
war years. He gave the explanation:
“On a bright moonlit night it must have
been a glittering mass from above.”
Exactly—just like a sheet of water, into
which none would waste good “bomben.”
* * * *
“Tovarisch Nichevo”: The Christmas
present on show in the Sydney shops
which delights me most is the new Rus-
sian pyjama. This is displayed in two
color schemes. It seems a pity they are
not named the “Zinoviev” and the
“Kamenev,” but apparently nobody has
thought of it. Both garments are collar-
less, perhaps for the convenience of
hasty headsmen. In one a broad red
band runs round the neck, emphasising
the position of the vertebrae; another
broad red band goes down the left-middle
just over the heart. Firing squads merely
have to aim at this decoration a little to
the left of the second button and the
victim is a gone coon. I propose patent-
ing an improvement by which the cardiac
region will be indicated by an embroi-
dered daisy. This will greatly conveni-
ence poor shots and act as an elegant
caution to wearers. The second set of
colors —the design is uniform —is yellow
and black. Fugitives wearing these colors
could be seen a mile away in the snow.
I admit that general adoption would be
hard on bloodhounds and black-trackers,
but in Russia they are all for labor-
saving.
NO BARRACKING.
“The Test match was played in happy spirit.
The crowd was sporting, and there was no un-
pleasant barracking.”
Bradman a duck, and Fingleton another;
And five —or was it half a dozen?—more
Failed to get down in time, to block, to
smother —
In other words, to score;
Enough, you’d think, to make a knitting mother
Put down her wool, and roar:
Yet even the patrons of the bleachers, brother,
The insult silent bore.
Was there a man among them? Is the flower
Of barracking as dead as chivalry?
Yabba, you should be vocal at this hour
Of monstrous perfidy,
To stir ’em into action, to endower
Their lungs with majesty
Fit to be heard, and, heard, enough to cowet
This insolent enemy!
“The crowd was sporting!” Why, it’s provo-
cation
Enough to make the angels moult and weep
To think that members of this rising nation
Could show themselves so cheap!
“In happy spirit!” There’s an innovation—
A slogan fit for sheep!
Or was that Brisbane sun the explanation—
That is, were all asleep?
N.S.W.
O’GOOG.


K
Ķ
ĸ
20/b/l'6
IQ for 9*
. W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.)
V
mm
V
THIS
GENERATI
COR K T I PPED CIGARET T E
3 F
THE
POLITICAL POINTS
One of the events of a crowded week
was a cablegram from the Douglas
Credit Society of N.S.W. (“Demand your
National Dividend!”) urging King
Edward to “stand firm.” Meaning what?
That his Majesty should demand his
International Dividend?
What King Edward was up against
when he thought Anglican hostility to
divorce could be overcome was faintly
indicated by a Melbourne clergyman in
a letter to the “Age.” He wrote that in
20 years’ experience of the Melbourne
diocese he had known of only one Angli-
can marriage of divorced persons, and
they were a legally-sundered man and
wife remarrying.
After all, the marketing and aviation
referendum is to be held on March 6 ;
but there is to be “nothing like an elec-
tion campaign,” Mr. Lyons says:
A limited number of meetings in each
State at which members of the Cabinet will
speak will be arranged, and it is expected
that the U.C.P. will attend to country dis-
tricts.
In other words, the Cockies are to carry
the baby and take all the blame.
The Q.C.E. has had no particular luck
with its election nominations, but it
seems to have picked a winner at last.
W. H. Demaine, an old Q.C.E. man, has
been chosen to succeed the late James
Stopford in Maryborough, and he is un-
likely to have an opponent. Mary-
borough has no use for U.A.P. or U.C.P.
politics.
Sydney’s Milk Board is to be kept on
until the second investigator has re-
ported on its administration. The gentle-
man is struggling through evidence which
runs to 2,700,000 words. Casual visitors
form the opinion that Australians are
rather taciturn. They never come in
Contact with the people who give evi-
dence at these inquiries.
In a way the most interesting of the
five candidates for Darling Downs is
L. A. G. Boyce. He has come out as a
Conservative and has a Conservative
Association backing him. There are, of
course, heaps of Conservatives at every
general election, but they never sport
the label.
In a roaring cataract of rubbish about
King Edward, N.S.W. Premier Stevens
referred to “the dashing gallantry with
which he stood beside our Diggers in
the war, his life risked with theirs.” No
one has ever questioned Edward’s
courage, but this statement has as little
historical basis as the assertion of George
IV. that he led a charge of the. Guards
at Waterloo. “Didn’t I, Arthur?” the
too-merry monarch said on one occa-
sion to the. Duke of Wellington. “I
have heard your Majesty say so,” was
the grim reply.
Candidates for the N.S.W. Leg. Coun-
cil elections had to be nominated by two
members who also voted (there were 147
voters). Four of the 32 gentlemen who
went to the ballot failed to get a vote.
“And they talk about the secrecy of the
ballot!” hissed one of the victims, glar-
ing savagely at the chaps who had
nominated him.
Lyons proudly reports that he has re-
ceived a letter from the French Consul-
General praising Gullett’s contribution
to the trade agreement with the republic.
It revives a happy memory of Jack
Scaddan waving a document in the West-
ralian Assembly, and saying it completely
disposed of the charge that his Govern-
ment had given twice too much for the
Perth tramways. The letter was from the
co.’s g.m., who warmly congratulated the
Premier on having got such a bargain for
his country. In after years when losses
were piling up the subtle humor of the
communication was not appreciated.
After the death of the Prince Consort,
Queen Victoria retired from the world
and remained in retirement until it
began to seem that she would never
emerge. The “Times’’ recalled her by
telling her frankly she was neglecting
her duties and endangering the monarchy
“in the selfish indulgence of an unavail-
ing grief.” Unfortunately that sort of
British journalism went out with the
Victorian age. Had it' survived there
might have been no Mrs. Simpson affair.
In a moment snatched from its effort
to set up a new time record for end-of-
the-session legislation, the Government
at Canberra announced a five-year dis-
tribution of £150,000 among the universi-
ties. If it were a sign of belated recog-
“Russians, French, Germans, Britons and Australasians are fighting with the Government
troops in Spain; Germans, Italians, Portuguese and representatives of other nations with the
‘rebels.’”
“Blime, Alf, it’s a Spaniard!”
nition of the necessity for placing educa-
tion under national control —it is divided
among six provincial systems, each with
a Cabinet Minister and a personal staff
—the public might have reason to re-
joice, as well as the. universities. But it
is merely another indication that the
Federal Government has too little to do
for the revenue it gets and has no vision.
N.S.W. has an Egg Marketing Board
whose career has been chequered from
birth. A great many poultry-farmers
never had any use for it, and its finances
got into such a state that the Government
had to come to light with a substantial
guarantee. Now the High Court has
ruled that the board has no power to
extort statutory declarations from hen-
valets as to the number of eggs laid
by their birds and how they disposed of
them. A woman had been fined tl an
costs for refusing to furnish the sworn
information demanded.
People who once thought they saw
Priministerial timber in N.S.W. Deputy-
Premier Bruxner can’t understand his
complete surrender to his Transport
Commission on the motor-bus issue. But
it has become a habit with Bruxner to
shift his ground. At annual confer-
ences he used to say things like this to
the Charmers and Fettlers:
I do not hold with any agreement with
any other party for carrying out every
election. We stand, above all, for no pre-
selection.
At the last N.S.W. election all the Minis-
terial candidates were pre-selected by
Bruxner and Stevens.
Tasmania’s twenty-fifth Parliament has
held its last session. It was short as ses-
sions go ; nevertheless 70 bills were shot
out of the legislative machine. In a
previous session 99 bills were passed —
this in a State with a population of
235,000 whose national affairs are sup-
posed to be attended to at Canberra. How
can laws passed at such a rate be good
laws?
A bygone Sydney Government used
to boast that it's Consorting Act had
driven criminals to other States. By the
look of things the Queensland Govern-
ment will presently be able to claim that
its anti-s.p. legislation has driven illicit
bookmakers, tipsters and so forth beyond
its borders. The Government is entitled
to credit for sincerity and pluck, for
the law and administration strike at its
own supporters most.
The most frequent note made by Par-
liamentary reporters at Canberra is
“quorum formed.” Nearly every number
of “Hansard” is sprinkled with the ex-
pression. Even during the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff debate, two-thirds of the
members were missing time and again.
Not only Government schools should
have truant inspectors.
R. W. Dalton, the Senior British Trade
Commissioner, complains that the U.K.’s
share of Australia’s import trade has
“declined in two years from 60 p.c. to
58i p.c. and is still declining.’ It seems
little to complain about, especially con-
sidering Britain’s share of the import
trade of Argentina, in spite of trade
agreements. In 1934 British imports
from Argentina were valued at
£47,000,000, British exports to Argen-
tina at £14,000,000. And that was called
a “good” year.
Melbourne is to get the aircraft fac-
tory if the group of companies inter-
ested can come to terms with the State
Government. It wants a Fishermen s
Bend site, but stipulates that a high-ten-
sion transmission line must be removed.
Its advisers consider Fishermen’s Bend
much less exposed to danger of attack
than the Sydney and Adelaide sites
proposed.
In defiance of all the evidence N.S.W.
Labor members stuck to their silly story
that the crown was taken from the
gentleman who is now Duke of Windsor
because he had embarrassed the Govern-
ment by championing the unemployed.
They repeated it so often that even
Curtin lost patience with them and
“words” passed on the floor of the
House. No doubt Edward felt for the
unemployed, but the feeling wasn’t
strong enough to keep him in the one
job wherein he could have helped them.
He wrecked his career, and risked
wrecking the crown, because his feeling
for himself dominated all other senti-
ments. His tragedy was a tragedy of
self-pity.
Queensland Premier Forgan Smith
denies that increase of members and
Ministers’ salaries (£l5O p.a. from July
1) was forced upon him by Caucus. The
Trade and Labor Congress has protested
against this increase. Civil servants are
annoyed. Brisbane Labor aldermen say
that if members of Parliament are entitled
to more pay, so are they. Two questions
seem to be pertinent. One is whether a
State whose Government budgeted for
another deficit —£650,000 this time —can
afford the generosity. The other is whether
the legislators are worth more than they
have been getting.
Old hands among the Victorian Agra-
rians can see in the Night Trotting Bill
none of the good things observed by
Chief Secretary Bailey, who is a com-
paratively recent convert. The measure
was introduced by the Leg. Council’s un-
official leader, H. I. Cohen, who has
been a thorn in the Government’s side
on Upper House reform. It will go the
same way as 17 private members' bills
listed since early in the session.
The week-end brought two shocks to
Stevens, the cocksure N.S.W. Premier.
From his Treasury Department came the
news that for five of the twelve months
which are to see the Budget balanced
expenditure exceeded revenue by
£1,652,300; from Canberra the intelli-
gence that public subscriptions to the
latest • loan —virtually a 4 p.c. proposi-
tion —were “about” £2,000,000 short of
the £7,500,000 asked for. Stevens was
sure that a lot more could be got at
lower interest. The Commonwealth
Bank Board thought differently, and its
opinion was borne out by the market.
Sydney motor-bus proprietors whose
businesses are to be “taken over ’ by the
anti-socialist Government on March 1
are to be compensated for the rest of
the 12 months for which they were
licensed, compensation being based on
their returns for the previous year. This
is a surrender to U.A.P. members who
turned nasty, and for the moment they
have been mollified. The radical objec-
tion to anti-socialists’ socialisation of
transport which establishes vested in-
terests in ventures with a distressing ten-
dency to become obsolete —that remains.


IT’S BEEN HIS YEAR, ANYWAY.


iff
£H
I MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
imm
K
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.,
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane-
Melboumei
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report f.ee “Bulletin,” 13/6/’34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretaiy.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Sftreet, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; t. J. smnn,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSNAL ITEM S
S. Australia’s Rhodes scholar is Wil-
liam Douglas Allen, son of a Wesleyan
minister. He wins among 12 candidates
at his third attempt, the first having been
made when he was only 19. He took an
honors degree in science last year.
Physics is his subject, but he won the
Tennyson medal for English at his school
leaving examination. He is a fine athlete
and played centre-half for the Australian
hockey team against India.
Dubois found John McLaren basking
in retirement after nearly fifty strenu-
ous years in the public service. Born
in Parramatta, educated at Sydney
High School and University, he entered
the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank
JOHN McLaren retires.
in 1888, transferring to the Common-
wealth service at Federation. For 15
years he was Commonwealth electoral
officer for N.S.W., but in 1919 became
assistant-secretary to the Prime Min-
ister’s Department. From there his rise
was rapid. Two years later he was in
charge of the Home and Territories
Department. In 1928 he became a
member of the Public Service Board ;
a year later he took charge of the P.M.’s
affairs, and in 1933 went to London as
official secretary at Australia House. A
knighthood has since come his way.
He is a home-loving man, with literary
tastes and a musical bent which showed
itself even in his choice of a wife —she
was Emily Wynn, a leading Sydney
concert soprano.
Osborne Smith, visiting his native land
to celebrate his sixtieth birthday on Box-
ing Day, is a Sydney Grammar School
old boy who went abroad to manage the
London branch of the Commonwealth
Bank. He was acquired by the Imperial
Bank of India as managing governor, and
was made a Knight Bachelor seven years
ago and a K.C.I.E. —the only Australian-
born one—three years later. He is retir-
ing at the end of the year.
Exit at 80 James Lang Campbell, J.,
one of the handsomest and most incisive
Justices of the N. S. Wales Supreme
Court Bench. Scottish-born, Campbell
began his life’s work in the A.J.S. Bank.
He was called to the Bar at 30, and for a
time was secretary to N. S. Wales
Attorney-General B. R. Wise. He
specialised in finance, but his best-known
brief was in tKe Liguori case, which he
conducted at a time when he was in-
volved in several other leading cases.
A lucid advocate with the gift of mak-
ing issues clear, he shone even better as
a Judge. Many times a royal commis-
sioner, he inquired into the N. S. Wales
mining industry, into the price of Syd-
ney gas, into the Greycliffe disaster.
After he retired from the Bench in 1929
the Queensland Government appointed
him to investigate the affairs of Mun-
gana. In his years of leisure the classics
and the Boys’ Brigade were his hobbies.
Gone west in Sydney W. G. Cooper,
once of the Royal Marine Artillery and
a soldier of Mons. He was a sergeant-
major with the heavy howitzers at Dun-
kirk, and was with the big guns during
the Zeebrugge raid. Latterly he was
N. S. Wales treasurer of the Royal
Marines’ Old Comrades’ Association.
Sydney University’s tenth chancellor,
Mungo MacCallum, has retired. He suc-
ceeded William Cullen, an Illawarra
native, who rose to be N.S.W. Chief Jus-
tice and Lieutenant-Governor. Another
Australian, Justice Halse Rogers, who
has been deputy-chancellor for several
years, succeeds MacCallum. An old
Newington boy, Halse Rogers took his
B.A. in 1905 and, elected N.S.W. Rhodes
scholar, graduated B.C.L. at Oxford. He
became a K.C. 10 years ago and a puisne
Judge two years later. He has been on
the University senate since 1929.
Australian agriculture suffered a heavy
loss by the death of Anthony Brunskill.
He was the doyen of modern-type
farmers, one of the first to urge the value
of pasture improvement and the arch-
apostle of fodder conservation. His
silage methods put him on Easy-street,
and his advice and help put many a
youngster on the road to the same com-
fortable address. The Brunskill Allonby
station was one of the show places of
the Riverina. The Duke of Gloucester
visited it.
Lusby has done his worst with E. E.
V. Brown who went to school with the
late S. H. Prior at Brighton (S.A.),
and soon after-
wards made, for the
Northern Terri-
tory. Fifty - eight
years of the dread-
ful Darwin climate
have left their
marks on him, and
he is now only about
three feet through
and seven feet
wide, all hard flesh
and muscle. For
all practical pur-
poses he has lost
the names he was
given at baptism,
and the Territory
knows him as
“Man” Brown.
Contact with the
Chinese, about
whose affairs he
knows more than
any other man in
the North, has
“MAN” BROWN comes to town.
given him an air of Oriental authority.
Just now he is taking a very rare holiday
in the South. He has made good, and
has no grouches about poverty of Dar-
win resources.
W. S. Robinson, who is paying a visit
to his native land, is one of the best-
known Australians in London. Once
mining editor of Melbourne Age, he
graduated into finance with the Baillieus.
To-day he is their British g.m. and a
director of most of the concerns in which
they are interested.
Westralians were astonished when they
read that Newton Moore, their former
Premier and Agent-General, left only
£61,000; they always thought he was
worth a lot more. But that is only the
English estate. Moore didn’t dispose of
all his Australian interests when he left
the Commonwealth.
“El V.”: History works out in strange
ways. When the American War of Inde-
pendence broke out an Eden was Gover-
nor and virtually uncrowned king of
Maryland (U.S.A.). The colonists put an
end to his “kingship,” and the only com-
pensation he got was a baronetcy “of
Maryland,” awarded when he returned to
England. His descendant in the British
Ministry is Anthony Eden, Foreign
Secretary. The family newspaper of the
Edens is the “Yorkshire Post” —Anthony
came to Australia as the representative
of its proprietary at an Imperial Press
Conference in 1925 —and it was the
“Yorkshire Post” which first among
British newspapers tackled the Mrs.
Simpson affair, and started a “back to
Maryland” movement for one of the
little U.S.A. State’s citizens.
Ranked by Melbourne artist Harold
Herbert among the great cartoonists of
the day, Ray Whiting has been a Bulle-
tin contributor since he was a fourth-
form Melbourne Grammar boy. He was
to have gone abroad in February with
Ken Tuckfield, a young Melbourne actor
who achieved recent success in the title
role of Gregan McMahon’s “Richard of
Bordeaux,” but this 20-year-old has just
signed a contract with the Firm to appear
in “Wild Violets,” opening in Melbourne
on Boxing Day. Whiting gave up acting
for art, and Tuckfield is deserting a law
course for the stage.
“X.”: The first Australian to take a
doctor’s degree in engineering is E. J.
Warlow Davies, Tasmanian Rhodes
scholar, who has been in residence at
Corpus Christi College, Oxford. Lately
he has been doing research work at the
Royal Aircraft Establishment at Farn-
borough (Eng.).
Mrs. Simpson’s cicerone, Lord Brown-
low, is a Cust, and the Custs have been
the faithful friends and associates of
royalty for generations. They derive
from a Lincolnshire M.P. whom Charles
II. made a baronet, and the present
holder of the title
rejoices in the
names of Peregrine
Francis Adelbert,
Both he and his
father served in
the European war
—the son with the
Grenadiers. One
member of the
family married a
U.S.A. widow, a
Haggerty of St.
Louis; another
chose an Austra-
lian, a daughter of
G. S. Hepburn, of
Smeaton (V i c.);
another’s pick was
a daughter of Wil-
liam Jervois, once
Governor of S.A.
and M.L., and ad-
viser on defence to
Australian Govern-
m e n t s in the
’eighties ; yet another linked himself with
the family of the Earls of Darnley, of
whom a recent scion, cricketer Ivo Bligh,
married Florence Morphy, of Beech-
worth (Vic.).
“Hamer”: Hugh Latimer, elected a
Macquarie-street M.L.C., revives a long
family political history. His
W. F. Latimer, represented Woollahra
(Sydney) so long as M.L.A. that he
seemed a permanent fixture. W.F. was
longer in municipal politics even than in
State politics, and holds the Woollahra
Council record for office as Mayor.
Hugh stepped into his shoes when he
retired, and he also has been mayor of
the municipality for more than one
term.
John Macmillan, managing director of
the Shaw Savill and Albion line, which
pioneered the Maoriland shipping trade,
and of the Aberdeen and Commonwealth
line, is in Australia on company busi-
ness. Pacific shipping has had an un-
happy time in the last few years, but
JOHN MACMILLAN, a shipping visitor.
Macmillan is a philosopher and an opti-
mist in keeping with the spirit of his
company, which acquired the Common-
wealth’s passenger lines a few years ago.
Whenever he is faced with a problem he
solves it conjointly with a pipe, without
which he is like a ship without a funnel.
Sydney Cockerell, who has just
arrived in Australia, has had closer asso-
ciation with British literature and literary
figures than most men. In his youth he
was secretary to William Morris, and he
was a literary executor of Morris, Wil-
fred Scawen Blunt and Thomas Hardy.
His association with the Kelmscott Press
in its heyday lasted for six years. He is
now director of the Fitzwilliam Museum,
London, which houses one of the finest
art collections in the Empire. He was
knighted in 1934.
P. L. Hart, chosen to inquire into
charges made by Hughes, M.L.A. for East
Perth, is a solid son of one of the oldest
of Queensland legal families. Called to
the Bar in 1898, he is an old-time mem-
ber of the Queensland Board of legal
examiners, and is one of the few mem-
bers of the outer Bar who has acted on
the Supreme Court Bench. He takes an
active part in the affairs of the Church
of England, and has been Chancellor
of the Brisbane Diocese.
Dr. A. Freyberg, who becomes
Queensland State Health Officer, over-
came what anyone would expect to be
a fatal handicap to a doctor; in 1934
he met with a motor accident and his
right hand was amputated. He gave up
his job, went to Sydney University and
took diplomas in public health and tropi-
cal medicine, and trained himself to write
with his left hand. Originally a Mel-
bourne University graduate, he was a
resident at Brisbane General Hospital
for some time. He is in his early
thirties.


Practical Gifts
Worthy of Conveying Your Xmas Wish
NOCK ®. KIRBY’S
417-421 also 188-194 A GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
NOCK & KIRBY’S
42 pee. Canteen Cutlery
i i-iiiir
ililir
Weekly
Economy
Payments
1/9
<
Down
Payment
Small
James Dixons Nickel Silver Spoons and
Forks and mirror finished Sheffield Stain-
less Dessert and Table Knives. Packed
in Velvet lined Jacobeon Oak Cabinet
CASH
PRICE
55-
NOCK & Kin NT'S
Advance” Bicycle
Models from
£5 17 6
Model de Luxe
POPULAR
ROADSTER
(as illustrated )
CASH PRICE
£615-
Weekly
Economy
Payments
3-
• Small Down
Payment
Australian-built from the best parts that Britain can produce 9 Full
size 28in. wheel 0 22in. Frame, Williams Chain Wheel and Cranks
• Adjustable Handles, with rubber grips 9 "Onward" English Saddle
9 Dunlop Tyres 9 Free Wheel 9 Back Wheel Caliper Brake • Pump
• Tool Bag 9 Tools 9 and Bell.
Other Models _1 £7/17/6. £B/5/-, £B/15/-, £lO/2/6
"ERNIE" GREIG, record holder of the Lithgow to Bathurst and
return race, will help you select your "Advance" Bicycle and advise you
on all Cycling matters at Nock & Kirby's 417-421 George Street Store.
NOCK & KI HOY'S
“B r h p xj”
X) .& fi v ITI Electric Refrigerators
he
ci
All Steel
Imported Model
4.5
Cubic
Feet
Capacity.
CASH PRICE
from
£52'10'
Weekly
Economy
Payments ,
from
10'-
There is a steady increasing demand for this pleasing designed,
practical, and compact "Beach" Refrigerator, which establishes
new standards in QUICK FREEZING—and convenience. In-
vestigate the following features at either of Nock & Kirby's
Stores: Super-Speed Frost Chamber —an exclusive "Beach"
feature provides more storage space and assures greater
freezing speed at lower cost — Jiffy Jar Set, for convenience
and practical storage of left overs— All Metal Construction with
Contratherm Insulation —assures longer life and better perform-
ance.
(As illustrated, 7.25 cubic ft. Capacity. CASH PRICE £72/10/-)
NOCK & KIRBY’S
Imported Glassware
K
Graceful shapes with Black and Red design for
modern Table Settings.
Only a few of the many beautiful shapes available in this
Decorated Imported Glassware are illustrated above—see special
display at either store. Half-pint Tumblers, per dozen, 15/-;
two-pint Jugs, each, 7/6; Cocktail Glasses, per dozen, 18/-;
Sherry or Port Wine Glasses, per dozen, 16/-; Decanters, each,
12/6; Peach Melbas, per dozen, 12/-.
NOCK & KIRBY’S
‘Housemaid’
ELECTRIC VACUUM
CLEANER
De Luxe 3fo<lel
Writ©
for
Illustrated
Leaflet
Weekly
Economy
Payments
46
• Small Doivn Payment
K
&
Motor Driven
notary Brush
The Powerful Suction-
Beating-Sweeping action of
this improved Model speed-
ily removes every particle
of dirt . . . Easy Control
. . . with 24 feet length of
flex . . . Call and see a
demonstration.
Usually £ll/11/.
Cash Price
£917 6
(Fittings £l/17/6
extra).
2VOCK & KIRBY'S
16-piece Gold Glaze Coffee
Set.
The unique highly-glazed gold finish of
this thin China Coffee Set will not
tarnish. A gift worthy of conveying
your Xmas wish.
Nock & Kirby’s Special
Price, Set
/
/ m
m
Neat-shape Glass Cocktail Set with pleas-
ing black decoration. One Shaker and
Six Footed Tumblers.
Nock & Kirby’s Special Price,
Seven Pieces
21/'
fl
New Tail-shape Lager Set, comprising
Jug and Six Footed Tumblers. Available
in Amber, Green or Crystal.
Nock & Kirby’s Special Price,
Seven Pieces
16/6


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hostile Hostess”: Glad to see Miles
Franklin in All That Swagger give a
knock to that too open-handed hospitality
of the bush that almost invariably falls
on overworked womenfolk. I think Abo.
Councillors will agree that, in general,
Dad is far more hospitable than his
womenfolk ; he doesn’t have to do any
of it. The average’farm woman, put
on her mettle as a caterer when some
buyer, agent or other townie lobs along,
rises to the occasion as though she
thought the whole, pack of them were
used to nothing less than Menzies’ pub.
And do they rush to return the compli-
ment when Mr. and Mrs. Hayseed come
to town? Not that you would notice. I
offer up three cheers for the motor if
only because it takes some of the casual
humming callers on their way before
mealtimes.
* * * *
“H.S.G.”: The stockman who rides
without leggings is usually found in the
cow-cockying country. Why he prefers
sticky, sweaty trouser-legs has always
been a mystery to me. The real Mackay
from the inland stations invariably wears
his concertinas or the two-buckle, spring
variety with “laughin’-side” boots and
huge, steel spurs. A real overlander in
full war-paint riding through a coastal
dairying town would excite queries
among the kids as to where the circus
was camped ; but the dairy-hand going
out west and appearing at the stockyard
in working boots and small-rowelled
“hooks” would be laughed into sensible
gear. As for a real stockman without a
whip, he’d feel as helpless as a ’roo-
shooter minus his rifle.
* * * *
“G.M.”: A lot of nonsense is still
written about the speed of kangaroos.
I have hunted all sorts of ’roo, and I
have not yet seen one that my mount
could not give, a hundred yards’ start
in open country and head in a half-mile —
and I have never used a horse for kan-
garoo-chasing that was fast enough to
win a country hack race. I’ll admit that
once or twice I have thought differently
about this last, but that is another story,
and a sad one, which I would fain forget.
* * * *
“H 20”: That fodder without soil
about which current papers are making
such a fuss is no new thing. Some 40
years ago A. J. Baxendell, then a school-
master at Toowoomba (Q.), voyaged
to England and took a wallaby with him.
He provided the animal with greens all
the way across, with the aid of a liberal
supply of watercress seed and a flat
bowl which he used to fill about half-
way with water. He spread flannel over
the bowl, letting the middle of it sag
to the surface, and on it scattered the
seed. As a pupil of his school, after his
return from England, I saw him repeat
the process to demonstrate to us nippers
just how he managed to take his wal-
laby mate on the big trip.
* * * *
“Adt”: What is the highest price ever
offered for a single nip? This is my
nomination. I was managing Austral
Downs (Barkly Tablelands) when the
late Tom Sullivan, who had helped a
mate slay a few bottles along the road,
came along with a £2B cheque and a
thirst. Though I always was a con-
firmed wowser, I always had grog on the
station, and Tom knew it. He offered
to buy a nip. (Never mind what I told
Tom.) He raised his price. I raised my
voice. Finally he pulled out the station
cheque and offered it for one nip.
Nothin’ doin’. His last offer was the
cheque, two horses, pack- and riding-
saddle, a gun and all his plant'. That
lot was for one nip. I turned away and
left him. Later he came up to the office,
asked for a nip, as a white man should,
and got it. Poor old Tom met his death
at Boulia. He took a bottle to his camp,
and to cool it off tied a string to it and
threw it into the waterhole. The string
broke, and Tom dived for the bottle.
The coroner called it “accidentally
drowned.’’
* * * *
“Kenyu”: On Boorowa Creek
(N.S.W.), 20 miles above the town of the
same name, there is a big white gum in
a flourishing condition, though com-
pletely divorced from its roots. Ring-
“Me big medicine man."
“Good! Happen to have an asp'rin on you?"
barked many years ago, its limbs inter-
lace with those of another white gum,
and the trees have grafted on to each
other about 15ft. from the ground. A
few branches have died, but living white
bark covers most of the rung tree right
down to the ringbarking, so the sap actu-
ally flows in the opposite direction to
that it used to take. The roots must
have been dead for a long time, as the
live trunk above the scarf is nearly twice
the diameter of the original stump below.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: No need to go to
giant Torres kingfish to lose fingers (B.
2/12/’36). The neatest job of the kind I
have seen was the work of a 51b. tailer
caught on a spoon at Tewantin (Q.). The
fisherman was a new hand and before
he could be stopped tried to remove the
engorged hook with his finger. The
shearlike jaws took off the top joint
as cleanly as any surgeon could, and
thereafter the sportsman followed the
example of his mates and used a hook
extractor.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: “Hanko’s” casual citizen
who used the deceased snake as a liga-
ture (B. 25/11/’36) was a screaming
alarmist compared with Mara, of Badu,
Torres Strait. Carrying a dead death-
adder Mara approached a group of visit-
ing scientists, and announced that he had
been bitten by a “poisoned snake,
exhibiting the twin punctures as
evidence. All known remedies were
applied, and Mara was walked up and
down. When no change occurred after
several hours he was questioned as to
the circumstances and hour of the bite,
and by pantomimic gestures directed at
the sun he indicated that he had been
bitten the previous afternoon. To
astounded demands as to why he
not reported earlier, he explained, Be-
cause, bawss, me bin sleep.”
* * * *
“Wanderer”: Rivals of “Barangkali’s”
Japanese fish that have learned to asso-
ciate the pealing of a bell with dinner-
time (B. 11/11/ ’36) are the goldfish in
the Roman baths at Bath (Eng.). They
have learned to pull a string when they
are hungry ; at the pull a bell rings and
a small platform tilts and tips their
tucker into the water.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Not all the big mass-
acres of aboriginals were the work of
transplanted English, Scotch and Irish,
as “Currency Lad” (B. 25/II / ’36) sug-
gests. One of a few I know of was the
killing of about 100 abos. to avenge the
spearing of “Johnnycake” Miller's mate
in far s.-w. Q., back in the ’eighties.
Real dyed-in-the-wool native-born Aus-
tralians were responsible for that mass-
acre —to wit, the black police.
# * # *
“Kriz”: Old Charlie the shell-opener
always did have a ready answer. Dirty
water forced us into a creek, and when
the tide went out, leaving the luggers on
their sides, we adjourned to a rude shel-
ter high up on the foreshore. There
Charlie held forth: “Here’s an industry
second to none in the world. You can’t
tell me anything that’s wasted in con-
nection with it. The shell’s used for
buttons, knife-handles and a hundred
other things. Inferior shell is carved up
into ornaments. Even the broken shell
is used to make good garden paths. The
fish inside the shell is used. Don’t the
cook make good soup from it, and don’t
our Koepangers get a few extra quid for
dryin’ and baggin’ it from the Chinks
ashore?” “What becomes of the smell?”
someone asked. “Well, even that’s not
wasted,” replied Charlie. “Ain’t it a
change from the aroma of the crew?”
* * * *
“Showman”: Westralian jarrah is sud-
denly getting quite a boost in England.
The pier at Worthing was recently re-
decked with it, and the trucks which
delivered the timber were decorated with
signs telling everyone just what it was.
Photographs were taken of the job and
broadcast freely by a press agency.
Looks as if someone has awakened to
jarrah’s value at last.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: Geordie was selling up
his happy home, wife having eloped
with the star boarder. The furniture
was going at prices which made Geordie
groan every time the auctioneer’s
hammer fell. At last everything had
gone except a cedar wardrobe which had
failed to draw a bid Geordie approached
the last, lingering dealer and asked him
to put a price on it ‘Nothing doing,”
said the dealer, its no good to me
at any price. Look at that bottom
drawer ; the white-ants have got into
it.” Then Geordie held a Dutch auction
on his own Ten bob he said Five
bob? Half a dollar? Finally m
desperation: Oh well, you can have
it for nothing Take it away. That s
all very well, said the dealer gloomily;
‘but who s going to pay for the cartage?
After further argument, Geordie paid—
half a crown. Geordie has not been the
same man since he heard that the dealer
cut out the ant-eaten drawer, substituted
varnished deal, and sold the genuine old
cedar wardrobe for a fiver!
*
“Jerry B. : Oddest death Ive ever
witnessed was that of a carpet-snake, 14ft.
longs which I d caught and put into a
beer-barrel. Wanting to let him out for
a run and not caring to get hold of
him with my hands, I got a grip on his
neck with a pair of tongs. That was
the end of it. He instantly coiled him-
self around the handles and choked him-
self to death,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Don’t be too anxious
to christen a black foal—it’s an even
chance he’ll finish up a grey. No white
horse was ever born that color. If a foal
has a dash of white through his coat you
can bet he’s a bay. The white horse was
a black foal; the color changes before
he’s two years old, which is why so many
greys respond to Darkie, Jet or some
equally inappropriate name. With old
age the grey almost invariably develops
lumps that sometimes necessitate an
operation. It’s just the accumulation in
the skin of the pigment, which was some-
how diverted from its proper function,
* * * *
“Übet”: Most of the eccentricities
“Top Rail” attributes to beekeepers (B.
25/11 /’36) follow the adoption of their
lively occupation. Nine people out of
ten feel pretty groggy after a few bees
have had ago at them. You couldn’t
get any sense out of one bee-merchant
j knew up Rochester way (Vic.) for a
couple of hours after he’d been at the
hives. He’d be as deaf as a post. He
p U t ff down to the effect of the stings.
At other times he was quite normal.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “Murrungurry’s” drover
w h Q enticed his thirsty and sulky sheep
on by letting water drip from holes
bored in casks (B. 25/II /’36) certainly
showed initiative, but he was blessed
with, a lot of luck. Once, sheep “pig ’
and stick-up it’ll usually take an earth-
quake to shift them. I’ve known them
to die in a paddock corner rather than
travel with the wind to a waterhole close
handy at which they’d been watering
for months. I’ve also seen sheep, days
without a drink, refuse to make the
slightest attempt to slake their thirsts at
a waterhole or trough strange to them,
A mule is a perfect gentleman c- upared
with a sulky sheep.
RIVER ROAD.
The road beside the river, the old, old willowed
way,
Lies hid between the sheltering hills,
And roams where sudden, glistering rills
Rush from the mossy slopes, and trees
Rock lightly in the valley breeze.
The straight road from the station, a highway
dusty-brown,
Will bring you to the pine-tree bend,
And you may look on journey’s end,
Set like the fane of some old tale
Far down the misty, murmuring vale
There is no lack of company along the river
road,
For should you shun your fellow-men
There’s friendliness of field and fen,
Tire mellow calls of mating birds,
The lowing of the browsing herds.
There’s song of water and of wind, the drone
of bees a-wing,
But if so be you’ll none of these
I here march the tall and gracious trees,
Who speak with rustle of green boughs
When through the bush the sea-wind soughs.
But all who pass, alone or twain, along the river
road
Look yearningly when dusk is nigh
To where the friendly smoke curls high,
To little homes with open doors
And firelight on the shining floors.
So dark the night of solitude upon the river
road,
The swagman sheds his load and lies
Beneath the starry, spacious skies,
The quiet land in toil’s release
Drinks the deep benison of peace.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“The 0.D.”: Aboliars to the rescue!
Unless I can prove by Saturday that a
snake digs its own hole, the drinks are
on me. I rushed into the argument, then
was unable to recall ever having seen
friend Blake in the excavating act. Any-
one actually seen it?
=l= *
“Squid”: Pallida Mors scored again
at Taronga Zoo when the widowed octo-
pus pere whose wife lately presented
him with 250,000 infants and left him
to look after them threw in his marble
at the prospect. One Sydney journal
says he died of a broken heart, which is
what one would expect from the flapper
press. Deceased was given an appro-
priate funeral, being served for supper
to the lady seal which recently produced,
not 250,000, but one lone infant.
* * * *
“A.G.P.”: What aperture can’t a snake
draw its body through? The daughter
of an Ermington (N.S.W.) household
spotted the head of one protruding from
the grid of the kitchen waste-water
sink and called father, who, with a pair
of tongs, drew a sft. sin. black joker
from the pipe. All through a slot barely
iin. wide!
* * * *
“Chelaka”: Another vegetable guaran-
teed to give a good pyrotechnic display
is the pandanus. This palm is very in-
flammable, highly dangerous to light in
heavily timbered country. I knew a
newchum who lit one “to see what
would happen.” Within 10 minutes he
was galloping towards the safety of the
Howard River with a roaring fire at his
heels. Fifty square miles of territory
was burnt out before a deluge fell that
saved an equivalent area and a big
homestead.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: I once read that a mis-
sionary, circulating on the small South
Sea Island where he was stationed, scat-
tered orange pips in likely places, re-
sulting in many and wonderful orange-
groves. An old identity of Coff’s Harbor
(N.S.W.) has an equally humanitarian
record, though, according to him, “look-
ing after Number One” was his principal
concern. A fisherman, sailing up and
down the Queensland coast for years, he
invariably, when visiting an uninhabited
island or lonely spot on the mainland,
plants tomatoes. “For,” says he, “you
never know ; I might be wrecked in this
very place one day, and the tomatoes’ll
come in handy.”
* * * *
“Kali”: A little thought would have
exonerated Joe Blake from any sus-
picions of guilt arising from the dis-
appearance of that' cream (B. 11/11/’36),
for, though Joe finds no difficulty in
swallowing quite respectably large solids
such as eggs, birds or even a young
rabbit, he is soon filled to capacity with
non-solids. About 2oz. of milk is enough
to hoist the house-full sign.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The nesting magpie is
generally handed the belt for all-in scrap-
ping, but I nominate the blue-kingfisher
as the best catch-weight fighter in
feathers. On the bank of a creek near
Yerranderie (N.S.W.) I saw one hand
it out to 4ft. 6in. of goanna that had
approached the happy home. Kingie led
with a beautiful straight peck to the
nose, retired, came back with a clink-
ing eye-waterer and then another. At
that, go. decided that the eggs were
probably rotten anyway.
“Be that blacksmith shop? Id' Want a bit of three-quatter round iron,
'bout two foot long, with one end bent like this."
“Colon”: Lack of a bottle-oh cut-
ting out one source of pocket money, a
country youngster I know has turned
to the natural resources of his district.
He hunts snakes, leaves them on an ant-
bed until only the bones remain, dips
the, skeletons strung together —in
enamel and sends them to a Melbourne
jeweller, who responds with seven and
six a snake. Wired and fitted with
clasps they sell as ' “lucky snake neck-
laces.”
* * * *
“Nimau”: “Yes,” said Dugan, “old
man Wheeler was always growling about
the way I did the work on the farm, but
I got me own back on him before I left.
He told me to go and kill and dress a
sheep or two and keep going till he came
down to see how I was getting on. He
didn’t come down for 20 minutes and I
had 16 strung up by that time. Y’see, I
happen to be a slaughterman by trade.”
* * * *
“Country Ped”: Bitten on the. foot by
a bull-ant a man at Mt. Macedon (Vic.)
died half an hour later. This has made me
windy of another devil of an ant called
in the sandy districts
of southern Vic.,
where it abounds,
the “jack-jumper.”
About half an inch
long and of a metal-
lic blackish-purple
color, it moves in a
series of spurts
alternated by sudden
jumps forward of
about an inch. When
it bites it drives
into the flesh both
its tail part and its
pincer jaws. Imme-
diately the bitten
part puffs up to the
size of a sixpence,
and the spot will itch
for days. Recently
I received two bites
on the ankle, which
12 hours later sud-
denly swelled, and,
though I tried
various remedies, I
was lame for a week. Another chap col-
lapses immediately on being bitten, and
is out for some minutes, although he
suffers no further ill-effects.
* * * *
“Paul C.”: “C.H.F.’s” cocky who
told him he kept rabbits out of a field of
luxuriant feed by fastening tar-soaked
twine to stakes round the rich pasture.
(B. 11/11/’36) must be the same cove
who told me he never feared camping
out in the most snake-infested places,
because, when he spread his blanket, he
always tied a string soaked in whisky to
pegs round his roost. He assured me
that the only discomfort he ever suf-
fered was being kept awake most of
the night by the noise of the. quarrelling
and scuffling serpents. On reaching the
soaked string they’d fall to sucking it,
and he’d always find them lying dead
drunk round the circle in the morning,
sleeping it off. I believed him, too, like
“C.H.F.”
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: A curious sight occasion-
ally encountered in the Groperland bush
is a travelling colony of tree, frogs. About
the size of an ordinary swamp “bully,”
these hoppers at first sight appear to be
wearing gloves, the tip of each finger
and toe being spread to a perfect pad
sucker which enables the frogs to cling
even to the thin, varnished leaves of
“Take no notice, lad — she's on'y man-untin
eucalypts. Travelling quickly from twig
to twig and leaf to leaf these hoppers
have the early doors on grubs and tree-
frequenting insects, but with only limited
concealment they in turn fall a compara-
tively easy prey to predatory birds. In
fact, it is highly probable that the Jacks,
alien to W.A., are rapidly wiping the
species out.
“Tadpolinius”: “Paul C.” (B.
18/11/ ’36) explains the difference between
the toad and the frog very nicely. But
has he ever seen an Australian toad?
Have heard it asserted by high scientific
authority that such does not exist, all
our frogs being strictly frogs, although
several varieties closely approximate to
the true toad form.
* * * *
“Drayton”: That par. re Mallee dust
(B. 25 /11 / ’36) reminds me. In the years
that the palmer worm and his friends
have got away with inhabitants of Bris-
bane were able at once to identify any
visitor from Toowoomba, especially the
flapper variety. In those days the girlies
wore voluminous white petties edged
with lace inches deep. Once tinged with
the crimson hematite dust of Too-
woomba not all the arts of a chemist
could clean the stains from the garments,
a faint pink flush always remaining.
Males wearing linen or flannel trousers
were also easy of identification, and the
confidence lads at Exhibition time found
no trouble in placing a visitor from the
top of the Range.
* * * *
“F.Y.7” takes ’em all on:
“Sea Grape” fences with the question (B.
2/12/’36) when she tries to refute my conten-
tion that it was preposterous to say that in the
old days most women rode horses in men’s
saddles. She admits that she and her friends
rode side-saddle fashion and used men’s saddles
only because they had no others, which is right
away from the original contention of “Poley,”
who started the argument that women of those
days rode man-fashion in men’s saddles lor
choice. “S.G.” makes much of wrung withers
and girth galls due to side-saddles. These are
as commonly a product of the ordinary stock
saddle as of any side-saddle, and are always
due to the same cause, carelessness and neglect
on the part of the loafer to whom the un-
fortunate nag has been entrusted.
To “Poley” (B. 2/12/’36) I would say that
1 have probably had as long experience of
horses as he has had, an experience beginning
in western Queensland in the middle ’seventies,
when I owned my first nag, and continuing in
many countries under varied circumstances until
a few years ago. Like him, I can call on my
womenfolk of those early days as witnesses, and
I repeat my assertion that a woman in a man’s
saddle was in those times as rare as a com-
pletely truthful politician to-day. Indeed,
“Poley” admits this by his changed tune, con-
fessing his mother and other women of the time
rode in side-saddles, something no one would
have guessed from his original paragraph. In
conclusion, don’t blame the side-saddle for sore
backs. Human slackness and laziness are
always the cause.
* * * *
“Abbey Angler”: The “stews” men-
tioned as attached to old-time abbeys
(B. 18/11/’36) were mostly for the
cleansing of fish. Such fresh-water
species as carp and tench, being largely
vegetarian in diet and living mostly on
lily roots and aquatic grasses, have when
freshly caught a most unappetising muddy
flavor. To eliminate this they were
placed for a week or so in a stevV, with
a gentle current for preference, which
caused them to undergo a thorough in-
ternal cleansing. Starved at first to assist
the process, they were given a final fat-
tening on breadcrumbs or even sweet
biscuit, which brought them to grace the
abbot’s table as a dish fit for an epicure,
Twenty-pound carp are marketed by a
similar process in Central Europe to this
day.
SEPARATING.
In the shed it’s one long hustle—yard the cows
up, leg-rope, bustle
Round the chaffroom, mix the feeds up, get
them fed!
What with rugging and with feeding, or a
drench some cow is needing,
It’s a rest to start to separate instead.
Droning out its low refrain, round and round
and round again,
Gurgling milk a-flow;
Then the pleasant golden gleam as the cream
begins to stream
To the can below.
You forget your morning troubles as the pale
milk froths and bubbles,
All the worries that were yours since you
began;
And your thoughts slip round completely to a
girl who smiled so sweetly,
As the cream creeps slowly rising up the can,
Pouring out its mellow song. Now it won’t
be very long,
If the season’s good.
Up and down and round again, brand-new
bails and milkers twain,
If we only could!
For the can is filling, filling, and, with butter-
fat a shilling,
There’s another lease of life to be begun.
Ah, if dreams were not so fickle, for the milk’s
a waning trickle.
Where’s the water? For the separating’s
done.
Humming out a new refrain as the speed begins
to wane,
While the pigs are fed;
Dreaming time its hour has run, toil before you
take your fun—
Lots .of work ahead!
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


THE LODESTAR
GALLERY,
77 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney
(next to Carlton Hotel),
A Permanent Exhibition of Twentieth Century
Paintings by Leading Australian Artists,
Including Will Ashton. D. Dundas, Elioth Gruner.
Lloyd Rees. Roi de Mestre, .T. D. Moore. Adelaide
Perry, Margaret Preston. Thea Proctor, Arnold''Shore,
Maud Sherwood, Joseph Connor. Roland Wakelin,
Mary Edwards.
Hours: It a.m.—G p.m. Stella Seroggie, Director.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox. Iv. <le L. Cudmore,
R. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
all or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
A Present
with a Future!...
By giving—
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
this Christmas, you will start your children, nephews and nieces and other young people on the
road to sound’ investment. In one simple transaction, you buy for them an interest in 20
prosperous Australian companies, the pick of those listed on ’Change. Income distributed twice a
rear. At 21/9 per Sub-unit (the price on December 11), the YIELD is £4/17/4 per £lOO
based on the income received during the past year. (Dividends, £3/19/5; Bonuses and
Sale of Rights, 17/11.) Here’s a wonderful way for you, also, to end your investment worries!
Full details from: Any Member of tlie Stock Exchange; The Custodian Trustees:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney; or
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Telephone: 85294. 8-14 Bond Street, Sydney. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
SECURITy
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Textiles (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 8,968 Nil 1,515
Unexplained reduction, £125 .. .. 1,390
1932.. 1,337 Nil 53
Profit.
1933.. 21,768 5 p.c. = 14,759 7,009 7,062
Unexplained reduction, £282 .. .. 6,780
1934.. 9,733 8f p.c. = 11,028 5,485
1935.. 17,624 5 ~ „ 14,704 2,920 8,405
Unexplained reduction, £73 .. .. 8,332
1936.'. 12,513 Nil 12,5,13 20,845
During the last few years, selling pres-
sure exerted by retailers and expansion
of consumer credit through cash-order
houses and otherwise have helped to
stimulate demand for textiles. Still, other
factors, chiefly variations in the price of
wool and the course of competition, have
caused fluctuations in the earnings of
manufacturers, especially those whose,
shock-absorbers in the way of reserves
have been unable to stand much of a jolt.
Lately, there have been indications that
much of the short buying of clothing,
etc., during the depression period has
been overtaken. Because of this and
other things, a flattening-out in the
general upward trend of consumer de-
mand can be expected.
During the last term this co.’s mills
—there is one at Albury, another at
Orange and a third at Goulburn —were,
kept well occupied during the first half.
But there was a “considerable” decrease
in the amount of business offering dur-
ing the second half; and, of course,
competition sharpened. Gross earnings
(£30,053) fell away £6095. Exes.
(£17,540) were reduced by £984, leaving
the net result £5lll lighter at 4.2 p.c.
on capital as against 5.9, 3.3 and 7.4 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. Since the
year’s net earnings and more besides
were invested in stocks (up £28,866) when
the books closed, and since, orders for
the coming season are “not nearly so
great as they were 12 months ago,” the
board considered it “prudent to defer
declaration of a dividend until a later
period, when, if circumstances warrant,
a recommendation will be made and
shareholders called together.” Much
will depend upon the extent to which
the co. is able to reduce and upon
the course of manufacturers’ selling
prices and the price of raw wool.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1929. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £449,481 £293,426 £294,079 £294,179
Overdraft .. 69,625 58,877 50,700 66,020
Sundry creditors 11,161 17,533 13,819 15,721
Freeholds . . 96,123 81,778 83,085 83,265
Plant, etc. . . 223,808 120,559 93,722 84,869
Fittings .. 1,129 859 714 692
Stocks . . 119,571 143,823 158,209 187,075
Book debts .. 35,512 22,213 48,335 42,118
Shares in other
cos. .. 10,000
Cash, etc. .. 2,503 2,243 2,889 1,847
Intangibles . . 81,240 10,517 10,517 10,517
The growth in stocks and reduction of
£6217 in debtors’ balances reflect the
falling off in trade activity. To carry the
extra stocks and pay the previous year’s
div. (5 p.c.) the board went to its bankers
for an extra £15,320 and added £1902 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
On plant £9053 more was written off
than was spent. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£149,299, including stocks) was only
£4385.
Formed in 1923, the co. bought its
fixed assets when prices were at their
highest. Because of this and other
troubles, its prospects looked fairly hope-
less for a while. However, internal dif-
ferences were composed, and £156,105
was lopped off capital in ’29, thus allow-
ing the deadwood to be pruned out of
the accounts. After a 10-year wait and
loss of one-third of their capital, share-
holders got into the picture for the first
time in ’33.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the fully-paid 13s. 4d. shares at
7s. 7d. as against 11s. 3d. a year ago.
The return at 7s. 7d. would be 7 p.c. on
a 4 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 15s. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
r Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 31,060 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 35,560 352,349
1927.. 63,384 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 27,824 380,173
1928.. 47,524 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 15,364 395,537
1929.. 41,455 6 „ 7 „ 25,360 16,095 411,632
1930.. 65,409 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026 414,855
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5 „ 18,560 15,362 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28,731* .. 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 511,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 483,113
♦lncludes profit on sale of Consols.
The Duntroon, the co.’s fine new
10,000-ton passenger-and-cargo motor-
vessel, has given “excellent service” since
she entered the inter-State trade about
a year ago, and the subsidiary, Hobson’s
Bay Dock and Engineering Co., sent
along “a small div.” In the still sick
coal trade, the co.’s interests are confined
to agency and carrying work. It was
the. seamen’s strike that spoiled last year’s
trading results. The board wrote net
earnings £15,488 less than the previous
year’s at £20,244, or enough to pay the
pref. div. (£1560) and show approxi-*
mately 5.5 p.c. on the £340,000 of ord.
capital. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
though it called for £1716 more profit
than was claimed.
That leaves out of the reckoning a net
unexplained reduction of £27,008 in re-
serves (mainly provision for depreciation
and other contingencies, £378,942), which
benefited by unexplained additions total-
ling £28,731 (this included an unspeci-
fied profit on the sale of Consols) in the
previous term. The accumulation of
reserves (the heap was piled £117,113
higher than-paid capital when the books
closed) is largely the result of the sale
of surplus tonnage when prices were
high and of liberal allowances for depre-
ciation, etc., during the boom years.
Since the Duntroon is reputed to have
cost over £400,000, and since the fleet
figures in the. books at cost (£792,409, up
£64,578), appearances are that a sub-
stantial portion of the £378,942 set aside
for depreciation, etc., is genuine profit.
The year’s net unexplained reduction in
reserves may have some connection with
the sale of the Dimboola to Singapore, in-
terests at “a satisfactory figure” early in
the term.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1921. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities .. 128,600 44,760 71,948 133,853
Steamers, etc. 1 , „„ 0 1 414,525 727,831 792,409
Freehold, plant j ( 51,698 54,229 54,521
Stores, etc. . . 38,250 8,031 17,133 26,263
Book debt 3 .. 105,144 57,874 57,565 77,341
I nves tments,
cash . . 365,621 291,633 104,007 43,414
To meet final payments in connection
with the Duntroon, add £9130 to stores,
etc., and carry a further £19,776 of
debtors’ balances, the board drew upon
cash, etc., for £60,593 net and went out-
side for an extra £61,905. The contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£13,165) was £93,592.
Though costs are. showing a tendency
to rise, prospects are for a much better
result at next balance. Profits in the
not-so-immediate future will largely
depend upon the Duntroon’s contribu-
tions to and demands upon earnings. On
the market the ords. fell sharply from
31s. to 265. in October; they have since
recovered to 295., at which figure the
return is 4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Including the depreciation, etc., reserve,
the cover is 48s. sd. in net tangibles. The
well-protected prefs. (there are only
26,000 of them) seldom appear on
’Change.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Nominal
S<pt., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 28,989 12* p.c. = 21,138 7,851 61,377
1927.. 28,757 12* „ „ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. 32,337 12*,, „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 12* „ ~ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1930.. 27,633 12* „ „ 26,423 1,210 81,721
1931.. 25,539 10* „ „ 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932.. 23,125 10 ~ „ 21,138 1,987 88,109
1933.. 25,320 10 „ „ 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935. . 26,688 10 ~ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1936.. 26,586 10 ~ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
It’s a snug business, and has been ever
since the public became interested in
1922, when Brown and Poison’s was ab-
sorbed. The co. is in the wholesale dry-
goods trade, which is a difficult one at
the best of times. It turns out a number
of well-established proprietary lines, and
just before the big break in the markets
it installed a lot of new plant, which
was very helpful in reducing costs just
at a time when they most needed to be
reduced. Since 1922, shareholders have,
had a steady 10 p.c., sweetened with a
2\ p.c. bonus for the half-dozen fat years
to the close of accounts in 1930. Also,
there were some new share issues at par,
which were in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders, the scrip commanding a
high premium in the market.
After setting aside an extra £l5OO for
taxation (£7000) and openly reserving
the usual £5OO for bad debts, there was
little change in last year’s declared net
earnings, which were 11.9 p.c. on capital,
compared with 12.1, 11.8, 11.9, 10.9, 12,
13 and 15.5 p.c. back to 1929. That
leaves out' of last year’s reckoning net
additions of £875 to the insurance ac-
count (£11,660), and £8356 to the re-
serve for contingencies, depreciation, etc.
(£122,254), some or all of which may
be genuine, profit. Including these addi-
tions, the year’s net earnings were £4680
better at £35,817, or 16.1 p.c. on capital.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 535., at which figure the return
is 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 4.5
p.c. should the distribution be raised to
12 p.c. Including the insurance, con-
tingency and depreciation, etc., reserves,
the backing is 355. 4d. in net tangibles—
trade-marks, etc., are valued in the books
at £72,500.
Balance-sheet movements suggest that
trade might have been a little easier
toward the close of accounts:
1Q99 1 QQ«
Paid capital .. .. £128,607 £221,884 £221,884
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 4,451 2,414
Trading debts .. .. 17,351 24,663 23,621
Properties , . .. 66,265 163,123 165,070
Machinery, plant, etc... 59,541 143,913 145,999
Stocks 43,347 76,752 89,507
Book debts .. .. 32,540 32,305 30,164
Cash and sundries . . 5,285 3,984 1,376
A growth of £12,755 in stocks was
accompanied by a contraction of £2141
in debtors’ balances. On fixed assets
£4033 more was spent than was written
off. Including stocks, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£95,012) was £11,085.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
r Dividends —
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 p.c. = 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927.. 39,409 27,790 5* p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 43,715
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4.347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 ~ „ 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21.000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
When it bought control from the Mar-
shalls in 1928 —the co.’s name was then
changed to its present title—Myer Em-
porium, Melbourne, which owns the
£300,000 of ord. capital, set to work to
reorganise and energise the business on
lines similar to those which had proved
successful in the parent’s own State. To
begin with there was a quick clearance
of stocks, and profits almost disappeared
in 1929. Then the premises were re-
modelled, attention was given to manu-
facture of some of the co.’s requirements
locally—Holden’s old. King William-
street freehold was bought to house
some of- the manufactures —and, as con-
ditions improved, the business stepped
along like a thoroughbred.
During the last term there was more
money about, thanks to the rise in ex-
port prices, unemployment continued to
decrease, and, with the help of a vigor-
ous advertising campaign, there was a
marked increase in the co.’s turnover.
The spring in gross earnings (£392,063)
was £45,794. Including an extra £2450
set asjde for the taxgatherer (£15,450),
exes. (£313,835) took £34,671 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result £11,123
better at £78,228. This was enough to
pay the pref. divs. (£27,790) and show
16.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 13.1,
8.4, 6.4, 5.7, 3.4 and 2.1 p.c. back to
1930. The parent was not hungry, so
only a point was added to the div., mak-
ing it 8 p.c. ; the £26,438 that remained
lifted reserves to £120,518.
Continued expansion of the business
is further reflected in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1931. 193!). 1930.
Capital . . £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities , . 307,869 166,047 243,283 316,588
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 495,578 491,852 553,614 580,945
Furniture,
plant, etc... 112,467 112,907 105,666 99,299
Stocks .. 296,240 241,722 284,454 319,058
Book debts . . 158,490 102,924 117,110 162,785
Cash . . . . 5,551 10,351 10,414 16.413
To carry an extra £34,604 of stocks,
£45,625 of book debts, add £5999 to the
cash holding and £27,331 to the book
value of freehold, the co. gathered an
extra £9510 of deposits (£187,481) and a
further £63,795 from its bankers and
others (£129,107). The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£181,618)
was £12,913.
As for the current term, the outlook
is less encouraging than it was a year
ago. Still, the 7 p.c. prefs., in which
the public is interested, are. well pro-
tected. At 275. 6d. the As return 5.1 p.c.,
and the Bs at 255. 7d. yield 5.4 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £8 3s. 6d. and
£2 Bs. 3d. respectively.
Goliath Portland Cement Co., Ltd.
Towards
Net , Dividends — , Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 4,423 Nil Nil 4,423 17,774
8 p.c.
1930.. 15,261 5,292 Nil 9,969 7,805
1931.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 .. .. 32,916
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933.. 28,264 22,894 2* p.c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. .. 19,402
7 p.c.
1934.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 „ ~25,586 9,500 39,372
1936.. 48,202 10,016 12* „ ~21,322 16,864 56,246
The works are at Railton (Tas.), but
the co.’s chief market is in Vic., where
it shares the demand with the Austra-
lian Cement Co. During the last term
there was a further increase in sales,
thanks to lively activity in the build-
ing and constructional trades, and plant
was kept going at or near capacity (about
85,000 tons p.a.), to the benefit of unit
costs. So, despite a cut in selling
prices and reduction of the duty on im-
ported British cement by 50 p.c. in May,
gross earnings (£93,305) were £10,288
better than the previous year’s. Includ-
ing an extra £5OOO set aside for depre-
ciation (£25,000 = 9.2 p.c. of the book
value of freehold and plant at Sept. 30),
(Continued on page 24.)


A SOUND INVESTMENT IN AN ESTABLISHED TRADING COMPANY
(Abridged Prospectus)
STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY LIMITED
(A Company registered under the provisions of the “Companies” Ordinance 1912-26—Papua.)
Nominal Capital - - - - £lOO,OOO
divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
29,811 —7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares, and
24,365 —Ordinary Shares have been subscribed and are fully paid.
DIRECTORS:
Captain Algernon Sydney Fitch
(Managing), Master Mariner and
Company Director, Port Moresby,
Papua.
Llewellyn Tracey, Accountant, Port
Moresby, Papua.
Eric Vivian Crisp, Company Manager,
Samarai, Papua.
BANKERS:
Bank of New South Wales,
Melbourne and Port Moresby.
AUDITOR:
Ernest A. James,
Public Accountant,
Port Moresby, Papua.
SECRETARY IN PAPUA:
Llewellyn Tracey,
Port Moresby, Papua.
SOLICITOR*.
W. Brian Molloy,
Port Moresby, Papua.
SECRETARY:
Miss E. W. Mumford,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Port Moresby,
Papua.
OBJECTS AND EXISTING BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
The Company conducts the business of Ship Owners. Carriers, Transport Agents, Stevedores, Storekeepers, Cocoanut and
Rubber Plantation Owners, Trochus Shell Fishing, Motor Engineering, Mail Contractors and General Agents.
In particular it acts as Agents for the Vacuum Oil Company Proprietary Limited, W. R. Carpenter and Company
Limited (Mail Planes), Royal Packet Navigation Company (Dutch Shipping Line), Yorkshire Insurance Company Limited,
Bankers and Traders Insurance Company Limited, Sawmillers and Traders Company Limited, Cosmopolitan Hotel and Sherwin-
Williams Company (Aust.) Limited, and as Mail Contractors to the Commonwealth Government, the Papuan Government and
the London Missionary Society.
THE UNDERMENTIONED SHARES ARE NOW OFFERED IN STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY LIMITED.
BY
CHURCHILLS LIMITED
(A Company registered under the provisions of the “Companies Acts 1899-1918” New South Wales.)
HEAD OFFICE: Union House, 247 George St., Sydney. BRANCH: Brookman Building, 35 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
REPRESENTATIVES: Sidney Tricklebank Limited, Dilworth Building, Customs St., Auckland.
THE SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR SALE UNDER
THE REGISTERED PROSPECTUS ARE:—
20,189 —7% Cumulative Preference Shares (with further
participating rights as mentioned hereafter) at
28/- per share (premium of 8/- per share).
25,635 —Ordinary Shares at 30/- per share (premium of
10/- per share).
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHARES
The Preference Shares confer upon the holders thereof
the right to a Cumulative Preferential Dividend at the rate
of 7% per annum, ranking equally with Ordinary Shares,
after a similar payment to the latter, up to 10% per annum,
on the capital for the time being paid up on such shares, and
shall rank in a winding-up as regards return of capital and
payment of arrears of dividend down to the commencement
of the winding-up in priority to the Ordinary Shares.
TERMS OF PURCHASE
Preference Shares.
20,189 —7% Cumulative Preference Shares of a nominal
value of £l each are now offered at £l/8/- per
share upon the following instalments: —
7/- per share upon signing the form of direction to
allot.
7/- per share upon notice of allotment by Steamships
Trading Company Limited.
7/- per share within three months of the date of notice
of allotment
7/- per share within six months of the date of notice
of allotment.
Ordinary Shares.
25,635 —Ordinary Shares of a nominal value of £1 each
are now offered at £l/10/- per share upon the
following instalments:—
7/6 per share upon signing the form of direction to
allot.
7/6 per share upon notice of allotment by Steamships
Trading Company Limited.
7/6 per share within three months of the date of
notice of allotment.
7/6 per share within six months of the date of notice
of allotment.
Any purchaser may pay in full for the above shares at
the time of application or other terms not less in amount or
period of time than that stated above.
PROFITS AND SHARE VALUES
The last completed term (30th June, 1936) profits were
equal to 18.8 per cent, on paid capital or 14.5 per cent,
on capital and loan moneys.
The Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1936, indicates
a net asset backing of £2/12/2 per £l preference share.
Eliminating the asset value to an equivalent amount of
preference shares there remains a net asset value of £l/19/4
per ordinary share.
CHURCHILLS LIMITED—ADVISORY BOARD’S
REPORT RE STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY
LIMITED.
The Advisory Board has carefully considered the Certificates,
Balance Sheets and Reports put before Churchills Limited as
the History, Progress and Results of the business of Steamships
Trading Company Limited, and basing their opinion upon such
results they recommend the proposed share issues as attractive
investments with a good prospect of regular dividends.
(Signed) R. WINDEYER,
THEODORE J. MARKS,
Sydney, 12th October, 1936. C. GODFREY HILL.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS OF
THE NEW SOUTH WALES “COMPANIES ACT 1936”
(1) All the requirements of Section 137 of the “Com-
panies Act 1936” (N.S.W.) have not been compile.,
with in this advertisement.
(2) Copies of the full Prospectus and forms of application
for shares may be obtained at the offices or represen-
tatives of Churchills Limited, whose addresses are
given in this advertisement, or at the offices of Steam-
ships Trading Company Limited.
(3) Applications for shares will be received only on one of
the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
(4) This advertisement is an epitome of the Prospectus,
copies of which have been filed with the Registrar-
General for New South Wales, dated at Sydney the
sth day of November, 1936, the Registrar for South
Australia, dated at Adelaide the 26th day of
October, 1936, the Assistant-Registrar of Companies
at Wellington, dated at Wellington, New Zealand,
the 26th day of October, 1936.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT IS INSERTED BY CHURCHILLS
LIMITED, FROM WHOM COPIES OF THE REGISTERED
PROSPECTUS MAY BE OBTAINED UPON APPLICATION,
OR FROM SIDNEY TRICKLEBANK LIMITED, AUCKLAND,
OR STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY LIMITED, PORT
MORESBY AND MELBOURNE.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
W'S "S'"
fM ?•*'”!
mm i iripfi
j- •• MimW* - ->/;■•
.
mm
-mmm
WM
' •■'' ■
m
mm*
m
I
*mmmm*m
'.'lvav.'vX'.'vMv/Xv
Ws.
mm
m
■GX
.
<mm*
' stj
0M
■mmmw. "■ •
mmmm
SAA
•••:■:•
%%22S
"Henry I'll help you
DO IT
STRANGELY enough, it is sometimes the wife who
hinders the husband in his efforts to assure himself
adequately for her protection. She wants to spend
the money on something else; she has an immediate, or
fancied, need, and the difficulties of the future seem a
long way off. Such a wife is always the sufferer in the
end.
The wise wife will urge her husband to assure
himself adequately so that ALL THE FAMILY may be
protected against the “slings and arrows of outrageous
fortune.”
“Henry I’ll help you do it,” she will say, when he
suggests a further A.M.P. policy to lift the mortgage off
the house, or provide the money for a trip to Europe
when they are 50, or to build up a dowry for each of the
daughters. ‘‘l’ll save half the premiums out of my
housekeeping allowance, just to show you that I under-
stand and appreciate what you are doing for me.”
It is in that spirit that men and women acquire
financial comfort and peace of mind.
’Phone, write, or call on the nearest A.M.P. office,
requesting that an experienced adviser be sent to discuss
this matter of ADEQUATE assurance. Probably you
haven’t nearly enough. Do it to-day.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
jC. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN.
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all State*.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Has set and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Buyer of TANTALITE and all classes ores, con-
centrates, metals, LOUT S BURKARD, 250 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Telegram address, “Burkardore.”
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotitfions given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 1935 General
Catalogue. — Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
ARCHIMEDES
OUTBOARDS
(Swedish
Manufacture).
Four first places in
World’s Longest Out-
board Reliability
Races.
All Bronze Under-
water Gear,
Lightweight Utility
Engines, 4 Horse-
power and Up-
wards, at
NELSON & ROBERTSON, Ltd.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
ĸ
exes. (£45,344) were only £7197 heavier.
Allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
the net result sprang £3lOO, reaching
£48,202, or enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 22.2 p.c. on the £170,571 of
ord. capital as against 20.5, 18.1 and 12.8
p.c. for the three preceding terms.
Still, 24 points were clipped off the
bonus sent out' with the 10 p.c. div.,
making 124 p.c. for the year. That was
because the board is uncertain about the
future. The reduced duty on cement im-
ported from the U.K. ceased to operate
from Dec. 1, and competition from
Britain is feared.
The market prices the ords., fully-
paid to 13s. 4d., at 295. 6d. as against
335. a year ago. The return at' 295. 6d.
is 4.2 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div. basis. At
265. the pound prefs. return 5.4 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £2 11s. Bd. pre;.fs.
and 17s. Bd. ords.
Owing to installation of additional
equipment and reconditioning of the old
kiln unit, plant capacity is now 100,000
tons p.a. The allowance for deprecia-
tion was £15,676 more than was spent on
fixed assets: —•
1932. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £367,918 £295,266 £313,663 £313,663
Overdraft . . 39,184 2,896
Sundry creditors 4,263 8,250 9,640 13,883
Freehold, leases,
plant, etc... 358,437 300,390 284,860 269,184
Stocks . . 18,460 22,179 21,813 19,590
Book debts . . 9,666 42,833 71,468 66,732
Cash, etc. . . 145 45 17,099 59,079
Shares in other
cos. . . 14,000 1,900 500 2,000
The cash holding increased by £41,980.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£131,518) was £30,778.
Queensland Government Insurance
The Queensland State Government
Insurance Office, which set up 20 years
ago, trades in Life, Workers’ Compen-
sation, Fire, Marine and General Acci-
dent business, etc. The three depart-
ments first named are the most im-
portant.
For the year to June 30 last £1,177,600
(up £177,219) of new business was put
on the books in the Life branch. The
average per policy was £220 as against
£197 for the previous term. Total in-
come was £19,913 better, of which
£18,712 came from net premiums
(£336,433) and £7686 from interest, etc.
(£134,889). Consideration for annuities
(£6150) was £6485 lighter:
LIFE.
Tnf'ome Claims. Expenses. Fun „„„
1934.. £460,983 £135,810 £60,367 £ Hoq’B37
1935.. 457,559 148,686 61,126 3,139,837
1936.. 477,472 171,645 64,209 3,381,455
Excluding taxes (£13,855), and assuming
that the cost of collecting consideration
for annuities was 3 p.c., exes, took 14.9
p.c. of the year’s net premiums as against
14.7 p.c. for the previous term. The
loading allowed by the actuary was 18.2
p.c. of the net premiums. Owing to a
larger crop of claims (up £22,959), the
surplus (£241,618) was £6129 lighter.
Still, the mortality experience was said
to be light compared with the tables
used (Om). After deducting taxes, .the
net effective interest return was 3.78 p.c.
on the mean Life fund as against 3.83
p.c. for the previous term. The office
assumes that the fund will turn in p.c.
The actuary figured the surplus avail-
able at the end of 1935 for division
among policy-holders £11,172 better at
£91,566:
1933. 1934. 1935.
Assurance fund .. £2,763,826 £3,021,645 £3,275,678
N£t liability . . 2,688,079 2,941,251 3,184,11-
Rurplus .. £75,747 £80,394 £91,566
Of the £91,566, £75,278 is to be distri-
buted in reversionary bonuses at the rate
of £3 p.c. of the sum assured for whole-
of-life and from £2 10s. p.c. to 30s. p.c.
on endowment assurances and pure en-
dowment's, according to the age of the
policy. These rates were the same as for
the previous term, but slightly lower
than for the year before that.
The experience in connection with
Workers’ Compensation business, in
which the office enjoys a monopoly, has
been very unfavorable, owing to recent
legislation extending further benefits to
workers. Here is a summary of opera-
tions in this department over the last
three years:—
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss. Reserves.
1934.. 350,187 , 309,409 60,907 20,129 138,178
Interest, etc., £26,660 .. .. 165,378
1935.. 391,931 395,004 68,553 71,626 93,752
Interest, etc., £31,620 .. .. 125,372
1936.. 449,537 463,353 75,070 88,886 36,486
Interest, etc., £28,037 .. .. 64,523
Last year claims took over 103 p.c. of
the net premiums as against 100.8 p.c.
in 1935, and exes. 16.7 p.c. as against
17.4 p.c. Underwriting losses over the
last three years aggregate £180,641. To
arrest the drain on reserves, premium
rates on occupations with claims ratios
of 51 p.c. and higher were increased
from July 1.
In the Miners’ Phthisis section there
was an underwriting surplus of £7963,
compared with a loss of £6OBB in 1935.
The Fire department is profitable
enough:—
FIRE.
Net
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Surplus. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 155,524 37,862 59,037 58,625 284,047
Interest, £17,136 301,183
1935.. 158,057 40,310 68,113 49,634 350,817
Interest, £19,302 370,119
To general reserve, £40,000 ~ 330,119
To distribution account, £17,000.. 313,119
1936.. 157,810 51, 430 64,097 62,283 375,402
Interest, £21,087 .. . . • . 396,489
To general reserve, £40,000 .. 356,489
To distribution account, £20,000 .. 336,489
Though there was a slight contraction in
last year’s net premium income, the
underwriting surplus was £12,649 better
at £62,283. That was because of a drop
of 5.6 p.c. in the claims ratio (19.9 p.c.)
and of 2.4 p.c. in the expense rate (40.6
p.c.). Considering the office gets a lot
of Government business at little cost, its
expense rate is high. After sending
£40,000 to the general reserve (£698,972)
and setting aside £20,000 to cover a 10
p.c. rebate on renewal premiums, re-
serves in this section were equal to 213
p.c. of the year’s net premiums, whereas
150 p.c. is usually considered adequate.
There is no share capital. Tangible
assets total £4,712,004, of which Consols
account for £4,107,896; freehold,
£118,197 ; fittings, £26,305 ; loans, chiefly
on life policies, £306,246; outstanding
premiums, £50,218; sundry debtors,
£10,641 ; accrued interest, cash, etc.,
£92,499. Including compensation trust
and suspense accounts, the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was £48,802.
There is talk of the old Croydon gold-
field (N.Q.) receiving more attention.
From 1886, when gold was first dis-
covered there, to the end of 1924, when
operations ceased, 770,9500 z., valued at
over £3,500,000, had been won. Most
of the gold produced there, during the
last 12 years came from old dumps. The
Aerial and Geophysical Survey has been
looking over the ground, while the Gov-
ernment diamond drill has been working
in the Golden Gate area for some time
without success. The only new show
opened on the field is the General Grant,
three miles from Croydon, where a 15in.
reef is being worked ; a trial crushing of
five tons yielded 3oz. sdwt. of gold.
* * * *
Halley’s Comet, Westralia’s latest rich
gold patch, was found by T. J. Starr,
who had been searching for fortune near
Marble Bar, where the Comet is, for
nearly 40 years. Early this year he
started loaming on the top of a 200 ft.
hill, got traces, and then struck it rich.
Over £20,000 worth of gold has been
recovered over the plates from 400 tons
of ore, and a lot of the yellow metal, to
be recovered later, rolled away in the
sands. Then an offer of £40,000 from
Claude de Bernales’s representative was
accepted. Starr and his two mates, H.
Boyd and G. W. Robertson, estimate
there is £lOO,OOO worth of gold now in
sight. Starr says that before finding the
Comet he prospected for three years
without earning enough to buy salt.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) continues to meet with
trouble. The tube mill is still absorbing
gold which cannot be recovered until the
present liners are replaced by new ones
in a few months’ time. Also, mechani-
cal and metallurgical adjustments held up
treatment for about five days during
November. Experienced miners are
hard to obtain, and low tonnage treated
is to a certain extent attributed to break-
ing-in new men on the machines. The
financial position is claimed to have
improved by at least £2OOO, despite, set-
backs.
* * * *
Two Westralian cos., Ora Banda
Amalgamated and Rothsay, which have
not thus far produced very en-
couraging results, are now said to have
much better prospects. The former’s
appearance in the bottom workings has
shown a marked improvement. Novem-
ber yield was worth about £6700, and a
div. (the second) of 6d. is payable this
month. Rothsay is being equipped with
a modern treatment plant, and is offi-
cially tipped to make good before long.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) continues to
replace ore treated with ore developed.
Reserves on Oct. 31 last consisted or
191,000 tons of s.Bldwt. ore blocked and
82,800 tons of s.sBdwt. probable ore.
Estimated reserves six months previously
were 198,700 tons of s|dwt. blocked and
69,600 tons probable of similar value.
* * * *
London-controlled Edjudina Consoli-
dated (W.A.) denies a report published
in Australia that a lot of hands had been
sacked and that the board had suspended
operations pending the appointment of a
new manager. What happened was that
some reduction in staff became necessary
when development in the upper levels
was discontinued in order to concentrate
on shaft-sinking.
* * * *
The demise of Pomme d’Or (W.A.) is
expected to be announced any day now.


SMOKE-OH!
“Several full-grown men could get com-
fortably in the stomach of a blue whale,” says
a writer.
He’s got a funny idea of comfort.
* >!* *1*
“Large Shipment of Birds for Sydney.”
—“Herald.”
It is earnestly hoped this does not
include any love-birds.
•h
“City, Chop, excellent position, Collins-
street, close Town Hall.” — “Argus.”
The tenant, no doubt, hopes it will be
a cut “let.”
4* 4* 4*
“All sorts of cakes are in evidence at
Christmas time.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Including, of course, the stomachache.
4" 4* 4* 4*
Judging by their collections of medals,
the greatest fighters in the Great War
were the pawnbrokers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He asked his bother to help him. His
bother made him a small loan.”— “Sun.”
Short for “bother-and-strife”?
4* 4* 4* ' 4*
Whatever troubles Adam had,
At any rate no bore
Could say, when Adam told a joke,
“I’ve heard that one before.”
J.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He stood with set jaw pounding on the
desk between them.” — “Woman.”
Home-made toffee does get you that
way.
“y wouldn't know We HAD a tow since We hit the good road!"
Marriage Risks.
_, , ,
In the Commonwealth last year
marriages were registered. This figure
compares favorably with those for other
classes of accidents.
Just to what extent marriage may be
regarded as a recurring risk is not dis-
closed in the official figures, but there
is good reason to believe that a too
large proportion of the above figures
represent carelessness on the part of
widows, divorcees, etc. It is a well-
established fact that the chances of con-
trading marriage morf* than once are
the same as for hay-fever, unless proper
precautions are taken.
Feminine enterprise is again demon-
strated by the fact that the ages of brides
ranged from 13 to 92 years, compared
with 15 to 90 years for bridegrooms.
The average age of bridegrooms for
the period was 29 (after which they age
rapidly) and that of brides 25. The
brides, of course, did their own averag-
ing.
Angus O’Cohen.
►F *F *F *F
“The historic Stone of Scone is of sandy,
granular material.” — “Age.”
A fair description of the equally well-
known scones of stone.
»F -F *F *
“New Zealand broadcasting director says that
he will elevate jazz.”— “Sun.”
Must be going to make his orchestras
climb the aerials.
»F *F *F *F
“Experts are baffled as to where whales go
in winter time.”— Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Torment.
It seemed an eternity since I had heard
her voice. I vividly remembered her first
faint-breathed question and my own
fervid response. And now I awaited her
next words with throbbing expectation.
The seconds lengthened into minutes,
and the minutes into aeons of agony and
suspense. I had almost succumbed to
despair, thinking that I had lost her for
ever, when I heard her voice—hers—
almost in my very ear, “Two pennies,
please!”
Cinco.
•F *F *F *F
“A Canadian woman who lost 50 dollars in
the street advertised it in a newspaper and next
day two different persons sent for 50 dollars.”
—News item.
We hereby report the loss of twelve-
pounds-ten.
•F *F *F *F
“ ‘Wheat,’ says an agricultural writer, ‘was
originally a wild plant.’ ”
Nowadays it’s the growers who are
wild.
»F F *F »F
The Eternal Female.
“Cricket-bat manufacturers believe that wood
from the female willow makes the best bats.”
Speaking as captain and opening bats-
man of the Goofington Amateur Cricket
and Social Club, I can wholeheartedly
endorse this belief. My favorite bat—
Alice —has enabled me to top the bat-
ting averages of our side for three
seasons in succession. I totalled 15 runs
last v?"- 13 ® e v“ r befor f and >° tha
year before that, a record which will
ta^e some beating in our district, if I
m so
Qf j owg kaU tQ AHce But
ske , s aw f ud y sensitive. I’ll tell you
w bat happened last Saturday. Bat-
dng against the Upper Wurzleville
Young Men’s Club, I suddenly, and for
n o apparent reason, hit the first sixer of
my career. I was amazed—and over-
joyed. But my joy turned to horror as
I saw the ball flying towards my fiancee,
who had been cheering me on. It struck
her on the head, knocking her uncon-
scious. When she came to she imme-
diately broke off our engagement.
Then I realised it was /* : ce’s doing.
She was jealous, of course!
G. J. H.
“Don’t blame your partner’s hand when you
lose a game.” — Bridge writer.
No, it’s your own fault; you should
put your shins where he can kick them.
•F *F *F *l*
“Do modern girls ever think of marriage?”
asks a newspaper correspondent.
Of course modern girls ever think of
marriage.
“ What's the matter, darling — don't you like it?
"Well, l thought We could at least have a room to ourselves
“The police recovered my lawnmower within
two hours of it being stolen.”
—Newspaper correspondent.
Oh, well, we all have bad luck at times.
“Big husbands are generally meek.”
—Woman speaker.
Cave-in men.
“Comedian George Robey is booked to begin
a tour of the Commonwealth in April.”
Is this approved by the other “Prime
Minister of Mirth”?
•F *F *F »F
“Haggis was the main dish at the annual
dinner of the Melbourne Scots.” — “Age.”
Owing, doubtless, to a shortage of the
national Caledonian dish, spaghetti.
“Few first-class cricketers play in spectacles."
— C. B. Fry.
Most players certainly try to avoid get-
ting a pair.
•F *F *F
“Glen Huntly Improvement League proposes
that there should be public baths on Caulfield
racecourse.” — Melbourne report.
Anything to keep racing clean.
•F *F *F *F
She goes on talking till I blink
And feel inclined to drop:
If she would only stop to think
Perhaps she’d think to stop.
H. M.
•F *F »F *F
A Balanced Equilibration.
“It was the finest fighting golf ever seen on a
Sydney course. Ferrier is the equal, if not the
peer, of Ivo Whitton in his prime at hanging
on to a score.”— Sydney “Telegraph.”
This question of whether Jim is the
peer or only the equal of Ivo has long
been a subject of controversy in golfing
circles.
Local supporters of the Manly wonder,
however, have gone even further and
declared that not only is he Whitton’s
peer, but also that he has reached parity
with Whitton’s skill. This has been
countered by the Victorian’s admirers,
who assert' that, though Ferrier might be
his equal in hanging on to a score, Whit-
ton has the edge on him by being his
peer so far as tenacity is concerned.
Another school of thought contends
that, although Ferrier might be able to
tie with Whitton in his prime, with the
latter in his palmy days the younger man
could do no better than dead-heat.
This highly controversial statement has
aroused a storm of criticism from the
diametrically opposite school, which em-
phatically believes that, while Whitton at
his top would undoubtedly be on level
terms with Ferrier, the present champion
at his best would enjoy not only co-
equality, but would even reach a status
of pari passu with his formidable rival.
Summed up, it appears that, while
there are many who are in perfect ac-
cord with the contentions touching on
these two outstanding golfers, others will
go no farther than to agree that what
has been said is correct, and that there
could even be said to be a distinction
without a difference were it not for the
fact that it is tantamount to being six of
one and half a dozen of the other.
There the matter rests pending a final
decision —that is,' of course, unless it is
intended to hold the question in abey-
ance until it is conclusively resolved.
S. W. K.
My Affinity.
I have known many girls that rival
Venus,
And I’ve met a thousand more that
aren’t so mean ;
I’ve forgotten all about them, and I find
I’ll live without them,
For I had the wondrous luck to draw a
queen.
She was marvellous and opportune and
welcome,
And I know that I will never be the
same.
Am I married? Spare my blushes!
I’m just keen on royal flushes,
And I’m speaking of last evening’s poker
game.
CUATRO.
Just where the whales in winter roam
Mammalogists don’t know ;
Perhaps they get fed up at home
And run out for a blow !
J.
Of all the sad surprises
There’s nothing to compare
With treading in the darkness
On a step that isn’t there.
TRES.
Qualified.
“Wanted, female tracer, state experience.”
— “S.M.H.” ad.
Dere Sur,—i begs to apply fur the job
of tracer, i is not much of a hand at
edication, but i recon i noes wot is wot
about tracing, i traced you from your
house to your home, and got a fotograf
of the ladies wot lives in each of them,
i likes the one with the ginger air best.
The other old tart looks like the one you
married, but i will trace that up in the
rejistrer genrals if you like, i also noes the
yung man as is corting your dorter beind
your back, and the munny lender wot
chaces your son. if you like i can tell
you the name of your s.p. booky, & the
name of the one you add befor and gave
up becos you cood not pay im. i noes
the bloke wot spends the day at your ome
after you goes to work and i is on the
track of annuther wot freakwents your
ouse aftar lunch. Rekon i got enny
chanse of the job?
LIZZIE LUGSPREADER.
Free Concerts.
We have music in the morning,
We have music in the night,
We have music while we’re eating,
We have music while we write.
We have music in the parlor,
We have music in the hall —
It is furnished by our neighbors,
And we thank them one and all.
UNO.


A HAPPY CHRISTMAS
FOR OUR BOYS & GIRLS
B •
Childrens „ ib
RIDING BOOTS 17/6
Tan Elastic Sides, sizes 10
to 13, 17/6 per pair.
Sizes 1 to 4, 18/6 per pair.
Postage l /-.
RIDING WHIPS, 4-plait,
4/-; 6-plait, 5/-. Post 9d.
CHILDREN’S SADDLES
From £3/10/- (mounted).
Riding Pads from 36/-.
BOYS’ STOCKWHIPS
No. I—Boys up to 5 yrs., 3/6
No. 2—Boys 6 to 7 yrs., 4/6
No. 4—Boys 8 to 0 yrs., 7/6
No. 6—Boys 10 to 12 yrs., 10/6
No. B—For Youths 16/6
Post 1/- each.
K
No. 6348 —Skinning and Penknife, 3/-, 5/0
Post 3d.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER *. STEVENSON ltd.
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKINC COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
i ■
m
ana
as
IN
ROCKIES
Right on the Canadian Pacific
route to Europe. Noted for its
scenic beauty, hospitality,
cuisine and thrilling holiday
pleasures. Learn more about
this mountain paradise from
any Tourist Booking Agency.
K
or
19.6.7
World's Greatest Travel System V
59 WILLIAM STREET - - MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - - - SYDNEY
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Those able to recognise the politics
in some bankers’ utterances these days
didn’t take the pessimistic view of bank
shares as an investment that a few
holders tbok last week. Then ’Wales
£2O shares dropped to £33 12s. 6d., show-
ing a return of 3.6 p.c. if the 6 p.c. quar-
terly div. is continued. We cannot look
for continued business revival at the rate
of the past couple of years ; but when
a few matters such as security values,
interest rates, etc., appear a little more
pleasing to the banker’s eye a less con-
servative attitude in profit-writing should
follow. Banking activity is getting close
to 1930 levels again, and profit-margins
on advances are widening.
Castlemaine Perkins
ords. were a snap at 235.
9d. last week, yielding 4.2
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. It is a most ener-
getic brewing concern in
a State with a growing
thirst.
* * *
When Carlton Brewery
(Melb.) shares dropped
to 60s. about a fortnight ago they were
mentioned here as good buying. They
sold at 635. 9d. last week, giving a yield
of slightly more than 3.7 p.c.
* * * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance shares
have had an excellent rise since first
suggested as an investment here. Only
recently listed on ’Change, they have
lifted 10s. this year, changing hands at
the record price of 345. 6d. last week.
Divs. on the 10s. scrip have been kept
down to 7 p.c., but last year’s earnings
were nearly three times that. Net tan-
gibles, inclufng reserve for unexpired
risks, amount to 235. 4d. per share.
Hamiltons (Aust.), Ltd.
This concern has in a short time
worked up a profitable business based
on vigorous share-selling and share-bar-
gaining. It took over most of the out-
door staff of Cranwells (now Producers’
and General Finance) when that co.
bought the P.P. Bank assets and gave
up dealing in shares. To start with,
Hamiltons handled a large parcel of
Cranwells’ shares, which it sold or ex-
changed for other shares—some holders
of Barrier mining stock, for example,
were approached when North shares
were at £8 or thereabouts; they are now
£l2 10s. on a £1 share basis.
Hamiltons registered on Sept. 13,
1935, and goodwill account figured at
£17,302. With headquarters in Sydney,
branches were soon established in Vic.,
S.A., Queensland and Maoriland. At
the end of the co.’s first year’s opera-
tions (to Sept. 30 last) capital is shown
at £67,074 in fully-paid £1 shares, the
amount issued for cash not stated.
For the period from establishment
“net revenue from share transactions” is
disclosed at £18,760. This item would
appear to include all commissions and
profits on shares bought, sold and ex-
changed, less all outside and office exes,
Whether the figure takes any account of
market appreciation, etc., on invest-
ments not actually realised the report
doesn’t say. In addition, “income from
investments” appears at £1124, interest,
etc., at £167, total £20,051. To income-
tax reserve £5OOO is carried, £5OO doubt-
ful debts, and £lOOO investment fluctua-
tions, leaving net profit at £13,551 —•
equal to 22.3 p.c. on average capital at
work over the period,
Off goodwill account £2302 has been
written, reducing it to £15,000, and
“I Was told t ’ provide me own defence!"
shareholders are to get 15 p.c. for the
year (£9126), leaving £2123 to go for-
ward.
The assets as given in the balance-
sheet do not fully explain themselves.
Shares in other cos., “at cost, £39,969,”
are not dissected. Sundry debtors,
£10,602, and loans, £13,078, are big
items ; the first (current accounts) may
represent balances due from share-buy-
ing clients, but the nature of the loans
item might be explained. It brings
in interest. “Options, £1700,” also
needs further elaboration. Cash, etc.,
amounts to £BllB the goodwill item
beforementioned . and furniture, etc.,
£2705, bring the balance-sheet total
up to £90,173. Preliminary exes, have
been wiped out of the accounts. Credi-
tors are owed £8768.
. To what extent, if any, Hamiltons’
future is going to be. affected by revised
company legislation remains to be seen.
The directors express satisfaction with
the year’s results, but do not speak of
the future.
Though the year’s div. is a good one,
and the results generally quite satisfactory
to those who paid £1 for shares, with
a visible net tangible backing of no more
than 16s. 6d. per share, new investors will
be justified at this early stage of the co. s
career in asking for a 9 p.c. or 10 p.c.
return on the scrip, which is not listed.
In arriving at that opinion regard has
been given to the yield obtainable on
the listed shares of Cash Orders (Amal-
gamated), Ltd., and Waldas Shoes, Ltd.,
both 15-percenters.
On Hamiltons’ board are Brig.-Gen.
H. W. Lloyd, E. H. Farrar, M.L.C.,
W. J. Curtis, K.C., J. L. O’Donnell, and
F. H. Taylor (manager).
A lot of good stocks that had dipped
during the uproar of the past week or
so took a definitely strong turn a few
days ago. Australasian Paper jumped
Is. 3d. last Wednesday, B.H. Prop. Is.,
Bank of N.S.W. 10s., Henry Jones 9d.,
Tooth Is., Carlton Is. 9d. and Bankers
and Traders’ 9d. There were further
rises on Thursday and Friday. Consols
were generally lower. Gordon and Gotch
ords. were sought, with few sellers, and
all offerings of Yarra Falls were quickly
taken at firming prices.
Wheat sold very well last week ; better
than ss. 4d. was got on trucks in Sydney
and Melbourne. Harvesting is nearly
finished, and, though many farmers are
holding and waiting for keener demand,
effects of the present price-rise should
soon spread through the country. If ss.
a bushel is averaged for the full season-
the harvest would be worth more than
£32,500,000. (Aust.). A couple of years
ago the wool cheque wasn’t worth much
more than that. .
Wheat exports should be worth over
£22,000,000 (Aust.) in the current .finan-
cial year. In spite of this and the promise
of better receipts for wool, the outlook
for a favorable trade balance big enough
to pay for overseas commitments and
put something in reserve is black as ever.
* * * *
If distributions to directors and em-
ployees by G. J. Coles and Co. are
modified, profits available for share-
holders may show a substantial per-
centage increase. As much as 81 p.c. on
ord. share-capital has been split up in
one year among working directors. Any-
way, with the interim div. up and chain-
store prospects still favorable the market
paid the record figure of 91s. 6d. for
the ords. last week. On a 15 p.c. div.
basis the yield would be low —3.3 p.c.
If the rate goes to 17| p.c. the return
would be 3.8 p.c.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of ingot
steel in its latest working month was a
record at 57,581 tons. The £1 shares
have, firmed to 82s. 6d. again.
* * * *
Wiluna shares are still weak (near 405.)
in Adelaide. They look a good thing,
as gold shares go, even though the final
div. has been passed, following a drop
in the holding co.’s profit to 9.5 p.c. on
capital. The operating co. has retained
some profit to defray part of the recent
heavy capital outlay on smelters. Re-
coveries, if they don’t get much better,
shouldn’t get much worse.
* * * *
New Occidental (Cobar, N.S.W.) has
produced just on 10,000 oz. of fine gold
in the past four months. The mine has
always been regarded as a potential pro-
ducer here, though the control early this
year was criticised for not supplying
shareholders fully with relevant informa-
tion. A sixpenny div. has been declared,
and recoveries have stepped up to over
7dwt. It was a sharp and for some time
unexplained drop in this respect about
this time last year that gave shareholders
a fright and sent the scrip tumbling. If
recoveries on the November scale con-
tinue the show will bring about £275,000
a year into the State.
* * * *
The financial year of Holeproof, Vic-
torian hosiery manufacturers, closes on
Dec. 31. Ord. shareholders expect better
than 8 p.c. (the 1935 rate) for 1936 ; the
market lifted to over 295. early last week,
after dealings for months around 235.,
and closed at 28s. The co. is one of the
largest manufacturers of hosiery in the
Commonwealth —probably the largest as
regards men’s socks —and old share-
holders in what was Staley and Staley,
Ltd., now seem to be promised a good
reward for their waiting.
* * * *
Speculation in Washington H. Soul,
the Sydney and Newcastle chain-store
chemists, with' which Boots have been
negotiating, slackened suddenly, and last
week there was sharp reaction in the
scrip—from above 905., to 85s. On the
basis of present distributions p.c.)
the yield is 3 p.c. It has been a won-
derfully profitable business in the past.
Investors may find, however, that if a
merger with Boots does occur there are
chances of sacrifices being called for at
the beginning. If the, English co. had to
pay too highly for a link-up it might
consider that as a competitor it could
establish itself at less cost.
* * * / *
In Melbourne last week :
Australian Knitting Mills shares rose to
the new high level of 11s. sd. for the 7s. 6d.
shares. These shares were recommended here
at the. beginning of the year. Co. makes
“Golden Fleece” underwear, a widely-sold
article, as well as many other varieties of
knitted goods.
Howard Smith ords. kept steady around
21s. 9d. They have shown little fluctuation
during the past disturbing week or so.
Morning Star shares sold at 4s. 2d. Triton
(W.A.) had a large turnover at 9s. 6d. Central
Nell Gwynne kept firm around 585., and
Wattle Gully sold at 465.
Australian Cement paid a final div. of 10
p.c. p.a., and the £1 shares returned to 30s.
in the market.


Announcing the 1937 Models of the Popular
K
/ 14 H.P. \
\Light Six)
ii
M
m
.x-v...
WITH AN ENGINEERING DEVELOP-
MENT THAT IS THE KEY TO A NEW
STRUCTURAL STRENGTH AND
DURABILITY— The All-Steel
“TURRET” TOP
GAIN * . ♦ for the fifth consecutive
jTk year ... the Little Vauxhall leads
the field of English light cars. Each
year since its introduction in 1933, it
has led the sales of English cars in
Australia. For, each year, it has led
in Value. It was the first car of its
class to, give the light car owner a
smooth, modern six cylinder overhead
valve engine at the price of the cus-
tomary four cylinder design. It was
first (and still is) to bring him the
matchless comfort of Independent Front
Wheel Springing. It was first with
No-Draught Ventilation and a really
roomy inbuilt Luggage T runk and
Spare Tyre Compartment. And for
1937 it is first again . . . first of the
entire motor car field in fact . . . with
engineering's latest contribution to
structural strength and safety, the all-
steel “Turret” Top.
"What a little beauty," you’ll say admiringly
when you see the 1937 Vauxhall 14 with its
crowning beauty the gleaming all-steel
"Turret” Top. But —to admire only the
beauty of the “Turret” Top is to miss its
greatest significance.
For the “Turret” Top is actually the key to
the whole structure of the car. It means
greater strength and safety . . . greater dura-
bility . . . not only in the body, but throughout
the entire car. Here, briefly, is the story in
non-technical terms. You will remember that,
in the early days of the motor car, the chassis
was as heavy, if not heavier, than that of
many a motor truck to-day. The reason was
that the chassis had to bear the full brunt of
the road shocks which tried to twist and
weave it. The body, on the other hand, was
simply a superstructure that did not help in
any way to brace the chassis or contribute
strength of construction.
Gradually, however, bodies have been made >
stronger, more rigid, and when built on the
chassis have braced it and .contributed greater
structural strength throughout the whole car.
Now comes the outstanding achievement in the
search for even stronger and safer motor car
construction —the all-steel “Turret” Top. Here
is a simple experiment that will quickly demon-
strate to you how the “Turret” Top brings
greater structural strength to the whole car»
Take an empty flat tin such as cigarette makers
use to pack 20 cigarettes. Open it. Now,
disregarding the lid, let the bottom of the tin
and the four sides represent respectively the
chassis and sides of an ordinary closed car.
Sec how easily you can twist and distort the
bottom of the tin. Next close the lid of the
tin —in other words, put a “Turret” Top on
it—and then try to distort it. You will be
amazed at the added resistance it offers to
bending.
Ķ
ĸ
Likewise the “Turret” Top brings Vauxhall’s
chassis amazingly increased strength and
rigidity. And the “Turret” Top offers these
further advantages:
The all-steel “Turret” Top makes it possible
to use a heat insulating method previously
impracticable.
The all-steel “Turret” Top’s rigid construc-
tion, too, makes possible closer fitting doors
and a more effective sealing of the car.
And the “Turret" Top body with its greater
rigidity and resistance to weaving means
more restful travel free of the annoyance of
body squeaks. The “Turret” Top body is
more effectively insulated against noise as
well. Top, roof and sides are all scientifically
treated to damp-out noise and resonance.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Entirely New RELAX-O-FORM SEATS
You will experience a new feeling of comfort when you
sit on Vauxhall .Relax-o-form Seats. Their softness and
resilience make them feel as if they are made-to-your-
measure. Entirely new to Australia, Relax-o-form Seats
are introduced by Vauxhall, and are a tribute to the
ingenuity of Holden engineers who produced them.
K
Consult your local authorised
Vauxhall Dealer
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO
The 1937 “Air Chief” car radio designed for
Vauxhall includes a special remote control for
fitting to face of instrument panel. A new
6-valve set with tone equal to the best home
radio, and increased distance reception. Ask
for a demonstration.
Roma Oil
From “Driller Bill” <Roma, Q.):
The crude oil got by bailing at Roma (Q.)
(B. 25 /11 / ’36) deserves more than a passing
mention. Similar results in any other country
would have started feverish drilling; but Aus-
tralians are not yet oil-minded. On Hospital
Hill the Roma Oil Corp. produced from No. 1
well between 20,000 and 30,000 gallons of white
and straw-colored oil similar to the Calgary type.
With a Braun absorption plant, imported in
1928 from California, the co. extracted 30,000
to 40,000 gallons of petrol from the natural gas,
of which millions of cubic feet (with a petrol
content of 22 pints petrol to 1000 cubic feet)
blew-off wastefully between discovery in 1901
and the cessation of operations in 1930. Nine
miles n.e. of Roma Melbourne-controlled Roma
Blocks cored three fine-oil sands, and pro-
duced by bailing some 900 gallons of light
crude, equal to the best Pennsylvanian. Ten
miles east, at Blythdale, Aust. Roma Oil and
Aust. Oil Industries (Block F) cored excellent
oil sands in three or four bores. Small quanti-
ties of crude oil were recovered by bailing from
these wells, but quantities of saline waters with
the sands showed that the wells were “off
structure.”
At Warooby, half-way between Roma and
Blythdale, Oil Search, Ltd., quite recently
located large quantities of wet gas, rivalling
that of Hospital Hill in volume.
The existence of oil sands, crude oil and
natural gas in such volume in the triangle of
Hospital Hill, Block 16 and Blythdale—an area
of nearly 30,000 acres—is a remarkable geo-
logical occurrence.'
Experience elsewhere indicates that in so
large a drajnage area even a small structure
would yield* commercial quantities of oil and
gas.
The geological conditions which obtained at
Roma when its oil and gas sands were deposited,
and afterwards when Nature manufactured and
accumulated the wet gas and crude oil,
prevailed right through Central and North-west
Queensland to the Gulf; and it would be con-
trary to Nature’s manner if similar conditions
did not give rise to similar accumulations in
other parts in that area. Throughout Western
Queensland widespread showings of wet gas
and oil in numerous deep bores air point to the
existence of one of the world’s great fine-oil-
fields.
The abdication of Edward VIII. didn’t
even ruffle London commodity markets.
Meat and wool strengthened, South Seas
copra soared to over £2O sterling a ton,
rubber rose sharply, cotton, and jute
firmed, while base metals, especially lead
and spelter, showed great buoyancy.
Morris Hedstrom ords., in view of the
remarkable rise in copra, should be
worth buying at the recent quote of 275.
* * * *
The latest Commonwealth loan, of
£7,500,000 at £3 19s. 4d. per cent., re-
ceived the poorest support given any
Federal borrowing operation since the
depression. About £2,000,000 of it has
been left on the hands of the under-
writers.
* * H= *
Metals have taken an upward turn
again. Lead is over £24 sterling, spelter
above £l7, and copper back to £49. Tin
has lately been the weakest, but fluctua-
tions have been within a range of £5 a
ton, with firmness noticeable at the week-
end. Barrier shares lifted again on
Saturday, Mt. Lyell was steady, and
there was improvement in many tin
issues. Kramat, a concern that got
specific mention here last week, has
declared a div. and bonus of 3s. a share,
as against 2s. four months ago.
* * * *
Indications are that some sort of price
stabilisations will be brought about in
the N. S. Wales coal industry early in
1937. Owners of colliery shares were
reluctant to part with scrip at last week’s
buying offers.
* * * H=
Shares in Wests, Ltd., mentioned here
a few weeks ago as the best means of
buying into the picture-show business,
rose smartly from 9s. to 9s. Bd. last week.
There was renewed activity in all pic-
ture scrip towards the week-end. The
market has been repeatedly disappointed
with results of the. Union group ; Wests
shares have been as high as 12s. 6d. in
both 1935 and 1936, usually just before
earnings have been announced. Spencers,
which sold up to 9s. at one. stage this
year, were at 6s. 7d. last week.
* * * *
Wattle Gully, the Chewton (Vic.) gold
show which in its short career has pro-
duced 21710 z. from 4233 tons of ore,
declared a first div. of Is. per 10s. share,
last' week. The co. now has its own bat-
tery and treatment plant, installed at a
total cost of £10,570. The scrip is
around 455., giving the undertaking a
market value of £135,000.
* * * *
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd., a
paper-distributor, etc., with a Common-
wealth-wide business, has lifted its quar-
terly distributions to 9 p.c. At 465. 6d.
the yield is a bit over 3.8 p.c. There are
chances that the pre-depression rate of
10 p.c. will be restored in the not-so-
distant future. Finances are strong.
* * * *
Watson Victor, Ltd., a subsidiary of
W. Watson and Sons, Ltd., is being
formed to market the manufactures of
the parent and the General Electric X-
ray Corp., Chicago, whose products will
be made wholly or partly in Australia.
The overseas co.’s experience and advice
will be available to Watson engineers.


FOR RANDWICK.
Villiers: Buzzalong, 1 ; Distin-
guished, 2 ; Mananui, 3.
Novice Handicap: Herarde ; next,
Bengal Lancer.
Holiday Handicap: Fair Diana ;
next, Egmont.
Highweight Handicap: Bombus ;
next, Verdun.
FOR EPSOM.
J. L. Reilly Stakes: Gay Sheik ;
next, Nissa.
Frankston Welter: Beau Spear ;
next, El Bassana.
Moorabbin Plate: Double Bard ;
next, Belle Silhouette.
RANDWICK RACES
SUMMER MEETING, 1936
19th and 26th DECEMBER.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Many Villiers and Summer Cup candi-
dates were seen at Rosehill on Saturday.
Of the Villiers lot King’s Head and
Mananui did best, each recording a good
performance in a division of the Dundas
Handicap.
King’s Head was backed from 7 to 2
to 9 to 4. Thanks to Bartle he had the
run of the race; he had to be. ridden
hard and flogged a bit to stp.ll off a late
run by Pavarti, but perhaps he loafed
a bit. Cid just beat Buzzalong for third
place ; each had come from a long way
back. Cool Spell and King Gee were
among the disappointments.
Mananui was also favorite—at 5 to 2.
He had to fight his way through a caval-
cade of horses in the, straight. Panrose
looked the winner at the beginning of
the last furlong, but McCarten got an
opening for Mananui, and the brown
stallion scored, running away, by a
length. Korimako was third after a bad
beginning. Jubilee Son ran sourly.
The Dundas Handicap was a seven-
furlongs affair. King’s Head’s time was
lmin. 25sec.; Mananui’s, lmin. 25^sec.
Hope was favorite for the Rosehill
December Handicap. He was interfered
with by Bronze Ruffle, who broke down,
but apparently it made no difference to
the result. Curator (8 to 1) dashed off
with a big lead, and for once he kept it.
Though tiring, Curator held off the out-
sider Domica and Sir Ross over the last
bit. Satmoth and Vice Royal were next.
Vice Royal is improving with each run
and should pay expenses, as there don’t
seem to be many stayers about.
Moree pastoralist H. B. Crowley turned
out Blue Blood (9 to 2) in excellent con-
dition for the Corinthian Handicap, and
had the, services of a competent rider in
R. Carter, of Barraba. The Baralong
gelding took charge turning for home.
There Canegrass got a nice run on the
rails, but, driving his mount along,
Carter made Canegrass carry every ounce
of his 12st. 61b. In the, end Blue Blood
held off the topweight and won cleverly
by a length. West Hock was a similar
distance away third.
Jamieson is having a lucky run in two-
year-old races. Lynch Law’s two suc-
cesses were followed by the victory of
Late, Night (4 to 1), a neat colt' by Hunt-
ing Song-Smoke Concert, who was hav-
ing his first run. Despite a bad barrier
position Late Night led throughout, beat-
ing Correct and Pygmalion in capital
style. The Warwick Farm-trained Moa-
veil (4 to 1), a small Veilmond filly, won
the second division from Awatea and
Thyone.
Backers were well on the mark in
both divisions of the Maiden Handicap.
Bengal Lancer, who cost Cairns pastoral-
ist W. Cannon 1500 guineas as a yearling,
was backed at twos for the first division.
He was flat out to beat Concrete Dome
and Killaloe, but his condition can be
improved. Edible (6 to 4), winner of the
second division, races in Moss’s colors.
He was not in danger of defeat over the
last half-mile, easily accounting for Scin-
tillo and Parlance.
* * * *
Darby Munro has fallen foul of the
stewards again. There was interference
in the second division of the Dundas
Handicap at Rosehill, Water Waggon
suffering. Munro rode Panrose; the
stewards hqld him responsible, and he
is out for a month for “careless riding.”
* * * *
The W.A.T.C. got a great race for
the £250 it hung up for the Strickland
Stakes, w.f.a., at the last meeting on its
pretty course prior to the Derby-and-
Cup round. Panto (5 to 4) won, but
only by a head from a three-year-old,
Jongleur, and Jongleur was a mere head
in front of Balkan Prince’s conqueror
Yaringa, while old Regal Son —third in
the 1933 Epsom to Chatham and first
in the Metrop.—was a length away
fourth. The time, 1 min. 51Jsec., equalled
the Westralian record for nine furlongs.
All four horses mentioned are in the
Perth Cup, Panto being favorite. He has
9st., Yaringa Bst. 111 b., Regal Son Bst.
81b. and Jongleur 7st. 71b. Also in the
race is Cueesun, who has started in three
Perth Cups and won two.
* * * *
Villiers candidates considered:
Celebrate (Bst. 131 b.): A good horse, but
getting up in years.
King’s Head (Bst. 101 b.): Very fit, and not
badly treated on Rosehill form. Has been un-
lucky in big races, and may be bothered by the
last half-furlong.
High (Bst. 81b.): Nearly always runs well at
Rand wick, and can carry the weight.
Prittle Prattle (Bst. 61b.): Has had a lot of
racing, and the attempt to make a stayer of him
may have dulled his speed. Third in the Epsom,
however.
Turbine (Bst. 51b.): For an ageing stallion
keeps his form surprisingly well. May be
bothered by the distance on this course.
On Parade (Bst.): Is in other races.
Windbird (7st. 131 b.): Second last year, and
is looking fit enough. An unsatisfactory cus-
tomer all the same.
Short Wave (7st. 111 b.): A mile may be too
far.
El Senorita (7st. 111 b.): A mile may not be
far enough. Rough chance.
Mark Antony (7st. 111 b.): An improving
three-year-old.
Cherry King (7st. 101 b.): Roguish.
Black Laughter (7st. 91b.): Fourth in the
Epsom. A nice Queensland-bred horse.
Friar’s Switch (7st. 91b.): Has won at Rand-
wick, and is beginning to take the eye.
King Gee (7st. 91b.): A capital miler when
in good nick. But he ran badly at Rosehill.
Lancaster King (7st. 81b.): A faithful old
middle-distance horse.
Golden Chance (7st. 81b.): The winner last
year—a chance, but not quite so auriferous this
time.
Curator (7st. 71b.): Has other and more suit-
able engagements.
Buzzalong (7st. 61b.): Another very promising
young horse from Queensland. Has run well
in all his Sydney races, and came with a fine
run in the straight at Rosehill after seeming
hopelessly out of it. Distance and long straight
should suit him.
Pavarti (7st, 61b.): Only King’s Head beat
her on Saturday. Has previously failed over
the last bit in mile handicaps at Randwick, but
may be staying better with age. One to be
respected
Bombus (7st. 61b.) and Cool Spell (7st. 51b.):
Fair Randwick horses. Their parties may be
flying at too-high game.
Mananui (7st. 41b.): A proved miler, at the
top of his form and nicely handicapped. May
be a handful for his jockey.
Bundar (7st. 41b.): Newcastle’s representative,
and by no means a bad one.
Distinguished (7st. 31b.): Has won twice at
seven furlongs, on each occasion very easily.
Should go eight furlongs all right. But an-
other gallop in public would not have hurt.
Sal Volatile (7st. lib.): A smart three-year-
old filly with a victory over King’s Head to her
credit; and it looks like being a prosperous year
for her sex. But she’s such a little thing!
Jubilee Son (7st. 41b), Fireman (7st.
31b.) and Un Brave (7st. 21b.) may help
to make matters interesting. This Page’s
fancy inclines to Buzzalong, with Dis-
tinguished next best.
* * * *
While owners of Sydney horses had to
be content with the £1345 prize-money
put up at Rosehill—and there were eight
events—the V.T. and R.A. in Mel-
bourne distributed £2IOO at Ascot, a
former “pony” course. But knight Gil-
bert Dyett and his committee are not
meeting with the support that they de-
serve for completely excising events for
undersized gallopers, which used to out-
number the horse races by two to one.
Only five started in the £250 Trial Hurdle
and four in the. £3OO Berkeley Welter.
Punters who laid 6 to 4 on Musical
David in the jumping event did not feel
pleased at Healey’s keeping his mount
at the rear of the field for the greater
part of the journey. Healey may have
imagined that he was atop of another
Pooley Bridge, who came from behind
to win the G.N. Hurdle last July. An
impossible task was set Musical David.
He managed to beat the rank outsider
Yes Tor for second, but was eight
lengths behind Tiger, a Violoncello geld-
ing that J. M. Bence trains for C. W.
Leonard. C.W.L.’s father owned Fish-
wife and other celebrities in years
gone by.
In the first division of the Encourage
Handicap Greenoss, by Greenstead-Miss
Tulloch, registered his fourth victory on
end. It was a splendid win. Far out
of his ground at the home bend,
Greenoss came down the straight with
sweeping strides and defeated the Burra-
badeen gelding Banquet by three parts
of a length. Banquet was only a head
in advance of the M.L. mare Luminare,
who belongs to W. T. Hazlett. The
stewards suspended F. J. McKay, rider
of Luminare, for a month on a charge
of crowding Trinidad on Greenoss ap-
proaching the turn. Greenoss started at
“twos.” Day Dreams, next in demand
at 11 to 2, experienced a bad passage,
but ran fourth.
Second division of the Encourage
Handicap went to Streamline, who —like
Greenoss in the other division —is a four-
year-old stallion. Dignity was the sire.
A. G. Barlow, the owner of Streamline,
won the Victoria Derby in 1923 with
Frances Tressady. He dropped out of
the game for a while, but now has a
useful string under the care of Pengilly,
who was foreman to C. T. Godby in the
era of Purser and Heroic, later being
private trainer to A. T. Creswick when
Thracian (half-brother to Heroic) lost
the 1926 Victoria Derby to Rampion.
Coveshaw (Stalden-Celia) tried to win
all the way. He had the Manfred colt
Owen Rose as a close companion, and
reached the judge a head in front of that
rival; but Streamline did his best work
at the end of the journey, scoring with
a length to spare. Best odds about
Streamline at barrier-rise was 6 to 4,
Coveshaw being' second favorite, with
Elixir, at 3 to 1.
In failing to finish nearer than fifth
Elixir didn’t do himself justice. The
jockey, Bones, was stood down for three
months for causing serious interference
to Una Devon near the first turn. What
happened there hampered Elixir.
Official inquiries kept the Ascot
stewards busy. Immediately following
the suspension of Bones came the investi-
gation of trouble in the Trial Handicap.
Fire Escape, a 3-to-l favorite, almost fell
after covering less than three furlongs
and dropped to the rear. Investigation
revealed that Journey’s End had crowded
Barapic on Gold Streak, thereby caus-
ing interference to Fire Escape and (in
lesser degree) Coster Lad. A month’s
suspension was imposed on Molloy, the
rider of Journey’s End.
This race went to Barapic (9 to 2)
by half a neck from the 20-to-l pace-
maker Amanore, who ruined his chance
by hanging out wide in the straight.
Coster Lad (4 to 1) was a very close
third and is worth following, but in all
probability Fire Escape would have done
the trick with any sort of luck. This
Rampion mare is a good ’un.
Evening Mist let her supporters down
badly in the Lincolnshire Handicap. She
trailed the field most of the way and beat
only two rivals. The form of the Beau
Fils mare was too bad to be true. Master
Motley, next in request to Evening Mist,
was always at or near the front. He
appeared to have the race in hand a
furlong from home, but Double Bard,
a 15-to-l pop, put in an overwhelming
run.
Double Bard was ridden by Elliot,
who won the Agua Caliente Handicap
on Phar Lap. Since returning from
overseas Elliot has had a penchant for
winning on long-priced horses, while
being successful as well on some that
are prominent in the market. Double
Bard had made a- poor showing in the
event won by Britebeard at Moonee
Valley a week before, but he travelled
very generously for Elliot and may be
written down as having returned to his
best form.
Hostile, third to Double Bard and
Master Motley, is in the perfection of
condition. He performed wonderfully to
be “in the money” after being so far
from the leaders at the home bend. Hos-
tile was knocked back to Sir Geraint
at the three-furlongs post. The stewards
could not definitely allocate the blame,
but they reprimanded Bourke, the rider
of Black Gauntlet, for contributing to
it. Hostile was successful in the Can-
tala Stakes of 1935, and he should be a
star sprint performer at the holiday meet-
ings in Melbourne. Possibly the Stand-
ish Handicap will be his mission.
Burlesque, twice winner of the valu-
able Consolation Stakes at Caulfield,
seems to be a light of other days.
Backed for the Berkeley Welter, the
Seremond stallion finished last in a field
of four. Plectrum, an Irish-bred stal-
lion, owned by T. Hogan, who had a
half-interest in Marabou when that horse
landed the Melbourne Cup, led from end
to end, but all out to stall off Earl
Leicester, with Don Miguel a disappoint-
ing third. Don Miguel (2 to 1) shaded
Plectrum in the market. Plectrum is im-
proving as he grows acclimatised. How-
ever, this win wasn’t anything to write
home about.
Sol Green’s Alaric, one of the limited
progeny of the defunct Gothic, had a
thrilling tussle with the unlucky Frill
Prince in the Ascot Handicap. His win-
ning margin was a mere half-head.
Nissa (10 to 1) secured third money, and
there ought to be a win in sight for
her. Alaric (11 to 2) was next to Turf
Boy (5 to 2) in favoritism. Lastnamed
beat Frill Prince in the Ballarat Cup.
He had a rough passage on Saturday.
0 Continued on next page .)
Ins and Outs
“The authorities having decided that,
for domestic reasons, Gilbert should not
play in first-class cricket again,” the abo.
fast bowler was out of the Queensland
country team for the game against the
Englishmen at Ipswich. Most of the
visitors seemed to regard it as a picnic
affair, and the bowling, on an easy
wicket —though Robins used seven
changes, himself, Voce, Fames, Copson,
Sims and Hammond among them—
didn’t appear dangerous. Young T.
Allen, the slow bowler in the Queens-
land Sheffield team, got to 118, the
highest score by a Queenslander against
England, and with Maddern (62), an
inter-State man a few years ago, help-
ing, 200 came up with two wickets
down. Then the bowlers put a bit of
life into it, and it was all out 300.
(Hammond three for 40, Sims three for
83.)
* * * *
“Five Ways”: A feature of the first
Test match was a revival of the press
campaign against holding Test matches
in Brisbane. The most puerile objec-
tions were advanced. Objection to the
wicket was out of the question ; till the
rain came it was the best the Englishmen
have played on in this country, so the
squealers had to fall back on complaints
about the press-box, the inadequacy of
the luncheon service, which has com-
pelled some inkslingers to carry their
own rations, and other trivialities. The
fact that Queensland as a member of the
Sheffield ring now has a pre-emptive right
to a Test and that the coming of repre-
sentative matches has tremendously in-
creased interest in the game in the North
was ignored.
s5< sfc sfc ♦
“Old Q.”: Queensland’s cricket heads
are whales on reforms nowadays. The
latest ukase is that umpires must wear
white boots instead of black, though it
should be pointed out that as paid per-
formers their amateur status is not the
same color as their boots and coats. It’s
lucky Gilbert has been pushed out of big
cricket, or else the heads would inevitably
have had him whitewashed or bleached.
0 Continued on next page.)
“Susie Swattit”: The decision of the
International Amateur Federation that
the quaintly-named Federation Sportive
Feminine Internationale is a joke due
for the scrapheap means that lovely
woman as a sporting —or should I write
“athletic”? —proposition is to come again
under the brutal and unthinking control
of mere man. This will blow the newly-
formed Australian Women’s Athletic
Union to Booligal. Few of the women’s
State athletic organisations will view
with pleasure the idea of the men
running the show again after the mess
they made of it in the past.


ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA
THE SECOND TEST MATCH
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, DEC. 18, 19, 21, 22, 23.
Play Commences 12 Noon.
AUSTRALIAN TEAM: D. G. Bradman (Capt.),
C. L. Badcock, W. A. Brown, A. G. Chipperfield,
J. Fingleton, S. J. McCabe, E. L. McCormick,
W. A. Oldfield, W. J. O’Reilly, R. Robinson,
M. W. Sievers, F. Ward.
ADMISSION:
Outer Ground—Adults, 2/-; Children, 1/- (Including Tax).
Grandstand—Adults, 4/-; Children, 2/- (Including Tax).
11, HEYDON, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 2u4a George Street, Sydney.
Ķ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Mgk >v ~ ||| Z'TT
Miiißii
'mmzi ■ •
>-W;
'*7?S.
CHAMPAGNE
i*
fj p IS
• t .. .
-pry c M~T~~ A
ENGIANO" .JHI- -li -
REIMS
2STASUSKSS ty&i
SELSCTBO
VINTAGES
vLLI
N.S.W. Agents:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
Under the Whip
PICKING ’EM.
vT~
Not only the A.J.C. handicapper took
a chance with Young Crusader. The
Melbourne man formed a higher opinion
of the chestnut than his Sydney col-
league, but, though Young Crusader won
the Metropolitan with fully 161 b. in
hand, he was raised only 51b., from 7st.
41b. to 7st. 91b., in the Melbourne Cup.
No horse that won the Metrop. by a
street ever got into the Melbourne Cup
with such a weight, and many old hands
believe that if Young Crusader had not
been asked to do the impossible by his
jockey he would have made a mess of
the field—and the weights—at Fleming-
ton, as lie did at Randwick.
In the Cup race he was never allowed
to take a breather until he had gone
nearly a mile and seven furlongs hell-
for-leather, and then he was done.
He was out in front at the end of the
first half-mile, which was run in 50-}sec.
They usually take a second or two
longer. Young Crusader must really
have “broken 50,” for he was by no
means the first to leave the barrier:
there were five or six horses ahead of
him when they got into their stride.
The second half-mile was covered in
s(Hsec. the third in 50{sec. —a mile
and a half in 2min. and still four
furlongs to go!
Between the 10-furlongs and seven-
furlongs posts the chestnut increased his
lead from 10 lengths or so to quite 20
lengths ; some observers made it more.
There was no logical reason for calling
on him for such a tremendous effort at
such a stage. Had that amazing run
been kept for the straight, Cup chroniclers
would have written another name down
on their records.
The great two-mile handicap at Flem-
ington is terribly severe on generous
horses. Lord Cardigan’s exertions in the
1904 Cup killed him. Lord Nolan
(1908), Posinatus (1913), Sister Olive
(1921), Statesman (1928) and other Cup
winners never won another race, and it
seems very likely that the same will
have to be recorded of Marabou (1935).
In the circumstances it seems tempting
fate to give Young Crusader a summer
campaign. The writer cannot recall any
previous instance of a horse having been
trained for distance races in winter,
spring and summer the same year.
A sporting medico is never tired of in-
sisting that if too much is demanded of a
horse in a particular race or series of
races his heart goes and he is never
the same again.
His theory will be thoroughly tested if
Young Crusader is started in the Summer
and Tattersall’s Cups, as is evidently the
intention.
The touts say he looks all right, and
he has been galloping freely enough.
But horses with which it has become a
practice to try to break up the. field —
incidentally, Knox rode Young Crusader
in quite a different fashion in the Winter
Plate—suffer for it, sooner or later.
It seems advisable to leave Young
Crusader well alone until there is good
reason to believe that his Cup race did
not permanently damage him.
Some horses are at their best when the
going is heavy ; some at their worst. In
this matter experience is the only safe
guide to the punter. It is risky to argue
from breeding or even action.
There are not many Magpies racing
now. When there were it used to be
said and believed that “Magpies are no
good in heavy going.” This was true of
some Magpies, but by no means of all.
Nobody can say that Windbag ever
lost a race because he couldn’t gallop in
the mud. Nor was the alleged weakness
transmitted to Windbag’s finest son.
Up to a mile and a quarter Aus-
tralia has rarely seen a better wet-
weather horse than Magpie’s grandson
Chatham. Chatham won the Doncaster
on a muddy track with lOst. 41b.: the
greatest performance in the history of
that race.
Heavy going sometimes gives an ad-
vantage to a quick beginner who does
best when he makes his own running.
FOUR MORE ENGLISH CRICKETERS.
Fagg, Ames, Alien (the successful skipper ) and Verity.
If clods are kicked up he escapes them.
He will tire, no doubt, but the others
may tire more chasing him. A lead of
some lengths in the straight when weary
horses are galloping fetlock deep in mire
—or it seems like that —is often decisive.
* * * *
The owner of Talking has had an-
other opportunity of gassing to press-
men. Last week he told them that, by
“mutual agreement” with Papworth, the
colt was to go into Fred Williams’s
stables at Randwick —or rather “my own
stables, which are occupied by Williams.”
“Talking’s high insurance,” it seems, in-
fluenced his decision, though how the
horse could be less safe at Rosehill than
at Randwick is hard to understand.
Fred Williams is, of course, a competent
trainer, but he has been fortunate in get-
ting control of horses that have been
developed from yearlings by other
trainers. Chatham was a previous out-
standing example.
M.Q. and Rafferty
When Simpson, the American heavy-
weight, limped into the Sydney Stadium
ring to fight Rosenbloom —he swears he
was forced to do it —the third-last
chapter in the history of the “National”
Boxing “Club” was written. Refused
another bout with Rosenbloom, Simpson
sued the “club” for breach of contract
and was awarded substantial damages.
An immediate result was the resignation
of the manager “to attend to urgent
private business.” Last week it came
out that the “club” had gone into liquida-
tion, and that the liquidator was seeing
to all arrangements for the Henneberry-
Richards mill. It is to be hoped that
the gentleman sees the humor of the
situation. Everyone else does, bar mem-
bers of the “club” and pugs.
* * * *
“Young” Kimber and Hobbs, both
promising lightweights, fought a draw at
Leichhardt one night last week. Both
are stiff punchers, and Kimber had
Hobbs down for “nine” at one stage. He
recovered, and squared the points with
an accurate left.
Ins and Outs
Odds were freely laid on Australia
walking away with the first Test match
at Brisbane. The. prophets were con-
founded ; England won by 321, having
out-batted, out-bowled and out-generalled
the home side, which lost McCormick’s
bowling early in the game—unfortunate
but probably indecisive.
England increased its first innings lead
of 124 to 380. Australia lost Fingleton
for a duck off the first ball of its second
try, and the side retired into seclusion
next morning for a total of 58. The
wicket was said to be rain-damaged.
Verity, the greatest bowler of the day on
a sticky pitch, was not called upon ; Allen
(5 for 36) and Voce (4 for 16), both fast
bowlers and therefore theoretically in-
effective on such wickets, doing the work.
Badcock and Bradman both failed to
score. Chipperfield, using the long
handle, was 26 n.o.
The game was full of fluctuations. In
general, the Englishmen recovered from
disaster better than their rivals. This
was particularly the case with Allen, who
in each innings stopped a likely rout with
badly-needed shots of 35 and 68, while
he took 8 for 107. His captaincy was an
object-lesson to Bradman, who has yet
something to learn in this respect.
“Lansdowne”: Vic Richardson was
broadcasting when England’s second
innings closed on Monday, and he filled
up two or three minutes of the interval
by speculating whether Bradman would
change the batting order, seeing that
there were only 15 minutes left for play
and the light was none too good. For
his own part, he said, he had never be-
lieved in taking such a step in similar
circumstances. The regular openers were
far more likely to keep up their ends
under adverse conditions than batsmen
lower down the. list suddenly promoted.
But the theory, however sound, worked
out badly in this instance. Fingleton and
Badcock came in, and the former, the
century-maker of the first innings, fell to
the very first ball from Voce. The loss
of a tail-ender’s wicket at this stage,
especially when appeals against the light
were being made every minute, would
have mattered little or nothing to the
Australians; the skittling of Fingleton’s
stumps might have mattered everything.
“Tenth Slip”: Every time Australia
gets stonkered on a wet wicket in this
country —and that means whenever there
is a wet wicket —a bellow goes up that
our men must be given more practice on
sticky pitches. Nothing is ever done, and
the result is that we have produced of
late years a class of specialists who can
bat only on billiard tables and who de-
pend on batsmen to get themselves out.
Covering the wicket, save in the rarely-
occurring Tests, is, of course, the cause
of all the trouble. Before that was done
we had dozens of sticky-wicket experts


K
THIS XMAS. BEGIN
A YEAR-ROUND HOLIDAY
FROM TYRE TROUBLE
What’s it be —risk a Xmas tour spoilt by old worn
tyres or spend a little money now instead of later ?
The 100% economical thing to do is to fit big, husky
Dunlop Weftless Cord Tyres rightaway —then it will
be a long time before you have to spend any more
tyre money ! Dunlop will still be sound and road-
gripping when other tyres would be ready for the
discard. Look around—forget the words—check
up the facts—no other tyres can give you these
advantages.
The 48% greater non-skid mileage provided
by pounds more and tougher rubber in the
tread.
38 I-30
Y7i
m
. •
The 12% cooler running and the 52%
longer casing life given by Weftless Cord
(an improvement exclusive to Dunlop
interests in Australia).
•tvf»
<^c» sUt c,t&'
U°
tv»
\oC-»
a Tt*
ttv e
& IVO
DUNLOP
Weftless cord tyres
both with ball and bat', but gate con-
siderations override all else.
“Gabba”: Fingleton stopped a nice
trot when he made a duck in his second
try at Brisbane. His hundred in the first
innings was his fourth consecutive Test
century, the others having been made in
South Africa in the third, fourth and
fifth Tests there.
“Aunt Sally”: Oldfield, whom many
thought due for retirement, put up one
of the finest shows of his career with
the gloves in the first Test in Brisbane,
dismissing six batsmen. This brings his
total killings for Tests with England to
85, topping the long-standing figures of
Lilley by one. In all matches for Aus-
tralia, Oldfield has taken 125 wickets.
This match was his thirty-fourth Test
with England.
“Gate”: There was a close resem-
blance between the game that Brad-
man’s XI lost and the one in Brisbane
in 1928. On that occasion Australia
was left a big fourth-innings score to
make—in that case over 700. In the
night, after Ponsford had lost his wicket,
it rained, and next morning left-hander
White hunted them all back to the
pavilion for 66 ; Woodfull, with 30 n. 0.,
being the only man to face the bowling,
as Chipperfield did, with 26 n. 0., this
time.
* * * *
“Stanley”: A Saturday attendance of
over 30,000, a record for a Brisbane
match, lifted a load off the shoulders of
the Q.C.A., since £3562 was taken and
the cost of the whole match is estimated
at £3500. Queensland pays all expenses
af the players on both sides, and the
English rake-off as a team is a bob a
nob. The match has always shown a
good profit. The first, against Chapman's
side, netted £l6BO ; the second, against
Jardine and co., £4102. Profit and loss is
entirely a matter for the State associa-
tion, a sufficient answer to those who
advance as an argument against Tests in
Brisbane that the profits would be much
higher in Sydney or Melbourne.
“Five Ways”: Undaunted by the cata-
strophe in Brisbane the selectors have
picked the same 12 Australians to play in
the Test at Sydney, which kicks off on
December 18. To many this seems sheer
defiance of the public opinion, which
questioned some of the original selec-
tions. On the other hand, it is only a
fair thing to give the failures a second
trial before starting to swing the axe. If
they take it lying down, as they did in
Brisbane, experiments can begin. There
will be three more matches, anyway.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Badcock is only the fourth
Tasmanian to figure in Test cricket; the
others were Burn, Eady and McDonald.
Of these, Burn and Eady were picked
direct off the apple-tree, so to speak,
McDonald having to go to Victoria for
recognition, and Badcock to S. Aus.
Nash, who played with Australia against
South Africa while living in Tassie, was
a Cabbage Gardener. Bailey, of the
legendary 1878 Australian XI, came into
the team from Tassie, but was not born
there.
* * * *
“Skip”: A lot of folk dissatisfied with
Bradman’s handling of field and bowlers
in the Australian XI and first Test
matches against the Englishmen are ol
opinion that a little more study under an
expert would not hurt him, while it would
give him a chance to think about nowt
else but making runs. Now that Wood-
full has gone, Richardson, still in the
Sheffield class, is the favored choice.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida and Rich-
ardson are early in the field with a chal-
lenge to Kirkwoed and Hagen, who are
supposed to be leaving the U.S.A. for
these part's this week. A stake of £5O a
side is suggested. Von Nida has a side-
wager win against Sarazen to his credit
at Brisbane in the first match of its kind
played in Australia. When Kirkwood
and Hagen were here last time they
played several matches against profes-
sionals, but for gate-money only.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: It is not unlikely that
Sydney golf will soon see mixed singles
to replace the wearisome mixed four-
somes and four-ballers which at present
offer women players their only chance
of pitting themselves against men. It is
suggested that the associate players be
limited to those with a 12 or better han-
dicap, and that they play from the back
tees, receiving the difference in handicap
of the scratch scores for men and
women. Though many men are back-
ing the notion, there is sure to be oppo-
sition from a big section of the sterner
sex. Many of these would sooner drink
water at the nineteenth than give their
game away by competing in public with
an associate.
“Gailes”: For some reason the three-
year-old Queensland close championship
has not been popular among players,
probably the fact that a solitary fiver is
put up as a reward for the winner in
addition to a posh pot having some-
thing to do with it. However, there was
a fair muster of professionals, to whom
a title is always useful, and the thing
was won by E. W. Anderson, with a
card of 144 one better than V. O.
Walker, a previous holder. Anderson
and the third player Want are both
Caddies’ Cup winners.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Few outside, the
initiated realise the deadly feuds which
spring from golf, and it is a constant sur-
prise to me that more corpses of cad-
dies and players are not found buried
in bunkers. The veil has been slightly
lifted by some legal proceedings in which
a Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) player sued
another, claiming £SO for wrongful de-
tention and deprivation of one golf ball
whereby he was deprived of the possi-
bility of winning a competition. The
pair were playing in a four-baller, and
one twice drove over and interfered
with his opponent’s play. The second
timo the outraged opponent took a swipe
at the pill, and its sepulchre is some-
where in the cavernous gorges of those
parts. The case was settled by payment
into court of 10s. and a denial of the
charges and insinuations by all con-
cerned.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: If the N.S.W. birth-
day crowd won’t invite a party of pro-
fessional golfers to Australia as a feature
of the spree (B. 9/12/’36), the N.S.W.
golfing heads will. They are talking of
Cotton and Padgham, and no doubt wish
they could get them. Both earn incomes
running into two or three thousand a
year and both are under contract to clubs.
The distance to Australia and back would
take so much time to cover that the in-
vited guests would of necessity have to
charge far higher fees than the N.S.W.
body would think of paying.
* # * *
C. M. Shaw, who has been manager of
the Metropolitan golf club, Oakleigh, for
13 years, is retiring. A widely-known
banker in Albury and Goulburn, he
was lured into golf as an amateur
official. In his country days he had much
to do with racing and was on the com-
mittee of Tirrana Picnic R.C., the oldest
sporting club in Australia. Metropolitan
has made him a life member and doubt-
less his successor, W. J. Ryan, of the
Eastern G.C., will be glad to get a few
tips from him on occasion.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Bromwich’s long tussle
with Crawford in the final of the N.S.W.
tennis championship gave spectators a
good idea of his very mixed methods.
Serving with the right, he hits his fore-
hand with the left and, like McGrath,
puts two paws to his backhand, volley-
ing and smashing with the right again.
He is to be congratulated on having dis-
carded a tendency to “temperament”
which had something to do with his being
passed over for the last Davis Cup team.
He should be a good “draw” in the
U.S.A. and Britain if he goes there, as
he almost certainly will.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The A.L.T.A. has found
another excuse for refusing to send a
team of girls to Europe next year. The
excuse is that Australia is bound to send
a team to play for the International
Women’s Cup, “which is likely to com-
mence in 1938,” some eight nations hav-
ing agreed to take part, and that a 1937
tour would jamb this up. But the 1938
tourney is only problematical to date, and
the 1937 tour would speedily resolve itself
into a fact if the A.L.T.A. loosened the
wraps. As it is, a flop between two
stools is indicated.
Jp * * *
“Sturt”: S.A.L.T.A. has obtained from
the City of Adelaide, an extended lease
for 21 years of its slice of the parklands
just outside the oval, with also some
addition to its present ground. The idea
is to spend up to £IO,OOO on extra courts,
and a real grandstand for international
matches to replace the present makeshift
affair. Opinions in the City
bate on the matter varied from “No
taking away the parklands from the
public!” to “This is using them just as
Colonel Light intended” ; with a cautious
majority on the fence arguing “Encroach-
ments may become dangerous —but this
is not one to worry about.”
:p ❖ *
“Pat-a-Cake”: What must have been
a record marathon tennis match for
N.S.W. took place in a hardcourt tour-
ney down Illawarra way. Hestelow and


Only fheffiSMETwas accuraie
Io a recent independent test of tyre gauges—one out of
53 was found to be completely accurate. That one was
the KISMET And little wonder, for behind the production
of every KISMET gauge is an experience as old as the
motor-car industry. The utmost care in manufacture, and
frequent testing, produce a tyre gauge which is really
worthy of the name.
'A Qauge is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading
KOSMEI^e
Faultlessly finished in plated metals; with wide,
flat reading surfaces calibrated in lib. units indi-
vidually numbered.
Complete in neat, leather wallet 8/6
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne. C.l.
Ķ
K
Ķ
u
BRANDALERS
m
C++
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a brandaoer * co. ud, Birmingham. eng
6<r.v
THE
HMITCniNSURANCE
(Jill I CU COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0 DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
*SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, C.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Viet
ENGINE TROUBLES /
-install neu) Champions
W
1
/
It is false economy to keep sparking plugs
in your engine too long. They become fouled
their sparks are weak — and result in
carbon formation — and your engine be-
comes sluggish and expensive to operate.
Practise REAL economy. Install new '
Champions once'every year.
Kc
§■■ 1 • Sparking
Champion Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOR. CANADA • ■ AN EMPIRE PRODUCT
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
<WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
With a car like mine
it 's nothing but the Best
SSSX
-
- o;-.
-
HI
that's why I pay
more For VALVOLIHE
Frankly I'm a car enthusiast . . .
Naturally I'm a crank on oil, I've
tried 'em all, but I'll never change
from Valvoline.
I like the sealed tin idea too, it pro-
tects the oil from substitution, adul-
teration, dirt and short measure.
Ask your garageman."
K
SEALED MOTOR OILS
AND GREASES
AQV.OF J.CARDIGAN. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE AND THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
Pople dragged their way through a set
which ran to 30-28, with a match score
of 143 games. The pair had previously
played in 96 games in a match. They
are evidently specialists over the dis-
tances.
He * * *
“Cut Shot”: N.S.W. Country “Carni-
val,” which began life in 1910 as Country
Tennis Week, has grown out of knowledge
and now takes a fortnight to complete,
being down this time from January 4 to
16. The first year only a men’s teams
match was played, Goulburn winning.
Then the men’s singles championship and
a women’s teams match were, added, to
be followed by women’s singles, women’s
doubles and mixed doubles. Lastly came
junior singles and doubles championships
for boys and girls. Three country cham-
pions won to Davis Cup selection ; Todd
in 1921, Kalms in 1924 and Sproule in
1932.
MisceHcmcous
“Shrewsbury”: The Oxford-Cambridge
Rugby match at Twickenham ended in a
win for the Light Blues by 6-5 —two tries
to one, converted. The Oxford team was
skippered by a Maorilander, Cooper;
as a set-off Campbell, of King’s, Sydney,
played with the Light Blues. Oxford has
held much the same ascendancy in these
games of late years as Cambridge has
done in the boatrace. This will be rowed
on March 24 and, perhaps, this time the
luck will turn. Several Australian rowers
are being tried for one crew or the other.
* H: * *
“Fitzcray”: The Brownlow medal,
supposed to be the pride and joy of Vic-
torian League footbrawl, had mud cast
upon it at the annual meeting of Fitzroy
club, which had a very bad time last
year. A disgruntled speaker said the
medal, offered for the best and fairest
player in the League, had turned players
into individuals who fought for lime-
light. He added that Fitzroy’s awful
showing last year was largely due to
every player aspiring to be a medallist.
* H= * *
“Gate”: One alarming aspect of the
Constitutional crisis which has not been
overlooked by the Sydney Rugby League
press is that a change of monarchs
means a change of the King’s Birthday
holiday from the football to the cricket
season, from June 23 to December
14. In Sydney, the Birthday has always
been the League’s great festival date on
which a match with Queensland or an
English team is played. The death of
King George caused the entire rearrange-
ment of the last English tour to ensure
a Sydney Test on the new Birthday, but
short of Parliament gazetting a new
winter holiday for the League’s benefit
—which might have been done a few
years ago—the ordinary Saturdays will
have to do.
* H= H= *
“Spike”: Paavo Nurmi has been going
for the woman athlete. Paavo says it
makes him sick to see an attractive
female indulging in ungainly contor-
tions in public ; he reckons the sex ought
to stick to swimming in sport and let it
go at that. I agree. I once watched a
pretty girl at Sydney Sports Ground sit-
ting on the grass while she put in five
minutes of solid work with make-up and
lipstick. Then her turn to show in the
javelin event came, and in a few seconds
the attractive make-up was effaced by a
hideously contorted low-comedy mask,
which would have won the lady first
prize for grinning through a horse-
collar at a Lancashire wake.
*** . *
“Splash”: The U.S.A. shipping strike
is holding up Medica, who has little
chance of being in Sydney for N.S.W.’s
share of the Australian championships
in January. It is possible that he may
come in time to show in the other States
and compete in the N.S.W. champion-
ships after the Australian events.
* # * *
“Splash”: Westralian swimmers are
fed up with the prevailing method of
selecting Olympic teams. They want a
vote taken by the States on the question
of allowing each sport to pick its own
members and coaches and be responsible
for the expenses. If this isn’t done, the
Westralians will withdraw from the Aus-
tralian Olympic Federation and chance
the ducks. But, going on past perform-
ance, each State would select every
athlete in sight, and the total result
would overflow the Queen Mary.
* * # *
“Toowong”: Queensland oarsmen are
divided on the question of sticking to the
old method of sending the winner of the
State championship eights to the King’s
Cup race —to be rowed in Adelaide this
time —or selecting a composite crew.
The latter method is favored by many,
but the trouble is that in the North
members of many country clubs are in
the running for selection. In the past
this was got over by sending Wide Bay
or whatever country club won the cham-
pionship to row for the State. A com-
posite crew will mean that men from
these clubs with claims for selection will
have to be passed over or come down to
Brisbane to train with the rest of the
crew, perhaps for weeks.
* * * *
“Shore”: The G.P.S. rowing regatta
will be later than usual in N. S. Wales
next year. It had been intended to row
it in April, but a clash of dates caused
the R.A. to ask for a change of date, and
Saturday, May 1, has been approved.
The Nepean will be the venue, and in
view of the great success of the func-
tion there early this year it is unlikely
the schools will ever go back to the tidal
Parramatta. There was a time when
G.P.S. oarsmen were little heard of after
leaving school. There has been a marked
change in the past few years, and the
North Shore crew which recently won
the Challenge eights at Henley-on-Yarra
was made up almost entirely of ex-school
oarsmen.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOVRETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
Lionel Barrymore's Female Impersonation
Is Week's Highlight .
Best entertainment among the nine talkies that made their Australian
debut last week (“Sing, Baby, Sing” was reviewed B. 111111’36) is
provided by “The Devil-Doll,” a cleverly-presented fantasy in which
Lionel Barrymore adds to his laurels by masquerading as an elderly lady.
“Everything Is Thunder,” a war drama ; “Dishonor Bright,” a Tom Walls
bedroom comedy ; “Daniel Boone,” a semi-historical romance; “Mister
Cinderella,” a farce; “The Girl on the Front Page,” a newspaper story ;
and “Guard that Girl,” “White Lilac” and “The Case of the Black Cat ”
mystery thrillers, will all be very soon forgotten.
"The Devil-Doll."
LIVING-DOLL MAKERS .... Lionel
Barrymore; Rafaela Ottiano
INVENTOR H. B. Walthall
BANKERS R. Greig; A Hohl;
Pedro de Cordoba
LOVERS Maureen O’Sullivan ;
Frank Lawton
A twentieth-century fairy-tale that
makes an interesting and effective screen
play. Two prisoners escape from
Devil’s Island — one an ex-banker
who lives to revenge himself on three
traitorous associates, the other a half-
crazy inventor who has discovered how
to reduce living beings to one-eighth size.
In this miniature condition they are
warm but motionless. They can be
brought to life by any human will and
made to do that will’s bidding. The
inventor dies. The ex-banker joins the
inventor’s widow in the manufacture of
the weird dolls, disguising himself as an
old woman. He uses the dolls to wreak
vengeance on two of his former asso-
ciates and to extort a full confession
from a third. Still as an old woman he
watches over the welfare of his young
daughter, who works in a laundry, and
her sweetheart, who drives a taxi.
The fantasy demonstrates once again
Lionel Barrymore’s gifts as a character
actor. His impersonation of an old
woman is excellent; in the creation of an
eerie and fantastic atmosphere he is ably
seconded by Miss Ottiano. The young
folk in the cast play their parts cleverly
and with spirit.
The trick photography that presents
human dolls climbing .up stairs, creep-
ing into beds and hovering under chairs
to commit thefts or deal out paralysis
Chut in ring with Harry Abdy in “The
Orphan of the Wilderness,” at Sydney
Lyceum.
by means of a poisoned dagger is well
done, though it does not make such
scenes convincing. The weakness of all
such excursions of imagination is that
they transcend experience by too great a
degree. However, the yarn is unfolded
in a way that holds attention, and is
ended smoothly and prettily. At Sydney
Cameo.
"Mister Cinderella."
GOOF Jack Haley
SOCIETY BUD Betty Furness
HEAVY FATHER .. Raymond ftyalburn
BUTLER Arthur Treacher
Eddie Cantor’s appearances being
wisely restricted to one per annum Mr.
Haley, another ex-
ponent of round-
eyed half-wittery,
gets an occasional
innings. In this
one he is a young
barber, bitten by
the society bug,
who is given a
chance to imper-
sonate a young
millionaire at a
house party. He
falls into water,
sets houses on fire,
is shut into bed-
rooms with strange
women, flees from
assassins and winds
up, as a reward for
all these queer
capers, as the
fiance of the
society bud and
the only million-
aire in the bunch
—all the rest are
bankrupt. Treacher
Reginald Owen in “The Suicide Club,”
at Sydney Mayfair.
gets into an entirely new role; he’s
the motor in a mystery car, and
maintains his melancholy dignity and
his bowler hat even in that metamor-
phosis. The rest of the humor is also
mechanical. At Sydney Cameo.
"Daniel Boone."
DAN’L George O’Brien
HIS GYURL Heather Angel
FEROCIOUS RENEGADE,
John Carradine
SHYSTER LAWYER .. Ralph Forbes
Eighteenth-century pioneer and fron-
tiersman Daniel Boone set out from
North Carolina with an expedition to
found a colony beyond the Cumberlands.
That bald historical fact has been blended
with some attractive fiction to make this
satisfying outdoor-action film.
Dan’l, prior to heading out, captures
one Girty, a ferocious white renegade,
leader of a murderous band of Injuns. A
boneheaded commissioner sets him free,
which doesn’t stop Dan from horsewhip-
ping the bad man out of town. After
divers hardships Boone reaches the Ken-
tucky valley and builds a stockade, only
to receive notice to quit from corrupt
officials in Virginia, who have filed claims
to the rich lands themselves and had
them incorporated in their State. Boone’s
sole satisfaction for being sold this ex-
pensive pup is a hearty slog at the sub-
commissioner’s jaw. Meanwhile the
renegade, spurred on by his hatred of
Boone, rounds up the redskins and
attacks the stockade, but a providential
thunderstorm scatters the superstitious
braves when all seems lost. A final all-
in between Girty and Dan’l can only
end one way. But even in those days the.
politicians came out top dog, and the
stout-hearted Dan, urged by ambition,
mush and mosquitoes, again followed the
westering sun. Yes —his strong hand is
clasped in her little one.
George O’Brien revels in a he-man role
and shamelessly displays a naked torso
that would make N. S. Wales’s pure Mr.
Spooner blush furiously. John Carra-
dine is a lean and hungry-looking villain,
and Ralph Forbes a smug lawyer.
Heather Angel qualifies for the heavenly
throng on looks rather than acting ability.
At Sydney Capitol.
"Guard That Girl."
DETECTIVES,
Robert Allen and Ward Bond
THEIR SECRETARY .. Florence Rice
ATTORNEY Wyrley Birch
HEIRESS Barbara Kent
PEPPERY AUNT .. Elizabeth Risdon
Although the long bow is drawn at
times (it is also used to fire a murderous-
looking big-game-hunting arrow), this
mystery thriller is well-constructed and
brightly-handled.
A couple of private detectives in part-
nership land the job of guarding an
heiress for three days—if she is still alive
at the end of that time a herd of sus-
picious-looking relatives will see a for-
tune slip beyond their clutching fingers.
The secretary substitutes for the heiress,
whom the relatives have never seen.
Mysterious attacks
are foiled by three
sleuths right up to
the prescribed
minute for the
heiress to collect,
immediately fo 1-
lowing which a
large police hound
lands the unlikely
villain. The sur-
prise has been well
kept and doesn’t
unduly strain
credulity. Romance
is not ignored ;
both detectives
reap rewards other
than monetary
ones.
Acting is
smoothly efficient.
Robert Allen is
suitably snappy at
deduction and
Ward Bond’s pug-
nacity is an asset-
The girls make
beauty and brains look a natural com-
bination. Elizabeth Risdon’s portrait of
a domineering aunt is a highlight. At
Sydney Capitol.
"Dishonor Bright."
CO RESPONDENT Tom Walls
DIVORCEE Diana Churchill
WIFE OF COUNSEL FOR
PETITIONER .... Betty Stockfeld
A BLACKMAILER .... Eugene Pallette
A Ben Travers comedy, directed by
Tom Walls. Construction rather better
than in the last previous half-dozen
Travers pot-boilers. The sophisticated
co-re., operating his satyr-like wink even
in the witness-box, brings down on him-
self torrents of invective from the out-
raged moralist who represents the peti-
tioner. Then, to show that he is a
thorough English gentleman, he marries
the divorced lady, though by now in
love with the lawyer’s attractive wife.
That lady is trapped into compromising
circumstances by blackmailers, and in
extricating her the co-re., gives her hus-
band every reason for believing the
worst. However, the lawyer turns out to
be a thorough English gentleman, too,
so it all. ends as lightly as a comedy
should.
Action is too slow, a fault of almost
all English screen comedies. Walls makes
his entrances to appropriate music, with
a pause for an ovation, just as he used
to do when starring in musical comedy,
but the fact can’t be disguised that he’s
getting too old to play leading juvenile.
Miss Churchill extracts some fun from a
bad coad id her dose, Pallette’s 16 stone
of villainy pulls all its weight, and the
audience gets many a chance to chuckle.
At Sydney State.
"The Case of the Black Cat."
PERRY MASON Ricardo Cortez
Some impression of logical construc-
tion is given by the printed works of Mr.
S. Van Dine dealing with lawyer-sleuth
Perry Mason, and in talkies where
Warren William has represented Mason
the vigorous eccentricity of the charac-
ter has been so well limned that hiatuses
in plot development have been of little
moment. But the, mildly-melancholy,
gentle-mannered Mr. Cortez fails to gloss
over the absurdities of this latest Van
Dine scenario. A man’s cat was taken
from him before he was murdered.
Knowing this the murderer procured an-
other cat and induced it to walk through
the blood, to fasten guilt on the cat-ab-
ductor. In the case of another murder
(homicides cluster in these fantasias as
thickly as blackberries) a villain discov-
ering the body immediately flies to the
apartment of an enemy, and sprinkles
blood on his clothes. Subsequently it is
discovered that one of the murders was
committed by an old man who was sup-
posed to have been himself assassinated
early in the proceedings. The only theory
that can be arrived at concerning Mr.
Mason-Cortez’s methods of solving these
intricate mysteries is that he had read the
book, and therefore knew all about them.
The cat also is badly cast. It is a pale-
grey tabby. At Sydney State.
"Everything is Thunder."
ESCAPED PRISONER OF WAR,
Douglass Montgomery
STREET-WALKER, Constance Bennett
DETECTIVE Oscar Homolka
A Canadian officer who escapes from
a German prison-camp, killing a sentry,
reaches Berlin after many narrow squeaks
and is taken under the wing of a Lilith
who believes him to be a wounded Ger-
man soldier. Officer falls in love with
the lady, whose mutual affection stands
the shock of discovering that he belongs
to the, opposite army, and she plans to
get him out of the country. The biggest
snag is a suspicious detective who adores
her. However, a butter smuggler aids
the lass and her lover to reach the Dutch
frontier, and though the detective
arrives on the scene, and there is shoot-
ing in which the girl is injured, the de-
tective, realising that this is true lurv,
allows the pair to escape and then com*-
mits hara-kiri. J. L. Hardy, from whose
Mr. Frankenstein dancing with Mr. Hyde
in “Sing, Baby, Sing,” at Sydney Regent.
novel the film is taken, wound the story
up less banally.
Acting is excellent. Montgomery gives
a tense study of a man perpetually
haunted by fear of capture ; Miss Bennett
steers delicately between sentimentality


That’s what I call
a sensible present!
m
%
§9
£
Si
SSSS
5S
#
>ss^
SSSC£
ts
Q
Vs
5S
§
?/
§
*
§
§
K
!S
m
/*=*
osratb
in
i
w-
ff^
«With love from Tom, eh? If if s
another spotted tie, Til cut him out of
my will!”
“ Well, give the poor hoy a chance. You
haven’t seen what it is he’s sent you, yet.
Cigarettes, for Christmas presents—of course.
But not just any cigarettes. Make it du Maurier
—the cigarette with the filter tip that reveals the
innermost fragrance of fine Virginia. Make it a
luxury present as well as a sensible one.
Make it a
du Maurier Christmas
r
" A hundred du Maurier! Ha, boy’s got more
sense than 1 thought! ”
“ Yes, and you can tell him that Mother likes
them too.”
K
du MAURI ER
CIGARETTES WITH THE FILTER TIP
for 50 • 7-b for 100
MADE IN LONDON
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 217 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I.
M.C.3
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD., 185 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY,
and sordidness ; Homolka almost makes
the impossible detective feasible. Pre-
viewed at Film House, Sydney.
"The Girl ©n the Front Page."
WISECRACKING EDITOR,
Edmund Lowe
GOIL REPORTER Gloria Stewart
BLACKMAILING BUTLER,
Reginald Owen
The yarn is a tangled one about a
rich and beautiful young goil who in-
herits a newspaper —and its managing
editor. For some reason or other she
disguises herself and takes a job as a
reporter on her own paper, and the
editor treats her most cruelly ; so after
the editor has rescued her from Biddle
the blackmailing butler they get married.
Mr. Lowe, surpasses himself in the
velocity and frequency with which he
emits hard-boiled comments and retorts,
Miss Stewart oscillates continually be-
tween cold rage and doting affection and
Mr. Owen brightens the proceedings with
a picture of a very entertaining rascal.
At Sydney Regent.
"White Lilac."
SUSPECTS, Judy Gunn and Gwenn Jill
DETECTIVE INSPECTOR,
Percy Marmont
VICTIM Leslie Perrin
PRIZE NUISANCE .. Claude Dumpier
Plot of this f.a.q. conventional murder
film follows the well-worn track of the
roue who, clad in exotic pyjamas, breaks
feminine hearts lightly and listens with
half-closed eyes to voluptuous music ac-
companied by an obbligato of heart-
rending sobs. He practises a little mild
blackmail on the side. Two innocent
females get into his clutches: one is the
fiancee of- an acquaintance of his, the
other the daughter of the detective-in-
spector who is called in when roue is
done to death. Clues lead to the fiancee
and then switch to the d.-i.’s girlie. But
there’s no need to worry —they were both
in the flat at the time and self-defence
lets ’em both out. But what of papa’s
official standing? The noble fellow grits
his teeth and takes it on the chin.
Percy Marmont is sound as a ferreter
of clues; Leslie Perrin looks suitably
blase as a Lothario; Judy Gunn and
Gwenn Jill sob convincingly and look
charming enough to arouse interest in
any rake ; and Claude Dampier adds his
special brand of idiocy in an effort to
offset the lachrymation. At Sydney
Lyric,
"Where the Power God
Dwells."
One travels from Sydney in an oil-
tanker to the East Indies. Native houses,
markets, Mohammedan funeral proces-
sion, naked boys swimming (Oh, Mr.
Spooner!), and a monkey clad in a hip-
to-toe skirt (Ah, Mr. Spooner!). In these
surroundings the Vacuum Oil Co. sank 98
bores and £4,000,000 before it struck oil.
In the film the process of oil refining
is explained, and the huge Vacuum plant
is contrasted with a jungle-drowned
Hindu temple.
Preceding the. main film was shown
one of a Bali temple dance, which in-
volved a Tiger God, horde of masked
demons and boys, who in their ecstasy
did some queer balancing with swords.
Shown one night last week at the
Orpheum, North Sydney.
Amateur Film-makers Show
Their Paces.
Histrionically, the three 16mm. films
submitted in the Jacobs Cup competi-
tion by members of the Australian Ama-
teur Cine Society could have been better,
but they were technically commendable
achievements, particularly R. Booth’s
pot-winning “Sugar and Spice.” Of re-
markably even texture throughout photo-
graphically, the film revealed an appre-
ciation of the value of intercutting and
angle shots lacking in some professional
importations. “Moods of the Sea,” an
imaginative study in contrasts, and “The
Three Adventurers,” which held as many
chuckles as the average one-reel make-
weight, were both notable for the beauty
of their outdoor settings.
Results achieved by these amateurs in
color are particularly fine. A brace of
offerings in Kodachrome screened in
conjunction with the competition films
were both technically and artistically of
a very high standard.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
In their show of “Old Sydney etchings
and other works” at David Jones’s gal-
lery, Sydney, Lionel Lindsay and Sydney
Ure Smith demonstrate in a peculiarly
impressive fashion the difference between
the graphic art and photography. A
photograph of any part of Sydney in,
say, 1860 looks as dead and depressing
as a stale flounder on a fishmonger’s
slab. Limned by the pencil or graver’s
point of a Lindsay or a Smith the same
scene takes on chirpy life. The sun shines,
there is bustle and ado. The Sydney de-
picted is not apologising for being poor
and squalid, but quite proud of itself —
a jolly, friendly sort of a town that has
forgotten a murky past and is looking
forward to a lively future. And not only
are these spirited drawings physically
alive, but many of them do, in some
magical way, bring to life again a mood
and an atmosphere. Lionel Lindsay’s
aquatint “St. John’s, Darlinghurst,” is a
case in point; Smith’s etching “Mus-
grave-street” is another.
There are 360 pictures in this show
(which, incidentally, includes the best
of Lionel Lindsay’s woodcuts and Span-
ish etchings), and to attempt to describe
them individually is no task for this
Page. It only remains to be said that
no lover of Sydney or of good draughts-
manship and good etching should miss
this exhibition. It is an education alike
in the archaeology of the city and the
technique of the arts represented.
•i* *i* 4*
The cocktail bar at Melbourne’s Hotel
Australia heard more giggles than usual
when Ray Whiting’s cartoons and carica-
tures were showing last week. The car-
toons had a laugh in every line, and, in
spite of the poor light, a bar wasn’t a
bad place to hang them. An elaborate
Australian beach scene merited close
study—and repaid it with chuckle after
chuckle, although Sydney’s Mr. Spooner
would not approve the Whiting costumes
or the Whiting antics. There was biting
satire in “Cocktails,” “Suburbia’s
Return” and “Superior Love” ; the first
caught the curious expressions at a cock-
tail party in full swing, the second showed
father, mother, son and daughter heavy
with the affectation that hangs on some
people after a trip abroad, and the third
was a supercilious “society” wedding
group. A keen observer, Whiting com-
bines a sense of fine drawing with the
play of his leaping wit.
SOME FIRST NIGHTS.
Following half a week of “Patience,”
with Ivan Menzies as Fleshly Poet Bun-
thorne, Saturday night’s audience at Syd-
ney Royal greeted “Iolanthe” as an old
and trusty friend.
Mr. Menzies cavorted gaily as the
Lord Chancellor, and Evelyn Hall was
the Fairy Queen. Eileen Kelly was
attractive in the title role, and Winifred
Lawson as Phyllis was in good voice.
•b *b *b *b
“Smiling Through,” current offering at
Sydney’s Kursaal Theatre, is a slice off
the joint of the old roast-beef drama.
Its mellow sentiment is gravy, and its
gentle humor a dash of sauce. Scott
Alexander’s production was among the
best things he has done in his Kent-street
playhouse. As two bumptious old fogies
John Russell and Raymond Irons
wrangled peppily, and in a dual role
Beverley Myles combined old-world
naivete and madcappish sophistication in
pleasing fashion. Ron Folkard played
father and son with equal facility, an<i
Helen Terry spoke her word or twp
pleasantly.


WE OFFER/
WHAT
Most
jit
WENTWORTH ftotel
People
Deiire
Homely ' com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney.
BRIDGE PARK
SYDNEY
8W1361
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUR FOR
THE DISCRIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heering’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Stores in Bottles and l Bottles.
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to the Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1760 of 1936.
BETWEEN ETHEL ELIZABETH BARBE
Petitioner
And REUBEN WILLIAM BARBE Re-
spondent.
TO REUBEN WILLIAM BARBE late ot
Quirindi in the State of New South Waies
but whose address is now unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
ETHEL ELIZABETH BARBE has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Tenth day of March
next AND in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
be determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned or his agent free ot
charge.
DATED this Tenth day of December, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. O. PALMER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Templar Street, Forbes; his Agent, LIONEL
ALEXANDER, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Monday’s noon found that area of
Macquarie-street between the Sydney
Hospital and Hunter-street, packed tight
with humanity. The atmosphere was
Turkish bathish. Men cooled off by fan-
ning themselves with their hats; the
horses of the Mounted Police worked
their tails overtime. An occasional small
child in daddy’s arms carried a flag. The
Navy, artillery and the Air Force were
drawn up before Parliament House. All
was in readiness for the Proclamation of
the new King. Lieutenant-Governor
Philip Street read the momentous words,
there was firing of salutes. The band
played the national anthem ; the Premier
called for cheers for George VI. These
reverberated along Macquarie-street.
The Governor-General and his escort
clattered back to Government House.
The detachments marched up Mac-
quarie-street, swinging in a spirited
manner into King-street. A new King
reigned.
The Duntroon College flag flashed blue
and scarlet farewell to the Victoria Bar-
racks oval last week ; next year the col-
lege moves back to Canberra. Cadets
showed their paces in grand style at the
parade that led on to the graduation
ceremony. The marching drew a word of
admiration from all the pukka soldiers
looking on with eagle eye. The King’s
Colors, blue emblazoned with the crown,
were paraded, and this march, at the
same slow pace as the Trooping of the
Colors, was impressive and clean-cut.
The Governor-General, who was to have
been there, was in Canberra on King’s
business, so Brigadier Miles took the
salute.
It is nearly 100 years since the oval of
Victoria Barracks saw its first parade,
and in 1885 the Soudan Contingent had
its final parade, there before embarkation.
They were fresh and clean-cut beginning
soldiers who last week received the King’s
Medal (that’s something historic for Cor-
poral G. D. Clark and his descendants),
the Sword of Honor, the Lord Novar
Cup and the Lord Stradbroke Cup at the
hands of Mrs. Miles. The prizes were
given out in the gym., which is on a
higher level than the parade-ground. A
large Union flag (military circles shudder
at the title Union Jack, for in the army
the jack is only the arm on which the
flag is hoisted) draped the back of the
platform, a flag of Australia covered the
table at the front of the stage. There
were flags everywhere, and crossed lances
with red-and-white pennants.
The R.A.A. band played the “British
Grenadiers” and other tunes that touched
the patriotic nerve ; there was the silver
gleam of trophies and there was tea in
three monster marquees on the lawn.
The Navy walked about tropical in white.
Professors aired their academic robes. It
was quite a party. Mrs. Miles wore black
and white. The wife of Lieut.-Col. H. C.
Robertson (he’s director of military arts
at the college) was very smart. She wore
a long tunic of navy net over her
flowered frock. Her navy hat had nearly
all its brim in the front, and the crown
was high—a sort of 1936 version of the
early-Victorian bonnet. Mrs. Boyle, in
an attractive blue-silk suit, brought her
Major and her mother, Mrs. P. Condon,
up from Melbourne. Mrs. Pat Manly’s
frock held parma-violet shades ; her furs
were silver fox. Major-General Rosenthal
came with his lady, and Mrs. Lane-Poole,
whose coat was zebra-striped, brought
her Admiral. Mrs. Godsall, from Too-
woomba, was in the fun, so were the
Major Chapmans. Dinner at the Rose
Bay Golf Club and a dance at the college
rounded off the day nicely for the mili-
tary.
While Edward VIII. was taking off his
Crown, Gwen Stevens was busy pinning
on her wedding veil. Gwen duly became
Mrs. Philip Rudder in St. Philip’s on
Church Hill, while hundreds watched
sheltered more or less by umbrellas from
the persistent rain. Gwen is the elder
daughter of the Premier, so it was haste
to the wedding for place and power.
Lady Gowrie was among the guests, so
were the Lieutenant-Governor and his
wife. Bells pealed, and there were waves
of choral singing. Every pew had its
posy, tied with a big green bow. Gladioli,
roses and hydrangea were massed in the
QUEEN ELIZABETH, as Australia knew her.
(A Monte Luke study.)
chancel. Gwen’s a graceful girl, and
showed to advantage her long frock of
ivory romaine that was embroidered
with silver lily-of-the-valley. Her tulle
veil sprayed from a Grecian coronet of
seed pearls. Her four ’maids, sister
Lorna among them, and matron of honor
wore sea-green chiffons.
Archbishop Mowll, Padre Coplin
Thomas and Padre Robson made the
vows secure. The reception was at
the Rose Bay Golf Club, and here Mrs.
Stevens received, her frock a graceful
affair of grey chiffon and lace. The
icing of the wedding cake was tinged
with green and decorated with lily-of-the-
valley. ’Groom’s mother Mrs. Rudder
had rhinestones glinting on her amethyst
chiffons. Leaving the reception the new
Mrs. Rudder wore the frock of lobelia-
blue lace which she had worn when pre-
sented at Buckingham Palace garden
party.
The women hockey players who have
been touring America arrived back on
Saturday, names crowned with laurels,
heads with high hats. The flat crown is
anathema in the States and Canada. An-
other point noticed was that all their
necklines were high. Manager Mrs. F. J.
Davy walked ashore, her smile as radiant
as ever above burgundy sheer polka
dotted in white. Out of 19 matches they
won 16. Of the six international matches
they won three, U.S.A., England and
South Africa being their only successful
opponents. The Springboks put up the
most stubborn resistance. The girls tell
a tale of lavish hospitality, and unend-
ing kindnesses. Wife of tenor Richard
Crooks, who had become a great friend
of Mrs. F. J. Davy during her husband’s
Australian season, motored 150 miles
from New Jersey to New York, and took
the whole team under her wing for a
day. Among other sights she showed
them Radio City—an enormous building
of 62 floors. In its famous Rainbow Club
she entertained them at a dinner party,
then took them on to the Ziegfeld Fol-
lies. Their good-byes were said on
Broadway at midnight.
As the guests of the U.S.A. Hockey
Association they went to Washington,
had a swift glimpse of the magnificence
of the White House, and felt their hair
almost singe with the excitement, the
election being only two or three days
ahead. They made pilgrimage to the
home of Washington. At Vancouver a
long cable of welcome greeted them from
the Mayor, who was then in England.
They were given a dinner at the Georgian
Club, quite a swish affair, and Mrs. Davy
was given a special lunch by the Parks
and Playgrounds’ Association, a move-
ment in which she is deeply interested.
The hockey matches drew big gate
money, and everywhere there were
British Consuls to welcome the players
and to come and wave farewells.
On Saturday night the N.S.W.
Women’s Hockey Association staged a
welcome home for the victorious re-
turned tourists at the Girls’ Second-
ary Schools Club. This was fes-
tooned and garlanded with Christmas
bush and Christmas-bells till it looked
like a bushland glade. One by one the
girls unfolded their odyssey, mostly a
thing of laughter. President Dr. Marie
Hamilton’s black crepes were gay with
pink and blue flowers. Dr. Mary Booth,
Mrs. Harald Bowden and Mrs. Colling-
ridge were among the guests of honor.
The latest thing in American evening
dresses was worn by the travellers. Mrs.
F. J. Davy’s long black satin ski'rt was
topped by a tunic of pink lame. All the
frocks wore the puffed-elbow sleeve of
the moment, and were all throat-high in
front. Each guest brought a toy, and the
result was the fruitage of a fair-sized
Christmas-tree. The toys go to the
Rachel Forster Hospital and the Day
Nurseries.
Bougainvillaea and flame-trees made a
flamboyant background for Jane Austen
and Dickens in the gardens of Hopewood
House. Sketches by these two charac-
teristic English writers were performed
by the students at this end-of-the-year
entertainment for parents and friends.
The poetic “Maker of Dreams” was an-
other work performed by the girls, Helen
Basche making an impression with her
gesture and voice. The 200 guests were
received by Miss Jobson and after the
plays tea was served amid the rich
flowering of this Darling Point garden.
Time cannot wither nor custom stale
the infinite variety of the methods of
the Red Cross Headquarters’ Younger
Set. Proof is that in the year just ended
when money has been as tight as the
pearl oyster (ask any charity organiser
the amount of work behind the cheques
reaped from merrymakings) the girls
tucked a cheque for £550 into the Red
Cross Christmas stocking. When presi-
dent Mollie. Rolleston announced the
amount at the yearly dinner last week,
there was a dramatic pause in the knife-
and-fork department. The cheque is the
largest the Y.S. has ever handed over,
and is nearly twice the quota to which
they are pledged.
Lieutenant-Governor Street’s wife,
who is acting-president of the State’s Red
Cross, passed on the valuable bit of
paper to chairman Wilfred H. Johnson,
while 300 members and friends purred
with contentment and congratulation. Of
course there was a birthday-Christmas
cake, cut by Miss Fairfax. Importants
who came to applaud were Miss N.
Consett-Stephen, Miss Kate Egan, Mrs.
John Moore, the Owen lady, Ruby
Storey and Miss Rosa Piper.
Mrs. W. H. Brown, Norah Frost that
was, is resigning from the service of the
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb and
the Blind Children, after being social
organiser for nine years Her final effort
will be the White Heather Scottish Ball
at David Jones’s on New Year’s Eve.
Highland pipers and dancers and Scottish
novelties will be a feature of this ball,
1250 ticket's for which are being issued.
If you were grown-up you played
bridge, if of the true Christmas party
years you hob-nobbed with Santa Claus,
got a thrill out of the slippery dip and
concentrated on the ice creams at the
Otranto party on Saturday. The Day
Nurseries and the Far West Children
share the booty. The Orient Line had
lent the ship, which lay at Woolloo-
mooloo. Mayoress Parkes arrived very
smart in brown, the Mungo MacCallum
lady, who was president, wore a wide-
brimmed black hat, with her black and
white crepes. Mrs. Keith Morris, the
Julius lady and Mrs. J. L. Ruthven were
helpers, so were Mrs. M. F. Bruxner
and Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax and a long list
of others including the S. Drummonds.
McTiernan J. stopped measuring out
justice long enough last week to open a
fete at St. Martha’s Home. This Leich-
hardt institution has 129 children in its
care, and the bazaar was to provide
Christmas trimmings for them. Mary
O’Neill, of Neutral Bay, was the youth-
ful secretary. St. Martha’s is noted for
its beautiful embroideries. Lacemaking,
trousseaux and wedding veils are among
the delicate work that helps to finance
the home.


Public Notice.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as denned by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber 1936, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies, less any part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurance to
any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 30th January, 1937, subject
to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. Webb,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1548 of 1936.
BETWEEN VINCENT ANDREW REILLY
Petitioner
And MARY REILLY Respondent
And CHRISTOPHER WEBSTER Co-re-
spondent.
TO CHRISTOPHER WEBSTER formerly of
Coonabarabran in the State of New South
Wales Hotel Employee.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VINCENT
ANDREW REILLY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have committed adultery with
the respondent MARY REILLY AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to this suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the third
day of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had upon application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this First day of December, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) L. C. HOLMWOOD,
Clerk in Divorce.
P. E. ROGERS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Coonabarabran; by his Agents, CURTISS,
DEZARNAULDS & EDWARDS, Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1515 of 1936.
BETWEEN ROSE FLORENCE POLLOCK
Petitioner
And JAMES KEVIN POLLOCK Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES KEVIN POLLOCK of North
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Boilermaker.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ROSE
FLORENCE POLLOCK has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted the Petitioner and
without any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the second day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing anything of the
whereabouts or alternatively of the death of
MARTHA ELIZABETH BOYCE (nee LEA-
COCK), a daughter of Robert Leacock, late
of Charleville, Queensland, Carrier, deceased,
last heard of as being at Liverpool, New South
Wales, who is entitled to share in the estate
of Thomas Leacock, late of Tottenham,
Hawker, deceased, intestate, as one of his next-
of-kin, please communicate with the under-
signed?
B. R. RIORDAN,
Solicitor, Blayney, N.S.W.
TO WILLIAM COUCH.—WILLIAM COUCH,
a nephew of one William Couch, formerly of
Sandietown, near Timaru, New Zealand, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned
for the purpose of claiming a legacy bequeathed
to him in the will of Patrick Mechen, late of
Timaru, deceased.
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Patent.
TREATING LIQUIDS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
22983/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Public Notice.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with
Any Insurance Company not
Registered in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District, and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, has been applied, in respect of which
premiums are paid to an insurance company
not registered in the State, are hereby notified
that they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to such
insurance companies during the year 1936.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 30th January, 1937, subject
to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
Note: Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable in
respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the said
Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Stuart (irijstal
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold.
Sole representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. WAHLERS & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Designs by
I
V
BSSf.', \
1
s
if
M
r
in
ACHIEVEMENT!
From the sun-baked plains of the outback to the busy uproar of
metropolitan centres, the Rural Bank has steadily progressed to
provide constantly improving hanking facilities to farmers, home
builders, businessmen and the public generally.
Tangible evidence of this achievement is the completion and open-
ing of the new Head Office building of the Bank at the corners of
Martin Place, Elizabeth Street and Phillip Street —in the financial
heart of Sydney. Its foundations are firmly planted on 11,200 sq.
ft. of ground and its walls rise to a height of 185 feet.
This new building, in its dignity, efficiency and substantiality,
symbolises the Bank’s progress and solidarity, and its ramifications
of service in country and city throughout New South Wales.
« *J T It
O S'
N SJ W
W A TL E S
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKERIH AN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS


Short Story
Writing
tyree [Lance
I Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written?
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I. C.S. School oE Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
\touA.
n&ict khi\L..c^
Smarter, lighter, more con-
venient, a glossy, weather-
proof Globite is the ideal
travel case. Sold at local
stores.
A5E
TRAVE
WUute vax 3
fax w\jL&k cdi WL&cLb
Puppies for Sale.
COCKER Spaniel puppies and breeding stock,
both sexes, for sale. Imported prize-winning
parents. This Kennel has won 30 Challenge
Certificates in last two years. At Melbourne
Royal Show, 1936, dogs owned or bred in this
Kennel or sired by its stud dogs won 8 firsts,
4 seconds and 2 thirds in 11 classes. Three im-
ported dogs at stud.
THAXTED KENNELS, 369 Glenferrie Road,
Malvern, Vic. UY5701.
GIVE YOUR BOY A
MODEL
MONOPLANE
FOR XMAS!
m
wmm-""
Thousands of airminded boys have derived much enjoyment fr o m ( r o^ tr “
and flying the “Mirror” model monoplane. The kit, complete with a jJ P arts
diagrams, costs 45., and makes an admirable Christmas gift for a b y.
4s. in postal notes to: —
MONOPLANE SPECIAL XMAS OFFER,
“Woman’s Mirror,”
252 George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Melbourne
chatter
The largest gathering outside Scotland
of the Clan Cameron took place on the
Orama last week at the instigation of the
steamer’s captain, Evan Cameron, who
looks upon the Clan as the sun, moon
and stars of his life on land or sea. His
affection for each port of call in his long
maritime experience is gauged by the
number of clansmen among its inhabi-
tants.
After being welcomed in the music-
room by Captain Cameron and the presi-
dent and Mrs. Alex. Cameron, guests
found a buffet supper on deck with a
great array of “Scotch-eggs,” pasties,
oatmeal biscuits, savories and cakes, with
two bars adjacent' for the whetting of
throats in proper Scottish fashion. Cap-
tain Cameron had his great moment
walking in front of the haggis, and its
bodyguard of pipers and bottles of
whisky held aloft. The dish or dishes
(for there were several haggises) soon
disappeared on the plates of over 250
guests. The haggis was eaten with evi-
dent relish, though to eyes, noses and
palates not genuinely Scottish it appeared
unattractive in color (dirty-grey), smelt
pungently of onions and tasted like
strong seasoning.
After supper the Camerons and a few
special guests, representatives of Scot-
tish societies and the Clans Mackay and
Macdonald, were entertained with a film
by Dr. Laurence Stokes, songs by
Madame Scotia, the “Bardess of the
Gorsedd,” speeches and Scottish danc-
ing. Captain Cameron unveiled a poster
in which Norman Lindsay had produced
a vigorous clansman clutching a fiery
cross in one hand and a claymore in the
other.
A letter of greeting was read from the
Clan’s Chief, Lochiel, whose letter paper
is engraved with his far away address of
Achnacarry Spean Bridge, Inverness-
Shire. Among ambitions of members is
the establishment of the Clan Cameron
throughout the world. It is hoped to
apply a trust fund to the saving and
maintenance of Cameron country and
estates, to help deserving clansmen and
to promote the associations and senti-
ments of the Clan. Another ambition is
to have, a large annual gathering with
the chief and to build a modern hotel,
with Clan rooms, offices and museum,
at Lochaber. Eligible members of the
Clan are those who bear or assume the
name of Cameron, who have a parent
or grandparent a Cameron and those
who belong to Clan septs.
Melbourne would welcome a series
of lectures by Constance Duncan, sec.
of the Bureau of Social and Industrial
Affairs, who spoke last week under the
auspices of the League of Nations
Union on “Tension in the Far East.”
Miss Duncan is no globe-trotting tourist,
but a qualified observer of sane outlook
and more than usual intelligence. She
lived and worked 10 years in Japan at
the Y.W.C.A., speaks, reads and writes
Japanese and knows something of
Asiatic thought and culture.
As a result of observations on her
recent trip, and of long discussions with
authorities on political thought and
government in Japan and China Miss
Duncan gives an assurance that Japan
is not by instinct a militaristic nation,
that what she longs for is more culture
and a little more ease for her hard-
working people. The eye cast on Aus-
tralia is for trade only. Manchukuo has
been a liability not an asset. Japan’s
most malignant foe is Russia, whose
army in Siberia is larger than the whole
of the Japanese army, and the Russian
Air Force maintains one thousand fight-
ing ’planes in Vladivostock. Chinese
Reds, Miss Duncan observed, are also
a power to be reckoned with.
Chinese General Chiang Kai Shek
celebrated his fiftieth birthday while
Miss Duncan was in China. There were
great celebrations, with fireworks and a
present from his subjects of fifty fighting
’planes. That this General must be
something out of the ordinary is
emphasised by his fairly successful sup-
pression of gambling (and the Chinese
are the greatest gamblers in the world)
in the two Southern Provinces, environs
of Canton. Miss Duncan’s theory is that
a China growing more and more united
is a favorable development, for it will
preserve a better balance of power in
the Orient.
Lighter incidents touched on by the
lecturer were statements that more
gramophone records of Beethoven are
sold in Tokio than in any other capital
city, and that for a recent essay competi-
tion in a big boys’ school on “Who Is
Your Hero and Why?” 10 p.c. of the
candidates chose military figures and 40
p.c. Beethoven. Dealing with the com-
petition of Japan’s industries with those
of Lancashire Miss Duncan made a com-
parison in tastes between a Lancashire
lass and a Japanese cotton-mill girl. The
English lass demands two nights a week
at the movies, but all the Japanese mill-
hand asks for are occasional classes in
tea ceremony and flower arrangement
and to be allowed to carry home and
place beside her bed her bowl of chrysan-
themums.
In this Ronald Esler photograph is
Inez, elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
A. O. V. Tymms, formerly of Launces-
ton. Her just engaged fiance is Bill,
only son .of the T. F. B. Mitchells, of
Launceston. Miss .Tymms who has
almost completed her first year nursing
at Royal Melbourne Hospital is relin-
quishing that work to make a start on
her trousseau. The young couple hope
that their marriage will take place about
the middle of next year, so that they
can have an Alpine honeymoon. Bill is
an experienced and proficient ski-er.
Ray Whiting’s exhibition at the Aus-
tralia opened with glasses of sherry, but
it couldn’t have been just the sherry
which put everybody in a bright mood.
On the whole laughs were the general
reaction, and, as Gengoult Smith said
in his opening speech, laughs are better
than doctors and tonics for keeping
people healthy. Mrs. C. J. Officer
Brown was present in person and cari-
cature. The first time Ray Whiting
drew her he made her a motorist ignor-
ing a big policeman, but now she has
a golf handicap of five, so her back-
ground was naturally pin, flag and green.
Mrs. Georges Nichterlein, with her little
drummer-boy cap securely attached to
her Eton crop, found herself and a dog
a joke in pastel watercolors.
The largest picture of all, “Beach
Scene,” held as much concentrated en-
tertainment as a comic film plus a foot-
ball match, a Wodehouse novel and a
village full of gossip. “Cocktails” is
like what Shane Leslie described in
The Passing Chapter as “cynical men
and sinful women exchanging high-
powered repartee over snacks of
brightly-colored liquid.”
Among onlookers were Vera Whiting,
in a Scottish-thistle patterned frock;
Yvonne Atkinson, wearing a check
suit and a white Robin Hood hat, and
Mrs. Clif Ormiston, whose taffeta suit
was composed of a plain navy skirt and
a jumper striped with white.
Mrs. Frank Andrew was accompanied
by Joan Watt, who had rolled her hair
up dexterously so that soft little curls
came over the edge of her black cap.
Hero of two seasons of “Richard of
Bordeaux” Ken Tuckerfield received
many congratulations on the contract
he has just signed with J.C.W. His first
job will be a prominent part in “Wild
Violets.”
Here is a Broothorn portrait of Mrs.
Maurice Belz, who, in addition to her
other talents, must possess some of her
husband’s genius for mathematics. At
any rate, she was one of the sub-
treasurers working on the committee for
the Union House fete. In the medical
world Mrs. Belz is better known as Dr.
Marjorie Hughes.
Judging by the interest taken in Daryl
Lindsay’s exhibition of drawings of the
Russian Ballet it seems that art patrons
will buy if they can get “something dif-
ferent”—the number of red seals which
went up on the first afternoon in the
foyer of His Majesty’s was greater than
the total for many of this year’s shows.
Even more entertaining than the sketches
were the members of the Ballet, present
in person, who fluttered about like flocks
of excited little birds searching for the
artist’s impressions of themselves, their
friends or rivals. Leon Woizikowsky's
opening speech was a great success. He
read it much as a small boy reads his
primer, transposing the full stops, mak-
ing pauses for concentrated thought a.nd
crescendoes of exclamation on reaching
long words.
When Mrs. T. J. Ryan opened Jessie
Traill’s “Melbourne to the Gulf of Car-
pentaria” exhibition of pictures, spec-
tators were given the opportunity of see-
ing at close quarters an etching press and
the impedimenta that goes with it. A
new idea of the artist’s, executed by her
niece, Peggy Traill, whose home is at
Catherine Hill Bay (N.S.W.), was the
covering of water-color drawings with
cellophane so that an impression of glaz-
ing was given to unframed pictures.
Because of rain the second day’s inter-
state tennis at the Albert Ground had
to be postponed, but the weather cleared
on Friday and all matches were finished.
The Victorian women did well by de-
feating teams from N.S.W. and S.A.
There was particular interest in the
match between Joan Hartigan and
Nancye Wynne, champion of three
States: N.S>.W., Queensland and S.A.
(she has to play for the Victorian title
this week). Spectators deserted the men
players to watch the two girls. Although
the younger player had a victory, Miss
Hartigan received acclamation for her
plucky game and for the good spirit in
which she always takes her reverses. It
looks as if eye-shades have come to stay.
Exceptions from the prevailing comfort-
able fashion were Nancye Wynne, who
for several seasons has clung to her
green-lined schoolboy hats, N.S.W.
player Alison Hattersley, who is fond of
a topee, and her team-mate Vera Selwyn,
who usually plays in a wide-brimmed
linen hat.
The National Theatre’s first large con-
certed production in aid of its own
funds, was a Pageant of the Nativity at
the Princess Theatre, for which there
were crowded houses both afternoon
and evening. Particular credit is due to
Miss E. O’Keefe, who arranged the pro-
cedure of the story and grouped the
tableaux, and to Joan Henry, who
designed the costumes, keeping in mind
the effects of various lights on certain
blends of colors. In the big cast an
“angel” whose execution of duty did
not pass unnoticed was Freda Coffey,
who held the Star of Bethlehem aloft
for minutes at a time without any sign
of tired arms. Many in the audience
wondered how the producers managed
to find so many blondes to take part in
the pageant. The cherubs were genuine
golden heads, but the angels and other
feminine characters had their hair
thickly sprinkled with gilt powder.
An interesting visitor to Melbourne was
Mrs. P. Levett, who, though Australian-
born, has seen little of this country for
several years. Since her husband’s death
she has spent most of her time in Paris,
where she has friends of all nationalities
and speaks more French than she does
English. Companion on her holiday is
son Geoffrey, aged 17, a graduate of
Rugby who is still too young to go to
Cambridge. He is at present enjoying
his first experience of Australian sheep
stations. Mrs. Levett travels a great deal
in Europe, and has done unusual things,
such as accompanying a party of
Rumanian friends to Geneva during a
League of Nations meeting, and cruising
in a tiny steamer along the coast of
Yugoslavia and Dalmatia to Dubrovnik,
a quaint old town with a cobbled main
street no wider than a footpath, in
which one may not drive a car without
a permit. Mrs. Levett left recently for
Sydney, where she will stay two months.
Before sailing again for overseas she has
planned a short break of journey in Mel-
bourne for final good-byes.


FOB FAULTLESS
tCNITION:
MurHeadquarters
'for the Coronation
For golf, for horse riding on the famous
Sussex Downs, for tennis, cricket and
other sports in season, for good and safe
bathing, for leave or retirement, for the
education of your children —Eastbou rne,
the town of a thousand attractions and
with a climate more equable than that of
the Riviera. Next season, London will
be so crowded, and there’s
no place like Eastbourne .
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Enjoy your +rip
Mothersills
SEASICK “ REMEOY
Jtakes'Qeck Activities"
And Tea a Welcome
If any illustration; in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: It didn’t take long for the
North to see that Dr. Fenton was pro-
vided with a new aeroplane. A better
and more suitable job than his old one,
it is to cost £lOOO. Thus a Government
which should provide health facilities on
an island like Bathurst—where there is
a large mission-compound native popu-
lation —and which never hesitates to
spend thousands on rescuing stunters
who get into difficulties, has left it to
private enterprise to provide wings for
the doctor who was answering a medical
call to Bathurst Island when his old
’plane crashed.
* * # *
“Kali”: When I was in Darwin years
ago abos. employed in the town had to
be paid at least 4s. a week and supplied
with food and “bacca,” and the employer
was responsible for seeing that the boy
was trousered. This later edict cost me
many pairs of bags. Tiger, our station
boy, had his vices, chief being gamb-
ling. After he had lost his money and
tobacco ration he’d stake his trousers,
usually with disastrous results, and
whenever he was missing from his job
he could usually be found sheltering in
his hut, nether parts , bare, awaiting the
arrival of another lot of coverings.
During the two years Tiger worked for
me he must have lost enough pants to
cover the whole Larrakeah tribe.
* * * *
“Vante”: Here in the North we, have
the longest packhorse, buckboard and
motor mail runs in the world. The
packhorse service is between Laura
(N.Q.) and the Batavia River gold-
field, near the tip of Cape York Penin-
sula. Once a month the mailman covers
nearly 400 miles. The buckboard
operates between Burketown (N.Q.)
and Wollogorang, nearly 220 miles. The
motor service is between Alice Springs
and Birdum (N.T.). Ten times a year the
mailman does the round trip, covering
nearly 1800 miles! A camel service
connects Rumbalara, a siding on the
Adelaide-Alice Springs railway, and the.
HermannSburg Abo. Mission. Stamps
illustrating these modes of transport
should be popular.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: The Cook Highway from
Cairns to Port Douglas (N.Q.), is nearly
completed, and will cost something like
£120,000. When the project was first
mooted the estimate was £15,000.
*
“Emma”: Passed out in Blackall
(C.Q.), George Salter, a sturdy Devon-
shire man, who first rode through the
district with sheep in 1884. Afterwards
he gave up sheep-droving for train-
droving—taking the first train over the
Townsville-Ayr line. A quarter of a cen-
tury back he was shifted to Charters
Towers, where he was a familiar figure
for a couple of decades until he retired
five years ago on reaching the age limit.
Hs * * *
“East Point”: Mr. Paterson, Minister
for the Interior, told a questioner in
Parliament he wasn’t aware local opinion
that unless Asiatic relations with native
women at Bathurst Island and elsewhere
were stopped, the black race would be
polluted and spoilt. And the Gov-
ernment is “unable to check the traffic
in lubras,” although the patrol boat
bought for about its weight in gold in
England has paid visits to the neighbor-
hood and arrested a lugger crew. Arrest-
ing doesn’t do much good. If it were
made the rule that no Asian lugger-
man should land on Australian soil un-
less he could pass a test in Gaelic, and
that any Asiatic caught interfering with
native women should receive the cat, a
different aspect would soon be placed
on matters. Let a white man of the
mainland be found bartering for native
women and see what happens to him!
* * * *
“Anopheles”: The happy-go-lucky
nature of civic organisation in Australia
is advertised by the mosquito plague
which has infested Brisbane after the
latest bout of hot weather. For quarter
of a century Brisbane’s authorities have,
been talking about “getting rid of the
mosquito.” But, given suitable weather
conditions, swarms continue to arrive.
In Panama they got rid of the pests, and
Rabaul, which is beside a large harbor
with apparent mosquito shelter all
round, has little trouble. The most that
can be promised by Brisbane Health
authorities is that “it is impossible to
“ Madam , you've left undone those things which you ought to have done!"
cope with such swarms, but it is hoped
to make experiments over the holidays.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: If “C. 8.” (B. 11/11/’36)
thinks it over he’ll probably recall that
when a novelist spreads an aura of im-
perturbability on the Oriental visage the
unemotional one is generally so de-
picted among a gathering of Europeans.
Then the Chinaman does retreat behind
his mask of inscrutability. To back my
argument I go to “C.B.’s” area. In
Sachs-street, Cairns (Q.), I found a foetid,
smoke - laden galvanised - iron room
wherein sweating whites obscenely de-
claimed their luck, whilst the only China-
man in the room, armed with a bamboo
croupier, nonchalantly raked in or dis-
bursed the bean counters, apparently en-
tirely detached from the mass of human-
ity around him. Alas! old Sachs-street
is becoming respectable at a great rate.
Some years ago Marseilles at its lurid-
est had nothing on this thoroughfare. I
had to go back to Cairo to recall a
market where the oldest profession
offered its wares displayed in so many
nationalities. Kipling missed it when he
wrote of Grant-road.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Warwick held its first Movie Ball, and
some most extraordinary rencontres took
place—Henry VIII. and Charlie Chan
seemed very friendly, and Mary Stuart
and Bosambo danced together. Prize
for the best set went to the Rose Marie
bunch, consisting of 40 of Warwick’s
prettiest girls.
Dr. and Mrs. Mervyn Patterson were
guests at an unusual party. They were
unlucky enough to have a fire, and lost
everything, so their friends gave a linen
tea for them. Few brides have collected
more lovely trifles than were thrust on
Mrs. Patterson.
Nancy Rennick, who is to wed a naval
lieut. in India, is sailing by the Orama.
There have been a multitude of farewell
teas; Nancy has been one of the
brightest spirits of Brisbane Repertory.
Since Paddington Playground has been
improved children attending have so
increased that 401 b. of Christmas cake
had to be provided for the breaking-
up party. Eighteen candles flickered
in token of the age of the playground.
Miss M. J. Bedford, who saw the play-
grounds started in Brisbane and who
has worked hard for them ever since,
wouldn’t dream of taking a holiday,
although it is long overdue, until she
could nail down various women to carry
on in her absence. The Paddington Play-
ground Christmas party always is un-
usual. Instead of being for the children,
the children give it for their parents and
members of the committee, and spend
much time on fashioning the gifts that
dangle from the decorated tree.
The annual party of the Dickens Fel-
lowship was, as usual, a huge success.
Mrs. J. G. Warren went as Pickwick.
The Philp lady was Mrs. Garland, and
there was quite a bunch of Edith Dom-
beys. A quadrille, danced by eight of the
members in character, was a highlight
of the evening.
Mrs. Lawson gave a party at Rowe’s
in honor of her sister, Martha Buggy,
who is to be a bride before December
is out. The hostess wore wine with black
accessories, and the guest a pretty white
frock beaded in blue and red.
In spite of the cricket, tea-parties have
raged daily. Jean Salisbury and May
Williams, who were the bridesmaids,
gave a pre-wedding tea for Edna Stewart,
who married Stewart' Johnson on Dec. 12.
Mrs. J. Brownlie Henderson, who is
leaving Brisbane to live at Dulacca
(W.Q.), was guest of honor at a fare-
well tea at Inns of Court, given by the
leaders and central executive of the
Junior Red Cross. Mrs. Henderson was
leader of the Yeronga Junior Red Cross
for over 10 years.
The R. M. Bells came down fronV
Eskdale for the cricket, and after the
first day’s play gave a big dinner party
at the Belle Vue.
After the second day’s play there was
a Kentucky dance at Lennon’s, with the
English cricketers as guests and the
Roger Hartigans as official host and
hostess. Daughter Patricia helped to
look after the dancers.
Mrs. F. L. Trout bade 60 guests to a
pre-wedding party in honor of Rita
Trout, who marries Jack Lane before the
year is out. Wedding gifts and the very
delightful trousseau were on view.
Our Excellencies will spend Christmas
at Southport, and have taken Hunting-
don for a month. This will be almost the
last public appearance of Capt. R. C. de
M. Leathes, A.D.C., who is to return
to England early in the new year.
Mrs. Bill Howard Smith gave a de-
lightful pre-wedding tea for Jess Hill,
whose matron of honor she will be when
Jess marries Rex Lobb on December 17.
Mrs. Graeme Gibson, of London,
Ontario, who was Mary Cameron, of
Brisbane, is back again after an absence
of six years, with a bonny son to show
her old school friends. While on a trip
to Canada she met and married Capt.
Graeme Gibson, a “regular,” who has
just been a year on exchange in England.
She is spending a week or two with
her brothers, after putting in a couple of
weeks in Sydney with her
sister, who also has mar-
ried a soldier, Captain
Maxwell.
Members of the Lyceum
Club held a cheery Christ-
mas party in their rooms.
Mrs. E. A. D. Amos,
the president, assisted by
the secretary, Mrs. Aubrey
Thomson, and the hoa
treasurer, Amy Adamson,
received the guests, who
sang carols right lustily
and gathered in gifts from
the tree.
Mrs. R. J. Jones, who for the past
two years has been, with her husband,
in charge of the Half-caste Bungalow at
Alice, Springs, passed through Brisbane
this week. Her husband has been
placed in charge of a lepresarium
island, about seven miles from Darwin,
where she will join him. Small daugh-
ter Barbara will be left in Brisbane at
the Wilson Ophthalmic Hostel. It will be
two years before • she can rejoin her
mother. Mrs. Jones was a war nurse,
and saw service in Salonica, Greece and
Egypt.
Hazel Smith and Victor Parker, two
members of the Little Cinema group,
who are to be married shortly, are to
have an unusual wedding gift—a
“movie” of the wedding ceremony, to
be taken by Moya Connolly, who is the.
leading spirit in the society.
The H. C. Morrows and Joyce
Morrow, who have been abroad for
almost a year, returned to Brisbane by
the Otranto.


HELPFUL TMfICE
nn:»
I -
v;
A
t9l_
TRAVELLERS
If you contemplate a visit either abroad
or within Australia, the Bank of New
South Wales Travel Department can
smooth the way for you.
This Department of the Bank arranges
world and local tours, makes bookings
and reservations for tra\sel by sea, land
and air, secures accommodation, advises
on Income Tax clearances and pass-
ports, and arranges baggage insurance.
The Traveller thus starts out with
every detail of the tour arranged in
advance and is supplied with a com-
plete schedule of movements and
accommodation. No charge is made
for the services rendered by this
Department.
3irJj9^
” fSTAIIISHID I 8 I 7
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington (N.£.),
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Suva, and London.
Enquiries may be made at any
other of the Bank’s 770 branches.
tIIA.I»J6
wsm
tV\e
*o°
•\
rro s
de
Rssy?r*»
tV' e ’“ats,r; e ed\^
Aep° s -a b' e
»o
ne sS
2WI
>***
teMtogitf - **• <"« Co, 1 ?
5:W: ; :W-S
L
does this to you
Remove it daily as only Pepsodent—the Special
Film-Removing Tooth Paste—does
How to remove film
TN removing film the Pepsodent
laboratories have made a great
discovery. A new cleansing and
polishing material has been devel-
oped. As a film-removing agent
it stands unsurpassed. Yet in spite
of its high cleansing powers, this
new material is far softer than the
one most commonly used in denti-
frices. Being softer, it cannot
harm precious tooth enamel.
And so, in judging a dentifrice
ask yourself: Does it remove film?
Is it safe? These are your dentist’s
standards. Judged by them, Pep-
sodent stands unique. No other
can give you Pepsodent results.
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent in the new
10% larger tubes at the old
prices. You can’t afford to
take chances on cheap “bargain”
brands now that it costs no
more to insist on the special
film-removing Tooth Paste.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL n.ckt
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Ethel Gordon walked down an aisle
decked with gladioli and pink-and-blue
arum-lilies when she kept her matri-
monial date with Cyril Peet at Trinity
Church. Her wave of foam-white
chiffon, crested with a monk collar, bil-
lowed into voluminous sleeves, curled
into a shirred panel back and front and
rippled off in a frothy train. Overhead
rose the spray of a tulle veil, edged with
Brussels lace. In her wake came Mar-
garet Thomas, Olive Craig and Pearl
McGovern.
T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cath-
edral” was presented at St. George’s
College. Action took place in the quad-
rangle at the foot of the steps leading
to the chapel, which rose majestically in
the background, providing an appropriate
and beautiful setting. The creepers en-
circling the balcony bays of the college
buildings lent to the other three sides of
the square an effect of tiers of boxes.
In deference to the request of the
Herald (Alec King), who spoke the pro-
logue, there was no applause and
scarcely a whisper from the audience
between acts. Canon C. B. Law was
a’Beckett, with a supporting cast of
three priests, four tempters, four mur-
derers and a chorus of the Women of
Canterbury.
Christmas festivities at the Parker-
ville Children’s Home were made pos-
sible by a bridge party in the Kanimbla.
Mrs. C. Heppingstone presided over the
committee, and Mrs. A. Gregory, Mrs.
McLean and Mrs. Fox collected the
prizes.
Marjorie Luyer and Toby Fergusson-
Stewart slipped quietly into matrimony
at Christ Church, Claremont. Both
bride and ’maid, Margaret Giles, chose
a combination of green and white.
To say good-bye to their retiring
president, Cedric Messner, Fremantle
Rotarians and their wives foregathered
at the Orient Hotel, where incoming
president, the Rev. A. E. Brice, was at
the portals with Mrs. Brice’s navy matt
crepes at elbow. Mabel McKee and
Dorothy Roach made music, and Mrs.
Messner nestled a presentation chro-
mium clock against her black floral
georgettes.
To welcome Miss C. V. B. Mac-
Donald, “of the Isles,” University
women congregated for a luncheon at
the Karrakatta Club, where president
Margaret Battye did the honors in a
linen suit with navy blouse and acces-
sories. The guest, who came from Lon-
don via South Africa, is closely associ-
ated with the activities of Lady Frances
Ryder, whose hospitality is well known
to many Australians.
A close-fitting cap of lilies-of-the-
valley held Kathleen James’s tulle veil
in place when she exchanged vows with
Geoffrey Barnett at St. Mary’s, West
Perth. Crystal and pearl beads were
sewn into an orange-blossom design at
the neck of her milk-white satins and
outlined the high Empire waistline.
Sister Dorothy attended.
The recently reorganised Voluntary
Aid Detachment struck a seasonably
warm patch of weather for its first
week-end in camp. A horde of trim-
looking nurses fixed up accommodation
and equipment at Karrakatta, arranged
gas drills and lectures, attended church
parade and threw the camp open to the
public after inspection by the State
Commandant, Brigadier-General Mc-
Farlane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Counting on a hot night the com-
mittee of the University cabaret dance
had a dance floor laid on the grass in
the cloisters and tables arranged out-
side for supper, and hung up thousands
of colored lights and gay balloons. But
the thermometer dropped to 64, and
there were more dancers in the Refectory
than outside. The hall was decorated
with small Christmas-trees in red pots
with the leaves frosted in silver. Among
the guests were Vice-Chancellor William
Mitchell, Registrar Eardley and his wife,
Dr. and Mrs. A. Grenfell Price, Stanton
Hicks and his lady, Dr. C. B. Sangster,
Dr. and Mrs. S. W. Pennycuick, Dr. and
Mrs. Rex Matters, Prof. A. L. Campbell
and Dr. Helen Mayo. Frocking was
smart.
An avalanche of sporting women has
descended on Adelaide in recent weeks,
among the latest units of it a team from
the W.A. Womens’ Cricket Association,
which was given the usual civic recep-
tion.
The Women Teachers’ League met in
the Price Hall to hand a travelling case
to its retiring president, Phebe Watson,
who has been an officer during the whole
20 years of the league’s existence.
Descendants of Mrs. William Fergu-
son, of Myrtle Bank, and of Mrs.
Andrew Tennant, of Glenelg, who were
grandmother and mother respectively of
Mrs. W. T. Mortlock (North Adelaide),
Mrs. Richard Hawker (Bungaree), Mrs.
Anstruther-Gray (Scotland), John Ten-
nant (Princess Royal) and F. A. Ten-
nant (Glenelg) have given the C.W.A. the
cost of a seaside holiday cottage to be
erected on land at Grange given by Mrs.
E. C. Gwynne.
The picnic race meeting at Gawler
was well attended. Chairman F. L.
Barnett’s wife was hostess at afternoon-
tea, smartly gowned in a blue linen frock
patterned in white and black. Premier
Butler’s wife and daughter Jean were
among the official guests.
TASMANIA.
Hobart being a cathedral city, it was
fitting that all roads should lead to
Murray-street when the new tower was
blessed with ancient ritual and ceremony.
Church dignitaries from many parts of
the Commonwealth were present, among
them the Archbishop of Sydney, who,
with Mrs. Mowll, was guest of his Ex.
and Lady Clark at Government House.
Others included the Bishop of Newcastle
and Mrs. de Witt Batty, who stayed with
the Lewis lady at Weondee, the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne (Dr. Head), Bishop
Cranswick (Gippsland), Bishop Halse
(Riverina), Bishop of St. Arnaud (Rev.
Dr. James), Bishop Baker (Bendigo),
who renewed many old friendships in
Hobart, and Bishop Burgmann (Goul-
burn). Then there were scores of clerics
and their appendages who had come to
town for Synod and stayed over the
week-end for the ceremony. Besides the
crowd which filled the cathedral, people
thronged the streets and neighboring
windows and roofs to watch the. proces-
sion and the hand-in-hand encirclement
of the building, known from ancient
times as “clipping the church.” The new
peal of bells sounded out over the city
with splendid effect.
On the previous evening Synod ended
with a conversazione in the City Hall.
All the visiting clergy and crowds of
church people rolled up, and the Dean
was presented with a silver tea and coffee
service in recognition of his efforts in
connection with the new tower.
The Dean and Miss Rivers entertained
visiting clergy and a host of friends at
luncheon, after which the guests went
to Government House* where his Ex. and
Lady Clark had arranged what should
have been a garden party in honor of
the visiting church dignitaries, but which
rain turned into an indoor affair. Lady
Clark wore dark-blue georgette and lace
and a hat in two shades of blue.
Dr. and Mrs. Keverall Mclntyre
served sherry and savories to members
of the B.M.A. (Northern Division), their
wives, friends and fiancees, among them
Peggy Gurney, who is to marry Dr. B.
Hiller shortly. Among visiting medicoes
present were Dr. L. V. Hurley (Melb.),
Dr. and Mrs. Edison (Scottsdale), Drs.
present were Dr. L. V. Hurley (Melb.),
Ferris (Ulverstone), Dr. and Mrs. Tis-
dall (Beaconsfield) and the Frank Fays
(Hobart).
Mountford, the lovely old home of
the Mackinnons at Longford, was gay
on an evening when Winsome Warren
engineered a surprise party for the two
girls, Elvina and Jeannette, and shep-
herded a big party of young things from
Launceston and the surrounding district.
The John Hudspeths gave a small
dinner party before driving out to Long-
ford with their guests. Winsome’s grey
frock had a silver thread in it; Elvina
Mackinnon was in white crepe, and Jean-
nette in black ring velvet.
The clerk of the weather turned his
thumbs down for Mrs. Ronald Dick’s
garden party, and the fine marquee stood
empty under dripping skies in the
drenched gardens. About 80 guests
were, accommodated in the drawing-,
dining- and morning-rooms, where big
wood fires blazed and lovely flowers
made masses of color. Mrs. B. Shep-
pard’s charming piano selections mingled
with the babel of feminine tongues.
The Southern Tas. Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation went gay at the Continental with
dancing in the ballroom and bridge in
the Oriental room. Mrs. D. D. Willis
and Noel Wilcox were joint hon. secs.
Lady Clark, in black, was there, and the
official party included president R. N.
Nettlefold and his wife, the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, Dr. Duncombe,
Mrs. E. C. Reid, Mrs. D. C. McLaren
and R. Crick. Frocking was graceful,
and the popular flower-in-the-hair found
many wearers.


mm
LEARN .
■fromthe Squirrel /
When nuts are plentiful (and nuts
are the riches of the squirrel
world), the wise animal eats what
he needs. But, little by little, he
builds up a store of food against
the lean future.
This plan has stood the test of
many thousands of years. So,
why not act in like manner ?
From your earnings, put aside
something however small
but REGULARLY. Put that
regular something where it will be
safe but always quickly available.
Let the growing fund earn a
steady profit for you in interest.
Start a Savings Account, at once,
and you’ll feel happier and
safer.
ĸ
commonuTH
SAUIIIGS BAIIH OF AUSTRALIA
V-.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
For Christmas Cruises
W hen holidaying on a cruise, or when travelling Inter-
state by Rail, Road, or Air, the safest and most con-
venient way to carry funds is by Travellers’ Cheques
issued by the National Bank. They are issued in de-
nominations of £2, £5, and £lO sterling, and are
readily changed into local currency in almost all the
places a holiday-maker or tourist may visit. When
larger amounts are required, the National Bank s
Letter of Credit is recommended. Full information
from any Branch of the Bank.
-I. NATIONAL BANK
oj JhniiecL
430 Offices and Branches in Australia
30/12/33
ASSETS EXCEED FORTY SEVEN MILLIONS . .
The Long White Cloud
Scaerificing Air Progress
“M.L.” : Maoriland and Australia have
been kept moderately well-informed of
moves to establish a Tasman air service,
and indications are that the extension
will be operating in a year. The link
will entail further expense for bath Gov-
ernments, but since it is to chop the
Tasman crossing down to 12 hours the
bill will be worth footing.
But the possibility of Maoriland and
Australia being brought within three and
four days of San Francisco at no addi-
tional cost to either Government now
seems remote. By inducing Maoriland to
impose conditions to its proposed 10-year
agreement with Pan-American Airways
(guaranteeing against discriminatory
action in favor of possible competitors)
the British Government’s air advisers
appear to have blocked the extension to
Auckland of the successful America-
Manila service.
Mr. Savage has been strangely silent
on the subject. Maorilanders know only
that the conditional agreement by virtue
of which the American company was to
have a bi-monthly service operating
before the end of this year looks like
lapsing.
Judging from the haggling over the
England-Australia service, it would take
more than 10 years to establish any trans-
pacific service between Canada and
Maoriland. And Maoriland’s agreement
with Pan-American Airways is under-
stood to have demahded the use of
American bases for any British service
in the Pacific.
“Kohi”: To meet the shortage of farm
labor (B. 9 /12/’36) and to get the un-
employed into jobs, Labor Minister
Armstrong plans to establish a Govern-
ment harvesters’ camp at Morrinsville.
Agricultural Minister Martin says the
Waikato needs farm labor more than
any other M.L. district, so there should
be work for the 60 or 70 men expected
at the camp. Motor transport, provided
by the Government, will carry the men
to farms in adjoining districts; their
tents and cookhouse are also being sup-
plied by the State. Minister Armstrong
hopes that some of the men will take
permanent work on the farms they visit
—if they don’t snap up any employment
offering, Minister Semple will surely
have a chance to prove his words about
“dealing with slackers.”
* * * *
“Mak”: Air services in mountainous
Maoriland are well supported. November
passenger and mail figures were a Union
Airways record for the inter-island run.
The daily average of air-mail letters
posted in Christchurch alone is nearly
600, and since the service began in April
more than 103,000 letters have left the
Canterbury capital by air.
On the Westland side of
the Alps, the Mercer-
Hewett Air Travel service
south from Hokitika
established freight, as well
as mail and passenger,
records in November.
Maoriland distances are
comparatively short, but
aviation still saves con-
siderable time ; tortuous
roads in both islands rule
out consistently high
motor speeds.
“ I shall be home fairly early, George, so see you have my breakfast
ready!”
“Fergus”: The Presbyterian Church in
Maoriland has found something good in
Communism —the cleverness of its propa-
ganda. Dr. J. D. Salmond, Knox Col-
lege, professor of religious education, de-
clares Communist methods are “fiend-
ishly clever.” So Presbyterians are enter-
ing the same ring; they intend to banish
“stodginess” from church publications
and issue general church news in a style
more attractive to the secular press. By
the same decision General Assembly
created a newspaper novelty; it added a
substantial house allowance to its offer of
£SOO a year for an editor-propagandist.
# * * *
“M.”: The droving days are not dead
up Gisborne way. Soon thousands of
breeding ewes will take the road for
annual migration to runs in other parts
of Maoriland. Mob after mob cross the
rough Motu country and converge on
the railhead at Taneatua; from there
they are trucked through Opotiki and
Whakatane to all parts of the Waikato
and Auckland. Any deterioration in the
quality of Poverty Bay wool would soon
be transmitted to the whole industry, but
Maoriland sheepmen have the protec-
tion of Massey Agricultural College re-
search officers. For two years they have
been testing fleeces from north of Gis-
borne down to The Bluff, and hairiness
in wool is one of the dangers receiving
close attention.
* * * *
“Korero”: Another aspect of the de-
cline in Maori health (B. 23/9/’36) has
been advanced by the Auckland Hos-
pital Board, which is concerned at the
incidence of typhoid in native communi-
ties. Of a Maori population of 73,000,
103 had typhoid during the year to
March 31 ; only 84 of the 1,500,000
white people were infected. If the figures
were in proportion, there would have
been only four Maori cases. According
to Dr. J. P. Hastings, Europeans are
largely responsible for the high native
rate —they have spoiled sources of
Maori fish foods by sewage outfalls
along the coast.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: The approaching centenary
is making Maoriland as conscious of the
gaps in it's story of settlement as of the
historical links it has preserved (B.
2/12/’36). For instance, the Presbyterian
Church does not know the actual date
of its first Maoriland service. To the dis-
may of the General Assembly, papers
of historical importance cannot be found,
and ministers have been asked to re-
cover from old homes as many records
as possible. Other churches and organi-
sations are facing similar problems—
when people are making history they are
nearly always too busy to appreciate the
future significance of their work.
* * * *
“D.N.”:. Pegasus Bay, north of Banks
Peninsula on the east coast of Maori-
land’s South Island, will be filled up in
999 years six months. Science says so.
For five years engineers have kept daily
records, checking the weight of sub-
stance being carried seaward by the
waters of the Waimakariri River ; in one
year this river empties 2,200,000 tons of
sand and silt from the Southern Alps
and the Canterbury Plains into Pegasus
Bay. Engineers responsible for the pre-
diction declare that the Alps will be so
worn down in 900 years that Canterbury
will be able to change the course of the
Waimakariri until it flows through West-
land to the sea. That will solve a lot
of river-control responsibilities —for Can-
terbury !


3G1..3
2
yap*** >.a
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve 44 8A8Y GRAND" All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send jar Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Rola Reproducers,
Van Kuyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
December Issue Now on Sale.
TUNG OIL AGAIN
THE SHAREMARKET
JAPAN’S MONETARY POLICY
MONTH’S PROSPECTUSES AND BALANCE
SHEETS REVIEWED.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
I M PEX
m
OXYGENATED
BATTERIES
Made by the largest
Independent Dry Bat-
tery Co. in the Com-
monwealth,
IMPEX
OXYGENATED
BATTERIES
have been specially
designed for Australian
conditions.
Buy IMPEX and you
buy satisfaction.
Impex, Ltd., Abbotsford, Vic..,
and 181 Clarence Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
Last week the Test match —and what
an unconscionable amount of twaddle
does get into the air in the name of
Cricket! Not the descriptions of play;
this listener will cheerfully hear those
by the hour, and they are not badly
done. If they have a fault it is that by
now some announcers have been at it
long enough to have dropped into a for-
mula. A little ingenuity, and every over
could be something fresh, with—as, in
fact, it has —a character of its own. An-
other thing—cricket describers talk too
much. They will gabble, and, gabbling,
are. often left floundering when the in-
cident that counts happens. But, since
they are describing action, which forces
its own life on even the most stereo-
typed, they provide tiptop entertain-
ment. In fact, there, are few things better
on the air than these cricket descrip-
tions. Vic Richardson makes as good
hearing as any.
The “commentators” who rehash the
day’s play in the evenings are another
kind of beastie. On the try-anything-
once principle, this listener went through
the ordeal of the complete talks of
more than half a dozen of them one
evening. They were nearly all well-
known cricket names, and what dull
business they nearly all made of it!
Some performances would seem to indi-
cate that a cricket career must be one of
the soundest of all trainings for the pul-
pit. With one or two exceptions, they
treated the game as anything but a game.
The solemnity was unbelievable. Cer-
tainly nobody on Mars, or any other un-
happy place where they don’t have
cricket, could possibly gather that such
ponderous stuff had anything to do with
a game.
What they seem to overlook is that
such “commentating,” being in the
nature of post-mortem and of no prac-
tical value whatever, can have merit only
if it is entertainment. The truth prob-
ably is that most of these chaps, though
inestimable cricketers of their day, simply
have no gift as entertainers. A striking
exception is A. E. R. Gilligan, heard
speaking from Brisbane on the night all
this was suffered. Gilligan is an admir-
able entertainer. Apart from his sub-
ject matter altogether, it is a pleasure, to
listen to him. As he represented it, the
play of the day was not only play in a
game, but in a game jolly well worth
playing. He obviously enjoys cricket as
much as a spectator as ever he did on
the field. It is a friendly matter with
him, a good bit of fun—anything but a
text for a sermon full of direful doubts
and prophetic forebodings. He has
humor, an uncommonly likeable manner,
an excellent broadcasting voice. He is
a polished speaker—and he takes his
time.
Failure in that last is a trouble with
most of the others. They are not all
fast speakers, but they speak without
pause, filling in what should be effective
pauses with such cliches of the air as
“generally speaking,” “as a matter of
fact,” “consequently” (eleven syllables),
“must not be forgotten” and “indeed.”
These things give a listener an uncom-
fortable feeling that he is being button-
holed again by the very club bore he
has only gone home to avoid.
Not only among cricket “commen-
tators” is gabbling rife. Tearing along at
a hand-gallop is rather common in our
broadcasting, with chaps who read news
and weather from national stations fairly
easy winners. They’d leave the Modern
Major-General of Ivan Menzies stag-
gered by their pace. This listener found
an extraordinary contrast to them and
their stereotyped news reading in an
astonishing quarter—a chap conducting
a “children's newspaper” from 2GB. In-
stead of galloped fragments of mostly
minor news items, he dealt on this par-
ticular evening with three things that
were, just then, news at its biggest—the
affair of the King, the ill-health of the
Pope and the French Ministerial pro-
nouncement that France would back
Britain to the last frog. These things he
did not merely gabble, but interpreted
sympathetically and in-
telligently. He was not dogmatic ; he
simply explained. One day all broad-
cast news will be put over like this.
The time having elapsed since this
listener swore, after an extremely painful
experience, that he would listen not
again for 12 months to another national
“ Isn't it wonderful , Ma? Now We'll be able to 'ear Mister Lyons an
all them other famous men!”
station broadcast of Shakspeare, the
knob was doubtfully turned for a Sun-
day afternoon offering of “Macbeth,”
from 2BL. Most astonishingly good! In
the piece which occasioned the pledge-
taking there had been as fearful a form
of cutting as had ever been wished upon
the Bard, including Bowdler’s. In fact,
worse than that eminent wowser’s, for
the cutting principle had seemed to be
to just hack out every line that con-
tained a word likely to offend the most
susceptible old lady in the land, the
listener left to make such sense as he
might of the tensely elocuted remains.
In the “Macbeth” there had been cut-
ting to remove offensive passages, too,
and other passages, with one or two
whole scenes, had gone as well, but no-
thing at all vital to the drama had been
removed, and the play came over tightly
and most effectively. Of the players
Lady Macbeth was exceptionally good,
and there was nothing much wrong with
Macbeth or Macduff, either.
As an evidently regular item, about 10
minutes of poetry from 2FC, just long
enough, and otherwise good. On the
evening this listener heard it a man and
woman were alternately giving a com-
plete poem each from the American
Archibald McLeish. The. man was ex-
cellent. Without ever getting near fall-
ing into reciting he spoke the verses ex-
ceptionally clearly and with feeling for
what the poet was trying to say. The
lady suffered the severe handicap that the
poet happens to be a man, and a mascu-
line one, whose words are sadly done by
when turned into melting feminine notes.
Still, her words were perfectly clear. If
the pair are regularly giving the lesser-
known poets they are worth listening
to for that reason alone, apart from their
general entertainment worth to those
who like poetry enough to want to hear
it spoken as fine language and not as
barnstormer ranting.
Caught for a late sitting by 2GB. Sub-
ject, news of the upset in England. Baits
dangled at judicious intervals —sugges-
tions that when the House of Commons
met at 1 a.m. (Sydney time) Mr. Baldwin
would make a statement of tremendous
import. Crossings every now and then
to the “Sun” office for a reading of the
latest cable, with music in between, the
whole thing pleasant and entertaining.
But by 2 a.m. had Mr. Baldwin spilt the
beans? Not a bean! In fact, no change
in the position whatever. And so at
3 a.m. to knock the bottom-end out of
the bed to make room for a considerably
stretched leg.
That was Tuesday night. At the same
bait again Thursday night. This time
all national stations on the job as well,
though, as it turned out, a B station
eventually beat them with the news.
Query: Did the national people know
earlier in the week that there would be
nothing doing then? Perhaps so ; though
it may have been that a B station had
once more led the field and only missed
a big “scoop” by bad luck. B stations,
it will be recalled, similarly were first
on the job with ball-for-ball cricket de-
scriptions, with which they held a
monopoly, keeping apparently sane
people out of bed to unholy hours, for
a whole season.
At any rate the nationals, with most
other stations in every part of Australia,
were well and truly on the air early
Friday morning. About a quarter to
two 2UW broke the news with a “flash”
from London “Telegraph.” It was fully
five minutes later that the voice of Mr.
Lyons came paternally over the air giv-
ing the first news from the national
stations. Mr. Lyons did his job well —
simple, dignified, no sentimentality nor
heroics. “Land of Hope and Glory” to
follow, and after that a recorded version
of the King’s announcement read in the
Commons. Altogether an impressive
handling of a most extraordinary affair
—a King irrevocably renouncing the
British throne ; as momentous a broad-
cast as has ever been made or will be
made for many a long year.
City Short-wave Diallings.
The presence of a sunspot 25,000 miles
in diameter and large enough to swallow
Mercury, Venus, Mars and the Earth at
one gulp is sufficient perhaps to account
for the recent unresponsiveness of the
atmosphere to short-wave signals dur-
ing daylight hours. From sunset till
sunrise reception has been very good
indeed, but shortly after 6 a.m. even the
strongest stations become gradually sub-
merged under the rising background
surge. Thenceforth until nightfall every
minute spent at the receiver is a trial
of the listener’s patience.
In the last instalment of these notes
mention was made of the improved
strength of JVN. Unaccountably this
familiar Japanese station has since dis-
appeared from the dial. Two new
Japanese, however —JZK (15,150 kc.) and
JZI (9535 kc.) —have been heard, both in
the early morning and in the evening.
At 7.30 a.m. on November 27 they gave
announcements, lasting seven minutes,
in a number of different languages. It
will be recalled that for a short period
last summer Japan experimented with
two early-morning stations, JVM and
JVT. Of the new stations, JZK clashes
badly with YDC, and JZI with W2XAF.
There is a difference of only skc. be-
tween the frequencies of JZI and
VV2XAF, while those of JZK and
YDC are practically identical.
R.N.E. is another station that seems
to have vanished from the early-morn-
ing session. It may still be heard late
at night, telling the English-speaking
world what it thinks of the Fascists.
G.S.O. is still the best station in .the
early evening as regards signal strength
and clearness of reception. One
wonders, however, what has happened
to the Daventry programmes.
A new Spanish station is to be heard
in the early morning on about 30.2 m.—
a little below EAQ, but much stronger.
It plays “Marching Through Georgia’
at the beginning and end of programme
sections, blows bugles at half-hourly
intervals, and seems to have a liking for
English songs.
P. R. W.
The first two artists to visit Australia
in 1937 under A.B.C. contract will be
soprano Silvia Bernita (who is Joan
Allen, an Australian) and her husband,
Baron Petti, who has conducted opera in
pretty well every important town in Italy
and in Vienna and Nice ; also a series of
symphony concerts in Germany. Other
A.B.C. bookings for next year include
Lotte Lehmann, the young German
prima donna, one of the 1934-35 stars
at Covent Garden, where she cannot
appear this coming year owing to being
booked for the Salzburg Festival and the
Vienna State Opera, in addition to an
American tour, with the 10-weeks’ Aus-
tralian tour to follow.


K
J& J?
V°'
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
For Local or Overseas programmes there is a
Radiotron to suit every requirement. Built to the highest
standards their world-wide reputation for better perform-
and longer life is your guarantee of satisfaction.
ance
RKRIOIROHS
V 21.& 1
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.),
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
MODERNISING A PORTABLE.
The manufacture of portable broad-
cast receivers has not had the attention
from the trade that it merits. In earlier
days there were a few such productions.
but limitations in perform-
ance due to relatively ineffi-
cient valves and bulkiness
due to unsuitable batteries
prevented them from becom-
ing popular.
Battery-type valves have
improved enormously in re-
cent years, and reasonably
small batteries are now ob-
tainable. These batteries are
naturally of the light-duty
type, but the valves are now
much less greedy in filament
and plate-current demands.
Therefore a fully practicable
portable can be, designed
around five or even six
valves in a perfectly conven-
tional superhet circuit, giving
Impex A and B batteries used in the remodelled
portable. The moulded mica condensers are also a
new Impex product.
Circuit diagram of the redesigned three-valve portable
most satisfying results. Moreover, a use-
ful portable can be made up with no
more than three valves in a variation of
the old and tried tuned R.F. and regen-
erative detector arrangement. The re-
ceiver illustrated here is an example.
It was originally an Airzone four-
valve portable, made in Australia in
1927. The carrying case is not small,
but was used because it had a frame
Rear view of the chassis of the portable, removed from the
carrying case.
aerial in place in the lid. The receiver
could be duplicated in a much smaller
case, with a frame of correspondingly
smaller dimensions.
The Circuit.
This is quite straightforward. Two-
volt valves are used ; here the R.F. stage
is a KFI, the detector a 30 and the pen-
tode audio a PM22A. No C battery is
used, automatic biasing being introduced.
The detector is arranged in the familiar
Reinartz method of oscillation control,
but the coil unit is different from any-
thing previously tried in Australia.
As an experiment,
an iron core was
adopted—a Sirufer
type (Ducon Con-
denser Pty., Ltd.) —
and results have
been very satisfying.
The original tuning
condensers, having
a maximum capacity
of ,0005mfd., were
retained, and the de-
tector grid coil was
wound to suit this
tuning capacity. The
Sirufer core is made
up in an H section,
with slotted hyper-
trolitul former for the
windings. The grid
coil has 70 turns of
26 D.S.C. in one slot,
and in an adjacent
slot the continuation of the grid winding
for the reaction coil is placed with a
total of 30 turns. In a slot on the other
side of the grid coil is the primary for
coupling the R.F. stage. This is made up
of 40 turns of 36 D.S.C. When com-
pleted, the coil unit can be placed in
quite a small screening can. The speaker
is a small Amplion permag. fitted with
appropriate transformer for the pentode.
Little need be said about the actual
construction; this will be influenced a
good deal by individual ideas. The
weight of batteries is important; for this
receiver the new Impex lightweight
types were used. There are two 60-volt
light-duty units, and two special 6/60 A
cells for the filaments. - The diagram shows
that a two-volt supply is needed for the
valve filaments., This can be taken direct
from a small accumulator, but if two A
cells are used (giving three volts) it will
be necessary to include a drop resistor
of four ohms or so, depending upon
the valves used.
There is no doubt that sharpening up
in selectivity and increase in gain are en-
sured by the iron-core coil, and the make
of core mentioned is strongly recom-
mended for this and similar experi-
mental receivers. The Sirufer core has
also the advantage of a variable per-
meability adjusting screw, which in a
multi-stage tuned R.F. amplifier is in-
valuable in coil trimming.
The receiver gives a performance
equal to, if not better than, many bigger
portables, and, as the diagram shows,
external aerial and earth can be easily
applied if desired for use in a fixed posi-
tion. D. B. K.
Tuning Transposed Feeders.
Many listeners using dual-wave re-
ceivers are applying doublet aerials to
the terminals provided, as an alterna-
tive. Although the aerial may be de-
signed to be resonant at an appropriate
frequency range, the system is more or
less aperiodic, or untuned. The diagram
shows how signal pickup can be im-
proved by the simple addition of a vari-
able condenser. This may be connected
externally across terminals for doublet
connection on the chassis. Some experi-
menting may be necessary to determine
the most suitable capacity, but generally
a 23-plate midget will cover the range.
Amateur Radio Chatter.
Several Sydney experimenters are busy
with the construction of superhets with
beat oscillators for use on five metres,
and a few weeks hence a number of
stations should be equipped to deal with
better signals.
The most interesting problem in u.-s.-w.
investigation is that of aerials. After a
QSL-card collecting is the hobby of
many short-wave listeners. Here is
Irwin Goodeve, a U.S.A. listener, with a
few of his collection.
few years of trial and error the writer
considers that the most effective of all
is the Bruce system of folded half-
waves. Two of these are in use at right
angles at VK2NO, and thus bi-directional
propagation is obtained over a 40deg.
angle, N.S. and E.W. The effect on weak
signals in reception is appreciable, and
for transmission the system is superior
to many using reflectors.
Information on Bruce systems is given
in “Radio’s” Antenna Handbook, p. 58.
The dimensions are for 14mc. work, but
with a little calculation they can be
applied to 56mc.
An interesting test was conducted be-
tween the writer’s station and a portable
installation on a coastal ship. Using the
N.S. system, two-way telephony com-
munication was obtainable at R 9 plus,
over a long distance, as the ship pro-
ceeded Melbournewards. The writer is
confident that communication could have
been held well below the horizon limit,
but the operator of the other station had
to discontinue operation owing to other
demands on his time.
The u.-s.-w. section of the W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division) is growing, and at a
recent lecture by the writer on the new
eight-valve superhet for five metres
there was a large attendance. No actual
DX reception has been recorded at
VK2NO, other than a very unsteady
I.C.W. signal calling “CQ Five” and fad-
ing rapidly. Owing to the impossibility
of holding the signal by “dial chasing”
(Continued on page 50.)


dtsagwis
m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
■'%a,
liJis*
©w®** Z4k\t*
L*
h «?■-:<
*
Kto*® sSi<
188
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
"LYSAGHT’S"
WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
SPECIFY
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Stock Losses in Queensland.
“Ghanam”: Official figures show that
in 1935 21 p.c. of all sheep in Queens-
land died. The total was 4,488,006.
Mainly the cause was drought and its
aftermath. Fly directly got only 117,237
and dingoes 89,000.
In the 1915-16 drought the loss was
6,121,358. In that year 1 had a small
paddock near Enoggera saleyards, Bris-
bane. I used to go to the saleyards and
buy a few dozen staggering ewes and
wethers every week and treat them to a
week or so on what grass there was and
hay. Hay was pretty dear, but I knew my
Roma-street and I knew my districts.
That drought was worth the price of a
trip abroad to me ; many a dealer who
had country available made a fortune. I
have often wondered why, if it was pos-
sible for me, in a small way, to take sheep
on which long rail freight had been paid
and make a consistent profit, it was not
possible for the owners to pay freight
on hay to some point nearer home and
do the same. Or, if hay were not avail-
able, to load out even tree foliage from
the coast. A sheep can get along with
very little water; with moist edibles it
will survive for months.
The same story was told in 1925-26 as
in the other two ..recent bad drought
years. The loss was. 5,335,207. So that
in three years of drought in the last 20
sheep equal in number to five-sixths of
the State’s present flock have gone.
On top of that, last year’s mating pro-
duced only a 31 p.c. drop. In' 1926 it
was 34 p.c., and in 1915 30 p.c.. At the
end of 1935 only 10 p.c. of Queensland
sheep were under one year old.
The most startling fact is that there are
only 18,060,000 sheep in Queensland —
2,000,000 fewer than there were in 1890
and 3j million fewer than in 1891. There
has been little transfer of land to other
industries. .....
Since 1890 properties have, been sub-
divided, wool output per sheep has almost
doubled, artesian water has been tapped
in millions of gallons, railways have been
pushed out into sheep districts, wool
prices have risen and agriculture has pro-
gressed along with the sugar industry,
which should provide considerable arti-
ficial feed. Stock routes have been im-
proved, and if carrying capacity has not
been improved also it is the fault of
owners, not of Nature. r.•
Twenty-four. years out of the last 43
have shown declines in sheep population ;
the other 19 gains. It has been a con-
stant fight. By 1903 the 21,000,000 sheep
of 1891 had dwindled to 7,213,000. Peak
was touched at 23,000,000 in 1914. At
the beginning of 1924 the figure was back
to 16,750,000. In 1925 it hit 20,000,000.
The drought sent it back, but from' 1929
onwards till 1935 it was over 20,000,000*
The position of other stock, except
pigs, is as bad. There are 430,000 horses
in Queensland; in 1914 there were
743,000. Cattle number about 5,500,000 ;
in 1892 there were 6,591,000. The peak
cattle population was 7,000,000 in 1921.
Yet cattle areas have extended and kill-
ing and export facilities have improved
out of sight, as has inland transport.
Against all the new advantages, however,
there is severe taxation.
If it were not for general stock im-
provement and betterment in wool-pro-
ducing capacity per sheep, there would
be fears for the future of the pastoral
industry of Queensland.
Fat-lamb Breeding.
“Rom Ney”: On the question of suit-
able mothers, “Albarmount” is right as
far as he goes (B. 2/12/’36), but there’s
more to it. Enough is now known about
lamb breeds to make it possible, to recom-
mend the definitely right breed for each
district.
Southdown, Dorset Horn and Ryeland
rams are the best lamb sires, and each will
do well ini safe rainfall districts. South-
downs do best on the mild slopes country,
Ryelands thrive on cold country and are
better doers than Southdowns. Dorsets
“ You lazy hound! Where's my kindling: Wood?”
have a future in the warmer western
areas. Quick-maturing attributes " of
Dorset lambs are important in grass-seed
country ; the lambs are away before the
seed gets bad. - i
Merinos must be the basis of cross-
breeding, not only because of their
numerical superiority but because the
merino flavor is desirable. First-cross.
Border Leicester-merino ewes do \yell in
the Dorset ram country. The cross is
leggy, travels well, and can withstand a
dry spell.
The Romney-merino-cross ewe, deeper
framed and lower set than - the 8.L.-
merino, does better on the richer slopes
country where the Southdown ram
thrives. This cross is also fairly safe
with the Ryeland in cooler areas.
The foregoing is, necessarily,-generali-
sation. Every beginner, and every man
not yet satisfied with his lamb produc-
tion, must be prepared to experiment.
But there is a breeding plan for every dis-
tn C t
“Albarmount” said sufficient about
Corriedales
The great art in lamb-raising is to keep
the lamb growing. Improve the pastures
and conserve fodder to this end.
Sheep On the Coast.
~ ~ • .( •. l,
■The O.D. : There is a form.dable
array o£ argumen^ fat- lamb
ra ,^ ln S on } c f A h ;’ h . . r. l :
4/11/ 36), chief.of mnrHamh!
there is roon for more lambs
lamb district in the State. There, land,
climate and pasture are eminently more
suitable for lamb-raising than the coast,
and the land is pounds an acre cheaper.
Some agricultural papers have been
quoting .hi experiences of dairy-farmers
who have run a few sheep for years;
but in every case those sheep were
purely for family mutton, and there’s a
la a mb diffSrenCC belWee " <hal and eXPO "
Conditions are not similar to Maori-
land’s. There most lamb country is be-
tween 42deg. and 46deg. south. The
N.S.W. coast is between 28deg. and
36deg. south. And soil and natural pas-
tures are different.
Heavy spring and summer downpours,
common on,the N f SiW.'coast, would play
havoc- with < lambs,* which must have
almost* ideal weather if they are to make
uninterrupted' growth, especially as
modern breeding methods tend towards
a lamb'far more responsive to climatic
changes than the., old-time hard-doer
merino-longwool cross.
The idea seems to be that dairy-
farmers should run lambs in conjunc-
tion with cows.. But high-priced dairy-
ing country won’t carry enough lambs,
and it is extremely doubtful whether
lambs would graze after cattle, or vice
versa..
Fat-lamb raising is expanding in
N.S.W., but not on new land. The ex-
pansion is in the wheat belt, where one-
crop farming . is. being forced out in
favor of lambs and wheat. That, appar-
ently, is the ideal combination, and one
not possible on the coast. ■• •
At best, coastal lambs would be a
doubtful experiment, and as such would
not be justified while thousands of acres
along the Lachlan, ’Bidgee, Murray, Mac-
quarie, Castlereagh and other valleys
have not yet seen an ex P ort lamb.
Improved Pastures Pay,
.
T.S. : Bonnie Boon, owned by F. C.
Clarke, at Boorowa (N.S.W.), has 140
of 620 acres- under wheat and oats.
It carries 950 sheep. Pasture work began
years ago a sowing o£ | lb ,
each * ot sub f dover and wiramera rye'
per acre. It not only stopped erosion ;
the woolyidd jumped to an average
Thead this year. Paddocks
“re fop-dressed annually with lewt.
. fL j
su Py r - P er . dt - • .
O n Springfield, in the same district,
E. G. Spicer has established cocksfoot,
phalans, perennial rye and red, white,
and sub - dover - 11 can carr y four
sheep per acre,
Improved pastures pay all right,
Contagious Abortion.
“Agamemnon”: “Silky Bag” (B.
11/11/’36) is correct in his views on the
control of contagious abortion, but he’s
astray when he says infected cows de-
velop no blood-borne antibodies. It is
on the demonstration of antibodies—
usually agglutinins—that modern con-
trol methods are based.
The 'disease is at first generalised, but
later sets up persistent foci of infection
in lymph glands and udder. It is never
found in the uterus in the non-pregnant
animal, but escapes to infect the mem-
branes from the udder when in calf.
The most definite way to establish a
diagnosis is by the demonstration of
specific antibodies by agglutination.
These antibodies, while apparently un-
able to resolve the localised lesions in
the cow, are passed to the calf in the
colostrum, setting up an immunity
which persists till.after weaning.
Killed vaccines as used in Australia
are useless, but living vaccines are em-
ployed with considerable success in Eng-
land. These perpetuate the disease, and
are only useful in a country where it
is so widespread that eradication is
impracticable. Experiments in the
(Continued on page 44.)


SUNSHINE
TILLAGE EQUIPMENT
Gives
Good
Results
Wherever
Used
if H
.
»wm*
ml
r*?
i
m
a
i m
mm
V:, •
i a
m
mm
■
«■ V
i Hi
*’l.
■
■
IB
• '• ••
mm
:
■
mmm
-V
, v :
VI
:!»*
w
illiSiHil
Sunshine Tillage Equipment for small or large areas includes
horse- or tractor-pulled implements—mouldboard, disc or tyne,
whichever conditions require—for conservation of moisture,
maintenance of fertility in short or long fallow, and eradication
of weeds—those soil-robbers that take heavy toll from, moisture,
nutriment, development and profit. Here is shown an excellent
outfit: Massey Harris New Model 25 Tractor—rated drawbar
26.44 h.p.; rated belt 41.01 h.p.—pulling a Sundercut 12-disc
Stump Jump Cultivating Plough with alternate discs of different
diameters, that cultivates more soil per horsepower than any other
implement, and leaves the right tilth for moisture conservation.
Outstanding for effective work in virgin soil, hard-set fallows,
stinkwort, paddymelon, skeleton weed, etc., and with its light
draught, great strength, durability and excellent, stump-jump
device for use among stumps, stones, roughly cleared land, etc.,
is supreme as a disc cultivator for fallows and all-the-year-round
usefulness in all kinds of country. Sizes: 1 0-disc cuts sft.; 12-
disc cuts 6ft.; 14-disc, cuts 7ft. Obtainable with 20m. and 1 Om.
or 22in. and 20in. discs, and with team-steering gear hand-
steering gear, or tractor levers. Ask for the SUNDERCUT
FOLDER for full details.
SUNDUKE BRIDLE-DRAUGHT
STUMP JUMP SCARIFIER.
Compact, strong and rigid, without excess weight,
durable, light in draught and outstanding for its
work in cutting out weeds and preparing a perfect
seed-bed and mulch. All bridle-draught gear is above
the frame, giving extraordinary room from ground to
frame wherein the tynes work effectively with the
utmost clearance for surface trash. Durable one-
piece tynes can be fitted with sin., 6in., 7in., Bin. or
9in. shares, and are adjustable to set the shares for
effective penetration. Sizes: 14 tyne, cuts 7ft.; 18
tyne, cuts 9ft. Equipped for team or tractor. Ask
■ for the SUNDUKE FOLDER for full details.
SUNTYNE COMBINED TYNE
CULTIVATOR AND DRILL,
Gamniwll ieH2O2EO
A time,- labour- and money-saver to cultivate, dis-
tribute fertilizer and sow seed whenever rain, weeds
or other factors necessitate attention. Many graziers
realise its value with narrow points to give the right
surface cultivation without destroying native grasses
when ploughing is inadvisable. Spring or rigid tynes:
both take : 2±in.‘, 4in., sin. or 6in. points; special
Hin. points for renovating Lucerne, etc., for rigid
tynes. Sizes: 8 to 24 row cultivating 5 to 14 feet wide,
with or without seed-boxes. Ask for the SUNTYNE
CATALOGUE for full details.
SUNRISE STUMP JUMP
MOULDBOARD PLOUGH
An easy-to-operate fallowing plough renowned for
effective work in all conditions of soil, and especially
among stumps and stones. Roughly-cleared land can
be tilled by it years before any ordinary set plough
could work it. Great strength, light draught, few
wearing parts, smooth, easy . roller jump, smooth-
acting, convenient-to-opterate power lift, and excellent
work done are salient features praised by thousands
of users. Sizes: 3-, 4-, 5- and 6-furrow, for team or
tractor, and obtainable with equipment for special
conditions, etc. Ask for the SUNRISE MOULD-
BOARD FOLDER for full details.
Ask the local agent,
or write to the nearest branch for descriptive catalogues
with prices and liberal terms—free on request.
H. V. MeKAY
MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD
hassey Harris'
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS,
SUNSHINE.
Branches at 654-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King
Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Ķ
cV 11 *
■so 1
\<K t ic
on
He works on his
feet day after day,
wet or fine.
Also order a tin
of Dale’s English
Dubbin, which
dresses, softens
and preserves the
uppers and keeps
boots free from
all dampness.
That is why he needs footwear which
will give him perfect comfort and lasting
service.
And that is why countrymen always
repeat their order after buying Abbey
Riding Boots.
Write for a catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
. SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY:
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Mirier”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspai>er House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
5
E
as
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kinn St„ Sydney
Qgjj/e/(/-fjjpjf77p~J7yf/vo
:NVISVIVaiSnV M
/ M SMJ//liy AVWJI/7 J//117/JMOJ
Uorj& 01 iphm
'tl/e tJceav*
■&*/;
-room
Wr b) t
rii
>■■.
ssr
&
r
N
Zta/nejs
(D c GaUum’s
Jk IC/Ais/ty js-
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABEETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St.., Sydney.
U.S.A. with living but non-virulent
strains (Huddleson’s) are at present quite
hopeful, and may be of considerable use
in Australia.
Peg-leg in Cattle.
“Nothung”: Since C.S.I.R. peg-leg in-
vestigation commenced at Helenslee
(Pentland, Q.) in 1933, some interesting
facts have been established.
Peg-leg is confined mainly to the
Charters Towers area (about 5000 square
miles of the Cape and Campaspe water-
shed) and the Cloncurry area (8000
square miles on the north-east water-
sheds of the Saxby and Norman rivers).
Symptoms are under-development, rela-
tive infertility, lameness and skeletal de-
formities. Bullocks are not generally
affected, mainly because, it is thought,
they leave the drier areas for fattening.
Milking and pregnant females of from
lj to 4 years are most susceptible.
First signs are diminished flexion in
the joints of the forelimbs and exag-
gerated flexion of the hock-joints. Arch-
ing of the back follows, particularly of
the lumbar region. Later stages show
bone lesions, pelvic and vertebral dis-
tortions. Swollen joints and “knock-
knees” mark chronic cases.
Experiments so far have not proved
connection between the disease and en-
vironment. The chief facts known are
that peg-leg country is mainly deficient
in phosphorus and protein and has low
rainfall.
Dosing with dicalcic phosphate and
administering disodium phosphate dis-
solved in the drinking water produced in-
creased body weight of 47.5 p.c. and 37
p.c. respectively. Milking beasts do not
react so well as the non-milking.
Johne's Disease.
“Albarmount”: So far N.S.W. is sup-
posed to be free from this curse, but
cases have been reported in Victoria,
and a vigilant eye should be kept on
stock crossing the border, particularly on
cattle, which are the most susceptible,
though sheep and goats are also subject.
Once Johne’s gets in the only appar-
ent way of ridding a herd of it is
to have each beast tested and to destroy
all showing positive results. Infected
pastures should not be used again for
about five months —grass harboring
germs is the means of infection.
A bad aspect of the disease is that
an animal may be infected for upwards
of two years before showing symptoms,
and by that time the infection may have
spread to all paddocks and the whole
herd.
Johne’s bacillus, which closely re-
sembles tubercle bacillus, produces in-
fectious inflammation of both large and
small intestines. Persistent diarrhoea
is a marked symptom. The victim wastes
away even if well fed, the coat becomes
harsh, and later the temperature rises and
food is refused. These symptoms are
similar to those in tuberculosis or
“wasting disease,” and true diagnosis
can be obtained only by testing. If the
disease is suspected a vet. should be
called in to go through the herd.
Cattle in the North.
“Walliew”: Sponsored by the Tully
(N.Q.) Chamber of Commerce, a top-
ping-off experiment is just about com-
pleted, and a load of the fattened bul-
locks is to be trucked to Brisbane —a
very long journey which must affect
them—to be slaughtered under the super-
vision of Dr. White, bio-chemist of the
Brisbane Abattoirs. Test carcasses are to
be sent to Smithfield market.
If the scheme proves a success it will
be further developed only by concen-
trated growth of the right grasses in
place of the generally sour coastal
types. One grazier, Brice Henry, has
given a lead by pasturing some hun-
dreds of acres of scrub land with good
fattening grasses. In five months Kami-
laroi bullocks from the Gulf put on
1391 b.
Incidentally, Georgina- and Diaman-
tina-fattened cattle gave their districts
the best returns for years in the recent
southern sales.
Paterson's Curse.
“J. Want”: Two Riverina public
bodies—Wade Shire Council and Nar-
rfindera Pastures Protection Board —are
at loggerheads over Paterson’s curse.
Wade includes lands controlled by the
Water Conservation Commission, which
objects to the cutting of the weed in its
area because, the Waite Institute (Adel-
aide) does not consider the curse
noxious. Narrandera has protested that
if the curse is not checked it will spread
on a large scale from the irrigation area
and cause heavy stock losses in sur-
rounding clean country.
It is difficult to understand how any
authority could rate the curse as non-
noxious, or how any Government de-
partment could endorse the finding. The
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department
does not support the Commission’s view:
it rates P.C. among the leading dozen
weeds calling for destruction.
P.C. is a rank, coarse, hairy plant—
known in S. Australia as Salvation Jane
—and when it gets a hold it takes a lot
of stopping. Southern Europe tried it,
and its blue flower is sometimes seen as
a table decoration in its homeland. On
rich flats it will grow up to five feet
high, and its thick groundwork of foli-
age cleans up all competitive growth and
leaves the ground a desert when it dies,
off.
It is a biennial, and the only ways to
deal with it are to hand-cut it, cultivate
it in before it reaches the seeding stage,
or feed it off with a heavy stocking of
sheep when it is very young.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.L.T.”: Whitewash will resist rub-
bing and wear well if 151 b. of common
salt is added for every 501 b. of slaked
lime. The salt must be dissolved first in
gallons of water, in which the lime
should be mixed, more water being then
added till the wash has the consistency
of cream.
“Andy”: If a pigsty or a small shed
occasionally used by stock becomes in-
fected with fleas, a mixture of one part
common tobacco-dust to two parts
naphthaline sprinkled round the inside of
the place will shift them. Should be
applied about once a week.
“Stump Jump”: A spike is a dangerous
thing in stable or loose-box dooi. Re-
place with a sliding lock, made from a
piece of iron strap 6in. by l|in. by fin.,
to run between two D-plates, one bolted
to the doorpost and one to the door.
If the sliding bar is turned up at one
end and a screwed hole put in for a set
screw about its middle, it cannot fall out.
“Lam”: Watch out for white cedar
berries where there are pigs. A quarter-
pound of ripe berries will kill a 501 b.
youngster. And the Moreton Bay chest-
nut isn’t good for swine health, either.
“Zamia”: For blood scours in calves,
try one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon
in new milk. If a bad case, give a table-
spoonful of castor oil an hour before
the cinnamon dose.
“Handy Andy”: When replacing the
fly-screen wife on the dairy door save
the cut-off pieces, roll into a coil sin. or
6in. in length, bind with twine, for a
grip—and you have a useful steel scour-
ing brush.
“Sheepo”: Who says our merinos are
slipping? A ram just shorn at the
Skirling Plain stud, Quandialla (N.S.W.),
cut 541 b. of wool, the growth being just
under 11 months. The owner, David
Weir, had the fleece weighed on Govern-
ment-tested scales and had witnesses
present. When shown at the Coota-
mundra show, the animal from which
the fleece came was described by a
merino sheep classer as “the biggest
merino ram in the world.”


but where's the
KB?
t
m
<•»
A
Vk
Mb
ms
p
■
0
& ,s
NS*
. •••:•
m
«
N
/
*ICL
:
% ••
“miim
' >
4 :
u
£
/
t 9,
Make
Your Xmas
a K.B. Xmas!
sure to have plenty of K.B. in the house to give the
crowning touch to the gaiety and hospitality of Christmas.
You may have K.B. delivered to your door by ringing any
leading hotel or the Brewery (M 6501).
HOME DELIVERY Bottles 13/9 per doz.
PRICES (City & Suburbs) Half Bottles . . . 9/9 per doz.
TOOTH'S
K
LAGER
K-142-FP


ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Is Arranging a
70/6 SPECIAL XMAS DINNER 70/6
' 12.30 till 2.30 p.m.
Which will be a celebration worthy of the occasion, and suggest you make your
Reservations at once. Call, write or phone-^-M4fiol^
S P SHORT. Manaerer.
XMAS TEA —A LA CARTE —5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
QN
BANK
■ the QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— . Tames Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. hAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also'.
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Digger’s wife, Sydney, husband ill and unem-
ployed, three young children, good typist, wants
typing work.—3923.
Man (Vic.), extensive business experience,
would invest small capital in country hotel,
newsagency, etc., in return for position any-
where. —3921.
Man (N.S.W.), middle-aged, used to building
repairs, painting, etc., own tools, would like
to join house-party during Christmas holidays,
Newcastle lakes district. Refs.—3935.
Gentleman, Q’land, with 10 years’ experience
as jackeroo and overseer on sheep and cattle
stations in N. S. Wales and Q., seeks position.
Good horseman and thoroughly conversant with
all classes of station work. Excellent references.
Six years in last position.—3970.
Young invalided police constable wants to
buy for cash small office lots of modern New
Zealand and Australian stamps. (To William
Potter, 16 Houston-road, London, S.E.23.)
Ex-G.P.S. man (32), N.S.W., single, secretary,
bookkeeper, salesman, car- or truck-driver,
wants employment; go anywhere, do anything.
—3985.
Course in showcard writing wanted on loan
in exchange for good English short-story course.
—3975.
To hear from readers who are well acquainted
with Brentford, Middlesex, England.—3928.
To buy old Australian holey dollar and
dump.—3958.
To buy or borrow Dewarisms: The Quips of
Lord Dewar. —3986.
To buy copy of John Henry Smith on Golf.
—3948.
Words of song “The Absent-minded Man,”
containing the line “For I am so absent-minded
1 put the dog into my bed.” —3992.
Words of the cavalry ditty beginning:—
Sleep, soldier, though many may regret thee
Who stand by thy cold bier to-day ;
And even the kindest forget thee
—4001.
Words of poem “The Laws of the Navy,”
by Admiral Hopwood. —3950.
Words of poem “Old Bill,” by Oscar
Walters. —3925.
Information Sought.
What were the batting figures of Fingleton
and Brown and the bowling efforts of O’Reilly
and Grimmett in South Africa last year? —3929.
N.S.W. Cricket Association’s Cricket Year-
Book gives these figures: Fingleton —15 matches,
19 innings, 4 not outs, 1192 runs, average
79.46; Brown —15 matches, 19 innings, 2 not
outs, 1065 runs, average 62.64. O’Reilly—
662.5 overs, 250 maidens, 95 wickets, 1299 runs,
average 13.67; Grimmett —663.1 overs, 229
maidens, 92 wickets, 1363 runs, average 14.81.
# * =t= *
(1) Are there any pure-bred Arab studs in
Australia? (2) Where can I obtain a book on
the history of the Arab horse? —3470.
(1) A well-known N. S. Wales breeder of the
Arab horse is J. F. Jelbart, of Stony Park East,
Albury; another is A. Grace, communications
to whom should be addressed to care of
Grace Bros., Ltd., Broadway, Sydney. L.
Monod, secretary, R.A.S., Melbourne, would
be able to advise regarding Arab stud matters
in Vic. (2) Jelbart, who is acting-secretary of
the English Arab Society, may be able to advise
you on this. Brief accounts are to be found
in the Britannica and other encyclopaedias.
* * * *
At what date was Arab blood first introduced
into the English stud? —4009.
The first occasion appears to have been when
James I. imported an allegedly Arab stallion,
known as Markham’s Arabian, from Con-
stantinople, at a cost of 500 guineas. The
venture was not successful. Charles II. also
imported some Eastern horses and mares for
the royal stud, but it was not until the reign
of William III. that the first of three important
infusions of Arab blood occurred. This was
the addition to the stud of the Byerly Turk, the
charger of Captain Byerly, one of William s
officers in the wars. The Darley Arabian, a
genuine Arab, was imported a few years later,
followed by the Godolphin Arabian.
* # * *
(1) What were the seven wonders of the
ancient world? (2) What were the golden
apples of the Hesperides ? —3949.
(1) They are generally enumerated as the
Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon,
the Tomb of Mausolus, the Temple of Diana
at Ephesus, the Colossus of Rhodes, the Statue
of Jupiter by Phidias and the Pharos (light-
house) of Alexandria. (2) Those which Juno
received as a marriage gift. They were guarded
by the Hesperides, assisted by the dragon
La’don.
* * * *
Meaning and derivation of word Binghi? Is
it the same as or connected with bingy ? —3692.
Not in any available dictionary of aboriginal
words, and believed to be of other than native
origin; bingi, however, is given in W.
Bishop’s list as cousin. Bingy, or binegung, is
aboriginal for belly, and is not believed to have
any connection. A recent Abo. par. (B.
23/9/’36) suggested that the word originated
on the north-west coast, when the natives from
inland, who arrived suffering from fly-bitten
eyes, were referred to as bung-eyes, this in time
becoming binghis.
* * * *
Can a copy of the Versailles Treaty be
obtained in Sydney, and the cost? —3822.
Communicate either with the League of
Nations Union, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
or with a firm of booksellers, and ask them to
obtain it for you. The official publication,
which includes other matter as Well as the full
text of the “Treaty of Peace Between the Allied
and Associated Powers and Germany,” is
priced at 21s. net. A copy may be inspected
at the Public Reference Library, Bent-street,
Sydney, and a fairly full resume is to be found
in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, the Statesman’s
Year-Book for 1919, and other reference
annuals of the same date.
* * * *
Names and addresses of some jiu-jitsu in-
structors, together with their fees and the time
it takes to become proficient? —3B7o.
The Langridge School of Physical Culture,
278 George-street; Bjelke-Petersen Brothers,
Rowlandson House, corner Market and Castle-
reagh streets; and Grace Bros.’ Gymnasium and
Physical Culture College, Broadway—all Sydney
—give lessons in the art. The full course for
the first two named is 10 lessons, spread over
from five to 10 weeks, while Grace Bros, have
a more extended course which may be taken
weekly, bi-weekly or tri-weekly. Fees are from
30s. to £3 10s. Alfred J. Briton, 107 Pitt-
street, Sydney, sells a book containing a self-
tuition course.
*f*
(1) Address of Sir Arthur Eddington ? (2)
Earth’s diameter at geographical poles and at
equator? (3) Distance between magnetic poles
assuming same to be located at lat. l\deg. N.,
long. 96 deg. W. and lat. 13deg. S., long. 158 deg.
E. ? (4) Inclination of Venus, the earth, the
moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn? —3919.
(1) The Observatory, Cambridge, England.
(2) Polar diameter 7900 miles, equatorial
diameter 7926.7 miles. (3) 7500 miles (approx.).
(4) Venus 6deg., the earth 23deg. 27min., the
moon 6deg. 30min., Mars 24deg. 52min., Jupiter
3deg. smin., Saturn 26deg. 49min.
* * * *
What is the origin of the word maverick, and
what is its precise meaning ?— 3980.
Meaning an unbranded animal, particularly a
calf, it was named from Samuel Maverick, a
Texan cattle-raiser who declined to brand his
stock. The word is also used as a verb, “to
maverick,” meaning to steal and falsely brand
stock, a “maverick brand” being the dishonest
brand applied.
* * * *
What is “Planck’s constant,’’ usually denoted
by “h”?— 3976.
It is the quantum of action and is equivalent
to 6.55 erg seconds divided by the 27th power
of 10. Its relationship with the frequency of
the radiation is given by the expression e = hv,
where “e” is the elementary quantum of energy
and “v v the frequency of the radiation. The
dimensions of “h” are those of energy multi-
plied by time, and it is usually known as the
unit of action. The constant was first postu-
lated by Max Planck in his theory of radiation.
* * * *
Biographical details of Mary Somerville ? —■
3942.
Daughter of Admiral Sir William Fairfax;
born December 26, 1780, at Jedburgh, Scotland.
In 1804 married a cousin, Captain Greig, who
was Russian Consul in London. Widowed in
1806, in 1812 she married another cousin, Dr.
William Somerville. Her first publication of
note was a popular translation of Laplace’s
famous work, The Celestial Mechanism of the
Heavens (1830), followed by The Connection
of the Physical Sciences (1835), Physical
Geography (1848) and Molecular and Micro-
scopic Science (1866). In 1835 she was awarded
a royal pension of £3OO for her work. She
died at Naples, November 29, 1872. Somerville
College, Oxford, was named in her honor.
Her autobiography, edited and annotated by
her daughter, was published in 1873.
h= * * *
A few facts about Bond, the singer? —3977.
Allessandro Bonci, tenor, was born 1870 at
Cesena, Italy, and trained under Pesaro and in
Paris. His first appearance (1899) was in Verdi’s
“Falstaff.” He sang in London, Milan, St.
Petersburg, Paris and other European cities,
and in 1906 became principal tenor at the Man-
hattan Opera House, New York. From 1908
to 1910 he was a member of the Metropolitan
Opera Company. Later he made several con-
cert tours; was with the Grand Opera Cos.,
Chicago, and finally rejoined the Metropolitan
Opera Cos.
* * * *
Brief biography of Gigli, the singer? When
did he marry? —3939.
Beniamino Gigli, tenor, born Recanati, Italy,
March 20, 1890; studied under Rosato at Rome;
sang throughout Europe and South America,
and in 1920 joined the Metropolitan Opera
Company, New York, with which he has
appeared in many operas. Married Constanza
Cerroni, of Rome, in April, 1915; two children.
* * * *
Brief biographical particulars of Booker T.
Washington ? —3999.
Born at Hales’ Ford, Virginia, 1858, the
son of a mulatto woman and a white man. In
1872 he worked his way to Hampton Normal
and Industrial Institute, where he acted as
janitor in order to pay for his education.
After a short period as a teacher he attended
Wayland Seminary at Washjngton. In 1881 ne
organised and became principal of a school tor
negroes at Tuskegee, Alabama, and subse-
quently he acquired a reputation as one of the
ablest speakers in the country. Harvard Uni-
versity conferred an honorary A.M. degree on
him in 1896, and Dartmouth an LL.D. in 19U1.
He was the author of several volumes on negro
educational matters. He died in 1915.
* * * *
I have a 50 -h.p. three-phase 415 -volt motor,
power factor 0.8, efficiency 90 p.c. How many
K.V.A. would this machine draw from the
supply mains ? —3869.
50 h.p. is equivalent to 37.3 kw., which, at an
efficiency of 90 p.c., corresponds to a power
input of 41.4 kw. To convert kw. into K.V.A.,
divide 41.4 by the power factor. 41.4 divided
by 0.8 equals 51.75 K.V.A., which is the value
drawn from the supply mains.
* * * *
(1) Would it be practicable to run a house-
lighting generator (six points ) off a motor-cycle
engine? (2) If so, most suitable voltage for
generator? (3) What type of lamps would you
recommend ? —3908.
(1) Yes, if provision were made to prevent
engine overheating owing to its being stationary.
(2) 12-16 volts 12 amperes. Constant voltage
must be maintained either by compounding the
dynamo or by using accumulators. Certain
makes of motor-car generator will be suitable.
(3) Six 21-c.p. 12-16-volt double-contact b.c.
Mazda auto lamps. Wiring must be kept short
and heavy-gauge wire used.
* * * *
What is the extension of time granted by the
Tasmanian Moratorium Act? —3876.
The Mortgage Interest Reduction Act 1931
restricted the mortgagee’s right of enforcement
for 12 months from the date of the Act’s
operation. This period was extended to two
years by an Amending Act of 1932, and further
extended by amendment to three years in 1933,
and in 1934 still further extended to four years.
* * * *
Meaning of the expression sub rosa, and
how did it originate? —3994.
It means “in strict confidence.” Cupid gave
Harpoc’rates (the god of silence) a rose, to
bribe him not to betray the amours of Venus.
Hence the flower became the emblem of silence.
It was for this reason sculptured on the ceilings
of banquet-rooms to remind the guests that
what was spoken sub vino was not to be uttered
sub divo. In the sixteenth century sub rosa was
placed over confessionals.
* * * *
(1) Some years ago it was stated in The
Bulletin that prolonged regular consumption
of quinine had harmful effects on the system.
(1) What organs are thus harmfully affected?
(2) In what manner are they affected? (3) Is
the harm sustained by them permanent? (4)
Is there much malaria in N. Queensland and the
I V.T. ?— 3952.
(1) Quinine taken over long peritpds is a
cardiac and nervous depressant. It is also a
cause of digestive upset. (2) The drug may
produce palpitation, shaking and twitching,
singing in the ears and dyspepsia or vomiting.
(3) The trouble disappears when quinine treat-
ment is discontinued. (4) Commonwealth Year-
Book (1935) reports 998 cases of malaria in
Queensland during 1934; of these 987 occurred
among natives of Torres Strait and Cape York
Peninsula. There were 36 cases of malaria in
the N.T. during the same period.
* He * *
What is spondylitis ? Is it a progressive com-
plaint, or can it be arrested ? Treatment ? In
my case some of the vertebree of the spine are
affected on the inside, and the pressure on the
nerves thereabouts means severe pain, particu-
larly when reclining. —39 81.
The disease is an inflammation or arthritis of
the joints of the spinal vertebras. It is fre-
quently progressive, but its advance may be
checked and pain relieved by treatment. This
varies according to the nature and extent of the
disease, but in general diathermy suitable exer-
cise and injections of gold salts are used.
Treatment requires medical supervision.
* * * *
Two years ago I fell from a horse
and damaged my right arm. It appeared to
be the ligaments, and not the bones, that were
affected. The arm is not at all stiff now, but I
cannot fully straighten it, there being a slight
bend at the elbow, and any attempt to straighten
it fully results in pain. My age is 36.
Is any treatment likely to enable me to
straighten the arm fully? —3953.
Probably there are fibrous adhesions and
callus formation in or about the elbow-joint.
If the range of movement is little reduced, best
plan is to leave the joint alone. If there is
greater loss of function the part may be moved
by a surgeon and treated with electricity and
hot air. A preliminary requirement is an X-
ray photograph.
* * * *
I suffer from irritation in the lower part of
the body after swimming. What can be done
to prevent or counteract this? —3667.
The trouble is probably due to infection by
a tinea or fungus. Apply for three days
(once daily) a solution of silver nitrate (10
grains) in loz. of spirits of nitrous ether. The
solution will blacken anything it touches, and
may cause some reddening and irritation of the
skin. Keep out of the baths while the trouble
lasts.
* * * *
(1) Twenty years ago, when I was 16, a piece
was broken off the top of one of my teeth, and
I had it crowned. The crown recently came off.
The tooth appears quite sound. Should a fresh
crown be fitted or the tooth extracted? (2)
What prophylactic steps can be taken against the
possibility of contracting pyorrhea ?— 3955.
(1) The practice of “crowning teeth has
fallen into disfavor to a great extent; many
dentists consider that crowns are merely a cover
for sepsis. Extraction is recommended. (2)
Pyorrhea is largely the result of improper diet,
and to prevent it the eating of fresh meat, fiuit
w ~
and vegetables is recommended. The use ot
hard toothbrushes, which abrade the gums and
so lead to infection, is to be avoided.
Brief Answers.
S.A.: Know of no “betting system” that’s
worth a row of pins... .G.H.D.: The height of
Mt. Oxley, situated about 20 miles east of
Bourke (N.S.W.), is 1005ft C.F.J.: Exact
terms of covenant are not stated. Should say
its operation ceased on the death of A. It is
purely a personal undertaking between A and
X, not affected by changes in the partnership.
H.L.M.C.: Apply to shipping cos
A.K.: See Rudimentary Treatise on the Manu-
facture of Bricks and Tiles, Dobson and
Searle (10s. 6d.); Plano-convex Bricks and the
Method of Their Employment, P. Delougaz
(10s. 6d.); and Modern Brick Making, A. B.
Searle (63s.) C.D.: Write N.S.W. Agricultu-
ral Department for leaflet “Manufacture of
Dairy Butter”... .HJ.B.: (1) The Mary
Green does not appear on the shipping lists up
to the year 1842, after which date the system
of indexing was discontinued. (2) The records
relating to arrivals subsequent to 1842 are the
property of the Customs Department, and
although deposited at the Mitchell Library,
Sydney, are not accessible except by special
permission of the department P.W.B.:
Nettie Palmer has had two books of verse pub-
lished, The South Wind (1914) and Shadowy
Paths (1915) N.S.: A typewriting machine
was patented by Henry Mill in 1713, but it
was not until 1872 that the first practical
machine was put on the market. This was a
Remington, and was invented by C. Latham
Sholes. It typed capitals only. The first shift-
key typewriter (writing both caps and small)
appeared in 1878... .T.R.: Hakluyt is pro-
nounced hak- loyt; Foulkes, fokes or fooks;
Berlioz, ber-le-o ; Ayscough, as-kew; Le Queux,
le- kew; Palgrave, pawl-grave; and Scrimgeour,
skrim-]ox J.R.: Lead poisoning has occa-
sionally been traced to the handling of vul-
canised rubber for trade purposes, and lead
(which damages the kidneys) can enter the body
by any route and in many disguises. Still, there
are no recorded instances of fearful illnesses
following the wearing of rubber belts
V. : Your eligibility for a pension would not
ordinarily be affected by the purchase of a
farm. If income exceeded 15s. per week,
excess would be deducted from the maximum
weekly rate of pension that would otherwise
be payable... .P.W.P.: Lessons in Verse Craft,
S. Gertrude Ford (7s. 6d.); The Study of
Poetry, Blackwood and Osborn (2s. 3d.); How
to Write Verse, G. J. H. Northcroft (5s. 3d.).
. ...W.W.: Approximate value, 15s.
C.G.: Nose-bleeding is not a disease of itself,
but a symptom of any one of numerous dis-
eases. It may be caused by nasal troubles,
blood disorders, increased blood pressure,
various infections, etc. No treatment can be
prescribed until the cause of the bleeding is
determined C.B.H.: Can imagine no cir-
cumstances in which a university could get
guidance on history from screen plays. Such
productions are always largely compounded of
fiction R.Z.: (1) Yes, unless the muscles and
associated tissues are insufficiently strong. This
is sometimes the case with elderly patients, for
some of whom a truss is preferable to opera-
tion. (2) About three weeks. (3) Fee ranges
between 10 and 25 guineas. (4) No. (5) Almost
invariably when done by an experienced
operator. (6) Yes C.J.R.: (1) Description
shows that the thrombosis has seriously blocked
the circulation of the leg and that the swelling
and pain are likely to continue indefinitely. The
usual methods of treatment comprise warm
baths and douches, diathermy, massage and the
wearing of supporting bandages. In some cases,
the blocked vessel may be removed surgically,
but this is a matter for expert opinion. You
would be wise to consult a surgeon. (2) Can-
didates for an invalid pension must be certified
by a doctor as totally incapacitated for all
work A.J.L.: Coolalie is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning “south wind”... .A.C.:
London International Press, 4 Carmelite-street,
London, E.C.4 A.H.B.: (1) N.S.W. has won
20, Victoria 15, South Australia 5. (2) S. Aus.
won in 1893-94, 1909-10, 1912-13, 1926-27 and
1935-36. (3) Grimmett’s bowling efforts are:
(a) 106 wickets for 3439 runs, average 32.44;
(b) 377 wickets for 9757 runs, average 25.88
F.E.J.: Send a clean quart bottle filled with the
water to the Department of Agriculture and
Stock, Brisbane, which will inform you of the
amount of gypsum required for rectification.
Gypsum may be obtained from Australian Gyp-
sum Products Pty., Brisbane Wharves. Their
price for manurial gypsum is £5 10s. per ton
at the wharf in Brisbane....E.B.: The sorrel
weed can be eradicated only by constant culti-
vation. The soil must be dug and any traces
of the weed completely removed and burnt.
A piece one inch long will shoot if left in the
soil. Know of no weed-killers that are effec-
tive for the purpose. They should be used only
in paths, where injury to the soil doesn’t matter.
E.J.N.: Case is one for examination by a vet.
. ...A.J.P.: (1) Not for Fools, The Eternal
Masquerade, Adam and Eve and The Natural
State are other books by the author. (2) It is
not the function of this page to express opinions
on controversial subjects. (3) Can’t recom-
mend any, but any of the big booksellers will
give you a list. (4) That’s a matter each indi-
vidual must find out for himself... .H.W.G.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Department for
pamphlet “Pasture Improvement in Coastal
Districts” W.W.F.: There is no cookery
class for male students at Sydney Technical
College, but need is realised and provision is
contemplated. If you apply for instruction to
the East Sydney Technical College your name
will be noted as an intending student, and you
will be advised if a class is formed
W. Employees of the N.S.W. tramways
are now granted leave with full pay for the
minimum annual continuous training required
in the year, and in addition are allowed leave
with full pay for two days for attendance at
one school, class or course of instruction in
the year. Any additional leave is granted with-
out pay or in lieu of annual leave... .E.H.:
Not worth much more than one or two shillings
per copy... .A.S.: Particulars too vague. Send
rubbing of coin.... (Many others mailed.)


SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Your Smartest
Travelling Salesman
an INTERNATIONAL
PANEL VAN
In the medley of street traffic your eye will
single out —time and again—a smart, stream-
lined, smooth-running panel van it's an
International! . . . For your delivery work, invest in an
International panel van —wherever it goes it will help to
identify your business with the best business . . . Store-
keepers, butchers, bakers, grocers—all who use International
vans proclaim the high quality of their goods to the wide
world—they gather up—and retain—the cream of the
trade.
Available in two wheelbases —113 and 125 inches—the
strongly-knit all-truck chassis lend themselves to a great
variety of body designs.
See International about a delivery van—or any other truck
you need—the International line includes utilities and 5-ton
vans, 20-cwt., 30-cwt., 35-cwt., 2,3, 4 and 5-ton trucks—and
six-wheelers in 3 to 10 ton capacities in various wheelbases.
Let us tell you more about any model that interests you . . .
call or write.
IB
m
K
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
2300.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
. , . , _ „ character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
No the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
flLfy t*Z,TZ,no MS. will b e
J.BJ.: Try doing a tenth as much 10 times
b etter G. 8.: You might give “The Christian
Church” a fly in Russia. Can’t think of any
market for the other... .N.A’V.: “Nostalgia
at least equal to all the other efforts which bear
that name.... Hoit: The neddy made a fair
sprint in the Cashbox Stakes, but his jockey
failed to draw weight G.L.C.: Don’t fancy
either of those.... Edge C.: Extraordinarily
bad C.E.H.: “Voiceless” has to remain so,
and “Lost Bohemia” is lost indeed A.L.H.:
Points in the sea piece, but lines like Supporter
fair of many a man-made keel” would ruin any-
thing... .A.G.M.: No use for reprint 8.L.:
Apt enough, but even as a subject for verse
Lang is due for the discard E.E.: Unwanted.
W.L.R.: Well, if your heart’s in the wheat
why not let yourself follow it? ... .W.F.D.: No
ginger in it... .H.C.8.: But even if a flannel,
in the outback acceptation of the word, might
be held to correspond to a shirt, it certainly
isn’t a vest T. 5.8.: Heavy going A.C.D.:
A dismal, aimless piece... .R.W.T.: Same two
urgers have whispered in our ears before....
EJ.: Might suit a women’s paper H.T.G.:
Too verbose C.G.M.: Pointless A.M.R. :
An unconvincing ending... .F.J.F.: Compari-
son was too flimsy a peg to carry the tale....
M.D.M.F.: Meatless bones E.H.: Mediocre.
C.M.: The conversion of Zephyr too
tamely t01d... .R.R.: We’ll have to spend
Christmas without your turkey... .J.C.S.: As
heavy as the damper must have been... .J.R.:
Only the skeleton of a yarn S.L.R.: No
entry for the prof F.W.: Sob story misses
by fair margin... .W.H.L.: You make the
d.ts. sound no more exciting than a sneezing
fit WJ.M.C.: Consigned to a dark corner
of the w.p.b F.W.H.: Off our beat....
G.M.8.: A yawn-producer... .J.C.M.C.: You
could have squeezed a lot more fun out of the
situation F.P.8.: Both commonplace
8.M.: No perching-place here for the crow....
F.C.: Left at the barrier... .E.C.: Only a
paragraph in it....A.D.: With a little polish
it might earn a cheque... .C.D.: “Homesick!”
Back it went A.M.: A little less about the
old woman and more about the dog might
have helped it in....A.P.: Both are under-
weight. .. .K.A.: “Cat Killers” never for a
moment won our interest... .L.T.: The sort
you forget a second after reading... .M.S.:
Dull and rambling... .D. 8.: A sugary trifle.
D.C.: Not in our paddock... .R.F.S.:
Can’t subsidise “The Stranger”... .E.W.: Not
up 8.G.: An idea there, but you’ve fallen
down on it... .A.M.C.: “The Test” failed to
pass it... .M.L.8.: Creditable without being
quite up to the mark... .S.C.S.: Metrically cor-
rect verse, but very little in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.: Neat drawing overweighted by heavy
gag....C.R.: Figures are wooden and out of
proportion... .E.W.: Strive for a more smooth
and flowing line, and don’t resurrect old jokes.
P.F.: Haven’t you put the wrong name
under the caricature? .... W.M.H.: A few years
of hard study and you might reach publication
standard... .P.J.P.: Failure to apply a fixative
caused the drawings to arrive in a terrible state.
H.L.: Might do as illustrations for a mil-
liner’s advt., but useless to us... .E.R.N.: You
can draw tramlines... .V. 8.: Cricket cartoon
hopeless.... J.C.: That Jacky-and-the-aero-
plane gag is at least 20 years 01d....T.C.:
Looks as if you had dipped a cactus in tar and
hurled it at a sheet of Bristol board....
W.P.D.: Promising; cultivate a less hesitating
line B.B.: Why give your characters stove-
pipes for legs and pumpkins for heads?
N.M.G.: Don’t wait until a topic is com-
pletely stale before sending along a cartoon....
A.N.L.: The only corner it will fill is one in
the basket F.J.: The yards and yards of
packing led us to expect a masterpiece. It
wasn’t W.J.C.: Can detect some improve-
ment —your signature is getting neater....
A.C.G.: Jest might have amused the family,
but it wouldn’t interest our readers R.W.S.:
An untidy array of blots, smudges and half-
completed erasions tacked on to a worn-out
joke G.L.: It wouldn’t be Christmas if that
old chestnut didn’t lob in N.H.C.: As bad
examples they have points J.H.: You might
have explained why Lyons is perched on top
of a chimney while Hughes is playing leap-
frog with an unidentified person in the lane
below D.N.: We have a staff artist doing
that class of stuff... .CJ.S.: You’re shaky on
anatomical details... .T.W.: No hope tor the
battered gent, with the three-legged petrified
dog W.W.T.: Slick linework, but a very thin
wheeze... .L.N.: It was destined from the start
to do the return trip.
“El V.”:
If crises do nothing else they show Australia
the measure of its' press. One Sydney paper, dis-
cussed King Edward’s staff. Most of the gentle-
men assigned to it had left office three months
ago. Another came out with the announcement
that Parliament had been called together hur-
riedly to “pass the Statute of Westminster”—
which was passed five years ago. And a
morning paper made Mrs. Simpson call at
Vienna on her way from Boulogne to Cannes.
Which would be like dropping in at Innamincka
en route from Brisbane to Sydney.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Four years’ apprenticeship to the engi-
neering trade would scarcely be reckoned
much of a start for a stockbroker, but
it gave Henry Kitson, recently re-elected
chairman of Maoriland’s Stock Exchange
Association, invaluable knowledge of his
fellow-men. Lyttelton’s ships and
machinery taught Kitson a lot. After
that he was with the Bank of Austra-
lasia for 14 years before the war; when
he reached M.L. again he gave up sol-
diering for stocks and shares. He has
been chairman of the Christchurch Stock
Exchange since 1934.
* * * *
The judgment of William Teeling m
his book Gods of To-morrow, after
meeting a group of 32 Australian Minis-
ters and ex Ministers.
Out of all that group only two men
, . Uip
war-time Prime Minister, Billy Hughes, the
other the Minister for the Interior, Mr.
Paterson, born, I understand, both of them.
• rv-o* BriiJn
Mr. Teeling is very Oxford and very
English. He spells Rabaul “Raboul,”
and speaks of native doctors being used
tn rnrp “vims ”
* * * i
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Police col-
leges and scientific crime investigation
~.x , . , , „
notwithstanding, the English lawbreaker
manages to get one across now and then,
A Scotland Yard Flying Squad parked
its wireless-equipped special bandit-
pursuit car in Blackfriars while it had a
bit of tea. When the super-Johns re-
turned the car was gone. Their tele-
P h ° ned r fP° rt had every squad, station
“ d constable warned within 10 minutes
throughout the metropolitan area. Next
day the car was found abandoned on the
city outskirts, destitute of any clue. A
trail of successful burglaries, obviously
selected by the aid of the official wire-
less instructions issued by the Yard dur-
ing the search—which, of course, the
stolen car also received—furnished
material for a rough track of its course.
If the lads who pulled off that job are
ever located, they should be put on to
secret-service work on the Continent-
» interests.
“C. 8.,” from London:
' , , , F Q ,
A white-haired, kindly-faced old man of 83
sto « d in the Old Bailey dock and listened to his
sentence of three years penal servitude for
coining. Twenty-four years before he had been
sentenced to 10 years for forging Bank of Eng-
land notes; before that he had been a “forger
k i ng ” j n the U.S.A., operating a factory for
the production of spurious notes and coin. And
Jong before that again, a small boy in Mel-
bourne had regarded him as a kind of demigod,
a laughing, joking hero, inexhaustible in the
handing out of half-crowns (they were good
ones, too), and his pretty wife as the most
beautiful and charming person on earth. A
fine horseman, he taught that small boy to ride,
and was no prouder kid under the
southern Cross when Jim Wilson announced
that he’d do on a horse. I know, for I was
that kid.


I
w
w
Model 2269. Chromium-plated
2-cell Focussing Torch, as illus-
trated; ideal tor hip pocket or
pocket of your car. Price,
complete
6 7 6
Ķ
Model 4758. "Wallite" fitted
with automatic switch and finished
in deep chromium lac- y #
quer. Price complete, IA O
- p
© *
%
Model 2569. Chromium-plated
2-cell Spotlight; focusses by screw
adjustment of the head, wmj jr
Price, complete #_ W.
Ever Ready
TORCHES
csw
Sber^obular
Model 1169. Junior Torch;
engraved ribbed metal
body, chromium-plated,
inch reflector. Jl/A
Price, complete .... "w *
Model 2247. Gaslighter;
clean, reliable and instant-
aneous; battery w f gJL
lasts 2 years. Price, / Cl
'IIIUII’1 1
w>
Model 2036. Electric Cycle
Lamp; stove black finish, nickel fit-
tings; fitted with spring bracket,
screw switch; carrying handle and
"Long Lyfe" Battery. M/g?
Price, complete "v ©
ft
A
m
mm
jLF you are looking for an
Xmas gift that is both useful and
inexpensive—look at these bril-
liant EVER-READY suggestions.
Made by the makers of the
world-famous Ever-Ready Bat-
teries, they answer many a
man's unspoken need. If unable
to obtain from your usual dealer,
write direct to The Ever-ready
Co. (Aust.) Ltd., 40 Marshall
Street, Sydney.
Model 3863. (At left.) 3-cell
Searchlight, specially designed for
maximum range; chromium-plated,
ribbed body; 3 in. re- «g«|/4L
flector. Price, complete, II O
Model 2338. (At right.) A rear
light which will enable you to be
seen on the darkest road; with it a
white disc as specified in regula-
tions, is not required, a j
Price, complete m
r
W'-*
■
i /m
Model 2292. Headlamp; throws
beam of light that moves with
every turn of the head; leaves
hands free. Nickel-plated battery
container can be attached to
belt or pocket. Price,
complete I ”
I
m
0
»
IX Ml
Brisbane 's Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in
the whole of the area
of Greater Brisbane.
“The Telegraph”
carries the largest
share of local display
and classified adver-
tisements.
The man on the spot
knows relative values .
To follow his example is
often wise.
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
A MIXED GRILL.
Alfred Catlett Charles Henry Kean,
gone on the other day at 76, was a link
with one of Sydney’s earliest seminaries,
the Cleveland House School (established
1826), which gave its name to Cleve-
land-street. George Judah Cohen and
Archdeacon Boyce had their education
there, besides a number of distinguished
citizens of an earlier vintage. Kean’s
father was principal, and Alfred was an
assistant master for a time before getting
into business.
* * * *
The younger generation at law had
almost forgotten E. R. Gore-Jones when
he died at 87 in Brisbane the other day.
He was Queensland’s oldest barrister,
and he and his father formed about the
longest family legal stretch in Queens-
land. Gore-Jones, senior, was one of the
earliest Ms.L.A. for Warwick (Q.), and
was afterwards a Crown Prosecutor. The
son was for a long time Master of Titles,
with the right of private practice, and
served more than once as an acting-
judge.
“M.”: I nominate as one of The
Bulletin’s oldest readers William J.
Warnes, of Sherwood, Brisbane, who has
touched 101. Half-way through his life
he gave up a farm in England and
settled with his offspring at Strathpine
(Q.). His eyes are not as good as they
were —he had an operation on them
three years ago—but he still manages
his weekly pink budget. He has a family
of 12 and descendants to the fourth
generation.
* * * *
R. H. Weddell retires after 10 years
at the Darwin Government House —a
record for modern times. Weddell was
a schoolmaster at Scotch College, Mel-
bourne, before the war, and went away
as a captain in the 7th Battalion, which
he commanded on the Peninsula before
being invalided home. He was after-
wards inspector-in-charge of the Com-
monwealth Investigation Department in
W.A.
* * * *
Major Howson, founder and chairman
of the British Legion’s poppy factory,
who went West in London the other day,
had an Australian link —his widow is a
daughter of William Gibson, of Mel-
bourne. Badly damaged at the war, How-
son in 1922 began making Armistice Day
poppies, with five helpers. To-day the
factory employs 368 disabled ex-service-
men and turns out 30,000,000 poppies a
year.
* * * *
“El V.” on an Australian dynasty:
The legal Allens of Sydney are one of the
most extraordinary families in Australia. The
original member, George—a son of George
lll.’s physician—arrived in Australia in 1816.
The first attorney admitted in the N.S.W.
Supreme Court (1822), he was also a member
of the first Sydney City Council and first N. S.
Wales Legislative Council, and he was an early
senator of Sydney University. His son, George
Wigram, was knighted, held a couple of port-
folios under Henry Parkes, became Speaker of
the N. S. Wales Legislative Assembly, and fol-
lowed his father on the University senate. His
son and a grandson carry on the legal tradition
in the old firm of Allen, Allen and Hemsley,
which has had continuous existence since the ad-
mission of the first Allen as a solicitor. Two
sons of George Wigram went to England. One
of them, commandant of the London metropoli-
tan special constabulary, was knighted after the
general strike of 1926. Another joined the
army, has for some time been colonel of the
British special reserve of officers and has a
daughter who is to marry Baron Patti, and who
is one of Europe’s leading sopranos; she will
visit Australia at the invitation of the A.B.C.
G. O. Allen, captain of the English cricket
team, is an Australian-born cousin of hers; he
is another descendant of George Wigram.
* * * *
“Hayes Kop”: Many Australians
cannot forgive Adam Lindsay Gordon
for writing of this country as a land
“where bright blossoms are scentless and
songless bright birds,” though to my
mind the repetition of “bright” stresses
an obvious qualification which such
critics insist on ignoring. Anyhow, if
Gordon did libel our flora, he wasn’t
the only exotic bard to do so. Some-
body has exhumed a poem by John
Boyle O’Reilly, the Irish patriot, who
was transported in the ’sixties and es-
caped from Bunbury in a Yankee whale-
boat 67 years ago. O’Reilly apostro-
phises Westralia as “beauteous South-
land,” but after a few more compliments
indulges in a tilt at Nature:
Who painted with fresh hues thy myriad flowers
But left them scentless! Ah! their woeful
dole,
Like sad reproach of their Creator’s powers,
To make such sweet fair bodies void of soul.
It is improbable that O’Reilly had ever
read Gordon’s verses and quite impos-
sible that Gordon ever read O’Reilly’s.
Yet they arrived at exactly the same
conclusion.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: In a recent probate
matter there was an echo of the Redfern
tunnel smash, Sydney’s most appalling
railway accident. A shop assistant was
in it; he received £9OO compensation.
It provided him with a home of his own
—homes were cheap in those days—and
a start in a small business in what was
then half bush. The rest was easy. His
estate for probate purposes was sworn
at £32,000; and, in spite of injuries
received, he lived to a hale old age. It
is worth while to have an accident some-
times.
* * * *
“D.K.”: They have found a new way
of spending unemployed-relief tax-money
in Queensland. In 18 months or so
£112,769 has been provided by the Gov-
ernment for the pay* of “intermittent
relief-workers employed on properties
owned or controlled by religious de-
nominations in Brisbane.” In the fol-
lowing proportions:
R.C., £87,385; C. of E., £13,693 ;
Methodist, £4842; Methodist and Presby-
terian combined, £3858; Presbyterian,
£2771; Baptist, £1585; Congregational,
£309; Salvation Army, £248; Jewish, £BO.
* * * *
N. S. Wales has 15 State Ministers.
Heaven alone knows what they find to
do except borrow and concert plans for
more borrowing, ladle out tax-money to
semi- or wholly-insolvent public bodies
and meekly countersign the decrees of
boards and commissions.


UNION
LINE
wuHdfg
0//1Q
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ... 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney . . .
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand,
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, *5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
bookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
MODERN BUILDINGS
Call for
RELIABLE EQUIPMENT
K
“HUSH” SILENT FLUSHERS
a s illustrated were
installed throughout the
RURAL BANK
Other large city buildings that rely on Hush Service
Reliability are listed below.
Bank of N.S.W., Collins St., Melbourne
Myers Bourke Street, Melbourne
Victoria Palace, Eitt. Collins St., Melb.
Hotel Windsor, Spring St., Melbourne
I’oy & Gibson, Bourke St., Melbourne
Prince of Wales Hotel St. Hilda
Kodak Collins Street, Melbourne
Age Chambers .. Collins St., Melbourne
Metro Theatre . . Collins St., Melbourne
His Majesty’s Theatre, Exhibition St.,
Melbourne
London Insurance Co., Market Street,
Melbourne
Bethesda Hospital Richmond
Epvvorth Hospital Richmond
Hospital Bundoora
HAW Eatrobe St., Melbourne
Miller House, Et. Collins St., Melbourne
Metropolitan Gas Co., Flinders Street,
Melbourne
Nobels Deer Park
Town Hall Box Hill
Town Hall Richmond
Town Hall Heidelberg
Carlton Hotel, Bourke St., Melbourne
Australian Provincial Assurance Co.,
Etd., Sydney
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co.,
Etd., Sydney
Bank of N.S.W., Goulburn St., Sydney
Bank, Rural, of N.S.W., Head Office,
Sydney
Broken Hill Pty. Co., Etd., Newcastle
New South Wales
Carlton Hotel, Etd., Castlereagh Street,
' Sydney
Canberra Hotel Brisbane
Civic Hotel Canberra
Commonwealth Steel Products, Ltd.,
Newcastle
I)e Ha Salle Seminary Castle Hill
Kingston Hotel Canberra
Eynesbury Flats .... Edgeclifif, N.S.W.
Gloucester Flats, Bondi Beach, Sydney
Havilah Flats Potts Point, Sydney
Langham Hotel Sydney
Manly Surf Sheds Manly, Sydney
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and
Drainage Board, Sydney
N.S.W. Railway Administrative Build-
ings, Wynyard Square, Sydney
St. Euke’s Hospital, Darlinghurst,
Sydney
The Trocadero, George Street, Sydney
The Trust Building, King and Castle-
reagh Streets, Sydney
The Vanderbilt Flats, Darlinghurst,
Sydney
Woolworths, Etd., Market St., Sydney
And many other buildings too numerous
to mention.
“HUSH” FLUSHERS are guaranteed against
mechanical detects due to any possible fault in
construction for a period of 5 years from date
of purchase.
INSIST ON “HUSH”
THE SILENT FLUSHER.
Manufactured by:
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 Bourke Street, 324-330 Pitt Street,
MELBOURNE. Tel.: Cent. 8380. SYDNEY. Tel.: M 6505.
THE YOUTH
COMPETITIONS
“'T'HE BULLETIN” has received abundance of evidence that
1 its competitions for youths who want to get on but see no
present prospect of realising their ambitions are appreciated.
In one case the prize will amount to the sum of Fifty Pounds
(£5O), which will be paid by The Bulletin Newspaper Company,
at its discretion, to further the winner’s advancement in the
study, business or calling of his choice.
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship; in
other words, a job on “The Bulletin.
“The Bulletin is to be congratulated,” said
Mr. A. A. Dunstan, the Premier of Victoria.
“In addition to providing one meritorious
boy with a position and another with a cash
prize, the competitions will have the important
result of helping to focus public opinion on the
parlous plight of many lads who, through no
fault of their own, have been unable to secure
employment.
“At a time like the present,” Mr. Dunstan
added, “movements such as those initiated by
The Bulletin deserve the fullest appreciation
of the community.”
“Cadetships on metropolitan papers are diffi-
cult to obtain,” said Mr. S. E. Pratt, general
secretary of the Australian Journalists Associa-
tion. “Youths seeking openings in the pro-
fession have realised this after their names have
been added to successive waiting lists. .
“The Bulletin’s offer provides an excellent
opportunity for the boy showing the most apti-
tude. He will enter the profession through an
Australian paper held in high regard by experi-
enced journalists.”
Competitors for the £5O prize may be any
age from 17 to 22. They will be required to
give in writing plain accounts of themselves,
their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth wlm, considered as a
citizen in the making, will, in the editor’s judg-
ment, put it to the best use.
He may be a student stumped for books or
feesa budding scientist who cannot at present
buy needed apparatus; a lad with a mechanical
bent who is short of money for tools or for a
premium; an embryo flying or wireless man
who cannot finance a course; a young fellow
starting in some carrying or other business to
whom £5O would be a godsend; a country lad
who with £5O could do something in the share-
farming line or buy some implement or even
pay a deposit on a bit of land, perhaps having
some friendly neighbor who may be willing to
give a lad a chance.
The Bulletin wants the stories of such lads,
and of hundreds of others. Not necessarily
for publication in every case —no doubt in
some cases there will be written things which
should not be made public—but so that it may
arrive at a fair judgment, and also that it may
collect evidence that will second the efforts of
those good people who have taken up the cause
of unemployed lads and of others whose oppor-
tunities have been tragically restricted by the
depression.
It will not be expected of any entrant for
Youth Competition No. 1 that he must be a
practised writer. If he makes out what is
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 1
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY
POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would
do with the money. Lead up to it by giving a
short account of yourself and your experiences,
stating your age, condition, whether living at
home or out in the world; if no longer at
school, how old you were when you left it, and
so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but
try not to make it too long. Facts are the
essential things. And write on one side of the
paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cut-
ting in the places specified and get one of the
responsible parties mentioned below to certify
to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to
your essay and address both to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won’t
matter a bit if his grammar is rocky and he
can’t spell.
Character, courage and a clear and logical
purpose—these are the things that will tell.
In the other competition, however, literary
merit or aptitude will necessarily be a deciding
factor.
The Bulletin wants a lad who may be
trained to become a responsible member of its
staff, and naturally preference will go to the
boy who, on the evidence of the writing sub-
mitted, will seem most likely to supply the
requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths
in the 17-22 age group living anywhere in the
Australian Commonwealth or Territories or in
New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads
living anywhere in Australia or its Territories
or New Zealand, but they must be aged 17, 18
or 19.
In each case youths living remote from
Sydney will start equal with residents of Sydney
as regards chances of landing the prize.
If the winner of Youth Competition No. 2
happens to be a Victorian, a Queenslander, a
South Australian, a Westralian, a Tasmanian, a
New Zealander or a resident of any of the Aus-
tralian Territories, or of N. S. Wales beyond
Sydney, The Bulletin Newspaper Co. will pay
his fare to Sydney and see that he is installed
in a decent home.
If, after a fair trial, he d9es not like the job
or the job does not like him, he will be sent
back to the place he came from at the expense
of The Bulletin Newspaper Company.
Throughout The Bulletin’s history many
members of its staff have been brought from
parts of Australia other than N.S.W., and from
Maoriland.
James Edmond came to The Bulletin from
Queensland, S. H. Prior from Broken Hill
(then virtually part of S.A.) and the present
editor from Westralia.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association)
rates for cadets are £2 a week the first year,
£2 15s. the second year and £3 15s. the third
year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 12s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to
Sydney, the first year’s salary will be made up
to £2 10s., and the lad will have opportunities
of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
Entries for both competitions will be re-
ceived to the end of February.
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 2
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A
WRITER.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to
1200 words—though there will be no hard-
and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course
your reading has taken, your favorite poet
(and why), the prose-writer you prefer (and
why), what sort of memory you possess, and
whether you have had anything printed in
your school paper or in some other publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one c>f
the responsible persons mentioned below, pin
it to your essay and post to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME ...
ADDRESS


RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal —-
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-.
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature ROW.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post'
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others- from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6 ; 224, 4/6 ;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6 ; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. AH tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
>">l
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
price l£d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Radio Constructors,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
the. call was not logged, but it was
thought to have been a VK4. Yet an-
other illustration of the necessity for
stable transmitters for such work.
VK2NO.
Clean Contacts Mean Better
Reception.
Many letters reach the writer asking
the cause of trouble in receivers, describ-
ing symptoms which by a little applica-
tion of commonsense could be put right
in a moment or two.
It is quite possible for a receiver to
develop symptoms of weak volume or ex-
cessive background noise by reason of
poor contact somewhere in the circuit
network. A prolific source of such
trouble is the valve pins and sockets,
particularly where a receiver has been
in long use in a moist atmosphere. After
a year or so valve pins lose their bright
surface, and socket contacts similarly.
Oxidisation produces partial insulation,
with the result' that a valve may be mak-
Above—Now a museum antique! What
the broadcast receiver of 1922 looked
like. Valves of the famous “R” type
cost around £2 each, and their useful
life was very limit eel.
Below. —A more advanced receiver of
two years later, the then popular ‘‘tuned
anode” arrangement. About this time,
the “dull emitter” valve came into use.
ing poor contact at one or more of the
pins. The remedy is simple. Remove
the valves from the sockets and clean
the pins with fine glass paper. Then put
them in and pull them out a few times
to clean the inside of the socket con-
tacts. This treatment can often rejuven-
ate a receiver remarkably.
A case of poor contact is recalled
where the writer was asked to determine
why a small two-valve battery set would
not work. The usual instruments, volt-
meter and milliammeter, were applied.
Valves were found to be in order and
the B battery was delivering full voltage.
With the valves removed from the spckets
the full filament voltage reading was in-
dicated across the socket contacts, and
it was assumed that the valves (six-volt
types) were heating normally. This was
not so. The trouble was traced to the
filament switch, which was very dirty
and making a high-resistance contact.
The current taken by the voltmeter was
so small that there was no indicated
effect on the reading taken, but when
the valves were inserted the higher cur-
rent drain caused a voltage drop across
the resistance of the dirty switch, and
the valves thus refused to function.
Cleaning the switch put the set back
into action.
Points to Examine.
There are many places in a radio re-
ceiver where dirt and corrosion will ac-
cumulate, forming high resistance to the
passage of current. Switches of various
kinds are bad offenders, although in
dual-wave receivers the wave-change
switches fitted to-day are of the self-
cleaning type. In to-day’s battery re-
ceiver, the filament rheostat is an un-
known item, but is still to be found in
many of the older sets in use in country
districts. In some cases, filament poten-
tial variation to a screen-grid valve is
used for volume control. If the rheostat
is dirty or faulty, the set is at once in
trouble. A piece of paper should be used
to clean the wire track whereon the mov-
ing contact runs. The moving contact
should also be cleaned on the underside.
There are also in use as volume con-
trols variable high-resistance potentio-
meters in which the moving contact acts
directly upon the wire instead of by
means of the more modern rocking plate.
Such resistances should be cleaned as
stated for a rheostat, but more care
should be taken owing to the danger of
breaking the fine resistance wire.
There are also many sets using the
older type of fixed resistor with clips
mounted on a base, mostly for gridleaks.
The resistance caps and the inside of the
clips should be cleaned with glass paper,
otherwise high resistance may be set up
and the total resistance then in circuit
may upset the whole working of the re-
: ceiver. Battery receivers were once made
with rows of terminals on the rear of a
baseboard, and leads taken from these
to batteries, etc. It is as well to see that
all terminal contacts of this kind are
tight as well as quite clean. One of the
worst sources of trouble is the terminals
on a filament accumulator. Even if
strong spring clips are employed these
are likely to become very dirty in time.
Badly-corroded accumulator terminals
should be first washed in a strong solu-
tion of soda water, then cleaned with
a file and smeared with vaseline. Spade
end terminals should also be well cleaned
and vaselined. These clean contact pre-
cautions are akin to those employed to
keep machinery efficient. A mechanical
device cannot run for long without oil,
and radio apparatus will fail if hign
resistance is introduced through dirt.
D. B. K.
Mike Current Without
Batteries.
Amateurs and experimenters using
Reisz single- or double-button micro-
phones for either transmitters or for
public-address amplifiers are sometimes
faced with the problem of getting the
outfit to work when the polarising bat-
tery is flat. It is then that thoughts
drift towards the elimination of prob-
ably the only battery in an otherwise
all-mains job. The simple hook-up
shown here will dispense with mike cells
for good.
Assuming that a moderately good filter
system is already in use on the amplifier
it is only necessary to tap off at about
100 volts or less and, with a suitable re-
sistance and condenser network, as
shown, feed the microphone. As an
example, take a Reisz calling for a volt-
age. of about 10-12 across the terminals.
If 100 volts is tapped off on the volt-
age divider in the amplifier and fed
through the resistor R of 5000 ohms the
result will be that something like 16
volts will exist across the combined
mike and transformer. If the Reisz has
an average resistance of 500 ohms or
thereabouts and the transformer is a
good match, the voltage across the mike
terminals will be in the region of the re-
quired 10 volts. Provided the resistance
(D.C., not impedance) of the mike and
its transformer is known the requisite
value of R can be easily found. It is
recommended, however, that R be kept
somewhere near 5000 ohms and the volt-
age varied by picking off a higher or
lower voltage on the divider.
The reason for this is obvious when
it is appreciated that the C-R network
constitutes another sub-filter circuit,
playing a very important part in the per-
formance of the microphone. A good
value for C is Bmfd., and it may be of
the standard electrolytic type with (for
a refinement' and to thoroughly by-pass
any stray R.F. in the circuit) a 0.1 paper-
type in parallel. If necessary, a small
filter choke capable of carrying a few
mills, may be inserted in series with the
resistor R. This should be necessary
only when smoothing of the main supply
is particularly poor.
The arrangement may also be used
with success where no matching trans-
former is used and the microphone is
either choke-capacity or resistance-
coupled into the grid circuit of the ampli-
fier. R. H. A.
Service Hints.
When dynamic speakers develop
“tinny” reproduction it is often con-
cluded that the cone has become de-
centred. In a midget speaker recently
handled reproduction was very bad and
volume was very low. Almost too late
(for the speaker) it was found that instead
of being out of centre all that was wrong
with it was a broken lead between the
voice coil and the speaker transformer.
Replacing this did the job.
In search of a new finish for a mains-
filter coil I tried binding it with insu-
lation tape and then doping the tape with
shellac and meth. spirits, plus a small
quantity of resin. After three coats had
dried on the tape it took on a taut and
glossy appearance which was all that
could be wished for.
When making up shunts for multi-
meters it is often hard to get something
to wind them on. Old-fashioned spray-
painted types of gridleaks, whose resis-
tance is usually erratic, can be put to
good use by scraping the paint off the
glass tube and cleaning the end lugs. The
wire of the shunt may then be wound on
and the ends soldered to the lugs or tips,
making a neat and solid job.
When drilling the front of a cabinet
to take the shafts of the various controls
on a chassis the positions may be marked
by using stove polish applied thickly to
the ends of the spindles with a soft rag.
Should one. or more shafts be long and
protrude beyond the line of the others,
the holes for the long ones should be
first drilled, and then the shorter ones
marked and drilled in turn.
Whenever I meet with knobs of the
“push-on” variety I advise the set-owner
to have them removed in favor of set-
screw types. The push-ons have a nasty
habit of sticking and requiring excessive
force to be removed. In this way damage
is likely to be done to volume controls
and condenser dial mechanisms. The set-
or grub-screw patterns grip just as well
for turning and, when needed, come off
much easier.
R. H. A.
The Question Box.
Would an ordinary battery set, a 32-volt
set or a battery set with genemotor replacing B
battery (connected to three cells of the plant)
be most suitable to use with a 32-volt house-
lighting plant? —46l.
Depends mainly on the nature of the set.
If it is to include short-wave reception, com-
plete battery operation is recommended. Fila-
ment supply will be no difficulty, so 6.3-volt
valves should preferably be used. 135 volts of
triple capacity B battery will suffice.
* * * *
(1) Is the distress signal SOS sent as one
group or three letters? (2) In what regulations
is this information to be found? (3) Where
can the regulations governing the issue of com-
mercial and amateur operators’ licenses be
obtained? (4) When do you expect to publish
details of the Tropical Twin and Highgainer
Superhet referred to some time ago ?— 460.
(1) One group. (2) The Admiralty Handbook
and P.M.G. Handbook. (3) Postmaster-
General’s Department, Treasury Gardens, Mel-
bourne. (4) The Tropical Twin will appear
in a few weeks. The Highgainer will be con-
siderably later; it is being redesigned.


VV^VA^vv v^vvV vV^V-^‘ X
%FOOLISH
FORTIES
mix.
U i
s
m
#
msßi
\v
V
5*
1
WL
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise* that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age——to a
slowing down of physical activity—to altered habits or mode of living-
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
dHmorses
1
A\AD£ IN AUSTRALIA
for Simple Constipation
Si«£
1
PILLS
and Attendant Ills.
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until dry.
The cleansing and cooling actions of
this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,. Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
'
Sc
•
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 50/-.)
oW
art o°
X
v<^V °° *> .-
> y ,--' .--• ...
.. *» °l


Endorsed by the
1 Selection Committee !
RICK
m
m
ION!
Detail-Built
RADIO
#
Y///W
m
ggggjjgg
V'-'" '
P
•4
.
i i
: ■-
4 V
' •
ft:
Mm*'*-
1;
l
■
TASMA RADIO has been endorsed for the perfect
reception of cricket broadcasts by a critical Selection
Committee of thousands of Australians.
The realism of Tasma reception enables you to see
the Match, not merely to hear the ball-to-ball descrip-
tion. TASMA is the only radio which “clean bowls”
every interfering sound, because TASMA is the only
radio which has the new and amazing Ferro-Coil.
During the last series of Test Matches, Tasma was
the best selling Radio in Australia, because of its clear
tone, wonderful volume and quick operation. The
Tasma Radio of to-day (no matter which instrument
you select) is a more amazing instrument than ever
before. It has more features; it embodies the very
latest developments in radio science; yet it is within
reach of the purse of every lover of Australian and
international broadcasting.
If you would like to see and hear the big cricket from
the comfort of your own armchair—if you want a clear
ball-to-ball description of every day’s play in the field
of international entertainment, politics, world-events,
music, drama and laughter—buy a TASMA! Tasma
is the radio which makes top-score against allcomers!
There is a Tasma dealer close to your home who will
gladly demonstrate for you any of the models
illustrated in this announcement.
MODEE
‘'360,”
£2l/17/6.
MODEL “360.” Detail-Built 5-valve
, Broadcast Receiver (A.C.).
This is the Receiver which gives a completely
new enjoyment of every programme broadcast
in Australia. Because of its low price it
brings MODERN, faultless radio within reach
of every family. All the wonderful Tasma
features are embodied in this set. The
remarkable Ferro-Coil assembly—the air-
conditioned Transformers—-the Tasma. Band-
spread Dial —Automatic Volume Ctntrol—Con
tinuous Tone Control —and a superb Piano-
finish Cabinet. Price, only £2l/17/6.
(Slightly- Higher Outside N.S.W.)
MODEL “365,” Detail-Built 5-valve
Dual-wave Receiver (A.C.).
_Tasma provides in this wonderful receiver a
new standard of value and performance. In-
cludes Tasma FERRO-COIL Assembly, also
the “Tasma” Bandspread Dial with velvet
tuning drive which shows all broadcast and
short-wave stations clearly marked, completely
variable tone control, reception from 18-50
metres on short wave—heavy duty components
throughout guarantee trouble-free reception
always—doublet aerial terminals —voltage
variation switch and noise suppressor—free
fire and burglary insurance. Price, £29/15/-,
(Slightly Higher Outside N.S.W.)
MODEL “310, ’
£35/10/-.
MODEL “310” —Lawrerfce Cabinet.
’ ii-valve Detail-Built Battery-operated Dual-
wave Receiver: The most amazing Dual-wave
ever offered to country listeners. It has the
exclusive FERRO-COID, a large floodlit aero-
plane type Bandsprea; 1 Dial marked with the
main broadcasting and short-wave stations of
Australasia and the world, Automatic Volume
Control ensuring constant volume, and there
is NO FADING! Fully guaranteed 12 months
and insured free against Fire and Burglary.
Price* including Batteries, £35/10/-.
(Slightly Higher Outside N.SAV.)
i m
Hill
■■hsmtSeaM
£2915/-.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
FLINDERS STREET," MELBOURNE.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
Oliver ,T. Nilseri & Co.,
Ltd., 19 King: William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AT7STRAT/TA: Thomsons, Eta., 074 Hay
Street, Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Fremantle; and
at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bunbury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay Street, rertli.
7s KW ZEALAND; New Zealand Electric Equipment, Etd.,
Wakefield Chambers, AVellingion, New Zealand.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Util.. 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at Gynipie, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackaj.
HAULING DOWNS: Rnsens(e»s;el* Pty., ltd.,
Rnthven Street. Toowoomba.
TASMANIA: Noyes Bros* (Melb.), Litcl., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; Noyes Bros. (Melb.), L<td., 59 George Street. Bauneeston.
