

2^55
-fs-
-2^
35**
-&—r~7^'
sir*
XT
Strong, silent, swiftly menacing, the rushing tides
sweep around the buoy— constant danger of the endless
stream of shipping
Yet its beacon, with never-failing flashes, gives warn-
ing to the keen eyes of anxious mariners; its friendly
beam the message which spells safety.
In the maelstrom of modern business the house of
Hamiltons,, too, stands forth as a reliable never-failing
beacon, guiding investors through the shoals and lighting
their way along the course of secure investment.
Hamiltons offer free of any cost or obligation a
service backed by experts which will ensure that your
investments may be placed with confidence.
The Hamilton principle of offering shareholdings in
ESTABLISHED companies only of proved dividend-
earning capacity, together with a rigid system of critical
examination and financial analysis, ensures results with
security.
Free advice on all investments may be had on
application to —•
HAMILTONS (AUSTRALASIA), LIMITED.
Send for your copy of “PROFlTS”— Posted’ Free.
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
5H
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box; 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
The Diffident Storfa
Vol. 57. —No. 2930.
Wednesday, April 8, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application t'o;
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
StorM Writing
VI at HOME
HOttE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
:
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever* is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any buna fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a twin de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
ART AND A
PROFESSOR
I was listening
the other evening
to a “national”
discussion from
the A. B. C.
stations: the
topic was sport, and one speaker re-
marked that, to his way of thinking, the
ball games had contributed more than
all the arts to the progress of humanity
(or words to that effect). The state-
ment was presumably a considered one,
for, if my memory serves, the gentleman
has made a similar remark on another
public occasion. It reveals the muddle
into which our conception of the nature
and function of art has fallen.
The speaker was a university profes-
sor, member of a Faculty of Arts: if
university professors have come to think
in these terms, then we may assume that
the mass of people have no less muddled
notions. His listeners would probably
have agreed with the professor if he
had developed the obvious inferences of
his statement: that he would be better
employed as a football coach than as a
teacher in a school of humane learning:
that the skill of a Bradman is of greater
ultimate value to humanity than the art
of a Dante (to compare superlative ex-
cellences): and that Mr. Fairfax is doing
nobler work for London than' its Royal
Academy of Music or its university.
I suspect that in Professor Portus the
honest Australian has spoken: all the
same, it is somewhat surprising that he
has found voice in a university, for 1 had
still inclined to believe that the uni-
versities preserved an antique preference
for the things of the mind. It is true
that some American universities are re-
ported to pay their football coaches
more than their professors are paid, but
when one hears such things one thinks
of them as belonging to the American
fantasia: apparently, the fantasies are
taking form and substance among us.
To me, it has always seemed plain
that the arts are concerned with the ex-
pression, in communicable form, of
men’s ideas. A piece of art represents
human experience subdued to a medium
by which it may become another’s ex-
perience: in the arts are preserved what
men have thought and felt in life, what
they have understood of life. The arts
preserve from generation to generation
the accumulating experience and wisdom
of the world. Without them, the past
would be lost to us, and we would in-
deed have no intellectual communica-
tion with our fellows. We should live
darkened, isolated lives at the instinctive
levels; little of all that our race has
thought and loved and suffered would
be of significance. Humanity would
have but an obscured significance for
itself ; it is only because we can, in the
arts, make our experience the object
of new experience that we can survey
ourselves and discover what manner of
being is ours. “The arts are our store-
house of recorded values they record
the most important judgments we possess
as to the value of experience,” as Dr.
I. A. Richards says. They are the
memory of the race ; one can conceive
history without ball games, but can one
conceive history, even the history of the
most primitive races, without the con-
tinuity of mental life preserved in the
arts? If we make the distinction which
Professor Portus evidently makes, if we
limit the word “arts” to the fine arts,
then man’s life without arts would still
be impoverished beyond all reckoning.
In his arts, man shapes and informs
material things, so that these become
indeed the image of his thought. This
is the true creative act. That very
profound critic the author of Genesis
spoke of a Being Who took clay and
shaped it, and breathed into it, and gave
it His own image and likeness; and the
writer (who was certainly not a Day-
tonian Fundamentalist) did not mean
that man was created in the image and
♦ikeness of a corporeal God, but that the
enlivened clay was image and likeness of
an Idea. Man, too, projects his ideas
and makes them sensible in the stones of
Chartres and the pigments of Leonardo
and the words of Shakspeare: this is
what man can do. It is in this that he
is like God.
It can be argued that ball games are
themselves arts: even so it remains
completely incomprehensible to me that
a man who has ever seriously thought
of the character and function of art
should suggest that cricket, football and
the rest have meant more to humanity
than that constant creative activity
in which men express themselves, inter-
pret their lives, communicate with their
fellows, and come to such comprehen-
sion as they may of their world and of
themselves. Wherever man is, there are
his arts. One will frequently find
among them the quaint and diverting
arts which consist in apt hitting or kick-
ing of a ball. But nowhere until here
and now has one ever found these
pleasant exercises elevated in the hier-
archy of human values to the topmost
places.
Anyway, I should like to know what
definition Professor Portus would give
of art.
D. P. M.
Monckton
of Papua
Many writers
have found their
spiritual homes in
Papua, but none
has achieved such
an instantaneous
and spectacular success as C. A. W.
Monckton, dead in London at 63.
A Maorilander by birth (and ashamed
of it), Monckton the magistrate and
Monckton the writer of best-selling remi-
niscences was the complete, relentless,
fearless egotist. He despised “colonials”
—particularly Australians —as intensely
as he admired everything English; he
was never so happy as when sitting in
judgment on the work of brother-officers
he disliked ; but when his respect and
admiration were invoked no man could
have a stouter champion or a sturdier
friend.
1 admit that I approached each of his
books as it came from the press with a
prejudiced mind. How much of the man
was genuine and how much pose, 20
years of intimate acquaintance with his
friends, enemies and contemporaries left
me unable to determine. He collected
all the old stories of the early days—
queer, amusing, macabre—too good to
be allowed to die out, and, by manipu-
lating times and dates, contrived to make
himself the central and most creditable
figure in each of them ; he wrote with
pontifical authority about things of which
he could have had no first-hand know-
ledge whatsoever; he could be mates
with a man and a generation later pub-
lish the most intimate and embarrassing
details of his private life ; he could accept
the hospitality of miners (whom, as a
class, he detested), traders (whom he
despised), missionaries (whom he tol-
erated) and fools he could never suffer
gladly, and make them pathetic figures of
ridicule ; and could rake the dunghills of
ancient scandals with never a thought
for the writhing souls of his victims.
Nevertheless, no single individual did
more to make Papua safe for company
promoters than C. A. W. Monckton.
He pacified the old Northern Division
when the lives of miners and their “boys”
were in constant jeopardy, the camps a
hell of fever and dysentery, and endless
bloody tribal war devastated the ranges.
Ruthless, efficient, making no allowance
for human weakness or the extenuating
circumstance, Monckton was never so
magnificently sure of himself as when
“cleaning up a mess” ; never so much
the “big fella taubada” as when lead-
ing a skeleton, half-starved police patrol
through a no-man’s-land of jungle,
swamp and mountain range, peopled by
treacherous little brown men to whom
murder was a cult, a social pastime;
never so much the symbol of remorse-
less and impersonal justice as when in-
stilling into the unreceptive hearts of
cannibal head-hunters the principles of
white man’s law ; and never so much the
clever “knowall,” swamped in his own
vanity, as when writing his reminiscences.
But there is another angle of approach.
Here and there among the coastal villages
one encounters veterans of the Armed
Constabulary—toothless Kiwai sergeants,
Gosiago corporals, privates from South
Cape—who served under Monckton in
the north. One and all declare emphati-
cally that their old-time leader was a
“number one taubada.” And that, 1
fancy, may be the true measure of
Monckton’s worth.
TAUWARRA.
Too Many
Cooks
The Sydney
thriller by sixteen
writers, Murder
Pie (Angus and
Robertson ; 6s. >,
misses the clear
conciseness of a one-man-evolved mys-
tery, One little plot in the midst of 16
authors —Daniel in the lions’ den might
pity it!
The main idea is good: it provides
an interesting surrounding for its mys-
tery ; brings hot murder into the cool and
calm precincts of a university. Each of
the chapters is well written—surprisingly
so when it is remembered that eacn
author had to take up the story from the
point where his or her predecessor left
off (seven of the chefs are female and
nine male).
Fifteen of the cooks prepared the dish,
rolled and even scalloped the pastry and
provided the meat —so much meat in
the way of suspects that Ethel Turner,
the last cook to take a hand (the final
chapter is merely the gathering of the
threads), suffers an embarrassment of
riches and decides on a holocaust. In
one swoop she incinerates four of the
human blackbirds. A closed motor-car,
a night of eerie storm (she manages her
atmospherics in a spine-curdling way)
and a bottle of poison gas help her in
her direct action.
Murder Pie remains more an exciting
evening’s reading than a cleverly-worked-
out mystery. The' writers are well known,
and it is most interesting to watch their
characteristics come out in the one chap-
ter at the disposal of each. Jeanie
Rankin’s opening is clear and concise,
and she draws her characters in a few
vivid words; Elliott Napier brings a
touch of quiet humor ; Municipal Libra-
rian Bertie takes you along an old-time
tunnel that has its outlet in the Botanic
Gardens; Allan Clunies Ross tries to
balance the ledger of the Coroner’s in-
quest ; Frances Jackson’s contribution
breathes a kindly understanding of
human nature ; in Leslie Victor’s there is
drama, quick action and good dialogue.
At the end of it all an impression is
that for once Mr. Euclid is wrong. In
this book the whole is less than the part.
N. KELLY.
This
Unreason
Appar e n t ly
“Cauboy” (R.P.
18/3/”36) dis-
agrees with my
contention .that
the conditions of
modern life militate against the pro-
duction of literature of the highest
class because he believes (1) that the
greatness of great writers is not gener-
ally recognised by their contemporaries,
(2) that the “cultured few” have some-
times ignored or persecuted great
authors, (3) that the advent of the
Machine Age has not imposed any han-
dicap on great writers, (4) that a writer
cannot attain to greatness unless he lives
in an atmosphere of opposition, (5) that
the minds of the “cultured few” are dis-
torted by their “bad education” and con-
sequently are incapable of sincere appre-
ciation of great art.
The belief that a writer’s greatness is
seldom appreciated by his contemporaries
is a fallacy so ancient, so decrepit and
so irrational that it might well be de-
scribed as senile. There is obviously
only one reason why the greatness of a
writer should not be recognised in his
own lifetime —because his message or his
technique is not in harmony with the
spirit of his age. In that case he will
not receive recognition until the advent
of an age more in harmony with his
genius. But if his intellectual outlook
and his technique are substantially those
of his age he will receive immediate and
unstinted recognition. Chaucer, Shaks-
peare, Spencer, Bacon, Milton, Dryden,
Addison, Johnson, Gibbon, Burke, De
Quincey, Byron, Scott, Coleridge, Words-
worth, Thackeray, Dickens, Tennyson,
Browning, Ruskin and Swinburne were
all honored in their own time, and Shaw,
Wells and Galsworthy are being so
honored to-day. Shelley and Keats—two
of the greatest poets in English—were
comparatively little thought of in their
own short lifetimes because they were
the torchbearers of a literary revolution
which had not yet ousted the formal
poetry of the eighteenth century.
This and political or national hatreds
are the principal reasons why “the cul-
tured few” have occasionally ignored or
persecuted great writers. By “cultured
few” I meant, of course, not only mem-
bers of the wealthier classes who had re-
ceived a liberal education, but persons of
any class who had possessed themselves
by any means whatever of a generous
knowledge of English literature, and who
had the wit and the soul to love that
literature.
The suggestion that I consider that the
mere existence of aeroplanes, motor
vehicles, wireless, vacuum cleaners, elec-
tric grillers and so on imposes a handi-
cap on writers who aspire to greatness
is either a misinterpretation or a mis-
representation of my argument. Such
humble labor-saving devices as vacuum
cleaners and electric grillers help to give
mankind the leisure which is necessary
for the appreciation of good literature.
My argument was that the new leisure
created by machinery is being occupied
by amusements of mechanical origin,
whereas in the past one of the principal
forms of recreation was the reading of
good literature. And it is generally
agreed that the hurry and scurry of the
Machine Age do impose a strain oft
the nervous system which makes mental
concentration during periods of recrea-
tion irksome.
“Cauboy’s” belief that “opposition is
the air the great writer flies in” is an-
other irrational fallacy which contains
one small grain of truth. The fire and
intense mental resistance of the great
writer enable him to overcome such in-
dividual handicaps as poverty, blindness,
bodily afflictions, uncongenial occupa-
tion or defective education. Milton
triumphed over blindness, Keats over
(Continued on page 4A


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
“The Senior Store
fd
"While I Live I '
ll Grow’*
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
FAMOUS
FOR
LOW
PRICES
PUMPING OR PLOUGHING—THESE ARE THE IMPLEMENTS
'FOR THE JOB!
r
r
sr
IV
iyv'
M
V
Jlv
vv
9
V/
I'^
v'
Trs
a/7
I ’ \l t,~7
'£“' i \_-— .
WIARD HILLSIDE STEEL BEAM PLOUGH
Wiard Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with Coulter and
adjustable Clevis. Jointer and Coulter are adjustable and shift auto-
matically when Mouldboard is reversed. Will plough Sin. to Bin. deep,
I Oin. to 1 3in. wide; weight, 1181 b. Price, each £ll/12/6
Extra Cast Shares. Price, each 7/-
Extra Forged Steel Shares. Price, each 36/-
The Beam is of forged steel in two pieces, the
Mouldboard of soft centre steel, highly polished.
The Saddle of Mouldboard is malleable iron,
the Shoe of cast iron, chilled on bottom. Wheel
can be run under beam or at side—the points
are of cast iron—the ironwork is painted green,
striped and varnished.
AH Wiard Chilled Mouldboards are made by a
patent process which gives them extreme
uniform broadness, from which results their
great durability, wearing and cleaning pro-
perties.
All Wiard Steel Mouldboards are made of best
quality hardened steel, no soft cheap steel of
any kind being used.
JOHN DEERE
RED JACKET”
A Sturdy All Steel Plough, with
Mouldboard of hardened, soft centre
steel and Shares of crucible steel.
The Beam is of special steel with
high curve. Body is .one-piece
steel, with steel handles.
Cut, ins.. . 9 10 12
Weight, lb. 89 94 108
Prices . . £B/7/6 £9 £lO/10/6
Single standard land wheels, 12/6
extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc
Coulter, 36/-.
DOUBLE-ACTING FORCE
TANK PUMP
Double-Acting Force Tank
Pump. Cylinder of polished iron;
with poppet valves, which hold the
water. All valves, being under the
hood, are easy to get at. The suc-
tion and discharge are threaded for
2in. pipe. Capacity, 2000 gallons
per hour. Price £5
Cheaper line to take 2in. pipe, 80/-
To take pipe 76/-
f
M
,
v L
u -ji r
■
\ X 7
M
-AK/ v r3 \Vv. sa
O^i'vjP
1 \ N
(is
XZi
.xy
in
' W>
i(
s*^l
r>
a
a
LIFTING PUMP
Douglas Pattern Lifting
Pumps. A useful pump for
farm and domestic purposes.
Strong and well finished.
Nos 2 3 4 6
Pipe, ins.—
U I* H 2
Prices: 25/- 30/- 32/9 59/-
GEORGE
ROBOT
George Robot, the
electro - mechanical
man, is now making
his final appearance
in Sydney before
returning to Europe.
See the electro-
mechanical man,
whose exclusive pre-
sentation ends on
April 16.
COUNTRY
VISITORS to Sydney
are specially invited
to see this wonder of
the age. Everybody
is cordially invited.
No charge.
Performances daily
at 1 1 a.m., 12 noon,
1.30 p.m., 3 p.m.
and 4 p.m.
Extra Session Friday
night, 7 o’clock.
Saturday, 10.30 a.m.
and 1 1.30 a.m.
O George Robot —
Second Floor.
fd
STEEL EARTH SCOOPS
Round Back Solid Steel Earth Scoops.
Improved by the Scraper being made
longer and deeper than usual, so,
while it carries more earth, it runs
much easier and has more wearing
surface.
No. 3, 3 cubic feet; net Weight, 80
pounds. Price 69/6
No. 2, 5 cubic feet; net weight, 97
pounds. Price 71/6
No. I, 7 cubic feet; net weight, 103
pounds. Price 82/6
No. 0, 10 cubic feet; net weight, 135
pounds. Price . 135/-
One of the wonderful attrac-
tions at the Royal Agricultural
Show will be Anthony Horderns’
Pavilion near the main en-
trance. Beautiful merchandise,
much of which is made in
Anthony Horderns’ own fac-
tories, will be on display. Make
sure you inspect this roomy
pavilion.
SEMI-ROTARY PUMP—SPEEDY, SAFE,
SURE
Semi-Rotary Pumps. Will
minute, as described below.
Numbers 0
Gallons 3
Prices —Iron .... 257-
Brass . . . 507-
Numbers
Lift Gallons
Prices—lron
lift number of gallons per
• Agricultural—Fourth Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.


Sf\
I
m
m
B
m
AN IDEAL PRESENT FOR A FRIEND
AND A MOST INTERESTING AND
EDUCATIONAL BOOK FOR CHILDREN.
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture repro-
duced by Photo-lithographic Printing, together
with informative paragraphs concerning the
subjects dealt with.
TWENTY-FOUR PAGES
PRICE
(Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
'
l '»
'w J I
mm
tuberculosis. But few writers have had
such adamantine strength of will and in-
tellect as to enable them to triumph over
the stupendous opposition of the spirit
of a hostile age. .Sometimes a zeal for re-
form may steel the writer to withstand
that opposition, to suffer contemptuously
the affronts, the slights, the rancorous
criticism which will be his lot. But most
great writers, in common with the rest
of mankind, love the approbation of
their fellows.
“Cauboy’s” final contention that the
most serious handicap of the great
writer may be “his own bad education”
rests on the assumption that the mind of
a person who receives a liberal education
must be distorted by the defects of that
education, and must be doubly instilled
with the prejudices of his class. But a
writer who lacked the resiliency to with-
stand these forces would have few claims
to greatness, and, generally speaking, the
minds of the people who sincerely love
great literature rise above the unreason
of class prejudice. A writer who pos-
sesses the germs of greatness will assimi-
late what is good or useful in his educa-
tion and environment and reject what is
bad, whereas the mediocrity fails to do
either.
In conclusion, allow me to declare that
I am neither an intellectual Pharisee nor
a pessimist. I rejoice at the passing of
the old order, even the decline of litera-
ture, because I believe that we are mov-
ing toward a better order. It is reasonable
to suppose that the further enslavement
of the machine, that the continued evolu-
tion of the capitalist system in the direc-
tion in which it has been evolving during
the last 50 years, and that closer and
saner co-operation between nations will
result in a further increase in the periods
of leisure and a further improvement in
the conditions of living of the peoples of
the world. And the steady advance of
national education is rapidly tending
toward a state in which the “educated
many” will be the “cultured many.” At
present the world has just enough leisure
to fill with motor-car rides, wireless
broadcasts, talkies and so on —all excel-
lent forms of amusement in themselves.
In the future, as the wave of social and
economic evolution surges on, I believe
that the world will have enough time
and enough education for the apprecia-
tion of great literature. When that time
comes literature will rise as high as,
perhaps far above, those noble eminences
which it reached in the past.
TOOWONG.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
General Smuts Sarah Gertrude Millin
The League of Nations and the Rule of Law .. Sir Alfred Zimmern
The Virgin of Skalholt Gudmundur Kamban
A WOMAN, Sarah Gertrude Millin,
n fi as tackled the job of writing the
biography of Jan Christian Smuts, while
that hero of many allegiances is still
living and liable at any moment to pierce
the clouds of muddled international
tx • ... ,
affairs with some shaft or other of
realistic thinking. The work, General
Smuts (Faber and Faber, from Angus
and Robertson ; 215.), is planned for
completion in two vols.: the first demon-
strafes that of, men worth writing bio-
graphics about Smuts is one of the most
attractive subjects alive ; a sheer gift from
the gods. Born a British subject, he was
destined (as Mrs. Millin summarises)
. , ■ _ . . .
to become a Boer general and make peace
with England; to become a British general
and make peace with Germany; to work
for the fusion of South Africa and the
fusion of those who had been enemies;
to help bring freedom to Ireland; to define
the British Commonwealth; to plan with
Wilson the League of Nations and to
found a system of philosophy....
r- . , , ~ 4 , ‘ x , ,
Entangled with that extremely bare out-
line, enough events sufficient conflict,
achievement, action, change, struggle and,
conditioning it all tremendous force and
high singularity of character to ensure
any sort of biography of this great South
African being readable for its material
a!one. In various crises in his lifetime
Smuts has been several times shot at
at point-blank range and come near to
violent death on sundry other occa-
sions as well : these incidents themselves
enliven the biography with excitements
enough to satisfy an addict of Wild-
Westers. Instance the vivid action
packed into the brief paragraph which
concludes the account of Smuts’s attempt
to address the striking Joburghers (Smuts
has been pelted with bricks and rotten
eggs, howled down and has been once
on the ground under the mob in fighting
his way back to his car);
At the car three shots were fired at
Smuts. A miner, who was crushed between
Smuts and some rioters, received a blow
f^ uts f [° m , a ? ir on-loaded
pick-handle, and was knocked unconscious
A number of other people were injured!
Smuts came away unhurt. He was calm
again - “ You call this social?” he said,
lt sounds like the comment that Sydney
Smith or Sheridan or some other famous
?fight have made; but, though Mrs.
asserts that “Smuts has a sense
j 1 ™ mor out no sense of fun,” she pro-
-s*° evid n ence ' 0 support the first
contention. On the contrary, there is
much to support the idea that Smuts is
extra u TT .
°J U hun ? or - BlS e
meeting with Bernard Shaw is one of
many things giving support to this idea:
They did not establish community”;
the reason for this: “Mr Shaw was
most of the time explaining why every
schoolptrl of 1A r J y
S°°- 8 r * l6 Bu-t 0 8 u- t0 Chat ~
terley s Lover-—a subject on which Smuts
had no conversation.” Of course the
truth might well be an absence of the
glorious attribute in Smuts’s biographer
This, in its turn, might seem to be sup-
ported by another assertion of Mrs
Millin’s touching on her hero’s humor •’
“He gets the loveliest, most delicate en-
joyment out of those diplomatic adven-
tures which are the salt of life to him ”
Which, in its turn also, borders unconi-
fortably upon gush, seeming to dress
Jan Christian in georgette of a nale
lavender tint. Certainly a man could
hardly have written that sentence, nor
some others that help to produce a femi-
nine air which, not at all unpleasinglv
pervades the work. On the other hand no
man could have drawn out the same fine
complex subtleties which Mrs Millin dis-
covers in an apparently direct and simply
motivated character. This analysis, pecu-
liarly feminine and, only partly on that
account, extremely interesting, informs
every page of the work, lifting it from
the common run of merely factual bio-
graphies to the rare class of those that
get into the lists of pure creative effort.
This first vol. traces out the life of Smuts
from birth, through schooling, early law
and journalism, soldiering in the Boer
War, the creating and the fusing of the
Union of South Africa, the conflict with
industrial revolutionaries, on to the
Great War, the war for German East
Africa, closing with Smuts taking his
place in the British War Cabinet, along
with Milner, whom he, and Mrs. Millin
also, brands the real author of the Boer
War. It is a notable story—one of the
most vivid ever lived —and Mrs. Millin’s
fine sense for the personally picturesque
and the dramatic makes of it a glorious
narrative.
Sir Alfred Zimmern, author of The
League of Nations and the Rule of Law :
1918-1935 (Macmillan ; Angus and Rob-
ertson ; 225.), is neither League zealot
nor antagonist. He is Professor of Inter-
national Relations at Oxford, and his
book is a calm account and analysis of
a large topic. Two of these columns
at least would be needed to fairly sum-
marise it: enough, then, to say that Sir
Alfred, with the absolute clarity of his
easy, positively foolproof prose, hands
on to all interested in international re-
lations the clearest and in other respects
the finest exposition of the origins, de-
velopment and activity of the League of
Nations that has so far been written.
Students cannot afford to miss it, and
the layman will find it simple to follow
and widely informative and instructive.
■ In the tradition of Knut Hamsun,
though lacking quite his breadth, The
Virgin of Skalholt: Gudmundur Kamban
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson; 9s. 6d.),
is a sincere piece of literature ; a beauti-
ful and in its high passages very moving
novel with a picturesque setting in Ice-
land of a couple of centuries ago. It
has none of the brutality of many novels
set in primitive surroundings in those
northern parts of the world. It is romance
made alive by unfailing realism in the
treatment. The characters are colorful;
interesting people who are worth read-
ing about, and at the same time living
human beings ; and the story, as a whole,
is well managed, though the natural
tendency of the author—who is a pro-
fessor and a distinguished historian
—to share his historical erudition with
the reader slows action in places. Still,
it is interesting and curious history that
he deals in, almost wholly of a social
nature.
-4
Jungle Lindsay (Sampson Low; 12s.
6d. net). After a long life which started
in a Scottish herring-boat, Hector Lind-
say records some of his more exciting
adventures, including life with a circus
whose big top took fire during a perfor-
mance in England; more circus in
America, with love for the snake lady
and a jealous tamer’s lions let loose;
shipwreck on the way to Australia;
jungle adventures in Africa; terms in
American and French gaols; and such
jobs meanwhile as sharpening the guil-
lotine for a French execution and serv-
ing as an ordinary member of a Chinese
crew. More meaty than most things of
the kind.
/ Walked by Night (Ivor Nicholson
and Watson ; 15s. net). As the title-page
elaborates: “The Life and History of
the King of the Norfolk Poachers,
written by Himself, edited by Lilias
Rider Haggard, illustrated by Edward
Seago.” The philosophical old scamp
recording his life story with a racy humor
in broad English, the very look of which
has the sound of earthy dialect; the
daughter of Rider Haggard adding ex-
pert footnotes that are a small treasury
of out-of-the-way folklore ; and the artist
who specialises in circus-life and other
English vagabondage contributing a fine
color frontispiece portrait of the old
poacher and many other illustrations—
among them this trio, helped by the pub-
lishers’ excellent production, make a
book as pleasing to look at as its main
contents are richly enjoyable to read.
Pocket Guide to Better Golf: Alex. I.
Morrison (Angus and Robertson; 2s.
9d.), reminds the writer of an engineer
acquaintance who, after several attempts
to master his coach’s instruction regard-
ing the swing, constructed a working
model of the process—a manikin that
performed the perfect drive on the turn
of a handle. He demonstrated to his own
satisfaction that 49 movements of joints
were involved, most' of them extremely
awkward, and shortly afterwards for-
sook golf in favor of bowls. Mr. Morri-
son, with copious diagrams, some of
them anatomical, succeeds in making the
motions clear, and also manages to con-
vey the impression that the processes in-
volved are not so unnatural and difficult
as the engineer supposed. Every stroke
is demonstrated, and the style of the
accompanying letterpress is terse and
lucid.
Psychology and the Choir-Trainer:
C. Henry Phillips (Dent; 55.). Puts into
commonsense English and applies to
severely practical ends the discoveries of
the psychologists. Most of the advice
thus scientifically based seems to have
been anticipated unconsciously by many
very successful teachers of music and
other subjects; but it is none the less
useful to have the principles of maintain-
ing discipline and conserving interest
logically explained. In addition, Mr.
Phillips, who has had long experience
as a music-tutor, is prolific in hints as
to manner in which difficulties of instruc-
tion may be overcome. This commen-
tator wishes that the choir-masters he
suffered under in youth had had the
benefit of such wise guidance.
Spies in the Web: Michael Annesley
(Harrap; 7s. 6d.). Excellent character-
isation and convincing atmosphere in
this follow-on of the author’s Room 14.
The brisk action takes place around
Memel, and the story doesn’t unduly
strain credulity, despite many tense situa-
tions. The author seems unwilling to kill
off the arch-villain, so it can be taken as
certain that that gentleman will arise yet
again to villainise through a third novel.
Careers for Boys and Girls: G. R.
Giles, B.Sc., Dip. Ed. (Robertson and
Mullens ; 35.). This work by the Voca-
tional Guidance Officer of the Vic. Edu-
cation Department summarises the nature
and requirements of various employ-
ments, and gives some new and sound
advice under such headings as “How to
Get a Job,” “Making Your Letter
Effective,” “Preparing for the Interview”
and “Meeting the Employer.” A con-
siderable section of the information (rates
of payment, conditions of work, etc.)
deals with Victorian conditions exclu-
sively, but these do not differ importantly
from those in other States. The tips on
application writing are alone worth the
price of the book.


m
m,
M
m
M
*
1
asm
ss
es
-^s
till
11l
111
m
m
'*o.
Wi
r l
gg
i
1
*s
rjfc&iS
*•»!
a#:
&
as
sjjlsg
feks
7i?
i
!•«
art
v*
■
’M
1
ri
' H
//'
''•Kr«C •«* . • ••. • 'VS^.7<'
.7
3£«s!
A *•
In the true spirit
of comradeship—
A helping hand indeed is his that pours
you a friendly measure of Johnnie
Walker. For this fine spirit has true
Highland flavour, wonderfully mellow
and so unusually smooth. . Easy to buy;
easy to open; and certainly the easiest
of all to drink!
Born 1820 —
Still Going Strong!
ms
JOffIUHE WKhKER
SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW.4I.FP.


ROYAL
PURPLE-
PARA
BMn
wm
m
, : dm
■ : dd
m
m.
■
m
n
BBSS
m
m
*
a
/
a
H
ft • "
■
H
1
i
HI
:
11
a
m
N
HE
Hi
■
m
■
m
m
■ ■
as
■
■
an
■
r
■
m
ifi
»<5
I
■
♦*i
4
■I
Sni
in
i
■
■
' *1
n i
N;
%
m
■’
■V:
1
I
m
m
m
i m
m
m
' . * MB MS#
'-, iSil <f *
V
r
s
- , •:■*.. -; •>*» ~ •* ..
- r -
K - JB
»3*a|
* '
■■
**• . »'V*
ii*
I
I I
■ «r ,-
: «
i
■ ■ ■ .4H|
':
. .': .;
HH
an
M^i
,
* ••
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars .
Jfffhtt c Wfris cff / ia’ie mellmamMmullmujmt


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2930.
April 8, 1936.
DOUBLE-HEAD PUZZLE.
The temple of Janus was open during war and closed during peace.”
PEACE; “May I stay or must I bolt?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings. 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
GERMANY’S HUGE “YES.”
By the most overwhelming majority vote ever cast
by a country, Germany has endorsed the military occu-
pation of the Rhineland, and along with it Herr
Hitler’s general policy in international relations. Out
of a total electorate of 45,408,191 there were
44,389,140 for Hitler and 542,898 against, with 476,153
abstaining from voting. Not to accept that as the
resolute answer of an entire people to a question
posed by the world is a proceeding of which only
a fool could be guilty ; and in the circumstances he
would be a dangerous fool.
Whoever that fool may be, there is some hearten-
ing evidence to indicate that he is not going to be
J. Bull. Mendacious writers have made their usual
attempts to sway public opinion against Germany, but
have signally failed. For once people—possibly
revolted by now with the poison stuff pumped into
them for months —decline to be inflamed and hot for
war. Even such action as that of the Dean of St.
Paul’s praying for Hitler as one “called upon to make
momentous decisions” has significance. Lloyd
George’s plagiarism of Castlereagh in protest against
the Anglo-French Army discussions —“A military pact
is the shortest cut I know to the ghastly mechanical
carnage of modern war” —further indicated how the
wind was shifting, and towards the middle of last
week a brief cable announced that “British public
sympathy is veering strongly towards the Germans.”
There is a clear reason for this. British public
opinion—predominately fair in matters that it can
see and understand —realises both that Hitler speaks
for the whole German people and that these people
have a case in which they unswervingly believe. “We
want peace with France,” Hitler has said for them.
We do not interfere in the internal politics of
other nations, and they must respect ours. We shall
never agree to the division of the nations by the
Versailles Treaty into good and bad, nor shall we let
ourselves be treated as negro slaves. The populace
of the Rhineland has had to live under the threat of
foreign guns and trench mortars. It is not possible to
exclude 65,000,000 people from the community of
nations. Conditions leading to fear and hatred must
give way to free decision.
And, backing all this, an offer of an arrangement for
25 years of peace and co-operation in reducing arma-
ments.
This case for Germany, brought to a head by
the encirclement treaty between France and the Soviet,
British people generally incline to accept. If they
have been slow to realise that there has been such
a case —inclining to treat Hitler, before the vote, as a
ranting hysteric—the amount of anti-Hitler propa-
ganda published in Britain in the last ten years is
mainly responsible. It has been on a greater scale
than anything of the kind directed against anybody
else, not even excluding Mussolini. One big London
publishing house alone has issued hundreds of anti-
Hitler books which must have poisoned the minds
of millions. Side by side with it has gone a per-
sistent pro-Soviet deluge of propaganda.
Against this sort of thing there has prevailed
ever since the war an enhanced respect for Germans
among British people everywhere, and among none
more strongly than those who actually fought in the
war. To these it was not Hitler but France, shrieking
for sanctions, and Edenish babble about sending a
force of British and Italian troops “to police the
Rhineland” that seemed hysterical—deadly, danger-
ously so.
The most valuable thing about Hitler’s action —
now that the vote has confirmed it—-is that it has fused
all such opinion, with much less-well-informed opinion
besides, into an increasingly active influence against
the attempts to entangle Britain inescapably in the net
of alliances in which France seeks to find security
and superiority together. There is still danger enough
in Britain’s entanglement with that greatest of all
shibboleths collective security ; but even here there
is ground for a little hope in returning sanity in
Britain’s having fixed the place of conferences as far
as possible from Geneva and having firmly kept it
there—in London. There, if the realism that remains
is very little, it is at least more than could be ever
possible at the revivalist place of worship, with its
babel of discordant and contending worshippers.
It is tough luck for the League to lose the pub-
licity upon which it largely subsists. But it is encour-
aging that Britain —doubtless profited by the shocking
bungling and near-disastrous consequences of Geneva’s
handling of the Abyssinian business —gives even some
faint signs of having understood throughout that it
has been no fanatical Hitler speaking and acting in
reply to France’s alliance with the Soviet, which has
persistently striven to stir up Red revolution in Ger-
many, but the whole German people doing so ; a
spontaneous manifestation of the will of a people too
long unnaturally oppressed, flouted, frustrated, denied
the freedom even to guard their frontiers, and exas-
perated to resolution at last.
If the signs are right, Britain stands to-day more
firmly on the safe ground under its own feet than it has
done for a year, possibly even since the war. There
is nothing more certain than that the road British
foreign policy had been on led straight to the skull-
heap. If Hitler, by bringing international relations
down from the clouds of Genevan make-believe to
the levels of reality, has really stopped that fool’s
progress, he has done a considerable thing for Britain
(and ourselves), for world peace and for mankind, in
addition to what he has done for Germany. For
there are few things more patent than that the burden
of supporting world peace is not on the fancy fabric
of Geneva, but on the tough shoulders of John Bull,
standing on the ground that is as true to-day as when
Canning laid it down: “Our policy has always been
not to interfere except in great emergencies, and
then with commanding force.”
The signs that John Bull’s traditional solid good
sense has at least partly returned may be only faint,
but such as they are they deserve to be celebrated
wherever there are men who believe in John Bull, and
who would be with him even to the skull-heap.
MR. DASH LISTENS-IN.
An active and powerful anti-Labor influence has
developed in Queensland in the unexpected person
of Mr. Dash, the Minister “for” Transport. At a
protest meeting held in the Brisbane City Hall 14
speakers, representing commercial and transport
interests from over practically all of south Queens-
land, reviewed the Transport Acts and Regulations
and explained their effects. The meeting was con-
ducted on a strictly non-party basis. A resolution
urging upon the Government the necessity for alter-
ing the present system of transport control and
requesting equitable treatment of all interests was
passed unanimously; and there were 2000 people in
the hall.
A week before the meeting Mr. Dash had stated
that he would not in any circumstances recommend
his Government to cause inquiry to be made into the
transport system. From the viewpoint of political
expediency such prejudgment was perhaps wise, for
the facts and arguments brought out by the speakers
constitute an unanswerable case.
It was pointed out that transport must serve in-
dustry, not industry transport; and that the solution
of the railway problem lay in improving railway
methods, not in restricting other forms of transport.
It was unfair to the Commissioner of Railways, the
representative of £60,000,000 of public capital in-
vested in railways, to place him in the position of chief
executioner of road transport when he was in reality
its chief competitor. The board’s prohibitive “fees”
—one speaker related how his mulctings for a service
truck had been suddenly raised from £6B to £llB6
per annum —led directly to overloading and overdriv-
ing by men whose only means of living was by road
transport.
It was pointed out that men who had been serving
particular districts for half their lifetimes had been
forced off the roads, although their routes did not
parallel or compete with railways. Others, with no
means of livelihood except their carrying busi-
nesses, had been refused registration in favor
of non-residents who had other resources. Farmers
who formerly had landed young stock at the
Brisbane saleyards by their own trucks in three
hours at a cost of £1 were now forced to
send them by rail, at a cost of over £3 and a time-
waste of 26 hours. In six years Queensland motor
interests had paid £7,577,786 in taxation, exclusive
of customs duties; in the same period only £6,766,959
had been spent on roads in Queensland. No road-
transporter had ever been able to plead his case before
the Transport Board, for the good reason that the
board never met, but deputed its powers to subordi-
nates. And a vast amount more, all documented and
supported by specific cases.
Two days later Mr. Dash replied that he had
listened-in to the speeches, and that they were entirely
political and sponsored by truck-selling and oil
interests. Three of the speakers, said the Minister
“for” Transport, were defeated anti-Labor candidates,
and he could not remember any of the others as
having taken the platform to support a Labor candi-
date. In effect, it was merely another anti-Labor
political demonstration.
This statement by a responsible Minister brings
the whole matter of transport control in Queens-
land to a clear and definite issue between the public
interest and the Labor party. It is no longer a ques-
tion of contending against bureaucratic obstinacy and
of endeavoring to secure correction of a legislative
error, but a question of fighting the party in power
until it ceases to deny the right of the Queensland
people to swift and efficient road transport, fairly
regulated and taxed.
In Victoria, while this Minister “for” Transport was
performing, the U.A.P. pledged itself to “recognition
of the principle of freedom of passenger and freight
road services,” with “payment of reasonable taxation
through the medium of registration of depots” and
due regard for “the rights of existing licensed opera-
tors” and for the safety of their employees and the
public. And in Victoria, as was mentioned at the
Brisbane meeting, an operator can plead his case
before a board which is not all Government em-
ployees, and has a right of appeal to the Minister.
THE DIFFIDENT STORK.
[The author of this very interesting contribution is the
editor of the “Woman’s Mirror.” The Bulletin article
mentioned was, in fact, written by a doctor; that gentle-
man will have the right of reply.]
Experience in running a paper which endeavors to
give women help in the more intimate problems of
sex and maternity indicates that in order to find the
cause of Australia’s declining birth-rate it will be
necessary to dig deeper than do Mr. W. M. Hughes,
the Jubilee Memorial propagandists and even The
Bulletin, as it expresses itself in “Contraceptive
Politics” (18/3/’36): —■
People cannot stand the expense of rearing
families Natural urge to parenthood among most
married couples to-day is far less potent than the
equally natural urge to keep on living in reasonable
comfort Mr. Hughes says contraceptive literature
is largely responsible.
Inquiries of our mothercraft-advice section show that,
though women do seek knowledge and means to avoid
maternity, far more are distressed that they cannot
conceive, cannot “carry”,, children to delivery, and
cannot bring living children into the world. These
are not only women, long-married yet unfruitful,
who write in desperation, and women who marry in
the later years when child-bearing is less common,
but women in their twenties, married from two to
seven years.
So many were such appeals that we asked our
chief mothercraft adviser —who is at the same time a
doctor with Australian obstetric experience from Mel-
bourne to Rabaul, the mother of a family in these
days rated large, and a State public official with child-
welfare her special care —to shelve for a while ante-
and post-natal counsel and to go back to first prin-
ciples of parentage; How to have babies.
The result was an article in the “Woman’s Mirror”
of February 11, entitled “Factors in Fertility,” which
excited remarkable interest. It was acclaimed by the
weekly vote of readers the paper conducts as the best
item in the issue, and drew inquiries from as far
away as Fiji.
In this “Mother, M.D.,” offered the theory that
decline of the birth-rate was a sign of the softer, city-
obsessed times. She wrote:
The peak and decline of every civilisation is marked
by a lowered birth-rate, especially among the city
population... .To-day city populations are kept up and
increased only by the people who come in from the
country... .We are rather like animals in captivity,
whose failure to reproduce is notorious —only our cages
are city streets Our diet, too, suffers in much the
same way as that of domesticated animals: we are
given over-sophisticated foods from which the fertility
vitamins have been destroyed.
Dr. Alexis Carrel in his Man, the Unknown, reviewed
in B. 1 /4/’36, is of much the same mind. His thesis
is that so-called progress has been only to a slightly
higher but definite mediocrity in which men and
women are upon a level of softness, contrasting with
the vigor and virility of a harder age. Touching on
the subject of paternity, Dr. Carrel notes that the
laborer male, the man who in his daily toil puts almost
no strain on his mind, is more willing and better able
to procreate his kind than the mental worker who
has drained body to strengthen mind. Higher mental
stimulus —through education —means lower physical:
fewer children.
In the “Woman’s Mirror” “Mother, M.D.,” did
not only theorise. She suggested remedies, chiefly of
diet and assimilation of vitamin E, the fertility vitamin.
Particularising vitamin E-containing substances,
she said that experiments with animals, from mice to
cows, had proved that miscarriage could be checked
and fertility encouraged (even created) by means of
the rich-in-vitamin E wheat-germ oil, and recom-
mended this to worried spouses.
The outcome was astonishing. Letters poured
into the “Woman’s Mirror” inquiring about and ask-
ing for wheat-germ oil. Hundreds of married people,
seeing here a long-sought salvation, wanted the oil.
No birth-control there! Instead, a very revealing
pathos.
Wheat-germ oil at time of writing is not avail-
able in quantities enough. There is, however, a maize-
germ oil which is an ordinary market commodity and
has a fertility potency one-third that of wheat. This
is the present stopgap.
Pleas for aid do not come only from the married
who desire families. We are trying—these subjects
are not easy to treat in a popular magazine of general
circulation —to find formulas to answer engaged girls
who want to prepare themselves for maternity in the
year before marriage so that they may not fail in
the function they regard as an essential part of matri-
mony ; and married women who, having decided that
they want children, are eager to know at what age
(twenties or thirties) they should be mothers to assure
that the children be the best possible.
It looks as though there was much more Can’t
than Won’t about the empty cradle. Looking after
the new citizen after he is conceived, seeing him into
life, and saving the mother after he is born are all
excellent; but “Woman’s Mirror” mothercraft-letter
files invite Mr. Hughes and his supporters to make
research a little farther back in the chain of life.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chiefly One-way Traffic.
For the first seven months of the current financial
year Australian imports from the U.S.A. were valued
at £7,800,000 sterling and Australian exports to the
U.S.A. at £3,200,000. As the meeting of overseas
commitments, not only in London but in New York,
is again becoming a problem, the Australian Govern-
ment has been forced to consider the question of
restricting imports from the U.S.A., and has appointed
a subcommittee to make the necessary inquiries and
report.
The following table shows that our trade with
our American friends has largely been one-way
traffic:
Imports Exports Adverse
from U.S.A. to U.S.A. Balance.
1924- ... £38,728,814 £9,153,279 £29,575,535
1925- .. 37,234,257 12,953,877 24,280,380
1926- .. 41,394,277 18,579,094 22,815,183
1927- .. 35,005,736 8,954,823 26,050,913
1928- .. 35,308,345 5,831,794 29,476,551
1929- .. '30,316,208 5,233,772 25,082,436
1930- .. 11,400,058 2,931,157 8,468,901
1931- .. 7,037,751 4,096,410 2,941,341
1932- .. 8,084,160 3,538,659 4,545,501
1933- .. 7,839,250 2,512,431 5,326,819
1934- .. 11,041,660 2,757,935 8,283,725
Actually the adverse balances have been greater since
1930 than the figures quoted, which are taken from
the “Overseas Trade Bulletin,” because in that publica-
tion imports are given in British currency and exports
in Australian.
In effect, Australia has been one of America’s
most consistent customers. But no country has
received less consideration from the Washington
authorities controlling overseas commercial rela-
tions. When Prohibition was abolished it was
hoped and expected that the U.S.A. would be-
come a large buyer of Australian wines and
spirits. Actually in the allotment of wine quotas Aus-
tralia was placed a long way below Spain and
Portugal, which do not buy from America a fraction
of what Australia buys. So insignificant have been
American purchases of our wines that in the “Over-
seas Trade Bulletin” these are lumped together with
a mass of other minor items.
Restriction of imports from any one country is
a very delicate matter. Clumsily handled it would
establish a precedent wjiich might be used to Aus-
tralia’s disadvantage. Only necessity can justify it,
and, if some politicians at Canberra restrain their
impatience and others at Washington exhibit the
generous spirit so often displayed by the American
nation, that point need not be reached,
*
Divide and Be Ruled.
In evident anticipation of next year’s Federal cam-
paign, Labor has been busy promoting peace among its
faction-fighters. On the other side there is a U.A.P.-
U.C.P. alliance which commands Support from both
parties in N. S. Wales, Westralia and South Australia,
though there are doubts about the adhesion of some
of the Agrarians in Victoria. The outcome of the
coming battle will depend largely upon the organisa-
tion of intra-State forces. It is probable that the
key State of the campaign will be Queensland.
Queensland had a so-called Country Progressive
National party which fell with the Moore Govern-
ment. The party was rent with jealousies and dissen-
sion from the day it came into power ; its leader could
not control either its ambitious, inexperienced young-
sters or even such political oddities as a Minister
of Transport who advocated horseback riding as the
best means for getting about the country. Against
so astute a Labor leader as Forgan Smith, it failed,
as an Opposition, to put up even a bare pretence of
being a brake on the Labor machine.
To-day the C.P.N. is dead from sheer lack of
ability or energy, dead of its own defeatist spirit of
apathy. Realisation of this has led to the resusci-
tation of the Country party. Its fundamental policy
being of necessity centred upon purely rural interests,
the Country party has no chance of ever gaining an
elected Parliamentary majority. There remains the
pious hope that, freed from the dragging corpse of
the C.P.N., it may bring out someone capable of
breathing fresh life into the body, whilst convincing
his own forces that, acting alone, they are not even
a forlorn hope.
Dying as it was, the C.P.N. furnished practically
the whole Opposition in the present House from
those of its members who were returned by country
electorates. Resurrected, and in sincere co-operation
with a really active Country party, it might prove
a potent force in State and Federal politics alike.
For Queensland’s own sake, as well as for that
of Australia, it is sincerely to be hoped that some
such miracle may come about. A third term of office
by a party which is borrowing and taxing to the limit,
and which seems bent on putting out of existence
every form of land transport other than its own
union-ridden and archaic railways, is no thrilling pros-
pect for State or Commonwealth.
♦ ■ —
Too Many Judgments.
The Sodeman appeal case draws pointed attention to
the Australian High Court’s method of delivering its
judgments.
Convicted of murder, and under sentence of
death, Sodeman applied to the High Court for special
leave to appeal from a decision of the State Court
of Criminal Appeal on the ground that the trial
Judge had wrongly admitted evidence as to other kill-
ings, and had misdirected the jury on the issue of
insanity.
The Chief Justice delivered a judgment uphold-
ing the trial Judge. Justice Starke concurred. Justice
Dixon said that “the trial Judge’s charge to the jury
did not properly submit the matters upon which the
case that the prisoner was insane depended.” Justice
Evatt held that there had been “a miscarriage of jus-
tice: the prisoner’s defence of insanity was not suffi-
ciently or accurately presented by the trial Judge.”
Two against two, but, as is the rule in these cases,
the Chief Justice’s view prevailed; special leave to
appeal was refused.
State Ministers were then at Bendigo, and after
a Cabinet meeting held that day Premier Dunstan
announced that “the position had not altered.” This
was taken to mean that Sodeman would be executed
on April 6, as had been arranged. Subsequently the
execution was postponed for 28 days to admit of
the condemned man’s applying to the Privy Council,
in forma pauperis, for special leave to appeal.
An appeal as of right to the King-in-Council
exists in cases where the amount involved is not less
than £5OO. In other cases the Privy Council can grant
special leave, subject to certain rules. These rules
were stated recently by the Lord High Chancellor:
Prima facie, the decision of the High Court is
final. To justify the granting of special leave there
must be a case involving some difficult question of law
or affecting a matter of great public importance.
In methods of delivering judgments Privy Council
and High Court differ materially. Privy Council deci-
sions are seldom as long as those delivered by the
High Court; they are always unanimous and, most
important of all, they are delivered by the presiding
Judge; other members of the Court simply concur.
In the High Court it is more the rule than the excep-
tion for more than one of the Judges to deliver a
separate judgment.
In one case A, B and C give the majority decision,
which is then the law. D and E dissent, delivering
separate judgments. In the next case, perhaps,
B, C and D agree, and their decision is law. A and
E dissent, and perhaps furnish very powerful reasons
to support their conclusion. This multiplicity of
judgments leads to confusion in the lay mind and
breeds appeals to the Privy Council.
The Victorian Government is to be sympathised
with in the unhappy position in which it has been
placed. Surely the lesson is that the High Court
should adopt the simple and effective procedure of the
Privy Council.
Pleasures in Palaces.
N. S. Wales legislators are indignant because, having a
Parliament House complete with dining-room,
billiard-room, bar, library and playground, plus rest-
rooms and other club accommodation, the Govern-
ment will spend only £13,000 on renovating the place.
O’Regan, M.L.C., mentions that upon entering
the edifice “one expects to find a palace,” but it is
“only a kitchen.” It is the usual sort of kitchen to be
seen in any home, with well-spaced, leather-covered
benches, free and costly notepaper supplied ad lib.,
a star-spangled ceiling and soft-footed minions. Mr.
O’Regan looks with envy on S. Australia, which, in-
spired by a gift from a private citizen, has subsidised
it £4 to £1 to provide a palace “which will cost
£500,000.” t ~
Exactly why any of the State Parliaments should
be housed in a palace is difficult to say. Even Legis-
lative Councils may be ephemeral. The party to which
Mr. O’Regan adheres is pledged to abolish them. In
Queensland the party succeeded, and half the enor-
mous pile which the fathers of their country built
is now a white elephant.
With transfer of powers and duties to the Com-
monwealth, and subdivision of States following
growth of population, the standing of State Parlia-
ments must naturally sink. There is not the slightest
call to spend more money than has already been spent
on the comfort of State legislators.
-♦
New Brooms in Maoriland.
The world does move. When Ballance —a very
moderate Liberal by present standards—formed a
Government in Maoriland in 1890, his political oppo-
nents spoke despairingly of “the seven devils of
socialism.” Later they affected to see in the common-
sense land legislation of Jock McKenzie, the industrial
arbitration scheme of W. P. Reeves and the old-age
pensions of Seddon nails in the coffin of the Empire,
if not of civilisation.
McKenzie died a highly respected and respect-
able knight. Reeves is the head of one of the world’s
leading academies of economics ; Seddon, in his latter
days, was so expansive an Imperialist that cartoonists
equipped him with a Union Jack waistcoat.
Now a Labor party with the usual professions
of socialist faith in its platform has taken over the
reins with a thumping majority, but instead of being
greeted by the other side with prophecies of dire
disaster it has been received in a sporting spirit. “The
referee’s decision is clear,” said Forbes, head of the
late but not lamented coalition, when the numbers
went up, and he wished the new crowd the best of
good luck, an attitude that has been adopted also by
non-Labor newspapers.
Forbes wasn’t sorry to get out. Retrenchment
during a depression is a thankless job, and the Cheviot
farmer is an old enough Parliamentary hand to realise
that its penalty is temporary banishment. The new
crowd comes in at a time when some of the scaffold-
ing erected during the lean years is ready to be carted
away; and among the many things the newcomers
have promised to do are not a few that any other
party would have been compelled to tackle.
Principal among these is the matter of recentralis-
ing the power of Parliament. In recent years Maori-
land has been governed by boards. A gross of them
was set up to exercise the Government’s deputed
authority; their scope covered almost everything
from running the railways and relieving the unem-
ployed to inspecting fowlhouses and prosecuting
suburbanites who neglected to spray the apple-tree in
the backyard. In addition to these boards governing
State undertakings, production and trade, there are
680 “local bodies,” ranging from important city and
county councils to obscure road boards, rabbit boards
and river boards. The abolition of a great many of
these is certain, and, as most of them had borrowing
powers, taxpayers and ratepayers of all political colors
will rejoice.
The new brooms can do a lot of clean sweeping
without cannoning against useful people’s corns.
• ♦
“Unfortified” Harar.
The latest mass of misstatement about the campaign
in Abyssinia described the bombing of the “unforti-
fied” city of Harar, with the usual catalogue of alleged
horrors. Harar has been a walled city for over 500
years. It resisted numerous sieges by the Arabs.
Burton visited Harar after his journey to Mecca,
it being then one of the holy cities of Islam. He
found his stay a more ticklish one than the Mecca
adventure, if only for the reason that there was not
the same vast throng of stranger pilgrims.
In his account of the city Burton dwells on the
tremendously thick mud walls enclosing it. The
Italian version of the bombing says these have been
added to and strengthened until they constitute for-
midable defensive works, even against modern
weapons,
A Public Accounts Muddle.
N. S. Wales Auditor-General’s report on State busi-
ness undertakings will not increase public confidence
in official business methods. As usual, there is
comment after comment on slipshod listing and
accounting. .
Treasury books, for instance, show the capital
loan indebtedness of the railways at £143,097,514;
railway accounts reckon it as £142,593,643 —or
£503,871 less. A search party sent out to “locate”
the difference was unable to do so, but it prepared a
statement showing many variations between the books
of the two departments.
Railway fixed assets are valued at £141,250,979,
but the A.-G. cannot vouch for their existence or
values because inventories and particulars are not full
enough to allow him to do so.
Newcastle tramway records were found to be
incomplete in regard to land, buildings, plant and
machinery, with no insurance against accident claims.
State coalmine inventories are in the same con-
dition as those of the railways—incomplete. State
Tourist Bureaux and Resorts accountancy and internal
checks are described as “inadequate,” The stock
sheets at the Jenolan pub are “unsatisfactory” ; so is
the stores accounting at head office.
In the Stamp Duties office, which handled about
£3,300,000 last year, and as much as £7,000,000 in a
recent year, the “observations made in previous reports
as to the need for providing checks against evasion,
and the inadequacy of the internal check still apply.”
Lastly, the Milk Board comes in for some
bouquets. Over several years it has paid £30,180
irregularly to producers in “amounts in excess of those
gazetted as being the price to be paid to them for
milk.” A statute is needed to make the payments legal.
This was receiving attention in April, 1935. It is still
receiving attention. It is clearly not the only thing
that should be.
♦
The Plague of Commissions.
One of the proximate causes of the downfall of the
Bruce Government in 1929 was its lavish expenditure
on boards and commissions. But since July, 1932,
according to a return reluctantly tabled in the House
of Reps., after persistent questioning, commissions
and boards have cost the taxpayers £90,934.
The Wheat Commission heads the list with
£40,384. Its only important recommendation which
was accepted by the Government was that there
should be a grant of some £4,000,000 to the wheat
industry. There had been previous distributions of
the kind, and it needed no royal commission to tell
the Government that there would have to be another.
The Commission on Taxation Laws (£7773)
did good work, possibly because the subject of its
inquiry was of a non-political character. The Petrol
Commission required £10,659, and the results have
been nil. A Parliamentary discussion on the report
has been refused.
The Grants Commission has cost £9853, and
apparently this excrescence on the Constitution is to
be permanent. It has been so generous with its recom-
mendations of gifts of tax-money to improvident States
that the Commonwealth Treasury has been driven to
publish a mild protest. And there is the Banking
Commission, which has barely found its feet yet.
The Bulletin has tried to follow its proceedings, but
after wading through 275 closely-typed foolscap pages,
the fruits of three days’ evidence, it decided to turn
to something useful. Clouds of witnesses are descend-
ing on this commission, and everyone connected with
politics knows that its report will lead to nothing, as
did that of the Royal Commission on the Constitution.
Expenditure on that performance was £lB,OOO.
— *
Kicked to Death—Twelve Months!
In N, S. Wales last week 13 men lay under
sentence of death (in some cases appeals have been
lodged), and there were two convictions of killers.
In one case the accused had gone to the house of a
man against whom he had a grudge and kicked him
so fearfully on face and body that death ensued. He
was let off with a sentence of 12 months!
The charge was murder, the verdict man-
slaughter ; but there was no recommendation to
mercy. Street, J., described it as “a case for the
exercise of a considerable degree of leniency.” No
one who has ever, seen ruffians engage in the sicken-
ing brutality of “putting in the boot” will agree with
his Honor.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Duckbill”: This year’s medal for Eng-
lish writers who fall down on Australian
dialogue goes to Warwick Deeping.
In his Sackcloth into Silk, he makes
the weedy, slinking Cockney pacifist
Augustus approach two Diggers on a
park seat, both in a vile temper after a
binge. He fells them they are fools to
die for millionaire capitalists. Says one,
“Are you being funny, you piece of
chewed string?” Then, “Stinking fish,
you bit of chalk and cheese! Say that
again, will you?” Augustus says it, and
is promptly woodened out with the re-
mark, “You foul coward.” If any of
that’s Australian I’m a Patagonian.
H: H 5 H* H«
“O. de V.”: From the “S. M. Herald’s”
account of the final scene in “The Flying
Doctor,” the latest Australian talkie:
The scene was the office of a sheep
station, at which shearers apparently were
being paid. Mary Maguire sat at a little
window and gave two shearers their
cheques nonchalantly. Then Charles
Farrell arrived at the window, swag on
back.
The spectacle of shearers with matilda
up filing past the station office window
to be handed their cheques from the
heroine, who apparently issues them like
tickets at a railway booking office, may
go down in George-street or Britain, but
the merriment that greeted “The Squat-
ter’s Daughter” will be nothing to the
reception this will draw in every country
cinema hall,
* * * *
“Kellick”; Recently at Brisbane a man
charged with a minor offence was re-
minded that 14 years previously he had
been convicted on a similar charge. In
the navy and army, if a man is crimed it
is entered on his conduct sheet. After two
years, however—and in some cases less
•—men are given a new sheet on which
only very serious offences remain. It is
even possible, after a longer period, to
get the crime of crimes, desertion,
removed. Some such principle might
well be applied to civilian life.
* * * *
“Regulus”: To enable some 70 Ger-
man residents in Melbourne to record
their votes for the Reichstag elec-
tion, they were transported to a
German freighter lying outside the
three-mile international limit. The same
procedure, it is hinted, would have been
adopted at other State capitals had there
been a German vessel in port—only
there didn’t happen to be. One might
have thought that a consulate would
have answered the purpose —especially as
the election was a matter purely for Ger-
mans themselves —but it just serves to
show the distance that separates a mere
Consul from a right-down, regular
Ambassador. “An Ambassador’s house,”
it is laid down by international law, “is
regarded, like a ship at sea, as forming
part of the territory represented by the
flag hoisted over it.” A Consul’s, even
a Consul-General’s, obviously carries no
such distinction.
“S.G.”: Charming items from two
Sydney papers:
J. A. Mollison is planning to fly round
the world solo in 21 days. On the way
he intends to cross the Pacific from Aus-
tralia to America —solo. — "Sun,” March 29.
Mrs. Amy Mollison intends to attack
Flight-Lieutenant Rose’s record for the
flight from London to the Cape. She will
also enter for the French Aero Club’s
Paris-Indo-China race in October, intend-
ing to fly a machine now being secretly
built at Croydon.—“ D.T.March 30.
Well, it’s her privilege to have the last
word.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Public Examinations
Board has issued its annual cream-skim-
ming from the hundreds of howlers
offered to it. Many are only facts awk-
wardly expressed, as “The elasticity of
strawberries increases with the lower
price”; “Milton’s description of hell was
marvellous, considering he had never
been there”; “Most professions and
occupations can be entered without much
work, except where restrictions are ap-
plied as to doctors and lawyers and the
opening of public-houses.” The best
specimens seem to be: (1) Scientific,
“Buck up, Rupert — that's the last batch!"
“Aviators look for small islands with
microscopes”; (2) historic, “Hohenzollern
was a wr iter Shakspeare obtained his
f acts f ro m” ; (3) Australian, “Saltbush is
the chief form of vegetation on Eyre
Peninsula, and therefore salt is the chief
export.”
*** * .
Bmduli ; Long ago a friend of mine
did Hunting Notes for the West Aus-
trahan, Perth haying a hunt club which
pursued the mild brush wallaby. His stuff
consisted mainly of quotations from
ballads of the chase and lists of riders
and mounts, and was usually telephoned
to the newspaper office at night. Called
away one week, he handed over the re-
porting job to a friend, like himself an
enthusiast, but impatient. The substitute,
’phoning his first effort, was irri-
tated beyond measure by the man at the
other end, who insisted on his repeating
the stanzas from “John Peel” and the
names of every huntsman, -woman and
horse, and on his spelling nearly all.
After quarter of an hour of this, the
unseen auditor said, “I think I’ve got
most of’em right: ‘Mrs. Cluppins was on
Battler, Miss Guppy on Oyster Knife,
Miss Bobby Guppy on Hullabaloo, Mr.
Parchment on Cockychaff, Mr. Scalpel
on Doodlakine’ and so on ; but I didn’t
quite get Mr. Hawkins, What was Mr,
Hawkins on?” “His ear,” roared the
locum, ringing off. To Perth’s vast
delight it appeared in the “West” that
way _“l also noticed Mr. Hawkins on
His Ear.” Some joker must have stored
it up in a retentive memory, for this
appeared the other day in the Kal-
goorlie “Miner’s” Lady’s Letter:
Miss Sylvia D entertained a number
of her young friends last Sunday at a riding
party, her father placing his thorough-
breds at her disposal Among those
present were Miss Sylvia D ,on Duke
Mortlake; Miss Iris F , on Yoreine;
Miss Betty D ,on Star Anton; Mr.
L. F ,on Day Stream; Mr. Jack
O’N , on Gold Brick; Mr. J. Q ,
on His Ear.
The gales of laughter that swept the
goldfields were heightened by the know-
ledge that the owner indirectly referred
to has had a difference of opinion with
his jockey, the youth blithely mentioned
as having been “on His Ear.”
* * * *
“Anatoxin”: The lady who objected
to her children being “memorised with
that there dip’theria stuff” (B. l/4/’36)
is not alone in the community. Recently
a Brisbane alderman objected to the
inoculation of children “with poisoned
horse blood.” It reminds me that
in pre-war days I was employed on a
Sydney paper which came out in violent
opposition to the campaign for compul-
sory vaccination instituted when the city
struck a severe smallpox epidemic. The
journal was lurid with loathsome photo-
graphs of people who had “taken” badly.
and John Norton, who rode on the whirl-
wind and directed the storm of anti-
inoculation in the paper, excelled him-
self in his printed fulminations. One
day John walked into my office evidently
a bit above himself. He lurched slightly
and his upper arm came in contact with
a cupboard. Blasphemy which curdled
even my accustomed blood followed, and
presently he walked out without another
word . It was ea sy to see, however, that
John was suffering from a bad-inocula-
don arm
*’* * *
“Runa”: Passion-fruit may be popu-
Jar in America nowadays (B. 11/3/’36),
but our experience years ago was dif-
ferent. We sent a case to an American
relative. She delightedly distributed it
among her friends and awaited their
ecstatic comments. Their only reaction to
the gift was one of horror. “Do they
really eat those awful things in New Zea-
land? With all those dreadful seeds?
Well, what a wonder all of them haven’t
died of appendicitis long ago!”
* * * *
“Paterfamilias”: Joseph Lyons’s
spirited adjuration to his countrymen to
arrest the declining birth-rate (B.
1/4/’36) is a reminder that he is the first
Prime Minister who has kept the quiver
really full. As far as I can gather from
reference books his nine predecessors in
office could count only 27 children
among them ; Hughes (seven) and Barton
(six) head the count, which doesn’t leave
many for the other seven. Anyhow,
the average worked out as a bare three
till Joseph arrived ; already he has sent
it up to nearly four.
Hj H« H* *
“Jobber”; The sub-branch of the
Diggers’ League to which I belong runs
a distress fund, the cash being raised
by various means, among them a quiet
game of “housie”—a money-spinner
worth at least 100 of the best in 12
months. There is never any noise over
the game, never an argument; the women
flock to the tables, and it is good to hear
the old Digger calls from the head of the
table—“ Legs eleven,” “Kelly’s eye,” “The
top of the Wazzir” and so on. It is the
only form of gambling permitted in the
army, specially mentioned in King’s
Regs.; but the police said “housie” had
to stop. A protest was sent to the heads
in Sydney; the answer was that the
ban would not be lifted. Coming from
a Government which runs a State lottery
this is surely Gilbertian.
* * * *
“C.F.J.”: “Clara Cobber” (B.
26/2/’36) is not alone in objecting to the
use of the words “male” and “female.”
Recently the lady pedagogues of a high
school in a N.S.W. country town lodged
a protest to the heads against the label
“Female Teachers” on the door of their
staff room. At latest they were trying
to get the local Parents and Citizens to
lend a hand in the removal of the in-
vidious words.
* * * *
“P.R.W.”: One of the last of the old
order of managing clerks, who died a
few years back, had practised in three
States, and used to claim that he had
briefed every member of the High Court
in their practising days. He was a great
friend of Jack Want, whom he had
accompanied once on a trip to Japan.
Not the least of Joe -’s good points,
in the eyes of counsel, was his reputa-
tion for paying promptly and well. Early
one morning, as he was getting ready for
a case in which Want had been briefed,
a small boy appeared in the doorway.
“Yes,” shouted Joe, “what is it?”
“Please, sir, Mr. Want says that he wants
his cheque.” “Run away, I’m busy now.
Tell Mr. Want it’s all right—he knows
me.” Twenty minutes later the small
boy reappeared. “Yes,” bellowed Joe,
“what is it now?” “Please, sir, Mr.
Want told me to tell you it’s because
he blanky well knows you that he wants
the cheque.”
* # * ♦
“S.T.S.”: S.A. seems to have no
prejudice against birth-control. The
Government Statist reports a steady rise
in marriages, along with a steady fall in
births. The former have been going up
for four years, and in 1935 made a
record, beating the boom year 1926.
Also the marriage-rate per 1000 was the
highest since 1921. On the other hand,
the 1935 birth-rate was lower than ever
before. Still, deaths are kept so low that
the natural increase was over 3000,
* * * *
“Fisher”: Talking of firearms, the old
Stokes was probably the most unpopular
weapon in the war on the aviation side.
It has lately reappeared with a new desig-
nation, “three - inch muzzle - loading
mortar.” I was breaking a recruit into
it the other night, and got to the firing
action. The bomb is dropped down the
muzzle, and, unlike any other weapon
known to man, goes off without a trigger
action, the detonator at the base of the
bomb impinging on a fixed striker and
kicking itself off into space again. “X get
the idea,” admitted the neophyte ; “but
I’ve been working among firearms all my
life, and somehow it don’t seem right.”
“Rapid Fire”; In trying to fault some
of my statements re army rifles (B.
25/3/’36) “Mark VII” is too glib.
During the Boer War, as a private and
officer, I never saw or heard of a Lee-
Enfield rifle. The British infantry were
armed with the Lee-Metford ; the cavalry
and R.A. details with the Lee-Metford
carbine and the Martini-Enfield ditto.
Australian troops for the first year of the
war, including the writer’s Queensland
regiment, were armed with the Martini-
Enfield rifle; later all units carried the
Lee-Metford. Short Lee-Enfields were
evolved subsequently after a royal
commission had condemned the cavalry
carbine. As to the Martini-Enfield,
writer used one from Kimberley to
Pretoria against the Boer Mausers.
The rifle was sighted much shorter
than the Mauser and hopelessly over-
mastered by it in range and volume
of fire. “Mark Vll’s” reference to the
M.-E.’s muzzle velocity with the Mark
VI cartridge verges on the ridiculous.
That mark had not yet appeared on the
scene. Finally, muzzle velocity doesn’t
“mostly” govern range. The important
factor there is elevation.
DRINK AUSTRALIAN.
“Mr. Seabrook, one of the judges at the N.S.W.
Royal Show, declared that, when Australian sparkling
wines were of such high quality, the drinking of
imported brands was pure snobbishness.”
Brim out the tids and let the goblets clink!
But when to fizz and festiveness we’re fain
Why in the dickens should we want to drink
Of far-off France’s sweet or dry champagne?
Why hanker for the hock that long has lain
In Rhineland cellars or on vintners’ shelves?
Surely such snobbishness invites disdain,
Seeing we brew as brave a brand ourselves.
Froth out the stuff where beaded bubbles wink!
Occasions ceremonial ordain
Such adventitious aids as this, I think,
To keep the flow of soul in proper train.
Withal, our grapes are choice as those of
Spain,
Or where the swart Diego digs and delves;
They have no lien upon the vine’s domain —
We blend as blithe a beverage ourselves.
Foam out the tack that puts you in the pink
When birthdays beckon you down life’s long
lane,
Or when some gentle cleric’s forged the link
To make twin souls inseparably twain!
But when in sparkling Burgundy you drain
Toasts to the bride and her attendant elves,
Forbear the foolish thought to entertain
That Froggies make it better than ourselves.
And when the dead marines their presence
chink
To vagrant bottle-ohs, by tens and twelves,
See that their labels don’t suggest a kink.
Brothers, what boots it alien wines to drink
When we can brew as good or better our-
selves?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“W.J.E.”: H. E. Barnard, the Labor
lawyer from Napier, was a frequent de-
bater before being named Speaker (the
tenth) of the Maoriland Parliament (the
twenty-fifth). He referred to this
humorously when thanking members for
electing him, adding that he found com-
fort in a stanza from Tibet’s “Precious
Treasury of Elegant Sayings”:
Much talking is a source of danger:
silence is the means of avoiding misfor-
tune. The talkative parrot is shut up in
a cage; other birds which cannot talk
fly about freely.
Tunnecliffe, the Victorian Labor-leader,
would endorse those sentiments. Tunny
has no illusions about his own oratory.
To a delighted Melbourne Trades Hall
gathering he said: “I once spoke for
four hours in support of one of the boys.
He was licked by 4000 votes.’ Another
time I put a Government—Argyle’s—out
and another—Dunstan’s —in by making a
speech of four words. What did I say?
Just T second the motion.’ ”
* * * *
“Xex”: A strange parson called. He
explained breezily that he had noticed
Bill’s Berkshire had won first prize at
the local show, and he would like to in-
spect the animal. Bill led the way to the
pig pen, where he and the parson leaned
over the fence enthralled at the lumber-
"Who are We enterin' for the Show, anyway — me or the bull?"
ing mass of flesh below. “A fine animal,”
said the visitor. “One of the biggest
I’ve ever seen.” Bill, feeling that the
occasion called for some observation that
would be appropriate to the calling of
his guest, cleared his throat. “My oath!”
he said hoarsely. “There ain’t none o’
us so fit to die as ’e is!”
“Fiona”: Ours is an office with a very
limited correspondence, so when the chief
clerk found that the usually Small Stamp
account had doubled itself he became
- .-i
interested. Percy, the office boy, pro-
duced the book, which showed the usual
three or four letters per day as posted.
The puzzle remained until
Percy was met in the
street a week later with
a bulky pile of letters;
most of them, on being
confiscated, were found
addressed to various dam-
sels unknown to the firm.
“Lei’s get back to the pub, Dave. We've seen everything.
Investigation revealed that Percy and a
friend of the same age had set up as
beauty specialists, having acquired a face-
cream recipe which they were retailing
at Is. a time. Percy, it became clear,
had availed himself of the office stamp
account to post the recipe to his clients.
The boss pulled Percy’s ears and con-
ducted him to the door, remarking that
his office did not offer Percy scope
enough.
* * «
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Racial memories
have a lot to do with the characteristic
type of villain. Anthropologists have
traced the “ogre” of childhood back to
scattered remnants of the Neanderthalers,
lurking in wooded and stony fastnesses,
which children were warned to avoid.
The same characteristic works in reverse,
if the memories are happy ones. When
Cortes invaded Mexico, the white corn-
plexions of his soldiers helped him far
on the road to Tenochtitlan, as the racial
heroes of the Aztecs had been formed
on the model of previous white bene-
factors, probably Norsemen, centuries
before. What color is the Chinese or
Japanese stage villain?
“sth Q. 1.8.”: Touching that “vivid
Boer War memory” of “Hecagus” (B.
1 /5/’36), as one of the party he writes of
I did not hear the officer mentioned or
his offsider, Lieut. Pooley (killed a few
days later), say anything about putting
too-ardent riflemen under arrest. Also
the only time we came under fire after
crossing the Caledon River was from a
small Boer outpost on the ridge above
the riverbank. The ridge ran at right
angles across another, a thousand yards
away, which was lined with a Boer com-
mando waiting patiently for our main
body, their horses standing peacefully on
the slope behind. They were too strong
for us to tackle, and gallopers were sent
off to put the main body wise. The
corps commander at that time was the
late Sir John Jervis, noted for his
caution. He followed his usual course
of tiring the enemy out. In time they
got tired and retreated. We then fired
our first shots since leaving camp that
morning, but did no harm as far as we
could see. Both the officers used re-
grettable language at this stage, not at
their own men but at the corps com-
mander, who deliberately chucked away
a splendid chance of scuppering a good
bunch of the Boojers. ,
* * * *
“Collision Mat”; Face foliage is so
meticulously regulated in British fighting
forces that a Guardsman has got into
serious trouble for dyeing his ginger mo.
black. Pre-war soldiers had to sport
moustaches whether they liked them or
not, but in the Senior Service only cooks
and stewards might do so if unaccom-
panied by beards. Since 1916, however,
soldiers may wear any kind of “whiskers”
except beards, but the whiskers must be
of moderate length. The R.A.F.' may
wear a moustache, but it must not be
trimmed with a razor—“toothbrushes”
are banned. The navy, except for the
cook and steward exceptions, must either
shave or not shave ; collision-outfit com-
plete or cleared for action, no dam’ com-
promise permitted.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The Japanese proposal
to form a ship-canal through the Isthmus
of Kra in South Siam, in order to
neutralise the advantage of the Singapore
naval and air bases, has been
carried out before, and by a
Japanese. During the fifteenth
century this district gave the
Siamese empire a lot of trouble
with revolutions, and a cele-
brated Japanese pirate, Murata,
was employed to get it under
control. He did the job so well
that he was made Governor of
the province. Realising the ad-
vantages of a short cut into the
Indian Ocean, he put his sub-
jects on to the job, and com-
pleted it in three years. It fell
into disrepair later, but substantial traces
of it are still apparent.
* * * *
“Oran”: I am less concerned about
the periodic round-up of firearms (B.
1/4/’36) reported with so much embel-
lishment than with the fate of those from
whom the arms have been taken. My
point is that if I, a reputable citizen,
should be found with an unlicensed re-
volver in my possession something un-
pleasant would certainly happen to me.
But apparently owners of the 1400 confis-
cated revolvers went scot-free. There is
no deterrent to crime in this.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A very unusual type of
citizen has cropped up in Sydney —one
who had a large sum of money due to
him from the Bankruptcy
Court but firmly refused to
take delivery of it. He was
actually solvent when his
estate was sequestrated, but
apparently he had objected to
pay a certain debt, and com-
pulsion had to be exercised.
After the settlement of all
liabilities his estate showed a
surplus of £4500. For years
the Official Receiver has been
begging the ex-bankrupt by
letter —he avoids interviews—
to collect, and relieve him of
embarrassment; uncollected
balances are so rare in bank-
ruptcy that no legal provision
has been made to deal with
them. After years of unsuc-
cessful effort a Court has
made an order permitting the
money to be posted to a
G.P.O. box number —the only
address in the possession of
Bankruptcy officials. A cheque,
which an obdurate recipient
might refuse to cash, obvi-
ously would not do ; but there
are other means —the Post
Office doesn’t worry if postal orders are
not cashed.
* * * *
“Jungor”; The late Edward Witte-
noom was Westralia’s first Minister for
Mines, and not altogether a bad one
despite the trouble he struck over the
alluvial regulations. One thing that
should always be remembered to his
credit is the State battery system —per-
haps the most practical way of helping
prospectors and small claimholders in
isolated districts ever devised. One of the
difficulties that faced Bigjohn Forrest
when the Mines portfolio was first
established in the middle ’nineties was
finding anyone with a first-hand know-
ledge of goldmining among his hardshell
Groper following; a man was expected
to learn all about his job after he had
got it. When H. B. Lefroy succeeded
Wittenoom (his brother-in-law) as M. for
M., he frankly admitted his limitations
in this respect. The next morning a
goldfields newspaper came out with some
flaring headlines;
Our New Minister for Mines.
Never Been Down One.
But He’s Been Down a Well.
The jest was worn threadbare on the
fields before the squatter-Minister heard
the last of it.
* * * *
“Iberian”: “Notaden” (B. 25/3/’36)
has got things mixed. It was the big,
red Celt who climbed all over the little,
dark folk in Britain and drove the rem-
nants into corners like Cornwall, Wales
and the far South of Ireland. In the
case of Ireland the Celts perpetrated an
even greater injustice by imposing their
language upon what was left of the
original inhabitants. This language is
now being forced on the South of Ireland
in place of English, though really it only
means substituting the tongue of an
earlier conqueror for that of a later one.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Like the late O. Henry, I
discounted fiction concerning the quiet
man who always cleans up the big, blus-
tering bloke in the end —until Vienna
Mat, a southern European Hercules,
came to the construction camp on the
Moama-Balranald (N.S.W.) railway.
Mat’s favorite form of offence was to
dance around you and say in a friendly
manner “Come on an’ I show y’ a few
hits.” If you accepted his offer in the
playful way it was extended, you found
yourself flat on your back wondering
whether it was Halley’s comet or a new
one. The camp accepted Mat as its
“king-hit” man, and everybody avoided
crossing him. There came a sallow-
featured, unobtrusive chap with the
mysterious nickname of “Water-wheel”;
he bumped into Mat accidentally. Mat
whirled and growled, “I knock y’ block
orf!” The other turned aside, carefully
placed the kero.-tin of water he was
carrying on a stump, as slowly turned
back, regarded Mat calmly, and said,
“You may start now, if you wish.”
Almost overwhelmed by such courtesy.
Mat started —and finished on his face
in the dust. No, there’s no catch. “Water-
wheel” didn’t turn out to be a champion
incog., neither did he ever explain how
i he did it. It wasn’t necessary—the whole
• camp knew that his right arm ended in
, a steel hook!
SPUDS.
“The decline in favor of the potato as food is
due to the modern craze for slimming, which causes
women to look with abhorrence on the fattening
vegetable.” —Letter in “S. M. Herald
Three centuries and a half have scored their
tally
Since the Old World acquired you from the
New,
By grace of Hawkins, Drake and Walter
Raleigh,
To boil and roast, to bake and fry and stew.
And now they hint you’re bunging in your
alley,
Losing your punch! I question if it’s true.
Where would old Ireland be —I wonder where —
With this hiatus in the bill o’ fare?
To countless millions, I’ll lay a guinea
Against a gooseberry, you’ve comfort dealt,
The faithful friend alike of Jack and Jennie,
The steadfast staff and stay for all who felt
A hollow feeling underneath the pinny,
A gnawing vacuum inside the belt!
And should it now be counted you for ill,
The simple fact you fatten while you fill?
It startles me to learn your mealy treasure,
Upon our plates perpetually placed,
Is apt to be surveyed with mild displeasure,
If not, indeed, with positive distaste,
By dames and damsels disinclined to measure
Another inch or two around the waist —
A thing, I’m very much disposed to doubt,
If Milo’s Venus bothered much about.
Moistened with buttermilk where fires are turfy,
Served, new, with lamb when spring is in
the blood,
Crisp-chipped with fish, my money’s on the
murphy;
I never look to see it come a thud.
I feature it a figment or a furphy,
This fear of fading favor for the spud;
For one prerogative that man preserves
Is unconcern about his spreading curves.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


My throat is grateful for.
that extra touch of quality.
2«/„rlf6
l©/br9 d
OL&M&M&eh.
w
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
m
1-11
L3W
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
A strike of steelworkers at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) has been settled after
eight wasted weeks. It was prolonged by
foolish Parliamentary speeches, prompted
by Labor politicians’ surly and sterile
hostility to the Broken Hill Prop., that
outstanding example of Australian brains
and energy in the industrial field. One
of the terms of settlement was that all
future disputes must be submitted to arbi-
tration, This is inconsistent with Cur-
tin’s “New” Protection, but perhaps the
“New” Protection is dead already.
Lyons and co. were beaten again last
week, on an Opposition proposal to raise
the duties on “sanitary earthenware”
from Britain. According to Forde, wages
in British concerns average 355. a week.
The director of the Australian Associa-
tion of British Manufacturers says they
range from £2 Bs. sd. to £4 17s. 3d., the
average being £3 9s. lOd. One of these
worthies must be a mine of misinfor-
mation.
Almost everyone except Lyons and co.
is having a go at the Ottawa Agreements.
In the course of a week the Australian
Parliament twice rejected tariff items in
defiance of them, the Indian Legislative
Assembly voted for “terminating them
without delay,” and Birmingham manu-
facturers declared that they were no
dashed good to Brummagem. One thing
is certain: no Australian Government will
ever again be permitted to bind Parlia-
ment to acceptance of import duties
framed by a board.
After the tariff snubs, the P.M. used a
velvet glove in addressing his party, but
recalcitrants felt that there was a horse-
shoe or something in it. The effect was
seen when the Ministry carried the
balance of the schedule without diffi-
culty. Senators will restore the rejected
cement and sanitary earthenware items,
and after recess there will be sufficient
Ministerialist votes in the House to re-
verse its decisions. Lane and Lawson,
having difficult seats, are to be allowed
the luxury of voting against the Govern-
ment ccasionally.
After a sitting of four weeks, follow-
ing a three months’ spell, the House of
Reps, has gone into recess. When it
resumes it will sit for a fortnight or so ;
then members will not be seen at the
capital again until September, when for
the first time in two years there will be
a formal opening by the G.-G., with
cocked hats, Court swords and gold
braid cluttering up the lobbies.
The German election was a queer busi-
ness, judged by British standards ; still,
there is no arguing against a result that
showed 45,408,000 for Hitler and 542,800
against. In Australia, where dissentients
could rely on protection, the voting was
179 to 1. Manifestly nationalism is the
fiercest of all passions that sway peoples,
especially when aroused by foreign inter-
ventionists. Churchill aroused it in Russia
by backing the Whites against the Reds,
and the Red push aroused it in Japan
and Germany—helped, in the latter case,
by French and British politicians—by
its world-revolution policy. “Sanctions”
have produced the same effect in Italy.
In James v. the Commonwealth, Men-
zies is appearing for his Government for
his bare salary as Attorney-General,
which is only a fraction of what he would
have been offered as an eminent private
practitioner. It transpires that he is also
representing Victoria for a fee of £2OOO ;
and Blackburn, M.H.R., supported by
Brennan, M.H.R., contends that this is
utterly wrong. Legal members on the
Ministerial side protest that it is per-
fectly right. What does seem deplor-
able is that Menzies the politician should
be employed in an attempt to abridge the
liberties of the Australian people,
thought to have been established in Sec-
tion 92 of the Constitution:
Trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free.
On royal commissions and other “in-
vestigating authorities,” the Common-
wealth Government has spent just on
£91,000 since July, 1932. Royal com-
missions and politicians’ trips (£43,000
in four years) represent an appreciable
addition to the cost of government by
the seven Parliaments, seven Govern-
ments, a Loan Council, a Premiers’ Con-
ference and innumerable boards; but
Casey says his Government can’t
economise anywhere. And Casey is an
honorable man.
There have been odd sequels to the
House of Reps, resolution in favor of
a duty of 6d. per hundredweight on
“You know, Mr. Hughes says the future of the race depends on us.”
British cement, which has been on the
free list since the end of November.
For one thing, a new cement co. has
shot up in Perth ; then Sydney Water
Board, dealing with tenders for three
months’ supplies of cement, found that
the price per ton for A-class had sud-
denly advanced from £2 16s. 3d., less 2\
p.c., to £3 9s. 6d. net, and for B-class
from £2 13s. 9d., less 2\ p.c., to £3 7s.
net. The campaign against Protection
would be dead but for, some of its
beneficiaries.
Busybodies who are for ever demand-
ing a trade agreement with Russia, based
on the swapping of wool for oil, have
been answered by Gullett —“the possibili-
ties were thoroughly explored last year,
and Russia wasn’t interested.”
More than once during the late pro-
ceedings in the House of Reps, the Oppo-
sition benches rang with demands for
restriction of imports. But when Gullett
announced that this action was contem-
plated—against the U.S.A. —the same
benches were strangely silent. Why?
In spite of the Alberta fiasco, there
are still Douglas Credit cranks in Aus-
tralia as well as Laborites with Douglas
Credit leanings. Some of the latter broke
out into a rash of resolutions at the Tas.
Labor Conference, one “unreservedly
approving of the principle of a national
dividend payable to every man, woman
and child.”
The money for the payment of this divi-
dend to be created as provided in the
Federal Constitution and to be debt-free
and interest-free.
“As provided in the Federal Constitu-
tion” is sheer humbug. The Constitution
is a very imperfect instrument of gove-
ernment, but it is not so idiotic as that.
The Victorian Cockies held their
annual conference in Bendigo. Premier
Dunstan made a speech which was one
long tirade against the U.A.P., whose ally
he was for three years and during the
election campaign a year ago ; and
Federal C.P. members, headed by Pater-
son, the Minister for the Interior, were
severely snubbed. Among the resolu-
tions passed were one “urging the various
Governments to provide sufficient cur-
rency for the people’s reasonable needs,”
and another condemning “the failure of
the present system of distribution,” and
bespeaking support for Parliamentary
candidates who make it their business “to
provide a just share for all.” This group
seems destined to go Labor, but there
will be a rare old split when it does.
For many months U.A.P. Assembly-
men have been growling about the price
exacted for milk in Sydney (7d. a quart)
under “control” ; also about the quality
of some of the milk, the personnel of
the board and the Government’s subser-
viency to it, though its dperations were
reviewed in an uncommonly critical
spirit by a royal commissioner. To quieten
them the operations are to be investi-
gated again—by a gentleman who was
“Chief Administrative Officer of the
Lunacy Department.” But they refuse
to be quiet, and there was a “scene in
the House,” during which one “Govern-
ment member” described another as “a
damned skunk.” The other gentleman
muttered something about somebody
being a liar.
Lang, thundering against the ove ™'
ment Railways and Transport (Amend-
ment) Bill:
This bill includes retrospection, repudi-
ation and confiscation, three of the ugnes
features that could possibly be associate
with legislation.
Happily, the heavens remained in theii
accustomed place.
Deputy-Premier Pease asked Brisbane
Assembly electors to return the Labor
Mann “by a majority sufficiently ovei-
whelming to enhance my prospects
of raising money at the meeting of the
Loan Council in May.” A noble aspira-
tion that. The one Queenslander who
has become Prime Minister began by
saying that he had “a horror of the Com-
monwealth becoming a seventh bor-
rower.” But Fisher is dead, and pawn-
shop politicians have succeeded him.
A Melbourne manufacturing firm
which does part of its trade in Queensland
was bailed up for £4OO tax on alleged
profits made in the State, where profits
(which may be losses) are fixed arbi-
trarily. The firm denied Queensland juris-
diction. Taxgatherers promptly visited
all Brisbane retailers handling its goods
and garnisheed all payments due by
them to it. The familiars of the
Inquisition would have “dipped their
lids” to the Queensland Tax Department.
There has been a rumpus in England
because the Dean of Liverpool re-
fused to offer up the customary prayer
for the Cabinet on the ground that “the
proposal to send British troops to the
Rhineland” was “monstrous” —as it is.
A politician named Duff Cooper
asterised the Dean as one of “those
ignorant clergymen who presume to give
advice on foreign affairs.”
The attitude of clerics who barge into
the political arena makes me sympathise
with Henry 11., who in a moment of haste
expressed an opinion that led to an un-
expected vacancy at Canterbury.
Mr. Duff Cooper was noticeably silent
when clerics barged into the Italo-Abys-
sinian business. And the most vociferous
barger was Thomas a Becket’s successor.
Before the end of 1936 J
Bull is to begin building two
battleships, five cruisers, an
aircraft carrier and some sub-
marines and sloops, alto-
gether 175,000 tons, esti-
mated to cost £35,000,000;
and newspapers call it “the
greatest naval programme
ever undertaken.” In 1909-
10, Britain built 175,000
tons of battleships and battle-
cruisers (six), plus light cruisers and
other craft; in 1911-12, 180,000 tons;
and in each of the next three years
battleship and cruiser construction alone
totalled five ships a year of 140,000 tons
or thereabouts. During the war, apart
from Repulse, Renown and Hood, the
average construction of cruisers was 14
p.a. —a total of 243,000 tons, plus an
equal tonnage of light craft and 105,000
tons of aircraft carriers.
From Molonglo-side;
The Government is in its fifth year of office,
and naturally a group of “disgruntled Minis-
terialists” —a phrase heard everywhere in the
last days of Bruce-Page—is coming into being.
There are four ex-Ministers in the U.A.P.
room, all “exed” since the arrangement with
the Cockies. All four voted against a motion that
progress be reported, and thus took the busi-
ness out of the Government’s hands—which
is ominous for the future. Then there is
Lawson, of Macquarie, who appears to be cast-
ing himself for the role of candid critic which
brought Gullett into the Bruce Ministry.
Though not without ability, Lawson is scarcely
a Gullett, and it may be doubted whether
Gullett tactics will help him politically.


ACCORDING TO ORDERS.


C
H
I
N
E
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA y
JOHN HEINE
5 Y D N EY
Representatives; McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s’’ criticism (10/I/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD., 7
Head Office; Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; 0. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
• Resident. Secretary.
District Offices . and Agencies Throughout the States.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
TREASURY BILLS AND THE
MARKET
HAS THERE BEEN INFLATION?
THE GOLDMINING INDUSTRY
April Issue Now on Sale.
Price 2j- per Copy,
and Worth Pounds to Investors.
PERTONAL ITEMS
Colebatch’s second term as Agent-
General expires this month. The first
Westralian Labor Government (1904)
appointed the Opposition-leader (Walter
James) A.-G. Bill Angwin, who trampled
on all precedents by accepting a C.M.G.,
is the only dyed-in-the-wool Laborite
who has served in the London office ;
he was a Cornishman. W. D. Johnson,
one of the original 1901 Labor Assembly-
men, is mentioned as a possibility, but
there is a strong idea that the job will
be kept open for Kenneally unless or
until the Court of Disputed Returns
upsets the East Perth election.
William Forster Woods, here depicted
by Frith, was host at the recent Aus-
Mr. Chairman, Melbourne Stock
Exchange.
tralasian Stock Exchange Conference,
held in Melbourne. A member of Mel-
bourne ’Change since 1895, Woods has
been on the committee since 1903, was
chairman during 1920-29, and was re-
elected in October, 1934. Of solid build
and Scottish descent, his appearance sug-
gests a block of granite. He has forth-
right ideas on mining-company control,
in regard to which his Exchange is the
most exacting in the Commonwealth.
Apart from the S.E. chairmanship (a
whole-time job), Woods finds his princi-
pal recreation in a “camp” at Macedon.
Cabled that Delysia has “walked out”
of the London production of “At the
Silver Swan.” Edmond Samuels is the
author and composer ; in business life he
is a Sydney chemist with many theatri-
cal customers. His play, produced first
at Glasgow, opened in London to a house
which included S. M. Bruce and other
notable Australians, and has been run-
ning for six or seven weeks.
Had a 75th birthday, in Adelaide,
William Mitchell, ex-Professor of Philo-
sophy at the University, and a world-
authority on his subject. He has been
a good Scofch-Australian for 42 years,
Vice-Chancellor of his university for 20,
and a knight since its jubilee in 1926.
Fisken, M.H.R., head of the Common-
wealth Meat Board, is a third-generation
member of an old Scottish pioneering
family which has held Lai Lai station
(Vic.) since the fifties of last century. His
father arrived in Melbourne in 1840 as
a lad, searched for gold round Ballarat,
and then bought Lai Lai outright. The
present M.H.R. joined up in T 5, won
an M.C. and commission in France, was
wounded, and went to the Rhine with
the army of occupation. He did some
notable repatriation work before enter-
ing the • Federal House, Lai Lai raises
Shorthorns and merinos.
Two more British peers are visiting
Australia —Lord Cranworth, who is an
authority on British East African affairs,
and who married a daughter of the
moneyed Lord Cowdray, and Lord
Woodbridge. The latter, who was once
vice-chairman of the British American
Tobacco Co., was raised to the peerage
in 1932. He was Controller of Mineral
Oils to the Munitions Ministry during
the war, and sat for a time in the Com-
mons. His only son was killed in action.
The retirement of H. Simpson, the
island accountant, will leave almost as
big a gap in the Sydney end of the navy
as if Garden Island itself had floated
away. He has been there 46 years.
To have lived on the same farm for
60 years is a record that few Australians
can equal. J. Gardiner, of Yannathan
(Vic.), has done it.
Spiked his last copy, R. J. H. Moses,
one of the rarest good fellows that ever
trod the Inky Way. At Fort-street High
and Sydney University Moses took in
the basis of a classic education, and built
on it. A short', solid, round-faced man
with a lively touch of humor, he was
one of the best mixers in Sydney. For
two or three years he was the J. C.
Williamson firm’s publicity man, but he
got back into journalism; was with
“Smith’s Weekly” for about 15 years,
leaving it a month or two ago to join
Sydney Newspapers. He edited the
“Woman’s Weekly” for a while, going
on to the “new” “Daily Telegraph” to
write a day or two’s copy before pneu-
monia took him.
The first job A. E. J, Austin had was
wrapping papers in The Bulletin pub-
lishing-room, and from there, 45 years
ago, he went to Brisbane fairly launched
in journalism. For 28 years he was on
the “Courier”
staff; for 22 of
them he was sport-
ing editor, and his
signature “Sirdar”
was known
thro'ughout the
Common wealth.
Then he was 13
years in charge of
the sporting
columns of the
Brisbane “Daily
Mail” before
founding his own
paper. Afterwards
he went into the
training business,
and had Mollison
under his care.
Almost every other
form of sport
knows Austin, and
for many years his
tenor voice was in
great demand at
northern smoke
concerts. As a
Labor member of
the Greater Bris-
bane Council, he
has been chairman
of the parks com-
mittee, A good-
natured chap,
always ready to help a wide range of
friends less fortunate than himselL
Alderman “SIRDAR” AUSTIN, of
Brisbane City Council.
Allan Pickering, First Clerk and Clerk
of Records of the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly,
in the running for the official secretary-
ship to the State Governor, is a brainy
fellow in his early thirties. Born in
N.S.W., he was educated at Fort-
street, Sydney, and the University; he
graduated B.E. in 1922, and secured his
M. in 1935. Pickering entered the
N. Public Service in 1919. He is
secretary of the N.S.W. Council of Agri-
cultural Societies, and takes an active
interest in local government.
“Inaha”: Forty-one years in the
Maoriland police force is the record of
Commissioner W. G. Wohlmann, who
is retiring. For two years after 1920 he
was Police Commissioner in Samoa, estab-
lishing there a civil force to replace the
military police. He has the 1.5.0. and
the Royal Victorian Order. Comparatively
slight in physique and mild in manner,
he is the direct antithesis of the popular
conception of a police chief, but he gets
the job done.
Lord Ranfurly, the new A.D.C. at
Canberra, is a grandson of the Lord
Ranfurly who was G.-G. of M.L. and
was one of the first investors in Chaff ey
Brothers’ pioneering irrigation scheme at
Mildura (Vic.).
Judge Piper, of S.A., who died in
February, left estate valued at £9600.
Inspector W. O. Sheridan, of Adelaide,
now in Sydney studying the latest crime-
detection methods, is promised the post
of chief of the similar body in S.A. on
his return. Only 45, he has had rapid
promotion since starting as a mounted
trooper.
Kalgoorlie has lost an old identity in
James Hurtle Cummins. Son of a
Warrnambool (Vic.) settler, he heard
Broken Hill calling, and went on to the
Westralian goldfields in the roaring days.
There he built and leased hotels and
managed breweries and took a hand in
various commercial undertakings for 40
active years. He was Mayor of Kal-
goorlie from 1905 to 1907. Last year, at
80, he decided on a trip abroad. He
died in London.
Author Archer Russell, whose Gone
Nomad will be published shortly, is a S.
Australian who has been roaming the
world since his
sch o o Idays. He
knows the Darling
and western
Queensland well,
and was a deck-
hand on the
B o u r k e - Echuca
run. In 1907 he
went to Africa and
traded on the
Upper Congo, then
wandered widely
over Europe,
Arabia and the
Mid-East. Back
in Australia, he
travelled through
the Eastern States
with painter Will
Ashton on a 1000-
mile motor-cara-
van tour, and later
made a long trek
through Central
Australia per
camel and donkey.
An original Anzac,
he served with the
9th Battalion on
Gallipoli and else-
where—but he had
run up against the
Teuton before the
war. H e w a s
arrested by the Germans at Dar-es-
Salaam for alleged espionage, but was
released. Two previous books, A Tramp
Royal in Wild Australia and Sunlit
Trails, have enjoyed wide sales.
Edward Wheewall Holden, born and
bred in Adelaide, has as handsome a
chassis as any man in the Australian
motor trade, and one of the best and
most forward-looking brains. He is 51,
a Bachelor of Science and an engineer.
“Motor-body” HOLDEN, of Adelaide.
He began to manufacture motor bodies
in 1917. General Motors threw in their
lot with him, and he is now managing
director of the biggest business of its
kind in the Commonwealth. E.W.H.
is a director of the Bank of Adelaide
and of the Adelaide Cement Co., an
M.L.C., an alderman of Adelaide and
likely to be the next Lord Mayor.
The R.A.N. has a man —Gregory,
C.P.O. —who took part in the retreat
from Mons. He was one of a detach-
ment of bluejackets who were pushed
in to lend a hand. A small rosette
attached to the ribbon of the ’l4 star
signifies the honor.
The blunders of the Moscow Govern-
ment have contributed to the lamentable
feeling against Jews. For example, it
chose Litvinoff to discharge venom when
Hitler sent his troops into the Rhineland.
Now, according to the “Daily Mail,” it
has sent Bela Kun (Cohen) to Spain to
complete the Bolshevisation of that dis-
tracted country —presumably by the
methods which made his name execrated
in Hungary.
“Omega”: A cable mentions that
Venizelos was buried in his native Crete
“in the presence of weeping multitudes. ’
H. G. Wells in one of his books depicts
two Englishmen surveying Cretan shores
and musing on the fact that the island
which produced one of the most splendid
civilisations of antiquity nowadays pro-
duces nothing much beyond lemons.
But that was before Crete threw up Veni-
zelos, the most outstanding figure in
Grecian history of our time—perhaps of
any time since Hellas threw off the Turk-
ish yoke. Even though his country sen-
tenced him to death in absentia two
years ago, it owed him much. Among all
the bargainers at Versailles Lloyd George
reckoned Venizelos the most astute
and determined. After that his triumphs
were always followed by setbacks ; his
later life was a declension, and he died
in exile.


tt* tbao-i, HERE'S TOEE
3
£
r
(\V
&
SS
/*»
C
iL
u
■£&*
Xr
y&
t>
I
>;
/
g
i
i
z
%
A
n
a* *$
A
a.
B
0
Jf
s'
m
J
i
✓
i
\
/
\
\ \
%
\
&
\s
•£;
I Wk *l. \m
imi
A\
BA
/ Cx
r *
t.:h
S 5
\^ V
-...
6
"SC
p
wvAVMUW-
OV»
z,f «■>■>>;
i- . Cy, .
u
% V'JT «** r - v
to®
.^•i^XvSv
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Ferguson & Go. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


“PUMPMOBIL”
(POBTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
r
m
:
I
ssss am.
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete 1201 b.
Capacity .. 12,000 gallons per hour.
Consumption Benzine or
'Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
l2 Spring Street. Sydney.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per clay; Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), 'Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. 314601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H, Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght,
Lieut.-Col, the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore,
R. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. Y. Douglass, Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
z Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 7$ p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ ~£ £ £ £
1928. .182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 171,011
1929. .215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 220,662
1930.. 70,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,168
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
♦Declared but not paid.
Towards the end of 1935 Broken Hill
Prop, acquired control by the purchase
of all the ords. —2,700,007 fully paid to
£l—in exchange for 750,000 of its own
shares. Indirectly interested in the ords.
through 8.H.P., the public has a direct
interest in the 1,000,000 1\ p-c. cum.
prefs.
Most of the ords. were originally held
by the Hoskins family, Dorman, Long
and Co. and Howard Smith, Ltd. Nearly
eight years ago the co. took over the
Hoskins steelworks at Lithgow (N.S.W.)
and transferred them to Port Kembla,
where they were largely added 'to. Before
the new organisation got properly under
way slump intervened. Pref. divs. were
paid to the end of 1930, and one 5 p.c.
ord. div. was handed out and another
held over; but by 1932 earnings had
dwindled to microscopic proportions.
Meantime, financial resources were con-
centrated in the direction of further im-
proving the plant. One of the most im-
portant additions to the works was a
plant for manufacturing black and gal-
vanised-iron sheets, for which there has
been an expanding market in Australia
lately. But to begin with the co. had
some difficulty in operating the new unit,
and earnings haven’t responded.
In 1934, when the construction trades
showed pronounced recovery, the co.’s
net earnings jumped £50,415, reaching
£120,774, more than twice the annual
pref. requirements. But, because of the
capital expenditure referred to, only a
half-year’s pref. div. was paid. Last
term profits dropped £40,765; the
£80,009 exhibited covered one year’s pref.
requirements (reduced to 5.8 p.c. for the
time being), clearing off arrears to May,
1932, and leaving £14,866 for reserves
(£410,865).
Last term an additional £70,874 was
spent on fixed assets, making total net
outlay under this head £1,017,112 in six
years:
1928. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £2,741,037 £3,473,507 £3,700,007
Sundry creditors 475,215 777,631* 649,937*
Fixed assets .. 2,277,672 3,723,497 3,794,371
Shares in other cos. 242,918 391,809 391,809
Stocks .. .. 494,361 266,897 269,009
Book debts .. 351,617 284,468 317,722
Investments, cash, etc. 21,695 17,864 16,692
♦ Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
The finance was provided from £226,500
of unpaid capital that came in, which
also enabled £127,594 to be wiped off
the debt. Stocks (£269,009) showed little
change, and appear a moderate figure ;
book debts moved up £33,254.
Shares in other cos., unchanged at
£391,809, chiefly represent scrip in South-
ern Portland Cement and Southern Blue
Metal Quarries. The cement co. com-
menced paying pref. div. arrears out
of last term’s profit.
The A. I. and S. prefs. carry 4s. Id.
div. arrears. These, the co.’s new chair-
man (Mr. Essington Lewis) says, will be
considered by the board when greater
profits are earned. Throughout Febru-
ary and March the steelworks were idle
owing to a strike, now settled.
After allowing for div. arrears, the
prefs. at 255. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c. on a 5.8
p.c. div. basis.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
, Dividends Total Re-
dan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Div. serves.
£ £ £
1926.. 190,078 lOp.c. 6&7p.c. 104,823 235,573
1927.. 217,261 10 „6&7„ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „6&7„ 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 „6&7„ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 230,366 10 „6&7„ 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226,265 9 „6& 7 ~ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „6&7„ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 181,967 8 „6&7„ 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126.487 8 „6&7„ 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 6* „6& 7 „ 91,410 893,502
1936.. 119,541 7$ „6& 7 „ 103,942 909,101
Expansion in the Brisbane area is limited
owing to operations of the City Council’s
undertaking; the co., however, continues
to spread its activities in country dis-
tricts to the north, west and south of
the metropolis.
Legislation has restricted the co.’s
earnings to 7 p.c. p.a. on actual capital
invested in assets used for the purpose
of electric supply (the capital is the
written-down value of the assets); out of
that 7 p.c. the co. must pay income tax.
That the co. was able to distribute 74
p.c. among ord. shareholders last term is
due to the fact that the amount invested
in the electrical undertaking is £452,000
more than total paid capital, made pos-
sible by the accumulated reserves.
Capital account totals £1,398,226 —in
20,000 6 p.c. non-cum. prefs., 125,000 7
p.c. cum. prefs and 1,253,226 ords. The
prefs. are preferential as to divs. only;
for capital they rank equally with the
ords. after deducting reserved profits.
Reserves aggregate £909,101, including a
renewals, replacement and contingency
fund (£599,589), D.C. plant renewals re-
serve (£140,760), taxation reserve
(£119,877) and other reserves totalling
£48,875. Franchises, in the books at
£62,723, are not regarded as an asset
herein.
After providing for maintenance, re-
newals, etc., the board put the year’s
profit at £71,742, down £24,573 on the
previous term. But additions to the
assorted reserves previously described
make up the £119,541 of profit shown in
the introductory table, an improvement
of £32,801 on the 1935 result. The 1 p.c.
added to the ord. div. called for an extra
£12,532.
The co. has plenty of cash and other
liquid assets, which cover liabilities more
than nine times:
1921. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. .. £740,648 £1,398,226 £1,398,226
Liabilities.. .. 42,200 61,532 58,978
Property, plant, mains,
etc 769,184 1,839,521 1,850,223
Stock .. .. 30,879 63,784
Cash, public securities,
etc. .. .. 27,629 484,308 454,703
Book debts, etc... 47,869 35,859 50,566
To put its idle funds to more profitable
use, the co. made application to supply
electricity to the whole of the Queens-
land North Coast area. If is also inter-
esting itself in districts just over the
border in N. S. Wales. The spread of
activities in this southerly direction in-
side the home State has already been ex-
tensive. Ipswich, towards the west, is
also linked up.
How much of the £740,349 set aside
for renewals, etc., and contingencies is
necessary to offset depreciation isn’t clear.
Fixed assets appear at cost, less value of
plant scrapped.
The co.’s Brisbane franchises are per-
petual, subject to the council’s statutory
right of purchase. A royal commission
is shortly to investigate the State’s elec-
trical resources and requirements. The
co. will present proposals.
The ords. are at 275. 6d., yielding 5.4
p.c. on a Vz p.c. div. basis. The 7 p.c.
prefs. return 4.8 p.c. at 295.
General Industries, Ltd.
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
. £ £ £ £ £
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 t 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20.586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,261* Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238. . 6,549
1935 75,630 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c, = 55,262 333 7,069
•Eight months,
tlncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. 13$ p.c.
§ Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
Though 10 p.c. ord. divs, have got back
into that table, they are worth no more
than 6i p.c. to old holders—7s. 6d. per
ord. share was written off in August,
1934. The co. merged the Metters and
K.F.B. interests in 1927, and paid for all
visible and £54,000 of inner reserves in
scrip. In the third year of the merged
enterprises, slump changed profits into
losses, and during the next four years the
prefs. received a half-term’s div. The
ords. went without for five years. In
the 1934 clean-up, accumulated losses
and £157,238 of book values were
written off. Profits of the operating cos.
in that term were enough to pay a year’s
pref. div. and show 10.2 p.c. on written-
down ord. capital. But pref. arrears had
to be wiped off.
Last term the subsidiaries earned
£96,327 (up £15,047), equal to 13.7 p.c.
on ord. capital (allowing for pref. re-
quirements). Only £77,934 was passed
on to General Industries, which admini-
strative exes, reduced to £76,391. The
10 p.c. p.a. was paid on the £105,382 of
new ord. capital as well as the old. Ord.
shareholders had welcomed this oppor-
tunity of putting up fresh capital (one for
five at par) in November last year.
The subsidiaries manufacture stoves,
baths, earthenware and other builders’
and plumbers’ fittings, and at present are
enjoying a large section of the Australian
market. Renewed building activity has
been responsible for the recovery in
turnover, and the future is governed to
a large extent by this same factor. Up
to the present it has shown little sign
of slackening, but, with interest rates
tightening and the housing shortage be-
ing overtaken, there will be limits to
profit-expansion in the immediate future.
On the other hand, there are indi-
cations that this co.’s board, with an eye
to the hard times of the past few years,
has calculated profits on a conservative
basis. Suggestive of the sales growth in
the last year or so is the recent acquisi-
tion by Metters of 10 acres adjoining the
Alexandria (Sydney) works, which, 14
acres in area, are now experiencing
growing pains.
Capital of the holding co. is £934,291
in 297,124 7 p.c. cum. £1 prefs. and
1,019,467 ords. of 12s. 6d. The ord.
register totals £637,167. In order to
satisfy the prefs. and pay 10 p.c. this
year, earnings of £84,513 are necessary—
£ll,Bl4 less than was exhibited by the
pups last term.
Balance-sheet figures of the operating
cos. show expansion:
1929. 1931. 1934 1935
Paid capital.. £904,531 £904,531 £722,170 £792,170
Sundry creditors 227,483 207,016 159,682 152,155
Freehold .. 400,665 890,508 303,128 315,908
Plant, etc. .. 350,453 340,937 288,524 327,688
Stocks .. 420,039 323,176 306,946 344,695
Book debts .. 232,184 116,205 178,864 173,119
Shares other cos. 35,723 35,723 27,350 27,631
Cash,. .. 576 1,329 586 557
Of the new capital raised by the parent
last year, £70,000 was applied in faking
up more scrip in the pups, and the rest
was lent to them. This went towards
reducing the outside debt, adding £12,780
to the book value of freeholds, £39,164
to plant, and carrying an extra £37,749
in stocks. Book debts were down £5745,
but they more than covered all liabilities.
Subject to previously-mentioned quali-
fications, the outlook for the future is
made encouraging by firm wool prices;
less favorable by the imports position
and tariff policy. The Federal Govern-
ment’s reverse on sanitary earthenware
tariff reductions may strengthen the co.’s
position.
At 19s. 6d. the ords. yield 6.4 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis; the prefs. return
5.6 p.c. at 255.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profit. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., ’26 .. 14,945 20 p.c. - 13,7u0 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 . . 15,227 20 „ „ 13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 .. 15,710 20 „ „ 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 .. 17,785 20 „ „ 13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ „ 13,750 4,049 170,943
July, ’2B . . 15,085 20 „ „ 13,750 1,335 172,278
Jan., ’29 .. 15,375 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 . . 15,527 20 „ „ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 „ „ 13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O . . 17,448 20 „ „ 13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l .. 3,281 14 „ „ 9,625 174,358
July. >3l .. 1,141 Nil 1,141 175,499
Jan., ’32 . . 6,747 8 p.c. = 5,500 1,247 176,746
July, ’32 . . 8,242 8 „ „ 5,500 2,742 179,488
Jan., ’33 . . 9,679 10 ~ „ 6,875 2,804 182,292
July, ’33 . . 14,346 10 „ „ 6,875 7,471 189,763
Transfer to inner reserves, £7471 .. 182,292
Jan., ’34 .. 13,258 12 p.c. = 8,250 5,008 187,300
Transfer to inner reserves, £5OOB .. 182,292
July, ’34 .. 11,921 12 p.c. = 8,250 3,671 185,963
Transfer to inner reserves, £3671.. 182,292
Jan., ’35 .. 14,313 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,063 188,355
Transfer to inner reserves, £6063 . . 182,292
July, ’35 . . 14,510 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,260 188,552
Transfer to inner reserves, £6260.. 182,292
Jan., ’3O .. 12,926 12 p.c. = 8,250 4,676 186,968
' Transfer to inner reserves, £4676.. 182,292
Revenue was maintained during the last
half-year, but overhead (mainly salaries
and wages) crept up £1867 ; this mainly
accounted for the drop of £1584 in the
net result (£12,926). For the full year
profits, after allowing £BOOO for taxa-
tion, were £1202 higher. The div. was
kept at 12 p.c.; £10,936 (as against £9734
in 1935) was whisked off to inner reserves.
The visible lay-by has remained un-
changed at £182,292 (now £44,792 larger
than paid capital) since Jan., 1933.
It is a well-ribbed produce, agency and
carrying business, scattered throughout
the back-country of N. S. Wales. For the
20 years to Jan., 1931, divs. averaged
approximately 13 p.c. Over the same
period £45,000 of gift scrip was handed
out, a special cash bonus of £25,000 was
paid, £55,195 was brought from hiding,
and another £20,000 of inner reserves
was used to write down the book value
of premises. After all that, for the first
time since 1895, shareholders were passed
over in the July, 1931, half-year. But 8
p.c. went out next year, 10 p.c. in the
next 12 months, and 12 p.c. for the
years to date.
Finances are snug:
f— -January ,
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities .. 131,331 78,239 80,065 87,988
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 51,236 47,209 51,039 56,205
Stocks .. 129,410 82,924 100,016 115,266
Book debts . . 217,913 173,004 152,059 151,761
McCulloch Co. 68,022 51,189 41,900 45,393
Cash & invest-
ments .. 7,943 48,914 72,735 61,731
Stocks (£115,266), up £15,250, showed the
principal movement last year. Fixed
assets also moved up £5166. Presumably
the amounts transferred to inner reserves
have been written off book debts
(£151,761), down £66,152 since 1930. This
asset alone is in excess of paid capital.
Liabilities (£87,988) rose £7923 last year,
but were well covered by liquids and
semi-liquids. Shares in and advances to
the McCulloch Carrying Co. figured at
£45,393, up £3493.
The fully-paid 50s. shares sell at
around £B. The yield on a 12 p.c. div.
basis is 3.7 p.c., and the backing £5 16s.
3d. in net tangibles.


A Sound Industrial Investment
HASTINGS DEERING SERVICE LIMITED
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING,
Engineer.
BANKERS:
UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
(Abridged Prospectus)
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD WILLIAM CHANCELLOR,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
SOLICITORS:
NORTON SMITH & CO.,
39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
FREDERICK GEORGE McKEW, Corner Wattle and Thomas Streets,
DAVID WILLIAM ROXBURGH,
Solicitor.
AUDITORS:
FLACK & FLACK,
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Capital £lOO,OOO in 100,000 Shares of £1 each, divided into 90,000 7% Cumulative
Preference Shares and 10,000 Ordinary Shares.
A first issue of 45,000 Preference Shares is offered for subscription on the following terms:—
1/- on APPLICATION
1/- on ALLOTMENT
and the balance in calls of not more than 1/- per share at intervals of not less than one month.
OBJECTS.
This Company has been formed to provide Motor-car owners
with a complete range of facilities for the maintenance, service
and supply of all motoring requirements.
Motorists are offered the opportunity of acquiring 7 per cent.
Cumulative Preference Shares, particularly reasonable service
charges, and certain participating rights on the basis of purchases
made from the Company.
Further Objectives under Memorandum and Articles of
Association.
To conduct any or all of the following activities:—
1 • To become dealers in FORD Cars and Trucks and other
FORD products, the distribution of which is held by Hastings
Deering, Limited, for the Metropolitan Area of Sydney, under
SOLE LICENSE AND AGREEMENT from the FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY.
LIMITED.
2. To become distributors of Exide Batteries, which distribution
for the State of New South Wales is held by the Deering
Engineering Company, Limited.
3. To carry on the operation of full-circle tyre remoulding and
retreading. Equipment for this activity is being installed by
Hastings Deering, Limited, and will be suitable for all types
of car and truck tyres.
To merchandise Machine-shop Work and all transport require-
ments which can profitably be handled in association with
A.E.C. (Australia) Proprietary, Limited. Mr. Hastings
Deering is Managing Director of A.E.C. (Australia) Pro-
prietary, Limited, having built up this activity over the last
ten years, and in his opinion the A.E.C. Machine-shop is
the most modern and completely equipped in Australia.
To build in Australia Diesel Engines and Trolley Bus Chassis
for industrial and traction purposes.
To purchase land and erect buildings suitable for special
service and/or to acquire and take up shares in any Company
formed for this purpose.
To contract to do bulk service work. To provide and operate
car-parking facilities.
To secure and hold any additional agencies which can be
profitably handled by the Company.
The Company will provide a proper relationship between the
motor-car user and a motor-car service company which is
in a position to supply specialised service facilities so that
both parties will reap the benefits of economical co-operation.
(The above is an abridged prospectus and contains only
extracts from the prospectus itself dated March 23, 1936,
which prospectus gives full details of the rights of the holders
of preference shares.)
PROSPECTUS containing full par-
ticulars of this attractive, co-operative
service will be supplied on application to
the Secretary, Mr. F. G. McKEW, care
HASTINGS DEERING, LIMITED,
GEORGE STREET WEST and
WATTLE STREET, SYDNEY.
Or Fill in this COUPON and MAIL
TO-DAY, without obligation, for
COMLETE PROSPECTUS.
Mr. F. G. McKEW,
Secretary,
HASTINGS DEERING, LIMITED.
George Street West and Wattle Street, Sydney.
SERVICE end UMITED mplete Prospectus of HASTINGS
NAME
DEERING
ADDRESS
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
,
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serveT" serves,
1926.. 20.381 720 7 p.c. = 1 2 f 8 51 6 flO
Added goodwill, £2750 .. ’ 2,’509
19 Added goodwill! p £2750 13,015 .. ? 2 ’219
1928. . 11,21° 720 Nil 10,520 i 0.739
Added goodwill, £2750 .. 7 989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = n,i62 3,294 loisii
1930.. 10,746 720 s „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
1931.. 976 720 Nil _ 14,026
1932.. Sof* 720 Nil 1 785 is m
Loss. ’ ’
19 Trans. bacTdebts reSve, £ll 007 ills
Profit. ’
1935;: 10.544 720 4 ip ;,°',T 744} 2 383 3335
1936.. 9,465 7204 „ „ 7’, 442 L 303 4!e38
Trading was better than those figures
suggest. Gross profit moved up £14,073
to £90,733. After charging ordinary over-
, , . ... 65 .
a exes., including some bad debts, the
net result was £4338 better at £17,882.
But heavier provision (£4917, up £2917)
was made for anticipated taxation, and
a further £3500 (up £2500) was set aside
lo ‘ doubtful debts. Thus the profit shown
in the introductory table (£9465) was
£1079 lower than in 1935. After hand-
ing the prefs. their trifle, the 4 p.c. to
th ® ordS ‘ W&S rC P eated ’ and £1303 WaS
carried to reserves (£4638, after deduct-
mg £ll,OOO of goodwill, not treated as
an asset herein).
There have been considerable bad
debts lately, the co. doing a deal of its
business on credit. Last term, in addi-
tion to an unspecified amount charged to
p. and 1., £2523 was debited to the re-
SerVC a B ainSt b °° k debtS ‘ H ° W . . lon f
profits will be subject to these additional
charges, probably a legacy of the depres-
sion, is a question which affects the future
°f ord. divs. The amount charged to
bd - reserve (cr , eated “ former years) last
tenn et l“ al , to a J shade under U -5 C J
on ord. capital, and the sum provided
out D f the p as t y ear ’ s profits for future
debits amounted to 2 p.c.
Business conditions have brightened in
Queensland, and, if the improvement
goes on spreading despite credit tighten-
ing, the retail trade should continue to
benefit. McD. and E.’s turnover at
balance day still showed signs of increas-
ing. Ord. shareholders averaged only
4.5 p.c. p.a. for the decade to 1930, and
1.7 p.c. since. Business, which swung
?hv y for°s?m?'v^r?'fow Sows signs
comiSr bad?
The co.'s finances have improved in
recent vears •
1930. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 53,000 50,250 49,500 48,750
Overdraft .. 77,843 65,000 60,000 eo.ooo
Sundry creditors 38,336 8,440 14,964 17,258
Land buildings
plant, etc!?.’ 131,730 128,204 128,091 128.562
Boo?” debts 120,079 86,282 90,398 106,121
°«isb, etc! 117,216 97,538 79,622 78,225
Total liabilities were up £1544 last term,
. ~ T, 4- i t> i,
S 8 sdded5 dded ? 1°± S - B °" k
debts (£61,419) dropped £3575. The
liquid position was comfortable enough,
T™ y A A , ~ .
The oris. are covered by 20s 6d. m
net tangibles, and may be picked up at
16s. 6d., yielding 4.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis.
The Primary Producers’ Bank Purchase
Purchase of the residuary assets of
the Primary Producers’ Bank by Cran-
weUs (Australasia); Ltd., has been com-
pieted. It was mentioned in B. 20/11/'35
that " should haTC “° Acuity
financing the deal,” although it meant
£200 ’? 00 „ in cash ' Tbe
forecast proved correct; ‘we have made
payment entirely out of the finances of
the COmnanV ” rennrt
company, C.ranW6llS report.
The co. adds that “collection of the
a ssets is proceeding at a rate even better
piucccumg ai a idle even oener
than our board antl cipated at the time
purchase—in CXCBSS of £lOO,OOO to
date ” ( April 2 )- “The members of the
board feel this is due to the fact that
* e prim n ry ?£
ducer m Australia has improved. The
outlook, thanks to recent rains and over-
seas conditions, is viewed with optimism.”
f ,
The directors of Cranwells have de-
clared an interim dividend of s„ c (ls-
per s | larc ) j paya bl e on April 30.
{“Wild Cat ” continued on next page.)


■■
Mm
sm
4*,
of Fine Car Features
FORD V-8 for 1936 has been designed and
built with one objective: To give the finest
motoring at the most reasonable cost. It has an
exclusive array of fine car features, each of which
is an essential part of the basic design of the
car. This 1936 V-8 is the product of the best
in modern scientific and engineering know-
ledge. It is safe because it has Safety Glass all
round, All-steel closed body, Super Safety
mechanical brakes and easier control of steering
and gear changing. It has unrivalled performance
with economy because it is powered with the
highly efficient V-8 engine. It is comfortable
because it has Ford Centre-poise riding, and it is
beautiful and satisfying because of its modern
style and luxurious fittings. There is a reason
for the world-wide popularity of Ford V-8
and that reason can be expressed in the one
word, value. Your Ford dealer will gladly
arrange for you to drive this splendid Y-8.
Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FOR
1036
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F 43.27 V
For Sale.
FOR SALE, Lode Tin Claim (“Ambrose
Lucky Last”), Kangaroo Hills. Shaft 70ft.,
drive 18ft. and drive 15ft. Produced 330 tons
ore, average per cent. tin. Estimates ore
valued £350 in sight. No walls located in
workings to date. Price £7OO.
A. AMBROSE,
C/o Byrne and Ahern,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone; 84356.
One of the most-talked-of develop-
ments in Victorian mining recently has
been the opening up of the 820 ft. and
920 ft. levels of the Central Nell Gwynne,
Bendigo. Two strong lines of faulting
have been discovered, associated with
which large bodies of gold-carrying ore
have been reported. Milling has shown
values of from 4dwt. to 84dwt., taken
from widths averaging about* 16ft. Com-
menting on the mine, Herbert Gepp,
a director, said last week that there were
“reasonable prospects of proving a con-
siderable tonnage of payable stone, but
several months must elapse before any
reliable forecast can be made as to the
ore reserves available.” There are 40,000
10s. shares paid to 9s. 9d. and 7000 fully-
paids. Following sales as low as 3s. in
February, quotes jumped to around 13s.
last week.
* * * *
Placer Development, which floated,
among others, Bulolo Gold Dredging in
1931, is believed to be negotiating for
the acquisition of Upper Watut Gold
Alluvials’ property (N.G.). Considera-
tion isn’t disclosed ; more will be heard
when Upper Watut’s chairman, Colin
McKay, returns from America. Alluvials
was formed by Mt. Lawson Syndicate in
1935 to acquire five leases—l7,ooo,ooo
c.y., average value 3s. 7d. —on the Upper
Watut River, Morobe goldfield; costs
were put at Is. On 3s. values and Is, 3d.
costs profits of £80,500 p.a. were spoken
of. The N.G. Government Geologist re-
ported favorably on the property in Sep-
tember, and in October, after inspection,
the chairman and a mining engineer were
confident of realising prospectus esti-
mates. But alluvial areas are difficult to
appraise until thoroughly tested ; hence,
apparently, the small market premium
on the scrip. The change-over will
not affect Alluvials’ development pro-
gramme, and production will commence
some time in August, when the civil
and hydraulic work is complete. New
generating machinery should reach the
field during the month. Last week Upper
Watuts soared from Is. 9d. to 9s. 3d.;
Placers advanced 15s. to £5 15s.
* * * *
“V.L.”; From March 9 to March 28
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, New Guinea,
treated 4150 c.y. for a return of 4s. lljkh
per c.y. (1370 z. of gold). Floods caused
temporary suspension of operations, and
then the sluicing plant had to remove
1090 yards of flood deposit.
* * * *
To Dec. 31 mining and development
expenditure on Mt. Kasi, Vanua Levu,
Fiji, was, at £21,263, £7745 in excess of
income (£13,518). Costs of plant-erec-
tion were higher than had been antici-
pated, and the abnormally wet season
necessitated wholly manual transport for
two months. Then the filter and thicken-
ing capacity of the mill, which set in on
July 1, proved inadequate ; in the result,
6373 tons ore, of a head value of 21890 z.
gold with 2130 z. in the tailings, was
treated. Ore reserves of 200,000 tons,
grade 10dwt., were mentioned some time
ago, but head value and high expenses
(£2 per ton) are at odds with share-
holders’ expectations. With larger-scale
operations things may be different. Early
last term Kasi Development, Ltd., was
sponsored to take over the balance of
Mt, Kasi’s prospecting rights; the con-
sideration was 40,000 ss. fully-paids.
Thus far the pup has spent £2240 for no
return. Of the parent’s £54,042 of capi-
tal, £36,080 is represented in plant and
mine property, £2063 in stores, £3660 in
cash and bullion. Preliminary expenses
and development cost £21,556. All figures
are in Fijian currency.
♦ . * * *
Mount Coolon (Q.), which contributed
substantially to the State’s gold yield of
£66,915 for Jan, and Feb,, has extended
its west drive 708 ft. (to 767 ft.) from the
main shaft in ore averaging 4.9dwt. over
40 inches, working three shifts. A “nice
lode,” 3ft. 6in. wide, has also been dis-
covered, and crosscutting is proceed-
ing to ascertain the lie. Milling opera-
tions for the past six weeks:
/ Two Weeks Ended
Mar. 3. Mar. 17. Max. 31.
Ore.. .. .. 2450 tons 1427 tons 2431 tons
Bullion produced.. 15750 z. 115207,. 14780 z.
Gold content .. 1085 oz. 7160 z. lOOloz.
Average (per ton .. B.Bdwt. lOdwt. B.2dwt.
Value (Aust.) .. £9454 £6248 £8702
No sands have been treated for some
time.
Golden Plateau (Cracow, Q.) crushed
3914 tons for 20160 z. gold during the
four weeks to March 28. Average yield
was 10.3dwt., as against 12.6, 13.5 and
16 dwt. in the three preceding periods.
Lower-grade ore is being crushed until
the new main shaft gives access to richer
material.
* * * *
Oriomo Explorations has bailed the
Inglewood United shaft at Gympie (Q.) to
over 1100 feet Timber in the old show
is fairly sound, though centres and
runners have had to be refixed. Clean-
ing up the old levels and putting down
air pipes will be undertaken immediately
unwatering is completed.
* * * *
New Gympie Gold Mines, which hit
on payable coarse gold at No. 6 reef,
has installed a 10-head stamper battery.
An extraordinary general meeting of
shareholders in Brisbane authorised a
4d. call.
* * * *
Lady Shenton’s ore reserves at July
22, 1935, were estimated at 50,040 tons
“positive” assaying 29.4dwt., probable
36,205 tons, and at grass 7623 tons going
about 18dwt. Positive ore reserves and
ore at grass should be worth nearly
£700,000 (Aust.) gross if values are what
they are estimated to be; from a share-
holder’s viewpoint, costs must be de-
ducted from those figures, and time taken
to win the metal is another factor which
discounts values. On the other hand,
there is the possibility of ore reserves
being added to. There has been a good
deal of muddling at the mine. The first
crushing was delayed for weeks. Resig-
nations have been announced since.
The plant has yet to show whether it
can handle the ore efficiently and econo-
mically. A. E. Baton’s report, due in
about six weeks, will be awaited with
interest.
* * * *
Edjudina, N.L. (W.A.), has a large
share issue—447,soo 45.-paids and 135,000
paid to 2s. Vendors and promoters
were issued 187,500 fully-paids, as well
as a small cash consideration. The pro-
perty promises cheap mining by open-
cut. After the concentrates are taken
from the strakes and corduroy matting,
recovery by the centrifugal separator is
reported to be, 96 p.c. Head value of
initial tonnages has been about 4ydwt,
owing to dilution as a result of opening
up the quarry. .The mine appears to
have possibilities. When overburden is
removed, s£dwt. to 6dwt. values are
anticipated, with working costs of 17s. a
ton. ■ ■ • - : '
The old Celebration, at Hampton
Plains (W.A.), is “under entirely new
management.” The first return is due in
May. H, E. Sizer, managing director,
who recently visited the mine, says the
mill is sound and that developments in
all levels and stopes promise, fulfilment
of prospectus estimates. The co. has
spent £60,000 in reaching production.
Milling power is obtained by power-
line from Kalgoorlie, 24 miles away.
A, E. Paton, metallurgist to South Kal-
gurli, estimates ore reserves as worth
6.56dwt. per ton; a £1 per ton profit is
expected.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development,
Ltd., in its quarterly circular announces
that ore treatment will soon com-
mence at the Moonlight (Wiluna, W.A.).
Encouraging results have attended pros-
pecting at Kintore, near Kunanalling,
over which an option was recently taken,
and payment of an additional purchase
instalment is recommended. A Linden
property is also shaping well, while
diamond-drilling on the Santa Claus, at
Bulong, is yielding satisfactory results.
Co. recently acquired an interest in a
reservation in Leopold Ranges, North
Wesfralia. A preliminary report says the
area justifies investigation.
jjs Jj< sfe ♦
London money may, be sought to
develop further the Nullagine gold con-
glomerates, Pilbara (W.A.), over which
C. S. Beale, chairman of Paringa, holds
an option. The conglomerates cover
a wide area, and resemble the Rand
“banket” deposits. They remained un-
worked for years after having been
mined on pick-and-choose lines by the
late A. E. Morgans.
* * * *
New Golconda (W.A.) shows a deficit
of £BBB7 for the year to Jan. 31. Ex-
penditure—which included wages £5676,
stores £1047 and salaries, directors’ fees,
etc., £lO25 —aggregated £10,426. Ore
reserves are valued at £30,000, expected
by the manager to be doubled within
two months. Provision of a treatment
plant is mentioned by the board. Cash
totals £17,171.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., work-
ing Associated Northern’s Iron Duke
lease, reports having struck good values
in a bore from the 1250 ft. level of the
North Kalgurli. It may be the down-
ward continuation of the rich Hinchcliffe
lode.
* * * ♦
At Hampton Consols’ annual meeting
directors reported that they had con-
tinued developing the mine at Westonia,
with varying success. Lack of funds had
checked progress, but the manager ex-
pected to cut the reef in No. 2 shaft in
another 12ft.
* * * *
Lake Austin-Eureka (W.A.), having
failed to turn a resurrected venture to
profitable account, is reconstructing.
* * *
Melbourne-controlled General Mining
Corp.’s directors, after inspecting several
properties, are concentrating on the Lady
Mary and Iron Duke leases at Norse-
man (W.A.).
* * * *
The co. holding the option over Ida
H. North, at Laverton (W.A.), has aban-
doned it to the owner, J. Panos, who has
also bought the machinery installed. The
shaft will be sunk to 200 ft.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ila-ssel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street. Sydnev.—Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
1935 General Catalogue.—Advt.


ARTIFICIAL DENTURES
or "plates” are one of the
triumphs of modern dentistry
P- 1( x : '
■HHIEi
m Wma , 9fflwS*B i
I ■* 3j^*^“s iiil‘
wsMsmzH mi
W H W SKtafTO,
:.‘0kl0 :
.
A. Jj=S
■
g*.
-FWK',
*SS&'£
i%g
.
KiMi
,
777
Who IS SO WELL QUALIFIED?
to perfect a real dentifrice as the dental
surgeon himself? Particularly a lifetime
specialist in pyorrhea like Dr. R. J. Forhan,
the_originator of
FORMAN’S.
Its A GREAT AmnJt
(all the same)
TO LOSE YOUR
NATURAL TEETH
"\Y7HAT a tragedy, what terrible words, when the
Dentist says: ‘7’m sorry, but they must ALL
come out.” The preparation, the dread, the period of
retirement . . . Social life a misery . . . Business almost
impossible . . . The Dentist does render marvellous help
with his workmanlike set of artificial teeth, but he would
rather use his skill earlier to prevent trouble, if you will
give him the chance to check up every six months.
Half the teeth lost are due
to Pyorrhea.
When people pass the age of 40, most of them will
find Pyorrhea entrenched in their systems. Four out of
five will get it sooner or later, and many will not know
it for five or ten years after it has begun to work down
from the gum line to the tooth sockets. Once established,
Pyorrhea cannot be cured by Forhan’s or any other
toothpaste ... So get ahead of the trouble instead. Start now to
protect and prevent.
Give your teeth and gums vigilant care twice daily. Use the
best dentifrice money can buy. When you investigate Forhan’s you
will find it is more than a toothpaste, more than you expect, perhaps,
in so simple a toilet preparation.
Use the dentifrice developed hy
a dentist.
Forhan’s is the discovery of a dentist, R. J. Forhan, D.D.S.,
who for 26 years specialised in the treatment of Pyorrhea. It is
unique in that it contains the benefits of an ethical preparation which
dentists are using throughout the world in the treatment of this dread
disease.
Don’t wait for danger signals. Start with Forhan’s to-day.
False teeth often follow
pyorrhea, which comes
to four people out of
five past the age of 40
8
m
m
M
o
m
Vs
m
mi]
iii
••
PS*
V. .
I
Forhan’s
for the gums
Small size, 2/-; Extra-large size, 3J-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd.. 131 Clarence Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE -IT PREVENTS
PYORRHEA


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gulnarbar”: Who invented the canvas
waterbag? Donald Gunn, a noted
Queensland identity, told a meeting of
the Brisbane Historical Society that the
man responsible was explorer
Thomas Mitchell. Mitchell had
a lot of trouble with the
wooden kegs which held the
water on one of his expedi-
tions. He devised the canvas
bag as we know it to-day, save
that he greased it with tallow.
Later it was found that, once
the canvas was wet, greasing
was unnecessary.
* * *
“Hadendowa”: Can- support
the contention of “Oont” (B.
18/3/’36) that there isn’t a real
riding camel in Australia.
These fliers are as hard for
an outsider to buy as an
Arab horse of a proved strain
—mares of the blood are, of course,
unobtainable even to-day. Only the
females are used, the best being
bred by the Bisharin of the Sudan, one
of the tribes which were the Mahdi’s
chief support. The Mehari is as different
in appearance from the ordinary camel
as a thoroughbred from a carthorse.
One Sudanese civilian, whose job took
him on long patrols of his huge dis-
trict, told me that either of his two rac-
ing camels could do their eighty miles a
day without turning a hair.
* * * *
“W.R.”: Emphatic objection to the
face-wash methods adopted by Hardie’s
drovers in “The Bridle Track” is due
from the Musterers and Tailers’ Union.
No expert like Dinny should waste a
pint of clean water by adding it to the
soup-thick soapsuds in which several
others have laved. He should cup
his hands while a mate sparingly trickles
in the fresh liquid. Many an efficient
morning sluice is had that way along the
arid stretches.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: National station 2BL is
very proud of the kookaburra record it
uses every morning to wake the leth-
argic ; but in praising the bird the an-
nouncer should make himself more
familiar with its habits. He declares
that its laughter is heard “a full hour
before the other denizens of the forest”
are astir. Though most of my life has
been spent in the bush, I’ve never been
able to award Jacko the early-rising
medal; W. Wagtail, magpie and Kelly
the Crow can give him points and a
beating. If I were forced to a decision,
I’d give the bun to Kelly. His sardonic
croak is heard with the first suggestion
of a paling star in the east; Jacko
generally waits till near sunrise for his
matutinal hilarity. Moreover, Jack isn’t
only a forest dweller ; to hear companies
of him you have to get out into the
Riverina, where the long, rollicking
reveille, rolling down the river reaches
through the sparse timber, is an unfor-
gettable experience.
* * * *
“Falstaff”: “West Darling” is off the
mark with both assumptions re the
spider’s practice of mummifying his
victim with web (B. 18 /3 / ’36). The idea
is to put an end to the fly’s frantic
struggles for freedom, for the hairy web-
spinner eats his victim immediately unless
he has just gorged, in which case it is
there preserved and ready for future con-
sumption. As for the fear of the cap-
tive wrecking the web, the captor
does that pretty efficiently himself while
smothering the fly.
* * * *
“Carlton”: Melbourne Zoo is up in
the air over its success in palming off an
orphan wallaby on a kangaroo doe as
her own offspring. The doe had an out-
of-pouch youngster at foot, and when a
half-developed wallabette was brought to
the Zoo by a conscience-stricken motorist
who had run over its mamma the Zoo-
logists tried the experiment of inserting
the infant in her pouch. The lady seemed
a bit puzzled for the first few days,
especially when the changeling was re-
moved from the pouch for hand-feeding
and returned. However, she soon settled
down, and the joey is growing fast. Her
legitimate offspring does not seem so
ready to accept the status quo, and hangs
round watching tbe feeding operations
with a nasty look in his eye. Also, the
keepers are wondering what will happen
when the lady’s husband discovers he is
the ostensible papa of an unmistakable
wallaby, but that bridge is not being
crossed until the parties come to it.
* * * *
“Newtown”; “Fernie’s” chicory flowers
(B. 11/3/’36) must bring back memories
of France to thousands of Diggers, for
the plant, which belongs to the dandelion
“ What's your address?”
“Young Mens Christian Association.”
family, is grown extensively there, chiefly
for the leaves, which are very bitter. Most
of the chicory used for mixing with
coffee comes from Belgium and Holland,
and is prepared from the root, which is
white, fleshy and carrot-like. When dug
up the root is washed, cut into small
pieces, kiln-dried until shrivelled up to
about a quarter its original weight. It is
afterwards reduced to nibs and roasted,
then ground into powder. I got myself
info disgrace one day in Belgium by ask-
ing m’sieur why they went to such
trouble to ruin their coffee with it.
* * * *
“Leirum”: The strange spectacle of a
mob of northern island Binghis to a
man sporting Yankee horn-rims was
explained by a trading station having got
in a supply of unpowered spectacles.
Binghi, as ever, rushed the new toy ; but
after purchase there was bitter complaint
that even when adorned by the headlights
they “no savee talk talk paper any
better” than before. Quite illiterate
before the specs, they expected to be in-
stantly rendered erudite by their don-
ning, because “Misshnary he plenty
savee Bible when he put on head glass.”
* * * Jfc
“Findy”: So the abos. at Pt. Lincoln
used to chase their fish ashore (B.
25/3/’36)? Lascar seamen whom I once
watched collecting a “feed” in Pt. Pirie
(S;A.) had a much more scientific plan.
I give it, gratis, for those fishermen who
can’t sport nets. Gear and man-power
required: one length of stout rope, with
half a dozen hefty men at each end.
Method: Advance quietly into shallow
water and wait for a school of “tiddlers”
to come inshore. Walk slowly shore-
ward rounding up the school by drag-
offig the rope as a net. A final spurt in
ffie shallows results in a batch of the
less wary or less active small fry being
washed high and dry on the beach. But
don’t let the Fisheries Inspector catch
y OU i
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: There is no novelty in
the announcement of T. C. Rough-
ley, of the Sydney Technological Museum,
that the flesh of the marlin swordfish
is extremely palatable, and that the oil
from its liver is particularly rich in vita-
mins. Various species of swordfish are
standard foods in America, Newfound-
land and other countries. Swordfish liver
oil is a commercial product and a recog-
nised medicine m America and Japan.
The best-flavored species is the broad-
bill, which is a first-rate food fish
although rarer than the marlins. Bac
marlms of from 301 b. to 601 b. taken off
Mooloolaba (S.Q.) have brought as much
as Bd. per pound in the Brisbane market,
through heavier ones seldom fetch more
than Id. The flesh is of delicate texture,
and possesses a pleasant, sweetish taste,
*** . *
“Marlinspike”: Those misguidedly
kind-hearted folk who recently objected
to swordfishing on the ground, among
others, that the creatures are useless as
food would be highly unpopular in Nova
Scotia. One of the island’s staple indus-
tries is the capture of swordfish, usually
by harpooning them from a “pulpit,” a
sort of crow’s nest on the end of the
bowsprit. For 1935 the catch amounted
to 2,220,000 pounds, with a landed value
of nearly £30,000. A large part of it
went to the United States, returning a
market value of more than 156,000
dollars.
* * * *
“Kingsley Temple”: “What,” asked
the English membah of the car party on
the road from Cairns to Kuranda (N.Q.),
“is the reason that so many planks are
loose on the bridges?” “They’re all kept
loose in Queensland,” said the driver.
“It’s so’s when the cars go over the
planks rattle and all the white-ants are
shaken out.”
* * * #
“Peter Bad English”: I agree with
“Another Golden Miler” about the
danger of careless handling of gelignite
(B. 26/2/’36). I once watched a youth
pinching off pieces as big as a pea, and
striking them on a piece of railway iron
with a gympie hammer. A series of
small explosions were the result until
he tried a piece a little bigger, leaning
over the hammer at the same time. The
blow on the forehead that he got from
the hammer stretched him on his back
for five minutes.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Mick, wood-and-water
joey on the station, had just come
into proud possession of an extremely
second-hand .32 repeater when the boss
detailed him to kill a rooster for the
homestead’s Sunday dinner. The fowls
ran wild about the place, and Mick
snaked to within 50 yards of the quarry,
took steady aim and fired. A fat old hen
two feet to the right of the cock was
startled to see the top half of her bill
fly off; the deflected slug went side-
ways through the only tank containing
rainwater. Mick, conscious that some-
thing had slipped, worked the lever,
aimed to the left of the now suspicious
dinner, and fired again. An old horse-
shoe flew info the air and something
whined through the pepper-trees ahead ;
there was a crash of falling glass, and
the boss’s family burst from the home-
stead and took cover. Gravely the boss
walked down to Mick, held out the rem-
nant of the station cat and “Well,
you might as well pluck it, too!”
* * * *
“Pick”: Either penguins are the most
trustful of creatures or they are
naturally devoid of fear. Recently they
arrived in unusual numbers along the
Portland coast (Vic.). Each morning,
with calm assurance and effrontery, they
waddled up the cliffs to forage the pig-
sties and seaside hen yards. They in-
vaded cottages and clustered the veran-
dahs, raided gardens and dived into
wells. Brooms had to be flourished to
expel them when they filed into the
kitchens or administered a scare to
babies in bedrooms. With persistent
resolution they declined eviction from
week-end camps and picnic dinner-cloths.
H-. * * *
“Colon”: Those liquefied dentures of
“Gummy’s” (B. 4/3/’36) remind me.
The dentist’s note said, “Sterilise before
inserting.” To a cow-cocky that meant
one thing only—boiling water. When
he saw his brummy molars losing their
contours Dad made a grab and jambed
them in his mouth. He had to live on
his staple product for a week, but he
reckoned a blistered mouth was easier to
bear than the cost of anew set.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Hardly necessary to go
to Mary Queen of Scots to prove that
flesh of venomous snakes is harmless
tucker (B. 18/3/’36). Binghi has been
proving that for countless
ages, and he has many imi-
tators in other parts of the
world. Also, whoever drew
up that menu for Mary was
guilty of tautology when he
wrote “vipers and adders.”
They are the same, “adder”
being the popular name for
Britain’s solitary viper.
“0.-t.”: “Core’s” plain turkey (B.
18/3/’36) that flew half a mile after
being shot through the heart was helped
by the impetus of its flight. I shot at a
fox on the edge of Little Prill Lake (s.-w.
Riverina, N.S.W.) dnd it cleared into
some scrub. Returning that way a half-
hour later, crows led me to a spot on a
hop-bush plain nearly a mile from the
lake. That fox had taken the .32 slug
in the heart (it went clean through the
body) and forced its way through the
scrub, over a sandhill and into the hop-
bush! As for heartbeats after death,
I’ll back a Murray cod’s organ to beat
anything ever hatched.
“Stan”: That plain turkey’s heart
that beat on a stone for an hour and a
half (B. 18 /3 / ’36) had nothing on the
tail of a big red kangaroo I shot
on the Kowmoung Ranges (N.S.W.).
Knowing the flesh to be a trifle gamy
without some sort of preparation, I
dropped the tail in a tin of well-salted
water and covered the lot with boards
and stones to discourage any midnight
marauders. About an hour later there
was a mighty commotion in the vicinity
of our next day’s dinner, and grabbing
our guns my mate and I hastened to
repel the supposed invader. I admit
that my scalp prickled at what I saw
when my mate flashed his torch. Our
Too tail was attempting to climb out of
the tin in convulsive leaps, beating the
water to a yeasty red in its struggles. Cold
reason assured us that here was some
simple reaction of nerve centres and com-
mon salt; but as a component of to-
morrow’s stew that tail had lost its savor.
* * * m
“Bray Rock”: Victorian fishermen are
up in arms against Professor Wood-
Jones’s exoneration of seals as a threat
to the fishing industry. The professor
suggests that they prefer crabs to fish.
A little personal experience with barra-
couta towlines off any seal rookery would
convince him that they certainly like
’couta. I have seen them pull a fish off
the hook, swim up close to the boat, and
eat the stolen goods within 20 feet of the
cursing fisherman. Absence of fish from
stomach contents in a few specimens is
not conclusive, as they own remarkable
digestive powers. A rookery at the breed-
ing season, just before the pups learn to
fend for themselves, would fully en-
lighten their apologist on the subject of
seal dietary. But it is to be hoped that
the horrors of the old seal-fur trade will
never be repeated, however much they
increase. .
BILL.
Bill admits he isn’t clever, but he saves himself
by never
Saying yes, or even ever saying no;
His one answer to your chatter, true or not
it doesn’t matter,
Is “I wouldn’t be surprised if that were so.”
If the thunder peals are crashing, and the first
big raindrops splashing,
And you tell him there’ll be rain before
to-night,
Bill will pull himself together with a “Well,
it’s funny weather,
But I wouldn’t be surprised if you were
right.”
Earnest salesmen who have met him, after
wasting hours to get him
Sign an order, for he’d never bid them go,
Leave poor Bill in desperation at his one
reiteration,
“Well, I wouldn’t be surprised if that were
so.”
And when Gabriel’s trump is rumbling I can
hear St. Peter grumbling
About some poor soul who’s standing mute
and still:
“Why this earthly hesitation? Can’t he choose
his destination?”
And I wouldn’t be surprised if that were
Bill.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


“Kerriki”: It all started over the ques-
tion of too many eggs for breakfast, and
Old Bob ended by stringing himself up to
the harness sapling with his hobble-strap,
whether in earnest or by way of a
demonstration remains unsolved. By
the time his tongue saw daylight, the
strap broke and let him down with a
bang that drew the boss in to investigate.
He rubbed a bit of breath back into the
old chap, and Bob sat up and took
notice. His roving eye fell on the busted
hobble-strap, and remained there as if
hypnotised. “Spare me days!” he whis-
pered hoarsely, while his face turned
paler. “To think that a man’s trusted his
blasted life to a rotten bit of leather like
that hobble on and off in the Dry for
close on 40 years!”
* * * *
“Spud”: Hailstones (B. 19/2/’36)?
During a storm in south Westralia last
year hailstones punched holes in iron
roofs and killed sheep in the paddocks.
A prize cow was knocked senseless by
one bigger than a football. That bit of
ice weighed four pounds and took the
best part of a week to melt away.
* * * *
“Coif”: A quaint phase of the
common law of England was aired in
a N.S.W. country town the other day.
A landowner prosecuted a man for
stealing a number of rabbit-skins. The
accused had gone on the prosecutor’s
property and poisoned 141 rabbits, which
he skinned. The Beak held that the
charge could not lie since rabbits were
ferce natures, wild and ferocious beasts
walking the wilds and owning no man
as master. He convicted the defendant
for trespass, however. In England,
where most manors carry the right of
chase and warren for the occupier, the
rabbit is not a wild beast, but a domes-
tic creature like the house cat or the
barnyard chook, and gaol waits for the
man illegally dealing with him.
* * * *
“Dominic”: A favorite stunt among
fiction writers is the tying up of the vil-
lain’s victim with rope, probably a
clothes-line or something of the
sort. But does anyone in real
life ever make a decent job of
tying a person up with rope? It
can be done, of course, by using
yards and yards until the victim
is trussed up like a mummy ; but
for real practical work give ms
just the quantity of first-class
linen fishing line as can be car-
ried in a waistcoat pocket. A
few turns of that around wrists
and bare ankles will hold a Sam-
son. Another useful binder is
the tarry twine, miscalled spun-
yarn, used largely on mines for
repairs to air hoses and such.
Back in the old Golden Mile
days when battery robbery was
of weekly, and sometimes of
nightly, occurrence some very
neat tying used to be done with
that stuff. The more the victim
struggled the tighter it got, and
it was just as well to stay quiet,
and hope not to contract pneu-
monia, until morning and help
arrived. But, of course, if the fiction
writer’s victim wasn’t able to free him-
self that would generally be the end of
the yarn, wouldn’t it?
* * * *
“L.E.T.”; The sudden adoption of a
grotesque attitude will often frighten a
fierce dog. Recently I had to cross a
narrow bridge, and a huge Alsatian
appeared at the other end, his attitude
distinctly menacing. I fixed my eyes
steadily on him, crouched down low with
my hands on my knees and executed
what I hoped would appear a wild, bar-
baric t J ance> The big fellow’s bellicose
look turned to one of astonishment;
then he looked puzzled and finally loped
off with his tail between his legs.
“He used to be a garage mechanic."
“Dusty”: Is there any place where
bees won’t get? During the wool-carting
season a Lake Cargellico (N.S.W.) lorry-
owner arrived at the railway after a 30-
mile run with his load ; underneath a
projecting bale, and hanging where the
dust would almost suffocate them, was a
large swarm.
* « * *
“Ock Ulist”; “The O’D.” (B. 11 /3 / ’36),
in cracking up the wonderful capacity of
the bushman’s optics, has lost sight of
the real facts. The bushman often suffers
from disabling errors in eyesight (conse-
quent on many things connected with his
occupation), but as it is natural in all of
us to try to get clear definition we make
an intra-ocular effort at readjustment by
prolonged contraction of the ciliary
muscle —has “The O’D.” never seen a
bushman screw his eyes up?—the result
being fatigue of the whole system. So,
if one organ (the visual) takes up more
than its fair share of our bodily energy,
other organs suffer. Bad-tempered, ill-
conditioned and hard-swearing bushmen
have to thank faulty eyesight for their
irritability. Somnolence is also another
sign of faulty eyesight—and that is why
a great many bushfolk nod over a news-
paper or a book. Regarded from the
THE NEW HAND TRIES OUT THE ADZE.
point of view of optical instruments, the
eyes of most of us (including the bush-
folk) are fantastically inaccurate.
* * * *
“Stockleigh”: A farmer near Esk (Q.),
rushing in from the yard during a howl-
ing gale, pulled open the back door, and
at the same moment the opposite door
of the detached kitchen burst open. The
tablecloth bellied out like a parachute,
and that cocky got his evening meal,
which had just been put out, exactly one
second later—right down his frontis-
piece.
* „ 0
“Billy See”: Whilst passing over a
level crossing on the W A. goldfields a
valuable mare took fright at the shrieks
of an oncoming locomotive, reared,
caught a hind hoof between the rail and
the heavy guard and tore the hoof right
off. The owner sent for a gun, but a
near-by publican begged him to spare
the neddy and bought her for £l.
After washing with lysol and water
he dressed the damage with lard and
zinc oxide, added an ample pad of
cotton wool and plenty of bandage, and
covered with a couple of ore bags, tied
on tightly and saturated in Stockholm tar.
Within a month a new hoof was well on
the way. The publican smiled at his bar-
gain. “Horse sense. Any one ought to
know that a horse’s hoof is much like a
human fingernail: painful to have torn
off, but given a little clean treatment
quite capable of growing again.”
* * * *
“Tom-tom”: No need for “Hamer”
(B. 26/2/’36) to suppose anything so
melodramatic as a vendetta between two
wagtails and a cat to account for the
birds’ tormenting the defenceless feline.
They were merely pulling pussy’s fur for
use in lining their nest, I have seen wag-
tails harass our cat out of the back
garden on to the verandah, and from
there to the sanctuary of the kitchen.
Puss seemed to realise that she stood no
chance against the nimble little wagtail,
which is Nature’s object-lesson in per-
petual motion and varying equilibrium.
“Fore Royal”: Many old bushmen
assert that the death-adder carries a
deadly sting in its tail. I had always been
sceptical till recently when I killed an
outsize in adders, and noticed a thin,
single-sided barb, an inch long, protrud-
ing from the underside, |in. from the tip
of the tail, so that the point of the barb
extended a fraction beyond the tail tip.
This barb was very hard, sharp as a
needle and grooved along the inner side
from base to tip. Along this groove
flowed a yellow, viscous liquid which
dripped from the barb point. Is there
any truth in the sting theory? If not,
what is the barb’s use?
❖ jfc
“Cowan”; “Amy,” a koala kept by
C. A. M. Reid at his Lone Pine sanc-
tuary, Brisbane, holds a couple of
world’s records. She has been in cap-
tivity since caught'
as a cub during the
1921 open season
—a longer period
than any other of
her tribe —and she
is the first koala in
captivity to be-
come a great-
grandmother. De-
spite that she is
still breeding, and
has had three babies in the last four
years. Reid, claimed to be the first man
successfully to raise native bears in cap-
tivity, says that since “Amy” has been
at the sanctuary she has never had a
drink.
* *
“Saddle-flap”: The disease that
“Gryllus” assumes is killing off the
water-rats (B. 26/2/’36) is probably that
known as homo sapiens. If you live
where these rodents are thick, you’ve
got to destroy them. Once they find
your riverside camp you can’t keep any
food out of tins. On a Murray River
station where I was, they used to come
up a 60ft, bank and across a chain of
garden to raid the butcher’s shop, more
than once smashing the fly-wire to get
in. There, too, fishermen could not
long-line or tether fish if a rat had a
home in the near vicinity. Until six
years ago the skins were worth up to
4s. 6d. each (and higher for the golden
species with the black vertebral stripe).
Even now at a third of the price they
are good money if plentiful. They are
very easily trapped.
* * *
“Murlonga”: Speaking of the once-
popular bush expressions, does “Old-
timer” (B. 4/3 / ’36) remember the
“Barcoo shout” when, though drinks
were a bob a time, a man could
claim three for half-a-crown? And how
the publican did close down on
those half-dollars! They never handed
them out as change from the “peter.”
Shin-plasters are still the vogue in
far-west Q.; 30 . years ago, though,
in all good faith I handed one over the
bar at a Blackall pub, and the barmaid
nearly passed out when I maintained it
was good money. What about Red
Jack, the famous man-woman of the
back-country? She is only a memory
now, if not a myth. How many of the
present generation would know how to
load a Barcoo pistol? In these days,
when so-called stockmen haul suitcases
from cars, instead of swags from pack-
horses, they think “nap” means a game
of cards or a doze, instead of blankets.
They’d think a “twanger” was a jazz
musician on the movies—we knew him as
an opium addict.
* * * *
“Groper”: Touching on early mater-
nity in the finny world (B. 4/3/’36) the
same thing applies to crabs. Full-grown
males in W.A. estuaries frequently attain
to a claw span of 26in. and over, yet I
have seen the duty of race continuity
being attended to by couples so small as
to scarcely cover the palm of one’s
hand. Another curious thing—at the be-
ginning of the season the catch will be
exclusively of males, which continue to
hold the waters until full grown. They
then suddenly disappear, their places
being taken by myriads of tiny females,
with a sprinkling of about 2 per cent, of
males equally small. It is to these, ob-
viously, that is entrusted the duty of
carrying the race over to the next season,
their progeny being the huge males and a
sprinkling of moderately sized females.
These early-season females, however, can
be caught only by means of a long seine
net; unlike the males, who are vora-
ciously hungry, they will not come at a
bait. End-of-the-season females, on the
contrary, are famishingly hungry, and
can sometimes be drawn right out of the
water still clinging to the bait. Evidently
they have to obtain double nutriment—
for their own growth and also for that
of the embryos which they will ultimately
hatch out.
BALLADE OF BATMAN’S PANTS.
“Mr. W. B. Mclnnes asks what sort of trousers
did Batman wear.”
The gods look down on our human ways
And view with many a smile and sigh
What each man suffers and each man says
As a hundred years like a dream go by;
But the artist sees with his inward eye
That the best things go to the batman’s share,
While the officers fall to the rear and die:
So what sort of trousers did Batman wear?
Did they stand alone in the good old days
When no man murmured or reasoned why
But manned the guns and the bullock drays
And sold whatever another would buy?
Did they count the cost of a purpose high
If the pay was steady and meals four-square
And the village damsels exclaimed “Oh my!
What sort of trousers did Batman wear!”
For the artist ponders on human traits
That the world will willingly not let die,
And the dusky chiefs with their waifs and
strays
Were all untailored and trouser-shy,
So he would not into their secrets pry
Nor the innermost seat of their pants lay bare,
Preferring to show to the public eye
What sort of trousers did Batman wear.
L’Envoi.
Prince, there are questions that you and I
Must ask in vain of the empty air,
But he must know ere his paint runs dry
What sort of trousers did Batman wear.
VICTORIA.
ERNEST FYSH.


HITS
LYS
&
PROOF
MUMI IUW)
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
£T\ <&■
i> ! -
’ ' i’; 4 55W ***' •
V,
>4/ ■ • *
«.*il ’ ’ .' j '4
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, S/dney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Meat in London.
The report of the Commerce Depart-
ment suggests that Australia is at last
getting its feet on the ladder in the
export-lamb trade. Judges expressed the
opinion that Tasmanian lambs shown
recently by Weddel and Co. were “super-
lative” and not excelled by the best
Maoriland carcasses. But the same
cannot be said of mutton:
It is a sad reflection on Australian
mutton that between the best Australian
wethers and the best Maoriland there
should be a margin of 2d. per lb. or
more in favor of the latter. Argentine
mutton, too, enjoys a substantial prefer-
ence.
Neither is there much to be said for
Australian beef yet awhile, for the Com-
merce officials glory in the fact that “it
is rather better quality and in good con-
dition,” so that “hinds were quoted at
•fd. under Argentine hinds,” while on
other occasions the mar-
gin between Argentine
and Australian hinds was
Id. and more per pound.
Britain’s import of
beef during 1935 was
10,807,000 cwt., a decrease
of 156,000 cwt. on 1934.
Of the lot, 78 p.c. was
chilled and 15 p.c.
frozen. Chilled increased
by 238,364 cwt., while
frozen, which hitherto
has been the staple of
the Australian trade, fell
off 445,000 cwt. Argen-
tine supplied 65 p.c. or 7,057,757 cwt, a
falling off of 109,000 cwt, since 1933.
Australia supplied only 12 p.c. The total
value of the beef trade was £17,163,000.
It is obvious that more than up-to-
date works such as are being established
throughout Australia by a reconditioning
process and modern chilled shipping
space will be needed to push the Argen-
tine out of the market. Australian
growers must begin to breed to demand
—a comparatively small, young, com-
pact beast of “fat-lamb” quality. Our
beef quality on the average is 50 p.c.
below average lamb quality.
Maoriland supplied 53 p.c. of the
6,752,000 cwt. of mutton and fat lamb
-—the total was worth £17,560,000 —Aus-
tralia 26 p.c. and the Argentine 13 p.c.
Maoriland also led in the pork market
-—Denmark’s supremacy has gone —with
46 p.c., Australia and the Argentine, each
with 17 p.c., being next. Frozen pork
imported alone was worth £2,509,000, but
bacon imports are worth £30,000,000, of
which Australia gets little. The gross
figures are startling—England last year
bought over £66,000,000 worth of beef,
mutton, lamb and pork products, leaving
out livestock.
The Commerce report says:
In the latter part of the year Aus-
tralian chilled beef generally lacked
quality, and its appearance and condition
suffered by comparison with earlier ship-
ments Consignments were not always in
the best condition, apart from the loss
incidental to the carriage of beef of in-
ferior quality. This was doubly unfor-
tunate in that the best beef of the year
was disposed of during the Brazilian
season. On the termination of the latter,
the falling off in quality has apparently
debarred Australian chilled beef from par-
ticipating to the full in the improved level
of prices.
Maoriland, however, is moving up in
the beef trade. Its shipment of show
beef this season was an “object lesson.
It was said of the two-year-old 6041 b.
Angus-Shorthorn cross steer carcass,
which won both in London and Maori-
land, that “it would be difficult to find
a better.” Some experts pronounced it
superior to the Smithfield champion car-
cass. And it is pointed out that in the
U.K. market the Angus type is as pre-
eminent as the Southdown among sheep.
At Smithfield Angus crosses won the
first four prizes.
The report remarks on the “wide recog-
nition given to the improved standard
of Australian lamb” and the special dis-
plays which have been made in many
high-class shops. It is declared “signifi-
cant that retailers, who until recently
“There you are , Mabel. I TOLD you what it'd be if she Went down to
that‘Sydney Show."
were reluctant to handle Australian
lambs, now say that in their season
they are preferable to Maoriland’s.”
Bovine Pleuro-pneumonia.
“Silky Bag”: Pleuro is now known to
be caused by a mould growth and not
a bacterium. As the mould gives rise to
filter-passing spores —the smallest of
organisms—it is dangerous. The tiny
germs are breathed out of the lungs and
float about in the air for some time be-
fore they settle on the ground. Even
then they may be stirred up in the dust
about cowyards.
The disease these days mainly affects
dairy cattle.
A farmer can tell pleuro satisfactorily
only after a post-mortem, when a char-
acteristic marbling of patches in the
lung show out, if cut across. The best
scheme is to suspect the disease if more
than one animal in the herd shows pneu-
monic symptoms about the same time.
Have a blood test taken and kill out
all reactors. There is compensation for
this in most States.
Serum treatment of pleuro is possible,
but only advisable in the case of valued
stud animals, as cure is both long and
costly.
When reactors have been removed
from an infected herd, the sanest move
is to vaccinate the balance. A live vac-
cine has been developed which im-
munises 80 cows in each 100 under severe
attack conditions. It is obtainable from
the C.5.1.R., after diagnosis by their
inspectors, which herd-owners should
never hesitate to obtain if they suspect
the disease.
Tallarook and Dwalganup.
“Seenitall”; Tallarook is a new late
strain of sub. clover which flourishes in
s.-eastern 23in. rainfall areas. It forms a
dense and luxuriant pasture which keeps
green for at least a fortnight longer than
any other known strain.
It is being prepared for market for the
first time this year from plots at the
Burnley School of Agriculture, Vic., and
grows well on hillsides.
It grows rapidly and responds quickly
to super.
Dwalganup is a Westralian early strain
suitable to a 21in. rainfall area with
short seasons. Around Wagga (N.S.W.)
it is giving good results in choking out
skeleton weed.
Sowing Pastures.
“Hortus”: This is the best season to
experiment with grasses. Don’t worry
about not having ground ploughed, har-
rowed and rolled. Give surface culti-
vation a trial —in effect, by harrowing
or cultivating and sowing at the one
operation with a combined drill and cul-
tivator. Thus you can graze your pad-
docks until the commencement of the
autumn rains. If you cut a strip 6ft. or
Bft, wide, large areas may be cultivated
and sown in one or two operations. On
one place in the New England (N.S.W.)
1250 acres of virgin native pasture have
been sown down by this method.
The following mixture was used; 1
bushel oats, 41b. to 61b. perennial rye,
21b. subterranean clover ; of super,
completed the scheme. The yield of
grain from the oats covered all the ex-
penses of the operation.
Some graziers say that they like the old
method best. It’s the only way of mak-
ing certain of a firm seedbed. You'll
get the latter all right with surface culti-
vation. The normal virgin pasture has
about 2in. or 3in. of soil containing good
organic matter. Under this is generally
a pretty firm bed.
Of course, certain soils may not re-
spond to shallow cultivation. Try a small
patch and see result. If successful, there
is a big saving in everything concerned.
Apart from cheapness, it saves the native
grasses, and that’s a point worth watch-
ing. The old scheme of ploughing fairly
deep loosens a great many of the grass
roots, and the native pasture dies out.
There are some good native grasses, and
it’s a pity to lose them. Broadcasting has
its merits, but it will never give the same
evenness of distribution as the drill.
When sub. clover is well established,
don’t worry about its seeding. It will
seed as much as required, even if grazed
fairly regularly. It’s quite sensible to
take stock out, before clover has taken
hold properly, to get a complete cover of
pasture. Don’t let the clover get too
thick and rank or stock ailments will
follow. That is, unless you intend to cut
it for hay.
Handling Sheep.
“Warramulla”: A lot of energy is
wasted by many stockmen in their efforts
to hold a sheep. A frightened beast will
use every means to escape, and force is
brought to bear to restrain it. Far better
just to hang on, and let it have its
plunge until it steadies up for a breather.
Then, like a good wrestler, take what-
ever hold is offering.
According to some authorities, the
“long blow” of the shearer eventuated
in this manner. A sheep kicking strenu-
ously for an old-time blade man laid
itself flat on the shearing board, and
he reckoned he’d have a go at it
there —and the long blow had its birth.
(Others assert that Jimmy Power, of
Queensland, later killed in the Boer War,
originated it, owing to a boil preventing
his holding the sheep up for the
old style.)
Sheep are often needlessly
knocked about, simply because
the catcher relies on brute
strength. The simplest way to
handle a jumbuck standing in the pen
with others is to approach from the near
side, placing the left arm under the
neck, the right hand across and grasping
the wool about the oft flank. Kick the
near-side hind leg from under the sheep
and draw it back on its haunches. By
catching the two front legs, the jum-
buck can then be dragged wherever re-
quired without any undue kicking or
straining.
Another quick and effective way is
to sidle along the near side and grab
the jumbuck by the nose with the left
hand. Push the head around to the off,
at the same time pulling the hindquarters
to you with the right. The sheep lies
over in a natural position to be handled.
Many of the stronger catchers and
shearers grab the sheep about the head,
press down on the hindquarters with the
right hand and force the animal to the
ground or board. With ewes, this
method can have serious results, as the
sheep goes down with both hind legs
apart in an unnatural position.
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


mm
I ■
■
■ V S
liqueur
it must be White Horse
hy, I knew it the moment
I tasted it, there’s no mistak-
ing White Horse. I believe I
could tell it in the dark”
• • •
Who could be wrong when a
whisky is as fine as a fine
liqueur! Breathe that rich
fragrance, just faintly peated.
Feel that soft smoothness —
velvet and dew. Wait for the
glow that suffuses your being,
that wonderful warmth with-
out fire. There is only one
whisky like this. It must be
White Horse .
WH3B-36
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
fd


Is THIS YOUR STYLE ?
Different styles for different
people, but this one is sure to
please. Strong and pliant, yet
shapely, it is made for long,
faithful service. Moderately
priced, too. Stocked in full
and half-sizes.
Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf . 27/6
Order by post, stating correct
size and fitting—also ask for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per
tin).
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
27/6
Our latest Catalogue is just out.
Have you Kad your copy yet?
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
W.A. 24.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
m
The World’s Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LTD., has planted 163,000
acres with over 130,000,000 trees, and
built 250 miles of roads.
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBED
FOR FORESTRY
INVESTMENTS
RESERVE FOR MAIN
TENANCE AND REAEI
SATION (APPROX.)
£4,000,000
£1,000,000
Mill sites have been selected and secured and
internal transport system surveyed.
Initial Sulphate Pulp and Paper Making
Plant Secured.
While there is still an opportunity to partici-
pate in tlie Company’s investment issues of
£3O Investments, apply for full particulars to:
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
Head Office for Australia:
KESIBLA BUILDING,
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
GROW
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do It.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, Of O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
P.B.
LICK
IS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by all Veterinary Officers.
P.B.
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
100% Pure.
Write for Free Pamphlets to—
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
Wool “Draft.”
“8.0’C.”: “Murrawong” (B. 8/3/’36)
says he opposes this deduction, and so
disarms criticism to some extent. The
question has been debated many times,
and if “Murrawong” or I could put a
finger on it there would be found in an
old issue of The Bulletin the very
reason which he has not heard advanced,
stressed as the main contention by a pro-
tagonist of the allowance ; that is, the
difficulty of the buyer in estimating the
net amount or yield of wool to reach his
principal.
Whether draft deduction is meant to
cover deficiency in actual wool or its
yield does not affect the objection that
it is simply a one-sided arrangement, out
of date and entirely in the buyer’s favor.
To suggest that the odds and ends which
the storemen have failed to cram back
into the relatively few bales on the
brokers’ sampling floors are equivalent
to 11b. per hundredweight of the entire
clip of the country seems childish.
My analogy of the purchase by a
grazier of wool “on the hoof” I thought
apposite, and I might make the parallel
closer by pointing out that not all, by
any means, of the wool seen on the
sheep’s back finds its way into the bales.
Let us suppose the commodity dealt in
be any other merchandise usually bought
and sold in bulk on a limited sampling—
sugar in sacks, apples in boxes, hay in
the stack, paper in rolls, wine in barrels
and onions in the ground—and the argu-
ment seems just as sound.
And what possible grievance is there
if a buyer who may suspect short weight
in a bale to be delivered is asked to pay
the small fee for a weigh-out, seeing that
the seller has already paid, directly or
indirectly, for the weigh-in?
The contention that it would make no
difference if “draft” were abolished, be-
cause the buyer would take it out in re-
duced bidding, is also beside the point.
No one knows.
But the change would at least put
buyers and sellers of wool on a parity,
as they are in most other commercial
transactions.
Merinos in U.S.A.
“K.Mc.”: Here the dual-purpose sheep
has come into great favor ; but as mutton
gives a 50 p.c, better return than wool,
in striving for a larger and larger carcass
wool has suffered. Infusions of new
blood have to be made regularly to build
up the wool, and getting fresh blood
with desired conformation is the breeders’
great difficulty.
Our largest-framed rams, such as Dal-
keith and Boonoke strains, even if they
could get them, would fall short in weight.
U.S.A. breeders set a minimum weight of
1851 b. for two-tooth rams in the wool.
Some of their Rambouillets weigh 3001 b.
and over. In Australia, we consider any-
thing over 2001 b. as a large sheep.
Uncle’s graziers have built up the Ram-
bouillet to an enormous size, and this
breed now exercises a predominating in-
fluence. Corriedales are popular, but it
takes the hardy merinos to stand up to
the harsh winters in the open country.
Owing to adverse soil and climate and
the greater incentive to breed for mutton,
only a small portion of the clip is of the
medium and fine type so popular in
Australia, As insufficient is grown for
home consumption, breeders would like
to increase the wool-bearing capacity of
the sheep ; but their problem is how to
do this without sacrificing the carcass.
Droving Sheep.
“Red Wul”: “Winfield” (B. 26/2/’36)
must have learnt his droving within
fenced lanes where stock could not
spread very wide.
Sheep always should be allowed to
draw off camp or from yards or breaks
or over creeks, with a man or a well-
trained, quiet-working dog in the lead.
Sheep—merinos in particular—require
plenty of room when feeding, and if not
checked the wings will spread in a
ragged line, so that risk of losses by
small mobs poking out or being cut off
arise. A good drover is more often in
front of his flock than behind it. To
ride behind strong sheep is unnecessary ;
to push the tail of poor stock is tragic.
A mob should travel only as fast as the
weakest sheep in it.
So long as the lead is held back for
the tail to feed up to and the wings kept
square with the front, all the shepherd
need do is occasionally ride around the
rear to see that no sheep loiter.
By working along the lead and the two
sides, keeping a fairly compact forma-
tion, two men can take quite large mobs
through broken, timbered or under-
growth country without fear of their get-
ting out of hand.
I do not agree that a midday camp
on water is the best. My experience in
n.-w. Q. has been that a drink resharpens
the sheep’s appetite, making them very
restless on camp. About half-way
through the morning stage, after the mob
has had a couple of hours’ feeding, is
the best time to water.
What Sized Lambs?
“Ghanam”; There may be argument
as to the size of fat lamb which it is
most profitable to grow for export (B.
18/3/’36), but there should not be. Ex-
porters ask for a carcass from 301 b. to
361 b. Their excuse is that Smithfield
likes this range of weight. On the other
hand, dozens of knowalls point out that,
while the range brings a higher price
by about id. per lb. on the London
market, additional weight in heavier car-
casses more than compensates the grower
for the lower rate per pound.
In other words, the suggestion is that
it pays better to grow something which
is not topnotch from a market point of
view.
In times) of heavy buying this may be
all right, but as soon as there is a tight-
ening in demand the obvious happens.
The country which is living exactly up
to Smithfield specifications gets the trade.
Those which know better than their
customers get the bird.
Australia has suffered millions of
pounds in losses in trying to foist on
British markets lines which “are just
as good” as those Britain wants.
Hints for the Farm.
“Win”: No chemical is of any value
on a stump that will not burn. Put a
good fire round it, and cover with clay.
It may smoulder for weeks, but the fire
will do the job in the end.
“Bill R.”: A tool for cutting stems
that have to be reached over blackberry
thorns, lantana, briars or lawyer vines
can be made by heating a common brush
hook and bending it to a more decided
curve. Cool off in water to preserve the
steel. Sharpen with a scythe whetstone
and attach a long, light handle.
“Tockilly”: When sawing a tree down,
drive the axe firmly into the tree and
rest the saw on the axehead. This prevents
the saw from wobbling when entering the
wood, and ensures a good straight cut.
For one-man sawing, cut a strip about
2ft. 6in. long from an old motor tube.
Secure one end of this to the saw, and
the other to a stake driven firmly into
the ground. The rubber contracts after
each pull, greatly assisting in the push
back, which is the hardest part of the job.
“W.P.T.”: In rough country, “Pick’s”
hundredweight bundles of wattle-bark (B.
4/3/’36) are too heavy to handle. In
timbered country the bundles have to be
carried sometimes for 100 yards or more
in order to put them on a slide. Forty
bundles to the ton is a good size. Bark
should be allowed to dry before being
cut up. In any case, a dealer will not
buy green bark. You’ll have to climb
some of the trees, too, if you want to
get all the good bark off a tree.
“Sheepo”: The suggestion made at
the N.S.W. Graziers’ Conference that
the C.S.I.R. be asked to investigate the
qualifications of sheep-branding fluids
on the market is opportune. S. Africa
moved in this direction some time ago,
and fines are inflicted on growers brand-
ing sheep with paint, tar or fluids that
will not scour out readily.
“Geedee”: A few years ago the n.-w.
Mallee (Vic.) was non est as far as sheep-
raising was concerned. When the wheat
market took its desperate plunge to low
levels, settlers had to look elsewhere
for payable products and began dabbling
with the woollies. To-day there is hardly
a Mallee block that does not boast its
flock—in fact, on some, sheep now take
precedence over wheat. Fat-lamb pro-
duction is the main line, but, although
rendered unattractive in appearance
because of the dust from fallow pad-
docks, Mallee wool commands a greatly-
enhanced price these days. One big ad-
vantage that the Mallee sheep-raiser has
is that disease is practically non-existent
in his flocks. The representative of a
leading wool firm considers that the dis-
trict stands alone as an area for healthv
sheep-raising. That graziers big and
small are beginning to share this view
is apparent from the big increase in the
sheep population of the Mallee.


SMOKE-OH!
4* *l* 4* 4*
Unbelievable.
“Oh, thank you,” said the new tenant
of Flat 7 when the landlady called to
inquire if everything was all right;
“there’s nothing more you can do for us.
“The flat is the most satisfactory we
have been in. So warm and cosy, and
the views are beautiful. The hot-water
service is wonderful and the lighting ex-
cellent. No, there’s no sound at all from
the other flats —we don’t even know
whether they possess radio sets. My
husband and I have talked it over, and
we think the rent is ridiculously low, so
we are going to insist on your taking an-
other five shillings a week. We mean
to tell everyone how pleased and happy
we are here, and” ——
With a sleepy yawn the landlady awoke
to another day.
Troy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Before walking to the gallows he received
the last rites from Rev. Schwinger.”— “Sun.”
The name seems appropriate.
4* .T. .!.
This Labor-saving.
“Although most labor-saving devices pri-
marily benefit the housewife, husbands some-
times fail to appreciate the benefit they also
derive from them.”— Woman’s paper.
Too right! Take the case of my Uncle
Aubrey. His wife, Aunt Mary Ann, is
a most masterful woman, and she early
made up their minds to lighten her
domestic tasks by the purchase of every
labor-saving invention that came on the
market. She scrapped her old fuel stove
for an electric one. Uncle Aubrey was
about 18 stone then. In quick succes-
sion she got an electric iron, a vacuum
cleaner and a hot-water service. Uncle
got enormous benefit from them. He
had to work so hard to pay off the in-
stalments that he got down to 14 stone.
Before the washing machine was half-
paid for uncle had hit 12 stone.
Then aunt got a refrigerator and a
washing-up machine. With these on top
of the instalments for house, car, radio,
gramophone and furniture, poor uncle
sank to nine stone, with a consequent
necessity for the replacement of his
wardrobe —more instalments.
Ironing and clothes-mending machines
saw him touch low-water mark at seven
stone. He got as weak as a politician’s
excuse, and had to take to his bed. When
she put his obviously imminent funeral
on the lay-by he gallantly tried to work
to pay it off, but the strain was too much.
I saw Aunt Mary Ann a few weeks
ago at an electrical exhibition. She was
coyly eyeing off the Robot Man!
Quayeau.
4* 4* 4* A
“Nine American nudists are en route to the
Virgin Islands, where they expect to estab-
lish a clotheless colony.”— “Telegraph.”
How long, O Lord, how long?
Trifles DON’T Make Perfection.
“Judge Morgan, of the Reno Divorce Court,
says that fussiness over trifles and the exag-
geration of domestic peccadilloes are the great-
est barriers to happy marriages.”
No doubt about it, women are irra-
tional in this respect.
My fourth wife—Agatha. I think her
name was —never ceased complaining
about the most trifling things, and she
was always exaggerating what I did or
what I didn’t.
She used to nag excessively, for in-
stance, on what she referred to as my
“gallivanting out every night.” A pure
exaggeration. Why, even her own
mother admitted that I never went out
more than six nights a week ; but it’s
just like a woman to swell a domestic
molehill into a whole range of moun-
tains.
Once when I returned from a trip she
hit the roof because I hadn’t mentioned
where I was going. After all, a wife
can’t expect her husband to tell her
every little thing. I had been away only
for a matter of 18 months or so, too.
Then she would keep harping on the
“inadequacy” of the 355. a week I gave
her to keep house on. Inadequate, mind
you, when she had only 25 bob rent to
pay! I often wondered what she splashed
the rest of it up on. Beauty treatments
and other senseless feminine vanities, I
suppose.
The miserable point she would take
was that I spent four times that
much on myself. Selfishly, of course, she
“And, of course, Martin, you'll be expected to blow the organ.”
“ Couldn't do un, Mr. Treliving. Been short o' wind ever since boiler
accident.”
completely ignored the fact that I had
such obligations as bets, lottery tickets,
smokes, fight tickets, pub exes., etc.,
which I was in honor bound to meet.
But of what use is it trying to argue
honor to a woman! She lacks the right
conception, and, anyway, she has a weird
method of confusing trifles with essen-
tials. Such a petty outlook inevitably
wrecks the marital structure.
Ours, of course, was bound to break
sooner or later. Oddly enough, it was
just a trifle that eventually led to her
divorcing me —a matter of a 4in. x Sin.
photo, that her private detective took.
S. W. K.
4* 4. 4. 4*
“A Cambridge University student has made
a considerable sum in bets by walking to
London and back again within a given time.”
Gait-money?
v -I* 4
Economy.
“Well, that’s finished!” exclaimed
the black-and-white artist as he tossed
his pen on the table and gazed with pride
at his latest masterpiece.
“Shall I take it to the fire and burn
it?’ asked his wife.
“What!” exclaimed the man of art in
alarm. “Burn it? Are you out of your
mind, woman?”
“Well, I don’t see why we always have
to waste stamps sending them to the
newspaper offices first?” she protested.
A. E.
4* •!• 4*
“Sir John, who is a bachelor, received his
knighthood two years ago, when he was 40.
In spite of his comparative youth he is grey-
haired.”—'“Telegraph.”
There have been other cases of hair
turning white in a single knight.
.j. jt, .j. .j.
Foregone Conclusion.
The twins were going to their first
fancy-dress party.
“Tommy can go as a pirate,” said his
father.
“I think a pierrot would be better, ’
suggested fond mamma.
“I want to be Ginger Meggs,” put in
Tommy, but his remark was ignored.
Aunt Elizabeth thought Tommy would
make a good Peter Pan, and Aunt Molly,
who was fond of animals, wanted to dress
him up as a frog.
Father joined in again. “If you won’t
let him be a pirate, what about a sailor
or a soldier?”
“Or a policeman?” put in Uncle
George. “He’d make a good bobby with
those feet.”
“I want to be Ginger Meggs,” from
Tommy.
“Why not Little Lord Fauntleroy in
velvet and lace?” said granny, getting a
scowl from Tommy for her pains.
“He’s to be a pierrot,” ruled mother
with an air of finality, and the matter
was settled.
“What about Mary?” asked father. “I
suppose she’ll have to be a pierrette to
match?”
“Or ‘Little 80-Peep’?” chipped in
Uncle George.
The women turned on them with lofty
disdain.
“Don’t be silly,” they said in chorus.
“Of course, Mary’ll go as Shirley Temple,
the same as all the other girls.”
Uco.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One of the promised vocalists was unable
to sing.” —“Beach News” (Bondi).
A crooner?
****}?*%**%*
Everybody’s Friend.
He is a good mixer; nothing snobbish
about him. It matters not whence they
come, cottage or castle, tenement or man-
sion, he treats them all alike. With some
he is on intimate terms, others he knows
by sight, and for those whose names he
forgets he has his owfi pet system of
identification. But, deep down, they’re
all the same to him—he’s a laundryman'
P.C.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
IX.— Don’t Miss Moonta.
While in South Australia no tourist
should miss Moonta.
Other towns may boast greater scenic
attractions, spots of greater historic in-
terest, mines of greater wealth or goats
of greater fragrance, but if he doesn’t
visit Moonta he’ll never be able to look
a Cornishman in the face again, and he’ll
certainly not be able to claim that he
has travelled.
When I took the Whipsnoodles to
Moonta we were at a loss to find any
scenic attractions at all.
At last I accosted an old Cousin Jack
who had stepped out of an Oswald Pryor
cartoon, billygoat beard and all.
I asked him: “What is one supposed
to look at in this town?”
“Ennythin’ tha likes, boay,” he re-
plied, adding as an afterthought, “ ’ceptin’
washing on Mistress Trewartha’s clothes-
line.”
“But where can we go?”
“Ennywhere tha likes, boay.”
I pointed out that we’d been every-
where and we hadn’t seen anything, to
which he replied:
“Tha doan’t know where t’ look f’r
un. I’ll show un.”
So we followed him till we came to a
small paddock near a church.
“Canst tha see un?” he asked, point-
ing to the middle of the paddock.
We saw nothing worthy of note.
“Spot where Tredinnick’s billygoat
chawed up tail Parson Polglase’s coat,”
he explained.
We were duly impressed.
“Fine goat that un,” he added. (I’m
not sure whether he said “goat” or
“coat,” but it doesn’t matter.)
We walked on till we came to a small
hole in the ground. Our guide paused im-
pressively.
“Where Willum Pengilly fell down
shaft cornin’ home fr’m Tummas Tre-
dizzick’s send-otf. That waur a night,
that un.”
So it continued. We inspected spots
where men had fallen down and spots
where men had got up again, places
where goafs had attacked miners and
places where miners had attacked goats.
Finally the old chap stopped suddenly
and turned to Claude Counterpane.
“Naow, ma boay. Tha’d never guess
where th’art stannin’ naow! ”
Claude admitted his ignorance.
“Right on spot where Cap’n Hancock
stood when boiler bust an’ blowed Martin
Penalurick sky-high. That surprise un?”
We voiced our amazement.
“An’ cap’n ’e says, ‘Dang un, th’ fule!
That’s last boiler ’e’ll stoke!’ An’ ’twas,
too.”
No, you mustn’t miss Moonta, on any
account.
Jasby.
4* 4* 4*
From an Eskimo’s Diary.
October: Home early. Wife said: “I
didn’t expect you home to-night until
December.” Got morning wood. Had
tea.
November : Daughter’s boy-friend
came. I read.
December: Put out the cat, wound
clock and retired.
January: Wife woke me. Said she
heard burglars.
February: Decided to investigate.
Found it was only daughter saying good-
night to her boy-friend.
March: Couldn’t get to sleep again.
Must have been nearly April when I
dropped off.
April ; Slept in again. Five weeks late
for work.
“Next time,” said the boss, “you’re
fired.”
Must speak to daughter’s young man
about these midnight disturbances.
O. W. W.
Eclipse.
Light of my life {oh, there I go !), they’re
ended.
These sentimental verses, take my tip.
To be quite frank ’tis not by me intended
To let your charms obtain a fatal grip.
I’m sick of terming you “my sweet,” “my
darling,”
Or “dearest heart,” or “angel face,” or
“pet.”
To-night, my saturated soul is snarling
A somewhat less adoring epithet.
So, in the interim of this inditing
In days to come when maybe Til be
blue,
I shall refrain, my sweet {oh, damn I),
from writing
These gilded rhymes of love each week
to you.
And, anyway, I’ve struck a nasty snag —
This week I can’t think up a novel gag!
P.O.M.C.
Disillusion.
’Tis finished! All is over ! Our romance
Lies buried in the grave ! Your broken
spell
No more can hold my spirit in a trance :
Farewell, Elaine — farewell!
The guilt is yours! I thought you were
divine ;
I dreamed of perfect love and wedding
peals.
But, oh! you seared this poet-soul of
mine!
You shattered my ideals!
One hateful deed has ruined all your
charm.
A lesser failing might have been
ignored.
But yestereven, dozing on my arm —
Oh, ruthless gods!—you snored.
NAT.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J.J. HARDIE
Chapter XI.
THE circle of coolabahs leaning toward one another
across the little waterhole stood isolated—a dark-
green island set in a wide sea of thick, sun-bleached
Mitchell grass. Away to the west the river timber
hovered faintly in the mirage that further north lifted
a low belt of scattered trees and held it suspended
between land and sky—a fairy island over a shimmer-
ing lake.
Mac shielded his eyes against the glare of the
bleached grass and peered again to the north. The
moving dot had disappeared in the mirage, but he
kept his eyes fixed on the spot till it showed again—
a faint, almost indiscernible movement at the base
of the dancing haze. It might be cattle coming in to
water, but, again, it might be Bill; he ought to be
turning up soon. The second day was drawing on,
and Mac was getting restless and tired of sitting alone
in the middle of an empty plain.
When next he looked there was no longer any
doubt. The little mob travelled too fast and did not
file along like cattle coming to water; they were
horses, all right—-somewhere about a dozen —and the
white shirts of two men riding behind glinted in the
sunlight. Mac kicked the charred butts together on
the fire and put the billy on.
From the shade of a coolabah he watched their
steady approach, heads raised and wary eyes search-
ing the timber. Even at that range their apparent
quality excited his admiration, and a comparison with
his own horses yielded reluctant admission to the
truth of Bill’s scathing remarks.
In the lead a beautiful jet-black horse with a
small star on his forehead moved with an effortlfess
rhythmic gait, his head high, mane and tail flowing
out. Close behind came the bay horse Bill had ridden
on their last meeting, then a beautifully-built brown
mare with a richly-dappled coat. They were on to
him too quickly for him to notice more than the
outstanding quality of perhaps half the mob, the sleek,
shining coats, clean limbs and signs of breeding—and
the total absence of chestnuts among them. Mac
commented on it later. Bill shrugged slightly and
looked ahead with a twisted smile on his lips.
“I’ve had a set on chestnuts ever since one mucked
up my dial. I don’t mind riding them, but I never
buy them.”
Mac headed the packhorses while the mob
splashed into the waterhole and buried their noses in
the yellow water. Bill dismounted, deftly removed
his saddle and bridle, and as his horse trotted down
to the water he took a packhorse from Mac.
“Well, did you think I wasn’t coming?” Without
waiting for an answer he beckoned to his companion.
“This is Percy, your new horsetailer —and his last boss
is waiting for me with a gun for taking Percy away
from him.”
Mac nodded a greeting to the new arrival and
studied him covertly. A slight, wiry youth with dark,
regular features and a ready smile that disclosed even
rows of flashing white teeth. He sat the big brown
horse as though he had been born in the saddle, and
wore broad, short-necked spurs hung low on his
heels —cattleman fashion —a clean white shirt and
white moleskins, and a red silk handkerchief knotted
loosely round his neck added a vivid touch of color
to his appearance. The reins hung loosely from his
slender, sensitive brown hands. Something about the
hands held Mac’s eyes ; he glanced from them to the
vivid red handkerchief and back to the hands as the
lad unbuckled the surcingle and side-straps, pulled a
swag to the ground and unhooked the packbags.
“You can bring my horses in for a drink now,
Percy, and put them all out together.”
“Right-oh!” The boy smiled with a flash of
teeth and swung his horse into an easy canter. Mac
peered after him over a packsaddle. “Looks a good
sort of a kid!”
Bill grunted and swung his packsaddle off to the
ground. “We’re damned lucky to get him! He’s a
champion little horseman, a wonderful tracker, and
you couldn’t shift that smile off his face with a cold
chisel! ”
“A tracker?” Mac’s thoughts went back to the
slender, brown fingers and small wrists. “I say, Bill,
is he”
Bill nodded confirmation. “Half-caste —but a
good one!” He waited while Mac threw a handful
of tea on the billy and stood it by the side of the fire.
“He can ride two of my horses—that’s what I
think of him —and I’ll keep three for myself. We’ll
use Night, the black horse, and Rodney, the big bay
with the black points, as night horses, and I’ll warn
you now not to fall asleep on them. If the cattle
rush they’ll be off the mark with them, so look out
or you’ll be left behind. I bought the other half-
dozen for you, and you’ll find them all right.”
He pointed to the little mob moving out in
search of grass apart from his own horses.
“They’ve all been on the road with cattle, so you
needn’t worry about them.”
Mac ran his eye over the new purchases. Like
his father, horses were to him only a means to an
end, and he had little interest in them otherwise, but
there was a workmanlike look about the six that
appealed to him, and, although they did not compare
with Bill’s aristocrats, they were distinctly better than
his own lot. He rejoined Bill, picking horseshoes and
tools out of a packbag, “No news of a' cook, I
suppose?”
“No. We’ll have to do our own cooking for a
while. I’ve wired to the chap that keeps the pub at
Camooweal to try to get a man. We’d better shoe
a few of the new lot and get an early start in the
morning.”
In the days that followed, as they pushed steadily
up the river, the two men gradually bridged the inter-
vening gap of the years since their last meeting, and
the old friendship was renewed on a stronger foun-
dation. It took Bill some time to overcome the idea
that Mac was no longer a kid in hand-me-downs. He
was old beyond his years in some ways, the inherent
and acquired qualities of stolid perseverance fitting
naturally on his short, thickset frame ; but on some
subjects his reserve and lack of sophistication were
those of a boy. He was as quiet as ever, seldom ventur-
ing an opinion till he had thrashed out the pros and
cons in his mind, and his slow speech had a maturity
that contrasted with Bill’s light, drawling tones.
Bill had changed not only in features, but in
almost every way. He had acquired a sophistication
heightened by the drooping eyelid, the broken nose
and twisted smile that was more than superficial. His
clear English diction had taken on an Australian inflec-
tion, and the old alertness of bearing, although it
still flashed out at times, was camouflaged under an
easy, unhurried manner that was plainly modelled on
Dinny. The reticence and reserve of his youth had
been overcome ; he would pull up and yabber and
laugh with a blackfellow, have a yarn with a passing
teamster, a drover or a bagman, and be unquestion-
ably accepted as one of themselves.
But it was as a horseman that he excelled. From
a station they passed through they bought a couple
more horses, and all hands lined the stockyard rails
when Bill rode them. The prices asked seemed ridi-
culously cheap to Mac, and he felt dubious about
his bargains when he watched them trying to turn
Catherine-wheels with Bill in the saddle. But all
other feelings rapidly gave way to sheer admiration.
From the moment Bill entered the yard his quiet,
confident handling of the horse, the clean, swift move-
ment that placed him in the saddle, and his effortless
poise as the horse bucked, whirled and tried all the
tricks in his repertoire to dislodge the impassive figure
on its back stamped him as a finished horseman. He
reminded the watcher of Dinny, and Mac knew that
the master would have been more than satisfied with
his pupil.
Percy, the cheerful little horsetailer, worshipped
Bill, and Mac early sensed the reason why the boy
had left a comfortable station job to follow him, and
also that wherever Bill went Percy would follow
regardless of any consideration. That and the grow-
ing realisation of the indispensability of Bill were
affording Mac food for serious thpught. Bill owned
the pick of the horses and saddlery; he was a good
cattleman, and knew the river—that long winding
track that stages the annual pilgrimages of the big
mobs from the Territory. Each day brought to Mac
further proof of the hole he \yould have been in
without Bill —of the hopeless proposition that would
have faced him but for their chance meeting. The
summer rains had been light, and the river frontage
was almost bare of grass, and the permanent water-
holes few and far between.
Mac cantered ahead with Bill one morning, leav-
ing Percy to follow with the horses. The air was
fresh and cool and laden with that indefinable, elusive
tang~a whiff of gum leaves, the dry scent of spinifex,
the heavy odor of cattle and of old cattle camps, all
fused in dry, baking sunlight and served with the cool,
dewy breath of dawn. The world held a spacious-
ness untrammelled by fences or hills.
In to the left the tall river coolabahs thrust gaunt,
grey limbs skywards, and snow-white clouds of
screeching corellas wheeled and eddied over and
among them. The vast brown floor stretched dusty
and bare on either side, and away ahead to the clear
morning mirage of trees in the northern sky. Far
out to the east the long lines of bush cattle were
coming in to water. Columns of dust marked their
distant progress, and in the crystal clarity of the
morning air the colors of the cattle stood out as dis-
tinctly as. though they were seen through a powerful
telescope.
When they dropped from a canter to a long,
swinging walk Mac rode in silence for a time ; then
he cleared his throat somewhat nervously. “I’ve just
been thinking, Bill”
The man at his side glanced from under the droop-
ing eyelid. “Is that what’s given you the headache
for the last day or two? Well, out with it!”
Mac turned in the saddle to face him squarely.
“It’s just this —you’re Supplying half of the plant and
most of the experience, so how about our working
this trip in partnership?”
Bill’s eyebrows went up. “What’s wrong with
the way we’re working now?”
“A partnership would be only a fair thing, and
I’d rather have it.”
“But what about the get-rich-quick scheme and
the girl waiting down below?”
Mac’s jaw set doggedly. “I mean it, Bill.”
They rode in silence for a while, then Bill nodded
casually. “Right-oh, Mac! I’ll give it a fly. But,
remember, no one else touches my special horses, and
I’ll never insult them by droving sheep. Hello! ” He
broke off, gazing ahead. “Looks like a traveller
coming this way—packhorse and a spare. Wonder
does he want a job?”
As they drew closer Bill’s eyes focused on the
horses.
“I’ll bet he’s a racehorse crank! That bay
horse is a galloper, and the one he’s riding isn’t too
slow either.”
Mac was more interested in the horseman, a
slight, wiry figure in the mid-twenties, with sharp
features and quick, brown eyes. He pulled up with
the usual greeting; “G’day! Going far?”
“Territory,”
“Cattle?”
Bill nodded assent, watching the keen eyes of
the stranger appraising his horse.
“Good sort of a horse that.”
“He’s not bad,”
“I’ll race you for a fiver! Five furlongs or half
a mile,”
Bill shook his head with a smile. “He’s got a
lot of work ahead of him. How’s the grass and water
up the track?”
“Not much good! Tell you what. I’ll race you
to that bloodwood for a quid!”
Bill laughed quietly. “Wait till we deliver this
mob and I’ll race you to Sydney for your cheque if
you like. Going far?”
“Don’t know yet! I’ve been working up here
since I got back from the war, but lately I’ve been
getting sort of cranky —finding meself worrying whether
a waterhole will last out, getting wild when I see
another fellow riding my hacks—little things like that.
So it looked to me like I was getting married to tne
job and time I moved on —so I got me cheque and
pulled out this morning.”
He broke off as the plant drew level to run a
quick eye over the horses and their brands.
“Bit of a mixed lot there! What do you want
for the black horse?”
THE STORY SO FAR—
Bill Muir came to Queensland as a
newchum and spent some time with
Mac Andrew, a sheep-drover, afterwards
turning his attention to cattle. Twelve
year’s later Mac Andrew’s son while on
his way to the Northern Territory to
pick up a mob of cattle fell in with
Bill, now an expert cattleman.
Mac had had difficulty in finding men
for the trip, so Bill, realising the lad’s
greenness as far as cattle-droving was
concerned, offered to go with him. Mac
eagerly accepted.
At the close bf last week’s instalment
Bill had left Mac's camp and gone to
buy some horses for the trip.


“Ever hear of a drover selling his best night horse
before a trip?”
“You win, mate! Oh, well, I’ll push on.”
“We’re looking for a cook —d’you know of
anyone?”
The traveller considered for a moment.
“The Desolated Cokernut went up to Camooweal
a couple of weeks back to jump his roll across the
bar.
Bill pricked his ears.
“Think he’s cleaned out by now?”
“Heard he was back at Urandangie. Damned
good cook!”
“I know he is! Does he still get his words mixed
up?”
Bill picked up his reins and smiled inwardly at
Mac fidgeting alongside at his apparent omission.
He nodded casually to the traveller, when an after-
thought seemed to occur to him.
“We’re a man short. How about coming along?”
The traveller looked long and intently to the
south; then he contemplated his two horses. He
switched to a survey of Bill’s bay horse, glanced at Mac’s
and quickly glanced away. Then he raised his stock-
whip arm, wheeled his horses back on the track and
fell in with Bill .and Mac.
“I’ll come back and see how the Cokernut’s
doing. Dick West, they call me.”
The city of Urandangie came to life on their
arrival next day. A mob of goats scurried behind
the two cottages that comprised the metropolis, and
an old dog barked wheezily. A disconsolate figure
seated in the shade of a pepper-tree surveyed them
from red-rimmed eyes. He nodded briefly at Dick
West, glanced at Mac, and looked searchingly at Bill,
then he croaked:
“Where’s Dinny?”
“Dead! Killed at the war. Are you coming with
us, Tim?” He paused to let the words sink in, then
added: “It’s a packhorse plant and a fifteen-week
job.”
The blotched face twitched slightly, and the man
rose unsteadily to his feet. “I’ll get me swag.” His
trembling hand fumbled futilely at a pocket. “Will
you get me a bottle of bifurcated magnesia, Bill? —it’s
me indigestion,”
The augmented camp rode northward. On their
left hand ran the netting fence that crossed half a
continent in one straight span ; a man could vault
from Queensland to the Northern Territory with ease,
reversing and repeating the process
till the geographical novelty of it
wore off.
The end of a journey was in sight,
the beginning of another loomed
closer.
Chapter XII.
THE big mob straddled the open
downs like a huge hourglass, with
stockmen, black and white, hovel-
ing round the edges, punching th.
cattle back here or accelerating there.
The leaders spread out through the
dry, knee-high Mitchell grass, reds
and whites and roans trumpeting their
displeasure at the humiliation imposed
on them by the curtailment of their liberty.
Back where the mob narrowed to a waist, a
moving barrier of horsemen regulated the flow
of cattle past the counters, and as the front mob
grew and spread across the downs the back mob
contracted like the last dwindling grains of sand
awaiting their turn in the upper glass.
They were through! The remaining handful
swept past in a bunch to join their mates ; a big,
bearded horseman glanced at the rider opposite.
“Fifty-two?”
“Correct!” The bearded man turned to the
stockman checking the knots in a greenhide lace.
“Ten—eleven — twelve ! ”
“Twelve hundred and fifty-two! That suit you.
Bill?”
“Right, Harry!” Bill and Mac closed on the
bearded head stockman while half a dozen aboriginal
musterers chattered and laughed in high-pitched tones
in the background at the prospect of a spell, now that
the mob was mustered and delivered.
“Well, we’ll get back.”
The head stockman held out a hand. “So long
. . . and good luck!”
The two camps drew apart, the station men and
the blacks cantering off to the north while the drovers
started the mob on its long walk south, Mac drew
a long, deep breath, and there was an undercurrent
of youthful excitement in the glance he threw at Bill.
“Well, we’re off!”
He felt anew sense of importance under his stolid
demeanor ; this was the biggest mob of cattle Mac
had ever handled, and he looked with pride along
the sea of sleek backs and horns. Twelve hundred
and fifty-two bullocks —eight hundred miles.
Bill’s thoughts worked along other lines. They
were bound to lose a fair number, he was thinking ;
the bullocks would get through all right, but a lot of
those heifers would crack up on a bad track. Yes,
he would have to pick up a few more, but he would
have to do it quietly. Mac had queer, old-fashioned
ideas about some things.
Next morning they moved off camp at piccaninny
daylight after a restless night, the cattle feeding
steadily over the downs, with the dark-green line of
the river timber a mile to their right. Beyond that
again the desert scrub stretched its sombre olive foliage
to the horizon.
Bill reined the bay horse alongside his partner.
“Mac, I think we lost a few last night!”
“How?” A worried look spread over the stolid
features.
“Easiest thing in the world to cut off a few the
way they walked about all night. If you and Tom
will keep them moving”—Tom was the latest member
of the camp, a middle-aged, taciturn individual—
“ Dick and I will go out through the scrub and have
a look round.”
Mac nodded hesitantly and rode on with a slightly
puzzled expression. He trusted Bill—to a point —but
some of his intuitions were built on rather airy
foundations.
The sun was high overhead when the two men
returned driving a mob of about fifty cattle, which
they merged in the main mob, then rode their sweat-
ing horses into the waterhole, stooping from the saddle
to scoop up pints of water, which they gulped thirstily.
As Bill set his quartpot on the fire, Mac looked up
with wrinkled brows.
■ “We didn’t lose that many, Bill!”
“Oh, well, it’s best to be on the safe side.”
They camped that night on a small plain bounded
by dense gidya scrub, and the cattle, still resentful
at being handled, coerced and torn from home, refused
to approach the camp or to settle down. The flicker
of the campfire was eventually masked with a screen
of green boughs, and young Percy rode out to take
the first watch, with Tim, the cook, to lend him a
hand till the cattle settled down. Bill put his saddle
on the spare night horse and lingered by the fire for
a final word with Mac before turning in.
A half-moon rode in the clear starry sky, its wan
radiance swamped by the flickering red glow of the
fire. The cattle appeared to be steadying down. They
sounded quieter, and over the night air came the
cook’s monotonous chanting of a lugubrious bush
ballad mingling with young Percy’s rendering of a
music-hall song as picked up from a gramophone.
With the end of his song Percy’s thin, boyish voice
was silent for a while ; then, cautiously at first, but
gaining in strength, it rose again in the high-pitched,
rhythmic chant of a corroboree.
Galloping madly through the
night alongside a close-packed,
hurtling stampede.
Bill grinned at the boy’s lapse to the abori-
gine strain as he sat on his blankets debating
whether it would be wise to undress. The night was
warm without a breath of wind, and he was taking
the last watch with Tom. Oh, damn it, he’d chance
it! He placed his boots and stockwhip where he
could lay a hand instinctively on them, rolled himself
in a blanket and was soon asleep.
Mac woke at the soft thudding of the approach-
ing horse’s hooves and shook the sleep from his eyes.
He drank a pint of hot coffee from the billy at the
fire and mounted the night horse, while the cook lit
his charred old pipe with a glowing coal before roll-
ing into his blankets. Dick West, yawning prodigi-
ously, lounged over to the fire more from force of
habit than need of warmth, then followed Mac on
the spare night horse.
Mac crooned his way. out to the dim bulk of the
mob. His musical repertoire was limited, and under
his rendering one tune sounded much like another ;
he could never remember the words either, but bul-
locks are an uncritical audience and not at all fussy
about little things like that. He rode round to inter-
cept Percy, who was beefing out “Clementine” from
the back of the mob. The boy pulled up as they came
abreast and his teeth flashed a smile in the moon-
light.
“All right, Percy?”
“Yes, they’re all right! Dick coming out?”
“You’ll pass him on the way in.”
“ ’Night, Mac! ”
The boy’s song faded away toward the camp,
and shortly afterwards the strains of “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres” in its full, uncensored A.I.F. ver-
sion took up the running.
Mac yawned sleepily. Three hours and forty
minutes to put in before he could crawl under the
blankets again. The horse moved steadily round on
its patrol, and his formless monotone took its time
from the muffled beat of the hooves.
He glanced idly over the mob. Most of them
were lying down, and those still on their feet stood
like statues in the waning light of the moon. A heifer
dodged through the mob with two or three steers trot-
ting in pursuit, and Mac muttered wrathfully under his
breath. On the opposite side of the mob a song broke
off suddenly, and Dick’s voice rose on an anxious
note. “Whoa, bullicks! Whoa, there! Whoa back,
you wandering sods! Who-o-up!”
Mac’s horse increased its pace a shade, and the
rider peered anxiously ahead. One side of the mob
appeared to be on its feet and moving restlessly about.
He joined Dick driving back a projecting wing that
had started to stray away from the mob, and between
them they settled them down again.
“Damned fine horse this! ” said Dick. “Wouldn’t
mind owning him meself. Wonder what Bill paid
for him?”
“Don’t know, Dick. Whoa back there, bullock ! ”
“Anyway, if they do rush, a man has a chance;
to wheel ’em before they hit the coast with a decent
horse like this!”
Mac left him to steady the restless side and
continued his patrol. When he came back Dick was
still addressing the mob with a steady stream of cheer-
ful vituperation.
“They’re about as hard to settle as the mob we
look down from Winardo last year. They rushed every
night for damn’ near six weeks.”
“Did you lose many?”
“Too flamin’ right, we did! Left a trail of broken
horns all down the Georgina, an’ the cook pulled out
at Urandangie because the trees were getting scarce
. . i i ...... . • . . n *, .1
an’ he wasn’t going to get flattened
out by no rushing bullicks, he
wasn’t! Used to pick an easy tree
to climb, an’ slep’ under it every
night—soon’s the mob went, he was
up that tree like a goanna in his
sleep.”
They separated again, and Mac
crooned his way thoughtfully round
the mob. Save for an odd beast
weaving restlessly about, the cattle
lay peacefully asleep. The red half-
moon hung low on the horizon, and
its waning light had almost sur-
rendered to the stars. It must be
near midnight; the. biggest half of
their watch still lay ahead of them,
and he felt as tired as if he hadn’t
slept for a week.
The moon disappeared, and for
a time the earth was shrouded in
dark mystery and filled with strange
shapes that loomed up, but failed to
materialise. A change came over
the mob —a restlessness that brought
them slowly to their feet. They
walked about, stalked calmly and
silently off the camp with a train of
eager followers till the two men
were forced to canter backward and
forward, nipping the sorties in the
bud, till at length the restlessness
departed and the cattle sank to earth
again with deep, placid whoofs.
Peace reigned over the sleeping mob. Only Mac’s
monotonous drone and “Paddy McGinty’s Goat” from
Dick insulted the stillness of the night.
Mac, glimmering through sleep-heavy eyelids over
the quiet scene, clutched suddenly and wildly at the
reins as the horse shot forward. A roaring thunder
filled his ears —he was galloping madly through the
night alongside a close-packed, hurtling stampede.
The transition from perfect peace to pandemonium
had been so sudden, so incredibly startling, that he
was still unaware of everything but the menacing
cataract of cattle thundering at his side and his
instinctive clinging to the saddle.
He crouched down on the galloping horse and
yelled wildly against the thunder of hooves and fierce
clash of horns. He must wheel them, check the head-
long rush. “Whoa, bullocks. Who-oaa! ”
A sudden outbreak of crackling and crashing.
Dark, formless shapes flew at him out of the dark.
They were in the scrub —gidya—hard, unyielding as
cast-iron. He ducked low on the horse’s neck with
a hint of hysteria in his shouts.
“Whoa, bullocks. Whoa there!”
The quick rhythm of the muscles under the saddle
stopped, and the unseen earth yawned sickeningly
below them —an awful sensation of falling, falling.
A cold sweat broke out on him. His heart was in his
throat—visions of going down under that pounding
avalanche flashed before his agonised senses, trampled
flat, unrecognisable. A muffled, anguished bellow
burst out and was suddenly stifled in the ominous
thunder of hooves.
Relief! They were galloping again, up a quick
incline, through splintering timber, and the gully was
left behind in the inky blackness. Was this the lead?
He yelled fiercely at the leaders again and again.
They gave ground, swerving slowly, and the horse
veered with them.
A shout ahead. “Whoa there! Whoa! ” and the
fierce bang, bang, bang of a stockwhip wielded with
savage intent. Dick must be right in front of the
mob—or was this a wing that had shot out behind
{Continued on page 50.)


I
Se
No. 175.
‘--K
£l6llOl-
-
It is built for roping, and
is fitted with leather
breast collar. It is
also double-rigged, hav-
ing one cord cincha and one leather
cincha. The leather is a nice dark-
brown, neatly basket-stamped, and the
bastos are lined with woolly sheepskin.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
We do riot exhibit at the Show, so be
sure to visit our saddlery department.
If you are unable to call, write for our
100-page saddlery catalogue, No. 361.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. !. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
♦ HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Dan Hogan Has a Busy Day:-
WENGEANCE
BY PROXY
BY
W.D.
FLANNERY
Illustrated by Lock.
WHEN the first warning attack sub-
sided, old Faber sat down and
wrote laboriously. Next day, when
the ambulance had taken him away, one
of the maids found the letter on his
table, and gave it to the butcher to drop
into the post. Later still, it was discov-
ered that Faber had been relieved of a
vicious appendix, and all visitors were
barred until further notice. There was
no danger, but peace and quietness were
essential.
The incident caused some diversion at
the boarding-house dinner-table. Now
that the operation was over, few of the
boarders had much sympathy with the
sufferer. Faber was a queer old bird,
very touchy, and always moaning about
something. He was never known to
take or make a joke; and he would
talk unceasingly about everything except
his own affairs. However, the news cast
a temporary gloom over the workless
youths down in Lilac-street, where Faber
ran a ham and beef shop. In that
locality, practical joking was carried out
with remarkable ingenuity ; and the gods
could not have provided a more con-
venient butt than the old German with
his comical appearance and fiery temper.
His gesticulating antics and fearsome
threats would be sadly missed by his tor-
mentors. Too bad!
In due course, Faber’s letter reached
Sergeant Burke, of the local police
station. The envelope yielded up a grimy
receipt book ; an open authority for the
A resplendent figure.
collection by bearer of all rent due in
respect of premises situated at No. 13
Corner-street, East Sydney ; and a per-
sonal note which the sergeant read with
a chuckle. He called out to a constable
who was about to go on duty.
“Find young Dan Hogan and send him
down here. You’ll probably find him
reading the tips at Meehan’s paper
kiosk.”
Some time later Sergeant Burke looked
up and saw a stocky youth with unbe-
lievably red hair. Hat in hand, he
shuffled uncertainly from one foot to
the other. Even his obvious anxiety did
not hide the latent mischief in his face,
with its multitudinous freckles and mere
button of a nose.
“Sit down, Hogan.” The sergeant rum-
maged with some papers. “Remember
old Hans Faber?”
“Sure.” The blue eyes twinkled remi-
niscently. “I ’ear ’e’s been carved up.
What about it?”
“He’s giving you a job. Read this.”
“Strike me fat!” Hogan read the
authority, and handed it back. “That
old goat a landlord! Never thought ’e
’ad a crab. Still, there’s nothin’ doin’.
I won’t ’ave it on, sergeant.”
“Oh, yes, you will!” The sergeant
assumed an official air. “You’re still get-
ting relief coupons, and you’re not going
to refuse help to a sick man, if I know
it. Another thing, too. Faber came in
here last week and told me a few things.
He can make you and your crowd look
very sick if he ever lays a charge against
you. I advised him to do so ; but he
said he’d think it over for a while.”
“Oh, yeah?” Hogan pondered a while
in silence. “Anyway, why pick on me?
Look at my clobber? Think I’d ever
collect a razoo in them duds?”
“Full of excuses, eh?” said the sergeant
impatiently. “Didn’t I see you with
Fanny Brogan in the Domain last Sun-
day, all decked out in the latest?”
“Them’s me Sunday ones,” admitted
Hogan pridefully. “Snappy, eh? A
roughie at Kenso. got me that lot. I
forgot for a minnit.”
“Listen then,” counselled the sergeant,
getting down to details. “You’re to col-
lect that rent every Monday while Faber
is in hospital. Keep two shillings in the
pound and bring the rest here. That’s
all you have to do. It’s an old house
with three floors. A Mrs. Finigan lives
downstairs. Above her is a family named
Schultz ; and the top landing is rented
by an Italian —Pietro Turra. Anything
else you want to know?”
“Sure—hundreds of things ; but that
old Fritz is the only bloke as can gimme
the answers. I ain’t strong for this joke,
sergeant. There’s a catch in it some-
where. Still, to save trouble. I’ll give it
a go. Gimme the book!”
“The rent is a pound weekly from each
family.” Sergeant Burke handed over the
receipt-book. “Make a start next Mon-
day, and come down here afterwards.
That’s all now.”
MONDAY came, A resplendent figure
emerged from the Hogan domicile.
The narrow-brimmed hat was, tilted rak-
ishly. The tight, pleated coat, the vest and
the voluminous trousers
were of a vivid magenta
hue. Shoes of a poison-
ous tan and the family
umbrella completed a
picture which was re-
ceived in the neighbor-
hood with admiring
glances or cleverly-con-
cealed “raspberries” ac-
cording to the degree of
jealousy it inspired.
It was raining mistily when he reached
Corner-street; but the umbrella gave an
added air of prosperity. It had been no
easy task to wheedle it away from his
father, who regarded the article with an
affection that had grown to the point of
actual worship. With a jaunty air Hogan
tripped up the steps of No. 13. The door
opened to his brisk knock, revealing an
enormous red-faced woman whose arms
dripped suds.
“I’m Mrs. Finigan, true enough,” she
said, wiping hamlike hands on her
apron. “An’ ye’ve come from old Faber,
may the divil take his mean soul! Come
along in wid me.”
She led him down to a kitchen filled
with a musty stench and the sound of
drizzling taps.
“There’s a foine flavor for a man’s
dinner,” she said, sniffing loudly, “Kape
it in moind whin ye go. I’ve been at ’im
about that ploombin’ for a pig’s age.
’Tis a mercy we’re not all took wid the
plague, so it is. That’s Faber for ye,
the miserly ould hound!”
“I’ll get it —I’ll speak about it,”
promised Hogan uneasily. “An’, now, I’d
like to ’ave the rent.”
“So ye would, an’ small blame to ye,”
she agreed, stamping on a small cock-
roach. “Ye’d ’ave it this minnit, if it
was moine to give. Whin ye come agin,
we’ll'see. At prisint, there’s no spare
shillin’ in the place.”
“Look ’ere, Mrs. Finigan,” protested
Hogan. “If the rent ain’t put in, there
can’t be no plumbin’.”
“Will ye listen to the man?” said the
lady, losing her complaisance. “Ye seem
to ’ave the dacint cut about ye; but, to
hear ye talk, wan would think old Faber’s
stingy heart was under that puce coat, so
they would. Be off wid ye, loike a wise
feller. I’ve washin’ to be done.”
Hogan gained the next landing, and
rang the bell with some misgivings. The
job, so lightly undertaken, had unsus-
pected drawbacks. Still, he’d see it
through, if only for once. The door
opened with a jerk, and his introductory
remarks were rudely interrupted. With
surprising strength, the German woman
seized him, and dragged him within. With
great indignation she showed him the
bedroom, where freshly-fallen plaster lit-
tered the floor. The scarred ceiling bore
mute witness to many similar avalanches.
On every hand were broken window-
panes, pasted over with cellophane.
“You go to dem grazy beoples.” She
pointed aloft as she bustled Hogan to
His exit was undignified.
the door. “Dey roosh, an’ joomp, an’
sing mit a foolishness; an’ you see dot
blaster vot ain’t dere? An’ dem Irish
poys mit der ball an’ der brick vot smash
der vindow. You make dem to bay you.
Yen you gome nex’ veek, maybe I gif
you some, too.”
HOGAN went aloft, a glint in his eyes.
He was determined to stand no more.
He hoped and prayed that there was a
man somewhere in the place. He was
sick of dealing with women. His prayer
was soon answered. A swarthy Italian
opened the top door, and
Hogan pushed into the
hall without invitation.
Resting the prized um-
brella against the wall he
pulled out the receipt-
book.
“See ’ere,” he began
tactlessly, “I’m ’ere f’r
the rent, an’ 1 don’t want
no more boloney. ’Ow
about it?”
“No spik Inglese.” The swarthy one
shrugged, and turned expressive palms
upwards, “No gotta da mon’.”
“Don’t gimme none of that,” said
Hogan, thrusting his chin forward.
“I’ve been kidded by the Irish an’ pushed
about by square-’eads, but I ain’t takin’
a chaser from nobody else, see? Pay
up, Spaghetti,” he finished threateningly,
taking a step forward, “or I’ll take a
swing at your beak!”
The Italian, no longer smiling, tried
to push Hogan to the door, but that
worthy, now thoroughly aroused, emitted
a grunt of satisfaction. Stamping heartily
on the tenant’s foot, he broke free and
delivered a painful shamrock to the nose.
The battle was on.
“Enrico! Umberto ! Salvatore!” the
stricken one shouted, adding a staccato
broadside in his native tongue ; and three
or four partly-clad compatriots answered
his call to arms. They tumbled from
adjoining bedrooms and rushed to the
attack, cuffing, kicking and shouting
excitedly. Hogan met them joyfully, his
fists flying. One
of the first casual-
ties was the
family umbrella.
It was kicked
aside, a pitiful,
broken thing.
Soon afterwards
Dragged him into the yard.
Hogan’s Sunday coat sent, out a rending
call for stretcher-bearers. With a pro-
testing zip, it parted along the back seam.
The feathered hat, pride of his heart,
reposed there on the floor, plaything
of those scuffling feet.
In the face of these tragedies Hogan
excelled himself, but sheer weight of
numbers gradually bore him back to the
door, and eventually through it.
His exit was the more undignified be-
cause the door had been closed.


LEMITE
is what your car,
van or lorry
require
v\
m
9
O Marks the points which must he protected
against wear by L ÜBRICdtTION not hap •
hazard greasing—to get the utmost in
useful car-miles, Insist on A.lemite full
lubrication , under pressure , and you insure proper
functioning of all metal-to-metal bearing surfaces*
AIEMITE provides specialized lubricants
for cylinders .., water-pump... gear box ... wheel
bearings ~ . clutch release ... universal joints ...
steering gear . . . chassis and differential. Motor
efficiency demands ALEMITE not just grease!
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT . . . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J, G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street. Adelaide K-Aust—l-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived;—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
K -
■
I
m
Distributors for the House of McCollum •
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
There was a strenuous Donnybrook on
the outside landing before Hogan, in tat-
tered ruin, descended the stairs in a
manner more rapid than graceful.
1r may have been sheer chance that
brought Mrs. Schultz to the stairway on
her landing, a pail of greasy water in her
hand. However, seeing the new agent’s
plight, and no doubt wishing to cool his
fevered blood, she clapped the pail on
his head, dragged him to the other flight
and sped him on his way with a deft
movement of her foot.
Naturally, the sounds of conflict had
drifted down to the Finigan domain. The
good housewife herself was awaiting
Solved his problem.
Hogan as he rolled, saturated and breath-
less, into her hall. With a humane desire
to spare him any further indignities, she
seized what remained of his Sunday coat
and dragged him into the muddy yard.
There, with the help of two sturdy young-
sters with features like her own, she
lifted the unfortunate deputy and
dumped him, pail and all, on to the cold,
hard ground beyond the back fence.
Hogan staggered to his feet, extricat-
ing himself from the bucket with some
difficulty. His brain seethed with pos-
sible schemes for revenge, even murder;
but when he had cooled somewhat, and
the facts of the matter identified them-
selves to him, his one serviceable eye
gleamed with comprehension.
“I knew there was a catch in it!” he
muttered, horror-stricken at sight of his
ruined clothes and the memory of the
wrecked umbrella.
“Old Faber done this deliberate. ’E
worded the sergeant, too! They made
a mug of me between ’em; an’ there's
more to come every Monday! Not fr
me, though. I’m scratchin’ ’ere an’ now.
When it’s dark enough I’ll get ’ome an’
kid the old man a bit about ’is gamp.
Gawd, what a joke on me!”
Picking up the bucket he took careful
aim and returned it through Mrs.
Schultz’s only sound window.
“That’s that!” he said. “Now, if I
could only get ’ome without the mob
seein’ me I”
A window on the top floor was opened
quietly. The skeleton of Hogan’s hat,
thoughtfully weighted with half a brick,
was cast into space. Describing a grace-
ful arc, it made a perfect landing on its
owner’s dripping crown.
In this manner was decided the prob-
lem that worried Daniel Hogan. He
went home in the ambulance.
WALUES
BY
F.S. HIBBLE.
THERE was an atmosphere of impend-
ing unpleasantness within the gloomy
hut. Young Caroll, sitting on a
butter-box just inside the open doorway,
frowned as he watched old Sergeant
McKinnon stir the coals beneath some
smouldering billets of wood in the open
fireplace. In the murky dusk of the
interior Caroll could just make out the
white breeches of the policeman. The
hatter, he sensed rather than located,
was seated on crossed legs in the middle
of the floor.
Restlessly Caroll looked out into the
storm. The pelting drops of rain made
a grey curtain through which the limbs
and shrubs on the other side of the small
clearing were smoky-blue silhouettes,
struck large bubbles into the yellow pools
formed on the hard-packed soil just out-
side the door. The air boomed with
storm-sounds —the crackling wind and
swishing rain a tenor choir to the pas-
sionate pulsing of the thunder.
The world had gone mad. Outside,
the forest was like a creature relieved
from suspense, frantic in its celebra-
tion . . .
He drew in deeply and gratefully of
the moist air so heady with its mingled
smells of wet leaves and grass and sap.
That was clean. The hut was un-
doubtedly clean, almost fussily so, yet
there was a staleness lingering in it, the
acridity of smoked things. Somehow
Caroll thought of mummified age, a
simile which fed his sense of unease.
He could not choke back the essence of
uncanniness which the gloomy interior
incited. He could see the lanky, bearded
hatter, his bony, fleshless hands closing
and unclosing like talons, the fanatical
light in his bloodshot eyes.
A queer old devil. Somehow he had
given Caroll the idea that he was revel-
ling in the approach of the storm, shiver-
ing as from a sweet ecstasy when the
thunder pealed.
A solitary tongue of flame leaped in
the fireplace, burning steadily for a
moment, illuminating McKinnon’s tidy
white moustache, revealing the hatter
squatting with the thin trickle of water
spurting from the darkness overhead into
the palm of his right hand. The flame
sulked and went out, leaving a greater
darkness, and Caroll was wondering how
the hatter had located himself so exactly
to catch that stream in the cup of his
hand.
CAROLL frowned at the rain. What
was old Mac up to? In that flash
of firelight his round face, while not
smiling, had revealed traces of amuse-
ment. He was up to something. Poking
at the fire like that. Yesterday and to-day
he had been strange. After that dis-
cussion at the tea-table the night before
last. Caroll smiled. He had differed
with McKinnon
about clemency in
the law. The argu-
ment had arisen
when McKinnon
had stated that he
much preferred to
sober a drunk by
frog-marching him
down to the low-
level bridge to
throw him in the
creek than by the
other method of locking him up. The
cells soiled a man.
Caroll, still a little dizzy from the
earliness of his being called to the Bar,
letter-perfect, as it were, was rather cold-
bloodedly shocked by the old sergeant’s
outlook. There were, he pointed out,
standard punishments for fitting offences,
and any wandering from the text only
encouraged repetitions and greater mis-
deeds.
Perhaps, he reasoned now, he had
offended the old-fashioned sergeant’s
principles. The thought made him smile.
Sergeant McKinnon had always been the
background of his life, a spiritual father,
a gruff, generous old man telling the
world to go to the devil.
Petitions from the ratepayers in his
area had done more than any political
pull to keep him for more than thirty
years in the one station on the fringe
of these ridgelands, but perhaps Caroll
alone knew that the real anchor was the
grave surrounded by the white picket-
fence above the police court. Caroll
had vague, childhood recollections of
Mrs. Mac —a frail, haunting-eyed woman
who had taken him away from the
school down to the seaside for a week.
She must have died not long after that.
A terrific crash of thunder shook the
ground; blue flames danced a goblin
minuet across the sodden grass. Caroll
shivered, felt for his pipe. The light out-
side was getting darker, making the in-
terior of the hut deepest night. The coals
were a glowing heart. Caroll struck a
match. A' shrill burst of laughter whis-
pered through the crashing of the ele-
ments. Disgusted, Caroll flicked the
match away without lighting his pipe.
Why on earth had Mac been so eager to
show him this old hatter! The fellow
was a lunatic. Now he was screaming
something—“lf you’d struck a match, it
wouldn’t have happened, Jimmy.”
Caroll stared into the darkness towards
the fireplace. His own name was’ Jimmy,
and for the moment he had thought that
the old fellow was speaking to him.
Blast him! It was weird. The fellow
was not sane to live alone in the wilder-
ness like this. He was miles from any-
body, never went anywhere, had never
been known, McKinnon said, to leave this
gully. The tradespeople left his supplies
in a box on a tree beside a bush track a
mile away, collected their payment from
McKinnon,
The hatter wouldn’t deal with any-
body but McKinnon. Day after day,
years after year, he won quartz from
his mine in the gully, painstakingly
crushed the stone in his hand-driven,
single-stamp battery, and won the gold
which McKinnon collected periodically.
McKinnon was a friend in the wilder-
ness. That was like Mac. No wonder
(Continued on next page.)


3iiU3nd"mvaiJ
DRAW a CHEQUE
ON THE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
If you pay your accounts by cheque you have a
record of every payment and avoid the risk of
keeping money in the house.
It is a simple matter to open a cheque account
with the Bank of New South Wales, and the
various services that the Bank makes available
to its customers will be courteously explained
at any of the Bank’s 760 branches.
It is unnecessary to keep a large credit balance.
Whenever you have a surplus of £5 or more
you can turn it into an interest bearing deposit.
The Oldest
and Largest
Bank in
Australia.
■
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Over 750 Branches throughout Australia,
New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
202A.1936
REDUCED
CES LIKE THIS
FIT A MAZDA
IF you use a Mazda lamp
to illuminate the name or
number of your house, your
friends would not have to
explore half the neighbour-
hood to find you I
MLS7.
rjuJUnt
Ike
Co^&MTip
made in Australia
his own father had left him entirely in
McKinnon’s keeping. There was one
consolation there: his father must have
been a pretty decent sort to have been
able not only to read McKinnon cor-
rectly, but also to have been accepted,
Caroll moved restlessly. Quite sud-
denly he was conscious of his loss. The
world was a big place in which to be
alone. McKinnon had never explained
at length about his people, but his
mother had died when he was born and
his father had been killed in a mine
cave-in not so long after.
T , £ ~ , , , f
The fire suddenly obeyed the urge of
the coals and burst into flames Flicker-
mg tongues and streamers leaped to
gather in a cone of fire, roaring in piti-
ful mockery of the storm. The g oom
was banished as if by the sudden lighting
of a lamp. The pit became a tidy in-
tenor of a man s dwelling place—made
bed, orderly packing-case furniture,
cleanly-swept floor. McKinnon, a satis-
fled smile on his face, was leaning
against a corner of the fireplace, his
gaze fixed on the lad s face.
Caroll saw the tiny rivulet of water
wandering along the track for it across
the dirt floor to disappear at the bottom
of the slab wall. He was acutely aware
that the leak spurting down that stream
was not new, but very old and encour-
aged by the old man. He sat there now,
that scraggly fellow, his mousy-grey
beard and hair jagged arid frayed, the
water dropping into his cupped palm,
overflowing into the depression at the
head of the track. He was perfectly
still, in profile to Caroll, his eyes fixed
on the spurt—a trickle of crystal water
made by the firelight into blood. Warm
blood . . .
IT seemed quite suddenly that the ele-
ments were quiet. Perhaps the swish-
ing of the unabated rain was a pleasant
symphony undertoning the croon of the
hatter. He was repeating Caroll’s
thought.
“Blood, blood, blood! limmy’s warm
red blood. It spurted on to my hand
just here. It’s still here. Every storm
you do it to me again, Jimmy. Every
storm! Every storm!
1S voice rose in a shrill crescen o o
jubilation. A man satiated by fear, bu
ear become pleasure. He was roc ing
from side to side, the water spraying
on bis hand, his arm, his foot,
Caroll looked at McKinnon,
sergeant was very serious, yet there was
pain in his eyes. Like a stern father
atching the pun ishment of his child . . .
Carol f fdt JU stood up to lean against
{he door jamb xhe spra y in g ra in wet
the j of his trousers. He had the desire
to run out into the storm to the horses,
Behind him he heard McK innon scolding,
» Shake yourself out of it . ft’s gone,
It>s , water now . Come on. The
, wants it wherds your month’s tak-
-C, Q u j ck »
Xbe
CarolPs ‘stubbornly-shaped jaw set
firmer, and he lunged out into the rain.
AN hour later, with the misting rain
throwing a glorious bow across the
heavens as it caught the rays of the sun
breaking through the passing cloud
banks, McKinnon led the two saddled
horses down the small clearing to where
Caroll was standing saturated and miser-
able against the bole of a great coach-
wood. Caroll’s mouth was a compressed,
thin line. He met McKinnon’s tolerat-
ing gaze squarely.
“Is that my father?” The sharpness of
his tone startled even himself,
“No, son.” McKinnon shook his head,
“But we’d best be on our way back.”
Caroll was reluctant, but presently the
two police horses were ambling the kinks
out of their rain-battered bodies through
the dripping scrub. McKinnon was talk-
ing about something, but Caroll heard
him with only one ear. There was some-
thing about punishment. Imprisonment
wasn’t full punishment. A man sweated
worse under the drive of his conscience.
Like that hatter back there. He wasn’t
mad, he was just suffering. Suffering hell.
“Any fool could see that,” Caroll in-
terrupted. “Prison would never torture
him like he is convicting himself. The
man is terrified of storms, of that water
that he calls blood, yet he laps his fear
in a kind pf ecstasy. It thrills him. He
was so tremendously eager yet afraid
when the storm was brewing. Blood.
What did he mean by that? Has he
murdered somebody?”
McKinnon had reined in his beast,
swung it half on so that he could look
earnestly into the boy’s face. “Twenty-
seven years ago, in the height of just
such a storm as the one just gone, that
old man, crazy with liquor, slit the
throat of his equally tipsy mate. Blood
must have sprayed on his hand. Every
storm that blood sprays again. I never
found the body. Perhaps I didn’t look
too hard.”
“So he didn’t go up?”
“You’ve seen him. Was it needful?”
Caroll looked back through the drip-
ping scrub. Slowly he shook his head.
“It would be hard to find a greater
punishment. But why did you let
him”
“He had a duty to perform. In gaol
he would have been unable to do it,
even if they had not hanged him.”
He felt in his pocket, handed a small
ingot of gold to Caroll. It was no bigger
than a wooden matchbox, but its weight
made the boy shiver.
“He had to educate you.”
The ingot dropped from Caroll s
fingers, plonked into the muddy soil.
“You said”
“No, he’s not your father.”
He nodded in agreement to the look
in the boy’s eyes. “He was his mate.’
Flame glimmered behind the grey
depths of Caroll’s eyes and his fingers
slowly curled into fists. His eyes looked
straight ahead into nowhere. McKinnon
felt with him the pain of visualising that
death —but was silent. -Presently, when
the boy released a deep looked
down at his hands, he asked: “Learnt
anything?”
The boy met his gaze squarely, and
there was the suggestion of a smile
loosening the corners of his tightly-
closed mouth.
“I’ll consider that frog-marching atti-
tude. It strikes me it will be inter-
esting.”
McKinnon reached over to place a
hand on his arm. ‘ f l didn’t want you to
forget that you were human when you
got to the Bar. What are you after?
he ended, as Caroll started to dismount.
“The gold. It’s yours.” He grinned. “But
I’ll suppose sentimental actions”
Caroll dug the ingot out of the wet
ground, wiped it on his trousers, admired
it. He shook his head, put it in his
pocket.
“It belongs to me. I’ll keep it.”
McKinnon laughed. “You’ll do, son;
that’s the lawyer in you.”
WHERE NONE
PURSUED
BY CON DREW.
I AIN’T ever told you birds about the
time me and Sydney Joe was makin’
a book on the races in Western
Queensland.
Well, we started off at Dalby with a
pretty small bank and worked the coun-
try meetings with fair success until
we stood up to bet at a two days’ meetin’
on a course at a bit of a township on
the railway line. Then Dr. Gloom
appeared on the scene. The first day five
straight favorites kicked the rungs out
of our ladder of luck, and the second day
was worse. One after another well-
backed horses rolled home. When the
second-last race came round we had fif-
teen bob in the bag.
“There’s only one thing to do,” says
Joe, lookin’ at his race card,
“We’ll go for the gloves in the next
race and make a book for Sweet Song.
Daybreak will be a red-hot favorite and
we’ll sail right into him.”
“Why make a book for Sweet Song?”
I asks.
“Because I got the drum on the way
out to the course that he was tryin’,” Joe
come back. “I looked him over at
lunchtime and I like the way he’s put
together.”
“H’m,” says I. “We’d be takin- a
pretty big risk, wouldn’t we?”
“As how?”
“Making a book with fifteen bob. Sup-
posin’ we ain’t able to pay out?”
“If we can’t pay out we can’t, that’s
all,” says Joe. “I didn’t come here to
act as Santa Claus for a crowd of milk-
men and plough-pushers. You get busy
on that pencil and stick the bets down.”
Straightening himself up he gave tongue.
“Even money the field,” he yelled.
“Evens the field.”
A crowd of braves collected, as they
always do when a man first opens up on
a race, and looked him over. Most of
them were after the favorite, Daybreak,
and Joe, who was pretty near a thought-
reader, knew it.
“What price Daybreak?” says a flash-
lookin’ bloke in a wide felt hat.
“Evens,” says Joe, holdin’ out his
hand. “How* much?”
“Nothin’ at that price,” says the punter.
“I’ll take your three to one.”
Daybreak was evens everywhere, and
Joe skewered the flash man with a look.
“Take the bung out of your brain
chamber,” says Joe. “Do you
came here for the good of me health?”
The flash bloke moved away and Joe
turned to the waiting crowd.
“Well, come on,” he said. “You ain’t
got too much time if you want to back
Daybreak. He’ll be
odds on directly.
Even money the
field.”
The punters
hung back and Joe
lets out a laugh.
“All right,” he
said. “I’ll run up
the scale a bit.
Who wants five to
four?”
That brought them, and soon Joe was
shovelling money into the bag as busy
as a one-legged sword-dancer. It took
me all me time to stick the wagers down,
let me tell you. Joe was a fast worker
when he got goin’ properly.
After a bit I nudged his elbow.
“That’s enough of Daybreak,” I says.
“He’S taking out forty quid.”
“What odds?” laughed Joe. “He’s got
to win, ain’t he? Sweet Song will give
him such a towellin’ up that he’ll think
he’s towin’ a steam-roller.” He kept
on layin’ Daybreak for a bit, and then
he eases up.
“That’s all I want of Daybreak,” he
announced.
THE crowd moved away grumbling and
Joe dug into the other horses.
“Three to one Saltbush,” he bellowed.
“Four to one Bright Light, sixes Wabash
or Montillo, sevens Sir Ronald. Give it
a name. I’ll bet the top of the odds.”
The punters came at some of the
horses, and soon we had a fairly good
book.
“How is she lookin’?” asks Joe,
leanin’ over to me.
“Pretty fair,” says I, “but we’re still
goin’ up for a tenner. You’d better get
some more horses in.”
“What’s the good of that?” says Joe.
“We’ve got to give ourselves a chance,
haven’t we?”
“We’re givin’ ourselves a chance by
not layin’ Sweet Song,” says I, “and he’s
four to one in the betting everywhere.
Open your shoulders out and dig into it,
you loafer.”
“All right,” says Joe with a grin. “A
man ought to get sandbagged for doin’
it, though.”
He tried to get some more short-price
horses in, but a fresh rush had come for
Daybreak and the punters wouldn’t
budge.
“By cripes, they have dug their toes
into the ground,” said I, “and the horses
are on their way to the post. What’ll we
do if we can’t pay out?”
“You can search me,” says Joe. “Here,”
he yells. “Any price outsiders. Ten to
one Stormalong, twelves Flash Harry,
fifteens Minto or Ivona, twenties Bung
or The Count.” He worked mighty hard
on the outsiders for about five minutes,
but he might as well have saved his
breath. The punters didn’t want the
roughies.
In the meantime the horses had lined
up and were jockeying for positions at
the barrier.
“You ain’t laid a penny agen Sweet
Song,” I said. “Why don’t you get the
tenner out of him?”
“Because he’s our only chance, that's
why,” says Joe. “He’s goin’ to run for
us.”


fd
JAVA- %i ‘Paradise £r HOider^
Rich-colored batik. Brassware in
native bazaars. Exotic tropical vege-
tation. High above, against the blue
sky, a wisp of smoke from one or
Java’s volcanoes. At the bend of
the road an ornate temple where sit
strange, silent gods. Your holiday
this Winter? Why not?
Special first-class return fares for
Winter from Sydney and Brisbane,
£67/10/- to Java and £75 to Singa-
pore —no exchange—including side-
trip to magic Bali by local K.P.M.
steamer at no extra fare. Slightly
higher from Adelaide and Mel-
bourne.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Dalgety & Co., Etd., Brisbane.
LONDON’S LEADING
HOTELS
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger Lifts.
Garages, Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Running Water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Vegetarians
catered for if desired. BRIDGE. BIL-
LIARDS, TABLE TENNIS and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms; Single, from 4 guineas.
Double, from 7 guineas.
Tele: Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its new Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single.
64 guineas Dopble.
Tele: Padd. 6061.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8022.
Accommodation for GO guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8431.
Accommodation for 00 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as Bed-sitting Rooms. Owing
to their popularity you are advised to
secure accommodation —if possible—in
advance. Terms: Single, from 3 guineas.
Double, from 5 guineas.
The above hotels are under the personal
sux»ervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
EFFICIENT UTILITY
SERVICE
plus style* comfort & economy
The 1936 Ford V-8 Utilities are designed and built for
the service demanded by to-day’s conditions. They have
many features and special equipment usually available
only at additional cost. Make your own comparison of
prices, dimensions and equipment. Your local Ford dealer
will arrange an “on-the-job” test. Easy purchase terms.
FORD V-ft UTILITIES
....
THE
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
1936
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
F59.10.C
r A
CD
1
A
m
m
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Melbourne.
“That’s all very well,” says I, “but we’re
goin’ up for a tenner more than we can
pay. We’ll be in Queer Street if the
favorite wins.”
“Bah!” says Joe. “You’re losin’ your
nerve. Anyway, it’s too late to worry
about it now. They’re off.”
I scrambled up on the box behind him
to have a look at the race. A horse
called Sparrow had jumped to the front
and was showing the field a streak of
speed. Behind him came Sweet Song, the
prad that me and Joe were savin’ for
ourselves, and behind him came the
favorite, Daybreak, with a bunch close
on his wheel.
I was all for gettin’ some money out
of Sweet Song while he was in a handy
position, but Joe wouldn’t hear of it.
“Not me,” says he, with his eyes glued
on the field. “He’ll eat the rest of the
horses as soon as it comes to a show-
down. It’s money from home.”
They raced along the back of the
course and tornadoed along to the bend
in a cloud of dust. Sparrow was still in
front as the horses reached the home
turn, but as they rounded the bend he
swings out like a rainbow and Sweet
Song runs past him.
Joe lets out a bellow of joy.
“Sweet Song’s in front,” he yells, “and
they’ll never catch him.”
“Don’t you be too sure about that,” I
come back. “The race ain’t over yet.”
“It’s that near over there ain’t no dif-
ference,” yells Joe as Sweet Song in-
creased his lead. “He’s eatin’ up the
track like a strip of macaroni.”
And by all the rules of racing it did
look a fairly good thing. On races Sweet
Song with a good four lengths’ lead on
Daybreak, and I’m beginnin’ to think that
the money’s as good as in our pocket.
Then all at once the boy on Daybreak
wakes up. Getting down on his mount
he started to ride him, and the horse shot
forward like an arrer from a bow. Thirty
yards from home he was a length behind
Sweet Song and was leatherin’ it out like
the crack of doom. In another few yards
he grabbed him ; then, leaving him behind
like last year’s summer, won by a length
pullin’ up.
QUICK as a flash Joe grabbed the
money out of the bag and shoots a
glance around. The crowd had gone
over to the fence to see the finish of
the race and the coast was pretty clear.
“This is where we get off,” says Joe,
steppin’ down off the box.
“I hate to do it, but it’s got to be
done. We’ll leave the bettin’-bag
here.”
The liquor-booth was about 15 yards
away, and we walked across and ducked
behind it. Then we stepped on the gas,
and in half a tick we was out through
the side gate and on our two-mile
journey to the township. There was a
goods train leavin’ for Dalby that even-
ing, and we meant to board her.
After we’d been travelling about a
quarter of an hour we heard a rattle
behind us, and a wirewhiskered gent, in
a loose-spoked sulky came on the scene.
Joe put it on him for a lift, and he
pulled up and took us aboard. We
didn’t have to explain nothin’. He
didn’t give us time to talk. He kept the
conversation going about ploughs and
potatoes, and when he wasn’t talkin’
about them he was chinning about his
cows. He reckoned he had the best lot
of cows in the district. We was anxious
to put as much distance between us and
the racecourse as possible, and was
hopin’ he’d hurry the old neddy along.
We threw out a hint a couple of times,
but he wasn’t listening. Every now and
then I shot a glance astern to see how
the dice was rollin’. There wasn’t a
thing in sight unless you count the dust.
About a quarter of a mile from the
township the old bloke pulled up at a
crossroad.
“I’m turnin’ off here, gents.,” he said.
“If it hadn’t been for them flamin’ races
I’d have had time to drive you right into
town. As it is, I’ll be late for milking.”
“Races?” says Joe, cockin’ his ears.
“Have you just come from the races?”
“I have, worse luck,” says the old
bloke. “I took an hour off from me
work to go out and back a horse called
Daybreak in the second-last race, and he
let me down a tenner, dang him.”
“Daybreak!” says Joe, lookin’ at him
hard. “Are you certain it was Day-
break?”
“Of course I am,” says the old bloke,
“and I wish I’d never set eyes on him.
The flamin’ cow was first past the post,
but his jockey couldn’t make the weight.
The race was given to a chestnut moke
called Sweet Song.”
“Well, what do you think of that?”
says Joe to me as we emptied ourselves
out of the sulky. “And we went and left
a slap-up betting-bag behind. If that
ain’t stiff luck I’ll take on work.”
Going to “The Pictures.”
By R.K.D.
I BOUGHT my ticket from a ravish-
ing beauty in a costly shrine of glass
and chromium. I showed the ticket to
an alluring vision all feminine and cool.
I trod deep carpet silently to the dim in-
terior. I was wafted to my seat by a
delectably dainty seraph. In the subdued
light from concealed electric lamps, amid
a decorous hum of subdued sound, I
sank comfortably into soft cushions. The
magnificent curtain swept up, revealing
the screen. The lights faded gently away.
The programme began.
At the interval 1 found my way to a
luxuriously-equipped lounge. Smoking
a reflective cigarette, I thought back
twenty-seven years, to the days of the
“flickers” in Waddington’s tent. I would
join other bare-kneed boys of my own
age in Parramatta-road, Annandale, on
Saturday afternoon. Paying our three-
pences at the tiny window of a weather-
board “ticket-office” (rather like an
elongated kennel) we would select a “free
gift” from a wooden table covered with
glittering trinkets and enter the big
marquee.
We were always early in order to gain
possession of good chairs, which we
knew would be desired by adult patrons
arriving later, and also to ensure that we
should miss none of the excitement pre-
liminary to the show. On good days
the “chucker-out” would have five or six
evictions to attend to before the show
started—each to the accompaniment of
encouraging shouts and partisan yells.
A number of high-powered lamps hung
high in the tent flung a garish light over
the interior. Bright enough for parties
to recognise each other and exchange cat-
calls over the intervening distance and
the heads of the people between them.
When these lights were snapped off the
abrupt Stygian gloom would be rent by
a bedlam of piercing whistles and high-
pitched howls.
After a few false starts the first picture
would get properly into its stride with
a clatter of machinery from the projec-
tion box and “effects” by the pianist.
The projection-beam would show up
heavily in air thick with dust from the
earth floor. Presently, if our luck were
in, the “chucker-out” would come along
our way, crouching low:
“Hey, you boys! Give up your seats
to some ladies, and I’ll give you tickets
for another time.”
Thrill enough to be spoken to by the
great man in person. But to be given
tickets “for another time” as well! We
would be out of those chairs at once,
and would settle down quite cheerfully,
cross-legged, on the hard ground in front
of the front row.
Every now and again a picture would
falter and stop, with the villain, so to
speak, in mid-snarl. After allowing a
few moments as a sort of reasonable lati-
tude, the noisy element would set up a
prolonged whistling and noisy stamping
of feet. The “chucker-out’s” heavy
hands would again be busy, coping dras-
tically with the situation somewhere in
the darkness and dust.
A small square platform just in front
of the screen served as a stage. During
interval, with the lights on, extra “turns”
might be given on the “stage”—dancing
competitions, skipping competitions,
lightning sketches, instrumental num-
bers—or the freak giant of the moment
might be there to roam about the aisles
on show, wearing a marvellous uniform,
and dropping a two-shilling piece through
his signet-ring.
After the interval a so-called “illus-
trated song” usually preceded the re-
maining films. An earnest gentleman
with shiny teeth would stand on the
stage in a spotlight and sing a senti-
mental song while a succession of slides
threw colored pictures on the screen. The
one set of slides sometimes served for
several different songs —on different occa-
sions, of course.
Sometimes a whole reel of film would
run its course without interruption, and
a din of applause would be raised by the
splendid (though unreliable) tidings
flashed on the screen:
“End of reel four. Reel five will
follow immediately.”
Noble, stirring threepenn’orth! Not
thirty years ago. And now, what a dif-
ference !
I rose from my leather armchair,
dropped my cigarette into an elegant
smoker’s stand, and passed in again to
my three-shilling seat (amusement tax
extra).


ROYAL SHOW
Inspect The
EVER READY CO'S STANDS
In The
HORDERN PAVILION
THE annual R.A.S. Show is a wonder-
land of interest and instruction for
svery visitor. Not only are the great
primary industries of the State fully
represented but also our growing
secondary industries.
In Stands 74 and 76 you will see how
Ever Ready Dry Batteries can be used
in innumerable ways to obviate risk,
save time and make daily life generally
easier.
Every unit of the comprehensive range
of Ever Ready battery-operated appar-
atus is there for you >to inspect and test.
There are torches, hand lamps, cycle
lamps, automatic lights for cupboards,
etc., electric candles and dozens of
other home utilities, some of which you
may never have seen.
Also see the complete range of Radio
"A", "B" and "C" batteries in types
suitable for every make of set.
Do not fail to inspect Stands No. 74
and 76 when you attend the Royal Show
this year!
AUSTRMIASimTBAmRIES
m
EmSW
See an
Underwater
Torch, Electric
Candles, Battery-
operated Gas
Lighters, etc.
jlUUlUun' i
“VißßiiSl
ro RCH E SREFILLS £r-RA DlO BATTERIES
MANUFACTURED by th« ever. READY COMPANY lAO ST) LTD., sydneyJ
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“2nd Batt”; “Nkata” (B. 18/3/’36) is
wrong when he states that there were no
Australian troops in France and Belgium
before May, 1916. The Ist Aussie Divi-
sion was in the Armentieres sector in
early March of that year, the Ist and 3rd
Brigades holding the sector in front of
Bac.-St. Maur, where they put in a lot of
good work prior to Pozieres in July.
The sth Aussie Division came in below
the trench-mortar sector about the same
date (May), relieving the 2nd Aussie Div.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”: Pulque isn’t a com-
pound drink (B. 4/3/ ’36); it is simply
the juice of the American aloe, or agave.
The juice collects in a cuplike forma-
tion at the bottom of the leaves, and the
natives obtain it by sucking it up into
a gourd that acts like the pippette used
by chemists. The stuff is then allowed
to ferment. It tastes all right, but smells
like attar of carrion. Pablo must use a
deodorant stronger than cloves when he
wants to convince Dolores that he didn t
stop at the pulque shop on the way home.
* * * *
“Shillin’ a Day”: While the War
Office is issuing decent clobber for Pri-
vate Ortheris and co. to wear in their
holiday moments (B. 18/3/’36), I hope
it won’t insist on the retention of the
ammunition boot. So unpopular was it
that the men were found to be paying
for special boots or having the regula-
tion hoof covers disguised when off
duty—and this on pay which generally
averaged, with “stoppages,” etc., about
6d. a day. This practice was specially
forbidden under heavy penalties, and
the only men who got a chance to look
neat about the tootsies were the batmen
having a night out with their officers’
patent leathers.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Eighteen months ago the
announcement was made that, after much
experiment and research at St. Bar-
tholomew’s Hospital and London Zoo,
it had been established that certain snake
venoms would successfully stop the fatal
bleeding in the disease of htemophilia,
which had hitherto defied medical
science. Continued experiments and the
successful treatment of hundreds of cases
hav ® placed the matter beyond doubt,
ar, d one Britain’s largest firms of
manufacturing chemists is putting the
remedy on the market for the medical
profession. The poison employed is
obtained from the viper family, whose
venom has the necessary clotting quality
—the best results come from that of
Russell’s viper, one of the deadliest of
Indian snakes. A supply of these is
being installed in the firm’s private snake-
house, and experts will there “milk” the
captives for their poison.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: I must again join issue with
“Walkabout” (B. 18/3/’36). There is no
doubt about the permanence of the road
from Romani to Bir-el-Abd —“The Sul-
tan’s Way,” as the Arabs call it. Writer
was back and forward over it a dozen
times before railhead ran through to El
Arish, and could follow it to-day blind-
fold. If the big convoy of wounded did
not go to railhead at Romani, the first
field hospital on the road to Cairo, “W.”
might tell us where it cast up. Royston
wets with his brigade at Bir-el-Abd. Not
long after hostilities began between our-
selves and Jacko, I was close to him
while he was talking to Major Smith, of
“C” squadron, Ist L.H. —now judge for
the A.J.C. —asking him about the dis-
position of his men. The squadron had
been advance guard for the Ist Brigade
and was on the extreme left of our
position up against the bardawill. When
we were withdrawing later in the day,
Royston was going through his usual
stunt of galloping all over the place and
doing the work of 15 regimental ser-
geant-majors instead of his own.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile charactei ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re com
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.C.: “Old Man Jack” was ushered gently
off the premises... .A.V.N.: “The Swagman
of Blue Lagoon” followed in his wake
J.W.: Maybe “wonk” is Chinese for some
unidentifiable animal... .J.McC.: Not ill-
rhymed, but the story has whiskers on it....
A.M.: A tree may be “gaunt,” but how it
can be “strangely aware” has us beat....
M.S.S.: Your boomerang has one character-
istic of the abo.’s weapon—it returns to the
thrower HJ.G.: —
I have bellowed for louder song.
Shouted for stronger wine.
Sounds like an echo from “Cynara”... .C.E.G.:
It would have been a better sonnet if you
hadn’t dragged Lasseter into the tail.. • .M. 8.:
We understand the artist reckoned the vein was
worked out... .A.R.G.: A bit too cloying for
our palate... .H.A.8.; Good enough of its
kind, but hardly our kind... J.S.: You haven t
made much of a fist of it... .E.R.1.: She san
unruly lady, your Muse —can’t you knock
some orderliness into her? ... .5.K.8.: A chest-
nutty yarn, versified abominably... -G.A.:
Milk-and-water humor... .L.C.: Considered as
verse, it’s feeble, but you write a fine, rolling
hand E.R.M.: It doesn’t get past J. le
M.: Dialogue unrestrained, but it’s far too
rambling and doesn’t say enough ... .*S.McD.:
That’s the first prospector we’ve struck who
carried a folding table and shining silver and
cutlery, and the first tough who refused to rob
him because of a sentimental whim.... i.W.N.:
Couldn’t wring enough laughs out of that bibu-
lous prof J.H.: The yarn, otherwise well
done, has two weaknesses; a hard-boiled fellow
like Bronson would easily discern such a bad
florin, and he wouldn’t let such a small fare stand
between him and a j0b....N.C.: Nice style,
but the plot is somewhat thin; have another
shot G. de F.: Even a plot can be out of
date. That one is, and it also lacks conviction.
. ...M.A.8.: We’ve sworn to strangle the im-
maculately dressed society burglar on sight....
S.M.: Much ado about very little... .K.0.K.:
Mellerdrammer 1.M.: Divorce story poor;
“A Plate of Beans” should have been accom-
panied by a recipe for literary indigestion....
C.V.M.: Failed to see the point in the sword-
fish sketch... .J.G.R. (Eng.): “Terrible true
stories” of the eighteenth century bore us im-
measurably... .V.D.: So women who look
like snakes can be conjured up without going
on a bender!... .W.M.F.; You drew the long
bow until it snapped... .C.K.: Nothing wrong
with the construction: it’s just that it doesn’t
appeal 8.P.: Too slender a thread to hang
a skit that length on D.P.W.: No use
for news photographs... .0.T.: We read it
to a bullocky down for the Show, and he
said “ ’Strewth, ’e fergot t’ mention th’ flies.”
N.C.: As an expression of loyalty, all
right, but its poetic content seems a com-
pound of “The Burial of Sir John Moore’
and a round of churchyard headstones....
J.C.: Keep at it. You’ve plenty of time....
H.J.G.: Neither effort hits the bull’s-eye....
G.H.H.: Not enough grins in it to make a
laugh K.C.: Can’t quite decide whether the
brevity of the lines was due to the narrowness
of the paper or vice versa. ...W.E.B.: More
suitable for an English paper R.F.: Doesn’t
make the grade Anteas: Can’t swallow it.
, ...J.F.K.: Murder, blackmail, suicide and
mushy sentiment. They mix badly
E.P.C.: Not interested in tales of Bohemia at
the time of the Third Crusade Zum:
Send it to the paper that inspired it
L.F.W.: It would take a very interesting tale
to hold the attention when written in blue
crayon with scarcely any space between the
lines.., .E.D. (W.A.): You paint a gloomy
picture.... E.V.C.: Sorry; can’t use it—
A.D.: Your best to date... .R.L.F.; Awkward
and ugly 1.K.8.: Now, honestly, would
you laugh at that? R.R.: Have used jokes
on that theme R.K.: Idea worked to death
years ago L.C.: At the second paragraph
we were certain you were going to bring the
merry-go-round into it....R.M.: A happy
landing! T.E.McC.: You ask us to be
candid. Well, except for the pleasure you get
out of writing them, your verses aren’t likely
to bring in anything. The advice London
“Truth” gave you about song agents was
sound.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Long-deceased gag.., .N.H.C.; You
failed to capture the graceful outlines of the
mermaids at play A.J.: We want artists who
can draw, not those who can dash off a draw-
ing in a minute or two G.W.S.; Very
dead, except for the flies... .T.R.: More like a
blueprint than a humorous sketch. .. .8.J.D.:
Neat and decorative, but entirely without
humor J.S.: German-election cartoon might
suit French paper H J.: Percy Leason
illustrated that fisherman-and-scare-crow gag
15 years ago R.C.C.: Why this re-
luctance to provide your characters with
hands? C.T.: Has a certain rough merit;
more polish is needed E J.: Subject
matter is too local A.A.: No chance for
lightning sketches in white chalk on brown
paper C.H.R.: You have yet to learn how
to foreshorten L.M.; The abusive gent.
bulges in the wrong spots P.H.: Depicting
miles and miles of iron railings seems to be
your limit W.G.F.: Offer to supply three
or four sketches a week declined...
Grubby collection of misfits M.A.: Belle of
the Shearers’ Ball looks to have just clam-
bered out of a station well C.G.: Awarded
this week’s booby prize A.L.D.: Painstak-
ing student’s work, but not enough life in it—
J.T.: We want them much larger than postage
stamps, thank you F.W.: Misses in every
possible way C.P.E.; Too faint for suc-
cessful reproduction A.H.G.: An American
paper recently published the same jest—
N.G.: Rough-and-ready art, but keep on
trying... .L.S.: Why are your characters stand-
ing on their heads with balloons tied to their
feet? J.8.C.: Hopeless.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young man (24), Tas. public school educ.,
station exp. in Tas. and Q., desires position
on sheep or cattle station. Can keep books,
ride, and drive car., etc. —982.
Young man (23), N.S.W., extensive know-
ledge recorded music and technical and pro-
gramme phases of radio, journalistic exp.,
wants employment.—lo2l.
Electrical and mechanical engineer (45),
N.S.W., holding first-class steam, internal com-
bustion and electrical certificates, good know-
ledge refrigeration, exp. in handling native
labor, wants job, Islands pref. Refs. —1017.
Young lady, typist, Sydney, wants employ-
ment. —1004.
Translator, French-English, English-French,
requires work that can be done at home. —
1018.
Man, N.S.W., jack-of-all-trades, wants any
kind of work offering in western N. S. Wales.
—9BB.
Whereabouts of James Gavin Littlejohn,
chartered accountant, who came to Australia
in 1912. Brother Allan inquiring.—996.
To buy Memories of a K.C.’s Clerk, by
Francis Pearson, The Problem of Japan, by
Capt. Malcolm D. Kennedy, and the Growth
of Western Civilisation, by R. Flenby and
W. N. Weech.—9l9.
Words of songs “Bonny Black Bess,” “Phar
Lap” and “The Ship That Never Returned.” —
985.
Words of song beginning “As I went out
one evening from Tipperary Town.” —998.
Information Sought.
(1) In England v. Australia Test cricket, how
many matches have been played, and results ?
(2) Where played ? (3) Highest and lowest
innings score by England and Australia ? (4)
Largest and narrowest win in the series ?
1015.
(1) 134 Tests have been played—72 in Aus-
tralia and 62 in England; Australia won 53,
England 52, 29 were drawn. (2) In Australia:
Sydney and Melbourne 29 each, Adelaide 12,
Brisbane 2. In England; The Oval 17, Lord’s
15, Manchester 14, Leeds 7, Nottingham 6,
Edgbaston 2 and Sheffield 1. (3) England’s
highest innings score was 636 at Sydney in
1928-29; Australia’s best was 729 for 6 wickets
(closed) at Lord’s (Eng.) in 1930. England’s
lowest was 45 at Sydney in 1886-87; Aus-
tralia’s worst was 36 at Birmingham (Eng.) in
1902. (4) The biggest Test win was England’s
by an innings and 230 runs at Adelaide in
1892; the narrowest victory went to Australia
by 3 runs at Manchester (Eng.) in 1902.
* * * *
What was the “instruction to umpires” which
the M.C.C. issued regarding “bodyline” bowl-
ing ? —lO2O.
Here is the text: If in the opinion of the
umpire at the bowler’s end unfair bowling of
this type takes place, he shall adopt the fol-
lowing procedure: ( a ) As soon as he decides
that such bowling is becoming persistent he
shall forthwith “caution” the bowler. (6) If
this “caution” is ineffective he shall inform
the captain of the fielding side and the other
umpire of what has occurred, (c) Should the
above prove ineffective he shall (1) at the first
repetition caff “dead ball” and the over shall
he regarded as completed; (2) request the cap-
tain of the fielding side to take the bowler
off forthwith; (3) report the occurrence to the
captain of the batting side as soon as an
interval of play takes place; ■ (4) at the end
of the day make a report to the secretary of
the M.C.C. and also to the secretary of the
county club to which the offending bowler
belongs. A bowler who has been taken off as
above shall not bowl again during the same
innings.
* * * *
Can you give me some information about
L. M. Montgomery, the author of “Anne of
Green Gables” ? —936.
She was born at Clifton, Prince Edward
Island, in 1874, the daughter of Hugh John
Montgomery; educated at Prince of Wales Col-
lege and Dalhousie College; taught school for
three years, and for several more years wrote
for periodical publications. Anne of Green
Gables, first published in 1908, was originally
intended as a short serial which she had been
commissioned to write for a Sunday-school
paper, but as the story developed she decided
to make a full-length book of it, and thus laid
the foundation of a successful writing career.
Married in 1911 the Rev. Ewan Macdonald,
a Presbyterian minister, when she moved to
Ontario, Canada. Her present address is
201 a Riverside Drive, Toronto, Canada.
* * * *
Brief details of life and work of James
f * Joyce ? —BlB.
Born Dublin 1882; graduated Royal Uni.,
Dublin. Studied medicine at Paris Uni., but
gave this up in favor of a career as a tenor.
Commenced writing in 1904 with stories which
make up Dubliners, and started his first novel,
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, not
completed until 10 years later. Married Nora
Barnacle and lived at Trieste, where Joyce
taught English. A book of verse, Chamber
Music, was published in 1907; Dubliners
appeared in 1914, A Portrait of the Artist
(1916), and Exiles, a play (1918), followed by
Ulysses (1923) and Pomes Penyeach (verses) in
1927. He is engaged on a companion work to
Ulysses, Work in Progress.
* * * *
(1) What is allotropy ? (2) Is it known
among chemical compounds ? —962.
(1) It is the name given to the phenomenon
of one and the same chemical element exist-
ing in various forms having widely different
properties. There are several instances of allo-
tropy known among the elements, typical
examples being carbon, which exists in the
form of graphite and diamond; oxygen, found
in common form and as the highly active
ozone; phosphorus, which occurs m the
poisonous and inflammable yellow variety ana
the non-poisonous red form; and sulphur,
which is known to exist in four allotropic
modifications. (2) No, the term “allotropy m
its widest sense is sometimes used to denote
polymerism in general, but it is usually re-
stricted to those instances of polymerism
which are exhibited by elementary bodies only.
The term “polymerism” denotes those cases in
which different compounds of the same family
have the same percentage composition, but
differ in molecular weight, as, for example,
ethylene, propylene and butylene.
* ♦ ♦
I have a solitaire board and marbles, but
do not know how to play the game. (1 ) How
many marbles are required ? (2) How is the
game played? —941.
(1) 32 —one less than the number of hollows.
(2) Any hollow can be left vacant. Procedure
of the game is a bit like draughts, save that a
man can be taken by skipping over it to a
vacant hollow sideways or diagonally in any
direction. Starting with one marble in the
hand, the game is to take off all the other
marbles, always taking by skipping to an
adjacent vacant hollow. Fuff particulars will
be found in Hoyle’s Games Modernised, by
L. H. Dawson (Routledge).
* * * *
Numbers of passengers and crew aboard the
Mono Castle, and how many of each survived
the disaster ? —BO4.
Out of 318 passengers and a crew of 240,
237 passengers and 187, of the crew were
rescued.
* * * *
(I) Is the Hallstrom semi-automatic refriger-
ator manufactured in Australia ? (2) Capacity
of cabinet ? (3) Can it be used in districts
where electricity is not available ? (4) Will it
make ice ? (5) Any moving machinery ? (6)
How is it operated ? —6OB.
(1) Yes, by E. Hallstrom, 462-464 Willoughby-
road, Willoughby, N.S.W. (2) It is built in
three sizes, 2, 5 and 10 cub. ft. (3) Yes,
lighting kerosene is used. (4) Yes, it is
equipped with an icetray for this purpose. (5)
No. (6) The boiler containing the refrigerant
is heated for about two hours daily with a
special oil-burning lamp, which automatically
goes out when the heating period is complete.
* * * *
How to tint electric lamp bulbs red or
blue?— 62l.
Wash the bulb in soap and water and dry.
Then dip the bulb in a bath made by breaking
up the whites of two eggs in a pint of water
and filtering, and hang up to dry. Dissolve
sufficient aniline color in photographer’s col-
lodion, making the color light rather than deep,
and apply two or three coats to the bulb.
The preparation can be easily removed with
alcohol or sulphuric ether, but it is not affected
by water.
* * * *
Recipe for making office paste from flour
and other easily-obtainable ingredients ? —9890.
Place one breakfast cup of water in a small
pot, add half teaspoon powdered alum, and
bring to the boil. Mix one dessertspoon plain
flour in a cup with a little cold water to a
smooth, rather thin paste. Stir quickly into the
boiling water, and boil until it looks like opal,
stirring all the time; takes only a few minutes.
Boil gently for five minutes, remove from the
fire, and stir in one small teaspoon essence of
cloves. Stir thoroughly and pour into old
cold-cream jars with screw tops; store in a
cool place. More flour will make a thicker
paste; there must be no lumps in the flour
when added to the boiling water. Rice flour
also makes a good paste; cornflour makes a
more transparent paste.
* * * *
(1) Names of Sydney wholesale electrical
firms ? (2) Firms handling second-hand elec-
trical apparatus ? (3) Freight rates per cwt.
or per cub. ft., Sydney to Cairns ? —565.
(1) Australian General Electric Co., 93
Clarence-street; British General Electric Co.,
93 Clarence-street; W. G. Watson and Co.,
279 Clarence-street. (2) A. Gibbons, 255
Sussex-street, Sydney (electrical machinery). (3)
50s. per ton or per 40 cub, ft. Minimum,
up to 2 cub. ft. or lewt., 65.; over 2 cub. ft.
or lewt. up to 6 cub. ft. or 3cwt., 10s.; over
6 cub. ft. or 3cwt. up to 12 cub. ft. or 6cwt.,
15s.
* * # *
What is the title of the husband of Lady
Mary Bowes-Lyon, sister of the Duchess of
York ? Is he English or a Scot ? What is his
age, and has he any sons or brothers living ?
—783.
He is Sidney Herbert, 16th Baron Elphin-
stone, of Stirling, Scotland. He was born July
27, 1869, and is the second son of the 15th
baron, his elder brother, the heir, having died
in 1890; he has one surviving brother, Mount-
stuart William, born May 5, 1871. By his
marriage with Lady Mary Bowes-Lyon he has
two sons, John Alexander, Master of Elphin-
stone, born March 22, 1914, and Andrew
Charles Victor, born November 10, 1918, as
well as three daughters.
* * * *
A preparation for oiling silk or duck, giving
a black, glazed finish ? —394.
Apply several thin coats of a cellulose
lacquer. Oilskins are usually prepared by
treating the fabric with a mixture of equal
parts of boiled linseed oil and gold size.
* * * *
(1) How to compute the capacity, in gals.,
of a cylindrical tank, knowing its height and
diameter ? (2) A square tank ? (3) Number
of gals, to a cub. ft. ? (4) Weight of one cub.
ft. of water? (5) Weight of one gal. of
water ? —706.
(1) Multiply the height in feet by the square
of the diameter in feet, and multiply the
product by 4.9. For example, a tank 6ft.
diameter and 10ft. high will have a capacity
of 10 x6x 6 x 4.9, or 1764 gals (2)
Multiply the height by the length and the
product by the breadth, all in feet. This will
give the volume in cub. ft. To convert into
gals., multiply the volume by 6.24. For ex-
ample, a tank 6ft. x 6ft. x sft. will have a
capacity of 6 x 6 x 5 x 6.24, or 1123 gals.
(3) 6.24; more accurately, 6.2354. (4) 62.41 b.
at 0 degrees C. (5) 101 b.
* * * *
(1) Address of a bookplate society in Syd-
ney ? (2) Particulars and costs of bookplates ?
—BB7.
(1) Ex-Libris Society, Sydney; hon. sec.,
George Perrottet, c/o Howard Smith, Ltd.,
George-street, Sydney. (2) A pen-and-ink
drawing for the purpose of a bookplate may
cost from two guineas upwards; cost of block,
10s. upwards. A lino.-cut costs from four to
six guineas, and is particularly sought after
by collectors.
* --K * *
What are the cause and treatment of inflamed
eyelids ? Does the condition cause styes to
form regardless of treatment ? —724.
Although health debilities tend to aggravate
the trouble, sore and inflamed eyelids indicate
a local congestion; the eyes themselves pos-
sibly require attention. Eyestrain in any form
should be guarded against with suitable glasses,
artificial light and irritative causes of any kind
being avoided where possible. Using an eye-
bath, bathe the eyes twice daily with tepid
boracic solution, and smear yellow vaseline
along the lid margins at night. Golden eye
ointment may be substituted for the latter if
the stye congestion persists. The styes origi-
nate in an infection of the lid pore, and on
no account should be squeezed. An iron
tonic might benefit.
* * * *
Constituents and uses of slippery-elm
powder ? How can it be taken internally ?
730.
Chief constituent is mucilage; tannin is
present in minute quantity as an astringent.
Although not frequently prescribed in gastric
ulceration, some benefit is to be obtained from
this drug’s soothing properties. For the same
reason it is given in catarrhal affections of the
stomach and bowel, dysentery and intestinal
colitis. Prepare by adding 2oz. slippery-elm
powder to one pint of water; boil for 10
minutes, then strain through a layer of muslin.
The adult dose is one tablespoon with water
thrice daily between meals. For festered sores
and the like, the slippery-elm powder may be
mixed with hot water as a poultice.
* * * *
What does immunity mean in relation to the
blood ?—126.
Nature’s protection against invasion of the
body by bacteria consists in the activity of the
white blood-corpuscles (leucocytes); the germi-
cidal property of the body fluids also conveys
some immunity. Certain conditions may hinder
the efficacy of these; disease is possible as a
result. Immunity itself is a relative term.
There are two kinds, natural and acquired.
In the latter there is seldom recurrence. Im-
munisation by the injection of living organ-
isms was the method of Pasteur, to whom most
is due in the development of protective inocu-
lation.
* ❖ * *
Nature, cause, symptoms and treatment of
coronary thrombosis? —498.
Coronory thrombosis is the medical term for
blockage of blood supply to the heart. As
with every organ in the body, the heart re-
ceives its quota of blood for use apart from
the normal circulation. This is carried into
the substance of the heart muscle by two small
arteries, which are called coronary because
they course round the organ in crownlike
manner. The commonest trouble that may
occur in these vessels is disease of the arterial
walls. Loss of elasticity and thickening of
these walls initiate many faults, with possible
embolism or thrombosis. A definite endocar-
ditis, or inflammation of the lining of the heart,
may contribute to the local fault. Immediate
medical supervision is the first requirement.
Rest, the avoidance of extremes and a restricted
diet are incidentals to medicinal treatment.
(1) Cause of restless sleep and flatulence ?
What is the treatment in either case ? (2) Are
the livery and acid subjects two distinct types ?
—334.
Restless sleep must not be confused with in-
somnia. In the former case there is a ner-
vous stimulus that disturbs the normal rest.
However, these forms of restlessness may be
associated in comparative terms as (a) insomnia
caused by pain, etc., ( b ) toxic influences in
the blood (sleeplessness induced by stimulants,
coffee, alcohol and tobacco excess), (c) psychi-
cal causes (grief, shock and mental anxiety).
In all cases the cause must be determined and
removed. Indigestion, with flatulence, etc., is
a frequent contributing fault. Treat flatulence
with a simple diet; avoid liquids with meals,
and take an antacid bismuth-and-soda mixture
thrice daily. (2) The “liver” subject is
not necessarily an acid type. Possibly your
reference is to the alkaline and acid constitu-
tion. There is a marked difference in subjects
of either type; complexion color, hair, etc.
The former is usually inclined to “livery,”
lethargic habits, whereas the acid or positive
(latter) is active, alert and of a nervous, highly-
strung disposition. These states dominate
metabolism and organic health.
* * * *
Is it a fact that Huguenots, driven from
France, settled in America ? —955.
Yes. Voluntary Huguenot settlements in
America commenced about the middle of the
sixteenth century. Henry of Navarre was
instrumental in forming settlements at Port
Royal and Quebec. New Amsterdam was
founded largely by Huguenots under Dutch
auspices, and colonies were also made at Fort
Orange, New Platz and elsewhere. The first
refugee settlement was at Boston; others were
made in Connecticut and Rhode Island, and
there was a large influx into New York, Penn-
sylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia.
William of Orange settled several hundred
Huguenots who had followed him from Hol-
land, chiefly in Jamestown and North and
South Carolina. After the Revocation of the
Edict of Nantes many large settlements were
formed, the last being New Bordeaux in 1764.
Flights from the existing French settlements
to the English colonies led to the founding
of New Rochelle and further settlements in
New England and the southern States, princi-
pally South Carolina.
* * * *
Is there a genealogical society in Sydney ?
Address and objects ? —643.
Society of Australian Genealogists, 91 Phillip-
street, Sydney; secretary, E. McC. S. Hill.
Objects, to encourage the study of family his-
tory, genealogy and heraldry.
Brief Answers.
A.S.: Before an opinion could be expressed
it would be necessary to know the ground on
which the divorce was granted in Germany. It
would be good in Australia if such ground
was recognised as one for divorce in our
States F.G.L.: The only mines in N.S.W.
where medical examination is required before
a miner can be engaged are the silver-lead
mines at Broken Hi 11... .S.E.G.; No, you
will have to suffer in common with other
creditors in the estate... .C.W.C.: Under the
agreement the carrier is entitled to charge only
on the actual measurement of the timber on
the load. He is not concerned with any
arrangement between yourself and your cus-
tomers unless there is some trade custom to
the contrary... .E.S.W.: After preliminary
trials in June, 1930, Peat’s Ferry across the
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.) was established as
a continuous service on August 13, 1930. In-
formation regarding the ferry is published in
the annual reports of the N.S.W. Main Roads
Department... .R.H.M.: Cobbadah, “place on
hill”; Arribri, “high mountain”; Attunga,
“high place”; Bolwarra and Bowral, both
“high”; Illa-langi, “camp on a hill”; Nioka,
“a green hill”; and Lubrigan, “rainbow”....
A.J.: A freehold property is one which the
owner owns absolutely, as distinguished from a
leasehold property, which is held by lease either
from the Crown or from a private owner.
. ...H.K.M.: Yes. The Pure Foods Act re-
quires that such drugs conform to B.P. stan-
dard. With tablets, the weight of active con-
stituents appears on the label... .C.J.R.: (1)
Medical attention advised. Disintegration of
thrombus is possible with strain of heavy
work, and rest is essential. (2) Limb usually
remains weak owing to tissue changes due to
the thrombosis. A chronic congestion per-
sists regardless of treatment. (3) Apply for
invalid pension; incapacity must be certified
by doctor E.W.K.: An insurance policy
falling due is not liable for the Queensland
income (unemployment-relief) tax G.L.M.:
Cannot trace reference to bicarbonate of soda.
Used as a wash (one teaspoon to pint of
water), it acts as a solvent —the alkaline reac-
tion is desirable in such cases. For definite
results, the combination With an antiseptic
powder is preferred. In such cases the con-
tributing fault demands attention, and exact
diagnosis should be made by a doctor
T.S.: In your case the Rinne test for deafness
indicates bone (mastoid) conduction of sound
to the auditory or eighth cranial nerve. Normal
hearing by air conduction is minimised by
middle-ear congestion and catarrh, The latter
contributes to head noises and buzzing in the
ears; there is no suggestion of senile nerve
deafness. Special medical treatment is neces-
sary P.R.: When used without caution,
photographic metof may cause a troublesome
dermatitis in persons susceptible to inflamma-
tory skin disorders. Avoid the cause by wear-
ing protective rubber gloves; otherwise rinse
the hands before and after developing in a
bath of 20 drops hydrochloric acid to one
quart of water. Ointment composed of ich-
thyol boric acid 1 drachm, lanoline
2 drachms, yellow vaseline to loz. may be
applied to affected parts twice daily
A.M.C.: Sheet mica is used principally by the
electrical trades, and must be cut to size.
Communicate with Frank Hambridge, 22'
Bridge-street, Sydney. Clear approved sheet
2in. x 2in. is worth about sd. per pound, and
6in. x 6in. about 3s. 6d. per pound, in each
case rough-trimmed ready for cutting. Scrap
value is about £6 per ton in Sydney. Market
is limited... .R.F.C.: It may be indented
through Abel Lemon and Co., 94-96 Harring-
ton-street, Sydney, the cost being from 12s. to
15s. per 0.1 gramme... .W.A.: First protect
yourself by obtaining provisional protection for
your invention. You can then safely disclose
principle and endeavor to obtain financial
assistance if required. In any case, consult a
patent attorney. See advertisements on “Wild
Cat” page... .C.C.: Write Registrar, Com-
monwealth Institute of Accountants, Trustee
Building, Grenfell-street, Adelaide C.H.:
(1) A person seeking divorce in N. S. Wales
must at the time of the institution of the suit
have been domiciled in that State for three
years or upwards, provided such person had
not resorted to that State for the purpose of
such institution. (2) In Victoria the term of
domicile is two years, and the petitioner must
not have gone to that State for the purpose of
petitioning. In S.A. the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1929 provides that “any married person
domiciled in the State” may obtain a divorce,
but the Court has to be satisfied as to the fact
of genuine domicile A.8.C.: Where a tes-
tator specifies in the will the amount to be
allowed to the executor the Court will consider
whether such amount is sufficient and may
allow more if it thinks fit J.M.; The only
meaning that appears attachable to the words
“no specified date” is that the vendor may call
up the outstanding balance at any time he sees
fit... .E.H.: The council has power to levy a
sanitary and garbage rate on all land within
the shire or municipality irrespective of whether
the service is provided or not to any particular
property. It cannot, however, make any addi-
tional charge for a service it does not provide.
N.S.: Write E. Esdaile and Son, 42
Hunter-street, Sydney J.J.W.; Mirror re-
pairing is highly skilled work, involving the
use of expensive plant. Send the mirror to
an expert for rebacking or buy a new one
E.R.: No estimate which would be of value
can be given. The earnings of fishermen are
always variable and depend on factors such
as suitability of gear, knowledge of grounds,
movements of fish, state of the weather, preva-
lence or scarcity of fish, market conditions,
etc. Experienced and industrious men with
suitable gear can by hard work make a very
fair living, but there are periods when even
their earnings are small M.K.8.: Under
the provisions of the Invalid and Old-age Pen-
sions Act the circumstances of the husband
and wife must be taken into consideration in
assessing the rate of pension payable, in that
half the total value of their combined property
is deemed to be the property of each. The
only property exempted is the home. It is
noticed that the home property is subject
to mortgage, and it is suggested that if the
mortgage were redeemed by the proceeds from
sale of shares a higher rate would be payable.
It is possible, too, that the wife is also eligible
to receive a similar rate of pension... .G.A.S.;
The coin is an English silver crown of Queen
Victoria, and is of the first issue of the reign.
Collector value in Mint condition is 6s
R. 8.8.: A cycle-lighting set is quite unsuit-
able for charging accumulators M.H.:
Jack’s Self Educator and Jack’s Reference
800k —both Bs. 6d (Many others mailed.)


i
' !OVAL AUTOMOBILE
0F austral,A
€SSS&
CLUB
GIVES MAXIMUM
EXGIXE POWER
AXU EEEIUIEXUV
TUT DAT,.
2^= aa «. tsp
-- - SES-i r»
* - -sa^Hssi^^Sr*
'r- -■■■• ’" W "" F -
* A, ’ pla, c *P*»Jlt<wf,
• tilt*'**' 7 Wff
i* p#p * tWT * «t » ■ -
srxH.i.'S «’
*■
. ? '•»• M. 4
f . 3 r»*
“* "*‘ t,,,f *'"’••«' -• 10 *
* *Xalab iJg** «
u^Dt S f *“> « *t«rt
100.8
TTet Hxuuxins:
C -XT a ” M w
* „ „
l^sauEuaia
'/i <
EAT WHAT YOU
LIKE—NO PAIN
Doctors know digestive upset can be serious. They
know,that hot burning acid can cause ulcers- —risk
of an operation. Simple to stop the trouble if you
end the cause. For this nothing beats Harrison-
Maclean Stomach Powder, a famous English formula.
Harrison-Maclean Powder provides fastest, harmless
relief, maintains the normal “balance” required for
healthy digestion, soothes raw ulcer conditions, and
helps the bowels. Chemists sell HARRISON-
MACLEAN Stomach Powder at 2/6 —be sure to see
the name HARRISON in front of Maclean if you
want the real thing. If any difficulty, order (add
4d. Post) from Owl Pharmacy, Martin Place, Sydney.
Eat what you like, when you want to —without fear.
Say ‘Good-bye” to INDIGESTION. GAS AND PAIN.
HARRISON-Maclean POWDER 1
GIVES INSTANT EASE.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
55
C
<5
m
i
I
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers-
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Adel”: S.A. opened its hundredth
year with an exhibition at Wayville
Showground, where it has built a large
“Centennial Hall.” But it still uses, for
the whole year, the awkward “cen-
tenary,” which the public insists on pro-
nouncing in any one of three ways. An
interesting exhibit at the show is a
locally-made streamlined railway engine,
claimed to be the first in Australia. The
nickelled front of it resembles a modern
motor-car radiator.
* * * *
“Bungaree”: I can’t help wondering
whether the present British Foreign Secre-
tary is a descendant of the Hon. Wm.
Eden, a British Cabinet Minister in 1787,
who in that year published a stirring
recommendation of the advantages
offered by New South Wales as a penal
settlement. He wrote:
Criminals, when their lives or liberty
are forfeited to justice, become a forlorn
hope and have always been judged a fair
subject of hazardous experiments. If there
be any terrors in the prospect before the
Wretch who is banished to New South
Wales they are no more than he expects;
if the dangers of a foreign climate are
nearly equivalent to death, the devoted
convict naturally reflects that offended
justice, in consigning him to the inhospit-
able shores of New Holland, does not
mean thereby to seat him on a bed of
roses.
Whether such a reflection would occur
naturally to the “devoted convict,” and
serve to solace him, seems a trifle
improbable.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle” : Zane Grey reports
having captured a yellow-finned tuna, of
around 1001 b., off Bermagui, and he
should know one when he sees it. If
these fish occur in the same seasonal
abundance there as they do off the Cali-
fornian and Mexican coasts, Australia will
to get in early if a high y pro
able fish-canning trade is not to be lost
f o reign enterprise. Big steamers,
fitted with refrigerated storage, operate
f rom j apan to California for the express
purpose of taking yellow-fins. American
vessels also work there, to supply the
h uge Californian canneries, which turn
over anything up to £10,000,000 per
season from their products. In addition,
the cannery steamers follow the migrat-
ing shoals far out into the Pacific and
south of the Equator. Australians will do
well to bear in mind that, once outsie
the three-mile limit, the seas and tneir
j n h a bitants are free to all.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus” remembers:
That drawing of Arthur Adams (B. 11/3/’36)
reminds me of the occasion when I last saw
him in his shirt-sleeves. It was on the royal
train in Queensland with Edward P. in 1920.
Adams somehow conceived an d, s hke for
another genial journalist, an Englishman who
cramped his own style by a vocal laying on
of lard.” As we struggled out of our bunks one
morning, the man from abroad climbed into a
weird array of undies, reached for lus pants,
grinned cheerfully at me, and tendered this
scrap of wisdom: Ai always think that one
feels so much haigher in the world when one
gets into one’s trousers, donchaknow! Pres-
ently we adjourned among the washbasins,
Adams followed, and lifting his voice in a
perfect imitation of the Englishman s, he in-
quired of me: “Ai say, is this where one
shaves oneself, does one?” It required then
the exercise of all my finest diplomacy
to prevent a war breaking out between Eng-
an(J Australia Incid entally, Adams was
very bucked because Edward P. assured him
that he had much enjoyed the Double-bed
Dialogues.
* * * *
“Barrier”: America is at last adopt-
ing the Australian starting gate, m use in
practically every racing country in the
world One Widener, who cuts a wide
swath'in Yankee racing, has ordered six
gates from this country, and talks of
using the walk-up start with the barrier.
Flag-starting has given as much trouble
in the States as elsewhere, and all sorts
of queer dodges like starting the gees out
of movable stalls have been tried.
* * * *
Every visitor to Verdun is taken to see
“the road that saved France and Liberty.”
Over it 7000 motor-lorries, braving shot
and shell for six months, carried food
and ammunition to the defenders.
Nothing like that could happen here if
Australia were ever invaded. Our Gov-
ernment Railway Departments and
Transport Boards would not allow it. All
traffic would have to go by train.
* * * *
“Groper”: A Perth fish-dealer re-
cently imported half a ton of the choicest
English fish: North Sea cod, halibut,
etc. Did any of it tower above the cold-
water snapper caught about the Leeuwin?
No. True, it had been in cold storage
for a month, but even against snapper
that had also been in cold storage it ran
a bad second. For a real treat to those
West End clubs someone ought to send
London a consignment of Westralian
cold-water snapper—which is . not the
warm-water stuff that comes from up
around Shark Bay.
i * * * *
“Shrdlu”: The ancient sea myth of
the Marie Celeste has now broken into
the movies. J. G. Lockhart was the first
to subject the alleged “mystery” to scien-
tific scrutiny—in other words, to prick the
bubble. The small sailing ship left New
York in 1872 with a cargo of 1700
barrels of alcohol for fortifying wines,
‘consigned to a firm in Genoa. This is a
dangerous cargo, and when off the Azores
it began to “fizz” the crew apparently
.sought to free the gases by lifting the
hatch cover. A terrific explosion fol-
lowed, which hurled the hatch cover into
the air and left it upside down on the
deck. Captain and crew got into the one
and only boat. Whether in the hurry,
and possibly the handling of injured men,
it was swamped right away is not known,
but certainly all hands were lost. The
ship drifted on, and was picked up by
the Dei Gratia and brought into Gib-
raltar. The evidence given at the Marine
Court of Inquiry made it clear that it
was simply a case of the ship having been
abandoned. The only davit which car-
ried a boat was empty, the falls swung
out and the ropes dangling. Even any
doubt about the cause of panic was
removed by the upside-down hatch cover.
Yet for 60 years the “mystery” story has
persisted.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Periodically I read a cable
about some humane mail-liner skipper
heaving to in mid-Indian ocean to supply
the needs of waterless and foodless Arabs,
pitching about in a dhow at the mercy
of sun and sea. Passengers crowd the
decks" and applaud the good deed. There
is another side to this business, as I
know from my old P. and O. days.
The destitute appearance of these
shirt-waving dhow crews is not always
genuine. On occasions after mail
liners had been stopped and a supply of
eatables transhipped, the same eatables
were blatantly displayed for sale —-in the
original P. and O. Co.’s bags —in the
native quarter of Aden or elsewhere. If
the ship gets well within range of a
dhow, and passengers see the “distress
signals,” it is more than the skipper
dare do to ignore them. A wise captain,
if he sights a distant dhow quickly
enough, will tactfully alter his course
slightly. It may be hard on genuine
cases, but mail liners have a contract to
keep.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There are times when trainers, as well
as horses, can do nothing wrong —and,
at other times, nothing right. Queens-
land trainer Tim Brosnan is going
through one of the happy periods. He
has Lough Neagh in rare trim, and is
“placing” him admirably.
Many Sydney people regarded the
eight-year-old Queensland chestnut as
lucky to have downed Peter Pan and
Garrio at Rosehill. Brosnan was of a
different opinion, and in the Chipping
Norton Plate at Warwick Farm his judg-
ment was vindicated, for Lough Neagh
(5 to 1) led throughout. Hall Mark and
Silver Ring challenged him in the last
furlong, and made a most exciting finish
of it, but could not pass the old fellow,
A short head and a head separated
them; Oro was fourth, Garrio next.
Garrio, favorite at 5 to 4, ran his race
in patches. Voitre decided to take him
up to Lough Neagh turning for home ; at
that stage Silver Ring went wide. Garrio
shifted out and Hall Mark got through
on the inside. At the Leger the three-
year-old was well beaten. Seemingly he
did not care for the easy run downhill
to the judge ; not a few horses are that
way at the Farm, The race will improve
him, and he should run a lot better on
the long stretches at Randwick.
Hadrian and Regular Bachelor were
co-favorites (at threes) for the Liver-
pool Handicap. Hadrian jumped away
smartly, but the Queensland horse stood
flat-footed, was hopelessly placed in the
first half-mile and second-last into the
straight. Tanwan pulled him on the out-
side at the Leger, and giant strides car-
ried him into third place, a length and
three-quarters behind Hadrian, who was
beaten by Cabalist in the last stride.
Heritor saw that there was no loafing on
the way; the “six” was carved out in
Imin. 12|sec.—the track record is Imin.
12sec., held jointly by Chatham, Casque
d’Or and Killarney. Heritor wound up
sixth; trying to outspeed fliers like
Hadrian and Cereza was unsound tactics.
Regular Bachelor carried six pounds
more than his Doncaster impost, and he
at once became a warm favorite for the
big mile. He looks certain to defeat'
Cabalist, who has Bst. 31b, in the Don-
caster ; whether either is a genuine miler
remains to be proved. Somebody won
good money on Cabalist, as he was laid
early at 25 to 1, and started at sixteens.
He was ridden by Voitre, who got a
lucky run near the rails, and went
outside one horse only.
Sarcherie was favorite for the Autumn
Cup—s to 2in a field of 16. Leahy’s
mare had the run of the race behind
Spear Prince, and took charge turning
for home. She then seemed full of run-
ning, but Dulcedo dashed up under the
whip and got her measure. Then Journal
(20 to 1), who had put in a long run
from the half-mile, came fast on the out-
side, and he beat Dulcedo by a long
head; Sarcherie, on the rails, and Wyke-
ham, in the centre, broke even, half a
length off. Mr. Kerry was fourth, fol-
lowed by Loud Applause, Spear Prince
and Sally. Journal has Bst. 91b. in the
Sydney Cup. He never looked better.
There is a doubt about his running two
miles, but if ridden patiently, as was
the case on Saturday, he may do it.
Soft Step cracked up after being pro-
minent for 10 furlongs. He was wide out
all the way, and covered a lot of unneces-
sary ground at the turns. Faith Aus-
tralia, like Soft Step, will need to im-
prove, though she was noticed running
on at the end. The race will do Spear
Prince a lot of good. Not quite wound
up, he settled himself by making the pace
so hot that the 12 furlongs were left
behind in 2min. 29|sec.
It took Fidelity, ridden out, Imin.
15sec. to win the first heat of the Fair-
field Handicap. Connottar Lad, win-
ner of the second division, recorded Imin.
13Jsec. Knight Colin Stephen’s filly has
now won four races and a second out of
five starts. She went out at 10 to 9, and
after running wide at the turn struggled
home from Jacko’s sister, Quizzical, and
Bonnie Legion, who is fast, but squibby.
Talking and Tonga chased Connottar
Lad home; the favorite, Siren, after
leading almost throughout, tired to
nothing. A performance scarcely befit-
ting a daughter of Valicare.
Osculum (7 to 1), who is raced by
Mrs. E. J. Watt, wife of the A.J.C. com-
mitteeman, romped home in the Cab-
ramatta Handicap from Lolorua and
Merrie Miller. Pandion and Panax dis-
appointed, being troubled by the turns.
Poi Bounce (10 to 1) had the easiest win
of the day in the Novice Handicap. He
belongs to a Wellington sportsman, N.
H. Smith, and had been shaping well in
the N.S.W. western districts.
* * * *
The Doncaster, to be run at Rand-
wick on Saturday, bears a very open
appearance. So does the Sydney Cup,
down for decision on Easter Monday;
and it would be safe to wager that 90
p.c. of the candidates for both races
will be at longer prices on the course,
especially on the straightout tote, than
those which have been on offer at book-
makers’ clubs. For the average punter,
ante-post betting in States where publi-
cation of the odds is forbidden by law
is a game which only fools play. It is
as silly as the law.
A feature of each. race is the very
strong Queensland representation.
Queensland horses in the Doncaster are
Regular Bachelor (9st. 41b.), winner of
the V.A.T.C. Futurity Stakes and the
V.R.C. Newmarket, each with Bst. 111 b.,
and Lough Neagh (Bst. 111 b ), conqueror
of Peter Pan and Sylvandale at w.f.a.
It’s not certain at the moment whether
Lough Neagh will start in the Don-
caster or in the Autumn Plate; but if
reserved for the mile race he must be
dangerous, particularly if the going is
heavy, • >
From Victoria come Hall Mark (9st.
1 lib.; winner last year with 9st. 81b.),
Valiant Chief (Bst. 121 b.), Garrio (Bst.
101 b.) and Dark Sky (Bst.); from Maori-
land, Cuddle (9st. 41b.), and Gay Blonde
(Bst. 101 b.). Perhaps three-year-olds Gay
Blonde and Heritor (7st. 51b.) will furnish
the most formidable opposition to the
Queensland pair. Heritor is an improv-
ing four-year-old in at a very ‘ light
weight, considering that he has won
three good races this year. Valiant
Chief and Garrio have proved them-
selves at w.f.a., though each has more
than Silver King carried when he ran
third to Hall Mark and High. Other
possibilities among the three-year-olds
are Prittle Prattle (7st. 91b.) and Lolorua
(7st. 21b.), who is owned by the people
who had Jacko. This Page has a sneak-
ing regard for Heritor, who, sedately
ridden, may be better at a mile than at
six furlongs, but it will be in no way
astonished if the race goes to one of the
Queenslanders or the best of the three-
year-olds at the weights.
Queenslanders and three-year-olds are
also strong in the Sydney Cup. For the
northern State Soft Step (Bst. 71b.), Spear
Prince (7st. 131 b.) and Faith Australia
(7st. 121 b.) will be racing. They were
first, second and third —in that order-
in the Queensland Cup, run in 3min.
2 Usee. —the fastest two miles on record
south of the Line. Soft Step then car-
ried 9st., Spear Prince 7st. 21b. and Faith
Australia 7st.; so Soft Step will have a
distinct advantage at Randwick; but it
is considered in Brisbane that Spear
Prince and Faith Australia, being a year
younger, have made the greater improve-
ment since.
Sarcherie has a distinct chance with
Bst. 81b. The three-year-olds are
headed by Allunga (Bst. 61b.). Garrio
has Bst. 51b.; but if he wins the Don-
caster he is unlikely to start in the Cup.
Wykeham (7st. 71b.) has come into
the picture, Nalda (7st. 71b.) and Sala-
mander (6st. 121 b.) are good staying
fillies, and Egmont (7st. lib.) has proved
that he can go a mile and a half at least.
Then Urunalong (6st. 71b.) is a daughter
of Magpie with an impressive finishing
run, and Loud Applause (7st. 41b.) also
has fair staying credentials.
Perhaps victory will go to one of the
Queensland contingent. The Bulletin
has for months had a profound respect
for Spear Prince (though there is a feeling
in Brisbane that cultivation of his speed
may have affected his stamina), and is
not going to discard him because of a
failure at Warwick Farm. Hall Mark
(Doncaster), Dark Chief (second Sydney
Cup), Young Idea (Sires’ Produce
Stakes) and Cereza (Cropper Plate) were
all beaten in the corresponding meeting
at the Farm last year.
For the rest, Allunga seems to have
a mortgage on the St. Leger and Gold
Rod on the two-year-old races in which
he is engaged. Still the chestnut may
not have matters all his own way; this
son of Chief Ruler (now defunct) is
probably overrated, and there are some
pretty good youngsters coming along.
* * * *
It was belatedly discovered that Valiant
Chief and Nalda had incurred 71b. penal-
ties for recent successes in Melbourne,
so they did not appear at Warwick Farm.
They will be at a disadvantage at Rand-
wick in not having had actual experi-
ence of right-to-left racing.
* * * *
Faith Australia is a powerfully-built
four-year-old bay mare by Australian Sun
—Beaupona, Australian Sun sired Cuee-
sun, winner of two Perth Cups, and In
the Shade ; Beaupona is a half-sister to
Parsee and Poinard, dam of Poitrel; so
she has staying blood on both sides. She
has been “up” a long time, perhaps too
long; still her last performance in
Queensland was almost her best. This
is her list for five months:
First Ipswich Gold Cup; Christopher
Robin 2, Sage Force 3; four lengths;
head; 9 furlongs; lmin. 53isec. Nov. 6.
Third Queensland Cup; Soft Step 1,
Spear Prince 2; short head; three lengths;
last at mile; fifth into straight; 3min.
21|sec. Nov. 9.
Second to Dulcedo Clayfield Handicap;
Harvest Field 3; five lengths; two lengths;
10 furlongs; 2min. 5sec. Slow away.
Doomben, Nov. 23.
Second to Bachelor’s Ad. Southport
Handicap; Hastate' 3; short head; one
length;. 2min. 6|sec. Ascot, Nov. 30.
Fourth to Spear Prince, Lominga and
Maranerito; 11 furlongs; 2min. 17|sec.
Began slowly; nine lengths from leader at
mile. Ascot, Dec. 7.
Third to Maranerito and Winubia —dead
heat; length; 10 furlongs; 2min.
Ascot, Dec.' 26. \ j i.
First‘Newmarket Handicap; Winubia 2,
Arboreal 3; four lengths; three lengths;
.12 furlongs; 2min. 30isec. (course record).
Ascot, Dec. 28.
Second January Handicap to Winubia
and Arboreal; • f-length; 10
furlongs; 2min. 5£sec. Ascot, Jan. 1.
First Foundation Handicap; Greenfelt
2, Moorenbar 3; three lengths; three
lengths; 10 furlongs; 2min. 5£sec. Ascot,
Jan. 30.
First (with 9st. 51b.) Australia Day
Handicap;. Lady Vim 2, Bachelor’s Ad. 3;
two lengths; .one length; 11 furlongs; 2min.
191sec. Ascot, Feb. 1.
Third Second Division Hahdicap to Coli-
rseum and. Wear Well;; t neck; length; 6 •
furlongs; lmin. ■ 16|sec. ; \Toowoomba, ;
. March \
First Whinstanes Handicap; Christopher
• Robin 2, King Baralong 3; four lengths;
two and a half lengths; 9 furlongs; ;
. lmin. 52Isec. Doomben, March 14.
Fourteen days after her defeat of him,
Christopher Robin won the .Toowoomba
Cup, beating Spearlensis and Brown
Force easily and running 10 furlongs in
2min. 4 3-5sec.. a race record.
Saturdays of sunshine keep succeeding
each other on Melbourne courses, where
people rush through rattling turnstiles
like sheep through a chute. Epsom,
within sound of the sea at Mordialloc,
staged seven events at the week-end. In
only one instance did punters prove accu-
rate in their judgment.
New jumpers keep coming to light.
Warpin, who landed the Beach Hurdle,
may not be of Grand National calibre,
but' is certain to prove useful over the
battens. Grey Lash was preferred to him,
but Warpin gained a neck verdict after
losing ground by running down several
obstacles. Warpin was bred on the out-
skirts of Melbourne, and is by War-
bracken, son of St. Carwyne, out of
a Trafalgar mare.
Carrana, who captured the Hume
Juvenile Handicap, is by Manfred —
Laveuse, a mare raced by the late J. E.
Brewer. The speed of Carrana enabled
her to lead all the way. She hung out
badly, and finished under the judge’s
box ; but Duffus kept the filly going suf-
ficiently well to score by half a length
from the fast-finishing Miss Honan;
Golden Glow, having his first outing for
several months, ran a most promising
third. By Verbius from Brilliance (imp.),
Golden Glow is a half-brother to two
recent Vic. winners, Charles Fox and
Rhodes Scholar, who are by Son o’ Mine,
and, if looks count for anything, he is
the best of the Brilliance progeny.
Carrana covered four furlongs and nine
chains in Imin. In the Epsom Plate a
new course record for six furlongs was
established by Threelake (7 to 4), who
set Imin. 12isec., and thus ‘took half a
second off the time put up by Some Hero,
from the local stable of Jack Holt, at the
beginning of last year. Threelake hails
from Mt. Gambier (S.A.), and the ease
with which he disposed of Gay Pop and
Polly Speck suggests that he will come
further into the limelight. He is by
Thrice from Crail, by Traquair from
Bonnie Lassie (imp.), . The late Agar
Wynne bred Threelake, who has plenty
of size and is a typical descendant of
The Welkin.
Notwithstanding that Favorite Son let
his backers down in the Epsom Purse
this three-year-old is on the way to de-
velopment as a first-class galloper. He
is by Constant Son (sire of Young Idea)
from Loved One, the dam of Amounis.
Rather green still and difficult of control
by a small boy, he came from a long
way back to run third. The winner,
Benthos, got up in the final stride to
beat Highway, who is striking best form.
Purana, a five-year-old daughter of
Pantheon, scored a well-merited victory
in the first division of the Somerville
Trial Stakes. Her owner, Frank Mus-
grave, is in Sydney with Dark Sky.
Purana won nicely from Finch (Green-
stead —Tangerin) and Master Motley
(Mr. Clever —Any Colour); the last-
named needed a public outing, and will
make amends soon.
Horses trained by S. G. Ware for G.
J. Barton, a M.L. sportsman, were un-
lucky at Epsom. Gold Fox (by Paper
Money) and Gay Circle (by Gay Shield)
were in prime demand for their respec-
tive races, the second division of the Trial
Stakes and the Cheltenham Handicap.
The chance of Gold Fox was destroyed
by a bad beginning, and Gay Circle was
narrowly defeated by Count Orloff. Gay
Circle has developed into a handsome
three-year-old, but is somewhat lacking
in size.
* * * *
Free Wheel, by Garrio’s sire Chival-
rous out of Fob Chain, is a nice cut of
a horse, and nice prices were got about
him in the St. Vincent’s Hospital Handi-
cap at Caulfield —sixes mostly, closing at
11 to 2. He beat eight opponents
handily; Greenhorn was second and
Parce Que third,
* * * *
“Hotham”; The V.A.T.C. has been
experimenting with the photographing of
racing finishes by means of the “invis-
ible ray,” which operates the camera as
soon as the ray is broken by some mov-
ing object—in this case the horses. The
apparatus is said to be in use on some
American courses, the photographs being
developed after the race and used as a
check on the judge’s placings. Ten
years ago or more much was made of
the success of a similar experiment in
Belgium, but nothing more was heard
of it after the first ballyhoo.
* * * *
“Sefton Park”: A quite recent craze —
it dates from the third or fourth year of
the Irish sweeps—is the purchasing by
Americans of tickets and shares of tickets
which have drawn horses in the Grand
National. Sweeps are illegal in the
U.S.A., and the deals are in the holdings
of British speculators. It is estimated
that 325 of the 718 tickets drawing
horses in the three big Irish sweeps arc
held in New York. English turf com-
missioners do most of the buying, giving
as much as half the prospective prize on
behalf of their clients.
Love returned from India in time to
help his club, Mosman, to win Sydney’s
cricket premiership. It had only one
loss—a first-innings one to Cumberland.
* * * *
Cambridge won the boatrace for the
thirteenth successive year. The margin
was five lengths, the greatest since 1929 ;
the time 21min. 6sec., the slowest since
’25.
FOR RANDWICK.
Autumn Plate: Lough Neagh
or Silver Ring; next, Peter Pan.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Gold Rod ;
next, Fidelity.
Doncaster: Heritor, 1; Gay
Blonde, 2; Regular Bachelor, 3.
Tote: Prittle Prattle.
St'. Leger: Allunga ; next, Viceroy.
Vaucluse Handicap: Mananui;
next, Bombus.
Sydney Cup: Spear Prince, 1 ;
Salamander, 2; Egmont, 3. Tote:
Urunalong.
FOR WILLI AMST OWN.
Easter Stakes: Rhodes Scholar:
next, Greenhorn.
Seaside Handicap: Phenomenon ;
next, Gay Pop.
Werribee Highweight: Bite
Again; next', Adam.


RIFLES FOR ACCURACY .
d
THE VERY LATEST
MODEL 69.
.22 Cal. Bolt-action Box Magazine Repeating Rifle. 25in. Round
Barrel. Equipped with Two 5-shot Magazines, one for Shorts,
other for Long and Long-rifle. Will handle the regular or super-
speed cartridges. Fitted with Elevating Rear Sight and Genuine
Lyman Junior Telescopic Sight. Freight Paid.
£B/10'-
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
iia
a
w
yVf
CHAMPAGNE
Vi
EMMS
SEUSCTBO
DRT
VtNTAftCS
SftGIAWO
IE
M.fauj,,.a,...;
N.S.W. Agents:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Doomben”: As mentioned in B.
1/4/’36, poor little Clements boxed
Micky Miller at Brisbane on March 7,
and though Miller spared his man often,
in the last round, as the “Courier-Mail”
wrote, “Clements was twice down for
Bsec.; at the bell he was tottering, with
blood-bespattered and battered features.”
Weights were given as Miller, Bst. 51b. ;
Clements, Bst. 11b. Two weeks later
Miller beat Blandor, a featherweight;
weights, as announced: Miller 9st.,
Blandon Bst. IHlb. For the fight which
proved to be his last Clements turned
the scale at 7st. 131 b., Donneley at 7st.
1311 b. —or so it was stated. Boxing must
be classed as a dangerous trade, but,
though Labor Governments have had the
ordering of Workers’ Compensation Acts
in both Queensland and N. S. Wales, the
lads (all “working-class”) don’t have to
be insured. In the absence of this pro-
tection against bad match-making I sub-
mit that a policeman ought to be present
at all weighings.
* * * *
“Leftook”: As a rule Sydney Stadium
prices are 10s., 55., 3s. and 25., plus tax.
For the Palmer-Kelly bout they were
raised to £2 25., 305., 205., 10s., 75., and
45., plus tax; “early-door terraces, Is.
extra.” Followed the wildest demonstra-
tion of popular disapproval (it was at a
fight between Americans from which
thousands stayed away) wit-
nessed at the Stadium since
the young Darcy’s day, when
infuriated Newcastle tried to
burn the place down. Never-
theless, it produced an ex-
ample of pure heroism. A
boss of the National Boxing
Club, as it calls itself, is also
a boss of the new “Daily
Telegraph.” Jim Mathers,
writing for that publication,
said:
On reviewing the position,
I am of the opinion that the
National Boxing Club should
reconsider the prices for this
[Palmer-Kelly] fight. It
would lose no popularity if
it reduced the prices.
Without discussing whether
the N.B.C. has any popu-
larity to lose, I suggest that
the Stadium announcer should
introduce a worthy scribe
instead of some third-
rate bruiser, for one night
only. “Gentlemen, this is
Jim Mathers, the gamest man
in Sydney.”
Footbrawl
“S tu r t”: S.A. Football
League has decided on an
independent tribunal for
hearing charges against “reported”
players. Its first members are Lance
Pellew, Tom Leahy and president Kelly,
of S.A. Wages Board.
* * * *
“Centre”; Arranged that an Australian
Soccer team to tour M.L. shall leave
Sydney on June 13 and play its first
match at Wanganui on June 20. There
are to be three Tests, the side returning
on August 1. It is 14 years since
Australians last crossed the Tasman, They
lost two of the three Tests, the third being
drawn. Of eleven other games the tour-
ists took nine.
* * H= *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union, which has more youngsters com-
ing up every year from the G.P.S. fif-
teens than it can find room for, has just
whitewashed the usual batch of youths
who found the roses and raptures of the
Rugby League not up to expectations.
All swore that they had not received pay-
ment. Reference to Subsection Hof
Section 1 of the Rugby Union rules as
to professionalism will show that this is
beside the question —the mere fact of
playing with professionals infringes ama-
teur status. Another rule specially bans
from the amateur ranks anyone relying
on a promise of employment or advance-
ment. The Union should read up
these rules. Its official annual no longer
publishes them.
* * * *
“Basin Reserve”; Australian Rugby
teams in M.L. have to earn their oats.
The proposed itinerary for this year’s
visit, sets down 10 matches for the
month’s tour, the first against Auckland
on August 15, four days after landing,
and the last on September 16 at Marl-
borough. There will be two Tests, one
at Wellington on August 29 and the other
at Dunedin on September 5. This is
Australia’s fourth trip to M.L.; of the
five Tests played there the All-Blacks
have won .four and Australia one. Points
scored, 94 to 50.
“And this is the man who bars nothin on two legs!"
“Tell 'em FOUR legs , boss — I'm feelin' well to-night."
The Nineteenth Hole
“Prestwich”; Jim Ferrier is reported
to have had a round or two at Hoylake,
the course on which the British open
championship will be played. And he
turned in a 71, just better than the pro.
record, at Carnoustie, where he will play
in his first overseas tourney—the Scottish
amateur on April 25. Among the entries
are Maclean, here with the British team,
and Thomson, present holder of the
Irish and Scottish amateur champion-
ships. Maclean was too good for Fer-
rier in Australia, but is reported to have
gone right off his game. Ferrier, on the
other hand, has benefited beyond all
expectation by visits of Britons and
Yankees.
**‘ * *
“Divot Digger”; The question whether
Helen Hicks, who is to visit us with Sara-
zen, is eligible to play in the Australian
open championship alongside the men
is causing a lot of argument. Perhaps
the best reason against Helen’s appear-
ance is that when a player wishes to
express his thoughts the presence of a
woman may cramp his style.
*** * '
“Crook”: A Tariff Board man has
estimated that a million golf balls are
lost in Australia every year. Presumably
he included those carried off by crows,
goannas, magpies and other ferce natures,
but omitted the thousands stolen by
loafers who infest suburban golf courses.
* * * *
“Victoria Park”: The Queensland golf
heads decided to exact an annual levy
of a bob a nob from all members of
affiliated clubs, proceeds to be devoted to
fostering the interests of the game, financ-
ing visits to other States for champion-
ship meetings in particular. So far the
prospect of a large fund being raked in
is gloomy. Not only clubs but district
associations are protesting against the
levy, and, as usual, the squealing of the
individual members drowns all else.
Queer how players and athletes hate con-
tributing to the funds of the sports and
games which bring them amusement and
often a measure of limelight.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”; The first Aus-
tralian Davis Cup tife against Cuba is to
be played at Noo Orleans. Doubtful
whether the tropic heat which is given
as the reason for dodging play in Havana
won’t be just as bad in the Louisiana
city, which is very little removed from
Havana in the matter of a steam-bath
climate at this time of year. The tie will
be played on patent composition courts.
H* ❖ *
“Milton”: Queensland has set the Ma
State tennis heads a good example in the
matter of getting the lion and the lamb-
in this case grass- and hard-courts tennis-
players—to pool their activities. The
first sign of the new regime has been the
appointment of three State selectors in-
stead of six—three men who handled
grass-court selections and three who
picked hard-courters.
* * * *
“Sideline”: The Queensland L.T.A. has
adopted a motion forbidding the nomi-
nation or election to the State council of
trade representatives. The rule has been
in force in other States for some time;
Bananaland has fallen into line under in-
structions from the A.L.T.A.
Miscellaneous
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland will have a
small but select Olympic team. In addi-
tion to Lovelock, who has been so long
in England that it is easy to forget he is
a Maorilander, the selected are
Mathews, 5000 and 10,000 metres, and
Gordon, Fisher and Arbuthnot, boxers.
Lovelock, of course, will look after the
1500 and 5000 metres. Dr.
Porrit, another resident of
England, will manage.
* * *
“Fitzcray”: It is expected
that MistahTolan will be back
at Melbourne in December.
Tolan is one of those ama-
teurs who jumped into the
professional game with the
glamor of an Olympic cham-
pionship still on them. It L
doubtful whether he has
made much out of his change-
over, since professional run-
ning is practically dead
everywhere save in Australia,
and in his own America has
been embalmed this 30 years.
The prizes and pickings at
the Australian meetings are,
therefore, not to be despised.
The French runner Ladou-
megue, who was barred from
the last Olympiad for tech-
nical professionalism, may
be showing in Melbourne
also. He still holds world’s
recordsT- i -for 1000 and 2000
metres and three-quarters of
a mile.
“The Gaffer”: The Vic.
Athletic League is to hold
elimination tests open to the
best sprinters in Australia,
the leading eight to challenge
Tolan over 75, 100, 130 and 220 yards.
The tests will be held in November, and
the championships will probably be con-
tested in February,
* * * *
“Splash”: The Cavill family has made
an international name for itself in swim-
ming. The latest of the clan to catch
the limelight is Rhoda Cavill, who took
the mile championship of N.S.W. in
27min. 2sec. without being pressed. She
has been wisely nursed and prevented
from over-indulgence in pothunting, and
is expected to develop into a real star
—another Edna Davey or Fanny Durack.


Weftless cord
in a 6 ply tyre
ELIMINATES 373.500
of these FRICTION SPOTS
?
jnQ
Cord magnified 25 times
jJunhrp
CORD
MAKES
BETTER
TYRES
E!
f WEFTLESS >
CORD IS
EXCLUSIVE TO
DUNLOP
INTERESTS IN
LOOK AT
THE SPOTS
and you will realise why
Dunlop discarded Wefted
Cord and adopted Weftless
fabric for motor tyres:
Length of
Thread in a 6
x 5.25 tyre .
Cord
ply 30
Yards of Cord Thread
that are subjected to
flexing 67,300 times in
100 miles travel . . . .
Length of Wefts or Cross
Threads eliminated from the
flexing section of t/re, owing
to use of Weftless Cord . .
Number of cross threads elim-
inated in tyre by use of Weftless
Cord
4,826
Yards.
4,150
Yards.
496
Yards.
1,152
Number of friction points avoided
through use of Weftless Cord in
Tyres by Dunlop (See “A”) . . .
373,500
This means less internal heat, minimising fatigue
of fabric and prolonging life of tyre. Weftless
Cord is the modern tyre fabric to meet present-day
motoring conditions.
Specify
Weftless cord tyres
and be assured of Greater Mileage and Safety


ASA
o
'Ns
*s
$
s
a*
f
A
»
I#
X:
"a
r
AA
#
I
X
N
(■?
! a
1
V
V
S-
W\
sS
XJ
m
A
\
K
,\ v
I >1
/
x<
Build up your strength, k ee P in “pink”
Make Sheaf Stout your daily drink
TOOTH’S
I
IN BOTTLES, HALF-BOTTLES AND BABY BOTTLES


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AUTOMATIC
GUNS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
25406/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or' for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s . issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
. ’Phone; BWI2IB.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
INQUIRIES invited about stocks and shares quoted
on all principal Stock Exchanges.
We are also in a position to locate markets in shares
which are unquoted and delisted. Write, ’phone or call.
Hodsons Investments Ltd.
INVESTMENT BANKERS ,
PACIFIC HOUSE, 249 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: B 2892
(All Departments).
Telegraphic and Cable Address: ‘Tnvestbank, Sydney.”
M”
i#*
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m
M
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Disturbing Influences
March, owing to the interest-rate
stone-throwing, was a disturbed month,
and April opened with tariff-wrangling
at Canberra. Figures were rushed out
to show that, near the end of March, a
credit of about £2O millions sterling had
accumulated in London towards paying
our overseas interest commitments. No
official announcement has yet been made
concerning the extent to which London
funds have been reduced by trippers and
those with capital to withdraw. These
invisible items don’t show in the trade
balance. But the Bank of Australasia
provided something like £2.5 millions for
this purpose in its last financial year.
Mr. Casey, who produced advance
trade figures for March, didn’t comment
on the likelihood of adverse balances in
May and June. Though wool exports
kept up towards the end of 1934-35, in
those months total exports barely cov-
ered imports. This season there will be
very little wool to go after April; but
overseas goods are still coming in at a
high rate, prompted partly by fears of
import restrictions, either through the
exchange or the tariff, later on.
Wool is still at a good price, and
wheat-growing is payable on medium
lands at present quotations. Butter pro-
duction, though severely affected by dry
weather in Victoria, has brought in
almost as much from overseas as last
year; and the Australian market has re-
mained at 140 s. or thereabouts a hun-
dredweight.
One big trouble at the moment is lack
of intelligent co-operation between
Governments and banks, between the
banks themselves, and between Govern-
ments and manufacturing industries. In
addition, there has been something of a
helter-skelter after easy money in the
Stock Exchanges, derelict mining holes
and other places, irrespective of the ulti-
mate consequences on the main trend of
financial affairs.
The Lyons Government has failed to
face the imports problem squarely.
Even in the case of cement, pos-
sibly less deserving of the protection
it has had than some other industries,
the position hasn’t always been fairly
presented. So far as the overseas trade
position is concerned, the path of least
resistance looks like coming to an abrupt
finish. Something has to be done ; and
until it is done the questions of ex-
change, credit and interest rates will re-
main disturbing influences.
Wool Prices and Prospects
“Murrawong”: The 1935-36 wool-
selling season, which has practically
ended, has been one of the most satis-
factory for years. It opened with values
payable to growers, and, with slight fal-
tering after the opening sales, prices have
remained on the rise. Auction clear-
ances have been remarkably good,
and the entire season has been free
from the sort of fluctuations which cause
clip withdrawals and heavy carry-overs.
The patchy season experienced during
the growing of the last clip was evident
in the wasty condition and reduced
length of many offerings, together with
a smaller and lighter clip.
At the moment, prospects for the com-
ing season are rosy. Although some dis-
tricts had a bad time until the recent
rains, graziers are in a safer position
to-day than they have been for years.
There is certain to be a shortage in sup-
plies from Queensland; many flocks
which were nursed through the drought
were wiped out by the heavy rains. The
clip from the southern States promises
to be a record. Provided a prolonged
hard winter does not upset calculations,
there will be more and heavier bales and
a more robust combing type of wool.
At present rates, that would mean a
lower price per pound, which, however,
would be more than compensated for by
the increased weight of cut. Stocks of raw
wool here and abroad are very low, and
the market should open in September
with an eager demand. There is every
indication that the finer free wools will
meet with a better market next year.
Although prospect's are bright, some of
the prices at which store sheep are chang-
ing hands suggest super-optimism. Half-
woolled merino store wethers are being
bought at figures which even their full-
woolled skin value and mutton value as
fats on the present market would not
cover, so it looks as if some people may
burn their fingers.
Present activity at B.H.P.’s Newcastle
steelworks is more than double that of
“Less noise, please — We're not allowed to advertise .”
the average for 1928, the last pre-depres-
sion year.
**. * *
Wheat was around 3s. Bd. a bushel on
trucks, Williamstown, last week. This,
though lower than the quotes of early
this year, is above the average for any,
month of 1935 except October, The
average for 1928 was ss. 2d.
* * * *
During the first eight months of 1935-
36 gold jumped into third place on the
list of exports, beating butter badly
and running wheat very close.
* * * *
About 2,070,000 bales of wool had
been exported from Australia to the end
a European well qualified to judge that
Australian cement is as good as any in
the world) shareholders during the last 20
years haven’t profited overmuch. Kandos
paid a steady 10 p.c. from 1923 to 1930
(there were no trimmings in the way of
bonuses); for the next five years the
average was 5 p.c. Now 10 p.c. distribu-
tions have been reverted to. Consider-
ing that investors always ask for higher
returns on cement shares (owing to their
sensitiveness to building activity) it isn’t
too much from that point of view.
Burns Philp, Carlton Brewery, David
Jones, Yarra Falls, Usher’s Hotel and
Australian Cement are some £1 ordinary
of February, an increase of 11 p.c. on
the first eight months of last year’s ex-
ports. Assuming that Australian con-
sumption is 300,000 bales, there is less
than 600,000 bales of the current
season’s clip left to go overseas during
the four final months of this financial
year. A large quantity of it went during
March. April may show a favorable
trade balance; but in the absence of a
substantial reduction in imports May and
June will have debit balances. Butter,
our third most-important commodity
export, will experience a seasonal shrink-
age in those months.
& * * * *
Permewan Wright, Ltd., Victorian
station suppliers and carriers, has de-
clared an increased div. —6 p.c., as
against 5 p.c, last year. The business has
been expanding considerably, and a
larger proportion of profits is being kept
in the business—lo.B p.c. was netted on
capital last term,
* * * *
After the Government reversal on the
cement duties (to be followed by an-
other on earthenware) Australian
Cement, the Melbourne holding co. in
Aust. Portland Cement Pty., strengthened
from around 295. to 31s. Kandos, the
N.S.W. holding co., remained around
235. 9d. (16s. shares). The cement in-
dustry has frequently been criticised on
the score of costs and efficiency ; what-
ever justification lay in such criticism
(incidentally, The Bulletin is assured by
shares paying 10 p.c. Market prices
are 71s. 6d., 525. 6d,, 435., 415., 31s.
and 31s. respectively. The appraise-
ment seems to be on the basis of past
dividend stability and future prospects.
Cement has never been regarded as an
industry of assured earning-power—it
is overcapitalised, for one thing—and
hotels sometimes have fluctuating
fortunes. At the other end of the scale
is 8.-P., which paid 10 p.c. even in de-
pression years, and from which something
extra is required soon to justify the
present price.
* * * *
The following table gives a progressive
comparison of some important indexes
in the Australian economy;
Bank Common-
Deposit wealth
Rate, Consols and T.U. Nomi-
-3 Mos.- (1938-47) State Unem- nal
2 Yrs., Yield, Tax’n, ploy- Wage
June, p.c. p.c, per Head. ment. Index.
1931 3-4 £l3/5/6 27.6 p.c. 1764
1932 2i-34 13/4/8 30.0 „ 1672
1933 2-3“ £3/14/- 14/3/1 25.7 „ 1595
1934 2-2* 3/2/6 13/12/11 20.9 „ 1592
1935 H-2i 3/9/6 14/4/- 17.8 „ 1605
March,
1936 2-3 3/17/6 13.7* „ 16091
* Dec., 1935. t Sept., 1935.
Of the 1935 taxation, £5 13s. per head
represented customs and excise, as
against £4 6s, Bd. in 1932. For the
year to June, 1936, this figure will be
higher still. The index of real wages
(indicating their buying power) was
1175 at the opening of the table and
1123 at the close.
* * * *
Australian factories are of increasing
importance as employers of labor and
creators of a market for the country’s
rural produce. About a tenth of our
wool clip is taken by Australian textile
mills. Over 400,000 people are directly
employed in Commonwealth factories ;
many more are given indirect employ-
ment. If the amount of manufactured
goods used in this country were all im-
ported, our exports would only go a small
way towards paying for them. Manufac-
turers did a lot toward saving this coun-
try’s credit during 1930-32, when export
values fell so precipitously.
* * * *
The largest single item in our imports
for the eight months was machinery and
metal manufactures —£16.7 millions ster-
ling, up £4.2 millions. Textiles, the next-
biggest item (£B.B millions), were down
slightly. Motor-car chassis (£4.2 millions)
were up £1.4 millions, and motor spirit
(£2.7 millions) was higher by £600,000.
Tea at £1.4 millions was a larger item
than either whisky or tobacco.
* * $
North Broken Hill’s unaltered quarterly
handout of 3s. 6d. a share on March 27
was at the rate of 70 p.c. p.a., as against
40 p.c. averaged during the year to
June 30, 1935. The gross yield to the
buyer at £8 is a trifle under 9 p.c.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Zinc Corp. shares eased to 81s. 6d. towards
mid-week. All Barrier stocks were weaker,
though lead and spelter remained fairly firm
in London. Mr. Lyell, the Tasmanian copper
mine, rose to 245. 6d. following reports of
further rainfall at Lake Margaret. The metal
continued steady around £4l (stg.) in London.
Cox Bros, ords., one of the most speculative
issues on the list, sold down to 355., after sales
at 455. prior to the influence of increased inter-
est rates. On Friday they were back to 395.
Broken Hill Prop., G. J. Coles and one
or two other leading issues were a shade
weaker.
Lady Shenton was slightly stronger on
Thursday, selling to 7s. lOd. Plant and lack
of experienced mining men are considered to
be the principal bugbears here; though the
type of country at Menzies is usually associ-
ated with faults and short rich shoots, there
have been favorable reports on the quantity
of material available on the Shenton property.
The co. has a large capital account. But
the grade of ore recently put through the
mill shouldn’t be taken as representative. It
would be foolish to put high-value stone
through a brand-new plant.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Captain Blood”
This presents the highlights of Saba-
tini’s vigorous romance in a satisfying
manner. Casting is good—Errol Flynn
as the medico-pirate, Basil Rathbone as
a rival buccaneer, Guy Kibbee as gunner
Ogle, Lionel Attwill as Colonel Bishop
and Olivia de Havilland as the heroine
couldn’t be bettered. The trial of rebels
before Judge Jeffreys, the martyrdom of
slaves at Port Royal, the duel between
the pirate captains, and the naval en-
gagement in which Blood—turned King’s
man as soon as William of Orange came
to the throne—routed the French and
kept Jamaica in the Empire are strong
features. The battle scenes are superbly
managed, and the screen is so consis-
tently occupied with stirring adventure
that the screening time seems shorter
than average, whereas it is over two
hours. First-class entertainment for boys
of from seven to seventy. Previewed at
Film House, Sydney.
“Curtain Falls”
Two parts “Grand Old Girl” mixed
with one part “Passing of the Third
Floor Back” are the ingredients of this
domestic melodrama. An old actress,
stonybroke (Henrietta Crosman), imper-
sonates the fabulously wealthy English
aunt of an apparently happy and well-
to-do American family. She soon dis-
covers that the head of the house is on
the verge of bankruptcy, that his wife
is contemplating elopement, and that his
son, in the hands of card-sharpers, has
passed forged cheques. Furthermore,
that the daughter of the house (Dorothy
Lee) loves a poor but honest garage pro-
prietor whom she is not permitted to
marry. Of course auntie straightens
out all these affairs —bluffs bankers
into renewing her supposed nephew’s
overdraft; pinches a gambling saloon’s
loaded dice and wins back son’s
losses; exposes elopement plot and
reconciles her host and hostess ; makes
the course of true love run smooth
for daughter and her garageman. She
then dies to slow music, beloved by all.
The spirited acting of Henrietta Gros-
man (whose very distinguished stage
career commenced 53 years ago) atones
for the defects and absurdities of the
scenario. Her role fits her like a glove.
She is gay and dashing to the end, and
gets laughs on her deathbed. First shown
in Sydney at the Lyric.
“The Calling of Dan Matthews”
Harold Bell Wright’s novel gains some-
thing in its screen transcription.
Jonathan Hole in “Three Men on a
Horse,” at Melbourne King’s.
Sequences are clear-cut, the few melo-
dramatic touches are light and deft, and
excellent acting by a well-balanced cast
makes a good job of the rather light story.
Dr. Dan Matthews (Richard Arlen), the
new pastor of Corinth, bends his mili-
tant Christianity to the task of purifying
the town’s amusement park. He is aided
by its owner, J. B. Strong (Frederick
Burton), who is unaware of the sinister
activities behind the harmless-looking
collection of sideshows run by the lessee,
Hardy (Douglass Dumbrille). Dan is
aided by Strong’s daughter Hope (Char-
lotte Wynters), As the Big Shot of the
town and pillar of the church, fearful
of his reputation, the old man is in a
stew. His dahlars have been tainted with
the Demon Booze. But Dr. Dan succeeds
in his mission, and everyone, except the
Louis Tanno in “Three Men on a
Horse.”
racketeers, is made happy. Richard
Arlen as the muscular man of God
makes the character manly and likeable,
Charlotte Wynters—it is her screen
debut—is vivacious and intelligent, and
the supporting cast is competent. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Moonlight on the Prairie
Though set in more or less arid cattle
country, this film is by no means dry.
There is plenty of hard riding and hard
shooting, with a tough but handsome
hombre who not only twirls a gun adeptly
around his trigger finger, but exercises
a slightly husky baritone in what is peril-
ously close to a croon. Ace Andrews
(Dick Foran) and his side-kicker “Small
Change” (George E. Stone) befriend a
widow (Sheila Manners) and her small
son (Dickie Jones), whom the usual
rascally rustlers are trying to chisel out
of her ranch. There are oodles of gun-
play before the final trussing-up of the
villains and the fade-out that finds the
hero singing a lullaby in the moonlight
with the sleeping boy in his arms. Foran
is a typical Wild West hero in the 6ft.
and 2001 b. class, with a born-in-the-
saddle look. Sheila Manners does an
easy task well, and George Stone and
Luke Thomas give satisfactory support.
Dickie Jones is a precocious seven-year-
old. The galloping horses set the film’s
pace, which never slackens. Also at the
Capitol.
“Magnificent Obsession”
The obsession seems to have been the
belief of an eminent physician (dead at
the opening of the story) that, by doing
good to others in secret, contact was
made with the source of all power. The
love affair of his widow (Irene Dunne)
and a young millionaire (Robert Taylor)
occupies the screen. The lady is blinded
in an accident, and the young man uses
his resources to the utmost to get her
sight restored. A more or less happy
ending could have been reached after
an hour of small talk and by-play, but
the lady reckoned she mustn’t be a drag
on her benefactor, refused to marry him,
and went away leaving no address. This
postpones the inevitable denouement for
half an hour. Casting is good—Ralph
Morgan, Charles Butterworth and Betty
Furness have parts—and the acting is
smooth, but the plot is frail and the
situations are machine-made. At Sydney
Regent.
“The Lone Wolf Returns”
This is the old one about the gentle-
man burglar who reformed and became
the ally of the police as soon as he fell
in love. Melvyn Douglas is the crook,
Gail Patrick the goil, and the fantasia is
crammed with gangsters, policemen,
jewels hidden in secret panels, false
evidence and the rest of the usual stock-
in-trade of this sort of thriller. At Syd-
ney Regent.
“I Live My Life”
The title conceals the stereotyped poor
man-rich girl plot. Brian Aherne is the
p.m. (an archaeologist in the Isles of
Greece) and Joan Crawford is the r.g.
Of the two, Aherne gets the honors. He
interprets his part with robustness and
humor, and except for one or two lapses
is quite convincing. Joan Crawford is
not consistent. She passes muster as a
mischief-loving girl and a spoilt snob,
but has interludes where she is right out
of character. When Aherne, installed as
vice-president of a huge concern, has a
sudden attack of claustrophobia, presses
every bellpush within reach, tears his
hair, shouts loudly and rushes out
through the incoming wave of clerks and
secretaries, he is still human, but when
Joan, in her tantrums, shrieks, tears
things up and smashes every ornament
in the room, it appears a matter of quite
inexplicable sudden insanity. However,
Miss Crawford excels in witty dialogue,
and there’s plenty of it in this show.
Frank Morgan, in one of his harmless
fool roles, Eric Blore, fast becoming the
screen’s best-known butler, and Jessie
Ralph, as a tyrannical old woman, are
excellent. At Sydney St. James.
“His Night Out”
A comedy which starts off badly but
improves with Edward Everett Horton’s
reaction to the third degree as applied
by a bunch of thugs in a gloomy barn.
E.E.H., wearing a rug and his socks and
his habitual expression of apology for
being alive, has a searchlight turned on
his face and parries the questions in a
Gay Seahrook in “Three Men on a
Horse”
manner that should have brought him a
knock on the skull if the crooks had been
half as tough as they looked. Plot is all
about some bonds stolen out of a safe.
Edward Everett spends a brief but fairly
comfortable interlude in gaol, where he
manages to register the acme of ecstasy
while kissing his girl (Irene Hervey)
through the iron grating. A car full of
criminals does a neat turn-turtle into a
river, and Edward Everett, emerging in
somebody’s else’s dripping clothes with
the bonds sewn into the lining, has his
salary raised on the spot. One crook is
handcuffed, to the delight of small boys
in the theatre audience —the others are
apparently still at the bottom of the
river. At Melbourne Hoyt’s.
“King of the Castle”
Dull English farce slightly flavored with
American accents and five-years-old
Bowery slang. Billy Milton goes through
Fred Sherman in “Three Men on a
Horse.”
the motions of a leading young man in
musicomedy, save that he doesn’t dance
and his one song explains why there
weren’t more. June Clyde is a New
York flapper and Claude Dampier a
comic butler. After about an hour and
a half of leisurely action Mr. Milton dis-
covers the missing documents; that make
him heir to a title and a castle, but the
ending has signalled itself so early in the
story and the characters have done so
little to hold interest that the denoue-
ment is in no sense a climax. At Sydney
Mayfair.
“Ball at Savoy”
Stage musicomedy, when girls, scenery,
costumes and music are pretty and
there’s the right amount of clever danc-
ing, can provide good entertainment. But
to present the same play successfully on
the screen calls for much greater talent
in direction and personnel than is needed
behind the footlights. In the case of
“Ball at Savoy” the acting of Conrad
Nagel, Marta Labarr, Lu Anne Mere-
dith, Esther Kiss and others is sound
enough, but the plot is too slight to make
their efforts worth while. The lyrics of
Paul Abrahams, which pass muster in a
colorful setting, seem to shrink like the
rest of the show when strained through
a microphone and framed in two-dimen-
sional monochrome, and by rationalising
the atmosphere and multiplying the
scenes the film people have abolished the
small degree of charm that clung to the
stage production. Also at Sydney May-
fair.
“She Shall Have Music”
Action throughout is syncopated to the
rhythm of Jack Hylton’s band. There is
some gunplay at the end, when the band
puts to sea in a palatial yacht to fulfil
a broadcasting engagement in mid-
Pacific. Wolves in nautical sheep’s cloth-
ing wreck the control-room, but Hylton’s
manager has a sort of television wrist-
watch which brings everyone in touch
with civilisation, and all is well. The
band’s concert at the Paris Opera House
is a sort of magic-carpet affair, with the
theme song “She Shall Have Music”
woven in and out of Venice and a gon-
dola, Barcelona and “Carmen,” Vienna
and “The Blue Danube,” and Paris and
an alleged cancan ballet. Dancing is a
strong feature, and there are whole rafts
of crooners who perform solo and in
chorus. One of them, an unnamed bru-
nette, scores with a ditty, “Moaning
Minnie,” and June Clyde passes all tests
as the band’s vivacious croonsteress.
Hylton himself is plump, pleasant and in
no way remarkable. At Melb. Athenaeum.


A tcstrahan J ockey Club
AUTUMN MEETING
RANDWICK RACECOURSE,
11th, 13th, 15th and 18th APRIL, 1936.
fd
Escape
Care and Worry
and the Rigours of Winter!
Explore
The Pacific
and a new field for holiday happiness
on a well-found Orient Liner!
Co Cruising/
EARLY JUNE ... to RABAUL (New Guinea) by "OTRANTO.’*
20.000 tons. (First Saloon only.)
EARLY JULY . . . to PAPUA via Great Barrier Reef by "ORAMA."
20.000 tons. (First Saloon only.)
LATE AUGUST ... to FIJI (Suva) by "ORFORD," 20,000 tons.
(First and Tourist Classes.)
Cruises to New Zealand via Brisbane will be made by "ORION," 23,371
tons, late in October, and by "ORFORD," 20,000 tons, at Christmas.
First and Tourist Class passengers will be carried on these two cruises.
Illustrated literature, giving tares and itineraries, will be sent on request.
OKI ENT LINE
CKUISES
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited, incorporated in England
“Queen of Hearts”
With the back-stage musical comedy
craze still agitating the nabobs of cellu-
loid, it is inevitable that Gracie
Fields would appear in one ; that it is
a real sparkler is due in a large measure
to the excellence of her singing, acting
and, above all, fooling. The theme is
the hoary old-timer of the unknown
singer who leaps into the name-in-elec-
trics class in a night, although novel
treatment of the footlight debut gives
it a spice of originality:- Gracie is a
factory-worker who worships, from afar,
a matinee idol, Derek Storey (John
Loder), By mistaken identity when
dressed in her chorus-girl friend’s
“props” she is accepted as a stage-struck
society girl; she grabs opportunity as it
dashes by, and is just about to show off
her vocal wares when the show-down
engineered by Derek’s catty leading lady
(Enid Stamp-Taylor), comes. Gracie bolts,
but Derek and the theatre manager trace
her to a coffee-stall where her singing
is attracting business for the proprietor.
She returns to the theatre under the joint
management of the box-office and coffee
experts and makes good. A little diluted
romance is thrown in. The comedy is
strong, and one of the funniest interludes
ever seen on the screen is an Apache
dance with Gracie as the unwilling part-
ner. At Sydney Lyceum.
Some First Nights
The new show at Melb. Tiv. sparks
on all cylinders. Midgets Olive and
George are more like pretty little dolls
than human beings. Olive is a dainty
sprite who dances with her brother and
with a giant by contrast, Buster Shaver.
A versatile pair are the Decca Brothers,
who show something new in tap-dancing
—one man does his stuff standing on his
head and tapping at a raised platform.
George Beck has all the usual comedy
tricks, with the addition of being able
to waggle his scalp. Yola and Paul have
nothing new to offer in their dancing
turns, and the principal excuse for Peggy
Waddington’s solo bit is her brace of
fans. Roy Cranston adds his spot of fun
in a strawberry-colored suit, Victor
Baxter pours out his heart in a powerful
baritone, and Rooklyn, against a back-
ground of black velvet curtain, and with
either bare hands or grey gloves, pro-
duces cards and billiard-balls out of thin
air, and lighted matches and smoking
cigars out of his pockets. Among other
attractions are a human frog whose con-
tortions no self-respecting amphibian
would recognise, and the Geddes Brothers,
who claim Scotland as their homeland
and play tunes on carpenters’ saws. One
Geddes is a. ragamuffin comedian in a
tarn, and the other is a pretty boy in a
curled white wig. The ballet provides
smooth running and split-second starting,
and helps along the scenic effects, particu-
larly in “Hades” and “The Stargazer.”
For the latter number the girls drape
themselves with cellophane streamers and
undulate in the half-light as a bubbling
fountain.
* * * *
Sydney’s Independent Players made a
capital job of Pinero’s “Enchanted Cot-
tage” at the Savoy on Saturday.
Described as a fable in three acts, the
play has a Barrie touch, particularly Act
11. It is woven round a neurotic,
war-shattered ex-soldier (Oliver Bash-
forth), capably played by John Alden,
who, to escape the attentions of his fuss-
ing relations, buries himself in a lonely
cottage and further protects himself
from them by marrying a very plain
spinster from the neighboring village.
Act II is pure fantasy. Bashforth
and Laura are metamorphosed—the man
is no longer crippled and twisted in
mind ; the woman has become beautiful.
Incredulous, they suspect their queer-
behaved housekeeper of witchcraft, of
throwing a spell over them, and under
this influence the second part of the act
depicts Laura’s dream. Lovers of various
periods move through the cottage,
ushered by a dancing sprite and assorted
witches ; then comes Laura’s dream wed-
ding—the bride beautiful and fashionably
gowned, with numerous bridesmaids.
Act 111 is disillusionment—realisation
that the beauty lay only in their own
eyes. Jane Connolly successfully handled
the difficult part of the ugly duckling
turned swan, and Alfred Race gave a
sympathetic study of a blinded officer.
John Stacy and Kitty Horne got the
utmost out of their delineations of a
country vicar and his wife with a pro-
lific family. They were responsible for
the light comedy, assisted by Edward
Samuels and Linda Green, but the latter’s
poor enunciation detracted from her
performance. Lighting deserved special
commendation, particularly in Act 11.
“The Jocund Dance” made a first
appearance at Melb. Assembly Hall last
week in company with the string section
of the Zelman Memorial Orchestra,
under Herbert Davis’s baton. It com-
prised four pieces supposed to have been
written to the specification of Terpsichore,
and its author is J. B. McEwen, principal
of the Royal Academy of Music
(London). The music was interesting and
in places distinguished, but the title struck
listeners as a polite fiction. Other
items on the programme were two melo-
dious pieces by Elgar, two wistful elegiac
melodies by Grieg, the Adagietto from
the first “L’Arlesienne Suite” of Bizet,
a serenade by Weingartner in four move-
ments and the “Romanze” of Sibelius.
Without the Concerto No. 5 of Handel
the evening would have lacked intellectual
backbone. The conducting of Herbert
Davis was sensitive and evoked an encore.
Nancy Osborne sang four or five songs
without putting an overwhelming amount
of character into them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The sublimated jazz of Stravinsky’s
“Fire Bird” ballet was the spiciest dish
set before the audience at the N. S. Wales
Con.’s second orchestral concert of the
season. The musical world is getting
used to the blares, blasts and gurgles that
electrified Stravinsky’s first hearers in
Europe, and Sydney listeners, inside and
outside the hall, were agreeably surprised
to find that the fierce suite included a
cradle song. Brahms’s E Minor Sym-
phony found orchestra and audience on
more familiar ground, and the perform-
ance was enjoyable. Dr. Edgar Bainton
conducted with his usual composure, and
his daughter Helen, in the Mozart D
Minor Concerto, showed herself a
mistress of pianistic elegances.
Current Artbursts
Richard Ashton, a painter who ex-
hibits at the Macquarie Galleries (Syd-
ney) the harvest of some months of sea-
faring in the windjammer Joseph Con-
rad, has several merits. His sense of
color is good, he has an eye for effective
composition, his seas are liquid and his
skies are full of air. With the courage
of youth he has tackled subjects leagues
outside the beaten track —men reefing a
square sail in a gale is a matter he has
had four or five cracks at —and he never
fails to get spirit and movement into his
impressions. “The Fo’c’sle,” “Anchored
off Williamstown,” “Gulls in Flight,”
“Eighteen-footer in a Squall,” “Be-
calmed” and “Interior” (the last-named
has little to do with the sea) pleased this
critic. Some of the others fail, though
not ingloriously, through slight deficien-
cies of draughtsmanship.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An unusual picture exhibition is that at
the Martin Gallery in Adelaide; which
city, though barring lotteries, accepts this
art union by which the Society of Arts
plans to establish at last a travelling
scholarship for its young painters. The
prizes, all presented by the artists, make
a good show. Prominent are Power’s
horses, Jackson’s bridge at Venice, Louis
McCubbin’s shore at Anglesea, and
’scapes by Daryl Lindsay, Robert John-
son and Garrett. Herbert has some good
etchings. Of the local people, Heysen
leads with an Onkaparinga valley (close
to his home); Whinnen and Leila Mc-
Namara have fine fruit and flower
studies ; and White, Howie, Goodchild,
the rapidly coming Ragless and Webber,
and the Hambidge sisters have all rallied
to the good cause.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In her exhibition of paintings at Mar-
garet Maclean’s Gallery, Melbourne,
Dora Serle (Mrs. Percival Serle) follows
a line of thought in which form pre-
dominates rather than design. Her brush
is charged with high tones in which there
is a preponderance of purples, and her
work is decorative rather than conven-
tional. She favors white frames, a suc-
cessful idea when the pictures are hung
on white walls. Of the still-life studies
“Shasta Daisies” stand out. Studies in
gardens which display a clever treatment
of dappled sunlight are “Sun Patterns”
and “Morning Light”—both vivid exer-
cises. Though the subject matter of the
sketch is not particularly interesting, “The
Last of Autumn” charms with its elusive
sunbeams and shadows. Several of the
landscapes were painted in Tasmania,
and the artist has included a self-portrait
in pastels.


Jota & oOX
° nlV the heart ol
*l° ciwVp eace
Wetness P-
u , siwated
IdeU lridaePath
\“ C 'an elevated
positron.
[rtORW
HO'Ttle^
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Personal and Missing
WILL MISS JEAN WILLIAMS, nursing
sister, late of Swan Hill, Victoria, and last
heard of at Yarroweyah, via Strathmerton,
Victoria, or anyone knowing her present where-
abouts, please communicate with ALAN
GARDEN AND GREEN, Solicitors, Swan
Hill, Victoria? Important.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At this moment the Show is putting the
last burnish on body and hide before
being officially opened. Chips are flying ;
horses are prancing, cattle glowering
dourly, completely unimpressed by the
glitter of trophies, the eye of impor-
tant's. Mountains of sparkling jams, pre-
serves and jellies (crystallised pawpaw
among them) tell of the industry and
good housewifery of the women of the
six States. The scent of rich cheese
and ham rises in the nostrils ; and all the
animal noises beloved of Noah and his
descendants beat across the air. Ladies,
the Show! And don’t forget the
samples!
Every sort of dress came to the open-
ing of the Trocadero, from the shirt-
maker style in white chiffon, with long
train, high, turned-back neckline, long
sleeves and crystal buttons down the
front, to the styles that don’t allow a
sequin between their wearers’ backs and
the atmosphere. It was a luxuriant dress-
parade, with brocades, satins and
taffetas the leading fabrics. Girls wore
saris; girls wore their own hair as up-
right little coronets. They wore bangs
and little tight curls, and would have
charmed Hitler’s heart, for almost every
second one was a blonde. Everyone
had flowers, artificial or real. Mrs.
Ernest' Watt’s black satins were clus-
tered with pale-pink roses. Deep-red
roses glowed against the lilac chiffons
of Mrs. Sam Hardy. Silver brocades
woven with pearl daisies were worn by
Mrs. Kitchen. Little silver bows
glittered on the front of Mrs. Sam Hor-
dern’s dress and matched the flat bow
in her hair.
The immense space of this new danc-
ing floor is flooded with bright but soft
lighting; the stage is a shell whose com-
plexion changes constantly from opales-
cent to emerald and rose. The miles of
carpet surrounding the floor are set with
surely a record number of tables for
two, for four, for as many as you wish.
The band of 14 lured all of the 1500 on
to the floor for the first dance with
“Cowboy in Manhattan,” and went on
from success to success, led by Sam
Coughlan in a white dress suit. Frances
Angus, in grape-blue taffetas, with the
narrowest of shoulder straps and a draped
shoulder scarf, was attractive; Mrs.
Tommy Marks’s black velvets sported
lily-of-the-valley. Mayoress Parkes
brought violet chiffons and the chief
magistrate, and was presented with a
sheaf of red roses; the Minister for
Lands Buttenshaw couple and the
Brigadier-General Lloyds were in the
crowds that alternately danced and
ate a supper that showed what the
chefs can do. The kitchen ovens, as well
as the orchestra and the ballet, had had
a dress-rehearsal the night before. Mrs.
Norton Culhane’s chiffons were black.
Florence Bennett’s frock of white
stiffened chiffon had a rich red girdle.
Mrs. Ronald Levenger’s pearly satins
suited her slimness.
It is nearly 19 years since the war
ended, and still the problems of the re-
turned soldier have to be wrestled with
in Red Cross conferences. This year
the new ballroom of the Australia was
the meeting place, and it was peopled
with eager workers from every part of
the State. Lady Gowrie, now Federal
president of the Red Cross, dropped in
informally to the first day’s session. An
important part of this was the decision,
on a suggestion from the Hughes
lady, to build a small home for chil-
dren or to add a new wing to one of
the R.C. homes, and name it after
Eleanor MacKinnon. That sounds the
sort of memorial that Mrs. MacKinnon
would herself have most approved.
Little buttons twinkled to the waist-
line down the back of Joan White’s wed-
ding frock. The material of this was
ice-blue-and-silver brocade ; its train was
long; so were its button-ornamented
sleeves. A veil of ice-blue tulle was
circled by a coronet of leaves in ice-blue
crystal. The three ’maids, like the bride,
were country girls. They were Betty
Dight from Yetman, Joan Higman, of
Muswellbrook, and Jill Barnes, of Scone.
They trailed mist-blue chiffons, wore blue
ostrich feathers, caught with silver bands,
in their hair, and carried loops of red
roses. Bridegroom Fred Moses is also
of a well-known country family. The
bride’s parents, the James Whites, of
Edinglassie, Muswellbrook, entertained
at Elizabeth Bay House, Mrs. White
wearing black velvet touched with silver.
Eileen Joyce is Westralia’s contribution
to the world’s galaxy of notable pianists.
Eileen was a young citizen of Boulder
City when a kindly priest who heard her
play mentioned her talent to the nuns
of Loreto Convent in Perth. Under their
tuition she blossomed into what Percy
Grainger declared “the most transcen-
dentally-gifted child I have heard in 25
years.” Soon after followed a testimonial
concert tour, and Eileen left for Leipzig
with £9OO. Pauer and Teichmiiller in
Leipzig, and later, in England, Tobias
Matthay gave this artist more polish. She
now returns to Australia after eight
years, in which she has played in Lon-
don’s leading concert halls with such con-
ductors as Beecham, Dan Godfrey,
Albert Coates and Adrian Boult. A
recognised 8.8. C. star, she is under en-
gagement to A.B.C. Her first Sydney
concert will be given in the Con. hall on
Saturday week.
Not a dollar was to be had in the city
early last week. One voyager who
had left the changing of his Austra-
lian into American money till the day
before the Monterey sailed chased about
the money marts in vain. He simply
couldn’t buy one of Uncle Sam’s green-
backs. All the other travellers had got
in first. There was another monster
cracking of farewell streamers and clink-
ing of glasses in staterooms before the
Monterey gave the last tug to her sea
boots and made for the Heads. Joy
Howarth, who goes off to try her luck in
Hollywood, all in blue, was shining and
speckless as the noonday sky.
Miles Mander was another who drew
clouds of screen actors to the wharf —
Mary Maguire among them. Good-look-
ing Mrs. M. Mackay was among the de-
parting (she and Joy Howarth will flat
together for a month or two in Holly-
wood). Mary Perrier, who found
romance when she went to America to
put a polish on her kindergarten work,
went off with members of her family to
her American bridegroom. The newly-
wed Fred Moses couple (they honey-
moon in Suva) were totally sur-
rounded by bridesmaids and groomsmen.
Against her pale-blue crepes the night-
before’s bride pinned a spray of orchids.
Dorothy Brunton, Australia’s clever
and pretty comedian, who was playing
star parts before she was 20, is now-
reported on the road to recovery. She
has been laid low by pneumonia in
London, her attack coming on just a day
or so before she was to make an appear-
ance in a West End theatre. London
climate has never been kind to Dot. Two
or three times it has caused illnesses that
have interfered with her theatrical plans.
Joan Hammond, glittering in sequins
and blue crepes, stood on the Town Hall
stage and lifted her free and ringing notes
in farewell to Sydney. Oblivious of vac-
cination punctures, she sang and smiled.
In the audience was Lady Gowrie, and
on the stage were great bowls of flowers :
atmospherics were therefore gala. Alex-
ander Gordon’s lady, Mrs. Penfold
Hyland, Miss Wray, and other com-
mittee members trailed black; pro-
gramme sellers (mostly school friends
and golf friends of Joan) wore their
best frocks and were iridiscent in greens,
the blues of Chinese glaze, rose and
silver.
Gladys Moncrieff, in lilac and mauve,
threatened to hold up the concert, such
a surf of applause greeted her singing,
and Trixie Tange was both brilliant and
decorative at the piano. Lute Drum-
mond, who has coached Joan for two
and a half years and is responsible for
her German and Italian, was probably
the happiest of the group when Miss
Wray announced that the Joan Ham-
mond fund had overshot its objective of
£lOOO and had reached £1250. Joan
sailed for Vienna last Saturday.
Three generations of Ashtons stood
side by side while Syd Ure Smith said
the opening piece over the exhibition of
Richard Ashton’s works. This son of
Howard and grandson of Julian has re-
membered that Australia is an island, and
has painted ships and waves, and sails
streaming and furled, and seems to have
thoroughly enjoyed doing it. If you have
a fit of the vapors this show will blow
it over the topmast. It is the color
equivalent of Peter Dawson singing a
song of the sea. The Grosvenor Gal-
leries were packed, and sales were brisk.
The Charlie Lloyd Jones couple were
enthusiasts (there’s nothing Charlie likes
better than a ship in a bottle —after it’s
been emptied, of course). Mrs. Ivy
Moore, in black-and-white, had with her
Mrs. Dangerfield ; her cream tunic was
sashed in scarlet. Two visitors from
Queensland were Miss Williamson and
Muriel Foote —both artists. Mrs. Howard
and Mrs. Julian were proudly there.
When Mr. Pickwick holds his ball in
Easter Week for the benefit of the Bush
Book Club and Prince Alfred’s, Judy
Burleigh, of this Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph, will be there. She’s just the sort
of girl the twinkling centenarian would
enjoy meeting. He’ll have to congratu-
late her, too, on the work she has done
for the ball. She is a ticket secretary,
and that’s a pretty arduous job when
the tickets run into four figures.
A high wind that was inclined to play
pitch-and-toss with large hats annoyed
the girls who had dressed for the War-
wick Farm races in the early hours while
Saturday was still fair and warm. Later
arrivals who had turned a weather eye
on the changing day were more comfort-
able in small hats and woolly suits. Some
nice furs aired themselves. Joan Ord’s
red foxes gave tone to her black-and-
white ensemble. The McKelvey lady, as
usual, was one of the day’s triggest—her
dahlia-browns were cut on tailored lines.
Miss Kate Egan, in neatest of navy, en-
joyed the day ; so did Mrs. Harry Meekes,
in browns and yellows, and Mrs. Bur-
leigh, with daughters Peggy and Judy.
The Hans Fay couple were there, she
wearing a sports velour with a brim and
a black-and-white suit. But, although
the attendance was good (incidentally,
the übiquitous Charles Farrell was in the
throng), and there was a good sprinkling
of fashionables, there was no great dis-
play of new styles. It will be “Hello to
all that!” at Randwick next Saturday.
Just-returned Carl Thomas ran the eye
of the professional dancer over the
Trocadero at its premiere. Carl, just
back from the highways of Europe and
the playgrounds of Paris and London,
feels that it is not the steps we lack in
Australia but the spirit. Given even a
mild wine-with-dine concession or a beer-
without-fear license, Sydney after dark
would be a gayer place, more pleasing to
the overseas tourist. While in London
Carl took a refresher course from Victor
Sylvester. Last Thursday night he found
himself, almost to his surprise after his
months of here-to-day-and-gone-to-mor-
row, back on his job in the ballroom of
the Australia.
The P. and O. Company’s Easter egg
to Sydney is a cocktail party in the
Comorin on April 18. Between four
and five hundred guests have been
invited.
“Beware, beware!” sang Mr. Robot
from the depths of his shining aluminium
body (he looks like a knight in armor) at
Anthony Horderns’ after he had stood
up, sat down and lifted his arms, told
the time, his age and the place of his
birth. The mechanical man, then bidden
to sing, raised a voice from his iron-
mongery diaphragm, and gave forth a
song bidding sailors beware, for “many
brave hearts are asleep in the deep.” His
creator stood by proudly telling of invis-
ible rays and what they would do for
the housekeeper of the future. But
“Beware, beware!” rumbled the robot.
Was he warning us, not against the perils
of the deep, of which he can know little,
but against the perils of an oyer-
mechanised existence, of which he is a
beginning? Anyway, a session with Mr.
Robot is one of the most interesting
things Sydney has to offer at the moment.
Seeing the silvery brook, the shade of
trees, the pattern of leaves against sun-
light with which Lister Lister has deco-
rated Anthony Horderns’ gallery for
his art show, you do not wonder that
“The Connoisseur” gave special mention
to his work at a recent London exhi-
bition. The galleries were crowded for
the opening, for, besides being president
of the Royal Art Society, Lister Lister
is a trustee of the National Gallery.
Other gallery trustees listening to the
opening remarks of architect B. J. Water-
house were John Lane Mullens and J.
R. Macgregor.
Mrs. A. G. Thomas, just returned
from India in the Strathaird, dropped
into the Lyceum Club for the flower
show. In India Mrs. Thomas, who is
the convenor of the Arts and Letters
Standing Committee of the N.C.W.,
attended the conference of the Inter-
national Council. To this came the
women of many countries, but none
were more interesting than the women
doctors of India, who told of the grim
struggle hygiene still has against native
superstition. One of the Australian’s
most thrilling experiences was travelling
through the Khyber Pass.
It was a surprise to learn from H. D.
Hall’s speech at the annual meeting of
the Kindergarten Union that there are
four kindergartens at the present time
without committees. Workers and money
are both needed, but the most urgent
SOS is for workers. There was a great
roll-up to the meeting at David Jones’s,
presided over by Lieut.-Governor Street’s
wife, and Minister for Health Fitz-
Simons and Director of Education Ross
Thomas gave testimony to the great value
of kindergarten work. Archbishop
Mowll gave an interesting outline of the
movement in China. Mayoress Parkes
was the afternoon’s guest of honor.


GROUND SHARP TO
sm SHARP
Dtie papiu/aji “SumitaA (rlacU
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HIGH -CLASS STOfUtf AND JEWELLERS /
Melbourne
Chatter
The Moonee Valley holiday meeting
happened on the worst possible kind of
day for dressing. It was fine in the
morning, but clouds rolled up afterwards,
and it was so hot that winter clothes
acted like a Turkish bath. Mrs. Len
Buxton wasn’t on the course to see her
Heros win, so trainer J. Holt acted as
deputy in receiving the silver tea-service
from General Chauvel, Mrs. Buxton
had no bets on Heros, and was even
thinking about the time when she and
her children would use him as a hack
down at Mount Martha, but now that
he’s chopped something off his own
record his life of ease and leisure is
perceptibly further off.
Silk frocks of dark materials were par-
ticularly popular at the meeting. Mrs. R.
R. Thomas and her daughter Marion
chose brown and black respectively, and
Marion’s black hat had a serrated edge
to its upturned halo brim. Meg McWil-
liam was in white sprigged with a floral
pattern, and Mrs. Daryl Best emphasised
the dark-blue tones of a patterned frock
with a navy bag, shoes and cartwheel
hat. Mrs. Andy Morrow wore navy
and white with a navy beret tip-tilted
over one eye, and her daughter Marjorie
emphasised the smartness of navy-blue
bows in the place of buttons down the
front of a plain white dress. Trix and
Elizabeth Manley were among others
who dared the weather to do its worst
with white —the challenge was refused.
Although Mrs. Ernest McKewan found
horseracing a serious business which
necessitated carrying about a large bundle
of newspaper tips, it was greyhound rac-
ing which decorated her beret with a
long, lithe, ivory whippet fastening the
flap over one ear.
Lady Gowrie paid two visits in one
day to Wirth’s Olympia during Garden
Week. Her first appearance was very
informal when she went along in the
morning armed with notebook and
pencil to jot down features for future
reference ; she is herself a very capable
gardener. During the afternoon she was
present in an official capacity for Lord
Huntingfield’s opening speech. Lady
Huntingfield was unable to attend the
show, but is making satisfactory pro-
gress after her sudden and serious illness.
The black frocks worn by Lady Gowrie,
Miss Price and Elizabeth Barber were a
contrast to the gaiety of the flowers and
the draperies of flags over the platform,
built on high like a signal box.
This year, though the flowers were no
finer than usual, the general layout and
growers’ arrangements of displays were
particularly effective. The increasing
popularity of cacti countenanced one
whole side of the main hall being allotted
to plants of that genus. Tall old men
with whiskers, bristly pumpkins, little
fellows with all their vitality bursting
forth into beards and vicious spikes,
single stalks and bunches of bulbous
purple leaves grew in miniature deserts
of quartz and pebbles. None of them
was beautiful, but they possess what
is considered more important—per-
sonality or a sort of sex appeal among
flora.
Under cover near the main hall was a
grotto of ferns and staghorns, and
opposite was a model garden, its beds a
riot of colors from blooms whose roots
were hidden away in buried flower-pots.
The smooth lawns were beautifully made
of slabs of turf put together with the
meticulous care of parquetry, and the
effect of length and breadth was in-
creased by two mirrors at either end of
the garden. Near by were groves of baby
oaks and maples, their leaves touched
by the red-and-gold fingers of autumn.
Of the flowers, gladioli, dahlias and
chrysanthemums were most profusely
displayed. One of the largest dahlias
was called Satan, a great red bloom with
spear-pointed edges to its petals. A
flamboyant canary-colored specimen
proudly announced itself to be Dr. John
Dale. Among newly-evolved dahlias
christened during the week were Lady
Gowrie and Ivie Price (both pastel-pinks
of medium size), Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Gretta Lewis and Anne Lewis.
Peacocks and parrakeets, bright yellow
canaries, matadors with bull-provoking
scarlet cloths, some fluff of bunny-ermine
and at least one admiral’s hat—such were
the colors and accessories which made men
rather than women the most spectacular
sex at the eighty-first annual university
commencement. Wilson Hall, scene of
many a battleground and many a victory,
was as usual packed to capacity for the
conferring of degrees. It was a lengthy
ceremony, and there were speeches, none
humorous and some too long, so that it
was a very stiff-jointed, hungry crowd
which swarmed out of the hall through
the quad to shake hands with knights
James Barrett and J. G. Latham and
on to the union rooms in search of tea.
In the galaxy of bright colors were
the Faculty of Engineering’s venerable
Prof. Kernot, on deck officially for his
last commencement —he retires at the
end of the year. As a contrast there
was Prof. Paton, one of the youngest
members of the professorial board. An-
other notable, in an emerald-green hood,
was Prof. Hartung, who was accom-
panied by his wife. Among guests who
are seen every year was Thomas Brent-
nall, a “grand old lad” of 89, who
whispers to his friends that the elixir of
life is work. He still goes to his office
every morning.
Tall, auburn-headed Yvonne Aitken
received heaps of congratulations. In
addition to receiving a degree of
B.Agr.Sc., she won half shares with three
different men in three exhibitions —two
for agriculture and one for agricultural
engineering and surveying. Muriel Jean
Polglaze distinguished herself as this
year’s only Master of Commerce and by
winning a scholarship for economics. No
women received any kind of degree in
medicine, surgery or laws, and Edith
Constance Ingpen was the sole represen-
tative of her sex to become a Bachelor
of Architecture.
There were no women graduates in
the new degree of Bachelor of Educa-
tion, introduced this year. There is some
diversity of opinion as to whether the
new degree is very much more difficult
than the old diploma. Among arts gradu-
ates were Joan Burke, who has been in
the limelight as an amateur actress, and
Ellis Nicholson that was, who received
her certificate to the announcement of
Catherine Ellis Claire Paul —she was
married in the middle of last year, but
decided that she might as well finish
her course. Her sister Norrene was
among the science grads.
In this Broothorn portrait is Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Byrne’s younger daughter
Helen. Miss Byrne is a teacher of
Italian, and her accent, according to
the Italian community, is excellent. As
a result of a Mollison scholarship she
went to Italy in 1933, passed examina-
tions and did the sights as a student.
Some day she intends to return as a
tourist, for she still has the rest of
Europe to see. Miss Byrne did a French
course while studying for her arts degree,
and this year took up yet another lan-
guage, Japanese.
The Women Graduates’ Association
gathered up members to the annual
dinner last week with overseas visitor
Lady Hosie as a sort of aperitif to
whet the appetites of stay-at-homes for
foreign travel. Lady Hosie had lantern
slides to illustrate her talk on the Chinese
exhibition which was such a tremendous
success in London. The Chinese Gov-
ernment stipulated that its treasures must
be transported to England in a British
warship. Mrs. lan Maxwell spoke of
Denmark, in which country she spent
four months. Being a graduate and in-
terested in education generally she visited
several seats of learning in Copenhagen
and discovered what a success the Danes
have made of free education. The very
few private schools in Denmark ,are
patronised only by the highest layer of
the aristocracy. Other speakers were
Mavis Freeman, who had some interest-
ing information to give about the Lister
Institute in Chelsea, and Miss D. Alex-
ander, who spoke of Russia and her
adventures while teaching at an Anglo-
American school in Moscow.
Here is a Broothorn camera’s glimpse
of Mrs. S. W. Gullett, who is persuading
as many of her friends as possible to buy
tickets for the Legacy Club Ball to be
held at the Palais on May 7. Her hus-
band has been for many years on the
finance committee of the club, and Mrs.
Gullett shares his interest in this worthy
public movement.
Donations from trusts and private in-
dividuals have made possible the service
work of the Legacy, which has never
been merely a luncheon club. In order
that it may be a representative body its
members are recruited on a basis of
classification by occupation ; the number
is confined to 175. The club aims at
promoting the mental and physical well-
being of the children of deceased sol-
diers and at finding jobs for ex-soldiers
and their dependants. The activities of
the Junior Legacy extend to classes for
sport and physical culture, speech train-
ing, debating societies and free medi-
cal and dental examinations. There is a
library at the clubrooms, and camps are
held twice a year for both boys and girls.
Last week armament firms supplied
undergrads, with large orders of weevily
flour, soot, poisoned gas from the
“stinks” lab., several gross of aged eggs,
for Abyssinia and Italy went to war by
land and sea all over an argument about
Zane Grey’s rubber shark. Mussolini
wanted the fish to feed his troops, but
Haile Silassie, representing the S.P.C.A.,
demanded its release in protected waters.
Both sides were clad in bathing-suits and
quipped with scooters, and there was
much shedding of tomato juice. Anthony
Eden lost his trousers at a critical
moment when a rescue ’plane on pulleys
was being piloted over the danger zone
to rescue him from a desert island. A
couple of snipers shooting eggs from
the clubhouse tower were cut off from
their regiment when the enemy removed
their ladder, and were only rescued when
on point of death from thirst. Just as
Mussolini had victory well within his
grasp a thieving spy stole the magneto
from his amphibian tank. When the
League of Nations tried to make its voice
heard the fire hose was turned on, and
Haile Silassie and Mussolini dodged out
to have a quick one. Hostilities ended
when ammunition gave out. No one
knows which side won.
Legally there seems to be a pitfall
about raffles, though fortunately the
police don’t worry much over such tech-
nical fleabites. But the Alfred Hos-
pital committee took no risks when
Harold Herbert donated a picture to be
raffled in aid of hospital funds. A repre-
sentative of the hospital board paid a
visit to the Attorney-General, who put
on his specs and thinking cap, decided
that the subject was a work of art and
wrote O.K. to the proposal. The raffle,
drawn last week, gave the picture to
Fielding Russell, of Hawthorn.
Declaring open Dora Serle’s exhibi-
tion of pictures R. H. Croll stuck a pin
into the critics. It wasn’t a very vicious
jab, but rather a scratch on the outer
layer of the epidermis—that’s if critics
have layers. The gist of Mr. Croll’s
speech was that the life or death of a
picture is not delivered by a few news-
paper paragraphs. A layman looking at
a painting immediately wonders whether
he’d like to live with it (fortunately
everybody doesn’t want to live with the
same things or people), but a critic
examines a picture as a biologist does a
bug. He applies his technical knowledge
thickly sprinkled with his own preferences,
assesses the value of the specimen and
then goes off to lunch. But the artists
survive, and the general public continues
to look at pictures. Eventually every
layman becomes an amateur critic, and
then if he’s in a spending mood he starts
to buy off his own bat, which is all to
the good for the artists.
Lady Hosie, who wrote Two Gentle-
men of China and Portrait of a Chinese
Lady, is one of the most interested and
interesting visitors this country has had
a chance of meeting. She spent a fort-
night in Perth, a week in Melbourne and
this week is going on to N. S. Wales.
She has a brother in Australia and
two nephews, Bertie Soothill, who is
married and settled in Perth, and Ber-
nard Soothill, who is to be married in
Sydney during April.
Lady Hosie, who was Dorothea Soot-
hill, was born in China and speaks
fluent Chinese. Since the death of
her husband, who was British consular
attache at Pekin, she has lived at Oxford,
where her father was Professor of
Chinese. Her mother, not to be out-
done by a brilliant family, decided at
the age of 70 to write a book, and had
her successful Passport to China pub-
lished by Hodder and Stoughton.
Mr. and Mrs. Warne Nicholls sailed
back to Fiji in the Monterey. Although
Mrs. Nicholls comes to Melbourne every
year she never has to buy winter clothes,
for she times her visits to leave home
after Christmas and return again before
Melbourne’s autumn has made up its
mind to become winter. Mr. and Mrs.
Nicholls leave two sons behind them;
one is studying for a profession, the other
is on leave from Fiji, Their daughter.
Dove, was married last year to John
Potts. She and her husband are enjoy-
ing a holiday in the Blue Mountains.
Margery Stephens is home again after
having the time of her young life in
India. She travelled with Mr. and Mrs.
R G, Baldock, of Ellangowan station,
Queensland, was introduced by friends
to Christmas gaieties in Calcutta, and as
a contrast went trekking in the Hima-
layas and journeyed right up to the
Khyber Pass.
Mrs. Harold Walker and Lynette
boarded the Monterey on the first stage
of a tour round the world.
“Fiona”: Those youngsters who are
entrusted with the typing of deeds and
so forth in legal offices become experts
in the matter of undetectable alterations.
I once watched a typist working on a
huge sheet of parchment paper, and still
recall her horrified face as she realised
that the document, wanted in haste, con-
tained a whole line she had been in-
structed not to copy in. Correction in-
volved the removal of two lines of typing.
With a soft rubber she took off all the
ink, a hard rubber removed most of the
lettering, a touch with ink-eradicator left
the paper without a sign of writing. It
was quickly dried by rubbing between
two clean sheets of blotting-paper, and
the pearl handle of a pocket-knife, passed
over the surface, put on the gloss again.
The document later appeared in court,
but so skilfully had the alterations been
made that they remained undetected.
“Atrax”: A London research chemist
has pointed out, in a lecture at the Royal
Institution, that if calves didn’t like the
flavor of mustard there would be no
movies. The particular gelatine used in
photographic films owes its exceeding
light-sensitiveness to a trace of sulphur.
The sulphur is derived from mustard oil.
The gelatine is made from calfskins.
A substantial proportion of meadow
plants contains mustard oil. Most graz-
ing animals avoid these plants—rabbits,
for instance. Cattle take everything in
their way, mustard-flavored plants in-
cluded. Rabbit-gelatine thus does not
possess the requisite light-sensitive prop-
erties. Young animals supply a larger
gelatine yield than old, hence the calf-
movie sequence. But, science notwith-
standing, this is not the only connection
between calves and pictures, moving or
other.


PEARL ASSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
(Incorporated in England .)
INVESTMENTS IN AUSTRALASIA EXCEED
SIX MILLION POUNDS.
Funds exceed £89,310,700
Income for 1935 £18,895,358
Total Claims paid by Com*
pany . . £100,182,094
The Company transacts every class of Fire and Accident business and is
represented throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Consult us—we offer undoubted security.
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand—
-9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
W. H. C. Burnham, Manager for Australasia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1467 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY VERONICA COHEN
Petitioner
And WILLIAM RAYMOND COHEN
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM RAYMOND COHEN late of
Forest Lodge near Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
VERONICA COHEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twelfth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. R. WISHART, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO FRANCIS TRISTRAM COPELAND
formerly of Whangarei in New Zealand
but now of parts unknown Railway
Porter.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Auckland citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of VIOLET MAY COPE-
LAND of Tangowahine in New Zealand Mar-
ried Woman wherein she prays for a divorce
from you on the grounds that you have been
guilty of desertion for three years or more
and such citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition and to pronounce sen-
tence thereon notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE take notice that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within forty-two
days from the Bth day of April 1936 being the
date of the last publication hereof in the
Sydney Bulletin newspaper to attend in person
or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Auckland and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings. A copy of the said cita-
tion and petition will be supplied to you on
your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Auckland or at the office of the
Sydney Bulletin newspaper.
DATED at Auckland this 20th day of
March, 1936.
(1.5.) a. E. DOBBIE,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. ROBERT URQUHART is
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of ROBERT URQU-
HART, Fourth Floor, Southern Cross Build-
ings, Chancery Street, in the City of Auckland.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 427 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNIE ELEANOR ELIZABETH
MOULDS Petitioner
And ARTHUR LESLIE MOULDS Re-
spondent.
TO ARTHUR LESLIE MOULDS late of 81
Simmons Street Enmore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
ELEANOR ELIZABETH MOULDS has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the 19th day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be obtained on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitors free ot
harge.
DATED this 20th day of March One thou-
and nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C. M. MARSH AND HARVEY, Petitioner’s
lolicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No, 1929 of 1934.
BETWEEN LEONARD THOMAS
FREDERICK MANKTELOW Petitioner
And LOUISA MANKTELOW (formerly
Wheatley nee Malcolm) Respondent.
TO LOUISA MANKTELOW (formerly Wheat-
ley nee Malcolm) late of Narrandera.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LEONARD
THOMAS FREDERICK MANKTELOW has
commenced a suit against you in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion for three years
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
fifth day of June One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-six and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
T. A. WHITELEY, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Orange; by his Agents, HOBBS AND
STONHAM. 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
RE CHARLES EDWARD BRUCE, late of
Pensioners’ Reserve, Tarragindi, Ipswich
Road, South Brisbane, in the State of
Queensland, of no occupation, deceased,
Intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled to the Estate of the
abovenamed CHARLES EDWARD BRUCE,
or any part thereof, and particularly ROBERT
BRUCE, the lawful father of the said de-
ceased, THOMAS JAMES BRUCE, HENRY
GEORGE BRUCE, ALFRED WILLIAM
BRUCE, ROBERT FRANCIS BRUCE and
LOUISA CATHERINE WHITE, lawful
brothers and sister of the said deceased;
ALFRED JOHN BRUCE, MARY FRANCES
BRUCE, AGNES BRUCE and ALICE
BRUCE, being children of Alfred William
Bruce and lawful nephew and nieces of the
said deceased, are hereby required to forward
proof of their claims to THE PUBLIC
CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND, at Edward
Street, Brisbane, on or before the Twenty-
first day of October, One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-six, and that after the expira-
tion of the aforesaid date the said The Public
Curator of Queensland will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased, disre-
garding the claims of which he shall not have
received notice and of all persons claiming by,
through or under them or any of them by
derivative title or otherwise howsoever.
DATED at Brisbane this Third day of April,
1936.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator of Queensland,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
HIT
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
In spite of the diehard summer lawns
and gardens were in fine form for the
races. Dressing was colorful, it being
too hot to get into sombre rigs, and even
those who refused to wear summer frip-
peries compromised with bright felt hats
and gay capes. Mrs. Geoff Lynn was
near-autumn with caped navy georgettes,
coal-scuttle hat and curved quills splayed
over one cheek, Joan Maitland Brown
scattered scarlet pimpernels over her
brown marocains, and Margaret Walsh
had a matching chiffon jabot on her
Patou-pink suit. Muriel Lee Steere
swung a brown cape over her oatmeal
crepes.
Dorothy Forbes and Syd Yeo slipped
into the matrimonial noose at St. Luke’s,
Cottesloe. The bride’s parchment chiffon
velvets ran to corded shirring at the
front of the bodice, voluminous sleeves
tapering swiftly to the wrist and a bustle
bow marking the start of the long train,
which was lined with shirred net. The
silk net veil, edged with silver thread, cas-
caded from a halo of tiny flowers. Little
Betty North followed, with a gown to
match those of Mrs. Scott Young and
Nancy Forbes, who brought up the rear
of the procession. Their leaf-green
velvets, short-waisted and draped, had
overbodices which formed sleeves, and
their heads were bound. with frangi-
panni.
The University Boat Club held a dance
in the refectory. Stephanie Feldman was
there with a green sash tying her mush-
room laces, Jean Goland’s blue matelasse
was wrought with silver, and Judy
Donegan had a fall of green leaves on
her white georgettes.
Eileen Joyce has come home to a wel-
come sufficiently hearty to warm the
cockles of any girl’s heart. Her first
day back was reserved for family and
intimate friends; then the throng rushed
in. Loreto Old Girls put on a dinner at
the Esplanade, where president Miss
Octavia Grave, in exciting cerise and
silver matt crepe, welcomed Eileen, her
mother, her two sisters and 90 past
pupils. After the dinner the young
pianist took her frilled powder-blue
georgettes to the Assembly Hall, where
R. J. Bastian welcomed her to a gather-
ing of the W.A. Music Teachers’ Asso-
ciation. Another function early on the
list was Mabel Teather’s morning-tea.
Mrs. Coralie Clarke Rees, who arrived
in the Morton Bay to act as secretary to
Eileen Joyce, is being welcomed back to
Perth after an absence of six years in
London. Dorothea Cass invited 50
friends to her home in Cottesloe, where
there were musical items, tea, much
chatter and a posy of golden roses for
the guest of honor to hold next her em-
broidered navy silks and short taffeta
coat. The Women Writers’ Club arranged
a morning-tea at the Green Gate.
Mrs. Maitland Brown, with her daugh-
ter Joan, arrived from Sydney to spend
some months holidaying with her other
daughter, Mrs. Bill Walsh, of Mileura
station. Mrs. Walsh, with a chic red
collar on her black georgette frock, enter-
tained at the Esplanade Hotel, where
about 40 friends chatted with the visitors
over teacups.
Nor’-Westers are packing their, bags
and returning home. Mrs. Harry
Calder left after a final week of hurried
farewells. Mrs. Gordon Gooch, of Wan-
dagee station, Carnarvon, brewed a fare-
well pot of tea at the Palace Hotel, where
she greeted her guests in a dusty-pink
cloque ensemble.
Lion of the Elocution Teachers’ gather-
ing at the Adelphi was Anderson Tyrer,
who arrived from England to conduct
Trinity College examinations. After
the musical programme Mrs. Hugh Tor-
rance made a presentation to retir-
ing president Anita Fitzgerald (a striking
figure in purple matelasse lame), who
leaves for England.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The centenary polo tourney at Birk-
alla attracted many Victorians. Mrs.
F. W. Porter and Mrs. Kenneth Bake-
well were hostesses at afternoon-tea,
Mrs. Porter in pale grey with a dahlia-
red straw hat; Mrs. Bakewell chose a
navy wool georgette coat over a nayy-
and-white figured frock, and her white
straw hat was banded with blue. Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson (she was the guest of
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Bray at Glenelg), in
deep blue relieved with tomato red, and
Mrs. Ffrench, in a navy-and-fawn pat-
terned chiffon with short coat effect, were
among the visitors.
There were dinner parties every night
of the week. Frank Downer and Mes-
dames F. W. Porter, Kenneth Bakewell
and Malcolm Reid gave theirs on the
occasion of the polo dance at Mount
Osmond Country Club. Frocking was
smart. Mrs. Aubrey Gibson chose a hme-
toned chiffon, pintucked, with accordion
flounces on the skirt and sleeves and
round the corsage. Sheila Creswick s
shell-pink and silver lame was cut on
long lines, shirred down the back and
front of the bodice, which was supported
by narrow straps of old-rose velvet. Mrs.
Tom Guest’s black chiffon frock had a
Renaissance sash of flame and green, the
long ends hanging in front. Heather Mc-
Kellar sported pale green and gold tissue
moulded to the figure.
Major and Mrs. R. C. J. Frisk, of
Glenelg, who will leave for England on
April 16, gave a farewell party to mem-
bers of the Staff Corps. Major Frisk,
who has been on the headquarters staff
in Adelaide for the last 10 years, has
been selected for 12 months’ service with
the British Army.
Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Hayward, of
Strangways-terrace, North Adelaide, and
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Hope Murray were
passengers in the Strathnaver for a trip
to Fiji.
Prior to the departure of Prof, and
Mrs. H. J. Wilkinson for their new home
in Brisbane, members of the Uni. Staff
Wives’ Club gave a farewell tea for Mrs.
Wilkinson in their clubroom. The party
opened with a brief silence in honor of
Miss Murray, sister of the Chancellor,
the club’s late patroness. After tea had
been served the Mawson lady (president),
Mrs. A. K. Macbeth (vice-president) and
Mrs. T. Harvey Johnson made speeches
expressing regret at Mrs, Wilkinson’s de-
parture and wishing her happiness in her
new home.
At the races there were chiffons and
large straw hats and velvets and furs.
The Moulden lady chose a white silk
tailored outfit; Mrs. F. A. Tennant was
tailored in dusty pink. Mrs. S. J.
Jacobs wore black silk with a coat of
black wool georgette.
TASMANIA.
History was made in the Speck by the
opening of the Bass Strait cable tele-
phone service. The ceremony was pre-
ceded by a dinner at Hadley’s, and the
voice of the Prime Minister speaking to
our Premier came over the cable from
Albury clearly and distinctly. Calls had
been booked for months beforehand.
The Merrie England pageant and ball
engineered by a large committee to raise
funds for the Pioneer Avenue packed
the Albert Hall. Decorations were all
in Tudor style, and colors cleverly car-
ried out. The groups representing the
Courts of Gloriana and Mary Queen of
Scots were outstanding. Mrs. H. E.
Dougharty and Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre
were the leading spirits.
The Ashbolt lady gave a big party at
her home, Lenna, Battery Point —a sort
of farewell-to-summer function, as we
mustn’t expect many more out-of-door
gatherings after this month. Tennis, tea
and ices were the garden attractions.
The French Circle met at Mrs.
Overell’s to welcome home Dr. Goddard,
and had a cheery reunion, with a short
and snappy French play, “Le Chateau
Yquem,” to diversify the proceedings. Dr.
Goddard gave a talk about his travels.
He has brought back a lot of literary
material for the Circle’s winter activities.
Various hostesses have been entertain-
ing Mrs. A. Flexmore and Mrs. W. J ;
Campbell, who are off for a tour of
Japan. Among those who gave parties
were Mrs. C. N. Atkins, Mrs. C. B.
Davies, Mrs. H. Gray and Mrs. Alex.
McGregor, the latter combining forces
with Miss Maxwell for a luncheon
gathering.
The J. E. Thorps gave a late-afternoon
party in honor of Ida McAulay, Nancy
Hutchison and Lilias Lyne, all bound for
England. The afternoon ended in a
travelling dinner party, various friends
entertaining the guests, who went by car
from course to course.
Mrs. Ethel Nairn Butler has produced
a booklet, V.D.L. a Hundred Years Ago-
Chatty and easy in style, and with facts
verified and local color true, the book is a
welcome addition to the history of our
tight little island.
Mrs. G. H. Leibius (Sydney), who has
been in Tasmania for some weeks, has
gone back to N.S.W. Before leaving she
bade a number of friends to bridge at the
Queen Mary Club by way of returning
hospitality.
Mrs. John Clarke and her two small
ones are coming from Rangoon to pu :
in a few months with Mrs. Clarkes
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Lyons, at
Lindfield. The husband is to come later
and collect his family.


QN
BANK
fNUUNQ]
MAKE MODE MONEY! SEll THESE!
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113*
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Dove, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq. C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tlus
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRANDAIJER’S
sv-
m
m
at*
PENS
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDADEa & CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
Getting Rich on Tobacco
“Gain”: When my son needs a job
there will be no question about his voca-
tion. I am going to put him into the
tobacco business —as an excise officer.
Specimen of account sales—one of the
several I have seen —from Brisbane:
Cwt. qr. lb.
Sept. 2—2 Bales Leaf .. 4 3 25
Less Tare .. .. 8
4 3 17
Less Stalks .. 1 0 25
3 2 20
= 4121 b. at 6/4 .. £l3O 9 4
Excise at 3/10 lb. .. £7B 19 4
Manufacturing Cost at
1/3 .. •.. .. 25 15 0
Selling Cost at 1/- .. 20 12 0
125 6 4
£5 3 0
l-3rd Proceeds to Manufacturer .. 1 14 4
£3 8 8
Freight and Cartage .. .. 3 10
£0 7 8
The above is a Statement of A/c covering
your Tobacco. Owing to the low price of
Tobacco we are unable to procure a better
price.
Obviously nobody makes much out of
it except the Excise Department, and
if the business goes bankrupt—well, my
offspring will be in the civil service and
they’ll provide for him. Though pos-
sibly, since these things are political,
they’ll provide for the grower, too, by
giving him a relief bonus out of which
to pay his 3s. lOd. duty.
One night last week the Rockhampton
mail, a peaceful caravan as a rule, bore
a fearful drama through the dark. The
full horror of it was not revealed till the
train reached Brisbane ; then in a first-
class sleeping carriage a porter found a
passenger dead, another dying-each in
his bunk—and, in a corridor outside, the
conductor, Thomas Boys, terribly bat-
tered about the head and unconscious. It
was obviously a case of robbery and
murder, for the pockets of the victims
had been emptied ; but much time and
useless surmise were expended before
it was ascertained that there had been
a third passenger in the sleeper. At
the moment of writing the police of
two States were searching for him. The
dead men were Frank Costello, an Innis-
fail accountant, and Harold Speering, a
Post Office engineer.
* * Hi
“M. Turlutu”: With the grim shadow
of war overhanging a worried world,
and air-defence as Australia’s one hope
of beating off a sea-raid, it is sadly
humorous to contemplate our northern
aerodromes in the wet season. Darwin
needs only a few more inches of rain to
become impracticable for heavy land
machines —with no alternative. As it is,
it is liable to be dangerous at any time
between December and April, and of
no dependable military value. Long-
reach is waterlogged and boggy for
weeks together. Townsville recently
bogged the City of Brisbane. Cairns is
merely a lake in a heavy wet season.
Rockhampton is better, but inadequate
for military use. Bundaberg affords a
cynical joke against our travelling
Federal statesmen. A few inches of rain
in the birthplace of Hinkler, one of the
greatest solo fliers the world has seen,
renders the aerodrome unusable.
* * * *
"Bray Rock”: All the prophetic signs
of a good sea-mullet season are with us
in S. Queensland. Shrieking flocks of
parrakeets flash overhead, in green, red
and orange glory, or clamber silently
among the branches of the beach oaks
seeking food. The Australian region—
it extends over New Guinea, and west-
ward to Lombok in the Dutch Indies,
with Borneo and Celebes —is the true
home of the parrot people. Six families
of true parrots occur in it; Europe has
none, Asia none except in India, Africa
none north of the Tropic of Cancer,
North America only two. The tea-trees
are getting ready for a heavy flowering;
the bees are already excited at the pros-
pect. From east and north-east, the
running seas are carving deep gutters in
•he ocean beaches where the north-bound
migrants may gain rest and refuge from
the swarms of sea enemies which hang
so hungrily upon their track. We are
overhauling the long nets, too —on my
part with grave doubts as to whether our
present methods of netting estuary-
mouths may not eventually ruin the sea-
mullet harvest.
* * * *
“Pluvius”: How’s this for a drop of
dew among the islands of the Whitsun-
day Group (N.Q.)? January gave us
20.20 in. rain. February came along with
41.60 in, March to date has poured
72.35 in. on us, of which 35in. fell dur-
ing 48 hours. That makes 3yds, 2ft. 2}in.
to date this year, which puts us right for
a month or so. The rain caused the
islands and islanders little inconvenience
—they are used to things of that sort.
It did upset the railways on the coast,
though, and our mails were delayed.
The only thing that troubled some of the
smaller boatmen was that, because of the
amount of earth washed down in the
floods from Australia, the going was so
slippy that some launches had to put
on chains to prevent skidding when
going from island to island.
“X.T.”: If there is a surplus of
Australian doctors, Boulia (Q.)
apparently hasn’t heard of it. The
hospital committee has decided to
appoint as resident a medico
whose address was Southsea, Hants
"No, thanks, Jacky; I don't like rabbit."
"S'pose you cookem along plenty gum-leaf, missus, taste all same possum."
(Eng.), the second choice hailing
from Newcastle-on-Tyne and the third
being a lady from Edinburgh. The secre-
tary was instructed “to send the applica-
tion of Dr. Sincke, Germany, to Norman-
ton Hospital, as this applicant was de-
sirous of studying tropical disease, and it
was considered he would be most suitable
for Normanton.” And all applications
from Scotland were sent to Camooweal
and Burketown. In a district where almost
every eligible man was on his way to a
recruiting station on August 14, 1914, it
seems to be a case of “no Diggers or
their sons.” Perhaps there is a good
reason —but it will have to be a very
good one to satisfy the public conscience.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: An artificial
leg in a city window took my mind back
to Croydon (N.Q.) three decades and
more ago. Bill lost a leg in a mine acci-
dent. The boys passed round the hat
to an extent which enabled the world’s
best in dummy legs to be ordered from
abroad for. good old Bill. When it
arrived Bill was so overjoyed with its
beauties that he gave a party at his
camp. It was a splendid party—two
kegs of rum and a barrel of beer were
only the trimmings to it. So long as he
remained in seagoing condition Bill
ambled among the guests on the old
timber peg, explaining that he’d planted
the blanky noo ’un in case it got dam-
aged during the festivities. On the third
day, after the last guest had staggered
down the track, Bill arose, shaky, but
at peace with the world. Compounding
a pick-me-up from the rum dregs, he
went to gloat over his life’s treasure in
its safe hiding-place. The white-ants had
eaten it!
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Everyone who isn’t staying here to be
married seems to have arranged for a
trip to Sydney at Easter. Hordes of
golfers are going down, and others who
like the Easter meetings and the Show
have found perfectly good and logical
reasons why they should journey south.
Among the pilgrims will be the Bruce
Pies, Ella O’Shea and her brother P.J.,
and Dr. and Mrs. J. J. Power. Mr. and
Mrs. Vivian Young, from Charleville,
have an excellent excuse. Their sons are
at King’s School, and the parents want
to see how they get on at the regatta.
All the W. T. Robertsons have booked
rooms. Mrs. Robertson will have a
chance of saying au revoir to her brother.
General Cannan, and his wife, off to
England in the Orsova.
Brisbane Golf Club associates have a
new secretary, Winnie Brennan, a cheery
soul who loves the game and who for
four years captained the Goodna Golf
Club associates. Violet Midson, who was
secretary for eight years, has retired, and
captain Mrs. J. K. Cannan handed over
a set of crystal for the dressing-table
and a gold brooch set with pearls from
the associates, some 100 of whom sat
round and applauded the nice things said
by the Macartney lady and others. Mrs.
S. E. Travill made and presented a large
bouquet of red roses.
Vasiliki Pataka, a black-eyed lass who
hails from Rhode Island, Greece, arrived
by the Orsova, and was met by
her prospective bridegroom, Emanuel
Skoufris. The pair had not seen each
other since they were children, but the
parents of both families arranged the
marriage, which took place in Brisbane
last week.
Miss Woodhead is not to be married
until the end of this year or early in
1937, but she already has chosen her
bridesmaids. They are the three
Buchanan girls. Iris, Norma and Edna,
and Heather Moore, Arlie’s cousin. Pros-
pective bridegroom, Hugh Dalkeith
Stewart, is with his regiment in Tangan-
yika.
Peggy (Mary in the film world)
Maguire and her parents got back to
Brisbane last week, and Peg is glad
enough after the outbreak of parties
which marked the finish of “The Flying
Doctor,” to settle down for a few days’
rest before starting off on a personal-
appearance tour of the capitals.
The Catholic Apostolic Church, South
Brisbane, saw the wedding of Marion
Allom to David Addis. Claude Allom
gave his sister away, and Barbara Allom
’maided. The bride was an appealing
slim figure in near-white matelasse, and
Barbara wore blue powdered with silver
stars. A motor tour in the south is the
honeymoon, but the newly-weds must
be back by April 28, for on that date
Barbara Allom marries Lyle Kesterton,
and sister Marion is to be her matron of
honor.
Ere this sees print R. H. Anning,
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. F. A.
Anning, Reedy Springs, will be bringing
home a bride. She is Irene Sara Taylor,
daughter of Mrs. Collins, Cremorne
(N.S.W.), and of the late E. Taylor, whose
brother, Willis Taylor, is one of the main-
stays of Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane.
They are to be married in St'. Stephen’s,
Marquarie-street, Sydney.
April seems to be set apart for wed-
dings. Anne Walsh, of Toowoomba
(she is a daughter of the late Dick
Walsh, whose hobby was acclimatising
rare plants, and who had a small accli-
matisation farm at Redcliffe), and Tom
Priestley will exchange vows in St.
Stephen’s Cathedral on Easter Saturday.
The two met in the North, where Anne
was a sugar chemist, and Tom also do-
ing something important in the sugar
world. They leave for England at the
end of the month, and will be away for
three years.
Mrs. Cecil Skinner is over from Japan
to visit her mother, Mrs. Hubert Harris.
Mrs. Skinner was Kathleen Harris,
daughter of Lieut.-Col. Hubert Harris,
who was O.C. sth L.H. Regt., and who
died of wounds on Gallipoli. She has
inherited from her mother the delicate
dark beauty of the O’Mahony family.
She will be in Queensland for some
months, for there are relatives in Cairns
and Townsville whom she intends to
visit.
Two of the oldest families in the Coo-
mera district are to be united when Doris
Mary Siganto, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. Siganto, Upper Coomera, marries
Alexander Jack Oxenford, son of Mrs.
M. and the late J. F. Oxenford. The
township which grew round the father’s
holding bears the family name.
Arthur Minter Lethbridge, of Ardglen,
Cunnamulla, and Olive Milburn, of
Blairmore, Cunnamulla, will keep their
altar date in St .Alban’s chapel, South-
port School, where the bridegroom was
a scholar. Shakspeare’s birthday is their
wedding day.


eer
Quality!
v-mm
Aristocrat radio, because of its
sheer quality, is ideally suited to the
man in the country.
Aristocrat js built by artisans —manufactured
with a due appreciation of the importance
of trouble-free performance.
Whatever type of receiver you may desire,
whether it be A.C., A.C./D.C, or Battery-
operated, Mantel, Console or Radio-phono-
graph combination, Broadcast or Dual-wave,
there is an “Aristocrat” that will give satis-
faction in appearance, operation and perform-
ance.
Aristocrat Receivers range from 16 guineas
to 75 guineas.
ARISTOCRAT
to
Advertisement of Electrical Specialty Manufacturing Co., Ltd., 17 Glebe Street, Glebe,
SYDNEY.
For Sale
Original “WIDE-WORLD TWO” Short-
wave Receiver (illustrated B. 18/3/’36).
10 to 90 metres. Completely shielded.
Coils plug through front panel. Fine
vernier laboratory-dial control and tuning
condenser.
With Valves £9
Don B. Knock, c/o “The Bulletin.”
“RADIO”
The foremost technical authority
of the radio amateur.
Published monthly.
No progressive experimenter
should be without this magazine.
Keep your station up-to-date by
reading “RADIO.’'
Subscription now 20/- per annum,
accepted at “The Bulletin” Office,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
VN
RADIO NEWS
ECONOMICAL HIGH-FIDELITY VOLUME
CONTROLS.
Those who work with sound, either
from a P.A. or a “ham” point of view,
often find themselves faced with difficul-
ties in the matter of volume controls.
The ordinary potentiometer is very use-
ful, but where audio has to be attenu-
ated and quality must be maintained at
high and low levels its use spells compro-
mise between price and the quality of
the output.
In all work in sound studios, broad-
casting stations and the like where audio
currents are to be transferred from one
circuit to another and must be controlled
in level, it is recognised that through
the whole process impedances must be
matched. The generating device, whether
it be photo-electric cell, gramo. pickup or
microphone, has its own definite impe-
dance, and will develop its maximum out-
put at all frequencies only when the load
into which it works is of equal impe-
dance. With the normal potentiometer
this requirement is satisfied only in part,
since with the potentiometer connected
across the generating device the latter is
always working into the same load —at
any rate, as far as the control itself.
Beyond -this, however, vastly different
conditions prevail. Picture in the mind’s
eye the ordinary potentiometer connec-
tion with the moving arm connected to
the input side of a transformer, the other
end of which connects to the lower end
of the resistance. As the arm is moved
down the resistance, the impedance in
parallel with the transformer primary
becomes less and less, giving an ex-
tremely unbalanced state of affairs. The
effect as the arm is moved towards the
low-volume end of the winding is to cut
away the bass frequencies and leave the
tone thin and unpleasant. This is due to
the fact that beyond the resistance
shunted across the generating device the
impedances become progressively un-
matched as the arm is moved. Best
quality output is only obtained when the
device is working at full volume.
“T” Pads.
The term “pad” is simply another
name for a control or attenuator. The
most commonly used form of pad is the
“T,” which gets its name from the
appearance it gives in a schematic
diagram (see Fig. 1). It gives a perfectly
balanced impedance, both for the gen-
erating device and for the input device at
all levels of attenuation.
As the arms revolve, a and c increase
in resistance as b decreases, and as b
increases a and c decrease. Each sec-
tion is of the same resistance, as, for
example, in a 500-ohm fader (another
name for the instrument) each “leg” is of
500 ohms.
In Australia “T” pads cost £2 10s.
The experimenter usually relies on his
potentiometer, which costs 4s. or ss. But
a “T” pad can be made very cheaply.
In Fig. 2 the “T” pad is drawn in a
slightly different way. It is still a “T”
pad, however. The requirements are
two wire-wound potentiometers of equal
resistance, made in Australia and cost-
ing about 4s.
In the writer’s case the two pots, which
form the simple “T” pad are of the
usual 10,000-ohm type, the first (com-
bining legs a and b) connected across the
pickup and the second (leg c) being con-
nected as a, plain rheostat in series with
the moving arm. Moving the two con-
trols simultaneously gives perfect change
of volume without change of tone.
The writer understands that since the
original unit was built up a manufac-
turer has produced a ganged control for
use with variable selectivity intermediates.
This ganged control presents itself as the
ideal cheap “T” pad, and if the com-
ponent appears in other values besides
the standard one now available (about
8000 ohms) there should be a rush for
the thing.
R.H.A.
What Is Polyiron?
Polyiron is a patented magnetic core
material, moulded from a mixture of
microscopic particles of iron and an insu-
lating binder. In production it is held
to absolute uniformity; it can be
machined as accurately as a solid metal.
The advantage of Polyiron over ordinary
iron in the construction of radio and
intermediate frequency coils is the
absence of eddy currents and hysteresis
losses. Compared with air-core coils,
Polyiron’s peculiar properties produce
performance characteristics far superior
in selectivity and gain.
When a coil is wound on a Polyiron
core, less wire is necessary to secure a
given inductance than if the coil had an
air core. Hence, with less wire, the coil
has less resistance and lower distributed
capacity.
Advantages of Aladdin Coils.
Aladdin coils for R.F. and I.F. trans-
formers are wound on Polyiron cores,
obtaining
thereby the
advantage over
air-core coils
of increased
gain and selec-
tivity. Every
Aladdin trans-
former must
pass the re-
quired test
curves on two
o s c illographs
before being
shipped. A
single broken
strand of litz
wire can thus
be detected.
The accom-
panying curves
Kilocycles Off Resonance
illustrate the superiority of Aladdin
I.F. transformers. Notice that the
band width at a voltage ratio of
lOx is nearly 15 kilocycles less than
the best air-core transformer. This
increased selectivity, plus the higher gain
of Aladdin transformers, makes one i.f.
stage ample for the most powerful type
of receiver desired. Aladdin trans-
formers have the additional advantage of
smaller size. The best air-core trans-
formers are contained in shields almost
twice the size of the type A-100 Aladdin
unit. Aladdin coils use smaller shields.
—(From Polyiron Data Sheet 1135.)
City Short-wave Diallings.
A few slight changes appear in the
German South Asia programme for April.
The experimental stations DJP (25.31 m.)
and DJO (25.43 m.) have dropped out,
and DTE (16.89 m.) has been added to
the list. DJR (19.56 m.) now commences
at 4.30 p.m. instead of 3.30 p.m., and
DJL (19.85 m.) at 9.30 p.m. instead of
7 p.m. DJB (19.74 m.) continues till 2
a.m. instead of 1 a.m. The first Letter
Box for Australia (April 7) will have
been given by the time this note appears,
but (here will be a further one on April
21, while there will be Letter Box fix-
tures for Maoriland on April 14 and 28.
All these are to be heard at 6.55 p.m.,
and there is little doubt that the hour
will prove far too early for any cer-
tainty of good reception here. The
March 17 Letter Box fixture was at 6.50
p.m., and was scarcely readable on DJB.
Since then this station has steadily de-
teriorated, and sometimes one has diffi-
culty in following even the news in Eng-
lish at 10 p.m. One expects the 19m.
band to weaken as the summer season
passes, but it is worthy of note that on
the date mentioned (March 17) the
Dutch station PCJ, on 19.71 m., was heard
in good strength for over half an hour
before DJB came on. The contrast was
marked, and cannot, of course, be ex-
plained by the supposition that the Ger-
man transmission was not intended to be
directional to Australia.
News has been received from Perth
that the new A.W. short-wave station
VK6ME at Applecross will be estab-
lished this month. It will have a range
of from 20m. to 50m. and its Ipro-
grammes will be run on the lines of 3ME
and 2ME.
The D.E.I. stations PLP, PMN, YDB
and PLY, or some of them, are now
heard nightly in very good strength. They
supply entertainment of the “light con-
cert” type which does not require any
great degree of concentration on the
part of the listener. There is un-
doubtedly a demand for “background"
music which will appease the ears while
the mind is occupied with reading, writ-
ing, card-playing or even talking. The
D.E.I. stations meet this demand more
agreeably perhaps—though this is a
matter, of opinion—than do the local
stations. Generally speaking, they give
identical programmes, the best reception
being usually obtained from PMN or
YDB. One evening, in particular, the
full, round notes of a girl singing oratorio
were reproduced by PMN with a won-
derful sense of nearness —a characteris-
tic of Dutch stations generally. By the
way, a station has been heard at 7 a.m.
on the same wave-length as YDB (i.e.,
just below 2RO), the language being
apparently Dutch and the quality much
the same as that of YDB. The hour,
however, would be very early for the
Javanese.
Since March 18 Japan’s familiar pro-
gramme, which normally proceeds from
JVN, has been heard from the wave-
length of JVM. The same change-over
was noticed for a short period during
the latter part of last year.
The Russian station on about the wave-
length of JVH is occasionally heard late
in the evening giving music of the ultra-
modern type in which the “machinery”
motif is prominent. As an artistic ex-
pression of the Soviet’s absorbing pas-
sion for industrialisation, it is most in-
teresting.
After 11 p.m. one sometimes hears a
station on 49.6 m. which is difficult to
identify owing to the long intervals that
separate the announcements. Reception
is spoilt by a spraying sound on this
particular part of the dial. Nevertheless,
one can hear the announcer—a woman
with a good voice—speaking in English,
and at length one’s patience is rewarded


RADIOTRON
BATTERY SERIES
SAVE SIXPENCE EVERY WEEK
(AVERAGE USE)
The new battery-operated series of Radiotron Valves specially designed
for Australian conditions supply the two important features in radio receivers
for country use, i.e., improved performance and greater economy in operation.
When buying a battery-operated receiver see that it is equipped with the new
Australian-made Radiotrons. Their economical operation will make your
batteries last longer.
f
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart.
Radiol ron
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company, Limited.
by the words “Colombo calling!” The
quality of the station improves consider-
ably towards midnight.
The new Rabaul station VJZ, though
distinctly better than it was at the out-
set, is still far from perfect. The voice of
the operator comes through very clearly,
but when music is being played—it is
usually a Gilbert and Sullivan recdrd —
the bass is toneless and reverberant. One
evening it produced some realistic tropi-
cal effects which the operator explained
by saying; “The noise you hear is the
wind and the rain, and our studio is not
noise-proof.”
One morning the writer rose at four
o’clock to test reception. RNE was
easily the best, broadcasting opera from
the Ukrainian State Theatre. In the inter-
val before the third act a summary of
the two preceding acts was given in a
number of languages, including English.
This was really a very high-class per-
formance, excellently reproduced, and
it is possible that Moscow was testing its
new transmitter, which is said to be the
most powerful in the world,
DJJ, usually a weak station, was heard
surprisingly well in a broadcast of Herr
Hitler’s seventh election speech. The
voice of the Fiihrer easily surmounted
the noisy background, and one had an
excellent opportunity of studying his
oratorical skill. Contrary to what is
popularly assumed, he speaks—or can
speak—with considerable restraint, but
this only serves to give greater emphasis
to the perfervid passages in which his
voice, in high, singing tones, arouses the
crowd to bursts of deafening applause.
There was no doubting the enthusiasm
he evoked, and at the conclusion of his
speech national songs were sung with
every manifestation of the German
spirit. By contrast, it is interesting to
study the guarded phrases of the German
news-propaganda—guarded, that is to
say, in all references to England, for
which at present Germany evinces a
brotherly tenderness, but curtly contemp-
tuous in all references to Russia or
France.
P.R.W.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Reference was made last week to the
fact that GSJ (13.97 m.) had not been
heard in the No. 2 transmission of the
8.8. C., but this now needs correction.
Owing to a turn slipping on a high-fre-
quency coil the writer’s receiver was out
of calibration until noticed.
GSJ is superior to GSG in the 16-
metre band at 10 p.m., and it is not
until nearly 11 p.m. that GSG is the
stronger. GSJ has been fair and well
audible on ’phones until 11.15 p.m.,
when it became almost inaudible.
The early evenings are very poor until
nearly midnight for the 19-metre band,
when German and French stations are
both good, with WBXK fair.
The 49-metre band is improving in
the morning, with GSL best and the Ger-
man next. Thirty-one and twenty-five
metres are good until 8 a.m., GSC and
2RO being equal in strength, but tele-
graphy station FZR often ruins the 2RO
transmission.
RNE is almost inaudible at 9 p.m.
on 25 metres, and is little better by
10 p.m. So far the Russian 49-metre
station in the morning is weak.
RNE has been a disappointment this
summer, not being comparable with pre-
vious years. This may be due to an
alteration in the direction of the antennae.
No. 1 8.8. C. transmission is still good
on 25 and 31 metres, but although GSB
is the stronger GSD is the more pleasant
to listen to because of lower noise level.
The higher frequencies are remarkable,
telegraphic stations being heard at all
hours around 12 metres and lower. There
are, of course, in most cases, harmonics
of prominent stations on lower frequen-
cies.
The 80-metre amateur band was in-
vestigated on several nights, but static
is still very severe.
For those seeking Morse practice, the
W.I.A. station VKSWI in S.A. runs a
useful session between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m.
every Wednesday night on the 40-metre
band.
The 20-metre amateur band is very
lively, and ’phone stations in many lan-
guages can be heard at all hours.
Short-wave broadcasting is particularly
interesting at present because of affairs
in Europe.
NIGHTOWL.
Adelaide Sees Latest in Radio.
South Australia’s Centennial Exhibition
is noteworthy from a radio viewpoint for
the extensive display arranged by Amal-
gamated Wireless (Austral-
asia), Ltd. Some very fine
examples of commercial
wireless equipment are
available for inspection,
and the marine section
alone illustrates the tremen-
dous advancement made in
this very important field of
radio in the last few years.
It is no small feather in the
cap of Australian-designed
equipment that A.W.A.
sends equipment made in
this country to British dock-
yards for installation in ves-
sels in course of construc-
tion for Australian and
M.L. shipping services.
Adelaide Steamship Co.’s
Manoora was one, and
others are to be similarly
equipped. Aircraft radio
is assuming increasing im-
portance in Australian
affairs, and A.W.A. is well
to the forefront in this re-
spect. New aircraft trans-
mitting and receiving equip-
ment is shown. This is
mainly of the new direc-
tional type for guidance of
aircraft on predetermined
courses. In addition, every
aspect of A.W.A. radio activity is re-
vealed to visitors, including the latest
range of Radiola broadcast receivers,
models of the Beam station at Fiskville,
Victoria, and A.W.A. radio electric
works at Ashfield (N.S.W.), marine auto-
matic distress transmitters for small craft,
portable “pedal” transmitters for inland
work and broadcasting station apparatus
including the lOkw. type, three of which
were recently put into action in Maori-
land. “Australia’s National Wireless
Organisation” is a title of which Amal-
gamated Wireless is justly proud.
Amateur Chatter.
The main topic among Australian
amateurs at present is 20 metres
and its remarkable long-distance ’phone
capabilities. A few years ago one
couldn’t rely on “20” for more than half
an hour in the evenings. Conditions are
now such that, with a reasonable radiat-
. ing system and good modulation on even
a low-wattage carrier, lengthy two-way
conversations can be run off for hours
with scores of Americans and other
nationalities. Every Sydney 20-metre
’phone man must have enjoyed such con-
tacts within the last week or two. Start-
ing around 3 p.m., American ’phones
reach R 7 to 9 rapidly, and with minor
strength variations stay thus until 11 p.m.
At times the congestion in the American
’phone band is acute, with severe hetero-
dynes marring contacts, but occasionally
clear patches prevail. Those who have
worked with W6ITH, one of the strong-
est, should see the description and illus-
tration of this station in “Radio” for
March this year. Mr. Tibbetts, the
owner-operator, chose a position on
the hills behind Beverly, California, and
the house was built to suit radio require-
ments. Rack-and-panel design is fol-
lowed throughout, and there are sepa-
rate transmitters and receivers for every
band from 2\ metres to 160 metres.
W6ITH can afford to purchase commer-
cial equipment, but makes his own —a
good example to all amateurs. Another
strong West Coast station is W6LLQ,
and these two are much sought after by
VKs.
The writer enjoyed the most interest-
ing of 20-metre ’phone contacts on the
evening of 29/3/’36 when an unusual
conversation took place with W2EUG in
West Caldwell. New Jersey. This station
The A.W.A. stand at the Adelaide ( S.A.) Centennial
Exhibition.
was heard with remarkable strength and
clarity, calling CQ DX, but in an obvious
whisper. Contact established, it was
learnt that the operator was in bed be-
tween the blankets on a cold morning,
had just half-awakened and decided to
see what was doing. His station has remote
controls at the bedside. A special direc-
tive aerial array is used, with four half-
waves in phase, and this aerial is switched
by a magnetic change-over from trans-
mitter to receiver. In addition to this,
the transmitter, some distance away, is
actually tuned from the bedside by
motor-driven controls and push-buttons.
The transmitter can be tuned thus to
any position within the American 20-
metre ’phone band. During the contact,
which lasted well over an hour and a
half, W2EUG opened the microphone
gain wide, and a robin could be heard on
the room window-sill chirping away with
the break of dawn —the United States’
answer to the kookaburra! So effective
is the aerial array at W2EUG that signal
strength of the writer’s station was re-
ported as “R 9 plus.” The power used
this end was less than a third of W2EUG.
Directive arrays are used also for 10
metres, and special tests with a 60-watt
station in Honolulu have resulted in com-
munication on 10 metres being obtained
at any time, due solely to the use of
similar arrays at both ends. W2EUG
explained an interesting theory on
ultra-short-wave DX, and is confi-
dent that, observing certain rules,
five-metre work between U.S.A. and
Australia will be achieved. As no
doubt many other Australians over-
heard this lengthy conversation, some
new ideas will be hatched regarding five
metres during 1936. Whether five metres
or lower frequencies, it is very certain
that the day of “blind radiation” is done
for reliable DX in desired directions./The
amateur with space at his disposal for
multiple arrays with reflectors is for-
tunate, and there the countryman has the
city suburbanite cold. Even so, this
Reinartz Beam idea is well worth apply-
ing to all bands.
The N.S.W. Division of W.I.A. held
its “annual” at Dungowan Cafe, Syd-
ney. A minute’s silence was ob-
served in memory of the late Hiram
Percy Maxim and Col. Clair Foster,
two pioneers whose signals will be
heard no more. Toasts and speeches
were many. Lieut. Cormack, of Cavalry
Divisional Signals, stressed the impor-
tance of good operators in time of
national emergency. The new council
has hard work ahead, but the enthusiasm
of members and allied clubs inspires con-
fidence for a very successful future.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
Second Divisional Signal Co., A.I.F.
Association, is holding the ninth annual
reunion at 7.30 p.m. on Saturday, April
18, at the Legacy Club’s room, 118 George-
street, Sydney. The function will be
marked by the second annual presenta-
tion of a trophy by the parent company
to 2nd Divisional Signal Co., A.M.F.,
who will attend in uniform. This trophy
is unique in design, being a casket sur-
mounted by a torch, symbolising the
spirit of the old company. Timber from
H.M.A.Ss. Australia and Sydney was
used in the casket. At 7.15 p.m. a
wreath will be placed on the Cenotaph.
The Q. and A. Column.
F. Joel sends stamps for Bulletin 29/1/’36,
containing article on Little Twin receiver, but
no address.
* * * *
(1) Location of station VKP, heard near
ARK on several occasions, broadcasting electri-
cal lectures and messages to telephone-line
mechanic in Gympie ? (2) Ownership and
0) ° f
(i) Brisbane. (2) It is owned by the Bris-
bane City Council Electric Supply Co., and
works on 140 metres. Evidently you have
been hearing the overtone trom this trans-
mission, being closely located in Brisbane City,
(3) No information available.
To be described in next issue.
THE IDEAL AMATEUR
SUPERHET.
This new superhet is a big advance
over conventional methods. It uses
four valves only, for battery or A.C.
operation. First and second
detectors are regenerative, and iron
core intermediate frequency trans-
formers are employed. Beat oscil-
lation control for C.W. incorporated
in second detector. Works perfectly
at 1 0 metres, and for headphone use
requires only a small B eliminator
for plate supply. The answer to
the selectivity problem in a con-
gested area. Powerful and super-
sensitive. Designed by an amateur
for amateurs.


••SILVER
EDGE'*
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory fftep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE , VIC.
Balanced . .
SrMNI MOTORING
2 ■
m
m
m
m
m
mm
YA
Ift*
Only accurate pressures will give your tyres the perfect
balance which means so much to your comfort and safety
on the road. And only a gauge of proved efficiency and
precision is worthy of your confidence for the regular testing
of your tyres.
Cheap gauges offer you price advantage, but cjannot
guarantee the KISMET feature of ACCURACY—which is
so essential in a tyre gauge.
it
%
c
'em
A Qauqe is useless unless accurate-worse, itis misleading m
L lib. units individually numbered on wide, flat
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
SA Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
|rw • 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The Steering Column.
SAVING SECONDS.
WHERE MISTAKES ARE MADE.
By FRED BERRY.
TN round figures 60,000 new motor vehicles were registered
in Australia during the last 12 months, bringing the total
now on the roads to 650,000. Figures for the past two years
exceed those for the whole five preceding years, and coinci-
dent with this extremely rapid increase has been a disturbing
rise in the number of highway accidents.
Transport authorities and interested
organisations have attempted to evolve
some practical method of coping with
this tragic state of affairs—so far with-
out marked success. It appears that the
only solution of the problem lies in
thoroughly educating motorist and pedes-
trian alike by a comprehensive and well-
organised “safety-first” campaign.
Few road-users fully realise what a
potential instrument of destruction a car
may be when carelessly handled. A ton
or more of metal hurtling along at the
Riding on a cushion of air. A new independent suspension
system evolved by Firestone Tyre Co. which is now
undergoing tests.
high speed possible to-day may do tre-
mendous damage. While the economic
value of automobile transport lies in
speed and mobility, motorists must be
made to realise that in their endeavors
to save seconds they frequently incur the
grave responsibility. of placing the lives
of others in jeopardy.
Faulty Judgment.
Highway accidents are seldom caused
by mechanical failure in the car. Fully
80 p.c. can be ascribed to errors of judg-
ment by drivers. In instances where steer-
ing failure or “blown” tyres are blamed,
it will usually be found that the mechani-
cal failure was a result of the accident,
and did not contribute to it. A con-
siderable improvement in the standard of
driving would soon be observed and far
fewer accidents recorded if every motor-
ist from the day his license was secured
would cultivate the habit of subcon-
sciously assessing distances and speed.
After burning benzine for 30 years and
making during that period a close study
of highway and traffic problems, the
writer is firmly convinced that, except in
isolated cases, only those who from the
inception of their motoring career make
a habit of studying speed and distances
develop into thoroughly safe or cour-
teous drivers.
How many motorists know exactly
what one-fifth of a second means when
seated at the wheel of a car in motion?
Even at the comparatively low cruising
speed of 30 m.p.h., the car covers nine
feet in this fraction. The driver who can
think and act one-fifth of a second faster
than others has this comfortable margin
to work on in an emergency.
Competition drivers learn, sometimes
from bitter experience, that to take one’s
attention off the road momentarily when
moving at speed is to invite almost cer-
tain disaster, and the same must apply
relatively to less experienced motorists
at lower speeds,
especially in con-
gested traffic. It
follows therefore
that, until the
majority of drivers
develop the faculty
of instantly making
correct assessments
of distance and
speed, accidents are
bound to happen
when, in an endeavor
to save seconds, the
car is driven fast.
Automatic Reaction.
Good drivers be-
come almost auto-
matic both in antici-
pation and reaction,
so that they are able
in an emergency to
apply the necessary
control with a mini-
mum of delay, whereas the ordinary
operator not only takes longer to move
controls, but is slower in sizing up the
situation.
Observation of various types of driver
shows that the competent cruise at speeds
governed from moment to moment by
traffic conditions. Though to the casual
observer this pace may appear to be un-
necessarily slow or exceedingly fast, yet
the driving is always to a definite and
calculated plan, for while apparently per-
fectly at ease this type keenly watches
everything within range of vision, gaug-
ing distances and speed, and governs his
actions accordingly.
As a consequence drivers of this type
not only travel with a minimum of delay,
but never look like getting into difficul-
ties, Not only is every emergency pro-
vided for with a generous margin of
safety, but more often than not the other
parties, whether motorists or pedestrians,
have their minds made up for them by-
prompt and definite action.
On the other hand, the not-so-com-
petent driver, even though a person of
orderly and careful mind, seems to be
for ever running into difficulties where
none should exist.
Confusion and Panic.
Usually the situation leading up to an
accident has been plainly developing for
some moments, but owing to lack of
experience or because he is driving the
car at a speed beyond his capacity, with
consequent intense concentration upon
the road ahead, the driver has failed to
realise the danger until the last moment.
Then, faced with a crisis, calmness van-
ishes, and whatever thinking may be done
is thoroughly confused, while in many
instances there is mental panic. This
means that valuable seconds are lost and
the damage is done, whereas anticipa-
tion, good judgment and prompt action
might easily have saved the situation.
It is clear that the human element has
not caught up nor kept pace with the in-
crease in speed of modern cars. While a
few years ago any experienced driver
could manage the speediest stock car,
to-day one must be well above the aver-
age before full throttle can be used with
any degree of safety. Road risks are
known to be greater at 60 than at 30
m.p.h., but few drivers realise that they
are actually not twice but four times
as great at the higher speed. Thus it is
that so often the self-confident novice
at the wheel of one of the fast new-type
cars presses the accelerator pedal to the
floor and either turns the outfit over on
the first bad corner or fails to pull up in
time to avoid a collision.
A general misconception as to the stop-
ping powers of modern braking equip-
ment has much to do with situations such
as these. Bustling drivers attempting to
save seconds by accelerating fiercely in
traffic, believing they can stop “dead”
at any moment, are certain to meet with
trouble.
Emergency Stops.
Four-wheel braking systems as fitted to
later-type cars are undoubtedly highly
efficient, and the average stopping dis-
tance of the last 12 cars tested over the
Bulletin course was 21ft. from 25 m.p.h.
It does not follow that were a child to
fall directly in the path of the car and
22ft. away an accident would be avoided
by braking. An appreciable time is
occupied in applying the brakes, and in
this “thinking” period the car travels
some distance, depending upon its speed
and the rapidity with which the driver
can act. Perusal of the accompanying
plan, setting out graphically the average
distances required for stopping at various
road speeds may lead to a better concep-
tion of what well-adjusted brakes may
reasonably be expected to do, and if
memorised and put into practice will cer-
tainly be the means of preventing a
number of acci-
dents.
In the plan heavy
black lines repre-
sent the “thinking”
period; the dotted
lines represent
stopping distance
after brakes have
been applied. It
will be seen that
even at the com-
paratively low
speed of 20 m.p.h.
the safety margin
is 40ft., half of
which is used in
the “thinking”
period. At 30
m.p.h., mind-lag is
Grapkiic illustration of “thinking” period when brakes are
applied.
extended to 35 feet, increasing at higher
speeds as indicated.
Valuable though these figures may be
both in saving time and in avoiding
accidents it must be remembered that the
information from which the data was
compiled dealt with vehicles in good
mechanical condition, driven by motor-
ists of experience. Drivers of limited ex-
perience, or whose reactions are rela-
tively slow, or again those driving cars
fitted with inefficient brakes, must make
a corresponding allowance if they wish
to avoid trouble.
Preserving Exterior Finishes.
In early days of paint and varnish
'finishes for automobile bodies, skill,
patience and hard work were essential in
the process of cleaning, and whilst
lacquers have in recent years removed
much of the drudgery or the necessity
for special skill or experience, yet motor-
ists who require a continuously smart
appearance must still make frequent
applications of one or other of the special
cleaning compounds.
This problem has now been effectively
solved by the new Colorcoat resealing
process, whereby lacquered bodies, once
having been treated, maintain a brilliant
lustre with no further attention than an
occasional rub over with a soft, dry
cloth.
This result is obtained by first remov-
ing all traces of dust or impurities from
the “pores” of the existing lacquer and
then resealing these “pores” with a
lacquer paste similar in color to the ori-
ginal finish.
By this means a brilliant and almost
mechanically perfect surface is secured,
protecting the original lacquer from the
effects of sun and weather, and prevent-
ing the surface from holding particles of
road dust or other foreign substances.
Yellow Lights and Road Safety.
French Action.
On the recommendation of the French
National Motor-cars and General Traf-
fic Commission, the French Govern-
ment has issued a Ministerial order that
on and after July 1, 1936, all motor-
car headlights must have glasses of the
new cadmium yellow type. This ordi-
nance applies also to all foreign cars
which cross the frontier into France.
Decision is based on the findings of a
special Commission on Headlights, which
reported that from the point of view of
minimising inconvenience to road-users
the superiority of yellow light to white
light is unanimously recognised ; that the
hindrances to sight caused by yellow
light are of shorter duration than those
caused by white light; that as regards
the intensity of the light obtained it is
certain that even if there were a


One-fifth Mile
Petrol
Coasted
from 1
15 m.p.h.,
Yards.
Acceleration
From
Top-gear
Gross
Weight.
Cwts.
[aximura
Speed,
m.p.h.
from 10 to SO ni.D.b.
0 to 50
Slow
Acceleration
Turning
Average
Con-
Make of Car.
iF.K Denotes Free-wheeling.)
R.A.O.,
n.p
Kurrajong "(Time in Seconds).
Hill Climb. Top Gear. Third. Second.
m.p.h.,
Seconds.
Running, Average,
m.p.h. m.p.h.
Stopped from
25 m.p.h.
Circle, Feet,
Left. Right.
Speed,
m.p.h.
sumption,
m,p.g.
Graham "Standard 6" Sedan . .
Terraplane "6" Sedan . .
Chrysler Plymouth "6" Sedan . .
Standard “10" Sedan (F.W.) . .
Ford "10" Sedan ..
Wolsaley 14/48 Sedan (F.W.) . .
Dodge "DU" Sedan . . . .
Oldsmobile “6" Sedan . .
De Soto "6" Sedan ..
Ford V8 Sedan . . . . . .
Chevrolet Master Sedan. .
Vnuxhall "Light 6" Sedan
Hudson “8" Sedan (F.W.)
Chrysler "6" Sedan .. . .
21.60
21.60
23.44
11.98
10.00
14.00
25.35
26.30
27.34
30.00
26.30
14.07
26.80
27.34
28.50
30.00
30.50
23.50
19.00
24.25
31.50
34.25
33.75
30.50
34.25
27.25
33.25
35.50
704
665
702
683
715
695
710
728
697
715
732
742
720
685
69.2
75.0
75.0
60.1
62.9
61.0
79.3
73.2
80.0
76.6
73.2
65.2
91.4
79.3
3min. 45sec.
3min. 23sec.
3min. 23sec.
5min. 5sec.
4min. 1 7sec.
4min. 1 7sec.
3min. 1 5sec.
3min. 36sec.
3min. 1 8sec.
3min. 1 8sec.
3min. 45sec.
4min. 28sec.
2min. 56sec.
3 min. 2 1 sec.
8.6
7.0
8.0
1 1.6
10.8
12.8
7.6
8.2
7.4
8.0
8.2
10.2
6.0
8.0
8.6
8.0
7.0
5.2
4.6
4.8
7.4
6.6
6.0
5.0
5.6
4.6
5.0
5.0
5.8
3.8
5.2
15.4
12.0
12.0
23.0
23.0
19.0
12.0
14.8
10.2
11.0
16.0
18.4
8.2
12.2
4.8
3.1
2.1
5.4
4.8
4.0
3.1
5.0
5.2
5.0
4.1
4.9
3.6
2.9
42.3
43.0
40.0
36.0
36.0
33.3
43.9
41.8
44.4
45.0
41.8
35.4
48.0
48.0
25 ft.
20ft.
20ft.
1 9 ft.
22ft.
19ft.
24ft.
19ft.
22ft.
22ft.
19ft.
19ft.
20ft.
21ft.
Oin.
6in.
Oin.
Oin.
Oin.
3 in.
6in.
Oin.
Oin.
6in.
6in.
bin.
9in.
6in.
42
40
42
36
38
40
41
36
42
39
46
36
46
32
42
43
42
36
38
40
41
36
42
39
46
36
47
32
35.0
36.6
38.0
33.7
35.2
34.0
38.0
35.4
37.0
38.0
36.4
33.9
36.7
37.2
24.6
22.5
21.7
30.4
34.6
31.1
20.7
19.6
23.4
19.8
21.)
28.7
20.3
18.5
1936
Series.
32.8
21.5
44.6
37.0
22.4
19.7
22.4
20.5
Morris 8/40 . . . . . .
Morris “25" Sedan
Austin "7” . . » .
Willys “77" Sedan
Buick 8/40 Sedan .. . «
Oldsmobile "8" Sedan ..
Chevrolet "6" Sedan . . . .
Pontiac "6" Sedan
8.90
25.01
7.80
15.63
30.63
28.80
26.30
27.40
16.50
33.00
14.25
25.25
35.75
36.25
30.50
35.00
615
728
646
725
733
683
702
731
55.4
72.8
50.4
75.9
77.9
81.0
70.0
76.2
5min. I9sec.
3min. 48sec.
5 min. 56sec.
3min. 43#ec.
3min. 24»ec-
3min. 1 8»ec.
3min. 35sec.
3min. 34sec.
16.0
8.6
16.0
9.4
7.8
7.0
8.4
8.2
9.0
9.0
5.8
5.2
5.0
5.0
5.0
5.0
35.0
13.4
38.0
15.4
14.8
12.2
13.4
14.0
5.3
3.8
3.8
5.7
4.3
3.3
4.4
3.8
33.6
45.5
34.2
47.4
48.6
44.4
42.8
41.8
24ft.
25ft.
23ft.
19ft.
23ft.
22ft.
21ft.
22ft.
6in.
Oin.
6in.
oin.
9in.
Oin.
Oin.
6in.
36
39
38
34
39
37
38
38
36
39
38
34
39
37
38
38
36.0
34.6
33.4
35.7
35.7
35.2
34.7
3 7.3
-
! ;
“Makes
Finish
LAST LONGER”
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
VEEDOI
v\\ MOTOR OIL
V coat K)t a pint —•
\ it would itUL be cheap
Yet —It costs no more than
other oils.
Veedol, the world’s best
Motor Oil. 100 per cent.
Pure Pennsylvania.
Obtainable everywhere.
/s
Q
V 27
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED All SWc
“DULUX” as a car-finish cannot be
bettered. It dries HARD; it retains
its lustre longer; is easier to keep
clean and bright, and has far
greater wear-resistance! Ask your
re-finisher about this amazing
“miracle finish.”
★ A Product of British Australian Lead if.
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd., makers of
famous "Duco" Lacquers and
“iVo. 7 Specialities for the Motorist.”
JJALHf
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
DBS
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
PERFORMANCE DATA OF CARS TESTED OVER “BULLETIN” COURSE.
1935 Series.
difference it would be too small to
counterbalance the improvement of con-
ditions when cars pass each other; and
finally that, in the event of fog or rain,
yellow light has undeniable advantages.
The commission furthermore brought
forward all the advantages of yellow
light from the physical and physiological
points of view. Fear of monopoly has
been removed, a prominent manufacturer
having announced that in view of the
general interests at issue he waived his
rights to make use of his patents for all
lamps destined for lighting motor
vehicles and bicycles. This concerns the
cadmium glass bulbs; it was also
announced that in one case at least the
commission had received and approved
a glass bulb coated with yellow coloring
matter which complied with the condi-
tions.
This decision of the French Govern-
ment must strengthen the hands of
those in Australia who have continually
maintained the virtues of yellow light in
the interests of “safety first.”
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
N.O’S. (Beaudesert, Q.). —I intend giving my
’26 model four-cylinder engine a general over-
haul. What is the most suitable material to
put on gaskets to stop oil leaking and make
gaslight joints ?
Unless metal faces are true no material
will prevent oil leakage, but generally gold
size makes an excellent joint. If a new c.a.
gasket is to be used on cylinder head, merely
smear with petroleum jelly before tightening
down. This will prevent damage by tearing
when next the motor is dismantled.
•fc
C.E.G. (Malvern, Vic.). —Some months ago
my petrol tank was holed, and I soldered on
a galvanised patch which so far has stopped
leak. As an additional precaution I have
attempted to cement a larger patch on, but I
cannot get any material to adhere to a smooth
surface and be petrol-proof at same time.
W hat can be used ?
There is no need to use metal for the pro-
tective patch. Get a stout piece of canvas,
cut to size, then saturate it and smear metal
surface with either a paste of litharge and
glycerine or very strong glue solution to which
a few crystals of either ammonium or potas-
sium dichromate have been added. Both
should dry flint-hard, the latter particularly
being insoluble in petrol.
* * * *
W.E.G. (Keith, S.A.). —My ’25 model car
at 40,000 miles has developed a knock between
clutch and transmission. Depressing clutch
pedal cuts out knock, but it reappears as soon
as pedal is released again. Cause and cure ?
If there is no indication of slip when load
is applied, the trouble is due to worn bearing
surfaces in the withdrawal mechanism, and the
only certain remedy will be to replace worn
parts.
* * * *
J.E.C. (Garah, N.S.W.).— Is it possible to
use a T-model Ford engine fitted with an air
propeller to drive a T-model Ford car chassis,
with all unnecessary parts removed, over
smooth ground ?
Yes, there are many instances of air screws
being used to propel land vehicles. Maximum
speed on the level, with an efficient design,
would possibly equal that obtained by con-
ventional drive.
* * *
W.G. (Julatten, N.Q.). —Who would be in-
terested in an idea for headlight dimming ?
Consult a patent attorney in one of the
larger cities, who will advise if the principle
has already been patented.
* * * *
F.S.K. (Hobart, Tas.).—(l) I have a ’35
D.V. Dodge without vacuum-operated spark
control, and have trouble in finding the cor-
rect ignition setting. What is it ? (2) What
advance on factory setting is advisable when
using super spirits ? (3) Of the fuels and oils
named, which do you recommend ?
(1) Factory setting of ignition point is for
breaker points to open 2deg. after T.D.C.
(2) Depends on combustion-chamber design,
internal condition of motor and fuel used, but
successful running has been obtained with
advances up to lOdeg. (3) All are first grade,
and selection will depend on car used and the
driver’s particular requirements.
* * * *
D.R. (Brisbane). —(1) In what order of
preference would you place the five cars
named ? (2) In the Bulletin test one of these
cars was reported to do 22.7 m.p.g. Could I
obtain same result ?
(1) No. 3 first; others equal. (2) Figures
published were obtained in a strenuous test,
including use of full throttle for flying mile,
hill climb and accelerating tests. You should
do better on long trips with rational driving.
In cities frequent stop and start would bring
the figure back to about 19.
* * * *
W.N. (Burwood, N.S.W.). —My ’36 car is
seldom used at night, and I am afraid the
battery will be harmed by overcharging. Would
keeping headlights burning for an hour or so
daily avoid trouble ?
Only in exceptional cases are batteries over-
charged, and with modern types where gen-
erator is fitted with voltage control excess
charge is unheard of. In any case, if you
desire a lesser charge, don’t waste the effective
life of the headlight globes and annoy other
road-users by using in daylight, but have the
third brush on the generator shifted until
charge rate is brought down to your require-
ments.
Motor Oddities.
“Tally-ho”: Nowadays in many
western N.S.W. towns the axle, wheels and
tyres of Model T Fords are prized by the
bakers and milkmen. With the small
pneumatic-tyred wheels the strain on
the horse is halved and riding in the
vehicle is much smoother. In one in-
stance I saw four such wheels on a
drover’s waggonette. It was fully loaded,
and starting at 9 a.m. did 30 miles
before sundown on a blazing midsummer
day.


THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Cbe mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address; MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St,
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. ;RIEUSSET, Representative.
Every page is
a front page in
“The News"
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
TT’S bought to read, when
A there’s time to read
... in South Australia’s
evening hours. Use it to
boost your sales . . . its
all been proved.
It gets into the
family circle ! !
Representation :
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A, G. Pike, First Floor.
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
National
Advertisers;
liEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, l>td., Adelaide.
d
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering’ Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN. 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand. 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —-so that, the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
[Prince’s Chambers,
William Street;
Perth,
Western Australia.
him? They were steadying, ringing in the dark in
a tight, choking maelstrom, churning up a dense cloud
of dust that hung like a thick fog.
They stood off the milling mob, yelling at the
top of their lungs, ready to dash out at the first off-
shoot of the tightly-packed mob. From somewhere
came the fierce banging of a distant whip and Bill’s
wild yell. The mob must have split!
The ringing mob expanded, the pace eased, the
thunder of hooves died down, and suddenly the thick,
dust-laden night was filled with the bellowing of fear-
conscious cattle. The two men redoubled their efforts,
imposing a physical, palpable antidote on the mental
reaction of the stampede. They battled to hold the
demoralised mob together with whips rising and fall-
ing like flails and long-drawn shouts of “Whoa, bul-
locks. Whoa! Whoa back there!" beating down
the continuous bellowing.
A figure loomed out of the dust and yelled :
“That you, Mac? How many have we got?”
Above the din he shouted back: “Don’t know,
Dick! How far are we off camp?”
“Couldn’t say. Over a mile—maybe two. Christ,
this horse can gallop!”
He plunged back to the fray, his loud, trium-
phant, laughing shout echoing above the turmoil.
Even the excitement of the rush could not submerge
his ruling passion.
Progress was slow and difficult. The cattle stub-
bornly refused to be driven back toward the camp,
and little rushes kept swirling back, reclaiming in a
few seconds the advance gained in minutes. Mac
hailed the man on his left. “Dick!”
“Hullo!”
“It’s no use killing the horses to flog them back.
We’ll try and hold them here till morning. Anyhow,
Bill’s out there with another mob, and we can’t get
help till daylight.”
A dark wall of gidya enclosed the clearing on
every side. They rode wide of the mob, allowing them
to expand and settle, but the cattle stubbornly refused
to camp. All night long they walked restlessly
about, thrusting defiantly out in ones and twos, and
sometimes a little mob would surge out with sullen
determination and have to be flogged back.
Mac was dropping with sheer fatigue, but the
cattle allowed no respite, and ever present at the back
of his mind was the dread of what the morning might
reveal. How many bullocks had gone down under
the stampede when that gully yawned suddenly under-
foot? He felt sick at the recollection of his own sen-
sations in that ghastly second as they dropped through
space. The sheer miracle of his survival prompted
an admiration that amounted almost to reverence for
the horse that carried him. He leaned silently for-
ward and pressed a palm on the dank, warm neck.
The dark hours dragged slowly on. Stars rose
and stars set, constellations climbed the heavens, and
the Milky Way leaned its bow toward the horizon.
All night long they rode ceaselessly round the cattle,
Mac forcing a tuneless song with meaningless words
from a dry, parched throat and marvelling dully at
the undaunted repertoire of his mate. Occasionally
the faint echo of a shout reached them. Toward
morning the shouts, and the crack of a whip drew
nearer, and they halloo’d in return.
The cattle turned to stare suspiciously toward
the disturbance. A bullock bellowed an inquiry—a
long-drawn bellow answered it. Then as the eastern
stars began to fade a long string of cattle crashed
through the timber to join them, and out of their
dust rode an apparition on a black horse —Bill, clad
only in boots and shirt, with one side of his face caked
with dried blood. He nodded wearily at the two men.
“Are you all right?”
Mac peered at him.
“Hurt yourself, Bill?”
“No, I’m all right. Have we got them all?"
He stood in the stirrups and surveyed the mob in
the thin light. “Can you two hang on for a bit? I’ll
send Tom down to relieve one of you as soon as Percy
gets the horses.”
Mac struggled hard against the fatigue that
dragged at him.
“I’ll stop a bit. Hadn’t we better count them?”
“Percy and I will canter round the tracks first.
Hooroo! ”
Despite his weariness, the sight of Bill canter-
ing back to the timber with his shirt flapping out
behind and his bare, white legs forced a tired grin
to Mac’s lips. The light climbed slowly in the eastern
sky. He rode on to the mob, started them into action,
then leaned forward on his horse’s neck watching
them feeding their way off camp.
Chapter XIII.
DAY after day and week after week the mob,
losing its bloom and its sleek curves, kept steadily
on its way south and east. As they progressed
the grass got shorter and scantier, until even the dry,
woody tufts of the Mitchell grass disappeared and
left the wide frontage a bare, forlorn waste, scarred
by dry, desolate gullies dotted with acacia and spidery
lignum bushes.
The cattle took on a tucked-up, hunted look ;
their hip bones poked sharply out under their dull
hides, and the weaker beasts gravitated to the tail
of the mob and stayed there, barely dragging them-
selves along. The horses showed signs of the hard
times in their appearance and in increasing lassitude.
Every day the cook made an extra damper, and when
Percy brought the horses in at daylight Bill walked
out to meet them; his horses would press eagerly
forward, crowding round him while he broke up the
damper and fed it to them, and following him back
into the camp for more.
Dick and Tom watched the performance scepti-
cally at first, then one day Tom caught his racehorse
and spent five minutes teaching him to chew a crust.
Mac raised objections to what he regarded as waste of
good tucker and an unnecessary piling up of expense.
In reply, Bill bought an extra bag of flour at
Boulia. “Wait till your horses knock up and you'll
know all about waste!”
Mac faced Boulia with misgivings and he un-
burdened his fears to his partner.
“Well, I wont’ get shickered,” Bill replied. “We’ll
have to let the others in to get a few things from the
• store, and none of them are wowsers, thank God, but
I don’t think they’ll get shot or leave us. The Coker-
nut might—he’s so dry his skin’s cracking—but we’ll
have to chance it. He’s a good old bloke!”
Mac agreed cordially with the last statement.
As a cook, Tim put up with the disadvantages and
shortcomings of a packhorse plant without a murmur,
and the camp fared extremely well at his hands.
Next day the plant pulled up in front of the store.
Packbags were replenished, bags of flour and sugar
strapped on top, and the cavalcade jingled on.
They had seen the last of the Georgina, with its
deep, winding channels overhung with lofty coolabahs
and its dusty cattle camps littered with the dried dung
of tens of thousands of bullocks whose impending
fate was almost as tragic as that of the river.
The West is a hard, remorseless land. A country
of frustrated creeks that sometimes run to fill a water-
hole or two before they peter out miserably in some
dry, rapacious swamp. It tempts the river from the
distant Territory tableland with promises of tribu-
taries that often fail to reach the mother stream,
beckons it on for hundreds of miles past a thirsty,
sterile land, endows it with deep-blue waterholes where
the baramundi lurks, then heartlessly turns it this
way and that, diffuses its gathering force into number-
less channels, and finally confronts it with a barren
waste —leaves it to end ingloriously in the dead heart
of the continent. A tragic river that never reaches
the sea.
Long, dry, waterless stages across open plains
were followed by day after day without the sight
of a blade of grass. At nights the cattle refused
to camp. They would move ceaselessly about,
lowing in quiet, hopeless tones. Horses plodded
along with tucked-up flanks and staring ribs. Bill’s
horses alone showed any life or spirit; he had
doubled their ration of damper and they were doing
most of the work.
They hit Diamantina Gates and headed up the
Mayne, through stony spinifex hills and a welter of
river channels tangled with stunted gidya.
Then the rain caught them. One night as
they camped between an arc of rocky hills and
the river channels, a terrific thunderstorm rolled
up. When Mac relieved Dick West, ominous
rumblings and flashes lit the heavy sky, and
the cattle moaned restlessly. The storm drew
closer, the thunder took on an ugly, menacing note,
rumbling heavily through the hills till the ground
trembled. The lightning was ceaseless and terrifying.
It lit the quartz hills in livid flame, enveloped the cattle
in blinding flashes and zigzagged across their horns.
As the storm broke and the rain descended in a
solid sheet, Bill rode out to help quieten the frantic
cattle. Their restlessness developed into a genera!
surging movement —now this way, now that —and the
rain transformed the ground into a quagmire. They
broke with a roar ; the two men threw themselves at
the lead and headed them, to find the cattle splitting
and scattering in little mobs all round them.
Bill urged his tiring horse to where Mac vainly
tried to block an advancing mob.
“Let ’em go, Mac!” he yelled against the storm.
His partner stared nonplussed, then ranged along-
side him. “But we —we’ll lose them.”
“We’ll lose them in any case! Let ’em go in
a mob.” He rode back and drove the shivering rem-
nant in the wake of the mob disappearing into the
channels. Water streamed from the hills and lay on
the flat in sheets. They piled logs on the fire, built
an earthen wall round it to stop the rushing water
from putting it out; then they congregated round the
blaze—four taciturn men and the cook, with the rain
coursing down their spines and overflowing their sop-
ping, muddy boots.
Percy was the only one who slept that night.
With the inherited wisdom of his mother’s race he
had spread his blankets on a high-piled mound of
boughs and spinifex, and covered himself with a tar-
paulin. He woke at daylight, surrounded by water,
but refreshed, and diplomatically veiled his cheerful
grin from the disconsolate group round the fire.
(To be continued next week.)


wmm
r
Biliousness ! Oh, what an awful feeling !
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
Ml
B"
B
bbO
k
"S 5
k
wm
25
Mrtwwwwwwm
iMHimWWWW
HWtWWMHM<>mHWWWIW
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
s a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
lysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ng with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
oreath heavy or foetid, and tongue
urred, with disagreeable taste and a
:opious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
jpper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
lisposition to grind the teeth during sleep
ire other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
4<>c
0
sri®
cotf
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
preparation compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines. They con-
tain specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
an the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
>3 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and 6
Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
box (six boxes 11/6), post free.
l writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SUP NOW
tN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
o^V”
&
s V ~ C #
bs>S%®S^^t# ooS? .■'' ;•••
&&&%* t^ v ■■■<■■-
A V 5 * 1 V> v %\c^ v . r\\
V .0- * o
i\
*
6 >V vV °*
>c .v»O v
•At* .♦•** ..•** .& '°


IN THE HEART OF THE CITY
-OR MILES FROM A ROWER LINE
VJLT HETHER you live in the heart of a city or miles from a
* * power line, yop’ll get better, clearer, richer and more
faithful reception with a Tasma than with any other set.
When you own a Tasma you own the only receiver which
has air-conditioned Transformers (absolute protection against
humidity and weather changes), the ONLY receiver with
Ferro-Coil, the amazing iron-cored coil which DOES shut
out every sound but the sounds you want to hear. And,
remember, Tasma has EVERY other modern feature which
makes for perfect radio.
Ask your nearest dealer for a
demonstration. He has a full
range of TASMA receivers to
show you.
: V
■
m
m
■
m
mm
■Vi
■
Gilbert Cabinet
Model 375. __ F o u r-valve Battery-operated
Superheterodyne. You will be
astonished at the low battery consumption of this
clear-toned, non-fading:, national-range receiver.
With every part Impregnated against climate-
changes, possessing every feature which has estab-
lished Tasma leadership, this receiver will be the
most popular ever offered to country listeners.
Price, £37/10/- (complete with batteries).
DISTRIBUTORS:
VlCTORlA.—Hartley’s Pty,, Ltd., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne; Noyes Bros. (Melb.)
Pty., Ltd., 597 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne;
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong
Street, North Ballarat.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—ADELAIDE: Oliver J.
Nilsen & Co., Ltd., 49 King William Street;
Chas. Birks & Co,, Ltd., 44 Bundle Street.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.—PERTH: Thomsons,
Ltd., 674 Hay Street.
QUEENSLAND. —G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen
Street, Brisbane, and Branches at Gympie,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Cairns and Mackay. DARLING DOWNS:
Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd., Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba.
*
<-w
w? a
m®:
Zam,
: ;:
m
V ■■:
x:,i
mmm
Masefield Cabinet
Model 326. Six-valve Dual-wave All-electric
Console, embodying: ail the exclu-
sive features described on this page in a cabinet which
js a masterpiece of design and craftsmanship,
sloping Instrument panel and every modern improve-
ment: in mechanical construction. Price, £37/10/-
In New South Wales (slightly higher in other States).
Lawrence Cabinet
Model 310 ™__*' iv e-valve Battery-operated Dual-
wave Receiver. One of the 11 nest
Dual-wave sets ever offered to the country listener.
We urge you to seize an early opportunity of
enjoying: a complete demonstration of this amazing
jLOW CONSUMPTION receiver. Price, £35/10/-
(complete with Battery) in New South Wales
(slightly higher in other States).
365 Five-valve Dual-wave All-electric
Receiver. With Automatic Volume
Continuous Tone Control, Air-conditioned
Transformers and the exclusive FEBRO-COIU.
This Receiver definitely and finally “makes all the
world your neighbour.” A complete absence of
fading ami •'jittering,” perfect control of all waves,
amazing tone and range distinguish this Tasma
model from any other set yon have ever ■ seen or
heard. Ask for a Demonstration'! Price, £29/15/-,
Model
Control.
(All Prices Quoted are for N.S.W. only;
are slightly higher.
in otner states prices
FEATURES OF THE TASIWA:
• The amazing Ferro-Coil Assembly, which
does shut out all unwelcome sounds.
9 No station overlapping.
9 More stations, day or night.
9 No background hiss.
9 No " jittering” on short waves.
9 More volume.
9 Improved lone.
9 tasma floodlit bandspread
DIAL (aeroplane type) and velvet-smooth
action tuning drive.
9 Continuously variable tone control gives
increased brilliance in the treble or addi-
tional mellowness in the bass as desired.
9 Air-conditioned transformers, giving factory-
perfect reproduction under all climatic con-
ditions.
0 Full automatic volume control to prevent
fading.
0 All critical parts vacuum impregnated to
withstand variations of humidity and
climate.
0 Heavy-duty parts throughout guarantee
trouble-free reception.
0 Double aerial terminals (on dual-wave
receivers ).
0 Voltage variation switch covering voltages
between 200-260.
0 Noise-suppression control on all dual-wave
sets.
0 Specially plated chassis.
0 Trouble-free —positive action — self-clearing
wave-change switch. Free fire and burglary
insurance.
RECEIVERS
WITH THE AMAZING
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH, LTD., 55-57 DOWLING STREET, EAST SYDNEY.
