

mt
mm
tM
mm
mm
■< s
m
m
'< ' > %
‘ •'' : A:
: • ".j/ *c;
"
'w!
*
*1
HE SECRET OF ACHIEVEMENT
Between the virtuoso and the tyro in
mastery of the keyboard lie the vital dif-
ferences . . . knowledge plus technique
a , . each the fruits of years of intensive
study and painstaking applicaton to detail.
The secret of achievement in business and
sciences as well, as art has its foundation
in knowledge and the science of investment
is no exception. It calls for a highly
specialised technique covering many
phases of finance and economics.
Investors must have the guidance of
experts to secure returns in the shape of
capital appreciation plus regular dividends
and at the same time eliminate risks.
Hamiltons (Australasia) Limited offers the
services of a large staff of expert invest-
ment advisers to direct capital investments.
Speculation and its attendant risks of loss
may largely be eliminated by confining
investments to shares in ESTABLISHED
companies.
Enquiries concerning such investments are
invited.
Hamiltons (Australasia) ‘limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital £250,000
Head Office, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone, Armidale 150 Bov No a. • . t,,
Umon Bank Chambers, Cnr. of Hunter and Bolton Streets, Newcastle. ’ ’Phone: Newcastle T 942. Arm,dala *
w
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane
G.P.O. Box 1017 N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders’ Street,
Townsville
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAi
C.M.L. Building,
King William Sreet,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z. Chambers
Featherstone Street.
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 562 Wellington
The Bulletin
Another Splendid Serial
Vol. 57.—N0. 2961.
Wednesday, November 11, 1936.
Price 6d.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
Uil
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HERE AND MAIL,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
■your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 486 ..
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Y ,
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937-
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as* the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature. ....... ... ,
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible tor
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees. ,
Any bona Me Australian resident or any person bom in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made them decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out ot
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
WAR
WORDS
A great deal
of war phraseo-
logy is dead now,
and some of it
sounds positively
archaic. Does anyone remember what
“barbed-wire disease” was? That term
was actually used in an agreement on
the treatment of prisoners to which the
British and German Governments were
parties (July, 1917), and it meant a form of
nervous breakdown. We still have “shell-
shock” with us, and if it were not for
the war we should not so fully appreci-
ate the significance of being “gassed.”
“Over the top,” in the high, heroic
sense, has not lingered with us in living
speech, nor has the full irony that was
contained in the phrase “the steam-
roller.” One recalls an extract from the.
“Times” in 1914: “Our task is stone-
walling, and that of the Russians is
steam-rolling.” ,
Of course, such words as “Waacs” and
“Wrens” (signifying the lady-recruits of
both non-silent and silent services) had
life for the moment only; but the
“Times” recorded in 1917 that the
Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps were
spoken of as. “Waacs” by the men. The
officers, presumably, did not speak of
them at all, as it was against regulations
to speak to them, except on strictly
official business. And the “Times” later
referred to the Women’s Royal Naval
service as the “Wrens.”
“Dugout” was not a coinage of the
Great War. It had been used 60 years
earlier in the Crimean campaign, and
with the same meaning ; but il must have
been a bright young subaltern who ex-
tended the meaning of this word to cover
retired officers who had resumed active
duty. At the back of the front that sort
of “dugout” was very plentiful, but in
this sense they were rather as folk resur-
rected from the dead than as frequenters
of “dugouts” in the “windier” areas.
The war also returned us “duds”
in a new guise. In the seventeenth
century it was used of small per-
sonal things of any description, and
so, through “rags and tatters,” it came
to be applied contemptuously to a worth-
less fellow, and then to shells which did
not go off. 'The war also familiarised us
with “shrapnel,” which is one of that
interesting class of words adopted from
surnames. Mr. Gladstone’s name is per-
petuated in a bag, and Captain Boycott’s
name in a scheme of non-co-operation.
“Shrapnel,” adopted by the authorities
as far back as 1852, commemorates Gen-
eral Henry Shrapnel, who invented the
beastly thing during the Peninsular War.
“Tanks” was the name devised for the
land ships while they were still shrouded
in mystery, and so it remained.
I recall George Robey, at the Alham-
bra (London), talking to his bemused
relatives about “whizz-bangs” and “pip-
squeaks.” We all knew what he meant,
i hough his unfortunate kindred were in-
vincibly stupid in the matter. Those are
onomatopoeic words, corresponding
roughly to the sound of the missiles, and
were surely invented by some unknown
British soldier. It was an identifiable
soldier, on leave in London, who coined
the name “Jack Johnson” for some of
the ironmongery that was being dropped
on the metropolis at that time.
“Archies,” for the anti-aircraft guns,
came by way of the suggestion that their
efforts were futile. Other forms of
unpleasantness were called, variously,
“plum-puddings” (bombs), “grandmother”
(a 15in. gun with a very gruff voice) and
“aunties” (12-inchers). Observation bal-
loons were “sausages” because they
looked like that, and the enemy’s concrete
machine-gun emplacements were “pill-
boxes” because it didn’t do to take the
war too seriously.
The phraseology of the R.F.C. is still
with us —such as “biplane,” “mono-
plane,” “aerodrome.” They knew even
what “aerobatics” were, though the word
is constructed on a false analogy.
“Volplane,” “zoom,” “bus,” “pancake,”
“crash,” “solo flip” were all part of the
Flying Corps’ everyday working lan-
guage. Ana from this same gallant source
came “streamline” also. In one sense it
meant the direction taken by particles of
air on striking a moving body, but it also,
referred to the shape of many parts of
an aeroplane designed to give the mini-
mum of air resistance. The original
jaunty headgear of the R.F.C. is known
as a streamline cap.
The individuals in the army of our
gallant allies the Portuguese were known
as “Tony,” originally conceived as “An-
tonio.” “Sammy” was the name given
to the American soldiers, and on the
arrival of the first “doughboys” at a
French port the inhabitants, with amaz-
ing unanimity, addressed individual
American soldiers as “Sammee.”
By universal consent the British soldier
was “Tommy,” though probably few are
aware of the actual derivation of the
synonym for a British soldier. It begins
with the story of a young colonel who,
after he had led his first command on his
first campaign, rode down his sadly-
thinned lines, to come upon a dying man.
wounded ’by French sabre, bayonet and
bullet. And as he died this private
looked up at his colonel and said: “It’s
all right, sir; it’s all in the day’s work,”
The colonel wds Arthur Wellesley, and
the soldier was Private Thomas Atkins,
a grenadier of the 33rd. And on a
summer’s day 50 years later the Duke of
Wellington scrawled the name of Thomas
Atkins to serve as a specimen on the new
set of soldiers’ documents which had
been laid before him for approval.
GERALD DILLON.
Censor and
Syndicate
Customs Min-
ister White told
the House of
Rep r esentatives
that “some of
the critics who want no censorship for
their own * wares are inconsistently and
strongly advocating censorship and re-
striction of syndicated stories and
sketches by others.”
The position is that responsible writers
in Australia realise that if literature is
to play its proper part in our national
life the conditions under which it can
exist must be safeguarded. They oppose
the importation of cheap syndicated
matter on economic grounds. Their de-
mands are very moderate; they ask that
users of syndicated matter be required
to pay to the Government a tax equal
to the difference in the price of the. im-
ported article and Australian Journal-
ists’ Association lineage rates, plus 25
p.c. to cover editing costs. Syndicated
stories and articles are available to users
in Australia at from 10 to 15 shillings
each; serials at £lO or so. The same
articles paid for at local rates would cost
the user £6 • or £8 and £3O to £5O respec-
tively.
Syndicated “features” not only cut the
local writer out of a job, but the maga-
zines and newspapers that buy them are,
by virtue of lower publishing costs, com-
peting unfairly with publications that pay
the local writer at a decent rate and so
contribute to the development of vigor-
ous indigenous literature.
The use of syndicated matter has
spread rapidly over the last few years.
It would be a dereliction of duty on the
part of Australian writers if they didn’t
try to do something about it.
Mr. White also challenges the attitude
of writers toward the censorship. The
writer who sees in literature one of the.
dynamic elements of civilised life—and
it is nothing less—distrusts the censor-
ship: for one reason, because he knows
that books are challenged on subject
matter and not on treatment. He knows
that a large proportion of the novels
written (and a still larger proportion of
the films produced) ply the reader
with stories that are a web of false
values. In a word, they are bad art'.
They pass the censor unchallenged be-
cause they circumspectly avoid dealing
with “certain topics.” But the book—
or film—that attempts a serious discus-
sion of life and takes life all standing
is very liable to find its way to the
banned list. To judge a work of art by
anything other than the canons of art
is ultimately to do a disservice to
humanity. No nation can become adult
whose citizens have not the freedom of
the library. Nine writers out of ten
would agree to the foregoing—unfortu-
nately, Mr. White, himself a writer, is
the tenth.
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
Samuel Butler
and His
Family
There have
been attempts
lately by bio-
* graphers to white-
wash the family
of Samuel Butler.
The family is be-
yond the reach of praise or blame, and
so is its distinguished son, and the
endeavor to rehabilitate the Rev. Theo-
bald in public esteem is not likely to
interest people unless they happen to be
Butlers too.
The defenders of the Rev. Theobald
naturally see the world through the same
eyes as he. His son, who had once seen
himself through his father’s eyes, came
to see himself through his own eyes.
The portrait he painted in The Way of
All Flesh was consequently unflattering.
It is asserted that the Rev. Theobald
was a well-meaning man. All people mean
well. In flogging his son with ardor
Theobald was merely following the
fashion of his day. That the results
were not what he expected does not
affect his intentions. In starving his
son while he made a great display of
public philanthropy Theobald was again
acting in the way he thought best.
His wife saw the world through her
husband’s eyes. All she could offer
Samuel was pity, which is a species of
contempt, and Samuel felt contemptible
but did not like the feeling. One of his
sisters followed her mother’s pattern, and
was a second Brunnhilde to the damaged
Sam. The other followed her father
rigorously, and regarded her brother as
an imp of hell. There was enough
tyranny in the Butler home to turn
Butler into a rebel against all authority.
He would have been unconsciously
guided by their precepts to his dying
day.
It would hardly be expected that a
sheep-farmer in Maoriland would be
overgiven to analysis before the days of
Freud, but an analyst, Butler became. He
began to think about himself, not in
terms of the Rev. Theobald, but in his
own. And in due course he came to
write the history of his family in The
Way of All Flesh. That he did not write
it in a spirit of revenge is shown by the
fact that he provided that it should not
see the light until after his death and
the deaths of all those intimately con-
cerned. But a zealous publisher, anxious
to promote literature and Butler’s fame,
gave it to the world while the two sisters
were alive. The sisters were naturally
appalled. They declared they would
never read the work; but it was made
clear to each of them subsequently that
the other had read it assiduously.
It is plain from his letters to his family
that what Butler wanted from them was
not hate but love. But he might as well
have tried to alter the shape of an
elephant by offering it a bun as alter
the shape into which his education had
fashioned the mind of the Rev. Theo-
bald. And finally he gave up hope, and
where there is no hope there can be no
love. Butler, at least, never pretended
that there was.
Theobald fixed so many unpleasant
associations round himself as the chief
authority in his son’s life that Samuel
could easily have become a rebel against
all authority, bad or beneficent. But
some influence had come into his life
which compelled him to pursue a great
number of lines of research, and his re-
bellion against authority took a prolific
turn. When he criticised the claims of
the Darwinians to be authorities on
their master and his theories, he
did so as an authority himself, and
he made them squirm. Before he
made himself an authority on his own
family he became an authority on him-
self, and so he came to know more about
his father and his sisters than they knew
about themselves.
Butler hated and despised him-
self for what he, as much as anyone
else, believed to be his. cowardice... .All
this made him very unhappy, for it never
occurred to him that the instinct which
made him keep out of games for which
he was ill-adapted was more reasonable
than the reason which would have driven
him into them.” Unable to tell himself
that health, strength, courage and beauty
were not good things, he set to work to
attain to them in his own way. The way
he happened by some chance to choose
was one which made him one of the
most courageous thinkers of his day.
M.G. Skipper.
Philip
Guedalla
Fate, has played
an odd trick on
Philip Guedalla.
Years ago, when
by hard work he
might have been earning a reputation as
a writer, he was irreverently enjoying
himself, making clever remarks and
laying the foundations of a remarkably
diffused culture. To-day when the fruits
of that hard work might be apparent in
the books which he issues with increas-
ing rarity we have the oddities of an
impersonal, pruned and effeminate style,
the cleVer twists of a manipulator of
words who writes as a historian, the
wit that speaks of the notebook and the
carefully ordered phrases of the social
lion. Mr. Guedalla has once more made
history interesting, we are told (the
gentleman himself gibes at the unread-
able books of his predecessors). Yes,
but he has ended by making it no longer
history.
Consider Mr. Guedalla’s book Palmer-
ston. Here are the wit, the wealth of
allusion, the sprightliness for which he
is admired. Here is the period, shut
between covers. The one thing that is
lacking is Palmerston. “He creates,” his
(Continued on page 4.)


'Truth in Advertising’
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store?
Anthony Horderns
BORG
AUTOMATIC
B ATH ROOM
SCALE
7i
JwwitoiG Jif GMd
\ip
Even your best friends won’t tell you—and an unwilling
eye may easily ignore a growing tendency to plumpness
but there s one good friend who always speaks the
truth—your “Borg” Bathroom Scale.
WHAT YOU SHOULD WEIGH
ŵ
WATCH YOUR WEIGHT
DAILY !
Find out in time and it’s a simple matter
to avoid extreme obesity. Doctors always
warn against overweight.
After your morning bath, when
you have thoroughly dried
yourself with a vigorous towelling,
step on the scale and see what
you weigh—and govern yourself
accordingly.
ACCURATE
PORTABLE
COMPACT
In
GREEN,
IVORY
WHITE,
BLACK
or BLUE
ENAMEL.
276
ẁ
t such a low price, a “Borg” Scale should be in every
bathroom.
Chromium Finish with Rubber Top
In Black, White, Green or Ivory. ■! 0%
Price ’ each 37/6 AJ H
• Household Ironmongery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. '
Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
Good Points
About
“BORG ”
1 — Genu i n e
Rubber Mat.
2 Requires no
oiling.
3 —Water-
proof.
Weighs to
18 stone
by one lb.
-%r
I
Carefully constructed in attractive modern design, this
compact personal weighing scale is specially built for
homes and flats where iloorspace is at a premium. It
is extremely light in weight and perfectly accurate.
The Borg Scale is handsomely finished in Green,
Ivory,) Blue, White or Black enamel. With coloured
rubber top. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
Price 27/6
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS LTD.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C» G.P.O.


publishers tell us, “a Palmerston atmo-
sphere.” It is too true. There is no
man in the book, only a grey presence
slaving at the War Office, writing and
writing, a man who is “an industrious
apprentice,” an automaton to whom
higher things miraculously came. Yet
there was Palmerston, brilliant in his
speech, gay, witty, with strong social in-
stincts and a deep love of fun, leading a
society life, touched by scandal once or
twice, dining, gaming and deriving an
infinite amount of amusement from the
manner in which he contrived to goad
the military mind. There was Palmer-
ston, vivid and purposeful, waiting to
be painted. He was the man who had
dominated the politics of his time, had
clashed with all the leading figures of
his period, friend and foe, conquered
them as he had conquered his body and
had, in the eyes of Europe, become Eng-
land. His liberal instincts allowed him
to listen to that queer, mad fellow
Ashley, who was proposing unheard-of
reforms, to rank them almost equal to
the Derby; his foreign policy was to
color Britain’s relations for a century.
There was Palmerston, the man who sat
erect in the saddle when reviewing the
troops in the late seventies of his life,
the man whose wife embraced him one
dawn in the Commons after the Gov-
ernment averted defeat. He was wait-
ing to be depicted, but all Mr. Guedalla
could do was to give us “a Palmerston
atmosphere.”
There are many good points about
Mr. Guedalla. He is amusing, and he
is irreverent and can challenge authority
as a matter of course. He helps us to
an understanding of events by his belief
that the truth is the better for a little
teasing. He is often nearer right in his
wit than many another fellow who has
written in all seriousness and would be
gloomily concerned at some of the sug-
gestions which Mr. Guedalla broad-
casts with lighthearted ease of mind. But
he is quite unable to re-create a living
man. His gallery of portraits of the
American Revolution is as flat as if they
were all painted upon a wall. Each
figure is caught in an odd, stiff gesture.
It may be near the truth, but it is more
caricature than portrait. His adjectival
efforts are often a burden to the flesh,
and even the discovery (so often made)
that many an inaccuracy is pardoned for
the sake of a nimble half-truth does not
rescue his pages from that surfeit which
waits upon an overgenerous style.
Mr. Guedalla has another t handicap,
too. From the point of view of his
future it is more serious than these other
factors to which allusion has been made.
After all there is nothing against him
practising writing in public and being
well paid for it. But this other matter is
vital. It is the matter of his mind. In
his works the words “odd” and “quaint”
abound. The curious, the exotic attract
him always, for that is his nature. Yet
to the historian there should be nothing
merely “quaint.” His work is directed
to the interpretation of available evi-
dence in the terms of human truth. For
that task he must be equipped with the
sensitiveness of a psychologist, or, better,
of an artist. It is here that Mr. Guedalla
is lamentably limited. He poses, he is
coruscating, amiable and interested in
his exhibits, but he always has a faint
air of prodding them with a cane. He
is less a craftsman than an amateur, and
one determined that whatever may fall
he will not remove his coat for the job
on hand. His mind is drawn by the
spectacle of the gap between human
aspiration and human performance, but
his emotions are never in play. To him,
his characters have less importance, less
reality even, than an insect under a
microscope. His attitude always has a
slight flavor of the scientific and good
spice of the gentleman. His sympathy is
sharply limited, and does not extend to
the beings whom, with all the manner of
a small boy pinning down butterflies, he
periodically displays between the covers
of a book. Like the butterflies, too, his
exhibits are. undeniably dead. Mr.
Guedalla has been a very successful his-
torian for very definite reasons. As he
himself once remarked, “the English
dearly love an amateur.”
QUENTIN POPE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
SHOOTING STARS
Attic Meteor, by Dennis Parry (Robert
Hale and Co.; 7s. 6d.), has merit as a
novel, though slick plot manipulation dis-
qualifies it as serious fiction. The early
part, telling of Demetri’s childhood in a
mountain monastery, his flight from it
and his subsequent life, first as a beggar
boy and then as a cafe waiter in Athens,
is good reading, both for treatment and
unusualness of subject. The reader is
made to feel the physical reality of the
monastery, the bare mountains and the
village that lies below. The individual
characters of the monks are in sharp
focus. Particularly good is the death of
Theodore, with each of his brothers com-
ing to his bedside reminded of faults in
order that he may be forgiven ; a grimly
funny mixture of piety and spleen.
In Athens the cafe loungers are well
presented. They read and argue over
as many as a dozen newspapers a day.
Demetri perceived that the racial sport,
drug, relaxation, substitute for work of the
Hellene was government. Every other
man was a,dictator in his own imagination.
The cafes were their parliament houses
where civic pride, volatilised, went up in
clouds of words like the spirals from their
cigarettes, and, like them, ended in
nothing. They lacked driving power, and
were satisfied with the cheap pleasures of
make-believe. Demetri suspected that h 6
knew better than any of them how to run
the country.
From that' suspicion springs the rest of
the story. Demetri accidentally discovers
a gift for writing pointed topical com-
ment, and becomes the protege of Panak-
tis, a newspaper proprietor, to whom he
subsequently introduces Kylenko, a
Greco - American gunman - racketeer,
refugee from the law of his own country.
Demetri, a patriot, is prepared' to use
dirty means for lofty ends, and Panaktis
is corrupted by prospective increases of
power as a result of partnership with
Kylenko in nefarious enterprises. Pavlos,
a friend of Demetri’s early days in
Athens, is taken into partnership as ac-
countant —the honest man whom the
rogues trust. Love interest is provided
by Rhode, who, offstage, is a motivating
force in Demetri’s life, and by Carol, a
beautiful but fifth-rate American actress
who is secretly Kylenko’s mistress.
After the entry of Kylenko, the book,
with its gunfights, pursuit and flight by
motor-car, wisecracking conversations
and hairbreadth escapes, smacks too
much of the Hollywood screen, though
it is partly saved by some scenes handled
with depth and sincerity. Among these
is the interview of Atanasoff, a native
racketeer and the rival of Panaktis and
Kylenko, with Theotikis, the incorruptible
Government Minister. Another is the
scene in which Rhode, who had earlier
denied her love for Demetri, seeks him
after experiencing an unhappy marriage,
only to learn that the tenderness he once
felt for her has turned to bitterness. In
such situations the author shows with
what understanding and fine restraint he
can write when his attention is wholly
on human values and not on plot
mechanism. The book ends with
Demetri’s return to the monastery.
* * *
JAPAN MOVES SOUTH
We are accustomed to thinking of Japan
as a small group of islands in the north-
west Pacific. It is hard to realise that she
extends to-day in one unbroken sweep from
the snows of Siberia to the Equator. Let
a Japanese general so much as tweak his
moustache and a tremor runs down the
spine of Asia from Vladivostok to Mel-
bourne.
Thus Willard Price in the preface to
his Rip Tide in the South Seas (Heine-
mann: Angus and Robertson). Price,
an American journalist, records his
experiences of travel in the Caroline and
Marshall islands. He took passage from
Yokohama, and his desire to stay longer
than the steamer’s period of call was re-
sisted by the authorities to the limit of
courtesy. The “tide” of the book’s title is
a human one, and the implications of
the qualifying adjective are made fairly
obvious. The narrative falls into two
complementary parts. Some chapters
describe the more or less untrammelled
native scene as encountered and enjoyed
by the author. Others are like samples
of Oriental inlay. They describe the
Japanisation of the islands during recent
years.
The author is an observer trained
in putting a reasonable construction on
what he sees. Fifty-one thousand Japa-
nese have migrated to the islands and are
engaged in fishing, agriculture, commerce
and Governmental administration. Ener-
getically and intelligently, they are de-
veloping the mandate as a Japanese
colony. The natives, though they would
prefer to be left alone —“our young
men are forgetting the use of leisure” —•
like their present overlords better than
either the Spaniards or the Germans who
preceded them. The Japanese are pater-
nal towards the natives, in whom they
perceive some sort of racial affinity ; in
the opinion of Price Nippon will eventu-
ally absorb them by intermarriage.
The natives will disappear into this tidal
wave as a bailerful of water into the sea.
Nor is the sweep of Japan southward con-
fined to the mandated islands, but is ex-
tending to many others twice as far from
the homeland. We are witnessing the
most fundamental change in the Pacific
population since the Polynesian migration
of more than a thousand years ago.
Japan is making sure of her position
with regard to the mandated islands by
effective occupation. The author thinks
the idea that Germany will ever regain
possession of them rather amusing.
The improbability that Japan would
permit land inhabited by her nationals to
go under the sovereignty of another Power
is only matched by the embarrassment Ger-
many might experience in trying to govern
territory inhabited by Japanese.
A very interesting picture is drawn
of this Japanese tropic colony and also
of the architectural and human vestiges
of German and Spanish occupation.
“Buenos dias,” said an old native whom
Price passed on a jungle track. “Guten
morgen,” said a middle-aged man.
“Ohaiyo,” said a youngster with Japanese
schoolbooks under his arm. The man-
dated area ends about 50 miles north of
New Guinea. The volume is well illus-
trated.
* * * *
AMERICAN PASTORAL
The scene of William March’s A Song
for Harps (Richard and Cowan ; Angus
and Robertson; Bs. 6d.) is a timber-
milling and cotton-farming district ‘ in
Alabama, and the author uses uncon-
ventional and effective means to convey
impressions of his Arcady and to suggest
his rural types. Andrew, who has a
facial disfigurement and a cleft palate
that makes his speech almost unintelli-
gible, writes poems to celebrate his love
for Myrtle. Unfortunately, his love goes
awry. Myrtle tolerated his wooing only
in order to get to know his brother, the
handsome but unreliable Jim. She
seduces Jim, and, later, inveigles him
into marriage while he is drunk. They
go to live on the farm with Andrew, Jim
working by day at the mill. Moved by
recollection of his own treachery toward
his brother, Jim fears that a similar turn
will be served him. This, the working
of a weak and sensual man’s jealous
imagination, leading ultimately to tragic
results, is the core of the story.
The blurb claims that the author is
“one of the most significant novelists
produced by America since the war.” His
book is interesting by reason of its
freshness of attack and sincerity of inten-
tion, but falls short of being satis-
factory for two major reasons. One of
these is that it is badly proportioned.
The events leading up to the main situa-
tion could have been foreshortened ad-
vantageously and easily by the omission
of certain semi-irrelevant matters. More
importantly, the author does not grasp
an outstanding quality shared by his
characters. They—with the exception of
Andrew, who is an eccentric —are images
of vulgarity cast for parts in high tragedy,
an effect that can be brought off only if
the author gives evidence of being fully
aware of what values he is handling. In
the absence of this imaginative under-
standing on his part, it is difficult —even
while admitting that his characters are
authentic and fully alive —to take as
much interest in them as he does him-
self. The book, nevertheless, makes one
reader wish to see more of Marsh’s work.
* * * *
LOVE AMONG THE HEDGEROWS
Sugarhouse Entry, by Richard Hay-
ward (Arthur Barker; 7s. 6d.), is a first
novel that calls for praise and censure
in about equal proportions. The author
undoubtedly has gifts. Among them is
a prose style as limpid and easy-running
as a mountain stream, a sound feeling
for human character and the ability to
make his reader sensuously aware of the
natural scene economically and without
apparent effort. His tale is one of cross
purposes in love in County Down. The
main characters are Rosie, daughter of
a publican, who wishes to marry Robert
Dunseith, a young widowed farmer;
Hannah, Robert’s youngish housekeeper,
who is also in love with him; and
Johnnie, Robert’s ploughboy, brother to
Hannah, who is wildly and hopelessly
in love with Rosie.
The author’s main faults are naivete
and lack of belief in his reader’s intelli-
gence. It is irritating—or amusing—
when he insists upon pointing out his
characters’ qualities. We know that
Rosie is a flinty-hearted, scheming little
piece, and we know that Hannah, whose
unrequited love for Robert finds vent in
devotion to his motherless children, is a
woman of worth. It is apparent from
their behavior, and the author’s inter-
polated testimonials only go to undo his
own excellent work. The naivete occurs
when his sense of the probabilities falters.
Hannah decides to leave Robert s home
secretly one night. She goes upstairs to
pack, but comes upon a child’s dress that
she has promised to lengthen. Hayward
■would have us believe that she, aban-
doning her firm intention, becomes so
intent on the work that time slips by
unnoticed until daylight appears in the
window, and it is too late for her to go.
The author himself is not convinced of
the likelihood of such a thing, and can
be heard laboring to make it seem
probable.
Against these shortcomings can be set
firm handling of other situations. The
breaking down of Robert’s devotion to
the memory of his first wife and his final
enslavement by Rosie, are particularly well
done ; and the subsidiary characters, such
as Arty Tosh, who trundles a perambu-
lator containing a Bible on a cushion
from farm to farm, exchanging gossip for
occasional platefuls of food, are convinc-
ingly presented.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Fiction: No Retreat, D. J. Hall
(Harrap); The Brothers Ashkenazi, I. J-
Singer (Putnam); An Ordinary Life,
Karel Capek (Allen and Unwin); Tare
Harvest, Eleanor Peters (Cape); The
White Hare, Francis Stuart (Collins).
Travel: Rip Tide in the South Seas,
Willard Price (Heinemann); Stone-age
Bushmen of To-day, J. R- B. Love
(Blackie); News from Tartary, Peter
Fleming (Cape).
F.D.D.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION . . .
Khyber: Edmund Barclay (Angus and
Robertson ; 65.). International intrigue,
secret service agents, love affairs, the
rattle of machine-guns, peace and a
happy ending in an imaginary native
state on the Indian north-west frontier;
by one well known for his radio plays.
Japanese Maple: Daniel Pecorini
(Geoffrey Bles ; 10s. 6d.). A confessedly
autobiographical novel based on the
author’s recollections of Japan and Man-
churia at the time of the Russo-Japanese
War. Style pleasing, but narrative
method amateurish. The author re-
peatedly pushes his puppets to one side
and comes down to the footlights to speak
directly to the audience. Would have
been better as straight memoirs.
I Am Black : J. Grenfell Williams and
Henry John May (Cassell; 7s. 6d.). A
young Zulu chief’s unfortunate love
affair and equally unfortunate contacts
with white civilisation. The authors
know what they are writing about, but
they fail to make their characters any-
thing more than symbolic abstractions.
Steam Packet: David Mathew (Long-
mans ; Green ; 65.). Describes a paddle-
steamer crossing from France to England
in 1838, the year of Queen Victorias
coronation. In addition to felling of the
hazards of the sea at the time, it attempts,
through a study of the passengers, to re-
construct the social atmosphere of the
period. The purely fictional passages are
good ; the sociological delving heavy.
GENERAL . . .
Mother Says No: F. E. Baily (Collins,
7s. 6d.). Author, who for donkeys’ years
has edited the “Royal Magazine,” knows
his Fleet-street, and his story of a horse-
trainer’s daughter who gave up a
meteoric career in journalism to become
the wife of a successful playwright is
witty and entertaining. The lady was a
better mother than she was a wife, so
she lost her man and went back, not
unhappily, to the Inky Way.
TRAVEL . . .
Tibetan Journey: Alexandra David-
Neel (Bodley Head; 12s. 6d.). A
woman’s travels through north-eastern
Tibet. Interesting ; but the author is the
heroine of her own narrative, and her
self-consciousness —of the assured kind
—comes between reader and subject.
The Green Paradise: Catherine Robin-
son (Lothian). Notes of travel by an
Australian woman who went some dis-
tance up the Amazon and also toured in
the Argentine. Informative and well
illustrated with photographs by the
author.


10/6
Gallon
I
MIXED
READY
i 3
5*
NON-POISONOUS
10/6
Gallon
Science applied to paint has brought about a wonderful reduction
in painting costs. Dan Dee Household Paint, manufactured by
scientific methods, ground in powerful mills to perfect smooth-
ness, lasts longer, looks better, and costs less than old-fashioned
paint. A pleasure to use, it works easily, covers thoroughly, and
dries with a solid, bright finish. Obtainable in a range of I 5 most
attractive colors. Have your paint supplier obtain some for you.
METROPOLITAN PRICES:
10/6 Gallon, 5 9 Half Gallon,
3/6 Quart, 1/10 Pint,
1/- Half Pint.
Country Freight Extra.
COLORS:
Eau de Nil, Dark Stone, Light Stone,
Dark Green, Mid Green, Red Oxide,
Chocolate, Cream, French Grey,
Bungalow Brown, Mid Stone, Light Blue.
Also in Black, White and Flat White.
When You Use DAN DEE, You Save Money
FELSPAR PRODUCTS
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets, Alexandria, Sydney
Telephones: Mascot 1025-1026.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■
■A
$
a
■
11
WOTAN
Winner of the Melbourne Cup
1936.
Owners - - T. A., W. and R. Smith
Trainer - - J. Fryer
Jockey - - O. Phillips
Weight--7st. 111 b.
Time 3min. 21^sec-
1


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2961.
November 11, 1936.
UNDESIRABLE IMMIGRANT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zbaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambion
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE RIGHT SORT OF REFERENDUM.
Unless the Senate revolts, the electors of Australia
are to be invited in February or March to emasculate
the inter-State Freetrade section of their Constitution
by voting that its “provisions... .shall not apply
to laws with respect to marketing.” The admitted
object is to secure benefits for sections; the mass of
the people are in no way to be compensated for the
sacrifice asked of them, nor is there to be any guar-
antee for isolated States that their right to send their
produce wherever they please in the home market will
be maintained. It is not difficult to predict how
those States will vote.
This is the sort of referendum that The Bulletin
would like to see:
Are you in favor of giving the Commonwealth
Parliament supreme and unchallengeable powers to
make laws with respect to:
| Yes. | No.
(1) Trade and commerce? 1...... |
i „ I
(2) Marketing, but so that there j |
shall be no discrimination be- |
tween States or parts of States? j...... |
! I
(3) Corporations, so that there shall j
be one company law. for Aus- I !
tralia? ! |
I I
(4) All industrial matters? I I
I i
(5) Income taxation, so that there
shall be one income tax and one | |
income-tax department for all |
Australia? | |......
i I
(6) Education? j
(7) Transport in all its forms? 1
. I I
(8) Wireless broadcasting, television
and everything relating thereto? | |
Put a cross or a figure “1” under “Yes” opposite
any question you wish to vote for, and under “No”
opposite any question you wish to vote against. Any
ballot-paper with one cross or a figure “1” for “Yes”
or for “No” will be valid.
To carry any of these proposals a majority of the
total votes counted and of the votes in four States will
be necessary.
The carrying of any or all of the proposals will not
mean that all or any will be embodied in Acts of
Parliament at any particular time; but it will mean
that the Commonwealth Parliament will have power to
pass such measures'when it chooses, subject to the right
of the people to pronounce judgment on such measures
at general elections.
If any or all of the powers granted are exercised,
consequent Commonwealth legislation will nullify any
existing State legislation to the extent mentioned in
Section 109 —“When a law of a State is inconsistent
with a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall
'prevail, and the former shall, to the extent of the incon-
sistency, be invalid.”
There is nothing in the Constitution to forbid the
compilation of a ballot-paper of that description, and
a ballot-paper of that description would save the cost
of issuing three million referendum pamphlets, as is
now intended —they will be used chiefly for fire-
lighters, as were the reports of the Commonwealth
Royal Commission on Secession, which were dis-
tributed among the electors in three States. And if
questions aimed at making the Constitution an effec-
tive instrument of government were put to the people
the referendum would interest a far greater number
than will the wretched thing which the Government at
Canberra proposes; and the prospect of securing a
majority of ayes on the question that immediately
interests the “orderly-marketing” people would be
enormously increased. If a grant of full trade and
commerce powers were sought there would perhaps
be no need to seek marketing powers also ; but the
thing might be made a separate question for good
measure.
If the Government goes on with its present plan,
£lOO,OOO to £120,000 will be spent uselessly ; and,
although an industrial-matters referendum has been
vaguely promised, there will be no chance of getting
a grant of other powers until the memory of the
fiasco will have died away. It is only humbugging
the farmers to tell them that a referendum to “imple-
ment marketing schemes” —an “alteration” which, Mr.
Maurice Blackburn says, “seeks to empower the Com-
monwealth Parliament merely to give validity to
schemes which it does not initiate, and for which it
can take no responsibility”—is sure to be carried. It
can’t be carried.
The Northern Gate.
Though Darwin is the centre of N.T. government
there are three colored persons in Darwin for every
white person, garrison included. Broome, the largest
pearling centre, had a population of 1536 when the
Tariff Board visited it; 331 were indented Asiatics
and 854 colored Australians. These last include abori-
ginals, but they are chiefly made up of the sons and
daughters of previously indented Asiatics. Thursday
Island has about 120 whites and 1000 Asiatics, East
Indians and Papuans from fleets which work as far
away as the Arus, off the New Guinea coast.
In short, colored population grows, white popu-
lation dwindles. It is, to some extent, a result of
modern developments in pearl-fishing.
Post-war peak production in the pearlshelling
industry was reached, in 1929-30; then the shell won
was worth £455,000 sterling, averaging £146 per ton.
In 1933-34 production was valued at £186,000, averag-
ing £122. To 1930 Australia produced 85 p.-c. of
the world’s pearlshell. When depression and tem-
porary oversupply sent prices tumbling the Japanese
came into the business and brought more trouble for
the Australians engaged in it.
Australian shellers found themselves loaded with
depression taxes and all manner of restrictions ; com-
pelled—naturally —to use machinery and materials the
produce of white labor; compelled also to pay wages
which, though low by Australian standards, gave
Asiatics working from foreign ports an advantage.
Says the Tariff Board:
Carefully-prepared figures were submitted to show
that the cost of raising shell at Broome is £l3B p.t.
Broome pearlers asked the Commonwealth
Government for a bounty of £lOO per diving unit,
reducible in the event of rising prices till it should
disappear at £145 per ton. The opinions of Thursday
Island and Darwin were only sketchily obtained:
To meet the convenience of pearlers from T.I. and
Darwin, the board arranged for an inquiry to be held
at Brisbane. No evidence was tendered on behalf of
organisations of pearlers operating at the places named.
But a couple of T.I. pearlers who happened to
be in the southern capital objected to the bounty and
plumped for removal of customs duties on gear and
equipment and related concessions. The Tariff Board
adopted the recommendations of the casual witnesses.
It is four years since the first Japanese luggers
arrived. After two years the Commonwealth Govern-
ment agreed to build a launch armed with a machine
gun to patrol 4000 miles of coastline and keep off
marauders. Most of the news about the launch—
which was built in England—has been of the “Comic
Cuts” variety. Once it nearly sank in Darwin Harbor.
On another occasion it was discovered hanging by its
neck in mid-air, having been attached to a wharf by
too short a painter. How far it has kept off foreigners
who are taking away the bread of northern coastal
towns may be judged from a letter written by the
Darwin Pearlers’ Association.
The association states that Japanese vessels
operating in the Arafura Sea have increased to 80,
and will this year fish 2000 tons of shell —500 tons
more than the output of all the Australian-owned
luggers in 1934. They operate from the Pelew Islands
in Japanese Mandated Territory. And along with
that advantage go cheap rations:
Rice is obtainable at Pelew for £8 per ton. To land
a ton of Australian rice at Darwin costs £24. Sugar
they get at Java down to £5 per ton, against our
landed cost of £33. Their lubricating oil costs Is. 4d.
a gallon, ours 6s.
The Japanese escape Australian license fees of
about £lO per boat p.a. and all local taxation. At
Darwin they now get the pick of the corps of
Australian-trained divers who know where the shell
is and how to get it. And, instead of having
to work from tender ships and take their crews back
to the Pelews for rest —diving is an exacting pursuit —
they are able to bring them to Darwin for recupera-
tion and for medical attention, and to obtain fresh
vegetables there. Before Darwin port facilities were
granted, it would have been almost impossible for
them to work the new shellbeds off Goulburn Island,
which are 280 miles east of Darwin. Now, after
they have nearly cleared out the Bathurst Island beds,
including the chicken-shell, source of future supplies,
the Goulburn Island beds have practically been
handed to the Japanese as a free gift.
The only hope of salvation for Darwin and most
other Australian pearlers, if nothing is done for them,
will lie in working from Dobo or Saumlaki under
the same conditions as the Asiatic fleets. If the
Government does not move faster this will happen.
The immediate result will be at least a 40 p.c. depopu-
lation of white North Australian communities.
No Asiatic should be allowed to compete with
Australians except on an equal basis. Every foreign
boat operating in northern waters should be denied
the use of Australian ports unless it pays dues
sufficient to give Australians who pioneered the
industry a fair chance. And foreign Govern-
ments whose nationals are interested in pearling
should be asked to co-operate in preventing shell-
beds being wiped out by the indiscriminate fishing
of chicken-shell. Newfoundland had to fight for its
fisheries. Japan would do the same if competitors
were operating in extra-territorial waters off Japanese
coasts. Australia can do no less.
Heading for Trouble
Measured in sterling, Australian imports for the
first three months of 1936-37 exceeded exports by
£3,119,000. Exports amounted to £20,246*000, which
figure included £2,778,000 in bullion and specie ;
taking merchandise only, they were up £1,536,000
compared with the first quarter of 1935-36, but
imports, at £23,365,000 (including £563,000 in bullion
and specie), were up £2,833,000. An unfavorable
commodity balance of £5,334,000 sterling was not
bargained for when Mr. Gullett introduced what he
called “the trade-diversion policy” on May 22.
In its last annual report, the Commonwealth
Bank Board revealed that for the 1935-36 year an
excess of exports amounting to £23,000,000 was
required to meet external interest on Commonwealth
and local authorities’ debts (in 1931 £31,000,000 was
required, but conversions and the Hoover moratorium
have effected the reduction), and that the actual excess,
“including new gold produced,” was only £22,000,000.
In the previous year the deficiency was £8,000,000.
The board appended a warning:
London funds al present are sufficient for normal
requirements, but are not sufficiently high to provide
an adequate reserve against adverse circumstances. We
should aim at a favorable balance of overseas payments
for a number of years.
Leaving out of the argument the economic conse-
quences of “the trade-diversion policy,” the adverse
circumstances seem to have arrived in the shape of
drought in Westralian pastoral and wheatgrowing
areas, and—to put the best lace- on the situation—a
very dry season in wheatgrowing and dairy-farming
districts in other States. But Canberra, it seems, is
not a bit alarmed.
“Exports,” said Mr. Gullett on May 22, “must
pay for imports” (of course, they need to do that and
at least £23,000,000 more); and, so saying—as the
principal U.A.P. newspaper put it —“he announced a
policy of limiting the importation of many goods
from other countries.” But instead of imports
going down they have gone up, and, in spite of there
having been a considerable rise in the value of wheat
and flour, increase in exports for the first quarter of
1936-37 failed by £1,131,000 sterling to keep pace
with increase in imports. And apparently October
figures will not reduce the gap much; it is admitted
that customs and excise collections were greater by
£42,400 in October, 1936, than in October, 1935.
Maoriland has done a lot better. For nine months
of its financial year, which begins on April 1, exports
exceeded imports by £11,384,800 sterling, up
£3,835,200. Its Labor Government has not gone in
for “trade-diversion.” .
Armistice.
Every year commemoration of Armistice Day
becomes more artificial. In time, no doubt, it will
peter out altogether. When the dailies determine that
it no longer has news-value they will drop it, and,
publicity denied, the tub-thumpers will follow suit.
Meanwhile it might fittingly be made occasion
for a genuine armistice ; a calling-off, if only for this
one day in the year, of all the war-mongering and
alarms that we have had to listen to for so many
years.
Almost since the day the Armistice was fixed we
have been told not less often than once a week that
“the world is nearer to war to-day than at any time
since 1914.” Daily newspapers possibly keep the
lugubrious phrase set up ready to drop into any odes
corner that needs filling. Politicians, writers on world
affairs and pulpiteers have wailed it forth, every one
of them doing his bit to prevent a sorry world from
shaking off its bad dose of war neurosis.
They have only to keep this sort of thing up long
enough to get what they seem to want —another foul
mess of bog, waste, disease and slaughter. Probably
they would have had it before this if it were not for
one or two considerable impediments. One of these
is money, or its equivalent. The last butchery not
only left the world sufficiently mentally sick to be
easily kept on edge by the silliest of alarms ; it left
the world broke. Throughout these years of ceaseless
war-howling it has been economically impossible to
get going anything like the scrap the sensationalists
seem to desire.
Also, despite the shrieking for it, nobody except
the sensationalists has shown any sign of wanting
such a war. A fair lot of the generation that suffered
the last one is still about, and until it dies out the
chances of getting a real war going should remain
slight. In every country the solid bulk of the people
is set stubbornly against war. If this were not so, if
one-tenth of what is published and spoken about each
of them were true, they would have been at each
other’s throats long ago, even if they had had to do it
with bare claws.
If it is to be an excuse for a still heavier barrage
of these alarms and shriekings, the sooner Armistice
Day fades off the calendar the better. It could profit-
ably be replaced by serious general and individual
effort to learn something real about the other fellow
instead of swallowing the doses of distortion and
misrepresentation that will be handed out so long
as people remain gullible enough to take the stuff at
a dose. That would be something like an
armistice.
It is too much to hope for, perhaps. It would
mean muffling all the alarmists for the day. But if
this could be accomplished the ordinary man would
have at least that slight respite to get his own brain
functioning and do a bit of thinking for himself, not
overlooking that human beings in the bulk everywhere
are very much what he is, and no more eager to
kill him than he is to kill them.
SIGNALLER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Roosevelt's Triumph.
Mr. Roosevelt has been re-elected with the greatest
majorities ever given to a President seeking a second
term. He carried 46 of the 48 States, and, although
his party’s Congressional victories were not quite so
sweeping, it will again be in control of the House of
Representatives and the Senate. Never has the
Republican party fallen so low.
The world is rushing the winner with congratu-
lations, which in some cases appear to be anything
but sincere. He is obviously a man of great personal
charm ; and not only Americans have been drawn
to him by his conquest of one of the most fearful
maladies to which human flesh is heir. World states-
man? That he has yet to prove himself, though the
American electors are obviously convinced that he is
the man for the United States and for the time.
Some of the Roosevelt expedients seem strange
to Australians. Ploughing-up crops and killing live-
stock for Government cheques to create an artificial
shortage would never be resorted to in this country,
which is never free from the fear of drought; but
it was pursued by the Roosevelt Government for
years. And when it was arrested by a Supreme Court
decision, the payments were continued, only this time
they were called grants for the prevention of soil-
erosion, or something of the kind. ‘
Apparently Mr. Roosevelt would have had the
people behind him if he had set out to bridle the
political power of the Supreme Court. This was no
part of his election programme, but it doesn’t follow
that he will leave the Supreme Court alone during
the next four years.
Very obviously, his immense distribution of public
money on “projects” helped him with an electorate
unused to such expenditure, and his social-security
policy helped him still more. Rich Republicans very
unwisely made the social-security plan the chief target
for their attacks. It looked mean ; and the electors
decided that it was mean. Evidently a generation
that has lived through the Great War and the depres-
sion places social security first on the list of boons
to be derived from the exercise of popular franchises.
The lesson is not likely to be lost on parties in the
countries this side of the Pacific.
A Loan in the Offing.
The Loan Council will be on the market again any
day now —this time for £7,500,000 at an effective
interest cost of £3 19s. sd. per cent. Its application
for more funds has been an event twice a year since
November, 1932—always a little before the winter and
summer solstices. The equinoctial periods apparently
are not considered favorable to public borrowing,
though there is no obvious reason why they should
be less favorable than the times picked over the past
two years.
From the end of 1932 to the end of 1934 borrow-
ing became progressively cheaper. In November of
the latter year a loan yielding £3 os. sd. per cent, was
floated. Last June the rate was up to £3 17s. sd.
per cent., and next time it is to be 2s. per cent higher.
People grow less and less inclined to provide State
Governments with the wherewithal for competing
with private enterprise, and for constructing works
that fail to earn interest. Hence Treasury operations
on the investment market that precede flotations,
the idea being to make the rate offered look attractive
compared with the return from existing issues.
All recent loans have gone below their issue price.
The June, 1936, float, put out at and carrying
3f p.c., is at present around £97 10s. when accrued
interest is taken into account. A proportion of the
last few loans has invariably been left on the under-
writers’ hands, and though the Loan Council pressed
for a lower rate, the Commonwealth Bank Board was
not prepared to underwrite the latest one at lower
than £3 19s. sd. per cent.
An Olive Branch from Washington.
Historians will marvel at the performances of the
Lyons Government in the domain of foreign politics.
At one and the same time this Government
engaged in “sanctions” against Italy, in trade disputes
with Japan and the United States and in a High Court
action against the Friends of the Soviet, designed to
make Russian propaganda unlawful. The Prime
Minister rounded off these proceedings by blandly
explaining that Australia, under the direction of his
Government and Governments like his, had so skittled
its defences that it virtually had none left—“no
defences at all.”
“Sanctions” collapsed, and trade with Italy has
been resumed. It now seems likely that the Empire’s
old friendship with Italy will be restored; allowing
for expressions in which leaders of “totalitarian”
States have to indulge, that is patently the object of
Mussolini’s speech at Milan. Circumstances are
apparently forcing a settlement of the quarrel with
Japan. Now Washington, in a very frank communi-
cation to Canberra, has expressed a desire for an
accommodation that will make the Governments
concerned as friendly as the two peoples have always
been.
In an attempt to divert business to British manu-
facturers whose capacity to handle it is at least doubt-
ful, and whose benevolent leader, Lord Nuffield, has
demonstrated that he is making more money than he
knows what to do with, very clumsy restrictions
were placed on imports of motor vehicles and parts
from Canada and U.S.A. There are no restrictions
whatever on motor vehicles or parts from the United
Kingdom.
U.S.A. and Canadian imports for the twelvemonth
to April 30, 1937, were rationed on the basis of
number of units imported during the twelvemonth to
April 30, 1936. Imports of equipment customarily
brought with chassis (floorboards, fenders, spark plugs,
storage batteries, springs, windscreen wipers, bumper
bars, shock-absorbers and so on) were prohibited
except by Ministerial license, and permits to import
makes of chassis were based on the previous year’s
imports by those particular makers, a possible effect
being that if a new model suddenly came into favor
in the U.S.A. Australians might not be permitted to
buy it.
The fiat went forth that while motor importers’
business might, by gracious permission of the Minister,
be maintained on the level of the preceding twelve-
month’s business no increase would be allowed. At
the same time, duties on Canadian and U.S.A. chassis
were altered from an ad val. to a weight basis.
Imports of unassembled chassis for three months
to the end pf July were: U.K., 3073, valued at
£303,225 (3304, valued at £337,461, were the figures
for the corresponding period of 1935); Canada, 7439,
valued at £398,237 (4504 and £242,522); U.S.A.,
10,110, valued at £762,755 (6027 and £469,368). In
effect, there has been no diversion of business to the
U.K., but North American cars have been made
dearer.
The Australian Government is indebted to Wash-
ington for the Hoover moratorium, without which
and the British reaction to it, it would not have had
the surpluses with which it has been showered. It im-
posed its heavy-handed restrictions just when Ameri-
cans were buying Australian goods briskly. Australia
has gained nothing, and can gain nothing, by quarrel-
ling with friendly neighbors ; and the whole “trade-
diversion policy” should be reconsidered.
The Law in Queensland.
Queensland has 1331 policemen and 999 ways of
falling foul of them. During the year to June 30 31,909
persons—roughly, one in every 30 people of all ages—
were before its Courts. Of this total 8383 persons—
-800 more than in the previous year—were up for
drunkenness. It seems a large number, even in a
thirsty country with very open bars.
In 1925-26 (population, 882,000) 34 Supreme
Court and 568 police-court convictions resulted from
C. 1.8. action. In 1935-36 (population, 970,000)
Supreme Court convictions in C. 1.8. cases totalled 52,
police-court convictions 1468. Total convictions for
all police offences rose from 24,764 in 1934-35 to
28,266 last year—an increase of 12.7 p.c. Two dis-
tricts, Toowoomba and Cairns, showed decreases.
The bulk of the 31,909 who came before the
Courts were there for breaches of regulations or of
laws from which Government officers are exempted.
For example, 874 were prosecuted for breaches of the
gambling laws. Another 6292 were carpeted for
breaking railway laws —about one to every mile of
line open—and 6777 for breaking traffic laws.
The totals are not large compared with N. S.
Wales, where there were 134,900 before the Courts
in 1934-35 —last year’s figures are not out yet—-of
whom 64,343 were up for “breaches of Acts generally.”
But increase in more serious forms of crime in Queens-
land resulted in 37 p.c. more arrests by the C. 1.8. in
1935-36 than in 1934-35.
The Commissioner reports that “the influx of
criminals from the Southern States still continues, and
has been responsible for a large number of offences.”
No doubt. Dangerous criminals will always go to a
State in which, as the Kopit case demonstrated —Kopit
.killed two sleeping passengers in a Government train
and disabled the conductor for life—their necks will
be safe whatever they may do.
An Invitation to Slutsky.
The Miners’ Federation is inviting one Slutsky,
described as secretary to the Miners’ International
Communist Committee in Moscow, to visit Australia
as the guest of Australian miners. Of all Australian
industrial groups miners have the highest rate of
unemployment—22.l p.c. in the June quarter—but
that doesn’t seem to matter.
Mr. Slutsky may, of course, be subjected to a
test in Patagonian or Urdu at the wharf, in which
case visitor and hosts will have a chance to advertise the
Cause on an extensive scale. If allowed to land, he
will be able to tell the Australian miners something
of the delights of Stakhanovism.
It is intensified piecework. Mining is one long
competition, as shearing used to be in Australia ; a
Stakhanovite is a “ringer” of the mines, limited by
no restrictions or methods. They pay him by results,
and if, by using electrical cutting machinery and labor-
saving devices, he can cut more coal than the other
fellow, they give him a medal. The consequence is
that the Russian coalmining industry has an aristo-
cracy of employment such as exists among no other
toilers in the world.
Besides piecework wages and Soviet medals, the
aristocrats are presented by the State with cars, special
housing privileges and wireless sets. And they are
sent on trips round the U.S.S.R. as exhibits to prove
what can be earned by industry and the application
ot Taylor systems and other devices which have
always been abhorrent to Australian miners.
By all means let Mr. Slutsky land. The faces of
his Australian-miner audiences should be worth seeing
] he truthfully expounds the Russian doctrine of
labo [ and tells the unadorned facts about how the
brotherhood of man is working out in the U.S.S.R.
Industry and Air Centre?
Mr. Dunstan’s Minister of Lands was at Fishermen’s
Bend, Melbourne, when the P.M. “opened” General
Motors-Holden’s acres of £450,000 factories.
Mr. Lind said he found it hard to believe that the
property was just part of the Bend wilderness eight
months ago.
Of the £450,000 all but £lO,OOO was spent on
Australian materials and Australian labor. From its
Bend offices the company attends to a business whose
volume exceeded £10,000,000 in 1935; and of every
pound spent by Australians in the concern 15s. stays
in Australia. There are 7500 employees.
General Motors-Holden’s completed its transfer
to the Bend in eight months. No wonder this stag-
gered Mr. Lind, whose Ministry for considerably
longer than eight months refused to consider any
proposal for establishing an airport on 365 acres of
adjoining Bend wilderness.
In those eight months came another manufac-
turing move that promises to be closely allied to the
future development of Australia: the formation of
the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation for the
manufacture of Australian aeroplanes. General
Motors-Holden’s, whose Bend activities are but one
phase of its efficiency and enterprise, is one of the
huge contributory companies. The Aircraft Corpora-
tion has an eye on the Bend as a likely factory site.
Over the same period the Australian National
Airways merger has come into being, and every
Australian capital is linked by regular air services.
There is promise that the England-Australia air-mail
time will be cut again, and that the Tasman Sea will
soon be spanned by an air extension. Even Melbourne
City Council is prepared to toss £50,000 into the
development of the Bend airport, and the Common-
wealth offers £lOO,OOO as a goodwill contribution.
This is the setting in which Mr. Dunstan’s sub-
committee takes the stage to decide whether to recom-
mend the establishment of a trust for the development
and control of an airport at the Bend.
Borderersl
From another of them:
Border folk seem destined to live interesting lives. Modern
European history illustrates that fact well, and it would
be redundant to point put the strength of character acquired
by Scottish borderers in their efforts to repel English cattle
thieves.
We on the S.A.-Victorian border have had our highlights
too. True, Victorians do not steal our cattle. If they occa-
sionally lift our sheep they do it so neatly and with so little
fuss, by means of motor-trucks, that we hesitate to complain.
Time was when we had a little difficulty in the matter of
trade, or else an absconding debtor caused a local flutter
by his headlong race to the sanctuary of the. gum-trees beyond
the border fence. But with Federation we achieved freedom
of intercourse, or thought we did.
We sent our wool to Melbourne or Geelong. Trade
flowed freely with the advent of motor transport, the more
so since Adelaide denied us a southern port. But now by
some perversity the Victorians want to cut off this trade.
They don’t like our wool and skins and honey any more,
and we must not consume their beer, nor use their furniture.
Incredible it seems, and yet the Victorian Transport Board
is very definite. After December 22 next no transport licenses
will be issued to vehicles plying between Melbourne and Nara-
coorte or Mt. Gambier. The haulier must cease from hauling
and the carrier be at rest.
Some say that Section 92 will save us, but Section 92
will need saviors itself.
Like the Mallee Sands.
Victoria has sunk nearly £30,000,000 in waterworks
controlled by the State Rivers and Water Supply
Commission. According to the now-familiar practice,
the operations of this commission have been reviewed
by another —“royal,” of course. The royal commis-
sion finds the published accounts of the other “inade-
quate, obscure and unreliable.”
The accountancy nightmare is, it seems, a result
of the conditions under which the water-supply
system was first developed. Ministerial methods of
checking the commission’s undertakings and expendi-
tures have evidently been slapdash all along. On the
constructional side the water-supply commission has
a good record. Looking over the magnitude of the
works, the royal commission expresses surprise at
there having been so few serious constructional mis-
takes.
It kept on being surprised. Inadequate investi-
gation into markets and suitability of areas prior
to irrigation surprised it; it was amazed to find the
water-supply commission spending loan money on
clearing sand from channels without bothering to
inform the Government; it was staggered at the gaps
between estimates and actual cost of works. Water-
storage operations at Eildon Weir, Waranga, Coliban,
Bacchus Marsh, Rodney, Maffra and Bellarine were
expected to cost £3,036,000. They will actually cost
£7,035,000.
Not even annual costs of water distribution,
maintenance and management have been correctly
estimated. For 1936-37 the estimate is £330,000. The
royal commission states that £426,871 will be neces-
sary. And in some districts capital debits have been
overstated; in others, operating costs have been
understated. For instance, less than 17 per cent, of
the cost of the Maffra-Sale works has been charged
against that Gippsland district.
The royal commission advises the Dunstan
Government to appoint a full-time water-commission
chairman, with business, financial and administrative
experience, for a term of seven years. Doubtless the
Government will attend to the recommendation when
it has time. At present it is busy “writing off”
£30,000,000 of capital expenditure on the Government
railways, and it expects that great results will flow
from this operation, though interest on the £30,000,000
remains and will have to be paid.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Sach”: If I had wanted a racing tip,
which I didn’t, Wotan might have come
into my head. In August, 1914, I typed
out a list of steamers in Australian ports
which had been captured from Ger-
many. Newcastle (N.S.W.) supplied
three; one was the German tramp
Wotan (3834 tons). Later she was re-
christened Talawa, and carried cargo dur-
ing the war years. After the war ended
and shipping boomed for a while she was
taken over by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment line. When the boom broke
and cargo became scarce, the Wotan
became one of the many to block up
Rose Bay (Sydney). The Bruce-Page
Government arrived, with even less
knowledge of shipping values than its
predecessors, and astute buyers made
some rare bargains. Ships that cost £4O
per ton to build went for £3, for which
figure Japan bought the old Wotan.
* * * *
“Shep”: In the hotel lounge where
we heard the Cup broadcast, a corpu-
lent reveller had been going strong
hours before. He had put a fiver on
Talking when it was at 10’s, and he
was so confident the cash was as good
as in his pocket that' he had repeatedly
insisted on shouting for all hands. His
joviality died quickly as the favorite was
downed; then a friend sidled up to
him and asked, “What was it you drew
in the sweep?” “Never looked,” grunted
the fat one, “when they said it was a
hairy goat; I was talkin’ about Talkin’ so
much I just' stuck it in me pocket.” Two
of them searched through his pockets,
straightened out a crumpled slip, gazed
in astonishment a moment, and then the
whoopees were louder than before.
“They’re on me again,” shouted the fat
one as he struggled to the bar. “Wotan's
worth over twenty quid to me!”
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: If N.S.W. cops are as
serious about cleaning up s.p. betting as
would seem to be indicated by their
recent bag of 1080 bettors, with £8829 in
fines, in three months, they’ll do their
hunting at some queer addresses before
they’re through. My small boy is official
runner for his school, his job to sprint
to the barber’s shop and bring the
results back to the h.m. on mid-week
race days. What I should like to have
known in time is what the head was on
the afternoon he enthusiastically en-
dorsed the nipper’s progress report:
“Shows Extraordinary Improvement.”
* * * *
“Top Rail”: In this North Coast
(N.S.W.) town we are putting in public
swimming baths at a stiff cost. A fine,
clean, shark-free river flows right through
the town without ever tempting a soli-
tary bather. When the baths are fin-
ished it will be this river’s water that will
be pumped into them; but the local
Bumbles, doubtless sound on psychology,
reckon on the baths being annually
crowded from November to March, the
pulling force pure herd instinct. Quaintly,
the abos. and part-abos., still fairly thick
hereabouts, will be excluded even more
rigidly than they are from the pubs.
They’ll have to be content with the
clean, fresh river, while their civilised
superiors shriek, jostle and guzzle in each
other’s diluted sweat, etc.
* * * *
“Quaeritur”: The influence of the
American talkies! I was one of the
supervisors at a Sydney suburban school
during the recent primary final examina-
tions, and found that four of the pupils,
in answering the question “Who was the
Little Corporal?” had written in perfect
good faith “Shirley Temple.”
* * * *
“Mako”: Maoriland can enter the
queer flotsam argument with a collec-
tion of Old Masters. Some years ago
the ship carrying one of the exhibition
collections periodically taken to the
Dominion by an artist-collector was
wrecked on the south coast. Many valu-
able pictures were lost, but a surprising
number were washed ashore and success-
“Hey, Admiral, tell 'em to let me know before they start gunnery practice!”
fully reconditioned. Sharp look-out for
the works of art was kept for miles
along the beach, and fishermen, not
knowing whether they had hooked a
snapper or a Corot, a conger-eel or a
Turner, pulled in their lines with added
zest. Pedestrians also walked circum-
spectly in case they trod heavily on a
Reynolds or a Gainsborough, and dug
furiously if there was any suggestion of
gold paint on the sand. Despite the
finds, the loss was disastrous.
“Jetsam”: Flotsam, is it? A few years
ago a party of three was landed by the
survey ship Moresby to do a bit of tide-
pole reading on an island. A barrel of
beer came bobbing over the waves and
was deposited at the front door of their
camp. One of the party was a tee-
totaller ; the other two weren’t. The
tide-pole had to be read every half-hour
or so, with ten-minute intervals at dead
water. The beer had to be frequently
tapped lest it go bad. So it came
that the abstainer had to do the work of
three men while the brew lasted. When
it was finished it was a toss-up which
had the worst head—the fellow who kept
the tide-pole and was suffering from lack
of sleep, or the others, who were suffer-
ing a different sort of recovery.
* * * *
“L.W.”: Mishaps to the clothing of
lady entertainers are not always acciden-
tal. At Pago Pago, in the Samoan
Islands, tourists are entertained by native
girls who do their simple dances to the
monotonous beating of hands, after
which they pass round a tin plate for
contributions. A palm-leaf round the
breasts and a strip of cloth round the
waist constitute the costume. But at
almost every performance the waist-
encircling cloth of at least one brown
dancer carries away and she has to re-
trieve it. Sympathy for her shy embar-
rassment as she passes round the plate
always brings in a few extra shillings.
* * * *
“Bull Bull”: All this talk about
cricket barracking leaves me cold. After
all, the badinage indulged in by the Hill-
ites is not to be compared with the
amenities hurled around at any stadium.
I remember once attending a benefit for
a boxer who was retiring. The referee
turned up in a brand-new evening suit.
When he stepped into the ring and turned
to address the audience, there was a
burst of applause, followed by a voice
from the bleachers: “It fits you fine,
Bill. Why don’t you buy it ?”
* * * *
“C. Mac.”: Those city people who
always set up a wail about Australians
being misrepresented, libelled and what-
not by “Steele Rudd”-ish sorts of books
and movies are a good deal more sensi-
tive on the matter than the bush-dwellers
who would seem to have most cause for
complaint. On a recent return to the
bush I found “Steele Rudd” still holding
place easily as the best-known and most
popular of all Australian authors, and
the only one who is, together with his
characters, taking the shape of a fixed
tradition. Even the bushman’s equiva-
lent for Mae West, Audrey and suchlike
private-circulation stories more often than
not concern Dave returning home from
the city with a lady’s bicycle, what hap-
pened to Dad at the sideshow, and so
forth. “Steele Rudd” must be one of
the few authors on record to have sup-
plied characters for that particular pur-
pose. I found no traces whatever of any
impression left by Henry Lawson. Liv-
ing writers were in the paradoxical state
of being extremely dead.
* * * *
“Macann”: Apart from Miles Frank-
lin’s enthusiastic depiction the sinceresl
compliment to Australia that I’ve so far
heard came from a young Dutch jour-
nalist who landed here a few months
ago. Representing a paper in his own
country he had been to most parts of
the world, and this was his last landing
before returning. After a few weeks
here he tossed in his job and decided
that Australia would do him for keeps.
He said it' was the only country in the
world where he had found anything like
“genuine peace of mind.” Australia
gains on the deal ; he’s one of the finest
specimens of combined brains and brawn
I ve ever come across.
* * * *
“E.C.F.”: “To Mr. and Mrs. Romney
two sons, one daughter. Both well.
For inserting this advertisement in a
provincial paper a M.L. maternity nurse
was prosecuted and fined 10s. It was a
joke, she explained to the Court, and
no harm was intended; she merely
wished to record the birth of triplets to
a favorite sheep.
He * * *
“Orcadian”: A remote link with the
Bounty mutiny disappeared a few weeks
ago when the house in which Midship-
man Stewart was born was burnt down
at Stromness in the Orkney Islands.
Stewart was one of those arrested at
Tahiti by Captain Edwards of the
frigate Pandora, whose job was to bring
the mutineers back to England for trial.
A recent film shows Stewart conspicu-
ously, but not his devoted native wife,
who swam to the ship every day to see her
ironed husband, occasionally bringing
their baby. She died two days after the
Pandora left Tahiti for England. Stewart
did not last much longer ; he was among
those who were drowned when the Pan-
dora was wrecked in Torres Strait. Had
he reached England, being classed as an
officer, he would certainly have been
hanged at the yardarm, along with some
of his shipmates.
“Dumbo”: Radio announcers appa-
rently spend so much time and care mas-
tering names of foreign composers and
symphonies that they can’t recognise
words which might have been foreign
once but are now plain English. In a
recent broadcast of Spanish war news I
heard “ongvoy” made out of “envoy,”
and “hoonta” out of “junta.” Diction-
aries are unanimous that both are pro-
nounced as spelt. And, since the radio
came in, I have heard more than one
woman referring to lingerie as “long-
jeray.”
s|: * * *
“Mak”: Ginger for pluck! An auburn-
tressed girl, living with her sister in the
old family home in a Melbourne suburb,
returned from the city earlier than usual
and a reflection in the hall mirror showed
a man scrambling under the bed in an
opposite room. It was her bedroom, and
without a moment’s thought she marched
in, and found two men stowing her
clothes into a bag. She raged so effec-
tively that they seemed glad to get away
empty-handed, but at the door one of
them shoved his hand into his coat
pocket and told her to “stick ’em up.’
She straightened all of her 4ft. 1 lin. and
snapped: “Don’t' be so ridiculous. Get
out!” And they got. After ’phoning the
nearest police station, she rang up a
friend. “I have had old-maidhood thrust
upon me,” she said gaily 1 , “I found a
man underneath my bed!”
* * * *
“Spare Lysistrata” : “D.E.’s” strictures
on women’s attire (B. 28 /10 / ’36) merely
emphasise the incurable smugness of the
male. A woman expresses her person-
ality in her clothes. Slave to fashion she
may be, but each woman can give each
fashion an individual twist. Men meekly
dress as their tailors dictate and show
as much individuality as so many pen-
guins. Not until it is worn out does an
article of male attire begin to express the
personality of the wearer.
“M.R.P.” The craze of women for
having their photographs taken would
matter less if they were under fewer
illusions of being like Joan Crawford
I was recently caught in the crush at a
commercial photographer’s; he had a
vertised for “attractive young ladies as
models ” A very small percentage of
the applicants could honestly have been
called “attractive,” and not a few were
hardly “young” either.; whenever one
was picked out from time to time for
“first take” there was no lack of tren-
chant criticism as to her demerits,
cameraman’s verdict was that only
or two of the bunch were subjects w
handling, and that most of those who
were even passably pretty had faces that
“meant nothing.”
A TALE OF CROOK TWOEYS.
“Adjustment in respect of spurious coins—
£sl 4s. Gd.” —From the annual report of a State
lottery concern.
Base florins, notes adroitly counterfeited,
Bobs that our barmaids scan with deep’ning
doubt,
Dud coins that any Mint might be acquitted
On expert evidence of turning out —
There’s still, it must be gloomily admitted,
A devil of a lot of them about.
And, naturally, of this bogus “jack”
The Lottery’s bound to get its little whack.
Some worthy folk cherish a firm conviction
Money that comes from gambling bears a
taint,
Even to succor people in affliction,
Even when hospitals make no complaint.
1 offer no assent or contradiction;
It may, perhaps, be so; again, it mayn’t.
But anyhow it seems as clear as gin
Some really tainted money trickles in.
For ev’ry “wrong ’un” in the game of cricket
That gains its goal and sees a batsman go
Disconsolately from a shattered wicket
There’s fifty blocked or patted back, you
know,
Or slammed to leg, and (take my tip and ticket)
The ratio’s bigger with deceptive “dough.”
If fifty pounds in stumers got inside,
Just estimate how many vainly tried.
The mildest-mannered man it narks and gravels
To find a bad two-shillings in his purse.
Some write it off as loss, sans useless cavils,
While others (which presumably is worse)
Start the darned thing once more upon its
travels
“Dowered with an oath and strangered with
a curse.”
But things that might appeal to me or you
A sweep-boss obviously couldn’t do.
It raises mild conjectures, how they settle
The question of who feels the stab and sting
That’s been inflicted by a human nettle —
The State or some too-trustful underling?
But lastly, I suppose, they melt the metal
And sell it for whatever it will bring.
Now marble-churning as an art it joins:
“Adjustment in respect of spurious coins!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Oxmead”: These doleful wails about
airmen (and airwomen) being inade-
quately remunerated for their stunts
are surely overdone. Consider, for in-
stance, what Mollison, the husband of
Amy Johnson, told a London paper after
his latest arrival in its front page: : —
I earned £3200 crossing the Atlantic ; if
I reach the Cape 1 will receive further gifts
and bonuses. Yet things are not so good
as in 1932, when I earned £19,000 in one
year, chiefly by two flights. It is a grand
life.
And ’32 was in the middle of the depres-
sion years. Still, I suppose Mollison is
a bit out of the ordinary among ocean-
spanners. On his own statement he took
a bottle of brandy with him when he
left Newfoundland, eastward-bound, and
regretted later that he hadn’t equipped
himself with two.
X * * *
“Kerys”: A city firm was having
trouble in collecting an outstanding ac-
count from a suburban shopkeeper, and
after writing a series of progressively
threatening letters it sent its repre-
sentative along for a personal interview.
“It’s all right, old man,” said the shop-
keeper cheerfully. “I’ll be able to pay
your account in full very soon. And I
want to thank you for those splendid
letters you wrote me. I copied ’em and
sent ’em out to all my troublesome cus-
tomers, and they’re paying up a treat.”
* * * *
“Kellick”: We were receiving instruc-
tions on the art of throwing Mills bombs.
Our officer demonstrated several times
with a dummy, all the while stressing the
need to avoid panic. Then came the real
thing. Taking up his stance, he with-
drew the pin, prepared for a mighty
throw and—slipped. He told us after-
wards that his first words after he had
cleared his ears and mouth were, “Any-
one hurt, men?” We didn’t hear him ;
we were too far away.
* x X X
“Amity”: Years ago a woman divorced
her husband, who promptly married the
other woman. The first wife was subse-
quently ill in a Melbourne hospital, where
she was visited by a woman supposed to
belong to one of the societies that in-
clude hospital visiting in their charitable
work. Books, expensive foods and
flowers were showered on the patient,
and the giver came to see her almost
every day. When the recipient of all
this asked for her account on leaving
she was informed that it was paid in full.
It was not until the other day that she
discovered it was the “other woman”
who, under a fictitious name, had thus
salved her conscience.
* * * X
“Sach”: How many know what a
wonderful harbor Albany (W.A.) has?
John Forrest was the first to deal it a
crippling blow when he diverted the mail
steamers to Fremantle, but it regained
some of its old activity in 1914 when
transports from M.L. and Australia
looked in and moved off from there.
Even after the war it remained a fairly
busy port, with steamers from South
Africa calling, but since the Navigation
Act it has slipped again and now sees
only a ship or two a month. About a
dozen years ago it was in the running
as a possible naval base, but again it's
luck seems to have been out.
“Centurion”: Cabled accounts of the
assassination of Gaafar Pasha, com-
mander-in-chief of the Iraq forces, all
state he was G.O.C. the forces of the
Senussi when that sanctified race decided
to take on the might of Britain by in-
vading Western Egypt at the end of
1916. Gaafar’s job in that argument was
“This place makes me sick! Every year you see the same old faces"
O.C. artillery; the G.O.C. was Nuri
Pasha, who later became Foreign
Minister of Iraq and only escaped his
old mate’s fate in the recent upheaval by
a quick hop to Cairo. Another pasha,
Musa, was O.C. cavalry, and there were
some 20 or 30 other Turks acting as staff-
officers to the Senussi forces. Some had
been on the job from the time Italy
invaded Tripoli. Nuri and Gaafar were
latecomers landed by German submarine
after Turkey threw in her lot with Fritz.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A.’s liquor bill for the past
year is officially announced at over two
millions in cash, working out at £3 14s.
7d. a head. It is, as usual, a direct reflec-
tion of good —or other —times, having
risen from the cautious £3 Is. 6d. of
1931-32, but being nowhere near the
reckless £5 7s. Id. of the boom-time of
“How many are you going to drown, Mum?"
1926-27. Every citizen —on the average,
that is—managed nearly eight gallons of
beer, the total being 4 \ millions; and
only a small fraction of it was imported.
Spirits showed a decrease, and even of
these 65 p.c. was Australian-made.
“Caesar’s Household”: Another point
in which the movies go wrong about the
Foreign Legion (B. 4/11/ ’36) is in
representing the Legionaries generally as
hard-bitten sinners. In a church maga-
zine the other day I found an article
written by one who, from his own ex-
perience, deposed that quite a number
of men in the. Legion are not ashamed
to kneel down in a barrack-room full of
soldiers and say their prayers morning
and night. Further, many of these men
go to church, although there is no pro-
vision at all in the French Army for
church parades, and there are no padres.
X X X X
“King’s Inns”: In pre-war days few
travellers had ever seen a passport.
Russia and Turkey were the only Euro-
pean countries which insisted on such
proofs of identity from foreign visitors ;
people who wanted to try their luck in
new lands just paid their passage and
went there. Now there is not a single
country in the world into which you can
gain admittance without a passport, and
natives of such countries as Russia, Ger-
many and Italy find it exceedingly diffi-
cult to get out of their own land.
“Garboard Strake”: According to
“Sach” (B. 28/10/’36) marine engineers
have to learn navigation and can take
the bridge if necessary, whereas masters
or mates cannot go into the engine-room.
As one who has spent many years pacing
the bridge I have never had the desire or
the occasion to go into the engine-room,
and I shouldn’t know what to do if I
were there. But that an engineer can
“take the bridge” is certainly news to
me. The Board of Trade, which con-
trols examinations for masters, mates
and engineers, includes nothing apper-
taining to navigation in the syllabus for
the last; on the other hand, the recently
revised syllabus for the examination for
mates and masters contains a great deal
concerning engines and engineering. But
mostly it is a case of each to his own
business, best illustrated by the yarn
concerning the captain who took over
the engine-room while the chief engineer
took charge on the, bridge. The captain’s
subsequent complaint that the engines
wouldn’t go was met with the assurance
of the chief engineer that this was of no
consequence, since the ship was already
ashore.
“Lex”: The British sovereign could
marry without the consent of Parliament
(B. 4/11/’36). The King merely notifies
his Legislature as a matter of courtesy,
and the only way in which it could
register disapproval would be to refuse
to vote a grant for the maintenance of
the queen. Nor is it a fact that the
Anglican Church does not recognise
divorce. It does.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The map which swayed a
Westralian election was doubtless genuine
(B. 4/11/ ’36), but the most unblush-
ing fake of the kind was the notorious
“gridiron map” with which the Griffith
interests smashed Tom Mellwraith’s
long-sighted scheme of a railway running
north from Charleville in Queensland to
a port on the Gulf of Carpentaria. This
was to be built on the lines of the
Canadian Pacific, which has made
Western Canada what it is to-day, alter-
nate blocks of land running a few miles
out from the rail on each side being
earmarked as payment to the co. build-
ing the line. On the “gridiron map”
broad black bars ran at right angles across
Queensland to the proposed north-south
line from the N.S.W. border to the tip
of Cape York, and from the N.T.
boundary to the sea. In a correct map
of the same size, the proposed grants to
the company would not have been visible
to the naked eye, and anyhow the grants
only began at Charleville and stopped at
Gulf waters. To the general public,
ignorant of maps and scales, the impu-
dent fake, with its bars blotting out two-
thirds of the entire State, had an instant
appeal, and the scheme, which would have
made Queensland one of the most pros-
perous and closely-settled States in Aus-
tralia, was thrown out with its sponsors
at the next election.
X X X *
“Section 47”: As on who was in
charge of a country telej :r.k office for
over four years I suggest 1 the oath of
secrecy is quite unnecess . Knowing
everyone intimately who did business at
my counter, I could tell the inner mean-
ings (if any) of their telegrams, but' they
seldom held the faintest interest for me.
Of all the wires I handled, I remember
only two —the rest faded from my mind
as soon as I had done with them. And
the only reason I recall the two excep-
tions was that the missus and I were hav-
ing a bit of domestic trouble, which
looked as if it might mean the parting of
our ways. Just at that time a sweet young
thing wired a fellow I knew. Of all the
sickly sentiment I’ve ever seen on paper
that wire took the bun. His reply gave
me a toothache. I couldn’t help com-
paring their bliss with my own bit of
trouble. That’s why I remember, out of
thousands of telegrams, those two only.
THE BURNING QUESTION.
“The Surf Lifesaving Association is leading a
vigorous campaign against the S'pooner regulation
which forbids the wearing of shorts by bathers on
public beaches.”
In Yankeeland Roosevelt, ev’ryone knows,
Has hewed hip and thigh his Republican foes.
Mussolini and Hitler, with fee-fi-fo-fum,
Are rattling the sabre and banging the drum.
Unfortunate Spain is aflame and a-flood
With cities in ruins and rivers of blood.
But a topic more burning and nearer at hand
Is daily discussed in the surf and the sand;
It beats all the others at seaside resorts,
Why chaps shouldn’t bathe on our beaches in
shorts.
There’s a number of people who can’t under-
stand
Why a lady who wasn’t permitted to land
On our shores should be met with the sweetest
of smiles
And the gladdest of hands in the Shivery Isles.
The Cup’s hardly over, and some haven’t done
Deploring their miss of that hundred-to-one.
But these things, after all, are but trivial affairs,
Mere seven-day wonders which no one com-
pares
With the riddle, so fruitful of sneers and of
snorts,
Why fellows mayn’t bathe on our beaches in
shorts.
Soon Allen and co. will be seen in the Tests,
And feeling run high in the barrackers’ breasts;
And there may be a thrill for political souls
When Lyons and his cobbers appeal to the
polls.
But where sand-sheiks and surf-queens are
lounging arow
It's Spooner who’s more in the picture than
Joe.
As a ruthless dictator, unbending and grim,
They'll tell you that Musso. has nothing on him.
It’s a grievance that jars on all ranks and all
sorts,
Why blokes shouldn't lounge on our beaches
in shorts.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


20M'6
10 for 9
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.j
¥
111
ŵ
POLITICAL POINTS
If Lyons and a few others have their
way, there will be two Commonwealth
elections next year. An election for the.
House of Representatives, with the mar-
keting referendum, in February or
March and an election for the Senate,
with possibly another referendum, later
on. It would mean a wicked waste of
public money, and it would greatly dis-
turb business, which has had drought
added to its other worries. But Lyons’s
notion is that it would enable the Minis-
terial parties to snatch an advantage,
and nothing else is held to matter.
The Commonwealth Government is
granting £15,000 this year to a concern
called the National Travel Association,
which operates in a field worked by
shipping cos. and costly Government
Tourist Bureaux. How much return Aus-
tralia will get for its £15,000 now that
Minister Paterson has taken it upon him-
self to exclude a travelling English-
woman because of a love affair is prob-
lematical. Lots of tourists have love
affairs, and the world has lots of other
countries where impassioned trippers are
never Patersoned.
More bus services are to be “taken
over” by the Sydney Government —“with
compensation” this time. The “compen-
sation” pans out at purchase of vehicles
and equipment at “existing” (i.e., second-
hand) “value, plus either 10 p.c. or 25
p.c.” Probably the Transport Commis-
sion will judge “existing value” and de-
cide whether 10 p.c. or 25 p.c. shall be
added. In Lang’s time there were no
Government buses ; but this is an anti-
socialist Government.
Roosevelt is the second post-Civil-War
Democratic President to gain re-election
straightway (Cleveland had two terms,
but the Republican Harrison interrupted
them, 1889-1893). The other was Wilson,
who got in again on the cry “He kept
us out of the war.” Within six months
he had broken off relations with Ger-
many.
One good result of the Presidential
election was the obliteration of the
“Social Justice” crowd. Father Cough-
lin and Dr. Townsend of the £4O-a-month
pensions and’remnants of the late Hughie
Long’s “Soak the Rich” mob combined
to support the candidacy of one Lemke
on a vague programme based on giving
everybody large quantities of something
for nothing. Some Republicans flattered
the combination, hoping to draw votes
from Roosevelt. Evidently their patron-
age of it harmed their own man Landon.
The Reds have been celebrating an-
other anniversary of the Glorious Revolu-
tion ; but it was a gloomy week for them.
It saw Caballero bolt from doomed
Madrid and Browder poll a whole 57,000
votes for the U.S. Presidency.
State politicians who have been look-
ing forward to a glorious deadhead trip
to the Coronation are now a prey to
moody anxieties. Dunstan was invited
months ago, but no other invitations
have come tq hand, and front-benchers
can’t understand it. A dreadful impres-
sion is growing that the Dominions Office
has been taking notes of recent political
pilgrimages and is reserving free tickets
for Premiers who haven’t had trips to
London.
“Demand your national dividend! ”
was ‘ e catch-cry of the Douglas Credit
people in Alberta, as it is in Australia;
and since Mr. Have-a-heart became
Premier he has done his best to oblige.
He has issued a local imitation of the
“national dividend” and cut bond interest
to 3 p.c. Now bonds amounting to
$1,250,000 have fallen due, and his
Government being broke and unable to
borrow, Mr. Have-a-heart has defaulted.
The bowelless bondholders wouldn’t take
“national dividends” in full settlement.
N.S.W. taxpayers would be interested
to know how much loan- and lax-
money has been tipped into “Olympic
swimming pools.” Every semi-insolvent
suburb seems to have one, and they were
all excavated, concreted and equipped
with costly piping systems and buildings
when Australia was assured by the
flapper press that its swimmers were
bound to carry all before them in Berlin.
In the same hang-the-expfense spirit, the
Government promised the Sydney Sports
Ground Trust the wherewithal for an
electric-lighting outfit so that some show-
man or other could stage a bruising
match. The Auditor-General notes that
a “grant of £5OOO was approved for this
purpose,” and that £3509 had been spent
to June 30. The fight didn’t come off.
Boots, the English chain-store chemists,
have been cold-shouldered in Maoriland
“Because of financial difficulties, Sydney’s bear farm may be transferred to Tasmania.”
“The leader of our bear garden wants to transfer to Tasmania, too. But only
for the period of a snap election.”
and Victoria, but not in N.S.W. or S.A.
The indications are that if they confer
unnecessary competition on N.S.W. and
S.A. the State Governments will “take no
action in the matter.” It may be only a
coincidence, but the leaders of those
State Governments were recently in Eng-
land, where Australian Premiers talk so
much mush about the welcome waiting
in Australia for British capital and enter-
prise. The Maoriland and Victorian
Premiers have never been to England.
Josiah Francis, M.H.R. for Moreton
(Q.), who was a Minister once, has as-
serted that “the sole purpose” of the
constitutional “amendment” to be put to
the vote is “to restore to the States and
the Commonwealth the power which we
all believed they had.” Blackburn,
M.H.R., gave him his answer:—
This power was not exercised prior to
1928, and was never thought to be pos-
sessed by the Commonwealth prior to 1920.
The Commonwealth Government itself has
never been satisfied that it was free from
Section 92.
Blackburn concluded by saying that the
decision of the Privy Council in the
James case was a result that every lawyer
in Australia expected.”
Although it was seven weeks to Christ-
mas, the ante-Christmas rush began in the
Parliaments at Canberra and Sydney last
week. Page announced that Estimates
and Appropriation Bill must be “de-
bated” within 31 hours. In Macquarie-
street on the same day a measure intro-
ducing a number of income-tax changes,
some complicated and questionable, was
shoved through the Assembly m an houx
or so. There is not a shred of excuse
for scamping the public work in this
way; but it is done towards the end of
every session, and more brazenly every
year.
T t a , r I, j i
U.A.P. newspapers gleefully recoi ded
that members who had protested against
the curtailment of debate on the Esti-
males were caught napping “when the
Treasury, Attorney-General and Interior
votes were reached.”
cuSr
departments. All were agreed to in less
than a minute.
This was held to be “a victory,” and
in a sense it was. A victory over the
principle of Parliamentary control of
the public purse.
Section 92 is virtually the oldest part
of the Constitution. The wording differs
little from a resolution adopted in Syd-
ney in 1891 by the “First National Aus-
tralasian Convention”:
That the trade and intercourse between
the federated colonies, whether by means of
land carriage or coastal navigation, shall
be absolutely free.
That resolution was drafted by Parkes
and was supported by Deakin and Gillies
(Vic.), Griffith and Mcllwraith (Q.),
Kingston and Downer (S.A.), Forrest and
Hackett (W.A.), Fysh and Douglas (Tas.),
George Grey and Atkinson (M.L.). Now
Page pronounces the thing “a mistake.”
Perhaps if Parkes, Deakin, Kingston,
Forrest, Fysh and George Grey were
alive to-day they would consider Page
a mistake.
Uncle Sam has another shipping strike
on his hands, and, perhaps because
Bridges, the leader of the Pacific Slope-
waterside workers, is an Australian, an
effort has been made to drag Australians
in. Apropos, Bridges has been fero-
ciously attacked by American newspapers
—an ordinarily sober periodical even
rummaged among medical records to find
something detrimental to him —and Uncle
Sam was urged to send him back to
Australia, But, doubtless because of the
Democrats’ disinclination to alienate
Labor votes, it has been deemed inex-
pedient.
Britain has “marketing schemes” and
boards and “home-consumption prices”
“implemented” by legislation, there being
no constitutional obstacle. They were
introduced by Elliot, the Minister of
Agriculture, and Australia’s odd friend
some results.
Mr. Elliot has been steadily losing caste
with Conservatives who do not want
marketing schemes and quotas and were
satisfied with tariffs and subsidies. The
coup de grace came when it was revealed
that there are 100,000 fewer persons em-
ployed in agriculture than when Mr.
Elliot became Minister.
So Elliot has been named Secretary for
Scotland, and Morrison, extolled by our
Mr. Menzies, becomes Minister of Agri-
culture.
The Miners’ Federation bosses have
“decided to invite Slutzky, secretary of
the Miners’ International Committee in
Moscow, to visit Australia.” Tomsky
had a prior claim. Masses of turgid
propaganda addressed to Australian trade-
unionists and signed “Tomsky” have
been distributed in this country. But
Tomsky blew his brains out' two or three
months ago when Comrade Stalin was
about to save him the trouble.
In a statement prepared for the latest
Sydney “milk investigator,” who has
been “investigating” since the beginning
of the year, J. M. Martin, a member of
the Milk Board, admits that the retail
price for the last four years, 7d. a quart,
could be reduced below 6d. if the Wel-
lington (M.L.) system of block delivery
were introduced. But this, he alleges,
would reduce “purchasing power by
£473,257 a year” ; by “purchasing power”
he means the wages drawn by carters
who could be dispensed with. Martin’s
idea is that the siege-price should be
maintained so that the carters may be
kept on. Martin was put on the board
to represent the consumers.
Says F. N. Yarwood, chairman of
directors of Permanent Trustees:
If Australia wants to get British manu-
facturers here, the best way to do it would
be to bring about one company law, one
income tax and one Stamp Duties Act.
The Bulletin heartily agrees with Mr.
Yarwood.
Stevens was told by a deputation of
farmers that the Sandy Hollow-Mary-
vale railway, which his Government has
started to construct, would cost a mil-
lion and a half and traverse country on
which nobody out of Bedlam would
settle. He replied that it was “largely a
national undertaking for defence pur-
poses,” and that the Commonwealth
Government was to be asked to foot part
of the bill. For once the Common-
wealth Government’s reply was prompt
and decisive:
The Defence Department holds that
there are many other things on which
money for defence purposes could be more
urgently spent, as such a line would lack
strategic value. Troops could be moved
by other railways in close proximity. The
request for assistance has not been com-
plied with.
Defence is none of Stevens’s business,
but he seems to have returned from his
grand tour with the belief that it is his
business to meddle in every blessed thing.


THE HUNDRED-TO-ONE CHANCE.


m
r
m
iJS
m
n
m
tm
I
-w.
o
. . . needs the finest qualities
a motor spirit can possess . . . .
needs -
SHELL
PERSONAL ITEM S
Archie Galbraith Cameron, the Federal
member for Barker (S.A.), is a rough
customer to tackle in an argument.
Speaking on the Defence Estimates he
described Frank Brennan’s contention
that a defenceless nation would not' be
attacked as “childish.” “Where were you
when the shells burst?” sneered Ward,
the East Sydney man. “About 12,000
miles from the honorable member,”
Cameron replied. He was, too. Cameron
had three years in the A.I.F. as a 27th
Battalion man, and joined the A.M.F.’s
27th Batt. after the war. He has a farm
at Loxton.
Littleton Groom, dead in Canberra last
week, made up in dependability and
decency of outlook for lack of political
brilliance. His death breaks a political
family record which it would be hard to
beat in Australia —a father and son
spanning 74 years in Parliamentary poli-
tics. His father entered Queensland Par-
liament in 1862 and survived a stormy
career to become the first M.H.R. for
Darling Downs. He died almost immedi-
ately after his election in 1901, and Little-
ton, a barrister, succeeded to the seat
and held down the job till his death, with
only two years in the wilderness (1929-
31), Arthur Morgan, scion of another
old Downs political family, having de-
feated him at the time of the Bruce-Page
debacle. From 1905 till 1926, when he
became Speaker, Groom was a member
of every non-Labor Ministry. He wrote,
with John Quick, the first book on Aus-
tralian High Court practice— The Judicial
Power of the Commonwealth. He was
given a K.C.M.G. in 1924.
Colonel LORENZO, D.S.O.
Colonel Francis Maxwell de Frayer
Lorenzo will shortly celebrate his 30th
year in the Australian permanent forces.
One of the small band of staff officers
who helped to make the A.1.F., he went
to Gallipoli as adjutant of the 10th Bat-
talion, commanded the 49th in 1916-17,
was mentioned in dispatches, won the
D.S.O. and was invalided home before
the end of the war to become A.Q.M.G.,
2nd Military District. For most of the
past decade he has been A.A. and Q.M.G.
and I.G.C. of the 11th Mixed Brigade,
Brisbane, but last year he was transferred
to a senior job in Sydney. At 56, he is
as alert and vigorous as a good many
men 15 years his junior, a good com-
panion, an excellent raconteur and an
ardent advertiser of the virtues of the
Queensland climate.
Dr. Mackerras and Dr. Riches, of the
C.5.1.R., have added all the pastoral
country in S.A. to their survey of the
blowfly problem. It varies widely, in-
cluding the dry north, the damp south-
east and Kangaroo Island ; the doctors
are working back through Victoria to
Canberra. Mackerras reports that so far
a smallish green fly seems the most
troublesome everywhere; but also that
flies are not the only problem on which
the pastoral areas badly need the help
of scientific investigators.
Thomas Church is
well qualified for the
position of State
treasurer of Toe H,
to which he was re-
cently elected—he is
N.S.W. manager of
the National Bank
of Australasia, and
has been guarding
other people’s money
for over 30 years. A
Maorilander, born
at Napier, he was
with the National in
W.A. and Victoria
before succeeding L.
J. McConnan in Syd-
ney. Toe H has
lately taken a fresh
lease of life in N. S.
Wales. New branches
are being formed
and the scope of this
war-born organisa-
tion extended. The
driving force is
Brian Billings, re-
cently sent out from
headquarters in Eng-
land.
Outstanding among
Australian women
who have won distinctions abroad is
Dame Adelaide Anderson, who, after a
brilliant Girton career, was appointed
clerk to the Royal Commission on Labor
at 29 in 1882 and H.M. Chief Lady In-
spector of Factories at 34. She has
served on many commissions on employ-
ment, and is one of the world’s authori-
ties on China’s industrial conditions. She
was made a D.B.E. in 1921.
“V.E.”: G. A. Robinson, named manag-
ing director of Airlines of Australia, which
merges all the cardinal air services cover-
ing the coast from Cairns to Adelaide,
pioneered motor transport in northern
N. S. Wales, and subsequently built up
New England Airways. Presently that
purely local service swallowed the Syd-
ney-Brisbane business of Australian
National Airways, and G.A. went to
America and Europe to study aerial
transport. He interested a big British
constructional company in Australian
services, organised the northern route on
modern lines equipped with Monospars
and later fast Stinsons, and extended the
service to Cairns.
Fred Berry, who conducts The Bulle-
tin’s “Steering Column” and who was
seriously injured in a motor accident in
Victoria on Oct. 30, is putting up a
great fight in Epworth Private Hospital,
Richmond (Vic.). He has been conscious
from the time of the accident, and he
insisted on giving detailed instructions
to those who found him as to how to
splint up his injuries and get him safely
to hospital.
Father Eris O’Brien, parish priest of
Bankstown (N.S.W.) and well-known
author, has had conferred on him by
Louvain University the degree of doctor
in political economy and social science.
He went to Louvain in 1934, and is now
collecting material for a life of Cardinal
Moran.
G. H. Sims, dead in Adelaide at 73,
worked for two banks which went broke
—the Town and Country and the Com-
mercial of S.A.—before he settled down
with the Commercial of Australia, for
which he managed Darwin, Warragul
(Vic.) and Boulder City branches; he
ended in the State Bank of S.A. He
played bowls for Westralia.
James Griffyth Fairfax, on a visit to
Australia, is the most versatile of the
Mr. Treasurer, Toe H, Sydney.
“S.M.H.” clan. He
was born in Sydney,
* but was early re-
nt ov e d from its
democratising influ-
enc e s. Winchester
and New College,
Oxford, nurtured
him —he took first-
class honors in Eng-
lish with his degree,
and was called to
the Inner Temple
Bar. He saw the
war through in Mes-
pot. as a captain in
the R.A.S.C. with
the 15th Indian Divi-
sion. Before the war
he had published a
good deal of desul-
tory prose. He in-
dulges in a wide
variety of games,
from chess to squash
racquets, nor have
his poetic leanings
prevented his be-
coming a councillor
of the British Asso-
ciated Chambers of
Commerce. He is
the only Fairfax
who belongs to that Olympus among
clubs the Athenaeum.
George Brown, of Adelaide, who
lately passed his 104th birthday, arrived
in S.A. with his wife in 1857 and took
to market gardening. He retired to Adel-
aide 40 years ago, and for 30 years was
a constant visitor to the Strangers’ Gal-
lery in the House. On his 100th birth-
day members gave him a dinner and a
photograph of Parliament House, which
every member autographed.
Robert Muir, F.R.S., comes from Glas-
gow to visit D. A. (“Taffy”) Welsh, with
whom he is a sort of professional twin.
Welsh, who married Muir’s sister, has
been professor of pathology at Sydney
University since 1902; before that he
was senior pathologist lecturer at Edin-
burgh. Muir, who held down Welsh’s
Edinburgh job for a time and, after a
term at St. Andrews, became professor
of pathology at Glasgow, is a knight and
has several textbooks to his credit. Welsh
balances his lack of the first-rank fellow-
ship and knighthood with the intriguing
nature of some, of his scientific works.
Muir has never written a work called
Hcemogregarines in Marsupials — that was
Welsh’s triumph.
Montague Burton is a Yorkshire
knight, chairman of one of the big
Leeds textile mills, who has been brought
to Australia by the wool situation. He
is well known in Yorkshire as a bene-
MONTAGUE BURTON, from Leeds.
factor of Leeds University and of a
number of charities, and as an ardent
worker for improved industrial relations.
Kabell Mockbell, dead in Sydney in
his seventies, was one of the few Turks
in Australia, and his life was an adver-
tisement for the innate industry of the
hardy race. The little brown man, who
could not write English, founded, a chain
of coffee houses in Sydney which were
unique of their kind, providing patrons
with coffee, biscuits and unlimited facili-
ties for gossip and domino-playing at
fourpence a head. Some time ago he
parted with some of his interests, but at
the height of his prosperity he was one
of the richest cafe-owners in the Com-
monwealth.
A man whom the criminal fraternity
had no reason to love has passed over
in Melbourne —Samuel Alban Harris,
who built and fitted the locks for most
of Victoria’s big gaols, including Pen-
tridge. Harris, one of the oldest lock-
smiths in the Commonwealth, served in
his youth with the 3rd Staffordshires and
fought with them in the Afghan War of
1879. He never missed an Anzac march,
and, with his grey beard and regular
marching step, he made a dignified leader
of the “Old Contemptible” section of the
procession.
“El V.’s” farewell to an Arab:
It is a wonder that Ja’far Pasha El Askeri,
whose* burly figure was known to many Aus-
tralians, should have survived long enough to
be shot down by his own people in a 1 coup
d’etat at Bagdad 18 years after the war. He
was about ,as substantial a mark as any rifle-
man could wish for; Lawrence once remarked
pensively that he would have made good cover.
I never saw a man who looked less like a
fighter; he was something the build 9!
Monash, though much enlarged by too solid
Oriental living. But he was as active as a
cat, and when I last saw him 10 years ago he
was, being then Iraq Prime Minister, about
as electric as W. M. Hpghes at his peak. He
had a distinction possessed by no other high
officer in the Great War —he was C. in C. of
forces both sides. A Turkish regular, he was
sent by Enver Pasha in a submarine to organise
the Senussi, and he gave Wallace and his
expeditionaries, who included a modicum of
Anzacs, a good deal of hurry-up in 1915.
Peyton, who succeeded Wallace, gave him a
bad doing at Agagya in February, 1915, and the
Dorsets scooped him up and lodged him in the
citadel at Cairo. An attempt to escape landed
him with a broken leg, but he got well enough
to become Feisal’s C. in C. in 1917. Ja’far was
Military Governor of Aleppo in 1919, had
been twice Iraq Prime Minister, and held the
portfolios of Defence and Foreign Affairs, and
for four years was at the Court of St. James.
He was a G.C.V.O.


'fifjiuCletCa
Christmas Cards
ARE NOW READY—
Six charming studies
by Norman Lindsay.
Six abo. studies
by B. E. Minns.
All in their original delightful
colors, and nicely mounted. The
most artistic cards on the market.
Price per single card, with
envelope, 9d. ; or in box of 6
with envelopes, 4/6, plus postage.
Only a limited number printed.
On sale at leading stationers or at
The Bulletin Offices in all States.


A home-made Will can
be a costly economy
w
It is an easy matter to save the cost
of a legally-drawn will, but such a
saving may cost an estate hundreds
of pounds in litigation. Careless
wording, ambiguity, or the slightest
deviation from legal procedure may render a will
of no effect, defeat the testator’s intentions, and
do grave injustice to beneficiaries. Ask your
solicitor to read your will and advise you without
further delay.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us,
we will be glad to discuss with you and your
solicitor, the important aspects* of practical
administration of your estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordjxe, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
P RINCIPA L CONTRA CTORS
FOR THE SUPPLY OF
ORE DRESSING EQUIPMENT
Throughout AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, NEW GUINEA & PAPUA.
The following equipment is manufactured under license in our own works:
DORR Classifiers, Agitators, Thickeners. Diaphragm Pumps, etc.; OLIVER
Continuous Drum and Disc Filters; MERRILL CRO'' lined* Pumps’
ALLEN-SHERMAN-HOFF Hydroseal “Maximix Soft Mine
WESTERN PRECIPITATION Dust Recovery Units, BLFFALO to
Ventilating Fans; NEGRETTI AND ZAMBRA Control Instruments, etc.
BY
CROSSLE & DUFF PTY., LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SYDNEY OFFICE: Crossle, Duff & Macintosh, Etd., Wmchcombe Ho , -
Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 161 P-c. 161 P-c. serves.Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 410,260 32,500 284,375 93,355 974,232
174 p.c. 174 p.c.
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1928.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930. . 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
111 P-c. 11l P-c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.035
1933.- 234,540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
♦Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
The public is interested in this big
operating concern, which now enjoys a
lion’s share of the trade in Victoria and
helps to quench part of the thirst in N.
Queensland and elsewhere as well,
through half a dozen holding cos. For
more than a decade after the merger
(in 1907) C.U.B. was busy consolidating
its position, financial and otherwise.
Then, during the post-war decade, it
added further to its stature by welding
the hotel and brewing interests of
the Geelong Brewery, the. prosperous
Melbourne Co-operative, Fitzgerald’s
(Castlemaine) and Cohn’s (Bendigo) into
the organisation. The div. shot up from
7 p.c. in 1919 to p.c. eight years
later, and remained there until slump in-
tervened, when the rate eased to 15,
11J and then to 10 p.c. Declared net
earnings shrank by nearly 50 p.c. during
the four years to the close of accounts in
1932, when they reached their lowest
point, 11.4 p.c. on capital.
There has since been a steady
lengthening of payrolls, with a conse-
quent increase in the consumption of
beer ; the value of hotel properties has
continued to rise, and there has been a
little relief from taxation. Furthermore,
while values were low, the co. widened
and anchored its turnover by the pur-
chase of hotel freeholds —their book
value advanced from £587,317 in 1930
to £689,117 at the close of last accounts.
So the board did not hesitate to scatter
975,000 bonus shares —100,000 prefs.
and 875,000 ords. —in Dec., 1934, raising
paid capital to £2,925,000 in 300,000
prefs. (they carry a cumulative 7 p.c.
and advance with the ords. beyond that
rate) and 2,625,000 ords.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was marked im-
provement in turnover. Unemployment
in Vic. dropped from 15 p.c. for the
first to 10.6 p.c. for the last quarter.
After providing for contingencies, now
less pressing than they were, the spring
in gross earnings from trading (£372,249)
was £100,247. Rents, etc. (£110,294),
turned in an extra £14,732, making the
improvement in gross earnings from all
sources (£482,543) £114,979. Manage-
ment charges, etc. (£100,890), took only
£3994 of the increase, leaving the net
result £110,985 better at 13 p.c. on capi-
tal (pref. and ord. combined) as against
9.2 p.c. for the previous term. The div.
was lifted from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c., and 10
p.c. is now equal to 15 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the gift.
Balance-sheet movements suggest all-
round expansion of business:
1924. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. £1,950,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Sundry creditors. . 168,078 271,315 316,452
Deposits .. • • 112,523 410 410
Brewery freeholds 103,393 260,925 261,739
Hotel freeholds . . 126,486 664,186 689,117
Leaseholds ..
Plant, etc. . . 271,043 339,967 348,226
Stocks and excise
stamps . . . . 201,027 229,130 254,894
Book debts, etc. .. 602,832 845,185 1,026,676
Cash, investments,
etc 119,510 672,464 595,123
To carry an extra £181,491 of book
debts, add £25,764 to stocks, £24,931 to
hotel freeholds and £8259 to plant, cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £77,341 and
the amount coming to outsiders was in-
creased by £45,137. What catches the
eye is the fine pile of more or less liquids.
When the books closed they exceeded
liabilities by £1,559,831, or £84,777 more
than at the previous balance, despite the
additions to hotel freeholds and plant.
Obviously provision for contingencies is
not being overlooked.
Here is a summary of the position of
the holding cos.:
' Shares Last Market
Paid in Div., Price
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. Scrip.
Carlton .. £816,992 928,295 12t 67/3
Melb. Co-op.. . 431,981 975,000 .19.3 55/
Castlemaine . . 225,000 176,121 8.5 29/
Foster . . 115,200 124,574 12.2 46/6
Shamrock . . 141,345 124,574 8.0 38/-
MeCracken’s .. 62,438 62,438 10.0 42/-*
* Buyer. t Interim.
The remaining 534,000 C.U.B. shares are
held by miscellaneous interests. All but
Carlton and Melbourne Co-op. have
made bonus issues to their own share-
holders.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 89,090 10 p.c. = 69,000 20,090 102,164
1927.. 104,607 lli „ „ 79,350 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10 „ ~ 69,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 96,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 51,272 5 „ „ 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ „ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 . . . . 210,457
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 ~ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
♦Half-year.
During the last term the units in the
A.K.M.-Yarra Falls textile group de-
cided to pursue a policy of isolation in
place of one of entangling alliances. So
there was a shaking-out of interlocking
share interests. A.K.M. distributed
308,000 f.-p. Yarra shares (all but a
fraction of its holding) among those on
its own register at par. Yarra Falls sold
its holding of 50,000 f.-p. £1 A.K.M.
shares to those on its own register, one
for 18, at par. It also sold the 30,500
f.-p. £1 shares it held in Julius Kayser
(Aus.) to Julius Kayser Inc., New York,
at par. What div., if any, the Kayser
co. paid is not disclosed ; A.K.M. paid
7 p.c. p.a. for the last two years. So
Yarra Falls hasn’t lost' anything worth
worrying about in the form of income
by sale of these holdings. The money
from the sale, and more besides, went
mainly into stocks (up £86,587), debtors’
balances (up £13,400) and advances, etc.
(up £10,403).
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. £900,000 £900,000 £900,000
Sundry creditors and
deposits . . . . 96,413 56,047 62,183
Freeholds .. .. 129,716 135,097 139.157
Plant, etc 205,156 196,805 206,604
Stocks 221,102 198,988 285,575
Sundry debtors.. .. 98,100 79,810 93,210
Advances, etc. . . .. 16,899 13,496 23,899
Cash, etc. . . .. 114,068 76,714 64,361
Shares in other cos. .. 521,169 522,032 442,394
On freehold and plant £11,859 more was
spent than was written off; additions
and alterations were made to the Abbots-
ford Mills (Vic.), partly to guard against
the possibility of again suffering damage
by flood. Cash, etc., was reduced by
£12,353, and shares in other cos. by
£79,638 net. -The co. has over £400,000
invested in the Globe Woollen Mills,
Sydney; they were bought in 1929, and
now contribute substantially to the pool.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£404,862, including
stocks but not shares in other cos.) was
£91,901.
During the last term turnover con-
tinued to expand. The spring in gross
earnings (£142,588) was £16,463. Exes.
(£35,464) took £11,524 of the increase,
leaving the net result £4939 better at 11.9
p.c. on capital as against 11.3, 11.6, 10.9,
7.4 and 5.7 p.c. back to 1931. The div.
was lifted to 10 p.c. again; it was
lowered to 8 p.c. in 1935, owing to flood
losses, which amounted to £64,088.
As for the current term, orders on
hand for delivery during the first half
are “very satisfactory,” and, unless some-
thing unforeseen happens, the co. should
maintain its present position, the chair-
man says. ;
At 41s. 6d. (40s. a year ago) the fully-
paid pound shares return 4.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Subject to intangibles
in the Globe Cos., the cover is 255. in
net tangibles.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
,- —Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 58,970 7 p.e. 10 p.c. =51,243 7,727 38,460
Added Service Shares reserve, £35,000.. 73,460
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,915
1930.. 64,224 6 p.c.* Nil 6,610 57,614 140,029
Loss.
1931.. 26,260 t Nil Nil
Profit.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26.577 6* „ 4 p.c. =31,579
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 24 „„ 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* „ Nil 6,659
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 —% 53,886
*lncludc-s 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
1410. fAfter making special provision ( £59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts. Ilncludes arrears.
This co. operates three plants in S.
Aus., one at Geelong (Vic.) and has a
£90,000 share interest in Fresco Fertili-
zers (W.A.), Ltd. (paid capital £313,577).
Including allowances for bad debts and
depreciation, aggregate losses (£72,081)
have exceeded aggregate profits
(£65,868) by £6213 over the last half-
dozen years. Wheat-farmers’ debts bulk
largely among the assets of these fer-
tiliser cos.; and the low price of the
grain enormously increased the growers’
burden in terms of that commodity. It
also reduced the demand for super, in S,
Aus. from the peak figure of 196,746
tons in 1929-30 to 157,189 tons in 1934-
35 ; last year the figure, rose to 174,591
tons. Meanwhile, there have been
several cuts in selling prices, partly on
account of competition from Victoria,
while overhead has remained' relatively
stubborn.
In 1931 Cresco made a special pro-
vision of £59,000 for bad debts and
depreciation, and then recorded net
profits aggregating £65,868 for the next
three, years. In the following term a
loss of £29,349 showed up, of which
£25,000 was in respect of provision for
bad debts (£15,000) and depreciation
(£10,000), and £4349 in respect of the
year’s trading. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, there was
a further cut in selling prices, which was
reflected in a slip of £43,856 in gross
earnings (£20,412), despite increased
sales. Exes. (£36,884) were pulled back
£31,733, leaving a trading loss of
£16,472. No allowance was made for
depreciation or bad debts. Reserves
were bitten into for a further £6659 to
pay the pref. divs., reducing the lay-
by to £53,886. The ords were passed
by for the fifth time in seven years.
The year’s loss and payment of the
pref. div. are further reflected in a con-
traction of £33,166 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£241,454, including stocks
but not shares in other cos.):-=-
1924. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £290,031 £734,574 £734,679 £734,679
Liabilities .. 57,418 498,433 132,709 180,600
Freeholds and ] f
plant . . 1- 307,474 608,211 \ 453,735 463,769
Stocks.. .. J (.136,818 95,414
Shares in other
cos. . .
Advances to W.A.
co
Debtors .. 69,840 602,375 209,468 237,471
Cash, etc. . . 4,257 939 61,043 89,169
To carry an extra £28,003 of book debts,
add £28,126 to cash, etc., and £10,034 to
the book value of fixed assets, mainly
on account of plant extensions at Gee-
long, the board went outside for an
extra £47,891 net.
As for the current term, the outlook
has brightened considerably. With wheat
now fetching over ss. a bushel, the debts
question will become less acute, the
demand for super, can be expected to
increase, and the Federal subsidy (10s.
a ton on super, used other than for
wheat grown for grain) has been re-
newed. Also, the three fertiliser manu-
facturing cos. in S. Aus. (all together
• they operate six factories there) have
decided to bury the hatchet and go on the
market together. A joint selling co.,
Fertilizer Sales, Ltd., which has been
formed for the purpose, will handle fac-
tory output on a quota basis, thus elimin-
ating price-cutting and reducing over-
head. The high price of wheat, however,
is due to a combination of circumstances
that may not be repeated.
At 18s. 9d. the 6 p.c. cumulative par-
ticipating prefs.. return 6.4 p.c.; it is
difficult, to say when the participating
rights (they are entitled to advance with
the ords. up to 9 p.c.) are likely to
amount to anything. The ords., for
which ;10s. was asked a year ago, are
now priced at 7s. The net tangible cover
(book value) is £7 Is. 9d. prefs. and
21s. 9d. ords.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Rc- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 38,448 7 p.c. = 28,060 10,448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,853
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil
1930.. 164,575 Nil
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6.10 S
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
1935.. 30,128 6.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
1936. . 35,680 9.1 „ „ 20,000 15,680 56,192
This co. buys wool and furred-skins, etc.,
in Australia, largely on its own account,
and sells them overseas. Thus the time
factor makes earnings very vulnerable to
price fluctuations. On a rising market
the co. gathers good profits, of course,
but when a burst of liquidation or other
cause reverses the price trend it is diffi-
cult for the management to avoid sub-
stantial losses, as the figures for 1921,
1925 and 1929 and the two following
years show. Owing to the headlong
descent of prices, a loss of £164,575


u
HAVE YOU £25
—or more
TO INVEST ?
Here is the opportunity to obtain a beneficial interest in every
one of the following 20 Australian Companies:—
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd.; The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.; Tooth & Co., Ltd.;
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.; Australasian Paper & Pulp Co., Ltd.; Australian
Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.; Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.; Colonial
Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.; David .Jones, Ltd.; Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.;
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.; Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.;
General Industries, Ltd.; Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.; Henry Jones Co-op.,
Ltd.; Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.; Sargents, Ltd.; W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.;
Yarra Falls, Ltd.: Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Shares in the above Companies form the UNIT of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
This Unit is divided into 3000 equal parts termed SUB-UNITS, which
are available to YOU.
Your funds are protected by the Custodian Trustees,
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON LIMITED
UNION BUILDING, BOND STREET, SYDNEY
who
• Hold all the Securities above for you.
• Issue Certificates of Ownership to you.
• Collect the Income and distribute it to
you twice-yearly, without deduction.
THE YIELD, based on a price of 21s. 9d. per Sub-unit (as at
6/1 1 /’36) and the Income received during the past year, is:—
From Dividends £3 19 5
From Bonuses and Sales of Rights 17 Ilf
TOTAL YIELD £4 17 4f per £lOO.
Through this modern form of safe investment so popular in
Great Britain, your funds are spread over a wide range of
enterprise, minimising fluctuation in capital value. There is
no ordinary commercial risk which could affect all the securities
at the same time.
You may obtain a free descriptive Booklet and SUB-UNIT
CERTIFICATES through any Member of a recognised Stock
Exchange; the Custodian Trustees; or direct from the Managers:
iLustraltan fixed Crusts
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028VV, G.P.O.
by whom further information will gladly be given.
NOBED
I
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL
i
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLI).: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalffety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
eort" o “ on
O/ 1 via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. NIAGARA" . ...... From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" ....... From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. NIAGARA" ......... From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fare s. Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREFT SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
showed up in 1930 (the worst of the
trouble occurred in connection with
furred-skins, sold mainly in New York
and London), leaving £180,138 of the
capital unrepresented by tangibles—good-
will figured at £130,000. The intangibles
were rubbed out by striking 9s. per share
(£180,000) off capital, reducing it to
£220,000 in 400,000 shares fully-paid to
11s. each. Supplies continued to press
heavily on prices, and a further loss of
£19,705 was recorded in 1931. It was
wiped out by profits, for the two follow-
ing years, and, after a five-year wait,
shareholders got into the picture again
in 1934, and have remained there.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the co. operated mostly
on a rising market, notwithstanding re-
strictions in foreign centres and the sus-
pension of trade with Italy. The Austra-
lian average for wool was £l7 12s. 3d.
(up £4 18s. lOd.) per bale, and there was
a sharp rise of £868,827 in the value
(£1,745,048) of rabbit- and hare-skins ex-
ported, too. After providing for contin-
gencies, the board figured net earnings
£5552 better at 16.2 p.c. on capital as
against 13.6, 17.8 and 11.1 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The div. was
raised from 6.8 p.c. to 9.1 p.c. —the 9.1
p.c. is equal to 5 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the cut in 1930 —and the
£15,680 that remained lifted reserves to
£56,192, which is not a very stout prop
for capital, considering the nature of the
business.
Balance-sheet movements were en-
couraging :
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Liabilities .. 297,637 117,713 191,285 200,593
Fixed assets.. 190,493 180,054 169,759 177,192
Stocks .. 253,293 89,876 170,654 157,451
Book debts .. 73,102 48,701 125,293 160,856
Cash.. .. 610 686 1,091 1,287
A reduction of £13,203 in stocks was ac-
companied by a growth of £35,563 in
debtors’ balances. Only £8907 was added
to the outside debt. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£119,001)
was £13,248. ;. ■
Mindful of the risks, the market prices
the scrip at 11s. 6d., at which figure the
return is 8.7 p.c. on a 9.1 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 13s. 9d. in net tangibles.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 63,117 10,500 124 p.c:=40,505 12,112 76,931
1927.. 72.025 10,500 16i „ „ 52,656 8,869 85,800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13| „,, 44,555 5,421 91,221
1929.. 65,213 10,500 135,, „ 44,555 10,158101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 „ „ 32,404 3,496104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 24 „ „ 8,101
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,686
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2J „ „ 8,101
Unexplained reductions, £IO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. ,19,909 10,500 Nil
Unexplained additions, £2225 .. .. 1,403
Profit. Reserves.
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
This old-established Bourke-street re-
tailer, which used to specialise in high-
grade fashion goods from overseas, the
most difficult of all drapery lines, trans-
ferred its headquarters from London to
Melbourne at the start of the post-war
boom in 1919, partly to sidestep double
taxation. At the same time £150,000 of 7
p.c. pref. capital replaced the debenture
money on which the co. had worked.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1930 the ords. averaged a shade over
13 p.c., sweetened with £133,221 of bonus
scrip. Then slump and the growth of
competition called for big changes in
merchandising methods, and, over the last
half-dozen difficult years, aggregate
profits have exceeded aggregate losses by
only £3625, and reserves were bitten into
for nearly £IOO,OOO to keep up payments
to the prefs. and give the ords. an aver-
age of 1.8 p.c.
The mischief occurred mostly in com
nection with stocks. Imported merchan-
dise and a falling market were mainly
responsible for the loss of £24,622 in
1931. The figures for the two following
years suggested that the co. had over-
come the worst of its problems. When
the books closed in 1933, stocks were
reported of the newest and conservatively
valued. A year later, a loss of £17,894
followed a drastic overhaul of the stock
sheets. For the next term the loss was
£19,909, owing to “excessive Continental
and Eastern purchases” in anticipation of
a demand which failed to materialise —
the co. counted on making more sales
ẃ


&> omm comma
■
I
;
■
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
than it did during the centenary cele-
brations.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts more cautious buying,
combined with monthly trial balances
and half-yearly stocktaking, enabled the
management to keep a tighter hold upon
the business. The result was a profit of
£17,013, or enough to pay the prefs.
their £10,500 and show 2 p.c. on ord.
capital. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained addition of £2225 to
reserves, now £sllO in excess of good-
will (£60,741), which is not treated as
an asset herein. The ords. were passed
by again. Prospects of their getting
something for the current term are en-
couraging.
Realising this, the market prices the
shares at 17s. 6d. as against 14s. a year
ago. The return at 17s. 6d. would be
5.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The pref.
div. and 5 p.c. to the ords would call
for £26,702, or £9689 more than was
netted last year. The prefs. at 235. return
6.1 p.c. The net tangible cover is 635.
lid. prefs. and 225. 3d. ords.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
, 1921. 1930. 1935. 1930.
Ord capital.. £254,433 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 172,199 268,G73 370,820 335,884
Premises, etc. 165,109 411,044 408,089 407,794
Plant, etc. .. 34,2.34 83,405 96,320 94,831
Book debts .. 105,415 77,308 59,741 63,850
Stock .. . . 279,151 304,582 199,678 175,347
Cash .. . . 50,870 5,323 39,814 28,406
Last year stocks were reduced by £24,331,
cash by £11,348, and £40,936 was snipped
off the outside debt, which consists of a
mortgage (unchanged at £225,000), de-
posits (£86,519, down £44,451) and sun-
dry creditors (£24,365, up £355). When
the books closed, the amount coming to
outsiders exceeded more or less liquids
by £68,215, an improvement of £9332
over the twelvemonth.
Emperor (Fiji)
From the beginning of 1936 to August
8, Emperor (Fiji) gathered £56,775 from
the sale of bullion, etc. Mining and
milling, etc., took £15,131, and develop-
ment, etc., £28,473, leaving £13,171 net.
Costs were mining 4s. 5.2 and., milling 10s.
5.8 and., general 6s. 1.9 and. (this includes
2s. 6d. towards development); total, 21s.
0.9 and. per ton. That was with the pilot
plant, which treated a monthly average
of 1500-odd tons of 12.5dwt. oxidised ore
(mainly from the opencut) over the 12
months to Sept. 5. To represent the
£750,000 of paid capital and £2BBI com-
ing to sundry creditors at June 30, there
were 100,000 £1 shares in Emperor G.M.
Cos., in at £602,321 ; advances to the same
co., £65,176; shares in Tavua Power
Pty., £17,000 ; deposits and cash, £42,976 ;
debtors, etc., £BS; preliminary exes.
(£24,172) and p. and 1. debit (£614),
£24,786.
Dividends should begin to flow after
the new mill comes into operation, about
September next. It is designed to treat
oxidised ore, and will have a capacity of
about 12,000 tons a month. Estimated
cost is £170,000. On an annual through-
put of 150,000 tons of 9dwt. ore, and
with all-in costs at 17s. 6d. a ton, the
co. figures on a profit of £408,750 p.a.
(approximately ss. 6d. per share) with
gold at £8 an ounce (Aust.).
The mine is opening up nicely. At
flotation, about a year ago, T. R. Victor
figured proved ore at 211,000 tons, con-
taining 141,5000 z. fine gold. At Sep-
tember last, proved ore had increased to
570,000 tons, and (he content to 335,000
ounces fine gold. The potential gross
value of the property has thus increased
from 15s. Id. to 355. Bd. a share with
gold at £8 an ounce (Aust.). More
recently, H. J. C. Conolly assessed ore
reserves at 720,000 tons, or about five
years’ work for the new mill; and appear-
ances are that on the footwall
side of the lode on the 190 ft. level will
add a bit more oxidised ore to the figure
yet. How the ore-body will behave as
to dimensions and value below this point,
where the sulphides come in, nobody can
say definitely until it is tested, and the
co. has plenty of time in which to do
the work. Sulphide ore would, of course,
raise fresh treatment problems. If suffi-
cient of it is developed, the intention is
to gradually instal suitable plant units
until the required capacity is obtained.
Placer Development
Placer Development has declared a 50
cents (Canadian) div. for the year ended
April 30 last, payable Nov. 21. The co.
holds 288,263 $5 shares in Bulolo (New
Guinea), 800,000 $1 shares (= 50 p.c.) in
Pato Consolidated and 600,000 $1 shares
in Asnazu Gold Dredging (both Colom-
bia, S. America), 10 p.c. of the issued
capital of Golden Queen Mining Cos., 64
р. of the issued shares in Rutherglen
Gold Dumps (Vic.) and options over two
gold properties in Netherlands East
Indies. Oroville (London) is its partner
in the S. American ventures.
The Pato properties are estimated to
contain approximately 500,000,000 c.y. of
gravel, expected to yield a working profit
of over $40,000,000, with gold at its
present price. There are two dredges on
the ground, and four new ones are to
be installed at a cost of around $600,000
each —the first is scheduled to begin early
in 1937. After they had been recondi-
tioned, the two old dredges won gold
worth $351,000, of which $195,000 was
working profit, before allowing for depre-
ciation.
For the 8! months to April 30, the
Asnazu Cos. dredged 935,000 c.y. for
11,5170 z. fine gold. Before allowing for
depreciation, the working profit was
$214,000. Here there is 12 years’ work
measured up for the dredge, and more
pay-dirt is being proved.
Rutherglen Gold Dumps is dealing
profitably with its slum heaps, and further
dumps have been acquired, to treat which
another 500-ton-a-day plant is being
planned.
For the year ended May 31, Bulolo
Dredging won 121,352 fine ounces gold
and 52,600 ounces silver from 10,915,000
с. on its property in New Guinea.
Working profit was $3,190,850, and
sundry income $18,135. The usual $1 40
cents (Canadian) interim div. has been
declared. At May 31, dredging reserves
were put at 204,000,000 c.y. of 33 cent
gravel, expected to show a working profit
of $50,000,000. Three new dredges are
under construction, the first to be ready
in July next.
* * * *
Following the announcement that the
International Tin Committee had agreed
to anew tin-control scheme to run for
five years from the beginning of 1937,
the spot price of the metal in London
shot up to £235 15s. a ton on Nov. 6, a
rise of £2l 17s. 6d. on the previous day’s
quote. Siam is reported to have accepted
a quota of 18,500 tons, Bolivia and Bel-
gian Congo agreeing to accommodate it
from their own quotas. This and the
long-term nature of the agreement appear
to have been mainly responsible for the
sharp rise in the price of the metal,
though speculators may have been
caught short. If export quotas are main-
tained at 90 p.c., annual production of
the metal will be raised only 8000 tons.
Total standard production is 197,000
tons. Apparent world consumption for
the 12 months to the end of August was
154,261 tons.
* * * *
Over the last three months, mills on
the Herberton (N.Q.) tinfields crushed
1425 tons of ore for 126 tons t. 0., valued
at £16,618. During the same period,
stream tinners obtained 47| tons t. 0.,
worth £6529. The biggest yield was 30
tons t.o. from 159 tons ore from the
Cornishman, where No. 2 shaft is down
125 ft. Some 7 p.c. ore awaits crushing.
At the Rainbow 20 p.c. ore is being
raised, and 15 p.c. stuff is being removed
from the Canberra. Water has hampered
the Great Northern, where a pumping
plant has been installed; yet lack of
water is holding up several sluicing
plants in the district.
* * * *
A promising show on the Ravenswood
goldfield (N.Q.) is the Quarrien (for-
merly the Wellington) on Spring Creek,
near the old Kirk Diggings. The old
shaft has been reconditioned to a depth
of 85ft., where a reef 42in. thick was
disclosed. A parcel of 21 tons 14cwt.
crushed at Chillagoe yielded 15!oz. fine
gold and 2960 z. silver. Several other old
mines on the Kirk Diggings are being re-
opened. Gold was first discovered in the
locality in 1865, and early crushings aver-
aged 3oz.
* * * *
Some of the old mines in the Eidsvold
district (Q.) are being tried again. At
the Lady Augusta, a profitable producer
20 years ago, the last six tons yielded
15oz. Bdwt. The reef .averages 4in. in
width. At the Lady Elizabeth, where
the last 10 tons returned 4|oz., opera-
tions have been suspended while finance
for further development is sought.
* * * *
Over the last five months Cirson Cin-
nabar Mines, six miles from Kilkivan
(Q.), treated 105 tons of lode and alluvial
for 19441 b. of mercury, Valued at approxi-
mately £SOO. Queensland Quicksilver Cos.
is also at work in the same district, where
the first mercurial ore was located by a
shepherd in 1872.
* * * *
For the year to April 30 Gold Mines
of Australia (it floated Mt. Coolon and
Morning Star) recorded a loss of £17,952,
due mainly to investigation of properties
in which the co. is no longer interested
and to writing off the cost of 30,000
shares in Berry Leads. From Nov 21,
1935, to Sept. 8 last 60 properties were
submitted to the co., which is now in-
vestigating four. At Allendale (Vic.)
boring has located the main lead for 2!
miles.
* sk sk #
With a nominal capital of £500,000 in
2,000,000 shares of 4s. each —£100,000
is said to be immediately available —
Ballarat East Gold; Fields, Ltd., has been
registered in London to take over
Ballarat East Development’s leases at
Ballarat (Vic.). As vendor, the Develop-
ment Cos. will receive £3OOO cash and
175,000 fully-paid shares in the new
show, while, the vendor’s shareholders —
2413 contribs. paid to £2 are held by
the public—will have an option over a
parcel of contribs. The leases to be
acquired have yielded some rich returns
in the past, chiefly from large, flat
makes. In the period 1894-1916 costs
ranged from 18s. 6d. to 255. a ton, but
modern methods and large-scale opera-
tions are expected to reduce the figure
to 12s. 6d. On this basis, l!dwt. stuff
would be payable with gold at £8 10s. an
ounce. There are two main lines of reef,
the Ballarat East and the Sulieman
Pasha, and the formations are thought
to live down to 3000 ft. Deepest shaft
at present is 1600 ft. In the long ago the
“leatherjacket” reefs were the backbone
of the field ; these were stoped in widths
up to 100 ft., and provided large lower-
grade but consistent tonnages down to
1200 ft. and 1300 ft. The ore is said to be
free-milling.
5k 5k * *
Before providing £66,000 for taxes and
£73,359 for depreciation, Lake View and
Star, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), netted £478,414
in the 12 months to June 30 last, com-
pared with £380,934 and £460,238 in the
two preceding years. A 2! p.c. bonus
was added to the 50 p.c. div., making
52| p.c. (= £210,000) for the year as
against 50 p.c. for the previous term. An
interim 12! p.c. has also been declared in
respect of the current term. Since 1912
the mine has yielded shareholders some
£1,079,000 in divs.
* * * *
A year ago shareholders of Lady Shen-
ton (W.A.) were told that 50,000 tons
of positive ore, assaying nearly l!oz. per
ton, and 7623 tons of broken ore, aver-
aging about 18dwt. per ton, were visible,
and that 36,205 tons of probable ore
was partly visible. Now, after some
5000 tons has been treated for a return
of £25,550 (Aust.), the present manager
estimates positive and probable ore at
3300 tons, averaging 11.85dwt., and pos-
sible ore at 2300 tons, averaging 13dwt.
The board’s explanation is that the
former manager’s computations were in-
accurate, an opinion which the market
held for some time past. At June 30,
sundry creditors figured at £9718, of
which £8409, since reduced to £7062, was
coming to the Kalgoorlie Foundry ; cash
and bullion totalled £5224. The present
manager is confident of locating further
gold-bearing shoots; two have already
been disclosed by the drill.
* * * *
Westralia Renown (W.A.) has ex-
tracted £1332 from 400 tons of ore from
the recently-bought Mt. Margaret mine.
Both Westralia Renown and Mt. Mar-
garet Mines are in the Morgans district,
on the Mt. Margaret field, and within a
few miles of each other. There is a
large dump of old residues on the Re-
nown, estimated to average 2dwt. or
thereabouts, and a fair tonnage of pay-
able ore is stated to be visible below. Mt.
Margaret is a newly-opened old mine ;
so far very little ore has been taken from
it. Western Mining Corp. is supervising
operations on both properties.
* * * *
Western Queen (W.A.) is distressed
again. The board anticipated that the
£7500 raised by reconstruction this year
would enable the old co. to liquidate its
debts and proceed unhindered with min-
ing operations. Now, a second-hand gas
engine has given trouble, and anew one
has to be purchased. The board says
that prospects are all right and urges
shareholders to pay a Id. call this month
and hang on.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales (deputy-chairman,
and said to be the largest shareholder) is
tipped to succeed late Newton Moore
as chairman of the Great Boulder. He
was mainly responsible for additions
now being made to the co.’s treatment
plant to lift its monthly capacity
to 25,000 tons by the beginning of
1938. Meanwhile ore reserves are being
steadily increased, mainly as a result of
continued good developments in the
northern (Hamilton’s) section of the
mine.
* * *■ *
On the basis of an output of 10,000
tons a month, London-controlled Ora
Banda United (W.A.) claims to have
10 years’ ore supplies in sight. Some-
thing is also said about ore in a lode
“over 150 ft. wide in places,” which has
not yet been taken into account. The
market would like independent confirma-
tion of the estimates.
* * * *
Ingliston Consolidated is bruited as
the next Westralian goldmining float in
London. The co. will work a number
of properties on the main (Paddy’s Flat)
line of lode at Meekatharra. A mini-
mum working capital of £750,000 (stg.)
has been mentioned.
* * * *
Halley’s Comet is still shining brightly
in Westralia’s auriferous sky. Over
£IOO,OOO worth of gold is already visible,
and a lot more is tipped to come into
view by and by.
ẅ


In spite ef ii>iXoand
SUMMMMB'S HKMT
X
V.
1
s
£ 8
388 S
li
Hi
MILEAGE
.Sfc\V>
V
I
O'
&l\2
E
63 gives
1
1
8
0
B
2%
>
"Tread-Bum" (the damage to your
tread caused by heat and speed)
increases in a ruthless "sliding
scale." For instance, take speed:
When you DOUBLE your speed you
exactly DOUBLE your "Tread-Bum."
Take heat: If you average, say, 33
miles an hour, in the heat of a 90-
degree day you suffer THREE TIMES
more "Tread-Bum" than on a cool
50-degree day. Imagine then, the
damage an ordinary tyre's tread
suffers under Summer heat
COMBINED with Summer speeds in
present-day fast carsl
So it's important, for the sake of
securing the mileage you pay for,
to make sure your tyres can beat
"Tread-Bum." That means ride
on ”G-3". Its 43% (and more)
longer non-skid mileage proves
that ”G-3" BEATS "TREAD-BURN."
6 STANDOUT FEATURES
That make the "G-3" the finest tyre money can buy
1 HEAT-RESISTING COMPOUND
throughout entire construction. This
reduces the destructive frictional heat
caused by to-day's high speeds.
2 ”G-3" TREAD flatter and wider, for
cooler running and longer mileage.
3 ALL-WEATHER TREAD best-proved
non-skid tread in the world, made still
thicker and heavier more rubber.
4 "THE GOODYEAR MARGIN OF
SAFETY" for quickest stopping. The
"G-3" has tougher rubber, slotted
deeper to give many more miles of
non-skid safety.
5 "SUPERTWIST CORD" in every ply to
provide maximum protection against
bruises and blowouts. Exclusive
Goodyear feature.
0 STRICTEST CONSTRUCTION SPECI-
FICATIONS in the industry in
materials, workmanship, balance and
inspection.
J \
MADE IN AUSTRAL! A


ABORIGINALITIES
“E.S.S.”: One celebrity who didn’t
turn up for the Back to Bourke festi-
vities was Quandong, known also along
the Darling as The Kerosene Swiller.
He lobbed into a, Bourke pub. one after-
noon with an outback thirst. Mrs. Bung
refused to put his name on the slate.
“Clear out!” she said. “I’m sick of the
sight of you.” That evening the maid-
of-all-work reported to Mrs. Bung that
there was no kerosene, and all the lamps
had been emptied. “That’s Quandong,”
said the hostess. “The old beast!” Shortly
afterwards, as if relenting, she gave him
two nips of rum. He didn’t remember
anything after that. When he woke in
the grey dawn he was lying in a drifting
flattie, with his head pillowed on his
swag, about 10 miles down the river.
Bourke never saw him again.
* * * *
“Falconer”: Who said sheep have no
sense? A flock that grazes at an M.L.
aerodrome knows something that many
humans don’t—that a ’plane always takes
off into the wind. If the sheep are near
the hangars when a ’plane starts up
they’re off immediately, running always
with the wind and therefore away from
the direction that the ’plane will take.
“Kat”: Sheep may be silly, but they
know their oats. At the Werribee Ex-
perimental Farm (Vic.) sheep were put
into a paddock where, oats grew in sepa-
rate plots of early, mid-season and late
varieties. The sheep grazed through the
early plot, then the mid-season, and
then the late. Afterwards they were put
into a second paddock in which the
order of the plots was mixed. The sheep
stampeded around until they had sorted
out the three varieties ; then ate them
in the right order.
♦.♦ # ♦
“Eureka”: The cook had given the
shearers nothing but a doughy plum duff
every day for weeks. “Can’t you make
any other sort of puddin’?” “Snow”
asked him one evening. “ ’Course I
can,” the cook replied. “Just say what
sort you’d like and it’s as good as made,
providin’, of course, I’ve got the ingredi-
ents for it.” “Well, what about a blanc-
mange?” “Cripes, I’d like to,” the bab.
replied, “but there isn’t a bit of drippin’
in the place.”
* * :)< *
“Rikki”: The man who suggested
bringing the mongoose to Australia to
deal with rabbits and snakes ought to
be shut up in a dry, underground tank
with a dozen of the little murderers and
left there. Years ago the West Indies
made the mistake of importing mongoose
to kill the cane rats. After a bit the
beasts found that the swarming chickens
of the nigger fowlruns and the numerous
ground-dwelling and ground-nesting
native birds were much easier marks
than the big rats, and more palatable.
As a result keeping poultry in some of
the islands became impossible, and many
rare birds, some of them peculiar to the
Indies, vanished for ever.
* * * *
“A.M.”: I watched a chap cleaning
an old-model pea rifle. He got a piece
of rag stuck half-way down the barrel,
and after vainly pushing at it with the
cleaning-rod he loaded it with a .22 shot,
tied a string to the trigger, took cover
behind a tree and pulled the string.
There was a muffled report and a slight
hiss. The rag was still there, now re-
inforced with lead. He tried again, this
time with a long cartridge, with the same
result. Finally, in desperation, he poured
the powder from two long cartridges into
the barrel, put another cartridge with
the bullet removed in the breach and
fired. This time the bolt blew off, the
holder was bent almost flat and the stock
shattered, but the barrel remained in-
tact. Apparently nothing short of dyna-
mite will settle, a .22 barrel.
* * * ' *
“No. 1”: Grandpa, mounted on the
old cow-horse, commenced to run the
flighty new mare into the yards. The
skittish nag invariably approached the
rails in good order, but would then turn
and bolt away. One by one, half a
dozen mounted men assembled from
different quarters, but their combined
efforts were fruitless. The mare came up
as before, shied and sidestepped like a
winger going for a try. The language
appropriate to the occasion grew more
so than usual, despite the proximity of
the homestead. Grandma got an earful,
and dashed out. “Down off those horses
and let me have, a go!” she commanded.
Derisively everyone obeyed. Gran, set
off on foot, added the loose saddle-
horses to the mare, and shooed the lot
into the yard. Then she abused everyone
for gaping instead of shutting the rails
for an old woman.
* * * *
“Beesknees”: Emu-killing dogs which
go for the thigh (B. 7/10/’36) are not
properly trained; that method means
death or permanent injury by kicks.
Besides, it is only the dwarf type of emu
that a dog could bring down that way.
The throat is th? place to go for. .
“Look here , Sheba, you lay of my old man or you'll be getting yourself into trouble!'
“John Dory”: Talking of stingers in
the sea, even a small flathead can give
a jab with its spurs that will keep a man
squirming for an hour or more.
Watched the Muggins of a boatload of
anglers grab a big flathead between
his legs preparatory to extracting the
hook. Before warning could be given a
spur had him in the groin, easily pene-
trating his thin shorts. We had to put
back to port to obtain medical attention
for him. Curiously, black estuary flat-
head, although capable of drawing blood
freely, seem to possess no venom. An-
other sea terror is the red gurnet, of
Westralian waters. Six spikes like knit-
ting needles project from its dorsal fin,
and a jab from one makes the recipient
feel as if he were struck by lightning.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: What can a swagman
average a day? One arrived at Dead-
man’s Creek, 20 miles below Bourke
(N.S.W.); he had covered that dis-
tance in the morning. Before ambling
off in a fast Chinese shuffle with a full
equipment, he told us: “I ’ave to walk
or this game gets sort of monotonous.
Besides, the more stations y’ pass the
more handouts y’ get. I do 36 to 40
mile a day, always.” We didn’t believe
him, especially as the bulb was about
114 deg. for weeks, but later our horse-
tailer tracked the sundowner from home-
stead to homestead to Wilcannia. He
had walked from Bourke, 220 miles, in
under six days.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The old bush custom of
turning spurs with the rowel over the
instep when walking (B. 21 /10/’36) re-
minds me. I joined an Australian regi-
ment in South Africa. When we arrived
at Bloemfontein from Cape Town
complaints as to the nuisance of wearing
spurs in crowded carriages induced
some scoundrel to tell the Old Man
about the turned spurs. Orders were
immediately issued that everyone should
reverse the hooks. In five minutes the
many Imperial officers thronging the
railway station where we were waiting
on the platform faded away as if from
a mob of lunatics, and presently an
imposing P.M. arrived and demanded
the head of the colonel on a charger.
The Old Man stuck to his guns and
explained that his men were not im-
properly dressed, but in conformity with
Australian dress regs. Presently the
P.M. departed with bowed shoulders, an
A.P.M. and two red-caps supporting
him, and the empty train for which we
had been waiting all the morning arrived
with suspicious promptness to whisk us
away from Bloemfontein.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: “Johnhop’s” question
(B. 14/10/’36) was answered in The
Bulletin of August 9, 1902. “One
yarn is that some Jimmy Woods used to
always drink by himself; another, that
a man wanting to drink by himself asked
an imaginary Jimmy Woods to come
and drink with him.” The first yarn is
correct, according to old hands of that
time. Jimmy Woods didn’t like company
as well as he liked beer, and used to
say, “I don’t waste my money fillin’
other people with grog; I shout for
Jimmy Woods.”
* * *
“C. 8.”: The alleged inscrutability of
the Oriental’s countenance, so beloved
of the novelist, has no foundation in
fact. In the gambling-dens of Cairns’s
Chinatown, the motley crowd of
Chinese, Japanese, Malays and Hindus
who gather round the fan-tan and pak-
a-pu tables are characterised by anything
but imperturbability. Excited chattering
is the rule, and pandemonium breaks
loose if anyone considers himself to have
been given a raw deal by the banker.
The elation or dejection consequent upon
good or bad luck is plainly visible on
their faces. The Oriental is really a
child of nature.
* * * *
“The Bridge”: Coming rather late on
the scene I saw only one of a tribe of
Queensland abos. who were famous in
their day for baldness among the men.
He was an old man who acted as a sort
of yardman at Cussen’s Hotel in St.
George. The old chap was sensitive
about his baldness, and always wore a
sort of rag turban under his hat. In
earlier days there were many of these,
thatchless darkies among the Balonne
blacks, only the men being thus distin-
guished. Incidentally, the Balonne blacks,
male and female, were the finest physical
specimens writer has seen in an experi-
ence ranging from the Gulf to the
southern border of Bananaland. The
women, instead of shrivelling up into
decrepit crones early in life, developed
after girlhood into Junoesque types quite
unlike any I have seen elsewhere. Cer-
tainly in those days there was no opium
and little rum to deteriorate the tribal
fibre developed by generations of life in
what was a country teeming with fish
and game before tbe white man came
and long after. Curiously enough, though
old hands would discuss theories as to
the baldness till the cows came home,
no one ever seems to have interested a
scientist in it,
*•* * *
“James W.”: An old farm horse at
Pindi Pindi, Mackay (N.Q.), struggled
across a sloppy mud flat to a small island
in a coastal mangrove swamp at low tide.
He was sagacious enough to realise that
the flat was dangerous, and stayed put
on the island. His owner, one Butter-
worth, sought him high and low, and
after some weeks gave him up for lost.
After nine weeks he was found, still alive,
on the island. He had denuded the
mangroves of leaves and bark for as
high as he could reach. His mouth and
throat showed no signs of his having
drunk salt water, and there is no fresh
water on the island.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: The season affects the
speed of a kangaroo (B, 7/10/’36), and
if “Macropus” wants to head a blue
flier in a good grass season he’ll need
a racehorse under him. On western
N.S.W. claypans I’ve paced these hoppers
in a car at over 40 m.p.h., when they’ve
been covering 22 feet in a hop. Yet in
the 1929 drought on the same station
you could nearly run them down on
foot'. Another two-legger that should
run “M.” a race is a Cape York Penin-
sula whiptail. I’ve never tackled one on
good going but they’ve always left my
horse standing.
% % * #
“F.Y.7”: There is little doubt about
an eagle being able to lift a lamb. In
the long ago on the Barcoo the eagle was
übiquitous, and in the lambing season a
genuine pest. Investigation of their great
nests, which were studded in dead trees
over the run, showed lamb carcasses
only. In other seasons the kangaroo-rat,
though nimblest of the marsupials, was
the favorite diet when carrion palled.
Anyone who has seen the trouble an
eagle has to lift itself off the ground
would doubt if it could do it with a
lamb. This presupposes that the bird
first lights on the ground, spits on its
claws, grabs a lamb after chasing it
round the paddock and away. Actually,
the eagle takes all live game on the
wing. It volplanes at tremendous speed
the quarry is picked up and the hire!
sweeps into the air again, impelled b>
the velocity of its fall, just as does the
’plane. Where there was no need to
carry the prey away it was killed with
a blow of the talons, the eagle returning
to feed on the ground. I have watched
both processes often.
A CONCERTINA.
Over the traffic’s whir and hum,
The ceaseless rush of feet,
A concertina’s shrill tones come
From somewhere in the street.
And in a trice the years go back;
Old settings l recall —
Some tangled saplings by a track;
Gaunt gums; an old bush hall.
And there, a shadow in the night,
1 pause a while to see
Within the line of candlelight
A dance go merrily.
Above the concertina’s strain
What echoing calls are sent!
“Select your partners,” “centre,” “chain,”
“First lady,” “op’site gent.”
Upon the air the faint notes die;
The bush scene fades, and, lo!
The trams again are clashing by,
The crowd tramps to and fro.
VICTORIA.
G.B.


“Herbert Dawson”: A very unpopu-
lar bird is the cuckoo during nesting
time in the bush, but the lazy blighter
does not always seem to realise it. Saw
one very quickly enlightened the other
day. It was seated placidly on a limb
with a dozen soldier-birds screeching
round and making ineffectual dabs at it.
Suddenly something like a tiny chip off
a rainbow fell hurtling from the sky. It
hit the cuckoo on the back of the neck
and knocked it clean off the limb in a
flurry of drifting grey feathers. Up into
the air shot the jewelled speck; then
down again. With an angry squeak it
dived into the trousers area of the flee-
ing cuckoo. A squawk of anguish from
the grey loafer ; more drifting feathers ;
frenzied hooraying by the soldier-birds,
and, as the cuckoo started eating up the
miles, the tiny but efficient kingfisher
flew quietly back to his nesting mate in
the hollow gum. The soldier-birds poked
out their foolish yellow bills towards
one another for half an hour —skiting
about how they had repelled the invader.
Incidentally, these birds doubtless get
their names from the peculiar head
markings, which resemble the old-time
shako. It is their only point of re-
semblance to but they would
probably pass for the real thing with
Parkhill.
* * * *
“Molar”: Accidents to horses through
getting their teeth caught. are by no
means rare. Recently at Randwick a
stable lad gave a valuable racehorse a
playful dig in the ribs after saddling
and tightening the girth. The thorough-
bred snapped at the saddler-up ; it missed
the boy, but the bar of the stirrup-iron
became firmly wedged between its teeth.
In a trice the horse was down, and in
the fall its neck was broken.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: One canny Torres
Strait native recently established a profit-
able sideline on Banks Island. He an-
"Any time you're crook, lad , you'll find this bottle at the back of the
cowbail."
nounced that he had made, psychical
contact with a powerful dogai,” or devil,
which malicious spirit seemed intent on
destroying the village unless his wrath
could be appeased by free gifts of fresh
turtle and dugong meats. The villagers
reckoned themselves lucky to get off so
easfly, and nightly these offerings were
left on the roof of the hut of the pourri-
pourn man as the natural go-between,
Regularly they disappeared, presum-
ably to be devoured by the “dogai.”
Only when an unsympathetic official-
dom noticed that the sorcerer began to
wax fat, although he had retired from
normal industry in the communal
M.O.P. diving fleets, was it decided to
call on him at a time when all other
credulous Binghis were well indoors to
avoid contact with the debbil-debbil. The
magic merchant was caught in flagrante
delicto with a juicy joint of dugong steak,
and was removed to the calaboose.
Debbil-debbil left his high priest to
languish in gaol without attempting
reprisals.
* * * *
“San Reno”: There’s one abo. up in
the Kimberleys thoroughly disgusted with
the white man’s ways and the white
man’s logic. He was married to Martha.
A brother died, and Charlie claimed the
widow. The good fathers of the Drys-
dale River Mission pointed out that
monogamy was one of the pillars
of the Christian faith. Nor would
they countenance Charlie’s request for
a divorce. Baffled by such logic
Charlie thereupon fell back on the
line of least resistance. Coaxing the un-
suspicious Martha on a bush walkum he
put her to death as painlessly as pos-
sible, then hastened back to claim his
bride. An unsympathetic white pfeller
Judge awarded him three years.
* * * *
“J. Rankine”: The peculiarities of
language are not the only things that
make horses difficult to handle by persons
other than their owners. There used to
be a half-caste drover in N.Q.; a fine
fellow and a wonderful horseman. Com-
ing down the Flinders short-handed with
a big mob of sheep, Ted picked up a
cook. Cookie, being in the cantankerous
mood that follows a jag, audibly objected
to working for a half-caste, but Ted took
the babbler’s allusions to blackfellow
drovers, abo. superstitions and bone-
pointing in good part. The new-
comer refused Ted’s offers of help
to yoke up—“no blackfellow could
teach him anything about horses.”
When the wagonette hadn’t caught up
to us on the dinner camp I rode back
with Ted to find out what had happened.
We found it still at last night’s camp:
one horse, hobbled and sidelined, was
in the pole; the other, lathered with
sweat, was tied to a tree under which
sat the cook, exhausted and speechless.
The churned-up tracks round the turnout
were evidence of his vain attempts to
yoke-up. Ted quietly led the horse to
the pole. At his “Git over!” it stepped
into place and allowed the traces and
pole strap to be fixed. It was too much
for the cook. He staggered up and, mut-
tering incoherently, fossicked feverishly
among the dead ashes of the fire till he
found a discarded chop bone that the
dogs had missed. With an insane howl he
rushed at the astounded Ted, pointing
the chop bone at him and screeching
“Die, you black , die!”
“Bluey”: Astonished moments, is it?
I went to push my horse over a rail at
Walthro tank (W.Q.). It was a stormy
afternoon, with lightning flying about
and odd scuds of rain. Just as Neddy
was gathering himself together for the
jump, and when I was settling into a
good seat, a flash of lightning ran along
the rail. Horse and I sat back on our
haunches, but slid along the wet ground
“Peer over the edge , people , and you can see the bones of the last fellow
that peered over the edge!"
till he breasted the bar. The sudden-
ness with which he left it was even more
astonishing—to me.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: So white gum rmd
jamwood are easy to cut (B. 30/9/ ’36)?
After that, I’ll take back what I said about
the wife’s first sponge-cake.
Writer knows of no Westralian
timber country better calculated
to bring an enthusiastic clearer
to his bearings than heavy white
gum, with a sprinkling of jam,
an odd salmon-gum and the in-
evitable “dead finish.” A good
man does his acre a day. I’ve
known men from the jarrah
country who broke their axes
and bent their hearts on a patch
of white gum. But then jarrah
is a soft wood. The white gum,
unlike its brother the tuart, isn t
altogether a giant, although it
sometimes attains to five or six
feet in diameter. Like all slow-
growing trees, if is hard and
tough. Jamwood, of course, is
little better than a scrub, gener-
ally speaking, but it is one of
the closest - grained woods
known. “Spud” says his clearer
who cut down 45 acres in
days was unaided. A man with
an imagination like that doesn’t
require help.
•k •!*
“C.H.F.”: Saw two small
paddocks side by side. One had
been stripped of vegetation by
rabbits. The other was a minia-
ture green jungle. The cocky
told me that he kept the rabbits
at bay with tar-soaked binder twine run
around the section on stakes.
“Barangkali”: A recent assertion that
fish are deaf brings to mind the Japanese
fishponds at Changi, a few miles out of
Singapore. Here in several ponds are
different sizes and species of fish netted
in the ocean and placed there for the
amusement of amateur anglers who
might like to hire a rod and line for a
small sum, the price varying in propor-
tion to the size of the fish angled for.
Any fish landed become the property of
the catcher, but not many are caught,
one reason being that they are always
well fed. Feeding takes place three times
daily, and the Jap. calls the fish to the
surface by ringing a hand bell. Immedi-
ately the surface becomes a seething mass
of fish, the ikan having learned to associ-
ate the peals of the bell with dinner-
time.
* * * *
On several days in succes-
sion the whole, skim of cream was
mysteriously removed from a large dish
of milk set in the pantry window. Sus-
picion fell upon a black snake previously
thought to have taken eggs from the
same pantry, and Kronje, the sheep-dog,
was encouraged to stick around outside
the window. One of the men went in to
the pantry to mend the hole in the wire
gauze through which the snake had sup-
posedly entered, and was just in time to
see the very long tongue of Kronje make
a clean sweep of the cream from the
milk.
* * * *
“D.P.L.”: It was at the Wimmera
(Vic.) show. Dad steered his ancient
Liz in among the crowd of other cars.
Coming back later, he saw a chap take
the two-gallon tin from the running-
board of Dad’s Liz and start to empty
it into his own petrol tank. “Aren’t you
going to stop him?” asked his mate.
“Not me,” said Dad ; “he’s welcome to
it. But I’ll get ’im to fill it again at the
tank —that’s Liz’s water ration for the
trip ’ome when she starts to boil!”
* * * *
“Plankton”: That frogs may and do
eat bees I agree, but only as a casual
accident in the course of a very mixed
insectivorous diet. The * rainbow-bird
specialises in bee-eating, and haunts
the neighborhood of apiaries. We have
a species of assassin bug commonly
known as the bee-killer, a name it cer-
tainly has earned. I have observed a
large robber-fly kill a powerful digger-
wasp, and doubtless also many bees fall
victims to these voracious insects. Frogs
must definitely be regarded as creatures
of great value to us as destroyers of im-
mense numbers of injurious pests.
THE UNIVERSAL REMEDY.
From Bourke to Sale, from Darwin to the
Murray,
You’ll find a sovereign remedy, a cure
Effective, swift and simple, for a gravel-rash
or pimple,
While for cuts and sprains and bruises it’s as
sure.
It’s just as good for sheep, too, as for humans.
Is Dobbin hurt? Has Towser got a tick?
On any outback station an immediate appli-
cation
Of Stockholm tar is tipped to “do the trick.”
It mightn’t win a medico’s approval
To see it slapped upon a gaping wound
In the same haphazard fashion as the customary
ration
That is used when Baldy’s hoof has just been
pruned.
Patent ointments, salves and all such other
nostrums
May be all right for use where pavements
are,
But no bush man worth a candle will be found
who cannot handle
Any damage with a splash of Stockholm tar.
Its uses arc diversified and many.
As a hair-restorer once our cook, who’s
green,
On some shearer-wag’s instruction smeared it
on and caused a ruction—
It took weeks to get it off with “karasene.”
But withal the faith in it will never falter;
Whether it’s saddle-soreness or catarrh,
If there’s one thing gives protection against
possible infection,
It’s an ample dab of good old Stockholm tar.
N.SW.
S. W. K.


INCREASE
YOUR LAM3ING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IP your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OP TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO..
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
m
INTERNATIONAL
\iEipzm
TRADE FAIRS
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, . Photo-
graphic, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
The world’s trading centre. More than 8,000
manufacturers from 25 countries exhibit
practically every manufactured article . . .
the newest textiles, novelties, labor-saving
devices, etc., at most attractive prices.
COMMENCES FEB. 28, 1937.
You’ll see, also, the latest advertising and mer-
chandisine ideas • • • ideas that will help to sell
the goods you buy. Join the 200,000 buyers
from all over the world who go to Leipzig twice
each year.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski _ Trading
Marks) available from LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com
missioner in Australia for the Leipzig Tiade Fair ;
L MESSEY Technical Adviser, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
O. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street,
G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEOROE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised -• ••'
Capital Issued • • • • 1,-oMOO
Capita] Paid Up ■ . • • .
Reserve Fund . . •• . • • • •
(Used partly in business and partiv
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Super Wools.
“Murrawong”: A trend of the wool
market that will be welcome to growers
of fine wool is the increased margin in
spinners’ type prices.
There is every indication of a strong
demand and enhanced prices for super-
fines, and growers should cater for the
demand in their own interests by careful
preparation of their clips. Some object
that “picking the eyes out of the clip”
does not pay.
The decision as to when and whether
to make super lines should rest with the
classer. If the material exists in large
enough quantity to ensure five bales with-
out forcing, the lines should be made.
A super type should stand out above the
average AAA line by reason of its style
and enhanced quality ; style is essential.
Often thinness of staple is confused
with fineness, with the result that a better
nourished AAA line beats the so-called
super line by pence.
In many N.S.W. Tableland clips, two
distinct types of fleece are to be found —
a light, fine fleece of good combing
length and a short clothing type. The
present market for the latter wools,
although improved, is not on a par with
the demand for length of staple, and it
is advisable to keep them apart and treat
them individually.
Brand the short wools AAA and AA
if two lines are warranted. There may
be a proportion of heavy, beady, black-
tipped fleeces. Make the longer wools
AAA COM and AA COM.
The super wools will be drawn from
the. COM types, but here again there may
be a range in length, and it may be pos-
sible to get one line of shafty superfine
stylish fleeces and another line not quite
so long as the average of the AAA COM,
yet longer than the AAA.
Brand the first SUPER COM and the
latter SUPER. Do not press the bales
heavily. Keep them between 2201 b. and
2501 b. and they will open up to advan-
tage on the show floor.
These lines may have, to be built up
and drawn from every flock in the clip.
Some flocks may yield only a few super
fleeces. Therefore, it is advisable that the
classer knows the station sheep, or he
may become discouraged early and dis-
continue the lines or leave himself short
of requirement's for the main catalogue.
Wool Records.
“Granova”: Most woolgrowers keep
a record of their total clips and the
average weight of wool per head, but
the value of this is restricted unless a
check is kept on the yield of separate
flocks.
A properly set out wool-book should
show the results of any change in breed-
ing or management, and it should be pos-
sible to calculate accurately the value of
pasture improvement and supplementary
feeding.
A Temora (N.S.W.) grazier decided to
keep a flock of six-year-old ewes another
season and obtain another lamb from
them. His wool-book revealed the mis-
take he made, as the ewes’ wool yield
dropped by 31b. per head. On the same
property, the weaners cut an extra lib.
per head because they were given a small
ration of grain during lean periods.
Add a column to the shed wool-book
and, opposite each bale, record the flock
from which it came. Often it is not
practicable to clean out all the bins when
changing from one flock to the next.
Make a note of the fraction of a bale left
in each bin. Adjustments can be made
later in the permanent wool-book. When
calculating flock averages do not forget
to take off the weight of packs.
A few notes on the season and the
treatment given to the various flocks
should be logged each year.
Lamb-marking Again.
“B-gar”: The time involved stops
graziers searing the tail after cutting, and
it is doubtful if the procedure is worth
while. I refuse to believe that loss of
blood causes the percentage of deaths
“Corriedale” (B. 14/10/’36) implies.
Tetanus is responsible for most deaths
“It DOES seem a bit awkward at first, sir!”
shortly after marking, and the disease is
easily contracted in dirty yards, especi-
ally when freshly marked lambs are
allowed to remain therein for any
length of time.
Lambs have a habit of lying down
after marking. It is then tetanus germs
take effect. For this reason alone, mark-
ing in paddock brakes is a sound prac-
tice. Here the lambs can be dropped
overboard on to practically germ-free
pastures. Apart from tending to coun-
teract disease, mothering troubles are re-
duced by the marking-in-the-brake sys-
tem.
There are graziers who would not
dream of marking their lambs on the
same ground twice; others use the same
yards for years, and wonder why num-
bers of lambs marked do not answer the
roll-call at shearing time.
Some yards never see a rake. Results
after each lamb-marking are painfully
obvious.
Fat Lambs or Wool-cutters.
“K.Mc.”: Complaints are still coming
in from exporters and from Smithfield
about the low quality of our fat lambs.
There was a comparatively good demand
for fat lambs in the slump years when
wool, wheat and other products were
flat, and growers and departmental in-
structors became feverish to emulate
Maoriland’s success in the trade. With-
out previous experience or knowledge of
what constitutes a competitive standard
of export lamb, many farmers and gra-
ziers turned to this line of production.
Land and ewes eminently suitable for
woolgrowing were expected to yield fat
lambs of equal quality by the simple,
process of mating the ewes to British-
bred rams. Exporters attempted to fill
their orders from the supplies of good
to nondescript animals available.
The first essential is good pastures: the
most successful fat-lamb growers pas-
ture-improve their paddocks. The next
is having deep-bodied, roomy crossbred
ewes. For every success with merino
mothers there have been many failures.
In N.S.W. there is a marked shortage
of dams suitable for fat-lamb purposes,
and it is suggested that owners of large-
framed western ewes should cross them
with Romney or Border Leicester rams
and sell the ewe progeny to fat-lamb
breeders.
Those lacking both suitable pastures
and breeding stock for fat-lamb produc-
tion will find that wool and wool-cutters
are more profitable.
Local consumption and export now
take half the annual crop of lambs, and
while this continues there is likely to be
a good demand for young wool-cutters.
At the moment agents report that young
wethers of this type are very scarce.
Pastures Increase Returns.
“Rom Ney”: Pasture improvement
means better returns from sheep, as
proved on Warrangong, near Koora-
watha (N.S.W.). Improvement has con-
trolled skeleton weed, eradicated red
grass, and increased carrying capacity
and wool yield.
Fifteen years ago the wool return was
an average of B£lb. for grown sheep;
last year the average was more than 101 b.
a head. In 1920-24, the 9500 sheep aver-
aged 61,4941 b. of wool a year. During
the next five years, 4800 acres was top-
dressed annually with lcwt. of super, per
acre, and 11,996 sheep averaged 89,6651 b.
In 1930-34, 11,567 sheep averaged
86,5851 b. Last year, 9685 sheep gave
74,0271 b., and for the first 10 months of
this year 11,400 yielded 96,4621 b. Carry-
ing capacity therefore increased by 2000,
and yield by 21b. per head.
A paddock of sub. clover and lucerne,
top-dressed each year, grew too well,
and there were losses from bloat. It
was ploughed and cultivated six or seven
times to destroy the clover, and phalaris
was sown last April. The clover is still
dominant, and heavy stocking is being
tried.
A paddock of 168 acres grew wheat
until skeleton weed appeared. It was
ploughed in August, 1935, and sown with
31b. of lucerne and lewt. of super, per
acre later. Since December, 240 ewes
have been on it continuously. They
dropped 97 p.c. lambs, which, sold, aver-
aged 341 b. dressed, with seven rejects.
The skeleton has almost vanished.
A red-grass paddock was ploughed
last December, worked twice and sown
with lib. Wimmera rye, 31b. lucerne,
lib. sub. clover, and 901 b. super, per acre
in June. Cost worked out at £1 per
acre, the red grass is gone, and there is
splendid pasture.
Warrangong has 6200 acres —840 cul-
tivation, 250 cutting lucerne, 5100 graz-
ing. The 5100 acres is carrying 11,400
sheep and lambs, 300 cattle, 35 horses.
Ample conserved fodder assists the
good work.
Bracken Poisoning.
“Agamemnon”: There have been big
cattle losses in Queensland and N.S.W.
coastal areas from bracken-fern poison-
ing.
The first symptoms are watery dis-
charges from the nose and a high tem-
perature. Blood may be passed from
the nose, and the animals frequently
show intense, bloodstained scouring.
Post-mortem shows all the internal
organs to be extremely congested, and
there, are many haemorrhages, which may
lead to the disease being mistaken for
anthrax.
Cattle do not readily eat bracken;
therefore they are most likely to con-
tract the disease, when pasture has been
eaten off and only fern is available.
Bracken is fatal only in the young,
green-frond stage. Cattle of all ages
may be affected, but the trouble is most
common in calves and yearlings.
The poisoning is slow and will not
appear until the cows have been eating
fern for over a fortnight. Deaths may
even occur several weeks after the
animals have, been moved to clean pas-
ture.
Good Farming Pays.
“Nabawa”: Protracted dry weather
has compelled revision of wheat-crop
estimates for N.S.W., a couple of bushels
an acre being knocked off. The season
has found the indifferent farmer out, and
proved the good man. Crops on good,
well-worked fallow are. standing up well;
those roughed in are throwing in the
towel.
Frosts did some damage in the central
west. Ford and Baringa are pushing
Nabawa for pride of place. Early-sown
should finish well, but late-sown are
very doubtful. Geeralying and Gular
seem to be doing well, but there is not
much of either.
Recent rain in west and south was
useful, but more is needed. The north-
west, which two months ago looked like
having a bumper harvest, is in a bad way.
Cures for Contagious Abortion.
“Silky Bag”: Lately claims for several
vaccines or bactericides as curative for
cows affected with Brucella abortus have
(i Continued on page 24.)


jHffljf
Si
mm
mm.
■mm.
mi
rrS;
■K
11
n
■
■
HI
m
■
-T
■
Mm
■
• 3RK
i m
n
m
r
■
■
i
!
tv
. ;
I
1
n
IS
■
#
li
Wm
I
tv
• 1
1
■
1
H
I
■
■
’V
■
Hn
> . •
M
\
■
■
an
■
■■
'
H
U
m
m
ii
- ■-
ss?
*
w ' /{'■ /*£
MSI
a
' ,« ■/ : :.f;.
I n
R
Bnn
<
■ -
1 " : mm^
;
- -4;
m hi
H#
H
Rh
■ l
■ i
k
w
BEALE
model V.57.W.
(BcdJt&hij. (RjkjlwgJi without "£" oh “Q" (BaUshisa
THE NEW BEALE BIJOU
Not merely a new piano, but an entirely
new type of piano. Though of ideal
dimensions for the modern home or
apartment the Bijou has a tone equal
in quality and volume to any Baby
Grand.
e
Constructed to give years of trouble-free service.
This 5-valve battery operated dual-wave Superheterodyne is the ideal set for country
use.
Unlike the general run of battery receivers which are equipped with dry "B" and "C"
Batteries for grid and plate potentials, the construction of the Model VS7W eliminates
dry batteries and is operated on the ordinary 6-volt storage battery. There are no
expensive dry batteries that require constant replacement.
This is the first receiver of its kind to run on such low current consumption, viz., .9
amperes instead of the usual 1.l to 1.2 amperes.
The Model VS7W is endowed with remarkable sensitivity on both broadcast (local) and
short-wave (world-wide) bands.
The sturdy chassis employs the latest circuit design incorporating new double purpose
valves and full automatic volume control. The full vision edge-lit airplane dial is
equipped with a new automatic current-saving dial lighting switch.
The first high-grade Battery Receiver not employing "B" Batteries to be presented.
This Model may be obtained in two exclusive cabinet designs—
BEALE RADIO AND PIANOS
BEALE and COMPANY LTD.
177 PITT ST., SYDNEY
OPP. BANK CORNER, HUNTER ST. WEST. NEWCASTLE


77ie'^uIIeiz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
is*
acr
s'c:
Price 257-
black OR BROWN.
ABBEY SHOES
HAVE
THE EXTRA WEAR
OF A SECOND PAIR.
TF you are not already the' proud wearer
of Abbey Shoes, don t hesitate, but
change over now.
The shoe illustrated is an example of
quality footwear for the careful man.
Made of high-grade Black or Brown Calf,
with a pleasing appearance, it answers all
demands for a better shoe at a lower price.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf, 25/-; Brown Calf, 25/-.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE ST., 224 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
W.A. 53.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish fo succeed
—THINK OF
m
S&
IF
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
”S3) 2 TH3ia
ainios
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERY V/HERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kino St.. Sydney
20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
EVERLASTING WATCH
Unbreakable —— Shockproof
Non-magnetic and Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Stand a Knock or Fall.
174
12
17
10
2
R.D.L
LEVER
3
9
Ur
/
7
5
POST
FREE
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Ixmg, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.D. Wonder Watches, so
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Everlasting- Watch as the acme
of Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
R.DX. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1925 and
are still supreme.
Recommended for Farmers, Tram, Kail,
Police and Businessmen.
The R.D.D. LEVER is everlasting because it is
built of standardised interchangeable parts. As
one part wears, so it can be replaced at a very-
low cost, making the life of the watch indefinite,
everlasting. It is also shockproof (virtually
unbreakable), having special shock absorbing
features introduced into the expert construction
of the movement.
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket Size, Luminous Dial . . 20/-
Lady’s Service Wristlet Size.. 20/-
Gent.’s Large Service Wristlet, 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small
round nickel case), Luminous, 25/-
Gent.'s Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Luminous, 30/-
Gent.'s Dress Wristlet (9ct.
gold-filled cushion case),
Luminous 45/-
Lady’s Gold-filled and Solid
Gold Dress Wristlets,
(jewelled) 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Obtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. R. Dixon Fong-, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
366 V Bourke St., Melb., C.l, Vic.
QUALITY...
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
R
C2I—FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT, made of
fine leather. Size when folded, x 54 x 2i
inches. Containing W. Jno. Baker "brand
Razor, Shaving Brush, Shaving Soap and
Container, Tooth Brush and Container. Hair
Brush, Comb and Mirror, 50/- complete.
::::::
RAZORS IN FUAT CASE, best
Hollow Ground, with Xylonite
in Leatherette-covered Case.
Price, 31/6.
C4 —Fitted with two Black-handled Razors.
21/6.
C3—TWO
quality
Handles,
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
W. JNO. BAKER, LTD.,
3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
been advanced. The most recent re-
search, however, indicates that there is
no definite officially-known cure.
Contagious abortion is one of the
trickiest diseases. It is not pathological
to the cow —only to the foetal membranes.
The cow expels the foetus simply to pre-
serve herself against ensuing toxic poison-
ing. As for a cow developing immunity
against the germ, the disease is unique.
So far as her own health goes, there is
no reason why a cow should put up anti-
bodies, which would be the case if the
disease were pathogenic to herself.
It is the absence of these antibodies
(which are the basis of successful work
on immunity) that is baffling.
Pleuro-pneumonia, for instance, is pre
ventible by immunising healthy ani-
mals with injections of live organisms.
Antibodies are immediately put up in
the blood to counteract or neutralise the
harmful organisms.
When a live culture of Brucella abortus
is inoculated, however, it merely gives
the animal contagious abortion at a more
favorable moment than it is usually
picked up. Some animals abort after-
wards, once or twice, and later develop
a type of immunity, but only to actual
abortion.
They are still fully infected, and are
possible disease-carriers.
This is not true bacterial immunity,
such as should be secured by vaccines.
It is only a form of resistance to the bad
effects of Brucella on the membranes.
Full immunity is unknown in the
absence of antibodies. Bactericides able
to kill the germ at its sites in the body
are necessarily lethal to the cow also.
the sum total of the guaranteed work
to date is that control and elimination
of reactors to the agglutination test are
the only sure way of attacking the disease.
It must be remembered that this is so
because few cows, once infected, ever
lose the germ.
Feeding Concentrates.
“Nothung”: Bran, brewer’s grains,
cottonseed meal and oilcakes are good
supports to the dairy rations, but should
be used with discrimination.
Wheaten bran is high in nitrogenous
ratio (1 protein to carbohydrates),
and therefore should not clash in its
proportion with lucerne —also rich in
nitrogen (1 protein to 3 1-3 carbo-
hydrates).
But, as with lucerne, bran is a good
standby to balance up the ration of ordi-
nary grass and crops.
It is good with oaten chaff and maize
and sorghum. By a ration if 301 b. maize
ensilage, 151 b. lucerne hay, 61b. bran and
corn, the deficiency of lime in bran
is made up with the lucerne hay, etc.
Also, phosphorus is well represented
in bran, and, further, bran stimulates the
milk flow. As an alternative to bran, use
dried brewer’s grains, which are 8 p.c.
richer in protein than bran, though less
rich in carbohydrates.
Oilcakes should be fed at not more
than lib. to 31b. a day. These are more
fattening. Linseed cake or linseed meal,
of course, is best for calf-rearing. Inci-
dentally, in deciding on rations, remem-
ber that the most digestible food is maize
grain, next bran, then, green oats, barley,
green maize, grass and so on to oaten
hay and sorghum ensilage.
Rhodes Grass.
“Sandy”: When planting Rhodes grass
fire the scrub when the weather is cloud-
ing up for rain, and then broadcast the
seed, 151 b. to the acre.
Given showery weather, the grass will
seed in six to eight weeks, but should be
grazed as soon as it looks able to stand
eating off.
In the recent drought on the S.Q. coast
our Rhodes has done better than pas-
palum or Kikuyu.
Some farmers add paspalum seed, but
it is questionable if it pays, as paspalum
gradually works into the stand every
year.
In clean country plough a furrow,
plant the cuttings, and harrow.
Most forest country, however, is stony
and log-strewn. The best way then is to
cut sods Ift. square from an established
stand and plant at 20ft. intervals through-
out the patch. For a good strike, this
must be done in rainy weather.
Rhodes can be sown till the middle of
February.
Silage-making Experience.
“Rusticus”: Experience in three years
of silage making has taught me one or
two things which may help others. The
main thing is to cut the pasture while it
is still growing, and before many seeds
have formed. To leave it later is to risk
a day or two of hot, dry winds, and this
can do more damage than is generally
realised in lowering feed value.
Dairymen in the s.-e. of S.A. are. slowly
adopting this centuries-old method of
fodder conservation, and practically all
experience the same difficulty as I have
had in getting sufficient growth of pas-
ture while the weather is still damp and
cool.
A method that proved successful this
year was to close the paddock a month
earlier than previously and apply an
extra hundredweight of super, to the acre
at time of closing. This made. 2cwt. to
the acre this year. The growth of clovers
was prolific.
I found that, with the earlier cutting
this year, the two stacks which were
built upon each alternate day sank much
more rapidly than when the material
was not so moist. This has done away
with much of the high pitching of the
heavy green feed.
Another noticeable point was that the
excessive moisture formed quite a pool
around the stacks, and the outside edges
of the stack were fairly soaked for days.
Last year there was two or three feet
of dry material which, although it could
hardly be classed as waste, was of very
low feeding value.
Chemicals in Farm Use.
“Stump Jump”: If “J. Want” (B.
7/10/’36) meant to rule out copper sul-
phate and turpentine as farm chemicals,
he is too drastic.
The former is the constituent of one
of our best all-round sheep drenches
against twisted wire worm, and with
mustard is a fine worm-drench for cattle.
Even in licks, when it is mixed in
fairly large proportions in an occasional
batch for quick use, it does have some
effect. Again, an ounce of bluestone
mixed with mash for 100 to 200 fowls is
a good poultry worm cure.
Turpentine is probably the handiest
farm remedy against' bots in horses, given
preferably in a pint of linseed oil at the
rate of loz. to 20z., according to size,
and after a night’s starving.
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: When concreting a
set of calf- or pigyards, build the drain
outside the pens. In this way, the risk
of spreading infections from sick animals,
otherwise likely, is cut down to a mini-
mum.
“C.V.S.”: See that the boards of the
top box of the wool press are smooth.
While reclassing a clip in the store re-
cently I found small pieces of black
wool in every bale, though there were
only three black fleeces in the clip.
Rough, splintery boards catching the
wool might account for this. Also, if a
clip is to be reclassed, put the fleece
wool on top of any bar bales, as this
facilitates handling of the oddments.
“Dimon”: Shelled maize cobs or
cores can be put to many emergency
uses. The small end makes a stopper
for bottles and waterbags or plug for
the keg, and is a quick and ready stopper
for mouse holes in bags of grain. A 3in.
or 4in. length makes a good file handle,
and a thick butt, scooped out, with a
piece of hollow cane or an elderberry
stem inserted in a sidehole bored with a
penknife, makes a sweet-smoking pipe.
Two cobs held together are brush and
currycomb for the plough horses. The
cobs also have fodder value. One year
tons of them were shipped from the
Richmond River (N.S.W.) to be ground
and mixed with meal and molasses to
feed starving stock.
“Tally”: At Attunga (N.S.W.) seven
pet crossbred ewes had 22 lambs—six
lots of triplets and one of quadruplets.
All but one or two are living. I reared
the extras, leaving two with each ewe.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
r
m
iiiilt
m
in
fw|
Miiiil
■
1 i
i
SI!
m
■
■
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Boy secures Government job after study-
ing for seven years.”— Brisbane ‘‘Telegraph.”
Well, he has earned the rest, anyway.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Marriage changes a man’s status.”
- —Conference speaker.
That’s right—he’s the proposer before
and the seconder afterwards.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A censor is a man who knows more
than he thinks other people ought to.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Money spoils human beings,’ says a
writer.”
Being a writer, he is not, of course,
speaking from personal experience.
4* 4 1 4*
“Petitioner in divorce said that his wife was
always crying.”
She must have discovered the secret of
perpetual emotion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hats made of paper are the latest.” — "Age.”
One guess—who’ll wear the foolscap
ones?
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Value of Vowels.
“ ‘Australians seem to be in danger of losing
two of the most beautiful vowel sounds in the
English language,’ said Mr. Edmonds.”
— "Herald.”
“Personally,” said Professor Bottle-
tops, K. 8., “I find in my own
circle of friends down at the
Dog and Duck that it’s three
vowel sounds that appear to
have lost any attraction—in
fact, they are as dead as the
dodo. When I myself try to
impress upon my friends the
importance of observing their
full value they gaze at me
like men in a trance.”
“And those three vowels
are?”
“IOU,” snapped the pro-
fessor. “What the devil did
you think I was talking
about?”
Me.
“If these young hikers carried with them a
couple of boxes of confetti they could, if lost,
retrace their steps.”
— “S. M. Herald” correspondent.
But usually after confetti has been
thrown it is impossible to retrace one’s
steps!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Snakes at Canberra.” — “S.M.H.”
It is certainly news when anything gets
a wriggle on in Canberra.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The surest Way to tie yourself in a
knot is with a string of racehorses.
•J*
“ ‘That beer-drinking is cooling in summer
is an error,’ says a doctor.”
Still, it’s a popular error.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A single cow can be made to pay.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
And so can married ones.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In Melbourne the average number of hours
of sunshine on a September day is 57.”
— “S.M.H."
This makes amends for the other 11
months.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Realism.
The director was keen that “Savage
Hades” should be the picture of the year.
Neither expense nor subordinates’ feel-
ings had been spared in the preliminary
work, and now 2000 painted and be-
decked natives had been hired as the
extras for the corroboree scene of the
breath-taking climax. Rehearsal after
rehearsal had failed to satisfy him.
“Niggers’ time’s cheaper than cellu-
loid,” he grunted, and set the sweating
assistants to drive the natives to it again.
He adjourned for a siesta between re-
views. An usual shoutirig aroused him,
and he ran out of his tent.
“By the Lord Harry,” he screamed as
long lines of yelling, savage demons
rushed down on him with levelled spears
and hoots of ferocious joy, “you’ve got
it, boys! Hold it! Camera!”
The machine ground away at his bid-
ding, and the magnificent barbaric scene
was recorded as the actors drew nearer
at breakneck speed.
Then a white assistant dashed in from
the flanks.
“Look out!” he gasped. “Those ain ;
our niggers!”
Mac.
é
ê
“There is nothing as slender as a strand of
spider’s web that will carry such a strain in
proportion.”— Nature note.
What about the taxpayer’s purse?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
China.
lll.— lts History.
The reigning house in China during
the 4000 years of its imperialism was
known as a dynasty ( Dy : prob. abbrev.
of Din Kee Dy, meaning really, and
nasty, meaning what it sounds like).
Thus a dynasty became really nasty, es-
pecially with pretenders who had aspira-
tions to start new ones.
The Chinese Empire was founded by
the Chow dynasty, and was foundered
by the Manchu dynasty. The Chow
dynasty was most unpopular owing to
the fierce agitation worked up by the
Pure Language Association, which
deemed the adoption of a slang name
detrimental to Chinese dignity. The
people rose and threatened to drive the
Emperor Bal Lee Hoo out, but when he
smartly pointed out that the only con-
veyance in the land had a bent axle, arid
that the Court horse was spavined, they
retired to think it out. By the time
they grasped the significance of the re-
mark its original meaning was lost
through being handed down from genera-
tion to generation, and the dynasty had
petered out by effluxion of time.
The succeeding usurper-emperors had
a She after their names, thus: Yew
Chaou She, Suy-jin She, etc.; and
the practice has been followed ever
since. In fact, historians aver that the
first known Chinese man in the mists
of antiquity had a she after his name.
The Gee dynasty was started by the
Emperor Obi Gee, who decreed that each
succeeding member of his house should
have an additional name preceding the
family one. Thus his eldest son was
named Soo Gee; his grandson, Ware
Soo Gee ; his great-grandson, Yu Ware
Soo Gee ; his great-great-grandson, Soe
Yu Ware Soo Gee, and so on. The
dynasty ended three hundred years later
when the reigning emperor committed
suicide by deliberately spelling himself
to death following the signing of a
bunch of fan-tan IOUs.
It is recorded by the celebrated his-
torian Szez Hyu that immediately the
great Mongolian ruler Kubla Khan
assumed the throne he instructed the
Court builder, Sai 80, to build a stately
pleasure-dome at Xanadu, near where
the sacred river Alph ran through meas-
ureless caverns to a sunless sea. He did
this so that Coleridge might have no
difficulty in getting a suitable rhyme for
his poem. This considerate action so
impressed Marco Polo, who was doing
the Orient at the time on a winter cruise,
that he declared the Chinese to be the
most polite people on earth, and we
have believed it ever since.
In 1894 occurred the famous Shypoo
incident. The Emperor Hei Hoo Ayu
tried to light his pipe with a box of
Japanese matches, and after 10 duds the
eleventh fizzed up and set fire to his
moustache, badly burning his knees.
China, insulted, went to war with Japan.
Her navy went straight into action, but
the first broadside blew the side out of
the gunboat and the war was over, the
army having meanwhile run out of um-
brellas and bulldog buttons.
The last real ruler of the Manchu
dynasty was the Dowager Empress Tsz'e
An, who encouraged the Boxer revolt.
The Boxers, punch-drunk, rose against
the importers, who they contended got
the best cut of the gates. In the ensuing
all-in the Boxers took the count after
nearly going the distance. The Empress
Tsz’e An was survived by her daughter
San Fairy An, who afterwards became
a French subject when Dr. Sun Yal Sen
created the republic.
S. W. K.
Idealism.
Over the table gazing,
Where grandly we have dined,
Your eyes, with beauty dazing,
Inspire my glowing mind.
Oh, if this moment only
Were made eternity,
This cafe corner lonely
Were paradise to me!
Ah! could it last for ever,
How deeply I would thrill!
Moreover, love, I never
Would have to pay the bill!
T.W.N.
Extenuations.
“Undoubtedly these murderers are rather the
victims of social circumstances than the brutal
culprits they seem to be. Some of them are
lovers of birds and of flowers.”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
Bullchin was like that —not a bad chap
really, although he did murder a few
“All right, then; hop over ’ere an
see if YOU can stop it”
people, including his wife, his mother-in-
law (which hardly counts) and his uncle.
In any case, he didn’t mean to murder
uncle. He mistook uncle, for father.
Of course, some people criticised him
for kicking the old man to death, but he
hadn’t meant to do that —someone had
hidden the axe. Besides, if the people
he killed had only given him the money
he wanted he wouldn’t have killed them
unless they had irritated him in some
other way. So it was clearly their fault
that he was a murderer.
He showed his good nature in his first
act after murdering the old uncle. In-
stead of keeping all for himself he im-
mediately shouted for his pals.
He was a lover of flowers, too. He
had a bed of them in his backyard which
he tended with loving care ; his wife’s
body was found under it. The police,
of course, made out that the flowers were
only a screen for the murder ; but every
humanitarian realised it was just his
beautiful thought.
When the death penalty was altered to
imprisonment for life he wanted to do
some gardening in gaol; but after he
tried to brain a warder with a spade they
callously denied him that enjoyed recrea-
tion. It is terrible to think that such
unfeeling officials have the handling of a
sensitive chap like Bullchin, with his love
of flowers and all that —so plainly merely
a victim of social circumstances.
H. M.
The Elite.
Mr. Brown-Jones paused before the
big, opulent-looking car with an air of
smug, proprietary satisfaction.
Mr. Brown-Jones, as his two daughters
languidly seated themselves in the roomy
body of the vehicle and leaned luxuri-
ously in the comfortably staggered seat
at the back, knew well the joyous music
that rings in the ears of the successful
man —the man who has tried many
times to get on and, after early failures,
has succeeded.
Taking his seat at the wheel, an elabo-
rate expression of unconcern on his face,
he was well aware of the glances of
envy and unwillingly conceded admira-
tion for the vehicle.
He found great satisfaction in having
that battery of eyes trained on him.
With leisurely abandon he selected a
cigar from his case and, lighting it,
puffed out rich streams of aromatic
smoke.
There was a brief pause ; then Brown-
Jones nodded affably at the watching
throng and gripped the wheel tightly.
Slowly at first, then gathering speed, the
glittering red car drew away.
ë
DOS.


Another Fine Australian Novel:—
I SOLD
MY HORSES
BY ERIC LOWE
ė
My grandfather died, and l never knew now ;
He left me six horses to drive in the plough
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
I sold my horses, and 1 bought a little cow,
But when I went to milk her 1 didn’t know how.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
I sold my cow, and I bought a little cat;
The wicked little thing on the mantelpiece she sat.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
I sold my cat, and I bought a little mouse ;
Its tail caught fire and it burnt down the house.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
Chapter X.
(i Continued .)
S r '“ v*.i»T|T was the first school term no athletics, no
g football and though Robin was training
for the boxing championships he had little
incentive to work hard, for with Boyd Free-
2g, \ man out of the way there was no one left
at school who could even make a fight of it
with him. His school work he could not take
seriously. He was going wearily over the same old
way that he had travelled the previous year, without
enthusiasm, almost with a savage hope that he would
be plucked.
Barney Case, physically splendid, mentally slow,
had suggested again and again that they should slip
out together some night after prep. His girl had a
friend, he said, who would come along at any time.
Robin liked Barney Case. He was very like
Tibby Morgan, only much bigger and not half so
quick-witted. He was everlastingly getting into
trouble through his clumsiness, and with childlike
faith would turn to someone, usually Robin, to help
him out. He was sitting for the final exams, with
Robin, but everyone knew that he had no possible
chance of passing.
One hot, still night Robin in a black mood went
out with Barney Case to the bridge. The two girls
met them on the bank of the river. Barney promptly
kissed them both, then, turning to Robin, he said “Vol,
this is Ada —she’s yours.”
They sat together, the four of them, on the river-
bank. Robin felt awkward and morose. He didn’t
know what to say, what to do. Beside him Barney
and the other girl were kissing and giggling ; in a
little while they got up and walked away, disappearing
in the darkness beneath the bridge.
“Cheer up!”’ Ada said. “This isn’t a funeral.”
“I’m sorry,” said Robin.
He wished now he hadn’t come. The whole
adventure seemed flat, lacking excitement, sordid.
Feeling he ought to do something, he put his arm
around the girl’s waist.
“Aren’t you going to kiss me?” she asked.
He kissed her, without life, and she returned his
kiss —hard, recklessly, again and again.
Unhappy, savage with himself, he embraced her
roughly.
“Here,” she said, “don’t be a fool! I won’t run
away.”
ROBIN sat on the bank, waiting for Barney Case to
come back. Beside him Ada was telling some
story about an aunt in hospital who’d had an operation
for something or other, but Robin wasn’t listening.
He sat brooding with his elbows on his knees, watching
the dull reflection of the town lights on the water.
The girl beside him might have been in another
world —he had forgotten her existence. Then into his
mind from down the years came Boyd’s young voice,
scornful, withering:
“That’s the sort of a damned fool you are.
Always so keen on thinking about yourself”...
ROBIN became aware that prep, was over. The boys
were streaming out and Mr. Stone was walking
down the hall between the rows of desks. He stopped
by Robin’s desk.
“You want to stay back for a while, I expect,
Stewart. What are you doing? Would you like to
work in my study?”
Robin said “I promised to give Case a bit of a
hand for an hour.”
“What? Do you really mean, Case, that you’re
going to stay out of bed for an hour and work ?” ..
Barney grinned sheepishly, and Mr. Stone passed
on down tlje room. At the door he looked round,
hesitated, then, saying “Good night” rather abruptly,
he walked out of the room.
“You idiot!” Robin said. “How the hell did you
get into a mess like that?”
Barney took off his tuuic. “They're tarring the
bridge,” he said.
“But when were you there?”
“Just before prep.”
“Good Lord! —in broad daylight.”
“Oh, no one can see under the bridge.” Barney
grinned. “Asa matter of fact old Goofy Barnes
came over on the way to school. He must have been
carrying the history papers for Friday’s exam, and
dropped a couple. They floated down to me. I’m
going to do a wonderful history paper on Friday. Do
you want to see it?”
“No, thanks. I know the period backwards, and
I know just what Goofy will set. I’m going up to
Matron for a glass of milk —I’ll bring you one, and
I’ll see if I can get something to take that damned
tar off.”
THEY were busy cleaning the coat when Dick Raw-
■ don, the school captain, came into the room. He
walked over and sat on Case’s desk, swinging his legs.
“You’re a prize idiot, Barney,” he said. “How
you get away with it I don’t know. I expect you’ll go
blundering on through life, escaping shipwreck and
massacre and God knows what —simply because you
haven’t enough sense to know you’re in the middle
of them. I expect you don’t realise now that you’ve
just missed hell by inches.”
“Don’t I! Haven’t I been keeping a steady front
to Rocky Stone for the last hour?”
“And much good it did you, you poor sap! Rocky
came to me after prep.”
“But he couldn’t have seen, Dick! And if he had
he wouldn’t have known how the mark came there.”
“He did see it —and if he had been any other
master in the school you’d have been out on your
pink ear to-morrow. It’s no good saying they wouldn’t
have known what the mark was —you’d have been
asked to explain, and you know damned well you
couldn’t have thought up any excuse. You’d have
blundered and mucked things up and given yourself
away. Rocky knew it and didn’t ask you—and never
will. He’s left it to me, and I don’t quite know what
to do. You’re too big to sock, and I’m hardly the one
to sock you. What’s more, I’ve an uncomfortable
feeling that Rocky knew I wasn’t. He’s scared me
ę
Chapter XI.
“FmHOUGH I speak with the tongues
||| of men and of angels, and have not
charity, I am become as sounding
brass, or a tinkling cymbal”...
Rawdon stood at the lectern, reading
the New Testament lesson. He stood very straight,
his hands grasping the wing-tips of the carven eagle
that supported the Bible. His clear young voice,
ringing through the chapel, filled Robin with a
religious fervor, a surge of ecstatic joy which would
have carried him through fire and torture. It was
only in the last few months that religion had become
a necessary part of Robin’s life.
THE thought of God as a living Being had never had
a very prominent place in his mind. His mother,
he believed, was sincerely religious, but what Donald’s
beliefs were he had never troubled to imagine. The
only place of worship within driving distance of
Malwa was a small weatherboard Church of England,
surrounded by gravestones, ten miles away. Though
both he himself and his wife were Presbyterians,
Donald, as a matter of policy, went there regularly
once a month, and the hard-working clergyman who
visited it was always entertained at Malwa on the
Sunday night following the monthly service. Donald
was evidently not rabidly sectarian, for Robin had
been sent to a Church of England school and had
been confirmed there.
Robin’s first ideas of the personality of God
had been gained from a nurse. He was, it seemed, a
very terrible Person who delighted in punishment,
could see everything you did, and was ever ready to
pounce on the unwary. The sins that merited the
severest penalties were apparently lying and blas-
The People in the Story
é


phemy. Having as yet discovered no need to lie,
Robin was little concerned with truth or falsehood in
others, but he knew all about blasphemy, and often
wondered what happened to people like Chris
Bennett, who drove the Malwa team, when God got
them alone. Even his father had been heard to mutter
“Good God! ” but this, Alice said, was not bad
blasphemy and permissible sometimes in moments of
stress to adults. It was apparently far worse —an
utterly unforgivable sin—to take the name of God the
Son in vain. But Alice couldn’t tell him when he
asked just what would happen if he blasphemed
against the Saviour.
It was all very confusing, and Robin decided to
find out for himself. Saddling Pie, he rode down to
the plain paddock, commencing what was probably
the boldest and most enterprising act of his life. At
the gate leading into the paddock he had a great
battle with himself, but, finally deciding that he could
not expose his dearly-loved pony to the wrath of
God, he left her tied to the fence and strode out
bravely towards the centre of the treeless plain. He
intended to take no unfair advantage from cracks and
corners but to give God all the elbow-room He
needed. Long before he reached the centre of the
paddock he regretted his quixotic action in leaving
Pie behind. He was really terribly afraid, and the
little mare would have been a great comfort to him.
Reaching the centre of the paddock, he felt he
had better get it over as quickly as possible, and,
standing very straight, with clenched fists, he shouted,
putting as much challenging insolence as possible into
his voice, “Jesus Christ /”
Then he shut his eyes and waited. He waited
quite a long time, but nothing happened. After a
while he opened his eyes again, slowly at first, and
then wide, looking around with a growing feeling of
relief. Everything was just as it had been ; the sun
was shining bright and warm, a light wind was
shaking the plain grass, Malwa homestead still stood
secure and comforting in the distance, and across the
plain he could see Pie waiting patiently beside the
gate. He wished now that he had brought her with
him ; it was a long walk for short legs back across
the paddock.
His first thought was that God had been caught
napping, but he decided that this could not be, for
he had not moved secretly, but had given the Almighty
every opportunity for seeing and hearing. It must be,
ihen, that God was not the terrible Being depicted
by Alice, but a tolerant, understanding Person —“like
Uncle Brand.” Robin felt very friendly towards Him,
and grateful, and determined to show his gratitude by
not being rude, and especially never taking in vain the
name of the Saviour. It is a curious thing that from
this moment throughout his whole life—long after
religion had ceased to have any spiritual significance
for him —blasphemous utterances made him uncom-
fortable and resentful.
George Pollock, the publican, was leaning over
the gate when Robin got back to Pie.
“Hallo, sonny!” he said. “What mischief have
you been up to?” and was quite unprepared for the
serious reply “It’s all right, George—God knows.”
THE chapel services became fraught with holy
■ mystery to Robin, and prayer was a real and
glorious meeting with the Creator. Even the hymns
which he had bellowed for years without thought
took on a new significance.
As pants the hart for cooling streams
When heated in the chase,
So longs my soul, O Lord, for Thee
And Thy refreshing Grace.
He burnt with a passionate longing, as the red
deer thirsted. He believed with all his soul that he
had found God and that God was Beauty.
With the realisation of this belief he acquired a
new purpose in life. His one aim now was to take
holy orders, to become a priest of the Church of
England. He was not sure how one set about joining
the Church. Had Mr. Havelock been accessible he
would have gone to him without hesitation, but he
was certainly not going to confide in Dr. Bolte. Boyd
Freeman’s father had been a clergyman, and Boyd,
of course, could tell him much that he wanted to
know, but it might be some time before he could see
Boyd, and letters were not very satisfactory.
He had been thinking of this before chapel
to-night, and half-way through the service he decided
that he would talk matters over with Mr. Stone.
“... Though I give my body to be burned, and
have not charity, it profiteth me nothing”...
Dick Rawdon read well. It seemed impossible
that words like those should not engender faith and
love.
“ ... And now abideth faith, hope and charity,
these three ; but the greatest of these is charity.”
Charity was love —and love was God.
ROBIN’S interview with Mr. Stone was disappoint-
ing, and he came away from it with a distinct
feeling of loss.
“I’m afraid the only advice I can give you,” Mr.
Stone said, “is for the immediate future, and that
concerns your senior exam. You shouldn’t let any-
thing interfere with your work for that. You say
you want to go into the Church —well, the passing of
your examination would help you along the way.
However, I do not think, whatever your future beliefs
may be, that a clergyman’s life would suit you. You
would find Church government intolerably irksome.
You would be a small part of a vast machine, where
original effort would not be permitted. If you have
found school discipline hard to bear, you would find
Church discipline infinitely harder, and more unrea-
sonable. But surely this is a matter to discuss with
Dr. Bolte, and not with me.”
“1 can talk more easily to you. Religion has
come to mean so much to me that I felt I must tell
other people about it —help them to find what I have
found—and the only way to do this seemed to be by
becoming a parson.”
Mr. Stone drummed restlessly with his fingers on
the study table ; he would have given a great deal to
escape this talk with Robin.
“Youth without enthusiasms,” he said, “would be
a poor thing. But we should try to keep our enthusi-
asms within bounds. Extravagant emotions only lead
to unhappiness, and I know no greater tragedy than
the death of Faith. I would not try to persuade you
or anyone against what he believes to be right, but
I do want you to realise that any belief that is arrived
at through the senses should be held in suspicion.
You can trust your reason a long way, but feelings
are apt to let us down.”
A growing doubt of Mr. Stone’s own attitude
towards religion made Robin ask “What do you
believe?”
Mr. Stone sat for a while without replying ; at
last he said:
“I’m sorry you asked me that. I’m afraid I
cannot give you a satisfactory answer. This is a
Church school, and, as such, since you are a
Protestant, religious instruction is just as much a
part of the curriculum as English lessons or history
or maths. 1 am an English master and not a clergy-
man, so I have nothing to do with teaching religion.
But I am a part of this institution, and so have no
more right to decry, even if I wanted to, the head-
master’s divinity lessons or Mr. Field’s prayerbook
teachings than they have to raise doubts as to the
usefulness of my English classes. If you find the
problem too hard for you, come to me again ; but it
would be better for you to puzzle it out for yourself.”
“I thought I had puzzled it out,” Robin said.
“My conclusions seemed very definite —and right.”
“Perhaps you have arrived at a correct answer,
but you’ve come to it the wrong way. I think you’ve
been led entirely by your emotions. Now give your
reason a chance, and if the result is the same there’s
nothing further to be said.”
ROBIN had intended writing to Boyd Freeman, but
after the talk with Mr. Stone he decided not to.
Many months afterwards he admitted that he had
been afraid of what Boyd’s reply might be, but at the
time he had contented himself with the thought that
the exams, were imminent and that until they were
over the question of his religious life could stand in
abeyance. This habit of pushing an unsolved problem
out of his mind until a more convenient time was
becoming a fixed characteristic that was to stay with
him throughout his life, though he was to find that
the convenient time never came, that problems could
not be escaped, and that the longer they were left
unfaced the more they increased in complexity. This,
however, was hardly true so far as the present problem
was concerned, for his sudden religious fervor, sub-
merged in the mental stress of the examinations and
the all-absorbing events of the months that followed
them, never really came to the surface again, though
it was a long time before he took Mr. Stone’s advice
and allowed reason to have any voice in the argu-
ment.
Chapter XII.
Ilf CAN’T understand it,” said Mr.
I Stone. “Five A’s and a medal for
J| ( English is an excellent pass and
then you go and fail in Latin. We’ll
have to get the paper re-read ; there must
be something wrong.”
“No, sir,” Robin said ; “I know I failed.”
“But why? It was such an easy paper. Any
sort of a pass would have let you through, but
now What happened?
“I only handed in half the paper.”
“But there was plenty of time. Couldn’t you
do it?”
“Yes, it was easy enough. I did the whole paper,
but I only handed half of it up.”
“You careless idiot! To think that a slip like
that may ruin your chances of ever going to the
University.”
“I don’t want to go to the University.”
“Do you mean”
Robin turned and walked to the study window
that looked out over the school grounds and the river.
A group of boys were gathered at the end of the
cricket pitch, their heads bent over a newspaper
spread on the ground. Barney Case came charging
up to them, yelling joyfully “Congrats! I’ve failed
handsomely, Dick’s won the Beaton Scholarship, and
Vol’s got a medal.”
Mr. Stone came across to the window and looked
down. “Perhaps he has failed handsomely, but you
haven’t, Robin. I’m sorry for you—very sorry ; and
for your father.”
“He’ll never understand. I’ll not try to explain
it to him. I did once, but he wouldn’t listen.”
“Can you tell me?”
“Is it any use?”
“I don’t know ; but it will do you good to tell
someone. Bottled-up emotions are as harmful as slow
poisons in the body.”
“Very well. I think I’ve wanted to tell you for a
long while —but first I must send a telegram home.
They won’t see the papers for another two days and
will be anxious for news.”
BACK again in the study after a walk to the post
office, Robin said “It’s hard to find a starting-off:
place.”
Mr. Stone interrupted. “Did you send the wire?”
“Yes.”
“To your father?”
“No, to my sister —I’d rather she told them.”
“What did you say?”
Robin handed over a slip of paper. “Here’s a
copy.”
Mr. Stone read: “Have failed to matriculate.”
“Terse enough,” he said. “And rather melo-
dramatic, I think. Why not have mentioned the
five A’s and the medal?”
“They’ll find that out soon enough. It doesn’t
make any difference. All they’re interested in is
whether I’ve qualified for the University.”
Mr. Stone listened without comment to Robin’s
apologia. Once started, the boy poured out his soul
in a torrent of words. His early days at school,
loneliness, Dr. Bolte, irksome restraint, weary repe-
tition of work, Malwa, his mother’s hopes. Slowly
the flood lost its force, leaving him spent. He ended
wearily “It was Mother’s attitude that finally made
me do what I did. The morning of the Latin paper
I had a letter from her, full of hopes for the result
of the exams., outlining plans for the University years
(we were to live together, you know), wonderful
schemes for the future—travel, further study abroad,
success. Latin was always my weakest subject. I
hoped the paper would be too hard for me, but when
I had finished it I knew I’d passed. I sat there waiting
to hand in my papers, thinking of the letter, and I
was afraid. I knew that if we lived together for five
years she would beat me I wouldn’t want to go
back to Malwa. Well, it’s over now.”
“If you had another chance, would you go on?
You could get a Latin post. I could promise you
that.”
“I don’t know. Just now I’m very sorry about
it. I’m tired.”
“Do you mind if I write to your father?”
“No. But you’ll never make him understand.”
“I think I might. If I get his consent, will you
go on?”
Robin didn’t answer for a while, then he said
slowly “Yes, I will.”
“Til write to-day: I suppose you know that the
Head is giving a supper-party to-night to all the
passes. You won’t enjoy it much, I expect.”
ROBIN walked across the room to Barney Case.
“How did you get in here?” he asked. “I thought
the party was only for passes.”
Barney grinned. “So it is. Bob Green and 1
were the only two failures. Bob’s in bed with an
abscess or something ; that only left me, and I was
hungry, so I came in. He hasn’t kicked me out yet,
and this is the third cup of coffee. I don’t mind now.
Vol, who’s the girl that’s staying with the Boltes —the
one in green?”
“I don’t know. She’s pretty.”
“She’s a peach! She was yapping to me just
now. Asked me what my pass was. I said two Y’s,
two Z’s and an also-ran. She got a bit huffy—thought
I was pulling her leg or something—so I had to spill
the beans and beg her not to draw the boss’s attention
to me till I’d had another go at the seed-cake. She
dumped an extra dollop of cream into my coffee and
a bag of coconut-ice into my pocket, and here I am.
Her name’s Lena or something. Must be German.
We had a cook named Lena Hell! I’m for it.”
Robin turned to find Dr. Bolte at his elbow.
The head-master ignored Barney. To Robin he said
“I must congratulate you, Stewart, on your English
medal. Well worth waiting for, don’t you think?
Even so, you made a mess of things in that Latin
paper —an easier one than last year —what hope would
you have had then? What now? Shall we have
the pleasure of your company for another year?”
Robin said “I don’t think so, sir,” and added
recklessly “I hope not.”
“So do I, Stewart,” said Dr. Bolte, smiling
suavely. “For your own sake, of course. I hardly
think you are suited to an academic career. I have
written to tell your father so. He’ll be pleased with
your pass, no doubt. Come with me. I want to
introduce you to Mrs. Bolte's cousin, Miss Holt.
Myrna, this is Robin Stewart, our medallist.”
Robin thought “Myrna! Barney’s an ass.”
THE girl in green was saying “You must have worked
very hard. Don’t you feel proud, beating all these
older boys—even Dick Rawdon?”
“I didn’t work hard —not this year,” Robin said,
“and I’m actually the oldest boy in the room. I’m
twenty next month.”
“Sit down beside me,” she said. “Really, I’m
an awful ass. It’s your fault, you know —you shouldn’t
look so young. 1 thought you were about sixteen—
seventeen at the oldest. I was trying to be nice and
motherly and wondering how on earth I was going to
talk to you. Now I’ll tell you a secret. This is my
birthday, and I’m twenty-seven —and you needn’t say
‘Many happy returns.’ I’ve heard nothing else since
dawn this morning.”
“You’re staying with Mrs. Bolte, aren’t you?”
“Yes, for three months. She’s a dear, but I can’t
stand Mark.”


“Then we have something in common.”
“But all the boys adore him!”
“Did he tell you that himself?”
“No, he didn’t—as a matter of fact that red-
headed friend of yours told me —the one that got two
Y’s, two Z’s and an also-ran. I like that boy. What’s
his name?”
Robin grinned. “Barney Case.”
“Barney Case! Then I know his cousin.”
“He’s a good scout but an awful liar. Bolte
treats him like a spot of plague.”
“Then he’s loyal, as well as being a good scout.”
“Don’t be too sure of that. Barney knew you
were staying with the Head, and wanted to get on
the right side of you—probably thought you admired
him tremendously.”
“Well, I don’t. Let’s forget him. Can’t we find
something else in common? Books, of course, but
you probably know far more than I do. Mrs. Bolte
wants me to help with her Browning afternoons. 1
adore Browning but I loathe 'afternoons.’ I don’t
suppose you’ve ever been to one. Take my advice
and don’t. They sit around and find the most wonder-
ful meanings for everything that Browning wrote —
and, you know, strictly between ourselves, I don’t
think he meant anything at all half the time.”
“I really don’t know him at all,” Robin confessed.
“Only ‘Saul’ and ‘Cleon’ —I love both of those.”
“Then I’m going to lend you my Browning, anno-
tated by Mark —don’t turn your nose up ; he may be
a pig, but he is probably the greatest English scholar
we have out here. There’s another man, too, that
you’d like—Herbert Trench ; I’ve just discovered him.
I’ll give them to you to-night before you go. You
may keep them as long as you like, but tell me what
you think of them some time. I’ve an idea! Do you
row?”
“We’ve never had a boat.”
“Oh, I don’t mean racing. But there are boats
for hire on the river, aren’t there? Mrs. Bolte
promised me she would get some of the boys to take
me up the river some time. I believe it’s very
beautiful above the bridge. Would you take me?”
“Of course —I’d love to,” Robin said.
Chapter XIII .
u W ORD, dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
The hymn, shouted in happy
chorus by two hundred lusty voices,
filled the chapel and poured out into
the night, to echo over the school grounds
in dying waves of sound.
How often, Robin wondered, had he heard these
words —bellowed them himself at the top of his voice
with no thought but that they heralded the commence-
ment of the holidays. But to-night, on this his last
Sunday at school, they carried a strange significance,
a breaking, tragic cadence, that was apart from the
tune, apart from the words.
He remembered Boyd Freeman had said “That
damned hymn—mawkish, sentimental slush—it got me
to-night—got me good and proper, as nothing else has
in leaving here.”
Robin thought: It’s the chapel, really, not the
hymn. The chapel for the last time. This place in
all the school of pure, true beauty ; serene and kindly,
fashioned in loveliness by loving hands—the carved
stone, the scroll-work on the pews and arching beams,
the stained windows, the altar-rails, the lectern, the
soft light in the transepts and the chancel. He had
never realised before how much a part of his life it
had become —how much he would miss it.
ROBIN’S last term at Macquarie had been the hap-
piest of all the seven years. Since the exams, he
had been allowed to do much as he liked. He was not
going on to the University. Mr. Stone had told him
what he had already learnt from a letter of his
father’s —that he would not be given a second chance.
Donald Stewart’s letter to his son had shown bitter
disappointment, but he had been generous enough to
give Robin credit for the good work he had done.
What Donald resented most, it seemed, was Robin’s
lack of confidence in him, unfortunately made obvious
by Mr. Stone’s well-meaning efforts. The head-
master’s letter, too, had been very discouraging, and
on the whole, Donald thought, it would be better if
Robin came home at the end of the term. From his
mother Robin received no word, either in praise or
blame ; nor did she answer his letters, so in the end
he stopped writing to her. Nora, Of course, had been
sympathetic, and very proud of his medal.
It was to Myrna Holt that Robin owed the
happiness of this final term. Starting with an inter-
change of books, their friendship had grown steadily
and strongly. They had discovered more tastes in
common pictures, music, wind-blown trees, land-
scapes, the city skyline at night. Since he had lost
touch with Boyd Freeman there had been no one
with whom Robin could enjoy these things with
mutual sympathy. He was, he discovered, hungry for
the understanding of a kindred spirit, and in the
surge of joyous thankfulness at finding one in Myrna
Holt he had poured out his soul with reckless abandon
—until a spark from the fire of his own emotions
started a flame in the girl’s heart which was burning
ě
CARL SCHREIBER placed the last
of his sight pegs, tied a rag to the
top of it, and, taking a final look
along the line of six-foot white-
topped posts, walked back to the end of
the paddock, where his four horses stood hitched to
the heavy double-furrow plough. He stepped in
between the arching handlebars, grasped the rope
plough-lines and called to the furrow-horse.
The team started with a slow, steady pull, Dolly
stepping straight for the first sight peg with even,
unhurried, purposeful strides, her broad rump sway-
ing. the swinglebar moving backwards and forwards
to each thrust of heavy shoulders. The moist earth
curled along the slanting mouldboards, to lie, as the
plough passed on, in a double line of rich chocolate
brown.
“The opening furrow is the important one,”
thought Schreiber. “Get that straight and the rest
follows easily, a well-ploughed field.” Two hundred
acres was a big lump of land to turn over with a
two-furrow plough. In South Australia he had
cropped one hundred and fifty acres, and it had meant
hard work and long hours. He had to do everything
for himself then, cooking and keeping the house
clean and tidy. After a long day’s work, when a
man had watered and fed the horses, he did not feel
like preparing a meal for himself. It was different
now that Clare was with him. He would be able to
work longer hours —if the horses could stand it. He
really needed a second team, but extra / horses would
need extra feed, and if the crop was a failure .. .
But it couldn’t be a failure. He knew how to
farm, and this ground was richer than any he had
cropped. The share terms, too, were amazingly good.
In South Australia he had worked on the half-and-
half system —the owner supplying the land and half
the seed and taking half the crop. Mr. Stewart
supplied all the seed-wheat and claimed only a third
of the harvest. Carl would see that the crop did not
fail for lack of energy or understanding on his part.
Reaching the first sight peg he stopped the team
and moved the post farther into the field, ready when
he should need it to strike the second opening furrow.
As he came back to the plough he noticed that two
men had ridden into the paddock ; that would be
Mr. Stewart and his son, whom Schreiber had not
met. Beyond them he could see Clare coming from
the small weatherboard cottage that was now his
home. She would be bringing his lunch.
DONALD STEWART'turned to his son. “The first
furrow turned on Malwa! We’re farmers now,
Robin. Do you like the idea?”
“Not altogether,” Robin said. “Probably it’s
because I’m not used to wheat except close to towns
and railways. I don’t want to be close to towns.”
Donald laughed. “It has to be ; the railway is
coming, you know. The earthwork is up as far as
Beni Creek, and the survey gang has been through
Malwa ; you will see their pegs in the Washpool and
Kurrajong paddocks.”
“I didn’t know it had gone so far as that. I saw
the earthworks coming out of Clune, but I only
vaguely remembered that it would be running through
here.” He turned to his father in alarm. “What
about closer settlement resumption? Isn’t there
danger now of Malwa, or a great part of it, being
taken by the Government?”
“It was that that made me start farming. I am
clearing five thousand acres for wheat, and by the
time the railway is here I hope to have six or seven
families living on Malwa share-farmers. Carl
Schreiber is the first of them, and I hope they’ll all
be as good as he is. Look at that furrow it’s as
straight as a gun-barrel.”
“But a two-furrow plough! It will take him all
the year to turn the ground over.”
“He says he can manage it, and I don’t care much
if he only gets half of it in. Next year, if the crop
is reasonable, he’ll be able to buy better machinery ;
he could do it now on time-payment, but seems to
have a horror of borrowing money. He’s probably
right. I’ve had to borrow at different times and never
felt happy while the debt was hanging over my head.
Everything is clear now. Wilga Downs is in your
mother’s name ; a lot of her money is in it, and in
view of the Government’s closer-settlement policy it’s
a good idea to break the ownership up a bit. I’ve
thought of putting Lammas in your name, but won’t
unless I have to ; it would probably complicate
matters in the event of my death. In any case, I
don’t think it’s necessary now—not if I can get share-
farmers on.”
“Have you let all the clearing contracts yet?”
“Not for more than two thousand acres. I want
the farmers to clear their own land if possible—they’ll
make a thorough job of it if they know they are to
use the land afterwards. Then, of course, there’s the
expense—houses to build, and fencing—l can’t do it
all at once. The rabbits, too, are becoming a menace ;
we’ll probably have to net all the cultivation paddocks.
I’m making other changes, too ; breeding more sheep.
I intend to confine the cattle to the country on the
other side of the main road. It is mostly plain, with
just enough high land around Bald Head and Battle
Ridge. You knew I’d taken over the Milsom selec-
tion.”
“Yes,” Robin said ; and then “What happened to
Hope and Tom Milsom? I know they were con-
victed. What did they get?”
“Six years, poor devils —the two wives got off.
Bella, 1 heard, was running a small hotel in Sydney —
started business with the money I paid for the selec-
tion. I don’t know what happened to Maggie.”
“What will my job be now that I’m home?”
Robin asked.
“I’m going to hand over all the stock work to
you. The farming side of the business will be my
concern. After a while, when you’re thoroughly into
the swing of things, I’m going to send you up to
manage Wilga Downs, with Billy King as your over-
seer. He’s an excellent man, but has no education at
all and gets dithered if anything goes wrong. As it
is I have to visit Wilga once a month at least. That
will be part of your job now. I’m putting in machines
at Wilga this year, and at Malwa. I’m not very keen
about them, but everyone is changing over, and if we
increase our sheep-holding here the old blade-shears
would be hopelessly inadequate.”
They rode on down to the end of the furrow,
where they spoke to Schreiber for a minute or two
and passed on thrdugh the paddocks to where the
new clearing was in progress.
Robin had been home from school three days,
and to-day he was riding around with his father,
receiving instructions before taking over new responsi-
bilities. Neither Donald nor his mother had made
any comment on his failure to qualify for the Uni-
versity, and Robin was only too glad to let it go at
that. He could notice no change in his mother’s
attitude towards him, and Donald seemed genuinely
pleased to have him home.
ROBIN was amazed at the changes on Malwa. All
in a moment, it seemed, the whole atmosphere of
the place had altered. The western end of the


property was being turned into a small community.
Three new weatherboard houses had sprung up, and
another was in course of construction, while the smoke
from 2000 acres of burning timber hung over the
land in a blue, uneasy mist. In a little while, Robin
thought, this whole area would be cleared —naked and
cold like the field Schreiber was ploughing. Field!
The very name was an innovation, heavy with warn-
ing of towns and people, of confined space, of culti-
vated enclosures.
Only in the east, where Bald Head reigned,
change had not entered. Here in the afternoon Robin
came alone, riding Black Harry amongst the cattle
feeding contentedly through the rich plain grass, four-
year-old bullocks in the fattening paddock, breeding
cows with big, lusty calves at foot in Long Swamp.
Robin felt a glow of pleasure as he rode amongst
them. This side of Malwa at least would never
change; the hills, all trap-rock and granite, were
totally unsuited to cultivation. They were his, too,
to deal with as he saw fit. He knew that his father,
having handed over the stock work, and engrossed as
he obviously was in his farming venture, would not
interfere in any way. Here, then, was work that
Robin loved, work that he knew he could do well—
stock-breeding, sheep and cattle and horses. Already
in his mind was a plan for breeding more horses on
the limestone country beyond the cultivation land ;
army remounts for India that he would sell through
his Uncle Brand. He wondered if it would be possible
to persuade Brand to stay at Malwa now and help him
with the horses.
He toyed happily with the idea as he left the
river land and rode up into the hills. Passing along
Battle Ridge he looked across at a scrub-cloaked
hillside to discover a score of stark, white blazed
laces staring out of the tangled mass of “sifting bush.”
I hey had the look of wild cattle, and Robin was
pleased that his unpractised eye had picked them out
so readily, for they stood like statues on the mountain-
side.
He rode on through the Milsom selection and
drew rein at the deserted hut, with regret in his heart
lor the old man who had died there in a mistaken
act of heroism. Grandfather Milsom had been buried
at the edge of the clearing, and his grave was sur-
rounded by a fence of pointed pickets. They had
never been painted ; many of them were broken, and
stock had wandered across the lonely mound. At the
head of the grave Brand Stewart had set a great slab
of granite, taken from the river-bed. It was rough
and uncut except for a polished oval near the top, on
which were carved the words
Thomas Grant Milsom.
Died 3rd Jan., 1905.
A great horseman.
Robin rode up through the gorge. He was
anxious to see Hope’s selection again, and wondered
if it was being worked or if it had been deserted.
The great gorge was four or five miles long, but
before he had reached the head of it Robin heard the
ringing bark of an axe against hard wood, and in a
little while he rode- up to a man mortising ironbark
posts beside a half-built stockyard. The man turned
out to be George Hope’s brother Frank, whom Robin
knew as one of the regular shearers at Malwa. He
explained that he and his wife were running the
selection until George came back. Maggie and her
child, a girl now four years old whom George had
never seen, lived with them. Bella, Robin was told,
was staying for a week or two on a holiday from the
city.
Hope seemed pleased that Robin was back and
would be taking charge. He asked Robin to come
to the house with him to meet his womenfolk. Not
wishing to appear unwilling, but rather wondering
how Bella and Maggie would take his visit, Robin
consented.
He was amazed at the look of quiet prosperity
that surrounded the little homestead. The four-
roomed weatherboard cottage was a picture of clean-
liness and neatness, and with its small garden a blaze
of rich colors it contrasted strongly with the deserted
hut that he had just left. The Hopes, Robin knew,
were great workers, but neither Maggie nor her
mother, as he remembered them, cared anything for
their homes, and Bella especially had been far more
in her element in a cattle-camp. He had the explana-
tion when he met Frank Hope’s wife. She was small,
neat and cheerful; she had no children. Maggie had
changed greatly ; she seemed subdued and colorless
and had aged, so that she actually looked older than
her mother. Bella Milsom was wonderful.
It was the first time Robin had seen her wearing
other than a shirt and dungaree trousers. She was
magnetic, darkly beautiful, young-looking and bril-
liantly alive. She recognised Robin instantly and
greeted him with a rich, bold laugh. “Well, have
you come to warn me again not to steal any more
cattle?”
Robin was awkwardly silent, and Maggie looked
up reproachfully.
“Oh, Mother, don’t!” she said. “Let bygones be
bygones.”
Bella laughed again. “You don’t know what
I'm talking about,” she said.
Turning to Robin, she held out her hand.
“We understand each other, don’t we? I’m really
more grateful for your warning than you might think,
young man. Come across till I see you in the light!
My! but you’ve grown You’re taller than your
father and slimmer than he ever was—more like your
Uncle Brand. Where is he? Do you know?”
“In India, I think, but we don’t know for certain.
He went over with a mob of horses about a year
ago.”
“I know. He came to see me before he left.
Stayed at the hotel for a couple of nights, and then
got on to the boat sober—thanks to me. So you’re
home for good. And Frank says you’ll have charge
of the cattle. Well, I won’t be here to worry you,
and I’ll give you a bit of advice now, if you’re not
too proud to take it.”
“Of course I’m not.” Robin smiled. “What is
it?”
“Do you know what cattle you have on Bald
Head and in the Five Mile?”
“I haven’t been there yet, but I saw some of
them on the hills from a distance. They looked like
scrubbers.”
“They’re not scrubbers. If they were it would
be all right. They’re plain-bred cattle, two-year-olds
mostly ; I could tell them a mile away. A mob your
father must have bought somewhere. I know cattle
better than you do—better than your father ever did
—and I tell you this: if you don’t move them soon
they’ll die. Plain-bred cattle are no good in the trap-
rock country once they’re older than yearlings. Turn
them into the hills as weaners and let them grow up
with the rocks, and in a couple of years they’ll come
out tat bullocks ; but turn them in as grown cattle
when their feet are soft from the plains and they’ll
die. They’re frightened of the stones, and although
there’s water running through every paddock they
poke away in the scrub and on the hilltops, too sore-
footed and too scared to come down the spurs and
into the gullies for a drink. You’ll have to get ’em
out of that, and they’re going to take moving. Frank
says they’ve been there for over a month. I’ll help
you if Frank’ll lend me a horse, but you had better
not tell your father.”
Robin said non-committahy “Thanks for telling
me. I’ll have a look at them going home.”
Bella laughed. “All right—it might be as well if
I didn’t go ; but you’d better come over and get old
Watch—he’s as good as three men.” She added with
a wicked smile “Day or night, it’s all the same to him
—and he never barks.”
As he was riding away Bella, standing beside his
horse, put her hand on his knee. “When you’re in
Sydney come to see me, Robin,” she said.
Chapter XV.
DONALD STEWART handed a
letter to Robin and laughed.
“There,” he said; “that’s your
pigeon now.”
The letter was written in a large
round hand that brought back memories to Robin
of his term in Lower School at Macquarie. It was
short and very much to the point.
Mr. Stewart, Dear Sir,
Them bloody yoes is blue again. You will
better cum up. I am out of salt. Them
machines is here.
Your obedient servant,
William King.
“Billy King would rather do a week’s work than
write half a page,” said Donald, “and he won’t hand
the job over to his wife or his sons. I know what
the trouble is this time ; it’s not the flies in the sheep
that he’s worried about —God knows, he’s coped with
that curse every winter since his boyhood—it’s the
new shearing-machines. I told him we’d have them
installed before the flies got bad this year and crutch
everything. They’re something new to him, and, as
usual, he’s all on edge. Campbell’s expert will be
here in a couple of days ; you’d better wait and take
him up with you. Do you know who he is?”
“Yes. John Morgan. I had a letter from him
yesterday. He’s been putting in machines all over
the country and seems very keen on his job. Shearing-
machines and windmills ; his letter had nothing else
in it. He always was an enthusiast.”
“I don’t think he’ll stay in his present job for
long, though,” said Donald. “Dr. Morgan is buying
a small property a little way out of Clune. He’ll want
John to manage it, of course. He’ll probably be just
as enthusiastic about that. Dr. Morgan had an idea
of starting a flock of the new breed Corriedales.
They’re only crossbreds at the best. They haven’t
been breeding long enough to establish a distinct
type, but Morgan, who knows practically nothing
about sheep, seems very keen to start his flock.”
Donald smiled. “He even tried to persuade me to
sell off the Malwa stud and stock-up with this damned
comeback rubbish.”
Robin laughed.
“I’ll show John what real wool looks like when
I get him to Wilga Downs. He’ll go back thinking
the Malwa rams are the greatest sheep in the world
and will hold that opinion for just as long as his
father keeps off enthusing about Corriedales. I know
John.”
was enjoying every minute of his new life
** at Malwa. Early and late he was out on the run
working amongst his beloved stock. He had moved
the plain cattle from the trap-rock country and had
replaced them with weaners, making sure during the
first few weeks that they found their way down to
water. He had asked Frank Hope to come with him
to muster the hills, adding his help to that of his own
stockman.
Bella had chaffed him for not asking her to come,
but had insisted on his taking Watch, the cattle-dog
that she had trained herself. The old blue dog had
been his tonstant companion ever since. Bella had
said “You might as well keep him. There’s no work
for him here, and he loves cattle. He knows them as
well as I do, and it would be a shame to keep him
away from them.” And then maliciously: “It’s better
to have him for you than against you. You’ll feel
safe knowing that you have the only dog in the district
that will work at night.”
Donald, though he was not enthusiastic, had raised
no objection to Robin’s scheme of breeding horses.
However, he suggested that as the country at his dis-
posal was limited Robin should breed polo ponies
instead of remounts. He pointed out that a well-
trained polo pony would bring many times the price
of an ordinary remount and could readily be sold in
Australia. There were two polo clubs in Clune, where
a yearly gymkhana was held to which came all the
principal players in the State and occasionally teams
from Queensland and Victoria. Gillson Brain, too,
had already suggested to Robin that they should form
their own club. Some new people had come to
Mount Henry, a property which joined both Malvva
and Burnt Plains ; George Hare, an old polo-player.
He had two sons, Bob and Fred, who were a year
or two older than Robin.
Gillson Brain said that if they started a club a
good ground was available on Burnt Plains, and he
knew that the three Mclntyres, who lived about twenty
miles away, would join up ; that would give them two
teams to enter for the Clune carnival and would mean
a full practice match every week.
To Robin’s surprise his mother had been most
enthusiastic about his taking-up polo and had given
him a splendid outfit: saddles and rugs and sticks and
gear everything in abundance and everything he
could possibly want.
Mary saw in the weekly polo meetings social
functions at which she, as sister of the great William
Graham and the wife of the biggest landholder in
the district, would reign supreme. Then, too, there
was Nora, as yet unmarried. She would meet more
people, eligible young men of good standing, and
would of course attend regularly the gymkhana
held yearly in Clune.
The opening day was made an occasion of
special celebrations. The Mclntyres, whom Robin
liked immensely, had played before, and so, of course,
had Hare and his two sons. Bob, the elder, was an
exceptionally fine player. After a few weeks the
teams sorted themselves out into firsts and seconds, or,
as they called themselves, Malwa A and Malwa B.
The A team was made up of Bob Hare, captain and
full-back ; Hugh Mclntyre, No. 3 ; Peter Mclntyre,
a dashing player, No. 2; and Robin No. 1. Robin
owed his place in the first team solely to his good
ponies and his horsemanship. His ponies, bred on
Malwa, were fast and clever. He had broken them
himself, and he promised to be an even better horse-
man than his Uncle Brand. Gillson Brain played
No. 1 for Malwa.
Gillson from the beginning was jealous of
Robin. Even before Robin came home from school
Brain had been hitting a ball about, and undoubtedly
he was handier with his stick than the A team’s No. 1,
but when it came to actual riding he was far inferior
to Robin, who was outstandingly the best horseman
in the club, and, with a horse between his knees, felt
capable of doing anything. Gillson, though he rode
well enough, played almost delicately, lacked initiative
and very much disliked a rough-and-tumble tussle
with his opposing back. He had, of course, a far
harder man to manage in Bob Hare than Robin had
in Bob’s father.
They all looked forward to the club carnival at
the end of the season, where Robin hoped to sell
three of his mounts and so establish his name as a
breeder and trainer of polo ponies. One of his string,
a chestnut mare that he called The Witch, he intended
to keep. She was a magnificent animal, fast, coura-
geous and clever. He intended to play her for a
few seasons and then breed from her. He had four
other mares now carrying foals to a Burnt Plains
pony ; he would buy others, probably at the yearling
sales in the spring. These, with about a dozen three-
year-olds that he would be breaking-in at the end of
the year, would form the basis of his polo stud.
Donald, too, had agreed to buy a suitable stallion.
Sir Marrock, the station sire, was far too big for their
purpose, and Robin thought he would probably get
rid of him and use ponies in future for all the station
work.
DOWNS was a fifty-mile drive from
” Malwa, the last twenty miles of it across black
soil, and, as rain looked likely the morning they
started, Donald suggested that Robin and John
Morgan should take the pole sulky, kept for such
occasions, and drive four-in-hand. This was an
entirely new idea to John, and he was supremely
happy when they started from Malwa, the four big
coachers fresh and hard to hold and making easy
work of the light two-wheeled vehicle. It was almost
as exhilarating, he told Robin, as riding in a motor-
car.
Dr. Morgan had just bought a car, the first in
the district, and he and John had had a most eventful
drive in it from Sydney to Clune. Luckily, John
was mechanically inclined, for all sorts of things went


e
ALL around there was a constant
mutter of thunder. The blue haze
above the clearing fires hung low
and still in the heavy air. Robin’s
whole body tingled, as it always did before
a storm. He felt uncomfortable, depressed and all
on edge. It was time to go home, he thought; too
late, really, for the storm would certainly catch him
before he reached the homestead. It would be better
to take shelter for a while in one of the share-farmers’
cottages. Martin’s was the nearest, and Robin turned
Black Harry’s head towards it.
They were queer people, the Martins, the third
family to start share-farming on Malwa. They were
Seventh Day Adventists, Robin thought, but was not
sure. At any rate, they professed some queer religion
and did not work on Saturdays, and as Sunday was a
general holiday they took that too. There were two
brothers, one of whom was married and had three
children —two girls and a boy of about seventeen, a
loose-mouthed, stupid-looking creature whom Robin
disliked. However, they had the reputation of being
good farmers and had the biggest and most up-to-date
plant on Malwa. They were farming an 800 block
adjoining Carl Schreiber’s land, while on the other side
of them was Tom Donovan, who had almost finished
clearing the country which would be his to crop next
year.
Robin crossed the creek and rode down the long
spur that led to the cultivation land. It was growing
darker, the thunder was closer and more menacing,
the wind came in short, savage gusts, and the dead
timber on the ridge and on the skyline behind him
would leap into sudden prominence in the glare of
the flickering lightning. Just ahead of him two mares
whinnied for their foals, and the four of them stood
for a moment facing the coming storm with lifted
heads and wind-blown manes before they wheeled
and trotted down into the sheltering fold of land
between steep spurs.
It was not more than half a mile to Martin’s
cottage, but Robin knew the storm would overtake
him before he was half-way. He rode down with
what speed he could, Black Harry picking his way
amongst the stones and fallen timber. The storm was
all around him now; a few heavy drops ol rain
fell on his hands; the lightning was almost con-
tinuous. Suddenly a great dead box-tree immediately
in front of him was bathed in fire, and, striking down
through the yellow glare, a ragged flame, fiercei,
brighter, joined the tree to the dark sky.
Robin could never remember hearing the crash
of thunder which he knew must have followed on the
heels of the lightning-stroke. He had no recollection
of sound —only the blinding light, the low, dark roof
of the sky, and the white tree suddenly bursting into
a hundred pieces. His next recollection was of lying
in the rain, with the night around him and the storm
still thundering. His head ached hideously and his
left arm was numb and useless. Yards away, in the
intermittent lightning-flashes, he saw Black Harry
lying beneath a shattered limb, and when he gained
his feet and staggered over to the horse he knew
that it was dead.
It was the shock of finding that Black Harry
had been killed that cleared a little his muddled
brain. He wondered how his Uncle Brand would
take the loss, if he would feel it as much as Robin
did himself. He did not think this possible, though
he knew how high a value Brand placed upon the
black. To Robin there would never be another horse
to take its place. Whalebone, he knew, was a finer
animal, and The Witch was a thing of fire and beauty,
made to be admired, but neither of them could ever
be the mate that Black Harry had been. It was a
strange thing, this intense love for an animal. He had
it in a lesser degree for Watch, the old blue cattle-
dog, and it was curious that neither the horse nor the
dog belonged to him. It was a hidden aching love, as
was his feeling for the land itself. Something that
he could never express, for the land was inanimate,
and the beasts, however kind he was to them, could
never be made aware of the intensity of his feelings.
He shrank from the thought of telling any human.
Apart from the possibility of ridicule, it was an
intimacy he did not wish to share. With Myrna,
perhaps, but not yet. He allowed himself sometimes
to dream of a time when she would share it with him.
But the dream came seldom and faded quickly, leaving
behind it a sense of insecurity, a haunting fear which
he pushed quickly out of his consciousness.
How Black Harry had died Robin could not tell;
whether from the lightning-stroke or the falling limb.
His own injuries, he realised now, could not have
been directly caused by lightning. There was a nasty
cut on the side of his head and his arm was com-
mencing to hurt a good deal; it was probably broken.
It seemed certain that he had been hit by flying
splinters from the lightning-struck tree.
Working painfully with one hand he pulled the
bridle and saddle from the dead horse with the idea
of carrying them home, but he abandoned them, for
he felt weak and sick, and it was still raining heavily.
LONG before he reached - Martin’s cottage he was
glad he had nothing to encumber him. Though he
knew the spur ran practically to the door of the
cottage he had trouble in keeping to the right way.
The rain and the darkness confounded him, and at
every blinding lightning-flash and crash of thunder
he was left dazed and momentarily incapable of
movement. He was almost fainting with fatigue and
pain when at last he banged feebly on the door of the
cottage.
There were lights in the front room, and through
the door Robin heard as in a dream tuneless voices
singing a hymn. Again and again he struck help-
lessly at the closed door, and was in despair when
finally it opened and Frank Martin stood framed in
the rectangle of light. He did not attempt to bring
Robin in but, turning to the room, said in a queer
high-pitched voice “A stranger has come to us out of
the storm.”
A deeper voice answered “It is the Lord’s will.
Let him cross the threshold.”
Robin was now led forward and seated on a hard
wooden chair beside the table. All the Martins were
in the room but none of them spoke to him. They
seemed annoyed rather than surprised at his appear-
ance, and he felt that he had burst in on some weird
seance. Though he was quite well known to all of
them they spoke of him all the time as “the stranger.”
Feeling desperately ill, he asked for a cup of tea.
Frank Martin explained that it was against their
religion to take “tea or coffee or any strong drink,”
but he offered rather grudgingly to make up the fire
and give him some hot water. Robin muttered not
to bother and asked if they could lend him a horse
to ride home ; the storm was passing and he thought
he could manage the ride once he was in the saddle,
but Harry Martin, the younger brother, said “The
stranger must wait a little while. The saddle-horses
are in the paddock.” Then, turning to the loose-
mouthed boy, who had been staring at Robin since
his entrance, he said “Rowland, get the organ.
The boy replied, tonelessly and without spirit,
“I won’t.”
Instantly Frank Martin broke in “Let us pray
for Rowland, who will not get the organ.”
At the end of the prayer the boy got up quietly,
walked into an inner room and came back with a
mouth-organ, which he handed to Harry Martin. The
man blew a few notes and the whole company broke
into a hymn.
Robin rested his arm on the table and dropped
his throbbing head into the crook of his elbow. He
was on the verge of sobbing, and felt that if this
went on much longer he could not control himself.
The hymn ceased and Frank Martin announced “Let
us pray for the stranger who came to us out of the
storm. O Lord, a stranger came to us out of the
storm. He asked for tea, and we offered him hot
water. He asked for a horse that he might ride”...
But Robin could stand no more. Staggering
blindly, he reached the door and passed out into the
night. No one seemed to heed his going, and the
door, swinging in the wind, banged shut behind him.
Sick and giddy, he leant for a minute against the
wall of the house. Inside he heard the mouth-organ
bray and then the singing of the words:
The foxes find rest
And the birds build their nests
In the shade of the sycamore-tree.
There is room in my heart, Lord Jesus,
There is room in my heart for Thee.
CLARE SCHREIBER stood in the doorway of her
weatherboard cottage and watched the retreating
storm. Over at the bark-roofed stable she could see
Carl’s lantern moving backwards and forwards as he
let the horses out into the small grass paddock for the
night. Now the rough weather had passed over they
would get better rest in the open, for the stable-yard
was a quagmire where no horse would lie down. They
were rugged and dry, for Carl was careful of his
workers.
Though the storm had passed the air was electric,
and a constant glimmer of lightning played over the
level fields of wheat. In the west the cloud masses
had gone, leaving behind a filmy grey veil through
which the stars were breaking one by one, but in the
east it was still black, and savage with veins of fire.
Clare, unlike many bush women, loved storms.
For her, though she could not have voiced her feel-
ings, a storm was the embodiment of all she wanted
to express in life freedom, movement, power
emotions clamoring for an outlet but hemmed in
for ever by circumstance and conventional habit. She
was barely twenty, and married to a man fifteen years
older than herself. It is doubtful if the thought of
love for her husband had ever seriously come to her.
She had married, as her sisters and her friends had
done, because it seemed the obvious thing to do ; and
Carl was, of course, a splendid husband, hardworking,
thrifty and kind. She thought wistfully, however,
that he was so different from the boy who rode past
sometimes on the black horse. He could not be any
older than herself, and looked so fine, so full of life.
She had never spoken to him, but sometimes when he
had ridden close by the cottage she wished that he
would draw rein just for a moment, to ask her where
Carl was or how much wheat they had planted—
anything.
The thought of the wheat drew her eyes to the
dark mass of the near-by field, and she wondered if
the storm had done much damage. It was early in
the season as yet, but much of their crop was well
advanced, and the higher growth was sure to be
tangled, even if it was not beaten flat. The first
wheat they had sown was growing almost at the
cottage door. Too close, Carl had grumbled ; if a
fire came in the summer-time they would be hard
put to it to escape ; he would cut deeply into it for
hay as soon as he could and plough a fire-break.
The night was very still now, and in the quietness
she heard something threshing about in the crop and
wondered if one of the horses had broken into the
field. Then in a flicker of light she saw Robin. He
was standing on the edge of the wheat, swaying and
uncertain, with one hand raised as though to shield
his eyes from the lightning. Her cry of alarm brought
Carl running with the lantern, but before he reached
them she had her arm around the boy’s shoulder,
holding him up.
ROBIN never had a clear recollection of his night-
mare struggle between the two share-farmers’
homes.. When he left the Martins he had no plan in
his mind ; all he wanted was to get away from that
awful room, from the hymns and the prayers. He
climbed through a fence and found himself in a field
of wheat, and, trying to force his way through, in a
very short while he was in the middle of it and
hopelessly confused. In places the crop was breast-
high, and the ground under his feet was sodden and
heavy. More than once he fell, but struggled up
again, pushing desperately forward, his legs shaking
and fear rising in a cold tide about his laboring heart.
Coming at last to the edge of the wheat, he did not
see the cottage, but he heard Clare’s call, and then,
with a feeling of infinite thankfulness, he felt himself
supported. He cried out once when she clutched his
broken arm, but his tortured nerves could stand no
more and he fainted, dropping at last into a profound
and dreamless nothingness.
He came back to life again with the feel of
rough blankets against his bare skin. He was warm
and comparatively comfortable, though his head
throbbed madly and his arm, held stiffly between
splints, seemed to be wrapped in white-hot fire. It
was quite a while before he realised where he was.
Clare, sitting on the side of the bed, held her arm
around his neck and was trying to help him drink a
cup of hot coffee and brandy. He swallowed it slowly
and felt much better.
Clare, smiling happily to see the color coming
back into his face, told him that Carl had ridden to
the homestead and that someone would soon be back
with a buggy. Robin smiled back at her.
Carl had carried him into the house, and together
husband and wife had undressed him and washed him
and not unskilfully set his arm. They had laid him,
still unconscious, between the blankets in their own
bed, and Carl had ridden off to the homestead while
Clare heated coffee on the stove.
She had sat beside him in an agony of suspense
and dread, watching his white face and wondering
if the closed eyes would ever open again. He had
come to her at last. He was lying in her bed, where
in a little while she herself would lie. She loved him,
loved him with all her soul. In a sudden excess ot
emotion she leant over and kissed him, and as though
her kiss had drawn him back to life his eyes opened
and he stared, as yet unseeing, into the lighted room.
With her heart beating a Te Deum she gave him the
hot drink, and afterwards for the first time she heard
his voice.
Curiously she watched him draw his arm from
under the blankets and hold it out in front of his
face, looking at it, surprised to see it clean of the mud.


What he was dping she did not know, but the sight
of it made her sick with longing, and without volition
she leant closer to him. Suddenly the arm was around
her neck and her lips were held to his.
CLARE sat at the side of the bed, holding the hand
which he had not thought of covering again, and
they stayed so without speaking until trotting hooves
broke through their dreaming and Donald Stewart
came in to carry his son away.
Chapter XVII.
I|, M RS. GLASSON carried the tray
of tea-things out on to the little
,L vl, sun - balcony overlooking the
water. Turning to Myrna Holt
she said with a smile “Well, did you get
the letter you wanted?”
“It was from Robin,” Myrna said, and, after a
pause, “I’ve been wondering if I really did want it —
no, not that exactly, but I wonder if I’m not a fool
to let this go on. At times when his letters come I’m
half afraid to open them, and I’ve felt what an infinite
relief it would be if I knew once and for all that it
was over, that he had found someone else to love.”
“But you ?” Mrs. Glasson carried a cup of tea
across the balcony to her friend. “You do love him?”
Myrna was silent for so long that Elsie Glasson
believed that she did not intend to answer her question.
Oh, well, she thought, it was the girl’s own business,
and she would be the last one to extract a confidence
that was not voluntarily given. She drew her chair
further into the sunlight and put the plate of buttered
toast between them. But it seemed that Myrna was
holding nothing back; rather, it was a question difficult
to answer, for, as though there had been no interval
of time, she answered:
“I don’t know. I believe I could love him, but
I’m afraid —afraid to let myself go. You know what
my life has been. I don’t believe I could stay living
if I had to suffer again as I have suffered, and on the
face of it it seems inevitable if I allow myself to love
Robin. Remember he is only a boy, impulsive and
emotional and highly sensitive to atmosphere. He has
had little opportunity yet of knowing other women—
but he will have. He is rich and good-looking, and
when he does meet them —beautiful girls, girls of his
own age—is he going to stay bound to Myrna Holt,
a woman of twenty-nine or thirty, with whom he fell
in love in a moment of unhappiness and isolation?
No! You know and I know it’s not to be expected,
not natural. And yet —Elsie, I want him so.”
“Then marry him quickly, my dear ; if you’re
with him you can hold him. Any woman can who
really loves a man. Think, too, what he can give
you—a gorgeous home, position and comfort and
travel —all the things that you love, all the things that
you deserve.”
“Oh, don’t! Haven’t I thought of this? I believe
I must love him better than I know, for material
comforts mean so much to me and yet they count
for so little when weighed against his youth. What
have /to offer against this? An ageing body and a
love that has been tortured and all but annihilated.
And it’s his youth I want, his fresh, clean young self.
Have I any right to take it? Can I let myself believe
that it is mine to take?”
“You poor dear!” Mrs. Glasson put her arms
around Myrna. “You must forget that wretched
time —it’s past and done with. Take happiness when
it comes to you, and only think you’re starting life
with Robin. It must be right—l feel it is. If I could
see this man of yours I’d be more certain.”
“Then you’ll have your wish to-morrow. He’s
coming down to-night. His arm is practically right
again, but they will not let him work with it yet, so
he is coming to Sydney for a week’s holiday. It was
the unexpectedness of this visit, I think, that frightened
me when I read his letter. We were not hoping to
see each other until the autumn, and when I found
that he would be with me to-morrow I was afraid ; I
didn't want him to come ... Ido now.”
“You must bring him out to dinner. Not
to-morrow —Wednesday. I’ll put on a special spread.
What does he like to eat, Myrna?”
Myrna laughed. “I don’t know. The only meal
we’ve ever had together was sandwiches, and coffee
out of a thermos.”
ROBIN spent the week in Sydney with Myrna. They
went together to theatres and spent days on the
beaches and wandering around the foreshores of the
harbor, a part of Sydney hitherto unknown to Robin,
where he discovered quaintness and beauty that
astonished and delighted him. Myrna suggested a
trip to Macquarie, but Robin, though he would have
liked to see the school again, had no wish to renew
acquaintance with Dr. Bolte, and this could hardly
have been avoided had they gone. Boyd Freeman
had lunch with them one day, and Robin was pleased
to see how happily he and Myrna got along together.
He would have liked to have Boyd to himself for a
longer line, but this was not possible, and the best
they could do was to arrange that Boyd should spend
his next vacation with Robin at Malwa.
It was a strange, unresponsive Myrna that Robin
had met on his arrival, and his eager anticipation of
this, their first meeting since the schooldays, had
received a check that he could not understand and
that left him floundering in a sea of uncertainties.
It was not until the day before his visit ended that
enlightenment came, and when it did it increased
rather than lessened the problems that were com-
mencing to gather around him.
At the close of one windless, sunbathed day
which he felt should have been perfect, but during
which, do what he would, he had managed to come
no closer to this new and disturbing Myrna, Robin
in desperation had asked “What does it all mean?
1 came to you with the memory of that last day at
school singing inside me, certain that the same
memories would be part of you, eager for your under-
standing and your comradeship, and I found —I don’t
know what ; something I don’t understand, a barrier
between us. Is it me? Don’t you really love me?”
“Would I be with you now if I didn’t? Would
I kiss you?”
“You haven’t kissed me. You’ve let me kiss
you, and that’s a different thing—part of what I don’t
understand.”
“Robin, listen to me ; take time to think, and
answer truthfully what I ask. Are you as sure now
as ever you were that you love me?”
“Just as certain.”
“You want me to marry you?”
“Of course I do.”
“When?”
‘Why, as soon as we can. I hadn’t thought just
when. There’s so much to be done first. A home,
everything. Father has promised to let me manage
Wilga Downs, and I expect we would go there first.
But not for a few years. There’s all my work at
home. Half—more than half —the running of Malwa
is in my hands now.”
“And in the meantime?”
“I don’t quite know what you mean.”
“What are we going to do with life, you and I—
that part of life that we share together—while all
these years pass by?”
“I will come to you when I can —but it can’t be
often—and you, of course, must come to Malwa
when they know. There will be letters” Robin
floundered and looked hopelessly at Myrna.
“You dear boy, do you realise that I am twenty-
eight, that after those few years have gone I will be
thirty-something?”
“I had not thought. But does it really matter
to you and me?”
“Of course it does —to both of us. You do not
want an old, withered creature for a wife, nor do I
want to wait till more than half my life is over before
I marry. Robin, how much do you know about me?
Nothing, really. I should have told you before, but
there has been so little time. Those weeks at Mac-
quarie were too perfect to spoil, and it did not seem
necessary then. I couldn’t write about it, but I want
to tell you now. Before you knew me I was engaged
to marry a man —I’ll tell you his name some day, but
it’s not important. I was twenty-two when I first
met him, and I loved him with every bit of me ;
more, I think, than I can ever love anyone again.
I’m sorry if I’m hurting you, but it’s true. My people
are not well-off, and his were rich. We were engaged
for four years, and sometimes I used to wonder when
we would be married, but he said —just as you have
said—that there was so much to be done first, and
later that it was his mother who did not want him to
marry just yet. And all this time we were longing
for each other. Then at last he told me that every-
thing was ready ; we would be married in the spring.
1 was given presents —lovely things, Robin. Together
we chose furniture and curtains and pictures for our
new home. I bought clothes with the money 1 had
saved, pretty things, dainty things, for him. The
dresses I wore when you first met me had been chosen
to please another man.”
From under his hand Robin watched her face.
It was chalk-white, and she staring over his head,
unseeing. In a dead, toneless voice she went on.
“A month before our wedding day he came to
see me. He was in Sydney for just three days, and
those three days were the most wonderful I have ever
known. In all that time we were never apart, night
or day. I did not hesitate then —I do not regret it
now. When he had been gone from me a week a
letter came saying that it had all been a ghastly
mistake, begging me to forgive him; he did not,
could not, love me. I have not seen him since.”
Inside Robin emotions were struggling for
expression. Something warned him that if he touched
her now she would hate him for it. He wanted to
convince her that nothing mattered that while he
lived she could never be hurt again ; that he could
make her love him more than she had ever loved that
other man. But it was hopeless ; he could find no
words to tell her this. In a little while she spoke
again.
“Well, do you want me still?”
He stretched out his hand shyly, begging for
hers. “Is there any need to ask me that?”
“Knowing that I have nothing to match with
your fresh, clean youth but soiled middle-age?”
Robin said I am not immaculate,” and instantlv
felt a fool.
ear » impossible kid! If for nothing else,
1 have to love you for the ridiculous things
you say.” She tugged at his arm, drawing him closer
until she could kiss him.
2| LONE that night, thinking it all over, Robin
” realised that now, whatever happened, he could not
let her go, and the inevitableness of it made him
uncomfortable almost, he thought reluctantly, as
though he was in a trap. He had no doubt of his
love, but for the first time he realised that he was far
from willing to give up his own independence: Also,
he felt that in fairness to Myrna he could not ask
her to wait too long. He would have to tell his
father and mother, and he knew that neither of them
would look favorably on Myrna Holt as a wife for
their son. It was all very disturbing, just when he
was settling down to the running of Malwa and getting
closer than he had ever been to a sympathetic friend-
ship with his father. Well, it couldn’t be helped ;
there was no way round it now. After all, Myrna was
worth any sacrifice he may be forced to make. One
more day of his holiday was left; he would make the
most of that.
Robin’s train left at 8.30 that night, and they had
arranged to spend the afternoon together at Elsie
Glasson’s flat and to have a late dinner in town so
that Myrna could see him off on the train. In the
morning he was at a loose end, and, wandering aim-
lessly through the streets, he came suddenly face-to-
face with Brand Stewart, back from India and just
off the ship. It was a happy meeting for both of
them. They drank black coffee and ate hard, sweet
biscuits in a fantastically strange underground cafe
which Brand said he had discovered years before and
had patronised ever since. The biscuits were some-
thing quite new to Robin, and the coffee was excellent.
He was intrigued and delighted with the bizarre sur-
roundings. Years later he came to know the place
very well, and until it was closed and finally blotted
out it never lost one iota of its first fascinating appeal.
In the excitement of seeing his uncle again, and
so unexpectedly, Robin told him of his love for
Myrna, and ended by explaining the position and
asking an opinion on the plans he proposed for the
future.
Brand gave him a smile. “When a man asks for
advice,” he said, “it nearly always means that he is
really seeking confirmation and approval of his own
ideas. No man can make up another man’s mind
for him, and it seems that yours is already made up.
I won’t give you advice ; you’ll have to puzzle it all
out for yourself; but if I can help you I certainly
will. If you would like it, I would speak to Donald.
I know your father better than you do, Robin. You
disappointed him once very badly, and I know that
then he could not see your side of the question at all.
I’m telling you this so that you won’t go blundering
in with your eyes shut as soon as you get home. Wait
for a while if you can, but when you feel you must
have it out with him remember this: Malwa means
more to him than anything in life. He’d make any
personal sacrifice for it, and, reasonably or unreason-
ably, he’ll expect you to do the same.”
“But I would.”
“Then that’s all right. Just another point-—he’s
got a damned rotten temper ; we all have —don’t both
of you lose it at the same time.”
Robin laughed. “And you said you wouldn’t
give me any advice.”
“That’s not advice ; that’s a warning like a
bellbuoy ringing over a hidden reef. Advice would
be ‘Don’t go to sea at all.’ When are you going
home?”
“To-night.”
“What a pity. We could have put in a day or
two together very well. Can’t you stay a while
longer?”
“I’m afraid not. I’ve been off duty long enough
now, waiting for my arm to knit.”
“What did you do with the old horse?”
“They burnt him while I was in bed. I wanted
to bring him into the stallion paddock and bury him
beside Romany. Father would have had it done
but it was too late ; the Martins had burnt him.”
“It’s better that way,” said Brand. “I don’t like
graves. He was a grand old horse.”
“When will you be coming back to Malwa?
Can you come home with me to-night?”
“No. I don’t know when I’ll be coming. I’ve
been off-color a bit and I came back chiefly to see a
doctor. I may have to go into hospital for a while.”
“Then have dinner with us to-night—with Myrna
and me. That would be splendid if you could. I
want you to meet her.”
“Yes, I can do that—if you’re sure you want
me. This afternoon I’m going to see two people:
Emily Pollock she’s a full-blown nurse now, you
know —and Bella Milsom. It’s a pity you can’t come
with me to see Bella. She’s just the same as ever
and gives me the rough side of her tongue every time
we meet. It’s pretty rough, too, believe me.”
Chapter XVIII
¥N the autumn of the following year
| Robin wrote to his uncle, again in
,f| hospital, saying he could wait no
longer and asking that Brand should
write to Donald on his behalf and pave
the way for the interview that he dreaded. Myrna
was becoming more and more restless, and her last
letter amounted practically to an ultimatum—either
they should make some definite plans or abandon
the idea of ever marrying. She had an opportunity,


she said, of going to England with Elsie Glasson,
who wanted someone to look after her young children.
If she accepted, Myrna wrote, she would never come
back.
Robin was worried and unhappy. He felt, in a
moment of depression, that this would probably be
the best way out, but the fact that he should even
momentarily harbor such a thought shocked him and
made him more than ever determined to consider
nothing but Myrna’s happiness and to delay no longer
in going to his father. The time, too, seemed oppor-
tune.
Mary Stewart and Nora were in Sydney, and
Robin felt that, with his mother out of the way and
he and his father thrown more into each other’s com-
pany, they had better hope of coming to a friendly
understanding.
Mary and Nora had been carried off to Sydney
for the autumn racing carnival by William Graham.
Robin disliked his Uncle Graham as heartily as he
loved and admired Brand Stewart. William Graham,
he thought, was a pompous snob and obsessed by
an overwhelming sense of his own importance. Brand,
Robin knew, had the greatest contempt for Mary
Stewart’s brother, and took little trouble to hide it ;
and, though Graham and Donald got along well
enough, Robin doubted the sincerity of their friend-
ship. He remembered once as a very small boy going
to a Highland gathering with his father and his Uncle
Brand. William Graham had been there, resplen-
dent in kilt and plaid, with a great cairngorm brooch
on his shoulder and a jewelled skean in his stocking.
Robin remembered his father’s startled exclamation:
“Good God, Brand, what tartan is the man wearing
now?”
And Brand’s scornful reply: “MacGregor a
Highland clan —to which he has no more right than
he has to the Hunting Stewart he wore last year. He's
not a Highlander at all. His grandfather was a Tyne-
side blacksmith, and the nearest claim he can make
to kilted ancestry is through Mickle Willie Grame,
a border thief who went raiding in a nightshirt. If
you want to dodge him come and listen to the pipers
‘blawing ane against ither’—he won’t come there.
A Sassenach chief may be bonnily built,
He may purchase a sporran, a bonnet and kilt,
Stick a skean in his hose, wear an acre of stripes —
But he cannot assume an affection for pipes.’ ”
\ki ILLIAM had come to Malwa in a huge and
luxurious motor-car driven by a uniformed
chauffeur. He had arrived on Friday afternoon and
in the middle of a tennis party. Friday was a regular
tennis day at Malwa, and although Robin was seldom
present on such occasions it happened that he had
stayed at home on this afternoon, chiefly to speak
to Bob Hare and make arrangements for the annual
meeting of the polo club, to be held at Burnt Plains
the following day. William had made sarcastic
comments about people who could afford to play
games on a week-day, and remarked how, when he
was a boy... Robin, who nearly always worked
both Saturday and Sunday, paid little attention, but
he was annoyed when he found he had to play guide
on the following day and conduct Uncle William
on a tour of the property.
Graham, the broker, who thought 6f wool only
as a saleable commodity, expressed a wish to see
what the Malwa clip would be like this year. Wool
prices, he said, would be higher than ever next sales,
and he suggested that Donald should class more
deeply than usual, making a small super line of just
enough bales to keep out the star lots. He expressed
surprise that the stock work had been handed over
to Robin, lifting a deprecatory eyebrow and saying
that it might be all right if he sent a classer up from
the stores at shearing-time. Robin fumed, but said
nothing. Since his uncle wanted to see the growing
wool, it meant that mobs of sheep would have to be
yarded or held in the paddock with dogs while indi-
vidual animals were caught and carried to Graham
for inspection. Lambs were just starting to drop,
and Robin swore that his uncle would have to content
himself with wethers and a mob of maiden ewes ; the
hoggets and the breeding ewes he would not have
disturbed.
“Thank God,” he thought, “he has no interest in
cattle. I won’t have to take him on to the river, and
may get away by lunch-time.” But Graham, it seemed,
was especially interested in the farming. The. firm
dealt in produce as well as wool, and he was anxious
to handle the Malwa wheat, which up till this season
had been sold to the mill in Clune. So Robin’s day
was spoilt. The meeting of the polo club would
have to go through without him. In a black mood
he took his uncle around, listened without comment
to his disparaging remarks about the culling of the
flock, the foolishness of lambing in autumn, and the
need for a different sheep-dip, and waited with bored
impatience while Graham measured the depth of the
tilled earth in the cultivation field.
On Sunday morning Graham departed in the
great car with Mary and Nora sitting in the back
seat, pleasantly excited and tightly veiled against
the sun and wind. Robin waved to them as they
rolled down the drive, and laughed when he saw
Paddy Glyn’s head thrust round the corner of the
house, his mouth open and his eyes wide. The old
man shook his head dubiously and, coming to the
front of the house, touched Donald on the arm.
“Boss,” he said solemnly, “I wouldn’t let my
missus ride in one of them bloody things—not to save
her life I wouldn’t. They’ll be smashed to death, if
they’re not kilt entirely before they reach Beni Cross-
ing.”
ROBIN knew that both his mother and his father,
though they had not spoken of it, must have some
inkling of his. attachment to Myrna, but he would
have been surprised and alarmed had he known that
Mary Stewart’s chief reason for going to Sydney was
to sever with one ruthless cut any bonds that might
be holding her son to a scheming adventuress, as she
considered Myrna Holt must be. Through friends in
Sydney she had discovered all she cared to know
about Myrna that the girl was years older than
Robin, that her family was poor and of no social
importance. She told nothing of her plans to Donald,
fearing that he might take the boy’s part, but, having
taken her brother into her confidence, she wrote from
his pretentious home inviting Myrna to afternoon-tea.
Myrna was pleased when she received the invita-
tion, for the note, though formal, seemed friendly
enough, and she imagined that Robin had confided
in his mother and arranged this meeting, though she
wondered that he had not written to tell her so. It
was not long before she was disillusioned.
Her entry into the Graham mansion, she thought
afterwards, was like plunging into a cold and
dangerous lake. The unfriendly grandeur of it chilled
her before ever she met its inmates ; and long before
she was left alone with Mary Stewart in the great
drawing-room with its seeming acres of polished floor,
its rich-toned rugs, its cabinets of priceless china, its
garish pictures, she knew that Robin had had nothing
to do with the invitation and that she had been
enticed to a torture-chamber where she would be
humiliated and then crushed.
Mary Stewart had received her with a cold smile,
Mrs. Graham had been formally correct, but the
Graham children, a tall girl of nineteen and a boy
a year older and far too fat for his age, had been
almost openly insulting. Actually, their rudeness
helped Myrna, rousing in her a resentful anger that
carried her through the dangerous period of afternoon-
tea, when the whole family were doing their utmost
to make her feel small and uncomfortable, and pre-
pared her for the even more dangerous time which
she knew must come when she would be left alone
with Mary. One welcome, however, Myrna would
never forget, contrasting as it did with the friendless
smiles and flaccid handshakes. Nora, Robin’s sister,
tall, slim, with serious grey eyes and very like Robin
himself, had put her arms around her impulsively and
kissed her. But Nora had gone out almost immedi-
ately, not waiting for tea.
One by one the Grahams left the room, Clive
first, then Molly, and finally Mrs. Graham. Myrna
thought grimly “Well, the time’s come. I wonder
what the first broadside will be.”
She was not to be left long in doubt. Mary,
looking at her suddenly, said “1 suppose you have
been wondering why I asked you to come and see
me, Myrna—or would you rather I called you Miss
Holt?”
Ignoring the second part of the question and
smarting under the studied insults she had been forced
to endure, Myrna decided to bring matters to a head
as quickly as possible. “No,” she answered. “You
brought me here to show me that I was neither a fit
nor acceptable wife for your son.”
“The possibility of your actually marrying Robin
never entered my head,” Mary said coldly. “It’s
really too absurd. The difference in your ages, if
nothing else.”
“What else could there be?”
“My dear girl, I don’t want to hurt you. Is there
any need to go into these details? I can’t make myself
believe that you ever seriously considered marriage
with Robin. I wanted to bring you to a realisation
of your unfairness to the boy in playing with his
affections as you are doing. You know it can lead
to nothing. It’s cruel and unworthy of you to let it
go on any longer.”
“That, surely, is for Robin to say. If he wanted
to be free of me 1 would not try to hold him ; I want
you to believe me —I have never encouraged Robin.
There is no argument that you could put forward
that I have not already thrashed out in my own mind.
Do you think that I have nothing to lose? Do you
think that I could bring myself easily to believe in
the lasting love of a schoolboy? As you say, it is
absurd ; it must be absurd. Yet I have come to
believe—l do believe, against my will and against my
better judgment —I have come to love him with all
my soul.”
In spite of herself, Mary was moved. She asked
a curious question, and knew what the answer would
be. “Does Robin know this?”
“No.”
“Then your task is easier—l don’t mean easier
for you, but easier of accomplishment. If you love
him you must surely see more clearly that you can
bring him nothing but unhappiness, and make ultimate
misery for yourself, too. A boy of twenty-one may
love a woman of twenty-eight, but what is the man
of twenty-eight going to do? Robin some day wifi
be a very rich man. Please don’t misunderstand me ;
my estimate of you is not the same now as it was
before I met you. His need is for a young wife, an
ambitious wife, who will not be content to let him
bury himself in the country, who will bring to him
added wealth and social interests, urging him on to a
career that his brains and ability deserve. We both
love him. And lam his mother. Love has not come
much into my life —and when it did it was too late.”
Mary moved restlessly. She was looking away
from Myrna as she continued. “Denied, frustrated,
cooped up in a prison, all the affection that was in me
has gone out to this one son. 1 believe now that his
attachment to you has been good for him rather than
harmful; it would stop him from doing things he
might otherwise do ; but you must see that it can’t
go on, and it would be better, kinder to him, to break
it off now. I must tell you, too, that neither his
father nor I will help him if he insists on carrying
through this mad dream.”
She looked straight at Myrna again from under
level brows. “I want you to understand clearly that
you would not be marrying riches. I don’t know
how much this counts with you —I’m willing to believe
it has little weight—but are you going to stand between
Robin and his birthright? This is not an idle threat;
I mean it most emphatically. Promise me that you
will give him up, that you will write and tell him you
can never love him. Or, if you wish, don’t write at
all —go out of his life ; let him forget you.”
“You don’t seem to realise that I have already
considered all this,” Myrna said wearily. “At least
nearly aIL It never occurred to me that he would lose
Malwa if he married me.”
“If that were all I would not stand in your way.
I would welcome the wife who took him away from
the land, but you wouldn’t do that.”
“No,” Myrna said, “I wouldn’t. It would be the
cruellest thing to do. His whole soul is wrapped up
in it. His letters Oh, what does it matter? I
think you’ve won. It’s the thought of his having to
leave Malwa and everything that he holds most dear.
I would never want him to do that. I won’t promise
you anything. I don’t know myself yet.”
“Promise me this,” Mary said almost in a whisper
—“that you won’t tell him anything about this meet-
ing. I don’t want him to hate me.”
“Very well, I’ll promise you that.”
ROBIN found Brand Stewart’s letter waiting for
him when he came in from work at night. He
read it again when he had had his bath and was ready
for dinner. Brand wrote:
“/ have written to your father; he will get
my letter the same day that you get this. I
have done what 1 could, but I’m uneasy about
it. Your mother came to see me yesterday,
and it seems that she and Donald have already
discussed the matter and are more or less wait-
ing for you to move. If what she tells me is
right, you’re up against pretty solid opposition,
and / feel that perhaps / should not have per-
suaded you to wait. If you had barged in
months ago as you wanted to you might have
had better luck —got your point of view over
before they had time to get their heads together.
As it is, just thank heaven your mother’s away
and don’t lose your temper. Good luck.”
Robin thrust the letter into his pocket and went
in to dinner. He ate alone with his father in the
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


:(f
me
%1
m
- :—.v
vr
A
NEUI
ZEALAND
-Picturesque
-Marvellous
1 =^ilr
ONLY 3 DAYS BY FAST
LUXURIOUS LINER
Come to New Zealand this Summer lor
a holiday which will linger in your
memory . . . this Summer's vacation is
more important than ever. No ordinary
trip can repair the strain of recent years
. . . so come to New Zealand. Forget
yourself in the scenic grandeurs of per-
manently snow-capped peaks . . . leave
care behind you as you thrill to the
majesty of gigantic glaciers or marvel at
the strange thermal wonders and weird
underground caves. Fish . . . shoot . . .
golf ... or hike over winding trails that
lead you by wooded lakes . . . tumbling
streams, or to the pinnacle of some over-
topping mountain.
New Zealand is a wonderland ... no
other country in the world provides all
its manifold attractions . . . see it this
Summer.
For further particulars:
GOVERNMENT
14 MARTIN PLACE
SYDNEY
(Directly opp. G.P.0.)
Tel. B 7043
ê
Write, Call or 'Phone:
TOURIST BUREAU
COLLINS HOUSE
360 COLLINS ST., MELB.
Tel. Cent 3110
KING HOUSE, QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
long dining-room. It was an uncomfortable meal, and
both of them were glad when it was over. As though
the interview had been prearranged, they carried their
coffee into the office, where Donald sat at his desk
and Robin in the big armchair.
Donald came straight to the point.
“So you want to get married,” he said ; “and
again you’ve left it to someone else to fight your battle
for you. Why can’t you come to me yourself, like
any other son would? What is it? Are you afraid
of me? I wouldn’t like to think that.”
“No,” Robin said, “I’m not afraid. I would have
come to you months ago, but Uncle Brand asked me
to wait. I believe he thought 1 might change my
mind.”
“But why go to Brand in the first place? Why
not straight to me? However, that’s beside the
point. You want to marry Myrna Holt. When?”
“As soon as I can. That is what I want to talk
over with you.”
“And what do you propose to marry on?”
“I don’t know. 1 expected that you would help me.”
“And if I refuse to help you?”
“Then I would have to help myself. I hadn't
thought you would refuse.”
“You mean that you are ready to leave Malwa
for this silly infatuation?”
Robin felt unfairly done-by. The interview was
not running along the lines he expected. He was
confused and did not know how to bring forward
his points nor what points to bring forward. It had
been a mistake, he told himself, to ask Brand Stewart
to write, as it had been a mistake to allow Mr. Stone
to write after his failure in the Senior. He was not
prepared for this kind of cross-examination, and
already he felt hot with rising temper. In a desperate
attempt to bring things to a more reasonable footing
he asked his father “How long do you expect me to
stay at Malwa, working for you?”
“Always, I hope—at least until I die. Malwa
will be your own then.”
“And am I not to marry until then?”
Donald did not reply at once, when he did
it was in a more friendly tone. “It would, of course,
be unreasonable to expect you to wait for my death
before you brought home a wife, but at present you’re
far too young to think of marrying. I was married
when I was thirty.”
“Did you want to get married before then?”
“No,” Donald admitted ; “but I don’t see what
that has to do with it. You are twenty-one; too
young, probably, to know your own mind, and cer-
tainly too young to shoulder the responsibilities of a
wife and family.”
“I don’t want to get married to-morrow !” Robin
said impatiently.
“Then we can talk about it again in a year’s
time—you will probably have got over this foolish-
ness by then.”
Again Robin felt that the discussion was drifting
away from him into dangerous channels. Wait for
a while. Wasn’t this just what he wanted himself?
He felt a subtle, insinuating urge to drop the matter
now —to write and tell Myrna that he had done his
best and that it would be better to wait for a year
before making any definite plans. Furious with him-
self for the thought, he burst out hotly “I’m not
going to wait. That’s what you said about the
University. You wonder why I don’t come to you
to talk things over, and when I do you say ‘Wait —
we’ll discuss it another time’! I’m not going to wait.
It’s the same now as it was then.”
“And I suppose you intend to take the same
high-handed action in this case as you did over the
matriculation business.”
“Yes, I will.”
“Very well. I suppose 1 can’t stop you, but J
certainly won’t encourage you. I don’t approve of
your marrying, and I don’t approve of the girl you
want to marry. If you had any love for Malwa or
any regard for your mother or me you would not
mind waiting.”
“It’s not for my own sake,” Robin said ; it’s for
Myrna. It’s not fair to ask her to wait indefinitely.”
“So that’s it!” Donald’s tone was bitingly
sarcastic. “You’ve been put up to this by her. I
thought it likely. If she had any deep affection for
you she would not mind waiting.”
“You don’t understand the circumstances.”
“I think I do. She is many years older than you,
I believe, and —not well off.”
Robin stood up. He was shaking with temper.
“There is only one question for you to answer,” he
said. “What are you going to do —will you help me
or will you kick me out? If you want to turn me
out you’d better do it now.”
“You insolent pup! Who spoke of turning you
out?” Donald’s voice was raised to a shout, and
Robin, past caring what might happen, said with a
twisted lip:
“Didn’t Uncle Brand tell you not to lose your
temper?” The effect of his words was quite unex-
pected. Donald laughed.
“No ; but he warned me that you would. You
hot-headed young fool, I’m sorry if I hurt your feel-
ings about the girl. I had no right to, and I didn’t
really mean it. I don’t know her, of course, but she
seems to have made almost as big an impression on
Brand as she has on you. However, I consider the
match an impossible one. Your mother and I have
talked it over and you will get no concession from
her. I am going to make you a proposition, and I
want you to think it over very carefully before you
decide. If you insist on marrying Myrna Holt you
must give up all thought of ever owning Malwa.
When you are twenty-three you may marry, if you
are still determined that way. I will give you Lammas
and stock it for you, but you may expect nothing
more from me —now or after my death. I will not
break that promise and I will not alter with regard
to Malwa.”
“Thank you,” Robin said; “I can give you my
answer now. I will take Lammas.”
Donald looked shrewdly at his son.
“Very well,” he said. “No doubt you’re right;
you wouldn’t change your mind in a month or so.
Lammas should bring you in a thousand a year. My
income when I married was less than five hundred.”
They sat staring awkwardly at each other. Donald
said, half to himself, “I suppose you can’t make
another man’s life for him, and all our dreams fade ...
I hope you’ll be happy.”
He lapsed into silence again, and after a while
Robin asked “Can I draw what wages are owing to
me?”
“Certainly. Will they be enough? What do you
want the money for?”
“I want to buy a ring for Myrna.”
“I’ll pay for that,” Donald said gruffly. “Get
what you want.”
Chapter XIX .
Jk SAVAGE wind, white with sleet,
A drove out of the south, wrenching
at the branches of the trees and
flattening down the few remaining
tufts of dead and blackening grass. The
Witcn, ner clipped skin rough and staring, bowed her
head to it, snatching at the bit and angling first to
one side and then to the other in an endeavor to turn
her rump to the bitter charge. Even Donald
Stewart’s stout cob, with all the protection of its
heavy winter coat, seemed reluctant to go forward.
The lean-bellied ewes, with humped backs and search-
ing noses, drew slowly into the wind, with little care
for their lambs, which had drifted to the rear of the
flock, bleating feebly, Jheir small, starved faces turned
pathetically towards the dogs, which were hurrying
backwards and forwards in an almost hopeless effort
to keep the sheep moving.
A hot and rainless summer had been followed
by a still drier autumn, and belated rain falling in
June had made conditions even worse for the suffer-
ing stock. What little dry grass Was left had rotted
and become useless
through the sodden
days. Good rain had
fallen, and tarvine,
crowfoot and clover
would soon be cover-
ing the ground ; but in
the meantime the stock,
already weak, were
losing condition faster
than before, running
around hunting for the
first green shoots.
Robin was not
very worried about the
dry sheep ; there would
be losses, of course, but
the majority of them
would pull through.
His chief concern was
for the ewes with
lambs. Both mothers
and offspring had suf-
fered severely. The
ewes had had little milk
to give when the lambs
were born, and the
bitter weather following
the rain was taking a
deadly toll. What was
needed, Robin knew,
was a spell on green-
feed while the herbage
was growing, and for
the first time he blessed
the cultivation land,
where the young wheat
was springing rich and
life - giving. In other
years, good years when
there was grass in
plenty, he had turned
sheep into the cultiva-
tion fields, not for the
sake of the sheep but
to check the rampant
growth of the wheat —
to make it stool out so
that many stout stems
would grow in place of
a few that would be
lank and spindly. Don-
ald, of course, agreed,
and earlier in the week
Robin had seen Carl
Schreiber and the first
mob of ewes and lambs
had been driven into
his wheat.
*T HERE were now
■ seven farmers on
Malwa and 3000 acres
of well-advanced crop
that would stand plenty
of eating-back. Enough,
Robin thought, to save
every lamb. He was
surprised, then, to find
the farmers oppose his
scheme. Schreiber had
been only too pleased
to take the sheep, but
the others had been very much against it and the
Martins had refused point-blank. His first warning
of trouble came from Clare Schreiber.
“Don’t ask them,” she said. “Get your father
to see them.”
“But why?” Robin asked. “They’ve all had sheep
on before.”
“It’s not that,” Clare told him, “though they’ll
make some excuse —that the wheat is too young or
something. The Martins are at the bottom of it.
They hate me, and they’ve got you set for some
reason—and the others don’t like you. They think
you’re stuck-up because you never speak to them, and
they’re jealous because you come here to see Carl
and me.”
Donald laughed scornfully when Robin told him.
“Take the sheep down,” he said. “Tell Martin I
said they were to go in.”
“There’ll be trouble,” Robin warned him. “I’d
be very glad if you would see them, or, better still,
come down with me. You see, they don’t recognise
me —you are the boss, and no one else.”
So in the end Donald came. Passing along the
boundary of Schreiber’s land they saw the first mob
spread over the wheat. Though they had been in
only a few days there was already a marked difference
between the sheep on the green-feed and those they
were driving, a difference especially noticable in the
lambs. Clare waved to them as they passed the
cottage and moved slowly down to Martin’s paddocks.
Eight men huddled in overcoats stood in a group
at the entrance to Martin’s field, and Donald shouted
to them to open the gate. Perhaps the wind carried
his voice away, for the men made no movement, and
Donald rode forward to them. The sheep checked
and some of the ewes came back through the flock
to find their lambs. Robin let The Witch have her
way and she promptly turned her rump to the wind.
Over his shoulder Robin saw his father, sitting
square and heavy-looking on the fat cob, facing the
men. They stayed like this for quite a time. He
could hear the mumble of the farmers’ voices, and
then Donald’s raised in anger. Leaving the dogs to
hold the sheep, he turned the reluctant mare and rode
up beside his father.
“But what are you men objecting to?” Donald
was saying. “You’ve had sheep on your wheat
before.”


Tom Donovan said “Not after rain. The
ground’s as soft as porridge ; they’d ruin the crop
now, trample it into the ground so as it’d never come
up again.”
“Damned rot!” Donald laughed angrily. “Of
course it won’t hurt the wheat. Schreiber’s as good a
farmer as any of you, and he has let sheep in.”
Someone laughed, and Paddy Kelly shouted “And
what payment might he be gettin’ for that —and for
other things?”
“Martin!” Donald spoke crisply, “are you going
to open that gate?”
Frank Martin stepped forward ; he had a double-
barrelled gun in his hands. “I am not,” he said.
“Then you’ll do no more farming on Malwa.”
“With the Lord’s help I will. My contract gives
me five years on this ground.”
“Read your contract again. You’ll find it gives
me grazing rights and the right to run sheep on the
crop in case of need.”
“In case of need for the wheat, Mr. Stewart, and
by mutual consent; we’ve all read our contracts, and
them rights you speak of don’t include the right to
ruin our crops.”
“Look at the sheep, man! Are you going to let
those lambs perish?”
“It is better that the beasts should perish than
that I should take the bread out of the mouths of the
lambs the Lord has given me. I’ll shoot the first
sheep that comes through that gate.’ 1
Robin was furious. Leaning over, he spoke to
his father. “Oh, don’t argue with the man —he’s mad.
I’ll cut the fence higher up and take them in. He
won’t shoot them.”
Martin took a step forward. His eyes were
blazing, and he shook the gun in Robin’s face. “Child
of the devil!” he shouted. “If the beasts are dying
it’s the Lord’s curse on you for whoredom and
lechery ; clipping and kissing and whoring under the
very eyes of the blind fool who’s feeding your sheep.
It’s abomination —sin and abomination!”
ROBIN touched the red mare with the spurs and
she plunged forward. Her shoulder struck Martin
on the chest, knocking him flat and sending the gun
spinning. Robin heard it explode as he jumped to
the ground. Paddy Kelly helped Harry Martin to
pull his brother from under the mare’s plunging
hooves and Donald leant forward, grabbing Robin
by the shoulder. “You fool,” he said.
Robin was not to be denied. Twisting free, he
swung under the neck of the cob, looking for Martin.
But the man, it seemed, was badly hurt. One hand
was pressed to his side, his face was covered in mud,
and a calkin on one of The Witch’s shoes had cut
deeply into his cheek. Robin turned angrily. One
of the men had caught the excited mare, and, snatching
the bridle from him, Robin mounted again without
speaking.
The gunshot seemed to have sobered the men.
They talked together for a minute and then Free-
lander, a good farmer and one of the quietest of
them, came over to Donald. “It’s no use, Mr.
Stewart,” he said. “Maybe you’re right and it wouldn’t
hurt the wheat —myself I don’t think it would, and I
said so this morning. But most of them are set
against it and we all agreed to stick together.”
“Very well.” Donald turned to Robin. “You’d
better take them up to the limestone country ; they’ll
at least get shelter there and some picking in the
hollows. Bring the horses down to the house pad-
docks ; if any of them are weak you can hand-feed
them for a while.”
The weary flock started moving again. Donald
rode a little way with Robin. “I don’t know if there
is anything between you and Clare Schreiber. I don’t
want to know. But for everyone’s sake it would be
better if you kept away from the Schreibers.”
PONALD rode home slowly, sitting, as usual, square
and rocklike in the saddle. The sleet and the
howling wind were unnoticed now, their physical
discomfort submerged in the bitterness of his own
thoughts. “All our dreams fade,” he had said to
Robin.
In retrospect he lived again the years since his
boyhood. Dragged away from school just when, by
grit and stubborn determination —for he had never
shared Brand’s brilliance he was within sight of
success, he had come back to a home without a
mother, to a drunken father and a property heavily
mortgaged and rapidly going to pieces. No one not
even Brand, who shared more intimacies with him
than anyone else would ever know how he had
worked and schemed and saved to pull together the
failing fortunes of the Stewarts. No one to advise
him, nowhere to turn for help. With the same self-
reliance and doggedness that had served him at school
he had won through, beating neglect and drunkenness,
loneliness and poverty, and managing at the same time
to keep his young brother at Macquarie.
Brand had been his first disappointment. A splen-
did brain and a splendid body; both had been
neglected and misused, and now at forty-five this
brilliant young brother was a homeless ne'er-do-well,
a drunkard, a man without a purpose in life, suffering
from a disease they had been afraid to mention to
each other but which both of them knew was cancer.
Donald thought of Mary Graham, whom he had
married twenty-six years before. What dreams he
had had then, dreams that he knew now had never
been shared by her. He had seen her and loved her,
and with a single mind had set about marrying her.
He doubted if she had ever wanted to marry him, and
he realised now that she had fought against it but
had been overwhelmed and beaten by his tenacity of
purpose. Beaten, but not subdued. All their married
life she had fought him, not openly, but with a relent-
less antagonism that never yielded. He had momen-
tary fears that in the end she would beat him, force
him to forsake Malwa. Would the revenge—he would
not shirk the word—be complete and satisfying? He
was growing old and weary of the struggle ; even now
he was giving way in places where he would not have
budged in earlier years. It was Mary who had per-
suaded him to take the stand he had over Robin’s
marriage. He would never have thought of threaten-
ing the boy with the loss of Malwa —and now that
was done ; irrevocably done, it seemed.
How he had worked and schemed and saved in
the early days, building up an inheritance for his son,
who would do all the things that he had not been
allowed to do —be the man that he could never be.
“All our dreams fade.” He was thinking now of the
wheat and share-farmers. How he had planned for
this little community to function under his dictator-
ship ; houses and gardens and farms ; wheat ready for
the railway when it came. None of his neighbors had
thought of this, but they were starting now, clearing
for wheat Burnt Plains, Mount Henry ; and the
smaller men creeping in, buying a few acres here, a
few acres there, nibbling bits from the larger holdings,
whose owners were in fear and trembling that their
land would be resumed and cut up for closer settle-
ment.
But he was three years ahead of them. He had
saved Malwa. Saved it for whom, and to what end?
So that he might be flouted openly by the people he
had befriended, and driven off his own land! Dreams
—all dreams!
HIS thoughts kept reverting to Robin. Had the boy
failed him, or was the boot perhaps on the other
foot? He was bitterly disappointed that they had never
been able to come together in close sympathy. He
wondered if the fault was his —if in the early days he
could have made more of a mate of his son. He had
taken Robin with him everywhere, taught him to ride
and to shoot, explained every detail of land and stock
management, and freely discussed his plans for Malwa
and the future. Were these, perhaps, superficial
things, interests that any teacher could have had in
common with a pupil? It was the problem of life
itself that they had never discussed —had avoided or
skirted around.
Donald hated emotionalism and extravagant senti-
ment. Very early in his life he had had to face real
difficulties and had choked in himself all sentimentality.
From early childhood he had checked sternly any
suspected tendency in Robin to self-pity or immature
unbalanced thought. Had he done his work too well,
forcing the boy to become introspective and secretive?
Or was it just that they were built along the same
lines, both seething with emotions which they kept
hidden, ashamed to acknowledge them?
Robin’s marriage! There had been so much
that he had wanted to say to the boy—so much, too,
he felt, that Robin had wanted to tell him, and yet
when they had come together the interview had lasted
barely half an hour. They had both lost their tempers
—not with each other, but with themselves. And they
had arrived at an unfortunate compromise which
neither of them wanted and without either of them
knowing what the other’s real feelings were.
This trouble with the share-farmers! Donald
felt, in a vaguely resentful way, that Robin had been
the cause of it. What truth there was in the allega-
tions against Robin and Clare Schreiber he did not
know. Here again was a subject they could never
discuss —he would not try, knowing that any such
discussion would be futile. Robin would tell him the
truth if he asked him ; he had no doubt of that; but
the truth, the bare facts, was only a part of what he
wanted to hear from his son.
Did it really matter much now whether he held
on to Malwa or not? He had been offered a good
price for the Kurrajong paddock; other outlying
blocks would sell readily. Why shouldn’t he? All
his neighbors were doing it—selling portions of their
runs to farmers. Mary was right; the day of the big
landowner was done.
The cob whinnied, and Donald, looking up, found
Malwa homestead close at hand. He saw the great
stone house that he had built on the site of the
sprawling wattle-and-daub bungalow that had been his
father’s and his grandfather’s home... The house,
the stables, the outbuildings, the woolshed, the trees
that four generations of Stewarts had planted.
He shook himself, sitting squarer than ever in
the saddle. Damn it all, he was only fifty-six! No,
no one would get Malwa yet —not any part of it —
not so long as he lived.
Chapter XX.
IFfgm HE Witch was wildly excited, reef-
| ing and plunging and fighting for
( |, her head. Robin, his hands stiff
with the cold, cursed her roundly,
and longed for the steady efficiency of
Black Harry. Not that the mare was a bad stock-
horse ; she was quick-footed and clever, could follow
and shoulder a bullock as well as any horse he had
ridden; and on the polo ground Robin had often
thought he could play her without a bridle, but with
a mob of twenty horses careering madly in front only
a mount of exceptional steadiness and experience
would keep its head.
Robin had had difficulty getting the horses away
from the limestone country. They kept breaking
back to their mates, which were left behind. He was
now faced with the problem of taking them across
the five miles of scrub and open country to the home
paddock. He should have left them till to-morrow
and brought the whole lot together, he thought, and
had another man to help him. It was getting late in
the afternoon, and if they kept breaking away like
this no amount of hard riding would get them home
before dark. If only he had a man with him to steady
the lead and draw them in the right direction, or even
old Watch. Suddenly the solution came to him. If
he could change his saddle on to one of the mob and
let the red mare go free she would lead them home
and there would be no more trouble. They 'were
running down the side of Schreiber’s cultivation
paddock now, and if he were quick he could head
them as they reached the cottage ahd turn them into
Schreiber’s stableyard.
“Keep away from the Schreibers.” Well, it
couldn’t be helped this time ; he had to yard them to
catch a horse, and, in any case, he intended to see
Clare once more at least. He gave the mare her head
and raced along the side of the mob, praying that
the entrance to the yard would be open.. He saw
Clare standing at the rails, and shouted to her as
he galloped. Quickly realising his purpose she dropped
the rails and ran out into the open, waving a bag.
The leaders checked and hesitated, but Robin’s whip
was snapping fiercely beside them, and, swerving to
the right, they poured through the gateway into the
spacious yard.
“Good work,” Robin grinned at Clare as he rode
through the opening. “I had to yard them somewhere.
I want to catch one and let the mare go to lead them
home.”
She helped him put the rails up and stood by
while he caught and saddled a horse. When he came
to let the horses out again she put her hand on his
arm.
“Don’t go yet.”
“I have no time,” he told her. “I must get this
lot home. But I want to see you ; I’ll come again
soon.”
“They’ll follow The Witch, and you’ll be to home
in less than an hour,” she begged. “Carl is away for
two days and it’s lonesome here alone. Come in and
set up to the fire for a spell and drink a dish of tea.”
Robin hesitated. He would have no trouble
getting home now. Why shouldn’t he stay? Of
course, with the horses in the yard, every share-farmer
in sight would know he was there. Damn them —let
them know. They’d already done their work.
Deliberately he walked into Schreiber’s stable
and came out with a rug, which he threw over the
sweating pony. Together he and Clare walked over
to the cottage. In the living-room there was a log
fire burning, warm and comfortable. She turned to
him as they entered, and he kissed her. She put up
her arms, clinging to him, murmuring “My dear, my
dear.”
IT was madness, Robin thought, this intimacy into
which he had drifted with Clare Schreiber. Drifted,
he admitted, was hardly the word. At first, perhaps,
it had been that way, but not afterwards ; not when
he knew all it entailed. Then he had come deliber-
ately, with full understanding of the harm he was
doing. In the beginning he had dropped into th:
cottage at odd times when he happened to be out
that way. He liked Carl and he liked Clare. Her
quaint speech, delivered in a soft drawl, amused
and delighted him. There was always a welcome for
him and a “dish of tea” to be shared.
He found himself going more and more often
to the Schreibers’ cottage, making any excuse to be
around that way, when he could drop in for honey-
cakes and tea. Nearly always Carl was out in the fields
working. Sometimes Robin went with Clare when she
carried “lunch” out to her husband, then they would
all sit down and eat in the open, but often he would


THREE NEW BOOKS FOR XMAS
Shortly the overseas Christmas mails will be closing, and now is the time to
think of your overseas friends. A lasting remembrance and a present to be
greatly appreciated is a good book. Each of these three books, now
published for the first time, gives a real glimpse of Australia—nothing could
be more pleasing to your friends so far away from Sunny Australia.
GIVE BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS!
CHUNUMA
“JUNGFRAU”
By Dymphna Cusack.
A striking, unusual Australian novel, which won for
Dymphna Cusack second place in the 1935 S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize for Australian Literature. The
setting is Sydney at the present day; duration of the
story only a few months. Into this time the young
author compresses the dramatic story of three modern
young women, the central character a teacher whose
affair with a university man is the core of the novel.
The other two, her friends though not each other’s,
are a young woman doctor and a prison-aid worker.
The story is swift and arresting.
PRICE, 5/- (POSTAGE 4d. EXTRA).
“ CHUNUM A ”
By Mary and Elizabeth Durack.
Another happy book by the young West Australian
authors of "All-About,” as rippling with delightful
depiction of the cheerful Kimberleys station
aborigines’ life. All who like characters they can
take to heart, enjoy and laugh with will be com-
pletely captivated by Chunuma himself, “the little bit
king,” by his whimsical little mate Dingyerri, by the
thrusting Gwennie who sings “like a crumaphone,”
and by a dozen others of these happiest of charming
folk.
PRICE, 3/6 (POSTAGE 4d. EXTRA).
JUNGFRAU
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
By Miles Franklin.
The magnificent Australian novel which won the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize for 1936 and which has proved so wonderfully popular as a
serial in The Bulletin.” The story sweeps over a full century, from
1833 to 1933; a colorful romance, beautifully depicting the Australian
scene, lively with action and exceptionally rich in fine unforgettable
characters, notably Danny Delacy and his ‘‘brave Johanna,” whose
courage is living at the end in a descendant who, in the air, carries
on their splendid tradition. A truly great Australian novel. A story
to be read and re-read!
PRICE, 6/- (POSTAGE 4d. EXTRA).
Published by
252 George Street, Sydney; and at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.), and
London.
arrive at the cottage after Clare had come back from
the field, and she would give him tea by himself.
It was a long while before Robin realised what
Clare’s feelings were towards him —for the night of
the storm was but a hazy memory—and when he did,
when she told him she loved him, and begged for
his kisses, he had bolted like a scared colt, leaving
her dismayed and unhappy. Once away and analysing
his own thoughts he knew that Clare had been grow-
ing more and more desirable to him. If she could
have waited just a little longer he would have taken
the initiative, and God knows what might have
happened. The shock of it pulled him up with a jerk
and strengthened his purpose when he went to tell
his father about Myrna.
He had written to Myrna that night, effusively,
boyishly exultant, and could hardly wait for her reply.
When no reply came he was alarmed, and wrote again,
imagining all sorts of possibilities, that she must be
ill. She answered this letter, a brief note, telling him
she was quite well, but making no reference to the
news contained in his first letter. He was confused
and hurt, and. wrote again, explaining as he had done
before, just what had happened in his interview with
his father. This letter was apparently ignored, as
were two that followed it, and his bewilderment turned
to a resentful anger. For the first time he thought of
himself as one who had made great sacrifices and
whose sacrifices had been scorned. Then it was that
he had gone back to Clare Schreiber.
U E did not love Clare. There was no question of
that, but he had grown very fond of her. She
fascinated him, her movements, her voice, her young
robust self, utterly without inhibitions or conventional
restraint. He was sure she had never thought of
herself as wanton or as an unfaithful wife. Her
attitude towards Carl was no different from what it had
always been. He was her husband —an unalterable
fact; a fact, too, that she did not want to alter. The
fault, Robin knew, was his, and his alone ; starting
with a reckless gesture of pique and defiance, a
reaction to what he imagined to be Myrna’s cruel
injustice. He had hardly stopped to think that he
was being infinitely more unjust to Carl Schreiber,
and even to Clare herself. She loved him, she was
solace, she was escape. She gave him physical content-
ment and mental relief.
This then was the end. “For everyone’s sake
it would be better if you kept away from the
Schreibers,” He knew that his father was right.
Leaving Myrna out of the question altogether—and
more than once he had the uncomfortable feeling that
he was not being fair to her—for his own sake, for
both the Schreibers’ sakes, for his father’s sake, for
the good of Malwa itself, this intimacy must stop now.
He wondered how best he could tell her, for tell
her he would. He was not going to bolt away and
leave her, as he had before. What would she do?
What would she say? Poor Clare ; she had so few
words to express her feelings. “I love you—won’t
you kiss me, but.” She had said this once, just once,
before he left her that first time. Never again ; her
heart had seemed too full, her love too extreme for
expression. She had welcomed him when he came
back to her, with an inarticulate joy, ready to give,
or if need be, to give up. She would accept his
judgment, he believed, without question. Since he
had come back nothing else seemed to matter. She
avoided calling him by name ; sometimes after much
coaxing he would persuade her to say “Robin,” but
her only spontaneous expression of feeling was the
words, slowly drawled, “My dear, my dear.”
CLARE stood at the door of the cottage and watched
the horses stream out of the yard and take the
rutted wagon track that joined the cultivation land
to Malwa homestead, the red mare running in the lead
and Robin jogging along at the rear. They passed
over a swell in the rolling down-land, and Robin,
turning, waved to her. She waved back, and in a
moment horses and rider were out of sight. He
would not come again. She would see him, of course,
and possibly speak to him, but their days togethei
were over.
She was not altogether unhappy; from the
beginning she had known that this parting of the
ways was inevitable sooner or later. But the dream
would be hers for ever; the memory that her love
had brought him back, for so it seemed to her, and
for a brief time life had been wholly beautiful. She
turned away from the door and came back to the
living-room, to sit again by the fire. She was smiling
now, smiling at the knowledge that was hers alone.
Through the months that were coming, through the
years that followed, this dream of hers would never
fade. For it was more than a dream. She had meant
to share her secret with Robin, but was glad now that
she had not. Some day, perhaps—but more likely
never.
THERE were two letters waiting at home for Robin.
■ The first one he opened was from Myrna, and,
reading it, all his old fervor revived. He would not
let her go, though it seemed that this was what she
wanted.
Myrna wrote, acknowledging now everything that
Robin had told her in his previously unanswered
letters. She had intended never to write to him again,
thinking it best and easiest for them both to end
their friendship this way, but she had been persuaded
by Boyd Freeman, whom she had met a few days
before, that it would be fairer to Robin to give him
some explanation of her actions. The explanation,
Robin thought, did not ring true. There was some-
thing about it insincere, fraudulent, though he could
not say exactly where the insincerity lay. She wrote
that she would not hear of his sacrificing Malwa for
her, and since Robin had never suggested that this
was the case, merely saying that Lammas would be
a home ready for them in two years’ time, he was
puzzled that she could have guessed so shrewdly. He
realised, too, that at no time did she deny that she
loved him, nor question the sincerity of his love for
her as she had when they were together in Sydney.
It seemed that she avoided this side of the question
altogether. On one point, however, she was definite.
She had agreed to go to England with Elsie Glasson,
and would be leaving in three months’ time. This
letter was to say good-bye ; she would not write again.
The second letter was from Boyd Freeman, asking
if he might come to Malwa in the spring. He was
writing a thesis, he said, which he hoped would win
him both his M.A. degree and a scholarship to an
English University. He was feeling a bit fagged, and
would be very glad if he could spend a few weeks
with Robin in the country. It would be the last
opportunity he would have for some time, possibly
years, if he won his scholarship.
Boyd went on to say that he had seen Myrna.
“There is something happening there,” he wrote. “Or
something has happened that I don’t understand. You
come to Sydney, and come damn’ quick. There’s been
dirty work at the crossroads, but what, or why, or
where it came from I cannot find out.”
Robin replied immediately to both letters. To
Boyd he wrote saying that he could not possibly leave
Malwa for three weeks or longer. He asked that
Boyd should keep in touch with Myrna and find
out if he could what the trouble was. Robin was more
certain than ever that Myrna’s letter had not been
a true expression of her feelings, and he chafed at
circumstances which held him at Malwa.
Chapter XXI.
AT Lammas there was gnjat prepara-
tion. The new house which Donald
was building for Robin had been
planned and the work started.
Robin had fenced an enclosure for drives
and garden, and now he and Boyd Freeman were
to spend a week there, plotting flowerbeds and plant-
ing trees and shrubs and roses. These had been sent
from the city by Myrna, her contribution towards the
new home. She and Robin were to be married after
shearing in the following year, this giving them a
waiting ot thirteen months , After Christmas>
D , • , , A , . , , . . ’
Robin hoped, Myrna would be coming on a visit to
, . i d r b , ~
Malwa, and by then the building of the house would
. „ , , , ~, , b
be well advanced and ** P lan,s establ,shed-
lt was a new Robin who had suddenly appeared
to Myrna a month before. In place of the diffident
bo Y of ber thoughts there came a man fully grown,
certain of himself and assertive. His victory had
been swift and complete. He had brushed aside her
arguments, overridden her protests, and in acknowledg-
ment of a victory won, had claimed as his right that
lheir engagement should be publicly announced.
Before he left Sydney she was wearing his ring.
But it was the old Robin who had refrained from
any mention of Clare Schreiber. He had now no
regrets for anything he had done, nor had he any
doubts that Myrna would have readily forgiven him.
It was not fear or shame that stopped him, but that
here again, as with his feelings for Black Harry and
Watch and the land, was an intimacy which he was
not prepared to share with anyone, not even Myrna,
though he was ready to believe that this might come
some day.
(To be continued next week.)


Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
. O 7(P
John Heine
SYDNEY f Son Ltd • JYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne. Adelaide., Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. „
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
FOR SHORT STORIES
jiulLetin
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 31, 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Every class of Banking and Exchange
business is expeditiously transacted by the
Bank’s Branches within the Commonwealth
and its Agents overseas.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and at
Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION: —Adelaide —New?
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A G. Pike. Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
“The Occasion Produces the Man”:—
OBLIVION
FOR A GOINEA
BY J.B. BLAIR
IT has often been remarked how in
all great moments in a nation’s
history the Occasion produces the
Man. Of course, actually the man is
there all along, but it needs someone to
recognise him for what he is and to
acclaim him the man for whom the
country has been waiting. I always con-
sider that this someone is of more ulti-
mate importance than the actual person-
age —the Cromwell, the Washington or
the Hitler —on whom the limelight of
history is focused.
In my own experience I have never in
moments of stress been without this
faculty for picking the right man, and
to it I owe most of my success in my
many and varied commercial ventures.
Not that all my undertakings have been
uniformly successful. That time, for
instance, when Skiff let me down with
his kerbstone caricatures was decidedly
unprofitable.
I took it pretty hard for a while ; it
made me fairly sick to think that I’d
had a fortune in my grasp and then just
because a boneheaded artist fell down on
the job I’d lost the lot.
I was worrying quite a lot about it
and couldn’t put my mind to thinking
up a new scheme for rehabilitating the
family fortunes. Not that the ideas
weren’t there; the old brain was simply
seething with marvellous plans, but I felt
that until I got the other business clean
out of my head I couldn’t settle down
to a new venture with my customary
zest.
But do you think I could forget it?
Not a chance! Skiff’s base perfidy
would come back to me every time.
I WAS pushing my mug back across
1 the Pitt'-street bar when a familiar
snatch of music fluttered over the radio.
At least it sounded like music.
“What’s that?” I asked Phoebe.
“That’s Bing,” she said, looking soul-
ful.
“I know,” said I, “and take your
thumb out of the beer; but I mean
what’s he singing?”
She placed the drink in front of me
and warbled
“ It’s eas-y to rememba,
But so hard to forgit."
One of my blinding flashes struck me.
In that moment a plan had unfolded it-
self to me. My reasoning was something
like this:
Some people find it hard to remember
things.
Some find it easy to remember things.
People with bad memories can by means
of systems train their memories until they
find it easy to remember things.
Some people can forget things quite
easily.
Others find it hard to forget.
Therefore there should be some way of
training people so that they can forget what
they want* to forget.
All I had to do
was find that way
and my fortune
would be made.
Everyone has
something he’d
give pounds to for-
get. I’d charge
reasonable fees and
rope in the shekels,
at the same time
doing incalculable
service to my fel-
low-men.
The difficulty was to find the way!
Then, as always, the man for the job
appeared. And, as always, 1 recognised
him as the man.
HE almost knocked me over as he
shambled along Pitt-street with his
head down and hisi hands in his pockets.
It was years since I’d seen him, but I’d
have recognised him anywhere. It was
“Dreamy” Bentwhistle, who, in our
schooldays, was undisputed World’s
Champion Forgetter.
As soon as I saw him I realised that
here was the very man for the success-
ful accomplishment of my scheme.
“Hullo, Dreamy,” I hailed him, “how’s
things?”
He allowed me to shake hands, but
eyed me dubiously.
“I don’t remember you,” he said.
“And what d’you call me Dreamy for?”
“Aren’t you Dreamy Bentwhistle?
Weren’t we in the same class together
at school?”
He pulled out a notebook and con-
sulted it.
“Yes, my name’s Bentwhistle, though
what you wanted to call me- —what
was it you called me?”
“Dreamy. That was your school nick-
name, you know.”
“Wa9 it? What was?”
“Dreamy.”
“Dreamy what?”
“Dreamy Bentwhistle.”
“Why Bentwhistle ?”
“Because that’s your name.”
“Is it?”
“Of course.”
He pulled out the book again.
“By Jove, so it is. Bentwhistle, eh?”
“Yes.”
“But what else did you say you called
me?”
“Dreamy.”
He looked at the book and shook his
head.
“Must’ve been some other chap. My
name’s George.”
“Yes, I know, but this was your nick-
name.”
“What was?”
“Oh, skip it,” I said, “and come and
have a drink.”
T T wasn’t hard to win Dreamy over..
1 He was out of work, of course. The
poor chap could never keep any job
long. Either he’d lose the note he’d
made of the address and wouldn’t know
where to go, or he’d stay home too many
Sundays that weren’t Sundays. I found
out his diggings and we took new ones
together. I wasn’t going to lose the
run of the only man on earth that
could put my plan into action.
The plan itself, like all great schemes,
was quite simple.
When a businessman wants to remem-
ber something important he doesn’t go
around with knots tied in his handker-
chief or string tied round his finger.
No! He merely tells the important
something to his secretary and then
ceases to worry about it. The secretary
takes a note of it and, when the infor-
mation is wanted, there it is. The secre-
tary’s card index system is the business-
man’s artificial memory. My plan was
to use this system in an inverted way,
to provide clients with an artificial for-
gettery.
I took the old office at 26 Polly-
street and we got busy. Our advertise-
ments ran something like this:
Oblivion for a Guinea!
Have you a secret you would like to
forget? Some sorrow, unguessed by others,
that you would give the world to banish
for ever from your memory? What is it
that is preying upon your innermost mind,
warping your development, and hampering
your progress like the leg-irons on a con-
vict?
If you cannot forget, let us forget for
you.
Consult the Lethe School of Forgetful-
ness and become a free man!
That fetched ’em. As I said before,
there’s hardly a man or woman who
hasn’t something he’d like to forget.
They Started to trickle in almost at
once, and before long the trickle in-
creased to a steady stream.
We used to work it like this. I’d
interview the client, who’d tell me his
trouble. Then I’d usher him in to
Dreamy, seated at a businesslike,
polished-topped table. The client would
tell Dreamy what was worrying him:
Dreamy would jot it down on a card.
Then he would slip the card into a
drawer and his mind would become a
complete blank as far as the client s
troubles were concerned. And, of course,
Dreamy having forgotten it for him,
there was no longer any need for the
client to forget it himself, so his mind,
too, would be a blank" on the subject.
| N case this isn’t clear enough, take
1 the case of Reverend Bowser, one of
our earliest clients, as an example. He
was terribly embarrassed when he con-
fessed his secret, but I soon put him
at his ease, and whisked him in to
Dreamy.
“Reverend Bowser, Mr. Bentwhistle.”
They shook hands.
“Now, Mr. Bowser, just tell Mr.
Bentwhistle the secret that’s troubling
you and everything will be all right. ’
“|hj-—very well. It’s like this, Mr.
Bentwhistle. Er—it’s very awkward.
I feel so ashamed, but —er”
“Go straight to it,” I encouraged him.
Then out it came in a burst, Dreamy
writing like lightning to keep up with it.
“I was very young. I’ve regretted it
all my life. Didn’t know any better.
Poor little Susie Barnes. I cheated her.
He paused again.
“You must tell us all,” I said gently.
He stifled a sob and hung his head.
“I cheated her,” he repeated. It was
at our Sunday school picnic. In the
eeg-and-spoon race, under seven, mixed.
I won. I got the prize Susie came
second. But 1 cheated! Cheated \ Under
seven! Why, I was near y eight ...
There, you know it now, the secret that
has haunted me all my life.
Dreamy blotted the card and placed
it in the drawer.
“What secret?” he asked.
Rev. Bowser looked up blankly.
“Why, I’ve just told you,” he protested.
Dreamy shook his head.
“No,” he said dully. “Not me. Must ve
been someone else. You’d better tell
me now.”
The parson looked dazed.
“Well ” he stammered, “I could ve
< sworn I told you. It was about the
time .. . about when .. . about .. er
let me see. what was it about? Deal
me! I’ve forgotten it! lin cured.
He paid his guinea and walked out a
changed man.
The scheme worked
marvellously. With
everyone it was the
same. They’d tell
Dreamy. He’d forget
it and ask them to
repeat it, and they’d
find they’d forgotten
it, too.
All day long wor-
ried, harassed-looking
people crept into our
office with guilty looks
on their faces, and all
day long happy-look-
ing folk with beaming
faces walked out with
springy steps and light
hearts.
It used to do my
heart good to see them
and to think of the
good I was doing to
suffering humanity. Of
course, it was Dreamy
that was really doing
it, but he didn’t know.
He had no idea what it
was all about. I’d
told him, but that
meant nothing to him.
It had gone from his
mind five seconds
after I had told him.
All he knew about his job was that
he had to keep a record of what our
clients told him. It was a continual
mystery to him why the interviews ended
so abruptly after he had taken down the
details.
“What’s it all about?” he would ask
me. “Why do they pay us?”
“For getting rid of their troubles.”
“What troubles?”
“The ones you write down on those
cards.”
“Oh, I see,” he’d say doubtfully, and
he’d glance through the cards. “By Jove,
this one’s a corker.”
I’d take the card and read it through.
“Yes, isn’t it?”


MOTORISTS
ydi nr fdi iiiiemx
How much do you get ?
We put it up to you —can you get the longer
troublefree service of Dunlop or Perdriau
Tyres in any other make ? Check it up for
yourself—forget the words and consider the
facts ! Only Dunlop or Perdriau Tyres have
these advantages
*t # •
The 48% greater non-skid
mileage provided by pounds
more and tougher rubber in
the treads.
The 12% cooler running and
the 52% longer casing life given
by Weftless Cord (an improve-
ment exclusive to Dunlop in-
terests in Australia).
Dunlop or Perdriau Tyres cost no
more. Why not get the most for
your money?
è
é
“Isn’t what?”
He was quite hopeless.
Our cards certainly were a rare col-
lection. We had enough material in the
cabinet for several hundred divorce
cases, the solutions of scores of un-
solved crimes; information that would
have wrecked dozens of lifelong friend-
ships and broken up countless happy
homes.
'T* HINGS went on swimmingly for a
* while. The first few weeks’ takings
just managed to pay for our advertising,
rent and so on, but after that we began
to pile up quite a tidy sum. At first I
just kept it in the office safe. I’ve never
been one for banks. Sometimes you
want to get your money out to leave
town in a hurry, and they’re shut.
Anyhow, our roll was mounting up
into the hundreds, and I thought it would
be safer to give the banks a treat for
a change. So we carried it round the
corner one morning and opened a joint
account.
Half an hour later we were back at
26 Polly-street. Things were slack.
Dreamy sat down at his desk and I stood
looking out the window.
“Well, that’s that!” I said thankfully.
“I’ve been worried about it.”
“Worried about what?” he asked in
his usual dumb fashion.
“About the money.”
“What money?”
“The cash we’ve just banked.”
“Oh, we banked it, did we?”
“Yes.”
“Where?”
“At the Commonwealth Bank, you big
fathead, in our joint account.”
“Why?”
“Well, it’s our money.’
“How did we get it?”
For the twenty-second time I ex-
plained the whole business to him, com-
mencing from the moment that I bumped
into him in Pitt-street.
When I finished he said: “But what
are these for?” indicating the cards.
“They’re our records.”
“What of?”
“Our cases.”
“What cases?”
It was hopeless. I gave it up and
walked towards the door.
“Wait here till I come back,” I told
him. “I’m going to see a man about a
dog.”
“What dog?”
I walked out without enlightening him,
and started down Polly-street.
I’d been walking for some time before
I stopped to think where I was going,
and, do you know, I couldn’t for the life
of me remember. Worse than that, I
couldn’t even think where I’d come from.
There was a key in my pocket, but what
did it fit? I tried to think where my
office was, but couldn’t. Tried to think
what day it was —couldn’t. Searched my
pockets to find my address, without
success.
I bought a paper to find out the date,
and got the shock of my life. Apparently
a whole slice had disappeared out of my
life—the last thing I could remember was
coming out of a bar without drinking
my beer, and according to the date that
had been several weeks previously.
I tried hard to remember. Let me see,
hadn’t I bumped into somebody? It was
no good, the old memory refused to
function.
POR the next week I lived in a daze.
1 I had a feeling that something tre-
mendous had happened, but I couldn t
recall what. Then one day I happened
to walk down Polly-street. Walking
along, deep in my thoughts, I suddenly
realised that I had stopped in front of a
door and was diving into my pockets
(or a key. Had my subconscious mind
directed me to my old address?
Apparently it had, for the key fitted.
Once inside, in those familiar surround-
ings, things came back to me a bit. I
went into Dreamy’s room. There was
a letter there addressed to me:
been worrying over the whole busi-
ness. You’d never tell me what it was all
about. You’d never tell me what those
cards were for.
The idiot. I’d told him dozens of
times.
Yell, I’ve just been reading them again,
And they re pretty sticky. If you ask me
:he whole business is pretty sticky. Where
does all that money come from? You
think I don’t know. Well, I do. . Black-
mail, that’s what it is. You’re black-
mailing all those poor, people and you’re
getting me to keep the records of their
sticky secrets. Well, I’m not going to be
your tool any longer. I’m going away and
you needn’t look for me. And I’m burning
all those sticky cards.
Yours sincerely,
George Bentwhistle.
After reading this through about' half
a dozen times I began to see daylight.
By degrees it all came back to me.
When we came back from the bank
that day I had told him everything. I
remembered he’d been fiddling with a
pencil. He must have, jotted the thing
down. Then when he forgot it I forgot
it, too. My own scheme had recoiled
upon me.
I cursed myself for an idiot for not
foreseeing this danger and providing
against it. There. I had been with a
chance to make thousands, and I’d let
it slip through my hands.
Still, there was always the roll at the
bank, and no stupid Dreamy to split it
with. So round I went.
“Sorry,” said the teller. “Must be
some mistake. Don’t you remember
your partner came back and closed the
account the same afternoon that you
opened it?”
“My partner?”
“Yes, Mr. Bentwhistle, I think the
name, was.”
“Bentwhistle! Oh, yes, that’s right,”
I said, realising that it was no good ex-
plaining.
I walked out into Pitt-street. A street
musician was making the air hideous
with his song,
“It’s eas-y to re mem b a
But so hard to forgit!”
CTIX months, the Judge said, was all
> too light a punishment for so un-
provoked an assault.
Lord knows what he’ll say if I ever
meet Dreamy again.
A Telling Brevity:—
FEAR
BY MYRA MORRIS
There was a
g r e e n-bowled
lamp by the
bed, but outside its
yellowish circle
everything was
shadowy and un-
familiar.
The woman in
bed threw fright-
ened,' fluttering
glances into the far
corners of the
room. Funny, she thought, how even
the furniture wore a different look at
night. The ugly cretonne curtains of the
corner wardrobe bulged as though some-
one behind were pushing them with an
elbow.
Past twelve! She looked at the clock
with screwed-up, uneasy eyes. Her
whole face, sharp and thin, old for its
years, had an aspect of unbearable
anxiety. Lying stiff and motionless under
the faded patchwork-quilt, she listened
to the wind. It was blowing across the
black plains, flowing like a river, curling
up the road between the Murray pines.
There was something terrible and im-
placable about the sound of the wind.
Behind it the plovers down by the swamp
kept up a senseless screaming. A fox
barked somewhere. Short staccato yelps
that suggested infinite loneliness.
The woman put out a thin, freckled
hand and turned down the lamp. Better
the darkness than this twilight peopled
with unfamiliar shapes. But the
darkness, she found, was no better. The
lamp flared fitfully before it expired;
Leaping shadows like great hooded
monks moved along the rough, canvas-
lined walls and reared up to the ceiling.
She screwed her
eyes shut and
escaped into an-
other darkness that
was stabbed with
red points and
arrows. She thought
suddenly of the old
Indian hawker
whom they had
met driving home
from the market in
the township. She
could see his bent body, his turbaned
head above the rippling satin haunches
of the horses. His swarthy, alien face
grinned at her. Black eyes with yellow-
ish whites ... She thought of the pig
they had killed that day down at the
yard. Blood! She could see the blood
trickling through the dark.
She opened her eyes again, the sweat
of fear damping hex forehead and mak-
ing the hair along her neck tickle. Rats
were scuttling behind the walls. A bough
scraped on the roof with the gritty sound
of a pencil being drawn across a slate.
Scrape, scrape, scrape. The noise tor-
mented her.
She remembered it: was the big,
straggly pussy-willow. A hatred of the
tree, as real as the hatred for a human
enemy, tore at her. Harry had planted
the tree in a place where it' would get
all the water from the bath. He- loved
it like the big soft fool that he was. He
loved it. But to-morrow she would take
an axe and hack it down . . .
Axe ! Her mind, shying away from the
sinister implications of the word, fastened
on the memory of her husband . . .
Married seven years and he had never
o Continued on next page.)


~K .l/JiAtLf y
“Thank goodness someone’s
sent me a Gillette!”
An umbrella from Aunt Mary; a hot water bottle
(phew!) from Uncle Joe; a charming clock from dear
old Grandpa; and, would you believe it, a thick woolly
pullover from but never mind, someone has sent
him what he really wanted —a Gillette Shaving Outfit.
Gillette! The one gift which
is certain to bring joy to
every man, wherever he lives,
whatever he does.
No. 77 Set containing new improved razor
—the guard and handle are now combined
in one piece—complete in walnut or green
coloured, hygienic moulded case, with
three of the new Blue Gillette electrically
tempered blades and two blade it/
holders - -- -- -- - v
e
Other Sets from 1/9 to 45/-
rfiii
OF ALL DEALERS MADE IN ENGLAND
left her alone for a night before! He
shouldn’t have done it now. Going off
like that to the sale over the river, and
taking the dog with him. “You’ll be
all right, old woman,” he had said care-
less-like and unworried . . .
All right! When had she ever been
all right since coming to this God-for-
saken bit of country up north? Nothing
but work, work, work for a woman on
a farm! Old at forty, with bent back
and teeth rotting in your head. What
consideration had he ever given her?
(Scrape, scrape, scrape of the bough
against the roof! Scuffle of rats behind
the sagging hessian!) She'd married for
love, poor fool her! She. didn’t ought to
have done it . . • Well, she’d had
enough. She’d get out like her sister in
Port Melbourne suggested . . . Imme-
diately . . . (He’d leave her again like
this now he had once done it.) Yes, she'd
write a letter to her sister and give it to
the baker in the morning to post.
That was —if morning ever came . . .
Anything could happen before then . . .
That brown-faced hawker returning, per-
haps, along the road ... A tramp
breaking in . . . Things like you read in
the newspapers. “Woman found bat-
tered to death on lonely farm” . . .
Her mind, crazy with fear, ran on
under the force of its own bitterness.
AND suddenly it was morning. Cold
light spilling into the room . . . furni-
ture taking familiar shape . . . rose and
pearl in the scrap of window-framed sky
She got out of bed hastily. It was
late. The cows were mooing plaintively
down by the bails waiting to be milked.
She struggled into her clothes and went
outside, conscious through her weari-
ness of a feeling of well-being. It was
going to be a good, fine day, and Harry
would be home around lunchtime . . .
How clean and fresh everything was!
The pussy-willow had a million buds
aureoled in silver. She stared at it and
felt ashamed . . . What had she let her-
self get like that in the night for?
Her panic seemed a hundred years away
now. Fool! That’s what she was —a
crazy fool!
The baker’s cart was rollicking across
the paddock.
“A quarter loaf,” she thought con-
tentedly. “That’ll be all.”
She picked up her buckets and trudged
down to the milking-yard her mind
pleasantly empty.
A Picturesque Irishman:—
OUT OF THE
PAST
The Knight of Vaucluse
J-H M ABBOTT.
ON a warm afternoon in December,
1811, his Excellency Colonel Lach-
lan Macquarie, C. 8., accompanied
by his friend Dr. William Redfern, rode
out along the new highway to the South
Head of Port Jackson. Where the road
—it was really little more than a cleared
track through the bush, with a few rough
log bridges across the gullies—came up
on to the hillside above Parsley Bay, they
drew rein to rest the horses and admire
the view.
Immediately in front of them, below
Bradley’s and George’s and Middle
Heads, the long northern branch of the
harbor stretched to the curving white
beach which, twenty-three years before,
Governor Phillip had named Manly.
Below them were dense forests to the
water’s edge. The huts of the signal-
station and the tall flagstaff stood where
the lighthouse is now, and the only other
sign of human occupation of the neigh-
borhood was a column of smoke rising
above the mouth of the narrow valley
of Vaucluse, where some clearing opera-
tions were evidently in progress.
Dr. Redfern remarked upon the latter
to the Governor, smiling a little as he
spoke. He pointed with his riding crop.
“I see our friend Sir Henry and the
indefatigable Sam Breakwell are hard at
work down there. They’ll make a pretty
place of it before they’re done. I sup-
pose your Excellency has been there?”
Macquarie smiled too. The mere
mention of the name of Sir Henry
Browne Hayes was usually sufficient to
bring a smile into the face of any in-
habitant of Sydney in those days.
“No, not yet; though ’tis not for the
want of an invitation. Our worthy
knight of Vaucluse has been pressing me
this twelvemonth past to pay him a visit,
and I’ve always been meaning to do so,
but something or other has ever inter-
fered. However, as the public business
is a little easier just now, I intend to go
to-morrow. I have a Christmas present
for Sir Henry which, I fancy, will de-
light his heart. I hope you may find it
convenient to come with me, doctor. We
will go by water from Sydney, and make
a day of it. The naval officers’ boat can
take us down in the morning and pick
us up in the afternoon. .You will give
me your company?”
“Oh, with pleasure, sir. I am very
fond of that mad Irishman. All his life
here in New South Wales has been char-
acteristic of a man who could do the
half-insane thing that brought him here.
You know the story, I suppose?”
“Only imperfectly.”
‘i | HAVE his own version,” smiled
' the doctor. “And others. ’Tis a
quaint tale—one of the queerest I’ve
ever come across. Sir Henry comes of
a family that has been for some genera-
tions rather a notable one in Cork. Mer-
chant adventurers, I suppose you would
call them. And highly successful ones,
too. There are regular clans of them
there, and they consider themselves quite
as good, socially, as the best of the
landed gentry. Why shouldn’t they?
They are better off. His father was a
certain Attiwell Hayes, and his son seems
to have inherited some of his eccentrici-
ties from him ; though many seem to be
entirely original and of his own inven-
tion. At any rate, when he grew up he
was one of the most conspicuous of all
the Cork bucks. And that is to say a
good deal; I’ve been there, when I was
in the Navy, and can truthfully vouch
for it that no others, anywhere, are quite
their equals.
“Somewhere about 1790 he was
elected one of the sheriffs of the city,
and as such waited on the Lord-Lieu-
tenant during a state visit to the place.
It was for this that he was knighted.
Some years later he received a captain’s
commission in the South Cork militia,
in which body he was a very heavy swell
indeed. I have been told that when his
battalion went into camp his tent was
lined with a silken canopy, and utterly
magnificent in all its appointments. His
uniform was original in its adornments,
too. All gold braid and gorgeousness,
and his bearing and demeanor were mar-
tial in the extreme.”
“A character, evidently,” commented
Macquarie. “But what about his
escapade with the Quaker heiress? ’Twas
that that brought him here, so I’ve
heard.”
uWES, that was it. She was a Miss
I Mary Pike, and in the summer of
1797 was staying with some friends
named Penrose, a few miles out of Cork.
Sir Henry dined there one day, and no
doubt, as he was a bit of a dandy, prob-
ably attracted the young lady’s admira-
tion. Her only claim to distinction
seems to have been that she was the
heiress to a rich banker who had re-
cently died. And that couldn’t have
meant much to Sir Henry, for he was,
and is, a wealthy man himself. From
all accounts that was the only time they
met before he committed his act of
lunacy.
“Miss Pike’s mother lived in Cork, and
wasn’t in the best of health. So, one
rainy night, it was not altogether a sur-
prise when the girl was awakened, be-
tween one and two in the morning, and
handed a note to say that her mother
was very ill and most earnestly desired
to see her daughter. Mr. Penrose’s car-
riage was immediately ordered out, and,
in company with Miss Penrose and Mrs.
Ann Pike, Miss Mary set out for Cork.
“The unfortunate ladies had proceeded
only about half-way along the muddy
road leading to town when the car-
riage was suddenly halted by four or
five armed men. Miss Pike was forcibly
removed and put into a chaise, where
was another woman, who turned out to
be Sir Henry’s sister. Then the traces of
the Penrose vehicle were cut, and Sir
Henry drove off with the girl to his own
house —Mount Vernon.
“When they arrived, Miss Pike was
lifted out of the chaise and carried
into the house in Sir Henry’s arms.
Not long after their entrance, a man
dressed as a clergyman, accompanied by
two women, came into the room where
they were, and began to read the mar-
riage service in a curious jumble of
French and English. Why this was
done, I’ve never been able to make out.
Poor Miss Pike indignantly protested
against these extraordinary proceedings,
and when Sir Henry forced a ring on
her finger she tore it off and threw it
away. It was not until her gallant suitor
drew a pistol and threatened to com-
mit suicide on the spot that, still pro-
testing, the frightened girl allowed the
foolery to continue.
“Then after vainly endeavoring to
persuade the terrified but resolute girl
that the ceremony was a legal one, and
that she was actually Lady Hayes, our
hero left her. She was not prevented
from communicating with her friends,
who came the next day to Mount Vernon
and rescued her.
“There was the devil to pay, of course.
Sir Henry had to fly for his life. A war-
rant for his arrest was taken out by Miss
Pike’s people, he was declared an out-
law, and a reward of £lOOO was offered
for his apprehension.
“And now comes the very queerest
part of the whole business. It was
hardly any time before Sir Henry was
back in Cork, and, in spite of the reward,
he lived for nearly two years almost in
the heart of the city! ”
“Great George!” exclaimed Mac-
quarie. “This colony’s a queer place,
but not quite, so queer as all that!
Yes?”
• “One fine morning, Sir Henry walked
into the hairdressing shop of one Cogh-
lan, a sort of family retainer, and sug-
gested that, as he intended giving himself
up, Mr. Coghlan might as well earn the
£lOOO reward as anybody else. Coghlan
expostulated; Sir Henry insisted. So
the barber filed the necessary informa-
tion, Sir Henry was duly arrested, and
Mr. Coghlan got his windfall.”
The Governor rocked in his saddle
with laughter. “And then he was brought
to trial, of course?”
uTHE trial was the sensation of the
1 day. A tremendous array of coun-
sel, both for the prosecution and the
defence—all the. talent available in
Ireland. There, were more than half a
dozen on either side, not counting the
solicitors instructing them. I forget who
the others were, but I know that the
famous advocate J. P. Curran led the
prosecution. Sir Henry came into court
with a great following of influential


§53
SPECIAL XMAS
VACATION TOUR
4 WEEKS' RETURN TRIP
VISITING
BRISBANE, BALL
MACASSAR.
SOURABAYA, DARWIN
AND THURSDAY IS.
LEAVING SYDNEY PER S.S. "NIEUW
HOLLAND," 21st DEC., 1936
RETURNING SYDNEY PER M.V.
"MERKUR." 23rd JAN., 1936
Unique opportunity to visit the East—Java, Bali and The
Celebes. Luxury liners, equipped with every modern con-
venience, transport you by a smooth water route. Countless
attractions await you colourful people, quaint customs,
ancient temples, palatial hotels.
For all particulars and folder No. 61 apply to :—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY :: TELEPHONE: 87901
fA
WM if*
wmm®m
HHI
mmmm
2.
FAVOURABLE
FEATURES
oj jQef*eJifci !
Money placed on Fixed Deposit with the
National Bank bears Interest from the
day it is lodged until the day when
the deposit matures.
An engraved Fixed Deposit Receipt,
signed by two officers of the Bank, and
setting out the particulars of the
Deposit, is handed to each Customer
when placing money on Fixed Deposit.
This keeps the money separate from
other funds.
The Interest does not vary during the
term of the Deposit.
On its due date the amount, plus
interest, may be withdrawn or deposited
for a further term. There is no risk of
shrinkage through changes in market
values, nor any Commission or other
charges to pay.
BANK
jCimttecL
3.
4.
43 0 Offices in Australia
27/12/36
ASSETS EXCEED FORTY SEVEN MILLIONS..
friends and relations. The trial lasted
for months—from April, 1801, until the
following August.”
“And the verdict?”
“Oh, guilty, of course. After an
hour’s deliberation the jury found Sir
Henry guilty, but recommended him to
mercy. He was sentenced to death. An
appeal was lodged, on the ground of in-
sufficiency of evidence. Twelve Judges
heard it, and decided adversely to our
friend, but the recommendation was
taken into consideration, and the death
sentence was commuted to one of trans-
portation for life. So that is why my
worthy friend will be in a position to
entertain us at Vaucluse to-morrow. He
came here in the Atlas in Captain King’s
time. Isn’t it the most grotesque story
you ever heard, sir? Almost incredible,
but literally and absolutely true. I
assure your Excellency that, if you knew
Sir Henry as well as I do, however, you
would not doubt any part of it for a
moment.”
U/ HEN, on the following morning,
* the big boat rounded the curious
pile of rocks called “Bottle and Glass,”
and swiftly glided across the placid
waters of the pretty bay at the end of
which the estate of Vaucluse is situated,
the Governor and Dr. Redfern were re-
ceived by Sir Henry with extraordinary
honors. As the boat was half-way be-
tween the western point and the sands,
a puff of white smoke suddenly showed
up against the dark background of forest,
and the boom of a small gun echoed
across the inlet. At the same time, an
immense Union Jack was broken out to
the nor’-easterly breeze from the top of
a tall flagstaff standing a little way back
from the shore, in front of which a
score of men clad in white canvas
smocks stood rigidly to attention. Two
other figures, also in white, stood bare-
headed on the beach; the one a tall,
thin man, and the other of about
five feet seven, broad-shouldered and
whiskered. As the prow of the cutter
took the ground, the latter shouted
loudly :
“Compan-ee, a.t-ten-shun / Present
arrums!”
With hardly restrained mirth, Mac-
quarie and Dr. Redfern beheld the parade
of Sir Henry’s assigned servants go
through the motions of the “present”
with hoes, handled as though they had
been muskets.
“Parade!” commanded the knight.
“Into the wather with ye, and carry his
Excellency ashore. And his Excel-
lency’s aide-de-camp. Hurry now, ye
blackguards. Don’t kape the gentlemen
a-waiting. And may the Lorrud help
ye if ye drop ’em! ”
The twenty convicts immediately broke
rank, and ran down into the shallow
water alongside the boat. Some seized
the gunwale to steady her whilst the
Governor and the doctor stepped over
the side into the strong arms of others
who deposited them dry on the sands.
Sir Henry had hurried down, hat in
hand, to welcome, his guests. Two yards
from the Governor he halted, and exe-
cuted a magnificent bow, sweeping his
hat into the pit of his stomach. Then
he drew himself erect and made his
speech, with impressive and magnificent
dignity.
“'V/OUR Excellency, had I the elo-
I quince of a Demosthenes I could
not do justice to the falings that cause me
bosom to throb, or make sufficiently clear
to ye how thruly hon’d I fale at bidding
ye welcome to Vaucluse. ’Tis inexpres-
sible. But I am grayviously concerned,
your Excellency, that ye should have
been saluted with but one gun, instead
of all thim ye’re entitled to. The fact is,
your Excellency, we found this morn-
ing, to our grafe and horror, that we had
but sufficient powther for one round
only. So I must beg ye to take the will
for the dade, and overlook our short-
comings in this respect. I bid ye wel-
come, your Excellency, to my poor
domain —and likewise the distinguished-
looking gentleman in your suite. Good
God—pardon me, your Excellency—if
tis not me ould frind Docthor Red-
fern ! ”
The Governor took a step forward,
with outstretched hand.
“Indeed, Sir Henry, I am overcome, I
assure you, by the warmth of your wel-
come. It gives me the greatest pleasure
to visit a place—a model place, lam told
—about which I have heard so much. I
brought Dr. Redfern with me. I have
heard that you and he are old friends.”
Sir Henry turned to the tall individual
behind him, a loosely-built, middle-aged
man about six feet high, with unmis-
takable Hibernian features and a sly
twinkle in his blue eyes.
“Step up here, Sam. Your Excellency,
allow me to presint to ye me frind and
agent Mr. Samuel Breakwell —an in-
valuable man, whom to know is to love
and esteem. Whatever of inthrest ye
may obsarve at Vaucluse to-day is largely
due to Mr. Breakwell’s astute manage-
ment, inergy *an’ taste.”
Mr. Breakwell executed a bow
modelled on Sir Henry’s.
“And now, me lads”—Sir Henry raised
his. voice, and addressed the group of
convicts at the water’s edge—“l want
ye to give three cheers for his Excel-
lency Colonel Macquarie. And afther
that, I’ve to inforrum ye, ’tis high holi-
day to-day for all hands at Vaucluse.
At the kitchen ye’ll find a large bar’l of
Squire’s beer and plinty of pannikins.
Now thin —hip, hip”
His voice was drowned in an enthu-
siastic roar from the prisoners that was
twice repeated.
“Will your Excellency be plazed for
to step up to the house? Some refresh-
ment would, no doubt, be agrayable
afther your long row in the hot morning.
Docthor, it does me eyes good for to
look at ye.”
UP beside the little creek they walked
beneath the trees, and presently came
to a clearing in the forest where was situ-
ated the mansion of Vaucluse —a very
modest mansion in those days, having
little similarity to Wentworth’s house
that now stands there and has stood
there so long. The cottage into which
Sir Henry brought Macquarie and Dr.
Redfern was a snug and compact resi-
dence, furnished in a comfortable fashion
none too common in New South Wales
at the time. He led them into the living-
room of the establishment, and begged
them to be seated.
“And now, your Excellency, and me
friend Docthor Redfern, will ye both of
ye be so good as to give a name to the
drink ye’d best like? I’ve English ale
and Scots whisky—as well as Irish—and
French wine. Sam Breakwell, I’ll ask
ye to take a drop and be off to look
afther those rapscallions and the bar’!
o’ beer out at the back. Afther we’ve
refreshed ourselves and his Excellency’s
rested, with his permission we’ll take a
walk round the farrum, and see all your
good worruks, me trusty friend. So help
yourself, Sam, and I’m sure the Gov-
ernor will excuse ye.”
Mr. Breakwell poured himself out
some whisky, drank it at a gulp and de-
parted, without having uttered a word
since the arrival of the visitors. When
he had gone out, and after Macquarie
and Dr. Redfern had filled their glasses,
Sir Henry grew eloquent in the praises of
his henchman.
“What I’d have done without that
good fellow in the bad times, there’s
no knowing, your Excellency. As
the docthor could tell ye, I’ve spent a
considerable portion of me time, since
I’ve been in possession of Vaucluse, in
exile at the Coal River. While I was
away, enduring persecution, and atin’ me
heart out with anxiety as to me prop-
erty, he was faithfully a-lookin’ afther
it the same as though it were his own —
and betther. When ye’re quite ready,
gentlemen, we’ll go take a look at his
good worruks. Ye’ll see for y’silves what
he’s achayved.”
There is not space here, to enter into
a detailed description of Sir Henry's
orchard, his farm, his sheep, his
horses, his cattle, his garden and all the
many excellent arrangements that had
turned this wooded gully in the hillside
into an establishment that was only
rivalled, as regards those in the near
neighborhood of Sydney, by that which
had been founded by Mr. John Palmer at
the head of Woolloomooloo Bay. There
was no doubt that he and Sam Break-
well had -done wonders with the place.
Macquarie was loud in his praises of
all he saw, but neither of his guests was
sorry when Sir Henry announced that
it was time to return to the house for
dinner.
THEY sat down at a round table —
the Governor on Sir Henry’s right,
Dr. Redfern on his left and Mr. Break-
well opposite, whilst two convict ser-
vants, arrayed in a quaint, and evi-
dently extemporised, livery, waited on
the party. It was an abundant feast, and
all, as their host was proud to tell them
with each course, produced at Vaucluse.
At length the cloth was removed and the
decanters placed upon the red cedar
table.
When “The King” had been drunk.
“Colonel Macquarie,” “Dr. Redfern,”
“Sir Henry Browne Hayes” and “Mr
Samuel Breakwell”—besides “The Navy,”
“The Army” and several other toasts—
the, Governor, having caught Dr. Red-
fern’s eye, rose to his feet.
“Sir Henry,” he said, “I would beg
leave from you to say a few words.”
With much politeness their host bowed.
“There is nothing your Excellency could
say would give, me aught but pleasure
and instruction, gratification and enjoy-
ment.”
Macquarie hesitated. Then he drew
from his breast a folded document, and
handed it to Sir Henry, who received it
wonderingly.
“On second thoughts,” said the Gov-
ernor, “I will say nothing. All I have, to
say is contained in that paper. Will you
not be good enough to glance at it, Sir
Henry?”
With a puzzled expression on his face,
their host slowly unfolded the document,
and became aware that it was a printed
form, filled in by Macquarie, himself,
whose writing was unmistakable. He
studied it carefully for a minute, and
then looked up at the Governor with a
stare of blank amazement. He seemed
to be struggling for speech.
“Your your Excellency” he
began. But it was too much for him. His
eyes filled with tears; he could not
speak. He placed his arms upon the
table, buried his face in them, and the
other saw his shoulders shake with
scarcely stifled sobs. Macquarie patted
upon the back,
“There, there, Sir Henry, .You have
wed deserved it. I have had no greater
pleasure, since coming to the colony than
receiving the authorisation of Lord
Liverpool to make out that free pardon.
May your , fut “ r ® be ha PP y and
P erous ’ undo V ded by “S' «£>
tunes as y 0“ have endured. Good luck
to you ’ my £nend -
Presently Sir Henry sat up, his eyes
et anc * shining. Silently he wrung the
Governors hand, and Dr. Redterns.
Then he looked a ’ rogg at Mr Breakwell ,
wko sat g a pi ng mouth, as though
p ara lysed. Sir Henry sprang to his feet,
rushe d round the, table, flung his arms
a bout Sam Breakwell’s neck, and kissed
him on the forehead.
“Hurroo, Sam—hurroo! Tis over and
done with. The farrum’s yours. Your
Excellency—will ye not drink a bumper
with me to all free men?”


WAS YOUR MS. AT FAULT?
You will find you can express yourself more
clearly if you use a typewriter for your MSS.
Furthermore, your work will impress the editor
by its professional appearance.
Write to-day to Stott & Underwood, Ltd., Box
1556 E, G.P.0., Sydney, for full particulars of
their reconditioned typewriters and special
easy-payment offer to writers. Stott & Under-
wood make it easy for you to have your own
machine.
Story Writing
During the seven years that Bernard Cronin
has been accepting pupils in the art and
practice of story writing, he has completely
justified his claim that, to those with an urge
to write who will work patiently and con-
sistently, he can make available many of the
lessons he himself has learned during 20
years of authorship.
Write for free copy of his prospectus,
“Story Writing,” to
Bernard Cronin
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
.
35-CWt. Truck Investment on the market
INTERNATIONAL
Model C-30
r
sSrosafiK.
INTERNATIONAL
A
■ ■
Wlcr'.K
i 1
•‘irViSS*’''
l
*5
V
Low price.
35-cwt. capacity (55-cwt. including
body and payload).
Six-cylinder engine.
78.5 horsepower.
Hardened exhaust-valve seat
inserts.
Two wheelbases—l 33 and 157
inches.
Hydraulic brakes.
Full-floating rear axle.
Sold and serviced by
International Harvester Company.
CHASSIS PRICES from
(plus tax)
YOU will go farther and fare better in your delivery work
with International Model C-30 than with any other truck of
its capacity. This powerful every-day truck is as sure and
nimble in traffic as it is speedy and reliable on the longest
runs . . . The more you work it the better you will like it. In
driving Model C-30 you always have that sense of security that
is written on the faces of all International truck men. Let us
give you a demonstration.
Other Internationals range from \ to 5 tons —and giant six-wheelers.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Y2IS3
TERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.V.: No earthly use for that sort of “essay.”
. ...1.M.L.: Philosophical dissertation in jerky
numbers received; it beats us why you should
call it a “topical poem”... .D.N.K.: Flitter-
mouse stuff... .1.D.: Not for us... .M.H.H.:
May be creditable for a schoolboy determined
to set all poetical rules and conventions at de-
fiance, but that is all. For the thousandth
time, we cannot send detailed criticisms by post.
. ...W.L.: Several of the lines defy scansion.
. ...R.H.: Full of jolts and jars... .G.T.:
Last night I went to a party,
Drank deep of the cup that cheers,
But to-day my head is parting
And my eyes are near to tears.
What you need is a stiff pick-me-up 0.M.:
You haven’t made a poem of it.... 0.8.: Golf
verse landed in a bunker... .A.G.8.: If nothing
else settled it the change in metre w0u1d....
T.F.: Even if you could knock together a decent
sonnet, your nineteenth birthday is of little
interest to the world at large... .E.C.: Your
“intention to become a regular aspirant for
space in The Bulletin” is noted resignedly
A.D.: Try them on the girl D.McM.:
Seems to have got out of its setting 8.T.:
Very commonplace J.A.McL.: Not without
some glimmers of promise, but your craftsman-
ship needs a lot of improvement E.V.8.: It
didn’t impress M.0.M.: Doesn’t rise above
mediocrity A.M.: Far too long for a para-
graph, which is all it merits E.S.: Sorry
that we couldn’t possibly “arrange for its in-
sertion in our valued and widely-read paper.”
C.C.: No hope C. 8.: “To Be or Not
to Be?” The latter as far as we are concerned.
E.D.M.: It won’t do J.M.:
All in the sweeps of Wattle song •
What words of grace hop, perch and throng!
Yours don’t perch here J.D.: Chockful of
imperfections P.C.C.: “The Nineteenth
Hole” came nearest without getting very near.
.... H.McE.: Not tempted even by your assur-
ance that “if you publish these verses it is on
condition that I receive no pay.” Frankly, we
wouldn’t publish them if you paid u 5....
W.F.T. (Nova Scotia): Sheer waste of paper,
ink and postage stamps.... M.H.: Four lines
from “That Thing Called Love”:
Cursed illusive emotions that usurp the heart,
Vilest Traitor you are in your cloak of disguise;
Bitter chagrin and discontent you impart
When you cast off your glamor that’s so Highly
prized.
Cynical, aren’t you? S.H.C.: How do you
do it? .... A.H.T.: “There’s many a slip.” But
none of them looks like a pay-slip... .H.G.:
Labored... .L.T.: Just not enough weight....
N.A.8.: “I invited him to partake with me of
that convivial libation prescribed by the
ancients. You can’t have another on us
H.V.: One verse of “An Anthem of Freedom”
set us thinking:
Let us now for freedom cry
In the mind and in the heart,
Tattoo our lips and paint and dye—
It is so grand to be so smart —
And find the true vocation of one’s soul
In saxophone and bridge and birth-control.
A queer conjunction, the last P.W.: Nicely
done, but slight D.J.W.: Doesn’t convince;
he’s the first cow-cocky we’ve ever heard called
Pater by his family E.M.: That sort of
sketch needs more humor... .R.J.W.: Bachelor
skit still doesn’t make the grade; try it else-
where K.R.: Fair character study, but the
gold-seeking part is unimpressive H.L.: Both
unsuitable; might see print in a daily....
H.S.M.: A herd of crooks and jewels; a very
old wheeze to top it off Gumleaf: First too
melodramatic; not enough in the other
J.F.C.: Dialogue jerks along like a centipede
with the gout.. .A.8.C.: Plot lacks strength
8010 : Heavy as a day-old meat pie H.H.W.:
You had a fair idea J.E.K.: You handle the
romantic writing well, but you clear the color
hurdle unconvincingly... .E.M.H.: Just one
faint smile M.K.: You know your flat-
dwellers, but the yarn’s not quite strong enough.
M.K.H.: We’ve had that defunct cat in
the suitcase too often Blanc: Not enough
punch... .T.G.: Doubt if even a professor
would be so gullible... .E.T.: Junk-yard
tragedy has too much agony in it W.P.:
You take too long to say it; also Englishmen
in Spain hold little interest for Australians
T. 8.: Too slight E.F.: You leave the story
up in the air L.0’8.: Both miss; that pre-
historic-man stuff is a washout J.C.: James,
as a worker, lacks conviction D.A.: Scored
a “maggie” with the country one; make it a
bull’s-eye next time. The other contains the
queerest vicar we’ve yet struck L.M.8.:
Didn’t miss by much W.W.H.: Says nothing
new... .Kapiti: You need a more pungent
humor for that bicycle skit; other still being
considered... .W.P.: Though scarcely “the most
original story ever submitted,” it has some
merit... .G.L.K.: Just an incident... .P.McM.:
Stick to your style, which is promising, but try
it on something less Sexton Blake-ish C.S.:
A thin thread... .M. 8.: Ah, the chauffeur
named Guy who turns out to be an earl!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.L.8.: What’s the girl wearing a loaf of
bread on the back of her neck for?... .Beta:
In that perspective, the horse would be about
14ft. 10ng... .K.T.: Drawing needs more polish
—preferably black boot polish D.J.N.:
Sketch not too bad; wheeze ancient... .M.D.:
Was that a rod or a bullocky’s whip?
C. : Fair effort, but still needs to be
better E.R.: That was the first of all aero-
plane gags; also you’ve given too much space
to figures and too little to background....
D. : Didn’t miss by very much, but we
don’t like that head-turned-away idea... .L.C.:
Less like a parting than a two-inch hairless
track going over the man’s head J.0.H.:
Since when has Dad taken to ploughing with
giraffes?
Australia’s latest visitor from the
peerage is Viscount Elibank. Old New
Guinea hands remember him as private
secretary to the Lieutenant-Governor
and as a magistrate in the western
division. He commanded the native
police in 1901, and then a versatile
Empire switched him to the Transvaal.
Afterwards he administered a number
of the West Indian Crown colonies be-
fore he went into commercial pursuits,
which led him to the presidency of the
Federation of Empire Chambers of
Commerce.
* * * *
“C’est Vrai” (F.M.S.): It seems to be
the usual and erroneous belief that an
angry cobra is about the deadliest thing
alive. Actually the reptile is far more
dangerous when unruffled, the reason
being that a cobra who has “done his
block” lifts his head and extends his
“hood.” There is no hood, really —the
rib bones just behind the head flatten out
and stretch the skin very taut, thus clos-
ing the killer’s eyes and making him
blind. The pastime of cobra-baiting
under that condition is just easy money.
#
“Koi Hai”: I refuse to believe that
“Thakur” (B. 14/10/’36) ever saw a
tiger in the Indian State of Jodhpur.
The whole territory resembles our far-
west lands. Water during nine months
of the year is scarce, little cultivation
can be done and the widely-scattered
mud villages rub along on such susten-
ance as they can extract from small
herds of goats and ridiculously diminu-
tive sheep. No tiger would deign to look
at such country. Leopards, duly ticketed
and strictly preserved for his Highness,
by a special State department known as
the “Shikarkhanna,” are the best Jodhpur
can do in the way of “big game.”


ADAMS* (TA'ITERSALL'S) HOTtL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
... 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five, public dining rooms,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dili ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m )
tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
ON
BANK
IHE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Dapartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Fully-qualified mine manager, long exp.
quartz-mining, wants position anywhere. Refs.
—M.206, Don-street, Bendigo, Vic.
Sheep-station overseer, seven years’ exp. bush
and grass lands, wants position. Refs. —3519.
To buy old “Blackwood’s Magazines.”—3slB.
Will send 12 months’ issues of The Bulletin,
1935-36, in good order, to anyone willing to
pay postage thereon (2d. per copy).—E. E.
Moore, Back Creek P. 0., Tasmania.
To buy old American songs “My Own Wild
Western Rose” and “There’s a Light in the
Window.”—3s93.
To exchange books in Spanish for English
books. —3563.
Information Sought.
(1) A batsman plays a no-ball which is caught.
In the meantime two runs are made. How
many runs are credited to the batsman? (2)
A batsman in playing a ball overreaches, but
has his boot toe over the popping crease. The
wicketkeeper appeals, but the batsman is given
not out. He then moves out to get his balance,
and the wicketkeeper, removing the bails, again
appeals. What is the correct decision ? (3) A
batsman has not completed a second run when
the overthrown ball reaches the boundary. How
many runs are scored ? (4) A batsman, striking
at a wide ball, throws his bat which makes con-
tact with the ball. If the ball is caught is the
batsman out ? (5) What is the wording of the
new l.b.w. rule? —3509.
(1) Two runs. (2) There’s no rule on the
matter; the umpire under Rule 42 (“Umpires
are the sole judges of fair and unfair play”)
will decide whether to allow the second appeal.
(3) One run, plus the runs allowed for the
boundary. (4) If the umpire holds that the
batsman has meant to score by throwing the
bat he can give the batsman out. Rule 22 also
applies to this question in the absence of any
definite cricket law. Anyhow, where a batsman
throws a bat at the ball he deserves to be “out.”
(5) The amended leg-before-wicket rule intro-
duced by the Marylebone Cricket Club is as
follows: “The striker shall be out leg-before-
wicket if with any part of his person (except
his hand) which is between wicket and wicket
he intercept the ball which, in the opinion of
the umpire at the bowler’s wicket, shall have
been pitched in a straight line from the bowler’s
wicket to the striker’s wicket or shall have
been pitched on the off side of the striker’s
wicket and would have hit it.”
* * * *
(1) Design and correct spacing of skittles
in the American ten-pin game ? (2) Method
of ' scoring and rules ? (3) Publications in
which the game is described? —3l7s.
(1) The game is played on a covered alley
from 65ft. to 80ft. in length and about 3ft. 6in.
wide, slightly convex in the centre, with a 9in.
gutter on either side, and a pin-pit lOin. deep
and 3ft. wide at the far end. The pins, usually
of hard maple, should be 15in. in height,
in diameter at base and 15in. in circumference
at thickest point. They are set up in the form
of a right-angled triangle in four rows, the
four at back being placed 3in. from alley’s edge,
then three, two and the apex or head pin,
being distant their own length from each other.
From the head pin to the foul line, over which
the player may not step in delivering the ball,
the distance is 60ft. The back wall beyond
the pins is heavily padded, often with a swing-
ing cushion. The balls are of composition,
any size not exceeding 27in. in circumference
and 161 b. in weight, with holes for thumb and
middle finger. (2) A game consists of 10
frames (of two halls each), unless otherwise
agreed on. If all 10 pins are knocked down
by the first ball the player makes a strike, which
counts him 10, plus whatever he may make
with the two balls of his next frame; if all the
pins are knocked down with the two halls it is
called a spare, and the player may add the pins
made by the first ball of his second frame
(properly-lined score boards simplify the some-
what complicated method of scoring). If no
strikes or spares are made the number of pins
overturned is recorded. All pins knocked down
must be removed before second ball is played.
(3) The Encyclopaedia Britannica and Encyclo-
paedia Americana contain descriptions of the
game, under the heading “Bowling.” Also the
American Bowling Congress, which exercises
jurisdiction over the game and meets yearly
to revise rules, publishes the rules.
* * # *
What is the origin and meaning of the “dog-
™,~¥f£en'box” monument at Gundagai
(N.S.W.)? —3561.
It originated in verses, entitled “Nine Miles
Irom Gundagai,” written by Jack Moses. In
consideration of the popularity achieved by the
verses and the fame accruing to Gundagai, the
inhabitants had the statue erected in the appro-
priate location as a tribute to the author.
* * * *
(1) Names of the branches of the Australian
permanent military forces? (2) Where should
application for enlistment be made in the case
of each branch? —3422.
(1) Royal Australian Artillery Regiment,
Koyal Australian Engineers, Australian Army
Service Corps, Australian Army Ordnance
Corps, Australian Army Medical Corps, Aus-
tralian Survey Corps, Australian Army Veteri-
nary Corps, Provost Staff. (2) In N. S. Wales,
application lor enlistment should be made to
the District Base Commandant, Victoria Bar-
racks, Paddington.
* ❖ * *
(1) In what year was the old Darlinghurst
gaol (i Sydney ) built? (2) Who was the archi-
tect? (3) Names of criminals hanged within
its walls? —3426.
(1) Darlinghurst gaol building was completed
in 1841. It is probable that the building was
commenced in 1836, but the work of quarry-
ing stone and erecting the outer wall started
about 10 years previously. (2) The original
plan, a copy of which is in the Mitchell
Library, bears the signature of M. W. Lewis.
(3) In all, 67 persons were hanged there, in-
cluding John Knatchbull, for the murder of
Mrs. Jameson; H. O’Farrell, who wounded the
Duke of Edinburgh during the latter’s visit to
Sydney; Captain Moonlight and Jimmy Gover-
nor, bushrangers; Frank Butler, for the murder
of Lee Weller at Glenbrook; John Makin, who
killed babies committed to the care of-himself
and his wife; and five of the men convicted of
the Mount Rennie outrage.
* * * *
Is an exhibitor of films in Australia legally
bound to mark all advertisements “For general
exhibition” or “Not for general exhibition” ?
If so, what is the penalty for failing to do so ?
—3440.
In the case of films passed with the special
condition “suitable only for adults,” all adver-
tisements must bear those words. The film is
allowed to enter the Commonwealth only on
these conditions, and can be withdrawn from
circulation if they are not complied with. In
the case of films passed “for general exhibi-
tion,” all advertisements must be so marked.
In Vic. the words must be in a triangle.
Where an “A” certificate is issued, denoting
that the picture is suitable for adults but not
for general exhibition, in Vic. the words “Not
suitable for children” must be in a circle and
appear in all advertisements. The Censor does
not require in any State save Vic. publication
of the words “For adults only” or “Not suit-
able for children” in connection with films
granted an “A” certificate.
* * * *
Is the Normandie still the largest merchant
vessel afloat? Comparative figures? —3499.
Lloyd’s Register gives the respective figures as
follows: Normandie, 82,799 registered gross
tonnage; length, 981.4 ft.; breadth, 117.9 ft.;
depth, 57.6 ft. Queen Mary, 80,774 gross ton-
nage; length, 975.2 ft.; breadth, 118.6 ft.; depth,
68.5 ft.
* * * *
How many persons, combatants and non-com-
batants, were killed or injured during the
Great War ? —3368.
No estimate available as regards non-com-
batants. A return compiled by the U.S.A.
War Department in 1924 gave the killed as
8,543,515 and the wounded as 21,219,452. Aus-
tralian losses were: Killed, 40,234; died of
wounds, 13,262; died'other causes, 5852; died
prior to embarkation, 938; total, 60,286.
* * * *
Addresses of some commercial art studios in
Sydney ? —3281.
Royal Art Society, 555 George-street, and
East Sydney Technical College give lessons in
commercial art; other art teachers are J. S.
Watkins, 76 Pitt-street, Dattilo Rubbo, 15 Bligh-
street, and H. A. Hanke, Reiby-place, Sydney.
* * * *
How can gold amalgam that has become
firmly cemented to battery plates after years of
use be removed? —34l3.
The plates are taken off the tables and heated
to a dull red heat so as to drive off the mer-
cury; removed from the fire, allowed to cool
and washed twice with dilute sulphuric acid
(1 to 6), and allowed to stand moistened over-
night, then heated again a little higher than was
done at first. While hot, they are covered with
a half-inch layer of ordinary salt, and sal
ammoniac and allowed to stand until the fizzling
ceases. The plates are then removed, allowed
to cool, and the crust or scale scraped off.
The scales are then treated with warm dilute
nitric acid to dissolve the copper, and the
residue fluxed with borax and a little potassium
nitrate and smelted in a clay crucible. After
scaling, the plates before being used again must
be resilvered and amalgamated like new plates.
* * * *
Correct way of making damper in a camp-
fire? —3515.
You must have a clean, hot fire and be ready
to use it just after all the wood has burnt to a
smokeless red stage. The damper in its sim-
plest form is self-raising flour,' with one tea-
spoon salt to every pound of flour, mixed to
a rather stiff dough with warm water. To
make it more palatable, add a piece of butter
or dripping, melted, to the water. Toss it
up in the hands with flour to avoid sticking,
and form into a round loaf; scrape a hole in
the centre of the fire, drop in the loaf, and
pile it over with hot ashes and glowing char-
coal. It should rise and cook nicely in about
half an hour; dust off the ashes and break it
apart rather than cut it. Only experience will
give you the right knack and time of cooking.
$
Is it safe to use water for making tea and
cooking vegetables from a tank that has been
painted inside with one coat of ordinary paint ?
—3503.
If the paint were very old or very dry no
harm might result, but such water is ’ not
really fit for human consumption. All ordi-
nary paints contain lead, and lead-poisonin^
might be caused in some form so slow and
insidious *that it might not be noticed until
someone’s health was ruined.
♦ ❖ Sfc ♦
Recipe for a preparation for preserving a
tennis net? —3464.
Best preservative is a decoction of gum and
water. Write to B. M. Corrigan and Co.,
189 Sussex-street, Sydney, for a pound or two
of net-preserving gum, 2d. per pound; add
postage or carriage, and ask for directions for
use. State purpose for which it is required.
*l*
Where are the lines commencing “Were half
the power that fills the world with terror” to be
found? —3513.
In Longfellow’s poem “The Arsenal at
Springfield.”
* * * *
Origin, meaning and history of name
Fenella 3—3369.
Sometimes spelt Finella, it is of Celtic origin,
and is a contraction of Fionn-ghuala or Fin-
nuala, “white-shouldered.” Among the varia-
tions is Fynbella, which was the name of the
“Cruel Lady of Fettercairn” who killed King
Kenneth 111., of Scotland. Finvola and Finola
are others. It was formerly a popular McLeod
name. In some families in which it was in
the past a favorite it has been discarded for
its supposed equivalent, Penelope, although the
association is not clear; Flora and Florie also
are regarded as derivatives.
* * * *
Particulars of the last Kings of Saxony,
Bavaria and Wiirtemberg? Dates of death, if
dead? Were they allowed to retain lheir
private fortunes? —3554.
The ruling sovereigns of these three States
abdicated when the revolution which resulted
in Germany becoming a republic occurred in
November, 1918. The last king of Saxony was
Frederick Augustus 111., who succeeded in 1904,
and reigned until the republic was declared on
November 9; he died February 18, 1932. Icing
Ludwig of Bavaria, declared sovereign in 1913,
died in 1921. Coming to the throne in 1891,
King William 11. of Wiirtemberg died on
October 2, 1921. The ex-sovereigns were com-
pensated by the republic on a generous scale.
* * * *
(1) How can salt be removed from possum
skins in process of curing ? (2) Best method
of curing possum skins for Use as a mat?
—3384.
(1) Soak in cold water and change the water
until all salt has been removed. (2) Soak the
skins in cold water for a day, then thoroughly
scrape and clean them, and trim off ragged
pieces. Hang up to drain, and when dry (but
not hard) rub into the flesh side 11b. powdered
alum and lib. fine salt, mixed thoroughly.
Fold down the middle and leave until the next
day. Repeat the process, fold and leave again
for another day; then apply a third dressing
and hang up to dry. When dry, work the
skins well and pull them into shape, rub with
a pumice and brush out the fur.
* * * *
How to tan kangaroo skins with black
wattle-bark ? —3389.
Soak the skins for 24 hours in clean water,
slightly salted. Scrape and trim them, and hang
up to drain. Make up a bath of 41b. chopped
bark in three gallons water, and lay the skins
in. Leave for a week, and turn them every
day, bringing the bottom to the top so that they
all get moved about evenly. Add 21b. more
chopped bark to the bath, with a little more ,
water, and treat again for another week; add
lib. chopped bark again, more water, and
work the skins through it for another week.
Then slip them through two rinsings of clean
water, and hang up to dry. As they dry,
work them about in the hands to prevent stiff-
ness, and when almost dry take down and work
in neatsfoot oil on the skin side, using a
blunt stick for rubbing; this will soften them.
Brush out the fur when finished.
* * * *
Method of waterproofing a camping tent ?
—3448.
Heat 1 quart boiled linseed oil in a tin over
a closed fire. Scrape 4oz. yellow soap into a
basin, cover with boiling water, and when it
has melted to a jelly stir it into the hot oil;
then whisk in about 1 tablespoon powdered
alum and keep all hot. Lay out the tent
material on a table, sponge it with clean water
to just dampen the fabric, and before it dries
paint on the hot oil. Let dry for a few days
and then apply a second hot oil coating, and
later a third if it seems necessary. If drying
is not complete between the coatings the tent
will always be sticky.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of excessive perspira-
tion ? Under-arm and foot perspiration is
most troublesome ? —3400.
Excessive perspiration is commonly associ-
ated with nervous debility. Bathe night and
morning, using a germicidal soap and hot
water, and give special attention to affected
parts. After drying, dab with liquid witch-hazel
and dust with powdered starch. Two heaped
teaspoons of alum dissolved in a pint of water
make a useful astringent for occasional appli-
cation. Moderate exercise and outdoor sport
assist in restoring the normal eliminatory func-
tions of the system. Physical exercises on
rising, followed by a tepid bath, are of benefit.
* * * *
(1) How can 1 prevent any further increase
of weight ? (2) Which is the more important to
consider, diet or exercise ? (3) Would keeping
late hours assist ? (4) Name of a helpful book
op the subject ? —3288.
(1) Heredity and the improper functioning of
certain glands are frequent sources of the
trouble, so that medical examination is neces-
sary before commencing self-treatment. (2)
In the case of ordinary (or physiological)
obesity, diet counts more than exerdse. (3) No.
Loss of sleep means loss of energy. (4) Useful
books are Leonard Williams’s Obesity (Oxford
Medical Publications) and F. A. Hornibrook’s
The Culture of the Abdomen (Heinemann).
* * * *
What are cold blisters ? Cause and treat-
ment ? —2945.
Cold blisters on lips and about the mouth
are due to a form of simple herpes ( herpes
febrilis). There is usually a local congestion;
a cold precipitates the blister formation, but
a definite nerve line is not involved as in true
herpes or shingles. Thin-blooded and fair
persons are usually susceptible. If the trouble
is recurrent, treatment with limewater or cal-
cium salts may be needed. For local treatment,
dab freely with alcohol or spirits of camphor;
dust with starch powder occasionally if skin
is broken. Ointments tend to soften and spread
the sore, and are best avoided in the prelimi-
nary stage. Later, if crust formation is in-
clined to split, smear lightly at night with zinc
cream or olive oil. Fresh milk, cereal foods,
apples and oranges should be included in the
diet; avoid acids, vinegar and the like.
* * * *
What is hiccup? How should it be treated
if persistent ? —3383.
Hiccup is due to spasmodic contraction of
the diaphragm causing a sudden intake of
breath, with closure of the glottis or valve of
the windpipe. Generally it is caused in health
by violent laughing or by taking some irritant
(pepper, etc.) or cold substance. It occurs in
alcoholic poisoning. For simple hiccup
various remedies may be tried, such as holding
the breath, sipping a glass of water slowly or
placing a little salt on the back of the tongue.
A serious type of hiccup occurs in general
peritonitis. It may, however, persist where the
patient is not seriously ill. Nervous disorders,
local irritative conditions of nerves in chest
or abdomen and kidney disease or other
chronic abdominal faults may be causes.
* * * *
What is the best backing for stag- and elk-
horn ferns ? —3332.
Sphagnum moss or rotted bagging. A little
soil or charcoal is helpful. Avoid grass or
straw, which cause heat and destroy the shields
of the ferns. A small tin with one or two
small holes in it placed in the foliage and filled
every morning with water will keep the packing
cool and stimulate growth.
* * * *
Treatment for mildew on roses? —3314.
In dry weather spray the roses with lime-
sulphur solution (trade strength), or in the early
morning when the dew is on the foliage dust
them with flowers of sulphur. Badly-affected
limbs should be cut off and burnt. A table-
spoonful of potash worked into the soil at the
base of the plants will invigorate them (wood
ashes are an excellent substitute).
Brief Answers.
D.M.S.: Strength and physique can be im-
proved by physical culture—class or team exer-
cise is best. See Strength and How to Obtain
It, by Sandow. Required address is 192 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. There is no Melbourne
office; inter-State tuition is by post... J.C.G.:
The Isle of Pines is situated 60 miles off Bata-
bano, on the south-western coast of Cuba. It
has an area of 1180 sq. miles, and is populated
by 4288 people... J.D.S.: Coca is a plant, the
leaves of which are used as a stimulant in the
western countries of South America. It is also
cultivated in the West Indies, India, Ceylon,
Java and elsewhere. The drug cocaine is manu-
factured from the dried leaves W.C.:
Answers to your queries have been posted
J.A.K.: (1) Can see no ground for an action
at law. (2) The council, through its officers,
should have seen that proper specifications and
agreements were furnished. (3) Cannot see
what redress the ratepayers have. They could
call an indignation meeting and communicate
the result to the council... .E.S.: Since you
recognise the wife’s savings as her separate
estate, in the event of her predeceasing you
the money you have borrowed from her would
have to be repaid to her executors; should she
have made a will, or in the event of intestacy,
to the administrator of her estate. She ought
to make a wi11... .J.F.G.: You can call on the
owner or “person legally possessed of and hold-
ing” the adjoining land to assist in equal pro-
portions towards the cost of the dividing fence.
. ...J.R.H.: The stamp duty of 15s. per £lOO
or portion thereof would apply... .S.T.: Yes,
though separated for so many years you are
still her husband, and in the event of her d?°th
and intestacy would take one-third of the money
in any separate estate left by her, the remainder
being divisible among the children, in equal
portions... .H.J.J.: Iron smelting commenced in
N.S.W. near Berrima in 1847 P. 8.: The
strength of the military forces of the States on
Dec. 31, 1900, was: N.S.W. 9338, Vic. 6335,
Qld. 4028, S.A. 2932, W.A. 2696, Tas. 2024....
A.J.R.: The Royal Military College was estab-
lished in 1911 at Duntroon in the Federal Capi-
tal Territory R.P.K.: The greater part of
the shipping visiting Australia is of British
nationality S.T.: When the stems of poin-
settias are cut a milky juice is exuded. It is
not poisonous, but causes intense irritation,
especially to the mouth and eyes. If the affected
parts are washed in a solution of warm water
(one quart) and Epsom salts (one teaspoonful)
the irritation will soon vanish... .A. 8.: Write
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, for a copy of
Anglers’ Guide (free) and Fishing Secrets, by
J.A.D. (Is. 6d.)... .K.F.: Ethel Mannin was
born in London —when is her business. She
married John Alexander Porteus in 1919. Her
first novel, Martha, was published in 1923....
1.P.: Coomonderry is a N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning a small, narrow flat J. 8.8.:
Victoria has scored over 1000 runs in two
matches. Against Tasmania at Melbourne in
1922-23, 1059, and against N.S.W. at Melbourne
in 1926-27, 1107.... W.R.S.: The late Nevile
Howse was Minister for Defence in the Bruce-
Page Ministry from Jan. 16, 1925 L.F.8.: Jan
Kubelik, the Bohemian violinist, visited Australia
in 1908 T.R.W.: (1) July, 1931. (2) Amoupts
paid to hospitals from Consolidated Revenue
Account from 1931-32 to 1935-36 total £3,195,464.
In addition, interest amounting to £75,000 p.a.
is paid from revenue in respect of expenditure
on hospitals from the General Loan Account. (3)
Net profit to June 30, 1936, £3,372,689 16s. sd.
(4) Cost for the year ended June 30, 1936,
£51,161 18s. 9d M.L.G.: Where a testator
specifies in the will the amount to be allowed to
the executor the Court will consider whether
such amount is sufficient, and may allow more
if it thinks fit D.F.: Frederick Clay was an
English musical composer, born 1838 and died
1889. Charles Clay was an English surgeon,
bn-n 1801 and died 1893... .(Many others
mailed.)


Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in
the whole of the area
of Greater Brisbane.
“The Telegraph”
carries the largest
share of local display
and classified adver-
tisements.
The man on the spot
knows relative values .
To follow his example is
often wise.
‘‘The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
LOOKS A SMART PLACE”]
m
ff
1
W\&
5r
r\
•d
S
* —*
WiL£
m
\»~t/ "SS/b't*'
(Notice the Gate)
If a gate is poor it gives a tumbledown touch, but
if it has character and quality you start off by being
prepared to admire the whole place. The gate makes a
big difference. There are no smarter gates than
“Cyclone” and they remain smart. Many “Cyclone”
Gates put up over 30 years ago are still doing credit
to the men who chose them, and—today’s “Cyclone”
Gates are made in a much stronger fashion. The frame
and cross members form an almost undamageable
unit of steel welded into one complete piece, all the
stronger by virtue of the fact that there are no bolt holes
in which rust could start working.
“Cyclone” products are obtainable from your local distributor. For fully-
illustrated catalogue of all types of “Cyclone” gates and other products
write to the “Cyclone” Company. The catalogue will be sent free and
post free.
H
Chain - and - Knob
Fastener always
holds gate securely
closed and cannot
be knocked off, or
lifted off by cattle.
Both hinges are bolt-
ed right through the
post —cannot loosen*
or pull out.
Cudone GATES
The Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
4 Cyclone ’ is not a typo
of gate but is our
registered trademark
and can only be legally
applied to gates man-
ufactured by us.
è
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone” Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
& 11/11/36.
A MIXED GRILL.
Martin Benson (“Ben Sun”), an old
Bulletin contributor, is dead at Ultima
(Vic.). “The Cocky’s Handy Man” and
“When She’s Running Seven Bags,” two
of his Bulletin ballads, are still recited.
He was a ganger on Vic. railways at
High Camp, Heathcote and Ultima, and
74 when he. drew his time.
•1= * * *
In Perth 31 years ago four Liberal
politicians met to discuss who should be.
Premier. One was C. H. Rason, who
was resigning and going back to Eng-
land ; another was Frank Wilson, his
Treasurer ; the third was Harry Gregory,
then Minister of Mines, and the fourth
Newton Moore, the Lands Minister.
Moore, to the surprise, of all Westralia,
got the job ; he was the youngest (only
35) and looked the most robust, though
Rason and Wilson filled the eye as
healthy, well-nourished fellows. Gregory
was the smallest, and apparently the.
frailest, of the. four. He has outlived all
his companions, and the other day at
Canberra he pitched into the trade-war
“policy” with astonishing vigor for a man
rising 77. Little Gregory is a native of
Kynet'on (Vic.); he was the first Mayor
of Menzies (W.A.), and represented it
in the Assembly for 14 years (1897-
1911). He has been a Federal member
since 1913.
v H*
“Kali”: The übiquitous gum (B.
14/10/’36) is doing a spot of good work
in Malaya. For many years an area
of swampy ground not far from the
Istana of the Sultan of Johore had been
a fever hole and a breeding ground for
malaria-carrying mosquitoes. Now the
area has been planted with gums, the
swamp has practically disappeared, and
the natives living in a near-by kampong
are almost malaria-free. Right through
the peninsula can be found plantations
of gums to delight the eye and heart of
exiled Aussies ; but there is one magni-
ficent specimen of bluegum holding its
own in the jungle three miles from the
Crag Hotel on the outskirts of Penang.
It is growing in virgin jungle and has
managed to keep its head above the sur-
rounding bush. Its presence is an un-
explained mystery.
H= * * *
“Coral”: “Crusoe’s” par. on the
Japanese (B. 19/9/’36) fits in with my
own experiences. Trepanging in N.T.
waters from 1928-1932, I had a Japanese
skipper and three Japanese in charge of
my three camps. They were all strictly
honest. It was only because the Sino-
Japanese war made the trepang industry
unprofitable that I got rid of Hoshi-
kawa. He had served me faithfully.
* * * *
“Comeback”: According to the “Geo-
graphic Magazine” one pound of the
finest Ohio wool can be spun to an un-
broken thread 16 miles in length. One
pound of the finest Australian merino
can, however, be spun to an unbroken
length of 22 miles.
* * * *
The Charles Chauvels are off to the
U.S.A. to “brush up their film tech-
nique.” Mrs. Chauvel was born in
Melbourne and spent her girlhood in
S. Africa, where she was at school in
Johannesburg. She went on the stage
and met her future husband, a Queens-
lander, when she was playing in Mel-
bourne with Nellie Bramley. While.
“Uncivilised” was being made at' Palm
Island she did the cooking for nine men,
voting it easier than watching a fat gin
perform strange rites with damper
and tinned foods. She was also liaison
officer between the film people and the
feminine abo. “extras.” It needed an
amount of tact and patience to win the
confidence of the dusky and rather
puzzled ladies, who were required to look
natural and wear just a few clothes. Mrs.
Chauvel found the principal disabilities
of living on a lugger in the Hinchinbrook
Channel were a moderate swell which
resulted in seasickness, imagination neces-
sary to enjoy a bath with a bucket and
a jam-tin, mosquitoes and getting caught
in the middle of a dreamless sleep (her
location being the roof of the cabin) by
a violent tropical downpour. Otherwise
the picnic was good fun.
* * * *
. “Pandanus”: “Laetitia” (B. 14/10/’36)
errs when he asserts that Cooktown has
but one pub. Of the 40-odd that flour-
ished in the roaring days of the Palmer
five still remain. And the beer is not luke-
warm, being frozen by a special process
before it leaves the brewery. The hotel
referred to by “L.” is the West Coast,
and the picture of the old prospector
panning off some dirt represents Charlie
Weiss, one of the old-timers of the
Palmer and later of the Batavia. The
frescoes are the work of Queensland
artist Garnet Agnew, who has done simi-
lar jobs for other Bananaland hotels,
notably Brisbane’s Criterion, the bar walls
of which are decorated with red goblins
drinking from foaming tankards.
* * * *
“Kriz”: “Insect” Bill we used to call
him, because all his spare time used to
be spent out in the bush collecting in-
sects which he would bottle and preserve.
Many of us who came in contact with
him across the counter of the post office
in one of Groperland’s nor’-west towns
spoke of his courteous manner. Others
reckoned he was a trifle “soft.” Some
even referred to him as “Mad Bill.” I
met him again in a post office in one
of the Sydney suburbs. After the usual
reminiscences, I asked him what he had
done with the insects he used to bottle.
“Sold the lot for £300,” said Bill. Yes,
“Insect” Bill was mad the right way.


FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Cup: Bustard, 1 ; Queen of Song,
2 ; Salamander, 3.
Altona Trial: Steel Spear; next,
Restford.
Ozone Highweight: Britebeard;
next, Sculpin.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Clyde Handicap: Black Laughter
or Distinguished ; next, Windbird.
November Handicap: El Senor-
ita or Distinguished ; next, Curator
or Djojka.
Rydalmere Mile: Djojka or
Distinguished ; next, Cool Spell or
Curator.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Young Idea must have been very un-
lucky in the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes*
to have been beaten into third place by
Gay Blonde and Allunga. In the Lin-
lithgow Stakes, also w.f.a., Gay Blonde
finished last of the four that left the
barrier in line—Charles Fox refused to
leave it—whereas Young Idea (3 to 1)
was an easy first. He equalled the mile
record for Flemington, lmin. 36jsec.
Beechwood was second and Regular
Bachelor third, but over the last furlong
it was a procession.
Young Idea came home so strongly in
the Linlithgow Stakes that odds of 7 to
4 were accepted about the Constant
Son four-year-old in the C. B. Fisher
Plate (U miles) at the week-end. How-
ever, he failed to see the journey out,
and no doubt will be restricted to shorter
races in future. Third into the straight,
he then passed out of the picture. The
going was a bit heavy, and probably he
would have preferred it firm.
The C. B. Fisher Plate went to Queen
of Song (6 to 1), who wore down the
pacemaker, Sarcherie (10 to 1), and beat
J. J. Leahy’s mare on the post by half
a head. Silver Ring staged a partial
comeback by running third, but was a
length and a half behind Sarcherie. Hav-
ing finished fourth in the Melbourne
Cup, Queen of Song deserved a win-
ning turn. She is a game mare. Jen-
nings, her jockey, is a Maoriland edition
of Bob Lewis. Though aged 50 or there-
abouts he is fully as vigorous as the
young 'uns, and, what is more to the
point, a brainy rider.
Shakespeare was another horse that
greatly improved on his first day’s form.
Dr. Nigel Smith’s colt won twice. In
the Carnival Handicap he seemed to get
into difficulties at times, but Parsons
manoeuvred him out of them. The owners
of Ramdin and Prince Quex shared in
the money; Shakespeare was favorite
at 2 to 1.
Pat Nailon’s wisdom in withdrawing
Shakespeare from the Melbourne Cup
was emphasised when the Tippler colt
won the Batman Stakes on the final
day. His price was 2 to 1 against. Shake-
speare had his work cut out to beat
Riddle (16 to 1) by a neck ; but he won,
and that was all that mattered. Boon-
garry, next in demand at 3 to 1, finished
only a moderate third. Either Boon-
garry is undependable or he needs more
time for physical development.
The day before the Oaks Siren was
taken out of the Williamstown Cup, Sala-
mander being left in. Going home after
the races on Thursday many punters ex-
pressed the opinion that the operation
should have been reversed. For whereas
Siren (10 to 9 on) won the Oaks easily
(Iva and Korimako were place-getters) in
fast time for the fillies’ race, 2min. 33sec.,
Salamander failed notably in the Vet-
eran Stakes, which went to Turf Boy
(6 to 1), after a spirited set-to with old
St. Valorey and Steel Spear. With Knox
on top, the post nearest the rails, and a
favorable, position early, Salamander
should have had every chance ; but ob-
servers report that she was badly inter-
fered with. And she is not built for
heavy weather.
It was courting defeat to ask Dame
Chatter to make her own pace in the
Oaks. Presumably those associated with
the Windbag filly wanted to obviate the
race being reduced to a sprint over the
last half-mile or so. But Dame Chatter
always has been slow to find her legs,
and was utterly unsuited to the role that
had been assigned to her. She did not
even gain a place.
Bailey Payten proved the most suc-
cessful trainer at the meeting. He won
on successive days with Siren (Wakeful
Stakes), Disalto (Railway Highweight
Handicap) and Siren (Oaks). The most
pleasing feature of these achievements
was that Siren stood revealed as a
stayer. She is the first' of Valicare’s pro-
geny to gain distinction*beyond a mile.
Lochlee completely re-established his
reputation as the best juvenile of the
season in Australia by taking the Byron
Moore Stakes on Thursday. His signal
defeat by Sweet Memories in the Mari-
byrnong Plate is incomprehensible, as
the filly failed sadly in her next outing.
Lochlee, a handsome son of Veilmond,
will now go into retirement until the
autumn. He' is the logical favorite for
the Derbies of 1937 at Randwick and
Flemington.
Fearnought (Beau Fils-Redgrass), win-
ner of the Flemington Stakes on Satur-
day, started at 11 to 2, being next in
demand to Satyr and Nightguard. He
is trained by H. J. Morrison, who rode
for the W. R. Wilson stable in days gone
by. Fearnought had only a neck to spare
from Harborage (33 to 1), a Drake colt
bred by “S. A. Rawdon,” who has not
had much success with gallopers since
the death of his old trainer Adam Skir-
vmg.
Princess Pam, a daughter of Salma-
gundi, the sire of Siren, inflicted a half-
neck defeat on Joan Darling in the
Ottawa Stakes. She received solid sup-
port at 5 to 1, but double those odds
was on offer against Joan Darling.
Favorite picks were C. B. Kellow's Cleo-
patra (2 to 1) and Peter Riddle’s Atalanta
(3 to 1). There is a race in sight for
Cleopatra (Heroic-Desert Song), but
Atalapta was weighed in the balance
and found wanting.
Least fancied of the V.R.C. Handicap
field, Hot Shot (15 to 1) beat the pace-
maker, Tapestry, by half a neck. Amalia,
decidedly unlucky, was only a head olf,
third. Hot Shot had done nothing to-
wards repaying training expenses for
many months. He is by Pantheon. Hot
Shot raced in the colors of the late F. J.
Marsden, and he still belongs to a mem-
ber of the Marsden family.
When sending that stallion to the post
for the Melbourne Cup, Jack Holt pro-
nounced Balkan Prince to be the fittest
horse ever he trained, and Holt added:
“He is as honest as the sun, too.” Balkan
Prince finished a meritorious third, and
on the strength of that achievement he
was heavily backed in the V.R.C. Handi-
cap. But, though third most of the way
and second at the distance, the Westralian
galloper compounded and beat only one
rival. .Balkan Prince may be feeling
the strain of spring racing.
That much-improved gelding Aitch-
engee came from the rear of the field to
register a handsome win in the Final
Handicap— at 6 to I—On1 —On Parade was
second. He was adjudged unlucky in
running, but wouldn’t have beaten Aitch-
engee in any circumstances, as the win-
ner had 2\ lengths to spare, and was eas-
ing up. Aitchengee is named after his de-
ceased breeder, G. N. Harris, whose
initials (reversed) were H.N.G. Prittle
Prattle was favorite. He finished fifth. The
best has yet to be seen of this nice horse,
but he has been unlucky this season.
* * * *
“0.T.H.”: Writer of this par. has wit-
nessed 36 consecutive Melbourne Cups
without seeing anything to approach the
1936 contest in thrills. To some extent
the lead set up by Young Crusader paral-
leled that established by Comus in 1926,
but the half-brother to an English Derby
hero punctured a long way from home
and obviously had set the pace for a
stable-mate. Young Crusader essayed to
repeat what he had done in the Metrop.
at Randwick. “Going-for-the-doctor”
tactics do not pay over a journey of two
miles against the cream of Australian and
M.L. gallopers. Comus largely con-
tributed to Spearfelt’s winning the 1926
Cup. Jim Pike, on the favorite, Pan-
theon, felt obliged to go in pursuit of
the runaway leader. Left in front too
far from home, Pantheon had to sur-
render to Spearfelt and Naos.
* * * *
Balkan Prince’s good form in Mel-
bourne draws attention to Yaringa, who
was decidedly a better three-year-old in
the West. Except in the W.A.T.C. Bel-
gravia Stakes, a mile race run in Perth
a year ago—Balkan Prince was first and
the filly second—Yaringa beat him everv
time they met: W.A.T.C. Strickland
Stakes, W.A. Derby (in each case
Yaringa was first and Balkan Prince
second), Perth Cup (Yaringa was third,
Balkan Prince twelfth) and the St. Leger
(Yaringa first, Balkan Prince third).
Yaringa, of course, was not brought to
Melbourne for the spring.
* * * *
It has certainly been a banner season
for outsiders in big handicaps: Capris
(Epsom), 33 to 1 ; Young Crusader
(Metrop.), 14 to 1 ; Northwind (Caulfield
Cup), 66 to 1, and Wotan (Melbourne
Cup), 100 to 1. The Bulletin picked
two. No other newspaper nor any of
the strident band of professional tipsters
got one.
*** * t
To this Page, Wise Boy looked the best
bet of the day at Canterbury. Ridden
into the ground in the Varroville Handi-
cap at Warwick Farm, he yet contrived
to run a close third in a good field. His
party wisely instructed Willsher to ride
him more patiently in the Flying Handi-
cap, for which he went out at fives—-
better could be got. Wise Boy chased
Spearmeta to the turn, and taking charge
at the Leger beat Raleigh and Lavage,
with something in hand. Short Wave,
having his first race after a spell, looked
burly, but was in the market. His fourth
suggests an early win. Lord Sun came
home well, but Spearmeta “walked” over
the last furlong.
Oscar Keysen got a bargain when
Sally, auctioned as a yearling, was
knocked down to his bid of 17 guineas.
In the Canterbury Handicap on Satur-
day she registered her ninth success.
Threes could be got—threes in a field
of six!
The result was not in doubt at any
stage. Young Cox, on Sally, trailed Mira-
mond, who was ridden out of the barrier
with the whip, until the half-mile pole
was in sight, and then, shooting his
mount away, he scored with ease, Deep-
dene being third. Dandaloo made a
forward move at the Leger, but her spurt
was soon over. She is not much good.
Old Dermid, looking bright enough,
was favorite for the Ashbury Handicap.
On a track that probably doesn’t suit
him, he was not equal to beating Dick
Wootton’s Prince’s Daughter (4 to 1) and
St. Globe, though he battled on gamely
to fill third place. Rose' Gem acted as
the pacemaker. An unwise move ; she
was beaten two furlongs from home.
Prince’s Daughter was bred by her owner.
Mrs. Albert Abel, wife of the owner
of The Marne, saw her colors carried to
victory in the Park Stakes by Point Blank,
Point Blank romped home from a coun-
try performer, Wonderland, and Riposte.
A Maoriland-bred mare, she put in a
long run over the last half-mile, and
may develop into a useful stayer. She
was backed from fives to threes. She
is trained by W. Kelso.
Rummage landed a plunge in the first
division of the Highweight Handicap.
She had done well since since running
third to Distinguished at Randwick, and,
after being laid at eights, closed at fours.
John o’ Groats essayed to lead through-
out. Cistura kept him company ; but
Rummage put in her claim in the last
furlong and won decisively. Un Brave
came home well in third place, though
a couple of lengths behind John o’
Groats. Raleigh, brought out again,
firmed from sixes to 7 to 2 in the second
division. He just outstayed Rosaban and
Many Fril, proving that Wise Boy’s form
was good. The favorite, New Tip, went
well while his condition lasted.
Sedition (20 to 1), a stylish-looking colt
by Sion, showed heaps of pace in the
colts’ division of the Two-year-old
Stakes, leading throughout and holding
off Perimond and Hirai. It was his first
start. He is owned and prepared for racing
by the Canterbury mentor R. Rogers.
The fillies’ division proved a soft snap
for Rhoda Fleming (Caledon-Clare D),
who cost Ascot trainer George Carr 70
guineas. She recently won at Kensing-
ton, and some nice wagers were landed on
Saturday at fourteens.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: Astonishment is being
expressed in Sydney newspapers that s.p.
é


THIS LATEST
PLANE LOOPS. ROLLS,
ZOOMS
Wine
Span
inches
Price
3/3
Length
14 inch
„„ . 2 for 6/-
The latest thing in Model Aeroplanes this model
is made with body and frame o< pHable__and_extremgly
itiong cue which withstands hard knocks amazingly
King so light, it adds immeasurably to the flying
distance and capacity for stunts. By simple adjustments
it can be made to do almost anything of which a large
ilane is capable Price 3/3. 2 for 6/*. . Obtainable only
plane is capaoie rnce a/a. t ior o/-. -vjiy;
from Union Mfg~. & Agency. 299 Elizabeth St., Melb, Cl.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On SaV All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
'Phone: BWI2IB
INTERNATIONAL CRICKET.
ENGLAND v. NEW SOUTH WALES
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, NOV. 13, 14, 16, 17.
ê
Play Commences 12 Noon.
N.S.W. TEAM: S. J. McCabe (Captain),
A. Chipperfield, J. H. Fingleton, L. C. Hynes,
A. Marks, N. McGilvray, A. Mudge, W. A. Old-
field, W. J. O’Reilly, R. Robinson, E. S. White,
V. Jackson (12th man).
ADMISSION:
Outer Ground—Adults, 1/8 \ plus |d. tax, 1/9; Children, 9d.
Grandstand—Adults, 3/31 plus 2sd. tax, 3/6; Children, 1/6.
H. HEYDON, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George Street, Sydney.
ë
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Under the Whip
Melbourne Cups are never won the
way young Duncan tried to win on
Young Crusader. True, Posinatus led
most of the way in his year (1913), but
then the jockey contrived to slow the
fieiu down, the two miles occupying
3min. 31 sec. And Newhaven was in the
lead for the last mile and a half or so
of his Cup journey (1896), completed in
3min. 28jsec.
The writer witnessed Newhaven’s per-
formance, and brackets it with Man-
fred’s achievement in the A.J.C. Derby
(1925) as the greatest exhibition of speed
plus staying power he has ever seen on
a racecourse. On the Saltwater River
side, the Newminster colt, with the
jockey taking a gentle tug, was four or
five lengths in front of the nearest of
his 24 opponents, and 23 were under the
whip—the other was the ultimate runner-
up, Bloodshot. But Newhaven was
never more than eight lengths in the
lead ; and when he returned triumphant
to the winning enclosure, the Wise Men
of Flemington shook their heads. “He
won all right,” they said, “but he wasn't
well ridden. There was no necessity to
take that risk of cracking up a great
colt.”
What would those old-timers have said
if they had seen Young Crusader out 20
lengths? When the field of 20 had
travelled three furlongs, the chestnut had
an advantage of six lengths. Another
three furlongs and he had doubled it;
between the mile and a quarter and the
seven furlongs he was urged on to such
an extent that Talking, who had all along
been second to him, was 20 lengths be-
hind. At the entrance
to the straight, the gap
had been reduced to
six lengths ; though the
others were steadily
gaining on him, Young
Crusader was still the
leader a furlong and a
half from home. But
then he stopped sud-
denly, and the jockey,
realising that he was
done, let him take his
time over the rest of
the journey. Had it
been the Metropolitan
over again, he would
have won again. Had
the same tactics been
employed he might
have even won at a
mile and three-quar-
ters. But they were
suicidal tactics in the
severest two-mile race
in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, perhaps in the world.
While Young Crusader still had the
lead, Talking was beginning to drop
back. He had pulled a lot, and he is roo
much of a puller ever to win a Cup
unless he sobers down. Queen of Song
looked a possibility at the distance ; then
Silver Standard —never farther back than
sixth —singled out, and nearly everyone
thought he was at last about to break his
disheartening succession of seconds. But
a strange brown horse in strange colors
—pale blue, gold collar, cuffs and cap —
swooped down on the Sydney chestnut,
caught him, passed him. It was Wotan.
Until Wotan’s number went up, the
crowd of 110,000 was too dazed to cheer.
Then it began to cheer while still mar-
velling, for Wotan had gone out at 100
to 1, and 200 to 1 was laid. The long-
est-priced Cup winner since The Pearl
(1871), and he had cut the. record for the
race and for two miles to 3min. 21|sec.
Silver Standard was only a neck behind
him ; third, a length and a quarter away,
was Balkan Prince; then came Queen
of Song, Amalia, Mala, Talking and
Bustard.
The betting was 3 to 1 Talking, 7 to 1
Silver Standard and Desert Chief, 8 to 1
Mala, 10 to 1 Sarcherie and Young
Crusader, 14 to 1 Amalia, 15 to 1 Balkan
Prince, 25 to 1 to 100 to 1 the others.
Wotan is owned by three brothers
named Smith, who run a dairy-farm at
Mangaweka in Maoriland’s North Island,
and have a blood mare or two running
about the place. In 1927 they bought
Left, by Martian, sire of stayers, out of
Lovelorn. Mated with Hunting Song,
Left presented them with Peter Jackson,
winner of the Moonee Valley Cup (1933),
and Gaine Carrington, winner of the
Caulfield Cup (1933) and third in the
Melbourne Cup the same year. Wotan
is a half-brother to those horses, the sire
being Siegfried, by Son-in-law. Thus
their hobby has proved immensely profit-
able ; and, now that the market for Aus-
tralian-bred stock has shown great im-
provement, Australian farmers with
good grass, preferably in limestone coun-
try, might do worse than follow their
example. The, Smiths do not bet to any
extent, but the long price enabled them
to make substantial gains. No one else
would back the horse with anything
like confidence, for Wotan had done little
racing. His only successes were in hack
races and the like: and in his previous
Australian starts he was sixth in the
A.J.C. Clibborn Stakes last year and
ninth in the W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee
Valley (he was 100 to 1 in that) last
month. There is talk of taking him
“Coin t' race ’im at the tin-ares, Joe?"
to the United States, but he seems too
slow off the mark to have, much chance
of success in that country.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wilson, the. Victorian middleweight,
is knocking ’em out in a round. The
latest to suffer this experience was Wally
Hancock, the R.A.N. slugger.
* * * *
“Mat”: Harry Hay, the N.S.W. swim-
ming coach, has been invited by Japan
to take a team of amateur wrestlers and
boxers to Cherry Blossom Land early in
1938. The date will interfere, with the
Empire Games in Sydney, and an altera-
tion is being negotiated. Boxing is a
modern sport in Japan. Wrestling, how-
ever, is as old as the nation itself, but it
is of a special brand. The Japanese
wrestlers of the old type cultivate im-
mense weight as well as muscular power,
and much of their work consists in try-
ing to shove each other out of a ring
by sheer weight applied through their
paunches. But it is Western-style
wrestling the Australians have been in-
vited to take part in, and in this regard
their hosts to be are asking for middle-
and lightweights only. It is proposed
to find all accommodation for the team
in Japan and pay half travelling costs.
Ins and Outs
Rain interrupted the Victoria-M.C.C.
game on Saturday morning just as the
Englishmen finished their first innings.
Hammond was given a rest, and Leyland
came into the side for the first time. The
left-hander was patchy, but produced the
impression that if he could stay long
enough he might find his form. He went,
run out, at 24. As in the previous matches,
the slow bowlers troubled the visitors.
Barnett, one of the openers, stayed long
enough to put together 131, and Hard-
staff got 85, but both were dropped a
couple of times—the fielding of the Vic-
torians, slips particularly, was atrocious.
Fishlock (42 n. 0.) was the only other to
shape like a batsman. Frederick, a be-
spectacled slow right-hander, a newcomer
to the Victorian team, finished with six
for 65—it was all out 344—flattering
figures for bowling which for the most
part seemed straight up and down.
* * * *
After looking like anyone’s game up to
the last day, the England-South Australia
match at Adelaide went to the invaders
by 105 runs. Hammond again saved the
day in England’s second innings with
136 out of 236, and Cotton (4 for 38)
and Ward (5 for 98) again puzzled the rest
of the visitors. For a time S.A. shaped
like getting the necessary 308 runs. Allen
(3-32) and Verity (5-34) settled that: all
out for 202. Vic Richardson topped with
a steady 55.
“Tenth Slip”: Hammond’s second cen-
tury in the match against S. Aus. made
his fourth in succession, and ties with
Bradman’s Australian achievement,
though, as Don made his runs against
the South Africans for N.S.W. and Aus-
tralia, most will rate his performance the
better. Hammond has now five twin-
centuries in first-class cricket to his
credit, and has only to do the trick again
to equal Hobbs’s record, compiled over
a much greater span of years.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Having, in accordance with
its usual practice, given the match to the
opposition by an inept first innings, the
Queensland Sheffield team at Brisbane
made 416 in its second try against
O’Reilly and co. —Tallon 100, Amos 93,
Andrews 85 and Oxenham 50 n.o.
O’Reilly’s three wickets cost 154. N.S.W.
narrowly dodged a licking in the second
innings, losing nine for the 227 wanted
to win. Oxenham took six for 67 in the
•match.
“0.Q.”: In Brisbane Marks hit a single
and, running, bumped ’keeper Tallon.
who let a hot return go to the boundary.
According to a Sydney paper, “Marks
sportingly declined to take the additional
runs.” The rules emphatically state that
the runs for the overthrow must be added
to any others scored, and neither Marks
nor anyone else had any authority to de-
cline being credited with them. If this
sort of thing goes on cricketers will soon
be imitating the alleged courtesies of the
tennis court, where a player throws a
point away if he thinks the umpire has
treated his opponent unjustly. We may
yet see Bradman, on his way to his usual
century, giving a lollipop chance to the
bowler because the latter’s appeal for
l.b.w. off the previous ball had been
disallowed.
“Five Ways”: R. W. Berry, official
cricket-scorer for station 4QG in Bris-
bane, literally died at his post. In the
broadcasting tower, while Amos was
playing a hurricane innings against N. S.
Wales, he suddenly collapsed. Listeners-
in could plainly hear the commotion
caused in the tower through the mike, but
did not realise the import. The dead
man, who was 57, had been an enthusi-
astic follower of cricket for many years
as a scorer for Toombul club and the
State, and had a wide acquaintance
among Queensland and Australian
cricketers.
* # * *
“Aunt Sally”: The “Didn’t I tell y’?”
experts are already proclaiming the Eng-
lishmen washed out and hung up to dry,
with Hammond the only man in the side
to be reckoned a batsman’s bootlace. The
estimate ignores Leyland, one of the most
formidable batsmen Australian bowlers
have met, and Hardstaff, who made big
scores against all the States for Holmes’s
team. The real disappointment to date
is the bowling. Allen’s showing as the
super-trundler of the side is too good
to be true, while it will amaze no one
more than the English experts. Voce
is patently short of a gallop, and Verity
has not given the impression of break-
ing his neck for wickets to date. Much
will turn on Copson, on whose fast bowl-
ing English experts build high hopes.
* * * *
“Wotan”: The matter of the Cup being
settled, the experts are sitting down to
pick the Australian XI for the first Test
against England in Brisbane next month.
The job isn’t nearly as cut-and-dried as
it looked after the South Africans came
back. At present only Bradman,
O’Reilly, McCabe, Ward and Oldfield
look gilt-edged stock. Ebeling and Mc-
Cormick are fairly sure, since they are
the best of their type available. Robin-
son’s score in Brisbane has advanced his
chances. This is being written before
the Victoria-England match, with the
N.S.W. fixture to follow, and a lot may
depend on results in those games. The
selectors should avoid at all costs the old
method of giving tried and often-found-
wanting players another chance.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Marylebone refuses to
be stampeded into sending out extra
cricketers to replace Allen’s casualties.
He left England with 17 men, and if he


Public Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES,
NO LIABILITY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared on
all the issued shares in the capital of the Com-
pany.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Thursday, the
10th day of December, 1936.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, the 18th day of
November, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Friday,
the 20th day of November, 1936, and share-
holders registered on Thursday, the 19th day
of November, 1936, will be entitled to receive
the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.
November 5, 1936.
Legal Notices.
SARAH ANN HUTTON, DECEASED.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania dated the 13th day of
August 1936 in the matter of the estate of
SARAH ANN HUTTON late of Hobart in
Tasmania Spinster deceased intestate who died
on or about the Fourth day of October 1935
AND in the action the Public Trustee against
John Hutton and others whereby the follow-
ing inquiry was directed that is to say an
inquiry who were the persons entitled by virtue
of or according to the statute of distribution
or otherwise to the estate of the said Sarah
Ann Hutton deceased intestate living at her
death and whether any of them are since dead
and if so who are their legal personal repre-
sentatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are on or before the Fourth day of
January 1937 to send by post prepaid to the
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart Tasmania Australia
their full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claim
or in default thereof they will be excluded trom
the benefit of the . said order unless the Court
or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before his Honor the Judge at his
chambers Franklin Square Hobart on Monday
the Ist day of February 1937 at 10.30 o’clock
in the forenoon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. A claimant
not residing in the State of Tasmania must send
with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in the State of Tasmania to
whom notices for the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 28th day of September, 1936.
R. G. BINGHAM, Registrar.
Note. —Any children of John Hutton born in
Buckinghamshire England who settled in Tas-
mania before 1862 or their children are inquired
for.
Particulars of Charles Halliday who resided
in Hobart in 1852 and left Tasmania before
1860 are inquired for.
PAGE, HODGMAN, SEAGER & DOYLE,
of Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Solici-
tors for the Plaintiff.
iiiiiii
mm
S&s"
V-8 Utility is the best yet
produced for country work”
“In 15 years of motoring I have owned
and operated seven cars of different makes.
There is no doubt in my mind that the
best in every respect is my present Ford
V-8 Utility,” writes a New South Wales
owner. “To give you an idea of real
performance I would quote a recent trip of
45 miles. Fifteen miles was over a formed
road, and the remaining thirty miles was
over a particularly difficult bush track.
I left in company with two drivers in other
makes and completed the journey in under
two hours. My companions took four
hours for the same journey and both stated
that they had driven over the worst road
they had ever experienced. Frequently I
drive over a track which is considered
impassable for motor traffic. After exper-
ience like this I can say that in my opinion
the V-8 Utility is the best for country work
that has yet been produced.” Your Ford
dealer will gladly arrange a test of the
V-8 Utility under your own operating
conditions. Easy purchase terms arranged.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-ft UTILITIES
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F120.24C
cannot find a whole eleven out of that
lot it seems a pity. If the blatherskite
at receptions and in the daily journals is
to be believed, the game’s the thing, and
it matters not at all which side wins. Why
then dispatch reinforcements from Eng-
land in order to make the side strong
enough to win at all costs? We had a
lot too much of that spirit when the last
English team was out, and want no more
of it. But it is hard to avoid the con-
clusion that modern cricketers are a
cotton-wool lot. Nothing less than 17
will do for a touring team now. In the
early days of these tours a dozen or, at
the most, 13 players were considered
ample. These teams played, in many
instances, matches against odds and on
wickets and under conditions which
would freeze the blood of the pampered
modern.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Queensland C.A. is per-
turbed over the falling-off in member-
ship tickets. When Brisbane saw its first
Test against Chapman’s team 1190 mem-
bers were on the list. In 1932 there were
only 950 paying for the pleasure of see-
ing Jardine and Larwood do their stuff ,
but the Q.C.A- had given the golden
goose one in the breadbasket by sticking
another 6s. 6d. on to the price. Last
year’s membership was only 271. This
year an entrance fee of 17s. 6d. is being
charged for new members or those who
have not been members since the pre-
vious Test. Add to that 10s. for re-
served seats, and members find watching
Test cricket in Brisbane is becoming a
costly business.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The Queensland C.A.
is having its broadcasting troubles. It
has had canvas screens erected along the
Stanley-street side of the Brisbane
Cricket Ground. Stanley-street is
narrow, and on the side opposite the
cricket ground are high buildings with
balconies which, when a big match is
on, are thronged with photographers and
broadcasters. The new screens have
crabbed the style of these, and protests
have been bitter. The Q.C.A. blandly
says if put up the screens only to see how
the shadows from a proposed new grand-
stand would fall on the ground.
* * * *
“Shore”: Clarrie Hogue, the North
Sydney bowler,, hoisted something of a
record for district cricket the other day
when he took his one thousandth wicket.
Hogue began grade cricket some time last
century.
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W.C.A. is evi-
dently determined to economise. It is
announced that during the next Country
Week all-day matches will be played, and
teams will bring their own lunch. It
seems stingy. The least the C.A. can do
is to provide the players with bread and
margarine—butter is, of course, out of
the question.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The soldier-cricketer is
a very rare bird in modern first-class
cricket. The death of Major E. G. Wyn-
yard, at 75, removes one of the best of
the several who stood high in English
cricket a generation or more ago. An old
Carthusian, he played most of his cricket
for Hampshire and M.C.C. Twice invited
to Australia, he could not get the leave.
All the same, he visited South Africa with
an English XI in 1905, and captained a
Marylebone team through M.L. in 1906.
He played in one Test for England in
1896 against Harry Trott’s team. A
fine forcing bat, Wynyard was rated a
first-class ’keeper in a day when Gregor
Macgregor, Storer and Lilley were in
their prime. As an athlete he, had an
unusual range, playing first-class Soccer
and hockey, while in 1894 he won the
tobogganing championship of Europe.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: In spite of informed
criticism of our easy golf courses, there
is no sign of any of the clubs launching
improvement schemes. Not all the links
are capable of being converted to genuine
tests of a golfer—Royal Sydney, for in-
stance, can never be much more than a
charming course for ladies. But others
could be improved at comparatively small
expense. For instance, the furlong-wide
fairways at some courses could be con-
siderably narrowed, with a genuine rough
on each side, while diagonal bunkers,
dog-leg holes, slanting and undulating
greens with Hindenburg line bunkers and
other amenities would improve them im-
measurably from a real golfing point
of view.
“Shirley”: The Maoriland golf cham-
pionships ended with play for the ama-
teur title, which Hornabrook retained.
The professional championship went to
Clements, of Christchurch, who downed
Shaw, the open champion, 3 and 2.
Hornabrook, with Jim Ferrier, has been
invited to tour the U.S.A. with Sarazen
and Helen Hicks. Our irrational old
friend the amateur status may intervene.
* * * *
The N.S.W. golf-assistants’ professional
championship was won by a dark horse,
Chaplin, who helps W. Mackenzie to
shoulder the job of guide, philosopher
and friend to members of the Aus-
tralian club. His opponent in the final
was Gorman, of Canberra, who had pre-
viously outed his brother, the Bonnie
Doon Gorman, in a semi-final. Chaplin
won 3 and 2.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The question of abolish-
ing tennis ranking lists has been to the
fore in England. The general run of
objectors points out that every expert
and every country issue a different list,
and each is inclined to place his or its
fellow-countrymen higher on it than
their merits justify. A section of the
feminine element is more emphatic still.
It affirms that some of the cats on the
list who should never be within a
donkey’s bray of it have won to their
eminence by vamping the expert.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: A London friend
has made public a letter in which Perry
says his solicitor is calling him to New
York to sign an O’Brien contract. A
condition precedent is the payment of
£lO,OOO, and a series of matches with
Vines is to follow. Perry is wise to hop
into the money game while the going
is good.
'■¥ * * *
“Moo”: The tennis complex crops up
in the most unexpected quarters. A Ma
State dairy-farmer noted with grief that
Strawberry was, apparently, developing
tuberculosis. He segregated her from the
herd. Later a vet. who was summoned
to operate on an ugly-looking jaw lump
extracted a tennis ball which had be-
come stuck between the cheek and jaw-
bone of his patient.
Miscellaneous
“Splash” • The NSW swimming
heads have sent invitations to a groun of
Americans to visit Sydney in January,
The matter was a i rea dy being attended
to by the Australian controlling body
w h OS e function it is to issue such invi-
tations, but the Ma Staters have grown
impatient.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: As was to be expected,
Horace Lindrum is coming on in his
game in England where he has been
ru bbing the rough edges off against cham-
pions h The improvement T espedX
marked at snooker, at which he has
a i ways been an exceptional player,
Against Davis he hoisted 116 and 104
runs in on£ d The feat was n£V£r
accomplished before. In Australia
Horace has made 139, but this was not
accepted as a record by the British Bil-
liards Association,
“Long Island”; After the last
America’s Cup race, with its accusations
and counter-charges of fouling, a good
many hoped that the useless and costly
affair might be abandoned. However, the
last challenger, Sopwith, has swallowed
his chagrin and has again thrown his
hat into the ring. Harold Vanderbilt,
Sopwith’s opponent in the last races and
the accompanying spate of Billingsgate,
is to build the freak defending yacht. It
will cost him a million dahlars before
the finish, and no good done to the cause
of sport or the craft of genuine yacht-
building.
* * * *
“Quaker”: The women’s international
hockey conference at Philadelphia de-
cided to hold the next triennial tournev
in London in the autumTof 1939 E
was announced that Maoriland, Fiji and
Canada were joining the federation and
would appear in London. Miss Ogilvie,
of Australia, was re-elected a vice-presi-
dent of the federation. The American
delegates pressed for alteration of the
rules to permit substitutes in games, but
this was defeated. It was pointed out
that in some American sports where sub-
stitution was allowed it occasionally hap-
pened that the team which finished the
game was entirely different in personnel
from the one which started.


SALES & ADVERTISING EXECUTIVE
AVAILABLE.
HIGHLY-QUALIFIED executive seeks greater
scope for creative energy, seasoned experience
and progressive ideas.
Exceptional local and overseas experience in
Advertising, Sales Promotion, Market Research,
Industrial Psychology and Staff Training.
Available at short notice. Interview arranged
with pleasure.
“EFFICIENCY,” Box 1394, G.P.0., Sydney.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue Now on Sale.
FIXED TRUSTS
TUNG OIL ’
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
SEARCH FOR PETROLEUM
THE METAL MARKETS
PRICE 2\- PER COPY , OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
DEAFNESS
from causes such as catarrh, head noises,
running ears, perforated or destroyed natural
Drums is relieved by wearing
WILSON’S EAR DRUMS
They are to weak hearing what
spectacles are to weak sight,
sound magnifiers just as glasses
are sight magnifier?.
They make all sound strike
hard on the ceutre of the
natural Ear Drum, causing
you to hear perfectly. hey .
also protect the inner ear from j
cold wind and changes of <
temperature. i
They are so soft in the ears
and out of sight when worn.
The price is £l/2/—, which
includes a pair of Drums,
Inserter and Remover. Write I
for free Booklet or order now.
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
WILSON EAR DRUM CO.,
279 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Trade—and Finance
Wool is now at a price better than
at any time in 1935, but is still
below the level established between
January and May, 1936. The clip for 1936-
37 promises to be a slightly larger one,
and the cheque would show a substantial
increase if the Government had let things
alone, for the statistical position was
never better.
The wheat harvest, subject to weather
conditions, for 1936-37 is expected to
be around 129,000,000 bushels, a drop
of 13,000,000 bushels (9 p.c.). Average
prices for the first four months of this
season are up over 30 p.c. on lasl
season’s average, and present rates are
substantially higher. With metals soaring
all round, the national income for the
next eight or nine months should show
expansion. But there is drought here
and there, and in coastal N. S. Wales con-
ditions are already very dry, especially
in the North Coast dairying districts.
A quarter’s overseas trade figures show
that imports are far outstripping in-
creased export values. The last quarterly
banking statistics indicated a very tight
condition of credit, partly traceable to
these excessive overseas purchases and
the drain on London funds Here is a
state, of affairs that may undo much of
the spadework put in during the de-
pression years towards bringing interest
and other costs down to a level which
would assist, not hamper, industry.
Trade at the moment, it can be said
from the foregoing, is comparatively
good. Financial conditions, it can also
be said, are another matter. The poli-
tical explanation (by Mr. Lyons last
March) was that “prosperity is going
ahead like a snowball, and it is hard to
slow it down, just as it was hard to slow
down the onset of depression.” That
was when the banks lifted their interest
rates by 10s. per cent.
No eyewash can disguise the position
for long. The plain facts are that public
borrowing is still excessive, that every
new loan nowadays carries increased in-
terest, that our London position is defi-
nitely unhealthy, and that unless
measures are taken to steady the situa-
tion much of the benefit we should re-
ceive from this year’s improved world
prices and our own labor may be nulli-
fied.
Melbourne Steam ordinaries changed
hands at 275. last week, after seeing 31s.
in September. For a couple of years
the average has been over 30s. 'ln
1934-35 the co. claimed a profit equal
to 10 p.c. on ord. capital (after paying
the prefs.). In the 1935-36 term there
was a shipping strike for 114 days,
and disclosed earnings dropped to
5\ p.c. on ord. capital. But sea-
men are now licensed, and further
serious labor troubles are not so likely.
In addition to disclosed profits, there
have been large annual additions to
depreciation and miscellaneous reserves
(now £378,942). At the last annual meet-
ing the chairman said: “It is obvious,
even after allowing for the necessary
depreciation, that the value of the co.’s
assets is much in excess of the subscribed
capital of £366,000.” A market premium
of no more, than 35 p.c. for the scrip
seems scarcely an acknowledgment of
this fact. The yield at 275. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis is a shade under 4.5 p.c., and
given anything like fair conditions there
should soon be improvement. The co.
owns a gross tonnage of 22,970, and the
depreciation reserve offsets the value of
nearly every vessel except the new Dun-
troon, which is reported to be “giving
excellent service.” A restoration of cuts
in freight rates soon is probable, and
shipping earnings generally should
benefit.
Adelaide Steam shares sold to 335. 6d.
last week, up 6s. since mentioned here
a month or so back. Considering the
speculative interest in colliery scrip at
the moment, attention of those attracted
by coal-trade revival possibilities is still
directed to this stock, which is a very
large shareholder in J. A. Brown-Aber-
main Seaham. The whole of Adelaide
Steam’s coal and other investments out-
side of actual subsidiary (tug and air-
service) cos. is given a book value of
around £300,000. A present income is
assured from steamship services, and if
coal does “come good” improved divi-
dends should follow.
* * * *
The revival in coal shares, in evidence
last week, may be another nine days’
wonder. Talk of hydrogenation for petrol
production and suggested regulation of
outputs and prices by owners seem to
“ It's jist a 'abit of mine when I'm servin' a stretch —I make a notch f'
each month!"
be the basis of sharemarket activity.
Hydrogenation or carbonisation of coal
to supply the Commonwealth with its
whole petrol requirements wouldn’t result
in big orders if the demand were spread
over all N. S. Wales collieries. Regula-
tion of output may come —it would be
of vast benefit to coalowners —but no-
thing tangible in this regard is yet in
sight.
Coal hauled by N. S. Wales railways
during the period Jan. 1-Sept. 30
amounted to 5,144,000 tons —up 223,000
tons. Exports from the State were
126,000 tons better at 2,290,000 tons.
There is nothing in these figures to war-
rant excitement in colliery scrip.
sf: H* *
David Rivett', chief of the C.5.1.R.,
who has been investigating oil-from-coal
processes in England and Germany (he
left Australia last May), leaves for
home this week, with, it is to be hoped,
some clear and intelligent views on the
vital question. He will arrive back on
Dec. 20. When he does a couple of
political balloons will probably burst.
* * * *
Victor G. Elliott, chairman of the
£2,439,912-capitalised Drug Houses Co.,
said in Melbourne last week that busi-
ness generally in the Commonwealth
appeared to have reached pre-depression
level, and that some of the prosperity
was due to excessive Government bor-
rowing, the interest on which had to be
met by extra taxation. If Governments
instead aimed at reducing taxes, private
businesses would be able to employ
more labor and relieve, unemployment.
This is endorsement of a frequently
iterated Bulletin contention.
* * * *
Questions regarding the gold bounty
continue to crop up, and Senator Mc-
Lachlan has told interested parties that
it is not likely to be revived, nor the
Federal assistance to mining prospecting
and development continued. The bounty
was to be in force for 10 years from
Jan. 1, 1931. Actually, £1 an ounce was
paid on gold produced in excess of
451,4320 z. p.a. during the first six
months, and 10s. an ounce for the next
half-year. Then gold started to soar in
price, and in 1932 and later years nothing
was paid. If the metal falls to £5 10s.
Aust. —quite unlikely—Canberra has
agreed to resume paying.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, has been a stock
consistently advocated here for invest-
ment purposes. The impressive capabili-
ties and actual production of the New-
castle steelworks have been remarked
upon, and attention was drawn some time
ago to the £1,500,000 or so invested in
non-div.-paying affiliates, which, how-
ever, have sound future possibilities. Pro-
duction of pig-iron at Newcastle for the
first four months of the present term
was up 34.5 p.c. on the same period of
last year, and ingot steel output was
10.3 p.c. higher. In 1935-36 24.4 p.c.
was earned on average capital—almost
as much was visibly carried to reserves
as was paid in dividends (12y p.c.). Last
week the £1 shares were carried rapidly
to 88s., giving an immediate yield of
2.8 p.c. As a key industry, depending a
great deal upon construction activity,
B.H.P.’s business must be susceptible to
changes in economic conditions. But the
co. is at present manufacturing for a
larger market than ever, and while Aus-
tralia is Australia it will need steel
and it's by-products. The market price
now takes some gilt off the investment,
but the fact remains that it is a great
stock.
* * * *
Kandos Cement 16s. shares came up
again to 225. 6d., and Australian
Cement’s £1 issue to 30s. 6d., making
the N. S. Wales co. the better buying by
about 2s. 6d. in the £l. The market is
jazzing to the tune played from Canberra
about the cement duties. The matter
has been referred back to the Tariff
Board, and it is to be hoped that body
will take into account the luscious divi-
dends paid by English cement cos. Atten-
tion was first drawn to the 20 p.c. divs.
of Associated Portland Cement and other
overseas cos. in The Bulletin.
* * * *
Copper remained buoyant last week,
rising to £49 sterling for electrolytic,
a record price for recent years. It
means a highly-profitable return to Mt.
Lyell, and that co.’s shares shot up to
over 365. If last week’s quotations
for the metal remain steady 365. is quite
justified. Lyell has over 10 years’ supply
of 2 p.c. ore in sight at present; and
further bodies are being developed.
Nearly everything depends on the future
course of the metal in the world’s
markets. The co. cannot mine and treat
all its ore for disposal this week or next
week. Returns must necessarily be spread
over a long period.
* * * *
Howard Smith ordinaries sold at the
best price for years last week. The co.
holds around 200,000 shares in B.H.P.
and has substantial interests in Cale-
donian Collieries. The' marked rise in
the first and the revived market interest
in the second last week were principally
responsible for the special attention
directed to Howard Smith.
* * * *
A bill prohibiting lot-splitting at wool
and other auctions passed through the
Vic. Legislative Assembly last Thursday.
The idea is to increase bidding competi-
tion ; McDonald, U.A.P. member for
Polwarth, has misgivings, suggesting that
the wool now sent to Victorian sale-
rooms (about 38 p.c. of their turnover)
from the Riverina and South Aus. may
be diverted to Sydney and Adelaide.
Other States are to be given an oppor-
tunity to pass similar legislation before
the section affecting wool will be pro-
claimed.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
It was reported that mortgage interest rates
acceptable to life-assurance cos. had lifted from
a minimum of 44 p.c. to 5 p.c. A much in-
creased volume of business is being done toi-
lowing the revived building activity.
The 31 p.c. 1951 issue of Consols (put out
last June) sold at £9B 12s. 6d. That includes
interest payable on Nov. 15. Including re-
demption the return was around £3 19s. sd. per
cent., as against £3 17s. 6d. per cent, when
issued.
Yarra Falls shares sold to 425. Howard
Smith ords. went to 225. 6d., then eased to
21s. 3d. Melbourne Steam ords. were on
offer for a short period at 275., but buyers
quickly saw the opportunity, and quotations
firmed.
The chairman of Drug Houses of Aus-
tralia said the proposed establishment ot a
company pharmacy by an overseas concern was
being closely watched.


ORIENT
LINE
e
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
v/
A Tasmanian port, either Hobart or Burnie, is being included in
the routes taken by the big Orient Liners sailing in Australian
waters both outward and homeward during Tasmania's
forthcoming Tourist Season. There are frequent sailings from
all Australian mainland states and back. Ask for folder,
Tasmania for Holidays." Full details, on application, of
EASTER CRUISE TO TASMANIA BY R.M.S. "OTRANTO."
CHRISTMAS AND SUMMER CRUISES TO NEW ZEALAND
From "Orford" Xmas Cruise f
Fremantle Dec. 8-Jan. 11—from 26 gns.
Adelaide Dec. 12-Jan. 7—from 20 gns.
Melbourne Dec. 14-Jan. 4 —from 18 gns.
Sydney Dec. 17-Dec. 30—from 13 gns.
Brisbane Dec. 20-Dec. 30—from 15 gns.*
"Oronsay" Summer Cruise $
Jan. 19-Feb. 22— from 25 gns.
t First Saloon and tourist Class. \ First Saloon and Tourist "B" Class.
Includes steamer or rail fare from Sydney back to Brisbane after the cruise
ORIENT
STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated
in England
The two leading Barrier stocks —
Norths and Souths—continue their merry
climb. Norths went to over £l2 last
week, and Souths to £7 6s. —rises of 50s.
and 30s. respectively in the past two
months. Lead and spelter certainly are
strong in price, but the. proposed sub-
division of both cos.’ shares into ss.
denominations has a good deal to answer
for in regard to the soaring quotations.
On present basis the North mine, plus
investments and other trimmings, is
valued at £8,400,000, the South at
£5,800,000. At the rate of last year’s
distribution (which should be increased
this term in both cases) it would take
13 years for North shareholders to see
their capital returned, 11 years for
South’s shareholders. Speculators should
beware of present buoyancy for the scrip.
Long-term holders can sit tight and see
market reactions through, but the
“carried” client is usually at the mercy
of his sharebroker. The metals are
bound to fluctuate, and the scrip can’t
be bought on one day’s price, even
assuming that it may go still higher. If
there is any sharp disappointment wait-
ing in the near future, the premium
looked for following scrip subdivision
may go by the board. Market psy-
chology is a tricky thing.
* * * *
Commonwealth gold production for
the nine months to September 30 totalled
828,000 ounces. If the average rate of
output is maintained up to December 31,
over 1,100,000 ounces will be the golden
harvest for the year, worth nearly
£10,000,000 in our currency. Gold is the.
most readily-saleable of our products,
and most of the newly-mined metal is
exported. Thu.s it follows wool and
wheat among our most valuable exports,
an d is a big factor in our London credit
position. Westralia is still the greatest
potential field for development, and
figures for 1937 should show a substantial
advance. Victoria, too, is coming more
into the picture.
* # * i!<
Lake View and Star’s net profit for
the year to lune 30 last was a record at
£478,414 sterling, compared with £380,934
in the previous term, when there was a
miners’ strike.
* * * *
The unfavorable balance of overseas
trade for the. three months to Sept. 30,
taking increased gold exports and higher
prices for wheat and base metals all in,
was £3,119,000 sterling, compared with
£2,370,000 for the same period of last
year. Imports were up £2,833,000 sterling
and that is the milk in the coconut.
* * * *
Japan’s wool purchases during the
first quarter of 1936-37 were valued at
£17,896, compared with £1,712,632 in the
corresponding part of 1935-36—a drop
of 99 p.c.
* * * *
Continuous price-cutting is blamed by
United Provisions’ chairman for the
poorer showing last term. The bacon
trade is weakly organised, and stability
in prices doesn’t exist. Ham-curing is
extremely profitable when conditions are
favorable, but they haven’t been kind
for several years now. U.P.’s Maoriland
business is making best showing at
present.
* * * *
Castlemaine Perkins shares rose
smartly to around 265. last week. This
Brisbane brewery has been far and away
the most progressive in Queensland over
the past decade, and, by the acquisition
of a long string of hotel properties, has
tied a big bar trade to itself. Capital
bounced up from £187,500 in 1926 to
£1,041,666 at last balance day, yet earn-
ings claimed for the term to July, 1936,
were equal to 10.8 p.c. on average capi-
tal, after transferring £2500 to a staff
fund. On the full total of the share-
register (£260,416 came in late in the
year) 8.7 p.c. was shown, so that the 8
p.c. distribution is assured, and when
earning power catches up the distribu-
tion may be increased. An attractive 4
p.c. is the present yield.
* * * *
“Groper”: In Perth stores I can buy
excellent farm butter at Is. per pound.
Yet my milk-oh wants to charge me six-
pence for a quarter-pound carton of
cream —2s. per pound. Butter is made
from cream, and one pound of cream
won’t make one pound of butter, yet
the raw material sells just 100 p.c.
dearer than the finished article! Perth
has a Milk Board, as have Sydney and
Melbourne.
*** • *
Aspros, the patent medicine originally
marketed by the Nicholases in Australia,
have gone over in a big way in England'
where a separate co. was floated a couple
of years ago. A 25 p.c. div. has been
declared to ord. shareholders, and large
sums go to reserves.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Not Wanted
There are two rifle clubs on Kangaroo
Island (S.A.), and somebody conceived
the idea of forming a platoon of the 10th
Battalion here, with one of the original
Tenth’s officers, Major H. W. H. Seager,
in command. Practically every eligible
man gave in his name. But word has
been received that no more units
are to be formed, so this promising
material is to be left untrained. The
folly of it! — Fodgie (S.A.).
Supplying Arms to the Enemy
Opponents of the referendum who
may find themselves short of ammuni-
tion are advised to go to N.S.W. Premier
Stevens, who returned from England with
a bandolier stuffed to bursting point. The
joke is that he intends it for the other
side.
Stevens is leading the U.A.P. party in
support of the referendum and supply-
ing it with arguments which mean
damnation to itself and its cause.
He says he found England in a highly
prosperous condition. Employment had
been stimulated and the standard of liv-
ing consequently raised. And all through
the agency of cheaper food, provided
partly at the expense of the Australian
taxpayer.
Let us whoop for more of that, says
Mr. Stevens. To provide more of it is
the object of the referendum, which de-
liberately proposes to raise food prices
in Australia for the purpose of further
lowering them in England, thus, accord-
ing to Stevens, raising the standard of
living there by proportionately depress-
ing it here. What price that for an elec-
tion cry in a constituency with a large
section of voters already on the bread-
line?—W.W. (N.S.W.).
An Australian Uncle Movement
Big Brothers are anxious to recom-
mence their scheme for boy migrants.
But why wait for migration to start
again ; why not start with our own lads?
Despite the growls of farmers that Aus-
tralian boys prefer the cities to the farms,
if our boys were given the same oppor-
tunities as offered to the Little Brothers
hundreds of them would soon grasp the
chance. But when an Australian boy
takes a position on a farm there are no
Big Brothers to see that the conditions of
his employment are satisfactory, that he
is adequately paid and taught his job.
There is no one to see that if he is dis-
satisfied a more suitable environment is
found for him. 'So high-spirited boys
kick against the pricks, and drift back to
the cities. An Australian Uncle Move-
ment for Australian boys would fill the
bill admirably.— Country Ped. (Vic.).
Toe H
Toe H, from a small beginning, has
become a world-wide movement. It is
doing much to meet the human problems
associated with unemployment. In Africa
and India its members are engaged in
campaigns against leprosy.
There are now 1435 Toe H units, of
which Australia has 143, the member-
ship being 2100. N. S. Wales has only 19
units, Queensland but four. Surely these
States can do better.
Most of the members are young men
drawn from all classes. They are doing
all they can to keep the existing organi-
sation functioning, but it' is beyond their
power to lay an adequate financial foun-
dation. Toe His now inviting public-
spirited people to lend their aid. If
that is forthcoming Toe H will be in a
position to help in grappling with some
of the larger problems which beset our
community life.
Toe H was founded by a Queenslander,
the Rev. “Tubby” Clayton. It is strange
that Queensland should have only four
units while Westralia has 43.— Member
(N.S.W.).
Unduly Strained
Private lenders of money usually take
special care on the score of security.
Thus those who lend on mortgage con-
sider not only the apparent physi-
cal value of property, but also its earn-
ing power, present and future. Money-
lent to the Commonwealth has as secu-
rity the tax-paying capacity of the people.
That capacity has been unduly strained.
Commonwealth income tax has been a
development since 1914. On top of that
we pay “special” taxes in every State and
to the Commonwealth. New avenues
of taxation and means of suppressing
competition with Government enterprises
are continually searched for; meanwhile
growth in population is so small that it
all becomes an increasing burden on the
individual.
That we have scraped through the
last 10 years with nothing worse than
30 p.c. trade-union unemployment at one
stage, reduction of interest by 4s. 6d. in
the £, depreciation of our currency by
20 p.c., moratoriums, the closing of one
of the world’s largest savings banks, and
a couple of years of crazy government in
N. S. Wales doesn’t mean that we can
get off as lightly next time. —K. D.
(N.S.W.).


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“White Death”
A very well-photographed exposition
of the Zane Grey method of hunting
sharks and other giant fish. Setting is
the Great Barrier Reef, and the principal
character is Mr. Grey in person. He is
not camera-conscious, and his remarks
are terse and to the point. Alfred Frith
the comedian, a few abos. and some
other negligible characters are brought
in to give body to a yarn about a great
white shark much feared by the abos.
Years before the story starts the big fish
gobbled up a missionary’s children and
the missionary went crazy. Still crazy, he
goes out alone in a boat to fight with
the monster and plunges to Davy Jones’s
locker. Then along comes Mr. Z. Grey,
and after an all-night tussle brings the
big shark to land. There’s an exciting
moment when the rod snaps and has to
be replaced with another, but the film
generally, outside authentic glimpses of
big-fish-hasing, is amateurish. At Syd-
ney Mayfair.
“The Scarlet Circle”
A typical Edgar Wallace thriller with
lashings of murders and spies and coun-
ter-spies all over the shop. At last the
whole of the Scarlet Circle gang is
rounded up on a ship in Dockland, and
the identity of the Master Mind is dis-
closed. Better cast than the average
English talkie and snappily developed.
Leading role fits Hugh Wakefield like a
glove. At Sydney Mayfair.
“End of the Trail”
Based on a Zane Grey novel, a guaran-
tee that virtue, will be triumphant, that
sin will be suitably penalised, and that
every character and every situation will
Tullio Carminati in “The Three
Maxims.”
be of a sort that has proved itself palat-
able to the taste of the great reading
public on at least a thousand previous
occasions. Opens with the “Remember
the Maine” campaign in Cuba, where a
joke-loving ranch foreman (Jack Holt),
one of Roosevelt’s Roughriders, rescues a
pal under fire and loses an eye while
doing so. Home again, the pal becomes
sheriff, but the one-eyed hero, under
unjust suspicion of horse-thievery, is
denied employment. So he takes to col-
lecting other people’s nags in real earnest,
and his bank account soon begins to
look as prosperous as that of a best-
selling novelist. A high-minded goil
(Louise Henry) implores the robber to
mend his ways, but he refuses. Goil’s
brother, in robber’s employ, is murdered,
to avenge which Mr. Holt buckles on
two forty-fives and fills a co-villain
(Douglass Dumbrille) with their contents.
Whereupon sheriff arrests the one-orbed
robber, who goes to .the gallows, leaving
the goil free to marry the sheriff. A
warning to all hoss-thieves. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Grand Jury”
An influential, elderly citizen (Fred
Stone), disgusted at the Grand Jury’s
verdict of “No indictment” on a gangster
suspected of having murdered the son of
the e.c.’s friend, decides to try his hand
at bagging the villain. He has the assist-
ance of his granddaughter’s fiance, a
cub reporter on one of those funny
newspapers whose frenzied editors are
always bawling to mysterious function-
aries to kill the front-page story about
the twin calves born at Little Bend (Pa.)
and hold the space for the Great Crime
Revelation. After much circumlocution
the old gentleman gets to the gangsters’
lair and obtains evidence of their many
nefarious activities, only to be captured
by them, along with the young reporter,
who goes to his rescue. They are saved
by the despised Force from being put on
the spot by the beetle-browed malefac-
tors, who are now indicted by a Grand
Jury without any hitch whatever.
Fred Stone, a faint echo of Will
Rogers, works hard to achieve moderate
success. Owen Davis, jun., is pleasant if
rather lifeless, and Louise Latimer does
her small job well. Guinn Williams
makes a fierce-looking killer, and Moroni
Olsen adds a little humor in a “shadow-
ing” role. Nothing brilliant about the
film, but mildly entertaining. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Shakedown”
Melodrama, peopled by: (a) indulgent,
wealthy father; (b) spoiled daughter
(Joan Perry); (c) virtuous young man
(Lew Ayres) who nobly scorns his future
pa-in-law’s offer of 250 dahlars a week
because he doesn’t think he’s worth it,
preferring to kick off as a messenger boy ;
(d) furtive-eyed young man (Henry Mol-
lison) who engineers a fake kidnapping
which turns out to be the real thing ; (e)
live-wire reporter who orders cops about
as if he were Mussolini and they were
mud. Virtue is triumphant, villainy is un-
masked and cops are confounded by the
brilliant detective work of the messenger
boy, who clasps the beauteous maiden to
his manly breast as a signal that the fan-
tasia has run its course, the mystery of
its title unsolved.
Lew Ayres isn’t overstrong on the
heroic stuff, and Joan Perry has only one
or two lucid moments between sob
paroxysms. Thurston Hall plays with
his wonted ease, and Henry Mollison
passes muster as a chinless roulette
addict. At Sydney Civic.
“They Met in a Taxi”
Farce-comedy cleverly mixed with
something new in sleuthing.
Jimmy (Chester Morris), a taxi-driver
whose regular customer is a social editor
(Raymond Walburn), drops his fare at
the home of a fashionable bride-to-be,
whereupon a girl in a . wedding dress
dashes out, gets into the cab and off they
go. She turns out to be the mannequin
who had been demonstrating the finery.
From that start develop much comedy
and excitement, which centre in a stolen
string of pearls and the efforts of Jimmy,
the social editor, the suspected girl (Fay
Wray) and “Fingers” (Lionel Stander),
Jimmy’s offsider, to recover the. pearls
and clear the girl, who meanwhile hides
out at James’s place.
Chester Morris overdoes the bad-
tempered stuff ; one fleeting grin is all he
emits throughout the production. Fay
Wray gives a first-rate performance ; but
Leslie Banks in “The Three Maxims,” at
Sydney Embassy.
the pick of the bunch is Raymond Wal-
burn, who manages as neat a bit of
characterisation as could be wished. At
Sydney Plaza.
“Stage Struck”
The plot of this snappy backstage
effort is one long rubbed tnreadbare, but
it has been handled freshly and is inter-
preted with verve. Comedy is strong,,
and there are some good singing and
satirical fooling.
A near-broke producer (Warren Wil-
liam) has a new musicomedy, financed by
a temperamental playgirl (Joan Blondell)
who thinks she can act. Price of back-
ing is lead in the show. There is, of
course, a sweet girl from the Middle West
(Jeanne Madden) who has talent and a
mushy eye for the hard-boiled dancing
director (Dick Powell), who gradually
softens and gives goilie her big chance.
Trouble with the jealous backer is
overcome by a psychoanalytical stunt
worked on her by the harassed producer.
When she also gets goofy on the ballet-
trainer, the fun starts.
Powell puts plenty of pep into shak-
ing a chorus into shape and being diplo-
matic with the two girls. He sings (not
croons) one song and generally acquits
himself well. Joan Blondell mixes nasty
fierceness and lovelorn languor. Eighteen-
year-old Jeanne Madden makes a suc-
cessful screen debut; she has an easy
stage presence, looks and a voice of
promise. Frank McHugh gets some good
laughs and Warren William enjoys the
most suitable role he’s had for some
time. At Sydney Plaza.
“Sing, Baby, Sing”
A gag-and-giggle musical extravaganza
designed to make the most blase film-
goer sit up, take notice and laugh for 90
minutes. It is one of the maddest, merri-
est bits of well-sustained nonsense that
Hollywood has ever achieved. Witty
wisecracks fizz off at a fast rate, and odd
scraps of clever comedy bob up at un-
expected times.
It opens on a note of pure burlesque.
The three Ritz brothers, making their
screen bow, give an uproarious grand
operatic version of that monstrosity “The
Music Goes Round.” Later, one of them
does a screaming imitation of Fredric
March as Dr. Jekyll becoming Mr. Hyde.
Well-constructed sideplay has been
grafted to the slightest of plots, which is
that of a female radio crooner (Alice
Faye), out of a job, who gets in tow with
a bibulous movie star (Adolphe Menjou)
on a vacation. A mild scandal is worked
up by a tabloid sensation-hound (Michael
Whalen), with a sympathy showdown at
the last which lands the lady a contract,
puts her comic theatrical agent (Gregory
RatofT) in the champagne-and-caviare
class, and brings smiles all round.
Menjou as a romantic, alcoholic ham-
fat has never been seen to better advan-
tage. He is still the gay lover, but a comic
one. Alice Faye’s husky crooning is at
times hard on the. ear, but she makes
up for that by being easy on the eye.
Gregory Ratoff tortures English amus-
ingly, and Patsy Kelly and Ted Healy as
his secretary and stooge respectively add
to the hilarity. Michael Whalen fits in
neatly as the press gent. The Ritz
brothers’ dancing burlesques are unique.
Previewed at Fox theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
“The Yeomen of the Guard” has
been on the stage of Sydney’s one pro-
fessional theatre so often in recent years
that one has grown to expect to see the
Tower of London every time the curtain
goes up there. On Saturday night the
operetta was brought on once again and
received with all the delight and enthusi-
asm that would have greeted a similar
performance in the Sydney of the
’eighties, which may be owing either to
Gilsullivanism’s imperishable charm or to
the fact that the Savoy operas are the
least objectionable of the steady stream
of revivals which now constitute 90 p.c.
of the city’s excuse for theatregoing.
However it was, the well-known words
and airs, recited in the usual way, mostly
by the usual people, pleased the audi-
ence. It was as well that the words are
well known, for with the exception of
Jack Point the singers were not strong
John Loder in “Ourselves Alone,” at
Sydney Embassy.
on enunciation. Ivan Menzies as the
comic-tragic jester was the backbone of
the show. If he had just a little more of
a voice he would be the leading man
Gilbert and Sullivan saw and heard in
dreams. Godfrey Stirling’s Colonel Fair-
fax passed muster, but his voice, too,


A MODERN
NEWS-MAGAZINE.
wm
\ssm
muMuuKmaem
i
The “NEWS REVIEW’ is one of the most
unique publications in Australia. Brisk, in-
formative, and topical, it brings you every
fortnight the news behind the news of
Australian and overseas happenings.
On sale at all Sydney bookstalls and news-
agents, price threepence a copy; mailed to
you direct, 7/6 per annum.
“THE AUSTRALIAN NEWS REVIEW,”
O’Brien House, 56 Young Street, Sydnev.
The Greeks
m
he
r
SILOS
wcnsiLflcc
Modern Australian farmers point with
pride and satisfaction to their silos—and
vigorously debate the merits of different
kinds of ensilage.
But silos are no new thing. The Greeks,
the Persians, the Hebrews and the
Romans knew about them .... and used
them extensively many centuries ago.
Fodder conservation is a sound farming
praClice consistently encouraged by the
Rural Bank,* which is always ready to
consider applications for advances for
this and other useful purposes.
* In matters of personal
finance, too, it is well to
have something put away
against “poor seasons”. The
Rural Bank accepts interest-
bearing Fixed Deposits at
all branches. Cheque
accounts are also opened.
Jk
RURAL
BANK
NSW
X<
SERVING THE STATE
Commissioners : C. R. McKERIHAN ( President), li. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
PUJMBAIOR-’GUARD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for tin., tin, and tin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
I 7-day sets (7 razors in
' oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in cwo
widths. Sir?, and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
rears free ol charge.
is undistinguished. Winifred Lawson was
a winsome Elsie, and the Dame Car-
ruthers of Evelyn Hall would have had
more to sing if Sullivan had scored for
this co. exclusively.
•J* 4*
It might be argued that an opera which
is only heard once in a half-century must
lack some vital spark. At any rate, that
is true enough of Smetana’s “The Bar-
tered Bride,” presented by the Con.
Opera School at Sydney Con. hall on
Saturday night. The work has excel-
lent orchestration, an attractive over-
ture and a gay plot, but contains no
aria melodious enough to send an audi-
ence away trying to whistle it.
The band, under Florent Hoogstoel’s
baton, performed splendidly, and the
singing, generally speaking, was good.
Main weakness, as is usual on these
occasions, was the acting. Sybil
Phillipps as the bride used with fine
judgment a nice, easily produced soprano
of good range and clear enunciation.
Ernest' Gibb sang the leading tenor role
with spirit; he was pleasing in the
middle register, but his head notes lacked
polish. John O’Reilly as the simpleton
Vasek gave a good performance, his
sense of comedy being strong and his
tenor of good quality. William Mason
as the marriage broker Ketsal rendered
his chief solo “I Tell You She’s Pretty”
with plenty of verve and volume. Others
in the cast were Ron Williams (basso),
Alfred Urquhart (baritone), J. L. Lloyd
(tenor) and Ena Preston, Betty Pocock
and Beryl Ford.
Guenda Bainton was responsible for
some convincing scenic effects, and
Evelyn Parrott arranged the attractive
ballets. Hilda Mulligan produced.
•i- *l*
Of the three ballets performed by De
Basil’s Monte Carlo co. at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, on Saturday, the second,
“Les Presages,” was by far the most suc-
cessful. Created by Massine to the music
of Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony, this
ballet caused hot argument when it was
produced for the first time by De Basil
at the Alhambra in 1933, the musical
diehards being scandalised at the use of
a symphony for dancing.
As in London seasons, Saturday’s audi-
ence caught the fire of the dancers and
found its emotions mounting higher
and higher through this symbolical piece,
which pictures Man’s life, progressing
with joys and temptations, love and pas-
sion, a scene of frivolity, the coming of
war, women holding back their men but
then weakening to the dazzle of martial
honors, and as a grand finale a tableau
of the hero triumphant. In Part I as
the Lovers, in Part IV as Passion and
the Hero, Kirsova and Igor Yousskevitch
danced a dramatic declamation with
effortless artistry, the male dancer
cleverly subordinating himself to the bal-
lerina’s coloratura exploitation. Tamara
Tchinarova as Action showed good con-
trol and notable virtuosity in changing
from graceful swirling poses to the stiff,
jerky movements which are the modern-
isms of the piece. Leon Woizikowskv
was impressive as an acrobatic, rigid-
limbed Fate, and his daughter Sonia
Woizikowska (these Russians import
gender into surnames) pirouetted beauti-
fully as Frivolity. Several characters in
minor roles and members of the corps
de ballet danced magnificently. Most of
them are young, and thus they get the
feel of this modern dancing more easily
than they could that of the two pre-
war ballets on the same programme.
The first number, “Carnaval”—Schu-
mann’s music, Fokine’s choreography—
opened slowly. The dancers were not
really inspired, and the orchestra under
Clayton’s baton was only fair. Harle-
quin’s leaps and clean entrechats as per-
formed by Roland Guerard were admir-
able. He got still more scope half-way
through the piece when Columbine
(Blinova) made her entrance. The pair
blended dancing, miming and flirting
with diverting vivacity.
The final number, “La Boutique
Fantasque”—Massine’s choreography—
is written around pieces which Rossini
composed in his late years for the en-
tertainment of his friends. As there are
in this “Fantastic Toyshop” over 40
characters, opportunities for individual-
ity are given to most members of the,
company. The quaint story is of a toy-
shop of 1865, which is visited by tourists
and townspeople. Jean Hoyer, the pro-
prietor, and his assistant (Serge. Unger)
sell the toy cancan dancers (Kir-
sova and Leon Woizikowsky). Dur-
ing the night all the dolls dance and
the “purchases” escape. In the morning
the buyers, angry at the empty
attack the shopkeepers, who are getting
the worst of things when the dolls come
to life, and interfere on their behalf.
Two small character parts of a Russian
merchant and his wife were performed
particularly neatly by M. Winter and H.
Antonova.
*!* 4* 4* 4*
Melbourne Garrick went Russian on
Saturday night, when Doha Ribush’s
players presented Maxim Gorki’s “Lower
Depths.” With less skilful production
the Gorki gloom might' have been over-
powering, but Ribush’s methods and the
sincerity of the acting made the play a
highlight of Melbourne’s am. dram,
season. When Ribush came from Russia
11 years ago, he brought with him
Moscow Art Theatre experience, and for
1\ months he kept his players on this
stark Gorki creation, which conveys an
impression of shaggy Tsarist Russia at
its slummiest, William Phillips, as the
old wanderer Luka on whose philosophy
the tale twists, presented a consistently
good and creaky grandpa for ever drop-
ping words of kindness and hope. The
other players matched him for finished
character acting, the only opportunity
for fault-finding being the tendency of
some to bawl too loudly for the theatre.
Irene Mitchell, Robert Bennett, Nancy
Finn, Wilfred Spargo, William Curtis,
Leila Pirani, Norma Wilkinson, Margaret
Turner, Frank Jenkin, Arthur Phillips,
Noel Larkins, M. Seymour-Taylor, Rod
Douglas, John Martin, Eric Reamer and
Ted Hall all did their bit. Additional
reality was lent by the scenery and cos-
tumes of M. Schechter and Kath and
Florence Martin. But one Gorki a year
is plenty.
4* *l* 'l* *l*
Perth Repertory Club’s performance
of four one-act plays provided striking
contrasts in both era and atmosphere.
“The Old Allegiance,” by J. C. Turner,
of Pingelly, showed the wavering line
between professed following of Crom-
well and ingrained loyalty to Charles,
with Tom Tracy giving an admirable
portrayal of a royalist innkeeper. The
blank verse of Gordon Bottomley’s
“Gruach” transferred the audience to an
earlier period, where Joy Ruse, Mrs.
H. E. Braine and Gerald Ruse were
happily at home. “Love Song” was the
modern day offering (Mrs. Karl Knapp's
playing was a nighlight), and “Amazons
on Broadway” was a prophetic girl-
gangster show with Edna Smily as the
Big Shot.
Current Artbursts
Treania Smith, whose paintings occupy
the walls of the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, presents very broad impressions
and values fidelity to her canons of
observation above graceful form and
pleasing color. Like many others of her
school she produces not pictures but a
compression of the myriad forms and
colors in Nature into a few more-or-less-
standardised symbols. In such canvases
as “Road in the Suburbs” and “Street and
Mountain, Hobart,” the spirit of the
scene is expressed in a soberly convincing
fashion.
* 4*
The latest show at S.A. Society of Arts
gallery is an unusual one. When James
Ferries began years ago with mythologi-
cal groups he was hampered by lack of
anatomical knowledge, but showed a
pluck denied to the general run of
young painters, who shy away from any
composition requiring more than one
figure. A visit to Europe brought him
back with a heavy brown coloring, remi-
niscent of English artists of a century
ago. Since then he has tackled anything
from Centralian scenery to flower-pieces
or to horses ploughing in the Heysen
manner. Yet always one can look,
whether at a figure or a building or a
waratah or a rock, and say confidently
“This is a Ferries.” Adelaide Art Gal-
lery has bought from the present show
a sound s{udy of sheep under gum-trees
in a heavy frost.
* * * *
Hans Heysen is holding an exhibition
of his water-colors at the Victorian
Artists’ Galleries, Melbourne. Of the
30 pictures many show Heysen’s well-
loved gum-trees, some, with curly
branches and gnarled trunks, others slim
saplings with bark like white satin. A
few pictures depict the arid reddish cliffs
up towards the centre of Australia, and
as a contrast to this glare and heat which
Heysen handles so cleverly is a charm-
ing piece of old England, a cluster of
cottages “In the Cotswolds.”


The Richanisou Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
>9 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
SINCE
1834
P E TTYS Hotel
102 years of service and progress—Petty's Hotel. To-day Petty's is still
favoured—for its air of comfort, and its position; quiet, yet convenient
to all business and social centres. New features include new private
lounge and private dining room, hot and cold water, etc.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(3) E. yOUNGS, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Even in the midst of her sorrow Lady
Murray Anderson thinks of others. It
was at her special request that the Mili-
tary Ball which was to have been a wel-
come to the late Governor took place on
the set date. Last Thursday night, heat-
wave and all, Major-General Rosenthal
and his officers of the Second Division ot
the A.M.F. poured with wives and friends
into David Jones’s ballroom. This had
a lush blooming of flags —Union Jacks
and Australia’s emblems from the audi-
torium to the dais, where the R.A.A.
band sat. There were only three debs.,
but they were heralded with a most im-
pressive fanfare of trumpets. They were
presented to the General and his lady by
Mrs. Allen, who had white and red pop-
pies as a relief to her long black crepes.
The General’s wife carried red roses. Her
frock was of filmy black lace.
Mayoress Parkes enjoyed this ball.
She danced blithely in a graceful twirl
of white chiffons whose crystal embroid-
eries suggested raindrops to the parched
mind. Town Clerk Roy Hendy was there
with Mrs. Hendy, whose lace frock was
black. Black was the hue worn by most
of the women in the official group.
Colonel A. C. S. Holland’s wife, who is
very fair, wore beige lace over palest
pink. The square neckline finished with
a tiny frilling. Mrs. Gordon Bennett’s
black chiffons had jaunty white ruffles.
Colonel and Mrs. E. O. Milne (he was
president of the ball committee), Group-
Commander Cole and Mrs. Cole of the
Air Force at Richmond, the Major
Secombes, the Captain Scott couple,
and Colonel Lorenzo and his wife all
enjoyed the fun. Mrs. R. T. A.
McDonald’s pink organza swung a fuli
skirt. Like a carnation bud in her
pink moire, Joan Gordon Bennett enter
tained some young friends.
Thursday’s heat didn’t wilt the energy
of the C.W.A. metropolitan group. The
members met in conference at the
Women’s Club, and attacked the 21 reso-
lutions on the agenda. The group, not
quite 10 years old, has raised almost
£15,000. Even if it had done nothing
other than keep open the doors of Keera
House, Collaroy, it could feel proud,
One listener could have shouted applause
when the report told of holidays spent
there last year by 425 outback women
and children.
Mrs. Matt Sawyer, the C.W.A. State
president, opened the conference. Mrs.
Arthur James was re-elected to the presi
dency of the metropolitan group. Mrs.
E. J. Munro is now secretary, and Mrs.
C. D’Arcy treasurer. Vice-presidents are
the A. J. Malcolmson, W. B. Studdy,
Colin Venn and F. G. Fanning ladies.
Mrs. H. Sterne, of Warwick (Q.), State
treasurer of the Queensland C.W.A.,
stepped off the Orontes from a world tour
into the conference. An interesting ex-
perience for her was the conference in
Washington (U.S.A.) of the Associated
Country Women of the world. Here
were gathered 7000 women of different
nationalities. At the conference in Syd-
ney, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax was a speaker.
An all-wool exhibition is planned for
April, 1937, and an even larger one for
the sesquicentenary the following year.
Joyce Beazley, her fair hair brushed
back straight and gleaming into a soft
roll on her neck, returned in the Orontes
after nearly four years at the other end
of the world. Joyce travelled from
Sydney with Miss Isabel Crowdy, was
presented at Court and has travelled
in many Continental cities. She is now
paying a five months’ visit to her people,
who live at Vaucluse, before going back
to England and matrimony. Like a good
Australian she is marrying into the wool
trade. Her young man is Neville Whit-
tingham, and their home will be near
Bradford.
Cup afternoon parties in the women's
clubs have become quite an item for
the housekeeper to reckon with. High-
brow or lowbrow, social or socialistic,
there was probably not a gathering of
the sex where the Cup broadcast wasn’t
the absorbing theme. Out at the Rose
Bay Golf Club between 500 and 600
played cards in the intervals of listening-
in. The Dalwood Health Home and
St. Margaret’s Hospital combined busi-
ness with pleasure, and energetic com-
mittees ran cabarets at the State ball-
room and the Royal Automobile Club.
Winifred Lawson and Gregory Stroud,
of the Gilbert and Sullivan co., passed
their afternoon between these two, and
pretty Nola Warren was a guest of the
Dalwood committee.
Every inch of space at the Women
Pioneers’ Club was taken up. Even in
the hall chairs were tightly packed.
“Send some fruit cup to the bookies,”
murmured president Mrs. Lingham to
secretary Carlotta Doyle. It sounded
an ineffectual quencher till you found
out that the “bookies” weren’t gentlemen
with bulging satchels, but two of the
club members looking after the radio.
In one of the de luxe maternity hos-
pitals, just-beginning mothers lay back
on their pillows listening, if close
enough, to the story of Wotan’s spec-
tacular win and the dashing Young Cru-
sader’s defeat. If not close enough to
hear, girl visitors listening on the bal-
cony carried the details to them. Even
the babes in the nursery seemed to be
an extra bit agog about something.
The newly-formed Mosman auxiliary
of the Bush Nursing Association will
benefit by the reading of Noel Coward’s
“The Astonished Heart” on the after-
noon of the 25th. Bobbie Larnach, the
girl in this Freeman photograph, will take
a leading part. She is a member of a
poetry and play-reading circle (Mrs.
Clement Chapman is its president) which
works for charity. The Hannaford home
at Clifton Gardens will be the, back-
ground for the Noel Coward play. In
March Bobbie leaves for the Coronation.
Mrs. Alec Tweedie, now on her way
to Sydney in the Strathnaver, has trekked
over many of the world’s highways and
byways. Her mileage, without this
present tour, totals over one hundred
thousand. The lady, who looks on life
with a pleasant eye and an equable and
witty mind, has placed her wanderings
on record in several books of travel, her
latest being My Legacy Cruise. In addi-
tion to writing, Mrs. Tweedie is a
painter. Some of the loveliest bits of
color in her flat in Devonshire House
are from her own brush. This flat is
something in the nature of a salon.
Here the writing, art and theatre world
of London gather. And be not deceived
if ever you get a card from the hostess
inviting you to a cup of tea and a bun.
That is just her way of saying rose-leaf
jam from Persia, exotic delicacies from
the world over, and a sprightly-looking
bar where you can get any drink from
tea to the latest variation of the cocktail.
A packed house greeted “The Yeomen
of the Guard” on Saturday. The twen-
ties were there as well as the thirties,
forties and fifties. Maybe that was be-
cause all the world loves a lover, especi-
ally an unhappy one. Gwen Munro, the
little star of “Orphan of the Wilder-
ness,” twinkled in lustrous satin that was
made princess fashion and buttoned with
pearls from the, neckline. Her long coat
was of white velvet. ' Over Esme
Lenord’s embroidered organdie flowed
a lacquer-red velvet cape, finished at the
back with a deep soft cowl. A mist-
blue moire frock of great length was an-
other bit of color in the procession to
and from the d.c. during the interval.
If you were listening-in to the A.B.C.
broadcast last Wednesday night you
heard this young composer’s pianoforte
arrangement of the, slow movement of
her second concerto. Miriam Hyde is a
South Australian girl just back from
study in Europe. At the centenary con-
cert conducted by Dr. Malcolm Sargent
in Adelaide, her “Adelaide Overture”
was a notable, work on the programme.
Latvia’s Consul Norman McLeod and
his wife gave a bright twirl to
sundown last Sunday with their sherry
and sonata party. Music was the theme
in the Vaucluse home, and Carl Budden
Morris’s fingers weaved the magic of
Schumann, Guenda Bainton supplied
Bach, and Marjorie Hambridge played
her violin. A feature of the afternoon
was the playing by Miriam Hyde of two
of her own compositions. The, hostess
wore a trailing frock of corn-yellow
crepe and a flared tunic of gaily-pat-
terned tissue. Her sweet and vivid voice
was heard in three groups of songs and
in two duets with tenor Charles Nicis.
Later Charles sang in compliment to the
Consul-General of Czechoslovakia and
his wife a group of their native songs.
This was quite an international gather-
ing. The Edmond Meyers were there,
Mrs. Meyer’s black chiffon frock having
a square neckline. Little Miss Suzor
brought a smartly-tailored grey suit and
a beige hat. Marjorie Murdoch’s blithe
twist of straw was the smartest hat in
a roomful of good millinery. Mrs. Flor-
ence Taylor gets full marks for the most
picturesque, a souffle of palely-pink straw
and uncurled ostrich feather that would
have pleased Edward VIII., who wants
to encourage the feather trade. With it
was worn a palely-pink chiffon frock
and a cape of silver fox. Sister Annis
Parsons was in navy from hat to shoes.
The Sterling Levises made an attrac-
tive family group, Joan’s face emerging
from a snowy toby frill suggesting a
newly-opened daisy. Mrs. Norman
Lowe’s bronze hat wore a drooping
brown plume. Her gold-and-black frock
was caped in mink. With her came
daughter Lulu, tall and slim in hyacinth
blue. The Consul-General for Greece
and Rev. Dr. Shehadie were among
the internationals. Linda Paul was one
of the good-looking. The hostess’s sister,
Mrs. Targett, and daughter Jocelyn
assisted in entertaining. Lute Drum-
mond helped with the accompaniments.
Norma Gadsen, equally known in
Sydney and in Melbourne, who had a
most successful debut in Wagnerian
roles in Monte Carlo last year, drops a
line from Milan, where she is studying
Italian operas. After the Monte Carlo
season she went back to Vienna for
further study, then on to Bayreuth to
get the true Wagnerian atmosphere.
While there she sang for Frau Winifred
Wagner and the director of the Berlin
Opera, and the result was an invitation
to sing at Bayreuth next season. This
gives the hall-mark to a Wagnerian, for
even the smallest roles are sung by the
most famous German singers. The
letter ends with a vivid description of
the Bayreuth performance of “Lohen-
grin.” This was done with a com-
pletely new setting and scenery and
800 new costumes. For the opening
scene there were at least 500 choristers
on the stage, and prancing horses—a
panorama of movement and color.
Marie Muller, the greatest Elsa of her
day, was perfection in looks and voice.
Norman McLeod, Consul for Latvia,
is proud of the beautifully-engrossed
document that entitles him to wear
the Commander Cross of the Order
of the Three Stars. This is a dis-
tinguished Latvian decoration, but the
document is from Balmoral, and is
signed by Edward VIII. and Sir John
Simon. It is said to be the first docu-
ment received in Sydney bearing the
reigning sovereign’s signature.
The International Club changed over
from the Blaxland Galleries in Farmer’s
to the Oak Room, which is at the other
end of the building. A last-minute
change, it was all to the good, for the
party that looked intimate in the Oak
Room would have looked as out of pro-
portion in the Galleries as the Israelites
in the wilderness. The International
lunch was in honor of Belgium’s Consul-
General and Mrs. Segaert. They have
been wandering in many countries,
mostly in Belgium, which the C.-G. later
referred to as an “oasis in Europe.”
President Aubrey Halloran sparkled
along in welcome to the returned travel-
lers, and Arthur Rickard was another
speaker. He caused a burst of amuse-
ment among his immediate neighbors
early in the meal by passing along a
solemn little book with the title “To Right
the Wrong.” When unclasped it was
found to contain an eraser. The Snow-
den lady, cool-looking in black organza,
helped to marshal the guests. Mrs. Nor-
man McLeod, who came with her Consul,
takes first prize for millinery. Her hat
was of black velvet stabbed by a glitter-
ing ornament. Mrs. Moreing talked to
Patrick Bellew. Dolly Hollander-Moore’s
small straw hat wore a posy of field
flowers. Dr. Garnet Halloran and his
wife were there. Lute Drummond wore
a white hat with her gaily-printed crepes.
Mrs. Florence Taylor, in flowing black
and white, came with sister Miss A. Par-
sons. Mrs. Edmond Meyer was with the
McLeods at the official board.
Beryl Rouch, her head twirling merrily
after her recent orgy of economics,
stepped off the Changte. Beryl is assis-
tant to the economic adviser of the Bank
of N. S. Wales in Sydney, and she spent
12 of her 21 months abroad studying
economics at Cambridge. On her way
home she went as Australian delegate to
the Institute of Pacific Relations Con-
ference. at Yosemite Valley (U.S.A.). She
is a graduate of Melbourne Uni.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite came
back from Paris last week with a crown
worked in gold on a red velvet cap. Both
color and crown, she tells, are due to the
Coronation influence on clothes. Royal
blue is another front-ranker. For the
days when the sun burns not so fiercely
hats must be brimless and must soar;
many of the smartest autumn hats are
nothing but a huge bow and a rising
inflection. She says the latest thing is to
exercise your eyebrows till you get the
uplift in them, too. Capes of white
crochet sound ideal for the theatre on
such nights as last week’s heat-wave
brought, There are crepes for evening
wear that suggest a modernistic jag till
you are close enough to see the pattern
only emulates the old-fashioned patch-
work quilt.
With the shorter skirts the black velvet
suit with the circular skirts and the
figure-moulded jackets are already flaunt-
ing in overseas autumns. Indeed, black
velvet seems to have captured the imag-
ination of the dress-designer. As against
this, color combinations fascinate with
the unexpected, as the wedding of bur-
gundy red and pale blue, or a purple
pansy moire coat worn over a frock ot
pale-blue velvet. More in keeping with
the temperature to our hand are the little
suits in black-and-white crepe. A slim
black skirt topped by a fitting white crepe
jacket that has amusing black revers em-
broidered with a Cupid busy shooting
arrows is among the returned one’s
wardrobe. So are a pair of elephant-skin
gloves and a couple of frocks with belt-
less waistlines.


è
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them-
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A CORN SILK does not trifle with corns but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable vour
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdms, Ltd., Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE -----3 d.
On Sale Every Friday.
Enjoy your trip
Mothersills
SIAIICK ttEMSOY
akes"oeck Activities" Enjoyable
And Tea a Welcome Event f
Melbourne
Chatter
It seems as if the garden-party frock
has had its day. At the races, although
the weather was perfect on two occa-
sions, trailing draperies were rarer than
were favorites first past the post. Even
those who usually come out in the glory
of untrammelled self-expression for the
Cup were inconspicuous in a field of
sensible suits and frocks which depend
for their charm on the beauty of material
or the cleverness of accessories.
Hats were allowed every latitude. It’s
a far cry to the time when a hat was a
thing to keep the sun off, a necessary
appointment consisting fundamentally of
brim and crown. Its anatomy has
changed as much as its physiology. The
“bony structure” is malleable, and its
functions are no longer plainly useful,
but provocative, with stress placed on
originality.
A vivacious Sydney visitor to the Oaks
was Madame Shuurman, wife of the
Consul-General for the Netherlands. A
diminutive figure, she wore her blue
skirt at almost ankle-length. With it
went a tunic of heavy satin brocade
and a tiny black hat balanced on a
severe Eton coiffure. At the same meet-
ing a figure in white, with a bunch of
fuchsias to match a deep lilac hat, was
followed by stage whispers of “There’s
Carrie,” which soon resolved into
friendly greetings. This visitor was
Carrie Moore, merriest “Merry Widow”
of bygone years. Mrs. Hubert Levi wore
a plainly-cut frock of undulating hori-
zontal stripes in several shades of pink.
Mrs. Chester Guest’s large navy hat car-
ried a pink flower, and Mrs. Frank
Boan’s equally large black hat sported a
shiny jet-winged, bead-eyed bird.
It’s an old wives’ tale that green is
unlucky. Jean Batten (who, incidentally,
left Sydney for New Plymouth on a Fri-
day) flew a green ’plane. Then, at the
Cup, Mrs. Ivan Gutmann, who wore' a
green taffeta petticoat frill to her printed
frock of London-tan, and Beth Campbell,
whose honey-gold dress was clasped at
the neck with a green butterfly brooch,
both backed Wotan! Mrs. Gutmann
backed him for aesthetic reasons; she’s
interested in the arts and quite approves
of Nordic deities in the abstract. Girlie
Warburton and Mrs. Fred Matear also
had the winner; so did Mrs. C. W.
Batten, whose reason was that he was
the roughest thing in the race. Adelaide
visitors Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson and
Yvonne were also supporters of the
Thunder God from M.L. ; their choice
was inspired by Mrs. Richardson’s en-
thusiasm for Wagnerian opera!
George Dickenson told all his friends
and acquaintances about a horse called
Wotan (which at the time he declar.es
he had never heard of) winning the Cup
in a dream he had last June. George
has a great sense of humor and fine
dramatic ability, and he made a splendid
tale, of the dream horse, but few of his
friends took the tip ; in fact, some of
them laid wagers with him against the
horse even starting.
Among inter-State visitors to the Cup
were a motoring foursome from Sydney,
Mrs. Cyril Westcott, Enid Curtis, Mrs.
Dud Nettlefold and Sue Russell. All are
constant racegoers except Mrs. Westcott,
who fancied Ena in the Mimosa Stakes
on the logical ground that Ena’s number,
three, corresponded to the first on Mrs.
Westcott’s member’s ticket! But Mrs.
Herbert Benton had such a merry lunch
party in her car that everybody forgot
the time, and Ena had won the race
before her intending backer had reached
the last course out of the picnic hamper.
Trailing gowns were rare at the garden-
party given by the Governor and Lady
Huntingfield. Ankles were definitely “in,”
and calves, too, especially on inter-State
visitors —Melbourne does not wear its
dresses quite as short as Sydney.
Viscount and Viscountess Elibank came
to the party with knight Robert Knox
and his lady. It was largely owing to the
persuasive powers of Robert Knox that
the overseas visitors made a decision
while still in M.L. to visit Melbourne
for the Cup. Viscountess Elibank wore
one of the very few trained gowns on
the lawn. Of black chiffon, it was
accompanied by a small hat, the crown
composed almost' entirely of black and
grey feathers. The coquetry of net in
dark shades was seen here and there v
Mrs. Douglas Carnegie’s ensemble in-
cluded a little net jacket, and camellias
bloomed under the brim of her big black
hat. The George Landales were noticed
in the shade of a magnificent elm, Mrs.
Landale in a patterned frock and an ash-
rose hat. Mrs. Bowes Kelly, who has
been an identity at so many big func-
tions given by Governors of the past,
was present with her daughters. Dr. and
Mrs. Hume Turnbull and Commander
and Mrs. Leo Quick were also noticed,
and a glimpse was caught of Mrs. Archie
Currie in one of the dark background
ninon dresses without which no wardrobe
is complete this year. Mrs. Currie’s
choice was pastel-pink and cream mar-
guerites on a black ground.
On lawns and in marquees Mrs.
George Dickenson and Lynette received
many congratulations for the male
Dickenson’s win on Wotan. Incidentally,
they didn’t take his dream seriously, had
no bets on Wotan, and watched the race
quite calmly until they had the exciting
shock of seeing 15 go up on the board.
A resplendent officer who waited
round the edge of the lawn to collect
wife and daughter on their arrival was
the Base Commandant, Brigadier McColl.
The garden-party was all braid and
medals, for the Navy was present in full
strength. Lord and Lady Huntingfield
stood up to their job nobly, and only the
last hundred or so at the tail-end of the
crocodile found their wait in vain when
handshakes were abandoned and the vice-
regal pair moved off in different direc-
tions, Lord Huntingfield eventually to
eat ice-cream in the ballroom buffet and
Lady Huntingfield to drink tea and ac-
count for a sandwich or two in one of
the. garden marquees.
Dark-brown eyes and jet-black hair
belong to Elma Roach, seen here in a
Broothorn portrait. Miss Roach and
Madge Freeman (Mrs. Lanfear Thomp-
son), artists and fellow-travellers in
many interesting parts of the world, are
holding an exhibition of French craft-
work in enamel. From to-day (11th)
their dress clips, brooches and other small
ornamental pieces will be removed from
Miss Roach’s studio, 117 Collins-street,
to Miss Freeman’s “converted stable” at
144 Gipps-street, East Melbourne.
A sword dance and a hornpipe per-
formed by marines and a guard of honor
made by cadets (the smallest ones very
alert at the start and very sleepy towards
the end of their duty parade) were diver-
tissements of the Navy League Ball in
Earl’s Court. Every table was booked,
sometimes twice over, which caused at
least dark looks between victors and van-
quished. The dresses were lovely and
nearly all the women present seemed to
have some qualifications for honors in
either beauty of person, design of clothes,
vivacity or charm.
The vice-regal allotment was reserved
not in its usual locality at the end of the
room but at the side, facing the band.
Capt. Pidgeon, president of the Victorian
branch of the Navy League, was present
with his wife, who tuned up her black
gown with Gloucester-green gloves and
fan. The vogue for narrow shoulder-
straps was adopted by Mrs. Jim Dodds,
whose gown was of black moire. White
satin, that steady favorite, had an ad-
herent in Mrs. Keith Tolhurst, whose
coral-pink flower at waist was the only
dash of color on an ensemble which in-
cluded a long angel cape reaching below
the knees. Nell MacMicking, in a simple
frock of black-spotted white satin,
accompanied her fiance Alston Wallace
(wedding on Mrs. Arthur Tilley
wore her hair in the curvilinear roll
which was born in Paris not so long ago
and is emerging slowly but surely out of
Melbourne’s fashionable hairdressers’
salons. Mrs. McColl McCowan was in
banana-tinted satin, and Mrs. Angus
Gibbs had several layers of rose-pink
tulle cape over her pink gown. Present
also were Group-Captain and Mrs. Mc-
Namara, who, with their son Bobbie and
other possessions, left yesterday in the
Orion for England on exchange duty.
The Richard Lintons came late to St.
Vincent’s Hospital Ball, which was bad
luck for them, as they missed one of the
best suppers that have ever equipped a
charity function; from oyster cocktail
to meringue glace, it was extra fine fare.
Other latecomers were Major and Mrs.
Gordon Johnston. Special guests were
invited from all the Services, and as
uniforms were worn by request Myer’s
ballroom glittered with medals and was
weighty with gold braid (the squadron
was in port for the Cup). There were
also heaps of doctors present, those who
had them complete with wives. Dr. Bill
Newing was noticed behind his dark-red
lapels ; Mrs. Newing attached gardenias
to black velvet. Others were Col. and
Mrs. Jefferson Walker (she in brick-dust
red with rosettes running round her
shoulders), Group-Captain and Mrs. de
la Rue and Wing-Commander and Mrs.
C. G. Jones.
Early in the evening debutantes and
their partners paraded down the stairs
and up the long room, and during supper
there was a mannequin parade over the
same route. Margaret Donald led the
fashion pageant in scarlet and white
beach attire and a black hat of dimen-
sions to conquer the sun, though likely
to be vanquished by the wind. Shirlie
Carroll’s gold lace gown was hoisted
to infinitesimal shoulder straps, and
Madeliene Orr walked as if her bor-
rowed plumage of lacquered satin gave
her extra confidence. Beryl Moore, a
non-smoker, had to attempt a puff or
two, for the voice at the microphone
drew attention to her empty cigarette-
holder (“atmosphere” for her cocktail
gown) and immediately one of the guests
got up to repair the deficiency. The
model worn by Carina Winter was of
pink chiffon patterned with large choco-
late-colored spots. Joan Purnell’s
flowered evening ensemble had a de-
tachable cape which could for variation
be transposed to form a long train.
High rank sits lightly on the Earl of
Ranfurly. Tall, slim, with a twinkle of
boyhood humor in his smile and no de-
corations on his lapels, he climbed out of
an official car at the Lord Mayor’s Ball
and, dodging red carpets and pathway
pegged out by officers of the Royal Mel-
bourne Regiment, slipped through the
crowds with Anne Vanneck and Ann
Lane-Poole. He danced very little, seem-
ing quite content to stand about and talk.
Those guests among the 3000 who knew
his identity were delighted to find a
young peer who appears to be the anti-
thesis of blase sophistication.
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
invited the Premier and Mrs. Dunstan to
share in the receiving, so that many kid-
gloved hands received four clasps. The
decorations were very elaborate; the
stage became a garden of real flowers,
the balconies a forest of young trees and
lattice-work an arbor of pink azaleas.
The crowd, very dense at first, thinned
out at supper-time, after which dancing
was not a matter of duty but a genuine
pleasure. The roof garden buffet bar
was highly popular. Far up above the
city it presented a garden of azaleas, a
cool eyrie with the rumble of the traffic
in the distance and colored electric street
signs flickering through the chinks in the
canvas.
In the variety of uniforms that of
Colonel D. D. Paine was noticeable, for
he sported the sombre black-and-white
of the Army Service Corps. Colonel
Paine had had a busy day pushing
through the scrums at the Cup, his larg-
ish job being to see that no unlicensed
bookmakers were operating and no bets
being made on unstamped tickets. Major
Todd danced in Highland uniform.
Colonel and Mrs. Clive Steele were
there, Mrs. Steele in black, with her
shoulders hidden by a feather cape. Mrs.
W. S. Cox was in arbutus-pink lace.
Mrs. Bruce Mead wore mist-blue
chiffon with a cherry velvet belt. Valerie
Crowther’s blossom-blue net gown was
cut with an intriguing caped effect so
that gardenias made a garland round the
shoulders. Mrs. Vinton Smith’s black
gown radiated gold sequins in a sun-
ray pattern on the skirt.
A useful traffic improvement this year
was brought about by red carpets strewn
on either side of the portico. Thus, in-
stead of one car dislodging its cargo with
the assistance of a sergeant-majorlike
official, four cars pulled up at once and
four white-kid-gloved hands were on the
spot to open doors and lend an arm if
necessary to elegant women in all their
glory of feathers and diamonds.
Among last week’s private entertain-
ments, which fell thick as flakes in a
snowstorm, was the Tom Hudsons’ late-
afternoon party for their guest from Syd-
ney, Mrs. Charles Duval. Even the
knowledge that it would be the. nicest
possible sort of party could not lure the
male Duval up from the Peninsula Coun-
try Club, the one spot in Victoria which
spells for him a real holiday. Mrs.
Hudson received her guests in soft
blossom-blue chiffon. Mrs. Duval’s
black gown of formal length had its
complicated neck draperies adjusted with
gold clips. At the Cup, her first for 25
years, her choice was an equally attrac-
tive black dress.
Among other guests who went explor-
ing from crowded billiard-room and
glassed-in verandah to the garden with
its bird’s-eye view of South Yarra and
the river was Mrs. Stuart Brunton, wear-
ing a sable cape over her tailored dress.
She was accompanied by daughter
Gladys, distinguishable in the throng by
the tall feather in her Alpine hat. G. D.
Healy, having shelved banking respon-
sibilities for the day, accompanied his
wife, who wore black and silver foxes.
The Norman Cozens pair arrived late,
having become entwined in a number of
parties for the same sunset hour. Mrs.
Fred Beit’s navy taffeta cocktail suit
went with a cream lace blouse and a
two-decisions hat, brim of banana straw
and crown of navy taffeta.
Those on last week’s social round
found they needed the digestion of
ostriches. Luncheons —picnic in the
members’ parking paddock at Fleming-
ton or served with many courses and
in all formality at home or in hotels —
cocktail parties, dinners and suppers
crowded each other every day. On race
days hotel lounges were so packed in the
late afternoons that only weight of name
secured tables and force of character las-
soed waiters. At Scott’s on Cup night
there was standing-room only —drinks in
one hand, race books and facial make-
up in the other. Pepple with chairs to
sit on disappeared from view and were
not seen or heard of for the time being.
Champagne flowed at many private
parties, notably the Gengoult Smith
christening celebration for their daughter,
the last baby in the string of the Duke of
Gloucester’s godchildren. At the Austra-
lian Club Ball decorations were as lavish
as ever, and at the at-home given by the
Naval Squadron all went well in spite
of the amplifiers on the Sydney getting
out of order, so that all dancing took
place on the Australia.
The weather cleared after a wet day,
but many anxious young people scanned
the horizon between seven and seven-
thirty for the beams of a searchlight; on
the invitations was a note to the effect
that should the rain interfere with the
party a searchlight played over the sky
at dusk would denote its postponement.
There were programmes, but they didn’t
matter much. Nobody minded mix-ups
over wrong numbers, girls waiting to
keep appointments with lads who some-
how missed their cues were soon asked
to step upon the quarter-deck by young
men whose rightful partners had failed
to report “present.” Supper was a buffet
on the Customs shed deck of Prince’s
Pier, and there were two bars which kept
going all night on both ships.


Flawless materials, delicately
wrought by master craftsmen, give
Stuart Crystal the peculiar depth and
brilliance found in no other glass.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Soleßepresentatives(wholesaleonly)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204, Clarence St. Sydney
Personal and Missing Friends.
ALLEN, FREDERICK ROBERT, age 49 (ex-
A.1.F.), assistant Major Hewitt, of Lever Bros.,
Solomon Islands, 1909, born Cricklewood,
London, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
will hear something to his advantage. Com-
municate WOOD & ARMSTRONG, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 522 of 1936.
BETWEEN DOROTHY MABEL HOLGATE
Petitioner
And EDWARD WILFRED HOLGATE
Respondent.
TO EDWARD WILFRED HOLGATE late of
Rockhampton in the State of Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
MABEL HOLGATE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-seventh day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A certi-
fied copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 26th day of October, a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W. C. DICKIE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1654 of 1936.
BETWEEN NORMAN CARL EAGLES Peti-
tioner
And PHYLLIS MARJORIE MIRRIAM
EAGLES formerly Phyllis Marjorie Mir-
riam Derwin Respondent.
TO PHYLLIS MARJORIE MIRRIAM
EAGLES late of Number 6 Balfour Street
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORMAN
CARL EAGLES has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A certified copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 9th day of November, 1936.
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. N. HENDERSON & TAYLOR, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, Woodstock Chambers, 88
Pitt Street, Sydney.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd, Adelaide.
Meet
me
Phantom
m
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Now on Sale
\aV--' k
\Y
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The blue ensign just granted by the
King was unfurled by the Lieut.-Gover-
nor at the Freshwater Bay Yacht Club’s
official opening. The shivoo was a color-
ful affair, with commodores and flag
officers from many clubs in full regalia
and hundreds of guests in summery rig-
ging. James Mitchell’s lady held presen-
tation roses agaipst beige cloque, Mrs.
G. H. Bacon stood next her commodore
husband in crab-pink French crepe with
a scarlet bird winging on her navy baku
straw, club-founder Aubrey Sherwood
had his other half’s blue-and-white
figured silks alongside, patron Talbot
Hobbs was there with milady’s boom-
brown ensemble in tow, and secretary
J. G. Foreman escorted Mrs. Foreman’s
nautical navy and white.
The Bishop of Bunbury forged the
matrimonial link between Robert Bruce,
youngest son of the Lefroy lady and the
late Henry Lefroy, and the C. L. Clarkes’
only daughter Nan. Festoons of aspara-
gus fern dotted with posies of sweet-peas
decked St. Paul’s, Bunbury, and there
was a bridal arch of roses and fern. A
shirred line studded with luminous pearl
orange-blossom edged the V neck of
Nan’s trained magnolia satin, over which
wafted an enveloping cloud of tulle. Her
attendants, Barbara Messer, Sybil Clarke
and Ermine Rose, fluffed misty-blue tulle
over deeper satin, with shaded blue
flowers circling the shoulders, catching
the puff sleeves, forming their haloes and
alighting in' single buds on their skirts.
The 300 guests honored toasts at Bed-
ford Hall, where Mrs. Clarke’s black
georgettes and lace were set off by multi-
colored flowers. #
Tiny candles flickering in grotesquely-
carved oranges shed the only illumination
at the Pleiades Club Hallowe’en party.
Ghostly stories were told in the dark,
fortunes were brewed in a witch’s caul-
dron, eerie shadows appeared on a screen
and bats and cats loomed menacingly
around. Grand finale of the spooky
proceedings was the entry of the feast,
born aloft by weirdly-garbed creatures
headed by a piper (Nancy Rogers’s com-
bination of dust-brush, pegs, coat-
hangers and ribbons made laudable bag-
pipes). These marched round the hall
singing a Scottish ballad until the entire
assemblage joined in and became part of
the procession.
Dr. Malcolm Sargent’s lone appear-
ance at His Majesty’s (bar the children’s
concert) had the best preliminary book-
ing for years, and a packed house greeted
him. The soft blue lace girding Ida
Geddes, soloist in Elgar’s “Music
Makers,” was backgrounded by the all-
black trappings of the orchestra and the
black and white of the choir. The gift
of a boomerang and the spontaneous
singing of “He’s a Jolly Good Fellow”
brought the conductor back for a final
bow.
Norma Rolland’s return from an exten-
sive trip abroad was celebrated by a brace
of welcome-home parties. Dorothy
Davis, set about with grey floral ninon,
welcomed a host of guests at her home
in Subiaco, where the guest of honor
trailed nut-brown lace. Mrs. V. G.
Evans, neat and sweet in crisp green
linen, poured tea at the Alexandra
lounge, where Norma’s navy skirt and
blue-and-white checked tunic were in a
box seat.
Frederick Townsend and Florence
Armstrong slipped quietly into matri-
mony at Perth College chapel. Before
her marriage the bride was a geologist
for the Western Mining Corp., president
of the Pleiades Club and president of
the University Women’s Society. She has
resigned from all three positions to take
up housekeeping at Kelmscott.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Palais Royal was crowded for
the Caledonian Society’s Hallowe’en
party. Chief Ritchie and his lady enter-
tained important guests, and there was
dancing galore, the youngest performer,
Wee McDermott, boasting a sporran that
trailed on the ground.
The Countess Christine de Hemptinne,
from Belgium, was given a civic recep-
tion. The lady, who is president of the
Junior International Catholic Women’s
League, was first received on her arrival
by Archbishop Killian.
Lady Dugan was entertained at an
afternoon party by the committee and
members of the Lyceum in the new
club rooms at the C.M.L. Building, near
the top of our latest skyscraper. The
president, Mabel Marryat, welcomed
the guest of honor and introduced her
to members.
Centenary year is responsible for
many revivals, among them municipal
mayoral balls, last held 14 years ago.
The Norwood and Kensington Mayor
and Mayoress entertained at their Town
Hall, brightly decorated for the occa-
sion with blue and scarlet bunting and
troughs of scarlet geranium and blue
delphiniums, the stage arranged as a
garden with huge urns filled with prunus
and gladioli. Mayor and Mayoress
Hanson received the guests, the lady in
tight-fitting green suede crepe. The
Governor and Lady Dugan were there,
she in petunia-toned chiffon with cerise
outlining the corsage and lining the
wing sleeves. Mayoress Dunstan’s
fuchsia-toned ninon had tiny frills on
the flounces and round the corsage. Mrs.
A. M. Martyn (wife of the Base Com-
mandant) chose sage-green satin with
silver tissue edging the neckline, and a
corsage spray of red roses. Mrs. Symonds
(wife of the Naval District Officer)
danced in black marocain trimmed with
diamente. The three daughters of the
Mayor, Joan, Miriam and Barbara, chose
respectively cream taffeta, Marina blue
satin desoie and deep-pink taffeta. Mrs.
C. L. Abbott was handsomely gowned
in dull green and gold brocade.
The ball in the Palais Royal in honor
of the English cricketers drew a throng
of 1200. W. H. Hodgetts and his wife
acted as host and hostess, and brought
enough pretty girls with them to provide
the visitors with partners. Wyatt, still
the wounded warrior with his arm in a
sling, was well looked after and never
lacked a guardian angel. Mrs. Hodgetts
was gowned in a black-and-silver lame
flowered with small pattern, her daughter
Mary dancing in white crepe. Katherine
Rymill chose a flowered chiffon in pastel
shades, and Marjorie Hawker’s diagon-
ally-cut white silk had a black hair stripe
and a backless bodice of black satin.
TASMANIA.
For the racing at Elwick the weather
was beautiful, and frocking was smart
and summery. T.R.C. chairman A. J.
Miller entertained visitors at tea.
At the late-afternoon race-party given
by Dr. and Mrs. C. N. Atkins at their
home, cocktails and savories were served
in three rooms to over 100 guests. Lady
Clark and Mrs. Stewart Baker, a visitor
at Government House, were present and
the floral decorations were exquisite. Mrs.
Atkins chose dusty-pink Continental silk,
and daughter Barbara, who assisted her,
sported blue crepe with fine shirrings on
bodice and sleeves.
A big dance was given by Mrs. Scott-
Young and Mrs. Robert Hawker at
Palmerston, Cressy, the hostesses being
assisted by Betty Waterhouse and Mar-
garet Hawker, two of this year’s debs.
Purple irises, laburnum and pink tulips
had been gathered from the Palmerston
garden. Margaret wore a gold belt and
a coat of pale-gold lame with her vivid
emerald-green satin, and Betty’s black
lacquer taffeta was spotted with red.
Guests came from all round the country.
The Army and Navy Club’s at-home
at the Masonic Hall was attended by
the Governor and Lady Clark, who
were accompanied by Mrs. Johnson and
Mrs. Stewart Baker. Lady Clark wore
a graceful gown of chiffon in a' deep
prune shade, with flowing scarf dra-
peries. Mrs. Ellis Cox, wife of the club
president, who was hostess, chose black
net embroidered with large white dots.
The Governor, accompanied by Lady
Clark, motored to Launceston to un-
veil a memorial to the Rev. Charles
Price, founder of Launceston’s first
Congregational church and its pastor
for many years.
A dance was given by the Ellis Pixley
family at their home, Baronia, Kingston
Beach. Pink rhododendrons and apple-
blossom decked the rooms, and the ball-
room was gay with tall-stemmed Iceland
poppies. Many guests motored out from
town.
For her evening bridge party at the
Queen Mary Club, Mrs. N. D. Ferguson,
the hostess, wore a trained frock of
matelasse in deep cyclamen shade, with
a circular cape and a small posy of
flowers at the neckline.
A throng went to Bushy Park, New
Norfolk, to say farewell to the Vincent
Shoobridges and daughter Nancy, who
are leaving the district after many
years’ residence to live in New Town. A
committee of residents, with W. Mason
as secretary, presented them with a
chiming clock in a blackwood case.
The engagement of Peggy, daughter
of Mrs. G. A. Gurney and the late Major
Gurney, to Dr. B. Hiller is announced.
Another engagement is that of Amy
Mavis, only daughter of the A. S.
D’Emdens, of Brisbane, to Albert Nor-
man, youngest son of the late Ernest
Gatenby and Mrs. Gatenby, Blackwall.
“Shinty”: Though their doings have
been little heralded on this side, the Aus-
tralian hockey girls in America have
done themselves proud. After a vic-
torious progress across the U.S.A.
defeating American club teams, they
reached Philadelphia for the international
tourney. Here England retained its title
of world’s champion, accounting for the
Australians, 6-3, in the last match of the
series. Final placings showed U.S.A. in
second place and Scotland and South
Africa a tie;, for third. The Australians
came next, followed by Ireland, The
Etceteras and Wales in that order. There
was some talk of our girls going on to
Europe, but as the cable says they are
on their way to Los Angeles they will
probably be making their way home by
that route if the shipping strike permits.
* * * *
“8.Y.J.”: One of the difficulties of a
mining surveyor when he is mapping the
surface of a shaft or cut is to keep his
pencils handy. He uses different colors
for the different kinds of rock, and
often needs a whole battery of them. A
surveyor in Fiji solved 1 the difficulty by
using his shock-headed chain boy as a
kind of pincushion pencil-holder. Mak-
ing the boy stand alongside him while
he was mapping, he would stick the
pencils horizontally into his hair. When
the surveyor climbed on to a ledge three
feet above him, the boy stood below,
and he’d gravely take out the pencils
from their horizontal position and stick
them in again vertically.


S-T-R-ET-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth.
Western Australia.
Examiner Annual, 1936
Tasmania s Outstanding Pictorial Annual.
A Galaxy of Scenic Beauty.
1/6
ORDER A COPY NOW
from your Newsagent.
1/6
Australian Representatives:
Gordon & Gotch (Aust.), Limited.
The Latest Vogue with Horsemen!
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING
BOOTS
é
Popular for mounted and unmounted
wear.
Easy and quick to put on and take
off.
In Full and Half Sizes.
33/9 Pair.
Send Your Order To-day.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Case of Dr. Fenton
“East Point”: Darwin people are in-
dignant at the treatment meted out to
Dr. Fenton.
The N.T.’s flying doctor was fined for
flying low over a picture-show, and since
then there has been nothing but trouble.
More than once his machine has been
declared unairworthy, but always some
medical emergency has cropped up which
has led him to take the risk and fly, air-
worthy or not.
A few months ago, when it was sup-
posed to be dangerous for him to fly
even 100 miles, news of a death in the
family impelled him to take off for Soo-
chow, in China, and back, a flight to
test even a four-engined airliner. After
this performance the doctor was de-
licensed. His machine was officially un-
airworthy, and mechanics of Qantas
were forbidden to repair it when a call
came from Bathurst Island, where some
of Father Gsell’s flock had been smitten
with an epidemic. The department even-
tually gave a temporary certificate.
Doctor Fenton promptly took off and
arrived safe.
It was proposed to subsidise another
aerial medical organisation to take over
his work. The effect of this would be
to drive him out of his practice, which
he has pioneered at the risk of his life
and at his own expense.
A large public meeting at Darwin has
protested. And so it should. Dr. Fenton
has refused no call for his services during
the time he has been in practice in the
North. He has risked night landings and
monsoon weather frequently in a bat-
tered and overworked ’plane. He has
sometimes been out of bed for days at
a time, attending to bushmen from
whom he could expect no adequate fee.
It will be one of the most shameful
things the Canberra Government has ever
done if he is squeezed out. A more sen-
sible and logical thing would be to subsi-
dise him sufficiently to enable the pur-
chase of up-to-date aerial equipment.
There seems to be no doubt about his
ability in the air.
“Sepik”: Interesting place, the New
Guinea Mandate. Here is the location
of key officials at the moment of writ-
ing : Administrator, on leave in Australia.
Chief Judge and Acting-Administrator, in
hospital for the last six weeks. Govern-
ment Secretary, on 12 months’ leave.
Chief Collector of Customs, gone on 12
months’ leave and resigned. Head of
the Lands and Mines departments, on
leave —a trip to China and Japan. Ditto
Public Works head. Government Ento-
mologist, in Europe, along with the man
in charge of Government stores. Chief
of Police, touring Australia and Europe.
Police Chief of New Britain, in Aus-
tralia. Five of these people, with three
other officials and one non-official, form
the Executive Council.
* * * *
“Emme”: Growers by the border are
greatly perturbed at the new regulations
which compel the inspection of all fruit
and vegetables going into N.S.W. It has
been ordered that no plant, fruit or veg.
shall cross the border except during the
hours between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. from
Mondays to Fridays, and from 6 a.m.
to 12 noon and 2.30 to 5 p.m. on Satur-
days. Of course, there will be a charge
to cover inspection. Presumably some
of our plants are affected by diseases
which, under some obscure law of nature,
have a respect for State borders. Wouldn’t
it be just as reasonable to have a medi-
cal inspection of humans and compel
them to have passports and medical certi-
ficates? They might afflict N. S. Welsh-
men with measles.
* * * *
“J.W.”: Australia’s east coast, from
Sydney well into the tropics, has a new
industry. Bonuses for dingo scalps and
kangaroo destruction are no new thing,
and cane-farmers pay for pests that chil-
dren collect by the bucketful ; now the
dog tick has been added to the list. The
Commonwealth Health Department is on
its track, offering 3d. per female de-
livered at the Health Department, Mel-
bourne. The lady should be put into a
bottle with some grass or moist blotting-
paper. She will travel through the post
alive enough to produce serum to cure
tick paralysis.
* * *
“Ecko”: Brisbane papers have lately
shown much concern over whether a cat
will breed with a kangaroo, somebody
having turned up with a creature wear-
ing a cat’s head, a kangaroo’s body and
“Mary, We have come to tell you your husband has been arrested
“Jacky all rt', missus. ’Im bin wantum holiday long time”
the skin and fur of a rabbit. It hops like
a kangaroo-rat. Randolph Bedford had
a look at it and called in the museum,
which confessed puzzlement, but doubted
whether ’roo would mate with cat.
What it tackles in the way of tucker,
cats being carnivorous and ’roos her-
bivorous, should help clear up the
mystery. The animal comes from
Charleville. All sorts of things are likely
to happen out there. That western town
in its merrier days once owned a mare
which, after swilling a couple of gallons
of XXX, used to raid the local clothes-
lines and eat everybody’s Sunday mole-
skins.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Radio is making a big differ-
ence educationally to Queensland’s back
country. Time was when correspon-
dence schools looked after, remote pupils,
the system sometimes being reinforced
by periodic visits of teachers by pack-
horse and buggy. To-day 2000 children
get their instruction by radio, and when
the new A.B.C. station opens at Towns-
ville another 1000 will be added. A
committee is being formed to revise the
present syllabus, and the department
already looks forward to the day when
television will make it possible to repro-
duce a blackboard in outback schools and
stations.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
With a bower of pink and blue
flowers, George Sampson at the organ
and Dean Barrett to tie the knot, beauti-
fied and dignified was the wedding at
St. John’s of Alfred Belmont Clark and
Constance Barber. The bride is the
second daughter of the late J. C. Barbel
and Mrs. Barber, Nundah. The ’groom
hails from Koonya, Tasmania, and is the
son of the B. M. Clarks. The bride’s
uncle, T. M. Barber, gave her away.
Sister Gwen was bridesmaid, and Jack
Clark was offsider for his brother. The
bride wore pink and a wide-brimmed
hat'; the 'maid was in powder blue. The
reception was at the Belle Vue, and the
newly-weds left by car for Sydney and
Melbourne. They will set up house at
Koonya.
Several weddings are listed for this
month, and brides-to-be provide an ex-
cuse for all sorts of junketings. Doris
Willson and Roy Beardmore have settled
on November 28 as their date, and Enid
Whittington began the round of pre-teas
with a “wogs” party at the Portland
Lounge.
Walter Mills and Noreen Burton also
have a wedding date this month, and
Nancy Mills hostessed the first party for
the bride-elect at Rowe’s.
Honor Benjamin is to marry R. G.
Colbert in Sydney, from the home of
her sister, Mrs. Ewart Collings. Mrs.
D. A. Ross gave a linen tea in honor of
the bride-elect, whose linen cupboard
should be well stocked judging by the
heaps of parcels piled up in front of her.
Some bridge was played, and the guests
saw the trousseau —very lovely, too.
Melbourne Cup day saw more parties
in Hotels, cafes and private homes than
any other day of the year. Mrs. A. J.
Deakin and Mrs. D. E. Evans had their
party at Rowe’s ; Mrs. Duncan McWhir-
ter entertained at her home ; so did Mrs.
E. T. Real and her daughters Patricia
and Betty; also Mrs. A. G. Anderson
and Mrs. Lionel Johnson. There was
also a big Cup party at the Belle Vue,
to aid funds of the St. Vincent de Paul
appeal; and every citizen with a radio
had a packed house of both invited and
uninvited guests.
The Repertory Society’s Ball and
bridge party was so great a success that
it’s to be an annual affair. There were
some lovely frocks, and some lovely
girls in them. The dining-room at
Lennon’s was packed with card-tables,
and the dancers could hardly wriggle
through to get to the supper-room.
A special attraction at the Arts and
Crafts annual exhibition this week —the
twenty-fifth anniversary—will be the
chapel altar which five members have
combined to create. Billy Bustard did
the stained glass, Daphne Mayo the
panels for the Stations of the Cross, Mrs.
Reydon wove the altar drape and cloth,
F. J. Mole made the candlesticks, and
Mrs. Scott Fletcher carved the stool and
alms dish. Some marvellous tapestry,
both old and new, has been lent, and will
be an important section of the show.
• Miss E. P. Large, for many years head-
mistress of the old Normal School for
Girls, opened the Red Cross Link fete
at Dalhousie, Mrs. Scott Mullin's home
at Clayfield. There were bridge tables
on a smooth green lawn under the shade
of trees, afternoon-tea tables in another
corner of the garden, stalls and a large
tree hung with all sorts and shapes of
parcels tied up in colored paper —an ad-
vance Christmas-gift treat for the chil-
dren. Clarice White, president of the Red
Cross Link; Mrs. Henry Robertson,
president of the Red Cross Society; and
Mrs. Scott Mullin greeted the guests.
Del Mullin handed over the bouquets
made for Miss Large and Miss White.
State- and secondary-school children
have contributed over £450 towards the
Bush Children’s Health Scheme ; there
is now enough money to give 250 child-
ren a seaside holiday, and also to send
190 kiddies in the Longreach district to
the shore this summer. The contribution
from the school-children was raised by
the sale of Bush Children’s Health
Scheme stamps at Id. each.
The women’s section of the Social Ser-
vice League presented Mrs. Percy Pease
with a leather travelling case and cushion
before she left for Canada with her hus-
band. A much nicer farewell than Mr.
Percy got, for some anonymous “friend”
wrote him a bon-voyage note which
opened with the hearty wish that Mr.
Percy would drown en route to Canada.
Those things happen to even the best-
liked party politicians. The gifts were
handed over to Mrs. Pease at a dinner
party in the palm lounge at the Canberra,
with Lady Mayoress Mrs. A. J. Jones as
official hostess.
The Governor and Lady Wilson were
the guests of the J. H. S. Barnes couple,
Canning Downs, while they were in War-
wick for the Bushmen’s Carnival. On
Sunday morning they visited the Slade
School, and had morning-tea with the
principal, Rev. A. E. N. Hughes. By
the way, it’s thanks to the Governor
that we have Bushmen’s Carnivals nowa-
days instead of rodeos. He objected
to the Americanism, and it went out of
favor.
Archbishop Duhig lent the grounds of
Wynberg, New Farm, for the garden
party in aid of the St. Vincent de Paul
appeal, and the Belle Vue orchestra pro-
vided the musical accompaniment to the
afternoon’s activities. There was such a
good roll-up that it was difficult to avoid
stepping into the bowls of water and
crumbs which always dot the Wynberg
lawn for the birds. The feathered tribes
must be glad of that sanctuary now, with
no rain and bushfires blazing all round
the town.


mm
m
mm
H
m
1
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Bola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Raunch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
READ
ITlrJfi WC/lyBlL
Go^tiGQaaw
[IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZIALANtTfr
Published on the First of Every Month.
PRICE, 6d. PER COPY.
On sale at all Newsagents throughout Aus-
tralasia ; or 7d. per copy, post free, from
the publishers.
P.O. BOX A, HURSTVILLE, N.S.W.
ZXEfr'
1936 Dual-wave
PENTAGRID FOUR,
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6 Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6, 2-4, 4/6,
42 61- ■ 6A7 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders,’ 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 BOYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
THE HOME WORKSHOP
INCORORATING
RADIO NEWS
GLASS IN 1936.
BY DON B.KNOCK.
Experts claim that they could take a
pound of liquid molten glass and spin it
into a thread that would girdle the earth.
It takes a silkworm three weeks to spin
a mile of silk thread, and a mile of glass
thread, one-twentieth as thick as a human
hair and finer than silk, can be spun in
three seconds.
In the U.S.A. glass hats in lustrous
colors are attracting the fair sex. Girl
employees of a glass manufacturer are
reported to have knitted sweaters and
other articles in attractive glass-thread
patterns.
Cloth can be made from glass strands,
and is proof against moths and moisture.
Paris dressmakers recently displayed
summer models with lingerie of spun
glass and shoes with toughened glass
heels. The lingerie bends, but does not
break. In New York, the Rialto build-
ing, now in course of construction, is of
glass. The 80ft. tower will be of glass.
In buildings not made of glass blocks,
glass “wool” is used for 1 insulation against
heat and cold, and is a safety curtain
against fire, rats and moisture. Glass
wool is also coming into use as insulation
for steam pipes, and glass yarn makes
perfect insulation for electric cables and
small wires.
Underwater tunnels have always been
a problem to the engineer because of
moisture and vibration. Glass now
comes to the rescue. A new tunnel under
the Hudson River, New York, has a
ceiling of glass tiles. There are 800,000
such tiles set in a metal frame and locked
into place by poured concrete.
Glass is also being used to ward off
termite attacks on trees. Small strips
of glass wool are placed round the tree
trunks, and the insects fail to obtain a
footing on the glassy surface.
Possibly one of the most important
contributions to motoring safety is
modern laminated safety glass. This gives
with an impact, like a spring, absorbing
the blow by bending instead of present-
ing a rigid surface. A sheet of this glass
can be rolled up like a rug. It is also
being applied extensively for aviation.
Novel uses for glass are a springboard,
glass radio receivers of dark-blue
trimmed with chromium steel, a cigarette-
lighter with a glass wick and glass razor
blades. The latter are a Czecho-
slovakian product, and are reported to
be as sharp as steel, but cheaper. Further-
more, they are easily destroyed when
finished with, thus solving the problem
of what to do with old blades. Glass
material is being used in England for
surfacing roads, and such roads are stated
to be unaffected by weather, oil or
grease.
Anti-chatter Lathe Parting Tool.
It is rarely that the amateur turner,
using the conventional form of parting
tool, can cut into metal without severe
chatter and most likely the digging-in and
breaking of the tool. Several forms of
parting tool have been devised, and a
very familiar one in many old-time
workshops is the swan-neck type. This,
because of a certain amount of springi-
ness, can cut without much risk of
chatter. The plain type of parting tool
can, however, be treated to introduce
springiness. The method of doing this
is illustrated. A slot is cut on the under-
side about one-half inch from the cut-
ting end. The same idea is applicable
to other cutting tools, such as shapers.
Trade Topics.
Since its inception a year ago, the
“Model Engineer in Australia and N.Z.,”
published monthly at 6d., has had many
extremely interesting articles. The cur-
rent issue continues a description of the
construction of a 2Jin. gauge Pacific loco-
motive, written by an engineer who obvi-
ously knows his subject. Other articles
deal with a model tug, HO model-gauge
railways, modelling the Awatea and rail-
way photography.
Small-drill Breakage Guard.
There is a tendency for small drills
to bend and break if too much pressure
is applied when drilling metal. A simple
method of avoiding this is illustrated.
A wooden sleeve made from a piece of
an old broomstick or similar material,
with a hole bored just large enough to
take the drill, is slipped over it as shown.
The sleeve may also be used as a depth
guage when it is desired to drill holes
to an exact depth.
Putting the Surf to Work.
Inventors have striven for years to
produce “tidal motors.” A Californian
has evolved one which is stated to be so
effective that even with a modest wave
action 2 h.p. is generated ; enough to run
a dynamo. The illustration shows the
action. A plunger driven upward in a
tube by the waves drives a flywheel
geared to an extension rod, the plunger
returning by gravity as the water re-
cedes. A ratchet and pawl disengage the
flywheel, which is free to continue
motion during wave action. Of course,
several such wave-motors can be used in
a row.
Useful Cleansing Tool.
The illustration (from “Practical Wire-
less”) shows one of many uses to which
old toothbrushes may be applied. A
backing of fine-grade sandpaper is glued
to the brush, and it thus becomes a very
handy accessory for keeping the inside of
a radio receiver free from dust and dirt.
The sandpaper is used for cleaning away
corrosion and for cleaning contacts. For
other mechanical cleaning jobs, coarser
grades of sandpaper could be used.
“Lionel” Accessories.
The replica of an illuminated station,
an accessory to Lionel model railways,
The “Lionel” automatic illuminated station.
is not merely something that looks like
a station; it serves a useful purpose.
Wired into circuit with the tracking this
station automatically stops trains and re-
leases them after a pause correspondng
to the period in which passengers could
be set down and picked up. Deep em-
bossings and projecting pilasters make
this model look realistic. The interior
is illuminated, and there are doorway
lights and a clock. There are ten
panelled windows, swinging doors, orna-
mental grille and a removable skylight.
The size is 13Jin. long, 9Jin. wide and
9in. high. The Lionel catalogue number
of the model is 115.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Soon most listeners will be staying
up late at night to enjoy the. best re-
ception. Already, in the early morning,
the 19m. band is failing us. DJL, GSP
and W2XE may still be heard, but they
are broken by rapid fading and daily
becoming weaker. A similar condition
is manifesting itself to some extent on
the 25m. band, while on the 31m. band
static has been too prevalent of late to
make listening enjoyable. Day after
day, in the forenoon, the writer has
found little to record. After lunch,
TPA4 may be heard, but it is far below
what it was a few months ago. Later
in the afternoon, the German stations
open up; though good, they lack the
remarkable strength they developed dur-
ing the early spring. After dinner, the
listener may content himself for a while
with the banalities of 3LR and 3ME,
changing over at 8.30 p.m. to the Javan-
ese stations, but it is not until 8.55 p.m.
that the choice entertainment begins.
For an hour then the listener can
enjoy the excellent concert of light
music offered nightly by DJB and DJE,
followed by the news in English at 10
p.m. He may then explore the dial for
a few minutes while the Germans send
greetings to their listeners in what they
awkwardly call “the Netherlandish East
Indies,” returning to DJB or DJE at
10.20 p.m. for the continuation of its
concert of light music. This will take
him till 11 p.m., after which he may turn
to any of the numerous stations that are
then offering attractive programmes.
Although the German stations are still,
on the whole, the outstanding per-
formers, there are times during the day
when GSF is every whit as good as the
best of them. Powerful as the German
stations are, they are capable of im-
provement in one or two respects. Their
operators in charge of controls do not
appear to have mastered the problems
created by the recent increase of power.
In their musical items the contrast be-
tween the softer and the louder passages
is too marked, and it is difficult for the
listener to adjust his volume control so
as to give full value to the former with-
out being deafened by the latter. This
is quite distinct, of course, from the
normal matter of fading. Another
thing that is noticed about the German
stations, particularly in their transmission
of orchestral music, is that the bass in-
struments are less satisfactory than the
treble. Flutes and other wind instruments
come through with exquisite clearness,
but the same cannot be said of the in-
struments of deeper tone that form the
foundation of the orchestral effect.
There are some short-wave listeners
whose chief delight it is to log a station
that rival searchers of the dial have not
reported —-to make what the more en-
thusiastic radio journals describe as a
“catch.” I have never seen one of these
catch-hunters, but in imagination I pic-
ture grim sleuths sitting with tense ears
through the long but by no means silent
watches of the night in
the patient hope, some-
times fulfilled, that in
one of the vacant spaces
there may be heard that
faint, almost impercep-
tible fluttering which,
with careful tuning,
may be coaxed into
loudspeaker strength.
What ac fever then pos-
sesses them! How in-
tently they listen
for any indication
that will help them
to identify their
new discovery!
And, having identi-
fied it, swiftly they run to the nearest
post office to mail, ’phone or wire the
news to their favored journal.
That there is excitement for the radio
enthusiast in these quests it would be
hypocrisy not to admit. At the same
time cool reflection suggests that unless
the new station is intrinsically interest-
ing its discovery adds little of permanent
value to the listener’s store. After all,
the rational aim of these explorations is
to know where and when the best pro-
grammes are to be heard. Pursuit of the
means should not obscure the real end
of short-wave listening, which is to de-
light the ears and enrich the. mind with
the best that the world can offer.
P.R.W.


“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Owing to an increase in the price of this
magazine, subscriptions are now 20s. per
year in Australia, acceptable at The
Bulletin office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly, in-
cluding special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to-day, sold
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy l
4-Valve Battery
BROADCAST SUPER-HET
£ll/5/-
Cash only.
Complete with Latest Type Valves,
Heavy Duty Batteries, Amplion Speaker,
100-hour Accumulator, High-grade Com-
ponents, Aerial and Earth.
Assembled and Tested £ll/5/-
Eitted in handsome floor model cabinet,
£l3/2/0.
This is a particularly efficient set,
moderately priced. Guaranteed for one
year.
Other models, Broadcast and Dual-
wave, 4, 5 and 6 valve. Prices and in-
formation by return post.
RADIO PARTS.
Our prices are right! See for yourself.
A price list will be posted if you men-
tion this paper.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. ’Phone: PX5494.
A MODERN FIVE-METRE EXCITER-TRANSMITTER.
Investigation of ultra-shorts is at a
transitory stage, the chief aim being to
design apparatus that will radiate stable
signals. If a transmitter radiates an un-
steady signal, even with high power, it is
of little value for distant working com-
pared with' a much lower-powered steady
signal. Amateurs with ideas beyond
dabbling are “cleaning house” and putting
the modulated oscillator and super-
“squegger” on the scrapheap. To-day,
crystal control or M.O.P.A. and receivers
capable of receiving C.W. Morse trans-
mission on ultra-shorts are favored.
Since obtaining relatively good results
over a radius of 100 miles or so around
Sydney, the writer has worked toward
the development of better apparatus.
The first consideration was to design a
transmitter using crystal stabilisation.
This is not difficult theoretically, but quite
formidable practically. To gain a reason-
able 56mc. output from a crystal exciter
calls for a succession of stages. This
does not suit the average amateur pocket.
The ordinary M.O.P.A. arrangement has
not been popular either, because
stability is not compatible with an over-
loaded oscillator. If the oscillator
“drifts,” the addition of an amplifier is
of little value. Electron-coupled oscil-
lators offer a solution, but normally there
is little to be obtained in the way of R.F.
output at 56mc. Then came the 6L6.
This new metal valve, introduced by
R.C.A. (and A.W.A. Valve Co. in Aus-
tralia), is much in the limelight as an
exceptionally powerful audio type for
little grid input. Naturally its R.F. capa-
bilities are not overlooked in amateur
radio. Experiments were undertaken by
the writer to test its possibilities as an
ultra-high-frequency generator, and the
results were particularly satisfying.
The diagram shows the initial stages of
a new five-metre transmitter now in use
at VK2NO. In itself it comprises a useful
low-powered modern transmitter. The
6L6 is used as an e.c. oscillator, with grid
at 10 metres and plate at five metres. The
R.F. output at five with only 350 volts
on the plate is astonishing. It is about
equal to the output obtainable with a
53 at 14mc., with a 7mc. crystal. The
6L6 thus provides a fine solution to the
five-metre problem. Another 6L6 can
be used as buffer, but it must be neutral-
ised. Two aluminium plates lin. square
about lin. apart will do the trick. In
order to avoid the neutralisation busi-
ness, other valves were considered. The
802 offered itself. Actually the valve
used by the writer is the Raytheon
RK2S, similar in characteristics and be-
havior to the 802. A buffer stage was
made up as in the diagram, capacity-
coupled, and the output from this at
56mc. is enough to satisfy the most rabid
“ham.”
Those who are partial to the excellent
6P6-type valve should note that one of
these could be used here, and, better still,
two in push-pull. It will be obvious that
here is the nucleus of an excellent five-
metre ’phone rig. Suppressor modulation
can be used nicely. The complete station
now in use by the writer follows this
exciter by two Eimac 35Ts in push-pull,
with 800 volts on the plates. The output
is very considerable, yet, listening to
the keyed signal on a monitor, it is T 8
and rock-steady. R.C.A. 801’s
would give excellent results in
place of the 3STs, which are not
now obtainable under the tariff
rulings. Note that in the 802
stage the rotors of the split stator
40-40mmfd. plate tuning conden-
sers are not grounded. The con-
densers are used as a series-gap
tuner.
Coil data are:
Ll.—Eight turns of 12-gauge copper
wire, lin. inside diameter, spaced
slightly (tap at II turns from
ground).
L 2 turns of 12-gauge copper
wire, lin. inside diameter, spaced 3-16th
inch between turns.
L3.—Five turns of 12-gauge copper wire, -)in.
inside diameter, spaced |in. between turns.
All other values are indicated. The
high-power final in the writer’s case is
link-coupled to this exciter by a single
turn loop at each end. The only difficult
adjustment in the whole outfit is the
cathode tap on the 6L6 oscillator coil.
This will need to be juggled about until
the oscillator works smoothly over the
condenser range at around 60ma. At
350 volts on the plate of the 6L6 the
oscillator screen should not exceed 250
volts.
D.B.K.
Amateur-radio Chatter.
Gradually the ultra-short-wave men are
renewing activity on five metres in the
Sydney district, and it is obvious from
correspondence centred on hopes of five-
metre DX that in inter-State locations
there are many stations active. The
writer has been testing various radiating
systems during the last week, and finds
that for propagation of a well-“beamed”
signal for local communication up to
100 miles or so the system illustrated in
the diagram can be heartily recom-
mended. This was the type used with the
old “long-lines” oscillator of two years
ago, and, though it employs no reflectors
in the real sense, it gives a remarkable
“endwise” lift in signal strength. One of
these aerials was installed indoors ’ in
1935 at Mosman (N.S.W.), and with
a small five-watt modulated oscil-
lator the signal was never less than R 8
at Hazelbrook (Blue Mountains), 50-
odd miles distant. Using a similar ex-
ternal system at the writer’s Waverley
location, it was found possible to put
R 7 telephony to the western side of
Mount Victoria.
The construction of the aerial is quite
simple, and, provided the lengths of each
dipole are cut correctly for the particu-
lar frequency, no trouble should be ex-
perienced. The important point for
transmission is that the feeder line must
be coupled to the transmitter at a point
of low R.F. potential. With a push-pull
oscillator or push-pull final tank stage, the
line is therefore coupled by a single turn
loop around the centre of the tank. Al-
ternative coupling can be made by tap-
ping direct on either side of the high-
tension connection at the centre of the
tank. In this case, .002 feedline conden-
sers should be used to keep high voltage
off the aerial. For reception, the line
terminates at a small tuned circuit (five
turns 14 copper, lin. diameter, tuned by
a five-plate midget), and a small coupling
condenser to the grid input circuit of
the receiver is tapped to the coil at the
most suitable point, this being deter-
mined by trial on a signal. The dipoles
themselves should be of heavy-gauge
copper wire for constancy’s sake, and
brass or hard-drawn copper tubing can
be employed with advantage, depending
upon the method of support. The feeder
line is of any convenient length, and is
made up of 18 V.I.R. cable, spaced three
inches by hardwood spreaders impreg-
nated with wax.
Dipole lengths and spacing for fre-
quency in the five-metre band are as fol-
lows :
Freq. Wave-length Radiator Spacing,
in Me. (Metres) Length A. SI.
56 5.357 Bft. 4in. Bft. 9in.
57 5.263 Bft. 2|in. Bft. l\m.
58 5.127 Bft. Bft. s|in.
59 5.085 7ft. 11 in. Bft. 4in.
60 5.0 7ft. 9in. Bft. 2|in.
Although these dipole lengths are cor-
rect for an aerial free in space, the load-
ing effect of the twisted line between the
two must be considered. Therefore on
actual resonance tests it will be found
that the dipoles will need to be about
95 p.c. of the stated length.
The method of connecting the twisted
line between the two is of importance.
The top dipole on one side connects to
the bottom dipole on the opposite side,
and vice versa. The two complete radi-
ators are out of phase, and thus give
“end-fire” directivity. In other words,
the two aerials are used in line with the
direction along which is it desired to
work. Actually this system is a good
all-round radiator, but the gain at a dis-
tance with correct directivity is very
noticeable. The new one just completed
at the writer’s station is made on a girder-
work triatic of lath wood, holding |in.
brass tubing on ceramic stand-offs. This
is quite light, yet fairly rigid, and is easily
swung around on a rotatable base.
Several stations are active in Sydney,
and VK2UV reports hearing VK4FL at
7 p.m. Sydney time. VK4AP is almost
ready to keep special schedules for the
south. The writer has been testing the
resistance-coupled superhet, and although
this can be made to perform very well it
has limitations. The first I.F. stage is
likely to rectify, with the result that the
local broadcasting station provides an
unwanted background. The next move
is a comprehensive superhet with 5000 kc.
I.F.Ts. and beat oscillator.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
New Amplion Condensers.
Amplion paper condensers are con-
structed by winding together alternate
layers of insulating paper and metallic
foil. After winding, the roll is placed in
a stiff paper tube container with tinned
copper leads projecting through the sides.
The whole is then vacuum-impregnated
with a special compound and sealed at
both ends.
Tubular condensers above o.2mfd.
capacity are wound with aluminium foil;
those below that value with tinfoil. The
difficulty of obtaining a contact of low
resistance between the aluminium foil
and the connecting leads has been over-
come by the use of a ring connector to
which the connecting leads are attached.
This provides a solid mechanical job
which will not depart from its low elec-
trical contact resistance even under the
most trying conditions of vibration. At
a frequency of 15mc. (20 metres) the
equivalent resistance of the o.osmfd. con-
densers is only 0.04 ohms. Each con-
denser is thoroughly tested for capacity,
high voltage breakdown and insulation
resistance.
Amplion tubular condensers are rated
at 350 volts D.C. working, as the modern
radio set does not employ paper con-
densers at any points higher in potential
than 300 volts, and even in these few
cases only by a few volts.
The most important points in a radio
set where paper condensers are used are:
Plate, screen and cathode bypass, A.V.C.
bypass, coupling condenser in resistance-
coupled amplifier stage, and volume con-
trol. Condensers of low-power factor ( i.e .,
low R.F. resistance) and of extremely
high insulation resistance are called for,
and these requirements are ideally met by
Amplion condensers.
New Philips Valves.
A diagrammatical explanation of the
internal construction of the new Philips
6.3-volt valves:
(1) Top contact (control grid
No. 4); (2) lead-in insulator for the
control-grid connection (grid 4);
(3) glass bulb; (4) internal connec-
tion to grid 4; (5) lock for securing
the mica centring disc; (6) flexible mica centring
disc; (7) split in mica disc, giving enough flexi-
bility to fit contour of inside bulb; (8) metal
coating; (9) support for plate; (10) mica disc
for spacing the electrode supports; (11) sup-
port for grid 3 ; (12) support for grid 1; (13)
top of cathode; (14) support for grid 6; (15)
metal disc for reinforcing the mica disc men-
tioned under 10; (16) support for mica centring
disc; (17) grid 1; (18) grid 2; (19) grid 3; (20)
grid 4; (21) grid 5; (22) grid 6; (23) plate; (24)
support for grid 2; (25) heater with insulator ;
(26) support for grid 4; (27) emitting layer on
cathode; (28) support for grid 6; (29) lock
for securing electrode structure; (30) support
for electrode structure; (31) special layer of sur-
face insulation; (32) heater; (33) lock for secur-
ing filament to connecting wire; (34) glass in-
sulator; (35) connection to grid 6; (36) con-
nection to grid 2; (37) connection to filament;
(38) connection to grid 1; (39) connection to
grids 3 and 5; (40) connection to plate; (41)
connection to metal coat; (42) Philips “P”-type
valve base; (43) locator for determining position
of valve in socket; (44) air-gap to prevent R.F.
losses; (45) silverplated side contacts on valve
base.
T. Spencer, of the Melbourne branch
of A.W.A., who has been appointed
manager of station 2CH, has had a wide
experience in the entertainment business
and he served in Gallipoli, Egypt and
France.
Radio Question Box.
Where can I obtain a cheap portable two-
valve set that would give fair speaker recep-
tion ? Must be suitable for a camp, with not
100 much weight in the way of batteries— 49l.
Try Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place,
Sydney. Speaker reception from two valves is
expecting rather too much from a portable.


••SILVER
EDGE”
RfuAa>fc&>
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING!
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
HERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
1 does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS ”
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTDLONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V C.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . • Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it-
FROM “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
The Steering Colimn.
CLUTCH FAULTS—WHERE TO LOOK.
BY FRED BERRY.
AHIGH standard of efficiency has been reached in modern
clutch design; still, this all-important part of the car gets
the hardest work of all.
If properly used the modern clutch
gives very little trouble (says a writer in
“Practical Motorist”), but still one is
likely to experience such inherent faults
as the development of fierceness and slip.
Gear-changing becomes very difficult
with a fierce clutch, as the driven load
is taken up suddenly instead of gradu-
ally. Often this is the prelude to back-
axle drive trouble, as it causes undue
pressure on the bevel pinion and sets up
wear on teeth and ball bearings. As
ball and thrust show wear, the meshing
of the teeth becomes incorrect. Few
modern cars suffer from fierce clutches;
if one does, the remedy is to ease the
tension on the springs pressing the clutch
plates together.
The illustration shows a typical clutch
with the various adjustments. Easing
off the tension for fierceness is done
generally by removing the cover and ad-
justing the locknuts and nuts A and B at
the rear of the springs. There are
usually three sets, and it is important
that each should be adjusted as nearly as
possible to the same pressure.
A slipping clutch is a more serious
and troublesome matter. In many cases,
a thoughtless driver is responsible for
this fault showing up. Quite uncon-
sciously a driver may keep his foot on
the clutch pedal for long periods. This
is usually accompanied by a certain
amount of pressure which may actually
cause the clutch to slip. In time, the slip
becomes real instead of artificial.
Wear, resulting in slip, can be set up
by a too gradual disengagement of the
clutch when gear changing. The slip-
ping sets up heat, and the surfaces of
the linings or discs become glazed. In-
dications of clutch wear are evidenced by
a dragging motion when taking up the load
after changing gear and a hesitation in
picking up the drive, with a tendency
for the engine to accelerate without
speeding up the car. If this gets really
bad, heat will develop, and the warning
is usually an odor of burnt oil. Need-
less to say, such a warning should never
be ignored, and the first opportunity
should be taken to make the necessary
adjustment
Lubrication.
Starvation of oil on the spigot bear-
ing C, on which the central member of
the clutch revolves when disengaged, may
be responsible for the clutch continuing
to drive the shaft, so making changing
up very hard. Although this bearing
should be kept well lubricated, this must
not be overdone. With over-oiling, the
lubricant may be flung out by centri-
fugal action, and may
settle on the clutch linings
D and E. The oil will
cause slip, will burn and
will smell. Burnt oil is
usually a sure sign of
clutch slip, and if con-
tinuous may mean the re-
newal of clutch linings in
the end. This necessity
may be avoided by swift
attention in the way of
sousing the clutch with
petrol whilst the pedal is
held down (clutch dis-
engaged) and the engine turned
(J round by the starting handle. It
Y can be held open by a piece of
—' wood of suitable length between the
pedal and the seat so that the
petrol can evaporate. The best method
of application is to squirt the petrol in
between the plates with a syringe. Make
sure, afterwards that the spigot C is well
lubricated, as the petrol may have
washed away some of the lubricant here.
Linings.
Clutch slip may be due also to the
disengaging levers F not having sufficient
room to move back when the linings are
worn. This prevents the plates being
forced into firm contact with each other
by the springs G. The springs should be
adjusted by the nuts and end screws
H, and locked by the nuts J. Adjustment
here varies according to the design of
the clutch.
Another reason for clutch slip may be
the holding back of the pedal, when the
fabric has worn, because of the pedal
coming into contact with a floorboard
before the clutch is properly engaged.
There should always be at least an inch
of free pedal movement before the plates
begin to separate. If there is not this
free movement, the pedal or the three
levers should be adjusted until all are
even a little loose when the clutch is
fully engaged. To test this, open the
clutch inspection cover and- feel the
levers. All should be loose and free, to-
gether with the clutch pedal when the
clutch is engaged. If they are not, wear
of the clutch linings and slipping will
continue until matters get increasingly
worse. In due. course the engine may
not pull the car in top gear, although the
response may be evident in a low gear.
The fitting of new linings is a job for
the service station normally, and this
should be done as soon as pedal and
lever adjustment gives no result. If any
obstruction holds up the clutch pedal it
should be removed, but this is a sign
that so much wear has occurred that disc
renewal is advisable or even necessary.
In some clutches there is an adjust-
ment between pedal lever and the lever
operating on the ball thrust. The illus-
tration is also an example of this. The
clutch pedal K is an oscillating fit on the
shaft L, and a double dog M is clamped
to L. This has two abutment pieces N
and O, through which are screwed ad-
justable screws P and Q respectively.
These are locked in position by the nuts
R and S. By means of these the clutch
pedal can be set relatively to the clutch
disengaging lever on the same shaft, so
that the pedal clears any obstruction
when the clutch is disengaged, and so
prevents the clutch from being held partly
engaged by the clutch pedal coming back
on an obstruction. The bolt and nut T
should not be interfered with, as they
hold the double dog firmly to the with-
drawal shaft L. The splined end of the
gear shaft U, which carries the central
plate V on the sliding boss W, should
be lubricated with fairly thin oil. The
ball thrust bearing Y should also be kept
lubricated. This bearing also slides along
shaft W, and should be oiled similarly.
A Road Turning Test.
Turning on a road with a steep camber
and a width of 25ft., though not easy,
can be done with certainty even with
a large car or one with a bad lock if this
sequence of operations is followed:
(1) With the gear lever in first speed
let the clutch in gently until the car
begins to move, and with the steering
wheel turned to full lock cross the road
at a moderate speed.
(2) As the opposite kerb is approached
the brake is applied gently and the clutch
freed. Before the car stops rolling turn
the steering wheel to the opposite lock
in the last three feet, and stop the car
within a foot or so of the kerb.
(3) Apply the hand brake, releasing the
foot from the foot-brake pedal but not
the clutch, and move the gear lever into
reverse.
(4) Engage the clutch slowly, and when
it bites accelerate slightly, releasing the
hand brake at the same time. Turn the
steering wheel over full according to the
direction required (front wheels to the
left if the tail is to swing left). Reverse
slowly.
(5) Before reaching the opposite kerb
tip the clutch and engage the brake with
steady pressure, turning the steering
Snowing the three arecnons to take when
turning in a narrow road.
wheel in the opposite direction during the
last two feet, stopping about one foot
short of the kerb.
(6) Lift the foot from the brake, ap-
plying the hand brake, and change the
gear lever into first, ready to move off
again in the forward direction.
(7) Engage the clutch smoothly, with
enough acceleration to move the car from
the camber. Release the hand brake
about the same time, and turn the wheel
hard in the required direction. When the
car is off the camber and on the move
decrease acceleration as needed and pro-
ceed steadily.
These directions may appear involved,
but actually they are quite simple, and a
little practice will show how the
turning can be made without a hitch.
It should be done steadily.
The Olympia Motor Show.
The thirtieth International Motor-car
Show just closed at Olympia, London, is
reported to have been the most successful
exhibition of cars yet held. Some years
ago the Paris Motor Show was looked
upon as the leading event of its kind in
the world, but Olympia now occupies
premier position as. regards variety and
international character of exhibits. At
the 1936 Olympia Show 30 British and
24 American and Continental car manu-
facturers exhibited, and orders for nearly
400,000 cars were placed with British
manufacturers. Cars to the value of
approximately £50,000,000 were sold
during the first week of the show, and it
was predicted that sales altogether would
exceed £80,000,000. The average horse-
power of cars exhibited was nearly 21,
as against 16 last year.
Auto Comment.
The fact that broken yellow guide lines
may be crossed by motor vehicles and
that unbroken yellow lines should not
will be news to most motorists. Accord-
ing to the R.A.C.A., this is merely a
police custom, not a law.
* * * *
“D.-P.8.”: A few years ago motorists
when buying a new car had little
need to give a thought to the dimensions
of their garage, but not so to-day, for
the overall length of many cars has in-
creased considerably. Before the advent
of the streamlined car one could usually
size up its length by the wheelbase
figures, but now the fashion of putting
grids in front of the radiator, the universal
adoption of bumper bars, fore and aft,
and the vogue of long tails have vastly
extended the overall length. The wheel-
bases of many of the-latest cars on the
Australian market range up to about 10
feet, but the overall length may be up-
wards of 16 feet. The man who to-day
contemplates having a home garage built
needs to envision a building about 20 feet
long if he intends driving a large-size car.
The owner-driver who likes to do a bit
of work on his machine should endeavor
to have at least a clear three feet all
round his car.
* * * *
“F.D.”: At a show in Gloucestershire
(Eng.) spectators were asked to guess the
speed of a car being driven round a ring.
The guesses were anything between 19
and 45 m.p.h. Actually, the speed was
19 m.p.h. Thus does the balance lie in
disfavor of the motorist in the police
court, for estimates far wide of the cor-
rect speed may come from people the
Court would assume to be “competent
witnesses.”
Motor Industry Progress.
An idea of the tremendous outlay in-
volved in modernising a big motor-manu-
facturing plant is provided in figures pub-
lished by Buicks. Two years ago
£3,000,000 was allocated by General
Motors for carrying out production and
factory improvements at its Buick
plant. Now an additional appropriation
of £2,900,000 is to be spent on the same
plant. Thus in about two years nearly
£6,000,000 has been spent to keep
machinery, tools, etc., in step with
modern production. Out of the last
appropriation only £300,000 is to be spent
on new factory buildings ; the balance,
£2,600,000, goes into new machinery, etc.
Practically the same thing goes on, year
after year, in all big motor plants—
expenditure that has to be faced to keep
production competitive and abreast ot
the times.


ë
The Worlds Best
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
u/
Ivfrpyn'Q
pajsajajui A/uo u/e r
that's why I pay
more For VALVOLINE
Experience has shown me the
economy of quality.
I value my car as an investment,
that's why I specify Valvoline, the
sealed lubricating oil . . . sold
only in tamper proof tins as a pro-
tection against adulteration, dirt and
short measure. Ask your garage-
man.'*
o
SEALED MOTOR OILS
AND GREASES
ADV.OF J.CARRIGAN. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE AND THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
Australian Motor-bodies.
The opening of John McGrath Ltd. s
new motor-body works in Sydney pro-
vides an illustration of change and pro-
gress. A few years ago the all-steel
motor-car body was a dream of auto-
motive technologists; now it is almost
standard throughout the world. Apart
from the “safety” features of the steel
body, there is the important factor of
time, for, with the presses now used
for fashioning steel plates into the sweep-
ing lines of the modern sedan, a beauti-
ful body can be moulded and finished
in almost a matter of hours, as against
months with the old type hand-fashioned
and coach-painted sedan body. Progress
of the Australian motor-body industry
has been such that it can now be
claimed for the Australian product that,
as far as the standard of work and finish
is concerned, it is at least the equal of
those manufactured overseas. The
McGrath plant has a capacity of 7000
bodies a year, an output that should go
far towards satisfying the demands of
chassis importers, though the “Dunlop-
Perdriau Bulletin” predicts that from
48,000 to 50,000 bodies will be required
during the current financial year.
Motor Oddities.
“Tasma, Jun.”: A friend travelling to
Launceston recently noticed a road-
repairer at work ; his barrow was on one
side of the road, and he was shovelling
earth on the opposite side. Another car
approached, and the workman dropped
the shovel and stepped further back to
allow the two cars to pass. One car
grazed the barrow ; my friend struck the
shovel, which bounced into the air and
sailed back over the car. Immediately
behind, a third car was travelling. The
driver of this, seeing the shovel suddenly
coming in his direction, involuntarily
drew back in his seat, lost control of the
car and cannoned violently into the back
of the other bus. The occupants of that
car were quite unaware of his presence
until the collision occurred, and the
whole thing made a pretty (if somewhat
costly) mix-up.
* * * *
“Mail Car”; A shearing contractor’s
lorry travelling from Richmond (n.-w.
Q.) broke the composition cam on the
make-and-break arm of the distributor.
Time was precious (sheep were in the
yards waiting to be shorn), so Ted Har-
rington, the shed expert, improvised a
cam from the bone handle of a tooth-
brush, and secured it to the arm with
two copper wires. The repair lasted the
50 miles to the job, and upon inspec-
tion showed practically no signs of wear.
* * *
“Koi Hai”: Driving through Sydney’s
suburb of Ashfield, I saw a sedan car
of mature vintage standing by the kerb
with a poster bearing the legend “Think
and Act. Safety First” pasted right over the
rear glass. There wasn’t a chink through
which traffic in rear could be glimpsed.
Cure Wheel Wobble.
To eliminate unnecessary wheel
wobble” the R.A.C.A. advises motorists
to see that their car wheels are perfectly
balanced after having been repaired. The
insertion of a temporary sleeve or vul-
canising tyres on one side only tends to
throw a wheel off its balance and cause
a “wobble” that may be attributed to
a more serious and complicated cause.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
X.Z. (Rotorua, M.L.). —(1) I am considering
buying one of three cars named. In what order
would you place them for ordinary use, doing,
say, 10,000 miles per year, considering the
mechanical side only, with particular regard to
cylinder wear? (2) Would the steel pistons in
No. 1 give better service than the aluminium
alloy types ?
(1) Same order as quoted, 1,2, 3. (2) Not
necessarily. Durability is more a matter of
lubrication than cylinder material.
* * * *
M. (Wangaratta, Vic.). —(1) I am buying
a light sedan car, priced around £3OO, and suit-
able for conversion to camping body for
country use. Any points, good and bad, about
the enumerated makes under A (1, 2,3, 4) and
B (1, 2, 3)? (2) Is there much to be gained
(except greater comfort) in giving extra money
for B? (3) Any difference in price in N.S.W.
and Vic. ?
(1) For the purpose suggested, No. 1 of B
is recommended, being considered in the lighter
class owing to its wheelbase. (2) There is little
to choose between B 2 and 1 in performance,
save that No. 1 has a little more reserve power.
Over the types mentioned under A, B 1 and 2
are preferable for your purpose. (3) No.
* * * *
N. (Parkes, N.S.W.). —I wish to obtain
parts for an old 13-16 -h.p. N.A.G. car, having
two of these ancients in constant use, giving
good service. If 1 could get a rearaxle pinion
the rest of the old job would suit my require-
ments for years. Any likely supplier known ?
Best plan is to put an ad. in the daily press
columns devoted to such needs. The people
who held the agency in 1912 might be able to
advise.
* * * H=
D.A.R. (Warwick, Q.) writes: I have cured
oil trouble in my car of the 1930 vintage,
and details may help other readers. Qn remov-
ing the manifolds it could be seen that the oil
was being drawn into the cylinders up the
intake-valve guides, as each port had a standing
base level of oil. I renewed the intake valves
and guides; each piston carrying Brico rings,
one standard slotted oil, one oilscraper and
one compression. I also had the pistons re-
lieved just below the oil ring, and provided
a series of holes with lead ducts to dispense
with the back flow. On test this proved about
80 p.c. efficient. The pistons were again drawn
and the rings changed for two compression and
one Maxigroove per piston, and the squirt holes
in the big ends were solder-sweated. That
proved fully satisfactory.
Wants.
To buy in Sydney Austin Seven tourer in
good order, up to £5O; £l5 down, 15s. weekly.
—3591.
PERFORMANCE DATA OF CARS TESTED OVER "BULLETIN” COURSE.
1936 Series.


Cbe mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Pape
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
The Long White Cloud
Economy Experts
They are galloping in all directions
under the stimulus of Maoriland’s Labor
politics.
B. E. Murphy (Wellington) was first
away. He was deliciously vague in the
London “Daily Telegraph” on Labor’s
intention of giving the farmers a reason-
able income by guaranteeing prices.
R. M. Campbell, one of his students,
whom the. previous M.L. Government
' had sent to London with Coates as eco-
nomic adviser, appeared in the same
paper as the exponent of Labor’s mar-
keting plans.
Canterbury’s Professor Tocker went off
on another tack: “No responsible per-
son, knowing the facts of industry to-
day, could accept the figure the workers
suggest' as the basic wage, for M.L.,” he
told the Arbitration Court.
Then Professor Belshaw (Auckland), in
a pamphlet published by the Institute of
Pacific Relations, declares that the suc-
cess of present experiments in economic
control depends less on the soundness of
underlying theories than on personnel
and methods of organisation!
Economy experts are as hard to follow
as racehorses.
“D.L.”: Maoriland is hospitably en-
tertaining the Englishwoman excluded
from Australia, where Love shan’t laugh
at locksmiths if Minister Tom Paterson
can help it. The Labor Government
went out of its way to be courteous to
Beauty in distress. Maoriland apprecia-
tion of its chivalry is in no way lessened
by the reflection that it will do the tour-
ist trade no harm. There is a chance
here for someone to write a limerick
rivalling “Q.’s” on Dick Seddon: —
Said Mr. R. J. Seddon,
Beholding Armageddon:
“H’m, who supplies
The mutton pies
The combatants are fed on?”
:|; * ❖ ❖
Walter De La Mare, the poet, is com-
ing out to Maoriland to escape the
English winter, which served him badly
at the beginning of this year. At 62, De
La Mare would pass for a man many
years younger than that. His home at
Taplow, 40 miles out of London, is a
rallying spot for all kinds of poetic pil-
grims. Pretty well every sort of sub-
ject is discussed there on Sunday after-
noons. But there seems to be a tacit
bar on poetry, for De La Mare takes
his day off as earnestly as a trade-
unionist. His talk shows that he. keeps
intelligent eyes on Europe and wary
one on the theories of economists. All
who pass through the front door of
Hill House are asked to sign their names
in a vellum visitors’ book.
* * * *
“Avon”: Anyone who knows Robert
Semple, Maoriland’s Minister of Public
Works, will appreciate the rugged inde-
pendence of his department’s attitude
towards foundation-stone-layers and first-
sod-turners. They do a job of work,
and the laborer is worthy of his hire.
So the other day, when the Governor,
Lord Galway, turned the first sod of a
scenic drive and trundled the lump across
the roadway in a wheelbarrow he wasn’t
given a golden shovel with a diamond-
encrusted handle or a mahogany barrow
with silver wheels. He used P.W.D.
appliances, and afterwards was handed
2s. sd. and asked to sign a voucher:
“Nature of service: Formation and
earth work. Particulars in full: To turn-
ing first sod and wheeling to bank,
2s. 6d.; less wages tax, Id. Claimant:
Viscount Galway, Government House,
Auckland.”
* $ $ $
“Beetle B.”: Tourists from the ends
of the earth who tread the golden sands
of Beetle Bay, Stewart Island, often ask
Maorilanders how the pretty little inlet
got its name. Rarely is their curiosity
satisfied, for the secret is known to very
few. Here it is revealed. “Look at that
enormous beetle,” exclaimed one of a
party of sightseers as they walked along
the bay a few years ago. It certainly
was the Queen Mary of all beetles, and
the amateur entomologist decided to
take, it to the mainland for identifica-
“You needn't Worry about my former wives —I soon got fed up with
THEM.”
tion. Into his tobacco-tin went the. giant
insect and on strolled the tourists. When
the journey ended at Oban the bug-
hunter opened the tin—and found that
he had smoked the beetle as well as the
tobacco!
* * * *
“Korero”: While excavating a trench
on Basin Reserve, Wellington’s chief
sports ground, workmen uncovered a
seam of peat. In the drained swamp
country of the Waikato, peat is no
novelty, and nearly every summer its
fires shroud the countryside with smoke.
Dry, hot weather allows the peat to
burn underground, and farmers lose
stock when the surface crust of a pad-
dock subsides unexpectedly to reveal
smouldering peat pits. In the earlier
days of settlement, a swamp must have
extended over part of Basin Reserve.
* * * *
“J.M.”: George Duncan, whom Min-
ister Nash left in Maoriland to direct
marketing aspects of the Government’s
guaranteed-price scheme, has the con-
fidence of most Taranaki cockies. A
practical accountant’, he was for a
number of years secretary of the Hawera
Co-op. and knows dairy-farming thor-
oughly. He believes the price-guarantee,
system will save dairy companies an
aggregate of £250,000 p.a. in interest,
commission and dairy-board levies.
Against these savings must be set the
cost of the Marketing Department itself
—and some Government ventures are
darned costly.
* * He He
“Kiwit”: Sheep returns for the year
ending in April show that Maorilanders
are again building up their flocks.
There was an increase of upwards
of a million —to 30,113,704. Ran-
gitikei in the north and Ashburton in the
south show the largest county increases ;
contrary to general belief, Southland has
a larger sheep population than Hawke's
Bay. Flocks average 1000 head per
owner. Holdings are much smaller than
in Australia.
He # * *
“Motu”: Acclimatisation societies
across the Tasman don’t need photo-
graphs to know that eels are thriving
(B. 21/10/’36). Every year they re-
lease trout fry in rivers and lakes, but
members are convinced that the eels en-
joy more than ever mature for the fly
fisherman. The Waihao River in Canter-
bury is regularly stocked by the Wai-
mate Acclimatisation Society. This year
eels are so plentiful in it that a trophy
is being offered for the heaviest bag
caught during an “eel drive.” A 27-
pounder was landed a few weeks ago.
* * * *
“Trim”: County dog-tax collectors
have never been popular with the
Maoris, whose villages abound in
mongrels. One Waikato county council
received a complaint from a neighboring
county that its collector was being
laughed at by a Maori village along the
boundary river. The complaining coun-
cil boasts an enthusiastic dog-tax collec-
tor, and the village is in his area ; but
when the Maoris see him coming they
round up their yapping curs and hurry
them across the river to the other county.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Unwarranted jealousies still
exist in the North and South Islands.
When Roberts Firth, Maoriland’s tourist
and publicity man in western America,
arranged a Los Angeles broadcast, some
South Island listeners complained that
their tourist attractions had been
neglected in favor of those in the North
Island. As far as the majority of over-
seas people are concerned, Cook Strait
scarcely exists. Comparatively speaking,
Maoriland distances are so small that
Americans and Australians are not likely
to miss South Island mountains when
they are only an hour or two away. The
overseas publicity men are doing their
job if they get people interested enough
to visit any part of Maoriland.
* * * *
“Xo”: Maoriland will lose one of its
oldest pubs when Wellington’s Central
Hotel is pulled down to make way for
an eight-storey insurance building. The
present Central dates back to the ’fifties,
when it was known as Nelson Inn or Ale
House ; in January, 1857, a Wellington
paper announced that alterations were
to be carried out and “good stabling”
would be available. The dining-room
still contains timber taken from St.
Andrew’s Scottish Church, erected in
1842, and used for those 1857 alterations.
* * * *
“M.”: Has Australian aviation any
eminently successful one-eyed pilots? J.
M. Buckeridge, recently appointed to the
staff of the Maoriland Controller of
Civil Aviation, was undeterred when he
lost an eye in a flying accident at Napier
in 1930. Before that smash he was asso-
ciated with the late Squadron-leader Mc-
Gregor in some of Maoriland’s early air-
mail flights, and after the accident he
disregarded contrary advices and resumed
flying. For the last five years he has
been instructor to the Wairarapa and
Ruahine Aero Club, with headquarters
at Masterton ; his pupils invariably figure
in aero-pageant prize lists. Jack Buck-
eridge was a Rugby Union forward in
1928-29, when he represented Canter-
bury ; he was then at university and
spending his spare time learning to fly.
* * * *
“Kingston”: When the radio stations
broadcast throughout Maoriland that
Jean Batten had “passed over New Ply-
mouth at 4.4 p.m.” it had one queer and
unexpected result —the telephone ex-
changes were temporarily clogged. Thou-
sands of people as soon as they heard
the news rushed to the ’phone to discuss
it with friends, and the “load” on all
the automatic exchanges was the heaviest
experienced since automatics were in-
stalled. The last time this happened in
M.L. was when the Armistice was an-
nounced in 1918, in the days of girl
telephone-operators.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
0 The Half-Million Pelmanists
WHAT was in the minds of the half-
million Pelmanists when they joined
the Institute? Probably nothing more
than is to be found in the mind of the reader
of this article. They sought means by
which, through developing and sharpening
their natural faculties, they could increase
their self-confidence; they wished to know
how to create interest within themselves, and
how to excite it in others; how to remember
quickly and with certainty, how to stimulate
that initiative whose peculiar province is
“taking advantage of opportunity,” how to
develop the imaginative faculty which sees
the opportunity before someone else robs
them of it.
The Personal Equation
/"'JNE of the half-million Pelmanists,
whose trouble is not uncommon, says:
“My efforts at early rising have been
crowned with success.” Another says:
The efficiency of my senses has been
wonderfully improved, my will-power has
been strengthened, and I have learned to
work with more method.” Yet another
says: I have made considerable progress
in my conversational efforts, which are now
a pleasure and a relaxation, instead of an
embarrassment. Others speak of passing
examinations, increased sales, developed
concentration, conquest of fear, and greater
fertility of ideas. The writers of these
letters are the kind of people with whom
you associate. They certainly have a dis-
tinction, *an enrichment of personality,”
which the polishing and pruning process of
Pelmanism gives, but this only makes
association with them more pleasant.
There are more than half a millian Pelmai
altogether. Of these over 35,000 have en>
with the Institute in Melbourne.
'> % H
Are All Minds Alike?
THE question may be asked: But are all
people and their minds alike? The
answer is “No,” but the natural laws which
govern the operations of their minds are the
same. The application to the special cir-
cumstances and needs of the pupil is the
business of the Pelman Institute, which
knows its work and does it thoroughly.
THE Pelman Institute sets out to make
the individual efficient—efficient in his
social relations as well as in business, like-
able in his companionships as well as
effective in the doing of his work. Its first
question, after enrolment, asks the pupil to
state specifically why he enrolled for the
Course. He is encouraged throughout the
Course to discuss his personal difficulties,
to ask questions as well as to answer them,
to get, in fact, as much as he can, not only
from the text-books, but also from the
individual service offered.
pELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that accord-
ing to the nature and the strength of the
individual’s habits of mind and will, so are
his personal efficiency and his standing with
his fellows. If these habits are slovenly he
will be ineffective personally; if they are
good he will be strong and successful.
Pelmanism develops the following attributes and
qualities:
Concentration Self-Confidence
Judgment Presence of Mind
Decision Organising Power
Will-Power Courage
And a Reliable Memory
for faces, names, figures, appointments, the
material of study, and useful data of every kind.
The development of these strong, positive, vital
qualities contributes to one’s earning capacity, and
makes it possible to live intelligently in the present
and build strongly for the future.
ĕ
The Pelman ' Institute is a
world-wide organisation of
40 years’ standing. Its head-
quarters are in London. The
Institute in Melbourne was
established 29 years ago.
Pelriianism may be mastered by
giving: to it half an hour a day
for about four months. There
are 15 lessons in the Course. It
is intensely interesting, and the
results begin to show within a
week. It is taught by post.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages,
post free. You can write us fully, or you can make just a bare
application by using or copying the form alongside. In any case, your
inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
for the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 11255.
TO THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House,
. 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy
of “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
.446
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
/mH^
iC
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
. *
\v
-°° <& «? *f''
V .*N
K
W
»
s
<>
4\ vv**
*X
«•*
v
<
X
w
v°;
0* /
p
,\0 6 o4 e
a?
0°
S c
o'
•• ..•• o'{


at
:
■S V"' ;
Wfi U t '
I - 3/ A
Jm
V:
■
M
A A/
\VB
V
•>' «a
a
&*»>./ f AS* V %
| r r '“if? *<';
"v
1
-
cl y
1 ,‘V-j
«2S
| ': . •
V
: j?s?*w . jL» v ** \ w'% 1
4 .? yvffla*
m
k N
3 M
4
*****.
\*
•:-
0
IV\
H V
' v *
a i ?* v ‘
/X -\ ■ /> „ 4r-r* L, „
/ * < / . \ Ly - J 8& * c\
4' '. -'"' - ;.-
0
©** .. m>
xl
5-> :<:«
»*wv*
. ■: .
;
• . •' ■
• •
Si
mm.
-: ' -
mmmrn
■
■
%«**»
S#£N
mm
y-
} ■,' iy .J <i. * ,
,;
wmm
>■
■.
*»’* *i t ;
$L ' ' '>
-* - -
■■ -n
IF' < ' .V-SEsS^
iSv ..
-
L^^ssesasssaw
Clear-toned Overseas Broadcasts
»"«■« oe,a "' bu " t
Dual-wave All-electric or Battery Receiver
Take a world-cruise whenever you like! Call in at the Paris Opera
House . . . run across and hear what America is doing ... be in
time for the King’s Coronation. Cross to Japan, listen to what the
East has to say. Visit Holland, Berlin, Moscow. Go Continental!
Be Cosmopolitan! Tour the world with a Tasma!
Voyaging by Tasma is LUXURY cruising. No wondering whether you’ll get the
place you want ... no delays ... no interruptions or interferences ... clear, full-
toned reception ALL THE TIME.
Why fight the ether with an ordinary short-wave receiver when you can enjoy every
thrill that’s on the air (short-wave or broadcast) with a Tasma?
All Tasma Receivers (and ONLY Tasma Receivers) have the amazing Ferro-Coil.
No jittering, no background hiss, no inter-station “clashing.” The transformers are
air-conditioned so that climate and weather make no difference to the perfect Tasma
reception. You get the famous Tasma Bandspread Dial . . . you get every new
development of modern radio science ... in cabinets you’ll be proud to own.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS, TOO.
Whether you live in the city or miles from a power line, you can tour the globe with
a Tasma. SEE them! HEAR them! They make all the world your neighbours!
There is a Tasma All-Wave Receiver at the price YOTJ want to pay ,
Ask your Tasma dealer to show you the complete range.
DISTRIBUTORS:
MCTOBIA: HABTLKYS I’TY.. LTD., 370 -
FLINDERS STREET., MELBOURNE.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
„ North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver J. Nilsen & Co., Ltd..
49, Kins William Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand Electric Equipment,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons, Ltd., 674 Hay
Street, Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Eremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bunbury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at Gympie, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosen Stengels Pty., Ltd.,
Ruth veil Street. Toowoomba,
Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
gJafana
DUAL-WAVE RECEIVERS
m
l !
K
m
TASMA MODEJLS 333 anil 335
in the nevv and beautiful
Masefield Cabinet. These si.v-
valve DUAL-WAVE Receivers
embody the FERRO-COIE
air-conditioned transformers,
floodlit bandspread dial.,
velvet tuning drive and con-
tinuously variable tone
control. Heavy duty com-
ponents throughout; noise
suppressor; all vital parts
impregnated against humidity.
Price (for Model 335), £37/10/-.
Por Model 335, BATTERY
operated, £43/10/- (slightly
higher outside N.S.W.).
I
-
Radiogram
Cabinet.
THE TASMA “RADIOGRAM.”
A beautifully constructed
Combination Receiver offered
for the first time in eight
models and three types—A.C..
A.C./D.C. and Battery. Motors:
A.C., A-C./D.C. constant-speed-
Garrard with Pickup (as
used by the 8.8. C. and major
broadcasting stations). Bat-
tery' Models have double-
spring motors. Features:
Automatic Noise Free Volume
Control; Bandspread Dial;
Air Conditioned Transformers;
Ferro-Coil, etc.
Prices from 41 guineas.
Slightly higher outside New
South Wales.
u
mm
TASMA MODEL 310 is now
featured in the perfect crafts-
manship of the new Gilbert
Cabinet. This Five-valve
Dual-wave Receiver is BAT-
TERY operated and is one of
the most effective and attrac-
tive sets produced by Tasma
for rural use. The remark-
ably low battery consumption
of the Tasma 310 comes as a
distinct surprise to those ex-
periencing it for the first
time.
Price, £33/19/6 (slightly higher
outside X.SAV.). If in
Lawrenee Cabinet . £35/10 V.
TASMA MODELS 350, 365
and 400. Battery Operated
Dual-wave Receivers in the
graceful new Lawrence
Cabinet. Tasma 350 is a six-
valve receiver; 365 has five
valves and Tasma 400 has five
valves also. These receivers
feature Ferro-Coll and every
famous Tasma development.
Perfect world-wide reception
for the country listener.
Prices: Tasma 350, £3l/15/-;
Tasma 365, £29/15/-; Tasma
100, £35/10/- (slightly higher
outside N.S.W.).
