

v v_ ■ •m * >
. . . plus the power
M&itol
Power to start instantly, pins power to keep going at peak engine revolutions—
regardless of temperature and driving conditions—this is the reason why
sales of Atlantic Petrol are going up and up! This is the twofold merit
that has swept Atlantic Petrol to the head of its price group-—and
kept it there! . ............
Why not change to Atlantic Petrol yourself? Remembers
nothing beats it in its price field! ........
The only way to get still greater performance with
equal star lability (especially in high compression
cars) is to use Atlantic Elhyl 9 the A.l knockless
fuel .
ATLANTIC
PETROL
Lr?.4*-36
The Bulletin
The Prior Memorial Prize Award
VoL 57.—N0. 2945.
Wednesday, July 22, 1936.
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
sdfs
roam
Usama
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
WO Russell Street, Melbourne.
_.c. CLT HEKE AX!) ' MAIL
Please send, ■without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address • • -
».B. 336
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late,
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for'the Third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application; will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain aU
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants', and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will'be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
JUDGING
THE MSS.
At the time this
page goes to press
—somewhat i n
advance of the
rest of The But -
ni in -judging for the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, 1936, is almost com-
pleted. All the MSS. have been
examined, and it will be possible to
announce the winner elsewhere in this
week’s Bulletin.
It is proposed to announce the winner
only. Last year a selection of what the
judges considered were MSS. of merit
was published; the idea was that this
Would be encouraging to the writers and
approved by them. One or two competi-
tors, however, thought otherwise. They
felt that to be merely “commended” was
damaging to their reputations or likely
to prejudice them with publishers. There
is probably something in this. At any
rate, the objection has been raised, and
so the winner only will be given. If
other entries are secured for serial publi-
cation that will, no doubt, be mentioned
subsequently.
If the list were being given it would
divide itself simply into four parts; first,
the winner ; then, extraordinarily close to
it, the MS. which makes it seem at the
moment of writing extremely hard to de-
cide between these two splendid entries;
then, some distance away, two or three
MSS. together ; and then, further still,
perhaps a dozen of merit, some of these
certainly publishable.
Whichever of the two outstanding
MSS. is selected, it will be worthy of the
Prize. Both are notable pieces of writ-
ing, of exceptional quality; each; what
the Prize was established to foster,- a
positive contribution to our literature.
Accidental
Reputations
The accidental
nature of many
literary reputa-
tions is a con-
stant inducement
to wonder. The outstanding case is
that of John Ihglesant, the only volume
at hand when Gladstone was being pic-
tured and so commandeered to aid in
creating the right pose for the great man.
When by some freak the title of the book
was distinct in the published portrait a
scramble for John Inglesant began.
Still nearer our lime is The Scarlet
Pimpernel , which Baroness Orczy has
revealed she sent to ten publishers, and
for which, in despair, she came near
accepting £3O. Even the fact that the
book was about to be produced as a
play failed to stir the publishers; all the
author was told was that if the play did
not fail too badly the novel might be
worth considering again. Finally a pub-
lisher who admitted that he always sent
the work of new writers off to his aged
mother in the country for her opinion
determined to accept the book, and thus
became the richer by many thousand
pounds, for it is still selling handsomely.
The process continues—Noel Coward’s
first play accepted only owing to the
accident that it found its way into a suit-
case of a producer about to leave > Lon-
don for a week-end ; Thornton Wilder’s
Bridge of San Inns Rey passed oyer
in the United States and saved by
an enthusiastic notice of John Gals-
worthy; Mary Webb denied recognition
until too late. ,
These things, pointing to the curiously
haphazard way in which authors with
the greatest potential ability as enter-
tainers are treated by their public, are
no more remarkable than the treatment
of Sir William Watson, w'ho died poor
and neglected, causing John Drinkwater
to protest that it was “unworthy of Eng-
land’s people to have taken so little note
in his later years of one who added
something that was finely memorable
... .to her achievement in poetry.” A
life devoted to literature brought Watson
a knighthood, but also the need of a
testimonial, fund to support life itself in
his declining years.
Literature, in fact, usually does not
pay its practitioners highly. Remember-
ing that Fielding sought to sell Tom
Jones for £25, and that Goldsmith was
satisfied with £6O (which Johnson ob-
tained for him) for The Vicar of Wake-
field, we complacently compare these
figures with the enormous earnings of
established authors to-day. But it is not
long since Joseph Hergesheimer, an
established author whose new work com-
mands high prices, confessed that one
of his books had never earned him more
than £3 a year. For every Shaw, Wells
or Galsworthy there are thousands of
stragglers, some of them of extraordi-
nary merit. Prominent among these are
the poets. A high percentage of English
poets find their way on to the Civil List.
That they do so is evidence that someone’
in the nation cares for them, but that
they are forced to recruit their earnings
in this way is poor testimony to the
people’s care for their heritage of verse.
Naturally there is a mean between
Jhose best-sellers to which no one returns
(who to-day reads All Quiet on the
Western Front or that Bengal Lancer of
which Squire said that its author “walked
effortlessly into a high place in litera-
ture”?) and the supreme products of our
age which will be sought by generations
yet unborn because of their enduring
virtues. In this intermediate territory lies
the vast mass of “good” books, the litera-
ture which is competent and yet falls
short of distinction, which lacks the novel
twist or journalistic timeliness. It is
in this field that fate plays its most extra-
ordinary tricks, elevating some quiet and
unexpectant journeyman to the dizzy
heights of the hundred-thousand circula-
tion and dropping him again into the
gloom of the man who has made one
success, he does not quite know how,
and is unable to repeat it. Here the
praise of the leading author can work
miracles. Arnold Bennett was an adept
at dropping the encouraging word;
Frank Swinnerton and Hugh Walpole
are others. This, indeed, has been our
biggest book-promotion practice.
But with all these things the fate of a
book which is not universal enough to
rally the great mass of readers to its sup-
port, which is obscure in style or ragged
in outline (such a novel as Jew Suss,
which narrowly escaped obscurity in
England), remains one of the most un-
predictable things. For all the industry
of the critics, their essential kindliness
to tlie competent, their anxiety to find
something to praise each week, there
remains the danger of obscurity. The
great mass of the people is not review-
reading by habit; and thus the most
effective advertisement that a book can
receive is similar to the most effective
advertisement that a play can receive—
the testimony of people who know it and
have liked it and urge other people to
submit to the experience. This fact
places an enormous value on the timeli-
ness of a book. Successful books, in
short, are journalistic in their appeal,
and there can be no more saddening
reflection for the competent novelist
than that he has published what
is certainly a best-seller of the future in
the psychologically wrong season.
Quentin Pope
Maxim
Gorky
The pen-name
whi c h Alexey
M a xirnovi tch
Peshkov adopted
indicates the
nature of his writing. Gorky means the
bitter one, and such was his work; the
product of the bitter reality of Russian
peasantry and that of the “little man in
the big cities.
There is among the early writings of
Gorky a volume of short stories by the
name of Ex-people ; it was among those
creatures who once were people that
Gorky, with his passionate love for
suffering humanity, found his literary
subject matter.
Maxim Gorky, born in Nizhni-Nov-
gorod—now called Gorky—in 1868, had
a writing life of more than 40 years. His
father, a poor upholsterer, died when the
writer was a child, and ‘Gorky spent his
early years with his maternal grand-
parents. He relates in My Childhood the
story of those years, when a sensitive
child was crushed ruthlessly by a despotic
old man.
At 14 Gorky began his life of wander-
ing. There are few trades to which young
Gorky did not put his hand, and this
period was marked by long tramping over
his native land. It was during his
Wanderings that he learned to know the
tramps .and aimless wanderers, those
“superfluous people” whom he loved best
to depict.
While working in Tiflis Gorky published
his first short story, “Makar Chudra,” in
1892.
Gorky proved, in his early writings, to
be the champion of the realistic novel.
His realism, however, is of a peculiar
kind ; with all the sordidness of Gorky’s
graphic description there is an indefinable
quality of romantic charm. To this early
period belongs his masterpiece Twenty-
six Men and a Girl. His play “The
Lower Depths” was a tremendous suc-
cess on the Russian and European stage.
Like all his work of this period, the play
is a curious blend of realism and
romanticism, which lends a peculiar sig-
nificance to the vast gallery of philoso-
phising tramps, thiefs, prostitutes and
other of Gorky’s characters. Foma
Gordeiev, published in 1899, is the best-
known book of his early period.
The turn of the century witnessed a
great change in Gorky’s writings. His
close association with the Social Demo-
cratic party of Russia, his active struggle
against the Tsarist regime, which caused
his arrest in 1901, gave a more defined
character to his work, which becomes
purposeful and didactic. Instead of the
romantic tramps, we find working people
of the industrial areas permeated with an
ideal and determined to overthrow the
Government. Mother, which appeared in
1905, the year of the unsuccessful revolu-
tion, is in this spirit.
Following that revolution Gorky wrote
his purposeful novels of social recon-
struction. Instead of the mystic “search
for God” which fills Russian literature
of that period, Gorky put forward the
idea of “building God”—by the people’s
faith and striving for social amelioration,
The novel A Confession is the story of a
plain man, seeking a religious solution
for the problems of life and, finally,
making the people his religious ideal.
At this time Gorky settled in Capri,
where he remained until shortly before
the war. His novels of that period are
mostly of a biographical nature. In My
Childhood, Amongst Strangers and My
Universities recur many of his old types
and characters, written of with intense
love for his native country. Gorky’s house
in Capri became the meeting place of
leading Russian revolutionaries. It was
Lenin’s appreciation of Gorky’s genius
that gave Gorky a'particular status after
the advent of the Soviets to power.
Although a socialist and fighter on the
side of the Bosheviks, Gorky did not
approve of much of the terror in the
earlier periods of war-communism. He
seemed to cultivate the cultural felics
from the olden days ; he was .greatly
instrumental in preserving many of the
art treasures and other valuable collec-
tions, and he intervened frequently on
behalf of writers and scientists who were
arrested by the Soviet authorities.
In the years which followed the suc-
cessful revolution Gorky published his
Literary Reminscences and Fragments
from My Diary. It is in these studies that
Gorky revealed himself as superb artist
and great master of human psychology,
analysing the tormented souls of some
of the greatest Russian writers and thus
helping us to understand better their
writings.
Several other great novels soon fol-
lowed. The Artomonov Business, trans-
lated into English as Degeneration, is a
family chronicle ; The Life of Klim Sam-
gin is a vast epic of the Russia of the
past forty years, painted on the back-
ground of Russia’s struggle for freedom.
This great work, three volumes of which
are rendered into English under the titles
The Bystander, Magnet and Other Fires,
enjoyed an immense popularity. This
work has sold, in the last five years, nine-
teen million copies. ‘ pc
• After several years of travelling abroad
Gorky settled in Russia in 1927 to be-
come the doyen of Soviet literature.
Gorky’s influence on the young genera-
tion of Soviet writers is immense ; he is,
in fact, the “godfather” of all of them.
Pilniak and Babel, Leonov and Ivanov,
and many others all made their first
appearance under his caring eye.
HIRSEN MUNZ.
More
Cliches
Does Gerald
Dillon (R.P,
8/7/’36) lash the
cliche as mightily
as he might have
done? Might he not have attacked a
few of his own phrases as well as those
mentioned by a previous writer? For
instance, Mr, Dillon uses the phrase
“needless redundancy.” Redundancy in
speech or writing is needless, so the
phrase itself contains the “needless re-
dundancy” needless. /
Then there is “pure jargon.” It would
be hard to find a definition of “impure
jargon,” the antonym phrase of this
familiar cliche. Jargon is a debased
form of speech, and therefore cannot be
pure. One could as well talk of “pure
impurity” or “impure purity.”
“From their very nature” is one of
those phrases which arc threatening to
become meaningless by repetition. It is
a phrase which the mind skips, just as it
skips another phrase used by the same
writer, “sickly genteelism,” We have all
read this latter phrase so many times
that it means less to us than does
“namby-pamby,” Genteel, as used by
the writer, is an ironic term, and the
irony, loses its cutting edge when coupled
with an anaauic term of abuse such as
sickly,
, The phrase “sickly genteelism” is ex-
tended by another, “perfectly nauseat-
ing.” Now, nauseating may be defined
as causing to reject food or to vomit.
Can one reject food perfectly, or even
vomit in a perfect manner? Either one
rejects food or one does not; either one
vomits or one does not. Perhaps one
could feel perfectly nauseated ; but to be
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVLKIISING”—AIways.
FAMOUS FOB LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store”
“While I Live Vll Grow ”
FINAL SALE BARGAINS FOR KEEN SHOPPERS!
ANTHONY -HORDERNS
■
mm
m
r - _ * ->•* - a
/ / /■;
M
m
4
I - 111
/ £
(W ,
V
v- * * M
mmm.
* < • ■•> ' * *
F-’-S
.
®
St
•'V
■
9BK
,?',■ j' •*
M.
mm
mm
a
::
■ ■ ""
,<
s . ®4<
i
i#fc fc&'l 1 W*?
.
i I
»v :
llliS:
M
raHk....! lil
■
1 I
i:'
m
■ ■■
i
* I
I.JJ
!■ | ■■i
■ I •■ :jmm
Kim
m
H ■
- ' ‘■•• : **i
v -0. -1 a\i • q
;,■•••
mm
i V
■I
79/3 Men’s Leather
Coats
69/6 MEN’S TWEED O’COATS
Warm, good-looking
Overcoats that will
give you seasons of
comfortable wear.
Smartly tailored in
new season’s Tweeds
i n double-breasted
form-fitting style. A
range of newest
designs in Grey
t'onings for selection.
Price 69/6.
34 a
Sale Price 34/9
df
A Leather Overcoat
gives protection
against wind and wet
weather, and will be
useful for years of
wear. Tailored from
selected hides'* that
will not crack or
peel. Double-
breasted style with
deep storm collar and full belt. Dependable
linings. Price .. 79/6. Sale Price .. 72/6
75 1- BEST QUALITY VENETIAN O'COATS
All fine points of high-class tailoring are incorporated in these
All Wool Venetian Cloth Overcoats. They are light weight
and useful all the year round. Single-breasted with Raglan
sleeves and finished with rich Art. Silk linings. Fawn,
Olive or Dark Grey tones. Price, each 757-
Sale Price, each 71/6
714
27/6 MEN’S WATERPROOF OILCOATS
Waterproof Oilcoats made in best quality heavyweight cloth. They
will not stick, are strong, and are strongly leather bound. Lengths,
48in. to 5 Sin. Walking style. Price . . 27/6. Sale Price . . 25/-
Riding style, butterfly back. Price .. . 30/-. Sale Price ... 27/6
25/-
26/6 and 30J-
SPORTS COATS
IS 7 -
At Left
The style, fit and work-
manship incorporated
in these Sports Coats
leave nothing to be
desired. Each coat is
I ixpertly tailored from
smart new season’s
materials. Comfortable
style with half belt at
back and patch pockets.
Dressy patterns in
Grey and Fawn tones.
Prices, each: 26/6, 30/-
Sale Price, each, 13 /-
30/- MEN’S
SPORTS TROUSERS
25 ; -
Here are Sports Trousers
made for plenty of hard
service. Best quality
Worsteds, yarn-dyed, are
the materials used, and the
style is comfortable and
well fitting. Latest sports
tops, side, fob and two
hip pockets are features.
Price, pair 307-
Sale Price, pair .... 25/-
25/- KHAKI TWIST
TROUSERS
Comfortable,
well cut
Trousers i n
heavyweight
All Wool Military Twist.
These trousers will stand
up to any amount of
tough wear, for work-
manship is strong and
pockets are of dependable
quality. Price, pair: 257-
Sale Price, pair ... 18/6
m
12/9 TROUSERS
Men's Trousers gM gM
made of strong T| T l&\
Cotton Vene- I I
tian Twists that M I j
are finely
woven and smart in appear-
ance. Comfortable styles with
side or cross pockets, cuff or
plain bottoms, and belt loops.
Khaki ' pockets and band
linings. Fawn, Olive and
Dark Grey. Price, pair, 1 2/9
Sale Price, pair 11/9
$ Men's Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
Limited, Sydney.
’Phone: M 2401, Postal Address:
Day and Night. Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


nauseated implies completeness—or, if
one prefers the term, perfection—already,
and needs no qualification.
Next we come to a reference to
“serious literature.” This is not among
the cardinal sins, for there is a worse
cliche often used to express the same
idea —“heavy literature.” The easiest
way of showing the redundancy included
in the phrase “serious literature” is by
talking of taking a course of “Serious
English Literature.” “Light literature” is
a necessary qualification, but “serious
literature” contains a redundancy, for,
for a work to be literature —except in ad-
vertisements, or in cant and genteel
phrases such as “pornographic literature”
—is at once for it to be “serious” in the
strange colloquial sense in which that
term means “good” literature.
Lastly, we must quarrel with the con-
cluding phrase “killed stonedead.” All
who carry an affection for the English
language have long hoped that this
phrase, ugly to eye and ear, would die
its own death, “killed stonedead.”
IAN MUDIE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
ALL that need be said about A. B.
(“Banjo”) Paterson’s The Shearer’s
Colt is that it is a first-class racing novel.
The characters live. Mr. Paterson is so
obviously at home with them, on station
and on track, in city and in society, that
one feels that they are portraits from
life. And each speaks delightfully in
character
“Plagiarist!” said the devil at my
elbow admiringly. “That’s from the
blurb, word for word.”
“There’s such a thing,” I retorted, “as
unconscious plagiarism.”
.“1 know,” he said. “It means you’ve
been found out.”
“All this,” I exclaimed, “is an asper-
sion on book reviewers, and I for one
resent it.”
“But why? Blurbs are only written to
help you hard-work-
ing people. I remem-
ber when a West
Australian novel
called Coonardoo
was published some
time ago the
blurber said the setting was in Queens-
land. As far as I remember, there were
only three reviewers who didn’t agree
with him”
“In any case,” I said impatiently, “Mr.
Paterson’s is a jolly good yarn. He can
still give any of the youngsters a furlong
and a leathering. Why, it kept me up
till half-past twelve to finish it.”
“That,” said the devil at elbow,
“sounds like a notable addition to the
canon of literary criticism. It puts litera-
ture at once in a class with rum. Which
reminds me,” he added gaily, “there’s one
heroic bit of drinking in Banjo’s yarn.
I mean the night Red Fred, the ex-
shearer millionaire, and young Hilton
Fitzroy, the scion of English aristocracy
that Red Fred recruited from the Queens-
land police force to be his valet, have
dinner off wild duck and Murray cod on
old Delahunty’s station, and the three
of them get outside a bottle of claret,
three bottles of whisky and what Banjo
describes as a flask of cherry brandy.”
“Mr. Paterson doesn’t say they drank
it all,” I reminded him.
“No? He doesn’t say they didn’t . 1
wasn’t there myself; I was engaged at
the time looking over a mine with a
Queensland politician ; but there’s strong
circumstantial evidence that they did
finish off that curious variety of sherbet.
I mean, on the morning after not one of
them so much as suggested a reviver.
Why? In my opinion there can be only
one answer to that question.”
“Sherlock,” I said, “you astonish me.
You agree, of course, that Mr. Pater-
son’s anecdotes are delightful in their
breeziness, their variety, their number and
their truth to the Australian native
character?”
“Emphatically,” he concurred. “Their
truth is most arresting. Instance that one
about old Jimmy Tyson never admitting
a bishop to see him because bishops
always want something.”
“Sir,” I said, “in order to be veracious
there is no occasion to be malignant.
What do you think of Mr. Paterson’s
story ?”
“Sorry,” he said enigmatically, “it
didn’t make me think.”
“And Mr. Paterson’s people?”
“I have rarely met so many after my
own heart in a single book.”
“Of course,” I said, “Jimmy the Pat,
that villainous Chinese bookmaker,
would be after your own heart.”
“You may assure the novel’s many
thousand readers from me,” he said,
“that Jimmy the Pat made an excep-
tionally juicy roast.”
•I 5 A'
“From these outback Queensland race
tracks and Randwick and the big inter-
national races in which Red Fred’s horse
runs in England, it’s a far cry,” I said,
“to the spattering bullets and red-shirted
fighters of Giuseppe Garibaldi’s A Toast
to Rebellion”
“A far cry!” said the devil'at elbow
enthusiastically. “Why, it’s a scream!”
“What d’you mean —a scream?” I asked.
He did not answer. Instead, he took
up Signor Garibaldi’s book and turned
its pages ecstatically.
“What a man!” he cried fervently.
“What a hero! I remem-
ber his grandfather, the
Great Garibaldi. The new
wing of furnaces were
dedicated to his memory.
He stocked them liberally
And then, this preseni
Garibaldi’s father. What
a man, also! Pursuing, as
this writing Garibaldi mentions, the great
Garibaldi tradition. Going out to Greece
with his gallant band of red-shirted
fighters to help the Greeks lose to the
Turks. Think of him there, out in the
rough country, sitting in his red shirt on
his white horse under a green tree, while
his men decorated the adjacent landscape
with their red shirts and dead Turks.”
“Of course,” I put in, “the red shirts
dress was asking for trouble.”
“On the contrary,” said d. at e. “this
conception of the original Garibaldi was
a notable contribution to human and
military philosophy, psychology and
strategy. Red, as this writing Gari-
baldi imbibed young, is the ‘color of
blood and sacrifice and freedom.’ But
his grandfather had other considerations
in mind as well. Listen to them : ‘A few
men in a field wearing red look like many
men. If there are ten you will think
there are a hundred, if a hundred you
will believe them a thousand. And the
color of red.dances in the enemy’s rifle
sights and his aim will be bad. But, best
reason of all, your grandfather knew that
a man in a red shirt can neither hide nor
retreat.’ ”
“That,” I said thoughtfully, “seems an
invidious reflection on other colored
shirts.”
“My dear Watson,” said devil at
elbow, “you should be in haberdashery.
Of course, you are quite right. Signor
Garibaldi the writer is not favorably dis-
posed towards present-day Italy. I be-
lieve he thinks that country has become
too modest.”
“A surprising conclusion, surely,” I
said. “Why, he himself seemed to me
to be modesty personified.”
“Of course,” said d. at e. smilingly.
“Instance the time he escaped from that
terrible South American prison, swim-
ming naked across the adjoining bay.
What were the first things he reached for
when he got ashore?”
“Banana leaves.”
“Right. And how many men in the
course of his modest career has he person-
ally dispatched to Furnace Wing B.B.?”
“99.”
“This is not a medical examination. I
made it 73 myself. And
think how he came to
do it! Think first of
all of the young Giu-
• seppe shinning down the
college walls on that
rope made out of sheets
when he heard of his
father going to Greece!
Think of him smuggling
his way out there to join his dad
and be invested in the Red. Think
how nearly his marvellous book came to
not being written at all when he took a
bathe in a lake during the retreat. Pang!
Pang! the Infidel bullets struck the water
beside his head. And what did he do?
‘Attaboy!’ he cried, or Italian to that
effect, swimming ashore Did he reach
for banana leaves? No. They don’t
grow there. He took his clothes in one
hand and his rifle in the other and ran
with his comrades straight at the enemy,
‘stopping now and then to fire at the
running figures or pull on an article of
clothing.’
“How many times,” continued devil
at elbow enthusiastically, “did his
book get as close as that to not being
written! The time in South America
when two bullets pierced his very pillow!
Fifty such occasions. Among them the
time when the Venezuelan Government
warship scored a direct hit on the single
field piece with which he was holding
their three warships at bay. ‘I came to,’
he writes, ‘to find my clothes in ribbons,
but myself unhurt.’ Banana leaves!”
“How d’you mean, banana leaves?” I
said.
“Occasion therefore,” he said laconi-
cally. “And then what about' when he
was with the Australian Horse in South
Africa, and somebody set alight to the
veldt? ‘Men and horses lay on the
ground, spitting blood.’ Think of it!”
He laid the volume reverently down,
open at page 37. My eye took in the
name Anita, the author’s grandmother ;
how, when the original Garibaldi’s war-
boat was battered in one of those South
American revolutionary wars in which
the grandson was to fight so illustriously,
the brave Anita—irresistibly I read this
aloud—“ Had stood on the blazing decks
with a torch in her hands until she made
certain that the enemy’s prize would be
only the charred timber of the gallant
ships.”
“That, of course,” said devil at elbow,
“accounts for a lot.”
Then, turning the pages, I lit upon an
extraordinary fact.
“Why,” I cried, intoxicated with pat-
riotic fervor, “the author was born in
Australia! ”
“And that,” generously admitted the
devil at elbow, “of course accounts for
everything.”
C.M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Mrs. Feather’s Diary: Jeanne dc
Casalis (Heinemann; ss. net). If you
think this naive lady’s diary is as funny
as it is your mind can’t be as pure as it
might be.
The Shearer’s Colt: A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson (Angus and Robertson ; 65.).
Will put fresh heart into disappointed
punters. See Satchel.
Highly Inflammable: Max Saltmarsh
(Michael Joseph, Ltd.; 7s. 6d.). At
7s. 6d. the lot, the narrow escapes work
out at Id. each.
The Bridle Track : J. J. Hardie (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.). Voted by Bulletin
readers by far the most popular of the
serials chosen from the first S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize Competition. Begins
with droving treated with first-hand
knowledge and the human touch, and
proceeds to romance.
The General: C. S. Forester (Michael
Joseph, Ltd.; 7s. 6d.). Depicts clearly
the career of a modern major-general
from Boer War through World War to
Bournemouth bath-chair. Admirable in
craftsmanship, but just a novel.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY . . .
A Toast to Rebellion : Giuseppe Gari-
baldi (The Bodley Head ; 12s. 6d. net).
Simply wonderful. See Satchel.
Against the Tide: Mabel Lethbridge
(Geoffrey Bles; Bs. 6d, net). Author of
Fortune Grass frankly unloads more of
her excitable personality, mostly engaged
in launching out, against odds, as estate-
agent, and dodging her unsatisfactory
husband. Not so interesting in varied ex-
perience on the seamy side as the earlier
book, but, like it, a spontaneous outflow
of sincere self-expression.
ESSAYS . . .
English Essays of To-day Oxford Uni-
versity Press ; 3s. net). Published for the
English association, 41 selected essays by
as many contemporary authors, embrac-
ing pretty well all the best. Excellent.
Our Fellow Men: H. V. Morton
(Methuen; Angus and Robertson ;
ss. 3d.). Thirty brief character sketches
of typical English working men and
women at their jobs. Restful; like
watching a man knitting socks.
CRIME AND DETECTION . . .
Murder of a Startled Lady : Anthony
Abbot (Collins, “Crime Club” ; 7s. 6d.).
New York setting ; spirit voice, through
a medium, mentions remains ; genius re-
constructs victim’s face from the skull
formation ; Commissioner Thatcher Colt,
by solid police methods, untwists a nice
tangle. Jolly good.
GENERAL . . .
The Charm of the Timber House .
S. P. B. Mais and R. Furneaux (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson; 2s. 6d. net).
Description, photos., diagrams and plans
demonstrating the use of timber in mak-
ing charming houses, with English and
American examples.
Australia at Work: Gilbert M. Wal-
lace (Shakespeare Head Press), Well-
illustrated brochure dealing sketchily
(more detailed treatment would involve
producing a technological library) with
Australia’s principal manufacturing in-
dustries. The articles are reprinted from
the Vic. “School Paper.”
Trout Heresy: P. B. M. Allan (Philip
Allan ; Bs. 6d.). Assaults the whole field
of trout-angling literature. Author’s net
conclusion is that fishers for trout have
endowed the creature with supernatural
cunning and adroitness merely because
they found him hard to catch, whereas
he’s no intellect whatever. But he will
still be hard to catch.
Everyhorse: Frank Hart (Country
Life ; 10s. 6d. net). Lively pencil-draw-
ings of horses in all sorts of action, and
the sort of people who most use them,
from circus-riders to lorry-drivers. A
large dash of humor in this typical
“Country Life” production.
Freak Ships: Stanley Rogers (The
Bodley Head ; Bs. 6d. net). Ripleyish
records of marvellous marine mon-
strosities made by man in comparatively
recent times, including the vessel with
which British engineers moved the obelisk
to England by building a cylinder round
that desert souvenir, adding deck, masts,
rudder, captain, crew and the name of
Haile Silassie’s celebrated ancestress, and
putting out to sea at the end of a tow-
line. Another, a ship built of hinged
parts, the bright idea being to drop any
part, with cargo, at a port and pick it up
later. Most entertainingly done.
Various Verse
Against the Tide.
A cloud’s white seaweed idly drifts
Across the morning’s calm lagoon,
As still the silver reef of hills
Holds back the high blue flood of noon.
And now those silver arches make
A dazzling palace of this hour,
Sustaining in a breathless beauty
Time reeling like a tall blue tower.
Oh, sea will smash the reef at last
And charge the shore in creamy thunder,
And tower go crashing down to dusk
In broken golden clouds of wonder,
And then the harsh green taste of eve,
And then the darkness roaring.
But this one hour of pride and power,
Calm sea and tower soaring,
Atones for all, and would that we
Who walk apart the menaced plain,
The green and bitter dusk of love,
Might fling our bodies down again
In one great rugged silver arch
To build once more the tower of noon,
In one rough reef where time might beat
In vain against love’s calm lagoon.
MAOKILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Where I Lie.
N.s.w.
Tattered shadows
Reel in the grass;
There is a wind,
And wild things pass.
High birds, wheeling,
Limn their flight
On a dropped cloud
Of folded white.
Opal-pillowed
[mages moor
Clusters of jet
On the lake floor.
Rushes whisper,
Rub their blades,
“Hear who hides?”
The whisper fades.
Dark, upstanding,
Shoulders the hills;
O'er fainting peaks
A gold show’r spills.
Muled laughter
Furrows the air;
There are strong wings
Everywhere.
E.V. BARION.
The Curse.
If I should wish to curse you I should do it
thus:
May you be smitten with the poet's heart
And see all things within a gold and murky
haze.
Feel beauty in all ugliness, and see
(With eyes enfranchised by the drug of poesy)
The canker in the heart of every rose.
May you feel beauty till you cry aloud in pain
And writhe with tortured love of all things
good;
May you feel evil sit enthroned upon your
heart,
And may it goad you on with ugliness
Until you write in madness while the whole
world reels
In raving images about your brain.
May all the many devils from the seven hells
And all the angels from the seven heavens
Shout their shrill war-cries in your maddened,
rhythmic brain
And hammer out their swords upon your
heart;
And may they fight within your head until
their seething blood
Pours from your dribbling pen in poetry,
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


wo
MIND
Speed, accuracy and efficiency are the
all-important factors that have resulted
in the people of Australia using the
A.W.A. Communication Services to the
extent of 20,000,000 words a year.
Public wireless message services are
available by Beam Wireless to most parts
of the world, and other A.W.A. services
for public use include wireless messages
to Papua, New Guinea and other Pacific
Islands, and to ships at sea.
Wireless telephone stations of world
range enable Australians to converse
with their friends and business associates
in almost any part of the world.
Further particulars will be gladly sup-
plied by A.W.A. Central Radio Offices,
47 York Street, Sydney, or at 167/9
Queen Street, Melbourne, or messages
may be lodged or wireless telephone calls
booked at Post Offices.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


*
ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
-
m
~w ,'V ,
■ ,
•'f
■
■
ii
—
Hh
■ :
Bran
a
1 E
M
-
■
mm
V-
H
*
HHB
Hi
<r
V
Mi
*
■
H
■I
■
■
A
llif
4:
ii
■
: ■
4d
m
■
m
m
■
■
%
n
■
■
■
Ml
H
*?*
A
m:
r.
V*
H
m
m
55
Jl
H
Bi
y*r«r
B ■
->-V
HIS
Warn
■
■
h
I HI
Mi
H
:
i*:
■
SH
Bi
—WWW
ISillBH HK; ■
.X
*v*.**'-;*:v #
mm
mm.
U
vw
HMMHHHHHHHHHi5
. - gr
t „ - x- 4 * - * -.' * > *ssir
■■■ Bf -- ■ •
~ .* . ' ■ * * ~ -" * -** j
■ ■
m
Aerial View of Seppeltsheld, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
.ylfPc'ri HimofWm melietmesd mcUmiq f ud


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2945.
July 22, 1936.
THE FIREBUG.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
„ King William Street, Adelaide.
westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s •
6 months. 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America , 3d. To all other places , 4d.
NEWSPAPER LIARS.
Germany and Austria have settled their long-standing
differences on a plan suggested by Italy. Germany
recognises “the full sovereignty” of Austria, and
Austria recognises that it is “a German State,” and
each pledges itself not to interfere, “directly or in-
directly,” in the internal affairs of the other. Though
called an agreement, it looks veiy like an alliance,
and may presently become part of a group of alliances,
with Italy, Hungary and Albania as parties.
It is all a result of “sanctions” and of the Franco-
Soviet pact. The British Government, urged on by
the Opposition parties and, of course, by the League
of Nations Union, which embraces members of all
parties, took the lead in imposing “sanctions,” and
the Franco-Soviet pact was effusively welcomed by
some Conservatives (League of Nations Union brand),
by many Laborftes and “Liberals,” and by the whole
pack of Bolshevik writing men, who are much more
numerous in British newspaper offices and literary
circles than people in the Dominions suppose. So
the successful issue of the Austro-German-Italian
negotiations is another reverse for British foreign
policy. That is, the new foreign policy, of which
“the League Covenant” is (or was) “the cornerstone,”
and which is now despised and rejected everywhere ;
not the old isolationist foreign policy, which com-
manded the respect and admiration of the world.
All the same, the new arrangement in itself con-
tains nothing that need alarm the Empire. If
Downing-street accepts it in a realist spirit and ceases
to go looking for allies against Italy and Germany
among the tagrag and bobtail of Europe, it may work
out well for the British Commonwealth of Nations,
as well as for the parties concerned. Already it has
been followed by an casing of the situation in the
Mediterranean, as evidence of which Australia is at
last to get its two warships back and Italian troops
are homeward-bound from the Libyan frontier.
On general principles, the English should welcome
the efforts of Europeans to settle their difficulties
in their own way. Except in desperate emergencies
which happen in the course of centuries, it has always
been doubtful whether they really help Europe by
interfering in its affairs, especially as the interference
is so often resented, even by the parties championed.
These European peoples have got to live alongside
one another. If, after all that has happened since
1914, they are crazy enough to quarrel and to go to
war, believing that the winner can make conquest pay,
let the funeral be theirs, not ours. Certainly Britain
should have learned enough from the War That
Nobody Won to resolve that, unless it is itself
in danger of being attacked, it will in no circumstances
fight for one European Power or group against
another: Greece, Yugoslavia or Turkey against Italy,
or Russia against Germany. In either case, we should
most probably be backing the wrong horse.
There is another lesson to be learned from the
events of the past 12 months. The leaders of Italy
and Germany have been held up to the execration of
English-speaking people—presented as conceited
adventurers of a low type ruling sullenly hostile
peoples by the sword. It is now clear that this picture
is utterly false that Mussolini and Hitler are in reality
able men in whom their nations passionately believe,
and that they go from strength to strength.
Vilification of foreign rulers is an old game of
the British newspaper press—always, of course, with
honorable exceptions. Napoleon was accused by
London newspapers of nearly every crime ,in
the calendar, beginning with incest; and this
campaign of slander probably prolonged and certainly
embittered the wars with France. Much the same
thing is going on nowadays at the expense of Musso-
lini and Hitler. Even last week prominence was
given by newspapers whose poisonous rubbish is dis-
tributed throughout the Empire to the assertion of
some unnamed Italian officer that Mussolini was a
“bluffer,” a “diplomatic fool,” who had made a mess
of the campaign in Abyssinia and had been rescued
only by the talents of Badoglio, and to the allegation
of an Austrian doctor, “released from a Nazi prison
after 14 months’ detention,” that “if you want to find
a gentleman in Germany to-day you have to go to
the prisons, because all the gentlemen are there.”
This sort of journalism was exhibited at its worst
during the fighting in Abyssinia, when no lie was too
venomous or too silly to be concocted by press cham-
pions of the now-exploded Haile Silassie. The detest-
able spirit informing it was revealed again when
“sanctionist” newspapers turned from the wreck of
iheir crazy Mediterranean policy to throw mud at
honest little Maoriland, shouting—only a few days
after June 15, when another instalment of war
interest, payable at Washington, fell due —that the
staunchest of Empire countries meant to default.
Hitler has suggested that all international agree-
ments aiming at peace should include clauses designed
to make inflammatory publications punishable where
mendacity and malice can be proved. It will be a
good thing for mankind if it can be done. A free
press is a blessing, but it is an abuse of freedom to
provoke international animosities by sheer journalistic
blackguardism. The newspaper liar is the firebug
of the modern world.
Mr. McKerihan Offends.
A modern Arthur Young visiting these parts would
find in all the States land which has been overworked
and is worn out; land which, is used too little and
harbors a multitude of pests; men who are poor
because they have too much land and others because
they can’t get any.
N. S. Wales offers the worst examples. Once it
was all Crown land ; now nearly two-fifths of N. S.
Wales holdings are “alienated.” Of these 36,000 are
under 320 acres in extent, and 30,000 range between
321 acres and 4000 acres —they represent nearly 50
p.c. of the improved capital value of N. S. Wales
pastoral and agricultural land. Country towns stag-
nate because they are surrounded by huge stations ;
the Government has received 5500 applications for
land from landless men, and the Minister of Lands,
good Mr. Buttonhole, has blithely placed it on record
that not one closer-settlement block was surveyed in
a twelvemonth.
. In Britain 444,642 holdings out of 458,906 have
a 300-acre maximum ; 292,847 are from one to 50
acres. The peer who owns 4000 acres proudly records
it in Who’s Who; almost since the Conquest British
families have lived on 1000-acre tracts no better than
almost idle land within an hour’s journey of Sydney.
Bavarian small-holders have established a sort of
aristocracy which has passed on ornate houses and
trim fields from father to son for centuries. And
the Dane with an 80-acre farm considers himself rich.
In Denmark no blade of grass goes to waste
and no pest is allowed to exist. As much atten-
tion is given to nourishing and breeding grass as
to feeding and breeding dairy cattle. And little
Denmark has as many dairy cattle as Australia pos-
sesses, and four times as many pigs ; and, as a rule,
its sales of bacon to Britain (worth £20,941,200 sterling
in 1932 and £19,123,900 in 1933) far exceed in value
British purchases of Australian wool.
Yet Australia is not lacking in examples which
show that a small-holding system could be adopted
even in sheep country. Crookwell (N.S.W.) has one.
C. E. Prell bought a Crookwell property which was
carrying two sheep to three acres. It now carries four
to five sheep to the acre, and better sheep than
formerly. The Prell plan of improvements consisted
in putting down fertiliser with summer oats and rye
grass, phalaris tuberosa and subterranean clover.
There are many 5000-acre blocks which, with
scientific grass-farming, could be made to carry 15,000
sheep at the end of four years, and which, subdivided,
would support 20 to 25 families content with incomes
of £3OO to £350 p.a. With stock and pasture improve-
ment, dairying could also provide a living for many
more Australians, and so could the production of beef
cattle and pigs. In a paper read at the N. S. Wales
Agricultural Bureau conference, Edmund Burke, of
the Newcastle District Abattoir Board, said that “the
home market for meat” had been “woefully neglected,”
and that “the greatest aid to profitable closer settle-
ment is the pig.”
At the same conference C. R. McKerihan, presi-
dent of the N. S. Wales Rural Bank, said that the
need for closer settlement was so urgent that the
State could no longer afford to let landholders block
it while themselves neglecting to develop their proper-
ties “to full production capacity.” In Denmark,
according to the Statesman’s Year-Book, “the law
interdicts the union of small farms into larger estates,
but encourages, in various ways, the parcelling out
of landed property” ; in N. S. Wales, according to
Mr. McKerihan, “there are many citizens who are
prepared only partially to work large estates, and who
apparently have no national sentiment when their
estates are involved. This attitude will not do.” The
bank president suggested that “the Government
appeal to large landholders to subdivide, and offer
to assist them with surveys and roads.” The Rural
Bank lends up to 66 p.c. of its valuation of a property ;
if the Government provided sufficient to enable 80
p.c. to be advanced, “action” might be taken “imme-
diately,” the “question of compulsory subdivision
being postponed till voluntary subdivision has been
shown to be inadequate.”
These remarks are reported to have gravely
offended members of the Government, particularly
Country-party Ministers. Closer-settlement, it seems,
is “a political matter,” and Mr. McKerihan is a
public servant. But it was surely time that a man
who can speak with knowledge and authority reminded
the Government of responsibilities which it has
neglected for four years.
Defence—or What?
Mr. Archdale Parkhill became Minister for
Defence just after returning from his trip to the
Postal Congress at Cairo, which was undertaken
because the experience gained there would be invalu-
able to him as Postmaster-General. Much water has
flowed down the Molonglo since then, but the numeri-
cal strength of the militia is still 8000 short of the
very modest figure (35,000) which Mr. Parkhill
considers the minimum safety level.
At frequent intervals the Defence Minister has
remarked mysteriously that a campaign to increase
the strength would “begin in a few weeks.”
No hint was dropped as to the form the campaign
would take. Drill-hall conjecture was that it would
involve putting a peak on the men’s caps or the
conferring of long-service medals (with clasps) after
12 months’ service.
Volunteers have now been gladdened with the
news that they are to get the peaks on their caps—
“dark-colored peaked caps, with colored bands.”
Privates are also to receive 965. a year, instead of
485., for home-training and continuous-camp attend-
ances, conditionally on their furnishing proofs of
“efficiency” (penalty for non-efficiency, a three-eighths
deduction), from the Administration which last year
distributed £2,750,000 among three begging provincial
Governments, two of which have used part of the
money for pay-increases to “Crown employees,”- poli-
ticians included.
An army of 27,000 in a country with a population
of nearly 7,000,000 would be laughable were we not
citizens of that country.
Holland, which has not engaged in a war for
over 100 years, has over 350,000 trained officers and
men in a population slightly larger than our own.
Military training is compulsory.
Norway, Sweden and Switzerland, three other
countries which have not been involved in a war for
over a century, have compulsory military training.
Australians, being at a great distance from
Europe’s danger zones, are not so alive to the neces-
sity of learning to defend their country as are the
peoples of the Old World.
If the necessity arises no one doubts that, as in
1914, the response would be adequate in point of
numbers and willingness, but the indications are that
the next call will, be a more urgent one than the last,
and that less time will be granted for preparation.
Willingness is not the only essential. Training
and knowledge are all-important. When war comes
to a country which relies solely on the volunteer
system fearful sacrifices of untrained men must be
made at the outset, even if the victory is gained at
last. Australians and Maorilanders should not need
to be reminded of that.
The compulsory-training law is still on the Statute
Books. It was suspended, not repealed, by the Scullin
Government. The present Government is apparently
afraid to restore the system lest in doing so it should
alienate some votes.
Mr. Parkhill says the voluntary system has not
failed. A theatrical manager might pass the same
remark about a show when his theatre, with a capacity
of 2000, is empty save for a few front rows and a
sprinkling in “the gods,” but he certainly wouldn’t
claim it as a success. The regulations provide that
the ranks shall be open to men between the ages of
18 and 40. This age-group totals approximately
1,200,000, and the militia musters 27,000!
If Australia is to have a defence force worthy
of the name, some kind of compulsory service will
have to be reintroduced. The old system of two-
and four-hour parades, with an annual camp of eight
days thrown in when funds permitted, was definitely
a failure, and no one would seriously urge its resump-
tion, but something better must be devised if our
national defence is to be anything more than a joke.
The following plan is suggested for consideration:
(1) All men to become liable for training for home
defence at the age of 18.
(2) Service for the first year to consist of six
months’ continuous training.
(3) In subsequent years until attainment of the age
of 26 “refresher” training of 14 days (continuous) per
year.
Training would be carried out in permanent camps,
preferably not too close to the capital cities. The
approximate number of youths attaining the age of
18 each year would be 60,000, so that 30,000 men
would be continuously in camp. And by the time the
first batch passed into the “reserve” at 26 there would
be 480,000 fully-trained men in the country.
To bring this about no new legislation is neces-
sary. All males are already liable for training and
service up to the age of 26. Complaints about dislo-
cation of business are ruled out by the fact that each
year’s trainees would serve in two batches. In any
case, they would be absent from industry for much
less time than is common in many European countries.
The cost would certainly be heavier than that of the
present unsatisfactory volunteer system, but there
would be a worth-while fighting force in return for the
outlay. Furthermore, with 30,000 men removed from
the labor market unemployed-relief expenditure would
be permanently reduced.
The suggestion is not advanced as a final plan
but as a genuine suggestion towards what is rapidly
becoming the most important, though the most over-
looked, question in the Commonwealth. If the
Government is sincere in its efforts to provide for
the defence of the country, and not content merely
to shelter behind Britain’s skirts, it must consider
restoring compulsory service, and it should not let
Opposition outbursts, pacifist aggressiveness or fear
of election consequences deter it.
B.B.J.


S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Award for 1936
The winner of the 1936 competition for the
annual S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for
Australian Literature is the novel
“ALL THAT SWAGGER,’’
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
The judging resulted in the MS. submitted under
the “working title only” of “Advance Aus-
tralia,” by “Captain Bligh,” being declared the
winner. After the sealed envelopes containing
the names and addresses of competitors had
been opened "Captain Bligh” was found to be
the pseudonym of the author of My Brilliant
Career and Old Blastus of Bandicoot, and, it is
widely believed, of the equally famous “Brent
of Bin Bin” novels.
Miss Franklin names her latest novel All That
Swagger, under which title this magnificent
story will shortly appear serially in “The
Bulletin.” Later All That Swagger will be
published in book form in Australia, England
and America simultaneously.
A brilliant work in sheer writing, planned and
carried out on a grand scale, All That Swagger
adds memorable characters to Australian
literature,- has a stirring dramatic quality in its
story and a splendid theme. More detailed
description, by various readers of the MS., will
appear on the Red Page of next week’s
“Bulletin.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The King in Danger.
No longer the smiling, carefree Prince that Australia
and Maoriland knew, but a sovereign who goes about
his duties with a serious face, Edward VIII. has
already, in circumstances everywhere deplored, been
called upon to exhibit the high courage of his house.
In Hyde Park on Thursday his Majesty presented
new colors to six battalions of Guards, Riding back
to Buckingham Palace at the head of the household
troops, he had passed under the Wellington Arch
at Hyde Park Corner when there was a movement in
the crowd on one side of the street. A man was seen
to push his way to the edge Of the footpath. A special
constable grabbed him ; uniformed policemen rushed
up, and in the scuffle a revolver went flying on the
roadway, so close to the King that his horse kicked
it along.
Steadying his frightened charger, and turn-
ing in the saddle to gaze at ,his assailant, who was
now securely held by three policemen, the King
looked ahead again and rode back to his Palace. To
outward appearance, he was as cool as when he had
presented the colors. Arrived at the Palace, he
remained mounted for 20 minutes while the Guards
marched past. The ceremony over, he phlegmatically
completed his programme for the day—lunch at St.
James’s Palace ; signing of State papers ; golf.
The revolver was loaded, but the first chamber
was empty and no shot had been fired. Charged
merely with having been in unlawful possession of
a firearm “with intent to endanger life and property,”
the man was discovered to be a crank and an asso-
ciate of cranks. He insists that he meant no harm,
and the reasonable, as well as charitable, explanation
of his conduct is that he is a crackbrained person with
a clubfoot and imaginary grievances—no rare type,
unfortunately.
Crackbrained he must be. Of all the men who
speak the English tongue, no man of sound mind,
whatever his race or politics, would hurt the King.
The People Triumph.
James, the South Australian dried-fruits merchant,
has beaten another lot of politicians and jacks-in-
office who restricted his trading rights in violation of
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution ; and
his victory is a victory for the common man.
Section 92 says :
Trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean naviga-
tion, shall be absolutely free.
The circumstances leading up to James’s second
successful appeal to the Privy Council (the first was
against South Australia in 1932) were outlined in B.
6 and 27/5/’36. In the second article it was stated that
“the whole scheme of the Constitution, and especially
of Section 92, is to place legal restriction upon Com-
monwealth and States alike, so that the traders and
citizens of the country may enforce their rights against
both.”
Following the 1932 judgment, the Law Lords have
emphatically declared that this broad construction is
correct. “Section 92,” they say, “binds the Common-
wealth ; the Dried Fruits Act, 1928-35, and regulations
are invalid as contravening Section 92.”
The Constitution, including Section 92, embodied
»he will of the people, and is only alterable by the will
of the people, expressed according to Section 128.
That is to say, by popular ratification of a pro-
posed law for the alteration of the Constitution, the
requirements being (a) a majority of all the electors
voting on the proposal at a referendum, and ( b )
majorities in four States.
The judgment may be said to mean that the
people have rights in the domain of “trade, commerce
and intercourse among the States” equivalent to those
which they possess in public parks. While by no
means impairing the right of producers to organise
for voluntary co-operation, it strikes a blow at the
whole “control” business as meddled in by
the Lyons Government —and it was preparing
to meddle further. The judgment, in fact, is
a tremendous facer for that Government, which will
have to pay all James’s costs and its own, as well
as whatever damages the High Court may award
when the case goes back to it; and a blow also to
the Melbourne Government, which backed the Com-
monwealth Attorney-General, and to the Sydney
and Brisbane Governments, which intervened
against James (the Perth and Hobart Govern-
ments intervened on the winning side). More will
be written when these dazed politicians stagger up
from the floor and outline their plans, if they can
devise any.
Too Dashed Independent!
Australian wool brought £900,000 short of
£50,000,000 Australian during the season just closed.
Average return was 14.2 d, a pound, as against 10d.,
and the total cheque was up £11,200,000. Naturally
the price weakened in June; indeed, the £50,000,000
mark might have been reached but for the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff. The difference, if any, may not have
been enough for the fees and expenses of another
royal commission.
In value, wool represents close on half of our
exports. It is one of the very few Australian rural
products which have no home price, no Government
bounty or concession of any kind, and no British
preference. It is so cursedly independent, in fact,
that it takes away a lot of the honor and glory of
regained “prosperity” from politicians, and growers
of it cannot be beguiled by promises of political
favors. It is of no use to vote-catchers at all.
Macarthur and Bligh had a row over woolgrow-
ing early in this country’s history, “Are you to have
such flocks of sheep as no man ever heard of before?
No, sir!” That was one of Bligh’s outbursts. But
Macarthur won in the end, and the industry has been
the mainstay of our credit since.
It was suggested last week that Canberra might
finance any surplus wool left on the market as a
result of withdrawn Japanese bidding. The Prime
Minister said that if the growers desired such action
it would be considered. Then somebody recalled that
on a former occasion when the price fell below cost
of production Government “assistance” was proffered
and the woolgrowers as a body intimated that they
would have none of it.
The news that Canberra was flying a kite reached
London, and Mr. Lyons, tuning in to Britain, as
usual, got this;
London is not keen on Government control or
interference with wool marketing. It considers that
the healthy position of the wool industry is largely
due to freedom from Government control.
In fact, all that the industry asked of the poli-
ticians was to let it alone ; and they wouldn’t let it
alone.
Bank Credits and Japan.
A pretty muddle has developed over the matter of
the prohibited imports.
It is the custom, in many cases, for Australian
importers to establish irrevocable letters of credit in
Japan to finance their purchases. Such funds cannot
be closed against the Japanese exporter without his
consent unless they become exhausted.
Where an .irrevocable letter of credit exists, a
merchant of Nippon may put a consignment of goods
on an Australian-bound ship, take the bills-of-lading,
etc., to a bank, and collect his money in terms of the
letter. The bank must pay (and the importer must
indemnify it) whether the goods were dispatched after
July 9 (the day after which it became an offence to
ship prohibited goods to Australia with the object
of bringing them in) or not. So Australians now have
to trust entirely to Japanese exporters and hope that
they won’t send any more banned goods after July 9,
though if they do Tokio can collect.
If such goods do arrive in an Australian port,
the importer, willing or unwilling, may
(!) Be fined.
(2) Have his goods confiscated.
(3) Be ordered to ship them back to Japan.
(4) Be given the option of shipping them elsewhere,
or otherwise disposing of them, according to the dis-
cretion of the Customs.
The Customs authorities have a headache already,
though it will be some time before prohibited ship-
ments can arrive. It is charming to think that Aus-
tralian businessmen have now to rely on the restraint
of annoyed Japanese merchants not to put them to
huge expense and loss, though the same Australians,
in their finance arrangements, have done no more
than follow a commercial practice common the world
over.
"Let Us Now Praise Famous Men."
Canberra has inspired a paltry proposal that Charles
Kingsford Smith should be commemorated by some
flying facility or convenience at Mascot, Sydney. It
seems strange that a Government which can squander
£40,000 on a royal commission and find £17,000 for
a Prime Minister’s delegation to London should
grudge a fitting national memorial; stranger still
when Oakland, California, has already unveiled a
plaque “to the memory of the Australian aviators
Kingsford Smith and Ulm as a permanent tribute to
the courage and foresight of those gallant airmen.”
To name a gadget at Mascot after Kingsford
Smith and call it a national memorial would be an
insult to his memory. It would be inappropriate, too,
because Kingsford Smith’s most wonderful exploit,
the flight across the Pacific, was consummated before
the days of beacons and directional wireless. The
more the airmen of the future learn to rely on such
devices the more they will marvel at the greatness of
his achievement.
One suggestion made to Cabinet, and not yet
rejected, is that the airman’s son should be educated
at the expense of the nation and, when old enough,
taken into its service. To make the child a ward of
the Commonwealth would be a graceful way of
expressing national appreciation of his father’s genius.
There is ample precedent in antiquity and in later
history for such a course.
If the Government really feels that it cannot
afford a national memorial it might name one of
the pioneer aviation grounds after Kingsford Smith
and thus preserve his memory for all time. The
airport at Darwin might be called the Kingsford Smith
Flying Field. This would be a cheap way of doing
it if the Government must have cheapness, but it
would at least be dignified.
The Vengeance of Nature.
While following the American experiment with
interest and sympathy, many Australians have had
the uncanny feeling that Nature would avenge itself
on the country which has gone in for restricting pro-
duction, even to the point of paying farmers for
ploughing in their crops. Nature has done so, season
after season, this year terribly. Last week it was
reported that drought had scourged 385 counties in
12 States. And Death has stalked through the
stricken regions as well as drought.
A.A.A., as the bureaucracy administering the
Agricultural Adjustment Act is called, has actually
paid farmers $1,100,000,000 for not producing. Since
its measures were declared unconstitutional by the
Supreme Court, it has received authority from Con-
gress to continue paying non-producers $500,000,000
a year “to withhold 30,000,000 acres from the produc-
tion of wheat, corn, cotton, tobacco and other crops,”
the pretence being that they are to get it for
“soil-conservation.” Now the Government has to find
many more millions to maintain, and in many cases
to remove to other States, the unfortunate people who
have taken the worst shock of Nature’s vengeance.
According to an Opposition Senator, A.A.A. gave
a Kansas farmer $78,638 in two years for not growing
wheat. Canberra’s handling of the wheat problem
has been singularly inept, but it has never done any-
thing as crazy as that.
"Crisis" Comes Again.
There has been another “crisis” in Victorian State
politics—or, at least, in the rather muddled affairs of
the U.A.P.
Before and during the general election 17 months
ago, a U.A.P.-C.P. Ministry held office under the
leadership of Dr. Argyle. At the election the U.A.P.
wing lost two or three seats, and this was sufficient
for the C.P. to detach itself from the alliance and
turn out what was left of the Government. In this it
had the assistance of the Labor party, which both
recent allies had merrily opposed.
Dr. Argyle led his deserted group to the Oppo-
sition benches. This has never been to the taste of
Mr. Macfarlan, who was his Attorney-General, and
Mr. Macfarlan found like-minded men among U.A.P.
gentlemen from outer-suburban and country districts.
Their dissatisfaction grew when Dr. Argyle got into
the habit of hitting out at Country party measures
with a popular or at least a local appeal, being
evidently under the old-fashioned impression that it
was the duty of an Opposition to oppose.
Apparently the doctor’s known intention to fight
a bill providing for the appointment of another salaried
Minister —the ninth —was the last straw. On the day
he spoke against this measure, Mr. Macfarlan an-
nounced the formation of “a Country and Liberal
section within the U.A.P.” The “Country and Liberal
section” began with eight members, and more are
expected to join.
The Victorian public has accepted the “crisis”
with considerable calm. It has become accus-
tomed to such things. A little over four years ago
Mr. E. J. Hogan was head of a Labor Government,
and among his colleagues were Mr. Jones and Mr.
Bailey. There was a row over the Premiers’ Plan;
Mr. Hogan was “excluded” from the Labor party, Mr.
Bailey lost his seat in the rout of the Government,
and Mr. Jones, who is an M.L.C., joined the U.A.P.-
C.P. Ministry. The feeling between Mr, Hogan and
his old associates was such that they went to law
about it.
Now Mr. Hogan and Mr. Bailey are members
of the C.P. Government formed after the carrying
of Mr. Dunstan’s vote of no-confidence in the Admin-
istration of which he was a member, and Mr. Hogan
and Mr. Bailey are kept in their positions by the
party from which they were “excluded.”
Is it any wonder that Victorians do not take
State politics seriously or care two straws what their
alleged parties call themselves or what caves are
formed?
One thing stands out: State politics, always waste-
ful since 1901, are becoming more so than ever, and
paltry withal. In Victoria and other States the busi-
ness engages the energies of 505 members, all, with
their multitude of satellites, sustained by unneces-
sary taxes and doing work, largely duplicated, which
one Parliament of all the talents, legislative and admin-
istrative, could do better. It absorbs an undue
and ever-increasing share of the national income of
a country which is not nearly so rich as politicians
claim.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Centurion”; General Rosenthal told
a Sydney audience that if a howitzer
battery had been taken overseas with the
First Division of the A.I.F. to the land-
ing at Gallipoli it might have turned
the tide in our favor. His statement has
been hotly questioned by other military
experts, but anyway the battery he had
in mind did eventually get as far as
Egypt. It was part of the cargo in 1915
of the A 24, otherwise the Marere, and
with it went a quantity of ammunition.
Writer was O.C. troops and never saw
the howitzers, which were stowed in the
holds. Two enormous envelopes hold-
ing the drawings of the guns were en-
trusted to him with orders to hand them
in at G.H.Q. Arrived at Suez, orders
came to send the guns on with a guard
to Alexandria, while troops disembarked
for Cairo. I handed over the envelopes
at Cairo, and heard no more of them.
Whether the howitzers went to Gallipoli
or not I never learned. Certainly they
never accompanied the Light Horse into
Sinai, where they would have been
mighty welcome.
“Becks”: A “long-service record” was
admitted by a cook charged at Ballarat
last week with forgery, uttering and
false pretences. In all he had served 30
years in gaol. His first conviction was
recorded in 1889, also at Ballarat, and
he had gone from dock to clink 24 times
since then. The Judge brought up the
quarter-century by giving him 12 months.
“Moturoa”; There was the devil to
pay in a New Plymouth (M.L.) news-
paper office the other day when the fol-
lowing advt. appeared in cold print:
To let, unfurnished fiat, suit two busi-
ness girls or young unmarried couple.
“That comp, again !” was the general ver-
dict, but frantic scanning of the written
ad. proved that the lino, man had faith-
fully “followed copy.”
“O. W. Waireki”; Our annual show-
night ball at Waiwaiwai was a somewhat
hectic affair. One burly bushwhacker-
stopped a flying bottle with his forehead,
but after having the injured place bound
up he resumed dancing and pranced
about with such vim that the blood-
stained bandage slipped to the floor.
Someone picked it up and tossed it out
of an open window, where it caught
Henare full in the face. The indignant
native hopped into the room. “Who
threw t’at piece of liver at me?” he
demanded aggressively.
“Der Jong”; Italian messages from
Abyssinia make much of “mass submis-
sions” of Ethiopian soldiers. The con-
querors should not build too much on
that. I have a lively recollection of
mass submissions by the Free State Boers
after Roberts had occupied Bloemfontein
Peasants came in by thousands, and the
arms they gave up to a confiding
authority formed the finest collection of
old iron writer ever encountered. From
one to two months after the proclamation
95 p.c. of the submitters were on com-
mando again, with the Mauser rifles they
had omitted to hand in. It was then
that the embittered Bobs realised that
the only way to make a Boojer keep his
parole was to ship him and it to St.
Helena or Ceylon.
“Petrie”: Brisbane City Council has
been taking stock of street names, and
is dismayed to find many duplications
and multiplications. There are 30 Wil-
liam-streets, 29 Short-streets and Park-
streets, and so on. In many cases,
streets have different names in different
sections, and the bewildered citizen does
not know whether he is in Station-street
or Park-street. The council has under-
taken the job of straightening out the
tangle and erecting thousands of street
name-plates. At present looking for a
name-plate in Brisbane is a task that
recalls the old Levantine gentleman’s
search for an honest man.
* * * *
“W.T.M.”: Fetch me a Bible and I’ll
swear to these; (1) In an Australian capi-
tal city recently the Parliamentary
draughtsman received printer’s proofs of
an Act purporting “to amend and regu-
late the law relating to births, deaths and
mirages.” Final proofs, too! (2) The
Professor of Philosophy at the local uni-
versity said he would be charmed to
address, the ladies at their monthly club
luncheon. Subject? Oh, yes—Bergson’s
book. The Two Sources of Morality. An
enthusiastic typist immediately posted an
advance announcement on the club
notice-board, “Please all come to the
luncheon ; Professor will talk to us
on The Two Sauces of Morality.”
“O. de V.”: It happened at a meeting
of our local council, following the read-
ing of a colorful but rather abusive
letter from a cocky objecting to dilatori-
ness in repairing the road to his farm.
When the ensuing uproar had subsided
sufficiently, Councillor Jones heaved his
stocky frame erect and delivered his ex-
pert opinion on the matter. “There’s
only one thing to do with a man that puts
that sort of language on paper. I move,
Mr. Chairman, that we write and tell
the that we burned his letter with-
out readin’ it!"”
“Chinnock”; In case any other State
should be desirous of emulating the
example set by Victoria in importing Cap-
tain Cook’s father’s cottage, I suggest
that Westralia could easily go one better.
At East Coker in Somersetshire tourists
are still shown the ancient manor-house
(now a farmhouse) where William Dam-
pier, the first Englishman known to have
set foot on Westralian shores,, was born
in 1652. It is a picturesque old building,
which is more than can be said for the
Cook tenement; and there is authentic
evidence that Dampier was born there,
whereas Captain Cook’s connection with
the paternal shack in Yorkshire is a trifle
vague and shadowy. Futhermore Dam-
pier was exploring our coasts and making
accurate observations about the natives
over 40 years before James Cook was
born. Probably the Somersetshire farm-
house could be acquired cheaply enough
to form a permanent attraction in King’s
Park, Perth. On the other hand, it is
just possible that West-Country folk,
more sentimental than Yorkshiremen,
might resent the idea of its being uprooted.
“Mug-Rider”: The overcrowding of
mail steamers in the early part of next
year won’t worry one coronation tripper,
Warrant-Officer Reid, of St. Kilda. At
that time he’ll probably be swimming
his horse across the Bosphorus or inquir-
ing the shortest route from Szegedin to
Felegyhaza. He plans to ride without
a change of horses from Melbourne to
London, with only one sea-break (either
Darwin to Federated Malay States or
Fremantle to Calcutta), working to a
schedule of 40 miles a day for 300 con-
secutive days. The present writer, who
has never ridden a horse 40 miles for
even one consecutive day, wishes him
luck, but pessimistically opines that it
can’t be done.
“Moturoa”: Tastes of Governors-
General differ, as was shown when Lords
Bledisloe and Galway visited “Flock
House” during their terms of office in
Maoriland. Bledisloe stood for hours in
the piggery, entranced, while Galway
(when invited to view the
porkers) sniffed loudly and ex-
pressed a preference to “take
the pigs as read!” “He must
think we run nothing but Tarn-
worths here,” commented a by-
stander perplexedly.
“An ’ now We’ve unveiled the memorial drinkin' fountain to our late mayor
I'll ask the gentlemen present to come across to the pub to drink ’is
’ ealth.”
“Oran”: The boss, an old-timer, has
never become really familiar with “long-
distance,” and when he talks to another
State his naturally high-pitched voice
develops a startling crescendo. He was
speaking from Sydney to Melbourne, and
was as usual shrieking his observations.
A surprised lady waiting outside his door
inquired who was screaming inside. The
offlee-boy apologetically explained that r.
was the chief having his weekly chat
with Melbourne. “Good heavens'” said
the amazed client. “Why doesn’t he
telephone ?”
* ' * * ...
“Aunt Susan”: 1 blame “the pictures”
for the disappearance of the street-
corner bootblack, honest man (B
8/7/’36)! In the U.S.A. all boot-clean-
ing work is done by “Afro-Americans ”
and as this became evident in Holly-
wood films our bootshiners went all
self-conscious about it. So white Aus-
tralians stoop no more over bootshine
stands—or, at least, not in such
numbers as of old. “Boots” is also dis-
appearing from Australian pubs. Leave
your shoes outside your bedroom door,
and in many hotels you find them there
in the morning looking just as they were
the night before.
(l . „ * . * . *
Morbus : A medical pessimist has
been telling us that the air mail has
brought the danger of cholera much
nearer Australia. I have some old press
cuttings to show that in the ’eighties
cholera was quite a commonplace among
the crowded immigrants who came to
Queensland by the 8.1. boats via Singa-
pore and Batavia. One vessel, the
Dorunda, is reported as having had some
50 cases in all. No attempt was made to
quarantine her as she ambled down the
coast developing fresh cases, some of
which were landed at Brisbane. Yet, in
spite of this casual attitude of the health
authorities, the disease never seems to
have taken hold ashore. The germ
theory of infection was then unknown,
and such attempts at disinfection as were
made would seem ludicrously inadequate
to-day. Had the water in any of the
N.Q. towns become infected we might
have cholera endemic in Australia, as it
is in so many countries. Another curious
feature was that, though many passengers
disembarked at various ports down the
coast to Brisbane and the disease is con-
tagious as well as infectious, nothing
happened.
“Lond”: It has been proposed in
London to control traffic on crowded
crossings by a mechanical signal. Stale
news? Undoubtedly. The suggestion
was made in the “Illustrated London
News” of Jan. 3, 1857! A tin plate was
to revolve at one-minute intervals, show-
ing red for Stop and blue for Go—almost
the modern idea ; but London went to
sleep on it for nearly 80 years.
“Bryan”: Add to the list of street
vendors who dare not leave their wares
to search for customers the lads in our
town who sell ice-cream during the
summer and pies in the winter. For
some unascertainable reason they adver-
tise the pics
vocally, but use
small bells to draw
attention to the
ices. Bugles, and
not bells, were the
vogue at one
period. This was
during the days of
compulsory mili-
tary training, and
the ice - cream
vendor who could
not borrow or beg an instrument was
severely handicapped. For a time the
streets echoed to the strains of “Come to
the Cookhouse Door” and other tunes
not so easily recognisable ; but some un-
musical alderman was successful in get-
ting bugles banned, much to the disgust
of the hucksters.
“Romany Rye”; The bush publican
mentioned (B. 15/7/’36) as having been
an easy mark for gipsy tricksters has
possibly been misjudged. Some years
ago, when a party of these enterprising
people invaded Maoriland, some of the
most hard-headed citizens became their
victims. They asserted afterwards that
when they yielded up their good money
they seemed to be under some queer spell.
One woman who arrived just in time to pre-
vent her husband from bestowing a cash-
box containing the day’s takings on a
Romany lass had no doubt in her mind ;
she said that her husband appeared to
be hypnotised. In a court case over a
like episode the plaintiff declared that the
gipsies had made him part with his cash
in spite of his efforts. Whatever the
spell, it passed immediately the depre-
dators had departed, and the victims then
called lustily for the police.
“Becks”; “Shirley” (B. 8/7/’36) should
not be astounded at the remarkable coin-
cidence of two Maoriland golfers holing
out in one at the same hole in the same
match. The chances in a case of that
kind cannot be worked out on a strictly
mathematical basis. Marshall Hall, after
unsuccessfully defending Smith, of
“Brides in the Bath” fame, wrote to the
Bishop of Croydon, discussing the possi-
bility of coincidence even in such an
apparently clear-cut case as that. In the
course of his letter he mentioned that an
opponent at golf had holed out in one at
the first hole twice in the one day, and
also, as a case of pure coincidence, that
he and two others, cutting for the deal
at cards, had all thrice cut cards of
the same value. Quite recently I saw
“four of a kind” held in three consecu-
tive hands at poker. No! 1 didn’t hold
any of ’em.
FAME.
“Dapper, sandy-haired Earle Page—this strange
farmer-politician, his sea-blue eyes smiling joyously
as he breaks matches with his teeth —leaves England
a happy and contented man.” —“Daily Express.”
His frame is dapper and his mane is sandy,
His lambent eyes reflect the ocean’s blue;
Philosopher and something of a dandy,
No little of a politician, too;
And with a stethoscope he’s just as handy
As with a reaper or a horse’s shoe.
In short, how few in this degenerate age
Are many-sided men like Dr. Page!
The tariff on our beef he went to lighten,
An errand all of us commend—why not?
They found him what he is—a fair all-right
’tin,
Wise to the ways of plot and counterplot:
The nearest to an Admirable Crichton
This continent of ours has ever got;
A man who shone, supremely gifted chap,
At agronomics, medicine and yap.
“Nature,” as someone wrote, “will be reported,”
And statesmen, too, whose wisdom one
imbibes;
So Grafton’s sage contrived to be escorted
Throughout his British pilgrimage by scribes.
What though impatient diners loudly snorted.
And waiters circulated bitter gibes,
In sentences his suite considered fine,
He praised the produce of his country’s kine.
In carriage, char-a-banc, sedan and cutter —
Whenever and where’er he hit the breeze —
He spoke with eloquence of Queensland butter,
Mildura currants and Westralian bees;
And though he might be toying with a putter,
He’d urge the claims of Tilba Tilba cheese.
So through the land he went, from Deal to
Leith,
Burbling and breaking matches with his teeth.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Scaramouche”: A young man
arranged with our home-building society
in Brisbane for the erection of a house.
The plans were well forward when he
arrived with sad news —“Me girl s
turned me down.” But he was game and
resourceful: “I want y’ to hold up my
application until I can lay me hands on
another sheilah.” We did.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Most of our “Austra-
lianisms” are of English and American
origin, but I did think “cobber” was
ours. The illusion was dispelled the
other day when I read Wensleydale, a
pleasant account of the Yorkshire dales-
men, their country and manners, written
by a lady and illustrated by another.
On p. 70 1 came upon this:
Sometimes a man is called by his trade,
as John o’ the Post, Butcher Tom, Cobber
Dickey.
So “cobber” is just Yorkshire for
cobbler. And we didn’t invent “mugs”
either, nor did the Americans, who also
apply the term to those of whom one is
born every minute. Turn to pp. 137-138:
Wensleydale sheep, with their smooth,
blue faces, were at first called “Mugs.”
Farmers talking to each other still speak
of them as “Mugs.” They have been sent
to all parts of the world.
And the world is full of “mugs.”
* * * *
“Glen Osmond”: The barrow-pushers
are still at it. An Adelaide man who
pushed his conveyance to the top of
Mt. Lofty last year has now backed
himself for £2O to repeat the performance
with a 15-stone load, composed of one
young lady plus a quantity of lead. The
event is scheduled for August 1, and the
journey must be completed in one day.
1 can’t help speculating whether, if he is
successful in winning his wager, the
Transport Board will be down on him for
plying for hire with an unlicensed
vehicle. Still, he’s calling the trip a
“centenary” contest, so that may make
a difference.
* * * *
“Mcß.”: I stand corrected regarding
the inscriptions on the Bobbie Burns and
John McDouall Stuart statues in Adel-
aide (B. 8/7/’36). In regard to the
former, I’ve always felt that the powers
that be have treated him rather shabbily.
For one thing, he is propped up with
some marble thingummy shaped like a
cricket-pad—which seems an uncalled-for
reminder of his addiction to the barley-
bree —and for another, when the coun-
cil shifted him a few years ago they
placed him quite near the statue of
Venus, but pointedly made him face
away from her. To Rabbie that must
have been the unkindest cut of all.
* * * *
“Pardon Me”: That yarn about a
Digger who was crimed and commis-
sioned within a couple of minutes (B.
8/7/’36) sounds a bit phony to me. I
feel impelled to ask, when the adjutant
“handed him his commission,” what
form the presentation took. A Sam
Browne belt? A sword? A month’s
pay in advance? Certainly not the com-
mission. That never arrived until a year
or two later.
jj;
“Pakeha”: I read “Morehead’s” remarks
about women writers and their untidy
manuscripts with interest. Yet merit
sometimes triumphs over such deficien-
cies. A 15-year-old M.L. girl dispatched
to London a consignment of nearly 100
poems. When I saw the packet she was
tying up 1 felt sorry for her. The MSS.
were enclosed in an old file ; the per-
forator being lacking, they had been
pushed higgledy-piggledy on to the
holders, the hole being made with a pair
of blunt scissors. The typing was almost
the worst I have ever seen. After it had
gone 1 took the MSS. of my hoped-for
book, faultlessly typed and beautifully
bound, to show the little lady. She burst
into tears. But she needn’t have. Her
agents placed her batch of verses in less
than a fortnight, the second firm to which
it was submitted (Hutchinson’s) promptly
accepting it. My one immaculate offer-
ing, after going the rounds of London
.publishers, was returned at the end of
10 months “with regrets.”
* * * #
“S.T.S.”: Ceduna (S.A.) hospital has
a fresh idea for the treasures to be
placed under its foundation-stone for
posterity. To the usual daily paper and
set of coins is added, presumably as a
medical comfort, a bottle of special S.A.
port, 1905 vintage.
Jjc * #
“Logos”: There is no mystery at all
about the “jargon” used by the military
folk (B. 15/7/’36), and there never has
been. “Entrain” was surely just as sen-
sible as “encamp” or “encompass,” and
was not invented by the military folk.
Similarly, enplane and deplane have
been used in the U.S. for so long that
they are both in Webster’s, as also are
embus and debus (spelt in that way).
Certainly the War Office did not invent
them. I recollect an order issued by the
Commandant at Sandhurst anent the
arrival of the King and Queen in June,
1917, which read (in part): “As their
Majesties descend from their car ”
Why not “As their Majesties decar....”?
Simply because British military folk
haven’t got that sort of genius.
“ Housewarming , did you say?”
“Noggs”: An article in the ‘“S.M.H.”
on “England’s Old Inns” mentions among
those which have been taken over by
Trust Houses, Limited, the Dorking pub
now called “The White Horse” —
“although Mr. Pickwick and Mrs. Weller
knew it as ‘The Marquis of Granby.’ ”
Certainly, not only Mrs. Weller, but her
husband and her stepson are indissolubly
associated with the ancient tavern, not to
mention the bibulous Stiggins, but Pick-
wick himself, extensive as his acquain-
tance was with the inns of the period,
never entered the hospitable portals of
this one. All that he could have known
of it was by hearsay.
* * * *
“Tyke”: Most unprejudiced dog-
owners will admit that the faithful and
intelligent hound sometimes overdoes it.
A N.S.W. citizen stole a batch of watches
"Five 'n' a ’ alf, dig!".
and buried them tidily in the backyard
of his boarding-house. Unfortunately for
him, the police arrived in time to find
him replanting them under his mattress
after his four-legged pal had industri-
ously dug up the loot. It cost the sinner
18 months, and it can be taken for
granted he has resigned his membership
of the Tailwaggers’ Club.
“Tuart” again:—
I read almost with despair that the British
rights of “Thoroughbred” have sold and that
the deplorable production is to be exhibited
in 40,000 U.K. theatres. Also that another
young woman with no theatrical experience has
been chosen from the ranks of the great un-
known for conversion into a “film star” in
10 minutes or so. This is the third or fourth
case of the kind. It makes me wonder wheie
talkie cos. keep their brains, or whether
they are altogether lacking in brains as well as
in bodies to be kicked and souls to be
damned. When the legitimate theatre was pros-
perous, the Firm heard that a Pitt-street shop-
girl had a beautiful voice—as indeed she had
—and, taking her straight from behind the
counter, cast her for a leading part. The poor
thing was a dreadful flop, and was never heard
of again, though she had it in her to be a
success, properly trained. If talkie-makers
must experiment with novices, why don’t they
take a chance with a child or two? I loathe
child actors, but must admit that there is a
tremendous public for the brats, even though
the shrill accents of those in the business are
nearly always unpleasing to Australian ears.
The Australian child’s voice is much more
appealing, partly because it is pitched lower.
I listened to the Rodgers broadcast from Phila-
delphia. The boy’s few words came over in a
clear, true, delicately-modulated voice; and he
is only three.
![: If Hi *
“Tovarisch”; I don’t know whether
any Australian journal could win a prize
as the world’s greatest newspaper—stan-
dards differ in these matters —but there
certainly is one which would score in the
World’s Press Inanity Slakes. The other
morning when it was reported that Italy,
Germany and Austria had formed a
cross-Europe alliance, I picked up my
noonday sheet (“net weekly sales larger
than those of any other newspaper in
Australia”) and found the whole top of
its front page blazoned with the words:
“Will Be Great Fight in European Zone
Final —Germans Hurry to London.”
Visions of breathless Teutons making a
last dash to avert Armageddon were,
however, dispelled by the first paragraph,
which was all about Von Gramm and
Henkel. For that paper international
affairs seem to revolve round a tennis
ball.
*s* jjc -I- 'i*
“Chalkie”: “Now you’ve learned all
about that great prison reformer,” I
said to my S.A. class, “write a short
account of her history.” This was one:
Elizabeth Fry visited the ladies’ prisons
at Newgate and was shocked at the over-
crowded cells, the foul language of the
prisoners and the bad ventilation. She also
noticed that the prisoners had only one gar-
ment, she soon saw that this was done away
with.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I have only once been
ejected from a public meeting, and it was
done so considerately that I couldn’t feel
hurt. Four of us were passing the Ade-
laide Town Hall when we noted that a
religious revival was on. It was raining,
so in we went. On the stage were 12
chairs, 11 of them occupied by evangelists
in sombre black ; it was obvious that they
were awaiting the arrival of the twelfth.
Finally, the leader decided to wait no
longer, and rose to his feet to open the
meeting with a prayer; as we bowed
our heads I caught sight of the twelfth
evangelist tiptoeing on to the platform,
his eyes on the floor and his whole atti-
tude that of one who wishes to make a
belated entry inconspicuously. The
clown of our party chose that moment
to say in a stage whisper, “Act 1,
Scene 2. Enter a devil on all fours.”
We laughed—l fear a little loudly.
The evangelist who was praying never
faltered, but when he had intoned “Amen”
he came straight to where we sat, with
a beaming smile on his face, and
beckoned to us to follow. As if
hypnotised, we did so, with every eye
in the big hall fixed reprovingly upon
us. Still smiling, our guide led us to a
side door, opened it just wide enough
for a man to slip through, and ushered
us out with a bow that an ambassa-
dor might have envied.
* =i= * *
“0.P.”: “Kwakprak” is himself wrong
when he says (B. 1/7/’36) coalminers don’t
become “dusted.” Not coal- but stone-
dust is responsible. N.S.W. Government
regulations provide that where the
coal-dust is of a gaseous nature —that is,
in all safety-lamp mines—stone-dust must
be spread about walls and roof to pre-
vent the coal-dust from rising and lessen
the danger of an explosion. The dust
is hurtful only to those unlucky workers
who take it into their lungs, although the
percentage affected is greater than
“Kwakprak” imagines. Regulations also
provide for the damping of the dust to
prevent its rising. “Kwakprak’s” idea
that coalmining is healthy may have
applied in the days when mines had long
stoppages and intermittent work, but it
is not true nowadays, when many men
work full-time, particularly in safety-
lamp mines where good wages are ob-
tainable.
“Coif”: An insurance
case of world-wide im-
portance has completed
its first stage in London.
One Rowlandson, insured
for £43,000, committed
suicide by shooting him-
self in a taxi-cab a few
minutes before the policy
expired. The company
refused to pay, though
the life of the policy had
long exceeded the cus-
tomary year and a day
which insurance cos. in-
clude in their contracts
to minimise suicide
risks; the refusal was
based on the fact that the
suicide was sane when he
killed himself. Under the
common law such a
suicide is a murderer,
and hence cannot benefit
by his crime. Should he
be of unsound mind,
however, he would be
entitled to benefit. In
this case the jury found
that the suicide was sane. Nevertheless,
the Judge gave judgment for the amount
claimed, and an appeal will doubtless
follow.
* * si-- Sj:
“Keg”: Not only prisons harbor con-
venient creeds (B. 15/7/’36). When the
first brigade of Light Horse was worry-
ing the Bedouin on a wide desert front,
there was only one padre to each regi-
ment. When the C. of E. padre was
with ours, we were 90 p.c. R.C. Angli-
cans had to march and dress for church
service, while other denominations stayed
in camp and rested.


Cjf *Av
A
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
2«/„rire
10/»,9 d
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THE CORK TIP FED CIGARETTE OF, T MIS G E N E R AT I
POLITICAL POINTS
James, of South Australia, has again
proved in a Privy Council appeal case
that his interpretation of the Constitu-
tion is right, and that of the politicians
wrong. He says he, is thinking of enter-
ing Commonwealth politics—“probably
in ■ the U.A.P. interest.” A charming
touch that, seeing that he has taken on
the whole tribe of U.A.P. members and
beaten them all.
So far two things, and two things only,
are plain from the Privy Council judg-
ment in James v. the Commonwealth.
First, the Commonwealth must conform
to Section 92, like the States and every-
one else. Second, the quota system of
market control is illegal.
It is strange hoWmany illegalities get
by in Australia without discovery and
often without challenge. But for the
fighting ardor of James, Canberra’s
gigantic bluff in crossing its fingers and
saying it was not bound by the outstand-
ing guarantee to citizens in Section 92
would probably have succeeded. Now
The Bulletin would like to know what
is the legal basis of the prohibitions im-
posed against Japan and the U.S.A., of
which Parliament has not approved.
During seven months of “sanctions”
imports from Italy, compared with the
corresponding seven months of the pre-
vious year, fell from £302,105 sterling to
£116,976 sterling, and exports to Italy
from £592,405 Australian to £173,539
Australian. Imports for the first three
months considerably exceeded exports for
the first five months ; but imports fell
to £734 sterling in June, whereas exports
shot up to £58,308 Australian. In May
the Italians began buying a bit of wool
again.
Lyons and co. admit that “sanctions”
cost Australia about £420,000 Australian
in export trade. They don’t say what it
cost to keep the two R.A.N. warships
in the Mediteranean on a war footing.
No other Dominion had to bear such an
expense, and to the extent that it ex-
ceeded average upkeep the British Gov-
ernment should foot the bill. But no
doubt it will be passed on to the Aus-
tralian taxpayer as another instalment of
the “tune-in-to-Britain” policy.
Minister Thorby, now engaged in a
leisurely progress round the continent,
discovered at Adelaide that “the altera-
tions in tariff policy were necessitated by
our financial position overseas.” There
was not a word to this effect in the
speech introducing the Whiskard-Gullett
tariff or in the P.M.’s broadcast defend-
ing it. Thorby seems to discover some-
thing new about the crazy business
every time he reaches a new town.
Some N.S.W. Leg. Councillors wanted
to get for their body the equivalent of
the special income-tax exemption of
£2OO awarded to N.S.W. Assemblymen
by themselves. A Ministerial supporter,
defending the Assemblymen, mentioned
that the concession would, be a baga-
telle —“only £4 or £6” a man. People
not privileged to pass taxation laws would
like to award themselves concessions
amounting to “only £4 to £6” a man.
Prof. Giblin is off the Commonwealth
Grants Commission. Not, it seems, be-
cause he described the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff as “drastic, short-sighted and
influenced by rather narrow British in-
terests,” but because he “did not seek
reappointment.” F. W. Eggleston re-
mains as chairman, and with him are to
be associated Prof. Wood, of Melbourne,
and G. L. Creasy, “accountant, of Tas-
mania.” Though they supply nearly half
the tax-money distributed among the
State Governments who raise the “dis-
abilities” cry (£2,750,000 last year), N. S.
Wales and Queensland have never had a
man on this commission, which was to
have been a temporary expedient, and
seems now to have become a permanent
excrescence on the Constitution.
A report from Lithgow (N.S.W.) says
that new unemployed-relief works have
been started there, among them “a begonia
house” and “a propagation house.” This
in the place which has the small-arms
factory, and which could be made an-
other Woolwich as well as a great centre
for the distribution of electric power!
A begonia-house for Lithgow!
Fortune is smiling on one of the two
Lloyds in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly—
the one who is member for Concord.
He is also chairman of the County
Council set up by Spooner to run the
POLE-SITTING CONTEST: ONE TO WIN.
electricity business that used to be the
City Council’s, and he not only draws
two salaries and possesses a railway and
tramway pass but has the use of a
brand-new car, complete with chauffeur.
He borrowed car and chauffeur re-
cently for a trip to Victoria to inspect
something or other, taking with him an-
other County Councillor. There are
five altogether, and when the interesting
pair got back the other three went off
pop. A sort-of-a-kind of inquiry is to
be held.
Tas. Labor took 16 days to discover
how the State had got on under its direc-
tion during the financial twelvemonth
and then reported a debit balance of
£129,686. Not so bad as was anticipated,
but—seeing that the Government got
£450,000 in one special grant from the
Commonwealth as well as interest and
sinking-fund allowances, road-money,
apple and fertiliser bounties and so
forth —a poor showing. The £450,000
alone was equivalent to nearly £2 a head.
It now seems unlikely that the Adel-
aide Government will add lotteries to the
blessings it has conferred upon its people,
among which it counts betting shops. Its
fancy now inclines to a hospital tax like
the Westralian (l|d. in the £1 of income),
which costs little to collect, being in
most cases deducted from pay envelopes
by employers. Westralia runs semi-Gov-
ernment lotteries likewise, but hospitals
get far more benefit from the tax.
The Sydney Government complacently
reports that its No. 2 income tax yielded
£6,190.292 in 1935-36, an increase of
£927,671 on the 1934-35 year. It gener-
ally calls the thing its “special income
tax,” but “unemployment tax” was the
term used in a table published last week.
Actually, a large part of the proceeds is
spent on “social services,” chiefly family
endowment, and no small part of it is
obtained by taxing income from other
States which have no family endowment.
Commonwealth tax on £50,000 of
earned income, which gives employment,
amounts to £20,579 4s. 2d. (Then, of
course, there are State income taxes
—two in each of four States.) If
some gambler flukes a £50,000 prize
in a lottery he gets it free of Com-
monwealth tax. It would be no
hardship to him or to any other lottery-
prizewinner if the Commonwealth re-
enacted the 12j p.c. tax abandoned in
Bruce’s time and applied the proceeds to
reduction of the excessive taxes on
income from personal exertion and
property.
Russia is another country which is
struggling with a bad wheat harvest.
Since 1929 it has always been going to
grow enough wheat to wreck the capi-
talist markets, but, in spite (or because)
of five-year-plans and Communist farms,
it has never got within coo-ee of doing it.
From July 1, 1931, to June 30, 1935, the
latest figures available, it actually im-
ported £540,280 sterling worth of wheat
and flour from Australia.
With recent conversions, Maoriland
owes the British £159,000,000 and is pay-
ing just on p.c. (sterling, of course)
for the use of it. Last year it converted
£8,000,000 of 5 per cents, at £3 4s. Bd.
p.c.; this year, having £1,869,989 in
hand towards £5,869,989 about to mature,
it got £4,000,000 at £3 2s. p.c. Naturally
it feels that 4} p.c. plus 25 p.c. exchange
is “over the odds.” It will be difficult to
convince individual bondholders of this,
but, even though the “sanctionist” press
repeats its roar of “default,” there is no
harm in trying.
Victoria has eight salaried Ministers,
and after 15 months of office the Dun-
stan Government has discovered that it
needs a ninth. Introducing the necessary
bill, Dunstan began by saying that, be-
sides State departments, Victoria had set
up “some 58 commissions, committees
and boards,” wages boards excluded. The
“argument” really told against his case,
but only Argyle suggested it; and mem-
bers who cherish hopes of being one of
the nine considered the ex-Premier hyper-
critical.
According to figures quoted in Vic.
Assembly recently—they were fairly
accurate then, but are liable to be
changed for the worse at any moment —
amounts paid in Ministerial salaries ex-
hibit curious incongruities.
N.S.W. (15 Ministers) .. .. £23,420
Commonwealth (14) .. .. 21,300
Queensland (10) 12,800
Westralia (8) 12,200
Victoria (12) 10,000
S. Aus. (6) 7,750
Tasmania (8) 6,500
In effect the tale is told (and people
swallow it) that N.S.W. not only needs
more Ministers than the Commonwealth,
of which it is a part, but can afford ro
pay them a trifle better. And Westralia
disburses to members of its Cabinet a
good deal more than Victoria, with
nearly four times as many inhabitants.
N.S.W. Government railway revenue
was up £1,006,526 for the year to June
30, reaching £17,707,357, and expendi-
ture increased £389,683 to £11,930,981.
Interest and exchange charges are not
given, but, according to the department’s
reckoning, they amounted to £6,480,470
in the 1934-35 year. The department is
having the use of heaps of loan money
free of interest (though the Government
pays just on 4 p.c.) for “reconditioning.”
Its assertion that “the deficit was re-
duced to £700,000” is certain to be chal-
lenged by the Auditor-General, who
dryly reported last year that “operating
expenses were understated to the extent
that insufficient provision has been made
for depreciation and renewals.”
The latest about our wandering old
boys is that Menzies has written a book
—no, it has nothing to do with the Privy
Council—and that Stevens howled dis-
mally after James won his case, and that
Page set out for the Continent after
interesting a “Daily Express” man by
“breaking matches with his teeth.” No-
thing has been heard of Manning for a
long time, but he is vaguely believed to
be on his way back. Manning set out
in December to thump an unnecessary
brief, and it was discovered that he
had overstayed his leave without the
necessary formalities having been ob-
served. Still, these little matters can
always be arranged.


ONLY ONE THING FOR IT.


Stott foster WITH the motor oil that is
DRAG-FREE
sa
(D
THE NEW
MOTOR ffl 11
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sydney half a century ago knew
George Black, dead at 82, as a
slim, active, aggressive Labor man,
with a dapper hat which sat straight on
the top of his head and a dark mous-
tache like that of Italy’s King Hum-
bert, but not so large. Later the mous-
tache greyed and lost some of its stiff-
ness, and ultimately disappeared, reveal-
ing a smooth, kindly face which did not
look its age perched on scholarly
shoulders which often were to be seen
bowed over the tables of the Mitchell
Library in Sydney. When Black was
18, with a Scottish accountancy training,
he came to Australia, was one of the
earliest Bulletin contributors, and was
its sub-editor 1888-91 (the Rev. W. J.
Grant said at his funeral that his best
work was done during this period), leaving
to join the “Workman” when he won a
West Sydney seat in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. Later he changed his constituency,
was defeated for Gipps in ’9B, edited the
“Worker” for five years, sat for Namoi
in 1910-17 (he was war-time Agricultural
and Health Minister and Chief Sec.
under Holman) and ultimately was nomi-
nated M.L.C., leaving the Council on the
Stevens reorganisation. Black was a
founder of the Australian Labor party,
and wrote its early history in 1910. His
picture appears on some of its yellow
covers. In his younger days he was a
front-rank speaker, and had a pretty and
sometimes caustic wit which opponents
dreaded. He wrote scholarly prose and
passable verse.
At the time of his death, Black had
been a Bulletin contributor for 56
years—he wrote for the second issue.
He had known Archibald in an earlier
day in Melbourne, and Mrs. William
Macleod, in her biography of her hus-
band, records that it was Black who
solved the mystery of Archie’s assump-
tion of the names Jules Franqois instead
of his legal John Feltham —he assumed
them during a brief period on the stage.
Black always regretted leaving The Bul-
letin, but it was an office rule that no
one holding a political job could remain
on the staff.
S. McGREGOR REID.
Coventry pictures this week the face
that hides the dynamo which is S.
McGregor Reid, president of the Austra-
lian Associated Chambers of Commerce
and a past president of the S. Austra-
lian Chamber of Commerce. The list
of boards on which Reid sits would
fill about half a column, but it is
not so long that he cannot find time to
be a driving force on all of them and to
give a good deal of his meagre spare
time to the cause of charity.
Lord Atkin, who was born in Queens-
land, gave the Privy Council judgment
for James in that eminently successful
litigant’s 1932 case. He was not on the
recent tribunal which also found for the
South Australian. Counsel engaged in-
cluded Australians other than Bob Men-
zies and Harry Manning —Wilfred
Barton, son of Australia’s first Prime
Minister, and Adelaide barrister Ward.
Among the English counsel were Sir
Stafford Cripps and Gavan Simonds, who
assisted the commission that condemned
the Budget-leakage business.
Born at Hawkesbury (N.S.W.), one
of four brothers who all became Method-
ist ministers, W. J. Walker held various
local pulpits from 1891 to 1908 and
again 1920-26. The rest of his work in
S.A. Walker has preached his last
sermon in Adelaide, at 68. He was
president of “Conference” in 1933.
C. E. Eddy is one of the spearheads
in the attack on cancer in Australia. An
M.Sc. of Melbourne, where he gradu-
ated under the wing of T. H. Laby,
F.R.S., he soon made a place for him-
self as a research worker. He won a
Rockefeller scholarship and spent two
years in the Caven-
dish Laboratory at
Cambridge under
Rutherford, study-
ing beta radiation ;
he took his D.Sc.
on his return to
Melbourne, At
national cancer
conferences Eddy
has been one of
the forefront group
for years, and his
lucid and logical
lectures have made
his name known
throughout the
medical world.
Last year the Com-
monwealth took
him over as radio
physicist and
specialist advisory
Radio Physics Personified.
to the various cancer clinics. Horner
in his picture on this page does no
more than justice to Eddy’s good looks
and attractive personality. He is a very
human scientist, popular with the pro-
fession.
The burly, dark-headed figure of
Frank Marien has been seen for the last
time on the Sydney Inky Way. He first
appeared, bright and eager, on the old
“D.T.” staff in the pre-war days—-when
that organisation represented the cream
of reporterdom—having been captain of
St. Joseph’s College, member of a head-
of-the-river crew and full-back of a
Rugby XV which was never beaten in
a first-class match. Both his sons have
followed in his athletic footsteps at his
old school. Marien worked, for the
“.Sunday Times” for a while, did
a publicity turn with the Firm, became
news-editor of the Sydney “Sun,” and
was editor successively of “Truth” and
“Smith’s Weekly.” He was a capable
experimental mechanic, and his work-
shop was his hobby, but in later years
all his activities were hampered by
serious ill-health. He was only 45 when
he died.
Three R.A.A. wing-commanders have
been promoted to be group captains a
rank equivalent to that of army colonel.
F. H. Macnamara was in the daring
Not 1 Squadron in Palestine which in-
cluded Ross Smith. He won a V.C. dur-
ing a raid before Gaza when, seriously
wounded in the leg, he flew down to
rescue D. W. Rutherford, who had
crashed from under the noses of the
Turks. He was so badly injured that he
could not control his old Martynside, so
the pair got into Rutherford’s bullet-
spattered machine and took off when the
enemy was only a few yards away. Mac-
namara flew Rutherford home 70 miles.
H. N. Wrigley, like Mac, was formerly
a Victorian school-teacher. He earned
a D.F.C. with the 3rd Squadron, and
later an A.F.C. for making the first flight
from Melbourne to Darwin and mapping
the Australian section of the London
route. The third man promoted was De
la Rue —Hyppolyte Ferdinand —who
hailed from Auburn (N.S.W.), became a
sailor, served with the Royal Air
Force and the R.A.F. and came home
with a D.F.C. and the Italian silver
medal for valor. He has been in com-
mand of No. 1 Training School at Point
Cook.
R.C. Archbishop Duhig, of Brisbane,
has been named Commendatore of the
Crown of Italy, which is the second-
highest order of Italian knighthood.
A few years ago Edgar Percival was to
be seen tootling round N.S.W. in a flying
machine which looked as if it were tied
up with string. He was regarded as a
theorist by designers, as a crank by fly-
ing enthusiasts and as a public menace
by those who flew with him —only skill
kept him and them
afloat. Now he is
one of Britain's
leading designers.
His machines are
to the fore in all
British races.
Kingsford Smith
used one (Southern
Cross Junior) when
he broke the Lon-
don-Australia light
’plane record.
Knight Con n o p
Guthrie won the
1936 King’s Cup
with a Percival
Vega on a handi-
cap of 25ni ; n.
33sec., and Perci-
val himself, flying
one of his Mews,
owned by the
Duke of Glouces-
ter, from scratch was first home, fourth
in the race and did the last lap at 211
m.p.h. This is the second year that
’planes of his design have scored in the
classic. He won the prize for the fastest
speed in his class for single-engined
’planes over 150 h.p.
Justice Evatt, of the High Court, is the
author of a work on constitutional his-
tory and practice which has been pub-
lished by the Oxford Press. The book
has been described by the “Law Journal”
as “a noteworthy and remarkable con-
tribution to the law of the Constitution.”
When Dr. Evatt was appointed to the
Bench some six years ago, The Bulletin
predicted that the busy young K.C. would
be an outstanding success. So it has
proved. His judgments have been re-
peatedly affirmed by the Privy Council.
Evatt and Owen Dixon have made im-
portant contributions to the work of
learned journals here and elsewhere.
The veteran Dr. R. S, Rogers, one of
Australia’s admitted authorities on
orchids, has been awarded an Adelaide
University D.Sc. for a scientific thesis on
his pet subject.
Out past the ancient pioneer butter
factory which stands beside the Kiama-
Jamberoo road in the Illawarra (N.S.W.),
George Grey has a farm on a hilltop
where his ancestors settled a century
ago. Much of the land was originally
poor, but generations of Greys have dug
out its stones and laid them in rough
Who said Illawarra?
walls between fields on which the sole
of pasture is like velvet. But for the
occasional coral trees which, in season,
make a splash df scarlet on the hillsides,
the Greys’ landscape might be a trans-
ported piece of Northern Ireland, from
which they originally came. While
Kiama hand-made butter still went out
in kegs to Sydney, the Greys began to
breed cattle, George is one of the
fathers of the Illawarra —Australia’s
own breed —and his rich, red cham-
pion stock are scattered round 7000
miles of Australian coastal dairying dis-
tricts. His portrayer has caught him as
he looks in one of those gently indignant
moments when some critic has raised the
Scottish ancestry in him with an in-
sinuation that his cattle are a “fancy”
breed.
Ivor Hele, winner of the £250 cen-
tennial prize in S.A. for a historical
painting, is only 24. As a brilliant school-
boy he was obviously under the influ-
ence of Norman Lindsay, to the great
benefit of his line drawing, but presently
he developed individual style. He has
already contrived two European tours.
The prize picture is a crowded grouping
of the Proclamation at Glenelg in
December, 1836. Another local man, Max
Ragless, gets second prize; William
Rowell, of Victoria, the third. Both
have imagined scenes from Sturt’s epic
boat-journey from the Darling to the
Murray mouth and back in 1830.
Birdwood is the only war-time full
general on the lists of the C.M.F., and
has been a field-marshal since 1925. He
belongs to one of the best-known Indian
service and military families. His father,
a Judge of the Indian High Court, was
son of an Indian general and of a daugh-
ter of a descendant of the Impey family,
of which the founder was that N Elijah
• who was Warren Hastings’s associate
and, as CJ. of Bengal, tried Nuncomar.
An uncle of “Birdie” is a medical knight
who wrote widely on Oriental subjects
from carpets and John Company history
to the cultivation of carrots in India. He
was the de facto founder of Primrose
Day. He may celebrate his seventy-first
birthday in Australia. His son, heir to
his baronetcy, has a commission in a
Hussar regiment.


T j
Let winters winds
blow ever so COLD
I)
V
U
VI
\
s wen /
is r
zlt i/ 7
If you have the glow of health you can laugh at Winter’s wind and rain;
otherwise, it is a dangerous season for our human-hind
And the rule that all can follow is this: Drink Wolfe s Schnapps every day
for your health s sake. Take it hot with lemon at bedtime. For Wolfe’s
Schnapps is the purest of all gin spirits. No other spirit has its remarkable
medicinal properties. It cleanses the bloodstream, tones up the system and
guards you as nothing else can against the ills and cbills that come in
Winters train. Wolfes Schnapps, too. is as good for women as for men.
ALWAYS KEEP MOTTLE IN THE HOME • TAKE IT HOT WITH LEMON AT BEDTIME
,o ' W .. \ • \>t
f


m m
r j
a**
iLjff I
111
M|S||a*gS!
•HaAggrr
■
WS
s
« i
JS
i
BM
p ; f -'
*lHb3£ rfrf
& mm
fsd
hHMh
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS. FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMJ>ERDOWN, SYDNEY.
fs
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
df
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
MCPHERSONS Piy. LTD., Melbourne,.. Adelaide,- Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1926.. 207,176 10 p.c. = 148,977 1 RQQ 791
' Written oil premises, £12,500 f 45,699 721,649
1927.. 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 t , 9 909
Written off premises, £12,500 ) '* ’
1928.. 211,960 10 p.c. = 172,139 1 9Q S9l 7 „o fi72
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 ) 97 o a7 a9l n r,q
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1930.. 204,956 9 p.c. = 157,500 I a - a - 1( -
Written off premises, £lO,OOO j
1931.. 142,291 6i p.c.= 113,750 1 18 rdl fi77
Written off premises, £lO,OOO f 18,541 877 > 056
1932.. 74,088 4 p.e.= 70,000 1
Written off premises, £2,500 ) ''>™ 8/8,044
1933.. 75,540 4 p.e.= 70,000 ) „ 001
Written off premises, £2,500 ) 0,1,40 881,084
1934.. 09,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 1 <j 7 o nor
Written off promises, £2,500 ) 8
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 _ R7Q „ R .
Written off premises, £2500 ) “
1930.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 1 „„„ OQr
Written off premises, £2500 ) 4,148 879, 93j
The worst drought experienced by the
western pastoral areas in Queensland
broke during the last term. Prices for
both wool and beef strengthened, the
sugar cheque was larger, dairy-farmers
enjoyed good returns, and there was a
sustained demand from manufacturers
and retailers for accommodation. A
growth of £194,986 in deposits and of
£43,679 in bills payable was accom-
panied by an expansion of £717,848 in
advances. Liquids were drawn upon for
£542,451, and £64,147 of the intermin-
able inscribed deposit stock was bought
and cancelled at a profit to the co.
Still, after setting aside whatever was
considered necessary for contingencies,
the board of the Q.N., which does about
nine-tenths of its business in its home
State, wrote the year’s net result only
£1456 better than the 1935 figure at
£73,648, or little more than one-third of
the profit claimed seven years ago. The
£73,648, which appears to have come
wholly from investments, was a mere
2.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined), or 4.2
p.c. on capital alone as against 4.1, 4,
4.3, 4.2, 8.1, 11.7, 12.1 and 12.3 p.c.
back to 1928. The div., which had
averaged a shade over 10 p.c. for the
decade to the close of accounts in
1929, was kept at 4 p.c. The market,
which expects a bit better, prices the £5-
paid shares at £5 9s, as against £5 3s. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 3.6 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 4\ p.c. on his
money eounts on a 5 p.c. distribution,
which would call for £13,852 more profit
than was claimed for the last term.
Now consider these figures:
1930. 1933. 1935. 19S0.
Rill (3 £ £, £ £
capital .. 1,759,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,760,000
Interminable
stock .. 3,091,669 3,015,096 2,814,989 2,750,842
Bills, etc. 348,219 302,531 805,362 349,041
Deposits .. 8,657,228 7,872,214 8,451,035 8,646,021
Liquid
assets . . 3,790,277 4,612,512 4,827,452 4,285,001
Advances ..10,423,181 8,694,760 8,860,449 9,578,297
Premises .. 527,173 549,253 547,273 547,542
The most encouraging feature there is
the growth in advances, which were 110
p.c. of deposits at June 30 as against
104 p.c. a year earlier and 120 p.c. in
1930, Liquids, which amounted to 47.6
p.c. of liabilities to the public, include
£2,295,409 (down £81,152) of Austra-
lian Consols. Whatever profit there was
on the year’s realisations was whisked
away to inner reserves. Of the figure
at which premises appear, £170,000 is
revenue-producing. Of the growth of
£194,986 in deposits, £165,397 was
interest-bearing. The interminable de-
posit stock (a reminder of the ’nineties)
is costing the co. 3£ p.c., or half of one
per cent, more than it now pays for
two-year deposits. Including this stock
with the co.’s own funds, it was holding
only 335. sd. of the public’s money for
every pound of it's own when the books
closed. It is a very strong position, but
it all means low earning power, though
the recent rise in advance and deposit
rates should help in this connection.
The trade war with Japan and the
U.S.A., following tariff increases and im-
port restrictions, has somewhat obscured
an otherwise encouraging outlook. One
immediate result has been a drop in wool
prices, ranging from 5 p.c. for best
fleeces to from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. for
inferior sorts. Prospects for sugar, meat,
dairy produce and wheat are all brighter.
New Zealand Farmers’ Fertilizer Co.
Towards Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £
1926.. 27,156 7} p.c. = 19.650 7.506 12.546
1927.. 25,187 74 „ „ 19,650 5,537 17,883
1928.. 17,626 6 „ „ 15,720 1,906 19,789
1929.. 27,655 8 „ „ 20,959 6,096 20,485
May,
1930*. 30,975 8 „ „ 24,453 6,522 33.007
1931.. 4,649 Nil 4,649 37,650
1932.. 15,785 5 p.c. = 13,099 2,686 40,342
1933.. 13,281 5 „ „ 13,099 182 40,524
1934.. 17,718 5 „ „ 13,099 4,619 45,143
1935.. 18,837 51 „ „ 14,410 4,427 49,570
1936.. 19,374 51 „ „ 14,410 4,964 54,534
‘Fourteen months.
There has been a marked increase - in
the average volume of farm and pastoral
production in the Dominion since 1928,
thanks partly to the assistance the Govern-
ment has given farmers to purchase top-
dressing. In this way the Government
has helped to take a little of the sting
out of low prices for primary products.
The fertiliser cos. patched up their differ-
ences and lowered their selling prices,
thus enabling farmers to reap the bene-
fits of lower costs before they were real-
ised. As turnover improved, unit costs
were reduced, and the Government has
been able to lower its subsidy to manu-
facturers without bringing about a rise
in prices or damage to the net earnings
of the cos.
This one, whose works are at Auck-
land and New Plymouth, has thus been
able to pay a steady 5 p.c. div. and
greatly improve its financial position de-
spite slump. For the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts, gross earnings
(£84,383) improved £3570. Including
something for depreciation, repairs, re-
newals, etc., exes. (£65,009) took all but
£537 of the increase, leaving the net re-
sult at 7.3 p.c. on capital, compared with
7.1, 6.8, 5, 5.7, 1.7, 10.1 and 10.5 p.c.
back to 1929, The div. was kept at
p.c.
During the year £17,595 was clipped
off the overdraft and £1471 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, mak-
ing total reduction in the outside debt
£93,575 since 1930:—-
J 924. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £261,745 £261,996 £261,995 £261,995
Overdraft .. 22,786 197,099 114,205 90,610
Sundry creditors 46,008 41,126 49,511 48,040
Land, buildings
and plant.. 278,684 421,498 383,300 371,681
Stocks . . 10.364 97,811 69,361 55,705
Book debts . . 35,906 38,302 36,959 48,133
Cash, etc. .. 409 70 70 70
Last year further additions were made
to buildings and plant, but £11,619 more
was written off than was spent on these
items. Stocks were reduced by £13,656,
and debtors’ balances increased by
£11,174. When the books closed the debt
exceeded more or less liquids, including
stocks, by £40,742, an improvement of
£15,584 over the twelvemonth.
What the future holds for the business
will largely depend upon the extent to
which Government measures force up
costs. At 21s. 9d. (par a year ago) the
fully-paid pound shares return 5 p.c. on
the basis of last year’s distribution. The
cover is 245. 2d. in net tangibles, all fixed
assets, worth what they can earn.
Meggitt, Ltd.
( Dividends \
Pief.*
May. Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. -5,892 4000 Nil 105,347
1927.. 30,115 4000 61 p.e. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 74 „ „ 24,552 98,218
1929.. 31,385 4000 74 „ „ 24,552 95,385
1930.. 31,628 4000 6J „ „ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 1|„ „ 6,138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 24 „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ ~ 16,368 97.245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 3400 84 „ ~ 27,820 64,496
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
Considering the problems it was up
against, Meggitts, the largest manufac-
turer of linseed-cake and -oil in Australia,
has put up a splendid performance dur-
ing the last half-dozen difficult years,
thanks to the long-sighted policy of the
management. One difficulty has been to
find a market for the oil, a ton of which
results from every two tons of cake pro-
duced. The position in this respect has
been largely remedied since chairman
Phillips induced Michael Nairn and Co.,
the Scottish lino, people, to set up here
about eight years ago, and made arrange-
ments with Blundell, Spence and Co. to
use their trade-marks. Another trouble,
which bit deeply into the ’3l and ’32
figures, was fluctuations in the exchange
value of currencies—the co. buys its raw
material (linseed) mainly from India and
S. America.
Of recent years Meggitts have turned
their attention to the dairying districts,
where the demand for linseed-cake, which
increases the supply of milk and enriches
the butter-fats, has continued to expand.
Because of this, steadier exchange,
smaller fluctuations in the price of lin-
seed, recovery in the pastoral and paint
industries, and the progress of the lino,
business, they have been able to make
a rapid recovery.
During the last term the co. further
reduced its selling prices, and both the
oil and cake sections of the business
showed considerable expansion. After
providing for taxation and other contin-
gencies, and adding £8426 net to the
reserve for depreciation (£36,376, not
treated as a free reserve herein), there was
a sharp spring of £13,125 in net earnings,
which were the second-best in the co.’s
history. They were sufficient to pay 10
p.c. on both lots of prefs. (there are 20,000
firsts and a like number of seconds, both 10
p.c. cumulative, less 22\ p.c. statutory cut)
and show 12.2 p.c, on the £327,369 of
ord. capital. Actually an all-round 8i p.c.
was distributed, of which 24 p.c. to the
ords. was labelled bonus. Under the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act, the
prefs. advance with the ords. from 7f
p.c. to 10 p.c.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in an all-round growth in
balance-sheet figures:
1928. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £367,309 £367,369 £867,869 £367,369
Liabilities .. 44,419 61,113 110,124 142,076
Premises and
plant .. 158,733 162,717 162,909 165,744
Stocks .. 86,257 113,066 124,123 140,558
Book debts . . 58,314 43,178 46,231 02,251
Cash, etc. . . 24,543 17,875 105,165 132,626
Including stocks (up £16,435), the more
or less liquid surplus (£193,359) was
£27,964 stronger than at the previous
balance. The growth of £31,952 in
liabilities was mainly on account of
drafts for linseed shipments (£111,402,
up £24,102). Debtors’ balances increased
by £16,Q20 and cash by £27,461,
The outlook, though not quite so en-
couraging as it was a year ago, favors
another satisfactory showing. The £1 ords.
at 28s. 3d. (21s. 3d. a year ago) return
6 p.c, on an p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the first prefs. return 6.3 p.c.
at 275. The seconds have not come on
to the market for some time. The net
tangible cover per pound of paid capi-
tal is £l5 2s. lOd. firsts, £l4 2s. lOd.
seconds, and 16s. Id. ords.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ— To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
1926.. 54,181 12-Jp.c.= 31,250 3,732 19,199 208,616
1927.. 52,595 14“ „ ~35,000 4,824 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed, £lB,BlO .. .. 240,696
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. =25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929.. 46,976 12* „ ~31,250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930.. 40,180 12|„ ~ 31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
1931.. 17,572 10 ~,,25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 „ ~20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 ~,,20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 ~,,20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
“We are not earning our dividend;
only our investments enable us to earn
sufficient interest to provide for the
shortage,” says the chairman of this
stoutly-ribbed Rockhampton merchandis-
ing co., which has strong connections in
the central-west of the State. One
trouble is the burden of taxation ; an-
other was drought, which broke about
two months before the books were ruled
off. It resulted in heavy losses of live-
stock and further extension of accommo-
dation to the co.’s pastoral customers.
Moreover, instead of restocking their
country, many pastoralists prefer to await
the natural increase from ewes left alive,
which means a succession of good
seasons and satisfactory prices before
they get into their stride again. At head-
quarters, on the coast, the outlook is better.
There was little change in gross earn-
ings, which were a shade over two-thirds
of the 1928-29 figures, and a tight hold
was kept upon exes.:
Cross Oross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1927.. £148,900 £96,305 | 1932.. £88,163 £60,413
1928.. 127,775 90,357 | 3933.. 81,298 57,882
1929.. 128,432 81,456 11934.. 82,440 55,370
1930.. 124,241 84,061 | 1935.. 87,653 56,315
1931.. 92,044 74,472 | 1936.. 87,592 55,789
Thus the net result reached 12.7 p.c. on
capital as against 12.5, 10.8, 9.3, 11.1,
6.4, 14.8 and 17 p.c. back to 1929. The
div. was kept at 8 p.c.; for over 20 years
to the close of accounts in ’32 it was
steady at 10 p.c., with a 2\ p.c. sweet-
ener added during the fattest periods.
vSince the beginning of this century,
paid capital has advanced from £93,750
to its present figure (£250,000) with the
aid of only £11,250 of cash subscrip-
tions ; and at the end of May reserves
were heaped £32,749 higher than paid
capital. Further, with the whole of the
capital and £106,592 besides invested
outside the business in Consols
(£220,000), other securities (£89,470, up
£44,641) and cash and deposits (£47,122,
down £38,722), the business doesn’t have
to turn in much to enable an 8 p.c. div.
to be paid. Here is the position so far
as balance-sheet figures show it:
1926. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £2p0,000
Liabilities .. 97,971 36,115 32,651 33,068
Stock .. .. 255,266 208,298 134,871 135,930
Book debts .. 164,467 76,095 35,568 38,364
Cash . . .. 42,478 63,676 85,844 47,122
Freeholds and 1 f
plant . . t 131,855 243,568-1 65,861 '66,292
Investments .. J ' [ 264,828 309,471
Including stocks, the year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid Surplus
(£497,819) was £9359. It is plain that the
co. is very well equipped to extend activi-
ties as opportunity'offers and/or return
part of its capital.
At 38s. 6d. (365. a year ago) the well-
secured pound shares—they are covered
by 425. 7d. in net tangibles—return 4.1
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-op.
Divi- Bonus
dends. to Written
April, Profit. 6 p.c. Clients. Off. Reserves.
1926.. 3,092 1496 2,000 10,818
7 p.c.
1927.. 5,005 1745 3,252 10,886
1928.. 5,263 1745 1,281 500 12,623
1929.. 9,309 1745 1,902 1,700 16,585
Rebates.
1930.. 11,623 1745 4,403' 2,500 19.560
1931 .. 13,226 1745 5,473 2,500 23,068
1932.. 15,155 1745 6,610 4,750 25,118
1933.. 10,585 1745 10,171 3,500 26,287
1934.. 13,841 1745 5.355 33,028
1935.. 17,748 1745 7,809 8,000 33,222
lys6.. 12,946 1745 11,300 33,123
The co.’s freezing works are at Victoria
Dock, Melbourne, and a lot of the butter
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


dgh
WILL BOIL. KEEP THEIR SHAPE
WONT SHRINK
It takes good trousers to stand up to the rough
jobs on the land—but INGOT TWEEDS are
doing it. In fact, you’ll find them hard to wear
out.
Soaking rains or repeated boiling won’t shrink
them or spoil their shape.
INGOT TWEED TROUSERS are tested in
the factory for strength and wear—and they’re
tested thoroughly, under every climatic and work-
ing condition, by thousands of outdoor men in
every Australian State, who buy them again and
again.
Get a pair yourself and prove their value.
£lOO Goodwill Token
If any purchaser of Ingot Tweed Trousers be
fatally injured whilst wearing these garments,
Ingot Mills, Ltd., 77 York Street, Sydney, will
make a present of £ 1 00 to his next of kin.
Ask your stores for full details of this Goodwill offer.
i
ji
y
..4
\
TWEED
FOk THE MAN ON THE LAND
AN
m
PRODUCT


gfh
Belvedere i>s> Btilycotßt
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
mJ -i %
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
df
hf
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and. Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five, public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
exported from Victoria passes through
them; other lines include meat, rabbits
and all kinds of butter-making equip-
ment. One test of service in such co-
operative concerns is the cost at which
they handle the produce received. This
is not ascertainable from V.B.F.’s pub-
lished figures, but the accounts do
show that divs., bonuses and rebates
combined averaged over 32 p.c. p.a. for
the 15 years to the close of accounts in
1935, which suggests that the business is
in able hands.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, both turnover and profit
broke all previous records, the chairman
says, notwithstanding a drop of over
23,000 tons in Australia’s butter exports
for the year to June 30, owing to seasonal
conditions. Commission earnings, etc.
(£22,642), were up £3730. Including pro-
vision for taxation, etc., exes. (£9696)
took £723 of the increase, leaving the
declared net result £3007 better at
£12,946, of which £11,300 was struck off
for depreciation. The div. was kept at
7 p.c. No mention is made of any re-
bate to clients, whereas £7809 was so
distributed in the previous term, and in-
cluded with profits in the table. The
scrip is held mainly by other factories.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances;
1922. 1931. 1935, 1936.
Paid capital .. £24,762 £24,930 £24,930 £24,930
Liabilities .. 40,181 27,831 23,452 25,365
Premises and plant 26,847 29,229 29,621 22,092
Stocks . . . . 3,358 5,206 1,620 1,771
Book debts .. 29,398 22,787 33,075 46,111
Cash . . . . 123 219 197 202
Shares in other cos. 15,594 25,186 28,386 28,386
The freezing works, which cost £37,899,
now stand at £9OOO in the books. Out-
side investments, mainly shares in the
Co-op, Box Co., are reported sound and
good dividend-payers.
As for the current term, Victoria has
experienced the best June rainfall for
years, and there has been a sharp rise in
the London price for Australian choicest,
owing partly to lighter shipments and
partly to increased demand. If London
demand remains as it is, Australia’s cold-
storage stocks will be considerably re-
duced during the next few months.
Encouraged by the outlook for base
metal and reduction in mining and re-
covery costs, Zinc Corp. has decided to
further explore and develop the southern
continuation of the lode at the Barrier
(N.S.W.). Here the broad or productive
portion of the lead lode passes out of
the Corporation’s ground at a vertical
depth of over 2000 ft., which means that
a lot of money will have to be spent on
shaft-sinking, haulage equipment, etc.
To carry out the work, the parent has
thrown off a subsidiary, New Broken Hill
Consolidated, with a nominal capital of
£600,000 in ss. shares. Of these Zinc
Corp, will take 125,000 paids for trans-
fer of its southern leases. Shareholders,
including the Corporation, in the adjoin-
ing Barrier South Co. are asked to ex-
change their scrip on the basis of five
shares in the new co. for every £1 pref.,
and one share in the new co, for every two
2s. ords. After that they are to be offered
one for one, at par, for cash. Also, share-
holders (prefs. and ords.) in Zinc Corp.
are to be offered the new co.’s scrip, one
for one, at par. This issue has been
underwritten free by the Corporation.
Based on the par value of shares in the
new co.. Barrier South ords. are now
worth around 6s. 3d. (Aust. currency) in
the market; they could be picked up at
a few pence some months ago. No hint
has been given as to the quantity and
value of ore likely to be opened up, or
what the board’s intentions are in con-
nection with treatment.
* * <: *
Austral Malay Tin has launched its
first goldmining offshoot, Austral New
Zealand Mining, Ltd., to dredge ground
on the Ciutha River (M.L.). Nominal
capital is £605,000 in 600,000 £1 ords.
and 100,000 deferreds of Is. each, rank-
ing equally with the ords. A.M.T. takes
5000 f.-p. ords. as vendor, and 35,000 de-
ferreds for cash. Of the remaining ords.
205.000 are offered first to Austral
Malay shareholders, nine for every five
shares held in the parent. Terms are
3s. 6d. application, a like amount on
allotment and the balance in (probably)
2s. calls. The other 390,000 ords. and
65.000 deferreds are in pickle. The de-
ferreds will not come on to the market.
The new co. is to have first option over
any further suitable areas in M.L. dis-
closed by the parent’s prospecting cam-
paign.
* * * *
Wallace Smith, the chairman, and other
directors of the Emperor (Fiji) have’
come back from a visit to the Tavua
field ; they were accompanied by Ellis
Davis, of Charles Ruwolt Pty., Mel-
bourne. Ruwolts have been given the
job of consulting and construction en-
gineers in connection with tne new
10,000-ton-monthly milling plant which is
to treat the Emperor ore ; with the exist-
ing pilot plant the mill will have a capa-
city of 12,000 tons. After coarse crush-
ing, and then fine grinding in the rolls,
the scheme involves roasting the whole
feed, followed by cyanidation of the
calcine. Emperor shares have strength-
ened lately, being steady above 16s. last
week. The plant should be right.
Ruwolts know as much about mining
machinery as anyone in the Common-
wealth.
* * *
“Ex-Prospector”: Although the only
thing I ever struck there five years ago
was a crocodile, Kelsey Creek, 15 miles
outside Proserpine (N.Q.), has again
jumped into the news with a crushing at
Chillagoe of three tons (from Thorogood
and Sinclair’s lease) which averaged 15oz.
gold ; another three-ton parcel averaged
2Loz. First opened early in 1935, the
lease had, prior to the crushings just
mentioned, returned 380 fine ounces of
gold and 45 fine ounces of silver
from 59 tons. The reef varies from
3in. to 2ft. in width, but the ore is the
richest N.Q. has known for years.
* * * *
The most important developments at
Bendigo this year have been the uncov-
ering of two saddle reefs at Monument
Hill, and of others at the Central Nell
Gwynne and New Chum Syncline, says
A. J. Moore. He considers that these
and other developments, including the
one at Ironbark, may bring back to the
field some of its old glory. Unsatisfac-
tory results during the recent revival
have been mostly from other types of
reef.
* • * * * ■
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), wal-
lows in a sea of troubles. The plant,
scheduled for completion in August,
1935, was not working until early in
1936, owing to difficulties experienced by
the contractor. Water, mechanical and
other troubles have since interfered with
smooth running and output. The board,
however, is satisfied that the metallur-
gical process is sound. For the dis-
appointing February return, the man-
ager blamed the ball mill and the
fact that some development ore, sent
direct to the mill, was much lower-grade
than he counted upon. During the
March crushing he reported that
in stoping from the No. 4 level the
ore had not been cleanly worked, a
greater proportion of country rock than
was necessary being broken. On exam-
ining the surface dumps he found that
a large percentage of low-grade ore had
been dumped on the first-grade heap,
whilst good ore had been tipped on the
low-grade dump. Mill returns, and to
some extent check-sampling to date, indi-
cate overestimates of the value of ore
obtained from development, the board
says. Something is also said about
the shoot of high-grade ore between Nos.
4 and 5 levels not being so valuable as
originally thought. No definite statement
of the extent and tonnage of payable ore_
in the mine can be made until develop-
ment and certain other work is further
advanced. It is now reported that high
values are confined to a length of 90tt.,
followed by 70ft. of erratic values. An
agitation for an inquiry into the co.’s
affairs by a royal commission has been
started in the West.
* * * *
De Bernales’s group now has three mills
—Sand Queen, Yellowdine and King of
Creation—operating in the West, and
each is stated to be steadily increasing
its productive capacity. Important de-
velopments are reported from several
shows of the group. At Woolgar, con-
trolled by Boulder Mining and Finance,
Ltd., and formerly known as Menzies
Consolidated, a diamond drill has
stabbed Bft. of solid payable ore.
Costs should be low, the ore free-mill-
ing and likely to prove of good aver-
age width. There is a railway siding
alongside. Results from prospecting
with diamond and rock drill on the
Lochinvar, another of the B.M. and F.
string, are also encouraging. Boring in
Fraser’s old mine, worked by Southern
Cross Development Co,, has located a
lOdwt. gold-carrying formation at No, 3
level, and further boring and prospect-
ing in sections of this property during
the next few months are tipped to en-
hance its outlook substantially. De-
velopments on the North Kalgurli United
Co.’s holding, at the north end of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, and on Mur-
chison Development’s two shows —
Riverina and Emu, at Mulline and Law-
lers respectively—are also definitely on
the up-grade. Diamond and rock drills
have drawn prizes for both cos.
% $ sfc He
Claude de Bernales has become vice-
chairman of Gt. Boulder (W.A.), and, if
a London tip is correct, he will become
chairman before long.
* # * *
Yellowdine, so far the best of the De
Bernales Westralian bunch, announced
its first clean-up the other day. In all
3109 tons was milled for a return of
bullion valued at £12,908 in Australian
currency. Tailings, to be cyanided when
plant is installed, assayed B.s9dwt. per
ton. Yellowdine is operated by a co.
representing Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, Anglo-Australian Gold De-
velopment, Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment and Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance. Commonwealth Mining and
Finance holds the largest interest. It is
intended to increase the monthly through-
put by about 500 tons until a maximum
of 5000 tons is reached.
* # H:
Marble Bar, in the centre of the distant
Pilbara field, announces Westralia’s
latest spectacular gold find. A few
thousand pounds’ worth of the yellow
metal has been obtained from a “wide
formation,” and the find is expected to
be “very rich when opened up.” Option-
seekers have hastened to the place in
’planes and cars. The old Lalla Rookh,
30 miles from Marble Bar, has been sold
by Claude de Bernales to Meekatharra
Gold Mines, Ltd. A report made some
years ago on the property by R. C.
Wilson, then assistant, now State Mining
Engineer, stated that, well handled,
it should have a good chance of
success. That was when gold was
worth less than half what it is now.
Meekatharra Gold Mines, Ltd., was
formed in London last year to acquire
an auriferous group at Meekatharra. In-
spection by V. Edquist showed that pros-
pects were fading, so the co. pulled out.
* * *
Though for “exceptional” reasons
Sons of Gwalia’s treated tonnage and
profit shrank somewhat last term, chair-
man C. A. Moreing entertains high hopes
for the current year, developments hav-
ing increased ore reserves (295. grade
with gold at 85s. an ounce) to over five
years’ supply for the mill. The new tube
section has proved a boon, coping with
the increased percentage of sulphides at
lower operating cost and with increased
recoveries. Diamond-drilling has com-
menced on surrounding areas.
* * * *
G.M. Block 45, at the northern end of
Westraiia’s Golden Mile, has had an en-
couraging development on the No. 3
level, where a crosscut has exposed a
lode Bft. wide. This confirms previous
borehole indications. Free gold is show-
ing, and the find is described as “more
than satisfactory,” whatever that may
mean. No assays have been made public.
Youanmi (W.A.), of which Lord Lee
is chairman and Paddy Fitzgerald con-
sulting engineer, will have its first 5000-
tons-a-month oxidised unit in operation
before the end of August. A similar
one, designed to handle sulphide ore, will
follow shortly after. The controllers of
the show express “strong belief in its
future.”
* * * $
Although W.A. fields possess many
monuments of disappointment and
wasted energy, there are some shows
which saw the light of day during the
recent boom which are still yielding rich
stuff. One of these is the Yilgangie
Queen, on the way to Edjudina. Six
shafts have been sunk on this mine, and
values have improved down to water
level. To date, 450 tons has been crushed
for an average of 3oz.
Jfc Jjc jfc *
Sydney-controlled Edjudina has ap-
plied to the Westralian Government for
a loan. Plant troubles, said to have
given the management splitting head-
aches, are now stated to have been
“largely overcome,” and better times are
hoped for.
* * * *
New Venture (W.A.) has now decided
to back something north of the Three
Boys, at Southern Cross. The co. lost
most of the contents of its till searching
for gold in derelicts around Coolgardie
and elsewhere.
* * * *
Ore reserves in S. African goldmines
continue to bulge. Crown now has
nearly 20,000,000 tons of s.o7dwt. and
5,086,404 tons of 6.2ldwt. ; Randfon-
tein, 14,895,000 tons of 4.2dwt.; Gov-
ernment Areas, 11,457,000 tons of
6.Bdwt. ; Springs, 10,110,964 tons of
6.07dwt.; West Rand Consolidated,
9.964.000 tons of 4.4dwt. ; Geduld,
9,000,000 tons of 5.2dwt.; East Rand
Proprietary, 8,688,000 tons of s.2dwt.
and 778,480 tons of 6dwt. ; East Geduld,
7.950.000 tons of 6.5dwt.; Modder New,
7.872.000 tons of s.ldwt. ; Consoli-
dated Main Reef, 7,130.300 tons of
4.7dwt. Nine others have reserves rang-
ing from 6,500,000 down to 3,500,000
tons, worth between 6dwt. and 4dwt.
Four of the properties have an estimated
life of 40 years, two of 35, five of 30,
two of 22, three of 20, two of 15 and
one of 14.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.H.L.; Income which bears tax in another
country is free of Federal income tax. In
N.S.W. it is subject to unemployed-relief tax,
even if it has borne taxation in other States or
countries. The statutory deduction in N.S.W.
for ordinary income-tax purposes is £250 on
income earned within the State (relief tax
is subject to no such deduction). There are
child,and wife (State) allowances, but premiums
in respect of assurances effected outside Aus-
tralia are not deductible. It is very hard to
advise in the circumstances. If you leave your
investments in M.L. they will bear both M.L.
and N.S.W. unemployed-relief tax. If the
income of yourself and wife is less than £250
in each case it would, if earned in N.S.W., be
free of ordinary State and Federal income tax
but subject to the relief tax... .K.E.G.: Let
it drop, if you can... .X.Y.Z.: Our informa-
tion is that the show has possibilities
Crystal: Unable to obtain a balance sheet.
McKay; (1) Yes. (2) If they bear tax in
U.S.A., yes. Otherwise subject to Federal
tax... .R.G.H.: The Government’s attitude is
so difficult to define that it is hard to gauge
the effect. All American cars are likely to be
dearer later on R. 8.8.: Cranwells’ circular
of May 21, 1936, does not say what capital
(if any) was issued by the Producers’ and
General Finance Corp. before Cranwells
was taken over (on the basis of one P. and
G.F. ord. for each Cranwells ord., and one
P. and G.F. pref. for each four Cranwells
ords.). Therefore, if any shares were issued
for intangible consideration to the P. and G.F.
promoters, the tangible backing for Cranwells
ord. shareholders might be reduced. The new
shares are to be listed on ’Change. Cranwells
ords. had a vestibule market in Sydney at
about 38s J.M.K. and J.P.: Co. hasn’t
turned the corner. Bonuses to policy-holders
not in sight.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. 15. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timbcrlands and plantation
valuation survevs, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L, MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.


ghf
TRUE TO STROMBERG-GARLSON TRADITION
ppp vmmmgi
vwx : : : :
mmm
m
low
-cooc
w
ip: V
J|:& S’ :; W.
pgHiH $1
»■•■■' ¥;• '.’ S&SS
:
-■ ■; :•:• •>,•;:;■: x*&: :
Mi
.
S» »
m
m
M &&
Es-S"
M&SimWfM
m
-
oooo< •:•:
Jss;^:3^S>SS^j
: : ; : ; ; : ; ; ; :y: : »: ; : : x ; ;¥;¥x : >;i
S S?
Site
£22
:■•:¥:
Which ever model you choose—there is nothing finer than a Stromberg-Carlson.
NEVER before have Stromberg-Carlson built so fine a range of Radio Receivers. Never before have such
low priced Receivers commanded so high a reputation, for Stromberg-Carlson were famous long before
the very beginning of radio. Since 1894 this organisation has pioneered many vital refinements in
telephone and radio technique . . . providing" the public at moderate cost with the advantages of each new
advancement as quickly as it has been perfected. Thus with an enviable background of knowledge in the
science of radio, Stromberg-Carlson have always been far ahead in design ... in craftsmanship ... in actual
value for money. To-day, in a newly-built factory with every modern facility, a complete range of 16 Radio
Receivers is produced, each model being the best performer available in its class—with one model priced at
14 guineas . . . the lowest-priced Stromberg-Carlson for years.
1®)
HOBS
These line sketches illus-
trate the classic beauty
of the Stromberg-Carlson
range, which comprises 9
models for All-electric
Operation (3 of these will
operate on D.C. as well
as A.C.) at prices ranging
from 14 Guineas, and 5
Battery-operated models
from 19 Guineas.
In technique, in tone, in reproduction and in
cabinet-styling, has always
been so far ahead that its leadership in radio
remains unquestioned . . . its very name a
recognised symbol of excellence. To hear its
brilliant performance for just a few minutes is
to experience a new enjoyment of reproduced
music ... to compare its impressive cabinet
design is to gain a new conception of furniture
craftsmanship.
MODEL 888 (illustrated above) is typical of
the Sfromberg-Carlson range. It is an 8-valve
Dual -wave Battery-operated Superheterodyne,
covering 5 short-wave channels (16-51 metres).
The efficient, highly-developed circuit ensures
excellent reception in any district, but despite
its tremendous power is very economical in
operation. (The A Battery—2-volt— con-
sumption is .58 amperes, and B Battery con-
sumption at room volume whether on Aus-
tralian or Overseas Stations is 13-14 milli-
amperes.) The Volume Control is automatic—
it adjusts even the’ strongest of signals auto-
matically to your desires. A special three-way
battery switch is provided, enabling dial light to
be switched off after tuning, resulting in more
economical operation. Model 888 is housed in
a magnificent Console Grand Cabinet.
Price 45 Guineas.
(Price slightly higher in Western Australia.)
gh
Backed by the resources of
Stromberg- Carlson, Rochester,
New York, leader in the design
and manufacture of voice trans-
mission and voice reproduction
apparatus since 1 894.
l or further details see your near-
est Authorised Stromberg-Carlson
Dealer or write to Stromberg-
Carlson (A/sia), Ltd., Bourke
Road, Alexandria, Sydney.
a □
5
0® @
AUTHORISED DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ornis”: The failure of supply and
demand to adjust themselves the worid
over is re-echoed in the news that outback
farming districts of Westralia are tremb-
ling under the threat of another emu in-
vasion from the north beside which
former raids have just been a circum-
stance. At the same moment, Taronga
Park is complaining that it is right out
of emus and cannot get any for love or
money. The Westralian cockies suggest
a Government bonus of 2s. 6d. an emu
head. It would pay almost as well to
corner the emu market, which is simply
asking to be rigged, and then subject the
emu-fanciers of N. S. Wales to an old-
man skinning.
* * * *
“G.G.”: Binghi reduces domestic dis-
cipline to a fine art. We called at a station
in North Westralia for stores, and noticed
a gin beating the woodheap furiously
with a stick. The storekeeper explained:
“The old girl got up in a bad temper
this morning, and she’s got to belt that
woodheap until she’s in a better mood.
She mustn’t go back to camp before.”
* t- *
“Conon”: The crowds of bagmen now
flocking into Queensland on their way
north for hibernation have reintroduced
the substitutes for socks known in other
days as “Prince Alberts.” Of nine youths
encountered on the road near Ingham
(N.Q.), six were wearing the once-
familiar bandages of unbleached calico
in lieu of socks. And all said they pre-
ferred them, and not only because they’re
cheaper.
* -■* * *
“O. W. Waireki”: The 14-year-old
schoolboy son of a M.L. farmer recently
showed his dad a new method of bring-
ing home a hide. Asked to skin a steer
at the back of the run the lad was told
to leave the hide for one of the men
to get later, as it would be too heavy
for him to handle. Later, a strange
flapping apparition caused great excite-
ment among the dog colony as it hove
into the house paddock. It was Tommy,
in triumph, riding on his saddle astride
the ox hide, which he had used as a
saddle cloth; underneath, hot, bloody
and indignant, was Ponto the pony, only
his legs visible.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A drive is being launched
agahst another undesirable importation
in Maoriland —the German owl, enemy
of native birds. The campaign finds no
more enthusiastic backer than a North
Otago rector. His cloistered calm being
disturbed nightly, he decided to enlist
the co-operation of his scholars in exter-
minating owls from the precincts of the
college. When he offered half a crown
per head, the boys set to work, and dead
owls heaped up, yet the nocturnal hoot-
ing showed no diminution. The rector
made a few discreet inquiries, and dis-
covered that the bright lads were in
league with pals in Central Otago, hun-
dreds of miles away, who were forward-
ing loads at a shilling a head.
*‘* * *
“Centre”: A New Guinea woman to
whom I told the story of Mrs. Dionne's
epic feat said, “Ou! She no white
woman, she no black woman; she ail
same big-fella pig.” The N.G. woman
considers even twins a disgrace to their
mother.
* *
“Paul C.”: “Any good at pullin’
corn?” said a Maitland (N.S.W.) farmer
to a couple of deserting seamen who had
asked for a job. “Betcher!” was the
laconic answer. “Right!” he said; “start
at the gate in that corn paddock. Put
every few rows in a line of heaps ten
yards apart. When I get back from the
butter factory I’ll give you a hand.” A
couple of hours later he caught a dis-
tant view as he came down the road of
a well-cleared slice of the paddock, and
congratulated himself on having secured
two excellent workers. As he entered
(he paddock he saw the two mariners
bend down and with a “Heave-oh!” yank
the stalk out by the roots. As they rolled
over on the sudden “give,” a lurid burst
of profanity rent the air. The agricul-
turist, with a leap and an agonised yell,
bounded towards them brandishing a
hoe. They discreetly faded into the
standing crop.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Rabbits are numerous in
Kosciusko’s snow, but one would hardly
expect to find foxes up near the summit
in midwinter. I spotted one near Charlotte
Pass making into the teeth of a sizzling
blizzard with head bowed almost to the
snow —the stinging ice grains, which
strike like red-hot needles, must have
been giving him fits. If foxes are so
cunning, why do they live in such un-
comfortable surroundings?
* * =i= *
“Furban”: At Amity Point, Strad-
broke Island (Q.), a family of five scale-
less, snub-nosed fish, the longest a bare
five inches, have lived for a year on the
limbs of a tree which overhangs the
water and forms part of the well-known
angling resort called- “The Timbers.”
Although it is not known whether they
leave the water to feed or to escape
enemies, Arthur Gunn, an old resident,
has found that the more windy the
weather the higher they climb so as to
be out of the wash of the waves. He
has taken them along the beach, but they
have always relumed by the next night.
The climbing is performed by the aid of
small arms or fins attached to the body
beneath the gills, and they journey from
the sand to their leafy home in a series
of short hopping movements
“Viscum”: I have seen most Aus-
tralian and many imported trees, includ-
ing cypress and pines, harbor mistle-
toe. My entry for queer hosts is a
60-year-old oleander in my garden.
it =l= * *
“Go-on-anna”; Goanna oil doesn’t
seep through glass. If a bottle of it is
sealed with wax the outside will remain
clean. The oil works up the neck of the
bottle and down the outside.
* * * *
“James W.”: Fresh and salt, is it?
Lake Kaboora and the Blue Lake on
Stradbroke Island, Moreton Bay (Qo> are
both well above sea-level, have no outlet
to the sea, are fresh and ice-cold, and
rise and fall with the tide. Kaboora
waters are brown with tannin from the
bark of tea-trees growing in its edges,
and from vegetation dropped from its
sandy, shifting shores through the cen-
turies. The Darling River, at the junc-
tion with the Castlereagh, is as salt as
Lot’s wife. Hundreds of miles nearer the
sea it is fresh. Brine springs in its bed
explain that lot. But what is surely the
most remarkable instance of fresh and
salt in the world is off the coast of W.A.,
near Broome, where a fresh-water spring,
bursting up from the ocean floor, makes
it possible for the lugger crews to dip
buckets of drinking water from the
ocean itself.
“He seems so friendly. Is it the sort of bear that hugs?
“Yes, lady, but 1 wouldn't trust ’im if I Was you."
“W.P.T.”: The platypus which the
N.Q. bushman saw moving silently to-
wards him (B. 17/6/’36) must have been
dead or dying from senile decay. The
platypus is our most timid creature, and
will dive immediately it sights or hears
anything. Platypuses are not as rare
as many would have us believe. They
are still to .be seen in quiet N.S.W.
streams well away from habitation. I
have seen dozens of them in Matagana
Creek, which runs into the Towamba
River.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Ken, straight from Lon-
don, reached the station just in time to
be sent out to Little Gulthul with Kelly
and The Guv’nor. The raw youngster
suffered all sorts of torments from the
hard, unusual tucker, rough bunks, solid
work, little black ants, mosquitoes and
other things—not to mention chronic
soreness from learning to ride. He bore
it all rather stoically, his attempts at com-
plaint being checked by the crustiness of
the old Guv. or the cheerful admonition
from Kelly to‘“Think of the pioneers,
son —what they had to put up with!”
Five months passed as the isolated trio
tended the sheep and rode the fences
in that waste of belar flats, sandhills
and porcupine grass. The Guv’nor
lapsed into almost silence, and the chortles
of Kelly’s “Think of the pioneers” were
about the only human words the poor
devil heard. Then the ration man turned
up one day afoot. His outfit had bolted
and scattered their rations to the four
winds. The Guv'nor set out for the
homestead. 40 miles away, on horse-
back to bring relief. By the third day
the trio at Little Gulthul were subsist-
ing on potato stew and cold mutton. It
was a cold, miserable day of drizzle, and
they huddled round the fire thinking of
■strong black tea, rich new bread,
brownie, etc., and Ken sighed: “What
a life!” “Never mind, Chum,” began
Kelly, “think of the pion” With an
inhuman howl, Ken bounded to his feet.
“To hell with the ruddy pioneers!” he
shrieked. “Just because they were blanky
silly enough to do it doesn’t say 1 should.
And, by goom, I won’t!” He nearly
killed himself and his horse doing it, but
he ate dinner at the head station next
day.
* ❖
“Crash”: No bushman who has heard a
bell bird would suspect collaboration be-
tween his “well-belled” prad and the
“base deceiver” (B. 17/6/’36). The bird’s
note, if resembling a bell at all, is near
to the faint metallic chink of the so-
called Japanese harp ; and I have known
very few tone-deaf bushmen.
“Walkabout”: I never was fooled by
a bellbird when listening for horsebells,
but I’ll bet I’m only one of many who’ve
been intrigued by the imitative bower-
bird. I’ve followed one through scrub
expecting every minute to come on to
the wanted prad.
$ *i- * *
“Nedlands”: How much does a dog
know? My neighbor, a poultry-farmer,
owned a bull ter-
rier, Ugly, whose
attitude towards
fowls was one of
bored indifference:
hence he was held
to be above all sus-
picion of an occa-
sional meal of
poultry. On our
stretchers one
morning on the
verandah, we were
stirred by a squawk
and the sight of a
black - and - white
something scooting
across the dim
landscape. “That’s
Ugly,” averred the
long-haired mate,
“and I’ll bet he’s
got a fowl. Keep
quiet and you’ll see
him come back to
see if anyone saw
him.” Sure enough,
a few minutes later
the dog came trot-
ting back on his
tracks, to be obvi-
ously disconcerted
when he discov-
ered us awake.
Later in the day a
search disclosed his
dining - room: a
cache of feathers
in a thick clump of
wattle, all black
feathers —and they
kept blacks about a
mile down the
road. Thereafter
Ugly spent his
nights on the chain. But he was never
friends with me or the mate any more—
he knew quite well that we had put his
pot on.
“Oloc”: “1 want to hire your bull,”
I told Cassidy, my neighbor. “Aye,”
said Cassidy, “and phwat a bull. The
best that iver came to this disthrict.' Why,
his father” and Cassidy discussed
pedigrees for ten minutes. “Quite so,” I
interrupted, “but when can I get him?”
Cassidy’s ingenuous blue eyes looked
puzzled, his brow wrinkled in perplexity.
•‘Get him?” he said. “Why, shure, ye
can get him if ye want him—ye’ll find
him up the paddock. But ’tis only fair
to tell ye that he died yesterday.”
;]: * * *
“Xover”: On cleaning a 21b. blackfish
I’d caught near Healesville (Vic.), I found
inside it a couple of English trout about
4in. long. I’ve often caught trout with
small blackfish in the larder, but now
the niggers seem to be retaliating.
Strength to their jaws!
“Spud”: English perch are certainly
cannibals. In Westralian rivers the red-
fins eat anything and everything. Fresh-
water cobblers were once prevalent in
many streams, but now they are rare,
whereas perch are abundant. Eels have
also disappeared, while marron are not
as plentiful as a few years ago. A move
by a propagation society to introduce
other fish to the rivers will provide the
perch with an even more varied diet. But
the perch is not worthless, as has been
alleged. Soaked well in salt water before
frying, the white, flaky flesh is quite
palatable.
HORSE-TAILING.
Pearl-grey the day is breaking,
The earliest birds are waking,
And the weary stars are paling in the sky.
The air is cold and bracing,
And sets the warm blood racing;
The frosted grass is crackling crisp and dry.
The old night-horse is swinging
To his work, the bush now ringing
With the melody of butcher-bird and thrush.
On the flats a mist is lifting
And with it fragrance drifting
From the crowfoot and the clover growing
lush.
As the roseate splendor changes
In the east across the ranges
To palest gold, I rouse the horses out
From the warm scrub —stockwhip ringing—
Until 1 get them stringing
Downhill towards the flats with whip and
shout.
And then, with heels a-flashing,
Bucking, snorting, off they’re dashing
Full gallop through the saplings and the
brush:
Flying sand and sticks and rubble,
With the old horse pulling double
As from the hills across the flat we rush!
Never pause as down the crossing
Of the creek with wildly tossing
Manes and tails the horses plunge and jump
the stream.
Don shortens in his striding—
Flalf-diving and half-sliding—;
And now he jumps-—I see the water
gleam . . .
Up the bank with snort and scramble,
Between the rocks and bramble,
With Don still “on the bit” and pulling
hard ;
While before us, nostrils steaming.
Their sunlit bright coats gleaming,
The station horses gallop to the yard.
When the winter rains are falling,
Tailing horses is a calling
That never had a great appeal for me;
And, when droving on dry stretches,
Rounding up poor weary wretches
Is about as dreary as a task can be.
But to ride when day is breaking
And the bushland world is waking,
When the flat with scented clover-bloom is
starred,
’Tis a never-cloying pleasure,
A joy beyond all measure,
That gallop with the horses to the yard.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


“Mac Sporran”: Bagpipes, eh? Dugald
Mac Kay had three treasured possessions:
his bagpipes, a complete tartan costume,
inherited from his youthful service in a
Highland regiment, and his taste for
whisky. Wherever he wandered he took
all three with him. Left alone in his
Edjudina (W.A.) camp while his two
mates went to the store, 50 miles away,
taking the guns with them in case they
should strike a ’roo or a turkey, Mac
found himself menaced by a tribe of
spinifex niggers. Retiring to his bough-
shed camp, his retreat accelerated by a
flight of spears, he decided to finish oft
what was left of the whusky and, thus for-
tified, to die like a soldier and a Hie-
lan’ man. Donning the full splendor of
his faded regimentals, he inflated the
pipes, and, with ribbons fluttering and
the “Cock o’ the North” shattering the
atmosphere, strode boldly forth. The
apparition was too much for the niggers
—it was miles before they stopped run-
ning. And for years after spinifex cor-
roborees staged the top-of-the-bill item
of the debil-debil dressed like a Mary
with plenty crying piccaninny in his
debil-debil bag.
* * * *
“Cobweb”: What do redbacked spiders
eat? Well, mosquitoes for one thing—
and probably find them pretty succulent
dining. Like the redback, the mossy
holes up more or less in the dark during
daylight hours. Mother Nature does not
forget to provide a living—and a death—
for even the humblest of her creatures.
"Thourt doin' good job, load; but put on your 'at or you'll be catchin'
bad cold."
“Hegar”: “Bill O’C.” (B. 17/6/’36)
swings his axe a bit too widely. The cat-
rabbit cross does exist; a well-known
pub in Warrnambool (Vic.) owned one
some 10 or 12 years ago. From ’mid-
ships for’ard the creature was cat, the
rest definitely rabbit. Anticipating
“B. O’C.’s” natural retort that he’s seen
stranger things than that in a pub, may
I submit that this freak can be vouched
for by numerous barley-water addicts
as well as by the ordinary beer-drinking
fraternity?
* * * *
“Bimbo": What is the record price
for a hide? About three years ago
C. W. Orr, of Mount Gambier (S.A.),
netted £l3 15s. 9d. for the hide off a fat
bullock. The beast got down during a
heat-wave, refused to eat, and had to
be destroyed. It was one of a pair from
Netley station on the Darling ; the other,
still alive, is estimated to weigh over
two tons. The hide realised such a
high price because it was ideal for
special engine belting.
* * * *
“Snowy”: To the list of albino mar-
supials and birds which by rights should
be wearing the conventional overcoat of
their kind N.Q. has added an albino
echidna, now alive at Brisbane museum.
This is only the third specimen of the
kind recorded and, curiously enough, all
have been found on Dunk Island. About
the only outback fauna which have not
yet contributed albinos to the collection
are goannas and jim-jams.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Andy is a chronic sufferer.
He wears a steel ring on one linger to
ward off rheumatism, a flannel belt
round his waist to protect his kidneys
from chill, garlic in his socks to stop
colds and ’flu, and a bag of camphor
round his neck to keep any stray germs at
a safe distance. In his pockets he carries
a complete snakebite outfit and a small
bottle of washing-soda as an emetic in
case of poisoning, and in thunderstorms
he trails a length of copper wire from
his hat to the ground to serve as a light-
ning conductor. Now he’s quite wor-
ried because he’s got a job in N.Q., and
he doubts the efficacy of his hat to ward
off sunstroke. If Andy ever dies it will
be sheer bad luck.
* * * »
“Bungaree”: “F.YJ’s” assertion that
the call of the sheep never varies (B.
8/ 7/’36) is on a par with the delusion
that all coons (or Chinamen) look alike.
To the average person the sheep makes
a noise that might be rendered as either
“Me-h-h” or “Baa,” but when a man
has lived with sheep for long he uncon-
sciously picks up a working knowledge
of their language. If anyone said that
the bark of a dog never varied, thou-
sands of dog-owners would rise to con-
tradict him, and it is the same with
woollies. The actual note varies with
individual sheep; as a rule, the tone
deepens with age from the falsetto of
the lamb to the deep contralto of the old
ewe, which might be written as “Ma-ah"
or “Ma-aw” or even “Baa.” While the
sheep language is limited in consonants,
it relies for expression chiefly on dura-
tion or inflexion. Any dog-owner can
pick the bark of his own animal out of
a chorus and can tell whether the note is
a warning or a welcome—or just a plain
bark. Experienced drovers and sheep-
men can likewise differentiate between
the call of alarm, the call of a thirsty
sheep that has just smelled water, the
frenzied persistent call of a ewe search-
ing for her lamb, the call of a sheep
that has got separated from its mate, the
call of a leader drawing the mob down
to the dam for a drink, or merely the
contented backchat of a wether grazing
with his mouth full.
“And note, after ten thousand years of intensive research. We can
definitely say that the planet Earth is NOT inhabited.
“Aerogenes”: Who says animals don’t
think? My little mare, who had never
seen such a thing done before, renders
the very spiniest of young Scotch thistles
fit for eating by pounding the plant with
a forefoot until all the prickles are
crushed and bent out of the way.
* * *
“Bohongkali”: An Australian resident
in the F.M.S. is shortly leaving for
Borneo to conduct a search for a huge
red-bellied frog. While there he might
keep an eye open for the Pukaua, an
animal living in caves at the foot of Mt.
Kinabula —a cross between a deer and
a wild pig, though in place of a tongue it
has a keen-edged kris. Pukaua guards the
forest belt at the foot of Kinabula, and
woe betide any human discovered in this
forbidden territory. Should the hunted
man take to a tree he is doomed, for the
keen kris makes short work of the stoutest
trunk, and the victim soon has his bones
licked clean. But there is one way in
which this animal can be outwitted: if it
can be led through water it will stop to
lick itself dry on reaching land again.
The kris at once sinks into flesh and
causes the blood to flow ; the beast con-
tinues to lick until only its bones remain.
* * * *
“M.P.”: To some native races the
white man’s games seem to be almost as
dangerous as his views. At Badu
Island, off the northernmost tip of Aus-
tralia, it has been found necessary to for-
bid the islanders to play marbles, their
enthusiasm for that recently imported
pastime having led to neglect of the fish-
ing and shell-gathering on which their
livelihood depends. A similar ban had
to be laid on cricket some years ago in
Tonga. Having learnt the game when
at school in Maoriland, the late King
Tubou 11. introduced it among his sub-
jects, and found cause for regret. Very
soon he had to restrict play to one day
a week to ward off the famine threat-
ened by neglect of the plantations.
“C.C.C.”: We left Longreach (Q.) at
sundown, and not long afterwards, as
darkness settled down, a vagrant gleam
of light began to haunt the upper corner
of the windscreen. All sorts of fictitious
oddments are apt to appear on the road
ahead after a long day’s drive, so, though
mildly uneasy, I took no notice for some
time. At length, the flashes persisting,
in fear of dingbats I pulled up to recup-
erate a bit —and was vastly relieved to
find that it was the light from Qantas’s'
revolving beacon at Winton, flashing on
an odd small cloud. It was well over 80
miles awav.
“Tid’apa”: The abos. of Reuben
Cooper’s camp, on the Coburg Peninsula
(N.T.), have made friends and allies of
a school of porpoises which seem to have
taken up permanent residence in the
vicinity. When a .shoal of sea-mullet is
sighted the abos. make for the beach and
beat the sand with slabs of flat timber.
Although the porpoises may be out of
sight they soon arrive in answer to the
resounding signals and shepherd the
mullet in close enough for the natives
to get busy with their spears. The por-
poises take their fill from the outskirts
of the school, quite oblivious of the pres-
ence and shouts of the abos.
* * * *
“M. de Paris”: “Mr. Ketch” (B.
24/6/’36) invents an Aunt Sally to knock
down when he says I advocated the use
of a ring instead of a knot in the execu-
tion rope. Perusal of my brief mono-
graph on the subject will show that the
ring was advocated by the leading Aus-
tralian authority on hangings and not
myself. He insists again that grease
should be used to make the noose run
easier—further evidence that he is an
amateur on the subject. In uncouther
days soap was used —not grease, which
the rope absorbs too readily. T have
already explained that in cultured Euro-
pean circles the noose is now rubber-
covered, this making greatly for the
patient’s comfort.
* *
“Talahua”: Quite agree that the arrest
of haemorrhage by pressure, either direct
or by means of a tourniquet, is pretty
generally understood by bush folk (B.
13/6/’36); the same principles are known
and practised by the more primitive
races. I have in mind a South Sea
Islander who, while dynamiting fish, mis-
calculated as to the length of fuse re-
quired, with dire results to one arm.
With his sound hand and his teeth he
tied an effective tourniquet, got sail up
on his 24ft. cutter (he was quite alone),
and set off for home. Eight hours later
he staggered ashore on the beach at my
front door and flopped unconscious on
the sand —which, in view of his per-
formance, I think he was qilite entitled
to do. He lost the arm, of course, but
after a little practice learnt to fling his
dynamite quite as proficiently with the
other one.
THE STRONG OF IT.
Old “Forty-Mile Tom” is the “bab” on our
station,
But, though he is famed all along the Paroo,
He sets little store by his great reputation
For making a duff or concocting a stew.
More pressing to him is the news. By the
column
He’ll lap it up avidly, while on his phiz.
A quizzical look will appear with his solemn :
“I’d just like to know what the strong of
this is!”
He never reflects that some other may need
’em,
But grabs all the rags and commences to
yap,
Ignoring from us some occasional freedom
Like “Dry up, you blighter!” or “Aw—
shut y’r trap!”
He sees hidden motives in all that is written ;
The unknown annoys him. Then comes his
“Gee whiz!
Did you blokes see this about Lyons and
Britain?
I wonder, now, just what the strong of
it is!”
The mob on the station profanely consider.
If his cooking and magging impartially are
Reviewed, that Tom’s chance, when he takes
his last “skidder,”
Of heaven and hell are about on a par.
But whether Old Nick or St. Peter will get
him,
And whether a fork or a harp will be his,
It’s certain he’ll say, although fears may beset
him:
“Be cripes —now I’ll know what the strong
of it is!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH ADSTR4LU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE,
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET
Capital Authorised . £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. . .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. -. . * 1,000,000
(Used partly in business partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E. 0.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tile
world.
Prafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. AH visual
banking business transacted.
GRAZIERS!
Continue to place your confidence
in this fine All-British Machinery.
BETTER THAN EVER—
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE CO., LTD.,
has its own Offices, Showrooms and
fg
Selling Organisation
at Mi 11 e r’s
Point, Sydney.
(P.O. Box
1631 BB.)
hf
You could not wish for a more
reliable Electric Lighting Set than
the WOLSELEY. Specially
designed for Country Homes.
Ask for Publication No. 160.
The “RINGER”
The Marvellous NEW Streamlined
Handpiece. The Lightest and Fastest-
cutting Shear made.
Complete Shearing Installations Supplied.
Also Engines, Pumps, Chaffcutters, Saw-
benches, etc. When writing, please mention
The Bulletin.
ru
3 r
WHERE
will You stay in
MELBOURNE?
ghf
At the Victoria, of
course! • Australia’s
largest, most modern
hotel. In heart of city.
Every luxury. Un-
rivalled dining rooms
and cafeterias. Popular
“Room Only” tariffs:
Singles, i/- to 7/6
per day; Doubles, 8/-
to 16/-. Write for
free illustrated booklet
to Department 1112.
VICTORIA PALACE
301-229 Little Collins
St., Melbourne, C.l.
*>«•!!■•!!!
i:| :::: ;
in** 1 ! 2
H+ttl i H-rrrl Ffu
LARGEST VROTEI IN AUSTRALIA
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Length of Wool Staple.
“Bungaree”: At a recent meeting of
N.S.W. sheepbreeders it was stated that
“the importance of length of staple in
the wool of merino sheep had been over-
estimated in the past.” The speaker, a
well-known breeder, had support in a
list of the most suitable lengths of each
wool type, and it was suggested that
judges take this into consideration when
handling sheep at shows. The figures arc
as follows:
Most Suitable Min. Max.
Type Length. Length. Length.
Superfine .. 2|-2Jin. Hin. 3-tin.
Fine .. .. 2J-3Jin. 2in. 4in.
Medium .. 3-3-jin. 2tin. 4fin.
Strong .. 3J-4in. 2|in. 4Jin.
The general need for stating a mini-
mum and maximum in the length of any
particular type of staple lies in the fact
that machinery is specially set to handle
that type and the machine is limited in
range. Yet a survey of wool prices over
the past four years does not quite bear
out the original statement, and any
attempt to limit the length of staple is
distinctly retrograde.
During 1932-33 depression prices ruled,
and buyers were eager for short super-
fine clothing wools. A bulky line of
s.s.c. wool, averaging about 2in. with a
heavy black tip, beat a longer-stapled,
higher-yielding and far more stylish line
of 74’s by several pence. Since that year,
however, the demand has been all for
shafty wools ; quality and breeding have
become so secondary that breeders lack-
ing experience of the idiosyncrasies of the
market are tempted to get rid of their
line-wool led ewes.
In 1934 the same properly shore a
big line of bought wethers from the
plains, carrying 13 months’ medium-
quality wool, averaging 4-44 in
heavier-conditioned than the
station sheep. At auction, in dis-
regard of the super line which
topped the market, the long, shafty
64’s of the bought wethers
equalled the price of the main
fleece line of station wethers,
which, although fully an inch
shorter, was of 70-74’s quality, brighter,
softer and more attractive in every way.
Last year, another line of bought
wethers, carrying 14 months’ wool, was
shorn. The staple was so long-— 4j-5\
inches —that in previous years it would
have been regarded as overgrown, and
neglected by buyers. However, with the
trend of market in mind, it went to
auction with the rest of the clip. The
result, excluding super lines which
brought fancy prices, was:
Station-bred wethers, bright, stylish 70-
74’s, av. 3in., 21? d., 204 d.
Bought wethers, good 66’s up to sJin.
staple, 23d., 224cL, 2Ud.
Although these prices tend chiefly to
illustrate market vagaries, the past three
years’ demand for long, shafty comb-
ing wool shows no sign of abatement. So
it is rather wide of the mark to say that
“the importance of length of staple has
been overestimated.”
In any case, if sheep can be induced
to grow a longer staple within the 12
months without sacrificing density, and
provided the sheep’s constitution is not
affected by the extra weight of wool it
has to carry, why should we not try to
attain that end? A glance backward over
our merino history and a comparison of
the sheep of to-day with that of 50 years
ago and again with the original Mac-
arthur type of merino show tremendous
and continuous progress. The wool-
growing surface of the merino has been
multiplied many times, the breed is more
robust and the fleece is heavier, denser
and infinitely longer in staple.
There can be no stagnation in the
sheepbreeding industry. If we can add
still more to the length of staple without
impairing other qualities, the return per
sheep will not only be greater on account
of the additional weight and smaller per-
centage of tip and wastage per pound,
but manufacturers will be eager to adjust
their machines to handle changing clips.
Lamb-marking.
“Winfield”: For this job I have tried
many of the dressings advocated by
M.O.L. writers. If any is better, cer-
tainly none is cheaper than that used
on Therribri, Mr. Austin’s property, near
Boggabri (N.S.W.).
An overseer on the property has told
me that this well-known merino breeder
will allow no dressing of any sort to be
“Dave's gettin t' be one of them jazz ounds. This is the SECOND
dance Vs bin to.”
applied to the wound, maintaining that
blood, when it becomes clotted, contains
certain natural healing factors.
It is my experience that lambs so
treated must be in the best of health, and
every chance given them to make a quick
recovery. Otherwise fly-strike is certain.
When separated from their lambs the
ewes should be allowed to graze, the
lambs being given a yard free from dust
and droppings in which to lie. Other-
wise, hungry ewes, when let free, are
likely to lead the freshly-doctored lambs
too fast over the grazing area.
Dagging Wethers.
“Murrawong”: Although most sheep
owners are convinced that ewe-crutch-
ing is necessary, it often is only resorted
to after the owner has suffered heavy
losses from fly.
The convincing argument in favor of
crutching is not the loss of patches of
wool or the damage to the fleece through
sickness, but the dead sheep with which
fly loss litters the paddocks, and the cost
of extra labor to tend and dress fly-
struck animals. So, because wethers
don’t die as a direct result of being
daggy, the usual practice is to ignore
them at crutching time.
The object of carrying wethers is the
expectation sale of a good fleece and a
fat animal. Neither of those results is
attained by unhealthy sheep. If a wether
has to carry up to 10 p.c. of its weight
in dags its strength is obviously handi-
capped. A wool-blind sheep in any but
a prosperous season suffers materially
from being unable to forage unless it is
lucky enough to fluke a patch.
Daggy sheep on the shearing board
cause unlimited trouble. They cause dis-
affection among the shearers, especially
when the dags are right down on the
skin and it is impossible to remove them
without cutting the sheep. The board is
not only harder to keep clean but the
locks suffer. Even if the board locks are
carefully picked, a certain percentage of
small dags always gets through, diminish-
ing the yield and value of the locks.
Heavily dagged fleeces are hard to pick
up and harder to carry to the wool
table without losing half the fleece. The
dags hit the table with a bang, and the
smaller ones, with a strip of fleece
attached, drop through to spoil the table
locks.
Daggy skirtings double the piece-
picker’s work. Pieces are harder to
handle, a dag-heap calls for room that
seldom exists around the table, and either
extra pickers have to be put on, with in-
structions to pick dags clean, or else a
dag-picker has to be engaged to handle
a heap weighing tons which, if left for
any time, stains and destroys the wool
fibre in it by internal heat.
Sometimes graziers only realise the
dagginess of their sheep when they are
being mustered for shearing, and try to
remedy it by putting on every available
station-hand to hack the dags off with
hand shears.
It pays to put the wethers across the
board at crutching time. They do not
require the deep crutching of the ewes ;
a single blow round the tail is enough.
If the pizzles are rung at the same time,
apart from the advantages already men-
tioned, there will be appreciably less of
the clip going into stained pieces and
less risk of having clean wool torn out
of the bellies by the board-boys,
especially when bellies are very burry.
Meat Organisation.
“Ghanam”: Last year the C.S.I.R. re-
ported that the chilled-meat trade might
be said to have passed from the experi-
mental to the commercial stage. From
Queensland alone, 8391 tons of chilled
was exported during the year ended
June, 1935, and there were considerable
quantities from N.S.W. and Wyndham.
Three of four partial failures (leaving
out mere loss of bloom, which affects
price) were due to works not adhering
to standard practice and the fourth re-
sulted from the carrying of beef at 1 p.c.
lower temperature than normal.
Dr. Vickery, the C.S.I.R. man whose
work is now being subsidised by the
Meat Council, places the limit of the
voyage after which meat can be de-
livered in even fair condition at 50 days,
and says that loss of bloom is inevitable
after 55 days.
There is no doubt, however, that from
the north coast of Australia meat can
be delivered in London in about 29 days,
and that this voyage is reducible by
three or four days under proper con-
ditions. This would make delivery speed
competitive with that from the Argentine.
Especially, seeing that northern meat has
already come out of the shipment ordeal
better than southern, probably as a result
of the time factor, it seems sensible prac-
tice to concentrate shipments from the
north as much as possible. Moreover,
since there is a bigger surplus of re-
frigerated ship space in winter than at
any other lime, it should be possible to
brigade shipments in such a way as to cail
for special vessels whose speed of de-
livery would not be hampered by the
need of having to cruise round other
ports to fill their holds with assorted
produce.
Queensland provides the bulk of the
beef —it should ship 688,000 cwt. out of
an Australian quota of 828,000 cwt. »n
the current quarter and a proportionate
addition if the quota is widened.
Successful Calf-raising.
“Silky Bag”: The three main essentials
in rearing good calves, especially dairy
ones, are hygiene, nutrition and the
right climatic conditions. These factors
are rarely well enough balanced.
The part played by harmful bacteria
in the young stomach is not generally
realised. Scours, white and bloody, milk
clots and plain “bad-doing” are nearly
all traceable to the putrid condition of
feed buckets and calf sheds. When
the calf draws milk from the udder
direct, it is almost always sterile of harm-
ful intestinal organisms, and this condi-
tion must be reproduced in hand-feeding
and environment.
A clean, scalded milk-bucket, seamless
if possible, is almost vital to success, and
a fresh one should be used to feed each
calf. Undrained floors of calf-sheds and
dirty pastures are prolific sources of in-
testinal bacteria. Here, cement and duck-
boards, together with plenty of lime, are
the cures.
From the feed point of view the
established method of starving young
dairy stock has whiskers on it. Most
of the damage has already been done to
their fineness of bone in the pre-birth
stage, so that the only sensible thing to
do is feed calves up to a nice degree of
lean sleekness. Hard feeds like chaff and
long pasture are useless to them, as they
do not ruminate well until six or eight
months of age. Good clover-rye plots,
short and well-limed, together with skim
milk alone, are usually enough, but pol-
lard, linseed, etc., can be given in minute
quantities. Cod-liver oil is a great toning-
up piedicine, as it contains vitamins which
let the calf use the rest of its ration to
the best effect.
As to climate, the youngster wants a
little roughing. A shelter shed, open on
{Continued on page 24.)


gh
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World's Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
Proves best for both Stomach and Intestines
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN-
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
No More Digestive Pain
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT !
Prof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder Is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
HARRISON-MACLEAN
Complete Remedy . .
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, Intestinal Disorder, etc.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion., while it shields the bowels from attack,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS-NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief—the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be "just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse accept no substitute.
mi
Genuine Harrison • Maclean Stomach
Powder Is sold only in White Pack-
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
Every doctor, tlie World over recognises the
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders. This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to VOU, In future, eat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles ore
over if you moke sure you get
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Bights are claimed to the
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever in connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON-MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for Digestive, Intestinal and Stomach
upset accompanied by Acid, Gas, “Burning Sensation,”
Fermentation, Distention or Nausea.
See the name HARRISON on the package for your protection.
if supplies of HARRISON-MAC LEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
(adding 4d. postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney.


76
OUTSTANDING VALUE,
YET ECONOMICAL.
To the careful man this shoe rep-
resents our endeavour to give the
utmost value in workmanship and
material, at an extremely low price.
Made of Strong Calf in either
Black or Brown, it has a splendid
appearance, and can be depended
upon to give the utmost wear.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
BLACK CALF 257-
BROWN CALF ....... 25/-
Ask for a tin of Abbey Boot Polish.
Price 6dL per tin, for a better shine.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
WA 39.
Something New!
A CRUISE ROUND SQUTH ISLAND
NEW ZEALAND
Calling at . . .
MILFORD. AND OTHER FAMOUS SOUNDS.
STEWART ISLAND. DUNEDIN. LYTTELTON
AND PICTON.
“These New Zealand Sounds are
grander than the Fjords of Norway”
R.M.S. MAUNGANUI
# Leaves Sydney December 2
first class onl> Returns Sydney December 16
Fares from 20 Guineas.
14 DAYS' GLOR IOUS CRUISING
Apply
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: 87671 *
OR AT ANY TOURIST AGENCY
, K & TO c *tißy
ierr f/t
%
4
'-■'V.
wsj2n
There is always a real risk of loss attached to carrying large
quantities of money when travelling. Travellers possessed of a
Letter of Credit or of Travellers’ Cheques, issued by the National
Bank, are freed from this risk, and are assured of facilities for
financing their journeys with the utmost safety and ease. The
Bank’s Travel Service will promptly attend to Bookings, Taxation
Clearances, Passports, and many other details of travel. Write
or call for full particulars.
7/. NATIONAL BANK
Bkanches Throughout Australia
fg
21/12/36
the two sides, away from the prevailing
winds, gives enough protection for most
districts. Otherwise, calves should have
a full measure of exposure, especially in
their second year. Pampered calves are
not worth their keep in a 4001 b. herd,
just as starved, over-exposed ones will
never graduate.
Sub. Clover—Perennial or Annual.
“Stump Jump”: Sometimes it seems
doubtful whether sub. clover is a true
annual, as “Lion” (B. 24/6/’36) says.
My experience when sowing it in two
very bad years indicates that it has ways
of surviving which aren’t according to
the rules.
Both times, the clover was sown at
the rate of 21b. per acre, with 31b. of
lucerne. The soil was just moist, but,
being fairly late in the spring, the pad-
docks did not get more than a few points
of rain until the following autumn.
The clover shot well and grew into
tiny thick-rooted clumps about an inch
across, and these could be found green
until late in the summer. There was no
sign of seed formation, however, and as
the rootlets became bone-dry by March
little was expected. From the good origi-
nal germination, it was certain that few
or no seeds lay unshot in the soil.
As soon as April and May rains came
the clover shot away, and had covered
the ground thickly by the following
October. As this experience occurred
on 20in. Riverina country, I. am certain
the new season’s sub. clover plants do
not always come from seed, but that
rootlets play a part in giving it an early
start.
Fallowing v. Fertiliser.
“Hortus”: Wheat fallowing, carried
out properly, brings about just the re-
quired amount of nitrification.
Wheat eats nitrogen greedily. This
is easily seen in subsequent stubble crops.
Wheat followed by oats on stubble
often results in a yield too low to be
profitable. .Some put this low yield down
to lack of moisture compared with that
in fallow. The main cause is probably
lack of nitrogen. But can everyone
afford to fallow? It can be costly. With
a small farmer on high-priced country
the interest charges for two years—one
under fallow and one under crop—may
amount to much more than the cost
of a dressing of nitrogenous fertilisers.
In S.A. stubble-sown wheat did not
respond to the same degree as stubble-
sown oats and barley.
Sulphate of ammonia applied, in addi-
tion to super., to oats and barley sown
on unfallowed land gave increased
yields.
In good rainfall country, with longer
ripening, the result of the sulph. amm.
treatment was more pronounced.
In all cases under test there was both
an increase in yield and also a profit over
the cost of fertiliser. Figures cannot lie.
Increase in barley yield ranged from four
bushels to 23 bushels.
The latter resulted from an application
of lewt. super, and 2cwt. sulphate. One
cwt. of the sulphate gave a yield of 47.4
bushels—an increase of 19.4 bushels over
the plot receiving lewt. super, only. The
highest dressing also gave the highest
monetary return over the cost of super,
alone, which was 375. an acre.
In Victoria tests showed an increase
in number of ears produced and in size
of ears on the ammonia plots. Also, a
slight increase in the bushel weight of
the grain.
The final hay yields were: No nitrogen,
27cwt. ; ammonia (sulphate), 57cwt.
At other places the yields were: No nitro-
gen, 18cwf. hay ; sulphate, 38cwt.
: hay. The first |cwt. sulphate increased
the amount by ten bushels an acre. The
second |cwt. of sulphate increased it by
an equal amount.
Valuing oats at Is. 6d. a bushel and
hay at 30s. a ton, the profits due to the
use of Ucwt. sulphate of ammonia are
12s. 6d. for hay and 11s. for grain at
the first-mentioned place. At the second
place the profits ran to 355. for hay and
13s. for grain.
There is little doubt, then, that in over-
20in.-rainfall districts the use of nitro-
j genous fertilisers would enable the cost
of fallowing to be eliminated. In wheat
areas, however, moisture is undoubtedly
the limiting factor. So wheatgrowers
i will probably still have to fallow to allow
moisture reserves to accumulate in well-
worked land.
Hints for the Farm.
“Zamia”: Land needed for silage? A
j hundred acres under oaten hay {\\ tons
hay, 20 bushels grain p.a.). will give
2,016,0001 b. fodder, or enough to feed
1000 ewes 41b. per day for 504 days.
Even half the daily quantity would make
a useful drought ration.
.“Win”: To prevent mud picking up
on the combine’s wheels, cover them with
old motor-tyres. First the tyre should be
cut into 4ft. lengths, and then both edges
cut off so that what is left will be just
long enough to wrap round the iron tyre
of the combine, meeting underneath to
be laced.
“M.”: Dipping their feet in salt and
water—l tablespoon salt, 1 quart water —
will harden the paws of footsore sheep-
dogs. Don’t wait for the dogs to go
lame in a busy time —make the care of
their feet a regular practice after hard
going.
“X.T.”: To deal with blady grass—
the kunai and lalang of the tropics—
plough when grass is green and in full
growth, in spring or early summer, and
after rain. Leave for a fortnight and
work across with a disc cultivator. Leave
another three months and plough across
the first ploughing and a couple of inches
deeper —again after rain. Then bring to
cultivation tilth and put at once under
crop.
“Shipper”: Export lamb weights
should not run over 361 b., and a better
average to maintain is 331 b. But lambs
should always be trucked over these
weights, as they are bound to lose con-
dition in transit, and there is always loss
in freezing. Only experiment can teach
accurately what allowances are needed,
but they should run from about 10 p.c.
to 12 p.c.
“Kyabra”: In tarring the tank, two
men will save time. Let the man in-
side grease the working hand either in
fat or oil, and plunge it into an old sugar-
bag. Gather up the top end and tie at
the elbow. Use a proper tarbrush —cost
about Is. You will easily save 50 p.c. of
the tar. Do the bolt ends, nuts and seams
when tar is cool, and in between while
the tar is hot. A 25,000-gallon tank
should not take more than 90 minutes to
do, including the floor, if the man out-
side keeps the tar up.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Has the N. S. Wales Minister for Lands
still the same power with regard to the settle-
ment of returned soldiers on the land as he
had at the end of the Great War? (2) If so,
in the event of a returned soldier not having
a living area at the present, would the Minister
grant direct to him, from adjoining Crown
lands, an additional area which would bring
his acreage up to the living area of the dis-
trict ? (3) To whom should the returned sol-
dier apply ? —2084.
(1) Yes; but, though the Minister’s powers
have not been abrogated in any manner, the
state of the finances during the past five years
has precluded the purchase qf alienated land
for settlement (soldier or civilian), or the mak-
ing of advances to discharged soldiers under
(he Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Act, 1916,
except in a; few special cases. (2) No. Appli-
cation for an additional area out of Crown
lands classified for additional holdings would
be dealt with by the Local Land Board. (3)
To the Crown Land Agent of the Land Dis-
trict in which the land is situated, who will
furnish the prescribed form and any assistance
required to complete it.
* sjc *
What Victorian shires paid bounties for wild-
dog scalps last year; amount paid per scalp by
each and number of scalps paid for ? Same
information regarding this year, if available ?
—2099.
For the year ended June 30, 1935, the fol-
lowing Victorian shires paid bounties on wild-
dog scalps at the rate of £1 each (the figures in
parentheses denote the number of scalps): Avon
(7), Bright (3), Omeo (69), Lowan (18), Towong
(28). Tambo paid 15s. per scalp on 15 scalps
and Walpeup 30s. per scalp on 29 scalps.
For 1936, the only figures obtainable are: Avon
seven at £l, Lowan five at £1 and Tambo 25 at
15s.
* * * *
Is there any likelihood of an early start being
made with any of the proposed irrigation
schemes around Narrabri (N.S.W.) ? —2173.
A conference was held in Narrabri in
November, 1935, the N.S.W. Premier and the
Minister for Agriculture representing the State
Government. The following resolutions were
carried: (1) That this conference of delegates
from shire and municipal councils, graziers’
associations, agricultural bureaux, farmers and
settlers’ associations, country women’s associ-
ations and other public bodies from the north
and north-western portions of New South
Wales, urges the Government to undertake a
comprehensive survey for the conservation of
the waters of the Dumaresq, Severn, Macin-
tyre, Gwydir, Namoi and Castiereagh rivers,
and to evolve a scheme to conserve the waters
of those rivers to replace the failing supply
from artesian bores in the area. (2) That the
Government be urged to give consideration to
the need for hydro-electric power in the north
and north-west when the sites of the dams are
being investigated. (3) That the co-operation
of the Queensland Government in the scheme
be sought. (4) That when the investigation is
completed the Government be urged to begin
immediately the construction work on the
storage dams at the selected sites. The
Premier undertook to find from revenue
£lO,OOO per annum to permit of intensive sur-
veys being undertaken by the Water Conser-
vation and Irrigation Commission. This work
was immediately put in hand. Much investi-
gation and survey has been done. A site for
a head storage for the Namoi River has been
selected at Keepit, and it is proposed that a
dam be built to store about 345,000 acre feet.
Plans and estimates are at present being pre-
pared, but the date when work can be com-
menced has not yet been determined.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Be Tit, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
r
•sf
■
iia
■
■
i I
mm
mm
mm
■ ; ■
111 •
1 1 ?. * -
1I
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“Nice Riots.”— “Sun” heading.
Accompanied, doubtless, by some
charming bloodshed!
•J*
“The manager of a Sydney boot factory says
that there have been 14 marriages between
employees in a year.”
Well, isn’t it natural for boot-trade
employees to click?
“In Bankruptcy. Re Day.”— “S.M.H.”
The break of Day.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bushmen acquire the habit of sleeping face
downward.” — “Sun.”
In inverted comas, so to speak.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“American pays 200 dollars to get an attack
of hiccups stopped.”— Oddity.
But what did it cost him to get jt
started?
“ Strawberry's goin dry , ain't she?"
“I don't think so, sir—she had a good drink at the Waterhole on the
Way up."
“The magistrate said that earless drivers
must be suppressed.”— “D.T.”
It is those who have cars that worry us.
*l* -!• 4* 4*
“What we want is a leader.” — “S.M.H.”
Well, what about rhyming the present
effusions, converting the “In Memoriam”
verses into prose, and swapping them
over?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She is now a Dome of the British Empire.”
—“D.T.”
A distinction reserved for highbrows.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Angrily he strode to the telephone, intend-
ing to raise Cain.” — “Sun.”
And, of course, he got Abel.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There are differences in the warships of all
the Powers.”— “S.M.H.”
And, paradoxically, the Powers go to
war to sink their differences.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Every morning our milk is put into the
jug.”— “Sun.”
And on tasting it we wish the milk-
man would be similarly treated.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women to have equal rights with men in
Mexico.” —News item.
Now they’ll be able to run their revo-
lutions entirely separate from the men’s.
“There arc indications that West Australia s
movement for separation from the Common-
wealth is about to be revived.”—News Hem.
If at first you don’t secede, try, try
again.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Pandering to a false realism, many short-
story writers write far too baldly.” —A reviewer.
Whereas they should be hair-raising.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Bear Escapes from Circus.” —Coble Hem.
Now there’ll be trouble bruin.
4* 4* 4* 4* ~
“Soup is regaining its former popularity.
—Cooking note.
So we’ve heard!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“‘The modern girl is a great follower oi
sports,’ says a correspondent.”
More especially if they possess a car
and a bank-roll.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Quiet Change.
“You’ll have to stop football,” said the
doctor. “It may have been all right when
you were young ; but you’ll have to take
up something a bit quieter. Why, nearly
every week you come in to me with a
broken bone of some kind, and you re
never without a couple of black eyes.
And that was how Muggs became a
centre forward instead of a referee.
D. S.
4* 4* 4* 4*
No Harm in !t.
“A Sydney Judge, when told that a man in
the case had assaulted another because No. I
saw No. 2 walking one night arm in arm with
No. I’s wife, said that there was no harm in
two people walking like that, and it was no
justification for the assault.”
That’s just what I say! People are
too prone to jump to evil conclusions.
When my wife caught me kissing our
maid she went on about it absurdly. It
was no use my telling her that there was
no harm in it. She even refused to
believe me when 1 told her that the poor
girl was probably lonely, and I was just
trying to make her feel at home and
among friends, and all that sort of
thing.
1 admit I donged Pugson when I
found him playing hands with my wife
in a dark corner of the verandah. They
said he was reading her hand. I agreed
with them that there was no harm in it,
anyway; but when I pointed out to
Pugson that my plugging him was just
a little joke and there was no harm in
it he didn’t reciprocate as he should.
I warned him before he went that I
was rather fond of joking. He hasn't
called since.
That is, to my knowledge.
H. M.
-I- 4* 4- 4*
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
IX. — Lesson’s End.
Even before he has reached you the
traffic cop will have book and pencil in
hand.
“I’ll have to book you for not giving
the proper signal when you were about
to stop,” he’ll say.
“But,” your wife will rejoin, “I didn’t
mean to stop.”
“Well, that’s your pigeon! But you
did, and look at this chap’s radiator.
Your license?”
"What license?”
The gathering of a crowd meanwhile
should materially assist in putting you at
your ease. As the situation seems to
call for something from you, you say:
“She hasn’t got her license yet, officer
—l’m just giving her a lesson.”
When he says “H’m —some tutor!”
just jocularly agree with him ; in fact, it
would be a good plan to laugh heartily at
his little joke. But even that won’t put
off the evil moment too long. Here it
comes:
“Well, let’s have a look at your
learner’s permit, then.”
Here is where you get the sinking feel-
ing in the pit of the stomach. You will
recall your own words earlier in the day
(“Oh! next time you’re in town will do
to get one”). You might be shrewd
enough to say “Well, she left it at home,
officer” (stress the “officer”—it’s much
better than plain “constable”), and then
immediately you have escaped the official
toils dash into town and get one. But
the probability is that you will lick
your dry lips and stutter:
“Well—er—that is . . . she hasn’t
exactly ... 1 mean . . . you see we
intended”
“So you haven’t got one. eh?
This is serious. Allowing an un-
authorised person to drive a car.
Where’s your license?”
So you hand it over, and all
particulars are taken. You're now
in it up to your .neck.
After all the formalities are over
guide the car —the mangled gear
teeth will make driving it impos-
sible —alongside the kerb. There
it can remain until the towing sta-
tion removes it to the garage for
repairs. Then take a taxi home.
To offset the wife’s lugubrious
tone whistle blithely
and treat the matter
lightly.
Spend the next
hour or so in a little
calculation. Y o u
won’t be able to
complete it there
will be the unknown
quantity re fines,
damages and repairs.
There is also the
question of how you
stand regarding in-
surance in view of
your laxity—they’ll probably disclaim.
However, there will be a few pointers
showing about how much you'll be out:
Straightening and re-nickelling
front and back bumper bars .. £4 0 0
Realignment of front and back
wheels 1 0 0
Towing charges 3 0 0
New gearbox 20 0 0
Duco work 3 0 0
Taxi 5 0
Fines (say)* 20 0 0
Damages (say)* 10 0 0
Total *(say)* £6! 5 0
* Means conservative estimate.
When you find out that allowing un-
authorised persons', etc., is an offence
against the Act for which “clink” is a
distinct possibility, go and see a Laurel
and Hardy comedy—you’ll feel better
about it.
And when you ponder on what an
18-carat idiot you were to start to teach
her at all, when for five guineas some
other goat could have had his car mucked
up, you might feel better about that—
perhaps.
S. W. K.
4* *1- “I* v
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XXIV. — On to Hobart.
Hobart believes devoutly in its past.
Actually, its past is a pretty sticky one,
but Hobart is proud of it, on the analogy
of the reformed sinner who gives a lurid
testimony of his crimes in order to show
by greater contrast his present purity.
Hobart’s testimony consists of leg-irons,
chains, cats-o’-nine-tails, prison ruins and
other charming relics of convict days.
As far as one can gather from the
records the main achievement for which
transportation was granted was the steal-
ing of rabbits and handkerchiefs. The
authorities didn’t worry about petty
things like murder. If a man murdered
someone they decided that he must have
had a good reason or he wouldn’t have
done it, but if he stole a rabbit or a
handkerchief it was clear proof that he
had a propensity for stealing rabbits or
handkerchiefs, and therefore it was best
to transport him for life, otherwise no
one’s rab. or hkchf. would be safe.
When he arrived in Tasmania (then
called Van Demons’ Land, because of the
terrific number of police and detectives
there), the idea was to treat him rough so
that if he ever escaped and got back to
England he wouldn't steal any more r.
or h.
“ Cellin' some toothpicks?"
“No—chips fer the bathheater!"
Accordingly, he was starved for weeks
on end, flogged with leg-irons, shut up
in triangles and had cats-o’-nine-tails tied
on his feet—none of which things he
liked very much, though the tourist to-day
gets quite a kick out of ’em.
Every visitor to Hobart should take a
ride on the top of a double-decker tram —
he’ll then be grateful for his rough trip
across Bass Strait. And no one should
miss the view of Mt. Wellington from the
lop bar of the Cascade brewery.
Hobart’s policemen take life very seri-
ously, whether they be arresting gang-
sters, checking a Tatt.’s drawing or direct-
ing traffic —particularly when directing
traffic.
If you take your car to Tassie be sure
to have the horn disconnected. Tas-
manians find that the tooting of motor-
horns is fatal to that philosophic, contem-
plative calm which is so essential to a
happy acceptance of life in the Island
'State, Accordingly, footing is forbidden.
In the words of the Scottish-Hobartian
policeman to Sir Percy Whipsnoodle,
“One toot an’ ye’re oot! ”
Miss Birdseed asked someone the
penally and was told “Death for the first
offence, banishment for the second and
imprisonment for life for the third and
any subsequent offence.”
We were a little dubious of the truth
of this, and Claude Counterpane urged
Sir Percy to risk one toot, but Mrs,
Loofah, always an upholder of the law,
dissuaded him, and the tooter remained
untooted.
Jasby,
Means to an End.
Unfold to me again the subtle views
You hold on politics. Retell the
scheme
Of trade expansion you would wisely
choose
To realise your patriotic dream.
Delve into Social Credit: let me know
Wherein you find the major’s fallacy.
Describe exactly why the case be so;
And then explain your private plan
to me.
And, while explaining, don’t omit to say
With wealth of derail every reason
deep.
Please drone it in the same old soothing
way;
For I am weary and desire to sleep.
T.W.N.


STATION ABO. SKETCHES.
CHUNUMA
BY MARY
& ELIZABETH DURACK
I.
Chunuma and Some Others.
CHUNUMA was destined from the beginning to
be more than an ordinary piccaninny. He was
to be the first grandchild of Bungyee, the bush
king, and the first baby to be born into the camp
since Jingbee’s arrival seven years before, but no
one exhibited any great enthusiasm at the prospect
of the newcomer. Daisy visualised, with some dis-
favor, a little, crying, hungry thing that would hang
like a dead weight on her back when she went walk-
ing about with the others, digging for yams, hunting
goanna or climbing trees for “sugar-bag.” Perhaps,
Daisy thought, she would be left behind, to sit
in the camp all day with the old blind people.
Nobody wanted the piccaninny, for picca-
ninnies in the abstract were “nuisances,” and they
found the idea of him faintly irritating.
It was like that with the camp. Even when
Minnie contemplated the upbringing of another batch
of kittens the idea was regarded with disfavor, and it
was mooted that poor Minnie be subjected to painless
extinction, according to the advice of the whites up
at the “big ’ouse.” Nobody wanted any more kittens.
They simply couldn’t feed more than the vast family
already making ravenous demands on their food
supply. Having reached this conclusion, All-about
would cry a little over “poor old Minnie,” dwelling
with some sentiment on her own kittenhood, and
finally deciding that when the family came it would
be immediately destroyed and Minnie would be spared
them a little longer. But the family was always such
a delightful one, and —well, when you had forty
cats, six more didn’t make much difference.
And so it was with piccaninnies.
Interest in the newcomer quickened as he grew.
At first he had been light brown, with dark rings under
his eyes and around his fingernails. The older mem-
bers of the camp had set themselves assiduously to
the task of smearing charcoal and fat over the new-
born lest he grow up “little bit white pfeller.” After
the first few days it became apparent that they had
saved the king’s grandson from this fate. He was
as “properly” a black piccaninny as ever was,- with
little pointed ears, and merry eyes sloping upwards,
with straight, black brows, and a mouth that expanded
into sudden laughter, revealing a stretch of gum as
pink as a piece of watermelon. He had a little round
head, and light, reddish hair, cut rather carelessly in
no conventional mode. His figure, except in chubbiest
babyhood, was supple and straight—an expressive
form, capable of assuming lines of greatest dignity,
of joyous levity, of thoughtfulness, and very occasion-
ally of despondency.
Only Daisy continued as the months went by to
regard him with unenthusiastic eyes. He had always
been a considerable weight to carry round, and was
usually hungry. Daisy sighed.
“Wassa matter, you?” Gypsie demanded in her
most resonant, chiding tones. “Tm good, strong
piccaninny, ain’t it?”
Daisy puckered up her pretty child face.
“Strong all right!” she said. “Tm ’eavy. Me
don’t want ’im!”
Gypsie made a guttural sound of disapproval.
“Well, you don’t want ’im, me grow’m up. Me only
one longa whole camp look after’m anysing. Me
got to grow’m up wallaby, steal’m milk b’longta kitty-
kitty and puppy-dog and everysing. Me grow’m up
you piccaninny.”
Daisy beamed.
“All right,” she said.
“Only you look after ’im
properly. You make’m
sleep. You carry’m longa
walk-about; —only don’t
you drop’m my picca-
ninny!”
Gypsie would have
been the most devoted and
affectionate foster-mother
in the world to Chunuma.
but it was not long before
a dozen other would-be
foster-mothers were loudly
and jealously protesting
equal rights in his “grow-
ing up.” From the begin-
ning there had been some-
thing about Chunuma that
distinguished him from the
rest of piccaninny-kind.
Mundee, who had origi-
nally claimed fatherhood
with some reluctance, be-
gan after his arrival to swell visibly with pride. Always
inclined to swagger, he developed a positive strut after
the appearance of his son.
Up at the “big ’ouse” Chunuma had been
hailed with enthusiasm as a coming stockman, and
had had bestowed upon him the white-man name of
Jeffory, to everybody’s vast satisfaction. Jeff, mur-
mured over many times and modified finally to “Jap,”
appealed to the camp as a very sterling name indeed.
In the presence of the whites All-about punc-
tiliously addressed him as “Jap,” to show their respect
for the really worthy name that had been given him.
But as soon as he had passed behind the little red
hill, out of sight of the white-man’s world, where the
humpies of grass and tin straggled along the brink
of the billabong, he became again “Chunuma Gun-
Gungy Rainyerri.”
“Rainyerri,” with a lingering accent on the last
syllable, was the name applied in endearment by his
various foster-mothers, but Chunuma was his man
name, used by the men when they were showing him
how to throw a spear or a boomerang, or to crack
a stockwhip.
Chunuma beamed happily upon the world, made
the most precocious demands upon its time and its
possessions, and was never denied. He ate what he
wanted, when he wanted it. He was eating beef and
kangaroo and various other bush “delicacies” long
before he had any teeth to chew them with, and
nobody worried.
When the men were away mustering or branding
or hunting somewhere out on the plains, Chunuma
contented himself at home with Jingbee and the lubras
and “Bags,” a rock-wallaby, another of Gypsie’s
proteges.
Jingbee was old enough to go off hunting with
the men had he preferred it to staying at home. As
it happened, he did not. He was rather small for
his age, and his legs found considerable difficulty in
keeping pace with the long ones of his elders. He
was always a little superior to Chunuma, being a'good
seven years his senior, but Chunuma never appeared
to notice this. He and Jingbee and Bags were “mates.”
On cold nights the three would roll up in the blankets
together for warmth.
EARLY in the “walk-about” season of Chunuma’s
sixth year Jingbee entered into his manhood.
He began to evince a more marked interest
in hunting, riding and cattle work, and to
call his junior “young
pfeller” instead of the
usual “Chunuma.”
Then one morn-
ing before sunrise
Chunuma saw Jing-
bee going off with
the men, smeared
all over with a
wonderful design in
white mundic and red
ochre and feathers,
and presently from a
circle of ground be-
tween a thicket of
coolabahs there came
a sound of chanting
and stamping feet, and
Chunuma knew that
when Jingbee came
back to the camp that
night he would be a
man.
Jingbee looked
very proud and im-
portant with the white
“man band” drawn
tight across his fore-
head, a rough hair belt
about his waist, and
a set of long, tapering
spears, carefully
chiselled out of glass
and stone —not “play-
about” ones any more.
About this time,
too, Bags suddenly
disappeared from the
camp, and Chunuma
was without a friend about his own age till the arrival
of Dingyerri gave him a new mate.
It was Chunuma found her down by the river
and brought her to the camp. He was all for intro-
ducing his mate without delay to the whites up at
the “big ’ouse,” but the camp restrained him firmly.
All-about were not going to be done out of their fun
so easily. Dingyerri must be kept a secret. She must
be hidden from the whites, and all members of the
camp must take turns at playing sentry on the hill in
case one of the house community be seized with a
rare inspiration to make a tour in the direction of
their domain.
Gypsie must smuggle food to Dingyerri from
the kitchen, taking a handful of tea and sugar and
a few pieces of bread whenever opportunity availed.
She must steal calico bags from the clothes-line to
make dresses for Dingyerri. Everything about Ding-
yerri must be cloaked in mystery, and when tackled
about having stolen anything All-about would assume
expressions of martyred innocence and feel inwardly
very virtuous and self-sacrificing.
“Boss like’m piccaninny,” Chunuma argued.
“Missus like'm, too.”
The older members of the camp looked very
wise and serious and shook their heads. “White
pfeller,” they told Chunuma, “no more like’m lubra
pussy-cat—no more like’m lubra puppy-dog. Plenty
time you bin hear’m talk —‘kill’m All-about lubra
everysing.’ Well, ’im don’t like’m lubra piccaninny, too.”
This appealed to Chunuma as reasonable enough.
“Wassa good lubra piccaninny longa white
pfeller?” the camp continued. “Tm can’t grow’m
up make’m stockman.”
“Whites reckon too many lubra here now!”
Gypsie put in emphatically. “All lazy. Only eat’m
good tucker. Nobody work longa this place—only me.”
Dingyerri hailed from the Territory. They had
known that by her boomerang shins. Nobody in
the camp could speak much of her language and
she couldn’t speak any of theirs, but she managed
to make it understood by degrees that her mother
and father had been speared by her people for some
breach of tribal law. They had run away from the
Keep to the Ord River, where they had been over-
taken by their pursuers. When they were killed Ding-
yerri had hidden along the river, thinking that her
people wanted to kill her, too.
Chunuma made teaching his mate the “lang-
widge” one of his principal aims in life, still cherishing
“I'm good, strong piccaninny, ain’t it?”
a hope that something would happen sooner or later
to make it safe to introduce Dingyerri to the house.
IT was not until the walk-about blacks from every
station within two hundred miles gathered on the
Ord for a big corroboree that Chunuma discovered
Dingyerri was not the only piccaninny in the world
besides himself.
Half the station staff had transferred its abode,
temporarily, to the riverbank down by the crossing.
They had no desire to go any further afield than
that, and saw no reason why, when on holiday, they
should cut themselves off from home. If their


relatives and friends from other stations wanted to
see them they were welcome to come along, but
our camp wasn’t budging from the crossing.
It was wise, too, to remain within easy walking
distance of the station for the weekly kill, then no-
body had to bother much about catching kangaroo.
Besides, killing was too exciting an event to miss
unnecessarily—an absorbing process from the time
they had mustered the little mob into the yard till
All-about dragged the bones away in high glee to
cook on their various little fires.
“F u n niest
crowd I ever
saw,” said the
manager. “Why
don’t you go for
a decent walk-
about instead of
hanging round
the station?”
Portly old
Ulysses, the
mustering-camp cook, regarded his boss with patient
sadness.
“We not a lot of bally blackpfellers, old man,”
he said. “We don’t want ter go plantin’ away in
the bush gettin’ mixed up with a lot of myall scoun-
drels, Me an’ All-about like to poke around —see
what’s goin’ on.”
Chunuma and Dingyerri first came upon Gwennie
singing to herself under the shade of a little stringy
paper-bark, tapping two small sticks together to the
time of a corroboree.
It was obvious at a glance that she was no myall
piccaninny. Her face shone; her hair curled, guilt-
less of fat or mud, and her dress could only be de-
scribed as “flash-pfeller properly.”
Gwennie cast them one rather disinterested
glance from her enormous eyes and went on with
her song. When she had finished her corroboree she
put down her sticks and remarked without further
preliminary : “I can sing like’m crumaphone, too.’’
“Dingyerri,” said Chunuma, turning to his com-
panion. “ ’lm reckon ’im can sing like’m crumaphone.”
Gwennie needed no further encouragement to
begin. The two less sophisticated children sat down
before her on the ground and regarded her with
increasing awe as she gave them, one after another,
her remarkable repertoire of wild, uncivilised gramo-
phone ditties.
“You b’longta longa big ’ouse?” she remarked.
“You-eye,” Chunuma assented.
“Me gonna work longa big ’ouse,” Gwennie an-
nounced, “for that two-pfeller missus.”
’“White pfeller no more like’m lubra picca-
ninny,” Chunuma gasped.
Gwennie seemed not in the least disturbed.
“What for no more like’m?” she asked.
“ ’lm no good b’longta stockman,” Chunuma
explained.
“What about this kid?” asked Gwennie at last,
tilting her chin with a supercilious little movement
towards Dingyerri. “White pfeller like ’im all right,
ain’t it?”
Chunuma shook his head emphatically,
“White pfeller don’t savvy where ’im longa
camp,” he explained. “We all day plant’m there
longa humpy, steal’m everysing b’longta ’im.”
Gwennie went on tapping her sticks abstractedly
and looking long and critically at the other small
black girl.
“You don’t know much langwidge,” she observed
loftily. “Me got plenty langwidge. S’pos’m white
pfeller don’t like’m lubra, me an’ you gammon two-
pfeller boy —heasy!”
GWENNIE set about her work with confidence and
decision. From the dark recesses of various
humpies she produced two hair belts, two strips of
grimy tufkey red and an ancient rusty razor.
With the aid of the last she hacked off the
ends of her own and Dingyerri’s hair until they re-
sembled the closer, but no less unruly, crops of two ,
little boys. They had a hair belt each and a piece of
cloth knotted about their hips, two strips of white
calico adorning their brows and a smear of white mun-
dic across their faces and ribs, so that it would look
as if they had been corroboreeing the night before.
As a finishing touch, they smeared their legs and arms
with goanna fat —“make it
properly good stink,”
Gwennie explained and
picked up with two small
wire spears.
No one in the camp
bothered to inquire where
they were going when all
three set off in the direction
of the house. Chunuma
allowed himself to be led
blindly into the scheme.
“Don’t you talk me an'
Dingyerri lubra, now,”
Gwennie admonished him
as they went along.
Chunuma vowed very
solemnly not to give the
show away, and to aid and
abet Gwennie in insinuat-
ing herself and Dingyerri
on to the station staff by
every means in his power.
“Well,” said the man-
ager when they arrived be-
fore him, putting down his
paper and surveying the
diminutive trio. “Who’s
yer friends, Jeff?”
Chunuma assumed his most innocent and disarm-
ing smile.
“Two pfeller little boy mate b’longta me,” he
said guilelessly.
“H’ch,” said the white man, always interested in
anything that looked like the promise of a stockman
in a few years’ time. “What’s their names?”
“Tm no got’m name,” Chunuma said, not to
be thrown off his guard. “Tm want you to gibbit
good-pfeller white name.”
“Can they talk?” asked the
boss.
“My word!” said Gwennie,
no longer able to withhold the
revelation of her importance.
“Me got’m
plenty lang-
widge. This kid
here no got’m
much lang-
widge,” motion-
ing condescend-
ingly to Ding-
yerri. “Only
we can soon
learn’m.” -
“Poor little boy no got’ni mother,” Chunuma
put in sadly. “No got’m father, too. Two pfeller
bin get speared.”
“So you want to sit down here, do you?” asked
the manager addressing the crouching Dingyerri.
“You-eye,” Chunuma answered, acting as inter-
preter. “By-an’-bye ’im grow’m up make’m good-
pfeller stockman b’longta you.”
Gwennie, closely watching the effect of these
various announcements on the white man, and evi-
dently considering it a favorable one, decided it was
high time that something was said for herself.
“Me not got’m mother, too,” she said. “Me only
got a no-good father. Plenty time ’im bin kill’m me.”
“All right, then,” said the manager in a tone of
dismissal. “You’re on the books. Now clear out —
I’m busy.”
“Me close up starve, boss,” said Gwennie appeal-
ingly. “I can sing like’m crumaphone.” And she seated
herself on the verandah and commenced:
“I don’t work for a living,
l get along all right without.
/ don’t toil all day,
P’raps it’s because I’m not built dat way.”
“Holy Moses!” ejaculated the boss. “Where the
devil did you learn that?”
“Longa that station where I bin before,”
Gwennie explained, waving her hand in the direction
of a neighboring homestead something less than forty
miles away. “Good station that one. Boss bin all-
day gibbit me lolly, apple, oranch and cake, too.”
She heaved a long sigh.
The manager scratched his head and regarded
the dusky prodigy quizzically. “I wouldn’t mind
bettin’ you was young Gwennie I ’eard the drovers
talk about, for all yer warpaint and ’air
belts! ”
Gwennie beamed with gratification.
“My oath!” she said. “Me savvy All-
about drover. Me bin go longa everybody drovin
camp, sing like’m crumaphone. All-about drover
reckon me smart kid properly—gib bit me apple and
oranch and cake and everysing.” She sighed deeply
once again. “Gripes, me,’ungry!”
“You little devil!” said the boss. “I s’pose the
other one’s a girl, too!”
Dingyerri trembled and hung her head till only
her lashes protruded beyond her forehead. The others
maintained a discreet silence.
The manager laughed.
“Well, it don’t make much difference.” he said.
“We’ll all be broke before you’re old enough to make
decent sorts o’ stockmen. You can play about ’ere
and learn to be useful in the house.” He turned to
Chunuma. “But, by the Lord ’Arry, I’m gonna
murder you.”
Chunuma, well acquainted with his boss’s
vehement mode of address, looked at him and beamed.
Dingyerri was “on the station books.”
11.
Boxer, the Gold-seeker.
THERE were two camps on the riverbank at walk-
about time a little isolated from the rest. These,
being a few hundred yards apart, were distin-
guished from those other, rpore primitive, temporary
abodes by flaunting canvas awnings, very grimy and
“I can sing like’m crumaphone.”
somewhat battered certainly, but nevertheless dis-
Anguished.
Outside each a fire burned brightly, surrounded
by sundry camp-ovens, a few billycans and one or
two old saucepans. From the ridgepole of one fly
there waved and billowed in the wind a shirt, mauve
with age, but newly-washed—a pennant of superior-
ity. From the ridgepole of the other there danced
and fluttered merrily a pair of muddy and excessively
ancient trousers, bearing no pretentions whatsoever
to cleanliness —a symbol of independence.
Outside each awning, smoking, each with his
back turned deliberately upon the other, sat an old
blackfellow.
The one sat, characteristically, entirely alone.
The other had company—a pleasant-faced, stout old
lubra, very clean and shiny and somewhat after the
type of a black American mammy. The latter divided
her time between her puppies and the dress she was
making for herself out of about ten calico flourbags
and a strip of turkey twill. Her spouse addressed him-
self to her only occasionally, receiving answer in little
more than a cheerful grunt.
“De old mongrel!” murmured Ulysses, tilting his
head back ever so slightly towards the solitary figure
in the opposite camp. Dinah nodded and went on
with her stitching. There was a long pause while
Ulysses brooded on his wrongs.
“ ’E come up to boss last Wet,” he continued at
last, “reckon ole Ulysses cornin’ prospectin’ with me!
Man can’t stand for that! I tell boss: ‘No plurry
fear! Boxer cornin’ with me.’”
Dinah heard him out patiently.
“Old scoundrel!” Ulysses went on with rising
ire. “Then ’im talk —‘All right! You can find you
r’own bally goldmine! ’ That bin one whole year ago
now, an’ ’im bin campin’ dere longa ribber three days
an’ ’im don’ come to see me. You know we bin
piccaninny together—-me an’ Boxer”
“Might ’im waitin’ for you to see him,” Dinah
suggested placidly.
Ulysses straight-
ened his broad shoul-
ders.
“No p 1 u r r y
fear!” He tilted his
head once more in
the direction of his
rival. “What's ’e
doin’ now?” he asked.
“Can’t see prop-
erly,” Dinah said.
“Might be plaitin’
kangaroo hide.”
Ulysses snorted.
Plaiting was an art he
himself had never
mastered, but of
which Boxer was an
expert.
“P lai t i n’! ” he
ejaculated with scorn.
“ ’Bout all he’s good
for! ”
It was at this moment that three familiar small
figures were seen approaching Dinah sighed, laid
down her sewing, and gathering up her puppies in
one motherly swoop thrust them into the recesses
of a packing-case. This she covered with a flat board
and firmly sat upon it.
“Put’m lid longa you stew, Ulysses,” she sug-
gested, “and plant’m that honey chomewhere. S’pos’m
young Gwennie find’m—finish! ”
“Good-day, old man!” Chunuma greeted Ulysses.
Ulysses chuckled.
“Old man you’self,” he said good humoredly.
Gwennie seated herself on the ground beside the
fire and eyed the saucepan.
“Gripes! Me an’ All-about ’ungry!” she said
wistfully.
“Go on!” Ulysses replied defensively. “You
got plenty tucker longa you r’own camp,”
Gwennie shook her head.
“Tucker altogether finish ober dere,” she said.
“Ain’t it, Chunuma?”
The latter nodded, adding almost inaudibly on
a sudden scruple. “Close up, anyway.”
“Well, you not gettin’ none o’ my stoo,” Ulysses
said firmly. “Now, then, Gwennie, what you doin’
there longa fire?”
Gwennie, who
peared to be performing
some juggling trick in the
coals, looked up guile-
lessly.
“Nothin’! ” she said,
rising casually, passing
behind the box upon
which Dinah was seated,
and throwing herself down
on the other side of
Ulysses.
Conversation con-
tinued in a desultory
manner for a minute or
so. Dinah picked up her
sewing again, a little
drowsily, and nodded over
it. Gwennie giggled.
Chunuma stuffed his fist
in his mouth in a vain
endeavor to suppress his
mirth. Dingyerri stood,
her eyes riveted expect-
antly upon Dinah’s un-
conscious motherly form.
“Wassa matter, you
kids?” Ulysses asked a
trifle suspiciously.
Gwennie choked, almost hysterical with suspense,
There was a sudden loud report from the back
of the packing-case. Dinah leapt into the air with
(Continued on page 50.)


memorise,,™ easE
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition,)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FRO 4 “THE BULLETIN," Q/O POST
252 George St, Sydney, ® FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
C. DARVALL. General Manager.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Those Who Push the Knot:-
On The Battle
BY HECTOR FERCUSON
I HADN’T been long in Hogan’s com-
pany before 1 jerried there was only
one real smart bloke on the battle,
and that was Hogan.
I was working the smalls with the
“Kantkrack” clothes-peg protector, the
usual old mothball smeller and a pro-
prietary line of ray own entitled “Anti-
ant,” and had mated up for the night with
a travelling saddler camped a mile or so
outside Koondal, when Hogan blew along
just before sundown.
He dumped his swag—a real rattler-
jumper’s cigarette roll it was —and put
the hard word on Waxend for a doss
underneath the wagonette. Waxend was
an easygoing old
stitcher, and says
real homely,
“Help yourself,
mate ; you’re wel-
come to what’s
he r e.” These
travelling outfits
are mostly all
built that way,
with the exception
of the rag
hawkers, who
either feed on
garlic or smoke
hookahs. I can’t
come at either, so
!hey get the go-by.
Old Waxend.
Old Waxend had just finished a job on
a stockwhip which was thrown across a
saddle straddling the wagon pole when
Hogan drifted in. He gets an eyeful of
the stock-horse accessories and asks the
old stitcher if she’s a droving plant.
“She’s not,” says Waxend. “She’s a
saddle, harness and boots repaired, also
veterinary surgeon—that’s my lay.”
Hogan walks around the outfit and
then makes a modest little speech all
. bout Hogan. “Hogan’s me name,” he
rays, “and I’m a battler. I never come
at hard yakka, and I’m never stiff. 1 can
get booze and grub where another bloke
drinks water and pulls in his belt. There’s
not another stunt-worker on the battle in
my class, and I’ll prove it. I guarantee I
can breast this town here, get all the slops
1 want and as much tucker as I can carry
away, and it won’t cost me a razoo. It
can’t, because 1 got no razoos. If youse
blokes could do a booze or want ham and
eggs for supper, say so and you’ll have
them if there’s a pub, pigs and hens in
the place.”
Do a booze! I had a mouth on me like
the bottom of a birdcage, and old Wax-
end comes out of his trance and reckons
he can stand a transfusion of Nelson’s
blood.
“Goodo,” says Hogan, “I’ll do me stuff.
You, Horseface,” he says to me, “just get
your lamps on this.”
He picks up the stockwhip and does a
Dan Hassett turn of fancy cracking,
“Crackajack Hogan,” he says, “that’s me.
Have you got another tickler?” he asks,
and Waxend produces the wagon whip.
“Splice a good heavy cracker on her,”
says Hogan ; “then you and me’ll go for
a walk.”
Down the track they went towards the
town, and in about ten minutes or so I
hears a machine-gun barrage of whip
firing and shouts of “Hi! Yi! Wow!
Yow!” with the yells and whip-cracks
gradually working back to the camp,
until I saw Hogan and the stitcher acting
like a pair of nuts. They were punching
an imaginary mob of hornies along the
track.
I wasn’t feeling too happy. There are
queer blokes on the road, and 1 knew old
Waxend was a hatter as soon as I started
to yike with him.
“Now, Horseface,” says Hogan, “you
imshee into the township and wait for
me on the pub verandah. And, remember
this, you never seen me before, com-
pree?”
I had been among plenty goofies, but
this was a newy on me. Anyhow the pub
sounded 0.K., cuckoo or not.
IT was well dark when I hit the village,
but a dim light on a verandah guided
me right, even had my instinct failed.
After a while Hogan showed up mounted
on one of Waxend’s horses, and calls out
“Hi there!” in a bossy sort of way.
Bung came out and saw the best imita-
tion of a cattleman that ever mas-
queraded in dog-poisoners, spurs and big
hat. Hogan must have checked up the
complete inventory of Waxend’s ward-
robe.
“Anyone here by the name of
Cameron?” he asks.
The publican said there wasn’t, “at
least not yet,” he says, “but, of course, he
might turn up any time.”
“Goodo,” says Hogan, “I’ll wait,” and
he gets off the crock. That moke has
got everything on Hogan could find in
the stitcher’s camp. Quartpot, hobbles,
saddle bag, horse bell with the tongue
tied, and an oilskin strapped across the
On the house.
pommel. Hogan had been niggling at
her with the darbies ; she’s dancing about
and sweating like a relief-worker at
work.
“Might as well have one, I suppose,”
says Hogan, clanking up to the bar, and
after calling for a pot he acts silent.
“Drover?” asks Bung.
“Yairs,” drawls Hogan.
“Thought there was a plant making in, ’
says Bung. “ I heard a lot of work going
on a bit ago up the stock route. 1 sup-
pose that was your outfit?”
“A few stragglers broke,” explains
Hogan, “but we got ’em all held safe
now” ; and he does the strong, silent stuff
again.
Not so the publican. That Bung had
a greater thirst for information than an
insurance company investigating a claim.
Inside five minutes he knows Hogan is
the boss drover ; is giving delivery to a
man named Cameron ; that the team will
be paid off and that Hogan won’t permit
any of the hands to come into the pub
until after delivery is given. “Business
first and the bust after,” says Hogan.
“And quite right, too,” agrees Bung.
“Have one on the house, Mr. Hogan,”
Drover?” asks Bung.
he says, cheerfully and frequently, and
then Hogan spots me restlessly pacing the
verandah with the old mouth like a fowl-
house floor.
“Come and have a drink,” Hogan
shouts out.
The publican sets them up and says:
“I’ll slate them for you, Mr. Hogan.”
Why that Bung didn’t get writer’s
cramp, I don’t know, unless he could
write Pitman both hands.
“Take a job on?” Hogan asks me
during an interval.
“Give us the lowdown on it first,
boss,” I comes back. “If it’s milking
cows or offsider to the cook, count me
out,” and I spins my empty back.
Anyhow, Hogan engaged me to drive
the gear cart back to his depot (Hogan
knew the words all right), slated me a
bottle of rum and instructed me where
to find his plant.
“Any chance of knocking up the store-
keeper, boss?” Hogan asks the publican.
“That’s easy, Mr. Hogan,” he says.
“You’re looking at him right now. I
run the store, the pub and the butcher’s
shop if you want anything.”
“We don’t want no meat,” Hogan says,
“but I’ll be looking at your store.”
Hogan tips me off and I mooches back
to Waxend, and when Hogan ambles in
me and the old stitcher have just about
settled the Tom Thumb. Hogan had cer-
tainly said a slateful; he was loaded fore,
aft and inside.
“There she is,” he says, “Crackajack
Hogan, the slickest stunt-worker on the
road, that’s me. Six bottles of slops, a
bottle of Queensland Jamaica and
enough grub to start a boarding-house
for bank-clerks. What do you think of
me, Waxend? Ain’t I the smartest ever?
Youse blokes .make me laugh, Horse-
face, with your little packets of ant spoof
and your clothes-peg gadgets. What do
you get out of it, anyhow, besides a sore
throat, corns and an odd zack the women
sling just to get rid of you? You scare
them into it, Horseface. Anyway, with
a face like you got you could frighten
deeners out of them just by calling.”
THE more booze Hogan put away, the
more he skited. By the time the
slops were finished me and Waxend had
listened-in long enough.
“Oh, I don’t know that you’re so hot,”
I tells him. “You want too many props.
You couldn’t have pulled it off without
the stitcher’s gear and our work on the
side. Now me, Hogan, I work solo. I
rake off the full hundred
per cent, of the clean-up.
I got no side-kicker to
ditch me and I get oof,
the £ s. d. Your turn gets
booze and grub which you
got to divvy out. No,
Hogan, I’m all for the
single life in trade.”
But you can’t knock a
bloke like Hogan. He’s
so wrapped up in himself
he’s like a mummy. “I
can get the oof when 1
want it,” he says, “and get
it he-man ways, too, with-
out putting the wind up
pool" little women in
lonely houses. Take it
from me, Horseface, you
don’t even start in my
division.”
“Don’t fall out, boys,” puts in old Wax-
end. “Just open the Nelson’s blood and
let us have a friendly drink.”
“No,” says Hogan, “you help your-
self to the pig meat and hen-fruit, but
the bottle travels with Hogan,” and he
stuffs it inside his pocket.
At daylight me and Hogan are away.
The “You own the railways, use them’
advice provided the transit on a slow
goods, and in the late afternoon we
steamed into a little town called Wood-
side, planted in the middle of a plain.
Woodside was “ong feet,” as they pro-
nounce it. The annual show was on,
combined with a “Back to Woodside
Week.” We are looking around for a
likely place to work the Kantkrack and
Anti-ant racket when we sees the circus
tents.
“Look there, Hogan,” I says, pointing
to the show, “capitalise that; get a booze
out of it; get a feed out of it; but, what’s
more urgent, get a frogskin out of it.
You can’t do it, Hogan ; and why can t
you? Because you want a Tom Mix hat,
a calfskin vest, fringed trousers, six-
shooters and a lasso ; then you’d be
Wild Andy from Arizona, and you might
be able to bite a booze or two. You
watch me, Hogan. I work solo ; 1 get no
kicks because I carry no side-kicker, and
I take the rake-off. ’
“I’ll pick you up when they pelt you
out,” is all he says when I move up to
attack.
“Where’s the boss?” I asks a bloke in
uniform with a wire broom.
“That’s him over there,” he says, point-
ing to a podgy little man wearing carpet
slippers, a soup-decorated waistcoat and
a long moustache.


*
The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
BRISBANE, JULY 10, 1936.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and eleventh Report, with the
Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended June 30 last, after allowing
for Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of Income,
Land and other Taxes payable during that period, reducing
Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £2500, making
provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts and *all known Contin-
gencies and including Recoveries, amounts to
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
June 30, 1935 ' ■
Making a total of
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 4 per cent,
per annum for the Half-year ended December 31, 1935,
amounting to
Leaving for Distribution . .
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum for the Half-
year ended June 30, 1936 £35,000 0 0
(Free of Queensland Income Tax and without deduction in
respect of Federal Income Tax payable by the Bank.)
Balance to be Carried Forward £19,935 18 7
£54,935 18 7
There has been a sustained demand for accommodation over the past 12 months, attributable
to the requirements of Industry following a continuance of stability in economic conditions.
Total deposits show an increase of £194,986, those bearing interest being £165,397 higher,
and those not bearing interest £29,589 higher.
During the period under review we have purchased and cancelled £64,146/1/3 of our
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock. These transactions, together with minor dealings in
Australian Consolidated Loan, were profitable to us.
It is with pleasure I have to say that the pastoral areas of the State, which for the past
12 years have struggled in the throes of a drought, with resultant heavy losses in live stock,
have within the last six months had most useful rains, and given anything like good seasons
for the next few years it should not be long before the natural increase in sheep and cattle
again restores a reasonable degree of prosperity, provided, of course, that to assist rehabilitation
a measure of relief from burdensome overhead expenses be extended in extreme cases of
distress by all parties charged with the well-being of the industry. Prices for export
commodities are in the main satisfactory, and the outlook for chilled beef is reassuring.
Generally throughout the State there has been a substantial reduction in the total of funds
available for investment, new issues of capital by Public Companies having been a material
factor in making demands on the market. Interest rates have in consequence slightly
hardened.
* Reserves have not been drawn upon during the current year.
£2500 is recommended for depreciation of the Bank Premises and Furniture.
Reference to the Balance Sheet will show the extra details required by the provisions of the
Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Injune, Proston and Tara
(Q'ld.), and no Branches have been closed.
By Order of the Board,
D. S. FORBES,
Chief Inspector.
* The additional information starred is published in accordance with the provisions of the
Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
£ 54,935 18 7
The Queensland National Bank Limited
BALANCE SHEET as at June 30, 1936.
* Authorised
Capital ..£2,000,000 0 0
*Subscribed
Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
Capital paid up 1.750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 860.000 0 0
Pro fi t and
Loss .. 54,935 18 7
I n t erminable
Inscr i b e d
Deposit
Stock .. 2,750,842 9 0
£5,415,778 7
Bills payable and other
Liabilities .. .. .. 349,040 18
Deposits .. .. .. .. 8,646.021 3
*The additional information
starred is published in accord-
ance M’itfi the provisions of
the Queensland Companies
Act of 1931.
Coin, Bullion,
Austral 1 a n
Notes, and
Cash at
Bankers ..£1,265,490 |9 10
Commonwealth
Loans
(u n d e r
cost or face
value, and
prov i s i o n
is held to
adjust t o
market
value) .. 2,295,409 8 2
Cash Balances 138,745 8 6
Bills remitted
and in tran-
situ .. 570,355 9 9
Money in
London at
call and on
short notice 15,000 0 0
£4.285.001 5 3
Advances to Customers, Bills
Discounted and all other
Accounts *(exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) 9,578,296 17 7
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery *(at cost less
amounts written off) .. 547,542 511
(Of the Bank Premises
figures £170,000 is revenue-
producing.)
£14,410,840 9 9
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT for Year Ended June 30, 1936.
To Interim Dividend paid Feb.
13, 1936 £35,000 0 0
„ Balance at June 30, 1936 . . 54,935 18 7
£89,935 18 7
By Balance from June 30, 1935 £18,787 15 11
„ Net Profit for Year Ended
June 30, 1936 .. .. 71,148 2 8
£89,935 18 7
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
By Balance £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
* The total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London and
Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year ended June 30, 1936, was
£2430.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
W. HAMILTON HART, Director.
D. S. FORBES, for the General Manager .
* We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as
to exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on June 30, 1936. We
have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
LANCE A. JONES, F.F.LA. \ ...
R. D. KENNEDY, F.I.C.A. ] Audltols -
July 10, 1936.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on THURSDAY, August 13, 1936, at Noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended June 30, 1936.
To elect two Auditors and tlx their remuneration for the ensuing year.
“Are you the kingpin of the works?”
I asks the fat bloke.
“I am the sole proprietor of Crilly’s
all-star hippodrome and menagerie, my
man,” he says haughty-like ; “what is it
you want?”
“Well, it’s this way, boss,” I begins.
“I’m bringing in a load of people in my
truck for the circus to-night and I run out
of petrol about ten miles out. I want a
few bob to buy juice, as the locals here
won’t give a man nothing on tick.”
“I know, I know,” says Crilly. “How
many patrons have you aboard the
truck?” he asks.
“Fourteen,” I tells him, “all adults.”
“All right,” says Crilly, “here’s half a
note.”
HOGAN sees Crilly dook me the half
jim and tries to square off. “Not bad,
Horseface, not bad at all,” he says.
“Anyway, you’ve earned a booze. Come
on.”
“Nothing doing,” I tells him. “I’m a
solo player and I haven’t finished yet.”
We hang around the burg until it gets
time for the circus to open and the lights
go up. As soon as I see a mob of circus
patrons numbering about the same as I’d
told the manager, 1
shepherds them to
the ticket-box, and
as they passes in-
side I buttons
Crilly, now looking
like a cross between
a shopwalker and a
brasshat. “Them’s
my lot, Mr. Crilly,”
I says. “I got them
in all right.”
“Very good, my
man, very good,”
says Crilly. “It
promises to be a
wonderful house, a
magnificent house,
and no free list.”
Then he invites
me to what he calls
Loaded fore, aft and inside:
“backstage” to have a gargle and a
snack.
“Always have some nourishment before
I take the ring,” he says, and leads me
to a table set up with lager, plonk and
biscuits. “Help yourself,” he says, and
like a mutt I flew for the plonk and
overdoes it.
When I saw there was nothing left to
stay for, I got outside, where Hogan was
still waiting, and he carts me off to where
we dumped our swags. We crawled into
an empty in the railway-yard and snores
off.
Sometime during the night a bloke
wakes me up and shines a bull’s-
eye light on me. He says something
about false pretences, Crilly’s circus
and police. When he says I got to hand
over ten bob to save trouble I’m wide-
awake, and catches the gleam of silver
buttons on his cat. I pulls the crackler
out of the lining of my hat. and gives it
to him. He dowses the light and leaves
me to it.
The sun’s well up when I come to, and
I pulls Hogan out. “Come on,” I says.
“I’ve got to peddle the clothes-peg and
get a booze toot sweet. The cops got me
for Crilly’s half jim while you were snor-
ing off.”
“So, Horseface, the solo man, has to
put over the spoof stuff to get a booze, ’
he says. “Well, you leave it to Cracka-
jack Hogan. Come on.
He leads me straight to the pub. “Two
rums and chasers,” he calls out loud and
cheeky just as if he had the money, and
then he pulls off his hat and drags a ten-
bob note out of the lining.
“What did I tell
you?” he starts off.
“Hogan the Crack-
ajack, Hogan the
stunt-worker. Leave
everything to
Hogan. You and
your little racket
and scaring females
wouldn’t get you a
drink in a hurry if
your tongue was
hanging out. Now
m e, Horseface,
I”
“Cheese it,
Hogan,” I cuts in ;
“let’s get going and
work the next
town.”
When we have the knots rolled and are
all set for the getaway, Hogan drags out
from underneath the truck a porter’s
jacket and a train lantern. “I got to give
these back to the night-officer,” he says ;
“he’s a sport, that bloke.”
Me and Hogan are partners now. We
are in the photograph business—that is,
we collect photos, and deposits for en-
largements—and we are playing fair.
We send back the original photos, with
the postage paid.
A Brief Sketch:-
THE GAMBLER
BY J.A. CHRIST OMAR.
I WAS going home from a dance when
I first noticed him. I had missed the
one o’clock tram, and had to wait
half an hour at Wynyard.
He came up the stairs, a tall, tired-
looking man with deep, brown eyes.
“Quite expressionless,” 1 said to myself ;
but his hands were not. They were
long, smooth-skinned, nervous. He kept
putting them in and out of his over-
coat pocket, sometimes looking at them
as if to count the fingers. Now and then
he took an end of his moustache be-
tween finger and thumb
You could tell he was a “regular,”
though he carried neither bag nor news-
paper. When the tram came in he walked
along the corridor to a seat in the corner
and sat contemplating his knees without
gazing at the other passengers, looking
up only to nod to the conductor. I
couldn’t place him. Something to do
with handling money, I thought. Per-
haps the secretary of some club, or some-
thing like that.
A short, untidy man carrying a worn
kitbag sat down beside him.
“Hullo, Jack ; how’s it going?” said
the newcomer, taking a paper out of
the bag and fixing the bag between his
feet.
Just before the tram rumbled off I
heard the tall man speak.
“Fair,” he said. “Had a good night
the night before last, and it wasn’t bad
early to-night. But last night I had a
pretty bad run. Still”
Whatever else he may have said was
lost in the rattle of the tram in the
tunnel; but I could give a shrewd guess.
Poker perhaps, or two-up. Evidently he
made a business of it, too. Three nights
running, anyway.
I saw the gambler take a piece of
paper from his pocket and show it to
his companion, pointing to it. And
then, “I had a twenty here, and the
night before last I averaged eighteen over
eight”
Pounds probably. It was a wonder 1
hadn’t thought of him as a gambler
before. Those hard, brown eyes and
those long, nervous hands. Yes, he
looked the part.
THE girl friend was keen on dancing,
and I saw the gambler half a dozen
times during the next few weeks. Always
he sat in the corner, always the same.
One night he looked worried. The
game must be going against him. There
was an anxious wife waiting up, no
doubt.
Perhaps there were children who
would have to go short.
I thought of him often, and began to
admire him and to talk about him to
friends. An interesting fellow, and more
—a clever man matching his wits against
others as clever in the only way he knew
of making a living.
Connors was sure he knew the chap.
Couldn’t remember the name, but one
night Connors had gone with a couple
of mates to a place up at the Cross, and
this tall chap had been there playing
Slippery Sam. Been there every night
for a couple of years, Connors had
heard. Didn’t know whether he’d ever
had much of a clean-up or whether he
did anything in the daytime.


lo
m
■
:
L " i
ST/TINS
STUBBORN
TOOTH DECAY
NG GUMS
for clean, sound teeth...
remove FILM this special way
Science issues a warning . . . that the fate of your
teeth may rest on what you do to remove film! Dare
ypu risk ineffective methods when film: may lead to
such serious consequences? Can you afford to trust
precious tooth enamel to any but a special film-remov-
ing dentifrice?
21 years ago a group of men discovered a scientific
fact known to comparatively few— -that film should
be removed if teeth are to be kept clean and sound,
if gums are to remain healthy.
A special formula was devised. Since then it has been
constantly improved with one thought in mind; to
remove film safely. To-day, Pepsodent is known as
the "special film-removing tooth paste.” It has been
proved unexcelled in the way it removes the film that
glues decay germs to teeth. Millions know how it
polishes teeth to natural brilliance. Other dentifrices
may promise film-removing action. But are they
equally effective? Can these other kinds remove film
with the same safety?
Pepsodent is SAFE —effective
In fair and unbiased laboratory tests, it was shown
that Pepsodeht’s special polishing material was the
softest—and therefore safest ... of 15‘ leading tooth
pastes and 6 leading tooth powders. Pepsodent con-
tains no grit, nothing to harm the teeth.
Use Pepsodent Tooth Paste twice a day, see your
dentist at least twice a year.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
w
CO
Is'#
so
tii
NEW
TUBE
OLD
TUBE
mm
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have
cut costs and we are
passing the saving on
to you. The identical
time-proved Pepsodent
is ready for you in
the new larger tubes
at no increase in price.
N 1366
I decided that I’d use Connors’s name
as an introduction to the gambler next
time 1 saw him. But next time I boarded
the one-thirty the little man with the bag
was sit mg next to him
L remembered that the little man got
off at North Sydney, so I sat just in
front of them, biding my time.
The gambler had another piece of
paper on his knee and was showing his
friend something written on it ~
“Done pretty well this week,” he said
“I’ve had a lot of twenty ”
I mentally determined that I’d ask him
how he calculated his winnings.
I didn’t hear much more as there was
a bit in the paper about one of the Eng-
lish footballers’ country games 1 hadn’t
read, but just before we got over the
bridge I looked up to see if Shorty was
getting off. Then I heard the gambler
speak.
“i had a galley down to-night,” he
confided, “with only one mark in it. Not
bad eh? »
' • ... .. ~ cu ,
J°° n § ht 11 wasn l L ! sai , d lA
The end of another illusion! He
wasn,t a gambler. Just a compositor on
piecework. A “twenty-em” measure was
* ood since in that he could set a batch
of co Py ff uicker than in a shorter
measure. There may have been a wife
and kids, but they wouldn’t have to go
on tke do^e -
I heard Shorty’s “Good night, Jack!"
but 1 didn’t move into the vacant place,
1 went on reading the paper.
Sounds.
founds of a long-lost countiysidc,
Skies uncrowded and fields flung wide,
Come to me times at eventide.
Even to an inner ear made sweet
Where the tides of the city merge and meet
At the flooded gateways of Flinders-street.
Sounds of the south winds blowing, blowing
Pipes of green where the oats are growing,
Springtime sounds of the young calves lowing.
Sound of bullock bells, stumbling through
Summery twilight drenched with dew,
Sound of swans in midnight blue.
. . , ~ .11,1-11
A magpie s song from the bleaching husk
Of a ringbarked gum, or deep in the musk
The sound of a bronzewing crooning at dusk.
,
WIS? ,h" i "tpt lo wf s l! a rd n %Ke lieat-haze
swoons
All through the long hot afternoons.
Sound of the dray-wheels turning slow,
Plodding homeward through sunset’s g10w...
Sound of a voice hushed long ago.
„ . . . ... .... . ~
Faint echoes that still abide,
Loved and longed for and long denied,
Haunting me still, at eventide.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.
Transience.
The soft, slow-moving fingers of the dusk
~ , ...
Move oer the earth s dim face,
Blurrin S the shar P ly silhouetted trees,
And lending all a quiet brooding grace.
So swift the day has flown
g re we cou | d make its loveliness our own.
To . morrow may be loveiy as to . day>
) n r j c h er garments clad,
.
As rac *iant ant * glad,
But strange—not dear, as this which steals
away.
T X • ■ ~.
Is nothing permanent? Will nothing bide
»■>«• "» *•*■*. ■>“« * ««sßed?
Is it the very sense of vanishing
That tips with gold the wing,
And stirs us to such wistful tenderness,
A - f nthpr dav
As 11 no otnei aay
Clad in green robes or grey.
. ...
Could bring such shining gifts, or with such
benison bless?
QUEENSLAND.
EMILY BULCOCK
A Fine, Dramatic Serial Closes:-
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
lUUC.TPA.TeD
©v
->u rrf
Chapter IX. —( Continued .)
SHE returned to Murdoch.
“I’m going to leave you for a
while, ’ she said.
He had to rouse himself from an indis-
tinct state, and she repeated her state-
ment. She half expected him to protest,
but he took the news calmly.
“I’ve told you it’s not worth while,
Joyce ; but, of course, if you've made up
your mind, I won’t try to stop you any
more. I expect you’ll feel better if you
know you’ve done everything you can for
me.”
“That’s right. And I’ll be as quick as
I can. I’ll see you again quite soon.”
“No doubt. But I’ll be surprised if I
can see you.”
“Nonsense! You’re better than you
think you are. It’s a longer way down
than most of us realise, and you're strong.
You’ll be able to talk to me when I
come back.”
A clearness came into his eyes.
“I hope you’re right; but I want to say
a word or two before you go. You’re
not rushing away at once, are you?”
“I want to go as soon as possible. I’ve
listened to you too long already.”
His face grew pinched and a looseness
came about his mouth.
“Damn this weakness!” he exclaimed.
“I’ve got to lie here and rely on words,
and at any moment you like you can
turn round and walk away from me. I
can’t stop you from going out of that
door if you want to ; I can’t run after you
and make you look at me and hear what
1 want to say to you. I can’t even raise
my legs.”
She drew a chair to the side of the
lounge and sat near him.
“There,” she said, leaning forward,
“I’m close enough to you now. You can
put a hand on my shoulder if you want
to and keep me from running away.
There’s something troubling you, isn't
there? I think you had better tell me :
but you must be as quick as you can, for
I should be on my way.” •
The strain went out of his face..
“You’re good, Joyce. You’ve put up
with a lot from me, and you can still be
patient. There! I’ll put one hand on
your shoulder for a moment or two.
You don’t mind?”
“Of course not!”
“It’s a good, straight shoulder, too.
All right, then. I won’t waste time. And
it’s true that there’s something I want to
say. I’ve been trying to get up courage
for it, and I dare not hesitate any longer.
I want you to do something for me. The
strange thing is that no one else could do
it. It’s a big thing, too ; and after all
I’ve done to you I haven’t much right
to ask a kindness.”
“You can ask anything from me. If
it’s in my power I’ll do it.” ,
“I thought you would say something
like that. You don’t alter.”
He was watching her closely, as if
anxious to see the smallest change in
her face.
“I’ve been thinking of Papua, of my
own piece of it—the gipsy country. I’ve
had pictures of it as I’ve been lying here,
and sometimes the shadows go away and
I see the top of Weary Mountain looming
above them. There are things that come
and go before me and melt away in mist:
the hills and the lakes and the smoke of
fires above the jungle. It’s strange the
way the jungle comes back. If I lie
quietly I can smell the trees that lie
soaking all day in sunlight. I can smell
the scrub in the morning and the damp,
hot soil that steams along the river-bank.
I can hear things, too: the wash and
whisper of the river, the creaking of
timbers in the heat, the sound of the
wind in the night and the chanting of
Kanakas as they sit together in the dusk.
I could weary you with a tale of sights
and sounds if I had the time or the
strength. And the thought beneath it
all, Joyce, is that it’s lost to me. 1
turned my back on it because of you ;
and now I’ve lost everything.”
“What do you want?” she asked, keep-
ing her eyes steady.
“I want to go back,” he whispered, his
eyes fixed in a stare. “J want to go back
there: to the river and the jungle and the
high mountain.”
She tried to bear his glance and the in-
creased pressure of his hand on her
shoulder without flinching.
“You’ll go back, Murdoch, in good
time. When you’re well again”
“I don’t mean that,” he broke in with
something of his old impatience. “I’m
not dreaming after impossible things. I’ll
never see the place again with these eyes
or walk on its soil with these legs. That’s
ended. But 1 want to go back —after-
wards.”
She could barely hear his whisper, and
bent nearer. He could speak louder than
this, she thought, but it seemed as if he
were half ashamed of his great desire,
and wanted to keep it jealously between
the two of them.
“I don’t quite understand, Murdoch.
You mean after you’re better, don’t
you?”
“No. 1 mean after I’m dead.”
She could not start away from him,
but she bent her head slightly so that
he could not see her eyes.
“Wait, Joyce,” he went on in a stronger
voice. “I must explain. You must see
what I mean.”
He had to wait until his breathing
grew quieter.
“There’ll be an end soon,” he went on.
“We won’t quarrel about the time. Per-
haps I’ll last as long as you think I will.
But I’m beginning to feel cold and must
speak while there’s time. I’m asking you
to do a lot for me ; but I can’t ask any-
one else. 1 want to be cremated ; and
afterwards I want you to take the ashes
to Papua. Does that seem too big a
thing to ask?”
She kept her head bent.
“No.”
“But that isn’t all. I’m growing bolder.
You’re loyal, Joyce, and can be trusted.
I know that you won’t fail me.”
“I will do what you’ve asked me to do.”
“But will you go further than that?”
They looked at each other, and Mur-
doch drew a deep breath.
“Now I can tell you the rest. I’m
thinking of Weary Mountain. It’s a place
I think of when I’m tired. I used to go
up there when everything else failed me,
and look down across the hollows and
folds of the country. For me it’s the
centre of Papua; and it’s there I want
you to take my ashes. Butts will take
you in safety.
“And when you come out from the
forest on to the bare forehead of the
mountain 1 want you to climb the last
hundred feet alone, up into the blue sky
and the silence. Then you can scatter
the ashes.
“It may be that a strong wind will he
blowing, and all that is left of me will
be whirled away and lost in a moment.
Or the land may be calm, and then the
ashes will fall at your feet and rest for
a time on the mountain-top. But either
way will be the right way, for sooner or
later the particles of me will be blown
over the jungle or washed into a rain-
sodden soil or cast into the rivers or
hidden away on the shores of a lake.
There’ll be something of me in the breast
of my own country. And that’s what
I want, Joyce —a homecoming.”
It was now that Paul came forward
from his place near the hearth. He had
heard little at first, but as Murdoch grew
more in earnest his voice was stronger.
“Joyce,” said Paul, “1 don’t think you
realise what this is going to mean to
you.”


ffMp ;
-
■/ ¥
mm*M
m
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
At ..your request we. shall he
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
This land of countless attrac-.
lions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars—the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each'day',
is pleasure-filled. . . .i
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
Nozac
gh
This
Conklin
brings you everything
that’s new in pens.
Every important new detail of
design, construction and per-
formance developed by the
fountain pen industry is
embodied in the CONKLIN
NOZAC in tested forms that
provide the maximum of
writing performance and
dependability.
Priced at 30/- and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 25/-.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Sackless,
Visible Ink Supply.
The Word Gauge (exclusively
Conklin). 1
Speedy, Unfailing Mechanical
Filler.
Modish Colours of New
Design.
Improved Nib with Friction -
less Point.
Advanced Styling.
Sensible Prices.
From all Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
ss
ii
e®
i
9
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND
She lifted a hand without turning
towards him, but he could not help mak-
ing a protest.
“Don’t you see, Joyce, that he’s trying
to separate us?”
“How can that be?”
“My dear, it’s so obvious! You’ve
heard him say he dislikes me. And he
decided long ago, when he had little
chance of knowing me properly, that I
was no fit man for you. And now, on
this night of all nights, he asks you to do
something that will lake you away from
me for several months at least.”
“That’s true,” broke in Murdoch, “for
she must go this journey alone.”
“Meaning, of course, that you don’t
want me to go with her. 1 don’t believe
you would mind if she had any other
escort.”
“You’re wrong there. 1 want her to
be alone, I think she will understand in
the end.”
“Paul,” said Joyce, “do you think this
is necessary?”
“Oh, 1 know,” he burst out rather
violently. “Murdoch’s a sick man, and
we should be gentle with him and do
anything he asks—-even if it means the
end of our happiness.”
He looked at her appealingly.
“I know there’s a risk of your not
understanding me if I talk like this. But
I do think there’s a danger of senti-
mentality spoiling everything for you—
to say nothing of me. Murdoch’s trying
to separate us. Possibly it will be half
a year before you come to England
again.”
Joyce was looking at him as if he were
a stranger.
“You think it’s 100 long to wait?”
He faced her rather helplessly.
“If you can’t see” he began.
She shook her head.
“No,” she said. “I don’t think I can.”
He felt suddenly that there was nothing
more to be said. More than once, in his
fear and loneliness of this night, he had
come close to Joyce —only to be
separated from her as if by sudden
gulfs. And now he was adrift again,
uncertain of everything except an unwill-
ing perception of something in Joyce that
was in Murdoch also, and from which
he was shut away.
Joyce turned back to Murdoch, who
received her glance eagerly.
“Well?”
She bent down and touched his head,
and her eyes assured him of the safety
of her promise.
“I’ll do it, Murdoch.”
IV.
Murdoch was lying still when Paul re-
turned to the dining-room; but the leap
of flames disturbed, him as coal was put
on the fire.
“Are you there?” he asked ; and then,
as Paul waited by the hearth, he moved
his head and his voice grew stronger.
“What are you doing?”
“Attending to the fire. Is there any-
thing you want?”
“You might come a little nearer and
let me have a look at you.”
Paul walked to the lounge and looked
down at a face that had become faintly
blurred in outline. He doubted if those
eyes could see him.
“Where is she?”
“Gone. She thought she ought to slip
away while you were dozing.”
“I wasn’t dozing ; I was simply lying
here and staring at the ceiling. And so
she’s gone. That’s the last I’ll see of her,
1 suppose. Did she give you any mes-
sage for me?”
“None. She was sure you would be
able to talk to her when she came ‘back.”
He took this in silence.
“It’s just as well,” he said presently.
“There was nothing more that she and I
could say to each other. But I should
have been glad to see her again. She
does something to the room. Have you
noticed? It’s darker when she isn’t
here.”
He appeared to be talking to himself,
but he turned his eyes as Paul began to
walk away from the lounge.
“Wait a minute.”
“Is there anything I can do for you?”
Paul had to repeat his question, and
then Murdoch shook his head.
“I wish you would speak more plainly ;
you mumble in your throat. No, there's
nothing I want from you. You’re quite
free to slip out of this room and run
upstairs.”
“What do you mean?” asked Paul
quickly.
“Come a little nearer and I’ll tell you.
1 can’t see your face when you stand
over there. Why not sit down?”
Paul took the chair near the lounge.
“That’s better. Now I can see you.
What were we talking about?”
“You seemed to think I would be
anxious to go upstairs for some reason
or other.”
“For some reason or other! I can see
you're getting your nerve back now that
Joyce is out of the way. You’ll be say-
ing next that you didn't know there was
a dead woman in the house!”
Paul grew rigid.
. “Then you knew!”
“What do you think? You heard me
tell Joyce I saw you arrive, didn’t you?
And it was true. I was near you when
you had your little scare beside the pool;
and I was just outside the bedroom when
you put your hands on the woman and
choked her into silence.”
“I didn’t choke her! It was her heart
—the shock, the fear. She was excited,
I tell you, and her heart gave out. There
was no violence.”
“Enough to prejudice a jury against
you, anyway. And I heard your argu-
ment with her —quite a pretty passage
of words.”
Paul was beginning to see implications.
“Yet you said nothing of this to
Joyce!”
He saw Murdoch’s eyes return from
vagueness at the sound of her name.
“I said nothing. I’ve done quite a lot
for you to-night, Burnley. Your best
friend couldn’t have done more.”
“It was good of you” began Paul
confusedly.
“Not really. I wasn’t thinking of you
when I did it. And you don’t know
everything yet. I knew that woman
couldn't stay in the house while Joyce
was here ; and 1 didn’t see how you were
going to get rid of her. So I did your
dirty work for you, Burnley.”
“If you’re trying to torment me,” said
Paul harshly, “you’re wasting energy you
may need very shortly.”
“I’ve told you the truth. If you doubt
me you had better go upstairs and look
for the body.”
“What did you do with it?”
“I carried it downstairs and out of the
house. It wasn’t as bad a business for me
as it would have been for you: it’s not
the first time I’ve carried the dead in my
arms, and not the first time I’ve dumped
a corpse into deep water.”
Paul exclaimed sharply, and im-
mediately Murdoch’s eyes were on him.
“What else did you expect? It was the
only way with safety in it, for that pool
doesn’t give up its secrets. And now
she’s gone, and you needn’t worry any
more —although you will, of course.
You’ll take fear for a bedfellow and let
it drive you out of this country into
some steaming hole that doesn’t know
anything about extradition. 1 know your
type. Your imagination will drive you
pretty deep, and you’ll never get free.
But Joyce will be free. And that’s all
1 cared about.”
Paul was mopping his face.
“You’ve been rather wonderful about
this, Murdoch, although I can’t say I
understand everything”
“You’re not as quick as Joyce. She
sat here, not an hour ago, and told me
I hadn’t given her all the truth. She
couldn’t believe that if I truly loved her
1 could want to do her harm. And she
was right. I won’t say what my motives
were in the beginning, because I don’t
know. I hung about here in the blind
hope of seeing her. But when I saw
what happened between you and that
other woman I knew there was some-
thing for me to do. Somehow, you had
to be kept apart from Joyce. You can
understand why, can’t you?”
“Then,” said Paul, choosing not to hear
this last question, “you persuaded Joyce
to go on your fantastic errand to Papua
simply because you had failed in your
attempt to keep us apart?”
“That’s it. And this time I’m not
going to fail. It’s not in you to stay
faithful to Joyce for six months,
especially with a murder scare on your
mind. You'll cut and run.”
“And what about Joyce? Do you
think she can forget so easily?”
“No. She won’t forget. But you don't
know how to wait, and you don’t really
love her.’’
“You seem very certain, Murdoch.
And I wonder if you’re really right in
keeping these strong thoughts about me.
How can you be sure that I’m such a
rotter and so completely unfit for Joyce?”
Murdoch turned away to hide a tired-
ness so sudden and sweeping that it
seemed to drag at every muscle in his
face.
“You must bend a little nearer. I’ve
talked too much and it’s killing me. I’ve
used up twenty-four hours of life in the
last hundred minutes or so to say the few
things 1 wanted to say. I don't regret
it, even though it means I shan’t see
Joyce again. Where are you?”
He turned his head blindly.
“Bend a little nearer and keep still. 1
want to tell you that I don’t think you’re
a rotter. It’s just that you’re weak. There-
fore you don’t belong to Joyce. You
know it yourself, don’t you? And there’s
nothing to stop you from giving her a
thought sometimes. You’ll find it a help
if you can remember her eyes and some
of the things she put into that letter to
you.”
He sank into a silence so long that
Paul thought he had nothing more to
say. But he opened his eyes again.
“You’ll feel bad about this, Burnley ;
and I don’t blame you. But I’ve a feel-
ing that you might get more out of it
than you can see at present. Getting
hold of Joyce would not mean the whole
of life to you, and some day you might
find yourself all the better for losing her.
Love sometimes does most for us when
it doesn’t mean possession. That’s how
it has been with me.”
He closed his eyes and did not speak
until some minutes later he asked Paul
to touch his legs.
“Harder,” he said. “I can’t feel your
hand.”
“Can you feel it now?”
“No. They’ve gone cold.”
His voice trailed away into a silence
that stayed unbroken. Paul watched him
sinking into coma. The long talking and
the mental excitement had used all that
was left of his strength. Soon that face
would lose its indistinctness and rise into
calmness. Already, as Paul stood there,
he thought he could see a sharpening
outline and a glimpse of something new
and important: something real and en-
during that would remain in these
features when the warmth was gone.
And in this new clearness, spreading
slowly as the coma deepened, there was
that which reminded Paul of words that
Joyce had spoken, and he knew that she
had been able to see this quality in Mur-
doch while the flesh still intervened: a
quality of which she had spoken, hesi-
tatingly, as the outline of something big.
[The End.]


■K&Sf
Sm
k
m
mm
m
mmmm
V-8 Trucks Create
Working Record
FORD V-8 Trucks are creating new working records in every
kind of haulage or transportation service. In a letter, typical
of many, a quarry master writes: "After experience with every
means of transport, I consider Ford V-8 Trucks the best we have
ever used. They carry 5 yards of stone and each shifts 15 yards
per day more than our previous best. Ford V-8 Trucks will also
save time and money for you. Ask your nearest Ford dealer to
arrange an "on-the-job" test. Features include: V-8 cylinder Truck-
type engine; Full floating rear axle; Straddle mounted driving
pinion; Heavy-duty clutch and Transmission; Safety Glass wind-
screen. A special Finance plan provides easy and convenient terms.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD Vfl TRUCKS
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria) F71.27.C
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W. 8.: A bit too close to the knuckle....
J.C.R.: The horse may have been sound in
wind and limb, but the verse is wheezy and
limping... .D.G.W.: Not a bad skit, but our
interest in Geneva grows fainter and fainter.
. ...R.W.: You rhyme recklessly—“sexes-
plexus,” “spanner-ipecacuanha”—and that is
far from your only disqualification... .L.A.S.:
Smoke-oh jingle needs to be more concise and
neatly packed F.G.: Has some human in-
terest, but fails to hit the mark as Verse
L.T.H.: No, it’s not verse; just prose with a
very thin varnish of rhyme... .A.E.A.: Not
up to the mark. And contributors cannot ex-
pect “the favor of a reply” anywhere but here.
. ...C.M.M.: You have a lively fancy and
some aptitude for word-juggling, but your
craftsmanship needs improvement. Keep at it.
. ...L.R.8.: The sort of verse that some Eng-
lish critic pilloried in the phrase “the butter-
woman's rank to market”... .A.M.C.: —
A fine big- girl was Mary Ami,
But stoutness did not suit,
So she turned vege-tarian
And lived on nuts and fruit.
At that point we lost interest in the damsel....
D.A.M.: Sorry we can’t find a corner for
Mac, but he should go great in a whisky ad.
... .G.H.M.: Quite good of its kind, but neces-
sarily belated. Incidentally, Everest hasn't been
“lorded” yet... .D.M.G.: R.I.P R.A.: But
did you ever hear of a mixed-breed being called
a “quadroon” or an “octoroon” in this
country? ... .E.R.1.: The idea is excellent; the
defect is in the handling. Try again, after
getting your verse-pick sharpened... .M.H.
(“aged 15”): Well, it would please Mr.
Stevens:
The discovery of gold explains the wealthy
condition of our finances, which will continue
if the present mode of wise governing does
as much for us in the future as it has done in
the past.
.... J.R.; Not punting on Bert’s tip... .C.C.E.:
Flows so pleasantly it lulled all hands to sleep.
S.C.: Your metre changes like a girl’s
complexion... .E.C.L.: You don't quite bring
it off: those surprise-ending verses are ticklish
customers... .G.W.-S.: You might place it
somewhere some Mother’s Day....C.C.; Your
quill seems a bit heavy for that sort of trifling.
.... A.W.G." It must have gone astray some-
where. All that reached us were the final two
words—-“minced ham” A.L.P.: Not enough
point in it.,..H.G.; Indistinguishable-twins
theme needs a new angle to get it through
J.W.H.: Milk-bar sketch has been done before.
F.M.: Too short for story section and
too long for Smoke-oh ; theme, too, is dubi-
ous J.M.: Scottish setting is just a hemi-
sphere too far away R.R.S.; Thesis on
drinking songs had our Temperance Editor
rushing for the bar S.M.: Trina’s attitude
isn’t convincing C.C.: Period piece well
enough done, but the plot’s thin A.M.M.:
Good character-study till the dragging in of
the lottery win. Worth redoing N.8.D.:
Not enough in it W.S.: “The best joke of
all” was flat... .A.J.A.: Dialogue good, and
you worked the snap ending in well, but plot
didn’t quite make it; keep trying G.E.M.:
“The Clock” ticked off... .H.D.: Not keen on
dreams, but it was pretty well done... .F.D.:
A creaky p10t... .F.A.W.: Horror piled on too
thickly... .T.M.: A heavy jolt from blue pencil
sent “The Extra Round” reeling into w.p.b.
. ...J.8.: “Dynamite” not strong enough to
blow our cashbox open... .A.R.E.: Reveals
good insight into human nature, but it doesn’t
quite get there... .L.V.R.: Excellent exposi-
tion of how a murder yarn should not be
written K.S.: Cut down, it might do for a
par F.L.A.: Politicians beat you to that
cheap-travel idea....8.N.: That isn’t a yarn,
it’s a sermon—worse, a long sermon F.T.:
You've something to say, but there’s a plum
in your literary mouth A.C.; Well done,
but not our kind. Other papers might rush
it.... J .R.: Can’t think of anyone that might
use it E.E.: Feeling in it, anyway. Verse
is terribly rocky... .L.E.: Don't fancy either.
. ...T.G.: "The Net” nearly caught the ghost.
. ...G.R.: In other words, “Defeat's” idea is
a regular visitor A.T.8.: “A sticker for
Protection” always; but the Whiskard-Gullctt
tariff isn’t Protection... .E.S.H.; We thought
so A.C.S.: Melodrama... .R.C.: And a
little pink pill was responsible! H.R.R.:
Well-handled, but there’s nothing in it N. 8.:
It bumps along, and you don’t make a story
out of it....8.W.: Too thin... .P.F.: N 0....
E. : Came close; try us with some-
thing stronger RJ.M.; Still knocking
T.P.McL.: We believe you and sympathise, but
it’s weak... .L.D.McK.; Our private sleuth
solved your “Murder Most Perfect” while he
was shaving A.C.; That should show you
the danger of shipboard romances... .W.D.:
Half-way through it was 40 to 1 on Thunder
making the jump D.McM.; It wasn’t up,
and it’s been destroyed... .C.K.: Why not
open up a less dreary patch?... .K.L.-S.:
Nearly, but the ghost ’plane beat it
R.G.W.; N0....H.F.: Just failed to make the
grade.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.8.: You left it half-finished... .R.D.:
Harsh, heavy linework and a gag that’s been
going the rounds J.W.: Washwork is too
evenly grey; make contrast between tones
sharper E.S.: Faint signs of improvement.
.... P.H.: Before bombarding editors learn to
draw L.L.S.; Car about to fall over cliff
might be a new model, but remarks of driver
are mouldy R.C.: Neat little sketch, but
gag is very tame C.F.; Nothing like a sheep
• —and you send it from sheep country!....
F. : Well, you’re earnest, though uninspired.
, ...N.G.: Prune jests down to a couple of
lines and put some life into sketches... .A.N.:
More like a collection of stalagmites than a
group in a ballroom G.H.: Tattooed pug
knocked through the ropes S.T.: Would
look better without the fancy trimmings
H.J.D.; Can see you turning out profitless
work for a long time to come... *T.M.:It
might win a colored certificate from the editor
of a kids’ column G.S.: Caricatures are
very unlike subjects... .D.J.: Gag passable;
drawing returned for repairs... .M.A.: Four
vague figures stumbling about in a fog, plus
stale chestnut... .8.H.W.: Full of faults....
F. 8.: Cannot judge from the “rough-out”
sent; let us see finished work... .W.M.: Shows
promise; attendance at a life class would be
helpful.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
In Japan all Defence Ministry chiefs
must now be officers from the active list.
In Australia neither the Minister of
Defence nor the permanent head of the
department has seen anything of war at
first hand.
'•* *l* V 's*
How hard the depression and New
Deal taxation have hit the Americans is
revealed in the report that U.S.A. repre-
sentation at the Olympic Games will be
a pale shadow of former grandeur. Every
four years the arrival of the American
entry in the foreign city preparing for
the Games was an event. Americans
nominated for everything, and accom-
panying the athletes were an army of
trainers, rubbers, sports professors, news-
papermen and patrons, and squadrons of
private yachts. Now there will be fewer
Americans at Berlin than Japanese.
* * * *
“El V.” on a diplomatist:
George Chicherin was among the queerest
of the leading Bolshcviki. He was a medium-
sized, bird-like man, with a Hall Caine-ish fore-
head and beard and a pair of wide, bright
Oriental eyes. His family had been associated
with diplomacy in Russia for many years. He
himself was trained for the foreign service,
but the Social Democrats pinched him from
tradition, and the Communists in turn pinched
him from Social Democracy. Russia's first
Foreign Minister under the new regime, he
managed to retain diplomatic friendships, which
brought him under a good deal of suspicion
but made him a useful international arbitrator.
“Astro”: Among the thousand or so
litlle planets added to our knowledge of
the solar system of late years the most
interesting is Dr. Delporte’s discovery—
a minute visitor he has named Anteros.
This little chap's orbit will bring him in
one ol his trips (about seven years hence)
within 25,000,000 miles of the earth. As
he is only about half a mile in diameter
it was a feat, even for the lOOin. tele-
scope at Mt. Wilson, to get his photo,
at 54-million-miles range, as was done
recently—the giant was taken off its usual
work of photographing faint, far-off uni-
verses to follow up this little wandering
rock, whose calculated orbit gives a
period of about two and a half years. It
might be safe to try Douglas credit on
the Lilliputians of Anteros if R. E.
Cleafor establishes rocket communica-
tion with the planets. In his book just
published (a quite serious book in the
main), he reckons that one could get well
over the gravitational boundary between
the earth and Venus with a supply of oxy-
hydrogen to start with—with containers,
a mere 20,971,520 tons; estimated cost,
a trifle of £700,000,000. Presumably
this allows for the kick-off on the return
trip. But as Anteros can weigh only
about as much as the rocket and its load
of return fuel, the back kick would be
fatal to both parties.
❖
“Cromwell’s Ghost” on a clerical
family;
The appointment of W. H. Johnson, Dean
of Newcastle (N.S.W.), to the Bishopric
of Ballarat (Vic.) suggests that the Clerics’
Union might want to do something to curb
the administrative progress of the holders
of the name and its cognate Johnstons
and Johnstones. The Dean of Canterbury —
who believes in Douglas Credit and thinks that
bits of Australia should be handed to the Japs
—is a Johnson. Another holds a rural deanery
in Manchester. One is Dean of Qu’appelle,
Canada, having been promoted from the
Deanery of Moose Jaw. There have been,
within the past three or four years, a couple
of Johnson archdeacons in Grenada and Bar-
bados (West Indies), plus an archdeacon in
Rangoon. The Johnstons hold the arch-
diaconate of Glendalough, Ireland, and of
Egypt, the professorship of homiletics at
Toronto University. And those of the clan
who spell their names with ah “e” on the
end have their clutches on the moderatorship
of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland and an
Anglican archdiaconate of St. Andrew’s, Syd-
ney. But, after all, a Johnson tradition might
be excused in the Commonwealth. It was a
Johnson who was first Australian parson, who
held the first Australian church service in
Macquarie-place, Sydney (Feb. 3, 1788), and
opened the first Australian church at the corner
of Hunter and Castlereagh streets.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Some people never
know when to stop. To the congested
melee of international sport which has
bred up a race of professionals and near-
professionals, it is now proposed to add
an exchange of baseball visits between
English and Australian teams. The game
has long been played in England—in the
’eighties baseball and lacrosse were regu-
larly played in some parts of Lancashire
—but has never caught on. The London
dog-racing interests which established a
couple of Rugby League clubs in Eng-
land have been responsible for the intro-
duction there of professional baseball,
but there are no signs of the permanent
establishment of either game.


Contain
genuine
medicinal
qualities
HUDSON'S
"EUMENTHOI” ><
JUJUBES
Recommended
by Doctors
for almost
50 years
6d. & 1/6 tin
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
' Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Eso. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win, A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G, ’ ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general banking-business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
mist be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist and telephone
operator, senior, requires position. —2234.
Journalist, 25 years’ exp. in three continents,
would invest up to £lOOO, with services, in
established publication or progressive adver-
tising service agency, Sydney or Melbourne. —
2214.
Journalist (ex-editor Australia and Far East,
including dailies) offers services as locum tenens
any senior position during holidays or sickness,
or permanently, any distance, any period.
Practical knowledge of printing, exp. manage-
ment and accounts. —2205.
Station manager, young, married, 15 years’
exp. cattle, sheep and improvements, wants
position in Q’land. —2228.
Maorilander wishes to correspond with
philatelists living in Pacific Islands. —2261.
Gentleman, Sydney, would like hiking com-
panion.—2249.
Whereabouts of widow of Peter Kemp, one-
time champion sculler of the world. —2238.
To get in touch with Australians who served
in the Boxer Rebellion. —2257.
To buy Australian Celebrities and The Billy
Book, by David Low. —2266.
To buy in good condition a collection of
foreign stamps, up to 10,000; also silver jubilee
stamps.—2223.
To buy The Bulletin July to December,
1902; 30s. if in good condition. —2169.
Man of 70, active, restricted by knee injury
to a stroll of a quarter-mile, wants suggestions
for exercise. Weight-lifting barred. —2196.
Words of verse ending:
But they can’t come up here, because the cows
Ain’t got no flamin’ boats.
—2253.
Information Sought.
In auction bridge, A deals and bids a no-
trump. B passes. C ( A’s partner ) passes. D
bids two hearts. A has a singleton heart and
doubles, expecting C to take him out. A is
exceptionally strong in the other three suits. Is
this a sound double 7 —2167.
Sound enough in principle, but much would
depend on the conventions employed by A
and C. According to an authority (L. H.
Dawson) “a double of two of a suit is in-
formatory unless the doubler or doubler’s part-
ner has previously bid.” In the case you cite
C might be justified, especially in view of A’s
original no-trump bid, in thinking a business
double was intended.
* * * *
Taxation per head of population in 1934
and 1935 for the Commonwealth and States,
each of the six Stales, and Great Britain 7
2105.
1934. 1935.
£ s. d £ s. d.
Great Britain 14 17 3 Not yet to hand
New South Wales 5 8 8 5 6 0
Queensland 6 3 0 6 16 3
South Australia 5 0 5 5 11 11
Tasmania 4 18 11 5 7 1
Victoria 4 12 9 4 17 11
Western Australia 4 3 4 5 9 11
Commonwealth and
States 13 13 1 14 4 0
■l' ❖ H*
Particulars regarding Harold Gatly’s employ-
ment by the U.S. Government 7 —2093.
He was attached for some years to the U.S.A.
Army Air Corps as technical adviser and navi-
gation expert. When he visited Australia for
a short period during last year he was under-
stood to be still acting in an advisory capa-
city for the U.S.A. Government, also for the
Pan-America Airways.
(1) What was the total amount left by
Charles Kingsford Smith 7 (2) Who were the
beneficiaries ? —2210.
(1) His estate was sworn for probate at
£ 12,875. (2) The widow was sole beneficiary.
;{c ;{j 'i*
(1) Did T. Mcllwraith propose running a
north-south railway in Queensland, connecting
the lines running east-west 7 (2) Did Britain
reject New Guinea after the Premier of Queens-
land ordered the annexation 7 —2168.
(1) In 1883 he attempted to force assent to
a railway on the land-grant principle from
Charleville to the Gulf of Carpentaria, but was
defeated and was ousted from office by Griffith.
(2) Mcllwraith ordered the annexation owing to
rumors of German designs on New Guinea.
The British Government ignored these rumors
and disavowed the annexation, but in the face
of vigorous protests from Australia the Colonial
Office agreed to establish a “coastal protecto-
rate” if Australia would contribute £15,000
towards its upkeep. Before assent reached
London Bismarck had notified the British Gov-
ernment of his intention of annexing the north-
ern side of New Guinea.
Prospect of rural worker obtaining position
in the Northern Territory 7 Is Government
relief made available to unemployed persons in
the Territory 7 Any recent literature on the
place 7 —1949.
There is still a considerable amount of un-
employment in the Territory and an ample
supply of labor for any unskilled work that
might be offering in the mining or pastoral in-
dustry. It is inadvisable for any person to
proceed to the Territory without first having
a definite offer of employment or sufficient
means to enable him to return to the south in
the event of failure to secure an engagement.
Government relief is not available to any per-
son with less than three years’ residence in the
Territory. No recent literature of a general
nature relating to the Northern Territory has
been issued. A copy of the latest annual report
on the administration of the Northern Terri-
tory is obtainable from the Dept, of the
Interior, Canberra.
What is the difference between Greenwich
and Eastern Standard time 7 During the cen-
tenary air race ’planes were posted as having
reached such and such a place at such and such
a time. Would that he the time at the par-
ticular destination the ’plane had reached or
would it be the time at the place where news
was received 7 Is E.S.T. calculated from
Greenwich 7 —1990.
By the system of arriving at a standard time,
computed, for convenience’ sake, from the
Observatory at Greenwich, England, the earth
has been divided into a series of 24 zones,
15deg. in width, marked by 24 standard meri-
dians. In each zone thus created, and com-
mencing from Greenwich, the time differs by
one hour from that of the previous zone, in
some countries additional half-hour zones
having also been created. This time differs
in certain portions of the zone from the true
solar time, or local time, computed from the
solar noon, which occurs when the sun is at
the meridian. Australia is divided into four
zones —Western, Central, Adelaide and East-
ern ; Eastern Standard time is therefore that
prevailing in the easterly portion of the con-
tinent, as computed from Greenwich. Thus
a "plane arriving in any portion of that zone
would be posted as arriving at a certain hour,
Eastern Standard time, and provided the
station receiving the news was also in the zone
the time would be exactly the same, Adelaide,
Central and Western time differing graduatively
by one hour.
Combinations of Australian coins required to
make 1 oz., 3 oz. and 4oz- ? —2158.
The weight of a new halfpenny is 87.5 gr.,
penny 145.8 gr., threepence 21.8 gr., sixpence
43.6 gr. and shilling 87.2 gr. There are 4374 gr.
to an ounce; therefore three pennies, five shil-
lings, ten sixpences or 20 threepences weigh
approximately loz. For 20z., 3oz. and 4oz.
multiply these values by the required numbers.
Is the “finger cherry" of North Q. poison-
ous, or does it cause blindness 7 What is its
appearance and botanical name 7 —2029.
The plant known as the “finger cherry,” also
as the “Cooktown loquat,” is Rhodomyrtus
macrocarpa. The fruit is from an inch to an
inch and a quarter in length, and resembles a
loquat in shape, excepting that it is slightly
more elongated, and when ripe bright red. The
leaves are from Sin. to lOin. in length, and
from 3in. to' 4in. broad. Under certain condi-
tions the fruit is poisonous, and has caused
death and in other cases blindness, the poison
affecting the optic nerve. Some years ago the
Department of Public Instruction prepared and
published an illustration showing foliage and
fruit in color, copies of which were supplied
to State schools in districts where the plant is
found.
What steps must be taken to enter a youth
in the mercantile service, with the object of
eventually obtaining a master’s ticket 7 —2076.
It is advisable to have him apprenticed for
four years to a shipping co., a premium being
required. The only co. in Australia which
caters for apprentices of this nature is the Aus-
tralasian United Steam Navigation Co. Details
can be obtained on application to the manag-
ing agents, Macdonald, Hamilton and Co., 247
George-street.
* * * *
(1) What nation was the first to discover the
value of beche-de-mer, and how far back 7
(2) Date of commencement of the industry in
Australia 7 —2112.
(1) It has from time immemorial been a
valued Chinese delicacy. (2) Matthew Flinders
found Malays fishing and curing trepang in
1802. There is reason to believe that the
north of Australia had been so visited by
Malays for centuries.
* * *
(1) What reductions are imposed on N. S.
Wales public service salaries by the Salaries
Reduction Act as it stands at present 7 (2)
By how much have salaries as set out in the
award been reduced by reductions in the basic
wage 7 (3) In computing the reduction under
the Reduction Act what is the basis, the salary
as set out in the award or that salary less the
basic wage reduction 7 —2063.
(1) The reductions imposed by the Public
Service Salaries Act, 1931-35, are: 15 p.c. on
that part of the salary which does not exceed
£200; 174 p.c. on that part of the salary
which exceeds £2OO but does not exceed £4OO
p.a.; 20 p.c. on that part of the salary exceed-
ing £4OO but not exceeding £6OO p.a.; 224 p.c.
on that part of the salary exceeding £6OO but
not exceeding £BOO p.a.; 25 p.c. on that part of
the salary exceeding £BOO but not exceeding
£lOOO p.a.; 274 p.c. on that part of the
salary exceeding £lOOO but not exceeding £l5OO
p.a.; 324 p.c. on that part of the salary which
exceeds £l5OO p.a. The salary of a married
officer receiving less than £3OO p.a. is not to
be reduced under the foregoing scale, while the
salary of a married officer receiving anything
exceeding £3OO p.a. is not to be reduced below
£3OO by the operation of the scale. The
scale is not to operate in any case to reduce
the salary of an adult below the declared
living wage. Two-fifths of the amount of the
reduction is now returned to the officer, being
rebates granted by amending Acts. (2) The
living wage reduction since July 1, 1927 (the
date from which most Crown awards took
effect), amounts to £4l 14s. 3d. p.a. in the
case of adult males and £22 3s. 3d. p.a. in the
case of adult females. With respect to juniors
the appropriate reduction has been applied.
(3) When a living wage is declared awards are
varied by the Industrial Registrar to give effect
to any living wage variation, .and it is the
salary as expressed in the varied awards that
is subject to the provisions of the Public
Service Salaries Act.
Is it possible for a salesman, with Slate
school education, aged 32, to become a bar-
rister or solicitor in Queensland, and, if so,
what would be the necessary procedure 3—2026.
It would be possible, but at his age difficult,
and the prospect very doubtful. He would
have to pass a preliminary examination in-
cluding among a number of other subjects
Latin, mathematics and a modern language,
also become articled for five years, and during
that period have to pass intermediate, and final
examinations embracing a comprehensive field
of law and equity. He would probably be
close on 40 before he could launch out as an
adequately equipped barrister and solicitor. The
fees would approximate 50 guineas, and main-
tenance during the years of articleship would
have to be taken into account, as articled clerks
are not highly paid.
❖ * * *
What are the qualifications for entrance
into the police force in N. S. Wales; also in
England 7 —2221.
In N.S.W. the physical qualifications include
a minimum chest measurement of and
a height of sft. lOin. (sft. 9in. in some cir-
cumstances), as well as a weight in propor-
tion to size and a general physical fitness other-
wise. In addition there is an education test,
corresponding to the intermediate certificate
standard, and the applicant must be accept-
able to the department as regards moral char-
acter, as well as being resident in the State for
12 months previous. In England a height of
sft. lOin. and a chest measurement of 36in.
are necessary, with a proportionate weight,
while the educational test and qualifications for
physical fitness are slightly below those for
N.S.W.
* * * *
Brief particulars regarding Judge Jeffreys ?
Of what illness did he die 7 —2137.
George Jeffreys was born at Acton in Den-
bighshire, 1648. He became a favorite of
James 11., who raised him to the peerage soon
after his accession. Shortly after that Jeffreys’s
behavior at the “Bloody Assize” of 1685, fol-
lowing the Monmouth rising, made his name a
byword. On James’s downfall he attempted to
escape overseas, but was intercepted at Wap-
ping, disguised as a sailor, and sent to the
Tower in order to prevent his being torn to
pieces by the crowd. There he died four
months later, April 18, 1689, of gallstones,
complicated by alcoholism.
£ * * *
Particulars of Cleopatra’s Needle 7 —2086.
It is a rose-red Syene granite obelisk, standing
684 ft. high and weighing about 186 tons. It
was originally set up by Thotmes or Tethmosis
111. at Heliopolis about 1500 b.c., but was after-
wards removed by Caesar Augustus to adorn
the Cassareum at Alexandria. It was presented
to England by Mehemet Ali in 1819, and even-
tually brought to London in 1878, when it was
erected on the Thames Embankment. A simi-
lar obelisk was presented by the Khedive to
the U.S.A. in 1881, and stands in Central Park,
New York.
What portions of Ireland are outside the Free
State 7 Population 7 —2134.
The territory of Northern Ireland consists of
the six counties of Antrim, Armagh, Down,
Fermanagh, Londonderry and Tyrone, the city
of Belfast being the capital and Londonderry
the other chief town. Of the total area of
'3,351,444 acres, roughly a third is devoted to
agriculture, the principal industries being ship-
building and linen manufacture. The territory
is included in the Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, and the population is
1,256,561.
What is the origin of the reference to the
“ghost walking” on pay day 7 —2202.
It is a theatrical term, believed to have
originated with the practice of a certain actor,
whose specialty was the playing of the ghost
in “Hamlet,” in refusing to go on until the
rather shaky treasury had actually paid him
his salary. By his bold stand other members
of the cast were also assured of their salaries,
it being the practice for them to wait in the
vicinity until after the interview, when the
cheerful tidings was conveyed to them by the
words “the ghost will walk to-night.”
« * *
(1) Recipe for a glue suitable for leather 7
(2) Where can it be bought ready-made 7 (3)
Recipe for a marine glue 7 —2159.
(1) Soak soz. gelatine in water till fully
swollen, and melt in pan stood in hot water.
Stir in -J-oz. glycerine, loz. turpentine, joz. oil
varnish. Thin with water as needed and apply
hot. Keep under hard pressure after glue has
been applied. (2) From John Brush, 371
George-street, Sydney. (3) Dissolve 1 part
india-rubber in 12 parts coal-tar naphtha; add
20 parts shellac, and heat the whole, stirring
well until of proper consistency. Apply hot.
This glue remains adhesive under water. Use
care in heating, as naphtha is very inflammable
(steam heat is the best), and a closed pan to
prevent evaporation.
* * *
Were the verses beginning “Is thy name
Mary” written by Charles Kingsley? —l49l.
The verses commencing:
Is thy name Mary, maiden fair ?
Such should, methinks, its music be,
The sweetest name that mortals bear
Were best befitting thee,
are by Oliver Wendell Holmes, under the name
“LTnconnue” (the Stranger), and appear in
his collected poetical works.
Brief Answers.
1.D.: The individual being measured by Dr.
Price may or may not be a full-blood, for Dr.
Price studies the dentition of both full-bloods
and castes. Some of the natives at La Perouse
are full-blood. Ascertain the name of the sub-
ject and apply to the Aborigines’ Protection
Board for further particulars... .E.C.F.: The
information, which is too long to print here,
is contained in the Calendar of the University
of Sydney, which may be seen at the Uni-
versity or the N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney,
or may be obtained from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, 3s D.M.P.: Both father and
daughter should furnish income-tax returns
showing separate income. Under the Acts, in-
come means “gross” income and includes the
value of all benefits derived by the taxpayer
from all sources. Each return should show
the exact amount of income, and allowable
deductions should be claimed. As apparently
this is not, on the face of it, a partnership, no
partnership return need be made. Study closely
the direction sheet accompanying the income-
tax forms (obtainable at any post office) and
note specially the provision with regard to
the amount assessable to you on account of
income arising “under a disposition made in
favor of a minor and unmarried child”....
E.J.M.D.: See “Industrial and Engineering
Chemistry,” Vol. 18, No. 1....L.A.C.; Get
in touch with the S.A. Govt. Geologist,
Adelaide... .A.L.C.: Write Gordon and Gotch,
Barrack and Clarence streets, Sydney....
H.D.K.; Yes; obtainable from Ingersoll-Rand
(Aust.), Ltd., 76 Clarence-street, Sydney. Cost
varies from £lO5 to £450, according to size
and capacity... .J. 8.; (1) No. Trumper was only
a mediocre bowler. His figures were 2 for 140
in Test cricket (the wickets, for 35 runs, being
taken at Edgbaston, Birmingham, in 1902) and
27 wickets for 804 runs in Sheffield Shield
matches. (2) In Tests Trumble took 141
wickets for 2945 runs, and 159 wickets for
3287 runs in Sheffield Shield D.G.C.: The
N.S.W. Forestry Commission has a nursery at
Gosford where certain trees are obtainable by
public institutions at nominal cost. Can’t
say if private individuals would be dealt with.
... .M.S.H.: The specimen has been deter-
mined as Lycopodium densum, one of the club
mosses, often called mountain moss in N.S.W.
The spores of club mosses are used to form
Lycopodium powder, which is used medicinally
for dusting over pills, for urinary disorders,
and as a sedative. It is also used in the
manufacture of fireworks G.H.F.: (1) You
cannot experiment in tobacco growing without
a permit. This is obtainable from the Controller
of Customs, Customs House, Sydney. (2)
Tobacco seed can be sold without a license.
(3) Seed can be bought from the manager,
Experiment Farm, Bathurst, N.S.W
J.W.S.: The specimen is a brass game counter
—a rough imitation of a half guinea. Mil-
lions of these in guinea and half-guinea size
and type were and are struck for this purpose.
The reverse inscription is largely meaningless,
the makers seldom troubling to follow correctly
the abbreviated inscription on reverse of the
guinea and half. The letters 8.1.R.M. may,
despite the dots between, be taken to refer to
Birmingham, where these counters originated.
The date (1790) does not agree with George
11. ;(1727-1760)... .C.C.: The Pelman course
is sound and is highly recommended, but it
demands serious effort from the student. The
institute is ready to discuss the individual’s cir-
cumstances fully with him before enrolment.
Suggest you state your case to the directors
A.C.W.: Sir Philip Game is now Commis-
sioner of Metropolitan Police, London;
address, New Scotland Yard, London, S.W.I.
. ...H.A.: Sir Walter Davidson died in office
on September 16, 1923 J.H.S.: (1) Should
think the intention of the Act would be that
such an association may go into the open
market and buy in shares at the ruling price,
whether face value or under. (2) Yes; should
think so. The association is not under com-
pulsion to buy any shares or class of shares.
. ...C.D.H.: Yes; the agent being the inter-
mediary through whom the landowner and the
cattle-owner were brought together and an agree-
ment come to is entitled to his commission
G.T.: Presume you refer to Henry Lawson, by
His Mates; obtainable leading booksellers,
4s. 6d 5.W.8.; The first step to take is to
write to the executors giving them full particu-
lars of your claim and asking for an explanation
of its non-inclusion. It is very improbable that
they have committed any act that would render
them liable to a prosecution. If you are not
satisfied with the explanation it will be a matter
for serious consideration whether it is worth
while to embark on probably costly litigation
with the risk of failure. There is a Public
Trustee in England (Kingsway, W.C., London),
but it is doubtful if he would or could help
you in such a matter M.A.C.: You cannot
sue the council, as under the Statute of Limita-
tions the six months within which you could
have made a claim has elapsed.... J.G.: (1)
No stamp duty is payable on the transfer of
the bonds. (2) The stamp duty on the trans-
fer of the land and house would depend
on their value... .C.R.C.: Before you could
be free you would have to obtain a certificate
of discharge from the Bankruptcy Court.
There is no other way. There are no fixed
costs; the Court determines them J.E.M.:
(1) Yes, if you can satisfy the Registrar that
the information is not required for any
nefarious purpose. (2) There are no such
specialists, but a solicitor acting on your in-
structions would no doubt obtain what you
desire.. . .J.V.C.: Not aware of any limitation
of the time within which the judgment may
be enforced, though after such a lapse applica-
tion to the Court may be necessary. Write to
the Registrar of the County Court where
judgment was given asking for more detailed
information P. 8.: Send the play to Miss
Dons Fitton, the Independent Theatre, 112
King-street, Sydney C.T.C.: Urdu is a
Hindustani language as spoken and written by
Mussulmans, as distinct from Hindi, spoken
and written by Hindus G.W.: Hobart and
suburbs have a population of 60,663 ; Launces-
ton and suburbs, 32,833 H.S.D.: Tullibi-
geal is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning
“Yarran wood spears” K.L.: Means Test
Man, by Walter Brierley; Miner, by F. C.
Boden; and Love on the Dole, by Walter
Greenwood (Many others mailed.)


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
the matter of this awful mess he has got
us into.
One of the Assistant Ministers, Mr.
Hunter, said at Brisbane on June 2:
“The tariff changes were the result of
many weeks’ work and anxious thought,
and in no instance was the United
Kingdom consulted.” Mr. Thorby, an-
other Assistant Minister, said at Narra-
bri (N.S.W.) on June 6: “The Govern-
ment does not experiment with such
legislation. The decision was arrived
at after the closest co-operation with the
Parliaments of Great Britain and the
Dominions.”
Mr. Hunter again, on June 11; “It is
true that Japan has become an ever-
increasing buyer of our wool, but its
buying has not increased the world’s
consumption of wool. What Japan has
bought has taken the place of Britain’s
former buying ; that is, there has simpl,v
The Two Voices
On July 1 Defence Minister Parkhill,
endeavoring to reply to Rear-Admiral
Feakes’s article in B. 24/6/’36, said in
Melbourne;
The mainstay of Australia’s defence at
the present stage of its development is the
British Fleet.
On July 3 the same authority, in reply
to a deputation of shipbuilding union-
ists in Sydney, said:
In war, Australia could not rely to any
extent upon anybody but itself.
Can anyone give us an inkling what it
really is that the gentleman is trying to
say? No prize is offered for the best
solution. —U.A.P. Once (N.S.W.).
“Encouraging” Volunteers
The latest method of “encouraging
military volunteers is to fine them for
being absent from parade —ss. for the
first offence, 10s. for the second. They
are already liable to pay a £3 guarantee
for the first year’s service, £2 for the
second and £1 for the third. And some
of the new uniforms are so expensive that
the men cannot stand the cost of them at
all—Gosford (N.S.W.) had to find £lBO
the other day to lend glory to its Benaiahs
and Joshuas. —E. V. (N.S.W.).
Boycott and Trade War
Congratulations on your article “The
Tragic Trade War” (B. 1/7/’36). Except,
of course, for those papers devoted en-
tirely to grazing interests, The Bul-
letin, I think, is the only paper to stand
by the primary producer in this matter.
Although the people in this district are
Bulletin readers, no one to my know-
ledge was with you when you opposed
“sanctions.” We have all been forced
to acknowledge that you were right.
I trust you will continue to give Aus-
tralia the service you have rendered to
it in the 17 years during which I have
been a Bulletin reader. —G. F. Dearden
(Maranui, Bungunya, Q.).
The Inevitable Fizzle
“Sanctions” are dead, but the evil they
have done lives after them. They have
blighted the young life of the League of
Nations and blotted the dawn of a new
hope from the world’s horizon, leaving
it blackened by a cloud of war heavier
than any that has overshadowed it since
the signing of the Versailles “Treaty.”
Apparently it is intended to keep the
crippled and discredited League nomi-
nally alive as a scarecrow to international
peace-breakers. Sydney papers recently
reported the case of a suburban orchard-
ist who put a scarecrow in his garden to
frighten the birds away from the fruit.
The birds built their nests in it. That is
about as much notice as belligerently
disposed nations will take of the League
in its present condition. Except for the
billets it may provide for futile people
fussing about in the limelight, it would
be better decently dead in the hope of a
glorious resurrection some day with all
The nations that count as members. At
present it might intervene effectively, pro-
vided the big Powers outside allowed it
to, only in such cases as that of Den-
mark wantonly invading France or Por-
tugal making an unprovoked attack upon
England. Where a country the size of
Japan or Italy is concerned its only
weapons are press lies and fishfag abuse.
After the example we have just had
of what such weapons are worth to col-
lective security the nations are arming
for their own protection,faster than ever.
But to what purpose? Individual security
could be guaranteed in that way only by
every nation having an army able to
whip that of every other nation. Is there
no security possible then? Not until the
will to peace becomes universal. And
that may not be in our time. There are
no signs of it yet. And while waiting
nothing better can be done by any
nation wishing to survive than to adopt
Cromwell’s plan, “Trust in God and keep
your powder dry.”
This country just now has no powder
to speak of, damp or dry.—C. T. (N.S.W.).
“Don’t Say the Same Thing!”
Mr. Lyons must regret that he did
not apply his “keep-out-of-the-ring”
nolicy to his own Assistant Ministers in
"I suppose that little slip Wont stop a man getting his license, inspector ?”
been a transfer of buying from one coun-
try to the other.”
Japanese consumption has increased
total consumption. The British Imperial
Economic Committee has issued a report
which shows that Japanese consumption
increased from 10,000,000 pounds weight
0 f woo l per annum in the immediate pre-
war years to 244,000,000 pounds weight
p er annum in 1935 ; that the bulk of
japan’s purchases was for home con-
sumption and that 94 p.c. of them was
made in Australia.
What must the Japanese think of us
when Minister after Minister is respon-
sible for such absurdities? — L. A. Boyce
(Q.).
Bradford’s Attitude
p ew woo ig roW ers share the illusion of
Stevens about Bradford maintain-
- WO( q va i ues . With Japanese buy-
. wer jacked o ut by our pick-
handle diplomats the bears will run riot
- n t^e Australian market, and we shall see
prices for next season’s clip tumbling
g own
Bradford is the traditional foe of high
prices; only strong international com-
petition has kept it up to scratch. Every
penny fall means a loss of more than
£3,000,000 to the community.— Riverina
Grazier (N.S.W.).
In Brisbane Gaol
Those 13 killers in Brisbane gaol (B.
8/7/’36) had the time of their lives on
King’s Birthday. Radio and vaudeville
entertainers kept them merry, while food
and even delicacies were served ad lib.
In the public parks and other places
thousands of unemployed passed a weary
day, and the morrow brought them no
hope. The few shillings they receive
each week from a Labor Government
scarcely keep soul and body together.
The slayer Kopit just missed the fes-
tivities, but next King’s Birthday he will
be among the prisoners making merry by
benevolent permission of the authorities.
Some time ago it was reported that
one of the most privileged positions in-
side the gaol, that of librarian, had been
given to a killer, the perpetrator of one
of the most cowardly murders —a mar-
ried woman was the victim —in the
annals of crime. This was not denied.
An official said that if a killer wanted to
learn the piano he should have his tastes
attended to, adding that most crimes of
violence were committed on the spur of
the moment. When the writer challenged
this statement, as far as recent murders
were concerned, there was no reply.—
Richard F. Stephens (Q.).
Anzac Day
“8.8. J.” (B. 1/7/’36) is, I think, en-
tirely right. Anzac Day should not be-
come a day of gloom ; it should be a
true commemoration of “The Jesting
Army” as a whole. We followed our
dead comrades (when funerals were pos-
sible, as in England) to their last resting-
place to the solemn notes of “The Dead
March.” The last sod having fallen on
the grave, solemnity vanished; we
marched back to camp to the strains of
“Colonel Bogey” and “Tipperary.”
The first Anzac Day celebration I took
part in was at Hennencourt Wood in
1917, Sports of all kinds were indulged
in, and the chief prizes were represented
by beer. Every man was a “trier.” Many
who won and helped to drink the beer
that day never saw “Aussie” again. It
never seems right to me that they should
be kept in memory by a day devoted to
church services and irritating restrictions
upon their younger brothers and sisters.
—Herbert Dawson (N.S.W.).
Murray and MacGregor
It is regrettable to find that a Parlia-
mentarian like Charles Marr should re-
peat the nowadays-popular parrot-cry that
modern methods of native administration
in New Guinea are due primarily to
Hubert Murray, “who inaugurated the
system when he took charge of Papua
about 30 years ago.” Murray has done
fine work, but has gone no further than
to extend, with a greater income and
an increased staff, the system drafted
by Sir William MacGregor and meticu-
lously detailed by that great proconsul in
his reports, which are accessible in any
decent public library. Even the native
medical service of which Marr and
others make so much was one of Mac-
Gregor’s ideas, though he could only
manage small beginnings with native hos-
pitals at centres like Port Moresby and
Samarai.
Probably the most successful feature of
native administration in Papua has been
the village constabulary. This idea of
giving a leading cannibal a uniform and
authority over his fellows was at that
time unique in the story of native ad-
ministration. It has been an unchecked
success ever since. MacGregor did this
and many other revolutionary acts on his
own initiative, including the penning of
missionary sects each within its own
mapped territory.
When MacGregor went to Papua feel-
ing between Christian denominations ran
high. In other parts of the Pacific this
rivalry has led to bloody attacks and re-
prisals among the native followers of the
Prince of Peace. Papua was saved from
this danger by MacGregor. Above all it
was MacGregor who laid it down as an
essential of Papuan administration that
the welfare of the native and his safe-
guarding from the influences of civilisa-
tion should come before all else. —
Imbaga (N.S.W.).
Shift a Few Factories
Latham Withall, secretary of the N. S.
Wales Chamber of Manufactures, has
been doing some constructive work for
Australia in Britain.
In a letter which the “Times ’ prints
on its leader page he points out that,
while the Australian tariff must influ-
ence the character of trade, it does not
influence the total amount of British
imports:
That factor is determined by funds in
London remitted from the proceeds ol
Australian exports, less, of course, the
amount of interest and other forms ot
payment that have to be met annually.
He emphasises that “Imperial interests
demand a cordial recognition of the vital
importance of Australia developing, and
should by every means encourage its
manufacturing integrity.” And he hints
that Australia would welcome the estab-
lishment of more British branch fac-
tories in Australia.
Movement of manufacturing from
Britain to Australia must obviously be
accompanied by a movement of popula-
tion which would help to solve Britain’s
unemployment problem, and give an
absolute protection to British capital in-
vestment against all foreign manufac-
turers.
Ten years ago Stanley Baldwin voiced
the opinion to the Empire Parliamentary
Association that the time might come
when the centre of Britain might shift
to the Antipodes away from the con-
tinual foreign entanglements of the Con-
tinent and adjacent to the untouched
manufacturing raw-material sources of
the overseas Dominions.
More population and more develop-
ment for new countries like Australia are
the best possible ramparts against inter-
national envy, and expansion of manu-
facture at raw-material sources is the
best protection for British Common-
wealth trade routes, since primary indus-
tries must expand with secondary indus-
tries and make trade routes more and
more internal. —E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Unification
The U.A.P. at annual conferences has
repeatedly rejected proposals for unifi-
cation. Labor has a unification plank,
but there are many more State than
Labor Federal members, and the voice
of the majority prevails.
The Constitution provides that any
such alteration as would be necessary to
bring unification into being must be done
by a referendum, which must be carried
by a majority of electors in a majority
of States.
To the writer’s mind, a new party with
a pro-referendum policy would get much
support from the electors, and a number
sufficient to force the Government’s hand
might conceivably be elected.
Unification would not seriously inter-
fere with the number of public servants,
but it would eliminate six Parliaments
and six Governors, save over £1,000,000
p.a. in salaries and expenses and bring
our taxation, transport, finance and
other departments under one control, in
place of seven. Above all, it would
create a genuine Australian national sen-
timent in our people.
An organisation known as the Austra-
lian Unification League has been formed,
with offices at 34 Martin-place, Sydney.
—A. H. Pikett (N.S.W.).


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Aberfeldie Hurdles: Brilliant
Son ; next, Cape Race.
Lindsay Gordon Steeple: El
Damaroyal; next, Wanconner.
Glen Orla Handicap: Gay
Circle ; next, Alaric.
Derrimut Handicap: Heros;
next, Spinifex.
Sunset Welter; Mutable ; next,
Desert Chief.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Flying Handicap: Windbird or
Beaupre ; next, Belgravia.
Rosehill Handicap: Kagal; next,
Foudroyant.
Carlingford Mile: Windbird or
Dulcedo ; next, King Gee.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sixteen Annas will have no oppor-
tunity of repeating his 1935 Australian
Hurdle victory. Running in the Leam-
ington Hurdle at Caulfield the Shillinglee
gelding took off too far at the second-
last obstacle, hit the top of it, crashed on
his neck and was killed. Fullarton hav-
ing elected to ride Eastern Chief, whom
he trains for P. B. Quinlan, the mount
on Sixteen Annas went to Maher. The
Sydney nag had earned the reputation
of being a clever jumper, who knew how
to put in a “short ’un” at the right time ;
but Maher says he made a blind leap.
By running Cold Spring to a long neck
in the Leamington Hurdle, the M.L.-bred
Cape Race put up a wonderful perform-
ance. He was a clear last for the greater
part of the journey, and did not look to
have a 100-to-l chance at the straight
entrance. However, the Cape Horn geld-
ing answered so resolutely to the calls of
J. D. Martin that he beat Brilliant Son
by half a head for second place and
finished only a neck behind Cold Spring,
the winner. This form speaks highly for
the stamina of Cape Race. He belongs
to W. R. Kemball, whose Melbourne
string is divided between George Jones
and Hawthorne. Hawthorne has charge
of Cape Race, who will take a lot of
beating over the longer distance of the
Australian Hurdle if Kemball allows him
to start.
Cape Race wasn’t entered for the
National Hurdle, being only three years
old. He now has had a fair amount of
experience over the battens. Kemball
was the original owner of Beltane, who
lost the Australian Hurdle of 1919 to
Sir Mnemon in the final stride ; but Bel-
tane had been sold before that to Eli
Phillips.
Cold Spring has improved out of all
knowledge since he acquitted himself so
poorly in Sydney at Easter. He landed
the V.R.C. Keilor Hurdle and looked to
have the Doutta Galla in his keeping
two days later until Pooley Bridge
swooped down in dramatic fashion. Alan
McPhee, who represented Australia with
distinction in American rodeos some
years ago, holds Cold Spring on lease
with a right of purchase, which he is
almost sure to exercise.
Brilliant Son shaped vastly better on
Saturday than he had done in the
National. Shoved to the front three
furlongs from home he promised to score
“first up” for the new owner, R. N. G.
Barlow. Even when tackled by Cold
Spring he fought on with a gameness
which was nonexistent at Flemington.
Mayhap the mud at headquarters didn’t
suit Brilliant Son ; the Caulfield track is
sandy and never furnishes anything worse
than dead going.
After being in command at the last
obstacle Eastern Chief tired and was
beaten for fourth place by Dah, another
son of Eastern Monarch. If he had
not blundered at several stages of the
race Dah must have been “in the money.”
There was unexpectedly good support for
Eastern Chief, who had fallen with L. J.
Hynes and given that jockey a broken
''ollarbone in the Trial Hurdle on
National Steeple day.
Eastern Chief is to come up for sale
shortly with other horses belonging to
P. B. Quinlan, whose chief patron, J. P.
Arthur, also is quitting the game—tem-
porarily, at all events. Both Quinlan and
Arthur were incensed at a swab of the
saliva of Conandale having been taken
before the colt —owned by Arthur —
started in the Two-year-old Mile at Flem-
ington. On analysis the swab showed no
trace of any deleterious substance. The
stewards had acted “on information re-
ceived from an official,” who discovered
a “mare’s nest.”
Santa Casa (6 to 1) followed up his
National Steeple triumph by taking the
Godfrey Watson Steeple and won once
more by “coming from the clouds.” But
allowance must be made for the chance
of El Damaroyal having been ruined
through colliding with a fallen horse at
the second fence. The clever horseman-
ship of Healey averted complete disaster,
but El Damaroyal dropped back many
lengths behind the nearest horse. He
made up a lot of leeway to be third
coming to the home turn, but could not
maintain the effort. If anything, what
occurred enhances the Australian Steeple
prospects of El Damaroyal.
Neville Percival, who has announced
his intention of riding in India after the
spring meetings, broke a long run of
“outs” by annexing the Murrumbeena
Handicap on Gay Friar (Gay Lothario—-
Ira), who is raced by Clive Baillieu in
conjunction with the St. Albans stud pro-
prietors, H. G. Raymond and H. B.
Ranken. So far Gay Friar, being rather
delicate, has been trained by Guy Ray-
mond at St. Albans, but Guy intends
going abroad soon, and other arrange-
ments will have to be made for the geld-
ing’s future. Offered for sale a week or
so ago, Gay Friar was passed in at
300gns. He earned £4BO on Saturday.
Once trained by Bailey Payten at
Randwick, but now racing in Tasmanian
colors, Illawarra (Excitement —Melli-
cent) dealt Caulfield backers a body blow
by winning the Lillimur Two-year-old at
33 to 1. Divisions of the Kambrook
Trial were won by Rondeletia and Per-
fect Idea, both ridden by L. Harrison,
whose uncle, George Harrison, used to
be in the top flight of lightweight jockeys.
The most exciting event of the after-
noon was Lilirene’s success in the Mal-
vina Welter. This mare belongs to Dr.
Jean Rountree, a sister-in-law of Bob
Lewis, who, despite the fact that he will
be aged 58 in November, continues to
hold a jockey’s license. Lewis rode Lili-
rene out with all the vigor that he
showed in years gone by, and the crowd
yelled with delight when he came back
to scale.
* * * *
Serlodi’s trip to Melbourne was not
successful, but it would have been had
he been kept there longer. That was the
general impression at Canterbury Park,
Sydney, after the Canterbury Handicap,
in which the Queensland horse started
at 5 to 2 after fours had been laid. Made
to carry his 9sf. all the way, he out-
stayed Foudroyant and Tapestry, and
scored cleverly in time (2min. 22sec.)
only three-quarters of a second outside
the track record for 11 furlongs. Ser-
lodi is not in the Epsom or Metrop.,
but he should win more races on Sydney
tracks.
Newcastle-owned Belgravia (9 to 4) put
up a sterling performance in the first
division of the Flying Welter. Orient
Orb had such a commanding lead turn-
ing for home that Belgravia’s trainer, Tom
Murray, gave up hope. However, Bel-
gravia kept reducing the advantage and a
few yards from the judge flashed up on
the outside to score by a head. Poponaise
was third and Cognac fourth—neither
ever looked a possibility. Norman Con-
quest kept Orient Orb company in the
early stages, and will do well in weaker
company.
Bonnie Rion’s victory in the second
division pleased the bookies, for the
price was 20 to 1, with few takers. Bill
Bryan had been disappointed with her
previous outings. After Rhamses and
Concilio had run themselves to a stand-
still, the Rionscup mare came fast and
scored nicely from the favorite, New
Tip, whose rider waited too long on the
rails. Rhamses was third. Povertdale
was one of the failures. He had lOst.
31b. to carry and the lightly-fleshed geld-
ing was evidently not suited by the high
scale.
Queensland pastoralist Canon got Don
Caesar for 80 guineas. A son of Legion-
naire and a stablemate of Belgravia, Don
Cassar finished gamely in the Juvenile
Handicap and beat Earl Sun by a head,
with Emulate third. Bull Ant finished
in that place, but his rider forgot to
weigh in and was suspended for a month
—poor consolation for tote backers of
Bull Ant. Water Waggon and Match-
less were slow away. Bronze Lady, a
small filly by Brazen, led to the top of
the straight.
Crunatus won the first division of the
Maiden in runaway fashion; he was
backed from tens to sixes. It was his
third start and he may develop into a
useful sprinter. Crunatus is by Crusoe,
who never raced ; his dam, Albanatus, is
by Patronatus. The gelding carries the
colors of Joe Kingsley, now at Ken-
sington, but formerly of Tamworth. The
second division went to Golden Gram
(7 to 2), a son of Marconigram, who can
go fast; he led throughout.
Gipsy Chief’s victory in the Ashbury
Handicap gave W. Cook his third win-
ning mount —he had ridden Golden
Gram and Don Caesar. Gipsy Chief
started at fives. Confab tried to steal
away half a mile from home, but Gipsy
Chief had him beaten at the Leger. Head
Boy came from the clouds to run third,
followed by the favorite, El Paraiso, who
was troubled by the turns. Sarsign,
from Gundagai, showed pace until his
condition gave out.
Knox, who had ridden 98 winners
during the season, and had set his heart
on making it a century, weighed out
for Artsman in the first division of the
Maiden Handicap, but was kicked at
the post. He had to be taken back to
the enclosure in an ambulance, and the
surgeon found that a bone above the
left ankle had been fractured. Very
bad luck.
* * * *
As was the case last year, Brisbane
horses were well represented at the
Grafton (N.S.W.) races. The Clarence
River Jockey Club Handicap, the princi-
pal event on the first day, went to one
of the Brisbane lot —Ruffian, by Brazen
—Ortelle’s March, He was one of the
outsiders, going out at 10 to 1, but he
dashed to the front almost at once, and
had an advantage of three lengths from
the favorite, Verberry, at the end of a
mile run in Imin. 37sec. Sleepmond was
the same distance behind Verberry. Early
in his career, Ruffian raced in Sydney
without success. He is one of the multi-
tude of horses that a change of climate
has improved out of all knowledge.
They waste no time at Grafton. Not
24 hours after the C.R.J.C. Handicap,
the ownership of the Grafton Cup was
decided ; and again Ruffian figured sen-
sationally in the race. After striking all
sorts of trouble, he finished a close third
to Osculum (3 to 1) and Verberry (5 to
2); and his jockey lodged a protest
against the two. It was dismissed. The
distance was one mile 540 yards, and
Osculum ran it in 2min. 10 2-ssec. A
three-year-old by Doric —Sister Vamp,
he is owned by Mrs. E. J. Watt, wife
of the A.J.C. committeeman, who is ill.
The colt’s form has been pretty good
this year, and some surprise was ex-
pressed when his name did not appear
among the nominations for the Epsom
and Metrop., but a N.S.W. North Coast
and Queensland campaign was planned
for him instead.
Footbrawl
With f.a.q. club goal-kicking, Australia
would have led England 6-0 inside the
first quarter-hour of the deciding Rugby
League match at Sydney Cricket Ground.
For, that period the Englishmen were
pinned to their 25, and penalties went to
the Australians like gifts of free beer.
But Brown’s kicking this year has been
lamentable, and after a couple of poor
attempts he tried Gilbert, whose effort
was even worse. Then Brown surpris-
ingly booted quite a good one, and two
stayed lonely on the board as Australia’s
only score till well into the second half,
when Key’s try, converted by Brown,
lifted it to seven.
The first English score had had a full-
dress rehearsal in the Brisbane Test —the
ball cross-kicked to Crippen’s wing, Crip-
pen failing to take it and his opposing
winger making the try. Hodgson, from
inches off the chalk-line, booted a beauti-
ful goal. A capital try by Brogden, after
a tricky run through the mid-field, an-
other good goal by Hodgson and a field
goal from the same useful boot wound
up the solid but hardly thrilling per-
formance. England 12, Australia 7.
The choice item of the match was that
field goal of Hodgson’s, He snapped the
ball up in the thick of a close ruck and
instantly drop-kicked through a mill of
legs. It was a pretty example of the Eng-
lishmen’s finish, and this is what beat the
Australians. With the finish that pretty
well all of them have, the Englishmen
will score if a score is at all possible ; the
Australians, in this match, could not
finish off several promising scoring
moves. Individually, England’s five-eighth
Jenkins was the star of the piece. He
beat even Hey, and that’s as high praise
as this scribe can think of.
There was the usual display of League
Test bash, and' Arkwright (England) and
Stehr (Australia) were sent off. Ark-
wright walked to the stand to a mixed
accompaniment of applause and hoots ;
Stehr, half-carried by ambulance men,
staggered to stony silence. Stehr has
been sent off twice in the three Tests —
and by calling he is a policeman!
“G.S.”; My private opinion is that the
Englishmen half-kidded and half-bluffed
their way to victory over players that
might have been moulded into a superior
side. It may not have been part of the
plan to put the wind up the Australian
selectors, though this was accomplished
in the case of the hooker, a post given
at the eleventh hour to an ageing Queens-
lander who had never hooked. (Even
“S. M. Herald,” which wouldn’t deli-
berately hurt the feelings of a cuttlefish,
recorded in pained sentences that to-
wards the close of proceedings the re-
spectable old gentleman was so spent
that when he toppled over he had to be
helped up by a mate.) But re-reading
League-press accounts, one can’t help
being amused at the story that the in-
vaders were a lot of cripples whose
favorite recreation, when nursing their
wounds, was to marvel open-mouthed at
the superlative football talents of the
Australians (say) Bloggs and Dipper.
Saturday’s match saw them fighting-fit
and running rings round Bloggs and
Dipper—particularly Dipper. In football
as in cricket, these “Chooms” know
every trick of the trade.
* * * *
After Saturday’s Union football only
three points separated five Sydney teams.
Randwick, beaten one point by North,
comes down again to share the top posi-
tion with West; Uni., Drummoyne and
North follow, one point between each.
Randwick led North 9-nil at the end of
the first half, but forward the North-
erners had all the better of the second
spell, and the Greens couldn’t keep them
out; 10-9. ’Wick would have done better
had it left Richards at five-eighth. West,
fielding anything but its best side, beat
Manly everywhere. Kelaher had few op-
portunities ; the Western wingers had
plenty: 26-15. Solid defence against a
faster team and better kicking for goal
gave ’Varsity a one-point win over Drum-
moyne: 18-17. Gordon surprised by
beating Parramatta in a hard-tackling
game: 11-mV. Starved on the wing, the
Gordon captain O’Brien transferred to
the centre, scored one try, made the other
and added a couple of goals. St. George
still struggles hopefully. It never looked
like holding East, but did manage two
tries: 24-6
* * * *
The two matches which were expected
to prove the most interesting in Mel-
bourne on Saturday were Melbourne
v. Richmond and Carlton v. South. Both
came up to expectations and provided
close finishes. Melbourne was expected
to extend Richmond, but went further
and beat the Tigers by 17 goals 10
behinds to 15-13. South narrowly staved
off defeat by Carlton—l 6-11 to 14-16.
Collingwood, smarting from defeat by
South on the previous Saturday, went
down again—this time to the much-im-
proved Geelong side: 13-15 to 11-9.
Other results: Hawthorn 8-19 beat
North Melbourne 7-11 ; St. Kilda 19-15
defeated Fitzroy 16-9; and Footscray
16-18 downed Essendon 12-15.
Melbourne’s win and Carlton’s defeat
means that the former now holds a firm
grip on fourth place, and unless some-
thing very unexpected happens the final
four will remain unchanged.
(Continued on next page.)


M. (and Rafferty) Rule*
Jack Jarvis, Maoriland’s lightweight
champion, is boxing in Sydney, and has
won a fight or two. He is a stiff puncher,
but a bit slow. Opposed to Hughie
Mehegan at Leichhardt, he was out-
boxed for several rounds, and was once
down ; but in the eighth he sent Mehegan
to the floor with a right cross to the
chin. The Australian rose unsteadily, and
was trying to defend himself against the
ropes when came the gong. Mehegan
heard it and dropped his hands, but the
sound did not reach the excited Maori-
lander, who landed another right on the
chin. Jack Haines disqualified him. Hard
luck, but unquestionably right.
Foolbrawl
“Jolimont”: Bad weather has hit
V.F.L. gates hard, and some clubs have
found it necessary to cut the £3-a-week
wage to £2, with a strong possibility of
others following suit. In spite of huge
attendances only a few of the senior
clubs are fairly financial. It is worth
noting that these are not in the grip of
cricket clubs as regards their grounds
and percentages of receipts.
* * * *
“Millefleurs”: Footscray (Vic.) Coun-
cil gravely considered a letter from the
V.F.A. in which that body called the
council to account for not taking proper
steps to protect the lives of umpires. The
letter said the protective measures em-
ployed were “not equal to the standard
of safety required” ; a special room for
umpires with an enclosed race to the
playing field was required. The council
handed the matter over to its engineer,
with orders to get busy at once. Is
there any other place in the world than
Melbourne where such an extraordinary
condition of things as that suggested in
the letter could exist and be accepted as
a matter of course? Yankee baseball
barrackers are rated tough, but umpires
are not compelled to cower in dugouts
while off the field nor compelled to use
the equivalent of communication trenches
lo get on and off it.
H* 'l* •!• -I"
“Stoush”; Foul football has increased
to an alarming extent in Victoria.
League umpires were told they must
take special steps to stamp it out, with
the result that 20 cases have gone before
the League tribunal already. The other
day a batch of three were sent up for
four Saturdays, and others are on the
peg. The simple remedy of giving the
umpire power to send an offender off the
field at once would reduce the trouble.
* 'l* H*
The English League footballers beat
N. Northern Districts at Armidale
by 19-15 in one of the toughest bouts of
all-in stuff ever seen up that way. The
ref., however, held liberal opinions, and
only one man —an Englishman—was sent
off.
H 5
“Plug Ugly”: That comment on foul
play in professional football (B. 8/7/’36)
was merited in a way, but players are
not altogether to blame. To Englishmen
at least winning the game means the
maintenance of their means of liveli-
hood, and human nature is apt to con-
sider that aspect before all others. Much
of the harm is done by newspapermen
for ever stressing the “he-man” aspect of
the game. Then the public now expects
to see this sort of stuff when it goes to
a match of professionals, just as wrest-
ling addicts demand at least imitations
of mayhem and cavemanship. The evil
example soon spreads. A recent Sydney
League match is described by the press
as the most ruffianly seen in this class of
football for years. The club footballer
naturally considers that if the big bug
gets praise and publicity for Apache
tactics he might as well have a flutter.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The triangular Rugby
Union tourney in Sydney was a flop. The
N.S.W. contention that it encourages the
game by bringing men from the Southern
States to play before Sydney Rugby
sophisticates is so much mouthwash. The
visit of a Queensland or N.S.W. team to
Victoria and Adelaide every season, to
give the public of those cities some idea
what Rugby is like, would do more to
shove the game ahead there than an
alleged “carnival” held in a city where
there is too much Rugby of one sort and
another already.
* * * *
“Stand, Off”: The Rugby team for
M.L. includes only one of the Queens-
land forwards who cut even with N.S.W.
in the closing match of the “carnival” in
Sydney. There are 18 N. S. Welshmen,
four Queenslanders and three Victorians.
Among them are Egan, a younger
brother of the Waratah of the same
name; Pauling, son of Tom Pauling,
who represented M.L. and Australia;
and Dorr, a noted Victorian sprinter.
There are too many loose forwards, and
the All-Blacks may capitalise this fault.
The team leaves Sydney on August 13
and plays 10 matches, including two
Tests and a game with the Maoris.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W.R.U., aided
by the Queensland body, has again man-
aged to shelve a Victorian proposal for
an Australian Board of Control. N. S.
Wales, without any authority, has long
assumed sole management of the code
for the continent. Victorians urged
that an Australian Union would carry
more weight than that of a State, and
was necessary for the advancement of
the game in States which are practically
neglected. Queenslanders advanced the
hoary old gag that the time was “not
yet ripe.” If N.S.W. control is persisted
in the game in Victoria and S.A. will cer-
tainly slip again.
* * * *
“Everton”: The British F.A. has de-
cided to enter a team for the Olympic
Games, subject to assurances as to
amateurism of the other entrants. Britain
withdrew from the Games some years
ago when the Olympic committee per-
mitted payment for “broken time”—
that is, for wages lost while taking part
in the Olympiad—to players, and also
shook the mud of the international Soccer
federation off when that body decided
on the same course. There are many
high-class amateur teams in England, and
a strong representation could be chosen
for Berlin. The tourney would be no
soft snap for the strongest, for the Soccer
standard in some parts of the Continent
is very high nowadays.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”; The Lucifer golf tourna-
ment for overseas players in England,
held annually at Walton Heath, was won
“How far is it to the station, please?”
“About one drive and two decent mashie shots!”
by the young South African Locke, 3
up on bogey. He was followed by
players from Hong Kong, India, Shang-
hai. N.S.W. and “Australia,” so the entry
was fairly representative. The Sydney-
sider was Dr. P. S. Jones ; Jim Perrier
was at sea on his way to the U.S.A.,
and did not enter.
* * t- *
“Lakeside”: Bobby Jones knows how
sweet are the uses of advertisement. It
is announced that he will visit Britain
this month, and that his first match will
be against King Edward at Sunningdale
on July 28. Bobby’s form is said to be
pretty doughy nowadays, and it Would be
a great thing for the Anglo-American
rapprochement if H.M. could hand him
a hiding. The idea is capable of exten-
sion. Having played the Emperor of
India, Bobby might tackle the rival
Emperors of Abyssinia, Haile Silassie
and Victor Emmanuel. From there to
Hitler and Stalin would be a natural
transition, and if Bobby came through
it all in one piece he would have some-
thing to tell the world when he got home.
“Hoylake”; Kirkwood has always
been an admirer of Jim Perrier since
he saw the lad at work when Joseph
was here with Sarazen. He thought it
worth while sending £5O to St. Andrews
to back the Australian, and was obliged
at 50 to 1. A beautiful bet just came
unglued, but Joe says the excitement he
got out of the finish was worth the
money. Kirkwood is leaving for a tour
of Eastern Asia with Hagen shortly, and
the pair expect to be in Australia early
next year.
* :J: sS:
Beaten in the N.S.W. women’s golf
championship by Mrs. Clive Robinson,
Mrs. Pennefather had the consolation of
winning the foursomes title with Mrs.
Reid. The pair handed in a card of 165,
two better than that of the runners-up,
Mesdames Robinson and Clements.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The clash between the
Adelaide centenary and the Australian
championship dates (B. 15/7/’36) has
been dodged. The Adelaide show will
be over on September 17, and the Aus-
tralian open begins on September 24 ;
this will give players at Adelaide a week
in Melbourne to get used to the Metro-
politan course. Jim Perrier, however,
thinks this isn’t long enough, and he will
give Adelaide a miss and concentrate on
the open, which he is keen on winning.
He landed in the U.S.A. last week, and
after a few days at Los Angeles, where
he hopes to play a few games, sails for
Australia on the Mariposa.
* * * *
“Ipswich-road”: Brisbane is to have a
new golf course, and a first-class one at
that. It is being started by a Brisbane
syndicate on the lines of the Eleanora
and other Sydney clubs founded by the
issue of debentures. The course is on
what is now called the Prince’s Highway
and is a sporting one, 6454 yards long,
well grassed, and with a creek running
through it. In days gone by sugar- and
sisalgrowing were practised there, but
these gave place to horse-planting, an
industry to which the then distant
wooded dells and secluded glades of Mt.
Gravatt gave every encouragement. It
was taken for granted by Brisbane cits.
that when a man turned up with the
missing prad to claim the reward he
would say he had found it out Mt.
Gravatt way.
Racquet and Bawl
“Susie Swattit”; The tennis girls
have been granted permission to send
a team abroad next year. The itinerary
has not been settled yet, but on the
lines of past tours should include
Wimbledon and some of the Continental
tourneys, concluding with the U.S.A. if
gate receipts are satisfactory.
“Top Spin”; Sydney tennis experts
have found a potential world-beater in
young Gilchrist, of Eastern Suburbs, who
won the hardcourt and junior champion-
ships recently. So good a judge as Jim
Willard says that, though he has yet to
learn much, the root of the matter is
in Gilchrist. Best of all he is an ortho-
dox stylist with no disturbing monkey
tricks.
Miscellaneous
“Fenner’s”: The Oxford-Cambridge
cricket match seems to be losing its
punch as news. Years ago we would
have had half a column about it, with
politics and other minor matters rele-
gated to obscure corners of the papers.
This year it was recorded in four lines
that Cambridge won by an innings and
eight wickets. The Light Blues made
432 for 9 and 17 for 2 ; Oxford (without
the Australian Kimpton), 209 and 239.
Mitchell-Innes, here with the Marylebone
side last year, made 84 for Oxford, and
was pushed into the Gentlemen v.
Players match. A new bowler, Brockle-
bank, took 6 for 92 for Cambridge.
* * * *
‘'Hove": Whenever relations become
strained between two first-class cricket
counties, it is pretty safe to assume that
Notts will be one of them. Sussex re-
quired but two runs in the second
innings to wallop the Lacemen, but rain
started ; Heane, the Notts captain, suc-
cessfully appealed to the umpires against
play being continued, and the two runs
were never obtained. The Sussex com-
mittee wrote hotly to the Notts com-
mittee, threatening to cancel all future
engagements unless disapproval of
Heane’s action was publicly expressed.
The reply was diplomatically ambiguous.
It pointed out that Heane acted strictly
within the rules ; nevertheless, the com-
mittee would have preferred him not to
take such action. After which, by way of
tempering the wind to the shorn lamb, a
vote of confidence in Heane was passed.
Whether this will be regarded as the soft
answer which turneth away wrath has
not transpired.
jji :\i jJ; *
The Olympic Games open officially
on August 1, and the competitions begin
with the athletic events the next day.
The sculling heats and final are down
for August 11-14, and the double sculls
and eights also. Swimming events range
from August 8 to 15. Wrestling runs
from August 2-9, and boxing from
August 10 to 15. The cycle events are
on August, 6,7, 8 and 10.
* * * *
“Spike”: Australian reports from
Berlin are that the Japanese have been
putting up such amazing performances
in practice that they seem certain of the
major swimming events. Metcalfe and
Pearce must have chances, and Austra-
lian cyclists are always to be reckoned
with, but the Police crew will have to
meet solid and experienced competition
and would be better suited by a longer
course than the Olympic 2000 metres.
Even Metcalfe may find Japanese oppo-
sition too strong in the hop, step and
jump, and one cannot give him much
of a chance against the two Yankee high-
jumpers who recently tied at 6ft. 9Jin.
Another handicap is the shin-soreness
and muscle-stiffness consequent on run-
ning on cinder tracks for the first time.
Metcalfe has had to change his style
because of the different take-off on the
cinders.
* * ♦ *
“The Gaffer”: The usual batch of
new records have been put up in America
in the trials for the Yankee Olympic
team. Two cullud gemmum, Johnson
and Britton, tied for the high jump with
6ft. 9Jin. Another, Jesse Owens, ran
200 metres in 21sec. —figures which
would suggest he was trying to keep
ahead of a lynching bee.
“Blade”: Britain has chosen Beresford
and Southwood to row in the double
sculls at Berlin, so our entry will have at
least one stiff hurdle to cross. Beresford
is one of the finest scullers England has
produced. He won the Diamond and
Wingfield sculls as long ago as 1920, and
the same year was second at Antwerp
Olympiad to Kelly. However, he took
the sculls at the Paris Olympiad in 1924,
while he also rowed in the coxwainless
fours which won at Los Angeles in 1932.
H*
“Thames”: Fairbairn’s claim that the
Zurich crew which cleaned up Henley
did so because it used his style (B.
15/7/’36) has been furiously contra-
dicted by half a dozen other rowing ex-
perts, some of whom use quite regret-
table language. Perhaps the best explana-
tion of the mixup comes from George
Mackenzie, coach of the Australian eight
at Berlin. Mackenzie says that if you
put six different coaches to teach the
same style you will get six different re-
sults. He likes the Fairbairn method, but
adds that the essentials of good rowing
are still bladework, rhythm, poise and
legwork—all canons of the old “ortho-
dox” teaching.
* * *
“Longtail”: Even animals draw the
line somewhere. A young greyhound
being taken from Queensland to Sydney
to be initiated into the tin-hare industry
broke out of his crate, bit a hole in the
fabric of the ’plane and jumped out to
make a finish after a 2000 ft. drop. No
doubt the unhappy creature felt unequal
to facing the amenities of the “poor
man’s sport” as practised in Sydney.


mm
m
'
*
■m
"In the world of radio this is the
The new eleven valve all-wave unit is the 1936 version
of ULTIMATE’S de luxe model, which year by year has set
new standards in radio design and outstanding performance.
Revolutionary new designs make this set so far advanced
over conventional models that it sets a new trend in receiver
design.
ULTIMATE engineers have done more than merely add
new metal tubes. They have re-designed this set to get every
advantage from these new tubes.
All Wave + High. Fidelity
Twice the tonal range of any other receiver—bringing you
every glorious glowing overtone audible to the human ear —
overtones of voice, violin, oboe, clarinet, trombone, saxo-
phone, etc., missed by all other radios.
Here is a set two years ahead of mass production re-
ceivers with a power so great that the giant volume can be
liandled only by a 12in. theatre type electro dynamic speaker
capable of handling 25 watts.
Technical Bulletin No. 11 AW on this model avail. hie from the Sole Australian Concessionaires.
ULTIMATE
Here is a set so sensitive that foreign stations come in
like locals, yet so engineered that interfering noises are kept
right in the background. No sound need be made when
locating a station owing to the Cathode Ray visual tuning
system, yet the volume can at once be brought up from a
whisper to auditorium volume that will give you that greatest
thrill of great music—the splendour of undistorted peak
passages.
Dual-Unit design : ULTIMATE is built in two separate
units —Tuner and Amplifier : This Dual-Unit construction
permits the segregation of parts and wiring, eliminates inter-
set noise development and interference, and promotes increased
efficiency.
Ask your dealer about this new Dual-Unit de luxe all-
wave ULTIMATE. He can fit it to your existing cabinet or
else supply you with it mounted in any of our special cabinets
or as a radio-gramophone combination.
George Brown & Co., Ltd.,
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Agents: Kola Reproducers. Van Kuyten Car and Launch Radio,
Muilard Radiovalves.
See and hear this amazing set at David Jones’
Radio Hall—3rd Floor, George St.
FEATURES: —II Tubes: 16 to 556 metres:
True High Fidelity: Variable Sensitivity:
Micro Vernier Dial: Band Spread Tuning:
20 Watts undistorted Output: Full A.V.C.
Action: Gramophone Pick-up Terminals and
Switch: Maestro Tone Control: Auditorium
Speaker: Special Noise Suppressor Control:
Cathode Ray Visual Tuning .
B • writ advised on Your
ShDo ing Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
fg
Liui\bl Bißßi', famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
ind Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
ihooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range !
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
’rice
,o. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE BEEIABEE”
>.8.8X. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
-2in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
ocks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
.rip walnut stock. £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
Vo. 9—CASHMOBE D.8.8X. GUN, X2G.,
olid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
hoke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
ore-end pistol grip, walnut a !
lock; weight, about 71b dLI4/IU/“
Carriage Paid.
Vo. 16—MIDLAND GUN CO. D.B. HAMMER
JUN, 12G., top lever, side clips, 32in. barrels,
oth choke, bar locks; weight, ft "I /I 1 /.
ibout 7£lb. Price
Carriage Paid.
Vo. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8X
tIAMMEBLESS GUN, 12G., top lever cross-
olt, steel barrels, both choke, matted rib,
barrels and lug one-piece, 32in. barrels,
alnut stock, pistol grip, tested for nitro
"vders; weight, about Sib. £6/10/“
Price ' '
Carriage Paid,
o. 25—1VOK JOHNSON D.8.8X.
HAMMERIiESS GUN, 12G., 32m barrels;
oth full choke, top-lever crossbolt; Anson
ind Deeley action. Tested for nitro £g
powders; weight, about 81b
Carriage Paid.
SP9RTING RIFLES
4n outstanding Rifle, fitted
with Telescopic Sight, now
retailing at the low price of
£6'l7'B
MOSS BERG .22
CALIBRE 3 O EX-
ACTION REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, 3BA-
ROVED MODEL4S
This is a remarkable
omb in at io n of a
superbly accurate Rifle,
quipped with a Micro-
net er Adjustable Rear-
ight and four-power
Telescope Sight, also
Micrometer Adjustable
,ight. The sales for
his Rifle have been un-
precedented, and in re-
ponse to demand we
are just landed an-
other large shipment
rom America.
hsdgf
10. 8
STEVENS’
iPRINGFIELD S.S. RIFLE
CO 22 calibre, bolt action,
22in. round barrel,
golf bead front and ladder rear sight;
weight, about 4|lb. /JC /
Price **£»/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
io. 40 SAVAGE BOLT-
ACTION REPEATING
HIFLE, MODEL 4,
round barrel, gold bead front and ladder
rear sights; takes 22 short, long or long-
rifle cartridges. Weight, s£lb. 80/
Carriage Paid.
Price
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
'tAYMARKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
A MIXED GRILL.
Dr. Munro, a professor from the
U.S.A., has been studying our Common-
wealth Constitution. He finds that it
is partly American and partly English,
and has one conspicuous fault—“the
Commonwealth Government is not
powerful enough.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”; A leading S.A. doctor
has advertised in the Death Notices the
passing of “Waggie, faithful and be-
loved companion, in his fifteenth year.”
Waggie was a dog. Opinions vary as to
whether it was slightly irreverent or a
touching and admirable tribute to an old
canine friend.
* * * *
When Queensland Premier-Treasurer
Smith opened his heart last year to give
payers of unemployed-relief tax a remis-
sion of a penny in the £1 of income he
reckoned his generosity would cost
£30,000, which was all the benevolent
Government could afford —out of
£2,454,917. The yield was not £30,000
less but £68,720 more. This brings the
total wad of unemployed-relief-tax re-
venue since 1931 to £10,486,791.
4* •!• H*
Dr. Martin, the Ethiopian Minister in
London, has asked the British people to
raise £2,000,000 so that Haile Silassie
may go back to Abyssinia and do more
fighting. If the amount is raised the
Abyssinians will- still be £2,500,000 down.
The Negus managed to get away with
£4,500,000.
“M.R.P.”: The time chloroform takes
to act (B. 1/7/’36) depends on the sus-
ceptibility of the patient. Women rarely
get beyond the seven count; one whom
I know does not count at all, the drug
acting instantaneously and the after-
effects being both long and severe. I once
heard of a child of six who sat up to
watch proceedings after a man-size dose.
* * * *
“Ex-P.B.L”: It would take a lot of
sun (B. 24/6/’36) to touch off a Mills
grenade. If solar heat were liable to
explode these efficient little man-killers,
it would have been bad luck for the in-
fantrymen who used them in Palestine,
Mespot., the N.-W. Frontier and other
warmish places. Rockhampton has a
particularly humid climate, and in all
probability the moisture in the air caused
a slow rusting through of the safety-pin
—hence the explosion. Just after the
war a Digger cobber of mine threw a
couple of “pineapples” (German light
trench-mortar bombs) into a shallow well
on his property, remarking that they
could do no damage there. Six years
later, in a very dry time, he was deepen-
ing the well and brought a mattock down
heavily on one of the forgotten bombs.
Result: four months in hospital with a
permanently lamed leg, and the whole of
one side of the well blown in. Only the
thick mud at the bottom of the well
saved him from being blown to mince-
meat.
“Lower Tops’!”: The usefulness of a
leatherjacket isn’t confined to the edi-
bility of the flesh ; its skin makes first-
class sandpaper. For fine quality just
tack the wet covering of a one-pounder
on your sandpaper block and, when
dry, use. Coarser grades are made from
the skins of larger fish. I knew a Nor-
wegian boatbuilder in Westernport
(Vic.) who used nothing else for wood
smoothing. The stuff takes years to
wear out.
* * * ♦
“Shrewsbury”: Syd Middleton has
been elected a member of Leander R.C.,
a rare honor for a man who has not been
at Oxford or Cambridge. Middleton,
who has been Australia’s rowing repre-
sentative in Britain for years, was also
a footballer of note and a member of
the first Wallabies of 1908. He was
No. 6 in Fitzhardinge’s Sydney R.C.
crew which won the 1912 Grand Chal-
lenge at Henley but was beaten by
Leander at Stockholm Olympiad the
same year.
* # * *
“Aigburth”: Frank Woolley, who at
49 looks good for several more seasons,
has passed W. G. Grace’s aggregate of
runs in first-class cricket, 54,896, with
54,906, Grace took 44 years and close
on 1500 innings. Woolley has been at
work only 30 years, and at the end of
last season had gone in 1370 times. In
30 years Hobbs piled up 61,221 runs in
1315 innings.


m
M
*
I SI
m
TENTS
ALL MARQUEE AND “GOLDO” TENTS
Complete. Telescopic Poles, Ropes, Pegs, etc.
SQUARE TENTS.
Square or Cottage Tents. Made from
Heavy English “Goldo” Tenting.
Superior make only. Well sewn and
best workmanship throughout.
6xB, 14/6; 8 x 10, 19/11;
10 x 12, 26/11.
FLYS.
Tent Flys, made from heavy English
"Goldo” Tenting. 8 x 10, 8/3;
9xll, 9/9; 10 x 12. 11/3;
12 x 12, 13/3; 12 x 14. 15/3.
MOTOR COVERS.
Roped edges and eyeletted.
14 x 16, 19/11; 16 x 16, 21/1 1 ;
16 x 18. 24/11; 15 x 20, 25/6;
18 x 20, 30/6.
TARPAULINS.
Freight Free on all Goods except Tents,
Tarpaulins, etc.
HORSE AND COW RUGS.
GOOD QUALITY JUTE CANVAS.
Dark check lined. Fitted with I jin.
leather breast strap. Leather leg straps.
4ft. 6in., 18/-; sft.. 19/-;
5 ft.* 6in., 20/-; sft. 9in„ 21/-;
6ft., 21/9.
HEAVY GREEN PROOFED DUCK.
White felt lined. Leather leg straps,
complete.
4ft. 6in„ 30/3; sft., 31/9;
sft. 6in„ 33/3; sft. 9in„ 34/6;
6ft., 35/9.
Part Freight, 1/6 extra on Rugs.
All sizes and qualities in stock at LOWEST
PRICES.
MARQUEE MOTOR TENTS, 6ft. Walls.
Size 12 x 12. 15oz. Waterproof Duck
TOR 9oz. Duck WALLS.
£4/17/6
• -'V-
v
\
“Goldo” IViarquee iVlotor Tents
Special Make and Extra Strong Construction.
Sizes.
LEATHER COATS
Direct from Sydney’s Leading Leather Coat Manufacturers at
Wholesale Prices.
ONLY GENUINE HIDES USED.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS.
Warm Waterproof Lasting
Ladies’ Tailored Leather Coats
Made from special ladies’ weight Genuine Calf-
skin. Shades of Mid Brown, New Season s
Tan, etc. Particularly well tailored and silk-
lined to match.
796
MEN’S QUALITY HIDE COATS
Finest Workmanship and Finish throughout.
Smart, warm and waterproof. Mid Brown or
Nigger Brown Shades.
A Special, Guaranteed 5 Years,
SPECIALLY SELECTED SUPER HIGH
796
GRADE, 99/6.
Men’s and Ladies’ LEATHER LUMBER JACKETS, Buttoned Front and Cuffs,
Wide Elastic Waist Band. Price '• •• ' V/e c/a
Men’s LEATHER CAPS 3 / 6 > 4 / 6 ’ 6 / b
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODHPURS
MEN’S JODHPURS, Grey or Fawn, Strong
Whipcord. Were 30/- 17/6
NOW, pair
LADIES’ JODHPURS, Well-tailored in
Saddletwist Gabardine. Usually, per
P-r 27/6 X6/H
NOW, per pair
MEN’S and LADIES’ RIDING BREECHES,
made from Smart and Strong Saddletwist.
All sizes. Usually, per pair, 27/6. IC/11
NOW, per pair
MEN’S HIGH-GRADE RIDING BREECHES,
in Bedford Cord. Particularly well-
tailored to fit.
Usually, per pair 39/6 27/6
NOW, per pair
r^*f
> ■
Margaret Sullivan
(Universal Star)
RIDING BOOTS
High-legged TRENCH 01 RIDING BOOTS. A
Boot and Legging in one. Double Strapped Top,
watertight tongue, extra well made, suitable Horse-
men, Prospectors, Bush and Farm Workers. Mens
or Ladies’, pair 211 b
WELLINGTON RIDING BOOTS, made from High-
grade Leather. Tan or Black. Ladies’, pair, 27 o
Men’s, pair 30/-
SHIRTS.
LUMBER JACK SHIRTS, Check Flannel. Collar
attached. Two Pockets. Long Sleeves. Were 8/11
NOW 3/U
American Striped DRILL SHIRTS. Pocket, Cipllar
attached, and made to wear wilth Tie if desired.
Usually 6/11. NOW 4/6
An EXCEPTIONAL WINTER SHIRT. Pinwire
Twist and Fleecy-lined. Fawn or Grey shades. Collar
attached. One Pocket. Long Sleeves. Very strong
and serviceable. Will give years of wear. GOLD-
MAN’S Price 8/11 each or 3 for 24/-
SENSATION
of the YEAR!
The New GROSVENOR
SLOTTED THROAT
TENNIS RACKET.
“RED DEVIL”
Gives much greater strength and
flexibility. The Spring (or recoil)
being quicker with the Slotted
Throat, considerably lessens the
shock and consequent wear on Racket. The Slotted Throat also eliminates any jar no matter how
badly the stroke is played or where ball strikes the racket. Oval or Semi-flat Top.
Fixed Selling Price 75/-. Our Price (200 only)
Chesterfield “REVELATION,” Usually 80/-. OUR PRICE 47/S
“SUPERSTROKE” or “MAGICIAN.” Usually 75/-. OUR PRICE 45 /-
All Strung with Edwards’s Gut, 100 Days Guarantee; 60 Days on Frames.
•••KiiiiSKilki
■mm
ISIS
■■••■ an
All High-grade Goods at Lowest
Prices.
Write for Free Catalogues.
MAIL ORDERS POST FREE.
FREIGHT EXTRA only on Heavy Articles,
such as TENTS, TARPAULINS, etc.
df
254 GEORGE STREET
(Next Bulletin Office),
also at
429 GEORGE STREET
(Corner Market Street),
SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years. ’Phone: 85745.


gdf
“Stanley”
Unbreakable
Vacuum Flask
Ivlade entirely of steel
end lined with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling hot
for 18 hours, and icy
cold for 36 hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Ideal for travelling.
Quart Size,
Price, 57/6.
"Stanley”
Hot Water Bottle,
Price, 25/-.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, risbanes
Australia 9 s Leading Financial Journal .
July Issue Now on Sale.
SHARES OF MERIT
A Market Review
FORESTRY BONDS AND SHARES
More Developments
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR fl/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Piihlicbod bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., L td. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
r m
II”'
fHT
lit”
m
m
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m
gir;
HOTEL
mm
if?:
S 3»
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Raw Materials, Trade Wars, etc.
Trade has the world tied up. Every-
where there is talk about tariffs and
retaliation, trade treaties, markets, now
colonies —colonies as a source of
raw materials and an outlet for manu-
factures. The welfare of peoples depends
a lot upon business activity, as well Aus-
tralia knows. Germany and Italy have
suffered more from the depression than
most other countries. Hitler and Mus-
solini are “news” at the moment because
of the feverish rearmament in Europe,
and especially in their own countries,
which have set the pace for other
nations.
It is interesting to consider how two
countries only now showing anything like
recovery can spend so much on rearma-
ment. Dictators can do a lot, especially
under war-time conditions, such as
existed recently in Italy. Once things
like “living standards” go by ( the
board, and Governments take control of
essential raw materials and the currency,
national resources can be developed at a
great rate. The chief hindrance to the
expansion of such countries is lack of
raw materials not available in sufficient
quantities in their own territories; hence
the great efforts, and the angry
arguments, in the matter of
establishing foreign credits (by
selling goods) in countries
where such raw materials are
to be got.
Petroleum, wool and rubber
are a few important raw com-
modifies which Germany, Italy and
Japan don’t produce on a large
scale, if at all. They are required in
bigger or smaller quantities by each. All
three countries have had, on average,
an unfavorable balance of trade with
the rest of the world for some years.
Thus, bluntly, it is difficult to see how,
in the long run, they can be expected to
buy more from the world if they don’t
sell more. And their manufactured
goods are something which the rest of
the world doesn’t want.
So far as Australia is concerned, the
policy of protecting its secondary indus-
tries has been fully justified. Even with
tariffs, we are barely able to keep imports
down to a point where they may be paid
for out of our exports. But Protection
and discrimination are two different
things, as we have lately had reason to
know.
Germany, lacking certain necessary
raw products, has been a cradle of inven-
tion. Synthetic nitrates, wool, silk,
cotton, petrol and other things have
been largely due to German genius,
fathered by necessity. These substitutes
have been successful in a great or small
degree. But they haven’t nearly remedied
the position.
Australia, in its total breadth, is well
endowed with the elements of modern
existence (barring, so far as has been
proved, petroleum), though they aren’t
always well distributed. Our best and most
easily-mined coal is all in N. S. Wales;
South Aus., which has rich iron deposits,
has no coal to speak of, and Westralia,
though it has a mine at Collie, imports
coal from N. S. Wales, as does Victoria.
Queensland is better off.
Wool, wheat, beef and other agricul-
tural and pastoral products may be pro-
duced in the appropriate areas and lati-
tudes, which range from the tropical
north to the temperate south. We have
a large variety of minerals, though in
some parts a scarcity of water. These
natural resources in many cases are still
awaiting adequate development. It can
be fairly said that one of the greatest
hindrances to their development has been
the burden of Government finance and
taxation. We have made these errors
in the past, in our prodigal youth. There
is little excuse for them now or in the
future. To develop on the right lines we
must spend wisely and administer
capably.
As suggested on this page last week,
there has been a steadying up in the im-
provement of business conditions.
Though the first five months of 1936
showed sales of representative Sydney
retailers to be up 5.4 p.c. on the same
period of 1935, for May the sales figures
were below those of May, 1935. The
figures are of especial interest to share-
market speculators. Present market buoy-
ancy in many cases demands increasing,
and not stable, company turnovers.
"We had to do it this Way. He's camera-shy.”
Our income and outgo in respect of
tourist business, according to Mr. Casey’s
estimates:
Year. Outflow. Inflow.
1931-32 £1,750,000 .. £1,000,000
3932-33 3,000,000 .. 1,000,000
1933- 3,500,000 .. 1,000,000
1934- 4.500,000 ~ 1,250,000
1935- 4,750,000 .. 1,500,000
1936- 5,000,000 .. 1,750,000
Nothing to worry about, says the author-
ity. Still, even if the figures fully state
the position, a net £3,250,000 Australian,
added to overseas interest, shipping
charges, dividends and capital with-
drawals, will give us an adverse balance
of payments overseas. But, of course,
we have just slashed the duties on British
cement, pottery, rubber goods and what
not, and strangled trade both ways with
Japan. So everything’s bound to be all
right. Mr. Lyons or Mr, Casey will tell
you so.
Rayon is one of the Japanese lines vir-
tually prohibited by recent discriminatory
tariff action. In Britain it represents a
prosperous industry where efficiently
exploited. Mr. Runciman, President of
the Board of Trade, refers to its rapid
development, and says that Britain is the
world’s third-largest manufacturer and
second-largest exporter of the stuff.
Courtaulds, a fountain of bonus shares
for some time after the war, can still see
its £1 ords. at 50s. on London ’Change.
It seems that Japanese rayon could be
taken off the prohibited list here without
endangering any British industry ; and the
duties on cotton piece goods might be
deferred to admit of Courtaulds or other
British manufacturers setting up mills in
Australia. That’s a possible way out of
the trouble with Japan.
* * * *
Japan had a heavy adverse trade bal-
ance with the world for the five months
to May 31 —£17,000,000 sterling, half as
much again as for the same period of
1935. Raw silk and flour exports fell
off; cotton and wool imports were up,
Jjs # #
The lifting of interest' rates by the
banks a few months back has already
done something towards reintroducing
balance to the credit position. In Vic-
toria during the last quarter there was a
shifting of deposits from current to
fixed accounts, and a lift in all deposits
of £1,198,000, while advances con-
tracted £58,000. So long as Governments
continue such eager borrowers, however,
there will be danger in competitive in-
terest rates.
*'* * *
At 4s. a bushel on trucks Wil-
liamstown, and for a while correspond-
ingly strong at other ports, wheat’s spec-
tacular buoyancy carried it to a six
years’ record the other day. Overseas
crop prospects were the main cause, and
the grain market is gambling on weather.
There has been a slip in quotations since.
* * * *
Chairman Massy-Greene spoke cheer-
fully about prospects of Associated Pulp
and Paper (Burnie, Tas.) in Melbourne
last week. A survey of the mill site is
now in progress, and the plant is on
order in England. The contribs., which
started off at a premium of about 9d.,
could be picked up at a discount of
Is, 9d. last week.
* * * *
For the ten months ended May 31,
butter exported from N. S. Wales totalled
30,813,0001 b., as against 57,359,0001 b. in
the same period of 1934-35. Production
in the State was lower, and consumption
was higher. Value of the exports was
£1,420,876 Australian, as against
£2,141,385. Better overseas prices made
up to some extent for lighter exports.
On June 11 Sydney export sales parity
was 1245. per hundredweight, as against
91s. a year previously.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc is paying an all-round
10 p.c. on its share-register. Operations
at Rosebery have evidently been satis-
factory despite the relapse in the price of
spelter (now £l3 Bs. 9d. a ton). Increased
output by Barrier mines has been one
factor in the enlarged earning capacity,
and the metal’s price even now is better
than the average of the immediately pre-
ceding years. E.Z.’s ords. are fetching
425. 9d., and the prefs. 445. 6d.
* * -i: *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance shares,
mentioned here as a good buy a fort-
night ago, have been sought by a buyer
who advanced his quote from 265. to
31s. Sellers want 355. The shares
are paid to 10s., and earnings last year
were equal to 20 p.c. on paid capital,
though the div. was kept down to 7 p.c.
It is a tight little show, with possibilities
of considerable expansion.
♦ * * *
David Jones ords. are back over 475.
again. The winter sale has been success-
ful, and branches have been established
at Newcastle and Cessnock. It is one of
the most popular retail stocks on ’Change
from an investor’s viewpoint.
* * * *
Australian Glass shares touched a
record price of 965. 6d. last week. It is
hard to say what is looked for now that
the annual meeting has passed without
mention of benefits additional to the
handsome 15 p.c. div. The co. is capable
of paying 20 p.c. if business conditions
remain stable. The present return is a
shade over 3.1 p.c. On 4 p.c. 1938 Con-
sols the return is 3.4 p.c. and on two-
year fixed deposits 3 p.c.
♦ * * *
It is surprising the care that has been
found necessary to save the Australian
people from themselves. It is considered
“unwise” at the moment to let the amount
of our London credit reserves be gener-
ally known; fluctuations in the amount
might, it has been averred, create appre-
hension that would lead to a flight of
capital from the country. So people have
to rest content with the assurance that
certain self-satisfied politicians are also
satisfied with the credit position. It isn’t
good enough, especially when tariffs and
agreements are monkeyed with on the
same “it’s good for you—you needn’t
worry” basis. In N. S. Wales also
“copies of regulations governing the
emergency-relief work scheme are sup-
plied to all police issuing stations ; no
copies are available for other distribu-
tion or for sale.” It is just possible that
some of those who have sparred up from
a shilling in the pound downwards for
some years now might like to know how
their benevolence is distributed. But no ;
the whither and thither of the emergency-
relief fund is one of the greatest political
mysteries of modern times,
t * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The public issue by The Argus and Austra-
lasian, Ltd., was quickly oversubscribed. The
prefs. sold on ’Change up to 245.
Mt T yell shares sold to 275. 6d.
Emperor’s announced crushing was the
lowest grade (lO.ldwt.) to date. The market
k„ v i, auuve los. tor a while, but weakened on
Friday. Loloma was firmer.
Mammoth Gold Mine, N.L., operating at
Tennant Creek, announced that the new plant
is ready for work. The water system may be
completed within a fortnight. A lot of Mel-
bourne people are in this show. The shares
were firm at 2s. Bd.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Mr. Deeds Goes to Town”
The spiritual progenitor of Mr. Deeds
was Mark Twain’s Puddenhead Wilson.
He’s a young man from the country with
simple tastes, plain convictions and a few
mild eccentricities. A legacy of twenty
million dollars brings him to New York.
The vultures get ready for the feast, but
the lamb proves unexpectedly shrewd
and wary. Yet Deeds falls for a news-
paper girl who, concealing her occupa-
tion, runs around with him getting
material for a series of articles that make
the young man appear very foolish.
When Deeds aims at giving away the bulk
of his fortune to put ruined farmers
back on the land a suit to declare him
insane is commenced. He refuses to
defend it, being disgusted with town
and all it stands for. But the newspaper
girl and even her editor (like other hard
nuts in the film he has a heart of gold)
rise up in his defence, and, his faith in
human nature restored, he addresses the
Gordon Harker in “The Amateur Gentle-
man,” at Sydney Embassy.
Court, tears the evidence against him to
shreds, wins the suit and is reconciled to
his sweetie, who always loved him truly.
The summary doesn’t do justice to a
plot which, despite its cliches, is worked
out in such intriguing fashion that in-
terest never flags, but increases right
along to the end of the story. Gary
Cooper as Deeds has a role that fits him
as neatly as a glove, Jean Arthur as the
hard-boiled female reporter is convincing
in all moods, and Douglas Dumbrille,
Ruth Donnelly and others help to make
the affair a very polished and satisfac-
tory production. At Sydney Regent.
“Dangerous Intrigue”
A famous surgeon (Ralph Bellamy)
loses his hospital job, his sweetheart, and
then his memory. He wakes up when
an accident occurs in a steel-mill where
he has got work as. a laborer. The
regular medico is absent. Bellamy
fixes up the sufferers so skilfully that the
doctor, when he arrives, offers him a job
as assistant on the spot. Accidents con-
tinue—they are part of a plot to force
the steel-mill into the hands of a com-
bine. Bellamy tracks down the wrong-
doers and wins the love of the mill
schoolmarm, a Slovakian damsel, played
by Gloria Shea. The steel-mill back-
ground is effectively sketched in, and
there are some exciting moments. Also
at the Regent.
“The Amateur Gentleman”
The best period piece that has yet
come out of an English studio. The dia-
logue, which is a feature, has been done
by Clemence Dane, and F’arnol’s novel is
proved to contain excellent film material.
Douglas Fairbanks the younger fills the
title role, Elissa Landi is the titled lady
who won his affection, and other parrs
are capably filled by Basil Sydney, Gor-
don Harker, Hugh Williams and Athole
Stewart. The costumes and manners of
the Regency period are well reproduced—
the Regent and his familiar, Beau Nash,
are often on the screen —and the Eng-
lish scenery is the real thing. Fairbanks
cuts a dashing figure. In the boxing
match, old-style, with bare knuckles, they
shape up with fists held up from the
elbow, but Fairbanks scores a k.o. in the
fourth round with a jab of a very much
later vintage. That, however, is the only
anachronism in the whole affair, the de-
tails of which have been devised on the
extensive and careful scale hitherto
peculiar, to Hollywood productions. The
denouement, with the villain’s vile plots
revealed, is an unconvincing business,
but that’s Farnol’s fault. At Sydney
Embassy.
“Twelve Good Men”
This English thriller recounts the story
of a man convicted of manslaughter
who went insane and determined to assas-
sinate all the members of the jury that
found him guilty. One of these is a
matinee idol (Henry Kendall), at whose
house, after several murders, all the
threatened persons are assembled under
police protection. Nancy O’Neill, as a
stage-struck girl whose father is one of
the jurymen, is dragged into the business
without much warrant. The thing is
better done than most previous English
efforts of the sort, but is only tepidly in-
teresting. At Sydney Embassy.
“Laburnum Grove”
This film, adapted from the Priestley
play, is marked by splendid acting, especi-
ally on the part of Edmund Gwenn. One
scene, in which Gwenn carries on a game
of bluff when confronted by an investi-
gating detective-inspector, is a gem. Sir
Cedric Hardwicke, too, gives a fascinating,
almost painfully realistic character study
of a sponging relative of pachydermatous
hide. Virginia Hopper also gives a fine
performance.
The story is that of a seemingly re-
spectable London suburban businessman,
“something in the paper-manufacturing
line,” devoted to his wife, daughter and
Basil Sydney in “The Amateur
Gentleman.”
the culture of hothouse tomatoes. One
Sunday night, at tea, when his wife is
absent, he tells everyone he is a
crook. With the law’s net drawing
tighter about him he sends his wife
and daughter (who still think it all a
joke) abroad, where he is to join them
after “fixing a few things.” The end-
ing is rather forced.
Despite the plot’s obvious flaws, it
makes great entertainment. At Sydney
Mayfair.
“Midshipman Easy”
What Captain Marryat’s part in the
script of this film may be this commen-
tator cannot guess, having long forgotten
the book, but if it is as represented per
celluloid the source of W. S. Gilbert’s
impressions about the navy (as unfolded
in the ballad about Reece, Captain R.N.,
who commanded H.M.S. Mantelpiece) is
no longer veiled in mystery. The frigate
on which young Easy (Hughie Green)
Douglas Fairbanks, the younger, in
“The Amateur Gentleman.”
gets his first sniffs of the briny is com-
manded by a mild-mannered, somewhat
tired gentleman (Roger Livesay), who,
after a long cruise and at the end of the
film, smiles delightedly at the sight of
young Easy slowly stumbling up the rig-
ging. “At last,” he says, “he has obeyed
an order!”
In the interim the youngster has
boarded and captured a Spanish frigate,
fought a duel, arrested a dangerous ban-
dit and defended the home of his sweet-
heart against tremendous odds. None
of these adventures seems even remotely
feasible. The sea scenes, coming after
such fine production achievements as
“Captain Blood” and “Mutiny on the
Bounty,” are feeble ; the members of the
crew, all save an Americanised negro
(Robert Adams) —and how he got on a
British man-o’-war is a minor mystery —
are caricatures. Master Green is a
youngster of the Bartholomew sort, and
one Freddie is enough. Love interest
(supplied by Margaret Lockwood) seems
out of place in connection with a 15-
year-old boy. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Cheer Up”
Stanley Lupino, who is by way of
being the answer to the Cockney flapper’s
prayer, and who indulges in comedy
according to a 50-year-old stage ritual,
spends over an hour in this film trying
to get someone to finance a play. The
spectacle of him being thrown out of
hotels by commissionaires soon palls.
An expensively-got-up beauty (Sally
Gray), who explains that she is penniless
and alone in a vast city, is dragged into
the fantasia by the neck to abet Mr.
Lupino, who sings on slight provocation.
Dialogue is mechanical, the laugh-seek-
ing ruses are too threadbare to raise a
smile, and the general effect is depressing.
The film seems to belong to the period
of two or three years ago, before English
studios realised that stereotyped stage
stuff falls flat as dishwater on the screen.
At Sydney Lyceum.
*'‘ Koenigsmark”
Pierre Benoit’s novel in its screen form.
The transcription has rendered the plot
somewhat sketchy, but splendid photo-
graphy, artistic settings and capable
acting by an Anglo-Continental cast have
made of it a first-class film.
The young Princess Aurora is com-
pelled for State reasons to marry the
middle-aged Grand Duke Rudolph of
Belgravia, a German principality. Dis-
couraged by his wife’s coldness, he leads
an expedition to German East Africa.
Word is received that he has died of a
fever there, and she is left to rule. Her
husband’s brother, the Archduke Fred-
erick, makes advances, but she repulses
him. Then comes a young French liter-
ary professor, and a friendship springs
up between him and the princess. Pur-
suant to his researches into the history
of the old Koenigsmark kings, he dis-
covers a secret room in the castle. Ex-
ploring, he finds Rudolph’s skeleton. The
princess and the young man join forces
against Frederick, whom they suspect of
fratricide. In the battle of wits that fol-
lows they complete the evidence against
him, but the declaration of war against
France in 1914 is imminent, and Fred-
erick orders the Frenchman’s arrest.
Aurora countermands it, conducts him to
the border, returns and denounces Fred-
erick, who suicides. The story ends with
her abdication. At Sydney Mayfair.
“Song of the Saddle”
Though the title suggests a horse opera,
this film might be termed a one-horse
opera—the hero sings one lone song in
a husky baritone. It is, nevertheless, an
exciting Western, and marks an advance
in the screen technique of Dick Foran.
The story is the hoary old-timer
about the boy whose trader-father is
killed by a gang of crooks. Then, grown
to manhood, he commences his ven-
geance, harrying the gang and despoil-
ing the leader. He cleverly arranges for
the latter mistakenly to wipe out his
chief henchman, the big shot himself
biting the dust at the end of a thrilling
coach ride.
Alma Lloyd has the easy job of look-
ing at her big, handsome hero with
shining eyes, and Charles Middleton is
a vicious-looking villain. Kenneth Harlan,
still good-looking, has slipped to a small
part as sheriff. At Sydney Capitol.
Some First Nights
An individual nearer the conditioned
ideal of the male vocalist than Richard
Crooks it would be difficult to imagine.
Six-foot-two, uncommonly handsome,
sportsman, huntsman and possessor of a
devoted wife and family, he looked round
the ocean of faces at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday night as if he loved
them all, and would do anything to
please them, even sing Bach, Haydn,
Coral Brown in “The Amateur
Gentleman.”
Beethoven, Massenet and Cesar Franck
if they wanted him to. Plenty of public
entertainers think they have this gift,
but Crooks does not have to think about
it at all. He has it. He looks as if he
hadn’t an evil thought against a single
human being, and would like to delight
everybody, and if people’s tastes are
different —well, that is delightful, too,
because then you can sing them such a
wide variety of songs, from “Per pieta”
of Stradella to “Songs My Mother Taught
Me,” that the musical critics don’t know
whether they are on their heads or
their heels. And when you are gifted
with a perfectly heavenly voice that you


A
“Still
working when
have stopped ”
keep
others
va7
v/0.7
RADIO
ND
capac^T
- \ VIBTIC^
lAMOND
S\g3tt/r
ON many a country road you see these cars of pre-
war vintage, still “in harness,” still carrying
And in many an outback farmhouse you see Diamond
Batteries, often many months old, still doing good
work in the family radio. For all their age they are
still capable of delivering a smooth unbroken flow
of silent power that will not weaken until long after
the normal replacement period is passed.
DIAMOND’S unique P 5 construction that retards the
development of the elements that cause prema-
ture decay is the secret of this “healthy old age.”
Use DIAMOND’S in your set for longer life and
consistently dependable service.
Diamond
i
Radio Batteries
and Torch Refilis
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD., 119 Hawke St., West Melbourne, C.W., Vic.
D.F-1
Enjoy your trip
Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY
Makej'Oeck Activities" Enjoyable
And Tea a Welcome Event i
Farm Wanted.
PROVED successful farmer, two teams, tw(
sets plant, deposit, labor, an assured inconu
later, wishes buy cleared wheat and sheep farn
1750 acres, from 30/- an acre, by next year
—Apply Box 8, Speed, Victoria.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 70 of 1936.
TO WILLIAM HENRY JAMES formerly o‘
Cloncurry in the State of Queensland
Painter.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Townsville by ELIZA
JAMES your wife in which she claims a dis-
solution of her marriage with you and by her
petition filed in the said Court she alleges
that you deserted her and such desertion has
continued for five years and upwards AND
IT HAS BEEN ORDERED that service of the
writ and petition on you be effected by post-
ing copies thereof in the Registry of the said
Court and by the insertion of this advertise-
ment twice each in the Sydney Bulletin and
:n a newspaper published at Lismore in the
State of New South Wales. If you desire to
defend this action you must within thirty days
from the date of the last act done in pursuance
of the said order enter an appearance at the
Registry of the said Court AND in defauP
of such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.
DATED at Townsville this Fourteenth day
of July, 1936.
W. M. DOYLE,
Acting-Registrar.
WILSON, RYAN & GROSE, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff, Denham Street, Townsville.
Simplicity
itseli to fill!
% !***%* y.f toil
%
**
{~\NE ! two ! full! !! Yes, it’s just as simple
that. And the mechanism of the Leverless
is so strong and sound that it cannot go wrong !
See it demonstrated at any good Stationers or
Jewellers —soon!
Prices. —The Leverless (‘ Quick-fill’) Swan from
21/-. The Visofil (‘ Big-fill’) Swan .32/6. Ladies’
Size, 27/6. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE LEVERLESS
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAN' INK
A. 4.36
can control as easily as you can your
motor-car, you can safely take liberties
with the tastes of one-half of your
audience while you are fulfilling the
hopes of the other half, then making
amends by delighting the first half and
boring the second. And then, since you
feel that people are so nice, you can
afford to turn your back on the major
and most expensive part of your audi-
ence and sing directly to the delightful
people in the organ loft.
Previous vocalists have done the same
thing, and only given people the uncom-
fortable feeling that they are on the one
hand being irreverent to high art and
on the other treating their audience with
contempt by singing down to it. This
isn’t the impression Crooks conveys at all.
He really likes singing “Macushla,” so,
however well he sings the classics —and
he sings them magnificently—he will leave
Melbourne’s musical intelligentsia in a
vague state of alarm as to the security
of their artistic ideals. The Taits might
make more money if they would give
Crooks to the people in two sessions
of ninety minutes each, the first session
classical and the second popular. By the
end of a fortnight, the popular session
would be empty and the classical crowded
out, for human nature aspires always
towards the best; but in the meantime
there would be double the audiences for
Richard Crooks.
*l* 'l* *l* -I*
Much of the charm of “Patience,”
which figures in the Gilsullivan revival
at Melb. His Majesty’s, is the subtle con-
trast between dashing dragoons and love-
sick maidens limply hanging on the
words of “Fleshy Poet” Bunthorne. But
the poet is a fake, his “O, hollow, hol-
low, hollow” verses are insincere ; he is
in love with a very practical milk-
maid and has been caught in her dairy
“eating butter with a tablespoon.”
Winifred Lawson captures the dainty
graces of milkmaid Patience. Evelyn
Hall attunes her sense of comedy to her
commanding deep-toned presence, with
the result that Lady Jane is a lively flesh-
and-blood characterisation. With his
shapely calves, buckled shoes and little
snippet of a beard, Ivan Menzies as Bun-
thorne has the laughs falling easily
around him. Among other supporters
are Gregory Stroud as the stern Idyllic
Poet, Richard Watson as Col. Calverley,
Clifford Cowley as Major Murgatroyd,
Vincent Mac Murray as the Duke of
Dunstable, the sweetly-singing rapturous
maidens and chorus of their lovelorn
sisters.
♦I- 4* 4- 4*
Winifred Lawson gave her best per-
formance of the season in “lolanthe,”
revived at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, last
week. As Phyllis, the ward-in-Chancery
in shepherdess dress, she was dainty and
captivating; her voice was at its best,
and she acted with a vivacious charm.
Evelyn Hall was a notable fairy queen
(though one old-timer was heard to pro-
test that she was “not nearly as big as
Alice Barnett”). She looked truly regal,
and her rich contralto was used to good
effect in “Fare Thee Well, Attractive
Stranger,” and “O Foolish Fay.”
Eileen Kelly was a sadly-sweet
lolanthe, Ivan Menzies (Lord Chancel-
lor), dapper and nimble-footed, scored
heavily with “Said I to Myself, Said I,”
and (with Bernard Manning and God-
frey Stirling) “He Who Shies at Such a
Prize.” In this number the trio seemed
to be having a sly thrust at those who
have objected to the introduction of
buffoonery into G. and S. opera, and it is
worthy of comment that it received the
loudest and most spontaneous applause.
Gregory Stroud was Strephon, un-
happy offspring of a mesalliance between
a fairy and a barrister. He invested the
part with life and vigor, though it is only
fair to him to say that he showed no
marked resemblance to either parent.
4* -I- *1- -I-
Dorothy Helmrich, a singer who
returns to Australia under A.B.C.
auspices after having laid a safe foun-
dation for her career abroad, gave two
recitals in Sydney last week, some por-
tions of which were broadcast. On the
first evening Miss Helmrich seemed to
be suffering from a cold, and her sing-
ing, though it won admiration for its
good taste and musicianship, was not im-
pressive, To the second recital the
mezzo-soprano brought a better voice.
She is a singer’s singer, delighting in the
vocal subtleties of Mahler, Brahms,
Erich Wolff and Respighi. She has a fine
control of production and a strong feel-
ing for beautiful melodic curves, but her
art is on a miniature scale. This com-
mentator listened to the broadcasts, since
the ether is the medium through which
most Australian music-lovers will be re-
introduced to the singer, and was dis-
appointed. Possibly Miss Helmrich is
one of those singers whose notes are im-
paired by translation through radio.
Adelaide Repertory’s latest double bill
is a blend, sound but jolly. “The Lady
from Alfaqueque,” from the Spanish of
Quintero, is a city matron (Beryl Kook),
a ready prey to any sponger coming
from her native village, while her hus-
band (L. B. Mathews) is sarcastic but
amiable ; both finely played. A young
poet (Cedric Hele), while in hiding with
them, captivates everyone in sight—nice
girl (Ruby Skinner), conceited maidser-
vant (Betty Diamond), and even, by mere
gestures across the rooftops, a neighbor’s
daughter—until given away by the gar-
rulous Phyllis Simpson. A pleasant
modern comedy, produced by Thelma
Baulderstone and well played; Francis
King, a newcomer, added local color as
an old-fashioned Spaniard so courtly as
to become a nuisance. In the other
play, “Solomon’s Folly,” Sydney Box
has audaciously debunked that monarch.
To him (James Dowling) comes Mimi
Mattin as a finely seductive Queen of
Sheba. But all his wisdom, all his
Proverbs, come from Sofar (Stephen
Church); and when that scribe recites
to Sheba slabs from his torrid love-
poem which we now know as the Song
of Solomon, and later the King starts to
read it to her as his own, she realises
the position, and carries Sofar off to
Africa, bluffing through on a royal edict
which simple Solomon has sealed with-
out looking at it. George Shaw pro-
ducer ; and an enjoyable evening.
•I* 4* •I* 4*
For all her many years “Rose Marie”
tripped out for five nights in the com-
pany of Sydney’s Langlea Operatic
Society with the blitheness of youth. The
group possesses some pleasant voices,
and a company of 60 revelled in Friml’s
catchy airs. Principal honors fell to
Merle Binskin, her dancing ability im-
parting additional charm to the wild-
cat Indian girl Wanda, Dorothy Mere-
dith sang the title-role in pleasing style,
Maurice Doyle baritoned agreeably as
Jim Kenyon, and Arthur Foy found a
congenial niche as bluff Sergeant Malone.
Comedy was safe in the hands of Lady
Jane Pearl Wiber and Ernest Jackson.
Current Artbursts
At a guess, the average age of mem-
bers exhibiting under the banner of the
New Melbourne Art Club is the middle
twenties, but it is more difficult to assess
the average amount of knowledge of ait
which is hung on the walls of Melbourne
Athenaeum. Neil Douglas’s “Snake-
moss and Devileye” is a spirited piece oL
color and has claims towards design, but
several of his studies are uncontrolled
color experiments or queer adventures
verging on surrealism. Roy Dalgarno
uses charcoal for architectural subjects,
and includes some paintings which
appear to have been done in a hurry.
Edward Heffernan is making progress
along safer lines; a portrait is included
among his attractive landscapes. Doro-
thea Keeling’s flair for design is seen in
several exhibits ; she also shows some in-
teresting portraits. Anne Montgomery is
working under a distinctly Japanese in-
fluence: there is charm about her head
study of a modern Miss Nippon; in
her land- and riverscapes also there is
the same treatment of the single branch
or of islands apparently poised in space
as is used by Japanese artists. Helen
Ogilvie shows the well-executed wood-
engravings for which she is known,
and Jessie Mackintosh is decorative in a
number of color prints. Edith Moore
has a liking for the grotesque, and seems
to get an impish delight in exaggerating
the ugliness of her figures. Nutter Buza-
cott is not fastidious about either bal-
ance or design, and Murray Griffin is
worried by no scruples regarding slam-
ming on thick paint. Elizabeth Pater-
son’s exhibits include two fans, and in-
vitee Marjorie Rankin shows a trio of
sketches.
As anybody who has organised a
school break-up concert knows, there is
a dearth of action songs of the sort re-
quired for such a purpose—ditties with
easy, tuneful music, featuring easily
recognisable characters for which cos-
tumes can be cheaply improvised. Allan
and Co. have come to the rescue with a
series of 16 tunes, allied to words that
go with Indians, Japanese, cowboys,
Dutch children, bakers, railway men,
pirates, gipsies, policemen, sailors, Irish
colleens, little mothers and so forth. With
one exception (an immortal air by Mon-
tague Ewing had to be used for the
policemen’s song) the music and in every
case the words are by Australians. Edith
Harrhy, Mabel Down, Alfred Wheeler,
Georgia Evans and Ina Mornament are
the composers, and they have produced
good rhythmic melodies with accompani-
ments as easy as they are effective.
Printing is a credit to the publishers. The
songs sell for a shilling each, and they’re
good value.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
4
!> ! f
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
123-133 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfas*- from.. 12/6
‘Phone: F 414! (10 lines).
m
m
f^as^
gd
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A word of commendation from Lieu-
tenant-Governor Street’s wife as to the
manner in which they are making use of
“this freedom” put an extra sparkle into
the eye of members of the Red Cross
Younger Set at their sixth annual dinner.
And indeed Authority should be pleased
with these young people. They make
themselves responsible for a yearly £3OO
for Red Cross funds. In the year that
has just gone they actually made £315.
Starting with 69 members they now have
a roll-call of 382. Most of these seemed
to be present at the birthday party in
David Jones’s. President Jean Bell, who
welcomed the guests, also read a report
of the year’s good deeds. Philip Street’s
lady handed deputy-chairman E. S.
Marks the cheque. Mollie Rolleston pro-
posed “Our Guests” in a graceful
speech ; Bonte Dick received a trophy for
netting the year’s greatest number of
members. Everybody received a piece of
the birthday cake.
Denise Dettmann set out for Oxford
on Saturday amidst a mountain of
flowers, boxes of chocolates, books, silk
stockings and good wishes. One lovely
offering was a cellophane box of lily-of-
the-valley and violets. This popular girl
had had everything in the way of expen-
sive travelling bags and trunks thrust on
her—even a morocco leather dressing-
case ; but in addition she insisted on
taking with her the old trunk in which
her father had carried his books to
Oxford. A new and shiny typewriter and
a stack of textbooks were other bits of
equipment, for Denise will have to study
for at least part of the voyage.
The Musical Association burgeoned
into orange Iceland poppies on green
check teacloths for its tea party to
Dorothy Helmrich. Dorothy, just recov-
ering from the seasonal cold, was
wrapped in a coat of black cloth, banded
and collared in seal. Her hat, a graceful
variation of the forage cap, ran up to a
peak at the right side. The Conser-
vatorium’s director, Dr. Bainton, renewed
an acquaintance very pleasantly made
when the Sydney girl was giving recitals
in the North of England. In the crowds
sipping tea and applauding the eulogistic
remarks made by A.B.C. director
Cleary, Faunce Allman and Lawrence
Godfrey Smith, dress highlights were
struck by Mrs. Cleary’s squirrel cape,
Mrs. Harold Bott’s fine white woollen
jumper with its polo collar, Mrs. Marr
Thompson’s two shades of blue, and the
ice-blue of Mrs. Hope Gibson’s angora
suit.
Once again the sons and daughters of
France have celebrated the Fall of the
Bastille. In Sydney the Tricolor flew
triumphant over an afternoon reception
at the Darling Point home of Consul-
General Suzor. In the evening it was
entwined with the flags of England and
Australia to decorate Hordern Brothers’
Florentine ballroom for the French
Alliance Ball.
Sir Hugh Poynter is this year’s presi-
dent of the French Alliance, so he and
Lady Poynter greeted the importants and
made a very graceful job of it. With
the arrival of the Consul-General Suzors,
out flashed “The Marseillaise,” and at
the stirring notes the French flags on the
wall and the little Tricolors on the
table ceased to be so much still-life and
became vibrant.
Lady Poynter’s gold lame frock, her
orchids and diamond coronet were worthy
the occasion. Mrs. Suzor, France’s chief
citizeness in Sydney, wore black crepe
thickly run with gold, and was given a
posy of red and white carnations tied
with blue ribbons. Jeanne.Suzor’s white
crepes had a little pleated cape, the train
of Jocelyn Poynter’s black velvet dress
glittered with rhinestones and rainbow
sequins flashed on the pale pink chiffons
worn by the Anderson lady, who came
with her knight Francis. Dorothy Trem-
lett’s magnolia velvets were worn with
violets.
The afternoon reception was almost
entirely a Consular and French com-
munity celebration. The baskets of
flowers in the reception-rooms were tied
with tricolor ribbons ; the flowers were
in tones of blue, white and red. Mrs.
Suzor’s frock was richly black and gold.
The skirt was slightly trained, and the
hip-length coat was straight in line and
was fastened at the neckline with a
diamond brooch. Daughter Jeanne, who
helped her parents to entertain, wore
deep-blue taffeta patterned with gold
spots. Its sleeves were puffed and it had
a fichu collar.
Dorothy Helmrich, back in Sydney
after an absence of several years, is pleas-
ing her recital audiences and her radio
listeners with her suave rendering of
Handel and Purcell and suchlike leisured
composers. She is at home with the most
advanced of the moderns, too, and from
a woman’s point of view her stage dress-
ing strikes the right note of poise with-
out pose. One sculped frock of magnolia
satin, with graceful shoulder scarf and
a narrow belt of semi-precious stones
will be remembered.
Last week might have been called a
Dorothy Helmrich week. Every day
some bright ribbon of gaiety fluttered in
her honor. To begin with, there was the
cocktail-sherry party in the Gloucester
room of the Australia. This seems to
have been given its name because the
hangings are of the green now known
as Gloucester. A camouflaged bit of
furniture was the polished chiffonier
which, opening up under the smile of
the waiter, revealed not dirty dogs like
Shakspeare’s Richard of Gloucester, but
hot dogs sizzling among a lot of succu-
lent neighbors. Dorothy’s blue caped
suit was attractive in cut and in its frond-
like tiers of self fringe. Her hat was
small, peaked and very smart.
Singer Gladys Moncrieff was there, her
good features and gleaming smile set off
by one of the new vagabond felts. Mrs.
Walter Swinson’s millinery always sug-
gests one of those smart little shops in
Rome —this time its color was rose-red.
Mrs. Harold Bott, in a suit of Scottish
blue-green frieze, Jocelyn Poynter, in
black, Lady Poynter, in brown, the Con.
director Baintons and the Bertie Kellys
were there. So were all the papas of the
A.8.C., from Commissioner Cleary down.
Howard Carr, off to Melbourne, looked
in to say “Hail and Farewell! ” Jack
Griffiths, who will manage Dorothy’s
tour, was among the smiling groups.
Jack, who has since boyhood managed
artists of note through Australia and
Maoriland, has friendships from Cairns
to The Bluff, not excluding Broken Hill.
Mrs. Norman Lowe and Miss
Josephine Marks, who were the presi-
dent and organising secretary for the
Authors and Artists’ Ball, were the guests
of the F.A.W. last week. The Shalimar
Cafe brimmed with Fellows and fellow-
ship, and laudations to the money-weav-
ing ability of the two ladies met with
loud applause. The ball cleared £95.
Elocutionist Montgomery Stewart was
orator in chief. He rounded off his re-
marks by handing to Mrs. Lowe a
specially-bound volume of F.A.W. presi-
dent Dal by Davison’s Man-Shy, and to
Miss Marks a presentation copy of Mary
Gilmore’s Under the Wilgcs. Both re-
cipients, blushing rosily, voiced their
thanks, Mrs. Norman Lowe in black-and-
gold net wrapped in a sable cape, Miss
Marks in lacquered satin caped in
squirrel. Graceful and grateful words
were also spoken by Mary Gilmore.
Then everyone settled down to listen to
Hilary Lofting’s address on the poet
Chris Brennan. The whole ended up
not on the old recipe of pistols for two
and coffee for one, but coffee for all
and pistols for none.
There were 60 women delegates to the
annual conference of the State’s Agricul-
tural Bureau at Hawkesbury College.
There were visitors, too, from all over
the State and some from across the
border. If you were not of the honor-
able company of balloon-tyred travellers
you went by old-fashioned drag from
the station to the college. Aileen Fitz-
Patrick and a bevy of second-year
students of social study and training
were among the crowds of Sydney visi-
tors. One who went on business intent
was Winifred Stenhouse, of the Memorial
College of Household Arts and Crafts at
Kirribilli. Her address on “The Square
Meal” was a feature of the first day’s
programme in the women’s section. This
was given in the science room, but the
lecturer wisely handed out her know-
ledge in terms of the common larder.
Cheery Lorna Byrne, of the depart-
ment, being absent on her travels in
Europe, Mrs. Keith McDonald, of Dun-
robin, Tottenham, acted as deputy, and
with Mrs. W. W. Watson, of Wood-
bine, Tichborne, welcomed the women
delegates. Homecraft and the problems
of seed and soil kept the conferrers busy
from Tuesday till Thursday, but on
Thursday night the festive note was
struck, and there was a dance in the
Memorial Hall of the college. Sister
Parry, of the St. John Ambulance, con-
tributed a talk on kitchen medicines.
A note from Australian pianist Teddy
Cahill tells of a flight to Scotland to
coincide a series of recitals with the
grouse. For his concert in the Cinema
Hall of Australia House on July 1, Teddy
had the patronage of Princesses Beatrice
and Helena Victoria. Other great ones in-
terested were the Dowager Marchioness
of Linlithgow (who was in Australia as
Lady Hopetoun), the Earl and Countess
of Stradbroke and the Viscount and Vis-
countess Elibank, who will shortly be
coming this way to Maoriland. After
Scotland the pianist will fill engagements
in Ostend and in Egypt, and may look in
on Australia for Christmas.
Jeanne Suzor, the attractive daughter
of France’s Consul-General, took her
place in the July 14 celebrations. Photo,
from Dorothy Welding.
The Sydney P.E.N. Club is congratu-
lating itself on its choice of a delegate
to the International Conference of
P.E.N. Clubs in Buenos Ayres. Very ex-
cited at the prospect of the unusual
voyage, Ruth Bedford starts off to-day
in the Monterey on the first stage of her
long trek. At Los Angeles she is billed
to race off the ship and catch a steamer
which sails that same day for Panama ;
there she will spend a while gazing at the
canal and its workings until a ship
happens along to take her the last few
thousand miles. Secretary of the local
P.E.N., Ruth is also a well-known
poetess, a volume of her collected poems
being now in the press. She should be
able to give a good account of herself
among the literary bigwigs who will be
gathered together from the four corners
of the earth. As a granddaughter of the
late Chief Justice Alfred Stephen, ability
is part of her heritage.
About 60,000 went out to the foot-
ball on Saturday; and the girls were
there. Rugged and coated, carrying the
übiquitous thermos with a drop of liquid
comfort to keep out the raw wind, Miss
and Mrs. Sydney saw it through. The
only people who didn’t turn a hair were
some visitors from Maoriland. Maybe it
seemed a fine spring day to them. Filrri-
actor Victor Jory went out to see the fun ;
so did the Gordon Shaws from the
Monaro, where they make the winds like
Saturday’s. In the evening there was a
dance in the University Union, when the
English and Australian teams were the
guests of honor. This was the University’s
football club’s dance, and H. L. Mc-
Gloskey, its president, and Mrs. McGlos-
key entertained the official guests —foot-
ball notables.
Almost £lOOO in gate-money was taken
on the opening day of the Grafton Cup
meeting, and that’s a record. Visitors
dropped in from all points of the com-
pass, some of them arriving by ’plane.
Many Sydneyites went north to the plea-
sant river town, and among them were
the Acting-Premier Bruxner couple, who
were important people at the Race Ball.
Ivy Pearce, who had flown from Bris-
bane to Grafton, was another who en-
joyed the gaieties. The Race Ball, held at
the Trocadero Dance Palais, the C.W.A.
Ball at the Criterion Hall, the Movie and
Golf Club dances were other fixtures in
this maddest, merriest week of all the
year.
The Russian ballet company that will
be with us later in the year has an-
nounced “Petrouschka” among its
works. This lent an added interest to its
performance last Saturday by the First
Australian Ballet. The original costumes
and settings by Benois had been carried
out by Frank Chamberlain and Colin
Mclntyre. Moya Beaver, light as a pink
sherbet, blew about the Con. stage as
the heartless little ballerina who laughs
at the poor clown and is won by the
blackamoor, puppets like herself of a
travelling sideshow. The stage was gay
with color. Here was a group of Cos-
sacks, their impressive boots white or
red ; there was a dancing bear ; here were
girls in the gala costumes the peasants
wore before the Soviet regime. It was
a rose of carnival plucked before the war
and immortalised by the music of Strav-
insky. losephine Heine was a pretty
Queen of the Hours. Barbara McPhail
was Helen of Troy, and Phyllis Wardrop
Cleopatra in the Walpurgis Nights ballet;
as for Betty Ainsworth, she was Phryne,
she was one of the grooms, she was one
of the Hours, and appeared in an Indian
ballet.
Perhaps the three little Hallings will
become as starry a trio in the musical
world as the Cherniavsky brothers.
Young Pat, the violinist, made an appear-
ance with the A.B.C. orchestra last week,
sympathetic Bernard Heinze conducting.
This 10-year-old Sydney boy played the
First Movement of Mozart’s Concerto
in A with great charm. Peter, an older
brother, is the ’cellist, and sister Suzanne,
the pianist of the gifted three. Gerald
Walenn is the teacher of the boy violinist.
A note from Jo Fallon in Los Angeles
tells Sydney friends the good news of his
convalescence after his serious accident
earlier in the year. This necessitated 13
separate blood transfusions and a com-
plicated orthopaedic operation performed
by a surgeon who flew from the Mayo
Institute, nearly 3000 miles away. Jo
had 101 weeks flat on his back in hos-
pital. Two friends with whom he was
riding were killed.
Sydney’s old friend Harry Tighe sends
a long letter from his flat in Montpelier-
row, Knightsbridge. The building is
over 200 years old, and was once the
stables of an old manor house, long de-
molished. Harry’s sitting-room and
dining-room were the hay loft. He has
talked to Lady Allendale and Dorothy
Gill, who both have pleasant memories
of Australia. He tells of lunch parties
at Lady Benson’s, and afternoon recep-
tions at Mrs. Alec Tweedie’s very
modern and extensive flat, with its roof
garden on the top of Devonshire House
above the roar of Piccadilly.
Don Finley had a great success with
his exhibition of new designs at Derry
and Toms. This exhibition, suggested
and managed by Don, was under the
auspices of the British Drama League
and the National Theatre Appeal Com-
mittee. Bernard Shaw was one of the
notables at the opening.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
tn two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
fg
WILCOX. SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
lIMITEn INSURANCE
UHII LU company ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862,
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM EDWARD MILLER, who was last
heard of in 1922 at The Branch, Stroud, via
Vooral (or Booral), New South Wales, where
he was employed as a farm manager, but who
came from Cropwell Butler, Leicestershire,
England, or, if the said William Edward Miller
were married, the whereabouts of his wife
and/or children, is asked to communicate with
MESSRS. CARLILE, McLEAN, SCANNELL
& WOOD, Solicitors, Queen Street, Hastings,
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand.
INFORMATION is sought as to THOMAS
JOSEPH REIDY, formerly of New Zealand,
who was last heard of at Barcaldine, Queens-
land, in 1891. Anyone knowing anything of
his history please communicate with MESSRS.
RAMSAY & HAGGITT, Dunedin, New Zea-
land, Solicitors for his relatives?
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
On July 14, 1789, the Bastille fell and
on July 14, 1936, our French community
went to the Alliance Fran?aise Ball in the
lower Town Hall, where Madame
Cockerton and some other committee
folk pinned tricolor rosettes on every
lapel or shoulder strap.
Madame Cockerton, who was once
more secretary of the dance, wore navy
taffeta and a rooster comb of tortoise-shell
placed like a half moon across the side
of her head. The Lady Mayoress ad-
justed her sage-green train to the dancing
steps of several Consuls. Madame
Claudon wore a gown of pink taffeta, its
full short sleeves pressed towards the
shoulders. Mrs. Vanderkelen contrasted
royal-blue with petunia-shaded chiffon,
Mrs. J. A. Watson was in damson-red
velvet and Mrs. Maurice Belz chose an
unusual white frock of starched crochet
lace. Margaret Knight’s pink satin was
sprinkled with diminutive flowers, and
Mrs. John Dye chose silver buckles and
pink roses as a sideline for her pale-blue
candlewick cloque. She would like to
turn back the calendar for the last five
years, for she and her husband, the
American Consul, have made such good
friends in Melbourne that they received
with regret the news of their transfer to
the West Indies.
At the P.L.C. Ball fifteen debs, made
their curtsies to Doris Moore, the newly-
elected president of the Old Collegians’
Association. Burneice Swaine, who
always works hard for the success of the
annual school dance, was absent through
illness, but Coralie Gardiner, in black
chiffon with pink rosebuds in her hair,
was a busy ticket sec. Dorothy Ander-
son, in black velvet with a gold cord
swathed round her waist, presented the
debs., who with their partners danced a
charming old-world waltz.
Beth Watson in old-rose and blue-shot
taffeta, Elsie McLachlan in turquoise and
Alison Cook in jubilee-blue velvet shared
committee responsibilities. Dorothy Mc-
Donald manipulated a trained blue gown
and Evelyn Duncan, also in blue, chose
the elaboration of a perky little basque.
Rita Scheele placed a halo wreath round
her head, twisted her hair into a knot
on the nape of her neck and danced
in ciel-blue sunray pleatings. Motifs of
emerald green broke the all-white of
Mrs. Gilbert Crawford’s silver lame.
Mrs. Russell Lamble rustled black
taffeta, Margaret Wilson wore Marina-
green crepe cut with classic simplicity,
and a brief velvet jacket was an accessory
to Mrs. A. L. Dugard’s aquamarine
frock.
The Grenadier Guards Band crowded
the Town Hall; Menuhin packed the
lofty building ; but for Richard Crooks’s
first concert the folk who asked for ad-
mission constituted a record. Some sat
on the steps, a few stood all night and
others squeezed up on school forms at
the back of the balcony between steam
heaters but also between gale-making
ventilators.
Under the spell of films, radio and
gramophones, hero-worship (or is it fun-
damentally curiosity?) goes to extra-
ordinary limits. The most expensive
orchids with a month’s well-preserved
life still ahead of them swooned and
died in the crush after the concert; bar-
gain sale, football scrum or seething mass
of the intelligentsia —it was all the same
to the orchids; they were squashed, and
that was the end of them. The exit was
like a bottle-neck, for the people who
had got out wouldn’t move off into the
street. The middle part of the stairway
was kept clear for Mr. Crooks, who
wears the latest fashion in evening
clothes with sleeves and trousers cut very
wide, his wife and daughter (no one
knows which is which, for at a glance
they look exactly the same age), pianist
Frederick Schauwecker and one or two
of the Taits.
Crooks has the manner of a master
showman. After his first song, Bach’s
“If Thou Be Near,” he waited for all
late-comers to get themselves seated, and
for several numbers he turned his back
on the vast hall, addressing his liquid
notes to stage and organ loft. He sang
“The King” twice very softly at the be-
ginning of the concert and again at the
end, when the audience joined in with
Leslie Curnow and the organ. Another
point of showmanship was the dimming
of the lights for three-quarters of the
programme and turning them full on for
the final modern English group.
The audience was representative of
every type of dress sensibility. Beauteous
pictures were provided by Mrs. Charles
Nodrum in her twinkly tiara and Mrs.
Raymond Lambert, looking her very best
in tea-rose chiffon and gardenias in her
hair. Glimpses were caught of Cr. and
Mrs. Edgar Morton ; of tall Keith Aikman
and his wife, who was wrapped in broad-
tail cloak ; the H. P. Ogilvie couple and
daughter Jean ; the Len Buxtons, she in
parchment lace and a little white ermine
coat, and Betty Kidd, swathed in hibis-
cus-red velvet; and Eileen Ward’s white
camellias were visible at head level
through the smoke haze in the interval.
Among others who passed in and out of
the foyer were Mrs. J. L. Stein, the
Sladen Gibsons and Mr. and Mrs. Len
Voss Smith, she in rush-green velvet and
a squirrel coatee.
Herewith a Broothorn portrait of
Helen, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Bill Andrews, of Koraleigh, N.S.W.
Helen left Melbourne Grammar School
last year. She rides and plays games,
as do most girls who come from country
homes, but she is something else far
more unusual, the owner of a racehorse
which cost her only a shilling. King Siris
became her property three years ago at
Flemington when his owner, F. P. Smith,
disgusted at his form, said to his young
schoolgirl friend: “Well, if he doesn’t get
placed to-day you can have him for a
bob.” Thus she acquired a steed which
has since justified its existence with a
few placings, a win at Moonee Valley
and another win at Ascot.
The rapidity with which the young
things grow up and smile upon the world
as their own particular oyster is a
breathless and often a worrying process
for mothers and fathers, who must go
out and about with more vigor than ever.
Three sets of parents watched pretty
daughters share a coming-out party at
No. 9 one evening last week. Mary
Stephens was the only member of the
trio to digress from traditional white ;
her frock and shirred capelet were of
mist-blue tulle and her hair was a high
coronet of organdie flowers. Joan
Leitch’s gold-speckled ivory taffeta gown
was cut with bouffant skirt. Helen
Hockey, also in white taffeta, used gar-
denias for her hair, her wristband and to
tuck into her corsage.
Helen’s mother, Mrs. F. Hockey, wore
a long shoulder drape to her green gown,
and a cluster of peonies glowed vividly
at her throat. Graceful scarf draperies
were also chosen by Mrs. L. V.
Stephens, whose color scheme was
Chinese blue and fuchsia. Mrs. Leitch’s
pale-lilac gown, with its tiered and
trained skirt, was elaborated with silver
flowers. As well as the flock of very
young things hosts and hostesses invited a
number of their own friends to share in
the rejoicings.
Mr. and Mrs. Glanville Hicks are re-
ceiving congratulations on the success of
daughter Peggy, whose Royal College
of Music travelling scholarship will take
her to Budapest and Vienna to study
musical composition. Well-established
composers are watching with interest this
young Australian, who has for four years
in succession won the Carlotta Rowe
scholarship for composition.
Miss Hicks, who is an old girl of
Clyde, shares a flat in London with her
architect brother Garth. The pair, when
possible, arrange to take their holidays
together; one such trip was to Spain,
where Peggy absorbed color, atmosphere
and historical associations with such
success that she was able to interpret her
impressions in an ambitious Spanish suite
in five movements. Among her English
compositions, many of which necessi-
tated research, is an opera based on the
life of Caedmon.
Three generations were represented in
the audience at the Garrick last week
when St, Catherine’s pupils played Mrs.
Steele Mackaye’s dramatised version of
“Pride and Prejudice.” The school-
girls who filled several rows of seats were
not dressed in the simple short white
frocks and sashes which their mothers
remembered as their party attire; they
had real evening frocks to their toes, or
at least their ankles, and velvet evening
cloaks or white bunny capes. Long plaits
and hair ribbons tied in butterfly bows,
the only relics of other years which the
modern schoolgirl permits to survive,
were seen as often as shingles or bobs.
The play, in aid of the Queen Victoria
Hospital, was well produced by Nancy
Ford. Among the vendors or buyers of
flowers in the foyer were Mrs. E. F.
Harrison, a-glitter with sequins ; Mr. and
Mrs. Scott Lang, whose Diana played
the part of the stilted Mr. Darcy ; the
Norman Mackintoshes, who also had two
young daughters on the other side of the
footlights ; and Mrs. Roy Stephens, in a
field-flower frock with pearls in her hair.
Mrs. Derek Mollison, who wrapped black
velvet over a tomato-shaded gown, was
occupied with the disposal of chocs, and
home-made sweets. Mrs. Eric Duckett
was noticeable for the silver leaves in her
hair and her white fur cape, with its
border of sable. Bessie Byrne wore gold
lame and a white fox fur, and Betty
Stewart yielded to a Quaker impulse in
the stiff pique collar which went with her
black velvet frock.
Mrs. Archie Michaelis, glimpsed here
by a Dickinson-Monteath camera, is
president of the committee which is offer-
ing a forty-eight hours’ cruise at Earl’s
Court during August. The indoor enter-
tainment, well salted with nautical-atmos-
phere, is in aid of the Balaclava and East
St. Kilda Free Kindergarten, the Alfred,
Children’s and Eye and Ear Hospitals.
There are to be dances “on deck,” a
bridge party, all manner of cruise games
for land or sea and a Saturday afternoon
for young folks. Mr. and Mrs.
Michaelis have three daughters at Mel-
bourne Grammar School. It was the
eldest, Mary, who, hearing “children’s”
party mentioned, suggested that “school-
boys and schoolgirls’ ” fixture would be
in every way more suitable for the
Saturday attraction. Her idea was
adopted, and sub-debs, and lads who are
yet legally entitled to own a car license
need not fear the stigma of . the nursery.
Money is coming in so satisfactorily
for the Women's College that a tender
at £9BOO has been let for the first wing.
The appeal was launched only a few
weeks ago, but the organiser, Mrs, M.
M. Phillips, has been doing spadework
for some time. The mites mount up in
a most gratifying manner. For instance,
2119 graduates have contributed £l4OO,
girls’ schools are making special efforts
to collect funds and a series of lectures
and concerts is being very well
patronised.
The last lecture, on “Women Under
Dictatorship,” given by McMahon Ball,
packed the large ballroom at Green-
knowe. Without committing himself to
comment Mr. Ball stated his facts in a
lucid manner and finished up with a sug-
gestion that a Women’s College might
be “a last repository of culture.” A suc-
cessful man has no time to be educated:
he must acquire a smattering of technical
knowledge or business methods in the
shortest possible time. Completing an arts
course won’t buy him bread and butter.
Sex equality, always a good subject for
a debate, came up last week when a
deputation of women teachers made six
requests to the Minister for Education.
Dr. Harris’s argument that men must be
given jobs in preference to women so
that they’ll marry brought from Miss
Patterson the reply that a large percentage
of women earning money have depen-
dants or “have to help at home.”
Constance Duncan, sec. of the Bureau
of Social and International Affairs, is off
to Yosemite National Park. Such a
romantic-sounding destination gives one
the impression of a delightful holiday,
but the conclusion is misleading. Miss
Duncan is such a busy and efficient per-
son that no one who has worked with her
can imagine her in a state of complete
relaxation. Moreover, the reason of her
trip is business, for she is a member of
the Australian delegation to the confer-
ence of the Institute of Pacific Relations.
Before embarking on her Melbourne
job three years ago Miss Duncan spent
10 years in Japan, where she filled secre-
tarial offices for the Y.W.C.A. This work
also sounds picturesque, but it calls for
tact, special organising ability and a brain
capable of mastering a particularly diffi-
cult language. During the first two years
she was in Japan she spent the major
portion of every day studying and at-
tending a language school, for she had
to undertake reading and writing as well
as speaking. The Y.W.C.A. in Tokio is
a large modern building with a cafe-
teria, residential quarters for a few mem-
bers (often foreign visitors of middle
age) and facilities for teaching young
Japanese girls all sorts of modern ac-
complishments, such as typing on fierce-
looking Japanese machines containing an
overwhelming number of characters.
The girls enjoy the advantages of a fine
swimming pool, white-tiled, long and
deep, and complete with springboards
and hot and cold showers.
Mrs. Doris Campbell writes of the fun
she has been having in South America.
In Buenos Ayres she often went to the
races. At one meeting the favorite got
a bad start, so the race was run over
again, but he didn’t make the most of
his opportunities, for he came nowhere.
The meeting started so late and took so
long that the last event was run in moon-
light. Mrs. Campbell often sallied abroad
from her hotel for meals ; one restaurant
which she particularly liked was called
“The Tin Kettle.” Another, “The
Chicken House,” emphasised its name
with a display of poultry sizzling on spits.
South America, distant only three weeks
as the gull flies, is so inaccessible from
Australia that Mrs. Campbell’s letter,
posted on May 12, didn’t reach Mel-
bourne until last week.


QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
NOW
everybody needs this
biggest money-saving remedy for
Coughs, Colds,
CROUP. BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, ETC.
Your family is safe from the
danger of neglected colds, throat
and chest complaints, when you
keep Heenzo in the home, for
Heenzo is by far the most effec-
tive. reliable. and economical
cough remedy known.
Read what a well-known user
says:—
MISS EILY NORTHS
(late of Eunice Westelrn School,
Melbourne), now Danseuse and
Ballet Mistress of the Imperial
Ballroom School, 163 King Street,
Sydney, writes: “On several
occasions I have contracted colds
due to dancing in draughty halls
and rehearsal rooms, but, fcfrtu-
nately, your Heenzo has always
proved a sure and speedy remedy.
Like so many others, whose pro-
fessions demand a freedom from
coughs and colds, I consider
Heenzo an absolute necessity.”
makes
equal to
8 ordinary
bottles
of the
finest
cough
remedy
df
Think what you SAVE by
buying Heenzo. For just
2/- you can get a handy bottle
of concentrated HEENZO
from any chemist, and by
adding sweetened water,
make up several weeks of
cough mixture supply for the
whole family—a supply
EQUAL to eight ordinary
-ized bottles (about £l’s
worth) of the best ready-
made up cough and
influenza remedies.
Heenzo is guaranteed abso-
lutely pure and harmless —
contains no drugs whatever,
and cannot upset the diges-
tion of even the youngest
baby—is easy and pleasant
to take. It soothes the affect-
ed parts wonderfully—gives
instant and beneficial relief!
ENZO,
COSTS 2 I —SAVES £'s
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
For its Golden Jubilee Ball Fremantle
Rowing Club decked the port’s town
Hall with symbolic furnishings. Golden
wattle and Iceland poppies were the floral
decorations, a racing pair was prominent
on the dais, and crossed oars, jubilee
emblems and blue medallions provided
the mural adornments. A dozen debs,
with posies of gold and blue (the club’s
colors) dipped rhythmically before Talbot
Hobbs and his lady, then pulled out with
their partners into a veleta. Mayoress
Gibson had roses floating on her wave
of black georgette; Mrs. W. Bateman
splashed electric-blue velvet with silver;
there was a ripple of gold on Mrs. J. W.
Hugall’s rust-red satin, and a froth of
tulle swirled round Jean Barton’s black
taffetas. Doris Noble’s foamy pink laces
were sprayed with silver, and Mary
Paterson’s blue satin foamed with white
net.
Tiny buds of orange-blossom were
scattered on her veil of alternate layers
of pink-and-white tulle when Toddles
Dunn was married to Locke Rowland
at Wesley Church. Her picture frock of
white moire taffeta was fashioned with a
tight-fitting ruched bodice, puff sleeves,
voluminous skirt and a train three yards
long falling from the shoulders. The
snowdrop and orange-blossom posy was
in keeping. Matron-of-honor Mrs. B.
Busby and ’maid Eileen Clinch were in
Alice-blue moire taffetas, with diamente
daggers, slit backs and short frilled
trains.
Yvonne Richardson, one of S.A.’s
centenary misses, had a crowded fortnight
of sightseeing in this State. At Fairbridge
Farm School, where principal Dallas
Paterson put on a luncheon, she was the
first official visitor to see the building
constructed to house the printing plant
recently received from England. This
self-sufficient community not only built
the structure, but made its concrete
blocks,
A septet of savants and their wives
were guests of honor at the Uni. Women’s
Club dance, held in the Refectory at
Crawley. Green and gold streamers
swooped across the ceiling between sus-
pended red-and-gold lights, and bowls of
wattle and poinsettia were ensconced in
convenient spots. Leah Cohen presided
with assistance from the club’s patron,
Mrs. A. C. Fox, who tied her apricot
taffetas with a gold sash. Mrs. F. B.
Alexander’s black chiffon velvets glittered
with diamente, Mrs. P. Fraenkel’s brown
velvets were self-embossed, and Mrs.
Baldwin Wiseman draped violet ninon on
her black matt crepes.
Father Lynch’s violin recital filled His
Majesty’s Theatre. A feature of the pro-
gramme was a first public performance of
Dom S, Moreno’s “Spanish Serenade,”
written for and dedicated to Father
Lynch. Edward Black accompanied skil-
fully, and Sydney Lynch, the violinist’s
brother, gave vocal interludes.
The Children’s Hospital garners the
profits from three matinee performances
of “Nine Till Six” at Boan’s Theatrette,
Mrs. R. Goyne Miller produced, and a
score of well-knowns appeared in the all-
feminine cast. Mrs. H. E. Braine, Viola
Bathgate, Gwenyth Ambrose, Margaret
Paton and Dorothy Synnot were among
those who acquitted themselves credit-
ably.
Members of the Royal Schools’ Club
gathered at the Karrakatta Club, where
Mrs. Cecil Mason presided in soft china-
blue chiffons. The programme, arranged
by Gertrude Carey, was devoted to
Edvard Grieg, and comprised an address
on the Norwegian composer’s life and
work, with vocal and instrumental illus-
trations.
Mrs. Rupert Botterill, of Neutral Bay,
N.S.W., who is visiting her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. D. McWhae, of West Perth, is
being feted by her old friends. Mrs.
John Adami, in green and grey, enter-
tained at the Esplanade, with the guest
of honor wrapping a black fox fur over
her sleek black crepes. Another hostess
was Mrs, Charles Lamb, who entertained
at her flat in Mount-street.
Yet another fair maid of Perth is leav-
ing these shores for good. Pat Handcock,
who has been abroad for several years,
has announced her engagement to
Thomas Goodchild, of Finchley, Eng-
land.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
V Alliance Fran?aise held a big shivoo
at Birk’s Piccadily on France’s national
day. Dancing and bridge provided en-
tertainment, and this year dancing was
most nopular. The president, Mrs.
A. E, V. Richardson, received the guests
gowned in delphinium-blue lace with a
gold thread running through and a posy
of red, white and blue flowers on the
corsage. Delphiniums and red and white
blooms figured in the decorations. Six-
teen girls gave a peasant dance in Alsa-
tian and Breton costumes, Peggy Letcher
performed a gipsy dance and Yvonne
Richardson sang a French song in char-
acter. Two debs., Annita Surmon, in
white, and Pat Bone, in pale pink, were
presented to Mrs. Richardson by the
secretary, Mrs. Ernest Puddy.
The Bankers’ Ball drew a gay crowd
to the Palais Royal, where autumn
flowers decorated. In the official box
were Robert Camm, chairman of the
Associated Banks, and Mrs. Camm,
smartly gowned in blue-and-grey pat-
terned chiffon ; Mr. O. L. Isaachsen, of
the Adelaide, who was accompanied by
his daughter Mary, wearing white
frilled tulle over silver tissue; S. G.
Martin, of the Commercial of Sydney,
with Mrs. Martin, she in black maro-
cain cut on princess lines, and daughter
Nancy, in white taffeta flowered in red,
green and yellow. W. J. Warren, of the
State Bank, brought his daughter, who
sported orchid mauve crepe. Mrs. W. R.
Jenkins chose black chiffon velvet with,
a large pale ostrich-feather motif on the
corsage, and Mrs. John Lord was in
wine-toned chiffon with wing sleeves.
The Trotting Association burst into
hospitality the same night with a dance
in the Freemasons’ Hall to welcome the
president of the W.A.T.A., J. P. Stratton.
The S.A. president, J. J. Rice, presented
trophies won during last season. The
guests were received by Mr. and Mrs.
Rice, the latter in black ring velvet cut
on diagonal lines and merging into a
train.
The Rover Scouts held their ball at
the Palais Royal, a centenary effort. As
could be expected with battalions of
Scouts in every suburb there was a great
rally. A special feature was a miniature
cycle race. J. L. Leal, State president,
H. W, Rymill, Chief Commissioner, and
Mrs. Rymill, N. M. G, Gratton, presi-
dent of the Rovers, and his daughter,
Mrs. James, of Port Pirie, were received
by G. S. Coleman, Commissioner for
Rovers, and Mrs. Coleman, and escorted
through a guard of honor of 120 Rover
Scouts, each wearing a silver star on the
lapel of his evening coat. Mrs. Rymill
was gowned in Marina-blue crepe with
a short marmot fur coat. Mrs. James
wore schooner-blue matelasse with long
chiffon sleeves. Mrs. Coleman’s beige
georgette was trimmed with cerise
velvet flowers on the bodice.
The Refectory was gay with poin-
settias, blue gumtips and marigolds when
the Uni. Women’s Union held a dance
and bridge party, and the president (Miss
Jean Gilmore) and members entertained
professors and lecturers with their re-
spective better-halves. /
A bridge party was held at St.
Corantyn, East Terrace, to raise money
for the Kindergarten Princess Gladioli
(Esme Reid). The Bonython lady re-
ceived the guests smartly gowned in
black chiffon velvet, with a black net
jacket embroidered in diamente. The
secretary of the kindergarten, Mrs. Percy
Magarey, chose fine black lace. Arum-
lilies, poinsettias and autumn foliage
were the floral decorations in some
rooms; pink carnations and roses in
others. Fifty tables were filled.
Heather Cell and Miss E. Walker have
devised a centenary pageant in which
over 300 people will take part. Thelma
Thomas has designed costumes, and
quite a host of women are working at
them under the supervision of Mrs.
Compton Trew and Mrs. R. Smeaton.
Miss Cell will produce the pageant, and
the orchestral part of the programme
will be in the hands of Dr. Harold
Davies, Dr, T. D. Campbell, John
Horner and Brewster Jones. Miriam
Hyde is composing much of the music.
The engagement has been announced
of artist Septimus Power to Margery,
daughter of Mrs. E. J. Desmazures, of
Kensington Park. The marriage is to
take place in December.
Molly Jauncey arrived from the U.S.A.
in the Monterey to spend five weeks in
Adelaide. She is the daughter of Prof,
and Mrs. G. E. M. Jauncey, former
South Australians, now residing in St.
Louis. Miss Jauncey, a graduate of
Washington Uni., is an assistant in the
Department of Biology at that seat of
learning, where her. father is professor
of physics. Miss Jauncey is staying with
her uncle, Edward Turner, at Black
Forest Estate,
TASMANIA.
The Royal Yacht Club’s shivoo at the
Continental and its own clubrooms ad-
joining was one of our big social events.
Flags and nautical gadgets of all sorts
were used in decoration. Commodore
G. H. Evans and Mrs. Evans had a big
official party with them. Mrs. Evans
wore deep-blue soft satin with a velvet
cape in the same shade. The Lady
Mayoress was in pastel green. Pretty
Claire Schultze (S.A.’s “Miss Centenary”)
was in red velvet.
Mrs. Arndell Lewis lent the South
Hobart A.W.N.L. her house for an after-
noon party to bring members together.
The big rooms were warm with blazing
fires, competitions were a source of
amusement and music was made by Mrs.
Pickering, Mary Nicholls and Dr. James.
The McPhee lady’s short speech at the
close was an example of economy in
words.
A committee of young things ran a
lively dance at the Claremont Memorial
Hall. Invitations were issued in verse,
some of which belonged to the new
school of poetry. A buffet supper was
served on the dais.
The Uni. Dramatic Club took “The
Wind and the Rain” to Launceston and
had a very good reception at the National
Theatre. Mrs. Keverall Mclntyre enter-
tained the co, and other guests at supper
at her home after the performance.
Eunice, eldest daughter of the L. H.
Oakleys, Wellington Crescent, walked
down the aisle of St. David’s as Mrs.
W. H. Harris in a pale beige angel-skin
frock with loose fitting coat to match.
The coat had deep cuffs of brownish fur.
A pearl belt and some quaint and pretty
pearl ornaments set off the frock’s bodice,
and its neckline fell in a deep cowl. A
Juliet headdress had a deep eyeveil of
tulle. Jean Ewart ’maided in rust-
colored wool georgette, with brown
velour hat touched up with a rust-
colored feather.
Midland hounds met at Mona Vale,
and followers were entertained by Mr.
Eustace Cameron and his married daugh-
ter, Mrs. Seddon. There was a very good
turnout of members, and a sizable
number of onlookers in cars and on
horseback.
Mrs. Battershill (Joan Gellibrand that
was) is paying her homefolk a visit. Her
husband is Colonial Secretary at Cyprus,
and she has a charming home there.
The second of the Howard Buchanan
girls, Jean (Sydney), announces her en-
gagement to Stuart Pixley, of Kingston.
Una Margaret (Peggy) Dick, only girl
chick of Mrs, and the late Ronald Dick,
Hobart, and Paymaster-Lieut. W. K.
Jackson, R.A.N., of H.M.A.S. Canberra,
announce their engagement.


gd
PEOPLE STAY at PETTY’S
in SYDNEY...
Visitors to Sydney choose Petty's for many
reasons. They appreciate its central position;
they like the comfort, the service, and the
cuisine. And the moderate tariff: Room and
Breakfast from 11/6. Inclusive from 18/-. Wire
or write for reservations.
PETTYS
HOTEL York Sf. Sydney EDW^e°r GSI
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS: .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Julius Want”: Even our carefree
population heaved a loud sigh of relief
when it became known that further
R.A.A.F. stations would presently be
established at Brisbane, Bowen, Cairns
and Darwin. The danger is that R.A.A.F.
stations may increase at a greater rate
than ’planes. Still, there will be enough
'planes to train local youth if the authori-
ties will only have the sense to see that
trained men are even more essential than
machines. You can build a machine in
emergency in next to no time. But
men cannot be trained hurriedly in emer-
gency unless machines are available to
train them on.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Nobody is going to include
North Queensland in arid Australia this
year. Tully till the beginning of July
had had 156.74 inches, and ended the first
week of the new half-year with 5.59
inches in the gauge. Babinda, where
there used to be a State pub, had only
149.9 inches for the half-year, and Innis-
fail, which usually wins the stake, came a
poor third with 137.8 inches, which is
only about .70 point a day, including
Sundays. Cardwell and Proserpine ran
over the 100 inches. In Mackay, what
with Forgan Smith away and the new
harbor construction calling for dry
weather, it scarcely rained at all —
according to tropic standards. Just a
mere 82.83 inches. But even a quarter
of that would have been appreciated in
the west —at Birdsville, say, where the
half-year’s tally was 4.4 inches.
* * * *
“Ora” : Queensland's Telegraph Super-
intendent, J. G. Allen, is rejoicing at the
tendency of the old-type of Queensland
house built on stilts to be replaced by
low-built structures on cement founda-
tions. The old type had its merits.
Floods flowed underneath them, white-
ants had a long climb, kangaroos and
dingoes came and sheltered alow
in heavy rains, a few bags nailed from
pile to pile added an extra room for
visitors. In the wilder parts of the tropi-
cal north I met two settlers who built
on extra high piles and made the front steps
removable so that they could be hauled
up and the house inmates isolated as in
a castle from the local snake and tribe.
“E.P.”: Australia is so large that one
part of it can exercise a bit of uncon-
scious humor against the rest without too
many people knowing what is going on.
On June 22, a month after the introduc-
tion of the prohibition tariff, a Japanese
mercantile marine training ship, the
Kaiwo Maru, arrived in Darwin (there
were two commerce professors on board),
and the Commonwealth Government
gave the captain and his officers an
official dinner. The acting Administrator,
who presided, told the visitors that as the
ship was not touching at any other Aus-
tralian port his responsibility was greatly
added to, but he “hoped the trip would
be the forerunner of others... .Australia
valued very highly its trade with Japan,
and he hoped that trade would extend
and that more ships training mercantile
marine men who would carry the increase
would come to Australia.” The Japan-
ese are silent laughers. Their natural
amusement was not audible as far away
as Canberra.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The mind of the bargain-
hunter is just as keen and inexplicable
up north as in the busier south. Hun-
dreds attended a Brisbane Customs sale
the other day and fought for Chinese
cigarettes, though if offered them by
friends they would think twice about
smoking the things. Oriental cigars
which are sold retail in the shops
for 3d. apiece brought 6d. Six bottles
of Chinese wine went for £1 75.,
and ordinary camphorwood boxes
created a riot of bidding. Most went for
higher than retail Brisbane prices. One
sold for £6 15s. If anyone offered £6 15s.
for the best plain camphorwood chest in
Rabaul or Samarang, two or three pros-
pective sellers would be killed in the
crush.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: I can remember the
days when the Brisbane-Tweed Heads
line was hailed as a Government bless-
ing, and also the curses cast at a jealous
N.S.W. which wouldn’t give us a connec-
tion across the border. Remember, too,
how we hailed the progress of better
south-coast roads and the development
of motor haulage after railway union
bosses realised in Ryan days that they
“Well 'ave to do somethin about it, ma —the wite-ants is in ’er.”
had a Government of their very own,
and to hell with the flamin’ cockies and
their goods. Now we have the rail-
way —it lost only £66,948 in 1935 —pro-
viding worse “service” than ever, a
splendid road on which we, who paid
for it, are not allowed to carry our own
produce to market, heavy bridge tolls if
we use our private cars, and the Trans-
port Strangulation Board to see that we
don’t use anything else that we’d like to
use and are prepared to pay for. As
old Joe puts it, “Cripes! We’ll be havin’
rings through our noses yet.”
* * * *
“East Cape”: The decision of the New
Guinea Administration to recall “the two-
mile limit,” which forbade one trader to
compete with a rival within two miles of
the latter’s station, has caused a rumpus.
The trouble is as old as the white man in
the Islands. Traders naturally tried to
“best” each other at all costs, but the
man who was influential enough, in the
Polynesian groups at least, to enlist the
sympathies of the chiefs or priests simply
got a taboo against his rival and sat back
to make his pile. Not only traders are
to blame. Bloody wars have arisen out
of strife between rival missionary bodies
intent on stealing each other’s converts.
The only man I ever heard of to put a
stopper on this was William MacGregor.
The process was in full swing when he
took over the chaos that was B.N.G. He
divided the territory into sections, and
gave each mission leave to go its hardest
within its own boundaries, but not out-
side them.
❖ * * *
“El V.”: The round-Australia motor-
race which is being organised in connec-
tion with the Australian sesquicentenary
celebrations —one of the prizes will be
the Bulletin Gold Cup—should be a
big chance for northern drivers. The
crucial sections will be those across N.Q.,
the Territory and N. Western Australia,
and those who have been indulging in
“mailman’s delight” and “devil devil” all
their lives should have a start in experi-
ence over town and track drivers. It is
a safe bet that the North during the pro-
gress of the affair will see more cars
together than all the rest of its long life.
Already about 700 entrants are in sight,
and as the scheme emerges from the
chrysalis stage there will probably be
more. It is possible even that overseas
drivers will be attracted, since in distance
and difficulty the contest will be without
parallel since the Pekin-Paris race before
the war.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
A. D. and Mrs. Buchanan greeted
about 300 guests at the cheery Oxley
Golf Club Ball. Poinsettias, great bowls
of it on the stage and round the hall
and upstairs in the gallery, where the
bridge fiends congregated, made a blaze
of color, and roses decked the buffet
supper tables.
Mrs. N. R. Kirke, of Dornoch Ter-
race, lends her grounds and house each
year for the benefit of the West End
Methodist Church. A fancy-dress tennis
tournament this year brought a big
crowd. Among the players were a pair
of clowns with a wheelbarrow, one as
wheeler and the other as sitter, and two
other players whose red and white silk
frocks were plastered with signs—“No
Parking,” “No Smoking,” “Keep to the
Left,” etc. They would have appealed
to the Privy Council Lords —they repre-
sented The Land of the “Free.”
Mrs, P. A. -Clark, president of the
Hamilton Ladies’ Bowling Club, wel-
comed about 80 bowleresses to her
annual at-home, among them being three
Victorians who came up with their hus-
bands. Trophies won during the year
were presented, and all the official dames
—Mrs. Ashton Murphy, a vice-president
of the Q.L.8.A., Mrs. Hope Michod,
Mrs. Hornibrook and Mrs. Clark—were
given flowers.
Holiday-makers at Str ad broke Island
have been seeing some strange sights
lately. The whales are making north,
and a few days ago Bob Campbell netted
two dugong. A few years agb the
dugong fishers could reckon on at least
100 for the year, but now they are lucky
if they get 20; and the chemists ar.e
howling for dugong oil. Snapshots
of the two sea cows were sold for 6d.
each.
The ambulance got the profits from the
Taxation Staff Ball at the Trocadero.
Decorations consisted largely of inci-
dents in the life of taxpayers—mostly
unpleasant. Commissioner H. Magee and
Mrs. Magee with a party were in the
official alcove, and about 400 dancers
gyrated. Margaret Kiernan and Rupert
Parker were joint hon. secs.
By earnestly playing bridge at least
one afternoon a week, the Canberra
Charity Bridge Club has amassed £34
to hand over to welfare organisations.
Mrs. T. J. Maher is the new president,
and, as she was secretary previously,
she should know the ropes.
Milicent Wilshire, daughter of the Mal-
colm Wilshires, wedded Edward Geoffrey
Herring, son of the late Dr. K. Herring
and Mrs. Herring, of Double Bay, Syd-
ney, at St. Paul’s C. of E., Stanthorpe.
Audrey Herring, cousin of the ’groom,
and Jean Walsh were bridesmaids, and
Russell Cuppaidge and Forrester Wil-
shire best man and groomsman. Fires
glowed in the Country Club, where the
reception was held —a welcome sight to
the contingent of Brisbane visitors, who
were shuddering in their furs.
Mrs. J. W. Davidson entertained the
wives of visiting railway officials, motor-
ing them to Mt. Coot-tha and pouring
afternoon-tea at Rowe’s.
Three ’maids clad in amethyst fol-
lowed Dora Cathie to the altar of St.
John’s Cathedral when she became Mrs.
James Drake. ’Groom is the only son
of J. G. Drake, the Commonwealth’s first
P.M.G., who is still going strong at 86.
Her trained, moulded gown was of bro-
caded moire, and the neck was square
cut. W. F. Franklin, Stuart Cameron and
Archie Longland were the ’groom’s
aides, and the three ’maids were Joyce,
Mildred and Vivienne Cathie.
Mrs. Bill Buttner gave a big bridge
party at her home at Wooloowin to help
along the fund of the antique display
which Sir Leslie Wilson will open in
August, and which is to provide the
sinews of war for the Bush Book Club
and R.S.P.C.A. Roses in the drawing-
room and gold-colored flowers—nas-
turtiums, marigolds and wattle —in the
reception-rooms made the home gay.
Mrs. J. H. Fairfax passed through
Brisbane this week, en route to Cairns.
Old friends flocked to the wharf to wel-
come her, and her visit to the North
should be as imposing as a royal pro-
gress, for thousands of women all over
this State know Mrs. Fairfax, who was
the originator of the C.W.A. in Queens-
land.


wm
■ WWB i
il J;i
■
■
M
' y*3E! t :
fc J jn ir
THE ULTIEVKm - E
6-Valve “BABYGR3.ND” All-wave
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast hand.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO. ( LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Kuyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
P?m
m
RADIO NEWS
THE LOT OF THE RADIO SERVICEMAN.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Owing to the progressive nature of the
radio industry, the day is long since past
when the man who seeks a living by
curing radio troubles at short notice
sallied forth armed merely with a screw-
driver, pliers, a pair of headphones, a
dry cell and a pocket voltmeter. In 1936
a man with no more equipment than
that would be groping hopelessly in the
dark, and would be akin to a surgeon
called to a case needing urgent operation
equipped with only a stethoscope. The
physician has the most intricate machine
of all to work upon, and his tools of
trade are comprehensive and intricate.
Somewhat similar are the necessities of
the modern radio serviceman. He is
faced in modern receivers with the most
baffling problems, and only if he is
equipped with elaborate and expensive
instruments can he hope to diagnose and
locate a fault accurately at short notice.
There are, of course, simple instances of
trouble in which the “screwdriver
mechanic” can scramble through, but
such cases are rare, and their rectification
is often a matter of pure luck.
The medico doesn’t do his job for a
mere song. He charges appropriately
for his services. The radio service-
man, if he is a lone hand with a good
connection and has grown up with the
craft, can make ends meet reasonably
well, He, too, is at the beck and call of al!
and sundry, for radio receivers are likely
to develop trouble at any time, and often
the listener is frantic to hear some par-
ticular programme. Not every radio
serviceman, however, makes even a
decent living from his profession. Con-
sider the remarks of such a practitioner
in England:
Radio service work is one of the most
skilled of our modern professions. A
good radio engineer needs sound technical
knowledge, to which he must keep adding
detailed knowledge of all types of British
and American receivers, and an ability to
carry out mechanical repairs on auto
mechanisms of a complex nature. He must
have tact and diplomacy in dealing with
ignorant clients who haven’t the faintest
idea of what the inside of a modern re-
ceiver even looks like, and fondly imagine
that it should go on working for ever.
They will not even grant their receiver the
same amount of service as their motor-
car.
The serviceman must be honest, smartlj
dressed, well spoken; work from nine in
the morning to nine at night. He must
have testing equipment, if he is going to
do his job at all successfully, costing
approximately £2O. Finally he must own
a motor-car. Now, what would be the
salary of such a man? The average
net income to-day [in England] is 555. per
week. This is £3 a week less than a first-
class electrician who works 74 hours a
day, 10s. a week less than a “navvy” and
ss. a week less than the Westminster Cor-
poration dustman. It is no good manu-
facturers or traders squealing because they
can’t get good men. The organisation I
work for sells every conceivable type of
receiver and pays its engineers £3 7s. per
week. Out of this magnificent sum they
must pay their car expenses, which, it is
agreed, amount to 30s. per week. 1 have
been in the radio business since its incep-
tion, and yet, could I earn £5 a week, I
would probably be the best-paid service
engineer in the British Isles. A disgusting
state of affairs.
One hears occasional criticism of
the Australian radio trade, but the
Australian manufacturer is not slow to
recognise technical ability and to re-
munerate accordingly.
D. B. K.
Grid Condenser Capacity and
Quality.
The quest for quality of reproduction
which brought the power-grid detector
and the diode brought also the .0001
“Be a sport and say a few words of
cheerio to our listeners!”
microfarad grid condenser and .25
megohm leak. Doubtless many who
made the change from .00025mfd. and
2 megohms wondered why it should be
necessary and how much was gained. The
reason for the change becomes simple
when it is remembered that, whilst a
condenser is a complete barrier to D.C.,
it is not to A.C. The behavior of a con-
denser to A.C. may be regarded as that
of a resistance whose value varies in-
versely as the frequency of the applied
voltage. Thus a given condenser may
offer a negligible impedance to a cur-
rent of high frequency and yet be a very
formidable obstacle to one of low fre-
quency.
The function of the grid condenser is
to offer as easy a path as possible for
the R.F. oscillations received by way of
the aerial, and as great a barrier as pos-
sible to the audio components of the
rectified current. For, audio purposes
the grid condenser is in parallel with the
gridleak—for the tuning coil is of
negligible audio impedance and it
offers an alternative path which results
in some losses. The losses of high notes
are greater than those of the middle
register, whilst the low notes suffer vir-
tually no loss.
At 5000 cycles per second the im-
pedance of a .OOOlmfd. condenser is
only 320,000 ohms, which is not very
much greater than the .25 megohm grid-
leak. As a result there will be some loss,
due to the grid condenser at this fre-
quency. At 500 cycles the impedance of
the condenser will be 3,200,000 ohms, so
the loss will be negligible ; while at 100
cycles and 50 cycles the impedance of
the grid condenser has risen to such high
values —16 megohms and 32 megohms
respectively—that losses are still more
negligible.
The use of a larger grid condenser
might give slightly increased signal
strength owing to lower impedance to
the R.F, signals, but this gain would be
offset by a further increase in the loss of
high notes. With a gridleak of higher
value than .25 megohm the losses would
be even greater.
C. B. X.
Concerning Amateur Radio.
“Amateur radio is the means of com-
munication with others on equal terms,
of finding friendship, adventure and
prestige while seated at one’s own fire-
side. In picking his human contacts
out of the air the amateur is not seen
by them. He is not known by the clothes
he wears, but by the signals he emits.
He enters a new world wherein the quali-
fications for success are within his reach.
There are no century-old class preju-
dices to impede his progress. When he
is W9XYZ, a beginner, the radio elders
help him willingly, and when he becomes
W9XYZ the record breaker and efficient
traffic handler he willingly helps the
younger generation. Without a pedigree,
a chauffeur, or an old master decorating
his living room he can become a prince—
of the air. At the close of day, filled
with the monotonous routine of the
machine age, he can find adventure,
vicarious travel, prestige and friendship
by throwing in the switch and pounding
his signals into the air.” —Dr. R. V.
Bowers, Yale University.
All Round the Dial.
Every Friday night at 8.30 2CH broad-
casts a session for motorists by Fred
Berry, motoring editor of The Bulletin.
These sessions are relayed to inter-State
stations in N. S. Wales, Vic. and S.A.
* * * *
While in London, Leslie Clarke Rees,
of Westralia, had many opportunities of
meeting and interviewing celebrities. He
is broadcasting some of his impressions
from 2FC on Sunday afternoons. In a
talk on Shaw, he confessed that when
given an appointment he felt that he
should be prepared with many intelligent
questions, but during three-quarters of
an hour interview he had very little
opportunity of firing these questions, for
Shaw did all the talking. Mr. Rees was
amazed at Shaw’s agelessness and vitality
and his capacity to talk about things that
happened 30 years ago as if they had
taken place recently.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions are very quiet now at
night, and there is no improvement in
morning reception. English, German and
French stations are all heard well during
the day, but the Americans are rather
patchy.
An announcement heard from Ger-
many was to the effect that Telef unken
had secured an order for a new 85kw.
short-wave station for Belgium.
2RO uses the 25-metre band at present
in the mornings, but signal level is very
low.
Nothing much has been noted on the
49-metre band, but RVIS on 70m. has
been excellent, with comparative free-
dom from static. Dual-wave receivers
will not reach this station.
The 80-metre amateur band has im-
proved, and many Maorilanders are
heard, but on good nights interference
is severe between stations.
JVH, in the 20-metre band, seems to
have settled to a regular morning
schedule, coming in well from 7 a.m. to
8 a.m., but with considerable variation in
signal strength.
The only night stations are the
NIROM group on 27m. and 31m., but
these are only fair and rarely above
’phone strength.
Judging by announcements from DJD,
Germany is sparing no effort to put the
results of the Olympic Games on the air
for all the world to hear, but none of tne
German stations is heard well here at
the hours the Games will actually take
place.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
The Ideal type of amateur superhet
(described B. 15/4/’36) has caught on,
and one hears this receiver being dis-
cussed and praised on various bands, par-
ticularly 80 metres. Maorilanders are
reaching Australia in quantity on
telephony, and the old 80-metre habitues
are still there in force. West Australians
are also heard strongly at intervals.
The 20-metre ’phone DX isn’t what it
was, although a few of the more power-
ful Americans are heard during the
afternoons very strongly. The most
active VK2 station on this band is
VK2ABD, who spends most of his time
yarning with W6BKY. This latter
U.S.A. West Coast station is probably
the best heard of all the DX stations.
The antenna system is a Diamond, some-
where around 480 ft. in each leg. One
imagines that some of the Americans
must be real estate agents with a lot of
unoccupied territory in order to be able
to erect such massive systems.
Plans for five metres are going ahead
slowly but surely, and for the rotation
of the antenna the ingenious scheme in
June “QST” will be adopted. This con-
sists of an electric motor drive, with
wormwheel and pinion, controlled to any
compass point by a selector switch in the
operating-room. A small fan motor will
serve the purpose, and the method is
much better than a series of handwheels
and ropes.
Something unusual in the nature of
portable receivers has been turned out by
the writer, and this will be described in
an early issue. The receiver is a most
simple affair, using two valves, one a
triode and the other a tetrode. Two 14-
volt dry cells provide filament current,
and the B supply is 18 volts only, from
two nine-volt C batteries. Made with
plug-in coils, it covers from below 20
metres to the broadcast band (or higher),
gives good headphone reception on the
amateur bands and is remarkably sensi-
tive on broadcast. On the latter range,
one nine-volt C battery is sufficient for
plate power. Other than the two vari-
able condensers, for tuning and re-
action, and a rheostat, there is not a
single fixed condenser or resistor in the
circuit. The handiness of such a re-
ceiver will be apparent to the ham.
VK2NO.


llltS
'ZSS&I
1936 A.V.C.
PENTAGBID SIX,
£9/7/6.
Carter
ftENEMOTOR
"B" ELIMINATOR
MODEL 180 GENEMOTOR.
PRICE, £6/10/-.
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
MODEL XI FILTER.
For use with
Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-. f
Write for Comprelieusive Bulletin
No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA) Limited
66 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
THE STANDARD
INPUT:
Cv. 2.2 amps.
OUTPUT:
180 v. SOtna.
WHY THE GRID LEAKS.
A Simple Explanation for Beginners.
There are many ways in which the
operation of the grid-leak detector can
be explained, but the following throws
some light on the importance of correct
grid-leak and condenser values. In Fig.
1 a detector valve is indicated with the
usual tuned grid circuit. The grid con-
denser is shown, but for the time being
the grid leak is omitted. A radio
frequency voltage developed in the tuned
circuit by the incoming signal exists be-
tween the points X and Y. During the
positive half-cycle of any one wave, the
grid condenser will be charged, with the
grid of the valve itself becoming positive.
The effect of this is to decrease the effec-
tive impedance of the region between the
cathode (filament) and grid. Hence the
impedance of the whole valve is de-
creased. During the first half of the
positive half-cycle, therefore, decreasing
valve impedance results in increasing
plate current. During the second half
of the positive half-cycle, however, the
positive charge decreases, and the plate
current will also decrease proportion-
ately. Now consider what would be
expected to happen during the negative
half-cycle of the incoming signal. Owing
The points X and Y are subjected to
varying voltages owing to impulses from
the aerial.
to the high impedance of the grid-fila-
ment path of the valve, the condenser
cannot be charged negatively. This
looks as if the valve would give perfect
rectification, but this is not so, for the
discharge of the condenser during the
last half of the positive half-cycle is not
a simple dissipation of the charge. The
discharge oscillates ; it dies away to zero,
overruns the mark, partly charging the
condenser oppositely. This charge dies
away also, but again spills over slightly,
charging the condenser to a less degree
The completed detector circuit.
in the other direction. Gradually the
oscillation dies, but leaves the condenser
with a small negative charge, because the
grid-filament path is of almost infinite
impedance. Thus, if the circuit were
operated as in Fig. 1, each successive
wave would leave the condenser with a
greater negative charge, which would
ultimately neutralise the positive half-
cycle of the incoming wave, and no sig-
nals could pass. This is the familiar
trouble of a “blocked grid,” which is
experienced if an open circuit occurs in
the grid leak.
Fig. 2 shows the complete detector
circuit with the high resistance (grid-
leak) connection from grid to cathode
circuit. Through this leakage path the
small negative charge left on the grid
side of the condenser can be dissipated,
leaving the valve free to deal with the
positive half of the next wave. It is clear
from this description that the necessity
for a grid leak is because the grid con-
denser takes a definite time to discharge.
It is evident also that the value of the
grid leak must be such that the con-
denser is discharged in time for the next
positive half-wave. Too great a resist-
ance value will prevent the complete dis-
charge within the space of one half-cycle,
and “blocked-grid” symptoms will result.
S.F.A.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
( Manufacturer’s products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Radiola Model 251.
The trouble in these days is not a
matter of difficulty in making a selection
for test from an array of unquestionably
excellent receivers on the market, but
that of getting any first-class factory to
spare a model for test, even for a brief
period. Radio editors who have occa-
sion to make these tests for the benefit
of readers have reason to know that the
oft-threatened “saturation point” of the
radio market is a will-o’-the-wisp. The
conditions are akin to those of the motor-
car industry. New models come along
and, although the last-but-one model may
be quite serviceable and give a good per-
formance, it is satisfying to be able to
trade-in for the very latest creation and
to enjoy reception enhanced by the
newest gadgets. From all indications
it will be a long while, even in this under-
populated country, before every home
possesses a radio broadcast receiver, and
a great deal longer before every home
has a dual-waver. The inclusion of
short-wave tuning in nine out of ten of
the commercial receivers manufactured
to-day has contributed in no small
measure to a steady demand for high-
grade receivers. The newcomer to radio
entertainment may buy a straight-out
broadcast receiver, and after a few
months or weeks find his early morning
train associate waxing enthusiastic about
his short-wave overseas reception. The
usual step is to have a converter hitched
on to the existing receiver, and finally to
buy a dual-waver reputed to be a shade
better than the neighbor’s. Leading
Australian radio factories are working to
capacity, and the demand for the supply,
particularly from country dealers, is so
insistent that receivers can hardly be
spared elsewhere.
The name “Radiola” is the trade-mark
for the receivers made by the vast
A.W.A. organisation, and when one asks
for a Radiola for test one takes it for
granted that it will be something in the
highest possible category. Of the eight-
valve “World Range” model 251 Radiola
it may be said, after a week’s evening
and daytime dial-twisting, that it is not
surprising these models are in demand.
This is an A.C. dual-waver with ail
the latest features, not the least striking
of which is the beautiful cabinet with
its attractive sloping control panel. It
was A.W.A. which first introduced this
form of cabinet structure-in this country,
and in 1936 the round aero-type dial
(also an A.W.A, innovation) has given
way to a unique form of full-vision
dial. This dial tells the story in “straight
Radiola 251 dual-wave eight-valve super-
her. Uses valve types 6K7, 6AB, 6K7,
6H6, 6F5, 6F6 (two) and 80 respectively.
Makers: Amalgamated Wireless ( Asia ),
Ltd. Price 42 guineas.
line tuning,” and it does it ingeniously.
The broadcast and short-wave bands, in-
dicated in separate channels, are illumi-
nated according to the position of the
wave-change switch. Additionally, the
motion of the dial is ingenious, for it
combines both slow- and quick-motion
action. A clutch mechanism carries the
indicator along quickly and, after reach-
ing the approximate desired position,
provides a vernier latitude on either side.
The value of this on the short-wave
bands is obvious. It is an actual vernier
control.
Above the dial is the Electron ray in-
dicator, popularly known as the “magic
eye.” The volume control can be shut
right off and stations located, even on
short waves, by this silent indicator, after
which volume can be advanced to suit
the ear. The receiver, incidentally, is
fitted with a temporary control indicator,
which may be removed when the user
is familiar with operation. One of the
controls is a special sensitivity booster
for the short waves, not necessary on the
broadcast range unless the search is for
DX at these frequencies.
Automatic volume control takes care
of the strong locals when tuning over
the broadcast range, so that there is none
of the effect of the speaker trying to
leap out of the cabinet. A commercial
broadcast receiver minus A.V.C. would
not be tolerable in these days. The
speaker is a lOin. high fidelity model, and
with the push-pull audio output gives
superlative reproduction. A continuously
variable tone control takes care of indi-
vidual likes or dislikes in pitch.
It is fitting that, with the audio system
in the Radiola 251, pickup jacks are
provided at the rear of the chassis, and
the most may be made of electrical re-
cordings with all the advantages of a
high-quality amplifier.
The mechanical points of the chassis
are typical of the excellent workmanship
turned out by the A.W.A. factory,
scrupulous attention being paid to details
—components, for instance, are specially
impregnated against humidity, ensuring
high performance in all climatic condi-
tions, and non-microphonic variable con-
densers are rubber-mounted. The chassis
is cadmium-plated and finished in two-
tone lacquer.
In keeping with progress, the valves
are, with the exception of the rectifier,
of the latest metal series, including 6K7,
6AB, 6K7, 6H6, 6F5, 6F6 (two) and 80.
Anything at length about the perform-
ance of Radiola 251 would be super-
fluous. It does exactly what the manu-
facturers state. It gives the finest possible
reception from Australian and overseas
stations, and it will do this with almost
any makeshift aerial. The price is 42
guineas, and this receiver is obtainable
from Radiola dealers in any part of Aus-
tralia where there is 220-240 volts A.C.
power available.
What’s What in Radio.
A system similar to the radiophone
picture used in U.S.A. has been per-
fected in Germany. It can be used on
any telephone, and is clipped into the
flexible wire of the telephone trans-
mitter. The weight with batteries is
1041 b.
H: * * *
The Machine Tractor Service plays an
important role in agriculture in Soviet
Russia, and radio is now an important
feature of this service. The various
tractor crews are kept constantly in
touch with central office by means of
short-wave portable transceivers. All de-
velopmental work in short-waves in
U.S.S.R. is done by amateurs.
'>• ”1’ $
It is reported that many of the Euro-
pean short-wave broadcasting stations
will increase power during the next
year. England has three 70,000-watt sta-
tions under construction, and Germany
is going as high as 100,000 watts.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) What are the optimum values of plate
and screen voltage, using the 15 -type R.F.
pentode as electron-coupled detector ? (2) /
am using aerial coupling as in B. 17/10/’34,
with the difference that condenser Cl is in the
centre of coil as shown {sketched). The aerial
is a twisted-pair doublet, 33ft. per side, with
33ft. feeders. On 40 metres there is about
0.5 point gain using the coupler, but on 80
and 20 metres there is nearly two points de-
crease as against using one side of the aerial
as an inverted L. What can be wrong ?
453.
(I) 135 to 180 volts plate; 45 volts screen
grid. (2) In the case of a doublet of this
type, efficiency will be obtained only near the
fundamental. Flence the increase on 40 metres
with the aerial described. Better response over
a wider frequency range can be obtained by
making the impedance matching triangle 10ft.
per side. Try a .OOOlmfd. variable condenser
across the feeders also. The doublet described
should be effective at 20 metres if tuned to
resonance. Some cut-and-try wijl be necessary
with coils. The inductive relation of the coils
as sketched is correct.
* * * *
(1) What bandspread is obtained in the
Ideal Amateur Superhet on 10, 20, 40 and 80
metres ? (2) Are the protractor scales obtain-
able in Sydney ? —457.
(1) In degrees, 15, 30, 60 and 100 respec-
tively, if 35mfd. tuning condensers are used.
(2) These are now available in metal, at
Is. 6d. each, from Price’s Radio Service, Angel-
place, Sydney.
* * * t-
Enclosed are two circuit diagrams of short-
wave receivers. (1) Would either of these pick
up amateurs, and which do you recommend ?
(2) Can you give a diagram of a good long-
distance transmitter ? —455.
(1) Yes. The three-valve circuit is preferable.
(2) It must be understood that an experimental
license must be obtained before transmission
can be undertaken. Many diagrams and de-
scriptions are available in the Radio Amateur’s
Handbook or the Radio Handbook, 7s. 6d.
each, plus postage, McGill’s Newsagency, Mel-
bourne.
What will he the value of a resistance to put
in series with a voltmeter to show a reading
of one volt when testing the voltage of a fully-
charged six-volt accumulator ? —456.
Cannot be computed without knowing what
type of voltmeter is to be used, and the in-
ternal resistance.
* # * *
/ have a pair of headphones in which the
cords have developed trouble. Can you give
a sketch showing how new leads should be
connected ? —447.
The diagram shows the correct way to wire
up a pair of ’phones. The polarity of the pole-
pieces is usually marked somewhere on or
inside (he earpiece. Ordinary lighting flex
makes a good, strong connecting link for
’phones. Fig. A shows how the leads are
arranged with respect to polarity, and Fig. B
shows how they are twisted together at the
junction to each headpiece for the sake of
neatness.
# * *
/ have a model 241 All-wave Radiolu and
have been getting varied results in short-wave
and broadcast reception. (1) What type of
aerial would’ give me the greatest selectivity
on the broadcast band with a reasonable
amount of volume ? (2) What type of aerial
would give me the best reception on 16-, 19-,
25- and 3 1-me Ire bands? (3) Should the guy-
ropes of wireless masts be insulated ? (4)
Should I use a condenser on the earth wire ?
(5) Should a lightning arrester be used between
aerial and set ? (6) Should I use a line filler
between power supply and set? —454.
(1) The V doublet, 25ft. per side, with a
10ft. triangle at the centre, should be very
good, but one must not expect too much from
an aerial system when it is untuned. If the
aerial, plus feeders, is tuned to resonance at
the desired frequency, the story is very differ-
ent. A gain of two or three points, with in-
creased selectivity, can be secured in this way.
A special aerial coupler is to be described
shortly as the “Autotune aerial coupler.”
Although this is designed for the short-wave
ranges, it can easily be made to take in the
broadcast band. The usual impedance-match-
ing transformer is only a compromise to
secure some attempt at resonance over a wide
range of frequencies. If your receiver is fitted
for doublet input, the tuned aerial coupler will
be invaluable. (2) The V doublet again, if
tuned. (3) Guy-ropes or wires should be
broken at intervals by insulators, but this is
more important in transmission than reception.
(4) This question is not clear. If you mean
a variable condenser, this is included in the
aerial-tuning unit referred to. (5) Yes. (6)
A line filter can be very useful, and if noise
elmination is the main point this should cer-
tainly be used.


W?r
JfAMftllSN
mim *S§SMPMNG PLUGS \
CANADA I-.:-
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
“SfLVER
£i>Gc w
TRADE O MARK REG I STEREO
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNiNQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd,, London, England,
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Viet
The Steering Column
RENOVATING CAR UPHOLSTERY,
HOW VARIOUS STAINS AND SPOTS CAN BE
REMOVED.
BY FRED BERRY.
WHEN a car has been in constant service for more than two
* years, despite reasonable care in operation and regular
“valeting” there will invariably be found much detailed recon-
ditioning to do if one desires to maintain “new car” perform-
ance and appearance. Usually the amateur mechanic goes as
far as he can with mechanical overhaul and restoring exterior
finish, but seldom does he take more than casual interest in
renovating the interior.
Actually, the resale value of a used car is further enhanced
by a given number of hours being spent in attention to the
inside than by similar time occupied on engine details. Clean
upholstery means a better looking car, the materials wear longer
and further provide users with greater comfort and* enjoyment.
One reason perhaps for the general
poor condition of interiors is that few
motorists have sufficient knowledge of
chemistry to remove the various spots,
stains and grease marks commonly
found on car upholstery. After a few
ineffectual attempts with incorrect sol-
vents the fear of making things worse
induces most folk to discontinue the
experiment. In this article the correct
methods to adopt in removing blemishes
from cloth or leather upholstery are
given.
Grease spots cause most bother, and
in removing them from leather (real, not
artificial), cloth or mohair the most effec-
tive solvent is ethylene dichloride, or, if
this is unprocurable, carbon tetrachloride.
Use clean cloths at all times, and make
sure a clean portion of the cloth is
used throughout any operation.
Much time will be saved and a com-
plete removal of the blemish assured if
one studies the spot carefully before
applying a solvent. If the grease stains
are similar to those usually caused by
the hands of careless mechanics, the job
will be simple and straightforward, but
if a heavy layer is to be removed the
first step will be to detach as much of
the mass as possible by scraping with a
blunt knife. This done, saturate a clean
cloth with solvent, and with a circular
movement start well outside the area of
the grease spot and work towards it.
Repeating the process several times, using
a clean portion of the cloth on each occa-
sion, the blemish will be removed with-
out leaving a circle of grease and dirt
along the outer edge.
Removing Grease Spots.
Another method is to pour about a
tablespoonful of solvent directly on the
grease spot and immediately press out
with white blotting-paper. Use a clean
section of the blotter each time, and
repeat the process until the paper shows
no signs of grease. If a slight stain still
remains owing to dirt in the grease, rub
it with a clean rag saturated with luke-
warm neutral soap solution, and finally
rinse with cold water on a clean cloth.
In cases where enamel, paint or lacquer
has soiled the upholstery, prompt action
is necessary, for the reason that the older
the stain the harder it will be to remove.
The ease with which the job can be
accomplished depends upon the quality
and color of the offending material, be-
cause some gums, pigments and oils are
more difficult to remove than others.
Paints and enamels in which turpentine
is used can best be treated by first soft-
ening with turps, and after removing the
bulk with a blunt knife gradually remove
the stain by alternately rubbing with a
cloth saturated in turpentine and another
cloth saturated with lukewarm neutral
so . a p sl J ds * The number of applications
Wl , depend upon the age of the stain
and the quantity to be removed,
In difficult cases it may sometimes be
necessary to use as a solvent one of the
recognised paint removers, or, if the in-
gredients are available, a mixture of
equal parts of meth. spirits, benzol,
acetone and amyl-acetate; but in such
cases the solvent must be used sparingly,
particularly on leather, otherwise there
is some risk of altering the color of the
material. Lacquer stains can best be re-
moved by using thinners, a universal
solvent for lacquers and obtainable at
all hardware stores. As in the previous
instance, large quantities are not neces-
sary to remove stains; but after a preli-
minary application in which the bulk
is softened sufficiently to scrape away
the final process is merely one of care
and patience, coupled with a liberal use
of clean cloths.
In cases where fruit stains have soiled
cloth or mohair upholstery, it is useless
to attempt removal by using chemical
solvents such as benzine, ammonia and
thinners, as these substances serve only
to “fix” the mark and cause a worse dis-
coloration than the original stain. Fruit
stains of practically all kinds can be
easily removed by treatment with very
ho£ water. Wet the stain well by pour-
ing a few ounces of boiling water directly
on the spot. Scrape all excess pulp, if
present, off the fabric with a knife. Rub
vigorously with a clean cloth wet with
hot water, and, if this treatment does not
entirely remove the stain, dry thoroughly
and give a final sponging with a clean
rag moistened with carbon-tetrachloride.
Ice-cream stains should be similarly
treated.
Prompt Attention.
Stains caused through spilling battery
acid (a not uncommon happening) should
be attended to immediately they are ob-
served, owing to the fact that the high
content of sulphuric acid will destroy the
fabric, whether leather or cloth, if left
standing for any length of time. .So, as
“I Want my brakes relined .”
soon as possible, pour enough ordinary
household ammonia directly on the spot
to cover it completely. Permit the
ammonia water to remain for a minute
or two to neutralise the acid. Then rinse
the spot by rubbing with a cloth thor-
oughly wet with ~ cold water. This
treatment will suffice for old or new
stains, but it must be clearly understood
that if acid is allowed to remain in con-
tact with upholstery for more than a few
hours the material will be burned and the
resultant hole will have to be patched.
Chocolate and sweet stains should
never be dabbed with ammonia or petrol,
repeated applications of neutral soap in
hot water being most effective. A final
vigorous rubbing with carbon tetra-
chloride will serve to remove any fats or
waxes that may be present in the fabric.
Spots of tar may be removed by
various solvents, but much of the suc-
cess of this operation depends upon
mechanical removal of as much of the
tar as is possible before applying any
liquid.
Chloroform, carbon tetrachloride,
benzol or petrol (not ethyl) and solvent
naphtha are suitable solvents, the cloth
used being changed repeatedly in order
to collect the offending material instead
of forcing it into the fabric. Bloodstains
due to either careless stowage of game
or to accident are difficult to remove
unless treated when comparatively fresh.
Use a weak warm solution of salt and
water, rubbing the spots lightly with
clean cloths saturated in this solution.
Petrol, thinners or carbon tetrachloride
should never be used for this purpose, as
they merely serve to fix the stain per-
manently.
Chemical Reagents.
lodine stains disappear instantly when
treated with a warm saturated solution of
thiosulphate of soda (photographers’
“hypo”), several applications of clean,
warm water being necessary after the
stain has disappeared to absorb excess
reagents. Inkstains seldom respond
readily to treatment, certain makes enter-
ing into combination with the fabric and
acting as a fast dye. Special ink-remov-
ing liquids may be obtained from
stationers, and an experiment with a
saturated solution of
oxalic acid in water is
worth trying. Particular
care must be taken to
sponge the spot after
treatment with a number
of changes of clean, warm
water to remove all traces
of the chemicals used.
White shoe dressing on
either leather or fabric
upholstery can best be re-
in ov e d by vigorously
brushing with a stiff
bristle brush. Only in very
obstinate instances is it
necessary to damp the stain
with water, let dry and
give a further brushing.
Cord, mohair or natural
leather upholstery can be
successfully treated for
removal of blemishes as indicated in this
article, but motorists should be warned
that the use of certain solvents men-
tioned on imitation (pyroxilin) leathers
may result in destruction of the fabric.
As a consequence, in such cases if stains
cannot be removed with petrol, ammonia
or water they should be left severely
alone.
With regard to cloth or mohair up-
holstery free from stains or blemishes, a
considerable improvement in appearance
can be gained by washing or steaming at
regular intervals. In the case of mohair
it may be washed with warm water and
neutral soap, removing the suds with a
clean damp cloth and using a dry cloth
to wipe the surface several times. While
the fabric is still damp brush lightly with
a stiff brush (with the pile, and not
against it) and allow to dry with all
windows open. When the pile is flat-
tened by long use it can be restored to


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard’ 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard’ 24'6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., fin. and Jin'
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
HARD
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 86/-
Xyio ioo/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order for two
rears free of charge.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics
M/ier //v /w£
fY/ru P/a/ Po/ £
Before dismantling an engine
on which castellated nuts are
used, make a deep file mark
across end of bolt to indicate
line of split-pin hole.
JMKFROIT
%% ® «1
€
r
i
ro
r:
>wi
MOTOR OIL
A QUICK START BELOW ZERO
XTO matter the heat of the day, or under what
conditions you are motoring whether it be
the coldest morning, through snow or ice-covered
roads, you need have no fear concerning the
smooth running of your car truck or tractor
when VEEDOL is in the sump.
VEEDOL Motor Oil is tested and guaranteed to
withstand the most intensive heat and cold known
to chemical science. Despite its superiority,
VEEDOL costs no mere.
V3Q
S*OTO*
P I
IVEPTIiNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED • AllMafrs
its original condition by covering with a
damp cloth and touching lightly with a
hot flatiron.
All cord or mohair interior fittings
should be dry-cleaned regularly either
with a vacuum cleaner or stiff-bristle
brush, whilst leather upholstery should
be regularly rubbed down with a soft
cloth damped with lukewarm water in
which a neutral ‘soap has been dissolved.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.W.W. (Girral, N.S.W.).—(I) Have all ’36
Dodge D 3 models a luggage boot at back ?
(2) Are headlamps on all ’36 D 2 and D 3 nickel-
plated ? (3) What are the main features dis-
tinguishing ’35 from ’36 models ?
(1) No. Some D3s were supplied without
trunk, but in N.S.W. now all D3s will have
trunk at rear. (2) No, headlights are lacquered
to match body color; the radiator shell is
chrome-plated. (3) Particulars were published
on this page when the car was last tested.
* !|= * t-
F.D. (Clandulla, N.S.W.). —I intend buying
a seven-passenger sedan (used), about ’3O to
’33 model. (1) Which of the three cars named
should give most satisfactory service, and which
would give best petrol consumption if reason-
ably driven ? (2) Names of reliable used-car
dealers ?
(1) Little to choose. No. 1 is possibly the
best buy, mechanical condition being equal.
Petrol consumption should be best in No. 2
owing to lighter weight. (2) Every recognised
distributor sells used cars. Consult ad. columns
in newspapers.
S.M.H. (Beladongal, N.Q.). —(1) My ’34
model six-cylinder car is fitted with a resist-
ance coil. What is this for? (2) 1 have trouble
with the self-starter in this moist climate, and
frequently have to use the crank handle. Bat-
tery is fully charged, and when engine is warm
no trouble is experienced. Cause and cure ?
(1) Resistance is fitted to prevent surging and
control overcharge from generator; also, if
ignition switch is left on, to reduce current at
breaker-points and so avoid serious damage to
distributor. (2) Symptoms indicate a dirty
starter motor, which absorbs so much current
when starting from cold as to leave nothing
for the ignition. Damp wires add to leakage.
Suggest dismantling starter motor and thor-
ouhgly cleaning and adjusting brush gear.
*' * * *
E.F. (Corfield, N.Q.). —My ’36 model car
has developed queer riding qualities, particu-
larly at speed, giving a feeling of flat tyre or
dragging brake, there being a tendency for the
tail to swing off the road. What is the cause ?
You have not indicated mileage covered,
if car is still below the 5000 mark, errors in
front-wheel alignment or in steering connec-
tions are possibly the cause. A check of
such adjustments can be made only with special
gear. If the car has covered greater mileage
and the fault has not before been detected,
ineffective shock-absorbers might be the cause.
In any case, have alignment carefully checked.
M.H.W. (Broadmeadows, Vic.). —My six-
cylinder car (20,000 miles) has lately developed
alarming wheel wobble immediately one drives
over rough roads. New king-pin bushes Have
been fitted, but still the only way to stop the
“shimmy” is to slow down to about five m.p.h.
and then get up speed again. What can be
done ?
Another case of faulty front-wheel align-
ment. Toe-in camber, king-pin inclination or
alignment if deviating from maker’s specifica-
tion will either separately or collectively cause
such trouble. Only certain remedy is to send
the machine to a service station equipped with
plant to check such adjustments.
■ * * * *
A.B.R. (Invercll, N.S.W.). —Where can I get
information about constructing a producer-gas
plant to fit on a tractor; also a textbook on
Diesel motors ?
Angus and Robertson or Dymock’s will for-
ward you a list of works dealing with both
subjects from which you can make a selection.
* * * !i:
J.S.B.A. (Abermain, N.S.W.).— My ’ll six-
cylinder car is missing badly at low speeds,
and when idling the miss cannot be traced to
any one cylinder. Fitted new plugs, ignition
wires, points and condenser and have checked
coil. Distributor has been cleaned and ex-
amined for cracks. Plug gaps 25 thou.;
breaker 22 thou. I have altered all settings
several times without improvement. Miss dis-
appears at 15-20 m.p.h. What’s wrong?
Trouble does not appear to arise from de-
fective ignition gear, but rather from air leaks
in the induction system or faulty carburettor
adjustment. Examine valve guides for excess
wear and all induction system joints for air
leaks. If these are all right, have the car-
burettor dismantled and inspected.
* * * *
A.McT. (Canberra, F.T.). —I append particu-
lars of a collision between two cars, together
with gross weight of each vehicle and distance
stopped from point of impact. At what speed
was each car moving at the time of the acci-
dent ?
Far too many unknowns in the equation to
evolve a satisfactory solution. No calcula-
tion could be made with data available, nor
even could an approximation of speed be
arrived at.
Seaman Wins Isle of Man Classic in
Old Delage.
From a field of 19 starters R. J. Sea-
man had a margin of Imin. 17sec. to
spare from “B. Bira” in the 200-mile road
race for cars of 1500c.c. engine capacity
held at Douglas, Isle of Man ; the time
for the complete trip, 2hr. 52min. Isec.,
averaged 69.76 m.p.h.
Interesting features of the drive were
that Seaman’s !460c.c. Delage was
of a width proportionate to traffic de-
mands, have smooth, uniform surface,
free from mud and dust, and, finally, are
provided with well-equipped service
stations along the route.
Although other countries may have
constructed highways having some or all
of these ideal features, none has as yet
reserved .them en masse entirely for the
use of motors.
Opened for traffic in 1932 and 66 miles
long, the Turin-Milan motor road is a
characteristic type.
It is paved throughout with concrete
and is 30ft. wide. Curves have a radius
varying between 6000 and 21,000 yards,
giving a wide margin of safety at maxi-
mum speed with any stock car, whilst
there are several straight stretches up to
12 miles in length, passing through a large
portion of Piedmont and Lombardy, in
which no towns or villages are encoun-
tered. Thus motorists see one of the
most fertile portions of the plain of the
Po Valley.
The Naples-Pompeii motor road is an-
other beautiful and interesting public
A n engineering masterpiece, and one of the most wonderful racing engines ever
built —the eight-cyl. supercharged Delage, now ten years old and used by R.J.
Seaman in winning the Isle of Man classic road race recently.
equipped with an engine designed and
built 10 years ago (see illustration), and
during the greater portion of the race
on straightways the motor was revving
at better than 7000 r.p.m., equivalent to
125 m.p.h. Twice during the 50-lap
event Seaman broke the lap record-
-71.64 m.p.h. on the twenty-sixth lap and
72 m.p.h. on the twenty-seventh lap.
The race resolved itself into a duel
between the Delage and a team of half-
dozen 1488c.c. E.R.As., piloted by such
experts as Lord Howe, “B. Bira,” Cyril
Paul and P. G. Fairfield, and, although
Seaman, making a non-stop run, appar-
ently finished with much in reserve, the
next five to cross the line were all
E.R.As., only 12 minutes separating the
whole six.
Drawn in third place in the line-up at
start Seaman hung grimly to the tails of
the two leading cars for five laps, when
he shot ahead to take the lead, and was
never again headed. No pit stops were
made, there still being 7gal. of petrol
in his tank at the conclusion of the race.
There were no accidents.
work, since it runs for 124 miles at the
foot of Vesuvius. Milan-Brescia, 524
miles, and Milan-Bergamo, 30 miles, have
now been in operation for three years,
whilst the Rome-Ostia motor road, start-
,n ° fr 9 t m Basilica of St. Pauls, is
41j miles long, is lighted at night and
no charge is made for using it. All other
motor roads are subject to toll, the scale
of charges being governed by the type
of motor used.
On the Turin-Milan motor road, 66
miles, sidecars and cars of less than 12
h.p. are charged 4s. single journey and
6s. return ; between 12 h.p. and 18 h.p.,
6s. and 95.; between 18 h.p. and 27 h.p.,
Bs. single, 12s. return; exceeding 27 h.p.,
10s. single, 15s. return. Tickets are also
issued for transit over one-fifth to four-
fifths of the motor road, and a Is. 2d.
supplementary ticket is issued for night
travel for cars of all kinds and for what-
soever distance. The same charges are
made for foreign as for Italian vehicles.
Motor Roads in Italy.
The Romans were great builders of
roads, many examples still existing after
having resisted the ravages of wear and
time.
It is not surprising therefore to find
that in Italy to-day auto strada are being
constructed for the sole and specific pur-
pose of accommodating motor transport.
Sponsored initially some few years ago
by one Piero Puricelli, these motor roads
totally eliminate the drawbacks insepar-
able from highways made for horse-
drawn vehicles. They are planned for
the purpose of avoiding populated
centres, are mainly straight, absolutely
do away with level crossings, have the
widest possible curves, impose a certain
discipline upon drivers, cannot be used
by unauthorised persons or vehicles, are
Motor Oddities.
“Eureka”: We had travelled over
miles of a red, dusty road when some-
thing underneath the car caused trouble.
The driver had to get out and get under,
but several times he had to emerge from
underneath to have dirt taken out of his
eyes. Then he had a brainwave. He
fastened the smallest side curtain round
his head, and with the celluloid over
his eyes he was able to work without fear
of getting the dirt in his eyes. Next time
he swears he’ll take a strip of celluloid
with him for such emergencies.
* * -i- *
“El Jahah”: How well those old cars
were made! A 1912 Crossley is still
giving good service in the Warrnambool
(Vic.) district, its engine running as
sweetly as a song. Its behavior climbing
hills is, however, not so praiseworthy, as
its owner is forced to carry an anchor
in the form of a brick to prevent it slip-
ping its moorings during a respite neces-
sary for cooling purposes. Night driv-
ing is also out of the question, though
there is a carbide-gas lighting system.
How did they manage at night a quarter
of a century ago? Or didn’t they?
* * *
“Seenitall”; Was out inspecting sheep
in an agent’s Hudson when the driver
was quite suddenly unable to change
gears. They had been getting hard to
mesh about ten minutes before refusing
to engage. The journey was completed
with the utmost difficulty, the engine hav-
ing to be stopped before any gear could
be used. Examination revealed that a
stick from one of the paddocks crossed
had passed through the hole in the clutch
casing, somehow forced its way into the
cork clutch plates, forced one out and
taken its place, thus stopping the plates
from functioning.


More Abo. Sketches from
“CHUNUMA”
/. •; .r/.j
next Week.
"THE AGE
Established 1854,
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser •
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Nafonal Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmama you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL”
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
~ certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaj>er House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
df
in ADVERTISING
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” : (Est. 1842), the «nly daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
CAM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
a wild shriek and sped off across the flat with such
agility as one would not have credited her. In a
moment Ulysses was after her.
Gwennie gave a shrill hoot of delight. Dingyerri,
horror-stricken, clasped her hands tightly under her
chin. Chunuma shrieked with joy. From inside the
packing-case that Dinah had vacated issued a series
of frightened squeaks and yelps. Gwennie and
Chunuma promptly removed the lid.
“New one puppy-dog!” they exclaimed delight-
edly ; “where old Dinah bin plant’m longa me an’
you.”
In the ecstasy of their discovery even the stew
was forgotten.
Dinah and Ulysses came trundling back together
in a minute or two to find their precious menagerie
being subjected to a strenuous and, judging from the
protesting squeals, an exceedingly unwelcome course
of petting and cuddling.
“ ’Ere! ” said Dinah bust-
ling up, annoyance and anxiety
imprinted on her usually bland
countenance. “You put’m my
little pfeller down. You kill’m
d’rectly! ”
“Get outa my camp! ”
spluttered Ulysses, who, far from
lacking in humor, was doing his
best to suppress the amusement he really felt at the
joke that had been played on himself and his “ole
woman.”
“All right,”
Gwennie said
sweetly, holding up
a struggling puppy
by the tail. “You
gibbit me an’ All-
about stoo first
time, then we
gibbit little pfeller
back longa Dinah.”
Ulysses splut-
tered protestingly.
“All right!
Take the plurry
stoo!” he said at
last. “An’ leave
them poor little
animal alone!”
Dropping their squirming captives, Chunuma and
Gwennie pounced upon the saucepan. They bore
it away from the fire, emptied its contents into a
rusty tin dish, and set upon it, monkey fashion, with
their fingers.
Dinah, still disgruntled, murmured conciliatory
little nothings to her disconcerted family as she
gathered it up again from all directions. Ulysses
took out his pipe and sat watching the children, a
mischievous smile dawning under his beard.
“Gwennie,” he said presently, dropping his voice
to a mysterious pitch. “You got any more a dem
crackers?”
Gwennie glanced up.
“What for?” she asked suspiciously, with her
mouth full.
“Never mind what for,” Ulysses snapped. “You
tell’m me now!”
One had company—a pleasant-faced, stout
old lubra.
“I gotta one
pfeller left,” Gwen-
nie replied, having
finally decided that
the information
could be of no harm
to herself.
“Good!” said
Ulysses, rubbing his
hands in anticipatory
delight. “Well, what
about you sneakin’
ober dere an’
puttin’m behind dat
ole mongrel Boxer?”
Gwennie re-
flected for a
moment,
“All right,” she
said, “you gibbit me
something first time.”
Ulysses scratched his head, considering whether
the joy he would derive from seeing his lifelong rival
publicly disconcerted were greater than the sacrifice
required in proffering a tin of honey as a bribe. He
chuckled. Yes, decidedly it would be! He produced
the honey from beneath, its concealing bag.
“Here y’are,” he said, “and ’ere’s box a matches.
Now you just git,talking to ’im quiet-pfeller like”
He broke off suddenly, peering along the riverbank
to the neighboring camp.
“’UIlo!” he exclaimed, “where’s de ole mongrel
got to now?”
A deep, throaty chuckle proceeded from the
conkerberry bushes .in the rear of Ulysses’s camp.
“Not a bad joke, you ole blackpfeller,” Boxer
said, “only I thought of it first. I gib Gwennie
dat cracker meself, b’longta shift you an’ you ole
woman.”
Ulysses turned.
“By cripes,” he said. “You ole scoundrel! You
ole”
“Look at this!”' Boxer interrupted, thrusting
his hand into his pocket and pulling forth a
piece of quartz. He pointed a black finger to a
streak of yellow wending it's way through the white
stone.
“Dat’s de dinkum gold, ole pfeller,” he said
confidentially.
Ulysses took the stone and examined it carefully
with a critical if not scientific eye. “Look’s like it, all
right,” he agreed.
“Well,” Boxer continued impressively, “1 got a
reef a dat stuff ober dere —nuggets slickin’ out like
bulls’ eyes!”
Ulysses nodded enthusiastically.
“Like you bin tellin’ me before,” he said.
“Same one,” Boxer asserted, warming to his
favorite subject. “What about packin’ up all this
gear an’ cornin’ along with me?”
Ulysses looked up sharply.
“All right,” he said defensively. “Only we teU
boss where you cornin’ along with me.”
“No plurry fear, we don’t!” Boxer expostulated
“You know I always been a bit of a meself bloke
I never knock about much with blackpfellers, only
when I do ’im come with me. I don’t go with
him.”
The truth of the matter was that Boxer, having
been a lone hand all his life, was beginning, in his old
age, to feel the need of a little company.
Gwennie,, having chased the last remnant of stew
round the dish with her finger and conveyed it to
her mouth,
picked up her
tin of honey
and prepared to
depart.
■ “Come on.
Chunuma, Ding-
yerri,” she said,
“leave’nl t w o
pfeller fi g h t.”
She bent "id
whispered i n
Chunuma’s ear:
“M i g h t be
d’rectly ole
Ulysses wanna
take my honey
back.”
The chil-
dren sauntered
off, leaving the
rivals to their
argument, which
will continue, as. likely as not, until old-man Fate
decided which of the two must “go lead” on the last
long journey.


Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
The Table of Progress
C ATISFACTORY progress in work, whatever it may he, in
social life, and in affairs generally, is possible only if useful
qualities are strengthened and desirable attributes developed in
the individual.
Pelman Institute submits the following table of the
* more important of these qualities and attributes, with a
short note on each that may be helpful to readers.
Age? Men and women, whatever their age may
be, are standing still, slipping backwards
or stepping upwards. The important
' thing at any age is to be amongst those
who are stepping upwards.
Physique; Always of service, but not often
essential to progress. On the other
hand, no one goes far without stamina
and endurance, which are largely of the
spirit.
Experience; Always valuable. Experience of
one kind is, often a jumping-off ground
for experience of another and wider kind.
Clear Speech: Necessary to full .progress. It
indicates clearness of thought and, defi-
niteness of intention. It helps us with
other people.
Demeanour and Bearing: Like speech, these
show something of the inner man, but
there are useful things to learn about
them.
Clothes: Sometimes very helpful. Clothes should
be appropriate to the work to be done
or to the occasion to be graced, and
when put on should be forgotten.
Formal Education: Very helpful if supported by
persona] qualities.
Self Always a great help, it creates
supporting qualities.
Influence: Useful as a-start. Not as significant
as it once was. It is a man’s own influ-
ence that counts to-day.
Acceptance of Responsibility; A great attribute,
the foundation of trust.
A Definite Aims A very great help. We know
where we are going and discover sign-
posts at every turn-off and cross road.
Interest: Very important. It gathers knowledge
and gives energy.
Power of Judgment: Always of great value. It
consists in gathering the facts and con-
sidering them without emotional bias.
Prompt Decision: A habit that makes the
power of judgment effective.
Observation: Necessary to judgment. It pro-
vides exact information. It also widens
interest, both general and particular.
Concentration: A most important aid to pro-
gress. Necessary to the finding, mar-
shalling and weighing of facts.
Self-confidence; The sum total of other quali-
ties. It grows from a very small seed—
one decision correctly made, one act
properly performed—and it is fertilised
by sound habits of thought and will.
Courage, industry, moral force and adjust-
ment to circumstances and environment arise
from the development of these essential quali-
ties, as do also serenity, alertness of mind,
watchfulness and preparedness,
The reader of these notes will be encouraged
by the discovery that the essentials of security
and progress in any walk of life are within the
reach of any man or woman with normal, capa-
cities. The Pelman Institute accepts the respon-
sibility of developing the essential qualities in
such men and"women.
Pelmanism is the science of success , of making every day a full day, a day of enterprise
and satisfaction. Over half a million men and women have realised this. More than
33,000 have enrolled with the Pelman Institute in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of
40 years" standing. Its headquarters are in London. The
Melbourne Branch Institute was established 28 years ago.
The Pelman System is taught by Post. Full particulars
are sent free and post free without obligation. Fill in and
cut out the form alongside and send it to the Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Call if you can.
A Personal Message from
Mr. W. J. Ennever,
Founder of the Pelman Institute.
Wpnp
Mil
■b
Photo., Kay Vaughan.
“It is because no system in the
world but Pelmanism can so surely,
so speedily, bring out the strong
points of your character, and build
up those possibilities which exist in
everybody’s mental equipment, that
I ask readers to find out more
about Pelmanism. If any of my
readers had occupied my position
since Pelmanism was first brought
to the notice of the world, and had
seen the lives of students trans-
formed from mediocrity into
useful successful careers through
Pelmanism, they would not for one
moment doubt the incalculable
value of this coi&se of training.”
OELMANISM is so universally success-
-1 ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and will,
so are his personal efficiency and his
standing with his fellows. If these habits
are bad he will be ineffective personally;
if they are good he will be strong, happy
and successful.
>'an«L IS pS a i»33 33 '
In “The Efficient Mind" you will find
a full explanation of the Pelman Course
and much interesting information on the
subject of Mental Training. This book
will be sent you free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester Mouse, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1. Write for
it to-day, and it will be in your hands by
return of post. All correspondence is
regarded! as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives. Call if you wish.
“Efficient
Mind,”
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Name , r ........
Address
43.7
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gdf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living ouuicte Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
*
w
Jo
0
W A * \
v
f
\p
<V V e c><^V
30
<«■
r-
*
\>
$
&r
\*
.\0
x.
4€^
>^v^> e ‘
|j^c^


*:
X
ysA-.-s.'/.-
m
m
mm
mm
■m
WMf-Xy.
mm
yy.ym
I
BH
IHCS
YOU
YOUo
i I
7
m
gss
iiiSiii
S<s
mmm.
iill
t w'>
Hi
IRZONE Offers You
Never - Ending Entertainment l
MODEL 565
5-Valve A.C. Electric DUAL WAVS
Superheterodyne. Overseas Reception.
One of the most amazing Dual Wave Receivers yet offered
for sale in this country.
Owing to its completely new design and exclusive Airzone
features, it gives an astounding performance on both broad-
cast and short wave bands.
It has many outstanding features, including—
New Metal Valves, Electric Eye, Metal Core Coils,
Automatic Volume Control, Remarkable Selectivity
and Sensitivity, Special Dynamic Speaker, Tone Con -
trol. Noise Suppressor,
Edge Lit Dial..
This remarkable set, in com-
mon with all Airzone Models,
has a beautiful Cabinet with
a high piano finish.
Cash Price
£2B-15-0
Easy Terms
COUPON
If you do not know the name of your
nearest dealer , mail this coupon to 4IR-
ZOTSE (1931) ltd,, 16-22 Australia St..
Camperdown , Sydney , N.S.W / .
Please post illustrated folder of Airtone Receivers
and advise me of your nearest dealer.
NAME.
ADDRESS
PRINT IN BLOCK CAPITALS.
AND such entertainment too—the world's greatest artists, singers, pianists,
violinists; Tauber, Crooks, McCormack, Peter Dawson, Grace Moore,
Heifetz. Cortot and Australian Eileen Joyce fill your home with their charm.
The great master conductors wave their batons for your pleasure bringing
magnificent orchestral music to your fireside. And than, mirth and merri-
ment! The crash and jangle of joyful dance tunes, the quips of comic opera
and from across the footlights the risque joke of musical comedy and the
broad fun of the vaudeville show.
All with an Airzonel All kinds of musical beauty, grave and gay, all sorts
of rippling fun and nonsense—all manner of means to pass time happily;
educational talks. International football, Davis Cup tennis, racing
entertainment galore.
And, remember—it's better on an Airzone, If it's music, it's at its best;
if it's speech, it's clearer—for “ Airzone’s tone is Air zone’s own . w
MODEL 556
5-valve A.C. Electric
Superheterodyne.
Interstate Reception.
This magnificent model has a special Speaker
which gives amazing tonal quality and
volume. A new horizontal dial is fitted with
edge illuminated glass scale. Fitted with
"G" type glass valves and metal core coils,
the very latest development, giving consider-
able increase in efficiency, greater selectivity
and more sensitivity.
2O Gyineas
EASY
TERMS
David lones Ltd,
Nicholsons l imited
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Carnegie & Sons
Elvy & Co. Ltd.
Farmer & Co. Ltd.
Sydney Retailers:
Bebarfalds Ltd.
Nock <S Kirby Ltd.
E. F. Wilks & Co.
Ltd.
W. Harry Wiles
C. Wink worth 5
Son Ltd.
Mark Foy’s Ltd.
Bryants Ltd.
Salonola Radio
Buttons Pty. Ltd.
Sydney Wholesalers:
Bloch d Gerber Ltd, Fox & Macgillycuddy Ltd.
Mick Simmons Ltd. Westoott, Harell & Co. Ltd.
COUNTRY RESIDENTS: Airzone also makes fine battery Sets.
Ask the authorized dealer in your town for a demonstration.
Residents in States other than N.S.W. can obtain
Airzone Five Radio from the leading Music and Radio
Houses and Departmental Stores.
msm
gd
(1931) Limited, 16-22
El
