

A TT i kTTir
A 1 LA Nll v
mmntw.f
ML JL Jut jWJm
Thousands have tested At la n tic Ethyl—
thousands have judged it All Now you
test it!
This anti-knock fuel was Created to develop
maximum “knockless” power in 1934/
1935/1936 motors—in fact, in all high
compression engines irrespective of their
vintage . . . that’s the job it does—and
that’s why we welcome tests! We offer
no empty selling claims ♦ * . all we ask is
that you judge Atlantic Ethyl* on its
merits. Test Atlantic Ethyl . . . it’s Al.
*ln cars (other than those with high compression
motors) built before 1934 , having comparatively low
compression ratios and no tendency to knock, use
Atlantic Petrol
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., incorporated In N.S.W.
-A.E4-36.
The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2933.
Britain’s Appalling Policy
Wednesday, April 29, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S W, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
StoruWritiiHJ
>J IU '
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
liooklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
c o pomp
Conditions for the Second Annual
on, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary. Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, aind any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.) .
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except’ world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A NEW
“GALLIPOLI
Possibly Mase-
field’s Gallipoli
will stand as the
classic piece of
writing on legen-
dary Anzac as
long as that legend remains. Easily able
to stand beside it—for sheer brilliance of
writing and for .an infinitely greater
wealth of observation—Compton Mac-
kenzie’s Gallipoli Memories should last
on its own values at least as long.. Now
John North has added to the literature of
the epic campaign his Gallipoli: The Fad-
ing Vision (Faber and Faber; 15s. net),
a work so worthy to be with Masefield’s
and Mackenzie’s that many, placing the
three on a shelf in some order of honor,
will not decide easily on the centre piece.
Mr. North himself would give the place
to Mackenzie’s “quite incomparable”
account; “a personal narrative that bril-
liantly illuminates the personalities and
the issues involved.” Probably he would
give the left-hand place to Masefield’s,
for its “fine prose” and because “the
strength and the felicity of its diction
lulls the spirit; and it has been largely
responsible for the poetical growth of the
Gallipoli legend.” Leaving his own
book out of the count, Mr. North would
probably give the right-flank to the
second volume of Winston Churchill’s
The World Crisis, for its historical value,
and because part of his own book is a
vigorous defence of Churchill against
various—once numerous—critics, includ-
ing the Australian Official Historian.
Mr. North’s own Gallipoli is written
out of a conviction that “the reader may
find the story of Gallipoli not to be de-
pendent on an entirely false glamor for
the attention and the admiration it has
secured in the past.” Which is not to
declare that there is none of the true
glamor about Mr. North’s largely
planned, finely constructed and strongly
written version. No writer on the amaz-
ing campaign has felt the pull of its
glamorous aspects more truly or more
curiously than he. He was in the war
as a youth, but that was in France. He
did not see Gallipoli until 1926, and at
the time knew nothing whatever about
the campaign. His personal approach to
it is worth giving:
None of my readers can be less aware
of the campaign in Gallipoli than f was
in the autumn of 1926, and should any
Gallipoli man do me the honor of reading
this book I would ask him to understand
that I am assuming on the part of the
reader an ignorance of the campaign as
unsurpassable as my own at that time.
He went ashore ;
... .and from the moment I set foot on
. the waste soil of that lonely bay the penin-
sula held me in thrall. That evening, as the
ship still lay at anchor in Kilia Liman, I
leaned over the deck-rail and watched
darkness descend on the hills of Gallipoli
with a sense of personal loss.
On returning to England he read every
Gallipoli book he Could lay hands on.
From then the glamor held him. He
states how on subsequent visits he “would
go forward to the bows and watch with
a rising exultation the dim outline of the
Peninsula take shape” ; now he under-
stood “what Mr. Compton Mackenzie
had in mind when he wrote that the men
who took part in this campaign had lost
for him the attributes of quotidian
existence and assumed a stature exceeding
that of commonplace mortality.” But
lately—no doubt a natural result of
closely studying the realities of Gallipoli
—he has found the vision fading, and his
book is his attempt to set down a ver-
sion, an explanation, a narrative of Gal-
lipoli before that inspiration entirely
vanishes.
He dedicates his book, without irony,
“to all those who had the good fortune
to serve ] n Gallipoli.” He need not have
ap K ologised .,° n any to “S*
'may do him the honor of reading
his book For to most of them, much.mbit
completely than to one who has studied
the campaign closely and been to the
scene act ‘ on Several times recently-,
Gallipoli is very much a fading vision,
His fine detail—it is really a splendid
re-creation of the scene and action —
will give back to those who were at Gal-
lipoli something of value to them.
The scale of Mr. North’s account in-
, , ~ - rir
” 0t °" ly * c ram Pj“B n on Gallipoli
l,selt ' thou 8 h thls ls dealt w,,h most
thoroughly ; it builds in the background
of the political bickerings and expedients
out of which the campaign emerged, and
with the handicap of which, to its
disaster, it was continued. The separate
onslaughts and fighting are graphically
described, the character of the fighting
men is explored, the failures are analysed,
the scene is wonderfully vividly depicted,
the spirit of place is captured—no aspect
°f the matter that Mr. North does not
deal with, and do so splendidly. As the
brief extracts that have been given should
indicate, his account is, too, a lively and
quickened narrative. It is extraordinarily
freshened by his frequently bringing in,
a s occasional asides, usually at chapter-
end-s ’ comparative glimpses of the Penin-
sula as Tt ]ooks 10- da Y, as it most
hkely will continue to look for many years.
The man Y photographs which illustrate
thc book < there is also an excellent lot of
maps) throw a still larger emphasis on
,he contrast between the two Galhpohs,
both for those who know the old Gal-
bPol' from the usual war pictures and
for those who were there - The photo-
S with the title “Anzac,” for
instance, shows a small bunch of sheep
clustered in the shade of a bushy tree,
Wlth a generally grassy foreground, and.
a whlte blocky memorial centred against
the foot of low background range of hill.
These photographs alone will give the
book a fresh and lively interest for many,
? nd add i n B >°» ha ! Mr. North
fiequently €tches in such vignettes tis
this;
To-day, in spring, Helles is green again;
scarrec j so j| j s healed; the labyrinthian
trenches have mouldered away; grapes
bloom in the Vineyard; and from its
northernmost slopes the sheen of the sea
on either hand holds and dazzles the eye.
Sea, earth and sky conspire in “the sort
of sunny silence that must have lain on
. the earth before wars began.” The River
Clyde, under a strange name and foreign
flag, again steams up the Dardanelles,
* carrying coals for Constantinople: she
w j lo once an chored off Sedd el Bahr with
a Cfirgo G f heroes—“they, too, bound for
Constantinople.”
Other of his arresting vignettes;
To . day an omniprcse „; aspect of evil
still overshadows the lonely plain of Suvla.
Even in the bright sun it is dark with
sinister suggestion. Scattered bones still
upon its “desolate and abominable
M s f 5 MJ ybrea k
but; neither advance nor recede on its un-
trodden beaches seem to set up a pause in
time and everlastingly to unfold the story
of its past. One is glad to be gone....
jhe storms of twenty winters, together
with the all-concealing scrub, have erased
fron -1 Anzac every contemporary memorial
its rnig b t > r P a st ; but in the Cove itself
there Stand to th lS day two huge boilers,
embedded d in thc sand and protected
by a solid screen of concrete. They belong
to a condensing plant that was being in-
stalled on the beach during the last days
of November. Two of its boilers were
damaged beyond repair by shells from a
battery behind Gaba Tepe: they had been
"put ashore at the wrong placed* [As
the Anzacs were.] The other tw© still
stand sentinel in the shelter of Plugged
Plateau —although they were never in use]
they arrived “too la ted* [As men and
guns and most things did at Gallipoli.] In
Anzac Cove —once the port of a great
city'—no other Vestige remains of' a dead
and yet deathless episode in the story Of
aft Empire that sent out to her countries
of the Southern. Cross a call fBr help;
nor called in vain.
Controversial aspects of Mr. North’s
hook ard passed over in this review,
though they are too essential a part of
the work to be overlooked altogether.
Typical, then, is Mr. North’s caustic com-
ment on the Australian Official His-
torian’s report upon Churchill’s part in
the campaign: “The explanation would
appear to be that no amount of.reason-
ing will eradicate a prejudice once it is
firmly rooted in the mind.” He submits
that the Churchillian voice of prophecy
has since been lavishly vindicated, and
he states: —
Mr! Churchill was responsible for die
inauguration of the campaign; and to-day
it is- no longer in doubt that the cam-
<paign was brilliantly conceived.
But
His personal responsibility as First Lord
ceased within a month and a day of the
first landing of these troops. Me had no
personal responsibility whatsoever for the
actual conduct of the operations; he had
no direct contact with the fleet, and the
Sea Lords through whom he had to work
were “at the best half-hearted; at the
worst, actively antagonistic.”
Mr. North’s defence of Churchill is
much more thorough than those extracts
can make clear, but they serve to indi-
cate the* trend of it. The book, however,
is considered here rather on its general
performance. And in that it is a fine
piece of work.
C. M.
Poetry in an
Anthology
In the ordinary
Way, I have a
hearty detestation
of anthologies:
but The Poet’s
Tongue soothes
my savage breast. Mr. Auden is perhaps
the most intelligent and certainly the
best technician among the younger
poets: Mr. Garrett is a critic of shrewd-
ness and sensitivity: and, unlike too
many poetic anthologies, this really is
an anthology of poetry.
The chief interest of anthologies is
the revelation of individual tastes, and
very often one finds it a morbid interest.
I am positive that incalculable harm
has been done because the ingenuous
public has been led, in school and out of
school, to identify poetry with the sort
of stuff anthologists generally choose.
But Mr. Auden and Mr. Garrett know
poetry, especially English poetry, when
they see it; and their anthology is a
healthy corrective to innumerable
anthologies which have preceded it. One
hopes with a desperate ■ but lively hope
that the people who prescribe for schools
will hit upon it.
Poetry, as the editors point out, is of
no importance until it is realised in one’s
consciousness; and its province is thg
whole province of experience, and not
only the solemn passages. It is a natural
expression of normal men, not merely
the thoughtful musings of the excep-
tionally educated: there is poetry for
every level of consciousness, and it is
one of the symptoms of our troubles
that the creation and apprehension of
poetry at the popular levels are largely
lost, and poetry survives only as a highly
intellectualised exercise for the highly
intellectualised. Mr. Auden and Mr.
Garrett are highly intellectualised young
men, but they can comprehend poetry at
popular levels, and they have set them-
selves in this book to break down the
snobbishness which approves “Kublu
Khan” as poetry, but denies
1 wish I were a
Elephant iapus—■
and .
Beautiful soup, so rich and greeii.
The First Part of the anthology is an
introduction to poetry at the more
popular levels: nursery rhymes, broad-
sheets, folk songs, ballads, carols, sea
chanties, nonsense verse, and lyrics which
may be expected to evoke ready response
from all but the perversely educated.
An alphabetical arrangement has given
surprisingly happy juxtapositions and
variety: Lawrence’s “Bat” is between
“John Dory” and “Away, Haul Away,
Boys, Haul Away Together”: Belloc’s
“Lord Lundy from His Earliest Years”
is between “Long the Proud Spanish
Had Vaunted to Conquer Us” and “The
Maid of the Moor.” ’“Boney Was a
Warrior” and “Come, All Gallant Sea-
men That Unite a Meeting’* are sepa-
rated by Yeats’s exquisite “Call Down the
Hawk from the Air.” The effect of
this variety is not an effect of casual
medley: on the contrary, a spiritual
unity appears which is almost always
lacking from those careful arrangements
according to Subject which the duller
anthologists love, and Often lacking, tod,
from a chronological the
essential quality of all poetry is stressed
by these alphabetical chances, and One
perceives very readily that the function
of the chantyman is a function not
remote from Shakspeare's or •Hopkins’s :
all poetry is “memorable speech” which
communicates with the human heart and
natural rhythm. Poetry speaks for mart,
not for a pasteurised corner of life: it
is “profound and shallow, sophisticated
and naive, dull and witty, bawdy and
chaste in turn.”
The Second Part is concerned with
subtler experiences: it opens with Eliot
and Wordsworth, but Emily Dickinson,
Lewis Carroll and Cyril Tourneur appear
in a group between Dryden and Marvell,
and Dunbar, E. V. Knox and Hopkins
follow George Herbert. The selections
generally are extraordinarily good and
constantly insist, on the catholicity of
good taste. I have found that the
anthology comes as a revelation to
people who read their last verses at
school: while the school-child who does
not respond to it is a soul damned by
teaching. The fun of the thing Is height-
ened by its anonymous order: one has
to turn up the index to discover art
author’s name, and one’s reading is con-
sequently a pretty exercise in judgment
and discernment. In short, the antholo-
gists have admirably met their own rules
for anthologists:
First, one must overcome the prejudice
that poetry is uplift and show that poetry
can appeal to every level of consciousness.
We do not want to read “great” poetry
all the time, and a good anthology should
contain poems for every mood. Secondly,
one must disabuse people of the idea that
poetry is primarily an escape from reality.
We all need escape at times, just as we
need food and sleep, and some escape
poetry there must always be. One must
not let people think either that poetry
never enjoys itself, or that it ignores the
grimmer aspects of existence. Lastly, one
must show those who come to poetry for
a message, for calendar thoughts, that they
have come to the wrong door, that poetry
may illuminate but it will not dictate.
Among the modern work is Day
Lewis’s poem (from A Time to Dance)
on two great Australians. I wonder how
many Australian school-children (or
(i Continued on page 4 .>


'•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’—AIways.
**The Senior Store ” "While I Live I’ll Grow
Anthony Horderns
f
/
■ ■
Although the price of Wool is still
advancing, Anthony Horderns’ offer
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear at last
year’s prices. Undoubtedly NOW is
the time to buy Winter Woollens.
When present stocks are sold prices
are bound to advance.
IS*
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
<*2
L
smm&ss&ix
Regd. Trade Mark.
“JUMBUK” (Regd. Trade Name)
Quality Underwear Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
“Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of
winter. Its natural warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected
long staple Pure Woollen Yarn—the soft, down-like surface of the fabric is
flawless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its
winter warmth the stored-up virtues of our Country’s Glorious Sunshine.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is guaranteed unshrinkable, and the wide range of sizes
stocked enables every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
The IDEAL WINTER WEAR for MEN!
“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets, in Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style;- self-bound neck and arm-
holes. Sizes, 34- to 44-inch chest. Price, each 5/9
Men’s “Jumbuk” Combinations, Natural All Wool. Winter weight.
0 Men's Mercery —Ground Floor, George,
Street. Freight paid to all Railway Stations
in N.S.W. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
BUY FLEECY “JUMBUK”
No. 220-— “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Light weight.
UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS!
No. 15—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Light weight 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6
No. 25X—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter
weight
Sizes, inches . 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves 3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/6 6/3
Combinations 6/3 6/9 7/3 8/- 8/9
# Boys’ Mercery—First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Seaports
in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
’Phone; M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


■
m
il;, .
W'-" ' ~
Get mote, ynototom
tot. t/otiA. mon
P ' WITH ' . .
Super Plume uM
A THE 5 POWER PETROL /
IIEAROSOI Mobiloil
PRACTICALLY 100%PURE LUBRICANT
adults, for that matter) have heard the
strong measure of
Sing we the two lieutenants, Parer and
Mclntosh,
After the War wishing to hie them home to
Australia, .
Planned they would take a high way, a
hazardous crazy airway:
Death their foregone conclusion, a flight head-
long to failure
We said . . .
. . . Over Hounslow huddled in morning mist
They rose and circled like buzzards while we
rubbed our sleepy eyes:
Like a bird scarce-fledged they flew, whose
flying hours are few—
Still dear is the nest but deeper its desire
unto the skies . . .
Like a tired horse at the water-jumps, they
jockeyed her over seas,
Till they came at last to a land whose dynas-
ties of sand
Had seen Alexander, Napoleon, many a strad-
dling invader,
But never none like these ...
Try chanting that aloud; better, get a
group of children chanting it aloud;
and then ask whether poetry is dead, ask
the children whether poetry is dry.
TYLL OWLGLASS.
Uneducated
Shaw
In his naive
and spirited hero-
worship of Shaw
“F. S.” (R. P.
22/4/’36) would
have the works of
his hero pedestailed beyond criticism,
since nobody is competent to criticise
Shaw who has less knowledge than
Shaw, and everybody has less knowledge
than Shaw because if anyone had that
knowledge he would be producing
creative works equal to Shaw’s, and
nobody is.
Even accepting “F.S.’s” authority and
conclusion in this assertion, the theory
still seems hollow. Lacking Shaw’s ability
and urge to write plays, one is incom-
petent to criticise the plays Shaw pro-
duces. Well, the cabinet-maker knows
infinitely more about cabinet-making
than I do, but I have faculty of obser-
vation and perception, and if he delivers
me a one-legged chair I think I am quali-
fied to deliver a criticism. And if Mr.
Shaw tries to fob off on to me an
automaton for a man, I think I am
equally qualified to criticise simply out
of my powers of perception, irrespective
of whether or not I am Shaw’s inferior
as a writer of plays. I suggest that there
is such a faculty as the critical faculty,
and that it may be as highly organised
or developed in one man as the creative
faculty is in another. To suggest, as
“F.S.” does, that anyone who adversely
criticises Shaw is a detractor of Shaw
and therefore reprehensible is about as
far as it is possible to go in hero-worship,
the blindest, because the most uncritical,
of all pursuits.
Neither is there anything but hollow-
ness and prejudice in another of “F.S.’s’
theories, closely related to the foregoing.
This is the suggestion that a well-edu-
cated man is ipso facto a man stuffed
with disabling fallacies. I think I know
the origin of this theory, and “F.S.” is
not the only one who accepts it. It
originates in what “F.S.” would prob-
ably hotly deny possession of —that is,
an overweening faith in the powers of
schooling. “F.S.” is really shocked
because, in spite of schooling, a lot of
critics are bad critics and a lot of artists
are bad artists. He believes that school-
ing should be enough to turn a moujik
into a Tolstoi, and he is so resentful at
the appalling evidence that it cannot suc-
ceed in this marvellous deed that he
turns and rends education. His pride in
Shaw’s having been uneducated is one
with this general misconception.
The confusion is with education and
schooling. The fact is that Shaw is a
highly-educated man; where he got his
education is of no importance whatever.
The fallacy is in advancing that Shaw
could never have become Shaw had he
had a good schooling to begin with, in-
stead of being, as “F.S.” quaintly be-
lieves, “without education,” deliberately
“avoiding to submit to the ordinary pro-
cesses of education.” If “F.S.” will look
into the record of genius he will find at
least as many well-schooled men as un-
schooled men. But all who have an innate
faith in schooling are puzzled because
the extension of it in modem days to the
mass of mankind does not turn every
poor clod into a flaming genius. There-
fore, it must be damaging to ability, and
a man who, early in his life, in his most
receptive days, has become “familiar
with the most celebrated productions of
the human mind” is thereby destroyed.
Prejudice is a red-hot pepper, but it does
not often blind a man more thoroughly
than that.
The truth seems to me to be that, as
life is an unfathomable mystery, genius,
the flower of life, is the mystery flower
of a mystery. To suggest that it is not
only not nourished but stultified by its
awareness of the high productions of
the human mind —that is to say, edu-
cated —seems to me to be a fallacy whose
holders would logically kowtow to an
aboriginal as their proper joss.
KIRIB.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Gallipoli: The Fading Vision John North.
Nanda Devi Eric Shipton.
The Olive Field Ralph Bates.
THE new book on Gallipoli reviewed
on page 2 —John North’s Gallipoli ;
The Fading Vision— is so fine a piece of
work on general literary grounds that
it can be recommended without any
qualifications whatsoever. Anyone who
likes a good book will like this one.
In the same general terms Eric Ship-
ton’s dazzling story of mountaineering in
the Himalayas can be recommended out
of hand. Nanda Devi (Hodder and
Stoughton; from Dymock’s; 17s. 6d.)
is an account of the brilliant piece of
mountaineering exploration and adventur-
ing carried through by the author and
his companion, H. W. Tilman, with three
Sherpas for porters, in 1934. In this
thrilling enterprise they penetrated into
what Hugh Ruttledge, who writes a fore-,
word to their book, describes as “the
‘inner sanctuary’ of the Nanda Devi
Basin —a place only 75 miles from
Almora, yet hitherto more inaccessible
than the North Pole.” “At last,” Mr.
Ruttledge adds, “men have set foot upon
the slopes of the greatest mountain in
the British Empire.” The entry into that
extraordinary place was made in several
difficult thrusts, in weather that is habitu-
ally bad, the expedition daily so hazard-
ous, the surroundings—especially at the
journey’s end-—so strange and awful, with
such fearful and glorious beauty by the
way, that if this clear, objective and, if
anything, somewhat restrained account
were a work of the imagination it would
seem wildly fanciful. Following them in
what amounts to a progress by sur-
mounting one seemingly impossible
obstacle only to be confronted by an
obstacle that seems more impossible still,
the reader will one day be hanging in
mid-air suspended from nothing and there-
abouts will hear Mr. Shipton comment
on a solitary bharal far up in the heights:
It was difficult to understand what brings
these animals to such altitudes. Three
thousand feet below was perfect grazing,
and neither man nor beast to molest them.
Their lives must be wonderfully carefree,
and one would expect them to be content
to grow fat and lazy down below; instead
of which they seemed to spend most of
their time climbing about precipices of
astonishing steepness, risking their necks
on crevice-covered glaciers, and going as
far as possible from food and comfort.
Only one thing could possibly be better
than that —the comment of the bharal on
Mr. Shipton. For, with his companions
—the Sherpas are splendid characters for
enlivening and decorating a story—Mr.
Shipton succeeds in getting into situa-
tions that even the bird which flies back-
wards would hardly have risked. On
the way Mr. Shipton has a good eye for
the colossal beauty that is everywhere
about him, and for once in a book of
mountaineering —such books are singu-
larly heavy as a rule —his pen is equal
to the large job of conveying his sensa-
tions and observations to the reader,
especially when, in the closing chapters,
the adventurers are among the falling ice,
in the thunderous chasms, in the terrible
situations which to them are glory. The
book is beautifully produced, with a fine
lot of photographs.
Writing of adventuring in such places
as those, Mr. Shipton has large advan-
tages: he has only to talk mildly about
what he has looked on to fill his pages
with thrill. Anyone who, by way of
utter contrast, has ever looked on an
extensive area of olive trees will know
that no advantages of that kind favor
Ralph Bates in the setting of his large,
capital novel, The Olive Field (Cape;
from Angus and Robertson; 9s. 6d.).
This is a novel of revolutionary Spain
from 1932 to 1934, with a strong lean-
ing towards the revolutionaries. But to
most readers that aspect of the hovel
will be its least important —as it is, in-
deed, to Mr. Bates himself. Some will
be most taken with the deep, rich quality
of the writing ; it is prose of a richness
rare in novels at all times, and seldom
at all to be found in novels of the length
of this one. This prose treats largely of
the olive —the budding, the fresh growth,
blossom and the ripe fruiting, harvesting
and the oil —and its own quality is some-
thing of a compound of all this freshness
and richness. There is a large and very
interesting range of characters, from the
Marquis who owns almost all this great
southern olive field which is the main
setting, through several dozen other
characters whom he virtually owns as
well. The individual stories of all these
characters provide separate threads of
narrative, holding interest against a
reader not finding the vast amount of
olive lore engaging, though this will be
exceptionally interesting to most; but the
personal element of the novel narrows to
three persons as it goes on—two insepar-
able youths and the girl one of them
loves and the other takes, and whose own
love, as between one and the other of
them, is never clearly established. A
blend of racy comedy enlivens the narra-
tive, as do also, in the physical sense, the
violent spasmodic revolutionary outbursts
and clashes. The eventual retreat from
the scene of his one-time glory of the
Marquis is possibly the least effective
occurrence in the novel, but the events
from which this arises—the powerful
mayordomo ruling the Marquis’s estates,
his sudden end, and the Marquis’s dis-
covery of his defalcations, and the why
of them—these things make up a core
of story strong enough to sustain a fine
novel on their own. But it is the thing
as a whole that is grand—the representa-
tion of the entire life about these olive
fields and the town they support; the
religious element; the revolutionary cle-
ment; the ordinary human element; the
temperamental, dancing, guitar-strum-
ming and otherwise picturesque people, a
dozen, at least, of them projected in bril-
liant character construction —it is all of
this together, its spaciousness, its con-
tinuity from a distant past, which make
the novel a powerful and beautiful thing.
But those who go to fiction for a seda-
tive, for a simple story to soothe simple
should leave it alone.
Port of Call: Christine Campbell
Thomson (Philip Allan; 3s. 6d.). Love
and Murder in Algeria” says the dust
jacket. The romance comes to nothing,
and the murder is a very ordinary killing.
The Last Enemy : Violet M. Methley
(Blackie and Son ; 7s. 6d.). A couple of
quite interesting murders. Two chief
weaknesses: the obviousness of the mur-
derer and the ending in which he ex-
plains where he obtained the poison,
the secret of which he had acquired
amongst the cannibalistic tribes of North-
ern Australia. It was a compound made
up of the venom of a certain intensely
poisonous snake, with an admixture ol
raw, decomposed human flesh. The natives
used it for the tips of their blowpipe darts
and spear-points, and it was the deadliest
■ and most rapid poison known to them,
so treasured that he only obtained a small
quantity of it at the risk of his life.
The Rocky Road to Jericho: Frank
Chester Field (Philip Allan; 7s. 6d.).
Mormonism from a sympathetic angle.
Characterisation, story, telling, all are
good. The author —his parents were
converted to Mormon ism—is concerned
with the founding of Salt Lake
City and with the sincere faith
of a people who were willing to
undergo persecution and exile, first from
Missouri and later from Illinois, rather
than deny their beliefs. To them Joseph
Smith was a Prophet, one who had talked
with God and angels, and they were fol-
lowers of a new revelation.
White Horses Ride Home: Bridget
Amery (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). Religion has
a large part, though not so insistent a
part, in this novel also. The heroine, a
young Melbourne pianiste, forgets her
possibilites of a brilliant career to marry
a philandering actor, a non-practising
Jew. They are not happy, and in London
they nearly starve before he dies a con-
sumptive. At the end she is going io
marry his cousin, and hopes to find peace
of soul in Liberal Judaism. In parts
interesting, but somewhat tedious, and
sentiment has been poured over it with
a ladle.
Shark Gotch of the Islands: A. R.
Wetjen (World’s Work ; 7s. 6d.). The
breezy American who lately gave Sydney
a look-over puts a plough into the rich
field whose first sods were turned by
Louis Becke (who knew his South Seas),
and .which later provided pabulum for
John Russell (who drew mostly on a pro-
lific imagination). Shark Gotch is a cut
between Cap’n Kettle and Hopalong Cas-
sidy, and he draws so quickly and shoots
so frequently and with such devastating
effect that the local color doesn’t much
matter. The yarn epitomises four epi-
sodes in the hero’s career, and it marches
so briskly that the half-promise that the
series will be continued is welcome,-
despite the fact that snorts of derision are
likely to greet Mr. Gotch in the locali-
ties where he is said to have flourished.
Good by Stealth: Henrietta Clandon
(Geoffrey Bles; 7s. 6d.). First-person
story of a woman who goes to gaol for
sending anonymous letters to people
against whom she has a grudge, her great
trouble the entire lack of any sense of
humor. It would have made a splendid
short story—the woman’s character,
strange as it is, is made quite credible—
but as a novel it’s unbelievably tedious.


*]o,ooo
60,000
e average Life
ends at
fifty-five
\
k
too.
000
forty
the fiffkt
is hardest
90,000
>**■
S 0,000
The fight
fm* mm life
is partly won
io
u.
/
m
mil
M
2^
Steeper : \
and Steeper '
slants the Line
&
7
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
iO,OOO
Of EARS 5 JO t 5 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105
Thy Age 40
is often the turning point in health
• • • guard Yourself against these insidious
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women . ,
f
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended ;5, 1 o—or more—years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
ACCORDING to averages,, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see. Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it !
Medical science now declares that 15% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
| here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISONS
k::;.cv & biadseb
0 PILLS
Si L
n
-tfARRI SON'S
KIDNEY and DUwDbR
PI LL.S
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches & Pains &
Make You QUICKLY Young & Well Again 1


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
-V
■ H
: • Sp
nm
;. H
■
Hi
m
■
B
■ m
-
m
m
■
H
'■ > V!
'•
*C- ”
111181111
sa
■■
■
ws
g
SB
hs
:■:■'■ B W
Hk
Bag
B
mi m
m
: : ' : ';.r ■'
Hi
I
8 •' 8 I
mm
~
mm
,x: .
■
ss
Mi
m
‘ i
■
::■•
m
mm
::
MK
•| ■. - -
Hi
MS
MMI
From This Small Beginning in 1851 Grew Seppeltsheld of To-day.
./iffJett c M/ie efi-ane Mcuoml


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2933.
April 29, 1936.
LAST PHASE.
“Stop, I say, stop! The League insists on your listening to a few more speeches on the great subject of collective security.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
i s iralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington. .
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. {Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America. 3d. To all other places, 4d.
BRITAIN’S APPALLING POLICY.
At last nobody can have any doubt about how Italy’s
conquest of Abyssinia is shaping. The sweeping nature
of the Italian victory has forced even cable-crammers
to abandon their one-eyed reporting, and worse, and
admit that Abyssinia is a taken country.
Yet, with Mr. Baldwin excusing and Mr, Eden’s
every utterance making the name of the British
Foreign Office ridiculous throughout the world, the
foreign policy of Britain enunciated by these gentle-
men and endangering the British Empire over the past
seven months is still to be pursued. Mr. Eden, whose
almost every statement is a hysterical faux pas, even
suggests individual action by Britain, apparently to
prevent a conquered country from being conquered.
It is past time these gentlemen were told that
the hundreds of thousands of Dominions lives their
policy of romantic interference endangers are too
great a sacrifice to be laid down to their folly. There
is a limit to patience, and if that is not now reached
—if Dominions leaders are still prepared to entrust
the lives of the youth they represent to the dangers
of a so-called British policy that has twisted and turned
for these last seven months, and met failure at every
turn —then there is nothing more certain than that the
youth of these Dominions will soon enough be sheep
in a slaughter hazardous, and maybe fatal, to the
Empire. More, it will be a slaughter not suffered for
the holding of this Empire, but for the upholding of
a decadent, artificial, utterly ineffectual political mis-
conception in which no sane man any longer trusts,
and in which few sensible men ever have trusted.
To-day the League and its shibboleth of collec-
tive security are proved beyond all reasonable doubt
to be not only weak and ineffectual, but terribly
dangerous. They are not merely potentially danger-
ous. The most arresting thing about the conquest of
Abyssinia is the extent to which that country has been
disillusioned over its trust in the League. It is even
feasible that without the League it would not easily
have been taken. It might well have been able to
import arms and forces sufficient for a resistance com-
parable with that of the Boer Republics. The League,
implicitly promising protection, prevented that.
The League saw its own member Italy mass
against this other member the power of a formidable
modernly-equipped fighting force, and still the prohi-
bition of the import of arms to Abyssinia was main-
tained. When the ban was lifted Abyssinia was already
desperately defending its unprotected frontiers. Still
the League promised largely. It talked “sanctions”
and “blockade” for months ; eventually it imposed
some miserable denials of loans and imports, such
as vegetables, and exports, such as fish. Oil, the one
commodity that was a vital sinew of war—ltaly has
won the war with oil —this was not touched, several
of the “sanctions”-imposing countries being large
suppliers, and others large carriers, of oil to Italy
throughout.
Also, to the disaster of Abyssinia, as it turns out,
the entire League action did nothing but spur the
attacking nation. The mere imposing of “sanctions,”
coupled with the wholly ex-League massing of the
British Fleet in the Mediterranean, bound the hitherto
lethargic Italian people into a national entity. Again,
the haphazard “sanctions” pointed the need for sharp,
decisive military action, with results that are now
admittedly triumphant, whereas a leisurely campaign,
with the seasonal rains intervening, might possibly
have had different results. And at one stage a condi-
tional peace, without the humiliation of defeat —the
Hoare-Laval proposal—was available to Abyssinia
and destroyed by that country’s “friends.”
Abyssinia certainly has nothing for which to
be grateful to the League. Yet this incredible farce
is to be continued ; and the people who call them-
selves the leaders of the Dominions have not a voice
among them to protest against it. Mr. Baldwin lays
it down that “collective security, backed by ‘sanctions’ ”
is to remain the whole of Britain’s foreign policy,
and there is not one Dominions voice to suggest that
the farce has gone far enough. If it is good enough
for Britain’s momentary political spokesmen, then
surely it is good enough for us —that is the extent
of the leadership of the leaders of these Dominions.
Not a constructive suggestion from any one of them.
It is pitiful because, when circumstances have forced
the inevitable change in Britain’s foreign policy—the
return to a strong and strong-knit Empire minding
its own business —these same inept, bewildered people
will hooray with the rest, and claim that policy, also,
as their own.
Meanwhile, even the irrepressible Mr. Eden has
their implicit confidence and support. It is not too
much for their negative indolence to swallow that
the foreign-affairs record of this handsome busybody
will likely stand indefinitely as the most arrogant,
deliberately provocative and hysterically dangerous
that Britain’s Foreign Office has ever known. Mr.
Eden has certainly given British foreign policy a new
position in the world: for the first time it is a laugh-
ing-stock.
Even the League’s bungling of the Italo-Abys-
sinian affair Mr. Eden has managed to appropriate
wholly to the discredit of Britain, so that the futile
attempts to thwart Italy have appeared throughout
to represent a British and not a League impotence.
All that the Edenish policy has done in this affair
is to lose for Britain and the Dominions of the Pacific
a great amount of trade and risk the permanent aliena-
tion of an old friend now increasingly strong in
the Red Sea. Even this is not the last service
Mr. Eden promises to do us. His characteris-
tically provocative pronouncement on the Italian suc-
cess and the consequent League collapse is that “each
nation will have to consider separate action.”
There is not one voice in Dominions “leadership”
to question what that action is to be or why it is
mentioned. It will be all one to our “leaders” if it
means that, the League having miserably failed to
prevent the Italian conquest, Britain (and ourselves
with it) must now fight to sabotage the victory.
Clearly it is past time that Mr. Baldwin and his crew
were told that there is no enthusiasm whatever for
anything of that kind. If there is one independent
voice of constructive leadership anywhere in the
Dominions, it will say now flatly that the Dominions
are unquestionably with Britain in any threat to the
British Commonwealth, but they emphatically are
not with Britain in the sort of war that British foreign
policy has blundered along the crust of for the past
seven months
“A NORMAL BUSINESS.”
Captain F. W. Haig, a Vacuum Oil aviation officer,
returned from overseas last week and remarked that
there was “no more romance in aviation.” Flying,
he said, had become a “normal business subject to
the routine of cost and return,” and “the day of the
individual is gone.”
The country in which Captain Haig formed these
impressions is the U.S.A. There, airlines fly
10,000,000 miles a month on courses mapped with
the exactitude of terrestrial highways, between aerial
beams. There, all commercial ’planes have night-
flying apparatus which puts pilots beyond fear of fog
and darkness; have also radio-telephones which
give them incessant weather reports and relieve them
of decisions in unexpected situations, while keeping
their headquarters in touch with them and their posi-
tions. In a country whose commercial air routes are
dotted with emergency landing grounds so closely
that a pilot passing one at ordinary height comes into
gliding distance of the next, it would be surprising
if flying were not a prosaic, everyday affair.
Australia knows another normality in flying; the
normality of obsolescence and administrative inade-
quacy ; a normality which fails to provide proper
safeguards. Let anybody who doubts it look at the
list of aerial mishaps during the year to April 24.
In June, 1935, there were approximately 260 air-
craft in Australia, inclusive of Defence ’planes. For
the year to April 24 there were 96 accidents, ranging
from forced landings and hoggings to smashes involv-
ing the death of all on board. Such was the crash
at Cordeaux Dam (N.S.W.), in which five lives were
lost: the result of the pilot of a passenger ’plane
bound from Young to' Sydney taking a chance after
dark —no regulation forbade—and having neither
beacon nor direction-finding station to guide him when
he lost his way. Since January 1 this year there have
been 30 aerial mishaps and tragedies.
Down the years, pilots and passengers have had
to be rescued from the bush. Lives have been saved
by daring landings on beaches along air routes in
daily use by passenger ’planes. And, in proportion
to numbers, there have been as many accidents to
official as to civil machines. The Defence Department
record for two years:
R.A.A.F. bomber somersaults at Laverton (Vic.).
Wapiti crashes at Point Cook ; air cadet killed.
Air Force ’plane wrecked near Point Cook ; two
injured. Air Force flying boat stranded, Cape
York. ’Plane overturned; air cadet injured. ’Plane
breaks in air; flying officer killed. ’Plane crashes
in dense mist; air cadet killed. Hawker Demon
overturned, making forced landing. Hawker Demon
crashes into crowd at Swansea (Tas.); two women
killed. Air Force ’plane fouls telephone wires at
Mudgee (N.S.W.). ’Plane crashes at Parkes. Air
cadet killed at Point Cook, entangled in parachute.
’Plane wrecked at Werribee; pilot parachutes down.
Last, but not least:
R.A.A.F. ’plane missing in North Australia.
It was lost on April 13. It was found on April
22 in “difficult country,” 85 miles n.-w. of Newcastle
Waters, crashed but with the crew safe. It was a
’plane on survey work; a Dragon Rapide, such as is
used in Britain for cross-Channel services by smaller
airlines, with a normal range of 590 miles, extended
to 700 miles by increasing fuel capacity. With three
men aboard —a flight-lieutenant and two aircrafts-
men —it left Camooweal (Q.) on a clear morning to
fly to Hall’s Creek (W.A.), 800 miles away. Lieutenant
Hely had the choice of landing for petrol at New-
castle Waters or Wave Hill. He might have reached
Wave Hill, the more distant place, in 4-£ hours at the
ordinary cruising speed of 136 m.p.h. The Dragon
Rapide, however, was not seen for nine days after it
passed Brunette Downs. It ran out of juice.
It is necessary to understand that a ’plane travel-
ling from Camooweal to Hall’s Creek would take
the Imperial air-mail route over the Barkly Table-
land to the overland telegraph line, and the rest of
the journey would also be over routes flown regu-
larly with mail. The last part roughly follows the
general direction of the old Murranji track. That
track passes through much country so poor that no-
body wishes to own it. Desert fringes it. In drought-
time visibility is obscured by a curtain of red sand
brought up from the south by a biting monsoon wind.
In “the wet” some of it is impassable. It was in this
region that Keith Anderson and Hitchcock lost their
lives, as did many a wayfarer before them. Yet, like
the monotonous plains of the Barkly, where the
only guide to the flier is a tenuous double-wheel track
through Mitchell grass, it has no beacons, no emer-
gency ration stations, and no landing grounds worth
the name.
As for means of communication, the radio of the
Dragon Rapide was not finished before it left Rich-
mond (N.S.W.), and apparently it was considered
that the hiring of a plant would have been too great
an expense. Anderson and Hitchcock had no wire-
less. The lesson was wasted on the tin gods who are
expected to look after these matters.
The need for beaconing and safeguarding the
region in which these men were lost has been pointed
out again and again. But there was no tinge of regret
for shortcomings in official announcements. Half a
dozen ’planes were engaged in the search. Two were
front-line fighting machines, totally unsuited for the
job for which they were requisitioned, and too valu-
able to be risked on it except as a last resource.
But Ministerial and bureaucratic complacency
remains undisturbed. There is a new Air Board,
charged with the task of spending in a year a whole
£124,000 —nearly twice as much as the cost of the
Royal Commission on Wheat —on improvements to
capital-city aerodromes and those located on main
air routes. Mr, Parkhill is proud that a “temporary
direction-finding station” has been built at Darwin and
that at the other end of the continent a radio range
beacon has been established at Mascot —a facility
which every modern ’drome overseas has had for
years. And “delays on air-mail services due to
bogginess and badness of surfaces” have been almost
swept away by “the efficiency of general improve-
ment works.”
A high standard of safe operation has been
achieved, says Mr. Parkhill. Flying, indeed, in parts
of Australia, settled as well as unsettled, is now almost
as safe as war, judging by the casualties.
OUR WANDERING OLD BOYS.
N. S. Wales taxpayers who have been wondering why
Premier Stevens went to London have been answered
by his Minister of Mines. Mr. Stevens has gone to
London to study the question of extracting oil from
coal. He has pre-eminent qualifications for the study,
being an accountant,
Queensland taxpayers are familiar with the
reason which took their Premier (with private secre-
tary) to London. He was “selected by the sugar indus-
try to represent Queensland at the international
conference.” He left Brisbane in December, and he
is expected back at the end of July (with private
secretary). There was no conference.
P. H. M. Goldfinch, M.L.A. for Gordon and g.m.
of Colonial Sugar, is also in London. Elected in
November, he made one speech in Parliament and
then set out on his travels, having been selected by
his company to attend the international conference
that Mr. Smith failed to find. Some of his constituents
are quite huffy about it.
N. S. Wales Police Commissioner Mackay is
another who has heard London calling. He was
promoted only a few months ago, but “accrued leave”
is due to him, and that means full salary all the time
he is away, plus £BOO expenses furnished by the Gov-
ernment. (Its 1934-35 deficit was only £2,298,900, the
Commonwealth having come to light wffh a grant of
£786,000.) Railway Commissioner Hartigan and
Transport Commissioner Maddocks are not long back
from glorious overseas trips, and why shouldn’t Com-
missioner Mackay have his turn? It is the Golden
Age of commissioners.
State Attorney-General Manning is in London to
appear for N. S. Wales in James v. the Common-
wealth. and Federal Attorney-General Menzies is
there to argue for the Commonwealth. Mr. Manning
has been watching his brief since January—the case
is now expected to come on in May. Mr. Menzies
was more careful of his country’s time. But since he
cast up in London it has been stated that, in addi-
tion to his Commonwealth salary (the equivalent of
which, it is admitted, he would never have accepted
as a private practitioner), he is to receive a fee of
£2OOO for watching the interests of the Victorian
Government and certain export-control boards, and
the statement has not been denied.
With Mr. Menzies is fellow-Minister Page. He,
like Mr. Smith and Mr. Goldfinch, set out to attend
the sugar conference that never was on sea or land ;
but other excuses for his presence in London have
since been found. In these cases they always can be.
Australia has 616 members of Parliament, of
whom 73 are Ministers, and at June 30, 1934 (the
Commonwealth Statistician gives no later figures), it
had 198,697 Government employees, whose numbers
have been added to since. Seeing that so many
Ministers and departmental bosses (with secretaries)
can be spared part of the time, it is reasonable to
suppose that substantial proportions of the politicians
and Government employees could be spared all of
the time.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Young Men to Die.
With 15 persons, mostly young, under sentence of
death, and two others recently convicted of man-
slaughter, the N.S.W. Cabinet has decided that Edwin
Hickey, aged 18, and Frank Jones, aged 21, shall be
hanged. It did not want to send them to the gallows,
and went to extraordinary lengths to find something
that could be urged in their favor. It could find
nothing except their youth.
Mr. Lang has had the face to declare “that all
this violent juvenile crime is the direct outcome of
the Government’s indifference to the welfare of the
youth of the State ; these people are the victims, more
or less, of the Government’s administration.” In
point of fact, the vilest and cruellest of the crimes
were committed by young ruffians who had jobs—
or had lost them through misbehavior. In two cases
blameless sons of graziers were shot down like dogs
by ferocious runts employed on their fathers’ stations.
Edwin Hickey had a good home to go to. He had
had a job, from which he was dismissed for theft.
Hickey entered a first-class carriage on a Blue Moun-
tains train and there found Montague Henwood, the
State Conciliation Commissioner. This mild old man
(he was 65) he battered to death with a water-bottle,
stripped the body of valuables and flung it out of
the window. Voluble at the trial, and impenitent then
and since, Hickey made an unprintable charge against
his victim, who was returning from seeing his
son admitted to holy orders, one of the most solemn
occasions of his life. The jury rejected the abomin-
able story, and there was no recommendation to mercy.
Frank Jones had been known to the police as a
holdup man. Having served a sentence for breaking
into an outer-suburban railway station, he robbed 20
houses in a month, entering them hooded and armed.
Eventually he attacked the North Strathfield station
with a revolver in each hand, fired on a brave railway-
man who had refused to give him the keys of the safe,
and seriously wounded another man who pluckily
intervened. This man he left shot in the stomach
and weltering in his blood. Finally, the ruffian backed
away pointing his revolvers at two other men, and
threatening to shoot both if they moved.
Because of these crimes, and others as wanton
and brutal, public opinion is seriously alarmed. In
some quarters a veritable reign .of terror exists.
Clemency has been tried and has failed. Capital
punishment is the law of N. S. Wales, and it is useless
for “humanitarian” politicians to plead that a law
which they had many opportunities of repealing should
never be enforced in any circumstances ; vain likewise
to argue that everyone is responsible for murder
except the murderer. The Government would have
liked to save Jones and Hickey. Circumstances have
proved too strong for it, as they proved too strong
for the Westralian Labor Government that sent the
cold-blooded murderers of Detectives Walsh and
Pitman to the scaffold.
——P ♦
With the Italian Armies.
Dr. H. M. Moran, the Macquarie-street (Sydney)
doctor, who was an A.I.F. man and an international
footballer, writes from Asmara, Eritrea —the date is
March 20:
I have been here a month, arriving in time to see the
fever of the great victories which have made sure the
northern front. These successes were obtained in a terrain
which you must see to appreciate. Amba Aradam stands
out like an impregnable fortress. At Amba Alaji it needs
a mountaineer to reach the peak.
I went half-way up on the new road which these wonder-
workers have built so quickly on the steep sides of Alaji.
There I met a medical man who knew old Dr. Thomas
Fiaschi, of Sydney, in the last war. It was Sunday, and
he took me out to see where wretched Ethiopians were
having their ills attended to by Italian medical officers in
a sort of outdoor clinic on the side of the mountain. The
dust of innumerable motor-lorries crawling along the newly-
made road filled the air, for the troops were moving forward,
in great spirits, to fresh victories down near Quoram.
I think the war here will shortly be over. The world
will then realise that if any war in the world was justifiable
this one was. I can only attribute the opposition to it
among our British people to a complete ignorance of all
the facts. The squalor and filth of the natives in upper
Ethiopia are indescribable. I trust that the feeling between
Australians and the Italians in Australia has again become
warm and kindly. I feel strongly that anyone who does
something to re-create the old friendship between Italian and
British citizens is performing a great service to both countries.
To this task I have been giving all ray time since I left
Sydney, and I found in London important people like Mr.
Amery, Sir Edward Grigg and Sir Arnold Wilson who strongly
approved of what some of us were doing.
Italy is more necessary than ever to European peace.
And I know from personal contact that the Duce, j n spite
of all, is animated only by kind feelings towards the British
race. It is up to us then to make a gesture to which the
generous Italian people will not be slow in responding.
4 .
The Former German Colonies.
The Germans are demanding the return of their
former colonies, and British Laborites, Liberals and
some Conservatives are willing to hand them back.
In the case of colonies over which Dominions hold
mandates, these worthies take the consent of the
Dominions for granted.
One of the “arguments” for the return of the
colonies is that it would relieve congestion of popu-
lation ; but would it? Britain is the largest colonial
Power in the world, and Britain would export two
million Britons if it could. But the Dominions cannot
take them. And tropical colonies cannot take them, for
they can only make room for the ruling-class type.
How many Germans were living in German
colonies before the war? A whole 24,000, and of
these 22,000 were in 900,000 square miles of African
territory. In 40 years or so Japan has acquired For-
mosa, Korea, half of Sakhalin and all southern Man-
churia ; but still the overflowing Japanese do not
seem willing to go there. What Mussolini may or
may not do with Abyssinia is highly problematical.
But we do know this, that the European population
of Eritrea, which has been Italian territory for 50
years, amounts to only 4283.
' ♦ -
Moving Sands.
Until the depression anybody who dared to hint that
Australia, like other continents, was in part desert
was looked on as a traitor. Gregory’s name was
anathema. Men of the type of J. B. Cramsie, who
urged the Commonwealth to look facts in the face
15 years ago, were disregarded. All the time, border-
lands of S. Australia and s.-w. Queensland were being
absorbed in a creeping ruin which even politicians
and royal commissioners can no longer ignore.
“S. M. Herald” has discovered the plight of
Broken Hill. In Railway Town many houses have
been deserted. The abattoirs, erected in a sandless
spot where there was good feed 27 years ago, are
now in the midst of a desert where there is a constant
fight to keep the yards from being completely silted
up. Two racecourses have been buried. Some streets
are nine inches deep in pulver.
Less spectacular but more significant is the
decline in stock figures. In the N. S. Wales western
division sheep dwindled from 16,403,000 in 1891 to
6,320,000 in 1934. In numbers per square mile the
descent has been: Sheep, from 130 to 50 ; dairy cattle,
7000 to 2000 ; other cattle, 94,000 to 89,000 ; horses,
50 p.c.
Stations in Central Australia which 40 years ago
were earning good profits and turning off fat cattle
now consist of sandhill after sandhill and wind-swept
claypan after claypan. In the Birdsville region of
Queensland, the sand barrier is rolling on towards
the rich artesian belt, where bore water is gradually
giving out.
It is a problem to which legislators might turn
their minds, even at the expense of such questions
as whether bathing-suits on Sydney beaches should
exhibit more or less back or thigh and whether the
inhabitants of outer suburbs can survive without the
expenditure of a few more millions (borrowed) on
sewerage. The requirements are timber, sand-binding
grasses and rigid control of stocking in areas which
are the source of sand and in the track of the drift.
♦
“Bash Broken Hill Prop.!”
For some reason, unfathomable to ordinary people,
many Australian politicians and agitators are morosely
hostile to the Broken Hill Proprietary. Perhaps it
is because the enterprise is efficient and successful.
Certainly it is a splendid example of what
Australian brains and energy can do when assured
of a fair deal by the national fiscal policy. It has been
the means of giving employment in trying times to
thousands of workmen at good Australian wages, and
it has become a vitally-important asset in the defence
of the Commonwealth. These facts do not prevent
politicians from girding at it and threatening it when-
ever they get a chance ; and when other opportunities
are lacking they make chances.
Labor politicians are the worst (though not the
only) offenders, and Mr. Beasley, M.H.R., leader of
the Lang group, now “unified” with what is, left of
the Scullin group, which it put out of office, is the
most vociferous. Self-styled “industrialists” seem to
have started this curious vendetta. They tried to
injure Broken Hill Prop, by stirring up strikes against
“mechanisation,” as they choose to call it, though
in their beloved Russia “mechanisation,” greatly
extended, is called “Stakhanovism” and praised to the
skies. These measures failing, the tariff occurred to
mischief-makers as a weapon with which Broken Hill
Prop, could be severely smitten, if not brought to its
knees.
The idea delighted Mr. Beasley, and Mr. Curtin
was found willing to oblige, being anxious to promote
the “unity” spirit and apparently to soothe Westralian
Freetraders. So Mr. Curtin has revived what he is
pleased to call “the New Protection,” under which
effective duties on foreign goods are to be granted
as a favor to Australian industry on conditions which
Labor leaders are to fix ; and we find Mr. Beasley
talking in this strain in Mr. Curtin’s presence:
If the Labor party is returned to power there will
be a marked change in its Protectionist policy. A
policy will be introduced which will prevent employers
having it both ways. No longer are we going to carry
on the present willy-nilly policy of Protection: Labor’s
Protection policy will be designed primarily to protect
the public and those who are engaged in the industry.
He said this at Sydney Trades Hall, with Mr.
Curtin nodding approval, and the “Labor Daily” added
the following to its report:
Mr. Beasley said that it was probable that the
Labor Government would make an example of the
Waygood-Otis and Broken Hill Prop, concerns on the
Protectionist issue.
Nothing could be more damaging to Australian
industry.
Australian manufacturers pay wages and observe
working conditions fixed by industrial tribunals, Com-
monwealth and State. On the prices they charge there
is always the check of the tariff, which can be lowered
in case of profiteering; and where profiteering is
alleged there is a Tariff Board to take the evidence
and make recommendations. Australian factories and
workshops are visited by crowds of inspectors. Manu-
facturers have to insure employees against accidents
and occupational diseases, and they pay terrific taxes,
Commonwealth and State. If they are, in addition, to
obey orders capriciously fired at them by party poli-
ticians, the penalty for disobedience being the with-
drawal of Protection, their pbsition will be impossible.
In circumstances so uncertain, industries necessary to
Australia will not be extended, and others, perhaps
equally necessary, will not get started,
Australian industry has too many masters as it
is. If to these are added party politicians, armed
with arbitrary dictates and the latent power to ruin,
it will have no future. For
We’ve proved it again and again,
That if once you have paid him the Dane-geld
You never get rid of the Dane.
♦
Our Inhospitable Sharks.
Mr. Zane Grey is a welcome visitor to these parts,
and it is unfortunate that bloodthirsty Australian
sharks should be continually seeking his life. Already
“A White Death” has “leered up” at him as he looked
over the side of a big, powerful motor craft. An
eight-foot grey nurse —any Australian fisherman would
have it boated and cut up in ten minutes were he short
of bait —sent tremors down his spine by the “cold,
murderous cruelty in its black eye.” Even after being
hung up in the boat it “began to fight” with a previous
capture. His faithful Bill warned Mr, Grey that the
next one might jerk him overboard, whereupon he
would be torn to pieces instantly.
One of the terrible creatures even “made a pass”
at him as he helped to haul it aboard. “ ‘My God,
Bill!’ I gasped,” writes the needlessly startled Mr.
Grey. Another “man-eating shark of the most fero-
cious species” drenched him to the skin by flapping
its tail. Looking at his really very moderate catch
next day, the world-famed angler soliloquised: “It
horrified me to think how often, on Australian
beaches, this engine of destruction has buried such
teeth in human flesh.” Three or four times a year
is about the average. They much prefer dogs.
Now Mr. Grey’s expressed ambition is to catch
a half-ton example of that fearsome beast the wobbe-
gong. He says he’d give something unheard-of to
do it. But the creatures don’t grow over six or seven
feet long, so he is unlikely to attain his ambition. All
the same, the eminent novelist is “fierce to hook and
fight the largest.”
When Mr. Grey gets to Barrier Reef waters he
is quite likely to see some real outsizes in sharks,
large and powerful enough to render their capture
from an ordinary fishing craft a matter of actual risk
for a skilled professional fisherman. In that case, it
is to be feared that the resulting publicity from Mr.
Grey’s typewriter will scare away tourists.
■ ♦ —
An Inter-State Commission.
“There shall be an Inter-State ’Commission, with such
powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament
deems necessary for the execution and maintenance within the
Commonwealth of the provisions of this Constitution relating
to trade and commerce and of all laws made thereunder.”
—Commonwealth Constitution, Section 101.
“There is a real necessity for an Inter-State Com-
mission The Government proposes to re-establish the
commission with such powers as the Constitution now
permits, and to consider later whether any amendments may
be desirable to enable the commission to function effectively.”
—Prime Minister’s policy speech, Sydney, August 13, 1934.
The wording of Section 101 shows that the founders
of the Commonwealth attached great importance to
the work of the Inter-State Commission. But, despite
the promise of the Prime Minister, this work is not
being done.
An Inter-State Commission was established in
1913 by the appointment of three commissioners.
“Unfortunately,” to quote the Prime Minister again,
“when it had been set up a judgment of the High
Court held that Parliament could not confer effective
judicial powers upon the commission, and it was
allowed to lapse.” That judgment might now be
reversed, as other High Court judgments have been,
or the people could make an Inter-State Commission
independent of High Court judgments.
The Act under which the old commission was
appointed charged it with the duty of investigating
matters affecting
(a) production of and trade in commodities; (£>)
encouragement, improvement and extension of Aus-
tralian industries and manufactures; (c) markets outside
Australia and the opening-up of external trade gener-
ally; (d) operation of any tariff law or any other law
affecting revenue, manufactures and industry and trade
generally; (e) prices of commodities; (/) profits of trade
and manufacture; (g) wages and social conditions; (It)
labor and unemployment; (f) bounties paid by foreign
countries to encourage shipping or export trade; (j)
population; (k) immigration; and (/) other matters
referred to the commission by either House.
In the last four years the Government has spent
£90,000 or more on commissions and investigations
on some of these matters, and all to little or no pur-
pose. The Commission on Petrol cost £lO,OOO and
accomplished nothing. A Grants Commission has
been set up to give expensive and irresponsible advice
regarding money payments to States with grievances,
real or alleged—a proper subject for an Inter-State
Commission.
The fathers of the Constitution didn’t go far
enough towards Union, but they saw the need for, and
provided for, a body to define the limits of national
and State authority, to police the trade and commerce
powers, and to carry out important investigations of
inter-State significance. The Lyons Government pre-
fers to spend money like water on nondescript com-
missions and committees.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS
“Katie Keyboard”: I’ve just read a
piece in the paper about a lady in Eng-
land who got a lot of damages out of
another lady for enticing the first lady’s
husband away from her, and I think one
girl in our office ought to read about
what the lady did to the other lady, be-
cause our boss is 63, just like the first
lady’s was that got enticed. It seems the
lady who enticed the first lady’s hus-
band was 31 when she started enticing
him, and only took three years to entice
thousands out of him and most of the
first lady’s allowance, too, and by the
time she was 36 she’d enticed him for all
the first lady’s allowance. And I wouldn’t
like the girl in our office to get mixed up
in an enticing case, because all your ages
have to be printed in the papers ; and,
though she keeps her complexion won-
derfully, I’m sure she wouldn’t like any-
one to tell the world about her real age
like the papers did about the lady which
enticed the first lady’s husband, and the
first lady being 59, too.
“Uramao”: The recent census in
Maoriland presented problems. At one
pah a Maori refused to take delivery of
the paper. A couple of days later the
census man, after another unsuccessful
try, was informed by the recalcitrant’s son
that the old man would not accept the
summons because he thought it was a
call for active service in Abyssinia! In
the wild Urewera country one enumera-
tor had to travel by motor-car, horse and
foot to take tally of 30 whares, the jour-
ney occupying three days. At one time
the job was complicated by Henare’s
entering up his pigs, cows and fowls by
their given names.
“Captain Chaffey”: A man went to a
police-station in Adelaide at 8.45 a.m. to
“take out” the equivalent of a fine for
riding without lights. On making the
usflal search the police found another un-
executed warrant against him—ll years
old and vested in the Child Welfare
Department. But the offender was 22
years of age and now could no longer be
sent to a reformatory. Result: sentence
of one year’s detention cancelled. On the
bicycle charge a lenient police rule exists.
Prisoners are to be released at 9 a.m.
So the fellow “did” a year and a day
in 15 minutes!
* * * *
“Athos”: Quite unlike most dictators,
Herr Hitler is a bachelor and something
of an ascetic. According to all accounts,
he cares little or nothing for what he
wears or for what he eats ; he has no
interest in womankind and no relaxations
except a mild taste for music. It is
interesting to read, consequently, that his
birthday presents —he was 47 the other
day—included
34,000 pairs of socks and 1012 cradles.
The socks are understandable enough,
most misogamists’ footwear tending to
deteriorate rapidly without feminine
hands to darn them, but the serried mass
of cradles should surely dispose of the
idea that Germans are deficient in humor
—or even gentle irony. When our own
Edward VIII. keeps his 42nd birthday
in June I wonder if any such hints as
to parental responsibilities will come his
way.
* * *
“Junius”: Most of these newspaper
oracles whose identity is veiled by catchy
pen-names flicker out after a few years ;
it seems to be realised that readers tire
of them and some new stunt is wanted.
Sydney “Sun’s” “Dorothy Dix”—the
U.S.A. had a predecessor of the same
name—is an exception. For ten years,
and probably more, she has been giving
crisp advice to applicants (genuine or
bogus) on affairs of the heart domestic
“How about knocking off for a bit, darling, and getting your luvums some afternoon tea ?”
entanglements and pretty nearly every
subject that concerns the relations of man
and woman. One would have thought the
material, not to mention the inquiries,
would have run out long ago, but ap-
parently it isn’t so. When the feature
was new I heard two ladies in a lift dis-
cussing the sex of “D.D.” One insisted
that the questions and answers were
written in the office by any pressman who
had a few moments to spare, but the
other wouldn’t have it. “No,” she said
earnestly ; “nobody but a woman could
see into another woman’s heart as she
does! ”
❖ ❖ ❖ A'
“Adel”: Re Adelaide Museum:
“North Terrace” seems to be misled (B.
15/4/’36) by a misprint in the dailies
which (to anyone of his address) should
be obvious. The present Museum is, of
course, “Natural History”; the one in
demand is to be “National History.” The
location may be in one of our oldest
buildings, either the former barracks, just
behind the existing Museum, or the
former Asylum, adjoining the Botanic
Gardens.
❖ * A' *
“P.M.”: The “Yarra Borderers” (B.
15/4/’36) was the name of the 56th Bat-
talion of the pre-war Citizen Forces,
stationed in South Yarra. The connec-
tion between it and the 56th Battalion,
A.1.F., was purely sentimental. C.F.
regimental badges were not worn abroad.
“Zabut”: Who were the “Yarra Bor-
derers”? A C.M.F. regiment whose drill
hall was in Richmond. Most of the
officers enlisted and were posted to the
22nd Battalion, A.1.F., whose first C. 0.,
A. R. Crouch, M.H.R. for Corio (1901-
10), had commanded the “Borderers.”
Hence the adoption of the name. A say-
ing of the “Borderers” was put into a
regimental marching song, the tune of
which was popular. The last two lines
still cling:
Remember the Colonel’s motto, boys,
W.0.T.8.G.
Crouch won Corangamite from Gibson
as a follower of Labor in the boil-over
caused by Marks and co. 1 have often
wondered whether “the Colonel’s motto”
ever reproached him when he was mak-
ing a pacifist outburst.
* * * *
“Bo”: A juror in a Melbourne
Criminal Court, on being asked to take
the oath of service by saying “I swear
by Almighty God so to do,” grew hot and
bothered. His first interpretation of the
final words was “How do you do?” and
his second “The same to you.” He
hit the mark at the third shot.
He was more successful than an-
other juryman I recall. Administering
the oath, the Judge’s associate, who was
suffering from a husky voice, commenced
with “1 swear by Almighty God”
The juror put his hand to his ear and
said in a stage whisper “Eh?” The dis-
tressed associate came closer and rattled
off the traditional phrase. The juror,
under the impression that a hushed voice
was part of the ritual, began repeating
it in a loud whisper. He had got as
far as “God” when the associate croaked
out “Let’s hear it,” which the juror duly
repeated to a grinning Court. He got no
further; it transpired that he was hard
of hearing, and he was promptly—and
thankfully—relieved of duty.
* * * #
“Burwash”: In all the comments on
the extraordinary accident to the Nairana
in Victoria’s Rip (B. 22/4/’36), I find
no allusion to two lines in Kipling’s
“Song of the Cities,” written over 40
years ago;
the wild tide race
That whips our harbor’s mouth.
Surely a bit of description apt and rele-
vant enough to merit a reference.
“Mako”: Luck was certainly with the
ship Nairana in that the engulfing wave
struck her in the daylight. Some years
ago a small sailer, four days out from
The Bluff (M.L.), was confronted by an
enormous wave, risen apparently from
nowhere, in a calm sea. The small ship
was hurriedly put to starboard, taking
the wave nose-on, but the odds against
her looked staggering. Yet, when the
mountain of water reached her she
climbed the green slope, tottered dizzily
on the crest and rocked down the trough,
leaving the menace majestically rolling
on in the direction of the Antarctic. The
captain wiped his brow and muttered,
“It was our luck it came in the daylight.
By night we would have been swamped
before we knew it was near.” No other
ship—there are never many round the
south of M.L.—reported the tidal wave,
which probably broke on some of the
deserted islands far south.
“S.G.” makes a discovery:
“The almost nude body of Jean Hall,
aged 18 years, was found at noon on
Friday, April 17, floating face downward
in the Albert Park lake. She was last
seen alive by her mother at midnight on
the previous Saturday. Next morning her
mother discovered that her daughter had
left the house and had not slept in her
bed. Mrs. Hall did not notify the police,
as she thought her daughter may have gone
on a holiday she had been speaking of.
In the early hours of that Sunday morn-
ing a woman’s piercing scream was heard.
Scouts discovered that one of their
dinghies had been stolen during the night.
They found it partly submerged; in it
were a woman’s red beret and undercloth-
ing and a wooden tailboard from another
boat which had been used as a paddle.”
It is all from the “Argus,” but it seemed
strangely familiar. Where had I read
something like that before? Of course ;
in Poe’s “Mystery of Marie Roget” —
who was Mary Rogers, of New York:
“Marie Roget was the only daughter of
a widow. She left her mother’s house on
Sunday morning. From that hour nobody
is proved to have seen her, but we are
told that upon that very evening Madame
Deluc, who keeps a roadside inn not far
from the lake, heard the screams of a
female in the vicinity of the inn. On
Wednesday at noon the corpse of Marie
Roget was found floating in the Seine
[Hudson].
“Marie Roget was precipitated from a
boat. If thrown from the shore a weight
would have been attached. A boat was
picked up without the rudder... .Having
rid himself of his ghastly charge, the
murderer would have hastened to the city.
He would not have permitted the boat
to remain; assuredly he would have cast
it adrift.”
“The mystery,” says the “Argus,” “re-
mains unsolved.” Could Poe be brought
back from the shades he would solve it.
“Anchor”: “Kellick’s” matelot (B.
15/4/’36) who, with three good-conduct
stripes to his credit, could not “stock”
hay reminds me of an old seadog who
was putting, in his last few months at
Flinders Depot. He was made a “mes-
senger” and told off to operate the depot
pushbike. An attempt to mount the
mangle sent him sprawling in the dust.
“Can’t you ride?” queried the 0.1. C.
“No,” flung back Jack. “And what’s
more, I’ve been a leadin’ seaman gunner
for 16 years, and I’m blowed if I’m goin’
to break me neck now!”
Jfc * ❖ *
“Jobber”: Long-range visibility (B.
15/4 /’36)? From the lookout at Gordon
Falls, Leura (N.S.W.), on a clear day,
The Gib at Bowral and Mt. Jeloar at
Mittagong may be plainly seen. As Kelly
would fly, the distance is well over 80
miles. From the Anzac Memorial Hos-
pital at Katoomba the Harbor Bridge
stands out against the skyline.
* * * #
“Kali”: Marathon poker games (B.
15/4/’36)? I recall one at the cablemen's
mess in Darwin which went on for
eighteen days and nights. The school
was composed of cablemen, civil servants
and a few from the Northern Patrol, the
quarters of all being handy. Men came
off duty at midnight and took the places
of those on the dog-watch. At times the
school had eight players, with plenty of
others waiting ; at others, four only kept
“the tambourine a-rowlin’.” The stakes
were not big. We decided to cut out the
long sittings and to play a really decent
game one night weekly.
A THOUSAND A YEAR.
(Modelled on an old English song.)
“Several Federal members have decided to move
for the full restoration of their Parliamentary
salaries from £B5O to £lOOO a year.”
Oh, when they’ve a thousand per annum once
more
(And they’ll wangle it somehow, no fear!)
There’ll be less in their arduous lot to deplore
When they’re drawing a thousand a year.
Like giants refreshed, at the hour they appoint,
They’ll amble up Parliament’s steps,
And the Senate will seem a more jovial joint,
And so will the Chamber of Reps.
There’ll be fewer repinings at Canberra’s clime.
And though it’s so frequently stressed
That mellowing autumn was ever the time
When the burg’s at its brightest and best,
Still, the poplars and birches, the pines and
the oaks,
And. the tulips so soon to appear
Will carry an added attraction for blokes
Whose screw is a thousand a year.
Eight-fifty is surely a niggard return
For the work they’re expected to do;
With a surplus in sight and with money to
burn
They claim their legitimate due.
They cut to the knuckle the needs of the flesh
In days that were dismal and drear,
And now that they’ve lifted us out of Depresh
Shall we grudge them their thousand a year?
Would you have sturdy tribunes change color
and blench
At the rates in a Canberra pub
For a bed and a meal? Or for ever retrench
On their clobber, their grog and their .grub?
Day in and night out for our welfare they toil
’Neath a strain that’s intense and severe.
And, to buy them their corn and their wine
and their oil,
Should we jib at a thousand a year?
Oh, if they had a thousand per annum, as once.
There’s never a one of the mob
Would be stuck for his modern requirements
in bunce
Or need to look hard at a bob.
They could sleep where they dined, the whole
fly-by-night clan,
And tackle their beef and their beer
In lordlier taverns than old Queanbeyan
Provides for a weary and indigent man
If they had a thousand a year!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”; No wonder
Melbourne is a depressing place to visit
nowadays—only 300 barmaids left (B.
22/4/’36), and the eldest 71. In those
dear, dead days of long ago, when, after
a few at Mrs. Lane’s, we used to drift
down to the Royal Oak, and from there
to Poverty Point for a final before dinner
at Fasoli’s, a barmaid of 71 would have
been an impossible animile. Whence will
Victorian youth of to-day acquire that
rich and varied knowledge of feminine
character which its fathers and grand-
fathers gained so pleasantly from across
the bar? Barmen we knew and liked,
serving pints in their native pewter to
stalwart oarsmen at Young and Jackson’s
or Champion’s, but barmen lack those
educational abilities with which their
feminine colleagues of the Golden Age
were so eminently dowered and of which
they gave generously—though not at 71.
$ $ $ $
“Harborer”: According to a cable
wild deer are becoming such a pest eat-
ing farm crops in Herefordshire that the
Air Ministry has been asked to send along
a ’plane with machine-gunners to extir-
pate the invaders. Wild deer in Here-
fordshire are something new. Apart
from a small herd which used to abide
in the north-west of England, the only
real wild deer are found in Exmoor, in
Somerset, where the Devon and Somer-
set staghounds have their headquarters,
and one can hardly imagine these invad-
ing the apple country. It may be that
the ruined landlords of whom we hear
so much to-day have turned their flocks
of park deer loose in despair to fend for
themselves and let their former grazing
as agistment country.
* * * *
“Timeandahalf”: The members of
“Bo’s” office (B. 15/4/’36) who work
back “two or three nights each week” for
only two shillings “tea-money” have a
good hold on their jobs. N.S.W. law states
that employees may be worked back for
only 13 nights in each year for tea-
money. After that, time and a half must
be paid. It has been awarded many times
“Here's a present for you.
If you MUST reek of
scent, better reek of the
scent the wife uses.”
to workers who were sacked and took
their grievance to court. A chap from
our office got his D.C.M. and told the
boss that he intended to claim for all
overtime due. A special job on the
ledgers was created for him.
“W.J.8.”: “Jobber” (B. 8/4/’36) strays
a little from the facts regarding King’s
Regs, and gambling. The rules in ques-
tion have always prohibited gambling in
any form. The game of “housie” came
into being before the Boer War; till then
the authorities closed their eyes to what
was considered a mild game of chance,
but presently its noisy nature prompted
them to frown on it. “Housie” is still
played in the Imperial Army, but not
with the concurrence of those responsible
for the strict observance of King’s Regs.
« « « «
“A.U.C.”; The Italians have been
celebrating the 2689th birthday of Rome.
The figure seems to rest upon the
dictum of the historian Varro, who
flourished just before the Christian era,
and who records that
Romulus set up his
modest castle on the top
of Mount Palatine on
April 20, 753 B.c.
Romulus and his
achievements, of course,
belong to mythology
rather than history, but
nobody will quarrel
with patriotic Italians
for regarding him as
their national founder.
I don’t think many of
the older nations keep
their birthdays, partly,
perhaps, because of the
extreme difficulty of
fixing, even approxi-
mately, when they were
born. If England, for instance, wanted
to have an annual birthday cele-
bration, could anyone decide in what
year, let alone what month, it came into
existence?
* # *
“General Backskite”: In all the recent
news from Abyssinia I can find no men-
tion of the Holy Book that Haile
Silassie was to carry with him in his
pack—to the front. This is the Kebra
Negast (Abyssinian Bible), which Men-
elik 11. had with him at Adowa. But
the sacred volume doesn’t always work
benevolently ; it brought no luck to Theo-
dore when the British were hammering
against the walls of Magdala. The Negus
of those days sat within, perusing the
K.N., and when all was over some Eng-
lish soldiers found the book on the floor
of the chamber in which Theodore’s
brains were scattered. Incidentally, it
was the father of Haile Silassie, Ras
Makonnen, who led the Imperial troops
at Adowa in 1896 —while Menelik was
reading the K.N. in his tent.
* * * ♦
“Sr”: The picture of a keenly-attentive
Court inquiring the address of a lady
witness (B. 22/4/’36) reminds me of a
story told of one of Victoria’s eminent
barristers of the past. Defending a woman
on the charge of running a disorderly
bungalow, he invited his client to face the
Judge and speak up. “What’s your
name?” he asked. He was told. “And
where do you live?” “You know well
where I live,” returned his client. Costs
was only momentarily embarrassed.
Rustling his brief, he continued: “Yes, I
know, but I have to ask you the question,
as the Judge and the jury want the in-
formation.”
“Nantucket”: The whalers and sealers
of the early days operated much further
east than Kangaroo Island (B. 22/4/’36).
The pioneer sealing by a Sydney brig was
done in Bass Strait in 1798, and no doubt
there were American boats upon the
scene before that. But the sealing
industry lasted a comparatively short
time ; the reckless way in which the seals
were killed soon drove the survivors south-
ward to M.L. waters. Those sealers, what-
ever their nationality, were a hard lot;
besides seizing native women, they fought
“ You'll excuse my saying it, Mrs. Higgins, hut your garden seems rather
neglected.”
“Yes, that old man of mine never seems to have time to do anything.”
among themselves as desperately as the
skippers who were to be immortalised by
Kipling nearly a century later. The
Americans are said to have been the
most capable, and possibly the most law-
less as well, if one may judge from the
fact that Governor King reported in 1804
that some American shipmasters had
forcibly expelled local men from fishing-
grounds off the islands near Tasmania.
Major Lockyer, the first commandant at
Albany (W.A.), described the sealers who
came within his ken as “mostly runaway
convicts and seamen deserters —no better
than pirates.” And Lockyer probably
had a closer look at them than any other
official chronicler of the period.
* * * *
“Wunpip”: The reason why milk and
fruit are not available for troops at Aus-
tralian military camps is simple enough
—they cannot be supplied at a price to
fit with Parkhill’s meagre allowance,
unless the troops should be willing to sub-
sist on fruit and milk alone. I have just
returned from a camp, during which I
spent the best part of a day touring the
countryside in search of milk, fruit and
eggs. All I brought back with me was
half a dozen tin-openers.
“Lloyd”: The salesman
had been demonstrating the
merits of the vacuum-cleaner,
and was beginning to feel cer-
tain of a sale. The prospect,
however, with a hurried
excuse, left him and returned
with the year-book of a
chemical manufacturing com-
pany. After consulting the
astrological section, she said
she was sorry, but the day
was unpropitious for business
transactions. He offered to
return another day, but was
informed that any sale com-
menced on that day would
have unhappy results for the
buyer. All argument was
vain; he went on his way
cursing astrology.
“A.R.”: The tossing of a coin millions
of times in studying the theory of prob-
ability (Question 1102, B. 15/4/’36) is
referred to in J. M. Keynes’s work A
Treatise on Probability. Keynes gives
particulars of the experiments of the
Swiss astronomer Wolf, who in the course
of his life recorded 280,000 results of
tossing individual dice. The late Karl
Pearson investigated the results of 33,000
roulette coups at Monte Carlo recorded
in the course of eight weeks. He found
that the proportions of red and black
were not unexpected, but alternations and
long runs were so much in excess that,
assuming exact accuracy of the tables,
the a priori odds were at least a thou-
sand millions to one against some of the
recorded deviations. Dr. Karl Marbe
examined 80,000 coups from Monte Carlo
and elsewhere, and arrived at opposite
conclusions ; he claimed to have proved
that long runs, so far from being in
excess, were greatly in defect. Keynes
declares the scientific value of these ex-
periments is verv small, and records them
because “they satisfy a certain idle curi-
osity from which few students of proba-
bility are altogether free.”
* * *i* *
“Failed M.D.”: A Sydney hospital
shelters a baby with scurvy and rickets,
a rare combination here. In N. Europe
such cases are not uncommon ; but not
until late in the last century could doctors
draw a clear line between the infantile
forms of the two diseases ; babies were
said to suffer from “scurvy-rickets,” not
from scurvy and rickets. All this had an
important bearing on treatment, since
scurvy yields to oranges, meat-juice and
milk, while rickets knuckles under to
various foods containing a substance
called ergosterol, upon which the ultra-
violet rays of the solar spectrum have
been at work. If the skeletons of mum-
mies are any guide, the ancient Egyptians
seem never to have had rickets,
the immunity being probably due to the
brilliant sunshine. In countries where
purdah is practised the women frequently
suffer from osteomalacia, the adult equi-
valent of rickets, while the children, who
get their proper issue of sunlight, are
never affected. The Eskimos, who spend
half their lives inside dark huts, dodge
rickets by eating blubber and fish-liver
oils. In Australia the hideous deformi-
ties of the fully-developed disease are an
infrequent sight; but I know one family
of children which will carry the marks
of it to the grave.
* * * *
“Caballer”: Military regulations about
whiskers (B. 8/4/’36) recall to my mem-
ory a reinforcement lieutenant who ap-
peared on a battalion parade garnished
with miniature mutton-chop sideboards.
The C.O. descended on him and ordered
him to shave them off. He demurred,
contending that he was breaking no rule,
and King’s Regs, were consulted. Now
if any rule in these is not contradicted
by a later one, the omission, as far as
Aussies were concerned, was rectified
in another tome called “A.I.F. Orders.”
The only reference to whiskers in these
two volumes is “Whiskers, if worn, must
be of moderate length.” The culprit
pleaded that his were of moderate length,
and a deadlock might have threatened
on the precise meaning of the adjective
had not a subalterns’ court-martial taken
a hand the same evening. It con-
victed the accused on the old count “con-
duct to the prejudice of good order and
military discipline, in that he, while on
active service, wore whiskers of a kind
calculated to bring neutral nations into
the war against us.” He was sentenced
to have them removed without soap —
and they were.
* ;|; $
“Garrick, 8.A.”: The bearded Japan-
ese whom “Garrick, A. 8.,” encountered
on a tramp steamer (B. 22/4/’36) was
probably an Ainu, from one of the north-
ern islands of the Japanese group. These
pride themselves on their hairiness, in
contrast with the smooth-skinned brown
conquering race.
SUSPICIOUS.
“U the S.P. Betting Commission, Sydney, a
witness deposed that an alarm was always given
when a tall, well-built man was seen near a
hotel where betting was going on.”
Are you proud of your stature, old Digger?
Do you contemplate ever with zest
The muscular cut of your figure,
The inches you tape round the chest?
Then, if you’d steer clear of mischances,
Be sure not to loiter or stop
Near joints where they’re backing their fancies,
Or you’re booked for inimical glances —
You might be a cop!
Are you proud of your biceps, old cobber?
Of your shoulders so sturdy and trim
That do such a credit to clobber?
Of your soundness in wind and in limb?
These are things their possessors to flatter
And for girls to admiringly con,
But they’re bound to occasion a scatter
Wherever there’s starting-price patter—
You might be a john!
Have you hoofs —as is likely—to match your
Proportions aloft and alow.
To click with your breadth and vour stature?
Be guided by me if it’s so.
Be wary, old man, of intrusion
Within hail of a wagering shop,
Or they’ll leap to the instant conclusion
(Although it’s a patent delusion)
You must be a cop!
N.S.W.
I FORD.


C^A\r
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality .
20/„rtf6
10 for 9*^
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
PPED
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
Anthony Adverse Eden is an Old
Etonian. “The battle of Waterloo was
won on the playing fields of Eton.” Pos-
sibly the battle of Geneva was lost there.
Contemplating the last stage of his
League’s lost war, Lord Lytton, “presi-
dent of the League of Nations Union,”
demands that it should be converted into
a British Empire war by a blockade of the
Suez Canal. His lordship is 60 ; so he's
safe.
Says Minister Pearce:
The abandonment of sanctions against
Italy at this stage would strike a fatal
blow at the whole principle of collective
action.
Presumably this fustian means that the
“Yes, Mr. Eden” policy is to go on.
Pearce’s Government wouldn’t dare to
put it to the vote.
Forgan Smith, one of the six State
Premiers, has assured Britain on behalf of
Australia (that’s nice of him) that there
is no opposition to immigration, He re-
gards boy immigrants as the best of all,
and points out that in Queensland and
Westralia many boy migrants have be-
come successful farmers and stock-
breeders. But Mr. Smith refrains care-
fully from any suggestion that boy
migration should bo resumed.
There is a substantial Nationalist vote
in Rodney (Vic.). Though the late John
Allan held it for 19 years, and Bill Hill
held the corresponding Federal electorate
for 16 years, it was largely with Nat. sup-
port. Rodney Nats, have been waiting
for a chance to express their feelings
about the Cocky group’s alliance with
Labor, touching which they were not con-
sulted, and which Allan strove to pre-
vent ; and with five Cockies standing a
Nat. in good local standing would, at the
least, have had a substantial lead at the
end of the first count. But the Nat. orga-
nisation left it to the live Cockies. This
is no way to gain or regain power.
Vic. Labor had no chance in Rodney
and gave the by-election a miss; but,
true to the “App’int Maloney” tradition,
it advised local Laborites to vote Sulli-
van (1), Roddis (2), Mitchell (3), Dun-
stone (4) and Davis (5). Dunstone won.
Mitchell was a good second, Sullivan
an indifferent third, and Roddis a more
indifferent fourth. Davis saved bis
deposit.
Premier Ogilvie has had a great deal
to say about the iniquities of the
banks and the poisonous nature of “the
monetary system” and the genius of
Douglas and the need for “community
control of credit,” but when he learned
that the Banking Commission was on its
way to Hobart to hear witnesses he al-
most fell over himself in his hurry to
announce that he wouldn’t be among
them. Mr. Ogilvie, it seems, “disagrees
with the personnel of the commission.”
So, no doubt, did bankers like Healy of
the ’Asia and Davidson, of the ’Wales, but
that didn’t prevent them from going along
and standing up for days to be shot at —
chiefly by a former Labor Minister and a
professor. In plain Australian, Ogilvie
squibbed it.
Ogilvie is a lawyer. The chairman of
the Banking Commission is a Judge. An
assertion by the lawyer that the com-
mission “would not even force some
bank managers to give evidence on some
aspects of the inquiry” moved the Judge
to retort dryly that “no manager of any
bank has refused to supply the com-
mission with any information for which
it has asked.” Mark how a plain tale
can put a political nark down!
A report from Canberra had it that,
“despite deputations and Taxpayers’ As-
sociation appeals, there is no likelihood
of any substantial reduction of taxes, even
if there is any reduction at all.” A few
days later came the news that “restora-
tion of salaries of Ministers, members and
public servants to pre-depression levels
is to be considered.” They, of course,
come first.
Weekly payment of income tax is in
vogue in Victoria, and extension to
N.S.W. has been suggested. It would be
a convenience to a Government which
is always scratching for money as well
as to the taxpayer; but, according to
Spooner, there are valid reasons why the
system should not be adopted here.” The
“valid reasons” are that the taxgatherers
don’t like it and won’t have it.
Sixpence a week has been added to
the N.S.W. basic wage for men, making
it £3 95., and Is. 6d. taken from the
basic wage for women, making it
£1 15s. 6d. The State Industrial Com-
“In the declaration of the N.S.W. basic wage for women, the amount allowed for
board and lodging is £1 Is. a week.”
“I offer you ninepence a meal and ninepence a bed, and you won’t take
it! Why, it’s contempt of Court! ”
mission, composed of three able law-
yers, is convinced that for £1 15s. 6d.
a week “an adult female employee” can
get “adequate board and lodging at a
boarding-house” (or “batch” if she pre-
fers “batching”) and obtain the other
“minimum requirements of an unskilled
female worker.” Public opinion will be
sceptical until one of the able lawyers
disguises himself as “an adult female
employee” and proves it.
If there is one field in which there
should be one controlling authority, and
one alone, it is aviation. Yet the N.S.W.
Government has intervened in a case
wherein a Sydney flying man was fined
for a breach of the Commonwealth Air
Navigation Act, the ground of interven-
tion being that it was an intra-State
matter. In other words, the dignity of
N. S. Wales politicians and bureaucrats
demands that aviation should have two
controlling authorities. Provincialism has
scored heavily over Union these last few
years ; but it may beat itself in the end
if it goes on outraging commonsense.
Curtin came to Sydney last week and
said he had “nothing but the warmest
feelings and admiration for those in
N.S.W. who have fought so consistently
for the particular conception of Labor
tactics they believed to be right.” He
suggested that “the warmest feelings and
admiration” were general in “the move-
ment.” Strange that Westralian Labor
concealed . them so long. At all the
“unity” conferences its voice and vote
were consistently against the Langsters.
And scarcely anyone on the other side
said harsher things about Lang and his
“particular conception of Labor tactics”
than Collier, Curtin’s leader in State
politics for twenty years.
Pressure from country towns has
forced the Sydney Government to
promise a sort-of-a-kind of chain-store
inquiry. Dunningham made the an-
nouncement ; £1 shares in the leading
chain-store concern rose Is. 9d. next day
. Oc tbp Hqv following That’s
and 2s. on the day following. \ nai
what the market thinks of Government
“investigations” at second hand.
Every four years there is a childish
wrangle over the selection of a team for
the Olympic Games. It always starts in
Sydney because some damsel boomed
by some flapper-paper has been omitted,
and the chorus is taken up by “Terewth”
because other young women have been
dropped. In the past politicians kept
out of these infantile hullabaloos, but
this year silly little Ward, M.H.R.,
charged in, yelling at one time that he
would arrange to have the Federal grant
increased so that more Sydney flappeis
might be sent to Berlin (“£2OOO, the
gentleman said, “is only a drop in the
bucket”), and at another that the treat-
ment of a rejected miss “would be brought
up when the House of Reps, resumes.
Ward, of course, says Federal taxes—
particularly the Bs. 6d. in the £ on pro-
perty income in excess of £3700 must
be kept up.
“ ‘Sanctions,’ ” Pearce asserts, “have had
a serious effect on the economic and
financial situation of Italy.” So serious
an effect that the Italians are just finish-
ing a war which, in the League version,
was to have lasted five years, and have
completed arrangements for massive
loans to Albania. As for League mem-
bers in general:
All are loyally co-operating in the en-
forcement of the “sanctions” which have
been imposed.
The truth is that Ecuador, for one, has
formally abandoned “sanctions,” and
Argentina is believed to be about to fol-
low suit. In South America, as well as in
parts of Europe, “sanctions” have been a
sham from the beginning. How easy it
is for the Pearces of politics to believe
what they want to believe!
Deputy-Premier Bruxner warmly de-
nies that his anti-socialist Government
“set out with a prejudice against private
bus-owners.” He declares that some still
exist and “have a kind of limited good-
will”;
A provisional license for six months
which does not carry compensation for
disturbance.
At the end of the six months the Trans-
port Commission can chase them away,
commandeering their buses at “ascer-
tained value, plus 25 p.c.” It has done
this considerably.
Departmental services employ 680
persons. With few exceptions these men
were employed in private services before
1932.
A notable achievement for an anti-
socialist Government.
Queensland’s remarkable Transport
Strangulation Board is now pointing out
to shire councils that if motor-trucks
plying in their districts are not registered
as heavy vehicles they can be taxed for
license fees by the councils. Seemingly,
this is the board’s reply to the revelation
of an unpublished executive minute
exempting vehicles which operated over
distances of less than 15 miles from heavy-
vehicle fees. The board seems to have
overlooked the High Court decision that,
where ordinary motor-vehicle registra-
tion fees are paid, “like fees may not
be imposed by shire councils” in Queens-
land,
Queensland’s Transport Strangulation
Board’s good deed for the week has been
to seize another motor-truck and dump
the goods beside the public highway.
The owners explain that they had put
in 18 applications in as many months for
truck licenses, and were prepared to pay
the board’s “fees.” All had been refused
without explanation.
Sir Arnold Wilson, M.P., to his con-
stituents, who are mostly farmers:
Sanctions have estranged Italy, split
France from top to bottom, given Japan
a free hand in the Far East, caused diffi-
culties in Egypt and cost us 10 millions in
hard cash. Our export trade with Italy
has been pretty well ruined.
In Australia the loss of export trade to
Italy is reckoned at £355,000 for four
months to the end of March, but there
would be indirect losses as well. British
tariff concessions to “sanctionist” coun-
tries pleading poverty as a result of de-
votion to principle have resulted in
produce markets being glutted, with eggs
in particular. And presumably Australia
is footing the bill for foreign-service
costs of the two R.A.N. cruisers.


DAVE’S GOING TO BE IN ZANE GREY’S NEW NOVEL.
“Zane Grey is writing a novel with an Australian setting. The heroine will be an English girl and the hero ‘a reckless Australian cowboy ."


THE NEW
SHELL
MOTOR
SHELL "DRAG-FREE" MOTOR OIL
gives you Added Power
plus Easier Starting and
Lower Petrol Consumption
PERSONAL ITEMS
J. W. Davidson is retiring in October
from the Commissionership of the
Queensland railways. A Glaswegian, he
became a junior clerk in the service in
1890, and passed through every grade on
the financial and traffic side. Always
courteous and tactful, he knew no
politics. He became Commissioner in
1918, and now old age has got him —he
goes out at 64—though it has not been
allowed to claw Stanley Baldwin (69) in
its clutch, or Neville Chamberlain, Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer at 67.
Arthur Pickels has been one of the
best-known figures for 25 years in show-
rings devoted to Australian-Illawarra-
Shorthorn cattle. Hailing from the N. S.
Wales South Coast, he began his breed-
“ARTHUR of Blacklands.”
ing career hard-up, ill, but indomitable.
It was a common, sad show-ring remark
in his early days that “poor Arthur won’t
be here next year.” But Arthur always
was, and dach year with a bigger team
of more stylish red and roan females
with a bigger and bigger test. At
a time when he looked most des-
tined for the early possession of a
harp, his stout heart suggested to him
that he would make a pioneer. So he
betook himself to the Mundubbera scrub
country in mid-Queensland. Now he is
restored in health, and Blacklands —the
name of his stud —is better known among
southern cattlemen than that of the dis-
trict in which he lives. He has reared
a fine family.
George Downs, dead in Adelaide at
just on 80, captained the first S.A.
football team that ever played in Vic-
toria, and was a cricket umpire when
W. G. Grace was here in 1890-91. He
was an undertaker.
F. G. MacArthur, of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” dead at 45, was a Scotsman who
served in France, and (as captain) in
India ; then took to journalism in India
and in Westralia, moved over to
Adelaide “News” and was on the
“Register” when the “ ’Tiser” absorbed it.
Some May birthdays:
Vic. Crown Prosecutor Book, 41, on Ist :
N. Senator Charles Cox, 73, and Prot.
J. R. Wilton (Adel.), 52, on 2nd; Gerald
Lightfoot (sec., C.5.1.R.), 59, Justice Rich
(High Court), 73, Prof. T. H. Laby (Melb.),
56, knight Colin Stephen (Syd.), 64, ex-Lord
Mayor Chas. Glover (Adel.), 66, on 3rd; Chas.
Earle (“Dominion,” M.L.), 65, C. L. A.
Abbott, M.H.R. (Gwydir), 50, David Gordon,
M.L.C. (Adel.), 71, and Prof. McKellar
Stewart (Adel.), 58, on 4th; Justice Bavin
(N.S.W.), 62, and Douglas Mawson, 54, on
sth; former Vic. Premier Prendergast, 82, and
Bishop Fox (Wilcannia-Forbes), 43, on 6th;
J. T. Heathershaw (Commonwealth Pensions
Department), 65, and Harold Clapp (Vic. Rail-
ways Commissioner), 61, on 7th; S.A. Gov.
Maj.-Gen. Sir Winston Dugan, 59, J. C. V.
Behan, M.A. (Trinity Coll., Melb.), 55, Col.
Lord (Tas. police chief), 66, and James Ashton
(Syd.), 72, on Bth; Dr. George Mackaness, 54,
T. H. Scholfield, M.H.R. (Wannon), 42, Bishop
Burgmann (Goulburn), 51, and S.A. Senator
O. Uppill, 60, on 9th; knight Claude H.
Reading, 62, and N. F. Spielvogel (Vic.), 62,
on 10th; marine-painter Charles Bryant, 53,
S.A. Director of Agric. A. J. Perkins, 65, and
Q'land Senator Ceilings, 71, on 11th; Dean
Johnson (Newcastle), 47, Canon Hughes
(Melb.), 76, and Prof. R. W. Hawken (Q.),
58, on 12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 59,
on 13th; former S.A. Premier Lionel Hill, 55,
ex-N.S.W. Senator P. P. Abbott, 67, and Prof.
J. J. Stable (Q.), 53, on 14th; W.A. Minister
for Employment Kenneally, 57, on 15th;
Q. Chief Justice Blair, 65, and C. A. S.
Hawker, M.H.R. (Wakefield), 42, on 16th;
Newton Moore (sometime Premier, W.A.), 66,
poet Leon Gellert, 44, and Q. Min. for Works
H. A. Bruce, 51, on 17th; Major-General
Harold Grimwade (Vic.), 67, Dr. P. R. Cole
(Syd. Teachers’ Coll.), 57, artist W. B. Mc-
Innes, 47, J. A. Perkins, M.H.R. (Eden-
Monaro), 58, and authoress Zora Cross, on
18th; A. H. Stuart (gen. manager “S. M.
Herald”), 43, on 19th; Vic. Senator Gibson,
67, F. J. Rae (Director Melb. Botanical
Gardens), 53, and H. E. Boote (editor “Aust.
Worker”), 68, on 20th; Q. Railways Commis-
sioner Davidson, 64, on 21st; knight Alexander
Gordon (Syd.), 78, on 22nd; Justice Parsons
(S.A.), 64, Judge Bceby, 67, N.S.W. Min. for
Lands Buttenshaw, 60, on 23rd; Q. ex-Gov.
Goodwin, 65, and knight William Vicars (Syd.),
77, on 24th; Justice Pike (N.S.W.), 70, on
25th; Senate President Lynch, 69, on 26th;
knight Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 74, Brig.-Gen.
McNicholl (Administrator of New Guinea), 59,
S.A. Director of Educ. W. J. Adey, 62, and
Prof. A. L. Campbell (Adel.), 47, on 27th; ex-
Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 85, and Prof. M. S.
Fletcher (Q.), 68, on 28th; Prof. R. J. A.
Berry (Melb.), 69, and W.A. Min. for Agric.
F. J. S. Wise, 39, on 30th; Q. Senator Foil,
46, on 31st.
Albert Cherbury David Rivett is one of
Australia’s supremely able scientists.
Son of a Nonconformist minister, he was
bom in Tasmania and educated at Wesley
College (Melb.), Melbourne and Oxford
universities and the Nobel Institute, Stock-
holm. He was one
of the first Aus-
tralian Rhodes
scholars —Victoria,
1907 —to take a
science course
abroad, and he re-
turned to become a
lecturer in chemis-
try at Melbourne
University in 1911,
rising to be pro-
fessor in 1924.
He has refused a
higher university-
post since becom-
ing chief execu-
tive officer of the
C.S.I.R. Rivett was
general secretary of
the committee
which managed the
meeting in Aus-
tralia of the Brit-
ish Association for
the Advancement
of Science in 1914, and served in scien-
tific capacities during the war in Aus-
tralia and with the British Munitions
Department. A K.C.M.G. came his way
in 1935.
RIVETT, of the C.S.I.R.
W. J. Clemens, head of the Common-
wealth Public Service Board, is to retire
next year, and H. J. Sheehan, head of the
Federal Treasury, is a likely successor.
The job is worth £2500 a year, less the
cut; and it is expected that the last will
be seen of cuts by the middle of next
year. Sheehan is one of the brilliant men
of the Commonwealth service. He
proved a tower of strength to the Labor
and non-Labor Governments during the
depression, and was one of the authors
of the Premiers’ Plan,
A Red Page writer included E. J.
Brady in a list of 16 Bulletin veterans.
Meeting him you gain the impres-
sion that, although he may be a
veteran in years —he was editing the
“Australian Workman” 44 years ago
and the “Australian Worker” two years
later—he is in spirit as youthful as
when his Ways of Many Waters set the
critics buzzing in the late ’eighties.
Brady is on a short visit to Sydney,
gathering material for an entirely new
edition of his Australia Unlimited, which
first appeared in 1918, From Sydney he
will do a rapid tour of the Common-
wealth to freshen his memory of the
ground he covered on scores of journeys
in past years.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide “Advertiser’s” cen-
tennial novel competition has been judged
by Lloyd Dumas, the editor, Prof.
Stewart and Grenfell Price. The £lOO
award, to Mrs. A. G. Somerville, is
for a story of the Cornish miners at
Moonta, (It obviously ought to be illus-
trated by Oswald Pryor.) Elizabeth
Skottowe (second, £3O) is a descendant
of one of the earliest settlers, J. B.
Hack, and has used family material
on progressive or “Cavalcade” lines.
Herbert Guthrie (third, £2O), a Port
Adelaide councillor, deals with Kangaroo
Island and the Port in earliest days. All
three are first novels ; but the women
have produced, respectively, some one-
acters played by the Repertory Theatre
and an illustrated book of children’s
verse.
L. E. Beavis, who is to head the staff
which will prepare plans for essential-
product supply for defence purposes, was
only 22 when the war ended, but he had
seen three years’ service, had the D.S.O.
and had been twice mentioned in dis-
patches. He is now a lieut.-col. who for
some years has been liaison officer be-
tween Australia House and the War
Office in Britain, where he passed the
Staff College.
“O. Kay”: England’s latest screen
comedian, Arthur Riscoe, is a York-
shireman who ran away from home at
16 and worked his
passage to Aus-
tralia, his luggage
consisting only of
his father’s gun.
Riscoe got a job as
a rouseabout on a
sheep station, but
later joined the
chorus of a touring
company. He
served with the
A.I.F. from 1914
to the Armistice.
Awaiting demobil-
isation, he received
an offer to appear
in a West End
musical comedy.
Arthur immediately
telegraphed to Gen-
eral Birdwood ask-
ing for instant re-
lease, and got it.
He soon established
himself in London,
and has since ap-
peared in popular shows —“Nippy,”
“Out of the Bottle,” “For the Love
of Mike” and “The One Girl.” He
is now under a long-term contract to
Windsor Films, Ltd.
Geoffrey Whiskard, Britain’s first High
Commissioner to Australia, is one of a
capable team of specially-trained men
who have handled Dominion affairs in
Whitehall since the war. At Oxford he
took a brilliant degree, and several years
as principal private secretary to the
Home Secretary taught him administra-
Britain’s High Commissioner.
tion and a knowledge of men —he served
as the right-hand man of Reginald Mc-
Kenna, John Simon and Joynson-Hicks.
He transferred to the Colonial Office in
1922 and the Dominions Office in 1925,
and was the executive officer of L. S.
Amery’s Ministerial tour of the
Dominions in 1927-28. For six years
before his appointment to Australia he
was vice-chairman of the overseas settle-
ment committee.
The Wentworth family ran into the
sixth Australian generation with the birth
of a daughter to Mr. and Mrs. W. C.
Wentworth, jun.. In Sydney the the other
day. The original William Charles —the
Christian name has been preserved in each
generation—who figured so .largely in
early Australian affairs, was born at Nor-
folk Island in 1790 ; when he was 23 he
was with Lawson and Blaxland in the
first crossing of the Blue Mountains. The
fifth William Charles is at the Bar, an
earnest young man with economic lean-
ings and a striking facial resemblance to
the original of his name.
“El V.”: Lord Lytton, who suggests
the closing of the Suez Canal against the
Italians, was once described by Lord
Birkenhead as “looking a bit like Henry
Irving’s ghost with its hair cut.” Only
Lord Cecil of Chelwood vies with him
in the House of Lords in his love of the
League. He is a lank, cadaverous per-
son who, as befits a grandson of the
author of The Last Days of Pompeii,
exudes an air of romanticism through the
natural armor of a grandee. He has been
Governor of Bengal and acting-Viceroy,
twice leader of an Indian League delega-
tion, a British League delegate and chair-
man of the League Commission to Man-
chukuo ; he has held a number of Minis-
terial offices and is one of the high
priests of the drama and movements for
the improvement of English speech. What
spare time he has he devotes to the writ-
ing of books and to a variety of sports
which range from golf to ski-ing. His
sister matried Edwin Landseer and, after
his death, Edward Lutyens, the archi-
tect of the Cenotaph and New Delhi.


m
i
With Barnet Glass
efficiency is high and
running COStS at bedrock
There are thousands more miles of wear in the massive, deep-cut
Caterpillar Traction Tread that grips and holds under all
conditions. The Barnet Glass formula of rubber impregnating
the long staple cotton cords gives a perfectly balanced casing,
minimising generation of heat.
Sturdy buttressed walls protect both tread and casing. Double
breaker strips absorb road shocks and double bead wires ensure
rim stability.
These are the elements of a real Truck Tyre . . . Barnet Glass
Truck and Bus Balloons give greater mileage, longer trouble-free
service and enable Truck and Bus owners to reduce overheads
and run to schedule.
Fit a full set for all-round economy and service
in the long run .
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
MT.7I-FP-35.
HEAT RESISTING ARMOURED WALLS CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS
f
TUBES


muff m
H
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1920. . 1,383,575 789,726 131,280 10,245 452,318
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1929.. 1,997,015 1,279,446 159,340 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; ] 498,229
t» Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO j
1930.. 2,109.372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870]
Transferred to General Reserve, £200,000; f 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931.. 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488 131,981 \ 177 74n
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 ] ’
1932.. 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976 321,594
To Staff Fund, £14,023 ~ .. 1 009 7n9
1933. . 2,071,868 1,486,785 188,306 52 ] OB
To Staff Fund, £7189 . . . . 98 o
19.34.. 2,202,168 1,456,873 192,823 ] ’
To Staff Fund, £10,882 . . . . 1 ( . 9 „ 4 r, 8
1935. . 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 ]
♦lncludes dividends to shareholders.
fAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.] Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1019 89,925
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1929.. 786,542 324,782 290,392 4438 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000 ; 1115,930
to Income Tax Reserve, £lOOO J
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 1
Transferred to Income-Tax Reserve, £16,000 ] 1 ■ BJ "
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,009 267 ) 17 ,- 87 ,
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO ] 0)
1932.. 757,097 307,014 268,310 4062 177,711
To Staff Fund, £6293.. .. .. lom 949
1933.. 784,788 297,798 274,704 4750 ] 0
To Staff Fund, £6312.. .. .. t 9qf; irr
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834 ) <2yO)iDU
To Staff Fund, £5063.. .. .. ) ~, c . n
1935.. 920,562 291,691 288,557 1301 ] 000)900
fAfter deducting taxes.
Income in the two departments last
year was a record. New business put on
the books aggregated £8,103,606 (up
£860,261), making the total in force at
Dec. 31 £63,172,554 (a net £3,126,583
higher).
Net premium income (£2,253,543) in-
creased £137,095, and interest, etc.
(£1,037,333), rose £43,224. Taxes
(£56,246) took £4683 more; therefore,
including a capital profit of £10,176 in
the previous year’s figures, total income
as shown in the introductory tables
(£3,234,631) was £163,014 better.
Claims, with surrenders (which were
lighter), rose by only £11,793 (to
£1,749,908). Exes, were kept well in
hand, and, after handing £145,000 (up
£10,000) to shareholders • and setting
aside £15,945 on account of the staff,
Assurance funds benefited by £963,408,
making them £21,391,170. In addition,
there were other reserves totalling
£723,000 and share capital of £200,000.
Big figures as regards new business,
etc., alone mean nothing. The test of
a life office is its bonus-paying capacity.
Last term the M.L.C.’s surpluses avail-
able for distribution in both departments
sprang £61,839;
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Ordinary .. £692,946 £552,326 £623,363 £671,296
Industrial .. 76,730 70,580 82,297 96,203
Total .. £769,676 £622,856 £705,660 £767,499
The already handsome bonuses were
again increased on most Ordinary depart-
ment policies.
The office assumes that its Ordinary
funds will earn 3 p.c. and its Industrial
funds 2i p.c.—the latter the lowest basis
of valuation yet reached in Australia.
Last term £4 14s. p.c. was netted in the
O.D. (up 5d.) and £4 13s. p.c. in the I.D.
(down 7d.).
The low basis on which the co. values
was made possible by improvement
in the mortality experience over the last
30 years and by the economical way in
which the business is handled. Thus
policy-holders’ prospects ha,ve been
strengthened, especially as interest rates
now show a tendency to increase.
Exes, were a shade heavier in the Ordi-
nary branch at 13.7 p.c. of the net pre-
mium and 9.2 p.c. of the total income.
In the Industrial department the figures
were 33.8 p.c. and 24.9 p.c. respectively,
as against 32.9 p.c. and 25.4 p.c. for 1934.
Policy-holders can see 82.8 p.c. of their
funds in public securities. When the
high rate of interest earned is considered,
these and other assets appear to be worth
considerably more than their book
value:
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Public securities. £19,104,727 83.2 £19,929,882 82.8
Mortgages .. 890,450 3.9 1,189,369 4.9
Loans on policies 1,911,402 8.3 1,857,846 7.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 470,400 2.0 492,659 2.0
Property.. .. 133,362 .6 133,611 .6
Other assets .. 463,919 2.0 473,660 2.0
£22,974,200 £24,077,027
Liabilities* .. 1,307,134 1,624,153
Net assets .. £21,607,126 £22,452,874
* Other than under policies.
Liabilities include £1,276,287 of deposits,
which the office has been able to re-lend
at a profit, thus assisting bonuses.
In the Widows’ Fund section policy-
holders received a compound reversion-
ary bonus of £2 ss, p.c. (up Is. p.c. on
last year). On the sum assured only it
was equal to £4 os. sd. p.c. The cash
surplus divided was actually equal to
£120.5 p.c. of the year’s premium income
—an experience unparalleled in Austra-
lian life assurance history. But the
Widows’ Fund is a closed circuit.
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1926 . . 104,733 10 p.c. = 87,500 17,233 824,974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,974
1927 .. 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
Premiums on new shares, £lOO,OOO 989,827
1928 .. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929 .. 145,410 10 ~,, 125,000 20.410 1.023,874
1930.. 138,108 9 „ „ 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931.. 91,813 7 „„ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932 .. 66,776 4 „ „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933.. 53,727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934 . . 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935.. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 . . 57,973 4 „ „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
Australia’s smallest trading bank was
linked in name with the largest a few
weeks ago ; the ’Wales and the Adelaide
were the first to lift deposit rates by an
all-round 10s. p.c. The general increase
since has already had some effect <n
attracting fixed deposits to banks. In
cases it has been a transfer from current
accounts; but, though that means a
smaller margin of profit on advances, it
means also that banks can rely to a
greater extent on public money in their
possession for lending purposes. Float-
ing deposits are sometimes of a flighty
nature.
The Adelaide is principally a South
Aus. bank, where it is loyally supported.
It was a 10-percenter from 1919 to
1929 ; the central State, in addition to
being hit by the slump as badly as other
parts of the Commonwealth, had a run
of bad seasons for some years, and its
wheatgrowing industry suffered particu-
larly. The Adelaide’s div. rate dropped
to 4 p.c. in 1932 —a point below the aver-
age maintained by most other trading
banks, excepting the Q.N. —and has not
showed an upward movement yet, though
the Commercial of Australia, Commer-
cial of Sydney and National have lifted
their distributions slightly.
Much depends on when relief will
arrive from the bad debts problem. In
1935 £25,000 was whisked off to inner re-
serves, and £30,000 in 1933. Last term
net profit was written at £57,973, an im-
provement of £2772, and equal to 4.6 p.c.
on the £1,250,000 of capital, as against
4.4, 4.3, 4.2, 5.3, 7.3 and 11 p.c. back to
1930. After shareholders had been at-
tended to, £7973 was carried to visible re-
serves (£1,036,969).
Interest rates are moving up, and small
benefits should accrue to banks this year.
Also, wheat lands that are normally eco-
nomic should be paying satisfactorily at
present prices, which (around 3s. lOd. at
ports last week), on the average, are the
best for several years. The outlook for
woolgrowers is also encouraging.
The Adelaide’s operations expanded
again last year:
1929. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Notes.. £6,713 £6,603 £6,592 £6,576
Bills, etc. 633,075 514,913 242,734 156,084
Deposits 6,177,592 6,031,331 6,372,594 6,713,968
Liquid
assets. . 2,857,214 3,417,291 3,320,280 3,175,087
Advances 5,949,107 5,108,010 5,252,802 5,660,001
Premises,
etc. .. 347,434 343,117 352,837 353,511
The banking position is strong, the ratio
of advances to deposits being 84 p.c., as
against an average of 88 p.c. for all trad-
ing banks for the March quarter. Also,
the co. has a strong liquid position. These
factors, combined with a large amount of
the bank’s own money at work in relation
to deposits, all indicate strength; but
they also lean towards low earning
power.
Last term deposits moved up £341,374
and other liabilities dropped £86,650.
The net increase here, £145,193 of liquids
and a bit more from somewhere were put
out in advances (up £407,199 after pro-
viding for contingencies). All movements
suggest increased earnings, subject to sea-
sons, prices, etc., during the current term.
There has been a good deal of interest
in the scrip of recent months. The mar-
ket prices the £5-paids (there is a contin-
gent liability of £5 callable in the event
of liquidation) at £7, as against £6
twelve months ago.
The present yield is a shade over 2.8
p.c., which would rise to 3.5 p.c. if a 5
p.c. div. were paid.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ-To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. ten Oft’, serves, serves.
£* £■£*£/£,
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. = 41,974 I 7 rg ?
Staff provident fund, £5OOO ] /,9oU li>9) ' U2
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 ...
Staff provident fund, £lOOO ] ' )BdD 10/ ’ od/
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 ( . ... ... ...
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ] 1)004 168)541
1929.. 72.810 10 p.c. = 52,974 —\ 10 336 3 84.877
Staff provident fund, £3500 > ’
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 68,295 —I, n ll s U 1 noo
Staff provident fund, £3500 )’ ‘ ’
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 1 1 , fiQ
Staff provident fund, £BOOO ] ’ ’
1932.. 49,052 7i p.c. =43,725 | 2 827 346,288
Staff provident fund, £2500 ]
1933.. 47,125 7J p.c. =43,725 —1 ..-.on
Staff provident fund, £2500 ] 9UU 1 *' )iBB
1934.. 48,788 7* p.c. =43,725 \ „ 563 149 751
Staff provident fund, £2500 ] ’ ’
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000.. 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. 46,640 1 k or. inline
Staff provident fund, £2500 J 0)354 181)10 °
!936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 —1 5 314 i 8
Staff provident fund, £2500 ] .
It’s a snug business. Profits during the
darkest days of the last half-dozen years
covered the p.c. distributed, and the
div. rate for the past two terms has been
a comfortable 8 p.c. That isn’t the whole
story. Finances suggest that ample pro-
vision has been made for depreciation,
taxation and all likely contingencies. The
consistent earning power of the business
probably isn’t entirely due to the co.’s
extensive goodwill, but partly to a moder-
ate valuation placed on the earning assets.
Visibly, reserves are equal to no more
than 6s. 4d. per £1 of paid capital. They
are worth every penny of it.
Dunedin-controlled, the co. owns four
fertiliser works, four warehouses and a
pharmaceutical factory. The book value
of fixed assets was up to £466,943 in
1930. In the six years since factories
have been kept efficient, and construction
of a new sulphuric-acid plant on the most
up-to-date lines was commenced during
last term at the Westfield (Auckland)
works. Yet fixed assets, after deducting
£30,000 (up £5000) depreciation visibly
allowed during the year, stood in the
books at £372,791 last balance day a
drop of £94,152 since 1930.
Gross profit is written after deducting
manufacturing costs and depreciation :
Gross Profit. Expenses.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.c.
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1930 .. 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1932 . . 145,388 96,336 66.2 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
1934 . . 127,761 78,973 61.8 „
1935 . . 137,226 82,732 60.2 „
1936 . . 149,551 95,097 63.5 „
Last term the figure improved £12,325.
Overhead exes., including taxes, bad debts
and “all other charges,” ran off with all
the improvement and £4O besides. The
net result was 9.3 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 9.3, 8.3, 8, 8.4 and 10.4 p.c.
back to 1931. The div. rate was main-
tained, and, after setting aside £2500 for
the staff fund, £5314 was carried to re-
serves.
Finances are extremely comfortable:
1920. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Capital . . £867,140 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities . . 76,650 252,463 84,438 137,520
Factories etc. 140,114 466,943 366,221 372,791
Stock.. .. 188,874 373,891 274,477 301,247
Book debts . . 105,283 172,094 133,802 133,700
Cash, etc. . . 133,976 105,002 130,166
Liabilities (£137,526) moved up £53,088,
mainly because of stock additions ; the
figure comprises “a grouping up of
accounts, and includes full provision for
income tax.” From it £26,000 of inner
reserves was dragged in 1935.
Stocks (£301,247) were £26,770 higher ;
additional raw materials are held, as well
as greater supplies in warehouses. Valu-
ation is sound, the chairman says. Book
debts are practically unchanged, while
cash, etc., is up £25,164. Net addition to
fixed assets was £6570. The more or less
liquid surplus (£427,587) was £1255
lighter.
Last season wasn’t a good one in the
Dominion from a land man’s viewpoint.
During the current term prices promise
to be better. With a concern whose prin-
cipal business is the manufacture and sale
of fertilisers the agricultural and pastoral
position is particularly important. .
Last term’s div. is equal to 8.8 p.c. on
the holdings of those who bought prior
to the one-for-ten bonus issue of 1929.
At 765. the yield to present buyers on the
£2 shares is 4.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing is £2 12s. 9d.
on book values.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
275 415
1926.. 33,904 20 p.c. = 24,000 9,904 285’,319
1927.. 34,965 20 ~ „ 24,000 10,965 296,284
1928.. 28,570 20 „ „ 24,000 4,570 300,854
1929.. 32,158 25 ~ „ 30,000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,053 25 „ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,159 304,224
1932.. 38,364 25 „ „ 30,000 8,364 312,588
1933.. 31,737 25 „ „ 30,000 1,737 314,325
1934.. 36,069 25 „ „ 30,000 6,069 320,394
Freehold sold; added reserves, £41,873.. 362,267
1935.. 40,034 27.1 p.c. = 32,500 7,534 369,801
During the term the co. sold its free-
hold at the corner of Pitt and King
streets, Sydney, to Saunders, the jewel-
lers. The £lBO,OOO or thereabouts pay-
able for the site is now mainly repre-
sented by mortgages and other invest-
ments. They give a lower return, though
the sale yielded a good capital profit
(£41,873 was added to reserves without
comment last term). Income from inter-
est and rents (£18,980) dropped £3BlB,
but land and income taxes (£3000) fell
£1897. The gross return was equal to
15.8 p.c. on capital; it is from invest-
ment income that the co. has mainly
paid the handsome divs. shown in the
table.
Owing to a favorable claims experi-
ence, underwriting last year was much
more profitable than usual. This section
turned in £21,054 (up £7783), an excel-
lent figure, equal in itself (after paying
all taxes and other exes.) to 17.5 p.c.
on capital. Earnings from all sources
were thus £3965 higher, totalling 33.3
p.c. on capital, as against 30, 26.4, 32,
27.2 and 27.1 p.c. back to 1930. The
div. was kept at 25 p.c., and seems even
safer than hitherto.
The loss rate was the lowest for many
years:—
Loss. Expense.
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.c. 40.7 p.c.
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8 „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 ~ 45.9 „
1927.. 114,440 46,007 56,288 40.2 „ 49.2 „
1928.. 116,020 53,367 57,540 48.0 ~ 49.6 „
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 51.1 „
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 37.8 „ 63.9 „
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 „ 64.3 „
1932.. 95,965 29,441 49,941 30.7 „ 52.0 „
1933.. 94,292 32,835 52,255 34.8 „ 55.4 „
1934. . 99,759 32,149 64,339 32.2 „ 54.4 „
1935.. 100,140 26,316 52,770 26.2 ~ 52.6 „
Such a* favorable claims experience re-
flects the careful policy of the manage-
ment in selecting and retaining its risks.
Net premium income was £3Bl higher,
but losses were down £5833. Despite the
Goldsbrough-Mort conflagration, this
co.’s fire department was one of the
principal contributors to the better
underwriting result; losses in the marine
{“Wild Cat’’ continued on page 18.)


Now, see you here, my
YOUNG WOMAN!”
4 KTOW, see you here, young woman!”
1 her father said. “ Jim’s first duty to
you as his wife is to become a member
of the A.M.P. I know what he’ll say.
He’ll say that it takes every penny of
his earnings to keep the pair of you and
pay the rent. I said that, too, when I
was first married, but I was quite
wrong. I afforded, and you can afford,
a £5OO policy in the A.M.P. It would
not call for the investment of more than
a few shillings a week, and it would
give the both of you a sense of security
that nothing else could. It’s not my
business to persuade him; it’s yours. If
you are wise you will ask the A.M.P.
to send along a man to talk it over with
him. If that doesn’t do the trick, keep
on reminding him, in your own sweet
way, until he does his duty.”
Every A.MP. policy is backed by
£100,000,000 of assets, practically all
of them in Australia and New Zealand.
The Society is as strong as the nation
itself. Be a member of it. Write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. A. W. SNEDDON, FT. A., General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.


R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales,. Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84366.
branch were also light. Exes., too, were
down ; the co. has shifted its head office
from Pitt-sfreet to Martin-place (Sydney),
with possibly a saving in rent.
The exceptionally solid protection for
policy-holders increased last term:
1926. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 15,089 12,999 21,305 16,432
Freeholds .. 142,771 142,771 142,771 6,771
Mortgages . . 45,990 31,510 32,148 173,746
Investments .. 157,545 189,501 169,487 242,881
Cash .. . . 82,663 88,665 137,985 100,723
Debtors . . 15,440 12,278 9,308 8,613
Following the sale, freeholds dropped
£136,000, while mortgages increased
£141,598, and investments (£242,881,
of which all but £19,210 is i.n‘ Govern-
ment securities) moved up £73,394.
Cash, etc., was £31,262 lighter.
At balance day policy-holders could
see net tangibles of high quality equal
to 489 p.c. of the year’s net premiums.
Usually 150 p.c. is considered adequate.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 20,835 124 p.c. = 18,750 2085 34.730
1927.. 24,658 124 ~ „ 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. .. 47,989
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930.. 13,198 10 ~ „ 15,000 48,172
Loss.
1931. . 1,858 24 „ „ 3,750 42,584
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 la p.c. a 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7,500 1346 42,001
1935.. 14,398 8j „ „ 13,125 1273 43,334
1936.. 9,375 6) „ „ 9,375 43,334
Melbourne was a hive of industrial activ-
ity last year. The value of buildings
erected in Greater Melbourne was £6}
millions, or £l£ millions more than for
the previous year, and only half a mil-
lion short of the peak figure for 1929.
Though concrete constructions in the
city accounted for most of the increase,
home-building in Suburbia, upon which
Northcote principally depends, recorded
expansion, too. There had been price-
parings early in the piece, but the de-
mand for bricks proved insufficient to
warrant the reductions made, the chair-
man says. Consequently, gross earnings
(£12,642) shrank £4922 ; exes, advanced
£4l. Since reserves were tapped for £59
during the term, the net result was £5023
lighter at £9375, or 6 \ p.c. on the
£150,000 of capital.
The market, which, anticipating an-
other 8f p.c. disbursement, had bid 30s.
for the £1 scrip earlier in the year,
sagged to 245. on publication of
accounts. The return at the lower figure
is 5.1 p.c. on a6| p.c. div. basis. Tan-
gible backing for the shares amounts to
£1 ss. 7d.
Shareholders fared best during the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930,
when the free scattering of overseas bor-
rowings enabled an average 10.9 p.c. to
be distributed ; this was enhanced by a
small capitalisation of 2s. 6d. per share
in 1924. During this period also,
£30,576 of bonus scrip was received
from holdings in kindred organisations.
Still, the co. had always traded well
within its resources, and when slump
shattered earnings the small outside debt,
substantial cash reserves and a light
debtors’ balance enabled immediate ad-
vantage to be taken of the revival in
trade activities.
Finances are cosy:
1923. 1927. 1935. J 936.
Paid capital.. £131,250 £150,000 £150,000' £150,000
Liabilities .. 2,949 4,823 1,975 2,205
Freeholds .. 101,981 88,230 90,021 90,021
Plant, etc. .. 31,122 34,725 35,918 36,951
Stocks .. 4,047 2,447 1,450 1,888
Book debts .. 3,884 11,861 4,777 4,055
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 41,821 41,821
Cash, etc. .. 15,196 33,060 28,821 24,552
Major movement during the year was a
reduction of £4269 in cash, etc., probably
occasioned by plant expenditure, though
the latter item moved up only £1033
(to £36,951). It is reported in good trim ;
much depends on this. Excluding hold-
ings in other cos., more or less liquids
were £28,290 in excess of liabilities, the
slip over the twelvemonth being £4783.
As for the current term, there has been
a lift in the price of bricks. Earnings,
however, will depend mainly upon build-
ing activity and delivery costs.
The Kraft-paper and cardboard con-
cern, Australian Paper Manufacturers
Pty. (controlled by Australasian Paper
and Pulp and the Cumberland Paper
Mills), will have no interest in Associated
Paper and Pulp Mills (Burnie, Tas.) other
than a small holding of deferred shares —
these through its interest in Tasmanian
Paper Pty. This latter co. is to receive
100,000 deferreds from the new float (B.
22/4/’36); Amalgamated Zinc will ap-
parently be entitled to about half of
them, and Broken Hill cos. and Aus.
Paper Manufacturers to the rest. Aus-
tralian Paper is conducting its own paper-
making investigations in conjunction with
Australian Newsprint Holdings, in which
the leading Australian newspapers are
interested.
* * * *
Reporting on the oil-prospecting
operations of Oil Search, Ltd., at Hutton
Creek and Arcadia Domes, respectively
65 and 85 miles north of Roma (Q.),
Dr, Woolnough, geological adviser to the
Commonwealth Government, says that
at no time in the history of the search
for oil in Australia have so many com-
pletely favorable factors been presented
simultaneously by any project. He adds
that deep drilling and other work at
Roma show that the oil and gas en-
countered there were satellitic, and that
theoretical considerations suggest that
the Kamilaroi (permo-carboniferous)
marine formations are source rocks of
011 and gas. These formations outcrop
about 100 miles north of Roma, and are
believed to exist underground at points
much nearer.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) netted £24,694 for the
year to Dec. 31 last as against £155,054
in 1934. Owing to an industrial dispute
and water shortage, the mine was closed
from April, 1935, to February, 1936. The
last div. (Is. per share, equal to £30,000)
was paid in March, 1935. The 18,327
tons of ore and slump sands treated
yielded 76000 z. fine gold and 24610 z. fine
silver, an average recovery of 88 p.c. The
8743 tons ore put through the mill
yielded 14160 z. fine gold, and another
2320 z. was recovered from a clean-up of
the precipitation plant. Mining costs were
24.25. per ton, and operating costs, includ-
ing battery sands, 34.35. per ton. There
is about 37,000 tons of average grade
ore, mostly broken, in the slopes, this
is equivalent to six months’full work for
the mill. Diamond-drilling and explora-
tion from an old prospecting shaft sug-
gest the existence of more pay-ore to the
nor’-west of the main workings, and the
300 ft. level is being extended to
explore the shoot. The co. holds 50,000
f.ps, in Morning Star, Wood’s Point
(Vic.), which paid its first div. (6d. a
share) on March 15.
* * * *
Mount Morgan Development has
taken a six months’ option, with right
of extension for a similar period, over
Mt. Cassidy Syndicate’s leases, near
Rockhampton (Q.), Senior Government
Geologist J. H. Reid says there are “large
prospective reserves of low-grade ore”
(2dwt. to 6dwt.) in sight, but ore going
lOdwt. or more is limited. Still, in his
opinion, further search for higher-grade
stuff below 30ft, is justified,
* * * *
B. H. Prop, has exercised its option
over alluvials on the Macquarie River,
near Wellington (N.S.W.). Details con-
cerning the nature, volume and value of
the deposit have not yet been announced,
but the co. has been systematically testing
the ground for the last three years, which
suggests that the element of speculation
in the venture has been reduced to a
minimum. A new co., Wellington Allu-
vials, Ltd., has been formed with a nomi-
nal capital of £250,000 in 2s. shares to
take over and work the property. The
dredge, which will cost over £lOO,OOO,
will be the largest and most modern of
its kind in Australia, and will take about
12 months to construct. The parent’s
shareholders will have participating rights
in the new float, on a basis yet to be
announced. The parent is now testing an-
other property at Cowra Creek (N.S.W.J.
* * * *
Cullengoral, Gundagai (N.S.W.), has
ordered a bucket dredge (capacity 80,000
c.y. monthly) to handle the 8,400,000 c.y.
of lOd. dirt (gold at £8 an ounce Aus-
tralian) in its middle area. On the upper
area, another 5,400,000 c.y. of 11.7 d.
wash has been proved over an area of
170 acres; an adjoining 100 acres re-
mains to be tested.
* * * *
For the six months to December 31,
Curnow’s Tin, Torington (N.S.W.),
treated 1240 tons for 44\ tons tin con-
centrates, valued at £7353, of which
£3310 was profit. Three sixpenny divs.
absorbed £2561. Prospects have been
enhanced by a new reef formation going
north from the main shaft; driving for
50ft. has disclosed payable ore,
* * * *
A div. is coming from Central Nell
Gwynne (B. 22/4/’36); but Herbert
Gepp, a director, was against it. A
shilling a share is payable on May 7, call-
ing for £2350, and leaving a credit of
£1430. Gepp considers that opening-up
of the mine should be pushed ahead, and
that sinking of the shaft further and the
organisation of surface equipment should
have had first call on the profits. Ben-
digo, in his opinion, is a low-grade field
with rich patches ?■ the Central N.G. has
large reserves of 3dwt. to 4dwt. ore. The
two latest crushings have been 100 tons
for 90oz. and 195 tons for 1290 z. If the
co. is merely working a rich patch at pre-
sent the point of Gepp’s remarks is plain.
There are 7000 10s. shares fully paid, and
40.000 paid to 9s. 9d.
* * * *
Wattle Gully G.M., N.L. (Chewton,
Vic.), is buying a 20-head battery ; also
a rock-breaker, Wilfley tables and cor-
duroy strakes. The plant is expected
to be operating by August, with an out-
put of between 1000 and 1200 tons a
month. At present ore is being treated
at the State battery —last big crushing
was 210 tons for an average of 9.7dwt. ;
smaller parcels since have averaged about
lOdwt. Now down to 575 ft., the shaft
is to be sunk a further 100 ft. If the
lode met with in the shaft continues down
for the whole of this distance, the shaft
material will be milled in hopes of off-
setting some of the cost. Returns so far
have been mainly from shaft and drive
material.
Jjc * * *
Australian Mines Management and
Secretariate, the managerial driving force
behind the De Bernales group in West-
ralia, is pushing things along. Continuous
crushing is proceeding at Sand Queen,
and production will soon begin at Yellow-
dine, both on Commonwealth Mining
and Finance’s list of properties. Milling
is also about to commence at King of
Creation, Anglo-Austral fan’s recent
acquisition. At Paddington Consols and
Augusta (both owned by Boulder Mining
and Finance), Wooronga (owned by
Murchison Gold Development) and
Bayley’s (owned by Commonwealth
Mining and Finance and North Kalgurli
United), developments are pleasing.
♦ * *
From a man on the spot: North Kal-
gurli’s latest estimate of ore reserves is
nearly 600,000 tons, inclusive of 110,000
tons of broken ore. Average grade is
between 7dwt, and Bdwt. per ton. Ore
in sight in the Boulder Perseverance is
computed at 250,000 tons of present
milling grade. Perseverance profits are
unlikely to decrease, so, after the notes
are paid off in, September, dividends
should double. The North Kalgurli-Perse-
verance enlarged joint-treatment plant is
working at only three-fourths capacity,
because the Kalgoorlie Electric Corp. is
unable to supply sufficient power; full
capacity (20,000 tons a month) may not
be reached for months. The layout of
the remodelled Boulder milling plant is
not impressive, but it is doing its job
fairly well. Extraction is now about 89
p.c., and an early improvement is anti-
cipated.
* * * * (
After a visit to Westralia, Walter
Broadbridge, chairman of Siamese and
Malayan tinmining cos., and a director
of several other concerns, including
Minerals Separation, Boulder Persever-
ance, Tindals and Edjudina, thinks
Boulder Perseverance, which has already
produced £9,000,000 sterling and paid
£4,000,000 in divs., has an assured life
of at least ten years. As regards Tindals
and Edjudina, capital for which was
found in London last year, he considers
that the former gives every indication of
becoming a medium-grade producer and
that the latter shows promise. Values
have been proved at depth by drilling,
and mineralisation can be traced for miles
within Edjudina’s holding.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department esti-
mates that the Big Bell mine,- recently
taken over by American interests, con-
tains 3,000,000 tons of ore, averaging
3dwt., down to 650 ft. On an output of
25.000 tons (the minimum proposed), the
month’s yield would be worth £32,875,
with gold at £8 10s. an ounce Australian.
Costs are not expected to exceed 14s. a
ton, leaving a mine profit of 11s. 6d.
Extension of the railway from Cue,
approximately 22 miles away, will cost
£60,000.
* * * t
Lady Shenton is unlucky. Two con-
secutive returns from the new plant
have fallen short of prospectus anticipa-
tions, an expert engaged to report on the
mine has asked that the job be given to
someone else, and the manager has be-
come ill. However, the capacity and
efficiency of the plant are to be increased,
and all sections of the property check-
sampled as soon as possible.
* * * *
Leonora Corp., interested in gold-
mining in Kenya and the Transvaal,
netted £16,182 last year, as against £3321
in 1934. Book value of investments is
£72,761. Co., a subsidiary of the Sons
of Gwalia, is now about to float pups in
conjunction with another concern. The
first will be put on the market shortly.
Paringa Mining and Exploration has
acquired an option (to Jan., ’37) over
North Kalgurli Central’s property, Kal-
goorlie (W.A.). If it is exercised, the
consideration will be 165,684 Paringa
shares. Paringa will take over next
month.
* * * *
The list of Westralian gold-ore treat-
ment mills is steadily being added to.
Western Mining Corp. has just installed
one on Central Norseman’s Phoenix
mine, at Norseman, and is erecting an-
other at Cox’s Find, north of Laverton.
Good and regular returns are expected
from both shows.
* * * *
H. A. Ellis, of the Westralian Geologi-
cal Survey Department, has left Perth for
the supposed scene of Lasseter’s “lost
reef,” just inside the Westralian border
and roughly 600 miles from Alice Springs.
G. R. Hummerston became interested in
the locality a couple of years ago, and
some capital was raised in Sydney.
* * * *
New Venture Co. (W.A.), which has
spent most of its cash in an unsuccessful
search for gold, is endeavoring to interest
a financial group in some options on the
Coolgardie field. The directors say it is
beyond the co.’s means to test these
options without assistance.
*** ■ *
On the strength of early gold produc-
tion and a good strike in the southern
section of its Westralian property You-
anmi’s shares have strengthened on the
London market. Early divs. are talked
of.
* * * *
Kunanalling Gold, north of Cool-
gardie, has installed a crude-oil engine
and a five-drill compressor. Operations
are confined to Blackett’s lease, and it
is proposed to open the mine to the
200 ft. level. Sydney interests, having paid
a deposit on the Premier mine, in the same
district, are negotiating for London capi-
tal to reopen this property.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas, starting afresh
on the Golden Queen, at Coolgardie,
reports that compressor and drills trans-
ported from Palmer’s Find are in excel-
lent condition. A contract has been
let for drilling, and driving is proceeding
at north and south ends of the 142 ft.
level.
* * * *
First Hit has increased its holding to
34 acres by the acquisition of two addi-
tional leases at MenzieS (W.A.). Last
monthly output was 475 tons for 3170 z.
bullion over the plates, with 6dwt. values
in the sands. There is approx. 10 p.c.
silver in the bullion, and monthly yield
averages 18dwt. fine gold.
*'* * *
Associated Northern Ora Banda
(W.A.), working portion of the old
Associated Northern, cleaned up 3902
tons of tailings in March for 2170 z. gold.
Cost was 6s. a short ton; net profit,
approx. £673. .
♦.♦ * *
Gold Mines of Kalgurli, which has the
Iron Duke lease, near the North Kal-
gurli, is producing, March throughput
at the old Associated mill was 1579 long
tons for 26330 z. of bullion; estimated
value, £19,942 (Aust.),
* * * *
Westralian mine workers’ application
for a shorter working week will prob-
ably be heard in June. Last year’s im-
provements in rates of pay and con-
ditions increased costs by 2s. a ton.
* * * *
For the year to Jan. 31 Stafford Gold,
Stafford (M.L.), dredged 466,150 c.y. for
21570 z. gold, worth £17,288 (8.9 d. per
c.y.). With working costs at 6.3 d. per
c.y., net profit was £4071. Heavy main-
tenance and plant-renewal charges stood
in the way of a div. Ground now being
worked averages 10.5 d.; an early distri-
bution is anticipated. The co. added
2,000,000 c.y., estimated to average 7.5 d.,
to its holdings during the year.
THE HOYT BOOK ON THE LINED BEARING
(sth edition) is gratis as previously. Enclose 3d.
for postage. Ask for our house magazine, “THE
NOTCHED INGOT.” HOYT’S METALS, 49
HARDWARE STREET. MELBOURNE.— Advt.
* * * *
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co, (Melb.). — Advt.
♦ * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. — Advt.
♦ * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins Home,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine—in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.


ilii
m
l *\K
m
C °*K
r tPp*
C 'GAft
<Nia
e^e s
-o v'
B.^%*
.... Fits your
pocket both
ways
size & price
Still available, of
course, is the familiar
square TIN of 14- -1/-
no
■OUNTRY LIFE
100/ PURE VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
* . " < 1 . .


ABORIGINALITIES
“Del Norte”: “That ain’t fast,”
snorted “Dorrigo Dan” as the doctor’s
car whizzed past the pub at sixty. “Not
wot /’d call fast. Jist lissen. I was
cornin’ down Dorrigo Mountain on me
old pushbike. It didn’t ’ave no brakes,
so I ties a branch off a she-oak to the
saddle and trailed it be’ind to steady ’er
like. Well, everything goes good till I’m
’alf-way down, an’ then the blasted rope
breaks. When I comes outa Bellingen
’Orspital a coupla weeks later I goes to
salvage the old bike. Where’jer think I
tracked ’er, mister? Up in a tree she
was, 50 yards off the road. I’d bin travel-
lin’ all right. The wheels was still
spinriin’.”
* % * sfc
“Hamboner”: “Lab.’s” dogs (B.
25/3/’36) certainly showed intelligence,
but compared with Mick and Ryan, a
couple of Monaro (N.S.W.) canines, they
are only Boy Scouts at the game. With
sticks as goal posts, those hounds work
the ball over the goal line in a Soccer
game with much the same skill as they
manage the sheep. And, what’s more,
they always stop when the whistle blows.
Mick, so his owner claims, once
manoeuvred two blowflies into a pickle jar.
* H* * *
“Palmdale”: Fishing off the deep-water
jetty at Albany (W.A.) I noticed two
youngsters, in a canoe manufactured from
a sheet of galvanised iron, moving across
the water with apparently no motive
power. They had hooked a shark, and
were having a ride and thrill at the
expense of the hungry monster. The
sight, my informant said, was far from
unusual. A mile from shore and in shark-
infested waters —they breed ’em tough in
the West!
* * * *
“A.N.S.”: Luke Rollans and his team,
known from Mungindi to Maitland
(N.S.W.), were the subjects of Lambert’s
picture (B. l/4/’36). Rollans is shown
taking his team across the black-soil
plains near Moree, his native town. A
few years ago I saw the same horses
(including the white leader) and wagon
sold at Curlewis. Luke was then over
80. It always amused the old chap that
the artist forgot some of the bellybands.
❖ # * #
“G.G.”: In Pilbarra (W.A.) we were
camped in a gorge which contained
three rockholes. The first two going up
the gorge were dry, No. 1 having a
gravelly bottom. No. 2 was just clean
rock, as also was No. 3, which held our
only water supply. One night a tropical
storm burst, and for a few hours that
gorge was a raging torrent. When we
went for water next morning No. 1 had
fish three inches long in it, yet there
was no sign of a fish in the other two.
We were in a range of hills, far from
any body of surface water.
He * *
“Gryllus”: The ability of our hard-
woods to survive after their heartwood
has been burnt or rotted out provides
Australian timber country with a larger
proportion of hollow trees and logs than
any other country possesses. The result
has been the development of an exten-
sive population of animals and birds,
not to speak of insects, reptiles and
arachnids, which use the hollows, wholly
or partly, as residences or breeding
places, or both. A big standing hollow
tree, with plenty of spouts in the upper
branches, is often a regular township.
Jackasses, dollar birds, owls, parrots,
possums, bats, lizards, bears, spiders,
moths and several kinds of ants may
all be found at various times in the
upper storeys. Dingoes, foxes and native
cats not infrequently use the basement,
where roots are hollow, although a
hollow log is usually preferred.
* * * 3=
“B’Kali”: Wasps are certainly fast
workers (B. 11/3/’36). My Sydney
suburban neighbor smoked his pipe and
sunbaked while lying on his lawn. When
he awoke after a half-hour doze he found
possession of his pipe disputed by a yel-
low and black wasp that was busily put-
ting the final touches to it. That bowl
contained the paralysed bodies of three
spiders, tightly packed in separate
chambers, while the top of the bowl had
been sealed except for a small hole that
was rapidly being closed when the home-
maker’s activities were so rudely dis-
turbed.
He * ❖ A'
“Bull-ant Bill”: “They didn’t get me
down to that flamin’ Sydney Show,” said
old Joe. “Jist look at that there piece in
the paper ’bout wot ’appened at the larst
one. Blokes wot ran it knoo somethin’
—they ’ad twenty nurses an’ two dozen
chaps all ready before’and with ban-
dages an’ linnerments an’ stuff t’ stop
the blood. Needed ’em, too. Eight
blokes got bit by dogs, an’ three got
near choked by fish —must’ve been in
swimmin’. No—it wus fish bones!
“What's that lump on its back, Ned?”
“Looks to me like curvature of the spine”
’Nother lot got near done in by ants,
an’ a lotta silly coots got cattle ticks
in their ’eads. Two blokes was ’ove orf
’orses an’ got concussion, an’ a lot more
sprained their ankles. They was faintin’
all over the joint, too, an’ most uv the
lot seems t’ ’ave toothache as well. I’d
’ave bin orl right fer that —ain’t got none.
But, I tell y’, a place like that ain’t safe.”
* * * ♦
“Spud”: A motorist who left an open
suitcase in a garage at Geraldton (W.A.)
returned after several weeks to find a hive
of bees in possession. Closing the case
on them he transferred the colony to his
garden. The suitcase is still their home.
“Awani”: I found a beehive in a
log on the ground ; it yielded two kero-
sene-tins of honey and 22 stings. It’s
the first time I’ve known bees to make
a home of that.
* 3= * *
“Old-timer”: The Murray steamer
Straggler was making good time down-
stream towing a barge loaded with fruit
and wool from Tapalin and Prill Park.
A day out from Euston, and with dusk
coming down, the only passenger emerged
from his cabin on the upper deck and
began to dance about the narrow gang-
way. It was clear that old Joe “had ’em
again,” as the fireman put it feelingly,
and, as he was known to get violent, they
dodged him from stokehole to deck
about the little boat. Joe killed
thousands of whatever he was seeing
with a hefty stick, and kicked thousands
more into the river ; but they must have
kept coming, for he suddenly rushed aft
and disappeared into the night with an
unearthly cry. Boat and barge were
stopped, and an hour’s search of the river
with dinghy and hurricane-lamp fol-
lowed. In the end they decided to push
on and inform the police at the next
landing. Curly, on the wheel of the
barge next morning, turned pale as Joe’s
ghost emerged from a niche in the wool-
bales. When they convinced Joe that
he must have gone hand over hand along
the taut 60ft. towline from boat to barge
in the darkness, he consigned them to
Hades as a lot of leg-pullers. Yet that
is what the old galoot had done.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Experts can’t say with
any degree of accuracy why crocs, don’t
sink while resting on mudbanks (B.
25 / 3 /’36); it is just one of those pro-
visions that Dame Nature makes. I have
seen natives wade out to a mudbank to
cut the tail off a defunct saurian ; while
they sank up to their buttocks, the croc,
remained on the surface. But, the tail
removed, the remains slowly disappeared
into the slime.
•t' J i‘ •!* '! ;
“Plankton”: Can any Abobushparite
put me wise as to what particular brand
of solitary wasp fancies fencing-post
wire-holes for nursery purposes? In this
particular instance the ends of all three
holes on the east side of the post were
loosely stopped up with bunches of the
seedheads of some grass pushed in for
half their length ; and the opposite
openings were plugged with tightly-
packed wads of grass-stems. Aided by
the careful use of a pencil I pushed out
the contents of each hole. No. 1 was a
blank ; No. 2 revealed fragments of a
beetle’s chitinous covering ; but in No.
3 I found a well-grown wasp grub about
iin. long. Removed the latter in the
hope it might complete its metamorphosis
and enlighten my curiosity, but the
blighter failed to survive.
* * * *
“Fisher”: Add to “Country Saw-
bones’s” list of bush superstitions better
dead (B. l/4/’36) these odds and ends
of campfire wisdom: —
1. Extra-uterine birth of the kangaroo.
2. The red rag that keeps off botflies.
glas ? bottle tlie soanner oil
soaKco. tnrougn.
4. The fish bones that choked the cat.
5. The cornsack that doesn’t hurt the
horse’s back.
6. The deaf-adder.
l: The locaf n scho e ol P deac e her’s colossal
salary.
All just by way of a start, of course.
* * * *
“Marker”: Notwithstanding “Tor-
quata’s” Mallee fowl (B. 11/3/’36), I
have observed one mound for 15 years,
and proved that the old incubating
material is cleaned out in the autumn,
Fresh leaves and sticks are scratched
into the nest from 50ft. around and
allowed to remain open until thoroughly
wet with winter rains. By August the
nest is completed and the eggs are de-
posited. The cone-shaped nest is 3ft.
high and about 10ft. across the base.
The chicks are the size of quail and
scratch their own way out. They are
covered with fluff, and very like the
American bronzewing chick in color.
Mallee fowl only fly in utmost urgency,
and then only for a short distance,
usually alighting in the top of a bushy
tree.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: Stranger than those
Westralian lakes (B. 11/3/’36) are the
windmill soaks on Dirk Hartog Island
sheep station (Shark Bay, W.A.). At
high tide they pump fresh water and at
low, salt, so a man is detailed to turn
them on and off each day at times corre-
sponding to the lateness of the tides. The
water, used for stock and household pur-
poses, is a trifle brackish, which isn t
surprising. Most of the mills are on the
edge of the beach.
% %
“Kelly”; Tell “Twelve-bore” (B
25/3/’36) that, though his crows may
know the range of his Holloway and
Naughton, their counting power is
limited. If “Twelve-bore” wants to get
home on them, he can do it with
three other men to help him. Let the
four men hide themselves in the killing
yard, and let three come out in full view
and walk away. Thinking the coast is
clear, those birds will then move within
range of the H. and N. which “Twelve-
bore” has planted with him. It’s no good
trying to flummox ’em with, less than
three ; they can count, add up and sub-
tract with ease up to that number. Go
over the three and Kelly is stumped.
“Caw-cuss”: Poor old Kelly the Crow
never gets credit for good intentions. The
Lithgow (N.S.W.) golf club has vowed
his destruction because flocks of crows
have been pulling up the grass on the
fairways. The wrong will right itself with
time and a shower of rain, and the crow
visitation will prove a blessing in dis-
guise. Those crows were after the wire-
worm, one of the most inveterate enemies
of grass.
......
“Corvus”: There’s no doubt about
the quality of the grey matter northwards
of a crow’s beak. I gave up using a
shotgun long ago, and now stick to a
Savage 250/3.000. But even now when
j g G out I reckon Kelly takes a look at
the stuff in my belt. If he sees lead-
pointed reloads he goes for his life, or
stays 300 yards away at any rate. But
if he sights a row of wicked little pointed
copper bullets he knows I want Toos.
Then he calls up his family, relatives and
t • . r
friends and they jeer at me from every
twig.
* * * *
“Oh Yeah”: Out riding on the Bul-
groo Plain (s.-w. Q.), which is surrounded
by boree country, Ted was caught m
heavy rain which reduced the visibility
to nil. He kept on riding for a while,
and soon found himself in what appeared
to be turkey-bush country. Greatly puz-
zled, he pulled up and decided to have
a smoke and wait for things to clear up
a bit. He kicked his feet free and vaulted
out of the saddle—to fall 27 feet to the
ground. Enlightenment came with a
rush. The mud had collected under his
horse’s hooves and the turkey-bush was,
in reality, the tops of the borees.
MEMORIES.
New England was ever for laughter
And log-fires burning bright,
When Youth was the glow on the rafter
And Age but a shade in the night.
But, spring and the sun appearing,
My brother Luke and I
Were off to the distant shearing
On the flats of Mungindi.
So, loading our mountain horses,
Grown sleek from the winter’s spell,
We followed the watercourses
And travelled through Inverell.
And, further, the way passed over
Rich valleys of virgin gold;
Ah, what a road for a rover
Ere Luke and myself grew old!
T ill summer on lowlands found us
Stooping, to reap in full
The wealth of the pastures round us,
Knee-deep in the golden wool.
Winter, a fire and your ease on
New England, of snow-caps high ;
But spring, the call of the season,
Big tallies and Mungindi!
N.S.W.
FRANK MCCALL.


“Onaway”: Old Andy was out in the
ranges with a cattle-buyer, who was just
experiencing his first morning’s turn-out.
Roused out of his blankets, some time
after midnight, by Andy’s supremely un-
truthful yell of “Daaaylight,” he was un-
happily rubbing sleep out of his eyes
while Andy made conversation: “Isn’t it*
nice and peaceful down in these gullies
in the morning, eh? Funny thing how
quiet it is, though ; can’t even hear a
bird anywhere.” Jubilee, the black-
boy, raised a bleary countenance from
the fire he was coaxing into being. “Ah
cripes, boss,” he yawned reproachfully,
“you don’t give the birds a chance.”
* H« sfc
“Costeen”: The black cockatoo, found
all over the s.-w. of Westralia, is hereby
entered for the death-grip stakes (B.
18/3/’36). One, mortally wounded in an
orchard massacre and about to be dis-
patched with the butt of a gun, managed
to get hold of the stock. Its beak went
straight through that hard walnut as
cleanly as though it were an apple,
* * * *
“Ex-S.S.”: “Packbag’s” c.t. (B.
12/2/’36) had nothing to growl about.
One good habit that seems to have died
out among bush Bungs is that of shout-
ing for a departing guest paying his
board. I had to put in two days in a
northern N.S.W. border town. When
I was settling my bill the publican was
talking to one of his pals in the bar.
He asked me what Td have, then his
mate, and he had one himself. The cost
of the three drinks was deducted from
my change. I now patronise a tavern-
keeper on the Queensland side.
* ♦ * *
“Battler”: “Murlonga” (B. 8/4/’36)
can’t have been in the back country lately
or he d know that “nap” still means
blankets to the average stockman and
“I did swerve, inspector, but he didn't give me time to get off his side of
the road."
shearer. As for stockmen “pulling suit-
cases from cars instead of swags from
packhorses”—well, they would be mugs
to ride a hundred or more miles out to a
job when there are wool-lorries and
mailmen on every road.
“Ornis”: There
has been some
dirty work in my
N.S.W. mountain
abode. The place
is surrounded by
natural forest
abounding in
koo k a burras. A
member of our
community has
made a practice of
feeding these with
meat set out for
them on the rail of
the cottage veran-
dah in which he
lives, and the daily
roll-up of kookas
is one of the sights
of the place. Re-
cently the settle-
ment acquired a
large yellow cat,
and soon after the
muster of jacks
decreased consider-
ably. The cat was
accused of murder-,
ous intent, but,
though carefully
watched, showed
no signs of inter-
fering with those
birds which still
came to perch in
the trees close to
the cottage and lift
up their voices in
song. Then the
mystery was made
clear. Every
morning when
the kookas’
breakfast was
laid along the
rail and the bene-
factor withdrew
out of sight, the
cat started at one
end and ate his
way through the
lot.
* *
“Golden Mile”;
These somnolent
blokes have nothing
on an old mate of
mine in the days of
the Ivanhoe (W.A.).
Knocking off at 8
a.m. Saturday morn-
ing, he was missing
at 3.45 p.m. the fol-
lowing Monday, this being the long shift
off. Sent by the shift-boss to see what
had happened, I found him still sleeping.
He groused at having to go to work
without a bite of tucker, his last meal
having been before turning in at 10 a.m.
on the Saturday. Oddly enough his
name was Nightingale.
* * 5= *
“Palmdale”: Thank you, “Ock Ulist”
(B. 8/4/’36)! I have often wondered
why, when the wagon is bogged to the
axles, when waterholes fail or floods pre-
vail, when the cattle break into the crop
or the favorite cattle-dog picks up a bait,
the bushman swears. Now I know ; it’s
his bad eyesight! “0.U.” also explains
that somnolence is a sign of eyestrain,
and that’s why a bushman nods over a
paper or a book at night. I used to think
it was because he had swung an axe for
10 or 12 hours, had spent 12 or 14 hours
in the saddle, or sunk post-holes for a day
in ground that would shame cast iron—
but I am at last enlightened. It’s just his
faulty lamps!
“Does it never occur to you that
fishing is cruel?"
“My oath, it does, missus! I 'aven't
'ad a bite all day."
“Mako”: How
much does a dog
know? Our tyke,
when we lived in
the country, was
always ready on
week-days to fol-
low any member of
the family who
went through the
gate; on Sundays
he lay on the porch
and would hardly
bother to lift his
head as we went
past, knowing we
were churchward-
bound and wouldn’t
take him. Long
before we could
identify the sound
he would hear the
family car ap-
proaching and go
down to greet it,
giving us warning
to open the gate.
It was his morning
duty to run half a
mile to the cross-
roads and bring
back our paper,
which the mailman
as a favor collected
and brought out
from town. One
morning we saw
the mailcar pass in
the distance, and
were much sur-
prised to note the
dog sitting unin-
terestedly at home.
No pers u a s ion
would make him
go for the paper,
and a disgusted
householder went
himself. The paper
was not there, the mailman having
for the first time forgotten to collect it.
An intensely puzzled dog-fancier returned
home ; the explanation is still in dispute.
sjc jJ: % ❖
“Groper”: So the W.A. Anglers’
Association is offering a 50-guinea trophy
for the first tunny landed with hook and
line. In 1924, fishing from a rowboat
with a strong snapper line just outside
Fremantle, a local angler, Joe Connell,
hooked a big fish which took almost the
whole length of the line. The “hit”
burned his hands badly, for it tore the
hook through the cartilage right from
near the fish’s eye to the tip of the jaw.
No one had seen such a fish before, but
an old shellback identified it as a tuna
or tunny. It turned the scales at 601 b.
* * * *
“Western”: What did “Burrum” (B.
25/3/’36) find wrong with his mate’s
proposal to use the corned-beef water for
soup-making? I’ve done it many a time
back beyond Coolgardie, where a man
took a bath out of
a pint mug. It was
considered sinful
waste to throw
such fluid away. A
few raw spuds
soon reduced the
salt content, while
a handful of bar-
ley, an onion and
some native cab-
bage made it into
excellent soup.
Further back, out
Lake Carey way,
where long stretches
between water
made salty soup
just a trifle undesir-
able, we presented
the fluid to blacks,
who lapped it up
like a movie star
hopping into cham-
pagne. Next morning those abos. were
always willing to show the way to the
next water.
“Centre”: There would be chaos in
seabirds’ hatcheries were matters con-
cerning eggs as “Macjim” (B. 4/3/’36)
contends. I’ve seen thousands of these
birds’ eggs lying on bare expanses of
rock, exposed to every gale that blew,
and yet every egg was always in its
place when Ma returned to her duties
after being absent for her daily dip and
gossip. Gulls’ eggs are streamlined, and
swing round to any violent gust till the
narrow end points dead into the wind,
and there they stay put. But it beats
me how Ma knows which is her egg,
or eggs, among the thousands lying
around, without even the faintest trace
of a nest to act as a guide.
* * * *
“Williami”: I nominate the magpie as
the bird with the longest memory. Once
gave a young one my forefinger to eat.
He got it down to the top joint and was
gooing with delight as he swallowed. It
was the best and biggest worm he’d ever
had, and, all set for the final intake, he
gave a mighty gulp, spread his wings to
make room for the meal and gurgled to
get it down. But it wouldn’t budge any
further. He tugged at the finger, dis-
gorged it and tried again and again to
swallow it. Out of patience at last, he
assaulted me, almost clipping a piece out
of my heel. Then he stood in front of
me, ruffled his feathers and nearly set the
place on fire with his language. Twelve
months later I returned for another holi-
day, and maggie spotted me at once. He
made my life a misery. If I went for a
walk along the road I’d come back with
a hole in my sock and a bleeding heel.
I’d never hear him nor see him until
after the assault, then he’d be all noise
and speed. In all his life he never bit
anyone else. And I couldn’t persuade
anyone else to feed him on fingers.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”; The marks that “Tripod”
(B. 1/4/’36) saw on the trunks of trees
in the Bunya Mountains, near Dalby
(Q.), were not toeholds cut by Binghi, but
were scars in the bark where limbs had
been broken off flush with the massive
trunk. Tomahawks were never used on
the Bunya pines, these trees being
climbed by means of the looped vine
alone. As for planting vines to be later
used as ladders at the base of the trees,
“Tripod” should know that Binghi never
cultivated anything— not even the native
yams or his beloved pituri.
* * * *
“A.M.McJL”: The chief reason why
the black is liable to pull through and
the white man to pass out in shark
attacks is the racial attitude towards
sharks. The white man is the more likely
to die from shock; the coastal native,
spending much of his life in the water,
regards sharkbite as something to be
accepted philosophically. Of all the
cases brought into the Torres Strait
Hospital in the last 13 years only one
proved fatal. Yet some were very
serious: Johnny Coconut’s, for example.
On arrival at the hospital Johnny was
covered from head to foot with long,
deep slashes and toothmarks. His lugger
mates had carefully sewn him up in
canvas, and but for the promptness of
the matron in cutting him out of this
and putting him in a bath of Condy’s
crystals he would probably have haemor-
rhaged straight away. She then bandaged
up his wounds and made him as com-
fortable as possible until the operation
in the morning, when a few hanks of
surgical gut were necessary to sew him
up. Johnny still wanders around on the
boats doing his share to bring up the
shell.
4c ♦ H= *
“Tom Fool”: I should like to intro-
duce to “Dominic” (8/4/’36) a single
knot which, tied in any reasonable size
of rope short of a coir towing cable,
none but a professional rope-trick expert
could untie once it was applied to his
wrists. Known as the “tomfool’s knot”
because it looks so dashed easy to tie
and isn’t, I learned it from my dad, who
was taught it as a snotty in the days
when real seamanship was cherished in
the R.N. It takes a fraction of a second
to make and little more to apply. I have
used it on many, white and brown, and
no one has ever beaten it.
“Carrick, A. 8.”; It is possible to tie
anyone up without any rope or lashing of
any kind. Lead him to a smooth, thin sap-
ling, flagpole or something of the kind,
make him stand with his face against it
and knees slightly bent, stick the right
foot behind the left knee around the pole,
take the left foot and hook it around the
pole, and then make the victim squat by
pushing on his shoulders. He’s helpless
until someone comes to his aid. I know —
when I was a lad I spent a dog-watch
in this ridiculous predicament on the
fore-royal of a windjammer, with a
crowd of fools below laughing at me.
It was a week before the stiffness went
out of my legs.
PASTORAL.
Beside the creek a herd of cows are stringing;
An old red bull is limping in the rear ;
And close behind a sturdy lad is singing,
While overhead the sky is blue and clear.
A noisy troop of twelve apostles prattle
Among the saplings growing by the track;
A sprightly wagtail hovers o’er the cattle
Or flutters joyously from back to back.
A ewe upon the plain regards intently
Her lamb asleep upon a grassy bed;
A windmill by the creek is turning gently;
A great hawk skims and circles overhead.
The crooked sheep-pads wind like crazy fur-
rows ;
Worn through the changing seasons smooth
and deep,
They skirt the fallen trees and rabbit burrows
And mount the rugged hillsides, bare and
steep.
Like ladies with long unbound tresses flowing
A clump of myalls crown a little hill,
And close at hand, where cypress pines are
growing,
Alas! an axeman’s working with a will.
And now the farmyard: lambs and calves are
drowsing,
A group of hens crowd round a crowing
cock,
And on a sward where mares and foals are
browsing
A gallant gobbler leads a clucking flock.
N.S.W.
JIN GRAHAME.


PERMANENT PASTURES
The best results can only be
assured by using
THE BEST
P. 8.9 FERTILIZER
Because it ensures not only a quick
start to the grass, but also a suffi-
ciency of Plant Food throughout the
whole year, being a mixture of
quick-acting (Superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia) and slow-
acting (Blood and Bone) Manures.
Write for Pamphlets, Post Free.
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
Fertilizer Experts,
52 King Street, Sydney.
IN places LIKE this &
JIT A MAZDA
IN the tool shed, garage or that
glory-hole of yours under the
house there should be plenty of
light. Fit a Mazda.
Tkt
Coil
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
•\"J^
tol''*'
s.
?v*
V A
4?
m.
n
.
Jor
t/i/4 L
HANDSOME
NEW
CRTRLOCUE
MENSiL#
WEAR
mt
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM IT TO
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Buying “Joined” Ewes.
“Seenitall”: Seldom does the price
asked for “joined” ewes warrant the cost.
That is my conclusion, based on two
years of closely-watched buying. In one
instance only were they properly joined
and the return worth the additional price
paid. Even then two distinct drops took
place, separated by seven weeks.
Remember that in a saleyard you buy
what you see, and with all its faults.
Unfortunately, because one hears it said
that the ewes are joined it doesn’t follow
that they will have any lambs Unless
the ewes look well in lamb —and beware
of “dropped” bellies in old ewes —pay
unjoined price or leave them alone.
Recently a man leased 10 l.w. rams from
us for a month to join with a large mob
of ewes. They were later sold “joined
to longwools.” It is highly improbable
that there would have been a 15 p.c. lamb-
ing. L.w. rams don’t work fast, need
a large percentage for good results, and
should be yarded and left much longer
than a month. I have had years of ex-
perience with these breeds, and unless
one takes a deal of trouble lambings are
always light.
Unless you know the vendor well, it
is best to rejoin any ewes bought as de-
scribed. It is always a good idea to put
in merino rams anyhow. They pick up
many a ewe that unyarded l.ws. have left.
New Dipping Device,
“B-gar”: Demonstrations were given
at the Royal Sydney Show by the inven-
tor, J. Y. Shannon, of Rodney Downs,
Ilfracombe (Q.), of a device for dipping
sheep as a counter against blowfly strike.
The thing is easy to work and allows
every sheep to get a thorough immer-
sion in the mixture. The bath containing
the arsenical fluid is let into the ground,
with the topmost portion on a level with
the race. Attached to the top of the bath
is the tip, worked with a hand lever. As
each sheep enters, it is automatically
compelled to sit back in a leather-
strapped seat, where it remains until its
own weight, assisted by man-power on the
lever, causes the tip to lower into the dip
mixture.
The whole of the after-part of the
sheep receives a thorough soaking, and
after being kept immersed for a few
seconds the tip is tilted up and the sheep
passes out through to the draining pen.
As there is no splash and provi-
sion is made for the mixture to pass back
through the strainer of an underground
tank to the dip, the plant is economical
and there is no risk of employees con-
tracting arsenical poisoning.
One big advantage of the invention is
that, should crutch-strike take place close
to shearing, only the more dirty and less
valuable portion of the fleece comes into
contact with the dip mixture. At Rod-
ney Downs 2200 sheep can be put
through in eight hours.
Starvation and Drenching.
“Liss”: The belief persists among a
large number of sheepmen that it is
necessary to starve sheep overnight be-
fore drenching. But experiments have
proved that if there is any difference
between starving and not starving it
is in favor of the latter.
In the first place, it should be under-
stood that the dose must be introduced
into the fourth stomach (abomasum) to
give benefit.
The idea behind prior starvation is that
it tends to reduce the contents of this
receptacle, and thus reduces the degree of
dilution that the drench is subject to on
arrival there.
It is far more likely that the reverse
is the case. As a sheep grazes, the food
is passed into the rumen, or paunch,
where it undergoes certain changes until
remasticated, or the cud is chewed, when
it passes to the third and fourth stomachs
(omasum and abomasum).
Therefore, when sheep are brought in
from the paddock and drenched immedi-
ately, only waiting for them to cool off,
their fourth stomachs are apt to be as
empty as they ever will be, whereas if
they are left in the yard overnight the
animals will chew the cud and so transfer
the contents of their rumens to their
fourth stomachs.
Starvation after drenching is, however,
important. Water should be withheld for
an hour or two. Bluestone causes the
oesophageal groove to close, by reflex
action, and any water taken by the animal
soon after drenching will pass to the
abomasum and dilute the dose.
Droving Sheep.
“Glentronie”: Most sheepmen will
agree that “Red Wul” (B. 8/4/’36) does
no't correct “Winfield,” but both are right.
The technique of droving in fenced
lanes is entirely different from that em-
ployed on the open routes of western
N.S.W. and Queensland.
Knowing both, I can say that it is far
easier to fill a sheep on the open routes
than in the fenced lanes, and, although
the fenced-lane drover is smiled upon by
his brother of the open routes, he is very
often the better shepherd.
To see that the “tail” get their share of
the feed and that the weakest sheep get
the best should be his constant care. The
most successful method is to split the
mob and put the cook’s cart in the
middle. After a mile or two, the lead is
shunted down a lane and the “tail” takes
its place in the lead of the mob.
Thus each sheep gets its share of fresh
feed, and the “tail” does not grow
gradually weaker by picking over
trampled and polluted leavings.
Moreover, the drover delivers an even
mob.
Fat Lambs Again.
“Spring”: By experiment we have col-
lected some interesting information con-
cerning the best ages for rams. In all
cases the rams used were stud English
Leicesters and the ewes a good, plain-
bodied merino carrying a 64-74’s wool.
Splitting a mob of eight-tooth ewes
with the drafting race, we joined half with
5 p.c. four-tooth rams and half with 5 p.c.
eight-tooths. Both -mobs were yarded
regularly; all sheep were in good
order, and rams were fat when put
to work. In our experience it is a fallacy
to keep them any other way. If they
don’t start in good order they soon lose
vitality and get bad percentages.
Allowing for uneven losses at lambing,
the younger rams gave 20 p.c. more lambs
than the old ones.
We have found that nothing over a six-
tooth stud ram should be used for fat-
lamb breeding if you want high percent-
ages. Anything older seems to become
lazy very quickly.
It is good policy to pull out hard-
working rams for a week or so and feed
them up on lucerne.
Lambs from small ewes take longer
to mature and don’t carry weight. Best
cull these from any mob or join to
merinos. Better, don’t use too small ewes.
The concentrated recipe for success in
fat-lamb breeding in our case has been
young stud rams, big ewes, not too old,
constant yarding when joined, plenty of
feed for both sexes and adequate care at
lambing-time.
“Watery” Eye in Horses.
“Horsey”: This trouble should be
treated at once, as it is usually a form
of conjunctivitis, or acute inflammation.
It sets up further inflammation in the
tear duct and blocks it, with the result
that the eye overflows its tears out-
side instead of into the nostril, attracts
flies, or else keeps the inflamed condi-
tion chronically.
Bathing the eye constantly with lotions
made from boracic or zinc sulphate
should be tried, with the application at
night of mild boracic ointment. The
lotions* should be used warm to prevent
shock to the eye and trouble in treat-
ment.
If the trouble has been left unattended
for some time and chronic conditions are
present, don’t look for a speedy cure.
Only patience will do the job. The in-
flammation must be removed before the
tear duct will function normally.
An “All-purpose” Supplement.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Protein supplements,
whether fed to cattle, sheep, poultry or
pigs, usually contain round about 20 p.c.
protein, 4 p.c. to 8 p.c. fat and a small
quantity of minerals, notably lime and
phosphorus.
Efforts have been made at various
times to evolve a mixture that would
combine utility with economy, and prove
suitable for all classes of stock. An ex-
periment is reported from Ohio wherein
a mixture comprising 30 parts meatmeal,
30 parts soya-bean meal, 20 parts cot-
tonseed meal, 15 parts linseed meal, 2
parts limestone ground, 2 parts bone-
meal and 1 part salt was used. Fed to
fattening calves, dairy cows, pigs, fat
lambs or laying hens it gave results
stated to be very satisfactory, and com-
paring favorably with those obtained
against other supplements in common
use.
Soya-bean meal is not produced in
Australia in commercial quantities, but a
mixture could probably be devised of
similar composition, and the “all-pur-
pose” supplement, made up in large
quantities, could be sold at a price less
than it costs the farmer for a decent
mixture when ingredients are purchased
separately.
The high percentage of meatmeal is
something of a departure from conven-
tion, and we could undoubtedly make
more use of the by-products of our meat-
works and abattoirs. Other experiments
have shown that high-grade meatmeal
is a splendid source of protein for dairy
cows, does not taint the milk nor affect
the whipping qualities of the cream,
whilst the mineral content is valuable,
especially for the gestating cow.
Crops in Argentina.
“Ranchero”: The report of W. J.
Spafford, S.A.’s Deputy Director of
Agriculture, on S. American and S.
African conditions is illuminating. The
Argentine has 74,175,000 acres under cul-
tivation and 306,636,000 under livestock.
Much of the secret of its success with
stock for meat, as compared with that of
Australia, is evident from a glance at the
agricultural figures. Australia has about
26,000,000 acres under crop. But the
Argentine has 36,000,000 acres under
maize and wheat alone. And while the
Commonwealth can normally boast only
about 4,000,000-odd acres under all
classes of hay and green forage, the
Argentines have 13,400,000 acres of
lucerne alone —nearly twice the Austra-
lian cultivation area outside wheat. The
area under linseed is nearly equal to
the whole Australian cultivated acreage,
inclusive of fruits, vines, sugarcane,
tobacco and cotton. And yet there is
scarcely enough linseed to supply the
republic’s needs!
The cattle census —last taken in 1930
—was 32,211,855, or about three times
the number of Australian beefs, and. the
youth of the turnover is plain from the
fact that about 4,000,000 p.a. go into
local consumption and another 1,718,000
are exported.
Mr. Spafford says that if lucerne had
not proved a remarkable success the
Argentine would not have made its pro-
gress in beef production. It has solved
both the pasture and the weed problem.
Mr. S. is very right, and though he
points out that millions of Argentine
acres are ideal lucerne land, rich silt from
Ift. to 2ft. deep, there is no reason why
millions more acres should not be turned
into beef in the Commonwealth, which
has been cursed with an inferiority com-
plex about alfalfa.
Only now are Australian farmers be-
ginning to learn that, with proper treat-
ment and inoculation and patience for a
season or two, lucerne can be grown in
most coastal areas south of the tropic and
to some extent north of it.
They were almost as slow to realise
it, as they are to-day to capitulate to the
idea that beef-raising for the prime ex-
port trade must be made a farming rather
than a grazing proposition.
With the Argentine’s huge lucerne
acreage goes immense storage. Every
Argentine holding has its big fodder
stacks against the day of drought.
Mineral Depletion of Soil.
“Jonah” : Nevertheless, “The 0.D.” (B.
15/4/’36), there is a grave danger of ex-
hausting phosphate supplies, as a simple
calculation would show. At the present
rate of usage by Australian farmers, and
provided there is no increase, it is esti-
mated that main sources of phosphate,
such as Nauru and Ocean Island, will
last only another 100 to 150 years. When
they are used up, which possibly could
happen within 50 years, if usage in-
creases at the present rate, the other avail-
able sources are so poor in quality,
though extensive, that the price of super,
will be much greater. Some of these
low-grade deposits are in the north of
N.S.W,
A great deal of phosphate is finding its
way out to sea from the overgrown capi-
tal cities. There is almost no conservation
of the phosphorus removed from the
soil as fodder or as meat constituent.
Sixty years of cropping would remove
about half a ton of phosphoric acid from
a single acre with yearly crops. This is
not a large concentration for any surface
soil to have, and there is always an equal-
ising movement of minerals in soil when
wet. Phosphoric acid can be drawn up
from great depths to surface soil if it is
actually there.
The great trouble in Australia is that
we have so few areas that are anything
but poor in phosphorus. Take the Goul-
burn Valley and north of Victoria, where
cropping has been going on for 50 or
more years. Soils in these districts to-day
are definitely phosphate-lacking compared
with even 20 years ago. In fact, the
general wheat-manuring in southern Aus-
tralia has gone up from 601 b. an acre to
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


mm
&SI
ANJ
£‘ : , . *
s. \fr.
«is
INTRODUCING. .
7%e Transport of the Future
INTERNATIONAL’S NEWEST UTILITY
m
m
Specially designed for those who have need of a beautiful motor-car which has the
added convenience of useful carrying capacity . . . International's newest Utility fills a want
that has been long felt. Beautiful . . . Smart .. . Flashing .. . this streamlined Utility gives you
at once the satisfying appearance and comfort of a luxurious modern car together with
the facilities for moving loads that would in a very short time spell disaster to the ordinary
motor-car utility.
For this new International was built for rugged endurance, strength and staying power, the greatest triumph
being the way in which these inward masculine qualities are cloaked by its
slender lines, sweeping curves and outward feminine grace.
Think twice about buying a new car , . . International Utilities are the transport
of the future, combining pleasure with business, and business with profit.
Come for a trial run —note the remarkable riding qualities due to International
double-acting hydraulic shock absorbers—the smooth flow of power from the
famous International engine—the high class body work and trimmings—and
then note the amazing low price of this beautiful all-purpose vehicle.
CHASSIS PRICES:
113 W.b.
£267
125 w.b.
(Plus tax)
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATIONAL UTILITIES
R. 1447


THE BEST OF ANYTHING
IS CHEAPEST IN THE END.
This Abbey Shoe is the best. For
the man who likes the best, in shoes
as in clothes, this shoe always satis-
fies. Made of Imported Calf, it is
definitely good looking, can be worn
on all occasions and will give to
its wearer a long life of ease and
smartness. Leather lining through-
out also makes for comfort and
strength. Stocked in full and half
sizes, and medium and wide fittings.
Also ask for a tin of Abbey special
polish. Only 6d,
Black Velour Calf 457-
Brown Calf 45/-
45/-
Write for our latest
catalogue. It has many
other snapes which you will want to see.
Post free on request.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
W.A. 27.
PIUMMOR-CMARD
r -^^ lf :; ,»>>>-<<<<'<'< —• ~v.<y < ia o SsSP f \W
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 3 2/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/- ; with guard, 24 /6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for tin.. Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
I 7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready tor
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
vears free of charge
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
ICHUTE
BELLcCft
f
sc
IF
PERSONAL
attention
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
• r
mi
m
A
.
i :
iiuA
Fortnightly Sailings -
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes ?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
17 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney. —Advt.
901 b. in a mere 10 years. This reflects
increasing soil hunger for the super, con-
stituents.
Some Vic. Western District pasture
paddocks, always mowed for hay, show
after a few years a big potash deficiency.
It’s quite certain you cannot remove
needed minerals from soil without replac-
ing them.
The Pear and Cherry Borer.
“K.M.”: The former host of this
native moth was the wattle, but it has
turned its attention to the cultivated
cherry, pear, peach and plum.
The adult measures about Hin. across
the outspread wings, which are a clear
white with a sheen. Each forewing has
a small, elongated, vertical black spot in
the centre. The head and thorax are
white, while the abdomen is black richly
marked with orange, which recedes to a
thick hairy tuft at the extremity of the
body.
The moth deposits her eggs in cracks
in the bark, and the young larvae on
hatching tunnel straight into the centre
of the branch and turn downward. By
the time the larva is full grown this
tunnel is 2in. or 3in. long. By day the
The Pear and Cherry Borer
(Cryptophaga unipuncta).
larva remains concealed in the burrow,
emerging at night to feed on the bark
round the entrance to the burrow or on
hanging leaves. The burrow entrance
and the barked surrounding area are
covered over with a thick felted sheet
formed of silk—an effective camouflage
to the damaged area.
A full-grown caterpillar is Hin. long,
dull reddish-brown and smooth except
for scattered hairs or bristles. When it
can eat no more it pupates in the vertical
part of the tunnel, plugging up the pas-
sage with a tightly-fitted wad of chewed
wood-fragments matted with silk.
To control, remove the felted web
from over the entrance to the burrow
and insert a piece of wire to the full
length of the tunnel, twisting it to kill
the concealed larva. The caterpillar is
very soft, and a small scratch from the
wire will kill it. A little kerosene will
drive the caterpillar out of its burrow.
Put it in with an oilcan.
Grow Your Own Timber.
“Albarmount”; Reafforestation is not
only needed to check wind and water
erosion. On scores of properties not
subject to erosion, not a stick of timber
is left to replace fencing. All timber
has to be purchased elsewhere, entailing
needless hauling and expense. A fifth
of the time wasted in this work employed
in growing trees would keep most small
graziers in N.S.W. coastal and sub-coastal
areas supplied with timber. Also, trees
conserve moisture, add beauty and pro-
vide necessary shelter.
Seedlings of indigenous trees such as
box, stringybark and gums are not
difficult to replant provided the taproots
are well grubbed. Dig the holes a week
or so beforehand and put out in June
and July. If the weather is dry, a couple
of waterings may be needed.
These trees do not require very rich
soil, and if sown on fairly barren spots
the shelter will attract stock, and their
manure will build up soil fertility.
On the plains, of course, it is difficult
to get young trees started, and good
seasons- should be chosen for planting.
Restoring Fertility.
“The 0.D.”: We hear a lot these days
of worn-out wheat land, but little about
restoring its lost fertility. Make up your
mind to throw the old paddock out of
wheat for six to eight years, work it up
well, let it lie fallow for a year, then
sow lucerne with a cover crop of oats.
After the oats, let the lucerne go on as
a grazing proposition, renovating and
top-dressing at suitable periods. Get the
right type of lamb-breeders—Southdown
rams and first-cross Romney-merino
ewes are a good line —manage your graz-
ing carefully, and during the six or eight
years you should take as much profit
off that paddock in lambs and wool as
you would in wheat.
When you put the land back into
wheat, you should get a high-yielding,
disease-free crop from the restored land.
Some of the lucerne will survive the
wheat, and your stubble will provide rich
grazing.
That’s what T. E. Gorman, of Yerong
Creek (Riverina), did, and his first crop
on the restored land won him a divisional
R.A.S. championship in a year when
high yields and clean crops were the
rule.
Contour Banks.
“Granova”: Contour banks on wheat
country can be built up with a disc, but
a big delver will do the job in half the
time and will leave a smooth drain for
the water to flow along.
Cut and straighten out a foot-wide
harvester-wheel tyre. Mark off 6ift. for
the delver blade, and bend the remainder
back to an angle of 30 degrees.
Cut a 10ft. hardwood log down to a
foot square, and cut one end to a chisel
point to fit in the angle of the tyre. Bolt
the part of the tyre not wanted for the
blade flat to and place two heavy
iron stays across from the log to the
blade. Bolt a plank across the stays for
the operators to stand on.
Fasten a drag chain on the body of
the delver 2ft. from the nose and again
on the inside of the blade, 2ft. from the
rear. An adjustable link, through which
the drag chain is threaded, takes the pull
of the team.
Reversing the delver is simply a matter
of tipping it over and rehooking the
blade end of the drag chain.
Six horses will pull a delver of this
type when repairing banks that have been
damaged by cultivation, but 10 are
needed when building up new banks after
the plough.
Hints for the Farm.
“Thylungra”: Without emptying the
water, small holes in the house tank can
be mended in emergency- by mixing
gidya ashes and fat. Method: Melt fat
and add sufficient ashes to form a firm
paste ; then plaster on. At Durham
Downs (s.-w. Q.) a path 15 yards long
was laid down in 1929 with the same
mixture, and is standing up to it yet.
“Kyabra”: To make a spider adjust-
able to any windmill, cut from the 2in.-
face centre of a piece of hardwood or
bush timber, 4in. x 2in., a piece large
enough for the spear to work smoothly.
Now take a piece of flat iron iin. x
x 12in,, with a hole each end to take a
iin. x sin. bolt. Use this as a clamp to
hold the spear in position. Use two
fin. x sin. J bolts to clamp into the
frame. If a pump head is in the mill,
loosen one of the -jin. bolts and allow the
iron band to swing. Pull the spear over,
and the rods will have clearance to work
without moving the spider.
“J.C.W.”: An example of what can
be done with pasture improvement is to
be seen on T. E. Hood’s property of
3200 acres at Tantallon, Orange (N.S.W.).
Half has been top-dressed and carries
subterranean clover, lucerne and Wim-
mera rye. Over 700 acres were treated
in 1935 and twice that area this year.
In two years the sheep have been in-
creased from 1700 to 3000. Hood hopes
to bring numbers to 4000 in the next
two years. In 1935 90 per cent, of the
lambs were sold as prime suckers, and
brought top prices. Two years ago only
50 per cent, were prime suckers, and
just reached the average price. The aver-
age weight of the wether crossbred
suckers worked out at 351 b.
“G.G.6”: Planting of indigenous
fodder grasses is catching on in southern
Queensland. The Hirschfelds began
with Mitchell and Flinders grasses on
their property at Bybera, and gave the
experiment all the publicity they could.
Now, all along the south-west border, in
what used to be the Australian Pastoral
Company’s holdings, men are collecting
the seed from these grasses and replant-
ing it. Both varieties rank with the
finest natural fodder in the world, and,
given anything like fair treatment in the
matter of stocking, their deep-rooting
habit makes them almost impervious to
drought.


HOTEL
Bent, Phillip
METROPOLE
and Young Streets, Sydney
till
11
E
■
If!
a
: i g
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“Judge Shot.”— “Sun” heading.
That should end for all time the old
“sober as a Judge” idea,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Application was made to the Court by
David Smith, a tired farmer.”
— “Telegraph.”
Well, wouldn’t being a farmer make
anybody tired?
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Novel Idea.
I don’t know why it is, but the authors
of nearly every novel I’ve read seem to
have a hankering for the tall woman.
Every time I pick one up (a novel, I
mean) the heroine is invariably described
by such phrases as “a noble stature en-
hanced her superb dignity,” “her tall,
billowy beauty,” “she drew herself up
to her full, com-
manding height,”
and all that bunk.
Now, if the author
were only honest
with himself his tall
heroine would be
nicknamed “String-
beans” or be referred
to as a “gawk” or a
“long, skinny slab,”
“straight up and
down like a door”
or by other real-life
terms.
You will note how
authors always asso-
ciate the word “com-
manding” with “tall-
ness” in descriptions
of women. The terms
are synonymous. Did
one ever meet a
meek woman with a
Junoesque figure,
eyebrows like
George Robey and a
basso-cantante voice?
That type makes me shudder.
Anyhow, I’m not struck on tall women
myself. They’re not so easy to handle
as the small type, and they’re never as
dainty. I like the adorable little bits of
femininity who have to stand on tiptoe to
look up into your eyes. Every man, I
think, would prefer to risk getting a kink
in his neck bending down to kiss a
woman rather than to meet her on equal
terms with regard to height. It gives the
mushy sport that extra hazard which
occasionally makes it worth while.
Nothing, to my mind, is more un-
gainly or ridiculous than the spectacle
of a tall woman stooping down to pick
up a coin she’s dropped or reaching up
a long and seemingly telescopic arm to
get something off the top shelf.
Perhaps my aversion to the tall woman
may be due to the fact that I go about
sft. 4in, And also because my wife, even
without the full stilts she will insist on
wearing, is exactly sft. 1 lin.
Quayeau.
-I* 4- *1- 4-
“Wife Might Keep Hitler Balanced.”
—Newspaper cable.
But wouldn’t a widow answer the pur-
pose better?
v v 4-
“Melbourne makes record for amount of
water used in year.”— “Argus.”
That’s the worst of these “Drink More
Milk” campaigns.
4* 4* 4* 4*
" ‘ln the early days in Australia men were
often paid for their labor, not in money, but
in some strange currency,’ said the lecturer.”
That was rum!
Sissy job, isn't it? 1 wouldn't be doing it only she's an
old friend."
Too right, its sissy! Can't see anything in this marriage business—
women never did appeal to me.”
•‘Mr. Hughes, who has had five private
secretaries since joining the present Ministry,
said that the suggestion of his devouring his
secretaries was greatly exaggerated.”
— “D.T.,” 15/4 /’ 36.
“Riding in Mr. Hughes’s car, which was
damaged in a collision, Mr. E. B. Fry,
assistant-secretary to Mr. Hughes, sustained a
lacerated forehead.” — “D.T.,” 20/4T36.
After all, fear of cannibalism and the
perpetually imminent possibility of being
blown up in a verbal explosion are only
two of the secretarial hazards.
Tom Pepper Outpeppered.
“No Betting Allowed on These
Premises.”
“Moddom, ze hat it make you look so
young.”
“No, thanks ; I’m off it for good.”
“I’d lend you my last shilling, old man,
but”
“Good-bai, my dear ; we’ve had such
a marvellous taime.”
“Mussolini had nothing to say.”
D. Me.
|>J«
Isn’t it strange that the people who go
the pace are the most likely to stop at
nothing?
4* 4* 4* 'F
The Bigger-zone Plan.
Now that the world is discussing plans
for demilitarised zones seems the right
time to put forward my own plan. Its
great idea is to declare the whole world
a demilitarised zone, excepting the two
Poles.
Here is a chance to utilise the waste
spaces of the world with a possibility of
a profit.
If nations want to fight, let them go
to one of the Poles, or, for a really big
war, both of them, with a special proviso
that the people who authorise it must go,
too.
A billion-pound international fight
control committee could be formed to
control the extraneous circumstances. The
committee could draw royalties from the
shipping which would be in demand for
transport of troops and stores. It would
run ferry services and collect fees for
sightseers on grandstands erected on
handy icebergs. Then there would be the
revenue from broadcasting and moving-
picture rights.
After provision for a home for ex-
patriated penguins there should be an
enormous profit, with a percentage to go
to charity. All I want out of it is my
half per cent, royalty on turnover.
H. M.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XII. — Ole Man Murray.
The River Murray is somewhat similar
to other famous streams. Like the Mis-
sissippi it plants neither taters nor cotton,
and doesn’t say anything, and (in this
respect resembling also the Thames) it
goes rolling along.
At least its general idea is to roll along,
but agencies outside its control hamper
it so much that it sometimes almost for-
gets what it set out to do.
Firstly, when droughts cut off its supply
it quits rolling, and either trickles, idles
or just stops altogether.
Secondly, people without any apprecia-
tion of Nature or regard for the song-
rights of rivers have built locks and bar-
rages which greatly hinder rolling acti-
vities. It’s very unsporting, to say the
least. Here is a river setting out under
its own power and asking no more of
Providence than to be allowed to roll
along, neither fretting nor fussing, nor
interfering with anyone in any way, and
yet every man’s hand, it seems, is against
it.
Engineers fling dams and things across
it; orchardists steal its water; lock-
keepers impound it, and cows, horses and
children drink it neat. Taking it all round,
the chances of any particular drop of the
Murray ever rolling right down to the
mighty sea are very remote indeed. It
must be very discouraging to an ambi-
tious stream, and it is high time a Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Rivers
was formed.
I said as much to the Whipsnoodles.
Sir Percy volunteered to become Patron
of the Society.
Claude Counterpane, who shuddered
when he heard that some people drank
the Murray, was also interested. He con-
sidered that the river should be allowed
to roll on in peace, and suggested that
if more hotels were built along its banks
this might go a long way towards achiev-
ing the desired effect.
Mrs. Loofah said, “Stuff and nonsense!
If the river was there it was obviously
there for a purpose, and that to allow it
merely to roll away to the sea was to
waste a God-given gift.” Her husband,
after a baleful glance from his spouse,
said “Yes, of course.”
Miss Birdseed, for a wonder, said no-
thing, but was busy with her notebook.
This was the result (see Chapter XV,
A ntipodean A ntics ) i
TO A MURRAY COD.
O handsome fish with gaping jaws
And saturnine, expression,
7he reason you are sad’s because
You’re feeling this Depression.
They’ve ta’en your water all away —.
You’ve only mud to lie in—
Presaging (dreadful thought ) the fat
Which one day you will fry in.
Jasby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man in America has announced his in-
tention of giving 500 dollars each to 20
criminals to give them a start in an honest
life.”
Hold your hand out, naughty boy!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After their marriage he found that she was
not his ideal: she was too careful, too syste-
matic, too methodical.” — Short storv.
From the sublime to the meticulous!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“They objected to plaintiff’s proposal to
marry their mother. They did not go so
far that they objected to his visits to (he
house as a friend.”— “Sun.”
But they would not go a step father.
Benedict-ion.
“Thirteen Times Best Man. Bridegroom
Yesterday.”— “S. M. Herald.”
So oft he'd been best-man that it became
Without a doubt a joke.
Full thirteen times he watched Love’s
fateful flame
Consume another bloke.
And while his reckless spirit I admire,
I would have thought some gumption
he’d acquire;
But, no, he never learned
That he who plays incautiously with fire
In course of time gets burned.
P.O.M.C.
Rabid Ratiocination.
Shirkwork Domes, the celebrated
sleuth, gazed at the clouds of smoke bil-
lowing from his meerschaum.
“I see, my dear Watsthis,” he said,
“that the papers report thieves break-
ing into a Waterloo factory and
stealing a barrel containing 4cwt. of
sausage-skins. The co.’s officials express
mystification as to how they hoisted such
a weight over the fence.”
“Have you any theory regarding the
thieves?”
“Dispense with the plural, Watsthis.
It was the work of one thief. I would
say a single thief, but this one is mar-
ried —well married. The police should
seek a weedy man wearing a flower in
his buttonhole whose wife has just gone
on an extended holiday.”
“Marvellous!” exclaimed Dr. Wats-
this. “And how did you arrive at this
amazing deduction?”
“Absurdly simple, my dear Watsthis,”
said the great sleuth. “Who else but one
facing weeks, perhaps months, of batch-
ing would be interested in sausages? It
is the grass-bachelor’s staple food. The
type of individual who puts up with his
wife’s going on holidays alone is always
weedy and a gardening fiend, a true
slave to Suburbia. He would thieve the
skins for reasons of economy. The
greatest cost of a sausage is its skin.
He would, therefore, merely have to
purchase sausage meat and stuff it into
the skins. The reasoning is faultless.”
“True, but how could such a weedy
fellow get a 4cwt. barrel over the fence
on his own?” asked Dr. Watsthis trium-
phantly.
Domes smiled inscrutably.
“The simplest thing of all,” he said
gently. “Any sausage addict knows the
resiliency of the skin of his favorite
fruit, possessing as it does the consis-
tency of rubber. The thief wrapped
several bundles of skins round the
barrel and pushed it out the window. It
bounced straight over the fence. . All he
had to do was to roll it”
But Dr. Watsthis had gone out to it.
S. W. K.
Dessert.
Arriving home when all at sea,
About the midnight hour,
I woke my wife to cook for me
A pickled cauliflower !
But, scorning my desire to sup
With such untimely hurry,
She waited till I sobered up —
And then she gave me curry !
T. W. N.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:—
THE BRIDLE TRUCK
By J.J. HARDIE
Chapter XVIII. —( Continued).
THEY pulled up in a quiet corner to repair the
external damage wrought in the excitement, Elaine
felt weak with the reaction and clung to Bill’s
sleeve. At last she faced him with a tinge of regret
in her eyes.
“Lancelot, it has been a perfectly gorgeous day,
but I’ll have to go back to my party or they’ll report
me to the police as lost. By the bye, when will I
return Percy’s clothes? No, no. Stop!” she inter-
rupted him. “No names. No addresses. Remember
our bargain! Anyhow, who is Percy?”
“Heavens!”
“That was Percy on the black filly!”
She stared at him, a question burning its way
to her lips.
“And T. Brannigan—was it his whisky we carried
last night?”
“He’s my cook, alias the Desolated Cokernut.”
“One more question, Lancelot. Who is the real
owner of the black filly?”
He looked at her with a modest grin.
“A fellow about my size!”
She contemplated him seriously for a little while,
then said slowly:
“I’m afraid I’ll have to revise my opinion of
drovers!” She held out her hand. “Well, good-bye,
Lancelot!”
He took the hand and stared at her with a puzzled
frown. “You’re not going yet?”
She nodded. “We’re going on to-morrow.”
“What are you doing to-night?” '
“Someone’s giving us a party; I forget their
name.”
“Must you go?”
She nodded firmly, but her eyes were kind. “I’ll
leave Percy’s things at the hotel office addressed to—
let me see —to ‘Mr. Lance.’ ” ’
He acquiesced abstractedly. All the exhilaration
and intoxication of the day seemed to have suddenly
ebbed, leaving him painfully sober. „ _ -
“When are you leaving, Elaine?”
“Sometime to-morrow.”
“If I bring the horses round will you come for
a ride before breakfast?”
She hesitated, her eyes gleaming as she considered
the invitation, then she turned quickly.
“Right-oh, Lancelot! But not too early. Say
about nine. Cheerio!”
She raised a slim, gloved hand in farewell, then
disappeared in the crowd.
Chapter XIX.
BILL rose early after a night of roseate dreams
through which danced a slim, laughing damsel
with auburn hair nestling close round her head
and grey eyes that smiled tantalisihgly from under
long, dark eyelashes. It was a beautiful morning, and
he hummed lightheartedly as he groomed the two horses
and saddled them with extra care.
He rode round to Elaine’s hotel just before nine,
lit a cigarette and tried to curb his impatience. After
the third cigarette he led the horses across to the
opposite side of the street in full view of the upper
verandah, and waited there. At half-past nine he
mounted and rode to the corner and back several
times with a growing consciousness of the number of
curious glances directed at him.
At ten o’clock he could wait no longer. He
thrust his way into the bar and beckoned the bar-
man. to one side. “Mick, do you know if there’s a
visitor upstairs—girl of about twenty-five —short, dark-
red hair?”
He hesitated there ; no use telling him the color
of her eyes or describing the delicious, sensitive curl
of her short upper lip.
The barman scratched his head.
“There’s about twinty red-haired wimmen stop-
pin’ here, but wait an’ I’ll ask at the office.”
Bill read from his expression as he returned that
he had drawn a blank. He was at a loss to know
what to do. He couldn’t tramp through the hotel
calling “Elaine!” or investigating every room. What
could have kept her?
Another thought presented itself. He turned cold
at the idea, but it had to be faced. He presented him-
self at the office.
“Is there a parcel here for Mr. Lance?”
The girl dived an arm under the table and pushed
a brown-paper parcel at him. “From Mrs. Barlow
that right?”
“Mrs. Barlow!” he echoed faintly. “What does
she look like?”
“I only saw her when she paid her bill this
morning. Young woman, short auburn hair, nice
teeth, dressed in a”
‘Thanks —that would be her!” He turned the
parcel over and found an envelope pinned to it. He
ripped it open and scanned the few lines penned in
a large, bold hand.
Lancelot, —
We are leaving early in the morning, so I’ll
probably miss you. It has been a gorgeous time.
Good-bye,
Elaine.
He stuffed the letter clumsily into his pocket,
looked dully about at the 'people hurrying to and fro
preparatory to returning to their homes, and at the
loungers in the doorway. There was a dull ache
inside him. . “Mrs. Barlow!” So that was why she
insisted on remaining Elaine!
His lips tightened savagely. Well, he wasn’t
going to make a fool of himself because a girl had
had a bit of fun at his expense. Not on your life!
There were lots of other girls in the world that he
could soon square the account with. No more of
this sentimental stuff for him.
He strode roughly through the loungers, slipped
into the saddle and went up the street at a brisk
canter. He would start out immediately and pick up
that mob of cattle. A bit of work would do him good.
To hell with all women anyhow!
Chapter XX.
IT was very peaceful on the dark verandah. The
night air was warm and heavy, and the only regular
sound that impinged on the velvety silence was the
shrill keening of the mosquitoes. At intervals the
slow gruff voice of Mac speaking on the telephone
floated out, muffled and indistinct. From the dam
a sheep bleated with a throaty quaver, and one of
Mac’s dogs at the back of the house rattled his chain
and whined plaintively. Bill, in shirt-sleeves, lay back
half-asleep in a long canvas chair, indistinct in the
darkness save for the ghostly white blur of his shirt
and the intermittent glow of his cigarette.
The voice at the telephone ceased. The wavering
beam of a lamp preceded .the sound of heavy foot-
steps, then the flyproof door squeaked open and
slammed shut again. Mac placed the hurricane lamp
on a-.small table and subsided heavily into a chair.
He had grown thicker with the years. There was
no surplus- flesh on his short-necked, square body,
and his weather-beaten. had a set, mature
look , that gave him the'appearance of being years
older than Bill.
Except for a thinning of Bill’s fine, reddish hair
and. portents of its receding from the temples, he
had changed practically not at all.
Mac broke the five minutes’ silence that followed
his return.’/.‘‘That, was Morrison.”
A sleepy grunt from the man opposite. “What’s
he want? Sell more sheep?”
“No. Wants to know if he can bring out a
buyer.”
“What sort of buyer—sheep, horses? Tell’m I
got no horses for sale.”
“No. This fellow wants to look at the property.”
“Hey!” Bill sat bolt upright in his chair and
stared at his partner. “What did you tell him?”
“Told him I’d have a yarn with you about it
and let him know.”
“Mm-mm!” Bill sank slowly back into his chair
and relapsed into a thoughtful silence.
Mac watched him steadily for a while, then cleared
his throat warningly. “Well, what do you think?”
The man opposite stirred slightly.
“Don’t know yet. It would matter more to you
than to me. I spend most of my time on the road
and only use the place to spell my horses and have
a bit of a lay-off myself. You’ve done all the work.
Managed the place, improved it, bought sheep and
bred them, and all I’ve done is supply a bit of cash
or draw a cheque when I feel like celebrating.”
Mac parried the shifting of responsibility with
a question, “Well, what do you think of our pros-
pects? We’ve made a lot of money. Seasons have
been only fair, but we’ve been lucky, and sheep and
wool are booming to-day. But what about to-morrow
and the next day?”
“That’s what I’m trying to work out. Personally, I
reckon the price they’re paying for our wool is
100 high to last. A few years ago we were glad to
get eightpence a pound for it, and now they’re paying
around forty pence. And look at the price of sheep! ”
He shifted aggrievedly in his chair. “When a man
offers you as much for a stupid wether as for a good
sort of a steer, there’s something wrong somewhere,”
A faint smile hovered in Mac’s deep-set eyes.
“Then you think this is a good time to sell?”
Bill hesitated before the direct question.
“We-ell, if we could find anyone mad enough
to buy at present values we’d be damned fools to
hang on. But make certain the cash is right. We
don’t want to hand things over for a stack of
mortgages. What do you think of the proposition?
Mac considered in silence, his lips pressed tightly
together, then he delivered his verdict: “I’m whiling
to sell!” After a few moments he went on: “I didn't
come to Queensland to settle down. Mind you, 1
like the place, but —well, I want to go south again ;
not for a holiday this time, but for good.”
The dim light- veiled Bill’s mischievous smile but
not the bantering hole in his voice.
“Going down to plank your bankbook in front
of the girl and say, ‘Now, then, what about it?’ He
chuckled softly. “And you’ve only seen her twice
in the last six years! She.must be a marvel to have
waited all that time for you!”
Mac wriggled uneasily. “It isn’t just that,” he
answered doggedly. “It’s the old man. He’s pretty
sick, and I don’t think he’ll last long.”
“Sorry, Mac ; 1 didn’t know.”
Mac’s eyes looked unseeingly out into the night,
and he voiced his drifting thoughts in slow, hesitant
phrases.
“Our place down there is a bit small. I’ll sell
and buy a bigger place. It’s good, sound country.
They have their droughts, but not like we get them
up here, for years at a stretch.”
He shifted his gaze Back to the man in the chair
opposite and hesitated a moment as though diffident
of approaching the subject. “What about our partner-
ship, Bill? Will we keep it going in New South
Wales?” '
Bill shook his head slowly. “1 don’t want to
break the partnership, Mac, and if you need the cash
you can have it, but I’m sticking to Queensland. I
don’t like New South —there’s something about it,
and about the people. You can tell the difference as
soon as you cross the border. Remember that man-
ager, the time we delivered that big mob of sheep
down there —your old man and Dinny and ourselves?”
He mimicked: “Are you the drovah?”
“That was nearly twenty years ago. He’s been
gone a long time.”
“There’s plenty more like him. Maybe it’s because
they’re mostly sheepmen. No, it can’t be that, for
they’re different to the sheepmen in Queensland. And
look at the horses down there! ” His head moved
dejectedly from side to side. “You can tell a man
by his horses! I suppose they’d reckon I’m a flash
coot —that my horses are only fit to put in a show
and no good for work!”
“But there’s something else, Mac,” he went on.
“I don’t know what it is about some of the people
down there —not all of them, I’ll admit. A sort of
meanness, a snobbishness. They look down their
noses at you as if you had no right to be alive. They
count every blade of grass in their damned little pad-
docks and threaten to play hell if a man puts his
horses in for a night.”
“You’re talking about the cockies now —the small
man struggling to make a living on a thousand acres.
He has to stock the place up to the hilt, and if a
traveller comes along and sticks thirty horses in his
paddock you can’t blame him for feeling sore!”
“Well, maybe, but if it’s a crime for a man to
own thirty horses in New South Wales, I’m stopping
in Queensland.”
“But are you going to keep on droving all your
life? Why don’t you buy a place here and settle
down?”
“I know —get a wife and be respectable. Thanks,
Mac,” he added dryly. “I nearly took your advice
once. And, anyhow, I’m starting off next week with
a mob of bullocks for your New South blasted Wales
—if the mob isn’t sold before we get there.”
Chapter XXL
A COOL breeze swept down the wide, empty street
pushing a swirling cloud of dust and papers in
front of it and leaving little eddies in every lane
and vacant allotment in its wake. Although it was
early spring the raw breath of winter still predomi-
nated in the morning air. In an hour or so the heat
of the sun might- bring the butcher’s dog out to his
favorite camping-ground in the middle of the foot-
path, and the housewives of the little country town,
with long coats shrouding their deshabille, would
hurry from the baker’s to the butcher’s and on to
Williams’ Cash Store at the bottom of the town or
to the more pretentious establishment of Horton and
Young at the other end.
At the moment, however, it would have been
possible to carry out machine-gun practice the
length of the main street without endangering a single
life, and even if the battered, hoodless tourer parked
outside the garage had been riddled the loss would
not have mattered.


The man slumped on the bench in a sheltered
corner of the pub verandah, gazed moodily across
the street at the war memorial—a German machine-
gun mounted on a rough block of concrete set in a
patch of rank, dusty grass. From his seat it was just
possible to decipher from the signboard a little further
along that the dilapidated weatherboard building with
the crooked verandah was the headquarters of a buyer
of wool and skins. The bank next door stood back
from the street, but at this early hour its-gauze-
screened windows looked bleakly on the scene of
inactivity, and even the office of the local builder,
who signified his further profession of undertaker by
exhibiting an artificial wreath under a glass dome in
his one fly-specked window, looked as though depres-
sion had forced- the builder, through lack of trade, to
inter himself underneath it. ;
Bill was just debating whether to enter the empty
bar and have another drink- when a telephone bell
woke the funereal silence of the pub. In the doorway
he almost collided with the publican. •
“Your call coming through, Mr. Muir.”
He propped himself against the wall, opposite a
colored print of last year’s Melbourne Cup winner,
and hullo’d into the instrument till a distant voice
murmured wearily:
“Here y’are!” Then a clear voice, “Hullo, who’s
speaking? Oh, it’s you, Bill; how are you? No, it’s
Bessie here —Bessie Mac Andrew. You got Bob’s
letter? Yes, he got home just before dad died, and
he’s been terribly busy since.
“Isn’t it awful, the fall in the wool market? I
don’t know what well do this year, and sheep aren’t
worth selling. What were you saying? Oh, about
Bob? He wants you to come down and look at the
property he has in mind . . . Leave it to him? But he
wants you specially! . . . Where is he? Oh, I forgot
to tell you, he’s down with scarlet fever . . . What’s
that? Oh, no, it would be no good coming here. I’m
nursing him, and we’ll be isolated for nearly a month
yet.. . But they want you to stay at Camelot .. . the
homestead’s only two miles from us. Oh —won’t you?
Wait a minute till I see Bob!”
Bill relaxed with an expression of utter chagrin.
Bessie’s tidings were in keeping with the bleak depres-
sion of the outside street. Mac’s letter reached him
just before the end of the trip, and after delivering
the bullocks he had ridden on alone. Mac wanted
his financial help in buying Camelot, but for some
obscure reason he particularly wanted his presence.
The receiver crackled again, and a deep, well-
known voice came out of it. “That you, Bill? Mac
here. I know I shouldn’t, but Bessie said you weren’t
keen on coming. Look here, Bill, I want you to come!
There’s a lot of dirty work going on here. I was just
getting on to it when the fever knocked me. I suspect
the fellow who was overseer at Camelot.
We’re all working shorthanded here —
this ’flu epidemic. Come and help us
out till I can take over again. You will?
Good man. No — hold on, Exchange !
“No, it wouldn’t be safe for you to
come here, Bill . . . Camp on the creek?
Not on your life . . . they’re expect-
ing you at Camelot. The old man’s a
fine fellow—a real gentleman. Too easy-
going, though—won’t believe wrong of
anyone ; that’s been his downfall. He’s
pretty sick, but tries to carry on . .
game as they make ’em! You’re riding,
are you? Well, take the Bridle Track . . .
Yes, the way we went back. After
you cross Middle Creek, about fifteen
miles, turn down the creek half a mile
then follow the Bridle Track across the
hills. It’s rough, but it cuts off five miles.
So long, Bill!”
It was mid-afternoon when Bill
topped the last ridge and looked down
on Camelot. The narrow path meandered
down the cleared slope to join a straight,
well-defined track at a white wooden gate.
A mile away, on the banks of a small creek fringed with
oaks and an occasional gum, stood the homestead, its
red-painted roof nestling among the green foliage of
orchard and garden with a dark barrier of tall pines
beyond. Behind the garden stood the station build-
ings and yards, and a windmill turned industriously.
From its elevated position on the last gradual slope
of the foothills the homestead looked out across a
wide tract of undulating country, judiciously ring-
barked and cleared till it resembled rolling park land,
extending toward the haze of the western plains.
He stopped to water his horses at the creek, then
rode on to the homestead with the packhorse follow-
ing behind, stopping to nibble at an occasional tuft
of grass, then trotting along to make up the leeway.
Bill turned off between the homestead and the out-
buildings, skirting the tall, silver grey saltbush hedge
that surrounded the garden. Half a dozen dogs broke
into a frenzy of barking, then a man’s head emerged
cautiously from a doorway and watched the horse-
man approach; his slow gaze shifted wonderingly
from the rider to the clean-limbed, upstanding pack-
horse following of its own volition.
He accepted the horseman’s “Good day!” with-
out altering his expression, merely keeping his eyes
on the stranger in invitation of a further disclosure of
his business.
“This Camelot?”
“It is.”
“Where’ll I find the boss?”
A thumb indicated the homestead. “He might
be on the verandah.”
Bill eyed the reluctant donor of information dis-
passionately, then rode back to the main entrance gate
and dismounted. A broad carriage drive swept past
the front of the house, and between the gate and the
wide stone steps his eye noted the evidence of neglect
here and there. Only the strip of garden bordering
the verandah showed signs of recent care—the rest
had been allowed to run wild.
As he hesitated on the edge of the verandah a
pleasant voice called “Come in! Would you mind
coming round here, please?”
Bill walked to the corner of the verandah, his
spurs clinking musically at each step, then the cul-
tured voice hailed him again.
“Are you Mr. Muir?- We’ve been expecting
you.”
The visitor saw an elderly man with a clipped
grey moustache, his head bald except for a fringe
of grey hair , round the sides. He wore a dressing-
gown and sat, propped up by pillows, a rug covering
his knees, in a long chair. His skin had a strange
yellowish' pallor, and the hand he stretched toward
the visitor was thin and shrunken, but the genial
warmth of his welcoming smile emphasised the sin-
cerity of his speech.
Bill released the thin hand.
“I must; apologise for; butting in on you, but
Mac insisted, and I qouldn’t go on there.”
“We’re very pleased to have you, and I hope
you’ll make yourself; at.home. I really must apologise
for having no one here to meet you, but we are rather
short-staffed at the moment, and we find it impossible
to get further help with this ’flu epidemic.”
“I’ll be all right, thanks! ”
Bill glanced toward the gate and hesitated.
The elder man read his gesture. “You’d like to
look after your horses? You’ll find the gate to the
horse-paddock just behind the yard. Did you see
anything of Tom?”
“The old fellow?”
“Yes. , He’ll show you the paddock and the
saddle-room.” He leaned sideways on one elbow
and peered in the direction of the gate, then he
dropped weakly back into the chair and looked up
with a faint, apologetic smile. “Excuse me, but I
was trying to get a look at your horses. You see,
I’ve heard all about them. Bob has told us so much
about you and your horses that I can’t look on you
as a stranger.”
Bill’s constraint ebbed before a wave of sym-
pathy. His early instinctive liking for the invalid
warmed at the discovery of a common bond.
The old man leaned forward in his chair.
“Would you like me to bring them inside alter
I pull the saddles off ?”
The clear-cut features lighted eagerly. “Will you?
I’d appreciate it very much. I can’t get about to see
things for myself nowadays, and I must confess to
a weakness for horses.”
Bill nodded silently and turned away with a lump
in his throat.
The invalid leaned forward against the chair-
arm, his eyes concentrated on the two horses striding
smoothly at Bill’s shoulder. The deep-girthed, broad-
chested bay with the wide forehead and clear intelli-
gent eye, clean-boned and hard-muscled, a perfect
model of speed and stamina. The other bay horse
was richer in color, with a running star on its fore-
head and white hind feet. There was breeding in
every line —in the tired but still spirited carriage of
the shapely head, in the full, undaunted eye and the
rich satiny coat with the veins standing out through
the dust and dried sweat of travel.
Bill dropped the reins, and they stood calm and
fearless in the broad drive in front of the verandah.
The old man leaned forward in the chair to his full
extent, his eyes burning with a strange, happy light,
his thin fingers itching with the desire to run their
sensitive tips up the neck, across the sloping shoulder,
then down the forearm and the flat cannon-bones to
the clean, round fetlock.
“They’re not looking their best.” Bill was mildly
apologetic. “They’re fired and leg-weary after four
months on the road with cattle. Coronet, the bay
nearest you, is a picture when he's in condition.
The old man lifted a protesting hand. “I m
seeing them at their best. Fat may cover a lot of
faults on a horse. Hard work brings out the blem-
ishes.” He sank wearily back into the pillows, his
eyes still feasting on the animals, and shook his head
sadly. “I thought I was quite resigned to . . . things,
but you make me long for my youth again.”
When Bill picked up the trailing reins and started
off to the paddock, the old eyes followed the depart-
ing horses out of sight, delighting in the clean, easy
action and reflecting warmly on the confidence exist-
ing between the horses and the man. Gradually the
exhaustion succeeding the unwonted expenditure of
energy flowed over him. A happy, contented smile
lingered on the wasted features for a little while, then
slowly faded as the insidious, stabbing pain deep down
inside reawoke and racked him onoe again.
Chapter XXII. j
CORONET got to his feet with a vigorous grunt
of contentment, shook the dust off in a thick cloud
and followed his Thate' up the paddock with a
long-drawn snort at the prospect of. unhobbled free-
dom. Bill leaned on the gate watching them with a
fellow-feeling —sharing their pleasure. When seasons
were bad it worried him more to know that, his horses
were short-hobbled on poor feed than to go hungry
himself. His perfect contentment demanded as a
foundation the knowledge that his horses were com-
fortable. Then he could go ahead and enjoy himself.
He was putting his saddlery in the dim harness-
room when a clamor of barking heralded the approach
ol someone. The uproar died away to an occasional
yelp of pleasure, so he concluded that the latest
arrival belonged to Camelot, and went on with the
job of hanging the packbags out of reach of the rats.
A black kelpie pup bounced into the doorway and
greeted the intruder with a woof of challenge. Bill
glanced down at it with an encouraging “Hullo, pup! ”
and it immediately switched on the broad, disarming
smile that belongs solely to puppyhood, and wagged
its tail and its entire spine with it, to show how
pleased it was to meet him and to beg to be excused
for its stupidity in not recognising him at once.
A businesslike beat of hoofs approached the
saddle-room, and Bill slung his stockwhip over one
shoulder and emerged into the glare of the sunlight,
ignoring the fawning puppy. His first glance took
in the horse —a quick, general impression of the well-
bred mare, then a keen glance at the legs, at the
shoulder —a trifle straight, in his opinion—and at the
head. Then he glanced casually at the rider, a girl
in riding-breeches, tan boots and a fawn coat, and
his casualness vanished in a flash. He stood rooted
to the spot, staring incredulously at her.
“Hullo, Lancelot! So it really is you!”
“Elaine!”
His lips framed the word reluctantly, as though
afraid to believe and find himself mistaken. He
could only stand and stare at the laughing, animated
face with the dark auburn hair curling softly from
under her hat.
The girl dismounted and approached with out-
stretched hand. “I’m not a ghost! Aren’t you going
to shake hands?”
He gripped not only one but both her hands, and
their firm, warm contact loosened the spell on his
tongue. “Elaine! What are you doing here?”
She smiled serenely back. “I live here!”
“But what is your name —your real name?” he
demanded.
“Elaine! It really is! Elaine Atherton.”
“Atherton!” he echoed. “Not Barlow? Aren't
vou Mrs. Barlow?”
(Continued on page 50.)


FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it,
FROM "THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, '*/ ® FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week's issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newssgents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
'Phone; BWI2IS
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD,
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall. General Manager.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Another Scheme Gangs Agley:—
NOT ACCORDING
TO
PLAN
BY Emalia
OULD y’ do a taste?” said the
I stranger, moving his head slightly
in the direction of the Foresters’
Arms.
Nebo Nick hesitated no longer than
the absolute minimum of decency re-
quired.
“Don’t mind if I do,” he admitted.
“If there’s one thing that I can’t stand it’s
drinkin’ with the flies.”
He spoke truly—for once. Solitary
drinking involved paying for one’s own
refreshment, and to that Nebo had deep-
rooted and peculiar objections.
As they breasted the counter Ginger
Jordan rose up from the corner where
he sat, like a copper-headed snake coiled
in the grass, and glided towards them,
with the glad hand of welcome extended
and a perfect imitation of a genuine
smile on his freckled, sharp face.
“Well, well, well!” he murmured, in-
credulously it seemed. “ ’Scuse me for
butting in like this, but ain’t you Nick
Nebo? ‘Old Nick,’ as the boys used to
call you, down at Salonga.”
Nebo Nick withheld his own hand for
a moment, as if astonishment had de-
prived him of the power of movement,
while he stared at the man from whom
he had parted fully half an hour ago.
“Why, it can’t be! Yes, it is! It’s
Bluey Jordan! Strike a light, you’ve
"Cut out the Sunday-school stuff.”
grown quite a man! Fancy meetin’ you
again! How’s the game? Say, I’m fer-
gittin’ meself! Meet a friend of mine,
Mr. —er”
“Green,” supplemented the hospit-
able stranger, “Dave Green. .We was
just goin’ to have a drink. Would you
care to join us?”
Ginger cared.
Over their pots the iniquities of those
despicable creatures known as Jimmy
Woodsers again came up for discussion.
Dave Green had no wish to be thought
of as belonging to the class.
“D’you blokes know ol’ Bill Baty—
Batty Bill, as they call him?” he in-
quired. “I reckon he’s the real, original
Jimmy.”
The reunited friends confessed their
ignorance.
“I’m a stranger here meself,” said
Nebo ; “just lobbed in this yere town.
Been up north for the last three months,
woolclassin’.” (“Fleecing” would have
been a more accurate description of his
activities, but “woolclassing” sounded
better.) , '
“An’ I’m a barber from the city,” said
Ginger, not to be outdone in veracity,
but without explaining that “hotel-bar-
bering” was his special line.
Dave Green felt that he was a suc-
cessful host: his two companions hung
upon his words, anticipatory smiles gar-
nishing their jaws. They laughed loud
and long at his jests. He signalled again
to the barman while he told of Bill
Baty, a local identity who lived like a
recluse in a little humpy back among
the hills and never, never “shouted
back.”
Nebo Nick oozed beer and indigna-
tion, aghast that such things should be.
Flourishing a somewhat soiled handker-
chief, he wiped his scalp where the swiftly
receding tide of hair had been replaced
by little globules of moisture.
“I don’t reckon a feller like that
should be allowed to live,” he declared.
‘‘Here’s me, an orphan boy, picked up
in the gutter, so to speak, no home
trainin’, don’t know if I ever had a
father. I couldn’t do a thing like that!
“I don’t owe society nothin’. I’ve had
to battle for meself all me life, but I’ll
alius take me share with me mates,
won’t I, Blue?”
“My oath!” said Ginger, his shifty
eyes wandering hopefully to the barman.
“And ’cos why? ’Cos I reckons all
men is brothers.”
“ ’Ear, ’ear! ” said Ginger, pushing his
empty pot an inch further on to the bar
counter.
“Batty Bill don’t think so,” chuckled
Dave. “They say if y’ take a bottle to
’is place he’ll ask y’ in an’ help y’
drink it, but if ’e met y’ in town nex’
day ’e’d have forgotten all about it.”
.“Mangy ol’ cow!” said Ginger with
conviction.
“Yair. And it ain’t as if he couldn’t
afford it.”
“Ah?” said Nebo and Ginger together.
“Got a wad, ’as ’e?”
“Well, so they all reckon,” said Dave
broadly. “Sorta stands to reason, doesn’t
it? Never goes near the bank, lives
away all by ’imself, never goes on a
bender. ’E must ’ave a tidy little bit
tucked away somewhere.”
“Mm-m,” said Nebo thoughtfully,
glancing at Ginger, “Lives near ’ere,
does ’e?”
D Y four o’clock Dave Green had been
sucked dry of money and informa-
tion, and left to sleep off the effects of
his entertaining in an out-of-the-way
corner. Ginger was for leaving him a
shilling for the headache that would
come after, but Nebo frowned upon such
philanthropy as downright waste.
“It’s not our headache,” he pointed
out; “why should we worry? You’ve
gotter be practical, my boy, if you wanter
get on. I’ve got no time f’r sentiment.
That deener’ll buy us a bottle o’ pinkie
for when we calls on this old Bill Baty
to loosen up ’is wad.”
Nebo had already decided upon and
sketched out a plan of campaign—a plan
worthy of its author, simple and straight-
forward.
Bill Baty lived his hermit-like exis-
tence in a lonely spot some three miles
back in the forest-clad hills. The long
walk thither was the only fly in the
ointment —that and the cruel necessity
of carrying two bottles of “stuff” which
would serve both as an introduction and
an excuse for calling. About sunset —
tea-time in the bush —would be the appro-
priate moment for arrival, and after the
bottles had been emptied a quarrel would
arise automatically. With such a scheme
there was so little that could go wrong
that success seemed assured.
Save for a half-mile lift on a passing
truck the partners trudged the whole
weary way, and more, for,
missing the turn-off, they
had to retrace their steps a
considerable distance, be-
neath a sun that retained its
strength right to the hori-
zon. However, just as the
laughing - jackasses were
clattering out their discord-
ant evensong, they espied
Bill Baty’s one - roomed
shack snuggled beneath the
trees from whence came the
cacophonous chorus.
“That’s our meat,” said
Nebo, indicating an aged
but remarkably virile-looking man,
wielding a mattock with skill and
vigor, his white, patriarchal whiskers
covering his brawny chest. “My eye!
ain’t he the real ol’ Daddy Christmas?
Even them birds are laughin’ at ’im.”
“Gripes, yes!” agreed Ginger, “Only
wants a red coat on to be a dinkum Santa
Claus. Reminds me of a Christmas treat
the parson got up once when I was a
kid. There was an old guy jus’ like that,
put ’is ’and on me ’ead”
Nebo eyed his companion suspiciously.
“Cut out the Sunday-school stuff!”
he advised. “Y’ ain’t goin’ to get soppy
about the ol’ cow, are y’? You’re lookin’
a bit yaller.”
“Yaller be damned!” said the indig-
nant Ginger. “You ain’t the only tough
guy in this partnership. Daddy Christmas
don’t mean nothin’ to me. He’s the
same as the devil —just another name f’r
y’r old man dressed up.”
“I don’t believe in any of ’em,” said
Nebo. “As I told you before I was
brung up in a orphanage, where you
learn to be practical. Sentiment only in-
terferes with business: it’s no good.”
“I’ve got no time f’r sob-stuff, neither,”
asserted Ginger. “My ol’ man never
give me anything for Christmas but once,
“That’s what I told the
coroner.”
when ’e give me a two-bob bit, bem so
blind drunk ’e thought it was a penny.
When ’e found out afterwards ’e nearly
skinned me f’r spendin’ it.”
They pushed on towards the benevo-
lent-looking old hermit, keeping the lug-
gage well in evidence as they hailed him.
He said he was “just thinkin’ of knocking
off,” and invited them in to tea. Bill
Baty’s eyes—very bright, hard blue, with
small, dark pupils —recalled uncomfort-
ably to Ginger’s mind their host’s sobri-
quet of “Batty Bill,” but then most
men who live a very solitary life either
begin or end by being “a bit queer,’
particularly if they never “shout back.”
AT the doorway Bill stood aside to let
his guests enter. Perhaps he, too,
recollected that a blow from a bottle of
beer could lay a man out, thought
Ginger guiltily.
Nebo stepped boldly across the thres-
hold, but Ginger, being second, sidled
cautiously in, keeping one eye on the
mattock which still rested on Bill Baty’s
shoulder. There was a sinister rustling
underneath Bill’s bunk, a scurrying rush
and Nebo leaped back, colliding heavily
with Ginger, as something lithe and lean
dashed across the floor, up the timbered
wall, and vanished under the eaves,
except for about nine inches of tapering,
scaly tail.
“Wassat?” gasped both the visitors in
alarm.
“’Sorlright,” Bill reassured them ; “it’s
only Peter the Painter. He’s a bit ner-
vous of strangers.”
Pushing past them he set down his
mattock, lit the lantern hanging on a
nail and stirred the smoul-
dering fire to a blaze. An-
other burst of ribald jackass
laughter came from without.
Ginger tried to think of
something to say, but all
that came to his mind was
two lines from “How
Gilbert Died”:
But they went to death when
they entered there.
In the hut at the Stockman’s
Ford....
“An’ who’s Peter the
Painter? A pet snake?”
queried Nebo, peering
underneath the bunk before perching
cautiously on its edge.
“No, goanna.”
Bill busied himself with the frying-
pan for a minute or two before con-
tinuing conversationally:
“There’s two kinds of them things;
one’s black,” here he looked straight at
Nebo, then turning towards Ginger he
concluded, “and the other’s yaller. Peter’s
black.”
“Ah.”
“Yair. But that ain’t the only differ-
ence. One of ’era’s ’armless and the
other’s more poisonous than a snake.”
“Oh! And which is the ’armless
variety?”
“I can’t jus’ remember. Y’ see, Peter
ain’t bit anybody—yet.”
“What about a drink?” suggested
Nebo, carefully unwrapping the luggage.
Nobody objecting, they had three
rounds, by which time Bill declared
supper was ready. He served the mys-
terious delicacies he had been frying into
two battered enamel plates and a tin dish.
The cutlery consisted of bent-pronged
forks, two dinner knives and a razor.
Bill had the razor.
The guests dissected their portions with
difficulty, pondering over the nature of


VISIT JAVA
\VV-- - V
If
The Garden of the East awaits
you—ancient temples—beauti-
ful scenery native customs
colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call on this smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks, rest-
ful lounges, a tiled swimming
pool, talking-picture equipment
—each day is pleasure filled.
A regular monthly service is
maintained by the T.S.S.
"MARELLA" and M.V. "MER-
KUR" from Melbourne, Sydney
and Brisbane.
Bums.PKllp
i. CO. LTD. |
7 Bridge St., Sydney
Telephone - 87901
At your request
we shall he pleased
to forward folder
flu. til.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
iHh FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
a
i
m
i %
\
df 4%,-%
wmwi non 17 1 I/
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
In the solution of the many and diverse problems
of Credit and Finance, The National Bank has had
many years of successful experience. The knowledge
gained from this and the advantages of a world-wide
organisation are always at the disposal of anyone
desiring this form of assistance.
BANK
Branches Throughout Australia
16/12/36
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
the meal. It looked something like fish,
but tasted like the broiled sole of a
rubber sandshoe. Curiosity got the
better of Nebo.
“What kind o’ fish d’you call this?”
he asked.
Bill chuckled.
“Tain’t fish.”
“Oh! it’s meat, is it?”
“No, ’tain’t meat, neither.”
“Then what the devil”
“Black snake! ” said Bill, with the pride
of the professional chef. “Killed it out
in the scrub yesterday. What’s the
matter with y’r mate? He ain’t eatin’.”
“Teeth not too good,” mumbled
Ginger.
“That’s bad,” said Bill; “I’ll cook you
a negg.”
“W-what kinda egg?” asked Ginger,
fearing lest the black snake had died in
defence of its nest.
Bill didn’t answer, but busied himself
about the fire. Nebo seized the oppor-
tunity to empty his plate between his
outstretched knees. Outside the trees
rustled their leaves like people whispering
behind their hands, and two green limbs
The egg was neatly decapitated.
rubbed together with a strange groaning
sound, as if in pain.
“They’re not very big,” Bill apologised,
retrieving three small oval objects from
the blackened jam-tin in which they had
been boiling.
He slipped one into an enamel egg-
cup, where it snuggled coyly down, with
a bare half-inch of shell protruding above
the rim. Ginger watched him in a dumb,
stricken silence, feeling that his worst
fears were about to be realised.
“Now, jest a minute an’ I’ll take the
top off for y’,” said Bill.
He lifted a long-handled axe from its
place in the corner, ran his thumb gin-
gerly along the razor-keen edge, and
took up an axeman’s stance.
“Better stand back a bit in case I
miss,” he suggested ; “me eyesight's not
as good as it useter be.”
HE swung the axe once, with a sharp
hissed “Hwit!” between his teeth, and
the barely visible egg was decapitated as
neatly as if guillotined.
“ ’Strewth! ” murmured the two
watchers in one breath.
Bill calmly replaced the axe in the
corner and reseated himself between it
and his guests.
“By cripes. I’m dry!” said Ginger.
Nebo filled the mugs. Bill appeared
to be having trouble with his section of
the piece de resistance.
“Blasted razor’s not too sharp,” he
grumbled.
“I s’pose y’ don’t use it too often,”
Nebo hinted.
“Not f’r shavin’,” admitted the be-
whiskered hermit, “I ain’t never shaved
—not shaved meself, I mean —since me
brother cut his throat one night after we’d
’ad a bit of a argument.”
“I shouldn’t think so,” said Nebo,
glancing from Bill’s flowing beard to the
unusual table cutlery.
“Tom useter live ’ere with me,” con-
tinued Bill reminiscently. “Great pals we
was. Always shared everything. Then
one night ’e talked about goin’ away. 1
told ’im it couldn’t be done —breakin’
up the home like that. It would ’ave
meant buyin’ a whole lot of new things
for one of us. Y’ see, f’r instance, we
only had this one razor.”
He took down a long steel from the
stubby mantelshelf and proceeded to
draw the razor-blade up and down its
length, talking, as if to himself, in a low
monologue the while.
“Yes, cut ’is blanky throat from ear
to ear. That’s what I told the coroner.
That’s ’is grave y’ might’ve noticed down
towards the crick. Buried ’im meself, I
did. It’s a nice, soft bit of diggin’ down
there. I rather like diggin’.”
His eyes were fastened —speculatively,
it seemed to Ginger—on the latter’s
windpipe. Like a cat watching a bird he
seemed to be teetering on his toes ; the
blade moved on the steel with a crisper
sound, a swifter motion, just as witch-
doctors’ drums, beginning soft and low,
rise with an evil, quickening throb, stir-
ring their listeners to the wildest frenzy.
The pupils of his eyes, already small, had
contracted to pinpoints of fire. He did
not blink. , u
“Have a drink, mate,” urged Nebo
quickly. .
Bill hesitated. His tense attitude re-
laxed.
“Good-oh!” he said, laying down the
steel to fake up his mug.
“It’s a bit close inside,” said Ginger
thickly. “Guess I’ll get a breath of
air.”
He hitched his kerosene-case seat
nearer to the door, his shifty eyes travel-
ling longingly from his comrade to the
blackness without, whereupon the soft,
white form of an owl floated noiselessly
past.
Bill glanced at Nebo and, noticing the
emptiness of his plate, said:
“Have a bit more, mate.”
“N-no, thanks,” said Nebo. “I’ve had
plenty.” .
“It wants eatin’ up,” persisted Bill; “it
mightn’t keep until to-morrow. Come on,
have some.”
Something in his host’s manner made
acceptance seem tactful.
“Oh, all right!” said Nebo feebly.
Bill finished his own portion and fell
to brooding, stropping the reconditioned
razor on his horny palm.
“I’m glad youse blokes called,” he
said presently. “Sometimes 1 get sorta
depressed after dark, jes’ siltin’ here
thinkin’.”
Something rustled under the roof and,
looking up, the visitors saw Peter the
Painter extended along an overhead
beam, regarding them with dark, beady
eyes. His little claws clung to the timber,
for one false step would precipitate him
on to the dining-table beneath, but his
triangular mouth appeared to smile in the
enjoyment of some purely private joke.
“Have another drink, it’ll cheer y’ up,”
said Nebo.
“It might!” agreed Bill, pushing his
mug across the table.
His manner was not hopeful, but
nevertheless the potion acted. Almost
while it coursed down his well-protected
throat his outlook became more cheerful.
“Of course it ain’t really lonely here,”
he said. “Not like some places I’ve been in.
Not like gaol, f’r instance —solitary con-
finement, Y’ see. I’ve always got Tom.”
“Yes, yes,” agreed Nebo, a trifle uncer-
tainly.
“I have!” shouted Bill, as if he had
been contradicted.
His long whiskers seemed to bristle,
like the hackles on a dog’s back, as he
crouched lower, glaring across the table,
his left hand clutching the razor,, his
right feeling behind him for the axe.
“I dug 'im up larit week and ’ad a look."
Unostentatiously, almost furtively in
fact, Ginger slipped through the open
doorway. Half-way to the creek a yell
of terror coming from the rear halted
him, willy-nilly* in his tracks. He glanced
Waited not to see more.
back in time to
see something
resembling a
human form
shoot out of
the hut with
the speed of a
projectile. Al-
most simultan-
eously a wild,
bearded figure,
with axe up-
raised, was sil-
ho netted if
the doorway
against the
light within.
He waited not to see more.
REUNITED at last after hours spent
in wandering through the bush, alter-
nately fleeing from each other in the
dark, the two partners faced the last
half-mile of the seemingly endless jour-
ney to the station.
“You come away early, did y’,
Ginge?” queried Nebo, but without ani-
mosity.
“I was just hangin’ round outside in
the cool. What happened?”
“A handful of notes came flutterin'
down all over the table. That blanky
lizard must’ve knocked ’em dowm out
of the roof somewhere.”
Something rustled in the bushes and
the wanderers quickened their flagging
footsteps.
“I wouldn’t ’ve touched ’em,” said
Ginger piously. “Somehow the very way
"e looked at me made me feel ’omesick.
’E’s just the picture of my old man, with
one ’and behind ’is back, sayin’, ‘Come
’ere, you young devil, an’ see what
father’s brought yV But then, of course,
you don’t believe in sentiment, do y’?”
“ ’Oo said I don’t?” cried the justly
incensed Nebo. “Don’t you start slingin’
off at me, Ginge, just ’cos I had the mis-
fortun’ to be a poor orphan boy. I’d
never ’ave the ’eart to rob a bloke wot
looks the livin’ image of dear old Daddy
Christmas.”


'* !
IS
I
BLEEDING GUMS
may cause
them
Make sure you use the specia I film removing
tooth paste which removes film effectively
and safely.
TOOTH DECAY
Common sense says that dangerous film should be
removed and kept away regularly. But how? Many
dentifrices may claim to remove film. But are they
safe? To millions of people, Pepsodent is known as
the special film-removing tooth paste.
The simple reason for Pepsodent’s efficiency is the
use of a revolutionary new cleansing and polishing
agent. This material is unexcelled in film-removing
power. No other leading dentifrice contains it and
it is so safe that in impartial tests Pepsodent has been
proved the least abrasive . . . therefore softest— of
16 leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders.
So, if you really want naturally white teeth and
greater freedom from common mouth disorders, take
the first step now. Start removing ugly, dangerous
film daily with Pepsodent Tooth Paste.
Along with daily brushing, eat foods your dentist
would advise to promote strong, healthy teeth. And
be sure to see your dentist regularly twice a year.
MORE PEPSODENT—SAME PRICE
New processes have cut costs, and we are passing the
saving on to you. The identical time-proved Pepsodent
is ready for yon. in the new larger tubes, at no increase in
price.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
STUBBORN STAINS
m.
BLEEDING GUMS
w
rtf?
m
NEW
TU
OLD
TUBE
- - • KS
IN NEW LARGER TUBES —NO PRICE INCREASE
“Let’s Talk of Graves”. ...
BURYING BRIAN
O'TOOLE
BY FREEMAN SANDOM.
Gravedigging is a hard and
thankless job.
I’ve been in the line for close on
forty years, and have come across as
many tough jobs as the next man. But
my first grave was the worst of the lot,
and nearly turned me off the game.
Dead Cat Creek was a small wol-
fram camp north of Cooktown. It had
two slab-and-bark pubs, one store and
one policeman. Murk Williamson, the
storekeeper, was also the undertaker.
The morning after O’Toole, bailiff and
gravedigger, died (of typhoid fever) Murk
came to me.
“I’ve got a job for you, Overland,” he
said, rubbing his hands. Then he in-
structed me to get a mate and dig a
grave for poor old O’Toole.
“I’ll take old Jack Moynahan,” I said,
and Murk said that would do him.
It was a blazing hot day, and Jack and
I shed rivers of sweat as we trundled the
quarter of a mile to the cemetery, with
picks and long-handled shovels on our
shoulders. Fortunately, Turtle Heinrich’s
pub was only a couple of hundred yards
from the gate.
“Ach so!” said Turtle as he set ’em
up. “You haf der yob got, hey? Unt
ven ist der funeral to gome?”
“Two o’clock,” I told him.
“Blendy of dime,” said Turtle. “Ven
you finish you haf a pit of dinner mit
me, hey?”
This we promised to do. We had an-
other round, the three of us, then Turtle
set up one on the house, and we had
that. After that we reckoned we’d better
make a start.
By cripes, it looked as if we were going
to earn our money that sweltering day!
The cemetery was giving out heat like
an oven, and there wasn’t an inch of
shade except on the west side, where a
big bloodwood was overhanging the
fence.
Murk hadn’t said anything about loca-
tion. The cemetery was a new one, and
there was plenty of room. One place
was as good as another, we thought. We
pegged out the claim for O’Toole in the
shade of the bloodwood.
Jack had allowed that we might strike
a root from the tree by digging just there.
I reckoned that, the day being what it
was, that might be a blessing in disguise ;
we would have to borrow an axe from
Turtle. After a while Jack saw it in that
light, too.
The ground was a hard, gravelly wash,
and when we’d got a couple of feet
down and struck the root, thick as your
arm, we weren’t sorry. We couldn’t
have gone without a drink much longer
anyway, but it felt better having the axe
as an excuse.
After a round each, with Turtle in-
cluded, we didn’t seem to feel the heat
as much as before. Just the same, that
root was hard as iron, and by the time
it was chopped through we were glad
the axe had to be returned.
At the end of the second round we
sang ‘"The Dying Stockrider” through to
the end, and at the third Turtle obliged
with a song in his own lingo. It was
a jolly, rousing bit, all about a feller
called “Leeber Augustine,” and sounded
like the popping of corks and the rasp
of crosscuts at times. At other times it
was more like a feller gargling.
We felt like two-year-olds going back.
Personally, I was wishing that good old
Murk would turn up and give us another
dozen graves to dig.
The trouble was that the feeling didn’t
last long enough. At the three-foot level
we tried to think of an excuse for return-
ing, but as we couldn’t find one we re-
turned anyway.
At the four-foot level we wouldn’t have
bothered about the best excuse in the
world. We took an extra round then
as a sort of appetiser for the snack of
dinner which Turtle had got ready.
“You’ll haf to schnap into id, poys,”
said Turtle when we had eaten. “Mit
der digging, I mean ; id’s afder dwelve,
see! ”
Nothing suited us better than to snap
into anything just then, though we would
have preferred a good, snappy fight, say
with a tribe or two of blackfellers all
loaded up with spears and boomerangs.
Failing this, we bucked into the digging
with a will.
Still, in spite of our willingness, we
were getting a bit fagged again at the
five-foot level, and I, for one, was almost
glad when we struck the big boulder.
li/E returned, quenched our thirst and
*» borrowed an iron bar. With this we
probed the bottom of the excavation, and
discovered that the boulder wasn’t a
boulder at all: it was the top of a moun-
tain or perhaps the bottom of that big
peak of the Swiss Alps. It extended over
two-thirds of the ground floor of the
grave. There was no way of getting past
it. The only thing to do was to dig
practically a new grave.
I looked at my watch. The funeral
was due to come in one hour and ten
minutes!
There is a time and a jfface for every-
thing. We looked at each other. The
same thought must have occurred to both
of us at the same time. We dropped our
tools and made a beeline for the pub.
We wanted to think.
It was clear that Turtle had been
drinking steadily since we left. He was
a good three sheets in the wind. Never-
theless, it was Turtle who showed us the
way out.
“Loog here, mine pully poys,” he hic-
cupped, “for vy you don’t blow der
schtone himmelhigh? Dere’s half a gase
off yelly unt a fuse in my bagyards
vot dat Schmid brospector behind him
left ven he dies. Dake it unt blow der
schtone to schmiddereens.”
Jack Moynahan was an experienced
powder-monkey, and, upon examination,
he found the gelignite to be all right,
but the fuse had a joint in the middle.
“It’s a bit short to cut,” he said as
he slipped plug after plug into the hole
which we had barred well under the
stone, “but I reckon she’ll burn through
the joint all right, all right.”
He pushed a cap on the end of the
fuse, squeezed it tight with his teeth,
stuck it half-way into a plug which he
dropped into the hole, following it with
a few double handfuls of fine soil which
he tamped carefully firm. I brought the
flame of a match to the frayed end of
the fuse, and as soon as it began to
splutter we ran.
Under the lean-to of the pub we waited
for a few minutes to recover our breath.
But no explosion came.
“I reckon the joint is holding her up,”
said Jack. “What about a drink while
we’re waiting?”
I was agreeable.
Inside the flies were buzzing drunkenly
about, but Turtle was missing.
“Hey!” I shouted.
No reply. I peeped into the only other
room of the pub. No Turtle. Just as
we were beginning to think that he had
got d.t. and drowned himself in the
creek, I heard a slight noise from behind
the contraption of planks, hessian and
empty beer-barrels which served for
counter, and, looking over it, saw Turtle.
He was lolling in a sack-and-saplmg
chair, his eyes shut, his open mouth hair-
full of flies and an expression of absolute
bliss on his fiery, fat face as if he was
listening to the music of some heavenly
Liedertafel.
I knew the symptoms well, and, going
behind the bar, chalked a cross on the
blackboard and filled a couple of pots
with beer.
We drank, and then walked outside to
wait for the explosion.
“The funeral’s due in half an hour, ’
I said. “I hope that dynamite’ll make
up its blasted mind to go off soon.”
“I reckon it won’t be long now,” re-
plied Jack. “What about a drink while
we wait?”
Inside, we chalked another cross, drank
and listened. We could listen as well
inside as outside, as Jack remarked quite
truly.
Waiting is thirsty work. Besides, a
funeral is a sort of occasion. There were
a dozen crosses on that blackboard (but
no explosion) when I looked at my watch
at a quarter to three.
“It’s a dud,” said I ; “but just the same
we’d better go and fix it before the
funeral turns up.”
Jack had had pretty well his bellyful
(so had I, for that matter).
“Damn the funeral!” he said. “I’ve
had a fuse hang fire for five hours once
and then go off. I ain’t going near it
till to-morrow. Here’s luck, Overland!”
“Good luck, Jack!” I drank and set
my pot down. “Well, the only thing we
can do is to stop here and warn them
when they come. They’re a bit late.”
“Good for you. Overland!” shouted
Jack. “I don’t mind waiting—here.” He
filled ’em up again while I chalked.
“You and I, boy!” he said heartily,
slapping me on the back. Then the tears
came to his eyes and he muttered
brokenly: “You and I—the good old
guard.”
I pressed his hand. “We’ll hold the
fort till they are coming, old man,” 1
assured him. “But I reckon that funeral
by now is pretty well as shickered as
we are.”
And, knowing the ways of funerals in
those good old days, that was a pretty
safe guess.
All I remember after that was that
Jack with a pot in each hand stumbled
out on the verandah saying he was going
“to wait —hie—for the blanky—hie—
funeral out here,” and that I followed
him, after having chalked two more
crosses (or was it four?), also with a
brace of pots.
ABOUT a thousand years afterwards,
** as it seemed, I heard shouting, and
raucous laughing of many voices, and,
opening my eyes, found that I was in
the middle of a milling throng, all of
them with pots of beer in their hands.
Through gaps in the crowd I saw, out
in the blazing road, a horse and a dray
with a black cloth draped over some-
thing, and, beside it, the tap sticking out
over the floorboards of the vehicle, a
hogshead of beer.
Suddenly I remembered that it was
poor old Brian O’Toole who was being
planted, and that Jack Moynahan and
me had just dug the grave.
Nobody took any notice of me. I
looked at my watch. It was nearly four
o’clock. That fact accounted for the
happy condition of the funeral. They
must have stopped at Wolfram Charlie’s
for a good long stretch before they faced
the sun-scorched road. Then, with the
hogshead on board, there was always
somebody wanting a drink every few
yards or so. Progress was necessarily
slow.
Feeling dazed and stiff, I got up with
the intention of going inside to freshen
myself up with a tot of rum. I stumbled
over Jack Moynahan, who did not wake.
Turtle Heinrich was dancing round
behind the counter, fresh as a daisy and
gutturally cheerful to the rush of cus-
tomers. After a couple of neat ones 1,
too, began to feel my old chirpy self.
Suddenly there was a shout from the
road, “Come on, you fellers!” It was
taken up by fellers on the verandah, and
presently half the men in the bar were
shouting “Come on, you fellers!”
In response there were hurried drink-
ings of “last ones,” and in a quarter of
an hour the pub was empty and the
cortege in position behind the dray.
Bullocky Harry climbed up to sit with
O’Toole and the hogshead. He cast a
glance behind to see that all was well,
shouted “Gerrup, Rover!” and gave the
old stiff-legged moke a cut with a length
of lawyer cane.
The dray jerked into slow motion. The
cortege followed.
At the graveside I noted with surprise
the shallowness of the grave ; the lid of
the coffin was a bare two feet below the
surface.
No one else seemed to be aware of
this irregularity, or, if they were, they


Results
£25 GOOD HUMOR
COMPETITION
First Prize (£l5).
“RICH STEW,”
by GAVIN S. CASEY,
21 Lawler St., South Perth, W.A.
(Published 26/2/’36.)
Second Prize (£7).
“WHO KILLED MYLDE-
MANNERS?”
by REX G. RIENITS,
168 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
(Published 15/l/’36.)
Third Prize (£3).
“MAGIC AT NOOGOORA,”
by ROGER CHRISTIE,
C/o Royal Hotel, Tomingley, N.S.W.
(Published 15/4/’36.)
f
• The Hotel
Situated in the highest and most convenient posi-
tion in Sydney, this well-established Hotel gives
you every luxury and service.
We are noted for our splendid cuisine and
competent staff.
Reservations day and night ever at your service!
SYDNEY’S SOCIAL CENTRE
King’s Cross, Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 {l4 lines).
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON G RIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE
lIIIITCn insurance
U n I I C V COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
A tale of two tempers
THE HARD TEMPER
HERE—FOR AN
EXTRA SHARP EDGE
Q
\ /tS
?! -S
BUT THE SOFT TEMPER HERE—FOR THE
BLADE TO BEND WITHOUT CRACKING
Yes, that's the secret of Gillette's new
electrical process—two tempers in one blade.
That's why the new Blue Gillette blades are
sharper than ever before. That's why they stay
sharp longer. Keener shaves and more shaves
per blade is what they give you. Try a packet
to-day.
PACKET OF FIVE,
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
took no notice. Considering the general
happiness of the mourners, this tolerance
was not surprising.
In a flash the whole thing came back
to me —the unexploded gelignite, the fuse.
Was it still alive? Jack Moynahan
had known a fuse to hang fire for five
hours. I sneaked a look at my watch:
it was only a little after four.
In a sudden fright I swung round and
had started to leg it back to the pub,
when Murk Williamson brought me up
with a jerk.
“Overland,” he whispered, for Dick
Toomby had started the sermon, “where
the hell are those shovels?”
We had stuck them behind the blood-
wood, I remembered, so they’d be out
of the way when the boulder blew up.
With Murk’s eyes upon me I fetched
them. Somebody grabbed one. With
the other I took up my position at one
end of the grave.
I wanted to cut and run, but was afraid
to do so. I knew that if the funeral blew
up it would be my fault, and that some
of it would be likely to survive and,
subsequently, deal out justice to the evil-
doer in the spontaneous way peculiar to
the times.
1 peeped into the grave, where O’Toole
rested so serenely, and envied him. He
didn’t care for all the dynamite in the
world!
Then I thought of Jack Moynahan,
the expert powder-monkey, who was the
cause of this mess, with his joined fuse
which was hanging fire. He ought to be
down there with O’Toole and the gelig-
nite. Instead he was sleeping off a beauti-
ful jag, safe and comfortable under the
pub verandah.
Suddenly my heart seemed to jump
into my throat and then, as suddenly,
drop into my boots. Was that a wisp
of smoke? I rubbed my eyes and stared
hard. Now it had gone. I rubbed again,
then got my sweat-rag out, wiped my
eyes carefully to make sure there was no
blurring of my sight.
“Was O’Toole a mate of yours, Over-
land?” asked a kind, low-pitched voice.
A hand patted my shoulder. “Bear up, old
battler, we must all die sooner or later.”
1 hardly heard. I had seen the smoke
again, a thin, blue riband, wriggling from
under the box. In a twinkling it had
gone. By all the jumping devils in
hell, I thought, I must get out of here!
1 turned to run and found I was
hemmed in by a solid wall of men. For
a frantic moment I thought of yelling
out the truth. But when I reflected what
that near-drunk crowd might do to me,
I decided to keep quiet. I had seen
things done by mining-field mobs on the
spur of the moment, and for less than this.
There was still a chance that that
sabotaging join would not tire till
O'Toole was properly planted. Jack had
known a fuse to hang fire for five hours.
Six would not be an impossibility. If
they only would shake it up!
I LOOKED at Dick Toomby, the
* speaker, and my heart sank. He was
drooling away on the story of O’Toole’s
life. And I knew Dick.
Dick was an old miner, but reckoned
that if right was right he ought to be a
parson.
He had reached the point where
O’Toole, having found a rich wolfram
outcrop and, very unselfishly, spent it all
in keeping his friends drunk, took up
gravedigging as a profession.
I cursed Dick under my breath. 1
knew he had barely started. If only he
would die of sunstroke or something,
we could be away in five minutes!
Presently a flicker of hope came to
me. Murk Williamson had pulled Dick’s
trouser-leg (he was standing on the
empty hogshead) and, Dick’s ear coming
to the level of his mouth, whispered
something.
Perhaps he had been told to cut it
short! But, when Dick began to drool
once more, I cursed the interruption.
“Dear friends,” said Dick, “a friend
has pointed out that the day, as you
know yourself, is damn’ hot, and the sun,
beating down on our heads, which out
of respect for our dear departed brother,
Brian O’Toole, are uncovered, is likely
to give us a hell of a headache, not to
mention risks of sunstroke, particularly
in the case of the older members of this
here funeral, and in view of these con-
siderations which I have just stated I
reckon that our dear departed brother,
Brian O’Toole, will not take it as an act
of disrespect to his memory if we don
our hats. I’ll ask you, friends, one and
all, to put on your hats and taking it as
granted that they are off out of respect
for our dear departed brother, Brian
O’Toole.”
With these simple words Dick clapped
his cabbage-tree hat, passed to him by
Murk, on his grey head, and the others
followed his example.
Then, the interval having apparently
refreshed him, he picked up the threads
of his discourse with added vigor. By
way of a preamble, he related how con-
scientious O’Toole had been. How, for
instance, his first job had been a grave
for Sin Yup, the half-caste Chinaman
fan-tan keeper, and that O’Toole had dug
that grave as deep, wide and long as he
would dig a white man’s. This virtue
explained and further illustrated, he be-
gan the real sermon.
I had done with swearing. I took a
quick look into the grave, and I knew
that, at the faintest further sign of
smoke, I would cut and run, regardless
of consequences.
But even Dick Toomby’s funeral
oration came to an end. He said his
“dust to dust and ashes to ashes,”
sprinkled the soil and began and finished
a long prayer.
Then we shovelmen fell to.
I don’t think I worked as hard in my
life, before or after, as I did during the
next few minutes. In no time the grave
was filled in, and it was with a feeling
of thankfulness to Providence, which had
kept that burning fuse in check, that I
led the retreat to Turtle Heinrich’s.
Jack Moynahan had sobered up, but
was well on his way on another jag. I
drew him aside and gave him an account
of the happenings. I bore him no
grudge now it was over. After all, half
the blame was rightly mine.
“She’s a dud,” said Jack. “The long-
est I’ve known a crook fuse to burn was
five hours. What you saw in the grave
was a bit of a whirlwind or dust or
something. Maybe your eyes were
blurry from the beer you’d drunk, Over-
land.”
I didn’t bother to argue the point, and
during the next hour or so he helped me
to celebrate my escape from the risk
which I hadn’t run, according to him—
it was all one to Jack.
Most of the others had retired to sleep
it off, or, when Turtle’s supply of beer
cut out, to seek further refreshment at
Wolfram Charlie’s. There were only a
few rum-drinkers left, Turtle, of course,
Jack and I, when at last it happened.
THE ground heaved suddenly, the pub
shook like a jelly, bottles and glasses
clinked together or fell, then came the
roar of the explosion.
“Tentausendteufel! ” cried Turtle, “was
ist das?”
Jack and I knew what it was. Speak-
ing for myself, every foot of that run to
the cemetery seemed to have a sobering
effect.
We squeezed through the wire fence
and began to trip over small and big
stones, noting that the sun-scorched grass
was sprinkled with clayey subsoil.
Further along I saw a battered mass of
black-painted boards.
Jack nodded when I pointed this out.
“The top!” he muttered.
Stumbling over more black-painted
debris we came to a yawning chasm-
big enough, it seemed, to hold the whole
of Dead Cat Creek.
“Where the hell is O’Toole?” said Jack
suddenly, looking about in a bewildered
fashion.
I grabbed his arm and pointed
upwards to a lofty fork of the blood-
wood.
For a few seconds neither of us spoke.
Then I jerked my thumb southwards.
“Overland!” I said bitterly.
Jack Moynahan nodded.
I don’t know about Jack, but for my
part I’ve not set foot in the Cooktown
district since.


5 REASONS
MS
ij&ss
tv»«-
m
*' : > •• i::■:-a v-. V '-5Ex :
13. Frame and cross members are||
| welded into one inseparable p
$ unit. A’o 6oHs or (ioH holes, ||
hence no chance for moisture
to enter and set up rust.
1^
1. Top hinge, boiled
right through the
post, can't loosen
or ptdl out.
5. Chain and iinob
Fastener always
holds gate secure-
, ly closed and can-
not be knocked
or lifted off by
horses or cattle.
2. Bottom hinge also ex-
tends right through the
post, keeping the gate
permanently rigid bottom
as well as top.
4. Five cabled wires, streng-
thened by two upright
cables from lop to bottom
bars, make the gate com-
pletely sheep-proof.
WHY Cgclone GATES
LAST A LIFETIME
CL ONE” GATES are practically everlasting. Some of the
first gates made 37 years ago are still in use today, and today’s
gates are even stronger, are made even better than those old-timers.
If you want a gate which will last you a life-time, and need no main-
tenance, fit “Cyclone.’*
Send the coupon below for FREE catalogue and further information,
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY., LTD.
THE GRACE BUILDING, YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
mm
clone Gates
“ Cyclone” is not a type of gate but is our registered trade mark and can only be legally
applied to gates manufactured by us.
d
PfdOST
IoUfPDN
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
B.‘ 29/4/’36.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Reever: Poem on Abyssinian woes sent to
the Committee of Thirteen for reference to the
Committee of Eighteen for reference to the
Committee of Fifty... .G.A.C.: No market
here for moralising verse... .G.A.P.: No space
* ...... c ...
lor a sei 'J al ol Englisl te >
you 11 probably find it next to impossible to
place anywhere, except, perhaps, as a book.
. ...E.H.T.: A little in them all; just not
enough.. .‘.E.K.L.; Doesn’t get much beyond
fair description... .J.C.R.: Always plenty of
patience here for reading the work of honest
triers; yours wanders too loosely about....
E.A.McC.: Some lines that “Bellerive” might
envy, but they’re not sustained... .J. 8.:
Modern poem seems very good of its kind,
especially when read backwards J.G.M.:
Points in them, but nothing quite publishable,
. ...W.C.P.: One got close... .G.C.T.: For
sheer ambiguity it rivals the Abyssinian war
cables R.W.C.: One of Mussolini’s prob-
lems, eh? :
To colonise his people in a dry and thirsty land
Without a hope of thriving is hard to comprehend.
But you make very ragged verse of it V.S.:
Too stickily sentimental for our taste.
Still, don’t be discouraged; you may grow out
of that... .M.S.-S.: Feeble to worthlessness.
T.C.: Very little meat on that bone
W.R.R.; Strongly advise you to stick to prose.
Charles Reade was never knighted... .L.A.8.:
Tribute to the corned beef of Australia failed
to make us lick our lips H.R.: No ginger in
it; precious little point, either S.R.: It ends
so aptly that we were disappointed in the be-
ginning and the middle C. 8.: No demand
for poems about Mussolini and Hitler....
E.R.1.: “Bullocky Bill” still falls short of pub-
lication standard... .8.5.: Even the most
desperate bard can’t be allowed to rhyme
“team” with “profane”.... D.H.W.: Good
value for a pint, no doubt, but not worth space
rates G. 8.: All three missed the mark....
C.W.T.: A predicament regularly described for
us by the amateur writer... .A.J.S.: By no
means funny D.T.F.: Your Greek met a
stronger Greek at 252 George Street.
....C.C.T.: “Over the Odds” also describes
our thoughts M.8.G.: A stereotyped
faithful-canine plot L.R.; Melodrama, and
poor at that A.E.E.: Was not greatly
interested in the lady’s fate H.J.M.: A
stirring tale for a boys’ paper R.S.G.:
Too muddled A.E.K.: Needs another
ending K.T.: Seem to remember the man
without a memory J.M.F.L.; Surely you
don’t claim that plot as being original
J.C.: Sweeney’s courtship failed to amuse....
R. You’re a dull sentimentalist 0.L.:
On its way back to the west M.M.; A little
too slight J.M.C.: No 8.-J.F.: No tears
here for Little Tommy’s fate J.FTL: Don’t
write on both sides of the paper... .E. 5.8.5.:
Apart from the poor telling it doesn’t ring
true... .A.A.T.: Feeble clowning... .J.C.W.:
You have piled on the agony this time
S. : No shore leave for those sailors
8.E.P.:
The cruel Italians
Came up in battalions
O’er an undefended city.
Best leave that sort of thing to Geneva
P.J.1.: Might have got past if it had run a
little more trippingly... .1.K.: There should
be a market for you in English papers
F.F.: But why convert five of your seven
characters into corpses? ... .A.J.M.: Readers
of twopenny novelettes might like it better
than our hard-boiled customers... .K.P.:
Story takes a long time to get going, and
characters are unreal... .J.D.: Reads like a
couple of pages torn from a guide b00k....
W.W.: A tame account of a tame seaside
courtship... .P.J.: Your tale boils down to a
treatise on our marriage laws... .R. 8.: You
are hardly on nodding terms with the King’s
English, much less with the requirements of a
short story... .E.C.H.: A crude elaboration of
the hackneyed dead-horse-raffle p10t....J-T.:
If we printed that sort of stuff our readers
would be “gentle readers” no longer....
A.W.: Fair idea, but it needs a more forcible
and pithy style to carry it through... .A.D.M.:
Modern legislation has made your blackbird-
ing yarn unconvincing... .N.L.: A hero who
performs so many feats of bravery in the
one day is blacklegging on the Heroes’ Union.
. ...G.R.F.: Plot has possibilities, but the
telling is very clumsy... .A.H.P.: Presumably
after digesting several Foreign Legion stories
you have tried to fit the stuff into Central
Australian yarns. The result was terrible....
A.S.J.: We have grown very weary of that
particular henpecked-husband p10t... .G.W.:
At the most it is worth a lin. Abo. par....
L.S : Don’t try us again until you are less long-
winded... .P.R.M.: A dreary description of
a commonplace incident... .S.W.T.: We have
had many visits from the selfsame chivalrous
bushranger R.H.: Your zeal for killing off
unwanted characters amounts almost to a
mania... .C.M.: The ending is. badly bungled.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.M.: Second-hand gags and sketches that
might have strayed from an undertaker’s.
. ...W.M.S.: An anaemic illustration and a
four-year-old wheeze... .L.S.: Not having a
miscroscope, we couldn’t tell what they were
all about... .H. 8.: They got knocked about
in the post. Must be a lot of art critics in the
P.M.G.’s Department... .H.L.: It is supposed
to be broad daylight, yet the figures are barely
visible... .N.T.: A full list of your artistic
sins would fill a column... .E.J.: Drawing
without a single bright patch O.B.: You
cannot draw a policeman’s baton, much less
a policeman P.S.C.: A battered acquaintance
that “Drunk again—so am 1” gag T.T.:
You are making too severe demands upon your
talents... .C.S.S.: Neat in parts, but it has a
patchwork effect R.H.: Another amateur
taking refuge in silhouettes E.D.: More like
an overfed jackal than an Australian cattle-
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
dog....AJL.A.: Jake lessons... .C. 8.; Ninety-
nine per cent, of these “on-the-spur-of-the-
moment” sketches finish in the basket N.F.:
Little Bobby’s wise retorts brought no smiles.
. ...G.G.; A whitewash brush would be more
in your line H.C.D.: Fair-to-middling
fashionplates, plus “Ladies Journal” gags
A.L.: You’re still in the drawing-cups-and-
saucers stage BJ.: Work with a softer
pencil and don’t neglect the smaller details.
. ...S.P.: After coming all the way from the
Islands it seems a pity it has to make the
journey back LB.: Your tramps look like
half-melted snowmen C.W.: Getting nearer.
... .H.T.: Not so bad, even though you find it
difficult to suggest that the car is moving
W. 8.: Linework is too fine for successful
reproduction, and jests need more punch
C.N.: In the absence of any letterpress we
are wondering why Dad should be dancing
the Highland fling in his nightshirt H.W.:
You have a graceful line, but unfortunately no
sense of humor T.G.: The board you are
using is too rough-surfaced for that kind of
pen work.
Another New Deal measure, the
National Labor Relations Act, has been
declared unconstitutional by a Federal
Judge. Before judgment was delivered
Roosevelt’s Attorney-General despair-
ingly pointed out that “constitutional
objections” had been “raised to nearly
every important piece of legislation
enacted since the beginning of the
republic.”
Indeed, the only legislation as to which
no doubt can exist is an enactment sub-
stantially identical with some previous
statute already approved by the Supreme
Court; and even here there is the possi-
bility of error, in view of the fact that the
Court has frequently reversed itself.
Much the same might be written in Aus-
tralia. “Legalistic systems” have car-
dinal weaknesses from which Father
Bull, with his unwritten Constitution anJ
his supreme Parliament, is free.
* * * *
“Idee” meets a fiery old gentleman:
That par. about Tom Mann (B. 25/3/ 36)
brings to mind my meeting with him in the
Bolshoi Theatre, Moscow, about 18 months
ago. At the end of a ballet there was pro-
longed hissing from the assembled Ivans and
their ladies, and I audibly wondered at it. An
old chap sitting next to me explained. “It’s all
right, son; that’s how they cheer here.’
talked, and then he introduced himselt as
Tom Mann, producing his Soviet passport.
Told that I was from Maoriland, he saiu.
“That’s one of the few places where I've not
been in gaol.” Before we parted in Red Square
he gave me the gleeful assurance that UK
capitalist countries were “settled. ’


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT' STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five, public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats, may be reserved by’Phono. M4OOI.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserveu.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man (35) wants position as manager small
sheep property or boundary rider. Good
knowledge of windmills, pumps. Reis. 1212.
Man (25), eight years’ mixed farming and
plantation exp., mechanical and book-keeping
knowledge, can ride and drive car, wants em-
ployment on sheep station. —1222.
Man (24), nine years’ Diesel and electrical
exp., versed in all mechanical sidelines, wants
work anywhere.—l2l6.
Man desiring to go to England will give ser-
vices as nurse, attendant or valet in return for
fare. Has travelled extensively. Refs. —1223.
One or more partners wanted to join in
purchase of goldmine and crushing machinery;
deposit has been paid.—l26o.
Whereabouts of Mrs. George Corpse, nee
Dorothy Stanley, last heard of at Annandale,
Sydney, 20 years ago. Uncle in South Africa
inquiring.—l 234.
Information Sought.
What are the M.C.C. conditions for Test
matches in Australia concerning (1) covering
the wicket, (2) changing the team after play
begins ? —1230.
(1) Here is the rule: “The whole of the
wicket may be entirely covered up to the
commencement of any match. After the actual
commencement of play the ground may be
again protected when necessary, and shall be
protected every night during the continuation
of the match, but the covering shall be re-
moved each morning, if fine, at seven o’clock.
The covering after the commencement of a
match must not protect a larger area than
18ft. x 12ft. at each end, and must not pro-
tect more than 3ft. 6in. in front of the pop-
ping crease.” (2) The rule is: “The two
captains, before tossing, shall in each match
give each other the names of the respective
teams selected for the match, together with
the name of the emergency fieldsman, and no
alteration shall then be made without the
consent of the opposing captain.”
* * * *
(1) Date and place of birth of Don
Bradman ? (2) Date and place of birth of Stan
McCabe ? (3) Number of runs scored in Test
matches, England v. Australia, by Hobbs and
Bradman ? (4) Greatest number of runs
scored in such Tests by an Australian and by
an Englishman ? (5) Number of wickets taken
by Grimmeft in first-class cricket, including
those taken by him on the South African tour
just concluded ? (6) Has any Australian
bowler taken over 1000 wickets in first-class
matches ? —933.
(1) Cootamundra (N.S.W.), August 27, 1908.
(2) Grenfell (N.S.W.), July 16, 1910. (3)
Hobbs has scored 3636 runs, averaging 54.26;
Bradman’s figures are 2596, averaging 89,51.
(4) Clem Hill, with 2660, holds the aggregate
for Australia; Hobbs tops the English scorers.
(5) Grimmett has taken approximately 1210
wickets, averaging about 21. (6) George
Giffen, with 1119 wickets at 20.63, has taken
more than 1000 wickets while playing ex-
clusively for Australia.
Is it within the rules for a batsman to
change from left- to right-handed batting during
an innirigs or durmg an over? —1157.
This is not covered in the Laws of Cricket,
but the M.C.C. has ruled that the matter could
come within the definition of fair and unfair
play, and in those circumstances the umpire
could rule against a batsman changing from
right-hand to left-hand during an innings.
The decision would depend on the circum-
stances.
»i' $ *!' ¥
(1) What is the ordinary Australian method
of throwing a beast in stock work ? (2) Are
many Australian working dogs killed by snake-
bite ? (3) Are dogs used very much on the
big Australian cattle stations for mustering,
etc. ? —1139.
(1) In Australia the stockman gallops along-
side the bullock and seizes it by the tail. The
horse, travelling at a faster pace than the
beast, then sheers quickly off to assist the rider
in throwing the animal off its balance to the
ground. The horseman has to dismount
instantly and tie the animal’s hind legs
together with a strap carried for the purpose
before it has time to get to’ its feet again.
This practice is resorted to only in running
down scrubbers or by men working indepen-
dently, in rough country or with no yards
available. In “bulldogging,” the rider throws
himself from his horse on to the bullock’s
neck; then he has to bring it to a standstill
before bringing it to the ground by twisting
its head over. On the ground he is wholly
occupied in keeping the headlock on it, and
cannot tie or secure it without outside assist-
ance. (2) Very few. Majority of fatalities
occur through inexperienced dogs attacking
snakes. (3) No. As a rule, a cattle-musterer
travels too far and at too fast a pace over
dry, hot country for a dog to keep up with
him.
% % % %
(1) Approximately what did the taxes
gathered from the whole of Australia amount
to in 1935 ? (2) What does it cost Australia
a year to pay all her politicians ? (3) Approx-
mately what did it cost the Government to
send Mr. Lyons to England last year ? —930.
(1) The total taxation —Commonwealth and
State —for the year 1934-35 amounted to
£95,189,244, made up of State, £36,434,720,
and Commonwealth, £58,754,524. (2) In 1933-
34 the total cost of salaries, etc., to politicians
for the whole of Australia was £346,609. This
includes salaries of Ministers, President and
Chairman of Committees (Upper House),
Speaker and Chairman of Committees (Lower
House) and allowance to members, but does
not include railway passes, postages, etc. (3)
The visit of the Commonwealth Ministerial
delegation cost £12,912 in 1934-35, and £3400
was provided in the estimates for 1935-36.
* :Jc * *
(1) Is the M.L. Government pledged to
Douglas Credit? (2) Is its platform : plank
“State control of currency and credit” likely
to affect the exchange value of M.L. cur-
rency ? —1164.
(1) No, though it got the Douglas Credit
vote. (2) Should the steps taken to give effect
to that policy involve repudiation of national
liabilities, the exchange value of M.L. currency
would depreciate, but no such steps have been
taken, nor are they foreshadowed.
* * * *
(1) How is electrocution carried out ? (2)
Is death instantaneous? (3) When was it
first employed, and who was the first person
electrocuted ? —ll6B.
(1) The condemned man is firmly strapped
in an insulated chair and a cap, containing
a metal plate, is placed over his head, covering
his eyes. The electric current enters through
this plate, and, passing through the body, it
leaves by an electrode strapped to the leg. (2)
Have had no experience, but N.Y. doctors say
it is instantaneous and painless. (3) On August
6, 1890, when W. Kemmler suffered death by
electrocution in New York.
* * * #
In chess, if a player, without losing any
pieces other than pawns, succeeds in bringing
a pawn to his opponent's back rank, can he
nominate it a queen or a rook and have two
queens or three rooks on the board at once ?
If not, can he, on losing a major piece later
in the game, convert the pawn into the lost
piece? If the pawn is not converted into a
major piece, can it move backward ? —1202.
A pawn reaching the opponent’s back row
must be converted, at once, into a major piece.
Though it may be physically impossible, there
is nothing in the rules against a player wind-
ing up with nine queens or ten rooks, or
ten bishops or ten knights.
* * *
How is book censorship conducted in (1)
Australia and (2) England? —l24B.
(1) In Australia book censorship, in the
first instance, is in the hands of an officer
of the Customs Department, delegated for
that purpose in each State, who investigates
all imported printed matter which he con-
siders, either from information received or
from the tenor of titles, advertising material,
etc., may prove objectionable. If satisfied that
a case for such objection exists, he refers
the matter to the Censorship Commission,
which has its headquarters at Canberra. A
State Police Department also has power to bring
action on the complaint of an officer of the
department. Books published in Australia
are dealt with by either the Police Depart-
ment or the Chief Secretary. (2) In England
book censorship is now practically non-existent.
Nominally it is one of the activities of the
Home Secretary, who intervenes very rarely.
* * * *
(1) What is the award rate of wages for
carpenters in N. S. Wales ? (2) Any extra
allowance for country work where there is no
proper accommodation P—lo6l.
(1) Under the State Award, 2s. 4 3-1 Id. per
hour. (2) Clause 10 provides that where
country work is of less duration than six days
living expenses actually and reasonably in-
curred shall be allowed. On jobs of longer
duration the employer shall provide reason-
able board and lodging, and where this is not
done an allowance of 275. 6d. per week of
seven days shall be paid.
:j: * * *
Can you tell me something about Ua-Huka
Island, one of the Marquesas Islands? —111.
Ua-Huka, or Washington, Island is about
24 miles west of Nukuhiva, and is about 74
miles long and about 5 miles wide. The
coastline is indented by numerous bays,
especially on the south and eastern sides. The
valleys on the south side of Ua-Huka are
generally well watered and fertile, but the
northern part contains but few running streams,
and the coastline is barren and forbidding. The
island is divided by a chain of almost inacces-
sible mountains running from the east to west,
of which the highest is over 2000 ft. above the
sea; these are, however, crossed by one or two
trails. As in all the Marquesas Islands, the
valleys of the Ua-Huka contain the relics of
former inhabitants, in the shape of stone
temples and house platforms, but the island
was probably never of any great importance.
❖ ❖ ❖
Is there any publication tracing the de-
scendants of Oliver Cromwell down to recent
times ? —1059.
James Waylcn’s The House of Cromwell
traces the various branches of the Lord Pro-
tector’s family (through the female line) down
to the end of last century. The Sydney Public
Library has the 1880 edition; an edition of
1897 contains later information. There are
about a thousand families, including a number
of great peerages and several baronetcies, who
at the present day trace their descent back to
Oliver Cromwell. The last descendant in the
direct male line was an Oliver Cromwell who
died in 1821. A royal patent for which he had
applied in order to enable his daughter’s hus-
band, Thomas Russell, to bear the name of
Cromwell was refused, and none of the great
Oliver’s descendants now bear that name.
$ * $
Wanted, the correct pronunciation and
meaning of “nolle prosequi,” “persona grata,”
“pergola” and “re” as (used in correspon-
dence) ? —1156.
Nolle prosequi is pronounced nol-le pros-e-
-qui, and signifies an unwillingness to prose-
cute or the withdrawing of the cause of action;
persona gra-ta (grah-ta), an acceptable
person or one in personal favor. Pergola,
meaning an arbor or trellis treated architec-
turally, is accented on the second syllable. Re,
used as a legal or an ordinary business term,
is a Latin term signifying “in the matter of”
or “concerning”; it is used prepositionally for
in re.
* * * *
Can human beings contract diseases through
handling dogs, and, if so, how can such risks
be minimised ? —1042.
Diseases can be transmitted from dogs to
humans, and precaution should be taken
against possible infection. The animal must
be regularly washed and groomed; parasitic
infection is avoided in this way. Use a car-
bolised dog-soap with warm water for the pur-
pose; dust freely with an insect powder after
drying. On no account should the dog sleep
indoors, especially animals of the larger
breeds. Provide a kennel well removed from
the house, and where possible allow a grass
run for exercise. Apart from hydatids and the
like that are transmitted, there is danger of
local skin disorders, ringworm, etc. Wash
the hands after handling toy types, and forbid
the nursing or fondling of dogs that are
affected with mange.
V *•*
I am strong and healthy, age 30, 10V. B lb.,
and lead an active outdoor life. I perspire
freely at any time, but with exertion or in hot
weather it pours out. Other than the un-
pleasantness of soaking my clothes, I feel no
ill-effects or weakness. Cause and remedy? —
1114.
Personal cleanliness and hygiene are essen-
tials ; your outline suggests the requirements
of a simple, non-heating diet. Curtail the
allowance of red meat and fluids with meals,
and take a mild aperient saline each morning.
Meanwhile, bathe night and morning with
germicidal soap and hot water; after drying,
dab affected parts with liquid witch-hazel and
dust with a simple talc. Two teaspoons of
alum dissolved in a pint of water is a useful
astringent for occasional application.
!jt * -V- *
How are glycerine and Epsom salts-mixed
for local application to boils, etc. ? Is this
mixture commonly used as a drawing medium ?
1233.
When poultices,. resin ointment and the like
fail in bringing the boil to a head, the gly-
cerine and Epsom salts combination may be
resorted to. Prepare by mixing 9 parts gly-
cerine with 11 parts salts, approx, (by weight).
“Dry” Epsom salts should be used, but quan-
tity of glycerine may be reduced sufficiently to
form a paste with the commercial salt, which
contains water of crystallisation. Apply on
gauze in the way of a plaster.
* * * *
My hair is falling out and thinning rapidly.
I am 23, and enjoy normal health, except
that 1 am a little under normal weight. Cause
and remedy ? —1055.
Progressive loss of hair after maturity can
seldom be arrested; in most cases gland
deficiencies precipitate the fault. Massage a
bay-rum lotion into the hair roots daily, and
add a trace of castor oil if the scalp is dry.
An occasional singe benefits by strengthening
the hair shaft. Take malt and cod-liver
oil if sub-normal weight persists. Include
fats and cereal foods in the diet ; drink warm
milk freely as. a beverage. Avoid tight-fitting
headwear, and apply warmed olive oil over-
night before shampooing once a week. Use
coal-tar soap and hot water for the latter pur-
pose. In massaging the scalp, employ a pinch-
ing movement from temples and nape of neck
towards the crown to stimulate capillary cir-
culation.
* * * *
What are the chief conditions of the Victor
Daley Prize Essay competition being conducted
by the Henry Lawson Memorial and Literary
Society of Footscray? —ll7s.
(1) Three prizes—£3 10s., £1 and 10s. —will
be awarded. (2) Essays should not exceed
3000 words, and MSS. should be typed if pos-
sible. (3) Essays submitted should have on the
title-page a nom de plume only. The competi-
tor’s name and address should be enclosed in
a sealed envelope with the nom de plume
written on the face of the envelope. (4) Com-
petition closes on June 30, 1936, and essays
should be addressed to S. Ford, hon. sec.,
Henry Lawson Memorial and Literary Society,
63 Windsor-street, Footscray, Vic.
* * *
Preparation for preserving a tarpaulin ?
1069.
If the tarpaulin is not new, clean it
thoroughly and let dry; then brush well. Lay
out in a flat place, and brush it with water,
so that it is damp but not really wet. Make
up this mixture beforehand, and keep it hot
for application; In a tin place 1 quart boiled
linseed oil, add 4oz. scraped yellow soap which
has been dissolved to a jelly with boiling
water, and place over a closed fire to get very
hot; then whisk in a dessertspoon of powdered
alum and stir well. Paint the hot oil mixture
on to the damp tarpaulin; allow it to dry
thoroughly, then give a second coating, and a
third if necessary. It may take several days to
dry between the coatings, and if perfect drying
is not secured the canvas will always be sticky.
« * * *
Recipe for scented bath salts ? —1064.
Add a little oil of lavender or verbena to
washing-soda crystals (sodium carbonate). The
perfume should be somewhat pronounced; stir
well, leave in the air for two hours, then
bottle. The powder bath salt is made by
mixing 14-lb. crushed washing soda and 41b.
powdered" borax. Sprinkle a few drops of oil
of bergamot, lemon grass and lavender over
the mixture, blending the perfumes thoroughly,
and store in a covered jar. This quantity is
sufficient for six baths.
Brief Answers.
P.W.: Psychology is a recognised science;
legally there is no such thing as a “court
of science.” Study people rather than books
if you wish to discover “an explanation of
human conduct”... .W.J.M.: The question has
been discussed; one answer, a biological
analogy, is that life, particularly that associ-
ated with the highest forms of intelligence,
plays the part of nerves to the universe—per-
haps even constitutes a channel of communi-
cation with a mighty directing Brain
J.E.D.; The system is logical and has proved
helpful to hundreds of writers and speakers.
It is an aid to defective memory, and you
cannot expect it to teach you anything save
how to remember... .V.M.: There is a J.
Wenglein of no great eminence. The other
two are unknown.... H. A.: Prospects as a
dentist’s mechanic in Adelaide are stated to be
not very bright.... L.G.P.P.: Director,
National Art Gallery, Sydney, may be able
to help if you send him a detailed descrip-
tion G.A.H.: Yes, an Australian investor
escapes the English income tax while domiciled
in the United Kingdom if he lives on one of
the Channel Islands... .HJ.R.: See Light
Buildings, by E. Lucas (11s. 3d.) 1.W.F.;
Question too vague. Depends upon the kind
of mechanic you wish to become... .A.C.: If
the house is not on its correct alignment,
according to survey, but trespasses on your
side you can compel him to move it back on
to his own property... .G.H.: It means a
quatrain, from the Arabic ruba, four; or, as
in Omar Khayyam’s Rubaiyat, a number of
quatrains M.T.; Can’t get any indication as
to when the next edition of Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia is likely to appear E.H.: Institutes
with which you should qualify are those which
admit members by examination only. They
are the Australasian Institute of Secretaries,
23 Macquarie-place, and the Institute of In-
corporated Secretaries, 19 Bligh-street, both
Sydney. Studies can be carried out by cor-
respondence. Hemingway and Robertson, Bar-
rack House, Barrack-street, Sydney, can give
you information H.E.8.: It would be pre-
ferable if the friends first consulted members
of the family and ascertained their wishes....
P.T.: Mr. Norris Changes Trains was written
by C. Isherwood... .C.W.: William Heine-
mann, 90 Great Russell-street, W.C.I; George
Allen and Unwin, 40 Museum-street, W.C.I ;
Jonathan Cape, 30 Bedford-square, W.C.I; J.
M. Dent and Sons, Aldine House, Bedford-
street, W.C.2; and Methuen and Co., 36 Sussex-
street, W.C.2 —all London L.F.: Bobbin
means “a smoky place”; Billenoy, “running
creek”; Inglebar, “crayfish hole”; Jerrara,
“water falling”; and Nyrang, “little” —all are
N. abo. place-names.. . .E.L.: Place the
matter in the hands of a solicitor... .A.M.G.:
Write W. C. Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-street,
Sydney 8.G.: The population of Cessnock
(N.S.W.) at the 1933 census was 14,387.
W.M.; Capt. W. D. Joynt, of the Bth
Batt., earned his V.C. for “most conspicuous
bravery and devotion to duty” during the attack
on Herleville Wood, near Peronne, on
August 23, 1918 C. 8.: See Horde’s Story
of the Bar of Victoria T.K.: You
should be able to obtain such instruction
from any of the leading correspondence
schools... .A.BJ.: The ticket did not win a
prize F.E.C.: Write Arthur Vale and Co.,
39 York-street, Sydney, from whom the oil
can be obtained in quantities of not less than
40 gallons E.8.M.: They would have an
approximate value of 305., but a returned
soldier collector might pay more for senti-
mental reasons J. 1.: Handbook for Pros-
pectors, by M. W. Von Bernewitz (215.), and
Prospecting for Gold, by I. L. Idriess (ss.) —
both obtainable from leading booksellers —and
A Guide for the Use of Prospectors in N.S.W.
(25.), issued by the N.S.W. Mines Department.
J.W.M.: Under reciprocal arrangements
between the Manchester Unity Orders through-
out the world, provision has been made for
members to transfer by clearance from one
section to another. Where the clearance has
a stated vaiue attached, this is used by the
accepting society to permit of the member
being placed on the age group under which he
was initiated. In the absence of any clear-
ance value the member is accepted as at the
age when the clearance is placed into the
accepting lodge, and contributions are charged
accordingly... .E.G.8.: 25 pints milk, 7 pints
water, 241 b. coffee, 2 teaspoons salt; less milk
may be used in proportion, but the difference
must be made up in water to the quantity.
Boil the water and pour it over the coffee and
salt. Steep in a warm place for five minutes.
Strain out the grounds. Heat the milk and
mix the strained coffee liquor with it. Make
very hot for serving... .H.C.W.: The last
year for which Clement Wragge issued a fore-
cast was 1930... .W.E.L.C.: The nut or fruit
of the tropical palm Cocos nucifera is given
in the New Oxford Dictionary with two spell-
ings: cocoanut and coconut R.S.; All
appointments to the field staff of the N.S.W.
Forestry Commission are made by the Public
Service Board, with whom you should regis-
ter your name for the position of temporary
forester. Salary is determined by the Crown
Employees (Foresters-Forestry Commission)
Award. Applicants should, as far as prac-
ticable, have a knowledge of map-reading,
elementary surveying, forestry computations,
be able to identify timbers, and have a general
idea of forest working conditions. Hours of
working are governed by Public Service Regu-
lations... .L.W.; (1) The umpire should call
“no ball.” (2) Ye5....H.W.: The usual
method of bending timber is to steam it for a
sufficient time to soften it. It can then be
bent to the required shape. It is left on the
bending form until cold. Probably the same
process could be applied to bamboo... .T.P.:
Get in touch with Lever Bros., Balmain....
L. 0.: In a small percentage of cases practi-
cal anaesthesia can be induced by hypnotic
suggestion. The effect is variable and indefi-
nite. With the patient in a state of hypnosis
minor operations have been performed in Con-
tinental and American hospitals, and medical
journals have briefly noted results. As the
degree of hypnosis cannot be determined, its
use in surgery is restricted!.... (Many others
mailed.)


SAVE TIME and MONEY IN
PLOUGHING . . .
a FORDSON
h—nL
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR - 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER.BALANCED CRANKSHAFT .... HEAVY-DUTY
TRANSMISSION . . . GOVERNOR CONTROL . . . SPECIAL
AIR CLEANING SYSTEM . . . CRANKCASE VENTILATION . . .
“HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER . . . CLUTCH PULLEY . . . POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-power
on the market. It saves time and money on every job—ploughing,
harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson is available
with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips. Your local Ford
dealer will explain the easy purchase
terms provided by the special Fordson
gjpasawa finance plan.
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated m Vic.) F62.16.T
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT DAGENHAM, ENGLAND
Hot Water
WAifelW
DOMESTIC BOILERS
Not only is White Rose an efficient boiler, but it is also a
definite saver of labor and conserver of your energy.
It is most reasonable to instal, and Its maintenance costs
are nil.
In operation it burns any type of fuel—coke, wool or coal.
Special grates are supplied for briquettes.
\ So economical is White Rose that, burning coke, you get
as much as 34 gallons for about a penny—whilst as far as
wood-burning is concerned we venture to suggest that it
would amount only to the cost of carting.
It might interest you to know that White Rose boilers that
have been installed for as long as 25 years have never
required any repair work—simply because they’re solidly
constructed and they HAVEN’T any elements to burn out.
-rfqestf
JOHN DANKSeSONItd:
SSI-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
064
KITCHEN
:
■T
DAIRY
c.i
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
•n
se
1
<i<*r
m
&
m
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
A MIXED GRILL.
“S.T.S.”; The old superstition that the
imported article must always be best dies
hard. Lately, when I suggested that Aus-
tralian whisky should be tried in a club,
an ordinarily polite fellow-member
turned on me with “And who would
drink the stuff?” Just so would his
father have spoken about Australian beer,
and his grandfather about “colonial”
wine and brandy.
* * * *
Mark Briggs, one of Maoriland’s new
Labor Ms.L.C., was a conscientious ob-
jector during the conscription business.
His story is told in From Calvary to
Armageddon, by Harry Holland, who
would have been M.L.’s first Labor
Prime Minister had he lived a little
longer.
❖ % H*
“Cendre”; The sailorman who pol-
ished all the patina off the Captain
Cook’s bronze figurehead (B. 15/4/’36)
reminds me of an artist friend who re-
turned from the war with a fine minia-
ture reproduction of Cellini’s Perseus
which he had picked up somewhere in
France. The patina was perfect, and
when he gave the statuette to a friend as
a wedding present he felt he had made
the perfect sacrifice. On the fateful day
he went with the other guests to view
the gift. His gift was there all right—
polished by the bride and her mother
until he could see himself in the gleam-
ing bronze.
# :|: % .
Australia is thrilled with the glad news
from the P.M.G.’s department that Dood-
lakine can now ring up Reykjavik and all
other parts of Iceland. Doubtless im-
ports of ice will be at least trebled, with
resultant advantage to customs revenue.
And Reykjavik will certainly be included
in the next political jaunts. Meanwhile
little matters like extortionate letter rates,
cessation of deliveries over holidays,
we?ek-end isolation of country townships
from telephonic facilities except at a ridi-
culously high “detention” charge and so
on continue to receive the complete in-
attention of postal bureaucrats.
•S* V *!• '
“Shep”: The paragraph about Paris-
ian demoiselles scrapping over their
fancies in a wrestling match (B. 25/3/’36)
reminds me of an occasion when we
found ourselves between opposing femi-
nine camps in a Brussels cabaret
just after the Armistice. Their scrim-
mage started on the dance floor, partners
striving to pull them out of scratching
range. One lady shied the contents of
her wineglass at her opponent across our
heads, our uniforms collecting most of it.
Back came more wine complete with
glass. Believing it was anyone’s brawl
then, we grabbed the two ring-
leaders and proceeded to tap their
heads together, to the delight, of the
revellers. Squeezing his way through the
onlookers came the cabaret manager.
“Non, non,” he shouted above the din,
and seizing one of the Amazons he
firmly placed her across his knee and
soundly spanked her. My cobber did
likewise with the other one. But the only
thanks we got for helping to restore the .
peace was that a military picket threw
us out, reasoning that, being Diggers, we
must have started the row.
* ' * ❖ * . ,
Something new and effective in fashion
films was included among recent shorts.
Instead of displaying their wares on
the usual stage or boulevard, the
mannequins put to sea on a fashionable
ship, and, with salt breezes ruffling fheir
hair and the sea rushing past in the
background, displayed cruise clothes,
swimming-pool wear, dance frocks and
evening cloaks for promenading round
the deck. For shuffle-board, the female
cruiser who knows her stuff chooses
knitted cardigans to go with plaid skirts
and ties of the same checker-board pat-
tern. For dog-paddling, her one-piece
garments are of pastel shades knitted in
fancy patterns, and she has a silver cello-
phane special to dazzle the eye of her
favorite officer.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Robins wants Lord’s,
“the best cricket ground in the world,”
better advertised. The superlative
quality of Lord’s is one of the polite fic-
tions of the game. It is small and
cramped for modern requirements, and
no first-class ground has worse pitches.
It is many years since the saying that a
century at Lord’s is harder to get than
two on any other ground has been uni-
versally accepted by players and the
cricket public. Other disadvantages are
the sharp slope of the ground across the
pitch, which used to be worth innumer-
able wickets to off-break spinners, like J.
T Hearne. Still another is that there is
no sightboard at the pavilion end. Its
place being taken by the swing doors of
the members’ bar, which are constantly
opening and shutting on a thirsty day.
That should do for the present.
sjc * Sk *
“Spoon”: An American exchange
gives the alleged earnings of the seven
leading Yankee professional golfers for
1935. . Revolta heads the list with £1909,
and it tails off to Ghezzi with just £9OO
less. Even considering the depresh in
Yankeeland, this doesn’t sound so won-
derful, since these men play practically
all the year round in one part or other
of the U.S.A. At the same time the
figures represent tournament winnings,
and do not take into account retaining
fees or baksheesh from sellers of golf
material.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, there was
no- racing on Anzac Day, The only fare
provided for metropolitan racegoers dur-
ing the week was a down-the-line meet-
ing— at Epsom. There were six events:
three went to favorites and three to out-
siders ; so, on paper, backers and book-
makers broke even. Actually it did not
happen that way; it never does.
Recent running suggested that Kitty
O’Shea had returned to her best form.
She was made favorite for the Inglehurst
Handicap, run over nine furlongs, but
she was fated to run another third —her
third in four starts, and she was fourth
on the other occasion—being beaten by
Northwind (8 to 1) and Windmar. In
his last start Northwind had won at Men-
tone, and in her last Windmar had suc-
ceeded at Caulfield. Northwind is a
four-year-old gelding by Windbag—Miss
Bon, trained by B. R. Hoysted for
G. Farrow.
The Epsom Plate proved a good thing
for Croden Lad (5 to 2), another second
going down on L’Elite’s record. There
was 41b. between them —in Croden Lad’s
favor. L’Elite is having a great deal
of racing, but it does not seem to be
doing him any harm. Croden Lad (Crow-
dennis —Pistol Lassie) is almost a cham-
pion at five furlongs.
A Perth club introduced the notion of
putting on mile-and-a-half and two-mile
races for novice horses and failures at
sprinting, and it has been copied by Mel-
bourne clubs, with the result that good
stayers may come to light, as has been
the case in the West. The Epsom Purse
was a 12-furlongs affair. It brought out
a field of 11 and furnished an interest-
ing race, which was won by Restford
(Frilford —-Soporific), a 12-to-l shot, from
Viator, Greek Chatter and Full Charge,
a 7-to-4 favorite. Restford ran the dis-
tance in 2min. 34sec., relatively the best
time of the day, and should score in
better company.
Full Charge put in good work at the
business end of the journey and pulled
up sound. Last winter Full Charge
started one of the hottest favorites on
record for the G. N. Hurdle at Fleming-
ton, but fell at the first flight. When
working subsequently on the Caulfield
track the Thracian gelding split a bone
in his near hindleg. This put him out of
action for a long period.
Creswick stated at Epsom that Feld-
spar is thriving on his holiday at Bacchus
Marsh. In the spring he may compen-
sate A.T. for Garrio’s recent unintelli-
gible failures at Randwick.
There was a rush to back Peggy O’Neil
for the first division of the Shoreharr
Novice Handicap, but it had no stable
inspiration, and the imported filly eased
from 2 to 1 to twice those odds. Peggy
O’Neill is trained by Frank Godby, and
races in the colors which Marabou
carried to victory in the Melbourne Cup,
her owner, T. Hogan, of Sydney, having
held a part interest in that horse. The
filly was bought by Hogan at a sale of
horses sent out by the Anglo-Irish Blood-
stock Agency. Peggy O’Neill, with 7st.
51b., finished only fifth —the minimum
weight was 7st. No very promising dis-
play in novice company.
The race in which Peggy O’Neill failed
so signally went to Last Thrice (Thrice —
Patrice), trained by W. Howick, who used
to ride over fences for the late Harry
McCalman. The last-moment favorite,
Andy Spark, a handsome stallion by
Richmond Main, was third ; he will do
better. Andy Spark is in the stable of
Archie Ling, who assisted P. T. Heywood
in the training of Artilleryman and other
great gallopers. Punters also misfired in
the second division of the Novice Handi-
cap, Ronnsoy (5 to 2), a colt by Ronsard,
the sire of Barak, “coming home with the
milk.” Coster Lad (Eaton Lad —Pearly)
scored comfortably from Lobengula, a
castoff from the establishment of Jack
Holt, who could find no trace of merit
in the son of Night Raid. His new
trainer, Percy Foster, is not flying at
high game with Lobengula, and a small
win may be in sight for the gelding.
Smart juveniles are coming to light at
the back-end of the 1935-36 season in
Melbourne. Silver Edge (Gilt Edge
Welosia) gave eye-opening performances
at Williamstown on Easter Monday and
Caulfield in the same week. At Epsom
the Great Star colt Great Feast ran away
from his rivals, covering four furlongs
and nine chains in a minute —despite wet
weather. Neville Percival rode both
youngsters. Like Percival, Temby, who
trains Great Feast, was in Westralia for
many years ; he is a native of Ballarat.
Burlesque (Seremond- —Gay Song) is
the mystery horse of Melbourne at
present. Twice winner of the valuable
Consolation Stakes at Caulfield, he started
favorite for the Easter Cup at Wiliiams-
town, but finished last. Still worse was
his display in the Glenhuntly Handicap
at Caulfield on April 18. However, last
week Burlesque did an excellent trial
with Dewhurst up, and the theory now
is that he will do his best for Dewhurst
only. Burlesque is to be sent to Adelaide
for the King’s Cup. So is Hall Mark,
who is shaping encouragingly on the
tracks. Holt, trainer of Hall Mark, won
a King’s Cup (in Hobart) with that gal-
lant old battler Second Wind.
* * * *
Since F. E. Elbeshausen succeeded the
late A. V. Hiskens as secretary, the
V.A.T.C. has introduced many new
ideas on' its course, among them the
easily-distinguishable American type of
numbers on saddle-cloths. But what will
give Caulfield the biggest advertisement
for enterprise, if it proves practicable, is
the “Magic Eye” method of judging
finishes by photography. Tests have been
made with impromptu fields of juveniles,
and experimenting was extended to an
actual race at the last Caulfield meeting.
Reports are favorable, and it is predicted
that in the near future photographic
science will supplement —and possibly
supersede—the efforts of the judge in de-
termining what horse has won at “the
Heath.” General adoption of the sys-
tem on Melbourne courses would almost
inevitably follow, as in the case of
machine-starting long years ago.
Meanwhile the committee has decided
to increase prize-money substantially.
Caulfield Cup rewards are to go up £6OO
to £6500, Caulfield Guineas 600 guineas
to 2600 guineas and Futurity Stakes £4OO
to £3OOO. A £l5O trophy will also be
handed to the owner of the Cup
winner. Excluding value of baubles, the
Caulfield Cup race will be worth £l5OO
more than the A.J.C. offers for the
Sydney Cup. Another fact for the
A.J.C. committee and the greedy Sydney
Government to ponder over.
* -p * *
Prizes for the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle and Steeple in July will be the
same as last year—£lsoo and £2500 —
but the cost of running in the Steeple has
been reduced by £5. Stakes for the minor
events have been increased by £1250. The
committee has allocated £3050 for its
meeting on June 6 and £3150 for the
King’s Birthday fixture (June 29). Appar-
ently the premier club in Melbourne is
determined not to be outstripped by th
V.A.T.C. in working back to peak
standards.
Ht * * *
Disalto had 9st. 51b. in the Maiden
Handicap at Warwick Farm and 7st. lib.
in the Denham Court Handicap, in which
there were smart sprinters. Randwick
trainer Bailey Pay ten chose the apparently
harder race. Disalto (7 to 2) worried
Thebez out of first prize and landed a
betting plunge. It was a great day for
the stable, since Payten led in two other
well-backed winners in Menu and Irving.
Both are by Salmagundi, sire of Sala-
mander, and will be heard of again.
The Sydney man who races as “Mr.
Constable” and his partner, W. J. Smith,
have a good two-year-old in Mark
Antony. Carrying 9st. in the Warwick
Farm Nursery, for which he was 5 to 2,
he made hacks of his opponents, beating
the favorite, Joe Harris’s Blackbird
(Magpie —Ascalon), arid Ezra Norton’s
Limond filly Retrieved pointless. Small
but sturdy, Mark Antony is by
Kuvera’s sire, Brazen, out of Allmark.
With two wins and a dead-heat for first
he is a cheap colt at 500 guineas,
A game finish gave the Farm Novice
to Fair Diana (2 to 1). Sold recently to
S. W. Phillips for 650 guineas, she re-
duced the liability by £ll5. Now trained
by Booth at Rosehill, Fair Diana is a
nice sort of chestnut filly by Heroic
Rythona.
* * * *
Veilmond’s half-brother Prince Pombal
is not one of those horses that can t
stand up to racing. At Randwick he was
tried over hurdles (two miles) on Easter
Saturday, and was back at flat-racing on
Easter Monday. Unplaced on each occa-
sion, he came out in a six-furlongs race
at Rosebery last Wednesday, and led from
barrier to judge’s box, equalling the
course record —Imin. 14fsec. As a track
galloper Prince Pombal is the worst in
the world. He has never won a trial;
scrubber after scrubber has beaten him.
With the colors up, the cunning old chap
is different. He has speed to burn, and
usually wins his races in the first furlong.
Prince Pombal was topweight, with 9st.
31b , for the Flying Handicap at Victoria
Park (Sydney), to be run to-day, and
there were 119 other nominations. That
represents an expenditure of £450 to £5OO
a week on sprinters, many of which are
useless except for zoo meat. It points
to a revival of prosperity, though not
necessarily in racing (albeit most of the
elements of such a revival are present).
Victoria Park gets big fields largely be-
cause it has a very good racing track.
**, * *
By a coincidence which delighted the
manager of the K.P.M. line, Orange
Bitters won the Albury-Netherlands Gold
Cup for K. G. Richards. The golden
trophy was donated by the K.P.M. people
—still grateful for the resourcefulness
shown by Albury people when the Dutch
airliner was in danger in the Vic. cen-
tenary air race —and Orange Bitters is a
gelded son of Nassau, a name illustrious
in- Dutch history. Our William 111. was
a prince of Orange-Nassau, and Queen
Wilhelmina is descended from a branch
of the Nassau family.
Opinion was favorite for the race at
Albury, and was in front nearly all the
way. But Orange Bitters (4 to 1) finished
too strong for him, and so did Melton
Maid (4 to 1); the distance, 10 furlongs
less 20 yards, was covered in 2min. ssec.
Orange Bitters is in the Wagga Gold Cup,
10 furlongs, to be run to-day. He or
Tapestry may win.
* * * *
If he goes along all right, Egmont will
be one of the early favorites for the Mel-
bourne Cup. Andy Knox had to waste
hard to ride at 7st. 2lb. in the Sydney Cup,
and the Limond colt went under by half
a head. Egmont did not leave an oat
in the manger after his gruelling race.
Price won a Melbourne Cup with Wind-
bag.
* * * *
Neil McKenna is taking Sixteen Annas
to Melbourne next month for the
Nationals. The Genius, who showed
pace and clever jumping in the Autumn
Hurdle at Randwick, will be another
visitor.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The English Betting
Control Board is experimenting with a
tote system which we may see adopted
at Randwick about 1986. Punters have
to tip first and second for a race like
the Epsom Derby, and tickets will be
obtainable on all registered courses, be-
ginning at 2s. 6d. and climbing to 55.,
7s. 6d. and 10s. as the date of the race
approaches and the probable starters are
known. Winners divide the pool less
a percentage, and a lucky punter may
win thousands from a half-crown flutter.
A start may be made with the new
scheme on the Derby.
*.* * *
R. P. Trihey, the owner and trainer of
Regular Bachelor, is not going back to
Queensland. He bought several yearlings
at the Easter sales and has set up a
stable at Warwick Farm, which is increas-
ingly favored by trainers —not altogether
because of its own merits, although these
are considerable, but because of track
shortcomings at Randwick. Regular
Bachelor has entered upon a two months’
spell. He will, of course, be prepared
for spring racing, and it is intended to
try him over a distance. It is quite on
the cards that he will prove as versatile
as Lough Neagh—both are sons of
Bachelor’s Persse.
* * * *
Queenslanders were disappointed with
the N.S.W. showings of Soft Step and
Faith Australia, being of opinion that
Soft Step is a better horse than Spear
Prince and Faith Australia at least his
equal. Sydneysiders would not say that,
although it is abundantly clear that they
did not see Soft Step at his best. Faith
Australia, it transpires, had attacks of
bleeding during training operations at
Warwick Farm, and Soft Step, relishing—
in a gastronomic sense —the change of
scene and air, got into the habit of eating
his bedding—“did himself too proud,” as
a patron of the stable ruefully expressed
it. He was placed on offer to Alick
Higgins, who nowadays buys extensively
for India. Higgins preferred Spear
Prince, and would have gone to 2000
guineas for him, but Jennings would not
sell.
* * * *
At a Sydney sale of stud stock and
racehorses in training, Hebrus, a half-
brother (by Devizes) to Heroic, was sold
for 700 guineas, and Gaine Carrington
brought 650 guineas. Each was knocked
down to a Queenslander, and a Tas-
manian snapped up the only racehorses
sold for anything like substantial prices
—lllawarra (550 guineas) and Tremayne
(275 guineas). At the yearling sales most
of the youngsters for which bidding was
really brisk —practically all the thousand-
pounders—were purchased for other
parts of the Commonwealth, though N. S.
Wales is the premier breeding State and
should be equally supreme in buying.
These facts, together with the falling-off
in attendances and tote receipts at Rand-
wick, should give the A.J.C. food for
thought. They are undoubtedly effects
of the unsatisfactory condition of racing
in N. S. Wales, as exemplified by exces-
sive charges and taxes, the dispropor-
tionate amount of proprietary racing for
poor prize-money and the plethora of
battlers and silver bookmakers.
* * * *
It was revealed last week that a bad
blunder had been made at Randwick in
the calculation of tote dividends on
Contact, winner of the Sydney Cup.
Since the new machine was installed, ss.
has become “the unit of investment,” as it
is called (although money risked on the
chances of a horse cannot possibly be
“invested”), and it seems that “two
officials, working separately,” calculated
the div. for ss. at £2 instead of £2 4s.
The result was that backers of Contact
received in the aggregate £2OO-odd less
than they were entitled to. The tote co.
has handed over this money to the Gov-
ernment, which grasping concern had
already received 9 p.c. from the pool.
The incident is decidedly unsatisfactory.
In other parts the amount staked on
every horse is written on a sheet, which
is pasted on a board and exhibited in
front of the tote building ; but this check
on bad arithmetic is denied the public at
Randwick.
* >i= * *
The V.R.C. committee dismissed the
appeals of the trainer (S. G. Ware) and
rider (W. Jenkins) of Gold Fox against
the twelve months’ disqualification im-
posed for the running of that horse at
Epsom on April 4. G. J. Barton, the
owner, made a special trip from Maori-
land to give evidence for his employees.
Immediately he learned that it had been
unavailing, he instructed Mackinnon and
Cox to auction Gold Fox, Gay Circle,
Riddle, Desert Chief, Jack Horner,
Autumn Wind, Worship and Reminder,
and Ware is selling Palatinate and Foreign
Star. They were all bred in Maoriland,
and all except Riddle are in training.
Footbrawl
With the forwards rucking hard and
a fast back line working well together,
Eastern Suburbs gave Manly a bad doing
in the Rugby Union match at the Vil-
lage. East led 15-3 at the spell, and went
further ahead, 25-11 (five tries to three).
The losers missed half-back McLaren, but
all the backs were too much inclined to
“go alone.” A solid forward game be-
tween North—on top last season —and
University went to the Students, 11-9,
after each side had scored three tries.
North should have won; its kicking for
goal w'as dreadful. West (21) accounted
for Parramatta (13), still somewhat
ragged, putting on four tries to two ;
and Drummoyne (22, six tries) was too
strong for the Gordon baby (9, two tries).
Randwick had practically a practice run
against St. George, 46 to 0. The Greens,
Uni. and Drummoyne are the unbeaten
teams.
* * * *
Arsenal won “f Coop” final at Wemb-
ley. beating Sheffield United by 1 goal to
nil.
{Continued on next page.)
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Imperial Handicap; Gay Pop ;
next. Hostile.
Ascot Handicap: Carnarvon;
next, Windmar.
Otway Welter; Rondeau ; next,
Eglonite.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Brighton Handicap: High ; next,
Journal or Buonarroti.
Moorefield Handicap: Jovial
Son ; next, Irving or Journal.
Flying Welter: Architect; next,
Disalto.


Un«" s
Sevens
BucKhpJJl
is the
"It to • ®Jf t Saent iif'soa
?*£&&&&&•
s?g£r~ ■ *
you' .write
lf Exclude « e P res /io!', 1Ve ’
OUI ASHBK SMITH. Sydney-
-181 Clarence Sir
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Yes, Palmer should have gone back to
England. There on Thursday Petersen,
the cheese champion, and McAvoy, a
stone lighter and 7in. shorter in the
reach, ambled through 15 rounds, jeered
at by a crowd which had paid fancy
prices to see a fight. Judging by the
reports, one (1) punch was landed. It
floored McAvoy, and the other ambler
got the decision.
if * * *
A new turn was added to the sorry
farce of the Olympic Games selection
when a youth named Cohen, told that he
had been provisionally added to the team
at the eleventh hour, virtually by that
pillar of amateurism James Taylor (the
mail vote for and against additions was
a tie, and Taylor gave his casting vote
for the ayes), engagingly replied “Oh, but
I’ve turned pro.” He had signed up to
box a four-round preliminary at the
Stadium under the management of a
charming widow. The lad (he is only 17)
may live to regret it. He will find it
dashed hard to make even the basic
wage boxing “prelims.” at the Stadium.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: The Vic. F.L. barge over
infringements of the Coulter law limit-
ing the amount of money paid to foot-
ballers has ended for the time being. A
subcommittee appointed to delve into
the charges recommended that all club
books should be audited by auditors em-
ployed by the League. This met with
opposition, but eventually the recom-
mendation was passed on to the League
Council for consideration—the V.F.L.
method of referring the matter to a royal
commission. The V.F.L. has always had
a strong infusion of politicians.
* * * *
“Richmond”: Some of the weaker and
poorer League clubs in Melbourne are
protesting against their wealthier cobbers
signing on every player who looks in the
least likely at the start of the season.
When the competition begins many of
these men never get a game, but are
prevented from going to other clubs. One
delegate said that some League clubs,
rather than let their unwanted players
transfer to other League clubs, made a
point of forcing them into the arms of
the rival Association.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”; Melbourne “Age” stated
some time ago that two Vic. Rugby
Union delegates would visit Sydney at
Easter to discuss, among other matters,
the formation of an Australian Rugby
Union. Not a peep about the matter ap-
peared in Sydney dailies. The “Age”
now reports that the delegates are back
in Melbourne with the information that
an Australian R.U. is certain to be
formed shortly. Again not a squeak from
the Sydney press, to a rag backers of the
N. claim to be the supreme panjan-
drum of the amateur code in Australia.
* * * *
“Gate”; In spite of press boosting,
Sydney Rugby League’s experiment with
night football proved a washout. Accord-
ing to a delegate at a League meeting,
advertising cost £562, while receipts just
topped £7OO, leaving a chicken-feed sum
to be divided among the clubs taking part.
The original idea was to continue the
second half of the night programme in
November. A motion to cancel this has
been tabled.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australians,
now in the U.S.A., have been over-
whelmed with invitations to show in
tournaments in Seattle and other places
before crossing the continent for the
Davis Cup tie at Philadelphia. That will
not begin until May 30, so the tourists
should have plenty of time to settle down.
As McGrath and Crawford were played
to fiddlestrings before leaving Australia,
one would have thought that a good loaf,
with regular and easy practice such as
the Americans have affected in the past
while waiting in Britain for the challenge
round, would have been better for the
side.
* * * *
“Hotham”; No one was surprised
when the Australian tennis ranking list
showed that McGrath had been dropped
to fifth place. He was shockingly un-
reliable on the last European trip, and
went from bad to worse on his return to
Australia. Long ago, when the exploita-
tion of this player began —he was then
barely 16 —good judges predicted that
his downward slide would be as swift as
his rise. Ever since then the young fel-
low has been overworked year in and
year out. Everyone will wish him a re-
covery of his old brilliancy overseas.
;J; * * *
“Cannibal”: The retirement of Menzel
leaves the field of clown tennis free to
Mishu, of Rumania, It is a common
thing for Mishu to walk off the court if
he loses a point or doesn’t agree with
the umpire. Sometimes he shows his
indignation by standing with his back to
the net and serving over his shoulder;
if really put out he
is apt to vary this
by bending down
and serving between
his legs. The
Rumanian staged
another .method of
protest recently when
he was ordered to
play in the rain. He
came on the court in
an oilskin and hold-
ing an umbrella.
Mishu must come to
Australia.
* *
“Centre Court”:
The English L.T.A.
has told managers
of future touring
teams that evening
festivities must be
dodged by the
players as much as
possible. Coc h e t
and Austin have
both endorsed this
action, holding that
receptions and
dinners on trips of
this kind make first-
class form on the
courts impossible.
There is a lot in it.
No man who has
had to sit through
the agonies of a
mayoral reception,
say, is good for any-
thing for 24 hours
after. About the
only thing a visiting
male athlete misses
on these occasions is
being kissed by the
Chief Citizen and his
aldermen; but he
has to go through the equally horrid
ordeal of being slobbered over.
* * * *
“Rev, Knucklebone”: When Mrs.
Cozens —Miss Bickerton as was —went
abroad some time ago she made inquiries
as to a women’s team visiting Australia
in the near future. The result was so
reassuring that the N.S.W. tennis coun-
cil, which turned a very glassy eye on
the visit of Dorothy Round and her
mates until it proved a money-making
proposition, has actually asked its women
members to draw up a scheme for the
tour. It is proposed to invite the Eng-
landers in 1937, and the scheme may
develop into an international series on
Davis Cup lines.
“Why isn't Tohi playing? Selection committee chuck
him out ?”
“No; police chuck him in.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”; When Ferrier returns
to Australia a match with Williams, of
Victoria, will have to be arranged. An
attempt was made to bring the two
together before Ferrier left for Europe,
but neither was willing to play on the
other’s midden. Williams has been
so unbeatable in club golf that his club,
Victoria, has asked the Golf Associa-
tion to raise his handicap to plus three.
He will be the only golfer in Victoria on
this mark. Since the beginning of the
year his scores have averaged 71.75 per
round, average Bogey being 76.
* ❖ * *
\
“Woogaroo”: When Von Nida, the
Queensland professional golfer, went
down to the Tasmanian golf meeting, be
was finahced by a small Brisbane syndi-
cate. Though he did not get away with
any of the big events. Von Nida was
among the money all the time. He
returned with £75 —enough to repay the
debt and declare a dividend.
“Sandy Gallop”: Recently Goodna
golf club in Queensland changed its
name to Gailes, the local railway station
having been labelled to that effect. This
is the second change of the kind. In the
long ago the place was named “Woo-
garoo” after the large hospital for the
insane which used to be the chief reason
for the existence of the dorp. Visiting
low comedians found the name so allur-
ing that at the request of the “outside”
inhabitants the village and hospital were
rechristened “Goodna.” This, in turn,
became identified with the big Govern-
ment establishment by the river, and hence
“Gailes.” The hospital will continue to
be known as “Goodna,” and thus run no
risk of being confused with the golf club.
* 4s $ *
“The McHaggis”: In a letter home
Perrier mentions that his caddie is a
hardy youth of 62. These fine, fruity old
lads used to be a feature of Scottish golf.
The cle luxe edition of Golf Illustrated,
by Bernard Darwin, which writer is for-
tunate enough to own, has several hun-
dred colored plates of golfers of the
time, with their attendant caddies, one or
two of them being by such artists as
Raeburn. The gem of the collection is
one of a noble golfer whose name has
escaped for a moment. He is depicted
as playing in a white silk hat, scarlet
tail-coat, white breeches and silk stock-
ings, with pumps. Close by stands a
venerable wreck of a caddie with a
black bottle sticking out of each ruinous
coat pocket.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: Australians beyond the
mental age of 11 are sick of the Olym-
pic Games shindy, and only yawned
when it was announced that nine young
persons had been added to the team
provided £2OO was put up in each case
before to-day (Wednesday). The choice
was made by the Olympic Federation
executive, and the nine are swimmers
Kendall (N.S.W.), Miss De Lacy (W.A.),
Misses Mackay and Dennis (N.S.W.);
athletes Dickinson (N.S.W.) and Wood-
house (Vic.), boxers Cohen (N.S.W.)
and Cooper (Vic.) and wrestler O’Hara
(Vic.). Cohen has turned pro., and some
of the others may be unable to raise the
money. Meanwhile H. R. Weir and H.
G. Wakeling have resigned from the
Olympic selection committee. Both are
Victorians, and both bluntly assert that
the whole trouble was worked up because
the long list of Sydney candidates wasn’t
picked. The charge is unanswerable.
“Scaler”: Boiled down, much of the
trouble over the Olympic team seems to
have been due to lack of money. This
confined the selection within narrow
limits. Contrary to general belief, little
of the cash financing the team comes
from the public. It is supposed to be
collected in the form of a small levy per
member from the bodies affiliated to the
Australian Olympic Council, and this
money is subsidised pound for pound by
the Federal Government. As The
Bulletin has several times pointed out,
many of the affiliated bodies have
ignored their obligations under the levy
scheme, some of them being regular de-
faulters every year. If these people
had stood up to their undertakings there
would have been a much larger sum in
the Olympic coffers, and with the Govern-
ment subsidy a fund enabling a larger
team and a wider range of selection
would have been available.
* sfs * *
“The Gaffer”; The Grampians Handi-
cap, a distance race at the Stawell (Vic.)
meeting, must have recalled old times to
some of the veterans looking on. The
barefooted runner Morgan, who won last
year, was favorite, and starting from
scratch got through a big field and
looked all over a winner until he stopped.
During his passage through the crowd he
was freely elbowed and once grabbed by
the arm. He pulled up badly spiked.
What would have happened if he had
won can only be conjectured, since these
are drab days. In the golden prime of
the game Morgan, if some of the lads
in the field failed to stop him, would
have been mobbed as he was breasting
the worsted.
* ' * * *
“Lancaster Park” ; The M.L. cricket
heads have been ruefully considering the
balance sheet of the Maryleboners’ tour.
The loss on the trip is given at well over
£2OOO, though whether the profits of the
Australian games, which were to be
handed to the All-Blacks, have been
considered is not stated. Bad weather
had a lot to do with the deficit, though
the performances of the visitors were at
times disappointing. On the other hand,
the home players did better than on any
previous occasion of the kind, and had
none the best of the luck in the drawn
matches.
* 3= * ■ *
“Aigburth”: The 1936 Wisden’s is
loud in its praises of the amended l.b.w.
law.. Many opponents of the change
have been converted, bowlers have been
helped, pad play lessened and umpires
assisted in their duties. In first-class
matches last season, of 1560 l.b.w. deci-
sions against the batsmen 483 were under
the amended law. There was a definite
reduction in scoring also, and the game
was generally livened up and more
matches brought to a definite finish. All
that is excellent reading, but many will
ask, as The Bulletin did two seasons
ago, why the amendments should benefit
the off-break bowler only, ignoring the
practitioner who turns in the other way
and suffers more from pad obstruction.
s|; v *l*
“Pish-Tush”: N.S.W. Acting-Premier
Mick Bruxner is the latest to release that
moth-eaten wheeze about sport being the
greatest of influences in binding the
nations in bonds of brotherhood. Half
a century or so ago, when only Britain
and some of the Dominions met in sport-
ing contests, comparative peace and in-
ternational amity were the rule. To-day,
when every nation is given over to sports
which were once regarded as peculiarly
British, international bitterness and hatred
were never more evident. Even within
the Empire sport has been responsible
for much bad blood. One has only to
read some of the remarks of the British
press of the ’eighties on the grab-all atti-
tude of Australian “professional” cricket-
ers to realise that. The bodyline brawl
was nothing in comparison.


r
/r
L>
r;
v
i
REED
ms 4
o
Collins Street
MELBOURNE- Cl
Phone 9010
-ENJOY£ APPRECIATE
THE DEFT /EBVICE
At the very first step into
“Scott’s” you sense the wis-
dom of your choice .of the
hotel at which to stay whilst
in Melbourne.
And YOUR experience will
be that of generation after
generation of many of Aus-
tralia’s most notable families
—that of outstanding comfort,
perfection of service and the
added advantage of central
location.
r\
“Scott’s” ha
reputation of
most of Me
dentlal hotels.
deed, th
n
fore
the
bei
re
u
n
Inclusive Tariff—
or Room Only
as desired
T ele g rams
and Cables:
“Scottsotel,”
Melbourne.
Phone:
Cent. 9010.
Twelve
L i n e s.
n
pr
Breakfast,
Luncheon,
Dinner
a la Carte
1 W
o
I
IT
t
a
A
fi
\
v
U.-L
i
3
Ci WO/TELtIC/ FOU GtNtkATION/


mm
I
m
aSS
WBB
DUAI I T V SIW 11 18 91
BATTE RIES
(JumM m a UiUa -l/u o/tltf
§ $ $
V 504
FOR
ADIO • MOTOR CYCLES - HOME LIGHTING
MA o { 6 t VtS I A BATTERY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LID. SVONEY•MELBOURNE•BRISBANI•PIBI H • A U C K I A N D • W E I L I N G I 0 N • 0 U N E 0 I N.
From good garages everywhere , or from these central distributors .•
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales: Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia. . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G, Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
West Australia . . Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Perth;
Coventry Motor Replacements, Ltd., Perth
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington. . .
Auckland. . . .
Christchurch .
Dunedin
New Plymouth:
Wanganui . . .
Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.).Ltd.
Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.).Ltd.
Seymour & Turnbull
Vesta Battery Co. ( Aust.), Ltd.;
J. Brunton, Ltd.
Newton King, Ltd.
Colonial Battery Co.
Gisborne. . . . Butcher and Meyrick, Ltd.
Napier Bissell Electrical Co.
Hastings .... C. Torr, Ltd.
Manawatu . . . Dawick’s Electrical Services
Oamaru .... G. T. Gillies
Timaru Canterbury Farmers Co-op.
Whangarei . . Snow Bros.
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST:
Malaya—Philippine Islands Brinkman & Co. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.): Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands Marlows, Ltd., Suva; Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
V 304


Sty
%
I*B*
sgs
Bias
i«l
BE9 8
llll'i
lIHIW
fflM
BBS
■■IIHIU
O
MELBOURNE
Located beside Melbourne Town Hall, the
Victoria is Australia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Unrivalled cater-
ing. Moderate “Room Only” Tariff:
Singles, 4/- to VC ; Doubles, 8/- to 16/-
per day. Write Department
Cn/ CV? HI for free illustrated
/he^IiSAA/ booklet.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
d
PACIFIC FORESTS LTD.
’Phone, Write or Call for Any Information re Shares in
the Above Company:
HODSONS INVESTMENTS Limited
INVESTMENT BANKERS,
PACIFIC HOUSE
249 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
’Phone; 82892.
(All Departments .)
INQUIRIES INVITED ABOUT STOCKS AND SHARES
BOTH QUOTED AND UNQUOTED.
•.vTV»£,
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Imported £
Australians are familiar with the
meretricious delights of living in a fool’s
paradise built of overseas borrowed
money. Before 1893 private investors and
financial concerns were the builders.
Banks, building societies and what not
sprang up on short notice, borrowed
amazing amounts of money in England
and Scotland, and in many cases went
unpleasantly broke when the lenders
wanted their money back.
After the Great War Governments were
the principals. Between 1920 and 1929
just on £2OO million sterling was bor-
rowed overseas, the Australian market
finding another £lOO million. A welter of
London and U.S.A. loans at high interest
immediately preceded the slump.
Australians were assured that for a
young country to develop it had to get
external financial help. But as much of
the borrowing represented credit for the
purchase of overseas food, clothing and
luxuries that could easily have been made
here, and some of it the marking-up of
our interest bill, its assistance in develop-
ing the country wasn’t anything like what
the debt figures suggest. That the money
on the whole was unwisely expended
shows up in the fact that much of the in-
terest bill is met from taxation, though the
borrowing was ostensibly for “reproduc-
tive” works. Except where converted to
lower rates the interest cost on sterling
loans is now 25 p.c. higher than at date
of flotation.
A London financial journal has sug-
gested that the Commonwealth’s present
position indicates probable resumption of
London borrowing. Some incurable
Micawbers in this country are of a simi-
lar frame of mind. But the main excuse
for Government borrowing, in Australia
or overseas, at present rises from a Bud-
get position which, taken throughout the
Commonwealth, is still unsatisfactory.
No banker would, lend money to a pri-
vate concern in such circumstances with-
out making strict stipulations as to how
the business was to be conducted in
future. Our politicians won’t be told,
though the Commonwealth Bank tries
hard.
It is depressing enough to try to visual-
ise public finance and the per capita taxa-
tion, say, 10 years hence, even if public
borrowing is restricted to the limits of
the local market. Australians have
staunchly shouldered their financial bur-
dens to date, even though the responsible
ones may have had little control over the
prodigal Government expenditure of
other years. Many, such as manufac-
turers and motor-owners, actually suf-
fered as a direct result of borrowing-
importing and the spoon-feeding of in-
solvent “works,” and are penalised in-
directly through present crippling taxa-
tion. Now to follow the “easy” course
of further borrowing to the full extent
of our hardly-established credit would be
insanity.
It is just as well to be circumspect
about suggestions from overseas people
who would thrust loan money on us.
Very often such a policy is favored by
a section in Britain which doesn t lend us
the money, but which hopes to send us
its manufactures when British finan-
ciers are persuaded to arrange the loan.
Even when sponsored by British ex-
porters, overseas borrowing may be a
shortsighted policy from their own point
of view. Our external interest bill of more
than £2O millions sterling a year means
that we have to cut that much out of our
overseas purchases if we are to pay tor
our imports with current exports. It we
increase the debt (and imports) in one
year, the extra interest means smaller
buying power in later years.
The London money market, so far as
Australia is concerned, should be left to
private borrowers. They have to make
their businesses pay, and can’t tax other
concerns out of existence if they don t.
At the same time, if it can be raised
nearly as cheaply, even private enter-
prise would be wise to obtain Australian
finance, as Australian money is more
likely to be spent on Australian goods.
A new Commonwealth loan is pending.
Nearly all internal loans these days are
for “works,” Budget deficits and so
forth; under the Premiers’ Plan and
subsequent legislation the due date of
all existing loans
was shifted on a bit
—the earliest is 1938.
So the Loan Coun-
cil doesn’t have to
worry about conver-
sions or redemptions
for two years. But
there’ll be a swag of
them between 1938
and 1944. With a
national debt of
£1255 millions (£lB6
a head) it behoves
our politicians and
financiers to keep
this country’s credit
as high as possible ;
upon our financial
standing will de-
pend, to a large ex-
tent, th e interest
rate at which we are
able to convert.
Vote-catching shilly-
shally and humbug
at the taxpayer’s ex-
pense won’t help.
* *
Snares in Austra-
lian base metal cos.
kept fairly steady
last week. Broken
Hill South at £5 14s.
gives the highest im-
mediate return
among the silver-
lead group ; it has
the shortest prob-
able life. North
Broken Hill has
steadied just above
£B. Zinc Corp., the
possibilities of which
were pointed out
here months ago,
rose to 86s. follow-
ing the manager’s estimate of a
life exceeding 25 years; the ords.
were at 82s. 6d. last week. Mt. Lyell,
the Tas. copper show, was a penny or
so under 255.
London metal prices during the week
showed little fluctuation. Lead kept
around £l6 sterling, zinc above £l5, and
electrolytic copper was firm at £4l 10s.
* ■■!= *
During the fortnight to April 15 Mt.
Lyell (Tas.), because of the recent rains
at Lake Margaret, was able to dispense
with the emergency supply of power
obtained from the State Commission.
For the two weeks 449 tons of electro-
lytic copper was produced, making 6991
tons since Oct. 1. Somewhat lower-grade
ore is being treated this year, but mining
is cheaper and the price of refined
copper is above £4l (stg.), which, with
the advantages of an Australian market
for a good deal of its production, makes
the return to Mt. Lyell comfortably on
the right side of £5O (Aust.). Every rise
of £1 (stg.) a ton p.a. means, on present
rate of output, an extra 1 p.c. in gross
revenue on Lyell’s capital.
# * * *
All textile cos. continued strong on
Melbourne ’Change last week. Aus-
tralian Knitting Mills rose to 30s. 6d.: it
closes its books to-morrow (30th) to de-
cide who are to participate in the dis-
tribution of 57 Yarra Falls, some Aus-
tral Silk scrip and a little cash for each
100 A.K.M. shares. This stock was men-
tioned here when it was around 28s.
Yarra Falls sold at 415., Prestige ords. at
18s., and Beau Monde at 18s. 3d. There
were no sellers of Holeproof ords., which
firmed noticeably before Easter. In Syd-
ney Lustre ords. were sold around 245.
The Farmers and Settlers’ Co-op. In-
surance Co., is now principally controlled
by the Pearl Assurance Co., of London,
the assets of which exceed £90,000,000
sterling. The F. and S. has been writing
“One thing at a time, please . Cant you see I'm trying
to telephone?"
a good deal more business lately, though
it has been unable to hand anything on
to the new control in the way of profits.
Most of the increased income has gone
out in payments to policy-holders —
£32,613 last year. Assets are mainly
cash and Government stocks. The
Pearl’s business in Australia is princi-
pally fire and accident, though in Britain
it does a large life business. The link-up
between the two cos. should eventually
strengthen the position of shareholders
and policy-holders in both.
Selfridges (Aust.), Ltd., Sydney, which
sought public capital in 1935, showed a
profit of £5873 for the year to Jan. 31
last. No div. was paid, the directors de-
ciding to conserve the funds. Paid capi-
tal at balance day was £96,713, much of
it received towards the end of the fiscal
year. The co. was one of the most recent
to enter the chain-store field, and up to
the present its chain is rather short. Four
new branches were opened during the
year.
* * *
Wheat ran up to 3s. lid. on trucks,
Williamstown, last week, being back to
the figure of exactly three months ago.
For a while it looked as though quotes
would go higher still, but, following re-
ports of more favorable seasonal condi-
tions in North America, prices slackened
overseas, and by the middle of the week
quotations at Australian ports were down
about a penny. Growers on reasonably-
good areas should be doing comfortably
if their finances are in order.
* * * *
Some banks financing wheat-farmers
who are in pretty deeply find un-
settling differences in various growers’
costs —even as regards cultivating
and planting. Ploughing and sowing
—disregarding fertiliser —may figure
50 p.c. higher in one man’s costs than
in another’s. It has been indicated that
where a bank runs a “cropping account,’’
putting up the money for cultivation and
planting, many a client is apt to grow
lax on the question of costs. Major
Douglas would go further than the banks
in financing producers such as these. He
would pay them whatever the wheat cost.
In the end, if banks know anything, the
inefficient farmer (or any incompetent
producer) would go further than Major
Douglas.
* * * *
Howard Smith ords. have been a dis-
appointment to holders. They sold be-
low 17s. last week, after running up to
around par a month or so ago. The div.
(kept at 24 p.c.) was disappointing.
Though the co. has some excellent assets
—shares in Australian Steam, Australian
Sugar and about 200,000 in B.H.P. —it is
overcapitalised, principally to the extent
of its coal, blue-metal and cement hold-
ings. Though these, of course, are of
some value, they aren’t dividend-produc-
ing, and it will be many years before this
section of Howard Smith’s investment
portfolio is likely to give a reasonable
return. Some sections of the N. S. Wales
coal industry are in a desperate plight.
* * * *
A dividend of 6d. a share next month
and annual distributions of 2s. (20 p.c.)
were suggested by Colin Fraser, chairman
of Triton (W.A.), at the co.’s annual
meeting in Melbourne last week. The
10s. shares are around 13s. 3d. Paid
Capital is £480,000 ; this sum has covered
all capital expenditure, including £175,000
in cash and shares for the property.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Investment shares were strong. Dunlop
Perdriau recovered to 165., and Austra-
lia Glass stepped up to 87s. G. J.
Coles was also in demand at 745. 6d. Among
stocks mentioned on this page from time to
time, Australasian Paper, Adelaide Steam,
Broken Hill Prop., Gordon, and Gotch,
National Bank, Yarra Falls and Prestige
were sought after at firm prices.
Waldas Shoes, listed the previous week
(Cranwells placed a large number of these
shares before the co. went on ’Change), after
opening around 40s. for the ords., sold to
445. on Thursday, closing on Friday with
buyers at 435. 6d. and sellers at 48s.
Bendigo cos. continued to be the star turn
in the mining sharemarket. Central Nell
Gwynnes were at 265. on Friday, while
Ironbarks, the source of considerable excite-
ment two months ago, rose 3s. 6d. on Thurs-
day (to Bs. 6d.), and to 10s. 6d. on Friday.
Further high values have been reported on the
1528 ft. level, and present underground work
should shortly give a more reliable idea of
what the discovery is worth. Wattle Gully
was strong again (up 25., to 19s. 6d., on
Thursday, and to 20s. 3d. on Friday); bears
appear to be paying for their sins—the stock
is rather closely held.
Cocks Eldorado, Gordon and Morning
Star (the largest gold-producer in the State)
were somewhat weaker. Fms continued to
slip. Upper Watuts were slightly weaker;
Irowats strengthened on Friday.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Riff Raff”
The New Harlow, as she is headlined,
is new only as regards the subdued hair-
tint. In all else she is the same Harlow
who storms and shrieks in a crashing
crescendo of domestic rows. Had the
scenario writers kept to the tempo they
set in the earlier sequences, all might
have been well; but Hollywood hates to
let the opportunity of bellowdrama
escape, and so the expectant mother
must be committed to the cold hard
bunk in the women’s prison. From then
on the film sinks to muffled sobs, broken
only by a few more brawls. Wisecracks,
mostly of ancient lineage, rain thick and
fast, while those adjectives will also serve
exactly to describe the speech of the
principals.
The plot is a rambling affair dealing
in waterfront strikes and strife among
Jessie Matthews in “First a Girl,” at
Sydney Embassy .
the sort of people who give the film its
title. Spencer Tracy as the hero who
marries Jean Harlow and thus provides
her with a steady quarrels-partner is ad-
mirable, while Una Merkel gives an
excellent character study of a harassed
mother and loyal sister. J. Farrell
McDonald as the union leader gives his
usual sound performance. The affair may
be summed up as a series of sustained
shrieks intermingled with patches of good
acting. At Sydney Mayfair.
M.G.M. Featurettes
Some diverting “shorts” make up the
supporting programme at Sydney May-
fair.
A Fitzpatrick Traveltalk in color gives
an all-too-brief glimpse of life among the
Mayan Indians in Guatemala, where
these followers of an ancient religion
burn their incense on the steps of Chris-
tian temples.
The strenuous game of basketball, as
played by experts, comes under both the
fast and slow cameras, and proves that
it is not so easy as it looks. There are
some fine action shots in this.
An uproarious Thelma Todd comedy
of a pressgirl covering a hospital case
raises some laughs, mainly owing to some
good comedy by Patsy Kelly as a bogus
nurse.
“Private Party on Catalina Island” is
a musical extravaganza, done in the way
that only Hollywood can do it. It is in
Technicolor, and shows various film
celebrities seeking temporary surcease
from the cares of the “set,” and dozens
of gorgeous girls assisting, with a mini-
mum of raiment, at the piratical func-
tions. “Buddy” Rogers leads a dance
band which is only tolerable because of
the background of beauties.
“The Littlest Rebel”
The greatest handicap on reconstruc-
tions of the American Civil War period
by cinema companies domiciled in Cali-
fornia —the impossibility of finding whites
or darkies who can convincingly repro-
duce the speech and manners of the Old
South —is strongly in evidence in this
latest vehicle for the talents of Shirley
Temple, and in addition the story badly
strains the possibilities.
Miss Temple’s pa and ma (John
Boles and Karen Morley) own a
cotton plantation in Virginia, evidently
not far from Richmond.' But from
the outset of the war the planta-
tion is in territory occupied by the
Union Army; the house is frequently
raided and looted, and finally destroyed
by fire during a battle. Pa is continu-
ally hopping back home for lachrymose
interviews with wife and daughter and
escaping the enemy (personified by Jack
Holt as a colonel) only through the con-
stant watchfulness and benevolence of his
devoted niggers. Finally, pa is captured
when attending ma’s funeral —she suc-
cumbs through lung trouble. The kindly
Union colonel not only lets him go but
gives him a uniform and a pass, so that
he may get through the Union lines and
place his little daughter in safety with
relatives in Richmond. But, alas! the
plan miscarries, and both pa and his
benefactor are sentenced to be shot at
dawn.
Accompanied by a faithful darky
(Bill Robinson, the tap-dancing expert),
Miss Temple goes to Washington, inter-
views President Lincoln, who, after shar-
ing an apple with his little visitor, signs
two free pardons with a huge quill pen.
Miss Shirley returns in triumph to con-
tinue entertaining the enemy troops with
songs and dances. Pathos and sentiment
are laid on with a broad trowel, and even
the usually cheerful .Miss Temple fre-
quently lets the tear downfall. Previewed
at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“The Ghost Goes West”
It is the ghost of Murdoch Glourie,
doomed to haunt Glourie Castle nightly
until he wipes out the disgrace attending
A family group from “Charlie Chan at the Circus,” at Sydney
Capitol.
his demise by forcing the chief of the
McLaglan clan (the Glouries’ heredi-
tary enemies) to apologise.
Two centuries flit by, and the task is
still unaccomplished. An American mil-
lionaire (Eugene Pallette) buys the castle,
lock, stock, barrel and ghost, and trans-
ports the lot to California. He takes
with him the last of the Glouries (Robert
Donat, who doubles as the ghost) to
supervise the reconstruction. The ghost
walks on shipboard on the voyage over,
the incident becomes front-page news,
and New York gives the spectre one of
its celebrated welcomes. Follows a tussle
between the purchaser of the castle and
a business rival (they’re both in the chain-
store business). Rival wishes to discredit
the ghost, and is assisted by the fact that
the shade, once transplanted, refuses to
walk. The living Glourie therefore is
pressed into service to impersonate his
ancestor, but his necessity for doing so
is obviated by the rival chain-store per-
Grade Fields in “Queen of Hearts,” at
Sydney Lyceum.
son disclosing that he is the last lineal
descendant of the clan McLaglan. The
ghost pursues him until he gives the
required apology, and then goes up aloft
for ever, leaving his descendant to marry
the daughter of the purchaser of the
castle (Jean Parker). Donat is able to
impart a faint Doric flavor to the ghost’s
utterances, and the fantastic yarn is
warmed by plenty of humor. Previewed
at Film House, Sydney.
“The Trail of the Lonesome Pine”
This is a good old melodrama of the
days of the silents, done over again with
every modern improvement. Through-
out the Technicolor process has been
employed, and it is claimed that this is
the first outdoor drama to be filmed com-
pletely in color —“Becky Sharp,” of
course, was practically entirely a studio
production. The story of “The Trail”
deals with a feud of mountain folk, and
the locale chosen was a spot in the pine-
clad Sierras, 10,000 ft. above sea level.
This effective scenic setting has been
most beautifully reproduced. There has
been no effort in any direction to import
garish color. The
characters wear the
browns and greys
suitable to the
farmers and rail-
wa y construction
people they repre-
sent ; indoor set-
tings are rough
and dingy, as they
should be. The re-
sult is that the
glorious landscape
of mountain, lake
and forest, seen in
all four seasons
and varying its
tints profoundly in
each, has a quality
r>i reality missing in
more artificial pro-
ductions.
The piece is well
acted. Sylvia Syd-
ney, Beulah Bondi, Henry Fonda and Fred
Stone as illiterate hill folk and Fred
Mac Murray and Nigel Bruce as a couple
of engineers have most to do, and do it
capably, and minor parts are equally well
filled. Action is brisk —the feud between
the Tollivers and the Falins is a willing
affair, marked by battle, murder and
sudden death—and the happy ending
leaves no loose ends hanging out. Pre-
viewed at Paramount Theatrette, Sydney.
“Boulder Dam”
The story has as its setting the con-
struction works on the great dam that
straddles the Colorado. A few fine shots
of the dam are given, but many oppor-
tunities for splendid photographic effects
have been neglected. “Rusty” Noonan
(Ross Alexander), a rather nasty bit of
work, passes his garage boss a straight
right on being fired. Boss dies where
he lies and Rusty bolts. At Boulder
Dam he is befriended by Ann Van-
garick (Patricia Ellis), a cabaret singer.
(Yes, she croons.) The father, a fore-
man at the dam, gets Rusty a job, and
under the influence of Eros the young
man blossoms forth as the answer to a
construction-boss’s prayer. He tops his
newly-acquired affection for work with
a penchant for saving lives, and the Big
Boss makes him a foreman. But a rival
for the hand of Ann (Lyle Talbot)
learns Rusty’s Awful Secret and tells
him to be on his way again if he wants
to dodge the hot squat. Then a cable
breaks when Mr. Talbot is flying-foxing
over the dam. Rusty effects a heroic
rescue, and then surrenders himself to
justice. The construction co., grateful for
all the death-compensation claims Rusty
has obviated, promises to pay for the
defence,, and Ann swears to wait by the
Great Iron Gates for her lover’s release
if the jury says the wrong thing. Though
its material is fustian the film has its
moments. Ross Alexander gives a
creditable performance, and Lyle Talbot
viilainises, as ever, in a mildly reason-
able manner. At Sydney Capitol.
“Charlie Chan at the Circus”
Quite the best of its series. All the
resources of a big circus and menagerie
have been exploited to provide settings
and atmosphere. The proprietor of the
circus is killed, apparently by an escaped
gorilla; a lady acrobat is dashed to the
earth when one rope of her trapeze is
shot through by a rifle bullet; a huge
snake disturbs the repose of Mr. Charles
Chan. The entire Chan family (num-
bering 14), with emphasis on “number
Sonnie Hale in “First a Girl.”
one son,” figure in the fantasy; also
a couple of dwarfs, seen by Sydney in
the flesh at the R.A.S. Though the
events of the fantasia are bizarre the
plot hangs together, and the solution of
the mysteries is ingenious. Warner
Gland’s characterisation of the urbane
Charlie has by now become second
nature, and the supporting cast is excel-
lent, particularly the strongly-American-
ised young Chinese who plays Chan's
eldest son. His “Aw, parp! ” is as much
a feature of the show as Chan’s tele-
graphically terse aphorisms. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Koenigsmark”
The screen version of Pierre Benoit’s
novel is a triumph for Continental pro-
duction, marked as it is by fine acting,
effective settings, good photography and,
above all, artistry of direction. On any


M
m
mm
I m
M
' <>yMVAvMC<hO^
“As safe as a Ford V-8”
s
mt
SAFETY comes first in the
Ford V-8 because Ford has
an obligation to the public to
build a safe car. Cost is not
counted —it’s a matter of find-
ing what is right and best and
building it into the car. Ford
V-8 was the first economically-
priced car to give you the extra
protection of all-steel closed
bodies, and now In the 1936 V-8
models Safety Glass is provided
all round (in all windows as
well as windscreen). In addition
the V-8 has super safety brakes
of the long-tested, sure-acting
mechanical design, and easier
steering and gear changing. Ford'
Centre-poise riding combined
with deep, restful upholstery
ensures maximum comfort with
safety under all driving con-
ditions. With the unrivalled
performance and economy of its
famous V-8 engine, the dis-
tinctive beauty of its appear-
ance and all-round safety, Ford
V-8 for 1936 offers outstanding
value. Your local Ford dealer
will be glad to demonstrate—
ask also for particulars of
the easy purchase terms.
FOR 1336 *
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA PTT. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F 69 24. V
score the film is difficult to fault. Elissa
Landi, as the Princess Aurora, gives one
of her best performances. Mock heroics
and sloppy sentimentalism are entirely
absent, and the long adhesive labial
clinch at the fade-out has been dispensed
with.
The young Princess Aurora is forced
into unwilling marriage with the Grand
Duke Rudolf of Belgravia. Her middle-
aged husband, discouraged by his wife’s
coldness, leaves for German East Africa,
and when word is received that he has
died there of fever she is left to rule.
Her husband’s brother, the Archduke
Frederick, makes
advances, but she
repulses him. Then
a young French
professor comes.
He discovers a
secret room in the
castle; exploring,
he finds Rudolph’s
skeleton. The Prin-
cess Aurora and
the young man join
forces against Fred-
erick, whom they
suspect. A battle
of wits follows, and
just as they com-
plete the gather-
ing of evidence
sufficient to con-
vict Frederick
of fratricide the
war of 1914-18
breaks out. Fred-
erick orders the
Frenchman’s arrest.
Aurora counter-
mands it, conducts
him to the border,
returns and exposes Frederick, who
suicides. The story ends with her
abdication. Previewed at Sydney Prince
Edward.
“White Lilac”
A “supporting” film at Melbourne
Athenaeum with far more sand than
cement. Claude Dampier produces a
reinforcement of comedy, and the
audience collapses into ridicule at the
noisy hysteria of blonde Judy Gunn and
brunette Gwen Gill and at the amours of
Leslie Perrins. The blonde spends a few
minutes in gaol with the strong arms of
Basil Sydney as protection, but the
brunette, who is the only daughter of the
chief police inspector, has been peeping a
jealous eye through the keyhole on the
scene of the murder andi weepingly con-
fesses that the revolver went off by
accident.
Some First Nights
Eileen Joyce added to her Sydney
laurels by her performance of Rach-
maninoff’s C Minor Concerto with the
State Symphony Orchestra. The com-
poser, as celebrated for his prowess at
the keyboard as for his creative genius,
intended the pianoforte to revel in its
strength in this work, and bravura pas-
sages, often of considerable complexity,
are frequent. Miss Joyce rode the storm
with a firm rein, and the clarity of her
playing was such that even in heavily
orchestrated passages, fortissimo or
pianissimo, the voice of the piano was
distinct. Dr. Bainton’s baton held a just
balance between soloist and orchestra,
and the soloist needed no more than
justice, for she commands a good volume
of tone. Responding to the insistent de-
mand of the crowded Town Hall
audience, Miss Joyce gave as an encore
number the Hess transcription of a
Bach chorale that figured in her initial
recital.
The orchestral numbers without piano
were Elgar’s arrangement of Bach’s Fan-
tasia and Fugue in C Minor, Borodin’s
Second Concerto (a gloomy work, but
grandly gloomy), an arrangement of three
of Granados’s “Pictures by Goya” dance
movements (written for piano), and, as
a grand finale, the “Ride of the Val-
kyries.” The orchestra continues to im-
prove, and is beginning to show delicacy
as well as firmness.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Eileen Joyce’s broadcast recital on
Friday night gave color to the story that
she bounded into fame owing to the
fortuitous discovery that she could make
a wonderfully good gramophone record.
Her playing was transmitted without
loss of quality, the smallest variations
of light and shade, apparently, being
faithfully conveyed. The short pro-
gramme included a sonata (as Handel
or Scarlatti used the term) by one of
the many seventeenth-century Italian
composers whose graceful works are
now being rescued from oblivion, a
pleasant piece notable for effective use
of repeated notes. Schumann’s “Ara-
besque” was played more to the letter
4han in the spirit, and the pianist was
more interesting when cleaving a sure
passage through the shoals and quick-
sands of Dohnanyi’s C Major Rhapsody
and F Minor Capriccio. Dohnanyi,
who inherits Beethoven’s indifference to
the comfort of the executant, is the joy
of the complete technician, and a corn-
plete technician Miss Joyce undoubt-
edly is.
* * * “**
S. Ansky’s “The Dybbuk,” presented
by the Independent Theatre at Sydney
“Shade,” etching by Sydney Ure Smith, in the Macleod
Gallery, Sydney.
Savoy, is a Jewish drama of the six-
teenth century in which material and
spiritual themes run parallel. The
action takes place in Brainitz, an Eastern
European village. Channon, a poor
student, is in love with Leah, the daughter
of Sender, a hostile merchant. He falls
dead. Having left the mortal plane in
disgrace, Channon becomes a Dybbuk—
a lost spirit who in order to find peace
must shelter in a human body. Natur-
ally he selects Leah. The Dybbuk is
exorcised. But Leah dies and her soul
is united to that of her predestined lover.
When produced overseas “The
Dybbuk” created great interest, which is
understandable, for the play Opens a
little-known page of history, possesses
poetic beauty and is full of drama. The
Independents, coached by Frank Harvey,
gave an intelligent and moving perform-
ance, William Gates, as Channon, stood
out. Also excellent was John Alden as
a mysterious messenger who came and
went at the Dybbuk’s pleasure and dis-
turbed the proceedings with terse home-
truths. Doris Fitton played Leah.
Alfred Race was a rabbi, and useful sup-
port was afforded by William Rees,
Maxwell Osbiston, Clive Coppard, Ger-
trude Johns and Dorothy Whiteley.
*J* 4* 4*
J. W. Heming’s “Through Four
Windows,” done by the Australian
Reperforians at Emerson Hall, Sydney,
is a bald bellowdrama wrapped round a
manufacturing township in which com-
petition has meant the closing of
works. Four acts unfold an industrial
renegade’s smouldering hate towards his
late employer—an enmity turned to mur-
derous intent when a compromising sit-
uation develops between redshirt’s daugh-
ter and employer’s offspring. Gossips,
crooks and a degenerate whose chief
occupation is prying through other
people’s windows figure in the thing, and
there are jokes at the expense of half-
wits. “The Listener” preceded the longer
play. Neither was well acted.
Current Artbursts
A sojourn in the tropics has effected
a revolution in the technique of Mary
Edwards, who used to see all nature in
pale pastel tints. Her gleanings in Java
and Noumea (mostly portraits and still-
lifes), shown at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, are vigorous in color and as
pleasing as they are vigorous. This critic
liked best “Javanese in Yellow,” a very
skilful essay in full color, and found
charm also in “Tave in Black,” “Aonise”
and “Nyipa of Lifou,” all portraits of
dark-skinned ladies —the first two Javan-
ese and the third a Polynesian belle who
carries her head very proudly. The
backgrounds in these compositions are
worthy of attention. A feature of the
show is that many of the frames were
designed and carved by the artist. They
certainly suit her pictures better than
the narrow white borders that enclose
some of the offerings and give them an
appearance of heaviness that might
otherwise have been escaped.
“Wire Brush” I am in agreement with
“Garrick, A. 8.,” on the horrors of beards
grown after years of shaving (B. 22/4/’36).
When the British got to Bloemfontein
during the Boer War it was announced
that beards would be permitted to all
ranks. During the long wait there full
advantage of the concession was taken.
My cobber in the section grew a .mon-
strosity which entirely altered ray opinion
... r , , . ~ .
of h ™ £ ° rmed du ™« y ear ? ot ? X *J\
ln £oo < ball and cncke£
teams - -J, took avoiding him as much
as Possible, and was surprised to find he
was doing the same as regarded myself,
Then one day, while filling a bucket from
a dam, I saw myself in the water. An
agonising shave followed, after I had
combed the entire company for a look-
ing-glass.
BUSH BALLADRY
COMPETITION
A Fortnight’s Extension.
Entries for the Bush Balladry
Competition have been pouring in;
it is too soon to determine their
quality, but in quantity they are
fully up to expectation. However,
out of consideration for competitors
at a distance, it has been decided to
extend the closing time for another
fortnight. Entries will be accepted
up to May 16, instead of April 30,
the date originally fixed.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
3 tj
S 3
3J
miio l* 31 &&
ai 3 Hjh
!»:.|t
ni
!' d
i
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
3ATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railvva,v Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
ROMANOFF
and RED KE T A
CAVIAR
CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold l>y Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr • F W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
f
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Saturday, the twenty-first anniversary
of Anzac, was one of the bluest days in
memory. Up into the blue terraces of
air drifted the sharp scent of rosemary,
but long before the city’s buttonhole and
lapel were decorated with the green
sprigs the rosemary of the heart had
brought fifteen thousand to the dawn
ceremony at the Cenotaph. As the stars
paled, through the thin, cold air, into the
grey shadows of Martin-place, the vigil-
keepers came. Some, indeed, had been
there all night, alone with their memories
and the scent of the flowers already
mounting thick about the feet of the
bronze soldier and sailor. Here glowed
the Red Cross standard, red roses against
the white. Here were pink and blue and
yellow blooms ; here were laurels, and
palms, and rising suns. One great
wreath of laurel, springing from a rising
sun, was topped by a crown. Across it
was scrolled “Lest We Forget.” It was
from the totally disabled and permanently
injured soldiers.
Behind their old colors (and weren’t
some of the standard-bearers big fel-
lows!), to the old marching tunes, fifty
thousand soldiers stepped as they might
have done in the brave days of old when
waistlines were slim and shoulders
weren’t stooped from desk work. Heads
bared, hat on heart, they passed the Ceno-
taph. “Pack up your troubles in your
old kit bag!” counselled the bands.
Smiling response to the waves of cheers
that greeted their units, the vast company
marched down Martin-place, through
the city and came to the Domain.
If fifty thousand were in the proces-
sion, all the city must have been in the
Domain waiting for the great open-air
service which is so typically Sydney.
Mothers and fathers were here with the
family and the inevitable suitcase (later
there would be a picnic lunch). Grand-
fathers and grandmothers came with
sturdy grandsons, with granddaughters a
graceful twenty or so, plucked of eye-
brow, scarlet of lip, but with hearts
in the right place, as could be heard
when they joined in prayer and hymn.
Here were Junior Red Crossers, very
crisp and white and fresh from their own
service of song. Here were ex-service
men who hadn’t joined in the procession
but who proudly wore their medals. The
sky was blue, the grass and trees were
green, the standards were crisp in the
breeze, the Union Jack and Australia’s
flag blew brave above the dais. “Lead,
Kindly Light,” sang the multitude, the
great volume faint on the wide morning.
Lastly they sang Kipling’s “Recessional,”
the bands played Chopin’s funeral march,
the bugler sounded the “Last Post.”
Can we forget?
Thousands went out to the Show-
ground on Saturday night to see the gee-
gees dance the maypole. They saw other
things, such as a mannequin parade of
tanks, the taking of pillboxes, air-bomb-
ing and such items of a grand military
tattoo, but nothing was quite so pleasing
as the mounted maypole. The horses
serpentined, spiralled, double-circled and
plaited in perfect rhythm to the R.A.A.
band. The movement like the ladies’
chain of the lancers evoked the wildest
applause. All the stands and the lawn
in front of the members’ stand would
have made a sardine-tin seem almost
uninhabited.
Some wise women had brought camp-
stools with them and placed these just
inside the stand railings ; others sat on
the ledge in front of the members’ stand.
Small boys and girls were there ; so was
the baby. The bright white lights that
beat on the arena showed up the uni-
forms of the cadet corps from The King’s
School, Parramatta —the beginning of
Australia’s land defence. They beat
upon the “riflemen’s green” of the N.S.W.
Rifles of 1860, the equipment of the
Sudan and South African contingents
and of the Anzacs. Tableaux, bands,
bombs, marching that went with
machine-like precision and spirited horse-
manship kept the multitudes interested
till eleven o’clock.
Alison McDougall, author of The Sil-
ver Dog, has just returned to Sydney
after three years in Europe, The author
is intensely interested in the contrasts
between the Old World and the New, and
during her time abroad lived in Spain and
visited Austria, Hungary and the south of
France. Her new book, Wind in Spring,
which is to be published in London in
September, contrasts the cultural, politi-
cal and economic problems of Australia
with those of Europe. Alison is staying
at her mother’s home at Pittwater, where
the entire McDougall clan has fore-
gathered to say “welcome home.”
Dayne photo.
Tuckets and trumpets heralded the
arrival of the debs, at the University
Settlement Ball, and on their entry to
the Great Hall the organ, under the
hands of Faunce Allman, poured out
jubilant chords. Each girl was partnered
by an undergraduate to the dais, where
she dropped her curtsy to Chancellor
Mungo MacCallum and his lady. The
nine girls wore white frocks, and their
posies were sweet-peas clustered with
Cecil Brunner roses. The wife of Pro-
fessor Harold Dew, who presented the
girls, had a pointed train to her hibiscus-
pink satins. Her gloves followed the new
mode, and were colored to tone with
her frock:
Before the presentation of the debu-
tantes there was a reception in the Great
Hall, when Miss I. Fidler, president of
the Uni. Settlement, helped the Mungo
MacCallums to greet the army of pro-
fessors, academics and just plain, honest-
to-goodness dancers. The “Colonial”
Secretary and Mrs. Chaffey were there to
watch Sheila make her bow. Mrs. Chaffey
girdled her brown lace drapings with
gold ; daughter Laura rustled in black
taffetas. Professor Fawsitt brought his
wife, who shimmered in rose-and-silver
metal weave; Dr. Elma Sandford
Morgan was impressive in coral moire ;
Mrs. Greg McGirr, in Parma violet velvet,
brought a party of undergrad, friends of
daughter Beatrice.
Dr. Walter Burfitt and Mrs. Burfitt
came on from the Royal Society’s dinner.
Mrs. Burfitt’s frock was of vellum Chan-
tilly lace; Esmey Burfitt, just back from
her travels, was pictorial in silver. The
literary Lady Hosie, from England, came
with Mrs. B. Muscio. Her choice was
black velvet with a long pointed
train; gold lace swirled about Mrs.
Muscio. Mrs. W, A. Selle outlined the
neckline of her black taffeta with red
camellias; Mrs. Ranald Peden girdled
and clasped her bronze lace with gold.
The real business of the night was li-
the Union ballroom, and thither, after
Dignity had had its due, the earnest
won’t-go-home-till-mornings got into their
stride.
To help ease the growing pains of
North Sydney’s Mater Misericordire hos-
pital, the wives of the hon. medical staff
decided to apply a little golden ointment.
They organised a dance at the Manhattan
last week, and, in spite of the downpours
of rain with which it was christened, it
turned out one of the week’s successes.
The wife of Dr. J. E. F. Deakin was
president of the ball, and their table was
circled with doctors and their wives.
Betty and Dorothy Deakin, too, were
with their parents, the one in mist-like
blues, the other in Nile green. Mrs. Dan
Kelly, whose surgeon husband was
associated all his medical life with the
Mater, was in a party that included Dr.
James Hughes.- Pretty Dr. Sheila
Drescher was a happy dancer in carna-
tion-pink chiffons. Secretary Mrs. A. P*
Gunning wore rose-shot taffeta that
flashed with diamente.
Flags were flown and furlongs of carpet
unrolled for the Dangar-Hickson wedding
at Singleton. The town could hardly
have been more excited over a visit of
a prince of the blood.. Bowmans,
Merewethers, Bartons and Gordons
poured into the place, and the Roy
Bells (Dangar clan) arrived from Esk in
Queensland. Some of them who had
come to Sydney for the Hubert Fairfax
pre-wedding do had actually trekked all
the way home and back again for the
nuptials. Talk about the Forsyte saga
after that! The big party of the night
before was given by the Binnies, and this
roped in most of the wedding guests
from town who were being billeted
overnight in the district.
Blue and gold carpets, rich in the high
sunshine, stretched from the steps of the
grey stone church on to the roadway ;
more blue and gold covered the path to
the hall in the church grounds where the
lunch (locally catered) was spread. This
was none of your buffet affairs; every
guest got knees well under the trestles
for the assault on the oyster morny and
the turkey. Enough champagne was un-
corked to float the Queen Mary, and
there were only two speeches. Bishop
Batty spoke his eulogy in a country
churchyard beautifully, and Harry Dan-
gar made one of the best bridegroom
speeches on record. His bride, in her
pearly satins and iridescent veil, was
worthy of the effort.
Mrs. Walter C. Hankinson was, before
her marriage last week, Sheila Watson,
second daughter of Government His-
torian Dr. Fred Watson, of Gungahleen,
Canberra. Grandfather James Watson-
was Colonial Treasurer in a Parkes Gov-
ernment (1878-1883). Dorothy Welding
made the portrait.
After the newly-wedded Dangar pair had
departed everybody started to give little
parties, and there was a constant wander-
ing between Bowman, Merewether, Bar-
ton and Gordon groups. The John Reids
gave a dinner party at Newcastle. Harry’s
gift to his bride was more like a lasso than
a rope of pearls. Diamonds, emeralds
and sapphires glittered in the brooches to
the bridesmaids, and groomsmen and
best man now sport gold-and-onyx links
and studs. Mrs. Rodney Dangar’s orchid,
the grape-blue of Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s
frock, the outsize opal given by Rodney
Dangar to sister Mrs. Henshawe (she was
Lady Curtis Bennett), were things com-
mented on at the clan gathering. Presents
were not on view, the Harry Dangars,
who went off on the Aorangi to tour
foreign parts, wisely leaving them in store.
One present, a richly tooled morocco
leather jewel casket set with opals, is
destined to hold the pearls,
Jennie Brenan, the woman responsible
for numerous brilliant J. C. Williamson
ballets, returned from England with an
appointment as organiser for the Royal
Academy of Dancing, London, for Vic-
toria, South Australia and Westralia. She
trained Ivy Shilling, Vera Pearce, Maggie
Dickinson, Madge Elliott and a score of
front-rankers. Following her back to Aus-
tralia came her annual present from
Adeline Genee, this time a quaint antique
patchbox once used by a lady of the
Danish Court. Genee and Jennie were
chums when they were taught dancing to-
gether by Genee’s uncle, and the friend-
ship has lasted a lifetime.
On Saturday afternoon the Kelso
Kings are lending the lovely old gardens
of Quambi, their Woollahra home, for
the fete run in aid of the League of
Service, one of the metropolitan mission
organisations of the Presbyterian Church.
Mrs. C. B. Fairfax, who died recently
at Rocquebrune, France, will be remem-
bered by older Sydneyites as Florence
Frazer, whose father was John Frazer,
M.L.C., a member of the erstwhile
York-street firm of John Frazer and Co.
He died, they say, worth £400,000. Mrs.
Fairfax was a brilliant linguist and
musician, one of the first councillors of
the Women’s College, and one of its
first benefactors. She endowed it with
a scholarship of £lOOO in memory of her
sister Grace. John Frazer founded two
university bursaries and a scholarship in
history. Mrs. Frazer (who was a Miss
Ewan) founded a scholarship at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College ; also one for
the Presbyterian Foreign Mission Fund
and one for theological students. The
Frazer home, Quiraing, Trelawney-street,
Woollahra, is now the home of gynaeco-
logist George Armstrong and his wife,
who is a cousin of the late Mrs. Fairfax.
With beauty and enchantment on our
own doorstep, why do Australians choose
Europe, Asia or Africa for playgrounds?
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who has been holidaying
at the Barrier Reef, tells of days on islands
which are gardens of elusive charm, their
atmosphere one of slumbrous delight
and arcadian felicity. The silver strands,
the deep-blue of the sky, the turquoise
waters of the shining bays, the beauty of
Whitsunday Passage, the friendliness of
the Hugo Brasseys of Dunk Island call
insistently to the traveller to journey
north.
Croydon and Pymble P.L.C. ex-
students shared the Trocadero for their
yearly dance. They had separate official
tables,. Mrs, Ivo Kerr being the presi-
dent of the Croydon committee, Miss
Isabel McKinney leading the Pymble
forces. The principals of the schools held
a sort of unofficial levee, Miss Grace
Mackintosh sustaining meetings and
greetings in sweeping dark-amber velvet,
Miss M. Hamilton’s black-and-gold mate-
lasse being arabesqued in red and grey.
Clifford Love and his lady were among
the revellers, her white gardenias a con-
trast to black crepes. Novelist Flora
Eldershaw arrived in pale-gold lace and
brown velvet. Valerie Moss brought a
party of 42. Her silver-grey chiffons
wore a gay little cape with a high pointed
collar. Lorelei-green chiffons floated
when Isabel McKinney walked. Janet
Vicars covered her pleated white chiffons
with an ermine cape. She went off with
father and mother (the Robert Vicars)
on Saturday in the Orford.
Already the chill of autumn is in the
air, and Mayoress Parkes has decided to
start at once building up the Mayoress’s
Clothing Fund. This is the big cold-
weather job of every citizeness who holds
office as civic hostess. There are almost
enough ex-mayoresses to stock the whole
committee, as was proved at last week’s
meeting. The large-size evening card
party with its picnic supper, which is a
perennial money-raiser, is dated for June
11 ; and in August the Nieuw Holland
will house another jubilation to aid the
fund.
Striking while the iron was hot, the
Mayoress had launched a music party on
the same day as her meeting. Dolly Hol-
lander Moore, who was last year’s presi-
dent of the Josef Kretschmann Club,
arranged the programme. Before the
musicians sang and played, China’s
Consul-General Chen talked on “Art in
China.” Since the just-concluded exhibi-
tion in London, the subject of China’s
place in the art world is one keenly dis-
cussed, Gladys Verona, Nance Marlay,
Valda Kersey, Charles Philip and George
Farrell were the afternoon’s artists.
Admirers of Eileen Joyce were glad to
see that she had recovered sufficiently
from her Saturday’s illness to attend the
music party at the Forum Club early last
week. This was given by the Darling
Point-Edgecliff branch of the Music
Club, and Lady Gowrie was chief guest
of the evening. Mrs. Wynyard, who has
been so helpful with the furnishings of
Admiralty House, accompanied the
Governor-General’s lady, and both were
received by Admiral and Mrs. Feakes.
Leonore Gotsch was the soprano, Roy
Agnew the pianist and Miss M. Read the
accompanist. Mrs. C. E. Fawsitt, who
came with her professor, wore a jewelled
belt of antique cut on her gold lame of
Greek design. Assistant-secretary Judy
Burleigh wore taffetas, cornelian in tone.


df
PEOPLE STAY at PETTY’S
in SYDNEY...
Visitors to Sydney choose Petty's for many
reasons. They appreciate its central position;
they like the comfort, the service, and the
cuisine. And the moderate tariff: Room and
Breakfast from H/6. Inclusive from 18/-. Wire
or write for reservations-
HOTEL
PETTY'S
York St. Sydney.
Stuart Crystal
The quality and brilliance of Stuart Crystal,
each piece the creation of master craftsmen,
is matched only by the finest diamonds.
English hand-made crystal. The name
Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives
(wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.
317-23 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
' ■
M
by
wk
Melbourne
Chatter
There were upright figures but few
youthful faces among the 16,500 men
who marched on Anzac Day. They
assembled near Parliament House in
pouring rain. Sawdust was laid along the
slopes of Collins-street to mitigate the
danger of slipping and bands kept the
men going, marching 20 abreast, but all
agreed that the march was far too long,
even more of an endurance test than
that along the old route which finished
at the Exhibition Buildings. The start
should have been nearer Prince’s Bridge,
not right up past Spring-street. They
were very weary Diggers who halted on
the slippery slopes of the Shrine lawns
for the memorial service.
The Shrine is certainly the most suit-
able setting for the Anzac service, but
the rain, though it held off during the
ceremony, and the skies cleared to cheer-
ful afterwards, had already drenched the
men and the section of the general pub-
lic which arrived early at the barriers. The
service commenced with the singing of
“All People That on Earth Do Dwell,”
led by the Anzac House Memorial Band,
after which Lord Huntingfield spoke to
the assembly. The programme of hymns
and addresses was shortened owing to
the danger to the men of chill plus weari-
ness.
Thousands of Diggers came in from
the country for the march and the
memorial services, and those who could
manage it arrived the night before to
take part in battalion reunions. They
attended the dawn service at the Shrine,
which is for men only. (Women are re-
quested not to come, for hundreds of
them show a complete lack of self-
control.) Many of these men had no
money to spare for rooms or even
shakedowns, and they had nowhere
pleasant to go for a rest, a yarn, a good
meal and a drink. There is nothing
friendly about a barred and bolted city.
The same thing happened after the
march. Men who hadn’t friends living
near by wandered off at a loose end.
Some picture shows, taking advantage of
a technical law point, opened in the
evening, much to the ire of the powers
that be ; but the Diggers are the last
people to object. It is a quaint concep-
tion of the meaning of Anzac Day that
would make it one of enforced mourning.
Scott’s Hotel was very festive one
night last week for a party in aid of
Xavier College Chapel funds. Outside
in the rainy night colored lights shone
with something of centenary vigor on
the face of the building, and a bellboy,
armed with an enormous beach umbrella,
scurried to and fro across the pavement
protecting guests alighting from cars.
The dining-room, cleared of lingering
diners by some persuasive genius, was by
8 p.m. transformed into a ballroom with
gay green cloths on cabaret tables and
the Merrymakers’ band of feminine
rhythmsters performing on wood and wind
in dresses of deep tangerine, just a shade
removed from the hue of the red bal-
loons which bobbed from the backs of
chairs. Bridge players pursued their luck
in the lounge next to the ballroom, and
in the foyer Mrs. S. V. Stutt and Mrs. L.
Whitaker did a brisk trade in lucky en-
velopes for woolly dogs, scent sprays and
other worth-while presents.
Audrey and Evelyn Lightfoot, Mar-
garet Ryan and Joan Cornforth sold
sweets and smokes. Mrs. J. Rowan wore
a floral frock and a mink coat; Mrs. T.
M. Burke and Mrs. R. L. Howitt were
in all-black; water-lilies patterned Pat
Chapman’s apple-green crepe dress.
Olive Williams wore a long musk-bjrown
velvet cloak and fastened a knot of
berries in her hair. The edge of a lilac
frock weighted with rows of padded
cords showed beneath the hem of Mary
Macarthy’s ankle-length black velvet
coat. Mrs. J. Fallon, Mrs. T. V. Millea
and Mrs. D. J. Whelan were among com-
mittee members who looked pleased at
the success of the party.
Louis McCubbin and Mrs, Spiers Jack-
son gave their cocktail party in the Sedon
Galleries last week still as an affianced
pair. They say they haven’t had time to
get married yet and the ceremony
will probably be performed en route to
the station to catch the Adelaide express.
The only spice of artiness about the party
were hats and coats piled up in bundles
along the floor. An ingenious person
might sometime invent a portable collap-
sible hat-rack which could be hired for
occasions when there is no accommoda-
tion for men’s outdoor accessories. The
pictures were raised above head level for
safety and so that they could be seen
above the crush; gorgeous flowers in-
creased the festive air, long tables down
the middle of the room carried savories
and a temporary bar was rigged up along
one wall
Alyce Wyatt, who had spent most of
the afternoon dashing backwards and
forwards in taxis with boxes of toy food,
forgot her cook’s cap in the glory of her
paradise plumes. Dr. Esme Anderson
was another wearer of feathers, which
curled and waved in tufts upon the front
of her black hat. Dr. and Mrs. J. H.
Troup were there, Mrs. Troup wearing a
Chinese collar and white ornamental
braid upon her black dress. Among
others in the crowd were Dr. and Mrs.
Clendinnen, Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Dough-
ton (Mrs. Doughton’s most envy-provok-
ing accessory was a watch mounted into
her handbag), A. G. May, Mick and Rod
Cherry, sculptor Leslie Boles, John
Matthews and the Harry Bests. When
the party eventually broke its com-
ponent parts distributed themselves all
over town for dinner. Several batches
were seen again at the Florentine,
where toasts were drunk to Louis
and Elsie and speeches were made, but
in whispers, in the manner of conspira-
cies being hatched.
Marie Walsh, caught here in serious
vein by a Ruskin camera, played the
role of Portia in “The Merchant of
Venice” produced last night at the Gar-
rick by the Louie Dunn Shakspearean
players. Miss Walsh, who teaches voice
production and the art of speaking in
her home town, Bendigo, is up at crack
of dawn at least once a week to catch
the first train to Melbourne for her
lessons with Louie Dunn.
Wing-Commander Hepburn (“Hep” to
everybody) has a very excellent constitu-
tion, a credit to any Australian (of the
services or otherwise). His farewells
double-banked at such a rate that he had
only about a dozen hours’ sleep during
his last week in Melbourne. He leaves
to-day by train for Sydney ; on May 6 he
catches the airmail ’plane in Brisbane,
and after stopovers in various landing
ports of call expects to arrive in Eng-
land in the first week in June. His jour-
ney is a business one —he’s Controller of
Works and Buildings for the Air Force—
and he’s pleased to go “technically” but
sorry “personally,” for he has so many
good pals in Melbourne. But his wel-
come-homes in a few months’ time will
be something to warm the cockles of his
heart.
Cuthbert Cate, Lloyd Brind and “Pro-
fessor” Cruikshank issued an invitation
to “the rough shock troops” to “heave
along and have one on us to speed our
cobber ‘King’ Cole on his way.’” Group-
Captain Cole has gone off to N.S.W. to
be C.O. at Richmond ; and of his many
farewells that of the rough shock troops
was unanimously declared one of the
finest. Among those present were the
Mayor of Geelong, Gengoult Smith,
General “Tommy” Blarney, the Base
Commandant, Brigadier McColl and a
batch of senior Air Force officers, includ-
ing Air-Commodore Nicholl, who has
decided he likes Australian hospitality.
As all the guests were old cobbers (and
shrewd ones), the three hosts didn’t try
their dodge of the perforated glass. It’s
an ordinary looking cut-glass drinking
vessel, but there are tiny holes hidden in
the pattern of daisies decorating its brim
through which the wassail dribbles, in-
explicably, on to the tie and waistcoat
of the person using it, who can see no
reason for the superfluous liquid except
his own clumsiness. That glass has been
the life and soul of many a party.
Here is Mrs. George Bell, who as
Edith Bell has done good work for the
Little Theatre in the capacity of both
actress and producer. Mrs. Bell, who is
English, had a good grounding in drama.
She was on the stage before she married
her painter and came to settle in Aus-
tralia. One of her severest critics is
daughter Antoinette, aged 13, who never,
if she can help it, misses one of her
mother’s rehearsals, and who reads plays
with more enjoyment than schoolgirl
books. She also paints, and with her
father to guide her will be given every
opportunity to develop her talent. Mrs.
Bell’s portrait is by Broothorn.
The Prime Minister’s wife has been
advised by doctors to take things easy,
but she had no time for rest on her
one day in Melbourne, en route from
Tasmania to Sydney. Her luncheon en-
gagement was with the Benevolent
Societies, at whose meeting she spoke
afterwards in the Town Hall. In the
afternoon she visited the Surrey Hills
Home of the Grey Sisters. Mrs. Lyons
praised the work of the Benevolent com-
mittees, and of women who sit in the
background while men with no more
ability or fine feelings get all the kudos
of public positions. She said that the
two most important topics of to-day
were population and defence. As the
mother of 11 the lady has certainly
done her bit towards population.
Shorts on the courts, but not in the
clubhouse —such is an L.T.A.V. decree
regarding the club at Kooyong. A mem-
ber’s innuendo about hairy legs was not
the reason for tightening up the regula-
tions ; the committeemen’s sensibilities
were not shaken by such considerations.
The idea is simply that a rule’s a. rule. It is
presumed that the ban’ does not apply to
women players, for, owing to dress-
makers’ cunning, it takes more than an
alert tennis official to tell whether girls
are wearing shorts or skirts.
Miss L. Byron Moore has another
godchild, Abbondio Broglio, a young
citizen born in Australia of Italian
parents. Abbondio’s mother has found the
Travellers’ Aid Society, for which Miss
Byron Moore works so hard, a very
good friend during the years she has
spent in Australia. Abbondio, when he
grows old enough to take an interest in
his life story, can, if he feels so inclined,
boast that he was christened at what is
probably the oldest font in this country,
that of St. James’s Old Cathedral, which
dates back to the Elizabethan era and
was sent to Melbourne as a gift from
Queen Victoria.
Miss Byron Moore’s eldest godchild
is a war baby, Mary Bartlett, now on the
verge of her twentieth birthday. Mary is
the daughter of a disabled soldier who
married soon after he returned with the
first batch of wounded Anzacs. Anzac Day
brings back memories of the Australian
Comforts Fund, for which Miss Byron
Moore and Miss Beatrice Henty worked
unceasingly during the war years. This
fund collected large sums of money, and
when the books were audited after the
Armistice it was found that expenses
worked out at only 2s. in every hundred
pounds. Miss Henty afterwards married
F. G. Blandy, who died last week.
An appeal for £25,000 has been made
to establish a women’s college on the
site of the old Carlton Cricket Ground,
opposite Ormond College. The scheme
is not new, having been put forward
before. In 1934 the Blue Triangle, col-
lecting funds for bigger Y.W.C.A. build-
ings, got in before the college enthusiasts,
and last year their collections for the
Union Club occupied the field. Trinity
and Newman sponsor respectively Janet
Clarke and St. Mary’s halls, but these
colleges have accommodation for only
75 students, and there are 900 women’s
names enrolled at the registrar’s office
of our seat of learning.
Lady Fluntingfield, Mrs. L. F. Giblin
and James Barrett were among speakers
at the first appeal meeting, for which the
Town Hall reception-room was crowded.
Donations of £lOOO from Dr. Georgina
Sweet, £5O from Dr. Constance Ellis,
many other generous gifts and a heap of
enthusiastic letters were an encouraging
start for a worthy effort. The commit-
tee hopes eventually to accommodate 57
students in a fine building with lecture-
rooms, a lab. and sleep-outs attached to
the girls’ bedrooms, but it will be satis-
fied for a start to instal 20 students in a
£lO,OOO building. In addition, money is
required for furnishings and scholarships.
Thomas Edmund O’Mahony has been
awarded the Haddon architectural travel-
ling scholarship, worth £3OO. Thirty is the
age limit for candidates, but this year’s
winner had several years to spare, being
only 21 and the youngest student to pass
the nomination exam, for the Architects’
Institute. The subject for the Haddon
was a Federal Government House at
Canberra, quite an imaginary project, as
the Federal village already has a Gov-
ernment House and is not likely to con-
sider replacing it in this generation.
Nina Ryan, aged 20, who lost her
sight seven years ago as a result of an
accident, is the first blind student to
receive the certificate of A.L.C.M. for
elocution. Nina lives at the Victorian
Institute for the Blind, where she has
studied speaking and voice-production
from the institute’s visiting teacher, Mrs.
Charles Nightingale.


Missing Relatives.
THE next-of-kin of CHARLES TATE, late
of Christchurch, New Zealand, and formerly
of Melbourne, are requested to communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, advising their relationship to
the deceased, and also forwarding any docu-
mentary evidence available to substantiate such
relationship.
Missing Friends.
TALL.—Would WILLIAM CHARLES CAMP-
BELL TALL, late of 407 Dowling Street,
Moore Park, near Sydney, and who was last
heard of in May, 1931, or any person knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 330 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH JANE NORTH-
COTE Petitioner
And ARTHUR FRANCIS NORTHCOTE
Respondent.
TO ARTHUR FRANCIS NORTHCOTE For-
merly of Goulburn in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
JANE NORTHCOTE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three
years and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
arid determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solici-
tors free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of April, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 390 of 1936.
BETWEEN DULCIE BARBARA TODD Peti-
tioner
And JOSEPH TODD Respondent.
TO JOSEPH TODD formerly of Penrith in
the State of New South Wales but now
of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DULCIE
BARBARA TODD has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three
years and upwards without just cause of ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solici-
tors free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of April, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 452 of 1936.
BETWEEN CORDELIA MAY SMITH Peti-
tioner
And JAMES EDWARD SMITH Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES EDWARD SMITH.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CORDELIA
MAY SMITH has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Ninth day of July
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited cr obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge
DATED this Sixteenth day of April, A.D.
1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. McINTOSH & ADRIAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
4 THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 586 of 1936.
ETWEEN LLOYD ARTHUR GAINEY of
Gravesend Laborer Petitioner.
And ANNIE HANNAH ELIZA GAINEY
(formerly Annie Hannah Eliza Tomkins)
his wife Respondent.
O ANNIE HANNAH ELIZA GAINEY late
of Guerie near Wellington in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LLOYD
,RTHUR GAINEY has commenced a suit
gainst you in this Honorable Court and is
pplying for a dissolution of marriage on the
rounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
AKE NOTICE that you are required to
nter an appearance to the said suit at the
roper office of this Honorable Court on or
efore the Twenty-first day of July next and in
ie event of your not doing so within the time
mited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
dll proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
lined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
f the petition filed herein may be had on
pplication to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W I CLEAVES, Solicitor for Petitioner,
'allaroi Shire Chambers, Hope Street,
Varialda.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
On the last day of the polo Broome-
hill’s red-shirts accounted for Irwin-
Minginew, two of whose team members,
Harold and Charles Readhead, retaliated
by winning most of the fancy events.
Except for one navy-and-white rig-
out, equestrienne dressing was in-
formal and dull, the gaily-colored
shirts and accoutrements of yore
giving way to plain white. Peggy Butcher
rode bareheaded in khaki breeks and
white shirt, and Ruth Morley brightened
the landscape with a blue shirt as she
won the musical chairs. Roma Reynolds
tucked her hair under a rolled-back beige
felt hat, but Bobbie Flight Smith let hers
blow in the wind.
Notwithstanding that the Polo Club
committee’s ball was a last-minute
arrangement, crowds turned up at the
Adelphi for the function. At the portals
of the danceroom stood president Nor-
man D’Arcy, with his lady alongside in
enviable black satin hitched to a yoke and
cape sleeves of sequined net. Gwen and
Grace Hardie were there in black, the
former’s sequined satin and the latter’s
matt crepe with tulle cape. Nell Stewart’s
ivory satin was striped with gold, Mrs.
Norman Barrett-Lennard mixed green,
white and black in her patterned chiffons
and Mrs. W. E. Rischbeith sprinkled
sequins on her soft blue silks. Mrs. P.
H. Crossley draped leaf-green lace over
pink, and Mrs. Hubert Parker’s taffetas
were shot with green and gold.
White roses perfumed the altar of St.
John’s, Northam, when Mary Drake-
Brockman was married to Lloyd Wiesner,
of Eudunda, S.A. Oyster peau d’ange
lace fashioned the bridal gown with its
tight-fitting sleeves, gold-beaded cowl,
miniature train and girdle of gold. A
wide-brimmed Leghorn straw hat with
velvet ribbon took the place of a veil. As
vanguard down the aisle came little
Lorna Drake-Brockman in Kate Greena-
way frock of shrimp-pink georgette and
ruched tulle hat. The two ’maids, Violet
Bethell and Malmai Wiesner, were clad
alike in soft pink, green and gold floral
ninon, with green stiffened tulle tied at
the waist.
The University started its celebrations
with a torchlight procession through the
city. Days of jollification finished with
the Graduation Ball at Winthrop Hail.
Dorothy Tangney, set about with, grace-
ful black georgette, headed the committee
responsible for the doings ; Prof. Beas-
ley’s other half topped black velvet with
a pink taffeta tunic ; Mrs. Fred Alexander
sprinkled silver lame on her moss-green
georgettes ; Prof. Summerville’s lady was
in unrelieved black chiffon; and Mrs.
A. C. Fox sashed her flame georgettes
with gold.
At her marriage to Leslie McCormick
Betty Watkins had the tulle veil and satin
slippers worn by Mrs. Watkins at her
wedding. Betty matched the footwear
with her deep cream georgette, slightly
trained, and ruched on the bodice. Doro-
thy Jones was the lone attendant in prim-
rose georgette cut with floating scarf
sleeves and matched with a circlet of
flowerlets worn in her hair. Sixty guests
drove to the Chestnuts, Jarrahdale, where
Mrs. Watkins harmonised with the set-
ting of her home in brown and green
figured chiffon,
Post-Lenten weddings have been in full
swing. Joyce Wishart and Wilfred
Steele’s was at St. George’s Cathedral,
with the bride in quicksilver crepe,
pannier-frilled into a train and clouded
with an old Limerick lace veil mounted
on tulle. Kath Lonergan, Carol Harper
and Patricia Wishart attended in azalea-
pink marsette, tied with lame-lined sashes
and crowned with pink and silver leaves.
Perth College chapel was decked with
tawny dahlias for Nancy Hollingsworth’s
marriage to William Patterson. From
Nancy’s brown wool de Chine ensemble
peeped a rose jumper embroidered in
colored wools. Verna Broadfoot, in a
beige two-piece suit and brown velour
hat, was her one attendant.
From Colombo comes news of Marion
Padbury’s knot-tying with Spencer Game,
of Ceylon. Bride’s sister, Mrs. Stan
Murphy, was matron of honor.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. and Mrs, L. R. Seppelt, of Glenelg,
gave a cocktail party to welcome home
their son John, who has been overseas
for three years. Guests were entertained
at the Seppelts’ home. Mrs. Seppelt was
gowned in black, red and beige patterned
georgette, Gwen wore leaf-brown chif-
fon velvet and Jean chose white, yellow
and blue flowered chiffon. There were
about 100 guests present. Later, the party
went on to the Hotel St. Vincent and to
the Blue Grotto to dance.
Bright winter sunshine cheered the
racing at Victoria Park. Tattersall’s
chairman, H. Allan Morris, and his wife
entertained a large party at afternoon-
tea, Mrs, Morris sporting a French model
black chiffon velvet tailored suit, a black
velour hat and double silver fox. Mayor-
ess Dunstan’s black tailored suit was
trimmed with black lacquered ribbon.
A black felt hat with coque feathers
and a black fox fur completed the en-
semble. Muriel Hall was all in navy,
and sister Gwen chose a grey tweed
suit and a black felt hat, her scarf black
and white. Mrs.' L. M. Darby, Mrs.
T. E. Barr Smith, jun., and Mrs. A. W.
Jolly chose brown tweed. Mrs. F. A.
Tennant wore a hip-length sable cape
over her bottle-green wool marocain,
and Mrs. C. E. Armstrong and Mrs.
W. T. Mortlock favored the all-black
ensemble. Margaret Bickford’s raspberry-
flecked tweed ensemble matched her felt
hat. Mrs. Norman Todd made a splash
of color with a red jumper as adjunct
to bright navy suit and navy felt hat,
and Madge Markwell relieved her black
tailored coat and black velvet beret with
a scarlet cravat and bag. Mrs. W. P. A.
Lapthorne’s Florentine-blue belted jacket
suit went with a navy felt hat and a light-
brown Arctic fur.
Now that Easter is over the Wallace
Sandfords and daughter Joan have re-
turned from Mount Lofty; and Mrs.
Arthur Rymill is back from Port Noar-
lunga, where her guests were Mr. and
Mrs. S. H. Ayliffe and Mr. and Mrs.
George Ross. Henry Newland and his
lady and Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Hayward
spent the Easter week at Victor Harbor,
where the Haywards had a house-party ;
and Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Rymill stayed
with Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Angas Par-
sons at Pewsey Vale.
The Goodman lady took her family
further afield to Sydney’s Palm Beach ;
her party included daughters Joan and
Zell and son Cyril Goodman and his
wife, Ruth Butler, of Adelaide, that was.
The first debutante dance of the
season was given by the Dr. Harry
Gilberts and William Gilberts at Mount
Osmond Country Club for daughters
Nancy and Mary. Dancing was
in the lounge, where deep-pink roses,
gladioli and miniature Japanese maple
decorated, Mrs. H. Gilbert’s Botticelli-
blue chiffon had long angel sleeves, and
she sported a corsage spray of crimson
roses. Mrs. W. Gilbert chose oyster-
grey chiffon, with a large orchid-mauve
flower at the waistline and a long coat
of the chiffon shirred at the shoulders.
Nancy was frocked in white silk net.
The flared skirt, merging into a train,
was trimmed from waist to hem with tiny
flounces of the net, with the same round
the corsage. Mary’s frock of ivory satin
was cut on princess lines, with wide
plaited shoulder-straps and a large soft
bow of satin in the front of the cor-
sage. Rowena Bray’s white satin, pin-
spotted in black, was cut with a square
neck. Barbara Forwood’s sophisticated
frock of bronze taffeta fitted to the
figure, flaring into a slight train, with
an upstanding knife-pleated frill round
the corsage, and narrow shoulder-straps.
Elspeth Rutherford chose an Oriental
draped gown of dove-grey chiffon, with
a houri draped scarf worn over the
head, the long ends reaching to the
ground. Mary Cave looked well in a
frock of filmy black lace.
Jean, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. G.
Pritchard, of Millswood, who has just
returned from a holiday in Maoriland,
announces her engagement to James
Dagger, of Marlborough College, Blen-
heim, M.L.
TASMANIA
At the Brighton J.C.’s meeting at El-
wick chairman John Swan had with him
his daughter, Mrs. Geoff Minton Tay-
lor, and her husband. Dressing was in-
conspicuous and wintry, with plenty of
fur. The crowd was augmented by many
of the Orford’s passengers, the ship stay-
ing in port three days,
Deloraine races drew a good holiday
crowd. The Prime Minister and Mrs.
Lyons were there, she wearing black
cepe satin and black-and-white hat.
Tailoied suits and smart coats were the
chief wear. Many folk ran out by car
from Launceston, and hordes of Western
District punters were in the throng.
Anthony Brettingham-Moore gave a
party at the Imperial on his twenty-first
birthday. His father and stepmother
helped to receive the guests, who were
mostly young. The supper tables were
gay with dahlias, and the big birthday
cake was decorated with the appropriate
number of candles.
Una Whitham, who has been enjoying
a trip to Colombo, came to the Speck in
the Orford, in which she had travelled
from Ceylon, and then continued on the
cruise up to Brisbane, to stay with her
brother and sister-in-law, the Queensland
State Commandant and Mrs. Whitham.
Dora and Nancy Grant, just lately
arrived in England with their parents, are
off on a comprehensive tour of Europe,
They are going to look at kindergartens
and other child-welfare systems in Den-
mark, Finland, Russia, Poland, Germany,
Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France.
Dora, especially, makes a study of this
type of work, and has already investi-
gated Montessori methods in Italy and
the upbringing of the young Japanese in
his own country. The family will return
to Tasmania via America, travelling from
London to New York in the Queen
Mary.
John Hood, one of the Speck’s former
Rhodes scholars, who has been on the
staff of the London “Times” for the last
six years, has been appointed assistant to
the Commonwealth liaison officer, and
will in future frequent Australia House.
“Kwakprak”: An interesting experi-
ment on the relation between diet and
dental decay has been made in Norway.
A group of children in a charitable insti-
tution received a controlled diet of milk,
wholemeal bread, plenty of cooked fruit
and vegetables and a dessert of raw fruit
or carrots to every meal. No tooth-
brushes or other dental hygiene measures
were used. Of their 209 milk teeth and
14 permanent teeth, only 11 had holes.
Another group of similar ages (three to
seven) attended a nursery day school.
Their teeth were brushed daily; they
received half a pint of milk and a hot
meal at school, and at home were allowed
plenty of sweets and soft bread. Count-
ing each extracted or ruined tooth as
two holes, they showed 584 carious holes
among 40 children, an average of 144
per child. The average for the first group
was 1 J 2 - per child. All holes in the first
group were small, most of those in the
second large and painful. The period of
experiment was identical for both.
* * * *
“Avon”: Kipling in one of his Indian
tales makes a native officer tell the story
of guard duty at the catafalque of a dead
monarch. It seems to be a very trying
business, for which reason guard is re-
lieved every half hour. In the case of
King George V. the duty was officially
shared by quartets each from the
Guards, the Yeomen of the Guard and
the gentlemen-at-arms, but it has now
been disclosed that at one stage in the
vigil—the half hour after midnight on the
day of the funeral —the three services
were represented in a fashion that, in a
minor way, made history. Edward VIII.
in the uniform of Colonel of the Welsh
Guards, the Duke of Kent in Air Vice-
Marshal’s kit, the Duke of Gloucester as
Major of 10th Hussars and the Duke of
Kent as Commander R.N. replaced the
Guards at the inner stations and did their
30 minutes —recognised, apparently, by
hardly any of the mourners who even at
that bleak hour continued to stream
through the great Hall at Westminster.
A picturesque touch.
:H * * *
“Bo”: Keenness of sight, long looked
upon as one of the first essentials of a
good birdman, seems likely to lose its
importance. An airman now flying
“blind” must of necessity have his eyes
constantly on the maze of instruments
before him. But in the future the ear
will displace the eye when heavy clouds
and fog descend —a simple pair of ear-
’phones, connected with a tiny propeller
fitted on the leading edge of one wing,
will tell the pilot all he wants to know.
The device is based on the variations of
sound set up by a humming generator
driven by the little gadget. The prin-
ciple is good, for the ear is a faster
message-deliverer than the eye, and is
less likely to play tricks, especially when
all extraneous sound is barred by en-
veloping ear ’phone. Moreover, the
hazard of a “blackout” on the instru-
ment board, which would make things
nasty for the pilot, would be eliminated.
A weakness may be the position of the
recording propeller, open to possible
damage in a heavy storm, when its re-
liability should be unquestionable. The
ideal safety blind-flying method would
seem to be for both ear and eye to work
in conjunction.


Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
to.; era
e-Son Ltd.
iMePHERSONS PTV. LTD.. Melbourne;, Adelaide,. Pertlw
. E.S.C.A...Brisbane.
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal.
May Issue on Sale Saturday.
PROBLEM OF IMPORTS
MAORILAND’S RESERVE BANK
INVESTMENT PROSPECTS
MINING NEWS FROM ALL FIELDS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE; ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ..
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
“Nagheer”: Southerners sometimes
commiserate with us denizens of the
Great Lonely North for our uneventful
lives, but we do get our share of excite-
ments at times. Last week a chap camp-
ing on the river found a grandfather-
sized crocodile wandering round the tent
at night, and scared it into the best swim-
ming hole by banging a camp-oven with
an axe. Swimming has ceased until we
find its outward tracks —the ingoing ones
were three feet wide. Next day a fisher-
man picked up a 201 b. lump of amber-
gris on the beach and lost another 101 b.
piece in the rising tide. The day after
that a chap unearthed a tidy nugget in
some old workings a few miles out of
the township. Two days later some mean
cow pinched the engagement ring of the
landlady’s daughter from her dressing
table, and as her man can certainly
fight we expect some action soon. Now
the oldest inhabitant has fallen down a
well and escaped unscathed except for a
bent starboard whisker. Uneventful!
* * * *
“Arunta”: There is much hilarity in
the N.T. outback at the latest ordinance
from Canberra. It consists of about
10,000 words, and applies even to a hut,
which means “a structure or erection con-
structed or erected wholly or in part with
boughs, bark, matting, fragments of old
galvanised-iron or other material of a
similar nature, and includes lean-tos of
any description.” None of us may erect
huts anywhere in Darwin and nobody
may erect a tent anywhere in the N.T.
apparently without reference to the Chief
Medical Officer. A hopeful note pro-
vides for conservatories, greenhouses and
summerhouses. Doors and windows
must open into the fresh air and must
be three feet from the nearest boundary.
I’m all right; the next boundary to me
is a couple of hundred miles away. But
I don’t know how I’ll get on about
kitchen, bathroom and ceiling, about
which there is quite a lot in the regula-
tions. Providence built ceilings for me.
It seems to have grossly infringed the
law.
* * # *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A pathetic
little tragedy is being played out in Dar-
win by the last few survivors of the
Larrakeyah tribe. Before the whiteman
came their country stretched from Point
Charles to East Point, and their main
camp was at Lameroo Beach. They gave
it up, they say, on the promise of Dr.
Gilruth and Dr. Basedow that they
should have Kahlin Beach to themselves.
But foreigners from Port Keats, the
Daly River and Melville Island have been
permitted—even encouraged—to intrude
upon Larrakeyah country. Now Kahlin
is to be taken away, and it is proposed to
transfer them inland. They protest bit-
terly that they are salt-water people and
cannot live away from the sea, and that
their only refuge will be in the jungle
across the harbor until the last of them
dies out and the land of the Larrakeyahs
knows them no more. Hasn’t anyone at
Canberra got a heart?
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Few things impress
visitors to Brisbane more unfavorably
than the extraordinary overcrowding of
tramcars at peak hours, whilst motor-
buses covering the same route pass by
with one or two passengers. “Why on
earth,” they ask, “don’t people take the
bus instead of getting squashed flat?”
The answer is that the city fathers don’t
allow the citizens to travel in buses un-
less they travel the whole distance.
Otherwise the buses would be competing
with the highly uncomfortable and
totally inadequate trams which the city
fathers provide, and which the squashed
ratepayers are supposed to own. The
strange part about it, and the one which
invariably leads the visitor to suggest
that Brisbaneites must be particularly
tame, is that such a senseless and tyran-
nous deprivation of ordinary transport
facilities is accepted as a matter of
course.
* * * *
“Playford”: Tom Hare, employed at
Alroy Downs (N.T.), recently was standing
astride over the cattle dip while bullocks
were being dipped. One bullock rushed
through, picked him up between its
horns, tossed him on to its back, then
jumped headlong
into the dip with
Tom still on its
back. The dip had
eight or ten feet of
water in it. When
the bullock rose
out of the water,
Hare was sitting on
its neck, his head
facing the tail, just
as he went in. Be-
yond a few
scratches he was
uninjured. He is
now the N.T.’s
strongest advocate
of wide horns on
bullocks.
* *
“Hooshta”: I un-
derstand that the
N.S.W. Western
Land Board is so
wary about a
cheque which has
been eaten by a
camel that it de-
mands indemnifi-
cation before it will
issue another.
There can be no
old Territorians on
the W.L.B. I have
seen a bull camel
get relish out of a
whole Brisbane
“Courier,” and I
have seen a lady
beast eat the
“North Queens-
land Register.” A
bull in the right
mood would even
try to masticate a
Western Lands
Commissioner. The
only time I ever
saw one really
sceptical about his
diet was when he
tried live tomcat.
“X.T.”; Did somebody say that Mr.
Brown, of the Post Office, was a Scotch-
man? The inhabitants of Arrilalah (C.Q.)
have been compelled to run a private
telephone exchange for some years,
maintaining about 40 miles of wire. Now
the Thompson River people want a line,
and Mr. Brown says it won’t pay, but
if the loca’s like to dip in and share a
guarantee he will be ready to oblige
them by putting down a line parallel to
the private Arrilalah one. The Arrila-
lahans are inclined to continue with their
own line. So the other people may not
get theirs. But the Post Office won’t
worry. It is what is called a “public
utility” and can dictate its own terms.
♦ * ♦ *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Goat-racing in
Queensland’s west has declined sadly
since the Flinders River Goat Race Club
held its Patriotic Meeting at Hughenden
in September, 1914. The eight events
began with the Belgium Handicap, re-
served for maidens only. “The Kaiser’s
Downfall” prize went to the goat that
jumped the highest when ridden by a
native of the Flinders country. Wrestling
on goatback came next on the card, “The
End in Sight,” for which all beaten goats
were eligible, terminated the meeting.
Any goat bred more than 20 miles from
Hughenden was ineligible, and all com-
petitors had to be grass-fed. Any-
one found bumping, jostling or otherwise
misbehaving on the course was to be
“skiboshed” as provided for by the club’s
rules, but the nature of this appalling
punishment was never divulged, as the
club had no rules.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A. G. Davis, of
Brisbane, brought to light some inter-
esting facts about Brisbane’s early steam-
ships at a lecture
before the Historical
Society. The James
Watt, in which
Andrew Petrie and
his family arrived
from Sydney in
1837, was the first
steamer to enter
Moreton Bay, but
she anchored off
Stradbroke Island,
and her passengers
came across the Bay
by boats. The next
was the Sophia Jane,
in 1839, to take
“All I say is, girls, the longer they crow the less time
they have to bother us.”
away female prisoners after the con-
vict establishment was closed down.
She came up the Brisbane River. In
1842 the Shamrock began the first steam
service between Sydney and Brisbane.
Other regular visitors were the Thistle
and Rose, of the Hunter River Steam
Navigation Co. In 1851 the Australasian
S.N. Co. took them over, and with the
Telegraph and Boomerang put the trade
on a new basis. For 30 years prior to
the opening of the railway in 1875 a
large part of the goods and passenger
traffic between Brisbane and Ipswich
was by steamer.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
April 27 was the date chosen for the
wedding of Eileen Mackay and Euston
Moore, and Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Moore
left on the eve of Anzac Day for Sydney
by car.
Mrs. H. E. Gill, who was Mrs, Charlie
Lennon, is off to England by the
Ormonde, and is taking daughter Mar-
garet with her. Joyce Lennon will join
them abroad.
To raise funds for the Old and Present
Boys’ Motor Camp, the old boys of the
Brisbane Boys’ College staged “A Damsel
in Distress” in All Saints’ Hall on April
24. Jean Trundle produced. A few
nights earlier the-Repertory Society put
on “Grief Goes Over,” and drew a packed
house. Dulcie Scott was the producer,
Mrs. Roy Parkinson did excellent work
as Mrs. Oldham, and Jack Walsh showed
/considerable dramatic ability as Kira
Oldham. Edna Keane as the first wife,
Mary Lou, and Vivienne Taylor as
Joan, destined to be the second Mrs.
Kim Oldham, were both charming. •
The Creche and Kindergarten started
the season with a dance and bridge party
at Lennon’s Hotel. Mrs. Bruce Shearer
acted as hostess, in a caped frock of
rose-pink moire, and Kitty Hillcoat, her
usual capable self, in powder-blue frock
and silver coat, was secretary.
To commemorate the 24 years’ service
of Mrs. T. C. Abraham as president of
the Queen Alexandra Home, the matron,
Mrs. John Else, gave a party. The
children contributed a programme, and
during the evening one of them handed
over a pair of cut crystal vases. The
staff contributed a crystal powder-box.
Mrs. Ashton Murphy has been presi-
dent of the Riverview Ladies’ Bowling
Club for six years, but she has retired,
and her place has been taken by Mrs. B.
F. Skinner. Mrs. 'Murphy found the
club with a debit of £l5O and left it
with a credit of £23.
Nancy Baring Gould and her husband,
with their two small sons, came down
from the Federated States last week to
stay with Justice and Mrs. Macnaughton,
Nancy’s parents. She gave up a promis-
ing stage and concert career to marry
her planter, who is a nephew of the
English novelist.
Mrs. Basil Bergin has a most fascinat-
ing hobby—she collects posters from all
over the world, and very soon is to give
an exhibition of them for charity.
The news of Arnold Wienholt’s capture
by the Italians caused a great sensation.
Starting off as a war correspondent for a
Brisbane daily, he took on Red Cross
work. It will not be a new experience
for him —the Germans captured him in
Africa, and the conditions then seem
likely to have been worse than should pre-
vail in an Italian camp. Arnold isn’t a
very lucky tripper. In S’Africa years ago a
lion clawed his face savagely—and got
away with it.
M. G. Haymen, g.m. of the Queens-
land National, with Mrs. Haymen and
Nell, is going to England shortly. Nell
will be missed by the various committees
on which she toils.
A cheerful soul armed with a dragnet
—entirely illegal—was catching bait at a
Moreton Bay resort when he saw a
stranger regarding him with an interested
eye. “Give us a hand, mate,” said the
unlawful netter. “I’m an inspector of
fisheries,” was the answer. “I don’t
care if you’re Zane Grey,” said the bait-
hound ; “you can pull on a rope,
can’t you?” But the inspector had the
last word —the net was confiscated.


• for every
socket in every
receiver
is Milliard
The Master
Valve
%
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ae»<aQß
HECTRIC HAND LAMP
Consists of the new Block Plateless
Accumulator fitted with a powerful
bull’s-eye attachment, in moulded
bakelite with chromium fittings.
No plates to buckle.
No sulphation.
No dissipation of charge.
A brilliant, powerful beam of light
when and where required.
Ideal for Campers, Fishermen,
Motorists: in fact, all outdoor re-
quirements.
PRICE 39/6
Advt. of
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD.
70 Clarence Street, Sydney
RADIO NEWS
ULTRA-SHORT WAVES.
The New Communication Channel.
BY SON B.KNOCK.
Enormous strides have been made in
the development of ultra-short waves
for radio communication during the last
few years. Radically new methods for
controlling the new transmissions have
been devised and hold out interesting
possibilities for the future. Already re-
search has opened up a great number of
additional channels, and new data are
being added to existing knowledge
almost daily. The new work, moreover,
will have a tremendous influence upon
television, which has been handicapped
by the lack of ether space owing to the
wide band of frequencies required for
high definition.
The three Australian amateurs, VK2DQ, L. Cummins, and
VKSFB, with the mobile station VK5FBX, after completing
the trip through South Australia, Tasmania and Victoria.
The production, modulation and detec-
tion of these ultra-short waves or ultra-
high frequencies, however, have reached
the same stage of development as was
obtained in the early days of the lower
frequencies. Experiment has outstripped
theory. There are still years of work
ahead, and no doubt the present
apparatus will be superseded because
there are as yet unrealised applications
for this new phase of radio science.
Experimenters were first able to pro-
duce the oscillations by means of the
thermionic valve. But they were unable
to explain why. They were forced to
make improvements by the long and
tedious method of “trial and error” be-
cause they did not have the powerful
tools of theoretical analysis at their com-
mand. As time went on higher and
higher frequencies were desired, and were
produced by some kind of valve operat-
ing in a variety of circuits. Now refine-
ments in circuit and valve design have
allowed the technique to be improved
until a good efficiency has been obtained.
The extremely rapid oscillations cor-
responding to wave-lengths below ten
metres are in their very nature similar
to the oscillations of ordinary beams of
light, and to a certain extent obey the
laws of optics. An obvious advantage
is that they may be directed like a search-
light at the receiving point, although the
range is limited to straight-line visibility
between transmitter and receiver when
the influences of defraction, etc., are dis-
regarded.
The penetrating qualities, however, are
considerably stronger than those of visible
rays. They pass through fog and cloud,
free of any attenuation. Thus, where
known optical signalling means prevail,
such as in lighthouses and normal
beacons, increasing application is found
because of non-failure owing to poor
visibility.
In operation the transmitter uses a re-
flector concentrating the energy in a de-
sired narrow path, directly to the receiv-
ing point. A similar reflector picks up
the transmitted energy and concentrates
it on the receiver. Such optical systems
cover an angle of the compass. These
conditions are easily dealt with by opti-
cal lights using reflectors and lens sys-
tems ; but with ultra-short waves diffi-
culties arise. Large dimensions of reflec-
tors make their use cumbersome except
for wave-lengths less than one metre.
But experiment has shown that waves
of only a few centimetres can be used,
and parbolic reflectors become physically
convenient.
The advantages are that such beacons
form a simple and safe means of secur-
ing guide lines ; there is freedom from
atmospheric interference and absence of
fading phenomena, and the antenna may
be of small dimensions.
The advent of radio beacons to guide
aeroplanes first made possible concen-
trated beams of electric-wave energy, and
the knowledge so obtained made a wel-
come supplement to the purely optical
signalling systems.
Short waves open possibilities here
also, as experiment has evolved a pilot
ray that is absolutely independent of in-
terference except very close to the
beacons. Telephone lines, railway lines
or forests in the near vicinity cause no
deviation. The radically new system of
modulation ensures the practical utilisa-
tion of a wave-length as short as a centi-
metre. This makes it possible to control
the amplitude or volume of transmissions
without changing the frequency or wave-
length.
An extremely concentrated ionisation
is produced in a mercury argon valve,
and this duplicates the effects of the
natural Kennelly-Heaviside layer in bend-
ing and absorbing the waves under con-
trollable conditions. The principal advan-
tage is that the wave-length is not affected
by the modulation, as it would be by all
other known methods.
Marconi now claims that these ultra-
short waves can be made to follow the
curvature of the earth to some extenj.
This very much upsets all previous ideas
regarding the propagation of the new
wave-lengths. It was thought that these
waves definitely followed the laws of
light; that they travelled only in straight
lines and therefore could not be received
below the horizon.
Marconi’s experiments, although not
yet conclusive evidence as to the possi-
bilities of bending the waves (since the
phenomenon could be somewhat explained
by defraction) show that signals have
been received at points below the horizon.
Marconi succeeded in receiving signals
at distances twice as great as the maxi-
mum set by previous theories. Further
experiments resulted in signals being
clearly heard at a distance five times as
great, and less distinctly and intermit-
tently at a distance nine times as great
as allowed by theory.
The phenomenon of defraction might
be used to explain these results on the
principle that ultra-short waves filter
around the curvature of the earth for a
short distance, in the same manner as
light creeps to a limited extent around
the edges of obstacles. The distance of
reception, however, appears too great
for this to be acceptable. The evidence
appears to support the contention that
ultra-short waves can be made to bend.
The equipment used embodied many
improvements, and signals were received
at a maximum distance of 160 miles. The
transmitter used the small power deliv-
ered by a 25-watt generator.
If the problem of making these ultra-
short waves follow the curvature of the
earth is solved, it will open up remark-
able possibilities in radio communication.
Cost will be reduced to a fractional
amount compared with the high-pow-
ered stations of to-day. The problem of
interference will also be solved if ultra-
short waves can be applied to future
broadcasting. The increased number of
channels opened will remove overcrowd-
ing, and atmospheric disturbances will
be of small account or non-existent.
D. N. L.
Caravaning and Portable Radio.
Three Australian radio amateurs,
Frank Brandon (VKSFB), of Wilmington
(S.A.), L. Cummins, Wirrabara (S.A.),
and D. Nourse, of Broken Hill (N.S.W.),
like the open road for a holiday, and
take a complete radio station with them
wherever they go. They did a leisurely
D. Nourse ( VK2DQ), with the portable station VKSFBX
in action.
tour in a small motor-caravan, fitted with
portable transmitter and receiver, under
the call of VKSFBX, and altogether
covered 2700 miles. En route they visited
60 amateur and eight commercial sta-
tions, meeting in the flesh many operators
who previously were known only to them
as a familiar callsign. The illustrations
show the caravan and operators and the
station in action in a tent conveniently
used on many occasions. The radio
equipment is simplicity itself, but effec-
tive. The transmitter is a simple “TNT,”
using a 8406 oscillator, and the aerial a
wire 66ft. long, clipped to the tank.
The receiver is a simple “two-step, using
A 415 detector and 8445 audio. Power
supply is from Ever-Ready B batteries
at four watts. This little roving station
worked with five countries, and totalled
308 contacts. The crew wish to extend
to all amateurs they visited during the
recent tour their hearty thanks for many
enjoyable interludes. Amateur radio has
the advantage of enabling one to make
and keep many friends.
Wireless Memories.
Radio operators are reminiscing about
the “good old days,” with memories
stirred by the fact that A.W.A. has just
fitted new multivalve receivers in prac-
tically every Australian ship. The old
PI with “soft valves” is passing into
oblivion. The Q valve, the magnetic
detector and crystal have gone. No
longer need an operator take a razor-
blade and scrape around to find the
most sensitive spot on a crystal. Nowa-
days operators going ashore do not carry
a pocket full of galena for fear the w.l.
cabin might be burgled. The racehorse
which used to run perpetually around
the revolving pulley of the old magnetic
detector has been put out to grass and
the book has been closed on the vain
boastings of signals received with crude
apparatus over thousands of miles. New
superheterodyne receivers are just an-
other advance in the eternal progress of
radio.
Casual Comment.
“Sach”: What a mess an aeroplane
could make of the water supply of
Sydney, coming as it does for miles in an
open canal. A bomb could divert the
water necessary for Sydney all over the
countryside. Near Cecil Hills the canal
dives into a tunnel and goes on to Pros-
pect reservoir. Secondly, what a waste of
power! A turbine plant placed in the
15-knot current could provide Cecil
Hills with electricity ; at present the old
kerosene lamp is in use. Luddenham,
Bringelly and other villages around the
site could be served in a similar manner ;
in addition, power could be supplied for
dairies and others needing electricity. At
Rous Mill, Richmond River (N.S.W4,
there is a small hydro plant worked from
a very feeble waterfall; it lights four
houses belonging to the owner and his
sons and sons-in-law and the local
churches, besides providing the power
for the “flying-fox” used to convey the
fruit across the wide gorge.
* * * ♦
“Querex”: Recently an aggressive
form of interference with radio reception
was unearthed in U.S.A. and was dis-
covered to be due to “diathermy” appar-
atus using high power on an unscreened
ultra-short-wave oscillator with A.C. plate
supply. A report comes from Notting-
hamshire (England) of virulent interfer-
ence which will no doubt ultimately be
traced to similar equipment. Sydney is
not without its troubles in this respect.
Observers have noticed that every
Monday evening between 8 and 9 wide-
spread interference is caused in the
eastern suburbs. By the character of this
interference, with occasional shifts in fre-
quency of the main
peaks, it seems
likely that' some
medical apparatus
in which a patient
is placed between
electrodes is the
cause of the
trouble. As the
patient moves be-
tween the elec-
trodes so the fre-
quency moves
about. The inter-
ference is so power-
ful in Waverley
(N.S.W.) that
everything from
ultra-short to
broadcast waves
is blotted out. Evidently treatment,
so far, is given only on Monday nights.
The effect in a metropolitan area of


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
1 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
COMING f
&
SYDNEY’S FIRST 100 PER CENT.
AMATEUR RADIO EXHIBITION
Organised by the N.S.W. Division,
Wireless Institute of Australia.
To be held June 15 to 20, 1938, in the
Presbyterian Assembly Hall (lower hall), Wynyard Square.
See the latest in amateur radio. Complete transmitters in
action. Demonstrations of ultra-short-wave equipment. Inter-
club and general amateur constructional competitions. Non-
W.I.A. members invited to compete at a nominal entry fee.
Trade exhibits of amateur apparatus and accessories.
Many valuable prizes donated by prominent radio traders
and manufacturers.
The exhibition will be opened by short-wave radio-telephone
from U.S.A.
V!
i
several of these contrivances in action at
once can be well imagined.
* ❖ * *
“Scanner”: Television cathode-ray
tubes have caused some uneasiness in
some quarters in England by their ten-
dency to “implode.” Exhausted to a high
degree of vacuum, these large-sized tubes
must of necessity be constructed to stand
enormous outside pressure, and it is sur-
prising that they stand up as well as
they do. Cases have been recorded where
tubes have “gone off” even before being
unpacked from the carton, and one tele-
vision experimenter had one collapse dur-
ing operation, leaving marks on the wall
from the broken glass. Although a
vacuum tube must necessarily collapse
and not actually explode, the glass is
likely to be subject to considerable force
and motion in particle form, and may
be dangerous. The possibility does not
apply to the usual form of tube for
cathode-ray oscilloscopes, where the
fluorescent screen is of small size. The
reason for the limitation on the: size of
television tubes is clear. Television re-
ceiver manufacturers will have to pro-
vide protective guards.
Wireless Institute of Australia.
N.S.W. Division.
Officers elected at the annual meeting
on 19 /3 / ’36 were: President, H. F.
Peterson (VK2HP); city vice-president,
D. B. Knock (VK2NO); country vice-
president, O. Chapman (VK2OC) ; sec-
retary-treasurer, W. Ryan (VK2TI); pub-
licity officer, W. M. Moore (VK2HZ);
council members, H. Chinner (VK2CG),
H. Caldecott (VK2DA), P. H. Adams
VK2JX), K. Burnett (VK2BJ) and I. Mc-
Gregor (VK2MY).
It is proposed to hold in June a first
exhibition of wholly amateur apparatus
at Sydney Presbyterian Assembly Hall.
Demonstrations will be given with long-
distance 20-metre telephony equipment,
and a variety of applications for ultra-
shortwave apparatus will be demonstrated.
Every phase of amateur radio will be
illustrated.
Amateur Chatter.
American short-wave listeners are ex-
tremely keen about their DX clubs and
the reception of verification reports from
overseas. During the present 20 metre
'phone boom Australian amateurs are
being heard by countless s.w.ls. over-
seas, and reports and requests for QSLs
are giving the Post Office cause to think
that there must be something in this
amateur radio business. If the s.w.l.
sends postage or a reply coupon it is a
matter of common courtesy for the re-
cipient to respond. Even if the; amateur
concerned has no QSL cards on hand, a
courteous letter will do. S.w.ls. should
be encouraged to the utmost. They are
potential amateurs, and the more the
world gets to know about amateur radio
the better.
Plans are well in hand for the W.I.A.
exhibition to be held in Sydney between
June 15 and 20 this year. The trade has
responded nobly ; the prize list is formid-
able. The exhibition will in all prob-
ability be opened by radio-telephone,
through the courtesy of VK2ME and
W2XAF, by K. B. Warner, secretary of
A.R.R.L., speaking from the U.S.A.
Competitions will be open to non-W.I.A.
members at a fee of 2s. 6d. per entry, and
the charge for admittance will be 6d.
The next year or so should see some real
achievement on five metres, for several
Sydneysiders are taking the DX possi-
bility seriously. After conversations with
W2EUG and W6CNE, enthusiasm runs
high, and the feeling exists that sooner or
later the Pacific will be crossed on “five.”
Before tackling U.S.A., there is Maori-
land to consider, and, judging by the ter-
rific strength of ZLs on 10 metres at
present, across the Tasihan on five should
be well within the bounds of reason.
VK2UC is working on new apparatus, as
is the writer. There will be no semblance
of last year’s equipment in the future.
Super-regenerators are out, and the trans-
mitter will be crystal-controlled, finish-
ing with two 50Ts.
W6CNE has been working wonders,
with R 9 reports in New York, from his
San Francisco location. He uses an
antenna system with four half-waves in
phase. After all, such an array takes
up only a spread of 34ft. It could be
made hrotatable with a little engineering
and carpentry ability. W6CNE has two
801’s in the final stage of his five-metre
transmitter, so that the output power need
by no means be formidable for DX.
Who will be the first Australian to secure
a two-way contact outside Australia on
five metres? The race is on.
VK2NO.
A Metal-valve Advantage.
Among many good points of the metal
valves, the most outstanding is the use
of a standard base and socket for the
whole range of valves. With the glass
valves and their multitude of bases and
connections it is necessary after wiring
a receiver to check socket connections
individually to make sure that no mis-
takes have been made. With metal valves
a quick visual check is possible. If the
sockets are inspected from underneath,
and the particular valve should have cer-
tain blanks with no connection, this can
be seen at a glance. A wired connection
to a blank would disclose a mistake. This
does not mean to say, of course, that all
those that should be connected are wired
correctly, and this check comes next.
Another Regeneration Control.
The important thing with a screen
grid or R.F. pentode regenerative de-
tector is to keep the screening grid poten-
tial at an optimum value for efficient
detection. Unfortunately with the widely-
used method of oscillation control by in-
clusion of a potentiometer varying the
screening grid potential detection effi-
ciency can be lacking, depending upon
plate or cathode coil coupling and induc-
tance values. Illustrated is a novel
scheme applied to the familiar electron
coupled detector. The idea could also
well be applied to the Wide-World Two
receiver. Instead of the recently de-
scribed method of using a low resistance
potentiometer across the cathode coil (or
tap to earth) a variable capacity is intro-
duced. A potentiometer is likely to be
very noisy, and the combination of
cathode choke and condenser illustrated
overcomes the trouble. The variable
condenser should have a maximum capa-
city of around ,00015mfd.
Six combined transmitters and re-
ceivers operating on five metres are to
be used by the Mount Everest Expedi-
tion to maintain contact between the
various camps. It will thus be possible
to transmit rapid instructions from the
main camp to the advance parties instead
of relying on foot messengers.
Reliability Tests.
Every experienced radio dealer knows
that if a set is going to develop faults it
will usually do so during the first week
of use at the customer’s home. Aftei
that time a period of uninterrupted en-
tertainment is normally enjoyed by the
purchaser.
With this important fact in mind,
engineers in charge of the assembly ol
sets at a prominent English factory have
devised a test on the factory premises
which will duplicate that first important
week in the home.
A huge batch of some 200 instru-
ments is connected to the power and
switched on ; they are all tuned in to
some predetermined frequency and left
running for 24 hours. During this time,
testers go round from one set to an-
other to manipulate the controls and ex-
amine the more vulnerable components.
Reckoning the average playing time in
a purchaser’s home to be roughly three
hours per day, the 24-hour run is equal
to well over a week’s use, with the added
advantage that the three-hour periods
are consecutive, thus giving a more ex-
haustive tryout.
Twenty-four hours is considered to
be the maximum time necessary, as the
test proves to be no more effective at
longer periods. The working life of the
sets is not affected by more than an
infinitesimal amount.
Latest in the Trade.
The type of short-wave coil former as
used in U.S.A. has long been the envy
of short-wave experimenters in Australia.
Where specifications are given in U.S.A.
radio publications for the design of any
particular receiver, the coil former sizes
are invariably Uin. diameter. In several
handbooks complete tables of induct-
ance, and capacity values are given,
and the Australian, reading these, is, un-
less sufficiently experienced in cut-and-
try methods, concerned as to how the
coils will work out on the Australian Hjn.
diameter former. A manufacturer with
an eye on short-wave requirements is
R. Ray, head of Standardised Pro-
ducts, Ashfield (N.S.W.). This co. is
now producing a new type of
diameter plug-in former, similar in
appearance to the well-known “National”
product. A sturdy ring provides for
handling of the coil in awkward places.
The moulding- material is of a special
low-loss kind, and as the former is not
ribbed it can be supplied with turned
grooves for spaced winding. The bases
are; obtainable in four-, five and six-pin
types. This diameter product is
marketed at an opportune time, and
is additional to a similar type of Hin.
diameter. These new coil formers are
recommended by Don B. Knock for the
new “Ideal Amateur Superhet.”
* * * *
W. G. Nicholls, Australian commer-
cial artist and radio trade advertising
agent, has just had to replace a Mullard
type 45 triode valve after seven years’
rigorous use in a direct-coupled amplifier.
During this period the valve has been
operating with 325 volts at 40ma. The
45 is one of the most robust of valves
ever designed, and this example is proof
that the type was meant to stand up to
hard work.
* * * *
From a U.S.A. factory data sheet
Polyiron in the cores of antenna and
interstage R.F. couplers insures a higher
gain and sharper resonant curve than is
possible with conventional air-core _ coils.
Inductive and capacitative coupling is em-
ployed in the iron-core R.F. couplers to
secure uniform gain throughout the entire
tuning range. All coils are Litz wound.
Australia still waits for iron-core R.F.
coils. The objection raised to the use
of iron cores in the signal frequency cir-
cuits is “lack of uniform gain over the
whole frequency range.” Well, the
American tells how to do it—a com-
monsense combination of inductive and
capacitative coupling.
Dials.
Several years ago the only form of
vernier tuning dial was the familiar black
bakelite circular affair for mounting on
the front of a panel or cabinet. Since
those times dials have altered consider-
ably, and the modern receiver sports some
Wanted: An en-
terprising Aus-
tralian manufac-
turer to turn out
dials of this type.
They may be old-
fashioned, but are
very useful and
now very scarce.
wondrous arrangements, even with time
indicators and colored lights. Such tun-
ing indicators are necessary and play an
important part in the appearance and
general utility of the receiver. All very
nice and fine, but what about the amateur
and the constructor? He has a thousand
and one uses for the humble and simple
bakelite case dial, and to-day he cannot
get such a thing locally-made in Australia.
There is definitely room in Australia for
a simple but well-made type of moulded
bakelite front-of-panel dial at a reason-
able price. For amateur short-wave
receivers, transmitter tuning adjustments,
monitors and a thousand and one other
things, they are useful. A case in point
is the Little Twin, a simple, inexpensive
and extremely popular receiver recently
described in The Bulletin. A back-of-
panel clock dial is out of place in such
a simple affair, but now there is hardly
a plain vernier dial to be picked up
even in the junk stores. Here is surely
an opportunity for some manufacturer
to put out an inexpensive modified dial,
similar in appearance and action to the
old style. The demand is there, as radio
editors can testify.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address mast accompany all
queries Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Are iron-cored coils procurable throughout
for a seven-valve dual-wave superhet circuit ?
If so, where, and at what cost ? 406.
No. Only for the intermediate-frequency
transformers. It is most likely that the cores
will be put into use in ordinary R.F. coils be-
fore long, especially with a new type of core
just available from Europe. This will be de-
scribed in the near future.
* * # *
(1) Name of agent in Australia for Scott
all-wave superhet? (2) Landed cost of re-
ceiver listed in U.S.A. at 200 dollars ? (3) Is
any receiver manufactured in Australia com-
parable with Scott all-wave 11 -valve battery
model for tonal quality, range and selectivity ?
—407.
(1) No agent known. (2) Around £l5O. (3)
Perhaps not in finish, but certainly in all-round
performance. Watch advertisements in The
Bulletin.
* * * *
(1) I intend buying a dual-wave radio set,
complete except for batteries. I can obtain
a good commercial make locally, but consider
the price too high for my means. Several
dual-wave sets are advertised in a distant
city at less than half the price of those in my
town. Are they worth buying? (2) Is the
superheterodyne circuit superior in perform-
ance to the circuit mentioned in enclosed
Sydney advertisment ? —409.
(1) Quality counts in radio as with other
things. Stick to the dual-wave receivers made
by Bulletin advertisers. (2) The circuit re-
ferred to is a superhet.


•‘Sn.VER
EDGE ’*
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.'’
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LOHDOV, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V.C.
Be.
SS
WS
Be
S<€
%
Be
A Gauge is
unless accurate
- worse ; it is misleading
Accurate recording is the duty of a tyre gauge.
There is one gauge you can always depend on—
the KISMET. Behind its manufacture is 40
years’ experience in pneumatic engineering. It
is made by craftsmen in Sheffield, England, and
every gauge is subjected to five major tests
during production to ensure accuracy.
Handsomely finished and clearly numbered in
individual 11b. units on wide, flat surfaces.
Complete in neat leather wallet.
lest your lyres with a
KIISJUEf
TYRE GAUGE
Sole Manufacturers: W U
WILXIAM TURNER & BROS., EXD., 1 I
Sheffield, England. ”
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l
The Steering Column.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MODERN
ENGINES.
LIGHTER RECIPROCATING MASSES AND HIGH
COMPRESSION HEADS.
BY FRED BERRY.
/COMPARING the modern automobile engine with its proto-
type of a decade ago, the novice motorist would observe
little difference in external appearance except, perhaps, that
the older model “looked nicer” by reason of the hand-finishing
then fashionable. There, however, the similarity ceases, for,
while fundamental principles have scarcely altered, the per-
formance, both in terms of power output and flexibility, is
vastly better in the new types. Some of the technical reasons
for this amazing improvement are explained in this article.
Improved combustion-chamber design,
higher compression pressures and the use
of light reciprocating parts have been in
the main chiefly responsible for the high
efficiency shown by the stock model
engines fitted to this year’s cars.
Every competition driver has learned
from experience that one of the essen-
tial jobs in super-tuning an engine is to
raise the compression ratio as high as
Copperising inside of cylinder head
{represented by heavy black line) reflects
heat back into combustion chamber.
possible. Every few pounds gained in
compression pressure will mean an
appreciable increase in power output,
and the ultimate value will depend upon
and be limited by individual combus-
tion-chamber design and the character
of the fuel to be used. In earlier-type
engines, with compression ratios ranging
from 4 to 4.5 1c 1 and fitted with
conventional design of head, it was
seldom possible to exceed a compression
pressure of 801 b. (about 5.2 to 1) without
detonation occurring when operating on
full load.
Tuning for Speed.
In such cases, where maximum speed
was the sole object and where of
necessity ratios were higher, expensive
“doped” fuels were used in order
to slow down the flame rate and
avoid detonation. In modern engines
compression ratios of 6.5 to 1 and 7 to 1
are common, and, while these motors de-
liver a far greater power output per
cubic inch displacement than do the
older motors, they can be, owing to the
design of the combustion chamber,
operated successfully on straight fuels
without fear of “knocking” or detona-
tion, whilst such features as idling and
flexibility are equally good. The
splendid hill-climbing properties com-
mon in this year’s cars are almost en-
tirely due to the greater power output
made possible by the use of higher com-
pression ratios; furthermore, as the
power curve rises steeply at relatively
low engine revs., the machine may be
driven slowly in top gear up steep grades
. without fuss or laboring, while gear-
changing is seldom necessary, except in
an emergency.
Ratio and Pressures.
Everything else being equal, power
output increases directly with the increase
in compression pressure. The following
table reveals the great progress that has
been made during recent years:-
COMPRESSION AND PRESSURES.
Com- Com- Com- Com-
pression pression pression pression
Ratio. Pressure. Ratio. Pressure.
4.00 55.5 5.50 88.5
4.10 57.5 5.60 90.5
4.20 59.5 5.70 92.0
4.25 60.5 5.75 92.5
4.30 61.5 5.80 95.0
4.40 63.5 5.90 97.0
4.50 65.5 6.00 99.0
4.60 67.5 6.10 101.5
4.70 70.0 6.20 102.5
4.75 70.5 6.25 103.5
4.80 72.0 6.30 105.5
4.90 73.5 6.40 107.5
5.00 76.0 6.50 109.5
5.10 78.0 6.60 112.5
5.20 80.0 6.70 113.5
5.25 82.0 6-.80 114.0
5.30 84.0 6.90 116.5
5.40 86.5 7.00 118.5
For the information of motorists desir-
ing to make check calculations on indi-
vidual motors, the compression pressure
is determined by means of a gauge
screwed into the cylinder head after re-
moving a spark plug. The motor, cold,
is turned over compression by hand. In
ascertaining the compression ratio, it will
be necessary to measure the piston dis-
placement (bore squared x .7854 x stroke)
and the volume of the combustion
chamber. As an illustration, assume
swept volume by piston to be 400 c.c. and
combustion chamber volume 100 c.c.,
then the compression ratio is 100 plus
400 divided by 100 = 5 to 1 ; in other
words, the value of the compression ratio
shows the relation between volume of the
combustion chamber and the total dis-
placement.
Copperising Heads.
Efficient and successful though the
modern cylinder head and combustion
chamber may be, recent research in re-
gard to plating heads with certain metals
has resulted in still higher engine effi-
ciency owing to conservation of heat. For
some time it has been known that engines
prone to detonate under load can be
“quietened” by spraying the head with
aluminium, while at the same time power
output and general performance were im-
proved. In practice certain inherent
drawbacks were found in using alu-
minium, chief being a difficulty in get-
ting the metal to bond with cast-iron and
its consequent liability tb dislodgment
during the process of decarbonisation.
Further, whenever carbon deposit be-
came heavy the good effect of “alu-
miniumising” disappeared. A new pro-
cess whereby heads are copperised has,
according to tests conducted by the
“Practical Motorist,” shown remarkable
results. The system depends for its effi-
ciency upon heat reflection. Normally,
when gas is ignited in the combustion
chamber an appreciable amount of heat
is absorbed by the surrounding metal and
lost through the cooling water. Copper-
plating appears to reflect heat back into
the combustion chamber, with consider-
able improvement in efficiency.
During tests it was found that the heat-
reflecting efficiency of the plating was not
affected by a reasonable amount of car-
bon deposit, showing that the copper has
the property of radiating through the
carbon. Another advantage is that
copperplating is permanent. It is impos-
sible to separate the metals without grind-
ing, none is dislodged in the process of
decarbonising, and the smooth surface
facilitates removal of the deposit.
In the process under notice the com-
plete head is plated to a thickness of
five thou., a heavier deposit being ap-
plied in special cases where it is desired
to reduce combustion-chamber size with-
out machining the head.
To secure full benefits from “copper-
ising” the compression ratio can be raised
slightly by fitting a thin Klingerit gasket
instead of the usual c.a. type, a smaller
main jet can be used in the carburettor
and ignition can be advanced a few
degrees beyond standard setting. Though
the improvements that may be expected
Modern design of combustion chamber
used in side-by-side valve motors. Note
offset valve.
High-compression head and valve gear
used in late-type overhead valve engines.
after fitting a copperplated head depend
to a great extent upon the design and
efficiency of the original head, it is
claimed that an all-round increase in
power and reduction in fuel consumed
of from 10 to 15 p.c. can be confidently
expected, while acceleration
and flexibility and smooth-
ness at low speeds show dis-
tinct improvement.
Alloy Pistons.
Coincident with the in-
crease in efficiency due to
combustion-chamber design
has been a general tendency
to use alloy pistons and
light connecting rods, with
the result that acceleration
in all gears has been im-
proved considerably, whilst
bearing loads have been
correspondingly reduced.
The controversy as to the
relative merits of iron and
alloy pistons has been
fiercely waged for some
years, those sponsoring iron
pistons claiming less cylin-
der wear, absence of slap
and less oil consumption
than would be the case with
alloy. On the other hand,
designers specifying alloy
pistons have definite and
tangible evidence in support
of their claims of increased
performance, efficiency and
economy. Metallurgists
have now devised formulae
for light alloys whereby the
finished product can be
machined, and works effec-
tively, to the same close
limits as is common with
iron; whilst the electro-
chemical process of harden-
ing the surface of alloy pis-
tons has for all practical
purposes effectively laid the bogey
of cylinder wear. There are, of
course, a few popular and successful
makes of cars still using iron pistons (in
A SIMPLE READY-RECKONER TO FIND
AVERAGE SPEED.
Knowing distance travelled in miles (left
column) and time of journey (right column),
place the straight edge of an envelope on each
figure and the average speed in m.p.h. can be
read off the central scale. Example shows 82
miles in 2hr. 50min., average speed 29 m.p.h.


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
lA \CA'*
t e9'° C %
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WfNDSOR
! CANADA
H^MPION
SPARKING-PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
▲
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machln & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
The Largest Circulations
In Queensland.
THE
COURIER-MAIL
The net average cir-
culation for October,
1935, was 69,061 copies
daily. Here is by far
the largest circulation in the Queensland daily field and
the essential basis of any Queensland campaign.
THE
SUNDAY MAIL
Second only to “The
Courier-Mail” in cir-
culation, “The Sunday
Mail” enjoyed a net
circulation of 64,686 copies per issue for October, 1935*
Obviously it must be the second medium selected for any
Queensland campaign.
Enquire about the Combined Advertising Rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building. Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative; R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
some cases tin-coated), yet an analysis
of British, Continental and American
specifications shows that alloy pistons
greatly predominate.
Bearing Loads.
Disregarding for the moment the pros
and cons of cylinder wear, it must be
apparent to any motorist with even ele-
mentary mechanical knowledge that cer-
tain definite advantages must be secured
by using lightweight pistons and rods.
With regard to big-end bearing loads, the
following data, obtained from a test on
a popular 4cyl. sports engine, using alter-
nately iron and alloy pistons, are im-
pressive. Bearing loads due to inertia
forces were measured in four d.c. posi-
tions of the crankshaft:
(1) T.D.C. at commencement of suc-
tion stroke.
(2) B.D.C. at end of suction stroke.
(3) T.D.C. firing point.
(4) B.D.C. end of power stroke.
In position 1 big-end load in pounds,
with aluminium pistons weighing 12|0z.,
was 9001 b. ; with iron pistons,
16201 b. Position 2, 860 and 1240; posi-
tion 3, 1095 and 1365 ; position 4, 1030
16201 b. to 9001 b.
The advantages of light alloy pistons
are therefore apparent, as the maximum
big-end bearing load is reduced from
16201 b. to 10301 b.
In addition to reciprocating forces there
is also a considerable centrifugal force
generated by the big-end assembly as it
rotates round the crankpin. In the engine
tested the big-end assembly weighed
5.30 z., and, with a crank radius of 2in.
and running at 4000 r.p.m., a force of
3061 b. was generated, which must of
course be added to the bearing loads due
to inertia. So we find the modern cars
fitted with thin steel-backed bearings,
held together by high tensile, lightweight
Split-skirt alloy piston with four rings.
Note mass of metal used, which gives
great strength and assists in rapidly dissi-
pating heat.
bolts instead of the heavy brass journals
and massive bolts commonly used in
older-type motors.
Finally, although the modern engine
is so much more powerful and efficient
than its prototype, yet, owing to refine-
ments in methods of mounting and to
the almost general use of some type of
torsional vibration damper on the crank-
shaft, power is delivered to the transmis-
sion without perceptible fuss or vibra-
tion ; whilst an efficient air cleaner and
silencer eliminates induction-pipe hiss,
and newly-designed fan blades minimise
power roar at high engine revs.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
G.O’B. (Sale, Vic.). —My ’33 model car gives
trouble each time a long trip is made. Short
runs are no worry. Fuel pump is working,
although symptoms are similar to starvation
of petrol. Whenever the stop occurs the car
goes again if left standing for 10 minutes.
Any suggestions ?
Symptoms correspond with those of vapor
lock or petrol shortage. Check fuel lines and
see no part is close to hot exhaust. Other-
wise try a new coil. Sometimes a wire be-
comes loose in the winding when hot.
* * * *
G. (Mt. Gambier, S.A.). —Recently my
’2B model car began to pull badly in hilly
country, and, although only decarbonised 8000
miles ago, I was advised to have it done again
and new rings fitted. The trouble still persists,
though mechanics have checked adjustments
of motor and valve timing carefully. What
should be done ?
Provided the engine still retains reasonable
compression and all adjustments are correct,
the only reason for poor pulling will be a
dirty exhaust line and muffler, setting up ex-
cessive back pressure. Try first disconnecting
exhaust pipe in front of muffler, and if im-
provement is shown have unit thoroughly
cleaned and make certain baffle plates are
intact and not blocking the free flow of
gas.
$ * * *
H. —Will oil named be suitable for a
Willys 77, ’2B model, mileage 2500 p.a. ?
Yes.
* * * *
M.H. (Bogantungan, Q.). —My ’36 model car
is very low at the back, allowing bumpers to
scrape gullies. Springs are straight. Would
it be advisable to have them set up, giving
another two or three inches clearance ?
Unless front and rear are both raised an
equal distance the car will be thrown out of
balance and steering will be affected. Suggest
first having bumpers raised to give additional
clearance at rear.
* * * *
J.K. (Carlton, Vic.). —The clutch of my car
slips when engine is hot, and it is difficult
to get from first to second without crashing
when engine is cold. Is there any adjustment
to correct this trouble ?
Clutch in your car is Borg and Beck single-
plate dry-disc type, and evidently oil leaks
from the sump through the back main bearing
into the clutch housing. This means that,
when cold, oil congeals and prevents the plates
from separating properly, and when hot the
warm oil causes slip. Only remedy is to drop
sump and take up play in rear main bearing,
prevent oil leaking through and thoroughly
wash clutch parts with petrol or paraffin.
R.D. (Warialda, N.S.W.).—(I) My ’35 model
2>Qcwt. truck (3000 miles ) idles unevenly, and
when accelerator is pressed down suddenly
the engine stops. When throttle is opened
suddenly on any gear engine splutters until
choke is pulled out, when it picks up again.
Motor pulls well when travelling fast, but
fires erratically when speeding up from low
speeds. What s wrong? (2) When will the
Nash Eight be tested .
(1) Symptoms indicate serious air leak in
induction system. Inspect all gaskets and
packings, and fit new gasket if fault is located.
Alternatively, check up tappet clearance and
‘ £ ao
'
R.J. (Murchison, Vic.). — (I) What is the usual
oil pressure for a National Chevrolet at 25
m.p.h. ? My car shows 10-12 lb. cold, but drops
to lib. or Zlb. when hot. What should be
_ „„„„ . 9
done. (2) What is maximum speed. ()
Some tune ago I chipped a tooth off a P™
»i the dip., forcing crown wheel about 1-32 in.
out of line. Any way of tiuing ap .
(D Normal pressure is about 15lb Drop
sump, clean gauge filters and check pump
mechanism. Also fit a new release va
oil hne, located on left side of engine, cost
about ? ’ s> 6d (2) with car in goo d mechanical
condition, maximum speed should be approxi-
mately 55 ni p .h. (3) Only sure remedy is to
fit new crown w heel and pinion (£2 Bs. 6d.),
and in do j ng so check alignment of hemisphere
on w i lich crown wheel is carried.
...
.. «/ a x r„. „
A.J.A.X. (Manjimup, W.A.). Is oidmaiy
castor oil suitable for a motor-car engine, and
is there any risk of piston rings gumming up
through using it. .
Castor oil is used in certain types ot racing
engines, but only after Passing through a
special chemical process. Ordinary castor is
not suitable except in an emergency, with
nothing else available.
Diesel Engine to Attempt Records.
Bonneville, Salt Lake (Utah), is again
humming with activity in preparing
ground organisation for a number of rival
camps which propose in the near future
to attempt to lift records established
last year. Even Malcolm Campbell’s
amazing run of 301.12 m.p.h. may pos-
sibly be bettered, for John Cobb, another
notable British racing motorist, is having
a special machine built to a design by
Reid Railton, the English engineer re-
sponsible for Campbell’s Blue Bird.
The new machine will be streamlined
along lines determined after wind tunnel
experiments, and the two Napier aero
engines will be powerful enough to attain
a theoretical speed of 350 m.p.h.
Almost ready for trials is another twin-
engined machine, built by an American
syndicate, almost a replica of Mal-
colm Campbell’s Blue Bird so far as body
profile is concerned, but powered with
two Packard motors, the theoretical speed
being 360 m.p.h.
Of still greater interest is the proposal
of Capt. G. E. T. Eyston and his team to
attack long-distance records with a fuel
oil (Diesel) engined car. Eyston already
has covered 3372 miles in a run twice
round the clock, averaging 140 m.p.h.
In this run the power unit used was a
21,000 c.c. Rolls Royce engine, but the
new motor will be a 17,000 c.c. V-type
Diesel owned by the British Air Ministry
and destined, if successful in tests, for use
by the Royal Air Force, so that its per-
formance will be watched with keen
interest.
Why Plugs Fail.
Motorists seeking maximum perform-
ance and smooth running usually find
it a good plan to change sparking plugs
after 10,000 or 15,000 miles have been
-covered, but few really know the reason
why advantage is obtained, particularly
when the old set appears to be firing
regularly.
Tests conducted recently by Pyrox ex-
perts show that a deposit which becomes
burned into the insulator becomes a con-
ductor of electricity at high tempera-
tures. Experiments show that a saving of
up to four miles per gallon is not un-
usual when new plugs are fitted. Once
accumulations of oil and carbon have be-
come burnt into the porcelain insulator
of a plug there is always a possibility
of misfiring, and although a plug may
give a satisfactory test when cold, out-
side the combustion chamber, under the
great heat of working conditions missing
frequently occurs.


“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your' outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age,”'has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by. its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and -complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St,
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
HIGH PRAISE
IS GIVEN
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
All the news from everywhere
. . . All Saturday’s sport . . . First
in the State for pictorial interest
. . . Packed with entertainment in
its magazine sections . . Features
amd advertising in four colors.
A.B.C. Certificate, 61.3ft1.
Where else
Could YOU
Advertise
7
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. Worth terrace,
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newspaper House Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F A Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
liET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Duilding, Sydney; A. G, Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
"The Examiner," established 1842, is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North—the home of two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates
of ‘‘The Examiner" and "Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
(hammer
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
yt/tcAn-uzy
T^al/y
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD,, 71-75 Palerson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W, Bank Chambers, 368 Coilins-st,, Melbourne C 1
W. G, DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
THE POWER
TO DO THE JOB..
The position that enables us to
reach every corner of the West.
We have them both!
Broadcasting- from the top of
the ranges on our new power «f
1000 watts, 6AM is a sure money-
getter for the n an who has any-
thing to sell to country folk.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth, '
Western Australia.
She threw her head back and laughed a long,
rippling laugh. No, of course not! What makes you
think that?”
“That time you were in Longreach at the hotel.
They told me you were Mrs. Barlow.”
The girl simmered with merriment, “Good
heavens, no! I was travelling with Mrs. Barlow, and
the room was booked in her name. That’s probably
how it happened.” She threw an accusing look at
him. “You are the base deceiver! Lancelot, alias
Bill Muir!”
Bill blinked. “How do you know? Who told
you ray name?”
“No one gave away your secret. But when Bob
Mac Andrew told us about his partner and his mania
for horses my innocent questions brought a close
description of my old friend Lancelot. Quite simple,
isn’t it?” •
But Bill did not join in her merriment. He was
suddenly and deadly serious, confronted by a dis-
turbing conviction that must be settled one way or
the other. -
“Then you—you must be the girl”—; —
She looked at him inquiringly.
“The one that Mac” Bill stammered and got
stuck, then plunged desperately on. “Didn’t you and
Mac go to school together?”
“We had the same governess when we were kids,
if that’s what you mean.”
“Then,” he began, and stopped hopelessly. An
icy-cold stream was pouring in on his muddled
thoughts, quenching the gathering conflagration inside
him and putting out the fire in his eyes as the situa-
tion slowly dawned on him. He released the girl s
hands and took the reins of the impatient mare.
“I’ll let your horse go,” he said quietly, and
busied himself releasing buckles with hands that
moved mechanically without need of help from his
numbed brain.
Elaine watched him in a perturbed silence. The
injured side of his face was toward her ; the drooping
lid and twisted corner of the mouth shielded his
thoughts and feelings like a mask. The change in
his manner had been so complete—so sudden. What
was the reason for his insistent questions about her
and Bob? Then the tension of her features slowly
relaxed in a faint smile. So that was it!
She fell into step beside him as he led the un-
saddled horse to the paddock, and plied him with
questions about his trip, about the cattle ; then adroitly
switched on to the subject of his horses. Gradually
the brief replies lengthened and began to lose their
flat, mechanical tone. How many horses had he
brought to Camelot? Only two! Why hadn’t he
brought all his plant and given them a good spell?
He threw her a searching glance from the corner
of an eye, and there was more than a hint of sarcasm
in his reply.
“If I brought thirty horses down through this
State they’d reckon it was a. travelling circus. Any-
how,” he added casually, “it wouldn’t be much of
a spell. I’ll be going back in a day or two.”
She leaned against the paddock gate and looked
levelly at him for a moment, then she asked seriously,
“Did Bob give any reasons for asking you to come
here?”
“Nothing definite. I don’t see how I can help
him. It’s hard luck that he’s laid up, but he could
find dozens of better men than me. I’m not a sheep-
man.”
“Wait a minute!” Her expression was serious.
The last hint of flippancy had left her, and tiny crows’
feet gathered at the corners of her eyes. Somehow,
Bill was beginning to realise that this girl was different
from the Elaine of Longreach. The old, gay spirit had
bubbled up at their first meeting, but now he was
finding a depth to her character, a maturity that
enhanced rather than detracted from his original im-
pression of the girl.
“Did Bob mention anything about Camelot —our
financial position, or anything connected with it?”
Seeing him hesitate, she went on. “I may as
well tell you frankly that our position is—well, it’s
serious! It took me a long time to realise it. We
always seemed to have plenty of money to spend, and
even when we gave up our home in Sydney and settled
here I didn’t realise the real reason. Even after mother
died it was a long time before‘daddy took me into
his confidence and gave me an inkling of things.
“Poor old' daddy! He’s an . idealist—always
wanted to have the best sheep, the best horses; and
all his life he has been so unbusinesslike that really
we’re lucky to be still here. He has been fleeced by
managers ; he always seems to have bought sheep
when "prices were high and sold when they were low.
For the last few years I’ve tried to steady things a
bit, but our bad luck still clings to us. Remember
that big fire some years ago when a city woolstore
was burned to the ground? We lost all our wool
in that.
“The rise in wool prices helped a bit, but for
years our sheep have been disappearing—we don’t
know how. Bob thought he had discovered a clue—
he worked day and night, on his own place and help-
ing me here ; then he got sick. Since then more sheep
have gone. When Bob found he would be shut up
for six weeks he sent for you. And that’s the posi-
tion.” she concluded simply.
Bill considered a while in silence, then he asked:
“Do you suspect anyone in particular?”
The girl shook her head slowly. “I really couldn’t
say! Old Mr. Mac Andrew blamed the overseer we
had, but after he left the losses still went on.”
“Did he go to another job?”
“No. He bought a small place about fifty miles
away. I thought he was quite all right. He was a
good man with sheep, and his dogs were wonderful.”
Bill nodded abstractedly. He would have to get
Mac’s version. As they walked slowly back to the
homestead Elaine asked quietly, “Have you seen
daddy?”
“Yes, when I arrived. He was anxious to see
the horses.”
“Yes. He’s awfully keen on good horses. We
have one or two quite good ones here in spite of the
fact that we don’t live in Queensland.”
He smiled at the sly dig as he held open the
gate for her. She gestured despairingly at the
neglected garden.
“Isn’t this wilderness a depressing sight! I’m
afraid we’ll have to let the horses in to keep it down.
We used to keep a gardener once, but now!” She
shrugged eloquently, then her manner changed, and
the grey eyes sparkled mischievously under the long
eyelashes. ,
“I suppose I’ll have to call you Bill now. Or
perhaps I’d better stick to Mr. Muir.”
“Please yourself. Miss Atherton! ”
She advanced threateningly on him. •
“Lancelot, if you ever call me Miss Atherton m
that tone of voice—or in any other 111 slay Y
the spot! I’m going to call you Bill to a
plications. By the bye, did you -ever e
anyone—about our meeting in Longieac .
“I told Bob what happened to the car that night,
but mentioned no names.. He drew his own
sions, and I didn’t trouble to argue with him. 1
he wouldn’t believe me.”
“Bob is a bit Victorian in his ideas about women
although if I admitted to anyone at all that I
the night at your camp —in your bed it would o;
very hard to convince them that I’m not a
woman.”
She chuckled softly. “Bob was quite upset at
missing me. I didn’t let him know I was arriving ,
in fact, we didn’t expect to stop in Longreach, an
I really tried to get him on the telephone from the
hotel, but couldn’t raise him.” .
“No wonder! He was in town at the time him-
self. I tried to get him to come-to the dance, but he
wouldn’t. He stayed away from the races no interest
in horses, and he never bets, although I did my best
to get him to come in on the black, filly that time we
made the clean-up.”
He stopped, then added thoughtfully, I wonder
if things would have turned out differently if he had
met you then!”
“Why do you ask that?”
“I don’t know.” He answered offhandedly, and
they continued along the path in silence.
Alone in his room, Bill leaned back in a chair
and let his divided attention wander between an in-
spection of his new quarters and an attempt to sort
out the tangle of his thoughts and feelings. It was
a big, high-ceilinged room, tastefully furnished and
opening on to a wide verandah that looked out toward
the eastern hills. Bill decided to sleep out on the
verandah where he could see the stars when he woke
at his usual hour for going on watch and enjoy the
luxury of turning over and going to sleep again till
daylight.
The sound of a fast-moving car grew louder, and
he stepped out on the verandah as it pulled up ; a
stoutish, middle-aged man in a white dustcoat got
out and walked straight toward the house like one
who was well acquainted with it, and Bill returned
to his room.
Two incidents stood out in his mind above all
others —two that he would not previously have thought
could have affected him in the slightest. First, the
shock of meeting Elaine again, then the discovery
that she was the girl Mac had worked for —dreamed
of —since he was a boy. His first inclination had been
to saddle up and ride back to Queensland where
Percy was waiting with the horses. Only the recollec-
tion of Mac’s urgent appeal for help had momentarily
stayed him ; then Elaine’s frank statement had caused
him to postpone the impulse, but he knew he could
not stay on here under the same roof.
He would spend a few days riding round the
property, starting out at daylight and returning at
dark, and he could always plead tiredness to evade
the possibility of social contact in the evenings; then
if he found that the job was beyond him he could
say so and go north again.
There was a tap at the door, then Elaine’s voice:
“Can you spare a moment, Bill?”
{To be continued next week.)


.
-v: ;■,
l J hoto. Kay UaUghan.
Mr . W. J, Ennever
Founder of The Pelnian Institute.
Three of the many
distinguished
Pelmanists.
fdfd
* Dr. r. w. nou wood. d.d..
Tile World's .Evangelist.
“Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood of
the City Temple. Loudon, says,
“is sound Psychology and an
admirable system of Mind-train-
ing A proper grasp of Pelman-
ism would save any life from
futility Pelmanism tea c h e s
that man has the key to his own
career and enables many to dud
the key.”
mm
■ t
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.
“Pelmanism.” says Dame Sybil
Thorndike, “gives mind exercise
scientifically. It not only im-
proves, but actually discovers,
qualities that would otherwise
have remained dormant.”
■
■
m
T.ORD BADEK-I’OVVELL.
“I feel that no man—no matter
how educated or what his age—
who seriously takes up the course
can go through it without im-
proving himself.”
Many other distinguished men and
women who are Felinanists are
quoted in the Pehnari Book, “The
Efficient Mind.”
The Confidence that
Pelmanism Gives
PLUMBS
Pe IMANISM DEVE lops
MCMORV
“ ‘Can’t’
has slipped
out of my
vocabulary,”
writes a Pelman
student.
“That great handicap. Inferiority
Consciousness, has gone for 'ever.
‘Can’t’ has just slipped out of my
vocabulary. The Course has broadened
my mind more than five years of life
could have done.. I have been able to
distinguish the hollow things of life and
—pushing them into the background—
have discovered what a really wonderful
world this is.”
’"THIS remarkable letter is one of thousands
* received by the Pel man Institute. It
will come as a, message of hope to many of
those who are handicapped by any of those
defects; —
Diffidence.
Shyness.
Timidity.
Self-Depreciation.
Lack of Self-
confldcn.ce.
Lack of Social
Courage.
Fear of Failure.
Fear of Taking
Responsibility.
Fear of doing some-
thing unusual or out
of the ordinary.
Hesitation.
And all those weak-
nesses and fallings
which are associated
Fear of the Future.
with the phrase,
The Inferiority Complex.
one of the greatest handicaps that can
burden any man or woman to-day.
For, as the above letter shows and students
of Pelmanism know, this inferiority handi-
cap can be completely overcome and the
word “can’t” can be eliminated from every-
one's vocabulary by Pelmanisin. scientific
mind training which all can follow, which
takes up very little time and is as interesting
to practise as it is effective in its results.
People
whose
Talents
are Wasted
There are few
weaknesses s o
harmful as the
feeling of personal
inferiority. 11
injures your pros-
pects of success.
It strikes at the
very root of your
happiness.
a
'KmSL"’
*
C*
iu
Prumanism develops
RESOURCEFULNESS
Yon may be extremely talented in many
directions. But if you have no confidence
in yourself these talents will be largely
wasted.
As a matter of fact, inferiority conscious-
ness is often found in association with
mental gifts that are above the ordinary;
for it is particularly liable to be harboured
by the Sensitive temperament, which is fre-
quently associated with keen intelligence.
The mind of the “Sensitive,” freed from this
hostile influence, may be capable of great
and even soaring achievements, if only it is
trained in the right way, and that, as the
letter already quoted shows, is the Telman
way.
People who are Afraid
This lack of Self-confidence, this feeling of
Inferiority, these wretched fears or phobias,
take different forms with different people.
There are people even to-day who shrink
from using the telephone. There are many
people who are afraid to open the door of
their employer's room, There are people
who allow their rights to be taken from
them, who are pushed aside by more deter-
mined rivals, who are tongue-tied when
questioned, who are afraid to act because
they do not know what the consequences
wili be.
Fears Banished and Self-Confidence
Developed
...
■m
PEUMANIVSM develops
CONC E KIT PAT' O M
Here art 1 a few
reports taken at
random from' tlm
.tens of thousands
of similar state
monts that could
be quoted did
space permit■
“Cured T’ear.”—
“Pel uranism, ba s
cured fbe fear of
self and of failure
to keep pace with
my colleagues at
the office, the tear
of criticism. of
in t. e.r y lews, of
social .company and of rush periods. 1 have
also learnt bow to control the fear of the
unexpected.”
•‘lnferiority Complex is Dead.” — “1 have
rid myself of all fears of the future. The
inferiority complex is dead. The Course has
improved my Memory. 1 have now a definite
aim in life."
“Improved Concentration.” —“Increased
Self-Confidence. Improved Concentration.
Quicker Decisions, Pelinan principles applied
to an ordinary round day's work make it
an interesting, sometimes an absorbing pro-
cedure.”
“Personality has Developed.”—-“3 have lost
nervous fear, I am more self-confident. 1
take more interest in Nature and everything
in general. I have also more interest in; my
work. My powers of Observation are better
now than I have ever known them to be
before. My personality lias developed, and
I have gained a lot in knowledge,”
“Confidence in Myself.”—-‘‘The Course has
given me what I required, namely. I have
regained eorifidence in myself. I am more
businesslike. My mind is better balanced
than it was before. 1 am not at the mercy
of ray emotions, and my general health has
improved.”
Correspondence Instruction
' Pelmamsm in a
system of Prac-
tical Psychology
which is taught
through the post
by expert instruc-
tors and is prac-
tised b y t h e
student in his or
her own time and
place. Amongst
the mental dispo-
sitions developed ■>
by Pelmanism are
the following:—
Self-Confidence
Moral Courage
.Good -Judgment
Initiative
Observational Power
Dctermin at i on
Decisiveness
Directive Ability
Pelmanism DEveuopa
PRESENCE OF MIND
Concentration
Organising Power
Self-Control
Social Ease
Resourcefulness
Creative Imagination
Reliability
A Reliable Memory
'“•Vx /»-
D>BC
Pet. man ism develops
SALESMANSHIP
and all those
qualities which
help to build up
Character, to con-
stitute a vivid,
strong Personality,
and to increase
Income - Earning
Power.
Pelraanism' i s
a necessity to
every man and
every woman who
wishes to do good
work, to ensure a
good income, and
10 make the; best of the mental
qualities with which all have been endowed
but that so many have neglected to culti-
vate, Cultivate your mind on Pelman lines
and Success will follow. Knrol to-day for a
Course of Pelmanism; «
A copy of “The
Efficient Mind,"
7(> lip., in which
many people spoil;
of Pelnmnism from
personal experience
and trhich contains
the opinions of
t’elmanism contri-
buted hy «• number
of the most it is ■
tinyiiished m e n
and women in the
Empire, will be
sent free on
application.
f
Write or use the Request Form below:
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
©S.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind , Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation. Its headquarters are in
London. The Institute in Melbourne has
been established for 27 years.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
CUT OUT OR COPY THIS AND POST TO-DAY.
THE PELMAN' INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. I.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind."
Name
Address
433
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
K
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue,
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
-V-
-*l'
.(V
x
c.V o>®*\> <iO*' «.0* ..•• ..•
x . & .••• ..
* l» </&**s ” ~ao
\' e
X& <fi\
j*
o x
$
£ S
•*‘V V^
A C S "> V V 0t
ofP S e -*
.•••'■ rf&SWP**'


STARVED
NERVES . . . CAUSE
NERVINESS . LISTLESSNESS
NERVE PAINS . NERVOUS-
HEADACHES .SLEEPLESSNESS.
NERVOUS INDIGESTION.
y
tm. m
* ’|% | ... x
V'P/'v \
s* *
AMAZING REPORTS
FROM USERS
Originals of reports quoted below
may be inspected at our office'.
PALE. LIFELESS. HALF SICK ALL
THE TIME
Ashfield, Sydney, N.S.W
"BIDOMAK”
Dear Sir,
When I purchased two bottles of "Bid-
omak” after hearing of its worth, I ex-
pected good results and got them, which
Is more than I can say of the many
other tonics I have taken. As an ex-
tremely hard case of nerves and depres-
sion, I feel capable of judging a tonic of
worth, for I have spent pounds on sup-
posedly excellent tonics to no avail —but
“Bidomak” has solved my problem. It
is the-only tonic, out of the many that I
know, that I would advocate to my
friends. Economical and efficacious with
lasting good results. “Every dose seems a
blessing” is how I would adequately de-
cribe it.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) Mrs, D.T.
(Original of this letter on our files.)
BIDOMAK
MAKES THEM WELL OR COSTS YOU NOTHING
Look at the Illustration of healthy and
unhealthy nerve tissues shown on this
page. Then you will realise how seriously
nervous disorders can affect you generally.
Worry, financial strain, overwork, drain
the system of the vital mineral foods
which are necessary to life Itself. Modern
food does not replace them. The result
of anaemia starved nerves, resulting In
recurrent headaches, nerve pains, neuritis
or neuralgia. Bidomak replaces these
minerals in the system. It provides iron,
lime, potash, soda in liquid phosphorised
form, for quick assimilation and results.
BIDOMAK RESTORES HEALTH.
BUILDS UP BLOOD
Bidomak provides Iron to build good,
rich blood, and Increase the supply of
oxygen in the blood-stream. This oxygen
Is used to burn up waste in the tissues
and give the other ingredients in Bidomak
a chance to do you good.
BIDOMAK BUILDS NERVES
Bidomak contains assimilable phosphor-
us, which helps to keep the brain and
nerves alert and vigorous. Phosphorus
is absolutely necessary for well being in
this respect.
BIDOMAK HELPS DIGESTION
Bidomak provides sodium in the form
of phosphates and glycerophosphates.
These tone up the gastric nerves and
increase digestive powers. Even small
children or convalescing invalids may
take Bidomak without reaction or harm-
ful effects.
BIDOMAK BUILDS STRONG BONES
AND TEETH
More than 47 per cent of the solid
weight of the body is calcium. A de-
ficiency of this important mineral causes
tooth decay—rickets in children, and may
be the cause of rheumatism, gout, and
similar crippling disorders. Bidomak
therefore contains calcium to build up
strong bones and teeth, and complete the
work of the other vital foods.
WHY BIDOMAK DOES GOOD SO
QUICKLY
Bidomak does good so quickly because
all the minerals are provided in a pre-
dissoived liquid form. They are then
absorbed at once, and can begin their
healing action from the very first moment
they are taken into the stomach.
WHY BIDOMAK IS SAFE
There is not one single substance con-
tained in Bidomak which is not present
in a perfectly healthy human body.
Bidomak feeds, does not drug, and
builds up permanently, starved nerves,
blood, muscles and brain.
i
VtCf'Vl
'MX-
fit
&
•V,
The top illustration shows healthy
nerve tissue, the bottom sketch shows
inflamed shrunken tissue due to min-
eral starvation. No wonder nerves cry
out in pain and sufferers become list-
less and down. Bidomak builds up
starved nerves and makes them well
and healthy.
Benefit Guaranteed
Or YOU PAY
NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have
obtained immediate relief from
RIDOMAK that If you do not
benefit by taking It. we will
refund your money within
14 days of purchase* on re-
turn of the nearly empty
RIDOMAK bottle to the Doug-
las Drug Co. Thus we guar-
antee you positive relief or
yon PAY NOTHING.
ASTOUNDING BENEFIT TO
CHILD
BALLADORAN,
sth October. 1935.
The Manager,
Douglas Drug Co.
SYDNEY,
Dear Sir.
My little boy had gastric flu at the age
of 2 years and it left his nerves in a
shocking state. He was irritable, cranky
and had sleepless nights, also no appetite
I was amost worried out of my mind, as
I had tried several tonics and prescrip-
tions recommended by our family doctor,
which were of no avail.
My little boy has had one bottle and a
half of Bldoraak and he looks the pic-
ture of health, and he is enjoying life.
You can use this letter in any way you
wish, and I'm sure anyone seeking the
help cannot go wrong with Bidomak.
Many thanks and best wishes for the
success Bidomak deserves.
1 am.
Your faithfully,
Mrs. G. F. McCarthy
(Original of this letter on our flies. I
ALL >
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
/.
3
m
Wm
wm
:
MM
6M
What to do
for
’FLU
Bidomak is not a cough remedy, not
a specific for colds, but, neverthe-
less, hundreds of sufferers from colds
and influenza report great benefit
from taking Bidomak. Bidomak
builds up the whole of the system,
in such a way that infection is fre-
quently avoided, or, even if a cold
or influenza is contracted, the attack
is not so severe because the vital
minerals in Bidomak make it pos-
sible for the body to deal with the
infective germs readily and natu-
rally. Bidomak is necessary at this
time of the year because bodily re-
sistance is lowered during the winter,
and it must be built up. Without the
minerals in Bidomak vitamins cannot
be made use of. That is another
important reason for taking Bidomak
during cold months.
AFTER ’FLU Bidomak benefits you
quickly, gets rid of that depress-
ing after-effect, prevents a relapse
and builds you up so rapidly that
bodily resistance is again restored and
renewed. Bidomak does this in a
perfectly natural way, is pleasant to *
take and cannot possibly have any
ill-effect. Get a bottle of Bidomak
to-day from any chemist or, store.
Take it to build up resistance against
winter colds and ’flu, or to restore
you to full health after an attack.
Amazing Benefits,
say users:
AFTER-EFFECTS OF ’FLU.
64 Wright’s Road,
Drummoyne, 25/7/’35.
Dear Sir,- —*
I can confidently recommend your
Bidomak to anyone suffering from weak-
ness and nervous debility or in a run-
down condition of health after ’flu.
Its effects, even after the first few
doses, are really magical.
Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) A.Q.
INFLUENZA.
71 Tenterden Road,
Botany.
Dear Sir,
I am writing this letter to you with
one thought in view—that it may help
others, suffering as I have been with
influenza and run down in health, to
regain their health if they try your tonic,
Bidomak.
I have been nursing my mother at my
home—she had a nervous collapse, and
I became ill with influenza, and with so
many duties to do I could not go to bed.
A friend of the family advised me to try
Bidomak. I bought a bottle, and to my
surprise found I could carry on my duties
and not go to bed. It strengthened me
and made me feel very different indeed.
I am now on the second bottle, and I can
truthfully and sincerely state that I owe
my recovery to Bidomak.
You may use this letter to help others.
You'rs faithfully,
(Sgd.) V.M.B.
FELT HALF-SICK ALL THE
TIME.
Olive Road,
St. Peters,
Sth. Aust.
Dear Sir,--—
About six weeks ago, before I started
taking Bidomak, I used to feel dizzy and
half-sick all the-time. 1 was pale and lifeless,
and I could not do my work. My sister
told me that I needed a tonic. She recom-
mended Bidomak because it' contained no
drugs. I did the wisest thing in my life
when I decided to take her advice. It
took only thr.ee bottles to make me feel
fit and well again. It is a pleasure for
me to do the work once again and enjoy
doing it as I did years ago.
Yours faithfully,
(Miss) I.P.
Originals of all letters on our files.
DOUGLAS DRUG CO. . . . ADELAIDE . . . SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . , . BRISBANE
