

BguJSjn
Mt
mr
SECURITY^
FUNDS EXCEED
£39,000,000.
THE
4Z~i*
'--a»
c:
VV
national Mutual
LIFE ASSOCIATION4 AUSTRALASIA LTD.
r*
The securities of the National Mutual tell the
story of careful selection of risks, high rate of
interest on funds, and low rate of management
expenses, making this Association the largest
purely mutual office in Australasia transacting
only ordinary life business. The Association does
not transact Industrial Insurance.
m
mM
v:
Offices:
VICTORIA:
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ft*
N.S.W.:
350 George Street, Sydney
5Sfc
And throughout Australasia, Great Britain, India, Ceylon, South
Africa and Straits Settlements.
3822
Premium quotations furnished on application. A special
representative will call if requested.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
iTlOft.OOO.OOO. .
fc-.t
:
s.
*V
T1
&
m
m
1
eSJLZ
'i
■W.il
m
r v
EE
•C; 2 '
«**
fX
N:
- V
S
mM
r —
The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2937.
Remember the Empire!
Wednesday, May 27, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Stoni Writing
J ■> «H HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son.
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more actsrwould be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close 'on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which wili not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
f The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work Submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize wilt be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
KINGDOM
OF A
DREAM
It is an amaz-
ing story that is
now printed for
the first time in
full, with an
adequate backing
of research and
first-hand knowledge, in The Phantom
Paradise (Angus and Robertson; 7s.
6d.). The authoress* Mademoiselle
Niau, is a daughter of one of those
who perished young through this
adventure of the Marquis de Rays’s ex-
pedition ; she is one, too, of a fine family
of colonists which it eventually estab-
lished in Australia. With her advantages
of inside knowledge, she has a gift o
placid writing and a detachment which
is remarkable in view of her vital interest
in the tragic events she relates.
The Marquis de Rays was an im-
poverished Breton nobleman. Whether he
was at bottom a great scoundrel or merely
a great dreamer with an impractica
mind, history may never determine
That he was a Celt born of a race of
Celts of high imagination favors him.
He appears to have had a mind capable
of envisioning great schemes revolving
round himself. He was an essentially
selfish type, that which can always be
depended on to let its victims carry the
burden when a dream dissolves.
The scene of his dreaming was a
France which had just been through the
Franco-Prussian War as a climax to a
century of revolution, bloodshed and
unrest. Frenchmen saw half their coun-
try occupied by man, bailiffs for payment
of a huge indemnity. They had seen
their capital starved by besiegers to
a point at which they lived on the rats
of the sewers. They had seen it and
their Empire and their greatness go up
in the fires of the Communards. They
were ready material for tha Utopian who
could envision their translation to anew
land, far remote from the turmoil and
dangers of a ravished Europe.
So De Rays launched his dream of
building anew kingdom in the
islands off New Guinea which are
now under Ausiralian tnandate. There
was New Ireland, with its 3000 square
miles, where he would begin. There was
New Britain next door, 13,000 square
miles. No white men had touched that
phantom paradise except a few mis-
sionaries and traders around the fringes.
It was inhabited by picturesque savage
races. Random voyagers had described
its beauties. The approach to the
channel which runs in where the two
islands almost meet, where tall moun-
tains stand up and golden-brown beaches
are washed by a lace of surf, overhung
by palms shadowed in a blue-grey, pel-
lucid sea stretching • out to a horizon
hung with tinted clouds, is one of the
unforgettable spectacles of the world.
De Rays had never seen this paradise ;
indeed he never saw it; but he developed
a full plan on paper for its transforma-
tion into a modern realm of opulence.
He would be its first monarch, Charles
I. of New France, with his dukes and
marquises culled from those who bought
sufficient domains, and counts and
barons lording it over anew, rich yeo-
manry, living on the proceeds of grain and
sugar produced by colored laborers. His
was a gorgeous bubble of a scheme made
iridescent to his war-weary capitalists
and toil-worn peasants by his oratory.
The marvel is that he picked such fer-
tile soil for his experiment and that the
results were so disastrous. The explana-
tion lies in the unbelievable negligence
which was shown in preparation and in
the type of ruffian who was selected to
implement the schemes of the founder.
The French Government opposed De
Rays; other Governments would have
none of him. The first ship of his
expeditions was compelled to sneak out
of port by night. From the moment it
sighted the African coast it was fugitive,
its deluded passengers, sustained with
rotten food, kept in Check with the
thumbscrew and other mediaeval tor-
tures. The settlement itself, which the
colonists had expected to find a neat
town and urban region of prepared dwell-
ings was merely an ill-found trading
station in one of the loneliest and
most unhealthy bays of the New Ireland
coast. Once landed, the settlers were
abandoned by those who brought them.
Missionaries from Port Hunter rescued
the remnant of them. Some went
through adventures out of which great
short stories could be fashioned. Yet
other ships were sent—-old, slow, five-
knot, rotten ships commanded by brutal
captains and managed by heartless
rogues. Dispersed by danger and hunger,
some voyagers sought refuge in neigh-
boring islands.
One party of six, including a young
Italian, Boero, found their way to Buka
in the North Solomons, where the natives
are black as pitch and strange humanity
was regarded as the roast beef of Old
England. They travelled in a leaking
canoe, tearing their shirts to pieces to
stop the inroads of the water and leav-
ing their backs unprotected from the blis-
tering, deceptive tropic sun. At Buka
none survived but Boero. The rest were
parcelled out as meat ration, and Boero
wept at their fate. The Bukans had never
seen a man weep, and they kept him on
condition that he should continue to weep
to amuse them. Weep he did until he
could weep no more. Then the absur-
dity of the situation appealed to his
lighter sense of humor, and he smiled.
And Buka had, never seen the Italian
smile—the smile is a refinement of
laughter unknown in that grim island.
So the way was made easier for him,
and so long as he smiled he lived. He
was still smiling assiduously, if some-
what wanly, when he was discovered liv-
ing on unpalatable remnants of the
human frame flung to him from the din-
ners of his captors. But after he had
been exchanged by the captain of the
Genii for two axes, he was an old and
broken man though still in his twenties,
and presently he died.
Many tales like this were printed when
the conditions were fully exposed by Dr.
Baudouin, and by survivors who told
their story to the reporter of the “Sydney
Morning Herald”—Thomas Courtney,
who lives to-day to testify to their state
when they arrived in Neutral Bay. Still,
however, De Rays, exiled from French
official wrath in Barcelona and conduct-
ing his operations under the Liberian
flag, had his ardent followers.
Jn 1883 he was extradited from Spain
into a France shocked to its depths. He
was unashamed. , While the Court was
listening to tales of colonists tortured by
savages on soldier-ant beds and the press
was united in a chorus of execration,
many of those who had subscribed to
his schemes were preparing an address in
which they declared that even if his
enemies compassed his death they would
cry “The King is dead—long live the
King,” and “immediately proclaim his
eldest son to be King Charles 11. of La
Nouvelle France.” This did not save
him from a four-year prison sentence.
After his release he appeared on the stage
again, but in 1893, ruined, he died.
By that time the Germans were re-
establishing the Territory of New Guinea
in the Bismarcks. The remains of the
French experimenters whom luck or
hardihood had saved had been trans-
lated to Australia. From Sydney to
the furthest north there are to-day
little colonies of their descendants who
testify to the quality of those who
risked their fate With the
Australians all, among them many who
fought in the AJ.F., some who were on
the shifts which in September, 1914, again
sighted the dreant passage which runs
between New Britain and New Ireland
and heard the German bullets zip along
the Bita Paka road in the fight which
made the Bismarcks Australian.
Mademoiselle Niau’s book is a work of
singular charm which one day may be
ranked as a classic. Bilingual, she has
curiously maintained a French atmo-
sphere and lucidity in written English
which is both virile and restrained. She
has tried to be judicial, but the shadow
is on her writing of the early struggles
which added fibre to the character of
her co-patriots. It helps to lend her
story an air of convincing truth and real-
ism. She is obviously sincere in her
intent to do full justice to the marquis.
Her book bears all the marks of tireless
research. Above all, it has an unexplain-
able quality of hypnotism which makes
the reader turn back to it. I had read
it three times in manuscript, already
knowing its story in outline and being
familiar with the scenes in which its
drama was played, both in France and
in New Ireland. Yet I could not lay
down the printed pages until 1 finished
it again in the early hours of the
morning.
M. H. ELLIS.
High Failure
or Low
Success?
Li ter ary critics
of three conti-
nents are sarcastic
about Zane
Grey ; accuracy,
restraint, aesthetic
idealism com-
mendable virtues in any writer, according
to the pundits—are, to him, merely drag-
handles on the reel of his Imaginative
fancy. _ Mr. Grey, who is a great deal
more intelligent than his books, knows
these things quite Well, but he is in the
happy position of not caring two hoots
in Hades for anybody’s opinion but his
own. He can afford not to care, because,
there is no standard, in literature or any
other business, except the test pf success.
And Mr, Grey is a success.
Writing, to Mr. Zane Grey, is not an
art but a money-making trade ; he is the
complete literary haberdasher who num-
bers his customers by the million; the
professional best-seller who, concentrat-
ing on the more profitable rules of this
writing game, exploits them to the full.
It is not a bad fate ; better, indeed, than
producing unsaleable masterpieces in be-
tween peddling bootlaces ; better than tot-
ting up one’s royalties in terms of tram
fares, and vastly better than being patted
on the back by literary societies and
ignored by one’s master, the public.
All this, of course, is stark heterodoxy.
It is also commonsense. There are dozens
of Australian writers who, if put to it,
could write quite as badly as Mr. Grey;
who could hit the high spots just as
frequently and violently; could pour out
the sentiment with as copious a ladle,
paint the Australian scene with as lavish
a brush and create backgrounds, atmo-
sphere and characters just as fantastic to
life and history as will Mr. Grey in his
forthcoming Australian novel.
But no home-grown fictioneer ever will.
He is too conscientious, too painstakingly
accurate, too held down by the thought
of every literary gent, he knows, too pre-
occupied with what he calls Australian
Literature ever to produce work so cheap
as to be saleable in the Zane Grey sense.
And so he will go on wondering why a
serious writer in this country can scarcely
support himself unless he gives the best
part of his time to other pursuits ; why
he cannot have fortune as well as fame
and why the succes d’estime he has
achieved is such poor recompense for
his steady, grinding years of apprentice-
ship,
TAUWARRA.
The New
Morgan
Asked by
George Moore
what in life inter-
ested him most,
Charles Morgan
replied that three
things interested him above all else:
art, love and death, which he thought of
always as three aspects of the same
impulse.
Moore: Of what impulse?
Morgan: The impulse to re-create
oneself.
Moore: Is death that? It would be
pleasant to wake up and find that, after
all, death was only -art and love in a
different form.
Mr. Morgan, who recorded the conver-
sation ift his Epitaph on George Moore,
reverts to the theme in his new novel,
Sparkenbroke (Macmillan,; Angus and
Robertson ; 9s. 6d.), in which he presents
the idea entire to his leading character,
the peer poet Piers Tenniel, eighth Baron
Sparkenbroke, fusing Sparkenbroke’s art,
love and death into a symbolical expres-
sion of it. The theme is imaginatively
stated by the work as a whole, in various
conversations and most clearly in the
characteristic Sparkenbroke conversa-
tional address on page 143: —-
“In the eyes of the gods a man must
appear very much as a dumb animal
appears in the eyes of men. He can
neither Speak their language nor with
assurance understand it. But he is not
always dumb. Three times, at least, he
may understand and, perhaps, speak it:
in his love, in his contemplation and in his
death. These are his three ecstasies, his
three deaths to this world that free him
from the living death of the body; and,
except the devil corrupt or folly pervert
them, they are one death and one life,
one transcendence or ecstasy, the recon-
ciliation of suffering and joy.”
Perhaps “desire to re-create” Is a con-
fusing definition. Mr. Morgan offers a
better one when he says in the Epitaph
that the “passion for self-renewal” would
have been the theme of the biography of
Moore that he might have written. That
is the single impulse in the life of
Sparkenbroke ; not the hag-driven con-
ception of genius, which conveys the idea
of an external force driving an unfor-
tunate on, but an inner impulse drawing
the body along with it, and illuminating
the way.
Sparkenbroke, it should be said, is not
a fictional biography of Moore. The
theme of it is identical with that which
Mr. Morgan would have used for Moore’s
biography, but that is merely to say that
it is a theme applicable to genius. Moore
was in a sense a ridiculous figure. Ber-
nard Shaw’s keen eye for the ridiculous
saw it immediately, and he ridiculed it.
Mr. Morgan himself makes no attempt
to disguise it in the Epitaph, where he
speaks of Moore as having “the face of
a fiery sheep.” Then there was the
notorious mot on Moore that he was
one who told but never kissed, and no
man can talk of his amorous affairs with-
out making himself ridiculous, if it stops
at that. Moore lived to be a querulous
old man, and the last words Mr. Morgan
heard from him were, “All day I lie
here alone. All day alone.” In all these
and in every other thing but his art—
which, of course, is merely the kindly-
loaned art of Mr. Morgan—Sparken-
broke has the advantage over Moore. He
{Continued on page 40


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Always.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store” «&&£& ‘‘While I Live I’ll Grow”
ANTHONY H0RDERyg. YCLES
“ROYAL ENFIELD” MODELS—“Made like a Gun”
i
A
9^
VI
h
“ROYAL ENFIELD” Roadster
£7/10'-
A.—“ Royal Enfield”
Roadster Model (as
i 1 lustrated) . 22in.
frame; 2Sin. x 1 fin. wheels; best English
Dunlop roadster black tyres; gear 71 ; rat-
trap chromium-plated pedals; best English
tourer-type saddle; Enfield wide upturned
handlebars or handle (as illustrated) ; best
English roller-edge mudguards (detach-
able) ; first coslettised finish, enamelled
black and lined, bright part's chromium-
plated; toolbag, spanner, oilcan, inflator,
approved reflector and bell. Price,
£7/10/-. With Eadie Coaster Hub, Price,
£7/19/6. With Sturmey-Archer three-
speed gear. Price . . . , £lO/5/-
LADIES’ “ROYAL ENFIELD”
Ladies’ Roadster 14 1
Mode 1. 20in. jh| / / I H/O
frame; 26in. x CWI ' 1 W
I fin. wheels; English Dunlop roadster
tyres; gear 63; open centre type chain
cover; 3 fin. rubber, chromium-plated
pedals; Enfield front, roller lever type
brakes; Enfield wide upturned handle-
bars; first coslettised finish, enamelled
black and lined, bright parts chromium-
plated;. dress guard, toolbag, spanner, oil-
can, inflator, approved reflector and bell
as equipment. Price, £7/19/6. Eadie
Coaster Model, £B/I 5/-. With Sturmey-
Archer three-speed gear . . . . £1 1
“ROYAL ENFIELD” JUVENILE MODELS
£6/5/-
B. and C.—Juvenile Models for Boys and Girls.
— 1 6in. frame in both models; 1 8in. x 1 fin.
wheels; English Dunlop tyres; 36 freewheel
gear; front and rear brakes; strong English steel front and rear
mudguards; rubber pedals, chromium-plated; upturned handle-
bars; toolbag, oilcan, spanner and inflator; carrier and stand.
Boys’ Model, Price, £6/5/-. Girls’ Model, Price, £ 6/5/-.
“ROYAL ENFIELD” SPORTS MODEL
22in. frame; low bottom bracket'; straight
chain stays; brazed-up back stays; 28in.
x 1 § in. wheels; drop-out t'ype, Endrick rims;
wing nuts front and rear; English Dunlop sports tyres; fixed-wheel
gear; double-sided hub; racing rat-trap pedals, chromium-plated;
Enfield calliper to rear-wheel brake; Major Taylor handlebars,
adjustable extension rubber grips; lightweight spring-seat saddle;
lightweight steel mudguards; enamelled black finish, bright parts
chromium-plated; gold head transfer; toolbag, spanner, oilcan,
inflator, approved reflector and bell complete equipment. Price,
£9/10/-. With Sturmey-Archer three-speed gear, £11/15/-.
£9/10 /-
'■ROYAL ENFIELD” BOYS AND GIRLS'MODELS
Girls’ and Boys’ Models.—Boys’, 20in. and I
18in. frames; Girls’, I 8in. frame. Wheels, tK Ml I [ g j m
26in. x I fin. and 24in. x 1 fin.; best English . ' >
Dunlop roadster tyres; gear 53; chain cover on girls’ model, open
centre typfe; rubber pedals, chromium-plated; front brakes, run
type; Enfield upturned handlebars; enamelled black finish and
lined, bright parts chromium-plated; toolbag, spanner, oilcan,
inflator, approved reflector, bell; dress guard on girls’ models.
Boys’ Model, fixed wheel, Price, £7/10/-. Eadie Coaster, £7/19/6.
Girls’ Model, fixed wheel, Price, £7/7/6. Eadie Coaster, £8/7/6.
“ROYAL ENFIELD” TANDEM MODEL
The highest-grade “two-seater”
at a remarkably attractive
figure. Complete with touring
bag,’ spanner, oilcan, bell, inflator and approved re-
flector. Tandem model, Price . . . , £22/10/-
£22/1 0
ĵ
EASY
TERMS
ARRANGED
j
Above:
“WHITE FLYER” ROAD RACER
A racing machine for the enthusiast at
a price to place it within the reach of
all. Close-built frame, as used by lead-
£9/1 9/6
ing racing men; solid fork ends; lightweight, double-sided
racing hubs; Dunlop speed tyres; speed-plated fork ends
and crown. With freewheel clutch and cable brakes, £9/19/6.
Or with English Dunlop and English chromium-plated rims.
Price . . . . . . . . . . . . ..£lO/15/-
Left: “MARATHON” for Strong ROAD WORK
Built of Reynold’s English tubings, best-
quality British fittings, enamel of best-
quality and high-grade tyres. This is a
£91716
machine we can thoroughly recommend for strong road work.
Marathon (fixed wheel), Price, £9/7/6. Marathon (Eadie
Coaster), Price . . . . . . . . . . ..£lO
England’s finest bicycle, the “Royal
Enfield,” is solely distributed in Sydney
by Anthony Horderns’, and from
Anthony Horderns’ own cycle works
come three magnificent bicycles,
making a grand series of four fine
types of bicycles. The construction in
every case is from the highest-quality
English steel and fittings. Every
bicycle carries a full guarantee.
The New Cycle Catalogue is ready.
Send for one.
CHALLENGER MODELS
CHALLENGERS
£5/1 96
The “Challenger” is the last word in bicycle con
struction under the £6 mark. Its enormous popu-
larity is enhanced by the usual generous equipmenl
supplied, including toolbag, spanner, inflator,
oilcan, bell and approved reflector. “Challenger”
carries our full guarantee. Fixed wheel, Price,
£5/19/6. Eadie Coaster wheel, Price . . £6/15/-
LADIES’ “CHALLENGER”
All English fittings, weld-
less (English) steel tubing,
lugs all pinned and brazed;
9/6 U LS
celluloid chain guards; English mudguards; cord
dress guards; wheels and tyres 2Sin. x I fin.; heavy
nickel-plating: adjustable handlebars: special Eng-
lish saddle; English mirror-finish enamel, finished
in any desired colour. Fixed wheel and rim brake,
Price, £7/19/6. Eadie Coaster, Price, £B/10/-.
JUVENILE “CHALLENGER”
Frame 16in., with 24in. x
1 f in. wheels; also 1 Sin.
frame, with 26in. x 1 fin.
£5/1 9/6
wheels; 20in., with 26in. x I fin. wheels: Dunlop
Atlantic tyres; rat-trap plated pedals; standard
English saddle; upturned handlebars; complete
equipment. Fixed wheel, £5/19/6. Eadie Coaster
wheel . . . . . . • • • • £6/15/-
SPECIAL “CHALLENGER”
A special Australian-built
light Roadster Challenger.
It carries a full guarantee
£6/1 5/-
both as to its frame and tyres; all standard-size
frames; finest-quality English steel tubing,
Moseley’s English tyres; English rat-trap pedals;
best English tourer saddle. With fixed wheel,
£6/15/-. Eadie Coaster Hub .. .. £7/10/-
• Bicycles—Sports Dept., Lower Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Free delivery city and suburbs only.


m.
a
*********
/crt. t/ou/L ntcruei*
V ' WITH '
Super Plume 2t/J
A THE y POWER PETROL §
ClEAROm Mobiloil
PRACTICALLY 100% PURE LUBRICANT
is young, and he remains perennially
young, since he dies at 36, and had then
for some time been a great writer. Not
only in the ecstasies of his love, art and
death is he godlike ; he is so in his physi-
cal appearance—not in his physique so
much as in the appearance of it. He is
fascinating in a godlike way to women,
even to his wife, whose money and man-
agement withhold the ancestral Sparken-
broke place from the bailiffs.
The narrative seems a trifle sluggish.
That is a retrospective feeling about it,
for the novel has such compensations in
the exploration of its theme, the startling
beauty of its imagery here and there, the
continuous loveliness of its prose and a
sparkling quality of sunlight that floods
it through that the narrative seems at
the time of little importance. But, of
course, it is important, and it is a further
fundamental weakness of the novel that
the narrative is not only sluggish in
movement, but thin in comparison with
the imaginative content it has to hold.
There are times when the reader has to
depend on sheer writing to bridge be-
tween and relate the story’s incidents, and,
though the writing is supremely good, it
is not enough. Also, the characters,
though they are finely imagined, are a
little ghostly. It may be that Mr. Morgan
is so immersed in his prose that he tends
to forget the individuality required in
dialogue, and the trouble with Mr. Mor-
gan’s people is that they all speak, not
only too much alike, but too much like
Mr. Morgan.
The novel’s setting is singularly beauti-
ful. Chiefly it is the English country
landscape about the place Sparkenbroke,
curiously like the landscape that John
Cowper Powys transports into his books.
But Mr. Morgan has none of the Powys
engagement with the horrible. He would
call his novel, as Mr. Powys called one
of his, a romance; but Mr. Powys’s
romance is mixed up with the earth, and
if there is one word applicable to Mr.
Morgan’s imaginative romance it is the
word unearthly. One incident will do as
illustration. It comes in the first part of
the book, which is given to the boyhood
of Piers. His elder brother (subsequently
killed in France ; thus Piers inherits) has
locked Piers in the Mound, has had to
confess it to their father, and they, with
another boy, George Hardy, go to the
Mound in a panic, since the Mound has
mystical associations.
As the door opened, Lord Sparkenbroke
held up the lamp, his head thrust for-
ward, his knees bent.
At the farther end of the tomb Piers
was standing erect, his body stiff and
seemingly propped by the wall, the muscles
of his throat taut, his eyes wide. So pale
was his face, crowned by his tongued and
crested hair, that the light in which he
stood appeared to emanate from him, and
George was dazzled by what he saw.
In similarly imaginative style Mr.
Morgan depicts Sparkenbroke’s career
of love resembling that of Shelley
and Byron together and giving him the
reputation in England that Moore
apparently coveted. This reputation is
hearsay in the narrative, which, in this
respect, is concerned only with the cul-
mination of the love ecstasy in the
mutual attraction of Sparkenbroke and
the girl only with whom that culmination
is possible.
The narrative moves from England
temporarily to Italy, where Sparkenbroke,
for the purposes and the reason of his
art, is most of the time in voluntary exile.
The Italian scene may seem a trifle arti-
ficial, but that, perhaps, is a compliment
to the author’s subtle suggestion of con-
trast. The story threading through is that
of the love of Sparkenbroke and Mary
Leward, and this is acted out in both
countries, most vividly and acutely in
Italy and most romantically in England.
R. P.
Australians
Translated
Lawson was
translated into
French, Nor-
wegian and Dan-
ish ; Paterson has
been well-known
in Europe and America for a consider-
able time.
Of more recent writers, Alice Grant
Rosman’s books are published simul-
taneously in America, England and
the Scandinavian countries. So great
are her sales in Norway and Sweden that
she receives a royalty from her pub-
lishers there instead of their buying the
copyright, as is usual in translations.
Several of G. B. Lancaster’s novels
have been translated, including Pageant,
which was the first book to be published
simultaneously in England, America,
Australia and the Scandinavian countries.
lon Idriess’s Gold Dust and Ashes has
been published in Dutch under the title
of Gold Seekers, and Lasseter’s Last
Ride appeared in Scandinavian—re-
named Hoodoo and with an introduction
by Professor Helge Nelson, of Lund Uni-
versity. The same firm of publishers,
Sundquist and Emond, is also issuing
Gold Dust and Ashes. ,
Conflict, by E. V. Timms, is another
recently translated. It appeared in
Spanish as The Pirate Fleet.
DELL.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Sparkenbroke Charles Morgan
A Cloak of Monkey Fur Julian Duguid
The Phantom Paradise J. H. Niau
THE amazing story of the De Rays ex-
* pedition and the new Morgan novel
are reviewed under separate headings.
Julian Duguid’s A Cloak of Monkey
Fur (Cape; 7s. 6d.) is a vividly-seen,
picturesquely-peopled, muscular-actioned
story of a large expedition adventuring
from Spain across the Atlantic to South
America in the 16th century in search of
fabulous riches, to find instead, at the
site of Buenos Ayres, decimating famine,
a remnant being driven by that and the
hostile Indians desperately up-river to
Sebastian Cabot’s old stamping-ground at
Asuncion in Paraguay. A prologue, in
which Cabot is introduced feasting
a wild gang of sea captains, serves
admirably to establish sixteenth century
Spain as a distant background to
the whole narrative. The story proper
opens with the adventuring armada
coasting down South America. One
of the ships carries two women —a
Spanish lady whose dowry is invested in
that particular ship, and who has a son
of about seven and is due to have another
child, and this lady’s serving woman, who
is the story’s strong-willed heroine. The
action centres about these two women.
It is fiery action; vigorous, elemental,
lively with vivid happenings. The suspense
of constant danger continues throughout
the first part of the book, which carries
the story through the famine at Buenos
Ayres and the remnant’s departure,
harried by the Indians, whose burning
arrows sink most of what is left of the
fleet. There is a lull at the beginning of
the second part of the story, which is set
at the Asuncion settlement eight years
later, but the dramatic tension soon in-
creases, with intrigue bringing the settlers
to strife among themselves and the
Indians likely at any moment to wipe
them all out, and given plenty of good
reason to do so. Characters are clearly
done, action most vividly projected, with
the wild setting and its surprise to the
adventurers strongly represented.
The Bastille Falls: J. B. Morton
(Longmans ; 12s. 6d. net). It’s only a fair
thing to warn off any who may come to
this address seeking the robust comedy
of Hag’s Harvest. For a J. B. Morton it
is quite astonishingly devoid of humor.
It is a series of studies of the more
dramatic moments of the French Revolu-
tion, very well written. What some may
regard as a disadvantage is the over-
worked condition of this field that Mr.
Morton has surprisingly put his plough
into.
Flying and Soldiering: R. R. Money
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson; Bs. 6d.
net). The author was observer in France
in the risky ’planes of 1915 and, brought
down, was a prisoner of war. He records
exciting adventures very brightly, with
one or two anecdotes that are genuine
side-splitters. Very gay and easy reading
of lively doings.
William Randolph Hearst: Mrs.
Fremont Older (Appleton ; from Angus
and Robertson). Enthusiastically lauda-
tory Life of the big American newspaper
owner, grievously overwritten, but
crowded with interesting information,
and presenting a striking account of a
singular example of determined indi-
vidualism. Hearst, whose Senator father
was wealthy, could have been a man of
ease ; he tackled, instead, the formidable
job of turning the moribund San Fran-
cisco “Examiner” into a paying news-
paper, bringing sweeping innovations
into journalism, and going on to own 41
newspapers and magazines and “art col-
lections and palaces” as “splendid as
those of royalty.”
The Silver Fleece: Robert Collis
(Nelson ; Angus and Robertson ; 225. 6d.).
A most engaging autobiographical mix-
ture of school-life and medical study and
practice in Ireland, England and America,
and, above all, of Rugby Union foot-
ball, in which Dr. Collis reached what
will probably remain the peak of his life
when, in 1925, he played for Ireland
against England in a great drawn game
at Twickenham. One entry from Dr.
Collis’s diary sums it up: “Took 54
points to nil off the School of Mines and
served up a lady who had cut her throat.”
The Face of Mother India: Katherine
Mayo (Hamish Hamilton ; 12s. 6d. net).
A ghastly but a vastly interesting
picture-book of 400-odd photos, of life as
it is lived and death as it comes in
present-day India, with a historical and
descriptive introduction by the author
and her running commentary which
blends the pictures into a vivid narrative.
It is an oppressive book, but informative.
Unlawful Occasions: J. E. Pile (Heine -
mann ; 7s. 6d.). The crew of an English
tramp steamer are left stranded in a
South American comic-opera republic
while a couple of Greeks pinch their
ship to do a little pirating. They make
off after them in the second ship—there
are only two —of the Basuerian navy, and
there’s chasing and fighting and swear-
ing at each other in many languages
(statements as to parentage mainly) till
the finsh. The tramp —“There are hun-
dreds like her, by the favor of heaven —
clumsy, unbeautiful, bridge-poop-and-
forecastle type”—is much more the
character of the book than any of the
people who clamber about her.
Various Verse
Blind.
A blind man came to a lilac-tree.
And the scent of it made him see;
He stretched his hands through rusted bars,
Swiftly and joyously.
So passionately probed his sight
With lightnings through his night
That superhumanly he saw
In supernatural light.
He stretched his hands, he bent him down
Unto the tree and let him drown.
And his soul stood still and took its fill,
From feet to its greying crown.
The blind man rose and walked away,
And he sighed in his blind dismay;
His vision had passed; he tapped his stick,
Probing the wide-eyed day.
QUEENSLAND.
B. VREPONT.
O Gamesome Venus.
O gamesome Venus, pretty on the grass,
Time ’tis for me to only look and pass—
My leaping days are o’er: I can no more
Play a sweet play that we are one, alas!
Yet, why alas? Since, so the day be fine,
And young birds chirp, I take my happy
path;
Till night arrive, with friendly books and wine,
To hum and nod —and nod —beside the
hearth.
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Overture.
The mighty sun this empty earth bestrode,
A million million dawns and sunsets threw
Their gaudy flares, unseen of men, abroad,
And the sun shone, and the rain rained, and
the wind blew.
By the shining sun was no man warmed or
cheered,
The noble rain was no man’s foeman or
friend,
Though seas raged and gales screeched no man
was afeared,
And the sun shone, and the wind blew, and
the rain rained.
A nameless ocean greeted the nameless land,
And no man set his rejoicing feet upon
The hills or left any print in any sand,
And the wind blew, and the rain rained, and
the sun shone.
And the sea spawned jellies and fish and reptiles
great,
And some of these brake out of the waters
and drew
Undrunken airs, and throve, changing their
state,
And the sun shone, and the rain rained, and
the wind blew.
And the beast in the earth and the bird in the
air went free,
While fern and flower earth-bound for ever
remained,
And the communal soul flowed up in the ant
and the bee,
And the sun shone, and the wind blew, and
the rain rained.
With none to condemn or applaud were the
courses set,
No potent hand the bestial will constrained,
While the ruler to come was a teething infant
yet,
And the sun shone, and the wind blew, and
the rain rained.
Did an angel of life or the soul of planet or
star
Brood on that godless waste of naked stone
Or watch the monster saurians making war
While the wind blew, and the rain rained, and
the sun shone?
Or any outcast spirit, wandering by,
Gaze aghast on the waters, livid and lone,
And into the nightmare forests shuddering pry,
While the wind blew, and the rain rained, and
the sun shone?
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


HAVE YOU TRIED
MIRRAWORDS
The Fascinating New “WOMAN’S MIRROR” Competition?
First Prize £5O Minimum
and 25 Prizes of £1 each
No clues and a ready-made diagram. You merely construct a crossword on the
diagram given—no need to give clues. Letters are allotted certain points, which
will be changed for each competition. Each competition will run for two issues
of the “Woman’s Mirror.”
Prizes will be awarded to the competitors whose entries total the highest number
of points. In the event of a tie, prize-money will be divided; no competitor
may receive more than one share. Words must interlock across and down just as
in a crossword puzzle. No word may be used more than once in one puzzle.
Abbreviations, contractions and obsolete words disallowed. Only English Words
or words which have become English .by adoption may be used.
Mutilated or altered entries will not be accepted.
Two of the four- or five-letter words must be contained in the advertising columns
of the “Woman’s Mirror” of either May 26 or June 2.
YChen the puzzle is complete, add up the points across and down, mark the
points and total on the entry form and also Write the total points and the number
of the competition on the back of your envelope.
All words used must be found in the body of “Chambers’s Dictionary, except that
the four- or five-letter words may be trade names or any word used in “Womans
Mirror” advertisements. Send 6d. in postage stamps, postal note or cash with each
single entry. Competition No. 4 will close on June 16, 1936, for Australian
entrants, and on June 30, 1936, for New Zealand. Envelopes bearing a posting
date up to and including this date will be eligible. Those bearing a later date
will be disqualified. 75% of the gross proceeds from Australia will go as prize-
money for Australia, with a guarantee of first prize and twenty-five £1 prizes.
The remaining 25 % will be given to charity, the States being taken in rotation.
The name of the charity benefiting will be announced with the results.
New Zealand will be dealt with separately and 75% of the New Zealand
proceeds allotted as prize-money for New Zealand, the remaining 25 % being given
to a New Zealand charity.
The Editor’s decision is final and binding, and no correspondence will be entered
into. No responsibility will be accepted for any entry form lost, delayed, not
delivered or mislaid. Proof of posting will not be accepted as proof of delivery.
The Editor may disqualify any entry not complying with the instructions.
Employees of The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., and members of their
families are ineligible to compete.
TABLE OF POINTS.
SPECIMEN MIRRAWORDS SOLUTION.
POINTS
75“
A V
DJ
om
K I
n
106
JO
■Tu
AN
ScoH
0 IN
T
EJ L
■ D
m
. sJO
|f 7 ; ;38 [s<wc\6o \ ,os \&9 |
Points Across 487
Points Down 482
Total 969
CUT OFF HERE
Points
HO
s cage
1
>0
points:
m
K»ic\
MIRRAWORDS PUZZLE No. 4
Post to “Mirrawords,” Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, or leave your entry at “The Bulletin”
Office in any State Capital.
Points Across
Points Down
Total
Advertisements from which the two four-
or five-letter words used:
page ....
page
NAME .
ADDRESS
STATE
i
B. 27/5/’36.
Have you put your Total Points and
“Puzzle No. 4” on the back of your
envelope ?


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
•* wZ
zmmM
,
aamMiMii—n
■Bj : kH 9 B—<W HWWPHI W
•">
wsmk
■:
m
-'*r '
K
i®
iP
Svl
!
m
H
n
H
■: d
Hi
mm
m
i i
n
s
mm
m
\
:\
VI
8881
s
*Sg
,
Hi
wm
■i
:
HHBH
H
1 •
■
iss
H
H
■
Wm
■
E 5
-■: ..••• -
H
.
Wm
■
■
n
\ -
■
' : ;
H
■
■
m
m
m
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.
une


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2937.
May 27, 1936.
THIS FREEDOM.
Although Section 92 says ‘Trade, commerce and intercourse among the States shall be absolutely free,’ Federal Attorney-General Menzies argued before the Privy
Council that it does not bind the Commonwealth, and N.S.W. Attorney-General Manning argued that, in respect of transport, it does not bind a State.”
“Come, come, this language is uncalled-for I According to our interpretation, you are absolutely free.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Sjreet, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months. £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“REMEMBER THE EMPIRE.”
An unpleasant old Italian who lived two thousand
years ago got into the news and made his name im-
mortal by uttering three words on all manner of
occasions. He hated and feared a rival Power on
the other side of the Mediterranean, and “in season
and out of season he kept repeating the cry ‘Delenda
est Carthago’ ” ; “Carthage must be destroyed.” And
destroyed it was, for in the end the nation hearkened
—as nations do—to the man who knew what he
wanted and was determined to get it.
Great Britain and Greater Britain need a Cato,
not to hound them on to war, but to keep them out
of it. Especially do the Dominions need one, for
now, as in 1899 and 1914, they are bound by British
foreign policy, and if British foreign policy results in
a war they are in it'up to the neck. And the events
of the past nine months have made it crystal-clear
that British foreign policy has changed for the worse.
The “League Covenant” is now its “cornerstone.”
We have Mr. Baldwin’s word for it, and we have seen
Mr. Baldwin’s Government pursuing peace by coer-
cion, resorting to the dangerous weapon of boycott,
in the fatuous belief that the territorial settlements
imposed after the Great War were salted with per-
petuity, and that the disapproval of “the small peoples”
and the moral force and weakened striking power
of Britain are sufficient to overawe ambitious nations
bursting with population pressure. In the affair of
Abyssinia, British and British Empire interests were
subordinated to the pursuit of this phantom —sub-
ordinated and endangered. Yet the Baldwin Govern-
ment was advised by able servants in the Foreign
Office that no British interest was threatened by
Mussolini’s quarrel with Haile Silassie, for which
Europeans found a too-recent precedent in Joseph
Chamberlain’s quarrel with Paul Kruger.
It has also been made abundantly evident that the
British Government is apt to be swayed by sudden
and irrational movements of public opinion. This
happened in the case of the Hoare-Laval agreement,
which would have ended the campaign in Abyssinia ;
and it resulted in the fall of the men who were right.
And public opinion in its turn is apt to be deceived
by newspapers which, as every phase of the Abyssinian
business has shown, are not above serving up every
sort of cooked information, from half-lies to complete
fabrications, sauced by copious abuse of “the enemy.”
Yes, British foreign policy has changed, and since
1919, in their relations with foreign countries, British
Governments have been guilty of appalling blunders.
The dreadful fiasco of “sanctions” against Italy was
preceded by the support given in Russia to the Whites
against the Reds, which drove patriotic Muscovites to
rally round their new Czars, on the principle that
any kind of home rule was preferable to foreign domi-
nation, and by the support given in Asia Minor to the
Greeks against the Turks. In each case the British
Government put a large part of the national fortune
on the wrong horse, and in each case it nearly dragged
the Empire into another war. When the victorious
Turks were at Chanak an appeal for armed aid was
actually addressed by the bewildered Lloyd George
Government to the Dominion Governments. That
experience should have warned all parties in the
Dominions that they could never again rely upon the
easy doctrine that British foreign policy is infallible,
but it soon reasserted itself. The present Government
at Canberra has utterly surrendered to it.
But though British foreign policy has changed
much of the old insular arrogance remains. It is
still assumed in Britain that “one Englishman is as
good as six foreigners.” The assumption was impres-
sive when England had eminently able aristocrats like
the Pitts and Canning and Wellington to conduct its
foreign affairs and its wars, but it, is despicable and
highly dangerous when proclaimed in their fashion
by socialist leaders like Herbert Morrison and the
editors of “Liberal” and “Labor” newspapers who
stigmatise Mussolini as a gunman and Hitler as a
common criminal. In the sense in which the old
vaunt was used it has no longer even a shred of truth
to support it. ...
“One Englishman is as good as six foreigners.
In circumstances which can be too readily imagined,
one foreigner might, beat a thousand Englishmen.
If the bellicose pacifism of the Herbert Morrisons
and the “Labor” and “Liberal” editors brought on
the frightful tragedy of a war between white nations
that were friends and allies, for want of the protective
devices for which “Labor” and “Liberal” politicians
refuse to vote credits the thousand Englishmen might
be left at the mercy of a raiding bomber. For it is
the policy of the Herbert Morrisons and the “Labor”
and “Liberal” editors to meddle incessantly and in-
creasingly in the affairs of foreign countries, always
with the idea that foreign peoples should be content
to have their destinies decided for them by the superior
English race, and at the same time to deny adequate
defences to what they call their country. And by that,
of course, they mean the United Kingdom ; for the
Empire they don’t care two straws ; in fact, many
“Laborites” and “Liberals” are willing to give large
slices of it away.
So the Empire needs a Cato bent on preserving
the peace that is vital to it. A Cato who will
take for his slogan the words “Remember the
Empire!” and use them in every situation where their
use may produce some effect. Whenever Mr. Anthony
Eden goes through the now-empty form of “consult-
ing the Dominion representatives,” whenever some
old Cecil or Lytton demands “military sanctions
against Italy,” whenever some bishop or archbishop
longs to “draw a sword” (by proxy) “and go to do
battle for God’s people,” or calls for “the employ-
ment, if necessary,” of “armed forces to secure the
effectiveness of the Covenant,” whenever a news-
paper editor maddens a great military Power by
slandering the man it has placed at its head, let the
speaker or writer be met with a curt “Remember the
Empire!” The Empire that deserves to be remem-
bered always by British rulers and makers of public
opinion and is so often forgotten. The Empire that,
if kept out of war, may within 50 years have twice
as many white people in the Dominions as there
are now in the old homelands of the race. The
Empire whose young nations sent a million fighting
men to the Great War. Their devotion did not falter
during that tremendous time, but it would be strained
if they were called upon to fight again in Europe to
maintain artificial arrangements in which they have
not the slightest interest, or in Africa to restore
the supremacy of a dark-brown millionaire in a slave
State where men taken in battle are emasculated and
disembowelled.
Mr. Bruce could play the part of the new Cato
well. Very likely he would say “It isn’t done.”
But in the situation brought about by the abandon-
ment of the old diplomacy, the old foreign policy
and the old invincibility, it needs to be done.
JAMES v. THE COMMONWEALTH.
Argument in James v. the Commonwealth was com-
pleted last week, and the judicial committee of the
Privy Council reserved its decision. With two Aus-
tralian Governments on one side and four on the
other, it has been a strange case, and the strangest
thing about it is that there is hardly an educated
Australian who does not know with absolute certainty
that it was the intention of everybody concerned in
the establishment of the Federal system —statesman,
politician, businessman and wage-earner, as well as
lawyer—that the Commonwealth Parliament and the
Parliaments of the States should be governed in all
their dealings by the doctrine of inter-State freetrade.
In the years 1890 to 1900 there were thousands
of public discussions and debates and reports on the
draft bill for Federation. The slogan of every Protec-
tionist in Australia was “Intercolonial freetrade and
protection against the outside world.” The belief of
every Freetrader was that Federation would mean
absolute freetrade (no revenue tariffs even) between
the States.
Only lawyers in a desperate corner or politicians
with little sense could suppose or suggest that inter-
state freetrade, which was to be effective at the very
moment when the Commonwealth Parliament put
up its tariff barrier against the world (as it had to
do within two years after the Commonwealth was
established), could be legally destroyed by the action
of the same Parliament. Everybody who took part
in the Constitutional Convention must have known
that, both Commonwealth and States had to yield
to the rule of absolute freetrade among the States.
Parkes knew it, and said it. Deakin said it in
a way that everybody understood.
Federation will not be genuine unless there is a
federation of tariffs on the seaboard —unless we have
one common Australian or Australasian tariff against
the world and absolute freetrade within our own
borders. A common tariff on the seaboard means
absolute freetrade within all parts of the Australian
colonies.
Kingston, Australia’s first Customs Minister,
declared frequently that the carrying into law of the
first tariff would mean absolute inter-State freetrade
for ever. Barton said:
Protectionists and Freetraders alike avow their con-
viction that one of the first benefits and one of the
eternal benefits of Federation —one of those things with-
out which it cannot be —is inter-State freetrade.
Isaacs said at the Sydney Convention:
There is one great difference —I might also call it
in this respect a fundamental difference —between the
Constitution of the United States and our Constitution
as we propose to make it. In the United States there
is, as we know, freetrade between the States. But that
can be stopped at any moment by Congress. Congress
has absolute power to-morrow to impose duties even
as between the States. In the Constitution as we pro-
pose to make it, the Commonwealth is not to have that
power.
Since Federation, the one thing upon which all
the Judges and all the legal commentators were agreed
was that Section 92, to use the words of Harrison
Moore, “imposes restraint both on Commonwealth
and State action.” Quick and Garran knew this, and
said it. Isaacs said it in 1909 as a High Court Judge,
and again in 1912. He said it in 1915, as also
did Griffith, Barton and Gavan-Duffy. In 1920,
although the Commonwealth did not appear in the
case to make such a request, Isaacs recanted.
But the situation became too difficult for the
Commonwealth Government. In 1933, after James
had won his case against South Australia, the Com-
monwealth Government briefed Robert Garran m
one of the transport cases to argue that Common-
wealth and States alike were bound by Section 92.
This view, which has everything in Australian history
and in the words of the Constitution to support it,
was accepted by the majority of the High Court
Judges, who said, however, that only the Privy Council
could give a final pronouncement on the question.
It was suggested before the Privy Council that,
because the States cannot interfere with the freedom
of inter-State trade, the Commonwealth must be able
to do so, otherwise no one could do so. But the
whole scheme of the Constitution, and especially of
Section 92, is to place legal restriction upon Com-
monwealth and States alike, so that the traders and
citizens of the country may enforce their rights against
both. This was the view of Mr. Menzies him-
self when Mr. Menzies was Attorney-General in
Victoria, The opinion was published by him in the
“Australian Law Journal,” and he reaffirmed it at
the Constitutional Conference of 1934. As Common-
wealth Attorney-General, putting the case for his
Government in James v. the Commonwealth, he, in
tried to prove that his opinion was wrong on
political grounds.
Samuel Griffith used to say that the most diffi-
cult thing in the world was to answer yes or no on
insufficient information. The task of the Privy Coun-
cil is made more difficult still if the members of the
judicial committee are not armed with the history
of the struggle in Australia to obtain inter-State free-
trade.
When the Law Lords decided for James in his
action against South Australia in 1932 it was generally
understood that they all held the view that Section
92 bound both Commonwealth and States. But Lord
Atkin, who gave the judgment in James v. South
Australia, is not sitting on the present appeal. Five
other Law Lords who were his colleagues on that
occasion are missing, and two who are sitting never
were members of the House of Lords. In fact, the
composition of this judicial committee has rather
astonished Australians who have followed the James
litigation.
When a citizen is fighting the power of. Govern-
ments and politicians it is just as important that
justice should seem to be done as that justice should
be done.
WOLVES AND WASTRELS.
Recent criminal history in Australia raises more than
doubt as to whether our State penal systems do not
need drastic remodelling in order to fit them to their
primary purpose as deterrents to crime. Reclamation
of wrongdoers and their ultimate restoration to
society as chastened spirits, trained to disciplined
control, constitute the praiseworthy ideal of the
penologist to-day. Unfortunately a substantial pro-
portion of the most dangerous kind of criminals is
irreclaimable, particularly the type inclined by some
mind-kink towards sadism or brutal violence.
The law-abiding citizen is justifiably entitled to
all the protection that the law can give him against
such human wolves as these. They are far more
dangerous than any maniac, because their underlying
proclivities are not necessarily accompanied by any
outward evidence of word or action which will betray
them to the ordinary observer for what they are.
Their first self-revelation may be some appalling
crime, but this is unusual. Most of them graduate
through wastrelisms and petty wrongdoings which
generally bring them, if only for brief periods, under
legal detention. Insufficient use is made by our penal
systems for recognising the developing predatory
animals among them. Modern psycho-analytical
method could detect, with reasonable certainty, a large
proportion of the type which, in the interests of public
safety, it would be wise to keep under systematic
supervision, or even to segregate permanently.
Such a system would serve also to bring under
detailed study wastrels to whom the modern gaol
affords a comfortable haven of refuge. There they
have no family obligations, no trouble with the police,
no fear of going short of food or clothing, light work,
all the news (by tic-tac or otherwise), no risk of having
to sleep out on a cold, wet night and nothing to pay.
Certainly no pubs, no girls, no races, no votes. But
to such subnormal semi-morons as constitute the
type it is an infinitely better life than relief work can
ever afford. For them gaols should be made far
less comfortable, far more closely related to the
elementary personal responsibilities of existence out-
side among the people who now pay for their main-
tenance.
The most powerful influence operating against any
real reform of our prison systems is the politician.
Every “regular” and every wastrel knows that it is not
the court sentence that matters, but what the politician
can pull off for you on a petition for remission.
The politician’s victories, from murderers to snow-
droppers, are to be seen in every Australian city to-
day, and in every Australian gaol, too, waiting for the
politician to repeat the good work when the time
comes.
The psycho-analyst—not the politician—should
be the final authority for keeping the wolf
behind the bars, and for allotting to the wastrel such
conditions of prison life as will inspire him to keep
outside, even at the risk of having to do some real
work. Where a wastrel shows signs of turning into
a wolf he should be treated as one —again on the
decision of the psycho-analyst. Both classes are men-
tally defective in an anti-social way ; their treatment
is obviously a matter for persons skilled in mental
science rather than for vendors of foolish talk.
M. TURLUTU.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kissing the Rod.
Shedding every shred of dignity, the Lyons Govern-
ment backed out of the difficulty created by its
declaration that the House’s refusal to admit British
cement duty-free was a breach of the Ottawa
agreement.
Seeing the numbers against it, the Government
ignominiously abandoned the Ottawa agreement and
left in the lurch Senators who had voted to uphold
its interpretation. It accepted shamefacedly what it
termed a compromise, in the shape of an amendment
that the matter be deferred until December 1.
Actually it was no compromise, because, on the
Ministry’s interpretation (absurd as it was), the amend-
ment was just as much a breach of the Ottawa agree-
ment as the duty of 6d. a hundredweight carried by
the House in March.
In “Hansard” (page 1571) the Government is
convicted out of its own mouth, as it were. In the
Senate, H. S. Foil, the Government Whip, suggested
that the duty of 6d, per hundredweight be continued
for 12 months so that local companies might adjust
their costs. The Minister in charge of the bill
(McLachlan) said:
The Government must regard the proposal of Senator
Foil just as much a violation of the Ottawa agreement
as was the rejection by the House 9f the original pro-
position. From a logical viewpoint it is obviously
impossible for the Government to accept the suggestion.
The Prime Minister himself said on May 8 (page
1429): —•
There is no compromise, consequently the Gov-
ernment does not intend to submit the matter to the
British Government.
What it was “obviously impossible for the
Government to accept” it has accepted. The “no
compromise” of May 8 became humiliating surrender
on May 21. Such incidents are fortunately rare in
Commonwealth politics, but they are usually fatal to
Prime Ministers.
Ties of Ottawa.
Henry Gullett’s job of arranging trade treaties has
been singularly unfruitful. If last week’s tariff amend-
ments and prohibitions—Mr. Gullett announced them
—bring the overseas reactions they invite (especially
from Japan) unfruitful it will remain.
In its own incomprehensible way, Canberra is
“doing something” about the trade position—a dwin-
dling in our international bank balance that hitherto
it refused to regard as disturbing, “Good” cus-
tomers are to be given our patronage at the expense
of “bad” customers ; and the U.S.A. and, in effect,
Japan find themselves in the one boat —labelled
“bad.”
The U.S.A. sells many times more to us than
it buys from us. With Japan the position is
reversed. The Japanese are assured that portion of
the trade now done with the Americans will be trans-
ferred to them, but since (for example) the new
duties on artificial silk piece goods will be per
square yard British, Bd. intermediate and 9d. foreign,
“with primage on foreign imports only,” they may be
difficult to convince.
In the same way, an effort is to be made to
transfer purchases of motor chassis from the U.S.A.
to Britain. Transport strangulation departments are
rejoicing, for the effect will be to make cars and
lorries dearer. A bounty promised on Australian
manufacture of car engines will make no call on
consolidated revenue for at least two years, accord-
ing to the Government’s own estimates. Car
engines should be made in Australia, but the thing
cannot be done without preparation, and for this the
Government has not allowed.
The U.S.A. has ample room to compromise. If
it does, the Australian public may be saved a lot of
inconvenience. Japan, however, can do little more
than it does already. It runs Britain very close as our
best customer for wool, and buys a large quantity
of our wheat. This it does merely as a matter of
convenience—but it is to us a valuable convenience.
When the price is reasonable and the article is
suitable, Australians and Maorilanders in making
their purchases of overseas goods should “buy British”
if they would do the best for themselves and the Empire.
But it has to be remembered that the heavy interest
bill Australians pay in London is one of J. Bull’s
invisible exports. Add this to Father Bull’s com-
modity sales to us, and the trade balance oyer the
past few years will be found to be substantially in
Britain’s favor. Such of the new arrangements as will
really promote Australian industry are welcome; but
“drastic and far-reaching changes in overseas trade
policy” should not be introduced in an uncompre-
hending Parliament a few hours before a four months’
adjournment —in such a fashion, indeed, as to take
the public completely by surprise.
Where Royal Commissions Work.
They manage this royal-commission business better
in Britain.
Australia knows too well the kind of witness
who can’t give evidence because his health has sud-
denly failed, and the other kind that accounts for
suddenly-revealed riches by the assertion that he had
planted the savings of years under a sitting-room
carpet, having no faith in banks, or that he had
picked a succession of winners for huge amounts with
bookmakers whose names he can’t remember. No-
thing ever happens to these worthies, and as likely
as not there is no comment on their evidence —or lack
of evidence —in the report.
British royal commissions, like British Judges, are
no respecters of persons. Every feature of the
Budget-leakage case demonstrates that. For example,
a witness sent word from Switzerland that he couldn’t
come. He was told that he had better or a warrant
would go after him. And, regardless of the feelings
of a Cabinet Minister, the tribunal called for the
papers relating to the £15,000 purchase of a house
for Jimmy Thomas by the sporting friend who made
a pile gambling on income-tax and tea-duty increases.
They were in its possession within 48 hours.
The Budget was introduced on April 21. On
May 5 the Commons sanctioned an investigation;
on May 11 the Attorney-General opened the case
before the tribunal; on May 20 the taking of evidence
was completed ; that same day Mr. Thomas wrote
to the Prime Minister saying “I understand that the
tribunal immediately proceeds to consider its report”
—and resigned.
Australian royal commissions get nowhere, and
often that is where they are intended to get. British
royal commissions move with the swiftness and sure-
ness of British justice.
Bounty-fed Rubbish.
Claude James, a Tas. Assemblyman, visited the London
Fruit Exchange on April 17, and had a look at samples
from two shipments of Tasmanian apples. He has
reported to Premier Ogilvie that they were inferior
in every respect to U.S.A., Maoriland and South
African apples on show; and Mr. Ogilvie comments
that he is not surprised, for Mr. Cosgrove, his Min-
ister of Agriculture, “pointed out the detrimental
effects that early heavy shipments of immature fruits
have on the London market.”
Immaturity was only one of the faults mentioned
by Mr. James ; others were inferior packing and grad-
ing. He wrote that “the high percentage of immature
and pitted Tasmanian apples on show undoubtedly
depressed the market, and the confidence of buyers
in the reliability of our fruit is for the time being
severely shaken.” In the result, later shipments of
Tasmanian Jonathans, Cleopatras and Coxes have
realised far less than the same varieties from Maori-
land,
It is significant that an indulgent Common-
wealth Government is paying apple-growers an export
bounty of 4d, a bushel case, whether the exports are
mature or immature, good fruit or rubbish. And no
doubt the reduction-of-debts racket will be extended
to growers of rubbish.
Loan Council and Bank Board.
The Loan Council tried to take the bit in its teeth
during the sittings at Canberra, but the influence of
the Commonwealth Bank Board, meeting a few
hundred yards away, kept it in check.
The politicians wanted the board to underwrite
a £10,000,000 loan. The board replied that £9,000,000
was the maximum it was prepared to underwrite.
There was nothing to prevent the Loan Council from
trying to raise £10,000,000 itself if it really thought
the board wished to dictate to Governments ; but the
effort is not to be made.
The board warned the politicians that unless they
wished to hasten a return to dear money they must
exercise caution in framing their loan policy for
1936-37. As a result, the programme for the current
financial year was cut by £5,397,000 and borrowings
for 1936-37 are to be reduced to £19,910,000. At
the beginning of the present financial year a
£30,500,000 programme was framed, and a comparison
of the loan allocation for 1936-37 with the original
estimate for 1935-36 is instructive:
1936-37. 1935-36.
Commonwealth .. .. £3,750,000 £5,750,000
New South Wales .. .. 6,053,000 8,000,000
Victoria .. .. .. 3,423,000 4,000,000
Queensland .. .. •• 2,528,000 3,000,000
South Australia .. .. 1,606,000 2,100,000
Westralia .. .. •• 1,717,000 2,600,000
Tasmania .. .. •• 833,000 600,000
Total £19,910,000 £26,050,000
The £26,050,000 was exclusive of the amount required
to finance State deficits. This was at first estimated
at £4,500,000, but was reduced to £3,422,000. State
deficits for 1936-37 are estimated at £2,350,000.
In the face of strong pressure the Bank Board
has forced the politicians to finance their deficits out
of public borrowings instead of out of the proceeds
of Treasury bills, thus putting the responsibility for
deficits upon the right shoulders. Without any attempt
at dictation but by careful exercise of its legitimate
powers and functions, the board has won all along
the line.
Reduction or Abolition?
The question of reducing the number of members
or readjusting the basis of representation is continu-
ally cropping up in the South Australian Parliament.
The Assembly consists of 46 members, represent-
ing two- and three-member constituencies.
In the metropolitan area the three Adelaide mem-
bers represent 14,000 electors, while East Torrens and
Sturt, also three-member electorates, have 40,000 and
57,000 respectively. North Adelaide (20,000), Port
Adelaide (30,000) and West Torrens (36,000) return
only two members apiece.
In country districts the position is similar. In
Wooroora 11,000 voters send three members (includ-
ing Mr. Butler) to North-terrace. Flinders (13,000),
Victoria (14,500) and Albert (16,000) have only two
representatives each, the same number as New-
castle (6000) and Wallaroo (6000).
Of the 16 members chosen by rural two-seat
constituencies, six represent 44,000 electors, while the
remaining 10 represent only 37,000 among them.
Taking the extreme cases in city and country, an
elector in Sturt shares a member with 19,050 others,
while his cousin in Newcastle has to push aside only
2968 rivals in order to shake his representative by
the hand.
The position shouts for a readjustment of elec-
toral boundaries, and, in the process, single electorates
might well be considered. Except for an occasional
personal triumph, most districts vote on party lines.
The difficulty of adequately covering a large electorate
—one of the main reasons for multiple seats —has been
largely eliminated by modern transport, and, in any
case, has been made less important by the widespread
net of the radio.
For the five years to June, 1934, Parliamentary
government cost South Australia £414,544. A grow-
ing body of opinion is asking whether the marble
building on North-terrace, with or without its added
grandeur, is worth maintaining at this figure. In any
case, if the State legislatures are to remain their
members should be reduced to a number commen-
surate with the functions they are called upon to
perform.
There is no reason why South Australia’s Assem-
bly should need more than 30 members.
Out-of-date Lightships.
The unmanned lightship at Breaksea Spit (Q.) has
gone adrift and been wrecked. Its mate in the Gulf
of Carpentaria is, at time of writing, also adrift and
unlocated. Every summer either or both get out of
position. They and their two reliefs cost £15,000 each
to build and equip, and they cost £2OOO a year to
maintain.
In these days of radio beams and beacons such
lightships are utterly out of date, and it is high time
that they were replaced by modern methods. On a
wireless-equipped vessel any navigator can get a bear-
ing from a radio beacon, whether he understands
wireless or not. It is a mere matter of timing with
a stopwatch from the commencement of the cycle
at true north to the lowering of the note which indi-
cates that the vessel is in the direct track of the beam.
With two stations at a suitable distance apart —say
Sandy Cape and Lady Elliot Island —their intersection
gives the exact position.
One beacon, say at Booby Island, would give
sufficient information for vessels entering Torres Strait
from the westward.
A Troublesome Little Railway.
Districts agitating for new railways might do well
to consider the short but stormy history of the
Darling-Glen Waverley railway, a six-mile single-
track line in outer Melbourne suburbs.
Years of agitation preceded its construction. All
the usual arguments were advanced: land values
would rise; a building boom would follow ; within
a few years it would be paying handsomely. And
so on. ,
Would the ratepayers be prepared to shoulder
the risk? Certainly!
So the line was built in 1930, and a special trust
was created with the responsibility of paying for land
resumed and guaranteeing £lO,OOO p.a. to cover run-
ning losses. To meet these charges it could levy rates.
Two years later many of the ratepayers were in
arrears with their rates, which in some cases were 3s.
in the £ above the municipal rate. The trust tried
to force payment by means of distress warrants.
Ratepayers banded together and bought everything
at ridiculous prices (2s. 6d. was the standard price
for pianos).
In 1933 the Commonwealth Bank gave a deben-
ture loan of £34,000 to liquidate the trust’s overdraft
and accrued interest.
The railway continued to run, but land values
didn’t rise, the building boom didn’t come and
losses continued to mount up. So did arrears of rates.
To-day the trust owes the Commonwealth Bank
£58,741. Its assets are £5, and arrears of rates total
£13,000.
The latest move has been made by Malvern
Council, one of the members of the trust. It is organ-
ising a deputation to the Government asking for the
removal of the tax, which will mean that the burden
of this non-paying line, which was constructed at the
request of and for the benefit of a small section, will
be thrown upon the general taxpayers.
It is charitable and Christianlike to carry one’s
neighbors’ burdens, but had the desired increase in
land values and the building boom eventuated the
neighbors in this case would cheerfully have pocketed
their profit and congratulated themselves on their
foresight and astuteness.
There ought to be a lesson in it somewhere for
advocates of new suburban lines around Sydney.
Garden Out.
The daily press has treated the “expulsion” of I. S.
Garden by Lang’s A.L.P. executive as an event of
national importance. But as a politician Garden is
of no consequence, and he has been expelled
or invited to leave his associates so often that his
departures have become hackneyed.
The gentleman became the first Australian mem-
ber of the Communist World Executive. Political
Labor expelled him. May, 1925, found him standing
as a Communist candidate at a N. S. Wales election.
On December 4, 1926, he said at Orange that he
was “neither Communist nor Labor.” “The executive
of the C.P., therefore, regretfully expelled Comrade
Garden,” wrote the editor of the “Workers’ Weekly.”
Afterwards, while a leader of the Red International
of Labor Unions, whose members were supposed to
have been kicked out of the N. S. Wales A.L.P., Garden
became a Labor alderman, Lang’s chief organiser at
the 1930 State election and a Labor candidate for
Federal Cook in 1931. In 1934 he became member
for Cook and swore allegiance to the King ; in 1935
he got the Jubilee medal. In the confusion, nobody
noticed that he had been expelled again—this time by
the Red International of Labor Unions,
In the circumstances one more expulsion scarcely
seems to matter.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Somnus”: Unconscious humor? A
library to which I belong is governed by
a committee which periodically sifts out
books considered demoralising, or those
against which subscribers have lodged
complaints as being “over the fence”
{Anthony Adverse was included in this
category). Having a keen nose
for book bargains I asked the
librarian if such books were for
sale, and was floored by the
reply: “No ; the committee
sends the lot to lighthouse-
keepers.”
* * *
“Unity”: Add to the knitting
fraternity the up-country taxi-
driver. Fares in a small town
are not frequent on ordinary
days, and I have often watched
a driver wrestling with “purl
and plain.” Some of them are
expert knitters, and in addition
to making their own garments
undertake a trifle for the missus
and the kids. They look with scorn on
their colleagues who don’t get beyond
crossword puzzles or the study of the
weights for the next meeting.
* * * *
“Bo”: Sydney “Telegraph” might have
been easier on a young man who
suddenly recovered his sight after 10
years of blindness —the photo, accom-
panying the article showed him reading
“Esquire,” an American counterpart of
“La Vie Parisienne.” It was surely
tempting Providence to put that in the
hands of one who had walked in dark-
ness for a decade.
* *
“Taurewa”: Long-range visibility (B.
29/4/’36)? From the South Hostel on
Mt. Egmont (Taranaki, M.L.), the moun-
tains of the South Island are visible on a
clear day, while from the summit the
coastline can easily be traced as far as
Cook Strait; sometimes even the beaches
of Nelson Province (5.1.) can be seen.
On a dead line the distance is at least 160
miles.
“C.V.S.”: The pilot of Holyman’s new
Douglas airliner reports that he sighted
Tasmania before leaving the Victorian
coast, the visibility being 200 miles. And
it was not just after rain.
H* H»
“Findy”: Chong Shang Tin, the round-
the-world walker who has arrived in
Australia after seven years on the track,
is only a novice compared with Vancira,
a Canadian, whom I met in Tasmania a
few weeks ago. Vancim (like most of
’em) is doing it for a wager, and possesses
dozens of notebooks containing official
date-stamps from post offices all over the
world. I don’t know how long he has
been footslogging, but he claims to have
almost completed the job on two occa-
sions, when loss of some of his records
has compelled him to go over some of
the ground again. On the first occasion
bits of the written testimony were lost
during the Russian revolution, 1917 ; on
the second the documentary evidence
of “all Africa, India and Australasia” was
swallowed up by the Napier earthquake
in 1932. Still, being tall, gaunt and wiry,
he will be in the running for a postman’s
job when his itinerary is completed.
Hi * * *
“Kellick”: Doubtless the Queen Mary
will soon be creating a new transatlantic
record, but in the early days of the war
H.M.S. Furious did the double crossing
in a few hours under seven days. H.M.A.S.
Australia, on her maiden voyage from
England, crossed from Auckland to Bris-
bane in two days 16 hours. The same
ship went from Adelaide to Sydney in
48 hours. For some unknown reason,
iccord-breaking dashes by men-o’-war are
given no publicity.
* * *
“Findy”: The idea of municipal
authorities selling up Rothschild prop-
erty for non-payment of rates seems fan-
tastic, but it has just happened in Caul-
field (Vic.). It seems that in the ’seven-
ties two of the Rothschilds bought a
large slice of land there. Subdivision and
sale followed until only one block re-
mained —a square piece of “common”
used as a playground. Some time ago
the owners lost interest in this unre-
munerative piece of soil which they had
never seen, and began to ignore taxation
assessments and rates notices. In the end
they intimated that they didn’t want to
be bothered, and that the authorities had
better sell the jolly old land for what-
“Whose ideas this?”
“Not mine, surge — it's the wife's”
ever it would darned well fetch and keep
the fi as fi e d proceeds. Result: land sold
a t a price sufficient to pay all arrears
and CO sfs, and a balance of about £2OO
to go to Victorian consolidated revenue,
George Arliss ought to make a film
about it.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The A.I.F. late-in-the-
war ban on the recruiting of youths
under 18 (B. 13/5/’36) came not so much
from reluctance at sending mere boys to
the slaughter as from evidence that
youngsters could not stand the gaff. After
the war I handled statistics, prepared by
an officer of a field ambulance, as to the
inroads of illness among members of the
forces. These showed that boys went
fiown like ninepins after a few weeks of
fi e j d conditions. Many of the ex-soldier
t.b. cases were lads in the war period,
jh e mG st useful soldiers in the matter of
endurance were in the 30-to-40 class ;
beyond 40, nervous breakdowns were the
chief trouble. The most daring, judged
on distinctions for acts of special dash
an( j bravery, were in the 20-to-25 age-
group,
■ ■ ...
“O. de V.”: “Exdig’s” Digger killed
in France at 16 (B. 13/5/’36) was a
veteran compared wiith some who got past
British recruiting sergeants. I knew
one kid who cleared out from school
and enlisted in a Highland regiment at
15. He was a big lump of a six-footer
even then, and he hadn’t dwindled any
when I met him again in 1918. We were
in the same convalescent hospital; he
had four wound-stripes on his sleeve and
was a major in rank while still a minor
in years. Scores of boys lacking his size
got into the English Bantam Battalions
in the early war years and were not
combed out until the War Office de-
veloped a conscience. I ran across one
consignment of under-age warriors on
their way back from Boulogne to
Blighty in 1917. One of them had seen
two years’ service, most of it in Salonika ;
his chief worry at' the moment was
whether he would be detained at the
depot or get home in time to celebrate
his sixteenth birthday.
* * * *
“Bisi”: It was “any-questions” time
in the Sydney Domain during the
anti- and pro-hanging epidemic of
oratory. Donald Grant, M.L.C., was
the principal speaker. He had consider-
able trouble in quietening his audience
when an old gentleman inquired from
the fringe of the crowd: “Mr. Grant, do
you think the positions of the planets
have caused all these murders?” The
question was put quite seriously.
* * * *
“Jay-Bird”: Jack Higgins, M.L.C.,
found the Lang-Garden falling-out
strangely reminiscent of “the quarrel
between two old miners in Bret Harte’s
famous story in which Scotty says
‘There is one thing Yorkie hasn’t charged
me with —for seven years I was his part-
ner.’ ” Still, Scott and York can hardly
be described as old miners—they were
both young enough to go courting—and
they didn’t call one another Scotty and
Yorkie. The original speech by Scott in
“The Iliad of Sandy Bar” is much too
precious to be misquoted or mutilated.
“There’s nought as that man hez said
about me as isn’t true. I was run outer
Cairo; I did belong to the Regulators; I
did desert from the Army; I did leave a
wife in Kansas. But there’s one thing he
didn’t charge me with and maybe he’s
forgotten. For three years, gentlemen, I
was that man’s pardner.”
Anyhow, Scott and York made it up
before the former’s death. I wonder
whether the Garden-Lang feud will ter-
minate as happily.
* H= * *
“S.T.S.”: In all that I have read about
Kipling’s family ties, I find no mention
of his first child, a girl who died young.
The “Just So” stories were written origi-
nally for her, and there is little doubt that
their quaint expressions, such as “ ’sati-
able curtiosity” and “inciting s’prises,”
reproduced the little one’s talk. The
story of Tegumai, primitive man, and his
“little girl daughter,” when finally pub-
lished, carried as epilogue this hint of
heartbreak:
For far, oh, very far behind,
So far she cannot call to him,
Comes Tegumai alone to find
The daughter who was all to him.
Not even the loss of Kipling’s only son
in the war brought forth any such
pathetic tribute as that.
“M. de Paris”: lam afraid that Mr.
Ketch” is far behind the times in his
hanging technique (B. 20/5/’36). Such
methods as greasing the rope have long
been abandoned in Britain, where the art
has, perhaps, developed to its highest.
Every gaol about to stage a hanging re-
ceives from London a box containing the
necessary “props.” Among the items js
the special rubber-covered noose which
is now the vogue, and is designed for the
patient’s greater comfort, and the white
cap. When used, all the items are re-
packed save the cap and sent back to the
London prison whence they came. The
cap is returned by registered parcel post,
to be washed and put by until required
again. As to Australia, I am informed
by the greatest journalistic authority on
hanging I have met that the practitioner
whose work he admired on so many
occasions never used a knot in the rope,
but a steel ring.
“Tonsorial”: As a hairdresser for 30
years, I number all kinds and conditions
of men among my patrons, but the
queerest of all was a quiet old chap who
had been a “regular” for years. On one
occasion he ordered a general overhaul
—haircut, shave, etc. “Must be going
to a wedding,” I ventured. “Not a
wedding,” he said simply, “but a hang-
ing,” and he added a few details
that very soon convinced me I was
attending to the public executioner.
I have accommodated with shaves or
haircuts a former Prime Minister, a State
Premier, Ministers of the Crown,
police magistrates, police superintendents,
ministers of religion and persons
in every rank of life (including news-
paper editors), but as far as I know
this was my sole experience with a hang-
man. Once, however, I shaved a mur-
derer, or, at all events, a man who was
held on a murder charge. There was
no doubt about his identity, for the
operation took place at a police station
with three constables standing by “in
case.” They weren’t needed ; he gave
no trouble whatever.
* * *
“Phil Anthus”: Reference to Robert
Horne as a possibility for the job of
British Prime Minister (B. 13/5/’36) re-
minds me of a happy newspaper misprint,
or misconception, of which he was the
indirect cause when visiting Aus-
tralia a few years ago. Enter-
tained by the N.S.W. Institute
of Journalists, Horne said most
of the usual things about news-
papers, including a tilt at leader-
writers. “The leader-writer,” he
said, “is a person to be feared.
He sits on Olympus.” The
“Labor Daily” made this read
“The leader-writer sits on a
lamp-post!” I am still wonder-
ing whether that “L.D.” re-
porter was misled by his hearing
or by the similarity of the short-
hand outlines of “Olympus”
and “lamp-post,” or whether he knew his
leader-writer better than Horne did.
* * * *
“Kali”: In addition to the inclusion
of first-aid classes in schools (B. 13/5/’36)
youngsters should be taught the rudi-
ments of electricity and its attendant
dangers. Rarely a week passes without
some fatality due to the ignorant use of
electrical appliances. A recent case was
that of a Queensland woman who en-
deavored to locate a fault by probing
with a pair of scissors into the socket of
a power plug with the power on! Every
year sees more electrical household
gadgets on the market. An hour’s in-
struction weekly in every Australian
school would mean the saving of many
lives.
H* ❖ % H*
“Kellick”; Have seen maimed sol-
diers in thousands, but maimed sailors
are relatively scarce. The immense
disparity in numbers doesn’t altogether
account for it; another reason is that
action at sea is apt to be far more deadly
than land battles. At Jutland, for
instance, several ships were sunk by the
first broadside of concentrated fire. I’ll
never forget the words of a grizzled old
veteran: “There’s no popguns at sea, me
lad. If you get hit you’re gone.”
* * * *
“Port Augusta”; My acquaintance
with the Herzogin Cecilie began when,
as a small boy, I was taken aboard her
one day for afternoon-tea. That was in
1910 or thereabouts, when she was a
German training-ship. A dozen years
later I saw her again loading wheat in
Melbourne, and on the third occasion she
was anchored at the Port Lincoln ballast-
grounds. Since my early visit I’ve always
felt a sort of proprietary interest in her.
But the fact that she won so many
grain races impressed me less than the
memory of my first merry-go-round ride
on her deck, on a home-made contrap-
tion pushed by sturdy German trainees.
A NEW DEFINITION.
“Lord Hewart, Chief Justice of England, recently
defined a gentleman as ‘a man who is never rude
unless he means to be.’ ”
Un homme sans peur et sans reproche —at any
Rate, it was thus he used to be defined,
“A fearless, blameless soul.” And there are
many
More such crisp turns of speech that come
to mind.
But here’s a Judge’s dictum, an endeavor
To tap the thimble that contains the pea:
A real gentleman is one who’s never
Rough with his tongue unless he means to be.
He may be anything—divine or lawyer,
Or occupant of professorial chair,
A lusty lumper or a sturdy sawyer,
A needy swagman or a millionaire.
But there’s one clear-cut sign, one mark
intensive
That stamps a gent., whatever his degree:
He’s never, by an act or word, offensive
Unless he’s steadfastly resolved to be.
He may be one of great or scant possessions;
It doesn’t matter where he’s domiciled;
His language may be spiced with slang expres-
sions
Or “tne pure well of English undefiled.”
But here’s the point that counts, the funda-
mental
Badge of the tribe, th’ unfailing recipe;
A gent, is never rude or ev’n ungentle
Unless he definitely means to be.
Parliamentarians may roar or drivel,
Yet still be gentlemen (like you and me),
Provided that they’re never rude, uncivil
Or impudent—unless they mean to be.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Ex-Q.”: On a blazing hot Sunday
afternoon in Cloncurry (N.Q.) a group
of us on the hotel balcony were
cursing the weather. As an antidote a
visiting mining engineer began to talk
of winter in the Yukon, where spit
bounces back off the footpath and a
chap can introduce himself to a girl and
make an immediate good impression by
rubbing snow on her frostbitten ankles.
He went on to tell of icicles hanging from
burning buildings. A long, thin, sunburnt
chap cut in with “It’s as cold as that a
few miles from here.” He was a
Qantas star pilot, and he featured for
us conditions on the other side of the
clouds, where the sun’s rays, unfiltered
by the atmosphere, would peel off unpro-
tected skin in strips, and it was hard to
keep sensation alive in the legs and feet.
“Gosh,” began the Yank. I don’t know
what more he intended to say, but just
then Harriet rang the dining-room bell.
* * * *
“Pons”: The Great Moment in a
Gurl’s Life, as described in a N.S.W.
up-country paper:
The bride entered the church to the
strains of the Wedding March, on
the arm of her father dressed in white
bridal satin, her bellowing cut tulle veil
being held in place by a coronet of pearls
and orange-blossom.
One way and another, it sounds like a
sweet little wedding.
* :Js * *
“Cirrus”; One of the many occasions
on which Sidney Kidman voiced his life-
long abhorrence of “drinking, smoking
and swearing” was at a lunch follow-
ing a Kapunda (S.A.) horse sale. A stock
dealer of some note was present, and at
the conclusion of the diatribe he drawled
“Ever told any lies, Sid?” If there was
any answer 1 didn’t hear it.
* :;< * *
“Oxmead”: Nobody who ever read
Stevenson’s “Open, Letter to the Rev.
Doctor Hyde” will doubt that it was
written in a white heat of indignation
(B. 20/5/’36) —all the more impressive
since he was not of the creed of the
aspersed priest. Still, even if the
author was “none too proud of
it,” he could hardly have re-
gretted writing it or he wouldn’t
have had the pamphlet repub-
lished in England. Hyde’s own
letter may have been meant to
be private, but to dismiss it as
nothing more than “unkindly,”
as “Bibliophile” does, is carry-
ing charity too far, when one
considers one horrible insinua-
tion against Father Damien
which it contained. I suppose
the rev. doctor was a cleric of
some tonnage in his day, but I
have so far been unable to find
out anything about him. What
I should like to know most is
whether he sat down under
Stevenson’s terrific castigation
or attempted any sort of an
answer to it.
“Ex-Englishman”: The reviewer (R.P.
9/ 5/ ’36) who praises Douglas Byng’s
“blasted oak” verse does not mention
that it was originally recited while D.B.
was, on the stage, playing the part of
such a tree. The prose patter in which
he dealt with the frequent lovers shelter-
ing beneath his branches was, English
friends assure me, about the most sultry
thing heard on a London stage since the
spacious days of Charles 11.
“Col. B.”: A city banking friend took
me along to see the staff getting mstruc-
tion in pistol-shooting. Some of the lads
were not bad as deliberate target marKs-
m£n> but as £ or a i m i ng f ro m the hip,
swing-pivoting, gun-fanning, blindfold
shooting, rapid double-action tire on on-
hand a im aiming from the ground or
while lending, or any of the other real
gunman s accomplishments, they simply
“ This'll do, ’ Er b; Well park ’ere.”
hadn’t been heard of. Inspection of
weapons showed a variety of makes and
calibres, damaged riflings, stiff lock
actions and misfit grips. Were I arming
a bank clerk, I’d give him a sawn-off
16-gauge shotgun, with buckshot cart-
ridges, slung in an armpit holster, for
escort duty. Tellers would have the
same, with an automatic 12-gauge as well,
stowed under the counter. There would
also be an armored space under the coun-
ter to duck into, with a movable panel to
shoot through at comfortable kneeling
height, commanding a definite arc of fire
for each counter.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”; Theft of motor-
cars is an everyday occurrence, but there
is something novel about the illegal seiz-
ure of a tram. It occurred the other day
in Alexandria (Sydney). The conductor
was assaulted by men he had ordered
off for refusing to pay their fares;
“Dearly beloved brethren, may 1 suggest that We retire to the vestry for
a game of bridge ?”
when the driver went to his assistance
two of the rioters took possession of the
car and drove it off, deserting it when
well away. A milkman stopped it by
dragging the conduction pole from
the overhead wire. I recall a more
deliberate tram-theft some 40 years
ago. Employers declined to allow mem-
bers of the Trolly and Draymen’s Union
time off to attend the funeral of a pro-
minent union official, and the men in
several yards stopped work. A number
of them repaired to the old tram yards
at Bridge-street, commandeered a steam
tram and drove it, crowded with staunch
unionists, all the way to the Waverley
cemetery, where they arrived in good
time for the funeral.
“Greenhide”: The country newspaper
editor stands a lot before he blows off,
so this recent effort in the Cowra (N.S.W.)
“Guardian” suggests extreme annoyance:
“The P.M.G.’s Department has sent along
to this office a request for a free para-
graph in regard to special telegrams —
which it will not get.” The editor then
informs officialdom that no rag can live
on air, and finds both injury and insult
in the circumstance that “this is a town
that has had its trunk telephone service
nearly wrecked.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Why all this fuss and
excitement about quins, quads and
triplets? Humans aren’t constructed for
that sort of mass-production ; the litters
are always weakly and undersized. The
Dionnes are the only recorded instance of
quins surviving for any substantial time,
and the St. Neot’s quads are the first
British litter to do so. So far as I can
recall, the only triplet of whom anything
much has been heard was Bendigo, the
prizefighter. Apparently he was a
“separate” ; the other two who died with-
out distinction were “identicals,” really
subdivisions of one individual. Odds
against triplets for any given birth are
about 8000 to 1 ; against quads, 370,000
to one. Only about 30 quins have been
recorded. The money and interest de-
voted to these freaks would be far better
employed in rearing a few super-children
as a practical illustration of what could
be cheaply and easily done to improve
even the average of the race.
* ❖ jfc %
“Turl”: “Col. B.’s” story of the first
printing “press” in Thurs-
day Island (B. 20/5/’36)
reminds me of a pleasant
yarn current in my Oxford
days. In one college—it was
Oriel, if you want to know —
there were a number of hefty
cricketers and footballers, long
of limb in some cases and
broad of beam in others. One,
who had gained his blue at
both games, and who after-
wards came near to being an
international cricketer, was
particularly noticeable in the
latter category, but there were
others who looked to come
close to him in width. How
fallacious the idea was became
apparent only after some col-
lege celebration, when some-
body suggested a competition
to see who could sit down on
most notes of a piano. The
idea caught on and attracted a
dozen sturdy entrants. The
test was carried out with due
solemnity. Dozens of under-
graduates were waiting below
for the result, betting having
been brisk, with long odds on
the favorite, and there was a
roar of “Who won?” as the
referee emerged into the quad.
“Blank,” he announced, “by
an octave.’’
“Captain Pintle”: The Admiralty has
declared that a genuine pirate ship is
afloat, and Lloyd’s agents throughout the
world have been instructed to watch for
her. The North Sea trawler Girl Pat
put out from Dover on April 4, put into
a Spanish port eight days later, and left,
after extensive repairs and renovations,
on April 21 for an unstated destination.
On April 27 the owners notified the
underwriters that they considered the
craft a total loss. Inquiry showed
that they had engaged a new skipper a
few months before, and that he had
picked his own crew, with the exception
of the engineer, who had been left ashore
at Dover. The vessel is fitted with
modern Diesel engines, and took on a
quantity of stores and supplies during the
refit at Corcubion, Spain. It recalls the
stolen Ferret, in the ’eighties, identified
finally by a Melbourne Customs officer,
and for years after a tug at Port Adel-
aide.
* * * *
“El V.”: Every few weeks a “cancer
cure” is discovered by some anonymous
person and • false hopes are raised in the
minds of thousands. Now a flapper
newspaper has entered the field with an
account of how the Wisconsin (U.S.A.)
University is conducting experiments
with an “electrical gun” which hurlsi
“electrical bullets” into the body at
15,000 miles a second and mows down
the cancer cells. That is exactly what
is done by the deep X-ray therapy plants
in the big hospitals of Australia. One
would be inclined merely to laugh at the
fact that morning journalism has been 20
years in discovering the existence of such
apparatus, were it not for the disappoint-
ment which is inflicted on sufferers by
such announcements.
sfc H 4 H 4
“Jobber”: My cobber had written half
a dozen letters home, and blew into the
colonel’s tent with them. The colonel
was a good sport, but a bit on the sleepy
side that morning, so he roared out Blue,
telling him to take his letters to the officer
who was doing the job. Blue was equally
indignant. “That’s no good to me,” he
countered. “I just had a decko in his
tent, and saw his nibs censoring a whole
pile of letters. He’s not going to do mine
—the blighter reads ’em!”
% * * *
“General Prac.”: It occurred at a boys’
school of the first chop. A staggered
prefect found Jones, minor, aged 11,
struggling with an indignant housemaid,
apparently with a view to securing some
portion of her apparel. The head was
very angry. “Don’t you realise that the
school exists to educate gentlemen?” he
bellowed. “Never heard of such a das-
tardly attack. Only one thing for it—
expulsion. Write to your father now, you
shameless baboon! ” The baboon gouged
a tear from his eye with a grimy paw.
“Please, sir,” he blubbered, “I only
wanted some elastic to make a shanghai.”
Bound over to be of good behavior and
fined a month’s pocket-money.
ROYAL COMMISSIONS.
These roy’l commissions, chaps, these roy’l
commissions
Whose job's to probe and sift and drag and
delve,
What chances they afford our politicians
Of shelving anything they want to shelve!
How many a merry mix-up that’s inferred by
That graphic phrase “a pretty kettle o’
fish”
Is apt to get examined (and interred) by
A roy’l commish.
They tackle bunchy-top in the banana;
They gauge the value of our western soil;
And now it’s metalliferous Mungana
Engages them —and then it’s milk or oil.
Problems that Judges might be circumvolved
by,
Points intricate enough to baffle a bish.
Can always, there’s a vague idea, be solved by
A roy’l commish.
Sour grapes, perhaps. Oh, well, it needn’t
hurt you
To delicately hint, or me to say,
This incontestable reward of virtue
Has never come this humble rhymester’s way,
Worse luck! A reasonably honest Briton,
I long have hankered and I still may wish
To have a chance, however slight, to sit on
A roy’l commish.
The things at issue, points to be debated,
The bawl and bleat and blither, bluff and
blare,
Will never be abruptly terminated,
I’ll take my Bible oath, if I am there.
I’ll drag it out, whatever they are set on;
I’ll always haul my divvy from the dish
Whether it’s banking or it’s bets they’re set on
Determining, if only I can get on
A roy’l commish!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


‘2.0/orl 6
10 for 9*
\.Ofor9 A A JL.
a****
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.,
m
■
A
9
f.
CIGARETTE O F THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia would have gone bung five
years ago if the sheepmen had not met
the market, to their great loss ; and it
would be in a financial scrape this year
but for their splendid contribution to
exports. Now there is to be a tax (called
a levy) on wool so that they may adver-
tise it at their own expense, and so that
it may need advertising a nice new lot
of duties has been clapped on imports
from their second-best customer. Aus-
tralian Governments have queer ways,
and these are the Lyons Government’s
ways of showing its gratitude.
At least’ one big British concern doesn’t
give its own country the preference which
is incessantly and embarrassingly de-
manded of the Dominions, Australia
especially. In Sydney you can see
copies of a German propaganda maga-
zine printed in English. The latest
number carries a picture of a “skyscraper
210 feet high, erected in Shanghai in
1935 for an English insurance company
by the Vereinigte Stahlwerke A.G.”
Premier Stevens’s frequent statement
that his Government will “balance the
Budget next year” was repeated to the
Loan Council. Honest balancing would
mean large additions to income or a
drastic reduction in expenditure or both,
for the deficit for the current year is still
estimated at £1,750,000. But perhaps
the oracle will be worked in the old way
—by charging up ordinary expenditure
to loans.
Canberra forgets easily, and this is one
of the things it has forgotten. In the
four years from July 1, 1930, to June 30,
1934, Australia paid G. Britain, in re-
spect of imports and interest, 40.2 mil-
lions sterling more than Britain paid us
for our exports. The commodity bal-
ance has been in Australia’s favor, but
the balance of all payments—and that is
what decides our solvency or otherwise
overseas —in the last couple of years
especially has been much against us.
And coronation jaunts will take a pot of
money out of this country.
Jimmy Thomas has resigned from the
Baldwin Ministry because of the affair
of the £15,000 house ; and Ramsay Mac-
Donald will shortly resign because
science, he says, calls him; and a big
pot in what is left of their party
organisation is resigning because Rammac
wrote in their newspaper that it is no
use going on with “sanctions.” It all
means the dissolution of “the National
Labor party”; still, the alleged party
had a longer run than the “National
Labor parties” which shot up in Aus-
tralia after the conscription wrangle.
They were all dead by the end of 1917.
Lang’s A.L.P. executive has expelled
Garden, who once pronounced Lang
“greater than Lenin.” A dispute over the
control of the Labor broadcasting station,
where the Garden clan is well dug in, is
alleged to have started the feud, but the
uninteresting pair were bound to quarrel
sooner or later. Garden, who is a
M.H.R., has a right of appeal to the
Federal A.L.P. executive. Possibly before
that stage is reached he may feel him-
self strong enough to expel Lang.
There are six Assembly subdivisions
in East Perth, and at the late by-election
J J. Kenneally, now out of the Cabinet,
was beaten in all six. This in an elec-
torate which had been Labor ever since
the war. Looking at the figures Westra-
lian Labor marvels how it managed to
scrape back at the general election, and
the other side why it didn’t gain office
with a substantial majority.
The report brought back from Vic-
toria that the debts of one wheat-farmer
in Dunstan’s State had been reduced
from £17,000 to £11,000 drove Bill
Angwin, chairman of Westralia’s Rural
Relief Board, to boast that his show had
done better.
One farmer’s liabilities have been re-
duced from £7186 to £3054. In several
other instances settlers have been relieved
of between 40 p.c. and 50 p.c. of their
liabilities.
Angwin is a retired politician, aged 73,
and was in the building trade before he
took to politics.
The Commonwealth Government is
finding £12,000,000 for reduction of
farmers’ debts and leaving State con-
cerns to distribute it at their own sweet
will. Facts which have leaked out sug-
gest that some of the beneficiaries are
bad farmers and that others have more
land than they know what to do with.
But the public is told little, the part
assigned to it being to find the
£12,000,000 and shut up.
The S.A. Government that introduced
betting shops set up a royal commission
to visit lottery-ridden States and get data
for another statesmanlike project. “For
reasons of policy” the commission has
“ ‘Sir Geoffrey Whiskard, the British High Commissioner, has put it all over you,’ said
Senator Ceilings to the Government, after its cement-duty backdown.... British parties and
newspapers are favorably impressed with the Australian tariff changes, especially as they
have been made unconditionally.”
Positively the Greatest Ventriloquial Act ever seen at Canberra: GEOFFREY
(AND JOE).
been refused information in Tasmania,
where the Government draws a substan-
tial proportion of its income from Tat-
tersall’s. The prohibition is stupid, for
if one State can tax income from another
State—and this has been done for the last
six years—it can certainly tax lottery
prizes from another State and make the
impost prohibitive. But perhaps the
sordid competition in lotteries engenders
stupidity.
“Unity” was copiously mentioned
at the “trial” and guillotining of
Garden, expellers and expelled accus-
ing one another of being deficient
in the pure “unity” spirit. Indig-
nantly repelling the charge as it con-
cerned him, Paddy Keller, president of
Lang’s organisation, thundered that
“unity” would have been achieved long
ago but for “the insistence of Mr. Ken-
neally that Mr. Theodore should be un-
conditionally reinstated.” Kenneally is
the defeated Westralian Cabinet Minister
who was president of the Federal A.L.P.
Theodore’s choicest term for the Lang-
Garden crowd after his expulsion was
“leather-lunged lowbrows” ; all the same,
Garden, it seems, infuriated the Keller
bhoys by being as “insistent” as Ken-
neally for “unconditional reinstatement,”
though Theo has not bothered to apply
for it.
With the return of Forgan Smith, there
may be a reshuffle of the Queensland
Cabinet pack. A shift for Dash to some
less argumentative job than that of
Transport is predicted, and the suaver
Hanlon is the most likely successor.
Hanlon was regarded as the prospective
Transport man when the Ministry was
being formed in 1932. Forgan Smith
will have a new Opposition-leader to
face when he comes back, Moore having
resigned.
Forgan Smith leaves a wide opening
for a dirty return when he states that
heavy-vehicle taxation on commercial
road motors is charged in England. It is,
but for a truck the fee is £35 p.a.
—it is £958 p.a. under the Queensland
strangulation system. Moreover, in Eng-
land such a vehicle may carry up to 12
tons for the same charge. Five tons is
the maximum load allowed by Mr.
Smith’s Commissars.
After proceedings which have cost
£12,000, the Privy Council reserved its
decision in James v. the Commonwealth.
That same day the U.S. Supreme Court
declared the Duffy Coal Act “a viola-
tion of the rights of the States,” because
it set up a board to regulate production
and prices of coal and coalminers’ wages.
Judgment and grounds seem strangely
familiar; but then Federal Constitutions
are tricky things. Plain men in America
and Australia envy the simplicity and
finality of the British Constitution, so
adaptable to emergencies and modern
needs. Lawyers, of course, demur.
Disregarding U.A.P. objections, N, S.
Wales Education Minister Drummond
insists on going to London at the
public expense to attend some con-
ference or other. Premier Stevens
and Attorney-General Manning are
already in London with nothing to do.
The other side supported a U.A.P.-
minority protest against Drummond s
jaunt, but it doesn’t really mind, knowing
that the prolonged absence of one-fourth
of the Cabinet will make first-class elec-
tion material when the time comes. Tax-
payers have different views. Still, tax-
payers may learn from these costly
lessons that Australia doesn’t need 74
Ministers, and would be far better with-
out provincial control of education,
which admits of any one of seven Edu-
cation Ministers (six superfluous) decid-
ing at any time that his presence is re-
quired in London.
A year or two ago, Townsend, the
Californian doctor who invented the
“plan” for giving every American —male
and female, white and colored —$200 a
month at 60, loomed up as a possible
rival to Roosevelt. Now he is one with
the Coxeys and other mob-heroes whose
heads burst in America from time to
time. His partner, Clements, admitted to
a Congressional Committee that he had
made $77,000 out of the Townsend stunt
in two years or so. Now Townsend
has admitted writing to Clements:
You and I have the world by the tail on
a downhill pull. There will be a hatful
of money for those who stood by the
pension drive.
So pass all the easy-money boys.
The Loan Council has withdrawn its
opposition to the inflation of State bor-
rowing programmes by the addition of
enormous amounts for “statutory
bodies.” So Sydney’s Water Board, which
has wasted money gloriously on “works”
that wouldn’t work, is to get £3,000,000
in 1936-37. With the Sydney Govern-
ment’s own allotment, N. S. Wales
is to have £9,053,000 of new money.
Sydney Ministers seem astonished at their
own moderation.
Rev, Carruthers, the Speck’s Douglas
Credit Assemblyman, gave evidence of a
sort before the Banking Commission when
that wandering concern was in Hobart,
but was pulled up for criticising one of
the commissioners. The reverend poli-
tician spoke to a gathering of the elect in
Sydney last week, and went to Canberra
to tell Lyons that it was “not too late even
now” to add a Douglas Creditor to the
commission. “Mr. Lyons,” he complains,
“avoided an interview.” Still, a P.M.
can’t see every crank who calls at his
office with some ridiculous request or
demand.
Thus, sternly, Mr. Chaffey, the N. S.
Wales Chief Secretary, on press puzzle
competitions:
One unfortunate feature of these com-
petitions is that persons with slender re-
sources are tempted to invest their money
in the belief that they might gain a sub-
stantial cash prize.... The public should
realise that their individual chance of win-
ning these competitions is small.
But scarcely as small as in a State lottery,
in which the odds are 100,000 to 1
against winning first prize and 122.8 to 1
against winning any prize.
Queensland’s Transport Strangulation
Board has seized another motor-truck on
the public highway. The owner had
applied for registration, but the £604
annual “fee” for one truck was beyond
his means. So was a fine of £lO9.
Now they have taken his truck, and he
is putting up some quite irrelevant state-
ment about having to go on the dole.
From Molongloside;
Gullett’s personal expenses during his nine
months’ absence from Australia last year were
£lOO a month, exclusive of cost of staff. There
is little to show for this expenditure. It is
nearly two years since a Minister was detailed
to attend to trade treaties, and not one treaty
has come to light, nor is any likely to follow
the bewildering tariff changes introduced on
Friday when members were packing up for
another long holiday. Many of Gullett’s friends
think he has missed the bus. He could have
had one of the then-vacant Hughes portfolios
when he returned from abroad, but declined it;
and Hughes came back into the Cabinet.


THE CAMERONS ARE COMING.
“While Haile Silassie and suite were at the King David hotel, Arab riots in Jerusalem necessitated the calling out of British troops. Cameron Highlanders, headed by
pipers, paraded the city.”


SPEED UP THOSE FLYING PISTONS!
THE NEW
SHELL
MOTOR
PERSONAL ITEMS
One ot the few Australian-born centen-
arians passed on in Sydney when William
Roberts died at Haberfield (N.S.W.).
His father was married at Parramatta in
1828, and he himself knew most of the
great figures of early Australia, including
Wentworth, Parkes, Dailey, Robertson,
Cowper and the Coxes. When Roberts was
14 he was with his father on the Ophir
when gold was discovered by Hargraves,
and till a few years ago be told clearly and
with much detail a flood of first-hand
stories of the first great rushes across the
Blue Mountains. Most of his life he
was a farmer. He is survived by a sister
of 97, who is still hale enough to make
the journey from Young (N.S.W.) to
Sydney by herself, and by his widow,
whom he married 60 years ago.
Alex. Hunt went from N. S, Wales *0
the small Blackall Range town of
Maleny, about 50 miles north of Bris-
bane, in the days when there was more
A Man from Maleny.
big scrub there than farms. A pleasant-
tempered South Coaster, he established a
store and a dairy herd of Illawarra stud
cattle there and prospered. His roots are
so firmly planted in Maleny that to re-
move him would be almost like moving
the Blackall Range. And his work for
the dairy herd book societies has made
him a national figure among dairymen.
He played a great part years ago in
reconciling the differences of the Aus-
tralian Shorthorn and Illawarra cattle
societies before they amalgamated, and
his tact in the chair saved many serious
breaches.
Alfred Butt, who told the Budget in-
quiry committee in London that he had
made a gamble to pay his election ex-
penses, is no mere belted knight. Man-
agement of a lot of theatres from Glas-
gow to London earned him a baronetcy
in 1928, 11 years after work in the
Ministry of Food got him a K.B.E. He
has been M.P. —Unionist —for Balham
and Tooting since 1922, His son
Kenneth, who showed such a flair for
getting a good thing on the Stock Ex-
change at the right moment, is heir to
his title,
A final analysis of the identity of
Henry Lawrence, alias Singleton, alias
Colonel Metzler (or Mexler), alias Colonel
Lopez, charged by the Italians with sell-
ing dum-dum bullets to Haile Silassie, and
exposed in the Commons by Mr. Eden,
has proved that Carlton (Vic.) produces
geniuses outside footballers. But, though
he was born in the football suburb, the
gentleman with the names is only
vaguely Australian, as the mixed story
of his adventures seems to be vaguely
true. His father was an immigrant Pole
and his mother an immigrant from New
York. And his real name is Bernstein,
and he is a variety artist and has lived in
Europe most of his life.
Charles Kingsford Smith, who rests
somewhere in the Malay seas, left £12,875
—all to his widow, who is sole executrix.
Death has claimed M, J. Hade, director
of the Warwick Co-op. Dairy Associa-
tion (Q.) and Glengallan shire councillor.
When 19, then a member of the mounted
infantry, he was one of six Queensland
stalwarts to represent the State at Queen
Victoria’s diamond jubilee.
F. W. Cumbrae-Stewart, the pioneer
registrar of Queensland University, which
he has served since its foundation in
1910, has delivered his last lecture be-
fore retirement. When Cumbrae-Stewart
took over the job he was chief clerk to
the law firm of Thynne and Macartney,
with qualifications which included a
B.C.L. of Oxford and a catholic experi-
ence of Queensland legal procedure. His
first university offices were in loaned
rooms in a boot factory, but he had the
business side ironed out and well estab-
lished when, in 1925, he was appointed
Garrick Professor of Law, Oxford made
him a D.C.L. in 1922, and he became
a K.C, in 1927. During the war he served
as a censor and interpreter. He has pub-
lished many legal works, and was editor
of the Queensland Law Reports 1901-3.
O. C. D, Gower, like most men of
small stature, is brimful of energy and
goodfellowship and, after 35 years of
vigorous business life, still has the energy
for a hard game of tennis —until recently
he varied his exercise by playing a
straight bat for senior cricket teams. A
South Australian, he began work in
Howard Smiths, went to the National
Mutual Insurance in
1903 and by 1932
had risen to be
manager of the
Queensland branch.
Last year he was
transferred to take
charge in N. S.
Wales.
Riflemen all over
Australia were
familiar with the
straight figure and
Mona Lisa smile of
just-retired T. D.
Sherbon, N. S. W.
su p e rintendent of
rifle clubs and one
of the fathers of the
range - shooting
movement. When
he took control 24
years ago there were
in the State only 90
clubs, with 1800
members; they have
grown to 285, with
14,000 members.
His monument is the
riflemen’s train
which runs to Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) on
GOWER, of the National Mutual.
shoot days and which is popularly known
as the “Sherbon special.” His busiest
years were in war-time —he had a big
hand in the rifle instruction of the A.I.F.
and in the organisation of the A.I.F.
motor transport service.
Some June birthdays:
W. B. Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.),
75, medico-knight David Hardie (Brisbane), 80,
on 4th; Bishop Radford (formerly of Goul-
burn), 67, Prof. A. B. Taylor (Hobart), 40, and
Mrs. TEneas Gunn (We of the Never Never), on
sth; ex-Defence Minister T. W. Glasgow,
K.C.8., 60, Justice Inglis Clark (Speck), 54,
Justice Boyce (N.S.W. Supreme Court), 64,
Walter Marks (former M.H.R. for Wentworth,
61, and film censor O’Reilly, 59, on 6th; F. W.
Mole (former Q. Public Curator), 71, and Prof.
G. V. Portus, M.A. (Adel.), 53, on 7th; Dr.
Prescott (Sydney), 79, S. L. Gardner, M.H.R.
(Robertson), 52, and author Charles Rodda, 45,
on 9th; art critic William Moore (Syd.), 68,
and G. R. Steer (gen. man. Brisbane Tram-
ways), 63, on 11th; John Lane Mullins (N.S.W.),
79, Kent Hughes, M.L.A. (Vic.), 41, and Canon
Hammond (Syd.), 66, on 12th; entomologist
Walter Froggatt (Syd.), 78, on 13th; Rowland
James, M.H.R. (Hunter), 51, on 14th; Tas.
Railway Commissioner F. P. St. Hill, 62, on
15th; J. H. Prowse, M.H.R. (Forrest), 65, and
Bishop Halse (Riverina), 55, on 16th; Justice
Cantor (N.S.W. Industrial Commission), 49,
on 17th; P. A. M. Mcßride, M.H.R. (Grey,
S.A.), 44, R.C. Bishop Barry (Goulburn), 61,
Frank Tate (Vic.’s former Director of Educa-
tion), 73, and T. L. Axford, V.C. (W.A.),
41, on 18th; Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Director-
Gen. of Quarantine), 56, R. A. Crouch
(former M.H.R. for Corangamite), 68, R. C.
Grieve, V.C. (Vic.), 47, and J. W. Kitto (Aust.
Broadcasting Commission), 65, on Nth; J. M.
Fowler (former M.H.R. for Perth), 71, on 20th;
N.S.W. Govt. Printer Alfred Kent, 64, on 21st;
Major-Gen. Coxen, 66, and Prof. J. B. Cleland
(Adel.), 58, on 22nd; knight Gilbert Dyett
(pres. R.5.5.1.L.), 45, on 23rd; R. O. Black-
wood (Vic.), 75, and Heber Longman (Director
Q’land Museum), 56, on 24th; T. J. Roseby
(long of Syd. Water Board), 70, Harold Luxton
(former Lord Mayor of Melb.), 48, and Errol
G. Knox (Syd.), 47, on 25th; author C. L.
Barrett (Melb.), 57, and Melb.-born Prof. W. K.
Hancock (Birmingham Uni.), 38, on 26th;
geologist Dr. Frank Stillwell (Vic.), 48, Dr.
Fred Watson (editor of Historical Records),
58, and Speaker George Pollock, M.L.A. (Q.),
46, on 27th; ex-Speck Senator J. H. Keating,
64, on 28th; Tas. Solicitor-Gen. Griffiths, 55,
knight Victor Wilson (ex-Commerce Minister),
59, and painter Norman Carter, 61, on 30th.
“O, Kay”; Jack Orry-Kelly, bracketed
with Kay Francis in the Rockefeller
Centre Fashion Academy’s best-dressed
film-star award for 1936, is a N. S.
Welshman. Called “the Patou of Holly-
wood,” he is one of the highest-paid
designers in the world. Orry-Kelly—
you’ll see the name in most Warner Bros,
talkies “jackets”—was lured to Holly-
wood in 1932. His mother still lives
at Kiama (N.S.W.).
Exit in Mackay (N.Q.), at 83, George
King, a shipmate of Andrew Fisher when
the P.M.-to-be first came to Australia on
the steamer New Guinea in the ’eighties.
For 12 years before
that George King
had been in the
British Army in
India, of the genuine
Mulvaney - Ortheris
period; he served
under Bobs Bahadur
on the Kabul-Kan-
dahar march, with
the Afghanistan
Medal 1878-79-80 to
prove it. Even our
Awful North did not
kill his soldiering
spirit. He was for
years a highly-useful
instructor and n.c.o.
in the Kennedy regi-
ment of the old
Queensland Defence
Force at Ravens-
wood and Charters
Towers, so that the
long-service medal
also came his way in
the course of time.
But so did the stone
dust from drills as
yet unacquainted
with water jets, and
miner’s phthisis did
what Afghan bullets would have liked to
do. His wife and six adult Queenslanders
survive the fine old soldier of the Queen.
The Earl of Darnley, who has just
divorced his wife, a daughter of the late
Glen Kidston, has Australian blood in
him. His mother was Florence Morphy,
of Beechworth (Vic.), who married his
father when the latter’s name was known
as well as Bradman’s —he was Ivo Bligh
the cricketer. The Earl has already had
one experience of divorce —but that time
the lady divorced him.
John Lavington Bonython is the second
generation of knighthood in one of the
best-known S. Australian families, which
built up the “Advertiser” and is re-
nowned for its good works and public
spirit. John Langdon Bonython was
knighted in 1898 when editor and pro-
prietor of the “ ’Tiser,” and in the last
few years has given away £170,000 to the
University and School of Mines and for
The Second Generation.
the extension of Parliament House
(£100,000). He is still hale and hearty
at 88. J. Lavington, his son, here pic-
tured, edited his father’s weekly paper
for 18 years and mixed journalism with
municipal politics. He has been Lord
Mayor of Adelaide three times, and is a
member of endless boards and trusts. He
got his knighthood in 1935.
Forgotten by the present Brisbane
generation, C. E. James, dead at 76 at
Wahroonga (N.S.W.), was a great public
influence. Born in Hull and bred in
Leeds, he was sent to Australia in 1882
with a party of young ministers selected
to strengthen the Methodist Church. He
was in charge in many N.S.W. towns —
Bathurst and West Maitland included—
went to Tonga as a missionary for a time,
and for five years was in charge of the
Albert-street church, the Methodist
“cathedral” of Brisbane. For a little while
he was a leader-writer on the “Courier.”
His two sons a generation ago were idols
of the northern sporting world. Jack,
the eldest, was captain of 8.G.5., and
at Sydney University was a cricket
and football blue and played in the
baseball nine. His brother E.S. (“Ophir”)
duplicated this sporting record. Jack, a
medico It.-col., commanded the 4th Field
Ambulance during the war, and returned
to be one of Canberra’s first medicoes.
E.S. passed from school to Hawkesbury
College and then to Sydney University,
where he was one of the first batch of
students to take the B.V.Sc. degree (only
Professor Stewart antedated them). He
was a major with the D.A.D.V.S., 4th
Division, was twice mentioned in dis-
patches and collected an 0.8. E. before
joining the British Veterinary Service,


SdIHS
01
S10VSSIH
ssnmiM
AWA
Your friends at sea are no further, for communica-
tion purposes, than your nearest telegraph office.
Whether your message be of a business or private
nature, birthday or wedding anniversary congratula-
tions, the wireless services are at your disposal.
Radio binds friendships.
New Guinea, Papua and Fiji have direct wireless
telegraph services with Australia at moderate rates.
Messages may be lodged at the A.W.A. Central Radio
Offices, at Sydney or Melbourne, or at any Postal
Telegraph Office in the Commonwealth.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


h
A UMEJUKE
QMr & omm commit
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
MINING ENGINEERS,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
Send us your
inquiries for all
classes of
mining
machinery and
equipment.
Rockbreakers,
Stamp Batteries,
Screens, Tools,
etc.
Manufacturers of
the Patent “Cur-
vilinear” Concen-
trating Table and
Mcßichpals Gold-
saving Machines
for alluvial work.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE; 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. . • • • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office ; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world,
prafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 10 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£■ £> £> £> £
1925.. 538.833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
3 926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 600,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
81 p.c.
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
6 p.c.
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451.919
1935.. 275,591 250,006 .20,000 5,591 3,457,510
Sip.c. .
1936.. 294,403 262,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
Though bank earnings have exhibited a
stubbornness overcome by most other
traders, the outlook is now better than
at any time since the big break in the
markets over half a dozen years ago. For
the nine years to the close of accounts
in 1930, the National paid a steady 10
p.c. ; the, rate dropped to 5 p.c. for the
three years to the end of March, 1935,
and was lifted to 5? p.c. for the last
term, the final being at the rate of
p.c. p.a. This and other things heart-
ened the market, which over the last 12
months lengthened its bid for the fully-
paid £lO shares from £l2 13s. to £l5 10s.,
and for the £8 shares paid to £5 from
£6 6s. to £7 Bs. At the higher prices the
return is 3.7 p.c. and 3.5 p.c. respec-
tively on a 5 i p.c. div. basis. The in-
vestor who looks for approximately 4
p.c. on his money counts on a 6 p.c. dis-
tribution, which Ipoks a possibility
by next balancing date.
The outstanding feature of the latest
accounts was an expansion of £1,263,689
in advances, accompanied by a contrac-
tion of £627,387 in interest-bearing
deposits and a growth of £1,347,592 in
current accounts. The net reduction in
liquids was £806,428 Government
securities, etc. (£1,661,791), were down
£1,433,770, and Commonwealth Treasury
bills (£2,670,000) were £555,000 lighter:
1920. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital ~ £2,000,000 £6,000,006 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 49,809 47,590 47,579
Bills, etc. .. 962,908 623,948 623,564
Free deposits.. 11,926,167 12,448,036 13,795,628
Fixed deposits 11,472,035 24,601,379 23,973,992
Liquid assets.. 13,194,160 14,549,672 13,743,244
Advances .. 13,903,139 31,182,973 32,446,662
Premises, etc... 643,636 1,292,644 1,306,771
In some respects the position is ap-
proximately the same as it was in 1929.
When the books last closed the ratio of
fixed to total deposits was 63.4 p.c. as
against 66.4 p.c. at the previous balance
and 63.7 p.c, in ’29. Advances amounted
to 85.9 p.c. of total deposits, compared
with 84.1 p.c. in ’35 and 86 p.c. in ’29.
At the same dates liquids were 35.7 p.c.,
38.5 p.c. and 36.5 p.c. respectively of the
liabilities to the public. It is a very
comfortable position, and all reflects the
recovery of industry as evidenced by a
growing demand for working capital.
After providing for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, the spring
in the year’s gross earnings (£1,163,037)
was £76,038. Exes. (£868,634) took
£57,326 of the increase, leaving the net
result £18,812 better at 5.8 p.c. on capital
as against 5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 5.5, 11,2 and 13.1
p.c. back to 1930. On capital and re-
serves combined the net result was a
mere 3.4 p.c.
Though the flood of imports has
checked further expansion of credit at
the moment, interest rates show a ten-
dency to strengthen, the seasonal outlook
is satisfactory, and so are export prices,
while locally trade turnovers promise to
remain lively. Prospects of further im-
provement in earnings at next balancing
date are, therefore, encouraging.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
~ Replacement
Year and De-
tnded predation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
124 p.c.
£ £ £ £
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 ~ 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 .. 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 .. 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 ~ 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disdosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548 »
61 p.c.
1935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 .. 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus issue.
With one eye on the past and the other
on the future, the market prices the fully-
paid £2O shares at £4l 15s. or there-
abouts. The return at £4l 15s. is 3 p.c.
on a 6} p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 3.8 p.c, on his money
counts on an 8 p.c. distribution. Last
year’s declared net earnings (£937,980,
up £6031) were a shade over 8 p.c. on
capital. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing a net addition of £222,321 to the
replacement and depreciation reserves,
some or all of which may be genuine
profit. There are also various other
corners, including suspense accounts
(£2,368,393, up £24,612), where the man-
agement has from time to time unob-
trusively tucked away some surplus
earnings.
What a sweet thing it has been for
shareholders is obvious from the follow-
ing compressed history of the capital
account; —•
Cash-paid capital .. .. .. £2,425,000
Bonus scrip .. 13,176,000
Total £15,600,000
Capital returned . . .. .. .. 3,900,000
Leaving ~ .. .. .. £11,700,000
Following the last gift of £5,850,000 (one
for one) in November, 1934, the de-
clared intention was to continue distri-
buting the same amount in dividends. So
the rate of dividend was cut in halves,
making it 6? p.c. The extra ss. per share
(li p.c.) sent out with last year’s div.
was to cover the demands of the tax-
gatherer in connection with the 1934
issue of gift scrip.
Exactly what the future holds for the
business nobody can say definitely. Still,
with things as they are, it would be diffi-
cult for the co. to avoid earning good
profits. It has large accumulations,
visible and otherwise, assets have been
mostly paid for out of earnings, and
then vigorously written down from the
same source, and the contract with the
Government for refining, selling and
financing all but a fraction of Australia’s
sugar crop is a stout anchor for earn-
ings. Also, Empire preference has taken
a lot of the sting out of the low price
of sugar in the world’s markets. Inciden-
tally, the Government is renewing the
agreement, which runs out at the end of
1936, for another five years.
Last year the Australian crop
(622,000 tons) was about 3 p.c. better
than early estimates, consumption of
fines exceeded the previous peak years
of 1928 and 1929, production in Fiji
increased, and so did sales from the co.’s
Maoriland refinery. Further all-round
increase is anticipated during the cur-
rent year. Also, the co. has become in-
terested in the manufacture of fibre
board, suitable for insulation and lining.
This board is to be made from megass.
or cane fibre, previously used as fuel at
the mills.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1925. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. £4,785,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 1,607,274 1,153,166 1,438,595
Suspense
accounts .. 1,856,909 2,343,780 2,368,392
Employees’
funds .. 39,545 50,131 45,790
Refineries, mills,
etc 5,670,772 10,226,471 10,312,700
Steamers, etc. 100,000 142,118 142,118
Distillery .. 86,292 177,225 177,616
Premises .. 52,850 56,011 56,962
Stocks.. .. 3,225,413 2,516,017 2,896,308
Book debts, etc. 1,690,484 2,599,984 2,692,067
Cash and
deposits . . 1,211,103 3,893,083 3,921,624
The increase of £380,291 in stocks was
due mainly to late shipment of the sur-
plus for export, owing to shortage of
freight. Although the co. has built itself
a fine new headquarters in O’Connell-
street, Sydney, only £951 was added to
the book value of premises last year.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit* 7J p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ „ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
1935.. 84,387 87,188 f Nil 79,731
1936. . 97,941 87,188 f 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
* After deducting debenture interest. f Two years.
A very heartening performance, all
things considered. After the public
became interested in 1926, it looked as
though the co. would develop into a
steady 8 p.c, proposition. Then slump,
exchange, the tariff and taxation dis-
located sales, made it impossible to get'
overhead back in proportion to the drop
in turnover, and brought trouble with
stocks and debtors’ balances. Moreover,
owing to the universal nature of the busi-
ness and the wide area it covers—
country trade accounts for a large slice
of turnover —readjustment of the big
organisation to altered trading condi-
tions involved a larger range of problems
than most other traders had to wrestle
with. However, finances were comfort-
able, thus enabling the co. to take imme-
diate advantage of any improvement in
trading conditions; this and the man-
agement’s success in dealing with its
difficulties are illustrated by the recovery
of earnings over the last four years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts turnover further im-
proved, thanks to continued growth of
employment, better prices for primary
products and the greater attractive-
ness of the store, to which new show
windows, better displays and lift services
and reorganised departments contributed.
After paying all exes, and making allow-
ance for taxation and depreciation, the
improvement in the declared net result
was £10,630, making the spring £92,342
over the last five years:
Debenture Available for
Feb., Profit. Interest, etc. Shareholders.
1927.. £262,922 £112,602 £150,320
1928.. 267,714 70,767 196,947
1929.. 270,404 70,000 200,404
1930.. 257,049 70,000 187,049
1931.. 125,280 70,000 55,280
1932.. 46,530 63,437 16,907*
1933.. 66,727 49,910 16,817
1934.. 100,689 48,825 51,864
1935.. 128,242 43,855 84,387
1936.. 138,872 40,931 97,941
*Loss.
A further reduction of £389,000 in deben-
ture stock (the co. went to its bankers
for £250,000 for the purpose) reduced
the interest bill by £2924, leaving £97,941
(up £13,554) available for shareholders.
It was enough to pay a full year’s pref.
div. (7j p.c. less statutory cut = 5.8 p.c.)
and show 4.3 p.c. on the £1,250,000 of
ord. capital. Actually the prefs. were
handed two years’ divs., cleaning their
slate to date, and, after a four years’
dry spell, the ords. came into the picture
again with 2 p.c.
The market, which expected better,
shortened its bid for the fully-paid pound
ords. from 21s. 3d. to 18s. lOd. over the
last couple of months. At the lower
figure the return is 2.1 p.c. on a 2 p.c.
div. basis, or 4.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. dis-
tribution. The prefs. at 235. 6d. return
4.9 p.c. on the basis of last year’s dis-
tribution (5.8 p.c.). The net tangible
cover is 555. prefs. and 21s. ords.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1927. 1935. 1936.
Ord. capital .. £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures.. 1,000,000 790,000 401,000
Overdraft.. .. - 250,000
Sundry creditors. . 249,210 137,658 139,963
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc... 1,750,237 1,838,330 1,842,326
Stocks ~ ~ 1,130,878 704,811 715,026
Hook debts, cash,
etc 441,777 464,249 345,893
To reduce the debenture debt by
£389,000, carry an extra £10,215 net of
stocks and add £3996 to the book value
of fixed assets, the co. went to its bankers
for £250,000 and drew upon cash,
etc., for £118,356. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£269,956, including stocks) was £28,554.
As for the current term, bank credit
threatens to be a trifle tighter, owing to
the flood of imports. The outlook in
other directions suggests that turnover
is not likely to diminish, and there
should be further savings in the interest
bill.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 8,663 .10 p.c. = 6000 2663 28,204
1927.. 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
1928.. 10,514 10 „ „ 6000 1
Provident fund, £lOOO f 3514 36 ’ 084
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ ~ 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,764 10 „ „ 9000 1 . ~,,,
Provident fund, £lOOO J 04
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „ ~ 9000 1213 50,504
1934. , 12,210 10 ~ ~ 9000 1 9010 52 514
Provident fund, £l2OO j 2U4U 82,014
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1986.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 1 „„„„ wws
Provident fund, £lOOO j 2828 88,528
This Adelaide trustee co. has put up a
very stout performance. Not only has
it come through the last few difficult
years with scarcely a quiver so far as
earnings are concerned, but it has con-
tinued to pay a steady 10 p.c, on an
extra £30,000 of capital, gathered in 1930,
making the total on the share register
£90,000 in 360,000 pound shares paid to
ss. each. Much of the co.’s success has
been due to the support its big parent
(Elder, Smith and Co.) has been able to
give or influence. Continued expansion
of the business has largely offset the
effects of the fall in interest rates and
values, which affected returns from in-
vestments and corpus and other commis-
sion earnings.
How the business has stepped along
and the cost of handling it are seen in
the following table: —•
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Profit. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3 „
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251 70.9 „
1930.. 10,307,327 41,371 28,270 68.3 „
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1932.. 11,124,002 40,252 29,092 72.2 „
1933.. 11,614,705 39,496 29,283 74.1 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1935.. 12,509,078 43,395 31,209 71.9 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.8 „
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the value of new trusts put on
the books exceeded the value of those
wound up by £441,520. The growth of
£557 in gross earnings and reduction of
£B5 in exes, lifted the net result to 14.2
p.c. on capital as against 13.5, 13.5, 11.3,
12.4, 13 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1930. In-
terest and rents alone (£9049) were 10
p.c. on capital, leaving returns from the
trustee section of the business, growth of
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


Motion Picture Industry
Increase of Capital from £so,ooo £250,000
NATIONAL STUDIOS LIMITED
(Motion Picture Studios, Pagewood, Sydney)
Registered under the Companies Acts of New South Wales 1899/1918
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
A GOOD PROFIT HAS
ALREADY REEN
MADE
National Studios Limited have
been operating under full pro-
duction since their opening,
and a good profit has already
been made. So successful have
these operations been and so
much enhanced are the pros-
pects of the Company by the
Film Quota Act, that it has been
decided to increase the Capital
to £250,000, and thus ensure a
continuity of Production and
enable the Company to erect
additional buildings and pur-
chase additional equipment,
etc., as required.
Nominal Capital - £25tKOOO
30,000
100,000
120,000
Divided into
250,000 Shares of £1 each, as follows:
Shares already allotted
Further Shares now offered for public
subscription
Shares held in reserve
£30,000
£lOO,OOO
£120,000
250,000
DIRECTORS:
£250,000
C. M. C. SHANNON, Esq., 369 George Street, Sydney.
Hon Sir SAMUEL WALDER, M.L.C., Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sir JOHN HARRISON, K.8.E., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Sir JAMES MURDOCH, K.R.E., C.M.G., Park Street, Sydney.
GEORGE WIRTH, Esq., 80 Beach Road, Darling Point, Sydney.
GENERAL MANAGER:
FREDERICK G. S. DAVIES, 3 Manning Road, Woollahra, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. FISHER and MACANSH, 72 King Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, King and George Streets, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER, SON AND COMPANY,
Chartered Accountants (Ausl.), 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY and REGISTERED OFFICE:
C. R. M. SHANNON, A.C.A. (Ausl.), Messrs. Shannon and Dickms,
Chartered Accountants (Avist.), 369 George Street, Sydney.
SALIENT FEATURES
National Studios Limited, at its incep-
tion, by very special arrangements with
the Ganmont British Picture Corpora-
tion Studios in England, were able to
bring to Sydney, the most modern
Studio Plans, Equipment and Systems.
In fact, National Studios, built on 22 i
acres of land at Pagewood, is classed
by Hollywood and English experts as
the most modern and efficient in the
world.
Feature pictures notably Mr. Charles
Chauvel’s “Uncivilised” for Expedition-
ary Films Limited; and “The Flying
Doctor” by National Productions Ltd.
in association with Gaumont British
Picture Corporation, London; have
been successfully produced in National
Studios at Pagewood, Sydney.
The importation by National Produc-
tions Limited for the production of
“The Flying Doctor” of Charles Farrell
and of overseas Director and Tech-
nicians, amongst whom were Mr. Miles
Mander, Director, Captain J. O. C.
Orton, Scenarist and Editor, and Mr.
Derek Willi&ms, Lighting Expert, has
already brought to the Studios both in
Australia and New Zealand, and particu-
larly England and America, consider-
able publicity, and this will be further
supplemented when the picture is ex-
hibited in those various countries.
OBJECTS OF THE
COMPANY
It is now the intention of the Com-
pany to extend its ramifications to pro-
duce films for Distribution both here
and abroad, and to arrange the impor-
tation from time to time of such Direc-
tors and feature artists as may be suit-
able for leading roles in production,
and to utilise and build up Australian
artists for the Company’s productions.
Contracts with Independent Producers
already in an advanced stage of finalisa-
tion, plus the opportunity created by
the Film Quota Act to commence the
production of pictures of a high stan-
dard, make it eminently desirable to
erect further buildings and to purchase
additional equipment and plant, etc.
This additional equipment, buildings
and plant would enable the company
almost to double the present revenue
from leasing the studios with only a
small increase in overhead.
FILM QUOTA ACT
The Film Quota Act came into force on
January Ist, 1936. Under that Act it
is compulsory that in the first year of
operation 5% of the films distributed
must be Australian productions, the
percentage to increase yearly for five
years when it becomes 15%. Under the
Act approximately twenty Australian
pictures are required to be produced in
1936, and on the assumption of pres-
ent total importation, this number
increases to thirty in 1937, forty in
1938, fifty in 1939, and sixty in 1940.
GENERAL.
Undoubtedly there was never a more
opportune moment for the establishing
of the making of Moving Pictures on a
large scale in N.S.W. In England and
America the concentration of Picture
Production has proved more economi-
cal than having Studios scattered in
various centres. There is not the slight-
est doubt that Pagewood will become
the Hollywood of Australia. The
establishment of a large and expanding
film colony has started and continuous
film production will further establish
Pagewood as the centre of the Austra-
lian Motion Picture Industry.
APPLICATIONS FOR
SHARES
The Company’s Prospectus and Share
Application Forms may be obtained
from all members of the Stock
Exchange and from the Secretary,
National Studios Limited, City Office.
369 George Street, Sydney.
NO CASH CONSIDERATION HAS BEEN GRANTED TO ANYBODY
IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROMOTION OF THE COMPANY
The Directors extend an invitation to prospective investors to view the Studios;
arrangements will be made by the Secretary at the Company’s. City Office,
369 George Street, Sydney.


ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.;
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
For Sale.
BATTERY: Ten-head, 12001 b. stamps,
countershafted, double-cammed and with
two automatic feeders. In good working
order. Located at Gympie (Q-).
Price, £5OO. Enterprise Gold Mines,
National Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
THE
lIMITCn insurance
U 111 IC U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Aim'.
* * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.-—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney'.— Advt.
Public Notice.
WEST AUSTRALIAN MANGANESE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
HOLDERS of Debentures who have not yet
surrendered their certificates and received in
exchange a cheque for a return of capital at
the rate of Nine and four-tenths pence in the £
are requested to do so at once, as the Trustees
intend shortly to terminate the trust and, in
conformity with Section 187 of the Western
Australian Companies Act 1893, hand all un-
claimed money to the Treasury.
WILL DAVIES,
Trustee for the Debenture Holders,
West Australian Manganese Company, Limited.
FORD, RHODES & DAVIES, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), St. George’s House, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
which can be expected to continue, to
swell investments and the returns there-
from.
During the year the co. bought itself
a freehold in Currie-street, Adelaide, for
£17,340. Government securities figure
at £141,332 ; advances, £6256 ; cash, etc.,
£6686. The amount coming to sundry
creditors was £14,587.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to ss. at 15s. 4d., at which figure
the return is 3.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 3.9 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribu-
tion. In the past the policy has been to
keep the div. steady and get in more
capital as the growth of the business
warrants.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
! Dividends.
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 7i p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 25.211 9375 81 p.c. = 10,625 5211 60,874
1930.. 14.436 9375 ■ Nil 5061 55,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 43,936
1931.. 13,106 9375 Nil 3731 40,205
Added reserves, £12,938 .. 27,267
1932.. 6,166 9375 Nil 30,476
Added reserves, £11,087 .. .. 19,389
1933.. 4,100 4688* Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 .. 35,569
1934.. 2,405 4688* Nil 37,852
Depreciation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 5,606 4688* Nil 918 65,214
1936.. 10,640 9375 Nil 1265 63,949
*Half year, 3 J p.c.
Slump, exchange, the tariff, the tea-
growers’ restriction scheme and growth
of competition have littered the path of
distributors with obstacles, and the prefs.
in this Robur Co. got only half a full meal
for each of the three years to the close of
accounts in 1935, Meanwhile, consump-
tion continued to increase, the debts
problem became less acute and the co.
extended its activities by purchase of the
Oriental Tea Co. in N. S. Wales,
by manufacture of table pottery, etc., and
by entry into the refreshment-room busi-
ness. Also, costs have been got on to
a lower basis.
Severe competition, which means price-
paring, continues, thus making it diffi-
cult to squeeze much in the way of profit
out of the business. Still, after providing
for depreciation, taxation and other con-
tingencies, there was a sharp spring of
£5034 in last year’s net earnings, raising
them to £10,640, or enough to pay a full
year’s pref. divs. (£9375) and show 1 p.c.
on ord. capital. After handing the prefs.
1\ p.c., there was still £14,062 (2s. 3d.
per share) coming to them for arrears
of divs. when the books closed. It is
difficult to say when the ords., which
received 8y p.c. in the first year, but no-
thing since, are likely to come into the
picture again. The £1265 of the year’s
net earnings put on the shelf re-
duced the amount of ord, capital unre-
presented by tangibles to £63,949 —good-
will, not treated as an asset herein,
figures at £75,000.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances: —-
1929.1 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 57,551 92,029 94,438 29,047
Property and) f
plant .. J- 63,491 149,140 -j 48,902 47,808
Investments J [ 68,901 64,624
Stocks .. 156,076 91,232 65,844 69,043
Book debts .. 41,800 44,431 25,866 23,586
Cash .. ~ 9,623 31,435 74,399 14,723
To reduce the outside debt by £65,391,
cash was drawn upon for £59,676. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£78,305, including stocks)
was £6634.
At 20s. 4d. (17s. a year ago) the prefs.
return 7.3 p.c., plus arrears. The cover
is 295. 9d. in net tangibles. The ords.
are not listed.
The arrangement whereby Consoli-
dated Press, Ltd. (floated by Theodore
and Packer after their Emperor venture
had gone on the market), took over the
“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney) provided
that one director, to be approved by
D. F. H. Packer, should be appointed by
Associated Newspapers. T. H. Wynne-
Lewis, who used to be a Fiji accountant
(he was auditor to Morris Hedstrom’s),
has been given the job.
* * 4= *
At Gold Fields Aus. Development’s
annual roll-up in London, chairman J. A.
Agnew seemed pleased with develop-
ment results obtained on the co.’s Moon-
light leases, Wiluna (W.A.). Ore reserves
of 130,000 tons, calculated on average
widths exposed and sampled below the
oxidised zone, are expected to average
275. a ton, with indefinite tonnages in the
oxidised regions. Stoping and primary
crushing have begun ; for a start a monthly
output of 3000 tons ore is reckoned
on, to be increased to 7500 tons by
August. Concentrates from Moonlight
ore will be treated at Wiluna Gold’s
smelter, now in course of erection, and
until July Moonlight stone will be put
through the flotation section only, con-
centrates being stored. The co.’s Kintore
(Kunanalling) holding and the newly-
acquired Leopold Ranges reservation also
augur well. On the former, ore going
£7 18s. 6d. a ton over a width of 43in.
and a length of 132 ft. has been disclosed
by driving on the 100 ft. level.
* * * *
C. R. Hills, surveyor, reckons avail-
able ore at Yellowdine, a recent addition
to the list of W.A. producers, at 118,000
tons, averaging 26.7dwt. And the east
lode is expected to yield a further
73,700 tons for every 100 ft. of sinking.
The co, aims at crushing 2500 tons in
its first month—the capacity of the plant
is 5000 tons. The main shaft is being
sunk to 300 ft. Crosscutting will put be-
yond doubt value of the ore-body, previ-
ously clouded by its irregular nature in
the semi-sulphide zone. Though the reef
appears to be lower in value in No.
2 level than in No. 1, payable values
have been proved for 245 ft., with a width
of 37ft. in the main body of the lode.
* * * *
A strong London mining group has
sent Dr. Loftus Hills to Meekatharra
(W.A.) to report on the whole of the
main (Paddy’s Flat) line of lode, over
which it holds an option. This aurifer-
ous belt, which has a length of roughly
3f miles, includes the Ingliston Consols,
Fenian, Marmont and Commodore.
These shows, together with a number of
others on the line, have produced in the
aggregate over a million ounces of gold.
While the metal stood at the old price,
the prospector-owners of most of these
properties mined only the best ore, and
there is believed to remain in the work-
ings large tonnages that to-day would
return good profits if mined and treated
in a big way. Ingliston Consols has been,
and still is, the principal producer. It
has been a regular contributor to the
Westralian gold output for 30 years, and,
except for a brief period, has paid regu-
lar monthly dividends.
* * * *
The enlarged joint-treatment plant of
Boulder Perseverance and North Kal-
gurli is getting into its stride, and the
latter co.’s milling quota is gradually
being raised to 12,000 tons a month.
This figure is expected to be reached by
the beginning of June. Increased ton-
nage may be accompanied by a slight
fall in the grade of ore treated.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (Menzies) announced an
18-day crushing to April 30 —536 tons
were put through for 308 fine ounces,
average being 11.5dwt. Tailings showed
less than idwt. A partial clean-up to
May 10 produced 1340 z. from 234 tons.
Milling is to be stepped up to between
50 and 60 tons a day. The low gold
content of the tailings would indicate
that extraction is improving, but the
market is unimpressed.
* * * *
Wiluna’s half-yearly div., payable on
June 6, is at' the unchanged rate of 2s.
(stg.) a share.
* ♦ * *
According to a recent Governmental
geological survey, the Pilbara field, in
the north of Westralia, offers good in-
ducements to search for gold. The Lalla
Rookh and Bamboo Creek, and probably
the Blue Spec, areas are said to include
ore-shoots which warrant further inves-
tigation by small mining cos. or strong
financial syndicates. At Lalla Rookh
there are three shoots,, averaging from
lldwt. to 15dwt. per ton, and proved
to a depth of 150 ft, worth attention.
There is a small battery near by. Bam-
boo Creek has produced by selective
mining 55,0000 z. from 34,000 tons. It
is considered that increased production
can be brought about by more satisfac-
tory mining methods. The Blue Spec
series of gold-antimony veins form part
of a line of sporadic outcrops over a
distance of at least 10 miles. One
shoot, worked for a length of 250 ft.
and ‘a width of B£ft., has yielded
11.7dwt. of gold and from 1.4 p.c. to
2.8 p.c. of antimony per ton. There are
some auriferous deposits at Marble Bar
which offer scope for mining by indi-
viduals and small parties. In these and
similar areas yet to be examined the
position regarding ore treatment, trans-
port, water supply, etc., will be investi-
gated during the year.
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) has taken
another option, this time over a show at
Mt. Magnet. Favorable features are
stated to be (1) a production to date of
22500 z. from 600 tons ; (2) a shoot so far
proved for a length of 70ft., with ore
Bft. wide and worth an ounce in one end ;
(3) a situation within 75 yards of the main
shaft of a mine which years ago yielded
29,0000 z. from 5750 tons, and in which a
bore is said to have recently exposed pay-
able values in deeper and hitherto unpros-
pected ground. Should the co. decide
at the end of two months to go on with
the option, payment of £lOOO to the ven-
dors will secure an extension of six
months.
* * * *
Lake View heads the list of Westralian
employers of labor on the goldfields. Its
workers at the end of 1935 numbered
1165, of which 357 were employed on
the surface and 808 underground. Wiluna
came next with 304 on the surface and
627 underground. Then followed Great
Boulder with 234 and 402 respectively,
Sons of Gwalia 115 and 233, South Kal-
gurli 139 and 168, Boulder Perseverance
95 and 150, North Kalgurli 48 and 148,
Norseman 99 and 1 ! 61, Lancefield 92 and
132, Youanmi 120 and 36. Ten others
aggregate 400 surface and 620 under-
ground, while the De Bernales group
gives employment to a few hundred
besides.
'*. * * *
To determine as near as possible the
bulk value of the ore exposed in its Kal-
goorhe property, Pannga has sent several
paicels to the close-handy South Kalgurli
PACIFIC FORESTS, LTD.—
SEE PAGE 39.
•„ f T t --
mi t 0 a r ? ontbs
ago 1658 tons had been crushed tor an
average of over 94dwt. A more recent
crushing of 140 tons returned 6dwt.
Chairman Beale who recently visited
Kalgoorhe is due back m London
s or y. Meanwhile, installation ot a
treatment plants consideration.
Norseman (W.A.) crushed 31,055 short
tons of 9dwt. (head value) ore, cyanided
14,480 tons and recovered 10,455 fine
ounces gold, worth £91,526 (Aust.), for
the six months to Anril 10 Plant and
me six monins to April 3U. Plant and
development, etc., expenditure ran away
with £69,824, and divs. absorbed £30,000.
At balance day, cash and bullion totted
fAn ion fin non
? u Vi, £ lO,OOO WaS 011 depOSlt
With the W.A. Government on account
of a water scheme, and creditors were
owed £7915. Ore reserves have been
maintained round 71,000 tons ; there are
untreated tailings of 31,212 tons going
3.Bdwt. and 90,000 tons averaging I.4dwt.
Most nrnmidno rpppnt fipwlnnmpnt „ 7Q< -,
Most promising recent development was
the unearthing of a reef at 800 ft. similar
in width and values to those in higher
levels.
* * * *
M L Calanchini Westralian Under
11 V, ' V n ’ wes ( raliaa Unaer-
becretary tor Mines, has issued another
illuminating annual report. It figures the
value of the State’s mineral output for
lens m 17/1 r<7 „ +
1935 at £3,1/4,266, up £57,500. Gold at
£2,756,984 represents 86.86 p.c. of the
total. Coal production was valued at
£318,013; arsenic, £54,132; silver,
f 1» lon . rooAn £ i nmo
£12,687 , tin, £8829 ; felspar, £7928 ;
gypsum, £6888; tantalite, £4780. Gold
mining dividends at £1,090,156 show an
increase of £214,431, raising total pay-
ments to the end of 1935 to £3l 838 792
ments to me ena or tyoc to
Number ot men employed increased by
2185, and the area held under gold-
mining leases by 11,851 acres. In addi-
f n ____ _
tlOn, prospecting Claims cover in the
aggregate a big area, and there are a
number of large reservations, most of
which are Kpino oetiuelv nrocnpcterl
wmen are being actively prospected.
Assistance to mineowners and the indus-
try generally under the Mining Develop-
ment Act totalled £44,791.
* # * *
Ore reserves of 45,000 tons —36,400
tons sulphides and 8600 tons oxides—are
mentioned in the annual report of the
Raub Australian Co., working a long
lode in the F.M.S., and which for the
year to March 31 treated 53,358 tons for
22,9380 z. bullion; average gold recovery
was 8.07dwt., as against 9.o7dwt. in 1935.
Profit was £37,770, written after debit-
ing revenue with £8590 spent on recon-
struction and £39,410 on prospecting and
development. The co.’s tin areas were
not worked. Three 4d. divs. took
£40,000. Excluding £53,595 of invest-
ments, floating assets were £14,365 in
excess of liabilities when the books
closed. A prospecting and development
programme to cost about £15,400 is in
hand for- the nine months to Feb. next,
and an early increase in the royalty pay-
able on gold sold in the Straits Settle-
ments is expected. There was a collapse
in the scrip last year following an an-
nouncement that ore reserves were “ex-
hausted.” There has since been re-
covery to 17s. 6d.
*-« * *
Guinea Gold, interested in N.G. and
Papuan shows aggregating 10,000 acres —
it gave options, subsequently exercised,
over its Bulolo and Koranga properties
to Placer Development and Ellyon Gold-
fields Corp. respectively—showed, for the
year to Feb. 29, a profit of £38,110 (up
£16,620), realised almost entirely from
the co.’s holding in Bulolo Gold Dredg-
ing. Cost of exploring and testing
Papuan properties, £33,739, was written
off reserves. Over the twelvemonth
slump in gold-scrip market prices re-
duced the value of the investment port-
folio on that basis by £44,021 to £527,785.
Shareholders are to be asked to author-
ise the reservation of the block holding
of Bulolo shares (approx. 70,000) as an
invested fund of the co.
* * * ♦
Melbourne bears have been given a
fright by the strong market for Central
Nell Gwynne, Bendigo. The shares were
worth 3s. in February ; they sold as high
as 345. last week. Forward dealings are
still going on. Another shilling div. is
talked of.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.8.E.: Have no particulars of co. —it is a
private concern. If you can get a balance
sheet or prospectus we may be able to pass
an opinion A.C.C. (Plympton, S.A.): (1)
No later balance sheet to hand. (2) If policy
has been in force several years, yes, unless satis-
factory paid-up contract can be obtained. (3)
Don’t know; you could find out by application
to the office. (4) Will review as soon as
balance sheet is obtained... .V.M.: Wiluna,
20 p.c. (6 p.c.); North Kalgurli, about 75 p.c.
(7 p.c.); Mt. Morgan, 60 p.c. (10 p.c.); Lake
View and Star 50 p.c. (8.8 p.c.) G.H.A.:
(1) See B. 19/2/’36, p. 39. (2) Doubtful; your
non-acceptance of offer may have amounted to
consent to conversion scheme. It is a matter
for a solicitor. (3) No regular market. (4) A
speculation, with the testing period drawing
closer... .5.P.8.: You seem to hold enough
already. It is a spec X.: (1) and (2) Can’t
trace. (3) Yes... .A.R.A.S.; Sell if market
shows any improvement... .H.J.R.: The Eng-
lish gold standard represented the obligation
on the Bank of England to exchange a
sovereign for a£l note on demand. Under the
gold standard gold was worth £4 4s. lid. per
fine ounce and £3 17s. KHd. per standard
ounce. To-day the English pound note fetches
only about three-fifths of a golden sovereign,
and an ounce of fine gold is worth about seven
English pound notes W.8.H.: The co. is
being wound up by the N.S.W. Public Trustee.
... .HJ.D.: No recent review.


%/%
LU
UJ
Ol
i
0£
X
vD
I
PS
Pm
io
(4)
Sh
7865 E-


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: The missus has just
been telling off Dillinger for bringing in
the paper from the mailbox in a shock-
ing condition, on account of a fight on
the way. Dillinger was the result of a
mesalliance between a lady of the cattle-
persuading race and a visiting bull-
terrier of lofty lineage. Though a born
desperado, Dillinger is no fool, and I’m
sure he never meant that the enemy
should bleed on the paper. As I reminded
the missus, Dillinger would never half-
scalp one of us when bathing, under the
delusion that he was attempting a rescue,
as did a boneheaded retriever recently
in N.S.W, Nor would he fetch a couple
of heifers along as Old Joe’s idiotic
animal did when Joe had just told the
trooper that his lot consisted entirely of
bullocks, or fool about with firearms as
so many dogs have been doing lately
with disastrous results to their owners.
Thumps of a heavy tail on the floor con-
firmed ray opinion when I read the fore-
going over to Dillinger.
* * n:
“Saddle-flap”: Young Dave from the
back-country was on his first visit to the
Zoo. Lagging behind his family he was
eyeing, in wonderment, the tigers, the
lions, everything. Suddenly he shouted:
“’Struth, dad, ’ave yer got yer gun?
There’s a blasted emu here.”
% s}c ;J: :|c
“Dungeness”: Zane Grey has for
years been searching for the perfect axe.
He discovered it at a chopping contest
at the Sydney Show, and told its lucky
possessor that it was impossible to buy an
axe like it in the whole United States.
Inquiry as to what country had had the
honor to produce so remarkable a tool
elicited the fact from a grinning Aussie
axeman that it had been made in Cincin-
nati, U.S.
* * * *
“Silen”: It isn’t often that one mis-
hap yields a double accident, as did the
loose ring off a maul at Killarney (Q.).
As the splitter raised the implement to
drive in a wedge, the ring flew off,
splintering the bone in a boy’s toe —the
lad was standing some yards away. Later
in the day a man was riding past the
scene of the mishap, chasing some cattle,
when the horse’s hoof flipped the same
ring into the air, giving his prad a nasty
knock on the nose. The animal bolted,
throwing the rider and breaking his wrist.
* * * *
“B. Farmer”; Unkind judgment should
not be too hastily passed on persons
claiming to have met cows with blue
tongues —the color may be due to the
application of the homely bluebag.
Droughty conditions in S.Q. coastal dis-
tricts have brought about a great scarcity
of flowering plants, and the busy bee,
being unable to obtain pollen, has been
forced to seek substitutes. The most
attractive of these appear to be bran and
pollard ; hence raids on the feeding boxes
of stall-fed dairy cattle. Naturally the 1
intrusion of Strawberry’s curling tongue
into the feed box is hotly resented. In a
short time cows are seen dejectedly mov-
ing around in great pain, their tongues
swollen and protruding and literally pep-
pered with bee stings.
“Packbag”:/ Mum returned from the
town and announced that she’d bought
Herbert a pony to ride to school on.
“So quiet, too, and only four pounds.
Nothing wrong with it either, except for
two birthmark lumps on its front knees.”
* -t * *
“St. Clair”: One of Maoriland’s most
popular citizens since Pelorus Jack has
been 'foully done to death in Welling-
ton Zoo —I refer to Joey, the sea-lion.
Joey came ashore on a Dunedin beach
some time ago and took up residence
there. He soon became so tame that
children rode on his back, and he got
into the habit of entering houses and
asking for food. Rebuffs made him bad-
tempered, and after he had chased a lot
of Dunedin citizens out of a public bar
one day because the landlord refused
to serve him or something he was
shifted to Wellington. There he drew
capacity houses until he was found
poisoned in his pond one morning.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The oldest living things
in the world to-day are the macrozamia
palms, occurring in small patches in
various parts of Australia, but especially
numerous at Tambourine Mountain
(S.Q.). They are being rapidly destroyed,
and will probably be extinct before long.
"Got a pain in the back? No wonder when you’re using a four-inch
nail to hold your pants up.”
One vandal felled the oldest Tambourine
specimen a few weeks ago; in the
opinion of Professor Chamberlain, the
world authority on the genus, it was at
least 20,000 years old. A 20ft. plant has
required about 15,000 years to develop,
and a specimen three feet high may be
3000 years old, or more. Even a mere
baby like that was over 2000 when Nor-
man William put it across our Anglo-
Saxon ancestors at Hastings. Captain
Cook was a person of yesterday. Its
parent was probably browsed upon by
marsupials standing 20ft. high, and half-
ton wombats burrowed at its roots. And
any fool can kill it in two minutes with
an axe,
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: “First Blue’s” post-
and-rail artist (B. 22/4/’36) had a
counterpart in “Paintbrush Tommy,”
whose advertising efforts were a feature
of the suburban landscape back in early
Melbourne days. Tommy finished up in
an Old Men’s Home, where he proved
that the true craftsman will always rise
superior to his environment. Although
deprived of his beloved paint-pot and
brush, he would contrive a makeshift
brush from a hair broom or anything
else that came to his hand—on one
occasion he filched several inches of
his room-mate’s whiskers—and, using
plum jam and water instead of
paint, he would decorate the walls
of the Home with legends extoll-
ing the virtues of So-an’-so’s biscuits
or somebody’s painkiller. Every week
one of his former employers would call
with a buggy and pair to take him out
so that he could watch the hoardings and
keep in touch with the latest develop-
ments of his art.
* * * *
■•Ped O'M.": “Maw,” said old Harry,
y won t find no roos m my d.s rtck ;
cleaned em al up. I dld-every blasted
one. See that there break in the scrub?
He pointed to a gap between two gums
a few feet apart. “Well, I used to sur-
nrise the mob and ’end ’em for that
prise, me mo D ana eaa cm tor mat.
They d all try to get through at once,
and four of ’em alwiz got stuck each
time. I’d gallop up, whip out me knife,
, 1-* ,l ■ ■ S ~ , .
and slit their throats in one lash. Yatrs,
I did ’ave a bit o’ trouble with the last
three. Ad to shoot the cows.”
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: To look at me you
wouldn’t believe that I once drove the
record load of wheat from Combanning
station to Temora (N.S.W.). And I’ve
trundled some hefty loads of wool on big
table-tops, too. Never had an accident,
if you don’t mind my modesty ; therefore
it always saddens me to see a load of
wool tumbling off a lorry in Sydney. Yet
I witness the spectacle about once a week.
It must be because they don’t know how
to load the bales. On the smooth roads
bales shake loose and fall, and the job of
getting them back gives work to half-a-
dozen men, blocks the traffic and pro-
vides a happy interlude for children. The
townies might guy us when they come
to the bush, but when we see city
wool lorries it’s our turn to laugh. Only,
in my case, I come very close to tears,
because in two minutes I could tell them
how to avoid the slips, and they don’t
know what a genius is going to waste in
their midst.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: Regan was bewailing the
death of an old family retainer. “Poor
old Mat,” he moaned, “the best farm-
hand I iver had. Daylight would niver
find him in his bed, the bit of tucker he
ate wouldn’t feed a sparrer, and the few
bob a week I gave him he’d put straight
into the children’s money-box. A man
wouldn’t find the likes of him again in
a lifetime.”
* * * *
“Quareef”: A crow, but not crows,
will dine on a carcass poisoned with
arsenic or .strychnine. When Kelly gets
his fill he flies to a near-by tree, obvi-
ously poison-drunk. He sways, staggers
and flops about the branches, eventu-
ally falling to earth. His contortions
continue till violent vomiting ejects the
offending meal. Toppling over he be-
comes an apparent corpse. Presently ani-
mation returns: the corpse shakes itself,
ruefully gets its bearings and staggers off
to tell its cobbers. The message spreads
amazingly fast —and never a crow goes
near that carcass again. For message-
transmission speed records the crow has
a woman or a telephone beaten hollow.
* * * *
“Finn”: A few city beliefs about the
country are also due for cremation:
1. It costs almost nothing to live in the
country.
2. Country people welcome unheralded,
uninvited city week-end visitors.
3. Farm folk delight to load returning
city visiters with gifts of dairy, garden and
orchard produce.
4. The law of trespass doesn't run m
the country.
5. Any old clothes are good enough lor
country wear.
* * * *
“Pakeha”: The theory that a lost
tribe of Maoris inhabits the unexplored
Sounds regions appears to be gaining wide
support. Even the most enthusiastic
stalking parties have never penetrated
many of these parts. The lost tribe is
held to be the Ngatimamoe, defeated by
the Ngaitahu tribe two centuries ago.
The question will only be settled when an
expedition goes through the “perpendi-
cular” country with a fine-tooth comb.
* * * *
“Centre”: Can the red-back spider
leave his badge at home and camouflage
as something harmless? If not, what’s
the strength of one I met minus the
usual scarlet danger-signal? The same
black, same shape, same web and
the usual family cradle full of eggs ; also
he was camped behind a stack of old
roofing-iron, a typical home for a red-
back. Possibly he’s a throw-back, but
I’ve seen nothing like him before. Can
any arachnida expert enlighten me?
* * *
“Marlinspike”: There is no need to
buy expensive lures for the tailor who
now harry the mi-
grating • mullet. A
stout 4/0 hook on
18 inches or so of
thin wire—best got
from a strand of
light steel rope —
with a swivel con-
nection to a No. 5
or so gut line, forms
the basis of gear.
Leave an inch of
wire free at the eye
of the hook, cut a
three-inch strip of
mullet belly, push
the point through
one end and the
wire through the
other, with the grain
of the flesh running
towards the hook
point. Or, if you’ve
no mullet, whip on
two or three white
feathers, with the
hook between their
tips. Or cut a fish
shape out of a bit of
bright petrol - tin,
and put the wire end
through a hole at
the head end. Tow
any of these at a
moderate speed be-
hind a pulling-boat or motor-launch and
you’ll maybe better this morning’s catch
on rooster feathers—63 fish, 831 b. in
weight, in 2\ hours. No record, but nice,
quick fishing.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A popular illusion that
eels are the mortal enemies of trout was
dispelled by the Government conservator
at Rotorua (M.L.). He traced an eel
migration from the sea up-river. The
elvers when they left the sea were similar
in size to whitebait, and trout found in
these abundant food. In the stomach
of one were 49 elvers, and in another case
an eel 1 Sin. long had gone into the diges-
tive works of a trout. Apparently the
depredations of the adult eels on trout
are compensated for by the food value
of the elvers in their migration upstream.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: The old man was rather
imaginative. He had gone fishing, with
several large grasshoppers for bait. In a
couple of hours mum was surprised to
see him returning in great haste and
agitation. “Send for the doctor,” he
gasped, “quick—a man’s heart doesn't
make noises like this unless he’s going to
die.” The sounds emanating from beneath
his coat were certainly alarming, but
mum was unperturbed. Calmly she
reached inside to his shirt pocket, took
out a matchbox and released a strong,
vigorously kicking grasshopper.
HAND SHEARS.
When stations shore their sheep by hand
Men didn’t look for lots of gear;
No ringer cluttered up his stand
With pulleys, weights and gadgets queer.
A water pot, oil, turkey stone
And shears of reputable brand
Were all that any man need - own
When stations shore their sheep by hand.
No matter if the pace were hot
And time too fugitive to waste,
A woolshed seemed a peaceful spot
Where work went on in measured haste.
No twirling shaft and whirling wheels
Were needed to increase the speed
When half a score were on the heels
Of those who battled for the lead.
About the grindstones after tea
Men yarned of places where they’d been,
Of Wellshot, Dunlop, Wingadee,
And scores of stations in between.
It mattered little where they went
When labor was in brisk demand,
And all they earned was quickly spent
When stations shore their sheep by hand.
“The good old days”? Why, men have sighed
For ages o’er this empty phrase
That Time, ashamed, once coined to hide
The memories of bad old days.
Long years ago I met old men,
From Carandotta to the Bland,
Who used the saying even then,
When stations shore their sheep by hand.
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


“Old-timer”: “Binder Twine,” a long,
slab-sided, gawky youth who led a rather
lonely and nomadic life about the mid-
Mallee districts of Victoria, working for
this one or that for a few bob a week,
saved enough to have a fling at the
New Year’s Day sports at Hopetoun. An
alarm clock on a hoop-la stand fascinated
him ; he went broke trying to ring it. Dis-
consolate, he hung round, watching that
clock. There came a drunk who bought
rings, threw them wildly, and alleged
some crooked work by the owner of the
hoop-la joint. The drunk charged the
joint, and he and its owner fought wildly
as the stand and its contents collapsed
about them. An ecstatic crowd cheered
them on. Dust, gewgaws, debris .and
curses filled the air. Then the crowd
gaped as out of the mess emerged “8.T.”
That simple child of the bush had been
stood upon, torn, rolled in the dust, and
violently battered, but his smile of grati-
fication was’ a thing to remember as he
headed for the scrub with a shining alarm
clock clasped to his breast. “Have y’
still got y’ clock, Binder Twine?” became
a stock greeting to him in the years that
followed. It was the last thing he heard
as they carried him in from the first
battle of Bullecourt—the last thing he
ever heard.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Some time ago an Abo-
liar dubbed as fiction the oft-repeated
statement that the giant clam is cap-
able of closing with a snap that would
imprison a man’s foot. In North Westralia
lately I applied tests. Lying on the
reefs at low water, mouths wide open,
these molluscs, each shell big enough to
use for baby’s bath, corrugated and sharp
as a rat-trap, needed only a touch with
a stick or even a sudden swish in the
water to make them shut as though pro-
pelled by a steel spring. Which, when
one considers that they probably form
table d’hote for the reef-prowling
octopus, whose grip possibly would be
powerful enough to hold a large clam
open, is only what might be expected.
"Well toss for the Wench, Skullbones. The loser takes ’er!”
“Laetitia”: Bushmen’s eyesight? Wire-
grass pointed to a steer grazing some .600
yards away across the claypan on a day
blue with heat haze. Spinifex Sam
peered with screwed-up eyes for half a
minute, then admitted in crestfallen
accents: “Sorry, boss, I can’t make out
the flamin’ brand—some bloomin’ flies
keep walkin’ acrorss it.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Yaloora”: I’ve often wondered why
blokes waste ammunition on ducks.
Quite a simple trap is to lurk in a tree
and grab them by the legs as they fly
over. Sneaking into a lagoon, swimming
under water, pulling them down by
the feet and drowning them is
another efficacious method 1
advocate. I have used rabbit-
traps successfully, but trapped
ducks make a bit too much
noise. Lassoing from ambush
on the bank of a lake is one of
the easiest methods, though the
arm gets tired through drag-
ging in ten pairs at a time. I
used a strong birdlime of my
own manufacture once, the
chief ingredient being Austra-
lian glue. The trouble with
that was that I had to saw the
birds off the branches. Being
an ex-war pilot, I invented an
air-net and box-kite arrange-
ment. The net was rolled up
and packed, parachute fashion,
into the kite, which was con-
trolled by strong cords. When
a pack of ducks flew under-
neath the kite I just jerked a
cord and the net fell out and
enveloped the birds. Hauling
down the “bag” was the hard-
est part of that plan. The
easiest method of all, though,
is the wheat-soaked-in-whisky
trap. Ducks that gobble up
that bait are pushovers.
“Larrakeah”: I see nothing very
unusual in the capture of a prawn sport-
ing nippers at the end of its long, jointed
arms (B. 6/ 5 / ’36). Practically every
trawl brought up from Sydney Harbor
contains dozens of this species, Leander
A ustralis. which is beautifully marked
with reddish-brown stripes and flecks of
dark red on the long pincer-bearing
arms. Another nameless fellow, fre-
quently caught, has one large claw
entirely out of proportion to his rather
fragile body, the weight of the weapon
securely anchoring him when out of the
water. .
t- * * t-
“De Bee”: People who fight like
tigers to get rail service often wish
afterwards that the line went through
anyone’s property but theirs. A rail-
way through a property may have
its advantages to the farmer, but it
takes a strip two chains wide, some-
times of his best land, and perhaps a
large lump for a siding, for which no
compensation is paid. The train kills his
valuable stock, while the line may also
cut portion of his property off from the
water, and in any case makes further
subdivision difficult. 1 have one N.S.W.
property, 36 miles from rail, served by
motor-lorries. The wool is gone as soon
as it is out of the press. Another place
I have is bisected diagonally by a rail-
way, with a siding at the boundary. I
sometimes wait a week until a train runs
or until there is enough wool available
to load a truck.
“Bungle”: Here on the N.S.W. North
Coast Poly and Roger still lower spread-
ing horns as they get down to the yoke.
My neighbor has a good pair of plough-
horses, but, with a paspalum patch to
break up for farming, his neighbor is on
the job with two of his “workers” behind
the plough. Incidentally, although there’s
usually nothing very stirring about a
“What famly ’ave 'ee got, Trevisick?”
“None ’t all, cap’n; 1 can t bear childern .”
string of lethargic bullocks, two sleek,
black polers I saw at work set the old
bloodstream pulsing. Unable to negoti-
ate an awkward gateway, the bullocky
unspanned all but the polers. For five
tense minutes the two little beauties,
bellies to the ground, hung on before
shifting the load an inch. Then in she
rolled ; and (although the S.P.C.A. might
have had something different to say)
“Mon, but it was grand.”
“Tom Willie”: Bullock teams have
not passed away altogether. In N.S.W.
timber country they are on the increase,
but the teamster whose “eloquence used
to flow in the bullock-driving language
of the days of long ago” has apparently
gone for ever. No more is the teamster
bearded and bronzed, wearing moleskin
trousers, flannel and a knotted red hand-
kerchief around his neck. To-day he is
a sedate, gentlemanly youth,' minus shirt
and wearing the trousers belonging to his
old Sunday suit. He speaks in the culti-
vated voice of a high-school boy and uses
moral suasion to get his bullocks out of
a bog. The whip he carries wouldn t
bluff a poddy calf, and the family cat
wouldn’t even notice his highest flights
of language. The cause of his degenera-
tion is a mystery even to bush curates.
* * *
“F.0.M.”: During a storm at Belmont
(N.S.W.) an old, dead grey gum which
had been the habitation of a nest of
white-ants was struck by lightning. Now
there’s not an ant in sight. Are all light-
ning-struck trees free from the pests?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Duckbill”; Hoofing it with my dog
through the torrid parts of western
Queensland I lost my bearings.
Parched, we stumbled across
an old well. Sandy sides and
rotten timber made it impos-
sible to go down, so I
fashioned a rope of belt and
strips cut from pants, shirt
and hat. With nothing fill-
able to hold water, having
dumped my worn-out shoes
miles back, I was stonkered,
when Pongo took a hand.
Rolling on his back he whim-
pered as he does when about
to be put on the chain. I
savvied: he wanted to be tied
up. Hooking the belt to his
collar I lowered him down,
gave him a swim, then hauled
him up and had a good drink
from his shaggy coat. I repeated this
until Pongo got diver’s cramp, and had
to be hauled up in stages.
“W. McCamooweal”: “Jobber” queries
the presence of heifers in the mob of
bullocks in “The Bridle Track” (B.
6/5/’36). There are not so many
mixed mobs leaving the Gulf and
N.Q. nowadays, but years ago they
were common. Several properties in
those parts sent their store cattle to their
own fattening stations nearer southern
markets* and in many cases heifers culled
for speying were included in the mobs
to make up numbers or for other reasons.
I have had my share of the mixed mobs,
but now that Fm getting long in the
tooth the other fellow can have the
heifers. Mine’s bullock straight.
“Dingo”: Mum started to worry
about the old gum near the storeroom,
and gave the men no peace about it.
Her fears were connected with a possible
gale. Eventually the two boys took to
the veteran with their Kellys, and cut a
beautiful scarf and belly, all set for a
downhill felling. When she swayed, all
hands made a break uphill for the veran-
dah. Suddenly the tree came the same
way, taking the storeroom with it and
just missing the axemen. Mum came
running out from the kitchen. “What
happened?” she gasped. “Puff of wind
at the last minute,” panted one of the
boys. “There, what did I always tell you
about a gale?” crowed mum in triumph.
* * * *
“W.A.A.C.”: In our S.A. mallee dis-
trict, a startled cultivator team bolted.
One of the horses jumped on top of the
machine ; she landed with her legs
through the frame and tynes, her
body jambed against the inside of
the back , wheel, ' the lever being
hooked through her collar. The driver
unfastened the collar, then unscrewed
the cap and nut off the back wheel,
pulling it free with the help of
one of the other horses. This dropped
the mare on the ground, where she soon
kicked herself free of any other encum-
brances, none the worse, except for the
loss of a few inches of skin.
;|c * * *
“Bunny”: The lion and the lamb
might lie down together in fable, but I’ve
struck a weirder snooze partnership in
fact. Up on the Barkly Tableland, at
the junction of the Rankine and
Georgina Rivers, there are some caves
out from Old Austral homestead. 1 was
poking about down one of ’em, a couple
of feet from its mouth, and on a ledge
which seemed to have been made pur-
posely as a sun verandah was a rock
python over 12ft. long, by no means
stuffed to satiation, and pretty wide
awake. Sitting within a foot of the
ophidian's nose, apparently at ease, with
his long ears flopping, and occasionally
dabbing his front paws over his face, was
a buck rabbit. Bunny hopped it lively as
soon as he saw me. The python wasn’t
so fast off the mark. I had a look at
his tucker-bag after I had skinned him,
but cottontail hadn’t been on his menu.
. * * * *
“Dave”: We were camped in the
mulga scrub on a big W.Q. run hand-
feeding jumbucks. It was 118 in the
bag, and “Jock,” not long out from
Glesca, swore that he’d like to be in hell
to get a cool-off. But the boss, who
revelled in the heat, was unperturbed.
“This ain’t hot, son,” he said ; “wait till
your soles curl up an’ peel off your feet
before you growl.” When we reached
camp Jock threw himself down on the
ground and glanced up at the meat bag
hanging on the scrub. As he watched
the drip, drip of the brine from it he
said: “Weel, ye can’t pool ma leg. A
thocht ye said it wasna’ hot. Why, even
yon bluidy meat’s sweatin’.”
THE WESTERN WAYS.
In fancy I vision the West again,
The yellow river swirling by,
The mirage far out on the edge of the plain
And the fleckless blue of the western sky;
The breathless dawn and the burning noon,
The shimmering heat-waves spreading far,
The deep, cool shade near the still lagoon,
The blinding sun where the sandhills are;
The gorgeous sunsets at eventide,
The cloudlets of amethyst, crimson, gold.
The whirr of wings by the Darling tide
And the wonder of western nights unrolled;
The silk, soft dusk and the wide-eyed night,
The drooping myalls and lone belars,
The homing swans in their stately flight,
The magic and glory of western stars!
Here, in the streets of Sydney Town,
1 dream of the West and the life that’s free,
And I vision the river rolling down
Past Bourke to the Murray and on to the
sea!
N.S.W.
WALTER D. WHITE.


PERMANENT PASTURES
The best results can only be
assured by using
THE BEST
P. 8.9 FERTILIZER
Because ft ensures not only a quick
start to the grass, but also a suffi-
ciency of Plant Food throughout the
whole year, being a mixture of
quick-acting (Superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia) and slow-
acting (Blood and Bone) Manures.
Write for Pamphlets, Post Free.
BATON, BURNS & CO.,
Fertilizer Experts,
52 King Street, Sydney.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
HI
; ''A,.
prti/i ii|7|ii7i
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
. O ' ie
e- Son Ltd.
MePHERSONS Ply. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide, Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Handling Dead Wool.
“Bungaree”: Opportune regulations to
govern the handling of dead wool in
N.S.W. city stores have just come into
force. Special precautions must be taken
by employers to keep the air free of dust,
buildings must be regularly disinfected,
employees are to be supplied with gloves,
etc., and supplies of antiseptics are to be
always available. Dead wool must not
be stored or worked near other wool.
While the same conditions do not pre-
vail in the country, great care should be
observed in the gathering and handling
of dead wool from paddock to pack.
Where there is enough to justify sys-
tematic gathering, an old dray, spring
cart or sulky with floor boards replaced
by strong wire-netting is the best means
of collecting. Men should wear basil
gloves and carry a garden fork to pick
up and shake the wool. Some people
pick up the entire carcass as it lies —
skeleton, desiccated interior, sticks and
grass—shovel it into a chaffbag and con-
sign it to market.
Wool has to be a very good price, how-
ever, to pay for the freight and handling
of rubbish which should never have left
the paddock. However, fork it all into
the cart if you wish, but make a number
of dumps—one in each paddock or
wherever wool is most plentiful—and
have it handled there.
Any clean bright wool that has been
plucked from a recently dead sheep
should be branded “PLK” and marketed
by itself. If the sheep have died within
three or four months, the wool should
not show sufficient variation in length
to warrant two main lines, but, if other-
wise, keep the threequarters-to-full wool
apart.
At the dumps, separate the wool from
bones and rubbish, shaking it well to get
rid of as much dirt and dust as possible.
Then either (1) market the dead wool
as it is, unsorted, or (2) send it to a re-
packer to have it prepared for market.
Or prepare it yourself.
If it has been decided to prepare it on
the station, the handling should be done
at the dumps—but on no account in the
shearing-shed. Never mix merino and
crossbred wool. Shake the wool and work
it into heaps. The number of these will
depend on the range of wool at hand, but
should not exceed (1) the best wool of
good length, free of adhering skin pieces
(AAA Dead) ; (2) good short wool (AA
Dead); (3)' short, dirty matted wool
(Dead) ; (4) skin pieces free of shanks,
bones, etc. (SKN PCS).
Bag each lot and mark the bags dis-
tinctly. Rake all bones and rubbish into
a heap, throw a few logs on and burn it.
If the wool is to be marketed in bags,
pack them tightly, stencil with owner’s
brand, contents and number of bag.
However, if they are to be baled, don’t
bring them to the shearing-shed until
ready for pressing. Second-hand packs
may be used, but they should be strong.
When pressing is finished, sweep all
dust and rubbish out of press- and wool-
room and burn it clear of the shed.
Give the press- and woolroom a thorough
cleansing with strong disinfectant. Keep
a tin of mixed disinfectant handy at every
stage of the process —picking up the wool
in the paddock, sorting and pressing.
Don’t attempt to handle dead wool if
you have any uncovered sores or cuts,
and don’t neglect a cut or scratch sus-
tained while working. Clean it thoroughly
and apply iodine at once —the tetanus
germ is a quick worker. Finally, if there
is the slightest suspicion that the sheep
have died of anthrax, burn every vestige
of the carcasses without attempting to
touch them.
Wool Draft.
“Agrarian”: Victoria intends to legis-
late against draft, but the chances are
that action by one State will be found
unworkable.
One pound deducted from every cwt.
may appear negligible, but 31b. at 15d.
means 3s. 9d. per bale.
To date the total elimination of this
buyers’ perquisite has proved impossible,
and, with humility, I beg to suggest an
alternative —that one pound be allowed
on every bale to buyers, that one be
“ Billy's got the measles, an mum's down with 'flu. Cripes, Dais., don't
you go getlin crook!"
placed in trust for the use of the C.S.I.R.
(two-thirds) and the remainder be allo-
cated for advertising.
Apart from the “draft” a simpler and
juster means of raising money to aug-
ment the meagre £55,000 now in hand
for national research suggests itself. Let
the Federal Government reduce its land
tax and place at the disposal of the
C.S.I.R. the amount of that reduction.
More Fat Lambs.
“Granova”: Fat-lamb growers in
even-rainfall districts should note the
results of an experiment made by B. J.
Stocks, of Linden Hills, near Harden,
N.S.W.
In December, 1934, Stocks mated 120
Romney cross-merino ewes with South-
down rams. The drop of 108 per cent
of lambs was sold for an average price
of 20s. sd. when from 10 to 12 weeks
old.
The ewes were mated again in August
and September, 1935, and dropped 100
per cent of lambs in January, 1936.
Seventy lambs from this drop have been
sold for 235., and the balance are ready
to truck.
The ewes will be mated again in May,
and will lamb in September, the lambs
being ready for sale in December. This
will be the third drop of lambs marketed
from the same ewes in two years.
Stocks says this practice would not be
successful unless supported by fodder
conservation and pasture improvement.
The Nasal Bot.
“Sheepo": Science needs a better
method of combating nasal botfly than
exists at present. The fly deposits its
lame adjacent to the nostrils, from
whence the maggot-like grubs find their
way into the nasal sinuses, and eventually
bore into the inaccessible interior to
mature.
Originally whitish in color, the grubs
assume a dark-brown hue on inclining
towards maturity, growing to half an
inch long. Ejected when affected sheep
snort or sneeze, the grubs pupate in the
ground.
Snorting, head-shaking and attempts
to strike the nostrils with the feet are all
signs of nasal-grub irritation. So are
nasal discharge and rushing about in a
scared manner for no apparent reason.
In small lots tar-smearing of the nose
will tend to keep sheep immune, but the
problem yet to be solved is how to give
large flocks immunity. Squirting kero-
sene or blowing smoke up the nostrils
has been successful in dislodging the
grubs in England. But there flocks are
small.
It will be a bad thing for Australia if
bot becomes universal.
Milking Technique.
“Hortus”: A cow produces half the
weight of milk from the bloodstream
during the milking process. The milk
production within the cow goes on prac-
tically all day. But you can’t pick and
choose the times for milking at random.
Careful adherence to a regular scheme
makes all the difference in both the
amount of milk obtained and that of
butter-fat. Sometimes . as much as
40 p.c.
There is no getting away from the fact
that two 12-hour periods give the best
result. It’s all a matter of pressure within
the udder. The pressure of 11b. per sq.
inch in the bag will eventually stop all
secretion of milk.
In a heavy milker, at the end of a 12-
hour period, maximum pressure is nearly
reached. Hence any extension of the
period means less butter-fat.
A secret of success is rapid milking.
Even the most completely milked cow re-
tains about 20 p.c. of her milk.
The percentage when a cow is milked
slowly increases at times to even 40 p.c.
A cow needs stimulation to make it “let
down.’’
Faster hand movements do the trick
fairly well. Roughness is not needed—
use clean, sharp and yet firmly gentle
strokes.
A cow follows a regular routine. Some-
times you hear “She’s a bad milker ; she
doesn’t let her milk down well.” It isn t
the cow’s fault. Generally it’s the fault
of the man at the job.
If you have been used to feeding a
cow in the stall and you fail to carry
this out one day, you will notice a poor
letting-down. If the routine suddenly
stops, the cow senses it. She associates
certain happenings with the act of letting
her milk down. Sometimes the sight or
smell of food on entering a stall is
enough to set the muscles of the udder
contracting. The sight of a calf does
the trick at other times. The cow has
no mechanism in the udder other than
the uncontrolled teat duct or nipple. She
must have the required amount of stimu-
lus or excitement to make it act. Habit
as regards hours and technique in teat-
pulling means everything.
Coast Disease.
“Agamemnon”: Recent observations
of the effect of minute quantities of vari-
ous minerals on stock diseases give in-
terest to the work of Murnane and Mar-
ston on “coast disease.”
It is hoped that their investigations will
enable profitable use of great stretches in
Vic., S.A., and perhaps W.A.
Stock —mainly sheep—grazed on cal-
careous coastal soils sometimes develop
a mysterious sickness characterised by
unthriftiness and fatigue, watery dis-
charges from the eyes and anaemia.
Wool becomes lighter, finer and
tender, and finally death occurs. The
skin grows fragile and the wool is
plucked easily.
Immediate recovery takes
place when the stock are re-
moved to ironstone country,
although iron given in licks
to sheep suffering from coast
disease on limestone soils has
no effect. Phosphate defi-
ciency, although marked on
calcareous soils, is also ex-
treme on the adjacent iron-
stone country.
It has been found that the
disease is due to the absence of traces of
cobalt in the soil, and the addition of this
element as a lick has resulted in com-
plete prevention of the disease.
Further work is being carried out to
find the most suitable form and dosage.
Consider Your Team.
“Horsey”: If drivers would consider
their teams a little more and themselves
a little less, there would be fewer sore
shoulders, chafed sides and sweat
boils.
The shoulders of every working horse
should be well brushed before harness-
ing. Soft-skinned horses should either
be worked with leathered chains or else
army drag-ropes, which reduce chafing
to a minimum.
If a horse shows the slightest signs of
soreness he should be washed with plenty
of cold water. The collar should be in-
spected regularly for hard spots or caked
hairs and sweat-soaked mud. If an old
sock is filled with horsehair tightly and
one placed on the collar above and below
the sore spot, the weight of the collar
won’t touch it, and the horse can s till
be worked. The hames keep these in
place.
A bad practice is to work the horses
too late into the evening. If a horse
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


ONE MORE CHANCE
to
AocuSul
Actual size
of each
volume, Sin.
high, 5 Jin.
wide, Ifin.
t hick. The
library is
so compre-
hensive that
it has 16
pages o f
index t o
t Ire stories
and authors.
There’s endless
enjoyment for
every member
of the family
in this splen-
d i d home
library.
mSmSp.
P SB?
iHI
SMB
a
?,v m
immm
m
izm.
m
U
m
B
I K
1
- v ;
m
■ ■
m
H
: m
ii
■
jSS
Hi
m
■i
■
w%
ml
i
m
mm
: mm
mssss
■
S 3
mm
i
,; ; i
ns
111
■
• ■;■
■
m
m
m
m
“n
HI
i
xUkfi
m
mm
m
u
m
S H
n
n
■
m
:'P-’
&
m
tv
The distinguished British and American authors and critics
who selected the short stories in this wonderful work are:
Sir William Robertson Nicoll, Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Sir
Edmund Gosse, Mr. Clement K. Shorter, Professor Saintsbury,
Sir Frederick Wedmore, Mr. Thomas Seccombe, Sir J. A.
Hammerton, Mr. RicTard Le Gallienne, Professor Brandon
Matthews, Professor W. P. Trent, Professor Carl Van Doren.
HERE ARE SOME OF THE AUTHORS.
w
John Galsworthy.
1 tut lie/..
iH m
m*
i-.eo Tolstoy.
Honore JJal/.af
EARLY STORIES
Giovanni Boccaccio
Sir Thomas Malory
Herodotus
Tao Chien, etc., etc.
ITALIAN STORIES
Matteo Bandello
Ortensio Lando
Enrico Cast el miovo
Salvatore Farina
Luigi Capuana, etc.
FRENCH AND
BELGIAN STORIES
Anatole France
Paul Scarron
Pierre Loti
Jules Lemaitre
Guy de Maupassant
etc., etc.
ENGLISH STORIES
Charles Reade
Anthony Trollope
John Ruskin
Wilkie Collins
Mark Rutherford
George Manville Fenn
William Morris
Thomas Hardy
Ouida
Stanley Weyman
SCOTTISH
STORIES
Tobias Smollett
Sir Walter Scott
“Christopher North”
Andrew Lang'
S. R. Crockett
RUSSIAN STORIES
Count Leo N. Tolstoy
Ivan S. Turgeniev
Maxim Gorky
etc., etc.
IRISH AND OVER-
SEAS STORIES
Sir Richard Steele
Laurence Sterne
Oliver Goldsmith
Oscar Wilde
etc., etc.
AMERICAN
STORIES
Washington Irving
Nathaniel Hawthorne
Edgar Allan Poe
Harriet Beecher Stowe
O. Henry, etc., etc.
OED GERMAN
STORIES
Biothers Grimm
J. C. F. von Schiller
Ludwig' Tieck
Theodor W. Storm
E. T. W. Hoffman
etc., etc.
SPANISH AND
PORTIT.UESE
STORIES
Juan Manuel
Juan Valera
Carmen de Burgos
AJnecnte Blascp Ibanez
etc., etc.
SCANDINAVIAN
AND DITCH
STORIES
Frederika Bremer
Jens Peter Jacobsen
Hans Christian Andersen
Aron Goldschmidt
Nicholas Beets
Conrad van der Liede
etc., etc.
WAR STORIES
Edgar Wallace
W. B. Maxwell
Hamilton Fyfe
Max Pemberton
John Buchan
“Sapper”
Alfred Noyes
Alice Hegan Rice
AUSTRALIA!! GREATEST
BOOK
BARGAIN
ter uovOt iumt
<X
THE 1000 BEST
SHORT STORIES
OF ALL COUNTRIES
AND ALL TIMES
For a first payment of only 5/- you can enjoy immediate
possession of this unique home library. It brings you the finest
writings of 600 gifted authors in many lands. 1000 short
stories . . . selected by an international board of literary critics.
Nearly 8000 pages of brilliant fiction! Furious adventure
. . . romance and dangerous intrigue . . . mystery and realism
. . . humor ... all are here. There is a complete volume, too,
of war stories . . . told with the most dramatic intensity. The
“Masterpiece Library” unrolls a panorama of world literature
in its most enthralling form . . . the short story.
ROMANCE OF ALL NATIONS
Explore, with these books, the storied wonderlands of Africa,
Asia and Europe. Journey on into romantic Arabia,
glamorous Persia, strange mysterious countries of China and the
Far East. Gay tales of France . . . passionate romances of
Italy, Spain and Portugal . . . drama of Russia . . . humor and
thrill of America, and clean-cut adventure in the pages of
English, Scotch and Irish writers ... no matter what your
choice, there’s good reading here. Modern authors are well
represented ... as the brief list alongside shows.
READ WHAT BUYERS SAY
“Although I expected something good, the books
exceeded my highest expectation.”
“I consider it one of the best investments one could go
in for.”
“Would like you to keep me posted if you are publishing
anything further in this line.”
“I am delighted with the books and their make-up.”
“Am proud to own such a magnificent set of beautiful
volumes.”
These are extracts from letters received from all parts of the
Commonwealth and New Zealand.
The full series of 10 double volumes, each in “de luxe”
binding of rich blue Rexine, is yours for 5/- down and 1 1
monthly payments amounting to less than 4d. per day. There’s
a frontispiece in every book. In England this presentation
series is valued at £10/10/-. We offer it for £5/5/- cash . . .
£5/15/- by easy monthly payments. Fill in and send the form
below for immediate delivery of the full 10 volumes.
ORDER FORM
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the “MASTERPIECE LIBRARY OF SHORT STORIES,”
10 volumes. I enclose the first instalment of 5/-, and agree to make 11 further
monthly payments of 10/-. The price for cash within 30 days is £5/5/-.
NAME . .OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS ..
Freight is extra, but in no case will it exceed 4/6.
Bulletin, 20/5/’36.


j
FOR THE MAN
WHO CARES.
PRICE,
39 6.
► w
AYE YOU TRIED
bbe y sen: B
POLISH YET?
ONLY (id. PER TIN.
For those who prefer a better shoe, this smart and
easy-fitting Black Velour Calf is outstanding value.
It can be worn on all occasions, and the enjoyment
you get in wearing it lasts from the first to the
final day’s service. Whether you buy for pride
or performance, make sure you always buy Abbey
Shoes.
Stocked in full and half sizes, and narrow, medium
and wide finings.
WHITE TOR NEW CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
WA31.
THE
Still
keeps
Working
when
others
have
Stopped
(DIAMOND TORCH REFILLS
hove the same PS qualities
of Dependability, Consistency
and Increased Service.
)
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD.
119 Howlce St., West Melb., C. 3. FI 175
ĵ
1. The P 5 hos a greater ability
to deliver efficient current down
to a low voltage stage.
2. There is no overnight collapse
with Ps—it will continue to "carry
on" after others have stopped.
3. The very gradual decline of P 5 will
give ample warning before new Ps's ore
required.
4. Thus P 5 guarantees increased service,
absolute dependability and unvarying con-
sistency.
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
j
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
SCHUTE
IBEEILeCS;
j am
¥
sc
SS
!
Sf
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St'
’Phone: BWI2IB
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
cannbt dry and remains wet all night, he
loses condition rapidly in spite of good
feeding.
A team in constant work should have
at least hours’ midday rest, and their
collars should be removed.
When feeding, don’t give more than
horses will eat at a meal. All teamsters
should know how much an animal re-
quires. Stale food is no better for horses
than for humans. Feed slobbery-
mouthed horses alone. They spoil the
food for other horses and prevent them
eating. This is one of the easiest methods
of preventing particular feeders from
losing condition. It is in your own in-
terests to keep your horses in perfect
order.
Remember that a cranky driver has a
cranky team. Horses assimilate human
temper quickly.
Only speak to the horses when wishing
them to stop or start, with an occasional
reminder to go faster, etc. Nothing irri-
tates horses more than a noisy driver
nor causes more trouble and accidents.
Kindness and quietness are the secret
of success with all animals, especially the
horse.
Erosion Cures.
“K.Mc.”: Of the five causes of surface
erosion in the interior three—overstock-
ing, timber destruction and rabbits —are
controllable. Droughts and some fires
are not preventive.
Overstocking is most evident on small
properties where owners stock to the hilt
in order to balance on the right side. In
N.S.W. the Western Lands Board should
be empowered to enforce spelling of
lands in sections for not less than three
years—Kidman allowed some of his
stations five years to revive. This would
necessitate increasing the areas of small-
holders.
The cutting of trees for fencing and
building purposes and wholesale lopping
and felling for stock feed should be cur-
tailed. Cypress pine should be grown
wherever possible. It is good timber for
both fencing and building, and is repel-
lent to white-ants. Steel fencing-posts
are the cheapest in the long run, and
these the B.H.P. people might be per-
suaded to manufacture at Broken Hill to
reduce freight charges from the coast.
Rabbits can be controlled, but will the
result pay the cost? If 10,000,000 lost
sheep of western N.S.W. can be restored
rabbit-control should pay.
A few years back pessimists averred
that the cottontails could never be coped
with on rocky mountain country carry-
ing one sheep to three or four acres.
Scores of thousands of acres of such land
have been freed and the carrying capacity
increased to as much as a sheep per acre.
Control can be effected on the plains with
the netted enclosures four times larger
than are needed on the hills, and on this
basis rabbit-destruction should pay on
level country now carrying one sheep to
10 or 12 acres.
Where periodically the pest is confined
to certain spots, such as sand ridges or
creek banks, by netting in these areas
eradication should be comparatively in-
expensive.
In any case, more subdivisions are
needed so that paddock spelling can be
carried out.
Mixing Pasture Seeds with Super.
“Granova”; Tests carried out by the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department to
ascertain the effect of mixing pasture
seeds with fertilisers some time before
sowing gave the following results:
Perennial Rye Grass.
Germination.
Unmixed 69 p.c.
Mixed with super, for seven days 22 „
Mixed with super, for 16 days .. 3 „
Lucerne.
Germination.
Unmixed 92 p.c.
Mixed with super, for six days .. , 21 „
The germination of lucerne seed begins
to be affected after 36 hours’ contact with
super.
White clover is ‘not affected, nor will
mixing with sulphate of ammonia do any
damage.
Always mix the seed with super, just
before sowing.
Rule-of-thumb Fallowing
“Stump Jump”: “Nabawa” (B. 6/5/’36)
is talking sense when he says that success
depends as much on the man as on the
methods. Fallowing isn’t a textbook job.
Operations may need to be totally dis-
similar on farms only 10 miles apart,
There is too widespread an inclination
to stick to prescribed routine as gospel.
A lot of old ideas need pretty serious
revision.
Nitrogen is the main plant food stored
away by fallowing, whether the fallow
be long or short. Its encouragement and
storage are the only factors that need
consideration.
Soil cannot acquire nitrogen from the
air, which is its sole source, unless there
are the proper bacteria in it. These need
two things, a feeding medium such as
rotting straw or weeds, and occasional
cultivations to keep the soil loose. Mois-
ture is, of course, necessary also, as bac-
teria travel about and multiply only when
it is present.
But moisture storage on a fallow is not
the sole benefit it was once thought to
be. It merely helps to provide a medium
for nitrogen-fixing bacteria to work in. If
the nitrogen is already there, almost no
benefit accrues from moisture stored in
fallow.
And it should be remembered that
nitrogen and phosphoric acid must be
together if good results are to be attained.
A Home-made Delver.
“Pick”: Materials needed are 1 lift,
and 6ift. hardwood planks, 12in. x 2in. ;
two Sin. x I+in. boards, 4ft. long ; angle
iron, band iron, a 6ft. drag chain, a
bottle link and some bolts.
The longer plank forms the runner or
furrow piece ; the shorter is the wing.
Mitre them so that at its end the wing
stands out 4ft. from the furrow plank.
Secure them with countersunk bolts, and
brace them with band iron flanged at the
ends.
Bolt the boards to the band iron cen-
trally to form a riding stage for the
driver. Because the delver is reversible,
braces and stage should be set mid-
way between the top and bottom of the
planks.
Shoe the furrow piece and wing on all
their edges with angle iron (a bit of
old motor-chassis, bedstead or culti-
vator will do).
Cap the point of the delver with an-
other angle-iron strip to prevent dam-
age from stumps or stones.
After pulling the drag-chain through
the bottle link, bolt it to the planks,
2ft. from the point of the runner and
18in. along the wing. The loose bottle
link enables alterations to the draught.
Draw the delver with a convenient
horse or bullock team. Being reversible,
it can be worked both ways, which is a
decided advantage. In tough country,
loosen up the land ahead of the delver
with a road plough, but in easy stretches
it will do good work on its own.
Hints for the Farm.
“L.S.”; For ringworm in cattle, cut
away the hair round the infection and
wash every two days with iodine tincture.
“Lata”: A good drenching horn can
be made by cutting a hole in the toe of
an old shoe. It cannot harm the animal,
and it is easy to get the whole dose in
with it. It is particularly useful for pigs.
“lute”: A good use for old manure
and cement bags usually thrown away is
to peg them over persistent patches of
couch and other hardy, useless grass. In
a few weeks, if put down tightly, they
will smother the growth to death.
“R.”: A good soft putty can be made
with 201 b. whiting, 1 gill salad oil, |gr.
raw linseed oil and 21b. whitelead. Knead
thoroughly and, if too thick, render down
with raw linseed oil. Keep covered in
water in a tin.
“Zedo”: One of the most useful imple-
ments in a sheep paddock is a pair of
small pincers for removing grass seeds
from tender places like the eyes. And
an oilcan is easy to carry. Fill it with
2gr. zinc sulphate, Igr. opium tincture
and 4oz. (half a glass) of water. A few
drops shot into an inflamed eye will
remove film and clear up infection. You
need a cap to prevent leakage.
“Bimbo”: A cow should be spelled
for six to eight weeks before she is due
to freshen, and during this period should
be on good feed which will build up her
strength. More fodder has to be con-
served where the cows are well fed when
dry, and it may seem expensive to feed
a cow when she is not producing, but
the cost will be repaid in the end many
times.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
V
Hi -'Jim,;
Hi', Hi
IH MPf
m
v.m
m
win
■
I
ii
Ml
m
m
: L
mm
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 f 4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘Even though my husband is hopelessly in-
solvent, I still love him,’ says a woman writer.”
Faithful unto debt.
"What's Basil going to end it all for this time? Didn't
the ‘ Weekly' accept his poem?"
"Yes, and sent him their Purple Certificate, and a
Cumnuts membership card."
“ ‘I answered the matrimonial advertisement
she inserted,’ said petitioner, ‘but she did not
want a husband —only someone she could
wipe her shoes on.’ ”
View mat.
*4*
“When arrested at his home, accused asked
the police to allow him to change his boots.”
— “D.T.”
Wanted to get his run-in shoes on,
evidently.
T F T F
“She was no more than 18, and wore Eton-
cropped hair, slacks and a short blouse, and
held a cigarette between her lips.”— “Sun.”
Ah, well, girls will be boys!
F *l* -I- *l*
‘Modern cinemas are cool even on the
hottest day,’ says an item.”
That’s because so many films leave the
patrons cold.
*2*
‘Keep your locks well oiled,’ says a house-
hold hint.”
We’re afraid'our hair is too thin for
such vanities.
•J*
“ ‘Modern dance music was taken from the
African savages,’ says a musician.”
Well, we’re certainly paying a big price
for the crime.
F F F F
” What is meant by a weak noun?’ asks a
correspondent.”
Lemonade.
“Tinned foods damaged by fire.” —News item.
And not only tinned foods, as many a
married man knows.
*4*
“ ‘ls there any medical endorsement for the
belief that a stocking tied round the face at
night will induce sleep?’ asks a correspondent.
Yes —any good sock on the jaw will
have this effect.
F F F F
“Perrier fined for careless driving in Scot-
land . ” —‘ ‘A rgus.”
Slicing?
F F F F
Fireside reflections are often inspired
by old flames.
F F F F
Pity the poor husband who hasn’t a
leg to stand on when the time comes for
him to put his foot down.
F F F F
“The strikers hurled bricks at the volunteers
who had manned the ship.” —News item.
Stone the crews!
F F F F
“ ‘Long hair suits some men,’ says a writer.”
Except when their wives discover a
few strands of it on the coat shoulder.
»|!« JL* t^«
When Dickens created “The Artful
Dodger” could he have been forecasting
the super-pedestrian?
•I*
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
I. — Preliminaries.
This major sport should hold a particu-
lar appeal for short-tempered men.
Don’t begin lessons in an outer suburb
where roads are deserted —get her used
to traffic right away.
Start her off by
backing out of the
garage.
That will teach
her carefulness from
the jump. Let hex-
take the wheel, while
you sit beside her so
as to be handy to
the handbrake.
After switching on
the ignition and re-
leasing the brake,
carefully explain, as
a preliminary, the
changing of the
gears. Give a prac-
tical demonstration,
pushing the clutch
out yourself and
putting the selector
first in reverse, next
in first and so on.
When, just as you
have got it in first
gear, the missus
presses her foot on
the “funny little
button” with a
“What’s this gadget
for?” and you leap
suddenly forward,
don’t bother to
reach for the hand-
brake. The end wall
of the garage will
already have pulled
you up, anyway,
before you could get to it. You will now
be struck by:
(1) The windscreen.
(2) Reflections.
(a) Unshatterable glass is a damned
nuisance, as the hen-egg lump on the
skull testifies.
(.6) Shatterable glass is a damned nuis-
ance, and if you sneeze with the “collar”
of jagged glass around your neck you're
a monte for a punctured jugular.
But remember that, as this is but the
commencement of your real trials, an
impatient blustering here will spoil every-
thing.
Now get out and take a screw at the
front bumper-bar. Say, two quid for
straightening and renickelling, and an-
other ten bob for realignment of front
wheels, where the bar buckled against
them. It wouldn’t be worth coming on
the insurance co. for these, as you’d do
your next year’s rebate in. Moreover,
considering that it would have cost four
or five guineas to have your wife taught,
you will still be saving something.
S. W. K.
F F * F
“A slab of marble under great pressure will
bend like stiff tar.”— ltem.
So that under great pressure we might
just as well use stiff tar as marble.
Growing Mushrooms.
My wife used to suffer from the de-
lusion that mushrooms could be grown
at home. So every year I would make
up a heap of straw and manure in which
she would inter a cake of an earthy sub-
stance for which the nurseryman had the
nerve to charge five bob.
Nothing ever happened, except that we ,
grew the finest crops of stinging nettles
you ever saw.
This season my wife appeared to have
recovered; at any
rate, she did not
mention my making
up the bed again.
Instead she sug-
gested that I should
take it down to her
mother’s place for
mother to use as
garden mulch. I did
so without com-
plaint, even thank-
fully, although it
took 11 trips with
the wheelbarrow. It
seemed to me that
the stinging nettles
were being given a
far more appropri-
ate home.
That was three
weeks ago. There
are no signs of
stinging nettles in
rny mother-in-law’s
garden. I don’t
think they can grow
there now. I doubt
if any form of vege-
table growth would
be strong enough to
poke its way through
...“and then, just between Mrs.
Blabb's appendicitis and Miss
Blurb's floatin' kidney, she
trumped me ace!"
that dense mass of mushrooms which
covers every scrap of the ground.
Bert the Carpenter.
4- *l* F F
How to Make a Pair of Snowshoes.
Here is a hint for the lucky boy who
is fortunate enough to be spending a
holiday in the snow district this season.
Snowshoes are expensive, but if you
follow these instructions carefully you’ll
be able to make a handy pair for your-
self at no cost at all.
Get two tennis racquets. These are
easily procured. Your brother will prob-
ably have several put away for the
winter. He won’t miss them till next
summer. Choose the newest ones, with
the strongest gut. Chop or saw off the
handles, and you have the base of your
shoes ready-made.
You still, of course, need something to
put your feet in, unless you prefer merely
to clamp the shoes on to your feet.
A pair of mother’s or sister’s winter
shoes will be just the thing.
Bore half a dozen holes in each sole
and bind them to the racquets with stout
twine or fencing wire. Your snowshoes
are then complete. Simple, isn’t it? No
trouble and no expense.
What a thrill you’ll get the first time
you wear them. And won’t the family
be pleased! ( Free patterns and diagrams
on application.)
Becks.
F F *l* *l*
The Devil and the Deep.
The moment for the decision had come.
She must decide whether she would risk
misery and discomfort or whether she
would make herself foolish in the eyes
of all. On the one hand she shrank from
the possible torture she might have to
endure. On the other she thought she
could never face the unspoken criticism
of society—the whisperings and the
sneers. Dash it all, would she wear her
winter costume and roast? Or stick to
her summer frock and be caught in the
coming storm?
See.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XVI. —A Lucky Escape.
The tourist who manages to avoid the
cold of Ballarat by dint of hot-water
bottles, woollen underwear, Balaklava
caps and frequent journeys from pub to
pie-stall, and to survive the competi-
tions by the use of tact and cotton-wool,
will in all probability find himself shortly
afterwards in Melbourne.
1 had great difficulty, however, in tear-
ing the Whipsnoodles away from Bal-
larat. The competi-
tions were in full
swing, and Miss
Birdseed, who as -a
small child had won
a prize for reciting
a poem which com-
menced “The waking
braves dashed by*”
entered for every-
thing except the
duets and section
fours.
Sir Percy Whip-
snoo d 1 e (whose
family has always
stood for Culchah
with a capital Cul.)
said he was going to
see the week out If
it killed him, so that
settled it as far as
Mrs. Loofah was
concerned, and that
settled it as far as
Mr. Loofah was
concerned.
Claude Counter-
pane, misled by the
barman, turned up
the first night under
the mistaken im-
pression that the affair was a kind of
smoke social, and, on finding out the
truth, delivered himself of an extempore
description of his informant’s character
and antecedents.
It was a truly brilliant effort, but no
one was more surprised than Claude
when, after the applause had died down,
he was presented with a lilac certificate
for the best unset character sketch.
The position was rather delicate, and
we would probably have been there still
had I not perjured myself by telling them
that the venue of the competitions had
been changed to Melbourne. They
couldn’t get on the train quick enough.
Strange to say, as soon as we got clear
of Ballarat they forgot all about the
competitions, so my little ruse was quite
successful.
And so to Melbourne.
It is practically impossible to make an
impressive entry into Melbourne.
Whether one arrives by rail, air or sea
back doors and backyards are the first
sights that greet the eye.
It’s a pity, as first impressions count a
lot, and in consequence only those who
. have managed to get themselves born
in the city can ever really see the beauty
of Melbourne.
But by way of compensation most of
the native-born have their sense of the
beautiful very highly developed indeed
—so much so that they take aesthetic
delight not only in the city’s fine streets
and buildings, and its beautiful parks and
gardens, but also in the humbler beauty
of Footscray, Yarraville and Fisher-
man’s Bend.
“Footscray,” they’ll tell you, “has a
charm of its own that you don’t find
in Sydney or Adelaide. An intangible
something ; quaint, subtle and old world.”
“Intangible!” snorted Claude Counter-
pane when an enthusiastic Footscraien
mentioned it. “Why, you could cut it
with a knife!”
“Why .should you wish to do that?”
asked the other icily.
But Claude had gone out to it.
Jasby.
Acute Disappointment.
This morning, when I heard the post-
man’s whistle.
It sounded like the strident knell of
doom.
And, having read your curtly-phrased
epistle,
I’m plunged in deep and melancholic
gloom.
I never dreamed that you’d be so hard-
hearted,
And—though 1 know it’s woman’s
privilege
To change her mind — still, darling, ere
we parted.
We made a pact and you’ve not kept
your pledge.
When I was more cast down I can’t
remember;
Life seems so empty, frightening and
bleak —
You promised you’d return, sweet, in
September
And now you write, “I’m coming
home next week.”
P. O. M. C.


New Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:-
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
niuvrewe-D
9y
?ucvf
THE PEOPLE IN THE STORY.
Joyce Manson, a doctor, young and
attractive, keen on studying tropical
diseases.
Murdoch, Resident Commissioner—
“although that doesn’t mean as much as
it sounds” —of the Fly River district to
which Joyce is appointed.
Butts, “a taciturn Australian” help-
ing Murdoch do his job of seeing “that
a bunch of natives go ahead and clear
some land they’ve leased.”
They are the only whiles in Murdoch’s
little clearing.
AND THE HAPPENINGS SO FAR.
Joyce finds the atmosphere of the jungle
intruding itself into her life, her thoughts,
absorbing her~not merely the back-
ground to her work she expected it to be,
disappointing. Murdoch warns her to
go away before she becomes a part of it;
before they both find themselves growing
towards each other, impelled by loneli-
ness and a desire to escape from thoughts
which won’t be bounded by the wall of
trees about the clearing.
Chapter II. —( Continued .)
IT was time he made a start with his letters. Curse
them! Why couldn’t they be satisfied with a couple
of lines to say that everything was good up here,
except that So-and-so was dead and that a case of
tobacco had been missing out of the last consign-
ment? But that wouldn’t do. There were clerks down
below who had to be kept busy, and sundry officials
who sat in large and impressive offices liked to have
lengthy reports sent to them from every quarter of
the territory. They drew their details down many
long miles of river and across jungle country where
airplanes flew like strange new birds ; they digested
them into concise reports of their own which went
aboard steamers bound for Sydney—and believed they
had their fingers on the pulse of the dark land that
was Papua. -
Murdoch removed his feet from the table and
dipped a pen into the ink-bottle.
“Sir,” he began, “1 have to report”
But what did he have to report? He wasn’t going
to tell them everything that happened out'here. Not
he! But perhaps they would be interested in the
arrest of that Kanqka. They, always liked a good
arrest; it suggested authority upheld, and the strength-
ening of prestige. A murder was always acceptable,
too ; and perhaps he should tell them about poor
Barker. It would help them to realise the importance
and significance of their calling in a country where
danger lurked even in daylight. Yes; he would tell
them about Barker and about the arrest of that poor
devil of a Kanaka who had gone berserk with a cane-
knife. That would do for what were called the “big”
things ; and afterwards he could fill a page or two
with store details. He would have to go outside and
shout for the boys entrusted with store jobs ; and then
there would be the usual excitement and swearing
and the long struggle with lying tongues and faulty
memories.
It was just, as well that Joyce would be out of
the place to-day. She liked him to think she could
stand a good deal of male roughness, but he knew
quite well that she flinched from it. And why not?
Grey eyes like hers might be able to look on ugly
wounds without showing disgust or fear ; but there
was something gentle and womanly in them, or he
knew nothing about human beings. There was some-
thing in those eyes that had come through a great
deal already, and would go through a great deal more
—through anything. Something unquenchable and
belonging to her soul.
This wouldn’t do! He had to keep his thoughts
on store details; on tobacco and rolls of print—the
brighter the better. The last lot might have pleased
shoppers in Sydney, but it was no use to black women
living in a jungle that produced everything in vivid
colors, from butterflies to birds of paradise. And
pernaps he had better say something about Joyce.
Her own report had been written, and lay before him
m its bulky envelope, addressed in a good, clear hand.
It was like her to be well up with her work.
He threw down his pen and walked to a window
that looked towards the jetty. There was the river,
sweeping down to the distant Gulf. And beyond it
was the jungle, the land of untouchable and unknow-
able things. You could get a few yards through it,
and then the creepers had you. Trees and under-
growth, shadows and cavernous places and flashes of
color through sunlight. Over yonder was Weary
Mountain; He found himself using the name Joyce
had given it, although he had told her once—rather
crossly—that it sounded too much like the name of
one of these sticky, slow-wailing modern songs. But
there it stood, the great scarred shoulder rising
above jungle, not unlike the shoulder of a woman
with her dress slipping over one arm. He had not
thought of that simile until Joyce came.
There was not much of New Guinea to be seen
through this window ; but he had a power of vision
nourished through years of loving supervision that
could take him in thought far beyond the mountain
and the forest. He could see great lakes lying in
impenetrable country like rare jewels hidden in the
safety-vaults of Nature. He could see other rivers
where gold could be picked from the gravel spits and
which would sometimes carry the prospector down
to safety and sometimes deliver him to lurking wild
men along their banks. He could see mist over moun-
tains and lonely trails swept by rain.
Also to be seen were places where the magic-men
of tribes performed their witcheries, and he knew
something of rites that taunted the skies and attempted
to bridle the wind and saddle the tempest. He knew
the methods of good haters: the tormenting of effigies
to bring disease and death to enemies, the movement
of dark forces of mind that men could call up and
project towards other men, so that they wrestled in
darkness with unknown powers and were slowly
destroyed.
There were many things to be seen as he stood
at his window ; and in a strange, personal way all
these things were his. For years he had gone among
them, watching and guiding and protecting. This
was a great savage land which did not care for many
white men but cherished its own with a maternal
fierceness. It could hate as no other land in the world
could hate. New Guinea was the untamed gipsy
woman of all countries. She could spill blood ; she
could hide away murderers. And sometimes, too, she
could love; and when ■ she loved she was prodigal
of beauty and passion, tireless in loyalty and demand-
ing loyalty in return. She would give all and take all
—and nothing less.
But this was not helping him with his reports,
and presently he returned to the table and began to
write. He grew quieter as page followed page. It
was not so bad, after all, and he knew that he had
expected more than the usual difficulty. This was
because he had made up his mind to send in a com-
plaint about Joyce. What was the use of a woman
out here? Undoubtedly she knew her work, and could
do all for a sick native that any white doctor could
do —which wasn’t much. But she was a nuisance.
Every time she went through the jungle she needed
an escort. Of course there had been men doctors in
the past who needed just as much protection, but he
needn’t labor that point. It would be better to use
another'line. His pen moved along a clean sheet
of paper.
“I come with great reluctance to a personal matter
that, I think, needs immediate attention.”
That should catch their eye. Officials were as
bad as women over “personal” matters.
“Doctor Manson has been in this' district for six
months now, and in that time has filled her place
competently. But I feel it is my duty to inform you
that, in spite of her efficiency, I do not regard her
as a suitable or safe influence in the district. I have
carefully tested the native attitude towards her, and
am afraid she is not able to use the authority so
necessary in all our dealings with the Kanakas. There
is a tendency among the natives”— —
He ripped the paper into pieces and allowed them
to flutter to the floor.
“I’m a damned hypocrite,” he thought. “Writing
stuff like that!”
He clapped his sun helmet on his head and
went out of the office, leaving the report unfinished.
It, was very hot outside, but he was glad to be free
from the dust and the walls and the staring pigeon-
holes. He gulped humid air and stood for a minute
looking at the river and the small crowd of men on
the jetty where the whaleboat was moored. A new
and convulsive activity followed his appearance, but
he made no move towards the river. He couldn’t
trust himself down there at this moment. Those
Kanakas jabbered all the time, and he was in need
of silence.
He turned abruptly and strode across the clearing
towards a track that led into the jungle ; and because
he knew that this was no way out of his problem,
and that he should have stayed behind to finish his
job, he walked more quickly than usual, with a .for-
ward, thrustful set of his head and a bunching of
heavy shoulders that scared an oncoming native from
the path like a frightened ribbit. Murdoch resisted
an impulse to curse the shadow melting into under-
- growth. It was no use giving way to bad temper -;
if he continued in that vein he would begin to suspect
physical disorders: warnings from his “superfluous
tissue,” no doubt. In that case, he would have to
consult Joyce
There she was again! This was the sort of thing
he had known would happen. Perhaps he should have
finished his report. And it would not be treachery.
It would be as good for the girl as for himself. He
knew quite well that a mere stubbornness kept her
here.
He was already some distance from the settle-
ment, and around him was a screen of trees and. under-
growth. A single path of sunshine lay before him,
and all else was green and shadowed. There was
a great activity of birds, and he liked to see the flash
of their plumage and to hear singers from the higher
branches. His shoulders relaxed, and he walked more
slowly. He was feeling better already, although still
annoyed at the looseness of control that had driven
him into the bush. If Joyce were to stay here he
would have to manage things better than this.
Why not wait quietly and allow things to take
their course? Joyce was stubborn, but she remained
a woman and had her limits of endurance. If he
became troublesome to her it would be impossible
for her to stay in the clearing. There might be a
flare-up between them, and then she would go.
He quickened his stride again, cursing himself
deeply and sombrely. In considering this possibility
he was turning all thought and feeling towards a
single incident—the “flare-up” that loomed somewhere
among the days to come. He could not stop thinking
of it and of the part he would play. Things would
be said, and if the night were too strongly in his
blood and she looked too fresh and cool he might be
tempted to put his hands on her.
There was a turning in the trail. The trees now
grew closer together ? their branches meeting overhead
in a conspiracy against the sun, so that all the sun-
light to be seen from the path was a mere vein creep-
ing here and there along the green. Only at the far
end was brightness, where sunlight filled a glade. And
into this distant radiance there came a white figure.
Murdoch watched it pass into the gloom of the trail
and then set forward to the meeting.
It might be curiously fitting that he should have
to meet Joyce at this moment, but he was not alto-
gether in the right mood for it. He was still too
near his own thoughts, his half-plans against her;
and now that he saw her drawing nearer all ideas fell
apart and faded, and in their place rose the color
and strength of this new impression of her; a woman
in white coming through the jungle to meet him.
They were still a hundred yards apart, and he
could watch her frankly and note every movement of
her body as she walked: the way she held her head
and the free stride that had appealed to him from the
first —a little too long for most women, perhaps, but
admirably suited to Joyce. She was tall, but in this
place she looked no taller than she should be. There
was also with her an air of belonging which stirred
and troubled him.
He knew quite well that she didn’t belong. This
was not her place, and he could not understand why
she .looked as if the jungle trail were hers by right,
why she walked with the smooth strength of forest
creatures unused to cages, and why that ancient trail
accepted her so easily and would, not make her
whiteness an alien note against the green.
They were nearly together now.
“What are you doing here?” demanded Mur-
doch, stopping in front of her.
“If you please, I’m returning home.”
“I thought I told you not to come this way on
your own?”
“Perhaps you did. But 1 got through my work
more quickly than I had expected, and Butts was
busy. So I came on alone. After all, it isn’t far, and
you’ve told me yourself that these few miles near
your village are as safe as any part of Papua.”
“That isn’t saying much.”
“Besides,” she went on, “I know you don’t like
Butts to be wasting his time with me. It’s nicer for
you if I can do without an escort.”
He thought darkly that she had sensed his dis-
approval of her escorts, and was determined, no doubt,
to do without one as often as possible. Women had
a devilish way of getting on to one’s thoughts and
cutting away objections before they were clearly
formed.
.“What.would you do if you ran into trouble?”
She. pulled aside her white jacket and showed a
■ small holster at her belt.
.“I-know it looks dramatic, but it’s only a little
one.”
; Murdoch grunted away his desire to laugh.
“What use would that be to you? If you saw
a painted face among the bushes you wouldn’t give
your pistol a thought.”
“I’m not so sure.”
She took the revolver from its holster and let
it lie in the palm of her hand. It was a small, glitter-
ing thing with an ivory butt. Murdoch sniffed at it.


“There’s not much in this country you could kill
with a thing like that! ”
She handled it suggestively.
“I wasn’t thinking of wild pigs and alligators
when I bought it; and I know for a fact that it will
kill a man at quite a long range.”
He took it from her for a critical examination.
“Six chambers. You couldn’t be accurate for
more than a few feet with a barrel like that. Any-
way, you’re not likely to meet head-hunters in these
parts ; and you won’t be going across the river if I
have anything to do with it.”
“I wasn’t thinking of head-hunters.”
He looked up quickly and found her eyes level
and disconcerting. The pistol was returned to its
owner.
“Head-hunters are the only dangerous males about
here,” he said gruffly.
“I hope so.”
He found her calmness rather maddening. But
what a grand line there was from her chin to the
collar of her blouse!
“Well,” she said presently, “if you’ve had a good
look at me I’ll be getting on my way.”
“Why use that tone to me? Anyone would think
I had been staring at you as rudely as I could.”
“Heaven forbid! But quite rudely enough. Really,
Murdoch, I sometimes wish you didn’t dislike me so
much.”
“I’ll leave you here,” he said shortly. “I’ve plenty
to do to-day. I’m going up the river to-morrow.”
His last sentence was an afterthought, but as
soon as it was spoken he knew it for an inspiration.
A shadowed look came across her face.
“You don’t mean down the river—with the whale-
boat?”
“I do not. Butts goes with the whaleboat.”
She turned away from him.
“Then I may see you for a few moments to-night.
If I don’t, good-bye and good luck! ”
He felt an unwilling admiration as he watched
her go. Even though she disliked him, she must have
come to be glad of his nearness at the clearing. Fie
knew the place, and had male strength and a grip
on the natives ; and now he had made it clear to her
that for several days she would be alone. She would
be quite safe, of course. He would see to that. But
he knew that he was condemning her to a big ordeal
for a woman. And she was game. She had let him
see no sign of an inner dismay.
A few minutes later he looked round to see if
Joyce were still in sight. She was vanishing around
the far bend, and from this distance she looked small
and lonely. Murdoch turned abruptly and began
to walk after her. She would be safe enough, but
there was always a chance of trouble along these
paths. It might be well to keep an eye on her.
11.
Murdoch headed for Weary Mountain. Although
this great shoulder of earth appeared to tower above
the clearing it was really many miles distant; he had
to travel upstream and then work through trackless
jungle for two days before he could come to the lower
slopes. All about here was a country that called for
delicate travelling. Large swamps lay between the
river and the mountain: a dismal region of too-much-
rain and overrun with the lush growths of under-
water districts.
Murdoch’s party was small, but every man was
a bushman, and they picked a careful way along the
edge of waters lying dark and still between belts of
trees that looked like the grey scenery of dreams.
They carried with them a couple of light canoes, and
more than once they launched them on strange waters
and glided through the sombre twilight that lurked
beneath high noon, over a surface as smooth as glass
—but not as clear —and under a ceiling of branches
hung about with lichens.
All around them lay a forest that moved and
creaked in water. Dim alleyways showed sometimes
between the trees where ragged and stained palms
rose out of mud and a backwater circled round into
a pool that looked like the lurking-hole of monsters.
Few birds darted and swooped through here, but
there was life of a kind. It broke the surface of the
swamp and showed circling ripples, and sometimes
an iron snout or the shape of a long body gliding
into shadows. As the heat of the day grew deeper
there were threads of mist, an exhalation from obscure
depths ; and with it came a noisome odor of mud
and decaying things.
At the end of this water journeying they came
to higher ground covered with bush. That night they
camped in a glade that had the look of a cave. Tall
trees stood around, and their fire shone against dim
recesses and into gaps in the undergrowth. A faint
wind made a moaning along the treetops.
All the next day they travelled through country
in which the jungle
showed a slow trans-
formation into
forest. The trees
straightened their
backs and stood up-
right ; the palms
were a different
breed, and showed a
gloss of sunlight;
and the scrub was
more scattered.
Vines and creepers
came to an end, as
though at last the
jungle had broken
free from bonds.
The air was sweeter.
They were now climbing steadily, and soon them
were pine-trees, growing with the proud grip of hill-
side soil and the noble stems of European countries.
After this the trees grew taller, but stood further apart
and grouped themselves along ridges and above blank
faces of clay, until at last they came to an end ; and
above them rose the bare shoulder of Weary Moun-
tain, solitary inhabitant of these upper airs.
Murdoch ordered camp to be made at the edge
of the trees, and afterwards, in the late afternoon,
climbed alone to the summit. Scattered bushes grew
among boulders, and the soil was hard. He followed a
spur to the summit, and lay down to rest in a shadow
of rock Only a few clouds were abroad this day,
and they were high up and travelling slowly. The
atmosphere was clear, and Murdoch could see a great
distance. ,
From this height the jungle seemed little more
than a darkening of the surface of earth. Trees and
undergrowth had melted together into a dark coloring
that rose into folds —with here and there the back-
bone of hills—and then fell away into vast plains.
Everywhere the jungle. It covered the plains and
the hills, and edged the far horizon in black.
Murdoch’s gaze travelled with an eagle clearness,
seeking far corners where great lakes lay dwarfed
to the dimensions of silver coins. He watched the
shadow of clouds move slowly across the dark green.
This was no country for strangers and weaklings, he
thought. It was a land of fierce growths, spreading
and thickening until neglected corners were swallowed
with incredible swiftness ; it lay there like a dusky
woman sprawled in long grass. But she was more
than a woman, for she could rise above her moods
of hate and love into something that belonged up here,
in the high places, and never went down. Perhaps
there was a part of her that was occupied with some-
thing other than growing and feeding and destroying:
a part that understood and directed. He didn’t know.
The one certainty was her loveliness. He knew her,
too. He had wandered across there to the limits of
the jungle-growth, to those lakes shining as the sun
edged between two clouds, down those rivers winding
towards the gulfs. And as he brooded over the visible
beauty he could see much that was underneath: the
things in clearings and in the dens of the jungle. They
rose up before him like the breath of earth in evening
when the sun is glowing among the trees. He knew
her quiet places and her unquiet people, the homes
of men in clearings by the rivers or deep in the bush
at the end of trails that twisted and turned like the
fears of those who do not wish to be found.
He could s£e the nepu, the sorcerers with blood-
shot eyes and carven faces and Withered haunches:
the ghost-men squatting in dim places and poring
over the leavings of better men, arranging the decease
of enemies and bad payers, pandering to the strong
and comfortable ones who would live a little longei
and were fearful of pain. These were mutterers of
spells and incantations, wreathing up through the
smoke of wood fires ; and he knew their wiles and piti-
ful shams —and their great, real powers, peeping now
and then through the mockery and grimaces and show-
ing again the face of this mother of all things, this
earth spread down thfere beneath her coverings.
He could see warriors threading their way along
the trails. They were big men with spears in their
hands, and naked bodies painted in the colors of war ;
and there was a dark fascination in the stealth of their
journeying, in the movement of hands that lifted
creepers near the river, and in the ripple of strength
along bare arms raised to strike. And at the other
end of the trails were the sisters and wives of these
men waiting for their return, and calling upon the
new moon to protect those they loved. For the pale
knife-edge was high in the sky, waiting only for the
darkness and the hours of its power upon the fortunes
of men. , .
All those things could be seen down there: a
ceaseless coming and going of men and women amt
children over small corners in the midst or silences.
There were births and deaths and the disfigurements
of strange diseases, and the pains of those who watched
their limbs swell under the blight of sorcery ; and
in their season were the dancing of young men and
women, their feasting and loving. All this went on
while the gipsy-country lay patiently. She bore with
the rain that swept so often out of these skies, with
the winds that came down from Asia and turned that
roof of trees into a sea that bent and tossed and gave
up a strange wreckage from below. She bore with
great soakings of water and with the iniquities of
men, and seemed not to care.
And as he stood there, gazing upon his country
and pondering her secrets, the sun broke away from
a small company of clouds and flooded the full dis-
tance, with light. All the far places rose glittering
and new ; a glow spread across the earth and along
the slopes of the mountain until he felt it even upon
his face. He longed to share this light more com-
pletely, to open his mind to a full illumination. For
this hour, at least, he wanted to be beyond the influ-
ence of woman, so that when he had to go down
once more to dangers and problems he would be abh
to take something more than a mere physical strength.
He waited until the sun went down in a final
splendor, and then, as the shadows rose like an exhala-
tion from the jungle, he scrambled down from thv
summit. Fires were blazing at the camp and a meal
was ready. It was good to eat and drink and to
lie afterwards and gaze into embers and fitful flame
while the Kanakas whispered around their own fire.
He drew at h;s pipe, and wondered about Joyce. She
would be all right, of course. Butts was on his way
with the whaleboat, but a reliable head-boy had been
left behind, and he was as good as a white man-
better than some of them. He would keep out of
Joyce’s way, according to instructions, and yet he
would never be very far from her, and he would see
that she came to no harm.
She would be lonely down there. The days were
not so bad, for she had her work, and could fill the
hot hours with visits to sick natives at the copra lease,
and the rest of her narrow routine. A futile business.
She would know by now that she could do nothing
for the natives without a hospital, and she would
be an old woman before anything like that grew up
in this part of the wilderness. Only a hospital could
fight the nepu, and by this time she would be growing
tired of patients who died unexpectedly and mysteri-
ously ; she would be tired of the heart-breaking efforts
to save bodies in which the spirits were no longer
interested. , _
Yes, she would be an old woman before there
was any chance of a hospital out here ; and it was
strange to think of Joyce as old. Must she lose that
smooth skin and the clearness of living light in her
eyes? Must little wrinkles gather about her mouth
and break up the smoothness of her forehead ? Would
the line of her profile have to be broken down as ner
cheeks lost their fulness and began to droop? It
seemed wrong ; but it was the way of life, and ev.-n
these splendid creatures must go the ancient way of
flesh and come in the end to decay.
He threw wood on to the fire, and was heartened
by the swift leaping of flames. Now was the time
to think of Joyce as a young woman with her head
in the air and a back as straight as an English sapling.
At this moment, perhaps, she was sitting on her veran-
dah making music with the gramophone. Many times
he had found her thus, and more than once he had
wondered if he could startle her into a betrayal of
strong feeling. But her calmness remained unshaken.
She would greet him casually and allow him to talk ;
and later she would send him away with a sense or
frustration and self-disgust, and aware, sometimes, o.
a centre of longing.
(Continued on page 50.)
More than once they launched them on strange waters and glided through the sombre twilight that lurked
beneath high noon.


FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
PRO.VI “THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St, Sydney, O/O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original Jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss, each
on acceptance.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA'S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Not ALL Punters Are Mugs:—
PICKING UP MONEY
BY
A-C-HEADLEY
4CT OOK,” said Skinny Hazhtt.
Like a tube of toothpaste Skinny
and I were being squeezed through
the gates at Moorefield. Skinny was
there just like the thin edge of a wedge
stuck in between my shoulder blades.
Eight horses had won races that after-
noon, and about eighty hadn’t. Skinny
and I had distributed our money among
the eighty. We were broke, and con-
vinced that the racing game wasn’t fair.
“Look!” he said. “The little feller
over there.”
I looked. The little feller was just
ahead of me, but beyond the fact of his
size I didn’t see anything to justify the
feeling Skinny put into his voice.
“Maybe I’m dumb,” said I. “Maybe
it’s the cut of his clothes or the polish
on his shoes, or his mother was the
seventh son of a seventh husband”
Skinny just breathed on me.
“Listen,” he said, “you ever seen Andy
Croomb?”
“I’ve been accused of a lot of things,”
said I, “but never that I shut my eyes
and hold my breath when I’ve got two
bob on something with four feet that
they call a horse. Andy Croomb—even
the sporting papers call him one of Aus-
tralia’s leading jockeys. What’s wrong
with you, anyway —he rode the winner
of the last. You
want to see a
memory expert.”
“I mean,” said
Skinny, speaking
very slow, “have
you ever seen
him close up?”
“My member-
ship of the
Jockey Club has
lapsed,” said I.
“Well,” said
Skinny, his eyes
still on the little
feller padding the
hoof up the
Jim Brett.
street, “if I didn’t know Andy Croomb
was inside I’d say that was him.”
I looked at Skinny. A hard gleam was
in his eye, and his soprano voice went
chasing itself up the rungs of Guido’s
scale, while he went on telling me that
Andy Croomb would look more like
Andy Croomb if he looked more like
this feller who looked like Andy Croomb.
From the sound of it Skinny had an
idea.
If you’ve ever put a bucket of blood
in front of a bloodhound that hasn’t had
a feed for weeks you’ll understand the
kind of wild, thirsty look that was on
Skinny’s face.
“All right,” said I, “what’s the game?”
“The game,” said Skinny, “is to turn
natural resources into coin of the
realm,” and with that he was off after the
small gent., with me tailing along behind.
“Why,” said Skinny when we caught
him up, “if it ain’t my old friend, Mr.i
Winkleheffer—come an’ ’ave a drink.”
The little feller gave Skinny a look
and me the impression that his eyes were
too small for him and his mouth was
trying to make up the difference.
“I’m afraid” he began.
“Friend of mine,” said Skinny, break-
ing in and dragging me into the fray ;
“you can call him Scut, Winky.”
The little feller looked at me as though
he was thinking of a lot of better names.
Then Skinny said again: “Come an’
’ave a drink.”
What I was wondering was how the
drinks were going -to be paid for. How-
ever, the little feller looked round in a
baffled sort of way, and then said: “I’ll
have a drink, but I’m afraid”——
But Skinny was pushing him through
the door. It was afterwards that Skinny
told me that he’d found a two-bob bit
in the lining of his coat. They talk
about honor among thieves!
“You still look like the twin brother
of Andy Croomb, Winky,” said Skinny,-
wiping his mouth with the back of his
hand. “You must be making plenty of
money out of that gag now.”
A T the sound of “money” 1 fancied 1
saw the little gentleman’s eyes light
up. Yet, apart from that and his mouth,
you’d have thought he was in the halo
stage. He had pink cheeks and a dimple.
As I’d told Skinny, I’d never seen Andy
Croomb close up, but a jockey wasn’t my
idea of something you’d want to pick
up in your arms and rock to sleep.
“Well,” said the little feller, “I’ve been
told that I fesemble Andy Croomb, but,:
apart from that, I’m afraid you’re mak-
ing a mistake. I am not Mr. Winky—
my name is Lamm.”
Skinny gave a yelp. “Not my friend,
Mr. Winkleheffer?” as though it came
to him as the greatest of surprises. “Don’t
fool me, Winky. Why, you’re Winky if
ever there was a Winky—ain’t that right,
Scut?”
“It certainly is,” said I truthfully. ‘lf
ever there was a Winky, you’re it.”
“And yet,” said Skinny, after staring
closely at the little feller, “now you men-
tion it, I can see there is a difference.”
He rubbed his fingers round his chin.
“Yes, 1 can see it now. Mr. Lamm,
you’re younger, and, if I might say so,
better looking. What do you say, Scut?”
“Well,” said I, taking a close look, “now
you mention it, you can see this gent.’s
younger—but I wouldn’t say better look-
ing. Winky, from what I’ve seen of
him, was a pretty handsome cove.”
The little feller was just standing there
looking like the name on a bad cheque.
Presently he chimes in :
Well,” he said, “I’m certainly not this
Mr. Winky-whatever-it-is you’re talking
about, but a minute ago you were say-
ing something about a gag—something at
which your friend seemed to be mak-
ing money. Might I inquire what it
was?”
M-mm, said Skinny, “I don’t think
I could do that, seeing as you’re not
Winky. You see, I used to be Winky’s
partner in the gag. It’d be disclosing a
confidence.” Then he looked kind of
reminiscent. 1 here was a lot of coin
in it.”
“Have a drink,” said the little feller.
A little later, Skinny was promising to
meet him next day, and open up on the
activities of Winky and co.
“It’s because I’ve took a liking to you,”
said Skinny.
I waited till we were in the train and
Mr. Lamm had departed before I came
at Skinny.
Listen, said I, “stop me if you’ve
heard it before—but what’s it all about?”
What we’ve got to do now,” said
Skinny, “is find a punter.”
Yeah, said I, “that does explain
everything, doesn’t it? I know what it’s
ali about now. Find the punter or hide
the slipper—it’s all the same.”
Skinny looked at me pityingly.
‘All right,” he said, “I give up. It’s
words of one syllable from now on.
Listen, you agree with me the racing
game is punk. Where are the good old
days when punters’d press fivers into
your mit, as though you’d done ’em a
personal favor for telling ’em what you
had from the milkman that serves the
girl whose friend goes with the stable-
boy’s uncle. Where are they?” He
paused for a breather. “They haven’t
gone. It’s the others that’ve gone—the
milkman that serves the whole house
that Jack built. The milkman and the
stable-boy ain’t good enough now.”
“So which?” said I.
“So this,” said Skinny. “They’re still
willing to pay for information —only it’s
got to be good. The kind of informa-
tion that comes from the jockey’s mouth
loud enough for them to hear —and we’ve
got the jockey!”
L began to see daylight.
“You mean Lamm?” said I.
“Sometimes,” said Skinny, “you make
me think you’re
nearly intelligent.”
“I’ll let the insult
slide,” said I, “but
I’d like to share a
little more of your
giant intellect.”
Skinny ashed his
cigarette.
“All right,” he
said, “we find a
punter, maybe two
or three. They’ve
all seen Andy
Croomb’s picture in
“I’ve got some news from Andy.”
the papers. They know him. Well,
then, we can produce Andy Croomb.
And what would Andy want if he was
going to give them a winner—the odds,
say, to twenty quid? It’s simple. All
we gotter do is find the punters and wait
for the real Andy to ride a winner.”
“All right,” said I, “if you can get a
punter.”
The next day it was all fixed up with
Mr. Lamm. He was willing. And
Skinny found his punter —a Jim Brett
who’d come down from back-of-beyond
to discover a good reason for going back.
Everything went sweet. We introduced
him to “Andy Croomb.” Andy showed
him pictures of himself going past the
post, with the others not near enough
to fit in. Everything in the garden was
orchids. There was a meeting at V.P. on
the Wednesday. It was a moral that
Andy’d have at least one mount.
On the Wednesday morning Skinny
was outside the real Andy Croomb’s
home. He didn’t want to make any snis-
takes. It was important to know just
what Andy was wearing in case we
bumped into him. It wasn’t long before
Andy Croomb.
Andy showed up,
wearing a grey
suit. Skinny
brought back the
information and
sent Mr. Lamm
home to change his
navy blue. Mr.
Lamm, if Andy’s
horse won, was to
meet us after the
last race and col-
lect.
Skinny and I
picked up Jim
Brett at his hotel.
He shook hands
about ten times,
and bought us
three drinks. Then
Skinny opened up
on him.
“Listen, Jim,” he
said, “I’ve got some
news from Andy. A winner. Seeing
you’re a friend of ours, he said, you
could have it for the odds to twenty
quid. He wouldn’t do it for everyone.”
“It’s a go,” said Jim, and shook hands
again.
“All right,” said Skinny, “here it is—
go solid for Andy’s first mount to-day.”
He had to say that, because he didn’t
know what mounts Andy was riding.
We had to trust to luck.
AS it happened, it was a lucky thought
of Skinny’s that had parked him outside
Andy Croomb’s bungalow that morning.
The million-to-one chance happened. We
saw Andy Croomb just as we were get-
ting ready to pay for the privilege of
pushing a turnstile. He wore the grey
suit all right. Jim wanted to go over
and shake hands.
Skinny knocked that
on the head.
“It’s against the
regulations for joc-
keys to speak to
their friends at the
course,” he said.
“That’s a nice tie
he’s got on,” said
Jim.
I’d noticed that
tie. You couldn’t be
off noticing it. It
was a tartan ar-
rangement, with
greens and reds and purples dashed
all over it. We were about thirty
yards away, but it was like a sock in the
nose. I blinked and looked at Skinny.
His face was a picture. He said some-
thing to Jim, and then took me to one
side.


Stuart Crystal, each piece an ex-
ample of exquisite design produced
by a master craftsman, cannot fail to
add charm and dignity to your home.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Stuart
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
53
sS
i
3?
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers*
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. . Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
i
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Kxtra Quality Steel, Xylo. : Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 21/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PLUM BAZOK GUARD, for gin.. 3in. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT REN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
. 7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 1407-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order for two
years' free of charge.
I
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
r
UteA
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes ?
mmm
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
2-17 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne
“Did you see it?” said he.
“Did it see me?” said I.
“Listen,” said Skinny, “you hop on
to a ’phone somewhere and break the
news to Lammy. He’ll still be at the flat.
Oil him up about the tie, and tell him to
buy its brother.”
It was some time before Mr. Lamm
answered the ’phone, but I got him at
last and gave him Skinny’s instructions.
“0.K.,” said Mr. Lamm.
To cut it short, the riders went up for
the first. There was no Andy Croomb
among them. Jim had a quid on his own
judgment, and pooled in a tenner. Mug’s
luck. It made me feel a little bitter. The
starters went up for the second ; still no
Andy Croomb. But in the third there
he was up to ride Beetle, a three-year-old
with as good a show as any of them.
Jim started to get excited.
“Ain’t this what he said,” he yelped,
“his first mount!”
“Take it easy,” said Skinny. “What’re
you gonner stick on, anyway?”
“Fifty,” said Jim, “or do you thjmk I
ought to make it more?”
“Fifty’ll do,” said Skinny ; “that’s thirty
for you and twenty for Andy.”
I lived every minute of that race. I
rode Beetle as surely as Andy Croomb
did ; and as surely as Skinny. Jim, whose
money it was, didn’t seem worried at ill.
As far as he was concerned it was just
a matter of collecting his money. But
not for me and Skinny. And were we
glad when Beetle pushed to the front as
they rounded the bend? From then on
it was no race. I was that happy I could
have cried.
Jim collected the money, and now it
was all set for the meeting with Mr.
Lamm. We were
to meet him at the
pub after the last
race. We’d got
five to one for our
money, and while
the other races
were going
on I was
busy work-
ing out
what that
came to
divided by
three.
I’d lost
all interest in the
rest of the pro-
gramme. The
money was tucked
away in Jim’s
wallet, but he’d
given Skinny and
me a fiver each to
“Compliments of Mr. Lamm.”
show how much he appreciated what
we’d done for him.
The last race came ; but even then we
didn’t get right away. Jim had a quid
on the winner and had to collect. It
wasn’t till nearly five when we got away
from the course, and right then bad luck
shoved out a straight dook. Who should
be walking straight towards us but Andy
Croomb himself! Skinny tried to shove
Jim around the other way, but it was
too late. I saw the happy look in Jim’s
eye.
“ ’Lo, Andy!.” he yelled at the top of
his voice.
Andy Croomb pulled up and stared.
You know how it is with jockeys—every-
body knows them once they’ve read their
name ih the sporting pages. That's how
it was with Andy. He looked a minute
and then grinned and nodded.
“ ’Lo,” he said.
By that time Jim was yanking at the
wallet in his pocket. Skinny’s eyes were
like a dead fish’s.
“You’re the goods, Andy,” said Jim.
“I got a little present here for you.” And
with that he started counting out the
notes.
“Listen, Jim,” said Skinny, “there ain’t
no hurry. Andy don’t want to be
bothered about that right now. There’s
plenty of time. We’ll arrange a little
celebration.”
If they say there’s no dishonesty in
the racing game they lie. Andy just
winked at him.
“There’s no time like the present,” he
said, and, reaching out his hand, he
grabbed the bundle of notes while that
tartan tie of his stabbed into my eye-
balls.
“Come’n have a drink,” said Jim.
“Well,” said Andy, looking as if he
was in a hurry, “I’d like to, but I don’t
think I could right now —I’ve got to be
at the club in a quarter of an hour.”
There was a taxi coming down the
street, and he lifted his hand. “I’ll see
you later,”
“Sure,” said Jim.
Skinny and I weren’t so sure. A
minute later we watched the taxi vanish
up the road. We walked on in silence.
I was frightened to look at Skinny.
At the corner Skinny said;
“Listen, Jim, it doesn’t matter about
those drinks. I meant to tell you before,
me an’ Scut have got an appointment
to keep. What d’y’ say we meet you
again to-morrow? I’ll bring Andy round
and we’ll celebrate.”
“Anything you say,” said Jim.
We left him. For the next five minutes
Skinny demonstrated the latest in swear-
ing. There were words I didn’t even
know existed.
“What about Lamm?” said I.
WE were getting close to the pub where
we had to meet him.' I looked at
Skinny, and Skinny looked at me. His
face turned over like a sick porpoise.
Then he shrugged his shoulders and
pushed his way through the door.
And Mr. Lamm was there all right,
with his chin just about the level of the
bar. He spied us straightaway. He
looked at us in a puzzled sort of way.
' “Where’s Jim?” he said accusingly.
Skinny did his best with the explana-
tion. While he was running through it
I took a look at Mr. Lamm. I didn’t
like the glint in his eye. My eye dropped
from there to his tie. Oh! it was tartan
all right, the kind of tartan a Presby-
terian preacher would have taken to the
church social. It was as much like Andy
Croomb’s as chalk is to cheese. Not
that it mattered much now, anyway. Mr.
Lamm’s eyes were growing wider and
wider as Skinny went on.
“What do you think this is,” he said
<->ll /T rl af» 1 X T R 11 Q ll
suddenly — Busn
Week? What do
you take me for?”
I’ve never seen
Skinny look so
meek.
“It was just bad
luck,” he said.
“That’s what
you say,” said Mr.
Lamm.
“Listen,” said
Skinny in a plead-
ing kind of voice,
“we’ll get it all
back on Saturday.’
“Not if it’s my
help you need,”
said Mr. Lamm,
looking at him
with his lips very
tight. “I want my
share of to-day’s
issue. What do
you take me for? My name ain’t Dave.'
He stood there like a fighting cock
with a broken spur.
I saw a thoughtful look come into
Skinny’s eyes.
“Wait a minute,” he said, and took me
to one side. “Listen,” he said to me, “it
looks as though it’s a case of the goose
with the golden neck. If he don’t get
paid he pulls the noose. It looks like
we’ve got to pay out. How much have
you got, Scut?”
I dived into my pocket. Seven quid.
Skinny had nine. He took the lot and
went back to Mr. Lamm.
“Listen,” he said, “here’s sixteen.
You’ll get the rest to-morrow.”
For the first time a grin crawled over
Mr. Lamm’s face.
“That’s talkin’,” he said so I could
have knocked him down.
The next morning we had to hock
practically everything we had to make
un the difference. The pawnshop was
like a Noah’s Ark ; two of everything
went in—two overcoats, two watches and
so on. It was tragic!
About eleven Mr. Lamm turned up.
Skinny paid over. There was almost a
tear in my eye as I saw it go, and 1
thought of winter and the time and a lot
of other things.
Mr. Lamm took his money and left.
It was like the end of the world.
We were still there in the afternoon
trying to make up our minds to go and
see lim for our “celebration.” About
two o'clock a knock came to the door.
A messenger boy stood outside holding
out a small packet “for Mr. Hazlitt.”
Skinny grabbed it and ripped open the
packet.
Out fluttered two ties! One was a
glaring tartan, the other the kind of tie
that could have been worn by a Presby-
terian preacher!
I saw Skinny look as though he’d just
been lifted out of a refrigerator. There
was a card in his hand, and I looked
over his shoulder and read it:
To Mr. Winky-whatever-it-is,
with the compliments
of
Mr. Lamm.


m
i|
(ill
m
STUBBORN STftNS
TOOTH DECAY
for clean, sound teeth...
NG GUMS
remove FILM this special way
Science issues a warning . that the fate of your
teeth may rest on what you do to remove film! Dare
you risk ineffective methodj when film may lead to
such serious consequences? Can you afford to trust
precious tooth enamel to any but a special film-remov-
ing dentifrice?
21 years ago a group of men discovered a scientific
fact known to comparatively few— that film should
be removed if teeth are to be kept clean and sound,
if gums are to remain healthy.
A special formula was devised. Since then it has been
constantly improved with one thought in mind: to
remove film safely. To-day, Pepsodent is known as
the "special film-removing tooth paste.” It has been
proved unexcelled in the way it removes the film that
glues decay germs to teeth. Millions know how it
polishes teeth to natural brilliance. Other dentifrices
may promise film-removing action. But are they
equally effective? Can these other kinds remove film
with the same safety?
Pepsodent is SAFE —effective
In fair and unbiased laboratory tests, it was shown
that Pepsodent’s special polishing material was the
softest —and therefore safest ... of 15 leading tooth
pastes and 6 leading tooth powders. Pepsodent con-
tains no grit, nothing to harm the teeth.
Use Pepsodent Tooth Paste twice a day, see your
dentist at least twice a year.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
W 1
NEW
OLD
TUBE
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have
cut costs and we are
passing the saving on
to you. The identical
time-proved Pepsodent
is ready for you in
the new larger tubes
at no increase in price.
N 1 366
This Writer Knows His Natives:—
SUPERSTITION
BY MOMRO TORNBULL.
DANIELI, the student catechist, his
eyes wide open, lay back on his
pallet and snored.
The tense silence of a Papuan night
held the world as in a physical grasp •
a silence mystical and profound and un-
canny ; a silence that smelled of wood-
smoke and rotting leaves and flower
perfume, of rank body odors and stale
coconut oil.
Silence. Danieli lifted his voice.
“Ilai! Imari! Tomasi!”
“Shut up!” a rude voice snarled. ‘1
sleep. Altogether boy sleep. Shut up!”
r
f ’k S "I 8 ■ WI fL- Brea f COn,ent ‘
ment, lay back again, biding his time.
Tf hot r- ! , ’
in u St,C S y ’ cavernously bark
f y-house. The parallel lines
q ’ SU * pended ? 0m tbe be ’
beams were vaguer than shadows. What
little illumination there was came from
mrnnH r ng bur ™ an t lante ™’ with wick
N anging roi T l . tbe ridge-pole,
w and then a moving light on the mis-
™ arys , ve , randah ’ brdbant bat fa i
away, flashed through the iron-barred
windows, casting the crooked outline of
a gea- tree against the hmewashed walls.
Danieli peered into the gloom.
frnari! He paused. “You
sleep ?
This time there was no answer.
Tingling with a strange excitement,
Danieli slid out of his bed. A board
creaked. Instantly he froze. A sleeper
moaned, grunted, ground his teeth; a
leg kicked out and
was still. Silence.
Danieli breathed
again.
Swiftly, silently
he moved his
pallet to one side.
A hand slid over
th e floorboards
and closed on a
projecting nail.
Danieli pulled
gently and a length of board came
away. He had done his work well,
he told himself as he lifted out
another board ; but he must remem-
ber to return the keyhole-saw he had
borrowed from the carpenter’s shop—to-
morrow.
He pulled in his stomach, held his
breath and, wriggling between the ex-
posed joists, dropped lightly on to the
ground below.
In the open the night was cool and
fragrant. The land breeze made curious
little rustlings under the eaves. The
rumble of the surf, ever present, menac-
ing, came only as a sinister whisper.
His years were but few, Danieli
exulted, as he strode towards the beach,
but his courage was that of a man full
grown. Pupuka, his father’s brother, had
dared him, laughed at him, taunted him,
and boldly he had accepted the old one’s
challenge. Hodagi, Pupuka’s new wife,
had widened her eyes at him, and smiled
her slow, mocking smile, and he had
responded as a man responds to a
woman’s lures. Tomasi, the carpenter,
llai, the teacher, and Imari, coxswain of
the cutter, had angered him with their
contemptuous tolerance, calling him brag-
gart and fool and other shameful
names. To-morrow the scoffers should
know him for a true man.
A warm, comforting feeling of self-
satisfaction filled up his whole skin, giv-
ing him a peculiar pleasure. Braggart,
was he? And fool? With the cun-
ning of a snake he had made his plan
of escape ; with the boldness of a bull-
alligator he had carried it out. To-night
he had sloughed his misonare skin —Tor
a time. To-night Pupuka, his kinsman,
would open for him the gateway to a
new world —a world from which, hitherto,
he had been rigorously excluded. And
he would enter for a little while and see
with his eyes those things the misonare
had forbidden him to look upon, and
savor, it might be, the pulse-tingling
delights that were mortal sin.
Hodagi! He was fiercely aware of
Pupuka’s new wife, the warm duskiness
of her skin, the smell of her body, its
slenderness, its grace ; the slim fingers,
softly caressing ; the eyes that mocked —-
and promised. The very thought of the
girl ran like drops of liquid flame
through his* tingling nerves. True, the
Gavamani put men in gaol for looking
in sin upon other men’s wives. In the
old days a spear would have been driven
through the philanderer’s belly. But
these were the new days, praise be to
God ; the days of white man’s law and
order and the thing white men called
sivi-lai-sationi.
la! It would be wonderful to dance,
with Hodagi, the proscribed dance of the
duni-chini; to leap from the long-house,
at the appointed time, painted and oiled
and decorated with the appropriate
heathen emblems; to take his place in
the close-packed ranks and commune,
with voice and drum, with the spirits of
the dead, propitiating the malignant,
cajoling the benign, summoning the
shades of friends and enemies from the
Great Darkness, inviting them to re-
joice with the living and dance and sing
and eat of the food prepared against
their coming in the yam-houses of the
sorcerers.
Danieli smiled a smile of superior
knowledge. There was no spirit world
peculiar to New Guinea; no Great
Darkness peopled by wraiths, bodies
without substance, monsters without
souls. There were no ghosts, no demons,
no “devil-devils” ; no good spirits to
succor man in his travail, nor evil ones
to work mischief upon him.
Dirava, there was: He whom white
men called God. And lesu Keriso, His
Son. And Satani, who was the father of
lies. Heaven awaited for such as died
in grace, and Hell for bushmen who
knew not the servants of the Lord. All
else was foolishness invented by the sor-
cerers to their great profit and the be-
devilment of the ignorant. White men
had a name for such nonsense ; a word
constantly in the mouths of Misonare
and Gavamani; a word that twisted a
man’s tongue if he had not the trick of it.
“Supa-sa-tisioni!” Danieli said aloud.
Even as he spoke a scream split the
silence ; the scream of one in some dread-
ful pain which brought him nearer and
nearer every moment to death ; so near
that he was already peering into the gulf,
and the terror of it was in his soul ; the
scream of that great owl men call the
“Death Bird.”
Danieli’s heart thumped. For a
moment he stood rooted, unable to
move, scarcely breathing, while a little
thrill, a nasty little thrill, crawled along
his spine. Then an overpowering
paroxysm of anger shook him; anger
not against the bird and the evil omen
of its cry, but anger against himself for
permitting his mind to dally with folly.
“Supa-sa-tisioni!” he shouted his
defiance.
His voice shook, not with fear, but
with shame, and as the muscles of his
body relaxed he glared into the black-
ness of the night, shaking his fist with
imperious scorn.
Nevertheless, his pace quickened as the
lisping swish of the sea came to him. The
jungle fell away, and with it the feeling
of strain he so stoutly denied. He felt
warm sand under his feet; sniffed the
sharp, salt tang of the sea and, sur-
prisedly, he found his body was wet with
sweat.
The lagoon waters were very still.
Almost Danieli could sense menacing
presences out there—waiting, watching.
A frightening vision presented itself
vividly in his mind. He shuddered as he
saw it. Long black shapes that were war
canoes, approaching silently, relentlessly,
to conquer and ravish and lay waste,
deluging the land with blood . . . the old.
peoples who had lived before him, whose
songs would be sung at the rising jf
the moon, whose dances would be
danced to-night . . . dark shapes plough-
ing the ageless bosom of the lagoon, leap-
ing upon the ageless land . . . fighters,
takers of heads, eaters of men . . . howl-
ing in battle and blood and lust . . . the
old peoples who were his fathers . . .
the old New Guinea his fathers had
known . . .
Danieli shivered as he turned his face
towards the village.
«CO, small boy!” Pupuka jeered, and
& he wagged his grizzled head saga-
ciously, while a grin of mingled knowing-
ness and amusement spread over his face.
“You see, old one,” Daniel! retorted,
his face studiously expressionless, “I no
fright. I come.”
The moon had risen above the moun-
tain crests, washing out the stars, powder-
ing the dancing square with silver dust,
making a fretted black pattern along the
lip of the jungle, casting a ghastly sheen
upon the sea beyond.
From the long-house came the sound
of voices, deep, vibrant, chanting a cere-
monial hymn. The words had no mean-
ing, but in the tune was the pulse of beat-
ing drums, the whisper of the jungle, the
mystic voices of palm fronds crooning
to the north-west wind, the harsh rattle
of them when the south-east came roar-
ing across the sea, clash of spears, twang
of bowstrings, thud of club, fantastic
clamor of conch-shell and bull-roarer.
Each motif was there, clearly distinguish-
able, yet subtly blended into the voice of
a people, his people, gropingly express-
ing -Danieli knew not what.
And into his soul came the spirit of
it: a rhythm was beating in his veins
like the quick pulse of new life.
The tempo quickened as the singers,
monstrous apparitions, plumed, painted
and bedecked for the dance, erupted
from the long-house.
A feeling of mystic exaltation took pos-
session of Danieli. Then the most violent
sensation he had ever known flooded his
being. He gave himself up to it as the
betel-addict surrenders to his drug.
Fires flared up as gnomelike, pot-
bellied urchins heaped on loose fronds
and dried husks, sending bright showers
of sparks heavenwards. In the gloom
beyond the ring of flame shadows danced
eerily on a man’s bare torso, a woman’s
hip, throwing into high relief a painted
face with glaring eyes ; a clawlike hand
brandishing a spear ; an uplifted water-
gourd and the dark curve of the gulping
throat beneath.
The dancers, men and women, closed
in on one another and retreated, swaying
gracefully like young palms in the wind,
voices low and measured, faces rapt,
exalted. Softly, seductively, with a pro-
vocatively wanton side-swing of the kilt
that bared slim bodies to the hip the
women posed and postured, setting
banked-down fires aflame, kindling hot
lights in their partners’ eyes.
Drums began to pulse, and their subtle
vibrations were as heady wine to Danieli,
releasing primal instincts within him that
turned in rebellion, final and complete,
against the alien taboos that had governed
his life. The people, his people, were at
play. Youth was master of the revels,
and he was young. He was aware of the
old men mouthing and gibbering on the
long-house platform ; of Pupuka, his
kinsman, smiling at him in the manner
of a benign old lady ; of Hodagi, sway-
ing her lissom body in the dancing
square ; her steadfast, desiring gaze.
He daubed red-and-yellow ochre on his
face with hands that twitched, snatched
a whisk of parrot feathers from Pupuka
and fastened it in his hair and leapt into
the ring, bounding like a man on springs,
slapping his buttocks, howling like a
hunting dog that scents the quarry.
Pupuka nodded, chuckling, and re-
freshed himself with betel-nut.
«THERE is fear in my skin, Danieli,
* because of the evil we have done.”
A queer smile touched Hodagi’s lips;
there was mockery in her eyes, challenge.
“To-morrow Pupuka, my man, will
revile you for a dog and the son of a
dog ; the Gavamani police will come for
you and make you fast with handcuffs,
and I shall be beaten with sticks.”
Danieli thrust out his chest, flexed his
biceps and laughed. The vibrant, pene-
trating throbbing of the drums seemed
far away, yet they hammered in his ear-
drums like the beat of a demon’s wings.
There were voices near him, hushed
whispers, low laughter, soft footfalls. This,
then, was the dance of the duni-duni!
Love-drunken youths, strutting, postur-
ing ; happily-excited girls with hibiscus
blooms behind their ears and star flowers
in their hair; truants from the dance,
hidden among the trees.
Pupuka! Handcuffs! Gaol! Danieli
did not consider these things. He only
knew that he was very happy.
“Pupuka is old and ugly as a man-
grove root, my Hodagi; but we are
young, and to-night”
“To-night you go on a journey, my
friend,” said a voice, the snarling voice
of Pupuka the Avenger. “A long jour-
ney, cockroach, yet a short one ; a jour-
ney that ends ere it has begun. So!”
There was not time to utter a plea, to
strike a blow. The spear took Danieli be-
tween the shoulder blades, pinning him to
the ground. The scream of the Death Bird
and the death-cry of Danieli were one.


■I
m
.
At your request ivc shall he
pleased to ;forward folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
to
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you - ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars—the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-,
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS. PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. IT. Hart, Esq. ; 31. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.31. G.
General Manager—M. G. HAY3IEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Hanking Institutions covering Australasia and the_ World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
|IN I
§1
Monument o£ the Battle of the Nations.
TRADE FAIR
The popularity of this buying centre
is amply proved year after year.
You cannot afford to overlook the
profit-making opportunities made
possible by the Leipzig Fair held
every March and August.
COMMENCES AUGUST 30
Comprising General Samples, Building,
Household and Industrial Equipment Fair.
All information, including Barter Arrangements , from:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for
the Leipzig Trade Fair, L. MESSEY, Technical
Adviser, Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O.
Box No. 3127 P, Sydney. ’Phone: 84006.
C. N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard & Co., 360 Post Office
Place, G.P.O. Box 1658, Melbourne.
H. O. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
The Touch of Sentiment in the 'Loo:-
YOU'D BE
SURPRISED
BY HILARY LOFTING.
THE sheilahs and the dogs are the best
things in the ’Loo. Old pensioners
and dreaming Dagoes, life’s evening,
the bells of the Basilica—there’s a sort of
a kick in that, if it has got carpet-slippers
on. But the sheilahs and the dogs don’t
need a kick with them.
Sleek, good-lookers all, well-nourished,
with a first-class idea of themselves —
you’d be surprised. No one knows
where they came from. Mrs. Fritzi
Ryan’s got a new pedigree spaniel ;
there’s an ash-blonde eyefull up at
Charlie’s in Triangle-street; the Sealyham
bitch at the Vasari’s —old Carlo combs
her on the doorstep as if she was a movie-
star ; the orange Pekinese Anita Cortez
brought over from Stanley-street would
go into a quart-pot and leave nearly a
pint over.
And that piece like a plum, with a
kind of dark bloom on her —the one that
came over with Luke Carlin’s lot and
took old Mother Dane’s best room when
the rest skipped to Victoria. You’d be
surprised the way she lit up Mother
Dane’s dirty doorway in Barge-street ;
like a sudden fire, only dark and half-
asleep, watching you. About 19, a “mani-
curist,” Leda Carol. Luke and his boy-
friends brought her over, skipped for
their lives, and left her there ; whatever
the racket was it was as dark as her eyes
and hair.
Even Clifford Mimbles was surprised ;
and Cliff’s oldish now, turned his half-
century, and it takes a good jolt to knock
him. Tilda was washing that sort of a
Pom of hers when he came into the
kitchen. She glanced at him and laughed.
“Lookit, Albert,” she said to the Pom,
who had soap in both eyes and was hat-
ing her and the world and God ; “look
at daddy all dressed up.” She slipped,
Cliff another glance sideways. “Any-
where to go?” she added. “You look
like a wedding-day.”
“Only up the street —got an appoint-
ment with a couple o’ blokes. I may be
an hour or two.”
“Coupla blokes me kneecap,” she
mocked, her hard eyes watching Cliff fix
his tie at the mirror. “Who is it? That
albino at Charlie’s, or the black-and-
tan old Luke left to be called for? Or
just old Freda at the pinkie joint?”
He turned to face her, his gaze harder
and colder than hers. “Ye’re talkin’ out
o’ your turn,” he began curtly, “and ’
“Me turn be damned!” Albert’s head
nearly came off under the sudden vigor
of her rubbing of his neck. “D’ye think
I don’t know the signs? You’ve worn a
different suit and a clean shirt every day
this week. You’ve shaved every day.
You’ve”
She paused. When she spoke again the
fury had faded from her eyes and voice,
only the scorn remaining.
“But you ought to be ashamed of your-
self,” she told him softly. “You know
that, don’t you? Of course, there’s no
telling what a dirty-minded old man”!
come at”
“Shut it! ” Cliff picked up his hat; the
echo of the bitter menace in his voice
filled the room, the house, the ’Loo, so
that even Tilda fell silent. “I’m not old
and my mind’s not dirty—not near as
dirty as your tongue. I’ve had 20 years
of it, and that’s plenty.”
He put on the hat and went out.
THE stillness of Tilda’s face was sud-
denly broken as she lifted Albert out
of the tub and wrapped the towel round
him.
“What did he mean by that, Albert?”
she asked in a half-whisper.
Albert was square with good-feeding,
four months old, and out of that damned
bath at last; on the other hand, Cliff had
gone out without him ; he had thus ups-
and-downs of his own to tackle, and had
no suggestion (other than a flicker of
tail) to offer to her query.
“It’s that black-and-tan,” she went on,
“all sleepy Spanish eyes and cold cream.
He’s a fine-looking man —I’d half-for-
gotten it till I saw him dolled up as he
used to in the old days. And he’s not
old ; you wouldn’t think he was 40. But
what did he mean by that?”
Albert bit her hand in love and affec-
tion, and she cuffed him thoughtfully.
“Women get old, old and sour . . .
you can’t help it.”
Rubbing a disguising fluffiness into
Albert’s coat she could see the 20 years
and Cliff, lean and hard, brown, always
beautifully dressed, smiling at her at the
beginning of them. And clever —he’d got
away with more big jobs than any man
in the game; and a couple of short
stretches at Bathurst and one at Parra-
matta was all he’d put back. And he was
light on his feet and handsome still he
looked like somebody.
But she was old, old ; and she never had
been much of a looker. It had always
surprised and thrilled her that it went on
year after year, that he came back to her
full of himself after each job, and brought
her a bunch of flowers. And lashings of
cash. The cash was nothing ; but the
touch-and-go, the never knowing from
hour to hour, and his quiet smile —that
had been her life. That was the 20
years ; all that she could ever show for
being alive, for being Cliff’s wife,
Cliff’s . . .
Plenty, he’d said it was. Plenty . .
CLIFF, meantime, had walked up the
street and turned into Barge-street,
A man knew his limit when he reached
it; “dirty-minded old man” was his.
For a year it had been sour and bicker-
ing, or sulking,*or up-staging, or sticky-
beaking—a swine of a life. 0.K., if you
thought it was your job. But “dirty old
man” let you out without squibbing, if
you wanted a getaway. He was off,
somehow, quick and lively. He’d tell her
to-night
Leda came out of Mother Dane’s dirty
doorway and his blind fury vanished.
The ’Loo was 20 years younger, with a
spell on it, a caressing desperation
“Well, Cliff.” Her heavy creamy voice
brought the spell into his spirit, made it
potent. “Where’s your taxi —I told you
1 wanted a word with you to-day.”
He laughed. “We’ll get one in William-
street,” he said. “You look like a basket
of roses.”
“Like hell,” she told him softly, “and
all round the neck, like you love me.
You’re easy on the eyes yourself, if it
comes to that.”
He laughed again. “Wish it was mid-
night but —there’s a taxi! ”
Across the table at The Madrid all
that Spanish music slipped from her. She
dropped her cigarette-butt into her coffee-
cup.
“This word I want with you, Cliff”—;
her steady eyes watched him.
Cliff knew the eyes and the voice. “Go
ahead,” he said curtly, as if it were
Fritzi Ryan bringing him a proposition.
“Luke’s old.” She still watched him.
“His nerve’s gone —he gets the jitters if
you look up the street. And he’s on a
permanent shicker.”
“Well?” Cliff asked in the pause.
“Harry and the Bishop, Claude, Cissy
Hogan —all the boys—they dropped me
here to have this word with you.”
“Well?”
“What’s wrong with you coming over
to Melbourne and running the show?”
She glanced down at the coffee-cup.
“Coming over with me,” she added.
Cliff leaned back. Running Luke Car-
lin’s lot. Tied in everywhere, up and
down and sideways. Real big money in
every job. That was as high as you could
go in the game. Cutting out Luke
Carlin . . .
“They want you —/ want you.” The
voice became heavy, wove the spell again,
brought back the desperate caress, cut
away the years.
IT was after midnight when he came
into the kitchen again. Tilda said so
at the top of her voice. She told him
also to watch that Albert didn’t skip out
of the open door, damn him —he’d
got away again this arvo. and she
thought she’d lost him. All this woke
Albert, who also had something to say
at the top of his voice.
Cliff shut them both up by telling
Tilda that he was off. He’d had plenty,
and he’d have no more. It was the finish.
Thursday he’d be gone for good.
She listened in a stilled silence ; only
her eyes, watching him, moved. He
meant it; you always knew when Cliff
meant it; and all those days were only
so much memory now, as if they both
were dead.
For the one day left the place was full
of silence and darkness ; but only Tilda
and Albert knew that. Cliff, coming and
going, packing his suitcases, fetching his
laundry, found her much as usual. A bit
more damn-your-eyes, perhaps, and liable
to bite your head off, but you couldn’t
blame her for that. He gave her her first
week’s fiver in advance, and she told him
to choke himself with it; so he stood the
salt-cellar on it on the table,- and took his
hat off the peg.
“Hell, it’s not that late, is it?” she said
casually. “Albert and me haven’t done
our shopping yet.”
“Got one or two things to do,” he ex-
plained, “so I’ll”
“So have we got things to do —-you’d
be surprised. We’re on our own now, and
we can’t send daddy out for the butter
and the chutney we forgot.” She smiled
at him.' “So long, Cliff. Good luck.
Give my love to the black-and-tan.”
He opened his mouth, but closed it
again and picked up his suitcases. At
the door he turned, watched her lighting
the gas.
“What’s keeping you?” she asked in
faint surprise.
“So long,” he replied, and went down
the stairs.
FOR the past hour Albert’s life had
been hell. He’d picked up the trail,
lost it twice, found it again, lost it again.
Men had yelled at him ; women had tried
to pick him up. He had run miles ; he
was blown, weary and old.
And now here he was in this great
cavern of a place, with more roaring
wheels, and such a stink that you couldn’t
pick up a butcher’s trail
Hell vanished, and heaven opened.
Albert hurled himself down the plat-
form. He leapt at Cliff’s chest,
and tumbled down to his boots. But
that was no good, not after the hour
of hell; he climbed up a trouser-leg,
whimpered with relief and joy, until
Cliff put an arm round him and held him.
“Friend of yours?” Leda asked.
“Yes.” Cliff looked down into Albert’s
nondescript face. The train was due out
in ten minutes. “Yes, a friend of mine.”
She laughed. “He certainly likes you,”
she said.
But Cliff didn't seem to hear her or
to realise that she was there. He was
still staring into Albert’s face.
TILDA was rolling a cigarette when he
came into the kitchen and put his
suitcases down. She looked up, and the,
makings and the paper fell from her
fingers. But at once her face was hag-
gard and weather-beaten again.
“You got back then. Didn’t she turn
up?”
“Where’s Albert?” he replied.
“Lost,” she said.
“Oh. Why aren’t you tearing up the
oilcloth, makin’ a search-party?”
“Oh, I thought they’d made a job of
it,” she told him. “Had your tea?”
For answer he came round the table
and took Albert out of his overcoat
pocket. Tilda clutched him, buried her
face in his disguising fur.
“I thought you’d be wanting him,”
Cliff said. “Glad to see* us?”
“You’d be surprised . . . Have you
had your damn’ tea, I asked you?” she
snapped.


Rev. F. H. RAYWARD
eulogises
! HEENZOl
the money-saving
family remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
BRONCHITIS 8 ’FLU
READ THIS LETTER FROM
Rev. F. H. RAYWARD,
Superintendent, Central Methodist Mission,
Newcastle.
The Manager,
“HEENZO,”
Dear Sir,
For years the Newcastle Central
Methodist Mission has been conducting
a Hostel and also a Night Shelter for
destitute men. Being frequently ill-clad
and undernourished, these men are
particularly susceptible to all manner of
throat and chest troubles. For the last
three winters I have arranged for a
supply of Heenzo,” which has been
m:
taken with most beneficial effect. As a matter of fact, I would not care
to face a winter without a supply of this remarkably effective remedy
for the men. The economy of “Heenzo” is a wonderful recommendation
from my standpoint, and, when this cheapness is matched by effectiveness,
one has an ideal medicine for throat and chest troubles.
Yours faithfully,
F. H. RAYWARD.
HEENZO COSTS 2/- AND SAVES £’s
For the last twenty years millions of Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough and influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is so easy
to add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water, and thus
make a large supply of cough remedy equal in quantity and superior in quality to
about £ 1 s worth of the best of the ready-made-up remedies for chest and throat
ailments. The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal cough remedy for babies ai>
well as adults.
!HEENZOi
should be used in every home.
€mf
* M
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
May Issue Now on Sale.
MAORILAND’S FINANCIAL EXPERIMENTS
PROBLEM OF IMPORTS
INTEREST RATES
PRICE 21- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will bt taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany
D.S.M.: Bald and vapid... .D.L.: “This
sounds O.K. to me, but to you it may not.”
Far from it, brother... .F.E.R.: Quite a good
I ballade, with a catchy refrain, but it’s on “body-
! line”... .Night-owl; Neither is worth a hoot
. ...A.F.H.: Your grain of gold is beaten out
too fine A.E.P.: There’s a lilt in it, but the
I reflections are on the trite side... .W.C. (C.Q.):
No need for excuses; we’re always glad to hear
| from you. But the fact that verses are “true”
doesn’t excuse their badness; we’d sooner have
them mendacious and metrical... .A.S.M.:
1 hey were turned back alike at the Bush Bal-
ladry and the Abo. gate... .W.D.H.; One was
used... .G.M.: Our opinion on your poem en-
titled “War” is the same as General Sherman’s
on the subject of it F.M.: A pretty philo-
sophy, but one liable to wear out on the
wallaby... .F.H.H.: Poems duly considered
and rejected... .J.P.: Must find space for one
Couplet on the horrors of drought:
0 Spring, come soon, the sad earth weepcd,
Or all will soon by Death be reaped.
C.H.: Very well, then; but what about
you?—
“Populate or Perish!”
Echoes the bold refrain,
Repel the invading forces
Who seek to trespass our main!
“Populate or Perish!”
Australia’s in direst need.
Stay the declining birth-rate
Or succumb to nations’ greed.'
... .W.C.: Dismally unimpressive G.M.S.:
To say they are crude is putting it very charit-
ably....!.: “Old Bill” was ushered 0ut....
l.B.: You can’t rhyme for nuts... .A.M.8.:
Not worth typing J.M.T.: So you “com-
posed the lot in a week.” If you had
done it in a day, or even an hour
they could hardly have been more feeble.
E.P.D.: The ending is still the
trouble S.M.: You tell it like a fairy-tale,
and we don’t believe it E.D.: Don’t like
anaemic old farmers E.M.G.: Not up to
your usual M.A.: Can’t sympathise with
the half-witted copper... .L.W.N.: Too dis-
jointed ; tightened up it might be placed else-
where F.A.H.: We like to give our mur-
derers a sporting chance... .P.D.: The forlorn
maiden so deluged the office with tears that
she had to be removed... .R. 8.; After show-
ing promise in the opening pages it wandered
off the track... .C.H.W.: You have read too
many American “pulp” magazines... .A.T.:
Just another dreary bush-burial yarn
C. 8.: A good sleeping draught... .P.8.M.:
Five thousand words where a thousand
would have sufficed N.G.: Plot is as thin
as the paper you use A.W.M.: Your lack
of knowledge of court procedure is very
evident... .T.L.: A common variation of the
biter-bitten p10t... .F.A.: No hope for the
lady who served stewed cats to her boarders.
. ...K.E.: Others have beaten you to the post.
... .Bellerive: Come to think of it, there are
many less worth-while themes for a poet s
pen:
W. T. GOODGE.
A once popular writer
Of humorous rhymes
On life at night in
The bygone times.
He'd portray in verse
Beer, chips and fish,
Grays, oysters and sause,
A famed supper dish;
Saveloys, rolls
And jollification
Among night revellers
In gay recreation.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.L.: Radio-station comedians have been
broadcasting the gag for months and the draw-
ing is a f10p... .C.F.: Figures in the fore-
ground appear to be fresh from a casualty
ward... .F.R.H.: Might pass as decora-
tions, but no use as humorous illustrations.
....H.C.: The picture doesn’t tell the story....
G. 8.; Make jests more snappy and drawings
less obscure... .R.R.P.; Little for you while you
slavishly imitate another man’s style... .H.F.:
That horror cost us 6d. for deficient postage.
W.M.: You’re a hard worker, but still a
long way below publication level. .. .N.R.H-;
Give up trying to work on a grained surface
with a fine nib... .A.G.K.: An obvious first
attempt... .W.W.: It has a crude appearance;
try more polish... .E.N.; An old Phil
May jest resurrected... .C.D.: You Lave
a sense of humor but an untrained
hand A.H.R.; It may have taken you hours
to draw, but a few seconds sufficed for its
rejection F.J.: The approach of winter is
always heralded by the picture of a drunk
offering his overcoat to an unclothed , c emale
statue 1.J.: Charcoal drawings need a fixa-
tive when completed; yours arrived in a ter-
ribly smudged condition... .N.C.: The pre-
served-monkey wheeze was played out long
before the artists fell on it....M.M.: Dis-
figured by blots, erasures and the indis-
criminate use of Chinese white... .A.L.J.: A
temperance journal might snap it up....
A.K.: Wooden and scratchy... .R.H.: Will
try to struggle on without picture of Haile
Silassie playing the violin.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Australian pianist Teddy Cahill, with
his grand piano under his arm, is giving
concerts in France, Vienna, Paris and
London. At Mentone he had the pat-
ronage and presence of the Duchess of
Vendome, a sister to Belgium’s late King
Albert, and he was at a party to
Mrs. Brown-Potter a few weeks before
she died. The party surrounded the
presentation of a life-size portrait of her-
self. Dining in the Casino when the King
of Sweden was entertaining and meeting
the Baroness Orczy are items in the
wanderer’s letter, coupled with greetings
to Australia.
* * * *
“Salopian”: If Housman’s A Shop-
shire Lad was rejected by Macmillan be-
fore it was published by Kegan Paul in
1896, it can hardly have been “on the
advice of John Moriey” (R.P. 13/5/’36).
For John (later Lord) Moriey, once a
publisher's reader and a magazine editor,
had left literature for politics over a
dozen years before that. His rise in Par-
liament was rapid ; in 1886 he was Glad-
stone's Secretary for Ireland. And as a
fighting Parliamentarian, in and out of
office for years thereafter, he could
scarcely have found time to appraise the
saleable (or other) qualities of books of
poetry for publishers.
* * * *
“Nobels”: Speaking of explosion by
detonation, the classic example must be
the sinking of the Artiglio, the Italian
salvage vessel engaged a year or two ago
in the English Channel. Destroying a
sunken munition-carrier just outside a
French port, the Artiglio was blowing
the wreck to pieces, a section at a time—
and without apparently detonating a
single shell of the presumably water-
logged cargo. Firing electrically by
means of a mile-long cable the salvage
vessel was supposed to draw off that dis-
tance before pressing the button. But
everything seemed so safe, the water-
logged shells so dead, that gradually the
distance shortened—until on the charge
that was to finish the job the Italians
made it a bare 200 yards. But just at
that time the whole cargo of “dead”
shells “concussed,” and the swicl that
swept back into the tremendous hole in
the water took the Artiglio with it in one
gul p • "
& * * * *
“Barangkali”: That New Guinea boy
who joined up a series of tins to frighten
away parrots (B. 22/4/’36) pinched a leaf
from his Malayan cousin’s book. Over
the padi fields of Java and Malaya are
strung elaborate models of hawks, men
and lizards, all fitted with movable
parts, these in turn being connected by
rattan with tins and rattles. Seated in
the middle of five acres, a brown young-
ster gives an occasional tug at the master
rope that sets these models moving and
tins clanging over the whole area. With
the larger animals such as pig and deer,
Ahmat leaves the way open for their
entry, but each opening is guarded by a
covered pit with the bottom a mass of
upturned sharpened stakes,
*„* * *
Latakia : The meerschaums given to
sadormen to color by that Hamburg to-
bacconist (B. 13/ 5 / ’36) must have been
a cheap variety. In the ;sixties when the
y°E ue f ° r them was at its height, it was
‘ mpo ? sl Me to buy a meerschaum under a
Aver before coloring, and after that prices
! an up to £5O for super qualities Color-
mg was a„ art practised by professionals
and '™' ated . ,he S' 011 "® bl °° ds , °} ,he
d Y The pipes were not just tinted one
c 0 ? r n B * th f “ se ( °} d,ffe fi re . n ‘ , 2 bacc0 ?'
ar,ful1 '' manipulated a fln ‘ shed , sp f
™ en was , banded w “ h P" ha P s ba,f a
h o2 ,™, ln ‘ s - ran S'"B from deep old oat
° h S ht fa ™; wl ! h > Pfhaps, a line of
,he snow-white original meerschaum for
con ia l’ *
“Ahoy”: While Adelaide is busy on its
centenary, Texas (U.S.A.) will also be
celebrating its 100th anniversary as an
independent State. It has had a colorful
history. In its past 250 years it has
existed under six flags—those of France,
Spain, Mexico, the Texan Republic, the
Confederacy and the United States. The
capital has actually been changed 13
times ; four cities have appeared in the
list twice. As an independent republic
Texas was recognised by Great Britain,
the United States, France and other
Powers.
* * * *
Vieux Marcheur : I question the
statement that vaudeville performers of
30-odd years ago cracked jokes which
w^ re sometimes a trifle strong for the
P n ™ aud > e " c Y th ° s Jr days
6/5/ 36). Much of the stuff that was put
over m the nineties would fill a theatre
note-taking police to-day; speak-
m S generally, the atmosphere was as
deeply blue as the lost azure of the
Chinese potters. The prim audiences
lapped it up like thirsty lambs, and it"
they were gallery patrons replied to some
extra-atrocious jape in kind. Still, it was
not all direct statement on the part of
the performers. Some of the great artists
relied on delicate—more or less —
innuendo.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
mist be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Governess, exp. correspondence system,
seeks position. Private and departmental refs.
-1591.
Scotch couple (Vic.), accustomed to stock,
agricultural work and cars, wife cook, etc.,
desire positions on station. —1560.
Name and address of a Digger who would
like to receive copy of “Reveille” each month
post free. (To R. H. Weston, Moonya, Leura,
N.S.W.).
Overseer, 10 years’ exp. , stud and flock in
Q. and N.S.W., wants position anywhere.
Refs—1544.
Motor mechanic (38), N.S.W., exp. black-
smithing and all building tools, wants position
on station. Refs. —1547.
Married mechanic, N.S.W., exp. all classes
of station machinery, wants employment on
station anywhere. Refs.—1551.
Copy of each of the last 10 issues of the
“Gramophone,” edited by Compton Mackenzie.
-1549.
To buy urgently acting edition of A Bill
of Divorcement, by Clemence Dane. —1561.
To exchange Harmsworth’s Universal
Encyclopedia (12 vols.) and Modern World
Encyclopedia (nine vols.) for back numbers,
past 12 years, of “Inland Printer,” “American
Printer” or “British Printer.”—1497.
Words of verse “Nimmitabel on Monaro.”
-1490.
Information Sought.
(1) How can I obtain an amateur wireless
transmitting license? (2) Cost? (3) Where to
apply ? (4) Where can l obtain a diagram of
a transmitter ? (5) Name of firm supplying
same ? —1482.
(1) The applicant is examined on the follow-
ing subjects: Elementary electrical and radio
theory ; adjustments of low-powered apparatus ;
P.M.G.’s Regulations; Morse code, sending and
receiving (12 words per min.). (2) 5s., plus an
issuing fee of 2s. 6d. (3) Senior Radio In-
spector, Brisbane. (4) Consult The Radio Hand-
book for Amateurs and Experimenters, pub-
lished by “Radio,” 6s. 6d. (5) Colville Wireless
Equipment Co., 4 Rowe-street, Sydney.
* * * *
What was William Lane’s calling ? Also the
date and place of his birth ? —1429.
Lane, the originator of the “New Australia”
venture in Paraguay, was born at Bristol,
England, September 6, 1861. He was educated
at grammar school, and at 14 went to Canada,
where, after some hardships, he entered the
composing-room of a newspaper. He engaged
in journalism for some years in Canada and
the United States, and in 1885 came to Aus-
tralia ; here he worked for a number of leading
newspapers, notably the Brisbane “Courier,”
edited the “Boomerang,” of which he was
part proprietor, and in 1890 established the
Queensland “Worker.”
* * * *
(1) When were experiments first carried out
in connection with electrical stimulation of plant
growth, and by whom ? (2) Particulars of
apparatus used in recent experiments ? (3) Is
the apparatus costly ? (4) Book on subject ?
-1469.
(1) About 150 years ago, when Abbe Bertho-
lon, in France, discovered that the fertility and
appearance of growing plants improved under
the influence of atmospheric electricity. About
45 years ago, it was demonstrated by
Prof. Lemstroem, of Helsingfors University, that
plant growth was stimulated by electricity. (2)
The apparatus used on the Arlington Experi-
mental Farm consisted of a 112-volt induction
coil with motor-driven mercury interrupter. One
end of the coil secondary was earthed and the
other connected to a network of wires placed
about 10ft. over the field. (3) Yes, several
hundred pounds. (4) Electro-Farming, by R. B.
Matthews (Ernest Benn, Ltd., London).
sjs Jfc ❖ •
Did the ’plane recently lost at the South
Pole carry a wireless, and was the men’s rescue
due to wireless messages ? —1408.
The ’plane Polar Star carried wireless, but
the installation failed on the first day out. On
landing, Ellsworth and Kenyon managed to effect
some repairs, and endeavored to send out mes-
sages announcing their plight and giving their
position, but these, although picked up by
H.M.S. Dunedin and others, were too faint to
be of any value. The explorers were located
and rescued by a ’plane from Discovery II.,
which had been sent south in search of them.
* * * *
Is gold still being worked in Alaska ? What
are the other chief industries, if any ? Also
how and. when was Alaska acquired by the
U.S.A. ? —1247.
Gold prospecting is still carried on, as well
as mining for coal, copper and a number of
other minerals. Hardy varieties of wheat are
grown and some dairy cattle raised, but the
principal herds are reindeer, which were intro-
duced as being particularly suitable for the
climate ; there is much fur farming, as well as
the hunting of wild animals for their pelts, and
the production of lumber is extremely valuable,
but the most important industry is fish canning,
particularly salmon. Alaska was bought from
Russia in 1867 for 7,000,000 dollars.
* * * *
Particulars of the Sunshine railway disaster ?
—1415.
It occurred on April 20, 1908, at 10.45 p.m.
at Sunshine station, Braybrook, Victoria. The
down Bendigo train crashed into the rear of
the down Ballarat train just as the latter had
commenced to move out of the station ; 43
persons were killed and 250 injured, some very
seriously. The scene of the disaster is about
seven miles from Melbourne.
* * * *
Does thorough mastication of food really
assist digestion ? If otherwise in health, must
soft and hard food alike be chewed to avoid
digestive faults, dyspepsia, etc. ? —1570.
Food of every kind must be masticated
thoroughly before being swallowed. The saliva
prepares the food for digestive processes which
are continuous throughout the alimentary canal.
Therefore good digestion and consequent good
health depend primarily upon the manner in
which food is chewed. The proper mode ol
eating is to allow each morsel of food to
remain! in the mouth until well mixed with the
saliva. It is most necessary that even the
softest food should be treated in this way.
Gladstone attributed his robust health chiefly
to the fact that he took 25 bites to every piece
of meat.
* * * *
Where is thyroid-gland substance obtain-
able; dose and medicinal use ? —1477.
Tablets are retailed by all chemists. Dosage
in any case should be determined and admin-
istered under medical supervision. B.P. official
dose is from 4 to 4 grains. The drug increases
metabolism or progressive tissue change, and
so augments the excretion of nitrogen, sulphur
and phosphorus; some loss in weight usually
results. Skin disorders and remote organic
irregularities come within scope of this treat-
ment.
* * * *
Particulars of the career of Captain Kane,
of H.M.S. Calliope?— l4l4.
Born 1844, second son of Sir Robert Kane,,
and entered the navy as cadet in 1858; was pro-
moted captain in 1882, rear-admiral in 1897 and
admiral in 1907. He saw active service in
Egypt in 1882, when he commanded the Suez
Canal Guard from Ismailia to Kantara, and
was later placed second in command of the
Naval Brigade operating with the land forces.
He took part in the battle of Tel-el-Kebir and
other engagements, and for his services in this
campaign, during which he was wounded, he
received the Egyptian Medal and the Khedive’s
Bronze Star. In 1887 he was appointed to the
command of H.M.S. Calliope, which he saved
from destruction during the terrible hurricane
of 1889 at Apia, Samoa. He died in 1917.
* * * *
What was the wording of the coronation
oath in the reign of William and Mary and
succeeding sovereigns ? —1458.
The coronation oath was amended to prac-
tically its present form following the reign
of James lE, when the sovereign attacked the
church, of which he was constitutionally the
head. As administered to William and Mary
at their coronation after the revolution of
1688, the oath requires the sovereign, in re-
sponse to the Archbishop of Canterbury, to
agree to govern according to statutes in Par-
liament agreed on and the laws and customs
of the realm; to cause law and justice in
mercy to be executed in all his judgments; to
preserve and maintain the reformed religion
established by law; to maintain and preserve
inviolably the settlement of the Church of Eng-
land, the doctrine, worship, discipline and gov-
ernment thereof, as by law established, and to
preserve unto the bishops and clergy of the
church all such rights and privileges as by law
appertain to them. By the Act of Union be-
tween England and Scotland the sovereign
was also asked* to pledge himself to the pro-
tection of the Church of Scotland, but it was
provided that this oath should be taken at the
accession instead of the coronation. On the
accession of the late King in 1911 the oath
was amended slightly in wording, but not in
substance.
* $ ❖ ❖
A Douglas Credit supporter tells me that the
transcontinental railway was financed by credit
issued by the Commonwealth Bank, that no
interest is paid on any capital, and that it cost
practically nothing. He says it is a practical
example of what could be done under the
Douglas Credit system. . What are the facts ?
—1122.
The capital cost of the trans-Australian rail-
way to June 30, 1935, was £8,064,810, of which
£1,401,315 came from revenue and £6,663,495
from loan fund. When the note issue was
handed over to the Commonwealth Bank in
1920, the total accumulated interest (£7,780,000)
derived from investments of the fund was re-
tained by the Commonwealth and applied to
the redemption of debt. The remainder of the
investments (£3,078,000) were transferred to
the Commonwealth Bank as portion of the
assets of the notes fund. So far as the
capital cost from works loan fund of the
trans-Australian railway is concerned, it is
estimated that approximately £5,300,000 was
financed from investments of the notes fund in
Commonwealth securities, of which £3,428,000
may be regarded as representing profits' and
having been cancelled in 1920. In effect, debt
to the extent of £3,428,000 in respect of the
railway was redeemed from profits derived
from investments of the notes fund. The bal-
ance formed part of the Commonwealth debt,
and is being redeemed in the ordinary manner
from sinking-fund contributions.
* * *
Which has attained the greater speed, the
Queen Mary or the Normandie? —-1566.
At her tests the Queen Mary was estimated
to have attained an average speed of 32.84
knots per hour, while the Normandie’s highest
speed, which has hitherto constituted. a mer-
cantile record, is 32 knots ; it is understood,
however, that on one run the Queen Mary put
up a much better figure.
:J: * * *
I want to grow an evergreen hedge {not
privet )• as a breakwind and division between
garden sections. What plants are most suit-
able ? —662.
Cratcegus crenulata (hawthorn), white
flowers, "with red berries in autumn, grows to
6ft.; Duranta plumieri, with blue flowers and
golden berries, can be trimmed to 4ft.; Buxus
japonica, very stocky, can be trimmed to 3ft.;
Escallonia macrantha, crimson flowers, grows
to 4ft.; Viburnum linns (laurustinus), sweetly-
perfumed pink-and-white flowers, grows to 6ft.;
and the native Christmas bush, with red
flowers, which, by pruning after the flowers
fall, can be kept to Bft.
$ * * *
The leaves on my zinnia plants (which have
only just begun to flower ) are yellowing off,
and the plants withering; what’s the trouble,
and is there a remedy to save them ? 644.
Symptoms suggest rust. Remove all affected
leaves and burn them, then cut the plants back
to two eyes nearest the ground. Stir a httle
superphosphate into the soil near the base
of the plants and give a heavy watering to
carry the fertiliser to the roots. Badly-affected
plants should be dug out and the beds heavily
limed and left to fallow for at least a month.
* * * *
How to prevent silverfish eating wallpaper
near wainscoting and carpel under furniture ?
—1416.
Destroy all glazed magazines or papers not
in use, as these are the chief attraction for
silverfish. Clean the bookshelves, especially
crevices, with turpentine, and drop turpentine
down crevices near skirtings. Use a beeswax-
and-turpentine floor polish freely around the
edges of the room, on furniture and all wood-
work. The carpet is being eaten by carpet
beetles, small, dark, hairy caterpillars difficult
to see; mop the carpet with kerosene—it will
not damage the fabric. Sprinkle paradichloro-
benzine underneath and leave there. A chemist
will supply this eradicator.
* * * *
If Edward VIII. has no issue, who would
be next in line for the British throne ? —1495.
The Duke of York, as the heir presumptive,
and after him in order of succession are his
daughters, the Princesses Elizabeth and Mar-
garet Rose; should the duke have a son, how-
ever, the son would take precedence over his
sisters.
* * $ *
A windmill pumps water into a tank 100 ft.
above ground level. Would the tank fill up
more rapidly with the discharge pipe from the
pump entering at the bottom or at the top ?
1554.
When the tank is empty the rate of flow will
be slightly less with the discharge pipe enter-
ing at the top, since the water has to be
pumped to a greater height by an amount
equal to the height of the tank, but once the
water reaches the level of the discharge pipe
the rate of flow will be the same in both
cases. The difference between the mean rate
of flow in the two cases mentioned will depend
upon the vertical height of the top of the
tank from the ground as compared with the
height of the bottom of the tank from the
ground. Practically, there will be very little
difference in either method.
* * * *
(1) To what examinations does an applicant
for a position, clerical or outdoor, on the staff
of the N.S.W. Government Railways have to
submit ? (2) Subjects ? (3) Standard ? (4)
Age limit ? (4) When are examinations held ?
—1431.
(I) and (2) Candidates for employment in the
clerical division (junior clerks) are required to
undergo an arithmetical test consisting of 12
sums to be worked in 90 minutes, and a dicta-
tion test taken from a daily newspaper. Can-
didates for employment as junior porters,
apprentices, etc., are also required to undergo
arithmetical and dictation tests of a simpler
nature. The arithmetical test consists of 12
sums to be worked in 90 minutes. A knowledge
of long division of money, simple proportion,
decimals, fractions, etc., is necessary. Dictation
test for these candidates is taken from the,
departmental book of Rules and Regulations.
Successful candidates in the educational tests
are required to pass the prescribed railway
medical examination before appointment. (3)
For junior clerks, intermediate. (4) 15 to 18£,
except in the case of apprentices, where the
age limit is 17. (5) A register of applicants
for employment is kept, and candidates are
called up as required for examination.
* * *
My dahlias have just finished flowering.
How shall I handle them now, as I need the
plots for other flowers ? —-1502.
Cut the green top growth down to about
2ft. from the base—just above a cross-section
in the stem. A couple of weeks later dig and
place the clumps in a trench and cover lightly
with sandy soil. In July lift the tubers and
store them in a dry shed to harden. Be sure
to number or label them with variety, de-
scription and color. Where the blooms were
high-class, save some of the dried-out seed-
pods—you may raise a rare color or outstand-
ing variety.
❖
Best way to combat rust in carnation plants ?
How is it located, and its origin ? —1519.
Pick off affected leaves and burn them.
Plants badly affected should be dug out and
burnt and the soil thoroughly saturated with
a weak solution of permanganate of potash.
This disease ( Uromyces caryophyllus ) is a mass
of reddish-brown spores which increase rapidly
and are transferred by insects to other plants.
Cuttings from affected plants will also carry
the disease from one garden to another. Lime
dusted on the plants in the early morning
and spraying with weak solution of perman-
ganate of potash will check the spores. An-
other remedy is a mixture of sulphate of copper
(40z.), quicklime (30z.) and water (one gallon).
Apply this only in dry weather
H* H*
(1) Cause and cure for “die-back” in roses ?
Old and young bushes affected. Have been
kept watered, fertilised, etc. Previously grew
strongly and flowered well. (2) Cause and
cure for non-bearing of Lisbon lemon-tree five
rears old. Lime-tree, peach and quince also ?
—786.
(1) Die-back or black mildew is a sap
disease for which there is no known cure.
Pull out affected rose-trees and burn them,
then spray the ground with lime-and-sulphur
solution (trade strength). Do not plant roses
in that bed for at least 12 months. (2) Trees
which do not bear fruit for five years (provided
they are not seedlings) can well be discarded.
Probably buds or grafts were taken from
faulty-bearing stock.
* * * *
What is the school of impressionism chiefly
remarkable for, and how did it originate ?
1515.
It originated in France in the latter part of
the nineteenth century, and is chiefly associated
with the names of Claude and Edouard Manet.
The Impressionists claimed freedom from con-
ventional methods of composition and lighting,
and they attempted to portray broad impres-
sions, obtaining their effects by placing small
spots of pure color side by side.
Brief Answers.
M.E.B.: (1) You qre not quite clear. If
what you call “the common” is distinct from
the stock route the cattle must be kept within
its bounds. If they stray off the common on
to the stock route they may be impounded. (2)
Cannot say what the authorities would do,
but think it doubtful... .L.O.G.: The introduc-
tion and distribution of the lantana bug are in
the hands of the C.S.I.R., Division of Ento-
mology, Canberra, to which inquiries should be
directed S.W.D.: Cannot express an opinion
as to comparative qualifications. If you have
a relative or friend well acquainted with your
affairs it might be well to appoint him as co-
trustee... .N.W.: The claim should be made
for the husband on the prescribed form, obtain-
able at all post offices. A medical certificate
setting out the nature and permanency of in-
capacity should be attached. When a claim is
lodged, the department should be informed of
the medical instruction that the claimant
should not be told the seriousness of his case,
and this matter will receive full con-
sideration W.B.: The Reference Catalogue
of Current Literature (London price, £4)
G'.E.M.: Write to the shipping companies
R.M.: A. C. Benson and R. H. Benson were
brothers, being sons of a former Archbishop
of Canterbury. A. C. Benson was born in
1862 and died in 1925... .F.M.: Henry
Josiah Mayne, late manager of the North
British and Mercantile Insurance Co., Sydney,
is buried .in Waverley Cemetery, Sydney
A.O.B.: The Working, Heat-treating and Weld-
ing of Steel, by H. L. Campbell (18s.), and
Steel and Its Heat Treatment, by D. K.
Bullens (£2) P.C.: An old-age pension is
absolutely inalienable whether by way or in
consequence of sale, assignment, charge, exe-
cution, insolvency or otherwise howsoever. It
cannot be levied upon for payment of a debt
nor can it be pledged as security for a loan.
. ...R.A.: It is provided in the Nationality
Act that where a man ceases during the con-
tinuance of his marriage to be a British sub-
ject it shall be lawful for his wife to make a
declaration that she desires to retain British
nationality, and thereupon she shall be deemed
to remain a British subject... .C.D.: J. R.
Kinghorn’s The Snakes of Australia (10s.) and
A. S. Le Souef and H. Burrell’s Wild Animals
of Australasia (25s.)... .R.D.: Write P. Collas,
secretary, the Air Mail Society of Australia,
13 Holzer-street, Sandringham, Vic A.A.:
If the purchase was completed and the land
duly vested in the purchaser, and the owner
then erected a dividing fence, he can claim
half the cost from the owner of the adjoining
land. Cannot see what claim can be made
legitimately on you....F.B.: The French
Polisher’s Handbook (3s.) and Hasluck’s
French Polishing (Is. 6d.)... .J.N.O.D.: Cannot
trace the book.... V.R.: The work sells at
about 30s. retail. Dymock’s Book Arcade,
Sydney, would make an offer if allowed to
inspect H.B.: No monetary reward is
offered by any institution for such a discovery.
... J.F.H.: If you can show that your associ-
ation has suffered and is suffering substantial
loss through the appropriation of its title by
another organisation you could apply for an in-
junction. But this would be expensive and you
might not be successful. Better make a change
in the title... .C.M.T.: Try A. J. Miller, 258
George-street, or C. Villars, 163 Pitt-street —
both Sydney T.D.: Write the “Australian
Stamp Monthly,” Orr-street, off 78 Victoria-
street, Melbourne... .L.P.: Communicate with
David Moore, editor the “Dog World of Aus-
tralasia,” 6 Dalley-street, Sydney... .H.F.H.:
(1) Get in touch with Island traders such as
Burns, Philp and Co., Sydney. (2) No, the
Act does not cover them... .C.T.V.: Small Boat
Building, by Edwin Monk (17s.).. . .G.S.: Cives
servare means “to serve the citizens”....
W.A.F: Dalgety and Co., Goldsbrough Mort,
Winchcombe Carson and other woolbrokers,
etc., do business of this nature. You might state
your case to one of these firms....J.J.J.: The
Maintenance Act (Vic.) does not fix an age,
but, reading it in conjunction with the Child
Welfare Act of that State, it would appear to
be up to the close of the school age, 14
years. Write to the clerk of the court where
the order was made asking if the order dis-
closes the age, or, if not, what the age is....
F.H.B.: Write Lewis Berger and Sons (Aus-
tralia), Rhodes, Sydney... .W.R.S.: (1) From
Director, Commonwealth Works Department,
Adelaide-streel, Brisbane; 2s. (2) Write Ken-
neth Binns, Parliamentary Librarian, Canberra,
F.C.T C.S.: No special proportion; eight
times larger than the size of the intended re-
production is an average size... .M.J.C.:
Write Director, National Art Gallery of
N.S.W., Sydney A.R.S.: In the majority
of cases palliative treatment is sufficient. When
free to choose a surgeon seldom operates in
primary cases. By relinquishing an occupation
that entails long standing without exercise and
substituting one that involves a fair amount of
sitting the diseased condition may often be
overcome. Wear a local support, and dab
with liquid witch hazel after bath... .D.G.M.S.:
Otto’s Elementary German Grammar (5s.),
Harrap’s Modern German Grammar (5s. 9d.)
and Hugo’s German in Three Months without
a Master (4s. 6d.)... .M.C.: Write Empire
Crushing Mill, care Jones and Byrne, 259
Queen-street, Brisbane... .T.S.: Mt. Edge-
cumbe is 14 miles from Matata, Bay of Plenty
(M.L.). It rises abruptly to 2732 feet. It has
on its summit a lake of green water, and is
probably an extinct volcano... .G.A.H.: The
average annual rainfall over a period of 47
years at Gilgandra, N.S.W., was 22.65 inches.
. ...W.W.: Commonwealth Institute of
Accountants, 7 Wynyard-street, Sydney, will
supply syllabus and full particulars concerning
examinations on application... .J.R.: Obtain-
able from N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney....
A.G.S.: The foot trouble is caused by partial
collapse of the metatarsal arch or instep. Ex-
cessive body weight may be at fault, especially
if slippers or low-heeled shoes are worn to
any extent. Replace the latter with well-arched
footwear, avoid long standing during the day,
and bathe the feet in a warm soda bath at
night. Embrocation for relief of pain: Methyl
salicylate 2 drachms, oil of eucalyptus 4
drachms, olive oil loz., methylated spirits to
6oz. Shake before use. The patent arch sup-
port relieves strain on foot ligaments, and should
Ire worn pending examination... .R.B.S.: Get in
touch with Paper Products, Ltd., 45 Reservoir-
street, Sydney, and L. C. De St. An-
drew’s-street, North Melbourne... .S.C.: Write
Department of Labor and Industry, 142 Phillip-
street, Sydney E.J.T.: He was born June 27,
1846, at Avondale, County Wicklow, Ireland, of
an English family long settled as landowners. He
died October 6, 1891... .(Many others mailed.)


*p
K,
h
m
m
i
r
//:
\
V
If,
I
■I
m
ft
a
s»
«5
fl
svpm.
O/
'piEVELOPMENTS which, under ordinary circumstances, would nave
taken four years to achieve, have been made in twelve months 1 .
A.G.E. now offers receivers which are years ahead of others . . .
receivers which will astound you by their uncanny accuracy, their
mechanical perfection, their almost-human automatic features, their
graceful beauty — their thrilling powers of reception and reproduction l
Immediately you see the new Bandmaster Slide-Rule Dial, floodlit, and
with all stations grouped in states and countries; immediately you
experience the smoothness and accuracy of automatic vernier control
tuning, you # ll realise why the "Bandmaster" is the true modern receiver.
It brings a new sensitivity booster . .. "magic eye" tuning .,. Radiotron
metal valves . . . every important advance in radio science . . . and the
most charming climate-proof cabinets in Australia. See them for your-
self . . . and — above all — HEAR THEM 1
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE .... HOBART
W.A. AGENT: ATKINS ( W.A.), LTD., 894 HAY STREET, PERTH.
In the secrecy of A,G.E.’s associ-
ated laboratories revolutionary
discoveries have been made . • •
discoveries which change <Tie
entire complexion of modern
radio ... discoveries mow em-
bodied in an entirely new range
of -’’Bandan sister” receivers.
4L i
PRICES RANGE FROM
FIFTEEN GUINEAS TO
FORTY-TWO GUINEAS .
A.G.E. ARE AUSTRALIAN DIS-
TRIBUTORS FOR COLUMBIA
BATTERIES AND RADIOTRON
VALVES.
TjJ
r
r
L
m
D
U
■S3*
■1
////
MICRO • SENSITIVE RADIO


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Heroic Prince has run his last race.
Heavily backed for the Kororoit Hurdle
at Williamstown on Saturday, sharing
favoritism with Picador and King’s
Warden, the Heroic gelding fell at the
first flight of battens, and, having frac-
tured his near shoulder, had to be
destroyed.
Two years ago Heroic Prince won the
Australian Cup, beating Peter Jackson,
who had carried off the Moonee Valley
Cup in the previous spring. The Heroic
gelding lost form on the flat, and was
put to jumping in the winter of 1935,
with results so encouraging that National
honors this winter looked to be well
within the compass of “Home” Leek’s
chestnut.
The Kororoit Hurdle went to Peep o’
Day, a gelding by Windbag; he ran
down the pacemaker, Wapho, at the
home turn, and defeated Martext by two
lengths. Martext (Silvius —Volume) is
trained by Dick Bradfield for H. N.
( “Bert”) Leonard, who won the G.N.
Hurdle of 1931 with Cockcrow. Leon-
ard’s father was a V.R.C. committeeman,
and owned many noted performers.
There may be possibilities in Martext.
He had a hurdle race won at Moonee
Valley some time ago, but the jockey
took the wrong course.
Since Bill Burke disposed of him, Peep
o’ Day has scored twice for Street. Peep
o’ Day has 9st. 41b. in the National, but
Burke would not have parted with the
son of Windbag if he had thought there
was much chance of a victory at Flem-
ington in the first week of July. In 1927
Bill won the G.N. Hurdle for T. M.
Burke—a namesake, but unrelated —with
Coybeau. He hoped to win a G.N.
Steeple for L. K. S. Mackinnon with
Pactolus, but the Rossendale gelding
could not rise to such heights.
Pactolus, now in other hands, has lost
caste. Only four horses completed the
course in the Autumn Steeple at Wil-
liamstown. Pactolus was one of them,
but came home a dozen lengths behind
the place-getters. His National chance
is forlorn.
Oldhome, a hot favorite for the
Autumn Steeple, fell at the first
fence in front of the stand. There Santa
Casa and Richmond Tiger also came to
grief. Three more horses dropped out
at the mile post, Manlius baulking while
Banaree and Borcian toppled over ; Bor-
cian broke his neck. Williamstown is
now the only Melbourne course where
solid fences have not been replaced by
brush obstacles. It must follow the
fashion later on; uniformity is necessary.
Wei beck, Conde and Membo, who
filled the places in the steeplechase, are
in the National Steeple; but they are
of poor class. Welbeck (Violoncello —
Pleasant Days) originally belonged to
Bill Tindall; he has passed through a
number of hands since. Until recently
he carried the colors of John Edmond,
who won the Caulfield Guineas of 1928
with Balmerino. Though looking robust
-—perhaps too much so —old Membo
performed miserably. It is getting on
for two years since the former M.L.
jumper registered his last victory over
timber at Christchurch. The best that
can be said for Membo now is that he
is a safe conveyance.
Heroic’s Pride (Heroic —Kalyanni),
who cost Archie Crofts 1000 guineas as
a yearling, lost the Juvenile Handicap by
half a head to a 15-to-l pop, Dainty
Sue, a Drake filly that “S. A. Rawdon”
bred and sold for 120 guineas. Jim
Truskett, the owner-trainer of Dainty
Sue, is confined to his home with illness.
He has handled some good gallopers, in-
cluding Beeline, a Cantala Stakes hero.
Allendale, favorite for Dainty Sue’s race,
again began slowly, and his finishing
effort was altogether too belated.
Bert Foulsham, a son of old Ike, is
having a most successful time with his
Melbourne team. He annexed the Bay
View Handicap at Williamstown with
Sindicada (7 to 1), who is by Ornamenta-
tion (imp.), sire of the G.N. Hurdle can-
didate, Pooley Bridge. Both Sindicada
and Pooley Bridge belong to C. Dawson,
a Flinders-lane warehouseman. In a
race that was not truly run, Sindicada
made use of his light impost to slip away
from the field a long way from home
and scored handsomelv from the unlucky
Kitty O’Shea (8 to 1), with Red Ray
third. Highway, the favorite, looked
dangerous near the home turn, but died
on his run. As a young horse, Highway
belonged to the late F. J. Marsden.
Adam got the Gellibrand Handicap on
a protest against the first horse, Gay
Pop, for interference in the straight.
Each was 4to 1 in the ring. Gay Pop
chopped across Adam and collided with
Radiant Star, who became unbalanced
and dropped out of the picture. The
stewards suspended Morris, the rider of
Gay Pop, for a month. Adam was
named by Bill Burke out of compliment
to the late Adam Skirving, who managed
the stud at which the gelding was bred.
Palatinate, who was brought from
Maoriland by S. G. Ware, but now is in
the stable of H. Freedman, is on the
way to Winning-street. Made favorite
for the Beach Welter, he lost by half a
neck to Britebeard (6 to 1), who obtained
a vital break early in the race.
* * * *
Fireman will never reach the standard
attained by his stable-mate Contact, but
he can gallop. There was no fluke about
his victory in the Rockdale Mile at
Moorefield. Dan Lewis, trainer and part-
owner, put up an apprentice, Wallace,
and the lad, riding in fine style, waited
patiently on the rails until Prowler had
run himself to a standstill. In the end
Fireman beat the fast-finishing Buonar-
roti by half a neck, with Verlina half a
head away.
Fireman started at twos, though better
had been laid. He gave promise early
in his career, and he won the A.J.C. Gran-
tham Stakes at Randwick in the spring ;
but it looks as if a mile is as far as he
likes to go. Cid turned it up when he
could not head off Prowler, and Mafoota
is better suited at “six.” Kilfern was
prominent until the last furlong, and will
win in weaker company.
Pasha (6 to 1) surprised by winning
the Moorefield Handicap in a canter
from Perron and Confab. Perron had
such a break on the field at the top of
the straight that defeat looked out of
the question; however, he couldn’t or
wouldn’t “go downstairs.” Shortening his
strides descending the hill, he was beaten
at the Leger. Confab, wide out all the
way, having been cut off early, finished
on gamely to get third. He is to race in
Melbourne. The favorite, Bombus, was
almost the first horse beaten.
The Moorefield-trained Dameitta, in
height a pony, but thickset, made her
opponents in the Juvenile look like a
lot of brumbies. She went out at 9 to 2,
being drawn wide, but had sufficient
speed to be in the leading division early,
Clearing out at the two furlongs, the
daughter of Dunnottar scored by six
lengths from Mort, with Hwaiking, who
carries the colors of Queensland pas-
toralist E. Steele, half a length away.
Wee Joy was fourth, and came home
pretty well.
• • * * *
Orange-owned and -trained Poponaise
is in his tenth year,, and is the last of
Popinjay’s progeny to remain in the busi-
ness. But he proved in a division of the
Welter that he can still gallop a bit;
finishing fast on the rails, he, beat Cane-
grass by half a head, with Parcourir a
length off. He started at eights, Cane-
grass at sixes. De Graves, a son of
Burnewang, was backed from outside
odds to 7 to 2, but was never a possi-
bility. He looked big. Dazzle (5 to 1),
owned by Mrs. Dolly Clayton, got home
in the last stride in the second division,
beating Strathisla and Eversun. The
favorite, Bronze God, squibbed it. King
Charles was putting in long strides at
the finish, and will be worth following in
suitable company over a longer journey.
Cognac (2 to 1) had a well-deserved
win in the first division of the Kogarah
Stakes. He had been placed on a num-
ber of occasions. All the same, West-
bail and Goosalt were travelling faster
than Cognac at the finish. Glabrio (5
to 2), a big son of Windbag, had to be
ridden out to beat Sir Mart in the second
division, and Olis Tor (8 to 1) captured
the third division.
»{*
Silver Standard’s trip to Brisbane was
uulucky for Dalton, his trainer. The
son of Heroic —Silver Flower ran second
to Thalwyn in the Q.T.C. Moreton Han-
dicap, and he was second again, to
Verdun, in the Doomben Cup on Satur-
day ; Capris was third. Silver Standard
was favorite at 7 to 2 ; Verdun, who is
by The Verderer—Doraine, and is very
consistent (three firsts and a third in four
starts), was at 6 to 1. But Dalton cap-
tured the Flying Handicap with Heroic
Faith (4 to 1).
* * ♦ *
“Thormanby”: The Derby is to be
run at Epsom to-day, and it looks
as if the Phalaris sire Fairway may add
the big three-year-old event to the Two
Thousand and Thousand Guineas won
for him this season by Pay Up and Tide-
way. The Aga Khan has also a Fairway
colt entered, Taj Akbar, in addition to
Bala Hissar and Mahmoud, the last
second in the Two Thousand. Taj Akbar
is likely to start favorite,
* * * *
“S.G.”: The suggestion has been made
by Alec Higgins, the Australian who has
been a leading trainer in India for years,
that Indian owners should be allowed to
send racehorses to Australia during the
“off-season” in their own country —
March-November. He says it might mean
sporting potentates like the Aga Khan
being represented at important Austra-
lian meetings. It seems an excellent idea,
but Dr. Cumpston, head of the Federal
Health Department, says an old restric-
tion on the admission of stock from
India forbids, and is not likely to be re-
moved. In reply, it is pointed out that
the restriction does not prevent horses
that raced in India coming to Australia
via England, cases in point being Roubaix
and Pombal, who have been stud nota-
bilities for years, but this may not move
Dr. Cumpston. He has always been en-
thusiastic about preventing the introduc-
tion of stock diseases from Asia. Long
ago in Westralia he had a shipment of
camels quarantined because of a report
that traces of a disease known as surra
had been found among them. The im-
porter protested that it was just scare-
mongering, and politicians were of the
same opinion ; but the prohibition re-
mained.
* * * *
Hall Mark ran so badly in the King’s
Cup at Adelaide that Kellow’s first im-
pulse was to retire him from racing
straightway, but on learning from the
jockey that the chestnut had had his
tongue over the bit throughout, and
from the trainer that there was nothing
wrong with the horse, he decided to think
it over. Thoughts resulted in his leasing
Heroic’s best son to Herbert Thompson,
of Widden (N.S.W.), for stud purposes.
Hall Mark is still only a five-year-old.
:Jc * % *
“Sturt”; Agargil, winner of the valu-
able Goodwood Handicap at the Adel-
aide Cup meeting, is named, his owner
explains, after a “gill,” or rocky stream,
in the north of England. Local race-
goers, however, always pronounce it as
“a gargle” ; and, after his surprise win,
those who had been inviting each other
to have one were annoyed at not having
taken their own tip.
* * * *
H. P. Willis is dead in Melbourne. He
was a popular member of the V.A.T.C.
committee, and in conjunction with J.
A. MacLeod he raced several horses, in-
cluding Crescendo, with whom they had
hopes of classic successes. Crescendo
could have been sold at a high figure, but
wasn’t. At a later period MacLeod did
not hesitate to accept 3000 guineas for
the ’chaser Minterne, He had been
taught by experience.
Footbrawl
Two of the four previously unbeaten
teams went down in Melbourne on Sat-
urday. Geelong, fresh from its over-
whelming defeat of Melbourne, was con-
vincingly beaten by St, Kilda, which
scored 19-11 to 12-10, and Carlton lost
by a narrow margin to Richmond.
Carlton-Richmond was a great game.
After an even opening Richmond put up
a powerful performance in the second
quarter to lead by 35 points at half-time.
Carlton came in the third term and re-
duced the lead to seven points, but the
Tigers managed to keep their opponents
at bay in a sternly fought final term, and
won by 18-17 to 16-19. Thirty-eight
thousand people saw the match.
Collingwood and South Melbourne
easily maintained their winning sequence,
the Magpies defeating Essendon by
20-17 to 13-10, and South downing North
18-21 to 7-18. Footscray (13-11) scored
its first win for the season at the expense
of Fitzroy (10-14), and Melbourne (16-20)
met with little opposition from Haw-
thorn (11-11).
* * & *
N.S.W. Rugby Leaguers again proved
too hot for the Queenslanders at Sydney
C.G. They won 24-13, though they had
12 men in the second half: Thicknesse,
the certain scrum-half choice against the
Englishmen, had left the field with a
strapped shoulder near the end of the
first term. The Queenslanders, who’d
been knocked about without effectively
retaliating in the first encounter, brought
old Mick Madsen down to toughen the
scrum front row, and played the game
in the spirit of a battle. They might
have felt that if men were not sent off
for what was done in the first match they
could do anything without risk of be-
coming spectators. N.S.W. gave as rough
as it took, and towards the end when
a Queenslander went down he was
mostly happy to rest in the mud and
recuperate.
Queensland held a slight lead in the
neck-and-neck scoring of the first half;
10-9 ahead at the bell. Reardon and
Gilbert shone because they were attack-
ing more than defending ; in general play
the whole team did well. In the second
half the N.S.W. back line forced a
brighter spirit into the game. McKinnon,
who has never played better, broke
through the stolid defence frequently in
long, penetrating runs; Brown gave
glimpses of his uncanny sense of antici-
pation, and handled superbly; Ridley
often dashed across the whole field from
his wing to be in support of those two.
Their runs could not be stopped ; they
made the Queensland defence look tired.
Queensland scored only a try in this
half.
A Probables-Possibles curtain-raiser
between teams picked from the next-best
N.S.W. men was a muddled sort of game,
won by Probables, 23-8. The best of it
was Mork’s work behind the scrums
and Johnston’s display at lock. Both go
into the N.S.W. team to meet the Eng-
lishmen, Mork in place of the injured
Thicknesse and Johnston in place of
Prigg.
* * * #
In the Rugby Union match at Bris-
bane the N.S.W. forwards rucked too
solidly, the backs as a whole were a
shade too fast, and the combination
between the halves was too good for
Queensland. At half-time N.S.W. led
14-13 ; at the end it was 27-18: seven
tries to three. Richards, captaining the
side for the first time, was easily the
best back. The £350 paid by the spec-
tators (9000 or thereabouts) was a record
for a Brisbane inter-State Union match.
* * *
With the State team away in Queens-
land Saturday’s round of Sydney R.U.
provided surprises. Randwick, on top
a couple of weeks back, went down to
Parramatta, and University, though still
unbeaten, had to be content with a draw
against Manly. East’s margin over the
Gordon baby was made up of a disputed
try and the goal resulting, and the other
wooden-spooner, St. George, ran North
to three points. West, showing its finest
form, overwhelmed Drummoyne 33-6,
forwards being chiefly responsible. Scores
in the other games were Parramatta 25,
Randwick 8; Uni. and Manly 12 all
(three tries each, and nothing in it);
North 14, St. George 11 (North missed
Gibbons); and East 11, Gordon 6 (East
was lucky).
((Continued on next page.)
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Headwind Highweight: Radiant
Star or Sarokos ; next, Britebeard.
Keilor Handicap: Gay Pop;
next, Adam or Radiant Star.
Mt. Alexander Handicap: Kitty
O’Shea ; next, Gay Circle.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Granville Stakes: Rogerio ; next,
Sixteen Annas.
Auburn Handicap: Vista ; next,
Moonray.
Rosehill Handicap: Jovial Son ,
next; Fair Diana.
Flying Welter: Canegrass ; next,
Prowler.


M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Though no title was involved, “Snowy”
Clarke must now be accounted the best
featherweight in Australia, so decisively
did he defeat Micky Miller at Melbourne
on Friday. It went 15 rounds, but Blan-
don’s conqueror scarcely won a round.
Clarke comes from Westralia, and is cer-
tainly the cleverest little pug Westralian
boxing has evolved since Thorn was a
youngster.
* * * *
The news that Pete Sarron had won
the featherweight championship set
Maorilanders recalling the elderly cham-
pion’s visit to their islands six years ago.
He had three bouts with Tommy Dono-
van, and Was beaten each time —on a foul
at New Plymouth and on points at Wel-
lington and Dunedin. Had Donovan re-
mained in the game, he might have lifted
the world title, as did another Maori*
lander, Billy Murphy, long ago. On each
side of the Tasman, with few exceptions,
little men have been better boxers than
big men.
♦ * * *
The question of the admission of
colored boxers brought out under con-
tract was raised in the House last week
by Lane, the member for Barton. Min-
ister Paterson replied that the coons are
“admitted for only a specified period,
which seems a safeguard against objec-
tionable conduct.” Paterson is a placid
dairy-farmer from Victoria. The police
could inform him of cases in which ad-
mission “for only a specified period”
proved no “safeguard” ; also it would be
interesting to know what “a specified
period” is. Williams and Payne werei in
Australia for years, and negroes now fol-
lowing their calling in the country which
is supposed to have a White Australia
policy have been here for upwards of 12
months.
Footbrawl
“Stoush”: A Sydney writer has just
discovered that the Rugby Union lineout
is used for rough and dirty work. The
answer is that it always was, and so were
and are scrums and tight rucks if
referees are negligent and players un-
disciplined. In the old days of the Union
game in this country it was considered a
black disgrace for a player to be senl
off, and he generally had a bad time from
officials after. The feeling was even
stronger in representative matches, and
in some 15 games against N.S.W. and the
All-Blacks writer never saw a man senl
off. To-day the penalised player is
looked on in a different light.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: In spite of handicaps
the Rugby Union is forging ahead in
N.S.W. country districts. So much so
that the State Union has awakened to
the fact and will stage two matches with
a Western Districts team in Sydney—one
against the mid-week R.U. on June 24
and the other against Newcastle on June
27. Bathurst, Orange, Dubbo and Wel-
lington are to hold trial matches to
decide the team for Sydney.
♦ * * *
“Shore”: Gordon, Sydney’s new Rugby
Union club, is to trip to Tasmania in
September. The amateur code is now
fairly on its feet in the Apple Isle, and
has been greatly helped by visits from
Victorian teams. Now that the example
has been set there will probably be a
rush by N.S.W. teams to combine foot-
ball with a pleasant holiday in Tassie ;
the N.S.W. Western R.U. may follow
Gordon’s example later,
* * * *
“Front Row”: No one can say that
Morton, the N.S.W. and Australian
Rugby Union forward, is not a consis-
tent footballer. He has been selected
three times to go to Queensland with the
Ma State side, and each time an injury
in a club match has put him on the shelf.
When Morton was picked to go to South
Africa with the Waratahs the insurance
rates against his boarding the ship rose
perceptibly. That time the hoodoo held
off, however, and he was able to take
part in a tour that was a liberal educa-
tion in many things besides football.
* * * *
“Ellis Park”: The South African R.U.
is talking of sending 35 players to Aus-
tralia and M.L. next year, because the
programme is “the most strenuous ever
contemplated.” That seems to be coming
it rather strong. The Australian end will
not call for more than half a dozen
games as matters go at present. On the
1921 tour the ’Boks played in 23 matches
in both countries with 29 men, and suf-
fered nothing from casualties. It is not
likely the programme for the entire tour
will be heavier than that of the last,
and the expense of the extra half-dozen
players seems hardly justified. Worth
noting that the team is to be picked
before the end of May.
* * * *
“Stoush”: Having raised the pay of
its footballers for the inter-State and Eng-
lish games the Sydney Rugby League
has in addition crossed the hands of its
umpires with silver. For inter-State
matches the ref. will get a fiver, for
Metropolitan v. England £6, and for
N.S.W. v. England £7. Test matches
will be worth a tenner to the arbitrators.
No one deserves to be well paid more
than the referee, who takes on the role
of an outcast from his fellows every time
he goes on the job. Even on great occa-
sions he runs personal risk, as the punch-
ing of Tom McMahon in the members'
stand at Sydney C.G. after one Test
against an English team testifies.
* * * *
Gate”: The 26 English League foot-
ballers arrived at Fremantle in good con-
dition and, all going well, will play their
first match in Australia against N.S.W.
in Sydney on Saturday. It is eloquent
of professional Rugby conditions in the
North of England that so many of them
should be recruits from the English and
Welsh Rugby Unions. Two, Brough and
Morley, will, when the tour is over, have
earned the distinction of having played
Rugby Union and League for England.
The team is strong, and for Australians
all depends on beating the powerful and
forthright forwards.
* * * *
“Deadhead”: Sydney Cricket Ground
members are complaining that they are
being crowded out of their stand by non-
members. This is due to the privilege
conceded to the Rugby League, as a con-
dition of its winter lease, of getting all its
followers into the members’ stand.
Every time a team from England comes
to Sydney this League membership in-
creases vastly.
* * * *
“Nark”: There is always a catch lurk-
ing somewhere in the background. Re-
cently someone donated a noble cup to
“Come on, Fairy—another foot and you're over."
r be competed for by N.S.W. country foot-
L ball leagues. The grateful athletes were
r rushing in with their thanks when it was
I announced that an accompanying con-
i dition was that no strong liquor be drunk
; out of the pot under a penalty of £5 a
time. This negation of the very reason
for such a thing’s existence has staggered
the local football world, but a way out
will probably be found. There are
moments of triumph combined with
thirst when it will be worth a fiver for a
winning team to toast itself in the flowing
bowl.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Even worse than “North
End” suggests (B. 6/5/’36) is the down-
fall of England’s Aston Villa to Second
Division football. For London comic
writers are now turning dog on the once-
famous Birmingham club, and dragging
it into any argument whatever as a
symbol or type of failure —just as they do
with Oxford. The position can fairly be
indicated by supposing N.S.W. to become
so hopeless at cricket that at last it is
pushed out of the Sheffield Shield
matches, and told to go and play with
Westralia and Tas. Incredible? Yes;
but so was the other. All the same, I
am willing to bet that within two seasons
Villa will have fought its way back into
the upper grade.
Racquet and Bawl
“St. Colombes”: International tennis
matches outside Davis Cup clashes are
rarely taken seriously. No one then
will take much account of France’s
defeat of England at Auteuil, in which
both Perry and Austin went down, to
say nothing of Tuckey and Wilde.
Boussus capsized Perry and young Destre-
meau made a very convincing job of
Austin, whom he outplayed in three
straight sets. This chap, who recently
won both his singles in the Davis Cup
match with Holland, looks like a com-
ing champion. Bernard and Brugnon
were the other successful Frenchmen.
* * * *
“Boche”; Germany, one of the tips
for the Davis Cup this year, took Hun-
gary in its stride at Diisseldorf. In
Dublin the Emerald Isle had a hard go
with Sweden, all the matches running to
four and five sets; Ireland came out on
top by four matches to one. Two of
the biggest men in the game, now that
the American Stoeffen has turned pro-
fessional, met when Rogers, of Erin v and
Schroeder, of Sweden, clashed in" the
singles.
* * * *
“Let”: The Yankee team to meet Aus-
tralia in the Davis Cup has been changed,
Grant, who has been in rare form this
season, replacing Van Ryn. Van was in
the team as a doubles player to partner
Allison, and as Grant is a singles special-
ist it is likely that he and Allison will
look after that end of the show, leaving
the doubles to Mako and Budge. The
result will probably turn on the doubles.
* * * H=
“Top Spin”: My impression that
America will defeat Australia in the
Davis Cup round which begins on Satur-
day is strengthened by the forecast of
Ellsworth Vines that’ our men will easily
down his countrymen. Tilden has already
given the same opinion. The effect pro-
duced is akin to that following on the
verdict of the too-cheery medico who
promises to have one on one’s feet in a
few weeks when he knows and his
patient knows and each knows the other
knows that the game will be up for good
by that time. However, miracles have
happened before, especially in America.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Though the
A.L.T.A. has repeatedly broken its promise
to send a tennis team to Japan to return
the visit of Harada and co., it has had the
nerve to talk of asking another side from
Nippon to visit this country before the
courtesy of returning the first visit has
been complied with. True, the sugges-
tion comes from Japan, but this is prob-
ably because the Japanese have abandoned
all idea of the A.L.T.A. honoring its obli-
gation. They suggest two players. The
A.L.T.A. asks for four, and proposes
that they arrive in time for the Aus-
tralian championships.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Having sworn they
would ne’er consent to the visit of an
English team to Australia next year, the
English women tennis authorities are
now thinking of consenting. R. H. You-
dale, Australia’s representative in Lon-
don, has employed his honeyed tongue to
some purpose. The idea is that when the
English Wightman Cup team is in the
U.S.A. next year it will come on to
Australia after the cup is won or lost.
A lot remains to be done yet, but pros-
pects of a visit have firmed, as they say
on the Stock Exchange.
The Nineteenth Hole
Professional golfer Joe Cohen, dead
suddenly in Sydney at 27, was one of
the finest stroke-makers in the game, and
a fine fellow. Starting as a caddie at
Moore Park he won the P.G.A. Cup
while still a youngster. He had a habit
of leading good fields over the first
round ; then nervousness often got him.
He was with the P.G.A. team in America.
# * *
“Sandy Gallop”: Always keen on hav-
ing an Australian championship staged
on one of their courses, Queensland golf-
ing authorities have asked Mick Ryan
and C. W. Rundle to report on the suit-
ability or otherwise of Brisbane links for
an Australian meeting, the consent of
the heads in Melbourne having been
obtained. Their pertinacity deserves suc-
cess, whether they achieve it or not.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Von Nida retained the
Queensland open championship when he
came from an apparently hopeless posi-
tion to win by six strokes from the
Sydney amateur Waterson. Von Nida’s
aggregate of 297 was five over the course
scratch and 13 over par. He is the first
player to win the title two years in suc-
cession, and he will be a tough proposi-
tion in the Australian championships.
* * *
“Hamilton”: The Queensland four-
somes championship “went furrin’ ”
when Ivo Whitton and Mick Ryan, of
Victoria, carried off the title at Royal
Queensland links, with a card of 157 for
the two rounds. Pretty poor shooting for
such champions, especially as weather
and course conditions were ideal. This
is Ryan’s first Bananaland championship,
though Whitton has held the amateur and
open titles, to say nothing of pretty well
every other chaqrpionship in Australia.
Ryan has been an Australian and ama-
teur title-holder, and as he and Whitton
have partnered in many foursomes it
is small wonder they headed the field,
even if they had a comparatively off day.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne golfers are
stirred to fury by an account of “the
world’s worst golf course,” described as
“near Melbourne in Australia,” which
has appeared in the “American Golfer.”
The holes have been hewn out of the
solid jungle by aboriginal prisoners ; wal-
labies and bandicoots (giant rats and
dwarf kangaroos) dig up the fairways for
roots, and landcrabs rush off to their
holes with the golf balls. Overhead
hover hordes of hawks and kites ready to
swoop on anything the crabs have missed.
What with these and the insects “it is at
all times a case of every man for him-
self.” The tale is a highly-colored crib
from a Bulletin sporting paragraph
which appeared a couple of years ago
and purported to describe conditions on
the then newly-opened course at Darwin
—at the opposite end of the continent
from Melbourne.
* * Hi ❖
“Divot Digger”: Queensland profes-
sional golfer Denholm, just returned
from a golfing tour of his native Cale-
donia, voices the complaint, so often put
forward by The Bulletin, that Aus-
tralian courses are so ridiculously easy
in comparison with those overseas that
they produce hosts of dud golfers, while
those whose natural merit brings them
to the front have no chance of bringing
their game up to British or American
standards. Which is all very well, but,
after all, it is the dud golfer that keeps
the game going the world over. Even
abroad he does not tamely submit to
being ruled out by making courses more
difficult, and suggestions in this direction
never fail to rouse furious opposition.
One way out is to build two courses, one
for the expert who finds the glory for
the club, the other for the mug who
finds the money. This is already being
done in America, but not every club can
afford the expense.
Miscellaneous
“Lansdowne”; Despondency is always
being expressed in England about the
scarcity of young cricketers of inter-
national standard, but last season sent at
least one remarkable all-rounder leaping
into the limelight. This is Wellard, of
Somerset, who secured a place in Wis-
den’s “Five Cricketers of the Year.” He
is not young, being 33, and has been play-
ing for the county for five or six years,
but his last season’s record eclipsed all
his previous ones. He headed the batting
and bowling tables with 1198 runs and 97
wickets, but it was as a hurricane hitter —
“the modern Jessop,” they style him —
that he chiefly excelled ; he clouted 72
sixes during his year’s work. If he
can keep up that form, it is a safe bet that
he will be seen in Australia next summer.
He stands over 6ft. and “never had a
day’s coaching in his life.”
* * * *
“Headingley”; One certainty for the
English cricket side to visit Australia is
Maurice Leyland, who thus early in the
season has been collecting centuries, in-
cluding a 263 against Sussex. Apart
from his outstanding form Leyland has
been a decided success during his two
tours of Australia with Chapman and
Jardine, and he topped the batting aver-
ages against Woodfull’s last team in Eng-
land with 68.28.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: With five months or so to
to go before the Eleven for Australia
leaves England the experts are discussing
whether the Marylebone C.C. will agree
to the Australian request that the eight-
ball over be used in the Tests. In view
of Australia’s concessions in the matter
of the l.b.w, amendments it is felt that


WINCHESTER
,22-CAL. RIFLES FOR NIGHT SHOOTING.
MODEL 69.
Bolt-action Box Magazine Repeating Rifle, 25in. Round Barrel, equipped with
two Five-shot Magazines, one for short, other for long and long-rifle.
handle the regular or Super-speed cartridges. Fitted with elevating rear sight
and Lyman No. 422 Expert Four-power Telescopic Sight. Price, £B/10/-.
(Freight Paid.)
MODEL 67.
Single-shot Bolt-action. Shoots short, long and long-rifle regular and Super-
speed cartridges. Price
45/-
sK
■WINCHCSUR
69121
Standard Focussing Searchlight five-cell, 1500 ft. range.
Price (complete with batteries) 22/6
7924. Twin Service Headlight Lantern, ideal for
night shooting, three-cell, 350 ft. range.
Price (with batteries) 22/6
79124.—Five-cell, 1500 ft. range.
Price (with batteries)
32/6
COWLES & DUNN,
’Phone: M3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Board of Directors:
Sir James A. M. Elder, K.8.E., Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke, K.8.E., M.L.C., Vice-Chairman.
T. C. Alston, Sir Henry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.8.; H. G. Darling,
D. York Syme, Sir Ernest H. Wreford.
Chief Manager: L. J. McConnan. Chief Inspector: E. J. Osborne.
LONDON.
Boards of Advice:
—The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, P.C., Chairman.
Sir James Leigh-Wood, K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G.
The Right Hon, Lord Luke of Pavenham, K.B.E.
SYDNEY.—Sir Colin Stephen,
The Hon. T. A. J.
Hunter White.
Chairman.
Playfair, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., Y.D., M.L.C.
BRISBANE.—Sir Edward H. Macartney, Chairman.
Sir Wm. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
De Burgh B. B. Persse.
Branches throughout Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales and
Queensland, and at Hobart and Launceston in Tasmania.
Agents in all parts of Australasia, the United Kingdom and throughout the world.
London Office: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2.
Sub-branch: Australia House, Strand.
Extracts from Balance Sheet Dated 31st March, 1936.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200.000 £lO Shares fully paid up .. . .£2,000,000
600.000 £8 Shares paid up to £5 per share 3,000,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business)
Profit and Loss
-£5,000,000
3,000,000
300,000
296,913
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Customers’ Deposits
Other Liabilities
£8,596,913 7 2
37,769,619 14 1
1,130,144 7 2
Total
£47,496,677 8 5
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Balances at other Banks, Cheques and Bills in
Transitu, Government and Municipal Stocks and Bonds and other Liquid
Assets
Advances to Customers and Bills discounted
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc.
£13,743,243 15
32,446,662 9
1,306,771 4
Total
£47,496,677 8 5
and
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors Repoi t
Certificate, and the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors appear on the original Balance
Sheet, and are printed in the Annual Report, a copy of which has been posted to each
Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of five and a quarter pei cent, pei annum.
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
BiBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
| and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range /
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
a®
No. 3—HOLMS' “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
grip walnut stock. , £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASHMORE 8.8.8. L. GUN, 12G.,
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, leu
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and K.
fore-end pistol grip, walnut /
stock; weight, about 71b 3L14/IU/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 22—MIDLAND D.8.8.L. SPECIAL
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.. 32in. barrels,
left choke, walnut stock, >
pistol grip XlO/10/"
Carriage Paid.
No. 27— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever cross-
bolt, steel barrels, both choke, matted rib,
barrels and lug one-piece, 32in. barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip, tested for nitro
powders; weight, about 81b. £6/10/*
Price ’ 1
Carriage Paid.
No. 2—l VOR JOHNSON D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., 32in. barrels;
both full choke, top-lever crossbolt; Anson
and Deeley action. Tested for nitro -£g
powders; weight, about 81b
Carriage Paid.
SPORTING RIFLES
An outstanding Rifle, fitted
with Telescopic Sight , now
retailing at the low price of
£6/17*6
MOSS BERG .22
CALIBRE BOLT-
ACTION REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, IM-
PROVED MODEL 46
This is a remarkable
comb ination of a
superbly accurate Rifle,
equipped with a Micro-
meter Adjustable Rear-
sight and four-power
Telescope Sight, also
Micrometer Adjustable
Sight. The sales for
this Rifle have been un-
precedented, and in re-
sponse to demand we
have just landed an-
other large shipment
from A merica.
ĵ
No. 12 WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 67, for " 2 «*■
long-rifle rimflre cart
ridges; 27in. round steel barrel, one-piece
pistol-grip stock, safety bolt Mauser type,
ladder rear and metal bead front sight;
weight, about 4Jlb. /JCJ /_
Price '
Postage, 3/-; Other States, 2/6.
No. 40-SAVAGE BOLT-
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 4, 22 calltee r
, .shot, 24in.
round barrel, gold bead front and ladder
rear sights: takes 22 short, long or long-
rifle cartridges. Weight, sJlb. 77/6
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Price
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
ItAYMABKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
courtesy demands consent to the longer
over. One or two diehard journals see
in the Australian climb-down over the
l.b.w. business a cunning scheme to entrap
the guileless Englishman into the long
and enervating eight-ball over, with
disastrous results to his stamina. As to
that, after the Marylebone team had com-
pleted its tour of Australia before going
on to M.L. skipper Holmes said that the
eight-ball over made so little difference
that none of the players bothered about
it
* * # *
“Hotham”: The Victorian athletic
heads are asking the Olympic Council to
allow the Australian Olympic team to
compete in the English championships,
which are to be held, in July, before the
Games at Berlin. Only athletes would
take part —Metcalfe, Dickinson, Watson,
Woodhouse and Backhouse. The run in
public against strong opposition would
tend to improve the form of the Aus-
tralian competitors and add to their ex-
perience. There would be additional
expense, but funds are said to be
available.
, jJ: H* #
“The Gaffer”: The American colored
sprinter Owens, who is already credited
with doing the 100 yards in 9 2-ssec.,
has now been clocked by Yankee time-
keepers to have done 9 3-10 sec. For
quarter of a century the world’s best
for the 100, 9|sec., has stood in the name
of Jack Donaldson, an Australian and a
professional. Five other runners, includ-
ing our Jim Carlton, have been credited
with 9 2-ssec. Eddie Tolan, who will be
out here at the end of the year, might
do worse than have a shy at breaking
Brudder Owens’s figures, though he is
getting a bit long in the tooth.
* * *
“Spike”: Australian athletic heads
have authorised Jack Metcalfe to put in
his spare time at the Olympiad in per-
suading a team of Japanese athletes —
four —to visit Australia, beginning at
Brisbane in December. The Japanese
hold five Olympic records, four swimming
events and the hop, step and jump. It
is likely that the visitors will be selected
from the track and field division only.
* * * *
“Blade”: Now that Australia is send-
ing an eight-oar crew to the Olympiad—
only the third since the revival of the
Games in 1896 —there is talk of the dis-
patch of a crew as a regular thing to
future gatherings. A good idea, but there
is first a lot to be done. For one thing,
the Olympic organisation calls for
drastic reconditioning. Then some better
means than abortive levies of making ath-
letic bodies contribute must be evolved.
Rowing associations have been among the
most dilatory of the sport organisations
supposed to contribute under the levy
scheme. If the money they) supplied for
the four years since Los Angeles had
been depended on there would have been
no eight at Berlin. Australia cannot
always depend on private subscriptions.
* * * *
“Blade”: Japanese rowing is an un-
known quantity to most of the athletic
world, so there is room for surprise at
the news that the Imperial University of
Nippon is sending an eight to the
Olympic Games. The sport has a fair
following among the British in India and
in Singapore, Hong Kong and Shanghai,
but no Japanese crews have been heard
of as rowing in the China Coast com-
petitions, as might have been expected.
Still, the Nipponese have taken so kindly
to Rugby and to other sports one would
have thought hardly fitted to their
physique that there is no reason why
they should not make a good showing
in what is usually rated a game for big
men.
* # * *
“Ride Off”: As a result of the defeat
of the British polo team by a scratch
side which included two of the N.S.W.
Ashtons, two of the losers have been
dropped, and Balding and Hanut Singh
are to play against the Americans.
Hanut Singh is a member of the Maha-
rajah of Jaipur’s team. Though players
from the Dominions have represented
England in Rugby football, cricket and
athletics, this is the first occasion on
which one has appeared in a polo side.
It makes a precedent, and we may yet
see an Australian player or two figuring
for Britain against the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: I see a bowling cor-
respondent (B. 20/5/’36) raises the arro-
gant old contention that bowlers do not
allow travelling and housing expenses to
their representative teams because they
desire to keep their game on a purely
amateur basis. Tt should be enough for
these puffed-up folk that the Olympic
Council, the most rigid guardian of ama-
teurism in sport and games in the world,
permits countries sending amateur teams
to the Olympiads to pay their travelling
and housing expenses. Rugby Unions
and rowing associations also allow pay-
ment of expenses to players on tour.
With a close experience of bowls and
bowlers, I long ago formed the opinion
that the so-called zeal for amateurism
is nothing more than a keen desire to
keep bowling tours a close preserve for
the well-to-do and elderly who would
never be selected on their merits
as players. As to “bowler friends in
other States” being satisfied with this so-
called amateur outlook, I can only say
that in N.S.W. and other States there are
periodical attempts to have payment of
travelling expenses by associations per-
mitted.


days
aid
to sparkling
HEALTH and FITNESS
NEW
‘Pep’ In a Few Minutes
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
W\
m
m,
w
mm
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You cam put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
‘lt has
done me
a lot of
good 9
m
k
mm.
.4*l
E
ii
ONE
User says:
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast ; it has
lone me good
in several
ways. Had
Leon in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of \ east has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
Pv
m*.
A
a re'
Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
| est tonic pick-
tme-up known.'
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP’
TO-DAY—
Amazing Vitality To-morrow
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to he thin, nervous and lacking in ‘'pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slhs. to 15lbs. in. 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
ncio strength—hy simply taking Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
-—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be .refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories.
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
HO UlD.lJ-
mmiv
snowD^i
Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in Jf minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fug in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, S/6 and 5/9.


ft
%
5*
Si! I
•Hilll'Si
mi
iiHlB
mil
-A
nun n»
IHI
o
H
M E LBOURNE
Located beside Melbourne Town Hall, the
Victoria is Australia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Unrivalled cater-
ing. Moderate “Room Only” Tariff:
Singles, 4/- to 7/6 ; Doubles, 8/- to 16/-
per day. Write Department
Cl/ CV? BO for free illustrated
/nt/I Lg/W~ booklet.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I,
.-AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST NON-LICENSED'HOTEL
A New SAVAGE .22 Repeater
MODEL
TUBULAR REPEATING RIFLE
The gun you need -
—it gets the game •
[SI
A handsome gun
—an accurate gun,
one you will be proud
to own. Will give a life-
time of service. Why put up
with a “makeshift” when the
same money buys a Savage?
AT YOUR DEALER’S, or write
ASHER SMITH, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
IT HAS:
• Gold Bead front-
sight, sporting rear-
• sight, with elevation
and windage adjust-
• ment. Oil finish,
selected walnut stock.
• Quick ignition.
“ Takedown ” con-
• struction. Capacity
21 Short cartridges,
• 17 Long, 15 Long
Rifle. Weight, sJib. ;
• length, 43Jin., with
Savage perfection
• throughout.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Pacific Forests, Ltd.
This is a somewhat rare type of horse
among Maoriland forestry ventures;
from the beginning (July, 1925) it relied
on share-issues to finance operations. It
has done its job of buying land, planting
and maintaining pine forests thereon at
an average cost of £l2 3s. an acre to date,
after writing off some of the proceeds
of forfeited shares. All new shares issued
by the co. have been at 20s. (par). Each
£1 invested in the proposition therefore
has a bigger acreage interest than £1
invested in a forestry bond at the rate
of £3O an acre.
The co. announced that it would close
its share-selling campaign on Dec. 31,
1935. This was extended in special
areas to April 1 ; it was becoming
difficult to place further scrip. Since
then The Bulletin has had inquiries
from shareholders who state that they
have been circularised by Hodsons
Investments, Ltd., and that a Lon-
don investment “pool,” in the process
of being formed, is interested in the
shares. Two shareholders (in Victoria
and Queensland respectively) say that
solicitors have offered to buy Pacific
shares, one putting a price of 475. 6d. on
the scrip. The sudden demand for the
shares is interesting.
Following inquiries at Hodsons and
its solicitors, information was sought
from the Sydney office of Pacific Forests.
C. C. Sheath, the co.’s Australian repre-
sentative, has advised this office as
follows:
Pacific Forests, Ltd., is not connected
with Hodsons Investments, Ltd., other than
that the directors of this co. have granted
a six months’ option to Hodsons Invest-
ments, Ltd., to purchase 149,000 shares in
the capital of Pacific Forests at 20s. each.
I might mention that there have been
private dealings in Pacific Forests shares
at £2 each.
Quite apart from present offers, sugges-
tions which may be offers, or dealings
at what may or may not be a
reasonable price, the future of Pacific
Forests looks no less promising than
that of any other M.L. afforestation
enterprise, except that it could do with
more capital if best advantage of
existing opportunities is to be taken. If
Hodsons exercises its option, Pacific be-
lieves that it will be able to make advan-
tageous use of the money. If not, it
should see its present plantations to
maturity without much worry.
Pacific’s issued capital at October 7,
1935, was £299,427 in £1 shares ; there
was then £71,712 to come in on the scrip,
the amount paid up being £227,715. The
co. owed only £7713 to outsiders. It
owns 14,065 acres (all but 900 planted)
on its own account, and 3823 through a
subsidiary, the Waratah Pulp and Paper
Co., formed in October, 1928. All the
land is in the Rotorua district. Includ-
ing the unplanted 900 acres, the co.’s
own holding, with trees, stands at an
average of £l2 3s. an acre in the books,
including cost of land (mostly £3 ss. an
acre), planting, maintenance, plant, build-
ings, brokerage, preliminary and all
other exes. It was originally estimated
that £l5 would see the job through, and
that expectation looks like being realised.
Pacific owns 99,970 of the 100,000 £1
shares in the Waratah Co., the holding
being paid up to £74,977. Assuming that
this capital has been expended, and that
the pup has no liabilities, the average
cost of the 17,888 acres in which Pacific
shareholders are interested, directly and
indirectly, has been £l3 14s. an acre to
date.
There are no separate interests in
Pacific Forests. If has always been con-
trolled by shareholders, with no bond
money in it. Shareholders are entitled
to participate equally in any profits
which may eventually show up.
The oldest of the trees (mostly Pinus
insignis ) have now been planted nine or
ten years, and are reported to have grown
well. Over 10,000,000 are being culti-
vated. With the Whakatane Co. build-
ing its cardboard and pulp mill, and
N.Z.P.F. considering its next marketing
move, the Maoriland afforestation indus-
try is approaching its testing period.
There were never any doubts that the
trees could be grown ; but it has still
to be demonstrated that they can be
marketed profitably,
Tung Oil Co. to Liquidate
An order for the compulsory winding-
up of Australasian Plantations, Ltd., was
made last week by the N.S.W. Chief
"Quick, boss , No. 2 tunnel's collapsed and buried the foreman."
“ What! When did it happen?"
“Just before We knocked orf yesterday!"
Judge in Equity. The co. registered on
May 25, 1932, with a nominal share
capital of £75,000, and offered the public
4500 bonds (each representing an un-
divided half-acre of “picked” land in
Maoriland planted with tung trees) of
£3O each, bearing interest (when fully
paid) at 7 p.c. p.a. According to the
prospectus, no shares or debentures were
issued otherwise than for cash.
The co. raised £17,486 of share capi-
tal and sold 479 bonds in A series, and
117 in B series, total bond money re-
ceived being £15,360. According to the
Judge, it “succeeded in losing prac-
tically the whole of the share and bond
capital.” There was an effort in October,
1935, to convert the bonds into 7 p.c.
prefs., and to raise an additional £9840
by a share issue.
The co. paid 7 p.c. on the bonds as
contracted for some time, but interest
of £875 is now in arrears. The trustees
said that there was a deficiency of
£19,000, that the co. could not complete
purchase of the land, and that the pur-
pose for which it was formed had
become impracticable of attainment.
Harry Stokes, a trustee, visited the
plantations in February ; he reported that
the trees were stunted, that cultivation
was neglected, and that the nursery for
young trees was a failure.
The Governments wanted £10,000,000,
but are to get £9,000,000, the maximum,
in the opinion of the Commonwealth
Bank, which the investing market is
likely to digest. The nominal rate of in-
terest on the new loan will be the same
as the November, 1935, float —£3 15s.
per cent. But the issue price will be
£9B 10s., as against £99 155., and the
effective yield £3 17s. 6d., as compared
with £3 15s. sd. The amount borrowed
on the open market during the year
ended June 30, 1936, will have been
£16,500,000, as against £27,500,000 and
£22,500,000 in the two preceding terms.
For 1936-37 “about £20,000,000” will be
wanted. The lowest rate to date was
£3 os. sd. per cent., in November, 1934.
There has been a persistent rise since.
* * * *
The Canberra Government having
arrived at a compromise on the question
of cement duties (a tariff of 6d. a hun-
dredweight is to operate on British
cement until Dec. 1), there was a slightly
better tone in cement shares last week.
They are still low.
* * # *
The industrial sharemarket strength-
ened towards last week-end, though some
“tall poppies” very popular early in the
week lost part of their buoyancy. Milla-
quin Sugar and Fairymead stepped up
briskly, and brewery scrip was in de-
mand. Bank shares have slipped back
into the doldrums.
*l* -P
Australian National Airways, Ltd., was
registered in Melbourne the other day.
It will merge the aerial services of Holy-
man’s Airways Pty. (controlled by W.
Holyman and Sons, Union S.S. Co. and
Huddart Parker) and Adelaide Airways,
Ltd. (the capital of which is held by
Adelaide Steam and the Orient S.N. Co.).
Other services may be brought into the
merger later. At the outset the co. will
operate services radiating from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide, Tasmania and Syd-
ney. Nominal capital is £500,000. The
interests associated with the new float
indicate the determination of shipping
cos. to keep abreast of transport develop-
ments.
* * * #
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-iron
for the first 48 weeks of the current year
(which ends on May 31) is up 19.8 p.c.
on the same period of last year. Output
of ingot steel is similarly greater.
* * * *
Westralian gold production for 1935
was 649,0490 z. fine, valued at £5,702,000
(Aust.). Dividends of £1,124,918 were
paid (mostly from Lake View and Star
and Wiluna), and 14,692 men were
directly employed. The average yield
was 6.Bdwt. a ton.
Compared with 1903, Westralia’s peak
gold year, the 1935 figures aren’t so bad
from several points of view. In the third
year of this century, 2,335,4250 z. of gold
(average recovery 21.15dwt.) yielded
£2,024,152 in divs. —nearly four times the
gold for less than twice the 1935 divs.
But 1903 production Was worth only
£9,920,000 in Australia —the exchange
has made a great difference. Men em-
ployed then numbered 20,716.
* * * *
Natural Gas and Oil Corp., boring at
Balmain (Sydney), is going down to
5000 ft. if necessary. A fairly strong
pressure was met with at 4177 ft., but it
appeared to have been cemented off
when the casing was put down.
At present there is a pressure of
over 91b. to the square inch. The
co. has £4700 in hand, of which
new casing will call for £lOOO.
The 2s. shares recovered to Is. lid.
last week.
S*? iJC *
Mt. Lyell (Tas.) had produced
7988 tons of electrolytic copper
this year to May 13. Most of
the ore is coming from the West
Lyell opencut, which is cheaply
mined, but is of lower grade than
North Lyell. Production is ahead
of the 1935 schedule, and the
metal is firm in London.
In Melbourne last week:
The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board
of Works cash and conversion loan carried
£4 3s. 6d. p.c. The amount asked for is
£196,440 at par, and the term 15 years. A
previous loan (offered on April 1) at £3 17s. 6d.
p.c. went off at half-cock.
The yield on 1951-53 Consols (4 p.c.) was
above £3 17s. p.c. On 4 p.c. 1938’s £3 12s.
p.c. was obtainable.
Australian Glass ords. fluctuated between
925. and 89s. 6d., weakening towards the
week-end. The market has been preoccupied
with this stock for some time; its balance sheet
is about due. At 90s. the yield on a 13
p.c. div. basis is less than 2.9 p.c. If the
effective div. rate went to 20 p.c. the yield
would be 4.4 p.c. Such a distribution would
call for considerably more profit than was dis-
closed last year.
Broken Hill Prop., which dropped back to
635. 3d. on Thursday, showed 4 p.c. on a
12J p.c. div. basis.
Waldas Shoes sold at 425. Dunlop-Per-
driau strengthened to 17s. 6d. Yarra Falls,
A.K.M. and Beau Monde were firmer.
Emperor reported a recovery of 10280 z., a
yield of ll.Sdwt., as against 12.5dwt. in the
preceding month.
It was announced that Australian Gold
Development has secured a three months’
free option from New Pyrenees Alluvials,
N.L., over the latter’s Avoca (Vic.) property.
Placer and Anglo-Oriental abandoned options-
granted previously, and the shares slumped
precipitously. Dirt going 3gr. with a volume
of 25,000,000 yards has been mentioned.
Lancefield (W.A.) shares sold to 10s. 3d.,
the highest quote for two or three months.
Cocks Pioneer shares sold at Bs. (a
trifle higher) following issue of a quarterly
report showing a return of 819 oz. gold and
11 tons of tin, together worth £8791 (as
against £8744 in the preceding 14 weeks).
Last div. (Is.) was paid in December.
Central Nell G wynne announced a crush-
ing of 185 tons for 12940 z., average 14dwt.,
as against 15.5, 13.8 and 13.2 dwt. on the
three preceding occasions. The scrip steadied
around 30s.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOHS
“Jack of All Trades”
This film kicks off with a delicious
skit on high finance. Jack Warrender
(Jack Hulbert) lands a job as a waiter,
arriving at the mansion he is to work
at in full evening togs redeemed from
“Uncle’s.” Mistaken for a guest, he car-
ries it through, and pals up with a bank
chairman’s secretary (J. Robertson Hare).
Going home with his new-found friend,
the alcoholically-uplifted sec. heaves his
boot through his boss’s window.
Next morning Jack, using un-moral
suasion in re the thrown boot, attaches
himself to the bank’s staff, and bluffs
everybody, from the chairman down, that
he is “late of the Paris branch.” Then,
with magnificent audacity, he discusses
Jack Hulbert in “Jack of All Trades,”
at Sydney Embassy.
with the absent-minded chairman the
“Merivale Plan” (Merivale being a moke
he unsuccessfully backed). Neither he
nor the chairman knows what the plan
is about, the bank’s g.m. and the Board
of Trade take it up, conferences are
called, and, because no official will admit
ignorance of its existence, the plan gets
under way. Faced with a showdown,
Jack points mysteriously to the boot,
which the chairman had brought to the
bank in an effort to trace the culprit. Ah!
Boot production! That’s the plan. And
so it is launched—all out of nothing.
So far, so good. But Jack spills the
beans of his hoax to a female he is
enamored of. She turns out to be a
business woman. At the board meeting
at which he is appointed g.m. of the
newly-formed co. she exposes him, and
he goes out like a punctured tyre.
Up to this point the high note on
which the film opened had been well sus-
tained, with chuckles punctuating every
foot qf-helluloid. But theNscenarists
couldn’t keep it up, for after \ the anti-
climax it deteriorates into second-rate
slapstick, with Jack as a Communist-fight-
ing fireman in the Delilah’s/new shoe
factory (with true feminine business
morality she had him sacked and then
pinched his idea). An unconvincing—and
undeserving—rescue of the lady by Jack
from the blazing factory is the weak
ending.
But Hulbert is a delight, bubbling with
merry vitality throughout'. J. Robertson
Hare gives good support, and Athole
Stewart, Felix Aylmer, H, F. Maltby,
C. M. Hallard and Marcus Barron do
splendid work as financiers. Gina Malo
as feminine lead is a neck-pain.
Summed up, 70 per cent, is fine enter-
tainment and final 30 per cent, tripe. At
Sydney Embassy.
“First Offence”
With two or three bright youngsters,
a leavening of vaudeville patter artists,
plenty of motor-cars and a thin little
story about car-thieving in Paris for in-
gredients some producer or other (the
ads. don’t mention him) has in “First
Offence” produced an hour or so’s en-
tertainment. The Paris of the picture is
Paris. Not just the Eiffel Tower, the
Gare du Nord, the Arc de Triomphe and
a few bridges, but a Paris of road-
side cafes, pleasure-seeking old men
(foreigners) and pretty, laughing girls;
also cars and car-thieves. And the Mar-
seilles docks might very well be the Mar-
seilles docks.
The car-thieves are French —and artists
at car-thieving. They speak English with
a marked accent. One of them collects
ties from cloakrooms and bathing-sheds.
Another breeds rabbits. The policemen
(gendarmes it should be) are French, too ;
they chatter in French, or merely look
gendarmerish and don’t speak at all.
The heroine (Lilli Palmer) is French;
pretty and innocently naughty or
naughtily innocent. The hero (John Mills)
is English, but he merely has to drive
cars, love the heroine and look on.
The film, at the Embassy, in support
of Jack Hulbert, is an amusing trifle.
“Sinister House”
This film is correctly billed as a
“baffling mystery drama” —it has baffled
the authors themselves. In an effort to
create a super-mystery they have evolved
something about as lucid as Einstein ex-
plaining how relativity could be applied
to Major Douglas’s method of solving a
Chinese puzzle. The director also
appears to have become lost in a jungle
of loose-end situations.
A banker’s dog is shot, so a private
detective is sent for. The banker’s ward
is kidnapped, and her fiance’s chauffeur
is pinked off by one of several crack
shots in the house. Then the banker
gives 200,000 bucks to the kidnappers,
but fails to collect his ward, with whom
he is in love. His daughter’s fiance is
an ex-convict. He is exposed, whereupon
a second chauffeur is shot. Then the
detective falls in love with the banker’s
secretary, who comes gunning for him
J. Robertson Hare in “Jack of All
Trades.”
at midnight while the banker’s brother-
in-law (whose indoor sport is tatting)
takes another 50 “grand” to appease the
kidnappers. Then William (whoever he
is) is kidnapped or shot or something,
and the banker’s daughter or ward shoots
someone else, and the detective ex-
poses the banker as the villain in colla-
boration with his niece or ward or
daughter or secretary. Anyway, that’s
what the plot seemed like to this com-
mentator, who claims that he was slightly
sober.
Preston Foster is the sleuth. There
is also a large herd of Hollywooden
people who make up the required number
in the cast.
It might be possible, by swilling a
gallon of black coffee and working on
it with a brace and bit, to unravel the
mystery as to why a villain should send
Irvin Cobb in “Everybody’s Old Man,”
at Sydney Regent.
for a detective to reveal his villainy.
The proposition is doubted. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Follow the Fleet”
An Astaire-Rogers musicomedy, and
the partnership’s best to date.
“Bake” Baker (Fred Astaire) and
“Bilge” Smith (Randolph Scott) are
gobs who come ashore from their battle-
ship and pair up respectively with Cherry
Martin (Ginger Rogers) and her sister
Connie (Harriet Hilliard). “Bake” and
Cherry, old dancing partners, conduct a
casual courtship and tell each other off.
Everything seems set with “Bilge” and
Connie when a very merry widow grabs
“Bilge’s” apparently fickle affections.
Connie, who has put her wad into the
refloating of a boat left her by her grand-
father, which she intended for her
future husband and herself when he
leaves the navy, is broken-hearted, and
“Bake’s” virile efforts are thenceforth
devoted to diverting his pal’s infatua-
tion. He succeeds ingeniously, and stages
a spectacular show on Connie’s boat to
clear the debt on it, everything ending
as it should.
Shore settings are lavish, naval
glimpses convincing. An air of care-
free joyousness prevails, and there are
several wittily-worded songs done in the
Berlin manner, with snappy backchat.
Dancing, of course, is the chief feature,
and the twinkling feet of Astaire and
Miss Rogers set the film’s pace. Harriet
Hilliard, a striking beauty with histri-
onic talent and a fine speaking voice (she
even makes crooning tolerable), is, by her
performance, overdue for headlines in
her own right. Randolph Scott has a
satisfactory part, and Astrid Allwyn
vamps as to the manner born.
The film should please all but hypo-
chondriacs and wowsers. Previewed at
Sydney State,
“Whom the Gods Love”
By way of a change from Lives-of-
Schubert-and-Strauss this film turns to
Mozart. The main facts of the com-
poser’s life have been retained —his early
signs of genius, his poverty, struggles and
triumphs —but as a concession to dra-
matic and emotional interest a Prince
Lopkowitz (John Loder) has been intro-
duced who is violently in love with Con-
stanze, Mozart’s wife.
The theme has been well handled.
Stephen Haggard, making an allowance
for romanticising, is a quite possible
Mozart, and Victoria Hopper brings
beauty, sympathy and understanding to
the part of Constanze, whom Mozart
married after being jilted by her sister
Aloisia (Liane Haid).
Mozart’s music is skilfully blended
with the story, and the final scene, the
opening night of “The Magic Flute,”
is splendidly arranged. Sir Thomas
Beecham and the London Philharmonic
orchestra, together with grand opera
stars, having been co-opted for the pur-
pose.
Photography, settings and period cos-
tumes are excellent. The film falls
short of the greatness claimed for it —the
sense of unreality engendered by a film
world in which people can starve in garrets
and yet appear magnificently gowned and
bejewelled at the theatre is possibly to
blame. Nevertheless it is a good pro-
duction.
The producers deserve a word of praise
for refraining from overstressing the
Man-in-Black legend the temptation
must have been hard to resist. At Mel-
bourne Comedy.
“The Improper Duchess”
A glaring example of what happens
when producers fail to realise the differ-
ence between stagecraft and screencraft.
As a stage play it was very successful
in London and New York, but the film
version makes no attempt to get away
from stage settings and conventions and
is, in fact, merely a stage play photo-
graphed.
The result is a very dull show. Most
of Yvonne Arnaud’s lines fall flat, while
Hugh Wakefield, in the futile-idiot type
of part lately played so successfully by
Frank Morgan, is merely futile without
being funny.
Others in the cast add little to it. This
is also at Melbourne Comedy.
“It Happened in Paris”
Conventional story of the Rich Ameri-
can Playboy who goes to Paris incognito
to study Art and soaks the Old Man’s
account in Riotous Living in Montmartre.
Geo. Raft in “It Had to Happen,” at
Sydney Capitol.
There he develops a Great Love for a
Poor Art Student, who reciprocates. But
the Old Man discovers his whereabouts,
and on his Disclosing the Truth the Poor
Art Student Spurns his Riches.
Back in N’Yark he is hooked by a De-
signing Female. Breaking loose, he
Bolts Back to Paris to search, unsuc-
successfully, for Her. Designing Female
follows and arranges Immediate Mar-
riage. She orders her wedding dress
from a Famous Designer, who turns out
to be none other than Her. When the
Unwilling Bridegroom-elect comes to
view the dress, he meets again his True
Love. They vow ne’er to be Parted
Again, and the D.F. Writhes with Futile
Fury.
The acting doesn’t help.. John Loder
and Nancy Burne are the lovers. At
Sydney Lyric.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MAKING BLOOMS,
SLABS AND BILLETS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
492/31 is prepared to negotiate foj the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the in-
vention within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MACHINE FOR
UNITING A PLURALITY OF THREADS,
CORDS OR THE LIKE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth patent No.
7102/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
W'l,
i
The lure of Travel
When planning a trip to the East, or to any
country, the National Bank can greatly assist by
providing advice on a number of important matters,
such as Currency problems and the provision of
Letters of Credit which are readily accepted any-
where from Suez to Singapore, or in any part of
the world. Call, or write for further particulars.
BANK
ejf-
Branches Throughout Australia
17/12/36
BILLABONG
Auto Oiled —Enclosed Gear
WINDMILLS
DOUBLE GEARED
RAIN PROOF
DUST PROOF
LEAK PROOF
%
fm
m
Oil Once Every Twelve Months
Made in our own factories and only from
the finest available materials, Billabong
Windmills are built to give service that is
trouble-free and consistent.
Nothing but satisfaction can come from
owning a Billabong.
WRITE
for the new
Illustrated Catalogue.
DAHKS
391*403 Bourke St., Melbourne 324-330 Pitt St., Sydney
Some First Nights
In her opening Australian performance
at Sydney Con., Norda Mata brought
an almost incredible sinuosity and a fine
interpretative sense to the presentation
of a widely diversified group of dances,
ranging through “Dance of a Gnome"’
(quaintly beautiful), the “Death of Ase”
and the joyous “Solveig’s Song” in the
“Peer Gynt” suite to highly-interesting
“Impressons of Angkor,” created by this
German dancer after her visit to the
ancient ruined city in the jungles of
Cambodia. All were marked with deli-
cacy of feeling and often, as in “Anitra’s
Dance,” originality of treatment. Also
outstanding was the “Sacrale to Shiva,”
which conveyed with beauty and restraint
the tragic ecstasy of the human victim;
and the “Dance of a Priestess,” with its
blend of precision and abandon, made a
most attractive finale. Norda Mata’s all-
too-brief season is one that no lover of
the interpretative dance can afford to
miss. Margaret Chalmers, Ronald Wilkin-
son and Antonio Sorgato provided the
musical accompaniment. The programme
to be given to-morrow evening will in-
clude “Fragments from ‘Faust’ ” and
“Impressions of India.”
-I* *1- -I- *1-
Maurice de Abravanel mounted the
rostrum of Melbourne Town Flail as dic-
tator to the Symphony Orchestra in the
matter of the Brahms symphony No. 1
in C Minor, the G Major concerto of
Beethoven and the “Leonora” overture.
For some reason, the conductor with the
grave, clean-shaven face did not capture
the imagination of his audience as he did
at his appearance last year. The
applause was thin and perfunctory, and
individuals got up from their chairs and
began to make their way to the exits
even before the echoes of the last bars
of the final item died away in the re-
cesses of the auditorium. Jascha Spiva-
kovsky, on the other hand, had his
hearers with him in his rendering of the
piano portion of the Beethoven con-
certo, his contribution to the lovely first
movement being beautiful; but he lost
the allegiance he had gained when he
gave an encore which had evidently
been carefully prepared. Somehow or
other, the audience appeared to feel that
Jascha was forcing himself on them,
whereas in the concerto he allowed the
composer to tell his own story in his
own fashion.
The orchestra was at its best in the
long last movement of the Brahms sym-
phony. The audience was so vast that it
overflowed into the organ gallery, which
is as suitable a place for listening to
orchestral music as the front row of the
stalls in a theatre is for looking at a
moving picture.
The Little Theatre, run by the W.E.A.
in Adelaide, has had an ambitious shot
at an abridged version of “Romeo and
Juliet,” with Richard Ashley as hero
and Gwenneth Ballantyne heroine. But
perhaps the most important person con-
cerned was the producer, Agnes Dobson,
now resident in Adelaide.
Current Artbursts
James Quinn, R.A., one of the earliest
National Gallery Travelling Scholarship
winners, is displaying at Melbourne Fine
Arts Gallery the fruits of his labors over
a period of 40 years spent abroad. Of
recent years this painter has endeavored
to cope with modern differences of
opinion by introducing brighter back-
grounds, but it was his earlier work that
put him among the master craftsmen.
His accomplishment of “My Wife’s
Grandmother” is something solid and
genuine—a worn, old face against an
inky background. There is a feeling that
if strong lights were played on the
canvas more nuances of shade would
appear, as they do in Rembrandt por-
traits. A portrait of Hubert Wilkins is
impressive, but that of George Reid is
probably the finest thing in the show.
Something imaginative is “Rene the
Seeker,” a pictorial story of an ascetic, a
bearded young man who, against a back-
ground suggestive of his own philosophy,
ponders the reason for being. The por-
trait of the Duchess of York is dis-
appointing ; compared with the best of
Mr. Quinn’s canvases it fades almost
into the category of a pot-boiler.
“Lorna” is interesting. Character and
intelligence are cleverly reflected in the
face. She is a long, thin, young woman
with a compatibility of features, figure
and pose, her siim arms and hands and
her long, pointed nails as temperamental
as her little bud of a mouth.
*1- *l* 4* 4*
Sydney L. Thompson, a show of whose
paintings occupies David Jones’s art gal-
lery in the new George-street building,
Sydney, is a Maorilander who early fell
under the influence of Van der Velden,
and, like that austere soul (austere in
color preferences only), saw the world
through very sombre spectacles. Then,
after some years of artistic pedagogy in
his home land, Thompson went to live
in Concarneau, where Van der Velden’s
browns and blacks palpably wouldn’t
serve, and developed command not only
of a broad impressionistic style but of the
use of all the colors in his paintbox.
The pictures on show in David Jones’s
are almost all calculated to bring a whiff
of sunshine and fresh air into the dullest
room. Surest in touch, to this critic’s way
of thinking, are “A Breezy Day,” “The
Bay Horse,” “Breton Horses,” “The
White Horse,” “Covered Street, St.
Jeannet,” “The Yellow Door” and
“Canal from Artist’s Garden, Grasse,”
while the most daring flights of color are
to be found in “Peach Trees and
the Esterel Mountains” and “Cherry
Blossom, Grasse.”
An innovation in marketing is that the
catalogue gives t.-p. terms for every pic-
ture —20 p.c. deposit and the balance in
12 monthly payments.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Oils predominate in Arthur Murch’s
exhibition at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. His second Centralian expedi-
tion is evidenced by three very fine heads
of abos. of the Pentupui tribe, while
“Haast’s Bluff Range,” in sombre tones,
is.a delight to the eye. Quietness of color,
indeed, is a feature of most of the works.
“Still Life in Sunlight” is a well-con-
ceived study of an overturned bowl of
roses on a pair of shears, and Murch
demonstrates his mastery of reflected
light in “Figure in Sunlight,” a splendidly
wrought “Reclining Nude,” and “The
Faun,” a composition. In water-colors
“Hermannsburg Mountain” impresses,
while there is a neat head, in pencil, of
an old Pentupui man. “Repose,” a re-
cumbent nude, is so delicately done that
the outline is barely discernible,
4* 4* 4* 4*
There is strength in the paintings ex-
hibited at Melbourne Athenseum by
Hilda Rix Nicholas. This artist, who
studied abroad for many years and ex-
hibited successfully in Paris and London,
endeavors with marked success to inter-
pret in paint rural life in Australia. Her
draughtmanship is careful but never
labored, and in her brushwork there are
spontaneity and harmony. She treats ex-
periments in light with an impressionistic
technique. Some of her figure subjects
are bathed in strong sunshine ; others are
placed with all the brilliance concen-
trated on the landscape background,
“The Shearers” is a powerful study of
the interior of a woolshed. A youth on
horseback “Looking for Stragglers” and
a portrait of Richard Jeffries are arresting
works. Very different in character is
“The Fringed Parasol,” wherein force and
harmony of effort are neglected for
sentiment. Among the score of smaller
pictures a corner of an orchard filled
with fruit-blossom is an example of rest-
ful serenity.
•h d*
Nine artists who have collaborated as
the Plastic Group are holding an exhibi-
tion at Hogan’s Galleries, Melbourne.
They offer essays in stone, bronze, wood,
terra-cotta and plaster ; their methods are
imagination and the fun of caricature
rather than expression of ideas to a for-
mula. In some cases the conventions
have been tossed aside like a handful of
wet clay so that the bizarre could run
wild for its own sake. But the show is
interesting, and its occasional sensational-
isms are entertaining, if not always
stimulating. Ola Cahn exhibits a large
group including masks, proletarian
animals, birdbaths and bookends. Nell
Patterson displays half a dozen heads and
masks. Characteristic John Blogg
wood carvings are on view, and his
nephew, Val Blogg, has several promising
plaster pieces. An Australian coral fish
is an ornamental bronze by Moya Carey,
a glazed pottery head and a plaster mask
are admirable pieces of work by Chris-
tine de Gruchy and several character-
istic heads are Ruth Brilliant’s con-
tributions. Youthful enthusiasms and
originality stamp several compositions of
Edith Moore and Reg Cordia. Michael
O’Connell is an associate member of the
group ; his block-printed linens cover the
walls at intervals as drop curtains.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
M
ii u
;
m
U
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
SATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast- from.. 12/6
’Phone: F4141 (10 lines).
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
Sold
Kepr.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Twenty-three or twenty-five descend-
ants of Bishop Broughton will be in
Sydney for the Broughton centenary
celebrations, some of them coming from
Queensland and some from Moree. To-
morrow the great church festival will be
launched with a special service in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral. An open-air
demonstration by Sunday-school children
at the Showground and the pageant of
church history will be other demonstra-
tions. As Bishop Broughton founded The
King’s School, Parramatta, a garden
party will be held there on June 6.
The pageant in the Town Hall com-
mences with a tableau showing the
young Briton (St. Alban) refusing to
make sacrifice to the pagan gods
of Rome. Augustine, Patrick, Caedmon,
Thomas a Becket, Richard Cceur de
Lion, Cranmer and Laud will all appear
in this cavalcade. Later the pageant
will be confined ta the Anglican Church
in Australia, and will show the first
service conducted by the Rev. Richard
Johnson in 1788, the landing of Arch-
deacon Broughton, and later his installa-
tion as Bishop of Australia. One wonders
if his then Grace of Canterbury realised
anything of the extent of his brother
prelate’s see.
For the past week bishops for the
Broughton centenary have been arriving
hourly, or so it would seem, in Sydney.
The Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll must
have a bishop in every bedroom. The
visitors include Maoriland’s Archbishop
Averill and Mrs. Averill, the Bishop of
Tokio (Dr. Matsui), the Bishop in
Jerusalem (Dr. Graham-Brown) and the
Assistant-Bishop of Lahore, Rev. Dr.
Banerjee, Ireland’s Primate Dr. D’Arcy
and Bishop Hilliard, of Nelson (M.L.).
His Grace of Sydney held an afternoon
reception at Bishopscourt last week.
The beaded bubble was put on to the
week’s parties by J. Woolcott-Forbes.
It was a cocktail-dinner-and-dance
affair which started at 7.30 and ended
at 2 a.m. The Australia buzzed with
the revels. Roses and fronds of
fern were scattered o’er the dining-table
as though some gay young bacchante
had taken the final glance to see that all
the wineglasses were in order. An old-
world pleasance wasn’t in it with the
dining-room, gay with pink chrysanthe-
mums, roses and poinsettia, plus hang-
ing baskets of roses and fern. Lily-of-
the-valley waited for every woman and
a white buttonhole for every man.
The party was in honor of Mrs. Wool-
cott-Forbes’s birthday, and the last crumb
of the feast was a cake that would have
graced Olympia. It ran from palest pink
and green to snow-white; its first tier
was a golf course, its second a race-
course, next came a tennis court and
lastly a graceful, winged yacht—a re-
minder, no doubt, that the affair was
more or less of a farewell, as the guest
of honor leaves to-day for Honolulu.
An emerald and diamond necklet, ring
and earrings, all presents from her hus-
band, were thrown into relief by Mrs.
Woolcott-Forbes’s white chiffons, cut on
classical lines. A feature of this party
was the invitation to the presswomen,
not only to come themselves but to bring
partners and enjoy the fun. There were
more than a hundred guests, the Harry
Budges, the Bouverie Anderson Stuarts,
the Stanley Cricks, the John Garlicks,
the Phil Andreas couple, June Lloyd,
Doreen Watt among them. Percy Hunter
cracked a speech or two.
“Be Heir Minded” admonished the
“Flying Doctor” float in the Uni.
students’ procession, and this was capped
with a picture of the original flying
doctor of all, Mr. Stork. A Mr. Spooner,
in neck-to-ankle swimming togs com-
plete with topper, Shirley Temple on a
scooter and Zane Grey surrounded by
the query “What are the Wild Waves
Zane?” were woven in with reminders
of J. T. Lang. There was a tumbril,
too, of woebegone Uni. senators being led
to the guillotine. Hitlers, Mussolinis,
Haile Silassies were part of the fun that
for seven years past has been forbidden
in city ways. However, even the most
censorious couldn’t have blunted a blue
pencil on this procession.
Here is Loma Lautour, whose model-
ling is one of the features of the Women’s
Industrial Arts Exhibition. This was
opened by Lady Gowrie last week, and
is filling the Education Department Gal-
leries every day with women interested
in weaving, spinning and modelling,
demonstrators of which are always on
hand. Photograph of the sculptor from
A. C. Jackson.
Madge Macdonald, one of this week’s
brides, chose St. Andrew’s Church. Rose
Bay, for her wedding with Colonel
L. E. Worthington Wilmer. The colonel,
who comes from Taunton, Somerset,
knows his Australia. He was A.D.C. to
Queensland’s former Governor Sir John
Goodwin, and only lately resigned his
job as A.D.C. to the Governor of Tas-
mania, Sir Ernest Clark. Madge’s former
address was Clayfield, Brisbane. Future
home will be Cornwall. Her wedding
dress was dusty-pink wool crepe de
Chine ; her flowers brown orchids.
The pageant at the Authors and Artists’
Ball should be as spectacular as even
organising secretary Josephine Marks can
desire. Miss Marks, who has success-
fully arranged many pageants, has de-
cided that the Australian element shall
dominate the display. There is a prize
for the best representation of a book
written by an Australian author, carried
out in individual characters ; one for the
best group representing a picture in the
National Art Gallery painted by an Aus-
tralian ; and one for the best set arranged
from an Australian film written by an
Australian author. There are other prizes
to be won by the original and the
humorous-minded.
Once upon a time there were theatres
in Sydney to house real flesh-and-blood
actors. It sounds a fairy story as remote
as “Red Riding Hood,” but Hugh Ward
told a story which he said was founded
on fact at David Jones’s last week when
he opened the Pictorial Cavalcade of the
Australian Stage. He was surrounded
with proofs in the form of photographs
of Sarah Bernhardt, of Mrs. Brown-
Potter looking dewily innocent as
Camille, of Nellie Melba, of George
Rignold as Othello. The fact that this
gallery of the stars of other days brings
out is that the stage favorites of the
’eighties and the ’nineties were more than
good-looking, they were distinctive-look-
ing. Ada Ferrar, Maud Jeffries, Lillah
McCarthy and the rest breathe per-
sonality even through the faded photo-
graphs. Here is Carrie Moore, a laugh-
ing girl, and there Nellie Stewart, a dear
little dimpled drummer-boy in “Tambour
Major.” Here, too, Tyrone Power, Julius
Knight, Bland Holt and the never-to-be-
forgotten Brough-Boucicault company.
The place seethed with theatrical
identities, among them Nancye Stewart
and Nellie Bramley, Leslie Victor,
Andrew Higginson and Lily Titheradge
(Mrs. H. Knowles), Bert Bailey and
Jimmie Hazlitt. First-nighters like Mrs.
Eva Wunderlich, her dove-greys collared
in squirrel, Billy Hamilton and Judge
Backhouse. Mrs. J. C. Leete was among
the gazers at the Harry Ricxards panel.
“Joker” Byrne, famous for his “Boree
Log” recitals, hovered over the Gilbert
and Sullivan, telling how some member
of his family has been in every Austra-
lian G. and S. company. Even in a
recent amateur production, of “Pinafore”
a niece played Hebe, a part taken by
a forebear in the original Sydney cast.
Concert manager Jack Griffiths gazed
long at Florrie Young and at Nordica,
with whose Australian tour he was con-
nected. Nordica had one of the two
finest sets of emeralds in the world. Her
gems were only rivalled by a then Grand
Duchess of Russia’s. The great Cabochon
she is wearing in her portrait is the
dinkum oil. Bertie Lloyd, who intro-
duced Hugh Ward, Mrs. Hugh Ward,
David Jones’s Mr. Bradford, Mrs. Garnet
Halloran, blooming between lush furs and
a pill-box hat, Mrs. Crawford Robertson
talking to Judge Backhouse and receiving
an invitation to his Honor’s 85th birth-
day-party, Mrs. Peter Osborne, Diana du
Cane and hundreds more gazed and
laughed, remembering tags of old plays.
St. Joseph’s was the popular dance of
the week at the Trocadero. There ,were
about 1400 dancers, and the official party
was really two groups. At one table,
presided over by Mr. and Mrs. Martin
Hoare, were seated the representatives
of the Great Public Schools ; at another
secretary M. C. Rowe and Dorothy
Usher were entertainers-in-chief. Proudly
the cerise and blue was interwoven
in the table decorations, and each
woman guest in the official party found
a fragrant posy served on crossed silver
oars. Mrs. Martin Hoare’s magnolia
satin frock had a soft bow of the satin
from shoulder to shoulder; the silver
and white of Dorothy Usher went exotic
at the waistline and burst into purple
orchids. Mrs. Humfrey Henchman,
whose husband represented the Armidale
school, wore a cobalt-blue velvet coat
over pale-blue crepes. Treasurers Mrs.
C. M. Guiney and Mrs. A. D. Phillips
were a contrast in delphinium-blue and
old-rose satins.
During the week-end artist Lilias Gar-
ling (some of her works are hung in the
Women’s LA. show) became the wife
of Major John lorwerth (and he got that
name from Welsh forebears) Humphreys,
R.A.A.M. The wedding was one of
Longueville’s prettiest, its scene the
drawing-room and gardens of the bride's
riverside home. Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph.
The clubhouse of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron unfurled a banner to
Empire and ate a loyalty dinner last
Friday. Bertie Kelly made the speech of
the evening, and after dinner Commodore
Paul Ross handed over the prizes for the
1935-36 yachting season. Chrysanthe-
mums, Iceland poppies, marigolds and
other red-golds of autumn decked the
dining-room, while flowers in gentle
mauve colorings breathed femininity in
the reception-room.
The salads were not the only things
with delectable dressing. Mrs. Paul
Ross wore rich black velvet; Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s glinting gold lame had a tur-
quoise-blue velvet lining to its gold cape.
Graceful Mrs. G. C. Marquis, of Cal-
cutta, wore black taffeta; sister Mrs.
W. D. M. Taylor was in midnight-blue
lace. Mrs. O. A. Meyer, in mist-blue
oatmeal crepe; Mrs, L. C, Waterman,
who sprayed her black velvets with
orchids; Mrs. T. Maynard Furber, who
wore on her frock of dark-red lace a fur-
trimmed cape ; and Miss B. Parsons, who
came out on the sailing ship the Pamir
from England, were others noted.
The Australian boy no longer has to
depend for his weekly paper from over-
seas. The “Comet,” published in Sydney
every Friday, a home production from
beginning to end, will supply him with
a good seven days’ diet of schoolday
derring-do, of travel adventure in the
middle of the earth, in, North Australia,
in the Antarctic. It’s a good three-
pennorth.
Sister Kenny’s infantile paralysis
clinic at the Royal North Shore Hos-
pital is yielding promising results, accord-
ing to the interim report of the committee
of observation. Sister Kenny’s atti-
tude to any criticism directed at her
methods is one to be admired. She has
the dignity of one who knows her cause
goqd, and she is quite willing to wait for
commendation till her work has proved
itself.
Norda Mata, the German dancer, who
arrived in Sydney from travels in India
and China a week or so ago, gave her
first recital at the Conservatorium last
Thursday. Norda is tall, elegant and
fair; the movements of her arms and
hands are particularly graceful. She de-
signs all her costumes, and there were no
fewer than eleven changes on this pro-
gramme. In the Cambodian dances these
were accompanied by masks. However, as
one of her admirers murmured that she
had no fewer than fifty-seven changes in
her professional wardrobe, there will be
plenty for to-morrow night’s recital.
The German Consul and Mrs. Asmis
attended their young compatriot’s artistic
recital. The good-looking Greek Consul
was there, and Mrs. Norman Lowe, who
wore a bird’s wing in gold, flat to her
dark hair, brought her schoolgirl
daughter.
The country came to town for the wed-
ding of Meg Black to Robert Gill. The
bride is the daughter of the I. Y. Blacks,
of Wathagar, Moree, and the ’groom’s
home is Emu Creek, Walcha. True-
love’s knots of pearls clipped the
shoulders of the bride’s pearly satin wed-
ding dress. Her coronet was of mother-
o’-pearl leaves, and her tulle veil was
very long; so was her train. The fol-
lowers were Lallie Park, of Manilla, and
Mavis Cameron, of Moree, the one in
hyacinth pink, the other in hyacinth-
blue satin. Mr. and Mrs. J. Y. Black
held a reception at the Australia.
Pretty young Alison Stephens, who for
a short time was one of this city’s social
recorders (she’s a daughter of the late A.
G. Stephens), last week became the wife
of Dr. William Ferguson, of Wahroonga.
St. Stephen’s in Macquarie-street dis-
pensed the blessing, Elizabeth Bay House
the reception.
John Appleton, of the Players’ Club, is
busily studying prints of the Dutch
masters for his interiors and settings of
Jerome K. Jerome’s “Soul of Nicholas
Snyders.” As this is a fantasy in a Dutch
setting—a windmill on the Zuyder Zee
is the scene of action —Mr. Appleton has
his work cut out. The Junior Theatre
League will present the play at St.
James’s Hall.
The flowers that bloom in the spring
are in the picture for evening and late-
afternoon wear. News comes from Paris
of wide belts thick with daisies and
sleeves of a black satin suit ruffling with
orange poppies from shoulder to wrist, ot
buttons and buckles that are tight bead
posies frilled lacily in the Victorian
fashion. Perhaps because there is now
so much black, the streets promise to
glow like a tulip bed soon after the
shortest day is round the corner. Talk-
ing of flowers and color, try pinning a
bunch of yellow flowers in the lapel of
a black suit, picking up the shade again
in gloves and hat bow. It will make for
a brighter day.
Pleats are again upon us. Chiffon
dresses are pleated from neck to hem,
sleeves and all. Pleats are let in to the
back of evening capes and skirts. Even
the fine woollen dress shows pleated
sleeves ; and box-pleats, too, occur from
hem to neck, where they are rolled over
to form a collar. White pique crisps up
again in collar, cuffs and flowers. Hats
will be high and flat, about fifty-fifty.
Specks of hats arrive almost hidden by
flower fronts. Parma violet and bright
blue are an up-to-date color combina-
tion. If you are not as willowy as you d
like to diet yourself, try having your new
black evening outfit made with the dress
pencil-straight and the fingertip jacket
full, or a tunic coat fitting above the
waist and very full below. A swagger
finish to a tailored suit is a taffeta scart
in check, made double on the straight.
Tie in a floppy bow beneath the chin.


Your best
protection
against
infection
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOI' i*
JUJUBES
Universally
used for
almost 50
years . . .
6d. & 1/6 tin
Melbourne
Chatter
The hunting season has commenced,
but because the rains' are late the ground
is hard, and foxy hearts are filled with
false hope. Melbourne Hunt Club had
its first meet at Berwick, and finished up
the day by partaking of a hearty meal
spread by the master and Mrs. C. C.
Moore at Cranbourne. Mrs, Moore, who
was among the followers by car, had as
passengers her son Paddy and her sister-
in-law, Mrs. I. O. Gaze. Among the
huntswomen, Mary Baillieu and Moira
Pennyfather were the exceptions with
side-saddles and flowing habits.
All goes well with the National
Theatre movement. One evening last
week many foundation members and
other folk chosen by the committee as
being responsive to suggestion (or per-
suasion) were invited to Raveloe by Mrs.
Harry Emmerton to hear about the
objects of the movement. Gertrude
Johnson, the founder and hon. organiser,
took the lead among speechmakers, and
Florence Austral and John Amadio were
present as examples of Australian suc-
cesses in the world of music. The day is
still distant when the theatre will
materialise in bricks and mortar, but its
banking cache is growing satisfactorily.
Life members pay £6 6s. or £3 3 s.,
according to sex ; the foundation member-
ship list closed at 900, and there is now a
drive to collect a quarter of a million
members who will each pay Is. per year.
Among members’ privileges will be the
opportunity of getting a hearing for their
own or their friends’ talents.
The finger of destiny moves from one
hemisphere to another without any
trouble whatever. It was through the ad-
miration and friendship of the Spivakov-
sky brothers that a cable of about six
words (address included) was sent to
Czecko-Slovakia inviting, ’cellist Edmund
Kurtz to join his fellow-musicians in Aus-
tralia. Mr. Kurtz accepted. On his
travels he met an Australian girl, Bar-
bara Bellair, and soon he came to look
upon her country as the land of his adop-
tion. Last week he and Barbara had an
all-Australian setting for their marriage:
the rustle of the wind in tall trees, the
scent of gumleaves and the crisp moun-
tain air of Riddell.
The wedding was very quiet, for only
a few relatives were invited to the garden
ceremony at Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bellair’s
country home, Yaamba. On the lawn
beside the swimming-pool the slim bride
and her tall ’groom received a blessing
from the Rev. George Baird and inquisi-
tive glances from feathered folk who
refused to stand ini awe of a mere hand-
ful of human beings. There were neither
'maids nor best man, and the wedding
garment was no dream in satin and tulle.
Of woollen crepe vanessa, it was plainly
tailored and worn with a posy of gar-
denias and a matching hat of blue felt.
In the evening Mr. and Mrs. Bellair in-
vited a number of guests to dine and
dance at Massoni’s. The hostess was in
amethystine chiffon, caped, draped and
trained, and worn with a halo of twisted
green leaves. The bride exchanged her
a ft ernoon frock for a gown of haze-blue
crepe de soie, red roses were pinned in
her hair and more roses were clipped
into her antique silver flower-holder.
The Comedy was the only Melbourne
theatre which was not packed to the roof
on Saturday night. “Whom the Gods
Love” would have drawn more musical
folk but for the Celebrity Concert, the
first to break an orchestral drought of
many months. The Town Hall held its
3000-odd in the manner of the good old
days. Few international celebrities have
drawn such a crowd. It was a great
night, and as a farewell will be a tri-
umphant memory for conductor De
Abravanel to carry to America.
Up at the Comedy a large poster of
Richard Crooks was the most arresting
object in the foyer. Robert Best and his
lady were noticed in the audience (one
instance where Mozart in movie flesh
triumphed over Maurice de Abravanel
and Melbourne’s Symphony Orchestra).
Margaret Raws, in a Dutch halo hat,
and sister Dorothy, wrapped about in a
fur coat, were accompanied by their
cousin, Clive Corben. Mrs. Tom Hud-
son _ wore her envy-provoking dyed
ermine coat. Sitting together were Air
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Williams and
the Charles Turners, Mrs. Williams and
Mrs. Turner in long black velvet coats
with violets upon their lapels.
This foursome has taken part in
several good-byes for Dr. and Mrs.
Edmund Alcock. Mrs. Williams intro-
duced the Alcock and Nicholas families
in England. Mrs. Turner, a sister of
Mrs. Alcock, senior, was recently present
at the marriage of her nephew Edmund
to Betty Nicholas, and that of her niece
Shirley (Edmund’s sister) to Betty’s
father, G. R. Nicholas. Dr. and Mrs.
Edmund Alcock left on Monday night
by train for Sydney, where they will
board the Monterey for America, and
later cross the Atlantic in the Queen
Mary; for their home for the next few
years will be in England. An incidental
thrill of the Queen Mary will be its link
with Australia by radio telephone. Mel-
bourne relatives will not have to wait for
a cable from London, and even a radio
message won’t satisfy them when they
can hear Betty’s and Edmund’s voices
for three-minute stretches from the
middle of the Atlantic.
There were neither curious crowds nor
sensational scenes at the marriage of
Kathleen Rhys Jones and Dal Mein. The
bride is one of Australia’s very few movie
actresses (she had a part in “Heritage”
and played feminine lead in “Uncivi-
lised”), but hers was no movie-star wed-
ding. The guest-list was small, and 90
p.c. of the people who slipped into Mel-
bourne Grammar School Chapel for a
glimpse of the ceremony were close
friends of either the bride or the ’groom.
Margot Rhys, as she was known through
the movie camera, is the only child of
Mrs. Norman Kirton, of Perth, and Dal
Mein is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
Pulteney Mein, of Binbinette, St. Kilda-
road.
The wedding garment was of ivory
ring velvet, very plainly cut, with long
sleeves and a high draped neckline. The
veil of tulle was held in place by a coronet
of orange-blossom, and a narrow chin-
strap flowed over a second veil which
swept like an effervescence of train from
the waist. Phyllis Mein and Freda Con-
nolly wore Quaker maiden frocks of tur-
quoise velvet, with cuffs, pointed collars
and quaint little “eared” bonnets of
glazed pique. The bride was given away
by James Wilkie ; the ’groom was squired
by Bruce Abbott and lan Mein. After-
wards a very small dinner party was
given at Menzies by Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Kirton.
Broothorn made this photo, of Betty
Tait, who carries on the family tradi-
tions with her dramatic talents. Her next
part will be Gabrielle in “The Christmas
Present,” on the programme for Terence
Crisp’s Provocative Plays season at the
Kelvin Hall on May 29 and 30. Gabri-
elle is a somewhat despondent charmer
who wonders if she has made a bad
bargain in mending her ways and losing
her Anatol. Jack Wiltshire is to be the
unworried, unfaithful Anatol, who wan-
ders in and out of boudoirs, supper
parties and young women’s hearts
through several of Schnitzler’s plays.
Miss Tait, who is the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. John H. Tait, is engaged to
Colin McAuliffe, a clever young “good-
will-mission” delegate, now in America.
He is an old boy of Wesley, and has to
his credit several academic honors in
arts and economics. He and Nevil Stuart
(home again) went to the U.S.A. in
January on a lecturing tour approved
of by the Melbourne professorial board
which was assisted by the co-operation
of the National Students’ Council of
America.
There is an appetising variety about
the four Provocative Plays, One is a
fantasy, “His Sainted Grandmother,” by
Lord Dunsany; another, “Security,”
deals with life in a busy office, and gives
Leila Pirani a chance to show how she
reacts to the emotions of a capable but
sour-hearted typist. In “Happy Death,
Ltd.,” various people are interested in
a legalised and painless method of volun-
tary death.
A Broothorn photo, of Mrs. Stanley
Crawford, who this week says good-bye
to her father, H. A. Thomson, off to Eng-
land again after renewing Australian
friendships and musical associations. For
many years he was on the staff of Mel-
bourne Conservatorium. The Thomson
family has been divided for several years,
Mr. and Mrs. Thomson, a son who has
done well at science and a daughter who
runs her own cakeshop live in England.
Another son, lan, who was married last
year, is manager and instructor for the
Newcastle Aero Club. Donald, the dis-
tinguished anthropologist, who k flying
back to the Northern Territory by ’plane,
will return to Melbourne in December to
collect his wife and twin boys before
leaving on his overseas fellowship. Mrs.
Crawford, who is the wife of Captain
Crawford, secretary of the Civil Air
Board, has one predominating hobby —
golf, at which she has made rapid pro-
gress since she learnt to hold a club four
years ago.
To-night at the Palais the beat of the
band and the beat of the heart are re-
ciprocally related. Dancers at the Big
Business Ball can count their steps as a
help towards procuring an apparatus
(known to the initiated as a portable
valve electro-cardiograph) to be used at
the Children’s Hospital for measuring
the strength and rhythm of the heart.
The new machine will be particularly
helpful in examining cases of rheumatic
fever. This year’s ball, on the commit-
tee of which 50 business firms are repre-
sented, is the twelfth such function which
business has organised for charity.
The making of floral gifts for actresses
and feminine musicians has become an
industry—certainly the “stars,” whether
bright or the reverse, expect botanical
approbation at the final curtain of their
first night. But it is something new for
painters to receive bouquets at private
views. Several baskets, bunches and
posies were sent to Hilda Rix Nicholas
(Mrs. Edgar Wright) to wish her good
luck for her exhibition of pictures,
opened by General Brudenell White at
the Athenseurri. The joyous colors of the
flowers, the bright reds and yellows of
berries mixed with leaves of maple and
liquid amber caught up sunshine and still
life upon the walls. Since her marriage
in 1928 Mrs. Wright’s home has been at
Knockalong, Tombong, N.S.W., within
sight of the snowy foothills around Kos-
ciusko. Her husband and small son Rix
came down from their station home for
the exhibition. Rix is interested in his
mother’s work and in himself as a
model; he and his girl dominie are seen
on the walls in several pictures. Among
others present were the Edgar Wrights,
the Leslie Suttons, Mrs. Viva Sommers,
Dr. and Mrs. Newman Morris, Dr. Felix
Meyer, Prof. Skeats and Miss Haase.
The sort of holiday that provokes
brooding envy in the hearts of desk-
bound toilers is being enjoyed by Dr. F.
J. Bennell and his friends on the ketch
Oimara. The little 12-tonner has won
two Bass Strait races and weathered all
sorts of storms round the southern Aus-
tralian coast, but northern waters are
new to her. To be forewarned is to be
forearmed, and precautions are being
taken to make the Oimara’s hull inhos-
pitable for sea-borers,, which like no-
thing better than to snuggle into coral
scratches upon woodwork. Accompany-
ing Dr. Bennell on his health-recupera-
tion trip are Captain McDermott (navi-
gator), Don Banks, of the St. Kilda Yacht
Club, and Vere Hodge, of Randwick,
who has cancelled a trip to England to
visit the Reef again.
Numerous applications were received
from adventurous young men who
wished to make the trip. While one sec-
tion of the ship’s complement has been
allotted the job of guarding against
borers, another is responsible for the
attacks of stowaways. The genus, male
and female, is to be found in every
port; its members are ingenious and will
come aboard disguised as a bag of
potatoes or a barrel of beer if they get
the chance. The Oimara party intends to
be away from three to four months.
Swordfishing and croc.-shooting are on
their programme.
Complimentary to the artists but
slightly dangerous to their handiwork was
the crowd which seethed through the
Hogan Galleries on the Plastic Group’s
opening afternoon. There were so many
people that never more than two of the
exhibiting sculptors could be found at
the same time, and the models could be
seen only with the greatest difficulty. One
elderly lady lost count of time on her
journey to view Ola Cohn’s polar bear,
only to find that he had gone off to have
his photo, taken at the other end of the
room. It was a relief to see him arrive
back safe, a dead weight of stone in the
arms of his creator.
Glimpses were caught in the crowd of
Nell Patterson, one of the exhibitors, who
has only recently taken up the study of
sculpture. (Her mother was a sister of
Melba ; one of her brothers is ex-tennis
champion Gerald Patterson.) Mr. and
Mrs. M. P. Cordia were there to see the
work of their clever 19-year-old son Reg.
Another young artist, Edith Moore, was
showing her mother around. Edith re-
turned to Melbourne last year after
studying sculpture under the direction of
Henry Moore in Chelsea. Carmen
Winter’s silver foxes were noticed on the
shoulder-line of the throng, and a fleet-
ing glimpse was caught of a navy hat,
the property of Mrs. J. C. Cumberland.
A halo hat with a quaint brim edging
of angora bunny was all that could be
seen of Alison Reid.
A sudden crash soon after General
Chauvel’s opening speech caused a jump
en masse, but it was only a vase of
flowers. How there were no catastrophes
to anthropological figures and heavy
heads on long Epsteinish necks was a
matter of good luck rather than care.
But the gnomes of luck should look after
plastic artists, for the bizarre and the
grotesque, no matter how carefuly con-
ventionalised, originate with primitive
man and his desire to placate spirits and
demons which haunt his corner of the
uncivilised world.
What to do with growing boys and
girls need no longer present such worry-
ing problems. Even when the children
don’t know their own minds, their capa-
bilities and temperaments can be revealed
by tests conducted by the Vocational
Guidance Centre. And there is nothing
frightening about these tests —some are
written, others are manual and the results
are worked out with mathematical
accuracy.
During the first three years of its
existence, the Centre confined itself almost
entirely to juvenile cases. During the last
six months adults have discovered its
benefits. A square peg won’t fit in a
round hole. Environment is as important
as talent and temperament, for many a
nervous disease is caused by the wrong
job.
The Centre is recognised by the B.M.A.
and controlled by the Mental Hygiene
Council of Vocational Guidance. Director
of Education Mcßae is chairman, em-
ployers in business and industrial organi-
sations are following the lead of Govern-
ment and public schools and are realising
the value to their firms of psychological
testing of employees. The Centre does
its good work with a total staff of two ;
director R. K. Whateley and his clever
young assistant Peggy Freney. Funds
are scarce, as in every innovation;
but it is hoped that eventually a Govern-
ment subsidy will be available.


Personal and Missing Friends.
COOK. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
ALICE MAUD COOK, the eldest daughter of
Mary Jane Bloomfield, late of Sydney, deceased,
and widow of James Cook, or of her two
children, BEATTIE COOK and WILLIAM
COOK, last heard of in Queensland, is asked
to communicate with MESSRS. SLY AND
RUSSELL, Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street, Syd-
ney, who have information which may prove
to their advantage.
Legal Notice.
TO PATRICK J. GUILFOYLE and JOHN
GUILFOYLE formerly of High Street Wex-
ford in the County of Wexford and their chil-
dren or remoter issue AND TO the brothers
and sisters of John Guilfoyle the elder I , cr
of the said Patrick J. Guilfoyle and John
Guilfoyle late of High Street Wexford in the
County of Wexford and their children or re-
moter issue AND TO the brothers and sisters
of Catherine Guilfoyle nee Donnelly (otherwise
Donlon or Donellon) wife of the said John
Guilfoyle the elder and their children or re-
moter issue AND TO the brothers and sisters
of Patrick Donnelly (otherwise Donlon or
Donellon) late of Wexford in the County ol
Wexford father of the said Catherine Gudtoyle
and their children or grandchildren PGR'
SUANT to an Order of the High Court ot
Justice Irish Free State made in the matter
of the estate of Anna Maria Daly deceased
Reverend Daniel O’Gorman Nora Kelly and
Thomas W. Conway against Patrick Esmonde
all persons claiming to be next-of-kin ot Anna
Maria Daly nee Guilfoyle late of 10
Avenue Blackrock in the County of Dublin
Widow the Testatrix who died in or about the
month of August 1932 and particularly the
abovenamed Patrick J. Guilfoyle and John Guil-
foyle brothers of said Testatrix and their
children and remoter issue the brothers and
sisters of John Guilfoyle (father of the said
Testatrix) and their children and remoter issue
the brothers and sisters of Catherine Donnelly
mother of said Testatrix and their children and
remoter issue and the brothers and sisters ot
Patrick Donnelly otherwise Donlon or Donellon
grandfather of said Testatrix and their children
or grandchildren are on or before the 6th day
of July 1936 to come in and prove their claims
at the Central Office the Law Courts Dublin
or in default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
The 15th day of July, 1936, at eleven o’clock
in the forenoon at the Examiner’s Office of the
said Court is appointed for hearing and ad-
judicating upon the claims.
Dated this 24th day of April, 1936. —JOHN
HEALY, Examiner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 456 of 1936.
IN RE JESSIE JEAN WALGERS (formerly
Jessie Jean White) of Wagga Wagga the
wife of Henry George Walgers formerly of
Wagga Wagga but lately of Black Rock
in the State of Victoria Clerk
And the said HENRY GEORGE WAL-
GERS.
TO HENRY GEORGE WALGERS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JESSIE JEAN
WALGERS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion lor three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND, TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Seventh day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of May One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. FENN LUSEIER (Lusher, Young and
Stellway), Solicitors for the Petitioner, Fitz-
maurice Street, Wagga Wagga: by their Agent,
C. THROSBY YOUNG, 26 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 71 of 1936.
BETWEEN JOHN JOSEPH CLOUTT Peti-
tioner
And ANNIE PHYLLIS CLOUTT Re-
spondent.
TO ANNIE PHYLLIS CLOUTT.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOHN
JOSEPH CLOUTT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
H. R. HUNT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Q Martin Place. Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 696 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELLEN MARSHALL Petitioner
And JOHN MARSHALL Respondent.
TO JOHN MARSHALL.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN MAR-
SHALL has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Sixth day of May, a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 38 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
For the Apex Club’s Flying Doctor
Ball arrangements, 50 feminine fingers
stirred the committee pie. Kitty Gillies
was head cook, and Mollie Learmonth
ornamented the dish. Model aeroplanes
whirred overhead in their passage through
clouds of balloons, which latter dropped
as colorful rain upon the folk beneath.
A ballet directed by Rene Esler gave a
topical number illustrating an accident
outback, with station girls in trim riding
kit dancing along to lend assistance, and
the doctor arriving in an aeroplane.
Frocking was smart and colorful, with
a definite leaning towards purple and
mauve. Mrs. Karl Knapp’s lilac moire
taffeta was a highlight; its void back
was flanked by full sleeves, and a Mary
Stuart pleated collar ran round the neck
and down the front of the bodice. Kitty
Gillies swung loose drapes from her
burgundy French crepes ; a ripple of per-
simmon net frills undulated on Mrs. D.
McWhae’s lissome lines; Dorothy
Mosey’s heavy black satin was gay with
pink roses; streamers floated from the
shoulders of Mrs. Marshall Clifton’s
primrose chiffons; and Mrs. Max Rutter
finished her Grecian-cut delphinium
crepes with a silver-studded belt which
matched her hair ornaments.
The rose in Mr. C. W. Ferguson’s
buttonhole matched his wife’s bouquet of
crimson blooms when the couple cele-
brated their diamond wedding. A hun-
dred guests foregathered at their home in
Mt. Lawley, where a 60-candled wedding-
cake (made by the bride) held pride of
place at the tea. A piece of the original
cake and the vase and flowers which
had decorated it were in a conspicuous
spot.
The ghost of “The Late Christopher
Bean” trod the boards of the Repertory
Club under the direction of Mrs. Hubert
Member. Gwen Bickford’s playing of
“Gwenny” was one of the finest charac-
terisations given by a local amateur for
years. Tom Tracy (whose ability earned
him a six months’ tour with Sybil Thorn-
dyke and Louis Casson) made a high-
light of Dr. Haggett, and the supporting
cast fitted comfortably into their roles.
Pleiades Club members rallied in force
at the R.A.C. reception rooms for their
first dance of the season. Six girls, girt
with shawls and cartwheel hats, supported
Dick Cullen in a “Mexican Joe” ballet,
and later stepped a measure in natty
black costumes. Mylee Schruth’s cloth
of silver was in the dance committee’s
chair. Twins Dorothy and Beatrice
Baker caused confusion with their
exactly matching frocks of knife-pleated
apple-green georgettes; Jean Mendelson
tied a crimson sash round her red hail-
spot white organdie, and Stephanie
Evans’s ash-blonde hair, dressed as for a
minuet, topped china-blue crepe dotted
with tiny flowers.
Joyce Mortlock presided over the
Shakspeare Club’s social, held in the
chrysanthemum-decked Methodist Mis-
sion Hall. Billie Cohen and Irma Bed-
well arranged the programme. Phyllis
Caporn produced a scene from “Merry
Wives,” and Billie Cohen’s offering was
culled from “Two Gentlemen of
Verona.”
A continuity dinner at South Perth
celebrated the combined birthdays of
Mrs. Nat Lappin and Mrs. G. Lappin.
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Bateman provided
cocktails and hors d’ceuvres at their
home, sherry and soup were served by
Dr. and Mrs. Cass, Mrs. G. Mawley put
on the fish and chablis course, turkey,
ham and beer were to hand at Mrs. Max
Lappin’s and Mrs. G. C. Lappin supplied
trifle, coffee and liqueurs.
The Little Theatre emerged from its
long recess with Maeterlinck’s “The
Cloud That Lifted.” Eve Hyde as Sonia
and Edna Hopkins as Tatiana bore the
brunt of the work, Maurice le Courtoi
played the murderer Axel, and John
Hobson, who was responsible for the
production, made a brief appearance as
the police officer.
Sacred Heart School Old Girls held a
dance at the Stirling Institute, where trails
of flowers were festooned into a canopy
overhead. President May Holman,
M.L.A., was in the box seat with black-
and-white Oriental coatee over her black
lacquered satin.
Bettie Mitchell, B.Sc., daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Mitchell, of Woorooloo, in-
tends applying her brains to housekeep-
ing ; her engagement to Geoffrey Builder,
Ph.D., now of Sydney, has been
announced.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Basil Buller Murphy has been in Adel-
aide on a week’s visit from Melbourne.
The Moulden lady gave a cocktail party
at Lordello to introduce him to local
people. She tells the newspapers she will
be known as Dr. Basil Murphy; the
“Dr.” is an honorary title bestowed upon
her by Perth University in recognition of
the eminent services rendered to it by
Winthrop Hacked, her first husband.
The cocktail party was a cheery affair.
About 200 were present; there was danc-
ing in the ballroom, and there were
French snails on the menu. The hostess
was gowned in black chiffon em-
broidered with gold thread round the
hem, and a corsage posy of orchids.
That same day the Harold Bickfords
entertained a couple of hundred at their
charming home at Glenelg to celebrate
Mr. Bickford’s birthday. It is only a
few minutes’ run by car from Morphett-
ville racecourse; everyone started their
sherry there and then on to Lordello.
Mrs. Bickford chose a very becoming
toilette of mulberry-toned chiffon.
A good many Adelaide folk left for
Melbourne to be present at the marriage
of George Sangster, son of Mrs, Sangster,
of Adelaide, to Denise, daughter of Mrs.
Russell, of Toorak. It is rather hard on
our girls that so many eligible young men
go east for their brides.
Miss Margaret Jolly, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Jolly, of North
Adelaide, was given a dance by her
parents to celebrate her coming-of-age.
About 50 young people were present, and
roses and autumn foliage were used to
decorate the ballroom and dining-room.
The dance was preceded by a dinner-
party at the South Australian Hotel, a
family affair.
The christening of the Dick Duttons’
baby daughter Leonie at Hamilton,
seven miles from Kapunda, was quite
a vice-regal affair. Certainly no other
Adelaide baby can claim such a bunch
of celebrities for godparents. They in-
clude the Governor-General, Lady Cur-
zon (formerly Priscilla Weigall) and Mrs.
Anthony Chaplin (formerly Alvilde
Bridges); others were Joan Goodman
and Warren Martineau. Mrs. H. H.
Dutton and daughter Helen went down
to Anlaby for the christening, and so
did the parents of Mrs. Dick Dutton,
Mr. and Mrs. V. M. Newland. Mr. and
Mrs. H. C. Cave and their daughter Mary
also motored down to Anlaby for the
event.
At Morphettville races a tremendous
amount of black was worn. Exceptions
were Mrs. Allan McFarlane, who was
in an amethyst tweed suit, a felt hat to
tone and silver-fox furs. Mrs. Reginald
chose a Gloucester-green wool ensemble
and a black hat. The Moulden lady wore
a beige cloth swagger suit, a fawn-fox
fur, in which she pinned a spray of
orchids, and a beige hat banded with
brown.
A cheery dance at Mount Osmond
Country Club saw the third of Dr. and
Mrs. H. W. D. Stoddart’s fair daughters
make her debut. Judith had a backing of
four other debs, in Isabel Goode,
Jeanette Wallman, Rosemary Brooks and
Margaret Mitchell. The ballroom was
decorated with chrysanthemums and
autumn foliage. Supper was served in a
large marquee, the color scheme being
pink. Mrs. Stoddart was in a smart
toilette of orchid-mauve georgette;
Judith, who is tall and auburn-haired,
looked well in an off-white brocade cut
on princess lines.
A surprise University engagement is
that of Barbara, daughter of Prof, and
Mrs. J. B. Cleland, of Beaumont, to Mr.
La Nauze, lecturer in economics. He is
the son of the late Captain C. A. La
Nauze and Mrs. La Nauze, of South
Perth (W.Ai), and he was 1931 Rhodes
Scholar. Miss Cleland is taking a
science course.
Musical Adelaide was well represented
at the civic reception tendered to Eileen
Joyce in the room of the Lady Mayoress.
As Mrs. Dunstan is on a brief visit to
Melbourne, the Lord Mayor did the
honors ; Miss Joyce wore a black tailored
coat with cape sleeves and a close-fitting
black toque. The Corinthian Club, of
which John Dempster is chairman, gave
a morning-tea for Eileen.
The 1000 country children in Adel-
aide for the Junior Red Cross centenary
week were all invited to meet his Ex-
cellency and Lady Dugan in the grounds
at Government House, One small child
started a riot for vice-regal autographs,
and the Governor and his wife worked
at top speed.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark have re-
turned from their visit to Canberra. They
were charmed with its autumnal beauty.
Winifred Lawler has been awarded
what used to be called the Orient scholar-
ship, now known as “the British passenger
lines’ free-passage scheme for graduates.”
She leaves in October, and goes to study
at the Sorbonne.
Joan Scott Power and her parents are
going for a trip to Europe. The daughter
being as keen on music as the father, and
similarly gifted, they should have an
interesting time studying musical methods
and hearing bigwigs of the musical
world.
Parties for Joan have been given by
Joan and Ruth Orchard, Marweet Court-
hope, Mrs. Dickson Millen and Mrs. J. E.
Thorp. The Dickson Millens (she was
Mary Weedon, of Launceston) have
come to live in Hobart.
Mrs. May Brian Gaynor, formerly
May Poulett-Harris, has returned after
many years to visit her sister Violet in
the Speck and her son in Sydney. The
lady does journalistic work in London.
To raise funds for improvements to
the sports grounds at Hutchins School,
parents and friends put on a bridge
shivoo. Tables were set out in the
school Memorial Hall, decorated with
glowing autumn foliage and chrysanthe-
mums. Mrs. L. E. Gibson did the secre-
tarial job.
Broadland House Old Girls’ Asso-
ciation staged a successful dance in the
school Assembly Hall, Launceston.
Gwenda Coogan was secretary to the
committee —her last effort before setting
off with her sister Jean in the Ormonde
for Britain. Decorations were all in
autumn tonings; the president, Miss
Rooney, wore a color scheme to match.
Mary Sharland, bound for London,
got off her ship at Gibraltar and visited
Madrid, Seville, Ronda, Cordova and
other storied places in Spain. She joined
up with the Ormond Birches at Granada,
and spent a week there.
The Bush Balladry Competition.
The entries were numerous —in the
neighborhood of 200 —and came from
all parts of the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. But the standard reached in
the great majority of cases was not as
high as had been hoped for.
Although no limitation had been
placed on the form or scope of the word
“balladry,” much of the verse sent in,
while often not lacking in merit, had
little or no claim to that title.
A ballad may be in narrative form or
not, serious or humorous, but it must
have swing and forcefulness. In a phrase
once used by A. G. Stephens it is some-
thing that must “stick and stick.”
A lyric on a bush theme, however
tuneful, can by no stretch of imagination
be considered a ballad. Nobody ever
fashioned a ballad in a sonnet or a string
of them or any such solemn-sounding
metre, and a ballad in the modern style
of composition known as “free verse” is
something unthinkable.
There were examples and near
examples of each and all of these among
the entries. This is not to say that there
was not some good stuff, virile and true-
to-label, among the contributions, but
there was not much. Yet, beginning
with Gordon and continuing, after a
slightly barren period, with Paterson,
Lawson, Ogilvie and others, Australian
literature has been enriched with a deal
of admirable ballad poetry.
Is the vogue fading? There is plenty
of scope for it still, plenty of subjects
for ringing rhyme, plenty of episodes and
phases of life for a good craftsman to
put into swinging verse.
The prizes have been awarded as
follows: —
First (£15) to C. H. WINTER, Bluff,
Southland (Maoriland), for “Brumby
Green.”
Second (£7) to OSCAR WALTERS,
Maritana-street, Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
for “Old Dan.”
Third (£3) to LILLA GORMHUILLE
McKAY, Goulburn (N.S.W.), for
“In the Wind and Rain.”
The verses will be published in due
course. And there are others, not among
the “placed,” that will find their way
into the Abo. pages.


Smart... Rainproof...
Leather Lumber Jacket
mm
mm.
made
from the
finest
Chrome
Leather
in sizes
36 to 44.
PRICE,
67/6
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET - - BRISBANE
j
COM IKC to SYDNEY ?
Then wire or write lor reservations at Petty's
Hotel. Petty's the oldest established oi
Sydney's Hotels, will please you. Its quiet
comfort and convenient position make for an
enjoyable holiday. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive, 18/-.
PETTYS
HOTEL York St. Sydney.
4
that
with
Bunm
Get down
burrow
Bunni-Di is a practical improvement
on all other Rabbit Killers —you can
carry the Brickettes on the saddle —
you need no expensive machinery—
you cut labour costs and you get bet-
ter results. Just light the Brickette
wick, and place in burrow mouth.
Write for our testimonials which are
increasing every day.
Chief Distributors for Australia:
D. G. OFFICER PTY. LTD.
90 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
INTERSTATE.
N.S.W.: CHARLES CLARKE & SON,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TV. A.: LEWIS BATEMAN, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
S. AUST.: HARRIS, SCAREE, LTD.,
Adelaide.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Recent police reports, sup-
porting the indignation of an archbishop,
show how civilised Brisbane is becom-
ing. When I first remember the northern
capital it was a quiet little town in
which the sight of an exposed ankle was
enough to cause a sensation. And when
two women visitors on an Orient liner
openly smoked on deck there was a
cry to save the young from the sight of
such scandal. The police (and the arch-
bishop) now have discovered places from
which girls stagger out sozzled at night,
even near the Criminal Investigation
Branch, where the detectives’ suppers
have been disturbed by ladies shouting
loudly in spite of the valiant efforts of
their gentlemen friends to calm them.
Once the force discovered a “young
woman, a member of a well-known
family,” asleep in a doorway, her clob-
ber more or less neatly piled beside her,
her carapace exposed to all the
bane winds that blow and her young
mind obsessed by the delusion that she
had gone to bed. She had been attend-
ing a dance in “one of these places near
the C.I. Branch where parties take place.”
The local Sherlock has deduced that,
while there are no real night clubs in
Brisbane, “there are places where supper
and a drink can be obtained until a very
late hour.” Surely not after legal hours.
% * He *
J. A. Porter, just dead, went North in
1920 to take over the “N.T. Times,” which
he ran with the help of his capable wife,
a Chinese printer and an Australian the
color of the ace of spades. A bitter war
followed the foundation of a Labor
paper, the “Standard.” The unions were
organised against Porter, and Porter
organised the Chinese and all other
likely material against the union paper.
The unions won, but Porter became a
Government nominee on the Darwin
Council, of which he was several times
mayor. During his terms of office, the
air was full of accusations that he
diverted advertising from his erstwhile,
rival. Even with his lonely death, the
feud did not end. Witness the “Standard”
record “that, as usually happens with
those who are traitors to their class,
Porter was cast off, and finished up, if not
in dire poverty, then on the breadline,”
and was buried “with only four friends
at the graveside.”
* * * *
“East Point”: Don’t tell me we aren’t
up to the mark in official methods. The
last “N.T. Government Gazette” con-
tains a notice:
OFFICE ABOLISHED—The office of
Inspector of Agriculture and Curator of
Botanic Gardens, £396-£446 is abolished as
from the close of the 31st March, 1936.
OFFICE CREATED—An office of
Superintendent of Agriculture and Curator
of Botanic' Gardens, £522-£558 is created
as from the Ist April, 1936.
It is progress like this which will one day
make the North a smiling land of farms.
* #
“Tchillin”: Pleasure rather than
despair is usually associated with a pay-
able one-pound note, but one survivor
of the old Queensland Treasury flimsies,
which ended in 1911, has come back for
its last cashing with tragedy written
clear upon its faded paper. “Dear ,”
the writing runs, “By the time this
reaches you I shall be slumbering with
the great majority. I cannot face the ——■
any longer after my great confliction.
Believe me, I am yours, darling, .”
The Christian names of the man sender
and of the woman to whom it was ad-
dressed were given. On the margin was
written in another hand a brief record of
another but apparently less poignant
happening: “The last of a million! ” Do
people still express their feelings upon
our paper currency, I wonder? Years
ago I knew an old chap who always
wrote upon his rent-payment: “Blast
your miserly soul!” Nobody seemed to
mind it.
* % * *
“J. Want”: John Flynn of the Inland
will go down in history as the first man
to organise the two-way radio telephone
tor lonely settlers. He began work on
the job 12 years ago, so that with pedal
generators women in the outback are
enabled to talk to their neighbors over
tens of miles of sand. Now he proposes
an extension of the system which will
link up children on remote stations to
teachers in towns, and will enable them
not only to hear their preceptors but to
ask questions of them. He says that this
scheme will be undertaken as soon as the
medical section of the A.I.M. has been
properly provided for. Why it should
be necessary for a mission to take the
“ Don't splash the water round so much, Dave — that's goller do the lott
of us!”
work in hand when there are Education
Departments and a rich Post Office in the
land it is difficult to say. It is an objec-
tive on which some of the G.P.O. sur-
plus might be worthily spent.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Zane Grey while in Queens-
land should take a peek at Dynamite Joe,
of Lake Nash, who has been disturbing
the sleepiness of the Georgina border
side. He seems to be an excellent
subject for heroic prose. Disagreeing,
over the woodheap, with one of his
friends about a lubra, Joe reached
for the nearest Kelly and struck his
adversary with it in the stomach. The
adversary, rushed by ambulance ’plane
to Cloncurry, is dead. The local police-
man arrested Joe and ironed him, but
Joe still had enough dynamite in him to
propel himself to a yard 25 miles away
where he called on the local native
gentry and asked them to be courteous
enough to return the irons to the boss.
He then lit out for Queensland, but has
since been recaptured and extradited to
the N.T., where, in a bigger and better
set of irons, he is awaiting trial. .
The Queensland 9th Battalion, sprung
from the old Moreton Regiment, whose
red coats were a feature of pre-war Bris-
bane life, has placed an order with
Leslie Bowles, of Melbourne, to design
a memorial to fallen members. It
is to cost £5OO, and will consist of a
central panel carrying the names of
those who gave their lives, flanked on
each side by bronze figures of Diggers
in uniform. It will be set up against a
marble background in Brisbane’s Anzac
Shrine.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Archbishop Wand opened Vida
Lahey’s exhibition of paintings in the
Union Trustee Building. Mrs. Wand,
in black and white, came along, and
there was a big roll-up of artists and
writers.
Ninety-eight years old, still making
fine lace, knitting, sewing and reading—
anything but modern fiction, which she
doesn’t like —Mrs. Emma Gill faces the
world as gaily as she did when she came
to Brisbane 73 years ago, a young bride.
Her first dwelling was in a home-made
calico tent at Three Mile Scrub, and the
young woman, just arrived from Shef-
field, was terrified of the blacks in the
near-by camp. The family lived for a
time on the spot that now is Logan Vil-
lage, and then moved to the Beaudesert-
road. William Gill, a Gladstone grazier,
is the only son.
There was a big day out for the Social
Service League, and the money will be
spent on warm clothing for women and
children. About 80 players gathered for
bridge in, the afternoon at the Lady
Mayoress’s room, the Lady Mayoress
and daughters Dorothy and Ina among
them. At night, over 200 dancers flocked
to the Continental Cabaret at the Blue
Moon organised by D. de Vines and
Dorothy Henry. There were demonstra-
tions of tap and other dancing.
Mrs. J. C. Wand is the president, Mar-
jorie Wilson vice-president, Mrs. Lance
Jones and Lilian Walsh joint hon. secs,
for the ball in aid of St. Oswald’s Hostel
which will happen at Finneys’ on Aug.
18. Roy Clarke is minding the money-
bag. Peggy Warren has arranged a
tennis tournament for June 5 to help
defray the expenses, and each member
of the committee has promised to hand
over 10s.
- Sweetie Robinson —now Mrs. Cecil
Lang —gave a tea party at Rowe’s prior
to packing up for Innisfail, where her
husband will manage a bank. The
Langs are just back from England and
America, and it seems a pity that Mrs.
Lang’s model frocks should not have had
an airing in a few of the capital cities
before she trekked for Innisfail, where,
if reports- are true, waders and a mackin-
tosh are sometimes the only wear.
Roma (W.Q.), though dry as a bone
after a spell of drought, was as bright as
ever for Show Week. A bunch of Bris-
bane girls were there for the gaieties.
The golf club held it's annual ball, and
four debs., Betty Fletcher (of Kureenya),
Phillipa Hoskin (Avenel), Vera Richard-
son (Pine Hills) and Connie Whip (Mon-
clova), made their bow to Lieut.-Gov-
ernor James Blair.
The Show Ball —the annual function
arranged by the Western Pastoral and
Agricultural Assocation —was a brilliant
affair, and was held in the Hibernian
Hall. R. S. McGoech, the president, and
his wife, one of the best-dressed of the
western matrons, received the CJ. and
party.
The Albert St. Methodist Church,
where her own parents were married,
saw the wedding of Sheilah Logan,
younger daughter of Mrs. G. D. Logan,
of Clayfield and Cassilis, Richmond, to
Eric Stanley Hancock, second son of Mr.
and Mrs. J. Henry Hancock. The Rev.
Percival Watson and the Rev. H. M.
Wheller tied the knot. Archie Day was
at the organ, and Lloyd Logan gave his
sister away. She wore ivory satin, with
pearls trimming the sleeves and the
swathed waistline. Her Brussels lace veil,
which had been worn by her mother, was
mounted on tulle, and extended beyond
the train of the bridal gown. It was
caught to the head with clusters of lily-
6f-the-valley, and the bouquet was of
lilies—of-the-valley and orchids. Three
’maids, in frocks of orange moire,
attended her. They were Norma Logan,
Joan Taylor and Agnes Philp.
The midnight premiere of
“Thoroughbred” will be held
on the same night as the ball
at the Belle Vue arranged by
Mary Maguire in aid of the
St. Vincent de Paul Society.
There is to be supper—very
Continental for Brisbane.
In addition to the show at
the Belle Vue, there are to
be a ball, plain and fancy
dress, for school children,
and a sacred concert, at
which all school choirs and
orchestras in the metropoli-
tan area will take part, to
help the St. Vincent de Paul
appeal. Mrs. Basil Bergin is
arranging a poster show also,
and the resulting cash will
swell the fund. The appeal is
for only £soo—little enough
to ask for after 40 years of drudgery in
relieving distress. The money is wanted
to provide the society with permanent
premises.
The Queensland Red Cross Link, only
formed last September, is out to help the
Red Cross with any peace activities, and
at the moment is concentrating on rais-
ing funds for an aerial ambulance. The
first effort is to be a bridge party in the
Lady Mayoress’s room at the City Hall,
and Mrs. Mervyn Bunting is the con-
vener. One of the committee assisting
her is Del Mullin, who recently gained
her pilot’s license.
Guiders and Commissioners had a
cheerful night out at the home of Mrs.
Tregear when they rallied in honor of
Jean Milne, the Brown Owl of the Clay-
field Girl Guides, who shortly will
become Mrs. Colin Spence. The decora-
tions were purple and gold, and the
flowers roses and chrysanthemums.


• for every
socket in every
receiver
ullard
The Master
Valve
M
i
Mullard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Geelong House,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Vi
V!
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY
... ..j ■. :
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
STORES ,
MA4357.
Carter
ftEMEMOTOR
A NEW
"B" ELIMINATOR
MODEL 180 GENEMOTOR.
PRICE, £4/15/-
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
MODEL XI FILTER.
For use with
Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin
No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA) Limited,
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
INPUT:
Ov. 2.2 amps.
OUTPUT:
180 v. 30ma.
RADIO NEWS
THE DIATHERMY SPECTRE.
BY
DON B. DNOCK.
The radio receiver of to-day is a very
sensitive piece of apparatus, and to suit
modern requirements is in most cases
designed to include short-wave as well
as normal broadcast coverage in the tun-
ing range. The question of what is de-
scribed in technical circles as “radio in-
ductive interference” is much more acute
over the short-wave regions than in the
200- to 600-metre broadcast range, and
such interference can be so bad that the
listener despairs of the short waves —he
may even condemn them as useless.
Often a receiver is used under a severe
handicap. The location may be one with
numerous electrical circuits in action in
the neighborhood, with lifts, vacuum
cleaners, refrigerators, electric irons, etc.,
all contributing to the general high noise
level; and sometimes on a public high-
way trams and even motor-car ignition
are enough to wreck reception com-
pletely. Where the source of electrical
interference is contained in a field rela-
tively close to ground, it is possible to
eliminate a lot of the noise by using
aerial systems at a good elevation over
surrounding objects, and with shielded
or noise reducing leads-in. Additionally,
a simple line filter as a buffer between
the power supply and the receiver helps
materially.
In some parts of the world interference
with radio reception by faulty or even
well-designed electrical apparatus is a
matter for legislative regulation, as it
should be. Electrical apparatus is not
permitted to be sold without suppression
devices that do not impair the function-
ing of the apparatus but check possible
radio-inductive trouble at the source.
This is not so in Australia. Departmen-
tal radio inspectors do everything possible
to locate sources of interference where
requested, but it is one thing to locate
such apparatus and quite another to com-
pel the user to fit a suppression device.
The sensible person will co-operate, but
there is always the man with the mis-
guided notion that a gadget of some kind
attached to his electric motor or other
gear will impair the working. Sooner
or later manufacturers of electrical
equipment will have to turn out their
products fitted with noise filters, for
radio is an important part of the every-
day life of the community, and will be
even more so in the future.
Recently in U.S.A. great trouble was
experienced with a particularly vicious
form of interference which became known
as “The Shadow.” It was elusive and
took a great deal of finding, but the
Naval Communication Reserve eventu-
ally ran it to earth. The origin was
found to be in the short-wave field of
therapeutic machines, which are being
used more and more by physicians and
hospitals. Such machines, described as
“diathermy” or “therapy” equipment, are
actually complete radio transmitters, and
they are not all transmitters in miniature.
The average power input is around 300
watts. It has to be for the generation of
a high-frequency field of sufficient in-
tensity. The application is generally to
cure such ailments as boils or carbuncles,
such machines being reputed to clear up
t bese troubles very quickly. But it is a
case of curln ? one ■>> and at *<= same
tlm ” g ™ B n f t 0 th ?“ sa ? ds o£ othars
in the form of severe interference m the
various radio bands The ipment js
made ostens ; bly to operate on one fre .
quency, but adjustments of the elec-
trades between which the patient is
placed mean frequency changes. Not
only is the radiated interference wide-
spread, but it is considerably aggravated
b > - this frequency “wobbulation.” A
small o£ SU . I J machi “ s . can
cause un, °“ bavoc radio receivers,
beaause short-wave radiations of this
" atu . ra are not necessarily confined to the
local,t >' ln whlch the r °P erate ' The V
“I will now ask the celebrated Russian tenor to tell you what he is going
to sing and who is going to sing it.”
can cause a powerful disturbance hun-
dreds or even thousands of miles away.
Such machines are coming into use
in the Commonwealth. The time is not far
distant when steps will have to be taken
to remedy the interference caused by
them. It is not suggested that they
should be prohibited, but it is suggested
that reasonable precautions should and
must be enforced. In the first place, such
machines should be licensed as radio
transmitters. Secondly, they should not
be marketable by people ignorant of radio
fundamentals. Thirdly, anybody using
such apparatus should be required to
operate it inside an electrical shield so that
no radiation can penetrate externally. This
means completely screening the room in
which the appliance is used with metal
gauze. If such a precaution is considered
too costly, a collapsible portable screen
to enclose patient and machine might be
used. Such a “cage” would simply have
to be earthed to prevent external radia-
tion.
Increasing interference is reported
from metropolitan suburbs in Australia,
and tests by experienced observers show
that apparatus of the type under discus-
sion is undoubtedly responsible.
D. B. K.
All Round the Dial.
The A.B.C. announces the following
new programme arrangement: —
Mondays.—The national programme will
open with a serial, broadcast from Sydney
from 8 p.m. till 8.30 p.m. This will be fol-
lowed by a programme of dance music from
8.30 p.m. till 9.15 p.m. given by the A.B.C.
dance orchestra, conducted by Howard Jacobs.
Tuesdays. —One hour of drama, 9 till 10 p.m.
Wednesdays. —8.30 till 9 p.m., chamber
music, followed by national talk; 9.30 till 10.30
p.m., variety programme featuring A.B.C. dance
orchestra.
Thursdays.-—8.30 till 9.30 p.m., musical
comedy; 10 till 10.30 p.m., a play.
Fridays.—8.30 till 9 p.m., national military
band; 9.30 till 10.30 p.m., a melody hour.
Saturdays.—8.30 till 9 p.m., revue.
Sundays.—During the winter, from 4.30 till
6 p.m. every Sunday fortnight there will be
a Shakspearean play (produced alternately by
Melbourne and Sydney). It is hoped in two
years to present all Shakspeare’s plays.
Tragedies will alternate with comedies. On the
alternating Sundays, there will be a programme
of good music. From 9.15 till 10.15 every
Sunday night it is hoped to present a “sym-
phony hour,” with full symphony orchestra,
provided in turn by Melbourne and Sydney.
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: B.B.C. announcers are not
the only ones who mangle Australian
place-names. Listening to rainfall re-
ports the other morning, I heard that
“Casno” had sixty-odd points, while
“Morry” enjoyed an inch or more.
Casino and Moree, no doubt.
* * * *
Comprehensive radio equipment is car-
ried on the German airship Hindenburg.
During her maiden voyage across the
Atlantic, telegraphy and telephony signals
were received in Australia by many ob-
servers. Two “blind” navigation re-
ceivers form part of the Zep’s elaborate
direction-finding equipment; and, work-
ing in conjunction with three wireless
beacons operating on automatic triangu-
lation on the aerodrome, it is possible
to come down safely in extremely bad
conditions of visibility.
+ * *
The police helmet radio receiver has
been applied by the Liverpool (Eng.)
police for cycle squads. Officers on cycle
patrol carry midget receivers in their
pockets to keep them in touch with head-
quarters. The wave-length used is around
148 metres.
Casual Comment.
“2N0”: Australian amateurs have
been stung by the Customs for receiving
radio catalogues from U.S.A. And they
didn’t send for the catalogue ; it comes
unasked for, someone in the American
business having ransacked the “Amateur
Radio Call Book” for mail addresses.
The department charges duty for the
doubtful privilege of perusing a depart-
ment store price list.
* * * *
“Acorn”: Those who read the descrip-
tion of Californian station W6ITH (B.
6/5/’36) and who have heard the easy
manner in which the operator chats over
a mere 8000 miles will be interested to
learn that Reg Tibbetts, the voice behind
the microphone and massive array of
transmitters, is playing an important part
in the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge
project. Heard him telling VK2NO that
with Frank Jones, of “Radio” (U.S.A.),
he is responsible for the ultra-short-wave
radio communication system installed
at the various points during construc-
tion. The main transmitter, which dates
from June, 1933, has never been switched
off since it was put into action. The
valves have never been cold and there has
been no replacement, a tribute to the valve
maker, whoever he may be. An electrical
automatic counter installed on one of the
stations has registered over 300,000
change-overs, meaning that approximately
so many messages have been handled.
* * * *
“Taxi”: The N.S.W. Department of
Road Transport has ordered Newcastle
drivers to remove radio sets installed in
their cabs. The official reason: “Radio
sets do not conform with the schedule
of appurtenances of taxi-cabs, and it is
considered undesirable that radio sets
should be installed.” Sets may not con-
form with “the schedule of appurten-
ances,” but the undesirability point is a
poor one. In countless cases the handi-
ness of a radio receiver might be useful
to the passenger. Then, taximen spend
weary hours inactive on a rank, and
radio would at least provide some diver-
sion.
Amateur Chatter.
During the last three years 40 has held
pride of place as the “bedlam band/'
Now 20 is about breaking even. Un-
usual DX conditions have attracted many
from 40, and, sad to relate, the influx has
brought a complement of “record
grinders” also. For the benefit of
those who may not be aware of
the fact, 20 is essentially a DX band,
and imitation broadcasters are like a bull
in a china shop to those who use the
band appropriately. At present, radio-
phone conversations with long-distance
stations are paramount. In past years
DX stations have been mostly mere. CW
callsigns. Contact by voice imparts more
of the human touch, and one gets, or
should get, a “kick” in being able to con-
verse naturally with a fellow-amateur on
the other side of the earth. Experiences
and ideas are exchanged, and neither
wants to hear inflicted musical record-
ings. A B.C. receiver will supply that,
on tap, and one can purchase records at
the nearest music store, in Australia or
Timbuctoo. Some excellent two-way
conversational chances over 10,000 miles
or so are being wrecked by nuisances
armed with a pickup and turntable, and
this on the most useful of amateur DX
bands. In addition, cases are recorded,
particularly from Europe, of the intru-
sion of actual broadcasting services into


*
Uj
EVER since radio first shot like a comet into
the world of music and entertainment
Philips laboratories have been alive with
achievements . . . inventing . . . developing
improving ... KEEPING RADIO UP-TO-
DATE.
Amazing valves ... screen grid ... penthode
octode ... and now the Metal Clad Series
which are the ultimate in radio development,
offering types for every purpose.
A.C., A.C./D.C. or Battery ... no matter what
type of set you buy insist on Philips Metal,
Clad Valves.
PHILIPS
METAL CLAD VALVES
SS-HS
REDUCED!
“RADIO”
The foremost technical authority of
the radio amateur.
Subscription rate now 16/6 per
annum.
Accepted at The Bulletin Office,
252 George-street, Sydney.
No progressive experimenter should be
without this magazine.
Keep your station up to date by
reading “RADIO.”
THREE WEEKS TO GO-
Sydney’s 1936
Amateur Radio Exhibition
Organised by the N.S.W. Division, Wire-
less Institute of Australia. Open June 15
to 20, in Presbyterian Assembly Hall
(Lower Hall), Wynyard Square.
Not a cabinet display—but a scientific
demonstration of the latest ideas in
amateur and short-wave radio.
Inter-club and general amateur construc-
tional competitions, with valuable prizes
donated by prominent traders and manu-
facturers.
Competitions open to non-members at a
small entry fee.
Complete radiophone and telegraphy trans-
mitters in action. Experimental television
apparatus. Demonstrations of ultra-short-
wave working. Military display.
THE week and meeting place for all
interested in short-wave radio!
The exhibition will be open from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m. on June 15, 16, 18 and 19;
from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. on the 17th,
and from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on the 20th.
Admission 6d. Children 3d.
Exhibition committee: —
H. F. Peterson, VK3HP
W. Byan, VK2TI
W. M. Moore, VK2HZ
O. li. Knock, VK2NO
amateur bands. One South Australian
station is now running a B-class pro-
gramme around 14,050k.c. on Sunday
mornings. Amateur territory is small
enough as it is, and the little available
should be as inviolate as commercial fre-
quencies are to the amateur.
VK2NO.
U.S.A. Short-wave Listener Reports.
For some weeks now the exceptional
conditions prevailing around 20m. have
permitted hundreds of good, reliable two-
way telephony contacts between Austra-
lian and American amateurs. With a huge
public using short-wave receivers of every
description, listener reports are rolling
into Australia in stacks. In the mail of
5/5/’36, the writer received 135 such
reports from listeners alone. It is signi-
ficant that many of the senders complain
that they have previously written to Aus-
tralian amateurs, enclosing postage, and
have not received a reply. This is not
the amateur spirit ; if QSL cards are not
available a letter should be sent. The
short-wave listener is a potential trans-
mitting amateur, and the more of the
public in every country in the world on
the side of the amateur the better. Look
to this, Australians! Don’t let the overseas
listeners form a poor opinion. It is so
easy to sit down and pen a few lines.
VK2NO.
New Manager for 2CH.
Sydney broadcasting station 2CH,
taken over and refitted by Amalgamated
Wireless, begins its new career with a
Radio Personality Quest. The manager
is now Vivian Brooker, M.I.R.E. (U.S.A.),
M.I.W. Tech. (London), M.I.R.E. (Aust.);
no stranger to broadcasting organisa-
tion or to the technical side of radio.
He played an important part afloat in
the development of A.W.A.’s marine
short-wave services, and has been man-
ager of the co.’s broadcasting division
for years.
B.B. C. Empire Broadcasting Service.
Wave-lengths of Transmitters.
Fre- Wave- Fre- Wave-
quency, length, quency, length,
Me. Metres. Me. Metres.
GSA .. 6.05 49.59 GSH .. 21.47 13.97
GSB .. 9.51 31.55 GSI .. 15.26 19.66
GSC .. 9.58 31.32 GSJ ..21.53 13.93
GSD.. 11.75 25.53 GSL .. 6.11 49.10
GSE .. 11.86 25.29 GSN .. 11.82 25.38
GSF .. 15.14 19.82 GSO . . 15.18 19.76
GSG.. 17.79 16.86 GSP .. 15.31 19.60
Transmission. Waves. Times (G.M.T.).
1 GSN 06.15-08.15
GSB
2 GSH 11.00-13.45
GSG
GSG~ 14.00-17.00
3 GSF 14.00-17.00
GSD 15.30-17.00
GSI 17.15-21.00
GSD 17.15-22.45
4 GSB 17.15-21.00
GSB 21.00-22.45
GSO 21.00-22.45
GSP
5 GSC 23.00-01.00
GSD
6 GSD 03.00-04.00
GSC
The 1936 “Radio” Handbook.
It was expected that this radio encyclo-
paedia from the pen and laboratory of
Frank Jones, of the staff of “Radio,”
would be something unusual, but it is
only mild praise to say that it far excels
anything yet produced anywhere in the
world. A sample copy is to hand, and
perusal casually is enough to excite the
enthusiasm of all interested in modern
short-wave radio equipment. First and
foremost, this handbook is practical. It
gives whys and wherefores, and then
shows, with an abundance of diagrams
and particularly clear illustrations, just
how to go about the job. The radio ama-
teur, to say nothing of the progressive
technician, is missing the most valuable
source of information if he lets this
handbook go by. A few of the highlights
are of interest. Considerable informa-
tion is available on the Jones Super-
Gainer type of superhet, around which
The Bulletin’s Ideal Amateur Superhet
was modelled. For transmission, the
Jones exciter revolutionised quartz-
crystal control methods during 1935.
The 1936 type is greatly ahead of this,
being an ingenious unit which takes
the output frequency to 10 metres from
a 160-metre crystal if desired. The radio-
telephony section alone is a volume by
itself, and there are valuable ultra-short-
wave and antenna sections. Subscribers
to “Radio” must not imagine that this
handbook is a rehash of what appeared
in last year’s monthly issues. There
are literally hundreds of good things not
dealt with in the magazine previously,
and those that were are considerably en-
larged upon. Of all books, this is
strongly recommended. It can be
obtained from McGill’s Newsagency, 183
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, at 7s. 6d.
plus 6d. postage.
Philips provide a brave array of
American-type metal valves. “Technical
Communication No. 49” to hand deals
with the following: 6AB pentagrid con-
verter, 6K7 R.F. pentode (variable Mu),
6H6 duo-diode, 6Q7 duo-diode-triode,
6C5 triode, 6F5 triode (high Mu), 6J7
R.F. pentode, 5Z4 full-wave rectifier,
6F6 power pentode and Philips type 6E5
cathode-ray tuning indicator. Circuit
diagrams with socket connections are
illustrated. Philips “Technical Communi-
cations” are obtainable from Philips
Lamps (Australasia), Ltd., Clarence-
street, Sydney.
The Q. and A. Column.
Can an audio-amplifying valve be used with
the Little Twin receiver to operate a small
speaker ? If so, what valve would be suitable,
also transformer ratio ? —415.
Yes. A ID4 pentode would be suitable,
with resistance coupling for preference. Use
a 50,000-ohm plate resistor, a .01 mica grid
condenser, a 5-raeg. grid resistor and a 4\-
volt bias battery. An ordinary magnetic
speaker can be used.
sl &
(1) How does the Wide-World Four compare
in’ performance with the Electronic Battery
Four, not considering the extra A-battery cur-
rent used by the W.-W. Four ? (2) Would
8-/o-1 vernier dials be suitable for the R.F.
condenser and the bandspread condenser, with
a 56-/o-1 dial for the detector tuning of the
Electronic Four ? (3) What alterations have
been made since the list of short-wave broad-
casting stations was published in B. 14/8/’35?
—416.
(1) If the A-battery drain is not a con-
sideration, the Wide-World Four is preferable.
Performance is about equal, and the W.-W.
Four is easier to handle because of the type
of detector used,. (2) Use the highest ratio dial
for the bandspread, and not the detector
tuning. Actually a vernier dial is not essen-
tial on the R.F. stage. (3) Only minor wave-
length changes and one or two additions. No
recent list has come to hand.
* * * *
Is it possible to build a very small and
compact receiving set, using one modern low-
consumption valve, for headphone reception of
the stronger stations when connected to a; tem-
porary aerial? —417.
Yes, and by using a super-regenerative
arrangement it is possible even to dispense with
the aerial on near-by stations. In this case the
tuning inductance takes the form of a small
loop aerial. This type of pocket receiver is
one to which the radio editor intends to give
attention when time permits.
* * * *
I have built the transformer-coupled version
of the Little Twin as described in B. 29/1/’36,
but all I can get from the set is a shrill, per-
sistent whistle which starts as soon as current
passes into the filament. Operation of the re-
action condenser has a slight tendency to affect
the pitch of the note emitted, but the tuning
condenser has little or no effect. The grid
leak and transformer resistance were not
marked, but 1 obtained what I think is the
higher resistance of the two by testing with a
\\-volt dry cell and ’phones on the basis of
loudness of click. What is likely to be the
trouble ? —4lB.
The latter part of the summary would indi-
cate a far too high value of grid leak across
the grid condenser. Such guesswork is not
good enough for this purpose. Better obtain
a grid-resistance of known and accurate value.
The audio transformer could be responsible
for the trouble, but in such case shunting
the secondary with a .25- or .1-meg. resistor
will usually clear things up. Finally there is
the ever-present battery question. One or two
faulty cells in the H.T. battery can cause this.
persistent howling in a regenerative detector-
audio receiver. The grid condenser should not
be larger than .00025mfd., and a large capacity
here would also produce the symptoms.
* * * *
I hear many amateur telephony stations on
the 20-metre band working with Americans,
and enjoy listening to the conversations. One
gets rather tired of the interminable “CQ DX”
call. Must this call be used, and just what
does it mean ? —420.
It is merely an abbreviated way of saying
“This station is calling any long-distance
station for a reply,” and is a time-saver. Such
abbreviations apply to Morse code working,
and it would be more correct to use ordinary
language. Reception conditions, however, may
be poor at a distant location, and the listening
operator would be likely to miss words and
misinterpret the meaning. The brief “CQ DX”
attracts instant attention, and the listening
operator focusses his attention for the call-
sign, which naturally follows.
* * * *
How could the Ideal Amateur Superhet be
used as a dual-wave receiver to cover the usual
range of wave-lengths betM’een 19 and 50 and
200 and 550 metres ?— 421.
As the receiver was described this could
not be done by reason of the manual band-
setter condensers and the small ganged capa-
cities, the arrangement being designed for
bandspreading over the amateur bands. Re-
design would be necessary, and this would
mean using a .00038mfd. condenser gang and
the appropriate coils with switching. Such a
receiver should be extremely sensitive and a
rather remarkable performer, but it would be
experimental, because of the regeneration con-
trol on the first detector. The second de-
tector regeneration control would not, of
course, be wanted. The receiver could be de-
signed with a balance of regeneration in these
circuits, dispensing with the manual controls
for this function, but the inequality of aerial
loads in the input would tend to upset things
here. It cannot be assumed that all aerials
used for general reception are similar in capa-
city and fundamental frequency. It is intended
to make up a model on the lines suggested
when time permits.
% * *
Please supply a diagram for a push-pull
amplifier using triodes and pentodes. 1 have
several type 37 and 42 valves on hand, and
would like to make use of these. —419.
A suitable amplifier diagram is illustrated,
all resistor and condenser values being indi-
cated. Note that a special input transformer
with push-pull secondary is used. This can be
used for mixing a microphone and pick-up
input. The push-pull input transformer be-
tween the 37 and 42 output valves should
be of good make, such as Lekmek or Glad-
stone. The wiring of the heaters indicates that
a generator such as the Carter Genemotor
can be used for D.C. operation from a six-
volt accumulator.
* * * *
What correspondence courses are there
which would help me to qualify for 1 an
amateur operator’s and also a commercial
operator’s certificate ? —423.
The Australian School of Radio Engineering,
Wembley House, Railway-square, Sydney, has
a correspondence course for the A.0.P.C., and
possibly for the commercial ticket also.
* * * *
Approximate wave-lengths and callsigns of
(1) Radio Coloniale ? (2) Dutch stations aud-
ible in Australia ? (3) Russian stations ? (4)
Italian stations ? —422.
(1) 19.68, 25.6 and 25.23 metres. FYA
Paris. (2) 25.57 metres PHI, and 19.71 metres
PCJ. (3) 25 metres RWS9, 45.38 metres RW72,
50 metres RWS9, 70.2 metres RWIS. (4) 31.13
metres 2RO, 25.4 metres 2RO, 50.26 metres
HVJ, 19.84 metres HVJ. Schedules of operat-
ing times vary according to seasonal conditions.


Champion
_ SPARKING PLUGS
CANADA
give better
performance
in every
engine
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
m
m.
WORLD
LEADERS
Hi FOR 25
••SILVER
EDGE”
{RfuAvifa,
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rcp.s JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
SOLVING THE PROBLEMS OF
MODERN CAR CONSTRUCTION.
WHERE RUBBER PLAYS ITS PART.
BY FRED BERRY.
D ESEARCH, experiment and, in a lesser measure, keen trade
rivalry between the larger motor manufacturing organisa-
tions have resulted in motors and transmission mechanism fitted
to modern cars operating with a minimum of noise.
Similarly, coachbuilders and fitters now turn out body-
work which, silent to commence with, will remain free from
squeaks and rattles even after long periods of use.
To achieve this object by sheer strength
and precision of construction would be
a very costly business, owing mainly to
the high degree of accuracy demanded
and the labor necessary in the consequent
“hand fitting” of each part. Even if
this expenditure were faced, vibration
would still be transmitted to passengers
and driver.
To-day all these inherent difficulties
have been overcome by the general use
Vibration traced by a stylus when the
engine was revved up,” as recorded
from the crankcase. (“Motor” photo-
graph.)
of rubber as a vibration-absorbing
medium, and it is interesting to note that
in modern-car construction approximately
100 component parts are made wholly
or in part of this material.
Lasting Qualities.
Although the general belief is held that
rubber is a somewhat unstable material,
susceptible to rapid deterioration, such is
not the case, for, provided a rubber of
good quality is used, properly com-
pounded and vulcanised, there is no
reason why parts made from it should
not last just as long as the rest of the car.
As with metals, rubber can be com-
pounded and treated to give any one of
an extensive range of physical properties.
It can be made soft and spongy, hard and
brittle or extremely flexible, according to
the work it is to do.
Oil and direct sunlight are known to
have a deleterious effect upon rubber
compounds, but so also have water and
moisture upon ferrous metals. In prac-
tice no difficulty has been found in pro-
viding these flexible parts with adequate
protection to ensure long and satisfactory
service. Some striking examples of the
longevity of rubber components have re-
cently been adduced, one of the most
remarkable being a specimen rubber
spring or “buffer” in the test room of
Messrs. Spencer Moulton (Eng.), which,
when inspected by the technical staff of
the “Motor,” showed physical charac-
teristics almost identical with those it
possessed when it first was made, over
50 years ago.
Examination of the specifications of
any popular modern car reveals that
not only is rubber used to absorb torque
reaction and the power thrust of the
engine, but in many instances a dozen
small compressed rubber bushes support
the whole sprung weight of the car.
In engine mounting particularly rubber
has revolutionised engineering practice.
In earlier times the engine was bolted
firmly to the chassis and cross members,
the result being that, however good the
construction might be, unbalanced
couples, torque reaction and other forces
were transmitted directly to chassis and
body, resulting in harshness of operation,
accompanied by considerable vibration
and noise.
Engine Mountings.
Modern practice, almost without ex-
ception, is to mount the engine in the
chassis on live rubber supports, three,
four or five points of suspension being
used, depending on the views of dif-
ferent designers, whilst in the “floating
power” system of mounting the engine is
supported on its axis on two large
rubber cradles.
Such methods offer many advantages
and have a decided influence for the
better upon passenger comfort, efficiency,
silent operation and life of working parts.
Using the “floating power” flexible
mounting as a typical example it will be
observed that the engine is permitted to
Corresponding chassis vibration, greatly
reduced owing to rubber mountings. Note
distinct period in each case.
oscillate several inches round its axis,
and under load takes up a position some
degrees from the vertical, depending
upon the power being applied at that
particular moment.
While the motor at all times transmits
power smoothly, vibration, thrust and
couples are so completely absorbed by
the rubber cushion as to pass unnoticed
from the driver’s seat. Moreover, every
metal unit in the assembly is less sus-
ceptible to fatigue, while bodywork and
fittings seldom develop the annoying
squeaks and rattles so common in con-
ventional design. In some quarters doubt
exists as to the wearing qualities and
physical strength of certain types of
rubber mountings, but as the result of
research work conducted jointly by the
Chrysler Corporation and the Firestone
Tyre Co. it was found possible to vul-
canise a rubber pad to a metal plate
under heat and pressure, and to secure
such a strong bond between the two as
to make it literally impossible to tear
them apart. Tests have been made
which show that, although the rubber
can be torn by applying sufficient force,
Silent block compressed-rubber bushing
used in spring shackles and shock-ab-
sorber anchorages.
a layer invariably remains firmly attached
to the metal surface. The perfection of
this process has greatly extended the use
of rubber in car construction, making
possible strong connections between units
without metal-to-metal contact.
Standing immediately behind a
modern car a considerable exhaust-pipe
“flutter” will be observed, and motorists
have on many occasions rushed to the
nearest service station complaining of
careless assembly. Actually nothing of
that nature has occurred, for if the
engine is made free to move in its
anchorage the exhaust line will break
unless provided with flexible mountings.
Rubber hangers are therefore fitted
along the exhaust line, and for the same
reason rubber piping is fitted between
the fuel line and fuel pump, while the
gearbox rests upon a rubber cushion,
and the radiator connections to cooling
system are of rubber hose.
Riding on Rubber.
A comparison of modern suspension
systems with those of older types re-
veals the ever-increasing scope and
utility of rubber. Until recently shackle
pins were of case-hardened steel, with
phosphor bronze bearings driven into the
spring eye. Shock-absorbers, when fitted,
were in direct metallic contact with
chassis and axle, and springs were bolted
directly to the axle pad. In such
assemblies wear was inevitable, the
trouble-free period depending chiefly
upon efficiency of lubricating system and
the regular manner in which it was used,
but ultimately excessive wear resulted.
In modern suspension details there can
be little if any wear, and the units
operate silently during their whole eh- ec "
tive life, owing to the wide use of rubber.
“Silentbloc” bushes, in which rubber is
pressed between inner and outer sleeves,
are fitted to spring shackles, the rubber
cushion absorbing all load and twisting
stresses. Moulded rubber blocks are
placed between spring and axle housing,
rubber crash-pads are fitted to top spring
leaves, directly beneath the frame mem-
ber, and shock-absorbers are fitted either
with “Silentbloc” bushes or a pair of
compressed rubber cushions at both ends
of the connecting arm.
Tyres also are important factors in
suspension systems, and motorists
scarcely need to be reminded what great
progress has recently been made both in
fabrication of casings and in the quality
of the rubber used in treads and tubes,
the direct result being that new cars
usually run for from 10 to 15 thousand
miles without further attention to equip-
ment than regular checking of inflation
pressures.
Shockless Steering.
Steering-gear assemblies have in the
past incorporated spring-loaded ball
joints at the extremities of the drag link
and tie rod, but the newly-designed
rubber-bushed connection fitted to many
modern cars gives enhanced results owing
to its preventing back lash and absorbing
road shocks.
The practical application of hydraulic
brakes is due to specially-prepared
rubber which, while flexible enough
to accommodate different positions taken
by the road wheels, will resist oil and
withstand the enormous pressures used
in the line. Further, the master cylinder
depends for its efficiency upon a rubber-
capped washer attached to the plunger
and a rubber protective bellows over the
piston.
In the electrical system, extensive use
is made of rubber, both as a dielectric
Rubber-bushed steering-connection, stud
bonded in rubber.
and for physical protection of units.
Beginning with the storage battery, rubber
separators insulate the lead-plates from
damage due to vibration and road shock,
and do not disintegrate, even after years
of use, while the outer casings are usually
made from “tyre-dough,” the basis of
which is a rubber compound.
Wires from generator to battery, from
switchboard to starter-motor, lamps, igni-
tion system and all accessories depend
wholly upon rubber for purposes of in-
sulation, while rubber sheaths over plugs
and distributor-head serve to prevent
these vital members from shorting when


ii
VEEDOL
■MOTOR OIL
Vi
M oTO *
F takes you hours—sometimes weeks, after
numerous visits by car salesmen, for you to
decide on your £250, £5OO, £lOOO or £2OOO car.
Yet you take any Oil offered for its lubrication.
Be logical. Think over the Oil question, and
when you do you will be another VEEDOL user.
There are millions of VEEDOL users throughout
the world today and remember VEEDOL, the
world’s finest Motor Oil, costs no more than
other Oils.
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED.
ALL STATES
S
the car is left unprotected in heavy
weather for long periods.
Cutaway section of “Flotex” flexible
engine mounting, the bearer bolt and
chassis bracket being separated by com-
pressed rubber bushings.
Eliminating Rattles.
During the last few years the “rub-
berisation” of automobile bodies and
chassis has made rapid progress, and has
already resulted in important develop-
ments. For example, it is used to pre-
vent -rain entering at the edges of wind-
screen, windows and doors. It is also
used in the shape of washers and ferrules
to seal pedal slots and similar openings,
to prevent squeaking between bonnet and
dashboard, and to protect cables or pipes
at points where they pass through solid
members. Pedal controls, gear and brake
levers are fitted with rubber sheaths to
prevent dust and draughts entering the
driver’s compartment. Windscreen-wiper
blades, together with hose connections to
the motor, are of rubber, while belts of
similar material are used to drive genera-
tor, fan and water-pump.
Door stops of vulcanised rubber serve
to prevent rattles in coachwork, whilst
sponge rubber is used extensively in
upholstery, in preference to metal
springs. Cast rubber is vulcanised on the
treads of pressed-steel running-boards ; is
used as an insulation for bumper-bar
anchorages and as a sheath over petrol
tank filler pipes. Lastly, for the benefit
of those motorists whose tail-light
assembly lacks adequate protection, these
units may now be obtained fashioned
of rubber.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
F.E.C. (Ivanhoe, IS.S MV).—Would it be pos-
sible to rig a bracket on my ’35 truck to put
a wireless battery so that it could be charged ?
Any special instructions for wiring 7
Yes, the six-volt battery can be located any-
where within reason, preferably close to a
chassis member so that the earth lead can be
conveniently bolted on. When attaching wire
from the generator make certain the lead comes
from the battery side of the cutout and not
the generator side, also that terminals con-
nected on the spare battery are of like polarity
to those on the truck battery. With both
batteries in circuit the charging rate will
approximately be halved, but the third brush
on the generator could be moved forward to
give seven to eight amps.
* H= * *
C.O.D. (Booval, Q.). —(1) How is an irides-
cent finish obtained, and is it more durable than
plain lacquer 7 (2) Lately brakes on my ’35
model car (3000 miles) squeak occasionally. It
is not through dampness, and I am easy on the
pedal. Squeak is only noticeable when pressure
is nearly full on. Cause and cure 7 (3) Water
is leaking slightly from bushing just behind
fan belt, getting past the grease. How can I
stop it 7 (4) Where can I get complete list
of performances of cars in tests 7
(1) Usually with a special lacquer com-
pound in which bronzes are incorporated.
There is little difference in durability between
this and a plain finish. (2) First try taking
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
Whenever the generator squeaks
or charging rate fluctuates,
always first inspect carbon
brushes. Illustration shows how
they should fit on copper seg-
ments.
up adjustment on each wheel about three
retches. If this fails, probably foreign matter
has entered brake housing, become embedded
in lining and is scoring the drum and so set-
ting up a squeak. Remove wheel and inspect.
(3) Tighten up packing gland on pump spindle.
(4) Information was published B. 8/4/’36.
* * * *
A.N.C. (Scone, N.S.W.). — What is the differ-
ence between constant-mesh and synchromesh
gears, and do either offer any advantages over
the gears without fancy names used in earlier
years ?
Both constant-mesh and synchromesh gears
have the pinions in the gearbox in constant
engagement, and gears are selected not, as in the
old conventional types, by sliding one pinion
along a shaft until it engages, but by movement
of a dog clutch- along a splined shaft. In
synchromesh gears small clutches on each set
of pinions make relative speeds of gears
approximately equal before the dog clutch
is engaged, providing a silent change at all
speeds and permitting of gears being selected
even after the engine has stopped and the car
is in motion. Advantages are simplicity of
operation, silence and, owing to teeth on
pinions being helical cut, higher efficiency.
* * * *
E.P. (Mackay, Q.). — After running my late
’35 model car 7500 miles I had the motor de-
carbonised and valves ground, and, although the
motor now pulls as well as ever, I use about
one gallon of oil every 400 miles. I also
notice a distinct metallic tapping, which con-
tinues for some time, coming from the engine
starting up from cold. Cause and cure ?
Oil consumption is certainly excessive, and
symptoms point to wear of cylinder bores or
pistons, or both. Take the matter up with
the local agents, who, if satisfied the car has
not been ill-used, will probably fit a new set
of pistons and rings.
* * * *
S.L. (Canberra, F.C.T.).— My ’36 model
six-cylinder car has now done 4000 miles.
During the first two months the water tem-
perature seldom rose beyond 140 deg., but I
believed that to be due to slow “running-in”
the engine. Recently on a long, fast trip I
found the temperature refused to go higher
however fast I drove. Is the engine intended
to run so cool, is it economical, and, if not,
how can it be altered ?
A good many modern cars
are overcoolcd, the most effi-
cient operating temperature
being 180-190 deg. Thermostats
are not adjustable, and the
only way to increase working
temperature is to temporarily
block off portion of the radia-
tor core or to disconnect fan
blades from the fan pulley. In
either case one must be care-
ful not to let the engine idle
for too long a period, other-
wise the cooling water will
boil.
V.N. (Brisbane, Q.). — Should the
clutch be left in engagement or dis-
engaged when brakes are applied ?
Much will depend on speed and
condition of road at time brakes are
applied. With modern powerful four-
wheel equipment the car can be re-
tarded much more rapidly than the
natural deceleration rate of the engine
at high speeds, so that an emergency
stop should be made with clutch
“out.” In normal traffic driving at
moderate speeds, however, the engine
can be used to assist brakes in re-
tarding forward motion, with con-
siderable saving in wear of brake
linings. On wet and greasy roads, usually
driven over at moderate speeds, the clutch should
be kept in engagement when using brakes.
* * *
E.A. (Glenelg, S.A.).—/ propose storing my
sedan for six months while on a trip abroad.
Are there any special precautions to be
observed to ensure it being in good order after
storage 7
Store if possible in a garage free from
dampness and sunlight. Jack wheels off ground
to prevent tyres carrying load at one point.
Smear all plated fittings with good-quality pet-
roleum jelly. Send battery to service station to
have a freshening charge each month, or, alter-
natively, drain out acid, remove plates and,
after standing in distilled water two or three
days, let them stand dry until battery is again
required. If possible have someone turn the
motor by crank a few times each month.
* * * *
S.P. (Nowra, N.S.W.). — The cylinder head
of my 12 -h.p. car appears to be cemented to
the block. How can it be lifted, as I desire
to decarbonise the engine 7 1 am afraid of
cracking the metal by driving a screwdriver
in the joint.
Whoever last fitted the head evidently made
the mistake of smearing the gasket on both
sides with either cement or shellac, and in such
cases it may be necessary to risk using a chisel
or screwdriver to force the metal surfaces apart.
Try first slacking off all holding-down nuts,
leave plugs in and turn motor briskly with
starting-handle ; the compression may be high
enough to break the seal. When reassembling
use a new gasket and merely smear it on both
sides with grease.
* =l= * *
W.P. (Hawthorn, Vic.). — My ’36 model car
(7500 miles ) has recently been giving trouble
owing to difficulty in engaging gears when
starting up in the mornings, considerable force
being necessary to get either first or second
gear. After running a few miles the resistance
is normal. Cause and cure ?
Lubricant in the gearbox is too heavy, re-
sisting free movement of pinions along spline
shafts. Have gearbox flushed out and filled
with suitable winter gear oil.
* * * *
L.H. (Toowoomba, Q.). — On turning the
ignition key in my new car I notice a distinct
discharge reading on the ammeter, sometimes
as low as one amp., at other times three to
four amps. Is there a short in the electrical
system, and, if so, is it likely to do harm ?
In coil-and-battery ignition systems a dis-
charge will be shown when the ignition switch
is made if make-and-break points in the dis-
tributor happen to be closed. There is nothing
to worry about.
* * * *
H.R.M. (Mackay, N.Q.). — In my ’29 model
six-cylinder car the oil from the shock-absorbers
leaks through the shoulders and runs along the
arm. Can washers be inserted to prevent this ?
If not, would castor oil do the trick ?
Neither washers nor thick oil would be the
slightest use. Leakage is due to wear in
spindle and bushes, and requires attention of
a specialist for effective repair, which entr.ils
fitting new wheels and regrinding the case-
hardened steel spindle.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Studemobile”: A St. George (Q.)
motorist recently bought a 1936 model
sedan. Being unable to take delivery
himself and not trusting anyone to drive
the new car sedately, he had it sent on
a lorry. On the long journey the driver
crashed into a tree, wrecking the truck
completely. But Miss 1936 finished up
ii} the middle of the road, right side up,
without a scratch.
‘'Flick”: Drunks aren’t what they used
to be. I read where one was run over
by a light car and killed the other day.
Back in ’17, when Les Griffiths was run-
ning the road from Duchess to Uran-
dangie (W.Q.), I went in with him once
in his Buick Six—a car with a bit of
weight about it, not like the light-weight
sprinters they breed these times. We
got to Duchess just on dark. Les ran
his car into a bit of a shed at the back
of the pub where he used to keep it.
That shed fitted the car like a glove.
When she was going into her stable
she gave a bit of a heave and a grunt.
Les got out to have a look. There was
“But if it Was HIS car, why Were YOU driving?”
“I Was teaching him!”
a drunk lying right across the shed, and
the two front wheels had gone right over
him —he gave the grunt that I thought
came from the car. There wasn’t room
to pull him out, and we couldn’t leave
him there. The only thing to do was
to back out over him again. We did.
His second grunt was heartier than his
first. After dragging him away we put
the car to bed. I saw that fellow next
day. He complained of a cramped feel-
ing about the chest. If he reads this, he
will know for the first time what caused
it.
* * * *
“Spring”: Just an ordinary Overland
tourer, she began life as a lady’s car.
Passing through harder hands she eventu-
ally became a half-ton utility, and was
used for towing cars by a garage, and
for carting anything from junk to large
loads of wood. Well weighted, she towed
a big tank waggon. Bought later by a
grazier, she became a fire-fighting truck
and carried 100 gallons of water and
quarter ton of equipment. Many fires
were successfully fought with her, and no
truck was handier or more efficient in
action. She had then done 169,000 miles
with only one rebore. The pistons had
terrific slap, but she could still pull well.
The last I saw of her she was being used
by an ice-cream vendor and still going
strong. This must be a light-car record,
surely?


THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. ■ Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars /ro».
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Supposing ...
Just
Supposing!
. . . that 4 people
only read each one
that’s printed. Four
times 61,361 is 245,444
. , . practically one
in of S.A.’s popula-
tion . . . coverage ?
Advertise in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE —A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newsnaner House. Collins street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smith. 34-40 Ludaate
Hill. E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
‘The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers;
IiET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. O. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
"The Examiner,” established 1842, is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North—the home of two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania,
full information, copies, advertising- rates
of ‘‘The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
(Examine*
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
JlAxArusiq
'jbalLy
023
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY,, LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligk St., Sydney.
We’re IN THE MIDDLE
.. .and Like It!
SAM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Perhaps she would not care for the verandah
now that he and Butts were away. The jungle would
seem to creep closer to the bungalow and the dark-
ness would contain hints of unseen things. She would
go inside and sit over a book. Perhaps she would
spare him a thought.
He smiled faintly as he drew at his pipe. In his
long stay in this country he had found out a good
deal about the power of thought—if it could be called
thought. The force of it was continually in use among
the natives, and more than once he had had to fight
it. But its influence need not always be dark, and
there was no reason why he should not project himself
in a friendly way towards Joyce. The mere fact that
he was thinking of her like this might be enough to
set an image of him in her mind. She was a sensitive
subject; for all her calmness and indifference there was,
after all, a way in which he could reach her. Beyond
her coldness, like a creeping warmth, he could pene-
trate the secret places of her mind. He was there now!
“Joyce!” he called softly. “I’m with you, after
all, and you can’t shut me away.”
He was mocking her now, exulting in the clear-
ness with which he could see her. The room of her
bungalow rose out of the sinking fire, and he almost
smelt the jungle flowers in her tall vases. He saw
the startled lift of her head and her puzzled eyes. '
Almost he could hear her slow, deep breathing.
By this time she would be a prey to restlessness.
She would walk to the windows and stare out into
the darkness and shiver at the silence—like an immense
sound-proof chamber prepared for the recording of
jungle whisperings. Bimba would be ordered to bring
one of those fruit-drinks she was so fond of. Then
she would decide to go to bed.
The moonlight would be in at her window, and
she would be able to see palm leaves edged in silver
against the sky. He knew, because he had had that
bungalow himself at one time, and had slept in that
very room. This was a good thought! He had occu-
pied her room in the past, and he knew that there must
be a little of him still there, some survival of thought
and feeling, vibrating gently. There would be enough
of him, perhaps, to join forces with this present con-
centration of thought and aid the building of an im-
pression of him too powerful to be resisted.
She would grow hot and restless, and turn about
in her bed ; and the mosquito netting would become
a great mesh, catching her up like some trapped
creature. He knew that fear. It had been his own
sometimes in the past, before he had been accepted
by this discriminating country. She would lie there
and bite at her lower lip and frown at the ceiling ;
and as time passed she would have to resist an im-
pulse to fling wide her arms and tear at the netting
as if it were a horror of cobwebs spun by no earthly
creatures and settling slowly over her face.
This was where his thoughts of her would help.
The first fear would ebb ; a quietness would come ;
she would begin to have thoughts of Murdoch, and
in the reaction from strain she would turn to
him gladly, forgetting that they had been on unsatis-
factory and even unfriendly terms, and remembering
only that he was a man, and strong.
The fire had died down and would need heaping
up again if he were to guard against the cold mountain
air. Natives were stretched alongside their own fire,
with a single watcher sitting awake like a polished
image, the light playing brokenly upon the ridges and
caverns of his face! The night was still. Tall trees
Stood below him, their tops motionless against the
sky, their dark skirts hiding away a life that stirred
faintly as the hours moved on.
A sudden blankness came over Murdoch, and
he knew at once tha t Joyce had pushed him away,
and was now aslee P- Once more he tried to picture
her ’ tying tkere > but * n her slee P she was be y° nd kim ’
a « d the picture was faint and unconvincing. She
had gone away, and his thoughts fell back upon him-
seI C bringing a resurgent restlessness that might not
leave him as easi ty as il had left J °y ce -
He jumped so suddenly to his feet that the watching
native clutched his spear. Murdoch waved him back
and strode down to td e edge of the woods. The trees
were standing in a black shadow that met him with
c ° ol airs > touched faintly with a coloring of scrub
blossoms. He walked on until the watchful eye of
the fire no longer winked towards him,. and there
was no longer a glimpse of the mountain-top, rounded
off and polished against the moonlight.
He wanted darkness, and a silence as deep as
man could stand. The trees were pines, and there
was a dee P car P e t of fallen needles. He lay down
and spread himself out as if towards forgetfulness.
But he was troubled and stirred, and wondering at
th e force of feeling that now was mocking all sober
decisions, breaking down high hours of the mountain-
top and submerging all reflections of sunglow.
Jt bad come to this, then: that the highest mood
of which he was capable was powerless against the
thought of a woman. From his mountain-top he had
come straight into a night of longing and desire.
How insidious was the strength of Joyce’s influence
over him! It almost seemed as if he were setting Joyce
against his beloved gipsy-country, and as if, in lie
madness of the night, he were making dehbeiate choice
°f the woman. . . .
. A dulness came over his spirit. It was not m
bim to think any more this night; and feeling, too,
must be banished. For feeling was changeable, and could
use P art s of him that might seem to be set one against
another. He had resisted love until love grew stronger
than he ; and now, as he hurried from the wood, there
r° se in him a fear that reached out towards shadows
and trees and everything that lay behind him in he
vast area of timbered country: a fear of unknown
a nd unseen things, created from within himself and
now claiming its existence apart from him. Such a
fear, he knew, would not have been possible before
this night; it came, like a division of self, after his
surrender to Joyce. For he had made up his mind to
start hts return journey m the morning.
UJ- . .
It was barely dawn when the camp roused up ,
and in a grey, tremulous light the Kanakas packed
their gear and prepared for the trail. After a mea
had been eaten Murdoch stood apart and watched
his men go carefully over the eamptng-ground stab-
bmg up the earth with their spears: the last, inevitable
rite before departure ... . knowimr
A lot of nonsense, thought!^« h > kn °™«
that none of thewoulddrag
up here. But the natives must protect themselves
i 4- jinrl liPiTirl tlicm OVOT* to thp SOfCCrcrS With.
sonal traces and hand them over to the sorcerers, with
dire results.
Morning came over the top. of the
a chill breeze
the branches of the trees. Murdoch breathed grate
fully. The air was clean and sweet, and soon he would
be down in the steaming places.
Murdoch, set the pace, and it was no easy ° , '
He was in a hurry, and if he could stride along qui y
it was not so dismaying to think of all the . ml l
jungle and swamp that separated him f rorn '
And haste would not help much, for they had a g
way to go downhill; and when they were out of
tall forest they would have to force their way against
the opposition of scrub and trees welded, in som
alchemy of earth, into bars and barriers, and looped
about with vines that hung down from the dimness
of upper branches and became charged with an aimos
animal energy as soon as they felt the touch or an
impatient traveller. .
So there would be the usual careful journeying,
and he would have to seat patience in his s ° ul _? n ,
keep himself from hastening the men unduly.
were primitive creatures, but they credited him wi
a knowledge and understanding of these places, and
if he showed an ignorant haste his mana would suiter.
But this need for care and all the perils and cnances
of the journey were so many impediments in his way ,
and because he would not show an outward impatience
he was the more troubled inwardly.
He had made up his mind now that he must go
to Joyce and claim her love. An hour’s isolation
and freedom had been all that he could find ,
and as soon as he was away from the panorama and
the melting sunset skies he had found the need foi
Joyce with a renewed strength within him almost
as if it had used the hour that was to have destroyed
it. The thing was ordained, then ; a movement of
destiny that had been started when Joyce came to
the settlement, and that now must be finished. It
was her own fault, he told himself, almost savagely.
He had warned her, and she had taken no notice.
She, too, must face her destiny.
Colder thoughts came, it was easy to give in
to desire, to receive long thoughts of a woman, and
to picture all that could happen between them: the
suddenness of love, the excitement and the beauty.
But the reality might be different. Joyce was not shar-
ing his experience. She had shown him often enough
that she did not care for him ; and yet he was hasten-
ing towards her, and thinking of nothing but his
longing to make fierce love to her. Was his passion
a madness, then—bringing the seeds of destruction?
Hope and despair did their work within him,
and there grew a sort of sullen resolve to take no
denial now that he had come so far towards her.
And while they were in the swamp he remembered
that Butts would not be back with the whaleboat.
The thought seemed to rise up from the waters, and
in the hovering mist and humid airs all its dark im-
plications took a forced and rapid growth. Joyce
would be alone in the clearing ; it would be several
days before Butts returned.
He had better be careful, he thought, mopping his
face. There was no need to give way as completely
as this. And what of Joyce? What would be her
attitude when the madness was over? She would
hate him. But hatred was a passion, and might sur-
prise her into an acceptance of something that had
the look of a fateful inevitableness. She would hate
him so much that the very strength of her feel-
ing would make union with his own, and there
would be a flame of desire between them. Hate and
love were too close to be separated long in
a place like this. Leave the Afterwards until it was
here! Leave everything until he had returned and
faced Joyce once and for all! His blood urged him
on, moving him towards fulfilment.
{To be continued next week.)


THE EDITOR’S
DILEMMA.
The editor would like to publish the manu-
script. The subject is interesting and the
thought good, but the paragraphing is poor,
giving the effect of lack of unity; there are
some obvious grammatical errors, and the em-
phasis is wrongly distributed. The writer
apparently has been at pains to enlarge his
vocabulary, but has not learned how to con-
struct sentences; he is involved and redundant,
and he misses the climaxes that would make
what he has to say sparkle.
The editor hesitates. By rejecting the MS.
forthwith he would save time, but he would
lose an article his readers want. Can he
blue-pencil the offences out, and put some
strength in? He reads the first two pages
again and finds that he cannot. His dilemma
is solved. He rejects the MS.
“WRITING FOR THE
NEWSPAPERS.”
“Writing for the Newspapers” is a Course
of training prepared and conducted conjointly
by Bernard Cronin and E. H. Welford. It
concerns itself with the difficulties of inex-
perienced writers as indicated in the pre-
ceding paragraphs.
The Course consists of eight lessons. It
covers all the requirements, general and par-
ticular, of newspaper paragraphs and articles.
It is a complete training, including not only
the writing of articles and paragraphs, but
also selection of subjects and methods of treat-
ment for different kinds of publications.
The chapter headings of the eight lessons
are; General Requirements, Subjects and the
Source of Ideas; Paragraphing an Article;
Unity and Examples; Punctuation; Distribu-
tion of Emphasis and Brevity; Hints and
Errors; the Range of Consciousness; Conden-
sation and Expansion; the Effective Vocabulary
Ind the Business Side of Writing.
Throughout the Course the pupil is re-
quired to conform to newspaper practice and
to write articles and paragraphs under strict
newspaper conditions. The lessons themselves
deal with the many common faults which may
spoil an otherwise acceptable article. The
exercises are searching and the standard of
work demanded of the pupil high. Each para-
graph and article written by the pupil is
criticised in detail from the editorial stand-
point and as a piece of writing, with the
object of bringing it, if possible, up to publica-
tion standard.
The Course gives just the help and stimulus
which the inexperienced but ambitious writer
needs.
If you are interested and will communicate
with E. H. Welford at 398 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, he will send you further particulars of
this Course of training, and will be pleased to
discuss with you your writing experience and
aspirations.
E. H. WELFORD PTY., LTD.,
“Good English and Good Writing,”
Managers of
The WELFOBD COURSE IN
ENGLISH, by, E. H. Welford and
A. W. B. Welford, M.A. (Cantab.),
The BERNARD CRONIN STORY -
YVRITING COURSE, by Bernard
Cronin,
WRITING FOR THE NEWS-
PAPERS— a course in the writing
of paragraphs and articles for
Australian newspapers and
periodicals,
CRITICAL SERVICE TO
WRITERS. Criticism of indivi-
dual MSS. and advice on publica-
tion by Bernard Cronin.
Particulars of any, or all. of these
courses will be sent post free on
application to
E. H. WELFORD PTY., LTD,,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
Lieut.-Genera!
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout,”
Mr. E. V. Lucas/
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch.”
Sir Max Pemberton,
the Well-known Novelist.
“Pelmanism smooths away all
• • •
The Signatures
The signatures in this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
the Pelinan Institute. Signatures
differ as much as faces differ, and.
like faces, they often surprise us
when we meet them by their un-
likeness to our conception of them.
We arc sure that readers of “The
Bulletin” will be interested in these
signatures of well-known Pelman-
ists.
DR. « . VV. NO K WOOD, 8.8.,
of the City Temple, Condon,
Who describes Pelmanism as
“The Key to a Man’s Career.”
INTERNATIONA!, AWARDS
to the Pelinan Institute:
Ciege 1930 Nancy 1933
Oeneva .... 1933 Paris
J 933
The more important personal, qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
are:
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Hinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Decision
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ease
Courage
and a Reliable Memory
(Dame Sybil Thorndike)
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to the needs of the average man
and woman.
The obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early m the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study.
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that they were once afraid of.
They seek and get better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, m
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress.
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
“ and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice.
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitutes a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear on the
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 11255.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “Tbie Efficient Mind?’ I 6
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
•118
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
6. k/ m SjtiA^Ux
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send SO/-.)
X
■■■■■' .■■
r 'y ,*yr }' ,0# ..*' ■•• ••• .
o’
A\®
*><* *V
*v
V s '
o 1
.i
t*
,• .• • ’ v
•* .*** x * e Vv> vV 0<
</s* A^ S


k
mmmm
wmmm
mvMmiM
I
HEW DISCOVERY
R — Qmc/clif:
Rreat Distribution of 1000 TRIAL
TREATMENTS This Month!
USE COUPON BELOW
</. Kelso Murchison Will Banish Your Baldness~Oß NO COSTi
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“Hair Growing Like Wildfire”
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the
hair. The month isn’t quite up yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait
that long. 1 could have told you, after one application, that your
treatment would certainly grow hair. I have used a lot of different
‘restorers’ in my time, but yours is the only one that I ever used
that I have had any faith in. You said it would cure dandruff in
one week. Well, I can beat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in
one night. It has completely changed the color of my hair. It
has turned it from dry, dead, straw-looking color back to its original
shade of brown, and now, after about three weeks’ use, I have
a lot of new hair growing all over my head. It’s growing like
wildfire. I might mention that 1 never gave your treatment a
very fair go, either.” E. J. REYNOLDS, M., N.S.W.
Test it yourself—NOW!
NOW, you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in your own home —
under any condition you like, and if it doesn’t grow new hair,- rid you of
dandruff or any other hair trouble you suffer from within 30 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING! —not a penny. But you must hurry; this offer may never be
repeated ; it places you under no obligation; all you have to do is to post that
coupon NOW ! '
j
What I Discovered About Hair
TT does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you are fast
going bald—or -what you have tried! I know you have not
used the RIGHT method! My own hair fell out in handfuls
until I fast began to go bald. I tried everything; but now I
have a thick, lustrous growth of hair —thanks to the important
discovery that—
Hair “Seeds’’still live in bald heads
T HAVE proved, as in actual cases quoted opposite, that the
* hair “seeds” frequently remain alive in bald heads for a
number of years. In the greater majority of such cases, new
hair can be grown, provided that the real causes of the trouble
are known, and the correct scientific treatment applied. Hundreds
of men and women from all over Australasia have grown new
hair this wonderful new way. Just read the letters opposite
received from these grateful people—surely this is proof enough.
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
’ I 'HEY never have 1 —because it is impossible! There is one
underlying principle that stimulates New Hair Growth—that
principle is involved in the new Ivelso Murchison Treatment! It’s
a new way—entirely different and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new angle. With it
you can stop your hair troubles overnight.
Don’t waste more time and money on worth-
less “tonics” and “hair restorers,” but accept
my great offer and watch your liair grow! Gat
this special offer coupon in the post to-day!
It Does Not Matter
IT does not matter how long-standing your hair
* or scalp trouble may be; it does not matter
what you have tried—J. Kelso Murchison is
prepared to PROVE to you beyond all doubt,
and without your risking one penny, that YOU
CAN DEFINITELY GROW NEW HAIR—if you
This Offer Expires Shortly!
SEND this COUPONS
J. Kelso Murchison, Laboratory 94,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney.
Name
Address
27/5/’36
READ THIS CONVINCING PROOF FROM
GRATEFUL MEN AND WOMEN!
'
Proves Other Testimonials
—by His Own Results.
“I have carried out your instruc-
tions and have had wonderful
results. Before having anything to
do with your course myself, I was
very dubious about the results
other people have achieved. But
now I know all those letters to be
true by my own experience. My
dandruff is gone, and my hair has
regained its sheen, and oh! how
wonderful it is to have a clean
scalp and not to be afraid to take
off one’s hat for fear of showing
thick dandruff.”
M. HARDWICK, S.. N.Z.
tm
The ageing effect of Bald-
ness upon one’s appear-
ance could not be more
strikingly depicted than
in this picture, which
shows the same individual
with a new growth of
hair. He looks at least
20 years younger.
Was Bald for 16 Years—
Hair Now Growing.
“Hair has started to grow over
the bald parts, which have been
bald for 16 years.”
G. L. HORTON, O., S.A.
'•/ySy-
A luxuriant growth of lovely hair,
vibrant with the charm of health,
may now be obtained if you post
the coupon below now!
Hair Coming Rapidly.
“1 wish to thank you for vour wonderful
method for hail. I started with your
method on the 1st of December, and on
the 3rd my hair had almost stopped
falling out, and now the new hair is
coming rapidly,”
—S. A. MCDONALD, T., N.S.W,
Hair Has Im-
proved Wonder-
fully.
“After following your
course of natural hair
growing for 30 days,
my hair has improved
wonderfully. I have
not only noticed it, but
others ask me what 1
have been doing to
my hair.”
S. KEARNEY, G.
A strong, healthy heat
of hair is perhaps yo
greatest social asset
You, too, can gro
new hair.
Improved Wonderfully!
“Having- used your hair course, i must say that I have
had good results. It has often been remarked to me
as to what: I have been putting- on iny hair, as it has
improved wonderfully. There is no doubt it ha’
improved greatly; my hair always had a dry look, but
now it is soft and has a good gloss, and has become
much thicker.”
—J. W. CARLON, U., N.&W.
Bald Patches Growing Hair.
“Before 1 started to use your hair treatment my hair
was falling- out that much that I thought I would be
bald iu a short time. Thanks to your wonderful treat-
ment, the bald patches on my scalp are growing hair
very rapidly, and I would recommend your hair treat-
ment as th. 1 best in the world. It has cured my
dandruff and my hair is 100 per cent, better.”
—W. A. PEARSON, P., N.S.IV.
Never Thought Hair
Would' Grow Again.
‘-‘My hair is growing very nicely
on top of my head, and is also
starting in front. I had thought
that my hair would never grow
again, but you have proved this
to be a fallacy. I never realised
how badly I must have suffered
from dandruff, but now, thanks
to you, all signs of it have dis-
appeared.”
—h. ROBERTS, N., N.S.M.
Well Satisfied!
“I am well satisfied with the
course. I can see new hair glow-
ing on the bald patches.”
—R. SPRY, Y., S.A.
Recommends Course to
Anybody.
“I thought I must write a few
lines to you about my hair. I
can safely say now that my hair
has stopped falling out, and will
certainly recommend your course
to anybody in need of same, as I
think it is cheap at the price.”
N. BARTHOLOMAEUS, M„ S.A.
Very Pleased with Results!
“I have been following your hair
culture for a little over a month,
and am, very pleased with the
results.”
—J. P. KEEN, G., N.S.W.
Wonderful Results!
“I have been using your hair
treatment for one month, with
wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It has
stopped falling out, and all the
dandruff has disappeared, also the
itchy scalp. Where it used to
be short and thin it has grown
much longer and thicker. My
hair seems as though it has new
life in it, - thanks to you. I
think your course wonderful and
so easy to do.”
Miss M. DAUMANN, M., N.S.W.
LABORATORY, 94 Lombardi Chambers, Pitt Street,
N.S.W.
30 Days AMAZING TRIAI Offer!
