

it: i
s
w.
A
r
TW
k*i
Hint
V!
m
rH [ %
m
vl
S
%
%
X
\
V
f
«
R
iV
/j.J
1
W
I
SERVICE
IN the fierce glare of a relentless sun. . . , a blister-
ing heat that seems to sap the very life-giving
energy. . . .he works, a gaunt, sunburnt figure
.... the Overland Telegraph linesman.
In the hands of this man —one of a tireless, keen-
eyed band-r-is the responsibility of keeping open
one of Australia’s vital communication links. He
renders the community an invaluable SERVICE.
Just as surely the House of Hamilton’s is rendering
a public service. . , .a service which is operating day
in, day out, a vital link in the financial system of
Australasia.
Shares in ESTABLISHED Companies of proved
dividend-earning capacity, backed by adequate
tangible assets, form the basis of all offerings from
Hamiltons (Australasia), Limited.
Data covering such service, together with the
monthly circular “PROFITS," is available free on
application to
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.) *
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE,
fi PO Rnx •
Commonweatlh Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
iH
Chamber of Manufacturers' Bldg.,
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
“Pine Land Investments ” (Page 39)
Vol. 57.—N0. 2942.
Wednesday, July 1, 1986.
Price 6d.
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a ISTewspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
FREAKS
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT HEBE AND MAIL ■
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, us
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name . • -
My Address * * .....
S.B. 336 :>
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
1o recognise the services lo Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature. _
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
U published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rales in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates. , ‘
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, ip which the entrants will retaini . all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
* Australian resident or any imsod bora in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Bacihc sLmds will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unp - ' . b
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the Hue nan ,
of the author must accompany each entry in r deds?cm
which will not be opened until the judges have
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other niters arising
the contest. The trustees, whose address is- 25- Georgc st cel
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the I uze jl no woik.. s > b .
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy ot an awai • , .
occur in any year, the amount ot the Inzc will
following year's Prize.
The Red Page
LITERARY
FREAKS
A paragraph
which caught my
eye in an English
literary periodical
recently went
something 1i k e
this:
Mrs. Florence Riddell’s sixteenth novel,
Royal Wedding, is an up-to-date Ruri-
tanian romance. Much of it was thought
out while floating in Droitwich brine
swimming bath, where one cannot sink, no
matter how weighty one’s thoughts may be.
Judging by the speed with which some
people approach the task of writing a
book, 1 should not be at all surprised]to
hear that they did not do any preparatory
thinking at all. Only the other day I
heard of a young lady who produced a
first novel in a week during a holiday
from her office work! And it has been
published. Then there is a gentleman
who produced a thriller and confessed:
“We only agreed that I should start writ-
ing it on October 23, and the book was
bound and published by the middle of
November.”'
Then, again, there is Mr. John Creasey,
who never takes more than ten days to
finish his books. His latest is called
Thunder in Europe. And his confession
is that between December 15, 1935, and
January 15, 1936, be wrote two novels
of 80.000 words, a boy’s adventure story
of 60,000 words, together with other
trifles, making a total of 250,000 words!
And another author, who uses four
pseudonyms, says he has turned out 53
novels in the last ten years.
Last year, of course, was a record year
iu the history of publishing—in England,
at least; and the January figures for 1936
appear to indicate that this year will see
that record surpassed. In January, 1935,
only 1156 new books were published in
England, but this year the total has risen
lo 1255.
So necessarily publishers must adopt
all sorts of antics to attract attention to
their wares. The latest thing in the pub-
lishing line is a novel with colored leaves!
This honor has fallen on. Miss Hebe
Eisna’s new novel, Crista Moon, which
Rich and Cowan have turned out, The
pages are duck-egg blue in color,
edged with royal blue at the top, and
the end papers arc leaf-green. It is sup-
posed to be an attempt to minimise eye-
strain, and possibly also it has a tonic
effect on the reader to support him
across the duller parts of the narrative.
I have not read the book, so 1 only sur-
mise that there are duller portions. But,
doubtless, here we are on the eve of a
new dispensation in publishing. Tinted
paper is bound to have a vogue. And
maybe some day each author will run, so
to speak, under his own colors, which
will be registered by the Authors’ Racing
Club.
Another new departure in this same
Held is to produce characters veiled in
anonymity. In a new book two of
'he characters are X and Y. The prin-
cipal male character is X and the heroine
is Y. And, appositely enough, the book
is entitled X plus Y. But it: has nothing
at all to do with Social Credit. 1 have
not read the book, but I fancy it moves
about the theme of social discredit; and
it is probably an attempt to evade the
somewhat expansive libel laws which ter-
rify the average author and are the night-
mare of publishers:
During 1935 there was a number of
big libel, actions in England, successfully
brought against authors and publishers
on account of the names that were be-
stowed on characters in their books. The
trouble, so far as it affects publishers, is
that, though they are really indemnified
against the results of libel actions of this
sort by the terms of their agreements with
the authors, it very often happens that
the poor author is too poor to fork out
the necessary cash —when the libel action
goes against him. And, though the author
exposes himself toxheavy damages, he is
invariably innocent. It is enough for
some obscure person, bearing the same
name as a character in the book, to bring
forward a plea that he has suffered by
the portrayal and the author (or pub-
lisher) has to foot a bill for heavy dam-
ages. The disavowal, usually printed on
the flyleaf, that “all the characters in this
book are fictitious” carries no protection
for thc\author. And a stage has now
been reached when it seems almost im-
possible to provide a name for characters
in a book, no matter how curious, which
cannot be found somewhere or other in
real life.
Of course there was a time, before
characters were born, when “types”—
such as “A Diviqe,” “A Pedant,” “A
Gallant,” “A Melancholy Man,” “A
Usurer,” “An Arrant Knave,” “A Servant
Man,” “A Town Miss” and so on —took
their place. And maybe we shall have
to go back to the literature of types ;
for, after all, this X plus Y business is
apt to get a bit confusing. And, to me
personally at least, it sounds a trifle im-
personal.
GERALD DILLON.
Chesterton’s
Philosophy
I remc rnber
Gilbert Chester-
ton, pestered in
a Belgravia draw-
ing-room to read
his poems (in an armchair, Chesterton
was grotesquely huge, though when he
stood he was like a mountain), rising and
reciting in his high voice: —
I know where men can still be found,
Anger and clamorous accord,
And virtues growing from the ground,
And fellowship of beer and board,
And song, that is a sturdy cord,
And hope, that is a hardy shrub,
And goodness, that is God’s last word —•
Will someone take me to a pub?
In this habit he has already entered
the literary legend of England. Chester-
ton indeed was a legend before he was
30, for in a world of pallid men and
sterile art, he was like an army march-
ing: and on the whole the legend does
represent an authentic character of the
man. His tremendous exuberance and
vitality and sturdy Englishry were com-
pletely native to him: there was not an
ounce of affectation in him. Neverthe-
less, the legend has somewhat obscured
the greatest qualities of his work.
To those familiar with the Distributist
Leagues and their influence on the genera-
tion of to-day, his influence is apparent:
and it was not the drinking songs which
inspired Distributism (though admittedly
they contribute to the zest of Distribu-
tist meetings), but the grimly realistic
view of our contemporary problems and
the tough core of thought in all his writ-
ing, even in his wildest fantasy.
Chesterton, like Ruskin and Carlyle
before him, insisted that a civilisation
was to be judged, not by the material
achievements and not by its social and
political machinery, but by the values
which prevailed in it, by its conception
of human personality, by its way of life.
And he saw from the first, as many of
us have come to siee since, that in the
conditions of modern life the ultimate
values of the European tradition and the
ultimate worth of personality are dan-
gerously threatened.
Chesterton has been called a re-
actionary ; he was not. He was a revo-
lutionary, and the revolution he de-
manded and worked for was a funda-
mental revolution, a revolution of values.
In mass civilisation, Chesterton saw the
death of personality and of true liberty ;
and he asked whether mass civilisation
was worth what it cost.
His revolutionary doctrine was a doc-
trine of liberty, It was reactionary only
in the sense that it reasserted the ancient
tradition of Europe, and that it drew its
philosophic substance from the peren-
nial philosophy, the Christian conception
of man’s personality, which is surely the
highest conception of man’s personality
we have achieved. In the face of the
universe, man stands free. He is like
God in that he possesses the power to
inform matter with his idea, to conceive
and to shape. This, the spirit breathed
into him, is the unique in man, that
which makes him man. And it is this
which is threatened in the mass civili-
sations.
For Chesterton Iho totalitarian State
was no solution : rather did it confirm the
worst effects of the present. Marxism
accepts the values of the existing order:
all it demands is a modification of ihe
machinery and a change of directors.
And the conditioning of vast popula-
tions to be good little Nazis or good
little Communists, the appalling refusal
of liberty implied in the processes of
conditioning, seemed to him the final
and cynical denial of man as man. His
Distributism is a philosophy, not a par'y
platform. But it is a dynamic philo-
sophy. It demands a right liberty and the
moral and material bases of right, liberty.
Chesterton’s defence of private properly-:
was a defence of man’s right to the |
economic basis of liberty: where prop-
erty was controlled by a single class;
a minority or the State it was obvious
to him that liberty must perish. But bo
property he understood that which is
proper to a man’s legitimate develop-
ment, not that which can become an in-
strument for exploiting his fellows. Hey
saw clearly that economic and political
machinery is the effect, not cause, of the
prevalent values and the moral character
of society.
It is this doctrine to which Chesterton
gave his life and genius: and the re-
markable growth of the Distribute
Leagues in. recent years indicates its
power to persuade the new generations.
I have often thought that Distributism
was the philosophy which best-rational-
ises the Australian ideal. Marxism is
not native to our temperament, and Aus-
tralian Labor is distracted by its intru-
sion. What we want for our people is
security and liberty, self-reliance and
self-command.
Chesterton was more than a journal-
ist, for he brought: to the issues of each
day the test of philosophic principles, of
our whole tradition, of our culture.
Through the extraordinary variety of his
subjects his attitude is constant, for it
is grounded on a complete and coherent
philosophy. In an age of specialists he
remained the full man, the universal
man of the humane ideal. All his life he
fought: never in England has there been
such a controversialist: and he has not
left an enemy.
D. P. McGUIRE.
"Port
Tarascon”
In the review of
The Phan to m
Para dise (R-P-
-27/5/’36) it is
said, apropos of
the settlers’ adventures in New Ireland,
that great short stories could be fashioned
of them. Actually the whole wretched
affair was the inspiration for Port
Tarascon, the last of Daudet’s great Tar-
tarin series. But Daudet makes a bur-
lesque out of it, and it is the impetuous,
garlic-loving Tarasconians whom he
sends out: to colonise in “the South
Seas/’ However, the Marquis de Rays
(of The Phantom Paradise ) is there as
the villainous Duke—“the man from the
North” —who is the prime mover of the
scheme. It is like Daudet that he should
cause the whole population of the town
to depart on a wild-goose chase. Never-
theless, to our heartfelt relief, a great
many of the delightful Tarasconians are
spared to return to their equally delight-
ful town. But, alas! the splendid Tar-
tafin is for ever discredited with. hiS;
fellow-townsmen, who, before this, re-
garded him as the glory of Tarascon.
Broken-hearted, he crosses the river to
Tarascon’s great rival, and dies there
shortly afterwards.
D. M.
Cinema
as Art
The purpose of
Paul Rotha in
D oc u m e n tary
Film (Faber and
Faber; 12s. 6d.
net) is to deline how cinema can be
art consistently, instead of, as hitherto,
only occasionally and by fluke. He
appreciates the entertainment merits of
“the illustrated story derived from
theatrical and literary tradition” which
has been almost the whole achievement
of commercial cinema, but he sees no
hope of art therein. His hope is in the
kind qf film now apparently building
strongly in England in spite of having
been handicapped at birth with the mon-
strous name “documentary,” used as a
noun! A lustier name would be far to
find, but art has emerged through worse.
The documenlalist, like the news-reel
maker, deals with actualities, but he goes
infinitely further than the mere reporter:
he dramatises; his fllm need tell no
“story” nor have a “plot” in the Holly-
wooden sense of “story” and “plot, ’ but,
as distinct from mere camera reporting,
if must have theme, unity, purpose ; it
must be constructed to produce an effect.
The documentalist’s job is putting
“people and t|ieir problems, their labor
and their service, before themselves.”
His is a job of presenting one-half of
ihe populace to The other ; of bringing a
deeper and more intelligent social analysis
to bear upon the whole cross-section of
modern society; exploring its weaknesses, •
reporting its events, dramatising its experi-
ences and suggesting a. wider and more
sympathetic understanding among the pre-
vailing class of society. He does not seek
to draw conclusions, but rather to make a
statement of the case so that, conclusions
may be drawn. His world is in the streets,
the homes, the lactories and the work-
shops of the people, presenting this experi-
ence and that event to make his point.
The job, as one of* the most notable
documentalists, John Grierson, defines it,
is the “creative treatment of actuality.”
Among the new forms in which cinema
has come alive outside the artificial story-
film of the commercial studios,
somewhat beyond !he simple descriptive
terms of the teaching film, more imagina-
tive and expressive than the specific pub-
licity picture, deeper in meaning and more
skilful in style than tire news-reel, wider
in observation than the travel picture or
lecture film, more profound in implication
and reference than the pla n “interest” pic-
ture, there lies Documentary. And the
documentary method may well be described
as the birth of creative cinema.
Because it deals as much in actuality
as does the news-reel, a good explanation
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVER TI SING”—A l ways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
4 ‘While / Live I’ll Gn
&k
m
&4
WRITE FOR
OUR NEW
SALE
CATALOGUE
•
POST FREE ON
REQUEST.
Year lu
★
Ot\i
STANDARD MAKES
AT GENUINE
SALE PRICES
A
35/- .22 cal. “SPORTSMAN”
Always a favourite Rifle . . . and
here it is at a genuine saving of
5/-. Single-shot bolt action,
fitted with a 24in. tapered
barrel. Solidly made and
I.
finished. Price 35/
Sale Price 30/
FREAKS
£5/15/
SPORTING RIFLES
Well balanced and properly
made, this Rifle will give you
years of satisfactory service. It
is a .303 Calibre Sporting Rifle
of the long Lee Enfield design,
97/6
cut down and reconditioned. Price .... £5/15/-
Sale Price 97/6
FREAKS
10/6 RELOADING CARTRIDGE
SHELL SET
This Set was designed to meet the
requirements of hundreds of men who
8/6
en
an
enjoy the sport of shooting. The Set is most efficient,
d every man who possesses a gun should buy one
of these reloading Cartridge Shell Sets. Without
cleaning rod. 12, 16, 20 gauges. Price .... 10/6
Sale Price, set 8/6
USE OUR D.P.S.
Our Deposit Purchase System
has been established for the
convenience of both city and
country customers. Goods
will be held aside on pay-
ment of a deposit of not less
than 20 p.c. (4/- in the £).
At least one payment of a
reasonable amount per
month must be made, and
on completion of final pay-
ment goods will be for-
warded according to your
instructions.
CARTRIDGES
We offer a large assortment of
ammunition for all classes of
firearms. Here are some well-
known makes, famous for their
great accuracy and high power.
.22 Savage Hi-Power Cartridges.
Price per 100 ~ . 37/6
Sale Price per 100 ...... 35/-
250/3000 Hi-Power Cartridges.
Price per 100 40/-
Sale Price per 100. 35/-
.303 Mark VI Rifle Cartridges.
Price per 100 12/6
Sale Price per 100 10/-
310 Cadet Smokeless Cartridges.
Price per 100 . . 22/6
Sale Price per 100 18/6
297/230 Long Smokeless English
Cartridges. Price per 100 . . 18/6
Sale Price per 100 ...... 15/6
297/230 Short Smokeless English
Cartridges.
Price per 100 17/6
Sale Price per 100 14/6
9m/m Winchester Long Shot
Cartridges.
Price per 100 8/3
Sale Price per 100 5/-
HALF PRICE
CARTRIDGES
38 S. & W. Revolver Cartridges.
Price 10/-
Sale Price 5/-
32 Long Colt Revolver Cart-
ridges. Price 7/6
Sale Price 4/-
38 Automatic Pistol. Price, 15/-
Sale Price 7/6
380 Automatic Pistol. Price, 15/-
Sale Price 7/6
£l4lO-
- HAMMERLESS GUN
Exceptionally fine balance and
beauty of design have made this
gun very popular. It is a 20-gauge
£ll‘io/-
English Hammerless Gun with 30in. steel barrels, nitro-
proved, left choke, right modified. Made by Fred
Williams, Birmingham. The saving of £3 is worth con-
sidering. Price .. £l4/10/-. Sale Price .. £ll/10/-
FREAKS
47/6 9m/m BROWNING
A thoroughly good Browning
Single-shot Bolt-action Gun.
Price 47/6
Sale Price 37/6
9m/m Long Shot Cartridges.
37te
Price, 100 8/3. Sale Price, 100 5/-
FREAKS
£lO
GENUINE BAYARD 12 gauge
1 his Gun is one of the most
popular of its type offering. It
is a genuine Bayard 12-gauge
£B/1 ol-
D.8.8.L. Hammer Gun. It has a 30in. steel barrel.
Chambered for 2|-in. cartridges. Price £lO
Sale Price ..... £B/10/-
FREAKS
£l3/13/-
Wm. CASH MORE GUN
Noted for its hard shooting
qualities. Wm. Cashmore, 12-
gauge D.8.8.L. Top Lever Gun.
BlLliZ VS
Crossbolt action, steel barrels, left choke, engine-
turned rib, well-figured walnut stock, horn heelplate.
Deeley and Edge fore-end. Well finished. Specially
proved for nitro powders. Price £l3/137-
Sale Price £l2/17/6
FREAKS
£2/15/-
SINGLE-BARREL SHOT GUN
An excellent gun at a
genuine saving of 5/-. 12,
16, 20 Gauge Single Barrel
Hand R. Shot Guns. 30in.
barrel. Price 55/-
Sale Price 50/-
50 1-
• Guns and Ammunition —Lower Ground
Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
ANTHONY
HORDERN
& SONS Ltd.,
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


of it is contained in a contrasted defini-
tion of these two kinds of cinema:
The news-reel’s job is to present in
simple descriptive terms and within the
minimum of time the events of the day,
in itemised form without bias or special
viewpoint. Documentary’s task, on the
contrary, is the dramatisation and bend-
ing to special purpose of actuality, a
method that demands time for thought and
time for selection.
The form is further clarified by de-
scription of a Grierson film, “Drifters,”
which “laid the foundation of documen-
tary” in England. “Drifters”
brought to the screen the labor of the
North Sea herring catch from such an
approach that the ordinary person was
made to realise, probably for the first time,
that a herring on his plate was no mere
accepted thing, but the result of other
men’s physical toil and possibly courage.
It “brought alive” not just the routine
of the catch but the whole drama of emo-
tional values that underlay the task, inter-
preting in its stride the unconscious beauty
of physical labor in the face of work done
for a livelihood. Moreover, there was
brought to the conception all the poetic
qualities of ships,, sea and weather. In
other words, Grierson took a simple theme
(there for the taking), took actually exist-
ing material (there for the shooting), and
built a dramatised film by interpreting the
relationships of his theme and material in
the sphere of daily existence.
Anyone who takes an intelligent in-
terest in cinema—or who sees no good
reason for doing so —might have the field
of his vision and thought incalculably
widened through this book. It' is repeti-
tive and has other faults as a book, but
it does open up a vista of a new adven-
ture of art.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
DLAYS appear so rarely in book form
* in Australia that the publishing of
Sydney Tomholt’s Bleak Dawn and
Other Plays deserves some special cele-
bration, such as setting fire to the title.
For if there is one charge that can be
laid against most of our honest play-
wrights it is that they are forbiddingly
bleak, and nothing, I imagine, could be
more uncompromisingly bleak than a
bleak dawn. And Mr. Tomholt’s title-
piece is, though fancifully, not unsuit-
ably labelled.
One purpose of the playwright Mr.
Tomholt serves: he gives actors some-
thing to act. He might be said to do it
ruthlessly: at any rate, I should hate to
see his title-piece played by any but
supremely good actors. And then I
should be grateful to Mr. Tomholt for
giving them a cause to exercise their art,
rather than grateful to him for this par-
ticular exercise of his. I have no doubts
about' the mechanics of the piece. He
has his people there together in com-
plete naturalness. The dialogue, save in
one or two spots, is very sound. As a
projection of low-life character the thing
is excellent. My feeling about it, as a
play, is that it is no more than good
low-life study, honestly done. The theme
—the obstinate love that might make a
woman want even a brutish ex-husband
back again—is of doubtful quality,
though it has been sentimentalised a lot.
The piece needs, I think, a twist, a de-
velopment, to lift it above mere com-
petent reporting and give it meaning.
To my mind the best of these 10 in-
teresting one-acters, regarded as theatre,
is “Anoli the Blind”; slightly melo-
dramatic, perhaps, but what good theatre
play is without a touch of that? It re-
tains attractive atmosphere notwithstand-
ing that it is set in a bush hut in Queens-
land : a tense piece of drama acted out
by three Italians ; a completely realised
incident; a rounded and finished play
that even indifferent acting would not
destroy.
Through these two plays, and through
all the others, save one, runs the theme
of suffering. That and a rather conven-
tional mysticism are the main materials
of this playwright. At least one of the
mystical pieces, “The Women Wait,”
should make good theatre, not difficult
to put over satisfactorily. The other
mystical pieces would be good only if
supremely well acted: given that, “The
Woman Mary”—a striking Biblical talk-
ing piece, which reads excellently—might
possibly be the pick of the collection.
By design or accident there are oddly
many pure blank verse lines tangled up
in its prose: from the stage I should
think they’d tend to stilt the dialogue.
“Leading Lady,” the only comedy, is
proof enough that the playwright could
do the lightest of theatre if he wished.
It, “Anoli the Blind” and “The Women
Wait” should all be good repertory
pieces. So should “Dimmed Lights,'’
though its idea is a trifle hackneyed.
Mr. Tomholt is a sincere, honest
writer, getting some genuine feeling of
his own expressed.
* * * *
I can see little trace of any such real
feeling in the English playwrights of
The Best One-act Plays of 1935. Half
these 13 pieces might be better reper-
tory entertainment than Mr. Tomholt
supplies, but the best of them hasn’t any-
thing like his intense personal feeling.
They're nearly all highly polished ; the
last word in finished one-act play-mak-
ing ; dressy and pretty with bright ideas ;
parlor pieces which, even when they deal
in low-life and murder, do so with a
sophistication that removes their subject-
matter from any real relationship with
common actuality.
An exception is the one Australian
play, “The Ruling Passion,” by Dr. J. V.
Duhig, of Brisbane. Whatever may be
held against this piece, it at any rale
escapes the artificial sophistication of
nearly all its companions. That it escapes
to the other extreme and is raw and
crude is, I think, unhappily true, but this
must be somewhat overemphasised by
the company in which it is here surpris-
ingly found. Some emphasis of the same
sort must be given also by its subject
matter, people and surroundings. The
theme is, of course, our ruling passion
for horseracing, and the idea of this is
well conveyed, even though the means
are rather raw. The setting is in the
bar of a Queensland far outback pub,
where the publican is the local bookie.
The leading character is the trainer of a
mare that is racing that day in Brisbane,
and other characters are his wife and the
sporty lads of the place. What the trainer
is doing there when the mare is racing in
Brisbane is not explained, and the play-
wright is rocky, also, in his knowledge
of betting: for example, the betting opens
at the English odds of 100 to 3 against
the mare, who starts at 15 to 1, and this
is held to establish that she had not been
backed “down in Brisbane.” All the bet-
ting matter is like that; some of it worse.
But it is in its general effect rather than
in details that the play rings false. It
seems forced. The dialogue, here and
there, gets the Australian idiom per-
fectly ; Dr. Duhig does get his theme
conveyed, and his play is something solid
in the midst' of much artificiality.
Not. that these plays are not good of
their kind. As reading they are first-
rate entertainment, and they are so com-
petently done that to read almost any
one of them is to see it being acted.
“Comrades in Arms” would make an up-
roarious half-an-evening’s entertainment;
with “Waiter” for the second half
of the programme any capable reper-
tory crowd should do good busi-
ness. “The Clock Strikes Ten” with
“The Maid of Domremy” or “Back to
Adam” is another of several good com-
binations. Pretty well everything in the
collection has that sort of merit; but the
feeling I get from all this work is that
which I have also had from collections
of English short stories, and verse, too,
over the last few years: that whatever it
is that the competent people in England
want' to express just now, it is also some-
thing they desire to avoid. At any rate,
I ploughed through all these plays with-
out finding more than a hint or two of
the honest sincerity of Mr. Tomholt.
But as light, sparring entertainment I
found nearly all of them capital reading,
as they would make capital theatre also.
* * * *
Much more vital stuff in the O. Henry
Memorial Prize Stories, 1935. For indi-
vidual story merit, I should say the first-
prize winner, Kay Boyle’s “The White
Horse of Vienna,” is easily the best of
the collection. It is a very beautiful
short story, magnificently set among
Tyrolese mountains, finely peopled, its
action bright and varied, and its contents
altogether remarkably lavish for its
brevity. But what struck me much more
than this story —which seems foreign to
all the rest of the work —was the virility
and sincerity of the other stories as a
whole. There is an honest pulse of sin-
cere expression beating in them which
cannot, 1 think, be felt in any such col-
lection of recent English work. It seems,
too, to have temporarily gone out of
our own: there is doubtless competence
enough, but the story of any real feeling
is hard to come across. Among these
American writers that is the most arrest-
ing quality. At least a dozen of these
19 tales are built of it. Some, such as
“A Writer Interviews a Banker,” are ex-
periments in expression that do not come
off, but even here there is the feeling
that the writer was trying to get some-
thing authentic expressed; and when
these experimenters do bring it off, as
William Saroyan does in “Five Ripe
Pears” or Jerome Weidman in “My
Father Sits in the Dark,” how very well
they do do it!
It is a good collection of stories in
other respects. There is a solid bracing
of true short stories in it —that is, com-
plete short pieces of fiction that cannot
be called anything but short stories.
There is plenty of humor; altogether, it
is an exceptionally bright' lot, varied in
scenes, characters and ideas.
C.M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION ...
Restless Tides: J. Strang Morrison
(Blackwood ; 7s. 6d.). Adventure, red-
blooded in spots, but overpadded holiday
incidents tame it. Set on Scotland’s west
coast, where mates, yachting, discover
illicit mining by a Foreign Power.
Racing Demon : J. E. Hasted (Collins ;
7s. 6d.). Villain three times attempts to
kidnap her; several times tries to murder
her. Still she does not love him. A
lot of track racing at Brooklands thrown
in to fill up.
Yellow Half moons: “Sinbad” (Harrap ;
7s. 6d.). A gentlemanly beachcomber ;
miscegenation ; a brindled damsel whose
pa is a missionary ; villainous Resident
Commissioner. Hero perishes miserably
on p. 298. Sexy.
The Rocket: Jeffery Marston (Michael
Joseph ; 7s. 6d.). Hero’s an unmitigated
scoundrel who rises to millionairedom by
London speculating, to be squashed when
the fatter magnates begin to feel his
sting. Don Juanish private life thrown
in. Superficial, but lively time-killer.
O. Henry Memorial Prize Stories, 1935
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). Interesting. See
Satchel.
PLAYS . . .
Bleak Dawn and Other Plays: Sydney
Tomholt (Angus and Robertson; 65.).
Interesting. See Satchel.
The Best One-act Plays of 1935 (Har-
rap ; 7s. 6d.). Interesting. See Satchel.
BIOGRAPHY . . .
Our Marie (Marie Lloyd): Naomi
Jacob (Hutchinson ; 18s. net). Sentimen-
tal, but gets Marie’s story told, and that
of English variety when it was bright.
POETRY . . .
Noah and the Waters: C. Day Lewis
(Hogarth Press ; 7s. 6d.). Noah’s John
Bull incog. ; the Flood's Communism ;
three Burgesses (representative bour-
geoisie) urge Bull alias Noah to fight
Flood; Voices urge boarding ark and
riding on it; Bull adopts latter course ;
Burgesses abusively disgusted ; rest highly
delighted. Mr. Lewis missed a marvel-
lous opportunity to rib his smartness
with iron; as Bull alias Noah floats
away, he could have had the chorus
come in with the surely appropriate
finale;
Rule Britannia, Britannia rules the waves!
LITERARY CRITICISM . . .
Poets and Prophets: Andre Maurois
(Cassell; 13s. 6d.). Pleasant interpreta-
tive lectures for French audiences on
Kipling, Shaw, Chesterton, Conrad,
Strachey, Lawrence, Aldous Huxley,
Katherine Mansfield and Wells. Worst
slip: “Lawrence wrote Kangaroo in col-
laboration.” Names as the English
writers most read in France, outside the
literati, Shakspeare, Swift ( Gulliver only),
Defoe ( Crusoe only), Dickens and Kip-
ling.
GENERAL ...
Documentary Film: Paul Rotha
(Faber and Faber; 12s: 6d. net). See
“Cinema as Art,” p. 2. Exceptionally
interesting.
The Brass Band Movement: J. F.
Russell and J. H. Elliot (Dent; 55.).
Mostly history of the famous bands of
the English Midlands, with synopsis of
the evolution of modern brass instru-
ments. A little about European bands ;
the U.S.A. is scarcely mentioned.
Educating a Democracy (Angus and
Robertson ; 55.). Papers read at a con-
ference of the Australian Institute of
Political Science, mostly by profs, and
headmasters. Purport: “The essence of
education in a democracy is a free com-
merce in ideas.”
Name This Child: Eric Partridge
(Methuen ; 6s. net). Brightly phrased
discursive dictionary of Christian names
which prospective attendants at the font
will ignore at their peril. “Aggie is cer-
tainly to be avoided,” but “Susan is
taking refuge, with Betty, Peggy, Jane
and Ann, among the aristocracy, while
Gladys and Muriel reign below stairs.”
Algernon signifies “whiskered.” Good.
A Foreigner Looks at A ustralia: Paul
Staal (Cape; Angus and Robertson ;
Bs. 6d.). Author was Netherlands
Consul-General at Sydney. He’s pungent
on Lang and other famous saviours.
We’re upholding a discredited democ-
racy ; workers are on too good a wicket ;
what we want’s a Hitler. Interesting.
Various Verse
Roundelay.
fearlessly singing a sorrowful song,
1 met with Grief in a sombre vale:
“Now cease these plaints of pitiful wrong,
For I shall tell you a sorrier tale:
“There was a lover bold and strong,
And sighed for love of a lady fair,
But though he pleaded oft and long
She left him lonely to despair:
Tearlessly singing a sorrowful song,
He met a girl, her cheeks were pale”:
“Now cease these plaints of pitiful wrong,
For I shall tell you a sorrier tale:
“I had a lover bold and strong,
And loved him as the flower the sun;
Wearied, he left me alone ere long
To lengthen the life of another one:
Tearlessly singing a sorrowful song,
I met a man, he was old and frail”:
“Now cease these plaints of pitiful wrong,
For I shall tell you a sorrier tale:
“I was a lover bold and strong,
And loved a girl, and she loved me;
Years since then have been lonely and long,
When I buried her under a cypress-tree:
Tearlessly singing a sorrowful song,
1 met a ghost in the wind and the hail”:
“Now cease these plaints of pitiful wrong,
For I shall tell you a sorrier tale:
“Tearlessly singing a sorrowful song,
I heard a voice where the Shades prevail”:
“Now cease these plaints of pitiful wrong,
For I shall tell you a sorrier tale.”
N.s.w.
RONALD McCUAIG.
The Clouds.
How inferior the moon's pretence to power!
Over her powdered face clouds chase clouds,
Like truant urchins climbing an ivory tower,
Sooting the silvered stairs in rabble crowds.
She looks disdainful, the patrician moon,
Cold and aloof, as heaven’s mistress should;
She cannot see where the lovers swoon
Down in the smudgy hollows of the wood.
Why should she come, with hard enamelled
face,
Ice in her veins, to cast her glance of scorn
On two whoso blood is red, in lovers’ trysting-
place,
Hugging the shadows, plucking the human
thorn?
The urchins of the heights play touch and tig,
Their aerial hour high-swung from guttered
slums,
Sweet as the syrup of the bee-sought fig,
Light as the wind that harps the shadowed
gums.
Sun dust blows gold high up the regal drive,
The moon sinks in a hill’s cleft hard and
black;
The lovers turn and murmur, “Is it five?”
And, sighing, rise and stumble down the
track.
QUEENSLAND.
B. VREPONT.
A Summer Dusk.
So white, so slight, a breath could snuff you
out,
What have you but yourself, pale wavering
flame,
To light you through the woods when darkness
comes?
With silver bells on saffron reins the gums
Are jingling in the harness of the sun,
And you as they the dusk may dare to flout;
For candleflames are drowned in day’s blue
drought,
Their weakness hid: and yet when light is
done
What have you but yourself, pale wavering
flame?
Night that reveals you gently as the moon
Heightens and whitens now your flute, your
beauty,
And yet the creamy moonrise of your limbs,
Gathering in radiance as the landscape dims
From saffron and silver, bells and leaves and
. light
And the blue thunder of the drums of noon,
Too cruelly shows you utterly alone,
Frail through the dangerous undertone of night
A moon, a flame, white wavering flute of
beauty.
If you could bring your lilied flute of flame
Closer towards the campfire of my heart,
You would be lost and safe again, and see
That skulking, shaggy monster, kin to me.
Who roves all dusks and smells of earth and
fur
Half-leave the shadows, tell us half his name.
And you would see dark trees grown swiftly
tame,
Like wild black mares with crimsoned manes
astir,
Drink deep the pool of fire you call my heart.
Come close, beloved, for the black wind swirls,
The fire burns low, as quick as candles melt,
And lonely in the shadows is your flute.
You have yourself alone to light your route,
Pale lilied flame, white wavering flute of light,
And in dark woods a dark wind wails and
whirls:
And I have seen the bodies of young girls
As smooth as candles, as slender and as white,
Go shrivelling into age as candles melt.
And their gold faces gutter and go out,
And the gold faces gutter and go out.
Maoriland.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


.. tys:-
"■■ ..". m ■■' ■■ . "1*
te\te»,v/-te: . ; -'-s?-'"
:^ ; - :
;N>:'
#
Site 'sa >5-.
m
m
i. : ,
. ■■ .:'■ : :
:
BHk..
fevte
f
m
:
ail
i
m
i
1
:.. *»«
- “Its like a liqueur
-it must be White Horse’
66
W hy, I knew it the moment
I tasted it, there’s no mistak-
ing White Horse. I believe I
could tell it in the dark” . . .
Who could be wrong when a
whisky is as fine as a fine
liqueur! Breathe that rich
fragrance, just faintly peated.
Feel that soft smoothness —
velvet and dew. Wait for the
glow that suffuses your being,
that wonderful warmth with-
out fire. There is only one
whisky like this. It must be
White Horse.
WH3B-36
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
FREAKS


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
CEOS
I
> -
♦ -
3*g»
*&•<%, J
■v
m
ym~
■ ■
:
M M
, ...<-■n:..,iSZ.
<*■■:'&• xm
mii
' /.
w s n
i
M
Mi
\
--
m
■
■
a
i»»-
i&S
■
>
m
«s#
*
1
WS
;.. ‘ • ••
of the Vast Cellars Available.
Wine-filled Casks awaiting Storage in one
Cjfat c Mherf / iate mellcumM mullmuj/ud


FREAKS
Vol. 57.—N0. 2942.
July 1, 1936.
NO SHORTAGE.
"Defence Minister Parkhill and Mr. Sydney Snow, chairman of the U.A.P., received King’s Birthday knighthoods.”
“There you are, Archie, and you, Sydney; and hold on a bit, you other U.A.P. boys! There’s plenty more!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE TRAGIC TRADE WAR.
After three days of sagging prices and “heavy with-
drawals” at the Brisbane wool sales and the Sydney
stud sheep sales, Australian land men learned on Thurs-
day what the Government at Canberra had let them
in for. It came in the form of a Tokio tariff ordinance
prohibiting imports of Australian wool, wheat and
flour except under Government license, and imposing
a 50 p.c. ad val. surtax on imports of Australian beef,
tallow, hides and skins, butter, condensed milk and
casein.
All the commodities to be surtaxed were on the
Japanese import list in 1934-35, the value in sterling
being £391,055 (beef £27,472, tallow £174,107, hides
and skins £115,382, condensed milk £42,700, casein
£31,394). For nine months of 1935-36 imports of
goods to be prohibited were valued at £14,067,614
Australian (greasy wool £12,324,836, scoured £100,031,
wheat £1,642,747); and to these are to be added
Manchurian imports of flour (£283,664 Australian),
Manchuria (or Manchukuo) being under Japanese
control.
The beginning of the week brought a blithe assur-
ance from Mr. Pearce, the Minister for External
Affairs, that “if anyone was alarmed about the pos-
sible effects of the tariff on our wool he need not be.”
Wool has been sold right through the depression.
If one country doesn't buy it, another will. If a
country denies itself the best merino it won’t have a
market for its textiles.
The gentleman was answered by Dalziel Kelly,
president of the Australian Woolgrowers’ Council,
and Douglas Boyd, president of the Graziers’ Federal
Council, who pointed out that several countries had
“denied themselves the best merino” and got along.
America, they said, had “practically ceased to buy
wool here.” And “the purchases of France, Germany,
and other ‘gold’ countries have decreased by approxi-
mately 700,000 bales as a result of their being unable
to trade with us” because of “the added burden of
double exchange —Australian to sterling and sterling
to gold.” And to this the effects of “sanctions” had
been added in the case of Italy. Thus, comparing
1932-33 with the 1935-36 season (now over, though
the figures are nominally for 11 months), German wool
purchases had dwindled from 387,503 bales to 99,692
bales, French from 435,505 to 251,892, and Italian
from 213,962 to 14,574. And now, at a most
“inopportune time for action,” there is “every possi-
bility of our losing a very considerable portion of
our Japanese market.” And “action” was taken
“without consulting the primary industries vitally
affected” and “without letting the press and the public”
into the secret of “the negotiations” which have had
such unfortunate results.
These representatives of the woolgrowers con-
cluded by stating that “the position is of such im-
portance and urgency that it justifies the holding of
a special session of Parliament.” The Minister for
Trade Treaties, who has never made a trade treaty
and is not even in the Cabinet, replied that he saw no
need for a special session, and that his Government
“would not accept dictation from an outside source.”
No Australian will “accept dictation” (though it is
questionable whether it is “dictation” for one country
to say to another “Well, if you won’t let us sell to
you, we shan’t buy from you”); but many Australians
are asking whether the Government was justified in
plunging into a trade war with the country’s second-
best customer, hoping to benefit, not Australian indus-
tries (none has been struck at) but British.
How absurd it is to suggest that John Bull, who
through all his history has shown himself eminently
capable of looking after his own affairs, should now
be dependent on the hasty expedients of Joe Lyons
and Harry Gullett! What madness in an age so
fertile of substitutes to sacrifice our magnificent wool
industry, the foundation of the national fortune (as
its English forerunner was in Tudor times), to an
exotic trade, with damnable traditions of slavery,
peonage and sweating, so that Manchester may be
placed in supreme control of a market in which it
still leads, and which is not vital to it!
Our stupid Government is meeting with rebuff
after rebuff in Britain. Dr. Page, who has been
there for nearly four months (he said he was
going to stay two weeks), had the mortification of
learning last week that the British Government had
renewed its agreement with Denmark. It seems highly
probable that the agreement with Argentina will
be renewed also. The principal Lancashire newspaper
is demanding that it should be, although Australia
is risking so much to oblige Lancashire ; and if it
is renewed Dr. Page will have completely failed to
induce the British to buy more of our butter and beef.
And, although Yorkshire bought wool at Adelaide,
Sydney and Brisbane, it has by no means fulfilled
the expectation of the trusting Mr. Stevens that it
would bid high enough to compensate for the absence
of the Japanese.
As to that, Eric Hitchins, a member of the Wool-
growers’ Council, has been reminding sheepmen in
Westralia, who, like their congeners in Queensland,
have had a bad drought, that it was Japanese com-
petition that forced Bradford to bid up:
Our friends from Bradford threatened us with much
more drastic treatment than Japan has done. Not so
very long ago they said they would refuse to attend
our sales if a minimum reserve price was placed on our
wool; their buyers would be ‘merely amused spectators.’
The Australian people are again to be sacrificed to
Bradford.
And the “Argus,” which naturally supports the
Gullett-Whiskard tariff, has revealed that British
manufacturers have been trying to grab portion of
our trade with M.L.
There has been for some time considerable agitation
in New Zealand by representatives of British manufac-
turing firms, who contend that their principals are able
to supply goods at present being imported from Aus-
tralia —steel plates, girders and reinforcing rods, steel
piping, fencing wire and wire-netting—and on equally
satisfactory terms. There is no doubt that most of this
business could be transferred to Britain with very little
dislocation of trade.
The same Melbourne newspaper, reviewing the
export season for apples and pears (both bounty-fed),
dismally records that, “despite improvement in pack-
ing and quality, apples and pears sent overseas from
Victoria” —610,495 cases of apples and 410,143 cases
of pears —“met disappointing markets and most un-
satisfactory prices.” Apples, it seems, averaged about
7s. a case, which was “unpayable,” and “exporters
who bought from growers and producers who shipped
on consignment have suffered heavy losses.” Much
the same may have to be written of wool, wheat and
flour exports if Canberra policy results in making
Britain almost the only overseas buyer.
The Bulletin holds with the leaders of the wool-
growers’ organisations that the situation should be
referred to Parliament without delay. Preferential
trade is the policy of all the Australian parties and
of most of those in other parts of the Empire, but
never before in any part of the Empire has preferen-
tialism been made virtually prohibitive. Parliament
is entitled to be consulted on this radical departure,
and the people have a right to expect that Parlia-
ment shall take its proper share of responsibility,
since there are involved the welfare of their greatest
industry and of other important industries, their capa-
city to pay their overseas interest bills and their poli-
tical relations with a great military Power which
transport improvements are bringing closer to them
every year.
Witness the arrival at Brisbane of a new Japanese
freighter, the Canberra Maru, 10 days out from Yoko-
hama. Schedule time for Australian freighters voyag-
ing from Fremantle to Sydney (with stops, of course)
is twelve days.
Parliament may conceivably decide that it is
bad business to alienate, perhaps permanently, a
country which is a great buyer of Australian goods
for which other overseas markets have been limited
or lost; and bad politics, even from the British point
of view, to put the Japanese in the position of asking
despairingly or desperately “Have we no friends any-
where and none but enemies everywhere?” In that
case Parliament must take the necessary steps to get
another Government, which only Parliament can do.
“NO ENTANGLING ALLIANCES.”
France has now a Jewish Prime Minister. He seems
very like Litvinoff but nothing like Disraeli. The
advent of his Government was preceded and accom-
panied by tremendous strikes, during which the
employees took possession of factories, workshops,
mines and stores after the fashion of the Italian Com-
munists in 1921, though on a much larger scale.
The new Administration hastily brought in
measures conceding collective bargaining, the 40-hour
week, 15 days’ holidays per annum and increased
wages. Other wage-increases having been “negotiated"
—the total has been reckoned by the president of
the Trade-union Council at £165,000,000 p.a.—the dis-
putes were declared to have been settled. But 14
days after the “settlement” there were still 193,000
workmen out, and “the Red Flag” was “flying on 68
ships” in “the paralysed port of Marseilles,” while
strikers were in possession of two new cruisers and
the Schneider-Creusot armament works at Chalons.
The Blum programme has been described by
friendly observers as a French New Deal and by
others, equally friendly, as “Blum’s revolution.”
To the extent that it will remove legitimate grievances
and establish improved conditions which can be paid
for out of production, it is to be welcomed by all
well-wishers of France. But it is disconcerting to
read newspaper accounts of “a Paris victory festival
organised by the Communist party”:
Two hundred thousand people were present. Every-
one wore red emblems. A huge picture of Barbusse
adorned the speakers’ platform, and squads of vic-
torious strikers bearing banners displaying the hammer
and sickle paraded. From four flagpoles flew “the flag
of Soviet France”: a red field quartered with the tri-
color and the hammer and sickle.
The Reds of Paris are now almost as strong in the
Chamber as they were in the Legislative Assembly in
1792. And they know all about the part played in the
rising of the Tenth of August and the massacre of
the Swiss Guard and the overthrow of Louis and
Antoinette by a Red band from Marseilles.
For 17 years Bolshevism made no headway in
Europe outside Red Russia. Parts of the old Russian
empire which have had the closest acquaintance_ with
it have been its steadiest opponents. The highly-
intelligent and democratic little Scandinavian nations,
also near-neighbors and racially akin to the best
elements among the very mixed Russian population,
have never had the slightest use for it. Hungary
rejected it violently ; so did Italy and then Germany.
But in the last twelvemonth it has made alarming
progress in Spain and France.
Not only Communists helped to re-establish the
alliance with Russia, which, together with the results
of the French elections and the Red industrial vic-
tories, has given Hitler some ground for claiming
that rearming and reoccupation of the Rhineland
demilitarised zone were necessary defensive measures ;
but the Communist propagandists are making the
most of it. They extol the butchers of the Com-
mune, who fired part of their capital and slaughtered
their fellow-countrymen in cold blood, with the con-
quering Prussians looking on. The very names of
these ruffians have been willingly forgotten by the
non-Marxian world, but they have always been heroes
to the Bolshies.
Perhaps this generation will witness another Red
fool-fury by the Seine. If it happens it should find
the British Empire as aloof as it was in 1870, and as
the U.S.A. is determined to be when Europe or any
part of it goes crazy again: it is the one thing on
which the Democrats and the Republicans agree. In
any case, it would be madness for John Bull to enter
into an entangling alliance with a Red France or a
Red Russia.
“COME CLEAN!”
The remarks of Victoria’s Chief Justice Mann on the
use of third-degree methods to obtain confessions or
statements from suspected persons reopen a question
that has been raised from time to time in most Aus-
tralian States.
It is fairly common for a signed confession
produced in court by the police to be repudiated by
a defendant on the grounds that it “was dragged
out of him” by violence and signed in order to escape
further rough handling. Very often there is nothing
in his story. But there have been cases in which the
evidence showed that the confession, genuine or not,
had been obtained only after long questioning, and
cases in which independent testimony has, to some
extent, supported the allegation of actual force.
Although Chief Justice Mann was careful to state
that his remarks had a general application, he was
obviously impressed by the evidence in the case before
him —that of an old man charged with rape. The
police admitted having examined the accused at the
police station for hours.
For two hours and a half he maintained that he
was innocent. Between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. he made a
full confession.
Accused asserted that one of the constables had
threatened him with a stick and punched him on the
face. After that he had agreed to “say anything the
police wanted him to say.” Medical evidence stated
that next morning the man’s forehead was bruised
and swollen.
The Chief Justice said:
There is no doubt that the examination by the
police of persons in custody may be, and even is,
carried to most undesirable excesses... .Public policy
requires that, if we are to maintain the invaluable
characteristics of unquestionable fairness in the admini-
stration of the criminal law, some limitation must be
put on this growing evil.
The verdict —arrived at within ten minutes —was
“not guilty.”
In another Melbourne court the same day a
similar accusation of intimidating methods was made.
In this instance the defendant claimed that, following
a threat, “If you don’t tell the truth I’ll spread you
round the floor,” and a demand expressed in the
words “Come clean!” a constable had seized him by
the hair and shaken him, punched him on the jaw
and over the heart. After that he “confessed” ; the
charge was “stealing as a servant.” A medical witness
again testified that the man’s appearance was con-
sistent with his story.
Said Book, J., to the jury:
If you accept the evidence of accused that the
constable assaulted him, and that he was thereby
induced to make the statement, it is unlikely that you
would be satisfied of his guilt.
Again there was an acquittal, the jury retiring
for eight minutes.
Ordinarily a confession is such a convincing piece
of evidence that it is understandable that officers
should use every legitimate endeavor to get one. But
if the feeling grows that policemen regard the securing
of a confession as the sole aim of justice and the
genuineness or otherwise of such confession as a matter
of secondary importance, all that will be necessary
for an accused person to regain his liberty will be
to retract the confession. The jury will be prepared
to believe whatever he tells them.
Filmgoers and novel-readers are familiar with
American methods of making suspects “come clean.’
The reputation of American justice is not so enviable
as to warrant emulation of its worst aspects in
Australia.
It is a canon of British law that where any reason-
able doubt exists the accused shall be given the benefit
of it. The basic assumption that a man is innocent
until proved guilty goes down the wind when police-
men are permitted to prejudge a man to the extent
of forcing a “confession” out of him.
The trouble is that in the examination of suspects
too much is left to the discretion of the police. Chief
Justice Mann suggests that these discretionary powers
should be curtailed. It is a suggestion that no State
can afford to ignore.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Come Down to Earth!
Australian members of the League of Nations Union
are still crying for a moon rpade of green cheese —
in other words, more “sanctions.” Some even demand
a referendum.
The esteemed Canon Garnsey hopefully informs
the now-unsympathetic “S. M. Herald” that “a large
part—possibly three-fifths—of Abyssinia remains
unsubdued,” and that “certain warlike tribes are deter-
mined to continue fighting.” Alas, Mr. Anthony Eden
sadly admits that the “certain warlike tribes” are
“determined to continue fighting” Haile Silassie if
they can get at him. Mrs. Jessie M. Street suggests
that “it is our duty to undermine and weaken the
power that binds the unhappy Italian people,” who,
unless “sanctions” are continued, will be “condemned
to impotence against the iron hand that rules them.”
Kipling, who was against “sanctions,” wrote some
pithy lines after Britain had muddled through another
mess.
Let us consider it fairly as a business people should:
We have had no end of a lesson; it should do us
no end of good.
Those of the King s subjects who were against
sanctions” had no illusions about the Italian Fascists.
It has become necessary for the “sanctionists” to shed
their illusions about “sanctions.” It was Britons’
imperialist past that spurred the ambition of the
Italians, and their pacifist present failed to bridle it.
Muddlers and Trouble-makers.
Negotiations with Japan for a trade treaty began
long before Mr. Gullett left for England as part of
the Great Pilgrimage known as the Lyons Jubilee
Delegation. Mr. Gullett was absent for nearly ten
months, during which time the negotiations with Japan
were suspended. For six months after his return a
heavy silence hung cloudlike over all trade-treaty
negotiations. Then came, not a treaty with Japan, but
prohibitive duties on goods which Japan exports
largely to Australia.
On June 22 Australians were told that their
Government had offered Japan a quota of 50,000,000
yards of cotton piece goods and 30,000,000 yards of
rayon, and that Japan had rejected the offer. Next
day it came out that the offer had been made before
the new duties were imposed, which was on May 22.
Then the still more remarkable admission was
made that the Government was prepared to reduce
the new duties “to a purely revenue basis,” provided
Japan accepted the quota. Up to this point the
daily newspapers, apparently inspired, had stated that
the new duties would on no account be altered. In
the light of the June 23 disclosure, this bold declara-
tion now appeared to have been a mere quibble: the
new duties are not sacrosanct. But why did an element
of such importance remain undisclosed until it was
known that Japan was retaliating, especially when
Japan knew the truth all the time?
The Government has been wanting in candor to
the Australian people and to the woolgrowers, whose
interests are vitally affected, and it has muddled the
whole business.
Two Other Customers.
While falling out with the Japanese, the Common-
wealth Government is engaged in trade negotiations
with Belgium, and is racking its brains to find a way
of inducing Canada to show more of the trade-treaty
spirit. The trade treaty with Canada is a one-way
document, Canada reaps all the benefit and leaves
Australia with the bag. On the other hand, our
trade relations with Belgium have been overwhelm-
ingly in our favor:
Imports from Australia.
By Belgium. By Canada.
1930- 1 .. .. £4,195,186 £958,000
1931- .. .. 3,579,000 1,033,000
1932- .. .. 4,061,000 1,209,000
1933- .. .. 7,470,000 1.336,000
1934- .. .. 6,080,000 1,444,063
Exports to Australia.
From Belgium. From Canada.
930-31 .. .. £312,000 £1,377,000
19j 1-32 .. .. 282,000 1,392,000
'932-33 .. .. 391,000 2315 000
1933- .. .. 368,000 2,918,000
1934- .. 477,000 4,091,000
The arrangement with Canada was prompted by
Canberra’s easy expectation that Canada would buy
from Australia the bulk of the dried fruits, canned
fruits and wine it consumes, and a lot of the sugar. Its
actual purchases in 1934-35 (dried fruits £482,000,
canned fruits £340,000, sugar £341,000, wines £34,000)
make it obvious that the Canadians (there are about
10,500,000 of them) are getting most of these com-
modities elsewhere. The position is extremely unsatis-
factory to Australia.
Belgium is a heavy buyer of Australian wool
(£4,684,000 worth of “greasy” in 1934-35 against
Canada’s £300,000); of barley (£203,000, chiefly South
Australian); of silver-lead ore (£129,000), and, in
some years, of frozen beef, largely Westralian, which
has no other export market. The only thing we buy
in any quantity from Belgium is glassware, worth
just on £lOO,OOO in 1934-35. Under a temporary treaty
Belgium is forbidden to send to Australia more than
2,152.000 square feet of sheet-glass unless Australian
consumption exceeds 7,500,000 in a year. This con-
cession is worth £lO,OOO a year (gold). No wonder
the Belgian negotiations are described as “difficult.”
The Man with the Donkey.
In Melbourne the other day they unveiled a memorial
to the Man with the Donkey. He was not a Vic-
torian ; he was not even Australian by birth ; he was
a ship’s fireman from Tyneside. Nor did he enlist
in the A.I.F under his right name. But, as Charles
Bean has written, the name under which he did enlist.
John Simpson, “has become a tradition in Australia.”
Let the historian of the A.I.F. relate the beautiful
story again:
A number of donkeys with Greek drivers had been
landed on April 25 for water-carrying. The Greeks
were soon deported, and after the first days the donkeys
led idly in the gullies till they gradually disappeared.
Private Simpson, of the 3rd Australian Field Ambu-
lance, was seized with the idea that one of these might
be useful for moving men wounded in the leg.
On the night of April 25 he annexed a donkey,
and each day and half of every night he worked con-
tinuously between the head of Monash Valley and the
Beach, his donkey carrying a brassard round its fore-
head and a wounded man on its back.
Simpson escaped death so many times that he was
completely fatalistic. The deadly sniping down the valley
and the most furious shrapnel-fire never stopped him.
The colonel of the ambulance, recognising the value
of his work, allowed him to carry on as a separate unit.
He camped with his donkey at the Indian mule-camp,
and had only to report once a day at the field ambu-
lance.
Presently he annexed a second donkey. On May 19
he went up the valley past the water-guard, where he
generally had his breakfast; but it was not ready.
“Never mind,” he called; “get me a good dinner when
I come back.”
He never came back. With two patients he was coming
down the creek-bed when he was hit through the heart",
both the wounded men being wounded again. He had
carried many scores of men down the valley, and saved
many lives at the cost of his own.
But no letters can be added to the name inscribed
on the statue. There were occasions during the war
when decorations were distributed lavishly for other
than military reasons; Private John Simpson,
who was John Simpson Kirkpatrick, was forgotten..
Long after the war was over a Sydney newspaper
collected some money for his Durham mother (now
also dead), but no person in authority thought to
bespeak even a posthumous 0.8. E. for her son.
Persons in authority are more alert nowadays.
A day or two after the bronze statue of the Man
and his donkey, bearing a wounded Digger, was unveiled
in Melbourne, the public was thrilled by the intelli-
gence that the services of Mr. Lyons and two of his
associates had been remembered by the new King
on his birthday. A C.H. for the Prime Minister,
giving him the right to sport “a gold medallion”
adorned with “a representation of a knight in armor
and an oak-tree” and the inscription “In action faith-
ful and in honor clean.” A K.C.M.G. for Mr. Robert
Archdale Parkhill. A K.B.E. for Mr. Sydney Snow.
All U.A.P. worthies and men of peace. We have
the poet’s word for it that “Peace hath her victories
no less renowned than war,” and in these cases such
“victories” are infinitely better rewarded.
Experience SHOULD Teach.
Now that a Federal Minister has undergone the
perilous experience of being lost in a fog in an aero-
plane, and having to share in a forced blind landing,
it is to be hoped that Canberra will hurry up with
the job of installing modern safeguards for air-travel
in Australia. Had a radio-beacon system and proper
means of ground communication been available, the
incident —so nearly another appalling air accident—
would never have occurred. Jt is the direct fault of
the Commonwealth Government that these elementary
essentials were lacking. It is no excuse to say that
they are about to be installed. They should have
been provided long ago.
Nor is it air travellers only who are menaced
by Commonwealth dilatoriness and neglect. Every
n.-w. season vessels making Torres Strait from the
westward, carrying perhaps hundreds of souls, are
subjected to risks almost as great as that which the
Captain Cook and Mr. Hughes so narrowly survived.
Until a radio beacon is installed at Booby Island
(T.S.) those risks will continue. Another is required,
equally urgently, at Sandy Cape (C.Q.).
Odious Comparisons.
New Guinea aircraft, serving a white population of
a couple of thousand, and operating over a few miles,
flew 15,419 hours, principally on commercial flights, in
1935. Including private flying, operations of flying
doctors, training, joy-riding and taxi flights. Aus-
tralian civil ’planes flew only 49,732 hours. Yet
there were 6,700,000 people to be served and a link
with London to be maintained.
To get the thing in right perspective, it should
be remembered that N.G. had 30 aircraft and five
public aerodromes against Australia’s 227 aircraft and
150 public aerodromes.
The N.G. ’planes carried 15,866 passengers and
8323 tons of freight; the Australian ’planes 47,044
passengers and 139.6 tons. Also, N.G. Airways carried
108,6541 b. of mail against 42,4731 b. carried in
Australia.
But perhaps Australians won’t be mortified by
such comparisons much longer, for the Common-
wealth Government is bringing N.G. aviation under
the sort of control that exists in Australia. As a first
step it is forcing the amalgamation of N.G. companies.
—• — <
“Relief.”
The Toowoomba (Q.) City Council has passed a
unanimous resolution calling upon the State Govern-
ment to give serious attention to the matter of abolish-
ing the Unemployment Relief Act.
Passed in 1930 as a “purely emergency measure,”
the Act served a useful part in relieving depression
distress. The Forgan Smiths claim that the depres-
sion is now a thing of the past, and that employment
conditions are as good as in pre-depression days;
yet in the last financial year to June, 1935, they
squeezed £1,050,128 from production and business
activities, and another £1,364,029 from wages and
salaries. This year’s mulctings have been greater still.
Less than a quarter of this great sum would be
amply sufficient to relieve, in the most generous
lashion, every real case of hardship or distress among
the remaining fraction of the genuinely unemployed.
Every shilling taken in excess of this requirement is
a shillingsworth of wrongful reduction of progress
and enterprise.
Worse than this, the “relief” system is killing
self-reliance and the work habit. It has come to be
looked upon as regular Government employment.
People marry for the deliberate purpose of receiving
the increased rates paid to the “unemployed” married.
Numbers of relief-workers refuse to accept rural
employment even on full wages, preferring to remain
in the cities at the relief rate of pay. The standard
of “work” given by them in return for heavy public
mulctings is a joke even among themselves.
Canberra Calling!
Ihe suggestion that an A-class station should be
established at Canberra and used for broadcasting
debates and Ministerial announcements has been
rejected by Mr. Lyons on flimsy grounds. A.B.C. has
plenty of money, and surely it is the natural right of
every citizen to listen to the deliberations of his repre-
sentatives if he so desires.
Few citizens may want to listen, but that is no
more reason for keeping the debates off the air than
it is for locking the doors of the public gallery at
Parliament House merely because there isn’t a crowd
outside demanding admission.
Maoriland has been trying the broadcasting plan.
Already complaints have been pouring in, directed
mainly against the poor quality of much of the Parlia-
mentary speaking. It would be unreasonable to insist
on academic language, Latin tags and an easy flow
of perfect oratory. But in these days of free
and compulsory education it is surely not asking
too much to require that every man seeking public
office should be able to handle the King’s English
without breaking too many rules of grammar and
without offending sensitive ears with too many mis-
pronunciations.
Slovenliness in speech is a bad habit which can
be cured if the patient is willing to try ; and the man
who intends to take on a public career should be
prepared to try. The chief objection to the fault in
a Parliamentary representative is made on stronger
than mere aesthetic grounds. Untidy speech is a sign
of an untidy mind, and an untidy mind is not capable
of ordered consideration of the country’s problems.
Careless speech is bad enough, but ill-bred inter-
jections and insulting recriminations which lead to
Parliament being likened to a bear garden or worse
are even less excusable. Samples of Parliamentary
“wit” and “repartee” sometimes find their way into
the papers, but they are of such common occurrence
that they have ceased to have news value.
They might cease to .be uttered if proceedings
were broadcast. Broadcasting would force members
to observe higher standards of debate and, in the
case of incorrigibles, force constituencies to realise
that they need better members.
Reverence or Gloom?
“8.8. J." wants a change:-
For 10 years Victoria has been observing Anzac Day as
a “close"’ holiday. Hotels, shops and places of amusement
are forbidden to open; it is impossible to buy petrol or
cigarettes; football and other sports are suspended. Com-
memoration services are held and A.I.F. veterans march
through Melbourne to the Shrine of Remembrance. In
country centres there are similar ceremonies.
There has been a feeling for some time that this style
of observance does not accurately express all that Anzac Day
should mean. The sacredness of the occasion is admitted,
but solemnity long-drawn-out becomes gloom—a fact which
all who have memories of those days," not so far distant,
when it was considered a cardinal sin to smile or to talk
above a whisper on Sunday will admit.
A section of members within the Returned Soldiers'
League is attempting to bring about an alteration. These
members suggest that the “close” holiday should end at
1 p.m., and that the afternoon should be in the same category
as holidays such as the King’s Birthday.
This is more or less the system followed in most of the
other States, and it would surely not be argued that citizens
and returned men in the rest of Australia are less aware or
less appreciative of the sacrifices of the Anzacs than are the
Victorians.
The men who fell on Gallipoli were not solemn-faced
ascetics. They were not saints, and they never expected to
be treated as such. They were human beings, eager, loyal,
adventurous, fun-loving men and boys very like the tens of
thousands of their more fortunate comrades who came through
the war and who march on Anzac morning as a tribute to
their memory, and who, in all but Victorian towns, adjourn
in the afternoon to clubs and hotels to renew’ old acquaint-
ances, revive old memories and relive the past.
The Victorian branch of the R.S.L. claims that as the
league was responsible for having the holiday gazetted it
should be entitled to decide the manner of its observance.
In this the branch is actuated by a very worthy motive —
a desire to see that those who fell should be fittingly honored
and the debt owed to them realised. But it would be wise for
members to consider whether the policy is having the desired
effect, or whether it is not, in a measure, defeating its own
purpose.
It should be remembered that the war generation is not
getting any younger, and that every year there are young
men and women growing up who were not even born at the
time of the first Anzac Day. It is to these that the Day
must make its appeal if it is to remain an institution after
the last Digger has joined his comrades.
Compulsion is always unpleasant, and to a generation
used to freedom in its amusements there is something very
ii ksome .in the sombie atmosphere of a "close” holiday In
consequence, these, young people, not having the same
personal feeling towards the Anzacs as those of the war
generation who knew them and saw them march away or
fought beside them on the Peninsula or in France will
instead of reverencing their memory, rather resent what seems
to be an interference with their own liberty.
If the practice is changed as suggested, services and the
pilgrimage to the Shrine will still be held, and will lose
nothing in significance or solemnity. Indeed, it would not
be surprising if numerically there were a gain, if Sydney’s
experience can be taken as an example.
A continuation of the present plan will mean that less
and less significance will be attached to the sacredness of the
occasion by the general public, and that there will be ever--
increasing resentment against curtailment of the libertv of the
subject. J


Society
"AMD IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Dungeness”: A proud father up our
way who considered that his six-year-
old daughter was far beyond Shirley
Temple as a child actress has undergone
a sudden and painful conversion. Pro-
duced for the edification of numerous
friends at a musical afternoon, she gave
clever imitations of the old Scotch gar-
dener, the colored washlady and Shirley
herself. “Now show us how the new
housemaid behaves,” encouraged her ad-
miring parent, putting an arm round her
shoulders. Wresting herself free, and
pushing him away, she said in an agi-
tated, high-pitched voice: “No —no, sir
—let me go at once or I’ll call out —
no, I will not —whatever would your wife
say?” Everyone, after a period of
silence, congratulated the parents upon
the child’s remarkable ability and de-
parted as soon as might be. So did the
husband. So did the housemaid, with
a cheque in lieu of notice.
“G.S.L.”: Queer vehicle thefts? A
friendly stranger invited the proprietor
of an Adelaide piecart to sink a pint in
a near-by pub. The pieman accepted
with alacrity, but after sinking several
came out to find his portable cafe was
missing. He started to search the streets
for it, questioning every policeman he
met, and finally found one who did know.
“Your piecart?” said the constable. “It’s
on the driveway right in front of the main
door of Government House, and if you
don’t shift in within five minutes there’il
be trouble.” The joker was brother to
a highly-placed civil servant, and there
was no prosecution.
* *
“Eureka”: I listened-in to the official
opening of the Sydney Sheep Show by
the head of the Government whose policy
has demoralised the wool trade. Sheep-
men listened with cold politeness, but the
speech was rudely punctuated by “Baas”
from sheep that must have been close to
the microphone. Even at the conclusion
of his address, when Mr. Lyons said “I
wish you all the success in the world,” a
rude merino interjected “Baa!”
“Kwakprak”: The Cessnock (N.S.W.)
man whose life was saved in a shooting
accident because his heart inclined to
the right' instead of the left side is an
anatomical commonplace compare ! with
a Casino girl. Three years ago she was
operated on for appendicitis. The
puzzled surgeon could find no appendix
in the usual area of the right lower
abdomen, but finally located it on the
left. Under X-rays she was found to
*have a transposition of all organs which
ordinarily are located to one or other
side of the midline. Her heart was on
the right. The information came in use-
fully when, not long after, she under-
went an operation for gall-bladder
trouble. Ordinarily it is sought to the
right, just below the rib line, but the
surgeon sunk a trial shaft in the corre-
sponding site on the left, and found the
offending organ at once.
* * * *
“Hegar”: The two most consistent
male patrons my barber-friend has are a
pugilist and a policeman. Each of them
comes for a permanent wave.
* * *
“Shep”: They built the Mills bomb
to weather anything. In the spring of
1917 we spelled at Pozier.es, waiting to
be rushed into Bullecourt, and roamed
the battleground of nine months before;
shattered rifles and rusted ammunition
were strung along the crumbling trenches,
filled with stagnant water and overrun
with elephantine rats. In an old Fritz
machine-gun post Steve unearthed a
Mills bomb out of slimy mud, and offered
to gamble that- he could still slaughter
rats with it. “Crouch up against the
concrete bank,” he yelled, “while I sling
’er over the top,” and we promptly
“Oh, George, get up and help me down!”
“You get down and help me up!”
crouched. Steve tugged at the pin, but
instead of coming away it broke off,
practically rusted through. Up went
the lever, and Steve’s finger was caught
in the rusted ring. The seconds that he
took in flicking the bomb off his fingers
and his last moment when he scooped
the missile over the top of our heads
started the grey hairs in my thatch. The
bomb was only about four yards away
when time was up. Yes, it was still as
deadly as ever.
: i : s i :
“Sach”: The A.U.S.N. freighter Mun-
gana, which was towed off a reef near
Cape Jaffa (S.A.), has been an unlucky
ship. Launched at Newcastle 16 years
ago, she was christened the Eurelia. Her
first run was from Sydney to Fremantle
and Singapore, where it was hoped to
capture the fruit trade. The hope was
not realised. When the shipping slump
arrived she changed hands at a very low
figure. As the Mungana she struck
trouble in the Yellow Sea—a collision,
followed by a writ being nailed to her
mast. Since then she has been on runs
around the Australian coast. Inciden-
tally, on the waterfront they call her the
“Ted Theodore.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The last will and testament
of Wong Wah Gee, of Cobar, who left
an estate valued at £36,000, contained a
provision for £lOOO to go to a school in
his ancestral village of Pak Strek and
another £lOOO to be divided among the
descendants of Nem Bat Tsu, who died
many centuries ago. The latter bequest
has caused the affairs of Wong Wah Gee
to drift in and out of N.S.W. courts for
three years. The end of it is that the
Chinese Chamber of Commerce has been
named as the body indicated in the will
as the intended trustees for the gift;
and seven nobles among the computed
3000 descendants of the far-distant Nem
Bat Tsu are to supervise the distribution
of the money to those of the clan who
are indigent. Curiously, although there
are Chinese lawyers and barristers in
Sydney, the benefits in fees and costs
from the litigation have gone entirely to
Caucasians.
£ £ *
“P.0.M.C.”: It might interest “Troy' 5
(B. 17/6/’36) to know that a purple neon
sign representing a series of torches deco-
rates a funeral parlor in City-road, Syd-
ney. Strangely enough, the hue of this
particular sign seems to vary according
to the density of the night, so if “Troy”
should ever be in the neighborhood his
yearning for mauve and/or violet may
be satisfied.
* * £ £
“Katie Keyboard”: I saw a bit in the
paper how the star ladies at Hollywood
have to spend £5O every week to keep
themselves beautiful, and before they can
be kept beautiful they have to have three
facials a week and composition finger-
nails and false eyelashes and eyebrow
arching, and some even have to have
false eyelids. Of course, a girl’s got to
keep her perm, going and use a bit of
lipstick and skinfood, though my boy
friend says I don’t need anything at all;
but when a girl has to spend all that
and have so many false things on her
I wonder what the girl would look like
if she was to play a surfing part and get
into the water by accident. And my boy
friend thinks one of the girls in our office
ought to be sent to Hollywood and have
it all done to her to keep him from feel-
ing ill whenever he looks at her; but I
don’t think they’d spend all that money
on a girl like what she is.
“F.X.”: I know of one library that
doesn’t unload demoralising books on
lighthouse-keepers (B. 27/5/’36). It is
run by a Government department in Wel-
lington (M.L.) for the benefit of the em-
ployees, and the books are classified by
means of purple bands around their
covers. One band indicates the “whole-
some” variety of novel: Anthony
Adverse and The Stars Look Down are
in this section. Fairly fruity stories sport
two purple indicators, and very occa-
sionally three embrace a cover. These
novels are easily the most dog-eared
and thumb-marked.
“Hobo”: What powers have the police
in the taking of fingerprints? I was
among a bunch of nomads arrested re-
cently at a North Coast (N.S.W.) town
for jumping a train. We were charged
with “trespassing on railway premises” and
got five days. Before we were released
our fingerprints were taken. Now, rattler-
jumping is not catalogued as a crime. It
is a breach of a local by-law and is not
recorded against the offender as a con-
viction. I questioned the authority of
the police to compel me to give my
brands on such a petty charge, but
the sergeant insisted that the mere fact
of my having fallen into their hands was
sufficient, regardless of the charge. A
man, he said, could be fingerprinted it
he had been arrested for nothing more
than drunkenness. If this is so, it would
seem that a Minister of the Crown might
be roped in and “printed” for parking
his car in the wrong place, or a bishop
for jay-walking.
* * * *
“S.G.”: When the magistrate’s order
permitting me to live rent-free has ex-
pired, I am going to move to Bankstown,
Sydney. There is generally “something
doing” in Bankstown. When the New
Guard shot up, the tale went round one
night that a motor-car division was
descending on the suburb to capture its
member, The McGirr, and all Banks-
town turned out to give battle. Nothing
exciting happened, and Bankstown hac
to solace itself by looking on at the usual
fortnightly rumpus at the Council Cham-
bers ; and there wasn’t much on that
night. Which was unusual. “At about
12.40 a.m. on June 3”—but let Alderman
Coleman tell the story:
Alderman Amour endeavored to discuss
a matter, but the Mayor ruled him out of
order. Alderman Amour continued to
speak. The Mayor closed the meeting.
Alderman Amour made some remark to
Alderman Welch, which he resented. Aider-
man Welch asked the Mayor to make
Alderman Amour apologise, but the
Mayor said the meeting was closed.
Alderman Welch said, “Well, I’ll
get the apology myself,” and made
a rush at Alderman Amour. I put
my arm round Alderman Welch and, try-
ing to pacify him, I received a terrific
hit from behind. The blow dazed me, and
1 reeled round the room. I turned and
saw the Mayor coming at me. I said to
the Mayor, “You skunk! You hit
me a cowardly blow. I’ve never shirked
an issue yet.” 1 put my hands up, but
didn’t strike the Mayor. The Mayor hit
me on the nose and the mouth, and I went
down.
The Mayor’s version? Certainly:
1 heard a noise, looked round and saw
Aldermen Welch and Amour engaged in
a scuffle. I walked across the room with
the idea of pacifying them, and saw Alder-
man Coleman put his hands on Alderman
Welch’s back. I placed one hand on Aider-
man Coleman’s shoulder and one on the
side of his face and pushed him back.
Alderman Coleman followed me across the
Council Chamber: “I’ll have you on, big
as you are,” he said. Alderman Coleman
aimed a blow at me and 1 side-stepped it,
and my shoulder broke a picture. I came
back with a straight left and a right cross, ,
and that settled him.
There were court proceedings, but a
settlement was arrived at and everyone
is now promising to behave. But Banks-
town only grins.
WHEN THE WORLD WAS YOUNG.
“The discovery is announced of a new fossil bed
near Ipswich (Queensland), where there are numer-
ous remains of an extinct cockroach, evidently
abundant in the Triassic age, dragonflies, beetles and
other insects. Dr. Tillyard sets the age of the
bed at 155,000,000 years.’’
There were never creatures faintly human,
So far, far back, in their brains and shapes;
Long aeons passed before man and woman
Slowly evolved from the greater apes.
Withal, there were plenty of breeds reptilian
And quite a number of bugs, you know,
Over a hundred and fifty million
Years ago.
The climate, scientists say, was torrid;
The scanty herbage showed little green;
The Dinosauria, huge and horrid,
Had yet to arrive upon the scene.
But dragonflies danced their gay cotillon,
Flitting in myriads to and fro,
More than a hundred and fifty million
Years ago.
They might have served to appease the hunger
Of the pterodactyl, you well may bet,
But this world of ours was so much younger
That the foul fowl hadn’t been featured yet.
And the crickets sounded their shrill carillon,
And the burnished beetles feared no foe,
Over a hundred and fifty million
Years ago.
There were ’roaches, too, in those dim, dark
ages, , , . ,
Ere the lumbering mammals’ reign began,
Not such as waken our housewife’s rages
Or the crackling oaths of our sailor man.
But their lost kin crawled by the countless
billion
Where now the pines and bananas grow
Only a hundred and fifty million
Years ago.
How few the years that sever and sunder
Our time from the date when it’s supposed
That Father Adam and Eve went under
And the gates of Eden abruptly closed.
We are heirs to all that’s in Earth’s pavilion,
But the fact remains it had little to show,
Save bugs, a hundred and fifty million
Years ago.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Fi. Fa.”: Possibly for the first time
in history—certainly in Australian history
—a royal commission is yielding a profit
to the Government which constituted it.
That which investigated police affairs in
Melbourne —a Judge sitting alone—was
allotted £175 for all expenses. Such a
demand arose for copies of the evidence,
at 6d. per folio, that the returns are ex-
pected not only to cover counsel’s fees,
witnesses’ expenses and all other costs,
but to leave a surplus of at least £lO.
It would be a graceful act on the part of
the Government to expend it on a new
model pistol, guaranteed not to jamb, for
Superintendent Brophy.
“Kwakprak”: “Dominic” (B. 17/6/’36)
errs in ascribing lung-damaging effects
to coal dust. It blackens the tissues, so
that a coalminer’s lung is always recog-
nisable post mortem, but it appears, actu-
ally, to protect against phthisis. Coal
workers have a remarkably low consump-
tion death-rate. Hairdressers show no
“Seen everything? Why, you haven't shown us the propellers yet!”
special mortality from consumption ;
suicide is the most striking feature associ-
ated with their occupational mortality,
In my particular tonsorial temple, fre-
quented for more than 25 years, three
out of the six operators have been there
all the time, and two are grey; the third
is bald. The healthiest of all occupations
is glue- and manure-manufacturing;
which refutes the popular notion that bad
smells cause disease. Sewer-workers (not
construction, but inspecting and main-
taining sewers in use) come next. The
most dangerous of all occupations is that
of a barman.
* * * *
“G.M.R.”: In an article on airman
Melrose (B. 13/5/’36) it is suggested that
he is in all probability the world’s best
flier of light aeroplanes. But what of
Broad bent? In the flight around Aus-
tralia the latter completed the course in
the same machine in two days and some
hours less than Melrose did. Again,
these two fliers left England at the same
lime to fly to Australia, and when Mel-
rose turned back to look for Kingsford
Smith Broadbent was many hours ahead
of him. Both are skilled airmen of
whom Australia may well be proud ; and
1 am not depreciating Melrose’s achieve-
ments when I rank Broadbent as the
finest young flier Australia has produced,
and probably the best racing pilot living.
Compare his records at 21 with those
of Melrose at that age ; then compare
the machines they flew.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A bale of wool exhibited in
Adelaide for its weight to be guessed
scaled 1581 b. exactly. The prize was
a motor-car, and the 23 who tied for
exact weight (including a lady from
Barellan, N.S.W.) will have to compete
for a “final.” Many more were within
an ounce either way. On the other hand,
of about 30;000 entries, only 11,000 were
between 1501 b. and 1601 b.
* =!= * $
“Brix”: My friend Binks obtained a
recipe for beer to be made from powder,
and there was genuine interest in the
neighborhood when he announced that
the article would soon be forthcoming, the
ingredients having been mixed by our
local chemist. The liquid, it seemed, had
to stand for five days in a wooden tub
or , cask before becoming properly
matured, and it was on the fifth day that
a crowd of guests gathered in Binks’s
backyard. The beer was handed out
generously, and it seemed to have no
harmful effect on anyone—at least not
immediately. It was while one enthusi-
astic imbiber was toasting the host that
somebody noticed Binks was asleep. A
few moments later the speaker himself fell
into slumber and the lettuce-bed. These
examples proved so contagious that very
soon a dead silence fell over the garden
scene, Mrs. Binks being out for the after-
noon. It remained unbroken until the
afternoon milkman arrived and, after one
startled glance at the collection of som-
nolent citizens, glasses, stray dogs and
battered vegetation, ran for assistance.
In fifteen minutes as many distracted
wives were sorting out their husbands
and abusing the unhappy Binks. It took
over an hour to get them dragged home.
The only part Mrs. Binks took in the
affair was to secure and tear up the
recipe.
“Rustchuck”: Daily newspapers fre-
quently differ violently in this country as
in others, but their fighting is seldom
done with anything more lethal than ink,
nor are sub-editors and reporters and
“ I've forgotten my bath towel. Any of you
gentlemen lend me yours?”
compositors expected
to risk their lives and
limbs by identifying
themselves with the
views advanced in lead-
ing columns. Partisan
feeling, it would seem,
runs higher and loyalty
is far more compelling
in Rumania that
“Latin island in a Slav
sea”—where “the staffs
of rival Bucharest news-
papers which had quar-
relled on political issues
fought with sticks,
knives and revolvers
until four men had
been killed and 26
wounded.” It is not
mentioned whether, de-
spite the casualties,
both papers went to press at the usual
time next day, but 1 suppose they did.
They must have had brisk sales.
* * * *
“Corporal Wanst”: I doubt if the de-
cision to put the rank and file of the
Australian air force into slacks and open-
necked tunics instead of breeches and
button-up jackets will be welcomed by
the wearers. The British infantry have
received the open-neck tunic with a
marked lack of enthusiasm. The thing
means extra time in dressing, with a
shirt to don and a tie to fix and several
extra garments to be replaced at wearer’s
expense when they go missing, as they
often do in barracks. Also the shirt and
tie must be clean as well as the tunic,
whereas in the old days the latter covered
a multitude of sins of omission. In hot
weather the button-up tunic could be
worn without shirt or even singlet, and
in cold a soldier could wear a dozen
garments under it, a dodge that would
be spotted in an instant with the open
neck. Slacks will not be welcomed
either. I never knew a sojer-man yet
who didn’t fancy himself better in
breeches and gaiters or well-wound put-
tees.
:J: * *
“Kellick”: The case of the trawler
Girl Pat presents some nice questions.
“Commandeered” by captain and crew,
the craft disappears for a few weeks, and
then bobs up in an out-of-the-way port
half-way across the globe. Meanwhile
the owners collect part insurance, and
they now inform a dazed world that no
legal action will be taken. But, having
collected three thousand from the under-
writers, are they still the owners?
* * * *
“Talahua”: Squabbles there may have
been from time to time on naval
survey ships (B. 10/6/’36)—-what ship’s
company doesn’t have ’em? —but when
“Captain Pintle” burbles about the
devastating influence of Darwin’s Hebes
on the Admiralty charts he’s ’way
out of his reckoning. Doesn’t he
realise that anything feminine that
could remotely be accused of inspiring
“soft memories” —even in the breast of a
sailorman —would be snapped up and
married within a month of arrival in the
Territory? Darwin gave up importing
barmaids years ago—in fact, I doubt if
a real, dinkum one has been seen there
since the days of Vesteys.
“Becks”: Strolling down Bourke-street
(Melb.) the other day I chanced upon a
Greek bookshop. Its windows were full
of volumes in that strange language of
which Shakspeare knew so little. Classics
jostled modern Greek novels and
political works, and copies of an
Athens newspaper were proudly
displayed for sale. Just inside the
door was a small boy engrossed in
a small paper-covered book. His
features suggested that he was a
true Greek, probably the son of
the proprietor. Inquisitively I
walked close to see what he was
reading. Would it be Thucydides
or Demosthenes? Neither. I
could see the name quite clearly—•
Tufty Thomson, the Whizz-bang
Winger.
“Findy”: An old-fashioned penny-in-the-
slot chocolate machine sent my mind back
to childhood days, when such things were
an irresistible attraction. Many a time my
coin would go into their maw ; I would
tug savagely or gently, coaxingly or
buliyingly; there would be a metallic
clank as the purchase price dropped
down, and I would retire baffled and
penniless. There were other times when
the tray would materialise with nothing
in it. It all came back to me the other
Sunday when I was waiting for a train—
and with it came the old urge. In went
my penny. I gripped, tugged and coaxed.
Clank ! I suppose I was always unlucky,
for a few minutes later I noticed a fond
mother lifting a small child up to the
machine. “Put the penny in there,” she
bid him. “Now pull that. There now,
isn’t that a lovely chocolate?”
*** ~ *
“Rusty”: All thieves aren’t unreason-
able. A traveller borrowed £1 from a
friend at Swan Hill (Vic.), promising to
return it in a few days to a post-office
address in another town. The lender’s
name was Andersen, and he duly col-
lected the letter, which was unregistered.
The envelope had been opened and re-
sealed ; it contained a ten-shilling note
and a memo.: “Sorry. The letter isn’t
mine, although the name is spelt the
same unusual way. I’m hard up, but I’ll
go 50-50 with you in the quid.”
* * * ;tj
“Kwakprak”: Those amateur enthusi-
asts in nutrition who demand a standard
national diet for all and sundry overlook
those curious reactions which science
terms food-allergies. Most of us know
how some people get asthma, skin erup-
tions, sick headaches or bilious attacks
after eating lobster or strawberries. But
even such plain, honest, universally-
advised foods as wholemeal, potatoes,
eggs, fish or even milk may, and do, up-
set certain people just as unpleasantly,
and even seriously. The condition arises
from protein-content of some special
kinds, not yet identifiable. Modern in-
vestigators consider that much chronic
“ill-health” is due to unrecognised
allergies. Suspected cases qre put on a
special diet, with all the commonest
allergy-provokers left out. If relief
follows, items are added experimentally
until a return of symptoms indicates the
particular food to which the person re-
A WINTER LAMENT.
Now we’re right into the season when we
always do a freeze on getting up and
find the reason
For the morning shower weak;
For there’s truly scant diversion in the shiver-
ing excursion to the bathroom for
immersion
When the atmosphere is bleak.
It's the season when for hiking lads and maids
revive their liking, when the mountain
winds are striking
With a cold and bitter shock;
It’s a time for blue-edged noses and a happy
spin for Moses when the topcoats (one
supposes)
Come by dozens out of hock.
There’ll be plenty who are scowling and con-
tinually growling when the westerlies are
howling
And all Nature feels the chill;
But continued application of that potent com-
bination in which rum has some
equation
Will a little cheer instil.
It’s a time for stoicism to withstand the
paroxysm of the much-cursed rheuma-
tism
(Or, vernacularly, “screws”),
And lor coughs and sniffs and sneezes and
those seasonal diseases which are borne
on wog-charged breezes
And afflict us with the blues.
When we slush on through the drizzle it is
hard to stop a grizzle as we ponder on
the frizzle
We complained of months ago.
Everywhere we go we hurry, though the chil-
blains give us curry; life for lots be-
comes a worry
And for some poor souls a woe.
But, although so unalluring, winter’s ills are
not enduring. All save one; he needs
immuring—
That’s the fellow, none too rare,
Who will never cease his boasting, as before
a bright and roasting fire his shins he’s
slowly toasting,
Flow he loves this bracing air!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Cl< 4V
EM
«
r ~^r
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
20/^6
10/;w9 a
LMI
Olewi&m&etL
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
FREAKS
GENERA TI ON
THE C
RK TIPP€D CIGARETTE OF THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
Now it’s “Join the U.A.P. and See the
World and Get a Title.”
Sir Archdale Parkhill, K.C.M.G.!
Well, the public has the consolation of
knowing that it means removing a very
unsuitable politician from the list of
Priministerial possibilities. No knight
has become a P.M., although Barton took
a title in his second year when he was
meditating his retreat to the High Court
Bench. And not even the U.A.P. bosses
are stupid enough to appeal to an elec-
torate which is far from being humorless
with Sir Archdale Parkhill, K.C.M.G., as
leader.
In Birmingham last week Dr. Page
burbled something about the need for
“an increase in Empire trade.” On the
same day Father Bull renewed his agree-
ment with Denmark under which the
Danes have been spending a pound in
Britain for every £3 or £4 spent by
Britain in Denmark. Father must get a
lot of quiet amusement out of pulling
the legs of our wandering old boys.
In Payne v. the Federal Commissioner
of Taxation, the Privy Council decided
that the Gavan Duffy-Evatt-McTiernan
judgment was right; in effect, that the
Commissioner was justified in taxing
exchange in addition to £5OOO-odd paid
into Payne’s account in London, and
never transferred to Australia. But
though the judgment was right in law
the tax was morally wrong, and, in the
case of a Government crying out for
capital and immigrants, politically stupid.
Spooner’s Local Government Bill,
which, according to Assistant Minister
Ryan, would have deprived half a mil-
lion N.S.W. people of the franchise, was
lost in the Leg. Council on a third-read-
ing division. Voting was 20 for and
against, and the President —John Peden —
gave his casting vote for the “Noes.”
Concealing his satisfaction with difficulty,
he explained that he was “following pre-
cedent.”
Still utterly callous, the murderer Kopit
received a “life” sentence at Brisbane on
Friday. The monster took the lives of
two passengers sleeping in a Government
train, and battered the conductor so ter-
ribly that the poor fellow is now as help-
less’ as a baby. If ever there was a case
for hanging this was one, but “Queens-
land has abolished capital punishment,
life being a sacred thing.”
In the matter of spraying persons who
helped Lyons to become —and remain—
P.M. the fountain of honor seems inex-
haustible. Titles have been got for the
boss of the newspaper which puffed him
first; for the politician who stood aside
for him and the other who has been his
offsider ; for his doctor and for the chair-
man of his political organisation (the
new one, of course); and minor decora-
tions have rained on members of his
personal staff, including a typist and a
car-driver. Perhaps it will be the
butcher’s turn next.
At the Sydney Sheep Show Lyons
effusively thanked “the newspapers” for
obligingly “keeping out of the ring” dur-
ing the early rounds of his quarrel with
the Japanese. Certain Great Dailies
have kept “out of the ring” to the extent
of glossing over the facts of the slump in
prices at wool and sheep sales. This kind
of thing may earn the thanks of party
politicians, but it is not playing the game
with the public.
Before the Democratic Convention
met at Philadelphia A 1 Smith and four
other Democratic leaders of pre-New
Deal days issued a statement imploring
the delegates to put Roosevelt aside and
nominate “a genuine Democrat.” They
nominated Roosevelt, and Smith and his
friends are expected to “bolt.” “Bolting”
is usually fatal to the candidate who
suffers the experience—for example,
“bolting” Republicans prevented the re-
election of Taft and the election of
Blaine —but conditions have changed. As
A 1 Smith himself said, in the pithiest ol
comments on Rooseveltism, “Nobody
shoots Santa Claus.”
So far M.L. Labor has not found jt
necessary to increase taxes, nor has it
sought out its country’s second-best cus-
tomer in order to pick a quarrel with it.
For eight months of the financial year,
its opponents were in office. And last
week it announced that the audited
accounts show a surplus of £281,800, and
declared that “the country is well on
the way to complete recovery.” Every-
one hopes so, but there are huge bills-
40-hour week, for instance —to come in,
and more are being prepared.
British Labor’s rage at being deprived
of a war with Italy was suggestive of a
vulture being dragged from its prey. Yet
it has voted against every proposal to
place its country in a position to wage
even a war of defence; and since the
London County Council came under
Labor control it has vetoed the forma-
tion and training of cadet corps in board
schools and even refused to permit one
of the last things written by Beatty
to be read in them on Empire Day.
“By the Temple of my royal ancestor, it’s melting!”
The chairman of the County Council
is Herbert Morrison, the unspeakable
ass who called upon the Italians to
overthrow Mussolini and his Fascists
and said, in effect, that he knew they
would do it because he, Herbert Morri-
son, had asked them to.
It’s just as well for the Queensland
sugar interest that the renewal of the
agreement for maintenance of existing
prices was put through Parliament before
the Bowen by-election. Cane is grown
in parts of Bowen, especially about
Proserpine ; and Proserpine put the Com-
munist candidate at the head of the poll,
with 63 more votes than the Labor man,
who was elected. It would have been
hard to get the agreement renewed for
five years if the cry had been raised that
the canefields had become hotbeds of
Communism.
Again there was no Japanese buying
at the Brisbane wool sales, compared
with April rates, prices were “5 p.c. lower
for best fleece wools and skirtings, 10 p.c.
lower for average descriptions and 15 p.c.
to 20 p.c. lower for inferior sorts.” And
once more “withdrawals were heavy.
That was on the first day. A report that
there had been no further fall on the
second day moved Thorby, Dr. Page s
locum at Canberra, to “express satisfac-
tion” and to assert that “no significance
can be attached to the poor market loi
inferior wools.” (There is too much
dashed significance for men who can t
sell them.)
Within three months the wisdom of
the Government’s tariff action will be
apparent to everyone.
Within 18 months it will be apparent to
everyone that C'alare (N.S.W.) has no
further use for Thorby.
There used to be a fast and cheap pri-
vate bus service from Sydney’s Central
Station to Cronulla beach, but it was
wiped out in the name of “transport co-
ordination.” Then private buses —heavily
taxed and with no security of tenure —
were allowed to ply to Cronulla from
Hurstville and Sutherland, passengers
travelling from Sydney being forced to
make part of the journey in Government
trams. Now there is to be a Govern-
ment railway from Sydney to Cronulla,
and the Railway Commissioner reports
that, provided about two-sevenths of the
cost is debited to unemployed-relief tax-
revenue, the annual loss may be kept
down to £22,179. Not all the crazy
people are under restraint.
Queensland’s star effort in “transport
co-ordination” is the five-mile spur line
from Eagle Junction to Pinkenba. The
district being inside the metropolitan
area, it is free of the Strangulation
Board, and the public is at liberty to
use such transport as it prefers, except
for what the City Council can do in the
way. of forcing trams upon it So en-
thusiastically is the line avoided that,
although it traverses closely-populated
suburbs, and ends at the principal down-
river wharf, it has lost £3.4,644 of the tax-
payers’ money in two years.
The death of William Carroll has left
Westralia a man short in the Senate. The
executive of the Country party organisa-
tion picked T. W. Marwick as Carroll’s
successor (a whole 22 were present), but
the vacancy will not be filled until the
State Parliament meets in a month or
two. Long ago, when Senator Ewing,
afterwards a Tasmanian politician and
judge, resigned, the Perth Government
of the day took the thoroughly logical
step of offering the seat to the seventh
man in the ballot —it was after the origi-
nal Commonwealth elections. He de-
clined, which opened the way for No. 8.
H. J. Saunders. Saunders closed with
the offer, but as Parliament had been
prorogued pending a dissolution he had
no chance of taking his seat. Nor did
he stand again.
From an old Sunday-newspaperman:
Lang and the A.L.P. heads and the bosses
of the dwindling band of unions that are still
for “the Big Fellow” threaten to bring out a
Sunday paper, and there is to be “a minimum
annual profit of £5000” from the jump. Ihe
last Sunday newspaper venture in Sydney
turned up its toes after the third issue ; and
it had a rich backer. The last Labor news-
paper venture went west in a twelvemonth or
so, with about £lOO,OOO of good union money
—and almost as much had been lost on Labor
dailies (deceased) in Adelaide and Hobart.
Within the last six years, Sydney lias wit-
nessed the death and burial of the Sunday
and Daily “Guardian,” the Sunday and
Evening “News” and the “Sunday Times.
The devotion impelling the pro-Lang unions
may be magnificent, but it’s not business.
Amiable as our friends of the Nether-
lands and the Netherlands East Indies are,
it is still true that
In matters of commerce the fault of the
Dutch
Is offering too little and asking too much.
From the Netherlands East Indies, Aus-
tralia is buying four times as much as it
sells, to those possessions—-and Japanese
controversialists are making the most of
the disparity. Chatting with Menzies in
pleasant tulip fields beside the Zuyder
Zee, the Dutch mentioned that they
would be delighted if their Douglas air-
craft were allowed to extend their Hol-
land-Java service—“to Darwin and even
to Sydney,” “S. M. Herald” puts it.
And Granny says “it would be a foolish
and retrograde policy to deny them the
permission they seek.”
From “Simple Simon”:
Recent weeks have disclosed hitherto hidden
qualities in the make-up of Peter Connolly,
former Labor M.L.A. for Newcastle. To-day
the ratepayers of his city stand in fear and
trembling ’while Peter, strong and (probably
for the first time) silent, considers.
Two Newcastle aldermen resigned. Peter
Connolly and 10 others nominated for the by-
election.’ Peter’s nomination was rejected at
the last minute on the ground that he owed
the council £1 for electric light. A day or so
afterwards it was found that £l, plus interest,
had lain to his credit in the books for eight
years. The Local Government Department
ruled that the by-election must go on, but
Connolly, if he wished, would be at liberty
to launch ouster proceedings once it was over.
Two non-Labor candidates got in.
And now Newcastle waits at Peter’s mercy.
He may commence proceedings likely to involve
the ratepayers in heavy costs and a second elec-
tion; or he may make himself a good fellow,
in anticipation of the next State election.
Meanwhile he remains silent. Newspapermen
approach him from time to time, but Con-
nolly, grim and determined, repeats the assur-
ance that his legal advisers —apparently legion
—are “still considering the position.”


HONORARY CONCILIATION.
“An experiment in settling matrimonial disputes by way of conciliation is to be tried in South Australia. The Government has appointed an honorary conciliator ”


mi Mm#®
m
IM Ml
mmLM
m
<omz-io>s
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
pHrZQWJ*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV\ LTD., Melbournai
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
M 153
IN
Fit
F l 5
A i
IT* HERE should be a Mazda lamp in
your cupboards and wardrobe. All
that business of groping in semi-
darkness is fooling and unnecessary.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, • Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEM S
On his way back to Queensland, after
seven months abroad, Premier Forgan
Smith had rather a bad turn in Sydney.
It compelled him to go into St. Luke’s
Hospital instead of returning straightway
to Brisbane, and the experience may have
some influence on his future. People in
other States fancy that Forgan Smith
aspires to the Prime Ministership. Bris-
bane newspapermen are of opinion that
he wants to become State Governor, and
that his three meetings with King
Edward within a fortnight were not alto-
gether inspired by mutual liking. They
recall that Westralian Labor transferred
James Mitchell, the defeated Premier, to
the Government House in Perth, and that,
although Mitchell ranks only as Lieut.-
Governor, he is in his fourth year, hav-
ing discharged the duties so satisfactorily
that nobody has suggested a Downing-
street appointment. Mitchell, however, is
21 years older than Forgan Smith, who
is 49.
James Allan, head of the big Brisbane
Allan and Stark firm, is 80 this year.
Allan was a son of Airdrie (Scotland),
JAMES ALLAN, of Brisbane.
and still has traces of his native land in
his speech, though he has been in Aus-
tralia since 1879. He came out under
contract to D. L. Brown, but formed
his present business in 1882. He has
been president of the Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce, and the Y.M.C.A. has to
thank him for many years of help. For
two terms he sat in the Queensland
Leg. Assembly. During the war he was
on special duty in England and France
for two years. His elder son, R.M., is
Professor of Obstetrics at Melbourne
University.
The fine old Victorian whom another
generation knew as “Sam Mauger the
hatter” is dead, at 78. His was a busy
and uncommonly useful life. Mason,
Rechabite, A.N.A., Y.M.C.A., W.E.A.
and Industrial Fellowship man, he
founded Victoria’s Fire Brigades’ Asso-
ciation and its Anti-sweating League,
and was vice-president of its Honorary
Justice. He was always an ardent Pro-
tectionist, and as such got into the State
Parliament as M.L.A. for Footscray, into
the Commonwealth Parliament as
M.H.R. for Melbourne Ports and Mari-
byrnong, and into the second Deakin
Ministry as Postmaster-General. Gee-
long was his birthplace, and it has given
no more sterling character to public life
than Samuel Mauger.
Some July birthdays:
Granville Ryrie (“the old Brig.”), 71, and
Prof. Bernard Heinze (Melb.), 42, on Ist;
Prof. W. H. Bragg, F.R.S. (formerly of Adel.),
74, and R.C. Bishop Byrne' (Toowoomba), 66,
on 2nd; Theo Fink (Melb.), 81. and Proi.
F. Bevan (Adel.), 80, on 3rd; former Speck
Premier McPhee, 58, Bishop Elsey (Kalgoorlie),
56, and Federal Assistant Minister Tom
Brennan, 67, on 4th ; Prof. Thos. Parnell (Q.),
55, and Taylor Darbyshire (Aust. Press Assoc.,
London), 61, on sth; Gov.-Gen. Lord Gowrie,
64, William Irvine, sometime Premier and
C.J. (Vic.), 78, Judge Perdriau (N.S.W.), 56,
and Tom Dunbabin (editor “Sun,” Syd.), 53,
on 6th; Percy Grainger, 54, on Bth; Justice
Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 66, Vic. Attorney-
General A. L. Bussau, 52, and Harold Boyce
(British M.P., b. at Taree, N.S.W.), 41, on
9th; Prof. H. A. Woodruff (Melb.), 59, on
10th; Chief Justice Belcher, of Trinidad (b. at
Geelong), 60, Brig.-Gen. Lachlan C. Wilson
(Q.), 65, A. H. E. Mattingley (Vic.), 66, and
Dr. W. G. K. Duncan (Director, Tutorial
Classes, Syd. Uni.), 33, on 11th; Brig-Gen.
Leane (S.A. Police Com.), 58, A. M. Eedy
(Mutual Life and Citizens'), 66, on 12th;
Spencer Browne (Brisbane), 80, E. E. Unwin
(Friends’ School, Hobart), 55, Opposition-
leader Tunnecliffe, M.L.A. (Vic.), 67, and
Lieut.-Col. G. C. Somerville (sec., Royal Agric.
Soc., N.S.W.), 58, on 13th; Prof. Peter Mac-
Callum (Melb.), 51, on 14th; Lloyd Dumas
(Adel. “Advertiser”), 46, on 15th; Prof. R. L.
Dunbabin (Tas.), 67, and author Dorothy
Cottrell, on 16th; J. A. Henderson (Aus.
Metrop. Life Assoc.), 63, on 17th;
F. M. Forde, M.H.R., 46, Prof. Davies,
Mus. Doc. (Adel.), 69, bibliographer
Percival Serle (Melb.), 65, Syd. Muni-
cipal Librarian C. H. Bertie, 61, and May
Holman, M.L.A. (W.A.), on 18th; Vice-
Admiral G. F. Hyde, 59, and Sam Bennett
(W.A. Government Statistician), 58, on 19th;
Prof. J. B. Brigden (Q.), 49, on 20th; Knight
E. F. Mitchell, K.C. (Vic.), 81, Dr. Cunning-
ham (“Argus”), 77, and “Srniler” Hales (b, at
Adel.), 66, on 21st; Q. Mines Minister Stop-
ford, 58, on 22nd; N.S.W. Parliamentary
Librarian J. J. Quinn, 57, on 24th; Bishop
Moyes (Armidale, N.S.W.), 52, knight Gen-
goult Smith (former Lord Mayor of Melb.),
46, and T. M. Shakespeare (N.S.W. Country
Press Assoc.), 63, on 25th; W. R. Alexander
(Clerk of Parliaments, Vic.), 65, Justice Crisp
(Speck), 62, D. K. Picken, M.A. (Ormond
Coll., Melb.), 57, and S.A. Crown Solicitor
Hannan, 49, on 27th; Randolph Bedford,
M.L.A. (Q.), 68, Judge Foster (Vic.), 50, and
J. V. Fairbaim, M.H.R. (Flinders), 39, on
28th: F. S. Mance (N.S.W. Mines Dept.), 64,
on 30th; and surgeon Alexander MacCormick,
80, on 31st.
The N. S. Wales Imperial Service Club
will miss Johnny Broadbent, who re-
signed the secretaryship last week, and
who has been a sort of mascot all
through the de-
pression years.
Originally a
grazier, he was ap-
pointed to the job
in 1931, and the
worse things be-
came in the old
and dingy build-
ing which the club
occupied in O’Con-
nell-street the hap-
pier he seemed to
be. No job was
too tough for him
and no situation
had him stumped.
Before he went he
left the club in
comfortable quar-
ters with a neat
bank balance, and
the committee
made him a life
member to recog-
nise his work. It
is more than likely
that after a
month’s spell Johnny’s new 7 address
will be the advertising department
of The Bulletin. His war service? He
rarely speaks of that, but he was a cap-
tain in the 20th Battalion, with a splendid
record and an M.C. Young Broadbent,
the flier, is a stepson.
Westralia has sent few native-born
members to the Commonwealth Parlia-
JOHNNY BROADBENT. M.C.
ment, and is without one in the House
of Reps. If the P.P.A. executive has its
way, Bertie Johnston will have a native
son, T. W. Marwick, as mate in the
Senate, though the State Parliament will
decide. Marwick belongs to an old York
family of farmers. His father, Warren
Marwick, was one of the original mem-
bers of the P.P.A.; the son, in addition
to belonging to that body, is chairman of
the York Roads Board. He is a genial,
smiling fellow who has shaken himself
free from the local obsession that the uni-
verse revolves round York.
Members of The Bulletin staff whose
work brings them in touch with the
postal authorities will greatly miss Fred-
erick Young, the Sydney G.P.O. investiga-
tion officer, retired after nearly 52 years’
service—first under N. S. Wales and
later under Federal Administrations.
Fred's special task in recent years was
the tracking down of missing postal
articles and the handling of complaints
of an amazingly varied nature. He was
a fairly constant caller at The Bulletin
office on official business, and his tact,
firmness and desire to put things right
earned him a high place among the
paper’s list of friends.
“Geo”: Broken Hill mining com-
panies have a good many geologists on
their staffs, but apparently the opinions
of outsiders are more valued. Two years
ago a geologist came from the U.S.A. to
teach the men who have made the Zinc
Corporation mine world-famous how to
do their job better. Apparently they are
still supposed to have a lot to learn, as
another American, Dr. Gustafsen, is now
announced as due to arrive shortly at the
instance of the three great companies—
North, South and Zinc. I won’t give a
list of the local geologists who have im-
bibed the geology of the country with
their mother’s milk, for fear of possibly
injuring some of them ; I will merely
mention that Andrews, sometime N.S.W.
Government geologist, compiled a monu-
mental report on the geology of the
Broken Hill district, based on the work
of the local men, which made such an
impression on the university people of
the U.S.A. that they imported him
specially to give a series of lectures there.
Alfred Duff Cooper, whose anti-Ger-
man speech in the Commons embarrassed
the Baldwin Government last week, has
plenty of brains and influence. His uncle
(the Duke of Fife)
married King
George’s sister,
and he himself
married Lady
Diana Manners.
Duff Cooper was a
history honors
man at Oxford,
was in the Foreign
Office for a time,
knows his France
and Germany and
their tongues inti-
mately, served five
years in the Great
War (D. 5.0.) and
has made his name
as a biographer—
Haig’s official life
is his work. And
a flair for figures
made him Finan-
cial .Secretary to
the War Office
four years after he
entered Parliament.
In 1934 he became
Financial Secretary to the Treasury,
and then War Minister. In his
younger days he was a good-look-
ing chap, but his forties have brought
him a bit of surplus weight.
Mrs. Booth Clibborn, who has been
visiting Sydney, is the eldest daughter of
the founder of the Salvation Army. As
Kate Booth, she married Colonel Clib-
born in 1887, whereupon the colonel, by
deed-poll, assumed the name of Booth-
Clibborn. His wife, known as “La Mare-
chale,” planted the Salvation flag in
France, but she and her husband seceded.
The lady said she wanted more liberty
to preach the full gospel. Her husband
joined forces with Australia’s old
acquaintance “Elijah” Dowie. Kate
Booth was the third of the founder’s
children to secede ; Herbert and Balling-
ton Booth were the others.
A couple of years before August, 1914,
four or five young R.A.A. and R.E. offi -
cers sat in the messroom at the Petrie-
terrace Barracks in Brisbane sipping the
The Commandant ( S.A. ).
last drink of the evening and listening
to an infirm gramophone playing “Rose
of Persia” ditties. There was the usual
grousing about the monotony of life,
and one remarked that it was about time
there was a decent war. “Then,” said
he, “we’d all be generals.” Shouts of
derision were heard. But there wav
a war, and everybody in the room
in time became either a general
or a colonel. One, Lavarack, is to-
day Inspector-General. Another —he
who yearned for a war —was A. H. Mar-
tyn, the S. Aus. commandant, with the
C.M.G., D.S.O. to prove that he took his
fighting seriously. An Armidale School
boy and Sydney University B.E. of
splendid physique, he joined the R.A.E.
in 1906, was at the Landing and came
back four years later to act as engineer
instructor at Duntroon. He graduated to
be Base Commandant at Perth, which he
has recently left to take up his new post.
From “Awake, Arise!”:
The Australian “honors” list was much as
usual, except that the material in the P.M.’s
office is running scarce. Parkhill will be
able to add the insignia of a K.C.M.G. to
his jubilee medal. He is a small, plump person,
who sports a black boxer hat and from behind
looks like his colleague, Sydney Snow, K.8.E.,
cut in halves. Sydney also wears a hard-hitter,
but eschews gloves and spats, making up for
them by owning half a squadron of cars.
He is a draper and chairman of the N.S.W.
U.A.P. Among the other knights, Alan
Newton is one of Melbourne Hospital’s
old-standing honorary surgeons, and Bickerton
Blackburn, Dean of the Sydney Medical
Faculty till a year ago, is a Digger and
has done a lot of repatriation work. Dick
Linton, apart from being an Agent-General
for Victoria, founded the Big Brother move-
ment. And nobody will grudge Francis
Anderson, professor of logic and philosophy at
Sydney University, his “Sir.” As president of
the League of Nations Union he has had a
bad year.


STOP!
worrying about that probable dose of
’FLU
ALWAYS KEEP HANDY A PACKET OF
HALIBUT
They will protect you from COUGHS, COLDS,
WHOOPING COUGH AND 'FLU.
Even though the weather be dull you can carry
Concentrated SunshiAe
IN CUBES
Doctors and nurses will appreciate your taking a packet of
Halibut Malt Barlees to relatives or friends in hospital, as the
Glucose and the Halibut Oil will assist a speedy recovery,
and thus make available beds for many more unfortunates
who are desperately in need of the care and attention that
can only be obtained in these great institutions.
ci rUE TOURING TEAM. >«6.
rHE RUGBY LEAGUE ===== =r— '
fHb (T— ' L *
(Founded 18^5.)
DOtfCA'
IW»anag® r * 1
R . F. ANDEKTOM
w rOEE'-EWE' E.
Tea** ‘
W BrougH. l( " ap
A. Edwards, Saifori
S. Smith, te»*.
J). HUDSON,
, c MoRUA', IW*-
A . ATK.NSON, C»HW».'
F. Harris, tnds-
A j. BismaM, Salford
F j Davies.
s. BROODES.
E. Jenkins, Salford.
W. Watkins, Sol/o r<l
T McCue,
. Liverpool S' o ”'”
W Woods, A 1 ’" 1
u A. Troup, Barroro
| ARKWRIGHT, IVR'"»S I 0”
, M.EUE-,
„ JOSES. K«W»
N . SHCOCK, WJacr
M . HODGSON, Snail**
H. FIELD, york.
T A«M irr ' Saatm
H. BEVP««’ l,uml “
H Ellerington. II" 1 -
„ „ EXUEV, WahefioUr
“!S'"kw** 4 3t ’' ee ’
Dear Sir*. tetu* «*""*
BMW train 1 ”* tM express
part ° fed toy rse P lay lnfficiai Uassear)
“” l
’° rld ‘ of course,
,n«e * troß l^Sds
amount 01 3°. «Yricb* ,* rom n p 9 et,.
t*e PW«i! tiled «^ eCt «B olrtainly
flavour «*» ’“I f view was » atr enuous v
»“'“<l'ir'"« t», nor only
tss»V.".i»^.*" i,i, w ■ ....
tice gam e also re-ei»=*-o
r excellent ,«*■•» *» “T '
?,SSt.CU»-
yours
R .p. jvnciertott,
Manager*
READ what the English team
manager says of concentrated
sunshine —Halibut Halt Barlees
to you.
Barlees were recommended by
the official masseur, Mr. Eang-
ridge, a recognised training
authority 1 lie world over.
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
47 CUBES FOR 2/-
MM
THE ENGLISH RUGBY LEAGUE
TEAM TRAINS ON CONCENTRATED
SUNSHINE.
England has sent her greatest football
giants to do battle against Australia —men
that Nature specially endowed with physi-
cal powers to win football games. But
Nature, lavish as she is with her gifts, must
depend on Man to renew tissue so prodi-
gally dissipated.
r
And these footballers, on the considered
recommendation of the official masseur
(Mr. Langridge), famous throughout the
sporting world, are making Halibut Malt
Barlees an essential part of their training
diet.
Barlees contain Halibut Oil, Scottish Malt
and Glucose, giving Vitamins A and D,
which are indispensable for growth,
strength and body-building—vital ele-
ments, needed by everyone, adults and
children —as they help ward off Coughs,
Colds, Influenza and Whooping Cough.
BARLEES ARE DELICIOUS.
They are extremely palatable, and
there is not the slightest taste of
Halibut Oil.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send to Halibut Malt Barlees Co. (Dept.
IE), 92-96 Shepherd Street, Sydney, for
free sample. Enclose 2d. to cover cost
of packing.
HALIBUT MALT BARLEES CO.,
92-96 Shepherd Street, Sydney.
Please send me Picture of the English Football Team
in exchange for Barlees carton herewith. I enclose
4d. to cover cost of packing and postage.


How Much Time
ss«» ssj*
vom* Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend 0 ' t )f
Estate all the time —your friend caii probably only attend to p:
them for part of the time.
Directors: _ , . All „
T H Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. JLysaght,
Die lit.-Col. the Hon. X. A. 3. Playfair, M.C.C., E. R. Knox Kde K. Cndmote,
R. Copland Kethforidge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
all or write for Explanatory Booklet. 11. V. Douglass, Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
TAcensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 7930-JZ.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS o£ R G l^ <l ’ Cower Co°pper o?es, Copper Precipitated.
°Si Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF p nn npr Sulphate (Bluestone).
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA- brand of -Copper B a bbit a nd other
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION MET AES. G ’ jj n yers’ own specifications.
Bearing and Antifriction Metals t 0 . l \ionol'vpo and' other Printers’ Metals
PRINTERS’ METALS.— Linotype, Stereotype, Monotjpe anu fi ng^
to Standard h ormuLe application to any of the Company’s
Purchase terms and selling prices will be . *
offices, viz.. — T \ NSW
Smelting Works and Refineries: P° BT^“„ n ' e office: 360 Collins Street.
Svdnev Office: 25 O’Connell Street.. or Port Kembla.
«OLDmN B T Rt‘^ C y o^ d ?o 8 . 9 a 5
of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
f —Dividends—Writ-
Govt.’s Ord. ten
March, Profit. Divs. 13J p.c. Oft. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 912,160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,70 S
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14 J p.c. 74 p.c.
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,500 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73.511 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 537,500 49,219 3,970,056
Hi p.c.
1933.. 594,270 173,437 421,875 49,219 3,919,795
10 p.c.
1934.. 573,033 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,918.009
1935.. 578,748 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,923,138
1936.. 505,181 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,914,100-
The Central Reserve Bank began busi-
ness on August 1, 1934. It took over
the Government accounts, previously
kept by the B.N.Z. for 70 years ; it also
acquired the trading banks’ gold re-
serves, paying in paper at the statutory
price of the metal, and became sole note-
issuing authority in the Dominion.
Biggest loss to the B.N.Z. was its ex-
change pickings on Government account.
Within the Dominion the Government
continues to bank with its old financial
associate —it is a large shareholder in it
—at all branches except Wellington. In
local, currency there was a loss of about
45 p.c. on the £1,770,499 of gold sold to
the Reserve Bank. The 8.N.Z., however,
stood to make something on its London
funds.
With the basis of its functions altered
to a considerable extent —the Reserve
Bank took over the note issue from
August, 1934, also—the B.N.Z. might be
expected to reflect the changes in its p.
and 1. account. Actually nothing very
interesting has happened to net earnings
for the past three years, which of itself
may be significant; with the general im-
provement in trade better results would
ordinarily be expected. _ Last year’s net
profit, though only £13,567 down on the
1935 result, was the lowest since 1923.
Gross revenue, after providing for
contingencies, was up £40,611:
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes,
j i)24 .. £1,709,289 £562,596 £389,661
] 928 .. 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1930 .. 2,013,526 684,745 359,648
1 <): > X .. 2,009,412 696,515 445,884
"] i)32 '. . 1,770,686 659,629 502,535
1933 .. 7,740,339 644,194 486,675
1934 .. 1,569,907 652,103 323,511
1935 .. 1,468,371 651,708 231,439
1930 .. 1,508,982 652,608 _ 291,193
* After making provision for contingencies.
Ordinary exes, were only £9OO higher ;
it was taxation (£291,193, up £59,754)
that gave the figures a pale appearance.
Allowing for pref. and mortgage share
divs., the profit which remained was
equal to 9.7 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 10.1, 9.9, 9.9, 8.1, 15 and 17.8 p.c.
back to 1930. In July, 1934, the co.
repaid £529,989 of 4 p.c. guaranteed
stock out of London funds, and that has
had its effect on the allocation of profits
over the past two years. Last term the
ord. div., which had been steady at 14 1-3
p.c. for the half-dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1932, was kept at 10 p.c.
The Reserve Bank has already taken
to itself, as a monopoly, a much larger
slice of banking business than the Com-
monwealth Bank has done in Australia.
As from August 1 the private banks lose
the financing of dairy-produce exports ;
should wool and meat' come under the
Savage Government’s guaranteed price
and marketing scheme, the banks will be
entirely deprived of their regular means
of replenishing London funds, and will
have to buy their exchange requirements
from the Reserve Bank. Already the im-
pending loss of exchange on dairy-pro-
duct exports threatens to make some of
the B.N.Z.’s branches and business un-
profitable.
Thus, though sales-tax collections were
up 13.7 p.c. last year and building and
employment figures were better, the pri-
vate banks cannot be expected to reap
the share of benefits that have hitherto
been their privilege. Many avenues ol
profit—through note issues, exchange and
Government business —have been closed
or restricted.
Some of the changes show up in the
B.N.Z.’s balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1326.. £4,444,392 £3,721,791 £31,121,288
1928.. 3,797,080' 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897,609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
1932.. 4.062,762 3,720,191 31,565,843
1933.. 4,338,747 3,560,404 32.573.239
1934.. 4,259.149 3,437,612 34,328,004
1935.. 503,779 3,838,441 33,195,(j14
1936.. 324,452 3,832,209 35,740,430
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1926.. £26,482,848 £22,662,697 £454,103
1928.. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22,841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
1932.. 24,199,750 25,653,321 622,825
1933.. 25,712,572 25,079,868 632,771
1934.. 29,971,471 22,370,341 667,496"
1935.. 25,907,405 21,490,732 673,678
1936.. 27,611,574 22,179,373 673,143
The big contraction in the note issue in
1935 and repayment of guaranteed de-
bentures meant a drop in liquids and a
tightening in advances. Last year deposi-
tors came to light with an extra
£2,541,816, but only £688,641 more was
put out on advance. The bank is in a
position to make much wider use of its
resources when occasion permits. Only
62 p.c. of the deposits was out on ad-
vance at March 31, as against 67.7 p.c.
in 1935 and 85.8 p.c. in 1930.
At the 425. 9d. current market, the £1
ords. yield present buyers 4.6 p.c. on the
basis of last year’s 10 p.c. disbursement.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends s
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. To lie- Ile-
Mai\, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves. *
£ £ £ £ £ £
J 925. . 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1526. . 50.453 10.500 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 180.0 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 275,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,870
1933.. 34,107 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42 324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,600'
Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Warehousing of any kind isn’t an easy
field these days, and the growth of
chain grocery stores hasn’t made things
any less difficult for dry-goods merchants.
Newfangled breakfast and other foods
there are by the score, many handled by
more or less specialty manufacturers.
Harpers make many lines of their own,
and have a position second to none in
their way of business; but competition
is keen —and growing.
Last term net profit's contracted by
£5057, dropping to 10.1 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal (after attending to the prefs. and B
shares), as against 12.2, 9.7, 8.8, 11.1,
11.3 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1930.- The
ord. div. remained steady at 8 p.c.—it
hasn’t been interfered with since 1917,
and a 2 p.c. bonus went out in ’29 and
’3O.
The £430,000 of capital is in 150,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs. (enjoying priority as
to capital), 240,000 ords. and 40,000 B
(employees’) shares. The last are entitled
to three-fourths of the ord. div., with a
maximum of 6 p.c., but do not share in
surplus assets. The market for the ords.
remains firm around 50s. (up 2s. in 12
months), giving a present yield ol 3 2
p.c. —a very plain indication of the
appreciation of the management. The
prefs., not often dealt in, yield 4.6 p.c. at
30s. Net tangible backing is £4 10s. 6d.
per share prefs., £2 os. Bd. ords.
Strength in the finances shows up in
balance-sheet figures:
1932. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 41,778 47,297 49,056 43,096
Freeholds . . 145,605 146,188 145,647 145,444
Pant etc . 48 926 42,251 39,686 39,643
Stock .. 146,840 163,432 141,560 142,734
Sundry debtors 111,026 95,905 95,340 98,040
<! «S“S S «S"'M2,246 278,280 316,300 311,881
Fixed assets at £185,087 (down £246) are
a conservative item; the co. owns no
leaseholds, but besides Melbourne head
office has premises in Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fremantle. Last term
stocks moved up only £1174, though
prices generally are a little higher than
a year ago; debtors were up £2695
in the books. Purely liquid assets—
cash, £170,670, and Government securi-
ties, £141,099, are among them —were
,£4416 lighter, mainly by reason of a re-
duction of £5960 in the outside debt.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
To- Nominal
wards lie- lie -
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1931.. 4,392 Nil 4392 4,392
1932.. 1,044 Nil 1044 5,436
Loss. Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,004
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,000
Profit.
1934.. 2,430 Nil 2430 2.7.230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7947 17,283
Pref.
04 p.c. Ord.
1930.. 15,224 730 01 p.c. = 5083 9405 7,878
* Subject to goodwill.
When this co. started a brewery in
Auckland in 1930, approximately 75 p.c.
of the hotels in that city were tied houses.
Notwithstanding that it was born dur-
ing the depression in such discouraging
circumstances, the co. has now reached
the div. list. It kicked off with a paid
capital of £73,274, which rose to £78,207
in 1933 and remained at that figure until
last term, when 40,000 p.c. prefs.
were issued, on which £30,312 has been
paid to date.
Small profits were shown in ’3l and
’32; in 1933, following a 50 p.c. in-
crease in excise duties, a loss of £14,002
showed up. Turnover at this time was
£90,000 p.a. Earnings have stepped up
steadily since ; they were equal to 3.1
p.c. on capital in 1934, 10.1 p.c. in 1935,
and last term, allowing for pref. re-
quirements, they reached 18.5 p.c. on
ord. capital. On both classes of scrip
64 p.c. was paid, and £9405 was car-
ried towards reserves, now £7878 short
of goodwill (£19,100, not treated as an
asset herein).
Details of last year’s remarkably good
showing are interesting. Gross profits
(£62,648) jumped £26,197 to by far the
best figure to date. Exes. (£47,424) rose
£18.921 ; the net result (£15,224) was thus
£7277 better.
The co. now controls just on 30 hotels,
having long leases in some cases and
freeholds in others. These houses would
absorb present output of the brewery for
six or seven years, the managing director
says. But the co. is already looking con-
templatively at the southern portion of
the North Island ; to date activities have
been concentrated round Auckland.
More capital may be asked for later on.
Finances are in good shape:
1934. 1935. 1930.
Paid capital .. •• £78,207 £78,207 £108,582
Sundry creditors .. 9,575 . 11,193 18,084
Overdraft •• •• J 9,226 18,780
Brewery freehold, etc... 11,405 11,429 16,177
Plant, etc. .. •• 31,885 37,734 4i,487
Stock 17,994 22,692 33,100
Sundry debtors. . . . 12,747 11,923 10,700
Cash, leaseholds, etc. . . 7,746 7,125 20,130
The £30,312 of pref. capital got in last
term enabled the overdraft (£18,786) to
be wiped out. Sundry creditors (£18,084)
moved up £6891 after £4749 had been
added to freeholds, £9753 to plant,
£10,414 to stocks, £3783 to debtors, £2025
to leaseholds, investments, etc., and
£10,980 to the cash holding. The liquid
position is easy, and should cover trade
expansion for some time yet.
Following issue of the balance sheet
the ords. rose sharply to 255. 6d., yield-
ing 5.1 p.c. on a 64 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible backing amounts to approxi-
mately £3 6s. Bd. per £1 of pref. capital,
and 18s. per ord. share.
The outlook is encouraging. Trade in
Maoriland continues to improve. Cer-
tainly the Savage Government has caused
considerable doubt in some avenues ;
but, given a reasonable chance, it
shouldn’t be long before Dominion
Breweries works itself into a good posi-
tion. The brew appears to be right, and
that means a lot.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Meib.)
Added
to Re— Re—
April, Profit. Dividends. serves. Serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 30.172 8 p.c. = 24,000 0,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ ~ 24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22,082 7 „ ~21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ ~.21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 „ ~ 21,000 1,806 119,980
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 111,003
Special provision depreciation, etc.,
£25,025 . . •. ' • • • • 88,978
Profit.
1932.. 2,625 Nil 2,625 91,603
1933 . . 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14.492 12* „ ~12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15* „ „ 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 f ~ 14,000 4,625 100,860
* Pref. only. t Pref., 6 p.c.; ord., 4 p.c.
Good work is being done by the manage-
ment. There is a great deal of competi-
tion in the Victorian biscuit trade these
days. And, though Swallow’s biscuits are
known from the South Aus. border to
Cape Howe, less familiarly in other parts
of the Commonwealth, and in the Islands
and Asia, there has never been over-
much in it for shareholders. After the
crash of the ’nineties it took 18 years
for the div. rate to climb to 54- p.c. There
was a pick-up during the war and imme-
diately after ; 10 p.c. divs. were paid for
the three years to 1920. In the next 10
years 7.4 p.c. was averaged. For the io!-
iowing live (slump and recovery) years
there was nothing in it for the ords.,
though earnings picked up smartly in
1934.
Lately the co.’s finances have shown
marked improvement also. Profits have
been written after overhauling the or-
ganisation. Gross income from the co.’s
own trading (£98,393, up £3192) and
from “other sources,” mainly the ice-
cream and dehydrated-fruits subsidiaries
(£4500, up £1734),. improved last term.
Exes. (£84,269) were up £3211 ; thus the
net result (£18,625) was £1715 better, and
equal to 6.3 p.c. on ord. capital, allow-
ing for the minimum pref. requirements
(6 p.c.). Arrears had been cleared off in
the previous year ; this term 4 p.c. was
handed to the ords., and £4625 carried
to reserves (now £100,860).
Improvement in the finances shows up
in this table :—•
1924. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Capital . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 45,335 91,521 40,674 37,739
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 24,000 2,500
Other debts.. 48,405 23,882 30,688 23,546
Fixed assets.. 326,773 343,560 296,397 285,904
Shares other cos. 674 48,716 48,716 48,716
Stocks . . 108,211 40,109 42,138 41,117
Book debts, etc. 92,732 98,391 94,615 97,242
Cash . . . . 307 232 230 167
Since 1933 £43,642 more has been written
off than has been spent on fixed assets
(£285,904, down £10,493 last term).
Stocks (now £41,117) and book debts
(£97,242) have shown little fluctuation in
that time. But the outside debt (£61,285,
down £12,587 last term) has been reduced
£45,674 in three years —a clear indication
of the good work being done. Interest
costs have been pulled back substantially.
Improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£77,241) during the past 12
months was £14,120.
The outlook is brighter than for some
years, granted a continuance of present
trading conditions. The sharemarket vvas
slightly disappointed with the ord. divi-
dend, quotations dropping back a few
pence on presentation of the accounts,
but they have since firmed to 19s. The
yield is 4.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or
5.3 p.c. if the rate lifts to 5 p.c. The net
tangible backing is 30s. The prefs. at
245. 6d. return 4.9 p.c., and have a back-
ing of £4 a share on book values.
Hume Pipe (Far East), Ltd.
To Re-
Mar Profit Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926 .. 8,033 10 p.c.- 4000 4,033 8,099
1927 .. 7,800 8 „ „ 3200 4,600 3,499
Reserves.
1928 . . 11,301 10 ~ ~ 4000 7,301 3,802
1929 .. 11,699 15 ~ ~ 6000 5,699 9,501
1930 . . 12,074 15 ~ ~ 6000 6,074 15,575
1931 . . 11,001 15 „ ~ 6000 5,001 20,576
1932 .. 1,679 10 „ ~ 4000 18,255
1933 . . 2,413 6 „ „ 2400 13 18,268
Written off £365 . . • ■ • • 17,903
1934 . . 3,627 6 p.c. = 2700 927 18,830
Written off, £3286 .. •• •- 15,544
Currency adjustment, £14,118 . . 29,662
1935 .. 1,610 3 p.c. = 1500 110 29,772
Unexplained additions, £3281 33,053
1936 . . 14,345 5 p.c.,= 2500 11,845 44,898
Turnover more than doubled during the
year. Most of the improvement came
from Malaya, where the co. originally
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


IVIN CHESTER
TRADE MARK
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAVING PROHIBITED
IMPORTATION OF WINCHESTER WORLD STANDARD
TRADE MARK
FIREARMS U FLASHLIGHTS IT WILL BE IMPOSSIBLE TO REPLACE STOCK
3?
s£m&
MODEL 67.
.22-cal. Single-shot Bolt-action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel, Elevating
Rear Sight, Sporting Bead Front Sight. azL I
For Short, Long and Long-rifle Cartridges. 45/“
FREAKS
MODEL 68.
.22-cal. Single-shot Bolt-action Rifle.
27in. Round Tapered Barrel, Adjustable
Peep Rear Sight, Ramp-base Front Sight with
cover. For Short, Long and Long-rifle ttC. /
Cartridges. OD/“
FREAKS
MODEL 62.
• 22-cal. Slide Arm Hammer Repeating
Rifle, 2 3 in. Round Tapered Barrel, Lyman
Bead Front Sight, Sporting Rear Sight. Magazine
capacity, 20 Short, 16 Long or 14 Long- .
rifle Cartridges. ' £5/5/“
FREAKFREAKSS
MODEL 53.
Lever-action 7-shot Repeating Rifle. In
Calibres .25/20 and .32. 22in. Round
Tapered Barrel, Lyman Gold Bead Front
Sight and Adjustable Elevating Rear Sight. £lO
FREAKS
MODEL 54.
High-power Bolt-action Repeating Rifle.
24in. Round Tapered Barrel, Lightning-
fast Speed Lock, Lyman Gold Bead Front Sight
and Lyman No. 48W Receiver Sight. In Calibres
.22 Hornet, .220 Swift and .2 70 . .
Winchester. £l9/10/-
Now is the one and only
opportunity to purchase one
of your favourite rifles.
Firearms listed below are at
present available, but rapidly
selling. To avoid disappoint-
ment, Order Immediately.
all WlN Cff£3Ttßrifles
Rim and Centre Fire except
Model 63 are specially con-
structed to handle both Regular
and Super-speed Cartridges.
COWLES
& DUNN
GUNSMITHS AND FISHING TACKLE
SPECIALISTS,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
Telegraphic Address: CODUN, SYDNEY.
Fishing Tackle Catalogue,
POST FREE .
£*
MODEL 61.
.22-cal. Slide Arm Hammerless Repeating
Rifle, 24in. Round Tapered Barrel.
Magazine Capacity, 20 Short, 16 Long or 14 Long-
rifle. Lyman Gold Bead Front Sight _ .
and Elevating Rear Sight. x7/Z/b
FREAKS
MODEL 65.
Lever-action 8-shot Repeating Rifle. .32-
cal., 22in. Round Tapered Barrel, Lyman
Gold Bead Ramp-base Front Sight, Rocky Mountain
Adjustable Rear Sight, Pistol-grip
Stock. £lO/10/-
FREAKS
MODEL 42.
.4 1 0-bore Hammerless Slide-action Repeat-
ing Shot Gun, 26in. Proof-steel Barrel,
Chambered for 3in. Cartridges. . .
Pistol-grip Stock. Xlo/10/"
FREAKS
Hammerless Slide-action R<
Gun, in 12G. and 20G. * un-.-.»v>rvv.
Barrel, Six-shot, Pistol-grip Stock. £l3/10/
Repeating Shot
° Full-choke
SSiSlsalkiLuiiig
MODEL 97.
Slide-action Hammer Repeating Shot Gun.
12-gauge,' 30in. Full-choke Barrel,
Chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Five-shot
Magazine, Pistol-grip Stock.
£l2
*
M
MODEL 69.
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeating Rifle, 25in. Round Tapered Barrel,
Metal Bead Ramp-base Front Sight. Supplied with Two 5-shot
Magazines, one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle Cartridges.
With Sporting Elevating Rear Sight 85/-
With Adjustable Peep Rear Sight 90/-
FREAKS
MODEL 69.
As above, equipped with Lyman No. 422 Expert
Four-power Telescopic Sight and Sporting Rear
Sight
£B/10/-
m
MODEL 63.
The Speed King,” .22-cal. Automatic Rifle. 23in.
Round Tapered Barrel, Lyman Gold Bead Front Sight
and Adjustable Rear Sight, with Sliding Elevator, 1 0-shot Magazine, Pistol-
grip Stock. Chambered for Long-rifle Super-speed or Super .
X Cartridges only. £9/10/"
FREAKS
MODEL 37.
The New Winchester “Steelbilt” Single-barrel
hammerless Shot Gun. 12-gauge, 30in. Full-choke
Chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Automatic Ejector, Pistol-grip
Stock.
Semi-
Barrel.
65/-
FREAKS
MODEL 21.
Dcmblc-tmnrd Hammerless Shot Gun, 1 2 Gauge Standard Grade. 30in.
, , . Winchester Proof-steel Barrels. Chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Left
choke, Right Modified. Walnut Pistol-grip Stock. Automatic Safety. £22/10/-
MMCHISTSH
No. 69121.—Five-cell Standard Focussing
light. Full Chrome finish. Range, 1500 ft.
Complete with Batteries.
Search-
-25/-
FREAKS
No. 6811.—Two-cell Focussing
Chrome finish. Range, 300 ft.
with Batteries.
Flashlight.
Complete
Full
9/9
HEADLIGHT LANTERN
FOR NIGHT SHOOTING
FREAKS
No. 7924.—Twin Service
light-Lantern, 3-cell, 350 ft.
range.
No. 79124.—5-cell, 1500 ft.
range.
Head-
-23/-
35/-
I»\vf
UUh
■as
No. 4921.—Three-cell Standard Focussing
light. Nickel finish. Range, 850 ft.
Complete with Batteries.
Search-
-11/6
VUS3H3N/M.
No. 6821.—Three-cell Focussing Flashlight.
Chrome finish. Range,' 350 ft. Complete
with Batteries.
Full
12/6


'
z.-.r-
griTj!
M
\h
to*?
o\\t
t l '®
GP
*o
€u-0
, 9 S=.
Qt c
\9^>
e,a^ s
\tf«
rg£
hOVi
Otc
o^Y
«va:‘
E>^
\M4°
Ma^ e
\#°
**£,*> ** **** V ?« s
MJ-®' _„n. ..rt.4 V' as .’.VM, OI
0« f
-«=ss.s ; V ->>— 0? i
?«** *«*£* ot
0?
*» r;*^*v*«nr*
*\o^
\QN
v\ ■
e^ s
V !WS
«01> ct
OT
RtN
»«t»
>Cf*
SS
fcoO 115
r T\O
Sl* v '
■ft Of
Rifi® 15
JOO-
a?i er .
'
\\ft a 0
sot"
Ge* 1
--
m
S 3
A.M.P.
Bonus Distribution
£5,100,000
THIS week the Society distributes £5,100,000 in
Reversionary Bonuses, on all participating policies
in force on 31 st December last. These bonuses
represent a cash value of £3,044,141. They mean that
participating members in the ordinary department are
receiving back, in cash or its equivalent reversionary
bonuses, an average of 44.4 per cent, of the premiums
they paid last year.
Last year was a difficult year for most people, yet the Society
issued new policies to the amount of £24,000,000, bringing
the number of policies to 1,150,582, and the sums assured in
force at 31st December to £241,541,761, both figures being
records in the history of the Society.
The A.M.P. srows from strength to strength. Every member s policy
is backed bv £i 0 1,869,000 of conservatively valued assets. Wise is the
member who adds to his policies, and so uses the Society s strength
to build up bis own assets. In the past five years the Society has paid
out £31,859,941 to its policy holders; more than six millions a year.
A.M.P. policies (1) provide for wives and families in the eventt of
breadwinners’ deaths, (2) provide incomes for old age, ( 3 ) educate
children (4 ) oay off mortages, (5) make secure the home. (6)
men and women peace of mind, all at the lowest possible cost consistent
with impregnable security.
An experienced adviser will gladly be sent to discuss the benefits
of A.M P. membership with any citizen living within *
tance of any A.M.P. office. Send word to-day that YOU wan,
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?,
Griffith, Hasscl and' Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Anv-r.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 48:1
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (M’elb.). —Advt.
-5= * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, ILSc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing- Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
❖ ; i : : 'f
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball "and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
Mining Notice.
GOLD MlNlNG—Syndicate being formed to
take up wonderfully-rich large gold reef, big
area. High returns assured to original mem-
bers Particulars from GOLD INVESI-
MENTS, LTD.,’I33 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Globe Trust & Finance
Co., Ltd.
By an oversight the following informa-
tion was omitted from the advertised
prospectus of Globe Trust and Finance
Co., Ltd., appearing on page 19 of this
issue of The Bulletin:
Apart from the usual current
trade contracts, the only contract
in existence affecting the Company
is an Equitable Mortgage dated 25th
January, 1933, between the Globe
Trust & Finance Company, Limited,
and the National Bank of Austral-
asia, Limited.
The full-page prospectus having already
been printed, it was too late to amend
the original advertisement.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUV lON IN PRICES!
S 3 ' mmm
m
m
Kxtensivi
used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. • • 12,000
Consumption .
gallons per hour
-1-gallon Benzine or
"Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Vi Spring Street, Sydney.
established itself as the Singapore Hume
Pipe Co. in 1923. Operations were ex-
tended to Hong Kong in 1933, when the
name was changed to the present title —
the co. at the same time bought Hume
Steel’s interest in a pipe-making plant
previously operated on joint account.
Results in China so far haven’t come up
to expectations, though recently trends
have been more promising. The Hong
Kong factory has orders for 30 miles 01.
steel pipes ; political trouble has restricted
further sales expansion.
It is the smallest and the most pros-
perous of the Hume cos. In its first
decade shareholders were handed an
average of 9.5 p.c. ; £19,168 of intan-
gibles was eliminated from the accounts,
and over £lB,OOO of genuine reserves ac-
cumulated. Depression affected the
figures severely until last term, when
rubber and tin, after a long period in
the doldrums, showed marked improve-
ment.
“An important sewerage scheme has
been decided upon at Singapore, in con-
nection with which orders of consider-
able value have already been received.”
The year’s net profit moved up £12,825,
reaching £14,435, the best showing to
date —28.8 p.c. on capital, as against
3.2, 8,6, 4.2, 27.5 and 30.1 p.c. back to
1930. A new manufacturing process was
partly responsible. The div. was kept
down to 5 p.c., and £11,935 was carried
to reserves, including £3069 to exchange
fluctuation account (£20,790, showing an
unexplained rise of £3281 during the
year), created in 1935 through apprecia-
tion of the co.’s sterling assets. Accounts
are now shown in Australian currency.
Further important orders for concrete
and steel pipes are anticipated in Malaya.
With the new “Humeogeneous” plant
now fully established, profit-earning
capacity in the F.M.S. is declared to have
never been greater —not even “in the
prosperous years of 1928-30.” The cur-
rent term has opened very promisingly.
Paid capital is £50,000 in £1 ords.
Hume Pipe (Aust.) appears as creditor
for £32,092 ; other liabilities figure at
£12,402. The total debt (£44,494) was
up £5790. Freeholds and leaseholds are
unchanged at £18,722, while plant at
£73,104 is up £8424. Stocks (£19,158)
are down £10,707. Debtors (£26,175)
rose £19,121. Cash, etc. (£7985), is £7578
heavier.
The scrip is around par.
Globe Trust and Finance Co i} Ltd.
This Sydney moneylending and finance
business is looking for more capi-
tal. With an ord. share-register total ol
£10,455, it has been showing improving
profits since financial recovery became
evident; earnings were 8.9 p.c. on capi-
tal for the year to June 30, 1934, 9.5 p.c.
next year and 11 p.c. lor the six months
to Dec. 31 last. Dividends in respect
of those periods have been 6£, 7 and 8
p.c. p.a.
The results suggest keen management,
especially as the co. has the assistance
of only small reserves —£4386, against
which stands £2133 of goodwill. Debtors
and loans appear at £22,051 gross, and
sundry creditors at £9757.
The public is now offered 20,000 7 p.c.
cumulative prefs., which will have prior-
ity as to capital but no participating
rights. It is intended to extend the co.’s
o_wn business —an “enormously-increased
demand for funds” is spoken of—to
reduce the debt and to absorb another
finance concern.
Excluding goodwill, but including con-
tingency, etc., reserve, net tangible back-
ing for the pref. issue would be 325. 7d.
per share if fully subscribed. The back-
ing is somewhat less than is usually
looked for with, a pref. share, but if
the management can continue on what
appears to have been a safe and profit-
able course in the past there should be
little worry on that score. Securities are
said to have been carefully selected, and
the co. claims to be fully protected.
The only material contract mentioned
in the prospectus is an equitable mort-
gage held by the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia in respect of the overdraft,
included with sundry creditors above.
Sargents (Newcastle), Ltd.
The business and certain assets of
Ways, Ltd., caterers, Newcastle, are to
be taken over by this c 0.,, which also
gets the right to use “Sargents” as part
of its name, and permission (for ten
years) to sell Sargents’ products in N. S.
Wales north of Wyong. Sargents, Ltd.,
Sydney, is to be given 6000 fully-paids
for these concessions ; Ways, Ltd., takes
£10,500 in cash.
The public is now offered 44,000 £1
shares in Sargents (Newcastle), Ltd., at
par. Trading results of Ways are not
disclosed, but the prospectus talks of a
dividend in the new co.’s first year. The
cash issue, it is anticipated, will be called
to only 155., providing £33,000; cash
consideration to Ways will leave £22,500,
out of which £12,500 is to be spent on
improving plant and fittings, leaving
£lO,OOO for working capital, preliminary
exes,, etc.
Five leasehold shops in Newcastle and
two in Hamilton will be taken over im-
mediately, and others will be opened
later on.
A fall from £66,692 in 1934 to £47,336
in 1935 in profit, together with a smaller
dividend, explains to some extent the
recent market weakness in Boulder Per-
severance. Although Perseverance is one
of the smallest in area on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, being only 24 acres in
extent, it has already produced gold
worth over £9,000,000 sterling and paid
£4,000,000 in dividends. Irregular en-
richments in the low-grade ore-bodies
have made it in the past difficult even
roughly to estimate the tonnage or value
of the payable ore reserves, but the en-
hanced price of gold and reduced treat-
ment costs enable the co. to mine and
mill profitably large bodies of stuff which
were previously regarded as valueless.
Tabloid of Sons of Gwalia’s operations
in 1935, together with those in 1934 in
parentheses: Value of gold won £253,121
sterling (£298,687), expenditure £156,747
(£166,841) ; extraction, 93.1 p.c. (92.47
p.c.). Working costs, Australian currency,
were 30s. 3kl. (245. 4.3 d.) a ton, the rise
being due to industrial trouble, skip de-
railment, machinery breakage, increased
cost, of wood fuel and uniform 44-hour
week for both surface and underground
workers. Out of the year’s profit share-
holders collected .£73,125, equal to 4s.
6d. a share. Assets totalling £372,333
include bullion in transit £50,968, cash
£15,804, investments £104,429, stores
£24,301 and property, machinery, plant,
etc., £172,305. Paid-up capital is
£162,500. Ore reserves are now esti-
mated at over five years’ supply of 295.
grade, based on gold at 85s. an ounce.
Last year they were said to be equal to
four years’ supply, the grade 30s.
* * * *
Directors of Leonora Central, after a
visit to the co.’s new interest at Widgie-
mooltha (W.A.), state that development
work has recommenced under Morton
Webber. The main shaft will be sunk to
250 ft., and is expected to be in values for
some distance. Drilling will then be
undertaken. Sulphide ore exposed at
the 120 ft. level averages over lOdwt. Mr.
Webber has already spent £12,000 on
the property. The co. reports that enough
cash is in the till to carry out new develop-
ment work. Directors seem optimistic
that London will sponsor a big float
before the end of the year. The market
is not impressed.
;j: * *
“O.B.” is interested in world gold-
production and gold-hoarding:
National City Bank of New York in its May
review tips that the world’s gold yield in 1936
will be worth £240,000,000 sterling, compared
with £213,000,000 in 1935 and £81,000,000 m
1929. Before the depression India and other
Asiatic countries which had been traditional
gold-hoarders absorbed, together with industries
and arts, practically two-thirds of the annual
output of gold, leaving only a third available
for monetary reserves. This situation has
changed radically, says the bank. India and
China have become sellers of gold. India alone
has shipped in the last 4-L years almost
£180,000,000 worth. Together with sales by
China and British Malaya, the metal released
from Asiatic hoards must have reached
over £200,000,000. A substantial part of the
newly-won supply is being absorbed in private
hoards in European countries. Allowing for
consumption in the arts and for the changes
in the monetary stocks of 50 central banks,
which increased in 1935 by some £140,000,000,
there is a balance unaccounted for approxi-
mating £100,000,000. This, the bank thinks,
must have been added to existing hoards,
which probably run into several thousand
millions of dollars. It is possible, in its
opinion, that the leading topic on the agenda
of the next international monetary conference
will be “How to Control the Gold Output.”
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.R.T.: Black sand is composed of a
number of minerals, mostly worthless. Impos-
sible to estimate value without assay. Send
lib. sample to N.S.W. Dept, of Mines for
free examination and valuation... .W.J.:
Queensland probate duty is payable on the
portion, of the estate located in that State.


GOOD INCOME WITH SAFETY OF CAPITAL
Abridged Prospectus
of
GLOBE TRUST AND FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of N.S.W., 1899-1918).
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
ISSUE OF
20,000 7 p.c. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each at Par.
Payable 2 6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance
in calls of not more than 2 6 per share at intervals of not less than one month; or
the shares may be paid for in full on application.
DIRECTORS:
Arthur H. Chartres, Remington House, Liverpool Street, Alexander M. Stewart, 72 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY (Chairman). SYDNEY.
Douglas G. Hayman, 72 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (Managing).
BANKERS:
National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., 342 George Street,
SYDNEY.
AUDITORS:
Noble, Douglass & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust. ),
18 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
SOLICITORS
R. D. Mulray & Co., 115 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Manning, Riddle & Co., Commonwealth Bank Building,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SECRETARY:
Gordon H, Goddard, Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
12 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The growing volume in the Company’s business of financing approved securities has made
necessary the issue of further capital. The soundness of the Company’s policy is reflected
in the steady progress shown in the yearly figures.
Profits earned and dividends paid on the Issued Capital (all in Ordinary Shares) since the
commencement of the business as a Limited Company are shown hereunder:
Year ended 30th June, 1934
Year ended 30th June, 1935
Half-year ended 31st December, 1935
Profit Rate
After Allowance
for Reserves . Dividends Paid.
8.9 p.c. 6£ p.c. p.a.
9.5 p.c. 7 p.c. p.a.
11.0 p.c. Interim at 8 p.c. p.a.
Upon full subscription and before investment of this issue the assets of the Company
will represent a backing of approximately 30/- per £1 Preference Share. The shares
are cumulative, and preferential both as to dividend and capital. The preference dividends
will be paid half-yearly.
Early application is advisable.
Application Forms and Prospectus available from the
SOLE BROKERS:
HILSON THOMPSON, CO., Manufacturers House, 12-14 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 8W7042 .


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gamma”: We were splitting posts in
the Gippsland hills and, forgetting the
wedges, we were stumped, until Joe got his
great idea. He bored a hole with a half-
inch auger into the log, exactly a foot,
caught a few spiders and placed them in
it. Then we sat down to watch. Along
came a wasp, and, scenting the spiders,
cocked his eye down the mine and dived
after them. No sooner was he in the hole
than Joe drove in an llin. stick, leaving
an inch for the wasp. Suddenly the log
burst with a report, clean in half. Yes—
that wasp had stung the stick, which had
swelled. We never used wedges again.
* * * *
“Towser”: When men are saddling up
at our yards there may be half a dozen
dogs there, some looking bored and all
waiting for something to do. Then any
man can get on any horse and race
away with as much clatter and row as he
likes and it won’t disturb them. One or
two might lift one ear each and blink.
But let one man mount anything touchy
and every dog is on the hair-trigger of
action. If that horse starts to deal a
hand, however mild it may be, every yap-
ping tyke there is immediately capers
about the rooter’s heels, playing hell’s
delight and offering, in canine language,
ten to one on the horse as against no
takers about the rider.
“Bufo”: Seaweeds do not move of
their own volition, and when a strikingly
variegated clump began to progress
slowly across the sandy floor of a rock
pool we decided to investigate. The
motive power was provided by a curious
little crab, and the seaweed grew from
its back and limbs. It did not grow
there accidentally—the creature had
picked every strand of it, and attached
them to special hooked hairs, where they
continued to grow. If they grow too
long, the crab prunes them back with its
nippers to manageable proportions. The
covering is a safety disguise, camouflag-
ing it from predatory fish, as the crab
well understands. Remove one to a pool
whose growths and colorings are dif-
ferent from the mantle it is wearing, and
it will promptly set about replacing it
by one adapted to the new surroundings.
Australia has several kinds of these
seaweed crabs — Naxias, as scientific folk
term them.
• * * » s t
“Groper”: Consider the sea anemone
which grows on tide-swept beach reefs
along the s.-w, coast of Westralia. About
the size of a two-shilling piece and
equipped with a dozen or so rayed ten-
tacles which give it the appearance of a
flower, it roots itself in crevices where
the water swirls continually. Touched
with a fingertip it recedes into itself with
a strong suction, disappearing into the
tiny patch of sand which always sur-
“All you gents, take consommy ?”
rounds it. But the most curious part is
that, although well equipped with ten-
tacles, it also covers its outer surface with
a multitude of shell fragments, which it
keeps upright on edge. For what purpose
—as camouflage against foraging gulls?
Its rubber-like toughness is sufficient
protection against any bird appetite.
Actually the shell fragments are riffles,
used just as the alluvial digger uses them
in his cradle or sluice, only that, instead
of intercepting particles of metal, the
anemone catches particles of food. Thus
Nature knew all about riffles long before
man invented them. But by what intelli-
gence does she teach each individual
anemone to catch shell fragments as they
swirl past and dress itself with them,
holding them upright in position by
means of tiny sucker holes, with which
the rubbery skin is covered?
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: In a ketch after a
heavy gale off Flinders Island (Bass
Strait) we passed several two-pronged,
black loglike objects on the water.
“Logs be damned!” said the skipper;
“haven’t you seen a seal asleep?” It was
news to me that seals slept anywhere
else but near rocks.
“James K.”: We felled a stringy-bark
gum, cut off its limbs and left the trunk
lying in an open paddock. Returning
weeks later, we found it swarming with
spiders of all sizes up to the width of
my palm. The same day we burnt off in
the paddock and right up to the log
without its being actually touched by the
flames. On examining it we discovered
that the spiders had skipped. They
weren’t under the log or in the trunk
itself nor was there the faintest trace of
holes in the ground below it.
* * *
“Fritz”: New to me that a dachshund
can run down a rabbit and catch him by
speed of foot (B. 10/6/’36). But the
dach. has a splendid nose, and in Ger-
many is used to chase hares, though he
takes his time like his cousin the English
bassett hound. The German sportsman
also uses the persistent beast for pointing
and retrieving, and many a hunter return-
ing home at even with his bag full of
ground larks, thrushes and other game
has to thank his intelligent pal with the
bandy legs.
.** ■ * *
“Little”: The Vic. Mallee is a dry place
orright, but be cripes it can rain here
sometimes! In the last downoour we
had, I’m at the back door watchin’ it
fall in sheets. There’s an old barrel
standin’ in the yard, an’ it’s full up an’
runnin’ over. “That’s nothin’?” But the
barrel ’ad no bottom to it.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A Sydney dog recently
got into the papers on account of driv-
ing off an armed bandit, and the more
unbalanced school of dog-admirers is now
busy in attempting to prove that his was
an example of an inherent love, among
dogs, of law and order. Almost simul-
taneously, two dogs at Proserpine (N.Q.)
provided a flagrant in-
stance to the contrary by
committing extensive rav-
ages on the person and
uniform of a constable en-
gaged in arresting their
proprietor. Loyalty apart,
T consider that the funda-
mental nature of the
brainier sort of dog is
inherently criminal. Dillinger, for
example, has a passion for boiled lollies.
His personal stock of them is kept in
a saucer on a stool in the verandah,
When he wants one, he stands beside it
and whimpers until one is handed out.
He would never dream of stealing one.
Yet, when with me in the local store
yesterday, he sneaked behind the counter
and guzzled at least a pound from an
open tin.
* * * *
“Pine Spragg”: I wondered why my
rabbits were all developing flat heads,
and was puzzled till I read “Quartza’s”
par. (B. 13/5/’36). Further study con-
vinces me that, if he is right about using
the heads for signalling, they use their
tails for digging burrows and their ears to
carry out the dirt, but still I cannot see
any alteration in their age-old signallers
the hind feet. Let “Quartza” watch a
buck or doe fighting and belting a cat
and he will have no doubts how hard
they can thump.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A queer story filtered in
to Darwin with a recent batch of refitting
luggers. Four Japanese divers and
tenders held a party and, as the grog-
tide rose, decided to have some fun with
a mild little Malay sailor. One threw
a pig’s trotter into his rice as it was
cooking. A good Mohammedan, he
went to throw out the defiled food and
to cleanse the pot in the ceremonial way.
Another Jap kicked him so that he fell
with his face in the rice. All laughed.
The Malay said nothing, but drew from
his sarong four grains of rice, looked
fixedly at his tormentors, said something
in an undertone, and laid the grains in
a row on the deck. Then he went off
in a dinghy to another lugger, refusing
to return. Within a month all four Jap-
anese were dead of paralysis or drown-
ing, the trotter-thrower first. The little
Malay was a Keay, a sort of hereditary
wizard. I’ve heard other queer tales of
the gentry.
* * *
“X-Ray Eyes”: They were both keen
bushmen, famed for their eyesight, but
bitter rivals. Standing on a hill about
two miles from the township one said:
“Do you see that ant on the, step of the
pub?” The other nodded and came bacfc
with “Can you see that fly on the window
of Jones’s store?” “ ’Course ; and can
you see that bee on the telephone wires
outside the post office?” “Yairs ; and
I can hear it buzzin’.”
s|« * * *
“Adder”: I watched a gecko on
the ceiling stalking a moth. That
scaleless lizard got within three inches
of it; then he sprang, picked up the
moth and landed back on the ceiling
again to eat his meal. Just as well Sir
Isaac Newton never saw a gecko in
action.
* -( # *
“Spitchcock”: Moreton Bay (Q.), prac-
tically marking the terminus of the
Queensland Barrier Reef system, often
entertains ocean visitors who have wan-
dered from the waters of the North. One
of these, the first of its kind to be caught
in the Bay within the memory of the old-
est fish liar, was the black-and-white tes-
sellated eel, an habitue of the Barrier.
This spotted curiosity runs to six feet in
length, and is so bad-tempered that it
defends itself when attacked. As it boasts
rows of teeth on its palate as well as on
the jaws it is a catch to be handled with
care.
# $ ❖ *
“James Pigg”: Sydney papers have
been commiserating with a man who,
trying to pull a fox from its burrow,
was grabbed so savagely that the beast
had to be killed before
his hand could be re-
leased. We lift the
weight of flatling years.
A hundred years ago
one Jem the Gipsy
gave highly popular
performances at New-
market when Fashion
and the Fancy were
gathered there for the
races. For a considera-
tion he would draw a
fox or a badger from a
specially - constructed
burrow with his .teeth,
his hands having first
been tied behind him.
He was once backed to
light a bull - terrier
under the same condi-
tions, but the Sheffield
poodle declined the
engagement. To avoid
monotony Jem had other accomplish-
ments. He once won a noble sportsman
a big sum by eating a cabbage, a pound
of salt and the cabbage net right off
the reel. There were giants in those
days.
* * * *
“Betul”: Most of the Territory abos.
I’ve had dealings with don’t bother to
roast the witchetty grub. Binghi also
prefers the honey-ant alive; when his
digging is rewarded with a supply of the
grapelike store-ants, he immediately con-
sumes his catch, sucking the syrup from
their bodies and throwing the skins away.
*** - *
“Yarragundry”: “Bull-ant Bill” (B.
20/5/’36) slips when he lists two crossed
sticks over the billy for deletion from
bush superstitions. They are placed not
to make the tea-leaves sink, but to
prevent the water being smoked on an
open fire.
jj: * ❖ *
“Awani”: Let me get at some of these
“rain signs” with my Kelly! There are
the whirly-wind that, going in a certain
direction, is “always a sign of rain” ; the
new moon on its end and the new moon
“coming in in the morning” —two infal-
lible signs ; the springs that have been
dry for months and are running again,
though no rain has fallen; the circle
around the moon at night, the number
of stars within the circle being the number
of days the rain is distant. Also, when the
house flies are unusally sticky and when
black cockatoos are sighted flying north-
ward the heavens are sure to open. And
when you see ant’s climbing trees, posts
and walls with their eggs in their mouths
it’s time to look out for a flood. We ve
had all those and more, and we’re having
a worse drought in our part of n.-w.
N.S.W. than in 1902.
THE EXILES FROM THE BUSH.
Any Sunday night at Central, when the country
trains pull out
With a rush of steam and sirens hooting
loud,
You can see them fraternising with the groups
that stand about,
You can recognise their faces in the crowd.
They arrive with platform tickets, and you'll
find no bag of theirs
In the luggage which the busy porters push,
But you’ll see a wistful aspect, if you take
them unawares,
On the faces of the exiles from the bush.
Some are temporary exiles, left with nothing
much to do;
“Yes —on holidays—l’m down for seven
weeks”;
And some are homesick youngsters, with the
ruddy country hue
Not as yet entirely vanished from their
cheeks.
Then there’s old Sam Blunt from Bluegum—
fourteen years he’s been away,
But quite sprightly still, and looking very
hale;
He has left his wife and daughters in their
home at Double Bay
To come and see “who’s going on the Mail.”
Very few have any notion as to who’ll be on
the train,
It’s a gamble on the first familiar face;
But it seems there’s always someone who is
going back again,
And they’re glad they canie to Central “just
in case.”
What a buzz of conversa-
tion ! What a joy-
ous flood of news!
“Did you hear about the
lire at Wallabar?”
“Yes, it’s true that May
got married, and
old Bill is off the
booze,
And the Campbell boys
have smashed an-
other car.”
“And of course you know
that Harry has sold
out to Uncle Jack,
And has bought
Maloney’s place on
Sandy Creek.”
“Oh, the town has gone to
pieces—are you ever
coming back?
Funny thing, your name
came up the other
week—
You remember Ginger
Martin, he was
always pretty queer,
And his daughter with
that funny dimple?
Well,
She’s become a talkie
actress, makes a
thousand quid a
year,
And they say she’s
going Blast it,
there’s the bell!”
So the trains pull out and
scatter, to the north
and south and west,
And their dying thunder
fades, along the line,
While the exiles catch a whisper as ttiey stroll
out with the rest
Of the wind amid the she-oak and the pine.
And they wonder, as the city claims their slow,
reluctant feet,
And the neons flash weird signals from the
sky,
If the river runs as smoothly past the bridge
at The Retreat,
If the hills are still as blue at High-and-Dry?
N.S.W.
ABIE.


“Saddle-flap”: I watched a smith in a
western N.S.W. town sit a fellow on the
anvil and haul out a molar. His remu-
neration was a beer. I asked him how he
liked pulling teeth. “Orright,” he said,
“but I’d sooner pull ’em in winter than in
summer. You see, in winter the patient
gets such a shock at sittin’ on the cold
anvil that he doesn’t feel the tooth
cornin’ out.”
* t- * *
“Larrakeah”: During a sustained
southerly blow that lasted over a week
we were unable to get out to the fish-
trap we had set. When the gale abated
and we lifted our trap it contained six
bream, a few rock fish and a four-pound
wirrah. The bream were badly muti-
lated, some being minus tails, while
others had great strips of flesh torn
from their hindquarters. The wirrah
was the culprit; imprisoned 20ft. below
the surface without means of satisfying
his voracious appetite he had commenced
to attack his fellow-captives, only their
speed at the turns of their limited prison
space saving them from the jaws of the
hungriest and most useless thing in the
sea.
■l' ❖ * *
“Jardin des Choux”: Victoria is re-
sponsible for the latest eagle yarn. One
of the fowls was seen chasing a
kangaroo and knocking blazes out of it
at the same time. Its technique was to
fasten on the ’roo’s head and beat it with
its powerful wings. When the bird was
chased off the marsupial was dead, with
its ears torn off and the body beaten to a
pulp, though it was a fair size, weighing
over 601 b. In Asia the hawkers use eagles
to catch gazelles. Worth noting that the
birds work in the same way as the Vic-
torian fowl, attacking the quarry's head
and beating it with their wings until the
hunters and their hounds come up.
«j» $
“Golden Mile”: The miners’ wives
who light their fires with a piece of frac-
teur (vide a recent B.) need to ration
themselves very rigidly. Dynamite is like
a sleeping tiger. And it can kill without
exploding. In the early days of the
Hannan’s Reward, Kalgoorlie, a case
caught fire on the bottom level. No one
was burnt, but the fumes followed the
six men below as they hurriedly climbed
the ladders. All went home with nothing
but severe headaches, but within three
weeks they were all dead—-gassed.
Again, when the L. V. and B. Junc-
tion was a working proposition, two
miners got into the cage with an
open case of dynamite on the floor
between them. Passing the No. 1 level
one of them, it being a wet shaft, turned
his pipe upside down, as is a miners’
custom. A red coal fell out, found a
loose plug—and by the time the cage
stopped at the No. 6 all those men were
clothed in was their boots and their belts.
One lived just long enough to tell how it
had happened.
* * * *
“Dingo”: What Binghi has in mind
when he turns down a snake somebody
else has killed is not the possibility of
being poisoned internally by the venom
of a self-bitten viper; unlike some recent
Abohar controversialists, he knows better.
Practically all natives hold that good and
bad properties and illnesses, etc., can be
transmitted by touch, looking hard and,
above all, by eating. Consequently no
amount of cooking can prevent a snake
that died miserably from communicating
its feelings to the maw that engulfs it by
sympathetic means. On the same principle,
j t j s a i wavs safe to eat the liver fat of 1
“ diWd y s . saie «> eat tne liver-tat ot a
brave warrior, as there can be nothing
harmful in his make-up, while his cour-
age j s imparted to all participants in the
rpt . pm „ n :,.| r
ceremonial banquet.
“t dtn e ‘ *
J.K.D. : Sombreros are not the only
things Queensland’s back country has
borrowed from Hollywood Shirts of
, ~ . , . , ", u , ' , omits u
shrieking hues with checks that assault
the eyes, garish neckerchiefs and Mexican
“Help! Help!”
“See if you can keep yourself afloat till I land this one."
spurs (usually worn wrong) are becoming
more prevalent. Two-gallon hats are great
things to give a dog a drink out of—some
are capacious enough to water a horse
—though I’ve noticed that their wearers
seldom own dogs. I have tried the big
lid as headgear, and I don’t reckon that
its weight is compensated by the broad
leaf. When teams of U.S.A. and Cana-
dian cowboys visited us early in the year
I expected to see something out of the
way in Zane Grey appurtenances, but I
was disappointed. No hairy chapparajos
or holsters sagged from belts heavy with
brass cartridges. Those cowboys were the
quietest, decentest fellows you could hope
to meet. They wore ordinary felt hats
with low pork-pie crowns, workmanlike
leather chaps over faded blue dungarees
and usually white silk shirts. I walked
through Sydney streets with some of them
in their everyday rig, bar chaps, and so
quietly dressed were they that not a soul
gave them a second look. Incidentally,
the competitor with the biggest hat and
loudest outfit at the Showground hailed
from a crowded suburb within five miles
of Sydney G.P.O.
* * * *
“Yetne”: A London “Sphere”
(22/2/’36) writer, dilating on the dangers
of our dingo-infested land, paints a lurid
"I say, this beer's HOT.”
“Wait an I'll get yez a saucer.”
picture. Mentioning “Tauranga” Park,
Sydney, and showing a picture of dingoes
in captivity there, he says that they will
“yard sheep or kangaroos and, after
selecting the most succulent, allow the
remainder to depart.” And the lady
dingo is accused of the spider trick. She
entices the male domestic dog away, and,
when he has achieved his high destiny,
destroys him!
“Otranto”: “B. Farmer” (B. 27/5/’36)
seems to think that cattle do not usually
have blue tongues. A pure-bred light
Jersey has, as a rule, a blue-black tongue,
but sometimes a light or dark Jersey cross
has a tongue as blue as a bluebag. The
chow dog also has a blue tongue, but not
so blue as I have seen in crossbred cattle.
$ $ :J:
“Kerk”: This was the final item in an
order received at our store:
....and something for saw teats (cows).
if *
“Jim D.”: Talkin’ about the strength
of goannas reminds me of the time I
was carryin’ along the Darling. I had to
wait at the Cross Roads Inn for me mate
Bill, who was loadin’ at the next station.
After turnin’ the bullocks out and havin’
a snack, I strolled across to the pub. I
stayed there an hour or so, had an occa-
sional drink and played a few hands of
cards, when I thought I’d go and have a
look at the bullocks. As I gets out the
door I sees me wagon makin’ hell for
leather across the plain, but with no bul-
locks in it. Yairs —it was an outsize go.
right enough ; must’ve got tangled in the
chains when he was nosin’ round the
tucker-box. He made a beeline for a
giant river gum, and ’ad the wagon "alf-
way up when the chain snapped. I’d ’ave
thought I was seein’ things if it wasn’t
for the fact that I’d on’y ’ad about a
dozen drinks.
“Cooie Bird”: The kookaburra doesn’t
always knock a snake’s head against
some hard object in order to kill it. If
the wriggler is a small one, the laugher
merely cracks it' as does a dog when
dealing out stoush to a member of the
reptile family. When the dinner has no
kick left it is tossed into the air without
attention being given to the head, deftly
caught and bolted head-first. The same
treatment is given when the lunch is a
small lizard. The noise Jack kicks up
in taking the “crust” off a “hard-baked”
snail in knocking it against a dead tree
or a hollow log on a still morning or
evening can be heard half a mile away.
“Canopus”: The kookaburra may be
criticised as a settler’s clock, but at least
he never gives a false alarm on a moon-
lit night. Wet or fine you can bet it’s
long past cow time when he wakes up.
I’ve heard plenty of other fowls fooled
into blowing reveille from midnight
onwards.
“Menengai”: In my Gippsland days,
when the mate and I were picking up,
kookaburras would never go for the
giant worms that abound there. As soon
as a big log was moved down they would
come. Lizards, beetles and small worms
would go west at the toot, but the big
fellows were always left. We have taken
them out and put them on a bfanch or
stump not 19ft. from a Jack ; but he
would not have them.
“Tybite”: A Mornington Peninsula
(Vic.) poultry-farmer, troubled with rats
and mice, has a soft spot for a well-
conditioned kookaburra that has recently
taken to sitting on a fence near the feed-
shed, at dusk, with an eye to business
and supper. An unwary rodent takes one
step too many. There is a swoop, a
flurry of wings, a loud squeaking; and
the old bird is off with his prize.
* * * *
“Amity”: The great ray (B. 10/6/’36)
is not so harmless as “Del Norte” makes
out, and he will take a bait. Many
whoppers have been caught with hook
and line in Moreton Bay, some of them
probably exceeding in size the 2000-
pounder recently hooked by the Zane
Grey party. When hooked the ray has a
nasty habit of jumping clear of the water,
and has been known to land on fishing
craft. One species, fitted with claspers
on each side of the mouth, is not popular
with lugger crews and divers in N.Q.
waters. An anchor line or an airpipe
has an irresistible attraction fo%.the big
flatties, and these are sometimes enfolded
in the claspers and the lugger or diver
taken for a ride. Once started the brute
seems too scared to let go. With the
lugger no great harm is done. The joke
may spell death from a broken airpipe
for the diver.
* :J: * *
“Groper”: As “Claremont” (B.
6/5/’36) says, stray olive-trees are
to be found in s.-w. W.A., par-
ticularly in the Murray district. But
these are black-foliaged, densely-bushy
shrubs which may attain to a height of
30ft., with a 20ft. spread. The ripe fruit
is dead black, the size of a small damson,
with an unpleasantly bitter taste not in
the least like imported pickled olives.
Nor does it show any sign of oil when
squeezed. Yet southern Europeans de-
clare it an olive. Possibly we need educa-
tion on the subject of olive-eating.
WAGGA RUGS.
Dear Mr. Editor, —Of all those writing
The pars, you publish in The Bulleteen —
Those blokes, I mean, who, like myself, love
skiting
Of all the bush is, was or might have been —
How few have penned a line about the pleasure
Derived on winter nights from lying snug
Beneath that shabby, seasonable treasure,
That welcome friend, a good old Wagga rug!
In bygone years at various times I tested
All sorts of Waggas, and it’s only fair
To say the best ’neath which I ever rested
Were wool packs which had seen a bit of
wear.
Though full of yolk and somewhat highly
scented
From second pieces, belly wools and locks,
I slept beneath them, cosy and contented
As those with bedclothes far more orthodox.
With use and yolk most packs get soft and
sticky
And stay exactly where they’re put, what’s
more;
Unlike an eiderdown, that cover tricky,
Which, when you wake, is often on the floor.
I’ve known those blokes who reckon they
inherit
“Refinement” deprecate them with a shrug,
But later on discover lots of merit
In chilly months about a Wagga rug.
On wild, wet nights when bed is most engaging,
You lie there smoking, half asleep and
warm,
While listening to the shrieks and futile raging
Of wind and rain, the roar of winter storm.
You put aside your pipe at last and, yawning,
Stretch out and give your nap a hitch and
tug;
You know you’re jake until to-morrow’s dawn-
ing
Beneath your dingy, homely Wagga rug.
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


ms
LYS
Si
PROOf,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
> * w
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers Argents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head vtfice: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney
HE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Murrawong”: Total entries at this
year’s show showed an increase in num-
bers, merinos, Romney Marsh and South-
downs being chiefly responsible for the
advance. It was refreshing to note the
appearance of several new studs which
had not previously exhibited in Sydney,
and the sheep they brought forward
augur well for the future of the industry.
Nevertheless, it is to be regretted that
so many of the well-known studs were not
represented. Admittedly it costs a lot,
directly and indirectly, to send valuable
animals to Sydney, in addition to the risk
of injury to animals in transit. For that
reason, the show owes much more than
is apparent to such merino studs as Bun-
demar, Merryville, Raby, Mungadal,
Dalkeith and Egelabra.
The Stonehaven Cup was won by an
outsider making his first appearance in
Sydney. It is awarded for the best ex-
hibit of five merinos, three rams and two
ewes, bred by exhibitor, to be selected
from the general classes, and to be judged
for uniformity of breeding and trueness
to type. S. T. Starr, of Eshcol, Gunning,
won with a team of medium wools, the
majority of which had been shown in
novice classes and had thus escaped
notice ; but the award was thoroughly
deserved. The breeder has worked quietly
and perseveringly in the background for
years, building up a strong constitutioned
sheep and gradually improving the cover-
ing by skilful blending of blood until
the ideal was reached.
It is evident that breeders now have a
better idea of what constitutes a super-
fine merino type than was the case in
the past, judging by the small proportion
rejected by the classer. In Sydney the
judge is not fettered by the hard-and-fast
rules that govern this class in some
centres, and, while pronounced uneven-
ness in the fleece would not be tolerated,
so long as the bulk of the fleece is 74’s
it is quite eligible. In this and in the
fine-wool section there was evidence of a
fair amount of “tail.” The ewes were
particularly good. Taking them all
round, the rams were not quite on the
same level.
Merryville stud, which once was
synonymous with superfine wool, ex-
hibited and was a prize-winner in every
section from superfine to strong ; in fact,
the strong-wool championship was won
by a Merryville ram.
The medium wools brought out some
splendid sheep, and this section eventually
provided the grand champion ram and
ewe and reserve gr. ch. ram.
The Dalkeith gr. ch. ram is a massive
animal with a splendid front and head
and a fleece of beautiful color and tex-
ture. G. H. Bowhay is to be congratu-
lated on his gr. ch. ewe, a big-framed
stylish ewe, one of the best ever seen in
Sydney and a true exponent of that
Buckinbah specialty—evenness.
In the strong wools the same feature
was noted as in the fine wools namely,
that the rams were not up to the quality
of the ewes.
One point that seems to be regarded
more leniently to-day is the occurrence
of black spots on the muzzles. Some
time ago a spotted ram would not have
had a look in, but neither breeders nor
judges seem to regard the blemish as
serious nowadays.
The novice section attracted some of
the best exhibits it has ever obtained, and
S. T. Starr’s Eshcol stud gained the bulk
of awards and championships. The small-
graziers’ section was poorly represented,
there being only two exhibitors, showing
sheep of such contrasting types as to
annul interest in it.
The chief merino awards went to
Mungadal, Merryville, Dalkeith, Buckin-
bah, . Bundemar, Eshcol, Windbri and
Egelabra.
Corriedales suffered by the absence of
two well-known exhibitors, T. B. Mac-
farlane and J. F. Guthrie, but the Gun-
dowringa sheep, which gained three out
of four grand championships and the
majority of the prizes for C. E. and H. F,.
“Many rabbits about 'ere, mate?"
Prell, were an exceptionally good lot.
Although Corriedales as a whole were
more even than previously, there was still
considerable variation ; everything from
44’s to 58’s was to be seen. Some fleeces
were inclined to be mushy, and handled
badly ; nevertheless, Corriedales continue
to hold pride of place among the
stronger-woolled breeds.
Lincolns, English Leicesters and Pol-
warths were not represented. A pity ;
those breeds appear regularly in Mel-
bourne. Parafield stud showed the only
Ryelands, and although the lack of com-
petition is to regretted it is doubtful
whether anything could be found in the
State to approach them in quality. There
is a great future ahead of this breed,
which is unsurpassed for mutton
qualities, and excels among the Downs
breeds for its size and covering.
Chatsbury and Gamboola fought it out
for the Romney awards, with the advan-
tage slightly in favor of the former.
Border Leicesters were widely repre-
sented,- and another sensation was
occasioned by a newcomer, W. Law-
rence, challenging the old firms and
carrying off the ram championship and
many other awards. B.Ls. are still im-
proving, and in show circles, at least, are
getting closer to the ground.
There was a great roll-up of South-
downs, and less divergence in type was
noticeable than in past years. The en-
thusiasm of stud and export-lamb
breeders was much in evidence here, and
the value of recently-imported animals
will soon be evident in the show ring,
Dorset Horn awards were well dis-
lributed, and the number of exhibitors
bears out the sustained demand for the
breed as the ideal early cross with the
merino.
r*i • _
Marking the Drop.
“Kelpie”: I do not agree with “Rom
Ney” about lamb-marking (B. 10/6/’36).
I have never seen the ear-marking
operation left till after the operations of
castration and docking. It is best done
first. It is undesirable and unpleasant
to hold a lamb with a proiusely bleeding
taa -
I prefer, also, to drop lambs direct into
the paddock after marking. Placing
them in a yard of any sort will increase
the danger of tetanus and disease of the
joints.
Mothering is improved by keeping the
ewes in the yard and letting them into
the paddock after the marking is com-
pleted, care being taken to prevent ex-
cessive scattering.
A long tail in ewes may actually in-
crease the susceptibility to strike by
spreading filth, thus soiling the crutch
and tail tip. The tail of wethers may be
left slightly longer, as this improves hind-
quarters’ appearance.
Maize, Meat and Fuel.
“J. Want”: N. S. Wales South Coast
maize championships help to prove how
universal a coastal crop maize is, and
generate the thought of how much maize
land is going to waste in Australia.
Maize was one of the first staple crops
of the Shoalhaven. By its means the
Atherton, the Manning and many an-
other area in a stretch 2000 miles long
were agriculturalised.
The prize yield in this year’s South
Coast competitions went to the land
which developed Australia’s first merino
stud —Camden Park estate.
It was grown on alluvial loam pasture
land. Cultivation was begun in Sep-
tember —depth Bin., plus harrowing,
rotting and diagonal treatment with a
rotary hoe, followed by the disc in
October. Just before sowing in November
3cwt. super, was harrowed in. The seed
used was Fitzroy, which has had great
successes on the N.S.W. North Coast.
The yield was 116 bushels to the acre.
Average maize production per acre
planted in Australia is about 26 bushels
over the post-war period, but much of
it is grown without fertilisation. Average
annual production is about 8,000,000
bushels.
Without putting new land into cultiva-
tion, it should be possible to double this
output by fertilising and proper cultiva-
tion. And if the stock industries of this
country were organised as they should
be the disposal of grain and of siiaged
stalks for stock feed, and particularly
the fattening of baby beef, should be
a mere bagatelle.
Apart from this, one ton of maize grain
contains 94 gallons of power alcohol,
and stalks and leaves about 34 p.c. An
extra output of 8,000,000 bushels would,
therefore, produce more than twice the
motor fuel—for blending with petrol or
direct use—expected from the Newnes
scheme, on which the Commonwealth
Government proposes to spend millions
in concessions. Power-alcohol factories
cost about £60,000 to erect on the basis
of 2,000,000 gallons p.a. production.
Apart from land already in maize pro-
duction, there are thousands of other
acres which could
be applied profit-
ably to maize out-
put, if the fuel
and beef-feeding
industries were
based on it.
Super. Effects.
“A grico la”:
Phosphalic fertil-
isers are held in
the surface layers
of the soil,
and very little
phosphoric acid is
lost through
drainage.
The residual
effect of a dress-
ing of lewt. super,
p.a, is often not
seen for three to
four years after
application. Most
landholders in the
N.S.W. Table-
lands, Slopes and
Eastern Riverina
divisions apply
that quantity in the autumn every second
year.
Overseas pasture specialists are aston-
ished at the results obtained from these
relatively small dressings. In older coun-
tries never less than 2cwt. per acre and up
to scwt. is used on pasture swards annu-
ally.
But the pasture areas in the Old World
have been grazed over for centuries. In
years to come our farmers and graziers
will have to apply much heavier and more
regular dressings of super.—and lime'in
high-rainfall districts.
Actually, in the southern wheat dis-
tricts of N.S.W. heavier dressings of
super, are being used, and particularly on
wheat land regularly and rotationally
cropped for 30 years past.
The residual effect of phosphatic fer-
tilisers is explained in the research work
conducted at Kybybolite (S.A.) during
1927-28.
The farm investigated, besides carrying
capacity and changes in the botanical cov-
ering, the determination nine years from
the date of the original treatment of the
o Continued on page 24.)


WELL DOCTOR,
YOUR VISITS WILL
ONLY BE SOCIAL
ONES THIS WINTER,
thanks to . .
I
■mIP tfeJlll
«EhJ
.. I
.1
u,
VN
«
r
1
mm
\s v f -' v '-<'s ■ssss&*'
.
■■■
r
a
n
■
1
/
. :..
C
1M
Hi
*
■
M
; ■
S HBb
;
■\UW
1 :
11
:
a hhsm
Jill
i
£2j£
■
■
■
m
mm
mi
f
I I ■
:
I
Hi
<i
■k.
HH
a
a
i
n
M B
; :::-. V
4
i
11
I
■
Mk
■
3MED
n
m
Perth
n
-
V 3
s®jf
'/v
H
■
MBS_
SI
&
I
r
111
HH
X
jjpp
BH
M §m 1c
FINE- —'
KMfiueurfc
::
gjSgjjpg-).:'
:
m
■JnK *& r 6m) CtVt S \i
“^ewdroSons, 1
Ite
DEWARS


FOR BETTER
GOLF
IV/JANY people are unable to
concentrate on their game
because they are not comfortable.
And. badly-fitting shoes are one
of the worst offenders.
You can depend on Abbey Golf
Shoes to give the maximum of
comfort right through the game,
and they’re smart-looking, too.
To keep your Golf Shoes supple
and waterproof, use Dale’s English
Dubbin. Price, 2/6 per tin.
■ft*
PRICE, 30/
WRITE FOR LATEST
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
31G GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
W.A. 36.
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.) i r
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, an "
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVIC .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry B™ddon, j’f
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd W H. "ay J «eres
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. J A. snipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
BRANDAUER’S
ss®
I
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOER & CO.. Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt a.
’Phone: BWI2IB
FREAKS
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
■‘LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in H hours.
London & North Eastern Kailway
for luxury, speed, comfort.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIEP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Foliow your usua.
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
: n two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn}
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove even
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
■■'Mm
Mm -m
~ ■:<
iwß <;i
SB*
g’lxJf
«
f.
1
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
SCHUTE
BEUUC*
distribution of phosphoric qcid and lime
in each 2in. soil-layer, down to a depth
of one foot.
Results showed that on land receiving
1 ton of lime and lcwt. super, (the latter
applied annually) the bulk of both lime
and phosphoric acid had been retained in
the second 2in. layer of soil. Here, of
course, it would be ideally held for the
use of plant roots.
In pasture investigations carried out at
the Connecticut (U.S.A.) State Agricul-
ture College, it was found that even after
six years practically all the increases in
available phosphorus from super, were
confined to the upper 2in. of soil. For
two years, at least, most of the phos-
phoric acid was retained in the first inch
of surface soil.
The Danish Way.
“W.E.J.”: Dairying hasn't made much
headway in South Westralia, fine country
though it is ; and the taxpayer gets a head-
ache when he thinks of the group settle-
ments. But the Government Superinten-
dent of Dairying, G. K. Baron-Hay, has
been reminding W.A. cow-farmers that
they enjoy a privilege which has been ex-
ploited with wonderful success in Den-
mark.
In 1887 the Danish Government intro-
duced a Domestic Animals Breeding
Act, providing for grants to “bull clubs 1 ’
towards the purchase of pure-bred bulls
from tested dams. It was stipulated that
not less than 50 p.c. of the cows owned
by members of clubs seeking grants must
be tested.
“In this State,” said Mr. Baron-Hay in
a lecture, “there are corresponding
provisions. We have a Dairy Cattle Im-
provement Act and a bull-subsidy scheme.
And assistance is granted only for the
purchase of pure-bred sires from tested
cows.”
According to this Superintendent of
Dairying, Danish requirements in the
way of stud-book registration are severe.
Only superior older bulls of good descent,
the production of whose dam and grand
dam has exceeded the standard set, are
admitted in the Herd Book. As for test-
ing, 300,000 cows were tested in 1933-34.
Average production was 3131 b. butter-fat.
Average production of 546 cows entered
in the Herd Book in 1934 was 5121 b.
And Denmark is a smallholders’ coun-
try. Ninety-two p.c. of the herds con-
sist of “fewer than 15 milch cows.”
Shouldn’t we be going in for small-
holdings also? Even “subsistence farms”
for unemployed countrymen would be
something, although one of our young
economists objects to them.
Apropos, the chairman of the West-
ralian Agricultural Bank Commission has
been reminding group settlers that they
can’t expect to do much with cream pro-
duction alone: they must go in for pigs
and grow their own vegetables “and such-
like.” It is deplorable that such an in-
struction should be necessary.
Gates.
“Liss”: To equip a run with well-hung
gates need not be expensive, especially if
the actual making of the gates is reserved
for wet days. Gates should be standard-
ised in two styles—loft. where vehicles
must pass and 7ft. 6in. for stock gates.
All bolts used are 3|in. x fin., except
those in the hinges, iron washers being
used under the nuts. The bolts used
in the hinges are 4in. (two) where
i the hinges cross the butt, and 3in. (four)
; where the hinges lie along the lower
; batten, a piece of 3in. x lin. being in-
serted underneath to keep it level.
Use seasoned 3in. x lin. hardwood
and keep a stock on hand.
All gates should at all times be kept
painted. Their life depends on it.
Standardise color.
For the 10ft. gate, six uprights are
needed, two each for the head, centre
strut and butt—all 4ft. There should
be five 10ft. bars and four brace pieces,
which are cut after the gate is put
together. Go over the edges with a
plane or a wood rasp (following the
latter with coarse emery cloth) to smooth
! off the splinters. It makes the painting
easier and does not take long.
The battens are spaced, from the top
of the head to the top of the top batten,
3yin.; then between battens, 9in., 6in.,
6in., 6in. and 24in. from the bottom of
the bottom batten to the bottom of the
head ; total, 4ft.
The pair of centre uprights are placed
in the exact middle of the gate and in
the same relative position as the butt
and head. The braces, also in pairs, run
from the bottom, near the lower hinge, to
the top of the centre strut, and from
the bottom of the centre strut to the
top of the head. These should be care-
fully cut to fit exactly, using an adjust-
able bevel and mitre-box if obtainable.
The life of the gate depends to a great
extent on the efficiency of these struts.
The smaller gate is made in the same
way, except that the centre strut is left
out and the braces run from the lower
end of the butt to the top of the head.
Should a netted gate be needed, only
four bars are used. The bottom one is
dropped to within a half-inch of the
bottom of the uprights, and the bar
second from the top spaced so that its
top is 3in. from the bottom of the gate.
When covering with netting, tack it on
to the outside of the gate, as it is then
more easily removed for painting. It is
difficult to paint a gate through netting.
The job done, a coat of raw linseed
oil should be soaked well in before
painting. The oil closes the cracks and
pores in the wood and enables the paint
to form a weather-tight skin.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.G.”: Nine inches of old motor tyre
makes an excellent kneepad for garden
use or laying concrete paths, etc. The
piece will fit snugly over the knee, and
can be kept on with a couple of pieces
of string fixed to the ends.
“Silky Bag”: Adding to “Zedo’s” hint
(B. 10/6/’36) on farrowing rails, watch
the sow closely and remove afterbirth and
bloodstained straw. If once she begins
to eat the former, she might continue on
the piglets. Keep all blood well away
from her.
“Farmint”: Stockholm tar is the best
first-aid kit on any farm, and a tin
should always be handy in bails or
stables. Never neglect any cut, scratch
or abrasion on a beast; use a small
paintbrush to treat the injury with tar.
It is healing and antiseptic, and it keeps
the flies away.
“Sandy”: If you have to cut your
green feed with a scythe, try this. Swing
the scythe into the crop and then come
back swinging out, making the two cuts
into one swath. A great time-saver,
especially in the case of light crops.
“Colon”: Don’t be in a .hurry to clear
your grazing paddocks of fallen timber.
In my experience, a paddock thus lit’
tered invariably carries a better covering
of grass to make up for the small area
taken up by the logs, which provide capi-
tal shelter for young lambs.
“M.L.A.”: Dehorning, eh? Catch the
calf before it is ten days old, sit it on
its rump (don’t tie its legs), feel for the
horn buttons and clip the hair round
each. Then rub a moistened caustic
stick (not too moist) into the horn. In
a few minutes a little hollow is made
and the root starts to bleed; but it will
heal. The job is easy, painless and never
fails.
“Bayard”: Poisoning rabbits with
strychnine, you say? Dig black thistles,
using only the white roots ; wash clean
in running water —don’t scrape. Cut
900 baits and place in tin; add two
tablespoons each of white sugar and
brown sugar, mixing well. Leave them
to sweat overnight; strain the juice on
next morning. Then add one teaspoon
each of essence of vanilla, essence of
almonds and rectified spirits of wine,
two small drops of oil of cummins,
one tablespoon flour, Jfoz. finely-pow-
dered strychnine, one tablespoon white
sugar. Stir thoroughly as each ingredi-
ent is added. Spread out in the sun to
dry until baits will not stick. Drop one
bait in each hole dug with setter, using
an old spoon. Provided no rain falls, the
bait will remain fresh for weeks.
Victoria is now definitely committed
to bulk handling of wheat. One hundred
and forty-eight elevators are to be
erected at country railway stations and
terminal elevators at Geelong and
Williamstown. Estimated cost, £1,881,34.\
Geelong handles about 60 p.c. of Vic-
toria’s export wheat.
“Country Ped”: Inferior grading and
packing of apples, is it (B. 27/5/ 36)? In
Victoria the growers’ association fixes
the three stringent grades. The fruit
is graded by machinery for . size,
and by sight for color and blemishes .
and is packed and wrapped by expert
packers in the manner approved by me
Government experts, while the cases used
are only of the types permitted by
Government regulation. Moreover, lruit
inspectors inspect every consignment,
large or small, before it is allowed to
leave the packing shed, and the fruit is
again inspected when it arrives at the
ship’s side.


SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘Well, so long, old chap, l must go. 1
can hear my car at the door.’ ”
—Line from an amateur play.
Must have heard it knocking.
*l* -I* •£■ -h
“A Sydney University coach has mentioned
instances of otherwise capable students who
were driven almost mad by Latin.”
Fits of the Horace.
T “I* v *l*
“ ‘Germany must not be asked to take a
back seat,’ says Goebbels.”
Or she might take affront.
+l+
Traffic slogan: He who overtakes is
lost.
-T. .J. J. .U
“Actors don’t usually enjoy the best of
health.” — Article.
Then they don’t deserve to have it.
•j* *•«
“Such a brilliant surgeon achieved fame en-
tirely on his merits, starting in the profession
actually in debt.” —Medical journal.
Carved his own destiny, as it were.
*l* *s* *l*
“A major pest to the wheat industry—the
common barberry bush—is not to be found
in Canberra, as has been alleged.”— “Sun.”
After all, there can’t be room there
for every pest.
“Will you have chloroform or ether, Mr. Jones P”
“Crooks Cannot Sing in Church.”
—“Telegraph” headline.
But do they often want to?
*?•
“20,000 on a string.”— “Sun” report of
Chinese fireworks celebrations.
Our local member can beat that
hollow.
.!« 4.
“In bygone days concert parties, radios and
visitors were unknown in the State prisons.”
So that’s why they were called the
good old days!
*l* *l* *l*
“A penurious English lord has been com-
pelled to accept employment on the London
stage.”— “Cable.”
Bally hard lines—what?
•S* *l-
- people think being a politician is
childs play,’ says JVI.L.A.”
Why not? Don’t they indulge in a
lot of kidding?
“Russia Buys Lead.” —News item.
For comrades to swing when they want
to strike?
“It will be quite the regular thing to travel
to London by air in two years .’’—“Sun.”
In fact, it only wants a few more Gov-
ernment regulations and the trip might
even take longer!
“There will, in any case, be another expedi-
tion next year to conquer the world's highest
peak.”— “S.M.H.”
Ml. Never-resf.
•j. .j. 4. »i*
Benefit of Doubt.
Hastily replacing her cocktail glass on
the table, Clarice squeezed my hand.
“Look!” she whispered excitedly.
“There’s Jill with Jack—they say she’s
living with”
She paused significantly and raised her
pencilled brows slightly. I nodded.
“And I’m told,” she rattled on, “that
Bobby Checkbooke’s broke. Went
through fifteen thou, in 12 months, and
now he’s likely to be nabbed for fraud
or embezzlement or something awful.
But you’d never think it to look at him.”
“Um,” I murmured.
“Yes, rotten, isn’t it, but idle gossip’s
never far wrong. Heavens!” she ex-
claimed, “I didn’t know Betty Swyftlife
came here. Doesn’t she dress marvel-
lously? No wonder, though, with old
Gaybird to give her everything she asks
for”
“Hang it all, Clarice,” I cut' in hotly,
“aren’t you mean to listen to all that
scandal?”
“Of course not,” she assured me
calmly. “I don’t believe a word of it!”
P. M.
-I- *l* -I-
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
VI. — Road-sense and Distance-
judgment.
As you alternate from kerb to kerb
along the narrow street a loud blaring at
the back will denote an overtaking car.
Tell the wife to keep as far over to the
left as she can. A few more impatient
tootings while she is trying to get into
position will put her in a good mood.
“Some of these drivers want' oil the
road to themselves!” she’ll say. “Let
him wait.”
Don’t get fidgety as you sway up the
street to the accom-
panying rearward
din. Eventually, of
course, she will
pull over to her
proper side quite
by accident. As a
taxi comes along-
side and the driver
yells, “If you must
‘tack’ up the street
against this head
wind, missus, why
don’t y’ rig up a
set o’ sails?” it
would be best to
make a show of
taking his number
(which you can rip
up later) so that
she may report him
“for his impu-
dence.”
A man stepping
off the pavement
several hundred
yards ahead will
bring immediate
action. With a
“Look at that fool
there —starting to
cross over now ; I
suppose I’ll have to
go around him,” she will take one hand
off the wheel to give a piercing blast on
the horn. Be prepared here to grab the
wheel as you make for the gutter, and
say :
“Don’t worry about him—he’ll be
across before you get anywhere near,”
which will bring the obvious response’-
“Yes, it’s all right for you—but what
it I knock him down?”
As you will still be over 200 yards off
when the pedestrian reaches the opposite
pavement discussion on the subject will
automatically lapse.
Coming to her first cross-street will
obvious y be a strain, so prepare for any
eventuality. y
Having heard of the high proportion
of accidents at crossings she will approach
it fearfully at about four m.p.h. When
half-way across the intersection, she looks
along and sees a car aproaching, a few
blocks away on her left, tell her to step
on it and go forward. She will promptly
slam on the brake and, having forgotten
to put the clutch in, will stall the engine.
As it' is good practice to let her think
for herself,, say nothing as she steps on
the starter-button while still in second
gear and the car leaps forward a foot and
the engine stalls again.
After telling her to get into neutral
first, keep a keen ear for the many verbal
shafts slung from the held-up cars. There
might be a few witty things that you can
use when you go out
to see the football
Tests.
When, after many
spasmodic jerks, you
move forward again,
suitably respond to
the ironic cheers that
greet her furious
efforts.
S. W. K.
►j.
Never Again.
Jonkins gazed at his
wrecked home. The
radio was smashed be-
yond repair; the
washing-machine lay
on its side, a twisted
and broken heap of
metal; standing in a
corner was a two-
hundred - guinea
player - piano that
could never be used
again. Every room
was filled with broken
machines of some
kind or other; and
the garbage-tin was
overflowing with
smashed beaa-
stringers, cake-mixers,
etc.
As Jonkins sur-
veyed the heart-break-
ing sight, he made a
firm res o 1 u tion:
“Never again will I believe an advertise-
ment which says ‘So simple that a child
can operate it.’ ”
S. Esq.
•b 4* ■ »i*
“I am not one of those boring persons, I
hope.”— Cricket-writer Neville Cardus.
Vain hope!
*1- *l*
The Inventor.
I am a broken man. Life no longer
holds any joy for me. The cause of my
sorrow? Listen.
I am —or rather was—an inventor. My
first invention came at a time when the
world was full of jokes about the dis-
posal of safety-razor blades. It was a
simple method of completely dissolving
the blades in a fluid. A week before I
was ready to stun the world with my
genius someone brought out the cigar-
cutter and pocket-knife gadget for using
old blades.
I next succeeded in evolving a cork-
screwless cork. I thought my fortune
was made. I was about to place it on
the market when from out of the blue
came the crown seal.
Two such defeats would have killed
an ordinary man’s spirit, but I threw
myself into my work with even greater
vigor. 1 had just invented a gramophone
that would announce its own records
when radio came and did the same job
without requiring needles. From then
on my life was a nightmare of thwarted
genius.
But a fortnight ago I achieved the
summit of my career. I visualised myself
as a genius recognised and honored the
world over. I saw myself rich beyond
all dreams. I perfected the most start-
ling advancement in dental science the
world has ever seen —actually unbreak-
able dentures! Feverishly I prepared to
market my great achievement, and then
—the blow fell.
Some cow invented a rubber-lined
washbasin.
R. H. A.
•f* *1- -I* *!'
“It is a comfortable thing, really, for a
woman to be able to admit that she is fat and
forty.”
Especially if she is sixty.
•J* •£«
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XXI. — Melbourne’s Night Life.
While not claiming to compete with
Vienna, Tokio or Paris in the variety and
color of its night-life, Melbourne is not
entirely devoid of nocturnal entertain-
ment. Automatic weighing machines and
cigarette machines do a roaring trade,
and few cities offer greater facilities for
shop-window gazing.
The tourist may derive infinite enjoy-
ment at no cost at all from watching the
colored traffic lights at street intersections.
These are perfectly simple to follow —for
anyone except sailors. I once saw two
half-sozzled seamen pulled up for walk-
ing against the red light.
“Hi!” said the policeman. “Can’t y’
see the light’s turned red?”
“Yes,” replied one of the sailors. “But
so's the other one. It’s qui’ all ri’, ole
man,” and he proceeded to quote:
“Green to green and red to red,
Perfect safety ; go ahead /”
The policeman, not having had the
benefit of a nautical education, began to
“Where did y ’ put th ’ lottery ticket, Bill ?”
argue. Just then the lights turned yellow.
The sailors were all at sea.
“Shiver me timbers!” said one. “That
hooker’s put up the quarantine signal.
Let’s get out of this!”
And they flung themselves under an
oncoming cable tram, throwing it off the
line and dislocating the traffic for half an
hour.
Ihe milk-bars and coffee inns, though
not as tuneful as German biergartens, at
any rate give forth a clinking of glasses
which to a tourist of imagination may
prove quite exhilarating.
Mrs. Loofah had a most hilarious time
during her first week in Melbourne. She
went to three concerts, two prayer meet-
ings, a sewing circle and a wrestling
match. The last item was unpremedi-
tated. She thought they said “Wesleyan,”
and by the time she discovered her mis-
take the place was too crowded to get
out of.
Fortunately, she had brought her knit-
ting, and she gave a splendid perform-
ance of detached purling and plaining
amid the hammerlocks, toe grips and
Boston crabs.
Claude Counterpane, who happened to
be at the match also, said that it re-
minded him of the old women who used
to knit in the shadow of the guillotine,
except that she didn’t even look up when
the champion was thrown out of the ring.
Mrs. Loofah was terribly indignant
about the “horrible exhibition of bru-
tality,” and said she’d get her husband to
write a letter about it to the Little Pudds-
ley “Gazette” when they got back to
England.
Loofah agreed to, and sneaked out to
the Stadium with Claude a couple of
nights later to get further information. I
don’t know whether he got any, but next
time the subject was mentioned Mrs. L.
said very frigidly that she was going to
write the letter herself.
Jasby.
Justifiable Homicide.
I’ve killed that man who sang you
serenades !
No more he’ll stand appealing •
Beneath your lattice while the sombre
shades
Of night come stealing.
No foolish fit of frantic jealousy
Excited me to do it;
If that had been the motive hitteily
I now would rue it.
But, no! I’m glad I’ve settled him!
What’s more,
I should have done it sooner.
My reason is that I reside next door:
He was a crooner!
T. W. N.
Confession.
’Tis true I begged you to be mine,
And swore on bended knee
That you were gorgeous, grand, divine,
But that, my dear, was by design ;
There was a catch, you see.
f know I swore that I would go
'Through fire and famine if
7 liat was your wish. But now, sweet,
know
That you don't really thrill me so;
In fact, you bore me stiff.
You gathered, once, that / adored
Your brilliance and your dash;
But I'll admit, now I'm your lord,
All this was done with one accord —
I sorely needed cash.
G. W. W.


A Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:-
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
Chapter VI.
I.
THE first day of May brought a sudden warmth
across England. Paul woke early and saw blue
sky through his window. All clouds were gone, and
the rooftops shone in a golden light. He leaped out
of bed and sniffed at a warm breeze which had come
across woods and downs and the new green fields.
There was no easy transition of thought towards
Joyce. She was in his mind at the first moment of
waking. The morning tempted him to be hopeful;
the knowledge that Joyce was in English waters, and
probably already on English soil, made it difficult
for him to return to his fears of the previous night.
Yet he had to go down to them. Lola was not to be
disposed of like a shadow in the dawn ; she had made
her threat, and was equal to carrying it out. Never-
theless, hope has its own quick thoughts, and can
suggest strange possibilities. Something might have
happened in the night; a last-minute compunction
might visit her, or —and this was more tangible —her
memory of what he had told her about the valley in
Surrey might not be clear enough to guide her there.
In this way he responded to the morning’s joyous-
ness, and hurried to his bath with a feeling that the
day might yet turn wonderfully in his favor.
He travelled to Guildford in one of those mid-
morning trains that are always more than half-empty,
and by the time they had rattled past Surbiton and
the chimneys and the yellow blinds of bedrooms were
thinning into backyards, into gardens, into fields, his
first optimism was on the ebb. He was going to
meet Joyce. This was the great day towards which
they had been moving in thought and love ; this was
the day for which Joyce had bidden him prepare
himself. And he came to it out of sordid contention
with Lola. ' .
As the train neared Guildford he examined his
face in a pocket mirror, and was depressed to see
that he showed signs of his uneasy night. A man
hastening towards love should be looking his best,
whereas he had a jaded look and a sort of hot weari-
ness in his eyes. Bitterness followed. Did it matter
if he looked tired and drawn? It was no tremulous
delight of love towards which he was going, but a
situation of strain that would imperil his self-respect
and end his happiness. And yet, was it certain that
Lola would be there? Surely she would hesitate, when
it came to the point, and decide, in a sudden gener-
osity or despair —it didn’t matter which —to allow
her trapped creature to escape. If only she could
learn to let go!
Lola would not be there. Her sense of the fitness
of things was really a sense of her own needs ; but
this was a situation which must call up an inner
delicacy. At the last moment she would turn back.
Nevertheless, it was necessary to face the possi-
bility of evil ; and even now resentment and jealousy
might be driving her towards the valley house. He
felt an uncomfortable nervous looseness. But he had
made his break, and had offered defiance. Out of
that last night had come both a weariness and a
strength. Somehow, in some way, the tangle would
be cleared. In any case, he was going on.
Paul lunched at: Guildford, making the meal a
leisurely one, and afterwards walking at an easy pace
to Gomshall. By this time it was late in the after-
noon. He had left himself comfortable time for a
walk from Gomshall to Joyce’s valley. It was not
more than three miles, and he was able to loiter
along the roads, the lanes and the field-paths that
brought him in the end among certain folds: of the
hills and into woods chat deepened, from a scattered
company of oaks and beeches, into dim and tangled
places.
The path was narrow and faint, and it went down
into hollows stored with the leaves of last year and
out along ridges where saplings stood with slender
white stems that caught the sunshine and sent it
glancing, in weakening shafts of light, towards the
undergrowth. Sometimes there was a glade, and he
would pause against a clay bank ribbed with the
roots of trees and taste the silence of these woods:
a . clear, deep silence, with a freshness in it that
reminded him of a country atmosphere after warm
rain. There came to him also the curious influence
of trees (hat grow apart from the comings and goings
of men.
He fell it as he waited in a glade that was like
some dim sanctuary prepared for woodland refugees:
a place in which there was a promise of toleration
and protection—where even the aspens ceased to
tremble. It brought to Paul a thought of stability,
a steadfastness of things strongly rooted and standing
upright. Here was no intricate trouble of nervous
systems, strung beyond their strength in the clamor
of the newest civilisation. These branches, moved
only when the winds came ; at all other times they
were in peace.
Paul was glad of the woods and the quiet path
leading him towards the valley. He had needed some-
thing like this, and as he continued his walk he began
to feel more sure of himself, and to have confidence
in his strength ; and for the first time he was able
to understand something of Joyce’s mind. She knew
the power of these places, and had wanted to draw
this power towards their meeting, using as much of
it as could be shared between them.
Until now he had understood far too little.
He had had his share of the average man’s desire
to consider himself above the average. And yet,
when Joyce’s letter brought its promise of some-
thing different and noticeably individual, he had be-
come instinctively the average man: aware of the old
tribal outlook, conscious of public opinion, afraid
of the new and untested. He did not understand her
as she had expected him to, but as he walked in the
silence of the woods he was able to look towards her
as a promise of relief and clearness after a long uncer-
tainty.
11.
' He found Lola at the mouth of the valley, sitting
on a log by the side of the track. His first impression
was of something incongruous, for she was like a new
or unusual bird, with a bright plumage but no cer-
tainty in her environment. The wood depressed her,
and there was impatience in the angle of her head
and in the way her small feet were tapping the earth.
If she had had to wait there long enough, thought
Paul, she would have become frightened. She was
out of her element.
Her feet ceased their tapping as she saw Paul,
but she did not leave the log. He saw the sudden
life in her eyes, and began to lose the peace of the
afternoon.
“So you came,” he said, walking to the log and
looking down at her.
“As you see. I suppose you've been hoping I
would lose my way in the woods?”
“There isn't any chance of that in broad day-
light, although it would be a different matter at night.
But I did hope you would think better of your
decision.”
“That wasn’t possible, Paul. I’ve thought too
much about it already. You’ve forced me to do
this” , , , ,
“If you were the woman I’ve always thought
you to be it would take a great deal to force you
to ruin my happiness and the happiness of another.
You’re very bitter, Lola.”
“Nonsense! Surely you don’t think I'm merely
jealous and anxious to keep another woman from
getting what I can't have for myselt? You should
know me better than that. No, Paul; I’ve simply
decided that you don’t know your happiness when
you have it I’m not trying to keep, it from you ; I’m
trying to keep it for you.”
“Then we’re in a hopeless position. We’re talk'
ing different languages. What do you to do
now? Are you coming to the house with me?”
“I am.”
“And then?”
“I’ll wait.”
“Poor Joyce! This is going to be hard for her.
Lola’s eyes grew hard.
“You’re growing kind. It’s nice to see you so
thoughtful for others. Poor Joyce, indeed! I don’t
think she will want your sympathy when she hears
about your loyalty.”
Paul turned away from her.
“We’re wasting time. If you’re coming there s
nothing more to be said. I’ve asked you to be decent
and you won’t listen. We may as well move on
towards the catastrophe.”
“You still feel equal to it? You don’t want to run?
“Not in the least! Strange, isn’t it? I’ve always
been so willing to shirk unpleasant things in the past,
too. Well, come on! We won’t discuss ourselves any
more. We’ve decided to hate each other ; but 1 sup-
pose we can keep a surface politeness.”
“I don’t hate you, Paul,” she said, rising from
the log and beginning to walk with him into the valley.
“You know that.”
“I know nothing,” he said rather irritably. “I've
ceased to think, and I'm going with you now because
something has been started that has to have an end.
I even have a dreadful curiosity to see what will
happen.” . •
She took a quick, sidelong glance at his lace,
and after that made no effort to plead with him. They
walked in silence along a path that escaped from oaks
and sycamores into a plantation of pines. Hitherto
the path had been bordered by green, but now there *
was nothing but brown: the edges of a great carpet
of pine needles spread along the valley floor and
shining where the sun came down between the trees.
At any other time Paul would have found the
valley path a delight. But Lola was with him, and
she had an artificial element that broke through illu-
sion. He was relieved when they came out from the
pines into an acre or two of level but unfenced land
lying like a rough lawn at the base of the great
mound which bore the house so proudly above the
treetops. It did not look very big from this view,
but Paul could see the fitness of it: a loving glow
of the sun in'its faded bricks, and many windows
to hold the sun from its setting. He could imagine
that at this hour the house would become suddenly
alight, as if with an internal radiance of its own ;
and all at once he felt an understanding of Joyce’s
uncle and of the vision that had caused him to set
up this home like a special and beautiful sanctuary.
Its simplicity escaped from the narrow limits of period
and style. Only in the two slim pillars by the front
door was there a glimpse of the pines.
Paul could see that the front door was open,
but he did not want to take Lola up there. He
might have to in the end, but at least the evil
moment could be delayed. He looked across the
level green and saw a gleam of water in the shadow
of a copse. Lola followed his glance. She had had
no word to say of the house, for which Paul was
thankful; but the distant pool caught her interest.
“What is it?” she asked.
He remembered a paragraph in Joyce’s letter.
“The Pool of Forgetfulness. It’s quite well known
in the district, I believe ; and there are the usual
legends about suicides and ghosts.”
“It looks sinister,” she said with a slight shiver.
“Shall we have a peep at it?”
He was thankful for her interest in things slightly
morbid. If only he could keep her out of the house
altogether!
They walked across to the pool, which was really
a miniature lake, lying with rather an evil intentness
of surface under a high clay bank covered with black-
thorn.
“It’s very deep,” said Paul. “They 11 tell you in
Gomshall that there’s no bottom to it, and that if
you fell in there you’d-never come up again.”
Lola shivered again.
“There’s a look of death in it.”
He agreed with her.
“It certainly looks full of dark secrets. How
it would hide things away! Men bring their troubles
to places like this.”
Lola was standing a step in front of him, her
face bent towards the still surface of the pool, and
the thought came to him, like a poison pricking into
his nerves, that it would be dreadfully easy to give
her one little push. In a moment she would be gone,
with scarcely a cry, and afterwards the pool would
hasten to cover its satisfied depths, the blackthorn
would lean down and drop a petal or two, and the
afternoon would resume its peace.
He shuddered in the sunshine at the darkness
and strength of the thought, and perhaps the forcfe
of it was communicated to Lola. Or perhaps thoughts
of this kind live by right in such places. For it seemed
that of a sudden she realised a possibility of danger.
The dark waters looked near; she was close to an
edge of earth that might crumble away before her
foothold ; and beside her was a man who had cause
to fear, perhaps to hate, her. Suspicion and terror
must have fused in a flash within her, for she made
a convulsive movement to draw back. The move-
ment was too sudden and nervous, and her feet
slipped.
“Look out!” exclaimed Paul.
He grabbed her to draw her back, but she was
afraid of him and believed that he wished to end
what an accident had begun. She gave a sharp cry
and struggled foolishly. There was one second in
which it seemed that she must go into the pool and
drag Paul with her ; but his weight saved them, and
he dragged her clear and allowed her to sink on
safe ground in a nerveless heap.
THE STORY UP TO NOW.
Joyce Manson has herself appointed
medical officer in a small outpost in the
Fly River district, Papua, in order that
she may make a study of tropical
diseases. There she meets Paul Burnley,
a visiting English anthropologist , whom
she promises to follow to London to
marry; and Murdoch, Resident Com-
missioner of the district, who also falls
in love with her.
Joyce has arranged that her first meet-
ing with Paul in England shall he at her
old home, hidden away in a wooded
valley in the South. Paul’s mistress Lola,
since Paul refuses to have anything
further to do with her, decides to go
there and tell Joyce of their relationship.


“There!” he muttered. “Thank God for that!”
He had acted impulsively, without any reference
to reason or emotion, and now he was glad.
Lola was gasping painfully.
“Paul! I thought—l thought you were going
to My God!”
“I’m not a murderer,” said Paul shortly.
But the thought had been in his mind, and he
knew that in the atmosphere which brooded near the
pool it had not seemed as terrible as it should have
done.
She clutched his arm.
“It was all in a moment. I hadn’t thought of
anything like that. And then the water seemed to
open before me, and I felt that I was gone. Paul!
You don’t feel that way towards me?”
“I’ve no reason to love you.”
He could not resist this impulse to show her that
she was stirring hatred, and that fear and insecurity
must stay like a mist around her if she kept her resolve
to harm him. She did not answer, but continued to
crouch where he had let her fall; and now for the
first time he noticed her extreme physical agitation.
She was breathing noisily, and her face was an un-
healthy color. She was running the tip of her tongue
nervously along her lips, and he was surprised to
see that they had taken on a bluish tinge.
“It’s all right,” he tried to reassure her. “You’re
quite safe now.”
“Yes, yes,” she muttered rather hastily. “I know
I’m safe. But it gave me a shock. I’ll be all right in a
moment. You needn’t stare at me like that”
She turned away to hide the dis-
tress in her face, and he noticed that
she put a hand to her bosom and
pressed it there. For the first time
he saw something pitiful in Lola. She
was usually very sure of herself; but
shock had betrayed a poverty of re-
serves. It was like a disclosure of
accumulating years. Youth was buoy-
ant and could recover swiftly ; but as
one grew older there were secret phy-
sical conditions that lay in wait for
moments such as this and used them
spitefully. , Youth could change color
and regain balance in two deep
breaths. Lola was not as healthy as ‘
she liked to pretend.
He knew that she hated him to
witness her embarrassment, and he
turned aside from the pool and began
to walk about. The sun was passing
below the western wall of the valley,
and its last rays, glancing across the
massed treetops, sought out some
subtle or generous arrangement of
glass and kindled it into radiance. In
that moment the house became the
living heart of the valley. The dazz-
ling light reached Paul and stirred
him almost as if he had heard a great
gong sounded from the depths of the
woods.
He watched the radiance die
away, and thought once more of a
gong—its deep clamor trembling into
remote vibrations. The atmosphere
had become charged with a new
power. It would pass very soon, noi doubt, and
could mean nothing more than that the day was
closing down. But to his inner sense it was also
a warning that Joyce had come to the other end
of the valley and was now drawing near.
“I’m all right now,” said a voice at his side, and
he saw that Lola had come to him and was watching
him with dark, resentful eyes.
He had hoped faintly that her narrow escape
would do something to soften her. A glimpse of
death should be able to hold one back from a dubious
enterprise. But it was clear that Lola had not been
affected in this way ; and as he looked at her he
suspected that her chief trouble, now that physical
danger was removed, was the fact that he had wit-
nessed her breakdown.
“Well?” he asked. “Have you had a change
of mind?”
She laughed.
“How little you know me! I suppose you expect
me to turn round and be loving and forgiving simply
because I’ve had a scare!”
“1 couldn’t help thinking that death makes our
most important plans look trivial. And death was
close to you, Lola.”
She shook her plump shoulders, as though his
words had summoned dark wings to brush against
them.
“Death wasn’t close enough.”
“Perhaps not. But he’s hanging around, don’t you
think? There’s a breath of him in the air to-day. Or
is it only my fancy?”
He had not meant to frighten her, but there
was still something of that first thought in his
mind, and he could not help using it. She did not
answer, but began to walk towards the house. He
stood for a moment and watched her. From the
top of her small hat to the toes of her small shoes
she was correctly clothed and finished. Her ankles
were delightfully small and neat. Lola was proud of
her legs, and wore high heels so that the tapering effect
could be carried to the ground. But her shoulders
were growing heavy, and in spite of her resolute
carriage she was bending forward just a little. There
was surplus flesh on Lola, and she knew it. Un-
doubtedly it was good flesh, of a delicate whiteness
and a softness she liked to discuss ; but she was losing
something that had been with her even three years
before: a spring and vigor and a quickness of youth.
There was no disgrace in growing old, however ;
and if he really cared for Lola he would be able to
watch her now with gentle and tolerant smiles as she
tried to walk across the uneven ground on her high and
shaky heels. He would want to go after her and put
his arm around that growing waist, defying the years
to break down his essential conception of her.
He shrugged impatiently. The time for thought
was over, and there was little to do except follow
Lola towards the final ruin of his affairs.
111.
They passed through the hall aild up carpeted
stairs aglow with the colors of evening which streamed
through a high window of stained glass, so that the
steps seemed to lead, not to a turning and a landing,
but to some region of sky eternally' quickening with
sunset. :
“Where are you going?” asked Paul from the
foot of the stairs. “If you must wait for Joyce why
not stay in the hall?”
She would not answer him, and as she vanished
around the turning of the stairs he choked back his
anger and followed. He found her at the door of
a room to which she seemed to have, been led by
instinct, for when she opened it she made a sound
of satisfaction. She went inside, and Paul stayed at
the threshold watching her. It was not until she
reached the centre of the room and stood near the
bed that he could trust himself to speak.
“I think you should come out of there, Lola.”
“Don’t be silly! It’s all very nice but rather plain.
And too much light. Look at those great windows,
wide open. I’m afraid it wouldn’t suit me.” ,
“Lola,” he said again, “you’re trespassing.”
. She laughed.
“What does it matter? I’m sure your Joyce won’t
begrudge me a peep into her bedroom.”
“It’s 1 who begrudge it.”
“You!”
She turned to
look at him with lazy
contempt.
“I suppose you do
matter a little. And it
must be annoying to
have to look at this
100 m that was to have
been the scene of such
There was one second in which it seemed she must
go into the pool and drag Paul with her.
a sweet dedication. But I wouldn’t worry about it
if I were you. There are nicer rooms than this and
nicer beds. What a great wooden thing it is, after all! ”
She went up to it and handled the coverlet.
“Snowy sheets turned back and a smell of sweet
new linen. But what a mattress! One would need
to be very much in love to feel any softness in that
solid thing!”
She turned from the bed.
“It’s all so plain. Look at this dressing-table!
Three good mirrors and a nice piece of wood, but
absolutely nothing on it except a' brush and comb
and a pot of face cream. The woman must be a
savage!”
She came back to the centre of the room and
examined the walls and floor.
“There’s no carpet, Paul—just a bit' of a mat
here and there and an acre of polished floor. No,
thank you! It may be airy and clean, but that’s all.
I’m sure I couldn’t make love in a place like this.”
“I agree with you,” said Paul, coming forward
from the door. “It would be quite impossible. A
woman like you must have shadows soaked in per-
fume and a multitude of cushions and hangings drawn
close to keep out the daylight. You live and breathe
in your own dim atmosphere, and you're out of your
element here. You think it’s bare, but you can’t see
that it keeps the light to the very end of day, and
that it would be beautiful for waking in, with those
windows open and the smell of the pines and the sun-
light coming through together. There’s something
here that couldn’t be broken down—even by a
woman like you.”
She turned to him with dark eyes.
“You’ve been glad of a woman like me in the
past. That’s something you can’t wipe out, and you
can’t keep me from telling your Joyce about it. By
the time she’s finished with you you’ll be glad to
come back to me. I may be out pf place here; I
thank God if I am. I’m a civilised person, and can
leave bare rooms to slum-dwellers and savages. But
you’re out of place, too. You don’t belong, Paul
Burnley. You belong to me! I’ve told you that a
hundred times ; I’m waiting to tell it to Joyce. You’re
mine! And there isn’t a house or a woman in Eng-
land that can take you from me!”
She came up to him and put her hands on his
arms.
“Paul,” she said in a changed voice, “I’m tired of
quarrelling with you. I don’t like it, and it hurts
both of us. How can I say these hard things to you
when I’m wanting to pull your stubborn head down
to my lips?”
: “Then be reasonable. You’ve behaved rather
cheaply in coming here like this, Lola; and it’s up
to you to be decent while there’s time. Won’t you
please go?”
The soft light went out of her eyes.
“And leave you to your lover? I think not!”-
“Then,” said Paul, his anger showing, “I’ll ask
you to leave this room and go downstairs.”
“I’m here to stay. I’ll not move until I hear
the woman arrive.”
She turned sharply towards the door.
“What is it?” asked Paul, his pulse quickening.
“You didn’t hear anything?”
“Not exactly. But I thought I saw”
She laughed nervously. *
“It must have been a shadow by the doorway.
That’s the worst of these great houses. Your eyes
and ears can’t get used to emptiness and silence, and
they invent shadows that move and sounds that echo.”
She breathed a sigh.
“You’ve made me nervous, Paul. And no
wonder! I’ll be glad to get away from here.”
“It will be dark in another hour. Will you feel
equal to those wood paths on your
own?”
“I shan’t be on my own. You’ll
be with me.”
He laughed.
“At least you’re consistent. But
this time you can’t have all your own
way. I’ve no doubt I’ll be expected to
leave when Joyce has heard your little
story ; but I’ve no intention of escort-
ing you through the woods. It
wouldn’t be safe.”
“What do you' mean?”
“I couldn’t trust myself, Lola.
Surely you understand? I’m a long-
suffering person, and I’ve stood a lot
from you, perhaps because I’ve a sus-
picion that it’s all my own doing. But
there are some lonely glades in those
woods. Not a sound in them.”
“What of it? Is there anything in
silence to be afraid of?”
“Sometimes, Lola.”
He took a step towards her,
aware that she was uneasy and feel-
ing his new power over her: a naked
and ugly power, with its meaning in
physical strength.
“Think, my dear! A lonely
glade, miles from a road or a house,
and no one with you except a man
who is learning to hate you!”
She drew back from him, but
attempted to laugh.
“It won’t do, Paul. I’ve had my
fright for the day. You’ve tried to
persuade me to leave you alone, and
now that everything else has failed
you’re making threats. Is it murder
you’re thinking of?”
“It isn’t always murder. Some-
times there’s an impulse comes over
a man —and sweeps clean. It could
happen so quickly. Why, if I only felt my hands
on you”
Why was he talking like this? It was not his
own thought. This was some dark exhalation from
that pool, drawn in with his breath and making a
disturbance in his blood. He didn’t want to threaten
Lola or frighten her.. And yet there must be some-
thing dark in his face if it could reflect itself in her
eyes as that deep flash of fear.
Lola made an effort.
“I’ve had to learn a lot about you lately, Paul;
but I’ll never learn to fear you. Do you think I could
be afraid to feel your hands on me?”
She came close to him, her face uplifted.
“I’ve still some power over you ; and I know that
if we were among the trees together, and you put
your hands on me, all your violence would go into
love-making.”
He wanted to say something quick and harsh ;
but as he was about to speak he saw a listening look
in her eyes, and in a sudden dread he waited. The
room grew still.
“I thought,” said Lola presently—and stopped.
Again that listening look, and this time Paul also
could hear something. And there came from the open
doorway downstairs a voice he had not heard for
months.
“Paul!”
“Joyce!” he whispered.
{Continued on page 50.)


Marriage
and Insurance
V
XxJ
New responsi-
bility begins
with the happy
union of two
people the
future stretches
before with
changes no
one can foretell. Secure your
wife and family a guaranteed
income—a small regular saving
buys complete protection. Enquire
also about the free hospital benefits
with cessation of premium pay-
ments on permanent disability.
BLE PRQM&
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .°
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House. Angel Flare, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PE It KINS, Geueral Manager.
Established 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, ( LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,C12 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
rHE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
An Unusual Island Tale:-
THE HOLOCAUST
BY JULIAN HILLAS.
THE water in the lagoon was a mirror
reflecting the palisade of green palms
which grew like fantastic feather-
dusters in the sparse, sandy soil.
Barrington stared at the island. “They
don’t seem very excited to see us,” he
observed, glancing again at the beach
where a few naked children played
among the drawn-up canoes. “You don’t
often call at Reva, I believe?”
“Once a year.” Captain Otis joined
his solitary passenger by the rail. “Used
to be twice when copra was up—not as
how I ever got enough then to make it
worth while. You can see for yourself
the island ain’t any bigger than a three-
penny bit.”
“Any whites?”
Otis shook his head. “No. There
used to be a chap and his wife here once,
but that was fifteen year ago.”
“Funny kind of place for a man to
bring his wife.”
“They were a funny kind of couple.
I remember wonderin’ at the time I
brought ’em how things was goin’ to
pan out.”
“You took them back?”
“They never went back.” Captain Otis
was silent for a moment. “Never . . .
Come down below an’ I’ll tell you a
story —in a manner of speakin’ I’ve had
it on my mind these twelve years.
YOUNGLING an’ his wife were mis-
** sionaries,” Otis began when they
were seated in the schooner’s tiny saloon,
“sent out by one of them fundamentalist
churches in America that believed in the
end of the world cornin’ pretty soon.
Accordin’ to their reckonin’ there wasn’t’
more’n a year or so left, an’ they rushed
the Hunglings to Samoa with orders to
vvork both watches.
“It’s queer the ideas people have about
the Islands. Hungling was like all the
rest, an’ he came down expectin’ to find
Apia chock-full of grass-skirted heathens
waitin’ for salvation. It took him quite
a while to understand the Samoans were
pretty finicky in that line, havin’ had the
choice of three or four brands for over
a century. I think he’d ha’ soon got dis-
couraged if some fool hadn’t told him
about Reva.
“I’ve always had a soft spot for the
Revans. There ain’t above two hundred
of ’em, an’ bein’ so durned poor no-
body’s ever bothered ’em much. Least-
ways not until Hungling got the notion
of livin’ on the island. Nominally they
was Christians, same as the rest of the
group, but bein’ out of touch with the
world their religion was a bit rusty.
They’d whoop out a few hymns every
Sunday an’ then like as not finish the
service with some of their own dances.
It gave ’em a bad name in mission circles,
but, as I said before, they were too poor
to worry about.
“T h e Aloha
was the only boat
callin’ at Reva,
and Hungling
came on board to
see me about a
passage. He was
a tall, thin man
with pale, dried-
up skin stretched
tight over his
face. He brought along his wife —a
stout, homely body with flat feet.
“I remember he was still wearin’ a
dark suit, although they’d been several
weeks in Samoa. There was nothin’
bright or colorful about the Hunglings.
With them comfort came mighty close
to bein’ a sin. I told him he wouldn't
be able to get off the island for six or
eight months, an’ that it wasn’t no kind
of a place for folk fresh out from home.
“ ‘Capt’n Otis,’ he says, lookin’ me
straight in the face. ‘Who am I that I
should turn from this opportunity to
bring light to them that are in dark-
ness? Did not our Lord say “Go ye
into all the world, and preach the Gos-
pel to every creature”?’
“After that' I just answered his ques-
tions. I could see he was set on goin’
an’ nothin’ I was likely to say would
stop him.
E had the saloon to ourselves;
*» Hungling, his wife an’ myself. Most
of the day he’d sit in here readin’, while
Mrs. Hungling fetched out her sewin’.
“ ‘ls it true that the Revan women
only wear lava-lavas ?’ she asked me,
‘and that they work with their breasts
uncovered?’
‘“I guess it is,’ I told her. ‘They’ve
never had no cause to do otherwise.’
“ ‘We shall change that very quickly,
my dear,’ Hungling said, glancin’ up from
his book, an’ then I saw the reason for
those ankle-length Mother Hubbards she
was for ever makin’ an’ puttin’ away in
a box.
“At other times the two of them
would discuss details of the life ahead.
Hungling wasn’t takin’ any chances - with
native huts, an’ he’d brought down a
quantity of heavy timber. But it struck
me that for a man who figured on the
end of the world cornin’ so soon he was
buildin’ a mighty solid sort of house.
The funny part was when he got to
talkin’ you’d half feel he was right. The
way he had of bringin’ out those old
prophecies would make your blood creep,
him with his hollow, gratin’ voice an’
habit of kinda lookin’ through you while
he was speakin’.
“We sighted Reva after sunset an’
waited till next mornin’ to make the
passage. It was the first' atoll Hungling
had seen, an’ I fancy it gave him rather
a shock. Away to right an’ left the surf
was boomin’ down the reef an’ through
a flyin’ mist of spray you could see the
palms an’ the little brown huts pokin’
out between them—like a pancake restin’
on the water without no security at all.
“Soon as we’d dropped anchor old
Mehevi came aboard to let me know
what was doin’ on the island.’ Mehevi
was sort of hereditary king, besides bein’
a leadin’ church deacon an’ preacher.
He died a year or so ago, but he must’ve
been about sixty then. The Hunglings
was on deck when he scrambled over
the side, an’ seein’ a white woman for
the first time took him aback.
“ ‘Mehevi,’ I says, speakin’ in Samoan,
‘these papalangi are goin’ to live here
with you. See they get fixed up properly
and there’s no trouble . . . Mr. Hungling
is a preacher, and he’ll be wantin’ some
of you to help him with his new church.’
Maybe I should have said a bit more, but
it wasn’t my business, an’ from what I’d
seen of the Hunglings I didn’t feel over-
satisfied about the effect their visit was
goin’ to have on the Revans.
«W HAT a COU PI e °f extra
trips up to Tonga an’ a fortnight
in dock at Apia it was eight months
before I got to Reva again. I went ashore
as soon as we were inside the lagoon, an’
right there on the beach I knew Hungling
hadn’t cast his seed on stony ground.
The usual crowd of kids was hangin’
around, only now they was tricked out
in short pants and little cotton dresses.
“The first man I met in the village
was Mehevi, an’ God’s truth if he
hadn't got on an old cast-off blue frock-
coat same as station-masters wear. Now
Mehevi used to make as good coconut
beer as you’d get anywhere in the Islands,
an’ he’d always made a point of takin’
me along to try a glass.
“ ‘How’s the beer to-day?’ I asks after
we’d shook hands. But Mehevi looks at
me kind of pained.
“ ‘No more beer this time, Oti,’ he
says. ‘Finish all that bad business in
Reva.’
“Well, that was a proper knockout,
me knowin’ what the island was like
only a few months back, each man
brewin’ his own beer while every now
an’ again the whole lot would make
‘toddy’ an’ drink themselves blind for two
or three days on end. An’ you can take
it from me their morals was about on
the same level.
“The next thing I run into was
Hungling’s new house, smack in the
middle of the village an’ solid enough to
ride out a hurricane. The lower part was
wood, with a roof of pandanus leaves,
but as he’d forgotten to bring any
windows he’d fitted up a number of
shutters that could be closed at night.
“Hungling came out an’ invited me
inside. I reckon he was glad to see an-
other European after being alone so
long. He’d given up his heavy coat £n’
was wearin’ one of those shiny black
alpacas old gentlemen keep for gar-
denin’ during the summer.
“ ‘Yes,’ he said, when I asked him about
it, ‘we had a great deal of work makin’
them realise the necessity for clothin’.
We had to convince them it was wicked
to go about' almost naked. I really do
not think they were even conscious of
sin until Mrs. Hungling and I came
here ... A generation trained to heathen-
ism in everythin’ but name. But we are
succeedin’ slowly, praise be to the Lord,
Capt’n Otis.’
“I told him it' seemed to me he was
doin’ pretty well for a start.
“ ‘These people,’ he said, ‘could never
have come under the power of the Gospel
without in many cases passin’ through
the deep waters of spiritual experience.
Mehevi is an example. Terror of eternal
punishment, coupled to a hope that in
some way he ‘will be delivered now, tor-
tures and alternately soothes his dark-
ened mind. We wrestled with him for a
long time before he saw the wickedness
of his former life.’
“I suggested that accordin’ to their
own lights the Revans, except when they
got lit up on ‘toddy,’ hadn’t been mis-
behavin’ at all.
“ ‘The people which sat in darkness
saw great light,’ he quoted. ‘Before we
came it was not uncommon to find several
families livin’ and sleepin’ under one
roof, young and old, men and women,
herded together on mats without even a
screen to separate them. We have
been able to stop their abominable and
obscene dances and their no less per-
nicious habit of eatin’ the flesh of the
pig and the turtle, the clam and the cray-
fish, as are all clearly forbidden to man
in the book of Leviticus.’
“Now you’ve got to live on a coral
atoll to know what cuttin’ out a list like
that means —pig an’ turtle bein’ the only
fresh meat', besides chicken, they ever
has a chance of tastin’. It made me
realise more’n anythin’ else the power
Hungling must’ve got over the Revans.
“Maybe you’re wonderin’ how he done
it? It was those death-an’-damnation
prophecies, backed up by the trick he
had of makin’ you feel he’d got some
special inside knowledge. Oh, he be-
lieved them himself ; I’ll grant he wasn’t
no hypocrite. The sort of faith he had
was contagious, an’ he’d got the whole
island fairly worked up. You’d hardly
credit it, but they hadn’t planted any new
crops for the cornin’ year because he’d
told them they’d all be dead by then.
“After I left him I took a walk through
the village, an’ there wasn’t any gettin’
away from it but he’d turned the place
upside down. I’ll admit he’d done some
good, too, makin’ them clean their houses
and what not, but for all that it didn’t
seem natural to me. He’d squeezed the
joy o’ livin’ out of the people. As for
Hungling himself, life never had been
anythin’ but a preparation for the
blinkin’ grave. David may have danced
before the Lord, but I’m sure Hungling
never danced nowhere nor before any-
one.
UTHE Aloha was away six months, an’
* the rest of the story I had from
Mehevi when we got back to Reva.
“It seems after the schooner left
Hungling carried on stronger than ever
with his prophecies, an’ before long the
people was all prepared for the end to
come at midnight on June the second,
that bein’ the date his folk in America
had calculated.
“Now the Revans were worryin’ a good
deal about the kind of lives they’d led
before Hungling came an’ made them see
their wickedness. The truth of the
matter was they were gettin’ a bit hys-
terical. They’d started to hold little
meetin’s by themselves away in the
bush, and the more they talked the more
troubled they got. It seems they wanted
to find a means of expressin’ their re-
pentance, an’ they reckoned if they could
do somethin’ they didn’t want to do it
would be a sort of atonement. Least
that was how Mehevi put it to me after-
wards.
“What bothered them was findin’ any-
thin’ big or important enough until,
quite accidentally, Hungling himself sup-
plied what they were lookin’ for. That
was on the last Sunday in May, when he
took for his text the second an’ followin’
verses from the tenth chapter of Genesis.
It’s surprisin’ how small things will
sometimes change a man’s whole future.
If Hungling hadn’t picked on that bit
about offerin’ up Isaac as a burnt offer-
in’ he’d probably be alive to-day.
“The idea must’ve struck several of the
older men simultaneously, an’ it was only
natural that they should chew it over at
their next meetin’ in the bush.
“This notion of offerin’ up a human
sacrifice didn’t strike the Revans same
as it would you or me. An’ in choosin"


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DAt MOVC/
i
§.
a
Li
i)
13
\
-
»s??w
S 3
■±t.
PH
ja.Ss& a
ii mi imi
hi
Afa/ne is—
(DT&Uuro’s
Z/Aq UffiisAc/
IS -
-36 C
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - ■
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
e 'ALEMITE
these
parts
'JLLEMITE
CfVP£IA^I
FREAKS
©
Marks the important points in
a motor vehicle requiring lubri-
cation of the hightest order: From left to right below:
Wheel bearing, water pump, cylinders, universal joints,
spring and shackle. Above: gear box, clutch release
bearing, differential.
For each vital part, Alemite has developed a special
lubricant and, where needed, high pressure applica-
tion cleans bearings as Alemite lubricant is forced in.
Proper grade and consistency
of lubricant for the rear axle is
found in Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant, developed for the several
types of differential gears and
to meet temperature variations.
♦
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address: AI.M IT ... Chicago
Full particulars from Mr. Kenneth J. C.
Smith. Resident Manager
554 George St., Sydney, N. S. W.
FREAKS
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Etc!., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St.. Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED. 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust 4-33
SPARE
THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
the Hunglings they were certainly offerin’
the two persons whom they considered
their greatest benefactors an’ whose loss
they would feel most There was a kinda
logic, too, about the way they reasoned
it out, even down to the point when
Mehevi said that the Hunglings wouldn’t
feel so bad ■about it since they’d always
held the life to come was far an’ away
better than the present one an’ it was
only helpin’ them to get there quicker.
“Once they’d made up their minds the
rest was easy.
“Every man in the settlement was to
bring half a dozen dry palm fronds an’
pile them on the verandah as soon as the
Hunglings was inside for the night, while
Mehevi with three others was to drive
wedges under the doors an’ shutters, all
of which, it appeared, opened outwards.
The women were also to prepare native
ovens in the sand an' cook up everythin’
they’d been forbidden to eat. Six or
seven demijohns of ‘toddy’ were to be
collected an’ left to ferment; the whole
lot, food an’ drink together, was to be
throwq into the fire as a final gesture of
renunciation.
<<THE second of June came, an’ the vil-
* lage was in a state of terrible ex-
citement, what with church goin' on all
day an’ people dodgin’ in an’ out to see
to the ovens. Hungling kept prayin’ an’
exhortin’ them to prepare themselves right
on till it was dark, an’ he’d worn himself
out. Then he went' across to his own
house an’ shut the doors.
“That was the signal to start, bringin’
up the fronds, while Mehevi an’ the others
wedged the doors. Hungling called out
to know what they were doin’, an’ Mehevi
broke it to him as gently as possible, not
as how learnin’ you’re goin’ to be burnt
alive makes pleasant hearin’ whichever
way it’s put, an’ I believe Hungling car-
ried on something dreadful.
“It must’ve been a God-awful night.
The flames lit up the people siftin’ in a
great circle round the burnin’ house,
moanin’ an’ singin’ hymns, while inside
that unfortunate couple was slowly
roastin’ to death. Remember, the Revans
was also expectin’ to die, an’ they went
on expectin’ right up to midnight. They
must’ve lost count of the time, because
the next thing they knew was dawn
showin’ up in the east.
“They looked at each other stupidly
in the growing light, squattin’ there in a
ring about the smoulderin’ ashes of
Hungling’s house, an’ all at once it
struck them that they was still alive. The
same old sun as had crept up over the
rim of the lagoon for centuries was
creepin’ up again, lightin’ the same sand
an’ sea an’ surf.
“At first they were kinda numbed, but
after a bit the reaction set in an’ they
began laughin’ an’ shriekin’ at one an-
other the way a mob gets to actin’ when
it’s all worked up. It seems, too, they’d
clean forgotten the food in the ovens, but
now they went an’ fetched it an’ spread
it on the ground, waitin’ for Mehevi to
say what was to be done.
“Now I ain’t holdin’ it against nobody
for what happened next, but one of them
let out a whoop an’, dippin’ a coconut
shell into the nearest demijohn of ‘toddy,’
drains it at a draught . . . An’ there was
hetween fifty an’ sixty gallons altogether.
I reckon there never had been so much
to eat or drink at one time on the island.
Anyway, by nine o’clock that mornin’
there wasn’t a single man, woman or
child over ten sober in Reva, an’ I know
that for a fact, because I was back there
myself on June the third.”
CAPTAIN OTIS looked at his pas-
senger reflectively. “They was drunk
as owls when I got ashore, an’ the goin’s
on I saw were enough to make me
wonder what I’d lit on, even after
spendin’ five-an’-twenty years in the
Islands. I ain’t exaggeratin’ when I tell
you in one night the Revans slipped
back a century.”
“But wasn’t there an awful rumpus
later on—Government inquiry and all
that?” Barrington asked.
“Yes, there was an inquiry,” Otis
answered slowly. “But it was held in
Apia. They relied rather largely on my
evidence, an’ perhaps I. didn’t say as much
as I should, but, then, what good would
it have done anybody? Besides, I've
always had a kinda sneakin’ sympathy
for the Revans.”
"The Best-laid Schemes”. ..
EASY MONEY
BY GAVIN S. CASEY.
rHE conspirators were white and
tense. The time for arguing and
discussing methods was past. To-day
definite action had to be taken, the job
done, once and for all. Tony was par-
ticularly white and tense, for he was to
be the martyr, the hero sacrificed for a
noble cause.
thdr white S tenf ht “ P *£ K**
’ ’ s ; Halt a m ' le
ta b wS’T i
t‘ '*X 8 7 PP i n , h
SS T *,h 18 'm
&“ y : to the north they could
wet »t“ P ° £ bU ,7 a , xes ’, , B 7 “?. ey
*l r ? m f’ K 1 u u ?" y ’
hk ownfbS? timber, each thtnking
man°s evl 8 ° "
■’Well! better get de job done,” said
Tony at iast, bravely but a trifle shakily.
e sat on a Jog with his axe beside him
and started to remove one of his boots.
Mick examined the edge of his blade
carefufly, apparently finding its razor
J ar i™f ss fascinating but strangely in-
ant tl V h V n V ltskeennes j- Tony
f°V b ?£ l ° ff and commenced to un -
“Whot° > er .°, n - e, 5 a , , ~ . „
■dJSnSLI S in . em n
c re, j ‘ ° n ® s enough, am t it.
“T Lt Zl Mt m u gh u’ T ° ny -
Idonnow hichw °uU be best.
Mick knew that Tony s courage was
hT2fm a l ng ‘u 11 W ° U } d V ot be T C t 0
him think about it for long or he might
retuse to go ahead with the scheme.
doZiTmf,C ad ' , !f ed Mick callo " sly ’ “!*
ber a damn, anyway.
tet does not matter to you,” said
tony with quavering dignity. “Eet ees
not your toe.”
.f, y °th needed money rather des-
npratpiv" t u ßut J.° n , y needed it more des-
f y , an Mick. Dark thoughts of
occurred t T ans r° f . / bad
Mick’, tch ? ny ,rSt ’ f Ut U had , taken
to the nS e f loc J f uence T 0 Persuade him
had m P a int f t; 11 wa s e a sy, Mick
it h*"" 5 *
fSn o L? y ' n 1 hm a ° Ver ln 3
waiting An the money was
W’as to he ihe’io f i se ’ Sl .? ce Tonys
the laiger shaie, it was only
right that Tony
should suffer the
small amount 01.
pain that was
necessary.
“You do it
clumsy, an’ I
weel keel you,”
said Tony earn-
estly.
‘‘Aw, don’t be silly!” said Mick,
unab le to resist morbid humor, even
[hough it might destroy the plan. “I
know hc T, V §° about lt nl be aimin ’
at y f ai ? kle an J lst catch yer toes nicely
as tt y , a way.
ou no \ aml , at my ankde > sai d
Tony passionately. By damn! I cut
‘quiet except for
the distant throb of axes. Tony’s swarthy
face achieved the “'or °f parchment’.
Mick became impatient to get it over and
done with; Tony desperately anxious to
postpone the dreadful moment. Mick’s
acorn prevailed over Tony’s fear. They
found a log that would make a suitable
cho pping-block. The Italian struck an
a “i'ude with a fool upon the log. his
aj" Mtnta«
£ fo P e Te axe S' ‘ 8 8
Mick grinned wickedly. He suddenly
se i ze d Tony’s ankle with a muscular fist.
Simultaneously the head of his axe flashed
in the light, moving a bare twelve inches.
Tony looked down and saw the 51ood
spurt with drooping jaw and stiffened
limbs, he realised that it was his
own blood. He suddenly became
animated again and yelled. He wailed
like a banshee, with a high-pitched moan
that Mick was sure would be audible at
the main ca fifteen miles aw Then
h e flung himself on his back, clutching
the injured foot, rolling in his misery and
cur Sing his mate. Mick became con-
cerned
“Cut it out, damn y’ 1 ” he roared. “We
want blood on th’ log y’ were choppin’
yesterday. Pull yerself t’gether*”
“I am keeled!” wailed Tony. “I am
lose da blood. I want a doctor.”
It was all very unnerving for Mick,
He could get no help from Tony, who
was interested only in the amount of
blood he was losing and in the remote
P ossibility of a medical man being able
to save his life. Mick became flustered,
and viciously abused the Italian. But
after 3 while he got his own blade clean
and bright and Tony’s dark and gory,
and managed to splash a lavish supply
of hiood In suitable places. If Tony had
been half a man, he thought bitterly as he


mmmm
i r
SIMPLE • SAFE • INEXPENSIVE.
<$> v
w
ft*
Ur
Bank Draft is an order to pay
money. Issued by any branch
of a bank, it requires another branch
or Bank to pay a certain sum of
money to some specified person or
firm.
These Drafts provide a simple, safe,
and inexpensive method of remitting
money when payments have to be
made in another city, town or
country.
The Bank of New South Wales
issues Bank Drafts for any amount,
payable at any place where banking
facilities are available, in Australia
or abroad.
This service is provided for the
public generally and is not confined
to clients of the Bank.
BANK DRAFTS
C/Ocmv.
ISSUED BY THE
established ISIT
7y
210A.1936
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=
?
I
ft
N.
jEfkmm_.=
%■.
rx
t*X~T—B ifc
assisted him towards the cutters further
north, who numbered among them the
gang’s first-aid man, catching him un-
awares like that would not have been
necessary, and the whole job could have
been done in a more natural manner.
COON, however, Tony was in capable
hands, and his blood had ceased to
flow. Mick, making his way back to the
place where the “accident” had occurred,
wriggled his own toes as he walked. It
felt good to have toes that were firmly
attached to one’s feet: and were as full
of life as the more important parts of
one’s body. And it would be good to
be well paid for Tony’s ugly-looking toe,
which now lay dead and useless on the
ground. Mick whistled and set to work
with a will.
The rest of the day passed pleasantly,
but when he was collecting his gear to
tramp over to the line and board the
train for the main camp he received an
unpleasant shock. There, right where he
had taken them off, lay Tony’s boots,
whole and unmarked. Since men do
not chop wood in that sort of country
barefooted, this was far from right.
Something would have to be done
about it.
Mick picked up one of the clumsy
bluchers. He could remember just how
he had made the cut on Tony’s foot,
slicing the big toe sideways, just as it
wou ld be lopped by a man standing on
a j og WO rk. He carefully drove his
blade into the boot, across the toe, biting
beep into the sole. He rubbed it in dirt
and blood, and inspected the result. It
was satisfactory, so he tied the laces to-
gether, flung the boots across his shoulder
and set out.
At the line, a much-bandaged Tony
had recovered his wits, and was smoking
cigarettes and looking pleased with him-
se jf When Mick arrived the train was
on | y a quarter of a mile away, clanking
t ] OW n a g rade with the throttle closed
and lumps of live coal cascading through
t b e f un nel
„ B ht . boot Xony » said Mick,
. J ”
J he u y ,? lnt T h , 8 a n T 18 ,
He held up the slashed loolwear, and
derived pleasure from the startled look
that appeared on the Italians lace and
was replaced by one of rebel,
“By damn, no!” said Tony. “I won’
be wearin’ any boots for a long time, I
don’ think.”
The train grunted to a standstill along-
side them, and the super., large and con-
cerned, swung off on to the gravel.
“What’s this?” said the super. “What’s
this? Another accident?”
“Yairs,” said Mick. “Tony couldn’t
keep his toes out o’ th’ way.”
The super, looked at Mick and Tony
suspiciously. Long experience of “acci-
dents” had made him that way. Of
course, one could never prove anything.
But the super, was a faithful servant of
the company, and it annoyed him. Then
he noticed an unusual circumstance.
“What’s he got both his boots off for?”
he barked.
Mick grinned amiably. He had an
answer ready—perhaps a weak answer,
but no one could disprove its truth.
“Aw, I took ’em both off, jist t’ ease
him,” said Mick. “Here they are.”
“Well, let him put the good one on,”
said the super., just to show his authority,
and to register his disapproval. “He’s
no easier with the sound foot naked.”
Mick dropped the boots in front of
Tony, and the Italian reached for them
obediently enough. He curled up his left
leg, which carried a bandage-free foot,
and started to shove its toes into the
whole boot. Then his jaw dropped and
his face went pale—as pale almost as
when he had been awaiting the fall of
Mick’s axe.
Mick, too, turned pale. Pale with rage
and disgust.
But the super.’s eye gleamed with glee,
It was quite apparent that the incident
was going to turn the day into a happy
and satisfactory one for him.
For the unmarked boot into which
Tony had started to thrust his good foot
would not accept it. That which still lay
on the ground, axe-slashed and blood-
stained, was the left one, and this one,
sound of leather as the day it was
bought, belonged to the foot that had
now only four toes.
The Men Who Write Mining Prospectuses
TRUIHFUL JAMES
BY
G.E. MAYMAN.
EVERY Saturday Truthful James
patiently walked the two miles to the
Palace Hotel, made four pots spread
over the afternoon, and told the truth
about the O’Connell Consuls (known in
the Mining Registrar’s less grandiose
records as P.A. 11097) to anyone who
bothered to ask how things were looking.
Mick Scanlan, who runs the Palace,
remembers well what acute suspicions
Truthful James aroused in the early days
when he frankly informed the bar,
crowded with loud-voiced discoverers of
alleged Great Boulders, that, after three
months prospecting P.A. 11097, he
“couldn’t raise a color.”
For several days afterwards the Con-
suls was carefully tramped across by
every shrewd man in Sandville, taking
care to call on “old Jim” when he was
below so they could climb down and
save him “wastin’ time cornin’ up.”
Then it slowly dawned upon an aston-
ished community that old Jim was not
deliberately misleading them, and that
P.A. 11097 was, after all, little different
from their own leases. So, partly in
scorn, partly in sincerity, he was dubbed
“Truthful” James.
PERHAPS Sandville’s suspicions had
not been without foundation, for Jim’s
lease was next to the Sandville Gold
Development Company, around which
hung, for thirty years, the pleasing myth
of a “bright future.”
T. G. Broome was the man behind the
S.G.D. Co. When he first drew pay as a
sampler’s assistant ambition fired him to
become a successful leader of the indus-
try, so while his less perceptive col-
leagues attended the School of Mines he
applied himself to the Mining Act and its
amendments, with company law as a
sideline.
The “Joker” was T.G.’s first big float
(the old, never-failing gag: iron doors
over the shaft, first crushing brought up
in bags) and when he carried through
others equally brilliant he was admitted
to the admiring mining circle of the city.
But the S.G.D. Company was T.G.’s
pet. For years he kept it under his wing,
with a vague instinct it would some day
come good, and when boom times came
again he reset his jewel, and charmingly
presented its freshly-polished facets once
again to the world.
Admittedly T.G. found his job half-
done. For the Sandville Gold Develop-
ment really had a lode. It was a small
lode, and not a very r'ch one, with an
annoying habit of faulting just when an
enrichment looked about to come in, but
T.G., when he reorganised the company,
quickly recognised the possibilities. In
the new prospectus it was termed,
where it was first contacted, the “X”
Lode. Where it faulted and had been
picked up again a level or two lower, it
was named the “Sandville” Lode, and
when it faulted again and was traced
further south on a still lower level it
was known as the “Great Main” Lode.
With this vital
discovery of three
lodes the new
prospectus con-
fessed itself un-
able even to
approximate the
true value of the
mine, so the
almost unlimited
resources asked to instal a new plant
came rolling in from feverish “investors.’
TRUTHFUL JAMES took a neigh-
borly interest in the increased activi-
ties over the boundary, for, when his
account in Sandville ran too high, the
unimaginative storekeeper firmly insisted
upon his taking a job on the Develop-
ment Company until the account was
squared. This casual employment of a
few weeks each year generally took the
form of shovelling sand, so he watched,
with gathering dismay, the old twenty-
ton cyanide vats being uprooted, and
immense forty-ton vats taking their place
to treat the colossal tonnage T.G. had
found in the Sandville Gold Develop-
ment Co. (New), Ltd.
As Saturday afternoon brought round
its weekly pilgrimage Truthful James
plodded morosely along the dusty road
towards the Palace. His account was
getting higher, Harris the storekeeper
firmer; the vats were to be given a trial
run within a week, twice as many vats,
twice the size.
T. G. Broonie, recently arrived in
town, was installed at the hotel, await-
ing the new manager of the S.G.D. Co.
(New), Ltd. He smiled amiably as
Truthful James hove into view.
“Well, how are things out at the
Consuls?” he asked pleasantly.
Truthful James, warm and tired after
his long walk, glowered disrespectfully
at T.G.’s tie.
This was the cow at the back of those
new vats. He’d told him a few months
ago he was on nothing, the time the cow
had a couple of city friends with him
who had laughed loudly when beer had
been turned on for “the only honest man
in Sandville.” Made him look a fool, he
recalled —and now he had put in forty-
ton sand vats. He eyed T.G. with mount-
ing ire.
“Mister,” he said deliberately, “there
are some people I don’t care to discuss
me business with, but I’ll tell you this:
maybe them noo vats o’ yours won t be
seein’ me this year.” Then he turned to
Mick Scanlan, who was behind the bar.
With unfeigned regret he gloomily passed
across a pill bottle containing gold.
“ ’Alf an ounce, Mick. Maybe I’ll
have to cut if out over the week-end.
’Ad a big shock back on the lease."
Now there was that matter of busi-
ness which, if carried through, would
keep him off the vats.
“Back a bit later, Mick; goin’ t’ see
the bank manager,” and with another
baleful glance at T.G. he withdrew.
Truthful James was awaiting his turn
at the State battery with twenty tons of
eight-weight dirt. He had figured things
out as he walked in from the Consuls.
In six months he was due for the pen-
sion. If he managed to get a fiver’s ad-
vance on the crushing from the bank
manager, the storekeeper would hang on
for the balance. Perhaps would agree
to collect a bit off the pension each week
when it came.
And if things didn’t pan out that way
—well, there was that half-ounce of gold
to drink, and “to hell with the lot of
’em.”
He found the bank manager, who
roundly damned him for not coming dur-
ing business hours, and then agreed to
advance Harris a fiver on the Monday,
with an arrangement to get it back from


$
ill
.
mm
The World's Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LTD., has planted 163,000
acres with over 130,000,000 trees, and
built 250 miles of roads.
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBED
FOR FORESTRY
INVESTMENTS
£4,000,000
RESERVE FOR MAIN-
TENANCE AND REALI-
SATION (APPROX.)
£1,000,000
Mill sites have been selected and secured and
interna) transport system surveyed.
Initial Sulphate Pulp and Paper Making
Plant Secured.
While there is still an opportunity to partici-
pate in the Company’s investment issues of
£3O Investments, apply for full particulars to:
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
Head Office for Australia:
KEJIBLA ISUIGHING,
38 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
GROW
i ravel Through
CANADA or U.S.A
TO
ofli@
Coro natl ° n
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" . From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA” From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
the storekeeper if the crushing did not
pay battery expenses.
That gold he had given Mick was
causing Truthful James no little un-
easiness. It was his gold reserve,
jealously hidden from Harris’s clutches,
to be used only in the direst extremity.
He had come by it after much weari-
some dry-blowing, and now, brightened
by the bank manager’s promise, he re-
pented his undue recklessness, and re-
traced his steps to the bar.
“That gold, Mick, ’course it was only
a joke,” he remarked with a cough ; “give
us it back, will you? ’Ere’s me usual
two bob.”
Mick passed it back without complaint.
“That’s a relief, Jim. Thought you’d
gone . . . you know. Actin’ as if you’d
all the money in the world. In front of
F. G. Broome, too.”
Truthful James, unable to recall
sxactly what he had said in the stress of
the moment, grew further embarrassed.
“Mick,” he said humbly, “don’t let
this thing go any further. I mean about
me an’ the gold, an’ what I said t’ that
;ove Broome. The boys’ll think 1 was
. showin’ off.”
[N a quiet corner of the saloon, T. G.
I Broome drowsily regarded the rim of
his glass.
“I’ll repeat it again,” continued his
new manager. “The Great Main Lode
has sheered away. No doubt we’ll pick
it up again lower down. That is, if it
keeps straight and stays in our boun-
dary. If it kicks over to the right it' lies
in the lease next to us. Old chap called
O’ConnelFs got it.
“Of course, losing the Great Main
Lode as it is is no loss at all. Only good
looking mullock, anyhow. But”—he
lowered his voice to an impressive whis-
per—“there looked like a damn’ good
enrichment just about to come in.”
T.G. stifled a yawn. “Yes,” - he said;
“those enrichments are always just
about to come in. In thirty years they
never have. Of course,” he brightened,
“incorporate the possibility in the report
I’ll take back for the press. You know
the sort of thing the public want.
‘Diesels from England, ball-mills from
Germany, such and such from America
and France, etc.’ Of course, regret at
some length the usual hold-ups in put-
ting in a new plant . . . I’ll run through
it with you later.”
He glanced over the bar and saw
Truthful James pocketing the gold Mick
Scanlan had returned.
“Yes,” he remarked absently, “it
would be funny if something did come
in down there.”
He beckoned to Mick to refill the
glasses.
“That fellow O’Connell,” he said
thoughtfully—“rather lavish for a pros-
pector, eh, buying drinks with gold?”
Mick remembered his promise and
waved a deprecating hand.
“He was only jokin’, Mr. Broome.
I gave it back to him. I think he wants
us to forget about it. Afraid the boys
might think he’d been readin’ yarns
about the goldfields and tryin’ to im-
press strangers.”
“Oh, and when did he suggest this?”
asked T.G. casually.
“Just now . . . after he’d seen the
bank manager.”
“Bank manager. By the way, notice
the gold?”
“Just specked stuff; didn’t see it
much.”
“Not dollied from specimens, eh?”
“Rich specimens in the Consuls?”
Mick saw the humor in the suggestion.
“Mister Broome,” he said earnestly,
“I’ve known Truthful James these thirty
years, and truthful he is. If he’d struck
anything he’d come up and say, ‘Yes,
things is good on the Consuls; I’ve
struck somethin’.’ ” Mick’s voice died
away, his expression slowly changed and
he looked blankly at T.G. “Dammit,
what was it he said to you?”
T.G. hurriedly looked at his watch.
“Excuse me, expecting some money
wired through, have to see the bank.”
THE manager was at his ease on the
verandah, deep in Joseph Conrad. In
middle-age he had discovered his true
vocation was the sea, and spent his week-
ends brooding over his parents’ lack of
perception and nourishing his newly-
discovered passion on suitable literature.
“Mr. Marshall, is it not?” began T.G.
breezily. “Perhaps you know me, T. G.
Broome?”
The manager nodded coldly. He once
had had shares in T.G.’s “Moonshine
Treasure.”
“Just called in to see you about an
old prospector, O’Connell. The Develop-
ment Company have been thinking of
taking over his lease —merely want the
land to run their slimes on to. I
believe he’s just seen you about some-
thing?”
“O’Connell?” said Marshall. “Oh,
yes, he came to me with a small pro-
position.”
“Yes, yes,” said T.G. quickly. “What
was it?”
Marshall polished his glasses and
thought of his interrupted Conrad. He
cleared his throat.
“Mr. . . . er . . . Broome,” he began
stiffly, “please do not misunderstand me
when I say I must speak to you as an
official of that institution which I have
the privilege to represent upon these gold-
fields. Mr. O’Connell is a client of long
standing, and, as a businessman, you
are aware that what takes place between
a bank manager and his bank’s client is
always in the strictest confidence. I
trust, therefore, you see my position, and
I suggest that further discussion is use-
less. Er . . . I might add, if your people
go on with the transaction they con-
template and Mr. O’Connell desires it, I
am quite prepared to act for that gentle-
man —only, to be frank with you, to
obtain the most advantageous terms;
myself, I think he deserves them.”
TG. returned to the Palace, dug more
• information from Mick Scanlan,
then joined Hawkins, his mine manager.
“O’Connell comes in with free gold,”
he began dreamily. “Says he’ll never
have to work off another store account.
Sees the bank manager and comes straight
back here to hush things up —Marshall’s
hand there, he tried to choke me off:
maybe wants men of his own to look it
over. He practically told me he and
O’Connell will stick out for a high figure
if the Development want it.
“O’Connell’s been working the Consuls
off and on, with sundry mates, for nearly
thirty years. Lot of work must have
been done down there. He can’t be
down as deep as the Great Main Lode
on the Development, but maybe the fault
slung the lode up, not down, and he’s
run into that enrichment.”
“It is possible,” consented Hawkins.
“Why not ask for an option? No harm
done, and we might find out how far he
went with Marshall.”
“I will. Dig him out. Fire a few
into him and bring him here.”
Truthful James had cut out his two
shillings. He enjoyed the rare treat of
having his beer bought by a stranger
whose self-confessed motive was merely
company, and he had no compunction
about meeting T. G. Broome. In fact,
he loudly insisted he meet Broome when
Hawkins casually brought in the name.
“You see, Mister Broome,” he said
confidentially, clutching the other’s coat
lapels when the three were together.
“You an’ me should be good frens.
Speshully as my lease is nex’ th’ Develop-
ment. Got a lot in common, you an’ me.
I don’t mind them forty-ton vats, now.
Tell you what, put in a dozen more . . .
s’all right with me.”
“I think I see what you’re driving at,
O’Connell,” said T.G. slowly, prising
James off his coat. “You suggest, per-
haps, that a bigger plant may soon be
needed. Now, let’s talk business. I
want an option over the Consuls.”
Truthful James staggered back and
groped for a chair, completely sobered.
“Option over th’ Consuls? Man, y’re
mad,” he cried in a dazed voice.
“O’Connell, don’t bluff,” answered
T.G. sharply. “You’ll never get us to
purchase outright. Say for six months.
Twenty pounds down and two hundred
if we exercise it. Damn’ good terms,
O’Connell. How about it?”
Truthful James looked at the roof,
slowly gathering his wits, and then he
leered cunningly at T.G.
“I’ll tell you why you want my
lease,” he replied with native shrewdness.
“You’ve found somethin’ in your boun-
dary, somethin’ pretty good, an’ it’s run
into the Consuls. Maybe rich shoots
’ave come into that lode o’ yours that
was ’eadin’ my way, heh? Somethin’
good enough t’ want me to get out.
Mister Broome, I’m an old man, but I
ain’t no fool. Tell me if that ain’t right.”
T.G. shot a triumphant glance at the
grinning Hawkins.
“Mr. O’Connell, coming from you, we
know it’s the truth. Of course,” added
T.G. quickly, “I’ll have to give it a
good look over. Send my men across
next week. Sign things up then. I’m
a businessman; don’t run into things
with my eyes closed. Er, not signed up
with anyone else, are you?”
Truthful James slowly shook his head.
“This thing is goin’ mighty fast for
me. I’ll talk it over with ’Arris the
storekeeper and Mr. Marshall at the
bank—they was sorta backin’ me.
’Course, I don’t suppose you meant that
two hundred, but Mr. Marshall and
’Arris an’ me could work out a price
that’d be fair.”
T.G. jumped to his feet.
“Mr. O’Connell, this thing is between
you and me. Marshall and Harris are
not in it. Come, we are men of our
word, and your reputation in Sandville
is good enough for me. We’ll see the
Mining Registrar immediately ; he works
back every week-end. Verify the block,
sign all contracts and transfers, have the
whole matter fixed before sundown.
Two hundred was just my joke. Shall
we say four hundred?”
Truthful James was drunk again, in-
toxicated with the unreality of the cir-
cumstances into which he had been
thrust.
“Mister Broome, men ’ave ’ad options
on the Consuls before. Gave me a few
quid deposit and promised me a fortune,
but always gave me back the lease. I’m
just an honest old prospector that doesn’t
know much about business, but,” he
finished slowly, emphasising every word,
“as-you know for sure that th’ gold is
there, I want cash and no option.”
“Well, O’Connell,” replied T.G. with
like sincerity, “as you know for sure the
gold .is there, you know what the lease
is worth. How much?”
“A thousand pounds, cash,” croaked
Truthful James in an unrecognisable
voice, and looked round to see who had
spoken.
T.G. wiped his brow. “You honest
men drive a hard bargain. Come on,
before Marshall wants to protect your
interest.”
TG. BROOME now regards the affair
• only as an amusing incident. He
has recently floated P.A. 11097.
The Sandville Gold Development Co.
(New), Ltd., South Extended, is, vide the
prospectus, a “Big Thing, appealing to
investors of vision and imagination. A
separate plant is being installed to
treat the rich shoots which are just
about to come into the Great Main
Lode. Diesels from England, mills
from Germany, winders from America,
roasters from France, etc., etc.” It has a
Russian steel expert, an American effi-
ciency expert, a water expert from Egypt,
while a pleasing welter of other nationali-
ties carry on as expert cogs making up
that vast personal machine which has
been set moving to produce gold from
the O’Connell Consuls.
As T.G. frankly points out, the job
calls for experts.
And Truthful James occupies a chair
in the directors’ room, a bewildered old
man who plucks at a stiff’ collar and
wonders what it is all about.


Experienced Tractor Farmers Everywhere
Prefer TEXACO MOTOR OIL
After years of experience, these
four well-known and highly success-
ful tractor-farmers have definitely
proved that the only way to keep un-
necessary repair costs down to a
minimum—to cut out wasteful tie-
up periods —and to ensure maxi-
mum operating efficiency—is to use
Texaco Motor Oil.
Take no risks this season! Safe-
guard success by using Texaco
Motor Oil in your tractor , too!
m
m
m
wsmam
“Texaco Motor Oils
have many outstanding
qualities over ordinary
oils. We have reduced
tie-up periods to a
minimumsays J-
Simp sons Grenfell,
“Machinery is a very
costly item. We have
saved considerable
expense by using
Texaco Motor Oil,”
says John J. Fowler
& Sons ltd., Gren-
fell, jv.s.r.
“Because I demand
the utmost out of
my equipment / use
Texaco products ex-
clusively,” says E. G.
Stone, Woodstock,
Vic.
“When machinehas
been taken down,
it has been in
much better order
since using Texaco
Motor Oil,” says
Ray Job, Parkes,
N.S.W. (10 years’
experience).
TEXACO MOTOR. OIL
1, T. 276
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany
T.A.: The rhymeless end-line spoils it....
P.M.: Not enough in it J.W.: Your aged
farmer strikes us as a singularly unreal person.
....L.M.8.: A mere hash-up of stale images
in limping numbers K.8.D.: After all, there
can’t be many women who cook as badly as
you rhyme G.S.: It doesn’t appeal
A.G.8.: It took too long to tell tellingly
M.K.8.: Your best is quite good. But in the
theme of “A Lost Art” W. T. Goodge has
been before y0u.... J.F.R.: You have quite a
good grip of rhyme, but the matter is stodgy
and dull A.G.E.: “Banjo” Paterson and
water —a lot too much water... .L.R.8.: Trite
or petulant reflections in fair-to-middling
iambics H.M.: If “The Dance at Hogan’s
Mill” needs 140 lines to do it justice, we fear
it must go unsung... .Bellerive: Well, if it isn’t
Brady, we can’t place him:
On ships aud tars
Of tlie splashing sea,
Where the waves roll high
And the winds blow free,
Verse and prose did
Flow from he’s pen,
A writer who appealed
To young and old men.
E.R.: English magazine stuff J.W.:
"Mug” skit is crude, but the other is getting
closer C.J.R.: The plot is thin, though the
telling is good—try something meatier. No,
indifferent punctuation won’t knock a good
yam out K.A.: Nicely-done little essay more
suitable for magazine section of a daily
K.E.: Not up to your previous effort—you
left the yarn in the air... .J.G.: We don’t like
tales salted with Americanisms H. de B.:
Nothing in the story R.R.: Napoleonic
chit-chat hasn’t enough humor; waited for the
snap-ending to the other, but it didn t come.
V.C.: Excellent style, but yarn not quite
convincing Oloc: Train conversation doesn't
ring true Z.V.W.: Bucolic come-on who
buys mine shares is an old friend H. 8.:
American dope-running yarn caught in a literary
"snow”-drift G.C.R.: That melodrama is
bad enough for Hollywood Dinglebell:
Afraid writing isn’t your forte G.U.T.: Plot
too creaky! J.D.L.: That humorous touch
should go well with a decent plot M.H.:
Incident too slight G.E.M.: “Realities,”
though finely done, savors too much of un-
realities... .F. 8.: Kernel of that plot is as
hard to find as a politician during recess
T.L.C.: Story gives the impression that you
thought it out as you went along.. . .T.W.N.:
Domestic dust-up doesn’t ring the be 1 1.....
W. 8.: Drags along like a royal commission.
A.J.M.: You’re still improving; try to get
off the beaten track D.S.G.: “Spring Idyll”
stillborn.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.W.: Looks like a stray leaf from an in-
fant’s copy-b00k... . R.S.M.: Jest is on its last
legs, apd the sketch almost gave us the horrors.
. ...T.M.: No space for such, even if we had
1000 pages per week to fi11... .C.D.: You're
rather late in the day with the Rhineland
cartoon... .G.F.: Suspect that you saw
the subject in a very heavy fog L.H.: That
class of paper will always give poor results;
get something suitable... .J.D.: The first artis-
tic contribution from Tennant Creek; unfortu-
nately, it was below the mark W.T.:
Unk White beat you to it months ago H.R.:
Nicely-printed labels and signposts; the rest is
awful J.C.L.; Sorry, can’t endorse those
high opinions.. . .C.H.A.: What is it?....
P. 8.: Three pairs of wooden heads
and three stale gags 0.D.: Perspective is
something you have yet to learn about....
N.K.: One arm appears to sprout from the
middle of the back... .D.J.T.: A crude illustra-
tion of a humorless backyard barney N.C.:
You seem to regard the signature as more
important than the drawing... .E.W.: Scratch
away to your heart’s content, but keep the
results to yourself... .A.N.R.: Quite promising
for a first attempt J.P.L.: You forgot the
gentleman’s ears... .C.S.: Fair likenesses, but
the subject is hardly big enough R.H.H.:
No market for fashionplate illustration of a
hackneyed he-she gag....A.V.: It took us a
long time to distinguish the swaggie from his
swag L.8.F.: Gags must have more punch
in them T.D.W.: It might be a Pom. or a
Peke. he’s shearing; it’s not a sheep... .5.8. C.:
Awarded this week’s dunce’s-cap.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“O.B.”: Monthly gold production of
the Rand mines is now nearly, four times
as much as a quarter’s production of the
Commonwealth and 14 times as much
as the monthly output of Westralia. Two
mines. Crown and Randfontein, alone
treat over 350,000 tons a month each,
seven times as much ore as is milled
monthly by Lake View and Wiluna. An-
other Rand mine puts through 200,000
tons a month, 13 between 100,000 and
190,000 tons and nine over 75,000 tons.
* :K * *
“Der Jong”: John Hays Hammond,
whose death is reported in the U.S.A.
(he was 81), might have helped to change
South African history if the luck had
been his way. A mining engineer, he
was the leader of the American element
on the Rand when the Uitlanders did
their best to persuade Kruger to grant
them a limited franchise. With Afri-
kanders Fitzpatrick and Farrar and
the bulk of the German-Jew element
he was strongly opposed to handing over
the Transvaal to British control. What
these men wanted was a continuance of
the Dutch republic, with Schalk Burger
or Joubert replacing Kruger ; and had
Kruger gone the republic would be in
existence to-day. Hammond and his
fellows of the Uitlander committee did
not engineer the farcical Jameson Raid,
but most of them were sentenced to
death, being released after paying huge
fines.
“Philistine” : I suppose Chesterton had
become an institution in the English
literary world, second only to G. B. Shaw
(18 years his senior), but to describe him
as “England’s greatest writer” (“S. M.
Herald,” 16/6/’36) is surely an abuse of
language. How many people, even in
England, read and appreciated Chester-
ton, compared with those who have
revelled in Hardy, Kipling, Wells, Gals-
worthy, Bennett and a dozen others of
our generation? And how many essay-
ists have there been, from Hazlitt down
to Stevenson, with whom posterity is
hardly likely to rank him? For the
last 20 years I have been trying to
read Chesterton’s weekly letter in the
“Illustrated London News,” and it be-
came an increasingly laborious task. The
disquisition always seemed to begin any-
where and finish nowhere, a sort of irri-
tating exercise in dialectics, an unsatis-
fying blending of platitudes and para-
doxes.
“El V.” on a man of weight:
I saw Chesterton once. It was in a narrow
lane near Beaconslield. 1 was in a very fast car
driven by one of the world’s speediest drivers.
We were not standing on the order of our
going when we came round a corner nearly on
lop of what looked like a section of the Great
Wail of China, with moss growing on top of it.
This phenomenon was moving steadily, but tar
from hastilv, down the centre of the lane, and
it didn’t hurry a bit as we approached with
a roar. My driver missed it by inches, per-
force spraying it with mud and taking a large
piece of someone else’s rhododendron bush.
As I looked back I recognised our near-victim.
It was Chesterton, and he seemed not to have
mitigated his pace by a heartbeat. He had a
far-away look on his countenance, as of one to
whom fast cars are not philosophic realities.
* * * *
“Sangaree”: Some people talk of Gov-
ernment control of the manufacture and
sale of weapons of warfare as if it were
a new idea, instead of the revival of a
very old one. As long ago as a.d. 539
the Emperor Justinian issued a decree
from which this is an extract:
Desiring to prevent men from killing
each other, we have thought it proper to
. decree that no private person shall engage
in the manufacture of weapons, and that
only those shall be authorised to do so
who arc employed in the public arsenals,
and also that manufacturers of arms
should not sell them to any private indi-
vidual.
A list of 13 “weapons” was enumerated,
concluding with the warning that “only
small knives which no one uses in fight-
ing shall be allowed to be made and sold
by private persons.”
“S.”: One indirect result of “sanctions”
is that British naval writers are discussing
the possible abandonment of Mediter-
ranean control, which Britain has had
for 232 years. It will mean nothing, one
gentleman alleges, since there is an alter-
native Cape route which can be protected
from the naval station at Simonstown,
made immensely stronger. Actually it
will involve, among other things, the sacri-
fice of Malta and of Britain’s predominant
position in Egypt and Palestine, together
with loss of prestige in every part of the
world. If Baldwin doesn’t buck up or
get out, the historians may yet bracket
him with Lord North. He also was an
amiable character who could make a
good speech.
* * * *
“Gravel Rash”: As one much ex-
posed to Rugby football in North
Queensland once upon a time I can sym-
pathise with the complaining English-
men, who hobbled back from the land of
rum and sugar last week. Things may
have changed since my time, but on the
Townsville ground of those days players
used to pray to be dumped on the con-
crete pitch in the middle of the ground
rather than on the “grass!” The Eng-
lishmen may shake hands with each
other that they will not play at Charters
Towers. In the days of which I write
several ironstone-quartz outcrops ran
across the Towers ground, and careful
Towers players, after washing their
wounds, often panned the dirty water for
a color or even a speck. At least, that
is what visiting players used to say.
“Viator”: The English footballers
have nothing much to grouse about in
having to travel long distances by train.
Australia is somewhat larger than the bit
of the North Country where their game
is played at home, and Australian foot-
ballers and cricketers have to tackle long
journeys also every season. In South
Africa the Wallabies must have covered
some thousands of miles,in their long
hops from Cape Town to Bulawayo,
with numerous divergences in between,
and the cricketers last season had just the
same experience.
* * * *
“Queen’s”: Looks as if England has
a potential Olympic champion in Brown,
a Cambridge youth who carried off the
100, quarter and half at the annual clash
between the Light Blues and the Ama-
teur Athletic Association. He equalled
the British record with 9 7-10 sec. for the
100, and cut out the quarter in 49 1-lOsec.
and the half in Imin. 56sec. Our Austra-
lian Horsfall was second in the 220 and
the long jump.


Short Story
e Writing
tyree Lance
( Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School oS Journalism
110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Lloxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
Rust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, exp. retail drapery buyer, London and
Australia, over 20 years’ exp. M.L. indenting,
going to London, seeks position on salary or
commission. Refs. —1976.
Young man (22), N.S.W., with intermediate
certificate, studying accountancy, wants position
as station book-keeper.—l9so.
Proved successful Mallee farmer, with two
teams, two sets of complete plant and labor,
wishes to buy cleared land or farm up to 1750
acres at £1 10s. an acre, but will consider
smaller area. Substantial deposit.—l96l.
English herdsman, war service, exp. in pedi-
gree stock, showing, rationing, recording, breed-
ing and rearing for high milk yields, Short-
horns, Ayrshires, 10 years’ exp. milking
machines, seeks position.—2oo7.
To buy The Golden Shanty. —l9sB.
To buy, in good order and condition, Ayl-
ward’s Folly and Oswald Cray, by Mrs. H.
Wood, in blue covers for preference.—2oo2.
To get in touch with original (1876) pupils
of Coorparoo school, which is holding its
diamond jubilee shortly. (To W. L. Nicklin,
Shakespeare-street, Coorparoo, Brisbane.)
Information Sought.
(1) How old was Syd Gregory when he first
went with an Australian XI to England? (2)
What were his first Test scores in England
and in Australia? (3) His record in all first-
class cricket, also Tests and Sheffield Shield?
1911.
(1) Twenty years of age. (2) At Lord’s
(Eng.), July 21, 1890, he scored 0 and 9; at
Adelaide, March, 1892, he went for 3 and 7.
(3) In all first-class matches (from Wisden’s):
A'ot Highest Total
Innings. Out. Score.. Runs. Average.
592 55 201 15,303 28.49
Tests v. Eng.: 92 7 201 2,193 25.80
T. v. S. Africa: 8 0 89 370 11.12
Sheffield Shield: 87 4 201 3,626 43.68
X X X *
(1) Names of players who had most innings
with each Australian XI to England ? (2)
Players who took part in every match on these
tours ? —1920.
(1) First Australian XI, W. L. Murdoch
(62); second, W. L. Murdoch (60); third, Mur-
doch and H. Massie (61 each); fourth, P. S.
McDonnell (54); fifth, S. P. Jones and H. J.
Scott (66 each); sixth, H. Trott (65); seventh,
H. Trott and J. J. Lyons (65 each); eighth,
H. Trott and W. Bruce (61 each); ninth, H.
Trott (54); tenth, J. Darling (56); eleventh,
R. Duff (58); twelfth, J. Darling (53); thir-
teenth, W. Bardsley (51); fourteenth, W. Bards-
ley (53); fifteenth, W. Bardsley and T. Andrews
(44 each); sixteenth, J. Taylor (43); seventeenth,
D. Bradman (38); eighteenth, W. Brown (40).
(2) Murdoch, McDonnell, G. Bonnor, T.
Groube and G. Palmer in the second Australian
XI; McDonnell, Scott, G. Giffen, A. Banner-
man and Bonnor in the fourth; J. J. Ferris in
the sixth ; H. Trott and W. Bruce in the eighth';
and Bardsley in the fourteenth.
4c X 4= 4=
In a golf stroke competition A plays B’s
ball. Referring to stroke rule 8, A takes the
penalty of two strokes and then plays his own
ball. What does B do ? Does he play his ball
from where it lies after A’s playing it, or does
he go back and drop a ball as near as pos-
sible to the place from which A played it?
—1832.
B should drop his ball as near as possible
to the spot from which A played it in error and
then play his own shot. Should the mistake
made by A occur on the putting-green B may
place his ball instead of dropping it.
%
For what use are the holes in the centre
of a four-handed cribbage board ? —1904.
For scoring the number of games won by
each side.
X * 4= 4=
Actual strength of the air forces of Great
Britain, Germany, Italy, Japan, France and
Australia ? —1535.
The actual strength of their air forces, as
regards first-line aircraft, is a secret closely
guarded by most of the Great Powers, and
therefore it is impossible to state with accuracy
what the strengths of the various nations are.
It is usual, however, for each nation to an-
nounce its development programme. The
announced expansion programmes of the
countries mentioned are as under, total in-
clusive figures being shown in all cases: Great
Britain 2722, Germany 2000 (but dependent on
the expansion of the U.S.S.R. air force), Italy
1800, Japan 2406, France not known but
thought to be 2000. The actual strength of
the R.A.A.F. in first-line aircraft is not
i disclosed, but the development programme
officially announced aims at a first-line strength
of 96 by June, 1937.
4= X X X
Value of some of the principal trade items of
U. origin imported into the Common-
wealth during the year ended June 30, 1935 ?
‘ —1856.
Unmanufactured tobacco £1,242,488, kerosene
£158,143, mineral lubricating oil £623,985,
petroleum and shale spirit £738,062, motor
chassis and parts £1,976,176, films £267,930,
sausage casings £193,879 and undressed timber
£217,150. Values are in British currency.
4: X * 4=
(1) Are staghorns and elkhorns peculiar to
Australia ? (2) If not, from -what country were
they introduced ? (3) Manner of their propa-
gation in a natural state ? (4) Where are they
to be found in N.S.W. ? —lB6O.
(1) and (2) Certain species are peculiar to
Australia, particularly Platycerium grande and
Platycerium alcicorne, staghorn and elkhorn
respectively. Other species come from Java,
Malay Peninsula, East Indies, West Africa and
other countries. (3) They are propagated by
spores (the yellow pollen-like substance found
under many of the leaves), which germinate
under the right conditions. They also propa-
gate from what might be called suckers- —
young plants growing on the old ones. (4)
Right along the coastal belt, but principally
north from Sydney.
* x * *
What kind of whales are those that go up
north along the Q. coast from May to July
and go south again about October ? Size and
approximate weight, and have they a market
value ? —1724.
They are principally humpbacks, averaging
from 40ft. to 45ft. in length. They yield about
38 to 40 barrels of oil, valued at about £2OO.
Normally they are black on the back, and the
under surface is white mottled with black.
The question of the advisability of the cap-
ture of these whales in Australian waters is a
vexed one. If taken on their way north they
will be killed before they have an opportunity
to breed —at a time, in other words, when their
lives are most valuable for the propagation of
the race —and if taken when returning to Ant-
arctic waters after breeding the calves will
lack the protection and guidance of the
mothers, and may fall a more ready prey to
their enemies. ,
* x * *
(1) I am anxious to improve my adding.
Any special practices or any work on this
subject ? (2) What shorthand would you
advise a beginner to take up ?—1937.
(1) No royal road to proficiency. Practise
long tots, checking by adding first from top
to "bottom, then from bottom to top. Long
tots for this purpose are obtainable from edu-
cational booksellers. (2) Pitman’s.
x x * *
I have noticed appearing on fibre and card-
board containers a certificate that the board of
which the box is made has a resistance of
so many pounds, according to the “Mullen’s
test.” What is this test, and how , is it car-
ried out ? —1767.
The Mullen tester is used to determine the
bursting strength of paper and boards. The
paper is clamped against a rubber diaphragm
through which the pressure is transmitted to a
circular piece of paper, approximately lin. in
diameter. (A large size is made for testing
wrapping-paper and boards.) The rubber dia-
phragm encloses a chamber which is filled with
glycerine, and this is forced upward, creating
a pressure which expands the rubber. The
paper stretched across the orifice opposes the
expansion, and the pressure under which the
paper is burst is recorded on a pressure gauge
in terms of pounds per square inch. To be
of the greatest use, the bursting-strength test
must be expressed in terms of the weight of
the sample, and when thus expressed it is called
the strength ratio or strength factor.
x x x x
(1) Is the iron or steel bridge built in 1871
over the Yass River, at Yass, N.S.W., still in
existence ? If not, when was it replaced ? (2)
Is it correct that it was the first iron or steel
bridge to be erected in N.S.W. ? (3) Who
supervised its construction ? —1504.
(1) It is still in existence. (2) No. Iron
bridges constructed over the Hunter River at
East and West Maitland in 1867 and 1869
are still in existence, as well as the iron portion
of the bridge over the Murrumbidgee River at
Gundagai erected in 1867. (3) Not on record.
*l*
Some particulars of Kenya Colony ? —1954.
Kenya is a British colony and protectorate
in East Africa, having a coastline of about 600
miles on the Indian Ocean. The area is 225,100
sq. m. and the population 3,049,000, of whom
16,800 are Europeans. It is bordered by Abys-
sinia, Italian Somaliland, Tanganyika and the
Sudan, and contains a number of rivers and
lakes, as well as some very mountainous
country. Nairobi is the capital, and Mombasa
the largest town, the latter being an important
seaport, as is also Kilindini. Another port is
Kisumu, on Lake Victoria. The soil is on the
whole fertile, cotton, coffee, rubber, maize and
other tropical products being grown, and there
are also sheep and ostrich farms.
What are the duties and functions of the
British Home Office ? —1948.
A department of the British Government, it
is headed by, the Secretary of State, who is in
close touch with the sovereign, who issues
through him all pardons and proclamations;
one of the Secretary’s duties also is to be in
attendance when a possible heir to the throne
is born. The office was created in 1782. The
department is responsible for the administra-
tion of justice and the control of the police,
the inspection of factories and mines and the
supervision of all matters affecting licensing and
burials, as well as the regulation of prisons and
aliens.
X X x *
How to calculate the cubic content of a petrol
tank, oval shaped at ends ; long diameter of
oval 15 in.; short diameter 10//;.; length of
tank 42 in. ? —1986.
Answer depends on exact nature of the oval,
which may or may not be a true ellipse. A
rule-of-thumb method in such cases is to take
the area of a circle of the longer diameter;
subtract from this the area of a circle of the
shorter diameter; add half the difference to
the area of a circle of the shorter diameter.
This gives, roughly, the area of the end. Mul-
tiply by length. The process in this case gives
a capacity of 5360 cub. in.—roughly 3 1-10
cubic feet.
* * * *
Who wrote the following and English trans-
lation: “La carriere des let ties est plus epineuse
cpie cede de la fortune. Si vous avez le mal-
heur d’etre mediocre, voila des remords pour
la vie; si vous reussiez, voila des ennemis;
vous marcliez sur le bord d’un abime entre le
mepris el la haine’* ? —1987.
It is by Voltaire: “The career of letters is
thornier than that of fortune. If you have
the misfortune to be only middling you become
disappointed for life; if you succeed you
find enemies. You walk on the edge of an
abyss between neglect and hatred.”
* * X 4=
Why was Lawrence of Arabia called T. E.
Sliaw ? A few brief biographical details ?
1863.
Thomas Edward Lawrence, soldier and ex-
plorer, was born at Tremadoc, in. North Wales,
August 15, 1888, the son of Thomas Lawrence,
a landowner of some means. He was educated
at Oxford High School and Oxford Univer-
sity. He went to Syria in 1910, where until
1914 he was associated with the British
Museum excavations; in 1914, after being
rejected for active service, he joined the
Cairo branch of the British Secret Service, and.
was sent to Arabia, where his knowledge of
Arab life was invaluable. He organised Arab
tribes, and led them in many encounters with
the Turks. He was the chief Arab repre-
sentative at the 1919 Peace Conference, and
in 1922-23 acted as adviser to the Colonial
Office. Lawrence disliked the publicity which
his exploits brought upon him, and enlisted
in the Air Force, first as Private Ross, and
later, in 1922, as T. E. Shaw, to which he
legally changed his name by deed poll in 1927.
He died May, 1935. He wrote an account of
his adventures in The Seven Pillars of Wisdom
and Revolt in the Desert, in addition to pub-
lishing a prose translation of the Odyssey and
two books on archaeological subjects.
* * *
Is leprosy hereditary and contagious ? —1862.
It is caused by a bacillus or rod-shaped
germ similar to that of tuberculosis, and is
contagious but not hereditary. Besides being
transmitted by direct contact, leprosy infection
may be spread by towels, clothing, feeding
utensils, etc., and there is little doubt that it
is conveyed by the bites of insects, mosquitoes
and the like. Strict segregation of patients is
essential.
x x x x
Can you give me a cure for hives ? What
is the cause ? —1737.
Urticaria, or hives, is an inflammatory affec-
tion of the skin characterised by irritating
weals of varying size. In all cases the cause
must be sought out and remedied —extremes of
temperature, acid diet, irritants, etc., may pre-
cipitate, the trouble; in certain subjects the
initial eruption begins after eating tomatoes,
strawberries, shellfish and the like. The sensi-
tive skin demands protection from chiff. Cur-
tail condiments and heating foods, avoid ex-
tremes in the daily routine, and indulge in a
warm soda bath at night. Dab equal parts
liquid witch-hazel and calamine lotion over
affected parts for relief. Calcium or lime salts
may be taken internally if thin-blooded or
anaemic. Limewater is of service; otherwise
calcium lactate (10 grains) in tablet form thrice
daily after meals.
*i»
Is it possible to obtain beneficial treatment
for rheumatoid arthritis ? If so, where ? What
articles of diet should be avoided ? —1719.
Your doctor will treat for rheumatoid ar-
thritis. Unless as an out-patient, hospital atten-
tion is seldom required; the routine demands
self-attention apart from medicinal treatment.
In the subject past maturity the trouble de-
velops with localised pain and stiffness of the
joints. These faults are aggravated by faulty
circulation and uric-acid accumulation —with
elimination of the latter some relief may be
obtained. Diathermy, hot foments and vapor
baths, and local massage witlr cod-liver or
dugong oil have proved successful remedies.
Avoid extremes, curtail red meat and condi-
ments, and take aperient sulphate of soda in a
glass of warm water each morning. lodine,
lithium citrate, salicylates, etc., may be given
under medical supervision.
*x* - *
(1) What is the correct pronunciation of the
name “Strachan” ? (2) To what clan do its
be'"- -'v belong ? (3) Any history and motto ?
—1473.
UJ The general, and apparently stabilised,
pronunciation is Strawn, but the traditional ren-
dering is more nearly Strahan. (2) It is a
purely territorial name, applied to the members
of a large Deeside family resident in the parish
and district of Strachan, in Kincardineshire,
about 30 miles west of Aberdeen. They are
not a sept of any clan, but in time of turbu-
lence would follow either the Farquarsons or
the Gordons —probably the latter, as the Mar-
quis of Huntly, “The Cock o’ the North” and
head of the" Gordon clan, whose seat is .at
Aboyne, would be their nearest leader. (3)
According to Burke’s Extinct and Dormant
Peerages, the first of this ancient family was
Sir James Stratheyhan, who obtained the lands
of Thorntoun as a dowry with his wife, an
heiress, and was confirmed therein by a charter
from King David I. between 1134 and 1153.
A descendant, Andrew Strachan, was a great
favorite of Charles 11., who created him a
baronet of Nova Scotia in 1625. He married
a daughter of the Earl of Angus, but, their
son dying without issue, the title parsed to
a cousin, the third baronet. The fourth baronet
also died without issue, being succeeded by
his cousin, a post-captain in the Royal Navy,
and the title in 1777 devolved upon his nephew,
an Admiral of the Blue, who died in 1828,
since when the baronetcy has remained dor-
mant. A branch of the Strachans of Kin-
cardineshire has been long resident in Norfolk,
and has its motto Non tiineo sed caveo
—“I do not fear, but am cautious.”
Brief Answers.
J.J.K.: (1) Service pension on account of
age is payable, subject to all other relative con-
ditions, at 60 in the case of a male; at 55 in
the case of a female. (2) Eligibility is limited
to persons who served in the Great War of
1914-18 L.C.C.: The Federal Institute of
Accountants will grant to candidates of the
Chartered Institute of Secretaries exemptions
from all subjects which they have passed,
in at their own institute with the exception o!
linal income-tax law (State and Federal)
L. : War Service Homes Commission, Bris-
bane, advises us that it is not receiving appli-
cations for the erection of new homes....
W.G.H.: Write secretary, Master Bakers’
Association, 18 Martin-place, Sydney D.S.:
This year’s competition closed on Saturday,
June 6. For details concerning the 1937 com-
petition see the Red Page... .A.W.S.: (1) Wash
the saddle with saddle soap, as the oil will
probably remain in the leather for some con-
siderable time. (2) In treating a new saddle,
use coachaline, and saddle soap on top of it
to take out the loose grease. (3) For bridle
work, girths and stirrup leathers use neatsfoot
oil moderately S.D.P.: Write Divisional
Officer, N.S.W. Weather Bureau, Sydney
0.E.C.: Write George Hudson, 7 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .C.8.W.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department for pamphlet “Bacterial
Canker of Tomatoes”... .S.W.D.: Communi-
cate with the Agricultural Department, Bris-
bane E.A.: Madame Bovary is by Gus-
tave Flaubert (1821-80), and was first published
1857. Flaubert was also the author of
Salammbo, The Sentimental Education and
The Temptation of St. Anthony E.A.P.:
There is no back door; if you wish to pro-
tect yourself you must apply for a discharge
in the ordinary course... .X.Y.Z.: (1) 5
Correy’s-avenue, Concord, Sydney. (2) His
great-grandfather was one of the first settlers
in the Riverina, and he lived in the district
until a youth E. 8.: (1) As for greaser on
a steamship. (2) Necessary for applicant to
hold first-preference license issued by Mercan-
tile Marine Office, York-street North, Sydney.
(3) Apply to shipping companies by letter,
giving qualifications K.A.C.: Give a heavy
dressing of sodium chlorate, using £lb. dis-
solved in one gallon of water, and apply to
three to four square yards. This should kill
the grass, but will not leave the land poisoned.
J.T.: See Neon Signs, by Miller and Fink.
... .A.H.: (1) Swine Practice, by Kinsey (325.),
and Productive Swine Husbandry, by Day
(18s.). (2) Barnes and Noble, 105 Fifth-
avenue ; Eureka Book Shop, Eighth-street;
Abbey Book Co., 61 East Eighth-street; Ace
Book Bargain Co., 127 East 23rd-street;
and Doubleday Doran Book Shops, 52 East
44th-street —all New York, U.S.A A.M.:
Get in touch with Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Sydney R.A.: Furnish full in-
formation as to the nature of the work to
the Dept, of Labour and Industry, Sydney
C.F.T.: A person holding land with frontage
to the Condamine River, Queensland, may
pump water from that river for irrigation pur-
poses, provided that he obtains a license to
do so under the Water Acts. Application for
a license should be made to the Department of
Irrigation and Water Supply, Executive Build-
ings, Brisbane. An advertising fee of £1 is
payable, but no charge is made for the license.
No rates are payable for the water T.J.K.:
Bakelite is a commercial material consisting of
phenols and formaldehyde, made hard by the
application of heat. It owes its origin and its
name to H. Baekeland, a chemist W.T.:
The Bahrein Islands group is in the Persian
Gulf, and is a protectorate of Great Britain,
being ruled by a native chief with the assist-
ance of a resident British adviser. The popu-
lation is 100,000... .P.M.: The English St.
Leger was started in 1776 by Colonel St. Leger,
of Parkhill, Doncaster, from whom it takes its
name E.D.: The population of Nyasaland
consists of 1,304,123 natives and 2821 whites;
the total area of the protectorate is 37,890
square miles. Large portions are fertile; and
coffee, tobacco, tea and cotton are grown
M. : The Little Entente is the alliance be-
tween Czecho-Slovakia, Rumania and Yugo-
slavia. It was founded in 1920 and renewed in
1929 K.F.: A letter addressed care Legisla-
tive Assembly, Brisbane, will find him....'
H.E.1.: Specimen forwarded is Albizzia loph-
aniha, known as “Cape wattle” or “crested
wattle.” It is a native of W.A., and is only
distantly related to the true wattles of N.S.W.,
which belong to the genus Acacia A.M.N.:
From Gerrard Wire Tying Machine Co., 18-24
Ireland-street, West Melbourne D.0.C.:
Lady Eleanor Smith is the daughter of the
late Lord Birkenhead,- the first earl, and has
published, in addition to Red Wagon, Flamenco,
Ballerina, Satan’s Circus and The Christmas
Tree and. Tzigane. Her address is 4 Chester-
street, London, S.W.I S.G.: The popula-
tion of Java (including Madura) was given at
the last census as 41,718,335, of whom
20,424,199 were males and 21,294,136 females;
of this total 192,571 were Europeans and
40,891,093 natives, the remainder, 634,671, be-
ing made up of other Asiatics, chiefly Chinese.
Java is, of course, a portion of the Nether-
lands East Indies... .H.C.: You are evidently
confusing your bank balance with the profits
made during the year. Where the profits of
the previous year are left in the bank, the
profits of the following year would be ascer-
tained without reference to the credit balance
on hand at the beginning of the year....
C.M.: It is almost impossible to forward a set
of rules which would be suitable, as clubs in
different competitions frame their rules accord-
ing to local requirements. Get in touch with
some neighboring club or clubs, and from the
rules of these frame a set to suit your own
purpose... .A.V.8.: Neither wheat oil nor
maize-germ oil is prepared on a commercial
basis, and there is no Australian supply. Ex-
periments on the vitamin E constituent are
still being made without definite isolation of tire
substance. It occurs in green leaf-vegetables,
lettuce, whole wheat, oats, egg-yolk, cod liver
oil and other foods in close association with
vitamin A, and is present in the unsaponifiable
portion of fats. The ordinary individual
obtains a sufficiency of vitamin E from a well-
balanced mixed diet... .(Many others mailed.)


:
11 ws»«lli
.
••'■' *
PilliPi||ii!«^S^^PiWiii«lp»W
/
*
&o> <'■■*. p
V Zf
iS.tT* ".x^
?' §
..■■ ?
m* i '
:A
n isiiHiiiiii
as
S s . . % v
rJ
iM Wo»mmmmi!m
PViH
$ • % _ < _, ' sN \ a
f lllli|llll||lli»ill|lililplllll
*M /Vi
*» : J! 1
m ”?4||
z
/ I
■
■c. £ * % '•*'
il
13
i ...
/■
f,:l
11
\
SBS
• ••'•'■
* . ,••.
V
o %
>: •
;
I
%
Pf
WS
ms
r\
-< . %
■■ ■■;■
Mi
jPP
'. 1
,*.» ■
ill m
li
i.. 1
\
Pi:
11
i il
O
gig
V
rich, sustaining value of sun-
ripened oats that is what you get in
every health-bringing glass of Oatmeal
Stout. It nourishes —it strengthens without
fattening.
i m
J
TO
EYS
OATEAL STOUT
//
TOOHEYS LIMITED, STANDARD BREWERY,
SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Uoldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Pbilp & Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA— Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston-


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Full Charge gave' such an inglorious
display in the Port Phillip Hurdle at Wil-
liamstown that his National prospects
were seriously discounted. Fullarton
lound that the favorite wouldn’t jump
generously, either behind the leaders or
in advance of the field. At an obstacle
fronting the members’ stand Full Charge
lost lengths by his sluggishness. There-
upon Fullarton adopted disciplinary
measures, and at the mile post his mount
was second to Bayntun, the Western Dis-
trict hurdler (hat had fallen with Aliek
at the Valley a fortnight before.
Remembering how brilliantly Full
Charge had come home—third to The
Wizard and In the Air —at Caulfield on
June 20 in the principal fiat race, it
looked as if A. T. Creswick’s prad would
run away from his rivals after taking
command at the six-furlongs pole. How-
ever, he blundered at the next flight, and
allowed Bayntun to regain control. Fullar-
ton got to work with the whip on Full
Charge, but his mount was either sulky
or physically settled. Passed by Cold
Spring, Pooley Bridge and Martext, the
10-to-9 favorite faded into fourth posi-
tion before the judge was reached.
Pooley Bridge (10 to 1) scored by half
a length from the 33-to-l candidate Cold
Spring. His preparation had been inter-
rupted by a leg injury, and punters could
not persuade themselves that he was for-
ward enough in condition at Williams-
town. Yet the Ornamentation gelding
always was “on the spot,” and put in an
overpowering run after taking the final
hurdle in his stride. Bert Foulsham, who
trains Pooley Bridge, declared weeks ago
that Pooley Bridge was quite as good as
Pildin, with whom he won the National
of 1924 for Tom Davies. On Saturday
he was noncommital as to how the geld-
ing was likely to shape at Flemington.
Hynes, who will ride Sixteen Annas,
was on that horse’s stable companion,
Foxlike, in the Port Phillip Hurdle. He
had a good view of the race, Foxlike
being outclassed and second-last to finish.
In a subsequent interview Hynes de-
clared that Sixteen Annas would be first
home in the National. “Full Charge is
out of my reckoning,” he said. “I feel
lucky that Pooley Bridge has had an in-
terrupted preparation. Naturally he will
have to be kept up to the collar during
the week, and I am afraid he has been
rushed along on the tracks.”
The cross-country race at Williamstown
threw little light on the G.N. Steeple, ex-
cept to minimise the chance of Wood-
lace, who was unaccountably made
iavorite. When he landed the National
in 1934 Woodlace beat a great fencer in
Redditch. Now the son of Backwood
cannot score in poor company, even with
*he advantage of being trained by Jack
Holt and piloted by Alick Fullarton:
The winner on Saturday, Rodda, is
not in the National. Bred by,the late
Arthur Crozier, ,he belongs: to D. G.
Officer, of the Western District, where
jumpers are more highly appreciated than
gallopers. Rodda was ridden by A.
(“Bluey”) Armsden, who also landed the
Maiden Hurdle with Dah.
Twelve months ago Armsden was
severely injured through a fall off Rich-
mond Tiger in the Williamstown Steeple,
Richmond Tiger got round on Saturday
and ran third, with L. Healey in the
saddle. Half an hour or so later Healev
o later Healev
was triumphant on Pooley Bridge in the
Port Phillip Hurdle. It was with Healey
that Full Charge failed so sensationally
in the G. N. Hurdle of 1935.
There is an agitation in Melbourne to
adopt American practice and instal
"magic eye” photography for the deter-
mination of racing finishes. At Williams-
town many spectators disagreed with the
judge in awarding El Bruno a half-head
win over Irish Message in the Juvenile
Handicap, and giving Chilperic the
Esplanade Welter by half a head from
Alerta. While the present system con-
tinues it is futile to quarrel with the man
in the box, but on occasions any judge
may be deceived by his eyesight.
Chilperic is the Cyklon gelding- that
beat Turbine and Gaine Carrington in
the Toorak Handicap of 1933. He has
been a cripple off and on, but S. B. Fer-
guson eventually patched him up, and the
stable went for a killing on Saturday.
Chilperic being backed from 7 to 1 down
to 5 to 2. It took all the skill of Ashley
Reed to pull him through, the favorite
having a bad passage. He ought to win
again soon ; so, too, should Gay Circle,
the Maoriland-bred colt that won the
Point Cook Handicap. Gay Circle fin-
ished with a rush to cut down the pace-
maker, Yultewirra. He had to with-
stand a strong challenge from Serlodi,
who is returning to the form that enabled
him to land the King’s Cup at Brisbane
in August, 1935.
El Bruno is by El Cacique, whose best
representative, Silver King, annexed the
Rosehill Guineas of 1934 and had a thrill-
ing tussle with Theo in the A.J.C. Derby.
Evidently stamina is the forte of El
Bruno, who found the mile and 55 yards
greatly to his liking at Williamstown.
* * * *
Owners of jumpers continue to give
the A.J.C. good,reasons for abolishing
races over obstacles. The club put up £650
for its hurdle race on Saturday. Seven
started (The Genius was not among
them) and, Greensea excepted, they were
of poor class. Greensea was asked to
carry 13st. 41b. The old fellow could
not pace it with Sly Lad (5 to 1) after
the first mile, and thenceforward it was
a procession. Sly Lad “walked in” from
Fickle Wallace and Spanker.
On the other hand, the A.J.C. Amateur
Cup proved a decided success. The
winner was Vaalmore (8 to 1), bred by
Otway Falkiner but owned by the Yeo-
val pastoralist J. A. Miller. Ridden
expertly by G. McEachern, from Wel-
lington, Vaalmore beat Captain Rado
and Sir Horton handily. The favorite,
Cognac, was not sighted until the race was
practically over, and El Paraiso was
anchored by his weight. Blue Blood,
ridden by R. Carter, led into the straight,
and just missed a place.
The Ring took no risks with Jaccuse
in the June Stakes ; but his display was
weak. Darby Munro had him handy at
the turn, but, lugging out in the straight
and tiring, the favorite was nearer last
than first at the finish. Some Boy’s
owner, W. H. Kennerson, of Bathurst,
seems fated not to win a race at Rand-
wick. Weiss dashed his nag away as soon
as heads were turned for home, and got
the sought-for break, but Cid (10 to 1)
came with a fine burst and downed Some
Boy by a head. Speardale was a length
off, third. Shackteton and Moonray
showed pace, and Belgravia came home
well to run fourth. An early winner
this.
On form, the Maoriland-owned and
-bred Omarere (6 to 1) should have been
lavorile for the First Nursery, but the
backing of Warrawing (to 5 to 2) made a
market for C uddle s mate. Commencing
smartly—all Price’s two-year-olds are
well schooled at the barrier—the good-
looking son of Iliad won with his head
on his chest from Watchman and
Apollo ; Don Gesar was next. Warra-
wing struck a little trouble at the turn,
but at the time was struggling to hold his
P °! lt^ n ‘ Earl Sun and s P irit s. fourth
and fifth respectively, were always in the
picture, and Acinom exhibited some
speed.
Tapestry (16 to 1) sent the bookies
home rejoicing after the Ellesmere Han-
dicap. He was ridden by the apprentice
Richaids, who had scored on Cid This
Canterbury-trained gelding had failed so
badly at his last start that he did not
appear to have any chance, but some-
body must have backed him—he was
laid early at twenties. Securing an un-
interrupted passage in the straight, he
sneaked along the rails and beat Alan
Verde and Kagal, with Confab fourth.
Osculum received a rough passage. He
had to be checked when Whitlingham
nearly came down at the mile-pole, and
was not out of trouble over the last half-
mile. Buonarroti was also in the ruck
throughout.
A failure this year in races up to a mile
and a quarter, Young Crusader (Cale-
don —Bonnie Lady) made good as a
stayer in the AJ.C. Winter Plate on Mon-
day. Ridden by Knox, he came right
away from his field when pressure was
put on. It wasn’t much of a field, but
Young Crusader’s showing suggested that
he might have prevailed in better com-
pany over the distance —a mile and five
furlongs. Young Crusader went out at
7 to 1 ; second (El Senorita) and third
(Mestoravon) were outsiders.
* * * *
Visions of an unbroken succession of
“skinners” or near-“skinners” flashed
before the eyes of Melbourne book-
makers at Moonee Valley on Wednes-
day. The Trial Hurdle Race went
to the outsider of the party, Davanthus,
nominally 25 to 1, but scarcely called ;
and two-year-old races were captured by
other outsiders—Empiric, 12 to 1, and
Pennock, 10 to 1. But then came a run
of well-backed winners: Welbeck, 7 to 2,
Orfprd, 5 to 1, and Gaybrooke, 5 to 2.
Reaper (15 to 1) partly restored the
visions again, but profits were reduced
by Prince Conceit (3 to 1) in the last race.
It was a compensation meeting, so prize-
money was lower than usual. Even so,
£lOOO was distributed.
Sydney needs clubs like the one at
Moonee Valley and compensation meet-
ings, which would admit of superfluous
racecourses being given up to the boys
and girls for sports' grounds, of which
there is a saddening dearth in the Bridge
City.
*** a -
At Victoria Park on Wednesday, prize-
money for the principal race was £3O less
than was given at Moonee Valley for
the Trial Hurdle; and for 12 races
£873 6s. Bd. was distributed by the club,
which is so economical that it'refuses to
scrap its archaic single-tape barrier.
Otherwise the proceedings were note-
worthy only for the success in the
Maiden Handicap, after 30 attempts, of
Rogerio, a four-year-old stallion by
Roger de Busli—The Dhow, trained by
King for Hunter White, the AJ.C. com-
mitteeman. His previous record notwith-
standing, Rogerio always gave shrewd
judges the impression that he was a pretty
good horse in the making.
■** * *
“Der Jong”: South African racing folk
are complaining bitterly of the" con-
tinuance of the £lOO import tax on race-
horses, imposed years ago in an attempt
to improve the quality of locally bred
racing stocki It did nothing of the kind,
and South African horses are in their
own country held in much the same
esteem as the “country-bred” in India ;
but the tax stays on. When I last saw
South African racing, just after the Boer
War, the great majority of the horses
were importations from Argentina. Later
there was an extensive Australian inva-
sion, but attempts at others have been
heavily hampered by the tax. James
Muir, of Durban, recently landed six
yearlings bought at the Australian
autumn sales. The taxgatherers allow no
reduction on quantity, so, leaving out
what he bid for the yearlings and cost of
transport, Muir had to pay the Govern-
ment £6OO without having the certainty
that any of the youngsters would ever
figure in a race.
❖ ❖ * *
Extravagant tales have been told about
the revenue received in S.A. from bet-
ting shops. One newspaper persists in
stating that it is enabling the State, after
many years, to show a surplus. Chief
Secretary Ritchie has given the figures
for 2} years—December, 1933, to June,
1936: £172,129 in stamp duties and
£132,767 in commission. Nothing to
make a song about, and local racing has
not benefited since betting shops were
licensed.
Footbrawl
South Melbourne fell from the top of
the premiership tree on Saturday when
Richmond defeated it in a fast, hard-
bumping game, Richmond getting the
better of the bumps. The Tigers had a
14-point lead at half-time, and shortly
after the resumption South, which had
already lost one man through injuries,
saw another follow him. The Tigers
increased their lead, finishing with 14-14
to 11-11.
Melbourne (11-17), by defeating Carlton
(9-14) on the latter team’s home ground,
displaced it from fourth position, while
Geelong broke a long series of reverses
by running all over Essendon. ’Dons
kicked 14-13, sufficient to win many a
game, but the Pivotonians put 26-18 on
the board, Methereli kicking 10 of their
goals. Norths two wins over Footscray
and Carlton saw it take the field against
Collingwood with more confidence than
for years. It didn't avail them much:
Collingwood, 17-19; North, 8-7. The
other two results were: St. Kilda 20-17
beat Footscray 16-13, and Hawthorn 11-9
heat Fitzroy 9-9.
* * #
After reams of prophecy on the cer-
tainty of the English Rugby Leaguers
cleaning up the locals on this tour it was
a mild shock to see 12 N. S. Welshmen
down them; but worse happened on
Saturday. Without Prigg and Gibbs,
Newcastle beat the visitors 21-16. The
Englishmen might have won with Hodg-
son in: they scored four tries to three,
and so were beaten in goal-booting. One
ol the best things in the game was for-
ward Narvo. Narvo has done well in
Sydney this year and looks like another
Wally Prigg in the making.
Every paying guest who could be
crammed in was eagerly admitted on
Monday to the Sydney C.G., where 11
Sydney lads, a Novocastrian and a
Queenslander played 13 North of Eng-
land men at Rugby League. True to its
I rugal traditions, the management banned
broadcasting, a circumstance which, as it
happened, deprived it of revenue as well
as thousands of sick Diggers and other
hospital patients of a King’s Birthday
entertainment which they would have
appreciated and remembered The Aus-
tralians, ably led by Brown, who played
a great game, won by 24 points to 8.
* * * *
“Gate": On the eve of the Queens-
land-N.S.W. Rugby League game in Bris-
bane it was thoughtfully announced that
the game would be all in, the genera!
note being that “if the other fellow starts
stoush we’ll give him bags of it.” The
game proceeded according to pro-
gramme. The only man ordered off went
because he spoke to the referee. No
doubt the official felt that a mere con-
versationalist was out of place in the
melee.
* * * *
Parramatta beat Western Suburbs,
22-13, .at Rugby Union, thus leaving
Rand wick alone at the head of the
premiership table. The Parramatta for-
wards, with Cerutti back to lead them,
were much more effective than their
opposite numbers. Randwick had all the
better of the first half against St. George ;
afterwards Mhe Greens slackened, but
they made it 26-21. Manly again failed
to get the ball out to Kelaher, and went
down to East 9-19, one try to four. The
Eastern three-quarters stood well up on
their men and rarely allowed the ball
to travel the length of their opponents’
line. North had a slice of ill-fortune
opposed to University. The Students
were behind 6-11 ; a converted try made
a draw of it. Leach for North and
Nicholas for ’Varsity each notched nine
of their teams’ points. Drummoyne,
with a 14-6 win over Gordon, three tries
to none, went up level with West into
second place on the table. Uni. is fourth.
{Continued on next page.)
For the first time, all the seeded
players got through to the find] eight
for the Wimbledon singles. Crawford
and Quist were Australia’s pair, Craw-
ford seemingly in better form than at
any time during the last 18 months.
U.S.A. had three: Grant, who beat Mc-
Grath in straight sets, Allison and
Budge. Britain had two: Perry, easily,
and Austin; the other was Von Cramm.
* * * *
A. H. Padgham won the British golf
open with an aggregate of 287—73, 72,
71, 71. After a struggle to qualify,
Ferrier just made the final 60 with an
80 and a 74. Then he slumped again
with 76 and 80. His 310 gave him forty-
fourth place.
* * * $
Be Jabers’ : The long arm of co-
incidence stretched itself in Ireland when
Dr. O’Callaghan, the Olympic hammer-
thrower —he won in 1928 and 1932
was giving an exhibition. The chain of
the “hammer” broke and the head flew
into the crowd, seriously damaging a
youth whose name was also O’Callaghan.
He was no relation of the doctor, who
had to part up £2500 to the injured lad
under a Court judgment.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
G. N. Hurdle Race: Brilliant
Son, 1 ; Sixteen Annas, 2 ; Poolev
Bridge, 3.
Kensington Steeple: El Dama-
royal ; next, Pactolus.
Iramoo Handicap: Beamish Boy ;
next, Lady Kooringal.
Winter Handicap: Serlodi ; next.
Gay Circle.


M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Stadium continues to put on
mills between Americans. The public is
staying away in increasingly vast num-
bers ; but presumably the matches enter-
tain the syndicate and keep the staff
occupied.
❖ ij; ;j;
Hughie Mehegari the Second had
another victim at Leichhardt on Wednes-
day in a lightweight named Baker, one
of “Tod” Morgan’s string. Profuse
bleeding from an eye wound decided the
referee to close the proceedings in the
fifth round after Mehegan had proved
himself distinctly the better boxer.
*i* H*
One of the few American boxing nota-
bilities who gave Schmeling a chance
against Louis was Tom O’Rourke ; and
he was fated not to see his judgment vin-
dicated. Going into the German’s dress-
ing-room to wish him luck, the old
manager—he was in his eighties—had a
seizure and was dead before the gong
sounded for the first round. In his time
O’Rourke managed a lot of colored
boxers —the best were Walcott and
Dixon —and he knew their weaknesses.
He had a great admiration for
the pugs from these parts who in-
vaded his country 40-odd years ago
and virtually won all the champion-
ships, though in one or two cases
a well-beaten local lad (McAuliffe,
for instance) was declared the winner;
and he was always on the lookout for
likely successors to them. A few years
ago, being doubtless hard up, Tom took
a chance with Pat Redmond, an enor-
mous lad from Dublin, who, unwisely
persuaded to leave the bar trade in Syd-
ney, lit out for New York after whip-
ping a few third-raters. Camera knocked
Redmond out of the ring in the first
round.
Footbrawl
“Outsider”: The Richmond (Vic.) C.G.
dispute is getting into politics. State
Labor-leader Tunnecliffe remarked in
Parliament last week that “the Govern-
ment should take control of sports
grounds in public parks and appoint a
board of management.” His complaint
is that “football clubs are being de-
spoiled by people who have obtained im-
proper control over public property,”
and that in the last 10 years Richmond
F.C. has received £15,000 out of the
football takings while the cricket club,
which “never produced a penny of the
money,” has received £14,000. He did
not mention the slightly relevant fact that
in that period the cricket club spent
nearly £20,000 on improvements to the
ground.
“Victoria Park”: How solidly the Mel-
bourne football clubs contribute to the
support of the cricket clubs was evidenced
at a meeting of Collingwood Council,
which controls the local football-cricket
ground. In one season the council drew
£20,000 in revenue from sporting bodies
using the park, and £19,939 came from
football.
* t- * =K
“Umpire’s Mate”: Following a game
between Association teams, Oakleigh and
Northcote, in which spectators and
players of both teams joined in a free-
for-all fight in the last quarter, the umpire
“reported” all 36 players. Apart from
rough play and charges of fighting, he
protested that he had been threatened
with violence by Oakleigh men during the
match, and that while leaving the field
he was kicked, punched on the nose and
subjected to a hostile demonstration.
And unkindest cut of all—Oakleigh had
not yet paid him for his services. The
“wholesale” charge was dismissed on
technical grounds, as no charge can be
made against a team unless a deposit
of £2 is lodged. A committee was
appointed to investigate the charge of in-
timidation and violence against Oakleigh.
* * =i= *
“Pivot”: Geelong, not so long ago one
of the big chiefs of the V.F.L., is in a
bad way. Funds have been rocky for
some time, and this year a run of outs
has tragically affected attendances.
Other Victorian clubs are in a somewhat
similar position, and one or two have tried
to meet the situation by cutting payment
to players. Sooner or later most profes-
sional sports organisations come to the
same pass. If the public ceases to be
attracted the performers cannot be paid.
“Bear Leader”: Applications for the
job of steering the Australian R.U. team
round M.L. will close on July 11. The
lucky man will be picked on July 13,
when the Australian side, which will
travel by the Aorangi from Sydney a
month later, will also be published. One
would like to see a Victorian or at least
a Queenslander get the job. Billets of
the kind are apt to be regarded as a
N.S.W. reserve, and are jealously guarded
by Ma.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian R.U. has
picked its team for the triangular tourney
which begins on Saturday in Sydney.
Seven men new to inter-State footer are
in, and Morgan, a forward, and Laurie,
a fullback, are spoken of as something
out of the box. Both are recruits from
Australian Rules, as are most of the
newcomers in Melbourne Rugby. The
opening game will be against N.S.W. at
Sydney C.G.
“S.S.S.”: The English footballers had
no trouble in winning their matches in
North Queensland, downing Mackay
40-17 and N.Q. at Townsville 39-3.
Gates were records, and, though the hard
grounds and constant train-travelling
have taken their toll of the tourists, there
have been hoggins o’ brass to make up for
it. The Rockhampton match, over which
such a rumpus arose between the visitors
and the locals, could not be played after
all, owing to the ground being flooded.
A pity, for “Rocky” might have seen a
willing go from the tourists, who were
offended when Larcombe, M.L.A., told
manager Anderton to “shoot oop.”
“Cleveland”: It is not unlikely that
future Rugby League teams from Eng-
land will play their country matches,
especially those in North Queensland, on
Sundays wherever possible, thus giving
players an extra day to recover from
fatigue. Many of the N.S.W. and N.Q.
Leagues now play their games on Sunday,
but the Britons have hitherto shied at the
idea, though recent contact with France
“Gimme me teeth—one of the blighters bit me!"
has weakened their morale in this respect.
Years ago, Rugby Union opinion in the
North varied on the subject. Townsville
haughtily observed the Sabbath. Charters
Towers, though a rigid Methody com-
munity, played on no other day. Towers
teams used to complain that when they
played Townsville at “The Bay” on Sat-
urdays many of their players lost a
shift, which would have been saved by a
Sunday game.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Wallasey”: Ferrier’s latest commu-
nique from the Hoylake front says that
Sarazen has been urging him to break his
journey home through the U.S.A. to do
a short exhibition tour with Gene and
Helen Hicks. Ferrier has declined, but
expects to pick the pair up at Honolulu
on their way to Australia. The Ameri-
cans will show first in M.L., and Sarazen
proposes to play in the Australian open
and professional championships and in
the Adelaide centenary tourney before
leaving via Westralia. Whether the lady
will play in the Australian open is not
mentioned. There seems to be no rule to
prevent her.
:’c -ic $ $
“Slangwang”: A long-expected ex-
change of compliments broke out when
Sydney “Sun” published a cable accus-
ing Ferrier of bad sportsmanship and
bad temper while playing in the qualify-
ing round of the open championship at
Wallasey. The “D.T.” jumped at the
chance, and countered next morning with
a flat contradiction of the “Sun” diatribe.
Of course, to each eminent journal the
trifle was ten times as important as the
trade war with Japan.
;J:
“Woogaroo”: The coolness between
Von Nida, the Queensland open cham-
pion, and the professional golfers’ asso-
ciation has been healed. Von N. was
an amateur who turned pro. without
going through the prescribed regime of
apprenticeship in a workshop. As a result
some of the professionals declined to play
when he entered for various events on
the programme of the Queensland cham-
pionship meeting. Now his application
for membership has been accepted. As
Von N. intends playing in the Austra-
lian championships this year a source of
possible friction here has been removed.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Miss Hood has won the
Queensland women’s championship in
Brisbane for the ninth time, defeating her
successful opponent in last year’s final,
Miss Gardiner, 7 and 5, a convincing
display which ended with a 20ft. putt
for a birdie two. Miss Hood has been
winner or runner-up on every occasion
she has played in the event for the last
12 years, and is certainly far and away
the best golferette Queensland has turned
out. Unfortunately she has never figured
in southern championships.
$ "l* •*'
“Sturt”: Royal Adelaide, the club
which started golf in S.A., has a new
champion, Dick Destree, aged 19. In
the semi-final he beat Ackland Horman,
last year’s champion and himself a boy
wonder not long ago. The final was
won from the veteran Legh Winser, who
had beaten A. P. McLachlan. Winser
has come back to something like the
old form that made him seven times
champion of S.A. and once of Australia.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: All hope of seeing the
German tennis players in Australia next
season has been dashed by the announce-
ment that after Wimbledon Von Cramm
and co. will go to America for the U.S.A.
championships. After these the team
tours California, and home by way of
South America.
“Bournemouth”: The failure of the
Yugoslav team to turn up at Wimbledon
was a disappointment after its fine per-
formance in the Davis Cup rounds.
However, the Yugs. say they were getting
close to staleness, and, as they are
keen to down Germany in the European
final, they are having a spell.
“Bournemouth”: If Perry wins the
singles at Wimbledon, as he is set on
doing, it will be for the third successive
time. Tony Wilding was the last to do
that. The record still stands to the credit
of Renshaw, with six wins off the reel,
and another three years later. H. L.
Doherty won the honor five times run-
ning, and brother R.F. four in 'a row.
Among the women, Helen Wills-Moody
stands level with Mrs. Chambers, each
having seven wins.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The latest sug-
gestion for detecting footfaults comes
from Crawford, who advocates an in-
visible ray. A player crossing the line
would break this, and the umpire would
be notified by a buzzer. Another sugges-
tion —my own —is based on the practice
at executions by hanging. There are
always two attendants, one each side of
the trap, whose duty is, if necessary, to
hold the principal actor upright if he or
she shows signs of fainting. In the case
of tennis the attendants could kneel be-
hind the server grabbing him firmly by
the ankles. It would be impossible for
the player to cross the line before serving,
and a constant source of friction in cham-
pionship tennis would be avoided.
Miscellaneous
“Ibn el Issar”: There have been indi-
cations that all was not well with the
Indian Eleven in England, and the
trouble has culminated in the sending
home of Amarnath, one of the best all-
rounders in the team, and the only Indian
batsman to score a century in a Test
with England. The underlying cause is
the age-old enmity between Hindu and
Moslem.
“Byculla”: The Amarnath affair was
considered serious enough to warrant a
pronouncement from Lord Willingdon,
a recent Viceroy. He said at a dinner of
the Surrey club that he was aware of all
the facts and that no other action than
the offender’s return to India was pos-
sible.
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: The Japanese eight to
figure at the Olympiad gave the critics
a shock at Marlow regatta when it won
the challenge cup from the Thames R.C.,
one of the oldest of English rowing clubs.
The Japs are all university men and
average only lOst. 51b., but they are per-
fectly together. Their normal striking
rate was 40, and in one sprint they
jumped this to 52 to the minute —extra-
ordinary to European notions. They
took 4m. 9sec. for the seven-furlong
course, a time which does not suggest
they were pushed, and they should find
the Olympic course well within their
powers. Henley, however, will provide
a stiffer test than Marlow.
“Blade”: The Japanese brought their
own boat from Japan. It is a narrow,
unpainted craft with shorter slides than
Europeans are accustomed to, \yhich
would account for the crew being able
to strike the high rate ascribed to them.
Thirty years ago when the Belgians stag-
gered humanity by beating the cream of
English rowing for the Grand Chal-
lenge at Henley—the first foreign crew
to win there—they also flabbergasted the
experts by the fast rate of stroking they
employed and maintained.
* $ * *
“Spike”: The Australian Olympians
made a good start by being the first side
to arrive in Berlin, where they were
effusively welcomed —as, indeed, they had
been in their progress from the French
border. The French, by the way, are to
send only an “unofficial” team—appar-
ently, a payback for the German occu-
pation of the demilitarised zone.
“So”: The Australians seem quite
taken aback with the splendors of the
Olympic camp, and manager Alderson
has announced he may have considerable
trouble in getting the team away from
Germany—it is to be hoped he touched
wood there. Also it is added that the
camp is on military ground and con-
trolled by the army authorities. Quite
like dear old Ruhleben.
jjs *
“Stamford”: England has started
something in Olympic circles by inviting
the international Olympic committee to
hold the 1940 Olympiad in Britain. The
offer came through the Lord Mayor of
London, who says he has £50,000 prom-
ised for the meeting and another avail-
able if wanted. Most of the events would
be held at Wembley. Japan and several
other countries have had applications in
for some years, and it has been gener-
ally accepted that 1940 would be Japan’s
turn, Britain having had the honor in
1908. There is no precedent against
Britain getting the Games again, how-
ever, for France has had them twice, in
1900 and 1924. The international com-
mittee will decide the matter at Berlin
on July 30.
* * *
“Jigger”: Walter Lindrum’s strictures
on the continual increase of the baulk-
line handicap drew a reply from the
chairman of the English Billiards Coun-
cil. The official extols the system, point-
ing out that the game is made easier for
amateurs by asking them to cross the
baulkline only once in 400 points in-
stead of the last 20 points of 200, as with
the professionals. Lindrum has replied
with the withering question whether any-
one has ever heard of an amateur able
to make a 400 break.


Whf Gins a GOMIIA
UeSnENGIHiIIOUn?
«
m
c
x " m
ml
■'*
i
%
m
MS
i:
MS
SMS
?:£
if
«&*
m».
WHAT THIS AMAZING
BOOK WILL TELL YOU!
9 How to Add Inches to Your Chest.
# How to Strengthen Your Back.
$ How to Treble Your Strength.
9 How to Get Strong Nerves.
# How to Get Great Strength.
® How to Develop a Muscular Body.
9 How to Cultivate Personality.
How to Be Successful.
# How to Attract Friends.
9 How to Do Feats of Strength.
9 How to Be Always Well.
9 How to Get Endless Endurance.
These Men Started by
Reading This Book!
6 INCHES GAIN ON CHEST!
“I have now a 42in. chest, Cin. increase
since taking your course, and I have grown
all over.”—J. KIRKWOOD, C., N.S.W.
COURSE THE FINEST AND BEST!
“Your course is the finest I have ever
seen to so quickly build up strength and
muscle, and I thank you again and again
for what it has done for me.”—J. Me-
GOVERN, T.A., N.Z.
PUT ON 5 INCHES ON CHEST!
“I have put on 5 inches around the chest
and 1 inch on the upper aims. I am very
fit and well also, and thank you tor the
interest taken in me.”—F. WOOD, W.
COURSE MARVELLOUS!
“I don’t think there is a more pleased man
in this State than myself, and I am more
than proud of my body every time I see its
reflection in the mirror. I can only say it is
marvellous.”—W. TIMBLETT, P., W.A.
ASTOUNDED AT IMPROVEMENT!
“I am writing to express my deepest appre-
ciation to you for the benefit I have derived
from your course of physical culture. When
I measured myself recently I was astounded
to see such improvement in so short a time.”
—J. W. STRINGER, P„ Vic.
Read the most sensational book on strength ever published.
This book will amaze you with its facts —startle you with
its possibilities. You don’t know you’re alive until you get
this book in your own hands. Do you know what gives a
gorilla the strength of 10 men? Do you know why strength
and virility are connected? It will answer questions you
have hardly dared to ask yourself, and you can get a copy
FREE—if you hurry. Fill in the Coupon NOW, this
minute, and post it TO-DAY!
THE SECRETS OF MUSCULAR
STRENGTH FREE!
750 Copies to Be Sent Only!
YOU have never seen a book like this before. No publisher has ever dared publish such a
book. Its truth is glaring, its secrets are startling—it is the most amazing book that
has ever appeared in Australia. The moment you turn over its pages you will be enthralled,
you won’t blink an eyelash until you have read every word. It is crammed full of startling
pictures—true-life photographs—startling text —amazing facts. And yet for a while you can
get this wonder book FREE, if you hurry! 750 Copies ONLY will be sent in response to
this advertisement. If your inquiry arrives too late you may never get an opportunity
again. It is NOW or never. Rip the coupon out and post TO-DAY!
15
hL.
m
m
k
m.
\
m
Make This Test To-night!
jgEFORE you hop into bed to-night try this: Strip
down to your birthday suit and stand in front
of your mirror. Look yourself over. What do you
see) A fine, upstanding specimen of a MAN, splen-
didly proportioned, superbly muscled, glowing
with health and vitality? Or do you see a flabby,
sickly sort of fellow, with sunken chest,
bloodless-looking flesh, scrawny arms, neck and
legs?
WHAT 1 CAN DO FOR YOU IN
JUST 30 DAYS !
|N the first 30 days I guarantee to add one
whole inch of real live muscle on each of
your arms, and two whole inches of rippling
strength across your chest. I’ll take the kinks
out of your back, strengthen and broaden your
shoulders, give you a wrist of steel, and a fight-
ing, powerful personality that just yells youth,
vigor and vitality all over. I’ve done it for
hundreds, and I can do it for you!
ANNOUNCEMENT!
npHIS book is the outcome of the
requests of hundreds of men and
is being offered to men only. In
it is the truth about manhood. Why
men fail as husbands, the reason
why sweethearts quarrel. It proves
to the reader that deep down in
every man’s heart is a desire to be
strong, to be well developed, to be
admirfed. There are no half-truths,
no "beating about the bush.” In it
are the plain, unvarnished truths.
Women want he-men—they always
have and they always will. Th’s
remarkable book will tell you how
to quickly transform your body,
how to add inches to your chest,
broaden your shoulders, develop
powerful arms, legs, neck and back.
Between its covers is the story of
how this truly amazing concentrated sys-
tem of muscular development’ was discov-
ered. You can put these principles to work
at once and quickly change your body.
TEST THIS COURSE
for 30 DAYS!
NOW you can test this famous course
yourself—try this remarkable system in
your own any condition you
like, and if it doesn’t add inches to your
chest, broaden your shoulders, develop your
arms, legs, neck and back within 30 days,
it COSTS YOU NOTHING. But you must
hurry; this offer may never be repeated.
It places you under no obligation what-
soever; all you have to do is send the
Coupon NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
PAR SUPERIOR TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am convinced your system is the pick of
them all.”—J. T. HALL, T., N.S.AV.
GAINS ONE STONE!
“I am writing you these few lines to con-
gratulate you and your wonderful system on
the way it has developed my body. M,y
weight has increased nearly a stone, and my
height nearly an inch.” —G. SWAINSON, M.
Est., N.S.W.
GAINED 7 INCHES ROUND THE
CHEST
‘‘Before I started the course, my chest,
normal, was 27 inches, but now it is 34
inches, and 36 expanded; truly a marvellous
difference.”—J. MILNER. C„ Norfolk Island.
GAINS 5 INCHES
AROUND CHEST
“I am now 41fin.
around the chest, which
is, an increase of 5
inches.”—o. E. JEB--
REEN, M., Nth Qland.
HEIGHT
INCREASED
“Gained two indies
in height. Yours
sincerel y.” N.
GRAVE, Malvern, Vic.
Alfred J. Briton, Dept. L
107 Pitt-st., Sydney, M.S.W.
Va HOIVIUI ton&muy SAVQ 0£
fffllS OFFER EXPIRES
RUSH COUPMAIMG NOW !
Alfred J. BRITON
Dept. L,
107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Name
FREAKS
Address


Don’t Keep Getting Well
BE WELL AND FIT ALWAYS
WITH
JUNIKUI
MINERAL SPRING SALTS
Containing the Wonderful
OIL of JUNIPER
See that you obtain the
ORIGINAL
In the Yellow and Red Carton
They not only remedy constipa-
tion, but are the perfect mineral
salts! They contain the marvel-
lous, active ingredients found in
the world’s most noted spas.
NO MORE CONSTIPATION
Constipation is considered by the majority of doctors to
be the greatest evil affecting health. A clogged system
spreads poison throughout every part of the body, caus-
ing headaches, dizziness, pimples, etc., and lays the
foundation for far worse ailments.
Junipah Mineral Spring Salts clean the system gently
yet surely.
RID YOURSELF OF URIC ACID
Excess uric acid in the system is the cause of some of
the most agonising ills with which people can be afflicted
—Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, etc. Junipah Mineral
Spring Salts, being a solvent of uric acid, dissolve this
uric acid and clear it out of the system.
OIL OF JUNIPER CURES
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
TROUBLES
For hundreds of years Oil of Juniper has been the finest
of all remedies for kidney and bladder troubles, and
to-day modern medical science still acknowledges it as
the best. Junipah Mineral Spring Salts contain Oil of
Juniper in conjunction with its other valuable ingredients.
It imparts immediate benefit to the kidneys and will be
found extremely beneficial in all conditions arising from
the stomach or induced by uric acid, such as gout,
rheumatism, acidity, biliousness, constipation, diarrhoea,
nausea, flatulence, heartburn, constipation, loss of
appetite, pain over the heart or near the right shoulder,
painful cramps in the stomach or bowels, sluggish liver,
thirst and vomiting. It will also quickly relieve depres-
sion, headache, sleeplessness and weariness.
11l
1
dz !s
z
V
a
% m
3
..
N
&
<3»v
rr/^
wmmm
YOU GET A LARGER
QUANTITY FOR LESS MONEY
The many expensive ingredients in Junipah Mineral Spring Salts would
necessitate a considerably higher price than for ordinary mineral salts but
for the fact that they are sold in simple yet perfectly effective containers
which are waxed and airproof with patent fastener.
The only genuine Junipah Mineral Spring Salts are packed in a yellow
and red carton.
DEFINITELY DIFFERENT TO ANY
OTHER SALTS
Junipah Mineral Spring Salts are not just another salt they are entirely
different. They contain different ingredients, such as the precious Oil of
Juniper. No other salt functions in the same safe, efficient way as does
“Junipah,” the Perfect Mineral Salts. Junipah Salts are the only mineral
spring salts recommended by the New South Wales Society for the
Promotion of Public Health.
Junipah Mineral Spring Salts do not recrystallise in the blood and are the
perfect mineral salts.
A SWIZZLE STICK FREE.—”™? 2
Junipah, together with the pamphlet from the packet, to the proprietors of Junipah
Mineral Spring Salts, Box No. 1436JJ, G.P.0., Sydney, you will receive a chrome-
plated Swizzle Stick—a most useful household article. The Swizzle Stick is a
combination cocktail mixer, medicine measure, spoon, bottle opener and crown seal
Send 2d. for packing and postage.
jar opener.


Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
July Issue on Sale Saturday.
SHARES OF MERIT
A Market Review
FORESTRY BONDS AND SHARES
More Developments
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv Tlie Bulletin Newspaper Co., Lid., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished ;m
address. A convenient location. 'M
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-. jJ|
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINEES, ROBBERY, ETC.
Putaruru Pine and Pulp Co.
This forestry co. doesn’t talk of
“bonds.” It sells “investments.” It says
so itself—“pine land investments” ; an
“undivided quarter-acre planted with
approximately 170 Pinus insignis trees”
for £lO (terms) or £9 (cash). And nearly
everybody nowadays should be aware of
the investment qualities of undivided
areas of pine-trees.
Putaruru has issued a “booklet.” Dated
December J, 1935, it refers to the special
“E 6” issue of “pine land investments.”
This document “contains the entire
understanding of the respective parties,
and no agreement, warranty or under-
standing, express or implied, other than
the conditions set out herein shall be
binding on the co.”
With a “booklet” like that and a con-
tract like that, the co. should be able to
relieve calls on the State through the deaf
and dumb institutions by finding jobs for
mute salesmen —the booklet is the entire
understanding of the parties. Anything
outside the terms of the contract —being
irrelevant, anyway—could be conveyed
by signs, one would think.
Whether the co. has done anything in
that line isn’t known here. The booklet
gives details only of the directorate ant!
such. Douglas Stuart Wylie—“formerly
managing director of N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, Ltd., and of Smith, Wylie and
Co., Ltd.” —heads the list. The co. was
incorporated in Maoriland on May 7.
1928. It was registered in “Australia"
(N. S. Wales, apparently) 15 days
later. Nominal share capital is
£50,000. How many “investments”
have been issued the booklet does
not say. It says very little about the
co.’s financial position.
Ten pounds (or nine, if you’re
flush) per quarter-acre. The lands
“are either freehold or will be made
freehold by the co., and the title or
titles will he held in trust for investors.”
No trustee is mentioned—unless, that is,
the co. itself is both trustee and, con-
tractee.
The co. will create a a pedal reserve
fund of £1 10s. per fidly-paid-up invest-
ment for the purpose of guaranteeing the
proper maintenance of the planted areas.
This fund will be created on completion
of the payments due on this issue. The
capital of this fund will be paid into a
special trust account at one of the asso-
ciated banks, and may be invested only in
mortgages, Government securities or on
fixed deposit at any of the associated
banks.
These “reserve funds for investors’
security,”
although remaining the property of the
co., shall continue to he held in trust until
the co. commences the work of milling,
pulping or otherwise disposing of the
forests. .. .or it may he used for the pur-
pose of maintaining the forests.
All income from the trust fund shall
remain the property of the co. It is
interesting to note that the capital of the
fund may be used to maintain the forests,
which is the precise purpose for which,
one would assume, the bulk of the rest of
the money not held in trust would be
used.
“We maintain your forest until
realised, and not for a specified time.”
The co., after 10 years, may “take all
necessary and expedient steps for mill-
ing or pulping the forests.” Holders of
“investments” have the right, after “20
years,” to sell their own forests
under certain conditions; but “it is
emphasised that, for the protection of
all those interested, the co. will have the
sole right of milling, pulping or other-
wise disposing of the forests after the ex-
piration of 10 years from the date of
planting, and that such right shall con-
tinue after the 20 years’ period until
such time as the holders exercise their
rights of disposal.”
“Sole right” allowing someone to
“otherwise dispose” of one’s property is
wide latitude indeed.
By the booklet the co. is bound to
erect a mill (a sawmill?) or pulping plant
only if it “decides” to do it. Holders
of the “investments” have their hands
tied as regards marketing from the tenth
to the twentieth year, or longer.
The booklet of Putaruru Pine and Pulp
Co. (N.Z.), Ltd., representing the “entire
understanding” between the co. and
buyers of “investments,” places “in-
vestors” in the position that they have
to trust to the co.'s ability and discretion
to a very large extent. No balance sheet
is included in the booklet, buyers are not
guaranteed that the co. owns the free-
hold of the land even now (lands “are
either freehold or will be made free-
hold”), the co. may lake steps to mill and
market and in that case takes 10 p.c. of
any net profits.
It has been indicated recently that
Pinus insignis can be brought to maturity
in Maoriland for £l5 an acre. Pacific
Forests, Ltd. (a shareholders’ co.), looks
like doing it for less. Putaruru charges
from £36 to £4O an acre, while “invest-
ment” holders have no say in the man-
agement. They are entitled to “reports”
but not to full accounts. And they have
restricted rights in the disposal of their
timber, a doubtful market for it, and a
long wait ahead of them before profits
(if any) show up.
Three Years* Financial Documents
In 1932 D. B. Copland, Professor of
Economics at Melbourne University, and
the late E. O. G. Shann, of Perth (later
Sydney and Adelaide), began to issue a
series of books of important relevant
documents dealing with recent Australian
finance. Since Shaun’s death C. V. Janes,
associate economist to the ’Wales, has
“Well, if y ’ MUST sing on my corner, y might sing what I'm playin' .”
“Well, ain't I?"
taken his place in the partnership to
produce Cross Currents in Australian
Finance (Angus and Robertson; 10s.
6d.).
Like previous volumes of the series,
this is likely to become a standard text-
book for students of current financial his-
tory ; the material is presented without
bias, political or otherwise, and the intro-
duction and notes are merely to illumi-
nate the facts. There are three sections.
“Commonwealth and State Finance”
opens with the salient text of the Finan-
cial Agreement Act of 1928, quotes the
allocation formula of the Commonwealth
Treasury framed in May, 1935, and re-
presents the views of various States by
quotations from Premiers’ statements;
also, the views of public bodies and finan-
cial institutions on loan finance are given,
along with documentation of the rela-
tions between Commonwealth and States,
the Constitutional aspects of unification
and secession, the principal discussions
of taxation and State grants and seces-
sion.
Other divisions deal with monetary and
banking problems and employment and
wages.
As a compilation of key official papers,
statements and speeches, salted with an
amazing condensation of official figures
and tables, it is a remarkable reference
work.
The analysis of the trade position in
the introduction is interesting in the light
of recent clumsy tariff developments. It
is pointed out that imports increased
from £44,000,000 sterling in 1931-32 to
£72,000,000 in 1934-35, but are still well
below pre-depression-year totals. Mer-
chandise exports expanded in the same
period from £75,000,000 sterling to
£B2,ooo,ooo—they had been £90,000,000
the year before, but there was a drop
owing to falling prices. These move-
ments, with a yearly interest obligation
of £24,000,000 sterling overseas, threw
balances out of gear, and a trade surplus
of £20,000,000 in 1933-34 was changed to
a deficit of £15,000,000 in 1934-35. Capi-
tal imports and the holding .in Australia
during the main depression years of un-
remittable trade moneys helped to bring
down interest and stimulate recovery.
But in 1934-35, with development of the
import trade and the fall in export prices,
an era of capital export set in. With
mounting imports, this caused strain on
bank reserves and “seems to be disturb-
ing the stability of our currency vis-a-vis
sterling.”
Recovery, the authors think, has been
accomplished to its present point mainly
through internal measures —reduced tax
rates, expansion of central bank credit
resulting in cheaper money, etc. But only
at the cost of strains and stresses on our
economy.
It is asked whether the expansionist
policy of the past two years can be main-
tained, whether the financial strength of
the Commonwealth has increased rela-
tively to that of the States, and whether
a modification of the Financial Agree-
ment is needed. On these problems there
is dissension as to whether continuance of
cheap money, the maintenance of a fixed
relation between the Australian and
sterling pounds and the maintenance
of Government borrowing at its present
level are practicable or desirable.
On opinion on these matters, the docu-
ments in the book speak for themselves.
Being mostly the outpourings of official
sources they illustrate the grip which poli-
tics has on finance and the present hope-
lessness of getting a stable financial
policy which will consider private enter-
prise first rather than furthering the
muddled programmes of politicians in-
volving wasteful spending, heavy taxa-
tion and interference with private enter-
prise.
It is pointed out that the States are
restive under present conditions. They
have no right to be. The maintenance
of a lot of their powers with reduplica-
tion of authorities is responsible for most
o! their troubles. With education and
transport and some other matters trans-
-1 erred to Commonwealth control, the
taxation burden on as tolerant a set of
taxpayers as ever existed could be con-
siderably reduced without provincialism
suffering very much in its dignity. At
the same time it should result in salutary
economy and unity of policy.
The Federal Acting-Attorney-General
has ordered that the Federal Insurance
Corp., Ltd., and the General Insurance
C orp., Ltd. (the prospectus of which was
criticised in The Bulletin on March
11), be wound up by the Supreme Court
ol: the F.C.T. An inspector was ap-
pointed on June 11 to investigate the
cos. affairs, and Senator Brennan is satis-
fied that in the interests of the public
the cos. should be wound up. Some ol
Judge Lukin’s comments on the promoter
of these concerns (Colliss A. Barrett)
were mentioned in an article on this page
last week.
* * jjc
Australian Glass s meeting has been
held, with no mention of bonus issues
or other such benefits. The market
apparently thought the 2 p.c. lift in the
div. was just a detail; but lifts in div.
rates don’t often go hand-in-hand with
free share-issues. Quotations have
weakened from 945. to 89s. It has, been
the expressed opinion here that admirers
were looking for too much.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, is the most stable in-
dustrial on Australian ’Changes. Dips
in the market have always been suc-
ceeded by prices firmer than before. It
is earning its profits with about £1,250,000
of temporarily “dead” capital on its
books. When Aust. Iron and Steel and
the tinplate works start contributing,
dividend-paying capacity should be still
more assured.
* * * *
Fairymead Sugar is to buy the whole
undertaking of the Maiayta Co., Ltd.,
activities of which are principally copra-
growing in the British Solomons. Price
is 95,000 fully-paid Fairymead £1 shares.
Ihe Maiayta Co. was formed by the
Young Brothers in 1909, when repatria-
tion of Kanaka labor from their Fairy-
mead plantations became necessary by
law. The Maiayta Co. has operated
profitably during the 27 years of its
existence, “and has emerged from the
depression free of debt and with a tidy
surplus of liquid assets.” Though what
recent profits of the acquisition would
represent on the share consideration
hasn’t been mentioned, the chairman
says that “profit-earning possibilities” of
Fairymead should be improved.
; ! : * *
in Melbourne last week:
Australian Glass’s chairman stated that the
co. had 3070 shareholders with an average
holding of 360 shares, and that during last
year the co. employed over 4000 people and
paid about £700,000 in wages.
Maryborough Knitting Mills declared X
p.c. on its ords. and prefs.
The goldmining sharemarket eased decidedly
on Wednesday, especially as regards Victorian
stocks. Central Nell Gwynne dropped to
345. 6d., but recovered to 365. on Thursday.
Deborah dropped to 16s. and recovered to 17s.
Upper Watut (New Guinea) was down slightly:
Irowat (its iirst return is expected shortly)
fluctuated somewhat. Lady Shenton (W.A.)
recovered to 3s. Bd. Lancefield was firmer at
14s. Id.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL DiSGUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS
“Petrified Forest”
A petrol-station-cwm-pub in Okla-
homa’s desert region is the scene of
this fantasia. A hitch-hiker who styles
himself “the last of the intellectuals”
(Leslie Howard) arrives and falls for.the
proprietor’s daughter (Bette Davis). Enter
a gang of killers. In the presence
of these desperadoes a drama is
worked out. Howard has a whimsical
role which requires him to do a great
deal of talking, and puts it over very con-
vincingly. Miss Davis (she’s supposed to
have arty aspirations) plays up well, and
Humphrey Bogart as chief gangster,
Charley Grapewin as a garrulous old
pioneer and Dick Foran as an ex-col-
legiate footballer, general factotum at
the filling station, have congenial roles.
The affair seems to be headed for a happy
ending when it takes a tragical turn.
Howard’s creation of a distinctive charac-
ter lifts the play out of the rut. At
Sydney State.
“Love on a Bet”
Gene Gerrard is the scapegrace
nephew of a meat-packing magnate. He
bets his uncle he can leave New York
in nothing but his underclothes and reach
Los Angeles 15 days later fully clothed
with 100 dollars in his pocket and en-
gaged to a beautiful girl. If he fails
he has to go into uncle’s business at
10,000 bucks a year (which seems high
pay for unskilled labor), and if he wins
he can carry on as a theatrical entrepre-
neur. He gets clothes (how is not quite
clear); foists himself on a girl and her
aunt (Wendy Barrie and Helen Broderick)
who providentially are motoring to Los
Angeles; captures bandits en route and
wins a reward; gets gaoled; gets
bailed ; wins his bet, and then finds that
his bride-to-be insists he must take the
steady job uncle offers. Gerrard is in
good form, Miss Broderick’s wisecracks
are as frequent as ever, and Miss Barrie
is charming. One of the best comedies
of this year’s crop. Also at Sydney State.
“The Farmer in the Dell”
This is a “Saturday Evening Post”
story about an elderly Agriculturist who
Sky-rocketed to Fame while his Attrac-
tive Daughter was Spurned.
When the masterful Ma Boyer (Esther
Dale) develops ambitions as the mother
of a potential screen star there is only
one thing for Pa Boyer (Fred Stone) to
do. So the sound of the auctioneer’s
hammer is heard in the land, and the
family migrate to Hollywood. Father
and daughter Adie (Jean Parker) un-
willingly storm the celluloid citadel, and
when they wander on to a set the direc-
tor (Moroni Olsen) becomes interested—
but only in the old man. He is “dis-
covered” as a natural rube, and achieves
minor stardom. Maw is disgusted at
Adie’s knockback, but seeks consolation
by buying a mansion and limousine and
hitting the high spots. Paw is easy to
manage, but when his spouse tries to
sidetrack Adie’s affections from her
homely grocer-swain to a spurious
Rooshian prince the new headliner puts
his foot down heavily, and Maw trembles
like a blancmange in an earthquake.
Maternal ambition is buried, and the lad
behind the counter ousts the pretended
owner of a palace at Tairyazifoff.
Fred Stone is a straw-chewing hick to
the life. His technique closely resembles
that of Will Rogers. Esther Dale does
fairly well as a mother with ideas, and
Jean Parker is a balm to eye and ear.
Frank Albertson and Moroni Olsen are
satisfactory. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Country Beyond”
One of James Oliver Curwood’s fairy
tales about the Frozen North done into
a talkie. Scenery and props used in “Call
of the Wild” come in handy ; so do the
dogs, including the talented Buck. A
handsome young corporal of the Can-
adian Mounted Police (Robert Kent)
joins an outback station and at once falls
foul of his sergeant (Paul Kelly). Open-
ing sequences are in “Lives of a Bengal
Lancer” vein, but as soon as the goil
(Rochelle Hudson) appears on the scene
the well-worn skidways of melodrama
carry the affair to its foregone conclu-
sion. Alan Dinehart as a fur-stealing
villain and Alan Hale as the heroine’s
papa are well cast, and the behavior of
the dogs, especially Buck, is an engaging
feature. At Sydney Capitol.
“CRIME AND PUNISHMENT,” AT SYDNEY PLAZA.
Edward Arnold as the chief of police; Peter Lorre as the criminal.
“Crime and Punishment”
This screen version of Dostoievsky’s
powerful story is prefaced by a caption
to the effect that no particular country
or period is represented, and, save that
the chief of police (called “inspector”) sits
in a chair embellished with the double
eagle, there is no Russian flavor in the
settings. But the central character, the
bitter, cynical, grimly-humorous univer-
sity graduate, with his alternations of
cowardice and daring, is essentially Con-
tinental. Peter Lorre, a Hungarian actor,
who takes this part, is a type new to the
screen, and has the rare capacity of in-
vesting his most trivial words and actions
with significance. The story is unfolded
simply and straightforwardly, and its
dramatic ingredients are well preserved.
Edward Arnold is at his impressive best
in the role of the police inspector;
Marian Marsh charmingly provides the
romantic flavor, and the female pawn-
broker, played by Mrs. Pat Campbell, is
another notable character. At Sydney
Plaza.
“And So They Were Married”
Grown-up parts in this clever comedy
are taken by Mary Astor and Melvyn
Douglas, both in congenial roles, but
the acting honors go to a pair of kids,
girl and boy. Miss Astor is a divorcee,
Douglas a widower, thrown together at
a winter resort. When it appears that
they are attracted to each other her small
daughter and his small son, strongly dis-
approving, plot to upset the match and
succeed. But they find their respective
parents so unsatisfactory to live with
thereafter that they plot again to bring
them together (“in Their Hour of Need,”
as the small girl solemnly puts it). In-
cidentally, they bring them together in
police cells, arrested on a charge of kid-
napping. The title tells the result. Also at
Sydney Plaza.
“Ah, Wilderness!”
A satisfying film, based on the O’Neill
play. Acting, down to the most insignifi-
cant role, is good, and the picture flows
smoothly under the deft touch of Clar-
ence Brown. Rural settings are delightful.
“What a young man should know” is
the theme, and the story based upon it
is simple and straightforward. It is that
of a youth and his love for a shy, un-
sophisticated girl. Her father disapproves
of the passionate screeds (mostly poetry
borrowed from Swinburne) that he
sends her, and forces her to write him a
discouraging letter. On the rebound he
goes with a pal to a hotel one evening
and dallies awhile, quite harmlessly ex-
cept for some unaccustomed drink with
a questionable “lady.” On his arrival
home his father is greatly concerned, but
Pa is relieved on learning the facts, and
starts to relate the Facts of Life. This
is handled so delicately that a mid-Vic-
torian maiden aunt couldn’t cavil at it.
Everything is straightened out, and recon-
ciliation with the lad’s sweetheart follows.
The film’s chief charm lies in the
intimate family scenes, notably a dinner,
an uproarious affair in which Wallace
Beery as the bibulous Uncle Sid forgets
his manners, but is beerily apologetic.
Lionel Barrymore in the role of pater-
familias, is a delight, and Wallace
Beery is at home as the carefree and
popular uncle. Aline McMahon does
sound work as an aunt with a weakness
for the many-times-repentant Sid. Eric
Linden and Cecilia Parker handle the
juvenile roles with skill. Mickey Rooney
is the kid brother. At Sydney Civic.
“Last of the Pagans”
This unusual film, set in the South
Seas, is in native dialect, with a transcrip-
tion thrown on to the screen. The tropic-
island scenes are magnificent, and it is
worth seeing for these alone
It is a tale of what amounts to black-
birding by an unscrupulous phosphate co.
among a race of light-skinned natives.
Taro is betrothed to Lillio, and when a
recruiting schooner arrives at the island
the native chief, who also has his eye on
the lady, has Taro shanghaied and sent
to the mines. There he saves the life of
an official, and as reward Lillio, who
meanwhile has been forced to marry the
chief, is brought to him. The chief’s
wrath is aroused, and the co., not wishing
to antagonise him, arranges to send her
back. Before the schooner sails a terrific
storm comes up, and in the confusion
the lovers escape, to later get away and
start life afresh in another isle.
Malo, the Eskimo, is the chief actor,
and he does very well. But the only
thing that matters is the fine setting.
Also at the Civic.
“Line Engaged”
In this film Gregan McMahon’s “dis-
covery,” Coral Brown, returns to Mel-
bourne by way of the Athenaeum screen.
Coral’s part is a minor role ; she’s a
vamp, Doreen, looks suitably sinful and
speaks her lines in a hard-boiled manner,
but the camera does not flatter her early
twenties, for she looks middle-aged. The
plot deals with a young woman un-
happily married to a blackmailer who
gets himself murdered. There is much
interchanging of revolvers (service and
automatic). Heroine Jane Baxter, Bram-
well Fletcher as a curly-headed pansy
author and Arthur Wontner as a police
official, his father, run round in circles
trying to save one another. Also in the
tangle is Mary Clare as the girl’s mother,
who knows more about the crime than
one would expect. Kathleen Harrison
puts over some broad comedy as the
maid.
Some First Nights
Tenor Richard Crooks has been
enjoying the crowded audiences Sydney
can always produce in honor of a
musician whose reputation has been
established abroad, and his season at the
Town Hall has been extended by another
three recitals. On Saturday he excelled
himself in a group of Schubert’s songs.
It may be, as has been alleged, that these
lieder have gone out of favor in Europe,
but Mr. Crooks supplied cogent argn
ments why they should still be sung.
Highlights of Eileen Joyce’s short
broadcast recital on Saturday were her
playing of Scarlatti’s D Major “Sonata”
(these pieces are sonatas only in the sense
that Handel and other contemporary
composers of Italianate music used the
term) and a Mozart adagio. She infused an
astonishing amount of vitality and grace
into the rather dry bones of the Scarlatti,
and her Mozart-playing proved, as was to
be expected, delightful. Some atmo-
spheric pieces by Debussy were without
form and void as they came through this
critic’s receiver, but Ravel’s swirling
representation of water in motion was
cleverly rendered.
On the well-known principle that
distance lends enchantment while famili-
arity breeds contempt, when a celebrity
stays long in Melbourne he is apt to
become less celebrated. This was not
the case on Saturday night at the
“Celebrity” concert at the Town Hall,
when a huge audience followed Tossy
Spivakovsky’s violin with breathless in-
terest as it threaded its way through the
great concerto of Brahms, Op. 77, appear-
ing and disappearing and appearing
again with enchanting clarity and ease,
breasting the waves of sound set up by
the full orchestra until it came back


a
wmWm
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
SAIL inter SUMMER DAYS
*
■jm
for the lands of
ETERNAL SUNSHINE
THE JULY SAILING of the
N'ieuw Zeeland calls at Boele-
leng for the purpose of dis-
em bar kins passengers for the
trip through Bali.
THE AUGUST SAILING of the
Nieuw Holland calls at Banda —
the Spice Island —famed tile
world over for the fairy-like
fantastic beauty of its coral sea
gardens—no extra fare.
First-class return rates from
Sydney and Brisbane £67/10/-
to Java, and £75 to Singapore—
no Exchange—including call at
Bali for disembarking pas-
sengers only (July sailing) and
call at Banda (August sailing).
John Sanderson & Co, Me bourne;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ;
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
Royal Packet Navigation Co.,
I’uket vaail House, 255 (ieorge Street. Sydney
K.P.M
GREAT
WHITE
YACHTS
I
K.P.M.
LINE
NEURITIS
BANISHED
Business Man
tells Amazing
Story of Health
Regained ....
"Neuritis made my life a misery. Aches
and pains stabbed and wracked every
limb ... my friend said I looked more
dead than alive—and, believe me, he
was right. He suggested I seek expert
advice—l'm glad I did. The things I
learnt amazed me."
"The colon, clogged with fermenting
food waste, is a breeding ground for
bacteria. These germs get into the
blood stream—play havoc with the en-
tire body . . . they attack delicate
nerve-endings—causing neuritis."
m
"The only way to end the trouble was
to clean the colon and stimulate the in-
testinal muscles. 1 was advised to take
COLOSEPTIC. It quickly put me on my
feet. Now I feel like a two-year-old."
Coloseptic banishes neuritis because it
removes the basic cause which is Self
Poisoning (or Autoxima) brought about
by a clogged colon. Clear this putre-
fying waste and agonising neuritis
vanishes. Experts agree Coloseptic is
the sure, safe way, because it also tones
up the kidneys, the respiratory system,
and the pores of the skin. These are
the other organs which eliminate poisons
from the body.
FREE BOOK
End neuritis with Coloseptic. At all
chemists. If unobtainable locally, write
to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell
Street, Sydney. Clip coupon for sample
and intimate booklet on Autoxima—
post to-day.
Coloseptic
CLIP OUT
(ioloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 o*Lomiell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE booh on Autoxima.
Also send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC , for which l enclose !/•
in penny stamps .
NAME
ADDRESS
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition,)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints lor Owner Driver*
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, O/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
again, like a lone swimmer, in a cadenza
or an exquisite piece of passage work;
then being submerged again and coming
up once more to embellish a theme pre-
sented by the bassoons and lower strings.
The ovation which followed the perform-
ance recalled the days when Tossy’s slim
figure stood alone on the platform, a
fleeting apparition from foreign parts.
For encore he played a Capriccio which
Paganini composed apparently with the
intention of giving the world a work so
difficult that nobody but himself could
play it. Tossy steered his way through
its entanglements with skill, and the audi-
ence’s gratitude sent him home happy to
bed.
The second half was given over to
Elgar’s Symphony in A Flat Major, Op.
55. It was long and diffuse, but full of
unexpected beauties, especially in the
adagio and in the lento that begins the
final allegro. Percy Code, guest con-
ductor from the A.8.C., was most at
home in the marching rhythms that
stamp a typically Elgarian work ; but his
conducting in the Brahms was also as
nice as could be wished.
.T. A »?« .!.
Tariff restrictions and wool embargoes
seemed not to dismay the “Gentlemen
of Japan” when they introduced them-
selves and “The Mikado” once more to
a Melbourne audience at His Majesty’s
on Saturday night, after returning from
(according to Ivan Menzies) a tour of
the Antarctic. The only alteration in the
company since last year is that Evelyn
Hall has stepped into the sandals of
Katisha, just vacated by Evelyn Gardiner.
She has a fine contralto voice and a
good sense of the dramatic, and she sus-
tained this difficult part very well indeed.
Ivan Ko-Ko fooled in his usual Menzie-
ish manner to the equal enjoyment of his
audience and himself, Richard Watson
as Pooh-Bah sneered admirably, while
Bernard Manning’s Mikado was the acme
of sinister dignity. Pish-Tush (Gregory
Stroud) deserves special mention for pro-
ficiency in fan-waggling.
•I- -I- v
James Bridie’s “The Black Eye,” pre-
sented by the Independent Theatre at the
Sydney Savoy, is an amusing portrayal
of a happy-go-lucky, middle-class Scot-
tish family. The father, a businessman
on the verge of bankruptcy, is a mild
ruler ; the mother is an easygoing soul.
One son, John, is a plodder; the other,
George, a drifter. There are two
daughters, but they count for little. The
play depicts the efforts of George to
obtain a vaguely-defined freedom from
his family, to whom, nevertheless, he is
genuinely attached. In the end he does
gain a certain independence and the
respect of his family, but this is owing to
a stroke of good fortune—he wins a
large sum by gambling. The thing also
records, less cleverly, the defeat of John’s
fiancee, who attempts to reform the
family. As George, William Gates played
with easy naturalness, and Alfred
Race, Betty Higgins, Jean Mort, Leslie
Hay-Simpson, John Stacy and William
Hume all gave good accounts of them-
selves. Doris Fitton was the producer.
4* -I- -r -S-
Some of the best music in Melbourne
is heard at the Assembly Hall, and there
is an absence beforehand of the big
drums of publicity. Hyman Lenzer,
Franz Schieblich, Mischa Kogan and
Mederic Fraillon, comprising the
recently-formed Victorian String Quar-
tet, essayed the Dohnanyi quartet, Op.
15, No. 2, one night last week, and there
was evidence of elaborate rehearsal in
the playing of this lovely work. Doh-
nanyi’s composition strikes a strong,
noble note, and it was not out of place on
a programme which included quintets by
Schubert and Brahms. The Schubert
quintet, which for some ungodly reason
has been surnamed “The Trout,” had the
services of Elsie Fraser at the piano.
Like her colleagues of the string instru-
ments, she gave the impression of not
having left anything to chance.
* * -I* *
The talented young lady who calls her-
self La Meri repeated the collection of
international dances, of the previous Sat-
urday night at the King’s last week, and
also made excursions into fresh foreign
lands. It may be racial prejudice or some-
thing of the sort, but the present reviewer
has strong preferences and dislikes in the
matter of the international dance. For
instance, he did not care for La Meri a
bit when she appeared in Spanish dress
with the inevitable castanets. Nor did
he care for her overmuch as a Chinese
or a Jap. There was a gawkiness about
her movements as if a piece of machinery
were making a painful effort to come to
life. “The White Peacock,” on the other
hand, was of loveliness all compact, and
he greatly preferred it to that self-pitying
fowl the “Swan.” An item of interest was
the Dance Javanese, performed ostensibly
by La Meri as at the Javanese Court, by
the Sultan’s command. According to the
programme, these dances have no climax
and could be stopped at any time with-
out interfering with the general effect.
This is quite true, as the present writer
can bear out from his own experience,
having studied the international dance on
the spot himself. Out of consideration
for Oriental ideas of etiquette, he has sat
out one of these dances for a matter of
five or six hours ; it could certainly have
been stopped anywhere, but if it had been
stopped after an hour or two the general
effect on the audience would have been
one of intense relief. La Meri was wise
enough to give no more than a snapshot
at the King’s, and it left a definitely
pleasing impression on the eye and mind.
Despite the inconsequential plot, a
crackling barrage of hilarious by-play
and some humorous characterisation
make the domestic comedy “The Forrest
Family,” a first effort by Paul Johnstone,
a Sydney man, entertaining stuff. The
moving spirit is Ma Forrest, a quaint
admixture of sombre geniality and self-
centredness. Her hobby is helping the
love affairs of her marriageable
daughters. It’s when one of the hussies
steps into matrimony off her own bat
that trouble starts. The Wedgewood
Players set a smart tempo in their pro-
duction at St. James’s Hall. Dorothy
Whitely as the squabbling wife and Veta
Barrett, all pert sophistication as an
impish juvenile sister, were centres of
gaiety, while Edward Humphery bowed
to his spouse’s whims with amusing
meekness. The author, who produced the
piece also, portrayed a particularly dumb
suitor. Others who kept the merriment
simmering were Myra Fuller, Gordon
Patrick and Helen Kent.
* *l*
Elgar’s “Dream of Gerontius” had a
performance last week by the choir and
orchestra of Sydney Con. The work,
which is of oratorio proportions, depends
for due effect upon precise and skilful
choral handling and ability on the part
of the soloists to bring out the dramatic
import of their lines. These requirements
were scarcely fulfilled. Order of merit
was choir 1, soloists 2, orchestra 3 ; and
the general effect was dull. As a curtain-
raiser, the orchestra went through
Haydn’s “Letter V” symphony. There
was some nice playing in the slow second
movement, but the minuet and concluding
allegro sounded very trivial. The fault
may be Haydn’s, but, remembering what
Eileen Joyce did with one of his de-
spised piano sonatas, it’s a very doubtful
doubt.
Current Artbursts
The most accurate records of the
appearance of haphazard, conglomerated
Sydney are not products of the camera
they come from the pencil and brush
of Sydney Ure Smith. That he loves
the city and appreciates its flavor is
evident in all the many pictures he has
made in it. A small selection of his latest
drawings, on view at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, Sydney, includes, in addition to
some rural studies (all charming), 14
drawings of the Sydney scene. These
drawings in pencil, though tinted rather
than colored, nevertheless give a more
correct impression of the characteristic
hues of the city and its harbor than do
paintings in which the color-range is fully
explored. As to form, Mr. Smith's
draughtsmanship is as much a delight to
the observer as it must be to himself.
But color-suggestion and draughtsman-
ship are only means to an end. The end
is triumphantly attained in such draw-
ings as “Wylde-street, Potts Point,” “The
Harbor from Potts Point,” “Hyde Park I
Barracks,” “Carthona” (Surveyor-General
Thomas Mitchell built the old grey house |
on Darling Point, and Earl Beauchamp !
was for a while, a tenant), and “The Old
Mint.” These enshrine not only the out-
ward form but the spirit of the scenes
depicted. It is the spirit of the Sydney
of the third and fourth Georges’ and of
Victoria’s reign, and one of the strongest
elements in Sydney’s charm.
*l* 4* *l* -I*
East Sydney Technical College’s art
departments show at Farmer’s Blaxland
Gallery, Sydney, made a very interesting
exhibition. Under Rayner Hoff’s regis
originality is not a crime to be stamped
out, but a precious bud to be nurtured
into flower. The director is a sculptor,
and four of his pupils—Elizabeth Blax-
land, who showed an adorable infant boy ;
Jean Broome, whose “Amazons,” a four-
figure group, had grace and dignity ; Beth
Macdonald, who submitted a half-size
nude female figure (decidedly not ideal-
ised) ; and Marjorie Fletcher, who was i
represented by a workmanlike torso —
kept up the reputation of the school in
this field. In the graphic sphere students
who exhibited were so numerous that only
a few can be mentioned. Frank Norton,
whose “Sixteen Knots” was a bright spot
in last year’s show, explored the naval
vein again in “Morning Watch,” and had
in addition a mural and two clever posters
to his credit. Helena Boden’s exhibits
included a very effective woven “Greek
Panel” and a meritorious poster of Sie-
men’s lamps. Dorothy Senior’s mural
design “Canada,” plaster plaque “Diana” j*
and tapestry design “Flight” struck the'
eye pleasantly, and Beverley Jenkins’s 1
three murals and one stained-glass win- i
dow design were full of promise. Prettiest !
of the life-class gleanings was J. Ack-
land’s nude —a brown young lady—but
there was a great deal of good, conscien- |
tious work in this section. Joyce Wilson’s
mural "Icarus” was a nice piece of com-
position, and Norman Knibbs showed
a flair for illustration in “Treasure
Hunters.”
* 4* *
At Sydney National Gallery is a
show of prints designed for the British
Museum’s Print Room, and sent travel-
ling through Australasia beforehand by
the Empire Art Loan Collections Society.
The renaissance of wood-engraving is 1
recognised by the inclusion in the col- j
lection of specimens of the work of John
Austen, Alec Buckets, C. F. Tunnicliffe,
Eric Dalglish, Eric Gill and others who
have made a name in this field. Lionel
Lindsay and a Canadian, W. J. Phillips,
are thought worthy of inclusion, and their
work is as good as any. Line-engraving
on copper is being revived as a medium
of art expression, and some beautiful
work by Stanley Anderson and William
Washington is shown. The lino,
block gets a look in with examples j
in color by Anne Clarke, Ronald
Grierson, Cyril E. Power and others.
Most vigorous piece of work in
this section is by a Russian, YJia Sokolov,
whose “Lacemaker” could scarcely be
improved upon in any medium. Etchings,
aquatints and dry points are shown by
the score. An Italian, Benvenuto Diser-
tori, has a scene that glows with mellow
sunshine. Dame Laura Knight’s
“Gemini” (an aquaintint) is delightful.
Clever, sparing use of color is demon-
strated in the aquatints of Max Pollok,
an Austrian now domiciled in the U.S.A.
Henry Rushbury puts some superb archi-
tectural drawing into a couple of dry
points. E. L. Pattinson is represented by
a colored etching of exquisite quality.
There are lithographs of merit from the
pencils of Pearl Binder, Edmund Blam-
pied, Ethel Gabain and A. S. Hartrick,
and Lucien Pissaro is shown in a new
mood in a couple of dainty little English
scenes. They’re in water-color, but the
brush has been used like a crayon.


WE OFFER
WHAT I
Mott I
People
Desire
Homely com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney,
IT iTi It
Hu!
WENTWORTH ftotel
BRIDGE PARK
SYDNEY
BUiStil
A
medicinal
preparation
—not a
confection
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOI"
JUJUBES
For Coughs.
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Kepr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, IG-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dark-blue shoes were the most popular
footwear on Saturday at Randwick. Of
course, they were worn only with blue
dress or suit, but blue was the most re-
curring color. There was a promise of
spring in' the sunshine, and many women
discarded topcoats and depended for
warmth on the fur slung across the
shoulder. Furs were luxurious, but
nobody showed such originality as Mrs.
John Fuller. Her black caped suit
had a silver fox curled cosily on each
shoulder and one at the back. Down the
front of the cape fell the fox taiis. A
chinchilla collar and a blue suit showed
up Mrs. Sam Hardy’s good complexion ;
a full-length coat of dyed ermine covered
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s coral-red
dress. Her hat, one of the few brimmed
ones present, was of black velvet.
Mrs. R. A. Eakin’s suit showed a
raised grey stripe on a brown ground.
Lily-of-the-valley and a brown-and-grey
scarf were added smartness. Mrs. Hans
Fay, wife of Norway’s Consul-General,
looked very tailored in deep-blue angora
flecked with white, the frock finished
with a military cape that had an upstand-
ing collar. A green blouse and hat fin-
ished off Mrs. W. Kelso’s pink angora
suit; Roma McCallum was a pretty girl
in lake-blue angora and a black felt hat';
Mrs. Roy Chisholm’s black suit was
aided and abetted by silver fox and lily-
of-the-valley ; black was worn by Mrs.
Dundas Allen and the Langer Owen
lady; Mrs. J. Phillips, of Melbourne,
sported dyed ermine and hyacinths;
Philippa Stephen’s navy hat matched the
stripe in her grey suit; Parma-violet
frieze was Mrs. Harold Weigall’s choice.
What a fine birthday party tenor
Richard Crooks had! He arrived at his
concert to find the doors of the Town
Hall flaunting the “House Full” sign. He
sang romance and drama to an audience
so tightly packed that not another human
sardine could have squeezed in, and after
that he was carried off for a birthday
party at Romano’s. The Ernest Lash-
mars were his hosts, and the curtain
wasn’t rung down till three o’clock in the
morning. The F. J. Davys were there,
her complexion radiant above Parma-
violet velvet; the Harald Bowdens and
daughter Joyce, the E. J. Taits, and the
sparkling Maria Eisner, the Viennese
star of “Gypsy Princess,” her pink chif-
fons all accordion-pleated. Mrs. Crooks’s
lame frock was worthy her mink cape.
Daughter Patricia was slimness in
geranium red. The hostess wore a trail-
ing frock of burgundy crepes.
Polo at Kyeemagh ended on Saturday
in a burst of sunshine that was spring-
like compared with the lowering skies of
midweek. All the polo diehards were
again in the field, many of them having
the latest Randwick news from the wire-
less in their cars. Later on crowds of
them turned up at the home of the James
Ashtons, senior, in Double Bay. The
Town and Country team, which includes
two of the four polo-playing Ashtons,
had got off with the Dudley Cup. The
late-afternoon party was a great success.
All the teams and their friends were
among those gathered around the great
log fires in the reception-rooms.
The King’s Birthday Honors list pinned
an 0.8. E. on Mrs. Zara Aronson. This
is particularly interesting to women
writers in Australia, as Mrs. Aronson
was for many years one of this city’s
leading presswomen. From her able pen
still come articles for Australian and
English papers. Mrs. Aronson has
worked consistently for charity, and has a
fine record of war work. One of her suc-
cessful efforts is a cookery book which
she compiled and edited for the Junior
Red Cross, and which has put more than
£5OO to the Juniors’ credit. She founded
the Society of Women Writers and the
first “John o’ London’s” Literary Circle
in Australia. For six years Mrs. Aron-
son was State secretary of the N.C.W.
This is swimmer Andrew Charlton’s
affianced. She is Jessie Hyles, of Goul-
burn, a keen golfer who was in Sydney
last week playing in the Country Week
championship. Andrew, Australia’s one-
time swimming representative at Olym-
piads, expects to hear his wedding bells
very soon. Dayne photo.
Jewels are once more being worn.
Maybe women think it is safer for the
family diamond and pearl to keep an eye
on them than to leave them at
home at the mercy of any Raffles.
Anyway pearls and diamonds turned up
at the Country Women’s Ball in Pad-
dington Town Hall. Flowers, too, arrived
in great profusion, though one group of
smart youngsters completely ignored
garden products. Perhaps the night of
the gardenia in the hair is. past. Pad-
dington’s civic stronghold is coyly de-
signed with a special room for sitting
out. The only warmth there last Fri-
day night was the poinsettia, and in that
temperature the most ardent flame would
have blown cold.
In the ballroom the different parties
gathered about little tables, but supper
was in the room for that purpose. This
was served hot from ten o’clock till
cockcrow. The walls here were lined
with green palms, but in the ballroom
poinsettia was the dominant note. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, who organised the show,
glittered with midnight-blue sequins on
the hem and the cowled shoulder line of
her black crepes, wore pearls, and was
helped in entertaining a party of 30 by
son Vincent. State president Mrs. Matt
Sawyer had the Acting-Premier Bruxners
in her party. Mrs. Sawyer’s rich black
moires were lit with diamonds.
Mrs. Mervyn Finlay’s pink crepes
were silver; her black velvet cloak gold-
patterned. Its upstanding collar was gold.
Gay Curtis wore lily-of-the-valley on her
black velvet dress. With her ice-blue
satins Sybil Hinder wore a black cape
lined with lilac; Anne Gordon’s gold
shoes twinkled under peacock-green
satin; Mary Hordern’s cape was chin-
chilla ; Daisy Osborne’s chiffons were the
pinky gold of a sunset cloud, and were
accordion-pleated throughout; tall Joan
Marks wore cornelian-red velvet. A
diamond bow shone in the hair of Mrs.
A. E. Hordern (London). Mrs. H. C.
Mclntyre’s pink-and-silver matelasse
frock wore a looped drape at its right
shoulder. A coronet of hyacinths and
lavender crowned Mrs. Ray Powell’s
tresses.
To practise what she preaches, the
wear-more-wool Mrs. Toby Browne
appeared in a softly-woven pale-blue-and-
silver wool frock, girdled it with flowers
and on her shoulders had a cape of white
lamb’s skin. Very effective.
Consuls, among them the good-looking
Hans Fay, came gallant and debonair to
Sydney Ure Smith’s show in the
Grosvenor Galleries. This is the first ex-
hibition held by the president of the
Society of Artists for 10 years, and the
trustees of the National Gallery (Syd. is
one of the brotherhood) turned up to a
man to honor him. They brought cash as
well as credit, for three of them. John
Lane Mullins, Howard Hinton and Lionel
Lindsay, bought “The Old Mint, Mac-
quarie-street,” for the Gallery, while an-
other trustee enriched the nation’s art
treasures by a gift of “The Harbor from
Potts Point.” Apart from their charm,
these drawings will make splendid bits
of pictorial history when Sydney of to-
day has been swallowed in progress. An
audience all fashion and furbelows in
spite of polo, Barbara Warry’s wedding
and a perfect avalanche of small parties
listened to Lionel Lindsay’s opening
remarks. Particularly likeable was the
celestial fox that collared the McKelvey
lady’s coat and curled about the tops of
her sleeves. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones’s
hat was black, flat of crown, straight of
brim.
Harry Dangar and his bride have
found the glories of Asia doubly so
in the light of their honeymoon. They
return by the Nieuw Zeeland next week,
and they have sent invitations ahead of
them for a breakfast party on board the
ship.
Ruby Storey, M.8.E., is another on
whom congratulations are pouring.
From 1914 to 1935 Miss Storey was
secretary of the Randwick Red Cross,
and for the last year, since the re-
tirement of her mother, she has been
its president. In addition, Ruby is
acting-director of the Junior Red Cross
during the absence abroad of Mrs.
Macarthur Onslow. In all these long-
after-the-war years Miss Storey’s interest
in the soldier patients at the Randwick
Hospital has never faltered.
Among the week’s cocktail parties was
a farewell to the J. H. Vose couple, of
Vaucluse. This was given by Mrs. K.
Slessor, and, in addition to a flame of
poinsettia, a miniature Mariposa in the
club’s red, blue and gold was a decora-
tive flower piece. The club’s president,
W. J. Bradley, K.C., dropped in for a
parting toast. Mr. and Mrs. Vose are
off to America and England for 12
months or so.
This bright smile was one of the
reasons for the success of “Mulligan of
the Mounted,” an Australian play pro-
duced by the Empire Drama League at
the Little Theatre last Monday. The
subject of the Camera Craft photo, is
Anne Grahame.
There were more “going-ons” than
goings-on at the cocktail party given by
the A.B.C. to welcome Howard Jacobs
and his dance-band experts. The how-
d’ye-do was set between polo and a whirl
of private dinner-dance parties, and the
goers-on arrived between six and seven
in trailing robe and flower-decked head,
The band plays jazz with an English
accent. It ignores the undue clamor of
ultra-hotcha stuff, but can be torrid and
languorous by turn. It made the toes
of its first audience in Sydney curl and
wriggle.
At one moment it almost looked as
though the A.B.C.’s Mr. Horner and Dr.
Barry were about to snatch up mega-
phones and shout “On with the dance.”
But they didn’t, and the floor of the Aus-
tralia ballroom remained unpolluted
except by an occasional dropped olive
stone or cigarette ash. Art, music and
drama, plus mere butterflies, sipped the
flowing bowl and listened to the sort of
music to which the British peerage and
American millionaires dance at the Dor-
chester and the Savoy. Among the girls
Beatrice Meeks looked as fresh and
glowing as any, Anne Gordon wore
Cambodian-red marquisette, Mollie Grey
was furred up to the ears, and little blue-
eyed and blonde Gay Seabrooke sparkled
along.
A giant red umbrella bobbed about in
the murk vainly trying to shelter arrivals
to the Polo Tea. But the rain fell and
the wind blew, and many of the younger
women waited for no umbrella, but made
a flying jump, worthy of Olympia, for
the doorway of Elizabeth Bay House.
This was the really big corroboree of
the Dudley Cup week, and all inviteds
turned up, even those whose hardihood
had blenched at the idea of going out
to Kyeemagh on such a wild and stormy
day. Margaret Allen, Joan Waddell,
Banker Riddle’s lady and daughter Enid,
and Mrs. Crawford Robertson were
hostesses who were at their posts by
four-thirty, though it was fully an hour
later before the party had got into its
stride.
Margaret Allen’s suit was coral red.
Joan Waddell, one of the hatless, had a
scarf gay with Roman stripes about the
neckline of her black velvet tunic frock.
As blue-clad Enid Riddle passed, the
fragrance of daphne was wafted. In addi-
tion, of course, she wore a pink carna-
tion in honor of Edward VIII. So did
her mother, hers bright against the back-
ground of black satin suit; Mrs. Craw-
ford Robertson in navy also flew the
flower of loyalty. Barbara Warry, a
bride of the following day, spent her
wedding eve in company with some of
her ’maids at the “do.” Barbara’s coat
was of brown broadtail; her upturned
brown hat wore two saucy flowers on its
crown. Mrs. Venour Nathan’s muff was
a jaunty finish to a black outfit; so was
the plaited white braid collar of her
dress.
There was dancing on the green-
awninged verandahs, where the pillars
with impartiality were twined with the
colors of all the competing teams. In
the hall rum punch was ladled from an
enormous bowl to all-comers, and in the
dining-room was a bewildering array of
savories intersected with bubbly bowls of
amber and blue, through which the great
yellow eyes of nasturtiums gazed at the
party.
Once more Paddington Town Hall
swings into favor with Sydney dancers.
The dance of the Palm Beach Life-
saving Club proved this to the hilt. This
was one of the smart dances of last week,
and in spite of stormy weather drew the
young and the gay out to the spot popu-
lar with Sydney of the ’nineties. A few
drops more rain and the Palm Beach
lifesavers would have been called into
active service ; as it was, some of the joy-
makers dashed from car to hall in knee-
high rubber boots, and some, Maori-
wise, flung a rug around their finery.
June Munro’s earrings of natural flowers
will probably start a pretty fashion. Hers
were made of a baby rosebud and
daphne. Her frock of rosy taffeta had
a Victorian off-the-shoulder line and a
spreading skirt; Alix Lamb’s black
chiffons over deep blue suggested a night
cloud ; Mrs. Dan Carroll’s head was all
golden curls, and her frock of black
velvet was long and flowing; cobalt-blue
matelasse patterned in gold made Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax’s dress. Club president
John Ralston brought his wife, who lit
her blue satin outfit with a pair of very
long and dazzling earrings.
Esmey Burfitt in blue and silver
brocade, pink carnations in the button-
hole of almost every man in honor of
the King’s Birthday, and a great rally of
medical men were features of the ball
for Lewisham Hospital, which brought
over 600 dancers to the Blaxland Gal-
leries. The president of the committee
was Mrs. M. J. O’Neill, who hostessed a
large official party. Mrs. Walter Burfitt
carried a very large green feather fan to
match the drapings of her beige chiffon
frock. Ice-blue and raven’s-wing blue
were united in Miss K. Egan’s laces.
Mrs. A. Oxenham, who was there with
her doctor, was a gleam of silver lame
and jewelled belt.
The Strathnaver brought Rosemary de
Sausmarez to Sydney last week. She is a
cousin to Lady Anderson, the wife of
this State’s Governor-designate, Sir
Murray Anderson. While in Australia
she will act as private secretary to Lady
Anderson. She is young, a brunette, and
daughter to General Cecil de Sausmarez,
whose home is in Guernsey.


KIDNEYS EXPEL
3lbs. WASTE DAILY
—lf Not, there’s Trouble !
When urination is difficult, scanty, thick or clouded
• —if burning, smarting, irritation causes worry—if
backaches, groin pains, stiff, -swollen joints, feet,
knuckles and ankles, rheumatism, night disturbances,
dizziness, etc., are causing you to lose vitality—take
HARRISON’S PILLS. This proven remedy brings
fastest known safe aid to raw, inflamed, weakened
kidneys and bladder. Thus, with renewed strength,
uric acidity and other pain-causing menaces depart,
and the pep of 10 years ago returns. Harrison’s Pills,
sold by leading Chemists, cost 2/-, 3/—, 5/- (large
sizes more economical). If any difficulty, send order,
adding 3d. postage, to The “Owl” Pharmacy, Aus-
tralia’s leading suppliers of Medical Requirements,
Martin Place, Sydney.
HARRISOH’S PILLS RESTORE
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
t<: The <JM.acleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
m
IS
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Melbourne
Chatter
As always, the Leg. Council Chamber
was packed for the opening of Parliament.
The number of ticket-holders always ex-
ceeds the number of seats, so those who
take no risks about standing throughout
the ceremony arrive (if their only entree
is a white card) about three-quarters of
an hour before the ceremony commences
—for there is no chivalry when the Gov-
ernment puts on its party clothes and
announces to the world that it is ready
to run the country. Men and women
are equals, and men with chairs or
sections of bench stick to their posses-
sions.
This year’s ceremony was shorter than
usual ; in all only half an hour was
spent on the ritual and on Lord Hunting-
field’s reading of the measures which
will be discussed during the session.
That friendly soul Baron Marks
arrived bright and early and presented
each of the two large policemen on duty
with bags of barley-sugar; the third bag
he kept for himself and dipped into now
and again for sustenance. The Govern-
ment of Victoria does not put on tea for
all and sundry. Guests must be invited
by members to partake of scones, ginger
nuts and sponge cakes behind the portals
of the “strangers’-room.” Among the
small party of guests that Stanley
Argyle and his lady entertained in a
private room were Richard Linton and
his lady, receiving felicitations upon the
new handle to their name. They have
been away three years, but say the time
feels much longer. Among the many
women who wore violets was Mrs. Dun-
stan. wife of the Premier, who pinned
her bunch of purple to sable furs.
Dances at Myers are so rare as to
cause a note of interrogation and a
raised eyebrow; whether the Renown
Free Kindergarten Committee will set a
precedent remains to be seen, but it must
be said that the mural hall provided a
very pleasant setting for their party.
Napier Waller’s wall paintings were all
that was needed in the way of decora-
tions, depicting in many colors the
achievements of women throughout the
ages. A prominent panel is women in
literature, with Katherine Prichard in her
Russian boots and her little equestrienne
out of Haxby’s Circus. Other panels
show women in sport, in drama, in danc-
ing and making history generally.
Cabaret tables ran round the main hall
and overflowed into the small restaurant,
and the grill-room was transformed into
cloak-rooms and a bar. Sales of balloons
added to the profits, for nobody could
slip through the fingers of the sellers.
Mrs. Darren Baillieu got the full effect
of hers by attaching them to her head-
dress. In the throng were the Arthur
Tilleys and the Tom Ramsays, Mrs.
Tilley in wood-brown velvet and Mrs.
Ramsay in black with a coat-of-mail in
sequins. Moira Morell’s wave-blue gown
had a square neck and a perky little cer-
riere bustle ; wearers of kindred shades
were Mrs. Jimmy Kinnear, whose crepe
matisse frock had meadow flowers as
primary ornamentation, and Catherine
Hiskens, whose dress glistened with dew-
drops and whose forehead was partly
hidden by a curled fringe. Betty Stewart
placed violets on her shoulders and in
her hair, but Gwen Hutchins went one
further with orchids on top of her head.
Paddy Love wore white, Mary Armit tur-
quoise draperies and Heather Moran
blue-green chiffon which drifted into a
long cape. White georgette, its scarf
draperies clasped by gold rings, was the
classic apparel chosen by Rosemary
Outhwaite.
Dances modern, old-time and of
ancient origin were performed at the
Palais during the International Ball. For
the old-times the band made adjustments
so that such a glutinous wail as “Me and
My Dog, Won’t Some Kind Gentleman
See Us Home?” inspired several hundred
people to a barn dance. Hebrew songs
were sung by the Jewish group, and Ger-
man, Russian, Swedish and Greek groups
entertained with folk dancing. All per-
formers were in costume, the gentlemen
of Greece being particularly frivolous in
their starched white cotton petticoats (as
lull as ballet skirts), long white stockings,
embroidered waistcoats and enormous
pompoms right for’ard on the points of
their shoes.
National groups took part in the pro-
cession round the room, with the State
of Victoria’s green crinoline leading the
way for Great Powers, smaller princi-
palities and several symbolical figures of
peace and goodwill. Consular represen-
tatives were special guests; • in their
midst was newest - arrival Madame
Claudon, looking charming in the
exiguous black of a backless gown en-
circled with a wide gold belt. Judge and
Mrs. Foster, who can seldom be induced
to leave their fireside for such amenities
as dancing, were present until after mid-
night. After the pageant Jessie Brookes
changed Victoria’s verdant gown and in-
convenient' hoops for a robe of wood-
rose boucle satin. Peggy Sawrey’s dark-
red velvet was hoisted to narrow
shoulder straps, Belle Craig wore black
with perky shoulder frills and Joan
Brown was in aquamarine-blue. An-
other youthful dancer in a similar shade
of blue was Elizabeth Agar, who re-
cently returned from Munich, where
polish was applied to her education.
Among more surprises in national cos-
tumes at La Meri’s second dance per-
formance were high-laced boots and a
blue coat from Bolivia; a gold satin
dress with white muslin petticoats, sleeves
and apron from Chili; a dragon-trained
srimpi robe from Java, and from Arabia
a coat of midnight-blue worn with scarlet
trousers and anklets a-jingle with bells.
As a Redskin, La Meri wore painted
skins, feathers and moccasins; for the
tableaux vivants of the Madonna she
chose a robe in two shades of cyclamen
and a veil of wraith-blue ninon over a
satin foundation. La Meri’s assistant and
understudy Laura Mollica speaks very
little English, and her ear is so unaccus-
tomed to the Anglicised version of
accented syllables and the Spanish “11”
that she does not recognise her name as
pronounced by her Australian audiences.
The Tom Mitchells accomplished a
feat of endurance by climbing Mt. Kos-
ciusko and performing the last part of
the journey on skis. Their property is
at Towong Hill in the north-east of Vic-
toria. From their homestead they
travelled the first part of the way on
horseback, camping the night at a
shelter shed. The next day they made
an early start, and reached the Kosciusko
Hotel about four in the afternoon. The
going was very steep and hard, and the
snow in places was treacherous. Tom
Mitchell is a ski-ing champion, and has
been appointed captain of the Australian
team which will compete in inter-
Dominion ski-ing events at the Chateau
Tongariro (M.L.) at the end of August.
Mrs. Mitchell, who was Elyne Chauvel,
is an experienced horsewoman, but until
this season has had little practice at snow
sports.
Melbourne wishes the best of luck to
Alec Pratt, who is making the break
from a good sure job in the cause of
adventure. He leaves in the Changte for
Japan and probably Manchukuo, and if
work is to be obtained thereabouts he
should be the person to get it. Alec is
an intelligent and a very sane journalist
(his newspaper has accepted his resig-
nation with regret), and his voice goes
well over the air, but, what is just as
important, he has personality and char-
acter, and can adapt himself to ,the
exigencies of the moment. Alec wants
his adventures while he still has the con-
fidence of youth and the urge to move
about and see things.
It has taken shouts, prods and p,ens
dipped in vitriol to penetrate the State
Government’s apathy in respect to a new
chemistry school for our seat of learn-
ing- At last “Mr. Dunstan is sympa-
thetic,’’ and a special grant will be made,
though whether the whole or even part
ol the original annual grant will be re-
stored is still debatable. If the chem. lab.
had been blown to bits long ago no one
who has ever worked in it would have
been surprised. Conditions are so
cramped that students work with a thin
margin of safety. Concentration is im-
possible when a budding scientist has
half his mind on a cylinder of inflammable
gas perilously close to his neighbor’s
elbow and his own Bunsen flame. In
addition the chem. school is badly lighted
and inadequately ventilated. Fifty years
ago ex-Premier Stanley Argyle, studying
medicine, worked among 80 students in
the lab., which to-day presents exactly the
same appearance and is still part of a
school which accommodates 460.
On luly 4 “Lady Precious Stream”
commences a three nights’ season at the
Garrick. Wearing the weighty Chinese
headdress in the lack Cato portrait is
Margaret Reid, who has been entrusted
with the name-part in the Brett Ran-
dall production. This play was trans-
lated into English by a Chinese, S. I.
Hsiung, who is not only experienced in
stagecraft but a master of the English
language. Queen Mary, who seldom
visits the theatre, chose to see the piece
during the early part of its London
season—after 18 months it is still run-
ning. In this original production Aus-
tralian actress Carol Coombe graduated
from the films to a leading role on the
London stage.
A yarn told by artist Dora Wilson,
who motored over from Sydney to
Melbourne with friend Peg Clarke.
Dora had been busy painting street
scenes in Sydney, and a day or so
before her departure she had evidence
of the good heart, if rather poor judg-
ment, of Pyrmont. Anxious to get a
sketch of Pyrmont Bridge at a certain
angle, the artist set up her easel under
a corner verandah. She was so deep in
her work that she did not notice that her
pitch was just in front of the door of
a hotel. Presently she was awakened
from her reverie in color by a sharp
clank at her feet, and looking down
found it was a penny that had made the
clatter. It was one of several at the foot
of her easel.
Australian theatregoers remember the
good work of Dick Parry, first as an
amateur and later with professional cos.
Last year he decided to try his luck in
London, and sensibly enough linked up
with a repertory society. He has just
been playing with the Birmingham reper-
torians in “Anthony and Anna.” Now
he has been engaged by Sir Barry Jack-
son for the Malvern Festival to act in
Shaw s Saint Joan” and the Chinese
play “Lady Precious Stream.”
A Melbourne will contained one be-
quest which must be unique of its kind.
After leaving legacies to relatives, friends
and charities the testator provided that
the residue of his estate should be utilised
lor purchasing the sole fishing rights in
portion of the Scottish river Findhorn
for the benefit of the townsfolk of Forres,
in which town he was born. In a coun-
try where fishing-streams are usually
close preserves the bequest should cer-
tainly ensure that the testator’s name
will long be remembered in his birth-
place, especially by Isaak Walton’s
disciples.
Is Alfred Tennyson falling out of
favor? It would seem so, or he wouldn't
be so often misquoted. A writer in the
Melbourne “Age,” chiding a Victorian
Judge who insisted that woman’s proper
place was in the home and not in the
jury box, remarks:
I for one, your Honor, shall think of
you henceforth as adopting the attitude of
Tennyson’s “Northern Farmer”—
Woman was made for man
And for the good and increase of the world.
Neither of Tennyson’s “Northern
Farmers”—there are two of them, old-
style and new-style—said anything of the
sort. For one thing, the poet was much
too good a craftsman to make such char-
acters express themselves in iambic pen-
tameters and correct English. The
strictly utilitarian and essentially un-
romantic sentiment about woman was
put into the mouth of “Edward Bull, the
fat-faced curate,” in quite a different
poem. And even at that the first line is
garbled.
Two theatricals have been Victorian
members. Julius (“Jules”) Grant, partner
of Bert Bailey in the staging of “On Our
Selection” and other Australian plays,
has failed to be a third, but he received
a good vote for the Melbourne Leg.
Council seat against Lord Mayor Wales
in the by-election caused by the death of
H. H. Smith. George Coppin, head of
the profession in Australia before J. C.
Williamson established himself, had terms
in both the Council and the Assembly.
Mark Last King, whose stage-name was
Morton King, became an Assembly mem-
ber. In the theatre, King played parts
of the Shylock and Hamlet orders, but in
the House he chose to be the funny man.
On the other hand, Coppin, a born stage
comedian, was a serious and dignified
legislator.
“King Charles’s Ghost”: We did in
your reputable journal see recorded how
two scurvy knaves were convicted under
our statute of 1677 for Sabbath break-
ing. And rightlie so! Further we did
note that another suffered punishment in
tha State of Queensland. Again rightlie
so! But your contemporarie journal, the
“Argus,” suggests that when we enacted
the statute we were ignorant of the very
existence of your country. Verily, the
suggestion smacks of high treason
beyond forgiveness, which only the sup-
pression of the scurrilous news-sheet and
the committal of its rascally editor to
the stocks can requite. And he shall for-
feit an ear! Zounds! Of course we
knew it existed. During our sojourn in
France (what time the wart-nosed Oliver
tyrannised our domains) we met and
conversed with Hollander seamen who
had visited your coast (and precious little
they thought of it, too); and after our
Restoration our Royal Society on divers
occasions discussed their voyages. Igno-
rant, forsooth! What would pretty
Nellie say? “No stocks, but the pillory
for that scurvy hack journalist! And
he shall lose both his ears.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL RICHARD AUGUSTINE WALSH
(nephew of Charles Barry, deceased), last hcaiu
of in Sydney in 1923, or anyone knowing his
present whereabouts, please communicate with
the Permanent Trustee Company of New South
Wales, Limited, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
JOSEPHS—Anyone knowing the whereabouts
of HENRY MICHAEL JOSEPHS (or Joseph),
son of Ethel Josephs, late of East Melbourne,
please communicate with THE UNION
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED, 333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HANNIGAN.—Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of MARGARET TERESA, ANNIE,
or MABEL KATE HANNIGAN (or Hanigan),
last heard of in Melbourne, but late of Ballarat,
please communicate with THE UNION
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED, 333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
TO GEORGE FREDERICK HOMAN
BARNES, formerly of Sydney, in the State
of New South Wales, but now of parts un-
known. .. _ 4 . .
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, Ethel
Lesslie Barnes, has commenced divorce pro-
ceedings against you on the ground of dcsci-
tion during three years and upwards. Unless
you •enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria, at Melbourne, on or before the twenty-
third day of July, 1936, and file an Answer m
the said Office within ten days thereafter, the
suit may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs.
P. J. RIDGEWAY,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
NOTICE.
In the Estate of JOHN ADAM ANDREW,
formerly of Rabaul, in the Territory o! New
Guinea, Schooner-master and Public Servant.
It having been made to appear to the
Supreme Court, Rabaul, that there is reason-
able ground to suppose that the abovenamed
died at sea between Madang and Witu in the
said Territory on or after 10th Novembei,
1935, and the Curator of Intestate Estates hav-
ing been authorised by an order of the said
Court dated sth June, 1936, subject to the
limitations contained therein, to administer his
estate, ALL PERSONS having claims against
the said estate as creditors, next of kin, or
otherwise should submit same, verified by
affidavit, to the said Curator at his office at
Rabaul on or before 31st August, 1936.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that after
that date the said Curator will apply to the
Court for an order authorising him to distri-
bute the said estate, having regard only to the
claims of which he then shall have had notice
in writing. , .
Any person having knowledge or possession
of a will or of any of the assets of the said
JOHN ADAM ANDREW should report same
to the said Curator without delay.
RABAUL, the fifth day of June, 1936.
J. L. STREET,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
mm
%
1
m
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
tarries more classified
advertisements than any
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Premier Phil Collier stepped down the
aisle of Saered Heart Church, Highgate,
to give daughter Maisie into the safe
keeping of Harold Ferguson Thompson.
Diamente-studded coils were attached to
the bodice of the bride’s curd-white
satins, which drifted, sunray pleated, into
a long train edged with silver leaves and
sprinkled with tiny sprays of silver
flowers. A froth of lace-edged tulle cas-
caded from her head down the length
of the train and swirled about her
bouquet of arum-lilies. Flowers bloomed
on the necklines of the swishing white
taffetas worn by Mary Buggy, Pat
Thompson, Vera McEnroe and Mavis
Gibson, whose gold tissue hat crowns
were severally brimmed with pink, blue,
green and lemon to match their tinted
lilies. Aftermath at the Karrakatta Club,
with Mrs. Collier’s black velvet coat
semi-concealing graceful kingfisher-blue
georgettes.
George Gwynne and Sheila Hayes have
announced their engagement. There is
an equine flavor about the romance, for
it grew alongside horses. Both are keen
riders to hounds, and both are racehorse
owners. Their gee-gees are stable-mates.
Propellers and joysticks were at rest
when Aero Club members and their
friends made a landing at the Embassy
for their annual ball. A miniature ’plane
zoomed overhead ’neath a cloud of
balloons and the Aerial Kingstons gave a
performance on a hastily erected trapeze.
Sec. R. H. A. Grabham arranged the
doings with assistance from his black-
chiffon-velvet-clad lady (she who wields
an artist’s brush under her maiden name
of Hall). President Val Abbott’s other
half swung a feather cape over her
banded gold nets; burnished copper
gleamed in the taffeta of Mrs. Bob Giles’s
picture frock. Mrs. Walter Saw lopped
black-and-gold cellophane with a lumi-
nous gold lame corsage and gold foun-
dations shimmered through Mrs. Norman
Brearley’s casement-window black ninons.
At the Newman Ball 12 debs, were
presented to Archbishop Prendiville. Pre-
ceded by little Ann Meagher, in green-
and-lilac Kate Greenaway frock, and
Gerald Barnard, a green-suited page, the
dozen fledglings fluttered their snowy
wings through Anzac House ballroom,
bowed over their autumn-tinted posies
and joined their partners for a set of
lancers. Mrs. E. le B. Henderson, wife
of the society’s president, did the honors
with a bouquet of roses held against
black lace and georgette.
Clifford Odet’s propagandist play “Till
the Day I Die” was the Workers’ Art
Club’s first public presentation. Its two-
night run at the Assembly Hall could not
accommodate the hordes who rallied
along, and repeat performances were an-
nounced. Producer Keith George made
use of black-outs, spotlights, off-stage
syrens and a continuously open stage, and
introduced a realistic touch in the Com-
munist-meeting scene, when his players
mingled with the audience. The large
cast was headed by Frank O’Grady, who
gave a moving portrayal of the tortured
Ernst Tausig.
The R.S.L. band formed a guard of
honor outside St. Alban’s after Charles
Court’s marriage to Rita Steffanoni.
Pearls and sequins belted the bride’s gar-
denia satins, which were shirred as to
bodice, flanked with tight-fitting sleeves
and tapered off into a long train. Mary
Langley and Lenore Jones followed with
wide-jewelled belts clasping their azalea-
pink georgettes, which fell over taffeta
and were worn with silver sandals and
haloes of pink flowers.
To help Fremantle Free Kindergarten
Mrs. W. P. White and Mrs. T. O.
Nicholls arranged a musicale, which was
held at the former’s home. Mrs. W.
Muir lifted her voice in song, Mrs. Ralph
Crisp (Nora Coalstadt) piano
solos and John Drummond played the
violin. Mrs. J. Balfour arranged the com-
missariat.
Feminine golfers trekked en masse to
Royal Fremantle links lor the
W.A.L.G.U. Cup meeting. Mrs. R.
Parsons, trimly accoutred with striped tie,
suede leather belt and stitched felt hat,
carried off the trophy. The Eton-cropped,
boyish-figured Mrs. Oscar Negus, card-
ing a 78 off the stick, collected the best
gross score prize. President Mrs. Nor-
man Temperley handed over the trophies
after a delectable spread in the club-
house.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Legacy Club’s centennial pageant
bridge party took place in the Centennial
Hall at Wayville. It was on one of our
coldest nights, and the new hall is one
of our coldest public places. Finan-
cially the affair was a great success, 500
tables being booked. Unley City Orches-
tra provided music, every woman present
was presented with a powder-sachet, and
there were 20 prizes.
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Dawe, of Glen
Osmond, gave a large dance at the
Mount Ormond Country Club for the
debut of daughter Peggy. Decorations
in the ballroom were in autumn tones,
and supper was served in a marquee
decked with Lorraine Lee roses and
mauve irises. The hostess was gowned
in black romaine with diagonal silver
stripe. A long scarf effect caught at.
the waist, lined with silver lame, foimed
a train at the back. Her daughter’s frock
was of white accordion-pleated chiffon.
Flat white roses outlined the waist and
formed shoulder straps.
The Corinthian Club seems to have
supplied a long-felt want in Adelaide.
Membership now numbers over a thou-
sand. Organiser John Dempster beamed
upon all and sundry at the club s ninth
gathering. Mrs. Dempster was gowned
in black chenille embossed chiffon, and
their daughter Christabel, who is to make
her debut at the St. Peter’s College Mis-
sion dance shortly, was in a pastel
flowered chiffon frock. The vocalists
were Gwen Collett, Charles Buttrose and
Sidney Burchall, and bright music was
made by the Apollo and Unley City
orchestras.
An overflowing crowd rolled up for
bridge and dancing at the Moulden lady s
house, Lordello, North Adelaide, to raise
funds for “Princess Delphinium” (Owen
Moulden’s daughter Josephine), who is
representing the Clayton Free Kindei-
garten in our latest competition. The
hostess, now resident in Melbourne (there
she has been married to Basil Murphy),
had taken 12 truckfuls of house-
hold gods with her, but there was
enough furniture left, even then lor the
party. Dancing was in the ballroom and
the drawing-room, which merge into one,
and two large rooms were set aside for
bridge players. Supper was supplied
from a huge wheeled stall in the garden
or served in the house as desired.
Mrs. R. K. Wood, in magnolia silk
and angel-skin lace, and Mrs. Howard
Burgess, wearing plum-colored lace and
qeorgette, supervised the dancing sec-
tion: others of the committee assisted
with the bridge. Over 200 were present.
The Bonython lady (president of the
F.K.U.) wore a cherry chiffon velvet
coat over her black frock. Mrs. Owen
Moulden was gowned in black georgette
with a long cape of black silk net. Mrs.
Walter Kidman, who brought a large
party, looked charming in pale green
and silver striped romaine. Mrs. Albyn
Rankine was a smart figure in wine-
tone dull crepe.
Mrs. Max Fotheringham organised a
large bridge party in aid of the Children’s
Hospital, and the Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
H. Dunstan) gave the use of her cosy
reception-room at the Town Hall, decked
it with poinsettias and supplied afternoon
tea. The party netted close on £3O.
TASMANIA.
The Apex Club’s Ball at the Con-
tinental was a crowded affair, and very
well run. Decorations were extensive —
streamers in the club’s colors, mauve and
brown, banks of palms, a palm grove
for the orchestra to play in and masses
of color on the supper tables. The official
party included the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, the Jones lady, the club’s
president, J. W. C. Wyett, Mr. and Mrs.
L. Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. P. Waterworth,
Mr. and Mrs. A. Foot and Mrs. D.
McLaren.
The Governor presided, at the Royal
Society's gathering when Prof. F. Lloyd,
of McGill University, lectured on car-
nivorous plants. Lady Clark was present,
and a big number of members and guests.
According to Prof. Lloyd, Australia has
more bloodthirsty vegetables than any
other country.
Marweet Courthope was hostess at a
sherry party at Mrs. A. Walch’s flat, lent
for the occasion. About 90 guests turned
up. Mrs. Geoff Edgell (formerly Gwen
Courthope) helped her sister do the
honors. Miss Courthope’s frock of navy
blue had a white georgette kilted frill at
the neck. Mrs. Edgell was in black, with
a small toque.
Dr. Counsell was host at a jolly little
dance given at the Shuggs’ roomy house
in Davey-street in honor of the young
R. D. Millen couple, lately married and
settled in Hobart. Mrs. Millen is a niece
of Mrs. Shugg.
The Uni. Dramatic Club put on Merton
Hodge’s “The Wind and the Rain” at
the Royal, and made a signal success of
it The realism of the characters appealed
to both players and audience. Mrs. R.
G. Brett was producer, and the principals
in the show were June Goddard, Megan
Griffiths, Gwenda Meggs, George Hodg-
son, Felix St. Hill, John Bushby, Maurice
Ingram, John May and Reg Cane.
Heavy falls of snow on the highlands
have been welcomed by the ski-ers, who
till then had had little chance of exercise
this winter. The new road on Mt. Wel-
lington was chockablock with cars at the
week-end, many of them in the ditches
at the roadside,, owing to skids on the
snowy road surface.
Katherine Pitt, All Saints’ Rectory,
South Hobart, and Michael Eisdell, Lon-
don, announce their engagement. The
prospective ’groom is the son of singer
Hubert Eisdell, who married a Hobart
girl, Kitty Parker, in days gone by.
In the Causes Court at Sydney on
June 23 the hearing was begun of an
action in which the Bulletin Newspaper
Co. is one of the defendants. P. R. Stephen-
sen claims £5OOO damages from The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Brian Pen ton
and G. F. L. Bombelli, alleging that they
unlawfully conspired together and with
each other to publish certain false libels
in order to insult and injure plaintiff
personally, and prejudice plaintiff in his
business as book publisher, and that, as
a result, his company was forced into
liquidation and he has lost his position as
managing director and lost the value ol
his shares. On June 25, after a day’s
adjournment, Justice Davidson an-
nounced that certain matters entirely
unconnected with the conduct of the
case had led counsel for all parties to
ask that the case should stand over until
a later date; he thereupon discharged
the jury and directed that the case be set
down for rehearing at the next sittings.
On the same day Justice Maxwell, in
private chambers, granted an application,
made on an affidavit by plaintiff, for an
order nisi calling upon Consolidated
Press, Ltd., and George Warnecke, jour-
nalist, to show cause why they should
not be dealt with for contempt of Court.
Mr. Piddington, K.C., and Mr. Farrer
(instructed by Messrs. Fawl and Hudson
Smith) appear for the plaintiff; Mr.
Curtis, K.C., and Mr. M. F. Bruxner (in-
structed by Messrs. Dibbs, Crowther and
Osborne) for the Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., and Bombelli, and Mr. H. E.
Reimer (instructed by Messrs. Shipway
and Berne) for Penton.
* * * *
“Gilah”: I don’t know whether £lOOO
notes are no longer in circulation (B.
3/6/’36), but they certainly were a few
years ago, when a shareholder paid a
call for £2OOO with two such notes to
the company which employed me. I
remember it the more vividly because
I had to walk through the city to pay
them into our banking account, and I
didn’t much care for the job.
“Lond”: They say the Paris ideal of
complete nudity on the stage is steadily
being approached in London. At the
Casino cabaret', the peak girl in a spec-
tacular “Living Jewel” item has nothing
above the waist; and if she has anything
below it is hardly perceptible.
* * , * *
“Sniff”: How much chloroform can
the average human inhale without losing
consciousness? Was present at Mus-
wellbrook (N.S.W.) Hospital when a
miner who had been entombed was
brought in. After his wounds had been
cleansed, the mask was applied, and, in
accordance with the medico’s usual cus-
tom, the patient was told to count. He
reached 102, then ripped the mask off,
declaring that he would go through with-
out the dose. Personally, when I was
undergoing a similar experience I re-
membered nothing after 14.
ifc -i-
-“Spadassin”: Let it go to the credit of
the Nazi Government that it has per-
mitted the revival of general duelling.
With all its faults the duello imposes self-
control on loose-tongued and abusive
folk, and even Parliamentarians are not
exempt. The new law enjoins that
officers must use pistols only, while
civilians may choose between the pistol
or the white arm. 1 should like to advise
any of my acquaintances who may in
the future be embroiled in a duel in
Germany to declare for the pistol. The
biggest mug with firearms has always a
chance of fluking a bull’s-eye, while with
the practised Continental swordsman he
would stand little or no show. Still, I
can recall a case where an utter mug,
holding a duelling epee for the first time
against one of the best swordsmen in
Europe, slashed his opponent across the
face with it, and then ran him through
before the amazed expert had fairly
engaged.


ADD TO
YOUR CAR'S SPEED
..by replacing worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
1
QSa
WINDSOR,
CANADA
MPION
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
m
S 5
sc
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
s. YEARS J
SADDLER-MADE
a 7Z.
cßugs
“STAYS-ON”
FITTINGS.
No. A—All Flax Canvas,
Fleecy Check Lined.
5 ft. 6 in., 42/-; sft. 9in.,
43/6; 6ft., 44/6.
Post, 2/9 per Rug.
WRITE FOR 1936 HORSE RUG LIST.
EDGED
■iTfliM
AND CASES
Strong, Soldered Tin Pots and Sewn
Leather Cases. Round or Oval—Pot,
3/-; Case, 6/9. Flat Back—Pot, 3/-;
Case, 7/6. Post, 1/- N.S.W.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Cata-
logue, No. 361, of Saddles, Whips,
Bridles, Riding Boots, Leggings, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,
LIMITED,
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
r “Nagheer”: Two Melbourne-dwelling
youngsters, being scratch-mark pushbike
riders, decided to make a there-and-back
trip to the town in which they were born.
It does not sound much of an undertak-
ing until one realises that their birthplace
was Home Hill (N.Q.). Already well on
the northward way, they will have had
about 4000 miles of road-pumping when
they return. The odds are well in their
favor if staff-work counts for anything.
They made a study of seasonal weather
conditions over the route, and reckon
on fair winds for the better part of both
ways. Name, Kidby. Ages, sixteen and
fourteen.
* . * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The Mayor of Bun-
daberg (Q.) is proposing to the Common-
wealth that a pension should be paid to
the 30 or so Kanaka relics of the labor
trade who still survive about the city.
He regards them as the real pioneers of
the sugar industry. Speakers in support
said that they did all the work on a
weekly wage of 2s. 6d., and that if they
hadn’t done it there would have been no
sugar industry to-day. Also, that if they
were repatriated now they would be
massacred immediately they landed on
their native isles. His Worship should
look up the records of the Kanaka depor-
tation period, and he will see that a fun-
damental principle of the transaction was
that those who were allowed to remain in
Australia should not become financial
burdens. I admit slight prejudice on
account of a still-troublesome wound
from a hoop-iron knife, gained in the
business of persuading Kanakas to come
to Queensland in the long ago.
“Sakit Prut”: Tests of a new pattern
of diving dress at Darwin (N.T.) have
yielded some interesting comparisons be-
tween tropical and southern waters.
Owing to the heavy influx of fresh in
the rainy season the water forms layers
of varying density, of which the heaviest
is said to lie at about 18 fathoms. At
that depth, most cases of diver’s paralysis
occur. In Sydney Harbor, only 321 b. of
lead was required to take the operator
to the bottom in 19 fathoms ; at Darwin
481 b. was needed on account of the
greater density. The great advantage of
the new dress is that the delay from
“staging,” when ascending in an ordinary
dress, is avoided, without risk of paraly-
sis, and the stay underwater can be
greatly prolonged. Fifty-nine fathoms
has been reached in Sydney with it by
a white diver, Ted Lock.
'l’ V
“Nagheer”: Despite the hotly-con-
tested claims of several ladies to have
been the first white child born in the
Northern Territory, it is highly unlikely
that any of them is the genuine article.
Mrs. Dominick Daly, one of the early
writers on N.T. matters, was a daughter
of Captain Douglas, the first Govern-
ment Resident under S. Aus. administra-
tion, and she has related that one of her
sisters was born at Darwin. Captain
Douglas had previously been in charge
of the military guard. He retired from
the residentship in May, 1873, so that any
claimant would require to be over 60 as
an initial qualification. But long before
that white children were born at the Port
Essington settlement (Fort Dundas) —
more than 100 years ago, in fact. Dr.
Wilson, a visitor in 1829, refers to the
healthy appearance of the infants of the
soldiers’ wives, and colored dames were
not admitted on the “strength” in those
days.
* * * * *
“Bufo”: A useful investigation,
sponsored by the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, will be com-
pleted when observations upon the
marine borer “worms” of N.Q. waters are
to hand, in respect of certain Australian
timbers. So far, turpentine and satinay
have proved the most generally resistant
to attack. The remaining uncertain factor
is the giant tropical shipworm, prevalent
in parts of our northern seas and estu-
aries, which bores holes more than an
inch in diameter for 10ft. and over in
solid ironbark piles. The “worms” are
really bivalve molluscs, distant relatives
of oysters, which do the job with the
cutting edges of modified shells on the
Just one lil' rum, boss, to celebrate big-pfeller knight Parkhill."
head, aided by an acid secretion which
softens the wood. Incidentally, some
species are extremely good to eat, posses-
sing a flavor better than that of any
oyster—as Brother Binghi well knows.
3= * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Bowen (N.Q.), lately the
scene of a five-sided by-election, was once,
for a brief period, represented by a very
famous British statesman. In 1869 the
Kennedy electorate reached from Mac-
kay to Cardwell, with Bowen as its chief
town. Bobby Towns’s row over the
smell of the boiling-down works had not
then developed. T. H. Fitzgerald, then
member, resigned, and none of the three
resultant candidates seemed to please any
of the cliques. Mr. John Bright, M.P.,
of Rochdale, England, was finally pro-
posed as an additional candidate in the
then prominent separationist interest.
Carried on a show of hands, the nomina-
tion went to the poll, and he was elected
by a majority of one in a total poll of
172. John Bright subsequently declined
the honor, but he was elected all the
same.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Cilento lady took Dame Mary
Hughes for a motor run to Southport, and
after lunch they went on as far as Cool-
angatta and admired the view from the
Razorback. Both hostess and guest are
keen on the work of the Mothercraft
Association.
Major Bill Buttner was remembered on
King Edward’s Birthday. Bill, who has a
permanent limp as a result of the 1914-18
quarrel, is a pillar of strength to the
Legacy Club, and he and his wife
frequently entertain the kiddies. Mrs.
Buttner, who is one of the soundest
judges of antique furniture in Queens-
land, is president of the combined com-
mittee working for the display of an-
tiques booked for August to help the
Bush Book Club and the S.P.C.A.
Sybil, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H.
A. C. Douglas, and Joan, daughter of
the Tom Hoopers, will make their debut
at a dance at T. C. Beirne’s lovely old
home. He is the proud grandfather of
both lasses.
The Stan Kents, who have been trans-
ferred to Sydney—the male partner is
one of the Dunlop-Perdriau chieftains—
have had a lot of farewell parties. Mrs.
Kent had to attend most of them alone
in the intervals of packing, Stan and
daughter already having left for Sydney.
The Dunlop-Perdriau staff and executive
officers staged one send-off, Mr. and
Mrs. Ernie Ruddle gave another, and the
Aero Club and Qantas people yet an-
other. Lady Mayoress Jones and Mrs.
E. M. Ralph headed a bevy of women-
folk who uttered farewells.
Betty Bassett, of Roma, and John
Scott were married on June 29. Mrs. W.
Poole (Joan Ferrier that was) was matron
of honor, and Betty Fletcher, of Bonus
Downs, ’maided.
There has been a positive welter of
parties for Patricia Crawford, who is
to marry Leslie Grant Fraser. The bride-
to-be is the daughter of the David Craw-
fords, of Northgate, and is a grand-
daughter of the late P. R. Gordon, once
regarded as this State’s leading authority
on stock and pastoral problems.
The non-coms, of the A.A.S.C. gave
their annual dance in the Blind Hall, and
over 100 dancers took the floor. Bal-
loons were lavishly used, and jazz caps
lent color. Eric Johnson, president of
the non-coms.’ mess, received the offi-
cial party—Colonel W. R. Rankin, 0.C.,
A.A.S.C., Queensland, and Mrs. Rankin ;
Major D. R. and Mrs. Glasgow, Lieut.
Harold Hansen and his wife, and a trio
of loots, D. McPhee, J. Ellery and E.
Grimwade.
Hilda Knight, known as “Billo” —
which was her father’s nickname in the
days when he played a rattling game of
Rugby Union for this State —is engaged
to J. G. Hyland, eldest son of the J. S.
Hylands, of Toowong.
Sheila McClemans, who practises as
a barrister in W.A., is holidaying here
as the guest of Mrs. R. H. Trotter. The
lady is a B.A. and LL.B. of Perth Uni.
Nancy Barrett, daughter of the late
G. M. and of Mrs. Barrett, Wooloovvin,
wore magnolia chiffon mounted on satin
for her altar date with Harry Helman,
son of Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Helman,
Minto, Sydney. A posy of yellow roses
and a little Dutch bonnet from which
the veil fell completed the picture. Joyce
Ladewig, in ice-blue chiffon, ’maided,
and Jack Barrett was best man. The
honeymoon is being spent motoring
round the Northern Rivers.
St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church
gleamed with the gold of wattle and Ice-
land poppies for the wedding of Henry
Roy Hancock, son of Mr. and Mrs. J.
Henry Hancock, and Irene Gordon
Shaw, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John
S. Shaw, Upper Paddington. With her
bridal robe of satin the bride wore a
pearl necklet that her mother had worn
for her own wedding. A Limerick lace
veil with a coronet of orange-blossoms
and a bouquet of lilies-of-the-valley,
hyacinths and white camellias provided
the finishing touches.
Frail-looking little Eileen Joyce held
her audiences spellbound during the two
recitals at the City Hall. Eileen liked the
teddy bears at Lone Pine, and was a
visitor to Wynberg, Archbishop Duhig’s
residence, where a party was held in her
honor.
Archbishop and Mrs. Wand have
heard from daughter Kathleen, now in
England, that she and fiance Michael
Addison have chosen August 22 as their
wedding day. They are to be married at
St. Leonard’s Church, Watlington, near
Oxford —the church in which her parents
were married.
Verity Jones and Dorothy Keenan gave
a farewell party to Deryk Kingwell, who
is off to train with the R.A.A.F. The
party was at the Belle Vue, and the Air
Force colors were used in the decorations.
Lena Hammond gave a morning-tea at
Rowe’s for Nan Shaw, who, before these
lines see print, will be Mrs. Norval Smith.
Mrs. W. H. Debnam gave a party at
which Nan and Kathleen Radford, who
is to be a July bride, were guests of
honor.
Frances Mary Hill, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Edward Hill, Rosevale,
Wyandra, wore a classic gown of pearl
satin, with the faintest hint of pink in its
shimmering folds, a veil (lent by her sister
Mrs. Denis Duigan) and a coronet of
orange-blossoms when she married Alex.
Duckett White, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Duckett White, of Greenslopes. St.
John’s Cathedral echoed to the Voice.
Una White and Pauline Kennedy, in sun-
ray-pleated frocks of lilac georgette,
pleated scarves, and cerise roses in their
hair to match their bouquets, ’maided.
Twitterings of thankfulness greeted the
sight of a cheery fire blazing in the
eastern lounge of Lennon’s Hotel when
the A.B.C. gave a cocktail party to wel-
come Dorothy Helmrich to Brisbane.
Violets, gladioli and gerberas were in the
bouquet presented to Dorothy (did a man
suggest this?), and all the womenfolk un-
obtrusively eyed her smart navy-wool
ensemble, buttoned down the front with
navy and white buttons, a long cape
fringed with navy, and a navy toque with
a navy flower. J. W. Kitto, one of the
A.B.C. Commissioners, and Mrs. Kitto
were there, and so were E. J. Lewis,
manager of 4QG, and Mrs. Lewis. Eileen
Joyce, in black trimmed with Persian
lamb, was another guest.


THE ULTIMA i E
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Rola Reproducers, _
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mallard Radio Valves.
m
Vs
- c
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
»UKttDIOKfS
KITSET X?/ /
1936 a.v.c.
PENTAG HID IGIK
£6/5/-.
FREAKS
RADIO NEWS
THE AMATEUR EXHIBITION—AND THE FUTURE.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
For months, the question of a wholly
amateur radio exhibition for Sydney had
been discussed by officers of the N.S.W.
Division of W.1.A., and for weeks a
great deal of hard work went into organi-
sation and the development of ideas. Syd-
ney’s first 100 p.c. amateur exhibition has
passed, and leaves pleasant memories
which amply reward those responsible,
and give confidence for the future. All
shadow of doubt as to whether the public
and a great proportion of the radio trade
are interested in such exhibitions has
been removed, for the response from
both sections was literally overwhelming.
One thing is certain, and that is that in
1937 and succeeding years more space
will be necessary. It would have been
impossible to find an extra foot of space
in this exhibition, and at the last moment
One special Ideal Amateur Superhet shown by Don B. Knock
on The Bulletin stand was a centre of interest. This
receiver had self-contained aerial tuning unit and 6L7 first
detector. A well-designed frequency meter-monitor was also
displayed by Mr. A. F. Sutton.
many would-be exhibitors found that all
available space was booked. Next year
those who lagged in making a decision
as to whether an amateur exhibition,
properly conducted, is a worth-while place
in which to show goods to amateurs,
short-wave listeners and the public will
know better' and will secure their places
early.
A prevalent idea among some sections
of the Australian radio trade has been
that the amateur, from an experimental
transmitter point of view, is represented
bv such a small section of the community
that he cuts no ice. They have over-
looked the other kind of amateur—the
short-wave listener. The two are closely
allied, and observation showed that the
great majority of the public surging into
this 1936 exhibition were of the s.w.i.
variety. They came to get new ideas,
to converse with experienced experi-
menters, and they saw a host of new and
interesting things concerned with short-
wave radio displayed for their inspection
by wise-headed and progressive traders.
Many new short-wave gadgets were to
be seen on trade stands, and traders
aren’t going to keep stocks on their
shelves long after this exhibition.
The organising committee believes in
running an exhibition where visitors can
see as much apparatus actually working
as possible, and in this instance there
was plenty to hold the attention. Next
year there will be more still. The prin-
cipal highlight this year was the stout
effort by president Gordon Wells, of
Waverley (N.S.W.) Club, assisted by
Maurice Lusby. Admittedly crude, and
entirely home-made, their demonstration
of low-definition television showed the in-
finite patience to which keen experi-
menters will go. Owing to the D.C.
supply and the fluctuations of the rotary
converter giving
the necessary A.C.,
the image of a girl’s
head or Mickey
Mouse, from a
slide in the trans-
mitter scanner,
wobbled at times.
Vibration on the
wooden platform
also contributed to
this, but the image
was there and
could be seen. It
was definitely the
first public demon-
stration of tele-
vision in N.S.W. It
stands to reason
that these men will
not leave it at that.
Next year some-
thing better can be
expected. That is
the way of the true
amateur.
In the working
exhibits the public
heard and took
part in ultra-short-
wave communica-
tion between the
exhibition and a
distant point in the city. This was
organised by John Moyle, VK2JU, and
Harry Chinner, VK2CG, and was
eminently successful. Next year it is in-
tended to conduct conversations with a
‘plane flying over the city. Despite the
bugbear of
electrical inter-
ference the
short-wave sta-
tion of Wal
Ryan, VK2TJ.
was eventually
put into ac-
tion in the
hall a n d
worked with
U.S.A. ama-
teurs on 20-
metre 'phone.
When it is
considered that
next door was
a power sub-
station, this
was no small
achievement. A
twisted pair
doublet aerial
turned the
trick in reduc-
ing the noise
level. Laurels
go to the radio
inspectors of
the P.M.G.’s
Department
for the excel-
lent demon-
stration of the
effect of radio-
inductive interference with broadcasting
by the cathode-ray oscillograph. Electri-
cal haircutters. with and without suppres-
sion filters, were switched on, whilst the
cathode-ray tube showed the mess caused
by the one without and the negligible
effect of the one with suppression.
A.W.A. Valve Co. also had a fine
working display
in which the
speech envelope
on a carrier-
wave was shown
by .picking up a
hand micro-
phone and
speaking. The
public was in-
trigued with the
design of indi-
vidual voice pat-
terns. On the
stand arranged
by the military
Signals units the
public had an
opportunity to
see the kind of
signalling equip-
ment used in
training, an d
great interest
was shown here.
The exhibition
committee is in-
debted to mili-
tary H.Q. for
perm ission to
include this ex-
hibit.
During the week, lectures were given
and these were well attended, speech-
amplifying equipment being supplied by
H. Lilly, of Wollstonecraft, N.S.W.
Taken all round, not only members of
the wide-awake N.S.W. Division of the
W.1.A., but all amateurs and trade exhi-
bitors, have good reason to be well satis-
fied with this successful inauguration of a
series of modern exhibitions wherein the
unusual and fascinating are laid bare to
the public eye. It has proved the conten-
tion that there are more people interested
in shows of this kind than the com-
munity has been given to understand.
The future exhibitions, as is the amateur
way, will be progressive, and, above all,
ihev will be of, by and for the amateur.
D. B. K.
Amateur Exhibition.
PRIZE LIST.
Section I.—“ Wireless Weekly” Cup. for the
best stall exhibit of club affiliated with insti-
tute: Zero Beat, Ist; Lakemba, h.c. Best
piece of apparatus on club stands: VK.2TI.
W. G. Ryan, transmitter. Waverley R.C.. Ist:
The military stand. Equipment shown here included the No. I
set for telegraphy and telephony between 45 and 70 metres
battery operated; the type C transmitter and receive), type A
transmitter and receiver, heliograph, night-signalling lamp and
well-known D III telephone.
VK2QK, C. Preston-Smith, receiver, Manly
R.C., 2nd; VK2FV, J. Fairvveather, amplifier,
Northern Suburban R.C., 3rd; VK2BT, A.
Gibbons, oscilloscope, Waverley R.C., 4th.
Section 2. —For the most efficiently designed
and correctly built multi-band transmitter:
VK2OW, B. Dymock, Lakemba R.C., Ist;
VK2TI, W. G. Ryan, Waverley R.C., 2nd;
VK2WQ, C. Wilkins, Manly R.C., 3rd. For
the most efficiently designed and correctly built
amateur receiver: VK2XX, B. Dale, Ist;
VK2JX, P. Adams, 2nd; VK2TF, R. Cohen,
3rd. For the most compact and complete
portable station: VK2ZC, J. Cowan, Newcastle
R.C., Ist; VK2IK, A. J. Brown, Zero Beat
R C., 2nd: VK2VG, R. Corthron, North
Suburban R.C., 3rd. For the best ultra-high-
frequency receiver: VK2IV, W. Smith, Manly
R.C., Ist. No other prizes were awarded m
this subsection. For the best ultra-high-
frequency transmitter: VK2WN, M. Lusby,
Waverley R.C.. Ist; VK2IV, W. Smith, Manly
R.C.. 2nd: VK28.1, K. Burnett, North
The stand of a. radio trader who caters wholeheartedly for the
amateur and short-wave listener — Price’s Radio, of Angel-place,
Sydney. Here were to be seen many new lines, including the
British Formo, Jackson and Cyldon condensers.
Suburban R.C., 3rd. For the best example of
individual apparatus: VK.2LZ, C. Bischofl, test
equipment, Ist; VK2DU, D. Millen, automatic
kev 2nd; VK2WD, W. Dukes, power ampli-
fier, 3rd; VK2DN, J. Parris, frequency meter,
4th. ...
The prize for the best novelty exhibit was
won by VK2BJ, K. Burnett, and the longest
distance exhibit by VK2IG, R. Ross, Albury,
N.S.W.
The exhibition committee has also recom-
mended a special award of merit to Gordon
Wells, of Waverley R.C., for his meritorious
low definition television demonstration.
City Short-wave Diallings.
To the average city man, who does
not rise much before breakfast-time these
frosty mornings and who does not return
home from his work until after dark, a
short-wave set holds out very limited
possibilities of present enjoyment. The
writer would be the last to discourage
anyone from joining the ranks of short-
wave fans, but it would be only fair to
point out to the new recruit that he is
likely to experience some disappointment
until the season changes. If, of course,
he belongs to the privileged class that
can afford to listen-in during the daytime,
it is another matter ; he will find good
stations, at some hour or other, all over
the dial. But at night he must content
himself with rather indifferent reception
over a restricted range—the Javanese
stations, the Japanese JVN and RVIS
Khabarovsk.
It is during these periods of frustration
that one is most ready to respond to
the suggestion of altering the aerial-
even an" aerial that has rendered excel-
lent service —in the hope of getting better
results. One is not really optimistic
about it, but once the idea becomes im-
planted in the mind it begins to germi-
nate until at length it assumes the pro-
portions of a categorical imperative. In
the writer’s case the urge was to try out
a 67ft. single-wire antenna with lead-in
1 lft. from the centre as recommended by
Frank Jones. This was put up without
trouble, was used for a week on the
short waves, and was then transferred .o
a broadcast set in order that it might be
replaced by the V-doublet of the G.E.C.
type it had dispossessed. Not that the
single-wire antenna proved a failure: far
from it. On the 20m. and 40m. bands it
gave the best reception (considering the
conditions) the writer has yet obtained.
Away from these bands, however, the
ratio of noise-level to signal strength was
high, and it was with relief that the V-
doublet was restored. Taking it by and
large, I doubt if there is a more satis-
factory aerial for general use than the
G.E.C. type. It gives quiet, strong, even


RADIITRDHS
ALL METAL” OR “GLASS”-A VALVE FOR EVERY REQUIREMENT
Radiotrons IC4 and !D4 give greater efficiency and
economy in battery consumption.
Insist on your receiver being equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
1(7-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
FREAKS
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
ire lest Valve
S
mpany Limited)
reception, and is but little affected by
outside interference. In my own house-
hold the only thing it seriously objects
to is the cake-mixer.
Listeners who have followed the Rus-
sian stations for any length of time will
have gathered that either there is some-
thing very unreal in the picture of Rus-
sian conditions that the cables and articles
in the daily press have built up in the
popular mind or else Russia itself is
undergoing a significant transformation.
Perhaps there is truth in both these
hypotheses. One is naturally critical of
the “soapy stuff”—the crudely egotistical
propaganda that flows endlessly from
RNE. But who would expect a Soviet
station to be regaling its listeners with
such bourgeois fare as Ketelby’s “In a
Monastery Garden”? Between Mous-
sorgsky and Ketelby—what a chasm!
My interest in the Russian mind is in-
tensified by a book I have been reading
lately, A Journey Due North, by George
Augustus Sala, written 80 years ago. I
can give but one sample of its contents.
“The Russians are extravagantly fond of
red. That a thing is red implies with
them that it is beautiful; indeed, they
have but one word — preknasse —to ex-
press both redness and beauty. The
favorite Russian flower is the rose;
though, alas! that has far more fre-
quently to be admired in paper or wax
than in actual existence. A crimson
petticoat is the holiday dress of a peasant
The television apparatus installed by
VK2GC and VK2WN, in action most
of the time the exhibition was open.
People crowded round to get their first
“look-in."
girl: and to have a red shirt is one of
the dearest objects of a moujik’s
ambition.”
Mention in the press of a proposal to
introduce a system of Parliamentary gov-
ernment into Russia whetted one’s curio-
sity as to what Karl Radek would say in
his two talks from RNE on the draft
of the new Constitution. Actually he
gave little but well-worn generalities.
“The Constitution,” he said, “is no longer
a declaration of the rights of the work-
ing-classes, but a declaration of what
has been achieved”—after which he pro-
ceeded to demonstrate how the Russian
toilers had won the right to work, the
right to rest, the right to be educated,
the right to freedom in the expression of
opinion and the right to freedom of re-
ligious worship.
P. R. W.
What’s What in Radio.
Acoustics has had practical application
at Sydney’s new Trocadero by the intro-
duction of a system of sound reinforce-
ment reordinated with correct acoustical
design of the building. The architects
secured the co-operation of the A.W.A.
research engineers. The result was a
planned treatment of the ceilings and the
walls and an arrangement of amplifying
equipment with specially-designed high-
fidelity loudspeakers, which provide a
clear, even and ample volume of music
to all parts of the hall. The orchestra is
heard with equal volume all over the
floor, echoes and dead spots being
entirely absent.
* * * *
A new short-wave broadcasting station
is located in the capital of Iceland,
Reykjavik. The station commenced in
April this year, with the callsign pro-
nounced “Ottvarp Raykyaveek,” and may
be heard at times with an announcement
in English, “The Icelandic Short-wave
Broadcaster.” The wave-length is 24.52
metres.
All Round the Dial.
Zeh Bouck, the U.S.A. radio critic,
has a few words to say about the bed-
time story fare dished out to kiddies on
almost any American broadcasting
station. “Excellent bedtime - story
material on any station from 5 to 8 p.m.
any day—tommy guns, thugs, punks, gun
molls, cattle thieves, dope smugglers,
Chink smugglers, racketeers, rods, gang-
sters, escaped convicts, tear-gas bombs,
murder, mayhem, arson, aeronautical
crooks, kidnappers, mugs, gamblers and
a host of other folk whose two attributes
seem to be general nastiness and an in-
capability of speaking three consecutive
words of the English language in the
manner taught the kids a couple of hours
earlier in school. All this with the com-
pliments of your child’s favorite break-
fast food. Where, oh! where is Peter
Pan? Peter Pan? Why, yes—of course
—and starring Freddie Bartholomew.
Monday evening, from nine to ten, just
to make sure that the kids are in bed
and asleep!”
* $ * $
Eric Barker, an English monologist, is to
do sketches for the A.B.C. W. G. James,
acting-manager for Victoria, witnessing
a sketch on the stage, was profoundly
impressed with Mr. Barker’s style and
skill. Four years ago Mr. Barker took
to writing sketches, and met with instan-
taneous success. He has also acted in
them, and has appeared with the Bir-
mingham, Oxford and Croydon Reper-
tory Societies.
* * * *
Commencing on July 6 the Vic. divi-
sion of the A.B.C. is to introduce a new
type of broadcast that will feature de-
bates. Well-known speakers have been
chosen for the discussions, which will
deal with modern world affairs, and the
broadcasts will take place twice weekly.
Palec Laboratory-type Dials.
A radio component hitherto not easily
obtainable in Australia is the large-sized
engraved metal dial of the kind eminently
suitable for use in frequency meters and
signal generators. Overseas makes have
been available for some time, necessarily
at a high price. Paton Electrical Instru-
ment Co., of Ashfield (N.S.W.), has come
to the rescue with a first-class type of
laboratory dial, suitable for many pur-
poses, and destined to become very
popular. The model illustrated is of cast
and machined aluminium, 6in. in
diameter, and accurately engraved. It
is provided with a vernier graduation
scale and a slow-motion friction drive.
The price is 16s. A 4in. type of similar
construction is also available.
“12-50” l gin. Short-wave Coil
Formers.
Illustrated are samples of the new Lfin.
plug-in type formers recommended for
the Ideal Amateur Superhet (B. 15/4/’36).
These formers are made of very high-
grade insulation material, and are at
present available in four- and five-pin
bases. The advantages of the l|in.
diameter are: Coils may be made up to
correspond with American winding
charts, which invariably specify this size ;
small tuning capacities may be used for
band-spreading at lower frequencies
with close-wound coils, and the size
renders them adaptable and suitable for
short-wave transmitter circuits. They
are made by Standardised Products Co.,
Hedger-avenue, Ashfield (N.S.W.), and
can be supplied, to order, with threaded
surface for space-winding. Price is
2s. 6d. from Price’s Radio Service,
Angel-place, and John Martin, Ltd.,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
Webster Crystal Pickups.
Many homes to-day make use of elec-
trical reproduction of recordings, either
by means of an amplifier or by using the
audio channel of the broadcast receiver.
Amplifier, radiogram combination or re-
ceiver, a great deal depends upon the fre-
quency characteristics of the pickup,
and a good audio channel is of little use
if this important apparatus is lacking.
Some time ago, the crystal type of
pickup won favor in Australia, largely
because of its high output.
A crystal pickup can be used with an
amplifier, where other types of pickups
would need extra gain by means of extra
valves. Its action is quite different from
that of the familiar magnetic type. A
specially-treated crystal of Rochelle salt
is coated with tinfoil on each side, with
connections taken from this foil. One
side of the crystal is attached to the
needle-holder and the other is fixed. The
record vibrations are passed to the
crystal, which develops a voltage differ-
ence between the sections in a manner
somewhat similar to a condenser.
Although Rochelle salt is easily made
experimentally, it is of little use com-
mercially, unless specially treated to pre-
vent, disintegration. The crystal used in
the new Webster crystal pickups, mar-
keted in this country by Amplion (A’sia),
Ltd., is treated to last indefinitely.
Samples submitted for test and examina-
tion proved a remarkable advance over
the magnetic type of pickup. Used with
an almost faultless amplifier, their clarity
of tone is maintained without evidence
of loss at the lower frequencies.
The type illustrated is the standard tone
arm for general use. The frequency re-
sponse is flat within 2d.b. from 40 to
5000 cycles, with a constantly rising out-
put from 5000 to 8000 cycles. It is thus
ideal for use with high-fidelity amplifiers
and speakers where extremely fine record
reproduction is necessary. The output
at 1000 cycles is .7 volt, and the im-
pedance 85,000 ohms. This (model X73A)
and model X7OA are finished in attrac-
tive copper bronze, and can be supplied
with or without volume control as de-
sired. For use with 16in. records, there
is an exceptionally well designed model,
14in. in length. This is counterbalanced,
and the length from the needle point to
the base centre is lts chief interest
is for broadcasting stations and public-
address amplifier engineers.
An interesting feature of the Webster
lines carried by Amplion is the individual
crystal cartridge. This is a crystal pickup
unit only, so that anybody can make up
his own crystal pickup by assembly on
a standard tone arm. Prices range from
£4 10s. for the ordinary pickup to £9 for
the 16in. record size. The cartridge heads
cost £2 10s. separately.
The Q. and A. Column.
Would like advice on studying; radio and
entering that field. What positions would you
suggest ? —443.
The first necessities are a thorough grounding
in electricity fundamentals and a good know-
ledge of mechanics. These can be learned
from many textbooks. Correspondence
schools are also beneficial. Later, some experi-
ence of receiver servicing will help considerably,
and it would do no harm to follow the amateur
side of radio. If you are in a district where
experienced servicemen are scarce, this aspect
is important, for a successful sales and service
business might be worked up.
* * * *
I have a receiver on which reception is not
as good as originally. At times I get a fan-
amount of distortion on either indoor or short
outdoor aerial. Accessories are advertised as
giving improved reception on any radio, simpli-
fied tuning, increased selectivity and distance-
getting ability with background noises elimi-
nated. Are these claims justified P—442.
In the first place, it is possible that the occa-
sional distortion noticed in your receiver is
due to atmospheric conditions. There arc
frequent occasions in some country areas where
all stations appear to be distorted. The occur-
rence is usually accompanied by fading, and
after a while the signal becomes normal. These
things happen because broadcasting stations
put their radiated signal in all directions. Sub-
stitutes give nothing , equal to the signal
pick-up qualities of an elevated, well-
insulated aerial. They usually contain
circuits resonant at-, or capable of being
adjusted to, the required frequencies. The
modern receiver is highly sensitive. To prove
tins, advance the volume control on any recent
model, place a finger on the aerial terminal,
and tune for stations. The human body col-
lects quite a lot of signal. Connect any object
possessing metal mass or moisture to the aerial
terminal and the result is the same. If you
find one of the advertised accessories functions
suitably on your receiver in place of a good
external aerial, it is at least convenient. But
if you wish to obtain the best that you can
possibly obtain from your receiver, the old
saying that “a good aerial is more than two-
thirds the battle” still holds good.


USEFUL DATA ON TERRAPLANE.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. ii
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.H.
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h,
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft.
Maximum speed, 80 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 24.9 m.p.g.
10 seconds.
in top in 6 3-5
in second in 4
*SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic *
The Steering Column.
By FRED BERRY.
STOCK MODEL TERRAPLANE GIVES
SPORTS CAR PERFORMANCE.
ROADHOLDING, STEERING AND BRAKES GREATLY
IMPROVED.
NOW in its fifth year of production, the Terraplane has again
realised its designers’ aim to produce a car having a road
performance that sets a standard for others. A long list of
achievements testifies to the success of this policy.
Performance of this year’s model is, if anything, slightly
better than that of its predecessor, but of greater interest to
motorists are certain new features in design which make the
car inherently stable at all road speeds and delightfully steady
on corners, so that performance ability can be used with com-
plete safety, controllability and comfort.
Hitherto, unusually good road perform-
ances by stock cars have been secured by
the fitting of specially l -tuned engines or
by so lightening chassis and body as to
jeopardise reliability, but in the Terra-
plane superior results are attained without
deviating from standard construction.
A high-efficiency, reliable engine de-
veloping almost one-half horse-power for
each cubic inch of piston displacement
and a fixed policy of eliminating dead-
weight without sacrificing strength are
responsible for an assembly in which the
power-weight ratio is exceptionally
favorable.
Mounted in the chassis at three points
on live rubber cushions the six-cyl.
engine tested, equipped with a seven-to-
one compression power dome cylinder
head, develops 100 b.h.p. at 3800 r.p.m.
Bore is 3in., stroke sin., piston displace-
ment 212 cubic inches and R.A.C. rating
21.6 h.p.
The special high-compression head is
now cast in aluminium, dissipating the
heat of burning gases rapidly, and per-
mitting maximum power to be de
veloped, even when using standard fuels
without knocking or detonation.
The cylinder block is of hard chrome
alloy iron and is cast integral with the
upper half of the crankcase. The lower
half of the crankcase is cast on the
bridge truss principle, being heavily
ribbed internally to supply a rigid sup-
port for the crankshaft bearings. The
cylinder bores are honed to a mirror
finish before assembly, so reducing the
time necessary for running-in a new
engine.
Distributor unit with cover-plate removed,
showing (a) cam block; (b) breaker-arm
pivot; (c and k) adjusting nut and clamp-
ing plate, with vernier scale for manual
spark adjustment; (d) rotor arm; (f) oil
cup; (h and j) lock-nut and adjusting
screw of make-and-break points.
Side-by-side valves are fitted, with
inlets of nichrome and exhausts of sill -
chrome steel. The valve stems and
guides are larger than in previous models,
giving greater strength, reducing wear
and preventing distortion. Valve springs
arc cadmium-plated and fitted with speci-
ally-designed metal cups over the lower
coils to maintain alignment and avoid
“flutter” at high revs.
Tappet clearances with motor hot arc:
Inlet, six thou.; exhaust', eight thou. The
tappet gear, of roller-cam design, is silent
in operation. The camshaft, running on
three large babbitt-lined bearings, is
driven by helical gears, that on the cam-
shaft being built up of laminated bakelite.
Pistons are T-slot, low-expansion, cam-
ground, of pinned-ring type, made of
silicon-aluminium alloy. Four rings are
fitted, two compression and one oil re-
tainer above the wrist pin and one oil
ring in the piston skirt. Pinned in posi-
tion to prevent chatter or eccentric
cylinder wear, the slots are staggered to
obviate blow-by of burning gases.
The 1936 four-door Terraplane sedan, with steel body, turret-type one-piece
pressed-steel roof and V-type safety glass windscreen.
Piston pins are in floating bushes,
diamond bored and lapped to an exact
fit. Connecting rods are of forged steel,
1 section, with spun babbitt bearings,
shims being provided for adjustment.
Lower bearing caps are fitted with oil
scoops. The fully-compensated Hudson
patent crankshaft runs on three bronze-
backed, babbitt-lined main bearings, is
balanced statically and dynamically,
fitted with counterweights and equipped
with a rubber-insulated torsional vibra-
tion damper on the front end.
Uniform distribution of fuel mixture
to all cylinders is secured by a special
design of radial intake manifold, to
which is fitted a. Triple Venturi down-
draught carburettor. Automatic choke,
controlled by thermostat and vapor-lock
relief valve, ensures smoothness of opera-
tion and easy starting at all temperatures.
The gauze-type air cleaner and silencer
can be readily detached for cleaning by
removing a single wing nut on the outer
cover.
Fuel is held in a 12-gallon tank at rear
and is drawn to the carburettor by a
mechanical pump through a pipe line on
the outside of the frame, so avoiding
vapor-locks due to exhaust heat.
Electrical equipment is six volt. The
generator is of the new high-output,
voltage-regulated, third-brush type, with
fan-forced ventilation.
Maximum charging
rate is reached at 28
m.p.h. in top.
The starter motor
uses a Bendix drive
and is actuated by a
finger-touch starter on
the dash through a
solenoid switch.
Cranking speed is
higher than in earlier
models.
Ignition is by coil
and battery, with full
automatic spark ad-
vance in the distribu-
for head. Plugs are of 14mm. type;
breaker-point gap, 20 thou.; spark-plug
gap, 25 thou. Firing sequence is 1,5, 3,
6,2,
The engine is lubricated by the Hudson
duo-flow principle, oil being drawn from
the sump by a double-geared pump and
forced through two large-diameter pipes
to working parts and bearings at the
front and rear of the crankshaft. Flow-
ing downwards from these sections the
oil runs into the first and sixth troughs
below the crankshaft, and so in succession
to each of the remaining four troughs.
As the crankshaft rotates, scoops below
each big-end bearing dip into the oil
reservoir and force the lubricant into the
journal, at the same time throwing a
considerable quantity on to the cylinder
walls and pistons. This oil on draining
back is trapped in channels and thence
conducted into reservoirs located over
each camshaft and crankshaft bearing,
from which these bearings are directly
lubricated. Excess oil flows by gravity
through cooling baffles and a fine gauze
filter to the sump, whence it is again cir-
culated through the system.
Water is circulated through the cooling
system by a mechanical pump mounted
in tandem with a four-bladed fan and
driven, together with the generator, by a
belt from the crankshaft pulley. Tem-
perature is regulated by a thermostat
located in the cylinder head.
Transmission is through a single-plate,
cork-insert, oil-cushioned clutch, the
clutch housing being heavily ribbed for
increased rigidity, and sealed against oil
leakage. Gears, three forward and one
reverse, are constant-mesh, helical-cut,
with silent second. Low and reverse arc
automatically “demeshed” when either
second or high is engaged or when
transmission is in neutral. Ratios are:
Top, direct; second, 1.61 to 1 ; low, 2.42
to 1 ; reverse, 2.99 to 1.
Final drive is of Hotchkiss type, the
tubular propeller shaft having needle
roller universal joints at both ends. Rear
axle is semi-floating, carried in a one-
piece, welded, banjo-type housing. Bevel
drive gears are helical-cut, and final
reduction is 4.11 to 1.
The chassis has a wheelbase of 115 in.
and a minimum ground clearance of
8 7-16 in. Construction is rigid, of
box-girder design, with X cross-
member in centre and K member
at front. The entire rear struc-
ture is stiffened by a heavy
pressed-steel cross-member
forming the floor of the
body.
Long semi-elliptic
springs are fitted
front and rear,
shackled at both
ends with U-type self-
adjusting shackles. Hy-
draulic -shock-absorbers, ad-
justable for tension, are fitted.
The front axle is attached to the chassis
frame by two torque arms, which ensure
accurate positioning of the axle and re-
lieve the front springs of braking stresses
and all loads other than that of support-
ing the weight of the vehicle. The torque
Air-cooled generator, fan, water pump
and thermostatic temperature control—
(a and c) oil and grease points; (b) adjust-
ment for belt tension.
arms are attached to the frame through
large rubber bushings to absorb road
shock. Springs are mounted on bearings
which permit free turning on axle centre.
Torque rods of the radial-control type
prevent any change of castor angle, im-
prove stability and render steering lighter
and more positive.
Steering gear is of worm-and-sector
type, the steering column being adjust-
able for driving position. Reduction
ratio is 17 to I. Turning circle is 40ft.
Service brakes are hydraulic, duo-
automatic on all four wheels. Emergency
and parking brakes on the rear wheels
are applied by hand lever of “direct pull”
design located under the right side of the
dash. The service footbrake is also
coupled to the emergency mechanical sys-
tem, coming into operation only in cases


New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
*O3 3 8
SIMONIZ
YOUR
CAR
It Will Sparkle Like New Again!
AFTER
SOER ISY Aljlj good motor stores.
SMALL, 3/6; LAROJS, 5/--.
when the hydraulic system has failed or
the foot pedal is depressed beyond cer-
tain limits.
Body is of unit steel construction, the
turret-type roof being made in one
stamping and free from seams or joints.
Sheets of muffle board are cemented to
the underside of the roof to prevent
drumming and resist rapid changes of
temperature.
Front and rear seats each accommo-
date three passengers, and the front seat
is adjustable for driving position.
Draughtless individual ventilation is
provided at front and rear quarter win-
dows. At speeds in excess of 10 m.p.h.
air is exhausted through the side ven-
tilators and replaced by fresh air drawn
through a cavity under the rear seat and
provided with a “filtering bag.” By this
Underside view of new design front axle suspension —(a)
torque arms; (b) spring-pad bearings; (c) silent threaded
shackles front and rear. Note also the direct-thrust, telescopic-
type adjustable hydraulic shock-absorbers.
method the air in closed bodies should
always be fresh. The cowl ventilator,
located immediately in front of the V-
type unbreakable windscreen, is 17in. in
length.
Accessories include duplex vacuum
windscreen-wipers, hinged at bottom, sun
visors, rear-vision mirrors, dome light,
assist cords, etc.
A commodious rear luggage compart-
ment, hinged at the top, gives ready
access from the ground level. The spare
wheel is housed in a separate compart-
ment below the luggage space. In the
tool kit the new-type jack can be placed
under the front or rear bumper when
changing wheels instead of under axle or
springs.
The instrument panel is neatly grouped
in the centre of the dash, the large speed-
ometer being flanked by electric fuel
gauge and water temperature indicator.
Conventional oil gauge and ammeter are
replaced by red warning lights which
glow when either unit ceases to function.
The four-door sedan model taken over
the test course had already run 5888
miles. The engine, having been thor-
oughly run in, was quiet, smooth and in
excellent mechanical adjustment.
Driven by B. L. Tyson, of Dalgetys,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors, the vehicle,
with driver, observer and full petrol tank,
weighed 304 cwt., registered weight
(empty) 27cwt. being one hundredweight
greater than that of last year’s model.
Through busy thoroughfares in the city
the driver demonstrated ease of handling,
light steering, amazing acceleration and
excellent brakes all being characteristic
Terraplane features. Once on the open
country roads cruising at high speed was
safely and comfortably accomplished by
reason of the excellent stability and road-
holding qualities made possible by the
newly-designed front end.
From a speed of 15 m.p.h. in rolling
test the car ran 658
yards before stop-
ping. A test of
maximum speed
was frustrated at
first attempt by
heavy fog, but later
the flying mile was
clocked in 45sec.,
averaging 80 m.p.h.
Climbing the
final 2 1-5 miles of
Kurrajong Moun-
tain in the fast time
of 3min. 13 l-ssec.,
the Terraplane was
steady, safe and
free from skids or
rolling when driven
fast through the
many acute bends.
Slow running in
top gear over 350
yards in 2min.
30sec., averaging
4.8 m.p.h., was fol-
aceele rated one-fifth
crossing the finish-
lowed by an
mile in 15 l-ssec,
ing line at 65
m.p.h., and aver-
aging 47.3 m.p.h.
Ten to thirty
m.p.h. in top gear
was clocked in
6 3-ssec., 10 to
3 0 m. p. h. i n
second in 4sec.,
and from a
standstill to 50
m.p.h. in 10sec.,
figures which
prove without
further com-
ment the amaz-
ing road per*
formance given
by this compara-
tively small
engine.
From 25 m.p.h. the brakes stopped the
car in 21ft., and petrol taken to fill the
tank at the end of the 127.8-mile test (in-
cluding two attempts at the flying mile)
was sgal. 1 pint, averaging 24.9 m.p.g.
(38.2 ton miles), which, taken in con-
junction with an average road speed of
37.4 m.p.h., is an excellent all round
achievement.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
M.D. (Artarmon, N.S.W.). —Having done
7000 mites in a ’36 model car, I have had a
top overhaul and valve grind, and now find
compression worse than before job was done.
Cause and cure ?
Advise running the car 500 miles before
making final decision. It frequently happens
that, owing to disturbing valve seats or to fine
particles of carbon preventing intimate con-
tact, compression is relatively poor immediately
after an overhaul. Usually this is rectified
after a little running in.
* * * *
A.E.G. (Cunnamulla, Q.). —Which of the two
cars named should give most satisfactory service
in this district ?
B should suit you best.
* * * *
L.C. (Sunnycliffs, Vic.). —My car is a Willys
77 (17,806 miles). At 597 miles l started to
use upper cylinder lubricant; at 5238 miles
began with colloidal graphite in sump and fuel;
at 12,146 miles had heads off and engine
examined. There was practically no wear,
compression was excellent and the car was
doing 30 to 35 m.p.g. on petrol. Now 1 have
been advised to discontinue graphite in the
sump and petrol, as it is likely to choke the
oilways. Is this so ?
No, colloidal graphite will not clog oilways
if used as directed. However, as a good sur-
face has now been obtained on cylinders and
bearings, you could economise, without sacri-
ficing efficiency, by using half quantities from
now on.
* * * =i=
R.G.H. (Toorloo, Vic.). —Have seen it stated
on this page that maximum power output is
reached before maximum revs. Does not a
car going at 90 m.p.h., as recorded in a recent
test, need more power to propel it than at 85 ?
Also 1 have read that in the Model T Ford
the torque is greater at 900 revs, than at 1600.
Is this so ?
If you care to study power curve graphs
you will find that max. power and max. revs.
“You gave him a pound! You let a man with half his senses knocked
out of him talk you out of a pound!”
seldom, if ever, coincide. As a general rule,
overrun allows approximately 10 p.c. added
revs, over max. b.h.p. output, and in the test
mentioned, with tyre size, back-end ratio and
distance clearly set out, you will find engine
revs, very close to maximum b.h.p. output as
indicated on the graph. As to the T Ford,
your information is approximately correct, and
that was the reason why hills could be negoti-
ated on top and yet on the level or easy grades
speeds far in excess of max. b.h.p. revs, could
be attained.
* $ *
H.A.M. (Narrandera, N.S.W.). —My 14 -h.p.
’29 model, for the first mile or two after start-
ing off from cold, makes a grating noise which
seems to come from the clutch or gearbox,
but when the engine has warmed up the noise
disappears and does not reappear even if the
car is driven all day.
Symptoms described are usual with this
type of clutch, particularly in cold weather.
Such noises have no mechanical significance,
being merely due to cold oil accumulating
round the cork insets in the clutch. Suggest
that on starting you should move the clutch
pedal in and out several times until the lubri-
cant reaches normal working temperature.
$ * :J:
8.1. L. (Wairoa, M.L.).- —Will the torsion-bar
type of suspension as fitted to car named
stand up to conditions in M.L. ?
Yes; it is an excellent idea.
3^
F.M. (Albany, W.A.). —(1) My \4-h.p. road-
ster has been rebored 40 thou, oversize. Oil
consumption is very good, but petrol consump-
tion is now only 23 m.p.g. What is a fair
result to expect with engine and fuel system
in good order, and would you recommend any
alteration ? (2) Am thinking of buying a new
light car for use over rough country roads.
Which of the three named would you advise ?
(1) After a 40 thou, rebore, piston displace-
ment is greatly increased and, while top-gear
performance is usually bettered, fuel consump-
tion is correspondingly greater. Suggest re-
placing existing C.A. cylinder head gasket by a
thin annealed copper sheet or, alternatively,
planing the head to increase compression ratio.
(2) Order of preference is 3, 2 and 1.
* * * *
H.V.B. (Guy’s Forest, Vic.). —(1) My ’35
model six-cylinder car (4000 miles') has averaged
only 15.7 m.p.g. over the last 1000 miles,
although distributors claim it will do 20 m.p.g.
at 40 m.p.h. What’s wrong ? (2) Over the
last 500 miles I have put \ gal. oil in the
sump to replace lubricant used. Have I cause
for worry ?
(1) Provided the car is in good mechanical
condition, valves and rings gastight fit and
ignition and timing according to standard speci-
fication, fuel consumption depends almost en-
tirely upon driving methods. Under normal con-
ditions on a continuous run over main roads
at an average of 30 m.p.h. you should get about
20 m.p.g., but this figure can be as low as 15
or as high as 30, depending entirely upon
skill and experience of driver. (2) A thousand
miles to a gallon of oil is definitely excessive,
and the motor should be checked for leakage in
oil pipes, excessive wear in pistons, rings or
cylinder bores or such other mechanical
defects as may influence oil consumption.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“C.H.F.”: Southland (M.L.) is over-
run with rabbits, and night-driving is
positively dangerous. Dozens of the
creatures meet sudden death when para-
lysed by oncoming glaring headlights.
The other night a motorist couldn’t
avoid a rabbit. He heard a thump
under the mudguard and concluded that
the animat had been caught in the wheel
and whirled round before being thrown
clear. Later on his tyre went flat; the
splintered bones of the rabbit had pene-
trated tyre and tube.
* * * *
“Roly”: Here’s an instance of what
our Queensland bush ambulance brigades
often do quite unostentatiously. A
’phone call came from Clarke River
telegraph station to Charters Towers
(normally a 12-hour run). Case of appen-
dicitis. The brigade set out and met
trouble in the hills six hours out. The
bad road landed the car into a washout,
breaking the battery-carrier, smashing the
battery and fusing all lights except the
parking lights. The ambulance men
walked back eight miles to a tinminer
at Stockyard Creek, borrowed a battery
from him and proceeded slowly with
only emergency lights. At daybreak they
were held up 12
miles from Clarke
River by the flooded
Gin Creek. As there
were no communica-
tions with Clarke
River from here
they took an alterna-
tive route,
returning
part of the
way and
going round
by a neigh-
boring sta-
tion. Here
they were
circu in-
vented by a
heavy fall of rain
on black soil.
Clarke River was
’phoned and ar-
rangements made
for the patient to
go by horseback
to Gin Creek.
The ambulance
brigade mean-
while took four
hours longer to return, the extra hours
being spent' in bogs. But they got their
patient to the hospital, though getting
him there occupied nearly two days.


(<
THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded b y the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
the mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
"The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Kvdney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
P. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
"THE MAIL"
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE— News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE —A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. ' Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON —F. A. Smyth, S 4-40. Luc!gate
Hill, E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post’ brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post’’
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
let
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into (he Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
liiiiUling, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
.Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, JLtd., Adelaide.
'The Examiner" puohsnes every Wednesday a Sup-
plement for Women containing all the social news
and specialised features concerning the woman and
the home. It is the womans own newspaper, and
rivals Australia’s best. It not only reaches the home, but
stays there. . You can reach the women of Northern las-
mania only by advertising in “The Examiners’ Womens
Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Hates from
W R ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M.*S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
FREAKS
Women’s
Supplement
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia-
He turned towards the bedroom door, forgetful
of everything except that Joyce had come.
“Wait! ”
He turned impatiently.
“Paul!”
It was Lola who spoke this time.
“Paul!” she said again, and he saw from her
eyes that she knew herself to be facing her decisive
time. He could see that she did not want to let him
go. Even to the last she had hoped to win him back.
“Paul, don’t go!”
“Hush! I must. Didn’t you hear her call me?”
“But I don’t want you to go. T want to keep you.”
She tried to put her arms around him, but he
put her away ; and as they stood apart they could hear
loyce once more, her voice a little fainter, as if she had
gone out to the terrace and was calling him there.
“Paul!”
He turned again, and again Lola held him back.
But this time her movements were abrupt, and the
love had gone from her eves when he faced her.
“Wait!”
“Hush! It's no use, Lola. I’m going.”
“You’re not! You’re staying here! I’ll go and
sec her. I’ll explain everything. She won’t want you
then. I’ll come back to you. Wait!”
She would have hurried past him, but he seized her.
“No,” he said. “If there’s any tale-telling I’ll do
it myself. I can attend to my own confession, Lola.”
He could see that she was afraid of his new
firmness, and that she was suddenly aware of the
possibility that Joyce might be equal to forgiveness.
“That won’t do,” she said in a louder voice.
“She’s got to hear all the truth, and I’m the only one
who can give it to her. Don’t stop me, Paul. Your
turn can come later.”
He was alarmed at her louder voice and afraid
that Joyce, hearing her, should come up and find them
here. He put his hands on her, and when she tried
to get away he tightened his hold.
" “Let me go!” she said loudly. “Let me go, Paul,
or I’ll call out to her. I tell you, I’ll call out”—
Her voice was rising towards a scream, and Paul
put a hand over her mouth and seized her more
roughly than he realised.
“Be quiet,” he muttered, “or I’ll silence you for
a long time!”
He had one hand over her mouth and another
at her throat; and she struggled to free herself. He
glared down at her and saw the anger in her eyes melt
into terror. They grew larger, and he thought he could
see blood in them. This frightened him, and he let
her go, and immediately she gasped painfully and
fell to the floor. He bent over her in surprise, and
as he did so she turned towards him in a weak and
helpless way, as if fumbling for something. It was
clear that he was no longer of any importance to
her. A new and dreadful presence held her straining
attention, a presence that seemed to feed upon her :
for as it grew stronger and almost tangible the blood
ebbed from her face and the life went out of her eyes.
But this was not enough. It must have her hreath ;
and presently, with a painful contraction of her
throat, she yielded this also.
“Lola!” whispered Paul. ‘Lola
He knelt beside her and lifted her head. But
the eyes could not see him, and already the face was
becoming impersonal and unfamiliar. He let her
lie back on the floor and stared unbelievingly. Could
death come like this, so suddenly, without warning?
But there had been a warning. Lola had seen the
face of death turned towards her as she waited by
the pool. It was then that Paul had seen her physical
condition for the first time, realising that there was
some weakness she had hidden from him —and per-
haps from herself as well. But there had been no
time to remember these things. And now she lay
there and would know him no more.
And from the hall downstairs came the voice of
Joyce seeking him.
“Paul!”
. Chapter VII.
/. i... :
THE dining-room was long, and two sets of glass
doors were open to the night. - Outside was a
dim beauty of blue and silver and a faint magnet-
ism which might have been merely a promise of
moonlight, but could seem to an excited mind to be
something more.
A fire had been laid in the open grate, with full
coal-scuttles and a box of small logs standing by ;
and when Joyce had added a last loving touch to
the table she put a match to the paper and watched
the flames climb up through kindling and coal and
send, the first of their red waves flowing along the
mats and the.polished floor.
-i “Shall - we- leave the candles alight?” she asked,
“or shall we put them out and be satisfied with the
fi reglow?”
“Put them out, by all means,” said Paul, who
had been standing at a window looking down across
the shoulder of the knoll towards the trees. “I’m
glad your uncle couldn’t have electric light out here.”
' “So. am I, although it would have been convenient,
of course. Don’t you love the firelight?”
“[ should think so. And if you come here and
look up the valley you’ll love it even more.”
She came to his side and they stood together,
listening to the crackling of the fire and watching the
valley shadows.
“I know what you mean,” said Joyce. “It’s
primeval. We’re like simple creatures building a fire
in the depth of a forest. The trees are below us, but
we can’t escape them. We have our little shelter
from the darkness; the stars are overhead, and soon
there’ll be a moon. Paul, we’re man and woman in
the wilderness. Even this house can’t break the illu-
sion. There isn’t any other world. We don’t know what
lies.beyond those trees; we don’t want'to know.”
“Joyce, dear, you’re simply expressing the ancient
wistfulness. You want time to stand still.”
“J know.”
She tucked her hand through his arm and leaned
against him,
“But I’ve waited so long for this hour, and you
mustn’t mind if I want to hold it. I want to look down
at it from every side and taste it to the last second.
I’m greedy.” . .
“You’re wonderful,” he said in a low voice. Too
wonderful. I’m afraid for you.”
“You mustn’t be. I know what you’re thinking.
You can’t help fearing that all this feeling must bring
its disappointments, and you keep linking yourself to
them, as if you knew you must fall short, and fail me.
You can’t "do that, dear, if you stay yourself—the
man I saw and loved in Papua. We don’t change
in a few months, and I’ll never believe I was wrong.”
“Sometimes there are things that happen outside
ourselves. Terrible things.”
“I know. Those are the things I’ve feared most:
death and injury and strange confusions with the law.
It’s surprising the number of possibilities an active
imagination can conceive when one is in love. Too
often I’ve tormented myself with thoughts of things
that could happen to you. I saw you in street accidents;
I was afraid of some swift illness ; I even had foolish
pictures of policemen and law. courts, as if, in some
absurd way, you had got yourself into trouble and
were going to be shut away from me for years. And
that was the worst of all, 1 think —to have you behind
walls and bars. But it was all silly, and simply came
from the fear of losing you. It's over now. I’m here
and you're here. I had my bad moments while I was
waiting for you to come. I began to feel lonely and
lost as I called and called and could get no reply.
Then you came, and the gladness made up for every-
thing. We’ll think no more of gloomy things. We’re
here.together in the silence and sweetness of the most
beautiful night ever born in May. Nothing can rob
us of our happiness.”
“Nothing,” he echoed in a low voice.
She looked at him.
“My dear, you’re trembling! You’re not cold?
“Perhaps a little. The day has been glorious, but
there’s a cool breeze coming up the valley.”
“I’m thoughtless to keep you standing here like
this, but I can’t help following you about—l can’t
grow used to you.”
She lifted her head, and he bent down and kissed
her. And as Paul felt her face against his own and
her body warm and close, he buried his lips in her
hair and longed to be able to lose certain dark hours
in the strength of their embrace. If only he could
put his hot face against her cool cheek and feel the
fever of his thought being drawn away from him!
If only he could close his eyes against her hair and
know that when they opened again they would no
longer be able to see the room upstairs and Lola
slipping to the floor in that last convulsive moment!
“My dear, you're still trembling. This won’t do!
Come away from these windows and I’ll dose them.
Besides, it’s time we sat down to the table I’ve pre-
pared so carefully. I’m not hungry, but I know that
you must be, and it’s after eight. ”
They sat down to a meal for which neither had
any appetite. Sitting opposite each other they were
content to talk at intervals or to be silent, and to
watch the firelight falling on white and silver, strik-
ing a diamond gleam from drops of water that clung
to lettuce leaves: mounting boldly across dishes of
tomatoes to dishes piled, high with fruit, and coming
at last to a high bowl of early roses, dusky red and
immaculately white.
“Sunset and dawn,” said Joyce, caressing the
blooms with her eyes. “You’ll see the color of those
red roses burning low above the hills some night, and
there’ll be that pure white in the sky to-morrow morn-
ing, just before the clouds begin to turn pink. It’s the
breathless moment when all the good work and beauty
of the day has its beginning—up there in the east.”
“My dear, you frighten me sometimes when you
talk like that. How can I climb after you into the skies?
My feet are on the earth, and I’d make a clumsy biid.
Joyce laughed softly.
“I love to have you here to hold on to me. But,
never fear: I’m an earth-woman first and last. Aren’t
you eating? I’m sure you must be hungry.”
He tried to make a show of eating, but the food
had no taste for him. ,
(To be continued next week.)


s'Vk,
'WKMimV*'
; ,Oi
\7
■2te
\/
Vi
%FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—-to a
slowing down of physical activity— to altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic,
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or'
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
Dr.NORSES
I
MAD £ IN AUSTRALIA
For Simple Constipation
PILLS
and Attendant Ills.
WORMS
Dangerous Parasites Cause
Havoc in the System
Worms are parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intended
to nourish the body. The two commonest types
of worms found in human beings are Thread
Worms and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
Pin Worms) are most common. They are
about one-quarter inch long, resembling a piece
of thread. They live in the lower bowel in
considerable numbers, particularly in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs are con-
tinually discharged in- the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
by flies, on the hair of household pets, in raw
food, in drinking water or merely by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms.—The symptoms of worm infec-
tion are many and often obscure. Itching of the
nose is one of the most common indications
of pin worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
upset or swollen stomach, desire to vomit,
voracious appetite and craving for strange
foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grinding teeth, a bluish look
about the eyes, nervousness and irritability.
In children convulsions sometimes occur. The
danger to the person infected by worms is not
so much in the symptoms themselves as in
certain results which may follow. The continual
irritation of the digestive tract may cause
a number of digestive disorders. The strain
on the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
the natural safeguards of the body against
disease are lowered and grave ailments may
be contracted.
Many physicians now believe that worms
are often a cause of appendicitis. It is
certain that worms are sometimes found in
the appendix.
Treatment.—For home treatment it is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and follow it with a laxa-
tive so that the worms and eggs will be ex-
pelled in the waste matter. Several treatments
should be taken to ensure that any eggs which
may remain will not start the trouble anew.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
made for just one purpose—to promote the
destruction of round and pin worms. A Specific
Medicine, they act on the worms only, and
can be given in cases where the presence of
worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Gp., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
MIRPIL
The Ideal Skin Lotion .
In addition to its excellent cooling and
soothing properties in cases of Windburn and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Smeared on the face and hands, it keeps
away mosquitoes.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on
the soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post paid upon receipt of postal notes
or stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
If writing, mention this paper.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1 k
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30j-.)
X
$1
0°
S)
A\ e
# •••
*M-


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
\
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
10ZN33Hl
M 2
m
r
m
H
«***
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
■P
m&m
wMi
m/:,
Wmm
PW'fS*
wmM
xmW4
•••••;•;
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children ,„d
.wlrtiS water!’according to the easy direction, on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that to £l.
t i ® j xt/-\nr otw r>ni«?ons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
Setv°to the y?ulge" y You wUI be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
safety to the youngest D y coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
tSt Alw, y? h.S Hec“ O re, ST in theWmc (or the firs. sign of a cough o, cold. Rememb.t,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Eeading Chemist and Stove in /Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy fot
COUGHS, corns,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST
