

ki
' f
l
LM
m.
WIWI
Real Roominess —plenty of room for six
wide-shouldered adults.
If
Radial Safety Control—makes RIDING
safer, STEERING safer, STOPPING
safer.
m
1
Hudson and Terraplane Sedans have
these capacious Trunks bigger than ever
before.
'///,
m
■ ::'v;
Duo-Automatic Hydraulic Brakes—show-
ing the special reserve mechanical sys-
tem which spells SAFETY underlined a
hundred times.
The New 1936
HUDSON Terra plane
have arrived in Australia
The Safest , Biggest Cars •.Ever Priced so Low!
TJ ERE are real 1936 Models—cars that sparkle with fresh new beauty
—'‘■and provide a size sensation enabling 20% more room than any other
popular car . . . and beneath this bigness and beauty—the safest cars on
to-day’s highways. The world’s first safety-engineered chassis, combined
with bodies —all of steel—brought to new heights of strength and beauty,
with an all-steel roof.
Come and find out what has happened to motoring as the result of——
FIVE THINGS YOU NEVER SAW BEFORE:
1. RADIAL SAFETY CONTROL
—a wholly new principle in safety chassis
engineering—that makes riding safer, steer-
ing safer and stopping safer than ever before.
2. THE RHYTHMIC RIDE
—long, gentle, “natural rhythm” springs are
free for the first time from steering and
braking strains—combining cushioned riding
with new stability that means greater safety c
3. TRU-LINE STEERING
—a new principle that enables the car to hold
its direction without swerving or “wander-
ing,” unaffected by spring action, braking
or road conditions.
4. Dl'O-AVTOMATIC HYDRAULIC BRAKES
—the first hydraulics that give double safe
stopping with a separate safety braking sys-
tem which takes hold automatically in
emergencies. * . ,
5. AUTOMATIC DRAFT ELIMINATOR
—now added to Hudson’s exclusive Year-
’Round Ventilation System to automatically
equalize air pressure inside and outside the
car—eliminating floor drafts.
We invite you to inspect and compare two cars
that incorporate new features that you have
never before found in any car at any price.
PLUS
Bodies all of Steel-
even the roof
L '
Bodies —armoured like the Knights of
Old—ALL of steel, even the roof.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Distributors for N.S.Wi:
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
Distributors for Victoria?
NEAL’S MOTOR PTY.
LTD.
140/4 Exhibition Street
Melbourne
Distributors for Queensland:
Mclntosh motors
PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Distributors for South Aus=
tralia and Broken Hill:
MOTORS LIMITED
Cnr. Flinders St. and Gawler
Place, Adelaide
Distributors for West
Australia:
MORTLOCK BROS,
LTD.
914 Hay Street, Perth
Distributors for Tasmania t
H. C. HEATHORN &
CO. LTD.
53/63 Bathurst Street, Hobart
and at
Brisbane Street, Launceston
The Bulletin
The Sodeman Horror
Vol. 57.—N0. 2924.
Wednesday, February 26, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WANTED FIRST EDITIONS BY
HENRY LAWSON
Children of the Bush, Methuen, 1902; Children
of the Bush, Angus and Robertson, 1902; A
Coronation Ode (pp. 10), Sydney, N. D. Coffill
and Co.'; The Elder Son, Edinburgh, 1903;
For Australia, and Other Poems, Melbourne,
1913; The Old Red Gum, Locksley, 1909.
Write F. H. JACKSON, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application t'o*
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
ims
liiirfjjg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HERE AJiD MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
y°ur Muscular Movement System 0/ Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name,
My Address
S.B. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any. prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second, competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which wili not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
FILM
LAND
In Hollywood
Cemetery (Gol-
lancz; Angus
and Robertson;
7s. 6d.) Liam
O'Flaherty makes
such a job of mystifying the reader in
order to preserve the secret of a surprise
development towards the novel’s end that
only a very heartless person would give
that secret away. It is quite a good
secret; even seasoned mystery addicts
might be marvellously surprised by it.
The suspense method employed is no
so admirable. It is to have two charac
ters go into a whispering session every
now and then. “I have a plan,” says
one, and bends over and whispers in
the other's ear. The other smiles, be-
comes excited, waves his arms, spits side-
ways and bello\vs “Jees!” or some othei
formidable exclamation ; and the reader
curiosity aflame, can’t read the yarn
quick enough to find out what it was
that was so important that it had to be
kept from him, without benefit of censor.
On a conservative recollection, Mr.
O’Flaherty employs this callow, if not
shabby, .little trick not less than half a
dozen times. A more general demerit
is that the novel leaves the impression
that nobody could be more surprised at
the way the story develops than the
author himself might have been. It
gives the impression that he began it
with the fixed purpose of writing a sav-
age exposure of Hollywooden vulgarity,
but with nothing else fixed. Since he
prefers the fictional method of making
this exposure—really the handiest method
to an author, since any charge of exag-
geration can easily be answered by
reference to the privileges allowed by the
fiction-writing license—he has to have
characters and he has to get them to
Hollywood. He knows Ireland very well,
and therefore that is a handy starting
place. Also, beginning with them there
and following them across the Atlantic
and on to Hollywood provide oppor-
tunity for constructing these characters
and making the reader familiar with
them. The effect, however, is of an other-
wise purposeless meandering; an in-
ability to come to grips with the real
business. This is increased by the wholly
false emphasis it necessitates Mr. O’Flah-
erty’s putting on his heroine, who, after
being introduced with a flourish, and
after displaying in Ireland, and even
more on the ship, singular beauty, a
violent temper, lavish amorality and
other attributes of a modern major char-
acter of the female sex, shortly dis-
appears into a shady background, where
none of her carefully-projected charac-
teristics influences the story in the slight-
est degree.
The result is a rather bulbous sort of
novel as far as construction is concerned.
Mr. O’Flaherty’s real business is the
aforesaid exposure of Hollywooden vul-
garity, and all this first part of the novel
is merely a lightly entertaining approach.
It is this more than the actual incidents
themselves that gives the first part of the
book a flavor of overdone lewdness,
which is itself a form of vulgarity. As
prelude to the story of a wanton —which,
at the time, is what they seem to be —
the early incidents could be excellent.
As it is, they seem rather forced.
It might be said that these things serve
the purpose of revealing the character
not only of the heroine —whose charac-
ter, as it turns out, is of no matter in
the story —but of the men who stay on
the stage throughout. There is some
truth in that; but, like Mr. O’Flaherty’s
whispering sessions, most of it is mis-
leading, since the men do not afterwards
act consistently according to the character
there revealed.
In spite of these pretty glaring defects,
even this early part of the novel is
amusing enough; and from the day
America is reached to the end Mr
O’Flaherty gets down to the job in hand
and makes a brilliant addition to hi
savage criticisms of those manifestation
of alleged civilised behavior which mos
thoroughly disgust him. There is alway
that possibility in fiction, especially
abusively satirical fiction, that invention
and exaggeration might be paraded as
actuality, this being permissible for the
sake of effect. But there could be no
purpose in such an exposure of incom
parable vulgarity as Mr. O’Flaherty here
makes if it were not true almost to a
detail. 1 have never been to Hollywood
but I respect Mr. O’Flaherty’s mine
sufficiently not to suspect him of any
such, futility. That being so, his ex-
posure of Hollywooden vulgarity is
accepted as being as true as the brilliant
writing and general presentation of it
make it convincing. Without giving the
show away, it can be said that the story
has to do with a shrewd vulgarian screen
magnate’s scheme for making screen his-
tory by picking up an unknown girl in
an obscure Irish village, taking her,
veiled, to Hollywood, and forcing the
world to accept her not only as a queen
of screen stars, but as “something more
than a screen star, as a goddess of love,
with a message for mankind, something
divine” —no less, in fact, than an adap-
tation of the Vestal Virgins conception,
to be personified by Angela Devlin (for-
merly Biddy Murphy). On its own, it is
a racy, extremely ingenious story;
but the novel is raised into a rather
higher class of literary effort by the
ruthless exposure for which the narrative
is really only the brightly-conceived fic-
tional excuse. This exposure is the most
thorough and searching that I have read
of what is, by this description of it
alone, one of the most extraordinary ex-
pressions of ostentation and vulgarity in
the whole history of mankind. Trimal-
chio’s feasting in the Satyricon is almost
frugal compared with the Hollywooden
pattern:
....they all marched down to a mag-
nificent swimming-pool, around which
tables were laid for dinner. In the pool
itself there were two gondolas, of the kind
that are used in Venice, .except that these
ones were, driven electrically, and they
served the purpose of carrying food from
a large service table at one end of the pool
to the diners who were ranged round the
other sides. In the centre of the pool,
on a moored raft, there was a brilliant
Mexican orchestra, brought by. air that
afternoon from Agua Caliente. Groups
of gunmen stood around at points of van-
tage to protect the jewellery of the women
and the persons of the more important
magnates from kidnappers... .On a plat-
form that commanded a view of the
whole gathering there was a gang of
journalists and photographers, all armed
to the teeth with the weapons of their
craft.
That, with several score guests and
three buglers to summon them to dine,
just a private evening effort. Ordinary
public dining on these lines:
An artificial vine-tree of enormous pro-
portions (it was really made of camouflaged
ferro-concrete) formed the front of the
building, and among the clusters of arti-
ficial grapes that hung from its boughs
there were cardboard figures, representing
artificial waiters offering steins of artificial
beer. They passed through a doorway,
situated in the trunk of this artificial tree,
into a hall that was partly in darkness
and resembled a clearing in a wood from
which the light of day had been almost
shut out by the interlacing foliage over-
head. Artificial trees grew thickly about
this hall, not only vine-trees, but fig-trees,
oaks, firs and palms. Having groped their
way to a table under a palm-tree, they sat
down. A waiter approached them from
around the corner of an oak-tree. He
wore Bavarian costume, but he was un-
doubtedly a Jew with a dash of Negro
blood.
“Two steins of pilsener,” Mr. Green
said.
The waiter immediately began to sing.
He sang his way out of the room and
then he sang his way back again. Having
delivered the beer, he climbed a little way
into the oak-tree, where he perched on a
branch and continued to sing.
“What’s the idea?” said Carey. “Why
does he go on bawling like that?”
“He’s a singing waiter,” said Mr. Green.
“Can’t we persuade him to stop?” said
Carey.
“He’d get sore,” said Green. “This
place is famous for its singing’ waiters.”
Petronius, or whoever wrote the
Satyricon, saw nothing to better that,
and nothing to compare with the whole
conglomeration of vulgarity that is evi-
dently Hollywood. Places like Sydney
might think they have good works in
emulation of that great example, but in
the comparison Mr. O’Flaherty provides
their very worst efforts would strike an
objectionably chaste and restrained note
amidst the real Hollywooden luxuriance.
C. M.
In Vilification
of Books
There are far
too many books
in the world.
There are far too
many books read
and not enough
books written. This may sound para-
doxical, but most of the books that are
written are' written not for the sake of
the writing of them but for the sake of
the reading of them. That is to say,
they are written with the writer’s eye,
not inwards on himself, but outwards
on the reading of them. They are written
for the sake of the reader and not of the
writer. If more writers wrote selfishly,
as the saying is, for the sake of the
writer, they would write books that
would be better; fewer readers would
want to read them, and therefore there
would be fewer books read ; and this
would be better for everybody.
Consider the condition of mind of
the people who do a lot of reading and
very little writing. Professors of litera-
ture, for instance. There ate professors
who have read almost every book that
has ever been written. This results in an
acute state of mental indigestion. The
professor is perpetually saying “This is
a good book” and “That is a bad book.”
But what he really means is, “The ideas
in this book are ideas with which I am
familiar and which I approve of,” and
vice versa as regards the books he says
are bad books. But the reading of ideas
which have already been thought out a
million times before does not lead to
fresh thoughts. It only leads to a state
of spiritual exhaustion. Fresh thoughts
come only from fresh experiences, and
there is no fresh experience in the read-
ing of thoughts with which one is
already familiar. There is no more
pathetic or significant phenomenon than
the silence and the awkwardness of a
professor in company where people are
talking, not about books, but about their
own experiences.
Consider the plight of the people who
ravenously devour all the books that
pass through the circulating libraries.
Are they better informed than the people
who don’t read them? Obviously not.
To each book they read they react in
one way or another, and to be continu-
ally reacting is to wear oneself out in-
tellectually. The moralist who reacts to
everything he reads in a newspaper,
whether it is to girls drinking cocktails,
men smoking and drinking or the de-
creasing size of bathing costumes, does
not grow in moral stature but dwindles
and decays ; and the omnivorous reader
is in the same position.
The writer who writes for the sake of
the reader has no time to think for him-
self, and therefore produces little that is
significant. Lope da Vega is said to
have written 2100 plays, as well as an
unnumbered quantity of other matter,
but it is not as well remembered as a
single work by the unprolific Cervantes.
Dumas pere wrote so many works that,
to quote his own words, they were
doomed to last a hundred years because
it would take that long for the rats to
eat them. Nobody else now bothers
much about them. Shaw’s output has
been prodigious, but he is one of those
rare individuals who seem to be able to
think with a pen in their hands; and in
any case it is not yet' known how much
of him will survive Time’s verdict.
The significant writer is he who deals
with his own sensations. As each new
sensation is a fresh experience, his work
has the quality of newness. To express
new ideas requires a new language, so
to know what, for example, a writer like
D. H. Lawrence is saying one must learn
his language. This language is not to be
learnt from books, nor is it taught by
professors who are familiar only with
dead languages. It is only to be learnt
by listening intently to what Nature is
saying. And the reading of books is so
much time lost from this interesting
occupation.
C.B.
Frank
Williamson
Frank William-
son, who died on
February 6, has
place among
Australian poets,
though he wrote
little. His one volume. Purple and Gold,
contained only about thirty lyrics; most
of them, however, were of fine quality;
they included “The Magpie’s Song,”
which so many anthologists have put into
their books, “Dirge,” “Rapunzel” and
“She Comes as Comes a Summer Night.”
The singing gift was late in coming
to Williamson, and seemed to forsake
him in a few years. Hardly any poems
by him appeared after his little book
was published in 1912 ; one reason for
this was that the artist in him objected
to anything not up to the mark appear-
ing over his name.
He was always a lover of the open air.
A floating cloud was “a poppy that is
parting from a slender stem,” and blood-
red lories were arrows flitting by. The
clear morning sky he likened to a huge
violet; at evening it became “the frail
green flower of twilight.” He saw “the
glories of chameleon day,” and for him
the first stars of twilight came as newly-
blown primroses. He loved the song of
the wind, which he spoke of as a careless
freelance; the sough of pine-trees he
heard as a deep contralto, and the notes
of the thrush and magpie are in several
of his lyrics.
Purple and Gold was printed in Eng-
land, and Williamson had no oppor-
tunity of correcting the proofs. A result
was several misprints and one most
ridiculous mistake. Williamson had sub-
mitted a copy of the “Dirge” to A. T.
Strong, and Strong in returning it said
he thought that the line “Rainbows
wrought by Spring of leaves” could be
{Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
“The Senior Store” “While 1 Live I’
11 Grow
MEN WHO WANT THE UTMOST IN COMFORT AND SMARTNESS BUY AT
k
V.
*r
4
/ \>.
■m
/
/ ,
k
\
T
<’•: f - -1&
V
m
4
MtN'S WO KK
COATS
18/6
Men s Reliable Work Coats in selected
All-wool Tweeds. In comfortable sac
coat style, perfect fitting and made to
stsind hard service. Fully lined. Grey or
Navy. All sizes. At Anthony Horderns’,
each, 18/6.
# Men’s Clothing —
Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations
in N.S.W. and sea-
ports in the Com-
monwealth.
MEN'S RIDING
BREECHES
2|/-
P Men’s Riding Breeches, made
from durable .riding twists. Well
made, smart and comfortable in
style and correct in every detail.
Cross and hip pockets, belt
loops, self-strapped lace fronts.
At Anthony Horderns’, pair,
21/-, 25/-, '30/-.
JODHPURS
196
Anthony Horderns are special-
ists in this class of garment.
Made from the best riding twists
to give plenty of comfort and
hard service. Perfect ;in fit and
in the latest style. At Anthony
Horderns’, pr., 19/6, 25/-, 32/6.
n
SMITH'S
OILCOATS
666
The man who has to face all weathers
should secure a Smith’s Oilcoat. We
recommend them for years of satis-
factory service. Well-fitting styles,
48 to 58 inches in length.
style, 66/6. Riding style, 74/6.
MEN'S WHITE
DRILL. COATS
51
'll
Men’s White Drill Sac Coats,
inexpensively priced, yet embody-
ing all the qualities of smart fit,
neat finish and durable wear. In
good quality White English
Drills. All sizes. At Anthony
Horderns’, 5/11, 7/11, 10/6,
12/6.
Anthony Horderns’ is the store which
caters completely for the man on the land.
Years of experience have taught us the
exact qualities he requires in his working
apparel. It must incorporate the hardest
wearing materials, freedom in fit, and
reliable workmanship, besides being
moderate in price. Choose confidently
from this page of values.
HEAVY DUTY
TRAN SPORT
COATS
45'-
Every man who has to
ride out, regardless of the
weather, should possess a
Transport Coat. Made from
heavy Scotch canvas, speci-
ally treated and guaranteed
waterproof. Finished
leather collar and cuffs.
At Anthony Horderns’,
45/-.
MEN'S WORK
TROUSERS
&\\
Strength and durability are
built into these Men’s
Work Trousers. Specially
selected materials are used
that will stand plenty of
hard, rough work. Styles
are roomy and comfort-
able. 28- to 48-inch waist.
At Anthony Horderns’,
pair, 8/11, 10/6, 12/6,
13/6, 14/6, 15/6, 17/6,
21/-.
JOCKEY
RREECHES
25'-
Jockey Breeches in strong
wearing, heavy quality
Silk. Well cut and made
in a generously propor-
tioned style allowing plenty
of freedom of movement.
26- to 34-inch waists.
At Anthony Horderns’,
pair, 25/-.
OVERALLS
11 9
The Hordura Bib Over-
all is recognised as the
standard garment for hard
wear. It is made in our
own workrooms from the
best British Drills. Navy,
Price, pair, 11/9. Khaki,
Price, pair, 12/-.


1
I
■MB* •
/ # *54
§®lr ft .
' &'.' MM * \
/
m. r
Ui
M
,I ■;■,,• .;.
V
® I
*,_: ffl
w
I 1 a
i ■
isss
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture, together with
informative paragraphs concerning the subjects dealt
with.
The unusual portrayal by a Master Photographer
and the reproduction by Photo-Lithographic Printing
make Zoo People a book of great interest to young
and old and a welcome addition to your bookshelves.
We commend this book to you as a work that reflects,
in a striking manner, and one hitherto unattempted,
the beauty, strength and quiet philosophy of many
of the “Zoo People.” Only great patience and the
nerve and ability to obtain “close up” photographs
of these interesting “folk” made this possible.
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
PRICE I'6 (Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
; r?|
V
i
t-
It. .
§#:>«
-
bettered, and he suggested several varia-
tions. Strong’s note was accidentally in-
cluded in the MS. when it was sent to
London, and his suggested lines, together
with the author’s original line, appeared
as a final verse:
Rainbows made by Spring of leaves,
Rainbows touched by Spring to leaves,
Woven irises of leaves,
Made by Spring of rainbow leaves,
Consecrated rainbow leaves,
Vernal iridescent leaves.
What readers made of this queer jumble
it is hard to guess; some may have
thought it was an attempt at a new verse-
form ; Williamson’s comments were
probably more purple than gold.
Williamson, who had been a teacher,
was just 71 years of age. He began his
teaching career at Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, and later was at Newington Col-
lege, Sydney. In 1905 he returned to
Victoria and rejoined the staff of Wesley
College as English master. From 1910
to 1930 he was in the employ of the Vic-
torian Education Department, and taught
at several outback schools.
GERALD BYRNE.
Touring with
“Smiler”
Recent Red
Page mention of
“Smiler” Hales
recalls things. I
travelled with
him on his tour
of South Africa, South Australia, Vic-
toria and N.S.W., when he lectured on
the Russo-Japanese War. “Smiler,” his
father and his brothers were wood-
turners. Father and brother Fred were
brilliant craftsmen ; almost unbelievable
examples of their work are in the Adel-
aide Museum, all done on foot lathes
which “Smiler” helped to treadle. Steam-
power competition closed the Hales
turnery.
Travelling with Hales in South Africa
by Cape post cart, drawn by eight
mules, the half-caste driver requested all
passengers—“ Smiler,” self and a middle-
aged Boer—to descend a dangerous hill
on foot. The Boer promptly got down,
but Hales asked the darkie, “Are you
walking?” “No, baas,” was the reply,
“I drive down.” “Well,” said Hales,
“if you can ruddy well drive down, so
can I.” That suited me, too, and,
although the descent proved to be hair-
raising, it was safely negotiated. In
about 20 minutes the Boer caught up to
us, and was most sarcastic about the
“fool rooineks.”
On the flat country a gust of wind
carried away our Boer friend’s hat, just
as we were passing two nude Zulus,
who promptly chased the hat. The post
cart was not slowed down at all, and the
Zulu who retrieved the hat chased us for
about half a mile before he was able to
hand it to the owner. The Boer
accepted it with some muttered remark
in a language I did not understand, but
offered no reward. Hales told the Dutch-
man something about his pedigree in
one word, then tossed his well-filled
tobacco-pouch to the native runner.
That’s “Smiler.” He’d give away his
last bob to anyone who needed it. He
divided nearly £2OOO with his backer,
Kingswell, of the Cape Town “Owl”
weekly paper, as a result of six weeks’
lecturing, but lost most of his share to
a card-sharper on the trip to Australia.
The tour of Australia resulted in a disas-
trous flop, except in Adelaide, and the
extraordinary success experienced there
was due in large measure to the whole-
hearted support and publicity accorded
by Bonython, of the “Advertiser.”
“Smiler” Hales, by the way, must be
nearer than “Banjo” Paterson to the 73-
year mark.
F. de J.
Bush
Balladry
Competition
Writers of
humorous stories
and sketches hav-
ing had their
innings, The Bul-
letin offers the
sum of £25 to
encourage bards of the backblocks (and
anywhere else) to lyrical effort. We want
to read and print some ringing bush
ballads. There will be three prizes—£15,
£7 and £3 ; space rates will, of course,
be paid in addition for every entry found
worthy of publication.
The word “ballad” is not used in any
narrow or technical sense ; the verse may
be in whatever form and metre the com-
petitor’s taste and fancy suggest. The
only stipulation concerns the subject; it
must be about the bush or have a strong
flavor of bushland in it. Australia or
Maoriland should furnish plenty of
scope for the setting. The competition is
°Pf. n a to Entries, marked Bush
Balladry Competition, should reach The
Bulletin office not later than April 30,
but a little latitude will be allowed in
flhe case of writers in places like North
Westralia.
No hard-and-fast limit is set to the
length of these poetical compositions,
but any ballad or ode or lilt or lay that
runs to more than 80 lines will be handi-
capped on that account, though not dis-
qualified.
A STCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Memories of a K.C.’s Clerk Francis Pearson
Honvwonn rFivrFTFnv r; rvn i ,
Hollywood Cemetery Liam O Flaherty
The P r oblem of Japan Captain Malcolm D. Kennedy
new >,,• f • t
J* • ,• memoirs m , ake as engag-
j 8 T l Bas . e p e . ga variety well
d^ B .. recordof interesting cases
fh° n l 8 r' S 1 b i, ee f Th “
h . gl \ ts ’ court
( c ° nsci °us and otherwise), eccen-
tElcltles of eccentrics (not all lay), the
character of Judges revealed in their con-
duct on the Bench, the behavior of juries,
lhe legal life _ itself, with its curious
™ orallty but b ‘B b mtegnty-for instruc-
tlve and entertaining armchair idling,
me i noirs ’ well done, are decidedly
beat ‘, Tbose »n Memories of a
G T ran£ is Pearson (Samp-
ow ’ An B us and Robertson; 14s.
6d -)> are . extremely well done. The
!? aill l er bre ezy, familiar, conversa-
dona j ’ the mutenal is an excellent sift-
InB from the . more cunous and extra ‘
ordlnar y experiences and occurrences of
ma ny years m the title occupation in
London Mr. Pearson’s interesting cases
include Horatio Bottomley’s litigation
the Lloyd Geor 8 e poisoning case and the
trial of Edward Frederick Mylius, who
libelled King George in the grossest
fashion and got off with 12 months be-
cause that was the limit. This case Mr.
Pearson describes as not only the greatest
f rom the point of view of the tremen-
dous issues it threatened to involve, but
als ? fairest trial that he ever listened
to in any court. The Lloyd George case
he describes as a miscarriage of justice in-
fluenced by war hysteria. A fair example
of his anecdotal material and manner
c . an be i n dicated by a little of his descrip-
tion of Mr. “Tom” Scanlon, the first
Metropolitan Magistrate to be appointed
by 5 L f abo / Oorcmmret The “gffat fail-
mg of Mr. Scanlon, who was an autho-
rity on form (horse), was “to take a
eXte ,^ ded luncheon break » from
which he would often return very merry
and bright.” He was in this happy state
when a man, charged with loitering with
intent, explained that he’d been waiting
to collect from a street bookmaker.
“Ah,” said the Beak, now very much
a yake, “what was the race and the name
horse? ’’ , ,
The man hesitatingly gave a name.
Scanlon snorted. “That race was won
by Romance,” he said. “I know it was.
J? ad you ba£ ked it you would have got
bve to one. The horse you mention has
been S 1 the stud for “ “onths. Guess
nT fat , .
Other of Mr. Pearson s choice orna-
ments of the Bench include Mr. Justice
,
Day, who sat on the Parnell Commis-
sion and distinguished himself by not
uttering a single word from the begin-
5 1 " 8 °£ the inquiry to the end”; Lord
B ‘ rk u e . nh f. ad ’ . made the s P eech
of his life after drinking six pints of
Mumm,” and many others, with a bright,
snappy depiction of them all. He is a
capital story-teller a self-confessed
expert in the “bar-room” or “club”
yariety-with a racy humor, but behind
it a high esteem for the more solid quali-
ties of the legal profession and an acute
understanding of it. Lawyers, if they
ever read anything outside their own
astounding literature (one Australian
Judge has confessed to being a thriller
addict), should especially enjoy it, but
it can be recommended out of hand to
anyone at all who likes his reading bright,
breezy and entertaining.
tu„» ~.;n f f , .
w / d ’ Jr’ !° T r Lmm
£5 ** !r ?* JyW °° d Ci («»“-
P 8 .
More solid—though the very contrary
°f stolid—is Captain Malcolm D. Ken-
Vf dy S TPro^em °f Japan (Nisbet;
15s ‘ , a el ea rly-stated, logically-
argued, informative and constructive
exam mation of Japan’s Asian intentions
and B ene^ al P°licy, including, of
co^. rse ’ d *scussion of her relationship
/| b , B £ dall ?’ America and, especially,
S oviet Russia. A most important work
r 0^ e , tbe dearest and most clear-
headfd of Japan’s current
P
♦
Death Sentence: Alice Duer Miller
(Allan ; 7s. 6d.). An =xplorer-he spends
three strenuous years with an expedition
to Central Brazil immediately following
a heart attack j he > that sort of explorer
—stupidly foists his daughter m marriage
on to a man whom he knows for a vain,
boasting philanderer. Object: pelf. Then
he murders his son-in-law so that
his daughter may be happy with the man
she wanted all along. It takes 250-odd
pages for the old messer to straighten
things out. The plot is puerile the charf
0 « J a j- ,
acters impossible and the dialogue
wooden.
«•»__ at tth
Silas Crockett. Mary Ellen Chase
(Collins; 7s. 6d.). London “Evening
Standard” chose this as its “book of the
month. It is an extremely careful fic-
tion account of successive generations of
a Maine (U.S.A.) seafaring family from
1820 to 1932. Quietly but finely written,
it is doubtless a most faithful depiction
of its subject and period, both of which,
however, seem highly romanticised and
are singularly uneventful. There is a
certain curious unreality about it all.
even to its characters, who nevertheless
are visible enough.
Agents of the League: Colin Davy
(Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). David and Mariella
Sheridan, former spies now idling
towards marital infidelity, jump at a
chance to embrace adventure again and
save Europe from a war, threatening as
a result of several international “inci-
dents” which the League suspects have
been “rigged.” Their job is to unmask
the plotter. Armament firms are tested
and duly whitewashed ; and then clue-
threads are drawn together during thrill-
ing adventures in Austria and Italy. The
Mayfairese in which the social scenes in
England are described (“Oh, go to hell,
darling”) tends to monotony, but once
England is left behind the writing im-
proves all round. Action is brisk and
telling bright.
Australian Orchid Review (Is. 6d.).
Australian enthusiasts now have a jour-
nal of their own, admirably produced
with fine illustrations and interesting
general and practical articles and advipe.
It merits a hearing. There are plenty of
orchid addicts about, and anyone so
addicted is always a thorough case.
Typist's Treasury, or Secretary’s Book
of Words: Kate Stevens (Jordan and
Sons ; Robertson and Mullens ; 2s. 6d.).
A most interesting, instructive and
handy reference book for typists, proof-
readers and Inky Wayfarers. There are
226 pages of dictionary and appendixes;
hyphenated and non-hyphenated words
are a feature, a remarkably liberal glos-
sary of foreign phrases and menu terms
is included, as well as unusual or alterna-
tive plurals, difficult spellings, use of
capitals and abbreviations. There is an
appendix of proper names that should
clinch many a “Society” page argument.
Pronunciation of Dalziell is given as
dee-ell; Ruthven as rivn ; Beaconsfield,
beck- ons-field ; Bethune, beet-on ; Bledis-
loe, bleds- 100 ; Charteris, chart-e rs ; Cas-
silis, kas- sils ; Cecil, sis-i\ ; Forsyth, for-
sythe; Gallagher, gar/-la-her; Lindsay,
lin-ze ; Majoribanks, martsh- banks;
Maugham, mawn; Menzies, ming-e s;
Reuter, roy- ter; Wodehouse, wood-
house, and so on.
Czar: Maurice Bethel Jones (Chapman
and Hall; Bs. 6d. net). A rather conven-
tional historical-fiction representation of
the career of Peter the Great from the
close of the European tour till his death.
The narrative is good, with few digres-
sions from the main theme, and the char-
acterisation and atmosphere, though
rather hackneyed, are convincing enough.
A fault might be that the period is not
identified as peculiarly that of Peters
Russia; but for the proper names and
the historical framework it might be any
time in Russian life extending over cen-
turies.
World History—the Growth of West-
ern Civilisation : R. Flenby and W. N.
Weech (Dent; 12s. 6d. net). An extra-
ordinary amount of the factual details of
history is compressed into this handy
volume. The object is a record, not a
commentary. Events and important
people are dealt with concisely in headed
paragraphs (a ready aid to reference), and
hundreds of appropriate illustrations help
to enliven the text. For anyone wanting
a compact record of the bare facts,
clearly stated, it could not be bettered.


ARTIFICIAL DENTURES
or "plates” are one of the
triumphs of modern dentistry
HMJ
mmm
1 "'i
nH
■
lissli
???
Who IS SO WELL QUALIFIED?
to perfect a real dentifrice as the dental
surgeon himself? Particularly a lifetime
specialist in pyorrhea like Dr. R. J. Forhan,
the originator of
FORHAN’S.
False teeth often follow
pyorrhea, which comes
to four people out of
fve past the age of 40
m
i
m
m
i
p
u. y §r
•?m
Uj
rnSSmmmsim
w
tis Kat.:, ..<*>...
»«i.
S A GREAT
(all the same)
TO LOSE YOUR
NATURAL TEETH
W" A T
tragedy, what terrible words, when the
Dentist says: “ I'm sorry, but they must ALL
come out." The preparation, the dread, the period of
retirement . . . Social life a misery . . . Business almost
impossible . . . The Dentist does render marvellous help
with his workmanlike set of artificial teeth, but he would
rather use his skill earlier to prevent trouble, if you will
give him the chance to check up every six months.
Half the teeth lost are due
to Pyorrhea.
When people pass the age of 40, most of them will
find Pyorrhea entrenched in their systems. Four out of
five will get it sooner or later, and many will not know
it for five or ten years after it has begun to work down
from the gum line to the tooth sockets. Once established,
Pyorrhea cannot be cured by Porhan’s or any other
toothpaste ... So get ahead of the trouble instead. Start now to
protect and prevent.
Give your teeth and gums vigilant care twice daily. Use the
best dentifrice money can buy. When you investigate Forhan’s you
will find it is more than a toothpaste, more than you expect, perhaps,
in so simple a toilet preparation.
Use the dentifrice developed by
a dentist.
Forhan’s is the discovery of a dentist, R. J. Forhan, D.D.S.,
who for 26 years specialised in the treatment of Pyorrhea. It is
unique in that it contains the benefits of an ethical preparation which
dentists are using throughout the world in the treatment of this dread
disease.
Don’t wait for danger signals. Start with Forhan’s to-day.
Forhan’s
for the gums
Small size, 2/-; Extra-large size, 3/-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd., 131 Clarence Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE
IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
\pMmmm y c!
r o'?.- .■ • . .mi # Ef
| f „ a .
1 11 11
H
Slllll^
P JHK
jN - mg
*|
:
■
mm I ■
' ■ • •. -
■■l
► v.
ik
I \
w ■/& s*' »
I
r -
,V
I
*
»■' “**-*«-
<
.
w v - •
-•-•-• .....
S— ll
■
.
.:. m ■
-
: • .
-
...
J
:
'
-•■'■■•
HHS 9
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsfield,


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2924.
February 26, 1936.
COLLECTIVE INSECURITY.
“Jahn, I reckon you’d have a darned sight more peace if you nailed up that gate!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6.d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas '. 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE SODEMAN HORROR.
Sterilisation of the unfit—that is to say, the insane,
the imbecile and the feeble-minded under restraint or
surveillance, and the degenerate convicted of sex
offences —has not hitherto been a political issue in
Australia and Maoriland. It is certain to become one,
and the process will be accelerated by the dreadful
facts which came out during the trial of Arnold
Sodeman, “laborer, 35,” now under sentence of death
at Melbourne for murder most foul. And when the
Sodeman case is cited, opponents of sterilisation will
be hard put to it for arguments other than religious.
In November, 1930, a young girl, Mena Griffiths,
was done to death in the Melbourne suburb of
Ormond. Her body was found in an empty house.
She had been suffocated, “there was evidence that
she had been violated,” and the murderer had gagged
her and tied her hands and legs with strips of her
clothing. An arrest was made—of the wrong man.
Fortunately he was able to prove an alibi.
Two months later another young girl, Hazel
Wilson, was murdered in the same suburb in much
the same circumstances. Her corpse also had clothing
stuffed into the mouth, and the hands and feet were
tied, as those of Mena Griffiths had been. This
pointed to both crimes having been committed by the
same fiend, but he was not traced.
Public feeling had been deeply stirred, and it had
not died down by the middle of 1932, when a ruffian
named Bennett was convicted of a capital offence on
a baby girl. It transpired that Bennett had received
a life sentence 21 years before for a similar atrocity
in Perth, and had been let out in three years by a
sentimental Attorney-General who believed that crimi-
nals could be cured with kindness. He straightway
resumed his career of crime, and, in between pursuing
girl children, was sentenced to 15 years for robbery
under arms —he was, of course, out long before the
fifteenth year. For the Melbourne crime Bennett
was hanged, and although “the death penalty is no
deterrent” —at least, good people never tire of saying
so —it is a fact that the murder of Victorian girls by
strangulation, accompanied by the profanation of
their bodies and clothing, ceased for two years and
a half.
On January 1, 1935, it began again. The scene
this time was Inverloch, a watering-place near the
township of Leongatha, which is 78 miles from Mel-
bourne ; the victim was named Ethel Belshaw. She
also was throttled, her hands and feet were tied with
pieces of her clothing, and portions of her stockings
were crammed into her mouth. The girl had been bath-
ing ; she disappeared about half-past four in the
afternoon, and her body was found next morning in
the scrub near the beach. Arnold Sodeman, “laborer,
35,” who lived at Leongatha, was one of the witnesses
at the inquest. He said he had seen Ethel Belshaw
when she came out of the water; she had told him
she was cold and was going away to dress, and he
had not seen her again. In this case likewise the
wrong party was arrested —a mere lad. After a month
or so the authorities discovered that they had made
a mistake, and the charge was withdrawn, with pro-
fuse apologies, which did not compensate the youth
for the harrowing experience to which he had been
subjected.
On December 1, 1935, another murder of the
same appalling description took place, this time at
Leongatha. The victim was much younger than Mena
Griffiths, Hazel Wilson or Ethel Belshaw: she was
June Rushmer, aged six. Again the newspapers
reported that death had been caused by suffocation, and
that torn apparel had been forced into the child’s mouth
and used to bind her legs and tie her hands behind
her back. The body was found “in a little lane
behind a clump of bushes on the outskirts of the
town.” By good chance, Sodeman or someone like
him had been seen riding a bicycle with a child
perched on the crossbars. It was recalled that the
man had been examined by detectives before giving
evidence at the Ethel Belshaw inquest, and he was
interrogated again. He gave an account of his move-
ments which did not tally with other testimony which
had been taken, but tried to stick to his story. Even-
tually, however, he admitted his guilt—signed a con-
fession describing with sickening detail how he had
murdered, not only June Rushmer, but Ethel Belshaw,
Hazel Wilson and Mena Griffiths, and gave a revolt-
ing demonstration of how he had choked them all.
Before he was tried for the murder of June
Rushmer, Sodeman voluntarily took the detectives
over the country he had traversed with his victim
and to the house in which he had murdered Mena
Griffiths —he said he had lived in Ormond at the time.
At the trial evidence for the defence was given by
three doctors, all of whom expressed the opinion that
the accused was a mental case at the time of the
killing ; one added: “his ancestry is appalling.” And
appalling it is, for it was proved that his father and
grandfather had died lunatics and that his mother had
“suffered for many years from loss of memory.”
Counsel for the accused asked for an acquittal
on the ground of insanity. This archaic verdict was
delivered in the case of the ex-pugilist Moller, who
knifed his son in Westralia in 1974 and is still held—
somewhat precariously—in Fremantle prison; and
in that of Durrant, the S.A. farmhand who butchered
his employer, the latter’s wife and daughter—though,
placed in the dock again, in consequence of an
aroused public opinion, for murdering the daughter,
Durrant made the verdict ridiculous by pleading
guilty to manslaughter. Another example was that
of the Victorian wife-slayer O’Brien, who, released
from the asylum after three years, took another wife
(she had been a fellow-patient in Mont Park), and in
the fulness of time cut her throat, those of their three
children and his own.
The jury that tried Sodeman had other views.
It found him guilty. If the verdict stands (notice of
appeal has been lodged), though the law may not
take its course, no Government can be forced to
release Sodeman by legal process, nor may any
asylum doctor let him loose on his own responsibility.
Consideration of these frightful crimes brings the
conviction that “not guilty on the ground of insanity”
must be struck off the list of permissible verdicts in
murder cases (“guilty but insane” might be substi-
tuted, provided it is clearly laid down in the amended
law that it is equivalent to a conviction). Also that
medical science, now placed at the service of human
refuse, must (without stifling the claims of humanity)
be drawn upon to give the nation and the individual
—above all, the female child—a degree of protection
from mad killers and degenerates which our criminal
laws do not, and our police cannot, provide.
FOR INDEPENDENT BROADCASTING.
In exchange for granting the A-class stations rights
to broadcast from their columns, Australian dailies
are given by these “strictly non-advertising” stations
direct, open and unashamed advertising which no
other commercial enterprises in the country, except
proprietary racecourses and the like, can buy at any
price.
This travesty of the supposed non-advertising
policy of the A stations is countenanced for two
reasons: one, the curious but prevalent misconception
that newspapers are not commercial undertakings but
altruistic public institutions; two, the fact that the
A stations, as at present conducted, have no alter-
native but to be advertising agencies for newspaper
combines and companies.
To escape, to be independent, free to give a news
service unconditioned by any obligations to dailies,
the A stations would have to establish staffs com-
petent to compete as news-gatherers, including one
to provide an independent cable service. Such a cable
service is most urgently needed in the general public
interest, and the A stations would be an ideal medium
for providing it. The sort of alternative mentioned
at Canberra a few months ago would be worse than
what it was sought to supplant.
At Canberra Mr. Holloway asked Mr. Parkhill
whether he would discuss with Cabinet the necessity
of the Federal Government getting some control over
the reception and distribution of overseas news, in
the interest of the people of Australia. Mr. Holloway
was, of course, inspired by what the newspaper cable
service has degenerated into. Mr. Parkhill said he
would be very glad to do so. Australia would say:
Thank Heaven nothing has come of it! The com-
plaint against the newspaper cable service is that,
where Italy, Abyssinia and the League are concerned,
it has become the instrument of dishonest and danger-
ous propaganda. But it does provide a proportion
of reasonably honest general news, which nobody of
sense would expect from any Government service.
That would be propaganda first and always.
An independent A-class broadcast cable service
would be a different neddy. Under present arrange-
ments all the overseas news broadcast by the A
stations —bar the British Government propaganda of
the official wireless —is that appearing simultaneously
in daily newspapers. Thus people who read dailies
and then listen-in have to swallow exaggerations and
inventions twice a day, an insufferable dosage.
An independent service, dealing with foreign
affairs and all overseas news in a broadminded and
unbiased manner, would be an inestimably valuable
corrective to that. It is a great opportunity for making
the A stations indispensable in the public life. Some
day it will have to come. Australians are long-
suffering, but will not go on accepting indefinitely
this daily dosage of the palpably ridiculous, poison-
tipped stuff the cables have been injecting into them
for the past six months.
In the interest of public enlightenment—and
therefore sanity—and therefore safety—it is a
needed, an essential service. A Government which
presented it to the country, instead of blandly dis-
cussing what would be an even more blatant infringe-
ment of the liberty of the subject, would be making
an investment of the public’s money in the most
sensible and valuable way possible. The stations
providing such a service—instead of merely repeating
cables hours old in the papers already, and frequently
incorrect, absurd and biased as well—-would win
themselves a new and important listening public.
Nobody who took any part in public affairs could
afford not to listen to it; and the public would
welcome it.
The dailies might respond by denying their local
news to the A stations, though the privileged adver-
tising they get is considerable payment. That would
have to be overcome by the stations increasing the
small news staffs already employed. In this competi-
tion the broadcasting people would have the advan-
tage of being able to transmit their news immediately,
in addition to having it available for a comprehensive
daily news session that would be a spoken newspaper.
Already broadcasting has proved that it could be a
most formidable rival in supplying news. As a vendor
of sporting news it is incomparably the best of all
mediums. In this respect the public should watch with
interest impending attempts to restrict the broad-
casters’ fields of operations: the public’s interests will
be very much at stake.
For, though it does not seem to be generally
recognised, it is the people at large, and not the news-
papers, nor even the prevailing Government, who
own these A stations. If the people want this portion
of their general property to have real independence,
they will have, sooner or later, to insist on their stations
breaking with the newspapers altogether and facing
them with the healthy rivalry foreshadowed here.
ONE SUCCESSFUL MIGRANT.
Mr. Forgan Smith, Labor Premier of Queensland,
now in England at the expense of Queensland’s tax-
payers, has blandly informed the British press that
it is wrong to suppose that Australia is against
migration. What Britain would like to know is
whether Australia is actively interested in resuming
the flow of immigration which stopped five years ago.
There is a world of difference between Mr. Forgan
Smith’s vapid negation of an implied opposition and
even the semblance of welcome to migrants, at any rate
in Mr. Forgan Smith’s own adopted State of Queens-
land.
A little while ago Mr. Forgan Smith’s Minister
for Agriculture and Stock, who, with a charge extend-
ing from Coolangatta to Cape York and from Brisbane
to Birdsville, draws less for travelling expenses than
any other Queensland State Minister, announced that
migration could not hope to succeed, since all the
really good land in the State was already taken up.
Mr. Forgan Smith himself, and his presence within
vocal reach of British press representatives, is a testi-
monial to the immigration towards which he displays
such a coldly academic air. A Glasgow ship-painter,
caught up in the migration flood which was setting
to Australia in pre-war days, he returns as the finished
product, a Labor Premier —the official representative
and mouthpiece of hundreds of pioneer families who
had made the State what it is decades before Mr.
Forgan Smith even thought of emigrating ; the taxing
lord who takes toll from thousands of their thrifty
descendants. That Mr. Forgan Smith, standing where
he does, should regard in a negative sense the chances
of any immigrant to make good in Australia sounds
like real Scottish humor. But, to thinking Australians,
the subject is not one for humor.
As a nation we seem, under the dead hand of
such entirely mechanical national “leaders” as Mr.
Lyons, to have accepted a defeatist outlook on the
subject of bringing in more British people to a British
country which is in dire need of more men to till
its soil and operate its industries, and of more mothers
to fill its emptying cradles. In the 40 years before
1931 Australia’s population more than doubled itself.
Excluding war years, that was the peak period
of immigration ; the peak period, too, of vigorous
developmental enterprise, of large capital investment,
of low unemployment rates, of steady improvement
of living standards. The census figures of 1933 show
with relentless certainty that, without a renewed flood
of immigration, our population of active working
ages will by 1973 have increased by only 132,000, but
our old-age-pensions bill will have doubled ; there will
be 270,000 fewer children under 15 than there were
in 1933. In 1933 the ratio of persons of active work-
ing age (20 to 50) to persons over 65 was seven to one.
By 1973 the ratio will be less than four to one.
The outer world gathers its impressions of us
mainly from the mouths of our politicians, and on
the subject of migration these gentlemen range from
mere apathy to red-hot opposition. Nothing con-
structive, nothing in the nature of honest endeavor
to pull down or undermine whatever obstacles lie in
the way of resumption of immigration is apparent in
their utterances. It is small wonder that a widespread
idea has grown up in Britain that Australia is hostile
to migrants and migration. The careers of Mr. W.
M. Hughes and Mr. Forgan Smith, among many
others, afford convincing proof to the contrary; but
the idea is there, and nothing definite is being done
to remove it.
If our politicians do not know what specific diffi-
culties have to be overcome, then they are fools and
unfit to lead. If they know, but are afraid to proclaim
the means of overcoming those difficulties in the face
of any outcry from political dogs-in-the-manger, then
they are cravens, unfit for the honor of representing
a virile nation.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Everybody’s Doing It
Dr. Page has set out for London to attend a very
nebulous sugar conference, at which Premier Forgan
Smith is also to be present if it is ever held. Just
before the Minister of Commerce left Melbourne it
was announced that the conference was likely to be
postponed again ; but the Minister and the three
officials going with him did not stop packing. They
departed on the due date, sugar conference or no
sugar conference.
The Prime Minister, asked whether Dr. Page
would leave Australia in view of the uncertainty about
the conference, said he was sure Dr. Page would do
good work abroad in negotiating for the marketing
of Australian meat and other products. A day or so
after he said this it came out that an agreement had
been reached for the supply of beef to Britain for the
next six months. Lamb exports had already been
arranged for until the end of 1936. So Dr. Page will
have to justify his trip by making an agreement about
butter.
Attorney-General Menzies is following Dr. Page
4o appear for the Commonwealth in the Privy Council
appeal in the dried-fruits case, which involves the
validity of all compulsory marketing legislation. If
he could not have represented Australia at the sugar
conference, supposing it is held, Mr. Forgan Smith
might have been commissioned or N. S. Wales Attor-
pey-General Manning—he also is to figure in the
dried-fruits case, and arrived in London months
before there was any discoverable work for him to
do. And there is always Mr. Bruce, whose appoint-
ment as chairman of the League Council does not
take up all his time. Failing Mr. Bruce, there is a
senior Customs official, who left for England soon
after Christmas.
By the time Dr. Page and Mr. Menzies have
returned and settled down, the Prime Minister will
begin to think of packing up for the coronation and
the Imperial Conference. It is thought at Canberra
that Treasurer Casey is certain to accompany him,
and that Attorney-General Menzies will have to go
once more. And perhaps by that time it will have
been decided to transfer Mr. Parkhill to another
department. In that case it will be necessary for
him to confer with the heads of the Admiralty and
the War Office, following the precedent established
when he “completed his education” as Postmaster-
General on an overseas jaunt—and ceased to be
P.M.G. when he returned.
—♦
The Shabbiest of Suicides.
Everyone of ordinary human feelings must have
sympathy for the seamen as dupes of the shabbiest
misleadership ever wished on decent unionism in
Australia. They were the victims of a callous little
Soviet.
The strike, foredoomed from the first, ended
last week as everyone of any sense knew it some day
must. On Wednesday the seamen met in Sydney
and made such a row walloping their joss that a
motion hooraying for a return to work and express-
ing confidence in the people who started the wretched
strike could not be heard. Furniture was thrown
about, and the meeting dissolved in uproar. On
Thursday the inevitable decision to cry the strike
off was made, and the men —many of whom had taken
the precaution to get licenses on the quiet—rushed
off to nab such jobs as might be available.
Their worst misfortune was that a majority of
the volunteers who had manned the ships under the
licensing system had proved efficient. The owners
declare that 75 per cent, will be retained.
That means that the whole fruits of the strike
were these: Damage was done to trade and industry ;
inconvenience was caused to travellers; loss was
inflicted on shipowners; a heavier proportionate loss
was suffered by the seamen ; some men who did not
have jobs when the strike started have succeeded those
who did have jobs ; instead of working under indus-
trial arbitration the seamen have to take out licenses ;
and, finally, they have lost their union.
The unfortunates in all this vicious muddle are
the men who cannot get their jobs back. They
are the ones who now pay the real price in this
crude gamble. The ones who should pay it —the
originators of the strike, the callous little sovieteers
who induced these unfortunates to strike, who caused
what inconvenience was done to people and what
damage was done to industry—these, of course, get
off scot-free. One, self-described as “a fairly active
Communist,” comes out with a billet.
+
Dry-rot in Downing-street.
A “secret” Foreign Office paper prepared by some
of the permanent officials who serve Britain so well
has turned up in Italy and been published in the
“Giornale d’ltalia.” Presented to the Government in
June, 1935, it was to the general effect that Britain had
"no vital interests in Abyssinia or adjoining countries”
which would be threatened by an Italian occupation
of Abyssinia ; and that the' committee believed to be
imminent and inevitable.
The report reflects the knowledge and sound
sense of its authors, and it is a thousand pities that
the politicians pigeonholed it. The incidents con-
nected with its publication are creditable neither to the
Government that lost it nor the Government that
presumably bought it from a traitor or a spy; but
it is now clear that, in the events leading up to the
imposition of sanctions, Baldwin and co. were actu-
ated by a muddled and meddling altruism.
This does not alter the fact that they have dragged
the Empire into a nasty mess, of which the sacrifice
of trade and the expenditure on putting the Royal
Navy (including two Australian cruisers) and Air
Force on what is practically a war footing are the
least serious features, though the cost has been great.
It is felt in Britain that the foreign policy of Mr.
Anthony Eden is increasingly involving the Empire
in dangerous complications, and that Mr. Baldwin,
who approved of the Hoare-Laval peace proposals
and sacrificed his colleague when his own position
was in danger, is not the man for the situation.
This feeling found fit expression in the House
of Lords last week. Lord Lloyd, who was High Com-
missioner for Egypt and the Sudan ; Lord Mottistone,
who, as Colonel Seely, was Secretary for War (1912-
1914), and Lord Mansfield spoke out against the crude
boycott of an old ally. Lord Ponsonby objected to
it on pacifist grounds. Lord Buxton demanded an
international agreement for the “ending of slavery
and the slave trade in Abyssinia.” And Lord Philli-
more, who was a prisoner of war, while deploring that
the policy of the Government had baited the Italian
people into “increasing hostility towards Britain,”
described the White Paper on mutual aid —another of
Mr. Anthony Eden’s achievements—as “a criminal
step.”
We are now pledged to aid Turkey and Yugo-
slavia in the event of any incident attributable to sanc-
tions. These two nations have strained at the leash for
years to recover what was taken from them. Would
it take much to begin a war between Yugoslavia and
Italy, or between Italy and Turkey?
The Italians were, of course, on our side during the
war, and they came in at a very bad time, when the
Russians —with whose faithless and obviously scared
Government Mr. Anthony Eden is negotiating—were
getting beaten. The Turks and nearly two-thirds of
the Yugoslavs were on the other side. Said Lord
Philiimore in conclusion (and the House cheered
him):
I appeal to the Government to tell the nation that
it has no intention of allowing the country to be led
into war, except on behalf of the immediate and direct
interests of the British Empire.
The reply was that the Government had “no
intention of taking isolated action.” That has been
said before, and for the people of the Dominions,
though Mr. Lyons may still cherish his touching faith
in the infallibility of British politicians, it is not
now enough.
*
Was It Preventable?
Australia has had another air disaster. A six-
passenger Gannet monoplane, designed and built in
Australia, was sent from Sydney by W.A.S.P. Airlines
to pick up passengers from another ’plane which,
developing engine trouble, had landed at Young
(N.S.W.). Pilot (John Small) and four passengers left
Young for Sydney at 6.45 p.m. The ’plane struck rough
weather and bad flying conditions. In pitch darkness
about 8 p.m. it was heard flying low near the Cordeaux
Dam, only a few minutes away from Mascot aero-
drome. There was a crash on a densely-timbered
hillside. Fire completed what the fall had begun ;
the five men aboard lost their lives.
The exact cause of the disaster will never be
known, but things can be learned from the circum-
stances as reported. There is need for blind-flying
equipment in every passenger ’plane; for restriction
of night-flying machines to definite “leads” governed
by radio beams; for weather reports to pilots; for tele-
phone communication between ’plane and ground, and
for an emergency landing-ground system.
The U.S.A. has all these things. There machines
carrying a certain number of passengers must have
two pilots to guard against the consequences of
sudden illness or accident. There, too, the thickest
fog is no bar to a passenger pilot finding his way to
safety when over land. It would be impossible for an
American in charge of a passenger machine of the
Gannet’s capacity to have to “come down” to ascer-
tain his position, “believing that he had passed over
the rough country,” within only a few miles of his
nation’s No. 1 airport and almost in the suburbs of
his continent’s biggest city. Neither, in any other
country with as much passenger air traffic as N. S.
Wales, would he need to “fly round to find a landing-
ground,” no matter what the conditions.
The Civil Aviation Department is sending several
young men abroad to study overseas conditions.
Instead, they should be kept at home to organise
facilities which pioneer air companies cannot afford
and cannot be expected to provide. A million or two
diverted from sand-shifting and footpath-chipping
schemes and the like and wisely spent would make
all Australian air routes safe.
One State Government is spending £15,000,000
on sewerage works for suburbs. On “Civil Aviation,
buildings, works and sites,” £12,993 was spent in 1933-
34, and £33,427 in 1934-35 —this for the whole Com-
monwealth.
♦
The Spendthrifts.
A deputation of businessmen is to see the Prime
Minister about a reduction of Commonwealth taxa-
tion. In anticipation of their visit, his Government
has been giving away tax-money at a great rate —to
municipalities now, as well as States —but this won’t
prevent the deputation from putting up an unanswer-
able case.
The Government has certainly taken off bits of
the huge “emergency” taxes, but tax-revenue has
increased steadily, these remissions notwithstanding,
as the following table shows:
Direct Taxation. Indirect. Total.
1930- £18,652,000 £31,768,000 £50,420,000
1931- 17,128,000 36,831,000 53,959,000
1932- 13,784,000 42,362,000 56,146,000
1933- 12,204,000 44.205,000 56,409,000
1934- 11,533,000 47,222,000 58,755,000
Totals for five years £73,301,000 £202,388,000 £275,689,000
Two so-called “temporary” imposts, sales tax
and primage, yielded £12,813,000 last year. Sales
tax has become as important a source of Common-
wealth income as income tax, which itself was imposed
during the war as a “temporary” impost. The busi-
ness community can rest assured that, so long as it
and its customers are prepared to pay this £9,000,000
or more a year, sales tax will be as permanent as
income tax. The same applies to primage. The his-
tory of these two “temporary” imposts is interesting:
Sales Tax. Primage.
1930- £3,463,000 £1,813,000
1931- 8,425,000 3,657,000
1932- 9,369,000 4,512,000
1933- 8,696,000 4,080,000
1934- 8,554,000 4,259,000
Since it reached its peak in 1932-33 sales tax has been
reduced 1 p.c. to 5 p.c., and various exemptions have
. been granted. These have had no appreciable effect
upon receipts, because as conditions improve more
business is done, and the greater the turnover the
greater the amount collected.
The Government is pledged under the Ottawa
Agreement to remove primage from British goods as
soon as the financial position permits. Some reduc-
tion has been made, but, as the figures show, there
has been no appreciable sacrifice of revenue. To-
day, with the national income still greatly reduced,
Canberra is spending almost as much as during the
boom years.
“Indeed, indeed, repentance oft before I swore;
but was 1 sober when I swore?” Politicians promise
amendment, and then, intoxicated with the flow of
millions, they turn to the spending again.
♦-
Food and National Health.
An international Commission on Nutrition, com-
posed of ten of the world’s leading experts, has pre-
sented to the League of Nations a report which should
have a very definite effect in improving individual
health and physique among civilised peoples. It speci-
fies the “protective” classes of foods as the essentially
important ones. Protective, because they help the
body to protect itself against degenerative changes,
insidious in their development but wholly disastrous
in their mass result on a national population.
Wrong foods have done more real harm to civil-
ised mankind thamhave drink, drugs, venereal diseases
and occupational risks combined. And they are still
doing it.
The chief “protective” foods are meat, eggs, fish,
cheese, green, leafy vegetables, potatoes and milk.
Particularly milk, which has become so unnecessarily
dear in Australian cities—the commission approves
up to two pints daily of fresh milk for pregnant and
nursing mothers. Skimmed and separated milk, much
of which is wasted under “control” systems, are also
valuable foods, as they still contain the protein and
mineral contents of whole milk, as well as the B and
C vitamins.
Put roughly, and subject to requisite adjustments
for nature of work, age, sex and weight, a general
average protective adult diet will contain daily a
quarter-pound of fresh meat (liver, kidney, sweetbread
or fish counts as meat), an egg, an ounce of cheese,
three ounces of fresh cabbage or other leafy vege-
tables, a quarter-pound or so of potatoes, three good
pieces of fresh raw fruit, a slice or two of wholemeal
bread, a seasoning of salt and a pint of milk, with
water at discretion for thirst-quenching. This provides
all that is really required for an average adult under
average conditions. Within reasonable limits the
amounts may be increased, or one protective item may
be substituted for another, and a reasonable amount
of the calorie class added, preferably as lightly-milled
cereals or wholemeal bread. Sugar is an energy food,
pure and simple, devoid of minerals and vitamins
alike.
Food questions on the national scale have passed
far beyond the crank or empiric stage. The commis-
sion’s findings will have a widespread effect on various
food-producing industries, and Australian interests
concerned in this direction will do well to study them.
And Governments will do well to reconsider their
passion for making food artificially dear.
♦
An Uneven Commonwealth.
Latham Withall, secretary of the N. S. Wales
Chamber of Manufactures, has bidden Australia to
consider the fact that its population is almost station-
ary. British immigration there is none. Expanding
industry is taking up so much slack as well as absorb-
ing so much new labor that, given good seasons and
normal expansion, there will be a labor shortage in
a very few years, with no annual flow of migrants
to fill it —313,000 Britons settled here between 1921
and 1930.
Meanwhile, the death-rate is about as low as
can be expected until a few more major diseases
are conquered—it was 9.32 per 1000 for 1934, against
9.52 for 1929. The birth-rate is still sliding. In the
five years 1929-34 births fell from 129,480 to 109,475
—from 20.25 per 1000 to 16.39.
At the 1926 meeting of the Empire Parliamentary
Association, Mr. Baldwin said that the time might
come when the centre of Empire would shift to
Australasia away from the “complications of Europe.”
But British statesmen are too busy with the compli-
cations of Europe at present to tackle the problem
of migration. In any case, it may not seem to them
so urgent now as it did a year or two ago, what
with huge defence programmes which will give
work to hundreds of thousands and equally large
slum-clearance schemes —a quarter of a million
houses are being built in England this year.
To a watcher from another world, a common-
wealth of nations such as the British must seem a
mad sort of affair. Its mother country holds 45,000,000
inhabitants, concentrated in a small island under the
guns of teeming Continental peoples, and in a climate
which, for five months in the year, is far from perfect.
To feed them it carries millions of tons of goods over
thousands of miles of sea. Another part of the British
commonwealth, Australia, 90 times as large, has
6,750,000 people.
Redistribution of population is a problem for
which some of the great minds now concerned with
Ethiopia and Danzig and with Sydney sewerage
schemes might at least spare a stray thought.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
Greg”: I was standing in the corridor
of the Newcastle train awaiting my station
as the guard approached to examine
tickets. In the compartment I faced sat
eight people. An affable young man next
the door suggested that all tickets should
be handed to him so that he might give
the lot in a batch to the guard. That
official, after punching them, announced
that the number was one short. All eyes
turned to the affable young man, who
remarked with an injured air, “There’s
no doubt about my ticket. It had a piece
torn off the top corner.” A ticket so
defaced was promptly forthcoming, and
repossessed by the alleged owner. The
discussion grew acrimonious without be-
coming directly accusative, but as I left
the train the young man, with every
appearance of resentment at being mis-
understood, collected his belongings and
sought another compartment. I am still
wondering how the other seven settled
the matter of the missing ticket.
❖ * :J«
“Fiona”: My war souvenir came to
me at second hand—a khaki roulette
“board,” bestowed by a relative who
was about to turn his mind to higher
things. Complete with watch, it bright-
ened many a campaign, and after long
and honorable service was the chief
source of entertainment on a home-com-
ing troopship. It still fills in many an
evening for a family gathering, and has
had the honor of having a sermon
preached against its goings-on by a local
parson.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The fate of some of the miss-
ing men of the A.I.F. is certainly obscure
(B. 5/2/’36); even the tabulation of
them by the Graves Commission people
depended on identity discs, and anything
could be done with those. I was having
a drink in a cafe in Marseilles one even-
ing when a chap in greasy overalls
dropped down alongside me. “ ’Ave one
with me, sarge,” he invited, and ordered
drinks in good French. There was no
mistaking his accent; both his Austra-
lian and his French were good. “And
who might you be?” I asked, cautiously
closing my hand over the wallet in my
pocket. “Just a local mechanic,” he
replied casually. “Then what were you?”
1 asked. “Killed in action,” he replied,
swallowed his drink and disappeared
into the ,night.
* H* * *
“C.C.D.”: The other day I saw the
last of Cobb and Co.’s coaches —anyhow
it was described as such—in the Mel-
bourne Aquarium. But I know of one
still in use ; I saw it a few years ago on
the track between Mount Hopeless and
Innamincka. This track follows the
Strzelecki from “The Cobbler” to the
Cooper, and if there is a worse road In
Australia I have yet to see it. The coach
was drawn by six camels, and used to
carry the mail.
* # * *
“Ichabod Crane”: “T.P.’s” commenda-
tion of Inspector Kentish in Tiburon (B.
5/2/’36) for showing the anonymous
letter to Jessica Daunt will puzzle many
N.S.W. school-teachers. In the Mothah
State there is an unwritten but none the
less stringent departmental rule that all
anonymous letters relating to members of
the service shall be immediately destroyed
“Come on in and ask dad now."
"But, darling, he wouldn't be up at this hour!"
Oh, yes, he will. He's been expecting you for Weeks."
without any record being made of their
contents and without reference to the
cowardly writer’s victim. This salutary
rule has probably saved many teachers
from mental anguish, and at the same
time caused no little bewilderment to
the curs who have waited expectantly for
inquiries that haven’t come off. A copy
of any signed complaint against a teacher
is immediately sent to the teacher in
question—often to the discomfiture of
the complainant.
* * * *
“R.8.C.”: Half of a Treasury note
may be legal tender (B. 12/2/’36), but
stamps attached to postal-notes aren’t
recognised as currency. The other day I
received some stuck on so tightly that
it was impossible to remove them with-
out damaging both the stamps and the
note. Took them to the post office, where
the official casually tore them off and
said that they didn’t' take the stamps.
They were quite useless.
* * * *
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Among the latest
crop of books inspired by coming wars,
I came across a reference to a bogey of
the Great War, turpinite. This was sup-
posed to have been used as a filler for
shells which killed by concussion on im-
pact for a radius of 400 yards, as
demonstrated to the French War Minis-
try in 1914. The staff was extremely im-
pressed by its efficiency, and tried a
few rounds on Fritz, with highly satis-
factory results for everyone else. Then
the red-tabs shook their heads sadly and
pigeonholed the formula: “It was so ter-
rible in its effects that the French Gov-
ernment dared not use it against the
Germans.” I’ve yet to find anything so
devastating that a Frenchman wouldn’t'
throw it at a German’s head.
1 * * * *
“Tripod”: Ingenious hawkers (B.
29/1 /’36)? I know a Brisbane man, an
unemployed photographer, who did the
rounds of the newly-settled residential
suburbs just before Christmas and un-
obtrusively took photographs of all the
new houses. A day or so later he called
at each house with calendars for 1936 on
which were mounted nicely-done photos,
of the owner’s home ; price Is. Sales
were brisk.
* * * *
“Alea”: Probably few citizens, how-
ever scrupulous, include lottery winnings
—unless such have been substantial and
well-advertised enough to attract atten-
tion—in their taxable incomes. However,
there are exceptions ; two business part-
ners in Sydney who were fined £2OO
apiece the other day for having “wilfully
attempted to avoid taxation by under-
statement of income” were shown as
having included the sum of “£2so—lot-
tery winnings” in one of their yearly
returns. And the amazing thing about
it was that they hadn’t won the sum
specified, or more than a few pounds at
most, from the Government’s gambling
enterprise ; according to the prosecution
they had admitted having thrown in the
£250- “with the idea of making up some
of the previously-undisclosed income”—a
small trifle of conscience money, in fact,
disguised by a method designed to divert
attention from its real source. Obviously
the Government lottery serves a lot of
purposes besides helping hospitals.
* * * *
“Slinga”: As one who knew Kipling
as well as his writings, I would suggest to
“Bala Hissar” (B. 12/2/ ’36) that he some-
times drew a composite portrait. “Strick-
land,” of the Intelligence, seems to be
one —a mixture of Beattie and War-
burton. There is another composite por-
trait in “McAndrew,” and yet another in
“Anthony Gloster.” I had this from
Kipling himself when I spent a day with
him and his family at Burwash in 1908.
Being an engineer, I asked him how it
came about that his technical terms were
always so correct (we had been talking
of “Slam-bang too much —they knock a
wee, the crosshead jibs are loose”). He
said “By keeping my ears open and my
mouth shut.” After that, I was not game
to ask him how he came to the know-
ledge that made “Bread Upon the
Waters” such an epic of an engine-room
smash and of the consequent sweating,
cursing, chief-driven hell of repair car-
ried out successfully under hopeless con-
ditions by an underfed, overworked gang.
Many have written of sail —Conrad,
Masefield, Clark Russell—but give me
Kipling when we go down the iron
ladders into the engine-room with “the
black gang.”
* >l= * *
“John Compton”: I think research
will show that Ernest Augustus, Duke of
Cumberland, was Queen Victoria’s heir
presumptive until she started a family of
her own (B. 19/2/’36). This duke was
her uncle, and, owing to the Salic law
precluding Victoria from the throne of
Hanover, he succeeded to that. His son,
King George V. of Hanover, was ushered
out of his kingdom when Prussia annexed
it in 1866. An ultimate descendant, an-
other Ernest Augustus, was Duke of
Cumberland until 1917, when by Act of
Parliament he was deprived of his status
in the British peerage because of his
pro-German sympathies. His son, also
Ernest Augustus, married the then
Kaiser’s only daughter.
* * * *
“P. Dant”: This discussion about
plurals fB. 19/2/’36) recalls that the
newly-coined word “omnibus” puzzled
Londoners greatly a century ago, and
“omnibi,” when used in the House of
Commons, created an outburst of mirth.
Vehicles of this type first appeared in
1829, and were originally known as
“Shillibeers,” after the name of the pro-
moter. George Shi Hi beer’s conveyances
carried 22 passengers at Is. per head
from the Marylebone-road to the Bank,
and he thoughtfully provided newspapers
and magazines for his passengers because
the journey was slow. Later George (who
subsequently took to hearses) was out-
moded by a certain Mr. Cloud, who ran
omnibuses between the Haymarket and
Chelsea. Cloud placed a small, well-
chosen library in each bus. There seems
to be the germ of an idea here for our
Clapps and Hartigans.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The British War Office
is returning to its old method of owning
its own troopers for shifting the annual
drafts of military overseas and
home again. Up to the Boer
War its venerable vessels were
mostly quite unfitted for the job.
They were officered and manned
from the Royal Navy, and a
couple of years on the old
Himalaya—her first job was tak-
ing troops to the Indian Mutiny,
and she was still going strong
in the early ’nineties —the Croco-
dile and others was reckoned
equivalent to 10 years’ sea ser-
vice by those who had to be
the mugs. Going the rounds
after lights out was a hero’s job,
especially through the women’s
quarters. Many of the ladies
of those days were as rough as
bags, and knew well there was
no chance of identification in the dark
’tween decks, the result being a trying ex-
perience, especially if the inspecting
officer was young and callow. “Rounds”
hunted in couples, a junior naval and a
military officer, but one got it just as
hot as the other.
*** * *
“Bimbashi”: Cairo police tried a neat
method of identifyng trouble-makers in
the riots there by spraying a colored
liquid on the leaders of the crowds. The
cable says the scheme didn’t work
well. There is one common chemical
which, colorless itself, gives a beautiful
blue tinge to any organic matter it
touches. Painted on cash boxes or
similar gadgets by suspicious owners,
who themselves don a pair of old gloves
when handling them, the ineradicable
blue stain has proved the undoing of
many a rogue. I once tried it on
some bottles of special whisky during
absence on a Papuan patrol, the said
whisky having shown signs of shrinking
by the bottle during a previous absence.
It is painful to record that the bluest
fingers of several lots were those of a
visiting R.M. who had, Papuan fashion,
been quartering himself on me during
my absence and economising in the use
of his own liquor.
* * * *
“Fodgie”: When Flinders landed on
Kangaroo Island in 1802 he found a
spring on the beach, and aptly named the
little inlet Freshwater Bay. Years passed,
and it became Hog Bay ; when this jarred
on somebody’s susceptibilities Penneshaw
was evolved. It is said to be a com-
pound of the name of a certain Pro-
fessor Pennefather and that of a London
journalist, Miss Shaw, who visited Aus-
tralia some 40 years ago. A windmill on
the beach waters the stock of the town-
ship and adjacent farms from Flinders’s
spring to this day.
TRY, TRY AGAIN.
“The seventh Labor Unity Conference is about
to be staged.”
Half a dozen times you’ve gathered, hoping—
but the hope was idle —
That the dove of peace was handy, half a
dozen times conferred
That some means might be devised for ending
faction fratricidal
And the hatchet (good old hatchet!) cere-
moniously interred.
But there’s always luck in seven, comrades!
Bruce supplies a guider
On the subject—and I don’t refer to Stanley,
it is plain,
But the sturdy Scot who gathered inspiration
from a spider
Never to be dashed by failure, but to try,
try, try again.
Quite a score of meaty proverbs come into my
head concerning
All the virtues that in tireless pertinacity
there be,
Never was a lane so lengthy but there came at
last a turning;
Never weary stream that doesn’t struggle
somewhere safe to sea.
And the peacemakers are blessed, sure inheritors
of heaven.
Carry on then, ccunarados ! Six endeavors
have been vain,
But you mustn’t feel discouraged. It’s
a lucky number seven,
And it’s “dogged,” chaps, “that does
it.” You can always try again.
There’s a Bible passage somewhere—
I’m a trifle hazy whether
It’s Isaiah or Ezekiel —where the
gentle reader’s bid
To envisage wolves and lambkins
grouped in amity together
Or to contemplate the leopard frater-
nising with the kid.
You’ve a job that’s somewhat similar,
I’d say, in reconciling
Those uncompromising factions rent
and split so long in twain;
But, whatever be the upshot, don’t
forget to take it smiling,
Howsoever oft you’re baffled, you can
always try again.
Once again the olive branches are collected for
extending,
And the give-and-take prescriptions trotted
out to meet the case.
And they say it’s on the cards this time we’ll
see the dove descending,
And embittered foes aforetime locked in
passionate embrace.
Lang and Theo. clinking glasses! Fractious
Ward, aggressive Beasley
Sobbing out on Scull.in’s shoulders all
their bitterness and pain!
Can you turn the trick, compaheros ? ’Twon’t,
I fear, be managed eas’ly,
But, if cards are stacked against you, you
can try, try, try again.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jic”: Prisoner at the bar was charged
with three housebreaking offences. Con-
ducting his own defence, he was busily
cross-examining a meek little man, one
of his alleged victims. “I am charged
with stealing an overcoat from your
house,” he began. “So I understand,”
murmured the witness. “Mr. Smith,”
thundered the prisoner, “have you ever in
your life seen me before?” The witness
peered through his oversize spectacles.
“No,” he admitted. “I wasn’t home
when you came.”
* * * *
“Jane”: Curious place-names (B.
12/2/’36)? Ewos-parade, Cronulla, was
originally Ewos-avenue, christened after
E. W. O’Sullivan, who lived there at the
time. It was a long time before the City
Fathers could be made to see anything
mirthful in the name, but eventually they
changed it.
* * * *
“Sea Lawyer”: A Laidley (Q.) magis-
trate ruled recently that the words “Get
out of the sulky and I’ll fight you” were
merely an invitation which might be
ignored, and not an actionable threat.
Rather unusual, but on the very same day
Brisbane’s Railway Appeal Court gave a
decision on all-fours with it. An engine-
driver appealed against a fine imposed
for neglect of duty. While having a meal
to which he was entitled under the arbi-
tration award, he ignored a direction
to shunt his engine on to a side
line. An irate official had demanded
of him: “Are you going to do
the shunt, or are you going to have
a feed?” The engine-driver had cast his
vote in favor of a feed. The Court de-
cided that the official’s words constituted
a question, and not an instruction.
Appeal upheld.
* * * *
“E.E.”: “Snip’s” reference to dress-
making terms (B. 12/2/’36) reminds me
that I was once sitting in a M.L. dress-
maker’s rooms when a young man burst
in, flung down a badly-wrapped parcel
and announced “Luce says she wants
two more barbs on it near the waist.”
“Barbs?” echoed the dressmaker; “what
are they?” “You ought to know,” re-
torted the youth. “I’m to come back for
the frock at five. Luce is getting mar-
ried to-morrow.” “What on earth does
he mean?” wailed the modiste as the
emissary departed. “I can’t afford to
lose her, she’s one of my best customers,
but what are barbs?” Telephones were
rare things in those days, so I volunteered
to go round and try to find out. On
my way back, after a fruitless quest, the
word the youth was aiming at suddenly
dawned on me. “Darts! Of course, darts.
Why didn’t I think of them?” said the
dressmaker gratefully. Darts they were,
and the frock was ready in time. Those
were the days when we wore gores and
darts and all sorts of mysterious things.
* * * *
“Worried”: “General Prac.” writes
gloomily about the overcrowded medical
profession (B. 12/2/’36), but what about
the legal one? No profession has suffered
more since 1929 ; nevertheless, four times
a year, not once, a fresh batch of solicitors
is admitted. Every one of the 2,600,000
people in N.S.W. is a potential patient
of some doctor, but this does not apply
to the solicitors, who now number 1700.
The medical degree permits a doctor to
practise when and where he pleases irre-
spective of State or Dominion, but a
solicitor is limited to his own particular
State; if he leaves he has to serve a
“Good gracious, Archibald, are you NEVER satisfied?
period of probation in another State
before he can hang out his shingle. A
young man can make only a pittance
until established (and then £4OO p.a.
would be comparative wealth); hence he
is practically forced to do things which
formerly would have been held as un-
ethical —“competitive wrangling” is the
least of them. Every N.S.W. solicitor
has to take out an annual license to en-
able him to practise. And to set
against free medical treatment furnished
at hospitals and clinics the young lawyer
is confronted with divorce in forma
pauperis and on “fees suspended” basis,
public-trustee agents in probate and
administration matters and a legal-aid
department in relation to all legal work.
* * * *
“Brick Court”: Last week N.S.W.
Supreme Court upset, on appeal, the ver-
dict of a jury on the ground that it was
“one to which no reasonable body of
men could have come.” It is a pity that
in cases like these, far from infrequent,
the original Judge hasn’t the power, when
he is of the same opinion, to order that
the case should be retried before another
jury and another Judge. As it is, ’Sonah
is obliged to content himself with a few
satirical remarks before he enters a judg-
ment that he may regard as irrational to
the point of absurdity. It may be argued
that there should be no interference with
the immemorial rights of juries, but 1
don’t know why these should be regarded
as sacrosanct when it is obvious that a
higher Court can decide that the good
men and true made asses of themselves.
Some 50 years ago there was an English
Judge (Manisty) who contemptuously set
aside the verdict of a jury in a civil case
and entered judgment in direct opposition
to it. There was a good deal of pother
over his action —which probably no
modern Judge would dare to take —but
there was no further litigation.
* * * *
“McHaggis”: Colonel Burton Stewart,
a visitor from Scotland who is making a
trip to this country to increase the mem-
bership of the Stewart Society, announces
that Stuarts will be equally acceptable
as the dinkum article, but he is doubt-
“Sorry, lady — it's engaged for a 'oneymoon couple and their family."
“Family! But surely" ,
“ Yairs, it does seem silly takin THEM along"
ful concerning the Sturts. There can’t
be many of the last, anyhow—though
the name of one of them is written in-
delibly on our map —but it is to be hoped
the news that they are hardly inside the
Stuart-Stewart pale will be broken to
them gently. Incidentally, it is rather
curious that', though the name of the
royal house is invariably spelt “Stuart,”
you will find three times as many
Stewarts as Stuarts wherever you look
for them. At least, that is about the
proportion in Who’s Who, probably as
good a gauge as any other.
* * * *
“Clara Clobber”: The flapper-press
outcry for an Australian national cos-
tume will produce some interesting results
when we hold our first mannequin
parade. My design for boys from 16
to 60 —in our business we do not speak
of males, the term being too unrefained
and suggestive—is an ensemble of neck-
to-knee rompers, cut wide on the bias
for the more mature, and trimmed with
torchon lace pulled through with baby-
ribbon wherever it is not obscured by
overhang of the fa9ade. The girl figure
—not female, please, for above reasons —
does not lend itself to really picturesque
treatment. It may be best to leave the
national costume at shorts and bras-
sieres, so that backblock bachelors with
no opportunities for surfing may have
no delusions as to what a backless dance
frock can still conceal.
* * * *
“Kali”: Don’t know what sort of artil-
lery is carried by the Pentridge warders
(B. 19/2/’36), but if it is the same vin-
tage as tliat issued to those at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) Gaol It must be quite out of
date. I recently inspected the Bathurst
institution, and found the warders
equipped with Lee-Enfields of the 1884
brand. One of them to whom I was
speaking mentioned casually that his
weapon hadn’t been fired for 20 years.
He hoped that he would never have to
discharge it, as he wasn’t at all sure that
the breeching wouldn’t blow out,
* * S: *
“Pounce”: The typewriter has settled
the engrosser ; even wills are banged out
on the machine nowadays. A well-
written deed looks imposing, with its
accompaniments of sealing-wax and
green ribbon, and solicitors used to take
a pride in their copperplate masterpieces.
Engrossers charged so much per folio
and earned a good living. I have seen
ten-page parchments written in exquisite
copperplate without a single slip. One
old-time engrosser in Melbourne had
enough writing to keep himself and his
two daughters going all the time ; their
joint earnings averaged £2O a week. A
quill was used for lettering certain parts
of the deed, and it was generally cut
from a fowl’s feather. To cut a good
quill is not the easy job it might appear.
One leading architect in Melbourne who
does quite a lot of special lettering told
me it took him six months to learn to
cut one. In the hands of an expert the
quill can be made to produce great
artistry. But there are no engrossers left
to use them now.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: When the only surviving
witness to a will told the N.S.W. Probate
Court that he had never met the testatrix,
had not seen her sign the document and
had not heard her declaration that it
was her will the
Court declined to
admit it to pro-
bate. And the will
was no home-
made production.
“You know my
signature” (or
Blank’s signature)
—“would you mind
signing as wit-
ness?” is a com-
mon formula ; and
the request is gen-
erally granted
without the witness knowing or caring
that the law requires him to see
the actual signing and to comply with
certain other formalities. In the case
mentioned a husband who had been left
out of the will looked for grounds to
upset it, and found them.
“PERFECTLY WONDERFUL.”
“Elderly gentleman, very fond of travel, would
like meet lady with means and same ideas. The
Coronation in’ England next year will be perfectly
wonderful.” — “Argus” view mat. ad.
He’s fond of jaunts about the world’s wide
spaces;
He loves to ride in steamer, car and train,
And in his ardent zeal for “going places”
He mightn’t boggle at an aeroplane.
So, his supreme ambition to attain,
He offers any trusting soul a ring
Who’ll shout a trip across the roaring mail*
To view the coronation of a king.
Blithely he’ll don the matrimonial traces
With any consort, elegant or plain,
Endowed or unendowed with charms and
graces,
Who’ll give his hobby free and frequent rein.
For trotting round the globe’s too heavy a
strain
On his exchequer. Hence he’s game to bring
Himself as prize to any dame who’ll deign
To make a date with him to see a king.
He’s been to Moonta, p’r’aps. But time effaces
His memory of that Cousin Jack domain.
He yearns for farther fields. His fancy races
To France and Erin, Switzerland and Spain.
And, above all, our ageing gent, is fain
To get a glimpse of London, and to fling
His hat in air and loyal toasts to drain
While Edward No. 8 is crowned a king.
“Lady with means,” whose tastes are twin and
twain
With his, you’ll welcome be as flowers in
spring
Unto a frank (and impecunious) swain
Who sighs to see the crowning of a king.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


,: *\v
AL
L33I
20 form
lO/orO' 1
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality .
—O IIAWr
QUwtetPi&eJi
■
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
TIPPED CIGARETTE
GENERAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Vic. Premier Dunstan has made one
of those things called “timely announce-
ments” when by-elections are coming
on: 4250 men are to be employed
on relief jobs “during the early winter
months.” The trouble is that these jobs
don’t last and that the debt does.
Australian Governments are getting no
change from the bankers summoned to
enlighten Lyons’s latest commission, and
examined at prodigious length by a Syd-
ney professor and a defeated Labor poli-
tician. Said W. A. Leitch, of the Union:
Governments with their incessant bor-
rowing are draining the market of money
which should be employed in more pro-
ductive channels.
And everyone but' politicians and their
clients knows that it’s true.
For the 1934-35 twelvemonth, Queens-
land loan expenditure was £4,785,700, an
amount greater than in any other re-
corded year except 1925-26, when
£4,950,800 was played up from loans.
Then, as now, Labor was in office and a
general election was held in May, 1926.
There is always a spurt in loan spendings
when a general election looms up and
Labor is in.
Though Queensland Labor claims that
unemployment has got down to normal,
unemployed-relief-tax funds are being
drawn on to a greater extent than ever.
For seven months of 1934-35, £943,527
of unemployed-relief-fax money was
spent; for seven months of 1935-36,
£1,599,658. It seems queer.
Since the League Covenant became
“the cornerstone of British foreign
policy,” Ministers have ceased to act
on the principle “that it doesn’t matter a
damn what we say so long as we all
say the same thing,” and slackness has
made itself evident in various depart-
ment's. Witness the Hoare affair, Austen
Chamberlain’s attack on Baldwin for
making conflicting statements and being
in a confused state of mind about
defence, repeated sabotage on warships
and now the pinching of a secret Foreign
Office paper and its publication in Italy.
The disappearance of the paper is one
result of letting the Foreign Minister,
now the great Anthony Eden, become
the Minister for Meddling in Foreigners’
Affairs.
Lord Mottistone, who used to be
Colonel Seely, mentioned during the
Lords debate on the League and its
futilities that he had it from an Italian
statesman that “sanctions” had “intensi-
fied national unity.” Lord Stanhope, who
leads for the Government', denied it, but
his sources of information are probably
as imperfect as is his knowledge of
human nature. Australians know how
they would react if sanctions were
applied to them to enforce, say, sur-
render of the New Guinea mandate or
abandonment of the White Australia
policy. They would resist to a man,
even if Lang were Prime Minister.
Earle Page is distressed because public
life has so little attraction for Sydney
Uni. graduates ; there are only two in the
House of Reps: himself and Lawson.
Perhaps one way to make Uni. men more
Parliament-minded would be to give them
members of their own, as is done in
Britain ; there the Universities return 11
members. But it would be hazardous for
Page to propose anything of the sort at
Canberra.
Ihe London and Dublin Governments
have renewed and liberalised the arrange-
ment under which Britain agreed to take
more live and dead meat from the Free
State and the Free State more coal and
cement from Britain. Their relations
have sensibly improved. When King
George died, De Valera proposed a
motion of sympathy with the royal family
and the British people which was car-
ried in the Dail, all standing.
In the controversy as to Whether poli-
ticians should go to England, at the
public’s expense, “to complete their edu-
cation” or begin it or something, no
mention has been made of Premier Col-
lier’s case. Collier has never been to
England. This has not prevented Kim
from periodically pulling the legs of
anti-Labor Canberra politicians who
have. Judged on results, he is the shrewd-
est and most successful of Australian
politicians; and Westralian Laborites
are not alone in thinking him the best
of the bunch.
Collier has now won four general
elections, and no other Australian Labor
leader has done that. Queensland Labor
under four leaders (five, including Gil-
lies) has won seven elections, but Queens-
land is far more of a Labor State than
Westralia ; nor did the Queensland party
suffer because of conscription as West-
ralian Labor did. Collier, leading the
antis, was fined, his forces were routed,
WHY STOP AT BUSBIES
“Mr. Parkhill is in favor of brightening up army headgear to help recruiting, and suggests
busbies.”
and when it was all over he found him-
self leading only the remnant of a party.
Then in the process of years he had
to wrestle with unfriendly Canberra Gov-
ernments and a very awkward secesh agi-
tation, being himself committed to uni-
fication. Though never exactly “daring,”
he has assuredly been a most skilful
“pilot in extremity.”
Premature disclosure in Brisbane of
the personnel of the Licensing Commis-
sion, despite a last-minute change known
only to the very inside, resulted in the
circulation of a “secret” ultimatum from
the Acting Premier, intimating that any-
one responsible for future leakages, from
the loftiest of clerks down to the office-
boy, would suffer dire penalties. 'The
joke is that a copy of this secret and
confidential ukase appeared in the press
on the day following its initial emerg-
ence from the Acting Premier’s own holy
of holies. The office cat is suspected.
Though it blotted out the NIRA and
AAA parts of the Roosevelt programme,
the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that
the Government may constitutionally dis-
tribute and sell electric power. This has
made Wall-street nervous, because the
Government has risked 500 or 600 mil-
lion dollars on hydro-electric schemes
designed to compete with private con-
cerns. And the judgment will strengthen
fears that it may take over privately-
owned railways.
Sydney’s U.A.P. council has censured
the Stevens Government for continuing
the form of “control” under which 7d.
a quart is charged for milk in the city
with the most copious supply in the
world. The Metropolitan Labor Confer-
ence would have passed a like resolu-
tion if the heads had not remembered
that “control” was set up by the Lang
Government, so “a substantial reduc-
tion in the price” was demanded instead.
Here is a case in which a monstrous
injustice, which would not last 10
minutes if it were put to the vote, is per-
petrated on the people with the conniv-
ance of party bosses subservient to a
small sectional interest. A very putrid
result of machine politics.
There has been a battle at last in
Abyssinia, and the Abyssinians were
beaten, although pro-nigger warriors who
write for London newspapers have done
their best to win it for them. The. com-
batants’ casualty lists differ, as used to
happen in the Great War, “and the
‘News-Chronicle’ wonders whether the
Italian or the Abyssinian figures are the
more unreliable.” There is no cause
for wonder in the case of the “Cronk-
News.” For “unreliability” the “Cronk-
News” pabulum with which Australians
are stuffed through the cable service is
alone and unapproachable.
Official returns for January, 1936, from
Beerwah, a railway station 47 miles north
of Brisbane, on the Bruce Highway, where
the Transport Strangulation Board has
got in some of its best work, compare
interestingly with those for January, 1935,
when the hated interlopers were still go-
ing strong. Passenger fares returned £5l
—for 1935, £55. Freights yielded £ll2
in 1935, £l4l. Total revenue at £3OB
was £4O less than in the preceding
January ; 165 tons, mostly timber, fruit
and cream, was dispatched, compared
with 249 tons a year before. All this sug-
gests that the Stranglers are choking their
own Railway Department and the devel-
opment of the Beerwah district as well
as road transport.
One odd effect of “sanctions” has
been the retention in Italy of a bronze
memorial to “the Man with the Donkey.”
It was cast months ago ; then Common-
wealth legislation stood in the way of
payment. Apropos, “the Man” was
only a private, and wasn’t' thought worthy
of even an M.M. He enlisted as Simp-
son, but his name was Kirkpatrick. He
was a “pommy” and a ship’s fireman,
and it was reserved for a Conservative
newspaper which wouldn’t be seen dead
with a ship’s fireman to arrange for the
only memorial he will have, save immor-
tality. Life is full of ironies, and death
is not without them.
Stevens and co. are out with another
loan-railways programme, in addition to
the suburban sewerage works that are to
cost £15,000,000 and the “sixty schemes
for the country.” First comes Suther-
land-Cronulla: estimate, £300,000 “ex-
clusive of land and compensation.”
Sutherland-Cronulla had a steam tram-
way which cost £48,000 or so and was
run at a steady loss of £lO,OOO a year.
Next is Sandy Hollow-Maryvale: esti-
mate, £1,431,900; annual revenue,
£25,000 ; annual loss, £90,730. “Fellow-
members of the U.A.P., I tell you again
our Government is simply wunnerful,
and Mr. Stevens is the greatest Premier
New South Wales ever ’ad.”
Queensland Labor is again talking of
an open season for possums. Apparently
it is restrained only by the consideration
that present world prices scarcely make
the slaughter worth while. If they im-
prove sufficiently the probabilities are
that Queensland will again witness a
sickening butchery of young in the pouch
(possum fur is at its best in the breeding
season) and wholesale destruction of
what is left of the koala (only experts
can tell the difference between possum
and koala skins, packed and dressed) —
that’s if Queensland doesn’t swiftly re-
volt against the hideously cruel and
wasteful business.
Still advocating a barter agreement, F.
H. Bushell tells The Bulletin that
Russia’s inability to obtain sufficient
wool reduces the total world’s consump-
tion, and so reduces the world price.
If a fact, it applies equally to Italy.
Also products I suggested receiving in
exchange are being imported, so do not
“endanger” our industries.
Mr. Bushell suggested matches. Imports
of matches for the two years to June,
1935, were valued at £1637 Australian.
That indicates what exposure to Russian
competition would mean to our match
factories. Finally,
Stalin does not favor internationalism.
... .To-day internationalism is mere politi-
cal idealism, with no practical influence.
This is not the opinion of the London
“Times” (“the Communist International
exists for the avowed purpose of promot-
ing civil war in non-Communist coun-
tries”) ; of the Frenchmen who are de-
nouncing the Franco-Soviet pact, or of
Australians whose businesses have suf-
fered or who have lost their jobs because
of the latest Communist strike.
“Analyst,” from Newcastle (N.S.W.):
The incessant activities of Communists on
the coalfields are being assisted by Government
mishandling of the oil question. Unemployed
men and youths have been told that coal or
shale would be utilised for oil production, and
have been buoyed up with hopes of jobs.
Now we see Newnes dumped, and learn that
patent rights will prevent hydrogenation of oil
save in such quantities as may—in somebody’s
opinion—be necessary for defence purposes.
On top of this we learn that £6,000,000 is to
be spent in defence which won’t be worth a
cracker in war unless we have a petrol supply.
Again, £5OOO is to be fooled away in speeding
up the search for flow oil—£sooo wouldn't put
down one single drill hole of sufficient depth
to prove anything. All these things help the
Red propagandist.


h.
AccePO'HC To the Guide-Book.
Sues Too PR'etty "
/#
Mot pretty emouqh"
ft A
Too ATmET'C .
" Looks beucate"
/
1 COULOHT KEEP HEE tIH CLOT HE. s'*,
TOO SLO'JEHuV *
, / *
I DOHt UKE Hew A.NKLES .
I Wamt a tuife .
KOT A SEdeETißy.*
//
Ves . SHE MAV BE A,
<=,OOCS COOK.. e»UT "
" too e>a.p ! M
, \%
I WItQHT Do Worse
" And I Mic,ht do a. Lot Bett£(s,^
ACCORDING TO THE BOOK.
“An English Judge recently remarked that a guide-book should be written on the subject of choosing a wife.”


Ti
ie
Australia
I
fir I!
C
If
iffunri
rf
tel
SYDNEY
[Ed
HI
■r
i!*}
&j.
i
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney
WAITING FOR YOU
The Brilliant Atmosphere; the Notable
Social Life; the Convenient Location; the
World-famous Cuisine.
' First Three Floors now open! Features
include:—
THE NEW WINTER GARDEN—Smartest
rendezvous in Sydney.
LUNCHEONS and DINNERS. The
BE VERY—Sydney’s newest and smartest
restaurant. Minimum tariff. 1/G. Afternoon
Tea from 1/-.
THE MARTIN-PLACE BAR—Only bar in
the area.
THE NEW BALLROOM—Beautiful in
design—stately in proportions. Dance floor
above criticism.
THE NEW BUILDING IS AIR-CONDITIONED THROUGHOUT.
Sydney
m
the
its
Please make your Reservations now for Easter.
PERSONAL ITEM S
John Allan, M.L.A., a pillar of the
old Victorian Farmers’ Union and a
founder of the Vic. Country party, died
on Saturday at his home near Wyuna
(Vic.). His political life was strenuous,
but he held Rodney against all odds and
was Premier by grace of the Nationalists,
1924-27. He was leader of the C.P. for
13 years, 1920-33. The fine old boy was
in his seventieth year when the end came.
Coventry’s sketch of E. A. Badcock
conveys a good idea of the level-headed-
ness and sound commonsense of the
manager of S. Australia’s biggest co-
E.A. BADCOCK, a prophet of
co-operation.
operative concern. Badcock has been in
the forefront in the co-operative move-
ment for the best part of a generation,
and there are few farms in S.A. on which
his name is not a household word.
F. A. McQuisten, K.C., who is visiting
Australia, is an unusual case in British
law in that his early days were spent as
a solicitor. He was 39 before he was
enrolled as an advocate in Edinburgh,
and he was not called to the London Bar
until a year after he was a K.C. His line
is mainly commercial, and he is chairman
and a director of a company or two with
Tasmanian interests.
E. G. (“Dryblower”) Murphy, the
Westralian bard, is in Sydney after many
years. Gippsland-born, Murphy was one
of the early birds on Coolgardie, and he
has been entertaining Westralians with
rippling rhymes and racy yarns ever
since. In his youth he sang tenor in a
Williamson Gilsullivan co., an experience
he turned to good account when he wrote
the words and music of “This Bit of the
World Belongs to Us.” And his “My
Son” is one of the war poems that have
not been forgotten.
The young Earl of Ranfurly—he is
22—who breaks the drought in peerages
which has afflicted Commonwealth vice-
regal staffs since the days of the Forsters,
is descended from an M.P. for Dun-
gannon who braved, with young Arthur
Wellesley, in the old Irish House of Com-
mons of the seventeen-eighties, the in-
vective of Napper Tandy. The father
of the present earl was a Coldstreamer
who was killed in action in 1915. His
mother had Australian ancestry —she was
a daughter of Daniel Cooper, baronet, of
Woollahra (N.S.W.).
The small, dapper figure of Ray Aus-
tin, chief of staff of the “Age” for 16
years, and now dead, was known in every
corner of Australia where there was poli-
tical news. Though never strong, he was
a relentlessly hard worker, and during
the war drove himself through the con-
scription campaigns under double steam,
with results from which he never quite’
recovered. His knowledge of Federal
politics was unexcelled in newspaperdom.
“Stunt”: In the recent death of
Squadron-Leader M. C. MacGregor
Maoriland has lost its No. 1 airman.
Mac crashed when his ’plane hit an
anemometer mast at Wellington ’drome
in bad weather, and died two hours later.
With H. C. Walker, he flew the
smallest ’plane in the centenary air race,
a Miles Hawk, and covered the route
in seven days to finish fifth. When he
reached Melbourne the ’plane was
patched with wire, but he had set a
new record for a single-engined machine.
He was a prominent war pilot, and won
his name of “Mad Mac” as a member
of Major Bishop’s fighting circus. He
was in several dramatic fights with Baron
von Richthofen’s all-reds and won the
D.F.C. and a bar to it.
E. J. Hughes, who beat Minister Ken-
neally for the East Perth seat when in
the shadow of bankruptcy, has had his
debts paid by friends and admirers.
Westralia has had at least one legis-
lator who was snuffed out by bankruptcy
—G. T. Simpson, wittiest and most elo-
quent of Opposition members in For-
rest’s time. Simpson represented Gerald-
ton, and when financial trouble overtook
him he had to resign, as required by the
Constitution. He wasn’t prevented from
standing again, however, and this he did,
only to be beaten by a local man,
Robson. By the irony of fate Robson
himself was compelled to resign a year
or two later because he had charged the
Forrest Government with being “rotten
and corrupt” and had failed to substan-
tiate his words (spoken on a public plat-
form) before a royal commission.
Frank Langstone, who is having his
first taste of office as M.L. Lands Minis-
ter, earned his
Labor eminence as
an official of the
Shearers’ Union.
When his elo-
quence seemed ripe
he tried it on the
electors of Waima-
rino 17 years ago,
but failed to hyp-
notise them. Three
years afterwards,
he had better luck.
He now sits for
Taumarunui. For
long Langstone
managed railway
refreshment-rooms.
Nowadays he owns
a restaurant in his
constituency.
Lord Nuffield is
back in Australia
after a year’s
absence. He ar-
rived thinly dis-
guised as Mr.
M.L.’s Lands Minister.
Richards, but he happens to be un-
disguisable: that lean, active form
and blunt expression and the rich
Doric which he speaks have no counter-
parts. He is one of the simplest of men,
and is little changed from the days when
he ran a small bicycle shop at Cowley in
the outskirts of Oxford. Last time he
visited Australia he gave £50,000 for the
benefit of crippled children.
Some March birthdays:
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. “Argus”), 62, on Ist;
ex-N.S.W. Customs Collector W. H. Barkley,
67, J. B. Cramsie (meat expert), 65, Eric
Spooner (N.S.W. Local Govt. Min.), 45, ex-
Q’land Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 73, on
2nd; S.A. Min. for Lands Malcolm Mclntosh,
48, on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 72, and
N.S.W. Senator A. K. Dein, 47, on 4th;
former Vic. Premier Harry Lawson, 61, and
Col. Spain (Syd.), 68, on sth; Major-Gen.
Bruche, 63, and naturalist David Stead
(N.S.W.), 59, on 6th; Dr. AEneas McDonnell
(Toowoomba), 72, on 7th; Lieut. Wm. Dun-
ston, V.C., 41, and Prof. R. C. Mills, 50, on
Bth; medico-knight Colin Mackenzie (Aus.
Inst, of Anatomy, Canberra), 59, and S.A.
Senator James McLachlan, 66, on 9th; artist-
knight John Longstaff, 74, Lieut.-Col. J. P.
Fry (Bris.), 56, and Speck Premier A. G.
Ogilvie, 45, on 10th; A. C. Fisken, M.H.R.
(Ballarat), 39, on 11th; knight Frank Clarke
(Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 57, G. S. Knowles
(Federal Solicitor-General), 54, Prof. F. A.
Todd (Syd.), 56, and ex-N.S.W. Senator Arthur
Rae, 76, on Nth; Henry Gregory, M.H.R.
(Swan), 76, Archbishop Hayden (Hobart), 68,
knight Wm. Goodman (Adel. Tramways Trust),
64, Walter Lucas, pioneer island trader, 67,
Mat Charlton (ex-Federal Labor leader), 70,
Prof. W. R. B. Gibson (Melb.), 67, on 15th;
N.S.W. Govt. Geologist L. F. Harper, 63, on
17th; Prof. E. R. Holme (Syd.), 65, novelist
Bernard Cronin, 52, and artist Louis McCub-
bin, 45, on 18th; Capt. W. D. Joynt, V.C.,
47, on 19th; Vic. ex-Governor Somers, 49,
poet Arthur Bayldop, 71, former Federal
Speaker Mackay, 64, knight Ben Fuller, 61,
Rev. John Armour (Q.), 47, and W.A. Speaker
A H. Panton, M.L.A., 59, on 20th; E. J.
Ward, M.H.R. (East Sydney), 37, on 21st; E. A.
Atherton (ex-Q’land Min. for Mines), 57, and
Monsignor Lonergan (Administrator St. Pat-
rick's Cathedral, Melb.), 48, on 22nd; knight
Charles Marr, M.H.R., 56, Vic. ex-Agent-Gen.
Geo. Fairbairn, 81, E. W. Parkes (Clerk of
House of Reps.), 63, and novelist Roy Bridges,
51, on 23rd; N.S.W. Minister Mick Bruxner,
54, on 25th; knight Harry Gullett, M.H.R.,
58, ex-W.A. Senator de Largie, 77, J. G.
Bayley (ex-M.H.R. for Oxley), 54, Archie
Cameron, M.H.R. (Barker), 41, on 26th; Peter
Board (ex-Director of Educ., N.S.W.), 78,
Federal Public Service Commissioner W. j!
Clemens, 63, and Prof.-knight Wm. Mitchell
(Adel.), 75, on 27th; J. S. Macdonald (director
Art Gallery), 58, Josiah Francis,
M.R.H. (Moreton), 46, and author Alex. Chis-
holm, 46, on 28th ; Prof. T. G. Tucker (Melb.),
Vl V> Brooks (Speck’s Director of
Educ.), 59, Hal Colebatch, 64, and L. V. Biggs
(Melb. “Age”), 63, on 29th; former N.S.W.
Gov. Phillip Game, 60, Speck Senator Samp-
son, 54, and Vic. Min. of Public Works
Goudie, 70, on 30th; Bishop O’Collins (Gerald-
ton), 44, S.A. Premier Butler, 51, Bishop-
Coadjutor Wylde (Bathurst), 56, Adel.-born
Prof. W. Lawrence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel Prize
winner), 46, N.S.W. Chief Sec. Chaffey, 48
Hon. W. L. R. Clarke, M.L.C. (Vic.), 60, and
ex-Federal Speaker Norman Makin (M.H R
for Hindmarsh), 47, on 31st.
John Maffey, whose report on Italo-
Abyssinian affairs has made a stir in
Europe, is a long,
careful, polished
civil servant who
graduated to the
G.-G.-ship of the
Sudan after a long
and arduous course
in savage politics
along the North-
West Indian Fron-
tier. A brilliant
Oxfordian, he was
political head at
Peshawar and the
Khyber in the dis-
turbed years before
the war, and when
the dust-up of 1919
came he was given
the job of handling
Afghan relations
and soothing down
the N.-W. Province.
He has been
private secretary to
the Viceroy, and
for a time the
Duke of Connaught’s principal secre-
tary. In 1933, having been seven years
in the Sudan, J.M. was recalled to Eng-
land to become Under-Secretary for the
Colonies.
Adelaide gets, and Sydney loses, a
good scientist in the quiet citizen who
prefers to be known as Brother Albertus.
He goes from science master of Marist
Brothers at Randwick to be head of
Sacred Heart at Glenelg. While in
N.S.W. he has been v.p. of the Science
Teachers’ Association and joint author
of a textbook of laboratory experiments
in physics.
Emil Sodersteen, whose new buildings
are rearing themselves all over the heart
of Sydney, was, at 24, the youngest prac-
tising architect in Australia. At 27 he
EMIL SODERSTEEN, architect.
was joint architect for the national war
memorial at Canberra, following the win-
ning of an Empire-wide competition. He
has just completed the new additions to
the Hotel Australia, and the huge Syd-
ney head office of the City Mutual is
rearing its head under his guidance.
Back at Concordia College in Adel-
aide, where he was educated, is R. H.
Altus, with long experience of Lutheran
pastorates elsewhere. He began them at
Christchurch and Upper Moutere (M.L.),
and since 1929 has been at Tabor (Vic.),
taking a Melbourne M.A. meanwhile,
and winning the Wilson Prize for “Ger-
manic languages.”
General Charles Tucker, dead at 97,
.will be gratefully remembered by many
South African veterans. He commanded
a division in the advance from Modder
River to Pretoria, and about his color-
ful personality countless legends twined.
An Irish-Indian soldier of a type fast
dying out, Tucker was a close rival with
his fellow “Mick” Kelly-Kenny in
parade-ground eloquence. His farewell
to the troops at Cape Town, where he
was commanding for a brief time after
the Boer War, is a classic. “Oi know
phwat yiz’ll be sayin’ behind me back:
‘There goes Tucker, the blanky ould
blank.’ Will, thin, the same to yiz all,
and many av thim.”
Frank Dalby Davison, who succeeds
Flora Eldershaw as president of the Fel-
lowship of Australian Writers, is an out-
standing novelist —author of Forever
Morning, Man-Shy, Wells of Beersheba,
and, in collaboration with Brooke
Nicholls, Blue Coast Caravan. He
was born in Melbourne in “the year
of the grasshopper plague,” and after
leaving school worked in the bush.
When the war broke out he was
in America with his parents, and he
worked his passage across the Atlantic
to enlist at Liverpool (Eng.). He saw
service in France, first as a private in the
Queen’s Bays, and later with the Hert-
fordshires, in which he was commis-
sioned. Returning to Australia, he settled
on a property in Queensland, but the
blowfly beat him. He then turned writer.


f 1
HOSPITAL
m
Nature has decreed an inflexible rule that
the bowels must operate every day. They
are the main channel which Nature has
appointed to carry away what is unnecessary, and it
is impossible to tell how large an amount of sickness has
been caused by constipation or costiveness; in other
words, by not keeping the bowels regular—it is the main
road to most illnesses; it is the cause of unnatural irritation
to the mucous or lining membrane of the bowels.
Having lost their natural strength they object to doing
what is required of them. Hence the bowels become
inflamed, and unless you find a speedy relief a thousand
other complaints are ever ready to drag you through a
miserable and wretched life. Such medicine must be
given as will cleanse the stomach and bowels, and thus
help to restore their natural activity. To accomplish this
there is no compound so valuable as Dr. Morse s
INDIAN ROOT PILLS, which are purely vegetable
and do not gripe.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are also an excellent
medicine for Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Rheumatism and Skin Blemishes due to irregularity of
the bowels.
Dr. Morse's
n
n
I
y
\dortkdh
mr
PILLS
I •
er
e
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
When the skin is burned by either wind
or sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring relief.
If the skin is too tender to bear being
touched by hand, lay a clean linen or
cotton cloth, saturated with the Balm, over
the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night will
keep mosquitoes away. It also soothes
mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore, Tired Feet. —Apply Mirpil to
the soles of your feet when sore and
tired. The relief is wonderful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity of
Mirpil rubbed on the face after shaving
will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder. —Always rub
Mirpil into the skin until dry. The
cleansing and cooling actions of this
preparation will enhance the comfort
which powder provides.
All chemists and leading stores or will
be sent post paid upon receipt of postal
notes or stamps by The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price, 2/6 per bottle.
WORMS
HOW TO TREAT THEM.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents of
the Bowels, generally occasion pain or
uneasiness in the Abdomen, sometimes
spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and biting,
and not infrequently of a vague, indescrib-
able character, and yet very distressing.
Sympathetic with this is a sensation of
itching at the Nostrils, producing a dis-
position to pick the Nose, which is
characteristic of the affection. The Bowels
are often disordered, sometimes relaxed,
as in Dysentery. The appetite is exceed-
ingly variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The abdomen is often hard,
swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with dis-
agreeable taste, and a copious flow of
saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleeding
of the nostrils and disposition to grind
the teeth during the sleep are other
characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the Ali-
mentary Canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms
or of the disordered digestion which they
occasion. Among the most common of
these are nervous affections, such as fret-
fulness, irritation of temper, wakefulness,
or disposition to excessive sleep, disturbed
sleep, sudden starting out of sleep, as if
from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, and deafness.
, DEAD SHOT
k>ROR\A PELLETS
Comstock’s "Dead Shot Worm Pellets
are compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of Stomach and Thread
Worms. They contain specific properties
which destroy the worms. The pellets
are prepared in the form of a confection
or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or
smell; but, on the contrary, inspire child-
ren to take them as they would an ordi-
nary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores.
Or direct from The W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney;
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per Box (6 boxes, 11/6), post
free. If writing please mention this paper.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
■ Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors*
DOYLE F fc.SS 0D S m H T | ,O ANII-E BDCKr ' AND
J. W. BABNES. Manager, E. y T. WHITTLE, Asst. S Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Town*.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Old. To He- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. serves, serves.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13,200 10,727
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13,200 12,637
4 p.c.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 Nil 14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041* 2250* Nil 6,483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 22,420
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 22,333'
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,799
•Half-year’s div.
The outlook for this co., which manu-
factures shirts, collars and other men’s
wear, has improved, but it is difficult to
say when the ords., which have had a
lone 5 p.c. in the last eight years, are
likely to get into the picture again. Earn-
ings have been very erratic. After it'
took over the Pearson Law business in
1911 the co. made steady progress under
the protection which the war gave. A
loss of £14,473 was recorded during the
short, sharp post-war slump in 1921.
Though the business quickly recovered,
competition became more aggressive, and
has remained so. This and the abolition
of piecework spoiled results in 1928. The
system was reintroduced, and, with the
help of a vigorous sales offensive, things
began to look up again.
Then came the big break in the
markets. To reduce outside liabilities,
stocks and book debts had to be worked
down at the worst possible moment,
while exchange and the tariff—the co.
has to import much of its raw material
—-and the hand-to-mouth policy of re-
tailers aggravated the difficulties. Hence
the losses of 1930 and 1931. Competi-
tion has since kept margins slender.
Last year turnover further improved,
owing partly to manufacture of branded
lines on behalf of overseas principals.
Gross earnings (£70,546) were up £4741.
Exes. (£60,042) were got back £1916, leav-
ing the net result £6457 better at £10,126,
or enough to pay a full year’s pref. divs.
and show a shade over 2 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal. After handing the As 7 p.c. and the
Bs 9 p.c., leaving £16,250 (= 6s. 6d. per
share) still to come on the latter, the
£3544 that remained reduced the amount
of ord. capital unrepresented by tangibles
to £18,799 —goodwill (£10,000) is not
treated as an asset herein.
To reap the advantages of cash buying,
the co. had established a credit of £22,036
(Australian currency) with its London
agents when the books closed. To do
this and clip £43,635 off the amount
coming to trade creditors, the board went
to its bankers for an extra £62,003, rais-
ing the overdraft to £101,500:
1927. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,730
Liabilities .. 237,849 147,355 101,748 120,117
Premises .. 116,929 109,378 111,406 110,881
Plant, etc. . . 77,328 64,400 53,165 51 615
Rook debts . . 124,692 75,090 95,728 90 907
Stock.. .. 182,202 150,378 77,748 79 331
Cash. etc. . . 3,250 720 470 22,460
There was little change in the more or
less liquid surplus (£72,581, including
stocks).
There are 29,736 A 7 p.c. and 50,000
B 9 p.c. cum. prefs. of £1 each and
330,000 10s. ords. The As at 235. 4d.
return 6 p.c. There has been no sale of
the Bs on ’Change for several months. At
255. 6d. the return would be 6 p.c. plus
arrears. The ords. are priced at 4s. 9d.
The net tangible cover (book value) is
£6 18s. 6d. As, £3 18s. 6d. Bs and
Bs. lOd. ords.
Australian Provincial Assurance
Towards
Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
1927+. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed ; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,37S .. 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243.544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061. . 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 240.233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152.. 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623.. 2,286,598
1931.. 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,419,668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 .. 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,643 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,511,585
1933.. 365,478 192,134 99,239 74,105 2,585,690
Taxation refund, £18,307 . . . . 2,603,997
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,602,997
Taxation reserve included. £21,000 .. 2,623,997
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755,616
Unexplained addition to reserves, £430.
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9359 ; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086; 1925,
£20,352; 1928, £17,015; 1929, £8537 ; 1930,
£8926; 1933, £4463; 1934, 1935, £9OOO.
tNine months.
With the economic hurricane out of the
way, the business on a more even keel
and sails trimmed, this co. is in a posi-
tion to make whatever further progress
trade winds will allow. Including accident
business, the spring in last year’s income
; (£379,960) was £20,808, of which £9593
was in respect of premiums (£253,092)
and £11,215 interest, etc. (£126,868).
Leaving dividends to shareholders out of
the reckoning, the year’s excess of in-
comings over outgoings, etc., was £28,197
better at £88,656, of which the Accident
branch accounted for £6122 (up £1192).
The improvement was due partly to
smaller allowance for depreciation and
mortgage losses (£4777, down £14,328).
The £88,656, plus £4991 from free
reserves, was used £46,992 to cover the
growth in liabilities under policies—the
basis of valuation was lowered from 3|
p.c. to 3 p.c. ; this alone called for
£38,824 —£36,546 to provide reversion-
ary bonuses for policy-holders, £llO9 to
further strengthen the reserve for unex-
pired accident risks (£11,911) and £9OOO
to provide a 2\ p.c. div. for shareholders.
The aim in reducing the basis of valua-
tion, which is now the same as that
adopted by most of the big progressive
life offices, is to give policy-holders more
protection and provide for better bonuses
later on. In the Life department, last
year’s return from investments (£125,604),
less land and income taxes (£5243, down
£1114), was 4.6 p.c. on the mean Life
fund as against 4.2 p.c. in 1934. There
was thus a margin of 1.6 p.c. between
the assumed and actual rate of earnings.
An extra £70,562 of new Life business
was put on the books:
1926. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Sum assured £1,356,663 £418,829 £516,393 £876,955
First pre-
miums . . 42,884 11,951 15,511 26,783
Renewal pre-
miums . . 234,961 231,026 200,982 196,531
Interest, etc. 68,410 113,133 115,533 126,688
Claims .. 51,156 202,881 196,661 194,564
Exes. .. 111,628 78,462 79,836 72,904
Excluding taxes and the amount written
off for depreciation and mortgage losses,
exes. (£62,884) took 26.9 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums as against 25.1 p.c. in ’34.
The increase was due to the growth in
new business, which is inevitably more
expensive to handle than old policies.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1926. 1934. 1935.
Public securities.. £639,474 £1,462,583 £1,449,932
Mortgages . . 521,155 695,565 653,496
Ixrans on policies,
etc ' 35,234 144,945 141,060
Book debts, cash,
etc 102,911 92,587 77,407
Equipment .. 16,302 7,730 8,124
Properties.. .. 198,270 509,214 591,125
Shares in other
cos 71,172 229,559 305,076
Tangible assets. £1,584;518 £3,142,183 £3,226,220
Sundry creditors.. 318,151 93,664 95,284
Net' tangibles .. £1,266,367 £3,048,519 £3,130,936
Assurance fund*.. 1,195,112 2,610,863 2,710,509
Paid capital .. 339,046 357,208 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks; £12,178,
1926; £12,942, 1933 ; £15,303, 1934; £16,411,
1935.
Public securities were reduced by £12,651,
mortgages by £42,069, loans on policies
by £3885, and book debts, cash, etc., by
£15,180. With the year’s revenue sur-
plus, the co. was thus able to add £81,911
net to the book value of properties, by
purchase of mortgage equities, and
£75,517 to the figure at which sharehold-
ings appear—£234,ls6 is invested in
bank, insurance and industrial scrip.
In Dec. the fully-paid pound shares
fetched 20s. 3d. on ’Change. Then, fol-
lowing alterations to the co.’s articles
which conflicted with Stock Exchange
regulations, the scrip was delisted.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 13,710 10 p.c. = 11,355 2,355 126,395
1926.. 13,778 10 „ „ 11,355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 „ „ 12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 „ „ 13,626 1,057 130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 „ „ 13,626 17 130 124
1930.. 11,394 11 „ „ 12,490 129^028
Unexplained additions to reserves, £30,000.. 159 028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159’,765
1932.. 14,522 12 „ „ 13,626 896 160,661
Unexplained additions to reserves, £20,000.. 180,661
1933.. 51,085 384tp.e.=43,716 7,369 188,030
1934.. 22,058 16 „ „ 18,168 3,890 191,920
1935.. 18,117 16 „ „ 18,168 191,869
tlncludes special cash bonus of 25 p.c.
It has been an extraordinary perform-
ance. Certainly the board put by more
than it distributed during the fat years ;
and extensive additions were made to
plant, paid for out of and then
substantially written down from the
same source, and at the close of last
accounts there was £191,869 of reserves
to visibly support and assist the £113,547
of share capital. While all these
factors could be expected to soften the
blow from falling prices, actually net
earnings over the last five years averaged
£24,029 as against £13,244 for the five
preceding ones. Over the same periods,
and including a special 25 p.c. cash
bonus sent out with the final div. in
1933, shareholders have averaged 18.9 p.c.
and 11.2 p.c. respectively. Further, the
visible growth in net tangibles over the
last decade amounts to £65,474.
Last year there was little change in
the Dominion’s shipments of lamb;
mutton exports increased. Though prices
fluctuated, they averaged out about the
same as the previous year’s. So Britain’s
quota restrictions on its lamb and mutton
imports did growers and freezers no
harm. After providing for “repairs, re-
newals, taxation and depreciation and
sundry contingencies,” this co.’s gross
earnings (£32,203) were £2685 lighter.
Exes. (£14,086) were up £1256, leaving
the net result (£18,117) £3941 lighter at
15.9 p.c. on capital, compared with 19.5,
44.9, 12.7, 12.6, 10, 12.9 and 11.2 p.c.
back to 1927. The div. was kept at
16 p.c.
The prefs. (26,160 of them) enjoy
priority as to capital and advance with
the ords. beyond 5 p.c. Both lots of
scrip are now steady around 78s. as
against 365. three years ago. At the
higher figure the return is 4.1 p.c. on a 16
p.c. div. basis.
During the year £42,980 more was
spent on fixed assets than was written off,
and the board hadn’t to go outside for
the money, either:
1924. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £113,539 £113,547 £113,547 £113,547
Liabilities . . 40,587 89,862 222,418 210,430
Works.'. .. 121,946 129,274 198,318 242,298
Stocks . . 22,861 63,582 60,645 36,276
Book debts,
cash, invest-
ments, etc. 139,037 177,130 278,573 246,356
Liabilities (down £11,988) include an un-
specified amount for contingencies. The
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£72,202) was £44,598, due to the
outlay on fixed assets.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 21,725 74 p.c. = 16,875 4850 29,182
1925.. 13,882 7 „ „ 16,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
1927.. 11,733 7 „ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 5 „ „ 11,250 15.038
1929.. 3,082 2}„ „ 5,625 12,490
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 1 s ..
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 ) oo.oui
Loss.
1930.. 8,199 Nil 75,000
1931.. 30,021* Nil 75,000
1932.. 16,474* Nil 75,000
1933.. 18,011* Nil 75,000
1934.. 37,662 Nil 112,662
1935.. 8,451 Nil 121,113
‘Debited to contingency reserve.
Difficult to say what the future holds for
this still ailing wholesale dry-goods
house ; it has wide connections in the
country, and its funds have been used
largely to carry stocks on clients’ shelves.
It never yielded much in the way of
profits. For the 10 generally fat years to
the end of 1929, the small reserves were
tapped for £21,324 to pay divs. averag-
ing 6.5 p.c. Then, owing to the plight
of wheat and other farmers, the small
storekeeper has had difficulty in meeting
the wholesaler’s bill in full, while the
growth of cash-and-carry and the chain
methods of retailing have kept margins
too narrow to support this co.’s costs,
including the cost of distribution. Trad-
ing has thus resulted in a loss for each
of the last half-dozen years, bad debts
have exceeded expectations and the Kent
and Clarence street properties have been
a drag.
Here is a more detailed view of what
has happened:—•
t — Losses
Property
Trading. Upkeep. Bad Debts, etc. Total.
1930.. £8.189 £10.226 £18.41:,
1931.. 8,642 £3,708 17,771 30,021
1932.. 5,579 3,223 7,672 16,474
1933.. 3,932 2,968 11,111 18,011
193 4.. 3,76 7 2,59 1 31,30 4 37,662
£30,010 £12,490 £78,084 £120,583
How last year’s loss of £8451 was made
up is not disclosed ; no further allow-
ance was made for bad debts, etc. Total
losses since 1929 amount to £129,034,
leaving £121,113 (10s. 9d. per share) ot
the capital unrepresented by tangibles in
the books at the end of 1935. The cur-
tain is kept drawn over the figures of
the subsidiary, Mitchell’s Factories, Ltd.,
which appears as investments in the
parent’s sheet.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1985.
Paid capital. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages, etc. 55,633 42,540 42,478 42,478
Overdraft . . 51,540 08,933 71,103 70,777
Sundry creditors 29,653 30,423 27,338 23,932
Freeholds .. 47,850 46,050 46,650 46,650
Plant .. 4,935 5,089 6,842 6,373
Stocks .. 78,175 69,000 52,419 49,276
Investments.. 22,398 28,491 29,191 29,788
Book debts. . 194,379 152,537* 118,026* 108,772*
Cash.. .. 8,159 75 188 213
•After deducting contingency reserve, etc.
The year’s contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£21,074, including
stocks but' not investments) was £B5BO,
making the slip £122,813 since 1930.
When surplus properties, said to be worth
more than their book value, can be sold,
the position may look a lot better; still,
unless trading becomes profitable, the co.
is in danger of hamstringing itself by
consumption of working capital.
On ’Change the scrip is offered at 45.,
without attracting buyers.
W. E. Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- He-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925.. .. 5,376 5 p.c. = 5 000 153 2 627
1926.. .. 6,562 5 „ „ 5000 1562 2,189
1927.. .. 7,387 5 „ „ 6000 2387 4,576
1928.. .. 7,027 5 „ „ 5000 2027 6,603
1929.. .. 7,092 5 „ ~ 5000 2092 8.69.5
1930.. .. 4,284 Nil 4284 12,979
Loss.
1931.. .. 8,767 Nil 4,212
Deficit.
1932.. .. 4,963 Nil 751
1933.. .. 350 Nil 1,107
Profit. Reserves.
1934.. .. 7,034 Nil 7034 5,927
1935.. ~ 5,944 2J p.c. = 2500 3444 9,371
When the public became interested in
1911, the old proprietor, W. E. Smith,
quitted the business. Four years later
two-fifths (£30,000) of the capital was
jettisoned. Then, when money was being
carelessly scattered at the end of the
war, things looked so rosy that the
written-off capital was restored and a
further £25,000 of bonus scrip was issued
as well, assets being revalued for the
purpose. Paid capital thus leaped from
£45,000 to £lOO,OOO, at which figure it
still stands.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1929, divs. averaged 5.5 p.c., equal
to 12.2 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the writing up. Slump, competition, ex-
change and primage made the business
unprofitable, and the next five years were
dry ones for shareholders. One problem
has been to get overhead back; the
specialty house and small job-printer
can nearly always quote a bit less than
the general stationer.
Profits re-emerged in ’34. Turnover
continued to expand during the last term,
when the improvement in gross earnings
(£38,267) was £2200, making the spring
£15,716 over the last four years. Exes.
(£32,323) were up £3290, leaving the net
result £lO9O lighter at 5.9 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 7 p.c. in ’34, when no
provision worth mentioning was made
for taxation, whereas £1332 was so set
(Continued from page 18.)


im
X
Dehind this name lies a.
Dehind the Secret lies
reason tor" Three Threes
ue Succds
m
laare
■i
r
1
secret
■ long ago when it was
by the famous English
Tobacco House of Ardath, the secret of
the 333 s blend has been used only
for 333's Cigarettes.
Uniq
CINCE 1
* disco
jr
perb
irgmtan
§fl
'
NH
% •
&
<S>
a
I
*
VS
exclusive formula, which produces
blending of the finest of pure
tobaccos, has grown more
more celebrated with the years.
Every day thousands of additional
smokers are realising that only in
333's Cigarettes can this delightful
blend be obtained. It is this that
accounts for the fact that wherever
you go you find smart smokers insisting
on getting State Express 333 s
Cigarettes.
TATEVXPRESS
100% PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
k
CIGARETTES
AS
pm@Pf&s S
j *~'Ga.ret
rsrs
333
Abio/oWc Un
f# co/f K
r 'f>P£D/t
$V>
j&J&Z *****
7*
C°
•*- c
Wl’


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-SI.
’URCHASERS AND REIINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates Silver Sliver nrea
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates'
PRODU P CERS Pe OF yan 9 SlagS ’ flnd ° f all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone)
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.-Graphlne, Plastic, Babbit other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulte or Buyers’ own specifications
PRINTERS’ METALS. Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printlrs’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
A harmonium player of Leicester,
When the zest of Schweppes Tonic posseicester.
Used to stand up and beat
On the keys with her feet
Till the Vicar and Sidesmen suppreicester
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone; 84356.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Gi iffith, Hassel and Griffith* Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, . Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—^Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICFS!
r | 1 ,v ;
at
Extensively used by Prospectors ami
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete 1-Oln.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour.
Consumption '.. Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Snring Street. Sydney.
aside last year. Shareholders got into
the picture again with p.c. Prospects
of a bit better showing at next balance
are encouraging.
The more or less liquid surplus, which
dropped from £67,844 in ’23 to £11,471
in 32, was £28,081 (up £8196) at the close
of last accounts:
1923. 1932. 1934. 1935.
.. •• £50,577 £44,125 £50,286 £58,239
Book debts, etc. .. 22,245 16,767 21,758 19,544
cash .. .. 4)942 1,005 759 880
Liabilities..
Debentures and mortgages were un-
changed at £21,500 and £16,600 respec-
tively. The floating debt consisted of
£8534 (down £5B) coming to sundry
creditors and an overdraft of £3948
(down £1278). The freehold, in George-
street, opposite Wynyard Station, figures
at £48,755 (down £400), and plant at
£36,369 (down £519); much depends
upon the efficiency of the plant.
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 21s. 10d., at 10s. 10d., at which
figure the return is 4.6 p.c, on a 2\ p.c.
div. basis.
.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
TU 4 . ~ . .
Three corporate bodies exist in con-
nection with forestry bonds sold by N.Z.
rp f“ a , F . ores f ts ’ Ltd.-the bond-selling
co., the trustee for the bondholders (Aus-
tialasian Forestry Bond Trust Co.) and
the recently-formed realisation co. (N.Z.
F ° r f£ t Pr °ducts) Briefly, the functions
ot the bond-selling co. are to acquire
land, plant trees thereon, tend, maintain
and bring to maturity the forests thus
created, and then hand them over to the
forest owners or their representative.
Chief duties of the trustee are (1) to see
that the bond-selling co. carries out its
contract, (2) to hold and invest the main-
tenance fund (this is held on trust; it
belongs to the bond-selling co., which put
up the monev as a guarantee for main-
* / / diucc main
tenance, etc.), and (3) generally to see
out its contract to date, and that finan-
cially it is in a position to continue to
do so. Further, the two bodies have co-
operated in preliminary preparations for
realisation of the forests. These preli-
minaries include a topographical survey,
a report by W. A. McLaren, of Van-
couver, an expert forest engineer, and
recently the purchase of a 20-ton-a-day
pilot sulphate paper-and-pulp-making
P^ ant ; The trustee co. now stands in sub-
staatially the same relationship to the
u *f£ tion CO- as it; P rev iously did to
bondholders. The need for its existence,
therefore, appears to be limited.
, The realisation co., whose future
Pr °|? lemS ’ £ no * th ?
most important one from the bond-
holders’ point of view. It has its roots
in special Maoriland legislation the
Companies (Bondholders’ Incorporation)
Act—designed to protect bondholders,
The co. was formed at the end of 1935
on application by the trustee Nominal
capital is £11,000,000 in 170 000 £3O
shares and 5,900,000 £1 shares. The
170,000 shares are to be issued, one in
exchange for each bond. Later on, when
it is decided in what form or forms the
forest products are to be marketed, pref-
erence shares are to be offered, first to
those on the co.’s register—the amount
spoken of is £l,7oo,ooo—for the purposes
of financing erection of plant and of
creating a selling organisation, etc.
Before that stage is reached, the co.,
after its statutory meeting on March 23,
will make application to the commission
administering the Act to adjust equitably
the rights of members among themselves ;
the various planted areas vary in value
according to age. Bondholders’ interests
NEW OCCIDENTAL AND
MELBOURNE INVESTORS’ GUIDE,
PAGE 38.
in this respect will thus be watched by
an independent Government body
created for the purpose.
As for voting power, each pound of
capital will carry one vote. The number
of £3O shares to be issued to the bond-
selling co. in respect of surplus planted
areas has not been mentioned, but it
is unlikely to be much in excess of
20,000. It is plain, therefore, that con-
trol of the business will be in the hands
of bondholders, provided they exercise
their votes. Four provisional direc-
tors have been appointed: H. E. P.
Bracey, R. D. Kennedy, W. Fraser and
H. Langdon Smith. The first two are
trustees for the bondholders. The co.’s
articles provide for the appointment of
not fewer than six or more than 10 direc-
tors, who are to be elected at the statu-
tory meeting. The names of additional
candidates have not yet been announced.
Since all bonds are now vested in the
new co. it virtually becomes the bond-
holder, to which the bond-selling co. re-
mains responsible for maintenance, etc.
Should the new co. decide to take over
and carry out maintenance itself, N.Z.
Perpetual Forests will have to hand over
the balance of the maintenance fund, or
so much more or less as may be agreed
upon.
Shareholders who desire to be excluded
from the new co. should apply in writing
to the commission not later than June 21
next. They will be placed as nearly as pos-
sible in the same position as they would
have been if the new co. had not been in-
corporated. No provision will be made
for the harvesting of trees beyond what
these individual bondholders can arrange
among themselves. Withdrawal has no-
thing to recommend it; indeed, it may
create complications that would jeopar-
dise the whole venture, the future of
which is already uncertain enough.
Lake View and Star earned a working
profit of £138,755 for the last quarter of
1935. In all 146,212 tons of ore and
144,217 tons of old tailings were treated
for a return of bullion worth £319,847
in Australian currency. Chief points of
interest in the co.’s latest progress report
are (1) intersection by the drill at 166 ft.
below No. 12 level in Hannan’s Star of
a 14ft. lode, assaying 6dwt. per ton, (2)
good values at depth in Chaffers work-
ings.
* * * *
For the year to Nov. 30 last Ingliston
South Gold Development, Meekatharra
(W.A.), mined and milled 4505 tons of
ore (head value 21.08dwt.) for 38270 z.
bullion, a recovery of 16.98dwt. ; also
1699 tons was cyanided for 2610 z. fine,
an average of 3.07dwt., with o.77dwt. in
the residue. The lot was worth £33,480,
of which £16,601 was profit. That was
after charging £10,517 spent on develop-
ment against capital (£40,875, of which
£28,250 was cash). The mine cost £31,500
(£20,000 of it paid in cash); plant figures
at £5574; buildings, £2534; cash and
bullion, £11,281. There was £3930 com-
ing to creditors. Dividends are expected
to flow when the development pro-
gramme now in hand is complete; it
includes driving on the 228 ft. and 400 ft.
levels and deepening the main shaft to
500 ft. The diamond drill has disclosed
6|dwt. ore (core assay) at 654 ft. and
722 ft. The ore-bodies consist of narrow
but rich interlacing leaders genetically
associated with an albiet porphyry dyke.
Erection of a joint treatment plant, to
handle this co.’s ore and that from the
adjoining Meekatharra Central, also man-
aged by Australian Mining Trust, is
under consideration.
Meekatharra Central (paid capital
£47,000), which took over the Lady Cen-
tral, Meekatharra (W.A.), for £27,046
(£9500 cash and the balance in f.-p. ss.
shares), is still in the development stage.
At Aug. 31 last development had cost
£11,122 net; plant figured at £3431;
debtors, £3274 ; cash and bullion, £2599.
There was £472 coming to creditors. The
2593 tons of 7.24dwt. ore raised yielded
6530 z. gold by amalgamation, with
2.2ldwt. in the tailings. The main shaft
(now down 244 ft.) on the Eastern lode
is being deepened to 300 ft., where a cross-
cut will be put out to the West lode,
which is to be driven on to connect with
the winzes from the 200 ft. level there. At
the southern end of the leases there
appears to be a good chance of opening
up a block of payable ore 350 ft. long
and between 30ft. and 40ft. wide; this
would be equivalent to 400 tons of ore
per foot of depth. Also, between the
200 ft. and 300 ft. levels, the larger cross
veins look like providing an extra 12,000
tons of pay-ore. It is expected to com-
plete the development programme about
the middle of this year.
* * * *
Developments at the northern end of
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) are creating interest,
and hopes are entertained that “big
things” will be found at depth. Similar
hopes have been expressed again and
again in the past, but nothing worth
blowing about has been discovered to
date. There is talk of groups embracing
the old Hidden Secret, Brownhill Junc-
tion and other leases being floated in
London. London is now better informed
than it used to be.
* * * *
Mt. Bowie (W.A.) asks shareholders to
listen-in to a new financial proposal. The
co. purchased a small show near Nan-
nine about a year ago, then abandoned
it, and put £lO,OOO into shares in Mt.
Ida Gold Mines, north of Menzies. The
board now announces that, if develop-
ments warrant, shareholders may be in-
vited next month to subscribe for an
additional 70,000 shares at Is. 6d. each,
and to authorise the co. to buy a further
10,000 Mt. Idas with the proceeds.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Options has decided
to erect a small mill on the Three Boys,
Southern Cross (W.A.). Prospects are
fair in shallow ground, but the chance
of the shoot living at depth is doubtful.
The co. was formed at the peak of the
Yellowdine boom, and took options over
several areas there, but abandoned them
when the day came to put up the cash
to complete the deal. Later it bought the
Three Boys.
* * * *
Hill 50, one of a number of small
Westralian goldmining ventures which
have given shareholders financial pains
and aches, states that development has
ceased so that all hands and the cook
may assist in plant-erection. Ample ore
reserves are said to be in sight, and the
directors are confident that the mine will
become a permanent and consistent pro-
ducer. Others are not so confident.


NO MAN COULD PUT UP WITH THAT.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Talepitcher”: The annual yarn about
the snake which swallows its family on
the approach of danger has been fore-
stalled this year in the press by a centi-
pede at Yass (N.S.W.) which was seen
to perform the feat by various local resi-
dents. As the report says the centipede
was “about” three inches long, and that
her brood of 20 were each half an inch
in length, I must leave it to a mathe-
matician to compute the lady’s cubic
capacity. To the layman it would seem
that she stowed away 10 linear inches of
offspring in a space three inches long and
of small capacity otherwise. It has been
very thirsty weather out Yass way.
* * . * *
“Dungeness”: A snake played a dirty
trick on a Bowen (N.Q.) man recently.
Whilst he was driving a car the wily
reptile, which evidently had been jump-
ing the rattler on the underworks, de-
cided that it would be more comfortable
inside,, and came up suddenly through
the floor boards. Up that way in
summer we find it pleasanter to drive
without boots for coolness’ sake. The
motorist removed his unprotected feet to
a safer place than the pedals, the car
crashed into a tree, and the driver be-
came a hospital case. The snake escaped.
“Wagga”: Is there anything in the
idea that after being bitten by a snake
the victim has a recurrence of the accom-
panying sensations every year at the
same time? A friend who underwent the
experience swears he suffers from snake-
bite dopiness whenever the corresponding
period comes round annually.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: We were arguing the
toss about the best method of robbing a
hive. Tannedhide was in favor of fell-
ing the tree, Jacky wanted to climb tip
with a veil on, while I stuck out for
the tobacco method. To clinch it, we
went out to one of Jacky’s pet hives.
I shinned up, plastered the entrance with
mud, inserted a straw, and puffed half
an ounce of weed through. We panned
out a kero.-tin without a sting. Jacky
cadged some tobacco to try his luck at
another hive. Up he went, sealed the bowl
of his pipe in the'entrance with mud, and
had an enjoyable smoke. At the ap-
pointed time he broke in the retaining
wall, and then those infuriated but far-
from-asphyxiated bees took to him in
an endless swarm. Who was it that
reckoned you only had to let an abo.
see a thing to secure an imitation perfect
in every detail?
* * * *
“Dun Dhu”: Scottish shepherds have
a better eye to comfort at shearing-time
than “Wool Away’s” Yorkshiremen (B.
5/2/’36). For the barbering process a
three-legged triangular stool is used. In
place of a seat, the top is left open, the
legs being connected by three battens,
and in this cradle the southern end of
the sheep is placed. The shearer straddles
one corner of the stool and leisurely
snicks away at the protesting patient’s
fleece with an ancient pair of blades,
carrying on a steady confab with his
mates similarly employed the while.
There were genuine awe and reverence in
their tones when they spoke of Big
Angus McPhail, who had shorn 45 sheep
in one day with his own hands. Young
then, I casually mentioned that I had
seen a man barber 120 at home.
The circle gave me one long, reproach-
ful look, and for the next hour their
conversation was carried on in Gaelic.
* * * *
“Mug Pirate”; Consider the woes of
the stubble quail. No species of
fowl suffers mishaps from more varied
causes than does this little brown
chook of the grasslands. Apart from
guns, preying birds and animals, rep-
tiles, fire and flood, its eggs and
nestlings are churned into the ground by
farm machinery and trampling live-
stock, while thousands are slaughtered
annually by becoming involved in the
works of binders and harvesters in the
croplands. About the only calamity the
stubble quail has an excellent chance of
dodging is senile decay.
* * * *
“Arbor”: Soundness of Burma teak
logs after decades in a river-bed does not
prove durability, as assumed by “Jungle-
wallah” (B. 22/l/’36). Decay cannot
proceed in the absence of air: conse-
quently, wood which is completely sub-
merged under water or buried in con-
“ When I first met her, Dr. Chlorodyne, she hadn't a stitch to her back."
tinually soaked soil will not decay. The
despised white gum is being used exten-
sively for foundation-piles for the new
building being erected for the C.S.I.R. on
waterlogged soil in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Eirrod”: I have a cattle-bitch that
puts in her spare time killing snakes.
Though often bitten, she has never shown
any ill-effects. Whether this is due to
the immediate addition of soap to her
diet has me puzzled. The other day
she bogged into half a cake of Sunlight
after a bite from a red-bellied black.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Does any Aboliar
know what bird, reptile or insect is the
arch-enemy of the black-and-tan ground-
wasp? The other day I watched one
work in feverish haste for over a quarter
of an hour, filling in and camouflaging
the hole that serves as a nest. The first
part of the contract proved compara-
tively easy; but the final touch took
much mental and physical effort. After
the hole was filled with earth, she col-
lected all the available material, such as
small twigs, grass blades, small stones,
etc. (a wooden match thrown down was
found most acceptable), within a radius
of about six inches to the covered-in
nest, and arranged them to suit her
fancy. She then buzzed up to a branch
about two feet above the nest and cast
her critical eye over her handiwork. It
proved unsatisfactory. Down she dropped
to rearrange it. Again and again she
went through the same procedure, until,
finally satisfied, she departed—no doubt
for a well-earned drink and rest. The
enemy that could discover the finished
nest must surely be the Sherlock Holmes
of the back country.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Dr. Donald Thomp-
son, who spent seven months with the
natives in Arnhem Land, states definitely
that the country in which Caledon and
Blue Mud bays lie is safe for whites. He
has made a pact with Wongor, a chief
who wields enormous influence among
the tribes in those parts; this abo. pro-
mised to be responsible for peace being
maintained. Incidentally, the doctor lay
stricken with fever in a blackfellows’
camp, and was thus an easy mark for
any native murderously inclined. He was
treated with every kindness. How
much longer are we to hear these people
branded as murderers and thieves?
* * * *
“Nagheer”: There once were goats on
Raine Island (B. 12/2/’36) —left there for
the use of shipwrecked sailors after the
completion of the tower by H.M.S. Fly
in September, 1844. The shipwrecked
crew of the Enchantress brig ate some of
them in 1850, and the second mate
wanted to remain there, farming the
goats for sale to passing ships. But he’d
been getting at the medical comforts.
The tower is 40 feet high, 30 feet in
diameter at the base, with walls sft.
thick, and its top stands 70 feet above
low-water mark. It was designed by the
carpenter of the Fly, and built by a party
of convicts brought from Sydney. Build-
ing water (brackish) was got from wells,
and timber from the wreck of the Martha
Ridgeway, 25 miles to the south. The
stone was quarried on the island, and
the lime for mortar obtained by burning
clam shells. The tower is now the fortress
of the frigate-bird section of the winged
inhabitants, or was when I last saw it.
* * * *
“Mick o’ Mulga”: Big Tim was the
bully of the construction camp, and his
specialty was cook-baiting ; in the space
of five weeks three cooks cleared out
owing to his finding fault with every-
thing. The fourth cook arrived late at
night. Next morning, when Tim took his
seat at the head of the mess-room table
he announced gleefully “The new cook’s
a Chow. Now we’ll have some real
fun.” He then turned and bellowed in
the direction of the cookhouse “Come
to light with the breakfast, you
yellow heathen, or I’ll come and”
Just then the cookhouse door opened
and a six-foot Oriental, his sleeveless
singlet revealing massive shoulders and
arms like a wrestler’s, strode purpose-
fully in. Disregarding everyone else, he
fixed Tim with his eyes, banged three
piled dishes under the bully’s nose, and
said very distinctly “That chop, that
steak, that sausagee. And suppose you
no likee. Well, I no care, you see?”
He finished by glaring around the table,
and then stalked out. Tim rolled his
knot and walked off the job as soon as
breakfast was over ; he said he wasn’t
going to be poisoned if coots were.
* * * *
“80P”: The horsetailer drew his money
and let a barber clean him up before
he knocked the top off his cheque at the
pub. “How’s the razor?” inquired the
owner of the implement. “N.t.b.!” “I
should think not. It’s a Plum!” He
brandished it proudly. Bill laughed
under the lather. “Last barber 1 ’ad
must’ve got ’ees fruit mixed. More like
a pineapple ’is razor was.”
* * * *
“Another Golden Miler”: I wonder
just how far away from the anvil
“Golden Mile” was when he saw the
plug of gelignite hit with a sledge-
hammer (B. 11/12/’35). He must have
been the victim of some practical joker.
“Jelly” is quite safe when subjected to a
mere bump, but give a sharp knock and it
will soon display its latent power. Men
employed on the conveyor belt between
the gyratory crusher and the Symmonds
crushing bank on the Wiluna goldmines
are paid special rates, over and above
wages, for every pound of stray gelignite
they pick off the belt. I have had six
months’ growth frightened out of me,
standing alongside the gyratory crusher,
when a piece of gelignite does not get
through.
* * * #
“Avis”: The Australian’s reputation
for making the best of a bad job was
enhanced as the result of an accident to
the West of England express recently.
When the rescuers were combing the
wreckage for casualties one of them
heard a peculiar sound from the front of
the engine. Search showed it to be the
twittering of a bunch of budgerigars
which had been travelling by the train.
Their cage had been broken, and, it be-
ing a bitterly cold night, the lot had
gone forward to the still-warm engine
and perched on one of the steampipes.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Pulling up the river, I
came on a flat rock by the water’s edge
littered with fishbones, the carapaces of
small crabs and, here and there, a mussel
shell and the feathers of a small bird. It
explained why my set lines of the night
before had mysteriously come ashore—
one had even inserted itself for several
feet into a hole under the bank. A lady
and/or gentleman known to scientific
folk as Hydromys chrysogaster, the Aus-
tralian water-rat, was the raider. Inter-
esting folk they are ; giants among rats,
sometimes 20 inches from pointed muzzle
to the white tip of the particolored tail,
gallant fighters, they cover all riverine
Australia. It' is a pleasure to watch a
water-rat hunting—the lithe, sinuous
body slips through the water in a series
of powerful drives, the long tail acting
as rudder or brake at will. Of late
years they have become rarer —some
disease appears to have spread among
them.
* * * *
“Pick”: Harder to unloose than a
beer-sparrer’s clutch on the handle of
your pewter mug is a possum’s tail-grip
on the branch of a tree. In Garland
Gully (Maclaughlin River, N.S.W.), shot
from the uppermost reach of a lofty
ribbon-gum, one furry victim in falling
grasped the twig with his prehensile rud-
der. When I revisited the place two years
later the dried carcass still swung from
the elevated limb.
* * * *
“Incubator”: Very little is known
about the nesting habits of the fresh-
water crayfish, but a Queensland
naturalist has made a discovery of con-
siderable interest. This was a crayfish
with some 50 youngsters clinging to its
body where the eggs are generally found
in crayfish and lobsters. The crayfish is
a tasty morsel, and a vista of a crayfish-
farm opens at once. Crays would be
much cleaner than fowls, and would feed
themselves. The financial side appeals,
also. Say each lady cray had 50 young-
sters at a sitting, and these were ready
for breeding at the end of the same year,
in no time the stock on the run would
number many thousands. At threepence
each —a reasonable estimate —10,000
crays for the first season would mean
£125. A friend who has gone into the
matter with me reckons that at the end
of ten years a careful cray-farmer would
make close on £lOO,OOO, especially if he
could evolve a breed that could do with-
out water.
OUT BARDOC WAY.
There’s a good thing going out Bardoc way;
Jive just been getting the strength of it
From Jimmy, who holds it, and 1 should say
There’s a chance out there to pocket a bit.
The way he puts it is (you can grin,
But don’t start grinning when he’s about)
It’s only a matter of putting in,
And then a matter of taking out.
It isn’t a new thing, he admits;
Others have held it, and let it go.
But, as Jimmy told me, you need your wits
When you are working that kind of show.
For it’s full of tricks, and you’ve got to be
Up to them all, or else break your heart.
But the only obstacle he can see
Is the bit of cash it needs for a start.
There are some who’ll tell you the claim is
done,
And put it down among hopeless shows,
But of all who’ve worked her there wasn’t
one
Who knew as much as old Jimmy knows.
He can tell you just why they all went smash,
And he knows just where to pick up the
shoot;
So a man’s who’s game to put in some cash
Must get it back, with a punch to boot.
Well, I don’t like turning old Jimmy down,
And I won’t blame him for feeling sore,
But he might find somebody round the town
Who hasn’t listened to him before.
I hate to be knocking him back to-day
When he so kindly has let me know
Of the good thing going out Bardoc way,
But I’m afraid —it will have to go.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Fi. Fa.”: Gentlemen with a taste for
stoush should note a recent case at Laid-
ley (S.Q.), where the defendant had said
to the plaintiff: “Get out of the sulky
and I’ll fight you.” The plaintiff main-
tained that these were threatening words,
but the magistrate ruled that they con-
stituted an invitation, not a threat. He
pointed out that if the defendant had
said: “If you don’t get out of your
sulky” or “I will do so and so” it would
have been a different matter. Dismissed ;
costs against complainant. The deci-
sion should do much to improve the
amenities of rural life. Instead of such
coarsenesses as “You flamin’ blankard,
I’ll hang yer (highly-colored small-
goods) on that there fence,” country-
town streets on Saturday nights will hear
courtly invitations such as: “Prithee, sir,
alight, that we may bicker awhile con-
cerning the matter of that underweight
pig you traded for the fair and buxom
fowls of my lady wife.” Per . . . haps.
* * * *
“A.N.S.”: Dashing from his shop when
a lull in the storm permitted, a Maule’s
Creek (N.S.W.) station blacksmith had
a pair of horseshoes snapped from his
hand. Picking them up a few seconds
later, he thanked his lucky stars for the
advent of rubber boots. It took quite
a wrench to part the irons, one of which,
now a perfect magnet, has earned a place
on the wall as a curio. That’s one of
the things lightning can do.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Talking of mixed bags (B.
29/i/’36) reminds me of a day’s catch
in a line of neck snares on King Island.
Set with springers, they were intended
for kangaroos, but wallabies, ringtails
and brush possums were nearly always
included in the catch. One morning I
found in addition to these a hen pheasant
suspended by its leg, and a little further
on, where a wallaby pad crossed a creek,
a platypus strung up by its middle. But
I received a bigger shock when I was
confronted with a 6ft. 6in. tiger-snake
that had become simultaneously caught
at both ends by two snares, and had
assumed a taut horizontal position, with
‘a solemn-looking black jay perched in
the centre. A little stretched? Well,
yes—the snake, perhaps.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: North of Cairns (Q.)
there is a breed of ants that Morse-
signal by knocking the ground with their
heads. No, you’re wrong; there’s no
pub for miles. This fellow is a
fraction bigger than a sugar-ant.
Of a night a scout will nefari-
ously appear on my desk, spot
an appetising insect killed by
the lamp, and bang the table
five times to summon a fatigue-
party. The tapping- is exactly
like that' made with the point of
a pencil. I have sometimes
tricked them into answering my
pencil-point; but when the fatigue begins
nonchalantly hauling a moth across my
writing-pad I am more often actuated
by murder.
* * * *
“Fore Royal”: In their judgment of
Australia’s best-flavored fish both “Bray
Rock” (B. 1/1 /’36) and “Ned Kelly” (B.
29/1 /’36) err on the same point—they
desire their fish cooked in a particular
way and served with specified sauces,
etc. As “plain” fish the black rock-cod
—given a miss by “8.R.” and classed as
an “also-ran” by “N.K.” —is the best of
them all. Boiled, baked, fried—in fact,
cooked by any method—this fish re-
tains its delicate flavor, and, though the
flesh is juicy and white, it is never “soft.”
Another advantage is that it does not
matter whether the fish weighs 51b. or
501 b.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Joe’s vision of
Henry VIII. and Satan (B. 15/1/ ’36) re-
calls a delicate encounter. Was camped
“ They reckon ’e thinks up all 'ees plots w'ile 'e's ’aulin the fish in."
"Then 'ell 'ave t' make this a short story."
on the Lachlan, near Forbes (N.S.W.),
and after dark made my way into the
town. When about half-way over the
bridge a figure loomed out of the gloom.
It was clad in furs, its head and nether
limbs being bare, except for fur mocca-
sins on the feet, and it carried a sledge-
hammer. Convincing myself, with diffi-
culty, that I hadn’t slipped back into
pre-Neolithic times, and with a wary eye
on the hammer, I essayed a tentative
greeting. A boyish tenor responded
courteously ; he was on his way to a
school pageant at which he was to repre-
sent Thor.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: After dutifully laughing
at “M. Pirate’s” bubbling humor (B.
15/1/ ’36), one had to pity him. To com-
pare cod, and Murray cod, tastiest of all
fresh-water fish, with mud!
* * * *
“Cane Stick”: Apparently frogs like
joyriding. I have seen them cling to
the bonnet of a car and stay there for
“I want to catch the train to the city."
"Well, if you like to chase it to Johnson's farm y might get it. Driver
always pulls up there f'r a few minutes to see his sheilah."
eight or ten miles without appearing at
all disturbed. One perched up on the
bar of my bike one night when I left
it up against a gatepost. Froggie hung
on for the whole of the four-mile ride
home and seemed to enjoy it.
* * * *
“F. of F.”: Dad, finding that a huge
log was not yielding to wedges or cross-
cut saw, decided to experiment with
explosives for the first time. He bored
a hole, rammed in a small stick of gelig-
nite, lit the fuse and stood back to watch
the effect. A sudden swoosh, and smoke
and chips flew from both ends of the
log. A hurtling projectile caught dad
about the waistline. He gave a piercing
yell, then looked down at the ground as
if expecting to see there his shattered
entrails; then taking up the twitching
wild cat that had hit him, he savagely
wrung its neck.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: A farmer of Launching
Place (Vic.) claims to have the best and
most novel plough team in Australia. It
comprises six big working bullocks, and
they make a picturesque sight as they
pull a six-furrow plough around the pad-
docks. Their owner uses them for every
kind of job that a horse could do—
except as hacks —and claims they are
stronger workers and cheaper to feed.
* # * *
, “O. W. Waireki”: I shared a room at
a city hotel with Hone, an outback shep-
herd. His bed looked as comfortable as
mine, yet he seemed unable to rest, toss-
ing and turning about so much that I
at last inquired what was troubling him.
“Ho,” he sighed ; “I can’t ket to sleep—
t’ere’s no fleas in te bed.”
* * * *
“Ex-’rooer”: I have to thank friend
fox for helping me get some wild ducks.
As I did not have my dog, 1 was waiting
behind some bushes for the birds to
swim within bagging distance. A fox
came trotting along with his eyes on the
birds. He threw himself down on the edge
of the swamp and started rolling about on
his back. The ducks spotted him, and,
apparently overcome by curiosity,
hastened their pace. When they were
close enough I fired and secured all I
wanted, but that fox broke all records
in hitting the scrub.
* * * *
“Pozzy” (Paris): Curator Le Soeuf, of
Sydney’s Taronga Park, advocated years
ago the introduction of vultures into Aus-
tralia. I saw thousands of sheep and
cattle rotting in the sun which would
have been cleaned up very expeditiously
by the old vulture, to the dismay of the
millions of blowflies that prospered at
that time. The clean job carried out by
the vultures at Malabar Hill, near Bom-
bay, is very familiar to Australian
travellers on P. and O. ships.
* * * *
“C. for Luck”: I hand the bun for
patience and persistence to the laughing
jackass. My windmill tank is anchored
by stout wires, and Jacko—a hoary-
looking old-timer —was returning to the
box-tree after salvaging a couple of feet
of entrails from the killing-yard. This
caught in the wire and, being wet, clung.
Kooka sat back in the breeching on
the stand and hauled and pulled at that
bit of tubing. After an hour and a half’s
unavailing effort, a dishevelled and
furious bird reeled away.
* * * *
“Willum John”: As “H.Mc.” says (B.
15/1/’36), horses accustom themselves to
the conditions of the country they are
bred in. Years ago, when there
was only one road worth men-
tioning (and that only men-
tioned with curses) in the Otway
Forest (Vic.), I noticed that
horses bred in that very hilly
region were as surefooted as
mountain goats when ascending
or descending their native hills.
But when taken to level coun-
try they were absolutely useless for
riding, as they stumbled and fell on the
flat.
* * * *
“Woman Listener”: While waiting
for a tram in Brisbane, I uncon-
sciously listened to a drover’s story.
Though only 9\ minutes elapsed, I fol-
lowed those 2000 bullocks for many
miles and heard the Australian adjective
used 59 times. He was three days from
water, and on the second day rested
them till sundown, started off again and
did 57£ miles that night. When the
beasts smelt water he had to go like
steam to head them to it, and put up
scares —white paper on branches, old
shirts, etc. —“and it was three days
before they would go into that water.”
Only three showed signs of wear and
tear, so perhaps it was as well that my
tram came along before a mere woman
questioned his veracity.
* * * *
“Spud”: Outside Fremantle harbor I
noticed several sharks from four to ten
feet in length doing battle with an out-
size in stingrays. The ’ray was putting
up a gallant fight, but weight of numbers
was against him. Still, he badly
lacerated the hides of several of the man-
eaters before they practically tore him
in halves. Then, the prey defunct, the
sharks commenced a battle among them-
selves for the pieces.
* * * *
“3o”: How many Abo-fish-liars
know the secret of the leatherjacket’s
ability to raise the dangerous spike on
his back and keep it up? The weapon
works in a slot, as it were; immedi-
ately behind it, and covered
in a sort of muscle, is a small
bone. When danger
threatens, the muscle con-
tracts and draws the bone
along the slot to the base of
the elevated spike, which is
thus locked. When the time
of tension is past, the muscle becomes
flaccid again, and the spike is lowered.
* * * *
“Malotus”: Recently spent a night at
an old bush pub about forty miles out
from Albury (N.S.W.). The most enter-
taining features of the establishment were
the notices ; they were everywhere. Here
are a few:
Anyone found in bed with his boots on
will be severely spoken to.
Dogs found in beds will be taken out
and shot.
Jewelry, money, bikes, saddles, guns and
other valuables kept under pillers should
be handed over to the proprietor for safe-
keeping.
Lighting pipes with our wallpaper is
forbidden.
Leave the housemaid alone.
Coves who spit on the floor will be delt
with proper.
Bad language strictly forbidden on
Sundays.
Two-up mustn’t be played on the bil-
liard table.
* * * *
“Hamer”: My window gives a grand-
stand view of the constant bullying of a
cat by two merry willie-wagtails. When
they get the big feline on a fence or a
small shed-top they flutter about his
head, alight on his back, and generally
make nuisances of themselves; some-
times they are busy together, but usually
they work in relays. There is no peck-
ing and no retaliation ; the cat’s attitude
suggests that he has tried to catch his
tormentors and has learnt the futility
of the attempts. My theory is that the
cat killed one of the fledglings of the
daring pair and they have sworn eternal
vengeance.
BALLADE OF BUSH COMFORT.
It may not be a workmanlike creation,
It wouldn’t get a real tradesman’s praise,
And only on some outback farm or station,
On hill or plain, where struggling cockies
raise
Their wheat, or where the cows and jum-
bucks graze,
You'll find this restful boon, the worse for
wear;
And there you’d learn, perhaps to your
amaze,
The comfort of a bag-and-sapling chair.
Without regard for rule or calculation,
Just knocked together in the crudest ways,
What odds should it possess an inclination
To yaw, or if, when sat upon, it sways?
“It’s not too flash, but it’ll do,” mum says;
And when on those occasions, all too rare,
She gets the time to have a dinkum laze
She makes for that old bag-and-sapling chair.
When dad prepares for serious cogitation,
As his bucolic problems he surveys,
Or in those moments of his relaxation
Before the log fire’s leaping, cheerful blaze,
When with the youngest kid he sometimes
plays,
The while the nipper’s pulling at his hair.
He’ll kick his boots off, then indulge his
craze
Of lolling in the bag-and-sapling chair.
Envoi.
In outback settlers’ lives there’s much vexation,
When Nature frowns there’s naught to do
but swear;
Still, they’ve one comfort for their delcctalion,
A good old soogcc-bag-and-sapling chair.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HITS
LYS
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
LYSAGHT’S
Wire Netting Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
fi HMtein
m
mm
m
0m
m
■-
VO
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Sheep and Skeleton Weed.
“The 0.D.”: Keep about 200 tons of
good oaten hay in reserve and run more
sheep than necessary. Make provision to
give the sheep about lib. per head a
day of good oaten chaff.
At present prices, 10s. worth of wool
per head is a reasonable return to expect
from four- to six-tooth merino wethers
fairly well-bred. Stock heavily to graze
your skeleton weed and feed the sheep
on the chaff ration. This supplementary
feeding can go on for months at a time
at 11b. per head.
Adequate equipment is necessary.
Aillow 9in. of trough per sheep—looo
'•heep, 750 ft. of trough. Give well-cut,
gooa oaten chaff at dawn every day.
Make the sheep used to a man among
them. Calm feeding is important.
Seeding time is almost here. Sow
early-maturing wheat so that harvest-
ing can be completed before s.w. ripens
to seed. In the recent harvest period,
s.w. ripened early, and growers waiting
for Nabaw and Dundee found the weed
flowering as they stripped.
As soon as the wheat is off, pack 10
sheep to the acre on the paddock, and
give them the oaten chaff ration. They’ll
stop s.w. from seeding and return good
profit.
In the s.w. country a 640-acre wheat
farm could grow 200 tons of hay, run
2000 sheep all the year, cut £lOOO worth
of wool, in addition to wheat, and,
except for extra help at shearing and
harvest, be run by a man and a boy.
If mixed farming is adopted to
control s.w. —it is the only system offer-
ing hope at present —supplementary feed-
ing must be a part of it if enough sheep
are to be carried to keep the weed down.
It sounds a bit imaginative, does it?
Dave Kelly, of Quandialla, has proved
its practicability to his own satisfaction.
As an alternative to woolgrowing,
breeding is good, perhaps better. The
bulk of the sheep would be carried when
s.w. is making growth, and, following the
turn-off of lambs and hoggets, pressure
of sheep would be reduced when feed
was low.
It’s possible that dust would reduce
the wool return from dry sheep on the
wheat stubble. For the supplementary
feeding, automatic self-feeders will prove
least expensive in the long run.
But remember the old saw about “one
man’s meat, etc.,” and adapt foregoing
suggestions to suit your own holding.
Travelling Burr-infested' Sheep.
“B-gar”: W. Queensland D.I. boards
are determined to prevent burr-infested
sheep from helping to establish noxious
weeds, especially Noogoora, in clean
country through which they travel. Re-
cently two mobs of burr-infested sheep
were held up and prevented from travel-
ling until all burr pods had been pulled
out by hand. With seven men on the
job, it took three days.
With a less observant inspector, the
infested sheep could easily have travelled
on to spread the curse.
In lightly-infested country graziers
can cope with Noogoora, but an ever-
increasing menace is allowed to flourish
at will on stock routes.
If there is too much galvanised and
Noogoora burr to eradicate, the Gov-
ernment could easily fence off heavily-
infested places.
Several stations in the central-west
have been compelled either to fence off
Noogoora areas or go out of sheep
altogether.
Each year sees more clean country
become infested with Noogoora, galvan-
ised burr, piggy melon or other worth-
less plants.
Pink-eye.
“B-gar”: My early experience with the
disease causes me to side with “Wally
D.” (B. 12/2/’36). Pink-eye is not as
easily cured as “Lion” (B. 22/1/’36) sug-
gests. Both kerosene and boracic proved
effective at different times with mild
cases, but sheep that had been missed
and had a thick film over the eyes did
not gain full relief until an injection of
argyrol solution (2 grains to loz. water)
had cleared away the rheum.
As with all eye complaints, early
treatment is 75 p.c. of the battle. Allow
pink-eye to get a few days’ start and one
treatment only is useless.
Isolating the affected sheep is a
reasonably safe procedure at times, but
no harm can result by treating the whole
flock.
Droving Sheep.
“Winfield”: There is a marked difference
between “droving” and “driving,”
though many so-called drovers fail to
see it. An experienced drover will
justify his wage.
Provided there is enough daylight,
sheep should be allowed to break camp
at will. Restiveness in the yard or brake
will cause a flock to scatter or canter
over the best feed.
A careful drover is as often in front
of his sheep as behind them. To graze
contentedly a flock must spread. Strung
out is the natural formation when they
are on the move, and few will put their
heads down, the tendency being to follow
the leader.
Generally the sheep should be allowed
to decide when they will begin the mid-
day camp. The drover’s aim should be
to have them at a well-shaded watering-
place if possible.
Unmolested sheep will pursue a regu-
lar and natural routine.
That is, they will spread to graze, com-
ing together at a watering-place to camp
during the hottest part of the day. They
break camp again when it begins to get
cool, and gather about sunset.
Branding Sheep.
“Winfield”: In my experience, there is
no oil that will make a clear brand to
last from shearing to shearing; and
owners dislike retarring—even if it
could be done clearly—near shearing-
time.
A good plan is for neighbors to agree
on a branding position—one owner to
brand on the near and one on the off
rump. If necessary, three more can take
a shoulder each and near the backbone.
No brand should be put actually over
the spine. It is sometimes injurious, and
almost always results in an uneven
marking.
Good, clean wool (not dags and
crutchings, as is usual) should pad the
bottom of a tin and be sufficiently moist
for the pressure of the brand to cause
tar to ooze up and smear the iron. A
gallon tin, cut sideways and with turned
edges, makes a good holder.
A brand can be put on best with one
good resounding clap. Sloth and hesita-
tion make for blurring.
Mycotic Dermatitis.
“Murrawong”: The hot, humid condi-
tions experienced in many pastoral dis-
tricts at present are ideal for the breed-
ing of various sheep diseases, and,
although it is difficult to guard against
their entry into a flock, proper super-
vision and care may check their spread.
Of these diseases, mycotic dermatitis
and water-rot are the most common, and
there is a tendency in many quarters to
confuse the two. Although the origin
of both is somewhat similar, the effects
differ. Various organisms carried in dust
are washed down to the skin, and under
hot, steamy conditions set up a fermen-
tation through which the causative agents
operate in different ways.
The water-rot bacteria spread over the
skin, attacking the wool fibre, and the
result is soon evident in discoloration of
the fleece, accompanied by harshness and
coarsening of the fibre. The colors vary
from brown, purple to bright green and
red. With continuing hot, humid
weather the stain spreads over most of
the fleece, but, should dry weather follow,
the resultant wool will resume its natural
growth and color.
Mycotic dermatitis bacteria, however,
on reaching the skin of the sheep, attack
the base of the wool fibre, forming a
pustule which eventually hardens to a
white, chalky substance, enclosing a
fair-sized staple of wool. • For some
time there will be nothing in the out-
ward appearance of the sheep to denote
this, but on handling the animal hard
lumps will be encountered in the fleece,
extending like rock-hard pencils from
skin to wool-tip. The disease is highly
infectious, and where its presence is sus-
pected the sheep should be gone through
and all infected animals killed and
burned.
Sometimes the disease is not discovered
until shearing-time. If infected sheep can
be caught before entering the shed kill and
burn them, wool and all. Shearing
machines will spread the disease quicker
than anything else. However, if an
animal is shorn before the trouble is
noticed disinfect the machine at once,
get rid of the animal and burn the wool.
An excellent practice, and one that
should be carried out in every shed, is to
add a little disinfectant to the water-
tin where shearers drop their used combs
and cutters. Whether any skin or wool
disease is suspected or not, the board,
tables and chutes should be copiously
sprinkled with disinfectant before and
after shearing and after the weekly wash-
down at shearing and at crutching.
Animal Condition and Parasitism.
“Corriedale”: In most forms of worm
infestation the condition of the animal
constitutes the biggest factor in beating
the trouble. When low a sheep cannot
resist parasites, but it can reduce their
numbers with a rise in condition.
The trouble with drenches is that, owing
to the widespread improvement of pas-
tures and the better cover for parasites
and organisms which they afford, dosing
has to be more frequent than it used to
be on the drier native pastures. Conse-
quently a smaller dose than a strictly
potent one has to be given much more
often. Full dosage is too severe on the
sheep’s constitution when weakened by
the parasites, but is necessary to be prop-
erly effective.
Take a normal year’s programme on
fat-lamb country for the ewe. One
inoculation for entero-toxaemia and one
for black disease doesn’t hurt, but two
half-yearly drenches of carbon tetra-
chloride for fluke and a regular monthly
one of bluestone and nicotine for twisted
wire-worm is the usual thing, and this
can be too much. If Trichostrongylles
are present a Blackleaf 40 and bluestone
dose may be called for. On top of this
the nodular, lower intestinal worm and
lung-worm do not respond to medicine.
Such a drenching programme is apt to
weaken the sheep when it is low in con-
dition, and still leave parasites behind.
Lung and nodular worms respond only
to the sheep’s state of health, and much
the same can be said of the others, except
fluke.
Even before the war Dr. J. A. Gilruth
was trying to drive the lesson home that
the sheepman’s best insurance against
parasitism in the flock is to keep the
sheep in good health.
Care and Rabbit Virus.
“Zedo”: The past year’s rabbit plague
in England has produced a market for
bunnies —and a virus disease, evolved in
the research laboratories of Cambridge.
The virus will be tried under quaran-
tine conditions in Australia, and it is
hoped that the quarantine will be very
strict, if it is possible to keep it strict in
a country which is full of wandering ban-
dicoots. Any virus to which a rabbit
is sensitive might be just as deadly to
Australian marsupials. And it mightn’t
boggle at smiting young lambs.
The Bit and Bitting.
“R.K.D.”: Having crusaded against
ignorant use of the knife on a horse’s
hoof, let me take a kick at our methods
of bitting saddle-horses.
When an Australian speaks of a “bit,”
what he means, as often as not, is a
snaffle.
There are horses, splendid at wheeling,
changing the shoulder, reining-up and
passaging, which are never ridden with
anything more than a snaffle.
A snaffle’s construction and functions
differ entirely from those of a bit. It
is not capable, as is a bit, of inducing
complete precision of control. The
snaffle is attached to the bridle. (In this
only it differs from the bridoon, which
is attached to the head-collar, if worn.)
It is designed to make the horse raise
his head.
If the horse’s head is down, tightening
the rein causes the snaffle to pinch the
lower jaw. To escape this the horse
raises his head. If necessary, he pushes
upward with his tongue till the snaffle
clears the “bars” of the mouth, and its
pressure is taken by the lips at the
corners. The pain is thus eased. The
lips are soft and fairly elastic. Any
further tightening of the reins simply
results in the lips being stretched into a
grin of agony, and in a cruel pincer-like
action on the corners of the mouth.
Nothing useful whatever occurs in the
way of control.
Only “snaffle-mouthed” horses can
stand the snaffle, and they are usually
the mounts of men with that special
gift of heaven —“hands.”
The bit is attached to the bridle. It
is designed to pivot on the mouthpiece
(which is usually a rigid bar), not on the
point of attachment to the bridle. The
curb, twisted till perfectly flat, should
rise up into the little hollow immedi-
ately behind the lower lip, and in front
of the point where the branches of the
jaw come together. Correct fitting is
important. To achieve it, the bit should
hang rather lower in the horse’s mouth
than is usually supposed. When a bit
is properly adjusted, the mouthpiece fits
snugly against the bars of the mouth
(where there is plenty of room for it), and


o ]yerything.
.
are en
.
mmi
■
■
m
m
& "
• ■
> ■ ...
a
-
fV g
2;, ■■
ggKg:*:;:;:;:;*;
#■»
>
* X
m- ><■ ■ v •• >
. ■ ’ ' v^-
iillfi&ili
■1
iMimWuIM
iS*ss8i*li
Knee Action wheels move up and
down independently of each other,
stepping over bumps and holes to
give you a restful gliding ride.
Ride Stabilizer keeps the car steady
irrespective of speed and enables
fast turns to be made with comfort
and safety.
* 1
Centre Control Steering takes
curves without effort, holds you on a
straightline course with the lightest
touch.
YOU GET EVERYTHING
IN THE NEW 1936
Olds tu obile
If you pay anywhere near the price of an Oldsmobile don t
make the mistake of accepting less than a new Oldsmobile.
Get everything you’re entitled to —and that leads you straight
to the “great new car that gives you everything”. Everything
in features to give you everything in
performance, safety, comfort, conveni-
ence and long lasting satisfaction.
Nothing is omitted, everything is there
. . . everything that everybody is
talking about . . . everything you’re
entitled to . . . everything you want.
Come for a demonstration drive.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.
Hear the perfect tone
of the new G.M-H. “Air
Chief” Car Radio.
Separate speaker
fitted into the Header
bar flush with the roof.
Price £27 plus tax. Can
be financed with your
Oldsmobile purchase
under G.M.A.C. De-
ferred Payment Plan.
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
Smoother, Livelier Power to whisk
you through traffic or carry yon
hour after hour with effortless ease.
§ll
Synchro-Mesh Transmission, silent
even in low and reverse, for finger-
flick changing, and positive control
under all conditions.
m
mm
Super-Hydraulic Brakes stop the car
with quickness that is almost tele-
graphic in its response. Self-ener-
gizing. Self-equalizing.
‘Armourplate’ Windscreen of flex-
ible safety glass is standard on all
models. Cannot splinter, distort
vision nor discolour.
No-Draught Ventilation scoops in
cool air on hot days, admits fresh
air without draughts in bad weather.
Electro-Hardened Pistons reduce
the weight of the reciprocating parts
and lengthen the life of main and
connecting rod bearings.
Inbuilt Locked Luggage Trunk
with separate spare wheel com-
partment, leaves the spacious in-
terior entirely unencumbered.
Luxurious Interiors, spacious and
newly enriched, as you would natu-
rally expect in a truly fine car.
the curb, when drawn up, presses
against flesh, not bone.
The purpose of the bit is to take a
firm (but not painful) grip on the
horse’s jaw.
The principal advantages of the bit
compared with the snaffle are its lack of
that cruel pinching action ; its dependa-
bility for control and the confidence it
engenders; its power of compelling pre-
cision and correctness in the horse’s
movements. Its drawbacks entirely de-
pend on the man. Most men just buy
a bridle without fitting, and that is the
worst possible start. Imagine buying
boots like that!
Young Pigs’ Troubles.
“Seenitall”: When young pigs are
doing badly, and yet have plenty of feed,
it is often owing to an unsuitable ration
after weaning, which makes them costive
and causes loss of appetite.
Don’t give salts or oil. Make a jelly
by boiling whole linseed in water and
straining out the seeds. When set, give
to the sick ones.
When a husky cough is heard, examine
the surroundings. Clean and disinfect sties
thoroughly. If in the open, see that the
pigs are shut off from stagnant water and
rush-bearing ground, which is unhealthy
for young animals. Pigs, like all other
animals, need clean food and water.
When a young pig is notably a greedy
feeder and also a bad doer, worms are
the almost certain cause —the droppings
will tell the story. Cut off raw vegetable
feed and give only cooked stuff. Pro-
vide plenty of cinders and clean grit.
Pigs need grit, and will not do well with-
out it.
Points in Maize-storage.
“Hortus”: Why isn’t more maize
stored for drought feed? It has a very
high food value for sheep, but owing
to weevils and mould many farmers
have had failures with storage.
It’s no good putting in tanks grain with
a moisture-content above 14 p.c. It’s so
easy to find the moisture-content. Send
a small sample to the Agricultural
Department. It will mean the difference
between success and failure.
It is best to use inland-grown maize
for storage. Get it during the summer
if possible—grain harvested during late
autumn or early winter. This should
have dried out well.
Again, in N.S.W. the Northern Table-
lands, Inverell and the south-western
slopes are practically free from weevils,
though the grain moth is present in these
districts. That, however, should not
cause much worry, as it cannot travel
far in bulk grain.
Coastal maize is not always safe for
storing until late spring, except the early-
sown crops harvested about January.
Weevils are likely to show up before
this time elapses. However, if maize
happens to be obtained from weevil-
infested districts, the best and only thing
to do is to put it in air-tight tanks and
fumigate. Large-scale storage can be
carried out in grain silos.
Make transport easier by having the
latter handy to sheep paddocks.
Remember that weevils cannot exist
f or any length of time without oxygen,
The first essential is a tank or silo that
can be properly sealed. As carbon bi-
sulphide has proved its efficacy in destroy-
j ng potato moths and their larvae, so it
j s the best to use for weevil-infested
grain. The liquid becomes a gas when
exposed to the air, and, .being heavier
than air, the fumes diffuse among the
grains and sink to the tank bottom. The
bisulphide can be poured into a shallow
vessel, or can be poured on top of the
ma ize. The tank should then be sealed
(Continued on next page.)


27/6
An Abbey Riding Boot, made to
Black and Brown Calf, in full and
half sizes.
Price: Black Calf, 27/6; Brown, 27/6.
Suppleness counts when
m the saddle
Riding Boots can be strong
and tough—they can fit like
a glove and still not be com-
fortable unless they are supple.
Suppleness, which enables the
foot to move with the least
resistance, which gives the
Boot softness and comfort, is
certainly the major point in
all Riding Boots.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
WA 18.
The Most Widely Spread
Banking Service
The Bank of New South Wales, with over 750
branches throughout Australia, .New Zealand
and the Pacific Islands, provides the most
widely spread and complete banking service in
the Southern Hemisphere.
Through this network of branches, and its
agents and correspondents throughout the
World, the Bank provides every facility for
financing internal and oversea trade. At each
one of its branches, the Bank transacts all
customary banking business.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
With which the Western Australian Bank and The
Australian Bank of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated
Aggregate Assets exceed £115,000,000
195 A-1936
' SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
ĸ
THE
“Gilbert
River”
COWBOY
. SADDLE
£l5/17/6
(Complete)
It has a best
“F o u r ight”
tree, the pads
are set high
up along the
rider’s thighs
for security,
and the panel
is short.
It is fitted
with iron or
wood stirrups as preferred.
N.S.W. RAIL, FREIGHT
PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
TTurfy-aZlefori.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everythin); a Sheepman Ought to Know.
as quickly as possible to prevent the gas
escaping. As the gas is highly in-
flammable, the greatest care should be
exercised. No lights of any kind should
be near, or disaster may follow.
If a tank is opened it is best to re-
fumigate to prevent the weevil-eggs from
developing. Fumigation calls for only
about lib. carbon bisulphide for a 1000-
gallon tank, which will hold 130 bushels
of maize. The price works out at a frac-
tion of a penny per bushel.
Another plan is to put a lighted candle
on the top of the grain, and then seal
the tank. The oxygen is burnt out, thus
filling the tank with carbon dioxide. With
this scheme it is best not to fill the tank
completely.
Mangels and Swedes.
“Steve”: I cannot let the comments
of “Hortus” (B. 29/1 /’36) on mangels
and swedes pass unchallenged. The
English farmer’s problem is different
from that of the Australian. Small farms
must be worked to their utmost, and
nearness of market gives a wider margin
to cover the cost of labor. The root
crops are pitted for stall-feeding during
winter, whereas in Australia the stock
have access to pastures the year round.
Experience in a recent dry spell of two
or three months in Maoriland appears to
lend weight in favor of root crops.
Dairymen who had roots maintained
their milk yields almost at normal.
Neighbors without these crops had their
supply diminished to practically nothing.
But, granting a momentary advantage,
in the long run the highly-developed pas-
ture has much in its favor.
Excess growth conserved as hay or
silage should be enough to tide the herds
over dry periods while involving only a
fraction of the work necessary with man-
gels or swedes. The latter lose their value
when more easily grown fodders are at
hand to add succulence to the ration.
Both swedes and mangels contain about
88 p.c. water and only 1 p.c. digestible
protein. Milk production imposes a
heavy strain upon the protein resources
of both cows and ewes. So we shall have
to look elsewhere for a fodder richer in
protein.
On the average of 27 European experi-
ments in which mangels were stored or
pitted from October to March, 8 p.c. of
the dry matter was lost by respiration.
The fibre content in both cases is low,
and the large amount of water present
tends to weaken digestion unless fed with
some other and drier fodder.
Summer Rains.
“Granova”: In the southern half of
inland N.S.W., summer rains are of little
value to graziers who have not large
areas of lucerne.
After rain any old growth of lucerne
should be eaten down as quickly as pos-
sible and the stock removed until the
fresh growth is beginning to flower.
Stock paddocks showing a growth of
summer grasses such as umbrella and
the love grasses very heavily about a
week after the rain. These grasses are
useless once they have seeded, but are
palatable if kept closely grazed.
If the rains are heavy and prolonged,
the winter grasses will shoot. Keep these
unstocked ; they may dry off again, but
when the autumn rains come they will
revive and provide green feed in record
time.
Dry feed, especially stubble, loses its
value after rain, and, unless hand-fed,
stock lose condition badly until the green
shoot is available.
Sowing Lucerne.
“Albarmount”: “X.T.” on soil pre-
paration (B. 12/2/’36) omitted to say
when to sow the lucerne. Generally, in
hotter districts April or a little earlier is
the best month, and in the colder centres
the end of August and September are
preferable. Spring sowing avoids weeds,
but where these are not troublesome
autumn planting allows the roots to
become well established during the
winter —an important factor in hot
climates.
The seed-bed should be brought to a
fine tilth with cultivator, roller and
harrows. Seeding should be at the rate
of 31b. to 81b. per acre —the higher rate
being on rich, moist soil —and sown
through a broadcaster or mixed with
super. (801 b. per acre) and run through
a drill with the hoses lifted. As super,
lessens the fertility of seed if left more
than one day, only small quantities
should be mixed at a time.
A long fallow, as “X.T.” advises, is
unnecessary. Eight or nine months for
spring sowing is enough. And autumn-*
sown lucerne is more weed-free when it
follows a wheat or oats stubble fallow.
Super, and Good Farming.
“The 0.D.”: Fertiliser is a fine thing
on any farm, but there are N.S.W.
growers who spend a disproportionate
amount of money on super, when much
of their trouble is simply bad farming.
And that, in the end, is no good to
either the farm or the super, trade. 1
admit that super, will often force a good
yield out of ground that has been poorly
worked.
In the Wellington district (N.S.W.) this
season a young farmer took off what
was probably the best crop of Baringa
grown in the State. Averaging 36 bushels
an acre, the grain was hard, bright and
Ayent 691 b. to the bushel. Though the
best on the property, the crop was repre-
sentative of the whole of the wheat there.
Rotation and long fallow are practised,
with early sowing and varieties proved
for the district. No super, has been
used for nearly 10 years. It is used on
farms all round. At the same time,
addition of super, to the good working
might still have wrought improvement.
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: A good remedy for
belt-slip is the application of sticky
rubber beads made by dropping the
exudate from burning old motor tubes
direct into a can of cool water. The
beads are applied to the contact surface
while the belt is running.
“Valerin’ : I find that for pink-eye an
ointment of 1 p.c. yellow mercuric oxide
and vaseline, well blended, makes a satis-
factory remedy. Put a little in the eye,
which should be moved about until the
ointment is well distributed. Unlike
liquids, the ointment is retained in the
eye for a long time.
“Wrash”: Before soldering, give all
the steel tools to be used a coating of
tallow or vaseline. Muriatic acid fumes
are great rust producers.
“Whalebone”: The less the baits are
handled when poisoning rabbits, the
more effective they are. It is best to use
tongs, which can be made from a bit of
bent hoop-iron, instead of fingers when
putting them out. Gloves don’t
they take on human odors.
“Valerin”: Applied to wool the word
“quality” is badly misused. In the
early days it usually denoted fine-
ness. Nowadays it expresses those prop-
erties which go to make up a stylish
wool, whether strong, medium or fine-
perfection of crimp, evenness of fibre,
softness of handle, strength, elasticity
and lustre. In the case of sheep—especi-
ally studs —quality means “good breed-
ing.” A merino ram with a “kempy”
face, bad horns, bad hocks, etc., though
carrying a fleece of excellent quality,
would not possess quality. But a ram
with a good face, horn, trueness of wool
in parts, does not possess quality in any
sense of the word if he carries “hair” on
folds and breech.
“Bimbo”: Nothing in my experience
can beat goats to clean up blackberries.
I knew a Gippsland farmer who was
about to abandon his farm because of
blackberries when someone suggested
that he try Nanny and Billy on them. In
three months there wasn’t a sign of a
blackberry—above ground. He sold the
goats, and then sold the farm to a man
who nearly fell over himself at the bar-
gain he was getting. But what that
buyer said in six months’ time is best left
to the imagination. The blackberries
were as bad as ever.


- :;-x
~Jiea£ yyvu4eM-
sMe.
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
THE
m
Rtf*' 1
■V4 \ lnKUHiivi?!!
SMOKE-OH!
No Ambition.
I struck it again to-day.
“Will you be on the same old job at
the same old desk five years from now?
Have you no ambition to better your-
self. If your co. knew you were excel-
lently trained and qualified you could
go right to the top of the tree. Don’t
delay.”
The usual spinning of honeyed words
by that business-training institution to try
to snare me for a course.
Well, I admit that I prob-
ably will be on the same job
at the same desk five years
hence, and I doubt whether
I’ll be getting any more then
than I am now. Nor have I
any ambition to go higher in
the co. that employs me. I
fail to see why I should slave
and swot of a night, depriv-
ing myself of pleasure and
upsetting my social life, just
to fit myself for some ad-
vancement that will never
come.
I don’t believe in this “am-
bition-at-any-cost” stun t—
look at the sticky end that
came to Napoleon and others who tried
it. No. I’m no lazier than the next man,
but no night study for me just to try to
go ahead in the co. Definitely, no.
I’m already managing director.
S. W. K.
•F 4* *F *F
A Slight Error.
David desired another drink.
In view of his condition, it was an un-
wise desire ; still, it was imperative. He
could not bear to contemplate the loss
of the tremendous kick he was getting.
He reeled along the street, smiling
and chatting to himself. It was nearly
midnight, but, being in Darlinghurst, he
felt very optimistic. He remembered the
local proverb about a house in Darling-
hurst being worth two hotels anywhere else.
He thought any house would do, but he
felt a wayward urge to be selective. Stag-
gering past a blurred sequence of build-
ings, he at length singled one out that
appealed to his fancy.
He lurched up to the door and
addressed a dark figure:
“Can I — hie —get a couple heresh?”
He was taken firmly by the arm and
led inside. David had made a serious
mistake. He had called at Darlinghurst
police station.
T. W. N.
•F *F *F *F
“Tram and truck collide, smashing 80 dozen
bottles and flooding the road with ginger
beer.” . . .
We hear that small boys in the vicinity
w’ent for the lick of their lives.
•F *F *F *F
They WERE Biting.
“Yes,” said the veteran reminiscently,
“they were biting that day all right. It
got so easy we were fishing without bait-
ing our hooks, and still getting them
without an effort'. Chuck your line in,
pull it out, and there’d be two or three
every time.
“At last someone made a bright sug-
gestion. A penny a cast, the first one
pulling in his line without a fish on it to
take the pool. And do you know, there
was £4 16s. in the kitty before anyone
collected! ”
Billo.
A Denial.
The secretary, Late-risers and- Bed-
lovers’ League, writes: must hasten
to disagree entirely and irrevocably with
a gentleman (not one of our members
evidently) who, in a letter to the papei
the other day, expressed the opinion
that Einstein’s theory of relativity is use-
less.
“No book produced in modern times
has, we consider, been more useful. When
suffering from insomnia we have always
found that half a page of Einstein
is better than any sleeping draught.
What does it matter to us whether the
bending of light in a gravitational
manner (though, once or twice, when our
inherent teetotalism had, despite our best
efforts, been grievously undermined, we
seemed to notice it behaving in that
eccentric fashion ourselves) has been
substantiated or not?
“Nor do we care a jot whether pre-
dicted displacements of stars (and we
have seen some funny goings-on among
them, too, at times) lack confirmation.
The less brains we have and the more
we have to strain them trying to under-
stand what the learned professor is driv-
ing at, the better, for the invariable and
beneficial result is deep slumber undis-
turbed by bending rays of moonshine or
by stars losing their foothold and being
jostled out of the firmament.
“If the theory would only come out in
a sixpenny edition, insomnia would be-
“I say, have you any billiard balls a trifle less sticky than this?
come an obsolete malady. Very likely
the doctors know this and have bribed
Professor Einstein always to charge more
for it than mere basic-wage-earners can
afford to pay.”
Dregs.
•J*
“A party of 2\ members of the British
National Union passed through on
the Mooltan.” — “S. M. Herald.”
We gather that the Mooltan had ex-
perienced some heavy weather.
.T. -Y- A mlm
It’s Not Cricket.
“The players had been on the field for a
day and a half before the Victorian team began
its second innings, and the strain proved too
great. Christy, the Queensland captain, placed
the fieldsmen so well that it had been impos-
sible to score runs rapidly.” —Manager of Vic-
torian XI, reporting on Queensland tour.
This sort of thing is, of course, very
disheartening to a team. I remember a
match I played in once. There were two
bowlers on the other side who would
persist in getting the ball past the bats-
men and hitting the stumps. It was most
discouraging. And every time one of
our chaps hit a ball in the air a fieldsman
would catch it. We were terribly upset.
But the worst blow came when I went in
to bat—last man, of course ; they’d kept
me back on purpose to stop the rot.
I was three, and well set. Jumping
out for a big hit, I misjudged the ball
and missed. I was only two yards out of
my crease, yet the wicketkeeper knocked
off the bails and appealed.
Even the umpire was against us. He
gave me “out.”
It was most unfortunate, and cost us
the match, and I have always thought
that if the game had been played in the
right spirit the result would have been
different.
Becks.
Picking Them.
“Wanted, typist. Apply own handwriting.”
— “S.M.H.”
I’ve always wondered why business-
men want to study handwriting when
they are engaging a typist not to write by
hand. I dropped in on Binks the day
after his ad. appeared.
His desk was piled high with letters —
floods of letters, letters oozing out on
to the floor and others trickling under
the door into the telephonist’s booth.
All were inscribed in exquisite copper-
plate, and might have come from
the hand of a single master (as I have
no doubt they did).
Binks rang for his boy.
“Take this mess away and burn it,
James,” he said curtly. “I’m afraid we’ll
have to insert another ad.”
“What’s the big idea?” I demanded.
“Do you mean to tell me that you can’t
find one competent typist in that whole
batch? Anyhow, how can you tell from
a letter?”
“Didn’t you know?” he countered.
“We always look for one so illegible that
nobody can read it. Then we’re sure
we’ve got a girl who’s done so much
typing she’s forgotten how to write.”
Mac.
* 4* 4* 4*
Storm.
The little ship staggered dangerously
and seemed to halt as a gigantic wave
flung her high and held her poised hor-
ribly on the wave crest.
Anxious eyes watched the swirling
slather drop from beneath her. Again
she rose and fell, dipping deep into the
waves, with the decks awash the whole
time.
A cry went up. Land was just ahead!
Everyone held his breath ; it seemed
the tiny vessel must be driven under .by
the raging elements.
Could she do it? Could she get there
in time? A hundred hearts missed a
beat. Yes ... she was there. Safe at last.
A mighty cheer went up.
The Onnksville Model Boat Club had
successfully sailed a 12in. skiff across
Black Lake in a windstorm!
G. A. L.
•F *F *F *F
“Bill Lang, former heavyweight champion
of Australia, will tell in the ‘Labor Daily’
on Monday next how he met his Waterloo.”
‘Labor Daily.”
When the U.A.P. leaders read this
they shuddered for a moment; then they
breathed again. It wasn’t Jack after all.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
111. — Pottering About Perth.
Opinions differ as to which is Aus-
tralia’s front door. Fremantle claims the
title —a fact which seems to make Sydney
the tradesman’s entrance. Darwin also
has some claim to the honor, pointing
out that all the highest visitors come that
way, and referring to Fremantle as the
side gate.
I shall assume, however, that the
tourist will arrive by the usual route, and
that the first signs of life he will see will
be the dead marines floating off Rottnest
Island.
I once personally conducted a tour
throughout Australia.
I met my party at the boat in Fre-
mantle. It comprised Sir Percy Whips-
noodle, M.F.H., Eton and Oxford, Carl-
ton Club, tigers in India and all that;
Mr. and Mrs. Loofah—he was something
in baths, rather a rough sort of chap,
but henpecked, and she was ultra-ultra ;
Miss Birdseed, an authoress in search of
color; Claude Counterpoise, and a few
others whose names will probably occur
to me as I go along.
I summed them up as “average tourist
mixture,” and suggested a get-together
movement, all one jolly party and that
sort of thing.
Sir Percy fingered his bid school tie
and said “Yes, of course.” Loofah
looked at his wife, who, taking her cue
from Sir Percy, was all smiles. Miss
Birdseed said, “Yes, one should unbend
a little when one was abroad, shouldn’t
one?” and Claude agreed that one
should.
So that was that.
That afternoon I sent the ladies up to
King’s Park while I showed the men
round some of the older hostel t ies of
the city.
We got back to our own hotel just
in time for dinner. Miss Birdseed was
full of beans. An extract from her book,
Antipodean Antics, may be interesting at
this stage. The chapter is entitled “Per-
ambulating Around Perth”:
....spent the afternoon at the delight-
fully-named King’s Park (so fitting and so
original, I thought), where we saw Nature
in all her wild beauty through the im-
penetrable bush expecting every moment to
be beset by savages or attacked by fierce
wombats (an animal much dreaded in the
vicinity) down a beautiful avenue of
red-flowering gums. It is from the gum
of this tree (my guide informed me) that
the natives manufacture that pink chew-
ing gum so beloved in my oh! so happy
schoolgirl days (and to think that I always
believed it was made of reindeer h00f5)....
lovely wildflowers such as kangaroo paw-
paws, boloney and flannelette flowers.
She’d had a thrilling time all right. And
so can any tourist. King’s Park is still
there, though the residents seldom men-
tion it.
Mrs. Loofah was not so thrilled. It
appears that she’d discovered a bull-ants’
nest and a wild beehive—in both cases
after the occupants had discovered her.
She accused Mr. Loofah of drinking,
but I assured her that we had spent the
afternoon visiting historic landmarks and
sampling some of the city’s manufac-
tures. She sniffed, and said sarcastically
that her nose had already told her that.
Sir Percy, always the gentleman, said
that Mrs. L. was mistaken, and that it
was he who was offending. Claude, who
had taken so readily to the local brew
that he was almost a secessionist already,
seemed inclined to dispute the honor,
but Loofah himself broke in, swearing
he was “as jober as a Sudge” and offer-
ing to fight anyone who disputed it.
With a little tact I smoothed things
over, and we went in to dinner.
Extract from Sir Percy Whipsnoodle’s
diary:
Feb. sth. Arrived Perth. Ale very good.
Jasby.
•F *F *F *F
“He could not fight, but he got into quarrels.
One night he was brought home to his wife
badly knocked about.”
Home they brought her warrior dud.
Suspicion Proved.
This is the end, my sweet—our idyll’s
finished.
There’s nothing now to be explained
or said.
My tenderness of heart for you’s
diminished;
In fact, my love is definitely dead.
That man’s a fool a wife no doubt sup-
poses —
That he’s not mindful, wide-awake, or
fly
To her cute tricks she thinks. But, Holy
Moses !
The milkman didn’t need a bunch of
roses
To take a paltry cinder from your
eye !
P.O.M.C.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji:—
ISLAND
HERITAGE
[Author’s Note.— All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
BY ALISON SMITH
Ona.OJ.0Tr RATHE ID CBV
(b. CK .TT(D i5 CH CE D
Chapter XVII —( Continued ).
TO Vunisesi a week later came Laurence on
his way back to Valoa. Walking his lone
homestead in those days and nights, he had
come to the decision that for the sake of his own
dignity he would take Elena back —let her remain
mistress of his home to the outward world; but
for himself he was done with her for ever.
He wanted no more talk of himself and his con-
cerns ; they had been common property enough
as it was. His love for Elena, overwhelming
as it had been, had died that stormy night on which
she had flung her passion and surrender to another
in his face. He’d done with her at last —hateful,
luxurious, smooth woman with her lies and deceit;
he’d done with women, all of them. Ruvia that he
lived for was still his ; if he died—well, let it pass to
other hands. Or Ruve might have a son ; that new
thought came to him and pleased him. There’d been
no love between them, but at least she hadn’t gone
against him as had the rest of his household. He
liked the idea that her son and Dick’s would inherit
Ruvia.
Running over in the calm, blue morning, he
could not but contrast the journey with that desperate
rush with the hurricane behind him. Now the sea that
had taken Harley and Denny heaved gently around
the launch ploughing its shining surface. Feathery
clouds drifted over the brilliant sky; high Ruvia,
receding, wore tender blues and greens, blending into
one as they drew further from it. Out on the glowing
sea it was as if the hurricane had never been.
Ruve, fresh in a pink frock, came out to welcome
him. She, too, looked young and glowing like the
glowing morning. He felt an unwonted stirring of
emotion, and, to her amazement, kissed her. After
all, she was the child of the woman who had loved
him ; she was all he had left. She would have been
the more amazed if she had known what late emotions
were stirring in the man’s stubborn heart. Dick, too!
He had liked Dick from the first; had wished his
own son had been like him. Looking at them both,
he was aware of new projects stirring in his mind —
new dreams for Ruvia.
Over the simple lunch in the old room that
seemed to enhance her appealing youth, he found
himself stealing covert glances at this daughter who
was almost a stranger to him. She had changed from
girl to woman; he saw the change in the tender
curves of her mouth, the tenderness of her blue eyes
that were so like dead Madeline’s. He had been a
fool to neglect her. But it was not too late.
The meal over, they sat out on the verandah, which
had already a homelike air. It was then that he
brought the talk round to more intimate concerns.
He said, not looking at either of them, pulling
at his pipe:
“I expect you both know what happened?”
“"Ves,” said Dick, and Ruve caught her breath.
What did her father intend doing?
“I’ve had a blow —a damned hard blow—but I’ll
live it down. Yes, I’ll live it down.”
“What are you going to do?” asked Ruve, on
fire with anxiety for Vivien.
He looked at her then, as if, for the first time, he
admitted her to his counsels.
“I’m taking Elena back. I suppose she told you
all’s over between us. But I’ll have no more scandal.
She’ll remain mistress at Ruvia, but I’ve done with
her.”
“Do you know,” said Ruve, “that Vivien is in a
desperate state? I saw her. She looks like death.
She says she wants to die.”
“Damn her! She’s brought me low,” said her
father. “It would be best if she did die.”
“Father!” said Ruve, shocked.
“Do you know what she is? A light woman.
She admitted it. She and that damned young Bennett.
It’s well for him he’s gone. I’ve no pity for her.”
Anger burned in the girl. Who was he, this
arrogant, hard old man, to sit in judgment on the
pitiful, wrecked creature who had been the gay, the
lovely Vivien? To wish her dead whose only sin
had been in loving Denny.
She flashed into battle.
“You were too hard on her,” she cried
vehemently. “You brought Denny there —you let
them be together—and then, when it’s too late,
you turn and condemn her. You who made so much
of her.”
She was fierce now, all the tenderness gone from
eyes and lips, white and tense. Her father, angered,
saw another child in revolt. He’d not take too much
of that from her.
He said shortly:
“You’ve no duty to her. She’s no child
of mine. Her mother owned it, and gloried
in it. That damned skunk Harley is her
father. Perhaps you can’t blame her;
wantonness is in the blood.”
He brooded heavily. There was a tense silence.
Ruve broke it.
“You can’t desert her now,” she cried. “After
all these years. It’s not her fault. It doesn’t change
my feeling to her —whatever she’s done. It’s now
that she wants friends.”
Laurence was getting angry again ; he felt the
old enmity towards her grow stronger after the
unwonted mood of benevolence. He looked at her
with hard eyes.
“Are you teaching me my duty? Telling me
what to do? You don’t judge her and you don’t
condemn her! Are you wanton, too —like Vivien?”
“Damn you! That’s enough,” said Dick. “Don’t
dare speak like that to Ruve.”
Laurence, turning, swept Dick with his arrogant
eyes.
“You, too, it seems. Dictating to me. I’d have
you know that no man stops me saying what I will.
And I say again that a woman who tells me to my
face that she has no blame for a loose woman is not
far from being one herself. Watch her. She’ll”
He got no further. Dick struck him, deliberately,
across the mouth.
“By God! You young swine”
He seemed about to hurl his strong old bulk at
the younger man, but he checked himself. He got
deadly calm.
“You’ve struck me! And, because I might have
done the same in your place, I’ve taken it. But, mark
this, no man strikes me and gets away with it. I’ll
break you, Dick Carew; and that’s my last word
to you. As for you, Ruve, I take back what I said
of you ; but you and I are best to remain strangers —
as we always were. I was a fool to expect more of
you. You turned against me from your childhood.”
He looked at them, his face working and vindic-
tive. Then he turned stiffly and went down the steps.
Ruve for a moment had a fleeting impulse to run
after him and bring him back. “Poor, poor, beaten
old man!” The thought flashed across her anger.
She looked at her young husband and saw his face
set like flint. It would be no use ; she knew that.
She knew her father—and she was beginning to know
Dick.
Elena, inwardly desperate, came readily to terms
with her husband. He was stiff and unbending, but
queerly, now that he was so utterly estranged, she felt
more interest in him than ever before. And she was
slow to believe that she could never move him again,
that her power was completely gone. She was con-
ciliating, anxious ; and her relief was patent when she
realised that he intended the outside world to see no
apparent change in their relations. She asked about
Vivien. Would she go back, too, or stay with her
grandmother?
“Let her come,” he said coldly. “We want no
more talk.”
He saw Vivien —passive, uncaring, very changed ;
and the hardness—towards her, at any rate —melted.
“Forgive me, lassie,” he said. “Forget all I said.
Ruvia’s home always to you.”
She smiled wanly up at him, but her eyes no
longer cared for anything on earth.
Chapter XVIII.
IN Vunisesi, that small, sweet estate by the Valoa
seas, Dick and Ruve, married now some seven
months, still felt no need of the outside world.
They had seen nothing of Laurence since that
morning he had gone from them in vehement anger ;
but they knew his last threat to be no empty one.
He was a bad enemy, who would bide his time and
strike hard when it did come. Of Elena and Vivien
they had seen nothing, either ; but old Batila, passing
backward and forward between Valoa and Ruvia,
gave them vivid glimpses of the state of affairs in the
Laurence household. It was dour there now ; the old
atmosphere of genial hospitality, of open house, had
gone. Laurence, who had once had a welcome for
all manner of men and women in the old days, now
did not encourage strangers, or even friends, to visit
the place. Batila was on a different footing. As she
had always done, she came and went at her pleasure,
though if Laurence had known what secrets lay in
her vigilant keeping there would have been an end.
Laurence had grown very
silent, Batila told them. The
meals were ordeals now; he
sat grim and taciturn at the
head of the once-hospitable
board, and the handsome,
sullen Elena faced him. The
women were glad when he
stalked out. Over Vivien
Batila was strangley troubled
They got an impression of
something that once had been
joyous fading, drifting without
heed where the stream flowed.
Perhaps the atmosphere of
that dour house was not whole-
some for her. They knew that
she was to bear Denny’s child,
and was near her time.
Then into Valoa —into the
peace and sunlight of it —came
the war.
August of 1914 was passing over the long island
with cool, delicious dawnings, broadening into calm
and golden days that paled into green, swift twilights.
The nights were lit with intense stars whose images
drowned in the calm, dark, smooth seas girdling Valoa
and her sister islands. A remote, glowing world of
peace.
A cutter, beating up from Levuka, brought the
first word of the change that was to sweep the quiet
cluster of islands from their golden peace.
The outbreak of war!
Up and down Valoa the news went flying. From
Valoa settlement, through the little drowsy native
townlets, till it came to Dick and Ruve in quiet
Vunisesi.
The morning was gorgeous. Down on the
crescent white beach creaming waves broke in sun-
light ; out towards the sea’s edge, where Ruvia lifted
peaked hills out of purple waters, great clouds drifted,
perpetually changing their billowing shapes. It was
hard to realise that somewhere in the world outside
men were even now at war, that the call to the colors
was sounding in every Dominion.
Ruve was incredulous that it could last long.
“Now that England’s in,’’ she said with a fine
pride, “it will be over in scarcely any time. Don’t
look so on the black side.”
The man was grave.
“I’m not so sure. You don’t realise yet what
we’re up against. It’s going to be a long business.
Somehow I’m dead sure of that. We’ll all be in it.
All of us! You and I, Ruve! I couldn’t hold back.
You wouldn’t want me to.”
“Dick! You mean you’d go? You’d leave me?
We’ve had such a little time together. We’ve been so
happy!”
“Would you like to think you’d married a
coward?”
“You’re not that! Oh, Dick, my dearest! You
haven’t got to go—yet.”
“They’re joining up in Sydney now,” her young
husband said. “I’ll have to go, my dear. You
wouldn’t hold me back. Even for you I couldn’t
stay”——
“Ah, no! ” she said, her face against his shoulder.
“I couldn’t love a man who wouldn’t go. But we’ve
been so happy—we’ve had such a little time.”
“It isn’t all over,” he said, stroking her hair.
“We’ll have all the years when the war’s over, darling.
Everything will be the same again.”
But the girl in his arms was wiser. In her heart
was the cold knowledge that once Dick had gone,
even if he came back unscathed, life to both of them
would never be quite the same again. Now, in the
first glow of youth and love fulfilled, they were
together in an enchanted country. Over them still was
rapture; a glimmering magic was in every dewy dawn,
and the nights were nights of glamor. Gradually the
golden enchantment would mellow into an everyday,
ordinary happiness: new interests would enter their
lives—they who now lived only each for the other.
She didn’t want to lose any of the glamor—whatever
beautiful things waited in the future. And her quick
imagination showed her Dick lying dead under cold,
uncaring northern stars ; showed him mangled, bleed-
ing, enduring slow agony—a score of dreadful possi-
bilities. She couldn’t let him go! But could she hold
him back? Brand him as a coward among other
men? That was what they would think of him.
Here in the little, sweet estate life had been so
idyllic—an Arcadian interlude set in a land that knew
perpetual summer, and lay in dazzling light by day
and silver radiance by night. It had been too good
to last. She heard again Adela’s wailing voice and
Vivien’s ominous words: “Take happiness while you
can.” Well, she, too, had had all of life. Was the
ill-luck of the Laurences to follow her, too? She
grew afraid.
It was as if she looked back and saw it all clear
now and remote behind her. The happy, simple life-
even the thought of Vivien, of Rod —had not had
power to break the enchantment of the small world
of glamor. The happy days and nights in Vunisesi
that held all her heart. She couldn’t bear it to end.
But it was to end.
There in Valoa they talked of the war, though as
yet it seemed an unreal, a grotesque thing that had
come into being so suddenly.
Old Addison, who lived on a small estate that
was drifting inevitably into liquidation while he drank
liberally and read omnivorously and his half-caste
children ran picturesquely, squalidly wild, being in
liquor and eloquent, expounded the position on the
store verandah.
“I seen it coming,” he asserted proudly. “Aye.
and it’ll last longer than you fools think that say it’ll
be over and done with before Christmas. A regular,
bloody upheaval, that’s what it is. It’ll change the
face of the living world. I’ve knocked around con-
siderable in my time, I have, before I came to anchor


i n t his backwater, and I know better than most what
I’m talking about. I doubt if we’ll see the end of it
this time next year.”
"Twelve months! Oh, hell! Old man, the
whiskv’s talking in you,” jeered Clark. “It’ll blow ’
over * It’s a scare in the newspapers. They always
make the most of this sort of thing. Make their
money out of it! ”
Old Addison looked at him like a blear-eyed,
and >reputable prophet in voluminous khaki trousers and
a dingy shirt open above his immense red chest.
"Man, don’t be a bigger damned fool that you
can help,”’ he advised. “This ain’t no scare —it’s the
real thing.”
Harry Daniels, the stocky cutter captain, snig-
gered a little.
To Dick, riding in late that morning, they
turned tense, expectant faces. He had a quick impres-
sion that all of them—disreputable, knowledgeable
old Addison; little, fussing Clark, and swarthy, chunky
Daniels—were of more importance because of this
tremendous looming shadow of war than they had
ever been before.
Everyday things were touched with a sharp dis-
tinction. Riding through the leisurely life of the
native town and the little European and mixed
European settlement it fringed, he felt the air heavy
with fate. Addison spoke first.
“I’m telling Clark here there’s more in this war
business than he sees,” he said heavily. “We’ll all
be in it sooner or later —up to our necks in it. A
war like no war that ever went before it. A war
with science at the back of it—the greatest war in
history. All the Powers locked in a death-grapple.”
He was always a trifle rhetorical, grandiloquent;
could never resist a dramatic touch.
He gloomed.
“I got a young son meself down in Levuka.
He’ll be going—as I’d go meself if I’d be any use.”
“I’m thinking of going, myself,” Dick said
quietly. “I’ll have my hands full before I can get
away.”
Clark gaped at him.
“Oh, hell! What’ll your wife say?”
“M y wife
thinks, as I do, that
every man will have
to take a hand if it’s
as bad as it appears.”
“I’d like to hear
Flora saying any-
thing like that,”
Clark said in simple
wonder. “H ev,
Flora!” he shouted.
“Carew here thinks
of going to the war.”
Over the little
bridge that sepa-
rated the store from
its dwelling came
Flora, the boards
creaking protestingly
under her fourteen
stone.
“Going to the
war! You, Dick?
Why ever should
you be such a fool?”
she inquired frankly.
Dick smiled
good - naturedly at
her.
“Oh, just a feel-
ing I’d like to have
a finger in the pie,”
he said non-com-
mittally. “However,
I’m not there yet. It may end as quickly as it began,
but I doubt it.”
“It won’t end so suddenly, lad,” said Addison.
“Mark my words, it won’t.”
“The war!” said Flora, suddenly shrill. “What’s
the war got to do with us folk out here, anyway?
I’d like to catch Frank saying he’d go!” She cast a
belligerent glance at her husband. “I’d let him hear
me! Anyway, why should married men go? Truly
you are a fool, Dick. If I were Ruve, you wouldn’t
be talking like this.”
Unexpectedly Laurence came again to Vunisesi.
They looked at him warily—like enemies. He came
straight to the point, as was his forthright way.
“I hear you’re thinking of doing your bit, Dick,”
he said. “Well, there’s been trouble between us, and
I’ll own I meant to do you all the harm I could.
That’s over now —this is no time for private quarrels.
I want to stand behind you—take over your place —
see that it’s run well while you’re away —buy it from
you. Whatever suits you best.”
Dick found his breath.
“It’s very good of you,” he said. “I’ll take your
offer. I’ll leave the place in your hands.”
“That’s settled, then. As for you, my girl”—her
father turned to Ruve —“I want you to come back
with me straightway to Ruvia —Vivien wants to see
you. I don’t like the look of her. I should have sent
her away—to Sydney or Auckland. But she wouldn’t
go. We could do nothing with her.”
In Ruvia, Vivien, looking more like a child than
ever, smiled up with eyes too bright from the big
bed that seemed to engulf her. Animation came into
her face ; she drew Ruve’s head down to her.
“You’ve come! I’m glad. I wanted you.”
“Darling! I didn’t know. And I’ve been so
happy —all this time. Why didn’t you send for me?”
“I wouldn’t let them. I was glad, so glad, that
you were happy. Whatever comes now, you’ve been
happy. Ruve, what are you going to do? Mamma said
Dick is going to the war.”
“Yes,” said Ruve.
‘And you? What will you do? Ruve, you would
be better with your aunt in Sydney while he’s away.”
“Dick wants that,” Ruve said. “But I don’t care
much myself where I go now.”
“It would be best for you. Will you stay with
me a little while, Ruve? It won’t be for long.”
“Perhaps,” Ruve said, “you’ll be happier when
it’s over You’ll have something left of Denny, after
all-something to live for. We could both go together
to Sydney. You know how much 1 and love to have
you and the baby with me. .
“Ah no” Vivien said. Do you think I don t
know what people would say? Perhaps I’ve done
wrong, but it doesn’t seem like that to me. But it
wouldn’t 'be fair to you and Dick. ’
“Dick would say the same as I do. He s not
narrow-minded.” .
“No, he’s not. But he doesn’t see it the same as
you do for all that. He’d never say it, but I know.
Your aunt, too! Why, she’d be horrified! You see it
all differently because you’ve lived among us, like one
of ourselves. But you’re not really there s a gulf
between, for all your understanding.”
“Dear one, I don’t blame you,” Ruve cried. But
she knew Vivien was right: loving each other as they
did, there was a gulf. To Ruve, Denny had been no
more than a sunny-tempered, good-looking, lax-
fibred lad on whom Vivien had cast hersell away.
Denny hadn’t been worth it, she thought. Perhaps
if he had lived Vivien would have found that out
for herself. But it was all too late now.
She stayed at Ruvia —and was glad that she
stayed. For ten days later Vivien died, giving birth
to a daughter who did not live out the day, It was
Ruve’s second intimate glimpse of death. Elena’s
frantic grief, old Batila bowed and tearless, her
father’s working face —these came back often to her
in days to come, when death was a word so often on
the lips of men and women ; but of Vivien herself the
“Are you teaching
me my duty—telling
me what to do?"
last memory was one of peace and beauty. So young,
so untroubled at last she looked like a beautiful
child asleep. She clung to that last memory.
A week later she and Dick were on their way
to Sydney, where he meant to enlist.
They talked of the future: Dick with optimism,
Ruve with a fearfulness she did her best to hide.
Dick wanted her to take up art again, but she
shook her head.
“As if I could —with you in danger.
“Darling, you must do something to keep you
from imagining, things you shouldn t. And this is
your great chance. D’you know, Ive never quite
forgiven myself for checking an artist in her flight to
fame.” . '
“You talk as if I were a genius.
“Well, you’ve got a lot of talent. I can see that
clearly enough. And it should be developed. I hate
to see a good thing wasted.” .
“I’d be better training as a nurse. They might
send me there, too. They’ll need so many there
won’t be nearly enough nurses.
“Good God! Don’t get that idea in your head.
I won’t have it. It .would be ten times worse to know
you were in danger. If you do that, he threatened
darkly, “I’ll fall on my own bayonet —when I get it
and be the first patient. That ought to settle you. ’
She laughed, as he had meant her to, but he could
see the idea was in her mind. He said earnestly:
“Don’t think of it, beloved. You’re to stay safe
in Sydney till I come back. And go on with art. I
want it. Throw yourself into it with all your heart
and soul. Don’t be afraid for me. I’ll come back
right enough. Don’t ever be Ruve ; courage
is°the only thing now for all of us.”
He spoke of her father.
“He’s a great old chap in his way, you know,
Ruve. It’s a pity you and he could never get on
together.”
He s hard, the girl said, her glance tar out on
the starlit sea. “I think of my mother often —of what
I’ve heard of her. She was gentle and sweet and
kind —everything he isn’t. I wonder often how she
came to marry him.”
“Your mother loved him,” Dick said. “She would
have forgiven him a great deal.”
“You mean I should. But I can’t. His hardness
is in me, too. And I think of Vivien. She might have
been alive now if he had let her have her way and
marry Denny. And he was hard on Rod. But it’s
Vivien I can’t forgive him for.”
“My dear, how did he know what - was going to
happen? He was good enough to Vivien at the last.”
“Yes —too late. No, Dick ; my father and I will
always be strangers. Don’t let us talk of him.”
But she thought of him:, his hard, rugged face
and the strange —was it half-appealing?—look in the
glance he turned on her at leaving. But she had
hardened. Dick and he shook hands heartily ; but
her kiss of duty was cold. She knew he knew she
laid Vivien’s death at his door. She was glad to see
the last of him—as he stood at the wharf’s edge, his
strong old figure dark against the morning light. The
little dinghy pushed off to the cutter, whose sail was
going up. She turned her face from Ruvia and her
father standing there, lonely, ageing—but arrogant
still in defeat.
Chapter XIX.
AUGUST of 1914 came on Roddy stealthily, with
no warning of the change it was to bring into
his life.
He and Lola were still in Levuka, that little,
pleasant town, beneath its steep hills. .
He was still in
the job he had got
through the friendly
offices of Mrs. Ben-
nett. He served be-
hind the counter of
a Levuka store, and
a grim twist marred
his mouth some-
times when he re-
flected on the
change in his for-
tunes. The work
was utterly uncon-
genial to him. He
was estranged from
his father, and his
marriage to Lola
had brought him
perceptibly closer to
the world of his
mother. But he
cared little now. Old
desires had died
when Daphne had
said those low, irre-
vocable words that
had put him for ever
out of her life. He
did not love Lola.
But she had been
merry and kind, and
the dark bloom of
her had still some
curious allure for
him.
He had begun
to drink. Drink
made him forget;
but it also .rendered
his position at the
store somewhat pre-
carious. It was
lucky that his head
stayed clear and only
his heart took fire.
Deep in the black
places of his mind remained that slow-rooting hatied
of the whites. Sometimes he turned to Lola with a
strange, hungry passion that made the light-natured
girl afraid. It was as though he wanted desperately to
make himself at one with her and her kind. Some-
thing at once strange and bitter possessed him then:
it was threatening to dominate the old sunny
Roddy, who had never worried about his own mixed
origin. Taken it for granted—though intrigued once
or twice before he had last returned to Fiji that an
ancestry like his certainly removed him from the
commonplace, endowed him with a fresh, vigorous
outlook. Perhaps that blending of races was respon-
sible for the poet in him. That was certainly
intriguing —worth thinking out. But that theory got
the first jolt when he saw again, after years of absence,
the hulking., big-mouthed Fijians on the Suva wharf,
got the strong, indefinable, oily odor of them as they
jostled sweating by in the hot sunlight.
But now that old idea of his that the men and
women in between the two races should become the
predominant —or, at least, fully equal class in the
Fiji of the future (that had once been no more to
him than a thought-provoking theory among a thou-
sand others) was obsessing him. That was not at all
to Lola’s taste. She was beginning to be weary of
Roddy and his idiotic notions. He’d get them both
into trouble if he wasn’t careful—if people began to
take him seriously. Marriage with him had not
brought her what she had expected. She had wanted
to raise herself in the social scale ; and, emphatically,
she didn’t feel that virulent hatred for the whites
Roddy seemed to think she should. She wasn t a
native —or even a kai-loma.
He glowered at her.
“They treat you like dirt, these women! What
are they —some of them? Look at you in the street
when they pass you as if you were beneath them.
“They don’t,” said Lola, annoyed. “Some of
them are very nice to me.”
o Continued on page 50.)


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[I Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt s Antacid
Powder. •
*(• On entering the stomach De Witt s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence i 3
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
fjf Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
De WITT'S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
2/6
An Amusing Goldfields Yarn:-
"Rich Stew"
By GAVIN S. CASEY
Ingredients
by Aria.
AMONG the leases cold and cheer-
less night was sponging out the
harsh colors and contours that day-
light revealed as the workings of the
mines. Men working on the surface were
heading toward boiler-houses with their
billies, stamping feet and swinging arms,
and for once envying their mates snugly
tucked away in the warm depths. It was
wintry weather, with a high wind wailing
between the poppets, and the Thomp-
sons, who were at the moment gathered
comfortably in their warm kitchen in a
happy little domestic party, were lucky.
Mrs. Thompson, lean, hard and active,
was engaged in the occupation suited to
the hour, her age, her sex and her status ;
she leaned over the stove, with her head
almost up the sooty chimney, stirring,
and from her vicinity came savory odors
The Old Man himself.
which spread peace and a sense of well-
being among the other inhabitants of the
room. At the table Ted lounged, pulling
skin off the corns on his hands with an
elongated fingernail kept specially for
the purpose. In the corner near the cup-
board Jimmy, the schoolboy, was seated
on a box with his nose in a “Deadwood
Dick.” On the floor rolled a mixture of
arms and legs that occasionally resolved
itself into two separate beings—the dog
and the baby.
Jenny, with leisurely good nature, was
placing dishes out on the table, leaving
a clear space around Ted’s elbows. And
on the sofa, a strange and aged kitchen
furnishing which years of hard service
had moulded at last to the shape of the
human body, sprawled the Old Man
himself, positively purring with pleasure.
“Well,” said the Old Man, “the luck’s
changed. I ain’t seen nothin’ but dirt
f’r so long I hardly reckernised this when
I seen it.” And he forthwith emptied into
the palm of his hand from a small,
screw-topped bottle a stream of tiny,
greyish-silver, undistinguished - looking
chips of rock.
“Telluride!” said Ted. “The dinkum
stuff! Gosh, it’s good for the eyes.
None of it where I am, worse luck.”
“Well,” contributed Jenny, with an eye
to the main chance, “if there’s as much
at the nine hundred as dad says, we ought
to all start havin’ a bit o’ fun agin soon,
anyway.”
“Fun!” snorted Mrs. Thompson.
“There’s plenty o’ things needed about
this place afore you brats start slingin’
money around on y’r fun. There’s alius
bin two bobs f’r pitchers an’ beer. Now,
p’r’aps there’ll be some f’r linos an’
clothes.”
“There’ll be some f’r everythin’,” an-
nounced the Old Man with confidence
and enthusiasm. “I never seen such a
vein. Y’ jist got to leave it to y’r old
pa. Wot’ve y’ got f’r tea, Mary?”
“A stoo,” answered the missus. “A
nice rich stoo to celebrate a bit o’ luck
at last.”
And on this note of optimism and joy
the family made a concerted move to-
ward the table.
“That’s the stuff t’ stick y’r ribs to-
gether!” commented Ted, pulling a set
of crockery and cutlery into position in
front of him. “Deal it out, ma.”
The Old Man, spilling his grains of
precious stone from one hand to the
other contentedly, lumbered toward the
head of the festive board. Jenny re-
trieved the baby after a struggle. Even
Jimmy showed interest, stuffing his paper
into a capacious pocket and shuffling
forward. The lid came off the big sauce-
pan and the powerful odor of its savory
contents flowed forth, intensified, tickling
the nostrils of an assemblage in fine
humor to eat their fill and enjoy it.
“Gosh!” rumbled the Old Man,
politely appreciative of the culinary skill
of his spouse, “that’s the smell to make
a man’s belly think his throat’s cut!”
AND then, cutting through the tran-
quillity like a reminder of all un-
pleasant things, startling everybody
except the dog and the baby into frozen
immobility, came upon the door the
thundering knock of Authority.
“Open it up, Thompson,” demanded
the voice of the Law. “Straight away,
now, an’ no nonsense.”
“Gawd!” said Ted. “The cops!”
The Old Man tottered. Pride and satis-
faction left him, like the air leaving a
blown-out tyre. His jaw sagged, and his
big, hard paw, full of that telltale kind
of ore that could have come only from
far underground, waved helplessly in the
air. But the missus, bony, practical and
quick-witted, was equal to any emer-
gency. Wordlessly, and swiftly as a
panther defending its young or a bailiff
springing at a rapidly-shrinking three
inches of open doorway, she leapt at her
lord and master. While the family col-
lected its wits she had possession of the
ore, and, faster than it can be told, she
dropped it into the great pot of stew.
“Open it y’self!” she snapped, with a
warning glare at the astonished family.
“It ain’t locked.”
Obediently, Sergeant O’Malley, of the
Gold-stealing Investigation staff, opened
it and stepped blinking into the light.
Not without cause he felt that his entry
lacked something of impressiveness, and
he was already in a mood to be nasty.
These Thompsons were all “up to the
eyes” in the business that it was his job
to stop, and now, with rich dirt uncov-
ered that very day in the level where the
Old Man worked, was certainly the time
to catch them at it. But he had bat-
tered on the door in the manner of a
resolute sleuth, and he was entering the
room more like a Simple Simon than
anything else. It made him pessimistic.
Mrs. Thompson, he saw, was stirring
at a big pot on the fire with an air of
complete indifference. The Old Man
looked less normal, but there was an air
of triumph about him that boded ill for
the success of the sergeant. Ted looked
like the village idiot. Jenny was a pic-
ture of outraged righteousness. Young
Jimmy, with the superiority of his years,
seemed to regard the whole business with
bored disdain. The dog and the baby,
who had come to grips again in the ex-
citement, were hard to sort out, and
could be disregarded in any case.
“I’ll just take a look around, Thomp-
son,” said O’Malley. “Expectin’ nothin’
o’ course, but just makin’ sure there isn’t
anything in this nice little place o’ yours
that shouldn’t be.”
“Sure, sergeant,” agreed the Old Man
expansively. “You’ll find what you say
you’re expectin’, but I know it ain’t much
use tryin’ to stop you fellers when you
gits set on a idea.”
The sergeant’s heart sank a little
further, but that did not prevent him
from making a thorough search, with the
assistance of Constable Murray. Be-
tween them they reduced the potential
life of the old sofa by half, brought
several pounds of soot down out of the
chimney, broke two cups, tramped on the
baby three times and on the dog once,
and reduced the virtuously indignant
Jenny to a state of hissing wrath. But
it was fruitless. With every nook and
corner examined, the sergeant at last
stood in front of the stove, baffled, but
still in a mood to be nasty.
The sergeant accepted.
“Now p’r’aps you’ll git out, an’ let
us have some tea,” said Jenny venom-
ously. “Disgraceful, I call it, the way
you great louts do what you like in
honest people’s houses.”
THE Old Man, too, was inclined to
gloat, but he wisely went no further
than meaning leers, keeping his mouth
shut. It was the missus, triumphant and
so far showing it least of all, who could
not resist the temptation to turn the knife
in the wound.
“Now, Jenny,” she said, “y’ve got to
let bygones be bygones. The sergeant’}
got to do his duty, an’ very unpleasant it
must be sometimes. Most uncomfort-
able for him, I should say, besides bein'
kept late for his own meal. But perhaps
he’d stay an’ have a bite o’ nice rich
stoo with us?”
And to their horror the sergeant
accepted.
“Don’t mind if I do,” he announced
gruffly to the accompaniment of glares
directed at the missus by the whole
family.
What followed is painful to relate.
O’Malley, a big man and a messy eater,
planted himself in a chair with a dread-
ful air of permanence and, after sending
Murray home, expanded into horrifying
joviality. Mrs. Thompson, “dishing up,”
suffered tortures skimming the surface
from the stew with her ladle, and yet
having to stir it a little, for fear the
bottom would burn out of the pot. Ted’s
resemblance to the village idiot became
more pronounced. The Old Man was
in a state of almost complete collapse.
Jenny, serving, trembled. Except for the
dog and the baby, only Jimmy was un-
concerned ; his lofty detachment was
colossal.
“Good stoo!” said O’Malley, ladling it
into his mouth with vigor.
The first to encounter something hard
in a mouthful was Ted, and the mental
strain of deciding whether it was bone,
which could be removed, or telluride,
which must be swallowed, became visible.
His brow beaded with sweat, and his eyes
goggled. He clenched his teeth on the
hard substance, and cast an appealing
look at his father. The Old Man
frowned. His eyes entreated his mother.
She glared. Then he gulped, and, what-
ever it was, it was gone. He tittered
foolishly, and the family frowned blackly
at him. But the sergeant was too busy
to notice.
Then a crunching like a mine cracker
on a mammoth rock informed the coldly
perspiring family that the policeman’s
turn had come.
“Little bit o’ bone,” announced the
sleuth between his teeth. “Hard to keep
out of a stoo.” Without further cere-
mony he turned his head, pursed his lips
and spat. On the floor, behind him and
out of sight, landed an ounce or so of
gravy and a small fragment of solid. The
family sighed with relief.
The dog, ever appreciative of small
offerings, pounced happily from beneath
the table, and licked up the gravy with
enthusiasm. But it betrayed a fastidious-


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“DROUGHT AT
WOOLBALE INN,”
by
BET. GOODWIN.
H
4
i
&
A
'
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 George St., 59 William St.
Sydney Melbourne.
(mMlumduithulamiMwnfuM
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
February Issue Now on Sale.
ARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
THE CEMENT INDUSTRY.
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS.
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £11216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
n\o
RURAL BANK
OF JVEW SOUTH WALES
* Fixed deposits
accepted at the
following rates*.
1 par cent per annum for 3 months
ii u it u a ii a #
ii u * 12 u
2£#
2i«
u 24
ness it had never before exhibited. It
refused the solid, after it had licked it
clean. The little slug of telluride was
left, glittering in the light, and the family
began to fidget.
Then the baby crawled out, and, with
intelligence beyond its years, picked up
the incriminating evidence and immedi-
ately swallowed it. The family, sighed
with relief again. The baby and the dog
licked their chops.
By the time every plate was clean, the
Old Man estimated that the family would
assay over fen ounces to the ton, with
himself showing top value, worth £4 or
more, and the baby ready to crush for a
little over expenses. But the sergeant had
Swallowed it.
enjoyed his meal, suspecting nothing, and
everybody was beginning to be happy
again.
“Good stoo!” said O’Malley for the
fifth time. “Damn’ good stoo! Never
git anythin’ like it at the boardin’-house.
Could y’ spare a little more, Mrs. Thomp-
son?”
The sergeant’s mean mood had passed.
He was fed and happy, and he bore no
venom toward the Thompsons. But had
he drawn his official revolver and slain
the dog and the baby and any reason-
able number of the family’s adult mem-
bers, he could not have created greater
consternation.
“I —I —l’ll see if there’s any left,”
quavered the missus, blue with fright.
“Jist the dregs’ll do,” comforted
O’Malley. “A bit o’ gravy from the
bottom o’ the pot. It’s the rich gravy a
man likes after livin’ on hash-house
tucker for so long. Good, rich gravy!”
He smacked his lips.
The family had thought that they had
already suffered the ultimate in torture.
But when the sergeant set to work on the
rich gravy from “the bottom o’ the pot,”
they realised that what had gone before
was as nothing to the excruciating misery
of sitting helpless, watching him mop up
the thick brown liquid that was posi-
tively riddled with “values.” As has been
said, the sergeant was a messy eater, and
by and by a heavy stream of the gravy
commenced to trickle down his chin.
Petrified with fright, the family saw that,
borne strongly upon this current of
nourishment, was a tiny speck of telluride.
It fascinated them. Owlishly they
watched while it coursed through the
stubbly hairs and eventually dropped off
on to his shirt-front. There it stuck,
gleaming dully like the head of a nugget
tiepin. The family, variously and accord-
ing to their sexes and temperaments,
wanted urgently to scream, murder, com-
mit hara-kiri and sink into the bowels
of the earth (not in search of telluride).
When the sergeant, now affable and
talkative, had mopped up the last of his
gravy with a crust of bread his strange
and interesting ornament still clung to
his bosom, and the family was limp with
terror.
“Well, Mrs. Thompson,” said O'Malley,
rising, “I hope there’s no ill-will. Sure
there’s not on my part, after such a
good feed.”
Becoming aware of something soft
beneath his feet, he looked down and, for
the first time since the search, saw the
baby. He picked it up in a manner mas-
terly for a bachelor policeman.
“Hullo, young ’un,” he said. “Fine
little bloke, ain’t you?”
But the baby, unused to flattery though
it was, was now in no mood to appre-
ciate it. Its eyes, all its attention and
all its hopes were fixed upon a small
object in the middle of the sergeant’s
mighty chest.
“Goo!” it said, and reached for the
attractive edible. The family found
breathing painful.
The baby, however, proved itself to
be a true Thompson. Its chubby palm
closed over the slug, and remained very
much a fist until it was somewhere in
the neighborhood of its tonsils. Then
it opened, and, simultaneously with a rise
to almost double in the treatment value
of the infant, the last scrap of evidence
against the family disappeared.
“Cripes!” said the sergeant. “I believe
he’s eatin’ me shirt buttons. Tackle
anythin’, these kids, won’t they?”
Lightheaded in their relief the family
agreed. They dithered until the sergeant
stared, and worried not, for dithering
was now safe. They fussed over the
baby as it had never been fussed over
before. And as soon as the sergeant had
gone they kicked the dog with one
accord (for causing them that indescrib-
able moment when the first piece of tel-
luride had been exposed) and turned
upon Mrs. Thompson with impassioned
reproaches (for having opened her mouth
and put her foot in it).
“Well, damn you,” said the missus,
who was quite capable of defending her-
helf, “if it’d bin left to you half-wits he’d
’ave found th’ lot in y’r dad’s hand, any-
way. We’re safe, thanks to me an’ the
baby, an’ I’ve got a pain in me stummick
that’s quite enough without you mob
yellin’.”
“So’ve I,” said Ted. “Jist a little bit
of a one.”
“Don’t feel so good meself,” said
Jenny. “Comes of eatin’ telluride. I
s’pose it makes a stoo too rich alto-
gether. Hope the flatfoot gits one, too.”
“I’ll never eat no telluride agin,” swore
the missus.
“My oath you won’t,” said the Old
Man, still sweating with relief. “There
ain’t never goin’ to be no more in this
house, to eat or anythin’ else —not if we
never has no linos, or noo clothes or
pitchers or beer neither.”
The baby cooed happily. Its diges-
tive powers seemed to be remarkable.
But, on the principle that prevention is
better than cure, Mrs. Thompson tucked
it wearily under her arm and headed for
the castor-oil bottle on the mantelpiece.
Silver in Black.
Through deep-sea weeds whose sap is
silence
laps the black glimmer of night and
sleep,
and we in this dark undulation of water
are flooded with languor, cool and
deep.
Love! though we lie with rocks and
wrecks
where only death and fishes roam,
too deep to care that a wild moon flecks
silver and rose the roof of foam ;
too deep, too deep ever more to mark
on weird fields the black light thrill
to the silver fife of an early lark
and tense to a menace of thin blue
steel,
we keep our Silver-in-Black. Ah, now
through the deep-sea weeds whose blood
is silence
desire, a ripple of sharper dark,
burns in the dimness, the dumb weeds
swish.
Stark hungers loom, and your passions go
shark-like, immense, through the swirl-
ing gloom,
and, maddened, the doomed and silver fish
leaps from his weea-lair, black below.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A STEWART.
These Are the Passing Hours.
These are the passing hours that take
from earth
The music of its words, its silence
speaking,
Its rain that washes, sings, its flowers
breaking,
Its beauty that has died, since knowing
birth.
These, too, were born, know little
moments, go
The way that was not known . we know
not yet;
And we shall follow, tireless with regret
But full of wonder, either false or
true . . .
Yet who knows, right or wrong, they
strike asunder
The knowledge of the soul, and break
the heart
And teach life’s motion, if they tear apart
Its placid order with their cries of
thunder ?
These are the strong hours passing,
knowing not
Their own, but, having, learn what they
forgot.
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
A.T. DAGUIO.


Delta Engineers Announce
New SCROLL SAW
■
m
mmsk
0
Send for our Illustrated
Delta Booklet —Post Free.
THE LAST WORD IN
MODERN SCROLL SAWS
COME IN
TODAY
cjnd /ice. the/ie
DELTA
TOOLS
—a precision tool that will stand up splendidly under the Heavy grind ot continuous Heavy work.
sign and display makers, printers, engravers. Come in and see this remarka) e oo in ac
Basically different from any Scroll Saw on the market. At 1800 strokes per minute the Delta
Scroll Saw has such perfect balance, such absence of vibration, that a pencil can be stood on e
tipping o'™r. Operates with finest tajelle*. blade .tMI
Produces smooth, accurate work. Has many special features. The New Delta Scroll Sau can also
be used for filing, sanding and boning.
A COMPLETE LINE OF MOTOR-DRIVEN TOOLS
Delta Quality Tools Give Spare Time Pleasure and Profits!
These new motor-driven tools have revolutionised woodworking. JJ 0W > and low
Delta Tools are available for all those who work with wood for bobby, * J P«e money and 1
factory production. Compact, practical, sturdy—these motor-driven tools , -
labor, and enable even a beginner to turn out professional quality w °J*- nin presses Borne
Grinders, Shapers, Jointers, Circular Saws, Band Saws, Woodturning Bathes, Drill Presses, Boring,
Kouting, Sanding and Mortising Attachments, and a complete line of accessories.
Come in To-day for Demonstration.
c
Proprietary Limited
51-65 BATHURST ST SYDNEY
582-592 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
116-130 WAYMOUTH ST., ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY ST PERTH
An Appealing Animal Story:-
BINATANG.
BY A. COLLEGE.
BINATANG’S mother was shot down
from a bilian-tree by a tourist. The
murderer was a guest of Sandy
McNab, doyen of the Upper Manaitu
planters. The explosive bullet that ended
the unfortunate orang-outang’s life barely
grazed a suckling infant. Dislodged by
the fall, it turned wondering red-rimmed
eyes on the slayer. The shot and the
ape’s dying shriek brought Sandy hot-
foot out of his estate office.
“Mon, what a hellish thing to do!
The puir beast was tame: we’ve fed it
ever since the male was killed by anither
bluidy-minded globetrotter like yersel’.”
“I’m sure sorry”
The indignant Scot tenderly lifted the
squealing mite.
“Sorry! I ken your type. You’d like
fine to be photographed wi’ one foot
on the ‘kill,’ or maybe you’re ettling to
shoot the wean as well,” barked the dis-
gusted planter.
The tourist stood uncertainly, then
turned away.
“If that’s the way you feel about it
I guess I’ll be on my way.”
“Ay, you’d better be on your way,”
mimicked Sandy, “doon the river, and
I hope the crocs, get you,” he shouted.
“And now what can I do wi’ the wee
beast?” muttered McNab as he carried
the whimpering youngster into his bun-
galow.
The problem was solved by drawing
on the combined experience of sundry
giggling Malay matrons. Somehow the
orphan was nursed
until normal wean-
ing time. They
christened the “wee
beast” in the ver-
nacular —Binatang.
Binatang grew
rapidly, and soon
gave promise of ex-
ceptional int e 11 i-
gence. In adoles-
cence his expression
became one of almost human benignity.
He displayed the mischievous proclivities
of a healthy child, but tempered his
boisterous vitality with gentle actions
which bespoke love and consideration
for his foster-father.
Whether as the result of unusually
nutritious diet or from hereditary robust-
ness, full grown, Binatang was huge. His
strength was colossal. The characteristic
cheek flaps and throat pouches of the
adult, and the red hair which covered
his limbs and torso, gave him a truly
terrifying appearance. In one particular
he was abnormal: when roused he could
move with lightning rapidity. His speed
in action bore no trace of the natural
sluggishness of his species.
McNab taught his pet something of
jiu-jitsu and boxing ; he also taught him
to shake hands: beyond these accom-
plishments the ape learned no tricks.
The planter realised that some day Bina-
tang must fend for himself. Sandy had
no intention that his orang-outang should
end its days behind the bars of a cage.
He encouraged the ape to play in the
jungle and acquire agility and tree-craft.
Sandy spent many patient hours with
Binatang showing him how to construct
from crude jungle materials the typical
platform nest of his kind. He taught
him to build, dismantle and rebuild
a suitable habitation. As a concession
to his pupil’s semi-civilised life a thatched
attap roof was added. During the rainy
season this precaution saved Binatang
from the chills and ague which frequently
attack his brethren.
Binatang’s nest was built in the
planter’s compound, and he seemed con-
tent to occupy it in preference to the
greater comfort of the bungalow.
Sandy was at pains to show Binatang
the difference between poisonous fruits
and berries and the wholesome staples
which were necessary for his sustenance.
By pantomime and gesture he demon-
strated the dire consequences of an un-
wise choice.
As time passed the bonds of affection
between the planter and his strange ward
were strengthened: the pair were in-
separable.
ONE sad day McNab, white-faced and
delirious, staggered up the verandah
steps and collapsed in his cane chair. In
gasping, broken sentences he told the
horrified servants that he had been bitten
by a king cobra! He died within the
hour.
A hastily-summoned neighbor made
the necessary arrangements, to the
accompaniment of indignant howls from
Binatang, who, for good reasons, was
under temporary restraint in the office.
That evening they dug Sandy’s last
resting-place, deep in the shade of a
spreading banyan, overlooking the river
beside which his simple, inoffensive years
of exile had been spent.
Released, Binatang wandered discon-
solately about the bungalow, and finally
subsided in a corner of the verandah. At
intervals he voiced his grief in unearthly
sobbing howls.
For several days the ape refused food,
and regarded the native boys with
gloomy indifference. Late one night they
heard a crash in the bungalow followed
by the same bloodcurdling howls, and
in the morning, to their relief, they found
he had disappeared.
After leaving the Manaitu district
Binatang wandered deep into the jungle,
where his real education began. He had
the natural inquisitiveness of the ape,
but combined with it a highly-developed,
almost human intelligence. Curiosity
prompted his desire for knowledge, but,
unchecked, it became dangerous. He
soon discovered that many sinister
enemies threatened his comfort his
very existence.
When from darkened skies a tropical
deluge burst over the jungle, his impulse
to cower under the shelter of matted
undergrowth must be inhibited. That
sinuous, iridescent shape, slithering noise-
lessly along the ground, was favorably
placed to whip around him its lethal coils
and crush with a force against which
even his great strength could never pre-
vail. Tightly wedged in the deep cavity
left by the taproot of a storm-plucked
forest giant, he could grinningly defy the
strongest python.
In his loiterings across the swamp land
Binatang learnt a sharp lesson, nearly
at the cost of his life. Using an over-
hanging mangrove bough as a hand
bridge, he noticed a loglike object in
the creek below, almost imperceptibly
moving against the current. For a split
second his foot rested on this treacher-
ous support. The reflex jerk of perfectly
co-ordinated muscles barely cheated the
snapping jaws of a giant crocodile!
Trembling in a safe tree, he watched the
remorseless saurian drift purposefully up
to a drinking water-buffalo. A flash of
cruel yellow teeth, and, snout first, the
bellowing animal was dragged into the
yeasty depths.
BINATANG seemed possessed by an
aimless wanderlust. Into the wester-
ing sun, across plains knee-deep in
coarse lalang grass, through lofty moun-
tain gorges, he came at last to the mighty
Kinabatangan. From a high bank he
saw the tidal bore crash up river, leaving
in its wake death and wreckage thrown
high in the fringing mangroves.
Turning from the turgid stream he
wandered on. At times he passed close
to the Land Dyak’s thatched, many-
doored houses. The little brown men
aimed their long, slender blowpipes, the
deadly sumpitan, from which sped
venomous darts that buzzed round him
like angry wasps. Seemingly invulner-
able, Binatang passed on, leaping and
crashing his way through the forest.
Some tribal instinct now seems to have
guided the lonely ape. One day he was
conscious of a growing, indefinable ex-
citement. Coincident with his movements
the blended jungle noises ceased, as
though the myriad sound-producing
animals and insects were uncomfortably
alert. And thus he came, at long last,
to the colony of the great red orangs.
It was evening. The forest was hushed.
At intervals he heard the deep booming
hoots of his kind and saw their nests
high in the trees that clothed a moun-
tain slope.
His advent was the signal for a tor-
nado of angry howls. Discouraged at
such a hostile reception, he selected a tree
at a distance from the clustering nests
and built a super-abode. He bound the
platform saplings with monkey-cup
creepers, which shrank as they dried,
forming a firm structure over which he
erected a roof.
The envious males hissed their scorn
at this sybaritic innovation, but monkey
maidens, attracted by the novelty,
climbed adjoining trees and chattered
vociferously.
Sandy had taught Binatang to box and
build houses, he had taught the ape
many things, but he was unable to teach
him the language of his progenitors.
The tongue clicks and pouting-lip
sounds, the harsh gutturals, barks and
hisses conveyed nothing to the man-
reared anthropoid. The unwitting re-
cluse could only stare dumbly at his
garrulous visitors.
When he swung groundwards in search
of food ogling females followed his brief
excursions or coyly intercepted his pro-
gress through the sorghum patches. The
jilted males gave him a wide berth and
voiced their jealous rage in strident
howls. A shower of assorted missiles
greeted his approach to their nests.
Binatang’s supreme test was now at
hand. The orang-outang chief, accom-
panied by a horde of chattering relatives,
returned triumphantly from successfully
pillaging the corn and bananas of the
Dusuns. He was soon made acquainted
with the state of affairs. The interloper’s
pretentious dwelling, his proud taciturn-
ity and fatal sex appeal constituted an in-
supportable challenge to the angry ruler.
He rushed over to Binatang’s tree, beat
his enormous chest in a frenzy of scream-
ing rage and climbed upward.
Binatang met the roaring fury on his
platform, from which the infuriated chid
vainly attempted to eject him. Hi>
trained intelligence, speed and you:“
saved him from annihilation. A crue;
uppercut unsteadied the chief and left
him wide open for a terrific savate .
which caught him flush on the so -
plexus and toppled him head downwards
from the tree.
The tribe gathered round the deac
body, gibbered and howled dolefully, but
none attempted to climb up and dispute
the victor’s hard-won crown.


New Serial —
“THE BRIDLE TRACK
by J. J. Hardie,
will commence
MARCH 11.
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
in
FIT * * V-
T7I7HY work in your own
V " shadow? If there were a
Mazda lamp over your kitchen
range you’d save yourself
endless bother and trouble.
MLSO
T-H
THE PERFECT
ELECTRIC LAMP
FOR GOOD LIGHT AT EVERY POINT
*1
INGOT Riding Breeches and Jodphurs are
right in style, right in cut, right in quality,
moderate in price. Into every stitch, seam
and curve goes the experience that comes from
a lifetime of outfitting the equestrienne.
These hard-wearing garments will keep their
shape and color after repeated washings.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
Binatang nursed his wounds in sullen
resentment. With their healing the com-
pelling instinct that had guided him to his
forebears’ haunts was replaced by a nos-
talgia—a yearning for the scenes of his
youth and the society of human beings.
The days of brooding culminated in a fit
of berserk rage. He tore the nest apart,
hurled the debris in all directions, and
with long, swinging leaps disappeared
into the jungle.
Binatang travelled fast', always in the
direction of McNab’s estate. It was the
rainy season, and his recent ordeal had
left him ill-fitted for exposure and
strenuous effort. In his haste he ate
nothing, but drank deep from tarn and
freshet.
Unconsciously he crossed trackless
wastes, while the fever mounted and in
his brain was bred a strange hallucina-
tion. In every pool appeared the face of
Sandy. He saw the bungalow, and float-
ing in the swamp mist his master’s
wraith— beckoning, always receding, a
fata Morgana.
The fever, starvation cured, abated;
and familiar landmarks guided him to
the plantation. He entered the com-
pound to find that the bungalow had dis-
appeared ; removed by the new owners
of the estate to their up-river head-
quarters. Awhile he stood silently be-
neath the banyan, then followed the river
path which led to Manaitu.
Binatang’s encounter with Ngtak the
Dyak was painful. Ngtak was bound for
the settlement to replenish his stock of
tobacco. Loping along the narrow track
he heard a rustling in the jungle and
turned to investigate. To his horror he
saw a huge red orang-outang descend
from the trees and—contrary to custom
—come straight for him. Ngtak drew
his parang, slashed wildly, and fled for
his life.
THE operating surgeons at St. Wini-
fred’s always credited Sister Temple-
ton with spring-steel nerves, and were
genuinely sorry when the charming nurse
left Sydney to keep house for her brother,
the Resident of Manaitu.
Madge Templeton’s nerves were
severely tested when, awakening from an
after-dinner doze, her eyes rested on a
formidable-looking orang-outang, squat-
ting sedately on the verandah.
The girl stared in incredulous amaze-
ment. Her brother was out tuba fishing
and would return late ; the servants were
asleep in their distant quarters. Her
thoughts raced as she lay motionless in a
long rattan chair. She felt the first symp-
toms of panic—then reason prevailed.
Surely a wild orang-outang, with its well-
known fear of human beings, would
never venture into a European house.
In a flash of comprehension she re-
membered the story of McNab’s pet.
Madge sat up. “Binatang,” she ventured
shakily.
The ape gave a soft bark and slowly
extended its hand. On the forearm was
a deep, angry-looking cut.
Complete mistress of herself Madge
Templeton, the nurse, rose unhesitat-
ingly and approached the wounded ape.
She carefully examined the cut, hurried
to the kitchen and brought hot water and
a first-aid outfit.
Binatang endured unflinchingly while
Madge cleaned and dressed the wound.
After the bandaging he sat for some time
stolidly regarding the girl. The sound
of Templeton’s car startled him into
activity: he leapt over the verandah rail
and disappeared into the darkness.
After his first appearance Binatang fre-
quently visited the Templeton home, and
in time they grew accustomed to his
appearances. During Madge’s evening
walks the ape would suddenly emerge,
somewhere along the path, and greet
his benefactor with every sign of pleasure.
He would follow silently in her wake, a
grim, uncouth guardian, and soon the in-
congruous pair ceased to attract notice
in the small settlement.
The Resident, at first, was mildly
amused, but became uneasy.
“Binatang may be tame, and no doubt
Sandy trained him well, but after a spell
in the jungle there’s always a tendency
to run amok,” he warned.
Madge laughed.
“Amok ! Binatang is not a Malay
he’s civilised.”
Templeton shmgged his shoulders.
“Maybe—but I don’t see much sense
in making a pet of a full-grown orang-
outang.”
“Why not? He’s good company.”
Templeton was dubious.
“What’ll happen when you go home?
You can’t take him back to Sydney. It
seems cruel to encourage the ape, then
desert him —unless you send him to the
Zoo.”
Madge considered this.
“He’s bound to go back to the jungle
again; same as he did after Sandy’s
death. He didn’t starve then, and he
won’t now.”
“It’s not that, he gets very little from
the house as it is; but these half-wild
beasts are apt to take queer turns,” said
the Resident uneasily.
The subject was dropped and, accom-
panied by her strange companion, Madge
continued her jungle walks. Binatang
always left the girl at the compound gate
and disappeared into the surrounding
jungle. They never found his sleeping
place, but guessed that it was somewhere
near the bungalow.
Elated at the success of his cowardly
act, Ngtak arrived in due course at the
settlement and proceeded to enjoy him-
self. The Dyak loved arrack, but not
those who sold it: Chinese storekeepers
were his particular aversion.
When the portly Ah Kam refused him
more drink, Ngtak drew his parang and
chased the terrified Celestial round the
store. Vaulting over herring barrels and
packing cases in his endeavor to escape
the arrack-maddened Dyak, Ah Kam’s
piercing shrieks brought the police at the
double. Four burly Sikh constables
were necessary to arrest Ngtak, and not
one escaped injury.
In court the next morning Templeton
sentenced the culprit to three months’
imprisonment in the fort gaol: a terrible
punishment for this son of the wilds.
During the trial Madge sat on the
bench with her brother, while Ngtak
glared malevolently at both Europeans.
Twelve weeks of brooding fanned the
Dyak’s resentment into a flame of bitter
hatred that could only be quenched by
a method traditional to his race.
As a child Ngtak had played with
skulls captured by his predatory ances-
tors: stout warriors who, in the happy
bygone days, were unhampered by the
invading white man’s absurd ideas about
the sanctity of human life. In Ngtak’s
generation frequent punitive expeditions
had discouraged the racial custom of add-
ing fresh heads to the family ridge-pole.
In Ngtak, the inherent ambition had lain
dormant: a vague ideal for the future.
His punishment roused the clamoring
devil of revenge, and he came out of
gaol determined to settle with the
Resident.
He would do so in two stages; first
reprisal, then revenge. Madge Temple-
ton’s head, suitably cured, must join the
family heirlooms ; then, after a decent in-
terval, he would decapitate the Resident.
Ngtak felt that two such important
trophies would give him some standing
in the village.
For some days after his liberation the
Dyak lurked in the jungle near the Resi-
dent’s bungalow. He carefully recon-
noitred the ground and studied the habits
of Templeton’s household.
He chose a still, dark night for his
attempt. Crouched at the jungle edge
he watched the Resident lock up and
saw the girl go to her room ; noting its
position he waited patiently.
It was past midnight when Ngtak de-
cided to act. Naked, save for a tight
loincloth, with razor-sharp parang
clenched in his teeth, the Dyak crept
noiselessly across the compound. Oppo-
site the girl’s room he paused, his heart
pounding with excitement. He glanced
upward, grasped the wooden trellis and
started to climb.
Death, swift and silent, dropped out
of the darkness! The Dyak’s neck was
broken before his falling body reached
the ground. There was a muffled worry-
ing noise and silence.
Then Binatang made his lamentable
mistake. Wild with exultation he climbed
to the verandah rail outside Madge’s
room and raised a loud sorak —his paean
of victory. Beating his chest he shat-
tered the silence with a succession of
deafening roars. , . .
Rudely awakened, Madge shrieked her
contribution to the pathetic misunder-
standing. , ,__ . ,
The bewildered Resident, roused from
a deep sleep by the awful racket, hastily
grabbed torch and revolver and dashed
on the verandah. In the torch beam Bina-
tang looked a fearsome object. Temple-
ton jumped to the wrong conclusion and
hastily pulled the trigger: too late he
heard his sister’s agonised “Don’t!”
The stricken ape shuddered, collapsed
and crashed to the ground.
Sorrowfully contemplating Binatang’s
motionless body, Madge Templeton felt
that she had plumbed the depths of re-
morse—until they found Ngtak, his dead
hand clenched round the hilt of a head-
hunter’s parang.
At daybreak the Resident, shame-
faced, carrying pick and shovel, crept
out surreptitiously to perform the last
sad duty. Binatang had vanished!
On the lower slopes of distant Kina
Balu is a colony of orang-outangs. In
a solitary tree the chief sits and broods,
The stunning scalp wound has left a
disfiguring blue scar, but, unhealed, in
Binatang’s heart is another, a deeper
wound.
Our Place.
This is our place.
What are the green woods and the silver
streams ?
A veil before His Face,
A dream He dreams.
Leviathan in the unfathomed ocean,
By the deep fountains of the darkening
seas,
The golden panther walking through the
trees,
Stars in their motion,
We are as these,
This is our place.
Here, by the grace,
Wheat in the fields and cider from the
press,
S.A.
And the warm mill above the foaming
race,
And kindliness,
Green shoot and the full ear and flashing
feather ;
From Winter’s procreant dark the living
seed
Sprung of his strange and all-mysterious
need
Now is fulfilled in the high summer
weather.
The light is hidden of His infinite
yearning :
A veil before His Face,
The shadow of His grace,
Earth, sea and sky.
But, oh ! the hush is burning.
D.P. McGUIRE.


1
More miles per gallon proved with
POWER
This Plymouth
did 31.31 miles
per gallon
Roval ADTOMOBI.p
° F AVs TRALIA VB
. . ********
saOL-tw-
■' an- • “»■«. ' ’"**
•• ‘■nui.’ST*-ikM.
H
*** ****'** '•° rr **U4)
®P OO d of so o't .
52 -87 m loB
•^iBSAfiBPuEL
p ®i- Hour
i':*—
Is
IPI
m
IlKw P^WHSSSS® 3 *' _
Mil
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“E.W.L.”: Compared with arrak (B.
5/2/’36) mastik belongs to the soft-drink
section. Whilst bringing the Armenian
contingent down to Mespot after the
Armistice we struck a bad patch
of weather, resulting in fireless camps
and short rations. Thoroughly wet
through one night, my pal decided
to try the effect of the local (n.-w. Per-
sian) brand of arrak. Being an ex-pre-
war Tommy, ex-R.A.N. and ex-North
Queensland native, he reckoned that two
reasonable nips would make life a bit
more cheerful. The effect was immediate
and striking—he went right out to it, and
slept like a hog for 13 hours. Ques-
tioned next day, he reckoned that it had
been made of barbed wire and chain
lightning.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: When “Walkabout” says (B.
29 /1 / ’36) that the convoy of wounded
en route to Romani after the Bir el Abd
action was under the care of a Tommy
corporal who had it turned round and
headed for the enemy again until spotted,
I fancy his memory plays him false. Big
convoys like that are not left to the care
of corporals, and the road trodden—a
highway of war and commerce for 5000
years or so —is fairly easy to follow.
I hunted through the convoy for a
wounded friend at Ograhtina, half-way
between Bir el Abd and Romani, and if
was still going strong, away from Jacko.
As it was pitch dark half an hour after
the Anzac M.D. dropped back from* the
Slave’s Well, I cannot see how Royston,
who should have been miles away with
his brigade, could have encountered that
corporal. And were there any “choom”
troops, ambulance or otherwise, on that
stunt? I except the Territorial R.H.A.
batteries, of course. It was the Anzac
M.D.’s private job, and that force was
well equipped with it's own ambulance
unit.
-- * * *
“Kwakprak”: Denmark (B. 5/2/’36)
appears to be less progressive in medical
knowledge than one had imagined, if it
is the practice to judge legal questions
of paternity on the color of a baby’s eyes.
Most babies of European stock are born
with eyes of the same color, faint blue-
grey ; the permanent iris-tint develops
later. Blood-groups afford the nearest
approach to definite scientific evidence in
cases of disputed paternity. Group four
is the commonest, and if both parents
belong to it all their children will also
belong. A group-one parent may have
children in any group. Group member-
ship is inherited from birth, never alters,
and follows the Mendelian law. About
25 per cent, of paternity cases can be
settled fairly definitely in this way, and
a reasonable basis of conclusion ob-
tained in another 10 or 15 per cent.
* * * *
“Shep”: Flanders had a brew of tea
all of its own—and a fearsome thing it
was. After their perpetual coffee-drink-
ing, I was astonished when I had an
attack of ’flu to be asked by a sym-
pathetic madame if I would care for a
drink of tea. I thought it looked a queer
brand ; after a few gulps I started to up-
braid madame for palming senna-tea on
me. She had never heard of that mix-
ture, and explained that what I had been
drinking was purely medicine concocted
from an assortment of leaves Flemish
people gathered and dried themselves. As
proof that they didn’t fancy any sort of
tea as. a beverage they had no teapot.
* * * *
By one who has met him:
Edward VIII. 15 years ago had a striking
likeness to the portraits of Edward VI., who
died at 16, but was already accounted a young
man of ample mind and firm will. He is
small but well made, and his somewhat
neutral coloring does not allow his photo-
graphs to do justice to his strong breadth of
jaw. His eyes are wide-set and honest, and
he has a habit, when interested, of fixing the
person he is talking to with a meditative stare.
He does not laugh easily, but has the gift of
humor. “Have you a camera?” he asked a
startled Queenslander who met him informally
for the first time. “No, sir,” said the visitor.
H.R.H. expressed his thankfulness. He said
that since he had landed in Australia nearly
everybody had tried to photograph him,
and he mused good-humoredly on the
possibility that future generations might
be born with a natural lens attach-
ment which, he said, would “leave their
hands free to defend themselves in crowds.”
He struck one as being highly strung—he has
a habit when tired of putting a hand to the
back of his head with a quick, nervous move-
ment; but in a month of continual boring
ceremony, speechmaking, travel and impor-
tunity this was the only sign he showed of
impatience. As a horseman, he seemed more
daring than efficient, but on a rackets court
he showed surprising stamina and speed. He
speaks well and clearly, but with more accent
than his father —one notes a slightly rising
inflection and a peculiar slurring of open
vowels. Generally, he seemed to me a most
unobtrusively-groomed but highly-trained and
mentally-cfficient young man, gifted with de-
cision. And his staff was ready to swear to
his will-power.
Answers to Correspondents
/Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C. Cuddle: Scarcely what we want....
A. : No straw in “Bricks” E.L.M.:
“Shot” suggests that you never were. Those
impressions are mostly fictitious... .E.R.1.: Not
quite hopeless, yet some way from hopeful.
Try to get rid of commonplace phrases and
overworked expressions A.K..: There’s a
hint of promise in it, but your verse lacks
swing and tinkle 8.D.: Murphy’s annual
bust has no features to distinguish it from a
thousand others... .J.S.: Needs more polish.
. ...A.S.A.: A catchy ending, but the theme
is an old one... .C.M.E.: Still, we can’t hear
Kathleen and Lucille talking in that florid
strain... .0.H.E.: Cheer up, there’ll be another
boom some day T. 8.: It doesn’t rise out
of the rut of mediocrity... .L.K.M.A.: You
can put words together prettily, but that isn’t
quite enough A.G.M.:
On the coast near Narooma
Where Zane Grey lost a boomer.
That’s sufficient H. 8.: Your picture of
the Springboks
Offering hopeless resistance against the devilish skill
Of those demon bowlers known as Olarrie and Bill,
Two googlie fiends who work as a pair
As they toss their wrong ’uns up in the air.
raises a doubt whether you would ever earn
your bread as a cricket reporter... .E.McC.:
Alleged humor imperceptible... .P.M.: No luck
this time... .V.P.M.: There is humor, but it
wanders off and is lost in a mass of verbiage.
....C.G.S.: Even the 400 inverted commas
you’ve scattered around couldn’t make them
stories... .H.L.8.H.: Yarns about a man with a
mocking laugh are rarely any g00d... .R.N.:
Might raise a polite titter if told by the vicar
at a tea-meeting... .V.P.: Russian sketch well
enough done, but not suitable... .J.E.8.: That
gramophone-record stunt has been worked too
often... .R.H. (M.L.): Not up to your usual.
. ...C.C.: Getting a story out of that theme is
about as easy as trying to sweep canaries’
feathers against a cyclone... .5.8.: “The
Yahoo” was shot on sight—into the w.p.b
L.E. (U.S.A.): Far too melodramatic, and
you are a bit weak on Australian geography.
....J.8.: Morbid and depressing... .E.M.E.:
Nice thought, but the treatment wasn’t quite
convincing... .R.W.: The farmer gives up the
game and then sneaks back to Strawberry.
It’s a worn-out theme E.K.: Correct in
form, but lifeless A.G.: Didn’t get a kick
out of Darlinghurst revels... .H.A.G.: Doesn’t
ring the bell R. 1.: Not quite suitable—
K. : Not even a forced landing; just a
straightout crash... .S.D.R.: Off the track....
G.J.H.: Bunyips are definitely off our menu.
. ...A.E.P.: You don’t suggest a remedy
E.W.M.: Even the sadness of the occasion
doesn’t make “palace” rhyme with “race”
D.M.: Doubt whether it could be said of our
late monarch, or any other, that he “Free
pardon gave to all who pardon asked”....
Jae: A very good joke. In fact, it was one
of the best in our Christmas Number, 1934.
F.B.F.: A smart idea, but we dislike
gangster feuds... .G.W. : “Thirst-quenching
Episode” didn’t live up to its name... .J.M.8.:
The meek little man defied his boss, and then
found it was a dream. Where has that plot
been hiding all these years? J.M.W.: Fell
at the turn... .D.V.: W.p.b... . .1.L.M.:
You’re right; it can’t. But it gets mighty close
at times J.H.: Thanks for support, but if
you like us, stick to prose... .Ginger: “I never
knew,” “sweet as you,” “tender,” “surrender
and so on —a clear case of Hollywood love-
song complex... .C.R.N.:
Soul who art weary with the bitterness of life's
hurt.
Take this for consolation out of all else which life
denies.
Whisper softly your swift question to the night
wind—
“ Has our brief ecstasy fled thus, O my beloved?”
We prefer “Bellerive”... .Donvab: Neither
reaches publication standard... .R.V.E.:
Verses of little general interest, and the form
adopted is too jerky and disjointed R.G.:
You can string words together fairly well, but
the subjects don’t appeal.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.F.: The mass of whirling lines gave us
eyestrain S.D.: Long, long ago we pub-
lished the same gag beneath a drawing by
B. E. Minns V.H.: Lessons have improved
your work, but you’ve a long way to go yet.
A.G.: Scrap that niggling style of line-
work for something bolder... .E.M.N.: Seeing
that you live at the back of Bourke, we’ll
excuse you for that shark picture H.P.: At
14 one should be more concerned with studying
hard than with vainly trying to break into
print A.L.R.: More strength and balance
in the pen drawings than in the others... .L.F.:
You depend too much on Chinese white to
hide your errors H.A.: Post-mortem re-
vealed several anatomical defects... .C. 8.•
Apart from the frills and the border it is an
arid piece of work J-J-: Your ambition far
exceeds your artistic talent... .H.8.H.: Carica-
tures should be of persons of some import-
ance... .T.R.S.: 111-drawn...W.Y.: Take more
time —sketches “dashed off in a few minutes
are seldom worth while F.C.M.: You win
this week’s booby prize G.W.8.: Jest old
and drawing stiff and scratchy... .J.R.: Crude
and blotchy drawing, and where is the gag-
D.C.: Some of the minor comic papers
might take the larger one F.C.: The hawker
looks to have been made out of a couple ot
half-filled chaff bags... .G.H.R.: Still the same
old mistakes C.T.: If that’s a dmkum abo.,
all we have ever seen must be impostors
L. : Don’t send them in half-finished... •
T.P.: It’s a dud, either as a humorous drawing
or a piece of naval architecture... .W.R.: With
a little more polish you’ll be knocking at the
door. .. .A.P.F.: Poorly drawn and a variation
of a chestnut C.D.: You work with a heavy-
hand D.A.Y.: A down-at-heels drawing
illustrating an almost worth-while gag.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms. 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOM^S.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F, E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
with offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi«
Bans offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Highly-qualified infant teacher, exp. in Aus-
tralia and abroad, wants position as governess
on station, preferably in eastern State. —437.
Man, Sydney, wants work cutting lawns,
hedges, etc., day or half-day. Refs. —457.
Young lady, florist, experienced and artis-
tic, general trade knowledge, desires position.
—463.
Lady stenographer (20), Melbourne, exp.
general office work, leaving certificate, desires
position.—423.
Compositor and proofreader, elderly, Sydney,
seeks position, full or part time, suburbs or
country. Refs. —492.
To buy Snowy Baker’s postal course of
boxing lessons. —443.
Words of “Nine Miles from Gundagai.”—
416.
Information Sought.
(1) Would boxers Slavin or Jackson at their
best have had any chance with Jack Johnson ?
(2) Was Slavin a better man than Fitzsim-
mons ? (3) Could Jim Jeffries at his best have
beaten Slavin or Jackson ? —378.
(1) Answers to such questions are always
a matter of opinion, for in boxing there’s no
way of proving one generation against an-
other. General opinion among old-time boxing
critics is that Johnson would have beaten
Slavin when both were at their best. Peter
Jackson is considered the greatest heavyweight
of all time, and as such capable of defeating
Johnson. (2) Bob Fitzsimmons is the only
boxer to ever win three world’s championships,
and he is reckoned a better man than Slavin.
(3) Jeffries beat Jackson, but the black was old
and had incipient t.b. No doubt the Ameri-
can could have defeated Slavin.
* * * *
(1) What is boxer Billy Wells’s real name ?
(2) Was he ever champion lightweight of the
world? (3) Where and when was he born?
(4) Did Wells ever visit Australia ? (5) Has
he retired from the ring ? (6) Where does he
live ? (7) Where can I gel a photograph of
him ? —315.
(1) There were two boxers named Billy Wells
in England—“Bombardier” Wells, who was
heavyweight champion of Great Britain, and
“Bermondsey” Wells, who won the British
welter title. The real name of each was Wil-
liam Wells. (2) No. (3) Both were born in
London; dates not available. (4) Neither
visited Australia. (5) Both have retired. (6)
Both live in London. (7) Probably from
"Boxing,” London.
* * * *
(1) Is it of any practical use training for
a commercial B-class aviaiion pilot’s license ?
(2) Are the services of commercial pilots re-
quired by aviation companies ? (3) If so, what
companies make it a policy of employing new
pilots ? (4) Wages paid ? (5) Cost of training
for a commercial ticket ? —308.
(1), (2) and (3) There are some 30 regular
air transport services in operation, and changes
are regularly occurring either as regards ex-
tension or increased frequency of existing lines
or inauguration of new routes. With increased
activities naturally more commercial pilots will
be required, but operators of regular air
services invariably augment their staffs with
personnel who have had considerable flying ex-
perience. Such a qualification would not be
possessed by a new licensee, as he would have
had to his credit only about 100 hours’ flying
when he gained his “B” (commercial) pilot’s
license. (4) Pilots on regular air routes com-
mand salaries ranging from £300 to £700 per
annum. (5) About £200.
* * * *
When, by what Government and for what
reasons was assisted migration to Australia
suspended ? Prior to its suspension, what
migration schemes were in existence ? Any
likelihood of the restoration of assisted migra-
tion ?—327.
Assisted migration to Australia was sus-
pended, with the exception of persons in-
volved in the reunion of families and a
certain number of children for Fairbridge
Farm School in W.A., by the Scullin Gov-
ernment at the beginning of 1930. Prior to
1930, what are known as the “Assisted Pas-
sages Agreement” and the “£34,000,000 Mi-
gration Agreement” were being operated. The
former agreement provided for passage con-
cessions for different types of migrants, and
the latter agreement dealt with the provision
qf moneys at substantially reduced rates of
interest, over a period of 10 years, for the
carrying out by the States of public works and
land-settlement schemes. The bi' ’.sh and
Commonwealth Governments between them
accepted liability for the major portion of the
interest over the period specified. Assisted
migration was suspended owing to unfavor-
able economic conditions. Future policy will
be determined by the Federal authorities in
consultation with the State Governments, which
control settlement, in the light of Australia’s
capacity to absorb additional population.
* * * *
Biographical details of Allan Villiers, owner
of the ship Joseph Conrad; also some particu-
lars of his books ? —473.
He was born in 1903 at Melbourne, and at
an early age went to sea in a square-rigger.
He spent a number of years before the mast
in sailing ships, and in 1923-24 was in a 12,000-
ton Norwegian whaler under Captain Carl
Larsen. For a while he was on the staff of
the Hobart “Mercury,” and wrote a book de-
scribing his voyage to the Antarctic, Whaling
in the Frozen South, published in 1925, when
he was 22. In 1928 he joined the Herzogin
Cecilie, writing the story of her voyage to
England under the title Falmouth for Orders;
and in 1930 published By Way of Cape Horn,
which describes the disastrous trip of the Grace
Harwar on which Walker, his fellow-adven-
turer, was killed. He also published a book
of over 100 sea photographs, called The Sea
in Ships. Later he visited the U.S.A. at the
invitation of the National Geographic Society
of Washington, and in 1931 published Vanished
Fleets, a maritime history of Tasmania in the
nineteenth century, followed by Sea Dogs of
To-day. Then, in his ship the Parma, with
his wife aboard, he won the grain race to Eng-
land, repeating the performance the next year.
* * * *
When and where was Ellen Terry born, and
when did she die ? Had she a brother Fred-
erick, and what were the names of her father
and grandfather ? —461.
She was born at Coventr\ February 27,
1848, her parents being well-known provincial
actors, Benjamin and Sarah Terry. In her
autobiography she mentions that her grand-
father was the son of an Irish builder who had
eloped with her grandmother, the daughter of
a Scottish minister; otherwise, she states, her
antecedents are "wrapped in mystery.” There
were 11 children in the Terry family, of whom
nine survived infancy; they were Kate, Ellen,
Benjamin, George, Marion, Flossie, Charles,
Tom and Frederick (who was for many years
on the stage). Dame Ellen died July 21, 1928,
near Tentcrdcn, Kent.
* * * *
(1) What is the salary of the Commonwealth
Inspector-General of Forests? (2) His duties?
(3) Area of Commonwealth forests ? (4) Have
not the States absolute control each over its
own forests ? (5) Is there any phase of Aus-
tralian timber research beyond the compass of
the C.S.I.R. ?— 366.
(1) £ll7O p.a., less reductions under the
Financial Emergency Act. (2) He is in charge
of the Commonwealth Forestry Bureau, the
powers and functions of which are: Advising
the Administration of the Territories on all
matters pertaining to the management of
forests; the management of forests placed
under its control by the Governor-General;
the establishment of experimental stations for
the study of silviculture, forest management
and forest protection; the provision of educa-
tional facilities for the training of professional
foresters; the establishment and awarding of
forestry scholarships; the collection and dis-
tribution of forestry information; the publica-
tion of reports and bulletins dealing with
forestry and such other functions as are pre-
scribed. (3) The forest areas in Papua and
New Guinea are of considerable extent. Plan-
tations of softwoods in F.C.T. approximately
7000 acres. (4) Yes. (5) Silviculture research
is a function of the Commonwealth Forestry
Bureau, and is not carried out by the C.S.I.R.
* * * *
A cable message from New York an-
nounces that Harvard University has estab-
lished the double eclipsing star 29, Canis
Majoris, as the heaviest star. It states further
that this star has a diameter 4000 times
that of the earth and that it is 40,000,000 times
as heavy. (1) What would the specific gravity
of such a star be in comparison with that of
the earth ? (2) Isn’t the distance given, 20,000
light years, phenomenal ? —386.
(1) Difficult to say on the data given, which
is probably incorrectly cabled. As Canis
Majoris is a double star, a statement of
“diameter” is ambiguous. If it is meant that
each of the two bodies has a diameter 4000
times that of the earth, their combined
volume must be 128,000,000,000 times as great.
If in the aggregate they are only 40,000,000
times as heavy as the earth their density must
be very small, and the claim that they are the
heaviest of stars is ununderstandable. (2) Yes.
The distance of this star (Alpha Canis Majoris,
in Sirius) is given in the tables as nine light
years. The greatest distance recorded is 500
light years.
* * * *
Who exactly were the Vandals, and how did
they come to dominate Europe ?—• 459.
They were a Germanic nation or confedera-
tion, probably allied to the Goths, who occu-
pied at an early period north-east Germany,
on the south of the Baltic. In 466 they crossed
the Rhine and spread through Gaul, thence
into Spain, in which they established them-
selves. They captured Seville and Carthagena,
and gave their name to Andalusia; then, under
Genseric, crossed to Africa, where in 429 they
vanquished the Roman Governor and estab-
lished a kingdom. Genseric revived the mari-
time glories of Carthage, conquered Sicily, Sar-
dinia and Corsica, invaded Italy, and in 455
sacked Rome. He concluded a long reign in
477, the kingdom being continued under his
descendants, Gundamund (484), Thrasimund
(496), Helderius (523) and Gelimer (530). Beli-
sarius, general of the eastern Emperor Justi-
nian, overthrew Gelimer in 534.
* * * *
What is the botanical name for the ”Tree
of Heaven” ? —124.
Ailanthus (from its native name Ailanto.
meaning Tree of Heaven) is found in Central
and South Asia and North Australia. The
best-known species is A. glandulosa, which is
often planted as a street tree, as it resists
smoke and dust better than other trees and is
not attacked by insects. The principal habitat
of the species is northern China.
* * * *
(1) How to propagate hydrangeas from cut-
tings ? (2) When is the best time to prune
hydrangeas ? —299.
(1) Take short cuttings which have recently
flowered, remove the leaves, and then place
the pieces in pots filled to within an inch of
the brim with a mixture of equal parts of sand,
light loam, pulverised cow-manure and leaf-
mould. It will conduce to quick-rooting if the
pots are placed in a glass-frame and kept moist.
(2) March is generally pruning-time; if left
later, the flowering-wood has not time to
mature before the cold weather sets in. Cut
each limb back to the first buds of the new
wood.
* * * *
I have a number of daffodil bulbs which
have never flowered since I purchased them.
What's the trouble, and what can I do to
remedy it ? —273.
Position often has much to do with the
failure. Daffodils should have an easterly,
sunny position in soil well nourished with
cow-manure. Many bulbs, however, fail to
flower because they were dug up before they
were matured. If yours fail this winter, throw
them out and get new stock.
* * * *
Recipe for making fairly large quantity of
kerosene emulsion for gardening purposes ?
130.
Dissolve 6oz. of lotus soap in one gallon of
boiling water, and when thoroughly dissolved
add one gallon of kerosene, and churn
thoroughly with a force-pump or syringe for
at least five minutes, pumping out of and into
the bucket through a rose nozzle until com-
pletely emulsified. If the mixture is sufficiently
hot it will thicken in from five to ten minutes,
and will be, when cold, of consistency of
butter or soft soap, adhering without oiiincss
to the surface of glass. For use, dilute with
15 to 20., or even 30, parts of water, according
to the time of the year the spraying is done.
Use rain water, and do not dilute until
immediately before using.
* * * *
(1) Best position for planting outdoor palms ?
(2) Suitable soil ? —149.
(1) While a reasonably open position, well
sheltered from very severe winds, is the most
suitable, be careful to select a spot well away
from growing shrubs or large trees, which arc
liable to absorb all the soil moisture, thereby
stunting the growth of the palm and eventually
killing the plant. (2) When the land is very
sandy or of fairly loose texture it is necessary
to work in heavy joam or clay to admit of
moisture being retained in the ground during
the dry weather, more especially if an ample
water supply is not available during the summer
months. When finally preparing the soil it
will in most cases be necessary to add fertiliser;
well-rotted stable- or cow-manure, for prefer-
ence. Where the ground is inclined to be
of stiffer texture, either the natural manure
or some good commercial fertiliser consisting
of not less than 50 p.c. of bone-dust may be
used.
* * * *
How to germinate waratah seeds ? —157.
They should be sown when fresh from the
pods in loamy soil or sandy loam, about
twice their own depth, or not more than iin.
deep. The seed should be pressed firmly in the
soil and kept moist but not too wet. The soil
should never be allowed to become too dry,
and an open sunny position is preferable to
shade. If sown in boxes these should be not
less than 6in. deep, so that plenty of drainage
material can be placed in the bottom of the
box. A mixture of fine charcoal and wood
ashes with the sandy loam will assist in keep-
ing the seedlings healthy.
* * * *
I have had an itch on the palms of my
Itands for the last two months. It appears to
be deep down under the skin, which is peel-
ing. Remedy? —2lß.
Symptoms suggest an occupational eczema.
Pending examination, keep the part dry;
cleanse with olive oil as required. Following
is a useful ointment: Bismuth subgallate 30
grains, olive oil 6 drachms, lanoline 6 drachms,
glycerine 3 drachms, limewater 3 drachms.
Rub gently in, and cover with a dusting of
powdered starch. Include fruit and green leaf-
vegetables freely with meals.
* * * *
(1) What causes a slough to form on a wound
after an operation for appendicitis ? (2) How
long does it usually take to clean up ? (3) Is
it likely to leave any after effects ? —296.
Both slough and granular tissue represent
the transition stage between a wound and its
resulting scar. Whilst the former separates
from sound flesh during suppuration, the latter,
as a healing process, follows all wounds that
extend below the epidermis or surface cuticle.
With operation for appendicitis, axillary
abscess and the like, a localised sloughing
may persist for some weeks—the period is
indefinite, according to the nature of the in-
cision. As healing proceeds, the granular area
becomes smaller; sloughing gradually reduces
until scar tissue finally closes the wound.
* * * *
Biographical particulars of Richard Alding-
ton. the poet and novelist ? —383.
He was born 1892, in Hampshire, and edu-
cated at Dover College and London Uni. In
1915 he published his first book, Images Old
and New. He married a poetess, Hilda Doo-
little, and early in 1916 joined the army. When
demobilised, he was suffering severely from
shellshock, and for a time suffered considerable
hardship. Later he obtained the position of
critic of French literature for the “Times Liter-
ary Supplement,” and since then has done a
great deal of critical and creative work, as
well as a large number of translations. His
publications include War and Love, Images of
Desire, Exile and Other Poems, A Fool in
the Forest, A Dream in the Luxembourg, Col-
lected Poems, Death of a Hero (a novel), and
Roads to Glory (a collection of war and post-
war stories).
Brief Answers.
F.W.K.: (1) Write Registrar-General, Regis-
trar-General’s Department, Queen’s-square,
Sydney. (2) Chief Librarian, Mitchell Library,
Macquarie-street, Sydney, may be able to help.
E.B.: Only method is by advertising
C.M.T.: (1) Yes. Not usual procedure in
veterinary work. (2) It is possible. (3) Two
or three days at b.ody temperature. (4) Drs.
Serge Voronoff and Steinach. (5) Dr. Leighton
Jones, Dora Creek, N.S.W P.H.H.: Such
reproductions are of no value... .W.N.: Write
Secretary, Naval Board, Defence Department,
Melbourne G.D.: The secretary of the
association has declined to furnish the informa-
tion... .R.B.: The population of Australia in
1901 was 3,790,710; note issue, £4,064,636....
S.M.: Apply to the Accountant-General, Royal
Courts of Justice, London. The application
should give the correct title of the matter or
suit in which you believe you are interested,
must be signed by you and state the grounds
upon which you claim to be interested benefi-
cially. The latter should be accompanied by a
money-order for 2s. 6d. drawn in favor of the
Commissioners of Internal Revenue....
H.C.P.: (1) A wife takes the domicile of her
husband, and Victorian law requires such domi-
cile to have existed for two years. It is a
ground for divorce that a wife has, without
just cause or excuse, wilfully deserted her hus-
band and left him deserted during three years
and upward. Adultery is also a ground for
divorce. (2) No; being domiciled in Victoria
could not apply in England. Cannot give an
estimate of costs; in the circumstances they
would probably be considerable... .L.M.S.:
There are other offences under the N.S.W.
Totalisator Act besides the one excluding per-
sons under the age of 21 years from using it.
For example, failing to post up a notice to that
effect; also falure to furnish returns, etc. The
information would disclose the offence alleged.
....A.V.H.: (1) Yes, in all the States in the
form of limited liability companies. (2) No. (3)
In the case of an unlimited liability co. every
member is personally liable for the whole of the
co.’s debts. There are very few such cos. The
usual form is the limited liability co., where
the liability is limited by shares. In such case
the liability of members is limited to the amount
unpaid on their shares. (4) No. (5) If the
individual beneficiary is also trustee for the
whole estate, he alone is responsible and must
act in the interests of the estate as a whole.
. ...H.C.: Not if the clement of chance is
wholly excluded; for example, a prize for the
best short story, poem, limerick, etc., is within
the law J.B.: (1) Principally jeweller’s
rouge, a fine red iron oxide. (2) From E.
Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney,
price 4d. per oz. (3) and (4) Description of
process is given in Amateur Telescope Making,
by J. Cooper-Vines: from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, 2s. 3d. post free A.W.T.: It
is a common token in general use in the six
ties and seventies of last century. Its col-
lector value is 6d M.P.: As you will be
travelling in summer, take mostly light clothing
for use during the voyage. In addition, you will
require some warmer clothing and a travelling
rug J.S.: The Australian distributors state
that they have no record as to the identity of
the man who sang with the two girls in
“Broadway Gondolier.” Joe Morrison was
not in this picture... .R.E.F.: A list of such
publishers is given in the Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook... .L.F.C.: Eimar
Ultan O’Duffy was born at Dublin, 1893, the
eldest son of Kevin O’Duffy. He was edu-
cated at Stonyhurst and University College,
Dublin. His publications include plays, verse,
novels and studies in economics. He married
in 1920, and has one son and daughter; his
home is in Surrey N.T.: She would not
necessarily lose her pension, but it might be
reduced. In Australia a pensioner is allowed a
home without deduction on account of its
value, but if she ceases to occupy it, sells or
lets it the value is taken into account in deter-
mining her future pension. If your mother sold
the place, then, after deducting the mortgage
incumbrance and incidental expenses, the bal-
ance would go towards reducing her pension.
The money could not be applied by the de-
partment in part-payment of pension already
paid. Should she sell, she must notify the
department within one month of the sale.
T.D.: Irving Berlin, Inc., 799 Seventh-
avenue; Chappel and Co., Inc., R.K.O. Build-
ing, Rockefeller Centre; M. Witmark and Sons,
1250 Sixth-avenue; and Novello and Co., 159
East 48th-street —all New York S.T.T.:
“Beachcomber” is J. B. Morton ; “Boyd Cable,”
Col. E. A. Ewart H.M.W.: Writing for
Broadcasting, by C. Whitaker-Wilson (3s. 6d.).
. ...R.A.: Coomalong is a W.A. abo. word
meaning “many opossums”; Oodnadatta is
a S.A. abo. word meaning “the blossom of the
mulga”... .H.S.D.: The length of the Suez
Canal is 101 miles, with a minimum width of
60 metres (196ft. 10in.). The maximum
draught of water allowed for vessels using the
canal is 11.5 metres (38ft.). The average time
for transit is 13 hours 22 minutes A.J.L.:
Calcutta, including suburbs and Howrah, had
in 1931 a population of 1,485,582 A.J.:
Results of 1934-35 Rugby Union matches were
as follows: England, 3, drew with Wales, 3;
Wales, 10, beat Scotland, 6; England, 14, beat
Ireland, 7; Ireland, 12, beat Scotland, 5; Ire-
land, 9, beat Wales, 3; and Scotland, 10, beat
England, 7. Ireland won the championship
S.F.: The Edward Medal was established by
King Edward VII. in 1907 as a recognition
of heroic acts performed by quarrymen, or
of others who have endangered their lives in
rescuing those so employed K.P.: (1) No
restriction is imposed by the N.S.W. Pastures
Protection Act, 1934 (copy can be obtained from
Government Printer), in such a case, but when
it is proposed to enter on occupied land notice
must be given to the occupier. This notice
may be given personally by telephone, telegram
or by post. (2) A complete plan may be
obtained from the Lands Department, Sydney.
It is in two parts, north and south, the dividing
line running through, approximately, Junee.
The cost of each part is 5s., or 10s. for the
complete plan C.Y.: See list of exercises
supplied with apparatus. The “chest” subject
must proceed slowly; otherwise follow stated
routine. Deep-breathing is beneficial in itself.
Examination advised for nervous trouble
(Many others mailed.)


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Their Tit for Tat
Twenty-five shillings, the price of an
A.W.U. ticket, was exacted from an un-
employed man in Westralia before he
could get Government sustenance work.
Call it, if you like, a Trades Hall entrance
fee. 1 suppose it helped to pay for enor-
mous street posters telling the passer-by
why he should give a new lease of life
to Collier and company. In flaming red
mostly, Labor blazoned forth assertions
to the effect that the plight of the work-
less is over and employment is at full
tide.
Mr. Kcnneally, the Minister of Em-
ployment, gave his blessing to the 255.
ticket business. Mr. Kenneally lost his
seat (East Perth). Sustenance workers
hit back.— Bill Ding (W.A.).
Fined for Living Outback
Something to add to The Bulletin’s
comments on the Queensland Govern-
ment railways. Invoices are enclosed.
A Charleville man gave an order to
a Brisbane firm for school goods (verse-,
exercise- and drawing-books). The parcel
weighed 601 b. The railway charged
12s. 3d. It works out at about
£24 a ton (Charleville is 483 miles from
Brisbane) and at about 20 p.c. on whole-
sale cost.
Wholesale cost was £2 17s. 10d., to
which the Commonwealth Government
added 2s. 4d. sales tax. That brings it
to a shade under 25 p.c. on wholesale
cost.
Such is the penalty the people of the
west pay for living in the west. Re-
member these things are not luxuries but
school requisites for workers’ children.
And the Commonwealth is as bad as the
State. Postage on an ordinary writing-
pad (cost Is.) to a station 150 miles away
was sevenpence.— Rackrate (Q.)
Was It a “Rescue”?
Being a sportsman, Antarctic-explorer
Lincoln Ellsworth must be amused when
he reads newspaper accounts of his much-
advertised “rescue” from the icy con-
tinent. The fact that he landed a few
miles short of his objective, the Bay of
Whales, in no way interfered with his
relief arrangements ; had not the Dis-
covery 11. arrived, his own vessel would
have picked him up almost to schedule.
Byrd’s old camp at Little America would
have provided shelter almost indefinitely.
Credit can be taken for the prompt
action in dispatching the Discovery 11.
to the Bay of Whales in case Ellsworth
was in need of help, but surely it is
stretching the case to call the taking
aboard of him and his companion from
their objective a “rescue.” —R. S. K.
(Tas.).
Stopping S.P. Betting
Once more the N.S.W. Government is
prating of the wonderful measures it is
about to undertake to obliterate s.p. bet-
ting. There is only one way to do that,
and that is to prohibit publication of “the
weights” except in authorised books
sold within racecourse gates.
The ordinary stool-pigeon doesn’t care
A tinker’s malediction if he is caught and
fined. The money is paid by the big
fellow who supplies the funds, and for
his own sake must back his agent. Until
publication of the weights is made un-
lawful, except as stated, the Big Noise
will continue to operate with the assis-
tance of the postal authorities in his tele-
phone-studded offices.
S.p. betting could be stopped, but
no Ministry is game to take action which
would antagonise influential newspapers,
as well as the s.p. army and a consider-
able proportion of the floating vote.—
Retired Urger (N.S.W.).
“That Flying Doctor Again, Pearce!”
For almost two years the N.T. has had
the benefit of an aerial medical service
for which it has to thank Dr. Fenton.
Lives have been saved and suffering
relieved by the splendid work of this
exceptional young man, who has been
available for service at all hours, in good
weather or bad.
Southerners doubtless assume that the
work of this doctor has been recognised
by the Government in some tangible
form. Not so ; his Moths (he has had
three) have been bought at his own
expense. Admittedly he gets a salary,
as do colleagues in the Territory Medical
Service who do no flying ; and he is also
paid on a mileage basis for all official
flights. But these two items do not go
far in the purchase and maintenance of
aircraft. Surely it is not asking too much
that the Government show its apprecia-
tion of Dr. Fenton’s work by seeing that
he is not out of pocket through carrying
it on.
The sentiments expressed here are
those of each and every inhabitant of
this Territory—F. and A. (Pine Creek,
N.T.).
The Suicide Strike
As a seafarer for 25 years, knowing
Australian seamen and coastal condi-
“ Lookin' for the admiral, eh? Sorry, miss, but 'e couldn't get ashore,
so 'e sent us to tell you to take y'r pick."
tions, I am concerned to prevent ship-
ping strikes. In the latest suicide strike
the tail wagged the dog. A gang of 81
militants, organised and packed in ten
different portions of the Sydney Town
Hall, while a boss-militant spoke from
the platform, put 4000 men out of work,
“The motion was carried with one dis-
sentient.” Oh, yes! Behind men who
wanted to oppose the motion stood
organised militants who hissed “Put up
your hand, you ,or 111 plug you!’
Now men with homes partly paid off
have lost their jobs and won t get them
SiL S'? UTST
retired at 45, were glad to return to sen ,
toankM tof week
ln“ot ,0 a "ossibL two dajs Th'ey
manned the ships.
My suggestion is that a secret vote on
a strike motion at a place free of intimi-
dation—for example, a police station —
be made compulsory,’ the non-voter with-
out reasonable excuse to be deprived of
the franchise, Federal and State. A fine
would be no deterrent.
State Minister Dunningham’s voting
scheme was a farce. Out of a crew of
28 on my ship (not including stewards
and cooks) only nine voted. The
“S.M.H.” gave the result of our ballot as.
19 against, nine in favor. But all came
out on strike!—Beco (N.S.W.).
Savage on Exchange
f
Although Prime Minister Savage keeps
on stating that he intends to lower the
rate or exchange on London by a gradual
process, business interests are far from
enthusiastic about it. Retailers are now
beginning to taste the sweets of return-
ing prosperity, and they would rather
that recovery worked for itself. Appre-
ciation of the currency would only mean
a further process of adjustment, with its
consequent upsetting effect on business.
Although there was violent opposition
when the rate was increased to 125 p.c.,
it is significant that at a recent meeting
in Auckland, at which exporters, im-
porters and manufacturers were present,
opinion in favor of maintaining the
present rate was almost unanimous.
As for the farmer, the exchange ques-
tion is bound up with guaranteed prices,
because he cannot have his toffee and
the halfpenny as well. Cabinet is mak-
ing slow progress with its guaranteed
price scheme for dairy-farmers ; it is a
subject which gets more complicated as
it is probed. Woolgrowers and meat pro-
ducers have not yet been considered, nor
is it certain that they will be. They cer-
tainly cannot produce at a profit without
the exchange premium.
The exchange question is one on which
Mr. Savage may change his mind to
advantage. —B. D. F. E. (Maoriiand).
Why Apologise?
The expressed intention of our Min-
ister for Defence to lend the assistance
of the Government to the establishment
of an aircraft factory in the Common-
wealth is a highly necessary and states-
manlike move, and it is difficult to under-
stand why Mr. Parkhill should think it
necessary to apologise as he did.
This course is being taken in no sense
of opposition to British manufacture.
What is now being done is forced upon us
by the necessities of the defence of the
Commonwealth.
Apparently the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is under the impression that the
Almighty created the people of Aus-
tralia for the express purpose of provid-
ing customers for British aircraft manu-
facturing firms.
If Australia can ever be rendered safe
from attack by a naval Power, its only
hope is to have an air force capable of
destroying any ’planes that can be car-
ried by the invaders, and, having done
that, to bomb the squadron unmolested,
Without such a force the ’planes from
an attacking squadron would first de-
stroy our air force and then, at its
leisure, bomb our puny cruisers and have
° Ur ° itieS at itS merCy -
Without a fully-equipped factory in
? hich aero I> la ” es «>uld be manutac-
T?
over a natal one would be fost.' f f ° rCe
Tf h .. _ v _- rfc
money proposed to be spent on useless
would rendera naval attack an aa
of su ,; c ; de and k Australia as safp as
wou | d t h ree rimzf of chain hVhtnW
Ground o" confinent -ARTHUR
fith (N.S.W.).
_
The Treatment of Paralysis
“Specialist” (B. 5/2/’36) knows little
of Sister Kenny or her accomplishments ;
but they are known to the Queensland
public. “Specialist” should peruse reports
made on Sister Kenny’s work and results
by leading medical practitioners. I quote
an extract:
In numbers of cases treated from {he
outset in approved metropolitan institutions
by leading orthopaedic surgeons, I saw
deformities. These cases had been im-
mobilised in plaster or splints, but yet
deformities had occurred.
The writer went on to mention that he
had not seen any of those deformities
arising in cases treated by Sister Kenny
at the outset.
So Sister Kenny does not believe in
operations? This probably accounts for
the fact that a Brisbane surgeon only
recently operated on a patient from Sister
Kenny’s clinic.
In dealing with poliomyelitis special-
ists have had the opportunity to “deliver
the goods.” Many people have more
faith in Sister Kenny delivering them.
The public does not forget that Sister
Kenny has given her services without
remuneration. No one’s banking account
will be paralysed by her. — Rationalist
(Q.).
All Because of Votes
Commonwealth legislators have power
to make laws with regard to marriage,
divorce and matrimonial causes. For
bad reasons connected with votes they
have never exercised it.
Canada has a uniform national law
on these subjects, but in Australia the
only laws in force after 35 years of
Federation are the laws of the States. So
we have the absurdity of an Australian
domiciled in Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) get-
ting a divorce on the ground of desertion
for three years while a fellow-citizen not
100 yards distant in Coolangatta (Q.) has
to wait five years. Lunacy is a ground
in some States, not in others. Habitual
drunkenness and neglect of duties, at-
tempted murder, a sentence for crime,
repeated assaults are grounds in some
States, not in others. And there is no
harmony as to the effect of the prohibited
degrees of consanguinity.
Some States for the purpose of assum-
ing divorce jurisdiction attribute to a wife
seeking a divorce on the ground of deser-
tion a domicile corresponding to the
domicile of the husband at the time
desertion began. The validity of such
decrees, except within the State granting
them, is extremely dubious.
A Federal Marriage and Divorce Bill
is an urgent and a pressing need. — Kelvin
(S.A.).
The Attack on Blum
Our wonderful press broke out in head-
lines over a Royalist attack in Paris on
the Socialist leader Blum —millionaire,
Friend of Russia and super-sanctionist.
The account given was about as clear
and accurate as the usual foreign news
served up for our benefit; but anyone
who took the trouble to read the text
carefully could form some idea of the
truth, though with difficulty.
Blum deliberately broke a police
cordon to insult a funeral cortege by
driving through it. The funeral was that
of Jacques Bainville, a writer and his-
torian of European fame, and a mem-
ber of the Academie—but the press boys
here haven’t heard of him yet; the name
was given as “Vainville” or “Vainoille.”
In the first account', the sanctionist hero
was rescued by a brave band of workers.
The brave band had disappeared from
next morning’s “Argus”; he was just
“allowed to go home.” And very lucky,
too!
The action taken by the Government
is typical of justice in that “free” coun-
try. It’s all right to have Stavisky and
Prince “bumped off” for knowing too
much; but the person of a Red is
sacred. Without giving any time for an
inquiry, the President decreed the dissolu-
tion of the Action Fran?aise. Not that
it will make much difference ; the Action
Franfaise has survived a dozen or so of
official “dissolutions.”
It believes in a revival of pre-Revolu-
tionary traditions, including a strong
monarchy and decentralisation ; and it
hates nearly all “modern” political doc-
trines—not merely democratic Parliamen-
tarism and Socialism, but the new brands
of dictatorship. It has a big following
among the intelligentsia. The rank and
file are from every class—students, petty
bourgeois, peasants and even industrial
workers.
They’re not, romantic, and their
methods are practical. They raised the
pack against Stavisky and his patrons,
and nearly wrecked the Republic over it.
And if the “suppression” becomes too
serious, or the “sanctions” lunatics
threaten France with war,' they'll get
plenty of backing to finish the job.—
Calhoun (Vic.).


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Southerners are slow to realise that
Queensland form is good. Only one of
the 10 competitors for the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes started at a longer price
than Regular Bachelor, who earned £2OOO
for his owner-trainer, R. P. Trihey, and
enabled the ringmen to make what per-
haps will be their biggest haul of the
autumn. Twenty to one was the “offi-
cial” quote, but better could be got.
Visitors who had seen Regular Bache-
lor score at Rosehill a fortnight before
declared that the Bananalander was con-
siderably below Futurity standard. . It
is painfully easy to form false impres-
sions on the turf. Though the son of
Bachelor’s Persse —Regulate and his
jockey, Tanwan, had never previously
set foot on Victorian soil, and were
strangers to the left-handed direction of
galloping, Tanwan had the race in his
pocket a furlong from home.
Closing Time shared favoritism with
Cuddle. These two horses gave widely
divergent displays of galloping. Dashing
off with the lead, Closing Time com-
menced to lose ground at the half-mile,
and beat only one horse. Cuddle began
slowly, but travelled at express speed
between the five furlongs and the three
furlongs, taking control at the latter
point. Logically, Cuddle ought to have
outstayed her opponents, but when chal-
lenged by Regular Bachelor she had no-
thing in reserve, and Regular Bachelor
romped in by three lengths. He covered
the seven furlongs in lmin. 24Jsec., and
could have comfortably lowered Win-
ooka’s course record (lmin. 24Jsec.) if
he had been pushed. Press Gang finished
well to get third. His stable-companion,
the imported mare Cry Havoc, revealed
a lot of pace, but faded out at the half-
way stage.
Possibly the law would have been in-
voked if Closing Time had won. Origi-
nally the horse had been entered by J.
T. Jamieson, who held him on lease from
Hunter White. That nomination lapsed
because of the disqualification of Jamie-
son, but Closing Time was brought into
the race afresh on payment of a late-
entry fee of £5O by the A.J.C. committee-
man. Conditions of the Futurity Stakes
say that “no horse which has been with-
drawn from the race, or whose entry has
been rejected, or which has been dis-
qualified after entry shall be eligible to
be entered again.” The V.A.T.C. com-
mittee, after taking the advice of counsel,
ruled that Closing Time was eligible to
start. A trainer of another candidate
thought differently, and it was rumored
that he intended to gb to law on the
matter if necessity arose. Bets would not
have been affected, but a prize of £2OOO
is worth fighting for.
In an Australian Cup connection
Cuddle has lost no friends through her
Futurity failure. Actually her chance in
the 2J miles event at Flemington on
March 7 has been enhanced. It was ask-
ing a lot'of a mare to win at seven fur-
longs when undergoing a long-distance
preparation. Bunsby Gaze did not come
up to expectations in the Woodcliff Han-
dicap. He ran ninth only, places being
filled by Nellie’s-Tip (14 to. 1), Highardo
(5 to 1) and Palfresco (6 to 1). The
winner is hot in the Cup, but Highardo
and Palfresco are, Palfresco finished well
—indeed, he shaped in something like the
style that enabled him to capture the
Caulfield Cup.
Regular Bachelor’s victory makes him
a very strong contender for the New-
market. He comes down from 9st. to
Bst. 111 b Blonde has the same
weight and must be respected. Arachne
and Closing Time are discredited by their
Futurity Stakes form, but Barracker
came home with a wonderful rattle to
run third to Heros (7 to 2) and Heritor
(8 to 1) in the Hawksburn Handicap.
As in the Oakleigh Plate, Heritor
was bothered a bit by the track ; and
Dark Sky experienced a bad passage.
He will also have to be reckoned with
over the “straight six.” His stable-mate,
Beechwood, landed the Alma Stakes for
P. H. Osborne, of the A.J.C. committee.
Beechwood cannot extend Dark Sky on
the tracks.
Bustard holds his place in Australian
Cup discussions. He will run in the St.
Leger, and this should give a strong line
to his prospects in the big handicap.
Cuddle comes under the acid again in
the Essendon Stakes, with Sylvandale and
Marabou as rivals.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Let this leap-year item go
down on the records:
Futurity Stakes.
Regular Bachelor 1
Cuddle 2
Dividend (for 55.), 5.0., Regular .
Bachelor, £8 6s. 6d. Place: Regular
Bachelor, £1 155.; Cuddle, Bs.
1 suppose the girls all backed Cuddle.
* * * *
There were 11 races at Victoria Park
on Saturday, and 10 favored the bookies:
Magnitas (2 to 1 in the 10-furlongs
handicap) was the only popular fancy to
score. The Magpie gelding had an easy
task. Multigris essayed to win through-
out. Urunalong was in charge at the
Leger, but Magnitas beat her comfort-
ably, with the tiring Multigris third.
The very useful Regal Star (4 to 1)
put up an equally striking performance
in the first division of the Flying Handi-
cap —the verdict was “half a length,” but
it looked more. Falstaff, who got a run
on the rails when Dover Patrol shifted
out at the three-furlongs pole, was
second, just ahead of Ramadan ; Con-
tact was a fast-finishing fourth. Other
stayers in Master Brierly, High Cross,
Topical and Akuna helped to make up a
field.
Leslie Barnett’s filly Heroina took the
second division at fours ; for second The
Darter ousted the favorite, Hammerhead,
in the last stride. Disalto lost his chance
in the third division by being cut out at
the start and rushed up to the lead too
soon. He tired and missed a place ; Old
Motor (14 to 1), a brother to Urunalong
and Carry On, “walked in” from Nike
and Dark Son.
Dandaloo (12 to 1) won the first heat
of the Encourage Handicap by a head
from Patwood and Grand Warbler. A
March Along mare, she was bred by the
late John Brown, and looks like making
a useful stayer. Floration (15 to 1) led
all the way in the second division.
Fingra (5 to 1) outpaced his opponents
in the Brush Hurdle ; he has now won
three races over the jumps. He is a
natural hurdler, having been schooled
only once, and is trained on unortho-
dox lines, sprinting a furlong several
times a week.
* * * *
McCarten was not in the saddle at
Caulfield on Saturday, nor will he be
seen at Flemington. Neither will Darby
Munro. The V.R.C. stewards sus-
pended Mac for a month for “care-
less riding” in the first division of the
V.A.T.C. Salisbury Welter, adjudging
him guilty of crossing too quickly bn
Chelandric, the ultimate winner; they
inflicted a similar penalty on Munro
because Cuddle (he took McCarten's
place on her) ran in too sharply at the
home turn in the Futurity Stakes, caus-
ing interference. A severe blow to each
boy, but no one will blame the stewards
for making an example of jockeys who,
in their opinion, endanger other jockeys
and horses by taking risks. In this re-
spect they are stricter in Melbourne than
in Sydney.
The buyer for India, who started up
again after many years when Ethics
proved himself the best' horse in that
country —he won the Emperor’s and
Viceroy’s Cups—is busy in Melbourne.
Titanium (Heroic—Winter) is one of his
purchases; Cotys (Thracian— Charybdis)
another, and in each case he had to go to
four figures. Titanium is very fast up
to a mile, but rather an uncertain cus-
tomer, as is his elder brother Dover
Patrol'. Perhaps a change to India will
cure him of his propensity for disappoint-
ing his stable and other supporters, and
he will become as trustworthy as young
brother John o’ Groats has proved in his
short career.
Cotys, who has had two good wins in
Melbourne recently, seems as honest as
the day. A. T. Creswick bred Cotys, and
presumably would not be selling him if
he had not superior horses (notably
Feldspar) in his stable. Mr. Creswick has
reaped a rich reward this year from his
faith in Australian-bred sires, and his ex-
perience should encourage others to
follow his example. For 20 years or so,
there was nothing in owning Australian-
bred sires, but there is now good money
in the business if the sire proves him-
self, as Heroic, Windbag, Thracian and
Manfred have done.
* * * *
The Johannesburg people, who are
celebrating the jubilee of their city, talk
of putting up a £lO,OOO prize for a race
open to horses from all parts of the
Empire ; and in their case it is money
talking. Australian owners and trainers
will be glad of particulars, and will no
doubt learn from some of our cricketers
when they return how the land lies:
some of the boys are interested in racing,
though there is no Herby Collins among
them. Long ago Dick Wootton took a
team of Sydney horses to South Africa
and did very well with them. In fact,
that venture may be said to have laid
the foundation of the Wootton fortunes.
* * * *
Sydney racing clubs are trying to beat
the broadcasters by forbidding every
visitor to their courses “to communicate
to others not on the course any descrip-
tion or any result until five minutes after
the last race.” The regulation is printed
on the tickets of admission. So far there
has been no interruption of racing broad-
casts, and there may not be in any case,
since constitutional questions are in-
volved. A substantial reduction of admis-
sion charges, which are still on the
boom-time scale, would be more effec-
tive in increasing attendances than re-
strictions which even racegoers, a long-
suffering breed, resent.
These anti-broadcasting measures were
introduced at Victoria Park on Wednes-
day. The immediate effect on the club
seems to have been rather overwhelm-
ing: at all events the Flying Handicap
was won by a horse (Glenwitch) posted
as a non-starter, and a pony (Majorca)
which had gone to the post for a divi-
sion of the Fourteen-two Handicap was
declared a non-starter after the race and
after some of its backers had torn up
their tickets.
“Mr. Jaggers”: Writing before the
system has been thoroughly fried, I fore-
cast heaps of trouble for the racing clubs
which are issuing tickets purporting to be
contracts. It has always been doubtful
whether the purchase of a ticket com-
pletes a mutual contract between seller
and buyer. The question was thrashed
out ad nauseam in the British courts
when the railways came into being, and
the law on the subject is still hazy. To
complete a contract there must be a
good consideration for each party. It is
arguable whether permission to watch
races with sealed lips is such a con-
sideration.
* * * *
The Trautwein case was called on
again in the High Court last week to
admit of counsel making final addresses.
The owner of Quinologist, Chide, Runny-
mede, Aorangi, Royal Son and animals
of less note is appealing against Federal
income-tax assessments constituting a
demand for £162,000. He declared that
during the five years 1922-27 he won
£85,000 in betting, and claimed that he
should not be taxed on this, as he was
not carrying on a betting business. One
year he cleared £50,000 in doubles; but
that, his counsel said, was clear profit,
and apart from doubles he had had heavy
losses. “Trautwein,” counsel went on to
say, “has been racing for 41 years, and
his personal conduct has never been
questioned by the stewards or any com-
mittee.” Justice Evatt reserved his
judgment.
* * * *
Peter Pan has not done well on the
track since he returned to Randwick
from his spell at Bacchus Marsh, and the
probabilities are that the last has been
seen of him on a racecourse. A very
big horse, rising seven, he has had a
longer innings than most massive stal-
lions. Carbine was younger when he
ceased to race, and Wallace had to be
retired after one attempt as a four-year-
old. Both became great sires, and Peter
Pan may rival them in this respect also,
for he seems to have everything in his
favor. One thing is certain: he will go
down to turf history as one of the great-
est racehorses Australia has had ; almost
as fast as Phar Lap up to a mile and a
quarter, and almost equal to Carbine as
a stayer. He won his first Melbourne
Cup after having been nearly knocked
down, and his second with 9st. 101 b. on
a heavy track which had all his oppo-
nents dogtired before the finish. And
they were by no means a bad lot, as wit-
ness the fact that Sarcherie, second to
Peter Pan that day with 7st. 21b., was,
with 101 b. more, runner-up to Marabou,
a lightly-weighted four-year-old, in the
following year.
Peter Pan has won 22+ races, been
placed five times (all seconds) and been
eight times unplaced. The dead-heat was
in his first race as a three-year-old: it
was the Novice Handicap at Warwick
Farm, and the other party to the dead-
heat was Babili, still in the business, but
also approaching the end of his race-
course career. Then, as now, Babili
was owned and trained by “Old Bill”
Kelso. The veteran had another three-
year-old in that Novice Handicap, a colt
owned by a patron, not much good and
not as forward. Naturally he gave the
preference to his own fellow. The patron
was so annoyed that he transferred the
passed-over nag and another to other
stables. His notion was that, by scratch-
ing his patron’s horse, Kelso had de-
prived said patron of a sure first prize.
The fact is, of course, that Babili’s
dead-heat with Peter Pan was one of the
greatest flukes on record. Tried on
innumerable occasions during four
seasons, Babili has never since proved
himself any better than a third-rater —•
and neither has the nag whose owner was
positive he would have beaten Peter Pan
if Kelso had not scratched him.
# * * *
The Tasmanian pacer Logan Derby
preserved his unbeaten record in the
“grand final” of the inter-Dominion trot-
ting championships—his sixth success in
Perth. But the title of grand champion
was awarded to the Maoriland mare
Evicus on points; though four times
second her times were better than those
of Logan Derby. He was on scratch
and was never pushed ; she was 24 yards
behind and was all out in each heat.
In the last race of the series her mile
rate was 2min. 11 sec.; Logan Derby’s
was 2min. 12sec., and he beat her by
six yards. Probably if the stallion’s
handicap had been worse he would have
returned east with the grand champion-
ship.
Ins and Outs
“Main Beach”: They take their cricket
seriously in Queensland. A country
player was given out by the ump. and
retired. He returned, and said he was
going to continue. Ordered out again
by the umpire, he declined, and told the
official where the official could go if the
official didn’t like it. As the batsman
looked like staying until sundown, the
fielding side walked off and claimed the
match.
* , * * *
“Kumar”: The Indian cricket team
for Britain comprises 15 men, most of
whom were prominent against the Tar-
rantulas. Notable absentees are the
Yuvraj of Patiala, whose job keeps him
at home, and Pataudi, who says he is sick.
Three other well-known players, includ-
ing the Cambridge bowler Jehangir
Khan, will be available in England if
wanted. The Indian board has notified
Marylebone that it does not desire to
play its matches under the new l.b.w.
rule. This came as a shock to the Eng-
lishmen, and the Indians have been asked
to guess again.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Ironmonger is definitely re-
tiring from cricket. The left-hander has
had a bad spin with enteritis in India
and cannot have enjoyed his trip. Begin-
ning his cricket with Queensland, Iron-
monger tried his luck in .N.S.W. and then
went to Victoria, where he “clicked.”
His first Test match against England was
at 41, against Chapman’s team of 1928-
29 ; he played in six Tests, taking 21
wickets. Against South Africa he was
more successful, taking 31 for 296, an
average of 9.14. A deadly bowler on a
sticky wicket, he was an impossible bat
and, except at rare moments, an even
worse fieldsman.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
St. Leger: Allunga ; next, Young
Idea.
Essendon Stakes: Cuddle ; next,
Sylvandale.
Newmarket Handicap: Regular
Bachelor, 1 ; Cardinal, 2 ; Heritor, 3.
Brunswick Stakes: Heroic Prince ;
next, Viceroy.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Pavarti; next, Bulletin.
Flying Welter: Fernacre; next,
Silver Standard.
Moorefield Handicap: Cid or
Egmont; next, Magnitas.
St. George Handicap: Regal Star ;
next, Cid or Fireman.


M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“S.G.”: Some of the cleverest boxers
in Australia are little fellows, feather-
weights and bantams: Roach, Blandon,
Miller, Clements and Clarke. Melbourne
and Sydney people are realising it, and
so are followers of the game in some of
the Sydney suburbs, but the little chaps
are never seen at the Sydney Stadium,
which prefers beef, especially dark meat.
It is an idiotic policy, for in Australia, as
in England, the highest boxing standards
have been reached and the brightest ring
entertainment furnished by small biffers,
and the crowds followed them too. No
English boxer of the past quarter-
century had a greater following than
Jimmy Wilde, who was a flyweight,
although he fought featherweights. An-
other great draw, and a great boxer
withal, was Jim Driscoll, a featherweight.
Our own GrifFo, cleverest of all Aus-
tralian boxers, present' and past, was a
featherweight and always boxed as such
in Australia ; it was not till beer became
a settled habit with him that he “grew”
out of the class.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Watching
Alderman Ike Austin deputising so
pleasantly for Brisbane’s Lud Mayor at
the reception to Helen Twelvetrees —and
envying him the job—one’s mind went
back to the days when he was one of
the heftiest middleweight amateur boxers
that ever brought an audience to its
feet in the old Brisbane Gym. He would
have done well at the game profession-
ally, and had several tempting offers.
But he was a thoughtful lad, who realised
what happened to most boxing pros,
when the faithful old equator could no
longer be kept within bounds, and took
to reporting racing instead. Now the
scene of his victories is about to give
place to dental hospitals and art gal-
leries and such softer adornments of
to-day’s softer life.
Ins and Outs
South Africa’s hope of equalising
matters in the fourth Test with Australia
at Jo’burg came a horrid crash, the tour-
ists winning by an innings and 184 and
making the series safe. The home players
seemed all at sea against O’Reilly and
Grimmett, though McCormick, who is
developing into a real fast bowler, took
valuable wickets early in both South
African innings, getting Nourse twice for
under double figures. To the Afri-
kanders’ 157 Australia replied with 439
(Fingleton 108, O’Brien 59, O’Reilly 56
n. 0.). Fast-bowler Davies justified his
selection with 4-75, including McCabe’s
wicket. The ’Boks did even worse in
the second try, when, after McCormick
had sent Siedle, Wade and Nourse to the
rightabout, Old Man Grimmett disposed
of the rest: Africa 98 (Mitchell 48 n. 0.).
Grimmett took 7-49 on top of 3-70 in the
Springboks’ first knock.
* * * *
“Sizzle”: The worst nonsense written
about cricket is surely the professional
commentators’ harping on the fallacy that
the only way a batsman can overcome
Grimmetts is to wade in and smite them.
That’s the very thing slow bowlers desire.
I’ve yet to hear of an instance where a
side, in such a position that whatever it
did didn’t matter, adopted these tactics
without immediately running into a mass
of disaster. The second innings of the
S’Africans in last week’s Test was a good
example. In a possibly hopeless posi-
tion when the innings started, they were
in an utterly hopeless one when three
quick wickets fell to McCormick’s speed.
Then Grimmett started, and, having no-
thing to hope for by playing their
natural game, the Africans took the ad-
vice of the scribes and waded in. Result:
Grimmett 7 for 40. That always happens
in such circumstances, and always will.
“Maitland”: With the last Test
against South Africa to go—it begins on
Friday—Grimmett has a chance of
bettering Whitty’s South African record
of 37 wickets in Tests. Whitty’s average
was 17.08 and Grimmett’s 31 to date
have cost 15.12 runs each. Englishman
Barnes, however, leads all the rest, like
Abu Ben Adhem’s name. In 1913-14 he
took 49 wickets at 10.93 in four Tests.
* * * *
Tenth Slip”: N.S.W.C.A. intends to
stage a benefit match to Warren Bards-
ley and Jack Gregory. Recognition of
Bardsley is long overdue. Some seasons
ago it was proposed to associate him with
several other more or less important
players in a benefit, and Bardsley’s in-
dignant refusal warmed the ears of the
Ma State heads. Bardsley was probably
the world’s greatest left-hand batsman,
though some will claim that honor for
Hill. He made 56 centuries in big cricket
—more than any other Australian bats-
man —and was the first player to notch
two centuries in a Test. In Tests he
scored three centuries against England
and the same number against South
Africa. In his three trips to England
he exceeded 2000 runs on each occa-
sion.
Gregory was one of the meteors of
the A.I.F. team. As an all-rounder, left-
hand bat, right-hand fast bowler and
slip fieldsman, Australia has not pro-
duced his superior. His bowling part-
nerships with McDonald in England
during the 1921 and 1926 tours are
cricket history.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: “Ex-Englishman” asks
indignantly by what authority I con-
demn the intentional bowling of wides
in M.L. by a Marylebone player (B.
19/2/’36). By the authority which every
fairminded sportsman has to object to
the working of a point under cover of
the rules. The plea that the provision of
one run as a penalty for a wide is
“adequate” is as naive a bit of special
pleading as I ever read. To follow up
the argument, there is nothing in the
rules to stop the fielding team smother-
ing the batsman in abuse and trying
to put him off his game in other ways
or to prevent the side in the pavilion
heaping objurgation on fieldsmen and
umpires. Both these practices are popu-
lar in American baseball, there being no
rule to prevent them, but I doubt if even
“Ex-Englishman” would care to see them
introduced to cricket —even modern
cricket.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: Australia’s old
friend Duleepsinhji has informed the
"Some garfish, Alfie."
M.L. cricket heads that Ranji’s successor,
the present Maharajah of Nawanagar, de-
sires to bring a cricket team for a short
tour of Maoriland next year at his own
expense. “Tulip” adds that he will be
a playing member of the side. That is
good news to his many friends in Aus-
tralia, for it means that he has shaken
off the serious illness which took him
out of first-class cricket several seasons
ago. M.L. has decided to welcome the
team, and no doubt Australia will try
to work a short visit.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W.C.A. has
applied to the inter-State cricket confer-
ence to have the N.S.W. v. S.A. match at
Sydney declared a win for N.S.W. on the
first innings. The match was officially
declared “abandoned.” Under the rules
for the Sheffield Shield matches each
side takes two points for an abandoned
match ; a first-innings win means three.
The extra point can make no difference
to Ma’s position on the Sftield table, and
the proposed wangle seems mean and
pettifogging.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Susie Swattit”: A new and deadly
manifestation of the golf fever has
broken out at Chatswood (N.S.W.). Not
content to let members play all day on
the course and lie all night in the club-
house, the committee has instituted night
golf. One green has been lit with elec-
tric arc lights, and if the innovation is
successful others will be similarly fixed.
At present the idea is to give putting and
short pitching practice, but heaven only
knows when it will end.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The Australian golfers
returning from the U.S.A. can take heart
if there is consolation in the misfortunes
of others. I have just been reading the
report of Commander Roe, manager of
the Ryder Cup team in the States, and
the British team’s experience runs oddly
parallel with that of the Australians.
Apart from the heavy defeat by the
Americans, the tour was a disastrous
financial failure; though the tourists
played in exhibition matches and tour-
neys as well as the Cup series, their share
of the gates was only a little over £5OO
—less than £5O a man for a month’s golf
by the best professionals in Britain. And
the Britons did not have to pay their own
expenses. Our men did.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Ferrier hasn’t lost a
chance of keeping his eye in on his trip
abroad. At Melbourne he was a stroke
under par after rushing out from the
boat to the east course of Royal Mel-
bourne. Next day he went to Metro-
politan’s course, where the national
championships will be played this year,
and took four off par with 69. He again
downed par at Kooyonga, Adelaide, with
a perfect 70.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland has had its
first experience in an open golf event of
the Stapleford system of point-scoring,
and it is probable that it will be adopted
for the State championships. A player
gets a point for a stroke over scratch, two
for scratch, three for a birdie and four
for an eagle, with a half also counting.
He is not penalised for a loss, and need
not give up the hole if he scores one
over scratch. The system has the addi-
tional advantage of inducing the player
to disregard safety-first scoring and to go
for the extra reward of a birdie or an
eagle.
The Watermen
“Blade”: There was a mild upheaval
in Sydney rowing circles when it was
announced that by agreement the Police
eight would not be considered as N.S.W.
representatives in the King’s Cup race
at Perth; a composite crew from other
Sydney clubs would be selected. The
Police have determined to go to Berlin,
even if they pay their own expenses, and
the idea is that they should be given
every chance to improve on their already
fine combination by remaining a separate
crew until the time comes for the over-
seas trip. One wishes the John Hops all
the luck there is going, but they will
meet tough opposition. Some of the
Continental crews have shown at Henley
that they are equal to Britain’s best,
and that is high flying. Police will be
the third Australian crew to try its luck
at an Olympiad. In 1912, Hardinge’s
eight, winners of the Grand Challenge,
was beaten into second place. In 1924,
the Murray Bridgers from South Aus-
tralia finished down the course. They
were somewhat stricken in years, and
that cannot be said of the Police.
* * * *
“Shell”: The prcposal to send both
Pearce and Turner to Berlin so as to
make a double-sculls team as well as
making two competitors for the singles
needs consideration. Double-sculling, so
popular overseas, is practically unknown
here, so much so in N.S.W. that a special
boat will have to be built if the idea is
taken up. Also, it is a mistake to sup-
pose that to put two champion scullers
in a boat is all that is necessary to win
the title. Double-sculling is a tricky
business, and the art cannot be picked
up in a day. I’m willing to bet that a
pair selected in Victoria, where all the
clubs feature the double sculls and the
State stages an annual championship,
would donkeylick any combination of
unaccustomed champions.
* * * *
“Huon”: Broke to the wide, the Tas-
manian rowing authorities asked permis-
sion of the other States to stay away
from the King’s Cup race at Perth this
year and to be absolved from the penal-
ties made and provided for a.w.l. The
other States have refused, and Tasmania
will now miss its next turn for holding
the race on home waters, for sending a
crew is held to be out of the question.
It is tough luck on Tassie, which has
always been a great battler for the race,
now and then under difficulties.
* * * *
“Richmond”: State rowing champion-
ships are being cleaned up with the
approach of the King’s Cup race on
May 2. The S. Aus. title was won by
the Torrens club on the Port River. The
Victorians settled their event on the
Yarra, Mercantile beating Albert Park
and Richmond in the good time of
14min. 5 2-ssec. for the 2\ miles. Peppier,
of Yarra Yarra, easily retained his sculls
title, his time being 18min. Bsec. A
cheerful feature of the eights race was
the vain attempt of the selection com-
mittee in a launch to get near the fast-
moving boats to spot the form.
Miscellaneous
“Flossie”: Australian athletic circles
have been shocked to hear that the Vic-
torian Athletic League, a professional
body, is throwing open the cash game
to the girls. Athletics and cycling are
to be specially fostered, and when a
formal start is made in November it is
hoped to have “Babe” Didrikson in Aus-
tralia as a sort of shining example. This
damsel is a sprinter, hurdler, jumper and
general exponent of field games. Those
curious persons who control male pro-
fessional runners are not inclined to talk
much, but one gathers that shepherding
a team of monkeys in the open is child’s
play to keeping a team of professional
peds and scaring other exploiters off
them. If it is as bad as that with the
lads, what sort of time is the hapless
gaffer with a team of lasses on his hands
likely to have?
* * X *
“Toowong”: One result of the row in
Brisbane over the race for the Forster
Cup will probably be the cutting down
of entries to one for each State. It was
charged against one of the Tasmanian
boats that her skipper eased sheets and
let in his colleague ahead of him for the
purpose of collecting points. The Tas-
manians admit that they practise team-
work in these races, in which they have
occupied a leading position for years,
and their opponents hold it is illegal.
Hobart “Mercury” roundly condemns
the action of the Tassie skippers.
* * * *
“Sturt”: S.A. is to be represented at
polo in Victoria by probably the most
veteran team that ever went forth as
representative of a State: Cecil Bray,
“Bunny” Barritt, Ken Bakewell, and Fred
Porter. They total somewhere about 200
years, though still like two-year-olds in
the field.
* * * *
“Everton”: A Soccer goalkeeper play-
ing in one of the League ties died as the
result of kicks received from the other
side. Britons demand stricter supervision
of games. The sentiment does the public
proud, and illustrates Britain’s venera-
tion for tradition. It has been recog-
nised from time immemorial that there
is one person only on the football field
on whose person partisan feeling may be
vented —the referee. If this rule is de-
parted from the devil knows what will
become of football.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: An Australian
Soccer team of 15 is to tour M.L., play-
ing 11 matches, the first of which is
against Wanganui on May 30. A third
of the total gates will go to the Austra-
lians, with a guarantee of £lOO. The
manager is to draw £3 a week and the
players 355.; and none of your dashed
nonsense about amateurism!
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: The Queensland open
and amateur golf championships begin at
Royal Queensland’s course on May 18
and are limited to a week, the idea being
to give southern players a chance to
compete by curtailing the time they will
have to be absent from home. Entries
close on May 13 with the secretary of
Royal Queensland. Handicap limit is 18.


FREE DANCING LESSONSj
Professor Bolot’s Wonderful FREE Offer
to all “Bulletin” Readers
Learn Dancing This New, Easy Way
you can test this wonderful course on dancing
yourself—try this famous system in your own home
and if, after 30 days, you have not become an expert
dancer, popular and sought after, it COSTS YOU
NOTHING—not one penny! But you must hurry, this
offer may never again be repeated. It places you under
no obligation whatsoever; all you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
Simple as A B C
JT does not matter if you have never danced a step in
your life before or if you have been trying for years
to dance the famous BOLOT System, the system that
has stood the test of 25 years, guarantees to make you
an accomplished dancer in just 30 days OR IT COSTS
YOU NOT ONE PENNY—it will teach you all the latest
dances—Slow Foxtrot, Quick Step, Jazz Waltz, Tango,
Rumba, etc. together with Modern Old Time. The
Bolot System never fails—you have Professor Bolot’s
personal guarantee.
Become Popular—Admired
MAGNETIC Personality—Popularity—Confidence can fie
attained with Professor Bolot’s wonderful course —you will
find yourself sought after —admired by the opposite sex—
invited out to all social functions—in short, you will become
a “social lion.” Dancing is the short cut to good times —non-
dancers and bud dancers miss all the fun In life —now Is the
time to start and take advantage of Professor Bolot’s wonderful
offer NOW—but burry, this offer is limited.
Without Music —Partner—or
Drudgery
THIS guaranteed system will teach you to dance quickly-
without music or partner—without drudgery or difficulty,
no exorbitant fees and inconvenient classes here. You become
a finished dancer almost overnight—no longer need you fie tfie
“wallflower” at all the parties or dances —YOU BECOME
POPULAR. Take advantage of this wonderful Offer of
DANCING LESSONS FREE—post the coupon NOW.
These Pupils Couldn't Dance a
Step—Now Accomplished Dancers!
“SURROUNDED BY PARTNERS.”
“I am writing to tliank you for the dancing lessons which
I received safelv. I cannot thank you enough, for I am coming
on wonderfully' with my dancing. The last dance I went to I
never missed one dance, and when the ‘Medley dance came I
was in the centre of a ring of men asking: ‘Are you engaged
for this?' ‘Can I have this dance, please? I did not know
what to do, as I could not dance with the lot of them at once.
1 simply love dancing now, thanks to you. One man told me
last dance he could dance with me forever.”—M.I. (Miss),
Wyalong, N.S.W.
“WON A WALTZ CONTEST.”
“I have much pleasure in telling you that I have mastered
your wonderful Course, and I must say that my dancing is a
credit to you, my Instructor and Teacher. I must tell you
l hat only a week ago 1 won a Waltz Contest. Tour Charts
have taught me to dance so easily and lightly.’ —E.S.S. (Mrs.),
Cambridge, N.Z.
“SURPRISED MY GIRL FRIENDS.”
“The first dance I went to after receiving your Course I
surprised everyone, especially my girl friends, with my graceful
dancing. Everyone complimented me; for I had' never danced
a step before sending for your Course.” —J.K.A. (Mr.), Llsmore,
New South Wales.
“MADE WONDERFUL PROGRESS.”
“I received your Course safely, and 1 think it wonder-
ful. 1 could not dance before I got it, but a week after
I was able to surprise my friends with my knowledge of
tlie Art. I have made wonderful progress; and 1 thank j
you very much.”—W.H. (Mr.), Milmun, Queensland.
This Offer Expires Shortly—Hurry
Coupon Along.
ĸ
Foil a limited time
only Professor ilolot
is offering these Won-
derful Dancing Lessons,
absolutely I'llIOK to
all “Kulletin” readers;
the minute the last set
of lessons go. It will he too late. Our
sincere advice to you Is to get the
coupon into the post this minute
and receive by return mall your
dancing lessons and start on the
road to popularity and good times,
which only dancing can attain for
you—Hut Hurry I
m
fl-
it
v*
i
&
4!
m
Professor .1. Bolot., F.A.K., Principal of Ihe
French Dancing Academy, Est. 25 years,
together with <‘hnriiiiiiK' partner. Professor
Itolot, Australasia's lending Dancing Instructor
nnd Authority, can make you, too, an expert
ilancei —hurry the coupon Into the mail l’or
FKEE DANCING LESSONS.
PROFESSOR BOLOT
F.A.R., E.A.D.M,
(French Dancing Academy),
DEPT. 47, BOX 3573 RR, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
(Studios 62-64-66 Oxford Street, Sydney. For Personal Tuition.)
For_ mE_M^INGJ^E^ONS -PosUouponNow!
Professor J. Bolot, F.A.R.,
I French Dancing Academy, Dept. 47, Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me liy return post your Free Lessons on Dancing, "together
with your FI4KE book, “Dancing Ah a Fine Art.” Thin, I understand, places me
I under no obligation.
Name
| Address
lt. 38 /2/’3«.
(.studios for Personal Tuition, (W-(il-(l(l Oxford Street, Sydney.)
Free Book
on
DRAWING
For You!
/USE COUPON i
\ BELOW I j
Become an ARTIST
Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE
Book Offer to Young Talent !
F
OR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, is offering absolutely FREE a copy of his
new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all readers of the “Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Let BRODIE MACK Teach
You at Home.
"p-us Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast field
it opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black -and-white art under the super-
vision of Brodie Mack. This amazing
short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home. If you have an inclina-
tion for drawing, an inclination that
many of us possess, then why compete
with the crowd in ordinary occupations?
Brodie Mack can develop your ability
for this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every year for
drawings, fashion illustrations, advertising, cata-
logues, pamphlets, books, comic strips, cartoons,
etc. Many have developed this fascinating
hobby into a highly remunerative profession,
embracing magnificent opportunities to those
people possessed of the enterprise to lift them-
selves out of the bundy-punching ruck of
mediocrity, and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in addition to its
lucrative achievement, it will lift you from
comparative obscurity to a position of import-
ance in the public life of the community.
Make Money in Your Spare Time.
Brodie Mack has made it possible by mean:
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows
you how to “cash in” on his experience.
He teaches you how to rapidly develop
your latent ability so that you are able
to produce striking illustrations and art
work. The fact of you reading this
announcement points to you having a
desire to be an artist then send for
this amazing book and let us prove that
we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
THIS EASY, RAPID WAY.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of
men and women how to draw by easy,
The Brodie Mack
Correspondence Art School,
Desk 45, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
-
A!
Vio^
r->
iJO®*
w»
I
natural stages from the simple outline
to the finished drawing t'he drawings
that will bring in good £ s. d. Brodie
Mack can teach you to draw by post
successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this.
Many famous illustrators learnt this way
—they were not born famous. This is
your opportunity to become a real artist,
capable of making faithful sketches that
will surprise your friends, delight your-
self, and take you out of the small-pay
drudgery job. This is YOUR oppor-
tunity—are you going to pass it by?
1 hen get that coupon into the mail
this moment . . . NOW!
This Free Book is for You!
“HOW TO BE AN ARTIST”
IS FREE.
Never before lias a book of this nature been
offered free; that is why you should send for your
copy now. This brand-new book shows you 'how
to draw—develop your talent —how to cartoon,
the secret of illustrating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Fill in your coupon
and get it into the post now—at once, before
you forget
POST COUPON NOWS
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School.
Desk 45, 107 I*itt Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir. —Please send me FREE, and with-
out obligation, my copy of your famous
book. “How To Be An Artist.” I enclose
2d. In stamps to defray postage.
NAME
l
ADDRESS
B. 26/2/'36.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-. ||
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-./■*“
HOTEL
ISVLNEIi
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
New Occidental
Shares in New Occidental Gold
Mines, operating at Cobar, N.S.W.,
went to 18s. before the break in the
market. They recently slumped to near
125.; there was a rise of a shilling or
so last week following reports of good
values in No. 9 crosscut.
The co. was floated in Sydney on an
undated prospectus, “For Private Circu-
lation Only,” about the beginning of
1934. Directors were Arthur Vickery
(pastoralist), T. M. Owen (mining
engineer and metallurgist) and W. U.
Goodall (machinery merchant). The
prospectus baldly stated that 220,000
fully-paid ss. shares were “to be ex-
changed for the shares in Occidental
Gold Mines, N.L.” The new co. was
formed “‘for the purpose (inter alia)
of acquiring the mine, installing suit-
able plant, and of developing and
working the mine.” Two contracts
were referred to, details of which were
not given in the prospectus.
The public took up 250,000 ss. shares
at the beginning; there are now 812,449
out altogether. Many are held outside
N. S. Wales, especially in Melbourne.
Favorable report's by the
N.S.W. Mines Department
and T. M. Owen were in-
cluded in the prospectus, the
first-mentioned authority re-
cording that “ore reserves
were estimated....at
approximately 120,000 tons,
the average grade being
lOdwt. of gold per ton. This
tonnage.. . .does not include
ore which may exist at a
depth exceeding 740 ft.”
At the co.’s first meeting
(January 30, 1935), Mr.
Vickery presided. In the
course of his address he
said:
Do not for one minute
imagine because we have de-
veloped some 300,000 tons of
ore by this small amount of
work that this is anything
like what we are going to
achieve. I am hoping, before
we come here next year, that
we will have at least two
more levels down, and
assuming that it carries the
width down —which looks
an absolute certainty—we
should have another quarter
of a million tons of ore,
and I am quite sure that your board will
not be content with sinking the shaft
the extra two levels that we are setting
about now. We are hoping to commence
the work within the next week or two, so
that if it meets with the success that I feel
sure it will, and if we do some develop-
ment work in the upper levels by extending
north and south and meet with the success
that I feel sure we will, I quite anticipate
that I might have the pleasure of sug-
gesting a still further increase in the treat-
ment plant.
It is apt and lucid expressions of this
kind (a report of the proceedings was
printed and circulated) that shareholders
who bought at 18s. are consoling them-
selves with at present. And perhaps
also with that concluding remark, after
approximately 2500 words:
I have not much more to say. I think
I should mention that we shortly expect
that there will be an aeroplane service to
Cobar, and by-and-bye when we get the
plant swinging along smoothly some share-
holders may be interested enough to go
to Cobar, and if we see people are inter-
ested we will make a visiting day and give
shareholders every facility to inspect their
property.
In the course of his address Mr.
Vickery did tell shareholders that testing
had borne out the statements of the
vendors, that a crosscut at 840 ft. showed
the lode to be 63ft. wide and going
8.47dwt., that the mine manager esti-
mated some ore reserves at 316,000 tons
of between Bdwt. and 9dwt. values, and
that diamond-drilling had proved an ex-
tension of the ore-body on No. 6 level,
going, “I think, an average of B|dwt.”
Also, that the 6000-tons-a-month plant
was nearing completion, and that share-
holders were
all in a position to know what Bldwt.
ore would be worth on a basis of 88 p.c.
recovery, and when probable tonnage cost
of treatment is 245. or 255.
Naturally they would not be without
knowing the cost of mining, unless
“treatment” included that item.
The plant, tipped at this time to start
in February, 1935, was officially opened
on July 6. For the three months to the
end of September average recoveries were
6.62dwt., the latter month being credited
with 7.77dwt., which “more truly repre-
sents the average grade of ore.” Costs,
as might be expected at the beginning,
weren’t within coo-ee of 255. a ton.
Average recoveries since September
have been: October, B.9dwt.; Novem-
ber, Bdwt.; December, 6.6dwt.;
January, 6.9dwt. This, one assumes,
on stone from ore reserves “having a
value between Bdwt. and 9dwt.” and from
a lode which Mr. Vickery believed to be
“easily the best on the eastern side of
Australia.”
“That the Minister for Defence? I've just invented something you ought
to be interested in—a painless bayonet."
If any explanations have gone forth
with the monthly milling returns show-
ing the recent fall in recoveries, they
are not recorded in the daily press or
the Stock Exchange official lists.
Assuming that Bdwt. recoveries and
30s. costs are possible on an extensive
scale, from treatment of the 9000 tons a
month eventually aimed at 100 p.c. divi-
dends are on the cards. If such dividends
do eventuate within a couple of years the
shares are obviously worth much more
than 13s. or so now.
The time has come for a report by
one or more independent engineers on
the merits of the New Occidental mine
from a shareholders’ viewpoint—a report
shorn of “I hopes,” “I am sures” and “I
quite anticipates.” Evidently holders
are nervy ; if there is no cause for their
concern, it should be allayed as soon as
possible. Some people who have gone
over the mine believe it to be a show of
outstanding possibilities.
After a most encouragingly firm price
for some weeks, wheat has become slow
of sale again, with a weak market. This
state of affairs isn’t confined to Australia.
There has been a serious decline in
Argentine shipping freights owing to a
reluctance on the part of buyers and
sellers of the grain to “click” at present
prices. Fortunately for Australia, our
wool is going away at rates that are a
big improvement on the season’s opening
quotes. In Sydney, recent averages have
been over 16d.
* * * *
In Australia investors are a bit chary
of putting their money into other States’
industries, even when the shares of, say, a
Victorian stock are listed in Sydney.
Sharebrokers are sometimes responsible ;
they like dealing on their own ’Change.
Another factor is overlapping and dupli-
cated taxation, which often makes a big
difference in the gross and net return.
Sydney investors, however, might find if
profitable to take an interest in Yarra
Falls and Gordon and Gotch, two Vic-
torian stocks listed in Sydney. Castle-
maine-Perkins (Brisbane) is another.
* * * *
Buckley and Nunn, the Bourke-street,
Melbourne, retailers, have had a thin
time these last two years, and put up a
somewhat unsteady performance the three
years before that. “Excessive Continental
and Eastern purchases,” made iti antici-
pation of a big centenary business, eventu-
ally had to be put' out at cut prices.
There is a little speculation in the ordi-
naries at present at 15s. 3d. It will call
for hard spadework, however, to put this
scrip on a reasonable div. basis again.
Trade recovery in Melbourne hasn’t been
so spectacular as in Sydney, though
Myers, next door to Buckleys, are pay-
ing 1\ p.c. to ords. Buckley’s stock
values (£199,678) last balance day were
the lowest for years. Which may mean
that any improvement in turnover will
be more quickly reflected in future
earnings.
* * * *
On July 26, 1932, shareholders in Cox
Bros. (Aust.), Ltd., and Cox Investments,
Ltd. (headquarters in Melbourne), agreed
to an amalgamation. Super-tax on
revenue from the working co. previously
had to be paid by the Investment Co.,
there was a duplication of overhead,
and, without co-operation between the
two sets .of shareholders, there was
danger of liquidation. Both cos. showed
losses in 1931. There was no writing-
down ; the amalgamated co. started off
with a capital actually £63,626 higher
than that of the two old cos. combined.
The ords. in 1933 could be picked up
at 2s. So rapid has the recovery in
earnings and finances been since then
that the ords. had run up to 455. last
week. In 1932 44,000 ords. in the old
co. were forfeited for non-payment of
calls! The business is a chain-store
organisation (operating 32 stores in all
States except Queensland), specialising
in drapery and furniture, sometimes on
t.p. Last year, if there had been no
arrears to wipe out on the prefs., profits
would have paid an 11.3 p.c. dividend
on the ordinaries. Stock values
(£44,113 in a capital of £372,126) have
been kept extraordinarily low. The
market wasn’t disappointed when no
ord. distribution came along with the
pref. interim last week.
* * * *
Dunlop-Perdriau ords. have weak-
ened during the present general buoy-
ancy in industrials. The co. has a top-
heavy capital, and for a long time after
the Perdriau merger it had a top-heavy
board —15 directors at one stage. The
number has since been brought down
to nine, and the aim is to reduce it
further. New management has been in-
troduced, special attention has been
directed to factory control, personnel
and plant', and there has been some sub-
stantial writing-down as regards out-of-
date machinery. The co. has extensive
trading connections and goodwill.
Though no div. was paid last term, the
ords. seem better buying now than for
some years. The burden of overhead,
especially salaries, may be brought better
into hand with the effluxion of time.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell, tipped as likely to increase
its div. shortly (B. and recent
mining developments in regard to which
have been recorded (almost a weekly
feature), has had a big lift in the share-
market. From below par a few weeks
back the £1 shares had run up to 265. at
one stage last week, there being a rise
of two shillings in a day or so. The
world has large known copper deposits,
many of which can be treated much
cheaper than Lyell’s. But at present pro-
duction is controlled, and international
policy (for the nonce, at any rate) seems
to be that of live and let live. On an
output of 14,000 tons of electrolytic a
year an increase of £1 (stg.) in the
London price means an extra 1 p.c. on
capital in added revenue to Lyell. Aver-
age price of copper in the co.’s past term
was £33 Bs. 9d. stg. ; last week it was
£4O 10s. (£5O 12s. 6d. Aust.). Costs this
term should be appreciably below last
year’s net £43 2s. (Aust.), and invest
ment returns (mostly from fertilisers and
chemicals) should reflect the improved
economic position.
* * * *
After having been lifted to 90 p.c. of
1929 output towards the close of 1935,
the production quota under the tin-
restriction scheme has been brought back
to 85 p.c. The persistent raising of per-
missible output in the last quarter of
1935 followed an acute but temporary
shortage of “spot” supplies in London.
The metal went to over £240 at one
stage. It has since been down to around
£2OO, firming to around £2lO last week.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Mt. Lyell-- 1 shares heavily dealt in at higher
prices, firmness in overseas metal prices con-
tinuing. Monday’s official sales totalled 7000
shares, price ranging from 245. to 255. 2d.,
later in the week rising above 265.
Broken Hill South shares bought freely at
increased prices. At £5 18s., on 62£ p.c. div.
basis, gross yield 10.7 p.c. Overseas lead price
improved during the week, following rearma-
ment talk.
North Broken Hills rose over £8; silver
slightly firmer in London.
New Occidentals were sold in substantial
parcels—on some days activity was greater
than in Sydney. Price moved up from around
12s. to 13s. 4d.
Lancefield scrip was the weakest for months,
falling to 10s. 3d. on Wednesday, when 2500
shares changed hands. There was big turnover
also on Thursday.
Tritons were well held on rising market.
Few dealings, though there were sales both
here and in Adelaide at 14s. 3d.
Dunlop-Perdriau ords. weakened to 15s. Id.
on Wednesday on the sale of 3500 shares, re-
covering to 15s 6d. on Friday. Considerable
speculation in this stock, forward dealings
being registered.
Upper Watut (N.G.) shares reacted; from
speculative price of Bs. 3d. (following chair-
man’s visit to U.S.A.) the scrip dropped back
to 7s. 6d.
Industrial shares maintained a firm market.
Castlemaine-Perkins, the Brisbane brewery,
whose name has been linked in conversation
with Carlton and United, rose to 275. Elec-
trolytic Zinc ords. jumped to 40s. (from
355. a few weeks ago) following 8 p.c. div.,
increased overseas price for the metal and
reopening of Mt. Read-Rosebery mines. Carl-
ton Brewery improved to 575. following 10 p.c.
distribution.
Henry Jones shares were sought after at
40s. 9d.; previous sale 41s. 6d. Few sellers.
Last div. was 8} p.c., and present yield is
about 4.2 pc. Price seems justified on the co. s
past performances and future prospects. Next
distribution is due in June.
British Tobacco ords. sold to 435., giving
a yield of slightly under 2.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. Interim due in March.
Upper Sepik shares, on the unofficial list,
dropped heavily following a cable from New
Guinea advising discontinuance of testing.
Sales were made at - £7 a few weeks ago;
on Friday they were changing hands at 15s.


IsiilA]
tAOTo^
°ii
No longer need excessive carbon deposits give you
trouble and expense—Atlantic New-Process Motor
Oil eliminates them completely!
This new Oil has the improved body ... the intensi-
fied resistance essential for correct lubrication of
modern high-temperature, high-speed engines.
It outperforms . . . outlasts any other oil ever intro-
duced and contains none of their disadvantages
such as sludging . . . gumming and carbonising.
This guarantees smoother operation throughout . ..
less replacement of worn parts and, conseguentlv,
an actual cash saving!
Drain and refill to-day with this marvellous Atlantic
New-Process Motor Oil.
YM
lri® "i
v<
ss
Lrf
SB838&&
atlanti c
MOTOR OIL
THE PERFECT RUNNING MATE TO ATLANTIC ETHYL
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD.,
AUSTRALIA ft NEW ZEALAND.
A.M.O. 3-48-S9.
THE PERFECT MOTOR SPIRIT


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Mutiny on the Bounty’*
J. H. M. Abbott rakes the historical
details fore and aft:
It is one of the best films ever ex-
hibited in this country ; but the scenario-
writers should have stuck to the story.
Sending Bligh out in H.M.S. Pandora
and debiting him with the cruel and
callous behavior of that warship’s real
commander during his ill-fated voyage
is not only a libel on a fine seaman and
brave man —Cook and Nelson recognised
his real merit—but is also an unwar-
Charles Laughton as Bligh in
“Mutiny on the Bounty
ranted and unnecessary perversion of
historical fact. Edwards filled the bill as
a callous bully much better than Bligh
would have done had he really been in
command of the frigate that found the
14 survivors of the missing Bounty at
Tahiti. Here is the story of the Pan-
dora’s voyage:
She was sent from England at the end
of 1790 to try to find the mutineers,
and, when she arrived in Matarai Bay,
Peter Heywood and George Stewart, mid-
shipmen, together with 12 petty officers
and seamen, gave themselves up, inform-
ing Captain Edwards that the Bounty had
sailed with the remainder of her crew
for some destination unknown to them.
Edwards immediately put them all in
irons, built a timber prison on the
quarter-deck and locked them up in it.
In “Pandora’s Box,” as this fearful den
came to be called, they suffered severely,
and nothing can extenuate Edwards’s
cruel treatment of his prisoners. The
frigate sailed from Tahiti in August,
1791, after vainly searching the islands
for the rest of the mutineers, shaping a
course for Timor in the Dutch East
Indies.
On the 28th she struck a reef. The
ship survived the battering of the
waves until the following morning, when
the survivors—3s of the crew and four
of the mutineers, including Midshipman
Stewart, were drowned —took to the four
boats and began a voyage of 1000 miles
to Timor. There were 99 of them, and
they reached Koepang on September 19,
after suffering the greatest hardships,
which were intensified in the case of
the prisoners by the most unforgivable
cruelty on the part of Captain Edwards.
While the frigate was going to pieces the
mutineers were actually kept in irons,
locked up in their box, and if it had not
been for Boatswain’s-mate James Moul-
ter, who broke it open, would have
perished.
The mutineers were tried by court-
martial in Portsmouth Harbor in Sep-
tember, 1792. Bligh was not present at
the trial, as he is dramatically repre-
sented to have been in the film, but had
left behind him as much damning evi-
dence as he could collect, suppressing
facts that might have told in some of
the prisoners’ favor. Four of the men
were acquitted, but Heywood, Morrison,
the boatswain’s-mate and four seamen
were found guilty of mutiny. Three of
the latter were hanged from the yardarm.
Heywood, Morrison and Able-seaman
Muspratt were pardoned. It was evident
that the Admiralty believed in the inno-
cence of these three, for Heywood after-
wards served in the Royal Navy with dis-
tinction, dying a port-captain in 1831.
Morrison was drowned as gunner of
H.M.S. Blenheim, when she was lost off
the island of Rodriguez in 1807.
“So Red the Rose”
Beauty of treatment has made this pic-
ture of the American Civil War a memor-
able one. The plot is slight, yet one is
conscious of its slenderness only in retro-
spect, so skilfully have comedy, pathos
and romance been blended. The tide of
war flows and ebbs about a stately old
Southern mansion. First a family friend,
then the son and then the father join the
Confederate army. It is only when the
son falls that a cousin, lover of the
daughter of the house, decides, after hav-
ing held out against joining on the
ground that it is stupidly tragic for
American to fight American, at last de-
cides to fight, becoming eventually as
bellicose as the most rabid partisan.
All the dignity of the old South has
been faithfully re-created, and the sure
touch of director Vidor is apparent in
his sympathetic handling of negro
episodes. The loveliness of the outdoor
effects has never been surpassed on the
screen, and the final shot, as the heroine
hastens to her returning soldier-lover
through a flood of sunlight between huge
trees on the plantation, is a photographic
gem.
Margaret Sullavan handles the leading
feminine role with ease and charm, and
Randolph Scott is excellent as the lover-
cousin. Robert Cummings makes his
bow to the screen, and a good bow it is.
He has virility and intelligence, and his
showing in this film should put him in
Franchot Tone as Midshipman By am.
the top flight. Janet Beecher is compe-
tent as a grief-stricken wife and mother,
and there is some excellent character act-
ing by Walter Connolly and Elizabeth
Patterson. Casting, in fact, is good
throughout. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Millions in the Air”
When it was announced that this was
yet another amateur-radio-hour-inspired
film, this critic feared the worst. But
pessimism was misplaced. This talkie is
the most joyous thing the microphone
has yet given to the screen. The plot
follows the old trail of the rich daugh-
ter of the session’s sponsor who pals
up with a young ice-cream vendor who
is trying to land Fame and a prize of
500 bucks as a radio singer. The heavy
father at first tries to scotch the friend-
ship ; eventually, for his bluff exterior
hides a heart of gold, he is busily em-
Clark Gable as Christian.
ployed reconciling the lovers after they’ve
had a tiff. The whole thing goes with a
swing, and is light, gay and wholesome. A
performance of the quartet from “Rigo-
letto,” with excellent-voiced soprano,
tenor and contralto, and the baritone as
a dopey-looking individual who just
about reaches up to the heavyweight
soprano’s ample bosom, and who punc-
tuates the concerted effort with agonised
squawks without spoiling the melody, is
capital. Wendy Barrie as a radio singer
is a good argument in favor of television,
and John Howard, new to celluloid, has
a pleasing personality. There is a clever
tap-dancing turn by Eleanore Whitney.
George Barbier is in his accustomed role
as the domineering father who takes
orders from his daughter. Also at Prince
Edward.
“Age of Indiscretion"
This plot crops up once a month—the
too-kind husband, the extravagant wife
who leaves him when times get hard and
the efficient but pretty secretary whose
worship of him is plain to everyone but
himself. Paul Lukas, Helen Vinson
and Madge Evans fill the parts
adequately, but the really vital figures in
the piece are May Robson as a rich,
domineering old woman and David Jack
Holt, aged 7, ex-leading boy to Shirley
Temple. A short scene in which these
two go tobogganing compensates a little
for the more hackneyed parts of the film.
“The Perfect Gentleman"
Not one of Cicely Courtneidge’s best
pictures, though she works hard to make
it a success —the most amusing bit is
when she dances a rumba (and what a
rumba!) with Herbert Mundin, who is
Hitch the bailiff. Frank Morgan as the
irrepressible Major should have been in
gaol long ago. Selling tickets to Buck-
ingham Palace is only one of his crimes.
He makes a monkey out of the Bishop, is
a blot on the career of his own vicar
son (Richard Waring) and elicits grim
disapproval from his spinster sister Har-
riet (Una O’Connor), who has a hard
heart and a face remarkably like a turkey.
But he gets on swimmingly with his nice
daughter-in-law (Heather Angel). Even
his pawnbroker turns him down, and i:
the final scene he has empty pockets j-
his impeccable evening clothes while
proposed to by Cicely, whose first nieh
has brought down a music hall. At Mel-
bourne Metro.
“Rendezvous”
A war film from which the spectator
will emerge in a dazed condition. Wil-
liam Powell as Lieut. Bill Gordon has a
brain like the inside of a Chubb lock-
full of secret codes and their solutions.
Uncle Sam’s War Office consists of long
passages with hundreds of doors all
marked “Keep Out” and a code room
where a large number of men and women
work - with eyeshades, blackboards and
revolving wheels, and where the heroine
(Rosalind Russell) walks in and out when
she feels like it. Rosalind does absurd
things like putting sleeping draughts in
Bill’s coffee to give him a rest, presenting
him with a bullet-proof shirt and gener-
ally getting in everybody’s way. Binnie
Barnes is a beautiful spy who polishes
off a sort of super-spy (Lionel Atwill) with
a revolver, but all the players are so
busy searching one another’s apartments,
putting one another’s clothing through
chemical analysis and sitting in labora-
tories among test tubes and Bunsen
burners that no one bothers to accuse the
lissom Binnie of murder. There are
spots of comedy to vary the tedium of
the show.
Some First Nights
In plain print the story behind “Jill.
Darling,” presented by J.C.W. at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s on Saturday night,
looks rather too flimsy to raise more than
a grin. One or two of the gags (“Have
an accident?” “No, thanks; just had
one”) are pre-war. But the audience
didn’t sit on its hands on Saturday night,
and this showman, too, thoroughly en-
joyed the performance.
Pretty girls in pretty frocks, charming
ballets and catchy songs, smart patter
and a spice of vulgarity—none of these
regular ingredients falls flat. The dance
turns of Bert Matthews, associated on
the New York stage with the Marx
Brothers, were brilliant. This comedian
at times affects the woodenness of a
marionette or “twistum” doll, with great
success. After his act with Lois Green
on Saturday the audience clamored for
more.
Leo Franklyn, who plays a double
part, is on stage for almost the entire
Herbert Mundin as the cook.
performance ; he is entertaining all the
while. So is Nellie Barnes. Diana Du
Cane and Frank Leighton have slight!)
more subdued parts in the story, but
sparkle in their dance numbers, including
a see-saw novelty. Marie Le Varre, Cecil
Kellaway and Charles Zoli are foils for
the more irrepressible characters.
The story is roughly a feud of Mon-
tagues and Capulets. Cecil Kelleway, a
peppery colonel, runs a pub; Charles
Zoli, a Scottish nobleman, markets a
temperance drink called “Ososoba.” He


A GENTLEMAN’S RESIDENCE OF UNUSUAL CHARM.
WREST POINT," HOBART, TASMANIA
“Wrest Point” com-
mands one of the
best home sites in
Australia. It is
ideally situated, with
very extensive water
frontages, within 2
miles of the centre
of the city, and
occupies over 3
acres of well-planned
gardens, which
combine to produce
an atmosphere of
refi nem e n t and
seclusion.
REMARKABLY
HEALTHY
CLIMATE.
OFFERED BY ORDER OF MRS. MINNETTE-LUCAS.
k
A UNIQUE HOME FOR A GENTLEMAN OF DISCRIMINATION
Four Reception-rooms, Sunroom, 5 Bedrooms, 3 Bathrooms,
Maids’ Quarters, Splendidly Equipped and Furnished throughout.
TO BE SACRIFICED AT HALF COST FOR IMMEDIATE SALE
Full particulars on application to
FREEMAN, DUFF & CO.,
OXFORD HOUSE, 148 COLLINS STREET, HOBART,
Incorporated by
Royal Charter, 1835
The BANK of
AUSTRALASIA
Head Office for Australasia: 394 Collins St., Melbourne
Head Office for New South Wales Branches:
Martin Place (opp. G.P.0.), Sydney
Paid-up Capital . . . £4,500,000
Reserve Fund .... 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (Reserve
Funds used in the business
of the Bank.) .... 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Pro-
prietors under the Charter. 4,500,000
£13,475,000
The Bank of Australasia has been established for more than 100
years. It maintains close contact with all commercial activities
through its two offices in London, branches in all principal cities
and towns in Australia and New Zealand, and agents in all parts
of the world. The Bank is exceptionally well-equipped to under-
take any kind of banking and exchange business.
| -
iroiv
x
is
ifS
:
esai
HIM
vyQSZIu
■■■Ml
i
cream
m
n»
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra monev weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per
manentlv profitable as your own business. Full lnformati n ps ed
no obligation. Write JOHN GII.MOLK CO\., LTD. Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge It Parramatta Rds., CamperdOw n, Sydney, N.S. .V.
wants to put his prospective son-in-law
into Parliament in order to further pro-
hibition. . . , ,
The younger folk in the rival houses
are variously mixed up amorously and
socially—landing in gaol on one occa-
sion—at all times to the embarrassment
of their elders. Play closes with a vic-
tory for booze, several intoxications and
a happy ending for everybody.
•J. •}*
“We Travel Alone,” S. N. Behrman’s
comic satire of American morality and
psychology (produced in London by
Noel Coward under the title of
“Biography” and seen on the screen
under yet another name), was admirably
staged and acted at Melbourne’s Little
Theatre on Friday. The principal figure
is Marion Froude (Edith Bell), a por-
trait-painter who is accused of vamping
celebrities into sitting for her. Charged
by an exasperated admirer with being a
parasite, she retorts, “A benevolent para-
site” ; when called “promiscuous and
evil,” she says, “No —casual.” And
“casual” is the word.
Brett Randall is the producer. The
entire scene is in Marion’s studio on
West 17th-street, N’York. Leander Nolan
“The Fencer," by H.A. Hanke, at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney.
(Frederick Trotter), an old school-chum
from Tennessee, calls on her much pub-
licised return from Europe ; he, as a suc-_
cessful lawyer and aspirant for the
Senate, comes to scold, but stays to be
ensnared again. He believes himself to
have been a party to Marion’s first in-
discretion —back in Nashville —and feels
in some way responsible for her after-
life.
Trotter’s interpretation of this self-
important person with some real human-
ity underneath is hilariously excellent.
Richard Kurt (Robert Bennett), an em-
bittered young editor who wishes to buy
Marion’s memoirs—and thereby antagon-
ises Nolan and his prospective father-
in-law, Orrien Kinnicott (William
Reynolds), a newspaper magnate—be-
comes enamored of the lady, as do all the
males in the play except Melchoir Fey-
dak (Jack Heard), an Austrian composer
and guide, philosopher and friend to
Marion, and Warwick Urlson (Jack Wilt-
shire), a super-screen lover.
The passionate males storm and
threaten ; Slade Kinnicott (Judy Thomas),
Nolan’s fiancee meets her “rival” more
with interest than jealousy ; the suitors,
after baring their souls to the placid
Marion, go home more or less satisfied
with her plea—which Reno would tag as
"mental incompatibility”—in regard to
all of them. Marion at the end receives
a painting commission from Hollywood.
She and her German maid (Leila Pirani)
pack up. “We travel alone,” says Marion.
•!- 4* 4*
The musical society recently formed
by the Jewish community in Sydney
made its debut with a performance of
“The Mikado.” Joe Josephs was pro-
ducer, and in the cast were George
Amsberg, who made a dignified Mikado ;
May Goldberg, who got a lot of fun
out of Katisha, and Edna Goldberg, who
was at home in the part of Pitti-Sing.
Madge Fox was Yum-Yum. Ralph Levy
waved the baton.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Firm objects to the term “J.C.W.-
Gregan McMahon players” in the criti-
cism of “Night Must Fall” (B. 19/2/’36).
“It is entirely a J. C. Williamson attrac-
tion.... Mr. Gregan McMahon’s only
association is as paid producer.” The re-
viewer wasn’t concerned with pay; he
was thinking of art and—especially—
brevity.
Current Arthur sts
There is a bewildering multitude of
black-and-white humorous drawings in
The Bulletin’s show at David Jones’s
gallery, Sydney, but the stuff on view is
all comparatively recent, excludes poli-
tical and topical cartoons, and doesn’t
represent one-tenth of one per cent, of
the drawings the paper has published.
What is notable about the show is that it
represents so large a number of artists
who have developed styles which make
the signature redundant. There seem to
be many more of these individualists
to-day than there were in earlier years.
“Hop,” Phil May, Dqvid Low, Dave
Souter, Norman Lindsay, to name five
great stylists who drew for The Bulletin
20 years or more ago, stood out among
their contemporaries like whales in a
shoal of sardines. Hopkins, May and
Souter are dead ; Low has been claimed
by London ; Lindsay alone remains to
the paper (still easily holding a high
niche as master of the comic line), but
a sizable platoon of artists has arisen to
take the place of the dead and gone—
all topnotchers in their way, and all with
humor in their pens and brushes. Scor-
field excels in the sort of story-in-a-page-
of-drawings that “Hop” or his under-
study did so wittily; George Johnston
has developed a decorative style, quite his
own, of a grace comparable with D. H.
Souter’s ; Unk White and Quinlan limn
curves more voluptuous than fell from
any save Norman Lindsay’s pen in days
of yore ; Syd Miller has developed a field
of his own and gets fun out of zoology :
Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Jacks, B. E.
Minns’s abos., W. Gill’s Papuan belles
and Prain’s Maoris gather grins from
places not previously exploited ; carica-
turists such as Frith and Finey do things
to the human countenance more daringly
than was dreamed of two decades ago .
G. K. Townshend presents Australian
types with rather greater fidelity, if with
less economy of line, than May did, and
all-rounders like Aria, the Paterson
sisters, Percy Lindsay and Stuart Peter-
son produce month after month drawings
that can be placed in any company. The
sort of black-and-white art The Bulletin
has made popular has never had so many
talented exponents as it has to-day.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A curiously uneven show is that of the
pictures of H. A. Hanke at Rubery
Bennett’s galleries, Sydney. Hanke
earned his bread as a concrete-mipcer
(much more resourceful than starving in
a garret) before he compelled recognition
of his claims as a painter by winning the
1934 Archibald Prize with a self-portrait.
Though the conditions of the prize aren’t
very rigorous, they do suggest' that the
subject of the winning canvas should be
a distinguished Australian, so the painter
can’t be accused of lack of self-confi-
dence. Though he is now one of the
best-known portraitists in this country he
is by no means wedded to that form of
art. Like every artist whose mental
growth hasn't ceased, he is an experi-
menter.
He has tried landscape, still-life, street
scenes and the nude, and in landscape he
has developed not one style but three.
Firmest and most effective of these —a
manner that shouts “I know exactly what
1 have to say”—is exemplified in “Old
Windsor,” “On the Lake, Narrabeen,”
“The Track to the Beach,” “Blacksmith’s
Shop,. Wilberforce,” and “The Hole in
the Wall, Windsor.” In these, pictorial
elements and color contrasts are reduced
to their simplest denominator, and the
result, though it has formula stamped all
over it, is charming. In other modes
altogether are “Noon,” “Coast near
Narrabeen” and “Stormy Sky.” The
touch is less sure, though fidelity to things
seen is perhaps greater. “In “Hawkes-
bury River” the coloring, particularly of
the water, is unusual, but the picture
hangs together and there is merit in the
d es ig n>
Among street scenes the most success-
ful is “Harrington-street,” with a glimpse
of Sydney’s Harbor Bridge towering in
the background. The atmosphere and
coloring of that neighborhood are exactly
caught. “The Fruit Stall” is another
authentic glimpse of Sydney. “The
Copper Kettle and Flowers and Fruit
are technically excellent still-lifes, but.
undistinguished. Cannas, on the other
hand, is a riot of color that nobody but
Hanke would have done just like that.
The one nude, “Reflections,” though very
cleverly painted, is just a catalogue of
thmgs that are not in any essential re-
lation. Bernard Hall used the same
props more daintily, if not less artificially.
Of the portraits, especially the Archi-
bald Prize effort and “The Fencer,” the
latter reproduced on this page (the sub-
ject is Unk White, whose black-and-white
drawings help to make The Bulletin),
it is possible to write in terms of whole-
hearted appreciation. Hanke is an adept
at posing, and the pose is used to express
the character of the sitter. He has
tricks—note the shadow that slants across
the lower part of the fencer, and how it
f ives de P th and modelling to the whole
£§ ure but * are mi §^ tl |y effective,
Yvonne and Green and Grey, por-
trai*s ladies, are estimable examples
of drawing and of the intelligent use of
ought color,
4* 4* 4* 4*
Isabel Mackenzie, whose oils and
vvater-colors are shown at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, deserves a cheer for
being the first Sydneyside brush-wielder
j n critic’s experience who has tackled
the fl ame -tree, in season the most deco-
rative note in the city scen e. j n “Rush-
cutter B ay,” a wa ter-color, she .makes
pl a y with these splashes of crimson in
the foreground, and the effect is delight-
ful. There is some nice color also in
“Church Hill,” in oils. A glimpse from
Signal Hill, looking westwards, is also
meritorious, and “Reflections,” a design
in which a red-roofed houseboat is the
principal interest, is effectively composed,
Several rural landscapes, quiet in tone,
are further evidences of good taste.


Educational;
DO YOU
KNOW THIS ?
DACOMB is the MODERN commercial
system of training—“ The great time
saver.”
This new method is spreading all over
the World. Call or send for FREE
Demonstration Lesson.
The DACOMB College
Full Commercial Course,
Personal or Correspondence,
Presgrave Building ,
Cnr. Hovrey Court & Lit. Collins St., Melb.
’Phones: Central 3825; Windsor 5G93.
Make Paris Your Headquarters in May
and visit
THE PARIS INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR.
Whatever your business you will find exhibits of intimate appeal. Whatever you
manufacture you will find visitors and buyers directly interested in your display.
This year a record number of exhibitors are to participate, and more than 2,000,000
visitors from all parts of the world are expected.
Take advantage of this marvellous opportunity to keep in touch with the latest
developments abroad.
For full particulars apply to the
Trade Commissioner for France, 7 IV vnyard Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends-
WILL JOHN McINTOSH TRAINOR. bor
at Pitfield, Victoria, and later a member of tL
Victorian Police, stationed at Kensington, NL
bourne, who is entitled to a legacy under tr.
will of his uncle, Hugh Kirkland Mclntosh,
of Pitfield, grazier, or anyone who can gn-
information as to his whereabouts, please: com-
municate at once with DAVID CLAKtyt
& SON, Lydiard Street, Ballarat, Solicitors tc
the estate of the said Hugh Kirkland
Intosh?
If any illustration in The Bulletin taks
your fancy, write to the manager, who vu*
quote you price for the original.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Port Jackson was all blue wave and
crested foam for its hundredth regatta.
Saturday was one of the few perfect,
days this summer has known, and little
sails spread crisply in a businesslike
manner, for a full Anniversary Day’s pro-
gramme had to be raced in the afternoon.
There’s nothing Sydney likes more than
a water-front carnival, and thousands
went out, tea basket in car or carrying
the substantial sandwich in their suit-
cases, and lined Bradley’s Head, Clark
Island, Kirribilli, Cremorne and every
good viewpoint about the Harbor ways.
Apart from the competing dinghies,
skiffs and yachts, the tumble of blue
waves was gay with the holiday craft,
whose girl cargoes were keen followers
of the racing. Off Cremorne the Bara-
goola, the flagship, was dressed for the
occasion. Here Minister for Defence
Parkhill made a speech on the Empire
and its ocean tracks; and Deputy-
Premier Bruxner spoke a piece to the
glory of the pioneers.
This Letter went, among others, to
Anthony Horderns’ winter fashion dis-
play. Highlights picked out were a
Renaissance hostess gown. If Lady
Macbeth had had one or two such
shipped to her, her thoughts would never
have concerned themselves with stab-
bing exercises, but Will Shakspeare would
have lacked the honest' penny he
made by writing the tragedy. This
Renaissance gown is 14 on the list, and
is priced so that it will not strike with
apoplexy even the husband suffering from
blood pressure. In angel crepe, it is the
blue of the Madonna’s cloak in old
Italian pictures, or, to bring it nearer
home, the sky above Cremorne on a
cloudless day. On the reverse side it is
a pale mauve. The sleeves are fitting
over the shoulder tops ; then they fall in
a loop almost to the hem. This hem is
turned back to show an inch or so of the
violet, and a violet flower is fastened at
the gold belt.
A dinner suit in black uncrushable
velvet, worn the first time the latest lad
invited you to dinner, would certainly
net a second meal-ticket. The hip-length
coat is fastened with one crystal button.
Its sleeves are long and full and puffed
at the wrist. When the coat is opened
it shows a blouse of gold-starred black
net. The Greek line is seen in a white
chiffon evening frock, its fulness all
brought to the left side ; it is girdled in
green velvet. With this goes a green
velvet evening coat, hooded in the
manner of the moment.
There is also a black taffeta frock with
a tight little bodice and a skirt of many
gores that spreads out from the hips in
movement as graceful as a black swan.
Fur and velvet flourish on every
garment. Soft feather mounts curl
snugly to the head. Daytime skirts are
short, and costume coats waggle defiant
basques. Gloucester green, which has
a stirring, hard-riding sound against the
equally popular color tip Tuscan wine
(a relation to the old ashes of roses),
comes half-way between bottle and
emerald, being not so dark as the first
nor so bright as the second.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
had its annual meeting last Wednesday
in the Education Department’s assembly
hall. After the throes of an election it
emerged with Frank Dalby Davison as
its president, Bill Fitz Henry as its secre-
tary. It also trails in clouds of glory 12
vice-presidents, and has declared Minis-
ter for Education Drummond its patron.
Flora Eldershaw, who has been the
Fellowship’s president for some months,
did not go up for re-election. She
is the only woman president the
F.O.A.W. has had, and during her hold-
ing of the chair the dove has rested
thereon as securely as on Ararat. That
Flora has constructive rather than de-
structive instincts can be gauged by the
titles of the books of which she is part
author —A House Is Built and The Glass
House.
The Don Symingtons (she was Margot
Cowan) are in Sydney on furlough from
the Mandated Territory, where he is an
Inspector of Islands. The day after her
arrival Mrs. Symington was off in search
of a dentist and clothes, for in New
Guinea it is impossible to wear long
sleeves. Already her list for lunches and
bridge parties is almost three months
long, and that’s the length of the holiday.
Mrs. Symington, who accompanies her
husband on his tours of inspection, spends
many hours in making water-color
sketches of the little magic islands. There
is quite a brisk social life in Rabaul, and
it is almost impossible to get rooms in
the hotels without writing months ahead.
Deck-tennis, in spite of the heat, has
become a favorite game among the
women of the North.
This afternoon at Government House
Lieut.-Governor Philip Street will pin
Sister Parry’s new decoration into posi-
tion. Sister Parry is the organising secre-
tary of the N.S.W. centre of St. John
Ambulance Association, and the King
has conferred on her the insignia of Lady
Commander of the Order. For 16 years
she has busied herself with hospital and
St. John Ambulance work ; before that
she served with the A.I.F. in Egypt, act-
ing as matron on troopships between Aus-
tralia and Egypt. Sister Parry is the only
one in Australia so far to be honored
with this decoration. Raymond Sawyer
made the portrait.
Barrister John Gould, who has a bent
for the drama and a talent for stage pro-
duction, is now busy on a theme that will
take a large canvas. He has dramatised
Mallory’s story of the Holy Grail, and
is now casting his characters. Young
man of law Desmond O’Connor, who
was the herald in “The Hound of
Heaven” at the University last spring,
will be Galahad.
When thq Wahroonga Music Club
holds a salon all the North Shore’s best
cars turn their long noses to the road.
There was a more than usually swagger
turnout last week when Joan Hammond
lifted her voice in the club for the last
time before she sets out for Vienna.
Joan’s fund is now about the £7OO mark,
and £lOOO is the objective of her spon-
sors. She wore a long white crepe frock,
a nice contrast to the flame-colored frock
of Lute Drummond, who played her
accompaniments. After the music came
coffee and savories and much talk. Joan
Hammond has, let it be noted, a fine set
of strong, white teeth, and they play no
small part in a singer’s equipment. Her
grooming of these is quite an item in
her bedtime story: the eating of an
apple with skin on an invariable rule.
The real flavor of St. Vincent’s Leap
Year Fair was in the festival of song
and dance. This was carried out much
after the style in vogue when the Master-
singers were in full cry. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly ran this section, and was proud of
the amount of prize money she had to
distribute among young talent. The festi-
val was held in the neat, compact quad-
rangle of the nurses’ quarters. The audi-
ence sat in the balconies that surround
the courtyard and looked down on may-
poles and standards trailing gaudy rib-
bons, or looked up to the long lines of
red and yellow, green, black and purple
pennants that fluttered between the eye
and the evening star. The pennants car-
ried an advertising reminder from a city
store ; still, the burghers of Nuremberg
were probably not above mixing art and
business.
Tl _
ie ~ , 8 i i
grammes were preceded by a. colorful
piocession. Leading, paced Mrs. Fci-
rari Passmore in the flowing blue drap-
eries of the Middle Ages ; then came
stapdard-bearers and a company of youths
dressed in the yellow and violet blues of
the Papal Guard. On their heels came
coveys of small dove-like girls, fluttering
petals in the path of the Burgomeister
and his wife (the Bertie Kelly couple),
Her wine-colored period frock was let
in with widely-puffed under sleeves ol
lilac-pink satin, and her headdress was a
mixture of the finest batiste and lace.
Gold, purple and black were combined
in the burgomeister’s outfit. Among the
judges Yvonne Daunt was a charming
figure.
This is Surgeon McKelvey’s lady, who, in
Belgian costume, was one of the attrac-
lions of the fair. She sold ice-cream from
a tiny red cart drawn by an amiable and
massive Great Dane. All Sydney seemed
to collect on the lawns of St. Vincent’s,
and the beer-garden, where 40 Gretchens
were eager and willing to serve foaming
tankards, was quite a meeting-place. The
Bohemian glass stall, presided over by
Miss Kate Egan and a group of helpers
(among them the good-looking Mrs.
I.eishman), was almost sold out the first
day. But permanent waves, beauty boxes,
cocktail-mixers or milkjug covers were
keenly traded by the roses of England,
the colleens of Ireland, Uncle Sam and
at least one representative of every coun-
try in Europe. A Dorothy Welding
camera caught this glimpse.
Earl Beauchamp went off last week in
the Nieuw Holland ; by way of Java he
will reach Southampton. With him went
his private secretary, David Smythe.
Possibly no two have ever had such a
crowd to see them off. A procession
of farewellers started at 11 and was still
coming and going at the last bell. For
the final stirrup cup there was a sherry
bar in the earl’s cabin and one in David's.
As somebody remarked, there were no
crotchets in this composition, only a few
quavers between bars. Up till the very
last day the earl’s hospitality persisted,
and there was a dinner party, complete
with turtle soup, the night before he left.
One of his happiest speedings was given
by a group of his writing friends, Mrs.
Holman, Mrs. F. Aronson and Mrs. Mary
Irvine among them.
The party given by Mrs. Bassett and
daughter Beaupre to novelist Rosemary
Rees brought Sydney writers buzzing to
the Queen’s Club one night last week.
Rosemary, in blue, took up a graceful
and strategic position on a corner sofa,
and when she flung a white arm negli-
gently against its upholstery, except that
her position was vertical instead of hori-
zontal, there was quite a suggestion of
the Recamier. Beaupre, who helped her
mother entertain, got the best effect
from black laces tied with an old-rose
sash that trailed its ultimate word across
a moss-green carpet.
An ornamental person was Mrs. Nor-
man Rosskruge (that’s a Cornish name)
from Brisbane. Her dress was black,
sprayed with lily-of-the-valley ; her head
was blonde. Miss Valentine carried a
perfect profile above richly flowered
black taffetas. Ethel and Jeanie Rankin
were there, and tall, slim Peggy Graham,
who is doing scenario work for Gaumont-
British here, as she did for them in Lon-
don. There was a strong male chorus, in
it Mr. A. J. Crawford, who knows Abys-
sinia as Lord Beauchamp knows Bondi.
He can talk about it, too (they say), in
seven languages, but is willing to answer
questions in plain Australian.
The Government should buy at least
one of Isabel Mackenzie’s pictures for
the Tourist Department. Her paintings
of “The Basket Willows’’ and “The
Pool” in Centennial Park could popu-
larise that yast reserve of chequered light
and shade. Isabel’s show is a modest
affair of 17 paintings, the dearest of
which is eight guineas. When she comes
back from Europe she plans a much
larger one, which will include glimpses
of the Temple Gardens, the bit of Lon-
don that captures all Australians. Part
of Miss Mackenzie’s job, besides being
art instructor to the Education Depart-
ment, is to take classes of small school
children to ascertain the progress they
have made under her methods. In Lon-
don she intends to do some study with
a man famous for his art classes in the
schools of the East End.
More interest than principal is being
expended on art just now, otherwise H.
A. Hanke would have a chance to collect
the 200 guineas for his portrait of Unk
White disguised as “The Fencer.” This
has nothing to do with sliprails and
barbed wire, but is atmospheric with foils
and so on. Grammar School’s head-
master Dettman opened the show, which
is up a little winding stair in Rubery
Bennett’s gallery. His speech was gently
humorous, but, thank goodness! never
became whimsical. A young lady of 84
climbed gaily aloft to view the works of
the artist who, since his striking success
with the Archibald Prize, finds commis-
sions almost as thick as blackberries.
Unk White strode in trying to look un-
conscious of his picture on the wall.
Jimmy McDonald sauntered along from
the Art Gallery. John Peden was there;
so was Mrs. Howard Barron, thrilled
about the coming exhibition in London
of a panel of her husband’s pictures— all
Australian landscapes, now on their way
in the Barrabool.
On March 11 the Premier and Mrs.
Stevens will sail in the Orion for Eng-
land. An evening bag was given to Mrs.
Stevens by women members of the
U.A.P. ; it was presented by Mrs. Ken-
nard and Mrs. Sydney Snow (the Snows
go in the same ship), and farewells were
said to the accompaniment of flowers,
music and tea. The whole Stevens famih
is making the trip.
Peggy Royle, slim fairness in magnolia
satin, sought St. Mark’s one afternoon
last week. Lieutenant Robert B. Flem-
ing, of the Royal Tank Corps in India,
was waiting with the ring, and Canon
Howard Lea with the blessing. A little
pointed headdress of old-rose point was
the beginning of a surf of tulle tha:
foamed to the edge of the long train
Jean Kennedy, Pamela MacPhillamy anc
Norma Carpenter wore skyey-blue frock>
in the Renaissance manner, and blue halo
hats. Their flowers were delphiniums,
the bride’s, yellow roses and frangipann;
Mr. and Mrs. F. Arthur Royle did the
handsome thing by their only daugr-
ter at the reception in their home
at Darling Point. Lieutenant Fleming
(his home is in Hampshire, Englarc
and his bride sail in the Orontes for India
He is stationed in Peshawar.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
$2
/1
<3
5V
£
MW
m
-S
.V
ss
&
S
ill
n”
<S
nn
SS
<5
OS
s$
&
S
. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
"THE WENTWORTH"
0
a
*
&
o
o
*
r.
m
/
*
Melbourne
Chatter
There is no doubt about the inclina-
tion of the new season’s hats, for they
are quite tired of growing flat and earthy,
and when not worn as amusing little
pulled-about caps are tiptoeing upwards.
To Caulfield on Saturday Mrs. Harry
Rosenthal wore a black headpiece shaped
like a periwinkle and covered with a
film of stiff black veil. Mrs. Norman
Robinson’s little black hat was quiet no
longer after she had stabbed it with an
intoxicating quill in brilliant scarlet and
purple plumage. Mrs. Norman Carlyon’s
millinery looked as if it had stepped
straight out of “Vogue” ; it was navy
blue, and made a square frame for the
face, with sharp corners and a demure
little bow as an extra news note high
above the forehead.
Marjorie Foley thought out something
new by wearing a cream woollen coat
with a black frock and hat. Lois Lath-
lean was also in black; so was Marea
Lucas, who fastened her belt with
chromium initial clips. Irene Lucas was
in green, and Molly Atlee Hunt had a
snuff-brown coat to match her straw hat.
Mrs. John Roxburgh wore fur trimmings
upon her suit of rust-red sparrow’s-eye
tweed, and Mrs. Basil Fitchett chose a
little navy hat as accompaniment for her
long pale-grey cape.
People who were present at the open-
ing of the Ideal Homes Exhibition on
Friday had no idea of the chaos the
building was in two hours earlier. At
midday men were still mixing cement
and sand for a garden-ware area,
toilers with muddy boots were dashing
about with wheelbarrows, a Viking ship
and a bottle of liqueur were balanced on
top of an umbrella stand, girls were
arranging flowers and climbing ladders
to hang curtains and a lad with a paint-
brush stood by to touch up a pink-and-
cream stove after a gasman had scratched
it while hooking on the fuel pipes.
All the furniture is super-modern, but
steel appears very little ; everything is
of most beautiful woods. Corners have
almost disappeared, and the newest ideas
are based on the circle —thus a couple
of curves and one straight line and you
have a dressing-table, a sideboard or a
chair. It’s not fashionable any longer
for beds to have legs ; one bed had its
headpiece straight and solid, its foot also
solid but curved underneath like the side
of a canoe. Laundry coppers are painted
silver or pastel shades to match dream-
like kitchens, for the old black gas stove
is never spoken of in the best home
circles.
The duck-hunters have returned with
various tales about the opening of the
season. Bags varied in size, according to
the prowess of the hunters and the site
chosen. Some parties returned with only
one bird among them; others came
home with half a dozen to each man.
The campfires of old have in some cases
given way to the benzine stove, which
comes into action for cooking bacon and
tomatoes about 4 a.m. Then the campers
are stretching their limbs after a brief
cat-nap which follows on talk of snake-
bite and previous duck shoots and un-
complimentary remarks levelled at the
bane of the sport, the man who starts too
early and frightens the birds.
Lame jersey has burst full-blown into
the dress shows. It’s a clingy sort of
material dusted with metal; its surface
is rough, and looks as if it should have
a utility point in its favor, like standing
up to raindrops. The new violets are not
so difficult to wear as the old ; they are
warmer shades, and verge more towards
cyclamen or burgundy. At one show
Mrs. Leslie Benjamin appeared in a
lovely black chiffon dinner gown, its
fundamental principles being sunray
pleating on sleeves, corsage and skirt.
Bettine Fisken, whose savoir faire is a
result of the mannequin job she had
during her holiday in London, wore a
black afternoon dress with a high Chinese
collar and buttons prancing along the
lines of shirring right down the front of
the garment.
One winter coat might not be warm as
it looks; the belt, snugly buckled in
front, disappears underneath the swing
back so easily accessible to the four
winds and the forty thieves. A tweed
walking-suit took the air in quite a dif-
ferent line of country; its skirt was
scarlet and its loose half-length coat was
of navy, lined with navy-and-white-
spotted material to match the spotty
blouse and scarf.
The hooded evening wrap (which
appears to be a wisp ahead of the sari)
was shown in Red Riding Hood’s favor-
ite color; and for the tall woman, who
must have good square shoulders or she’ll
look like a bottle, there was a velvet
wrap with a sloping yoke and balloon-
ing sleeves above the elbow. Some of
the day-coats have huge fur lapels which
call themselves shawl collars.
Aileen Mclnerney, who wears her
golden hair in a soft roll on the nape of
her neck, is the only daughter of Mrs.
Tim Mclnerney. Miss Mclnerney has
recently returned to Melbourne after her
fifth journey to Europe, which terminated
with a few weeks in Adelaide. She was
born in South Africa, has been to China
and Japan, and has often stayed in Cey-
lon. While in England she spends little
time in London, for she has many friends
in the country. On her last visit to
Holland Miss Mclnerney made splendid
progress learning Dutch while stay-
ing with friends in Amsterdam and The
Hague. Broothorn made the portrait.
Both on and off the stage “Jill, Dar-
ling’s” first night was one of the most
spectacular premieres we have had in
Melbourne for many moons. In the
cocktail-bar scene there are shiny oil-
cloth curtains and tablecloths, scarlet
with huge white spot's ; the ballet dances
in two-sided waistcoats —the right black
with white spots, the left white with
black spots; Cecil Kellaway mixes
a drink (“rough-on-rats,” ammonia and
red pepper) and Leo Franklyn is pre-
cipitated on the stage after looking for
a petrol leak with a match. Dressed in
pale-lavender tulle with little floral
purses on their girdles, the see-saw ballet
took Frank Leighton and Diana Du Cane
for a swing high, swing low. Up in
Bunting Hall there is a wide curling stair-
case and a window with a view of rural
pastures, and in the garden scene green
bushes, striped awnings and chromium-
plated chairs.
One of the cleverest numbers in the
show happens in the garage, with every-
thing plain black and white ; a weird-
looking car is painted in the background
scenery, a motor-bike is in the fore-
ground and Lois Green and Bert
Matthews (who somehow manages to
look like Sam Atyeo’s drawings) are
doing a “silly symphony.” Lois wears
little lace caps with her cocktail bar-
maid’s frocks. Nellie Barnes looks
charming in her Hungarian costume with
its huge wired sleeves and in the white
chiffon Grecian gown in which she does
“Dancing with a Ghost,” and she cer-
tainly gets away with the calico nightie,
the property of the town gaol. Marie Le
Varre earns her loudest laugh when she
wriggles out of a beach-changing-tent
sort of garment to do the splits and a few
handsprings in a brief and frilly ballet
costume.
In the audience were Mrs. Fred Den-
nett, who wore black, with shoulder
wings lying low across her decolletage;
Mrs. McCall McCowan, also in black,
with gold spots upon her net frock and
a fur across her shoulders; Mrs. Jour-
neaux in silver foxes and her daughter
Betty in turquoise, with green and blue
hydrangea petals in her hair. Helen
Benjamin, wearing black net and her
sleek hair tucked behind her ears, accom-
panied her fiance, Dr. Leslie Kirsner.
Another engaged couple were Peter Tivey
and attractive Yvonne Cox, who chose
orchids to adorn her blue satin gown.
In the front row of the circle the Robert
Best couple were accompanied by
their bright-eyed, fair-headed daughter
Roberta. Sparkling above Mrs. David
Elder’s sky-blue dress was a twinkly tiara,
and something new in coiffure orna-
ments was Mrs. Arthur Burnett’s black
feather, shaped like a question mark in
the manner of Court plumes.
After 30 years living abroad it is with
mixed feelings that Mr. and Mrs. A. H.
Gascoyne have returned to live in Mel-
bourne. The break is not so difficult for
the two younger children, who are still
at school, but the three elder ones feel
that they have left all their friends
behind. Mrs. Gascoyne and her eldest
son are very musical, and will probably
be seen at every concert during the com-
ing winter.
The Gascoynes owned a lovely home
in Hampstead. Though only three miles
from Piccadilly, the house was built in
a large garden with its own tennis court
and conservatory. Their country cottage
was at a tiny place in Surrey called The
Sands, near the Smugglers’ Walk, along
which pilgrims of the Middle Ages
tramped from Winchester to Canterbury.
Mr. and Mrs. Gascoyne sold their homes
in England, but they brought out some
of their furniture, which is being
arranged in a house they have leased in
Lansell-road, Toorak. There is a billiard-
room, but, in keeping with the family’s
tastes, it will be used in future as a
music-room.
In the midst of congratulations upon
her book Muriel Heagney packed her
grips and went to Sydney to commence
her new job in the Queensland Tourist
Bureau of that city. Are Women Tak-
ing Men’s Jobs ? is a mass of statistics,
difficult reading for the general public,
but full of information about the status
of women as wage-earners. Complaints
that women should not be given jobs
when there are men unemployed is un-
fair, for both men and women must work
to live ; Miss Heagney says that equal,
rates irrespective of sex would be a better
policy, and she considers that instead of
squabbling over sex rights the country
should turn its attention to juvenile em-
ployment. Girls of 14 are exempted from
school and given industrial and other
jobs on a few shillings per week, and
many girls who have worked in shops
and offices for several years find them-
selves unwanted when they turn 21.
Here is an English visitor, Gladys
Sharp, who is an advocate of the all-
electrical home. Miss Sharp has had no
special training in electricity, but she is
•
interested in her father’s work (he is an
electrical engineer), possesses neat fingers
and is very handy with a fuse-wire and a
screwdriver when anything goes wrong
with the wiring in her own house. She
is acting hon. treasurer of the Women’s
Electrical Association of Great Britain.
A few of the 12,000 members have
studied electricity, but the majority are
housewives interested in home economics
who are taught simple facts about elec-
tricity and how to effect minor repairs.
When Miss Sharp left home a few
months ago there’ were 50 branches of
the W.E.S.; there are now 67. Activities
in Australia are increasing; an affiliated
society has been formed in Sydney, and
those interested are hopeful of working
up a similar movement in Brisbane.
Lincoln Ellsworth was delighted to
find the Ellsworth-Kenyon route already
marked on the relief map of the Antarctic
Continent in the Government Herbarium.
As a scientific man (he is a sur-
veyor and a geologist), Ellsworth fully
appreciated the model; to look at it is the
next best thing to going to the Pole. Mr.
Ellsworth is most unassuming and rather
reserved ; but quieter still is his com-
panion, J. K. Davis, Director of Naviga-
tion, who always listens but never talks,
and who has been to Antarctica more
often than anyone else in the world. The
commander of the Discovery, Lieut. Hill,
was also in the party which afterwards
took a short cut into Government House
to keep an engagement for tea.
That astute and jolly businessman Guy
McHenry has put his office latchkey in
his pocket and gone off deep-set fishing
with Zane Grey. Mr. McHenry is no
amateur fisherman, but possesses an ex-
cellent deep-sea kit, which he used on
Catalina Island. Later in the year he is
off to the U.S.A. to collect his wife, who
has been lingering in her home State
for nearly a year. Pride in her son’s
graduation took her across the Pacific.
Frank Serra came all the way from
Colombo to claim attractive Muff Can-
telo as his bride. The marriage cere-
mony was performed by the Rev. St.
Clair Anderson at the bride’s flat in St.
Kilda-road. W. S. Cantelo gave his
sister away, and afterwards Mrs. Loftus
Moran received friends at the Oriental.
The marriage garment, which was also
the going-away dress, was of turquoise
crepe, long and plainly cut, its only
elaboration being sleeve draperies and
long, pointed revers. Instead of a
bouquet, orchids were pinned to the
bride’s brown handbag.
We have had some distinguished visi-
tors lately. The Earl and Countess of
Strafford are partial to motoring, and
spent much of their time in the hills in
a vice-regal conveyance. Captain Gam-
age and his wife, who is daughter of Lord
and Lady Hirst, also had their first look
at Melbourne from Spencer-street station.
Mrs. Gamage belongs to the much-photo-
graphed nucleus of London society, and
her pet charity is the Infants’ Hospital,
an institution which caters for babies of
both rich and poor.
Another visitor is Mrs. Sam Mc-
Caughey. Her parents, Thomas Dunhill
and his lady, both Australians, came to
Melbourne for the B.M.A. meeting.
They have lived many years in London,
where medical-knight Thomas has
reached the top of the tree in his pro-
fession. Mrs. McCaughey was interested
to find a picture of her daughter Unity
which has been an exhibit for 19 years
in one of Melbourne’s leading photo-
graphic studios. In the picture Unity, as
a very small trainbearer, stands beside
Mrs. Sidney Dalrymple in her bridal
gown.
Lord Baden Powell, who turned 79
last Saturday, refuses to be called old.
B.P. never gives autographs ; he reasons
that autograph-collecting shows a low
intelligence; people get the urge only
when they see others with books,
fountain-pens and a feverish light in their
eyes. He contributed to an English maga-
zine, the “Scout,” a drawing of a tomb-
stone, underneath which he wrote “Dedi-
cated to that infernal pest the autograph-
hunter. Finally squashed by the Chief
Scout, 1935. Only cissy Scouts collect
autographs.—B.P.”
One of our very few hansoms was
burnt last week at Sandringham. It was
44 years old. With it went a four-
wheeled cab and the driver’s good pal,
a 28-year-old mare. The owner, Steven
Charles Holman, is a Cobb and Co.
veteran, 89, and he finished his week of
bad luck by breaking his leg. He’s in
the Alfred, but has regretfully come to
the decision that even if the limb mends
he is too old to drive any more.
“Scotch” mustered 1000 boys for the
official opening of the Monash Memorial
Gates, which front the college grounds.
Major-General Bruche, an old boy, made
the ceremonial speech, and David Mon-
ash Bennett, the 11-year-old grandson of
John Monash, was the first person to
pass through the gates after the opening.
Young David is head boy of the junior
school.


Stuart Crystal, each piece an ex-
ample of exquisite design produced
by a master craftsman, cannot fail to
add charm and dignity to your home.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. 'Wahlers & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Stuart
Qx
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1339 of 1935.
BETWEEN KEITH HARVEY MacKENZIE
Petitioner
LYRLINE MAY MacKENZIE Re-
spondent
And ERICK ALBERT WOODWARD
Co-respondent.
TO LYRLINE MAY MacKENZIE formerly
of Rouen Road Rainworth Brisbane in
the State of Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KEITH
HARVEY MacKENZIE has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a divorce on the grounds of
bigamy with adultery with the said ERICK
ALBERT WOODWARD ami of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards AND T AKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of you not doing so within the time
limited without obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined youi absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of February, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1..5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HUGH WILLIAM SELWYN JERMYN,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Manufacturers’
House, 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 110 of 1936.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN MARIE SMITH
Petitioner
And JOSEPH SMITH Respondent.
TO JOSEPH SMITH late of Broken Hill
Miner. .. ~
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
MARIE SMITH has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Thirteenth
day of May One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. _ ,
DATED this Seventeenth day of February,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
CECIL F. HURLEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1485 of 1935.
lETWEEN ALLEN LAWRENCE TOWNS-
AncP FLORENCE DOT TOWNSEND
AirF°OSWALD BINCENT TOWNSEND
Co-respondent. , t
O FLORENCE DOT TOWNSEND late of
Bathurst. T
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALLEN LAW-
RENCE TOWNSEND has commenced a suit
gainst you in this Honorable Court and is
pplying for a dissolution of marriage on the
rounds of adultery with OSWALD BINCENT
OWNSEND who is herein added as a co-
espondent AND TAKE NOTICE that you
re required to enter an appearance to the
aid suit at the proper office of this Honor-
ble Court on or before the Eighteenth day ot
day One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
ix and in the event of your not doing so
vithin the time limited or obtaining further
ime the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
ie heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition nIM
lerein may be had on application to the under-
igned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of February,
)ne thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
H. R. HUNT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
• Martin Place, Sydney. _
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1788 of 1935.
lETWEEN ABRAHAM CRUM Petitioner
And ELSIE MAY CRUM Respondent
O ELSIE MAY CRUM late of No. W
Angel Street-Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ABRAHAM
'RUM has commenced a suit against you in
his Honorable Court and is applying for a
lissolution of marriage on the ground of your
wilful desertion of him for three years and
ipwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
equired to enter an appearance to the saw
uit at the proper office of this Honorable
3ourt on or before the 13th day of May 19Jt>
md in the event of your not doing so within
he time limited or obtaining further time the
> etitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
md determined your absence notwithstanding-
K copy of the petition filed herein may be had
jn application to the undersigned free ot
:harge. lol<
DATED this 17th day of February, a.d 1930.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
KEITH W. GUNN, Solicitor for the Peti-
:ioner, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
There was a goodly rally of punters
at the races. The interval had given gar-
deners a chance, and lawns and flower-
beds looked their best. Mrs. Lucius
Manning vied with the flora in the design
on her black silk crepes, Josephine
Goyders’s flowers were hand-embroidered
on daffodil voile and Dorothy Balston’s
georgette blooms were in soft pink and
blue. White buds sprouted on Mrs. Tom
Boddington’s sherry marocains. Elsie
Forrest tied a russet scarf at the neck of
her black-and-white pin-striped silks, and
Esmc Oakley’s lily-white crepes had a
dash of scarlet.
St. Mary’s, Dardanup, was massed with
roses and zinnias when Bishop Wilson,
of Bunbury, tied the knot tethering Allan
Finlayson and Helen Venn. The bride’s
white satin, high-necked, long-sleeved
and lengthily trained, shimmered under a
Brussels-lace veil held in place by a
coronet of frangipanni. Mrs. Jack Money
and Grace Thiel attended in twin frocks
of maize phantom crepe, with flowing
capes leashed to gold clasps at the throat.
Mrs. Frank Venn, with a cluster of
flowers at the shoulder of her Patou-pink
matt crepes, presided over the aftermath
at Dardanup Park, the home of the Venn
family.
Terry Pidgcon and Hazel Sweeting
were made one at St. Mary’s, West
Perth, with Canon Parry to forge the
link. Hazel’s off-white crepe lorraine,
with its Grecian cut, front shirrings and
ground-length hem, was topped with a
transparent brown picture hat. Sally
Dempster swung a cape over her gold
crepe ’maid’s frock, and finished the neck
with flowers which matched her sheaf
of Gloire de Dijon roses and gold leaves.
All over the State friends mourn the
death of Mrs. Muriel Chase, a woman
beloved for her active sympathy with
the sick and suffering. She belonged to
one of the oldest families in the State —
her great-great-grandmother was the wife
of Marshall Clifton, founder of the
settlement at Australind. Mrs. Chase
was for long a member of the literary
staff of the “West Australian.” The
Silver Chain D.N.A. and the Bush Nurs-
ing Society had her help as councillor,
and with the late Dr. Gertrude Mead
and Mrs. Drew, Mrs. Chase was respon-
sible for the founding of cottage homes
for the aged.
The Rep. Soc. set the Martinez-Sierra
problem “Take Two from One” to appre-
ciative audiences for a four-night season.
Mrs. Maxwell was producer, Mary Ward
and Margaret Giles were the dynamic
and tearful wives, and Tom Flintoff was
the bigamist husband.
Mrs. Earle Page had a busy day while
the Narkunda berthed at Fremantle on
its way to England. In the morning her
brown-and-white figured silks were set
amid bowls of shaded dahlias at the
Council Chambers, where Mable Teather,
in a smart magpie outfit, served tea. For
luncheon the visitor was the guest of
Mrs. J. S. Teasdale, wife of the president
of the P.P.A., whose schooner-blue
crepes were backgrounded with yet more
dahlias at the Adelphi. After coffee the
luncheoners were motored to Belhus, the
Barrett-Lennards’ vineyard in Upper
Swan.
Mrs. Cunninghame-Strettle, who is
staying in Perth en route to Europe, has
been guest of honor at a brace of shivoos,
Mrs. Redvers Bate put on an afternoon-
tea at the Adelphi, and Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon James gave a crabbing party,
which entailed a cruise on the river and
the mastication of the crabs on the illu-
minated lawns of their home at Pepper-
mint Grove.
Mabel Teather, Lord Mayor Poynton’S
niece, and Lance Barrett, son of Mr. and
Mrs. A. O. Barrett, of Melbourne,
announce their engagement.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The weather was ideal for the picnic
race-meeting at Clare, and frocking was
smart. Mrs. Pat Colley topped black-
and white crepe de Chine, collared and
cuffed in white pique, with a small white
hat. Mrs. Stanley Hawker wore a navy
coat and hat with a white linen suit.
Mrs. F. A. Tennant’s black-and-white
figured georgette had scarlet accessories,
and Mrs. Dudley Angas’s powder-blue
pique linen suit went with a hat of white
straw.
To have four warships in harbor and
no wild rush of festivities is a novel
experience, but owing to Court mourn-
ing public entertainment of the sailors
was taboo. There were, however, several
cheery little private parties, which the
officers possibly found far more enjoy-
able than more formal occasions.
A social event was the marriage of the
E. W. Holdens’ younger daughter Nancy
to Frank Buttfield. St. John’s Church,
Halifax-street, was decorated with
hydrangea, Easter lilies and gladioli, all
pink, mixed with a profusion of silver
honesty. Mr. and Mrs. Holden after-
wards received several hundred guests at
their home, Kent Town. The bride wore
a well-cut gown of magnolia slipper
satin merging into a train. The full, wide
sleeves had gathers extending to the
back. The bridal veil of tulle was held
in place by a narrow band of orange-
buds. Three little bridesmaids, Kathleen
Haste, Mignon Holden and Judith
Taylor, were in dainty Empire frocks of
maize georgette, with bands of the same
tone round their heads.
After an absence of 18 months, Mrs.
E. V. Riceman returned in the Ulysses.
Daughter Barbara arranged a morning-
tea to welcome her mother, and Mes-
dames Napier Birks, Fowler-Browns-
worth, Melville Birks and other relatives
and friends were present.
Whitmore B. Carr, of Mount Lofty,
married Mrs. M. M. Leitch, widow of
Dr. Oliver Leitch, at the Church of
Epiphany, Crafters. The newly-weds are
off to England in the Otranto.
A dinner at the Exchange Hotel was
arranged by the bachelors of the Waite
Agricultural Research Institute as a
farewell to Cyril Gurney, who is to go
to a missionary college in Persia.
Mrs. Leslie Maiden, of Toorak, gave a
morning-tea at the South Australian Hotel
on the morning of Mrs. Rex Matters’s
departure for England to enable the
traveller’s numerous friends to wish her
bon voyage.
Madame Delmar Hall, of the Elder
Con., has received a letter from com-
poser Roger Quilter, in London, praising
the voice and intelligence of Margaret
Pirie. The Weigall lady took Miss Pirie
to sing to Princess Helen and Princess
Marie Louise, who were much impressed
with her singing, and suggested she
should study opera with Maggie Teyte,
but Margaret has decided in favor of the
concert platform.
A civic reception was given to Dr.
David Poling, world-president of Chris-
tian Endeavor, and Mrs. Poling in the
reception-room of the Lady Mayoress,
where crimson gladioli, dahlias and del-
phiniums gave an air of gaiety. The
' Mayoress (Mrs. Dunstan) was gowned
in a grey chiffon flowered in black, and
she wore a becoming hat of black
straw. Mrs. Poling chose a navy-and-
pale-blue figured silk, worn with a navy
wool georgette coat three-quarter length,
a small navy coarse-straw hat banded
with white and a cowl scarf of powder-
blue chiffon.
TASMANIA.
A large committee, with Naomi Ken-
nedy at the secretarial helm, ran a dance
at the Continental before the navy de-
parted from our waters. Blue agapan-
thus and vivid, red-hot pokers decked the
ballroom, and the supper-tables had a
pink scheme. There was a good sprink-
ling of mainland and country visitors in
the throng.
One of the brightest parties this
summer was that given by the K. Brod-
ribbs (Fingal), who came to town to
launch Mrs. Brodribb’s eldest daughter
Anne Page. About 250 guests rolled up
to the Continental, the young for danc-
ing, the not-so-young for bridge. Mrs.
Brodribb wore her favorite peach tones,
and Anne, who has a style of her own,
was in a charming frock of frilly white
tulle over silver lame, with a pale-pink,
apple-blossom shoulder spray. Officers
from the warships in port added to the
supply of partners for the girls.
The ninety-eighth Hobart regatta had
everything in its favor, and was voted
the most successful ever. The Domain
was black with onlookers, and the river
white with sail and alive with craft all
day. J. G. Turner, president of the
Regatta Association for a generation, was
able to attend in spite of recent illness.
Garden-lovers lamented that the post-
ponement of the flower show practically
spoilt the exhibits of gladioli, but the City
Hall looked very fine and colorful, and
the whole turnout was surprising, con-
sidering the dry season we’ve had. Some
lovely blooms were shown from the
Ouse and from Dover, where Mrs. Jack-
son’s champion bloom came from.
The Ashbolt lady revived what was a
favorite mode of entertaining a genera-
tion ago by hiring the motor-launch
Arcadia and giving a river picnic, with
Barbara Atkins and Anne Page, two of
this season’s debs., as guests of honor.
The fine weather this summer has made
harbor jaunts very popular.
No mishap marred the aerial pageant
at Western Junction aerodrome, where
about 5000 people were kept interested.
President Dr. J. Ramsay and Mrs. Ram-
say fed a throng at tea in the hangar,
which was dolled up with flags and bowls
of flowers. The folk of the northern and
western districts rolled up in force. In
the evening the Aero Club gave a dinner
at the Brisbane, after which trophies were
presented. A gala day wound up with
a dance at the Masonic Hall.
Mrs. Toby Browne and Miss Cowan,
of the C.W.A.. had a good audience for
their demonstration of home weaving of
wool at Bursary House, Hobart. Mrs.
Browne said that the coat and skirt she
was wearing cost only 12s. fid. for
material, and that a quilt for a single bed
could be made for ss. fid. The Lady
Mayoress welcomed the visitors at morn-
ing tea in the Town Hall.
A branch of the C.W.A., the first in
the .Speck, was formed in Launceston
recently. Lady Clark was in the chair.
To raise the wind for St. John's Hos-
pital three original one-act plays were
staged at Hobart Town Hall before a
good house. Most spectacular was
"‘Evening Cicada,” a Japanese fantasy,
by Linus Donelly, provided with settings
and costumes by Amy Kingston and
Phyllis Pitman. “The Pageant,” by Ada
Lane, was an amusing little comedy, and
“Mist,” a drama with some thrills in it,
by Dorothy Bowden, gave still further
variety.
Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre hrad an after-
noon party at her home, Launceston, so
that her friends might meet her mother,
Edgeworth David’s lady, who is visiting
her. The occasion served also as a wel-
come-home to Mrs. Tim Hogg, just re-
turned with her husband from Europe.
Dr. Pearson leaves no stone unturned
to- work up interest in the Hobart
Museum. The latest attractive exhibit
is one of women’s and children’s cos-
tumes of the fifties, sixties and seventies
of last century, and two at least of a
century earlier. The wheel has come
round again in one or two details of
women’s attire, but the children’s clothes
show a vast change, especially boys’ suits.
G. B. Lancaster, otherwise Edith Lyttle-
ton, authoress of Pageant and many
other novels, is staying with her aunt.
Mrs. Mel Stackhouse, Launceston.


ķ
siSc
ĸ
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
5 Y D N E Y
Representatives: MePHERSONS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth —r E5.C.A., Brisbane’
10-tr-ZQuif*
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Runs .seven-valve Radio
Elec Iron for l'su/eek.
k
Above is extract of a letter from
an "R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
"too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE. —Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE »N QUEENSLAND BY 4
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY. LTD
VALLE
ILL
Health
GOES
the moment
Intestines
are Purified
k
Safe Antacid Re-
gulating Tonic for Women, the Aged ana
all with Delicate but Constipated Systems.
Clogged, caked intestines breed germs, run
down health, ruin the skin. Take Intestone,
clean the intestines properly, and see the
difference! NEW Vital Energy, Clearer Skin
and Eyes; No Aches, Pains or Ugly Excess
Fat. Intestone is a new kind of Mineral
Salts, including Yeast, Rhubarb, Jumper, etc.
It ends Constipation. And it is a tonic I In-
testone can make you feel younger by 10
years, or more! Especially good for those in
the “Dangerous Forties,” and Safe Help for
old people. TRY IT. Good Chemists sell In-
testone at 2/9, large bottles. If any difficulty,
order (adding 4d. if by post) from the Owl
Pharmacy, Martin Place, Sydney.
Intestone
Makes You Fee/ Fit FASTER!
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Brisbane’s latest war is over ,
the habit of building on park lands.
Having filled most of George-street with
Government buildings and started to
spend a half-million or so on skyscrapers
to hold more Government employees in
Anzac-square, the authorities now plan
to take a bit of Wickham and Observa-
tory Park, the only real lung near the
heart of the city, to build a public lib-
rary, art gallery and a few odds and ends
on. Why these can’t be built on the
river bank, where the present library
stands, nobody except the Government
knows.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: February 13 was the
fortieth anniversary of the Brisbane River
tragedy in which the 40-ton steamer
Pearl, Captain Chard, was swept by the
flooded stream against the anchor chains
of the Q.G.S. Lucinda, and 25 lives were
lost in the resulting capsize. Flood rains
in the upper river had brought down a
jamb of logs and ddbris against the Vic-
toria Bridge, and traffic across it was
stopped. Three small steamers, the
Pearl, Alice and Young Mat, were char-
tered to take passengers to and from
the South Brisbane side. The accident
happened early in the afternoon, and
arose through the stern of the Normanby
swinging downstream and forcing the
Pearl on to the Lucinda’s chains. Most
of those drowned were trapped under
the deck-awning, and some plucky
rescues were made by a present-day
Brisbane barrister.
* * * *
“Gain”: Youngsters in the N.Q. sugar
districts would be sorry to see pests
wiped out. They make too much money
out of them. During last month 8 tons
scwt. of cane-beetles and 9781 b. of
grubs were collected in the Mackay dis-
trict, and the local cane-pest board paid
out £llO6 9s. lid. in rewards.
* * * *►
“Trebor”: Maleny (S.Q.) is taking a
stand against the Transport Strangula-
tion Board. A company is being
formed to acquire an aerodrome and an
aeroplane to supply regular goods and
passenger service between Maleny and
Brisbane —it’s less than half an hour’s
journey by air. The chairman of the
S.B. admits that the scheme is beyond
his jurisdiction, but he is stunned that
the Malenyites won’t take advantage of
his co-ordinated service, by which local
carriers are forced off the road.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: The medical census of
bush children in far-western Queensland
about to be initiated by the Methodist
Inland Mission, with the co-operation of
the 8.M.A., is a valuable national work.
Three travelling missionaries, each one a
trained ambulance officer, with a car
fitted for ambulance work, will begin
the work west of a line from Windorah
to Croydon (N.Q.). One headquarters is
at Boulia (s.-w. Q.), the second at Clon-
curry (Central West) and the third at
Camooweal (n.-w.). A fourth, with
quarters at Mt. Isa, will attend to the
outlying mining and railway settlements
about there. Ages, heights, weights,
general development and health' history
of every child in the far-out areas will be
collected for consideration by a special
committee of the B.M.A. Doctors will
then be sent round with the missionaries
to attend to children in need of medical
care.
* * * *
“Lawyer Bill”: M. P. Durack (B'.
5/2/’36) and his brother Jack had prom-
ising scholastic careers cut short when
their father, a Cooper’s Creek grazier,
lost his money in a Brisbane company
smash. He and his boys gathered a mob
of cattle which they overlanded to East
Kimberley (W.A.), being 2{ years on the
road, and finally settling at Argyle, now
their head station. Frank Connor, once
a barman at Larry Foley’s White Horse
pub and boxing saloon in George-street,
Sydney, and afterwards a Westralian
M.L.A., had opened a store in Wynd-
ham. He and the Duracks joined forces
and founded Connor, Doherty and
Durack, whose lands extend almost un-
broken from Wyndham (W.A.) to the
Victoria River (N.T.), across an airline
of about 220 miles.
"Hullo, Jacky. Looks as if you've had a ding-dong go."
“ Don't know 'boul ding, boss. Plenty dong."
“Bardolph”: It takes a woman to be
sarcastic. In Queensland, where they
have 40 different machines for taxing the
graziers, the Longreach District Improve-
ment Board sent its second levy assess-
ment for the year to Mrs. Cowen, of
Deuce Downs. With her cheque came
a letter in which she asked for a re-
ceipt, “as it is well to have a record
of how valuable dead animals can be to
institutions and what a liability they can
be to their owners.” The chairman of
the board remarked feebly that the
“second levy during the year had been
necessary owing to the heavy expendi-
ture incurred in destroying burr”—of
course, largely on stock routes and public
lands on which there are no taxpayers to
assess.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The idea of a road from the
eastern N. Queensland coast, which is
being canvassed by N. Queensland muni-
cipalities, has its points, but a better
idea would be an all-weather road from
N. S. Wales through western Queens-
land to the Roper. It would need to be
a different kind of road from most which
are built here. India can teach us a lot
about these things. The Grand Trunk
is almost impregnable to ordinary mon-
soon weather. It is raised several feet
above the surrounding surface, with
plenty of water getaways. Trees shelter
it from the sun on plains barer than
those of the brigalow country. There
are wells at short intervals. From a
tourist point of view, there is nothing
more fascinating than the Queensland
west country, and a straight track could
be built through it for a good many hun-
dreds of miles, making it possible for the
southern tourist to cross the N.T. border
in a little over a week’s steady driving.
But while the menace of black soil re-
mains, touring in certain seasons is a
gamble.
**Australia Jane’s” Budget
One of the big city stores exhibited
various undergarments of the “Gay
’Nineties” alongside slinky trifles of satin,
silk and lace. The mob of women out-
side spread right across the pavement,
and one charming matron, holding up
a small daughter the better to see the
atrocities, was heard murmuring “Look,
darling. Mummy used to wear things
like that.”
At St. Mary’s Basilica, Sydney, on
March 17, the marriage of Madge John-
son, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Johnson, Coorparoo, to Lachlan Buggy,
of Thirroul (N.S.W.), will take place.
Three hostesses, Mesdames R. H.
Verry, D. E. Evans and J. H. Jones, com-
bined to give a swell farewell tea-party
to Mrs. R. C. Stephens, off to Honolulu.
There were bridge and afternoon-tea, set
on a table gay with golden glow and
green tulle.
Dorothy Drane, a popular sister of the
Inky Way, is off to Sydney shortly to
start a new job, and the women journal-
ists are arranging a farewell tea for her.
Tea-drinkings seem to be the most popu-
lar form of amusement lately. Jean
Harmsworth, newly-appointed director of
Paddington Playground, has been the
reason for a few of them.
Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Huxtable are back
from Japan. Mrs. Huxtable spent some
weeks in Shanghai with her uncle, Dr.
O’Hara, while her husband tripped to
Harbin. They saw the New Year cele-
brations in Tokio. They have settled
down again in their Southport home.
Three Queensland girls, Nell Campbell,
Maud Stephens (Beaudesert) and Peggy
Saunders (Ipswich), are packing the suit-
cases for a trip abroad. Mrs. G. Boul-
ton, Nell’s sister, gave the first of the
usual round of parties in their honor.
The Governor and Lady Wilson are
spending a few days at Southport, and
Alderman and Mrs. Proud, the local
Mayor and Mayoress, poured tea for
them in the Mayor’s room at the new
Town Hall.
Isabel Margaret Halliday, daughter of
the Edward Hallidays, Killara (N.S.W.),
has accepted the usual diamond circlet
from Graham Jasper Mylne, eldest son
of Mr. and Mrs. Graham Mylne, of
Lota House, Manly (Q.). The lass is
staying with her prospective in-laws at
the moment.
Mrs. Dan Wienholt has been appointed
special representative of the New Settlers’
League, to meet boats and talk to in-
fluential visitors about immigration. Mrs.
Wienholt was one of the six matrons
appointed by the British and Common-
wealth Governments to travel overseas
and chaperon young women coming
out to Australia. Three parties travelled
out under her wing, and while waiting
for homeward-bound boats she did a
lot of lecturing in the Cold Country.
Men who spend all the long warm
Saturday afternoons publicly attempting
to kiss Kitty are not nervous about leap
year, at least not in East Brisbane,
where the bowling club started its
year’s entertaining with a leap year
dance in its pavilion. President and
Mrs. E. Taylor were host and hostess.
The C.D.A. sewing circle made over
1250 garments last year, and provided 70
layettes for the wives of relief workers.
Bed jackets for Dunwich and Diaman-
tina Hospital also were made. A good
record of work.
Dorothea Brice, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Brice, Canowindra (N.S.W.),
and Walter Fife Nixon Smith were mar-
ried in St. Andrew’s Church, 5.8., on
February 21. The ’groom is the young-
est son of the late J. Nixon Smith and
Mrs. Nixon Smith, of Willington, South
Brisbane. This is the home Mrs. Nixon
Smith lived in as a little girl, when her
parents, Captain and Mrs. McDonnell,
first started the tradition of hospitality
that their descendants keep alive to-day.
Mrs. J. Ven Cox, the bridegroom’s sister,
was matron of honor.
Five years in an English Baptist Mis-
sion in East Bengal surely entitles Hope
Andress to long furlough, which she is
spending in Queensland with her clergy-
man father and sister at Nanango. The
lady controls a school attended by 150
children, the majority of whom are
Hindus.


mm
\>
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Seta from £3/10/«
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO
NEWS
JUNIOR UNIVERSAL PUBLIC-ADDRESS
SYSTEM.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
A PUBLIC-ADDRESS amplifier can be pul to innumerable
uses, particularly so if it is of the universal type, capable of
being operated from a portable storage battery or, alternatively,
from the nearest 240-volt A.C. power point. To design such
an amplifier calls for restriction to limits imposed by the storage
battery. By the use of suitable valves, including the 6A6 Class-
B output type, ample audio power is obtained for average pur-
poses, and an amplifier of this type is particularly suitable for
use in country districts.
Occasionally requests have reached the
writer for particulars of small public-
address amplifiers, stressing the need for
portability and the desirability ot being
able to operate independently of mum-
cipal power supplies. In some country
showgrounds, for instance, access cannot
always be had to 240-volt A.C. supply,
many towns being equipped with D.C.
In such case the amplifier must be de-
signed for use with the particular D.C.
supply, and the application is limited to
use within the confines of that supply.
It is not possible in such circumstances
Fig. 1. —The circuit of the amplifier, showing all component valves.
to design the amplifier universally, except-
ing for use with either 240-volt A.C. or
D.C. mains. The use of a battery for
the initial power is ruled out. Tackling
the question from a different angle, it is
easy, by using suitable valves, to design
an amplifier which will, without any
alteration other than the substitution of
one power unit for another, go into
action from a 6-volt accumulator or a
40-volt A.C. supply. This provides flexi-
bility enough, and the municipal D.C.
supply can be forgotten, except as a
means of charging an accumulator.
The amplifier illustrated and described
here was designed by the writer for
military purposes, and is now being used
by the Ist Division Cavalry Signals of
the militia at Moore Park, Sydney. The
question of portability arose owing to
the desirability of being able to take the
complete outfit into the field during
exercises or camps, where power supply
lines are not likely to be handy. If at
any time a 240-volt A.C. power point
is near by, the 6-volt power unit can be
changed for the 240-volt A.C. unit in a
few seconds.
Fig. 2. —The amplifier, complete with power units and
speakers.
Amplifier Requirements,
Besides the necessity for making this
equipment universal in the manner
stated it had at the same tim to be
able of deliveri e h audio
1 , , ® ° ,
power *° reach across a crowded parade
S round - Nothing less than 10 watts
wou ld suffice, and above this rating It
becomes impracticable to go, for the
reason that a 6-volt accumulator may
have to provide the sole means of power,
A bigger amplifier with greater output
could easily be constructed on similar
lines, but if the running period is likely
to be lengthy this would mean the use in
parallel of a number of heavy amperage
accumulators. For intermittent opera-
tion from a single 100 ampere-hour
accumulator, the amplifier outlined,
with a genemotor high-tension unit,
takes a maximum load of about 11
amperes, and thus is not excessively
greedy. Four hours’ continuous use is
the most it is likely to get at any time,
and a heavy-capacity 6-volt battery in
good condition will easily stand that.
In addition to speech requirements,
musical reproduction of recordings is
desirable for certain purposes, so that
provision is made for input from a
pickup, change-over from speech being
worked by switching. Mixing is not
incorporated, but the reader interested
in the amplifier can easily adapt this if
necessary. The input for the pickup can
also be used for input from a radio
source if needed.
Circuit Arrangement.
Every valve added in the interest of
more gain means a heavier load on the
accumulator;
therefore it is
essential to make
the most of the
least number of
valves. For t u-
nately this can be
done with many
modern types of
valves, and the
arrangement
finally arrived at
is economical,
yet sacrifices no-
thing in input
and output gain.
The first valve is a 77 or 6C6 used as a
pentode for high gain. This is resistance-
coupled to a type 89, used as a triode, to
serve as a Class-B driver to the 6A6. The
89 can be used with advantage as a pen-
tode if a somewhat higher impedance
Fig.
primary winding is incorporated in the
Class-B driver transformer. In triode
operation it suits any of the usual small
Class-B driver transformers on the
market. Both the driver and output
transformers in this
amplifier are of
Gladstone manufac-
ture (Noyes Bros.,
Sydney, Ltd.). The
microphone trans-
former must, of
course, be suitable
for the particular
type of microphone
employed. A sensi-
tive carbon button
microphone of the
Neophone inset type
is desirable, a very
good version of this
being the Home
Broadcaster micro-
phone marketed two
years ago in Sydney
by the B.G.E. Co.
A relatively insensi-
ti v e microphone
would call for pre-
amplification, and would thus introduce
unnecessary complication.
Reference to the circuit diagram will
show that all values are indicated, and
that a tone control is included in the
control grid circuit of the 89 driver
valve. The volume control is at the
input to the control grid of the 77. The
tone control is very effective, and, while
it is not essential for speech work alone,
it is a decided advantage in musical
Fig. 4.
reproduction. Note that across the
secondary of the driver transformer are
two 10,000-ohm resistors from outsides
to “earth.” These help to keep down
parasitics and slight distortion, often
present in Class-B amplifiers. Across
the primary of the output transformer
are connected in series a .Olmfd. mica
condenser and a 10,000-ohm resistor,
These comprise a filter for the same
purpose, and the effect of disconnecting
these ts very noticeable.
The output transformer was specially
made by Gladstone for incorporation
in the amplifier itself. The two second-
aries provide outlets for two Amplion
01 permagnetic speakers housed in baffle
boxes, with small horns and fed by 30ft.
of twin flex to each speaker. The micro-
phone switching system is the simple
plug and jack method, and ■ as the
amplifier is built into a swing-door
cabinet, the plug must be removed
before the doors can be fastened, thus
precluding the chance of accidentally
leaving the mic. battery “on.” A four-
pin plug and socket at the base of the
amplifier panel provide connection for
A and B power.
Power Units.
Circuit diagrams are illustrated. The
240-volt A.C. unit uses a Westinghouse
HT9 dry rectifier. The writer cannot
speak too highly of these units. They
are easily filtered, giving a humless D.C.
supply with ease, and they will stand up
to continuous use for many years with-
out attention. The Westinghouse recti-
fier is also a distinct advantage where
the amplifier and accessories are likely
to suffer rough usage, as in military
work. There is no rectifier valve to drop
out of a socket and smash at a critical
time. The power transformer is specially
constructed, with a 250-volt secondary
rated at 200 ma. A 6.3-volt three-ampere
heater winding looks after the valve-
heaters, and switching is provided for
heaters first, and H.T. in correct time.
As this is a voltage-doubling rectifier cir-
cuit, two bridge condensers are used.
These must not be electrolytics. They
are Chanex 4mfd. 500-volt working
types. After this the filtering is purely
conventional, with a 30-hy. choke and
a twin Ducon Bmfd. dry electrolytic con-
denser unit. The four leads for heaters
and H.T. are taken to a four-pin plug
to correspond with the socket on the
amplifier panel.
The six-volt D.C. unit is simplicity
itself, and is made possible by the use
of one of those excellent Carter gene-
motors, type 351, plus H.T. filter. This
is wired up as in the diagram, and gives
exactly the same power delivery as the
A.C. unit. There is no trace of commu-
tator ripple from the little generator with
the H.T. filter. The generator, of course,
must not be used without a filter for such
a purpose as audio amplification. Power
units are in separate boxes, with- L.T.
and H.T. tumbler-type switches, painted
green for L.T. and red for H.T.
General Points.
The amplifier was built on a vertical
brass panel, with brass shelf to carry
valves and minor components. All con-
trols are accessible from the front of
the panel. All grid leads are carefully
screened in copper braid and earthed, and
decoupling is used in the plate circuits
of the input and driver valves. The mica
condenser between these valves (.02mfd.l
must be a good one. Leakage here
would result in poor quality and loss of
ga j n The pickup used for musical
recordings is an Audak type (Amplion.
Ltd.), attached to a portable turntable,
spring-driven. It is obvious that where
such an amplifier is t 0 be considered for


GREATER
ECONOMY IN
OPERATION
WITH
TYPE IC4
TYPE ID4
VALVES
ĸ
Radiol ron
1C4....A new high gain non-micro-
phonic super-control radio frequency
pentode.
ID4. . . .A power output pentode of
overall higher efficiency than any
equivalent.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Comtany Limited
A.C. use alone, the 2.5-volt valve equiva-
lents can be employed. The valves would
be, in this case, 57, 59 and 53, but the
6.3-volt types are in any case slightly
more efficient, and certainly more econo-
mical. This amplifier makes an excel-
lent minor public-address system, and
should fill the bill for the many readers
who have asked for such information.
D. B. Knock,
Lt. 1 Div. Cav. Sigs.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been again very
good, with 19 metres the best. It has
been difficult to separate stations in
this band on good evenings. No. 1
8.8. C. transmission from GSF has been
still best, and not until late at night
has the 31-metre-band station GSB been
above the noise level.
GSE, 25.28 m., has been at great
strength from opening at midnight, with
GSF nearly as strong. Some very attrac-
tive programmes have been heard from
GSE. 2RO has also had some fine
music, and for those who like opera the
transmissions from La Scala Opera
House were excellent.
The new German station near GSE
has been good before 6 p.m., but the
other transmission was weak until after
9.30 p.m. These stations were being
used for descriptions of the Olympic
Games.
RNE on 25 metres (Wed. and Sunday)
showed improvement, and was fair at
9 p.m. The curtailment of talks is wel-
come.
PCJ in the 19-metre band has been
still only fair, and not to be compared
with the transmissions heard on 31
metres in former years.
PHI has been suffering from inter-
ference from some unknown station.
Radio Coloniale in the 19-metre band
has been at great strength, and needed
considerable regulation of the volume
control.
The higher bands have shown im-
provement, and both DJC and GSL
in the 49-metre band have been quite
good about 6 a.m., with a number of
weak stations, only one of which (RFN,
49.9 metres) could be identified.
JVN has been consistently good from
early evening, and JVH, 20.55 metres,
has been erratic.
The D.E.I. station at the bottom of the
31-metre band has been good every
night, with music strong enough to over-
ride the noise level and static.
Both VK2ME and VK3LR have been
inaudible at night, but good in day-
light hours.
WBXK has been still good in the late
evening on 19 metres, but all the 16-
metre stations have been weak, with
GSG best.
All stations have been showing im-
provement after 6 a.m., and in March
there should be plenty to choose from.
The coming winter should easily surpass
anything yet experienced on short waves.
There was another interesting talk
from GSF by the 8.8. C. chief engineer,
but owing to interruption the writer
missed most of it. This talk will prob-
ably be heard again from an electrical
recording.
NIGHTOWL.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions on the whole have not
been conducive to good reception. Rapid
fading has affected the higher frequen-
cies, static the lower. Nevertheless a
few overseas stations have been heard
well. Outstanding among these is GSF,
which is excellent at the commencement
of its No. 1 transmission, although it
deteriorates after 7 p.m. The Japanese
JVN hits the ear with almost violent
strength, but there are too many tons of
talk to the ounce of entertainment for
it to be of continuous interest. GSC in
the early mornings is sometimes ex-
tremely good, and on February 7 came
very near perfection in a recital which
included Bach’s Toccata in C and
Chopin’s Nocturne in B Flat Minor.
ORK has been coming through in im-
proved strength, and is how well in the
van of the stations heard before 7 a.m.
For several weeks the German stations
have not been at their best. A while
back DJB was a serious rival to GSF,
but at present the Daventry station has
an easy predominance. DJR on the
19m. band has been scarcely audible,
DJO and DJP on the 25m. band were
indifferent, while DJA and DJN on the
31m. band were subject to interference
by other stations until a late hour in the
evening.
Possibly the success of GSF is due in
some measure to its latest system of
transmitting aerials, which was the sub-
ject of an instructive talk by Sir Noel
Ashbridge on February 5. The 8.8. C.
had found that best results were obtained
by using a number (preferably four) of
horizontal dipoles arranged one above
another at a distance of half a wave-
length. GSF and GSG each had 16 of
these dipoles, placed at an angle of 20
degrees on either side of a centre line,
and arranged side by side so that there
were four in the horizontal plane and
four in the vertical plane. The aerials
used by the other Daventry stations gen-
erally consisted of eight dipoles each.
By the last mail particulars of the lay-
out of four types of receiving aerials
recommended by the German short-wave
station have been sent to the writer. No.
1 is a simple dipole aerial, of one full
wave-length. The insulated space in the
centre is 25cm. The feeder from aerial
to receiver must be at least one-half-wave
in length and preferably jacketed. The
coupling of the feeder to the receiver is
done via a high-frequency transformer,
i.e., two receiving coils.. This aerial has
the advantage of being able to pick up
all wave-lengths in the vicinity of the
one to which it is tuned, but has no
definite directional effect. No. 2 is a
similar aerial, the feeder of which is not
jacketed, but merely transposed, which
also has a protective effect. The space
between the transposed cables is 6cm.
This aerial gives maximum effects on the
wave-length to which it is tuned, but is
said not to give as good results as those
obtained with No. 1 No. 3 is a real
directional receiving aerial, which must
be so placed that the resistance points
in the direction of the station it is desired
to receive. It is in the form of an in-
verted V. The height of the mast must
be 0.7 wave-length, the total length of
wire of the receiving aerial 1.5 w.l. and
the baseline 0.5 w.l. The resistance,
which should be efficiently earthed,
should be about 400 ohms. Coupling of
the aerial with the receiver is effected
with a T.R.F. stage direct via a coil,
or, if a regenerative detector is used,
via a tuning condenser. This aerial
would generally be the most suitable in
cases where good reception results are
desired from one direction only, e.g.,
Europe. Maximum volume is obtained
on that channel to which the aerial is
tuned, but reception of waves ranging
between 14m. and 50m. is also said to
be very good. No. 4 is a combination of
the so-called Marconi and a Hertz aerial.
The horizontal and vertical portions cor-
respond to the longer and shorter sides
of an oblong, total length being one
w. 1., and the ground connection as short
as possible (in no case longer than Hm.).
By means of two condensers and a coil
it is possible to tune the aerial to the
short-wave bands desired. The aerial
thus acts on some waves as a Marconi
aerial, and on others as a Hertzian
aerial. It requires, however, some prac-
tice to tune correctly, as both condensers
have to be tuned. The results obtainable
are stated to be excellent, and surpassing
those given by Nos. 1 and 2, but not
those obtained with No. 3, which is con-
sidered the best of all.
P.R.W.
New Australian Radiotron.
A.W.A. Valve Co. has just issued
“Experimenter’s Bulletin No. 8,” and it
contains some good news. These publica-
tions were conceived by the co.’s chief,
A. Hoskins, as a means of keeping in
touch with the transmitting experimenters
particularly, and sounding out their re-
quirements. There are only 1300 or so
of them, spread over the Commonwealth,
yet this Australian co. goes out of its
way to make available certain valves of
“hard-to-get” nature. The new 6P6 in
this latest bulletin should be received
with open arms by telephony experi-
menters particularly. It is an R.F. pen-
tode of an improved 42 type, but de-
signed especially for suppressor grid
modulation. The type 802 valve has been
available in a similar series for some
time, but the 802 is costly. Realising
that most experimenters have to con-
sider expense, A.W.A. Valve Co. turned
out the 6P6 as an alternative at a lower
price, 165., which is near the average for
many valves of far less flexibility than
the 6P6. As with the 802, the 6P6 can
be used as a suppressor-grid modulated
R.F. power amplifier, crystal or electron-
coupled oscillator, and frequency multi-
plier. The bulb and base are similar to
the 42, except that the suppressor in the
6P6 replaces the plate of the 42. The
plate is taken to a top cap on the bulb
and pin No. 2 becomes the suppressor.
The tentative characteristics are: Heater
voltage 6.3 ; heater current 0.7 amps.;
grid-plate capacity .7mmfd.; input capa-
city Bmmfd.; output capacity 12mmfd.
As R.F. power amplifier it will take a
maximum plate voltage of 450. Mr.
Langford-Smith, the well-known A.W.A.
valve engineer, is responsible for the
design, and it is anticipated that the 6P6
will fill a real need in experimental ranks.
Amateur Chatter.
This week’s chat centres in “miles-per-
watt” records. VK3PG refers to the
“less-than-one-watt” record of VK4EL,
previously mentioned on this page, and
brings up some interesting information.
VK3PG says that when he first started
transmitting in 1933 he had several con-
tacts with VK3NQ, who was interested
in QRP records. Using the 80-metre
band, and with the stations 90 miles apart
by air line, 3NQ called one day, employ-
ing only an old dry cell showing half a
volt for plate supply. The signal was R 2 / 3
at 3PG, with fading, but distinctly read-
able. Time was 15.30 E.S.T. Since then
3PG has devoted most of his time to 20-
metre DX, with 180 volt's of B battery for
plate supply and a 201’A as P.A. in a
“Goyder lock” transmitter. Usual input
is 3| watts and maximum 4 watts.
In January, 1935, W.A.C. was achieved
with this power, and between February
and November that year contacts with
stations other than VK and ZL num-
bered 350. Over 50 countries were
worked, and all continents five times.
3PG reports having raised Europeans
with a shade over one watt. In May,
1935, he contacted PAOAZ in Holland
at 3 p.m. local time, getting a report of
QSAS and a request for power-reduction
tests. Input was reduced to 2ma. at 45
volts, and to 3PG’s astonishment the
Dutchman reported no difference in the
signal. The transmitter was then tried
with 22\ volts on the plates, but oscilla-
tion failed. On the following day, the
transmitter was made to function on
the 22\ volts, but after opening up on 45
volts the Dutchman reported no signals
at reduced voltage.
With normal power of watts, 3PG
has been reported R 9 from W6KRI, R 8
from Japan, Jamaica and the Philippines,
R 7 from Belgium and R 6 from several
European countries. South African and
South American reports have been under
these, but still around Q 5 R 6. VK3PG
is a DX QRP station making the most
of his antenna system. Having plenty of
ground space, being on a farm in Caster-
ton (Vic.), he uses a directional V array
52 feet high at the apex and sloping to
30 feet at the open ends of the V.
Length and clear surroundings appear
to contribute to the good results ob-
tained, for as much as 330 feet of radiator
has been used in each arm of the V with
improved results. The moral is that the
country amateur with space available and
plenty of wire can do the trick on low-
power DX, particularly on 20 metres, but
the city amateur, unless he owns a lot of
land in a good location, is handicapped,
and must turn to power for his results.
The old rule of “a good antenna is more
than half the battle” still holds good,
whatever the radio application.
VK2NO.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Is it necessary to have only the Amateur
Operator’s Certificate of Proficiency to obtain
a position as radio operator with the police
force or R.A.A.F., or must I have either the
Ist- or 2nd-class certificate of proficiency ? (2)
Any special course of study or books ? (3)
What rate of Morse must one' be able to send
and receive to obtain entry to the Signal Corps
of the militia ? —389.
(1) There are other more important con-
siderations for the police force than ability to
operate. Physique is a primary consideration.
The R.A.A.F. standard calls for at least the
2nd-class ticket, and for entry as WT/OP
mechanic some mechanical ability is also
necessary. (2) The Admiralty Handbook is a
good starter, followed by the various short-
wave manuals, such as the A.R.R.L. Handbook.
(3) Ten words per minute is desirable, but
operators are trained under routine. Volun-
teers are welcome, whether qualified operators
or not.


USEFUL DATA ON WILLYS 77.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 15 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 9 2-5
seconds. •
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 1-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 19ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 75.94 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 37 m.p.g.
Ba famed lyres. ..
./S/-SANE MOTORING
Only accurate pressures will give your tyres the perfect
balance which means so much to your comfort and safety
on the road. And only a gauge of proved efficiency and
precision is worthy of your confidence for the regular testing
o£ your tyres.
Cheap gauges offer you price advantage, but cjannot
guarantee the KISMF.T feature of ACCURACY —which is
so essential in a tyre gauge.
m
sji *
if
msmwwpf
A (jauqe is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading Sf
llh. units individually numbered on wide, flat STjB Jfjft
surfaces. afflaSL
Sole Manufacturers: WIIdLIAM TUBNEB BH»1»
AND BROS., bTD., Sheffield, England. Wfflm UV
Factory Bepresentative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
"SILVER
EDGE' 9
MARK REG IS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND .
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
TEST OF WILLYS 77.
HIGH PERFORMANCE, WITH LOW PETROL
CONSUMPTION.
BY FRED BERRY.
Q ATISFACTORY though last year’s model has proved under
Australian conditions, the ’36 model Willys 77, tested
recently over the “Bulletin” course, whilst retaining its indi-
viduality, is roomier, smarter in appearance and more flexible
to drive than its predecessor.
Mechanically a number of improve-
ments have been made, chiefly with re-
gard to mounting of the engine, more
powerful braking equipment, higher
compression and new-type spark con-
trol, which in the aggregate have brought
the car into line with the very latest
engineering practice.
The suspension system has also been
modified, the result being enhanced pas-
senger comfort and a definite improve-
ment in roadworthiness.
Road performance is comparable with
cars of much greater horse-power, a
touring speed of 60 m.p.h. with fully-
laden sedan being possible without
noticeable fuss or vibration, while in
traffic and parking the Willys 77 is as
easy to manoeuvre as a car in the
baby class.
The L-head four-cylinder
engine is now mounted
on the chassis on four
live rubber supports
instead of two, as in
last year’s model,
thereby improving
slow running in top
gear and eliminating
engine kick at low
road speeds. Compres-
sion ratio is increased
from 5.13 to 1 to 5.7 to 1.
Bore 3£in. and stroke
4fin. give a swept volume
of 134.2 cubic inches.
R.A.C. rating is 15.63 h.p.,
but 48 b.h.p. is developed at
3200 r.p.m. Clutch pedal, brake
pedal and hand-brake lever are
mounted independently of the power
plant to avoid vibration being trans-
mitted through the controls to the
driver.
Side-by-side valves are used, valve
guides being removable. Exhaust-valve
seatings are hardened steel inserted in
the cylinder block.
The cylinder block, of grey iron, is
cast integral with the upper half of the
crankcase, which is reinforced to pro-
The Float-O oil intake moves up and
down according to quantity of oil in
sump, and draws only clean oil through
underside screen.
vide a solid housing for the crankshaft.
Cylinder heads are detachable. The
crankshaft, running on three main bear-
ings, is balanced statically and dynami-
cally.
Pistons are cast-iron, with four rings
above the gudgeon pin, the bottom
slotted ring serving as an oil retainer.
Connecting rods are I section, with
Babbitt bearings.
Fuel is held in a seven-gallon tank at
rear, and fed by means of a mechanical
pump, driven from camshaft, to a
special type down-draught carburettor.
The new carburettor is provided with
means of adjustment both of main or
high-speed jet and idling jet in order to
cope with local atmospheric condi-
tions or to vary road performance as
desired.
The Willys 77 for 1936, showing improved body lines, neater mudguards and
pressed-steel wheels.
Inlet and exhaust manifolds form a
single casting, thereby providing an effi-
cient hot-spot immediately above the
mixing chamber. A circular mesh-type
air-cleaner and silencer of generous
dimension is mounted above the carbu-
rettor and rigidly stayed to the engine
block.
Lubrication is full-pressure type, oil
being delivered to main, connecting-rod
and crankshaft bearings by means of a
pump located in the sump and driven
by skew gears from the camshaft..
Pistons, cylinder walls and gudgeon pins
are splash lubricated. To ensure a con-
tinuous supply of clean oil regardless
of sump level the oil intake is the Willys
Float-O type, which moves up or down
according to the oil level and draws oil
from the centre of supply through a fine-
mesh gauze filtering screen.
Electrical equipment is six-volt type,
ignition being by coil and battery. The
distributor has been increased in size,
and now incorporates fully automatic
advance and retard of spark setting, the
vacuum control being actuated by suc-
tion from the intake manifold.
Maximum automatic advance of
ignition point is 28 degrees, and that
controlled by vacuum 20 degrees.
The generator is of
the heavy-duty type,
driven, together with
fan and water im-
pellor, by an endless
rubber belt from the
flywheel pulley. The
starter motor is
bolted directly on to
the flywheel housing,
and is controlled by a
foot starter located
above the floor level
on the engine bulk-
head.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch to a three-speed-and-re-
verse gearbox, with central change-speed
lever.
Hotchkiss-type final drive is employed,
the tubular propeller shaft being fitted
with enclosed metal universal joints at
front and rear. The rear axle is enclosed
in a pressed-steel banjo housing.
Axles are unit-centre, removable type,
semi-floating, running on Timken taper
roller bearings. Spiral bevel ring gear
and pinion are of nickel alloy steel, final
reduction ratio being 4.3 to 1.
Braking equipment on all four wheels
is the Bendix two-shoe duo-servo type,
service and hand brakes operating the
same equipment through independent
linkage. Cables to rear shoes are now
attached to the underside of the axle.
Steering is worm and block, semi-
irreversible type, with a reduction ratio
of 12 to 1. Turning circle is 34ft.
Chassis is of double drop X-member
construction, silent U shackles being
fitted to spring anchorages. Semi-ellip-
tic springs of new design are fitted front
and rear, to which are attached double-
acting hydraulic shock-absorbers. Mini-
mum ground clearance is 7fin.
The bodywork is well finished, and,
owing to increased width and length,
provides greater comfort than hitherto.
Larger instruments are fitted to the dash,
and accessories include an electric wind-
screen wiper. The wheels are pressed
steel.
The car tested was a four-door sedan,
driven by R. Smith, of Overland (Syd-
ney), Ltd., N.S.W. distributors, speedo-
meter reading 3841 miles. Together with
driver and observer, the car weighed
25|cwt.
First impression on driving through
city traffic was the remarkable facility
with which the car could be handled,
owing to splendid top-gear pickup, gen-
erous steering lock and powerful brake*
On reaching the open country road*,
approaching Baulkham Hills the car
cruised steadily at 50 m.p.h. without
noticeable fuss, and climbed all main-
road hills in top gear on a very small
throttle opening.
Approaching Windsor, speed was
reduced to 15 m.p.h., and with the gear
lever in neutral a distance of 725 yards
was coasted before coming to a stand-
still, proof of excellent alignment and
freedom of all transmission details.
A test of maximum speed was then
made over a measured mile with flying
start, the time taken, 47 2-ssec., giving
an average speed of 75.94 m.p.h., and at
these high revs, the car held the road
I well.
* Turning off the paved highway at
Grose Vale, several miles of unmade
dirt road were covered before reaching
Kurrajong. On this section roadworthi-
ness was excellent, and the many short,
steep grades were climbed with ease in
top gear.
On the final steep section of 21-5
miles on Kurrajong Mountain time from
a standing start was 3min. 43sec., top
and second gears being used throughout.
The difficult acute bends were negotiated
at speed with a pleasing absence of sway-
ing or skidding.
Returning via Richmond and Castle-
reagh, tests were made of slow running
Sturdy front axle and wheel assembly,
showing liberal use of Timken roller
bearings and rubber-cushioned tie rod to
prevent road shock.
an( j acceleration to determine the flexi-
bility of the engine. First 350 yards was
covered as slowly as possible, followed
by 350 yards accelerated ; both in top


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
m
in
‘it'
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WORN PLUtil
WAITE YOUR
MONEY
Replace them with
CHAMPIONS
Champion
6 SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
M I LEAGE
- £
T he sooner
a ear is
SIMONIZED
the better
SOED BY ABB GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; BARGE, 5/-.
SAFE FOR MORE MILES
mm
\
THE MOST DEPENDABLE TYRE
YET DEVELOPED
Obtainable Leading Garages, Tyre Dealers
and Service Stations throughout Australia.
Made by
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER COY. LTD.
gear without slipping clutch. On the
slow running the time, 2min. 6sec.,
averaged 5.7 m.p.h., whilst the accele-
rated section was clocked in 15 l-ssec.,
Starting motor assembly, showing (1)
Bendix screw pinion; (2) starter-switch
terminal; (3) brush; (4) brush spring;
(5) commutator; (6) oil ring.
crossing the finishing line at 55 m.p.h.
and averaging 47.4 m.p.h.
In top gear acceleration from a steady
10 to 30 m.p.h. occupied 9 2-ssec., 10 to
30 in second 5 l-ssec., while from a
standstill to 50 m.p.h. was clocked in
15 2-ssec.
A test of brake efficiency showed that
the car could be brought to rest from
25 m.p.h. in 19ft. 6in. Fuel consumed
on the test of 118 miles was 3 gal.
pints, averaging 37 m.p.g. (46.7 ton
miles), while the average road speed, in-
cluding all tests, was 35.7 m.p.h. —
a splendid all-round performance.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R.D.H. (Black Rock, Vic.). — The water tem-
perature gauge on the dash of my ’34 sports
model does not function. Dial sometimes
jumps up to 100 and then falls back to zero.
(1) What fluid is used inside the meter ? (2)
How can cause of trouble be ascertained ?
(1) Sulphuric ether. (2) First check meter
and then pipe line for leaks. If there are no
leaks, possibly the erratic movement is due to
rust or obstruction in the rack and pinion
gear. Inspect, and lubricate with machine oil.
Failing cure, send to agents, Smith, Son and
Rees, Wentworth-avenue, Sydney.
* * * *
C.J.B. (Warra, Q.).—(l) Which of the four
utility trucks named should give best service
over rough roads, combined with economy and
reliability? (2) Approx, petrol consumption
unladen at about 30 m.p.h. ? (3) For how
many miles is it advisable to use colloidal
graphite ?
(1) All are reliable, and choice is a matter
of taste and price. (2) All should give 16 to
20 m.p.g. unladen. No. 4 is slightly better in
this respect than No. 3. (3) Full recommended
quantity for 5000 miles; afterwards cut down
by half.
G.A.P. (Spalding, S.A.). — My ’27 model six-
cylinder car recently ran out of oil after a
seven-mile drive owing to the draincock being
left open. Have done several hundred miles
since, and oil pressure is normal and engine
pulls well. (1) Is it likely damage has been
done, and should the engine be pulled down ?
(2) Where can I get a replacement for A.C.
filter ? (3) Any way to test these filters or
clean the core ?
(1) If the engine did not seize before lack
of oil was observed, you have no occasion for
worry, as all parts had ample clearance owing
to ordinary wear. (2) Any Adelaide motor-
accessory house. (3) No certain method. Sug-
gest disconnecting outlet pipe from filter and
note whether oil flows freely when motor is
running. Core cannot be reconditioned. Sug-
gest a replacement every 15,000-20,000 miles.
* * * *
V.H. (Selwyn, Q.). — My four-cylinder car,
15 months old, has done 29,000 miles, is
running well and picks up quickly, but after
going 20 miles the motor gets hot and petrol
gives out. Have dismantled carburettor
several times and found it clean, but if I blow
back through the fuel line all is well for a
few miles and then the trouble starts again.
Petrol tank and fuel lines have been overhauled
several times without curing the trouble. Any
suggestions ?
Symptoms indicate' vapor lock. Inspect fuel
lines and, if close to exhaust system at any
place, bend away from hot-spot. If this is not
successful, lag the fuel line with asbestos cord,
and place a strip of asbestos board between
carburettor and exhaust manifold.
* * * *
C.H.A.G. (Cloncurry, Q)- — Is it possible to
buy a compression ignition engine to fit a
truck or car chassis; also name of Sydney firm
which could supply particulars and price ?
Ferrier and Dickinson, 19 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney, will supply data. The conversion will
cost in the neighborhood of £5OO.
A.S. (Woodburn, N.S.W.).' —Why do some
manufacturers still make four-cylinder trucKs
only ? Are they more reliable or economical .
There are now a great many more sixes tnan
fours. Reliability is about equal, althougn
fours should be slightly cheaper to operate.
He * * *
A.J.G. (Shipton’s Flat, Q.). —Fuel consump-
tion of my 20 -h.p. car seems excessive, 1
get only about eight m.p.g. Most of my
driving is in low gear owing to bad roads, but
I desire to reduce costs if possible. What s
the remedy ?
Eight m.p.g. is about all you can expect
with your heavy car if driven continuously in
low gear. Only way to reduce costs is to use
a second-grade fuel.
G.H.T. (Richmond, Q.). —My ’29 model
six-cylinder car (30,000 miles') has a distinct
knock when idling, also when running at 25
m.p.h. on level. Oil consumption is 15U
m.p.g. Have packed sump, but there is still
considerable waste of oil. Big ends have been
taken up. Would spraying improve matters!
Cause, cure and cost ? ... ,
Symptoms give definite indications of exces-
sive wear in cylinders and main bearings. The
wear is too great to be remedied by spraying,
and it will be necessary to rebore, fit new
pistons and adjust main bearings at a cost ot
between £l5 and £2O, depending on extras
found necessary as the job is done.
* * •> *
C.B.C. (Auckland, M.L.). —Where can I
obtain a manual for ’3l Wolseley Hornet.
Try Dalgety, Ltd., Phillip-street, Sydney.
* * * *
F.G.B. (Launceston, Tas.).— What is the
maximum speed of car named ?
Between 70 and 75 m.p.h.
* * * *
W.8.N., Jr. (Garah, N.S.W.).— My ’34 six-
cylinder sedan (8000 miles ) has developed ex-
cessive play in steering. Front wheels can be
moved several inches when car is stationary,
and driving over rough roads it is almost im-
possible to keep on the road. Rods and joints
are free from play. Cause and cure ?
Adjustment is provided to take up normal
wear by opening steering box and removing
one or more brass shims from cross-arm bear-
ing attached to trunnion shaft. Indications
point, however, to spreading of jaws of trun-
nion shaft, so permitting excessive play of
actuating gear. In this case a new trunnion
shaft will be required, together with a com-
plete overhaul of box and gear.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“80P”: Among hills within a day’s
run from Brisbane there is a Ford run-
ning well on greenhide big ends. They
last only a few weeks, but when Lizzie
nearly knocks his brains out her owner
provides her with new ones.
* * * *
“Jeffo”: A friend of mine bought an
old Arrol-Johnston for £lO and drove
it home. He took the engine out and
installed it in a 45ft. ketch, gearbox and
all. With an 18in. propeller he had to
use second gear, and could do from four
to five knots. With the sails set and a
fair breeze he could put the engine in
top and get along in fine style. The
engine and gearbox were in a single cast-
ing, and were equipped with force-fed
lubrication ; a little four-cylinder pump
providing the force and copper tubes
carrying the oil to the various points to
be lubricated.
* * * *
“Ekib”: An unusual defence by a
motorist charged with driving his car
without lights was that his dog, on the
seat beside him, must have turned out
the lights by scratching at the dashboard.
A YEAR OF RECORD-BREAKING.
Headed by Sir Malcolm Campbell the
world’s leading drivers, using cars for
the most part of special design, have been
so busy on the job of making and break-
ing world’s records that at the end of
’35 scarcely any of the previous year’s
figures remained standing.
The appended list of authentic records
at the end of last year is of particular
interest, and, while some of the times
have since been improved, it is gratifying
to note the regularity with which British
cars and drivers appear on the list.
Class A: Cars over 8000 c.c.
1 mile (f.s) —Sir Malcolm Campbell
(Campbell Special) 301.129 m.p.h.
5 miles (f.s.) —Sir Malcolm Campbell
(Campbell Special) 251.40 m.p.h
5 kilometres (f.s.) —Sir Malcolm Campbell
(Campbell Special) 292.12 m.p.h.
10 miles (f.s.) —G. E. T. Eyston
(21,236 c.c. “Speed of the Wind”),
167.10 m.p.h.
50 miles (s.s.) —G. E. T. Eyston
(21,236 c.c. “Speed of the Wind”),
160.39 m.p.h.
100 miles (s.s.) —G. E. T. Eyston
(21,236 c.c. “Speed of the Wind”),
159.60 m.p.h.
200 kilometres (s.s.) —G. E. T. Eyston
(21,236 c.c. “Speed of the Wind”),
159.18 m.p.h.
1 hour (s.s.) —G. E. T. Eyston
(21,236 c.c. “Speed of the Wind”), 159
miles 530yds 159.30 m.p.h.
12 hours (s.s.) —Eyston, Denby and Staniland,
1727 miles 1254yds 143.98 m.p.h.
24 hours —Eyston, Denby and Staniland, 3372
miles 899yds 140.52 m.p.h.
2000 miles —Eyston, Denby and Staniland,
142.70 m.p.h.
3000 miles—Eyston, Denby and Staniland,
140.75 m.p.h.
4000 miles—Eyston, Denby and Staniland,
142.16 m.p.h.
5000 kilometres —Eyston, Denby and Staniland,
140.43 m.p.h.
Class B: Cars over 5000 c.c. and up to
8000 c.c.
1 mile (f.s.) —T. Nuvolari
(Alfa-Romeo) 200.78 m.p.h.
Class C: 3000 c.c. to 5000 c.c.
1 mile (f.s.) —H. Struck
(4969 c.c. Auto Union) 199.00 m.p.h.
Class D: 2000 c.c. to 3000 c.c.
1 mile (s.s.) —L. Hartmann
(2991 c.c. Maserati) 96.14 m.p.h.
10,000 miles —Marchand and others
(2650 c.c. Citroen) .... 89.71 m.p.h.
7 days—Marchand and others,
12,192 miles 600yds 86.49 m.p.h.
Class H: 500 c.c. to 700 c.c.
1 mile (f.s) —R. Kohlrausch
(745 c.c. M.G.) 130.51 m.p.h.
1 mile (s.s.) —R. Kohlrausch
(745 c.c. M.G.) 93.42 m.p.h.
Class I: 350 c.c. to 500 c.c.
1 mile (f.s.) —J. Moritz
(493 c.c. D.K.W.) 100.52 m.p.h.


“THE AGE"
Established. 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
‘ Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
P. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Every page is
a front page in
“The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
F’S bought to read, when
there’s time to read
... in South Australia’s
evening- hours. Use it to
- , boost your_sales ... ...its ._.
all been proved,,
It gets
into
: f r
Representation: , ~
ADELAIDE —News Ltd/i North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. 'G. Pike. iFirst ..Floor.
NewsDaoer House.' Collins street. ■_
SYDNEY—P. A;- Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street. ■ ••
LONDON—K. A. Smyth. .34-40 Ludgate v ,
Hill. E.C.4. V , ,*. .... - I
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In We 11 ingt o n, New
Zealand, 100 °/o of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
. The majority of them
use-,“The Evening Post”
exclusively; They do so
;; j . because they know from
experience . that “The
‘(: -Evening / Post” brings
* immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
■ (Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
, 'Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
/
i.. 4 # J i ■
For particulars and - rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
ķ
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
It is the oldest daily “newspaper, in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, (,the centre of the prosperous and
progressive Nortji’. ' . ,
Full information, copies, and | advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 7,1-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st.,. Sydney.
ĸ
Wake up to the
opportunities that
6AM offers you.
1000 WATTS
The
Happy Station
•
23 William St.;
Perth, W.A.
The great markets
of the West —
pastoralis ts —•
miners — wheat
farmers—all wait-
ing for you to
reach them
through 6AM—■
the station that
is received
EVERYWHERE.
“Yes, when they want something from you,” said
her husband. “At heart they’ve no use for you or
your likes, Lola —those powdered, house-proud
women. Damn them! Damn them all!”
Lola shrugged impatiently. She hated these fre-
quent moods of his. She couldn’t understand him at
all of late. Why on earth couldn’t he be sensible and
enjoy himself as other sane folk did? Why couldn’t
he be like other people? She sulked.
July, which is so glamorous a month in Fiji,
passed over : the August that was to be so momentous
had barely begun. Men went leisurely about their
work ; in the lucid afternoons women, in their cool
white frocks, their colorful silks, went down to the
stores or to the pleasant, light-slanted verandahs of
friends for afternoon-tea and the flying gossip of the
drowsy town. Girls came down in the late mornings
from the bathing pool, moving slowly, dappled with
light and shadow under the mango-trees, their half-
dried hair hanging loose. Children loitered home
from school., A place of peace.
Into it all came the news of the war like a great
stone cast into quiet shallows, sending widening
ripples out and out. Excitement, suspense, anxiety
took Levuka by the throat. Surmises! Theories!
Argument! Fierce dissensions! Levuka was filled
with them. Citizens of British and German descent
who had so short a while back been kindly neighbors
were imbued with a growing racial antagonism. The
war brooded over Levuka like a black cloud, shadow-
ing more or less every life.
Lola didn’t understand at first. What had the
war to do with her? Europe was only a dim-name
to her. But the change swept away the hatred and
bitterness that had poisoned Roddy’s mind. Beneath
that approaching colossal shadow —that, lifting some-
times, showed to the straining eyes of his mind march-
ing armies, flaming towns, heroic deeds, pity and
horror—his own personal griefs could not endure. And
he had now to face anew and more insistent problem.
He came home one evening, moody, irritable,
excited. He didn’t want his tea. Lola, looking like a
child —but a Southern child—in anew embroidered
white frock, widened dark eyes.
“Are you sick?”
“Clay’s leaving,” he said irrelevantly. “He’s going
to the front.”
“Eilei! He’s a fool.” .. 7 r
“You don’t understand,” Rod said heavily. “It’s
his place. It’s the place of every able-bodied man.”
“Who’ll look after their wives and children then?”
demanded Lola. “Let the men go that haven’t any
wives.”
“It’s every man’s place,” said Roddy again.
“But I’m a coward—a miserable coward.” ,
“And a good thing, too,” said Lola. “But go, if
you like. I can find another man.” , .
She sat smiling confidently in a childlike way
she had, which was yet not childlike. The dark
beauty that had drawn him to her still bloomed on
her smooth body; she had an amazing look of inno-
cent wildness. But he knew she had not been
innocent. She was fickle and light-natured—a pro-
duct of Europe and the tropics, wearing like a gar-
ment easily to be laid aside a conventional morality.
She couldn’t altogether be blamed for her nature ; she
would cling to a man as long as he pleased her or was
strong enough to hold her. She would bring children
into the world, lax-fibred like herself, and presently,
when her young beauty faded, she would become a
garrulous, darkening old woman. But he could never
count on her fidelity while she remained attractive.
Into Roddy’s house in the narrow, grass-grown
road flowed the tinged world of Levuka. Women
darker than Lola ; women almost white! Native
women, too. They sidled in and sat listening on
the mats in the comfortable untidiness that was the
normal condition of the house. The flowing sound
of women’s voices was woven into a pattern in which
the names of the European women of Levuka sounded
again and again. Lies, slander, picturesque pervert-
ing of truth, truth itself, philosophy, kindliness—their
gossip ran the whole gamut, j The lesser world of
Levuka sitting in judgment—the world into which
Roddy had sunken. Deep in it, he thought sometimes
of Daphne as of one infinitely apart. Her soft, clear
eyes, her pale face like a star, looked down on him
in the depths. But the war had blotted out for the
moment even her ethereal allure ; it had overwhelmed
everything. ;
For he would have to go.
Each day was bringing that home to him. He
read avidly, he saw the shadow of events to come
falling over the whole world. If he hadn’t been such
a damned coward!
His imagination showed him something of .what
death could come like in those too clearly visioned
battlefields. . . t „•
But he’d, have to go. That old fascination that
fear had for him would compel him. “Curse the
damned war!” he said violently. He didn’t want to
be shattered to little bits —to be left dying in agony
on trampled, reddened earth. His life was in ruins!
Daphne and the hope of her gone for ever! But he
didn’t want to die.
Early September brought the news of Vivien’s
death. The shock of it lifted for a little space the
shadow that hung over him. The youngest of them —
and the.first to die.
. Dick and Ruve arrived next, reaching the little
port, two hours before the ship sailed for Sydney. He
saw pity in Ruve’s eyes, pity and the understanding
that had always been between them. He wondered
if Dick thought him a coward. It was easy for Dick ;
imagination wouldn’t paint for Dick, those too-
realistic pictures Roddy saw day and night. - His fear ?
began again, to torture him.
„ . A day came when at last he faced the issue: he
would make up his mind either to go or stay, and
be done with it. He looked across at Lola’s dark face.
His wife! But there was nothing between them but
the.-bond of the flesh. She couldn’t help him. Nor
would she care to if she could.
.. ' But Lola , had got up in amazement. Old James
Laurence was standing in the doorway. - •
c • Roddy rose to his feet in a daze. The last scene
between them came back to his mind. Knowing the
nature of the old man, he thought" they had spoken
together for the last time. He stood warily, letting
his.father, take the move.
At first sight his father seemed to have changed
little. But closer observance showed telltale signs.
He was ageing. This affair of Roddy and Lola, Elena’s
infidelity, Vivien’s death —he bore the marks of them.
He held his sturdy head high, but it was an effort.
Time, which he had so magnificently ignored, was at
last beginning to take its toll of him. ' "
“Rod,” his father said, “I never thought to cross
your threshold while I had breath. But there’s more
in the balance now than the trouble between us.
This is no time for private quarrels now. When are
you going, lad? When are you joining up? Dick’s
gone—you’ll have seen him. He’s a man, Dick! But
maybe you’re short of money, Rod; you can’t get
away. Mine’s behind you to the last shilling. You’ll
have to take your share in this, Rod.”
Lola broke in shrilly:
“What, do you mean? What are you saying?
Rod’s not to go. Who’ll look after me?”
The old man looked at her with eyes like stone.
“You! You who ruined my boy! You’ll have
no need to worry. I’ll see that you get a fitting
' allowance. Now, leave me with my son.”
> Lola, defiant, looked fiercely at him, but his
strong eyes mastered hers. She stood her ground a
moment and then went sullenly into the untidy bed-
room. She slammed.the door.and stood tense against
it, listening; ' . ■ •
Father and son in silence looked at each other.
In the old man’s eyes was tenderness, but Rod, in
bitter resentment, chose to ignore it. Must his father be
always interfering in his life? He’d be damned if he’d
stand any more.of it. The old man broke the silence:
“Vivien’s dead, Rod. But you know it. The
poor, pretty lassie! It broke me to see it—to see her
glad to die. But let’s say no more of it. It’s you, now.
When are you going?”
- At that plain question Rod’s resentment turned
to anger, the stronger for the deadly fear that haunted
him.-. The fear of violent death, the horror of blood-
shed he had always had, the thought of himself kill-
ing. God! It sickened him. That was what his
father was driving him to, his,father who had sought
to shape, his life—the lives of all of them —to his own
arbitrary desires. Sanity deserted him for a whirling
moment. His father in the yellow lamplight seemed
a monstrous figure dominating the little room. And
outside was the thick Levuka night ; he felt it was
pressing him-in as though the dark peaks behind the
little town crowded closer, holding them together in
a dreadful intimacy. - He' flung back his head.
“How do- you know I’m going?” he questioned
coldly, his cold tone masking the panic rising in him.
The old man staggered back, as if he had received
a blow between.the eyes. His face went grey.
V “By God!” Ire said. “By God!”
His son watched him.
The old man got back his breath —and words
with it.,* - I . \ / :
“By God! -1 always knew you for a coward, Rod.
But I shut my' fool eyes to it. My son! But I thought
you’d rise above it in a time like this —that you’d be
a man. I give in—you can’t make a thoroughbred
out of a mongrel. I swore I’d do it. My only son—
a damned coward—a thing to spit on.”
Black anger rose in Rod. He shook free a
moment from the other’s dominance.
“Damnation! I’ve had enough,” he said. “Why
can’t you. leave me alone —in the world I belong to?”
A spasm shook his father’s face. He put out a hand.
“Rod, I’m damned quick-tempered. I say more
than I mean —and it’s not everyone I’d admit that
to. I’ve been hard, boy, but I wanted the best for
you. - Tell me I’ve heard wrong—that my son’s not a
damned shirker.”
A silence fell again. They looked at each other,
and again it seemed to Rod that the dark, fantastic
peaks of ’Levuka crowded close about them, listening.
But his anger had. left him ; he was only conscious
now of his fear. He said, sullenly, answering the ques-
tion in the old man’s eyes:
. “I’m damned if I’ll go! It’ll blow over. I can’t
stand the-thought of it. Being blinded—mangled—
vkilled like a rat in a trap. I can’t!”
“Coward! ‘Contemptible coward!” said the old
man in a tone that cut like steel.
He went :heavily out into the thick Levuka night.
(To be continued next week.)


pf*
LIILJJ
Vk
m
* i
Y
¥
m
m
■
M
D
:,s
■
WM
mm*
H
Wm,
'm.
m
1
m
m
m
mm
m
m
m
wk
m
w».
s;,, .i
mm.
i
<m,
m
m
mm
t ;
mm
m
■
m
m
x
■
P
n
(D^^Gillixm’s
(3^s^
Scots (Uhisky
n
«S
w
Wm,
#
1
a
JcfjuruUc
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
AW'»
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 j-i)
X
-v
\®. < ' jtSi&i&i, o*x
3 %Cr^
~e> v ' —• 5
.r
r-
«>
&
e
>>
>’ ** . n 6 V
> 0> >
>’ *'.,$6
V *|0 6 \V
Sv* v
\' e
V
\sfi
, V 1
a
V
*t$-
V'
kM-'
,o vV '
A
,*** , V <svcV V ot
S e ' A >S
o$ v°


KT9Q
X
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M. THE KING
irff' • •• • 'fiH / /
%y*?M
‘/i'j
i'lnmailA
£
to te»te-«t' 0O ce. ° .^gs
Ujjj&t
•*a
A Ji-
r\' ;•
ifJf $&*
; . 4 A- *r.
v-
v : ■ '**?-
v^'
fa j* # I
istrv
Chen 1
a#
&N CV
e oii s
Profess 0^
s^ s '
College
sident
teR ts
Roya'
o.s°
c0>'
SlO*
tf\e
sed
tn e
W.aM
uC' e
G'*
6?'
ItYW*
v«rttti
o£
Vl^ e
iAWiiP
ei° e
G**Y®.
£0
U\ed
nd
dW 1
{ 0 u
tot®’
rV#“
v* 0?e^
VP et
VJ\\‘
6ft*
Jttd
pa*v
Q\n
ad)
tYvW
U3- ct
(SW 1
«atet
»de
■UB
i\\uw4
a >e
V)» 5
wwdital
0 tV
rCV
t\V-S
gtP
Gw
«W*
M«aVVl«d
fvO
Vriti''*"
OF
Gw
LM
nOOF
PRO
?>; -*>
:.->t i#.*
:
//////
DRY GIN
<jS*L
