

51
*
oing
on
SSn
]%»
i \
': ! 1 £ '
Are you so planning your investments that you can confidently
say to your son “You’re going to have every chance, Son!”
Such chances can only be made available by skilled planning
and best use of expert financial advice.
Every father owes it to his children to invest his capital in such
a manner that they will be started in life under the best possible
conditions. , -
The science of sound investment calls for highly specialised
knowledge of many phases of finance so that regular dividends
and appreciation of capital will be a natural sequence. Expert
guidance is an essential to successful investment.
'Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., offer an unrivalled financial and
investment service enabling investors whether large or small to
obtain best results with utmost possible security.
Write for particulars of the advice service, available free on
application.
Investment and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capita! £250.000
Head Office KEMBLA BUILDING. MARGARET STREET. SYDNEY.
Phones BW 1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 5752 S S )
Branch Office: Commercial Bank Chambers. Beardy St.. Armtdale. N.S.W. Phone: Armidale 150. Box No. 125. Armidale
Metropolitan Building
Bq-cj i Queen Street
MELBOURNE
O f' Q Box 520 J
Commonwealth Building
Queen Street
BRISBANE
G.P O. Box 1017 N
ķ
C.M.t. Building
King William Street
ADELAIDE
C P.O. Bo\ 650 F
[Representatives at
Perth, W.A.
Auckland and
Wellington, N,Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2950.
Japan and Our Wool
Wednesday, August 26, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK'S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
- CUT HERE AND MAIL
Pfease send, without obligation, your New Free
•k booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Mg Name
Up Address ...
S.B, 136 • •
S. H. PRIOR JMEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
FI. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for-a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a 'work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year's Prize.
The Red Page
“THAT
SWAGGER”
Since even one
who has read the
manuscript of All
That Swagger has
asked what the
title means, others, too, will possibly find
it ambiguous. An inclination seems to
be to stress the first word, slur the next
and partly stress the third, so that you
have an author ambitious enough to
essay parading in a book the consider-
able host of all that swagger.
Miles Franklin is not as ambitious as
all that; is, indeed, a comparatively
modest person. To extend this note of
personalia a little, she is extraordinarily
evasive and even shy, especially for an
author; or, if that be more impolite than
I intend it, then for an author of her
standing and experience, some of which
experience, I imagine, may possibly have
produced her quick evasiveness. She is
very pleasing to meet, and one who
retains that easiest quality of all to kill
out—buoyant enthusiasm. This will be
found present enough in her novel, as it
is clear in herself.
But that only remotely concerns the
novel’s title. The meaning of the title,
as I read it, is “all that swagger, and
what came of it”—nothing whatever to
do with all that, or all who, swagger.
“Swagger” is not a word that everyone
likes; for my part, in the definition I
give to it, I should place it among the
best. In extension of this definition I
should say that there indubitably was a
good deal of swagger —not the sexless
“swank”—about Australian colonising.
The title, then, has to do with all that
swagger. Danny, coming here with his
“brave Johanna,” their going back into
the country that now is largely civilised,
with, in the midst of where they set up,
now an “ideal city” full of other-lands’
trees that Johanna, “at the furthest ex-
tremity of the globe,” would have wept
over: the swagger there is about that
adventuring and about its outcome
through the few generations of Delacys,
to the latest of them aloft in the Smithy
tradition, which is a translation, after
all, of the tradition begun in all that
colonising swagger ... it is all that which
is implicit in the title.
Caught up in the narrative are other
things than that swing and swagger of
colonising, and after. By the admirable
means of giving to an alien from the
Old World an enthusiasm warm and un-
qualified for Australia (the author’s own,
though perhaps there was a Danny, and
he had his own also), Miles Franklin
has lightly cleared what hitherto had
been a difficult obstacle in the way of
Australian writers. It seems to me that
pretty well all of them—unconsciously
no doubt —have been seriously troubled
over the rightness, or propriety, of ex-
pressing what at heart they really felt
for Australia. About that feeling,
despite the obvious patriotic efforts of
the bush poets—and others in fugitive
asides —Australians have been, and still
are, singularly inarticulate. There has,
of course, always been plenty of obvious
patriotics about superficialities—sport and
butter and other fine products of
the place—but of the place itself, of
what we feel for Australia itself, not as
an area that grows things or has cricket
played on it, but as a place of which we
are conscious in a basic racial aware-
ness —no ; as far as I know, there has of
that been no sustained volume of voice.
Of course, an anthology could be made
up of our writers’ tribute to Australia as
a place for which they have felt as deeply
and sincerely, perhaps, as Miles Frank-
lin herself ; but, considered in the mass,
does not the weight of adverse expression,
from hard-reined understatement to out-
right haired, tend to keep awareness
of feeling for this Australia silenced and
bottled up? Isn’t the balance of feeling
not for but against Australia?
As far as I know, no novel until All
That Swagger made reversing that bal-
ance its main business, I do not mean
that there has not been equally honest
depiction of this Australian place. Of
course, there has. Henry Lawson,
Katharine Susannah Prichard, Vance
Palmer, Frank Dalby Davison, Brian
Penton, Kylie Tennant, are a few
in but one tradition of our writing
(the best tradition, I think) who have
been honest with themselves, writ-
ing with fidelity to the vision their eyes
gave them of Australia. But none of
them separately, and not all of them
together, ever instructed me to think
better of the Australian place. In it all
is a baffled note of subconscious dissatis-
faction breaking through. That’s a result,
perhaps, of their having seen that
charted Atlantis of the Australian con-
sciousness, as it is of the American: the
old civilised world. I say it is perhaps a
result of their having seen ; I know that
with some it isn’t, for they have never
left here, or hadn’t when they wrote. I
feel that, possibly unknown to them, their
Atlantis is the fable of a fable—not a
place they have even visioned, but a
vague idea planted in their subconscious
by that excellent planter Literature ; that
it is the seed of fable set in them by their
reading of writers who long since grew
out of any self-consciousness in express-
ing feeling for their place, writers who
for ages have been heaping up tribute to
the Old World, till it has become a
legendary glory and grandeur,
So I am not setting down that Miles
Franklin has written an incomparable
novel, except in one thing: not that it
gives a depiction of Australia more
authentic than any other; nothing at all
like that: but only that it gives voice to
our inarticulate enthusiasm for this place
Australia, makes us feel more strongly
for it, attracts our eyes, more readily to
fl 3 makes us realise it as glorious reality,
Therefore, I believe an influence is here
which may not be immediately felt, but
will be a power in the land henceforth,
unloosing vital enthusiasms in our
national life, and hence in our literature,
which may now take a fresh tone, move,
from this inspiration, to a higher plane,
And all this is but a way of saying
that, though Danny Delacy is undoubtedly
bero j n j/ iat Swagger, neither his
brave Johanna nor any of the other
women is Miles Franklin’s heroine. Her
heroine is Australia,
*
CECIL MANN.
Exit and
Revival
All literary folk
of a certain stand-
ing have visions
of immortality,
and the fact that
Arnold Bennett took extraordinary pride
in the neatness and appearance pf his
manuscripts is not wholly unconnected,
I imagine, with this conceit. The neat,
upright caligraphy was, jpf course, part
of his nature. But why the special
colored initial letters which he devised
for himself? He was once offered a very
large sum for the manuscript of The
Old Wives’ Tale, but he refused the
offer. Sentiment perhaps. It was his
masterpiece. The book was not a finan-
cial success, and made its way compara-
tively slowly in England.
Now Bennett ha ll come under the
hammer, and has been sold up for £3745
At Sotheby’s, the other day, his manu-
script of The Old Wives’ Tale fetched
£1250. The manuscripts of Bennett’s
other novels went for comparatively small
sums: Riceyman Steps, £390 ; Imperial
Palace, £200; Clay hanger, £100; Hilda
Lessways, £6O. The manuscript of his
first novel, A Man from the North,
fetched' £6O; and the unfinished, untitled
manuscript of his last novel, a fragment
of 31,000 words, fetched £3O. The highest
price for the manuscript of any of his
plays was £l6, and the manuscript of his
last (unpublished) short story brought
£2l. His journalistic efforts were sold
in parcels. Letters from contemporary
authors t 6 Bennett were also sold.
While Bennett’s fame is, apparently,
dying before our eyes, we are witnessing
the re-entry of one whom we might have
suspected of being well and truly dead.
Samuel Butler is indeed in process of
emerging from the tomb ; there has been
stirring about it for some little time now.
I don’t think they sold ' Butler’s effects,
blit they gathered them all into a museum
—at Oxford, I fancy. Butler’s servant
Alfred is still alive, and has been hunted
up by painstaking journalists, and prob-
ably Alfred will soon .be writing his
reminiscences. His own not Butler’s;
for of course, we have had access to
Butlers notebooks for a long time.
Butler knew that he was destined for
immortality, and left all these things in
order. He knew it would take time, but
his day would come,
Butler would have enjoyed the joke
immensely of Erewhon appearing in a 6(1
reprint edition alongside My Man Jeeves,
Lady Oxford’s Autobiography and
George Moore’s Esther Waters. This is
what has actually happened. This is the
sort of revenge he himself could hardly
have thought out, though he was an
adept at thinking out the most impish
sort of things. Erewhon, the book that
killed his mother. The book that no pub-
lisher would sponsor. The book that
was published anonymously. The book
that shocked the orthodox. Butler actu-
ally had to borrow the money to launch
this book into print. And now Erewhon
-ic dectirmrl fnr a new lease nf life And
Jf destined tor a new lease or lire. Ana
how very harmlessly it reads.
In the first 20 years of the life Of
only 3000 copies, and
k\\ that Butler got out of it was £62 10s.
lOd. Of Course Butlef was read,- to a
certain extent, in his own lifetime, but
he did not woo the public, so it did
not woo him. His spiritual home was
the last ditch, and the public fancy is not
tickled by last-ditchers. But Butler knew
that his reputation stood well with all
who mattered. It was an intimation of
immortality. So he kept notes assidu-
ously, and he kept them for the benefit
of posterity. Probably one of these days
a new sort of dictator in a homespun
shirt will elevate Erewhon to a place of
honor beside the Bible of the Commu-
nists, the Hitler Bible and the Douglas
Bible. Indeed, the Nazis seem to have
stolen part of "Butler’s thunder already,
Butler was original in emphasising (in
Erewhon ) the analogy between crime and
disease. In Erewhon they gaoled the dis-
eased, and it is but a step from sterilising
the diseased to gaoling them. In Erewhon
they had a partiality towards fair-haired
folk, though they did not think of in-
quiring whether they were of pure
Aryan descent. And, of course, the day
must soon dawn when a dictator will
motivate his policy on Butler’s philosophy
in regard to machinery,
- Erewhon was not of an ideal State, Hke
Utopia. The book was plain satire, and
realistic, too, except for the names. The
way to Erewhon was partly through
Maoriland country—above Mesopotamia,
which was Butler’s property in the Rangi-
tata district. I believe that later genera-
tions have pointed out stones on the
Hokitika Pass, and have said that Butler
intended them for the statues. But Butlei
said he never saw those stones.
There is a sort of belief that work
made by nothing more passionate than
intellectual observation is bound to die-
in time. Butler was also a pioneer (m
the literary sense), and pioneers, too, have
a way of passing out. But there is some-
thing in Erewhon to provide mental
fodder for many generations yet to come.
Indeed, in everything that Butler ever
wrote.
GERALD DILLON
Hatfield on
Australia
William Hat-
field’s A ustralia
Through the
Windscreen is the
best description
of a round-Australia trip yet printed.
Hatfield is a man of wide experience.
Born in English farming country, he has
been sailor, fruit-picker, book-keeper,
drover, horsebreaker, kangaroo-shooter
and novelist He can write, and he has a
pretty power of detailed observation, a
nice descriptive faculty and a lot of
sound horsesense. Also the ability to
build optimism on a pile of gloomy facts.
There are some small slips and in-
accuracies in his book —mostly con-
cerned with the misspelling of proper
names. But when he gets out among the
Mitchell grass and the spinifex he makes
no mistakes.
The first impressions of Australia as
he saw it in his latest journeyings—made
in 1932 and 1934—are saddening.
Towns which one knew as thriving in
the coach days of Queensland are ‘’fast
slipping into the state so often observed
ill Australian towns, just eking out a
bare subsistence in their dying days.’
The motor-car lakes trade past their
doors. The big stations of west and
north-west Queensland find it more and
more profitable to buy their stores from
the capitals. Stations are eaten out
because the owners think in terms of the
word Big.
Farming becomes a contemptible thing
in the eyes of people who can move on.
The sight of a haystack evokes a sneer.
They don’t have to mess about making
valets and waiters of themselves to sheep
and cattle; they get on a horse and crack
A whip behind ’em and shift on to another
part of their vast runs. They have space.
This is Big man’s country. And they are
BIG MEN.
Australia, Hatfield says, flounders
Along with the curse of having been dis-
covered about the same time as steam,
S 6 that it has been considered effete to
demand a road for overland travel. Yet
he doesn’t think that Roman Empire
building could be called effete. Nine-
teen hundred years ago when Rome con-
quered Britain she built roads connect-
ihg every mile of land which she took
north of Londinium —roads with bridges
and paving so good that in his boyhood
he rode his bicycle comfortably over
them in their reconditioned state. But
in Australia, outside the coastal areas
Within reach of a politician, he found no
roads —just tracks and mean sets of ruts.
And the standards which apply to roads
apply to living in general. Hence “the
Wizened women of the north,” whose de-
cline and weariness contrast so strongly
with the condition of those whom he
found at Milner Ponds—the daughter
beautiful and with a glow of health and
rosiness upon her, and the mother strik-
ingly attractive and happy in a com-
fortable bungalow, with a garden and a
drive and cool, mosquito-netted veran-
dahs.
Towns, too, struck Hatfield as did
the stations. Some of the pictures he
paints of the regression of the inland are
terrible. But they are constructive pic-
tures, not drawn in any spirit of despair.
(Continued on page 4.)


FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
'The Senior Store’
"While l Live I’ll Grow'
ii
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
Notice how warm it's getting these mornings? It
will be Spring before you know where you are, and
what about that hat of yours? It's been an old
friend certainly, but Winter deals rather unkindly
with hats, and you should have a new one — a
snappy young hat that will make you square your
shoulders and walk with a spring in your step! You
feel better dressed with a smart hat —and you ARE
better dressed. Choose a felt or a panama — and
salute Spring with a truly sartorial flourish!
THE FAMOUS "AKUBRA" HAT
Buy an Akubra Hat, and you will certainly be
satisfied. These hats are made in Australia from
pure Fur Felts that are wear-resisting, and they
retain their smart appearance practically indefinitely.
A large and varied range of new styles . . . snap
brims of narrow and medium widths. Also dressy
Homberg style with bound-edge brims. Greys,
Fawns, Browns. Boomerang quality. Price, 19/6.
High quality . . 25/-. Superfine quality . . 32 6.
. • . VT A:
AT: S-T-T /T;,;/ •;
r
-A
**:*$:<
A
Jtli
0 Men’s Hat Dept.—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
mm
mm
A.
HORDURA" (RESD.) FUR FELT HATS
These hats are obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’. They are
well known for their splendid wearing quality and smart appear-
ance. Of well-matured Fur Felt. A good range of new season
styles with narrow and medium width brims. Silk lined. Light,
Medium and Dark Greys, Fawns and Browns. Price 15/-
"SOVEREIGN" PURE FUR FELT HATS
Sovereign” Hats are recommended for dependable service. Neat
snap brim shapes of narrow and medium widths, made of pure Fur
Felt. Assorted colourings of Light Grey, Mid Grey, Steel. Slate,
Fawn and Brown. Price, each 22/6
"WOODROW" PURE FUR FELT HATS
Woodrow English-made Hats have a world-wide reputation for
quality and correctness. Made to retain their original shapes. A
variety of new styles with plain-edge brims. Silk linings to tone.
New season Greys, Fawns and Browns. Price, each 37/6
"summer showerproof panamas
There isn t a hat so cool and comfortable to wear during hot
weather than one of these Panamas. They’re showerproof, too,
being specially processed to withstand wet weather conditions.
Smartly blocked shapes. Greys, Fawns. “Essman” Brand, made
in U.S.A. Price 25/-
Processed and blocked locally. Price 19/6


0.
mtAe. mcrfirtUu? knlleo
jkri 1/OttSi. tPUrH&i*
& ' WITH '
Super Plume 2tU
-*■ THE $ POWER PETROL f
cimosoi MoMldil
PRACTICALLY 10OX PURE LUBRICANT
Hatfield’s prescriptions are smaller,
better improved holdings. Water con-
servation. Decent roads. Medical ser-
vices. Local growing of vegetables and
provision of milk and reasonable com-
forts. His outlook is sane, and his spirit
is that of a prophet of Canaan. He does
not see failure in the future because he
thinks the present wastefulness of re-
sources and carelessness of ordinary com-
forts merely a phase. Once, it ruled on
the coast as well as in the inland —and
not so long ago at that, as any N.S.W.
North Coaster knows.
On the motoring side, this book has a
special interest. Hatfield and his com-
panion traversed what will virtually be
the route of the round-Australia race in
1938. Prospective racers should get a lot
of valuable hints from it.
M.H. ELLIS.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS .
AFTER the enormous amount already
written on the war, from the voluble
works of retired generals and politicians,
or their biographers, to
the equally voluble imag-
inative works of excited
fictioneers, Liddell Hart’s
calm, brilliantly com-
pacted, vigorously written
little book The Outline of
War will probably be
passed over as a mere redundancy by
the many who feel, not unnaturally, that
they have had enough. That would be
a pity, because everything Mr. Hart has
set down
“Was set down long since,” interrupted
the devil at my elbow, “and incompar-
ably more briefly and concisely, by the
economical Sassoon. How does it go
again?:
"Good morning; good morning!” the General
said,
When wc met him last week on our way to
the Line.
Now the soldiers he smiled at are most of 'em
dead,
And we’re cursing his stafl for incompetent
swine. •
"He’s a cheery old card,” grunted Harry to
Jack
As they slogged up to Arras with rifle and
pack.
But he did for them both by his plan of
attack.
“Excuse me,” he apologised serenely.
“Slight touch of spring. But isn’t that
about the sum of what our bold Hart
flings from his antlers? I should say
it’d be a dandy book for doting aunts to
give to ex-soldiers. Cheer ’em up. Must
be wonderfully brightening to all you
heroes to realise, for instance, that your
mountain-goating at Anzac only hap-
pened because those hardy survivors of
innumerable defeats, the Russians, wanted
the Turks lightly diverted for a while.
Even more pleasing, I’m sure, to know
that long before you ever got near the
place the reason for that request by the
big steam-roller had completely evapo-
rated.
“And what a nice text for next Anzac
Day,” he proceeded gaily ; “what a nice
thought that when you’d landed you ‘had
a superiority of sixteen to one over the
defence,’ but that you ‘were raw troops’!
Or that only 20 Turks were holding the
Heights when a column of you stopped
a few hundred yards from the crest, and
by the time you’d finished what you
stopped for- —breakfast—the ridge was
bristling with rifles,’ and that fateful bit
of bully-munching lost the Heights for
ever!
“Nice little outing altogether, Gal-
lipoli,” he added reflectively. “Eve
always thought one of its happiest bits
was when those 20,000 troops landed at
Suvla, with only a thousand Turks, who
hadn’t a single machine-gun, to stop them
from going in and outflanking Johnno’s
entire shooting-gallery. Of course, I
had to put the kibosh on that. Would
have spoilt the whole effect. Might have
shortened the war by years. Also, you
Australians wouldn’t now be able to kid
yourselves that an utter failure was a
splendid success, to be annually cele-
brated with bunting and boloney, to the
everlasting glory of my -stout old off-
sider Mars. So 1 just put a touch of
the ’fluence on Corps-Commander Stop-
ford, with the result that he stopped
aboard ship and settled down to sleep,
after a few days of which he sent his
divisional commanders congratulatory
messages—on having done the same
ashore.
“Of course,” he explained breezily, “I
only looked in on Gallip. occasionally.
Being merely a sideshow, I mostly left
it to my eighth offsider. He’s since been
disrated for the chance he missed at the
evacuation. For my part, I’d bigger fish
in France. And I will say your gallanl
leaders —Joffre, incidentally, did his lead-
ing from 80 miles behind, and thought of
going further —I will say he and French,
Haig, Foch, Nivelle and the rest of them
invariably behaved most considerately.
Right from the start they all grasped the
idea that there was nothing like giving
the brave boys a chance to show what
was in ’em. Even you heroes had that
chance later on, in the Somme and
Passchendaele and other stunts. You didn’t
suspect at the time, did you, that when-
ever you had 10,000 or so of your cob-
bers to bury there it simply meant that
somebody had had a bright idea? I
notice Hart credits the record in the
Giving the Boys a Chance Stakes to Doug
Haig: ‘Sixty thousand men had paid for-
feit to the plan that failed —the heaviest
day’s loss that a British Army ever suf-
fered.’ Not so bad for one man’s bright
idea!
“By the way,” he continued reminis-
cently, “it was on the eve of that very
attack that Doug made the prettiest faux
pas in mistaken identity I’ve ever figured
in. T feel,’ wrote Doug, ‘that every step
in ray plan has been taken with the
Divine help.’ Not altogether surprising
in Doug, of course. Trifle color-blind.
Remember how, as Duff: Cooper men-
tions, Doug once mistook a ploughed
field right beside the road for a beautiful
burst of poppies? Easy enough to palm
yourself off for another on a bloke like
that. Why, he even mistook you for a
soldier, didn’t he?
“Which reminds me,” he added apolo-
getically, “I think I interrupted a great
thought of yours. You were say-
ing”—
“When you launched your barrage,” I
replied feelingly, “I was in the midst of
saying that everything Mr. Hart has set
down in his incredibly interesting and
brilliant book is a lesson and an instruc-
tion to mankind. Especially it should
be read for its information on the petty
minds, little personal jealousies, conceits
and ambitions of the lauded leaders of
armies.”
“Hear, hear!” agreed devil at elbow
with enthusiasm. “A lesson for man-
kind, as it will be, to go and do likewise,
that their names may be famously en-
scrolled for ever and ever. Don’t you
think,” he suggested brightly, “that it’d
be a good lurk if the great war leaders’
epitaphs included in round figures the
number of skulls that festooned every
one of their bright ideas? ‘Douglas
Haig. His brightest idea : Passchendaele.
One day: 60,000 skulls. R.I.P.’ It’d
look good on a tombstone. Especially,
when you come to think, as you heroes
must with unqualified delight, that, after
all, it was the fellow who had the bright
idea of starving Fritz’s women and kids
who, in the words of the fabulists, ‘won
the war.’ ”
“Quite unconsciously, of course,” I in-
sisted, “every word you’ve said recom-
mends the study of Mr. Hart’s excellent
little work. What a fine thing it’d be if
this book were to be read by all those
who lately had the drums out —if they
haven’t still got ’em out —ready to rattle
us into another war.”
“Many of whom,” said devil at elbow
smilingly, “appropriately did their war-
drum-walloping from cosy pulpits. And
you think if all these made the time in
their busy lives to read our Hart it’d
influence them not to do that sort of
thing in future? You think our Hart’s
going to achieve what 158,762 other gas-
bags have demonstrably failed to do?
You think all my industrious drum-
wallopers, and the rest of homo sapiens
at large, will be so affected by the flour-
ish of our Hart’s lively antlers that my
old reliable yeasts won’t work in their
breasts any more?
“My dear ex-sapper,” he cried cheerily,
“a faith like yours ought to be bottled."
C. M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Murder in Mesopotamia: Agatha
Christie (Collins, Crime Club ; 7s. 6d.).
Another good one by about the best liv-
ing writer of mysteries, with Hercule
Poirot called in to untangle a careful bit
of murdering at an excavation party’s
headquarters. Warranted to entertain.
Belt of Suspicion : H. Russell Wake-
field (Crime Club ; from Dymock’s ; 65.):
Peeps into London’s night life garnished
with the latest slang. Attempts to poison
a beauteous heiress are foiled by a medi-
cal sleuth. Lesbianism gets frequent
mention.
Dick Spaanders: Ernest Wells (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.). A flamboyant tale
of high adventure, populated by pictur-
esque characters —Dirk Spaanders, the
boastful Dutchman who tells the yarn;
Captain Bess Tyddor, daughter of Henry
VIII., cheated of the throne and turned
pirate; Suleyman, the negro physician
and philosopher; Ironbroom, son of a
queen ; Chaplain Will Booley, master of
intrigue. Captain Bess uses a spot on the
coast of Australia, hard by where Dirk
Hartog’s plate was found, as a treasure
house.
BIOGRAPHY . . .
Portrait of T. E. Lawrence: Vyvyan
Richards (Cape ; Angus and Robertson ;
135.). Oxford contemporary and sub-
sequent close friend ransacks an interest-
ing memory for personalia that will con-
siderably enhance the legend of his and
many another’s hero of this age. Theme
is that T.E.’s “immortality must rest
upon his own portrait of himself; not
upon the events in which he acted, but
upon his presentation of them” in Seven
Pillars, which is closely examined.
TRAVEL . . .
Australia Through the Windscreen:
William Hatfield (Angus and Robertson ;
65.). Describes car tour round the conti-
nent. Excellent. See “Hatfield on Aus-
tralia,” p. 2.
GENERAL . . .
The Outline of War: Liddell Hart
(Faber and Faber ; ss. net). Brilliant
concise account of salient incidents of
the 1914-18 outing. See Satchel.
The American Ideal: Arthur Bryant
(Longmans; 165.), Biographical-historical
studies, tracing the outline of American
history with Jefferson, Lincoln, Emerson,
Whitman and others successively holding
the spotlight. Lecturish, but interesting.
Children’s Days in Japan: Tomotsu
Iwado (Maruzen Co., Tokio). Another,
and one of the prettiest, of the excellent,
charmingly illustrated brochures on
Japanese life put out by Nippon’s Tourist
Board. They must be among the love-
liest brochures ever printed. Sell here at
Is. 6d.
Various Verse
Only Your Face.
Only your lace before me
That I had drawn in kisses.
Wreathed in remembered blisses
Whitelv can reassure me
That the warm flesh my caress
Drew passion on
Is gone; out in the darkness
Gone.
Dream of your face in waking.
Wake to your face in dreaming,
Speak to your face in seeming:
Do you not hear me speaking?
O quiet indirterencc
That answer most:
Love’s lost; in the silence
Lost.
Smile in my dreams a blessing,
Speak that 1 be forgiven
Who have no fault unshriven
And have not been transgressing,
Save against love in thee,
In thee that never
Wavered ever, but loved me
Ever.
N.S.W'.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
Immortality.
The dream is over and the game played out.
And life, and all its loveliness, has passed
me by, , ,
E'en while I sought to grasp its shadowy
gleam , ...
That flashed in silhouette across the shining
sky.
And nothing but the sunset s red excess
Is left of all the golden autumn day.
Dark will be here, and, on its heels, the
night,
And life itself for ever passed away.
But if the shining dark and trembling stars.
Penultimate, blot out identity,
1 was the meteor-flash across the sky.
The Vital Spark, before I ceased to be!
1 gathered gold for immortality—
Gold of the earth, of sea and sun and sky;
And death’s cold kiss shall blend us one again.
And indestructible; sun and the earth —and 1.
MAORI I-AND.
E. MARY GURNEY.
Song of Later Love.
Love, since the dream which was mine
Bloomed for a space but to bear
Faith through fulfilment, though fair,
Doomed from the first to decline —
Soon from this siege shall resign
Hope which seems strengthless to dare,
Though the dim ghost of Despair
Sighs that the dream was divine.
Days there have been when my song
Strove with your silence in vain—
Days when your beauty’s disdain
Bade me be silent for long:
Yet, though you wrought me this wrong,
Naught save your sorcery’s stain
Stays with me now that again
Freedom hath rendered me strong.
Less were these thoughts to my mind
Once, when my dream could declare
Faith had not found you so fair
Were it not that you were kind.
Youth, which then held you enshrined.
Sang that such beauty should share
Space with the stars, and your hair
Flow like a flame on the wind.
Yet, with dead dreams for my dower,
I that am heir to the throne
Wrought not of hands, and unknown.
Save to the place of my power—
-1 that now sing ’neath your tower
Songs of the faith which hath flown—
I would yet make you my own.
Love, were it but for an hour.
For, though I seek now to find
Rest on the breast you may bare,
I that once named you the fair
Ere I had proved you unkind —
Love, not the less from my mind
Soon must the wonder you were
Fade like a flame in the air.
Pass like a cloud on the wind.
I do but ask, even so,
This —that you lean from your tower,
Yea, while your roses embower
Breasts that seem cold as the snow—
Lean down and learn, ere I go—
Though you should yield you this hour—
Love which could crown you with power,
Left me no faith to bestow.
TASMANIA.
ERIC MOORE.


I
a
'"'
m
■■lll
[■■■
IHhHlHmmHmh
■smu
■■i
■ ; : • .; ■:
I I
..I mmm
ll
I mmmm
MW
Hi ■
M-/ ' w VVV S'? '
w*
\
<
WM
I cf iff
||:
1
H -
bx -Mf
I
i
■
I :
mm
m
: wmmm
'vmm
MM
■■
■■■■■■■l
wmsmmm mm mm Mg «
i I iii«
'
BBiiliiM
■
m
:
'■■ r
■' - \
Wmmsm M '
|B|S' I V%v:; : S*p;r
HSraHMi''
ags <■:- sags S'#, V / A v A
■■■■ I I
V-- s
• ■■ .■; :
wM/}' * - N/< ‘
:
■
■ V; ■ -V ■ - .
JMBjIBII
i MiMpiiii i
HI
- i '*,"v ;;-
TMI
mxmm
H vv^l
« r,riU' ’
( «e ;
frigtea Wee'
flew CUe in
£veku
liotUe,/
TOOHEYS LTD.
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents;
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd , Melbourne
QUEENSLAND —Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA-—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
ip*
■ ■
>,
m
■
« r»~
> -r.
a*****-
a*,*****
gap
■» <8*
******
mmm**
m...
as*.**
1
>*
K
«#*
--'** v ■
ow*-
■ ■;
1
*
Some of the wine-filled casks waiting to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars.
v Ml£'


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2950,
August 26, 1936
AFTER SIX YEARS.
“Is that all you can think of?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 8797 J.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'Ail Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via Franc.e or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
JAPAN AND OUR WOOL.
In May, 1934, negotiations for a trade agreement were
proposed by the Japanese Government and accepted
in principle by the Goodwill Mission sent to Japan by
ihe Government, and headed by the gentleman
who had been Mr. Lyons’s first lieutenant. It is 18
months since the negotiations were begun, four months
since they were broken off, three months since restric-
tions were imposed on Japanese imports, and two
months since the Japanese retaliated with embargoes,
which Manchukuo has since copied.
During the financial year which closed on June 30
Japan was second on the list of Australia’s customers.
Now it is at the bottom, and goodwill has ceased to
be mentioned by the Great: Dailies of both countries.
It is no fault of the Goodwill Mission, but the gentle-
men who went to Tokio must be staggered when they
compare the position that existed in 1934 with the
position that exists now.
On July 24 Canberra complacently announced that
Japan was prepared to treat and that negotiations
“would probably be resumed in a few days.” On
August 17 the Prime Minister delivered a speech in
which Melbourne “Age” at the beginning of an article
discovered “strength and restraint, each in its fitting
place,” then remembered all of a sudden that his
Government has been guilty of “what threatened
to he an endless series of vacillations” and
“continues to stand on shifting sands of fresh
concessions”; in this broadcast effort he admitted
that there had been no resumption and blamed the
Japanese for the delay. But his Government has been
very dilatory on its own account. It has not denied
that the discussions were held up for months while
Mr. Gullett went off on his futile European tour. And
it delayed telling Parliament of its" manoeuvres and
plans until the session was closing and it was too late
for a debate, although it must have known three weeks
before what it was going to do. Its methods were so
slothful that it was without official information about
the Japanese retaliatory measures a .week after they
had been gazetted and published verbatim in every
important Japanese newspaper.
It is unusual for a Prime Minister to address the
public through a chain of broadcasting stations on his
Government’s relations with another Government. The
thing has an appearance of candor, but actually in
this case candor has been lacking: neither before nor
since the accomplished fact was presented to Parlia-
ment have the people been taken into the Govern-
ment’s confidence. Yet it has been asserted, so far
without contradiction, that information withheld from
Parliament and the people has been divulged to the
representatives of a justly dissatisfied section, evidently
to silence criticism which had become awkward.
In his presidential address to the Westralian
Primary Producers’ Association, Mr. J. S. Teasdale
said at Perth on August 11—and five Federal members,
supporters of the Government, were among the
listeners: —•
Woolgrowers have been seriously concerned as to
the effect on prices at the forthcoming sales should
Japan withdraw from the market... .The subject was
discussed at the Australian Woolgrowers’ Council meet-
ing in June, at which you were represented by Mr.
Hitchins.
Mr. Hitchins had been “seriously concerned” to
the extent of saying that “Bradford threatened us with
much more drastic treatment than Japan has done ;
the Australian people are again to be sacrificed to
Bradford”:
Mr. Gullett gave details of the reasons for the Gov-
ernment policy, and outlined the progress of negotia-
tions. He asked the organisations there present to
avoid public controversy pending finalisation of the
negotiations.
But, Mr. Teasdale proceeded, “the negotiations
have been more protracted than expected, resulting in
another meeting of the Woolgrowers’ Council at Mel-
bourne in July”:
On this occasion the Prime Minister personally
discussed the matter with the council for some hours.
The confidential information and documents displayed
to the woolgrowers by Mr. Lyons were instrumental
in relieving woolgrowers’ minds to a considerable
degree. Naturally, it is impossible at this stage to
make public the information presented. Mr. Lyons
repeated the request for avoidance of public con-
noversy until the negotiations are finalised.
It is a truly amazing development of the
“hush-hush” policy, and more will be heard ot it when
Parliament is in session again. Mr. Teasdale was not
present “on this occasion,” but unless he dreamt the
whole thing at least one recipient of the “confidential
information” passed it on to him, resulting in my
belief that the negotiations are on the way to more
favorable finalisation than was thought at one stage.
In sober truth there have been no “negotiations since
the Whiskard-Gullett tariff was introduced on May 22.
Australia now faces the new wool season, along
with some unfortunate facts. Last season 2,799,000
bales of Australian wool were sold ; compared with the
1934-35 season, turnover was down 223,000 bales, but
return was up £11,092,000 Australian. Britain bought
29 p.c. of the wool, as against 33 p.c. the year before ;
Japan bought 24 p.c. as against 21 p.c.
Japan is now out of the market, sitting on some-
thing like 400,000 bales of wool and wool rag, which
may meet its internal requirements for nine months.
If their “national honor,” as the London “Financial
News” puts it, means more to ihe Japanese than price,
they can get a good deal ot wool suitable for their
needs in Maoriland, and more in S’Africa. Maoriland s
annual output is about 500,000 bales. At the opening
sale of crutchings and fleece wool at Wellington,
Japanese competition pushed prices up to a record
level. From S’Africa and South America the Japanese
can get other supplies. It is necessary for the public
(o look facts in the face if the Government won't.
Australian sales open with the August 31-Sep-
tember 10 series in Sydney. There will be about
3,036,000 bales in the market during the season—
about 3 p.c. more than last season’s offerings. About
2i million bales will go to auction, 1,420,000 bales
before Christmas. Normally, the position would be
very safe statistically, but with Japan out —and it is
positively stated at Tokio that “the Ministry of Com-
merce and the wool interests have jointly decided not
to send buyers to the new-season’s sales” —it is a hardy
prophet who would be optimistic.
European shortages and tops prices suggest that
there will be no immediate heavy fall in prices. Ques-
tions that vex growers are: (1) With the Japanese
absent will other buyers “put their heads together”?
(2) Will wool for which the Japanese have hitherto
been almost the only buyers be sold at all? (3) Or
will the Japanese buy indirectly until their position is
sound for the year and then withdraw and let the
market flop?
In the pass to which things have come the sooner
Parliament meets the better. A precise and detailed
statement should then be insisted upon—that and a
full-dress debate, out of which may come proposals for
a settlement, such as the relegation of the duties which
have caused all the trouble to the “deferred” list. And
Parliament should make it crystal-clear that it will no
longer tolerate government behind closed doors or
reduction of its status to that of a mere machine for
the registering of Cabinet decisions.
Collier Resigns.
Westralia has a new Labor Premier —John Collings
Willcock. He is an earnest Labor politician, and has
been an industrious administrator; but in Parliament
and on the platform he was overshadowed by Philip
Collier, and, at 57, he is unlikely to equal his old
chief’s record.
Mr. Collier must be accounted the most success-
ful Labor politician of the post-war age. Premier
for upwards of nine years altogether, he won two
general elections as Premier, a feat not rivalled in
any other State, even in Queensland. Yet his party
was a ruin when he became its leader 19 years ago.
Of all the Labor parties disrupted by the war,
Westralian Labor suffered most. The conscription
campaign cost it most of its best-known men, includ-
ing Mr, vScaddan, who had been Premier for five
years, and five of the six Senators, and it split some
of the principal unions. The conscriptionists called
Ihemselves “National Labor.” Mr. Collier remained
with “Official Labor.” The overwhelming success
of the Westralian conscriptionists at the two referenda
reacted against Official Labor at the 1917 election,
and a police-court prosecution, the consequence
of some perhaps indiscreet remarks magnified or
misconstrued in the fierce passions of the time, added
to the new leader’s cares —without embittering him.
vSome of the rank and file of Official Labor were
for expelling all conscriptionists, as they were expelled
in other States. Mr. Collier stood for conciliation
and had his way. He thus succeeded in retaining
the services of Assemblymen who had taken the
platform for conscription, and promoted them
when the opportunity came. Others preferred to
join with the Liberals in forming the Nationalist party,
leaving only one Labor group and organisation in
Ihe field.
As war animosities died down, Mr. Colliers party
regained much of its old strength. Nationalist sins
of commission and omission, particularly the neglect
to alter the electoral boundaries, which favored the
goldfields, helped considerably ; all the same, it was
1924 before Labor found itself on the Treasury
benches again. By 1927 the A.L.P. was appealing to
the electors with the slogan “Keep Collier Premier.”
And after a reverse in 1930 —a period fatal to every
Australian Government that had to go to the country,
except McPhee’s in Tasmania—the cry “Make Collier
Premier Again” was found effective in 1933.
Seldom does a Labor organisation pay such
compliments to a leader. In this case they were
justified. . .
A moderate in the best sense, Mr. Collier gamed
and held for his party thousands of votes that —after
one experience, at all events —another kind of Labor
leader would have scared away. And his moderation
was no cloak for timidity.
He was the first Labor leader to repudiate
Langism (“I am certain that I speak for the whole
Labor movement of this State when I say it is utterly
opposed to the Lang policy, root and branch”) ; and
not only did he keep it out of Westralia but he gave
steady support to the measures designed to scotch
it and get Australia out of the 1931 mess. And ne
was very adroit in his dealings with his friends the
enemy. From some political opponents he extracted
lavish —too lavish —loans and grants, and another he
established in Government House, thereby quietly
solving a problem which has baffled Mr. Forgan
Smith. And if it seemed at the time that he was
allowing secession too much rope, in the end h
hanged itself.
No plaster saint this Collier, but an able Par.ia-
mentarian and public servant.
Douglas Credit.
“A.E.T.” (Yenda, N.S.W.) writes:
“A.D.” in B. 29/7/’36 asks “Why Not a Useful Craze?
and uses this caption as a scourge for Douglas Social Credit
and its disciples. I am not one, as yet. But Douglasism does
hold out some hope to me; whereas the present system offers
neither recovery from the pit into which it threw me nor hope
of anything else.
“A.D.” says trade cycles mean fat years and lean years
“it has always been nature's way.'’ That isn't true. Nature,
taking the whole world over, produces in any year and every
year sufficient for all.
The present financial system, which apparently is insepar-
able from trade cycles, does through the cycle present me
with fat years and lean years so far as money is concerned.
It sometimes gives more money than is required to buy the
necessities of life, and sometimes gives me too little; but the
goods are always there whether there is too little or too mucii
money. It is money that fails, not (he goods. Surely a better-
system than that can be found.
I am a farmer who, 10 years ago, bought 1500 acres of
land. Two hundred acres was cleared, the rest was forest.
Ten years later it was all fenced and subdivided. All this
means that its productive capacity in goods has been at least
quadrupled. But in money, on a valuation made by a Govern-
ment authority, it is worth £lOOO less than it was when I
bought it 10 years ago with the aid (and approval) of a
Government bank. I am hopelessly ruined. In that I am
not alone; there arc thousands of others to whom the phrases
of “returning prosperity” and “Australia’s wonderful recovery
are burning, bitter gibes.
My land is worth more, ever so much more, in things
for men and women to eat and to clothe their bodies. The
monetary system that says it is worth less must be a lie.
How can any system be good which alternately lifts men
to prosperity (so called) and then flings them to the depth ol
want and despair?
“A.D.” says, “When lean times arrive, those unprepared
generally suffer severely.” Would he blame all those youths
leaving school during the depression years for being “unpre-
pared”? What preparation does he think, a man on the basic
wage with a young family could make? Could I and all my
compeers in primary industries be called unprepared because
wc had invested our all in our properties and had had no
time nor chance to acquire reserves?
“Why Not a Useful Craze?” Well, the Douglas Credit
followers want to abolish the poverty and misery brought
about by the depression, and they have a craze to abolish
such poverty, and a damn’ good craze, too. If “A.D. " can
find a better or more useful craze, let him trot it out.
I am neither an accountant nor an economist, and there-
fore cannot lay bare the faults of the Douglas system nor
praise its virtues, but the fact that it proclaims that such
depressions are unnecessary and sets up the ideal of the
abolition of poverty must be all to the good.
The writer of the article replies:
When one begins arguing on currency theories the argu-
ment, like the music, is liable to go “round and round, "
until the debaters are excited and red about the ears. I’ve
been through that myself. I am an accountant, and have
delved deeply into currency theory—not only Douglas's, but
almost as many varieties as Heinz’s. _ „
1 am aware of the unpleasant results which A.E.I.
says accompany unstable money —money of fluctuating buying-
power. But 1 have yet to learn of any currency system capable
of controlling trade cycles. To seek a money-system all-
powerful in the matter of regulating human actions is like
looking for perpetual motion.
1 have yet to have it proved to me that currency, rather
than trade (the business actions of individuals collectively),
causes depressions. So long as people seek to gain big and
easy advantages over other people—and speculators throughout
the world making parasitical profits out of share-, land-, grain-
and other commodity-dealings number millions so long shall
we have trade cycles. Wild speculation almost invariably
precedes depression panics. “A.E. I. bought his land during
the borrowing boom of the 'twenties.
As regards nature and its vagaries, I stick to the fat-and-
lean argument. Why, at the moment, is wheat at a price quite
out of keeping with other commodity prices? Simply because
there has been a bad world harvest, and reserves will be drawn
P The Douglas “system” relies on the socialisation of credit
and on Government control of prices. 1 should like to ask
“A E T ” if he has ever heard of Government intervention in
trade’or commerce that did not result in high prices which
bred still higher prices (inflation) or overcapitalisation and
bankruptcy. , ~ , tt . .
It is claimed that the Douglas system can abolish social
debt taxation and poverty. ’ If it can do all that in Australia
it must be able to do it anywhere: truth is universal. Does
anyone believe that “all the good things of life can be
bestowed on the Chinese through this or any other financial
jugglery?
“A.E.T.” seems principally disgusted with the present
“financial system” (as he chooses to call it). Very well.
Finance and trade are perhaps second only in their confusion
to the present mess-up in Europe. But so long as human
nature permits (and urges) wasteful speculation. Government
extravagance and war, so long shall we have trade and mone>
troubles, within a country and without it. ...
Stable money? By all means let our nation and all
nations strive for it. But it won t come by a stroke of a
pen or the running of a printing press; it calls for stability
of human actions. . , . , .
Do I think a man with a family on the basic wage could
make preparation against depression? Not a great deal. He
might keep free of liabilities, though, and if there were an
adequate national unemployment reserve a reserve created in
the boom years to take care of the bad ones—basic-wage-
earners could be provided for. By taking away some of the
spending-power existing during a boom, and releasing it during
a slump, much more even credit conditions should result.
Such a method has been advocated in The Bulletin, and
H E. P. Bracey, of Lithgow (N.S.W.), was congratulated bv
the chairman of the Banking Commission on putting forward
a Sl “Smme U d Sg up! lo fi n nance, as a handmaiden,to trade will not
rectify unhealthy trading methods. It has been developing
as a servant over the past 150 years, and is capable of greate;
development still; but many of its services have been nullified
by freakish trading methods, stupendous Government waste and
war. Those are sins wc have to pay tor. Our collective
monetary sins and excesses will always find us out, and the
innocent suiter with the guilt).


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Short of a Businessman.
The cry “We want businessmen in politics” can be
overdone ; but Australia sorely needs two or three
businessmen in the Cabinet at Canberra. They would
have been of priceless advantage in the negotiations
with Japan.
Those negotiations were entrusted in the first
place to Mr. Guilett, who was a newspaperman. Mr.
Lyons, a school-teacher for 14 years and a politician
for 28 years, put the matter in the newspaperman’s
hands, and the other Ministers three lawyers, a
doctor, two elderly politicians, another who was secre-
tary of party organisations for 24 years, two farmers,
an accountant and a gentleman who was “a political
liaison officer” for seven years—acquiesced. And
the one Minister who has had any sort of business
training, the manufacturer who is Minister for Trade
and Customs, raised no objection, even when he was
pointedly kept out of the way.
So we find the newspaperman entering upon the
discussions with the Japanese and then breaking them
off for nine or ten months to go abroad. On his
return he continues his desultory pourparlers, and
contrives to make the other party so suspicious that
the other party buys all the wool he can get in readi-
ness for the trouble that to him is obviously coming.
The result is that the imposing of restrictions on his
export trade with Australia finds him thoroughly
prepared.
Since May 23 the other party has refused to do
business on the basis vouchsafed to him by the gentle-
men who introduced the restrictions. He refuses also
to show his hand or to surrender the initiative, though
the school-teacher turned politician has implored him
again and again, in perhaps the strangest broadcast
speeches ever made, to do one thing or the other.
Mr. Lyons and Mr. Guilett cannot understand
Japan’s attitude. There is probably not a business-
man in Australia who fails to understand it.
On the Bogong High Plains.
Victorian bush- and mine-workers are never found
wanting when lives are in peril and they can help.
Three skiers making for Mt. Bogong across the
snow lost their way in a blizzard. Turning back in
tearful weather, they lost their sleeping-bags, and the
little food they had left. They were trying to reach
Tawonga, to the west, but they found themselves in
Big River Valley, on the east. Here, when they were
eight days out, the eldest of the three collapsed, and it
was decided that the youngest should remain with
him, and that the other should try to push on to the
little township of Glen Valley. It took him two days
to struggle there, and he arrived frostbitten, famished,
half-dead.
It was late on a Sunday night when the news was
brought to Glen Valley. Daylight found every avail-
able man in the district pushing forward in bitter
weather over some of the wildest country in Australia
towards the spot where the skier said he had left
his mates.
Work was stopped at the Maude and Yellow
Girl mine to enable the miners to engage in rescue
operations. Lads joined the parties; women chopped
wood and prepared food.
All day long the search went on and part of the
next day. Then a party of bush men, two of whom
had set out on horseback but had had to join the foot-
sloggers—the country was “too precipitous, rocky and
heavily timbered” for horses —found the two men, firing
a charge of gelignite which was recognised as a signal
and answered by the younger man. He was frostbitten
and lame. His partner was delirious.
Stretchers were improvised from saplings, oilskins
and waterproofs. Country and weather were such
that the return journey took 33 hours ; the route lay
through dense scrub and across great gullies and
ravines and icy streams. Drenched with rain as well
as river water, the rescuers camped out. Next morn-
ing other rescuers arrived to help in carrying the
stretchers to Glen Valley. The delirious man had had
to be held down on his stretcher. He was too far
gone, and he died that night. His companion lives.
“In Switzerland,” the secretary of the Omeo
District Association has written, “such a rescue would
be made by professional guides, whose interest and
duty it is to help tourists. In this case the work was
done by men who left their own work, regardless of
personal risk and loss.” “Simple service, simply
given”; true democracy in action. How vain the
efforts of fanatics ulcerated with Old-World hatreds
to separate the Australian people into classes and stir
up a frenzied fratricidal war such as is raging in
Spain!
Lonqism Answered.
Six years ago Australian finance was going to the
bad at the rate of nearly £26,500,000 a year. Revenue
accounts for 1935-36 were more than a million to the
good.
States’ deficits of £2,440,000 were set off by a Com-
monwealth surplus of £3,560,000, giving a net surplus
of £1,120,000. Actually the revenue surplus was
more than £10.000,000 because the seven Governments
paid £9,000,000 into the national sinking fund.
The improvement began with the Premiers’ Plan,
which dates from 1931-32:
Commonwealth and State Budgets.
Commonwealth States’ Total
Losses. Losses. Losses.
19)9-30 .. .. £1,500,000 £8.800,000 £10,300,000
1930- .. .. 10,800,000 15,500,000 26,300,000
Surpluses.
1931- .. .. 1,300,000 20,800,000 19,500,000
1932- .. .. 3,500,000 8,100,000 4,600,000
1933- .. .. 1,300,000 6,800,000 .5,500,000
1934- ..■ .. 710,000 3,300,000 2,590,000
Net surplus.
1935- .. .. 3,560,000 2,440,000 1,120,000
South Australia and Westralia showed surpluses
in 1935-36. N. S. Wales had the biggest actual loss,
£1,687,261, but it represented a reduction of upwards
of a million, whereas the Queensland deficit, £741,815,
was nearly £200,000 more than for the previous finan-
cial year. The Victorian debit balance was £115,000
—only nominal considering the great turnover in that
State.
All the States are spending borrowed money,
and some are spending too much. And nearly all
are now taxing too much. But to the end of
June budgetary accounts had improved by nearly
£28,000,000 compared with 1931. In addition, nearly
£200,000,000 of London debt has been converted at an
interest saving of just under £4,000,000 a year. Surely
this is Australia’s answer to’ Langism. Honesty is
the best policy.
What We Can and Can't Do.
To London “Daily Telegraph’s” first Commonwealth
supplement, published in June, Professor Giblin,
of Melbourne, contributed a four-column article
headed “Australia Now a Manufacturing Nation.”
It is an excellent study of our internal and overseas
trade position, though for some mysterious reason
U.A.P. dailies have ignored it. It gets down to bed-
rock. For example:
The overseas debt on account of land development
....may be put at £450,000,000, bearing interest of
£20,000,000 a year, or £3 per head of population. No
other country, except Maoriland, has fixed external
claims of anything approaching this size.... The total
paid by consumers and taxpayers in Australia to sup-
port farm production is now of the same order of
magnitude as that paid in support of factory produc-
tion. The latter is steadily diminishing; farm subsidies
are likely to hold their ground.
The statements are correct and the comment is
straightforward.
Again,
The value of our exports is about £100,000,000
sterling, and no rise of prices seems likely that will
bring in steadily greater returns. The volume cannot be
increased without further threat to prices or danger of
import restrictions on the other side.
After paying external interest, etc.,
we are left with only £60,000,000 for imports, and that
will buy little more than half our imports before 1929.
Clearly, we must make things ourselves or go with-
out. We cannot pay for more imports than we are
taking. We cannot, in fact, continue to pay for imports
at the present level.
The Professor goes on to point out —as this paper
has pointed out repeatedly—that overseas interest
payments control our importing position: that on
mutual balance British imports from Australia must
average £30,000,000 more than exports, and that no
trade agreements, taken by and large, can alter
Australia’s position with regard to imports.
Goodwill is at the mercy of facts, and the facts of
the trade balance, even apart from the pressure of
unemployment, forbid an increase of imports over the
level set by export prices.
Mr, Menzies seems ready to accept this con-
clusion, but, judging by their recent speeches, the
Prime Minister, the Minister for No Trade Treaties
and the Assistant-Minister for Commerce have little
use for it.
Taxes Can Be Cut.
The Commonwealth Government announced a 1935-36
surplus of £3,500,000. It should have been £5,000,000,
for actual expenditure was £78,640,000 against an
estimate of £77,100,000.
The rise in wheat prices has changed the budgetary
position for the better; the Budget will be relieved
of the heavy annual burden of payments for wheat
relief. Last financial year £600,000 was paid out of
general revenue for this purpose. Add this to the
surplus of £3,500,000 and deduct the £500,000 already
promised to the Slates, and £3,600,000 is available
for extra defence expenditure and for tax-reduction.
Add again the £1,500,000 which need not be over-
spent this year and we get more than £5,000,000.
On this basis sales tax could be cut by one per
cent, at a nominal revenue loss of £1,800,000 ; petrol
taxation could be reduced by Id. a gallon, thus
lightening a grievous impost on transport, and
£2,000,000 would still be left for increased defence
votes and for reduction of the excise on beer (still
Is. 9d. a gallon) and of primage—another “temporary”
impost born of the depression, which will remain as
long as the public is prepared to pay it.
Experience has shown that the revenue loss result-
ing from reduced taxation is much below paper calcu-
lations because of the increased business activity which
follows. For instance, despite tax remissions and
expenditure concessions estimated at over £10,000,000
a year, tax-revenue in 1934-35 was nearly £3,000,000
greater than in 1932-33 before the remissions oper-
ated, and it has risen greatly since. Sales tax alone
last year was a record at £9,400,000, though the rate
has been reduced by one per cent, and the range of
exemptions has been widened.
■ Federal revenue in 1935-36 at £82,203,000 was
much the greatest ever received by a Commonwealth
Treasurer, exceeding the previous year’s peak by
£6,000,000. This will go on as long as the taxpayers
will stand i(.
Senator Canute and Fish.
After years of delay, the Commonwealth Develop-
ment Branch, headed by Senator McLachlan, has
remembered its plan for the development of the fishing
industry, “embracing the preservation, marketing and
distribution of fish.”
The Government has accepted the tender of the
Melbourne Harbor Trust for the construction of a
research vessel. This is a practical step towards the
long-delayed exploitation of Australia’s fisheries
wealth. Senator McLachlan had the fantastic notion
that ’planes should be used for the detection of shoal
fish. But stormy waters are not going to become
smooth at all times to suit the convenience of the
Development Branch, which admits that fish cannot
be detected from a ’plane unless the water is unruffled.
It sounds like the old story of Canute in a modern
guise.
Australia, with waters known to be teeming with
edible fish, imported a million sterling of sea-food in
1935-36. Per head of population, Australians eat
only 131 b, of fish a year compared with 421 b. per
head consumed in England. If we ate as much fish
relatively as the people of England our home con-
sumption of this necessary and beneficial food would
amount to £7,000,000 or £8,000,000 a year.
The Australian fish industry is crude, disorganised
and inefficient; it is ill-equipped, backward and
perverse. An asset which in other countries yields
great wealth has been worse than neglected ; it has
been spoiled. Indifference to the future requirements
of the nation has endangered the supply of some
varieties of our fish which have won world fame.
Unless better control and more knowledge are applied
to the business, the snapper schools, the shoals of
flounder, sole, black bream, mullet and other varieties
prized in other countries will go where the “silver
hordes” of American rivers and the bison herds of
American prairies have gone.
The silds or sardines which are the basis of great
Scandinavian and Mediterranean industries and the
whitebait which nets Maoriland a tidy sum are known
to exist in abundance in Australian waters, but Aus-
tralia eats imported sardines and whitebait. The
turtle-canning industry of North Queensland and
North Westralia has been suspended or abandoned.
The wonderful scallop beds of the Derwent are being
destroyed by motor-boat dredging. In short, an atmo-
sphere of incompetence and carelessness broods over
the whole fishing industry.
It is better for a muddling Government to do
something about it than to have nothing done at all,
but it would be better still if the Government con-
centrated on an intelligent campaign to interest private
capital in the industry. There is too much stinking
fish about Government enterprise in Australia already.
Australia Demands the Best.
The Salmond air-defence scheme, conceived eight
years ago and brought forth after much labor by the
Commonwealth Government in 1934, seems to be
definitely dead. The Government has decided to
launch a new Plan.
The present force of Australian aircraft numbers
40 Moths for training—for fighting they would be of
little more use than real moths —30 Wapitis and
Bulldogs, some Southampton and Seagulls—all of
small value in combat with modern ships. To these
have been added seven Seagull amphibians of more
modern vintage and one or two odds and ends.
Two years ago 48 Hawker Demons were ordered.
A couple of squadrons have been delivered, a couple
more are still on their way. They have a speed a little
over 220 m.p.h., and have been outmoded by the
Hawker Fury, which in turn is being pushed out by
a new Hawker monoplane and by three Vickers
fighters. It is claimed for the Vickers Spit-
fire I. that it can outfly and outcarry in bomb-
loading the latest Hawker. Its speed is a secret,
but, as the speed of the newest Hawker is
well over 300 m.p.h., it can be imagined. It was
designed by R. J. Mitchell, the man who built the
Schneider Cup machines—one of which, with Stain-
forth at the controls, did 406 m.p.h.—and it is reported
officially that “the advantage of the Spitfire over the
Schneider machines is immediately apparent.”
Presumably as a result of protests against delays,
British concerns have found themselves able to let
us have 36 Avro Ansons. These are twin-engined
bombers of a type adopted in Britain for coast defence
in 1935. Specifications of the latest bomber types
put the Ansons, with their 160 m.p.h. and stay-
frame construction, out of date. The newest are the
Wellesley and a twin-engined bus. This is built on
the geodetic plan, and it can carry “an enormous
load of bombs over long distances.” Loaded only
with fuel and crew, it has a range of 8000 miles, which
is 2500 miles more than the standing straight-line
long-distance record. And its speed is said to be a
revelation, and its silence in operation a nightmare
for unsuspecting enemies.
Other types of fighters and bombers which out-
range, outload and outspeed anything which Australia
owns or has ordered are in production for the British
Air Force.
Mr. Parkhill will have to wake up suddenly.
Defence is becoming a live question again, and in
the matter of machines Australians will be satisfied
with nothing but the best.
Vacuum-cleaners First.
“Country Pit).” : Four hundred Victorian State
schools are now equipped with radio sets. Some
of the bigger schools have added public-address
systems, so that the H.T. can address all classrooms
at once, and gramophone records can play stirring
march tunes for general assemblies. (Of course, the
Education Department has not footed the bill —hard-
working mothers’ clubs and school committees have
raised the required funds.) It is all to the good
certainly, but wouldn’t it be better to introduce
modern cleansing systems first?
State schools are not properly cleaned. To sweep
the floor with a straw broom every evening, and to
rub the resultant dust back on the floor from off
desks, tables and shelves afterwards (as is done every
day), is not cleaning out a school. Only three times a
year, at the end of each term, are schools scrubbed
out, walls brushed down and the thick collection of
dust removed from the tops of cupboards and behind
pictures. No wonder epidemics of measles, influenza,
whooping-cough and colds sweep through a school
with startling rapidity when they start. Before wire-
less sets should come vacuum-cleaners.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Chaunter”; It was the periodical
Westralian goldfields hunt for the lost
child ; and it had to be quick, for the
time was midsummer, and two days was
the limit without water. Jamie McAffer
joined in the search. He couldn’t walk
very far, for he was rising 60 and
sported a paunch. But on every hilltop
he started up the pipes, sending the
pibroch far and wide. It did the trick.
Far away the frantic youngster, alter-
nately running and walking in quite the
wrong direction, caught the skirl and
turned back. And even after he had
been brought in McAffer played a tune
or two just to guide eager but not bush-
wise searchers who themselves might
have needed a search party.
“Findy”: Every great discovery or in-
vention has its drawbacks as well as its
advantages. The motor-car brings with
it the speed hog; the talkies inflict the
crooner on us; and the radio fills our
drawing-rooms with advertisements.
Now people on their way to work are in
danger of being puzzled, then arrested,
then deafened by a voice coming down
from the heavens announcing that
Blank’s Great Sale is about to commence,
f feel sure the Wrights never intended
the aeroplane to be used for a purpose
like this. The innovation suggests a
whole lot of horrible possibilities, and if
the idea is persevered with there will soon
be not a minute of the day free from
some raucous announcement from
regions supernal. The inescapability of
the nuisance will be its worst feature.
One can always switch off the wireless,
and one is not forced to read newspaper
ads., but the powerful voice from the
air forces its way into locked rooms and
will not be denied. After one hearing I
have come to the conclusion that it was
not by the use of bombs that Italy de-
feated Abyssinia, but that the continual
din of “Eat Mario’s Macaroni,” “Buy
Benetto’s Beans” and so on, broadcast
from the skies, harassed the Ethiopians
into submission.
“Exdig”: I was with a party near the
light-trolley track in Brandenmolen
when over the crest came three trolley-
loads of mustard-gassed Diggers. They
were bandaged —faces, heads and hands,
sometimes feet—in a grotesque way, with
only zinc ointment showing on the facial
areas unbandaged. They induged in all
sorts of antics, shouting merrily that they
were the Hot-as-Mustard Vaudeville
Party on the way for a season in Blighty.
Something like a group of White-eyed
Kaffirs they looked, too ; and we had to
laugh with them as we wished them a
long season. When, some months later,
I was at the Canadian Hospital at Bou-
logne there was also present a boy who
moaned continually with the pain of a
gas-burned body: a nurse told me of
three Australians who, she said, were
worse burned. One of them told her he
could never eat a lobster again because
he felt that a boiled lobster was his
brother. Likely enough these three were
of the Brandenmolen party.
“Trusty”: Commissions? I have had
two. Both reached me years after the
reason for their issue had ceased, and
one was tinderstamped. This followed
me to the wilds of Papua, and was an
Imperial one, countersigned by old King
Edward himself, as was the custom in
those days. I particularly treasure this
one because the royal signature closely
resembles my own on a cheque the morn-
ing after the night before.
“8.C.8.”; My cousin Lucy sang to a
crowded audience in the church hall at
the concert given to welcome the new
bishop. Of course Lucy should have
worn a petticoat; at least, she should
have made sure of those press-studs down
the side. But she is a very hearty woman,
and her top notes are full of vim. It was
in the middle of a really deep breath that
“I say , old boy, what's this about the deck sports being postponed?"
the press-studs gave up the unequal
battle, parted sorrowfully, and let the
skirt drop to the stage. But Lucy is an
artist, if nothing else; her sonorous
melody went on without a break, her
large eyes fixed on the middle ceiling.
As the singer’s legs were unveiled so
dramatically, the intense, well-bred up-
take of several hundred breaths sounded
like the soughing of an autumn breeze.
But ho one laughed, and Lucy, her song
finished, moved, tripped, stooped, and,
skirt in hand, disappeared into the wings.
“S.T.S.”: The R.C. Guild of Social
Studies in Adelaide has arranged
a “Tribute” to G. K. Chesterton, and
will buy his complete works. D. P.
McGuire called him “a revolutionary
and a leader.” Another speaker com-
pared him with St. Thomas More. How
surprised G.K.C. would have been!
“Glider”: Illustrated papers are mak-
ing much of the sand-ski-ing on Bribie
Island (Q.). It is supposed to be some-
thing quite new, but in the late ’nineties
it was one of our sports at the old Bris-
bane Grammar. There was a bank in
the playgrounds, leading down to
Gregory-terrace. A few pints of water
judiciously sprinkled made a ski-slide of
that; the more it was used the better it
worked. Our skis were any old pieces of
6 by 1 or similar wood. There were
accidents, of course, - lamentable and
otherwise: boys in a hurry aren’t parti-
cular about an odd nail or two, and as
golf wasn’t common then they hadn’t
learnt to call “Fore” ere they started a
run. But it was good going while it
lasted. I remember old Jimmy Cowan,
that best-loved of masters, shedding his
dignity one day. It didn’t last long.
Parents may have complained about torn
trousers —I know mine did —and that ski-
run was closed, never to open again dur-
ing my time.
“L.W.”: A Spaniard would be hard to
find in an Australian fish-and-chip shop
(B. 5/8/’36). Almost all such enterprises
are staffed by Greeks, and to confuse the
Spaniard with the Greek is as absurd as
confusing the Chinese with the Japanese.
Of the 500-odd Spaniards in our Eastern
States, a big proportion are in the Innis-
fail (N.Q.) district, and it is rare to find
one who isn’t thriving. Here, as else-
where, the Greeks stick to the towns, hard
work on the land having no attractions
for them.
“Don Ogemawsko”: Anyone looking
for Spaniards in this country is advised
to pay a visit to Mena Creek, about 10
miles from Innisfail (N.Q.). There he
will find a Spaniard living in a castle
right beside the waterfall. The Spaniard
built the castle himself at a cost of many
thousands.
“Nif”: An old-established Melbourne
restaurant belongs to a Spanish family.
The litting-up of a modern lounge pushed
the dining-room so far back that diners
in the rear part have a view of kitchen
operations. It gives one a shock to see
slim, white-garbed youths with the grace
and dignity of Castilian knights cutting
up salad vegetables and peeling spuds.
“Ike Hollar”: The Lost Ten Tribes
theory or something very like it is much
more ancient than “Misti Bish” (B.
5/ 8 / ’36) contends. The “stone of David”
brought from Scone, Scotland, holds its
place under the royal throne of Britain ;
with it is associated the legend that it was
used for the coronation of the Kings of
Israel, also the tradition that the Kings
of England may claim descent from
David himself. Queen Victoria was very
partial to that theory.
"Piou-Piou”; To me the most hor-
rible break in the film “Under Two
Flags” (B. 19/8/’36) was the conversion
of the vivandiere Cigarette into a
cabaret trollop. The vivandiere was the
most colorful figure in French military
history. She originated with the women
followers of the Republican armies, and
received official recognition as a sort of
first-aid helper to regimental surgeons,
while she also dispensed medical com-
forts as a sideline. She has inspired
many a French story and at least one
opera, “The Daughter of the Regiment.”
The vivandiere lasted over the Crimea
into the Algerian wars; the slaughter of
1870 seems to have been responsible for
her abolition.
“Ancient Greek”: Another difference
between the old and the new Olympiads.
Professor Mahaffy says that in classical
times all the booths about the course
were filled with idlers and pleasure-
mongers, the scum of Greek society.
Tumbling, thimble-rigging and fortune-
telling made Olympia—apparently —
something like an old-fashioned Derby
meeting. He adds that when drinking
parties of young men began in the even-
ing there was probably a touch of Donny-
brook Fair thrown in. It seems unlikely
that the negroes and Germans who
cleaned up the eleventh Olympiad
will be known to posterity in the same
enduring way as were those Greek
athletes. The fame of such as Phayllus
of Kroton still lives —but how many re-
member who Dorando was, or what he
did in the Olympiad held in England
before the war?
“Waihi”: Coaldust does blacken
miners’ lungs (B. 19/8/’36), but it has
an aseptic value for cuts: miners’ abra-
sions heal cleanly and quickly. After
healing, it shows through the skin like
tracings of blue veins.
“Kriz”: The joke is on the “Colonel’
(B. 12/8/’36). Purity Villa is in the main
street of Wyndham (W.A.). It is occu-
pied each August by the crowd who
follow the race meetings held at that time
of the year at Halls Creek, Wyndham,
and Victoria River depot. They are far
from virtuous, I can assure you. I used
to be one of ’em.
* * =i= *
“Pons”: Rev. T. E. Veritas, a Sydney
divine and journalist, is at outs with
the A.8.C., which was wont to fill
in a dull hour on Sabbath mornings by
broadcasting the cleric’s harangues. It
seems that, standing amid the alien corn
near his Pitt-street church, the minister
heard broadcast proving clearly that
a boss of the Commission was sink-
ing cocktails with the conductor of a
jazz band. This was smitten hip and thigh
over the air from the Pitt-street pulpit
on the ensuing Sunday—and the rev. gent,
has said his last mouthful over the
A.B.C.’s network. Meanwhile the A.B.C.
has an even livelier entertainment rum-
pus on hand. The Taits complain that
it imports artists of tonnage, osten-
sibly to delight listeners from its
studios, but in reality for platform
fees, thus robbing the legitimate pur-
veyors of overseas music. The Com-
mission has tartly rejoined that it will do
what it darn well likes; the Taits, it says,
import only so few decent singers that
a starving nation has to rely for good
music on its wireless sets. It’s all a little
confusing; but in the meantime I sup-
pose we listeners will continue to pay
out a guinea a year to hear 20 minutes
of music—and the worst 20 minutes —
from such people as Eileen Joyce and
Pinza, while the A.B.C. pockets revenue
for unbroadcast programmes two hours
in length.
“Musquash”: Nothing surprising
about weight-lifting Egyptians (B.
12/8/’36). The workers who handle
the water lifts or “shadoofs” along the
Bahr Yusef Canal are the most power-
fully-built class the writer has ever seen.
They are a people apart, and live in their
own villages on the canal, lifting the water
in as many as three or four hoists night
or day, according as it is run into the
canal at Assouan. In their leisure
hours they are a turbulent, lawless lot.
regular contributors to Egypt’s calendar
of violent crime.
WHERE?
‘.‘The heckled girl is virtually extinct.”
—Beauty item.
Where is the dodo, where is the auk,
Where is the mastodon?
Where are the snows of yesteryear —
And where’s the freckled girl gone?
Back in the ages far and dim,
Her fate we can well recall,
the girl with the freckles that, dark or light,
Speckled her face like a rusty blight,
And turned her day into darkest night,
And the sweets of her life to gall.
Now, they tell us, she is no more,
Lost and extinct and gone,
With the dodo and auk and the dinosaur.
With the moa and mastodon.
How it shadowed the youthful life
Of Molly or Maud or Meg
When flecks of russet dotted her nose,
And spattered her elbows, and, I suppose,
Even extended down to her toes,
Like specks on a plover’s egg!
Where is the taniwha, where is the moa,
Where is the mastodon,
Where are the novels of yellowback fame—
And where's the freckled girl gone?
Hours of secret travail she spent;
Lotions and lemon-juice
Ate up the most of her meagre screw
(Or weekly allowance, whichever she drew),
No peace or happiness ever she knew,
With worry she had no truce.
Now she has passed like the dodo and auk,
Like the bunyip and mastodon.
And nobody knows or can tell us true
Where’s the freckled girl gone.
Ay! beauty parlors and smart salons
Nobly have played their part,
Each lass to-day has a skin,
Her own, maybe, or out of a tin,
And there’s never a need for her to gaze in
Her mirror with sinking heart.
Where is the moa, where is the auk,
What of the mastodon,
And the hansom cab and the spinning-wheel—
And where’s the freckled girl gone?
N.S.W.
TROY.


“Übet”; Newspaper mix-ups? Mel-
bourne “Argus (12/8/’36) showed a pic-
ture headed “Surrender of Spanish
Rebels.” Their hands above their heads,
they appeared to be shouting defiance
as they were marched out of some bar-
racks in Madrid. The very same morn-
ing the “Sun-News-Pictorial” published
the very same photo, but reported it as
representing loyal troops singing cheer-
fully !
* * # * *
“Westernhaugh”; Reference to the
gipsy dwellers in Yetholme in Roxburgh-
shire (B. 19/8/ ’36) reminds me that these
“Egyptians” owe their fixed abode there
to James First and Saxth, who had them
collected and gave them a grant of land
to prevent their wandering over Scot-
land, appointing James Fea as their
lord. Him James I. and VI. created Earl
of Little Egypt, and he and his descen-
dants ruled until the line became extinct
—probably on the gallows.
“Verri”: I think, with “Lao-dah” (B.
19/8/’36), that tales of gipsies’ thieving
are exaggerated. When living in Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) we were asked by a neigh-
bor off on holiday to look after her 10
prime turkeys. Two days later a gipsy
company—a couple of caravans and 11
occupants —camped in the lane behind
the house. They stayed for three weeks,
during which time the turkeys, supposed
to be irresistible to the Romany breed,
wandered at will about the caravans
seeking scraps. We became friendly with
our interesting visitors; found they were
religious and very industrious mat-makers,
also amazingly anxious to do something
in return for any small kindness. Before
they moved on, leaving 10 turkeys still
roaming about, they collected and burned
every scrap of rubbish. The only pat-
tern they left was the mark of the fire.
$ * * ❖
“Saddle Sore”: I agree with “Mug
Rider” (B. 22/7/’36) that a fellow who
set out to ride to the coronation, doing
40 miles a day for 300 consecutive days
on the one horse, wouldn’t have a dog
chance. No horse ever foaled could no
it, even in the equable climatic condi-
tions to which he was accustomed. Taking
into consideration the changes of soil,
feed, air, water, temperature and other
odds and ends, the case is hopeless.
What’s more, I’d like to see a full-length
photo, of the man who can ride 40 miles
a day for 300 consecutive days. Two
hundred miles a week is big riding, and
there’s a heap of difference between that
and 40 miles daily for the best part of a
year.
* ❖ :i- *
“T. Essbie”; Pub-slogans (B. 12/8/’36)?
1 copied this from a notice-board at-
tached to the horse-trough in front of
the Riverview Hotel at North Richmond
(N.S.W.) a few years ago:
Leave your horse hitched here whilst
you are inside. He doesn’t like to go too
long between drinks either.
The Bung who erected that knew his
patrons.
❖ * 9.; *
“Fisher’s Ghost”; “Diggaire” (B.
29/7/’36) shouldn’t scoff at efforts to im-
prove the gas-mask, if he recalls the
original Balaclava-type issue. These con-
traptions were so saturated with nauseat-
ing chemicals that the wearer was apt to
vomit in them after a few minutes’ use.
and discarded them with violence when
the “all clear” went. Lewisite will be
more widely used in the next war than
the comparatively innocuous mustard of
the last one. The counter is an issue of
protective capes to envelop the soldier
on the march ; but the trouble will be
decontaminating the things, which are
good for only one dose. Mention of the
devastating effects of skin-irritant gases
should satisfy some recent Bulletin con-
troversialists that the kilt is never likely
to be seen on the field again in warfare.
:j: * *
“Are”: That Westralian miner who
recovered a fiver from a goat was lucky
(B. 12/8/’36). A W.Q. storekeeper once
put down a £5 note while he went for
change, and returned just in time to see
the currency disappearing behind his pet
Angora’s shaggy beard. After weighing
the value of the goat and the note, he
reluctantly determined that the animal
must die. When he came to cut open its
stomach, however, he found that the
scrap of paper was beyond identification,
for gastric juices act quickly in W.Q. So
he lost both goat and note.
"There y 'are, ’ Any—more wimmen doin' mens jobs.”
“General Prac.”; The papers tell us
that the gifted young pianist Philip Har-
grave has renounced thoughts of treading
the keyboard route to fame and purposes
to study medicine. His guardian thinks
a kinship of some sort must exist be-
tween the callings of music and healing,
and likely enough she’s right. Kreisler
himself was a medical student and so
was the conductor De Abravanel. Dr.
Tom Campion, a good physician of over
300 years ago, wrote a “Booke of Ayres”
for the lute and viol, and some composi-
tions for “Voyce,” Dr Bill Stone, on
the staff of St. Thomas’s Hospital till
1891, invented and played a thunderous
“Free air in the hack tyres, please!”
bassoon which made the floorboards
tremble. Sir William Petty, M.D., musi-
cal director of Gresham College at the
end of the seventeenth century, was one
of five doctors who have held the job.
* * *
“Toe H”: Adelaide has been laugh-
ing at the story of three girls in a car.
They had tuppence among them when
they found the car with tyres slashed
after the Toe H Ball. They spent the
two coppers ringing up the Automobile
Club’s office, but there was nobody at
home at that hour; so, literally without
a penny to their names, they waited help-
lessly, in the side street where they had
parked the car —against the warning of
a “man in plain clothes” who told them
that it would “certainly be stolen” if they
“left it there.” He explained also that
they were not entitled to leave it there
for more than 20 minutes; but with the
logic of the sex the one who was hostess
said that they could, “because she’d done
it before.” At 4.15 a.m. they were
rescued by an automobile patrol and re-
stored to their families. I had almost
become persuaded that the claim of sex
equality was well on the way to be estab-
lished, but now I am back to the old
belief that there is something missing
from the female make-up. Imagine three
young men being stranded after a ball
with only tuppence among them.
**V # *
“M 8”: My partner was shortsighted,
and I had gone to the top of the hill to
make sure the fairway was clear before
he drove his ball from the tee. He must
have mistaken my signal to wait for the
reverse, for he sent a beauty screaming
low over the brow of the hill. It
scorched the left ear of the man 50ft.
below. He dropped his bag and came
striding back in l a rage. “You silly fool,”
he roared as he came, “I’ll teach y’.”
My unsuspecting partner, unable to dis-
tinguish the battle signs on his lace,
approached him happily. With a thrill
of anticipation I watched them meet,
saw the angry one’s hand go out-—and
clasp my partner’s extended one in a
rapturous greeting. It was their first
meeting since, as cobbers, they had lost
each other at the battle of Mont St.
Quentin.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Broome, the pearling port in
Groperland’s nor’-west, is more than
“comparatively handy” to where Dam-
pier first set foot in Australia (B.
5/8/’36). The name of the bay on which
the port stands is called after Dampier’s
ship—Roebuck Bay ; likewise the creek
where he careened and sought shelter
for his ship is Roebuck Creek. At the
head of Roebuck Creek there is a large
rock, partly submerged at low tide,
known as Buccaneer Rock. An old local
tradition has it that somewhere near the
rock Dampier buried treasure, though it
seems most unlikely that he had any to
bury.
% * * #
“L. 1.8.”: I was a brigade adjutant
near Cairo when the office was tipped
that Sergeant Blinke had been awarded
a commission. The lad was wheeled up
to the office and told to take his place
among the Olympians. He reciprocated
gratefully by asking the O.C. and myself,
with one or two other heads, to a special
dinner at Shepheard’s. It was a good
dinner, but next morning a cable came
cancelling the commission and pointing
out that we had promoted the wrong
Blinke. Our man stuck out for his rights,
however, and was confirmed in his rank.
When last heard of, the right Blinke was
still a sergeant and the commissioned one
was making a name in the Flying Corps.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide “Advertiser” had a
midnight supper for Governor Dugan’s
starting of its new machinery. It is in a
new island building behind the Way-
mouth-street office, has all the up-to-the-
minute appliances, and is connected by
pneumatic tubes with the G.P.O. close
by. The “ Tiser” was founded in 1858
and, since it mopped up the old
“Register” a few years back, and the
Labor “Herald” had to give up the
struggle, is now the only morning daily
in Adelaide.
* * * *
“D.A.”: Those excellent map-makers
Bartholomew and Son, of Edinburgh,
have me guessing. I have a map of
s.-e. Australia, one of their world-survey
series, published 15 or 20 years ago,
which shows a town called Cabramatta
on South Creek (N.S.W.), between Ross-
more and Bringelly, where the road
to Penrith crosses this tributary of
the Hawkesbury. In the Citizen’s Atlas
and Joseph’s Reference Atlas, both pub-
lished by Bartholomews last year, this
mythical township reappears. There is a
Cabramatta on the Sydney side of Liver-
pool; I have never heard of another
except on Bartholomews’ authority, and I
was born within three miles of the place
so labelled on their maps. Is it an error
that has been carried on and on, or wav
there ever a district called Cabramatta
on South Creek, near the Cowpastures?
John Abbott might know.
GIB.
■ Gib.,” says the quartermaster. “Over there
is Spain.”
“Ay, Gib.,” says the second mate. “Over
there is blood.
And to think at home in England I groused
about the rain;
To think at home in England I growled
about the mud!
"Big ships, little ships, starring all the sea;
Haven’t seen so many since the jubilee till
now.”
“Thank God,” says the quarter, looking hard
and straight at me,
“For the old red duster that’s a-flying on
our bow.”
1 like to read the stories of a long time ago,
And how we raked the rascals from the old,
red seas;
But . . . “Gib.,” says the quarter. We are
moving dead slow—-
And you ought to see the faces of the
refugees!
QUEENSLAND.
L. ONEIL.


€
¥
*2 Ofor\ 6
9
10/
or
They*re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
mm
j
I
r
THE
POLITICAL POINTS
Lang Labor's expulsion machinery is
never allowed to rust. it was set in
motion again at the week-end. and out
went lour Assemblymen (Heffron, Hors-
ington, Davidson and C. C. Lazzarini), an
M.L.C. (King, secretary of the Labor-
Council) and 16 others, mostly trade-
union secretaries. And all in the sacred
name of “Labor unity,” which was
“accomplished at the Easter conference.”
Geraldton (W.A.) used to have a repu-
tation for changing its member at every
general election. It put J. C. Willcock
in 19 years ago, since when it has had no
other. Willcock enters on his Premier-
ship with a majority of one on the floor
of the House that matters. Scaddan was
in the same position in 1914. and in two
years or so his Ministry and party were
scattered beyond recall ; but those were
more strenuous times.
Where the Big City hasn't scored:
Westralia gets another Premier from an out-
lying part. Forrest was a native of and M.L.A.
lor Bunbury; so was Moore. Lefroy, after
being Agent-General, returned to his old
pastoral seat at Moora, and finally arrived at
the lop. Mitchell, now Lieut.-Governor, was
always indissolubly con-
nected with Northam.
Scaddan and Collier
were, of course, gold-
fielders ; the end came
for Scaddan when he
had to go further afield.
The State has only
had three metropolitan
Premiers —Walter James
(East Perth), Daglish
(Subiaco) and Rason
(Guildford) —and none
of them lasted long.
For years it was
taken for granted in
Westralia that Me-
Galium would suc-
ceed Collier as State
Labor-leader and
Premier. Two or
three years ago,
when Collier had a
breakdown and set
off for Maoriland,
it was thought the
dual succession
might occur im-
mediately. Collier
came back, and
carried on until last
week, when he resigned in favor of Will-
cock. As chairman of the Agricultural
Bank Commission, McCallum has a safer
job than Willcock and a better-paid one,
but he can’t be altogether happy when
. k.-c EimFiiimm
he tecalls his thwarted ambitions.
Reduction of State income tax with
the aid of Canberra grants, made partly
from Commonwealth income-tax revenue,
still goes on mS. Aus. A concession
carried in the Assembly against the Gov-
ernment, but (significantly) “without de-
bate,” permits deduction of State income-
tax payments from taxable income. In
N.S.W, which provides at least two-
fifths of the Canberra grants, taxpayers
are not only denied a corresponding con-
cession, but are actually charged “ordi-
nary” income tax on money deducted
from their weekly pay for “special”
income tax.
Zinoviev and Kamenev, with 14 others,
have been “tried” in Moscow on the old
charge of plotting to assassinate Stalin,
Before the “trial” began, Government'
newspapers—there are no others—de-
manded their heads, and Zin. and Kanr
pleaded guilty—perhaps because death
has become less terrible to them than
Soviet prisons. They were denied coun-
sel. Other Red chiefs are alleged to be
implicated, and “Moscow officially re-
ports the suicide of Tomsky.” Perhaps,
in Bishop Burgmann’s words, it is “all
part of Russia’s mighty experiment for
the future of the world.”
In 1934*35 Queensland’s Railway
Department charged its customers
£509.324 more than it did 10 years pre-
viously to carry 204,639 tons less mer-
chandise and livestock. Scarcely the way
to coax traffic from road to rail. The
number of erhployees (construction
workers excluded) has been going up
ever since Labor got back in 1932 —a
couple of thousand had been added up
to the middle of last year.
Sydney's Douglas Credit Association is
not short of good money. Witness the
fact that it had a full-page advertisement
in the “Sun” and hired the Town Hall
for a “rally.” At the rally, the chair-
man said something about “a Bank of
Liberty” and predicted that within a few
months the idea would “sweep Australia
like a prairie fire.” An Alberta prairie
fire?
Maoriland Labor has embarrassed the
Government at Canberra by raising the
old-age pension 2s. 6d. a week to £l.
Invalids are also to get £1 a week, “plus
10s. for a wife and 10s. for each child
under 16.” For M.L., this is a new kind
SECOND LAP.
“The Government has had no real response from Tokio.”— Mr. Lyons.
of social service, though Australia has
had invalid pensions (£1 the limit) since
1908. Great War veterans, war widows,
widowed mothers and Maori War pen-
sioners are also to get increases, and
women who mum; « TotrNerc offer inF/
women who marry ex-soldiers after July
31 are to become eligible for pensions •
m Australia eligibleness ceased in 1931.
Minister Nash thinks it can all be done
lor another £1 pet head of population.
Canberra smiles grimly at the M.L.
Government’s expectation that, with all-
round additions to pensions and liberalis-
i„g of conditions it can keep the
bill down to £5,480,000 this year, as
against £3,770,000 last year. In Aus-
tralia a mere addition of 6d, a week to
old-age and invalid pensions (now 18s.)
set expenditure on those pensions soar-
ing from £11,000,000 to £13,000,000. Cer-
tainly Australia has a population of
; f
6,750,000 compared with Maoriland s
1,600,000, but Australia’s experience that
the higher the pension rate the greater
the proportion of pensioners to non-
pensioners is certain to be repeated in
the sister-Dominion. ,
Though greatly reduced in numbers,
Tommy Atkins still finds himself cast for
the part of the world's policeman by
people who keep well out of danger
themselves. “S. M. Herald” comfortably
recalls that “a British military force was
sent to maintain order in the Saar.”
Is it impossible that the Powers can be
brought to agree now to request some
similar British action in Spain?
One very probable result would be that
both parties to the civil war would sus-
pend their ghastly hostilities and turn on
Tommy. Things of the kind have hap-
pened before in Spanish history, with
which “Granny” does not seem to have
even a nodding acquaintance.
Mr. Stevens (U.A.P.), who has been
“studying the markets question” in
Britain:
1 advise Australian industry to continue
on the lines followed the last few years.
Australia has been able to sell every ounce
it produced and can continue to do so,
even if it continues to increase production.
Mr. Menzies (U.A.P.), who has been
“engaged in England during the last two
years”; —
1 learned very clearly that the United
Kingdom does not present a wonderful
market, where we are able to expect expan-
sion. Nothing could be more foolish for
us than to believe that we can go on
expanding that market year after year,
according to our own desires and our own
capacity.
The Bulletin’s private opinion is that
Menzies is right; but it would be a
pleasant change if these U.A.P. cele-
brities could contrive for once —just once
—to say the same thing.
Plans for reduction of members usually
crash. The S.A. Butler Government has
produced one providing for a reduction
of Assemblymen from 46 to 39, and
giving 203,647 metropolitan electors 13
members and 148,674 country electors
26. Electors in country districts like
Peterborough (4219) and Newcastle are
to have three or four times the voting
power of electors in Torrens and Hind-
marsh (16,883). The thing mav go
through, but Labor will alter it as soon
as Labor can.
nu . ,
During three Moore years Queensland
defidts averaged f t 213,470 per annum,
Forean Smith camp in to end the
d ep res fion cause'a ‘Wa ” and Restore
XppiS Hfa
cits have averaged £997,350. But he has
taken each year (Moore didn’t) £250,000
from main roads “trust” funds, which
makes his virtual shortages in better times
rate wotS Moore’s Tn tad t mes
n!, °, , ! Tr >
vid ? hum y e exSiple'of hwl mnei
ariPQ bring • > ,
p 1h e f 0 ? 1 ?. 5 P rintecl * ast j^ ear !
?° If we som at mil rates and 168 at
5 o 9d
S as 8 ~ 2 2s - 6d -
£2 7s. 6d. per COPY £BO Per MIA
per copy lou per ivl.e.a.
Ihe Bulletin had a protest against a
sentence of 12 months, to be served on
a prison farm, imposed by Street, J., on
a man who had gone to another’s house
and kicked him into the next world—
so ferociously that the poor wretch s
features were “unrecognisable.” The
N. S. Waies Crown Law Department ap-
pealed, and the Full Court raised the
sentence to three years’ hard labor.
Leave to appeal was refused by the High
Court, so the three years’ hard will stand.
A Bulletin writer recently remarked
on the large proportion of Bolshies
among British writing men. The usually
well-informed Wyndham Lewis, in an
“English Review” contribution, goes
further:
To-day all English men of letters or
journalists are orthodoxically Left Wing.
Not too far to the left —just far enough
sternly to admit the necessity of civil war
and Marxian catastrophe without advocat-
ing immediate blood battles in the street.
Even if exaggerated, it deserves to be
borne in mind when Australians are con-
sidering the “news” from Spain which
is so very like the “news” from Abys-
sinia.
Nominated by the P.P.A. executive,
one T. W. Marwick, hitherto unknown to
politics, has been appointed by the West-
ralian Parliament lo the late Senator
Kingsmill’s place. Labor put up R. F.
Bourke, who stood for the .Senate two
years ago ; he got 34 votes against Mar-
wick’s 39. There were seven absentees,
one being the new Premier, Willcock,
and-as' Labor has only 34 members in
both Houses at least one man on the
other side must have voted for Bourke.
From this Willcock, who was in hospital
when named Prefhier, may draw a crumb
of comfort.
Minister Thorby to the Council of
Agriculture at Brisbane:
Though the tariff is causing a certain
amount of dislocation with the Japanese.
1 feel confident it will rectify itself in time.
Clumsily expressed, but perhaps that was
intentional. A month ago the gentleman
was precise and cocksure.
From a man who sees his occupation
going:
Nowadays nearly
every politician who
goes abroad —and there
is always someone
doing it —feels impelled
to write a series of
articles for some.; news-
paper. Journalists are
growing bitter about
this competition in a
field which of recent
years has been re-
stricted by an. alarming
mortality, particularly
among dailies —Sydney
“News” and “Guard-
ian,” Brisbane “Daily
Mail” and “Standard,”
Adelaide “Register”
and “Herald,” Mel-
bourne “Star” and the
two “W o r 1 d s,”
Hobart and Sydney.
It is suspected that
a lot of politicians'
stuff gets published
because it is hoped that the perpetrators will be
“useful”; in any case it is felt that the in-
formation is acquired on the cheap, since every
tripper gets his salary while away and often
all expenses as well. If a returned lawmaker
really has anything interesting to say, he can
say it at public meetings and get reported, and
thus help to keep pressmen in work instead of
helping to put them out of work.
From Molongloside:
There will be an outcry from the Labor
benches, followed by a censure motion, im-
mediately the House meets. Curtin would be
a poor tactician if he made any arrangement
with the Government to withhold criticism of
the trade policy; that would mean that he
and his party would have to share in the
odium. Thompson, the C.P. whip, said recently
that the Government has staked its existence
on the dispute with Japan. That is actually
the position. It is inferred from Lyons’s broad-
cast speech (1) that he doesn’t anticipate any
difficulty with the Opposition, and (2) that if
the Government, already in deep water, finds
itself in an impossible position, an appeal to
patriotism will be made to avert the ■ conse-
quences of its failure. But to introduce ques-
tions of national prestige is much more mis-
chievous than any suggestion that the- Lyons
Government has bungled. It has been alleged
again and again that Australian standards of
living are involved. No supporting evidence
has been produced by the Government.


z z rr
, OUEbvf
Vfy S.'isCLWttfOf*
%,-r o)N Vwne
E-AlgA/?/eASS/Al(j-
Re-Sizers' /Al
5 Colombo
QLV
Cu9t6pA
'
SWZX
■V\fyNiQk/(j
O^T*
.ybHiXdrx
“WHERE EVERY PROSPECT Pt-EASES....”


€ ■
I
c
H
[
Jgp MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
<vmz
ITT
m
D-fTZOOW*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.,
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Melbourne!
0.1
•1
4
is:
PLACES Ttr
n THIS
1 TIT A MAZDA
A LL that business of twisting
and peering and frowning
when shaving is ridiculous and un-
necessary. Fit a Mazda beside
your mirror for a perfect shave.
GOOD LIGHT—GOOD SIGHT
Tht
Coil
MLM
MAD E IN AUSTRALIA
Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dudley Arabin Smith has been A.J.C.
judge since 1921, and many a heart has
been broken as his eagle eye has marked
down the winning whisker. Dudley
hailed from Molong (N.S.W.) in the days
when every second man there was a cen-
taur, and they sent him to Brentwood
Grammar School and then to a great
English public school, Felsted. This
matriculated him to go abroad with the
Ist Light Horse in 1914 to do a univer-
sity course on Gallipoli, Sinai, and in
The A.J.C.’s Judge.
Egypt and Palestine. He came home in
1918 with the rank of lieutenant-colonel
and the degree of D.S.O. Apart from
being the A.J.C.’s judge, he is deputy
registrar of racehorses.
.Some September birthdays:
S.A. Senator Duncan-Hughes, 54, on Ist;
Archbishop Duhig (Bris.), 65, on 2nd; Prof.
Francis Anderson (Syd.), 78, J. W. Greene
(ex-Lord Mayor of Brisbane), 60, and George
Rowe (sec. A.J.C., Syd.), 55, on 3rd; General
(and Senator) Brand (Vic.), 63, on 4th; knight
Macpherson Robertson (Vic.), 76, on 6th ; C.
J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 60, Prof. A.
D. Ross (Perth), 53, and E. J. Harrison, M.H.R.
(Wentworth), 44, on 7th; Bishop Coleman
(Armidale), 49, and Q’land Attorney-Gen.
Mullan, 65, on Bth; Bishop Cecil Wilson (Bun-
bury), 76, P. V. Storkey, V.C., 45, Dr. J.
M. Baldwin (Vic. Govt. Astronomer), 58, G.
W. Martens, M.H.R. (Herbert), 64, and S.A.
Min. for Agric. A. P. Blesing, 57, on 9th;
Adelaide’s ex-Lord Mayor Lavington Bonython,
61, and V. C. Thompson, M.H.R. (New Eng-
land), 51, on 10th; Gerald Marr Thompson
(Syd.), 80, on 11th; L. J. McKean (N.S.W.
Crown Prosecutor), 51, on 12th; Field-Marshal
Birdwood, 71, and Vic. Senator Guthrie, 64,
on 13th; W.A. Chief Justice Northmore, 71, on
14th; W.A. Min. for Lands Troy. 59, Prime
Minister J. A. Lyons, 57, on 15th; Prof.
Walter Murdoch (W.A.), 62, and Commander
Williams (Navigation Dept., Syd.), 57, on 17th;
ex-P.M. Scullin, 60, Justice Webb (N.S.W.),
51, on 18th; Bishop Maguire (Townsville), 55,
on 19th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd.), 61, artist
Will Ashton, 55, Q'land Auditor-General G.
L. Beal, 67, and author lon Idriess, 46, on
20th; J. F. Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 58, on
21st; Bishop Davies (Carpentaria), 53, and
W.A. Min. for Mines S. W. Munsie, 66, on
22nd; Major-General Brudenell White, 60, on
23rd; Bishop Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 69, knight
Sam Hordern, 60, Clive Baillieu, 47, G. F.
Murphy (N.S.W. Sherifi), 53, and author E. S.
Soienson, 67,. on 24th; W. M. Hughes, 72, on
25th; S.A. Ghief Justice Murray, 73, Wilfred
Blacket. K.C. (Syd.), 77, on 27th; Prof. Oxer
(Ormond Col., Melb.), 68, and knight Herbert
Gepp (Melb.), 59, on 28th; artist Rupert
Bunny, 72, Brig.-Gen. Wisdom (former New
Guinea Administrator), 67, Judge White
(N.S.W.), 67, Q’land Labor Min. M. P. Hynes,
50, and author Rev. Father Eris O’Brien (Syd.),
41, on 29th; Brig.-Gen. W. Grant (Q.), 66, ex-
Senator Needham (now M.L.A., W.A.), 62,
and F. M. Cutlack (war historian), 50, on 30th.
Brigadier-General Charley Rome,
passed on in England at 58, was a Barcoo
(Q.) product; his father and uncle Tom.
owners of Northampton Downs and Ter-
rick, sold out on the peak of the squat-
ting boom in the ’eighties, and went to
England, to live as country gentlemen.
Charles, with cousin Claude, went to
Harrow and thence to the 11th Hussars.
Both served in South Africa and the
bigger scrap, Charles commanding a
cavalry brigade in Egypt and later be-
coming Assistant-Director of Remounts.
Some Australians should remember him
as military secretary on the highly-gilded
staff of Governor-General Earl Dudley
when his chief team-mate was the present
Governor-General.
Harry Chauvel was paid a glowing
compliment the other day by Earl Win-
terton, who worked with Lawrence in
Buxton’s Imperial Camel Corps, and
later came under Australian command.
In Melbourne “Argus” Winterton praised
Chauvel as a general, and “let it be known
that we English were as proud to serve
under him as were his own countrymen.”
There wasn’t much the late “Bob”
Bunning, Perth, didn’t know about jarrah,
■softwoods and ironmongery. Doyen of
western sawmillers, he had seen Westra-
lian milling develop into a complex indus-
try filling huge overseas orders. He had
been president of the Timber Merchants’
and Sawmillers‘ Associations.
The new president of the Australian
Provincial Press Association. H. I. Man-
ning, hails from Mackay (N.Q.). The
Mannings have been owners of the Mac-
kay “Mercury” since the year one and,
northern-born and northern-bred, are a
fine advertisement for the “beastly
tropics,” both physically and mentaly.
Victorian-born and educated at Scotch
College, Melbourne, Colin Mackenzie,
knight—he eschews his first name
William as lacking Scottish flavor
-—became a world-known anatomist
and member of the Council of the
British Anatomical Society. During
the war he was consulting orthopaedist
to the Shepherd’s Bush Military Hospital,
London. In 1924 he gave his collection,
the world’s finest, of Australian animal
anatomical specimens to the Common-
wealth Government
as a basis for the
National Institute
of Anatomy, of
which he has since
been director.
Later he added a
gift of £lOOO to
found the Anne
Mackenzie oration,
in his mother’s
memory. The
annual interest goes
to a lecturer on
some phase of pre-
ventive medicine.
Mackenzie’s en-
thusiasm has added
to the institute a
number of second-
ary collections
which help to make
it a happy hunt-
ing-ground for re-
search workers.
He has, too, built
up a series of lec-
tures which lend it
the air of a post-
COLIN MACKENZIE, Anatomist.
graduate university. All big medical
gatherings at Canberra make them-
selves ai home at the institute, and Mac-
kenzie, kind, shrewd and always patient,
is father and mother to them all.
Hardy Wilson, nominated for the post
of director of Melbourne National Gal-
lery, which now carries a screw of £9OO,
is better known as an architect and the
resuscitator of Old Colonial than as a
painter. He is also an author ; in his
The Dawn of a New Civilisation a
young architect, dissatisfied with Sydney
structures, seeks in Italy, Greece and
China for an ideal style, but Sydney cold-
shoulders his choice. Wilson’s big book
of drawings of old Tasmanian and
N.S.W. mansions is a standard work on
early colonial architecture.
From the shadow of the guillotine:
In less than four years as Premier (June 17,
to October 18, 1927, and November 4,
1930, to May 13, 1932), Lang had 29 Ministers.
Only seven remain in his “party," and of the
seven Dunn was “excluded" from his first
Ministry and McKell, tentatively kept in the
second (he was abroad at the time), was “out’
within a fortnight. Of the rest, only Lysaght
and Loughlin voluntarily resigned, the latter
anticipating expulsion. Lysaght, Ratchfle,
Flannery, Cruickshank and Stuart-Roberlson
arc dead. Stokes, Fitzgerald, Gosling and Ely
lost their seats (as did Ratcliffe and Flannery);
Keegan was deprived of the party nomination;
Lamaro resigned to stand for the South Sydney
Federal seat and was beaten. McTiernan,
“excluded” with Dunn in 1927, is now on the
High Court Bench. Mutch and Cann and
Coates were expelled from the 1927 Ministry and
the party; Willis was declared to have “auto-
matically placed himself outside the movement"
by contesting the Bulli by-election; now C. C.
Lazzarini, Davidson and Horsington are “out-
side the movement” also. Only seven left, and
only Baddeley, McGirr, Davies and Tully have
really escaped “the Big Fellow’s” displeasure—
it was touch and go with Concannon when
the new Leg. Council was being elected. Lazza-
rini’s end has been of the lingering sort —
passed out of the Ministry in 1927 and of the
party in 1936.
E. R. Stafford, the Victorian P.M., who
recently went on retiring leave, began his
career at Omeo 46 years ago, and has
the record of having sat on the Bench
in every magisterial district in the State
and in practically every courthouse. Staf-
ford always tempered an ounce of jus-
tice with a pound of mercy. He is a
keen Methodist, and is invariably on the
lay-preachers T list of whatever part of
Vic. he happens to be in.
An unusual sort of Anglican padre is
A. E. Weston, who moves from South
Bathurst (N.S.W.) to the church in Nor-
wood (S.A.) from which was promoted
Moyes, now Bishop of Armidale. As a
very young man, Weston had two years
in France as a private in the 33rd, but
came back with a commission and the
M.M. Training for the ministry, he
became rector of Parkes (N.S.W.) and
also president of the local R.S.L. Now,
at little over 40, he is a “venerable arch-
deacon.”
The enormous
Newton Moore,
who was Premier
of Westralia at 35,
has been ill in Eng-
land. He went
there in 1911 as
Agent - General,
leaving the late
Frank Wilson, who
was his Treasurer,
to become Premier
and take a dreadful
licking at the
general election
held that year.
Poor Wilson never
had a sniff of office
again. Moore,
from the comfort-
able shelter of the
Agency - General,
became G.O.C. the
A.I.F. in Britain,
major-general (this
without ever being
in action), M.P.
for a succession of
snug Conservative
seats, and a company director in a large
way. In some respects he has
been the most successful Australian
public man that ever left Australia for
Britain ; and he has never had to over-
exert himself for any of the good things
that have come to him. He is 66.
Patrick Frawley, chief stationmaster
at S. Brisbane, run down by a train
which was being shunted into the station,
was one of the best known of Queens-
land railwaymen. Thirty of his 42 years
in the department were spent in North
Queensland, where he was s.m. at
Charters Towers. Bowen and Hughenden.
Albert Badman knows as much about
wheat as any man in the Commonwealth
Parliament. He was born alongside a
wheatfield at Yacka (S.A.) 51 years ago,
and at 16, when his father died, took
charge of the farm. He is still a wheat
man, but more than a farmer ; he has
done a lot of valuable research work, has
introduced some of the best known of
Senator ALBERT BADM AN ( S.A. ).
S.A. varieties and has been a successful
exhibitor at many shows. When the
Country party was formed he took to
politics, twice failing to win a State seat;
then in 1932 he was elected to the Senate.
He is a stout worker for the Methodist
church, and is the kind of golfer every
player likes to meet—patient and not
infallible.
“El Verdugo” farewells a pair of
tovarisches:
Zinoviev and Kamenev were two of the few
remaining leaders of the inner group which
made the Russian revolution. Zin. —a Germanic
Jew who changed his name—was one
of Lenin’s closest co-workers before the revo-
lution, and with his leader and Radek formed
the left wing propaganda bureau in 1916. He
accompanied Lenin on his notorious train
journey home from Switzerland in 1917, but
opposed armed insurrection against Kerensky’s
Government. When Lenin died he and
Stalin and Kamenev (real name Rosenfeldt) led
the anti-Trotsky party, and he got Stalin into
the dead man’s shoes. As a reward Zin. be-
came about the second most powerful man
in U.S.S.R. for a time; he presided at the
1922 Communist World Conference in Moscow
and was chairman of the 1923 executive of
which Jock Garden was a member. And it
was a Zinoviev letter which wrecked Ramsay
MacDonald’s chances at the 1925 British elec-
tions. Kamenev, a little bearded man with a
birdlike face, first got into gaol for his com-
munist views in 1902. He was interdicted
again over the 1908 trouble, fled, was sent back
to run the Bolshie party during the war and
did it for a year at the daily risk of his life.
In 1915 he was sent for life to Siberia, but
escaped in time to join the presidium of the
Petrograd Soviet in 1917. When Lenin died
he followed him as chairman of the Council of
Labor and Defence, but both he and Zinoviev
fell after swinging to Trotsky in 1926. They
have both been expelled and readmitted to the
C.P. once or twice since, but, with Stalin gradu-
ally swinging from true communism to ordinary
republicanism and a “patriotic” outlook, both
gentlemen became vindictive. A little while
ago it was solemnly announced that they had
been banished for ever to an Arctic island,
but they turned up again for a last glimpse
of Russia as plotters against the life of their
former cobber, Stalin, who has become so
peeved about it that he proposes to remove
them to an ideal State from which nobody
ever comes back.


fetter Packed/^
4lW1 ''' w
•.- >'
mmm
■■m
■*\
Vi hi
S'
S?r«
Saf^l
/r
v-
N
1-MISfe' /
ml/
11
[[1:1/
m
3*>SS
1
a
ws
state express
Wicppeot
l oJImjcOl c&*ho1&
X,
BRITISH VISCACELLE
'/V
British Viscacelle — the smartest ,
most efficient wrapping material
yet evolved —now guards the fresh
fragrance of these delightful
VIRGINIA cigarettes .
JStiM 3/W6 ?: 18 jviV m
27-re: ALSO RAT 50' s ; FLAT 100 s AND ROUND AIRTIGHT 50 s
6 THE SECRET IS THE 333’* BLEND ”
STATE 333 EXPRESS
CORK-TIPPED AND PLAIN CIGARETTES
40148-8-6


How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
vour Executor. Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert K. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
dent.-Col. the Hon. X. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore,
K, Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manns
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates. Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates.
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company s
offices, viz.
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W. .
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collin.
Telegraphic Address; “Eratype.” Sydney. Melbourne or Port Kembla. mh]
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port n-eiumu
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current Lontlo ■ i P
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days’ of receipt at the refinery, tort v
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 214,058 10 p.c. = 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,851 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ ~119,682 9,042 1,254,700-
1931.. 99,820 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
Transferred to depreciation reserve,
£165,044 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100,685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ ~ 95,740 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ ~143,618 0,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ ~119,682 25,9931,141,216
1936.. 165,277 6 „ ~143,018 21,659 1,162,875
Founded by A. L. Elder in 1839, this big
wool broking, pastoral-finance and mer-
chandising co, and those associated with
it have done much for S. Aus., where it
does the bulk of its business. It also has
strong and growing connections in West-
ralia, mostly developed since the war.
For 24 years to the close of accounts in
1929, shareholders enjoyed a steady 10
p.c., sweetened with a bit extra in the
richest years and by a number of new
share issues. Then, on the heels of a
long drought in S. Aus., came the col-
lapse of the markets, and the div.-fell
to 4 p.c.
Earnings, however, have been steadily
gaining strength over the last five years.
During the last term the clip was lighter,
but it was worth a lot more, as the fol-
lowing comparison of sales in S. Aus.
and Westralia shows;
,= —1934-35. N , 1935-36.
(1 ross G toss
Bales. Value. Bales. Value.
Adelaide .. 272,724 £2,957,851 263,280 £4,151,232
Perth . . 218,287 2,661,331 202,736 3,539,995
The average per bale in Adelaide was
£l5 15s. 4d. (up £4 18s. 5d.) and in Perth
£l7 9s. 3d. (up £5 ss. 5d.). The rise was
due largely to Japanese support, which
also resulted in an almost complete clear-
ance of the clip plus a heavy carry-over
from the previous season.
After allowing whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, and
striking £21,029 (up £3849) off the book
value of premises and plant, gross earn-
ings were £40,352 better;
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 ~ 877,200 462,451 318,476
1926 .. 1,756,800 652,260 438,202
1928 .. 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1930 .. 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 .. 2,393,640 ' 458,686 358,866
1932 .. 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 .. 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 . . 2.393,640 513,647 365,024
1935 .. 2,393,640 518,930 373,255
1936 . . 2,393,640 559,282 394,005
The growth of £20,750 in exes, reflects
the previous year’s carry-over and con-
tinued expansion of the business. The
net result (up £19,602) was 6.9 p.c. on
capital as against 6, 6.2, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 5.3
and 10.9 p.c. back to 1929. The div.,
lowered from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c. in the
previous term, was lifted to 6 p.c. again.
The financial structure is solid:
1920. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Deposits, £ £ £ £
etc. .. 2,201,305 1,420,672 846,346 839,143
Other lia-
bilities.. 65,587 13,787 833,431 1,117,237
Property, pre-
mises, plant,
etc. .. 278,598 561,588 550,226 579,007
Government
stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 857,309 1,758,741 2,014,789
A d v ances,
etc .. 2,016,536 5,'784,245 3,260,710 3,299,771
Other assets 62,630 38,249 478 5,110
The most encouraging movement there
was a net increase of £39,061 in advances,
etc. The etcetera includes merchandise
(£127,223, up £32,739) and the holdings
in subsidiary and other cos. (£150,842, up
£6763). A growth of £283,806 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was accompanied by an expansion of
£256,048 in cash and Government securi-
ties, raising this item alone £58,409 higher
than total outside liabilities.
Excepting the nor’-west of the State,
the seasonal outlook in S. Aus. is bright;
owing to dry conditions there is still a
shortage of feed in the outer pastoral
areas of W.A. Chief doubt is concerning
the price of wool, owing to the trade
dispute with Japan.
The market prices the £lO shares paid
to £6 at £8 7s. 6d. as against £8 11s. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 4.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is £8 18s. 3d. in net tangibles.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Not To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. servos. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125,000 83,617 1,139.267
1927.. 244,172 12.5 „ ~ 131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,030 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~ 137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~ 143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150,943
Written off, £20,748 1,130,195
1932.. 156.761 10 p.c. =150,000 6,761 1,136,956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ ~ 150.000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934 . . 228,295 12,5 p.c. =187,500 ]
To staff pension fund, £20,000 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO J
1935 232,809 1° j^’ 000 I 72,809 1,393420
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO \
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. «= 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
Maintenance of the div. at 10 p.c. dis-
appointed (he market, which shortened
its hid for the fully-paid pound shares
from 665. 6d. to 635. over the last 12
months. At 635. the investor still dis-
counts (he future, the immediate return
being 3.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Those who look for around 4.5 p.c. on
their money count on a 14 p.c. distribu-
tion, or, what would amount to approxi-
mately the same thing, a one-for-two
bonus distribution and maintenance of
the div. at 10 p.c. On last year’s figures
either was within reach, but the board
may like to see a more settled outlook
or a wider margin between earnings and
any contemplated distribution before it
acts in the matter. The last gift (£300,000
in 1930) lifted paid capital to £1.500,000,
of which £1,200,000 has come from
reserves.
The spring in the year’s net earnings
was due to a better underwriting experi-
ence :
Loss Expense
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1900. . £342,336 £195,864 £95,651 57.2 27.9
1906.. 565,149 | 129,361 111.9 22.0
1910.. 605,509 391,321 ' 172,593 64.5 28.5
1925. . 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1930. . 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932.. 1,050,351 670,714 349,331 63.8 33.2
1933.. 1,008,530 622,039 333,387 01.7 33.1
1934. . 1,001,328 553,886 336,849 55.3 33.6
1935. . 1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1930. . 1,096,569 631,809 346,414 57.6 31.8
tSan Francisco disaster.
An extra £45,777 of net premiums was
gathered at £2524 less cost. But claims
were £35,031 heavier, leaving the under-
writing surplus £13,170 better at £118,346,
or approximately 7.9 p.c. on capital. The
return from investments (£117,448)
showed little change at 7.8 p.c. on capi-
tal. Including £13,371 dropped from
somewhere into the investment fluctua-
tion reserve, making it £69,060, the net
result from all sources sprang £16,356,
reaching 16.6 p.c. on capital compared,
with 15.5, 15.2, 11.6 and 10.4 p.c. for the
four preceding terms.
Owing to better returns and improved
prospects, the board has given more at-
tention to shares than to Government
securities lately:
1930. 1934. 1985. 1936.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,200,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities .. 360,203 241,289 225,940 273,033
Public securi-
ties .. 1,981,827 2,104,593 2.035,631 2,024,755
Mortgages .. 61,625 52,250 46,250 34,250
Shares, etc. 122,324 174,441 239,889 369,949
Freeholds .. 425,268 417,559 446,793 463,495
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 465,710 475,258 465,497 487,869
The growth of £47,093 in liabilities was
on account of provision for unadjusted
losses (£182,606, up £44,298). The book
value of public securities and mortgages
was reduced by £10,876 and £12,000
respectively. Shareholdings increased by
£130,060, freeholds by £16,702 and
debtors’ balances and cash, etc., by
£22,372. When the books closed policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
272 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
IX) Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 28,692 8 p.c.= 12,581 16,111 37,268
1927.. 35.231 8 „ 16.499 18,732 56,000
Investment reserve ( £4000) disappears.. 52,000
1928.. 34,911 8 p.c.= 18,407 16,584 68,584
1929.. 43,534 8 „ „ 21,367 21,867 90,451
Endowment account, £l5OO . . . . 88,951
1930.. 43,680 S p.c. - 23,866 19,814 108,765
1931.. 37,713 8 ~ „ 24,133 13,580 122,345
1 nncr reserves disclosed. £86,000 .. 208,345
1932.. 33,631 S p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 S „ „ 24,138 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears. £28,075.. 211,998
1035. . 43,685 10 p.c. - 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £lO,OOO. . 206,083
1936.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
It was in 1914 that the far-sighted Car-
penters set to work to lay the founda-
tions on which they have since built a
large and profitable island trading orga-
nisation. During the war years the co.
plodded along, extending its connections
in the Solomons and New Guinea. New
opportunities, of which the management
made Ihe most, were provided by the
post-war boom, development of the
Mandated Territory, and the upward
surge of trade activity after the slump.
Of the £665,031 of issued capital at
June 30 last, nearly nine-tenths was
added to the register since 1923. Over
the same period a steady 8 p.c. div.
(garnished with a 2 p.c. bonus in 1935
to celebrate the co.'s twenty-first birth-
day) was paid from declared net earn-
ings averaging approximately 13 p.c. on
capital. At ihe close of accounts in
1932 £86,000 of inner reserves was dis-
closed ; in 1934 £28,075 of the visible
accumulation was deducted from fixed
assets (thus offsetting the total book
value of the co.’s coastal shipping), and
another £lO,OOO was similarly deducted
at the close of last accounts. At that
dale approximately £500,000 of the
co.’s capital was invested in Australian
Consols and subsidiary and associated
cos. The lot figured in the books at
£348,126. It is plain, therefore, that
everything is not in the window.
During the 12 months to the close of
accounts in 1935, the co. bought two
9000-ton Diesel-driven vessels, thus
establishing its own Australia - New-
Guinea-Britain service, now running
smoothly and profitably ; it increased its
aerial fleet by five ’planes, bought the
shares in On Chong and Co., Gilbert
Islands, and acquired the assets of
Cocoanut Products, Ltd., including plan-
tations and a desiccated coconut factory.
During the last term the parent bought
the 100,000 £1 pref. shares in W. R.
Carpenter (Solomon Islands), Ltd. —it
already holds all the 150,000 ords. —
at 28s. 6d. each or on the basis of seven
f.-ps. in W. R. Carpenter for every 10
prefs., at shareholders’ option. Then, to
make insurance a family matter, an-
other offshoot, Southern Pacific Insur-
ance (issued capital, £25,000), was
formed. Later the ords. in Brown and
Joske, merchants, Fiji (paid capital
£69,440 in 20,000 7 p.c. prefs. and
49,440 ords.), were bought at an undis-
closed figure. At the end of March,
1935, these ords. had a net tangible
book value of 255. 2d. each ; they re-
ceived 3 p.c. for the year, the outlook
was promising, and finances comfortable.
To finance last year’s expansion, the
co. issued 85,031 new fully-paids, called
£96,000 on the contribs. (the other 25., or
£23,000, has been called since the close
of accounts), and added only £30,225 to
the outside debt, which is well covered
by stock and debtors’ balances alone;
1931. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £301,667 £339,789 £468,326 £644,081
Liabilities .. 7,333 18,071 78,187 108,412
Shipping property 16,075 28,155 ) 977 o R7RIR
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750 505 J 7,470 db7,fallj
I n v e s tments,
etc 118,114 140,618 217,885 348,126
Stocks - . . 1,238 15 72,423 69,479
Debtors, etc. 261,774 440,707 226,039 185,425
Cash, etc. .. 45,460 773 33,808
The net addition to the book value of
investments was £130,241, and to
shipping, plant, etc., £90,140. Branch
balances, previously included with
debtors (down £39,614), are now lumped
with cash, etc. (up £33,035).
The year’s declared net earnings (up
£24,394) were 11.5 p.c. on average capi-
tal, compared with 11.4, 12, 11.3, 11.1,
12.5, 14.6 and 20 p.c. back to 1929. That
was after the parent, branches and sub-
sidiaries had made allowance for contin-
gencies, and the full benefit of the new
capital has not yet been felt, the chair-
man says. The div. was kept aL 8 p.c.
The market, which expects a bit
better, prices the scrip at 435. 3d., at
which figure the return is 3.7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, or 4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
distribution. Visibly the cover is 265. lid
in net tangibles.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten Towards Re—
April, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
£ ,c £ £ £
1926.. 19,537 9 p.c. r 14.905 3807 825 12,987
1927.. 26,004 10 „ „ 16,561 3951 5,492 18,479
1928.. 21,625 10 „ ~ 16,561 3703 1,361 19,840
1929.. 17,64] 8 „ ~ 13,250 3083 70S 20,548
1930.. 15,145 7 ~ ~ 11,594 3290 261 20,809
1931.. 10,642 4 ~ ~ 6.625 3023 994 21.803
Loss.
1932.. 549 Nil 3050 18,198
1933.. 6,304 Nil 3002 8,892
Profit.
1934.. 3,060 Nil 2727 333 9,225
1935.. 13,504 4 p.c. - 6,625 3031 3,848 13,073
1936.. 15,614 5 ~ „ 8,281 3365 3,968 47,041
.Subject to trade developments, notably
price-cutting, shareholders’ prospects are
encouraging. The co. is Sydney’s biggest
vendor of sporting goods, tobacco and
haircuts ; it runs a chain of shops, and has
strong connections among suburban re-
tailers. For 11 years to the close of
accounts in 1922 shareholders enjoyed a
run of 10 p.c. divs., sugared with £40,625
of bonus scrip. Then price-cutting became
endemic, and for several years the pro-
posed realignment of George-street, Hay-
market. stood in the way of the co. mak-
ing the best use of additional freehold
it had bought. Then slump and with-
drawal of the buses aggravated the diffi-
culties, and no divs. were paid for the
three years to the close of accounts in
1934. Meanwhile, new premises adjoin-
ing the Haymarket depot were built on
the new alignment, and paid for out of
compensation received from the City
Council ; the Brisbane branch, which
had become a drag, was closed, there has
been a partial restoration of bus ser-
vices, and, for the last couple of years,
an absence of price-cutting.
During the last term, gross earnings
(£133,665) moved up £12,636. Trading
exes. (£118.052) took £10,528 of the in-
crease. After allowing for depreciation
(shown as written off in the table), the
net result was 7.3 p.c. on capital as
against 6.3 p.c. for the previous term.
A point was added to the div., making it
5 p.c.
The immediate outlook favors a
slightly better showing at next balance.
At 17s. (18s. 6d. a year ago) the fully-
paid pound shares return 5.8 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 225. in
net tangibles.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1919. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £llO,OOO £166,008 £166,008 £166,008
Mortgage .. 133,978 131,712 131,211
Other liabilities 37,313 118,158 111,632 115,306
Freeholds . . 216,897 212,183 212,183
Plant, etc. .. 20,277 21,859 19,486 19,286
Stocks,. 99,287 144,980 99,623 99,383
Book debts . . 21,861 60,081 94,598 103,194
Cash, etc. . . 6,371 602 676 487
The floating debt is well covered. In-
cluding the mortgage, the amount com-
ing to outsiders exceeded more or less
liquids at June 30 by £43,453, an im-
provement of £4994 over the twelve-
month.
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profit. 15 p.c. venue, etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
.lime, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27. . 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,790
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906.047
Dec., ’29... 100,772 84,500 86,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 .. 895,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883.763
Dec., ’30.. 185,380 84,500 50,000* Nil 884,643
June, ’31.. 126,757 84,500 14,702* Nil 912,198
Dee., ’31.. 107,254 84,500 Nil 934,952
June, ’32.. 102,776 84,500 7,908 Nil 945,320
Dec., ’32., 108,380 84,500 9,388 Nil 959,812
June, ’33.. 95,517 84,500 9,801 Nil 961,028
Dec., ’33.. 111,136 84,500 11,109 Nil 976,555
June, ’34.. 92,801 84,500 16,069 Nil 968,787
June. ’3sf. 226,283169,000 35,930 Nil 980,140
Meter renewal fund disappears, £10,492 . . 969,648
June, ’36f. 197,192169,000 66,811 Nil 931,029
* Old plant written off. t Twelve months.
The contraction of £29,091 in net earn-
ings for the last term was a result of the
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


Kandos Cement Company Limited
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Chairman, Mr, C. A, JAQUES, in moving the adoption of the Balance Sheet, made the following address to
shareholders:
Ladies and Gentlemen— 20th August, 1936.
1 have much pleasure in moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet.
•it , < ? U ?u Ve P ,ante d copies of these documents before you, and, with your permission, we
will take them as read. •
W oAl wi i h i eep . regret la * I remind you of (he loss the Company sustained during the
f °f one of your Directors, Mr. Alexander Copeland, and of the
Secretary Mr. Colin Campbell. Mr. Copeland had been a Director for nearly
j . antl llls wide commercial experience and intimate knowledge of the cement industry
maae turn a most valued member of the Board. Mr. Campbell joined the staff at the
inception ot the Company in 1913 and for many years past filled the position of Secretary,
'P l e . ntl re satisfaction of the Board. It is with a genuine feeling of sadness that 1 record
with |j Sm ® °* two men w * lo gave of their best to the Company during their long association
The published accounts which you have before you reflect the satisfactory trading
conauions ot the past year. During the period under review there was increased activity in
, ouiiding trade and the outlook generally is very promising, but I would remind you that
me ngures tor the period do not indicate the effect of the recent price reductions.
of interest^— wing figures covering building operations in the metropolitan area will prove
£s'’oo year ended 30th June, 1935, 4868 buildings were erected at a cost of
and the corresponding figures for the financial year just closed arc 6571 buildings at
a cost ot £8,141,753.
Although the improvement is substantial, last year’s figures are still well below those of
Hie peak year 1929—when 11,316 buildings were erected at a cost of £17,556,257.
~ * n S generally, the outlook for cement sales has never been better and the outlook
.or the Australian cement manufacturer, as a result of recent Tariff decisions, has never been
worse. In the month of May last the Tariff protection against British cement was cut by
X) per cent., i.e., to 7/6 per ton, and this reduced measure of protection comes off on Ist
December next, unless the Government decides to review its decision.
In the disturbed world conditions existing to-day the safeguarding of our key industries
is a matter of national concern. The cement industry is a key industry and 1 submit that
mere is not any justification for the treatment to which it has been subjected.
The grounds on which the Tariff Board has recommended that British cement should
he placed on the duty free list are stated on page 2 of the Supplementary Report, as follows;
(aj That the industry is over-capitalised and that plant far in excess of present or
immediate prospective needs has been installed.
(b) That the rationing of output between manufacturers during the depression hindered
free competition and, by keeping output at a low percentage of capacity for
individual plants, increased cost of production.
(c) That the profits made by manufacturers as a whole were unreasonably high.
Taking these in order—the first conclusion dealing with over-capitalisation has already
been dealt with very convincingly by Mr. P. R. Higgins, Chairman of Standard Portland
Cement Co., Ltd., at that Company’s General Meeting on Monday last. His statement on the
point has already appeared in the Press and 1 can add very little to what he then said. It
would appear, however, that even if the Tariff Board’s conclusion had some merits on other
grounds it does not justify the assumption that the cement industry is a single entity which
lias deliberately over-capitalised itself. It must not be overlooked that the formation of one
or the more recent Companies operating in New South Wales was directly sponsored by the
New South Wales Government and it is, I think, clear to everyone that it was never within
the power of the earlier formed companies in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia
to prevent other entirely independent companies being formed in those States and the other
States of the Commonwealth.
The second conclusion (b) suggests that instead of adopting a rationing system the New
South Wales Companies should have adopted the alternative of a trade war, leading, no doubt,
to the annihilation of one or more of these companies, the loss of employment by the
workers in the defeated organisations and the wiping out of one or more of the important
townships which are dependent on cement works for their existence.
The next conclusion (c) deals with excessive profits. I say again that it is difficult to
understand why the cement industry has been singled out for special attention. Why it
should be stripped of the Tariff protection under which it has been built up, when no similar
treatment has even been hinted at in the case of other important protected industries which
are making far greater profits and far greater dividend distributions, is difficult to comprehend.
In support of this contention 1 submit the following information covering the earned
profits during recent years of the three New South Wales Cement Companies whose shares
are listed on the Stock Exchange:
Taking first our own Company—
Profits Earned.
• 5.2%
1.6%
4.9%
4.8%
11.3%
11.6%
Profits Earned.
7.9%
4.4%
8.6%
11.3%
10.4%
10.7%
years = 6-J%.
Dividend.
5%
24%
5%
6%
7f%
10%
Dividend.
54%
4%
6%
7j%
7%
7i%
Profits Earned. Dividend.
0.18% Nil
0.12% Nil
1.1% Nil
3.0% Nil
4.5% Nil
manufacturing at the commencement of the
dividends on its ordinary shares and but one
dividend of 8% on its preference shares this year, or £8399 in dividends in the
nine years since its formation.
This Company, which started
depression period, has paid no
It we examine the figures of these three New South Wales companies the average net
profit earned for the period covered is 5.75% only.
Every fair-minded person will, I think, admit that the figures I have just quoted do not
support the Tariff Board’s conclusion “that the profits made by manufacturers as a whole are
unreasonably high.”
In the light of these figures and the charge of profiteering that has been made you will
be able to assess the logic of the Tariff Board’s recommendation that the Australian market
should be thrown open to, one would assume, the non-profiteering British Cement Companies
oi which The Associated Portland Cement Manufacturers, Limited, The British Portland
Cement Manufacturers, Limited, and The Tunnel Portland Cement Company, Limited are
probably the most important. Here are these Companies’ figures for the last three years:
THE ASSOCIATED PORTLAND CEMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.
Year. Profits Earned. Dividend.
1933 Not available 7%
1934 Not available 10%
1935 Not available 20%
BRITISH PORTLAND CEMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.
Year.
1933
1934
1935
TUNNEL PORTLAND
Year.
1933
1934
1935
Profits Earned. Dividend.
15.3% 15%
16.2% 174%
20.5% 20%
CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED.
Profits Earned. Dividend.
43.9% 25%
31.2% 18%
'41.4% 20%
It is only fair to slate that possibly the Tariff Board was unaware of the profits position
ot these English Cement Companies when it made this recommendation, for while the
Australian Companies supplied the Board with the fullest particulars of their operation
costings, selling prices, and trading results, a feature of the inquiry was the entire absence of
evidence on behalf of British Companies, who declined to furnish any on the
ground that the information was confidential —vide March, 1935, Report, page 5.
While on this subject 1 think I may claim that it is to the credit of the Australian Cement
Companies that they have tried to meet the market by making substantial reductions in the
selling prices of cement during recent years, as a result of which New South Wales consumers
nave benefited by the following price reductions:
, Per Ton.
12 months ended 31st October, 1934 £5 6 0
Reduced Ist November, 1934, to 5 0 0
Reduced 25th January, 1936, to •. 4 15 0
Reduced 15th June, 1936, to 4 10 0
These prices include £l/0/8 freight to the metropolitan area, and are subject to discounts.
There is another aspect of the matter to which I must refer. Throughout the Parliamentary
debate constant reference wasrnade to the effect of the unduly high price of cement on other
industries and particularly to its effect on the home builder and house occupier. The Minister
directing negotiations for Trade Treaties (Sir Henry Gullett) asked the House to state who
were the victims of these excessive charges and supplied the answer himself by stating, “They
are the occupiers of houses throughout Australia.”
The value of cement in an ordinary home building is not more than 2 per cent, of the
total cost and possibly a little less, or, reduced to figures, in a building costing, say, £BOO,
the cement used would cost £l6, and on a price reduction of, say, 20 per cent., which is
apparently being sought by the Tariff Board, the saving would be about £3, evidence surely
that the suffering of the house occupier was unduly stressed.
The value of the cement industry to Australia deserves consideration, for it must not be
thought that the shareholders in cement companies get all the benefits. On referring to the
notes of my address to you two years ago I find reference to the fact that the Kandos
Cement Co., Ltd., alone had up to that date distributed in the purchase of stores, plant,
machinery, etc., over three million pounds, and in wages, salaries, railway freights, and
taxation more than another three million pounds, and this total has, of course, been
considerably added to during the past two years. In considering these figures, you will
remember that the Kandos Company is only one of 11 companies operating in the Common-
wealth.
1 will give you some further figures that indicate the financial importance of this industry:
FREIGHTS.—RaiIway freights paid in connection with haulage and transporting ot
cement over Australian railways exceed £500,000 per annum.
COAL. —The amount of coal used in the manufacture of cement in Australia exceeds
350,000 tons a year and on this coal royalties are paid to the various State Governments.
LIMESTONE AND GYPSUM. —Not less than 1,400,000 tons of limestone and 22,000 tons
of gypsum are used yearly in the manufacture of cement in Australia.
BAGS. —Over 12,000,000 multi-wall 5-ply paper cement bags are used annually. These
are all made in Australia and their manufacture absorbs approximately 3000 tons of Australian-
made paper.
EMPLOYMENT.—It is estimated that at least 6500 men, together with their wives and
families, are dependent on the cement industry in Australia for a job, while possibly another
6500 depend indirectly on the industry.
WAGES. —The combined wages distributed directly and indirectly in connection with the
industry amount to at least £2,000,000 per annum.
There is another matter which calls for attention, /.<?., the Tariff Board’s finding on page
6 of the Supplementary Report of March last as to the landed duty free cost of imported
cement on a c.i.f. basis of 51/6 per ton.
It is understood that in arriving at the c.i.f. cost the Tariff Board adopted the ruling
freight charge of 27/6 less 5 per cent, per ton of the Conference Shipping Companies.
It is common knowledge that the freight charged on a recent consignment of 6000 tons
of cement to Western Australia worked out at a fraction under 13/6 per ton. The ship
in question was one of several time chartered vessels coming out for the purpose of trans-
porting wheat, wool, etc., and it is estimated that many similar freighters will be arriving
in Australia for a like purpose.
A lot has been said about the natural protection which the Australian Cement Manufacturer
enjoys as a result of the heavy freight charges on imported cement. Actually the advantages
are the other way, as the British Manufacturer is able to secure freights from London to
Sydney at 13/6 per ton while the railway freight charged from Kandos to Sydney at 20/8
per ton is over 50 per Cent, higher.
The position disclosed by those figures leaves little doubt that if the existing small tariff
protection is taken off in December, the Australian market will be flooded with cheaply-
manufactured cement at a cost far below that calculated by the Tariff Board and set out in
the following table;
Landed Duty Free Cost
Board’s of Imported Cement Based
Estimate of a Reasonable on a c.i.f. Price
Maximum Selling Price. of 51/6 per Ton.
Brisbane £3 3 10 £3 11 8
Sydney 3 .16 5 3 10 3
Melbourne 3 8 7 3 11 0
Adelaide 3 8 2 3 11 10
Hobart 3 10 10 3 11 2
You will note the Tariff Board’s estimate of a reasonable maximum selling price for local
cement in Sydney is £3/16/5 per ton, while it estimates the landed duty free cost of imported
cement on a c.i.f. basis at £3/10/3 per ton or 6/2 less. If, however, the Tariff Board’s
included freight charge of 27/6 is replaced by the available freight charge of 13/6, you will
realise that duty-free British cement could be landed in Sydney at 20/2 per ton less than
the Board’s estimate of a reasonable maximum selling price for local cement. My remarks
on this matter may be countered by reference to the application of the dumping provisions
of the Industries Preservation Act. In this connection, let me say that in the past it has
been proved that it is almost impossible for local manufacturers to successfully invoke the
operation of this Act or the Customs Tariff Industries (Preservation) Acts 1921-1922 as both
Acts place the onus of proving dumping on the Australian manufacturer.
In the circumstances, speedy action is impossible as most of the necessary evidence,
if it is obtainable at all, will have to be obtained in England.
In making this statement I am not overlooking what the Minister for Customs, Mr.
White, said during the debate in March last in reply to a question on the subject of dumping
by the Honourable Member for Richmond, Mr. Green. The Minister intimated that the
Government could quickly invoke the provisions of the Customs Tariff Act if dumping were
attempted, but experience shows that attempted action under this Act in the past has been
of very little assistance to local manufacturers.
To summarise the position the Australian Cement Industry is facing the gravest crisis
in its career. I have endeavoured to place the position fairly before you and to say nothing
that is calculated to antagonise the Commonwealth Ministry, to whom we must look, and to
whom I now appeal, for a favourable review of the position. An analysis of the arguments
advanced during the Tariff debate clearly indicates that Parliament’s decision which deprives
the Cement Industry of all tariff protection in December next was based:
FIRSTLY on an inaccurate interpretation of the Ottawa Agreement, leading to the belief
that loyalty to that Agreement demanded support for the Tariff Board’s recom-
mendation ; and
SECONDLY on an assumption that the Australian Cement Companies had beer guiltv
of profiteering.
The action of Parliament in fixing a duty of 7/6 per ton on British cement until December
next supports the view that the early interpretation placed on the Ottawa Agreement was
subsequently modified. As regards the assumption of profiteering, I trust my remarks to-day
will help to dispel the belief that the profits made by Australian Cement Manufacturers are
unduly high. If a charge of profiteering is to be measured by profits earned and dividend
distribution, then I suggest that the charge is disposed of by the figures 1 have given earlier
in my address. If, on the other hand, the impression of profiteering has been created by
the relatively high selling price of cement in Australia, I submit that due allowance has not
been made for the very favourable and entirely different conditions which govern cement
manufacturers in Great Britain.
Consider the following figures and you will, I think, agree that Australia’s duty lies in
the safeguarding of her own rather than Great Britain’s secondary industries. In 25 years
the number of persons employed in our primary industries has decreased by over 20,000,
while during the same period the number of persons employed in our secondary industries
has increased by nearly 200,000, conclusive evidence, I think, that Australia must look to the
development of her secondary industries to solve the problems of population, defence and
unemployment with which it is confronted.
I will refer now, but only briefly, to the accounts as there are no important movements
which call for comment:
The net profit for the year at £78,014/11/10 is £11,055/5/6 less than that disclosed in
last year’s accounts, which, however, included a capital profit of £12,549/7/6
The carry-over of £33,448/18/1 after transferring £lO,OOO to General Reserve is £BU 161 11
greater than the amount brought into the accounts under this heading last year.
An interim dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum in respect of the half-
year ended 31st December, 1935, was paid in February of this year and the Report informs
you that a further dividend at the same rate for the half-year ended 30th June lasi is
recommended and you will deal with this recommendation at a later stage.
The Operating Company—Australian Portland Cement Proprietary, Limited—has main-
tained the manufacturing plants at Kandos and Geelong and the colliery at Kandos in first-
class condition, while substantial additional improvements have been carried out and others
are contemplated.
Ample provision for depreciation has been made out of current earnings.
Following their established practice of keeping in touch with the latest modern develop-
ments in the industry, they sent Mr. Moreton, Chief Engineer of Geelong works, to the
U.S.A., Germany and England during the year to investigate these matters.
QUALITY OF CEMENT. —Our cements continue to maintain their trade popularity and
you will he interested to know that the quality of the cements produced at the Kandos and
Geelong works is far above what the Standard Specification calls for and it is questionable
whether cements of higher quality are produced to-day in any part of the world.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
#
A fortune for each
O' THEM
JOHN DAL WOOD LAWRENCE will tell you, if
you ask him, that he has bought a fortune for each
of his children. He is not making the mistake his
father made.
Mr. Lawrence’s father left his children nothing because
he did not understand A.M.P. assurance and tried to
save for them instead. He died before he had saved
more than enough to pay his bills. He left no estate.
The son realised that it would be a long time before his
savings would amount to anything one could call an
estate, and that almost anything might happen in the
meantime, so, then being 29 years old, he decided to put
£9/3/- a quarter into buying £730 from the A.M.P. for
each of his two children; £750 to be delivered to each
of them, plus bonuses, on his death, even though that
should occur the next week.
’Phone or call at the nearest A.M.P. office and it will
arrange to put such a fortune in your family s way
before the day is out.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary, General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Officet Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have ySu an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
17!3 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
1935 General Catalogue.— Advt.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
<■
‘
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. 4-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
seamen’s strike, which caught the co.
with low stocks of coal and interrupted
deliveries from Newcastle —for over two
months the co. received no supplies from
the contract collieries. Efforts to rail
the stuff to Melbourne proved to be too
slow and costly; so a couple of ship-
ments of Baltimore (U.S.A.) coal were
bought in January, and another lot from
Durham (Eng.) followed later —English
coal was not available early in the year.
These purchases meant a loss of £50,000
to the co.
The most heartening feature of the
year’s business was the sale of 3416
gas cookers, 2359 gas water-heaters,
2716 gas wash-coppers and a number of
other gas appliances. Including flats, no
fewer than 3450 new residences were
erected in the co.’s area. The quantity
of gas sold (4127.6 million c.f.) increased
by 158.2 million c.f., or 3.9 p.c. The
growth in revenue from gas sales was
£10,037, and from residuals £10,941,
making the spring in total income
£20,978:
Year to 30/6/’35. Year to 30/0/’36.
* N - ( -X
Per Per
1000 e.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales:— s. d. s - d.
Gas .. ..£1,115,854 5 4) £1,125,891 5 21
Residuals, etc. 182,978 101 193,919 10 +
Total .. £1,298,832 6 3 £1,319,810 C li
Manufacturing
and distrib,
exes. .. 778,311 3 9 841,258 3 10)
Other charges 298,523 1 5 281,360 1 31
Total outgo £1,076,834 5 2 £1,122,618 5 2j
The growth of £62,947 in manufacturing
and distributing exes, was due entirely
to the extra cost of coal and oil
(£410,346, up £71,721). Other charges
were £17,163 lighter. Leaving meter re-
newal fund (£10,492, which has dis-
appeared) out of the reckoning, the net
result was sufficient to pay the nominal
13 p.c. div. and send £25,000 (£40,000 in
the previous term) to the reserve fund
account, making it £104,823, of which
£66,811 was spent on extensions and im-
provements.
The board has been authorised , to
create 30,000 new £5 shares, and to sell
them in accordance with the co.’s Act,
which provides that all scrip must be
auctioned. The market prices the old
shares at £l3 18s., at which figure the
return is 4.6 p.c. on a 13 p.c. div. basis.
Actually the 13 p.c. is equal to no more
than 6.1 p.c. on the average price realised
(£lO 10s. 3d.) for all scrip auctioned for
the last half-century or more.
Plans for the dredge to treat B.H.
Prop.’s alluvial deposits on the Mac-
quarie River, near Wellington (N.S.W.),
are complete. The buckets will have a
capacity of 40 cubic feet each, and the
machine, which will be the largest of
its kind in Australia, will weigh 2600
tons, and cost about £125,000. Details
concerning the deposit, and of an issue
of shares by the subsidiary (Wellington
Alluvials —nominal capital, £250,000 in
2s. shares) formed to work it, are ex-
pected to be announced at the parent’s
annual meeting next month.
-** * *
New Gympie Gold Mines (Q.) has in-
stalled a 10-head battery of 12501 b.
stampers, purchased from the Govern-
ment for £2OOO. Capacity is 30 tons
per 24 hours, costs are not expected to
exceed 4s. a ton, and ore ready for
crushing is expected to average loz. or
thereabouts.
* * * *
Border Gold Reefs is dispatching yet
another expedition in quest of Lasseter’s
“reef.” The co.’s aerial survey in
June reported the discovery of an out-
crop, eight to nine miles long, some 30
miles west of the S.A.-W.A. border.
“0.8.’5” comments on eight Westralian
goldminirig resurrections:
Murchison Gold Development will have a
treatment plant in operation on one of its two
shows within three months, and another on
its other venture within six months. Ore reserves
PUTARURU PINE AND PULP CO.
—SEE PAGE 38.
in each property are said to be ample for a
start. In the old days nearly 1,000,000 tons,
averaging over Bdwt., was raised and treated
from one (the Waroonga, at Lawlers).
Fraser’s, operated by Southern Cross
Development, has just been credited with
developments at the Nos. 2 and 3 levels which
indicate the possibility, after further driving, of
good runs of ore being opened up. In the
past the . property produced nearly 200,0000 z.
of gold from 380,000 tons. Confidence in the
future is the keynote of a directors’ report.
If anticipations are realised, Gladiator,
formerly known as the Augusta, will become
an important producer in a year or two, promis-
ing values having been disclosed by diamond-
drilling at depth. A lot of gold was extracted
from the property prior to 1920. Boulder
Mining and Finance raised it from the dead
a year ago.
King Solomon’s Mines has had tests made
of its ore, and is to be equipped with a
treatment plant immediately. A case of trying
to run before being able to walk properly.
Coolgardie Brilliant has abandoned another
option, this time at Mt. Magnet. It has
several others under consideration, and the
board hopes to make “an announcement of
interest” before long. The co. has over £6OOO
in hand, besides a portable compressor and
what is described as a complete development
plant.
Marvel Loch and Gt. Victoria United have
joined together for better or for worse. The
amalgamated co. is well off for cash, but the
market is not at all certain about prospects.
Hill 50 started ore treatment a few weeks
ago, but has since had to stop in order to
sole and heel the mill foundations and make
minor plant adjustments. A 95 p.c. extraction
was claimed. Operations are expected to be
resumed in about a month. The co. has suffi-
cient ore in sight to keep a 2500-ton-a-month
treatment plant going for 24 to 3 years, and
the drill has established the downward con-
tinuation of the lode at 400 ft.
Gambier Lass, a Leonora venture, is now
examining another property in the same district.
Cash in hand at April 30 amounted ,to £11,840.
* * * *
Notwithstanding extraction of 129,000
tons for the mill, Gt. Boulder’s ore re-
serves bulged during the last term from
650,000 to 697,000 tons, with only a slight
decline in grade. The main gold-carry-
ing formations are to be tested below
present deepest levels, and additions to
the treatment plant are contemplated. A
sum running into six figures, derived
from the sale of reserved shares and resi-
due dumps, is to be earmarked to cover
expenditure, which means that divs. are
not likely to be interfered with. With
a little more development, the board be-
lieves that up to 25,000 tons can be
treated monthly.
* * * *
Accounts of Anglo-Australian Devel-
opment, the first of the De Bernales
Westralian group to be floated in Lon-
don, show advances to subsidiaries
amounting to £110,004. Mars got
£34,988, Apex £BOBO, Day Dawn £42,280,
Wheel of Fortune £14,376 and Leonora
£10,280. Shares in subsidiaries appear at
£145,551, and in other cos. (at cost)
£33,709. Cash in hand amounts to
£120,965. The co.’s banker figures as a
secured creditor for £48,187. Apart from
cash, Anglo’s chief assets are a fifth
interest in Yellowdine, a large block of
shares in Beryl, and the King of Creation
mine, which, like Yellowdine, is in the
early stages of production.
* * * *
Since production commenced Yellow-
dine,, star of De Bernales’s Westralian
firmament, has yielded £A27,687 from the
milling of 6817 tons. Residues, valued at
£23,812, have been stacked for cyanida-
tion in the future. The co. is sitting tight
on details concernings the promising
borehole development at 200 ft. until
further prospecting is carried out.
* .i= . * . *
Westralians are awaiting formation by
Herman Mandelstam of his proposed
£1,000,000 co. in London to take over
the Paddy’s Flat group, Meekatharra.
He was instrumental in raising English
capital for Tindals and Edjudina, and is
sanguine of getting as much for Meeka-
tharra.
* * * *
Reconstructed Westralia Renown is
trying again at Morgans (W.A.), where
the old residues are being retreated at
a profit. Underground development is
to be resumed and the mill restarted.
* * * *
Backed by an encouraging report from
geologist Dr. Wade, Freney Oil is
appealing to shareholders for £50,000
additional capital. Dr. Wade stated that
if two bores recommended by him were
put down they would solve the prob-
lem as to existence or otherwise ol
oil accumulations in the Freney region.
He added that approximately £lOO,OOO
would be required to do the job. Pro-
vided the Freney Co. can raise half this
sum, the Commonwealth Government
will find the other half.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
P.8.C.: (1) “A" co. appears to give highest
surrender and loan values. (2) “B” co. or
“A” co. (3) Don’t think so. But try “B” co.
(4) See “In Melbourne last week,” page 38,
for latest on Upper Watut. (5) The Elanuen-
Hyde controversy was running in “Society” a
few weeks back... .C.T.H. (Suva): Don’t know
the co E.H.W.: Co. operates only in Maori-
land W.A.0.: The money mostly went in
establishment, promoters’ exes., etc. The “bank"
never opened its doors... .J.D.D.: Leave them
alone J.1.H.: The write-up was not a recom-
mendation, but a statement of developments
intended to impart caution. The manager of
the co. was arrested, and later absconded from
bail. An official inquiry will probably be made
into the co.’s affairs J.H.W.: An American
co. has taken over the Big Bell mine; it isn’t
listed in Australia. Leave the other two alone.
Broke: (1) Leave them alone. (2) Don't
like them F.K.: Doubt whether you can
get it in Townsville, but write A.M.P. or
National Mutual, which do that type of busi-
ness W.E.H.: Get in touch with A.M.P..
National Mutual, T. and G., or Colonial
Mutual. They are writing house-purchase
assurance, among other offices. Your proposi-
tion may not appeal T.R.L.: Secretary of
Lancefield G.M. Co. is C. D. Finch, c/o
Gibbs, Bright and Co., 34 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .A.M.S.: Information not available.
A.X.Z.: Cannot say; not listed P.P.C.:
(1) Scrip is a gamble at present price. (2)
Ultimate value depends mainly upon results
present prospecting campaign 1.R.W.: (1)
Conditions in baking trade are the trouble.
Market for scrip may improve later. . (2) Hold.
. ...K.LJ.: Co. does not broadcast its figures.
. ...E.M.C.: Prospects further appreciation en-
couraging R.L.: If security is main con-
sideration, look elsewhere V.K.8.: Sent
samples to Q. Mines Dept, for analysis; you
will hear from them.


Fine as a fine liqueur
! sM
.
-i# m&mtmm
to *> n-
m
%
, Ov Old Blervd .
Tn-'fj- Whisky
M
17
mm
S ... ;
A ;
' •■■- ■■■• ■ ; :% u% mm ft**
• >• ■ • •• -■■■
-> mt «*, t;w4 te* «***
;x'
br<ssew<* w«ss
S*#*#. lioA x> . . <-
■Ml
mm
f'tai
** {! < ' «*A*' #' i > t ■>>»'>
**"#***« *** MftBM* J*K***P
* f,£, 11 <•**>«» #****.*<* • »«d Vt# M®"
AisL fH ’ "witto*
j*&* MHZ* t >* ***
*'**&?!> ! •*«»• i-- JW.'Wi
; ■
v>* *
T-Zk “****«
- - ■-'■■■'
v ,- SJS£
- : B x
M
' -<••
Nk
'
■:-.,: .
«*#
ķ
rjlime that brings changes, years that
mellow and make kind, crept quietlv
over the cellars where this White Horse
whisky slept. While it grew gentle and
genial; while it grew gracefully old. . . Untouched and unhurried
it waited and waited . . till full, rich aroma was fined to perfect-
ion; till fire was subdued to a deep, tender glow; till smoothness
and softness were velvet and dew. Until it could come to your
glass and your palate, as fine as a fine liqueur.
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale .


ABORIGINALITIES
“Otto”: Sydney’s Taronga Zoo desires
certain panthers in Singapore, but the Zoo
there will take only a lion in exchange.
Taronga is shy on lions but Perth has
one to spare, and this will be sent to
Singapore on a/c' Taronga. Singapore
will return, in addition to the panthers,
any particular beast Perth may require
as Taronga’s payment for the lion. It
would be interesting if the principle
became general, the sight of a Sydney
'Change pavement operator with a leash
of panthers being full of possibilities.
Possibly the R.S.P.C.A. would queer the
pitch out of consideration for the
panthers.
“Fang”: Wallace’s law says that
though the faunas of Asia and Austral-
asia closely aonroach a line crossing the
Moluccas neither crosses it and the two
never meet. There was an exception
at Taronga Zoo recently which has
resulted in the shortage of one possum.
Small Australian beasts have the key
of the street at Taronga and go every-
where by night and day. One took a
chance and entered the black panther’s
cage. The panther must have had a
nice, warm, eucalyptus-flavored meal,
for next morning all the keeper found
jn the cage was a perfectly good tail
Mih no possum attached.
* * * *
“Roly”: A tourist off the Kanimbla
in Townsville recently asked me for
directions to the Zoo. I could only think
of Johnstone’s private zoo about five miles
out. “Nonsense,” she said (of course, it
was a lady). “Why, I can hear the
lions roaring quite close.” Said lions’
roars were the clanking notes of the
slushy old Cape Cleveland dredge doing
its level best to deepen our ’arbor.
H*
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s bird comedian
the kea —though farmers think it no joke
on account of its acquired taste for sheep
and lambs—will soon add to the gaiety
of the Berlin Zoo. A German wool-
buyer took such a fancy to the comic
birds that he obtained the necessary per-
mission from the Government to take
back some specimens. The birds’ favor-
ite stunt is to stage a circus. The ma
bird appears to ask dad to keep his eyes
open ; then she does a back somersault,
repeating it again for his benefit; she
then invites him to try his wing at it.
Sheepishly dad essays the attempt, mulls
it and is then hustled offstage by his
spouse amid ribald laughter.
#** ■ *
“W.P.T.”: “You can’t beat a good
hot stone for cold feet,” old Andy re-
marked, putting a boulder in the fire to
get hot. “I always heat a stone and put
it in the bottom of the bunk before I
turn in for the night.” But Andy had
to sleep with cold feet that night. He
selected a lump of granite which burst
into a thousand pieces, scaring the life
out of the dog and putting a hole in the
bottom of the billy. After that experi-
ence Andy heated a dry billet of wood
in front of the fire.
*l* 'V V ¥
“Kerys”; Dad doesn't often listen
kindly to the swagman asking for a job.
But one got round him the other day,
and dad sent him down to the river
paddock to hand-weed it of sorrel, which
had made a first appearance in fair-sized
patches. During the afternoon dad went
to see how his new employee was faring.
There was no sign of him. Peering
harder, dad descried the weeder lying on
the ground, arms outstretched, hat over
his face. His hands were moving, grop-
ing round for sorrel plants, and when he
could feel no more near by he rolled
slowly over, replaced his hat on his face,
and began blindly plucking again. His
first intimation that dad didn’t like his
method of weeding was a violent kick.
He bolted straight over the nearest fence.
We still have his swag.
* *
“8.D.”: Fishing off Fremantle (W.A.)
I hooked a whiting to which a squid
attached itself. On leaving the surface
the squid released its hold, and the fish
came aboard minus both eyes, but other-
wise undamaged. 1 am wondering if the
loss of the eyes was accidental or
whether they represent the hors-d’oeuvre
of a squid’s menu.
$ * * *
"Goongarrie”; The most luxurious
“nap” I ever struck in the mulga was a
feather bed that “Stuttering” Mick
carried with him wherever he went.
“Sure, and it’s worth the comfort,” he
would declare. “Oi can bed down on
gibbers as big as a kerosene-tin and
devil the feel av them. Then stick it
into a chaff-bag and the ould camel
niver feels the weight av it at all.”
For 10 years Mick carted that feather
bed around. Then a bout of fever sent
him to try a couch of horsehair in the
Kalgoorlie hospital. He died. An old
mate inherited the bed ; his wife decided
“I put me and out , I tell y'l It Was THEIR place to give Way."
that the ticking was about due for a
wash, while an airing would do the filling
no harm. Tipping the feathers out she
got a nice surprise—3o one-pound notes.
No; Mick hadn’t planted them there,
for the stitching had been done with
feminine fingers. There was a story
behind it somewhere, but Mick was igno-
rant of it. Many a time he had perished
for a beer with the funds for a man-size
booze unwittingly in his possession.
♦ * * *
“Hollowlog”: Instinct in birds is not
infallible. For example, galahs nest in
the hollow casting of windmills, and
some of the young birds are unable to
get out of the nest when fully fledged.
Lately I liberated two full-grown young-
sters from different mills. In one case
there had been two chicks; but one had
died a day or so before the rescue of its
mate. In both cases the liberated bird,
though a bit shaky on the wing, was able
to fly.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: The Malayans have an
explanation for the sole being brown
topside up and white below. Years ago
one Hadji Selamat speared a peculiar-
looking fish, the like of which had never
been seen before ; it was flat and pure
white. Hunger soon overcame curiosity,
and so Hadji cleaned his catch and
dropped it into the cooking pot. When
the oil became hot the fish gave a con-
vulsive lean and landed on the floor of
the hut. The Malay returned it to the
pot, but again the fish jumped clear. This
was a clear sign to Hadji, so he took the
fish back to the water and released it.
Soon afterwards these fish became very
plentiful along the coast, but one side
always remained brown. This, accord-
ing to Ahmat, is the result of the partial
cooking received by the father of the
whole species during his few minutes
in Hadji's pot.
* * * *
“Luggers Mate": If the man who had
been chased by a shark while in a row-
ing-boat is a belief due for the axe, then
1 must have been seeing things. There
were three of us in the boat, and we had
just dragged a baby tiger aboard. A
nose arose over the side, and in three
seconds that shark was chawing like mad
into the gunwale of the boat. Bert
knocked it off with an oar, which he
nearly snapped in the process ; but Mrs.
Tiger took a dive and came up on my
side. We got rid of her by dumping the
baby back.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Number me among
those who have seen a king crow shot.
A few years ago Padthaway station
(S.A.) was having a rabbit-reduction
campaign and crows had gathered to
the feast. A lone crow perched about
100 yards from the tree where we were
having our lunch, and someone bet Leo
O’Lary that he couldn’t drop the bird.
O’Lary took careful aim, fired, and the
bird dropped, giving a harsh “Cark” as
he fell. Some other crows heard it,
flew over, inspected the carcass of the
dead monarch and set up a most mourn-
ful and peculiar cawing. The result was
astonishing. From near and far the
crows gathered, coming in long strings ;
soon hundreds were gathered in near-by
trees, raising a terrible clamor. Shots
fired at them made them take wing,
but they hovered around that spot for
an hour. Then all cleared out, and not a
crow was seen on Padthaway for weeks,
though there was any amount of tucker
for them. The dead bird seemed to be
no different from the other birds we had
shot. Ornithologists may laugh at the
idea of crows having a king bird, but
nothing can alter the fact that they will
hold a wake and will risk being shot
while holding it when one particular
bird is shot
*‘ * »
“All Ash”: Some of those “tall” Vic-
torian trees are only saplings compared
with certain of the Speck’s vegetables,
According to a brochure published by
the Tas, hardwood milling industry, the
peppermint-trees (Eire. are
admitted to be the tallest trees in the
world. Some have been measured from
416 ft. to 471 ft. in height, and one of the
species even reached 500 ft. In 1849 the
lipv T I Fwino saw over 100 of these
trees that were 40ft. in circumference, and
measured one which had a girth of 60ff.
at 4ft frmn the m-nnnd
at 4tt. from the ground. _ .
“Arjayar”: Australia must have gone
close to the record for the tree with
the largest girth, as well as for the tallest,
I have a photo, showing the King
Edward VII. giant which flourished in
the Cumberland Valley (Vic.). This
mountain ash was 70ft. round thb butt,
and upon hearing of it the present King s
grandad sent out a plaque that was duly
hammered - into its hide. A bushfire
finally wiped out what was probably the
only tree ever so honored by an English
monarch.
“L’Oiseau”: Big trees? A kauri pine
recently cut at Butcher's Creek and
hauled to Peeramon railway station.
Atherton Tableland, N.Q., went 28ft.
round the butt and in 60ft. contained
17,000 super feet of marketable timber.
It was solid throughout.
“Murramurra”: This scribe is aston-
ished to hear that bandicoot is un-
popular as an article of diet among the
natives in N.Q., and further on in the
Torres Strait islands. In the N.T. the
little beastie is considered a delicacy by
some whites as well as by all blacks.
When the writer was trepanging in the
far north a few years back he always
handed out a stick of trade tobacco to
any native who brought him a bandi-
coot. Blasted and stuffed with onions,
it is a dish fit for a king.
* * * n-
“W.P.T.”; “Cripes, the bloke I worked
for on Gundyroo station was the mean-
est cow I ever met,” Andy remarked. “On
Sundays he used to git us all out bird-
nestin’. No, he wasn’t after the eggs ;
we had to get back the wool out of the
nests that the birds had taken from the
sheep’s back.”
* si: *
“Beorg”: Cock-fighting (B. 15/7/’36)
the only form of “blood sport” in which
principals thoroughly enjoy themselves!
What of the old West of England sport
sometimes known as “hacking,” and
now presumably extinct? In that he-
man’s game the contestants wore steel
plates on the toes of their boots. The
modus operandi was to stand up and kick
one’s opponent’s shins until he was laid
on his back. Old hands often wore tighi
bands above their ankles to prevent the
blood running into their boots. The
greatest experts practised the crosskick,
which laid both shins open at one stroke.
Several attempts were made to introduce
the “sport” into the Cornish parts of
South Aus. in the early days.
* * -1= *
“Marra”; It’s not only when fishing
in closed waters that the wise fisherman
muffles his oars. I’ll admit that my
rowlocks are as silent as any poacher’s
when I go black-breaming on the
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.). The night-feed-
ing black bream are the most timid fish
in waterdom.
* * 'ft *
“Western”: .Savants of the C.S.I.R.
have established that the particular breed
of termite responsible for the destruction
of telephone cables around Perth really
does gnaw the lead sheathing away and
does not rely upon an acid secretion to
soften the metal first by chemical cor-
rosion. Subjected to high magnification
damaged sheathing showed distinct teeth
marks, and numerous particles of
metallic lead were found embedded in
the earthy material of the nests. Kept
in captivity a nest of these termites was
given a ration of wood encased in sheet
lead. At the end of three months they
had penetrated the lead and devoured the
wood. Very little chemical action had
been employed, but the bites of the
“insects” were clearly visible on sections
of the metal.
* # * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; I left a mare with a
young foal tied to a fence overnight. In
the morning the foal was strangled and
hanging from the rope, stretched taut
between post and mare. Evidently the
youngster had reached over the rope, and
attempted to withdraw under it. A jerk
of the mare’s head did the rest, and the
sight of the apparition swinging before
its eyes startled the excitable animal into
maintaining a continuous strain. She
was exhausted when I released her.
sj: ♦
“Pruner”: I have seen no queerer
host for mistletoe than a plum-tree
growing in a Hornsby (N.S.W.) garden.
Even when the branches are bare the
mistletoe retains its greenness.
* * * *
“H.S.G.”: Maybe 1 am out of touch
with the nomenclature of the present-day
outback, but in the course of 2000 miles
of travel in nor’-west Queensland —1500
with packhorses and the odd half-thou-
sand humping Matilda —I found that a
swagman and a bagman were animals of
different habits. Consequently it gets my
eoat to hear bagmen spoken of as carry-
ing the swag. The bagman proper has
a 'saddle horse and at least one pack-
horse (it is from the pack-bags he gets
his nickname). He accepts his rations
gratis, like gny other hobo, and is no
higher up in the social scale. But please
don’t confuse him with the swagman.
WIRE.
We use it for a host of things
In fifty different places,
For patching up the worn-out swings
Or mending broken traces-
It takes the place of missing bolts
And holds machines together;
It stimulates unruly colts,
And rivets up our leather.
It stretches rabbit skins galore.
And, though it bends a trifle,
We find it very useful for
A pull-through for a rifle.
It’s excellent for scotching snakes
Or making forks for toasting.
And, twisted, in a brace of shakes
Provides a grill for roasting.
It’s always there when parts give way
For lack of oils and greases,
And saves the trouble and delay
Of ordering new pieces.
Yes, fencing wire’s a friend indeed —
It keeps down our expenses;
We use it for our every need,
And —sometimes —in our fences.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNEL.


“Braceman”: “One o’ the narrowest
squeaks ever I saw down a well,” said
Harry, “was at the Hauffmeister, on
Rainworth station (C.Q.). I was on the
engine above pumpin’ her out; ole
Ned was below fixin’ the pump. While
he was messin’ about with somethin’ a
connection broke in the pipe near the
surface. Ned was on the platform near
the water level, and the pump was
workin’ ; wot 1 mean to say is
all the water was goin’ down the well
again on top of him. If I stopped
pumpin’, the water, risin’ in the well,
would’ve swamped ole Ned. If I kept
on pumpin’, the water from on top, plus
the stuff risin’ from below, was goin’ to
make things awkward for my mate. Ned
bellowed and tapped the pipe. I kidded
1 was a deaf Tin —I had an idea which
would take time to work out. It was
wintertime, gettin’ on towards sundown,
and 1 reckoned if 1 kept that column
of water failin’ it’d freeze, allowin’ Ned
to climb that icicle and escape from a
watery grave below. That’s the way 1
saved my old cobber. But, such is human
gratitood, the cow got narked ’cause ’is
mitts were a bit frostbitten. He hasn't
spoke to me since.”
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: A disused church is one
of the three buildings left intact in
Wolfram Camp (N.Q.). In the vestry re-
cently I talked to a gouger who had his
home there. He wanted timber for sluice-
boxes. “Why don’t you help yourself to
a pew?” I suggested. “Good God!”
was the reply ; “if a man did that he
mightn’t get any metal at all.”
V *l* »l* *i»
“Bouloum”: Although the sparrow is
mainly a town-dweller, I have seen him
right back in the parched nor’-west of
N.S.W. close to the Queensland border
and in many spots between the Lachlan
and the Darling. You will find him and
his clumsy nest in the rafters or apex
of the roof of any number of shearing-
sheds out there. I speak feelingly—there
is a nest above my wool table.
jji •I' *!•
“J. Scobie”: Some of our local s.-w. Q.
residents applied for possum permits and
waited patiently for July 1. But there
were not more than one or two caught
each night. An old prospector out in
the back country cleared up the mystery.
“Then cyaniding chaps were through
here weeks ago. Still, I don’t know how
they’ll get on about selling the skins.
You can tell a shot possum by the bullet
mark, while one that has been snared
shows a wire mark. And cyanide can
be detected by testing the dried blood
in the veins.” Can anyone tell me if
he’s right regarding the last remark?
* * *
“Shamuseen”: Til bet the “smoke
glasses” sported by “L.W.’s” abos. (B.
10/6/’36) to assist them in their sub-
marine fish-spearing were the regulation
“swim glasses,” habitually worn by the
skin-diving Torres Strait island boys of
the pearl and trochus fleets. These are
a Japanese product, and have horn side-
shields and thick lenses, which are affixed
to the eyes by elastic sufficiently tight
to exclude water. But there are several
knacks necessary to their efficient func-
tioning. Before donning them, Binghi
licks and then blows on the inside of
the lens. Then, when working below, he
always keeps the head tilted forward
at an angle of depression which prevents
the water from washing up under the
glasses. The glasses in clear water
(which term indicates the moon phase
when the tidal currents are stationary)
have a visibility range of four to five
yards. As Binghi sometimes spends an
aggregate of 12 hours daily in the water,
such protection for the eyes is essential.
* * * *
“Ruralia”: Skinflint's windmill was
put out of action. During the fortnight’s
wait for a new part Green, his neighbor,
“An not a girl to talk, Maggie, hut I really think it's time someone told her
fiance."
allowed him to water his sheep and other
stock at a' well, and also assisted him
at the windlass until a telegram sent
Green hurrying 300 miles away to a sick
bed. While he was absent Skinflint was
assisted at the well by Mrs. Green and
her daughter. Eventually Skinflint’s mill
was repaired, and he no longer drew on
Green’s supply. A few weeks later S.
was at the p.o. collecting mail, when the
p.m. asked him to deliver a telegram to
Mrs. Green. He met Mrs. G. on the
road five miles from the township and
12 miles from home. He handed her the
telegram and charged ss. for mileage.
She paid.
“H.E.J.”: The damage done by the
grub of the cane beetle seems to be much
underestimated. Besides the ruining of
cane crops, hundreds of acres of rich pas-
palum land on the Atherton Tablelands
(Q.) have been impoverished ; and the
annual plague causes a sickness locally
known as “beetle-itis.” They strip every
leaf off candle-nut trees, and all but
killed a couple of my young Queensland
nuts. So far man's best allies are the
bandicoot, the ibis and the Indian mina.
“Why don't 'ee ride un, cap'n?"
“S like this, boay. When Igo up'ill I get off to save the'oss, and when
I come down I get off to save meself."
“Grain”: The thinning of the once-
vast shoals of mullet which used to be
such a feature of the Brisbane River at
this time of year is troubling Queens-
land fish experts, who have half a dozen
explanations. Probably the correct one
is the great increase of shipping in the
river within the last generation. It used
to be worth while to stand on Victoria
Bridge and watch the packed hordes
slowly working their way upstream to
spawn. At this season the men who
rowed the ferryboats across the river
at a dozen place? between Bulimba and
Toowong never went short of mullet to
eat or sell. Rowing at night the fish
would leap at the light each fisherman
had to display, hung above his craft, and
many landed in the boats.
* * * *
“Ripley”: Four people can vouch for
it. Of a pair of thought-to-be-securely-
caged yellow budgerigars, one was re-
ported by Mrs. Next-door to be sunning
herself in the apricot-tree, surrounded by
interested and inquisitive sparrows.
Feminine attempts to catch her resulted
in total disappearance. Her lord (appar-
ently too bulky or lethargic to squeeze
through the bars) stopped at home, but
he kept up during the day a dispirited
chatter. Whether she was lured back by
this or wearied of the attractions offered
by the great open spaces will never be
known, but four and a half hours after
she was reported A.W.L. the wandering
lady squeezed herself back through the
bars of her home.
* * * *
“Comet”; I’ll back the American hog-
tie method against the Tom Fool’s knot
for holding your man. First the ankles
are securely lashed together, and then the
legs are bound with a series of hitches
right up to the thighs. Then the victim
is rolled over on his face, and each wrist
lashed to the corresponding thigh. Then
the arms are bound below and above the
elbows, and a few turns round the trunk
and neck to make all secure. That will
defy all your “escapologists.”
“G.S.L.”: The idea of a dingo bitch
enticing a tame dog away and then kill-
ing him after mating (B. 1/7/’36) is
absurd, but I can prove that the reverse
is often true. When the late David Lind-
say and I were taking the first mob of
camels overland to the Coolgardie fields
from Port Augusta (S.A.), 1 took a bull
terrier named Taipo with me. The dog
would race off on the tracks of any dingo
he struck; dogs he killed immediately,
but he would always try to mate with
a bitch. Afterwards he would rush in and
kill her by ripping her throat out. Many
other outbackers who had owned dogs
of fighting breeds —bull terriers, Aire-
dales, Irish terriers—told me theirs would
do the same thing. Dingoes which were
seen later indicated that some bitches
must have managed to escape after
mating, but J doubt if any bitch ever
escaped old Taipo.
, »■: *i : V
“Western”: The flock instinct of
birds. Fishing from a boat for taller
with a sinkeriess line, we were annoyed
by gulls swooping and picking up Ihe
bait. Finally one swallowed the hook
and had to be ignominously hauled on
board. Then the fun began. Persistent
quarrellers and thieves of each other’s
catch as they are, the gulls showed a
remarkable spirit of fellowship. Scream-
ing indignation, a flock gathered almost
instantly, wheeling round and round just
above our heads, their clamor bringing
every other gull within half a mile. “1
think I’ll take it home for my lawn,”
said one city chap, tying the captive s
legs. But a quarter of an hour was
enough. The flock simply wouldn't go
away, and fishing became impossible.
Their behavior to the released one had
all the welcome to the long-lost brother.
Yet two minutes later they were chasing
each other to win possession of the
trumpeters which other anglers were
tossing away on the beach.
* * * *
“Trapper”: Getting trapped in the
fork of a tree is a common death for
cattle, brumbies and sheep during a bad
season, but rarely for goats. Sheep, when
forced to browse on boughs of trees, slide
their front feet down when that bit of
picking is finished, and get their fetlocks
jambed in the fork. They can never get
away from that. Goats are bred dif-
ferently, being browsers by nature. When
they drop from a tree they don’t do
the dangerous slide down the bough. A
goat will always throw itself back a few
inches, and drops clear. I found the car-
cass of a trapped brumby. It had rolled,
and got its under hind fetlock caught in
a fork only a foot from the ground. By
the marks on the ground that doomed
horse had put up a terrific fight.
* * * *
“K.C.”: The sudden appearance of
redback spiders and similar crawlers has
puzzled others besides “K’bundah” (B.
5/8/ ’36). The redback, in common with
the rest of its web-spinning rela-
tives, indulges in aviation in its early
youth, and so populates areas far from
the ancestral home. There are few
patches of bush that do not shelter a
stray redback concealed in a hollow
stump or under bark, as a point of origin
for an invasion. A favorable wind will
drop a numerous population of young
aviators down in an astonishingly short
time. An abundant supply of food will
soon cause an increase in their bulk and
render their presence obvious to the most
casual observer. Put a crop of newly-
hatched' redbacks in a sunny place, and
soon they will begin to race about
as though possessed, each trying to reach
the highest point possible. Suddenly
one, more venturesome than the others,
will begin to pay out a tuft of the finest
filaments of silk from its spinnerets. As
soon as the threads provide sufficient
lift in the air currerlt, the little spider
releases its hold and is carried away over
the treetops in the wind. When the
spiderling feels that it has travelled far
enough from its starting-point or secs a
likely place to settle, it hauls in its para-
chute and descends.
DROUGHT WANTED.
The clouds roll up as black as pitch, there's
lightning in the sky;
Celestial guns their fruitful task perform.
And now in Boggahogortoo the cockies’ hopes
run high,
At witnessing the onset of the storm.
Despair will turn to joy; it means salvation
for the crops;
Yet one there is who'll view it as a bane—
Old Mick, who will, I’ll gamble, at the sight
of those first drops
Morosely curse the coming of the rain.
It matters naught to Michael that his tanks will
overflow,
And save him carting water from the creek,
And that on paddocks bare and brown the
grass will quickly grow
And scarecrow cows will soon be fat and
sleek.
His crop of corn will certainly be saved, but
ail these things
Mean nothing, for the one thing on his
brain
Is that grievous disadvantage which J. Pluvius
always brings;
And so he’ll curse the coming of the rain.
For, be it known, his missus, who is anything
but meek,
Takes boarders while her “lord” commands
a team
Of bullocks down the gully. There he camps
throughout the week
Hauling logs, a peaceful life in the extreme.
At home, poor man, he has to do whatever she
dictates:
He’s tried resisting, but it’s all in vain;
And that is why the merest sign of threatening
clouds he hates,
For Mick can’t M’ork his bullocks in the
rain !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


LYS
m
PROOF
MUMI MHI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
!
> ■*&■ ■---'»' - *w- ■.';''• ■■«» -m *> «• - Wte * , ***w<****&&44toe»*».
4^
iST
.'/- r '
£r *
s»» .
<i| i ,• -*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Heat 0 Tice: 17-19 Bridge Street, SyJiey
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE N ETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Sheep Prices.
“Wundi”; On the whole the Japanese
wool embargo has not affected sheep
prices adversely; but then season is
always the determining factor. And the
fat-lamb business now influences the
market in south-eastern Australia.
Mainly, however, the causes lie in the
progressive development of a good
season and the need of Queensland
stations, which are just getting over a
disastrous series of dry periods, to re-
stock. It is comforting to a point be-
cause, during the 1934-35 wool slump,
maintained sheep prices saved graziers
all over the Commonwealth. At the same
time the economic ideal is sheep priced
proportionately to wool.
In Queensland the winter has been a
good one. There have been relatively
few stock losses through cold, though
the fly has played its usual havoc, especi-
ally with breeding ewes. Central and
north-west Q. had good July rains ; herb-
age is plentiful. The falls ranged from
lin. to 4in. all the way from the N.S.W.
border to Cloncurry. On the border
in northern N, S. Wales there are tracts
in which grass is almost knee-high, and
the Darling Downs, which had a bad
spin for some months, has improved
remarkably.
Farm and station buyers are busy
everywhere. Young sheep—both ewes
and wethers —in some districts have risen
as much as 4s. per head in price. On
the Barcoo 15s. for young wethers and
17s. for young ewes are common prices.
About Hughenden, where a lot of re-
stocking is going on, and where the July
rainfall was from 3in. to 4in., six-year-
old cast-fov-aee dam-’ '-old for 17s.
and 18s. off shears and joined.
Up to a point the rise is healthy, but
a boom in sheep prices would have dis-
astrous reactions in future seasons if the
wool market were to fail to behave itself.
Mitchell, Flinders and Saltbush.
“Mataranka”: If Governments really
want to do something towards fodder
conservation in drought areas, a few
thousand pounds spent on Mitchell and
Flinders hay experiments would not be
wasted. I admit that. in some areas
where the grass has tufted cutting would
be difficult, but there are others, particu-
larly in western and north-western
Queensland, where a clean cut, uninter-
rupted by timber, could be obtained
over thousands of acres giving from 14
tons to 2 tons to the acre in a good
season.
Also, there are stretches round water-
holes all the way through interior
Queensland and the Territory where, in
good seasons, greener grasses might be
acclimatised and cut. And while there
would be loud laughter at the idea from
old hands I have a feeling that a million
tons of silaged or stacked Mitchell and
Flinders would be a very present help
in time of trouble.
Furthermore, it also seems that salt-
bush could be acclimatised in dis-
tricts where it is not now seen, and by
breeding and cultivation turned into a
superlative fodder plant.
I know one of the old Wentworth
homes on the Nepean a few miles from
Sydney where, in a remote age, some
western wayfarer put in a saltbush or
two. They now have luscious leaves
half to three-quarters of an inch across,
and their own grandmother would not
know them. Five years ago, it occurred
to me that a bundle of the leaves would
be useful to place in a cigar cabinet to
help regulate the temperature and mois-
ture. The leaves are still there, aromatic
and tasty.
Others besides myself are coming to
the conclusion that saltbush could be
used on a large scale in pasture improve-
ment, especially seeing that it is about
the hardiest plant we have. D. H. Wet-
tenhall, of Jerilderie (N.S.W.), in May last
year disced and harrowed an area and
planted several bags of Old Man seed
through a wheat drill. The germination
“It's all right, sir—I'm not using soap."
was good ; the plants are now I Bin, high
and vigorous and healthy. They have
not so far been grazed, but when they
are I’ll bet that there will be some very
fat and healthy stock on that farm, for
the bush has a high nutrition value and
is rich in minerals which a lot of other
native plants lack.
Unused Rich Lands.
“P.L.8.”: “Ron J.’s” dissertation on
part-used land (B. 12/8/’36) recalls a
personal experience. We had developed
a dairy herd in the Riverina to a 3401 b.
fat average on wheat land, and being
only a mile from the Murrumbidgee we
naturally looked round for rich alluvial
soil on which to grow summer green
stuff and lucerne hay. There was over
1000 acres of land worth £3O an acre
between us and the river. It was in
several holdings and only ran about a
beast to 10 acres.
After a lot of vain effort to buy, lease
or share-farm even 20 acres of this front-
age, we were eventually compelled to
transport the entire herd to the Goul-
burn Valley (Vic.), where irrigation made
the growing of regular feed possible.
This is only a typical result of the atti-
tude of owners of millions of acres of
fine soil.
They have come by the land cheaply,
and, as life is comfortable even with their
present “do-nothing" methods, they
refuse to put it to decent use, whilst
rural settlement is receiving a check and
young men go land-hungry.
Much of the best soil was selected
years ago and is locked up. If the owners
of this do not want to sell, there are
three prospects for them—to lease the
land, to share-farm it or else work it ex-
tensively with hired labor. Unless some-
thing like this is done, it is useless to
prate about continuing migration or
starting closer settlement again. We want
no more marginal land fiascos.
Land-hunger is very real in old
farming districts. Good men with plant
cannot lease ground at a payable price
because competition for available good
blocks is too fierce.
Lungworms,
“Ghanam”: This is lungworm season.
So when any young animal displays a
hacking cough, along with signs of suffo-
cation, scouring and loss of condition,
look out—particularly on the Darling
Downs (Q.) and the New England Table-
land (N.S.W.).
The large lungworm grows up to 4in.
long and is easily seen, but the finer
confines itself to smaller air passages
and is not so easy to recognise.
When coughing, which is about the
first real symptom, begins, the enemy
has been- at work for about a month.
It is a curious fact that the softer and
gentler the cough the worse the infec-
tion. A good, hearty, Chaliapin sort of
cough comes from very little worm ; but
where there is plenty of worm the effort
is hushed and sopranoish. Within 30
days of the beginning of soft coughing,
the victim often coughs no more.
Where there has once been lungworm
there may be more, for, though young
sheep are the victims, those that recover
often carry a few germs about with them.
Keep youngsters away from marshy
areas or from springs and creeks around
marshes. Watch out, particularly, if
spring season is a little wetter than the
ordinary. After the two-tooth stage there
is not so much need to worry about
infected animals.
Treatment is a little bit of a gamble,
except in mild cases. Sound feeding and
plenty of it is a good beginning. Add to
the ration and run the victims on lucerne
or other improved pastures if possible. A
windpipe injection in serious cases of
4 c.c. creosote (1 part), chloroform (1
part), turpentine (2 parts) and olive oil
4 parts) is recommended by Clnnies Ross,
of the C.S.I.R. Put the dose in between
the windpipe rings with a short-needle
hypodermic, being careful not to punc-
ture both sides of the pipe. Asa last
resource only, try inhalations —not chloro-
form, which some people favor. Put
the patients into a building and burn sul-
phur till they cough like grampuses, but
watch them to see that they do not suffo-
cate, and don't leave them alone while
being fumigated.
Calcium Deficiency in Milkers.
“Silky Bag": While most dairymen
admit its existence, the loss of calcium
and phosphorus by milking cows does
not seem to be appreciated.
The white substance in milk, casein,
is a protein containing calcium and phos-
phorus in almost equal proportions, much
as they occur in the calcium phosphate
of bonemeal. When it is realised that
we humans depend very largely on cow’s
milk for our bone-forming substances,
the yearly output of them from the cow
may be gauged.
There are few pastures or even dis-
tricts which produce feed rich enough in
lime and phosphorus to balance the
usual cow’s output of these chemicals.
An animal yielding 251 b. of 4 p.c.
butter-fat in a day will rob her system of
roughly 2oz. calcium phosphate, which
must be made up in pastures or hand-
feed.
Otherwise the
usual crop of
troubles, such as dis-
position to milk-
fever, soft bone and
rickets, are met with,
to say nothing of a
widespread annual
milk loss through
cows losing their
“lone.”
Phosphorus can
be secured amply in
pastures by top-
dressing, but in all
parts of this country
no cow can get more
than half her cal-
cium needs from
grass, and she must
be given more by
hand-feeding or licks. The former is
preferable because it is sure.
Bonemeal is not very digestible—about
40 p.c. It takes loz. (or a tablespoon)
for every gallon of 4 p.c. b.f. milk.
Lately, however, phosphate, 60 p.c. or
70 p.c. digestible, but containing only
29 p.c. of calcium, has been more suc-
cessful.
Of this, 2oz. (or two tablespoons)
daily will suffice for the cow giving 251 b.
of 4 p.c. b.f. milk.
Lucerne-sowing Hints.
“Doitnow”: Now is the time to sow-
lucerne —in the Riverina particularly.
The July rains have extended the season
to mid-September.
Use only good, plump, yellow-to-dark-
yellow seed.
Sow up to 81b. per acre on rich soil
flats, and as low as 21b. on grazing pad-
docks. If for hay exclusively, and ground
is exceptionally rich, sow up to 201 b.
This gives a thick thin-stemmed paddock
(“ Land" continued on page 24 .)


-DO YOU KNOW ABOUT
“start ability'
9
9
It’s new—just coined to express clearly the singular power of Atlantic Petrol to start your
car instantly, irrespective of severest winter temperatures. This power to start instantly,
hacked by power to sustain quick-firing, top-pressure performance permanently establishes
Atlantic Petrol as highest in its price group. That’s something you can prove yourself!
Something that already bears the endorsement of thousands of motorists who swear by
Atlantic winter and summer alike! For instant winter starting every time, follow the swing to
Atlantic Petrol.
The only way to get still greater performance with equal start ability (especially in high com-
pression cars) is to use Atlantic Ethyl , the A.l knockless fuel.
ATLANTIC
PETROL
V
AP6.48.36


Wm
%
money and time with an
ECONOMICAL BRITISH BEDFORD UTILITY
Put one of these economical Bedford Utilities
on your regular run and watch how it cuts
overhead and gets the job done quicker. Savings
in time release the driver for other work, and
savings in running cost and upkeep help to pay
Bedford’s low purchase price.
In the 8-cwt. range there is a model to suit
the small delivery business right down to the
ground. These smart-looking Bedfords are
THE LOWEST-PRICED 8-cwt. utilities in Aus-
tralia. And their low price is matched
most appropriately by a gratifying econ-
omy. The lively six-cylinder engine has
been showered with praise by owners
who consistently report 30 m.p.g.—
proving the practical value of such
petrol-saving features as the vacuumatic
spark control and the octane selector.
8-CWT. UTILITIES
Chassis Prices from
£2lO
12-15 CWT. UTILITIES
Chassis Prices from
£252
All Prices plus Tax
Then there is the 12-15 cwt. Bedford, a real
truck-built utility, at a price that makes it a
great proposition for builders, plumbers, station
owners and others transporting a medium load.
Its powerful 26.3 h.p. truck engine will pile up
huge mileages—and the cost per mile in oil and
petrol makes a pleasant comparison with
other utilities of comparable power.
Above all, Bedford Utilities are British —as
dependable as the finest brains in British auto-
motive engineering can make them.
Both the 8-cwt. and 15-cwt. utilities are
available in a choice of body styles to
suit any need : Open, Closed, Flareboard
and Wellsides Deliveries and Panel Van.
All Deliveries are available with Roadster
or Coupe type front. Ask your Bedfoi'd
dealer for full descriptive literature.
GENERAL MOTORS-H OLDEN’S LIMITED
BRITISH BEDFORD UTILITIES
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED BEDFORD DEALER
and prime hay. The poorer the soil the
less seed is needed. In all cases use at
least Icwt. super.
Use a combine. Put the front in about
lin. and keep the back out permanently.
Remove hoses, unless it is windy. Mix
the seed with the fertiliser enough for
one acre at a time, and sow through the
fertiliser box. Drag the combine har-
rows behind. This ensures an even sow-
ing, and prevents seed going in too deep,
which, in my opinion, is fatal. And use a
“fiddle” machine. It should not go in
deeper than 4in., especially for spring
sowing.
Don’t leave seed and super, mixed
longer than necessary, and never over-
night. It affects germination.
Very fine seedbeds are not needed. A
few lumps help to stop the paddock
caking after heavy rain. Lucerne does
not need fallow.
March and early April are other good
periods to sow, but give me the spring
for Riverina. I don’t believe in winter
sowing with cover crops ; but I wouldn’t
condemn them. 1 have always found
that spring sowing allows a quick get-
away and strong, healthy plants—no
fear of their dying of waterlogging. Also
it usually gives a strong feedable stand
by December.
In a cultivation paddock get a soil test
for bacteria before sowing. The Agri-
cultural Departments in N.S.W. and
Queensland will supply material for
inoculation.
More and Better Potatoes.
“J. Want”: Victoria has done a lot
of work on potato improvement, and
N. S. Wales is waking up. Not before
it is time. Belgium’s average off 190,000
acres is over seven tons to the acre;
Canada’s average off 590,000 acres is
4.3 tons. Most European countries rank
with Denmark. The Commonwealths
average is about 2.63 tons per acre off
150,000 acres, so that, by European
standards, a third of the present Austra-
lian spud land in use should produce as
much as the whole actually does, leaving
the balance, an equivalent of 600 farms
each of 160 acres, to carry other crops.
In Queensland, the average is only 1.59
tons per acre over 10 years. S.A. and
W.A. approach four tons, but their areas
represent only one-fifteenth of the total
under tubers.
There is nothing very constructive
about the new N. S. Wales plans. The
THEV ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
New England seed-testing station is to
be transferred to a private farm—that of
E. Scott at Red Range. The potato
expert, E. Wenholz, declares that
hitherto we have been content with
ready-made varieties of seed from other
countries; he thinks it desirable that
local varieties should be developed, par-
ticularly the round-topped red- or pink-
skinned kinds.
Actually, a little more importing is
called for —the importing of the inten-
sive technique of Scottish and European
Continental farms, and of the realisation
that elbow grease and fertiliser in plenty
are the secrets of high tonnages and
sound tubers.
S. Australian Tobacco.
“Steve”: The 1935-36 S. Australian
tobacco season has yielded valuable
knowledge about blue mould, which has
made tobacco hazardous in the past, and
sometimes wiped out the entire crop.
Early seedlings were chiefly attacked,
and, as planters depend upon October-
Novetnber rains for growth, the problem
was to get disease-free seedlings out dur-
ing theSe months.
The Agricultural Department made
available seedlings raised by the benzol
method, and also helped growers adopt-
ing the method.
A severe drought during the growing
period rendered the trial exacting, but
the 50,000-odd pounds of leaf cured
came mainly from the farmers using
benzol, and the quality is above the aver-
age. It appears that the open-bed method
is doomed, as blue mould claimed its
annual toll of the 0.-b. crop.
Some growers favor the compulsory
use of the hydro-carbon vapors or the
benzol method, and it is now anticipated
that finer varieties than the popular Dun-
gowan will be cultivated, where hitherto
blue mould prevented this.
Hints for the Farm.
“Andy”; A rough-and-ready bush oint-
ment for sores, wounds and bruises can
be made with kerosene and lard or faf
mixed in equal parts. If an ounce of
boracic acid is added, in the proportion
of six of the ointment to one of boracic,
it is useful for man or beast.
"Ek Dum”; The average moisture in
dry Australian wheat is about 10 p.c.
Grain which has not quite hardened at
harvest may run as high as 14 p.c., losing
4 p.c. on drying. So watch your wheat
condition.
“Zedo”: Every coastal farm should
have a peanut bed or field. The nuts
make a great table food, and if there are
enough the pigs will thank you for a
few in the ration. Peanuts thrive on well-
drained soils, from light sandy loam to
dark medium-heavy clays. But they
won’t stand frost.
“X.N.”; Bunny skins make a good
rug. Tan with 2dwt. saltpetre, 2dwt.
alum and arsenic in Igal. water for
12 hours. Drain the water out thoroughly
and finish off inside with neatsfoot oil.
“Win”; The best drafting race of my
experience—board sides and just wide
enough to take a large sheep—runs due
north. The fence joining the eastern side
runs e. to w., making a sharp corner
on the s. end, around which the sheep
can run. The fence that joins the s. end
of w. side runs from n.-e. to s.-w., and
the first Bft. is made of an ordinary iron
gate. The sheep are forced up the e.-to-
w. fence, and see through the iron gate
some of the drafted sheep stringing away
from the business end of the race. They
follow.
"Thorley”; The boot and stick are not
the implements with which to handle a
touchy cow. Grab her by the udder
behind and fairly high up. You will find
that she wants to sit down without resist-
ance. A really touchy one will go right
down to a good grab. Do that regularly
for a time and you will take the timidity
out of her —and will remember me in
your prayers.
“Taro”; Beware spring cold snaps!
Sheep that die of cold after shearing on
a well-organised property —which takes
proper precautions about shelter and
driving after wool removal—are usually
lost mainly for one reason —hunger. The
man or the sheep with a good feed inside
is always at an advantage. Hand-feeding
is a problem with big properties, but on
small properties where there is proper
fodder conservation full bellies, which
cost pence per head, save many sheep.
“Andy”: If a cow is down, she may
be paralysed. Then it is throwing her
away to drench her, for the muscles of
her throat may be paralysed also, and
the drench will run straight into her
lungs, with resultant pneumonia. If she
isn’t paralysed she must be “sat up.”
Safest rule is never to drench a cow
except on her feet.
“Ram”: There would be less milk
fever if the following ration were given
to cows a fortnight before calving, on
top of the usual roughage : Ground wheat
and oats, 1001 b. each to 451 b. oil meal,
handed out at the rate of 101 b. per feed.
During the last week cut out all silage
and maize, but increase the hay ration.
Then during the final two days omit
all the other rations and give only bran
mash and hay and warmish drinking
water.
“Andy”: Lucerne isn’t the only bloat-
producer by a long chalk, whether the
animal be a fat or a milker. Straw-
berry and other clovers, when in flower,
have been known to generate the trouble,
while sorghums and millet should be
fed sparsely, particularly if the stock
haven’t been getting their fill for a few
weeks, as is generally the case in the
summer. Turned into the paddock, they
will eat ravenously. Make it a bare half-
hour on the first day, the time being
gradually lengthened day after day.
Many cows, if they haven’t been getting
much food, will “blow up” on even extra-
luscious common grasses.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) About what time does shearing com-
mence in southern N.S.W. ? (2) Chief towns
in woolgrowing centres ? (3) Chances of em-
ployment during shearing season ? —2290.
(1) Shearing takes place in N.S.W. from
July till November, beginning in the far west,
n.-west and W. Riverina and finishing in the
colder tableland districts. (2) As wool- is
grown in every district of the State (very little
is on the coast), most inland country towns
are in wool areas. (3) Get in touch with a
shearing contractor. The largest is the Graziers
Co-operative Shearing Co.


SMOKE-OH!
“In the fur trade the rabbit has 75 different
names.”— Trade report.
Exclusive of those bestowed by
graziers.
•F *F *F *F
“Spinster sounds too staid —I’m sure un-
married women would prefer to be called by
another name.” — A woman writer.
Mrs. Somebody or other, for instance.
•F <F *F ■F
“It is torture for a great singer to know
that she has lost her voice.”— Musical writer.
And when she doesn’t know it’s torture
for her audience.
*F *F *F *F
“His harsh voice was the driving force be-
hind the whole business.” — Novel extract.
Hoarse power ?
•F *F *F *F
“Plaintiff said that after the assault he had
been in hospital for two weeks. His head
w'as still bandaged. He made his living as a
battle-collector.” — “Sun.”
For once the “Sun” seems to have been
right!
•F *F *F *F
"The sentry stamped his foot.” — “D.T.”
And then, of course, he was posted.
•F *F *F *F
“The rebels of Barcelona are well equipped,
having commandeered stores of steel helmets.”
—i Cable.
Protection for Barcelona nuts.
-F -F “F *F
The Birds and I.
The lark may rise while yet it’s dark
and soar to greet the sun. For me, 1 am
not like the lark
and don’t feel up
to one.
Each pair of
birds will build a
nest —I think that’s
nice to see. They
have to meet no
interest they’re
olagued not by
t.-p. / have to flee
my creditors,
although I’m sorely
pressed ; if once in
me they get their
claws I’ll do my
little nest.
Unhappily, I’m
not a bird, though
always up a tree.
I’m henpecked in a
way absurd for
feathered things to
see. They’re happy,
while for grub I
squirm: I’m just a poor old human worm
—a thing depressed, absurd, that always
gets the bird.
H. M.
.?« .% *
“Listeners get sick of the same old fare.”
—Wireless paper.
A.B.C. sickness.
4- 4. q. 4.
Memoirs of a Mouse-racer.
_ 4 , . .... „ , .
“Cat races are to be held in England. An
electric mouse will be used as ‘bait.’ ”
r, ,1 c 1 1 , r
Really, the English are very slow! I
worked out that idea years ago, and
then abandoned it in favor of mouse- (or
is it mice?) racing. Scorning the use of
an electric cheese, I procured a huge,
ferocious Stilton capable of moving of
its own volition. I then caught a number
of mice, and after several trials found
that they would readily follow the cheese,
but the trouble was they could catch it
100 easily. To give it greater speed, I
placed the high-powered dairy product
in a vat of whisky and let it stand until
the night of the opening meeting.
When the cheese saw its old tormentors
lined up it became livid with rage. Turn-
ing round, it pursued the rodents with
drunken fierceness. It assaulted them so
violently that the meeting had to be
abandoned.
After I’d repaid the clamoring patrons
their entrance money, I found I had just
enough left to renew my bottle-oh’s
license.
G. J.H.
•F *F *F *F
“Sparring partner knocked four times in two
hours.” — Sporting news.
His day of daze.
•F *F *F *F
“At the University he scowred many distinc-
tions.” — “S.M.H.”
11l fact, cleaned up all the degrees
about the place.
•F *F *F *F
“One man called the speaker a ‘silly owl.’
He took no notice.” — “Sun.”
Didn’t give a hoot.
•F *F *F *F
f ‘ ‘Women are thinner than ever,’ says a
doctor.”
No wonder they snap so much.
*l*
"Psychology in Motor Salesmanship.”
— Advt.
Auto-suggestion.
*F *F *F *F
“There is still doubt in the minds of the
English critics whether the team’s howling
strength is good enough.”— “Sun.”
Why, what’s wrong with Duckworth?
•F *F *F *F
“ T have lived on raw fruit and vegetables
for 17 years,’ said Brown.” — “Sun.”
That’s nothing. Our grandfather lived
on earth for 90 years.
*F *F *F *l*
“ ‘The Victorian climate doesn’t agree with
everybody,’ states a doctor.”
Not even the meteorological experts.
•F *F *F *F
According to the Ball and Chain.
If I am to believe what my wife tells
her friends, she had absolutely no inten-
tion of marrying, but I overwhelmed her
with the eloquence of my proposal.
Naturally, she married for love ; I had
won the lottery that year, but it would
have been all the same, of. course, if 1
hadn’t been worth a bean.
“Hey, mum, where’s dad? This ain’t the jam with
the rabbit-poison in it!”
She wouldn’t dream of marrying again
if anything happened to me ; no, not for
worlds. She abominates meals in bed,
but she does take breakfast there occa-
sionally, just to humor me ; she knows
how I like messing about with porridge
and eggs at daybreak these cold mornings.
She never bets —well, only when the
butcher tells her of a “good thing.” Pic-
tures simply bore her, but somehow she
consents to being dragged along to rhe
Regal-Regency every Saturday night.
Knowing that chocolates make her bilious
I will keep on buying them. Aren’t men
pig-headed?
P.C.
*l*
Biography in Brief.
Life.
Wife.
Strife.
Knife.
L. A. S.
An Unbiased View.
The great scientific rocket expedition
to Mars had completed a successful
flight, and the log was being entered.
“The people are similar to the inhabi-
tants of our globe, only the fashioning
of the garments resembling those worn
two decades ago upon earth. Their
architecture is similar in all respects to
that prevailing with us, and, strangest of
all, there is no difference in language,
English being freely spoken. In point
of scientific accomplishment, their only
superiority lies in
the extensive tele-
vision network,
which may, of
course, be dupli-
cated on earth by
now. But the cus-
toms!
“Barbarity and
selfishness of out-
look exist such as
we could not toler-
ate for a moment.
Martian politics are
corrupt beyond all
imagining; trade
warfare forms
merely an interlude
between brutalised
conflicts on an
enormous scale.”
Captain Swift
laid down his pen
as the navigating
officer knocked.
“Well?”
“That meteor we
passed on the way,”
comm enced the
navi gator “do
you recollect it?”
“Yes.”
“Well, it must
have spun us right
round. 1 have just
rechecked the
“There is no doubt, Wilbur, We Were just MADE for
each other”
chart, and on dead reckoning we have
landed right back on earth!”
Mac.
•J* -J* ►l*
“One of the conditions demanded in the new
maritime log claimed by the French seamen’s
union is that of wine with crews’ meals.”
— Cable.
Struggling for port.
•F *s* *F *F
“ ‘Can permission be obtained to conduct a
private lottery?’ asks a correspondent.”
Easily! Just get a marriage license.
*1- V T* 'T ■
“Middle-aged and elderly men are the best
patrons of frivolity shows.” — “Suit.”
In fact, they go for it baldheaded!
•F .4* *F 4*
A Strange Experience.
“Many years ago Broken Bay had a 16ft.
grey nurse shark which was a mate of the
fishermen. It would eat mackerel from their
hands, and occasionally would allow them to
scratch its back, seeming to like it.”
Personally, I am very averse to taking
such liberties with sharks. I have felt
that way ever since my horrifying experi-
ence at Avalot Beach.
I was week-ending at Harry’s cot-
tage, and soon after arriving we took
a boat out. After we had been fishing,
talking and so on for some while, a
tremendous shark came alongside.
It had such an amiable look in its
eyes that I felt myself immediately
attracted to it, and tossed it one of my
catches.
It ate the fish; then, no doubt en-
deavoring to express its gratitude, it
thrust its head over the side of the boat
in the most affectionate manner, and
allowed me to stroke its gills. It seemed
to like it.
Harry did not seem interested at all,
but I was quite thrilled. Growing more
confident, I decided to tickle it under the
fins, in the hope of making it laugh.
But that was where I made a big mis-
take. Evidently sharks have no sense of
humor, for no sooner had I taken this
liberty than it snarled savagely and
snapped at my arm. 1 swooned on the
spot.
I came to in Harry’s cottage, and was
puzzled to find my arm still intact. 1
asked Harry about it, but he only
laughed and said that it never happened,
and that 1 had been suffering from hal-
lucinations!
I might add that we took a demijohn
of O.P. with us, and rum always does
make Harry’s imagination run riot.
T. W. N.
Drawback.
Here is the spring, with joy a-wing—
Even the money seems to fly.
My womenfolk think joys of spring
Are only in the buy and buy !
Hamer.
•F *F *F *F
“It is stated that experience at Taronga Park
indicates that the polar bear is an indifferent
mother.”
This seems to answer the old question;
“Can a mother’s tender care cease
towards the child she-bear?”
“At the acquittal of a woman charged with
stealing her own furniture from her husband,
whom she kept by working herself, Judge
Curlewis said ‘This is the first time I have
ever heard of a man trying to send his wife
to gaol, and I hope it will be the last.’ ”
It may not be. He’ll probably sue her
for maintenance next.
*r• *F *F *F
Some Little-known Facts About
Spain.
11. —Its History.
In its long and turbulent history Spain
has been invaded by practically every
nation on earth except Australia and
Greenland. It was the scarcity of snakes
and goannas in Spain that turned the
scale against an abo. invasion, while the
Eskimos went cold on the conquering
spirit when they realised they'd have to
undress and put the oat out every night
instead of every six months.
The Phoenicians were the first in the
field. After they’d pottered about for a
few hundred years the Carthaginians
heaved them out. Historicides incorrectly
credit Rome with having taken Spain from
Carthage. The actual fact was that
Hamilcar Barca, the Carthaginian leader,
got a bit fresh with a senorita, who
nearly strangled him with her mantilla
(Sp. mantil, mantel; and la, prob. from
French oh! la la!). As every senorita
wore one, Hamilcar got the wind up and
withdrew his forces.
Rome’s chief idea in colonising Spain
was to encourage the emigration of fruit-
erers. The venture was fruitless, as was
the conquered country. Barcelona nuts
were found to be not so much a fruit as
a damned nuisance to open, while the
Seville oranges proved far too sour, being
usable only for making jam and, when
overripe, for elections. As neither jam-
making nor sliding ballot-boxes had then
been invented, Caesar had fruiterers re-
patriated.
In later ages the problem of the sur-
plus Roman fruiterer was solved by
Columbus and Captain Cook.
The fact that Greece never conquered
Spain has puzzled many historians, yet
the reason is simple enough. The Greeks
sent an advance agent, disguised as a
Greek, to investigate the possibilities of
establishing the fish-and-chip industry on
the Peninsula. He reported that
potatoes were not grown, as they weren't
as easy to pick as nuts and oranges, and
that fish wasn’t eaten; it being the
national custom to fall into a siesta half-
way through a meal, the danger of being
choked by small bones was too great.
Obviously the country wasn’t worth ex-
ploiting, so Greece decided against in-
vasion.
For 300 years after the Romans left
Spain was ruled by the Visigoths and
the Vandals. When the Vandals started
knocking perfectly good mountains about
to get the iron and tin out of them the
Spaniards appealed to Tarik, who walked
across from Morocco to Gibraltar at low
tide and took the country.
S.W. K.
Separation.
Before we parted, many a time and oft
f cursed you for the way you carried
on ;
My attitude was anything but soft:
Still, I am sorry now that you are gone.
hi spite of all your failings, we have had
Some merry times together. I must
own
7 hat you have greatly helped to make
us glad
At lots of merry parties I have thrown.
I’d have been kinder, less disposed to rail,
If only my affairs had let me know
That on the ninth instalment I would
fail,
And you’d be repossessed, my radio !
T.W.N.
“The naked fact is that a doctor must have
good clothes.” — Correspondent in "Sun.”
The naked facts of morning-coals
For me have very little thrill ;
And, since the metaphors are mixed.
Men’s overcoats still leave me chill.
But, when sartorial puzzles come,
The ones that I prefer to reach
Are girls who have on front to back
The backless costumes of the beach.
H.M.


Magnificent Coming Serial.
'ALL THAT SWAGGER"
By Miles Franklin,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1936,
will appear in instalments of about 20,000 words
in enlarged issues of The Bulletin.
First Instalment September 16.
Bright, Brief Australian Serial of Real Horses and Men:-
AMATHEA
BY Henry G. Lamond.
IT was night when a sound caused the foal to prick
its ears, to whinny softly and struggle to escape.
Sheba had returned. She stood beside her foal:
She nuzzled it. Deep down in her throat she crooned
to it. In her helplessness she walked about it, and
a dozen times climbed the bank, stood on top on the
firm ground and called to the foal to follow her. Had
she been a storybook mare she would have taken it
in her teeth and lifted it clear of the bog. But she
was only bush-bred, one of a brood, and though her
love was as strong and passionate as any mythical
heroine of fiction she could not do impossibilities.
Four o’clock the following afternoon she was
still there, unwittingly, by her trampling, securing
it against any prospect of escape. Warned by an
inexplicable and un-
analysed sense, she
lifted her head. On
the bank two red
dingoes looked down on
the stricken foal and
licked their chops.
Like a flash the
mare charged, squeal-
ing her anger. She
spun on a pin’s-head
space as she pursued a
dodging dingo, her
teeth snapped a bare
hair’s-breadth from the
back of the dog as it
swung round the trunk
of a tree. She smashed
at it with her battering
forefeet. She reared ; then, twisting and doubling,
turning and wheeling, she drove the dingoes over the
edge of the plain and lost them in the scrub.
Sweat lathered her sides and dripped to the
ground. She struggled for breath ; the wide flare of
her nostrils heaved red. She lifted her head high,
snorted her anger and her challenge. Then she started
to trot back the couple of miles to where she had
left her foal.
Midway Bluff Downs met her. Her resistance
was futile. The stallion merged her with the brood
again, and with almost devilish canning kept beside
her. Yet, after a dozen attempts, Sheba sneaked out
of one side of the mob and galloped wildly. As she
propped on the bank of the creek two red figures
slunk away from the remains of what had been a
foal. The air was heavy with the scent of blood.
Through it drifted a faint tinge of the odor of
dingoes,
A BOUT the end of March Cascade left the brood
' on her secret mission. She had selected a clump
of gidya-trees out on the downs below Pigeon Bend.
She went there. Just as the sun was setting she
nickered softly and lowered her head to lick a wet
bundle of life which lay on the ground before her.
Crooning incessantly, mumbling softly, talking in
her own language, she ignored her pain in the happi-
ness which had come tc her.
A chestnut filly, marked similarly to its mother,
staggered to its feet and stood swaying on tottering
legs. It took a stride forward, tripping uncertainly,
and then its little pink tongue slobbered its mother’s
chest between her front legs.
Cascade was uneasy. Perhaps she was slightly
embarrassed. She nuzzled the thing with her nostrils,
and in raking slabs which shook the foal’s frail body
all over she licked it from end to end. . She pushed
it away from her chest gently; took a long stride
forward and brought its nostrils level with her flank.
The little thing nuzzled with renewed energy. It
slobbered lustily, and when its head was hidden under
its mother’s flank it staggered on its weak legs from
the energy of ecstasy. Its absurd wisp of a tail was
held horizontally, and it bumped vigorously and slob-
bered and gulped in its contentment.
Cascade stood with one hind leg eased, exposing
her udder to the foal. But the wonder of it all could
not let her rest quietly. A dozen times she turned to
caress, and the foal had to regain the udder. And
all the time Cascade talked to it, crooning, mumbling,
whispering and gurgling softly.
The foal drank and drank—drank until its wee
paunch swelled, and it braced itself wide to support
itself. Then it turned round once, bent at the knees
and hocks, and with a grunt dropped to the ground,
it stretched itself out straight, and almost on the
instant its eyes shut and it slept.
For five hours Cascade never stirred save to
switch her tail incessantly and occasionally to lower
her head to smell the sleeping youngster on the
ground. The sky in the east was reddeniifg when
she lowered her head again. This time her nostrils
lightly brushed the foal behind the wither.
Ten thousand times ten thousand generations had
taught the foal the meaning of that signal. Instantly
it struggled to its feet, alert and with its ears pricked.
Then, with all the confidence imaginable, it went to
its mother’s flank again.
This time the novelty of the position had worn
from Cascade. She let the foal drink quietly, standing
in a manner to give it the greatest ease. But when
the foal was little more than what it might have con-
sidered half-way through its meal Cascade moved
forward
With a long, lin-
gering and drawing
squeeze the foal let its
mother’s teat slide
through its lips. In-
stinct may have taught
it the inflexible rule;
The only full drink
allowed was that imme-
diately following birth ;
after that all drinks are
cut short by the
mother. It was a simple
rule, and beautiful in
its simplicity: A full
drink brings on a feel-
ing of contentment and
a desire to sleep which
is not suitable to the
mare who may wish to
wander; a half-drink leaves the foal with the desire
for more and with the inclination to follow the source
of the supply—its mother.
CASCADE walked out on the downs and headed
for the fly-ring above Camp Oven.. She knew she
would find the brood there. The little thing stepped
bravely, its head held jauntily. The small mane
rippled in the wind, its legs plaited uncertainly. Its
short tail, the hair still crimped in waves, was arched.
It looked with wonder about it, and it seemed to take
an interest in what it saw. But, be at fear or caution,
it hugged its mother’s side, and that comforting touch
was against it all the time.
A few hundred yards from the brood, and even
as Bluff Downs was sounding his neighing call of
challenge and welcome. Cascade stopped short. A
man was riding across the downs towards her! With
the inherent fear prompting her, which all young
mothers feel for their first young, she turned from
the brood and raced towards the creek.
The foal’s long legs were seemingly tangled in
complicated knots, and it appeared to have a diffi-
culty to retain its balance. But it kept beside its
galloping mother. More, by some weird sense it kept
on the opposite side of its mother, keeping her all
the time between it and the unknown danger.
Like a streak of flame in his action, Bluff Downs
left the mob. He gathered in the flying mare, swung
her, and in one stride he had her wheeled and racing
towards the brood. He merged her with them while
he raced round to steady some mares which were
inclined to run away. Then he stood out clear to
look at the horseman who was riding past.
AT the head station Harry knocked at the door of
the manager’s office.
“I come by th’ brood in Mingeri this mornin’,”
he announced.
“Eh?” Kilgour asked. “See Cascade? She must
be near foaling.”
“A chestnut filly born last night, I think.”
. “What’s it like?”
“Same markin’s as its mother. Strong. Big bones
an’ joints.”
Harry reported on the brood. When he had
gone Kilgour took Cascade’s pedigree down from its
nail on the wall. He considered it, talking of her
breeding to himself. After a long soliloquy he added
the name of Cascade’s foal. He called it Amathea.
Chapter IV.
NURSERY DAYS.
WHEN Cascade look her place in the brood Bluff
Downs followed her among the mares. He
played about her, curvetting and squealing his
pleasure. Then, the first wild outburst of joy having
passed, he took station on the outside of the ring and
stood head-and-tail with old Clara.
Cascade was nervous. This was her first foal. It
was the most wonderful thing in the wide world. She
was fearful for it, and sooner than stand head-and 7 tail
in comfort with any other obliging mate she preferred
the discomfort of the flies so that she could stand out
clear and attend to her baby. She started in alarm
every time it moved. Every minute she nuzzled it
anxiously, and she crooned to it incessantly.,
Other foals came to have a look at it- —the
matrons were so used to youngsters that the novelty
had long since passed into monotony. When strangers
approached it the little thing spread its legs wide,
jambed its tail tight, lopped its ears, rolled the whites
of its eyes, and with bared teeth commenced a jerky
clock-work champing with its jaws. It was all very
fearsome and inspiring, perhaps ; but at the same time
it was just a little ludicrous. .Still, it was the Law!
All foals did it, and continued to do it, up to an age
of eight to ten months.
Exactly like a new child at a strange school,
that little foal had to find its footing. One day passed
—two —three —and in a week it was absorbed as part
of the play-team of foals. It made its own particular
mates and friends ; it had its dislikes and peculiar
aversions ; it took part in mock fights and put its
whole heart into the games which were played. Its
mother was its protector, its guardian, its food supply
and its adoring slave.
Repetition never seemed to stale the variety or
to drain the depths of that wonderful affection! Old
Babette had mothered ten foals—six by the previous
stallion and four by Bluff Downs. She rejoined the
brood with her fifth Bluff Downs foal —a tottery-
legged little chestnut-staggering at her side. That
old mare saw all the wonder of Heaven in that new
foal. She guarded it as soliticiously, as earnestly, and
the love-croonings of her soft whinnyings were as
constant as any mare with first progeny. The past
was forgotten, and all the wonders of the previous
foal were lost in the joy and perfection of the present.
Truly, when seasonal conditions are good, the lot of
a young foal is much to be envied.
Early in April the first tinge of winter came,
The flies abated noticeably, and with the grass still
carrying a streak of green, and at its highest state of
nutritious content, the brood literally lolled in comfort
and ease. They were sleek, shining, strong and m
great heart. The foals were commencing to rubble
SYNOPSIS.
This story, by one of the finest of Aus-
tralian nature writers, concerns the breed-
ing, station training and subsequent rac-
ing of the mare Amathea, who makes her
appearance in this instalment. Kilgour,
manager of Meetucka ( Q .), buys the
blood mare Cascade and sends her to
join the mares running with the station
stallion Bluff Downs. At lladda races
Bluff Downs progeny, prepared by
Meetucka’s head stockman, Peelben, do
well, but Linen Duster, a mare, owned by
the foxy Evans, breaks down. Reluctantly,
disliking Evans, Kilgour agrees to put
her and another of Evans’s racing mares,
Sethia, to Bluff Downs. Incidental to
Amathea’s story, the author depicts the
authentic horse and general life of the
station. In the opening instalment
Sheba’s foal is bogged, and Bluff Downs
relentlessly drives the mother away.


daintily at short pickings, and the fullness of their
mothers’ udders was a supply which never ran short.
They played. They raced. They bucked and skipped
and fought.
They followed their mothers to water. Prompted
by curiosity, the little things sniffed that strange fluid
which lapped their fetlocks, and which their mothers
swallowed so eagerly. Then derisive little nostrils
were curled while the little head was held high, and
almost it seemed those cocksure youngsters laughed
in silence at the thought of drinking such insipid stuff
while full udders of mellow milk were theirs" for the
taking. Life was good.
it was good to roll in the soft dust on the clay-
pan above Camp Oven. It was good to wriggle in
ecstatic pleasure and to paw the air with dainty hooves
while the hot grains of fine earth tickled the skin.
Particularly was it good to gather together in the faint
light of early dawn, when all
was fresh and crisp, and to
race endlessly over the dewr
less grass while panting
mothers labored behind in an
effort to catch up—calling,
all the time calling, to way-
ward youngsters to return
and behave properly. There
were a dozen things every
day which required investi-
gation. The foals would
gather in curious circles, deli-
cate nostrils extended. They
would walk warily and take
fright, scampering in mad
delight from a bogus terror,
or they would return sedately
to their mothers’ sides, the mystery solved. All life
was good.
I ATE in May they were mustered for branding.
■ L —’ This was a ticklish operation. Bluff Downs was
an intolerant lord of his harem who had to be
humored. The foals themselves were living crackers
enclosed in soap bubbles. The mares were on the
tenterhooks of anxiety. All required their own special
handling, each method differing from the other, and
the whole had to be combined and handled as one
unit.
Kilgour, a natural horselover, shook his shoulders
and shed his office worries. He went out with the
men to muster the brood. Mustering them was easy—
the stallion kept them all in one mob and there were
no stragglers to hunt and find. Handling them was
a different matter.
“I’ll steady the lead, Harry,” Kilgour called,
wheeling his mount and riding in front of the driven
horses to prevent them racing. “Look out for old
Bluff. Sometimes he don’t like a man riding ahead.”
The mob jogged along, Kilgour riding in the lead
and steadying them. A dozen times Bluff Downs
came out, his neck arched, snorting and pawing the
ground, to have a closer look at the man in the lead,
perhaps to usurp that privilege, and, generally, to
demonstrate to the mares that, though in bondage, he
was still the lord of the mob. The man in the lead
dared not pay too much attention to the horse lest
he give that animal a false idea of his position—few
animals can detect fear in a man quicker than a horse,
particularly a stallion. At the same time, Kilgour had
to be alert, his eyes looking behind, as it were, in case
ot a sudden rush.
“Hairt, th’ horse! Steady, th’ old stallion!
Whoa, th’ mares!”
Odd fools of foals caused a little trouble at the
gates. They raced blindly along the fence, unable to see'
the opening through which the mob had passed. That
threw the brood into disorder. Other foals caught
the infection. Old mares, just settling down nicely
and accepting the inevitable, were sure their individual
foals were being killed. They whinnied and galloped
aimlessly.
It was the stallion who restored order.
He swept those mares together, checked others
which were inclined to break. He steadied the
whole mob, stood there, arrogant, defiant,
picturesque with the wind playing through his
mane and spraying his tail, and he declined
to allow them to move until they calmed. It
was the instinct of his sex and breed asserting
itself.
~P HE mob was yarded and left there the
night to steady off and cool down. Next
morning Kilgour perched himself on the top
rail of the pound yard as the branders came
through with their dams. On his knees he
balanced a book, and in it he made note of
foals and descriptions.
“Bay filly. Faint running star. Near hind
stocking and off hind heel white. By Bluff
Downs from Pattie. Branded U9L over 138
near shoulder. Foaled November, last year.
Good egg! Let ’em through into the round
yard, there. One, three, eight is the number,
Harry—one, three, eight.”
In the round yard old Pattie edged about
the rails carefully. She was not excited —she
had been there before. Harry, standing in the
middle of the yard, with a headrope coiled in
his hand, worked things until he had the foal
running nearly abreast with the mare, though slightly
ahead of her, and on the outside. With a hissing sigh
a loop flew through the air, hung for a space while
hovering over the mare’s wither, and dropped over
the foal’s head and round its neck on the other side
of the mare.
“Pull headrope,” he snapped. “Don’t open that
gate to let th’ old mare out, Mick, till we get th’ foal
more'n half across th’ yard.”
As the loop fell on it, and was snapped tight, the
foal gave a wild leap, landing stiff-legged six feet out
in front of its mother. It gave another wriggle and a
twist, sprayed a shower of dust, and with a squeal
it left the ground again. This time it chafed its
mother’s chest with the rope. She caught the excite-
ment and, flabby old fool that she was, she also
commenced to career madly. The foal spun like a
Catherine-wheel. It screamed its fear and yelled its
rage. -But, each time it plunged, and every time it
gave any slack on the rope, it was dragged a few more
feet towards the branding post.
“Open that gate, Mick, an’ let th’ old mare out.”
Pattie ran out, glad to get away from the terror
of the yard. ; Her old flanks flapped.-and she whin-
nied to her foaff . She ranged up and down outside
the rails in an effort to get back to the yard which
, she had left and-where her baby was undergoing the
torments. ■ ,
The foal was panting in whistling gasps, its hea’d
held forward oh its stretched neck, and its forefeet
stuck out proppily in front. It swayed as it stood, arid
already spurts of sweat were
breaking out omit. . .
“Get in on the thing,”
Kilgour called, “Blast it,
man! Don’t get playing
quoits with it! Get right in
on it. A choking foal won't
kick. That’s the style.”
Joe slipped in, leant
against the foal, and by his
own weight cast the thing off
its balance,
THE work went on.
Kilgour kept an even
and disinterested voice, in
spite of a feeling of pride
when he took the descrip-
tion: “Chestnut filly, clean-cut crooked stripe on face,
two fore and near hind feet white, by Bluff Downs
from Cascade. U9L over 146 near shoulder. Foaled
during March.”
“One white leg, buy a horse ; two white legs, try
a horse ; three white legs ” one of the men com-
menced to chant the old quatrain.
“Three white legs, look about him,” Kilgour
interpolated, “Very well, look about her. She ain’t
three months old yet. She’ll invite inspection. She’s
right.
“I don’t think we’ll rope this thing, Harry,” he
added. “She might hurt herself. I used to be able
to throw ’em without ropes. I think I can still do it.
Catch Cascade and put a bridle on her.”
The mare was bridled. She was led out of the
yard. Kilgour, standing near the gate, crowded the
foal over as it tried to follow its mother. Then
things happened in a hurry. Cascade reared, struck,
and tried to get back to her foal. She was snapped
out and the gate was slammed in her face. Kilgour
leapt and threw his right arm over the foal’s neck,
just in front of the wither. He swung his hip round
under her neck, and with his legs propped out in
front he checked her plunges. Swinging, he swept
her muzzle over the crook of his right arm,
and, pressing down on her neck with his right
hand, he lifted her muzzle and turned slowly
to the left.
The foal stumbled, recovered, tried to fight, and
sank on its buttocks —that paralysing weight on its
spinal column, just in front of the wither, numbing
it. The man rolled it over on its side, holding its
head twisted up, and Harry dropped on its flank and
whipped its tail through its hind legs. The foal
squealed and tried to fight. But it was helpless—its
master nerves were held as in a vyce, and it had to
submit. And not one hair of its small body had been
displaced, its skin was not scratched, and it had not
sprung a sweat!
On his perch on the top rail Kilgour filled in the
description of the newly-branded foal. He smiled to
himself, and in the colifmn reserved for the name
he wrote: “Amathea (Amie).”
Chapter V.
A MEETING OF KINGS.
FATTER SINGH hobbled his camels and left them
while he prepared his stall at the course in readi-
ness for the races next day. He was barely out
of sight when a big old bull stretched himself,
lurched to his feet, and with the last heave of his
widespread front legs snapped a rotten hobblestrap
above his knees.
The bull shambled away from the mob into the
coolabah-trees along the riverbanks, wandering aim-
lessly. He sought satisfaction. He did not really
know what it was he wished to satisfy. He only
knew he wanted company and loathed it at the same
time. He wanted to travel, and found no pleasure
in travelling. Food made no appeal to him, and he
stalked blindly through scrubs of the most tempting
gidya-trees—that ambrosia of the camel world. He
was discontented, dissatisfied. He was- prepared to
fight.
Late in the afternoon he heard the music of bells
ahead of him,' out from Corella Hole. He ambled
on eagerly. To him, in country where camels carry
bells, it seemed to have meaning.
As he. burst through a fringe of trees he came on
a team feeding on an open flat. It belonged to Red
Dick, the big-gun carrier.
Some of those horses were used to camels. They
paid no attention other than to draw a little closer
together and to keep an eye on the wanderer. But
Rory was no ordinary horse, as anyone could hear
when Rory’s owner was feeling the effects of the
publican’s efforts on his behalf.
“I’m th’ gun carrier on th’ roads,” Red Dick
would announce vaingloriously. “I’ve got th’ best
team, an’ me stallion’s th’ king of th’ track. Where
1 camps all th’ other carriers has to make way for
me. Rory, me stallion, can beat any other horse on th’
roads. Rory’s a stallion! He ain’t none of yer make-
weight rubbish. Rory takes a twenty-four inch collar.
An’ he fills it, too! When Rory gets down to it an
heaves he makes th’ chains crack an’ ring again. I've
got th’ best draught stallion on th’ roads —a real
draught stallion —an’ when Rory gets out on th’ walk-
about other stallions has got to make way for him
or get chewed up! Fill ’em up again. Here’s to Rory,
th’ king of th’ roads!”
Still it was no shame to Rory that, when thai
ghastly apparition bore down on him—that fearsome
wonder from an unkocwn world which carried an
abominable scent pregnant with terror —he swung and
blundered after a mare which suddenly bolted.
Rory galloped, rolling in his stride, his great
bunches of muscles cording and springing and his giant
hooves striking rolling thunder from the ground be-
neath him. He stopped once, his sides wet with sweat,
his breath coming in great gulps and his flanks heav-
ing. He swung about, his head high and the wind
playing through his mane. Then his nerves broke
again, and he continued his headlong flight.
The camel continued his aimless wanderings. He
had long lost the reverberations of Rory’s hoofbeats.
0 ORY blundered on, stopping occasionally to listen
1 V and again turning and continuing his flight. He
had dropped his mad gallop and trotted. He did not
know where he was going. His nerves were shaken ;
he had lost his reason for the time being. His one
desire was to get away from the horror of the camel.
Night came. Suddenly Rory faltered, tripped,
sprawled forward and recovered himself. There
was a twanging of wires and jangle of strands. He
had fallen over a fence in the darkness, sustaining no
hurt other than a little hair chafed from above the
knees.
Rory was moved to a fresh burst of terror, but
he collected himself, swung about on his hind legs,
turned to face what might be following him. Across
the night he sent his stertorous snort of challenge.
The nameless terror had left him. He was a
horse once more. He held his head high, his ears
pricked, his eyes blazed. He looked his part.
Gradually a soothing spirit took Rory. There
was a reassuring scent of horses in the air. The pads
of their travelling were on the ground before him.
Rory lowered his head and commenced to crop
the grass. He sought the tracks of other horses, and,
in the manner of his sex and kind, covered them with
his scent. He fed contentedly along the pad, following
it to water. He reached the water and drank peace-
fully. He came out on
the bank of the hole
and rolled in the dust.
Then, perfectly at ease,
he picked up the tracks
again and followed
them out to where his
senses told him the mob
would be gathered.
It was early spring,
with a good season and
rich food, and Rory’s
blood was running red
and hot in his veins.
He wanted company.
He wanted more than
.company —he desi red
mates.
I UST as the sun was
rising, and even as
the morning breeze was
ruffling the leaves of
the trees, Rory came
out on the plain above
Camp Oven Hole.
About thirty horses
were gathered there.
his sense o( smell, lold him of them. °if
not all, were mares. He swung round a little clump
ot gidya and stood clear.
Rory was a glorious sample of his breed He
was a rich bay with black points, his face blazed
with the Clydesdale mark. He was big without being
huge, heavy without being massive; tremendously
powerful without loss of activity. His muscles drew
up in great bunches and swelled under his skin, and
when he arched his neck and bowed his head living
waves rippled along his shoulders and crest.
{Continued on page 50.)


A Great Australian Story
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
By Miles Franklin,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner
for 1936.
Owing to its size, the big sweep of its
story and its many characters —greatest
of them Danny Delacy and not the least
his “brave Johanna” —this splendid
novel will be presented in instalments of
about 20,000 words in enlarged issues of
The Bulletin.
First Instalment, September 16.
WFWWn
1
i! i ,'Tihiifii
'i 1 1 j
m
w.
£l6/10-
(COMPLETE)
It is built for roping
and is fitted with
leather breast collar.
It is double-rigged,
having one cord cincha
and one leather cincha.
The leather is a nice dark brown,
neatly basket-stamped, and the bastos
are lined with woolly sheepskin.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
No. 90 —Cowboy Bridle with swelled
front, nose and cheeks profusely
studded in brass. 55/- without bit.
Post, 1/6 N.S.W.; 2/6 Q’land, Vic.
No. 91 Studded Breastplate, to
match bridle. Price, 60/-.
Post, 1/3 N.S.W.; 2/- Q’land. Vic.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue No. 361 for full
list of Cowboy Gear.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THERE’S COMFORT
IN THIS
BOOT.
THAT is, if you prefer
Boots. Many men
still do, and for this
reason Abbeys stock
this medium-weight boot,
in Black or Brown Calf.
The fit, comfort and
wear of this boot are its
outstanding features, and
we’ll be pleased, too, at
the satisfaction you receive.
Stocked in full and half sizes,
k
PRICES;
BLACK
BROWN
39/6
42/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
W.A. 43.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
A Closely-observed Character Study:-
MISSION
BY F.S. HIBBLE.
THE lean, dark man sitting on the
grass seemed satisfied by the contem-
plation of himself in the small mirror
which he held pinched between his knees.
Nobody in the town would recognise
him with this unruly mop of black hair,
the long beard seemingly made darker by
a lashing of silver hairs. Mary would
remember only the clean-shaven fellow
who had been almost fussily particular
about keeping his hair trimmed. He
chuckled.
The sound made Limpy Joe look at
him furtively. “What’s got into yer?”
Limpy asked. “Yer like a blinkin’ galah
preenin’ ’isself after a sun shower.” He
thumbed rubbed tobacco into his burned-
down pipe, leaned over to light a twig
in the embers of the fire. His scowl
formed a myriad wrinkles on his small
face, making his grey stubble more pro-
nounced. “Yer ain’t goin’ on another
bust, is yer?” he added.
The dark man did not look up.
“Maybe,” he said vaguely. “It all
depends.”
Limpy Joe exhaled smoke reluctantly
from his lungs, and glared at the low-
level bridge as if disgusted with its con-
struction. The pair of them had dropped
their swags in this sheltered bend of the
river earlier in the afternoon, because it
had looked to be a good camping place,
and there was quiet here. The gravelled
road swept across the white bridge in
front of them.
“This ain’t the place where yer left ’er,
is it?” asked Limpy. “Sure it ain’t it.
Snow?”
Snow looked up at him, and as
quickly looked away again. Limpy
sucked loudly at his pipe. “Don’t go an’
make a fool of yerself. Snow.”
“There ain’t no fear of that,” Snow
returned gruffly. “She chucked me.”
“But yer goin’ to see ’er again, ain’t
yer?”
“Maybe we might bump her”
“Yer damn’ well know yer wants to
see ’er.” Limpy was letting his feelings
run away with his tongue. “Ain’t yer
been as nervous as a colt fer a couple
of days? Ain’t yer? Why’ve yer been
admirin’ yer mug? ’Cause yef want to
see ’er. I ain’t blind.” He spat loudly,
drew the back of his hand across his
lips.
“ ’Tain’t that,” Snowy protested. “I
just wanted to see nobody would know
me. Besides, she mightn’t be here.
Twenty years is a long time”
“Aw, hell! A bloke with the only
butcher’s shop in one of these cow-cocky
towns don’t give up a goldmine like that.
Yer can’t kid me. Yer still sweet on
’er.”
“Oh, dry up. I ain’t. No woman can
dump me. I’m only hoping to see she’s
made a mess of things.”
“Like hell.” Limpy Joe stood up,
hobbled down towards the bridge. “Once
a bloke gets mar-
ried ’e’s euchred fer
life,” he called back
querulously.
SNOWY grinned
after him. A
great little stick,
Limpy. They’d been
mates a long time.
Ten or twelve years.
Maybe more. He
stuck through any-
thing. Not like Mary.
She’d let him down.
He rolled a cigar-
ette. Down on the
other side of the town a train was
grumbling away into the south. He had
helped to build that line. Twenty years.
It didn’t seem that long. It didn’t.
They’d had their camp on the other side
of the river, under the bluff of the hill,
one tent on the outskirts of a thousand.
That was a funny idea of hers, always
wanting to be on the outside —as if she
was scared of being seen. That was what
he had thought until he had heard about
that butcher chap.
Snowy inhaled the cigarette smoke
deeply. He was considering how clearly
almost forgotten things were alive in his
mind. When he had finished with Mary
he had thrust her right out of his
thoughts. Perhaps it was the nearness of
their old camping ground, where she had
cleared out from him, that was making
him remember. It might have been the
bridge, where Limpy was perched on
one of the rails in the deepening twi-
light. She had held his arm quite tightly
that night while they had been watching
the moon swimming in the water. He
had made a lot of promises . . .
It had been easy to promise her that
he wouldn’t drink again. She had be-
lieved him, but she had been unfortu-
nate in the following day being Satur-
day, and in his luck with the pennies in
the school. He had got drunk, gloriously
drunk, sung his way home to the camp,
pounced on the flowers in the jar on the
box in the tent, flung them into the night.
Just to annoy her. She hadn’t been able
to kid him that she hadn’t been keen on
that butcher. No. Hadn’t she been gone
in the morning?
He chuckled aloud. That butcher
fellow had wanted her badly. There had
been no getting away from that. Chased
him with the papers for the divorce. Like
a damned fool he had signed her away.
He had been a mug—reckoning that she
liked this other fellow better than him.
She hadn’t had much of a chance. One
of fourteen on a poverty-stricken dairy-
farm. She hadn’t been the right sort for
him. Too heavy. She had settled down
to tent life well, liked him a devil of a
lot until they had dumped him out of
the ganger’s job because he couldn’t leave
the bottle alone. She’d been upset . . .
He swore, flicked the cigarette butt
away. He shouldn’t be fooling about
remembering that side of her. She’d
dumped him. It was better to see her in
tears, shrinking, without spirit. Spine-
less, Too much of a prude. That hurt-
dog look in her eyes when he had been
sobering up. Limpy wasn’t like that. He
didn’t plead. Just swore like a bullocky
when he saw that a man was getting the
urge. If Mary had been like that
Blast the woman! He only wanted
to see her now out of devilment. He’d
have the laugh on her if she’d come a
thud with her butcher. He hoped she
had. It would serve her right. What if
he did like a beer-party now and then—
she should have stuck to him.
Fretfully he stood up. He was realis-
ing quite abruptly that he had signed
her away, as he termed it, because he
reckoned that she might better herself.
The thought made him angry. To-
morrow he was going into the township
to gloat over her if she had suffered
adversity. That was as it should be —
considering that she had dumped him.
Blast her!
HE walked down on to the bridge and
stood beside Limpy. Night had
come fully, with its brilliant stars gleam-
ing overhead. The insect chorus was a
steady drone above the chuckling of the
water,
“You mind the duffle to-morrow while
I prowl up to the town.”
Limpy snorted. “Like hell I will!
Think I’m goin’ to let any jane get ’er
’ooks inter yer to drag yer away after
we been so long together. Not on your
life, son.”
Snowy gestured impatiently. “You
know I trust you. I wouldn’t have told
you about her if I didn’t.”
“Yer know damn’ well yer only
gabbled about ’er when yer was soaked
to the world.”
“Scared stiff I’m going to dump you,
ain’t you?” Snowy growled. “Not being
married you don’t know what it is to
hate a woman.”
“I’m goin’ with yer,” Limpy insisted.
IT was about the middle of the after-
-1 noon when they left their swags in
the blacksmith’s shop on the outskirts
of the town and strolled up the main
street. It was Tuesday, and there was
only one saddle-horse and a motor-car
in the whole length of the street. Snowy
felt shivery in his stomach.
He remembered the street when the
railway had had a crowd of navvies
working through. The place had not
altered the slightest. It was back again,
he suspected, to what it had been before
the navvies had arrived. There were the
hotel, the three stores, the billiard-room,
the bank and the post office. The pad-
dock was still vacant beside the butcher
shop with its residence adjoining. He
lengthened - his stride a little.
Joe, limping jerkily at his side,
plucked at his sleeve, “What about a
drink, Snow?”
The other looked down at him.
“Rather see me go on a jag than take
the chance of getting mixed up with me
old missus again, eh?”
“A soak doesn’t take long to get over.”
“I’ll be along later. I guess we can
do with a bit of meat.”
Limpy muttered something and tailed
behind him. Somehow the residence be-
side the butcher’s shop looked neglected.
There were flowers in the garden, and
weeds. The gate sagged from one hinge.
Somehow the curtained windows gave
him the impression of spider-webs. A
seedy place, lacking spirit.
If she did not recognise him all the
better. He would tell her who he was
at the last minute, watch her astonish-
ment, see if she had any regrets. Carry-
ing a swag did not mean that he was
penniless. He would let her see that
he had a decent bit of cash on him. But
the sweetness of it all was that she
seemed to have made a mess of things.
If she had stuck to him, had a drink
occasionally herself, they would have
had a better place than this.
HE did not take any notice of Limpy's
breathless “Yer ain’t going in there,
is yer?” The screen door creaked
as he opened it and a bell tinkled some-
where in the rear of the shop. The place
was cool, shady, smelling of meat. Quick
footsteps echoed in a passage. The
screen door banged shut behind Limpy.
Snowy’s fists ground into his trouser-
pockets as Mary came into the shop. She
was thin, weary-eyed, her hair floured
with white. Her blue dress was neat;
her cheeks gleamed as if she had just
washed them with soap. She did not
look nearly as old as he had suspected.
She was facing him across the counter,
half-smiling.
“What can I do for you?”
The weariness was in her voice also.
Snowy felt suddenly cold, furtive. He
looked away from her.
Limpy said that they wanted some-
meat. “Not mutton, missus—meat. We
just come in from th’ west. We’ve ’ad
that much mutton we’re damn’ near
bleatin’. Steak, missus, good red steak.
Ain’t that right, Snow?”
She laughed, opened the door of the
coolroom and disappeared for a moment.
Limpy tugged at Snowy’s coat, motioned
towards the door. Snowy ignored him.
Mary had not altered much, but she had
suffered, was suffering. He could see
that . . . Almost frantically he was try-
ing to discipline his thoughts.
She came out of the coolroom with a
rump of beef in her hands. Placing it on
the block she steeled a knife deftly. The
gold band on her finger fascinated him.
He saw the knife bite into the red meat.
“Cut it thick, please,” he said gruffly.
“I like it with plenty of juice inside.
About an inch and a half thick.”
She was looking at him steadily. “I
knew a man once who wouldn’t eat his
steak unless it was like that.” She spoke
calmly, went on slicing the meat.
Snowy shivered. He knew that she
was referring to him. She had never
cared for him. The tone of her voice
told him that.
He pulled out quite a respectable wad
of notes, but she seemed more interested
in looking out the side windows towards
the hotel. She had looked out there
several times, the lines of worry deep-
ening in the corners of her eyes. Look-
ing, searching, hoping . . .
He was steadying the swing door shut
when she said softly, “1 am glad you re
looking well, Charlie. Honest, I am.
He gulped, started to push the door
open, but she was turning away. Sav-
agely he swung about, thrust the parcel
of meat at Limpy. “Carry this. . I'm
going to the pub.”
HE felt as if his body was alive with
an energy that was screaming to be
exercised. He wanted to hurt things.
She had no right recognising him, treat-
ing him like a dog. It was just as well


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . . . 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, Oeneral Manager.
THE TEMPERS WENT
IN TWO BY TWO
©
HARDER STEEL
HERE THAN
EVER BEFORE —
TAKES A MUCH
KEENER EDGE
YET SOFT STEEL
HERE ALLOWS THE
BLADE TO BEND
TO THE RAZOR
It's Gillette's new electrical-tempering process that
puts two separate tempers into every Blue Gillette
blade. Super-hard steel at the sides takes a much
keener edge whilst softer steel at the ends allows the
blade to bend readily to the curve of the razor.
Result—closer, cleaner, smoother shaves than you've
ever known: also more shaves per blade. Get a
packet of Blue Gillettes to-day and enjoy luxury
shaving.
PACKET OF FIVE, 2 7 -
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
that she had run away. He would get
drunk now, forget her.
He blundered into the bar. The bar-
maid eyed him up and down, muttered
something to the man who had been
stroking her hand. Snowy wanted
whisky. He tossed her a pound note,
told her to leave the bottle and go back
to her boy friend.
He heard Limpy ask for a pint of
beer; saw the girl leaning on the
counter conversing again with the fellow
n the brown suit. He was toying with
e lingers of hei left hand. A big
cheeks ’ W,th flabby red
Snowy gripped the edge of the counter
tightly. He knew why he had come in
here. Not to drink. Not to be a weak-
ling. Not yet. He understood now
why Mary had glanced down this way
so often, her eyes so hungry. '
He slammed his glass down.
“Don’t anybody get a chance with that
fellow, lady?” he asked. “Ain’t I pretty
enough?”
She looked at him. “You’re not so
terrible, big man.” There was honey
in her voice. “I’ll have a gin.”
“No, Rene, that’s on me,” the big
fellow trebled.
The girl laughed. Limpy tugged at
Snowy’s sleeve. Snowy pushed him
away,
“I’ll drink with both of you,” the
ghl said quickly.
Snowy caught hold of her, lifted her
U p on j-, ar to ]q ss h er rnouth and
her throat. She squealed and fell as
the man j n brown yanked him away
t’rom her.
ALF an hour later Snowy was wash-
tl ing his bruised knuckles in the clear
water 0 f the river. Limpy was still
gabbling, hopping about in his excite-
., , , „
c t Wh f * helj did yer want to pick ha
fi S ht fer? . Murder, it was, bhnkin
murdei, It im in th guts. That s all
Y er did - Murdered ’im. 1 don’t blame
y er - Fancy chuckin’ yer fer him! Did
yer see look in ’er eyes when she |
tame down? Gawd, she loves him! I
Jealous, that’s what yer is,” Limpy
spluttered. “Jealous.”
Snowy stood up. “Maybe. She
dumped me because I got soaked, but
him You ain’t been married, Limpy.
You don’t know that a man has to get j
rid of hate somehow.”
Brief Dramatic Sketch:-
INTERLUDE.
BY DON EDWARDS.
YES, you think with sudden brightness
as you push the seat down for Joan,
at least no one else knows ; not yet
at any rate. That is one consolation.
How small a consolation, though. What
does it matter if they all know? It is
the thing itself that matters, in its rela-
tion to you. Other people don’t count
at all, only you and Joan.
This is an escape for all these people.
That is why they come to the pictures ;
to escape realities. That is why you de-
cided to come to-night, but you should
have known better. Yes, for a time you
cowered there on the mat when she told
you. And although you had been' ex-
pecting something of the sort for weeks
you looked for an escape, and the only
one you could think of was the talkies.
“Well, Joan dear,” you said calmly, just
like that, “let’s go to the talkies and
enjoy ourselves. Then we’ll see how
things are when we get home,”
You know how things will be, too. No
different from now. These three hours
are just a postponement, a prolonging, a
stimulus increasing the pain you felt
when Joan told you, and then added:
“Peter, it isn’t your fault. I guess it’s me,
and the place, and everything, but I’m
tired of it all, sick and tired of it.”
You hand her a programme, and lean-
ing across say something about the show
promising to be a good one. You say
it in the old way, with the old attitude,
tor the benefit of the dozens of people
about who know you. For three years,
pretty regularly you and Joan have been
coming here.
You can live alone ; you did it before
quite well, so you can do it again, though
not so well, perhaps. It will be hard but
you can do it. No silly sentiment; no
pretty, emotional speeches. If this is
the end let it be the end with honor, as
it were. After all, Joan was quite frank
about it. And you played your part
well, very well, acted 'it like a profes-
sional.
E 3 UT what did you hope for from this
—' visit to the talkies? Not to escape but
to postpone the actual and final end ;
to gain time in which to think, to decide
on what you will say later. And what
can you say? “Well, Joan, you just do
as you like . . . It’s your life ... I’m
sorry ... I shall miss you ... I can’t
blame you, Joan ; this is a poor town, and
there isn’t much fun in if for you, but a
job is a job these times and I must stay.”
Oh, anything will do so long as it isn’t
sentimental. You must be careful there,
very careful.
“Is there anyone else, Joan?” you
almost ask. No, she’d tell you if there
were. No need to ask that. The idea
burns you, seems to grind into you pain-
fully. You must love Joan ; oh, yes, you
do, and your jealousy isn’t merely due
to a sense of private property. Marriage
has always seemed a mutual agreement
between you both. Most agreements
don’t last, and it is no wonder Joan has
grown tired. Small
town, poor shops,
uncultured people,
life bounded by
the walls of the
house.
Still, it is useless
to think of the
causes; it is the
fact that matters.
That is what you
have to adjust
yourself to; life 1
without Joan. But I
perhaps it isn’t as j
bad as that; perhaps a holiday. No.
The look in her eyes, the way she spoke.
Besides, she had a holiday quite recently.
You wonder what Joan is thinking and
you look at her profile silhouetted in the
greyness beside you. A pretty face, you
think. If only you could say to her,
sincerely, slowly, forcing the truth of it
deep into her heart, “This is life, Joan.
The place isn’t of much importance. It
will be just the same elsewhere. Life is
what you make of it. I’m not at fault,
nor the place, nor the people.” If only
you could say it so that she would have
to believe it she might reply; “Yes,
Peter, I’ll stay and be happy.” But you
know that even if she stays she won’t
be happy. So you won’t say it, and she
won’t reply to what you haven’t said,
although she probably knows what you
are thinking and doesn’t believe a
thought of it.
44 understand, don’t you, Peter
* dear? It will just be an episode that
has ended.” Then it was that you said
calmly; "Well, Joan dear, let’s go to
the talkies and enjoy ourselves. Then
we’ll see how things are when we get i
home.” I
“An episode that has ended.” And,
you start casting about for an alternative.
Will you say that she has gone for a holi-
day, or just tell the inquisitive ones the
truth? They will know soon, that is
certain. “Have you heard, dear?” “Yes,
left him ; at least that is what they say.”
“Well, I heard”
Then you start thinking of the time
after you were married, when you both
came to the town, when you put the
furniture in the new house, when you i
walked about on Sundays admiring the |
purple, twilight shades on the hills, and
the sweeping fields dotted with sheep.
Life was going to be lovely, marriage
was wonderful. Well, Peter, you could
be satisfied still if only Joan Interval,
thank God.
4 4 p XCUSE me.” You stumble out be-
* —' fore the lights flash on. You light
a cigarette. Outside in the cool air things
seem clearer. The street lights twinkle,
there is a hint of frost in the night. A :
small town, narrow, uncultured, harsh
and cruel as the hills about it. .You are
almost pleased when it is time to return,
although the walk back to your seat is
not pleasant when every member of the 1
audience seems to be staring at you. You
know it is just the habit of the townsfolk
with too few interests that matter, tod
narrow an outlook ; but you wish they
wouldn’t stare.
“Here, Joan, some chocolates ; all with
soft centres.” You hand her the box.
Habit, just habit. That is one of the
things you will always remember —she
likes chocolates with soft centres. You
will always remember, too, the first box
you gave her. So you say gaily; “Whom
will you get to buy chocolates for vou
now, Joan?”
o Continued on next page.)


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K BE., M.L.C (Vice-Chairman):
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H Mackay, J. Beresford Gram.
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Cheapest and most
efficient form of
Roofing 1
Specify 26 gauge “Red Orb” for your
roof, especially rigid, first class, gal-
vanized, corrugated iron manufactured
at Lysaght’s Newcastle Works, New
South Wales.
LYSACHT'S GALVANIZED IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) LTD.
Sydney — Melbourne — Brisbane — Adelaide — Fremantle
LI.126
if any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
"Oh, I’ll buy a few for myself now and
then”; and you are thankful that she
didn’t suggest there might be someone
else.
You could see this situation coming
long ago, but you comforted yourself
with the thought that these things hap-
pened only to others, not to you ; oh, no,
not to you. What could you do, though?
It might be different if you had lots of
money.
Why the hell put it off, anyway? The
sooner the better now. But you know
suddenly that you don’t mean it. Not
one little bit of it. You can’t let her go.
You can’t be happy without her.
So this is the end of life with Joan.
You grip the arms of the chair and stare
ahead. “The end.” The big letters glare
at you. “The End”: you read them
slowly again.
You rise and sidle out of the theatre
and down the steps beside your wife.
A few minutes ago you thought you
wanted the show to end so that you could
get outside, and now that it has ended
you don’t want to leave. You ask your-
self the reason as you jolt down the stair-
way and the answer is easy to find but
not easy to admit.
You help Joan on with her coat and
your hand brushes her dark hair and the
back of her neck. You take her arm
and squeeze it gently, but she gives no
indication that she has noticed. Too
busy hating the town and the people.
Why should any woman have your hap-
piness in her hands, and why should she
throw that happiness away as carelessly
as she would toss the skin of fruit into
the fire? What right has she? A gush
of anger seems to swell into your throat.
She must be made to feel, too. She lives
only on the surface. You grasp her arm
hard and swing her towards you. “Listen,
Joan, you are my wife and”
“Good night. Good night, Peter.” It
is Mr. and Mrs. Osborne.
“Good night. Cool, isn’t it?” you reply,
and hate them for being neighbors.
“Wasn’t the last picture lovely, Joan?
1 did so enjoy it. Took me right out of
myself.”
You take Joan’s arm and start walking
down the ringing footpath.
Out of the Past:—
THE PRATES
BY J.H. MABBOTT
££T TELL ye, gentlemen, there's a for-
| tune in it. A fortune. Yes. You
have the money, I have the ex-
perience. You behold, in your very
humble servant, a man who knows what
he is talking about. One who is com-
petent to assess risks, and equally com-
petent to face and overcome them. One,
too, who is no new hand to such an
enterprise as I have outlined.”
Messrs. Simpson and Sowerby sat at
a table in the coffee-room of the
Ship Inn at Greenwich and listened
greedily to the tale of Captain Jacob
Gaunt, and experienced an increased
desire in each of their innocent
bosoms for the noble, adventurous
career and the wealth which he promised
them with such facile persuasiveness.
“ ’Twill not be the first time Jacob
Gaunt has waged war, privately, upon
his country’s enemies,” he continued.
During the recent war against the tyrant
Bonaparte I may tell you that I obtained
some credit, and not a little emolument,
whilst in command of the privateer Saucy
Fanny, by the injuries I inflicted on both
our French and our American foes. Un-
fortunately injudicious speculations upon
the Stock Exchange, assisted, perhaps,
by a too trustful nature, lost me all that
I had made by the sweat of my brow
and the quality of my seamanship. So
that I sit here with you, to-day, in ’he
unhappy guise of a ruined man.
“Did I say ruined, gentlemen? Not
so —not so, indeed! I have my health,
my mental endowments, my courage, my
honesty and my experience. They are
ready to be made use of by those who
command the enterprise to do so. We
are still at war with the Americans. There
are still prizes to be taken and cargoes
to be sold. There
yet remains a hunt-
ing-ground in the
South Seas that
may prove as
profitable as any.
You have heard
my proposals.
Well, then, tell me,
gentlemen, what is
your opinion of
them?”
“ Well, Geoffrey,” said Mr, Simpson,
“ ’tis my belief the captain hath made
out a very good case. For my part,
I like the scheme and am quite ready to
pay my footing. How do you regard
it?”
Mr. Sowerby was a little slower in his
enthusiasm, but no less fervent than his
friend. “Aye,” he said, “ ’tis a most
alluring prospect. Where did you say the
ship was, Captain?”
“The ship, Mr. Sowerby—as tight a
craft as ever was afloat—why, she’s
moored in Galleons Reach, and ye may
board her and see her for yourselves any
time it pleases ye to do so.”
Eagerly, Mr. Simpson interposed, “Yes,
yes, Geoffrey—we’ll go look at her to-
morrow. And you are of opinion, Cap-
tain Gaunt, that there’s much money in
oil? That it may be easily acquired from
the capture of American whalers prac-
tising their pursuits in the South Seas?”
“There’s no question of it, sir. We
allow the Yankee Doodles to do the
hard work and watch for them on their
return to the United States. They’ll be
a gift to us. Just God’s own gift. There’s
no gainsaying it.”
“And as to our crew,” inquired Mr.
Sowerby. “Do you think you can man
the ship properly—with good men, whom
we may trust?”
“Sir, we’ve the pick o’ the Royal Navy.
The war with France is over, and it
stands to reason many ships will
be paying off. We’ll be able to choose
to suit ourselves —from the ranks of
honest and well-trained seamen. You
leave it to me, gentlemen, and I’ll en-
gage to have a crew aboard that will
answer all requirements.”
“What’s her name, Captain?” asked
Mr. Simpson,
“ ’Tis the Duchess, brig, sir—and she’s
as sound as a bell, and I can tell you
that no other” -
“Oh, we’ll need some other name,” in-
terrupted the young man who had last
spoken. “What d’ye say to calling her the
Brave Adventure, Geoffrey? I’ve been
thinking about it, Tis a suitable name.”
“Hi, waiter! Another bottle, then.
We’ll drink to the Brave Adventure. Of
course, Bill-—’tis the only name suitable.
Captain Gaunt, I think you may con-
sider the matter as good as settled. We’ll
go with you to-morrow to take a look
at the ship. But I’ve no doubt at all
we'll come to an agreement in the matter.
J N the mouth of Sydney Cove lay the
1 brig Brave Adventure, and in the
squalid confinement of his Majesty’s
gaol in George-street lay Messrs. Simp-
son and Sowerby, two very sad young
gentlemen, not yet altogether wise to the
circumstances that had combined to place
them there. Some ten months only had
elapsed since that evening when they
entertained that deceotive but persuasive
gentleman, Captain Jacob Gaunt.
Their fellow-prisoners, having regard
to their evident social standing, the good
quality of their raiment and the disdain-
ful manner in which friendly advances
had been received, looked upon them
with marked disfavor —a disfavor which
had been accentuated when the two
young men had very efficiently demon-
strated that it was dangerous to attempt
the taking of liberties with them. The
masterly manner in which Geoffrey
Sowerby had knocked out the bully of
the yard, Big Terry, and the way in
which William Simpson had dealt with
two others had elicited the admiration
of the gaoler, Mr. Tobias Trimble, and
thereby added to their unpopularity, even
if it had guaranteed their immunity from
interference.
“Ah, then, me codgers,” Mr. Trimble
had addressed the yard in his famous
bellow, “that'll teach ye somethink,
if ye’re not all too damned thick-
’eaded for to larn. It don’t do to take
swells too heasy—that it don't! But I’ll
tell ’ee this, ye flamin’ gallus-birds—hit’
I. see one o’ ye so much as look side-
ways at them too young fellies, I’ll have
th’ tripes flogged out of ’im.”
So Messrs. Sowerby and Simpson,
South Sea shipowners and alleged pirates,
had at least remained unmolested, even
though they had forfeited the goodwill
of their comrades in misfortune.
As they walked up and down the exer-
cise yard this morning, gloomily discuss-
ing the strange and startling manner in
which their present situation had forced
itself upon them, Mr. Trimble’s voice
hailed them.
“Hey, there—you two! Sowerby an
Simpson. Step ye this way—here’s your
attorney come to confabulate with ye.”
"Our attorney ?” questioned Mr. Simp-
son, as they walked across to the door-
way in the wall of the two-storeyed build-
ing where the prisoners were housed at
night. “Had you arranged for a lawyer,
Geoffrey?”
His companion shook his head.
"Lord, no! I know no one in this
accursed place—any more than you do,
Will. Tis some lawyer of the town who
has come to seek us as clients, I make no
doubt. You’d have known of it if I’d
engaged anyone.”
It seemed that he was right, for, when
Mr. Trimble ushered them into a room
in the gaoler’s lodge within the main
gate of the prison, a suave and ingratiat-
ing personage, clad soberly in somewhat
shabby black raiment, rose to greet them.
“Good morning, gentlemen,” said this
somewhat doubtful-looking individual. “1
think I have the honor of addressing Mr.
Geoffrey Sowerby and Mr. William Simp-
son. Is not that so?”
Each of the young men bowed as his
name was mentioned. The stranger did
not wait for a reply,, but addressed them
further.
"Permit me to introduce myself, gentle-
men,” he went on. “My name is Cross-
ley—George Crossley, attorney-at-law,
practising before the Courts in the towns
of Sydney and Parramatta. No doubt,
your arrival here is so recent, and you
have had such limited opportunities of
making yourselves acquainted with the
place, that you will not even have heard
of me. But Mr. Trimble here, will vouch
for me —won’t you, Toby?”
“Aye, George. Gemmen, Mr. Cross-
ley’s the on’y lawyer in th’ settlement the
Gov’nor gives a damn for. An’ for why?
’Cos he was lagged hisself, an’ knows all
about it.”
Mr. Crossley smiled at this tribute, nod-
ding genially to the gaoler, and went on.
“It is quite true I myself was trans-
ported—unjustly I assure you, gentlemen
—and I know, as is said, most of the
ropes in this community, and am on very
good terms with his Excellency. Now.
gentlemen, it seems to me that you are
in a somewhat invidious situation. Your
ship has been arrested, and a military
guard has been placed upon her. You
yourselves are here —and, with all due
respect to my friend Tobias Trimble, be-
ing here is far from a joke. But there is
worse —very much worse. His Excel-
lency Governor Macquarie, I happen
to know, is seriously considering
bringing you to trial on a charge
of piracy on the high seas—and
you know, gentlemen, what that may
mean. If you are not aware of what it
means, perhaps our mutual friend here
will enlighten you? Tell the gentlemen
what it means to be convicted of piracy,
Tobias.”
Mr. Trimble indulged in an eloquent
pantomime. Lolling his head upon one
side, he stuck out his tongue, rolled wide-
open eyes, emitted a choking noise from
his bull’s throat, and rapidly marked
time in a sort of convulsive dance
wherein each knee was alternately raised
until it almost touched his protruding
paunch. There was no mistaking what
he meant to convey. Mr. Crossley
nodded impressively.
“Yes, yes,” he said. “The gallows,
gentlemen, the gallows—up on the hill
behind the gaol. You are, I regret to say
it, in very great danger—the extremes!
danger.”
“My God!” murmured Mr. Simpson.
“Heaven preserve us!” gasped Mr.
Sowerby.
Mr. Crossley raised a reassuring hand.
“But do not despair, gentlemen —George
Crossley is here to save you. A modest
fee of fifty ’guineas apiece, gentlemen —
not, of course, to be paid if you be
hanged. I trust my terms may be con-
’sidered fair to all parties?”
The unfortunate young gentlemen
nodded in turn.
“Well, then, gentlemen, his Excellency
desires your presence at Government
House, where he will himself hold a pre-
liminary inquiry in the presence of the
chief witness for the prosecution, Cap-
tain Jacob Gaunt.”
“Captain Gaunt! ” Each of them
gasped the name simultaneously.
“Have no fear of him, gentlemen.
Leave it to your attorney —he fancies he
can deal with Master Jacob Gaunt. He
fancies so. Tobias, here is the Gov-
ernor’s order, in which he directs you
to send the prisoners across to Govern-
ment House in my company and in
charge of a constable.”
Mr. Trimble took the folded paper
handed to him by the lawyer, read it
and put it in his pocket, nodding agree-
ment. “They must be handcuffed, Mr,


UNION
LINE
m
'©M
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney _ 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas,
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ...
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.in.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £S.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island o! New Zealand
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
hookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
Bank of New South Wales Travellers’ Cheques
provide a safe and convenient method of meeting
travel expenses. . . . These cheques are issued in
amounts of £2, £5 and £10 and bear a specimen of
the traveller’s signature for identification purposes.
. . . They can be cashed at any of the Bank’s 770
branches in Australia, New Zealand, the Pacific
Islands and London and its 7,500 agents and corres-
pondents throughout the world. . . . The Bank’s
Travellers’ Cheques are also accepted by the principal
shipping and railway companies, hotels, stores, tourist
offices, etc., throughout the world.
J.
TRAVELLER S’ CHEQUES
• Obtainable through any branch of the Bank.
221A.1036
Crossley. I ain’t a-takin’ any risks —
gemmen or no gemmen. ’
fAN fine summer mornings it was occa-
v-z sionally the pleasure of Governor
Macquarie to conduct business of State
seated at a small writing-table placed
upon the lawn in front of Government
House, whence was obtainable a very
charming view of Sydney Cove, the ridge
of the Rocks with its windmill-crested
skyline, and the shipping in the harbor.
Here he was found by Mr. Crossley and
his clients on this particular occasion,
with Mr. J. T. Campbell, the secretary,
in attendance, and, seated upon a chair
in the background, Captain Jacob Gaunt,
master of the brig Brave Adventure.
Mr. Crossley bowed deeply as the
Governor looked up from the papers he
was perusing, having left the two young
men a short distance away, guarded by
the constable with drawn cutlass,
"Ah, Crossley,” said his Excellency,
directing his dark bright eyes upon the
two young gentlemen—“so these are the
two bloodthirsty young ruffians, eh?
Bring them closer, if you please.”
Bowing again, Mr. Crossley beckoned
to the constable.
For a few moments Macquarie re-
garded the two young men in silence.
“It is a shameful thing, indeed,” he
said at last, “to see two young men of
your class in such a position as this.
But I hear the very worst of you—the
very worst. The first thing that the un-
fortunate master mariner whom you so
cruelly kidnapped to sea —the first thing
he did upon arrival here was to seek
an interview with me, as Governor of
the Territory of New South Wales and
its dependencies, in order not only to
ventilate his own personal wrongs which
he has endured at your hands, but to
warn me against the wicked and dan-
gerous mission which has brought you
into this part of the world. 1 am greatly
indebted to Captain Gaunt for having
taken this immediate opportunity of mak-
ing me aware of your diabolical pro-
posals, and it is my purpose to bring you
to trial as pirates, unless you can con-
vince me that your intentions are more
honest than they seem. In any case, you
will have to answer for your outrageous
behavior towards this gentleman—a
course of conduct which the laws of no
civilised community can tolerate for a
moment. Captain Gaunt” —he half-
turned in his chair to summon the master
of the Brave Adventure—“be so good as
to repeat in their presence the charges
you have formulated against them.”
Erect with conscious virtue, Captain
Gaunt stepped up beside the table, on
the Governor’s right hand. If a look
could have withered the two astonished
young gentlemen standing handcuffed in
that august presence, Messrs, Sowerby
and Simpson would have shrunk to no-
thingness under Captain Gaunt’s hostile
and uncompromising glare. But before
he began to give his testimony Mr. Cross-
ley took a step forward and addressed
himself with deference to the Governor,
“Your Excellency,” he said, “pray
allow me one moment, if you please,
your Excellency.”
“What is it, Mr. Crossley?”
“If you will allow me, your Excel-
lency, to ask this—er—this gentleman
one or two questions before he begins, I
think it would be of advantage to all
concerned.”
“What kind of questions, Mr. Cross-
ley?”
“Questions relating to this person’s
bona fides, your Excellency. I assure
your Excellency that his answers to them
will put quite anew complexion upon
the charges he has impudently and
wickedly brought against my unfortu-
nate clients, with his own despicable ends
in view. When you shall have heard his
replies to them 1 have not the very slight-
est doubt that you will order my unfor-
tunate clients to be released, and will
seriously consider the question of deal-
ing with this man as he deserves to be
dealt with, I beg your Excellency’s per-
mission—in the cause of justice— to be
allowed to do as I have had the honor
to request of you.”
Macquarie was accustomed to refer
many points of law to that not alto-
gether creditable personage. For a long
time he had agreed with himself to for-
get that the lawyer had been transported
for perjury, and looked upon him as one
of those “emancipists” who had made
good in the colony. So presently he
nodded,
“Well, then —proceed, Mr. Crossley. I
have no doubt that Captain Gaunt will
have an answer,” he added politely.
ti I OOK you, sir,” said Mr. Crossley,
1— 'addressing the captain, who had
become a little pale. “Do you remember
being in command of the ship Hector
when she called here in Governor Bligh’s
time —in 1807? Ah, you do remember!”
The master mariner nodded, and mut-
tered something unintelligble.
“And you remember coming to me
with a plan to assist some twenty con-
victs away from the colony, which 1 re-
fused to consider of? And how you did
take away a round dozen of ’em—in-
cluding a certain Betsy Sharp?”
The Governor was startled! by the
sudden limp appearance of Captain
Gaunt. His jaw had fallen, and he could
only stare speechless at Mr. Crossley.
“Well, let me tell you,” went on the
attorney, “that Betsy Sharp was trans-
ported again, and that she is now my
housekeeper, and is quite prepared to go
into full details before his Excellency of
her escape, and that of other prisoners
of the Crown, in your ship the Hector.
Have you anything to say, sir, now,
about these gentlemen?”
“But, Mr. Crossley,” mildly interposed
the Governor, “why should he have
sought to get these young men into
trouble?”
“Because, your Excellency, he desired
to purchase the Brave Adventure when
she should have been declared forfeit.
Tis an old game of Captain Gaunt’s.”
Macquarie considered things for a few
moments —and then, because he knew
there was no one nearer than Downing-
street to reprove him for what he did,
and that he himself would have the tell-
ing of it, he came to the relief of Messrs.
Sowerby and Simpson.
“Constable,” he said, “release these
two young men, Mr. Campbell—you are
a magistrate. Make out a commitment
warrant to the gaol for this man Gaunt.
Sir, 1 will investigate your case further.”
A Soft Fool:-
THE CANARY
BY MYRA MORRIS.
TWICE in the night he got up to look
at the bird, climbing over the
rounded hillock that was Maria and
taking the bedclothes with him.
“What you want to bother for?”
ejaculated Maria in sleepy rage.
“Well, I give it the wrong seed, didn’t
I?” he asked in an aggrieved growl.
"And it didn't do it no good, either.”
Hitching up his pyjamas he stumbled
out to the kitchen for the second time.
The cage, a cheap, dinted thing with
the paint peeling off its wires, was slung
above the sink in the corner. On the
floor, drawn into a tight little yellow
ball, huddled the canary with its beak to
the ground.
Tom stared wretchedly. There was
to him something infinitely pathetic in
that motionless bent head and tiny
locked beak. He poked his huge hairy
fingers through the bars.
“Come on, now,
little fellah! . . .
That’s it. Tweet!
Tweet! Tweet!”
His dark stubbly
face, clowned by
its thatch of coarse
greying hair, was
intent. His whole
body, drooped
over the cage, par-
took of that intent-
ness. He had grown to love the canary,
brought home one day from the market
with a stack of green vegetables. It was
a pretty little codger. And sing? By
God, it was something to listen to when
it sang, its throat puffed up as though
it must burst!
“Tweet! Tweet! Tweet! Come on,
Dicky.”
Tom's voice was cajoling, his lips
drawn back in a persuasive smile. But
the canary stayed motionless in the
corner of the cage with its little beak
touching the tin floor. Tom changed
the water in the tiny dish, snicked the
light off and shuffled back to bed.
HE was out in the morning before
Maria had time to set a match to the
kindling in the stove. At the bottom of
the cage the bird lay on its back, with its
claws sticking up absurdly into the air.
“Stiff,” muttered Tom, feeling a sharp
hurt. “Stiff!”
He stood staring at it while Maria
stirred the. porridge. He remembered
how it had climbed on to his hand and
put its tiny claws round his fingers . . .
It gave a man a funny sort of sensation,
that ... So small and delicate. So
helpless . . .
He went out into the bitter half-
blackness of the wintry morning and
buried it, scooping up the earth under
the prize dahlias with a rusty shovel.
Somehow he liked to think of it lying
where the prize dahlias had grown with
thick stems and petals rich and red as
blood . . .
When he went back to the kitchen
Maria, grey-faced in a flannel dressing-
gown, was dishing out the porridge. She
looked at him with a gentle contempt.
“Gawd! Of all the soft fools!”
THE train was full of workmen with
tools, and traces of yesterday’s coal-
dust in the crevices of their necks. Tom
eyed them dispassionately, taking his
usual seat in the corner. He felt
strangely disinclined for speech even
with old Ted Rafferty, who had worked
alongside him for years.
At their station he and Ted got out
together. Something in Ted’s kindly,
withered face reminded Tom as they
came within sight of their destination.
Good old Ted! He was always one to
listen to a bloke.
“Had a little bird die on me this
morning,” he said shamefacedly. “I was
fond of it, I was!”
“Yairs, you get like that,” said Ted
in a dreamy voice. “I had a dog once.
Fair turned me up when it died.”
Tom nodded, and they plunged for-
ward into the thick of the traffic
butchers’ carts, bicycles and trundling
waggons. The wind had a knife-like
edge and the air was full of the sound of
dolorous lowing ... In the yards to
the left of them penned cattle were
stamping restlessly,' their horns lifting
and falling . . ,
“A good lot of beasts in to-day,” said
Tom with professional interest. His
eyes brightened. “Talk of more strikes,
they say. I don’t like it —but I tell you
what, Ted! Us slaughtermen has got to
stick together!”


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA ; s . land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course. The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
tOe ma,Ae
T'OCtH
31
<r&
rs
■m
r
\
\s
~JAsl flame js —
(P c CaUun?’s
Ik Whisky Js-
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremamk
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. * - - * Hobart
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street),
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
-Admission Free.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
British-Israelite: No space for a controversy
on the merits of this belief or that. The most
we can do is to record your emphatic con-
tradiction of the statement that British-Israelism
is a “misguided fallacy”... .C.M.M.: Correct
enough in metre and phrasing, but they don't
stir or grip R.G.W.: You’re a resourceful
rhymer, but you sacrifice a little too much to
rhyme.... D.F.: It seems vaguely poetical, but
we don’t quite get the hang of it... .G.N.8.:
These hunting songs, mostly echoes of English
ones, are a bit exotic in these parts LAV.;
Good enough of its kind, but the ceremonial
capers of Chinamen in Ballarat 70 or 80 years
ago hardly retain a flicker of interest... .T.H.:
We always feel sorry for Bill, the miner who
has been celebrating a newly-found nugget,
when
... .staggering borne
(Too many beers he’d quailed)
He to his horror found himself
A—falling down a shaft.
But the yarn, with variations, has been told
so often... .Bellerive; Yes, we’ve heard of
him:
DAN MENDOZA.
A London-born Jew,
Hard and long-haired.
Opponents in contests
Dan seldom spared.
But as champion of England,
He’s reign was brief ;
Against a huge slogger—
He came to grief.
He weathered eight rounds.
And was counted out.
Which evoked a uproar
Asa brutal bout.
. ...F.R.H.: “Despacialise” awarded the
stuffed bird for the worst word of the season.
. ...F.J.8.: Should easily find a home for it
elsewhere about Christmas.... Agar: Slight
even for verse called “Unfaithful”... J.H.;
Title “The Thrush” misled us into reading it,
and then it was another spring poem!....
Nomad; “Impotence” has moments of virility,
but metre’s rheumatic... .E. 8.: No
the usual appeal in "The Voice of Spring ....
A.M.L.: Fiercely dislike ,
Changing, changing.
Ceaseless disarranging
Of Nature's patterns.
The rocks that girt the sea
Stand....
Our deep-rooted belief is that typewriters ought
to be able to do such “verse’’ without assist-
ance... .1.H.; Don’t fancy “Splendor," but
would like to inspect another sample
J.F.S.: “Who knows what high pure radiance
rises from Australian nerve?” Dunno
P.C.W.: Something in all of them, not enough
in any M.A.8.: Scarcely our kind
H. 8.: “The Party” almost invited in....
G. : Even a Lawson would be pessi-
mistic about the hope of placing anything that
length J.S. (Q.): Good stuff in you. Write
less, and put more into it... .M.E.8.: Three
times too long for us... .E.A.P.: No roaming
space in our pages for the untamable maiden.
. ...H.M.: You're no Aldous Huxley....
H. Would sooner have the anaesthetic
than be forced to read it again D. 8.:
Missed.... R.T.H.: Unmoved by the ancient's
adventures P.L.S.: You can have the ghost
back H.L.; Old Joe and his narrator-com-
panion struck us as a tedious couple D.W.:
There is a story in it, but the final coincidence
is inartistic E.W.: Not tempted by “Love’s
Temptation” J.A.: Too small a peg to hang
a yarn 0n... .J.T.8.: Not for u5....N.P.:
With brighter treatment it might get through.
,;A.H.: Don’t like that one, but keep on.
C.R.F.: Style interesting; subject-matter
not so g00d.... H.G.P.: A little tired of those
remarkably sagacious dogs 8.P.P.; Too
thin; but let us see some more K.McC.:
You haven’t improved your “Viking’s Prayer.”
Try something else R.D.8.: Sympathise
with Uncle George, but then nephews are like
that E.E.; Dialogue is rocky D.M.:
Might suit a school paper....A.W.: Nothing
in it E.C.: You don’t make a sketch of it,
but it contains material for good pars
R.C.M.: Peter was lucky... .J.F.K. and
P.8.T.: Bellowdrammer A.W.: We’ve felt
just that way about a girl ourselves
FC.; It strikes a too-familiar note
J.N.H.; So does your effort V.C.: Came
close, but the ending spoilt it....W.L.: “The
Mulberry-tree” just misses... .H.D.-B.: Re-
jected N.J.C.F.: No vacancy for Mr.
Squibbs A.S.: Try again E.W.H.: You,
too N.S.L.: Our advice is the same as the
major’s E.D.: You’ve said it—“ Burnt
Offering”! D.E. and S.T.: Can’t place them.
. ...T.F.: Much too long.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.: Dog is taller than his master and
kennel might pass for a chapel F.W.: Man
has drain-pipes for legs and a football for a
head R.F.: Prune the tangle of lines and
a presentable picture might emerge A. 8.8.:
Wash drawing too faded and drab. J^ d .
never much of a laugh-raiser... •DAj. -
Mouldy wax-model-and-drunk gag.
The poses are so good and the line-
work so dreadful that we suspect tnat
they are copies.... L.T.: The oarsman is lacing
the wrong way and the wheeze is pointless • • • -
K.B.: An open-air meeting or a study oi
Stonehenge?....A.R.C.: Poster-size sketch ot
minor American film actor received its just
reward L.AJ.: Can’t you be persuaded
to take up another hobby?... .W.V.: Your
eraser completed only one-tenth ot its jop,
it should have rubbed the lot out... •
Not bad for a first-year student; you should
see print with animal studies...-A.M. :
sketches and old wheezes-... .T.H.N.: Nothing
marketable... .C.G.: Still totting up the
mistakes in the drawings and looking tor tne
points of the gags... .W.B.: You hooked a
fair idea, but didn’t have the skill to land it.
. ...J.N.: When we saw the Botanic Gardens
sundial we guessed the gag....E.R.:
tures need to be of people of some public
interest....J.C.H.: Work should be more
clear-cut... .D.J.N.: You’re poaching on a
staff artist’s preserve... .J.M.K.: It may have
been said in Hong Kong recently, but it was
also said on an outback station years ago....
P.R.B.: Drawing “dashed off in three minutes
rejected in less than three seconds... -A.S.:
Shows signs of careful workmanship, but the
net result is lifeless... .O.J.: Helped to swell
the reject pile.
“Actung”: There is a lesson for Aus-
tralia in the German successes at the
Olympiad in events requiring strength
and staying power. These successes must
be ascribed to the rigorous compulsory
training to which the youth of Germany
has been subjected, in labor camps and
out of them, since the rise of the Hitler
regime. Not only were out-of-works
drafted into the labor camps, but rigor-
ous supervision saw they wore out their
shovels in other fashion than by leaning
on them. The result is that in physique
and organisation has been produced a
huge force of young men who require
only to substitute 'a rifle for the shovel
to become the nucleus of a more for-
midable army than even Germany
mobilised in the past.


THE STAMMERERS’ CLUB
of N.S.W.
now offers a postal course of instruction
to country members.
Write to The Honorary Secretary,
Stammerers Club of N.S.\V., Paling’s
Buildings, Ash Street, Sydney.
ADAMS* (TA'iTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.15 p.m.). Din per Irom 3.30 p.ra. (Sunday, 3.13 p.m.),
tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
NEW TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Diesel Engine Maintenance (Judge), 16/9 posted.
Petrol and Oil Engines 4/- posted.
Concrete Engineering (Green) (3
volumes) 35/-posted.
Modern Uses of Nuu-Eerrous Metals, 31/6 posted.
Electrical Engineering Tables
(Sublet) 11/-posted.
Rubber —Physical and Chemical
Properties 69/- posted.
Slide Rules and Drawing Supplies Stocked.
TAIT BOOK CO., 349 Collins St, Melb.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart fox the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
lo avoid womusion in filing and search, every inquiry
mist be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (N.S.W.), licensed marine and
auto, mechanic, wants job connected with either
trade. —2621.
Young man (22), N.S.W., wants position
among sheep or as boundary rider. Refs.—
2693.
To buy, new or second-hand, small hand-
printing press complete, or type for it. —2664.
To buy back numbers of “Reader’s Digest”
or will exchange for “Geographic” magazines.
—2660.
To buy, second-hand, The Dead Heart of
Australia, by Gregory.—2642.
To buy Memories of Corporal Keeley, by
“Steele Rudd,” in good condition. Will give
55., plus postage. —2638.
To buy the “Lone Hand” for February,
June and August, 1912.—2700.
Words of poem entitled “Beyond,” com-
mencing “What is beyond the dark hills?”;
and another entitled “On Deck,” commencing
“The green ways of the world flow under like
the still, moving tide of a heart’s sorrow.” —
2627.
Words of poem by Henry Parkes containing
the lines: —
I would not give my ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going,
She knows the way to banish pain,
What she don’t know is not worth knowing.
—2611.
Bob E. wants address of Ernie Cohen and
Frank James, old Jarrahwoodites.—262s.
Information Sought.
Who of the 16 English XI players selected
for the Australian tour have knocked up cen-
turies in Tests v. Australia, and their scores ?
(2) How many of the team have played in
Australia in Tests ? (3) How many of the
tourists are over 30 ? —2643.
(1) Only two —Hammond (251, 112 and 101
at Sydney, 200 at Melbourne, 119 n.o. and
177 at Adelaide, 113 at Leeds) and Leyland
(137 at Melbourne, 109 at Lord’s, 153 at Man-
chester, 110 at Oval). (2) Allen, Duckworth,
Verity, Leyland, Hammond and Voce. (3)
Leyland (36), Duckworth (35), Allen (34), Ham-
mond (33), Sims (32), Robins (30), Verity (30)
and Worthington (30).
* * * *
(1) What is (a) the height of hurdles, (b) dis-
tance between hurdles and (c) distances start
to first hurdle and from last hurdle to finish in
the 110 metres hurdles at the Olympic Games?
(2) Same information regarding the 440 metres
hurdles ?—9429
(1) (a) 3ft. 6in.; ( b ) 9.14 metres; (c) 13.72
metres in both cases. (2) Hurdles, 3ft. high;
start to first hurdle, 45 metres; distance
between other hurdles, 35 metres; last hurdle
to finish, 40 metres.
* * * *
(1) When playing cribbage, is one hole taken
for the last card played of each hand or for the
last of any “can’t go” ? (2) Are four cards in
the crib of one suit a flush, or must the
turned-up card be also of the same suit ?—-
2605.
(1) For last card played. (2) The turned-up
card must be of the same suit.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning D. H. Lawrence’s
life ? His chief publications, and is it possible
to secure a copy of “Lady Chatterley’s
Lover” ? —2650.
David Herbert Lawrence was born September
11, 1885, in the village of Eastwood, Notting-
hamshire, being the fourth son of a coalminer,
and was educated at Nottingham High School,
for which he won a scholarship. He became a
pupil teacher, then assistant master at a school
at Croydon, near London. In 1909 his first
poems appeared in the “English Review,” and
in 1911 his novel The White Peacock was
published; in 1913 he made his name with
Sons and Lovers, a realistic story of life among
the coalminers. In July, 1914, he married a
German lady with whom he had eloped in
1912. Called up for service, he was rejected,
and during the war period he suffered extreme
poverty as well as being suspect on account
of his wife’s nationality. From 1919 to 1922,
on account of his delicate health, he lived in
Italy, later coming to Australia, which visit
was productive of two novels, Kangaroo and,
in collaboration with M. L. Skinner, The Boy
in the Bush. He went to U.S.A., returning to
England in 1925. His health gradually failed,
and he died near Nice, March 2, 1930. His
novels, besides those mentioned, are The
Trespasser, The Rainbow, The Lost Girl,
Women in Love, Aaron’s Rod, St. Mawr, The
Plumed Serpent and The Virgin and the Gipsy.
His published books of poems number 11, in-
cluding his collected poems, and he also wrote
numerous short stories, plays, travel sketches
and essays. In his later years he took up paint-
ing, and held an exhibition in London, the
display finally being closed by police action.
Lady Chatterley’s Lover, as originally published,
is on the banned list, but it is possible to
obtain an expurgated edition.
♦ ♦ # *
i Particulars, biographical and literary, of
Roderic Quinn, Victor J. Daley, Will Law-
son, Mary Hannay Foott ? —2658.
Roderic Quinn, born Sydney, 1869, taught
m a country school. Returning to Sydney, he
engaged in freelance journalism. Publications:
A novel, Mostyn Stayne, and books of verse.
He still lives in Sydney. Victor James Daley,
born Ireland, 1858, came to Sydney in youth,
where he worked as clerk and journalist. He
died (of consumption) at Waitara, Sydney,
December 29, 1905, and is buried in Waverley
Cemetery. William Lawson, bom Newcastle-
on-Tynej England, 1876, was educated at Bris-
bane State and Grammar schools, and resided
in Maoriland from 1893 to 1913. He is chiefly
known as a writer of sea verse and of many
vigorous stories dealing with railways, ships
and travel generally. He is now living in
Sydney. Mary Hannay Foott, born Glasgow,
1846, arrived in Melbourne, 1853, and in 1874
married Thomas Wade Foott, of Dundoo
station, Warrego, Queensland. She published
Where the Pelican Builds and Other Poems
in 1885, later volumes following. She was
literary editor of the “Queenslander” from
1886 to 1896. She died Bundaberg, Queens-
land, 1918.
Can you tell me anything of the lives of
.John Kemble and F. J. Talma? —2632.
John Philip Kemble, born February 1, 1757,
at Prescot, Lancashire, was the eldest son of
Roger Kemble, a theatrical manager, Sarah
Siddons being a sister. Intended by his father
for the priesthood, he determined to become an
acfor. His first public appearance was at
Wolverhampton, January 8, 1776, and a little
later, througn the innuence of his sister, he got
a Drury Lane engagement, where he played
Hamlet. He won immedia:e success, and con-
tinued to play leading character roles at Drury
Lane for many years. In 1788 he was
appointed by Sheridan manager of the theatre;
in 1802 he bought a one-sixth share in the
Covent Garden Theatre for £23,000. He be-
came manager, and made his first appearance
there September 24, 1803, as Hamlet. He
retired in 1817 and settled at Lausanne, where
he died of apoplexy, February 26, 1823.
Francois Joseph Talma, born January 15, 1763,
at Paris, was the son of a dentist. He won
favor with the public from the moment of his
first appearance at the Comedie Fran?aise in
1787. He made a point of rigorous accuracy
in costuming, and played many great tragic
roles. In 1789 he was at the height of his
career, and in 1791 founded the Theatre de
la Republique, where he continued to appear
throughout the Revolution. He died October
19, 1826. Alexandre Dumas edited his auto-
biography.
* * *
Is there an aboriginal word meaning “fourth
camp” or “fourth home” ? I have been given
the word “calgooun” (pronounced as three
syllables) by a Bowen River (Q.) native. If that
word is not known, can you suggest another
that will meet the case ? —lBBO.
. The word “calgooun” does not appear in
any of the published lists of aboriginal words,
but may be authentic aboriginal dialect. The
equivalent for four is generally expressed by
duplicating the word for two, as “bullah,” two,
and “bullah bullah,” four, “boolera boolera”
being a variation similarly treated. A word
resembling in its initial syllable the example
given is “kulbarri” or “kalbarri,” meaning
three or several; some other aboriginal words
for four are “boongoo,” “bungu,” “cowwoy,”
“margulbun,” “moolamboo,” “munandinga,”
“narrang” and “woworlyum.” Some of these
might possibly be combined with a native word
for camp or home in order to give the required
meaning, but it would be incongruous to
associate words from different dialects.
*-* # *
Where could I learn window-dressing in
Sydney? Any exams, to pass before being
accepted as a pupil, and are positions found
at end of course ? What are the fees? —2601.
A two-year course of training in window-
dressing is included in the curriculum of the
Sydney Technical College. Two nights a week
are devoted to theoretical and practical work
and one night to drawing. No special entrance
qualifications are prescribed, but there is usually
£ long waiting list, and only those applicants
who give promise of achieving proficiency are
accepted. Graduates from this course seldom
fail to find suitable positions. Fees for the
course are: Juniors, £1 155.; seniors, £3 10s.
per annum.
* * :•! *
Educational qualifications necessary for a
youth wishing to enter N.S.W. railway and
tramway services as junior clerk or junior
draftsman ? Salary for junior clerk ? Are
there vacancies for draftsmen ? —2612.
Candidates for the position of junior clerk
or junior draftsman, besides passing the speci-
fied entrance examination, must hold the inter-
mediate certificate and be between the ages of
15 years and 18|. In the case of junior drafts-
men, a special test in mathematics at inter-
mediate certificate standard must be taken.
Juniors in the clerical division entering the
service at the age of 17 years receive £BO p.a.
and, subject to qualifications and available
openings, may advance by annual increments
to £338 p.a. There are no vacancies for
junior draftsmen at present.
* * * *
My lad. aged 12, is keen on joining the navy.
What qualifications are necessary for him to
become an officer, and what fees are payable ?
Where are full particulars obtainable ? —2604.
Recruits for entry to the Naval College are
taken at 13. A non-competitive qualifying ex-
amination of approximately high ' school
entrance standard must be taken, after which
medical inspection and a general intelligence
test must be passed. Selected candidates are
appointed to the Naval College at Flinders as
cadet midshipmen in the R.A.N. No expense
is incurred by the candidate or his parents.
From the day of entrance the entire cost of
his course is borne by the Commonwealth
Government. Instruction, clothes, food, all
railway fares and travelling expenses for vaca-
tions, together with Is. per week pocket money
and sporting equipment, are furnished, provided
the parents of the cadet sign an agreement
binding him to serve in the R.A.N. for 12
years after attaining his eighteenth birthday.
For full particulars, write Secretary, Naval
Board, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne.
« * $ *
How is the proposed reconstruction of the
Soviet Navy proceeding ? Names of battle-
ships in commission ? Where are the Soviet
State dockyards situated ? —2640.
Reconstruction is slow. There are four
battleships, the Parizhskaia-Kommuna, Marat,
Frunze and Oktiabrskaia-Revolutsia. All have
been refitted or are in hand for that purpose,
though it has been stated that the Frunze
may be discarded. State dockyards are func-
tioning at Nevsky, New Admiralty, Galernyi,
Ostrov, Leningrad Kronstad* and Vlad vostok.
. ♦ * * *
(1) Wnen was first' settled; io whom
did it belong in past years, and to whom does
it belong now ? (2) Name of capital and popu-
lation ? —2674.
(1) Iceland was first settled in 874. Between
930 and 1264 it was an independent republic,
but by the “Old Treaty” of 1263 the country
recognised the rule of the king of Norway. In
1381, Iceland, together with Norway, came
under the rule of Denmark, but when Norway
was separated from Denmark in 1814 Iceland
remained Danish. Since December 1, 1918, it
has been acknowledged as a sovereign State,
and is united with Denmark only through the
identity of the sovereign. (2) The capital of
Iceland, Reykjavik, had in 1934 a population
of 32,974.
* * * *
What are the ‘'Military Knights of
Windsor ” 3—2613.
Certain military officers who have performed
meritorious services but are not in a position
suitably to maintain themselves are granted
pensions ranging from £5O to £l3O a year,
together with apartments at Windsor Castle,
from which they derive the designation referred
to. They are not knights in the ordinary
sense of the term. Occasionally they act as
guards of honor.
iJC , Jj? rfi i\i
(1) Cure for hives in a man of 25 7 The
complaint comes on when visiting the seaside.
(2) Would injections of any sort give relief ?
2108.
(1) Recurrence suggests oversensitive tissue
due to acidity and lime deficiency. Possibly
there is an anaemic debility that aggravates the
fault. Include green leaf-vegetables, cereals, etc.,
with meals, and take two tablespoons of lime-
water with milk thrice daily for a period before
your seaside holiday. There are many useful
calcium salts on the market. Drink no un-
boiled water when away from home —this may
disagree; also avoid acids and heating foods.
Apply calamine lotion (carbolised 1 p.c.) for
relief of irritation. (2) Injection treatment is
seldom necessary.
* * * *
I suffer from asteo-arthritis of the knees, and
can obtain no relief. Can you prescribe a
beneficial treatment ? —2357.
Animal food and fats should be taken
freely. No known drug or injection can
be relied on as a cure, but cod-liver oil (in-
ternally and externally) benefits in most cases.
Moderate exercise in the open air should be
encouraged. Diathermy and massage are
advised.
?: * ?: *
Methods of growing daphne from slips in
flower ? Should I. wait until the flowers drop ?
—2369.
After the daphne flowers have fallen set the
slips in boxes containing light soil of which
at least 25 p.c. is coarse sand. A layer of
charcoal in the bottom of the boxes will assist
drainage and keep the soil sweet, thus reducing
the risk of collar rot. Firm the soil about the
cuttings, and finally cover the boxes with glass
and place them in a warm situation. The
cuttings will become thoroughly rooted in
about three months, but the plants should not
be shifted to the open garden for at least
a year.
* * * *
How to remove brown stains from terazzo
marble steps 7— 2539.
Terazzo is made of marble chips set in
cement, and some qualities are absorbent to a
slight degree: if the stains have sunk into the
pores of the terazzo it is almost impossible
to remove them. If this has happened, try
sponging with very hot water containing methy-
lated spirit. If the marks are superficial they
can probably be scoured away by a fine
abrading powder like Bon Ami. A paste made
of whiting and methylated spirit laid over the
stains, left un il dry and then brushed off
would be effective for some marks. If you
can state the cause and age of the stains
further advice might be available.
;f ;
How can a leather overcoat be kept in good
condition ? —2432.
Clean occasionally by spreading out on a
table and then sponging with a very well-wrung
sponge to remove all dust and spots. When
dry apply white shoe cream with a flannel,
and polish with another clean flannel. As the
coat becomes worn this treatment may not save
it, so if it is valuable take it to a professional
cleaner and have it re-dressed, but if you start
early with creaming and polishing it will be
a long time before it needs treatment.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin sentence
and who was the author: “Ut in vita, sic in
studiis, pulcherrimum et humanissimum existimo
severitatem comitaiemque miscere, ne ilia in
tristitiam haec in petulantium procedat” ?
2620.
It was written by Pliny the Younger, and a
free English translation is: “As in life so in
our pursuits, I consider it most becoming and
most civilised to mingle severity and good
fellowship, so that the former may not grow
into melancholy nor the latter into frivolity ”
Brief Answers.
N. 8.: The play, “Berkeley Square,” was
written by John L. Balderston in collaboration
with J. C. Squire, and was first produced at St.
Martin’s Theatre, London, on October 6, 1926.
G.J.: A fleet auxiliary is a vessel used for
the purpose of carrying supplies for the fleet,
as a collier (coal), oiler (fuel oil) or store
supply ship (provisions) R.J.: Dalmatia is
a province of Yugoslavia, on the Adriatic.
The population is 623,000, and the area 4900
sq. m., the country being chiefly mountainous.
The chief towns arc Sibenico, Brazza and Cat-
taro... .J.J.G.: From the Government Astro-
nomer, the Observatory, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
.....T.8.: Write Agricultural Dept., Brisbane.
W.J.M.: (1) An inspector is authorised by
Section 8 of N.S.W. Stock Diseases Act to order
treatment. Sec also Stock Diseases Notification
24 in “Government Gazette” of March 6 last. (2)
The Stock Diseases Act 1923 came into opera-
tion on January 14, 1924. (3) The Stock Dis-
eases Act 1923-34 is obtainable at the Govern-
ment Printing Office; 9d., plus postage
H.D.: Wages for watchmaking apprentices in
N.S.W. range from 10s. 6d. per week in the
first year to £2 14s. per week in the sixth year.
Adult watchmakers receive from £4 16s. per
week J.8.C.: Yes, suggest that you send it to
A.8.C., Market-street, Sydney T.G.: Write
Secretary, Air Board, Defence Dept., Sydney.
.. ..E.K.S.: Write Secretary, Naval Board, De-
fence Dept., Melbourne, Victoria V.J.:
Cannot trace the game of “Sixty-six”....
R.H.E.: (1) By submission to a publisher, and
publication, if suitable, on a royalty basis. (2)
By copyrighting the work. (3)' By negotiation
with a film-producing firm. Film rights are
separate from book rights., . .R.G.K.: Inquiry
too vague J.P.: Seedling citrus trees are very
rarely grown, hence seeds from such are un-
procurable from any known source J.D.:
Frank Dalby Davison has written Forever
Morning, Man-Shy, Wells of Beersheba, Carib-
bean Interlude, and, with Brooke Nicholls,
Blue Coast Caravan S.F.: Barcroft Henry
Boake died by his own hand at Middle Harbor.
Sydney, on May 2, 1892, at the age of 26
E.D.: William Howitt published two important
books on Australia, Land, Labor and Gold
(1855) and A History of Discovery in Aust.,
Tas. and N.Z. (1865)... .K.T.L.: Gibboke is
a Vic. abo. place-name meaning a thorn:
Mogolong is a N.S.W. abo. place-name mean-
ing yellow box-tree K.R.: Fellowship of
Australian Writers, Box 3448 R, G.P.0., Syd-
ney: sub., ss. p.a C.M.: It is essential
that members should be given reasonable notice
of the holding of a meeting and the business
to be transacted thereat. In this case it does
not appear that sufficient notice was given, and
consequently the proceedings to rescind the
previous resolution are invalid H.C.M.:
(1) Yes, British copyright does not extend
beyond British dominions. You may sell
separately in Britain and the U.S.A. (2) As
above. (3) The British Copyright Act has
been incorporated in Australian legislation.
(4) Yes, bearing in mind that copyright in a
portrait made to order for valuable considera-
tion belongs to the person to whose order the
portrait was made. The same applies to
photographs. (5) and (6) Your copyright ex-
tends over the whole Commonwealth and is
not limited to any individual State. You may
sell in M.L. You seem to have a wrong im-
pression of “copyright.” It is a protection,
not a limitation. You may sell wherever you
like, but outside the area covered by your
copyright you lose the protection it provides
M.S.: (1) Varies. See The Australian Authors'
and Artists’ Handbook (2s. 6d.). (2) He pos-
sibly intends to pay upon publication. Watch
paper and claim for payment upon appearance.
J.H.: Great Western Railway Co., Pad-
dington Station, London, W. 2; London, Mid-
land and Scottish Railway Co., Euston Station,
London, N.W.I; London and North-Eastern
Railway, Marylebone Station, London, N.W.I ;
and Southern Railway, Waterloo Station, Lon-
don H.G.H.: The journal of the Royal
Numismatic Society is the “Numismatic
Chronicle,” obtainable from the British
Museum, London, W.C.I E.C.: “Vir
movendarum lacrymarum peritissimum,” trans-
lated into English, reads; “A man very skilled
in moving to tears” F.M.: J, J. Hardie,
author of Cattle Camp, Lain ana and The Bridle
Track, was born at Troon, Scotland, on
Dec. 8, 1894... .N.S.: Population figures
1933 census: Devonport, 5220; Queens-
town, 3935; Burnie, 3521; Ulverstone,
2995; and New Norfolk, 2492 .F.W.:
The orange perch is a deep-water fish taken
by trawlers off the coast of N. S. Wales and
Victoria. Though a good table-fish, it is rare
in the markets and does not grow much above
9in. long. During life its coloring is a rich
orange-yellow P.T.: The next meeting of
the Australian and N.Z. Association for the
Advancement of Science will be held in Auck-
land (M.L.) from January 12 to 19, 1937,
inclusive... .H. 8.: In Vic. every person the
unimproved value of whose land exceeds £250
is subject to tax. As the unimproved value
rises above £250, the exemption of £250
diminishes at the rate of £1 for every £1 of
excess, so as to leave no exemption at £5OO.
There is a uniform rate of J-d. per £1 of un-
improved value, plus 5 p.c. super tax, and the
minimum amount payable is 2s. 6d
D.W.R.: Get in touch with Mr. Patterson.
Sydney Technical College, Ultimo C.D.:
Cyanide in contact with air forms hydro-
cyanic or prussic acid, which in a confined
space is deadly; a brief sniff, however, under
reasonable conditions of ventilation, would not
be injurious. Cyanide should always be kept in
airtight tins A.A.: No reliable data are
available as to the record load pulled by one
horse in Australia. Trials of that sort are
highly undesirable, involving cruelty and being
of no practical use S.D.; Fold the collar
so that you can handle it easily, then dip up
and down in petrol until clean. If the dye
is not good, it may run, but petrol is the
safest cleaner if there is any doubt... .S.E.:
Names cannot be published. Inquire at any
public hospital, or write the Registrar, N.S.W.
Eye Clinic, 267-69 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Hon. specialists are attached to Brisbane
General Hospital (Many others mailed.)


\J»
C'
\\.v
s >" N ,«s>
«" v ..v '
#
is-
aSS
ill
ss&w
Wn
£*
rV-
>b
<5-
N
r\
&
,~U\IS FAfl/7/7
£
ff-
&Ss&s*
#
i
further proof
of the greater mileage
and increased power
: : ' ;
made available in
your engine by SUPER
POWER
.08-276
Both these trucks were
standard models taken
from their everyday
jobs and put through
this convincing test.
THESE two trucks were recently run, under
R.A.C.A. supervision and full pay loads , over
90 miles of hard going. Before starting, their
tanks were drained and filled with Super Power
Chief. The Dodge did 18.47 miles per gallon; the
Fargo did 16.22. Think of it! Many motorists can-
not even get such mileages from their cars! What-
ever your engine’s present performance —no
matter what car or truck you drive— you’ll exceed
it easily with Super Power Chief!
5"
P
If -any. illustration in, “The Bulletin” 'takes your
fancy, "write ’to the Manager,, who- will quote yov
price for the original. •
H.M.S. SIRIUS.
BY J.H.M.A.
IN various Sydney newspapers there
has appeared the tentative announce-
ment of a scheme to construct a replica
of H.M.S. Endeavour/ the famous little
“bark” (she was a full-rigged ship, and
the term only refers to her build) in which
Lieutenant James Cook explored the
coasts Of New South Wales and Queens-
land in the first half of 1770.
Had it not been for the Endeavour’s
stay of a week in Botany Bay, of
course, the settlement at Sydney 18
years afterwards might not have taken
place ; but with that event another his-
toric vessel has surely a more intimate
connection than the Endeavour, it was
Commodore Phillip’s flagship, H.M.S.
Sirius,. which was really the star per-
former among the shipping concerned
in Australia’s first white settlement, and
there can be no question about its
superior claims as to playing a part in
the 1938 pageant.
The Endeavour never entered Port
Jackson. The Sirius led the First Fleet
through the Heads on January 26, 1788,
H.M.S. Supply having come from Botany
with the Governor aboard the day before.
Except when engaged in a voyage to the
Cape of Good Hope to obtain provisions
(Oct., ’BB, to May, ’B9) she remained in
the harbor until March 7, 1790, when
she sailed for Norfolk Island, to be
wrecked on the 19th. If any resurrection
is to take place it is the Sirius which
should come .to light again, not the
Endeavour.
The Sirius had originally been named
the Berwick, and was built for, the East
Indian trade in 1780. In the following
year she was bought by the Admiralty
for use .as a storeship. After making
a couple of voyages to the West Indies,
she was laid up until 1787, when Captain
Ar(hUr pKi|lj * R N > recommiss ioned her
t 0 serve as a guardship for the fleet of
vesse j s a bout to transport the personnel
j be projected settlement at Botany
Bay to New Holland.
Some years before she had almost been
destroyed by fire, and had to be very
largely, rebuilt. , The upper works were
repaired, and a top, or spar, deck was
between the lore- and mainmasts
her original mam deck, which thus
'ff” 6 ,he deck. She is usually
stated as having been of 612 tons
burthen . Her. bottom was sheathed with
CO pp er> anc j the bull was painted bright
y e n o w, with a broad black band along
the waterline. The extreme length of the
ship was about 132 feet, and her beam 32
feet, whilst her loaded draught w’as 17 feet,
The height of the mainmast was 122 feet
above the deck. Some idea of her size
may be obtained from the statement that
she might have been suspended by the
bows from the decking of Sydney Harbor
Bridge without wetting her stern.
It would not be a difficult job to recon-
struct the Sirius, especially as the best
authority on .her build and rig, Captain
F. J. Bayldon, R.N.R., lives in Sydney,
The only authentic sketches or drawings
of the ship are to be found in Lieutenant
Bradley’s journal, which is now in the
Mitchell Library. There is a large pic-
ture of her in the British Museum, prob-
ably also by Bradley, who was her first
lieutenant.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Yarragundry”: Riding on the extreme
flank over the Philistine Plain I passed
close to an Arab village and diverged in
quest of eggs. There were none, so I
bought a bottle of arrack. Having two
water-bottles I emptied one and refilled
it with the spirit. When we halted at
midday, I proffered my .bottle to a chap
just arrived at .the regiment. He took
a swig, dropped the bottle and de-
manded, between gasps and tears, “What
the hell was that stuff?” Jokingly 1
replied, “Methylated spirits.” “Yes, I
know,” >he quavered, “but what was
mixed with it?”
* ❖ * *
“S.T.S.”: An odd echo from the Aus-
tralian past is in the new biography of
Sidney Low. Lady Jeune heard in 1895
that H. G. Wells, who had just made a
name with The War of the Worlds, was
living near her, and she insisted on Low
giving her a letter of introduction. “What
horrible thing have you done to us?”
Wells wrote to him ; but afterwards; “She
is really charming. When 1 wrote in pro-
test, I had not seen her. 1 had heard
legends of her collecting habits ; I feared
a sort of higher Sladenism.” Anybody
remember Douglas Sladen and his “col-
lecting habits”? Incidentally, Litvinoff
married Low’s sister.
*’ ■ v
%y* * *
“Tambarari”; Exit, at 84, Franz Stehr,
of Rabaul. ' Franz went to the Bis-
marcks in ’9B when Rabaul was still
a swamp, “mit einen Deier” or there-
abouts, and/like the rest of the popula-
tion, carried a gun when hie went out
past Malaguna. He brought with him a
Silesian wife and family of five in the
Puck,'of which the hull now lies on the
•edge of Blanche Bay. In a little whi|e
he was planting at Makada, on the New
Britain North Coast, for Hernsheim
(who in a year or two will there be to
remember Hernsheim or Hasag?). hie
had had South American and Tongan
training, which stood him in good
stead, and as host of the old Tivoli
Hotel he had been through Apia's well-
remembered hurricane and the rebellion.
Though the war was a blow to him he
was a law-abiding citizen. In 1931 he
lost his wife and retired to the Duke of
York Islands. He leaves two sons and
a daughter, all good colonists. The
Mandated Administration was repre-
sented at his funeral by Earle Page s
brother.
*
“Jamwood”: My 60 Years in the Law
(B. 12/8/’36) contains one rattling good
story. An ambitious young barrister with
a hectoring style was cross-examining a
lady whose lord was charged with wife-
beating. Beginning the cross-examina-
tion, he sternly bade her to remember
that she was on her oath.
“All right, old dear,” the witness replied
cheerfully. She was one of those friendly
creatures who do not trouble about class
distinctions.
“This man is your husband?”
“Worse hick!”
“Now, what is he?” Counsel was
getting a little heated already:
“A liar.”
“No, no” (impatiently). “I mean, what
does he do?”
“Knock me about.”
“Be careful, madam. I want to know
what is his trade.”
“A thief.”
“You know what 1 mean! What does
he live on?”
“Beer.”
Her laconic retorts brought, the cross-
examination to a conclusion, and counsel
retired in . chagrin. He learned better
later, and eventually sat on the Bench in
, the co.urt ,where he had once been so sig-
nally worsted in a battle of wits with the
lady from Drury Lane.
Many of, us have encountered that
sort of counsel, and with that sort of
lady have had at least a distant
acquaintance. ,
“Ex-P.8.1.” : Conlalmaison was not the
first occasion on which an English bat-
talion dribbled a Soccer ball across no-
man’s-land (B. 5/8/’36). Ten months
previously—at Loos in September, 1915
—a battalion of the 47th (London Terri-
torial) .Division hopped the top with a
ball, at the toe. , The battered rem-
nants of : that ball are in the Imperial
War Museum. A somewhat parallel
incident occurred during the Somme
fighting in 1916, when the Coldstream
Guards got into a nasty mess of cross
enfilade machine-gun fire. The advancing
infantry wavered. Lieut.-Col. Campbell,
who was leading his battalion, had been
an M.F.H. in the halcyon pre-war days,
and always carried his horn with him.
Standing alone in the middle of a mur-
derous fire he produced the little silver
horn and blew the “Tally-ho!” The
effect was instantaneous; the Cold-
streams rallied and stormed through the
German defences, cheering and yelling
like madmen. Campbell got the Cross
for his effort, and it is to be hoped that
bis hunting horn is also in the War
Museum.
jjt 'l' *l ;
“Methuselah”: That senior golfers’
society (B. 5/8/’36) is a branch of a
body formed some years ago in Britain
and now established in Yankeeland,
South Africa and Canada. Already a
triangular tourney has been held between
teams, of, ancients from these countries.
One is actually tottering about South
Africa at the present moment.
* * ❖ *
A British editor to The Bulletin: -
Since you published that paragraph about
Paris being now represented by Red deputies
(B. 10/6/’36), France has become Redder and
Redder. An Englishman who has been a
manufacturer in France for 16 years tells me
that Englishmen are being driven out of France
by underground pressure just as much as the
Jews are being driven out of Germany by
official pressure; that at least half as many
Englishmen have been driven out of France
as the total number of Jews who have been
driven out of Germany. He tells me that the
whole of French industry is organised in what
they call “cells.” In the factory itself every-
body knows who the chief of the “cellule" is.
but nobody knows who is the chief to whom
the chief of that particular “cellule” reports,
or from whom he takes his orders. And the
| chief of the “cellule” does not know the names
of the chiefs in the next grades above the
men from whom he takes his orders. It is a
most wonderful underground Communist
organisation. Watch out for the results.


FOR WARWICK FARM.
Campbelltown Handicap; Heri-
tor ; next, Arachne.
Hobartville Stakes; Gold Rod ;
next, Shakespeare.
Warwick Stakes: Cuddle; next,
Sarcherie.
Spring Handicap: Dulcedo ; next,
High Cross or Osculum.
Glenlee Handicap: King Gee;
next, Loud Applause or High Cross.
FOR EPSOM.
Epsom Cup: Young Idea; next.
The Monarch.
Tanti Plate: Grand Mogul; next,
L’Elite.
Tanti Purse: Amonic; next,
Restford.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Tonga is now being discussed as an
A.J.C. Derby candidate. A bay colt by
Rampion—Armada, his size is against
him, and he may be troubled by the
distance; but he possesses speed. He
won his division of the Cape Solander
Handicap, a six-furlong race for three-
year-olds, at Rosebery on Saturday in
highly meritorious style. Shakespeare
and Bobby battled out the finish with
him ; Shakespeare took some shaking off.
Harry Taylor, of Wellington, bred Tonga
and races him. The colt went out at
fives; Grand Boy was favorite.
Ramdin (4 to 1), another son of Ram-
pion (Dinette is the dam), had a softer
task in the second division. Ramdin’s
two-year-old form in Victoria was good ;
he ran second in the Gibson Carmichael
Slakes. At Rosebery he finished too
strongly for The Athenian ; but that big
chestnut, who cost 1700 guineas, has
developed into a nice colt and will never
be troubled by weight. Our Hope was
third and the favorite, Jubilee Singer,
fourth. Toreador was last.
Under light weights Some Boy, though
nothing to look at, is very smart.
Opposed to good sprinters in the first
division of the Flying Handicap, he was
backed to 5 to 2. The Marne, after
leading, could not hold Some Boy, and
was beaten by nearly a length ; at 14 to
I he could scarcely have been fancied
by the stable. The same applies to
Allunga (20 to 1), who was running on
in third place. It was Allunga’s first
outing since his spell. He looks an im-
proved horse.
Cid is not in the Epsom. A pity,
perhaps. Putting in a bulldog finish in
the second division of the Flying Handi-
cap, Mrs. Coward’s horse got up in the
last stride to beat Sarcherie (4 to 1),
whose backing was rather a surprise ;
the pacemaker, Goorka, was third. The
favorite, J accuse, squibbed it after getting
a run on the rails throughout. Journal
showed pace, but did not come home
well ; perhaps bustling tactics don’t suit
him. Cid was backed from sixes to
fours.
Gelded sons of Tippler—No Belle,
both elderly, returned to the winning list
at Rosebery; Havaspot (2 to 1) in the
Brush Hurdles and Dermid (20 to 1) in a
division of the August Handicap. Ridden
by apprentice Doyle, Dermid easily ran
past the favorite. Mala, and equalled
the race record of Imin. 40sec. for the
mile. Verberry was third and Loud Ap-
plause fourth. Mala is obviously no
wonder, nor is his fellow-Maorilander
Gustos, who ran unplaced in Tonga’s
race.
Linstitch (8 to 1), a stable-mate of
Monogram, made hacks of his opponents
in the second division. He cleared out
at the Leger, and scored by four lengths
from Lady Baeda and Rose Gem. The
favorite, Adye, jumped into the barrier
and lost considerable ground. Frassa-
dale went sourly, but Caramba came from
a long way back to finish fourth.
It was a sterling effort on the part of
the bush mare Vaalmore (7 to 1) to carry
9st. and win the Rosebery Handicap.
Darby Munro, on Irving, slowed the
field down, and got a break turning for
home. But Irving is of little account, and
Imbiber had him beaten at the Leger;
then Vaalmore came with the last run.
Golden Treasure disappointed; he did
not stretch out and seemed to be sore.
It was a nine-race programme, and the
club distributed a whole £1216 13s. 4d.,
£166 13s. 4d. being the “richest” prize.
Williamstown gave £2300 for six races;
top, £750; bottom, £3OO. That fitly ex-
presses the difference between pro-
prietary and amateur racing.
* * * *
Melbourne punters had a foretaste at
Williamstown of what they will experi-
ence in the'spring. Confident that Valiant
Chief couldn’t be beaten at standard
weight-for-age in the Underwood Stakes,
they took even money eagerly. Bags
bulged after the race.
It wouldn’t have been so bad had suc-
cess gone to Young Idea (4 to 1) or even
Bustard, Dame Chatter or Beechwood
(each round about fifteens). But the
winner was Petit Fils, faintly supported
at 20 to 1. In May last this gelding,
now in his seventh year, could not extend
Donaster in the King’s Cup at Morphett-
ville (S.A.). Two months later he won
the V.R.C. July Handicap with 9st. 31b.,
yet his record did not suggest class.
Beechwood (Backwood —Clear), win-
ner of the V.A.T.C. Alma Stakes in
February at his last previous start, mainly
caused the downfall of Valiant Chief.
Dashed to the front by Elliot, he set up
a break of several lengths, and showed
such a disinclination to come back to the
field that Voitre, perhaps prematurely,
set out in pursuit. Valiant Chief had
Frank Musgrave’s colt collared before
they turned for home. At this stage
Young Idea seemed to be travelling best
of the others ; but he rounded the bend
rather awkwardly, and it became mani-
fest that he could not overtake the
favorite.
This Voitre realised, but his natural
expectation of plain sailing thereafter was
short-lived. Helped by a clear passage
on the rails Petit Fils, who had been
second-last four furlongs from home,
swooped down on the favorite, and, with
both horses under the whip for the last
50 yards, Telford’s neddy scored by a
head. Young Idea being two lengths
farther away. The time for a mile and
55 yards (Imin. 43sec.) was a second
slower than the record which Young
Idea established 12 months ago. Mak-
ing allowance for the squally weather,
it was fast travelling.
Engaged in the Caulfield Cup, at Bst.
51b., Petit Fils gets 81b. from Valiant
Chief, to whom he had to concede a
pound at Williamstown. Crofts’s four-
year-old may not run in the Caulfield
Cup ; if he does he will be preferred to
Petit Fils. Latter is by the sire of Waltz-
ing Lily, His stable-mate, Break Up,
also has Bst. 51b. in the Caulfield Cup,
and may be Telford’s main hope.
Break Up ran fourth in the Truganina
Handicap, Preston, who served his
apprenticeship with Telford, would have
almost swept the boards on the flat if
he had brought Break Up home. He
had won on Allendale, Petit Fils and
Intruder.
Allendale’s success was in the Three-
year-old Handicap. He scored by less
than a length from Conandale, the colt
that recently entered the sale ring Tn
rather dramatic circumstances. On
Grand National Steeple Day the stew-
ards, acting on “information,” took
swabs of saliva from Conandale, They
were found to contain no deleterious
substance. J. P. Arthur and his trainer,
P. B. Quinlan, aggrieved over the inci-
dent, sent their horses up to auction, and
Conandale fell to the bid of Eli Phillips,
the hotelkeeper, at 675gns. Phillips
evidently got value for his money ; Con-
andale —though pronounced a bad track
worker by his trainer, Temby—put in an
impressive finish. Twenty years ago
Phillips captured a Grand National
Hurdle with Jullundur, but he hasn’t
had a great deal of success with gallopers.
Allendale is a chestnut, and chestnuts
by Rossendale have generally been
good ’uns. Duchess Glass, the dam, was
bred by the late John Brown, and is by
Duke Foote from Quair Glass, by Tra-
quair, the sire of Woorak. King, who
trains Allendale, did rather well with
Metallurgy, a bay son of Rossendale.
The present star member of King’s team
is of commanding size and substance, and
should develop into a genuine stayer.
Intruder, on whom Preston effected a
14-to-l surprise in the August Handicap,
is by Dignity (sire of Break Up) from
Encroach (imp.). He compensated Jim
Pengilly for Brilliant Son’s having suffered
another defeat in the Hurdle Race. No
excuse could be offered for Brilliant Son
on Saturday beyond that King’s Warden
was too good for him at the weights.
Both Brilliant Son and Intruder race in
A. •G. Barlow livery. It was only the
second victory of Intruder, but he may
win again soon. Gay Friar, a 2-to-l
favorite, did not shape nearly as well
for Dempsey as he had done for Percival
at Caulfield ; in actual fact, his display
was wretched.
Turoa Webster, the M.L. jockey who
took up residence in Melbourne a few
seasons ago, outrode little Smart in the
Truganina Handicap and got old Heros
(a 5-to-2 favorite) home by half a head
from Phenomenon (7 to 1). Heros and
Sarno were the only absolute favorites to
score during the day. Sarno ran down
many of the fences in the Steeplechase,
but was far too speedy for his rivals,
romping home in advance of Claronga
and Welbeck,
* * * *
Two months ago Jack Pratt, the Syd-
ney jockey, and a daughter of Gordon
Luscombe, the hotelkeeper and race-
horse-owner, were engaged to be mar-
ried. Now they are both dead. The girl
was the first to go. and her fiance fretted
so much that he became a hospital case.
Riding work at Moorefield on -August
11, he fainted in the saddle, and though
the fall was not the actual cause of death
he passed away in St. Vincent’s Hospital
on Sunday night. Still only 21, the poor
fellow was a very successful horseman.
He was Sylvandale’s jockey, and rode the
winners of the last two Metrops., Waikare
and Oro.
♦** * ■
Spear Prince must be slipping. In the
Q.T.C. National Plate this splendid
stayer of last ’season failed to see out a
mile and a quarter, being well beaten a
furlong from home. As it was a weight-
for-age race, many punters dismissed this
form from their reckoning, and made
Spearfelt’s son a 5-to-2 favorite-for the
Metropolitan Handicap on the Wednesday
-—a mile-and-a-half race. Again he took no
actual part in the finish, which was most
exciting; Thalwyn (7 to 1) beat First
Buzzard (4 to 1) by a head, with
Bachelor’s Gift (7 to I) a short head away.
It was Thalwyn’s second Metropolitan.
First Buzzard is a four-year-old chestnut
gelding by The Buzzard —Early Girl, and
a rather promising sort.
* * * *
Pike has been granted a No. 1 trainer’s
license for Randwick, and will start in
his new calling with Night of Love and
Kagawa. He has rented portion of
Poison’s stables, but is looking round for
a place of his own. He will, of course,
be able to ride work, if necessary, as
King sometimes does, and if a man with
his understanding of horses does not suc-
ceed as a trainer it will be sheer bad luck.
% Jfc % He
Garrio has developed a “leg,” and has
been scratched for all spring engage-
ments. Sydney punters will not regret it,
for the colt cost them a mint of money
at Easter. If he gets over his trouble and
comes back fit in autumn he should prove
that his Williamstown Cup win was no
fluke.
* * * *
“Divvy”: So eagerly have Victorians
taken to the tote that the V.R.C., in
common with lesser clubs, is increasing
facilities. At Flemington a special tote
for women punters will be placed in the
members’ stand at the eastern end, and
betting and collecting will all be done
under cover. Other improvements are a
new grandstand in the public reserve and
a huge public luncheon-room. Tote turn-
over for the year was £642,960, as against
£616,000 for the year before. The annual
report shows that added money is less
than for the centenary year, but the club
was still £6OOO better in this respect
than for 1934. Further increases are
forecast for the coming year.
Foolbrawl
There was no change in the V.F.L.
“four” as a result of Saturday’s games.
Collingwood and “Sowth” are well in
front, both with 56 points, first place
going to Collingwood by a fairly sub-
stantial margin on percentages. Carlton
is still third, level in competition points
with Melbourne, but Melbourne, its per-
centage improved by a 62-point win over
North, moved up closer. Richmond is
on the down grade, the latest evidence a
defeat at the hands (and feet) of Haw-
thorn (the first) 15-12 to 14-16.
North Melbourne suffered a blow to
its pride—it ranked itself the most im-
proved team in the League—in the game
against Melbourne. Melbourne had
things all its own way, and with better
shooting the margin at the finish, 14-23
to 5-15, would have been greater. Col-
lingwood was never in trouble against
St. Kilda; 14-13 to 11-11. Atro-
cious goal-kicking almost lost South
Melbourne the game against Essendon.
The ’Dons managed 12-16; “Sowth’s”
figures were 11-30! Carlton (12-22) had
little to spare against Footscray (12-14),
but Geelong took the opportunity of
running up a big score against Fitzroy,
20-21 to 6-8.
* * % *
On a ground which resembled a lake
the Australian Rugby Union team was
beaten in its first match at Auckland.
Tt tried to throw the greasy ball about
among the backs, thus giving the Auck-
land forwards plenty of opportunities.
Storey, the Australian full-back, finished
off a movement with a fine try and Hayes
converted. Auckland made it level peg-
ging with a try, also converted; another
a little later put it ahead 8-5. Thus it
remained to the finish, the Australians
persisting in their efforts to play open
football instead of keeping the ball
among the forwards. Cerutti, one of the
forwards, finished with a fractured jaw.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby Union question at
the moment is whether Eastern Suburbs
or University will be in “the four.” East
beat Parramatta 6-3 last Saturday; it
can still scrape in if it defeats Rand-
wick next Saturday and University goes
under to Western Suburbs. University,
an early competition leader, slipped
badly against St. George ; Saints over-
came the Students by 16 to 14. Rand-
wick romped home against Manly, 36-3 ;
seven tries (two of them by full-back
Bedford). West, now second with Drum-
moyne, also put on seven tries against
Gordon, though the baby also did well
to notch five, 31-22 ; and Drummoyne
got six to North’s one, 20-6.
Best game of the day, and one of the
most interesting of the season, was Com-
bined G.P.S. v. Military College. Out-
weighted in forwards and backs, the
schoolboys were the first to score, the
full-back dodging and breaking his way
through half a dozen tackles for a try.
But R.M.C. scored two tries, and in the
last few minutes a field goal and another
try made it 13-5.
•1* H* '!• H*
“Lond”: Aston Villa has published its
balance sheet for the disastrous period
during which it was fighting to avoid
being sent down into the second division
of the League. In the last four seasons
it has spent £lOO,OOO in buying new men.
Eight of them cost over £lOOO each, and
two of them, near the finish, £lO,OOO
each. Eventually it had 13 old inter-
nationals at its disposal. And now—
well, the crossword humorists have Just
discovered that the only anagram for
“Aston” is “sat on.”
, (Continued on next page.)
“Hamilton”: Sarazen and his partner,
Helen Hicks are losing no time. Sydney
engagements included lectures and exhibi-
tions at Anthony Horderns’ —there is one
in the lunch hour fo-day. In Victoria,
special interest will attach to a mixed
foursomes in which Sarazen and Helen
will oppose H. L. Williams and Joan
Lewis. This match is down for the Vic-
toria course on September 17.
* * *
“Cottesloe”: In the hockey at Perth,
Westralia took the championship and the
Noall Shield for the second time. It won
four games. Queensland was second with
three wins, and N.S.W. (2), Victoria (1)
and S.A. (0) followed.
* * *
“Splash’ - ’; N.S.W. swimmers have re-
solved to invite a team of Yankee cracks,
including Medica and Pick, to Sydney.
In order to provide what one paper calls
“adequate opposition” a Japanese side is
also to be invited.
* * * *
“New Farm”: It is like old times to
read that Brisbane is thinking of starting
a polo club again. Queensland has
always kept polo going on the Darling
Downs, and the writer once played with
a St. George team as far west as Roma,
but the game never dug in there, the
disastrous drought of 1899-1903 putting
the lid oni In Brisbane interest waned
when the Hunt Club died, but for some
time occasional matches with N.S.W,
were played. Literature played quite a
part in those contests. Among the N.S.W.
warriors were “Banjo” Paterson. Queens-
land fielded “Steele Rudd” Davies.


it steals your car's power
To get aU the speed, all the power that
your engine can give, you must provide
iull. powerful sparks that ignite and bum
all the iuel instantly. This reduces carbon
and soot, the thieves ol power. For these
better sparks, install new Champions once
every year.
Champion
Sparking *
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
j
k
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
From “Three-bobber":
The National Boxing Club —so called be-
cause it is neither national nor a club,
being a Sydney syndicate—has no luck
at all. Seven months ago it was looking
forward complacently to the most prosperous
year in its history; and certainly it then had
two excellent draws in Palmer and Henne-
berry. In a fatuous moment it matched the
pair, though one was a light middleweight and
the other a heavyweight; and it lost the ser-
vices of both.
Palmer burst the Henneberry boom, and
Henneberry went om of action. Then the
"club” matched Palmer with one of the coons
of whom it is so fond. An ivory-hard negro
skull reopened Palmer's old eye wound, and
while half-blind the white was badly knocked
about. He straightway announced his retire-
ment.
Meanwhile, the “club” had engaged the
ageing Rosenbloom, described in the “Satur-
day Evening Post” as “a skittish cream-pull;
puncher,” for a series of contests. It was, of
course, intended that he should meet Palmer
at least twice, but another American heavy-
weight, Simpson, was brought out to keep
one or other occupied in between. With
Palmer unavailable, Simpson limped into the
ring to box Rosenbloom, having wrenched an
ankle two or three days before. The poor
devil fell in the fourth round and couldn't
get up again. Exit Simpson.
Only Kelly was left. He and Rosenbloom
put on a dull exhibition in Sydney, and a
duller one in Melbourne. The disgusted Mel-
bourne crowd grew tired of counting them out.
Meantime Palmer had agreed to meet Rosen-
bloom for a guarantee of £1250. On thinking
it over he discovered that 15-rounders no
longer appealed, and that he would have to
get his £1250 for boxing 12 rounds with “the
cream-puli puncher,” who is no longer “skit-
tish.” He then agreed to box 15 rounds.
Henneberry, for his part, had been matched
with a new “sensation,” the Mexican Romero.
Before the battle, mother, Romero demanded
£5OO in notes, and did not think better of it
until he had kept a hooting crowd waiting
for three-quarters of an hour. Then in the
twelfth round he was adjudged to have fouled
Henneberry, who was declared the winner.
The management altered , the referee’s verdict
to one of “no fight,” which gave it the
“right” to deprive the Mexican of his money.
An American manager intervened with a claim
to a third of Romero’s share. Perhaps the
“club” would do better if it promoted pole-
sitting competitions.
* * * *
If Palmer had not been persuaded out
of his intention to return to England and
meet Petersen, he would most probably
be champion of England and the Empire
to-day. Petersen, probably the worst
fighter who ever claimed both titles, was
knocked out in three rounds the other
day by the South African Ben Foord.
Foord’s best previous performance was
a victory over George Cook, who is
qualifying for the old-age pension.
❖ ❖ * *
The negroes who handle Louis are
continuing their policy of looking for
easy marks among the old fellows. It
failed in the case of Schmeling, but
answered again last week, when Louis
got the equivalent of £9OOO sterling for
polishing off Sharkey in three rounds.
To those wise in the ways of pugs, Demp-
sey threw out a sure tip by pronouncing
Sharkey “a better boxer” than Louis
and tougher;—
He can take a punch and hit just as
hard as, if not harder than, Schmeling. I
know now that Louis can’t take a punch,
and the hiding he got from Schmeling left
him gun-shy.
The old gentleman was equally positive
that Baer would beat Louis and Louis
Schmeling. There are few worse judges
of horses than jockeys, and no worse
judges of boxers than boxers.
Ins and Outs
“Five Ways”: The annual report of
the Queensland C.A. is excellent in
parts. Last season was the association’s
jubilee year, and, though the loss was close
on £6OO, accounts show £BOOO of assets
over liabilities—the assets include Bris-
bane Cricket Ground, valued at £6700.
The season was Queensland’s tenth in the
Sheffield series, and the most inglorious.
One bright patch was the success of
young Tallon, who proved himself a
batsman and wicketkeeper fit for any
company. He headed the State averages
at 55.66, with a “highest” of 193. The
Australian selectors missed a great chance
of being accused of foresight when they
neglected to give this youngster a trial
in South Africa.
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W.C.A. has re-
solved to withdraw the permit system
which has proved such a nuisance in
grade cricket. Players who appear for
three matches with a club will be con-
sidered as belonging to it, and clubs are
put on their honor to attempt no funny
business. The vexed question of domi-
cile in regard to some of the Australian
players since they went to South Africa
has been arbitrarily settled. McCabe,
Chipperfield and O’Reilly will play with
their last season’s clubs, Mosman, W.
Suburbs and St. George respectively.
A motion to ban the new steel bat-
handle was passed out. As one delegate
said, trials had shown that there was no
appreciable difference between cane and
steel handles. He was right, for after all
it is the batsman and not the handle of
his hat that counts.
Last year’s selectors, Boyce, Dwyer
and Vincent, were re-elected, Bardsley
being rejected. There is plenty of work
ahead, the rebuilding of the N.S.W.
Eleven being imperative.
* * $ *
“Aigburth”; Holmes has pulled out of
the team for Australia —“business” is
given as a reason. This will mean the
selection of another amateur as vice-
captain unless the M.C.C. give Robins,
another bowler, the job. Wyatt seems
the obvious choice, but a lot of folk are
agitating for the inclusion in the team
of Paynter, the Lancashire pro. who did
so well here with Jardine’s XL
* * * *
England beat India in the third and
last Test match at Kennington. In Eng-
land’s first innings Hammond (217) and
Worthington (117) made most of the
score of 471 for eight, declared, Nissar
taking 5 for 120. India lost one for 119,
but could only total 222, Merchant and
Mustafa Ali making 52 each. Slow-
bowler Sims took 5 for 73 on a good
wicket. Following on, India reached 312.
Merchant 48, Nayudu 81, Hussain 54 and
Amar Singh 44; Allen 7 for 80. Voce
was harmless-—1 for 86.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: There was a mild sensa-
tion in V.F.A. circles when a Northcote
“Let the poor little fellow play with it, Cyril —we
still have the other one.”
player told the association he had been
offered £25 in real money to run a bye
in the match with Brighton. Football
is a hard game to ready-up. There was
a case in Melbourne years ago, and in
Brisbane the 1888-89 M.L. Native team
were accused of trying to sell a match.
In each case it was impossible to keep
the thing dark, though no action was
taken,
* # * *
“Hotham”: Heavy weather continues
to be the lot of the V.F.A. At a recent
meeting reference was made to clubs
drawing £2 gates, and it was suggested
that one or two of the weaker clubs be
thrown out and replaced with district
clubs not at present included in the senior
ranks. It seems inevitable that sooner or
later the association must amalgamate
with the much more powerful and pros-
perous League. Knowing, however, that
“amalgamation” is a polite equivalent of
“devoured” in this case, association en-
thusiasts are fighting to the last ditch
against overtures towards a merger.
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne “Age,” which
makes much of its regard for the Austra-
lian game of football, gives, as an example
of the way the Coulter law fixing pay-
ments is flouted, an instance of a player
who has four clubs chasing him with
offers far in excess of the sums per-
mitted by the Coulter safeguards. The
“Age” practically condones the breach
it deplores by publishing no names.
* * * ❖
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Fire Brigades
team, which includes inter-State players,
had a successful flying tour to Adelaide
and Melbourne. Giving what the locals
describe as the best exhibition of Rugby
Union seen in the Holy City the tourists
won 47-21 from a South Australian team.
In Melbourne, a State side was defeated
28-20.
* * * *,
“Jachris”; St. Joseph’s College has
again gone through the Sydney G.P.S.
Rugby Union competition without a
defeat, scoring 256 points to 36, as against
263 to 27 last season. It was the school’s
sixth premiership in seven years (all with-
out losing a match), and the tenth since
the present coach. Brother Henry, took
over in 1923. As Frank Gaffney, Brother
Henry was a Queensland half-back late
in the last century. In the 14 years of
his coaching the college first teams have
put on 2786 points to 513 in all games ;
the seconds’ record has been even better :
this season they scored 255 to nil in their
seven matches!_ And the thirds were also
undefeated, with 229 to 19. Also it’s the
only school ever to beat The Rest; this
year’s 16-8 win was the fourth. For the
final match a young brother of the
Kelaher who is with the Australian team
in M.L. came from the seconds to fill a
vacancy in the firsts, played a rattling
good game and scored a fine try. He
also is a left-winger.
“Shrewsbury”: A record in football
tours began when a team from The King’s
School left Sydney for a series of games
against the leading Rugby schools of
England and Scotland —Wales is not in-
cluded for some reason. R. O. A. Martin,
president of the N.S.W.R.U., an old
King’s boy, is the bear leader. Results
should be interesting. The standard of
school Rugby in Britain is high, for it is
no uncommon thing to find a player
given his international cap while still at
school, and the tourists are likely to find
tough opposition in such teams as Bed-
ford Grammar, Merchant Taylors,
Fettes and Edinburgh Academy. Other
opponents will include Rugby itself and
Balliol and Jesus Colleges at Oxford and
Cambridge respectively.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland golfers
weren’t long answering the summons to
the Australian championships (B.
19/8/’36). The brass has been piling in,
and the amateur side has been chosen
J. H. Ratcliffe (capt.), Colledge, Gill.
Henry, Jenkinson, Twemlow and Joyce.
Emergencies include D. von Nida, ama-
teur brother of Queensland’s open cham-
pion. Ratcliffe has for years been one
of the finest players in Australia, but cir-
cumscribed opportunities and lack of
first-class competition have kept him out
of the limelight.
* * * *
“Gaines”; In Queensland the raising ui
a fund to send a team of amateur golfers
to the Australian championships at Mel-
bourne has stirred up the professionals.
Some of these are keen on having a shy
at the big money in Melbourne, especially
in the match for the Vicars Shield. It
is suggested that any money left over
from the fund for the amateurs —£150
only will be needed for the seven to be
sent —be handed over to the profes-
sionals’ fund, arid this will probably be
done.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland is confident
it has another Pam
Barton in Miss J.
Beet, an 18-year-old
lass from the Beau-
desert cow-country.
Though she has had
little or no coaching,
the girl won the first
countryw omen’s
championship of the
State in great style
with a card of 93, 90
—lB3. She was at
once honored with
an invitation to part-
ner Helen Hicks in a
four-baller at Royal
Queensland against
Dot Hood, the State
champion, and Mrs.
Gardiner, last year's
titieholder.
•I- 'i s
“San dringham”;
There should be a
record gallery if Jim
Perrier and H. L.
Williams meet in the
Victorian amateur
championship, which begins on Septem-
ber 1. They are drawn together in the
third round, and should survive until then.
The Victorian lefthander has been play-
ing extraordinary golf, and Perrier’s trip
home has by all accounts improved him
immensely. In their few meetings to
date honors have been with Williams.
The championship will be a knockout
affair for the first time.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Since the Olympiad,
successful teams have been snowed
under by invitations to show in various
countries. Jesse Owens has refused and
has been suspended by the American
Olympians. His trainer told London
newspapers that the way the successful
athletes have been hawked about
(“bought and sold like cattle to Con-
tinental promoters”) equals anything
done in the old professional days when
teams of peds. were owned and run by a
boss. But the same is true of many ama-
teur sports nowadays; tennis, for
example.
❖ * * ❖
“Adam”: Announced that the Olym-
pic committee may separate the men’s
and women’s games at the next Olympiad
at Tokio, holding the girls’ tamasha after
the men have finished. Reasons for the
change are not published, but the
Yankees have dropped a hint by stating
that men and women members of teams
will not in future travel by the same ship.
This follows fast on the reports of
whoopee with cocktail accompaniments
among the American team going to
Europe, and the suspension of a lady
swimmer accused of hitting things up a
hit too high.
“Jachris”: All going well, Lyall Wall,
an 18-year-old Sydney High School bo>.
should make the Australian team for the
next Olympic Games. Last week at the
combined high school sports he broke
school records in both high and broad
jumps. His 23ft. for the broad not
only beat Dickinson’s school record by
Ift. Bin., but was 9in. better than Jack
Lobban’s winning jump in this year’s
Australian championships at Hobart, and
with 6ft. 2in. for the high jump he was
only fin. below Shetliffe’s jump in win-
ning the Australian title.


V't -
llli
iHI
fit
E« '
in*
.
wlf#P
i if, ;mi lr< «/ 1 ,
Hi
Hi
H
Mi
ai
ilii
*
■■JHHfci
Pli’t ‘
4 4
m
s I- ' f &M jSip: :M.
Wf : iff
in* > - % - :l ~ £
wm
m?.
idP
* ■ M
■ r- v ; s
mmmmmm
' faii
pMISKYI
I ■
lb me
■
JM?
IHp*
t.
*Sr '
■ ■
A Very Pleasant Evening!
What does it matter, after all, how many you finished above or below the line? A good old chatty
game of Auction with a few good friends, and a bottle of Milne's to help things along— -that s the
spirit!
And the ladies also enjoy their spot of Milne's! They appreciate its delicate aroma, its velvety
smoothness, and the mellow glow created by this superfine whisky.
For that next happy party, either at home or where it is necessary to take your own "reviver, get
a bottle of Milne's; and, if you prefer, it can also be bought in half-size flat bottles
to conveniently fit the pocket.
Milne's is not a new product. For many years the southern States have enjoyed
this specially selected Australian malt whisky, and because it is guaranteed pure
pot stilled, and won the first prize at the Royal Centenary Show—proof enough of
its quaiity—you, too, will surely change to Milne's, and your judgment will confirm
its superiority.
MILNE’S WHISKY
is sold at a price to suit your purse, because there is no primage or exchange and
duty is little more than half that of imported whiskies.
bottle
in Metropolitan Area,
Country Slightly Higher.
New South Wales Distributors for the House of MILNE
CAWSEY MENCK T. & S.
447 Kent Street, Sydney.
>-
U/
v
<
—-^i
2
—
<
rv
c/>
< <r
z..~Ss
* v *'. l«IAIf*ttffN> ? "*''


A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
VSdCat
fStefith
O_:J
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
August Issue Now on Sale.
THE TARIFF AND THE CONSTITUTION
A Market Review
AUSTRALIA’S PRODUCTION PROSPECTS
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Wished bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 232 George Street, Sydney, and all States
k
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.8, Victoria.
BRANDALER3
m
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
a 88. ANDAU £E A CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Putaruru Pine and Pulp Co.
In B. 1/7/’36 the “booklet” of this co.
offering “pine land investments” was
criticised. A quarter-acre of Finns in-
signis in Maoriland for £lO on terms or
£9 cash was the contract, subject to con-
ditions which were the main feature of
comment in the article. “No balance
sheet is included in the booklet” was one
point taken. Since then Douglas Stuart
Wylie, who signed as general manager
of Putaruru at Dec. 31, 1935, has called
at this office, and has supplied balance
sheets for the past two years.
These documents make the position of
bondholders clearer, but still not per-
fectly plain. At Dec. 31, 1935, the co.
owed secured creditors £11,223 (down
£5420) and had other debts, apart from
liabilities to bondholders, of £2554 (down
£874). How much of the debt, if any,
is on account of bondholders' land isn’t
apparent from the accounts ; the co. holds
land, planted and unplanted, on its own
account, valued at £15,573. This repre-
sents stock-in-trade, and is so treated in
the p. and I. account.
Paid share capital is £49,308. A re-
serve for maintenance, forfeitures, etc.,
stands at £31,724 (up £2584). Forfeited
shares reserve (£116), p. and 1. balance
(£2390), and the creditors already men-
tioned make up a liabilities and capital
total of £97,315.
These funds are represented on the
assets side as to £30,870 by nothing that
can be chopped with an axe or paid into
a bank —in other words, preliminary and
establishment exes. Then there are £15,573
in unsold land, £3229 plant, etc., £6047
invested in and loaned to Aust. Pine and
Pulp Co., £27,119 in unpaid bond
moneys, £634 in investments, £lBO5 in
debtors, and £299 cash in hand and
bank. “Reserve funds, £17,784, less
maintenance to date, £6045,” are ex-
tended at £11,739. And here is a point
on which the balance sheet isn’t at all clear.
The “booklet,” representing the “entire
understanding of the respective parties,”
permitted the maintenance fund to be
invested in mortgages. Government
securities or fixed deposits. The accounts
don’t say in what form of security the
fund is held, and they most certainly
should. One thing, however, is perfectly
apparent; with a balance-sheet total of
less than £lOO,OOO, the co. is in no position
to guarantee erection of a pulping mill.
It hasn’t committed itself to erect one,
but there have been vague suggestions
that a mill of some kind might be put up.
P. and 1. figures are interesting. Bond
and land sales for the year to Dec. 31,
1935, brought in £38,081. Office and
selling exes, ran off with £13,540 —35.6
p.c.! Loss on forfeitures accounted for
£10,722, while planting and maintenance
allowance was £6050. Miscellaneous in-
come contributed £451, and directors’ fees
appear at £5O. Land, £21,535 at the be-
ginning of the year, was down £5962 at
the close. “Net profit” is shown at
£2208, and a 4 p.c. div. is recommended.
The costly nature of bond-selling, etc.,
is plain from the accounts. Putaruru
has lately been charging from £36 to £4O
an acre ; Pacific Forests, a shareholders’
co., looks like doing the job for less than
£l5 an acre.
Putaruru is putting forward a scheme
for amalgamation of shareholders and
bondholders. A tentative proposal takes
the following shape:
(1) Assets and liabilities of Putaruru
Pine and Pulp Co. to be taken over, and
(«) Assets of Putaruru to be valued. Valu-
ation to be made by a committee of
bondholders’ advisory directors and
directors of Putaruru.
ib) Shares to be issued to Putaruru for
the surplus of assets over liabilities.
(2) Bonds to be taken over from bond-
holders and shares to be Issued on the
following basis:
(u) Fully-paid bonds: Shares to be issued
to the nominal value of bonds, with
5 p.c. added for each year from appli-
cation until bonds became fully paid,
and 10 p.c. to be added for each year
from the time bonds became fully
paid.
(b) Contributing bonds: Shares to be
issued to the nominal value of bonds
applied for, with 5 p.c. added for each
year since date of application. A
liability of uncalled capital to remain
to the extent unpaid on such bonds.
Until a valuation is arrived at the re-
capitalisation basis is indefinite. If it
favors bondholders, conversion to shares
should be to their benefit.
Mandated Alluvials provided the
highlight of Sydney Stock Exchange
mining-share transactions last week. The
scrip leapt from 6s. to over 21s. in short
time; there was considerable forward
dealing, though there are only 46,300 ss.
shares issued, mostly well held (Pioneer
“Sorry I can't help you, old man — it's had me tricked for months."
Gold has a swag). There was a reaction
later in the week to 165., then a recovery
to 18s. The property is not in the Man-
dated Territory, and it isn’t alluvial; it is
the Moresby King mine, 16j miles in a
northerly direction from Port Moresby,
Papua. It appears to be a large ore-
body, and values have been promising.
Mining men who have seen the show to
the present stage have liked the outlook.
%
Most English papers are only too ready
to whoop about Australia’s increased buy-
ing abroad, whether able to pay or not.
London “Economist” takes a more sober
view. Commenting on our last year’s
trade balance, it says that we are living
slightly beyond our means, and have
been fortunate in being able to import
capital last year. If imports continue to
expand, we may have difficulty in build-
ing up London funds, “which have sunk
below the level of recent years.” "Slightly
beyond our means” doesn’t sound too
bad ; but in Mr. Micawber's philosophy
didn’t that state of affairs mean misery?
* * * *
P. R. Higgins, chairman of Standard
Portland Cement, last week criticised the
report of the Tariff Board and the
Federal Government’s intention of cut-
ting out altogether the reduced (7s. 6d.
a ton) duty on British cement as
from December 1. The board, he said,
recommended that Commonwealth plant
valuation in excess of 900,000 tons should
be written off —that involves (in the
books) a theoretical scrapping of plant
with a rated capacity of 423,000 tons
p.a. Peak Australian production (for
the year 1927-28) was 776,186 tons. Mr.
Higgins claims that output of more than
75 p.c. of rated capacity, allowing for
repairs, etc., is not possible, and that
reserve plant capacity is essential in. a
country like Australia. Which seems
reasonable, but it may not be appreciated
by a Government which is years behind
with its defence preparations, and which
has been extraordinarily neglectful in
providing aerial facilities. Higgins also
made a comparison (such as was made
here a couple of months back) between
the 71 to 10 p.c. divs. of Australian
cement cos. and the 20 p.c. distributions
of English concerns.
C. A. Jaques, chairman of Kandos
Cement, commenting on the “natural
protection” which the industry is said
to receive, points out that freights for
cement from London to Sydney can be
got at 13s. 6d. a ton, while railway freight
from Kandos (near Wallerawang,
N.S.W.) to Sydney is 20s. Bd. a ton. Just
one of many telling arguments in favor
of a fairer attitude towards the industry.
* * * *
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd., the chain-store
drapery and furnishing concern—it has
six large city stores and about 30 coun-
try branches in all States except Queens-
land —earned profits of £60,835 for the
year to June 30, up £31,289 compared
with last year. The result is equal to
49.6 p.c. on ord. capital, allowing for
pref. requirements, as against 11.3 p.c.
in 1934-35. A 15 p.c. ord. div. is de-
clared, the first for six years. There was
a reconstruction in 1932, but no capital
was jettisoned. The latest profit was
announced in Melbourne on August 18,
but wasn't accompanied by balance-sheet
figures. At £44,113 at June, 1935, stocks
were a low item in a capital of £372, l-o
—only £81,636 of it in ords., the rest 7
p.c. prefs. Debtors and hire-purchase
agreements (£288,944) then represented
the biggest item, indicating the nature of
part of the co.’s selling methods. Head-
quarters have been shifted from Fitzroy
to Bourke-street, Melbourne, with signal
success. The shares sold at 70s. follow-
ing the profits and div. announcement.
Reserves amount to £34.330. subject to
goodwill (£42,069).
* * * *
Registered in Sydney the other day
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty., Ltd., with
a nominal capital of £20,000. Directors
are V. G. Watson, P. Kent and J. A. L.
Gunn, the last-named an income-tax
authority. The fixed-trust movement in
Britain has gone ahead like wildfire the
last couple of years. A managing co.
and a trustee look after the interests ot
the collective investors (called unit-
holders) ; often the trusts specialise in a
particular type of ordinary shares, such
as industrials, banks and insurance scrip.
Well handled, these trusts have definite
attractions, but much depends upon the
state of the sharemarket and trading
conditions. There are indications at
present that average share prices and
company profits are approaching a post-
depression peak; if that is so, oppor-
tunities for spectacular results are re-
stricting.
* s'c *
Sydney and suburban building per-
mits valued at £1,036,000 were issued in
June —the best figure since February.
The other month during the past year in
which the million-pound mark was ex-
ceeded was July, 1935.
:J<
Policies issued by the Ordinary de-
partments of life offices operating in N. S.
Wales during 1935-36 were more than
twice the number taken out in the 1931-
32 depression year, and represented
nearly double the sum assured. O.D.
policies represent contracts for £lOO or
more, with premiums payable at the
office of the society. The average policy
taken out in the latest year was for
£328, the total assurances £14,442,724.
and the number of policies 43,985. New
industrial policies numbered 151,812 in
1935-36, as against 89,736 in 1931-32.
The sum assured under them rose from
£4,203,000 to £6,337,000 over the period.
Bagged wheat, on trucks, Darling
Harbor, kept around ss. Id. last week.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Uhper Watut scrip fell to 3s. lid. on
rumors that Bulolo might not exercise its
option over the 400,000 shares. The U.W.
management stated that Bulolo, now testing
the property, had not indicated such an in-
tention. Unofficial reports are that tests have
been satisfactory. The shares recovered some-
what, standing at 4s. 6d. on Friday.
The market took G. J. Coles’s new share-
issue proposals uncertainly; the £1 ords., after
rising to 865., dropped back to 81s.
Yellow Cabs declared a p.c. div. (un-
altered rate), not quite covered by trading
profits, but made possible by a surplus on the
sale of some cabs. The outlook is sufficiently
encouraging, apparently, to have prompted the
buying of additions to the fleet. In Sydney
taxi fares have never been cheaper, but in
Melbourne (“Yellows” cruise in both cities) it
is another story.
Mammoth (Centralia) fully-paid shares sold
at 3s. on Friday. The contribs. are firmer.
Morning Star (Wood’s Point) scrip was in
demand around 3s. Bd. This is a producing
mine with possibilities. Central Nell Gwynne
(Bendigo) lifted to 325. following a better
crushing, and Wattle Gully (Chewton) was
stronger at 28s. The Cocks shows at Eldorado
were in the doldrums.
Yarra Falls shares dropped a few pence
below 405., and were good buying.
Mr, Lyell scrip slipped back slightly, to
295. 6d. Developments and prospects have
been given a good deal of space on this page
since the scrip was around par.


MORE THAN
.■ . :
m
<fU<P
■
v/*
/ i
Wi
£l2OO
has been paid in
CRICKET
BONUSES
by the proprietors of
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
back in 1901, when A. C. MacLaren brought the first English cricket team to Australia, the
proprietors of Wolfe’s Schnapps conceived the scheme of offering BONUSES to Test cricketers
who by a display of outstanding skill, helped to brighten the game for the spectators.
Tremendous success crowned this Wolfe’s Schnapps Bonus Offer, and so for over 30 years now, every
series of England v. Australia Test Matches played in Australia, has always been associated with
Wolfe’s Schnapps and the extra thrill the Cash Awards have lent to each brilliant incident of Test play.
In the coming tests, this year, Wolfe’s Schnapps offer a more generous scale of awards than ever before.
WOLFES SCHNAPPS
/?0 $Xrt2MM£
£lOO
£25
£lO
£lO
£lO
£5
£1
to any English or Australian cricketer who beats the
record score of 334 runs established by Don Bradman
at Leeds in 1930.
to any bowler who performs the “hat trick” in any
innings of the five Test Matches.
for every century compiled within 150 minutes.
to the English bowler with the best average in the
Test Matches, provided the winner plays in at least
three Test Matches and takes not less than 1 0 wickets,
to the Australian bowler with the best average in the
Test Matches, provided the winner plays in at least
three Test Matches and takes not less than 1 0 wickets.
for every hit over the fence,
for every catch.
2/-
for every boundary.
Hundreds of English and Australian
Test players have benefited by the
Wolfe’s Schnapps bonuses. The list
includes the names of such brilliant
Australian exponents of the game as
Trumper, Duff, Noble, Bardsley,
Macartney, Clem Hill, Collins,
Gregory, Mailey. To come down to
more recent times, in the 1932-33
series Bradman, McCabe, Wall, Old-
field and Richardson were prominent
names on the Wolfe’s Schnapps bonus
list. In that series of tests £219/18/-
was paid to English and Australian
players, and altogether over £l2OO has
been paid to English and Australian
players by the proprietors of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Take a IVolfes Schnapps every day for your healths sake.
W 5.92.48


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Devil’s Squadron”
An air drama revolving around the
hazardous lives of test pilots, with fine
shots of diving and stunting and some
amazingly realistic crashes.
The story is not beyond credence.
When Paul Redmond (Richard Dix) joins
the Dawson Aviation Co. as a test
pilot his superintendent friend Dana
Kirk (Lloyd Nolan) is engaged to Col.
Dawson’s daughter Martha (Karen
Morley), In tests to produce a ’plane
of tremendous speed that will land a big
W.C. Fields in “Poppy; at Sydney
Prince Edward.
army order the colonel and other pilots
go west. ‘Martha’s brother Ritchie (Wil-
liam Stelling) loses his nerve just before
a flight and commits suicide. Paul, to
save Martha’s feelings, puts the body
into a new ’plane, takes it aloft and,
after setting fire to it, “bails out,” An
inquiry’s conclusion is that he turned
yaller and left Ritchie to it when an acci-
dent occurred, and his license is sus-
pended. But it’s-Paul’s flying that lands
the army contract after all, and all ends
as it should, with a change of fiances
for Martha.
Richard Dix’s prognathous jaw is an
asset, though his articulation is still pain-
ful. Karen Morley combines capability
with charm, and Lloyd Nolan does well
as a snappy official. At Sydney Capitol,
“The Big Noise”
In this pleasant little comedy Guy
Kibbec has a role made for him: a still-
energetic but ageing president of a tex-
tile corporation deposed by a directorate
on a make-way-for-youth rampage.
Rebelling against doctor’s orders to stag-
nate in the sun, soaking up vitamins A
to Z and avoiding blood pressure, he
smokes a teamster’s twist tobacco that is
lethal at 20 yards, and, thus inspired,
buys a half share in a clothes-cleaning
establishment, with Warren Hull as
partner. When racketeers request
“protection” money the wise old boy
plays one gang against another. By the
time they are exterminated, not without
Guy collecting a slight bullet-hole, it is
discovered that his old corporation has
gone to the pack lacking his guiding
brain, and they put him back at the
helm. Daughter Alma Lloyd is there to
supply a little romance with the junior
pard.
Kibbee gives his usual smooth and
genial performance, Warren Hull is com-
petent and forceful, and Alma Lloyd is a
feasible reason why the thoughts of a
young executive should turn to lurv. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Defacing Pirate”
Dancers Charles Collins and Steffi
Duna fill most of this opus with agile
caperings, and between whiles they
croon. Setting is California in the Span-
ish days. A Boston dancing master
(Collins) is shanghaied by pirates, escapes
and fakes refuge in a Californian village
where Frank Morgan is a comic alcalde
and Luis Alberni is his chief lieutenant.
Miss Duna is the beauteous daughter of
the alcalde. She takes pity on the roman-
tic stranger, saves him from hanging,
and, after an interlude of melodrama that
involves her rescue by Indians from mar-
riage with a scoundrel, gives him her
hand and heart. The proceedings are
mostly frankly farcical, and there are
almost as many choruses and ballets as
in a musical comedy.
Screened in technicolor, many of the
scenes vivid examples of effective use of
this medium. Acting is fair, and there is
plenty of humor. At Sydney Plaza.
“Hearts Divided”
Funny mixture of historical drama,
farce and croonery. Scene is mostly
Baltimore when Thomas Jefferson was
President and the Louisiana deal was
being negotiated with Napoleon. Captain
Jerome Bonaparte, Nap.’s young brother
(Dick Powell), is sent to the U.S.A. to
arrange matters and falls in love with a
Baltimore belle, Betsy Patterson (Marion
Davies). Jerome masquerades as a
French tutor to be near his beloved;
takes her to France to marry her. But
Nap. has other plans ; interviews the girl
on her arrival, induces her to give up
Jerome and return to her home. Claude
Rains makes a nonchalant, witty Napo-
leon, E. E. Horton and Charles Ruggles
are amusing as Senators in love with
Betsy, Arthur Treacher is an English
dude similarly smitten and Henry
Stephenson is his usual paternally be-
nignant self as Betsy’s papa. Mr. Powell
croons only at discreet intervals, and the
Peter Lorre in “Secret Agent,” at
Sydney Lyceum.
well-acted affair has a happy ending no
more incredible than the rest of the yarn.
At Sydney Plaza.
“It’s Love Again”
A very slender thread to connect a
series of songandance numbers by Jessie
Matthews, The writer of a gossip
column (Robert Young) and his assis-
tant (Sonnie Hale) —they occupy a mag-
nificent flat with apartments as big as a
suburban town hall —invent a mythical
celebrity, “Mrs. Smythe-Smythe,” ex-
plorer of Darkest Africa, widow of a
maharajah. An enterprising soubrette
(Jessie Matthews), noting that the lady
never appears in public, purloins her
identity, and makes a sensation with her
dancing at a swanky restaurant. The
gossip-writers can’t bowl her out, so they
accept her and boost her, with the result
ihat her ambitions are more than realised.
With the exception that some of the head-
gear worn by Miss Matthews fosters an
unfortunate resemblance to Zasu Pitts
Shirley Temple in “Captain January
at Sydney State.
the piece is beautifully staged and
dressed, but the padding between doses
of croonery and hoofery is very pal-
pably padding. At Sydney Embassy.
“Line Engaged”
One of those painstaking and highly-
mechanical murder-mystery plots that are
turned out on both sides of the Atlantic
by the hundred every year is exploited
in this English film. Hero, a writer of
crime stories, in love with another man’s
wife, is son of a Scotland Yard detective-
inspector, His father has given him the
plot of a perfectly safe murder which
involves co-operation of a police pal.
Hero applies it to the assassination of his
beloved’s husband, goes off to shoot him,
and leaves note for dad to come along
and do his bit. But hero finds his in-
tended victim already weltering in gore
—shot by someone else —and when he
’phones papa to tell him the line is en-
gaged. The tampering with evidence by
papa puts son badly in soup, but, of
course, it all comes right in the end.
Arthur Wontner is the would-be mur-
derer, Jane Baxter the other man’s wife.
A good deal of the dialogue is rendered
unintelligible by an unnecessary and
irrelevant background of orchestral
tootling and booming. At Sydney
Embassy.
)
“Secret Agent”
This spy film, adapted from a Somer-
set Maugham story, is slickly done,
with, among its good bits, a realistic
troop-train wrecking, but if spies were
as portrayed both the British and Ger-
man secret services harbored a wonder-
ful lot of boneheads.
A novelist, picked for secret-service
work, goes to Switzerland —of course,
after his “death” is announced —to
ferret out and “fix” a German spy
bound for Asia. He is allotted a
“wife” (Madeleine Carroll) and a
killer (Peter Lorre), but his bungling
results in the murder of an innocent man.
His “wife” displays her genius for
espionage by futilely wringing her hands
and trying to decide whether she’ll have
the British or the German spy for a lover.
The German is eventually snuffed out,
but not through the exertions of the Eng-
lish spy team.
The most impressive figure in the cast
is Peter Lorre. As the “hairless Mexi-
can” (that he is neither hairless nor
Mexican can’t be helped) he is quietly,
coldbloodedly ferocious —a sinister
figure. He has lethal eyes. John Gielgud
equips the British spy with less than the
small amount of commonsense Maugham
allowed him, and Madeleine Carroll looks
nice, which is her only important task.
Robert Young makes the most of a role
which doesn’t offer many opportunities,
and Percy Marmont gives a glimpse of
ability in his all-too-brief appearance.
The affair is billed as a “thrill-suc-
cessor” to “The 39 Steps,” but the
Buchan film leaves it standing. At Syd-
Sydney Lyceum and Melb. Athenaeum.
‘‘The Hope of His Side”
In this rather anaemic Yorkshire
comedy, Sydney Howard is a blacksmith,
and a mighty ass is he. Even when his
waspish wife refuses to give him his tea
and forces him to listen to her wailings
on a trombone, he takes it meekly on the
chin. Then one day his own reflection
in a mirror chides him ; the sap rises in
that mighty man and he kicks over the
domestic bellows, guzzles a whole pint
of beer and, defying his burden’s objur-
gations and threats, joins the local foot-
ball team, the coach having discovered
possibilities in those sinewy hands. He
waddles over the field like a spavined
Clydesdale, but a spark of genius bursts
into flame in the final five minutes of a
big game, and even his wife acclaims the
hero.
The humor is elephantine, and, after
an hour of Yorkshire accent which makes
a Bowery tough sound like a Mayfair
pansy, the welkin—to say nothing of the
eardrum —is distinctly bent. Mabel Con-
standuros is the wife, and Frank Pettin-
gell assists in cluttering up the atmosphere
with lingual cacophony. At Sydney
Lyceum,
“Charlie Chan at the Race Track”
Opens at the Melbourne Cup meeting,
where the men wear attire that went out
Sydney Howard in “The Hope of His
Side” at Sydney Lyceum.
of fashion with the Seventh Edward,
and xuns across the Pacific (of course,
in .a Matson liner) via Honolulu, where
Charlie Chan (Warner Oland) joins the
ship, to ’Frisco, where there is a race-
course (beg pardon, track ) with an in-
visible-ray timing appliance at every
quarter-mile post and an automatic
movie camera to record the finish. A
racehorse owner is murdered, horses'
identities are switched, mysterious threat-
ening letters are received by all the prin-
cipal characters and finally (can Holly-
wood have taken a tip from “Thorough-
bred”?) the favorite is shot, but manages
to get its nose past the winning post
before collapsing. Keye Luke, the en-
gaging young Chinese who plays Charlie's
eldest son, is well to the fore, and Alan
Dinehart is in the cast. Helen Wood
is the goil. Action is brisk. One of the
best of the Chan series. At Sydney State.


A NEAT, RELIABLE PUMP
'■m
n_ '
Write for our free
illustrated Catalogues.
Sent Post Free
ANYWHERE.
“TRITON”
VERTICAL SINGLE-ACTING
PLUNGER PUMP
If a moderate supply of water is required
the “Triton” is ideal. Compactly built, it
stands only I9j inches high.
The “Triton” is practically noiseless in opera-
tion, and the smooth running reduces wear and
increases the life of the pump.
At the normal speed of 300 r.p.m. the capa-
city is 6 gallons per minute.
Fitted for lin. suction and delivery pipes
Chain or V-belt drive from motor may be
fitted. All parts easily accessible without dis-
connecting piping.
Our wide range of pumps of all types and
sizes enables us to supply the pump most suited
to your requirements.
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street
546 Collins Street
Adelaide.
Sydney
■ • ■ . . Melbourne
Perth.
“Where the markets of the world
have their beginnings . .
m
mm
MA
mx* : ;
mm
’I)#:
cP
w
V,
V 2
%
Spread over the State’s
far-flung areas you will
find them, in increasing
number . . . the farms and
holdings that are neither
very large nor very small
. . . the properties of mod-
erate size which form the
backbone of the agri-
cultural and pastoral
structure of New South
Wales.
Where once only sheep
or cattle reigned supreme
... or where the waving
wheat stretched to the
horizon . . . now you will
find the producer who—
literally and figuratively—
makes two blades grow
where one grew before .. .
who finds that with herd
and flock improvement,
fodder conservation, pas-
ture improvement, and
scientific management, the
property of moderate size
is productive and profit-
able.
The Rural Bank has
played an important part
in the successful develop-
ment of moderate sized
farms. To them, equally
with all other primary pro-
ducers and home-builders,
the Bank offers a useful
service, and in turn wel-
comes public support. All
Branches, situated in repre-
sentative centres through-
out the State, accept
interest-bearing fixed
deposits and cheque ac-
counts from all sections
of the community.
Commissioners: C<
R. McKERIHAN, President. H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
“Two’s Company”
This film at Melb. Athenaeum pro-
vides acute comedy between two elderly
large-girthed persons, Madison, an
American (Henry Holman), and the Earl
of Warke (Morton Selton), also brittle
wisecracks from cigar-chewing Ned
Sparks and two complete sets of accents
from Gordon Harker as Muggridge, a
manservant who passes for a peer.
Action commences in England and
finishes in America, and all leading char-
acters own dogs. The combustible Earl
while chasing butterflies catches in his
net the fat face and three chins of his
rich American tenant, who is fishing
complete with waders and an optimistic-
looking basket. Follow a thunder-and-
lightning fracas, a court case for assault,
and the same evening a mellowing over
a decanter of old wine, whereafter the
pair go hunting in the smokeroom, shoot-
ing stags’ heads and butterfly-cases with
duck-guns and revolvers. Mary Brian
is the American's daughter who with
one look completely bowls over the
Earl’s susceptible son.
Some First Nights
Planquette's “Paul Jones” has been ex-
humed after a long rest to walk the deck
of His Majesty’s, Melbourne. The name
role was originally written for a woman,
although men, among them Bernard
Manning, have appeared in the part. The
old tradition is followed by giving Evelyn
Hall the job, but she is never at ease.
Helen Langton is Yvonne (one of Nellie
Stewart s roles), and Eileen Kelly makes
a lively Chopinette, whose great moment
comes when she sings “He Looked at My
Sabots.” Ivan Menzies enters only for
the last act as a farcical Don Troca-
dero. Richard Watson makes Bicoquet
an outstanding figure. Much of the
comedy depends on Cliff Cowley and
Tommy Jay, as the old smuggler Bouilla-
baisse and the “insect” Petit Pierre, but
lo get their laughs they take liberties with
the script, introducing gangsters, the
Lyons family, slum clearance and (saved
up for the fourth encore) the story of a
tattooed wife. The music is tuneful, and
the costumes picturesque. In the chateau
of Kerbignac there is a dance to minuet
music which would have been more en-
joyable without can-can trimmings.
•j*
On Saturday night at Melbourne Town
Hall, when Sydney conductor Dr. Bain-
ton made his second appearance with the
city’s orchestra, applause after the
Sibelius Symphony in E Flat Major, Op.
82, was almost perfunctory. It was the
Hist performance of the symphony in
Australia, and no doubt the idiom was
strange and the juxtaposition of simple
melodies and elaborate patches of rich
color confused the audience, which woke
up to Dorothy Helmrich’s singing of a
lovely air of Purcell and the “Traume” of
Wagner, with “Vox che sapete” repeated
as an encore. The “Fetes” nocturne of
Debussy filled the hall with the sound of
running water, and the curious finale,
only one remove from dead silence, made
it appear as if the gesticulating conductor
were sparring with a non-existent an-
tagonist. This spectacle enchanted the
audience and it demanded a repetition.
There was enthusiasm for the masterly
playing of Vaughan Williams’s “Fantasia
on a Theme by Thomas Tallis” for
double stringed orchestra, and the ova-
tion accorded the “Mastersingers” over-
ture, which concluded the proceedings,
was like a belated attempt to amend for
the cold reception of Sibelius.
4* 4* 4* +
“Calling All Stars,” Jim Gerald’s show
at Sydney Tiv., blends humorous sketches
and specialty turns, with a little
snappy ballet work on the side.
One of the funniest acts is a burlesque
ballet by Alexander Santos and co.
A male “ballerina” who wears con-
ventional evening-dress coat and vest and
an abbreviated ballet skirt, giving him
an ostrich-like appearance, and whose
joints creak as he gets into weird posi-
tions, brings down the house. The Four
Harmoniques do clever things with their
vocal cords, and the Erikson Bros., a
brace of beautifully-proportioned ath-
letes, make a strong-man turn look easy.
The Armour Boys, in a boxing and danc-
ing act, are light of foot and heavy of
hand. Dixie and Mitzi do some neat
acrobatic dancing, and the Alexander trio
throws itself about with verve and nerve.
A real breath-taker is a ladder-and-perch
balancing act by the Karolis. Margaret
Grimshaw sings sweetly.
* -h ■>!■=
Seventy competent musicians all play-
ing for the love of it and an audience
largely composed of musicians listening
for the same reason was the unusual spec-
tacle presented by the first performance
of the New Metropolitan Symphony
Orchestra, which dropped out of the
blue, so to speak, on to the platform
of the Central Hall, Melbourne, last
week. C. J. Lauer, the conductor, is
better known as a director of choral
music, but he steered his organisation
through a long and difficult programme
which included a Wagner introduction, a
Beethoven overture, the Mendelssohn
Concerto in E Minor for violin and
orchestra, Beethoven’s First Symphony
and some of Brahms’s Hungarian
dances. The final hurdle he set his
orchestrions at was the “Prince Igor”
overture of Borodin, said to be techni-
cally incapable of anything but a com-
promise interpretation: there were some
staggers, but it was a remarkably good
performance. The Beethoven symphony
was extremely well-managed, especially
in the powerful finale; and there was a
clever bit of rescue work on the part of
the conductor when soloist Cecil Parkes
let his mind wander a trifle in a ticklish
movement of the concerto. To this feast
of music was added some delightful sing-
ing by Hinemoa Rosieur, the Maoriland
girl with a voice of exceptional range and
sweetness who holds the first Melba
scholarship of the Albert-street Con.
•b •!••!•*}♦
“Caesar’s Friend,” a three-acter by
Tasmanian Campbell Dixon and Dermot
Morrah, presented at the Garrick, Mel-
bourne, mixes the costumes and manners
of a.d. 33 with modern dialogue occa-
sionally sprinkled with slang. Based on
the Gospel story, it provides scope for
good acting. Leading parts were ade-
quately filled by Lance Nicholls as
Judas, John Ormiston Reid as Pilate, Wil-
liam Clarkson as Caiaphas and Eunice
Cooper as Mary Magdalen. The play
was produced for the Un-Named Players
by Maie Hoban. Noel Nickson con-
ducted the orchestra.
Current Artbursts
J. Muir Auld, whose style grows mel-
lower as his years ripen, shows 31 can-
vases at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney
—nearly all landscapes, though a figure
study, “Lamplight,” and an excellent
self-portrait give a dash of variety. Auld
is one of the most sincere and sensitive
of Australian impressionists. His latest
work, though by no means ultra-broad in
treatment, seems to be done almost en-
tirely with palette knife rather than
brush, and the method often enhances
the effect. Of the many rural glimpses
this commentator liked best “Saplings,
Afternoon Light,” “Summer Evening”
(this breathes the spirit as well as some-
thing of the manner of Corot) and “Even-
ing Effect.” In some of the other land-
scapes the pleasant mosaic of color has
been built up in such a way that the
effect is more decorative than realistic,
but every picture bears the imprint of
devotion to a high ideal.
* * * *
A private collection of pictures now on
view for sale in the Macleod Gallery
seems to have been exceptionally well
selected, and is illustrative of many of
the best phases of Australian art. In oils
Robert Johnson, Percy Lindsay, Hanke
and Gruner are represented by some
of their most congenial work ; in water-
colors marine pieces by G. K. Towns-
hend in his best mood and some of Nor-
man Lindsay’s most gorgeous color com-
positions strike the eye. Etchings by
Lionel Lindsay and some of' the best
black-and-white work of Low, Phil May,
“Hop,” Norman Lindsay, B. E. Minns
and Unk White round out an array that
has no weak spots.
-V 4*
One of Victoria’s best-known women
painters, Aileen Dent, has an exhibi-
tion in the National Trustees’ board-
room, Queen-street, Melbourne. Most
of the paintings are oils, and include
flower pieces, landscapes and portraits.
“Petunias” is executed with a sympathetic
understanding of textures. “From Dun-
troon,” in a Canberra group, is a charm-
ing glimpse of field and river. There are
also some paintings of Sydney and of the
hills and gum-trees of the Riverina. A
portrait of Colonel Cosgrave in khaki
and “Portrait of a Lady” are well-
executed, but Herbert Gepp, well-posed,
is a bit flattered.


WE OFFER
WHAT
People
Desire
Homely com
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni- ,
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney,
-•m
WENTWORTH fiotel
BRIDGE PARK
SYDNEY
mviaai
carry a
small tin in
pocket or
purse
HUDSON'S
"EUMENTHOL' ■«.
JUJUBES^
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
m
IS
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The National Council of Women
made itself very smart to receive Lady
Anderson. With the societies affiliated
to the N.C.W., there were 500 women
in all ready to clap white-gloved hands
as a chorus to president Mrs. Muscio's
welcome. The party was in David Jones’s
ballroom, and after Lady Anderson had
been welcomed by N.C.W. importants
she sat at a long table that bloomed like
a spring garden and listened to a women's
choir singing old English songs and to
the rich tones of Dagmar Thompson’s
violin. Then a move was made to the
platform for speeches and presentations.
Over 300 women took part in the long
march past, representing societies affili-
ated with the N.C.W.
Lady Anderson's black velvet dress
had a lace yoke and was accompanied
by two strings of pearls. Mrs. Muscio
made her speeches in a crepe frock of
pale pink that had a high neckline. Mrs.
Commissioner McKenzie was outstand-
ing in her Army uniform ; in contrast
were the lilac laces of the Chief Justice's
lady. Mrs. Goodisson was in black and
white. Dr. Grace Boelke wore a forest-
green cloak over brocades. Mrs. Wilfrid
Fairfax was there ; so were Miss K. Egan
and Ruby Board and Mrs. F. J. Davy,
brightness in rose taffeta. Not unnoted
went the sapphire chiffons of Dr. Con-
stance D’Arcy, Margaret Windeyer’s
cinnamon crepes, the flowing blue cape
of Annie Rienits, the amethystine hues
of Mrs. Edmond Gates’s frock and cape
and the topaz pink worn by Mrs. A. G,
Thomas.
Last week was Kindergarten Week,
and one of the prettiest sights was the
lorries laden with young citizens from the
Free Kindergartens. The lorries, drawn
by great draught horses, had their sides
netted in, and through the netting were
threaded gay paper streamers, so that in
passing they suggested brightly-hued
cages filled with fluttering doves.
Everybody turned up to the opening
of Ye Olde English Faire, and by the
lime some hundreds had traversed it the
village green looked as if the village
fathers designed it after a session with
the darts and beer of old England. There
was a steady gold rush between Ye Olde
Farme and Ye Beautie Shoppe, from
antiques to the pedlars’ stall, from Ye
Olde Apple Tree* to the wishing well.
Every stall was a brick and timbered
cottage, jutting eaves, chimneys and roses
round the door. On the stage was a
maypole around which children, five
years old or younger, in very long and
buoyant white organdie, circled like a
flight of butterflies. There was a minuet;
there were performing dogs. The helpers
might have been beauties of Bath and
Brighton in their heyday; they might
have stepped from Jane Austen’s pages,
and, of course, Sweet Nell of Old Drury
brought Charles 11. back to mind.
Lady Gowrie opened the Faire, which
was the climax of Kindergarten Week.
Over her frock of black-and-white silk
she wore a black silk coat, collared and
cuffed in fur. Her small black hat was
clipped in front with a, diamond brooch.
Near her on the platform were the
George Julius lady and Mrs. J. L. Rulh-
ven. The former wore an old-world
frock of ivory brocade with coy green
velvet bows down the front. An emerald-
green poke bonnet, lined with white lace,
and white lace mittens .were other items
that made her different from her 1936
self. The same sort of costume was
worn by Mrs. Rulhven, in old-rose bro-
cades, and added a touch of romance to
a stage where Henry Braddon, Deputy-
Mayor Parkes and Archbishop Mowll
sat tailored as usual.
Mayoress Parkes caped her black-and-
white silk with fitch. Between the black-
and-white ensembles of Mrs. Mowll and
Mrs. Bruxner shone the flower-patterned
tunic frock of Mrs. Norman Macleod. It
was as bright as the spring day. Her
small white hat had a pom-pom like a
saucy powder-puff on its brim. Dark-
eyed Mrs, Lorenz, from Camden, was
a pretty helper. Her pale-blue taffeta
frock was finished with a lace fichu. Her
scuttle bonnet was black satin and flower
entwined. Mrs. Molesworth at the
pedlars’ stall was Victorian in black and
white. The McKelvey lady stuck to her
own slim outline, dressed in a black
frock so smart that it looked simple.
Poised on her right shoulder was a
swallow on outstretched diamond wings.
Her large hat was of black baku, its
brim sloped over the right eye. Another
smart helper in black was Mrs. Ernest
Lashmar. Her black suit opened over a
jabot of fine white Limerick lace. She
was off to a small coffee and sherry party
later with Marie Bremner. J. L. Ruthven
himself was there, Mrs. Robert Dixson
looked after Ye Olde Farme. The
Admiral and Mrs. Feakes sat in the
flower-twined tearooms, eating hot scones
and cream and jam with crowds of
other shoppers.
To-morrow, the 27th, Elizabeth Bay
House will be the setting for the smart
party of the week. This is a Fashion
Tea, for which the old home is nearly
booked out. Down the shallow stairway
with its gracefully turned handrail will
step mannequins arrayed in fashion’s
latest. Babe Cobcroft, the girl in this
Raymond Sawyer photograph, is arrang-
ing the parade, and taking part will be
equally smart wearers of clothes: Mrs.
Allan MacGregor, Mrs. Colin Galbraith,
Mrs. Graham Pratten, Enid Hull and
Noppy Wilkinson. With Mrs. Colin Gal-
braith as organiser, and John McKelvey’s
lady as president, the funds of the Blind
Institute should be greatly heartened.
Spring flowers from the garden of Miss
S. F. Warby, three cookery books and
the badge of the association were Lady
Anderson’s collection at the morning-tea
given in her honor by the executive of
the C.W.A. David Jones’s was warm
with spring, and there was a representa-
tive roll-up of Country Women, many
of them acknowledging the bright season
by the hats they wore. The Governor’s
lady was very complimentary on the
work of the association, which goes about
its affairs irrespective of creed or politics.
Mrs. Matt Sawyer (State president) and
Mrs. Hugh Munro (foundation president)
spoke of C.W.A. work and growth. As
always when the tale is told, this Letter,
with Lady Anderson, salutes the move-
ment. Rosemary de Sausmarez accom-
panied the vice-reine.
Earl Beauchamp has suffered two
family bereavements since he said fare-
well to Sydney early this year. A few
weeks ago his wife died suddenly; the
other day his second and very dear son,
Hugh Patrick Lygon, on a motor tour in
Northern Bavaria, collapsed while ask-
ing a direction, and was taken to a hos-
pital in Rothenberg. His father was sum-
moned from Venice. Sunstroke is be-
lieved to have caused the collapse. The
Honorable Hugh was known to Sydney.
He was slim and dark, and very fond
of dogs. He took back to England two
little Australian silkies. While in Sydney
he shared his father’s enthusiasm for
surfing.
Australia is the poorer for the passing
of a poet. Mrs. J. W. Kettlewell, who
died last week at Woolwich, is known
to Australian literature as Agnes L.
Storrie, writer of much verse before jour-
nalism claimed her time and pen. Her
most quoted poem is “Twenty Gallons
of Sleep.” One Australian institution
will always be a memorial to her: Mrs.
Kettlewell was one of the founders of
Wattle Day.
Here is pianist Mildred Hill, who, with
her dark eyes and raven black hair, looks
like a senorita from Spain rather than a
girl from Newcastle. Mildred’s music
has a rich and flowing quality which
chimes with friend Nora Williamson’s
violin playing. The two will give a re-
cital on Friday at the Con. The pro-
gramme is one of French music. Ray-
mond Sawyer photograph.
Some fine gems were worn at the
N.C.W. reception to Lady Anderson,
among them a moonstone-and-pearl
brooch set in the most delicate of silver-
filigree. The centre moonstones gain
deeper blue from being ringed with
sapphires. This was flashed by Grace
Scobie. Together with an expensively
slim gold wristlet watch, it was pre-
sented to her by fellow-workers in the
Department of Labor and Industry when
Grace said farewell to all that. The tea-
drinking that accompanied the presenta-
tion was a record for size—no fewer than
107 departmental were present.
Maoriland’s veteran of dramatic art
and elocution, J. F. Montague, arrived
by the Wanganella last Friday, ready to
face his Eisteddfod duties. Mrs. Stanley
Hempton, president of the Kia-Ora Club,
was on the wharf to meet him and his
fellow-inquisitor, Temple White. Fol-
lowed a lunch by the Kia-Ora Club at
the Green Door. Here new president
Eric Baume (an Aucklander) presided.
The Wolves, the Leopards and the
Tiger Cubs rolled out their jungle cries
and sang their campfire songs with such
spirit that Hordern Brothers’ ballroom
seemed to stretch into those shadowy,
awesome regions spoken of by the novel-
ist as “never before trodden by the foot
of man.” The Scout Ball was its usual
success. Besides the campfire scene in
the middle of the room a model camp-
fire surmounted by the fleur-de-lis
glowed on the official table, where Chief
Scout Colonel Maughan presided. The
T. Astley couple (he is president of the
Boy Scouts’ Club) and the H. S. Stod-
darts were in the official group. Mrs.
Astley’s frock was of black velvet; her
coat had silver revers. Mrs. Stoddart
wore palely pink crepes; so did Mrs.
W. C. Adams, whose frock was made
with a short cape lined with lobelia blue.
The organiser was Anne Brien.
Organiser for Music Week Mrs. Fer-
rari Passmore is feeling pleased: the
Governor and Lady Anderson have con-
sented to be patrons. Philip Street and
his wife will also patronise the muse.
The glittering galaxy of the week will be
the three concerts conducted by Dr. Mal-
colm Sargent. The Conservatorium and
the Savoy will also resound to the viol
and harp and sister instruments. A
Sunday evening concert will feature
scenes from opera. Lillian Frost will
give daily organ recitals, and Clement
Hosking will lead his Folk Song Choir
at two recitals. Those who like then
music to the accompaniment of dancing
are to be catered for with a ball in the
Blaxland Galleries.
The Queen Victoria, one of Sydney ■>
oldest music clubs, had the distinction
of being the lirst to welcome Cady
Anderson. This club, which has so long
featured keys and bars, has still no door-
way of its own, so the vice-regal lady
was received at the Australia. The recep-
tion was outsize in numbers, was frag-
rantly offset with flowers, and brought
a rally of Queen Victorians, stream-
lined and smart in the 1936 way. The
singing of Ruth Pierce-Jones won general
approval, and Lady Anderson sent up a
special request for Mozart’s “Alleluia.
Ihe Governor’s lady was black as to
coat, frock and small hat, the hat bright-
ened with a white flower. Mrs. Percy
White, the club’s president, gave the
guest of honor a spray of daphne and a
basket brimming with the gold of spring.
Lady Anderson both sings and plays, so
her arrival should stimulate the work of
the city’s music groups.
Say “opera,” and Sydney comes run-
ning. Last Saturday afternoon Hilda
Mulligan, of the Conservatorium Opera
School, had an audience of over 600
at her recital of scenes from opera in
the ballroom of the Australia. The
operas were “Irene” (in which Queens-
lander Gladi Carri won a success),
“Orpheus” and “Faust.” The music
party, which had been organised by
Josephine Marks and Mrs. E. W. Tolman,
later resolved into a vast tea-drinking.
Hilda Mulligan, who had supplied the
synopsis of each work and had been
Marguerite, in a dove-grey cap and frock,
found her table piled high with posies
and great baskets of flowers, among them
a positively millionaire-size posy of lily-
of-the-valley. A cluster of the same
bloom was carried by Charlotte Mills,
the afternoon’s accompanist. She is the
pianist for the Con. opera classes. Miss
Marks wore trailing black craquelle and
a brimless black hat with three white
daisies on its crown. Mrs. Tolman’s suit
was mist blue in tone.
Mrs. Percy Bates, who conducted her
choir of Euterpeans at the N.C.W. recep-
tion to Lady Anderson, has studied piano,
violin and singing with the best teachers
in Australia and in Europe, has toured
with the Savoy and the Bispham opera
companies, and has acted as assistant
conductor for such productions as “The
Vicar of Wakefield” and “Tom Jones."
When she conducts it is evident that her
aim is perfect balance and delicate shad-
ing rather than overwhelming tone. On
Thursday her Euterpeans did indeed
delight. Mrs. Bates is leading her
choirs at the City of Sydney Eisteddfod.
Australia has a new dramatist. The
wife of artist Peter Bousfield has written
a comedy, “Companionate Divorce.” It
will be presented at the Savoy on Friday
night, August 28.
Aileen Alpen, the Sydneyite who has
made her home at Cracow in Poland,
goes back by way of Maoriland, Panama
and England. Aileen is a ball of
energy. In her six weeks she has
met many relations (she is a cousin of
Frank Fox) : been to Canberra and inter-
viewed Ministers about fruit trade be-
tween Australia and Poland. She had a
civic reception at Wagga, besides a round
of cocktail parties and lunches.
Tempe Piggott, a Queenslander who
has been in Hollywood for some years,
and has had a long list of screen parts,
is back in her native land. At present
she is staying at Darling Point. The other-
day radio artist Eileen Robinson, who
worked with Tempe in Hollywood and
before that at Sydney’s first little theatre,
repatriated her childhood friend with an
outsize in tea parties.


Mothersills
SEASICK REM COY
Guarantees A Perfect
Voyage
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week's issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor. 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
FELICE (OR PHYLLIS) MABEL JUST, last
heard of at Maroubra about June, 1932 (now
believed to be married), or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, is requested to communicate
immediately with her brother, Leslie Just, c/o
Macnish, Macrossan and Dowling, Solicitors,
Brisbane. Father is dead and his estate is
being administered.
Personal and Missing Frirnds.
TO JAMES DENNISTON (OR DENISON)
LOCHORE FATHER OF VIOLET MAY
LOCHORE WHO DIED INTESTATE IN
NEW ZEALAND ON THE 2ND JULY
1936 AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIM-
ING BY THROUGH OR UNDER HIM;
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
Ist day of November 1936 your claims to
share in the estate of the abovenamed Violet
May Lochore failing which Such estate will be
distributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 15th day of
August, 1936.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO ELIZABETH HOGSFLESH AND JOHN
CHARLES HOGSFLESH THE
YOUNGER WIFE AND SON OF JOHN
CHARLES HOGSFLESH WHO DIED
INTESTATE AT DUNWICH IN
QUEENSLAND AUSTRALIA ON THE
30TH NOVEMBER 1918 TO THEIR
CHILDREN AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY THROUGH OR UNDER
THEM OR ANY OF THEM;
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you. are
hereby called upon to send to me on or before
the Ist November 1936 your claims to share in
the estate of the abovenamed John Charles
Hogsflesh failing which such estate will be dis-
tributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 15th day of
August, 1936.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
<%><> &
uvope
THE SMART WORLD SAILS
&
mpv&ss of
THERE’S nothing to com-
pare with the luxury
provided by “ Empress of
Britain ” on the sheltered
St. Lawrence route to Europe.
Three whole decks for sports
. . . lounging . . . sunning.
Full size tennis court . . .
Olympic pool . . . ball room
.. . theatre . . . every apart-
ment. with outside light and
air. And then there’s Canadian
Pacific personal service and
cuisine. No wonder the smart
world travels “ Empress of
Britain ” to Europe.
n n n
Is
Literature and all details from
Any Tourist Booking Agency or
8.6.7
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Fashion shows are woman’s preroga-
tive, but a few lone men found their
way up to Myer’s sessions last week.
Doubtless their wives had reasons for
thrusting spring’s newest and sauciest
fashions under their noses. One surprise
was E. A. Callanan, who doesn’t look a
scrap like an easy mixer for an after-
noon-tea party or a women’s dress show
(though his charming wife always appears
to have walked straight out of the latter).
Mr. Callanan and Norman Myer shared
a table near the mike and the path of
the models, and were joined half-way
through the programme by Mrs. Myer.
A flattering dodge for the tall and thin
or for large-hipped figures is the widen-
ing of the shoulders which is a feature
of nearly every new suit and frock.
Color mixtures are exhilarating. Fuchsia
and deep burgundy are twisted into a
double sash on a flowered evening frock ;
the same fuchsia, often enervating on
black, adds a lyrical touch to navy blue.
The net ensemble carries a password
from luncheon-time onwards, and the
übiquitous tunic walks out for mornings,
afternoons and after dark. One tunic in
tartan taffeta went with a navy skirt
and a chamois-yellow coat made from
stitched-together rows of pique ribbon.
Day suits of coarse linen tweed or grey
flannel were a feature of the parade.
Nearly all skirts were plain and short
enough to look like walking; blouses
were in dashingly contrasting colors, and
bracelets, buttons and belts, often worn
under short swinging jackets, were tre-
mendous fun.
New capes have reversible linings and
can be turned inside out for a shower
of rain or a change of scenery, and
sashes can be draped into scarves. At
Cann’s show Bettine Fisken, in a blue
moire evening gown, wore her sash of
coral-rust tulle draped over her shoulders
one moment and the next let its ends
fall into a train. One of Miss Fisken’s
suits was of navy blue linen patterned
with diminutive white pigs. Notwith-
standing that trains are held to be out
of favor a few of them are slinking after
evening gowns in a most persistent
manner. One must be careful about the
frilled petticoat; just a rustle is suffi-
cient, just a fleeting glimpse of the giddy
gay ’nineties —an obvious petticoat de-
feats its own object. Mrs. Leslie Ben-
jamin’s model at the same show was of
premier-green taffeta, its single frill
visible just when necessary, under the
hem of a saddle-fan crepe frock.
As was to be expected, it was youth’s
night at the Embassy when this year’s
P.L.C. debs, gave a dance. At only one
table feminine coiffures were touched
with grey and masculine pates showed
sparse patches. Of the 15 buds, three
who live in the country were absent, but
12 made an all-white guard of honor
topping the stairs for the Old Collegians’
president, Doris Moore, who came es-
corted by her brother. She received a
bouquet on arrival, and before supper
had a pleasant surprise in the form of a
crystal jewel case, a gift from the even-
ing’s young hostesses. Coralie Gardiner,
in brown taffeta, and Burneice Swaine,
in pecan-beige lace, wore committee
posies of daphne. Erica Gardiner, in
fan-pleated bud-green chiffon, was in
the same party as the George Morleys. A
few months ago she was Mrs. Morley’s
bridesmaid. Topsy Murfett wore a
jewelled necklet with her lilac frock,
purple flowers added a vital touch to
Jess Gilbert’s banana satin gown and a
handful of spring blooms placed on the
corsage was the dominant note of Mrs.
W. Jaboor’s flame garment. Mrs. Gilbert
Crawford removed a squirrel wrap to
disclose her choice of Limoges-blue
crepe. Lorna Battley wore blue and a
posy tucked into her waist, and Mrs. Bill
McKenzie clipped two little bows to her
hair, echoes of her turquoise-blue satin
gown.
Here is Maisie Curtis, experienced
ticket secretary of many a social welfare
levy; with the help of Mrs. E. M. Corn-
foot, she will keep track of tickets for
the three-night season of “Mary Rose”
in aid of the Brotherhood of St. Laur-
ence’s slum clearance scheme. Miss
Curtis has also been made treasurer of
the auxiliaries working for the Brother-
hood, which runs hostels for single un-
employed, and whose activities have re-
cently been extended to families. At
Carrum Downs there is a settlement of
small houses, each in its own block of
land, to which married men with their
wives and children have been trans-
planted from slum areas. Portrait from
Eve Ray’s camera.
The younger intelligentsia were in skit-
tish mood when the Youth Movement of
the League of Nations Union went danc-
ing at the Embassy. Jessie Brookes
organised a Cinderella number wherein
every girl left a slipper in the middle of
the dance floor; one lad threw a spanner
into the usual handsome-prince machin-
ery by grabbing not one shoe but four.
Another surprise item was a Monte Carlo
dance with ornamentations. The rules,
invented by Miss Brookes and censored
by Ruth Littleton, had such clauses as
“stand out those who have drunk anything
but tea or coffee; stand out people with
safety-pins, people in love and men with
hidden cummerbunds.” The last test for
two remaining pairs was to recite in cor-
rect order the seven names of Edward
VIII.
June Phillipson, who had a solo tap
dance up her sleeve, wore capucine satin
with trailing shoulder draperies. Gold-
embroidered spots and white pique lapels
were fillips of interest to Wendy Tude-
hope’s ink-blue gown, and a frilled bib
collar was a feature of Peggy Broad-
head’s Provenfe-blue taffeta. Peggy
Sawrey wore coral-rust velvet, and
daphne in her hair. Gwyn Dawborn
received felicitations on being up and
about after saying farewell to her appen-
dix. Molly Terry shared secretarial re-
sponsibilities with Miss Littleton, and
Dick Brown was heard to be in good
form through the mike. Chum Vial and
Clive Sewell were there, and another
bright lad who kept the party bubbling
was Norman Atkins.
Fares and freight from the “Show
Boat” land cruise will be divided by the St.
Kilda auxiliaries among the Eye and
Ear, Children’s and Alfred hospitals and
the St. Kilda and Balaclava Free Kinder-
garten. Lady Huntingfield launched the
vessel on its two days’ voyage, which
turned out, as she predicted, pleasure for
passengers and profits for promoters.
Escorted by Mrs. Archie Michaelis, the
vice-regal lady inspected barber’s shop
and galley and took home parcels con-
taining coat-hangers, jams, jellies, Turk-
ish delight and cake. She and Col. Tom
White both had a stroke of fortune in
their lucky envelopes, which, for a
modest shilling, provided each of them
with silk stockings.
The passenger list on the first after-
noon would have done credit to the
Queen Mary, for 1000 people played
bridge on B deck. A nautical drop-cur-
tain provided synthetic ozone up for’ard,
lifebuoys swung about overhead and ven-
tilators—real ones, foraged from a ship-
breaker’s scrapheap at Williamstown —
reared their high brass heads on each
side of the bandstand. That evening
there was a dance, and a buffet supper
was served below. On the second day,
from sharp end to propellers, the place
was overrun by a young folks’ spree,
and in the evening there was tourist-class
dancing at 3d. per twirl.
At the first dance Mrs. Oswald Ben-
jamin, in spite of the rank of mate, re-
ceived a very feminine presentation posy
of hyacinths and rosebuds. The evening
was so cold that the floor was crowded
with people trying to thaw their joints,
and a popular rendezvous for’ard was the
bar, where George Hallenstein sold
tickets as fast as he could tear them out
of his booklets. Among other names
on the passenger list were those of the
No. 1 Crown Prosecutor and Mrs. Cliff
Book, Mr. and Mrs. Harold Kerr (her
evening cruise gown was bronze mate-
lasse traced with amber filigrees), the
Sladen Gibsons, the tall Don Swansons
(Mrs. Swanson’s protection against sea
breezes was a little cigar-brown coat),
Lizette Creber in a sophisticated garment
of silver lame with silver leaves in her
hair; Grace Page, who belonged to a
whirl of pink-and-lilac chiffon cape;
Marjorie Bernhart Smith, all in white ;
Mrs. R. Lundqvist, in black lace, and a
bright lad of many land-and-sea parties,
Gif Ward.
Mrs. Furze-Morrish, pictured here by
Broothorn, has had three things on her
mind recently: she was on the dance
committee of the “Show Boat” cruise at
Earl’s Court, is vice-president of the
social auxiliary of the Boroondara
Kindergarten and is a member of the
chorus of “Joanna,” the musical play
by Mrs, Harold Clapp and Alaric
Howitt, to be produced next month. Mrs.
Furze-Morrish and her elder sister, Mrs.
Deric Pearse, are the daughters of Mrs,
D. S. Rolls.
Something different in the tea-party
line was the Victoria League’s “sketch
afternoon.” Guests, by common consent,
arrived earlier than usual, and by three
o’clock the rooms were crowded and the
walls ornamented with landscapes in pen,
pencil, linos, and water-colors. Not
everybody brought sketches done by
themselves, but the president. Miss M.
Chomley, produced several interesting
pieces of her handiwork, reminders of
holidays in the French Riviera. Mrs Walter
Cobham’s sketches were also her own —
glimpses of Rye, near Winchelsea (Eng.).
Several charming woodcuts and linos,
bore Edith Alsop’s signature, and Miss
A. Currie’s talents were displayed in care-
ful little pictures. After tea music was
provided by Helen Speeding and Margery
Davidson.
Two hundred parcels, most of which
contained useful things like pairs of
sheets, towels and pillow-slips, were left
behind at 26 Lansell-road when Mrs.
F. J. Thomas put her home at the dis-
posal of a committee working for the
D.N.A.’s After Care Home. Short
speeches of thanks to Mrs. Thomas were
offered over afternoon-tea by Mrs. G. G.
Henderson and Mrs. Richard Williams,
and Mrs. Furze-Morrish performed her
maiden speech by reminding everybody
of the Boroondara Free Kindergarten
bridge party, to happen on the same site
that evening.
Fast on the heels of the linen-tea party
came bridge tables in two large recep-
tion-rooms ; poker people pursued their
luck in corners and a roulette-wheel re-
volved in the billiard-room. Air-Commo-
dore Nicholl brought his movie projector
and ran a picture-show, silver coin collec-
tion, in the smokeroom. While the Secre-
tary of Defence tried his luck at pontoon
Mrs. Shepherd, wearing a green chintz
apron, worked hard to assuage the thirst
of continuously dry throats. S. E. Brun-
ning was her capable assistant, and his
wife, who wore water-lilies pinned to her
black velvet gown, sold tickets necessary
for procuring libations.
Gwen Thomas, in a black velvet
peasant skirt and turquoise organza
blouse, managed to help in several places
at once. Marie Plante, with puff-ball
sleeves to her black net gown, was occu-
pied with door money, and Molly Swan-
son, in black velvet and diamente clips,
was seen carrying supper through the
throng. Mrs. Fred Thomas, also in black
velvet, preferred the log fire in the hall
to bridge. In the throng of heads and
shoulders glimpses were caught of Mrs.
A. G. Glenister’s brick-dust-red gown,
of the scarlet hair-ribbon worn by sweets-
vendor Molly Yewers, of Mrs. Ken
Hardey and the Lem Callaways, of Vera
Whiting wearing gardenias and flowered
chiffon, and of Miss M. Ward, winner
of the lucky-number chocolate basket.
From a wigmaker who remembers the
ins and outs of the theatre for the last
half-century comes a tale of a “Paul
Jones” production of many decades ago.
Madame Burton, a woman of excellent
if somewhat extensive physique, was
playing Paul Jones. Nellie Stewart was
Yvonne, chosen love of hero Paul. One
night in the wings Nellie became tem-
peramental, and Madame completely lost
her temper, popped Nellie across her
knee and smacked her so hard that her
make-up was ruined through weeping.


METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE BOARD, SYDNEY
£1,000,000 LOAN.
INTEREST, 4i PER CENT. PRICE OF ISSUE. £99.
REPAYABLE 1951.
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Applications to the Loan will be accepted at the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia, Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
and Hobart, or through members of a recognised Stock Exchange for
amounts of £lOO or multiples of £lOO.
INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL ARE REPAYABLE FREE OF
EXCHANGE AT ANY OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED BRANCHES
OF THE COMMONWEALTH BANK.
Subscriptions to the Loan may be paid with application in full or by
the following:—
Option 1.—10% with the application.
30% on October 16, 1936.
30% on November 16, 1936-
29% on December 16, 1936.
Option 2.—10% on application.
89% up to December 16, 1936.
SECURITIES ISSUED BY THE BOARD ARE A TRUSTEE INVEST-
MENT IN NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND AND TASMANIA.
Commission at the rate of 5/-% will be paid on all allotments in
respect of applications lodged by members of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
The Board reserves the right to partially allot applications and to close
the Loan without notice at a prior date.
SYDNEY.
T, Haynes Upton, President.
K J. Henry, Secretary.
WIRELESS APPARATUS
IS USED
The manufacture of wireless equip-
ment in Australia has attained a
very high degree of efficiency.
A.W.A. wireless equipment has
been installed in over 300 ships,
and the Company regularly ex-
ports to Great Britain wireless
equipment for vessels building
there for Australian and New Zea-
land shipping companies.
Over 40 Broadcasting Stations
have been made by A.W.A. for all
parts of Australia, New Zealand,
Papua and Fiji. A 60 k.w. station
is now being manufactured for the
N.Z. National Broadcasting Ser-
vice. When finished it will be the
most powerful broadcasting station
in the Southern Hemisphere.
A.W.A. are the largest manufac-
turers of broadcasting receivers in
Australia.
The design and manufacture of
wireless equipment for aeroplanes,
and for ground communication
with aircraft, constitutes still an-
other phase of A.W.A. manu-
facture.
This great national work provides
employment for more than 1,100
Australians.
rA
©
0
AT SEA
Jt'JI *
If
ON LAND
r«r
IN AIR
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Kindergarten Union reversed the
usual order during its collection cam-
paign by putting on its grown-ups’
dance the night before the children’s
party. Organiser Mrs. W. E. Southwood,
with black velvet cape over her crackling
taffetas, headed the committee, composed
of this season’s debs., who formed a
bodyguard, all in white, for the v.-r.
party. After the official entrance the
fledglings fluttered off with their partners
into a barn dance, and a little later Ali-
son Lee gave an interlude with a warmly-
applauded Hungarian ballet. Mrs. Goyne
Miller, head of the campaign committee,
was there in shimmering black chiffon
velvets ; principal Gladys Pendred trailed
a length of heavy white lace, and Mar-
jorie Southwood carried out secretarial
duties in pastel floral georgettes. Greta
Cockram’s black chiffons twinkled with
diamente, Beryl Mclntosh lined the
shoulder drapes of her white cloque with
violet, ostrich-feather trimming was
blown on to Yvonne de Grancy’s lumin-
ous blue satins and Valerie Hubbard’s
cornflower crepes were dotted with pink
spots.
The kiddies’ fancy-dress party in Gov-
ernment House ballroom drew a record
attendance. Many nations were color-
fully represented ; two-year-old bunnies
cavorted with more mature lions and
bears, nursery-land characters were
legion and powder-puffs, flowers and
historical notables figured in the medley.
Acting-Governor Mitchell, who, with his
lady, entered into the spirit of the frivol,
took grandson Richard Anketell on a
tour of the sideshows.
Christ Church, Claremont, was decked
with branches of fluffy peach-blossom
and the altar was fragrant with orange-
blossom and carnations when Peggy
Tomlinson kept her tryst with Geoffrey
Basham. Shimmering pearls finished the
tight-fitting sleeves and the front of the
bodice of her curd-white satin, which
fell in swooping undulations to the tip of
her long train, where a cute satin fold
edged the entire hem. Her fluffy tulle
veil, anchored with a tiara of orange-
blossom, floated over her bouquet of
camellias. Lone attendant Zoie Bennett
tied a short georgette cape over her
Spode blue sleeveless frock, which
mounted from the ground to a trim Peter
Pan collar.
Under the direction of its president,
Joyce Mortlock, the Shakspeare Club
revived “The Merchant of Venice” for
a two-night stand at the Assembly Hall.
Costumes were good, and the sequence of
curtained scenes ran smoothly. William
Brown extracted his pound of flesh with
verve, Mable Balding was a competent
advocate of mercy, Laurel Berryman
made Nerissa soft and appealing and Bill
Scott’s whimsical rendering of young
Gobbo was notable.
The star shivoo of the inter-State
hockey carnival was a dance at Anzac
House. Mrs. Keith Woodroffe was there
with a spattering of gold on her black
taffetas, Mrs. Don Cleland’s cloque crepe
rippled pink and gold, Jean Lang flung a
tulle cape over her iris georgettes and 11a
Hollingsworth’s silver lame was covered
with silk net.
Dorothy Carroll, as the result of her
sojourn at the University of London, has
added Ph.D. to her B.Sc. She takes up
the position of assistant-lecturer in
geology at Perth Uni.
Eric Heenan, the youngest member of
our Leg. Council, gave a dinner party at
the Esplanade to celebrate his engagement
to Joan McKenna, of Mt. Lawley, who
chose a diamente-ornamented black
velvet gown for the occasion. The couple
are both members of the legal fraternity,
and the bride-to-be hopes to continue in
the profession after her marriage.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A bright dance was given by Dr.
Helen Mayo, Dr. Constance Finlayson
and Miss Gertrude Young at their joint
residence, Brougham-place, North Adel-
aide, for two nieces and a nephew of
Dr. Mayo and a niece of Miss Young. The
hostesses received in the ballroom, Dr.
Mayo in black romaine with silver hair
stripe. Miss Young in black lace slightly
trained, and Dr. Finlayson in bottle-
green chiffon velvet.
The visiting women golfers are having
a gay time. On the day of their arrival
they met at a cocktail party given by
Mrs. M. E. H. Ridgway ; in the evening
there was bridge at the home of Mrs.
E. Britten Jones. Miss Waite gaVe a
luncheon party at the Mount Lofty links,
followed by afternoon-tea at her home.
Myer’s ball drew a crowd of a thou-
sand to the Palais Royal. Norman Myer
made a special trip from Melbourne to
be present; so did Mr. Tolley, one of the
directors. Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Martin,
of the Adelaide branch, were host and
hostess, the lady charming in pale-grey
flowered Chene taffeta, made with full
flowing skirt and a tight-fitting bodice
with off-shoulder effect. Mrs. Baden
Pattinson’s white delustred satin flowered
with pink posies was cut on slim lines.
Mrs. C. McArthur sported Marina-blue
crepe, cut high in the neck and sleeve-
less, with a silver belt. Mrs. Urquhart
chose a gown of Paisley silk and a
tailored jacket of stitched gold lame.
Two girls representing Pioneer Ships
have raised much money for Kuitpo by
means of dances. Nancy, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Harry Gilbert, aided by a
committee of girls, engineered a party in
the Blind Institute at North Adelaide,
when about 100 young people were
present. Almond-blossom decorated.
Nancy, who represents the ship Bucking-
ham, danced in white silk flowered in
powder-blue and primrose. Ruth Winser
was in white chiffon with a folded belt
of pale-blue velvet, and Shirley Wilson
chose a period frock of black taffeta.
Megan Beale, who represents the ship
Pestonjee Bowmanjee, ran a cheery dance
in the Freemasons’ Hall, at which the
young hostess made her debut, wearing a
pretty frock of white silk net veiling
white taffeta, the skirt 30 yards round.
She received the guests with her aunt Mrs.
Carnfield Park, who was gowned in
black satin. The stage was banked with
wattle and Aunt Elizas, and a model of
the Pestonjee Bowmanjee that had been
carved by a sailor on board the ship
when she made that first eventful voyage
had a place of honor.
The A.B.C. gave an afternoon party
at the South Australian to enable music-
lovers to meet Madame Rethberg and
Signor Pinza. Iceland poppies and daffo-
dils decked the lounge, and Mr. and
Mrs. C. Hosking received the guests, the
hostess sporting a leaf-brown ensemble
with short cape effect, and a brown
toque.
TASMANIA.
The Masonic Ball occupied Hobart’s
City Hall, where 13 debs, curtsied to the
Governor and his wife. Lady Clark
struck an effective silvery note in her
pale-grey crepe and mauve-toned flowers,
diamond necklace and earrings, and well-
dressed white hair. His Ex. is Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge.
The United Service Institute’s at-home
spread itself over the Masonic Hall and
the institute’s rooms. President Col.
E. M. Williams and the committee issued
invitations to 345 guests, and most of
them turned out. Red, white and blue
decorations, Navy, Army and Air Force
gadgets and varying hues of uniforms
added to the colors of the women’s
frocks to make a bright scene. Mrs. E.
M. Williams chose blue delustred crepe,
Mrs. A. P. Crisp's black had a. deep
fringe trimming, Mrs. R. H. Robinson
sported cyclamen pink and Mrs. Oeralcl
Adams danced in dull-pink chiffon.
Lady Clark opened the new lice
kindergarten, the Barclay, a vast improve-
ment on the little cramped building
hitherto used, at a bazaar got up to help
pay for the new premises. Plenty ot
windows make the big rooms cheerful,
and children and teachers alike will
appreciate the change.
Mrs. Arnold Banks-Smith on her re-
tirement from the N.C.W. entertained
executive members at tea at Hadley s.
Lady Clark and Hobart’s Lady Mayoress
were there.
Sheila Keating and E. H. Mackey were
married at St. Joseph’s, the bride wearing
soft magnolia satin. A long train fell
from the shoulders, sleeves were long
and tight, and the voluminous tulle veil
had a little halo of orange-buds across
the back of the head. Bride’s cousin,
Mary Keating, attended in white net
sewn at intervals with small pearls, and
worn with a fichu effect on the bodice.
A fascinating little net cap with gar-
denias all round it completed the picture.
Betty Sale won the women’s golf
championship of the Speck at Rosny, get-
ting ahead of Miss F. Gatehouse, Royal
Hobart associate champion, by two
strokes.
News comes by cable that Joan, one
of the Ken Shoobridge twins, of Conis-
ton, Glenora, now on a visit to England,
there became engaged to Norman Hall.
They were married in London.
Hobart’s City Hail was filled to burst-
ing for Richard Crooks’s one and only
concert in Tasmania.


hort Story
r Writing
tyree Lance
‘Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time! Course of Training ever written?
Instruction and Constructive Criticism bv Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. $• School of Journalism
110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and P 7
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
SALE OF SHARES.
SALE OF SHARES. SALE OF SHARES.
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY.
25,000 “A” SHARES OF £6 EACH
IN THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY.
IN LOTS OF 16 WITH THE OPTION OP TAKING A LESSER NUMBER.
FOR AUCTION SALE
IN THE ROOMS OF RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED,
92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, ON
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1936,
COMMENCING AT 10 A.M.
Terms and Conditions announced at the Sale, or obtainable on application to the Auctioneers, Members
of the Stock Exchange, or the Australian Gas Light Company.
THE ATTENTION OF INVESTORS AND OTHERS IS DIRECTED TO THE UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY
OP ACQUIRING AN INVESTMENT IN WHAT IS JUSTLY CLAIMED AND RECOGNISED BY THE
INVESTING PUBLIC TO BE ONE OP THE SOUNDEST COMPANIES IN THE COMMONWEALTH
25,000 “A” SHARES OP £6 EACH IN THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LIMITED, Auctioneers, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Why Not Dak Bungalows?
"Darwaza Band Karo”: One of the
Great Australian Mysteries to me is why
Queensland and the North generally have
not adopted the Indian dak-bungalow
idea. Anywhere in the backblocks of
India I know that within a few miles,
if I am on any sort of a road, I will find
a house into which I can walk as if it
were my own and for a very reasonable
charge secure a decent meal, a moder-
ately decent bed and bath and service.
In Australia all I can find very often is
a wayside joint where they serve goat
and galah—that is, unless I pull up at
a town, and it is a long way between
towns.
Somebody will shout “Expense!” at
me, but the Government, if it laid down
bungalows, would save so much on civil-
service travelling expenses alone that the
capital outlay would be worth while.
Someone will also remark ironically that
domestic labor in India costs next to
nothing. Individual labor does, but
when you have an ancient khansamah,
bhisti, chowkidar, sais, sweeper and a
couple of dozen relations all taking bak-
sheesh out of the revenue they come far
dearer than a good married couple and
are much harder on the overhead and
upkeep account. And don’t let anybody
tell me that you couldn’t get labor. I
know a Norwegian shipping co. with
about 80 ships which gets stewards by
giving them a couple of years’ domestic-
science training and a status of which
they are proud. Give me a hundred
bungalows in Queensland and I’ll find a
way of training a regular supply of labor
which will come up to tourist standards.
“X.T.”: Queensland coastal country
newspapers are beginning to get the
bumps that struck those of southern
States when aerial services were estab-
lished. Last Sunday’s Brisbane news-
papers—7ooo of one alone—were de-
livered in North Queensland the same
day. And from now on the “Courier-
Mail” will be in Rockhampton early each
morning of publication.
* * * *
“Chinchilla”: Latest figures show that
18,000,000 acres of prickly-pear land has
been cleared and opened for settlement in
Queensland and 17,000,000 acres actually
resettled. The area is bigger than Tas-
mania, and the cost has been about
£750,000, or less than Is. an acre.
* * * #
“Selwyn”; They’re a meek lot in
n.-w. Queensland. The first motor-car
went to Cloncurry in 1908 ; now, 28
years afterwards, the local paper records
that many of the roads which lead to the
railway town, and over which produce
and stores have to be carried, are un-
trafficable. The paper quietly points out
that the thousands upon thousands of
pounds which have been laid out on
tracks in about half a century “seem not
to have been spent to the best advan-
tage.” About £30,000 would build a
first-class road right over the Selwyns
from plain country to Barkly Tableland.
Of course, such a highway might com-
pete with the heavily-losing railway.
# # * *
“Rocky”: The absence in Sydney of
A. R. Woolcock, who commanded the
42nd Battalion, didn’t stop his voice being
heard at the reunion in Brisbane last
week. Special arrangements were made
for him to propose the toast of the old
unit by radio telephone, and, as there
was rather less noise than at Bullecourt,
his words came through clearly, and the
group of old battalion members who were
with him at Sydney G.P.O. equally
clearly heard the response of S. Melloy
spoken at the Brisbane end. As the 42nd
is largely a country battalion —its com-
mander, who returned with the D.S.O.
and Croix de Guerre, hailed from
Rockhampton—it is intended to de-
velop the radio idea and link up the old
hands in future years with reunions at
Rockhampton, Warwick and Toowoomba.
# * *
“X.T.”: Judging by the enthusiasm
with which Sydney organisers are enter-
ing on the job there is going to be a lot
of money wasted before the round-Aus-
tralia race starts in 1938, Already one
unofficial survey party has started out,
apparently oblivious of the fact that it
is going too late in the season to do
really useful work, and that the condi-
tions which it will find in the swiftly-
changing North in August and September
“With the ’ot Weather comm on, ma, I better cut a firebreak round
that timber .”
are foreign to the conditions of May and
June. Also, the terrain of 1936 may be
entirely changed in some areas in 1938.
A heavy monsoon rain or a drought
makes all the difference between sand-
drifts and no sand-drifts, washed-away
creek banks or otherwise, and whether
or not there is long grass to hide the
tracks. There should be one official sur-
vey made as close to the race date as
possible, and a very rigid control of com-
petitors and their types of vehicle and
methods.
•»: *2* ■s'
“Clayfield”: Tears of homesickness
will come to Sydney visitors to Brisbane
when they see our latest innovation. We
are to have police traps in the city and
suburbs. Why it is better to put two
policemen into a side street watching for
misdemeanants than to put one to patrol
the open road I don’t know. The best
deterrent I know to road hogs is a horse-
mounted patrol. It wouldn’t take many
men to cover all the danger spots on
Brisbane’s main traffic thoroughfares.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
This year’s Royal Show sensation was
provided by W. E. Huston, a 22-year-
old, almost self-taught Allora farmer-
artist. He submitted in the Fine Arts
section 35 pictures, and gathered in 30
awards. G. G. Prentice, who judged the
fine arts at Toowoomba show, was so
struck that he paid the young artist's sub.
to the Royal Queensland Art Society.
Trams resemble ants’ nests, and the
city streets are clogged. This year’s show
is bigger and brighter than ever.
Bishop Dixon and Enid Morgan Jones
were married very quietly at the private
chapel at Bishopsbourne, Archbishop
Wand, assisted by Chaplain A. E. Morris,
performing the ceremony. The bride’s
father. Rev. Morgan Jones, gave her
away, and her sister Vera was brides-
maid. The bride wore a brown three-
quarter-length coat over her daffodil
„ .
crepe frock, and carried a posy of daffo-
dils. Archbishop and Mrs. Wand enter-
tained the bridal party at breakfast at
Bishopsbourne.
The City Hall represented a battle-
cruiser when Admiral Lane Poole and
j|j s w jf e a ttended the United Service
Club’s at-home to receive the 25 debs,
To make it more homelike, two smart
sa ilor lads from H.M.A.S. Canberra
“piped down” for the admiral as he
W alked to the stage. Colonel J. Hill and
his wife, the latter in black patterned
with carnations and a cape of black
Spanish lace, received the guests, assisted
by Major and Mrs. G. G. G. Smith, the
latter wearing a floral-patterned black
gown. Sir Godfrey and Lady Whiskard
were among the guests, and Commander
and Mrs. E. C. Rhodes brought along
a big party, as did Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Pie, who previously had entertained at
a fork-dinner. Mrs. J. Hill was matron
of honor for the debs., and Major Mc-
Eachern announced them.
One of the gayest five-to-seven par-
ties of Show Week was given by Phyllis
Bell, of Eskdale, who entertained about
100 of the Younger Setters before the
United .Service Club’s at-home. Mrs.
R. M. Bell helped her daughter.
Blue and white decorations, including
white poppies from Warwick, were a
feature of the fourteenth annual ball
arranged by Nudgee old boys. Five
pretty debs, curtsied to Archbishop
Duhig. The J. P. Graltons received the
guests.
Over 1000 gyrated at the Movie Ball in
the City Hall. Each company had a deco-
rative scheme for its own particular
alcove, and flags and posters added to
the gay effect. Ned Tyrrell and his
Regent orchestra supplied the music.
Knight Vic Wilson, F. M. J. Baker,
M.H.R., and Mrs. Baker, Senator and
Mrs. Foil were the official guests, and
were received by Bill Winterflood and his
daughter Joyce.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Crothers (Dirran-
bandi) were among those who entertained
at dinner parties during the week. Their
do was at Lennon’s.
Dozens of dinner parties and five-to-
seven gatherings were held on Wednes-
day night, prior to the Movie Ball and
the Girls’ Ball. At the latter, 60 girls
entertained town and country friends
in the South Brisbane Technical College,
a venue that never fails to draw a senti-
mental sigh from mother’s breast, for it
was there that she attended all the dances
when she was a girl. Father often popped
the question on the verandah that over-
looks the river.
The Motor Ball was held at the Troca-
dero, and novel posters decorated the
alcoves. Miss M. Freeney, in cherry dull-
red crepe, was official hostess. Mrs. C.
Friedman and Mr. B. Wilson, joint hon.
secretaries, assisted. The official alcove,
where chairman of committee V. L.
Weddell, Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Firth, Mr.
and Mrs. R. Harrison, Mr. and Mrs.
Harry Taylor (Sydney), Mr. and Mrs.
W. J. Smith (Boonah), Mr. and Mrs. A.
Calcino (Charleville), Mr. F. Ireland and
Mr. L. Earl (both from Cairns) were
seated, was bright with Iceland poppies
and gumtips. Members of the J.C.W. co.
at present at H.M. Theatre provided a
cheerful musical programme.
Although the period for Court mourn-
ing is over, most of the women at the
official luncheon given by the R.N.A.
Society appeared in magpie tonings.
Knight Leslie and Lady Wilson were re-
ceived by president of the Royal National
Association, E. J. Shaw, Mrs. Shaw and
other members of the committee. Lady
Wilson wore black matelasse in bolero
style over a white blouse. Marjorie Wil-
son also was in black, with a white
stitched hat with a rolled brim. Mrs.
E. C. Rhodes, who was with her Com-
mander husband, also chose black, as did
Mrs. Forgan Smith and Mrs. Percy Pease.
There was hardly room to move about
the lawns at the Q.T.C. carnival meet-
ing, to which most of the guests at the
official luncheon at the Show went after-
wards. Ella O’Shea held a tea party on
the committee-room verandah, and the
James Blairs also entertained. Mr.
and Mrs. Laidley Dowling, of Syd-
ney, and their daughter Pamela gave a
basket picnic in the car paddock during
the luncheon adjournment—one of the
cheeriest entertainments of the week—
and the Bells of Coochin, a devoted
family who always move about in large
clumps, were all together, with a
sprinkling of outsiders for novelty’s sake.


wrr
wmm
if
mmmm
ft
■ i
H
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave
(The set that received 60S verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send jor Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N'.S.W. Agrents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
tan Kuyten Car and Launch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
V!
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C.. 227. 3/6: 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6: 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL, ARCADE, SYDNEY.
MA moms
''ZSS&I
1936 A.V.C.
PJENTAGKID SIA.
£9/7/6.
RADIO NEWS
SIMPLIFIED MONEYSAVER BATTERY SUPERHET.
The Concluding Constructional Details.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Testing and Aligning.
The I.F. transformers and the padder
have been aligned approximately at the
factory, and should require very little
adjustment. If an oscillator or signal
generator is available the alignment can
be done in the normal way by any
person competent to carry out the work.
Prior to lining up, the four trimmers
(mounted on the switch) should be ad-
justed to about half capacity. The two
trimmers nearest the front of the chassis
are for aerial trimming, and those near-
est the back are both oscillators. Both
trimmers nearest the side of the chassis
are broadcast, and those nearest the
centre are short-wave.
Alignment by “noise” —broadcast band.
—Commence by tuning the set to about
200 metres, and adjust the aerial trimmer
only; the correct position for this
trimmer is when the “noise” attains its
highest volume. Now tune the set above
2FC and adjust the padder similarly to
the aerial trimmer. (These adjustments
should be made in daylight, as inter-
state stations will interfere with adjust-
ments.) When the padder is finished,
re-tune to about 200 metres and adjust
the aerial again.
The aerial trimmer should be adjusted
only on approximately 200 and the
padder only on about 500 metres.
Alignment by signal—broadcast band.
—For the more advanced set-builder this
method will have more appeal. This
operation must be carried out with the
volume con-
trol left full
on. The
volume is
then con-
trolled by ad-
justment of
the sensitiv-
ity control.
If the volume
cannot be re-
duced sufficiently on a strong signal by
this control, the C bias should
be increased temporarily to six or nine
volts.
The first adjustment is made on a
station or oscillator signal on or about
200 metres. The aerial trimmer is the
only trimmer to be adjusted. When
this is completed the set should be
tuned to about 500 metres (either station
or oscillator) and the padder adjusted,
the method used being to “rock” the
gang over the signal while the padder
is adjusted until maximum volume is
attained.
When the padder is adjusted, the set
should be tuned to about 200 metres
again, and the aerial trimmer given a
final adjustment. When this is com-
pleted the 10,000-ohm volume control
should be removed and the set wired as
before. Before changing to short waves
the intermediates should be carefully ad-
justed, using a station or 465 kc. signal.
Be careful when adjusting the I.F.
trimmer screws not to short the B screw
to the shield. If this occurs and the
screw starts arcing to the shield, imme-
diately blow the arc out just as you
would blow out a candle, or switch off
the B batteries.
Aligning the short waves. —Tune the
set to about 19 metres; it should be
possible to pick up noise and static, but,
failing this, a station signal should be
used. Turn the aerial trimmer slowly
until maximum noise or signal strength
is attained.
It is important that the aerial lead-in
is short and not shielded. A shielded
lead-in will definitely spoil short-wave
reception and upset tracking. The best
aerial is one about 30ft. long, of 7/22
enamel wire, with a short lead-in, though
tor finest results on both wave-bands a
doublet with transposed feeders should
be used.
Safety Rules.
Owing to the principle of switching in
this receiver it is imperative that no
alterations be made to the set without
first removing the battery plug. To safe-
guard against possible blowout of the
valves a 2.5-volt pilot-lamp should be
connected between B negative of the B
batteries and the A—, B—, C + lead of
the battery cable.
In the event of accidentally shorting a
plate to earth or a B- to earth while
the set is switched off, and should any-
thing be amiss, the pilot lamp will blow
out instead of the valves.
Other Notes.
Should any trouble be experienced with
oscillation in the output stage —that is,
TDD-1 circuit —this can be cured by in-
serting .2-megohm resistors in parallel
with each half of the secondary of the
audio transformer —that is, between the
TDD-1 grids and earth—and also con-
necting ,006mfd. condensers between the
plates and earth, i.e., one in each plate.
When operating the receiver it should
be remembered that the Class-B output
valve draws maximum current at maxi-
mum volume and minimum current at
minimum volume, and therefore the
lower the volume the lower the cost of
running. Should the set be mounted in
a cabinet it should be mounted on
rubber if possible.
What’s What in Radio.
A new short-wave station, stated to be
nore powerful than any other in Canada,
has been opened at Drummondville,
Quebec. The station operates on 6,005
kilocycles, 49.96 m., and the callsign is
CFCX.
* * * *
French radio authorities are reported
to be keeping a close eye on certain
announcers who have allowed their pri-
vate opinions or points of view to color
news items. It is not suggested that any
deliberate falsification or even exaggera-
tion of news has been indulged in, but
much can be conveyed, especially in
France, by delicate manipulation of the
The stand of the Zero Beat Radio Club (N.S.W.) at the 1936 Amateur Radio
Exhibition held in Sydney.
tone of voice. Announcers must now
deal with “plain facts in a plain manner”
without the flourishes of rhetoric which
have often been the rule in the past.
* * * *
A special commission appointed by
the U.I.R. (Union Internationale de
Radiodiffusion, Geneva) is working out
a plant for allotting short-wave channels
to recognised broadcasting stations. The
scheme will not deal with Europe alone,
but will govern short-wave transmitters
throughout the world, allotting suitable
frequencies according to geographical
positions.
* * * *
A new metal, eloxal, described as
bronze-colored aluminium, was recently
shown in Berlin. Eloxal is oxidated alu-
minium, produced by electrolysis. It can
be manufactured in three colors —silver,
canary yellow and bronze. Probably
rather expensive, but attractive for radio
chassis.
Zero Beat Radio Club.
This prominent Sydney club, affiliated
with the W.1.A., holds bi-weekly meetings
on Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. at the
clubrooms, Sydney Arcade. The last Fri-
day in the month is reserved for a social
evening to which all are invited. Visitors
during recent weeks have included Mr.
Gofard, of Mt. Isa (Q.) radio club, and
country member Sautelle. Z.B.R.C. won
the inter-club cup at the recent W.I.A.
exhibition, and Ron Hands, VK.2ZD,
took delivery of the same from Mr.
Crawford, Senr. R.I. for N.S.W. Pot-
hunters are to have further opportunities
to add to collections. For transmitting
members a Morse receiving competition
will run over several weeks, and a series
of three field days is to be organised,
commencing in October. Rumors of
another transmitting competition hold
forth promises of a Hammarlund trans-
mitting condenser and a pair of 53 and
56 valves. Five-metre activity is increas-
ing in the club and much ultra-SW work
is planned. The recent field day was
noteworthy for the straying of champion
hiker H. Whyte-Meach, who took the
wrong turning and finished up far from
home, the only successful entrant being
Pete Mulligan (VK2ABH).
VK2PP.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Already with warmer weather some ot
the 19m. stations are emerging from the
silence that enwrapped them during the
midwinter evenings. They are still
rather variable, but one night at 9.15 1
logged three German stations and one
Dutch on this band, all at fair to good
strength. On another occasion I heard two
or the Germans, though very faintly, as
early as 6.15 p.m. On the 31m. band
the American W1XK opens up at 8.30
p.m. with a Sousa march in almost the
same dial position as 3LR. Later in
View from the radio-room of an
American amateur at Portland, Maine,
U.S.A., during the recent severe winter.
the evening the new Havana station
(noted in B. 29/7/’36) may be heard;
usually it speaks in Spanish, but one Wed-
nesday it gave a religious revivalist talk
in English, followed by a couple of soul-
ful songs by a girl. This station may also
be heard in the afternoons.
Still prominent in the early mornings
are the German IPA transmitters DZH
(J4,460kc.) and DZC (10,290 kc.). Being
directional to East Asia, they come
through much more strongly than DID
and DJC (which are directional to
Africa), and provide news talks and musi-
cal items which continue, with only, slight
intervals, until after breakfast. Partisan-
ship colors most of the news that emanates
from the theatre of the Spanish conflict,
and the German reports of rebel suc-
cesses must be received with as much
reservation, perhaps, as the cabled an-
nouncements of victories by the loyalist
troops. What becomes of tragic signi-
ficance to the short-wave listener, as he
turns from Berlin to Moscow, from Paris
to Rome, is the menacing mobilisation
of sympathies. Fascist and Communist.
Daventry itself speaks with a note of
anxiety which the calm voice of its an-
nouncer cannot conceal.
A most interesting find is the new
Czecho-Slovakian station at Praha,
logged at 7 a.m. According to W.A.
reports this station had been heard test-
ing, towards the end of July, on three
different wave-lengths—l9.69B metres
(15,230 kc.), 25.51 m. (11,760 kc.) and
49.05 m. (6115kc.)—each being tried in
turn for half an hour at a time. In my
case it was heard on the wave-length of
19.698 m.—just below DJB. Having
34kw. power, it puts over a strong signal.
For the greater part of the three-quarters
of an hour during which I listened to it
it was giving musical items, with an
occasional announcement.
In a letter to the writer the Reich-
Rundfunkgesellschaft, Berlin, says: “You
will probably be interested to hear that
from August 1 on our stations will be
sending with increased power; in fact,
since July 26 DJB has been broadcast-
ing with increased power from 6 a.m.
to 5 p.m., C.E.T. [3 p.m. to 2 a.m.. Syd-
ney time], and DJA from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.


r
RADIOTRON
The Importance of Good Valves
The most vital part of a broadcast receiver is its valve equipment. No Radio
can give good performance without good valves. Radiotrons conform to
the world's highest standards in design, material, construction and perform-
ance. See that your set is equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
147-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
k
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Vlfe.6
fAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Ltd.l
[ll p.m. to 2 a.ra., S.T.]. Have you
noticed the difference?” The difference
has been quite apparent, and accounts
in part for the fact that the German
stations on the 19m. band are now being
heard in fair to good strength at a com-
paratively early hour in the evening.
The change in season, however, is also a
contributing factor. On August 9 the
strength of DJB was really astonishing.
Conditions that day must have been ex-
ceptional, for in the afternoon the Ameri-
can amateurs on the 20m. band were
coming through with unusual clearness.
On Sunday, August 9, at 3 p.m., a
station was heard rather faintly on
31.8 m. This is the wave-length of COH
Havana, which it may possibly have
been. Many listeners have remarked
upon the number of Central and South
American stations that have been heard
lately. The Westralian “Wireless News”
publishes a letter from a correspondent
(Mr. Dafter, of Swanbourne) who is
keen on meteorology, “I have found
repeatedly,” he writes, “that about this
time of the year reception is best along
isothermal lines. The mean isothermal
line of 60deg. F. passes through here and
the centre of South America at this time
of the year, and while the temperature
throughout is uniform we seem to hear
many South Americans.” Among the
South Americans reported in the West
are HJ4ABD on 52.17 m., HIZ (D.R.)
on 47.50 m., HJ4ABC on 46.51 m.,
HJ4ABL on 47.02 m„ HJIABK on 42m.
and HJIABE on 31.58 m. HPSK Colon.
Panama, on 49.96 m., is also reported.
Most short-wave listeners who have
experimented with aerials have observed
the varying strength of the reception ob-
tained from particular countries accord-
ing to the direction in which the aerial
happens to run. Recently the engineers
of the Zenith Radio Corporation (U.S.A.)
carried out interesting tests of the direc-
tional properties of the doublet type of
antenna. For this purpose use was made
of a 190 ft. twin-screw yacht that can
be turned in almost its own length. A
standard doublet consisting of two 30ft.
lengths of wire with a transmission line
tapped in at the centre was erected
between the masts of the ship. A seven-
tube receiver was used, and a meter was
placed in the plate circuit of one of the
I.F. tubes, so that if would vary with
signal strength owing to the action of the
A.V.C. The meter was calibrated
directly in microvolts to the receiver.
With this antenna rig, the ship was
rotated slowly through a complete circle.
The receiver was tuned to station DJC
in Germany, and when the ship was
turned so that the direction of the
doublet was at right-angles to the direc-
tion of the signals the meter read about
250 microvolts input. With the doublet
pointing directly at the station, the input
dropped to 50 microvolts. The check
was made on the ship because it was
convenient to turn the antenna and make
the complete test in the space of a few
minutes, while if it had been made on
land a much longer time would have
been taken to shift direction, with the
result that atmospheric conditions would
have had to be taken into account.
P.R.W.
W.I.A. (N.S.W.) Exhibition.
Prize Meeting.
At a meeting of the N.S.W. Division
W.I.A. prizes won at the recent amateur
radio show were distributed by Senior
Radio Inspector W. T. S. Crawford.
Replying to a vote of thanks, Mr. Craw-
ford spoke of the desirability of raising
the telegraphic operating standard of
amateur transmitters. His offer of a
trophy for the best amateur telegraphist
for annual competition was received with
enthusiasm. Life memberships were be-
stowed on F. Goyen and R. H. Power,
former State president and hon. sec. re-
spectively. J. Moyle (VK2JU) was
elected to the council, and Gordon Wells
(Waverley Radio Club) was made an
honorary member for 12 months in
recognition of his services in connection
with his low-definition television display
at the exhibition.
Amateur Chatter.
There must be many amateurs who
feel the need for an advanced superhet
of the Ideal type, capable of covering
everything from 10 metres to the 600-
metre marine channel. The amateur
bandspread type of superhet with indi-
vidual bandsetters is excellent for ama-
teur-band coverage, but has its incon-
venient moments when it may be desired
to tune to one of the international short-
wave broadcasting bands. Unless such
bands have been previously logged and
calibrated it is no easy matter to locate
them at short notice. With the object
of combining amateur with all-wave re-
quirements, the writer has designed and
completed a new superhet, to be de-
scribed in an early issue as the High-
gainer. It tunes from 10 metres (if
required) up to around 800 metres, and
Many short - wave
listeners are familiar
with the 20-metre
telephony transmis-
sions from Ameri-
can amateur station
W6AM, of Long
Beach, California.
This illustration,
fro in “Television
and Short-wave
World” (Eng.),
shows the extensive
aerial arrangements
at this station. The
lattice tower sup-
porting the many
radiating systems is
171 feet high, not
exactly suited to the
hack garden of the
average experi-
menter:
is a five-valve arrangement with speaker
and headphone output. The valves used
are respectively 6L7 mixer, 76 oscillator,
6D6 I.F. (with iron cores), 79 combined
second detector (plus oscillation control
for 8.F.0. and first audio), with 38 pen-
tode output. It is built up as a real com-
munications type receiver, and is not at
all difficult to construct. An aerial
tuning unit is included for all ranges. The
performance is excellent, and it is anti-
cipated that the receiver will be even
more popular than the Ideal (described
B. 15/4/’36).
At one time the 80-metre band was a
particularly useful one for traffic and
interesting inland contacts, but much of
that interest is now destroyed by the
craze for duplexing. Whilst this method
of telephone communication may be con-
sidered useful to a certain degree, it can
also be very much overdone. One can
listen for hours any evening on 80 at
the present time to stations engaged in
duplex conversations dealing with any-
thing but the experimental side of ama-
teur radio without hearing much refer-
ence to a callsign. Furthermore, many
stations close down without even men-
tioning the callsign. Non-transmission
of the station call is a definite breach
of regulations, and duplex exponents
should bear this in mind. The nature
of some of the conversations also leaves
much to be desired. Some of the inti-
macies are of a sort that should not be
broadcast.
Arguments have been in evidence on
the 20-metre band as to the merits or
demerits of the Jones multiband single-
wire-feed antenna. Whilst it should be
obvious that any radiating system de-
signed expressly for the particular fre-
quency must actually be more efficient
than a compromise, yet the Jones an-
tenna has very definite advantages. It
permits easy and very effective opera-
tion over the amateur bands with only
one antenna. In the writers case the
system is designed, owing to space limi-
tations, for half-wave on 40 metres. As
such it is a good all-round directional
radiator at this frequency. At 20 metres
there is considerable endwise direc-
tivity, with lobes of radiation at 52
degrees. As the system must run north
and south, this is quite useful, and the
proof of the pudding is in the easy eat-
ing of European contacts on 20. Dur-
ing the first week-end of the German
D.A.S.D. contest, six Germans and one
Lithuanian station were worked between
midday and 1.30 p.m. with R 7 reports.
The single-wire feeder is not tapped on
to the final tank circuit directly, but link-
coupled, as in the “Radio Handbook.”
Two of these antennae at right angles to
each other, with a change-over switch,
would, in the writer’s opinion, consti-
tute an ideal arrangement. The system
also works well on 80 against ground
as a Marconi radiator.
VK2NO.
International Harvester Co. (U.S.A.)
has produced the first radio-controlled
farm tractor. The farmer can, from a
distance, start and stop the tractor, make
it turn to the left or right, or run back-
wards.
Latest in the Trade.
The July, 1936, “Radio” contains,
as usual, a host of interesting features.
Recently the type 6L6 “beam power” tube
was introduced in this country ; therefore
an article dealing with the design of a
high-power modulator using four of these
tubes in push-pull parallel is of particular
value here. Another article describes the
use of this unusual tube as a volume
expander, the information being spon-
sored by R.C.A. In the trade section
there is a detailed review of the R.C.A.
type “ACR-175” communications super-
het. Apart from the many unusual
features of the design, it is interest-
ing to note that iron-cored intermediates
are employed, but with no trimming con-
densers. The peaking is obtained by
permeability variation, effected by the
setting of a screw in the centre of the
core. This principle is available in Aus-
tralia in the Sirufer iron-cores handled
by Ducon Condenser Pty., Ltd., but so
far no Australian manufacturer appears
to have taken advantage of what is obvi-
ously a valuable feature. Directional
transmitting aerials are often dealt with
in “Radio,” and in this instance R. S.
Kruse introduces a novel type. Other
articles describe “An Inexpensive 100-
watt ’Phone,” “Resonant Filter,” “Grid
Bias Modulation,” “All-Wave Line-up
Oscillator,” “A Portable Station,” “The
Television Situation,” “Improving the
Superhet” and the “WE-316-A U.H.F.
Midget Triode.” There are 10 issues of
"Radio” annually, August and September
issues being omitted, and the subscrip-
tion, through The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney, is now 16s. 6d.
It should be noted that subscriptions
cannot be started with back issues.
* * * *
A.W.A. Valve Co. announces an Aus-
tralian-designed duo-diode pentode valve
for battery receivers. This is intended
to replace the 185, which has been used
now for some time, but which suffers
from low-stage gain and insufficient
screening between the diodes and the
amplifier unit. The new valve is the
Radiotron IK6, which has a filament
drawing 2 volts 0.12 ampere, and is a
companion to the very popular types
IC4 and ID4. Since the IK6 is fitted
with a six-pin base, the control grid being
taken to the top cap, it may be used to
replace the 185, provided that the requi-
site connection to the control grid and
screen grid be made, the other electrodes
remaining as in the 185. When operated
with the screen tied to the plate the IK6
has an amplification factor only slightly
below that of the 185, and may be used
to replace a 185 with only minor modi-
fications so as to eliminate the I.F. volt-
age on the audio side. A further appli-
cation of the IK6 is as a driver valve for
the 19 Class-B stage. In this application
the characteristics of the IK6 are ideal
for power output slightly over one watt,
the sensitivity being almost double that
of the 30 when used in a similar applica-
tion. The plate current as a driver is
only two milliamps., which is the lowest
possible for a driver sufficient to fully
excite the 19.
The Q. and A. Column.
ft) Why don’t you ran a constructional
article on building a vibration-type B elimi-
nator ? (2) Could 1 use a Ford coil without
alteration ? (3) Is half-wave rectification satis-
factory ? (4) I have a 230 valve. Would this
be of any use ? —457.
(1) Any such eliminator described would
necessarily be of an experimental nature, as
any vibrator made up from an induction coil
or buzzer cannot compare electrically or
mechanically with the commercial product as
used in the latest receivers employing vibrators.
A diagram appeared in B. 15/7/’36 showing
the use of a 71A as half-wave rectifier in con-
junction with a buzzer vibrator and a trans-
former. (2) No. (3) Only for certain applica-
tions such as small portable transmitters. (4|
No.


**SILVER
£OG£'»
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service •
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
Si
WJ.
&
S<€
&
&
Aljauqeis
useless unless accurate
-worse, it is misleading
Accurate recording is the duty of a tyre gauge.
There is one gauge you can always depend on—
the KISMET. Behind its manufacture is 41
years’ experience in pneumatic engineering. It
is made hy craftsmen in Sheffield, England, and
every gauge is subjected to five major tests
during production to ensure accuracy.
Handsomely finished and clearly numbered in
individual 11b. units on wide, flat surfaces.
Complete in neat leather wallet.
Test your Tyres with a
IKIISMIET
TYRE GAUGE
Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BROS., LTD.,
Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The Steering Column.
IMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE OF THE
NEW LA SALLE.
COMFORT AND STABILITY PRONOUNCED FEATURES.
BY FRED BERRY.
BUILT in 4he same factory as the VB, Vl2 and Vl6 Cadillac
and passing the same high standards of precision in work-
manship, the 1936 La Salle, offered at a much lower price than
hitherto, exactly fulfils the requirements of that group of
motorists which desires a luxury vehicle at moderate capital
outlay.
The car is designed to provide maximum passenger comfort
both in suspension and in the quality and style of interior fittings
and upholstery. In the chassis and mechanical details, metal
has been freely used wherever deemed necessary, as indicated
by heavy gross weight, which promises a potential life of very
long duration and further provides the occupants with riding
qualities impossible to secure by any other means.
The eight - cylinders -in - line L-head
motor, with bore of Sin. and stroke of
4|in., is mounted in the chassis on com-
pressed rubber bearers, three-point sus-
pension being used. Piston displacement is
248 cub. in.; maximum brake horse-
power, 105 at 3600 r.p.m. ; standard com-
pression ratio, 6.75 to 1 ; R.A.C. rating,
28.8 h.p.
Cylinder block and
upper half of crank-
case are a single cast-
ing of high-grade
nickel-iron alloy, pro-
viding excellent wear-
ing qualities, equal ex-
pansion and maxi-
mum strength.
Cylinder walls are
triple-honed to a
mirror finish, thereby
reducing the time re-
quired to thoroughly
run-in the wearing
surfaces. Crankcase is
reinforced with full-
length cast webs on
each side. Cylinder
head of cast-iron is
detachable, combus-
tion chamber being
designed to avoid
detonation when using
standard fuels.
A new type of
T-slot anodised alu-
minium piston is used, the two vertical
slots on opposite sides regulating heat
Knee-action, independent front-wheel
suspension, showing sturdy construction
of working parts.
flow, making expansion more uniform
under varying load conditions, and re-
ducing slap when cold.
Two compression and two oil-retain-
ing rings are used, all located above the
gudgeon-pin.
Connecting rods are of I-section, rifle-
drilled to provide pressure lubrication to
gudgeon-pin bearings, and are fitted with
babbitt-lined, precision-type removable
big-end bearings.
Graceful and beautifully proportioned front end of the new La Salle.
The five-bearing crankshaft is a steel
forging with eight counterweights, is
fully compensated and balanced, and to
further ensure smooth running has a
vibration dampener fitted to the front
end.
Main bearings are placed so that all
pistons may be withdrawn from below,
thus reducing service costs and facilitat-
ing overhaul.
Cooling system has been redesigned,
the water pump being larger and
heavier than before. A single moulded-
rubber elbow between pump and radiator
eliminates two hose connections. Ther-
mostatic control through a copper tube
(instead of a spring-loaded valve) is used
during the warming-up process. Radiator
is of Harrison V-type, with copper core.
Side-by-side valves are of heat-resist-
ing silichrorae steel, seats being cut
at 45deg. Valve seatings are directly
cooled by large water jackets. Tappets
are of a new type, designed to minimise
noise and prevent scoring or pitting.
The La Salle crankcase is ventilated
by a positive system which removes
wafer vapor and minimises oil dilution.
Air pressure is built up within the crank-
case by the action of the fan through a
port, and exhausted through a pipe be-
neath the engine tray.
The camshaft is of case-hardened steel,
the cam profile being designed to give
quiet valve operation. Drive is by silent
chain.
Fuel tank is suspended between the
rear dumb irons, and holds 15 gallons.
Through air-cooled external pipe lines
running outside the frame members,
fuel is drawn by a mechanically-
operated pump to a Stromberg dual
downdraught carburettor. Fuel pump
is of new design, having a large vacuum
diaphragm capable of discharging the
requisite volume of fuel for full-throttle
operation, and also of operating both
windscreen wipers under all conditions
of speed and load. The introduction of
an oil baffle plate and outside air vent
gives enhanced protection against
diaphragm trouble during sustained high-
speed driving.
Induction system includes every proven
device whereby the operator may be
relieved of worry. The inlet manifold
is designed to ensure an equal distance
of travel of gas mixture from carburettor
to any of the eight cylinders, thus ensur-
ing even power impulses regardless of
throttle opening. Of particular interest
is the triple-range choke control, the
master control, located on the dash,
being within easy reach of the driver.
This ingenious device provides the
operator with three distinct methods of
carburettor control: (1) Manual control,
(2) automatic choke, (3) suspended
choke.
Under normal conditions the dash con-
trol is placed in a midway position, in
which case the choke opening, whether
for starting up or in touring, is controlled
and governed by a thermostat linked to
a butterfly valve. Should the driver pre-
fer he may operate the choke control en-
tirely by hand by pulling the dash con-
trol right out. The third position, with
the control pushed in, cuts out all choke
action entirely. This provision is im-
portant, particularly in starting up when
Cross-section of the sturdy, newly-
designed differential assembly.
fuels of different grades are used. A
gauze-type air-cleaner, intake silencer and
flame arrestor is fitted to the carburettor
intake.
Lubrication of the engine is by full-
pressure system, oil being delivered to
all main, connecting-rod, camshaft and
gudgeon-pin bearings through channels
cast or drilled in the various units, while
a floating-type of relief valve is incor-
porated in the system to compensate for
variation in pressure.
The electrical system is six volt with
separate units, the heavy-duty “peak-
load” type generator not only maintain-
ing a constant charging rate throughout
the entire speed range, but also graduat-
ing its output automatically so that
the charging rate varies from five
to twenty amperes, depending upon the
state of charge of the battery and the
accessories in operation at any particular
time. Battery overcharge is thus impos-
sible, and it is unnecessary in any cir-
cumstances to switch on headlights dur-
ing daylight driving.
The starter motor is operated by a
solenoid controlled by a button on the
dash, a positive engagement of starter
pinion and ring gear being made before
Ihe motor begins to turn, thus prevent-
ing damage in cases of careless or un-
skilful operation.
Ignition is by coil and battery, timer
and distributor being mounted as a unit
and driven from the camshaft by spiral
bevel gears.
Spark advance is controlled automati-
cally by vacuum from the induction mani-
fold. Both coil and distributor are
waterproof. The entire electrical system
is controlled by a thermostatic circuit
Triple-range choke control on left
instrument panel gives drivers a wide
selection in carburettor control.


USEFUL DATA ON
LA SALLE.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in
12 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h.
in top in 7 4-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second in 4 3-3 seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 23ft.
9in.
Maximum speed, 79.64 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 17.1 m.p.g.
A
m
m
8 8
AND NOW CHROMIUM
PLATED PISTON PINS
Genuine Dufor Lapped Piston Pins in both
Chromium plate and plain steel finish
covering a complete range of over 600
Oufor part numbers are now available.
Insist on the Genuine Dufor branded
product.
DULY & HANSFORD LTD
CARRINGTON ROAD HARRICKVIUE NSW
Hi/
JipHMI.
DUFOR
LAPPED PISTON PINS
breaker which automatically comes into
operation by reason of heat generated
by any current overload or short circuit.
Transmission is through a single-plate,
dry-disc type clutch with oilless throw-
out release bearing to a three-speed-and-
reverse gearbox with central change.
Gears are silent in operation on all
forward speeds and reverse, and are syn-
chronised for changing between second
and top either way. Ratios used are:
The Straight Eight La Salle motor, clutch and gear-box, with
manifold removed, showing accessibility of all important
units.
Top, direct; second, 1.70 to 1 ; low, 2.63
to 1; reverse, 2.81 to 1.
The propeller shaft is open, with two
universal joints each fitted with needle-
type roller bearings. Rear axle is semi-
(loating. Differential assembly is of ex-
ceptional strength, with spiral bevel ring
gear and pinion, the reduction ratio
being 4.55 to 1.
Chassis is of X-type construction.
Wheelbase is 120 in.; minimum ground
clearance, Sin.
Suspension is by conventional semi-
elliptic springs at the rear, completely
enclosed in metal covers and packed with
lubricant. Front shackles have rubber
bushings; rear shackles are of the
threaded type. Two-way hydraulic
shock-absorbers are used, and to secure
greater stability on corners a spring steel
stabilising bar connects both arms above
the rear axle. Knee-action, independent
front-wheel suspension is fitted.
Centre-point steering is incorporated,
the two gross rods being of equal length
and parallel to the lower forked arms,
thus assuring accurate steering geometry.
Turning circle is 39ft.
Service brakes are of the Duo-Servo
hydraulic type, the cylinders in the front-
wheel assembly being larger than those
at the rear for the purpose of equalising
braking effort at speed. The hand brake
is independently operated by levers, and
applies on rear shoes only. The hand-
brake lever has been removed from the
floorboard and is now located in an in-
verted position on the right side of the
dash. The bodywork, by Holdens, well
built and splendidly proportioned, is
mounted on the frame on 12 rubber-
fabric bearers.
Windscreen is of safety glass with
double wipers. Front seat is adjustable.
Upholstery and interior fittings and hard-
ware are of excellent quality. The in-
strument panel, neatly arranged and par-
ticularly effective, is illuminated in-
directly for night driving.
No-draught ventilation is provided in
front and rear quarter windows.
The car tested, a four-door La Salle
sedan, was driven by J. Turner, of W. H.
Lober and Co., N.S.W. distributors.
Speedometer reading was 2289; gross
weight, 38cwt. (registered weight.*
34yCWt.).
In spite of weight and long wheelbase
ihe car was manoeuvred with ease in con-
gested traffic, owing no doubt to the small
turning radius made possible by the
centre-point steering assembly.
The car cruises Comfortably at from
45 to 50 m.p.h., and at maximum speed
holds the road well, showing no disposi-
tion to “wander” even with hands off
the steering wheel. Over the rough coun-
try sections of the test course suspension
and riding qualities proved excellent.
From a speed of 15 m.p.h. a distance
of 704 yards was coasted, indicating
correct alignment and freedom of all
transmission details. Measured mile with
flying start was clocked in 45 l-ssec.,
averaging 79.64 m.p.h. Kurrajong Hill
climb, 2 1-5 miles, from a standing start,
was timed in 3rain. 17 l-ssec., a good
performance for a long wheelbase car,
and no difficulty was experienced in
negotiating the several acute bends at
speed.
Slow running over 350 yards was ac-
complished in top in
2min. 45sec., averag-
ing 4.3 m.p.h., and
an accelerated 350
yards was done in
17 l-ssec., averaging
41.8 m.p.h., indicat-
ing the flexibility of
the eight - cylinder
motor. From 10 to
30 in top took 7
4-ssec. ; 10 to 30 in
second, 4 3-ssec.;
and from a standstill
to 50 m.p.h. through
gears, 12 3-ssec.,
showing further
splendid traffic driv-
ing qualifies.
Brakes stopped the
car from 25 m.p.h.
in 23ft. 9in. The average speed, includ-
ing all tests, was 37.8 m.p.h., and petrol
consumed on the journey of 116 miles,
6gal. 6| pints, gave an average of 17.1
m.p.g. 132.5 ton miles).
"Bluetongue”; An acquaintance of
mine bought a Saxon roadster about 1911
or ’ l2 - The last time I saw it the engine
was driving a circular saw, using only
two of its cylinders, and the wheels were
doing duty on a sulky. The owner told
me ’f was s** ll in good going order when
disrated it to the sawbench, but it was
“ a hit out of date and not fast enough.”
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
C.M. (Wollongong, N.S.W.).—(I) When I
was screwing off the radiator cap of my four-
cylinder, 16-h.p. car recently the water spurted
out violently. Cause and cure ? (2) How can
I remove scratches from duco ?
(1) Symptoms indicate overheating, causing
water in the cooling system to boil. This con-
dition would be caused by weak mixture, a
slipping fan belt, incorrect timing or blocked
radiator or water passages. As the car in
question is not prone to boiling, the most likely
cause will be a blown cylinder head gasket,
allowing gases at high pressure to enter the
circulating system. (2) Depends on how deep
the scratches extend. If superficial, careful
rubbing with a cutting compound may remove
the blemish, and, of course, some of the
lacquer. Best method is to fill the cracks with
stopping putty, rub down with water paper
and spray with lacquer of similar color.
$ =!= * *
B.W.E. (Ganmain, N.S.W.).— In B. 8/4/’36
a process was mentioned for preserving exterior
finishes of lacquered bodies. Can it be obtained L
locally ?
No, the car would have to be sent to Sydney.
* * * *
R.F.O’N. (Yagobie, N.S.W.).— Is it possible
in any way to run a motor fitted with battery-
and-coil ignition when the coil has burned
out ? If so, how ?
Not without rewinding the coil, and this
requires expert knowledge and special equip-
ment. As the coil serves to step up L.T.
current from the battery to H.T. current for
use at the plugs, it is obvious the ignition
would not function if connected directly to the
battery.
* * * *
E.P.H. (Merbein, Vic.). —My ’32 model four-
cylinder, magneto-ignition car is becoming
harder to start when cranked from cold and
sometimes when warm. Magneto and timing
have been checked. The choke has to be
pulled right out and floods the carburettor,
and once started it has to be pushed right in
again to get the engine to idle smoothly.
Throttle of the Solex carburettor appears worn.
(1) What is the cause of hard starting ? (2)
Can you recommend a more suitable make of
carburettor or should I get a new one? (3)
Where can I get information about changing to
coil-and-battery ignition, using the magneto
as a distributor ?
(1) A worn throttle spindle, allowing excess
air to enter the mixture, together with, possible
other air leaks in the induction system, plus
a weak magneto, is the usual cause of hard
starting in your type of motor. (2) No. The
carburettor is quite suitable and requires only
a general overhaul and rebushing of the throttle
spindle. (3) Conversion can be done. The
chief difficulty lies in designing a suitable con-
nection between make and break of magneto
and coil. It is also advisable to change
platinum points to tungsten. Try Machin and
Co., 535 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
G.M. (Mount Gambier, 5.A.).-(l) My 'll
model car fades away when turning a corner.
Cause and cure ? (2) Universal joint makes
a squeaky noise when starting up and occa-
sionally when running. Cause and cure ?
(1) Impossible to diagnose trouble with such
scanty information. If heat tube in carburettor
is burned out the motor will falter if the foot
is taken momentarily off the throttle. (2)
Apparently the tail shaft is out of alignment.
The new universal joint should have been
fitted with eight thou, clearance.
* * * *
C.C.McL. (Toowoomba, Q.). —(1) / have
been advised that the car named uses excessive
quantities of oil after being operated over
10,000 miles and also that it is susceptible to
trouble in the differential assembly. Is this so ?
(2) What is the approximate cash price for a
'35 V 8 roadster or sedan in Sydney ? (3) In
what order would you place the four cars
named for rough country work ?
(1) Defects such as are indicated are not
characteristic and only occur in isolated cases,
probably owing to carelessness in operation or
lack of care in the initial running-in period.
(2) Roadster £225, sedan £265. (3) A matter
for individual selection, as each of the cars
mentioned has given reliable service under such
conditions.
* & # $
Surry (Melbourne).—/ am getting only 14
m.p.g. from my ’36 model eight-cylinder car,
although claims were made before purchase of
19-20 m.p.g. The car has done 2000 miles
and oil has been changed on three occasions.
My usual runs are of about 30 miles, during
which it is necessary to stop and start fre-
quently, sometimes as many as six times in
eight miles. Is there any way of bettering
this fuel consumption ?
Your car, on straight runs, driven at a
reasonable speed of, say, 30 to 40 m.p.h.,
should do at least 20 m.p.g. Excessive con-
sumption is caused by two factors —first, the
motor is not properly run in and is still stiff;
secondly, the frequent halts use an excessive
amount of fuel. Under such conditions of
operation it. is impossible to determine the
normal consumption on continuous runs.


“THE AGE ’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in,
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent. public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St,
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St,
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—-News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100 % of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers;
let
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from 11.I 1 . A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaxier House, Melbourne; Advt,
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
in ADVERTISING
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Eet. 1842), the only daily in L,aun-
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
Full Information. Copies, Advertising: Rates from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
YOUR MONEY
That’s why GAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
He pawed the ground once, then neighed to the
mares.
From the centre of the group of mares a horse
clothed in flame forced his way through. Bluff Downs
held his head high and arched his tail. He raked
billows of dust, and clarion-clear in its challenge his
ringing neigh echoed over the plain. The wind rippled
his mane and sprayed his tail; the rising sun bathed
his chestnut coat in flashes of fire.
Rory advanced twenty yards. He lifted each big
hoof and placed it carefully, walked with a stilty
action as he held his great muscles drawn for im-
mediate action.
Bluff Downs stepped out to meet him ; stepped
daintily, mincingly, the muscles of his crest corded
and bunched in great knots.
The stallions faced each other, standing not more
than thirty feet apart. Rory was a battle-scarred
warrior who knew all the rules of war and all the
tricks of a scrap. Further, he was panting with
desire and swollen with the urge of conquest. Bluff
Downs had never fought another stallion in his life.
He had chivvied occasional inoffensive geldings with-
out the will to resist and he had lorded it over his
mares.
Rory pawed the ground with heavy strokes, send-
ing great clouds of dust streaming, over his body. He
changed his action, and the other fore foot raked
billows above him. Bluff Downs pounded the earth,
accepting the challenge.
Suddenly both horses stopped. For five seconds
they stood, eyes reddened and flashing lips snarling,
and bared grinning teeth.
Bluff Downs lowered his head and sniffed the
ground. He. snorted in great , gusts which raised twin
spirals of dust to his ears. He wheeled and spun, and
lashed in anger at the spurts his breath had raised.
Rory pecked at a twig lying on the ground. He
took it between his lips and he nibbled it with his
teeth. He played with it before tossing it aside ; then
he pawed the dust again.
Bluff Downs advanced to meet his challenger.
With high-held head, arched neck and sweeping tail,
with stertorous snorts and heaving flanks, with ears
prickled and muscles drawn, mincingly and daintly
he went to battle. He knew—he must have known —
death rode in the air and destruction hovered above
his shoulders.
As eagerly, if not so daintily, Rory advanced.
He may not have had a creed handed him by long
lineage. He was only a horse, a stallion with all the
instinct and desires of his kind. That instinct was
to take what he sought, if need be, to fight to the
death.
They came together, slowly, watchfully, alert and
poised. Each horse had his neck arched and his head
bowed until his nostrils were almost touching his own
chest. Their ears overlapped as they brought their
nostrils together.
Bluff Downs swung away with a jerk and reared.
Rory stood still. Bluff Downs dropped to the earth
again. There was an etiquette of battle. The prelimi-
naries must be complete before war commenced.
Bluff Downs touched nostrils with Rory again, each
flank heaving to the deep-drawn breaths.
Then deep and hoarse and hateful Rory, yelled,
his great voice smothering the shriller neigh of ’the
smaller stallion. On the instant, while their breaths
and voices were mingling, both horses reared. The
preliminaries were complete. The battle had begun.
AS they reared each horse pawed blindly, their fore
legs interlocking in the effort, and each, snakelike,
warded off, the striking teeth were parried, hot breaths
mingling and hoarse screams sounding together.
They dropped to the ground, spun on front legs,
and with lightning swiftness lashed with grass-skim-
ming kicks.
They wheeled again and charged. The impact
brought Rory up abruptly and sent Bluff Downs
reeling. Rory shook in his stride —nothing more-
and like a stabbing flame followed his staggering
opponent. Bluff Downs dived under that charge, and
his teeth sank in Rory’s fore leg. He bunched him-
self, his muscles creaking, and desperately he strove
to lift and throw. ■
The other horse was too heavy, too massive and
too strong. He merely swung his head, and with a
tearing chop ripped the
chestnut from shoulder
to chest. A great gash
showed, a stream of
red pulsed and flowed
to the ground.
Rory rushed again.
But the smaller horse
was too quick. His
charge was complete
before Rory had well
commenced. He swung
in like a dazzling
streak. His teeth
chopped together on
Rory’s ribs. He jerked
back, torn flesh and
writhing sinews trailing
from his teeth. In the
same action he spun
and lashed with his hind heels, thunderbolts which
took the big fellow fairly under the belly.
Bluff Downs reared again, struck and held with
his teeth. He took Rory along the crest and worried
as a dog shakes a rat.
The mares watched. Perhaps they knew they
were the prize.
Bluff Downs broke free. Like the snap of a
flicking whip he darted in, raking Rory’s ribs with
his tearing fangs. As his teeth clicked together he
spun and lashed with his hind hooves. He drove with
all the venom, hate, implacable desire to kill, and all
the weight and strength he had!
The bigger horse merely quivered, steadied him-
self and came at the charge again. Bluff Downs
screamed, ranged up beside his foe, pounding hard
and pounding often.
Rory was unused to this style of fighting. His
confidence was shaken slightly, his temper frayed.
He went berserk and roared in his fury. He forced
the smaller horse back, leaning over him and pressing
him down with his weight.
Bluff Downs faltered as a pebble turned under
his hoof. He tripped, stumbled, with a wriggling
action sought to break clear.
Rory swooped. His teeth closed on the chestnut's
wither. He tore throiigh skin, through flesh ; his teeth
found bone! He lifted Bluff Downs from the ground,
shook'him, swung him.
'> . W . v. v f ■ v
Rory’s teeth closed on the piece he had ‘
He shook again, and with a snap Bluff DoV^ is
dropped, a full mouth-size piece clean taken from ri
pouring wither. Before he had touched the
Rory wheeled and sent both heels ripping under n
belly.
In a crumpled heap Bluff Downs fell to t | ne
ground. He gasped for breath, struggled convulsively.
Over his heart, where the last kick had landed, °J iC
jagged bit of a broken rib stood out clear of his body -
Under the torn skin and pulped flesh two other ri -
ends stuck upright, and from a puncture where the
broken points entered the chest slow blood was
flowing.
RORY turned to the mares. He called, walked
towards them, whinneying his love message t
them. He extended his nostrils to touch those of tne
mare Sarah, who came to him.
Bluff Downs staggered to his feet. His tail hung
listlessly, dragging between his hocks. His loins were
arched. His breath came in gulps. Slowly the blood
dripped from him, and he moved swiftly, unevenly
and uncertainly when he walked.
Sarah squealed again, and Bluff Downs lifted
his low-hung head. Rory yelled once more, and
Sarah’s soft squeal, which preceded complete sur-
render, sounded to the stricken horse.
Bluff Downs charged! In a whirlwind of passion
he came to the attack. He reared, and in his madness
the greater strength of the other horse wilted before
him. He screamed, striking, tearing and stabbing.
He fastened his teeth in Rory’s wither. He shook
and worried, and the other horse stood firm as a rock
beneath his shakings. Bluff Downs reared again. He
smashed with his fore hooves. He dropped to the
ground as Rory reared and his teeth closed on the
big fellow’s fore leg.
Rory squealed in fear. He lunged across to
catch that elusive wraith and Bluff Downs slipped
under the attack and reared again. He gripped Rory’s
wither, slightly behind the apex, and the big horse
cringed as those stabbing teeth sank in. He wriggled
to get away, swinging his hindquarters.
As he swung a smashing hoof struck fairly on his
loin-coupling. Something cracked, broke. Rory
dropped helpless to the earth, his hindquarters trailing
behind him, and with a jar Bluff Downs’ hooves came
to the ground as the horse sank beneath him.
Rory attempted to rise, his front legs stuck in
front of him, his hindquarters flaccid and limp.
Screaming his hate, Bluff Downs charged again. He
battered the horse to the ground, pounded him, ripping
with his teeth and smashing with his hooves. Rory
struggled, wilted, sank to the ground and lay supine.
Bluff Downs turned to his brood. He was sick,
sore, stricken to death, and perhaps he knew it. Also
he knew, and this was his creed: He must assert his
breeding. He owned that mob. He had to assert
that ownership. He moved about them. He held his
head high, extended his nostrils to Cascade.
Even as he caressed the mare there came a sharp
tightening in his chest. He fought for his breath.
He reared, struggling against that suffocation. As the
blood gushed to his throat he fell at her feet.
For a few seconds he struggled, heaving in great
strains for small gasps of air. Then, with a final con-
vulsion, he lay still.
{To be. continued next week.)


ķ
Eulogises Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
as a Remedy for Lumbago and Sciatica
Brigadier Walter S. Solomon, of the Salvation Army Territorial
Headquarters Staff, Sydney, is widely known and highly respected,
not only for his Army work in Australia but also as a Padre in
France during the Great War, where he served for well over three
years. With his characteristic desire to assist others at ail times, he
has sent the following letter relating his experiences with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills while suffering from Lumbago and
Sciatica;—
The Salvation Army,
140 Elizabeth Street,
Dear Sirs, Sydney.
1 understand that you are the agents for Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills.
I want to tell you of my unbounded confidence in them.
About seven years ago I was asked to try them, as this was the only
medicine my friend had in the house, and as it was late on Saturday night
and no other remedy was available. I tried them. I was suffering from
Lumbago and Sciatica, to which I have been a sufferer for the last 24 years.
The next day I was much better, and after a few days lost all my pain.
Whenever 1 get a backache I fly to these pills, and every time I get relief
in 24 hours, and in a few days am quite free from pain.
I never travel now without a bottle in my bag.
They are worth their weight in gold, and when you realise what
wonderful pain removers they are I marvel at the cost being only 1 /3 a bottle,
I am voluntarily sending you this testimonial, and you are at liberty to
use it in whatever way you like. If it will help some other sufferer to get the
relief that I have got I shall be very happy.
Yours truly,
(Signed) WALTER $. SOLOMON.
The old idea that rheumatic conditions are caused by Uric Acid is being discredited,
and the opinion is now held they are caused by failure of Nature’s chemical processes,
particularly in the small intestines and the liver, which causes toxins (poisons) and
dangerous by-products to enter the blood stream. These toxins affect the muscles, nerves,
and joints, and movement becomes painful.
In other words, medical authorities are coming to the conclusion that the way to combat
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica and such rheumatic conditions is to keep all the organs of
digestion and elimination in a state of healthy, vigorous functioning. Regular free bowel
movements and an active liver are necessary to relieve the strain on the kidneys.
Bone Liniment
Dr.MORSES
k
PILLS
ANADE IM AUSTRALIA
has proved of great benefit in thousands of such cases. If you suffer from a rheumatic
condition, which is often indicated by Lumbago and Sciatica, a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills is recommended, combined with an outward application of Comstock’s Nerve and'
Bone Liniment.
WORMS
Dangerous Parasites Cause
Havoc in the System
i Worms are parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intended
to nourish the body. The two commonest types
| of worms found in human beings are Thread
; Worms and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
i Pih Worms) are most common. They are
{ about One-quarter inch long, resembling a piece
| of thread. They live in the lower bowel in
considerable numbers, particularly in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
| shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
i vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
I All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs are con-
! tinually discharged in the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
I by flies, on the hair of household pets, in raw
food, in drinking water or merely by contact
! with earth in which they lie
Symptoms.—The symptoms of worm infec-
i tion are many and often obscure. Itching of the
j nose is one of the most common indications
| of pin worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
i upset or swollen stomach, desire to vomit,
| voracious appetite and craving for strange
1 foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grinding teeth, a bluish took
about the eyes, nervousness and irritability.
In children convulsions sometimes occur. The
danger to the person infected by worms is not
so much in the symptoms themselves as in
certain results which may follow. The continual
irritation of the digestive tract may cause
a number of digestive disorders. The strain
on the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
the natural -safeguards of the body against
disease are lowered and grave ailments may
be contracted.
Alany physicians now believe that worms
are. often a cause of appendicitis, It is
certain that worms are sometimes found in
the appendix.
Treatment. —For home treatment it is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and follow it with a laxa-
tive so that the worms and eggs will be ex-
pelled in the waste matter. Several treatment-
should be taken to ensure that any eggs which
may remain will not start the trouble anew.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
made lor just one purpose—to promote the
destruction of round and pin worms. A Specific
Medicine, they act on the worms only, and
can be given in cases where the presence of
worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
MIRPIL
The Ideal Skin Lotion.
Jn addition to its excellent pooling and
soothing properties in cases of Windburn and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Smeared on the face and hands, it keeps
away mosquitoes.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on
the soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post paid upon receipt of postal notes
or stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington. N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
If writing, mention this paper.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĸ
TO “THE BULLETIN,’’
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand . should send 30 /-.)
X
qX*
<JA>H
v <v .lP
'C\&\ < £-\ * c <& V- t o'^ r
v<®' V<^° e V>
>° > me‘ ,s* e . • ■ ...
\0
.**
a" 6
$
#' s ’
o v
v
o l
.••■ >*■
■■■ •••■


m
%
.45!
m
m
m
m
mm
' ' V
A
***$$%
1. r* is*
-
.... , ■
rrr 55^
• - •••■,. ;
M
wzZ& : .
m ■■■■
w
m
v.
m
. j.
' ■■
iiii
:
U
%*-■■■•.
imm-f
■%:%
W
■
Vi/\4 ’ ' v "- : '
is®
A Present with a Future
The World’s Best Safety
Inserted by the ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.. Sole Agents for' Australia and the Islands of the Pacific,
8a CastWeagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
InferstjUt: (,t'l liKNSl.AM' —Butl* 1 UiotlW.~ (Aiist.) ’ Pty..'Ltd., Croeh Stmjt, T’-nsban./.
(' . ‘ W K ST Eli N .vL-sTKAUA Harris, Scarfs and handover, Lid., v Hay Hreet, Port jo
