

NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
AUSTRALIA
,
i rn
, :
m
ill
1111
m
im
E
M
T
mm
■ill
: :
mm
liste
*• *
Bill
ii
-jd
3
m
■■■■■■■
■
■
m
List of Manufactures
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIC IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P* BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
'QUALITY PRODUCTS"
all made in Australia
1— Loading Iron Ore by Electric
Shovel, Iron Knob. S.A.
2— Wilputte Coke Ovens Plant.
3 — Blast Furnace Plant — capa-
city 14.QQG tons per week.
4— Plate Mill.
5 — Merchant Bars and Sections
in Stock Yard.
Ifie BROKEN mUPnCH™
MINE OWNERS, SHIP OWNERS, IRON AND STEEL
MANUFACTURERS AND COLLIERY PROPRIETORS
Offices
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London
Brisbane— Steel Products (Queensland) Pty., Ltd.
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W), Iron Knob (SA), Pevonport (Tasmania). Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
AN INVITATION
IS EXTENDED TO
CUSTOMERS TO VISIT
OUR WORKS
AT NEWCASTLE
The Bulletin
“Island Heritage ” Begins
Vol. 57.—N0. 2916.
Wednesday, January 1, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Storu Writing
yj IVI firt HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 liussell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID -
Please send, without ■ obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
EXPLAINING
JOAN OF
ARC
To the several
score attempts at
interpreting or
depicting Joan of
Arc, from the 30-
odd chronicles
written in her
own day, or near it, to the quaint con-
struction of Mark Twain, the chivalrous
picture by Andrew Lang, Anatole
France’s brilliant robot and Bernard
popular stump oration, with the
allegedly Shakspearean vulgarisation as
a midden in the background, has been
added a notable version by Milton
Waldman.
This Joan of Arc (Longmans ; Angus
and Robertson; 18s. 6d.) is based on
the _ simplest possible thesis: that the
elusive character and mystery of Joan of
Arc can be explained through an under-
standing of the times in which she lived.
A few things the author allows to be
inexplicable— mainly the unknown girl’s
power and influence over pretty well .all
with whom she came into personal con-
tact. To explain that would be to explain
the quality of genius. It does not admit
of explanation, or need it. All that mat-
ters in regard to it is the fact, which
requires no demonstration: she did have
that power, and used it. And even this,
though it may best be left along with all
the rest of the irrational in history and
human behavior, can be readily enough
understood even while admitting that to
explain it is impossible.
With good sense Mr. Waldman leaves
it to take care of itself. Her voices
and visions, against which so much
scepticism has been sniffed and to which
so much simple credulity has been ex-
tended, make a matter, however, that
every biographer of her has to face and
explain if he can. Shaw, like most when
they come to this hurdle, is clearly un-
comfortable. The most he can make of
it is that there are people whose imagina-
tion is so vivfd that when they have an
idea it comes to them as an audible
voice, sometimes uttered v by a visible
figure. Some of these people are mad
as hatters, some are sane ; and Joan of
Arc was one of the sane ones. A
handy synopsis, but scarcely a masterly
exposition.
Mr. Waldman makes no such shuffle
of evasion. First, he conveys the nature
of the general setting in which Joan was
bom and spent her childhood to the
age of 13, when she saw her first Vision
and heard its Voice. Having an eye for
significant and causal detail, he naturally
dismisses without theorising such domes-
tic small beer as her father’s threat to
drown her if she went off with the
soldiers. Shaw, with the embracing logic
of the soapbox, saw in that a sign that
she was militaristically inclined virtually
from the cradle. “Joan must therefore
as a child have wanted to run away and
be a soldier.” By the same logic it is
demonstrable that, because Billy Smith’s
mother threatens to welt him if he goes
down on the wharf fishing, Billy Smith
has an obsession to own a fish-shop.
But stranger effects than that are pos-
sible when history is approached with
the mind already made up ; the play, in
fact, already written, and a reputation
for preface-writing to be upheld.
Mr. Waldman, however, is pursuing
an inquiry, not fabricating an argu-
ment. His idea of the significant is
the young girl’s exceptional piety,
noticed even at a time e of general
religious tension without parallel in
history, when the cult of saints was a
terrific reality, saturating every activity
of human life, so that wherever one
turned were images, and nothing was
done, from eating a morsel of food to
completing a most important transaction,
without propitiating a particular saint.
Then “men and women impoverished
themselves to join in the thousand pro-
cessions that ceaselessly wound over the
miserable roads of Europe to one of the
countless places made holy by a particu-
lar effigy or relic.” Firing a natural piety
exceptional even in such circumstances
as those would have been the tales told
by the begging friars and vagabond
soldiers, who, passing on the Langres-
Verdun highroad which ran through
Domremy, often had lodging at the
farmhouse. From these she would have
had the tales of the saints and martyrs
and an understanding of what was then
embraced in the name of chivalry. Of
what was going on in France she had
clear enough idea from what happened
in her own neighborhood, When armed
bands stole cattle and fired the* houses,
and the peasants, herself among them,
fled before fire and sword.
Those people prayed intensely to be
safeguarded from such troubles, and Joan,
as has been seen, was a notable prayer
even then. That alone would be suffi-
cient preparation for a child mind —sus-
ceptible to such things now as then —
for the reception of voices and visions.
Additionally, it was a hot summer’s day
when Joan, standing dreaming in her
father’s garden, heard the Voice for the
first time.
....how many quite ordinary people
have not had strange illusions in those
conditions. The sun was blazing down, the
sound of the church-bells would just have
died away against the neighboring hills
(the experience is still to be ' had in
Domremy). The little girl, standing rapt
and still in the gardep, heard something
oddly personal in the musical echo, and
in the dazzling light her eyes discerned a
vague and radiant outline. Her mind
was filled with the images of those daily
companions from a heaven so real that
beside it the world round her often had •
by comparison only the quality of a
dream; anyone who has ever studied the
mind of a deeply religious child will
readily understand the texture of hers.
That was the first vision. The subse-
quent ones her biographer explains with
the assumption that she would have tried
to repeat the experience, and succeeded
through her “will to believe.” “The very
identity of the Voices seems to support
this theory of their origin by psychologi-
cal preparation.” That she did not tell
of them —a matter that was damning at
her trial —he explains with the simple
and rational suggestion that very likely
she feared to be laughed at, scolded,
argued with in the early stages of per-
plexity, and by the time that was resolved
the Voices had become an essential part
of her an idea which anyone who
knows anything at all of children will
admit is reasonable enough.
....by every familiar test, medical and
historical, she was a healthy and rational
person. A host of mental specialists, in-
cluding some of the most famous of the
last hundred years, have tried to diagnose
her symptoms, and have concluded with
virtual unanimity that their science can
make nothing of her. They find in her
none of the classic symptoms of hallucina-
tion, hysteria or lesion of the brain; she
never identified herself with her visions
? r ]° st control of her faculties under their
influence, as does the usual ecstatic; her
heredity, so far as it is known, was
sound, her body robust, her wit keen,
her nervous composure unshakable except
tor an occasional healthy fit of temper.
Even Anatole France, who thought her
completely cracked, could get no more out
of the eminent psychiatrist, Dr. Dumas,
to whom he submitted the evidence, than
the conclusion that “by her intelligence
and will Joan remains sane and balanced,
and nervous pathology can throw little
light on her soul.”
Having reduced all this admittedly dif-
ficult and debatable matter to a mani-
festation of the visionary propensities of
child psychology acting in exceptional
surroundings, the author goes on with
the business of Joan’s career—the setting
forth, the dangerous adventure through
nearly 400 miles of mostly hostile coun-
try, arrival at the castle and acceptance
there, the raising of the siege of Orleans,
the wonderful week’s campaign on the
Loire, the coronation, the capture, im-
prisonment and trial—presenting it with
a good, though not overdone, sense of
the spectacular and a fine descriptive
style.
It is an excellent example of the sort
of biographical writing whose authors
pay as much heed to form, pattern and
completeness of story as do the fiction
writers. The long, tedious, mannered
method, broken down by work far too
flippant for historical purpose, has given
way to this clear, concise statement,
which has humor in it without facetious-
ness, and solidity without being stolid.
It may not be abiding, lacking the quality
of a lofty or a throbbing prose style.
But as entertainment, in the best sense
of the word, it is supremely good.
C. M.
The Cinema —
Whither
Heeded?
The world
moves ever more
rapidly. One day
of modern
Europe is better
than fifty cycles
of old Cathay.
The “galloping tintypes,” a scientific
curiosity just a little better than the
zoetrope in the late eighties of last cen-
tury, had become a profitable means of
public entertainment by 1895. By 1928
the cinema entertainment business had
attained colossal proportions in the
U.S.A.; respectable dimensions in every
other civilised or semi-civilised country.
Then came the talkie, and now, just a
scant, seven years further on, the sub-
stitution of natural color for monocrome
has been proved possible, and in a score
of film laboratories skilled technicians
are experimenting with stereoscopy.
In A Grammar of the Film (Faber and
Faber ; copy from Angus and Robert-
son; 155.) Raymond Spottiswoode sur-
veys briefly these historical developments,
and then proceeds to discuss the future
of moving pictures as an art form.
Unfortunately for the Australian reader
very few of the examples of high filmic
art quoted by Spottiswoode in elucida-
tion of his theories have been made avail-
able for exhibition in this country. The
work of the Russian directors Eisen-
stein, Pudovkin and Dojenko, being
Soviet propaganda, is probably on the
censors’ index; Pabst (German) and
Rene Clair (French) are names un-
known to Australian cinema audiences ;
the series of films made for the British
G.P.O. by John Grierson and Stuart
Legg is known only by repute. The
Russians, placed by Spottiswoode at the
head of the procession, developed, he
says, a tremendously effective technique
partly because they were very short of
film and had to “abandon diffuse arid
circuitous methods of narration.” They
became, in short, spiritual brothers of
J..F. Archibald.
Charlie Chaplin gets praise for some of
his silents —particularly “City Lights”—
but “from the standpoint of film tech-
nique his work is fairly elementary. His
knowledge of gesture and significant de-
tail is indeed outstanding, but his sense
of construction and his placing of the
camera owe little to the special proper-
ties of the film.” Disney’s sound-syn-
chronised cartoons (and here this com-
mentator is heartily in accord with the
author) receive high praise. Disney is
acclaimed as “the one respect in which
the influence of American films has been
wholly good and above the competition
of other countries.” But it isn’t fair to
give all the credit to Disney. Australian
cartoonist O’Sullivan was in the field
with Felix the Cat years before Disney
was heard of.
Among recent British films only one
is singled out for mention —“Private Life
of Henry VIII.”- —but this “owed nothing
of value to the cinema. The fact that
it was actually not adapted from a play
served only to show that it would be
better adapted into one.” The line of
criticism there is a little difficult to
follow, and in subsequent chapters the
author, using the language of abstract
philosophy, becomes at times more than
a little obscure.
But he frequently reaches solid ground.
On the text of “The whole visible world
and the whole world of sound is at the
command of the film director,” he
observes that “such a wealth of material
is not at the.disposal of any other art,
and it constitutes the greatest danger to
the status of the film.” He wants direc-
tors to attain a grasp on the “form and
functions of the cinema” which will deter
them from useless branches while leav-
ing them the “utmost freedom to express
themselves in proper paths.”
As to the new riches it is proposed
to place at film directors’ disposal—color
and stereoscopic projection—Spottis-
woode is quite obviously of opinion that
these will not really be aids, but handi-
caps ; and most people who have had
occasion to study film aesthetics will be
inclined to agree with him to the extent
of a feeling that additions to cinema
resources, have come along too rapidly
to be assimilated. Also, it is possible to
agree unreservedly with Spottiswoode
when he pleads for something in the
nature of a. Little Theatre movement in
cinema. The commercial entertainment
film is made under a compulsion to
achieve immediate popular success—and
in nine cases out of ten it imitates some-
body else’s latest hit. There is little
scope for experiment. One failure and
a new avenue is closed. But, as Spottis-
woode points out, there exists an audi-
ence for attempts at better things, and
he thinks that world-wide audience is
now large enough to make the more
intelligent production of films a pro-
position that will at least pay fair interest
on capital.
A. D. W.
A. Thames -
side Saga
Never, we say
to ourselves, has
there been such a
half - century as
that which
spanned 1885 and
1935, and this feeling, in which wonder,
pride and (among the oldsters) not a
little regret are mingled, is continually
finding expression in contemporary
writings.
,A writer who marches through part
of the period (1885-1917) with a confi-
dent step, a mature mind and a young
heart is G. U. Ellis, whose novel There
Goes the Queen (Cassell ; 7s. 6d., from
Dymock’s) is of such good literary crafts-
manship that after 647 substantially-filled
pages of it one is sorry to have to say
good-bye to people who have become
old friends. It is the story of a middle-
class English family, the Cromes —six
brothers, each of whom had a hobby. The
fortunes of all are followed, but it is
upon James Crome, the eldest, his son
Brock and Brock’s sweetheart Hortense
Kepple that the most loving care has
been lavished.
The background is the pageant of his-
tory and politics ; the thread that runs
through the whole fabric is the old
paddle-steamer The Queen, well known
to the Cromes, who were Thames-side
dwellers. The Queen became a gunboat
in the Great War and was sunk in a
Mespot. affray. One is half-led to expect
that the same note of tragedy will close
{Continued on page 4.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns’
Determined to make this year better than the last?
Then you can do no better than equip yourself
with these sturdy and efficient farming aids
zxc
Planet Jr. Orchard and Universal Cultivator
No. 41 Planet Jr. Orchard and Universal Cultivator is built to
combine strength, lightness, adjustability and efficiency to the
fullest extent in one tool.
The Steel Wheels are low and entirely enclosed by the frame; they
are adjustable thirty to forty inches apart.
Without the Extensions it cuts four feet in width and has seven stiff
steel standards, carrying x 10 inch bevelled steels, specially
hardened.
With the Extensions it cuts six feet six inches, carrying eleven teeth,
and the frame can be changed to cut any width from 6J down to
4 feet in width.
The Teeth. The regular equipment is 2\ x 10 inch reversible steels,
but other width steels, sweeps, furrowers, irrigation steels, and alfalfa
steels can be used on this machine.
The Tree and Fruit Shield is placed on the right-hand side, to be
used next the tree row to prevent injury to fruit and limbs.
The Standards are adjustable up, down and sidewise. Made of
heavy, high-carbon steel.
No. 41 Machine with two-tooth extensions. Regular Equipment:
II 2\ x 10 inch steels. Wheel Adjustment: 30 to 40 inches.
Width of Cut, 6ft. 6in. Packed Weight, 4741 b.
No. 4 ID—Without extensions. Width of Cut, 4ft. Packed Weight.
3841 b.
PLANET Jr.
HORSE HOE and
CULTIVATOR
£5/12/6
No. 8 Planet Jr. Horse Hoe and Cultivator. 831 b. Arranged as
used for ploughing toward the row and for hilling. Equipment: Four 3 x
inch cultivator steels; one 4xB inch cultivator steel; two 6in. hillers;
one 7in. shovel; lever wheel (steel) ; lever expander; dept'h regulator.
PLANET Jr.
Twelve-tooth
Harrow, Cultivator
and Pulverizer
p £5/12/6
No. 90—Planet Jr. Twelve-tooth Harrow, Cultivator and Pulverizer. Com-
plete with steel lever wheel and pulverizer. Weight, 741 b.
No. 90B—Less Pulverizer. Weight, 661 b.
rr.
PLANET Jr. 25 Combined
Hill and Drill Seeder
£612/6
No. 25—Planet' Jr. Combined Hill and Drill Seeder, Double- and Single-wheel Hoe,
Cultivator and Plough. Holds 2J quarts. Weight, packed, 611 b. Net, 471 b. Equip-
ment: One pair of 6in. oil-tempered hoes; four oil-tempered cultivator teeth; one
pair oil-tempered ploughs; two leaf guards; one marker.
PLANET Jr. 4 Combined
Hill and Drill Seeder
£5/7/6
V:
No. 4—Planet Jr. Combined Hill and Drill Seeder, Single-wheel Hoe, Cultivator and
Plough. Holds quarts. Steel Driving Wheel. Weight, packed, 501 b. Net, 371 b.
Equipment: One pair of 6in. oil-tempered hoes; three oil-tempered cultivator teeth;
one oil-tempered garden plough; one leaf guard; one marker; one extension piece
for wider rows; one wrench.
PLANET Jr. Double- and
Single-wheel Hoe
Combined
Steel frame.
14-inch steel wheels.
No. 1 I—Planet Jr. Double- and Single-wheel Hoe Combined. Packed weight, 371 b.
Equipment: One pair 6in. oil-tempered hoes; one pair oil-tempered hoes; four
oil-tempered steel cultivator teeth; one pair oil-tempered ploughs; two 3-tooth rakes;
two 5-tooth rakes; two leaf lifters.
# Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O,


%0*
Here is the Book thousands have been waiting for!
TIBURON
Kylie Tennant’s Brilliant Story of Life in an Australian Country Town.
Winner of the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1935, and acknowledged
as the best serial published in The BULLETIN for many years, Tiburon ,
in book form, will be a worthy addition to your bookshelves, for it is a
book to be read by the whole family.
JUST PUBLISHED AND PHENOMENAL VALUE
416 PAGES. PRICE (POSTAGE 4d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents, or from
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
the career of young Brock, but he be-
comes a prisoner of war in Germany, is
rather kindly treated, and, one feels, is
sure to return to his Hortense.
The narrative is frank, in twentieth-
century fashion. Neither the elders nor
the youngsters 'are angels. There is an
escapade in which Brock and his girl
were concerned (when Brock was 13)
which wouldn’t have got into any Eng-
lish publication in the Victorian era,
though it was innocent enough, and the
language of Hortense (daughter of a
widower colonel and brought up in bar-
racks) is remarkably racy. The un-
pleasantest parts of trench warfare are
not shirked. But of the character-draw-
ing, especially of James Crome, one has
to go back to Thackeray (whose most
recent biography Ellis wrote) for a paral-
lel in deftness of touch and delicacy of
delineation.
This is no shortcake of a novel to be
wolfed in an hour or so, but an old-
fashioned three-course dinner, requiring
serious application and plenty of time
for digestion.
AVON.
Central
Australian
Scene
H. H. Finlay-
son!s The Red
Centre (Angus
and Robertson;
7s. 6d.), men-
tioned on the Red
Page (18/12/’35),
is, in addition to being good reading,
a description of the interior of our con-
tinent and its problems of ecology writ-
ten by a trained zoologist, and therefore
invaluable to scientific workers. The
Centre is the only remaining area in
Australia which may be said to repre-
sent the conditions existing prior to the
advent of the white man, and but little
changed by settlement. Even here the
balance of nature has been affected by
the invasion of the rabbit and by other
causes, and the plea of the author for
the preservation of the aboriginal re-
serves as national parks will be endorsed
by scientists not only in Australia but
overseas.
The book is packed with information
regarding the Centre. One chapter of
particular interest describes the re-
discovery of the plain rat-kangaroo, or
oolacunta ( Caloprymnus campestris),
which was for long known to science by
three specimens only, sent to the British
Museum by John Gould in 1843, but
which had not been seen again since that
date until Mr. Finlayson obtained fur-
ther specimens. He gives a graphic
description of its habitat and way of
life. Page after page is crammed with
detailed first-hand information of many
other of the strange forms of life —
mammals, reptiles and insects. There is
a remarkable description of a pheno-
menal swarming of a cicada (Thopa
colorata), an occurrence so rare that,
although the natives have a name for it,
few of the younger men questioned by
Mr. Finlayson had ever seen the adult
insect.
Observations such as these, made in
the field under natural conditions, are
invaluable to scientific workers interested
in more than problems of nomenclature.
That such observations have been far
too few is evidenced by the fact that
of many of our animals—not a few of
which are rapidly disappearing—we
know nothing whatever beyond a few
skins and skulls preserved in our
museums.
Chapters on the aborigines are of
general interest and of value to the
anthropologist. Mr. Finlayson views
the problem of the native with sym-
pathy ; but his view is a broad one,
worthy of consideration by scientists, and
also by our administrators and Aus-
tralians generally.
The illustrations are among the finest
we have had of the Red Centre, and the
map is the most adequate one of that
area which has been published to date.
KEITH C. MCKEOWN.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Joan of Arc Milton Waldman.
Men and Deeds John Buchan.
The Asiatics Frederic Prokosch.
There Goes the Queen ... G.. U. Ellis.
OF the two novels included here, The
Asiatics, by Frederic Prokosch
(Chatto and Windus ; Bs. 6d.), bears out
one promise of its jacket-description: it
is hard to tell in it where “fiction ends
and stranger truth begins.” Save for
having some moderately-well-constructed
characters and being set in a narrative
key, it scarcely reads as a novel at all.
No one will enjoy it more than the
travel-literature addict ; though regular
novel readers will relish its refreshing
unusualness.
Narrated in the first person, it records
the wanderings over the lower half of
Asia of a naive young American —the
places he sees, casual and more lasting
acquaintances he makes, adventures he
has (some of them highly dangerous;
some highly amorous): a seemingly aim-
less wandering, with re-meetings to hold
the thread of narrative. The naive
manner of the telling, springing naturally
from the same quality in the wanderer’s
character, gives a quaint air of purity to
things which in cruder handling could
be coarse enough. As presented, they
would draw little more than a surprised
“Oh, dear!” from a censor’s maiden
aunt.
On other counts it is a most interest-
ing novel, even though it has to be said
of it that as a novel it is a hopeless con-
struction. Its traveller goes by foot,
boat, ’plane and any other means avail-
able. With the disarming naivete of the
complete innocent, he takes, too, every-
thing that offers —money, women,
charity, a shouted meal, or several weeks
of a maharajah’s hospitality. He spends
a few months in gaol: a magnificent
section, this ; perhaps the best in the
book—alive with character and the senSe
of impending drama. Adventure is con-
tinuous as in the Thousand and One
Nights, and almost as fantastic. A
strange piece of fiction.
Milton Walclman’s Joan of Arc is re-
viewed at length on page 2. It is equal
to his Elizabeth of England: maybe a
trifle better in its flowing narrative,
though this may seem so only because
Joan’s few months of glory make better
material for dramatic story.
Men and Deeds, by John Buchan
(Peter Davies; Angus and Robertson;
165.), as fine a work as any that bears
Buchan’s name, is really a collection of
brief books standing related on a broad
historical basis. Possibly the best is a
brilliant telling of the story of Gordon
at Khartoum. Another, in like-flowing
narrative manner, tells the story of the
Massacre of Glencoe. Another is a
word-saving biography of Julius Caesar.
There is also an outline story of the Kirk
of Scotland, with the rest university lec-
tures of historical flavoring. In its way
an omnibus volume, but unlike the
general ugly run of such things in being
a most handsome book. There is an in-
timate, personal touch about it, which,
with the excellence of the Buchan style
and his talent as a first-class storyteller,
makes it an armchair book in a hundred.
The other book in this selection—
G. U. Ellis’s There Goes the Queen —
has not been read by the present book-
taster, but is included with the assurance
of the one who reviews it on page 2
that as historical fiction in the romantic
vein it is an uncommon good one.
The Married Lover, translated by
Marjorie Laurie from Colette’s Duo
(Werner Laurie; 7s. 6d.), is .scarcely
worth the trouble. While holidaying at
their country house a middle-aged
theatre manager discovers that his wife
had some time previously carried on a
brief love affair with his partner.
They’re alone but for a couple of ser-
vants, he unwilling to let his anger die
down, she annoyed that he should rate
the incident so’ important. As translated,
halting and unattractive.
Hungry Men, by Edward Anderson
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). Novel of
America’s present race of down-and-out,
its leading character an average young
chap who played in an orchestra and
after figuring in this story is happy to
be one of a trio of street musicians. A
clear picture, with a sense of autobio-
graphical reality, it won a 1000-dollars
prize, and is well above the ruck of
general fiction.
Himself, written and illustrated by K,
F. Barker (Country Life; 7s. 6d. net).
Dog-study chapters, breezily written,
with engaging illustrations. For addicts.
Footlight Fairytales, by Irene Heath
(Halcyon Book Co. ; ss. net). Most of
the favorites, retold with astonishing
brevity from play and pantomime ver-
sions.
Australian Writers’ Annual: 1936
(25.). A first-rate production, well-
written, finely illustrated and one of the
most widely-representative publications
Australian writers and artists have com-
bined in making. A list of its 60 or so
contributors would include the names of
most of the best-known artists and
writers in the country. Fine drawings
are finely reproduced, and the writers’
contributions provide an engaging variety
of reading. A good one.
Over African Jungles, by Martin John-
son (Harrap ; 12s. 6d. net). Tells, with
helpful assistance of an exceptionally fine
lot of photographs, of the expedition by
’plane in which the author and his game
pocket-edition-size wife —both now old-
stagers in their line—covered 60,000
miles, coming down wherever landing
offered to capture the wild life —animal
and human —with their camera
The Grateful Sparrow and Other Tales
(Hamish Hamilton; ss. net). Five
hitherto unknown fairy stories in the
Grimm tradition, given a happy English
telling by Angela Thirkell, with 24
quaintly appropriate large-page drawings
in color by Ludwig Richter in the Row-
landson manner. The collector will
secure it for his children, and, miser
that he is, put it on his own precious
shelves. (That’s where this copy goes.)
Victorious Troy, by John Masefield
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). As ever, when
Masefield writes of the sea he writes
finely, and it is no serious disparagement
to say that this hardly measures up to
such a glorious thing as his Bird of
Dawning. It tells —with sometimes a
bluntness of expression that goes close
to being casual —of a grain-sailer home-
ward bound from Melbourne which,
carrying an overload of sail, runs into
a cyclone (finely described) and loses her
masts and sufficient of her complement
to allow a youngster to take charge and
give heroic account of himself.
Dismas, by Mary Moore (John Heri-
tage ; 7s. 6d.). Story of one of the two
thieves between whom Christ was cruci-
fied. Mary Magdalen is one of the
principal characters, the restoration of
sight to Bartimaeus is one of the in-
cidents and there are glimpses of Judas
and Caiphas. New Testament termin-
ology is used for conversations scriptur-
ally recorded, and the style is retained
for other dialogue. Dramatic sense, plus
considerable research, enables the writer
to present a vivid and not at all squeam-
ish picture of life in Palestine under the
Roman suzerainty.
Sixty Years in the East, by Sir Wil-
liam Willcocks (Blackwood; 15s. net).
Unpretentious autobiography of one
who spent most of his life on great desert
irrigation schemes, like the Assuan dam,
for which he was honored, on the one
hand, with such things as his knight-
hood, and elsewhere with such a unique
experience for a Christian as being taken
to a mosque where, in the midst of the
Moslem worship, the blessing of Allah
was invoked upon him in gratitude for
his work.
The Cases of Susan Dare, by Mignon
G. Eberhardt (Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.). By
a quaint old American custom, when a
murder occurs a reporter or an amateur
detective arrives immediately prior
to, during or right on the heels of the
gruesome act, and proceeds to elucidate
the mystery and confound official
stupidity. This thriller has two of them
—Susan Dare, spare-time sleuth and
heroine, and Jim Byrne, boy-friend re-
porter. Six crimes, and horror thick and
heavy
It Is Expedient, by Kenneth Ingram
(Bles ; 7s. 6d.). Fiction on the theme of
Christ - persecuted - on - His - return. The
parallel to Christ is Avalla, mystic in a
fictitious Asiatic State over which Eng-
land rules. If the author has portrayed
a true picture, it is a marvel that the
British Raj hasn’t been kicked out of
every principality which Albion has
colonised. Dialogue, particularly where
women intrude, is wooden. In all, an-
other proof that art and propaganda are
hard mixers.
Australian Wattles, by Edith Coleman
(Robertson and Mullens ; Is. 6d.). Well
illustrated and printed, this little book
deals with varieties, utilisation, success-
ful growing and the ills that wattles are
heir to. The author loves her wattles,
and is restrainedly sentimental about
them, but she never loses sight of the
scientific side.


"“ill
Ml
:
illl
LOOK Fo a
THEN AM E
TOOHEYS
OslO
a?
u->
■v
TOOHEYS
LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents. VICTORIA Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
'■ ■ - ■< ,y ■>
• r ■/
K
' - ' ' ' '
'
iW
m
mm
m
■
m
B
H
m
vi&m
i&S*
'"5 M
. . HBH
M
i i
:
* ■■■..■■
. . ■ ' ■" V ■'
■.
HI
- Vi
gpnm
T?“sf:
m
••
msm
i
*
"•
ii®
■
-■ ->>:•%.
m
■■ % *
ggg i r
-**sT-
m
m
K
H
s
■ M
a
■•■*-.
mb ©
3 INK
m
PBS
m N
-
From this Small Beginning in 1851 Stocks now exceed 4J million gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2916.
January 1, 1936.
BRITANNIA LEFT WITH THE BABY.
"nd the worst of the painful situation is that nobody will believe it isn’t mine. And me a respectable single woman who always used to
keep to herself!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings,' 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s :
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
U ni ‘ e d Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and U nited Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE LEAGUE THAT FAILED.
rmistlce it was forgotten by men who
should have remembered that the nineteenth century
had a world war and a league to enforce peace.
u J n J 814-15, as in 1918-19, Britain stood at the
head of a victorious coalition. Napoleon was the
enemy then, and Britain’s triumph was shared by
potentates whose successors were fated to be the most
spectacular victims of the twentieth-century struggle—
the Emperors of Austria and Russia and the King
of Prussia.
As in 1914-18, Britain had blockaded the defeated
Power, being supreme on the sea, and had made a
great contribution to the land war, while expending
part of its effort in costly and, in some cases, inglori-
ous side-shows notably the attempt to force the
passage of the Dardanelles and the two expeditions
to Buenos Ayres. As in 1914-18 likewise, it had
helped all its Allies financially, though with subsidies
rather than loans.
The wars were over. What was to be done with
the prostrate country? Its armies had beaten the
ultimate winners in campaign after campaign. Seek-
ing what it called glory,” it had occupied every
great Continental city save Constantinople and St.
Petersburg, and if its military power were not shat-
tered it would assuredly follow its blood-red star
again. Now was the time to break it, once and for
all. Let France be dismembered and condemned to pay
an indemnity that would cripple what was left of it.
These arguments appealed to most of the trium-
phant princes, but not to the representatives of Britain.
Castlereagh and Wellington coldly replied, in substance,
that their country had not been fighting for 21 years,
with a brief intermission, in order to sow the seeds
of future wars. At one stage of the long negotiations,
which were interrupted by the Hundred Days, they
actually signed a private treaty, offensive and defen-
sive, with France ; in effect, agreeing to fight along-
side the French rather than allow France to be parti-
tioned, although this was not expressly stated.
In the end, after “the Netherlands had demanded
the restitution to their ancient possessors of Alsace,
Lorraine, Flanders and Artois,” and Prussia, while
supporting the Netherlands, had claimed “Montmedy,
Metz, Saarelouis and Thionville,” and the King of
Sardinia had staked out Savoy, and Austria had inti-
mated that it would be satisfied with “a territorial
indemnity, a guarantee for permanent security, a
suitable form of government [for the French, of
course] and subordination of the [French] army to
military police,” a peace without dismemberment was
signed. Though an indemnity was specified, the army
of occupation was withdrawn in a little over three
years. “England and Russia had asked for nothing.”
Russia, of course, had grabbed “Russian” Poland and
Finland ; Prussia, along with “Prussian” Poland, had
gained Swedish Pomerania and part of Saxony and
advanced to the Rhine, and the Austrians were in
Lombardy and Venetia.
The peace treaty signed, a war-weary world was
bidden to accept “the code of a new right of nations,”
based on “the great fraternal principles of Chris-
tianity,” by the Russian Emperor Alexander. A
dreamer and mystic, very much under petticoat influ-
ence, Alexander was the Woodrow Wilson of his
time. Britain had been the soul of the coalition, but
in the process of years the sovereign who had lost
the American colonies had become “an old, blind,
mad, despised and dying king,” and the Prince Regent
was, at best, a jaded voluptuary; so (the retreat from
Moscow being still a vivid memory) Alexander’s
assumption of leadership in the 1815 peace stunt was
unchallenged.
“In the name of the Most Holy and Invisible
Trinity,” the Czar and his good brothers of Austria
and Prussia “solemnly” declared that it was their
“unshaken determination” to “take for their rule of
conduct the precepts of justice, charity and peace,”
to “lend to each other, on all occasions and in all
places, assistance, aid and succor,” and to take all
sorts of care to maintain the status quo. In the
language of the League Covenant, they undertook
“to respect and preserve as against external aggres-
sion the territorial integrity and existing political
independence of all members.” In their own flowery
jargon, they assured “all those Powers who shall
choose solemnly to avow the sacred Principles which
have dictated the present Act” that they should be
“received with Ardour and Affection into this Holy
Alliance.” Received into it they all were, except
the Pope and the Prince Regent; as in the case of
the League Covenant, the Pope was not asked to
sign, and Castlereagh, answering for the Prince Regent,
refused.
In effect, “the persistent efforts of the Czai
to make the Holy Alliance the basis of a general
confederation of Europe were frustrated by the vigor-
ous diplomacy of Castlereagh, acting as the mouth-
piece of the British Government.” Canning, succeed-
ing Castlereagh as Foreign Secretary, “asserted the
principle of non-interference in the affairs of foreign
States,” and “called into existence a New World to
redress the balance of the Old.”
Many of his contemporaries had a mean opinion
of Castlereagh, whose name is preserved in a Sydney
street. Byron made him the subject of unprintable
lines. Shelley
Met Murder on the way:
He had a mask like Castlereagh.
A generation which tried to pay the war debt to
the Americans until it had to give up the struggle,
and which has witnessed the performances of demo-
cratic politicians at Versailles and Geneva, should be
kinder to his memory. Aristocrats though they were,
stern and unbending Tories, and proud of it, Castle-
reagh and his associates did not demand the
impossible of allies or carve up the territories of the
vanquished. Neither did they regard their world as
static, though the lawyer-authors of the League Cove-
nant did. And, though their methods of diplomacy were
singularly unlike those of Sir Samuel Hoare and Mr.
Anthony Eden —they would no more have thought
of taking strange newspapermen into their confidence
than strange flunkeys—they were eminently effective.
In spite of the efforts of Jingoes on both sides
of the Channel, the peace that Castlereagh concluded
with France, the traditional foe, has endured. His
foreign policy paved the way for a century of magni-
ficent achievement in every field. When he was dead
a feeble Administration drifted into the idiotic
Crimean War, but that was no consequence of the
settlements Castlereagh made, nor, as a result of
those settlements, was the Empire bound to intervene
in every wrangle involving territory in every part of
the world, America possibly excepted. That ques-
tionable privilege has been reserved for the Empire
as we know it. '
Castlereagh cut his throat. If he were restored
to life, and were privileged to study the Covenant
to which windbags committed us, and to see his
proud England appealing, in the name of “collective
security” for help from the ragtag and bobtail of
Europe, in the event of its being attacked by the
House of Savoy, perhaps he would cut it again.
SO CERUTTY WAS RIGHT.
Accused less than two months ago of maliciously
slandering old-age and invalid pensioners, ex-Auditor-
General Cerutty is now tacitly admitted to have been
right by the people who attacked him.
There has been no open admission. That would
be too just. But it is now given out that the
Commonwealth Government, “alarmed by the rapidly-
expanding cost of old-age and invalid pensions, which
this year is estimated to reach a new high level of
£13,000,000, has begun serious consideration of a
scheme for national insurance.”
It is time the Government was “alarmed.” But it
would not have been, even now, if the Auditor-General,
who lately retired to the resounding compliment of silly
abuse and sillier threats, had not hammered at the
existing false system for the past half-dozen years.
All that was new about the report which caused
Canberra’s self-protectionists to arise in such stormy
indignation was that it contained in one concentrated
lump all varieties of the medicine which the appointed
physician of public accounts had been administering foi
years—too huge a pill to be comfortably swallowed.
The picture was therefore created of a monster
suddenly celebrating his retirement from a gross
career by unloosing a mass of “irresponsible state-
ments,” which, in the now-notorious phrase, “traduced
the character and habits” of pensioners. The truth,
of course, was that the statements were based on firm,
though ugly, facts, and, instead of being made to
traduce pensioners, were disinterestedly and, as it
turns out, wisely calculated to safeguard the lot of
future pensioners and at the same time protect tax-
payers from extortion.
This service the ex-Auditor-General had been
doing for most of his nine years on the job. Three
years ago he had recorded overpayments of pensions
of more than £22,000 for one year. Among the more
glaring cases he instanced that of a pensioner who
gathered £lO,OOO from a will but continued to draw
pension for nearly two years.
Many such examples—beyond contradiction, and
impervious to whole cataracts of Canberra abuse—
would not have been heard of but for investigating
officers, appointed only after they had been “long
and strenuously advocated.” These investigators
—there were then two —examined that year (1932)
789 suspected cases, and discovered 183 (23 per cent.)
that had to be cancelled, reduced or suspended. On
the figures Mr. Cerutty estimated that the appoint-
ment of a staff of investigators would “result in the
saving of millions of pounds in a few years.”
Nimble minds had no trouble in twisting these
and years of like services into a monstrous traducing
of the characters and habits of pensioners. By the
same logic it is traducing the characters and habits
of churchgoers to say that buttons are sometimes
found in the collection-plate. So false, in fact, that
it could not delude, though it might amuse, even the
guilty. The others —the 90-odd per cent, of decent
pensioners—as it now turns out, were being done a
signal service through Mr. Cerutty’s warnings, and
pensioners of the future were being done a greater
service still. For—as he pointed out, and Canberra
now acknowledges—the cost of pensions has grown
to such proportions and is so rapidly increasing that
the present system, left alone, must break down.
Under this system pension costs have increased
from £5,263,000 in 1921 to the impending £13,000,000
—more than 140 per cent, in 14 years. That,
as has now been “discovered,” could not go on.
Even so, the suggestion has not been made—as
the Canberra hot air must have led many to believe —
that the rate of pensions should be lowered. Where
the pensioner wholly depends on it, 18s. a week
provides bare subsistence at the best. With it men
and women can no more than sustain themselves
through what is left to them of existence.
It is true that Australian pensioners are more
generously treated than those of anywhere else.
The amount, judged by our standards of decent living,
is still miserably little. Ordinary human feeling would
insist that, if anything, it should be increased. And
obviously increased it could be if that “saving of
millions of pounds in a few years” were made.
Simply, if all the money that is being wrongfully
paid was being rightfully paid to the needy aged and
sick, there would be an appreciable benefit to the
majority of pensioners. That is the correct reading of
the Cerutty “attack” upon these unfortunates.
Canberra’s belated move, however, does not
promise any such ideal advantage as that. It is purely
an admission that something desperately needs to be
done to ensure being able in the future to continue to
pay pensions— at the present rate, at least.
It would have been a reassuring act of grace in
this new-found resolution to acknowledge the prophet.
Quick-change artists whose last act was doing his
name all the wrong of which their competent tongues
were capable consider it more seemly to now come
on in the role he had shaped for them and represent
it as their own.
THE NAVAL CONFERENCE.
The London naval conference opened in an atmo-
sphere very different from that of the Washington
conference in 1922. Then there was no Germany
to be reckoned with. The British Navy was supreme.
Uncle Sam was in two minds about his naval advisers’
building programme, which included squadrons of
40,000-ton battleships. Other countries, suffering
from war exhaustion, undervalued naval strength,
partly because they had been under Britain’s wing
during four years of carnage. Japan found itself
in the position of being unable to compete with first-
class rivals through sheer lack of materials. So it
gladly accepted the 5-5-3 standard.
In the years that followed, Germany, its hands
tied by the Peace Treaty, began to build pocket
battleships. It became obvious that, where the most
mobile and wide-ranging cruiser squadron had been
tied to an area within at most 2000 miles of its base,
the range would be extended to 10,000 miles at least.
As the big fighting ships became obsolescent, in
spite of continual reconditioning, each nation knew
that in a few years it would have to rebuild its navy.
Each was accordingly smitten with a fear that,
in the process of rebuilding, new features, newly-
invented metals which altered the ratio of weight
to power and new types of guns would enable its
neighbor to steal a march.
For dreams of a permanent peace faded with
the prestige of the League. Japan set up Manchukuo,
and secured with it supplies of coal and iron. It
left the League and increased its power in other parts
of China. Germany left the League. It was rearming
briskly. Complications were added by the African
ambitions of Italy, the vast increase of air forces,
particularly in Russia, and the opening of air-trade
routes, which, incidentally, illustrated the increased
range and striking power of the ’plane.
In no arm has post-war Britain kept pace with
developments in other countries. Its pacifists, who
are now spoiling for a fight in the Mediterranean,
have done that part of their work too well. Still,
thanks to the exertions of its Admiralty, it is the
only Great Power which has built new capital ships—
the Rodney and the Nelson—in the past 17 years.
Britain has 15 battleships and battle-cruisers; Japan
has nine battleships. Two only are post-Jutland types.
Says the 1935 Statesman’s Year-Book :
By the London Treaty, no capital ships may be
replaced during 1931-36. When the London Treaty
expires in 1936 Japan will claim “parity in principle”
with Britain and the U.S.A.
This claim has been presented at the conference
now in progress. Reports of the proceedings thus far
given to the world do not suggest that it will be aban-
doned or modified to any important extent. If no
agreement is arrived at, Britain will have to build
warships on at least the pre-war scale; fortunately
it is still in a position to outbuild any other country.
Australia, as the most exposed part of the Empire,
will also have to build warships (particularly sub-
marines), and aircraft, too. It will mean the sacrifice
of unemployed-relief loan “works” that now intrigue
our politicians, but in the process the country will
get industries that are really permanent and worth
while. Even Mr. Stevens, the author of the £15,000,000
sewerage scheme for Sydney, seems resigned to the
belief that Something Will Have to Be Done:
What has happened in Europe and Asia since
September may impose a new task upon us and the
coming generation. One thing is certain —we must
develop, populate and expand to meet the position.
Assuredly £15,000,000 sewerage schemes will not
“meet the position,” although the equipment and
training of Australians and Maorilanders for offensive-
defensive warfare—on land, in the air and on and
under the sea —may. After all, there are between
eight and nine millions of them: nearly seven million
Australians and nearly a million and a half Maori-
landers, whose warrior-sons proved their mettle in
the most terrible of struggles.
No nation is truly a nation unless it is able to
defend itself.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Suicide by Strike.
Even the callous gang that started the seamen’s union
on its suicide track knows now that there has never
been a more foolish strike. Its only dismal achieve-
ment has been to enable the men to be ashore for
Christmas and draw in strike-pay 10s. per head in
Sydney, 7s. 6d. in Newcastle and nothing in Adelaide,
instead of at least £lO in wages.
Directly attacking the Arbitration Court, the
strikers encountered unexpectedly stiff opposition
from the Commonwealth Government. The introduc-
tion of the licensing system enabled freighters to run
and greatly lessened the intended damage to shippers.
Allowing the overseas boats to carry passengers
defeated the intended inconvenience there also. In
addition to this sensible disarming, the strike has been
nailed for what it is—a crazy piece of lawbreaking,
deserving the sympathy of nobody.
Thus pinned down for what they are —with the
general body of unionists indifferent, related unions
like the stewards’ openly opposed, and public opinion
generally definitely hostile—these “militants” resort to
the sort of action they are best at: a bit of physical
violence and threats to damage the pitch as much as
possible while their innings lasts. Thus the only
happenings of any note among themselves in the past
week have been the manhandling and “recall” of their
general secretary, who refuses to be “recalled.”
Threats of damage to come included calling out
the crew of the Aorangi. The Niagara is already
worked with volunteers, and any further trouble with
crews will probably mean that the Niagara and the
Aorangi will be removed from Australian articles.
Nobody will blame the owners. As it is, British ship-
ping on this particular run is reduced to this couple
of passenger vessels, and may at any time be with-
drawn altogether.
The cancerous form of Communism responsible
for this strike has been described by A. H. Moate, the
stewards’ general secretary, as “a vile growth that
will leave behind it shattered homes and starving chil-
dren.” It resorts to “deceit and low cunning,” and
excites “distrust and hatred.” This foul excrescence
on the body of maritime unionism must be removed,
once and for all. Fortunately for the country, it
can be said that the Commonwealth Government is
going the right way about doing that necessary job.
*
Pity the Poor Abyssinian!
Nothing in the silly performance of our Glorious
Press on the Abyssinian dispute has been more dis-
reputable than the attempts to stir up sentimental
sympathy for the “defenceless Christian people”
which, for purposes of propaganda, the Danakils,
Gallas, Gofas, Fannos and the rest of them have
suddenly become..
The late Dr. T. H. Fiaschi, who wore the Aus-
tralian uniform in two wars, had personal experience
of the pleasant people of Ethiopia. He was among
them in the 1896 fighting, and saw there the horrible
evidence of their “Christian” practices. In reports
to the “British Medical Journal” (August 29 and
September 12, 1896) he described actual cases he
had seen and treated.
The urusat is one of the less atrocious of the
acts recorded. It was freely practised in 1896, and
when the truth of the present fighting emerges at
last more instances of the same nice performance
will probably emerge with it. It consists in removing
the right hand and right foot of a prisoner of war ;
the prisoner is held by soldiers, and the limbs are
cut away with a sword, three or four cuts to each
limb and no benefit of chloroform. The victim is
then turned loose to bleed to death or staunch his
wounds with his clothes, if he can.
That is not “Abyssinian news,” but cold record
from the sober pages of the “British Medical Journal.”
Also this: that when about 300 prisoners were taken
by the Abyssinians in the battle of Abba Carima
on March 1, 1896, the Negus Menelik at first refused
to permit the urusat. He eventually agreed on repre-
sentations being made by the Queen and the head
of the Abyssinian clergy. Of a total of 1500 thus
mutilated “there cannot be more than 500 survivors;
the remaining 1000 succumbed either to hemorrhage
or to starvation and the sufferings that followed.”
References to the more frightful forms of muti-
lation will be found in the “British Medical Journal”
of the dates mentioned. They are mutilations so vile,
fiendish and horrible that, though it was Dr. Fiaschi’s
duty to report them as he did, they cannot be described
here.
♦
A Bigger Duntroon.
A post-war graduate is in favor of it:
According to the Commandant of the Royal Military
College, “the number of cadets is still too small”; and
nobody can deny it.
Because the Duntrooner, on entering, is committed to
12 years’ soldiering, and because the Staff Corps needs so
few new officers each year, the corps of cadets is barely
50 strong.
Your West Point (U.S.A.) cadet is not compelled to go
into the army for a stated period; hence, the strength of
the student body is maintained at extraordinarily high figures.
Duntroon could and should be Australia’s West Point.
Remove the obligation of a military career and the number
of students could be increased from 50 to 500. Maoriland
would assuredly send its proportion.
Increased numbers would mean greater selection for the
first requirement, army staff officers, and better training for
eventual army graduates, as well as a decided improvement on
the recreational side. A larger Duntroon would get more
publicity, and be relatively more economical to conduct (the
present overhead cost per cadet is enormous); no great
increase in staff would be required. Duntroon’s military organi-
sation and atmosphere benefit service students as a matter of
course, and would equally benefit other students. The word
“soldierly” still ranks high as an adjective. Australia’s
militia forces are staffed by Duntroon graduates; from the
modified college would emerge, in addition, a constant flow
of potential officers for the militia, with benefit to that force.
It would be feasible to expand the scope of instruction
at Duntroon to include certain civil diploma courses at uni-
versity standards and under university conditions. Such courses
could perhaps be arranged on the usual university system of
fees and scholarships, and of payment for accommodation and
board. The income so received would help in defraying
college expenses.
The old Duntroon college buildings and grounds should
be used as a nucleus for expansion. Many of the buildings
are temporary, and so could be removed or remodelled at
low cost. The permanent structures are eminently suitable,
and the surroundings are beautiful.
By all means let us have a bigger and better Duntroon,
turning out not only army and air-force graduates but
civilians with university degrees.
“Thrown Down the Gutter.”
Australian marketing methods have faced some
nasty criticism this last year, particularly with regard
to the quality of eggs sent to the London market.
Mr. Lyons has declared that he found importers
anxious to get Australian goods. So they are —the
right Australian goods.
Inspection is only a qualified safeguard. No
matter how rigid it may be, it is impossible for every
case of apples or eggs to be thoroughly gone over.
And it should not be necessary. All products in
England are bought on sample and in good faith. So
severe is the system that the merchant who does not
stand rigidly by his samples might as well go out of
business. The exporter who does not live up to the
best standards and whose shipments are found to
contain bad produce or produce not according to
grade can do a lot more harm than the mere dishonest
local merchant, who injures only himself. If it is
worth a fine of £1 a skin to evade the law which
protects possums and send skins abroad, or £lOO
for smuggling in a Chinaman, a penalty of £lOO per
case and the suspension of license to export would
not be too much punishment for those who damage
Australia’s reputation by exporting produce which they
know is not up to the mark.
G. L. Hoskins, manager of the “Australian
Exporter,” has quoted a letter from “the managing
director of one of the largest fruit markets in the
world”:
I am quite sure that there must be any number of
people in Australia that are sick to death of Govern-
ment control and bad packing....! think the bad
state of the Australian apple trade is simply due to
lack of organisation on your side. Both in Australia
and Tasmania, growers and exporters seem to be
allowed to send any kind of apples to this country.
One is apt to think that Australians believe that we are
starved for apples over here.
F. W. Kitchen, past-president of the Associated
Chambers of Manufacturers, returning from England,
asserted that hundreds of thousands of pounds are
being “thrown down the gutter” because there is no
proper tie-up between publicity and marketing, and
because the parrot-cry of “Buy Australian” is not
linked with definite, tangible trademarks and labels.
He might have gone further. If the quality of the
produce which we send cries “Buy Australian,” there
will be no need to do it so loudly and so often in
print.
Loyalty and’ Sanity.
Wiluna (W.A.) miners have arrived at a sane decision
in declaring that, in future, they will take no action
when a man has lost his job through negligence or
drink. It is a decision that other trade-unions would
do well to endorse.
In the past, entire industries have been held up
because some waster was deservedly sacked.
A union of importance was plunged into a
serious strike because one of these individuals was
very properly fired for being drunk on the job, making
a rush at the foreman and threatening to sabotage
the machinery. His workmates knew well the type
of man he was. His dues were always in arrears ;
his wife and children scratched along on the smell
of an oil rag while he spent his wages at the pub, and
he was an offensive companion to those about him.
But he had the gift of the gab and, while the workers
in his own shop knew him for the rotter he was, he
was able to persuade unionists who did not know him
that he was a martyr to principle, sacrificed by the
brutal capitalist because of his advocacy of union
ideals. Out of a mistaken sense of loyalty his work-
mates refrained from telling the rest the truth, and
out of a mistaken sense of loyalty the union declared
a strike which lasted for some weeks and terminated
with the reinstatement of the offender.
He was finally got rid of by direct action.
One day a man on the same bench gave him such a
father of a hiding that he never turned up again.
+
An Economic Survey.
Australians have drifted into the condition of a
spendthrift who keeps on drawing cheques without
knowing what his bank balance is. They have the
excuse, for what it may be worth, that they inherited
a virgin continent, and that wastage in primary resources
is so slow that a single lifetime rarely shows its full
effects.
But wastage is showing. Even holders not stinted
for capital have been forced out of Centralian stations
by failure of grass and herbage. Sand has beaten
many Mallee (Vic.) farmers. In the western districts
of N. S. Wales carrying capacity has been reduced by
sand and rabbits. It is only by a lucky accident that
the advance of prickly-pear has been stayed in Queens-
land ; in other parts of the continent skeleton weed,
Bathurst burr, Noogoora and other noxious weeds
are taking possession of cultivable land. And every-
where there has been prodigal destruction of useful
timber, often without benefit to grazing. Valuable
native grasses—kangaroo grass in particular—have
disappeared from whole regions.
One of the most alarming developments, how-
ever, is in the gradual exhaustion of artesian water
in some of Australia’s best fine-wool districts. It is
all the more alarming because these districts are
subject to drought.
The report of the Queensland Land Administra-
tion Board provides the evidence. The period of
maximum flow of Queensland bore supplies already
is past, and the board points out that the provision
of additional bores would not only accentuate the
rate of diminution of the flow but add to the capital
cost of water.
Queensland artesian belts —they run from the
border to the Gulf, through the whole of the Mitchell-
grass country west of the Dividing Range—lost
26.4 p.c. of output between 1914 and 1924, and a
further 17.7 p.c. in the decade ended 1934. Of 71
bores graphed only 23 are regarded as having a
chance of life beyond 1970.
The diminution is greatest in the richest districts.
Nine bores along the 20th parallel produced only
43.3 p.c. of the water recorded in 1914. Nineteen on
the 21st degree from Hughenden to Cloncurry
show a 47.2 p.c. reduction, even though some have
been carefully regulated. Three have failed com-
pletely ; four more are near failure.
On the Winton line there has been more than a
50 p.c. decline, with four more failures out of 17.
Even in the rich Longreach belt, where bores are deep
and 25 years ago it was thought that the water was
inexhaustible, 38.2 p.c. of the flow has gone. Such
well-known sources as the two Wellshot holes have
fallen off 49 p.c. and 46 p.c. respectively.
Below the tropic the average decline is about
45 p.c. In one of the oldest bore districts, which
reaches from Surat fo the western Paroo —24 bores —
only 40 p.c. of 1914 water is to be had.
A general economic survey of Australia is needed,
to be followed by the framing of conservation and
reclamation plans. It need not all be done at Govern-
ment expense. Banks and pastoral companies are
deeply interested.
*
Brisbane’s Flatland.
A curious proof of the alteration of living habits
forced on city-dwellers by high municipal rates and
high costs of building and maintenance is afforded by
the official admission that flats and tenements have
increased in Brisbane by 248 per cent, during the last
12 years. It is certainly not due to any lack of avail-
able building area. Nor has the population increased
any faster than was estimated for the same period
when Greater Brisbane was initiated.
The City Fathers are worrying over the resultant
creation of what are practically slum areas on a
large and increasing scale, with their equally inevitable
disease risks and undesirable effects on the health
of children, both accentuated by a sub-tropic climate.
The plain fact is that, until Lord Mayor Jones and
his associates find some way of lowering their appal-
ling rates, the average man cannot afford to own a
house and garden, both rated alike. And, until he
can, the present conditions will grow worse, whatever
the City Council does or says.
——■——— ♦
The Bosses Object.
From a country pressman:
I suggest that one reason why the mike is excluded from
the Commonwealth Parliament (B. 18/12/’35) is the opposi-
tion by the Post Office bureaucrats to any possible loss of
telegraphic revenue.
Under present conditions, wholly inadequate reports of
debates are telegraphed from Canberra all over Australia.
If debates were broadcast they could be much more efficiently
summarised by reporters sitting beside receivers in the news-
paper offices. That system would represent a huge saving
in time —and in telegraphic costs.
But the Post Office monopolists will not tolerate any-
thing like that. Their policy of opposing new methods which
may mean efficiency and economy is well known to country
newspaper proprietors. The latter cut out the slow and expen-
sive press telegrams by attaching dictaphones to the receiving
ends of long-distance telephones and transcribing from the
dictaphone records. The system worked admirably, but it
did not last long.
Some bureaucrat discovered that revenue from press tele-
grams had fallen, and trampled upon the dictaphones with
both feet. Country pressmen, after years of agitation, secured
the partial restoration of the dictaphones, but under conditions
which ensure that the department gets as much revenue as
heretofore from country press traffic.
V
Let Them Go Without!
Apropos of a somewhat different Bruce:
Six South Queensland shire councils, through whose areas
the Bruce Highway has been constructed, agreed in approving
a scheme. of electrical supply which had been submitted by
an electrical company in Brisbane. They had previously
agreed in refusing a scheme offered to them by the Labor-
controlled Brisbane City Council, from its own lines to the
Stanley River dam.
In June a deputation from the six councils asked the
Minister of Works —after whom the new highway is named—
to grant a franchise. The deputation pointed out that the
supply was urgently needed by the councils’ rapidly-developing
areas, a development due largely to the excellent access facili-
ties provided by the new highway which bore so notable a
name. Mr. Bruce commended the councils for their fore-
sight and progressiveness, and —promised to place their repre-
sentations before his colleagues at the earliest possible moment,
as a question of Government policy was concerned.
The question of policy resolved itself into the fact
that, some 12 months before, Mr. Bruce had announced his
intention of consolidating Queensland’s electrical supplies
under a commission, and had gone round other States “inves-
tigating.” Either he had not yet “found time” to submit
a report embodying the results of his trips, or Cabinet had
not “had time” to consider it. Anyhow, the months parsed,
and the “earliest possible moment” failed to arrive. The
councils wrote, and received the customary evasive replies.
After five months had gone they sent along another depu-
tation. The Minister was so busy that he was quite unable
to meet it.
Under stimulus of press attention, evoked by the heated
remarks of some of the disappointed deputation, Mr. Bruce
explained that the deputation’s little lot formed only a part
of what was a State-wide question, and handsomely offered
to mention it whenever Cabinet might find time to go into
the general matter of electricity supply. From other of Mr.
Bruce’s remarks, it seemed that the councils were not going to
get any electricity until an Electricity Commission was set up
by statute.
So the six shires may have to wait a long time. If Mr.
Bruce has failed to get a hearing from Cabinet in 18 months,
it is very unlikely that, with Mr. Forgan Smith on another
jaunt to England, the matter will be settled before 1936 is
well advanced. An Electricity Commission will not be the
creation of moments or even of months.
Meanwhile, the inhabitants of the six shires, all closely-
settled areas near to Brisbane, can go on dairying and farm-
ing and otherwise making a crust without the electrical supply
which they are asking for. The £200,000 which the scheme
is estimated to cost will be kept out of circulation. The
unemployed men who would be given work on the under-
taking will just remain unemployed.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Exdig”: The queer-
est New Year’s greeting
I ever received was in
1918. We had dropped
into reserves on the
Mess i n e s Ridge at
Wyschaete when a
runner passed, making
for battalion h.q. He
turned out to be a
cobber who had been
transferred to divvy
h.q. At sight of some
of us he checked his
speed. “You blokes
heard,” he asked, “that
they’re getting ready
hospital accommoda-
tion behind the line for
a million patients?
There’s to be a big
stunt in the spring;
that means a quarter-
million blokes killed. A
happy New Year to
everyone!” After that cheery greeting
we settled down to enjoy breakfast.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: For “a flannel
gown from neck to toe” as woman’s
bathing costume there is no need for
“Flop” to go back to Fanny Burney (B.
4/12/’35). I can just remember them
myself. Their most engaging trick was
floating up into a mere scarf round the
wearer’s neck. Yet nothing could per-
suade the decorous matrons of the period
that any sort of decent knickerbocker
costume was other than “unladylike.”
* * *
“M. or N.”: In Sydney the other day a
degree nisi was pronounced against a
husband front-named Resolute William.
It suggests the possibility that his parents
had visions of his becoming a politician,
in which case his handle would almost
certainly have been a valuable asset. One
recalls Parliamentarians who have been
labelled Honest John by their supporters ;
a genuine Resolute William would be a
refreshing change.
“Showman”: In the 'Perth Traffic
Court recently one name called from a
long list of offenders led to a buzz of
interest. Disappointment; the defen-
dant did not appear. Insufficient brakes
was the charge, £2 the amount of the
fine, and the defendant —Julius Caesar!
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The risk of diving into
shallow water (B. 18/12/’35) always
needed to be guarded against in the
Murray River in the old days. Every
wide bend had its long sand-spit', the
ideal swimming-place in summer. At
Tapalin a big log on the downstream end
of the sand ledged a deep hole, and we
used to race down a 15ft.-high bank,
spring across the sand (about 10ft. wide
there), bound on to the log, and so in.
One summer, following a flood, we opened
the season as usual. First undressed, I
flashed down the bank and over the sand
to the log and dived —into 18in. of
water! The strong river had filled our
hole with sand. Meanwhile, the others
were puzzling how I could stand on my
head in 20ft. of water and wave my legs
about in the air. It was only when I
fell and was carried downstream, uncon-
scious, that they got busy.
* * * *
“Frinigga”: Hollywood knows all
about the “typical” Londoner. It is film-
ing Du Maurier’s Peter Ibbetson, and for
trial scene has requisitioned 12 jurymen
who must have “mutton-chop whiskers,
gingery hair and bony faces; who run
to teeth and foxiness of expression.”
* * *
“Pernam”: Another curious point
about Casement (B. 18/12/’35): it wasn’t
till comparatively late in life that he
showed any interest in politics. The hatred
of England which cost him his head seems
to have attacked him suddenly. For
21 years he served the Imperial Govern-
ment loyally and efficiently in the dip-
lomatic service, and he ended up as
Consul-General in Brazil. Retiring when
hardly 50 —an early age, but 20 years
in tropical regions had doubtless worn
him down —he became entitled to
a pension, and received a knight-
hood. It wasn’t until the Great War
started that he discovered and an-
nounced, to quote from one of his own
speeches, that “now is the time for Irish-
"Y' can't tell ME ’e gives ’er an extra chop for NOTHIN’.”
men to fight against England.” After
that he never drew his pension, and
doubtless would have divested himself of
his knighthood, too, had it been in his
power.
* * • * *
“Kwakprak”: Sydney has its first re-
ported case of psittacosis (or parrot
fever), apparently imported from the
Pacific Islands. It is a serious kind of
complaint, caused by one of the typhoid-
like group of bacteria, and having a high
mortality rate. It is not a “tropical dis-
ease” —there are really very few strictly
tropical diseases, and none of them is
of any great account as an epidemic
—and is contracted from parrots which
have become infected with the germ. The
first big recorded epidemic occurred in
London, beginning among people con-
nected with birdshops in the vicinity of
the docks. Since then it has been re-
ported from most other big European
and American ports, always in connection
with parrots. Maoriland, not very long
ago, stopped the importation of Austra-
lian parrots, in case psittacosis might be
introduced by them. It is very fatal to
other birds besides parrots.
* * * *
“El V.”: The pass lists of Sydney
University are enough to stun any be-
liever in the superiority of the male. In
the Faculty of Science almost every
pass list this year is headed by
a woman, though the sex is in
a minority at the University. In
geology, botany, geography, zoology and
organic chemistry the chief prizes and
over 80 p.c. of distinctions and credits
went to the so-called weaker sex. Often,
men did not appear in the distinction
and credit lists at all. The position
seems peculiar to Sydney. Is it that
N.S.W. is turning out a special brand
of feminine intellect?
* * * *
“Hellas”: Burges, magistrate for the
Northampton (W.A.) district, used occa-
sionally to hold court in the dining-room
of his property, The Bowes. One day
an abo. was convicted of some offence
and given a letter to deliver to Gerald-
ton, about 30 miles away, instructing the
local police to send the delinquent to
Rottnest Island. Abos. considered this
“paper talk” as something sacred, and
could always be relied upon to deliver it
safely. Consequently, the squatter-beak
was considerably surprised, a month
later, to meet the erring native on his
station. Binghi explained cheerfully that
on his journey with the “paper talk” he
had met his uncle. Feeling “tired
pfeller,” he persuaded his elderly relative
to deliver the message, and a slightly be-
wildered uncle was then serving six
months in the island prison.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Swinburne wrote some
great poetry—probably he made better
use of the English language as a medium
for melodious verse than any bard has
ever done—but what occurs to me, after
reading occasional articles about the
secluded life he led at Putney after Watts-
Dunton had rescued him from his earlier
dissipations, is what an excellent adver-
tisement he was for the merits of beer.
According to a recent commentator the
poet was weaned from brandy and cham-
pagne by skilful stages. First he was in-
duced to drink port by the argument that
this was Tennyson’s favorite tipple ; then
he was switched on to burgundy and
one or two other intermediates, and
finally he was induced to settle down to
honest malt and hops. Two bottles a
day was his allowance, the first at a pub
handy to Putney Common in the course
of his morning walk, the second at the
midday dinner. And for 30 or 40 years
he continued to enrich the world with
poetry under no other stimulus or stimu-
lant. True, it wasn’t quite such fiery and
unforgettable poetry as he had penned in
his hot youth and early manhood, but
it was far better than most, and brandy
and champagne would never have enabled
him to live to be an old man, as beer
did. It is a wonder the brewers have
never utilised Swinburne as an outstand-
ing. example of the virtues of Britain’s
national beverage.
“J.P.”: No doubt Mr. Menzies heard
his name pronounced “Mingies” in Eng-
land (B. . 18/12/’35), but this merely
represents the attempts of the South-
erners to imitate the Scottish pronuncia-
tion, for no Scot ever called it that.
According to the Oxford Dictionary, the
modern spelling is the result of a con-
fusion by the early Scottish printers of
the letters “y” and “z,” their tails mak-
ing them look alike. The correct spell-
ing is “Menyies,” which is nearer the cor-
rect pronunciation, though the Scotch
say it with a twang it is impossible to
reproduce in writing.
“Macbull”: “Wodgil” (B. 18/12/’35)
may be interested to know that the only
correct pronunciation of Dalzell in all its
forms (said to exceed a hundred) is
Da-yell, usually slurred to De-ell. It is
usual to drop the “1” in many Scottish
proper names. Colquhoun, for instance,
becomes Co-houn, and, though Dalzell
is usually spelt with a “z,” which would
make it Da-zell, the older and more cor-
rect spelling is of the Dalielle-Dalyell
species. The clan dates back to the
tenth century.
* * *
“Katib Gannit”: As one who also
ran at that Romani bombing I desire to
point out that “Marsh’s” version of the
happening (B. 18/12/’35) would be a
splendid one if it were correct in any
one particular. The brigade was not
lined up by the general or anyone else,
and there were no speeches. Also, there
was no stampede on the part of the
human personnel. This had been trained
for such an emergency, and the fact that
the ’plane went round to the east, got
right' into the rising sun and then glided
down with engines cut off caused the
surprise. The rush to lead out the
horses and the arrival of the first bomb
were simultaneous. As I have said, the
prads broke away and scattered over
the desert for miles. I myself, went as
far as Katia, some seven miles out. on a
barebacked pony before turning the
lead of one particular mob.
“S.W.K.”: Ever since
Lord Carnarvon and
Howard Carter ignored
that solemn warning of
an ancient faith,
“Death shall come on
swift wings to him that
toucheth the tomb of
Pharaoh,” and revealed
the mummy of Tut-
ankh - Amen to the
world, the demise of
every Egyptologist has
been attributed tb this
sinister influence. The
usually advanced age
of the victim is ig-
nored. Prof. Breasted,
the American, is the
latest victim who is
supposed to have in-
curred the Pharaoh
curse. Actually he died
of a throat infection
from which he had suf-
fered for years, and,
anyhow, he was past
70. The whole silly
business merely demon-
strates that the ancient
Gyppo priests were shrewd enough to
see that the best way of ensuring sacro-
sanctity for royal tombs was to play on
the superstitions of the herd.
* * :£ S
“Rus”: The cable staff at Cocos
Island may be an isolated lot (B.
6/11/’35), but I know a lone operator
who leads a far more hermit-like exis-
tence. He is quartered on Hicks Island,
off the Cape York mainland. Coastal,
Eastern and Australian-Oriental liners
pass within a few hundred yards of his
door. But, though near enough to hear
the ships’ bands and even to glimpse
dancing couples through a spyglass, he
never gets within hail of white men and
women except on the rare occasions of
trips to the 100-mile-distant Thursday
Island.
* * * *
“T. 8.”: The new Scotch maid was
hardly proving the domestic treasure we
expected her to be. To the table came
cutlets with frilled scanties of paper;
the Sunday joint was decorated in the
same way; even the kitchen shelves were
all draped with sections of current
periodicals. She never seemed to be
without a pair of scissors and a news-
paper—fancy doyleys, antimacassars and
table mats fell from her nimble clippers.
But the housework was obviously
neglected, so the missus felt bound to
protest at last. “What did you do before
you came to Australia, Maggie?”
“Please, m’m, I was a coffin-trimmer in
Glasgow,” was the astounding reply.
1936.
Step in, young Thirty-six! Once more the
season
Arrives, the good old immemorial time
To link a scrap of careless rhyme to reason
Or supplement the latter’s lack with rhyme.
Poets may do the first, bright stars whose
status
Among the world’s immortals will be
reckoned,
But we who’re short of the divine afflatus
Must needs essay the second.
Bowl in, young chap! The world is somewhat
brighter
Than when your predecessor came, you
know.
The burden of the years at least is lighter
For lots of us than twelve short months ago.
They hint'at war, the pessimists. They vision
Grim Mars again around old Europe stalk-
ing—
Let’s hopefully account it a misprision
And pray ’twill end in talking!
The ice that cracks too loud is seldom marking
Danger to those who read such signs aright;
The dogs whose specialty is barking
Are not infrequently the last to bite.
Such homely saws may seem a trifle musty,
But when was wine the worse for being
mellow?
And here’s a fervent wish you find them trusty
And frozen truths, young fellow!
There’s something in your multiple that places
You in the lucky-number class, I wot.
The threes go into you, I think, for Graces,
The nimble nines for Muses, is it not?
Ther two eighteens breathe of ideal lovers,
Young souls that coo like doves or chirp
like throstles;
And in the triple dozens one discovers
Thoughts of the Twelve Apostles.
And your six sixes, too, they hold their story,
A scintillating symbol from a game,
The proof transcendent of a batsman’s glory,
A seal that’s set upon a smiter’s fame!
As for the fours—step in or, rather, leap in,
Young Thirty-six, conveying the suggestion
That once again when lass and lad are deep in
The toils of love, and burning passions sweep
in,
The maid may pop the question.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“A.K.”: Swansea (N.S.W.) was being
buffeted by squalls. Out of the north
came a ’plane, rocking like a boat on a
southerly sea, the upper parts of the
wings at times being visible from the
ground. The pilot made several unsuc-
cessful attempts to climb ; forced to fly
low, he circled above the housetops,
looking for a landing-place. The lately
cleared reserve, which has a couple of
hundred yards of channel-bordered road
leading up to it, evidently looked the
most attractive, and he straightened his
machine out for the descent. While the
’plane hung low above the roadway the
public school came out, and through the
gates and across the reserve raced 300
excited, yelling children. The ’plane
dipped crazily, rose, turned its nose
north, and battled unsteadily back.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: I agree with “Ike
Hollar” (B. 18/12/’35) that N.S.W.’s Lee-
ton is a prosperous town, but he is wrong
in saying that the unemployed camp was
the result of difficulty in getting rid of
fruit. The cannery did not take less
stone-fruit in the depression, and the
railways did not take appreciably less
oranges, or the packers less almonds ;
the Rural Bank and the Commission and
the stores stuck to the growers as of old.
The town suffered for its reputation:
men came desperately to look for work
because everyone had heard of the place.
They stayed ancf got on the dole. The
cannery is now in full swing on the
apricots, but there is a crowd of more
than 100 men waiting day after day in
the futile hope of employment. There
is very little chance for outsiders, be-
cause local labor supplies the needs, even
in the peak times.
* * *
“Splodger”: Those fellows
can have it their own way
about smells being the most
potent memory-wakers. Give
me sounds. I was strolling
past a hall in which an old-
time dance was being held. In
a flick of time 1 was a kid at
Blackall (C.Q.) coming home
from school and passing the
back-street pub behind the
gaol and opposite a couple
of churches. It had been
raining. Two fellows were
fighting, rolling over in the
mud, picking themselves up
and continuing with that
utter lack of enjoyment
which characterises a drunken
bout. On the low verandah
of the pub, taking an aca-
demic interest in the fight,
was a fellow who must have
been an artist. Half-blithered
though he was, I never heard,
before or since, a better ren-
dering of “After the Ball.”
The same tune, coming from
the dance-hall, spirited me back across
the rolling years.
* * * *
“Beargrass”: Away back in the ’fifties
Melbourne got the habit of hanging
round the Elizabeth-street G.P.O. wait-
ing for the English mail, and, despite all
the changes and the march of progress,
Melburnians continue to make the steps
their seats, and gather every day of the
year as a sort of informal club. This
year a suggestion was made that the
G.P.O. stepsters might unite in com-
munity singing on New Year’s Eve. One
of the vagaries of the law is that if a
solitary singer, even though he could
croon like Bing Tauber, were to start a
solo he would be promptly run in, while
500 inferior vocalists are encouraged to
beef out their discordant notes in unison
with the entire tolerance of the
authorities.
* * ¥ *
“Scribe”: Thelma Todd, found dead
in a car at Santa Monica, California,
has gone the way of many American
beauty-competition winners. An analysis
of the subsequent careers of these
charmers was recently
published, and made
pathetic reading. Even
one or two of our Aus-
tralian prize - winners
developed megalo-
mania. One beauty an-
nounced that she would
apply the money to
furnishing a house for
her approaching mar-
riage, and would re-
tain her job until that
took place. Within
three days she changed
her mind, resigned her
job, told her mother to
get some hired help in
the house, instructed
her fiance to go to hell, and booked her
passage to another country by the most
expensive line she could find.
$ $ ¥ $
“Bray Rock”: The recent hairbreadth
escape of the Port Adelaide from col-
lision at 15 knots with an iceberg, in
Lat. 48 S., between the Cape of Good
Hope and Australia, is another reminder
of the extensive disturbance going on in
the Antarctic ice-cap. A second berg
was met with half an hour later. Ice
has also been reported in the Southern
Ocean, towards Cape Horn, far north of
the usual limits. The cold current which
sweeps up the coast of Chile seems to
have gone amissing, with the result that
the climate of South Chile has become
far milder than it ever has been since
white men arrived there. The Port Adel-
aide, by the way, was carrying Rem-
brandt’s picture, “The Philosopher,” re-
cently bought for the Melbourne Art
Gallery, and valued at around £20,000.
¥ .* * *
“Como”: A year after he was shot in
the neck by a burglar at St. Kilda (Vic.)
a man collapsed at his work last week, and
now lies in Melbourne Hospital seriously
ill. The most remarkable case of the
sort was that of a subaltern of the old
Fortieth Regiment, stationed in Mel-
bourne away back in the ’sixties. He
was endeavoring to get a fellow-lieutenant
to return from a city pub to barracks,
but the youngster was mad with drink
“Come on, Emily, for Heaven's sake!"
and fired at his comrade, lodging a bullet
in his head. Sobered up, he promptly
committed suicide, and the wounded man
was taken away to recover. Forty years
later he died, and the medical evidence
showed that the bullet wound was the
actual cause.
“Scribe”: When I was on the staff of
“S. M. Herald” I supped at the Cafe de
Fairfax—the coffee-stall at the corner of
Hunter and O’Connell streets which has
come into the limelight through the death
of Sister Olive, the faithful steed which
“Have you seen my Egbert? He
has a Wart on his nose.”
“I did see a Wart round here to-
day, lady, but I cant place it
at the moment."
towed it there. One night “Kodak”
O’Ferrall happened to be in the office,
and together we enjoyed our pie and
coffee at the Fairfax. It was the
first time “Kodak” had ever partaken
at a coffee-stall, and he was mightily
interested. A few weeks later his
story of the man who found a lioness
as he was eating at a restaurant on
wheels amused all Australia. It was his
visit to the Fairfax which had given
“Kodak” the idea.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. has one quaint idea
for celebrating its centenary. It's show
watering-place and ornamental front door
is Glenelg, and the seven miles between
Glenelg and the city have been fitted
with practically perfect bitumen. The
new idea is to copy the Port-road,
which has always had plantations in
the middle; they made a road down
one side and ultimately a twin to it on
the other. Two one-way bitumen tracks
for Glenelg will be very nice. Why
worry about the fact that the garden
between them must be made by picking
away the said perfect one now existing,
or about the £llO,OOO (estimated) which
in these distressful times is to be spent
on painting the lily?
“Saint Bruno”: Allow me to reassure
“M. Turlutu” (B. 11/12/’35) re the
monks of Chartreuse. They were not
involved in the recent disaster, because
they have not been at Chartreuse since
1903. When they were expelled from
France, along with other orders, the
Grand Superior established himself at
Pignerole in Italy, while the monks set
up a new monastery at Tarragon in
Spain, where they still produce their
famous liqueur but under the name of
Tarragone ; the right to use the original
name was sold along with other assets
to a private company. Incidentally,
Chartreuse is manufactured not at Char-
treuse but at St. Laurent du Pont, about'
five miles away.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Again, America
bursts upon a startled and delighted
world with a new drinking discovery,
this time in the form of canned beer,
sold in 12-ounce metal containers, with
opener complete, for 15 cents. Again,
too, as is so often the case with Ameri-
can “discoveries,” it is a rather-badly-
done copy of something which effete old
Yurrup has been using for years, and
just taking for granted. Motoring with
a German friend six years ago through
the Black Forest, I heard him say a
packet of beer would just about suit the
climate. From the car pocket he pro-
duced two cardboard boxes, fastened with
metal clips, and two tumblers. Digging
a knife through the corner of each, he
handed me one. It contained a litre of
excellent beer. The cardboard was
treated with paraffin wax inside, to
render it beerproof. I saw milk packed,
for delivery after sterilisation, in the
same way.
❖ i'fi Jjc
“Bert the Carpenter”: Gratitude for
a rescue from drowning (B. 18/12/’35)?
I was once nightwatchman on a Swedish
steamer at Port Lincoln (S.A.). Towards
midnight a crowd of seamen and stokers
came aboard in all stages of drunkenness,
and staggered aft to their quarters. The
next thing I heard was a splash and a
shout: “Vatchmans, vatchmans, a man
hass oferboard fallen! ” I raced down the
gangway and along the jetty, shedding
clothes as I ran, dived into the pitch-
black water under the steamer’s stern,
and presently found myself wrestling
with a powerful young Scandinavian.
The watchman from a Finnish wind-
jammer came to my aid, and together
we towed the Swede to the jetty stringers,
where we both got- some nasty cuts from
barnacles; the rescued party, having all
his clothes on, escaped such damage.
We hoisted him up with a cargo sling
and helped him to his bunk without get-
ting as much as a “thank you” ; my sole
reward came when I was climbing into
dry clothes and the steward arrived with
a bottle and announced “Der master says
you shall haff a glass of shnupps.” My
fellow-rescuer, I subsequently learned,
didn’t get even that.
A POOR RULE.
“When a girl sets your senses a-reeling,
My cobber would frequently say,
“Although you’ve the marrying feeling,
Just wait before naming the day.
No blame to your bright aspirations,
But think of the future, my friend;
So study her nearest relations,
And there you will find indications
Of how she’ll turn out in the end.
“Find out what her mother’s like!
Is she prone to childish folly?
Quick to get what’s called the spike
Or a prey to melancholy?
Has she “contract” on the brain?
Is she difficile and “arty”?
Or a leaning does she feign
For the Douglas Credit party?
Have a care! Sheer off her, brother!
For your sweet intended frau
May be much the same as mother
Twenty years or so from now.
“Her virtues, no doubt, are cpmmanding;
With her gay, irresistible smile
She looks to have much understanding
And oceans of breeding and style.
She’s charming—it’s useless to fault her—
She’s a dream, a delight to the eye;
But don’t rush your neck for the halter!
Before you line up for the altar
This test you should sternly apply:
“Find out what her mother’s like!
Is she just a bit ungentle,
With a tongue that’s quick to strike
And an outlook temp’ramental?
Is she sluggish, hard to move,
Or incorrigibly lazy?
Don’t forget that things may prove
Very much the same with Daisy.
Leave her, boy, and pick another,
Make your getaway somehow;
She’ll be much the same as mother
Twenty years or so from now.”
I swore that my cobber was crazy,
But there must be some sense in his plan,
Else why was I jilted by Daisy
Just after she met my old man?
N.S.W.
ABIE.


For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
20/,rl'6
10 for 9 d
J.855
THE
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CORK
PPED CIGARETTE
THIS GENERAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Anthony Eden becomes Foreign
Minister in place of Samuel Hoare, sac-
rificed for trying to make the best of a
bad business. There are fears, based on
newspaper photographs and reports of
Geneva speeches, that the new Anthony
will be tempted to drag the Empire into
a useless and preventable war. If he
does, he will deserve to be hanged.
The Australian defeat of a South Afri-
can team at cricket has prompted Great
Dailies to consider the political and
economic achievements of the Afri-
kanders. One says “they federated only
four years before the upheaval of 1914.”
They did not “federate,” though we did ;
they “united.” There is a world of dif-
ference, and it has all been in favor of
the Afrikanders.
A here unrecorded feature of the
change of Government in Canada was a
reduction of Ministers from 21 to 16.
Just previously Lyons and co. had in-
creased the number of Commonwealth
Ministers of State from nine to 10 (there
are four others), though it is temporarily
back at nine since Hughes was dismissed
for being right about “sanctions.” Of
course, the Ministers at Ottawa have a
great deal more to attend to than the
Ministers at Canberra, apart from the
population of Canada being nearly four
millions greater.
Lord Dysart died leaving an estate
valued at £2,104,000. The Chancellor of
the Exchequer took £1,008,000 in death
duties, and said that would do until the
next Dysart departed to another world.
Death duties are 50 p.c. on estates of
£2,000,000 and upwards, but a mere 40
p.c. where the value is £1,000,000 to
£1,250,000.
Melb. University Council has author-
ised the expenditure of £5OO on publica-
tion of a propaganda book aimed at
gathering largesse sufficient to ease its
financial troubles. Latham, C.J., who is
Deputy Chancellor, observed that if the
University expected to get money out
of the wealthy a dinner would bring in
more than a book ; anyway, they would
appreciate it more. His satire was lost,
and the £5OO heads westward.
Maoriland’s licensing poll presented
some strange features. Electors in no-
license areas voted on two issues—
national prohibition and restoration of
pubs in their own districts. Though they,
like the rest of the voters, were over-
whelmingly against national prohibition,
not one of them voted to restore the
pubs. A typical case is Oamaru: 600-
odd against national prohibition; 660-
odd against restoration of pubs.
Penny bus fares have been introduced
in Brisbane on 13 routes —by private
enterprise, of course. The buses deposit
passengers at municipal tram stops;
journey, approximately half a mile. In
Sydney Government-owned buses will
tug you a hundred yards uphill for three-
pence— threepence is the minimum
charge.
In spite of the vast Roosevelt expendi-
tures, General Johnston, the first of the
New Dealers, makes the astonishing
statement that there are still 10 million
unemployed.
Real public works are shown not to be
a device for employment. Invented public
works are proved to be a disguised dole,
costing three times what straight relief
should cost.
N.S.W. experience is much the same.
Though £10,000,000 p.a. of loan money
is being spent on “works,” there are still
46,960 registered unemployed. And Syd-
ney Water Board estimates are that relief
work costs 25 p.c. more than work done
by full-time men whose proper job it is.
Contriving to remember, for once, that
it is anti-socialist, the Stevens Govern-
ment is selling the State metal quarries
for £169,283 and the State Monier pipe
works for £35,999, and is considering an
offer of £162,025 for the State brick-
works. Socialists are, of course, raising
the cry that the unimportant concerns
are being given away. Meanwhile, the
anti-socialist Government is allowing its
Transport Department to inflict on N. S.
Wales a Government bus venture em-
ploying the best part of 1000 men which
did not exist when the last socialist
crowd was in office.
Munsie, the Westralian Minister of
Mines, spent part of the year in London,
and since then nobles and gents, who do
a bit in the guinea-pig line have been mak-
ing energetic attempts to get the loan
of his leg. They tell their shareholders
what a wonderful fellow Munsie is and
what great statesmen Australia must
have, seeing that Australia is content with
only about two bob in the £ (Australian)
of mine profits when the Afrikanders take
nearly half the gold premium (of course,
it isn’t put quite that way). Some Minis-
THE TEMPTATION OF THE NEW ANTHONY.
"It is expected that Mr. Anthony Eden, now Foreign Secretary, will be tempted to
accelerate the application of oil sanctions, even though Rome may regard it as an act of war.”
ters are susceptible to this form of flat-
tery, but it doesn’t seem to have had
much effect on Munsie; anyway, he has
very properly refused to continue the
exemption from labor conditions of the
iron-ore leases at Yampi. General adop-
tion of this policy would mean that thou-
sands of unemployed would get jobs
immediately.
Norbert Keenan, K.C., leader of the
Nat. wing of the Opposition, will prob-
ably be more of a thorn in the Govern-
ment’s side at the Westralian general elec-
tion than the amiable Latham, whose
C.P. followers outnumber those of the
city man. The K.C., who is being
opposed in his suburban electorate by a
lady, has an incisive tongue and a knack
of making the best of his briefs, in court
or out of it. It is seldom that a man
drops out of Parliament for over 20
years and then returns to make himself
a force in it; but Keenan is the excep-
tion. A stickler for principle (and for
having his own way) he has resigned from
two Ministries, and may yet have the
chance of forming one of his own. The
only point that may count against him
is his age—he was born in 1864.
Having legalised betting shops, the
Butler (S.A.) Government has found it
necessary to compensate racing clubs for
attendance and tote-revenue losses, a
great many shop wagers being on “events
in other States.” There was a sordid
scene in the House when Lacey, the
“Labor” leader, demanded 5 p.c. of the
amount to be distributed (£18,000) for
Tatt.’s Club. Butler replied angrily that
he had been told Tatt.’s “would be more
than satisfied with 3 p.c.” Lacey must
have set the telephone bells ringing, for
he thus came back:
The chairman of Tattersall’s has been
communicated with in the past few
minutes, and he says the club desires to
have the amount increased to 5 p.c.
With a hot reference to “double-cross-
ing,” Butler retorted that the club would
get 3 p.c. or nothing.
N.S.W.’s champion optimists are in the
State Cabinet, which has “decided to
give the Railway Commissioner (Mr.
Hartigan) every facility in carrying out
a vigorous policy of improvements”—by
handing him £6,000,000 of borrowed
money and agreeing to find the interest:
£BOO,OOO p.a. is already granted to the
Commissioner out of tax-revenue:
It is proposed to spend £6,000,000 in two
to three years. This will not be added to
capital debt, but will be repaid to the
Treasury within 15 years as a result of
economies in running costs.
The Auditor-General records that the de-
partment which is to repay the
£6,000,000 has piled up losses amount-
ing to £26,095,100 in nine years. But
then he’s no champion optimist.
Vic. Rail Chief Clapp has scored over
his critics by the success of his new
air-conditioned railway carriage in a
recent demonstration. It will be the
first air-conditioned carriage in the
British Empire, though they have spread
like a bushfire over America. Air con-
ditioning, which is a composite of ven-
tilation and temperature control, will
probably be applied to all the buildings
of the future. It has been a Common-
place in the theatres of the U.S.A. for
years. Whether the thermometer registers
100 or zero outside, the theatres are
always somewhere in the seventies,
according to local fancy. And this with
pure filtered air all the time.
A returned tourist’s remarks on
Russia:
Definitely 60 years behind the other
European Powers. The people sullen,
depressed, ill-clad and appallingly shod.
Conditions in Leningrad and Moscow defi-
nitely poorer than I saw anywhere else in
Europe. Though the authorities have
built large flats to relieve the congestion,
overcrowding still exists. My efforts to
see the inside of a workers’ home were re-
sisted upon every possible occasion. And
women sweep the streets.
A stiff-necked capitalist? No; Makin,
the patternmaker, who has been Labor
member for Hindmarsh (S.A.) since 1917.
A British politician who has suffered
for his disbelief in the League is Aus-
tralia’s old friend Amery, who was
Dominions Minister for four or five
years. Amery’s scornful opposition to
the Geneva show has, as an admirer
says, resulted in his becoming “an ineffec-
tive figure on a back bench, while men
with half his brains and a tithe of his
driving power sit in the seat of power.”
The admirer (Robert Bernays) is never-
theless a Leaguer himself ; he writes:
It is ludicrous for Amery to contend
that sanctions are of no avail in restraining
an aggressor.
It is the comment that is now ludicrous.
The Forgan Smiths are finding unem-
ployment-relief tax a first-rate money-
maker. On June 30 they had a balance
of £741,965 in the u.-r. fund; since then
they have squeezed out of Queensland
taxpayers £244,744 more than they did
m the same period of 1934 —this with
a much-advertised cut of Id. in the £
since October. Though the 1935-36 u.-r.
expenditure is estimated at £2,623,000,
loud claims are made regarding the
steadily-decreasing amount of unemploy-
ment. There is no apparent intention
of allowing the 1934-35 surplus to be
applied to taxpayer-relief.
Before long five States will be run-
ning lotteries ; at any rate, the S.A. Gov-
ernment is sending a commission round
the four States already lottery-ridden for
“information.” Nowadays S.A. politics
are largely concerned with useless forms
of gambling. It used not to be so in
the days of Kingston, Downer, Chaffey
Baker, Boucaut and the rest; but 55 p.e.
of the S.A. people now live in Adelaide,
and presumably it is thought that some-
thing must be done to keep the surplus
population from brooding on its griev-
ances.
On October 31 London “Times” de-
voted a column-long leader to “A
Statesman’s Speech,” the statesman being
Sir Samuel Hoare; and recommended
Mussolini to lap it up.
Let him listen to the authentic voice-
unemotional, balanced, lucid, resolute.
Let him heed in particular the Foreign
Secretary’s search for some means of
honorable settlement within the framework
of the League.
Not seven weeks later, when the Foreign
Secretary had, as he thought, completed
his “search for some means of honorable
settlement within the framework of the
League” the “Times” was foremost among
the pack howling for his head; and
Baldwin abjectly handed it over.
From a veteran unionist:
The ancient mariner who tried to warn the
seamen of the futility of the strike weapon
(U. 11/12/ 35) had views somewhat similar to
those of an old-timer who urged a meeting
of watersiders in ’27 to draw wisdom from
bitter lessons of the past. “Sit down, you
silly old ! ” was the brotherly injunction
of some young bloods. “We’ll show you how
to run a strike!” They did—and smashed one
of the most powerful unions Australia has ever
known. Bob Guthrie used proudly to assert
that no man had lost an hour’s pay through
strikes during his 28 years’ presidency of the
Seamen’s Union. What a difference there has
been in subsequent years!


" , "
Well have to watch our step Basic.
* !
&OLL.y "THAT WAS A.
MARROW escape . s '
d You KNOW, Basil , she's not too bad-Loo ki mo .
I think. Hl Let her speak to me "
There she is again . SUES siv\PL.y mv
FOOT STEP5 V ' ~ ,
* |
Looic out l here she is agaiM .
• ft v>
Watch how \ oo it,
9 t
'WsLli Shes ma<d her chance. ,
Lets* me. out \ *
YES. IT’S LEAP YEAR!


Ti
ie
Australia
c
tel
H
Vr
SYDNEY
N.S
Telegraphic Address: “Auslraotel, Sydney. 1
, f«
rfl
ill 11
,-cr
Pl®
n
in
in
nr l
IP
* <
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT-MARTIN-PLACE EXTENSION
First Three Floors now open!
THE NEW WINTER GARDEN—Glamorous
—enchanting—Sydney’s smartest rendezvous.
The BEVERY —Sydney’s newest and
smartest restaurant. Hours: Noon till nine.
Minimum tariff, 1/0. Afternoon Tea from 1/-.
Leading brands of liquors served on request.
THE MARTIN-PLACE BAR—only bar in
the area—with direct street-level access from
Martin-place
THE NEW BALLROOM—Beautiful in
Design—stately in proportions. Fine natural
lighting by day. Dance floor above criticism.
THE NEW BUILDING IS AIR CONDITIONED THROUGHOUT.
tht
m
m
‘Room Only” Rates: Single Room - 10/6 per day. Double Room - 20/- per day.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lord Lonsdale, who is giving up sport-
ing and shutting Lowther Castle, his
ancestral home, at 78 on the ground of
expense, is the inevitable master of
ceremonies at most big English sporting
events from Olympia to the Donkey
Derby. Boxing, hunting, shooting, horse-
racing, coursing, yachting are all included
in his interests. But the prize-ring par-
ticularly owes him a debt —he, not the
Marquess, was the author of the Queens-
berry rules.
PAUL VITA-FINZI, the Italian
Consul-General.
On his way to Australia after an
absence of over forty years is Jimmy
Quinn, the artist, who won the travelling
scholarship of the Vic. National Gallery
in the early ’nineties. Quinn has been
successfully painting in Paris and Lon-
don ever since. He made a name as
portraitist in London, turning out mam-
moth editions of canvases on which were
representations of suburban mayors and
minor members of the Commons. His
wife is a Frenchwoman whom he met in
his student days. His eldest son spoke
only French when his parents took him
to England at the age of twelve.
Some January birthdays:
Prof. Gilbert Murray, 70, Premier Stevens
(N.S.W.), 47, A. D. McGill, K.C. (Brisbane),
50, C’wealth Meteorologist Watt, 60, and Wing-
Commander Wackett, 40, on 2nd; F. G.
Menzies (Vic. Crown Sphcitor), 44, W.A.
Senator Carroll, 64, and Vic. Gov. Lord Hunt-
ingfield, 53, on 3rd; R. H. Croll (formerly
Vic. Educ. Dept.), 67, and Judge Lukin (Federal
Bankruptcy Court), 68, on 4th; Bishop Newton
(New Guinea), 70, and knight Fred Young
(one-time S.A. Agent-Gen.), 60, on sth; N.S.W.
Auditor-Gen. John Spence, 58, Edmund Jowett
(Melb.), 78, Prof. H. Tasman Lovell, 58, and
painter Arthur Burgess, 57, on 6th; knight
Graham Waddell (N.S.W.), 59, bird artist
Neville Cayley, 49, W. J. Hutchinson, M.H.R.
(Indi). 32, and baritone John Brownlee, 36,
on 7th; Alex. Hay (Coolangatta, N.S.W.), 71,
Federal Labor-leader John Curtin, 51, and
Delamore McCay (Syd.), 59, on Bth; artist
Sydney Ure Smith, 49, and Canon Crotty
(Melb.), 57, on 9th; Bishop Batty (Newcastle),
57, on 10th; W.A. Senator Johnston, 56, on
11 th * Vic. Tax Commissioner Chenoweth, 50,
Prof. Walter Howchin (Adel.), 91, knight John
Melrose (Adel.), 76, and Speck Hon. Min. J.
McDonald, 59, on 12th; Prof, knight D. Orme
Masson (Melb.), 78, and Essington Lewis
(B.H.P. Co.), 55, on 13th; Min. for External
Affairs Geo. Pearce, 66, and Edwin Cheel (Syd.
Botanic Gardens), 64, on 14th; shipowner
W. A. Mackay, 52, geologist W. G. Wool-
nough, 60, medico E. Angas Johnson (Adel.),
63, and J. H. Starling (P.M.’s Dept., Canberra),
53, on 15th; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Foott, 60, and
S.A.-born violinist Daisy Kennedy, on 16th;
E. J. Mulvany (Dept, of Commerce, Canberra),
65, on 17th; knight Clifton Love (Syd.), 68,
and painter John Rowell (Vic.), 42, on 18th;
platypus authority Harry Burrell, 63, Brig.-
Gen. J. Campbell Stewart, 52, and Rear-
Admiral Ford, 56, on 19th; K. R. Cramp
(N.S.W. Educ. Dept.), 58, Justice Webb (Q.),
49, Lt.-Col. Geoff Street, M.H.R. (Coran-
gamite), 42, and N.S.W. Min. for Labor
Dunningham, 52, on 21st; former N.S.W.
Premier Geo. Fuller, 75, Col. J. M. Arnott
(Syd.), 67, and Bishop Gilroy (Port Augusta),
40, on 22nd; Prof. F. Wood-Jones (Melb.),
57, on 23rd; Vic. Police Commissioner Maj.-
Gen. Blarney, 52, ex-Q. Agent-Gen. E. H.
Macartney, 73, Prof. J. F. M. Haydon (Can-
berra), 54, Richard Dangar (Coolah, N.S.W.),
68, Vic. Min. for Educ. Dr. J. R. Harris, 68,
and Ethel Turner, on 24th; Archbishop Wand
(Brisbane), 51, on 25th; Prof. A. J. A. Waldock
(Syd.), 38, Maj.-Gen. J. M. Antill, 70, W.A.
C.P. and Opposition-leader C. G. Latham, 54,
S. E. Lamb, K.C. (Syd.), 72, and Oscar Asche,
64, on 26th; painter Julian Ashton, 85, and Prof.
F. W. S. Cumbrae-Stewart (Bris.), 71, on 27th;
Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.), 46, Bishop
Feetham (North Q’land), 63, baronet Hugh
Poynter (Syd.), 54, A. Grenfell Price, M.A.
(St. Mark’s Coll., Adel.), 44, and G. B. Rolph
(Launceston “Examiner”), 43, on 28th; Wm.
Angliss, M.L.C. (Vic.), 71, on 29th; Bishpp
Norton (Bathurst), 45, E. L. Frazer (Vic.
Parliamentary Librarian), 44, weather-prophet
Mares (N.S.W.), 57, A. S. le Souef (Director
of Taronga Park), 59, and Prof. C. A. Scutt
(Melb.), 47, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Forster, 70,
baritone Peter Dawson, 54, Guy Innes (Melb.
“Herald,” Lond.), 54, ex-Judge Moule (Vic.),
78, J. S. Purdy (Syd. Health Officer), 64, and
entomologist Dr. R. J. Tillyard, 55, on 31st.
“Zeno”: Twenty-four feet of Towners
(two sisters and two brothers) met a six-
foot sister in Brisbane when she arrived
from San Francisco. Sister Towner was
on service during the war, going to
U.S.A. afterwards. Her father, E. T.
Towner, a Queensland pioneer, arrived
in Blackall (C.Q.) in ’76, and was among
the first selectors to take up land in the
district. At 79 he looks like ripping the
century. A brother, Edgar, V.C., M.C.,
is a well-known pastoralist and writer
on land matters.
Dubois has justly pictured C. V. Janes,
economist to the Bank of N. S. Wales,
as he looks when some young Douglas
Credit enthusiast is
trying to convert
him to the A + B
theorem. Janes
differs widely from
the ordinary man’s
conception of an
e c o n o m i s t —h e
knows his world,
has a wide experi-
ence of practical
things and was a
Digger. He is an
expert photo-
grapher, and can
do anything with
cement —he moulds
it to his will as a
good mahout does
his elephant.
John Allen, of
Milton (Brisbane),
is one of the old-
est Sydney natives
—born 1834. He
made a lot of money in the days
when he followed gold on Bendigo,
Ballarat and Lambing Flat, but lost it
nearly all. In his later working years, he
was in the Telegraph Department, and
helped to build a number of lines in
N.S.W. and Queensland. Ten of his 13
sons are alive, five being over 66, and
there are two daughters, 78 grandchildren.
11 great-grandchildren and—he thinks—
C. V. JANES, of the Bank of
N. S. Wales.
some g.-g.-grandchildren, but he is not
sure. Even a centenarian who gets up
at two o’clock most mornings to take a
stroll round the park is apt to lose count
of a fourth generation.
“El V.”:
Anthony Eden —he eschews his first name,
Robert —is rather like Australian Treasurer
Casey. Nobody could look at his ensemble
without realising that he was the kind of
officer and gentleman turned out only by
Eton and Christ Church (Oxon.). His family
has always prided itself on its Imperial connec-
tions. His elder brother is eighth in an English
line of “Sirs” from a merry gentleman whom
Charles 11. favored, and sixth from one of the
few baronets of U.S.A. He was the last
British Governor of Maryland, and was ele-
vated in 1776, when it was dangerous for any
Englishman to show himself around Baltimore
even under arms. The family also holds the
Barony of Auckland —the first baron was
Ambassador to France, and the second (and
only earl), G.-G. of India and First Lord of
the Admiralty, gave N.Z. a well-known name.
The new Foreign Secretary, who is only 38,
came to the Imperial Press Conference in Aus-
tralia in 1925 by virtue of his family’s connec-
tion with the Yorkshire “Post.” He showed
himself impeccably polite, though he some-
times had difficulty in remembering that he
must not speak of the “colonies,” and he
chose his company carefully. Mostly, it was
the equally immaculate J. T. Astor, cf the
“Times.” Burnhams, and Fairfaxes who
hailed from his Leamington constituency,
approached him softly, and his reputation was
buoyed by a tradition that he was a monu-
mental authority on Oriental languages. To a
mere onlooker, he looks a very lightweight
Minister beside Simon and Chamberlain, who
gave him his first start on the Foreign Office
ladder.
The war broke Martin CTMeara, V.C.,
who has died in Perth. Irish-born, he
enlisted in the 16th Battalion at 30. He
got his decoration at Pozieres in Sep-
tember, 1916, going out under machine-
gun and artillery fire to rescue wounded,
and afterwards carrying ammunition and
bombs through an intense barrage to
heavily-shelled trenches.
Judge Woinarski, of the Victorian
County Court Bench, is dead at 72. At
Melb. University, he was associate editor
of the “University Magazine,” his co-
adjutor being John Monash. He and the
late C. B. Finlayson, K.C., drafted the
Victorian Criminal Code and helped to
consolidate the statutes in 1915. A
barrister for 30 years, Woinarski had
been a Judge since 1918 —a kindly,
shrewd, bearded man, incisive in manner,
he was experienced both on the criminal
side and in insolvency and mining law.
One of his sons is associate to the Vic-
torian Chief Justice, and the other is at
the Bar.
The “British Empire Band Journal”
(London) reckons that a record of long
service which will be hard to beat has
been established by
four members of
the King’s Cross
Band, who have a
total of 176 years’
playing—47, 45, 42
and 42 years. But
four members of
the Launceston
City Band (Tas.)
can claim 185
years: T. Clark,
senior, 49 years;
P. Bryan, 47 years ;
Ches. Edwards, 46
years ; H. Clark, 43
years. And Jack
Edwards, the con-
ductor, joined the
band when it was
formed by Alex.
Wallace in 1876,
suc c e e ding the
latter as bands-
man. He is still on
the job after 59 years. Ches. Edwards
is the present bandmaster, and Jack
Edwards, junior, another son, has
been a playing member for 32 years.
The Launceston Band won the open
championship of Australia in 1887.
The case of an unassuming young
visitor, Viscount Bridport, proves how
time absorbs fame. He is a descendant
of a famous admiral: brother of Lord
Hood, after whom the biggest warship
in the world is named, and son of an
R.N.V.R. lieutenant who was killed on
Gallipoli. The present viscount followed
the family tradition and was in the
Navy for a time. His heir, who is an
81-year-old grand-uncle, once private
secretary to the Queen (when she was
Princess of Wales), is also Duke of
Bronte, a title which came into the
family through a niece of Nelson. Like
some other Continental titles, it is un-
likely to die out, since it is transmitted
by will.
Nobody more deserved “silk” than
T. S. Crawford, Quarter Sessions Crown
Prosecutor, who used to be a clergy-
man and was then M.L.A. for Marrick-
T. S. CRAWFORD, K.C., N.S.W.
Quarter Sessions Prosecutor.
ville (1910-17). Thousands of accused
in the barbarous iron-railed dock which
is retained in N. S. Wales courts have
looked with anxiety at his lean figure.
He is quiet, logical, detached —and kindly.
The weakling and the first - offender
always get a chance when he presents his
case; the vicious are sometimes sur-
prised at his scorn, and the man who
has made a mistake is often equally
astonished to find him, not a persecutor,
but a defender.
Maxwell Anderson, knight, who re-
tires from the C.J.-ship of Fiji, had an
unusual training for a Judge. He re-
tired as an R.N. officer at 30 to go to
the Bar after he had been thanked by
the Admiralty for his work on the Flora
Magnetic observation expedition to the
Pacific. When war broke out, he re-
joined, and finally left the service in
1919 as a captain. He was Attorney-
General of Gibraltar before he went to
Fiji. They take their Judges very seri-
ously in Suva —the C.J. there is probably
the only man on the Bench in the Pacific
who is dignified in the local press with
the*. courtesy title of “his Lordship.”
From “Awake, Arise! ”:
Paddy Lynch (Westralia) is tipped as a
likely recipient of a New Year knighthood on
the strength of his Senate Presidency. Indeed,
one Sydney paper has discovered that the dis-
tinction is overdue in Lynch’s case, seeing
that he is now in his second term of office,
whereas his predecessor, the late Walter Kings-
mill, was sprayed upon by the honor fountain
towards the end of his only term. Still,
Kingsmill had previously served a term as
President of the Westralian Leg. Council (1919-
22), and perhaps he was regarded as un-
lucky not to have snared a knighthood before
he entered Federal politics, for the handle has
always been associated with the office, sooner
or later, at Perth, just as at Canberra. Any-
way, if Paddy should decide on becoming Sir
Patrick, nobody will grudge it to him. He was
born 68 years ago in Co. Meath, Ireland, and
has put in 32 years of Parliamentary service
with a very scant share of the plums.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
’Plane Facts About Defence
If every able-bodied man in Australia
were an efficient and experienced soldier,
if our cities were ringed with fortifica-
tions, if our seas were patrolled by
warships, it would be insufficient to
prevent invasion by a formidable
enemy. If Australia, with its present
development and its present popula-
tion, were situated within striking
distance of Europe, as Europe under-
stands distances —say in Northern Africa
or Arabia —the war would be all over
bar shouting. As a free country, we
would cease to exist.
But Australia, fortunately, is isolated.
Its greatest protection is not sea power
but the sea itself. The “teeming races”
may be only 10 days off by oil-driven
craft, but those 10 days make all the
difference.
The almost fantastic development of
two forms of defensive armament—the
aeroplane and the submarine —has done
more to ensure the integrity of this coun-
try than any other imaginable thing.
Primarily, the aeroplane is a weapon of
offence ; the submarine is a weapon of
defence; but in Australia’s case the
offensive qualities of the aeroplane can
be turned to such advantage that, with
submarine co-operation, it should be
practically impossible for any foeman to
gain a footing on Australian shores or
for any hostile fleet to do serious dam-
age to our ports.
With sufficient modern submarines
scattered around the northern coast there
is little chance of any fleet, however
powerful, reaching the point where Aus-
tralia’s aeroplanes would be found neces-
sary to act. The range of the submarine
has increased tremendously since the war
days. It is almost possible to send one
of these craft on a world cruise now. If,
for example, the newly-constituted re-
public of the Philippines decided to
attack Australia it would be possible to
send submarines to intercept the Philip-
pine fleet almost to the heads of Min-
dinao.
Defence against both the aeroplane
and the submarine is still rudimentary.
During the war the capable aviator
laughed at the anti-aircraft gun, and its
improvements since are not to be com-
pared with the improvements in the aero-
plane itself. To meet the submarine
menace, invention has proved more suc-
cessful ; but, again, such counter-moves
have been worked out in terms of Euro-
pean warfare, not the warfare that may
threaten Australia. Our immense coast-
line admits of sheltering spots for sub-
marines which would be secret, not only
to the enemy, but even to our own
people. They would be able to lie in
wait as the Pathan lies in wait, with
his rifle, behind the rock in North-west
India, and to strike only when there is
certainty of success.
Associated with both services should
be a fleet—a large fleet—of small patrol
boats, the speediest which can be ob-
tained, to act as the eyes of Australia’s
defences, and over the whole there should
be a network of radio to maintain com-
munication with every unit upon which
we depend.— Mundus (N.S.W.).
Skyscrapers
While New York can plead with justifi-
cation that its confined area makes sky-
scrapers necessary, no such excuse can
be put forward on behalf of other Ameri-
can cities which encourage these mon-
strosities. Detroit has, on three sides of it,
the whole United States to extend into,
but it tries to go one better than New
York by shoving disproportionate build-
ings skyward. When I was there I had
a room on the 34th floor of the Book
Cadillac Hotel, and there were a few
storeys more above me.
San Francisco, which resembles Syd-
ney in its situation and its contours, has
also sinned, but only in a few instances.
Its Californian rival, Los Angeles, will
have none of skyscrapers, and has fixed a
building limit of 120 feet. In only one
case was this exceeded —when the City
Hall was built; and before it dared to
violate its own ordinances the council
had to obtain permission by a referen-
dum.
Sydney made a big mistake when it
extended its limit to 150 feet. Mel-
bourne, with its 132 feet, would have
done better to nave kept to the Los
Angeles figure.—G. Trotter (Vic.).
A Missing Thirty Millions
Dr. Farrelly, of Lismore (N.S.W.), de-
ploring the shrinking birth-rate, made the
amazing statement (according to “S. M.
Herald”) that “at the beginning of the
century it had been estimated that by
1930 the population of Australia, on the
then rate of natural increase, would be
37,000,000, whereas it was now only
6,700,000. Who was the super-optimist
that furnished the estimate? The popula-
tion of Australia at the census of 1901 was
under four millions —say about the same
as that of England and Wales in the reign
of good Queen Bess. And how long did
it take those four millions to increase to
37 millions? Answer, according to the
reference books: three centuries and a
half. Even in the U.S.A., in the period
“My missus is the most disagreeable Woman I know. Cant ever get
’er t ’ ’ave a row with me.”
when immigrants were swarming in from
all over the world, the utmost that the
population ever did was to double itself
in 30 years.— Oxmead (N.S.W.).
Union with the U.K.?
It would be well to regard seriously
Lord Apsley’s suggestion for the inclu-
sion of Tasmania in the United King-
dom (B. 25/12/’35). Tasmania is at
loggerheads with the Commonwealth,
largely because certain States —not the
Commonwealth —have become competi-
tors in the lottery business, which it for-
merly enjoyed as a monopoly. It excuses
its hostility on other grounds, but the
real trouble is due to the interference
with vested interests in gambling—for
which the Commonwealth is in nowise
responsible.
Lord Apsley’s suggestion is that Tassie
should secede and become part of the
United Kingdom, though how that would
help is not discernible. The United
Kingdom would not feel inclined to dis-
patch the British Fleet to shell the N. S.
Wales lottery headquarters or smash up
the Golden Casket. It would not increase
the apple export or the tourist traffic,
and Tassie would certainly be no better
off than she was under the iron heel of
a foreign satrap named Joe Lyons.
Lord Apsley’s idea is that as part of
the U.K. there would be a large influx
of British immigrants. It is not intended
that they should stay in Tasmania, but
eventually they would cross the Bass
Strait and help to pay Australia’s taxes.
Tassie, in fact, would be a sort of Ellis
Island —a rendezvous for intending
settlers in Australia —a spot for breaking
it gently to them that they were no longer
British citizens but Australian citizens.
The serious part of the business is that,
with a disgruntled people like a noisy
section of the Tasmanians, any sugges-
tion of a grievance is fuel to fire. It is
a bad thing for any place, especially if it
it is an island, to regard itself as a “most
disthressful country.”— Tattsmania (Q.).
Individualism Run Mad
Melbourne had another annoying
example of the lack of co-ordination
between its public bodies when all the
city lights went out and all the power
failed through an electrical breakdown
of the City Council’s plant.
When the State Electricity Commission
was formed, it took over all electrical
undertakings, public and private, save
only that held by the City Council, which
tenaciously clung to its pet lamb and
refused to fall in with the big scheme
for the public welfare. The State under-
taking has different distribution centres,
but they are all connected, so that if one
fails another may be switched on and
the black-out minimised to a few
seconds. But the council stands pat, and
will have nothing to do with the hated
rival across the way. The result was
shown when the lights failed, not only
in the theatres, broadcasting stations and
cafes, but —what was really serious—in
the big metropolitan hospitals.
Seeing the immense progress made in
recent years by the State undertaking,
the obvious course is for the council to
abandon its control of electricity and
permit the whole business to pass over
to the commission. If it refuses to do
so, Parliament has surely sufficient power
to enforce such an amendment of the
law.
In any case, the lives and property of
the people should no longer be endan-
gered by a division of the plants; there
should certainly be enforced a provision
for a connecting link between the two
systems.—G. M. (Vic.).
Wool and Germany
Synthetic wool is going ahead. In
1924 world production of it amounted
to 142,000,0001 b.; in 1934 in was
795,000,0001 b increase in 10 years
of over 550 p.c. Germany’s inability to
pay for wool has forced it to turn to
the artificial product, just as it was
compelled to use synthetic rubber during
the war years. Germany knows that
wollstra is not as satisfactory as genuine
wool, but the nation will put up with it
while times are bad.
Italy is following Germany’s example.
But the thing Australia has to
guard against is that artificial wool may
become popular because of its price.
Professor Katsumoto recently predicted
that' in six months Japanese would be
able to buy artificial-wool clothes at one-
third of the price of the natural-wool
article —inspired exaggeration, perhaps,
but a breeze whereby to observe the
straw’s direction.
At present all wool produced is used.
This may not always be so. Unless
world demand for textiles increases, it
is logical to assume that, with produc-
tion of fibre sharply rising, wool must
inevitably slip—gradually at first, and
then with increased momentum.
Complacent reassurance by graziers is
tantamount to a loud whistling in the
dark economic cemetery. Increased use
of artificial fibre can be prevented only
by publicity and propaganda at home and
abroad, and that with the gloves off. No
mere Wool Week that dies of inanition
before the opening speeches have dis-
solved into the ether, but a vigorous 52-
weeks-a-year campaign, stressing in par-
ticular the health benefit to be derived
from the wearing of pure wool, especi-
ally in the colder countries.
Wool at the present time is a remunera-
tive proposition, gloomy denials to the
contrary notwithstanding. Some of the
excellent profits now being made could
well be earmarked for a world-wide pro-
paganda campaign in collaboration with
growers abroad and with Bradford. It
would, in effect, be an insurance for the
continued prosperity of the industry.—
Quayeau (N.S.W.).
“Germany intends to embark on the
development of its wool industry.” This
is not bad news but good news for the
Australian sheepman. Fritz can’t have
much confidence in the prospects of
wollstra and other substitutes if he pro-
poses to spend a vast amount of money
—it would cost that —to build up the
flocks needful to supply the Fatherland
with clothing. As for the prospects of
its new industry, the experiences of South
America, Morocco and Russia haven’t
been such as would command loud
cheers. And Germany can’t get our stud
rams now, as the countries named did
in the past. — Bondi-ite (N.S.W.).
Case for the Civil Servant
Possibly an importation from Britain,
possibly a survival from early days, is
the customary belief that the civil ser-
vant is a well-to-do person who lives a
butterfly existence at the expense of his
fellow-citizen. When he asks for more
salary or improved conditions of work,
he gets no sympathy from anybody. The
person in comfortable circumstances re-
gards him as the cause of all the
blunders which are committed by poli-
ticians and as a parasite who battens on
the big taxes people pay. The pro-
letariat dismisses him as one of the
factors of oppression. His fellow-civil
servants are the only friends he has.
Figures just issued by the Vic. Com-
missioner cast a different light on the
position. These figures, by the way, do
not include the thousands of lowly-paid
men in the Railway Department, for
they do not come under the jurisdiction
of the Public Service Commissioner. If
they did, the average would be consider-
ably reduced. As it is, the report shows
that of the 18,584 civil servants in Vic-
toria 50 p.c. were paid less than £245 a
year—not so very much in excess of
the basic wage —74 p.c. were paid less
than £2Bl and only 4 p.c. more than £455
a year.
When it is remembered that it is not
as easy to get into the public service as
it is to secure a job in an office or a
warehouse, that it is necessary to reach
a certain standard of physique and a
fairly good standard of education, that
there is an age limit which prevents many
excellent men from entering the service
and that many public servants —for in-
stance, in the Education Department —are
forced to live where they are sent, and
often under conditions which amount to
camping, the pampered civil servant’s
lot is scarcely as rosy as its critics
assume.
The experience of the girl teacher in
Tiburon is far from exaggerated. Some
of the lives forced on women teachers in
every State are ghastly. Even with the
men the position is often far from com-
fortable.
Some of the criticism of lack of effi-
ciency in certain departments may be
well founded, but it has to be remem-
bered that inefficiency in a Government
department is always a subject for criti-
cism. In a private concern the customer
has to take it or leave it.— Grasspan
(Vic.).


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL II. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. Y. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulse or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Ivembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at our rent
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days oi receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and Dividend Tax
r -~ K — \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinarv. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 68,096 3000 16 p.c. = 49,310 ), r . q RI 090o 9 o k 9 q
AVritten off, £425 .. .. i 10,861
1926.. 74,503 3000 16 p.c. = 49,310 1 , QO - o 9 r, anq
Written off, £20,258 .. ] S 2o > ibo
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720.. .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. .. 405,029
1927.. 98,861 3000 16 p.c. = 54,659 ) 97 9n , 9 , 99 9 0-,
AVritten off, £14,000 .. 43.,.0l
Premiums on new shares, £14,957 .. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. .. 506,121
1928.. 124,917 3000 20 p.c. = 85,076 36,841 542,962
1929.. 112,652 3000 20 „ „ 85,090 24,662 567,524
1930.. 118,187 3000 18 „ „ 76,581 41,606 606,130
1931.. 69,929 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 7,366 613,496
1932.. 83,449 3000 14 ~ „ 59,563 20,886 634,382
1933.. 89,645 3000 14 „ ~59,563 27,082 661,464
1934.. 105,215 3000 18 „ ~ 76,581 25,634 687,098
AA r ritten off freeholds, £5OOO .. .. 682,098
1935.. 98,974 3000 20 „ ~ 85,090 10,884 692,982
Headquarters are in Melbourne, where
most of the shares are held, but the
profits are earned in Westralia, where the
co. has almost a monopoly of the trade.
To enable shareholders to avoid paying
two lots of probate, a new share register
has been opened in Perth. No duty is
payable in Victoria in connection with
transfers, but a duty of 1 p.c. is levied
on all share transfers in W.A. The
board has not yet made an announce-
ment concerning the issue of bonus
scrip ; about a year ago it decided not
to take any action in this respect until
pending litigation concerning premiums
on shares was out of the way.
Chief factor which has made possible
such a high nominal rate of dividend is
the corpulence of reserves —they were
visibly piled £217,528 higher than paid
capital at Sept. 30. Like the capital, they
belong to shareholders, who are entitled
to a fair return on the two combined. Of
the £475,454 of capital, £50,000 carries
a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. If the ord.
capital was doubled by the issue of
bonus scrip, raising it to £850,908, 10
p.c. thereon plus the pref. div. would
call for £88,090, or £10,884 less than was
netted last year, and £267,528 of reserves
would still remain on the shelf. On this
basis, the fully-paid 255. ords. at
£6 2s. 6d. would return 4 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. At 295. the well-pro-
tected pound prefs. return 4.1 p.c.
The consumption of beer in Westralia
was 20 gallons per head in 1911 ; it was
11 gallons in 1931-32 and gallons in
1933-34, and there appears to have been
a further increase since. For the 12
months to Sept. 30, the co.’s gross earn-
ings (£280,625) sprang £25,294. Includ-
ing allowances for depreciation, etc.,
exes. (£179,906) took £20,587 of the in-
crease. After allowing for reserve ad-
justments, the net result was down £6241.
Still, it was enough to pay the pref. div.
(£3000) and show 22.5 p.c. on ord. capital,
or 8.5 p.c. on ord. capital and reserves
combined. A couple of points were added
to the div., raising it to 20 p.c.
The 8.5 p.c. suggests that assets are
conservatively valued in the books. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1926. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages .. 45,144 21,148
Other liabilities* 85,614 119,371 105,866 148,937
Freehold and
plant .. 646,867 959,071 984,57 S 976,173
Mortgages .. 58,265 39,710 38,064 52,272
Stocks .. 61,798 50,234 49,083 56,918
Shares in other
cos. . . 6,897 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts. . . 60,471 65,817 72,596 76,645
Cash, etc. . . 6,269 50,827 47,910 87,687
*lndudes goodwills accruing.
Fixed assets figure at 60 p.c. of their
cost. Hotel freeholds, in at £697,999
(cost less £131,338 depreciation), account
for more than half the total book value
of all assets. Excluding shares in other
cos. (chiefly Castlemaine and Emu cos.’
scrip, bought in 1926 and 1927 respec-
tively), but including mortgages and
stock, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£124,585) was
£22,798.
Southern Cross Assurance
This co. was promoted by Thomas
Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500 in
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became managing director:
Ordinary Branch,
Excess Out-
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92,173 10,534 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3OOO .. 76,353
Surplus
June, Income.
1924 f.. 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 76,994
1925 .. 139,778 8,848 110,773 20,157 55,837
1926 .. 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
Funds.
1927 .. 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
192 S .. 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 .. 95,340
1930 .. 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
Australian Group Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £27,003 179,605
Added purchase account, £13,925 .. 165,680
1931 .. 221,139 40,599 113,733 66,807 232,487
Written off shares, etc., £11,138 .. 221,349
Added establishment account, £lO .. 221,339
1932 .. 195,736 61,389 91,499 42,848 264,187
Written off shares, etc., £11,617 .. 252,670
1933 .. 203,535 58,333 101,809 43,393 296,063
Written off shares, etc., £22,464 .. 273,599
1934 .. 195,719 61,518 91,424 42,777 316,376
Written off various assets, £15,498 .. 300,878
1936 .. 190,425 67,906 70,912 51,607 352,485
Written off various assets, £10,288 .. 342,197
flO months.
After 13 years of vigorous but very ex-
pensive campaigning, including purchase
of the A.P.A.’s S. African business, what
was left of the New Era (heavy lapses
and high costs crippled it) and the life
contracts of the Australian Group and
General, regular bonuses to policy-
holders and dividends to shareholders
were not in sight. Because of this and
other things, the board decided to
“restrict the costly writing of new busi-
ness for the next few years.” Last year’s
figures show that' it has made an en-
couraging start, though a lot remains to
be done yet.
Thus, despite the upward surge of busi-
ness activity generally, there was a con-
traction of £481,755 in the amount of
new business put on the books:
1930. 1934. 1935.
Proposals accepted 7,737 4,546 3,033
Total new policies .. £2,112,311 £1,215,359 £733,604
First premiums .. 58,954 35,908 21,624
Renewal premiums 147,537 139,412 143,459
Interest, rent, etc. 17,306 20,399 25,342
Total income .. 223,797 195,719 190,425
Still, excluding interest payments (£1948)
and Government taxes (£2322, down
£833), exes, got away with only 40.3
p.c. of the year’s net premiums as against
49.8 p.c. in 1934. A year ago the de-
clared aim was to reduce the ratio to
34 p.c. (still a high figure) by 1937.
The drop of £5294 in the year’s in-
come was the net result of a contraction
of £10,237 in net premiums (£165,083)
and a growth of £4943 in interest, rents,
etc. (£25,342). Claims were £6388
heavier, owing to a growth of £7OBl in
surrenders and lapses (£27,946); exes,
ivere got back £20,512. Of the £51,607
that remained, £41,319 was added to the
Life fund (now £600,846); the other
£10,288 was used to reduce the book
value of some of the assets.
The co. assumes that its investments
will net 4 p.c. on its Life fund. After
deducting the tax bill, last year’s net
effective rate on the mean fund was
£4 2s. 3d. as against £3 13s. Id.
for the previous term. The mortality
experience was 58 p.c. of the actuarial
expectation as against 63 p.c. for the pre-
vious year.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1931. 1934. 1935.
Freeholds, etc. .. .. £199,823 £232,597 £329,199
Equipment .. .. 24,285 23,526 21,123
Govt, securities .. 138,090 129,368 129,368
Mortgages, etc. .. 76,174 63,321 42,361
Loans on policies .. 22,194 64,419 75,539
Shares other cos., etc. 13,885 24,965 32,566
Book debts . . . . 90,334 74,847 71,490
Cash 12,987 5,349 5,446
Tangible assets .. £577,772 £618,392 £707,092
Liabilities* . . . . 55,622 18,253 65,482
Net tangible assets .. £522,150 £600,139 £641,610
* Other than under policies.
The growth in net tangibles was £41,471.
Assuming that the Life fund exactly
covers liabilities under policies, and that
tangible assets are all worth their book
value, then £259,236, or the whole of
the ord. capital and 3s. sd. per pref.
share, was unrepresented by tangibles.
Government securities and shares in
other cos. appear at less than market
value, the chairman says, but the £10,288
written off, making the total sum used
in this way over the last five years
£70,905, suggests that it is the other
way around with some of the remaining
assets. The board has adopted a policy
of property purchase ; £96,602 was added
to the book value of freeholds, etc., and
£47,229 to the outside debt.
Provided the management is success-
ful in its war against costs, the outlook
for both policy-holders and shareholders
is brighter than at any time since the co.
was formed 14 years ago. The history
of the A.P.A., and before it of the Aus-
tralian Metropolitan Life, shows what can
be done with a life office that hangs back
in the traces. The best assistance policy-
holders can give the management is to
maintain their payments.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Aug., 1925. .25,291 124 p.c. = 15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926..25,347 121 „ „ 15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926.-28,446 15 „ „ 18.900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927..28,316 12* „ „ 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug., 1927..28,378 12* „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 .. 179,457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 12* „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,737
Feb., 1929.-28,503 12* p.c. = 15,750 l 7
Staff fund, £2OOO .. 207,490
July, 1929. .24,071 22* p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930..29,016 15 „ „ 18,900 I Q , 1R 9 ,„ , 97
Staff fund. £lOOO .. ..j 9,116 212,327
July, 1930..22,285 12* p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931..21,437 12* „ „ 15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
July, 1931.. 16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763
Jan., 1932..19,491 9 „ ~11,340 8,151 239,914
July, 1932. .18,490 10 „ ~12,600 5,890 245,804
Jan., 1933.-20,873 10 „ ~12,600 8,273 254,077
July, 1933..19,281 10 „ „ 12,600 6,681 260,758
Jan., 1934..24,326 12* „ „ 15,750 1 »
Staff fund, £lOOO .. 7,576 268,334
July, 1934. .25,230 12* p.c. = 15,750 l al ,
Staff fund, £lOOO .. _ j 8,480 276,814
Reserves capitalised, £63,000 .. 213,814
Jan., 1935. .26,235 12* p.c. = 19,688 6,547 220,361
July, 1935..28,854 12* „ „ 19,688 9,166 229,527
Shareholders in this stoutly-ribbed con-
cern, which runs a chain of drug stores
in Sydney, have fared very well. Over
the 23y years to the end of January, 1931,
divs. averaged 14.4 p.c., sweetened with
£102,000 of bonus scrip, scattered during
the half-dozen years to the end of 1919.
Slump brought the rate down to 9 p.c.,
but 12y p.c. has been received for the
last two years, and another £63,000 of
reserves was capitalised, one for four,
at the end of 1934, making 12| p.c. worth
15.6 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the gift. Of the £315,000 of capital
£165,000 is bonus scrip.
The market, which likes the co.’s pros-
pects, has lengthened its bid for the pound
shares from 695. to 725. over the last
six months. At the higher figure the
return is 3.4 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for a shade over
4 p.c. on his money counts on a 1.5 p.c.
distribution. The £55,089 (up £5533)
netted for the 12 months to the close of
last accounts was 17.4 p.c. on capital.
The co. enjoys an unusually strong
position; manufacture of much of its
own requirements, large-scale buying and
the hoarding of surplus earnings and
other moneys have combined to set it
there. During the last half-dozen years
surplus earnings and the sale of free-
holds (some of them were picked up
cheap early in this century and sold
before the boom burst) left the co. with
more money than it could find em-
ployment for in the business. The posi-
tion in this respect, however, is improv-
ing, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
July,’3o, July,’32. July,’34. July,’3s.
Paid capital. . £252,000 £252,000 £252,000 £315,000
Sundry creditors,
etc... . .. 41,663 52,091 60,831 69,654
Premises, stock,
plant, etc. 195,921 139,635 127,721 125,155
Book debts .. 159,034 151,798 89,454 88,869
Public securities 175,170 239,306 304,564 278,314
Cash, etc. .. 8,523 24,394 43,951 10,534
Shares in other
cos., etc. .. 3,627 21,361 55,705 146,990
During the last term £91,291 was added
to shares in and advances to other cos.,
chiefly the two subsidiaries —Soul-Pattin-
son (Newcastle), Ltd., and Soul-Pattin-
son (Laboratories), Ltd. Cash was drawn
upon for £33,417 and Government secu-
rities (now £278,314 = 17s. Bd. per share)
for £26,250, while £8823 was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc. —what the etcetera is the published
accounts don’t disclose.
The immediate outlook and movements
in the figures favor continued expansion
of earnings.
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends
0 p.e. Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 p.c. = 692,684 43,744
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 „ ~696,354 45,182
Co. reconstructed; shares in sub-
-12 m’ths sidiaries written up £2,324,131,
to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 6* p.e.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929.. 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ ~894,791 27,608
1930.. 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ ~976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ ~650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 34,771
At the end of October this co.’s
£9,619,186 of capital, £34,771 of re-
serves and £44,099 coming to sundry
creditors were invested £7,722,192 in
shares in tobacco-manufacturing sub-
sidiaries, £1,960,590 debtors’ and debit
balances (mainly advances.to the pups)
and £15,274 cash. The subsidiaries com-
prise W. D. and H. O. Wills (paid capital
£6,112,465), British Australian Tobacco
(paid capital, £7,150,918 —a combina-
tion of the Cameron and part of the
Dixson businesses) and the States
Tobacco Co. (paid capital, £303,418 —it
embraced Sutton’s, and Jacobs, Hart and
Co. and the other part of Dixson’s busi-
ness). They all decided to go on the
market together in 1903 ; S. T. Leigh and
Co. (paid capital, £233,985), the printers
and carton-makers, were sandwiched in
later. Altogether they have been such
a vigorous and profitable lot that,
although the curtain remains drawn over
their figures, the business has earned for
itself the reputation of being one of
Australia’s most prosperous organisa-
tions ; and the parent’s scrip is among
the leaders in the market.
For 13 years to the close of accounts
in 1927 a steady 12 p.c. div. was paid,
sweetened with £628,591 of bonus scrip.
Then a two-for-five gift to the ords.
(£2,324,131, provided by writing up the
book value of shares in other cos.) lifted
capital to its present figure in 1,484,727
6\ p.c. cum. prefs. and 8,134,459 ords., and
the ord. div. dropped to 10 p.c.; it rose
to 12 p.c. again in 1930. Slump brought
curtailment of expenditure on smokes,
competition sharpened, the spring in ex-
change, income and other taxes and
alterations in the tariff swelled outgoings,
and the div. dropped to 6 p.c. and has
remained there for the last four years.
Over the same period, the holding co.
has shown level profits of £585,000-odd,
or 45 p.c. less than the 1930 figure. The
board, however, continues its assurance
that disclosed profits do not include un-
distributed earnings of the subsidiaries,
whose turnovers can safely be said to
have lately improved.
At 395. 9d. the pound ords. return 3
p.c, on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on an 8 p.c. distribution,
which, together with the pref. div., would
call for £747,263, or a trifle less profit
than was claimed in 1931. The well-
protected prefs. at 30s. return 4.3 p.c.
Western Australian Insurance
To
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ ■
1925.. 134 5 p.c. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59.821 5 „ „ 5,000 54,821 353,449
T.oss.
1928.. 42.773 Nil 310,676
From Life fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
Surplus.
1930.. 13,874 Nil 13,874 282,291
1931.. 10,899 Nil 10,899 293,190
1932.. 8,890 5 p.c.= 5,000 3,890 297,080
1933.. 11,590 5 ~,, 5,000 6,590 '303,670
1934.. 10,513 5 „ „ 5,000 5,513 309,183
Profit on sale investments, £4265 .. 313,448
Loss.
1935.. 5,582 5 p.c.= 5,000 302,866
tlneludes reserves for unexpired risks, but not
Life fund (£180,222 at June 30, 1935).
Over the last decade divs. have aver-
aged 3 p.c. p.a. Better might have been
expected, considering that, apart from
the Life Assurance fund (£180,222), the
£lOO,OOO of share capital had the sup-
port and assistance of £302,866 of re-
serves at June 30 last; and over two-
thirds of shareholders’ funds was repre-


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin. Place, Sydney.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * #
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * # *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 193-5 General
Catalogue.— Advt.
Mining Notice.
ADELONG GOLD ESTATES
NO LIABILITY
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared on
all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 24th day of January, 1936.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the 14th day of Janu-
ary, 1936, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Thursday,
the 16th day of January, 1936, and the divi-
dend will be payable to shareholders registered
in the books of the Company on Wednesday,
the 15th day of January, 1936.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
R. V. WILSON,
Manager.
Melbourne, December 17, 1935.
For Sale.
ENTERPRISE GOLD MINES, N.L., have
been mining at Gympie (Q.), but are now
in process of liquidation. Tenders, either
cash or terms, close on TUESDAY, Janu-
ary 14, for a 10-head Battery, Boiler,
1251 b. pressure, 25-h.p. Engine and
sundry equipment, at 430 National Bank
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Said a Jubilee-gazer called Stamp,
“ I perched for .two days on that lamp.
If I’d only had near me
Schweppes Tome to cheer me,
I should not have contracted the cramp.”
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- tjvu -tfoird
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
sented by Government securities, mort-
gages and freehold properties. The fact
is that the management has had no luck
with other lines since the flood of war-
time marine business subsided —this had
sent the co.’s premium income from a
few thousands to over a million, all in-
side its first half-dozen years to 1918.
During the five years to the close of
accounts in 1925 losses (marine under-
writing is a long-winded business), to-
gether with the special demands of the
taxgatherer and adjustment of the book
value of securities, swallowed nearly half
a million of reserves, reducing them to
£257,483. At the close of last accounts
shareholders were visibly £45,383 better
off than in 1925. The Accident branch
was the most troublesome, owing to the
unsatisfactory nature of motor-car insur-
ance, including elaborate extensions of
third-party risks, etc. Here is a compari-
son of underwriting figures for the three
departments (fire, accident and marine)
combined:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1918.. 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,341 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 „
1930.. 170,969 105,502 65,772 61.7 „ 38.4 „
1931. . 139,229 89,549 53,017 64.3 „ 38.0 „
1932.. 133,768 84,907 49,723 63.5 „ 37.1 „
1933.. 138,761 85,049 50,597 61.3 „ 36.4 „
1934.. 152,907 97,076 55,644 83.4 „ 36.3 „
1935.. 168,767 129,397 54,886 76.6 „ 32.5 „
The result of last year’s operations was
a loss of £15,516 compared with sur-
pluses of £lB7 and £3115 and a loss of
£862 for the three preceding terms.
Claims were the trouble, as they usually
are where reinsurance bulks largely in
premium income.
Here is a more detailed account of last
year’s trading:
Net
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss.
Fire .. .. £36,578 £22,616 £17,643 £3,581
Accident . . 57,640 34,044 26,783 3,187
Marine .. 74,549 72,737 10,560 8,748
Net underwriting loss .. . . .. £15,516
Interest, etc. .. .. .. .. 9,834
Net loss .. .. . . .. .. £5,682
In 1934 the marine business showed a
surplus of £2195, and the fire department
a surplus of £534. In the Accident
branch the co. has paid in claims and
exes. £152,562 more than if has received
in premiums over the last eight years.
After deducting taxation, the year’s in-
terest and rents, etc., were equal to 9.8
p.c. on capital. That leaves out of the
reckoning a profit of £4265 on the sale
of securities—Government securities
were down £12,844.
Policy-holders are well protected:
1920. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Public securi-
ties. . .. £144,211 £159,582 £156,186 £143,342
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 264,043 296,402 323,166
Properties . . 68,584 22,635 22,433
Book debts, etc. 230,564 47,656 58,741 63,659
Cash. etc. . . 295,808 34,556 87,468 73,881
Odds and ends 5,753 5,935 7,960 8,140
Total assets £1,026,936 £580,356 £629,392 £634,627
Liabilities* .. 141,715 72,594 45,028 46,539
£885,221 £507,762 £584,364 £588,088
including provision for taxation (1929-35, £2000).
Apart from the Life fund, net tangibles
were equal to 238 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
Modern Hotels, Ltd.
One thing Sydney lacks is a modern
non-licensed hotel within the fashionable
residential area of the city. This co. is
being formed to fill that want. Nominal
capital is £250,000 in £1 shares, of which
164,000 are offered, payable 2s. each
application and allotment and the bal-
ance in monthly calls of 2s. each. The
vendor takes £15,000, one half cash and
the other half in fully-paid shares for
a block of land in Hunter-street (front-
age 115 ft., average depth 165 ft.), next to
the City Mutual’s new building, now in
course of erection.
The intention is to put up a building
to be known as “The Governor Game,”
containing 400 bedrooms, all equipped
with hot and cold water, telephone, etc.,
together with lounges, dining-room,
kitchen and other offices, including lifts.
Altogether accommodation will be avail-
able for over 500 guests. Capital re-
quirements are figured at £264,000 —land
and building, including architect’s fees,
etc., £195,000 ; furniture and other equip-
ment, £35,000; establishment charges,
£lB,OOO ; working capital, vendors, etc.,
£16,000. That means that the co. pro-
poses to go outside for £lOO,OOO, pre-
sumably on mortgage.
Annual revenue is estimated at
£103,660, based on a moderate inclusive
tariff of 15s. per day for 200 rooms, 17s.
6d. per day for 175 rooms and 425. per
day for 25 luxury suites. Allowance is
thus made for 20 p.c. of the rooms
(= 40 p.c. of guest capacity) being always
unoccupied. Including interest on mort-
gage (£5000), depreciation (£5500) and
income tax, etc. (£12,000), exes, are
figured at £80,797, leaving a net profit
of £22,863, equal to 13.3 p.c. on a paid
capital of £171,500.
Subject to economic developments, the
co.’s prospects of being able to pay divs.
at an early date look fairly encouraging ;
much will depend upon the management.
The experience of the old Victoria and
of the recently-erected Chevron, both in
Melbourne, show that this class of busi-
ness is profitable there.
On the board are F. E. Barraclough,
M. S. Stanley, F. Grose and G. M.
Foster (managing director).
The gold-bearing gravels in Oriomo
Exploration’s consolidated areas, Man-
dated Territory, cover some 16 acres of
river beds and 80 acres of terraces. On
the southern portion of the river gravels,
v/hich are regarded as representative of
the whole area, values are very patchy,
ranging from Is. to 20s. per cubic yard.
The depth of wash varies from about
18ft. to 34ft. The average value of the
whole area will depend upon the fre-
quency of the richer concentrations, to
establish which a lot more close boring
will be necessary. The co. will begin
dewatering the old Inglewood leases,
Gympie (Q.), within the next few weeks.
Here the reef extends for two miles,
proved most of the way by shafts down
2350 ft. On an output of 5000 tons of
ore monthly, the co. figures on a profit
of 13s. per ton ; that is on an estimated
4.sdwt. extraction, with costs at 255. per
ton.
* * * *
Following the find of gold on the Jane
River, West Coast (Tas.), two more
prospectors have come in with some 20oz.
from the vicinity of Mainwaring River,
about 50 miles south of Macquarie Har-
bor and 30 miles north of Port Davey.
Right down the west coast there is
a strip of broken plain country where
the geology is as mixed as anywhere in
that jigsaw puzzle known as Tasmania.
Coal measures, limestone, conglomerates,
slates, schists, serpentine and granite out-
crop everywhere. Gold and small copper
deposits have been found before, but the
country has never been thoroughly
prospected.
* * H= *
For the year to Sept. 30 last, Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) produced 26,399 tons of
pyritic concentrates, assaying 48.92 p.c.
sulphur. The concentrate, obtained by
flotation of failings which previously
went to waste, is sold to Commonwealth
Fertilisers and Chemicals, Melbourne, for
use in the manufacture of sulphuric
acid.
4* * * *
Moyston Gold has been formed in
London to take over and work Camp-
bell’s Reef Mines, Moyston (Vic.).
Nominal capital is £150,000 in ss. shares,
of which 200,000 paids go to the vendor
in part payment of the purchase con-
sideration, and 400,000 are offered. W.
D. Reid and F. A. Rich figure the length
of lode within the co.’s leases at 4000 ft.,
average width 2|ft., assaying 20dwt. per
ton. The five old shafts on the property
are down between 400 ft. and 540 ft. It is
proposed to sink the main shaft another
500 ft., and to erect a 400-ton-a-week
treatment plant. Mining, development
and treatment costs are not expected to
exceed 40s. a ton.
4= * * *
For the last two years Marvel Loch
Gold Development has been opening up
three parallel low-grade lodes at Marvel
Loch, about 15 miles south of Southern
Cross (W.A.). Development, partly com-
pleted to the 200 ft. level, has disclosed
212,000-odd tons, averaging over sdwt.
Prospects of developing further ton-
nages of pay-ore are encouraging. Erec-
tion of a cyanide plant to treat 4500 tons
monthly (on this basis about four years’
ore supply is measured up) is nearing
completion. Since all-in costs are esti-
mated at 205., ore assaying 2.sdwt. or
more should be payable. Down to the
100 ft. level, and lower in some places,
the ore is mostly kaolinised and soft;
further down it hardens.
&
Paringa (W.A.) begins the new year
with a whoop about the prospects of its
Kalgoorlie mine. Prior to 1933 little ore
had been extracted from the property,
which was numbered among the dead
of the Golden Mile. Then the price of
gold soared, and the mine was soon
resurrected. Cash was found by the issue
of new shares for development, and
further capital was recently raised by the
issue of more shares for installation of
a 5000-ton-a-month treatment plant.
Chairman Beale is expected to arrive
from London early in the year. Ore
reserves are put at 70,682 tons (31,458
tons proved, 39,224 tons probable), aver-
aging sdwt. 21gr. Costs are not ex-
pected to exceed 245. 6d.
* V * #
William Campion and Claude de Ber-
nales returned to Perth before Christmas
impressed with the progress made in the
development and equipment of the De
Bernales group, of which Australian
Mines Management and Secretariate,
Ltd., is boss. Some of the properties,
now nearing the producing stage, are
expected to give a good account of
themselves.
* * ♦ *
Murchison Gold Development, one of
De Bernales’s Westralian group, records
a loss of £3330 to June 30 last'. Beyond
a little diamond-drilling and surface pros-
pecting, in new and old workings, no-
thing much in the way of mining has
been done by the co. on its Riverina
and Waroonga properties, at Mulline and
Lawlers respectively. Work is to be
speeded up. Cash in hand exceeds
£lOO,OOO, and there are options over
400,000 ss. shares, exercisable at par,
until June 30, 1936.
* 4= *
Tindals (W.A.), which has a six-figure
working capital in sterling, announces
that it will kick off again early this year.
The old main shaft is to be deepened
to 1000 ft., and if developments match
anticipations a 12,000-ton-a-month plant,
to be increased later to 40,000 tons, is
to be installed.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ned Kelly”: It was a shooting party,
and Steve was slightly inebriated. As
usual when in his cups he gave voice
to the workings of an acute inferiority
complex. “I’m no good,” he wailed. “I
never was no good. I ought to be shot.”
His offsider, Bill, agreed. “For Gawd’s
sake, someone, shoot' him then, and put
him out of his misery.” Jim pointed his
unloaded gun at Steve, and at the same
time Jack, behind Jim, pulled the trigger
of his own loaded gun. It’s hard to say
who received the bigger shock. We were
untroubled by further requests along
those lines from Steve.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: What is Australia’s best-
flavored fish? I plump for Tasmanian
sea-carp, steamed. Second comes tailer,
not over 2|lb., kicking from the 1
sea, bled, bonelessly filleted and
grilled, with good butter to baste
it. A good third is surf-caught sea-
mullet in full roe or milt, grilled
or boiled. With boiled or steamed
fish, the natural accompaniment is
real white sauce —no condensed-
milky mess, but genuine parsley
butter, made with fresh milk and-
butter, flour, lemon-juice and fine-
chopped dry parsley. Two tips in
making it. Never use a metal
spoon to stir it—always a wooden
one ; and don’t put it on the fire
after the flavorings go in. Grilled
fish is best without sauce, but, if
one is demanded, then anchovy
butter. Come on, you sea-food epi-
cures —what about it?
“Snubber”: Dalgety’s Townsville
manager, V. E. Day, deplores the absence
of wild-life in Australia. During a
motor-trip from his office to Adelaide
he saw only a handful of animals and
birds. I can join in his regret. I have
made three motor trips between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and two between
Melbourne and Adelaide (and return >,
over different roads each time, and the
whole of the wild-life visible was a few
flocks of cockatoos, herons, one or two
parrots, one snake and one goanna. I
didn’t see a ’roo.
* * * v-
“Squalus”: Sandgate (Q.) was treated
to some real excitement the other day
when a shovelnose shark took on a tiger
shark in an all-in scrap. Perhaps it was
the other way about, for the toothless
shovelnose had Buckley’s with the savage
tiger. After a short flurry the tiger
disappeared, and the head end of his
adversary floated ashore. This half was
about 6ft. long, and had been cut off
at one bite.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Last survivors of the
grasshopper plague are being poisoned
and flame-swept on the hills near Bina-
long (N.S.W.). The plague moved east-
ward while it lasted, and the contention
that the hills would stop it proved cor-
rect. The ’hoppers hatched out in that
one spot in millions, and trouble may
have followed had it not been for the
prompt action of Sargent and some col-
leagues, who used arsenised bran and
flame-throwers.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Australia’s troubles with
shifting deserts and eccentric weather
appear to be part of an extensive series
of changes in the Southern Hemisphere
generally. Of late years the great
Peruvian current which sweeps up from
the Antarctic to Chile has practically
ceased to function. Prevailing winds
have changed from westerly to easterly
quadrants, average temperatures have
risen, and rainfall has increased to un-
precedented figures. Warm-climate farm-
ing and orcharding have extended
further south than at any time since the
Spanish invasion of 400 years ago,
although there are traces of similar con-
ditions having existed many centuries
ago. The cold Antarctic drift which
passes south of the Leeuwin and Tas-
mania, sending an offshoot up the West-
ralian coast, has a potent effect on our
climatic conditions. The whole business
is probably due to alterations in the rate
of melting of the Antarctic ice-cap.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were travelling, per
boot, from Jerilderie to Deniliquin
(N.S.W.), and nightfall found us far out
on that treeless bit of plain that flanks
Widgiewa. It was fairly warm, so we
spread our bunks in the lee of a wire
fence and turned in. I was awakened
to find heavy rain pelting down. Peer-
ing at Mat in the gloom, I could see
that he had pulled his hat over his head.
To my complaint that it was a blanky
wet night, he. replied, giving the wire
over his head a twang: “Never mind,
it’d be worse if we were out in it!”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Have seen seven bells
and a bit over frightened out of gins
by “talking” dolls ; but “Murlonga” (B.
18/12/’35) strikes something quite new
“The press would like to have your lordship's views on this country."
“ Certainly, boys, certainly. What country is it?"
to me when he says that gins are super-
stitious about naked dolls. Why they
should be is a mystery, since nakedness
is a natural condition to them ; and the
coastal blacks of Queensland don’t care
a tinker’s bless-you whether the doll has
clothes or not, so long as it doesn’t make
inane remarks concerning “Ma-ma.” If
a doll talks it must belong to the debbil-
debbil, and any gin will run from it;
but even then it would have to be get-
ting on for dark. Abos. are not afraid
of devils in the daytime.
Hs sfc
“Walkabout”: Ye-e-es —to mount and
dismount on either side of a horse is
easy “once you are accustomed to it”
(B. 20/11 /’35); but there’s a catch in
it —the prad itself. I once saw a jackeroo
attempt to demonstrate how easy it was
to climb up on the offside. He must
have picked the wrong nag; anyway,
it needed six weeks’ medical attention
in bed before he again took an interest
in life.
$ * $ #
“Rhenoster Kop”: That yarn about
the English Tommy in S’Africa (B.
12/12/’35) who was sent on a mounted
errand five miles from camp and was
found at the end of the day with a worn-
out horse, having ridden within a mile
and a half of the camp all day, needs
sub-editing. In the first place, at a fixed
day-camp the outposts would be at least
two miles from camp. All the horses
of the column would be scattered over
the veld inside the post line, grazing
under a strong guard. If the lost Tommy
didn’t get more than a mile and a half
away from camp he must have been
riding about among these horses and in-
side the posts all day. Further, however
big an ass his boss may have been, no
horse would have behaved so foolishly
with his mates within sight and smell ail
day.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Choom woke up a
couple of hours after sunset and called
out to dad across the hut, “Have you
paid me at all since the trip started?”
Dad hadn’t, and said so, with a couple
of pointed remarks about being woken
up to corroborate the obvious. “That’s
funny,” replied Choom ; “I haven’t any
money on me then, but I’m sure there’s
some silver in my bunk.” He struck a
match and hauled down his blanket. The
“silver” was coal-black, with fangs com-
plete, and dad had its back broken before
the match burned through. Choom said
that he had always thought snakes were
hot, like cows.
H: * * *
“Dominic”: Mention of people in the
nor’-west corner of N. S. Wales seeing
ice for the first time after a hailstorm
(B. 30/10/’35) reminds me of the first
time I saw the commodity in Broad
Arrow (W.A.). It was back in the
tinned-dog days, when nearly everything
arrived per slow waggon or even slower
camel. Yet there was the miracle gleam-
ing crystal cold in the pub’s impromptu
ice-chest, and the bar thermometer show-
ing llOdeg. The stuff was brought,
so we learned later, per fast buck-
board, wrapped in blankets, from
Coolgardie, where a refrigerator-van had
delivered it from far-off Perth. “Cripes! ”
gasped Mulga Joe. “Ice! Whereja get
it?” Mick the barman grinned. “You’re
behind the times, boy. That’s tinned ice
from America, the very latest invention.”
Mulga gasped again: then he went out to
broadcast this latest instance of the mar-
vellous inventiveness of the Yanks.
* * * *
“J.E.W.”: Walking down the bed of
the Dawson (Q.) recently after a small
fresh I came upon several lizards sunning
on the sand. About 27in. long, their
bodies resembled a frilled lizard’s; tails
were like a goanna’s. The underpart of
the neck and chest was tinted pale
maroon. When disturbed they ran erect
on their hind legs into the shallow water
and disappeared. Have now decided that
the noise frequently attributed by us to
barramundi swirling is caused by these
lizards splashing off logs.
* * * *
“Phantom”: Spinning-bait, whether
live or spoon (B. 4/12/’35), is one of
the best fish-catchers going, and many
another beside the lordly barramundi
finds it hard to resist. Even the ap-
parently lethargic Murray cod will come
at it when no other is tempting, though
he’s no fighter. A real sporting fish to
try on this tackle is the tailer, common
in most of our waters. With a light rod,
fine tackle and a gold-silver spoon, people
who affect to catch only sporting fish
will get a bellyful from the tailer, though
very few seem to know it. If Zane Grey
condescends to small fish —41b. is a good
tailer —he should try Tewantin, to name
only one of several south Queensland
estuaries where the tailer is always
plentiful. He will need to use gimp or
piano-wire casts, and an extractor to
take out the hook if he has any use for
a full set of fingers.
* * * *
“Opal Lynn”: “N.K.” (B. 20/11/’35)
may be interested to learn that the red-
centred hibiscus (Cienfugosia hakecefolia )
grows near Kondinin in the eastern
wheatbelt of Westralia. About' Bft. tall
are the long whiplike stems of the plant,
and the bell-shaped flowers (lilac except
in the centre) are very beautiful, but
fade quickly.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Before “Walkabout” (B.
20/11/’35) says any more about abo.
teeth not becoming “worn to the gums”
I’d advise him to visit a museum. In
the anthropological section he’ll find that
the teeth in skulls of even young people
who lived on sandy country became
badly worn, while those of old people,
especially the lubras, who chewed rush
fibre to soften it' for twine-making, were
worn to the jawbone. Most of the s.-e.
of S.A. is sandy ; I have prospected every
abo. burial-ground I could find there for
museum specimens, and even the skulls
of young bucks who had been killed in
tribal»battles had worn teeth. Skulls
from the adjacent blacksoil Wimmera
country, however, show that only slight
wear had taken place on the crowns of
the teeth of quite old people.
* * * *
“Alpha”: Crows (B. 27/11/’35) are no
more wary than other fowls before they
have had cause to realise what a .22 is
for. Up in the virgin New England
(N.S.W.) country I have shot them by
dozens with a Bayard. The process was
to stalk to the bottom of a gum-tree,
with Kelly peering idly down from the
top of it, and let him have one through
the innards to satisfy his curiosity about
the little piece of wood with the iron
sticking out. Jim stayed that way all
through the cattle period, and started
to keep just out of range only when
the rabbits came and the trappers showed
bad temper and bad marksmanship in
an endeavor to induce him not to pick
the kidneys out of a carcass through
hides that were worth up to fourpence
each.
* * * $
“Como”: Some of the interviews
handed out to reporters by visitors avid
for publicity make comic reading for
Australians who know other parts of
the world. A globe-trotter who assured
Melbourne that the Exhibition reminded
him of St.. Peter’s at Rome was anticipated
a generation back by the English actress
Mrs. Bernard Beere. The lady evidently
had all her interviews carefully prepared
in London. When the liner tied up at
Port Melbourne she cooed her impres-
sions to a local reporter. Gazing over
the rail towards the stretch of mud and
sand at Fisherman’s Bend, she reeled off
her lines, commencing “I think your
harbor the most beautiful in the world.”
A careless steward had left out the Syd-
ney interview instead of the Melbourne
one.
* $ * *
“Purinthy”: It might be the proper
thing to hunt goannas during the noon-
day camping hours (B. 6/11/’35), but
it isn’t done in the best ’roo-shooting
circles. If a man is in good ’roo country,
and if he wants to keep the mob run-
ning there until he’s taken what he wants
of ’em, he never disturbs them by shoot-
ing or otherwise while they’re taking
their dinner sleep. If he does, though he
may get a bit of a bag the first day he
can kiss the rest good-bye ; when dis-
turbed during their dinner-camp they
clear out and find other country where
they won’t be disturbed —even the lure
of green grass won’t bring them back to
the spot from which they fled. Shoot
early and late, while the ’roos are feed-
ing, and they’ll stay there till the cows
come home. Do it the other way and
the game’s blown to a bubble.
* * * *
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Camels (B.
27 /11 /’35) ? Some ambulance-wallah
had a bright idea about using them for
transporting wounded in the desert by
means of a gadget known, I think, as a
catafalque. The jolts they gave- a patient,
particularly on mountainous country, ex-
ceeded everything known to military
science, even the six-wheeler, which gives
three bumps instead of two to the rut.
The local Zambuks were annoyed at be-
ing expected to keep up with the L.H. on
foot without camels to contend with, and
rapidly devised a satisfactory and simple
means of transporting “cases.” A horse
was hitched up to a sheet of galvanised-
iron, turned up at the trace end, and the
stretcher was laid on top. Driven pos-
tillion fashion, no smoother conveyance
ever came out of a limousine factory.
POSSUM DICK.
“I don’t mind campin’ on my own;
I want no mate for company;
The settled places and the lone
Far-out are all the same to me.
The sort you meet with nowadays
A hard day’s toil would out them quick,
They have such lazy, sissy ways;
They’re all the same,” said Possum Dick.
“Yet years ago I had a mate,
A bushman’s helpmate straight and true.
The loafin’ life was not for Kate;
She played her part the long days through.
She pulled her weight, as I have said”—
He poked the campfire with a stick—
“Her equals now are never bred—
I still can see her lying dead:
A kelpie cross,” said Possum Dick.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: I hasten to con-
firm “C.N.’s” (B. 11 /12/’35) discovery.
A creeping variety of the same plant
once nearly led to my own death. With
my old friend Wotta Woppa, chief of
the Da Mliahs, I was on my way, in the
interests of the Australian dairying in-
dustry, to seek a specimen of the hitherto
uncaptured Cowrilla. It is a cross be-
tween a cow and a gorilla ; hence self-
milking. For transport we used camels,
specially trained to carry the bottled
stores on their backs and the bulk stuff
inside. One night we were roused by a
terrific commotion in the camel-garage.
Rushing towards it, we found it com-
pletely covered under a dense mass of
writhing foliage, which certainly had not
been there when we had our last drink.
From beneath came the terrified screams
of the camels and a continual popping
of corks. Freeing them at last, we found
to our horror that every one of them
was bone-dry. It was weeks before we
reached Port Moresby and got our first
drink.
* * * *
“Yungaburra”: The Afghan of “Bore-
water’s” par. (B. 20/11 /’35) insisted on
slaughtering the sheep himself to render
it clean enough for food. The Moslems
will permit the infidel to dress the sheep,
but actual killing, with the victim facing
the sun, must be performed by a true
believer.
“Lapoon”: Canoe-handling at' its best
is to be seen on the Sepik River
in New Guinea. When we were coming
down that mighty
stream in a pinnace
doing eight knots,
some tribesmen get-
ting aboard a ten-
man canoe hailed
us. They wanted a
tow. We replied that
the tow was on if
they could catch us.
In less than 400
yards they caught
and passed us, yell-
ing del i g h tedly.
These river-village
“boys” use paddles
some 7ft. long, and
stand up in their
canoes, their timing
being perfect and
their paddle - work
faultless. Their
canoes are always
“on the run,” as the
paddlers’ method is
to dip deep with all
their power one
stroke and follow
with a light one just
deep enough to keep
the pace on for the
following deep one.
Many of the villages
“ ’Sail right, Bill —Toe gotcha .”
along the Sepik’s banks are densely popu-
lated—one takes a pinnace 20 minutes to
pass—and many of them boast huge
canoes, some having as many as 30
paddlers.
“Bill Boredrain”: Naturally, magpies
(B. 20/11/’35) are kindly disposed to
humans. A pair recently nested in a
neighbor’s garden, and during a gale the
nest was blown down and the eggs
smashed. The small daughter of the
“It’s ’ard w’en yer ’usband’s always thinkin' you re tryin' to poison ’im."
“ Doesn't give a girl a charnce, does it?”
house, distressed by their plight, returned
the nest and secured it firmly, this time
with string. A few days later there were
eggs in the nest again, the maggies carry-
ing on as though nothing had happened.
I have a pair at my camp who are great
cobbers. Mrs. M., however, has been
causing me much anxiety this week, as
every time it is calm she persists in start-
ing to build a nest in the wheel of the
windmill, using bits of fencing-wire,
which, I am afraid, will fall into the
working parts when the wheel turns over.
Still, her lesser-half’s song more than
makes up for his lady’s pigheadedness.
* * * #
“Cuchulain”: The green frog is him-
self the biggest cannibal of the lot (B.
20/11 / ’35). In s.-w. Queensland I fre-
quently left' the mosquito-net at the
hideous sounds of torment from the
garden, satisfied that a member of the
Blake family was handy to dispatch—
only to find a green frog devouring a
kinsman.
“Squid”: Welcome to “Dungeness”
and his opinion on clam-shell dangers (B.
27/11 /’35)! For years past, in my own
simple way, I’ve been pointing out the
utter rot of those weird and wonderful
yarns of the underseas wherein a man
is drowned after being caught
by a clam. As “D.” seems
to have covered the ground
so completely, there isn’t
much left for me to say. Still, I might add
that when the clam closes it invariably
squirts a jet of water from the point at
which it is disturbed. That jet should
be strong enough to blow out anything
big enough to enter the shell as the sides
draw together. Again, no diver ever
goes down without a knife. If a shell
closes about his legs or arm, the bone
of the limb will hold the jaws open wide
enough to permit the blade of a knife
being entered. A couple of quick slashes
with that and the shell would fall apart
and swing as aimlessly as an unhinged
door. I’m glad to meet “D.”
V $
“C’est Vrai” (F.M.S.): I’ll bet that
bloke who invented that yarn about the
young ’roo being born on the teat was
also responsible for the one about the
impenetrability of a croc.’s back. In
this land of curry and crocodiles the
most popular pastime is shooting the
brutes, and it’s all done by kindness and
buckshot. Shoot from the front, and
naturally his horny scales will deflect a
bullet and to a lesser extent the slower-
travelling buckshot. But from the side
or behind it’s a different story ; the pellets
get under the scales with the greatest of
ease.
* * * *
“Erua”: “Groper” (B. 4/12/’35), who
doubts the possibility of negotiating a
triple-hooked line with big fish on it,
can take my assurance that the feat isn’t
uncommon at the famous Bay of Islands
fishing-grounds in M.L. Fishing with
such a line —three large hooks and 6ft.
of wire in case a mako shark chanced
to sample the bait —I have hooked at
once a large barracouta, a kingfish and
a yellowtail. As “Groper” observes, a
winch is almost necessary for the haul-
ing-in, but a foursome pull does it. One
man is usually detailed to wield the
mallet and put the catch out of misery
immediately it is landed. A single expert
knock does the trick.
# * * *
“Sucre”: “Crane” can have it his own
way about woggies and cane (B. 6/11/’35),
and, though I admit those fowls do a bit
of damage, I’ll back wallabies to give the
woggies owe-forty and a love set every
time. The only good point about the
marsupials is that it’s easy to fence them
out if a man’s got the money to buy net-
ting and the sweat to erect it. Failing
that, good hunting dogs are the next-best
thing. If a cane-cocky hasn’t either
of those things, and if his farm is under
the hills —where the best cane grows—
then he can let the wallabies wipe off
several figures of his cane cheque. It’s
almost human the way those fellows
systematically destroy a crop. One
reaches up and breaks a stick of cane,
eating what he wants of it before he
passes on to another that happens to
take his fancy. It doesn’t take many
wallabies, working on 200 nights of the
year, to play hell with a crop. Apart
from what they eat, they also have their
playground. That might be 30ft. in
diameter, growing larger as the ’roos use
it, and on that spot the cane is beaten flat
and chopped to chaff —useless and hidden
from sight, like a grub in an apple.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: Can’t let “Saddle-flap” (B.
18/12/’35) get swan on to my menu. It
might be all right, as he says, after hang-
ing for a while, but we aren’t in Eng-
land. In the Cold Country a bird is hung
by the tail-feathers until it drops—then
it is tender enough to eat. But try that
in Australia, even in Gippsland, and the
result will be a nice dose of ptomaine.
Anyway, goose doesn’t have to be hung.
Pluck it and put it on to cook straight-
way.
% $ * ❖
“0.P.”: We have to make our own
amusements in the bush. I visited my
friend Paddy in his hut, which is
lined with hessian and overrun with
rats. He was spending an industrious and
entertaining hour spearing the rodents
with a large old-fashioned hatpin
wherever their presence was made ap-
parent by a bulge in the hessian. I was
glad I was only staying the evening, and
not a week.
He % # ❖
“Der Jong”: “De Aar” is a bit out in
his local color (B. 18/12/’35). Talking of
the early “surrender” days of the Boer
War he says that one moment Jan “would
be encountered ploughing his holding”
and next indulging in guerilla tactics. I
have a pound for any man who saw
a Boer ploughing or doing any other
hard manual work in those days and
can prove it. My old friends had strong
ideas on the curse of Ham, and saw that
Ham never got a chance to dodge it.
And it wasn’t the concentration camps
which stopped the double game. It was
shipping the offenders as soon as caught
to Ceylon and St. Helena for the dura-
tion. The Boers dreaded this mysterious
voyage as much as any Hindu hates cross-
ing the black water. “Allemaghtig,”
wailed one old lady when I told her that
her husband and son were on the high
seas. “Alles der tag der kerels will be
kecking der side over wondering when is
der time to outspan.”
sK * * *
“Williami”: Possums are to be seen
in dozens in Melbourne. They live in
the Fitzroy Gardens and the Treasury
Gardens, in elm-trees and oak-trees
which don’t supply them with food.
There are an odd blue-gum and two
or three Queensland lemon-scented
gums ; but mostly the possums live on
the charity of human friends. Have
seen Possie with his girl friend
taking the air in Spring-street; and
once I fed them with biscuits on
the steps of Parliament House. Don’t
know how they are affected by politics,
but the policeman on duty in front of
the House told me that he had to dis-
courage one old-man furry from a strong
determination to sleep in the Premier’s
car.
$ * $ #
“Waipiro-porangi-pakeha”: What is
the correct spelling of Otago? One gives
“Otako,” another “Otauko,” and now the
erudite “Ehoa-o-te-manu” (B. 13 /11 / ’35)
makes it “Otakou.” The Maori, being
a smoked Irishman, would enjoy the
humor of this drawn-out disputation,
more especially because the original
argument commenced over “Kuni Kuni”
objecting to the Maori phrase “py korry.”
But this is the question I wish to ask:
Why does the average pakeha make such
a hash in his pronunciation of that
euphonious place-name Matamatahara-
kiekie?
sis * *
“3.0.”: For a real pirate give me the
conger eel. Since the sandflats here
(Swansea, N.S.W.) have become over-
grown with a weed known locally as
“swan-grass” the big fellows have in-
creased surprisingly. They have been
known to snap a fish from a man’s hand
as he was hauling it into the boat. I was
cleaning squire by the water’s edge the
other day and listening to the remarks of
a friend on the bank at the same time.
Before I was aware of the eel’s presence
three fish had disappeared. When he
came back for the fourth I made a jab
at him with the knife, slashing his neck.
He retired beneath an adjacent boat, his
hiding-place betrayed by the rocking of
the craft in the shallow water.
* * * t-
“Tenta”: Can’t agree with “The 0.D.”
(B. 4/12/’35) that' better roads and faster
cars spell doom to magpies. On a
trip from Tenterfield to Sydney (nearly
500 miles) we didn’t come across a single
dead maggie—or, for that matter, any
other bird. Dead bunnies there were —
five were counted. Gos. and large
lizards ran a close second with three.
Even allowing for a certain mortality in
bird life through misadventure with
motor-cars, there is little possibility of
the magpie becoming extinct.
THE NEW DEGENERACY.
Bill shifted his quid to the other cheek; then
cursed as his shot went high
And the juicy blast just landed an inch from
the unsuspecting fly;
And as he started to chew again he spoke in
his drawling tones:
“It’s just what I think meself—that these
young fellows are blasted drones.”
He slowly tapped the paper he held as he
caught my questioning look.
“I just been readin’ a piece,” he said, “where
a Queensland Judge went crook
About the ways of our modern youth. It’s
slippin’, ’e says, the breed;
An’ I’ll take me oath that the two young
chaps I’ve got ain’t worth their feed.
“The lads I useter ’ave,” said Bill, “wasn’t ’alf
as fond of their ‘nap,’ ”
An’ gettin’ the cows in at sparrer-chirp didn’t
worry them a scrap.
They worked like tigers from when they
dressed till they finished up for the night;
They ’ad brains, those coves, and you bet yer
life they’ve since got along all right.
“But the pair I’ve now—well, I roar them up,
but it don’t seem any use;
They’ve got crook ’eads, or been up too late,
or some other damned excuse.
An’ though I rattle buckets about, or stamp
up and down the floor,
I never can get the blighters out of bed till
it’s after four.”
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


LYS
ms
to
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm i
JT-
iisS
1
bJM.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Woolclassers’ Reports.
“Murrawong”: Except with very small
clips where no attempt is made to sepa-
rate sexes or ages and the fleeces are
classified as one flock, it is essential that
the broker should receive a report on
every clip to guide him in cataloguing
it for sale.
There is often misconception as to the
form of those reports. Some brokers
supply books demanding specifications
of each individual bale ; in one State
the classer is practically asked to cata-
logue the entire clip and to add an ex-
haustive analysis of each flock and of
every line made. This is asking too
much. In sheds where upwards of 50
bales a day are being turned out it means
that every minute of the classer’s spare
time is given to work which should be
done by the brokers’ staffs, and for which
the classer gets neither pay nor acknow-
ledgment.
Most classers when exporting are in-
clined to go into lengthy descriptions of
the wool of each flock and their various
lines. Actually, the broker does not want
a technical dissertation. He knows more
than the classer about detail, and a valuer
is too busy to wade through five or six
pages of handwriting.
In the Eastern States the main needs
of the broker from the classer are: (1)
Station brand and owner’s name and
address: (2) “breaks”—otherwise the
first and last bale numbers of each
flock, mentioning sex and, where
necessary, a brief remark on any
divergent characteristics, such as whether
the wool is dustier, burner, tender
or off a line of bought sheep
that will make it match or differ
from any other flock in the clip; (3)
important suggestions as to the lotting
or bracketing of various lines, especially
toward the elimination of star lots.
Here is a sample report:
September 1, 1935.
To X.Y.Z. Woolbrokers, —
Classer’s report on A.8.C./Sauterne
clip, property of A. 8., Sauterne, Booligal
N.S.W.); bales 19/363.
Clip comprises station-bred and bought
sheep. Latter carry heavier burr, and one
line wethers’ wool is of 14 months’
growth. Red, dusty backs removed from
all fleeces. All fleece lines sound with
exception of line branded Ist Fleece.
B/s 1/18. Pressed before shearing.
Owner will report.
19/68. W. Bought wethers. 14 months’
wool. Will not match anything else.
69/134. W. Bought wethers. Lighter
dust than main clip. Heaviest burr
skirted off. Fleeces carry light trefoil
burr.
135/164. E. Young station ewes. Fleeces
skirted free. Best lines of clip here.
165/169. Lambs. AAA lambs are free.
170/363. Etc., etc.
Would suggest that all AE/E. be lotted
together. Three bales A COM. E.
(135/164) will match four bales A COM.
E. (246/289).
(Sgd.) W. Staple.
(Classer.)
The essential part of the report is the
“breaks.” There is no need to write
that “bales 25/52 are well-bred fleeces
of excellent combing length and good
medium quality, showing plenty of char-
acter with a light, dusty tip.” Any valuer
can see that. Keep notes for the report
throughout shearing.
Above all, be brief.
Quality.
“B-gar”: “Ghanam” (B. 18/12/’35) in
outlining quality in stock might have in-
cluded wool. A big percentage of wool-
growers incline to the belief when wool
quality is spoken of it refers solely to
fineness of fibre. Wrong, of course.
Lincoln wool showing the desired char-
acteristics cannot be said to be lack-
ing quality just because it is of low-
spinning capacity. Any wool, no matter
how fine or how coarse of fibre,
must show quality if it features the
individual characteristics distinctive of
its type and conforms as it should to
length of staple, condition and spinning
capacity. A super-fine merino wool can
no more be claimed to have “quality”
than can the best types of Lincoln or
Leicester.
Ages of “Aged” Sheep.
“Sheepo”: Only in certain country
could “Lion’s” method be depended upon
to discriminate between an eight-tooth
and a five-year-old (B. 18/12/’35). I’ve
yet to find sheep grazing on country
where wear and tear of the teeth were
identical right through sheep of any one
drop.
The man who depends upon mouth-
ing as a definite indication of age js
bound to find himself a whole lot out
unless fully acquainted with local con-
ditions.
Age marks only must remain the true
guide, and the pity is that their inser-
tion is not compulsorily made Common-
wealth-wide.
By the adoption of an age-mark cycle
system, every grazier and buyer would
be able to tell at a glance the age of
sheep inspected, and only after the full-
mouth stage would it be necessary for
mouthing inspections to be made for
gummies and broken-mouths.
It is only after the full-mouth stage
has been reached that mouth-culling
is necessary.
I doubt if 25 p.c. of graziers indulge
in age-marking now. Just what is the
objection?
Definite Diagnosis.
“Valerin”: Some graziers squander
cash on licks and drenches which are
unsuitable for their peculiar needs.
Generally speaking, licks are supposed
to provide for deficiencies in some im-
portant mineral substance in the soil, such
as phosphorus, lime, etc.; drenches to
destroy internal parasites—worms and so
on.
For sound treatment it is essential to
have accurate knowledge of the condi-
tions that have to be dealt with. For
all practical purposes, an analysis of soil,
grasses and herbage (only small samples
are required) will disclose the mineral
deficiencies. A few fresh sheep drop-
pings, microscopically examined, will
show the nature of the worm infestation.
From this information there will be
little difficulty in making up an effective
specific. The ingredients can be pro-
cured from wholesale chemists ; and he
is a poor specimen of a bushman who
cannot weigh and mix them.
A Poddy-feeding Machine.
“Plankton”: A device made in several
sizes, designed to feed simultaneously
from eight to 50 young animals, is being
demonstrated in Queensland.
It is suitable for calves, lambs or pigs.
The milk is put in a trough fitted with
pipes connected to rubber teats. When
an animal sucks, a ball-valve opens,
allowing the milk to flow. With stoppage
of suction, the ball automatically falls
into its seating, and the supply is cut off.
Rearing Good Calves.
“Silky Bag”: The development of an
animal depends on care during the first
six months of life. A stunted calf hasn’t
much chance.
The most prolific cause of weedy
animals is contaminated food. A calf’s
stomach is very delicate.
After suffering losses, and rearing only
a small proportion of weedy calves over
some years, I had to review methods, and
the most successful plan was as follows.
All liquid feeding was done out of
seamless milking buckets. Skim-milk
was collected direct from the separator in
cans as clean as those used for whole
milk.
Only two or three buckets were used
to feed the poddies, which made the job
a slow one, but guaranteed cleanliness.
Old troughs, wooden or galvanised-
iron, half kerosene-tins, etc., are death-
traps—harbors for bacterial • filth.
Troughs for dry feed are not so im-
portant.
The best feed I’ve struck, both for
fattening and curing scours, is baked
pollard. A little can* be toasted to
cream color in the house oven.
A nice-looking calf can be reared in
a straw-covered pen, inside a shed. Un-
fortunately, its resistance to disease and
adaptability are almost ruined. It pays
to let the calf rough it out of doors a
little. But this can be overdone, and the
youngster stunted.
A half-way course is best—use a
decent pasture with a half-open shed,
with a raised and battened floor, facing
away from the cold quarter.
Cultivate the Maize.
“Y. Dent”: Cultivation is vital for
late maize crops in early summer for
weed-control and to conserve soil mois-
ture. Harrowing serves at first, but as
the crops grows an inter-row cultivator
should be used. Such cultivation should
cease, however, when the maize reaches
tasselling stage. Once the crop has
passed 18in. high there is danger of root
damage from cultivation, because the
roots extend across the rows within 2in.
or 3in. of the surface.
Don’t hill. It damages the roots,
makes erosion possible and exposes large
surfaces to evaporation.
Many growers persist in suckering the
maize, with some idea of increasing yield
and providing a little stock fodder.
Actually the practice decreases the yield,
for obvious reasons, as has been shown
by experiments over four years at a
Grafton farm.
Standardisation Again.
Ghanam”: Another overseas traveller
(R. W. McKellar) has come back to tell
the press what The Bulletin has been
hammering in for years.
“In Denmark, Norway and Sweden,”
said he, “I. found farming methods —
particularly in dairying and in cultivat-
ing crops and feeding stock —more scien-
tific than and a long way in advance of
Australian methods, though there are indi-
vidual farmers here doing better and
more profitable work than those over-
seas We must get down to type
and standardise the stock to suit the
market. We must send baby beef over-
seas if we want it to compete in the
world market... .Argentine beef is
much better than Australian. We should
produce a consecutive series of grades
for Smithfield. Long, leggy stuff is not
wanted overseas. Beef stock must be
under two years old when killed. In
mutton, I would advise a concentration
on Southdown ewes.”
His remarks on beef exactly hit the
nail on the head.
Skeleton Weed Again.
“Wundi”: Nobody has yet earned the
reward for an effective system of dealing
with skeleton weed in N.S.W., but a lot
of progress has been made in devising
means for its eradication, and the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department is now -hopeful
about the future.
Wider rotations are suggested as one
method—wheat, oats and fallow on
lightly-infested country, with lucerne
planted on heavily-infested land as a pre-
liminary to wheat when the weed is
wiped out.
If official advice is taken, next autumn
should see large areas of lucerne planted
in the weed districts of N.S.W. Even
those who regard the weed as a sheep
fodder would have to admit that lucerne
is a better one, and it certainly is, when
in strong stand, capable of keeping new
s.-w. growth down.
Westralian clover, too, is a very present
help, and Wimmera rye is worth a trial.
The system seems likely to further the
growth of stock on the farms and a
generally better balanced system of agri-
culture. With abundance of lucerne and
storable oats and the right class of fat-
lamb sheep, wheat-farmers are not likely
to regret the measures which are called
for to wipe out the weed.
Scab in Potatoes.
“Hortus”: Several forms of the disease
are found. It may be due to thread-
forming bacteria or a fungus or an eel-
worm. The fungus Rhizoctonia has been
giving trouble to crops in the Clarence
River district (N.S.W.).
It is common to find on surface of
tubers dark-brown lumps of irregular
shape and size, like small clots of soil.
They become black gradually. They do
not adhere very firmly to the skin, and
can be scratched off with the fingernail,
or rubbed off.
When they are removed, very little scar
is left. This condition is sometimes
called black-speck scab. Sometimes,
however, the lumps may be found to be
deeper in the tissues—even beneath the
skin.
Each consists of a mass of fungus
tissue capable of resisting adverse con-
ditions for long periods.
The potato may seem to be fit for
planting, for no changes have taken place
in it. But, after planting in cool, moist
conditions, new growths of hyphae de-
velop. When planted with the seed, the
young shoots may be attacked by these
hyphae, and many plants killed. The
stems of young plants are often rotted
round the collar or beneath the soil.
Some die from what appears to be a wet
rot.
Other conditions associated with this
fungus are a bunching or rosette appear-
ance of the tops and small potatoes
(aerial tubers) formed on the stem above
the seat of injury, sometimes on the
axils of the leaves along the stem.
Rotting, too, is produced in the tubers.
Typically, this consists of a dry, brown
rot extending inwards —something much
like the true rot produced by the late
blight when bacteria are absent. This
condition is common in Tasmania, and
is known as brown rust.
The remedy is selection of seed and
the dipping of all seed before planting.
The fungus is hard to kill, requiring
about two hours’ soaking in a solution of
1 part formalin in 200 parts water or a
solution of 1 part corrosive sublimate in
1000 parts water.
Hot formalin controls rhizoctonia scab
effectively. Take 1 part of commercial


TftTTfyiilleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
S!85?
A
C
H
N
E
MADE IN P
AUSTRALIA V
fiw
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
Representatives; McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from, any of the following:
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAN D, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEEN SL AA} D BY
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY. LTD.
VAU-EV m BRLS3AAE .4**,
COMFORT ....
ASSURED IN ORTHOPEDICS.
r.
An Orthopedic Model for men made in
a light Black or Brown Calf, and stocked
in full and half sizes, with narrow,
medium and wide fittings for every half
size.
Price: Black, 37/6; Brown, 39/6.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
Summer again, bringing
with it the hot days
which are so tiring to all
of us.
But even on the hottest
day there’s no need to
have tired feet if you
wear ABBEY ORTHO-
PEDIC SHOES.
Made on scientific foot-
form Lasts with wide,
roomy toes to allow free-
dom, these Shoes bring
comfort to all.
TRY A PAIR
AND FEEL THE
DIFFERENCE.
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WAIO.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
IBEILIUCSt
sc.
&
aNR
AY
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
formalin (40 p.c. formaldehyde) in 120
parts of water, and heat to 122 deg. Fahr.
Immerse the potatoes for two minutes.
Take them out and cover on a draining
board with a cloth soaked in hot solu-
tion and wrung slightly. The tubers
must be left covered for an hour, and
then laid out till air-dry.
This method needs care. The tempera-
ture (122 deg. Fahr.) must be maintained
while the seed is being treated.
Another method: Take 4oz. of cor-
rosive sublimate (mercuric chloride), and
dissolve by stirring in two pints of com-
mercial hydrochloric acid. Don’t use a
tin or metal basin —use a glass or glaze.
Dilute the solution in a wooden barrel
or container filled to 25 gallons water.
A 40-gallon barrel filled to 25 gallons
with the solution provides an excellent
method of treating a bag of potatoes at
a time. The bag should not be immersed.
Put tubers in a wooden crate, and leave
the latter in the dip from li to 2 hours.
Approximately, 4oz. of corrosive subli-
mate and 2 pints acid will be required
to treat one ton of seed.
Rub the hands with grease before dip-
ping, as the solution is poisonous.
The Habits of St. John’s Wort.
“J.W.”: You can’t mistake it —even if
you have never seen it, the yellow flower
and the oil glands on the leaves give it
away. These can be seen by holding
the leaf to the light, when it looks per-
forated.
It has a greedy, creeping root system,
and it contains subtle poisons which
affect the skin of stock and render it
sensitive to sunlight, which sets up an
itch. Then the animal begins to bite and
scratch, and there are wholesale sores
to be dealt with. Also, the poison affects
the nervous system —on some beasts with
an idiosyncrasy for it, it has similar
effects to those of drugs on humans.
It spreads by suckering, so mere burn-
ing or cutting down does no good—
sometimes only harm. Roots must be
completely torn out or poisoned with
salt. But salting as a method of dealing
with heavily-infested land is too costly
to be profitable.
Sodium chlorate —is it necessary to
repeat that it is dangerous and inflam-
mable and needs to be handled with
care? —is useful as a spray.
On cultivatable land, the best method
is to burn the plant before it seeds, and
when a new first growth appears begin
a solid cultivation before sowing down
with wheat or oats —about two bushels
to the acre of seed. Use early varieties,
so that any wort which comes up with
the crop may be cut with it before seed-
ing time. This is important, because if
the crop is fed as hay or silage with wort
seed in it stock will spread the pest.
Wort is usually at its worst where the
rabbits have eaten down grasses and
slowed up weed growth; also where
pastures are badly depleted through
overstocking. Every rabbit killed is a
step towards wort control.
Grass-drying Plants.
“X.T.”: J. A. Baker, a Victorian agri-
cultural scientist, has called attention to
the conclusion of the British Agricultural
Research Council that cheap plants for
artificially drying grass would be a boon
to farmers.
In the wetter districts of Australia,
they certainly would, arid would go a
long way towards solving the problem of
winter and drought fodder.
There are outfits in fairly general use
in Europe, a German being among the
best. With this, the grass is first finely
cut and then mixed with gases from a
furnace, the mixture being sucked up
and down a series of tubes which feed to
a fan. When the grass is dry it passes
via a rotating drum to a press.
In Britain the council estimates that
the cost of material for a ton of dry
grass would be about £2, though it
should certainly not be anywhere near
this price in Australia, where it could
easily be obtained from most farm sur-
pluses in normal seasons, when much
pasture is wasted. Moreover, most Aus-
tralian districts in which the technique
could be applied have cheap wood fuel,
which European countries have not.
The plant which the British Council
has in mind would, however, cost £425
and have a capacity of 3|cwt. per hour,
and this would have to be considerably
cut before the method would become
popular in Australia. Australian brains
should be able to design something
simpler and not so dear to instal.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: If there is trouble in per-
suading sheep to take a new kind of lick
or food, sprinkle a little aniseed over it.
“Win”: When a nut strips its thread
dip it in killed spirits and hold in a flame
until it is hot enough to melt solder.
Then cover the old thread with soft
solder and screw the nut on a little at
a time. A stripped thread on a bolt can
be dealt with in the same way.
“A.N.S.”: The expense and discomfort
of sweat-spoiled trouser legs and socks
can be avoided thus: Cut the flaps from
an old saddle across from the bottom
of the knee-pads. Then turn sideways,
cut two slits down, one near each end of
the new cut, and thread the stirrup-
leather through them so that the old flaps
will cover the space between stirrup and
the saddle-flap.
“Pick”: In either wood or iron screws
sometimes fasten tightly through rust. They
then often break when being shifted. Dip
new screws into a paste made of mixed
powdered graphite and lubricating oil.
They will not rust or fasten, and may
be readily removed at any time.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is there a correspondence course in wool-
classing ? I have had practical experience, but
have never studied a set course or sat for
exams. Could I obtain certificates without
leaving the bush ? If not, what is the shortest
time I could complete a course and sit for
exam, in Sydney ? —8622.
The Sydney Technical College conducts a
course of training in woolclassing by corre-
spondence to provide the man on the land
with as much instruction as the method will
permit. For a theoretical course, it is compre-
hensive and thorough. To obtain the college
woolclassing certificate, however, a student
must attend the second-year stage of the sheep-
and wool-training (day) course. It requires full
daily attendance for five months —February-
July—and is the shortest way to obtain the
certificate.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
8.C.: Worm-that-turns theme too hackneyed,
and humor slightly forced; try another tack.
C.J.aT (M.L.): Interesting, but such
articles are a bit off our beat... .G. 8.: Noth-
ing in the plot, and the only jackeroo we’ve
heard speak in “gonnas,” “guys” and “yuhs”
lived in Surry Hills and was an ardent pic-
ture fan Lantana: We are forced to agree
with you regarding Mrs. M Anita: The
opening was excellent; later it gets hopelessly
mixed. What have the parson and Mary to do
with the first part of the yarn? ... .P.J.8.:
That trifle got its deserts... .V.D.: Style all
right, but plot hackneyed; try something
fresh... .G.M.: Your love story won’t ring
down the corridors of time like that of
Beatrice and Dante... .M.H.: Nor, alas! will
yours N. 8.: Good idea, but it needed
better treatment... .8.M.T.: Descriptive article,
though nicely done, is not in our line
Jindivick: Just failed to make the grade.
. ...K.W.: Get Bing Crosby to croon it;
that’ll be one crooner the less... .M.R.P.: Not
badly done, but doesn’t quite satisfy; might
unload elsewhere A.N.L.: Can’t hope to
convince readers that the brutal planter would
respect the girl, or that the “nice” type of
girl would fall in love with him, knowing he
battered a native to death... .K.D.S.: Literary
curiosity compiled from a string of lines from
well-known poets of no value to us
C.M.A.: True to life, but not enough humor.
. ...W.R.: Helen of Troy as a subject for
sonnets is about as fresh as mammoth steak.
C.A.S.: Black-crow yarn very old and
very du11.... Beve: “Children’s Corner” verse.
. ...Emel: Still on the hard r0ad....J.5.:
Uninteresting; it seems to ape Continental
writers... .J.R.: If your facts are genuine, it
is a case for investigation L.H.: No use
for purely descriptive articles F.LJ.: Only
crooners are permitted (temporarily) to rhyme
“dawn” with ‘“morn” TJ.:
O Adelaide umbrageous, cultured Queen!
Thy austral throne, conceived by careful Light.
Enough! We don’t want to blight the S. Aus.
centenary celebrations Akis (Wau): Not
quite suitable J.D.: One clicked; one
didn’t J.S.: It won’t do in that form; you
should have made a dream-story of it
R.K.: No doubt the lady had her good points,
but you don’t make a vivid picture of her
P.R.: Your old sundowner must be the only
man who ever saw a snake smiling... .V.D.W.:
We found “A Cocky’s Joy” depressing, and
“The ’Flu” deepened our gloom E.C.: “If
not suitable, destroy.” Destroyed they are
Donrab: You’re a facile rhymer, but it isn’t
the kind of jingle we want B.McL.: We
haven’t struck a lottery yarn yet that was worth
the price of the ticket... .J.D.W.: Treatise on
Life and Works of Burns unsuitable....
G.H.C.: Too small a peg to hang a readable
yarn 0n....E.L.: A long, rambling yarn, with
enough plot for a novel V.D.: A trans-
parent sugar-trifle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
5.8.: Readers were cheered with that jest
nearly 50 years ago... .C.M.L.: Gent, appears
to have been made out of bolsters and broom-
sticks... .T.N.: One of the oldest henpecked-
husband gags P.W.: You have the shadows
falling the wrong way, and you know next to
nothing about perspective... .N.J.S.: Neat
effort, but jest is pointless... .C.G.: Can’t
get the hang of the seamen’s-strike cartoon.
H.R.T.: Good for a fourteen-year-old
—nothing more P. 8.: You work better
crayon than with pen and ink—for the
former use a dull-surfaced paper E.M.D.:
Caricatures of persons outside N.S.W. should
be endorsed as to likeness by someone
known to us A.C.: You will never see
print if you keep to that wooden style....
K.C.: Stripped of its decorations there is
little to please the eye....8.G.: The irate
charlady is cooling off in the w.p.b.....
T.J.M.: Useless to submit another drawing
until your work has improved considerably.
. ...G.H.D.: Even a straight line has you
worried, while a cup and saucer leave you
baffled M.C.: Wheeze is long-winded
J.H.W.: Oil-embargo quip is muddled....
A.D.: Attend an art school, and sharpen your
sense of humor... .E.P.A.: Can’t see any pro-
gress within the year... .F.R.H.: It must have
been many years since you last saw a horse.
C.C.: Don’t care for the heavy cross-
hatching, and the gags need rejuvenating
A.L.A.: You’re coming on nicely—pay more
attention to details, and give other mediums
a turn C. 8.: You depend too much on
mechanical aids —practise freehand drawing
more. .. .S.L.M.: Political cartoons should be
direct and to the point. We are always ready
to consider suggestions... .N.J.: An old friend,
still draped around a lamp-post, and still
making the same reply to the copper
E.K.W.: The little boy is especially badly
drawn.


ADAMS’ ( TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV£ PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
LuF.ch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J, Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Sana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, requires position as
receptionist for doctor or dentist, or as library
attendant.—97s3.
Young man (26), N.S.W., wants work on
sheep station as handyman around homestead.
Queensland preferred—9772.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
wants any kind of typing w0rk.—9779.
To buy Dunne’s An Experiment in Time. —
9781.
Information Sought.
(1) How many times did Victor Trumper
visit England with. Australian cricket teams, and
in what years ? (2) Names of members of the
team on his first visit ? —9800.
(1) Four; in 1899, 1902, 1905 and 1909. (2)
J. Darling (capt.), C. Hill, M. A. Noble, J.
Worrall, V. Trumper, F. Laver, F. A. Iredale,
H. Trumble, S. E. Gregory, J. J. Kelly, E.
Jones, C. E. Macleod, W. P. Howell, A. E.
Johns, with Major B. J. Wardill manager.
* * * *
In what books would 1 find data relating
to Caroline Chisholm ? —9794.
The main sources of information for the
more important part of her life are Tineas
MacKenzie’s Memoirs of Mrs. Caroline Chis-
holm (1852) and a shorter but more accurate
memoir in David Mackenzie’s Emigrant’s
Guide. Sidney’s Three Colonies of Austral-
asia, published in the same year, devotes a
chapter to her work in N. S. Wales, and in
Judge Therry’s Reminiscences (pp. 416-22)
there is a eulogistic account of her work, in-
cluding a sketch of the Judge’s encounter with
Mrs. Chisholm while on one of her inland
journeys with girls. Her own pamphlets, Emi-
gration and Transportation Relatively Con-
sidered (1847), The A.B.C. of Colonization
(1850) and Advice to Emigrants (1853), also
throw, light on her ideas. See also article on
Caroline Chisholm in The Australian Encyclo-
paedia, and consult the Mitchell Library,
Sydney.
* * • * *
Is the bullrout the same as the stingray, and
how long does the pain from their sting remain ?
Are external applications any good to relieve
the pain, and, if so, what should be used? —
9551.
The bullrout has no resemblance to the sting-
ray. Although the virulence of the bullrout’s
sting has been questioned, the wound inflicted
by its dorsal spines is extremely painful. A
local authority (Dr. Leighton Kesteven) notes
“very marked and distinct symptoms of the
effect of venom” in such cases. No venom
gland is associated with the stingray’s spine,
the pain being apparently caused by toxic slime.
The victim of the bullrout sting should be
treated as for snakebite, permanganate of potash
being applied to the wound and stimulants
freely administered if collapse occurs. When
• treatment is delayed severe prostration for
several days often results. The stingray wound
demands immediate treatment with liquid am-
monia, which neutralises the formic acid irri-
tant of the sting.
(1) Is a totally deaf man who through his
affliction is forced to work at his job for low
wages eligible to receive an invalid’s pension
in N. S. Wales ? (2) Would it be possible to
receive a small pension in addition to the
small wages he is earning ? (3) Are the blind
and deaf classed as invalids ? (4) Amount of
invalid’s pension ? (5) Where should applica-
tion be made? —9681.
(1) The qualification under the N.S.W. In-
valid and Old-age Pensions Act is total and
permanent incapacity for all work. (2) No.
(3) A blind person is regarded as totally in-
capacitated if not earning. (4) Maximum
amount payable is 18s. per week. (5) Appli-
cation forms may be obtained from any post
office, or from the Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Office, 52 Carrington-street, Sydney.
* =t= * *
Has the Maoriland Parliament two Chambers,
like our Federal Parliament, or only one ? If
there are two, how is the second one elected ?
—9721.
There is a Second Chamber —the Legislative
Council. Appointments to this body are made
by Governor, on the advice of the Govern-
ment, for seven years, with eligibility for re-
appointment. The number of members is not
fixed. It has stood as high as 53, and in recent
years has dropped as low as 30. There is
provision for an elective Leg. Council in an
Act of 1914, which may be brought into opera-
tion by proclamation, but no such proclama-
tion has yet been made. In 1892 Premier
Ballance established, by appeal to the Secre-
tary of State against a refusal by the Gover-
nor, Lord Glasgow, to make appointments
necessary to give the Government a majority
in the Council, that on this point the Governor
“must accept unreservedly the advice of his
Ministers.”
* * * *
(1) How long has the Lindbergh kidnapping
case been dragging on ? (2) What evidence is
there against Hauptmann ? —9758.
(1) The Lindbergh baby was kidnapped on
March 1, 1932, and found dead nine weeks
later. Hauptmann was arrested in October,
1934. He was tried a few months ago, found
guilty and sentenced to death. An appeal to
the Supreme Court went against him, and
unless some further legal development occurs
he will be executed on January 14 next. (2)
It is alleged that some of the ransom money
was found hidden in his house, that the ladder
used by the kidnapper was made from floor-
ing taken from the attic of the house occupied
by Hauptmann at the time of the crime, and
that marks made by a plane used to trim the
ladder fitted irregularities in a plane owned by
Hauptmann.
4= 4= 4= *
What are the odds against a player in a
game of cribbage holding the top hand of 29,
and how could it be calculated 1 9241.
Odds are 649,740 to 1 against. Such a hand
consists of four fives and a jack. The possible
number of different hands of five cards dealt
from a 52-card pack is 52 x 51 x 50 x 49 x 48
divided by 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1, or 2,598,960.
Four of these hands will consist of four fives
and a jack, so the odds are 2,598,960 divided
by four.
4< 4= * 4=
Extent of Australian trade with Germany
during the last five years for which figures are
available ? —9780.
Imports from Germany: 1929-30, £4,341,678;
1930-31, £1,997,056; 1931-32, £1,427,079; 1932-
33, £1,831,636; 1933-34, £1,920,676. Exports
to Germany: 1929-30, £6,246,960; 1930-31,
£5,311,276; 1931-32, £3,922,479; 1932-33,
£5,089,724; 1933-34, £9,439,054.
4- 4. 4. 4-
Particulars of expenditure incurred during
1934-35 in connection with Commonwealth
royal commissions and committees of inquiry,
together with statement of total expenditure of
each to June 30, 1935 ?—9787.
Royal commission on petrol industry, 1934-
35, £3045 17s. 7d.; total expenditure to June
30, 1935, £10,559 12s. Bd. Royal commission
on taxation laws of the Commonwealth and
States, 1934-35, £llO7 12s. Bd.; total expendi-
ture to June 30, 1935, £7547 7s. 9d. Royal
commission on wheat industry, 1934-35, £20,472
4s. 10d.; total expenditure to June 30, 1935,
£31,329 13s. lOd. Royal commission on retire-
ment of Lieut.-Commander Casey, 1934-35,
£640 15s. lid. Committee of inquiry West-
ralian secession case, 1934-35, £16,586 9s. lOd.;
total expenditure to June 30, 1935, £16,606
9s. lOd.
4: 4= 4: *
What area of land is held by each of the
missions in New Guinea, and to what extent
has such land, been cultivated ? State authority
for figures. —96B3.
Catholic Mission of the Most Sacred Heart
of Jesus, 12,945 hectares (3326
vated); Catholic Mission of the Holy Ghost,
Eastern New Guinea, 11,445 hectares (2499
hectares cultivated); Catholic Mission of the
Holy Ghost, Central New Guinea, 3023 hec-
tares (880 hectares cultivated); Marist Mission
Society, 1718 hectares (682 hectares cultivated);
Lutheran Mission, Finschhafen and Madang,
6412 hectares (1241 hectares cultivated);
Liebenzell Mission, 81 hectares (10 hectares
cultivated); Methodist Missionary Society of
Australasia, 3494 hectares (474 hectares culti-
vated) ; Methodist Missionary Society of New
Zealand, 135 hectares (47 hectares cultivated);
Melanesian Mission, 116 hectares; Seventh Day
Adventist Mission, Kieta, 17 hectares; Seventh
Day Adventist Mission, New Britain, 31 hec-
tares. Figures are as at June 30, 1934, and are
taken from the “Report on the Administration
of the Territory of New Guinea” (Common-
wealth Govt. Printer, Canberra). One hectare
equals 2.471 acres.
4! <■ * ■ , , *
Any details about a book on marriage
written by a clergyman named Madan which
created a stir two hundred years ago; also
some details about the author? —9117.
The book is Thelyphthora, or A Treatise on
Female Ruin, by the Rev. Martin Madan, D.D.
Born in 1726, the author was educated for the
law, but took orders, later publishing
anonymously his book on marriage, which was
a critical examination of the position of
women under the existing system. As it con-
tained an argument in favor of polygamy,
which the author justified on economic and
moral grounds, it led ultimately to his retire-
ment from the pulpit. His published works
include several semi-theological books and
translations of Juvenal and others. He died
in 1790. Madan was a kinsman of Cowper,
who published a reply to his book in the
form of a fantastic tale entitled Anti-Thelyph-
thora.
4t 4< 4: 4:
1 understand that the length of a terrestrial
year (astronomicallyf is some minutes short
of 365 J days. How is the discrepancy pro-
vided for in the calendar ? —9755.
The tropical year (on which calendar compu-
tations are based) is, at latest computation,
365.2421988 days. Adding one day every
leap year makes up a little too much—
-0.0078012 of a day. In 400 years this error
amounts to 3.12048 days. Three of these days
are provided for by omitting the addition of
a, leap-year day in every century year not
divisible by 400. This leaves an error of
0.12048 of a day in 400 years, and as it takes
3320 years to bring the error up to one day
the makers of the Gregorian calendar reckoned
they had got near enough to accuracy.
4= 4= 4= 4c
(1) What is the relative standing, as tenors, of
Tauber and Caruso ? (2) Whom do you con-
sider the greatest tenor in history? (3) Who
are the five best tenors of to-day, in order of
merit ? —9743.
(1) Caruso was outstandingly the greater.
Tauber’s voice is not so even and fine in quality
throughout its range, nor is he so instinctive
a musician. (2) Memory of living people, the
only means whereby a comparison may be made,
extends over, at most, the last 75 years. Elderly
critics who have heard all the great singers
of the world place Caruso, first, De Reszke
second. But there may have been; finer singers
in earlier times. (3) Cannot pretend to say.
There are at least 30 tenors living who enjoy
a more or less world-wide reputation, and at
least a dozen at the top whose merits are so
even that every individual qualified to judge
would probably give a different placing.
H* 'fc H 5
(1) Whence arose the practice of the
audience rising for the '‘Hallelujah Chorus” in
“The Messiah” ? (2) Did Handel later be-
come blind ? (3) Is there any case on record
of a deaf composer writing notable music ?
(4) Any case of a deaf composer conducting
an orchestra ? —9637.
(1) The fashion was set by George 11., who
rose to his feet when the chorus was sung at
a London performance of the oratorio in 1743.
(2) His eyesight began to give him serious
trouble in 1750, and he composed the oratorio
‘.‘Triumph of Time and Truth” (1757) while
almost blind. (3) Yes. Beethoven was so
deaf that conversation with him could be
carried on only by writing when he composed
the “Hammerklavier” Sonata, the Ninth
Symphony (his greatest work) and several of
his most esteemed quartets. (4) No. In the
nature of things the feat would be impossible
in cases (to which there are very few excep-
tions) where the conductor, at rehearsals, must
instruct the orchestra. If he were deaf he
would be unable to pass judgment on the
effects produced.
* * *
Details concerning a composer named Fried-
rich Heinrich Himmel ? —8428.
He was a German, born in 1765 and died in
1814. He profited much by the patronage of
Frederick William 11., who, besides giving him
a three years’ musical education and sending
him to Italy for two years of further study,
gave him, on Reichardt’s dismissal, the Court
capellmeistership of Berlin. Himmel’s “Trauer-
cantate”. was especially written for the King’s
funeral in 1797, and his opera “Alessandro”
was the result of a commission from the Czar.
But his finest operatic work was “Fanchon, das
Leiermadchen” <1804), for which Kotzebue
wrote the libretto.
* * % *
Any details about a composer named Kuhlau,
whose sonatinas are well known ? Did he write
anything else, and what is his standing as a
composer ? —9703.
Born Hanover, 1786. Was a wanderer in
his early life, but learned to play piano and
flute, and also picked up a very sound know-
ledge of harmony and composition. Leaving
Germany to escape conscription, he. became
first flautist in the royal band at Copenhagen,
subsequently being appointed a professor of
music and composer to the Danish Court. A
genial, merry fellow who made friends every-
where, it is on record that on a visit to Vienna
in 1825 he induced the austere Beethoven to get
drunk on champagne. In 1830 the' greater part
of the MS. of Kuhlau’s compositions for piano
and flute was destroyed by fire. The sona-
tinas and several sets of variations on operatic
themes and Beethoven’s songs survived. The
best of the variations are listed by Litolff.
Kuhlau was not anywhere near the first flight
of composers, but he had a pretty gift of
melody and a knack of writing music which,
though brilliant in effect, was very easy to play.
**• * *
How can onion and . honey be taken as a
remedy for asthma ? —9548.
Tt cannot be described- as a “remedy”;
still the onion has been used of old for
bronchial disorders, asthma, catarrh, etc. For
internal use it may be prepared in many ways,
the active constituent (allyl sulphide) being
contained in the essential oil: that imparts the
odor. To prepare the mixture with honey,
cut or mince a. large onion finely, . add - suffi-
cient boiling vinegar to cover and allow to
stand overnight. In the morning add an equal
bulk of honey, and mix well together. Store
in screw-capped jar. The adult dose is one
teaspoon or more, - thrice daily as required.
Chew a sprig of parsley to remove odor from
breath.
* s- * *
Is playing tennis likely to have ill-effects on
a person just recently recovered from pleurisy
and pneumonia? Lung is still painful. —9623.
Active exercise should not be undertaken
until all symptoms of pleurisy and pneumonia
have subsided. There is danger of bronchial
congestion and possible breakage of pleurisy
adhesions, with consequent damage to the
lung tissue. Graduated exercise may be pre-
scribed later, the physical movements to be
associated with deep-breathing. Chill in any
form must be avoided.
♦ * #
My sister (21), in normal good health, is suf-
fering from a skin trouble manifested in large
patches of white skin surrounded by brown
skin. Trouble has spread over the whole of
the body, legs, arms and hands, but not face.
Name of disease and treatment ? —9606.
The term leucodermia is applied to the skin
disorder that develops in definite white patches.
Exact cause of the disease is unknown. There
are no subjective symptoms. Treatment is
unsatisfactory where there is an inherited trait.
Gland deficiency and nerve faults demand
attention otherwise. The patches may to some
extent be disguised by applying suitable cos-
metics.
* * * *
Is Tampico in Joseph Hergesheimer’s novel
of that name a real town ? —9744.
Yes, Tampico is a port on the Gulf of
Mexico, the town being situated some seven
miles from the bar of the River Panuco. It
is almost entirely surrounded by swamps and
lakes. Population is about 30,000.
* 4= 4! *
What English poet wrote the line “Music
hath charms to soothe the savage breast”? —
9773.
It is a misquotation of a line from William
Congreve’s “The Mourning Bride.” Correct
version is:
Music has charms to soothe a savage breast,
To soften rocks or bend a knotted oak.
Brief Answers.
G. 8.: An inquiry, supported by the fullest
possible information.,should be submitted to
the Registrar of Inscribed Stock, Common-
wealth-Bank, Melbourne... .H.W.G.: Ethel
Mannin was born in London in 1900. She
married John Alexander Porteous in 1919.
Her first novel, Martha, was published in
1923 P. 8.: Coomonderry is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning a small, narrow flat
H.W.: A list of “Dormant Funds in Court”
(Chancery) may be seen at the Public Library,
Bent-street, Sydney (N.S.W.). Sayers and Co.,
59 and 60 Chancery Lane, London, W.C.,
undertake inquiries for a . commission paid
out of the fund ■ by the missing heirs if or
when their claims are substantiated. But this
firm does not cater for inquiries relating to
supposed estates to which persons believe they
have a claim, as it has been found such claims
are as a rule illusory A.A.: The receipt of
a war pension of £1 per week would not of
itself debar the recipient from receiving an
old-age pension. Communicate with the State
Deputy-Commissioner of Pensions... .R.D.F.:
Write Superintendent, Sydney Technical
College, Harris-street, Sydney... .H.P.R.:
None likely to command other than small
prices from art dealers... .S.E.E.: Try a small
advt. in one of the poultry journals... .E.S.H.:
Write Director, Technological Museum,
Sydney, for pamphlet on the subject
W.F.C.: (1) With chronic pyelitis (four years)
without treatment it is possible that infection
would spread and cause general nephritis.
(2) One kidney alone could- be affected. (3)
Acute pyelitis is not necessarily a nephritis.
The former is an inflammation of the kidney
pelvis, the latter an inflammation of the kidney
itself. (4) Requirement of operation depends
upon cause. Removal of stone may be neces-
sary; internal antiseptics are indicated for
treatment of infective process. (5) Vaccine
can be prepared for treatment of mastoid
disease H.W.: The Art of Horse-Shoeing,
by W. Hunting (175.) .... J.R.: Any leading
bookseller could obtain the book from the
U.S.A. It would cost approximately Bs., and
you would have to wait about three months.
. ...T.H.: Although grown in many countries,
the export of Cannabis sativa is largely con-
fined to India. Cannabis indica, or Indian
hemp, is obtained from the dried flowering
tops. There is little or no demand for local
supplies. For further particulars, write
Elliotts and Australian Drug Co., O’Connell-
street, Sydney... .S.N.: There is a co-relation-
ship between loss of memory and the mental
trouble that hampers the appreciation of
spoken words and music. The latter originates
in a sensory aphasia or loss of “ear” for
harmony; a physiological cause can usually
be traced. Where there is no definite health
fault or pressure, organic changes in the brain
must be anticipated. In all cases medical
diagnosis should be sought R.P.E.: (1) It
is evident that prolonged standing has aggra-
vated the varicose development. Treatment
depends on location and extent of trouble.
(2) Preliminary home treatment involves
bandaging of the affected limb. Proceed
from ball of foot to knee, but do not restrict
normal circulation. (3) Although the vein
can be dissected out, quinine and urethane
injection for obliteration is usually resorted
to. Local treatment otherwise is largely
palliative in effect. (4) The elastic crepe
bandage is prescribed for ready adjustment.
A.T.: When the stems of poinsettias are
cut a milky juice is exuded. It is not poison-
ous, but causes intense irritation, especially
to the mouth and eyes. If the affected parts
are washed in a solution of warm water (one
quart) and Epsom salts (one teaspoonful) the
irritation will soon vanish D.M.H.: The
leaf forwarded is from a eucalypt, but species
cannot be determined from leaves alone.
Specimens showing fruits, and buds if
possible, should be forwarded. River-gum
timber is used for general fencing purposes,
but is not regarded as very durable in the
ground compared with other species. When
used for posts, its durability is increased if
treated with creosote C.G.8.: Do not
know of any book dealing solely with this
subject. It is covered in Gas and Oil Engine
Operation, by J. Okill; ss. 9d., post free, from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney R.M.: (1),
(2), (8) and (9) Spotted gum. (3) Tea-tree. (4)
Working boat, spotted gum; yacht, dear-grain
Oregon or kauri. (5) and (7) Beech. (6)
Fine-grain Oregon. (10) Oregon AJ.:
The Bahrein Islands, famous for their pearl
fisheries, are governed by an Arab sheik under
a British protectorate established in 1867
S.S.: They are all Mexican. Guadeloupe,
which rises from an oceanic abyss, is 15 miles
long. Cedros is inhabited chiefly by a fishing
community, and Revilla Gigedo, a rocky
island group of which the largest, the mountain
island Socorro, is 24 miles long, was formerly
a large convict settlement... .C.R.: Australia —
Total consumption of wheat, 57,129,000
bushels; wheat used for human consumption,
32,829,000 bushels; wheat used for all other
purposes, including seed, 24,300,000 bushels;
number of bushels used per head of popula-
tion, 8.58. N.S.W.- —Wheat used as food
for human consumption, 12,937,000 bushels;
wheat used as seed, 4,585,000 bushels; wheat
used for other purposes, 3,250,000 bushels;
number of bushels used per head of popula-
tion, 7.94. Figures are for 1933-34 C.W.:
Get in touch with Deputy-Commissioner,
Repatriation Commission, Sydney... .R.H.:
Modern Pise Building, by K. Edington (245.),
obtainable through any leading bookseller, and
Building in _ Cob and Pise de Terre (Report
No. 5, British Research Board), published by
H.M. Stationery Office, London (25.)....
A.D.: Write Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney,
for a copy of Angler’s Guide (free) and
Fishing Secrets, by “J.A.D.” (Is. 6d.) AJ.
(Darwin): (1) Cannot make recommendations
without seeing book. (2) Angus and Robert-
son, . Sydney ... .K.L.: Cannot trace P.D.:
Nubingerie is a N.S.W. abo. word meaning
“young man”; Gabesgong is a W.A. abo.
word meaning “fresh water close to the sea.”
. ...D.8.: The “Manning River Times” and
the “Northern Champion” are both published
at Taree (N-5.W.)... .(Many others mailed.)


SMOKE-OH!
Another Feature Broadcast.
“Station EOE speaking. The taime
is just 11.30. Owar feature to-naight is
a description of the festivities attend-
ing the seeing of the Old Year out and
the New Year in. This novel broadcast
is brought to you bay courtesay of Face-
ache’s Pharmacies, makers of the famous
Patent Anti-Flatulent Globules, guaran-
teed to settle any stomach ...
“Studio taime a quarrer to twelve. Just
a moment while I adjust my glasses;
there’s two full ones on the table. Well,
feshtivities now in full swing, an’ I wish
Bing Crosby was shame way, blarstim
an’ his recordsh. Well, here’s luck, lish-
nersh . . . Ah-h-h! Fillemupagen,
Claude . . .
“Well, ash I was shayin’, Fishface’s
Potent Aunty Glatulent Flobules guar-
anteed not to lose their shine, and can
be used by any—er —good handyman
for relacquerin’ ole bootsh or as thinners.
They c’n be purchash at all stores except
the Gash Co.
“Here’s Uncle Egbert at the mike!
Goo’ ole Eg . . . poor cow does kids’
shession, early-morn’ shession an’ bushted
’is arm windin’ gramophone handlesh.
That funny sound y’ hear, lishnesh, ish
Uncle Egbert’s tonsils cornin’ up for
air.
“Well, feshtivty goin’ good-oh, sho
we’ll shelbrate with music. Jush wound
gramophone up, forsh habit, sho we’ll
hear Gus Sweetlad an’ his band play
‘Does Vargner Give the Willies to the
Lowbrows?’ . . . Join in chorus,
lishnesh . . . here’s a go, Eg! Lesh all
'have good time, an’ talking of goo’ times
recalls value of Glashache’s Facient Anti-
Glaubish Flubobsh. Cures baldnesh,
dropped chest, ingrowin’ toenails an’
chronic ilcohosh, chrinic olcohash —
dammit, diphomania. This wun’ful med-
shine ish made by Phizogg’s Pharmshies,
makers alsho of bullswool hairshirts,
stainless tennish racquets and knockproof
suspendersh., Studio time ish —warra
time, Claude, eh? Jush on twelve. Well,
here’s to New Year, berran ole one.
Hope y’ enjoyed that deshcripsh, lishnesh.
“Now, all together an’ lesh shing ‘Ole
Lang Syne’ an’ ole Stevo’s, too . . . Good-
oh, an’ now a li’l shoft lul’by music to
go to bye-bye by. Wharrabout the Anvil
Chorush from Toshti’s ‘Goo’-bye,’ eh?
“Well, that complesh our programme,
lishnesh. Good —hie—night, an’ compli-
mensh sheashon. Goooo —hie!”
S. W. K.
•f* 4* 4*
“A Judge in a Sydney court reprimanded
a man for yawning in court.”
Then he gave him a good stretch.
-I* *f*
“Well-known organist fined for ignoring a
policeman’s signal to stop.”— News item.
Strange that an organist should ignore
a stop.
•F *F »F •!*
Leap Year Advice for Bashful
Swains.
Before permitting yourself to be kissed
it is well to struggle. Don’t overdo it.
If the girl insists on taking you into
her lap protest steadily for some time—
as long as you think she will stand it.
But hang on.
The proper moment to put your head
on her shoulder depends upon circum-
stances. If you are several feet taller
than she is, allow her to sit down on
the sofa first; you can then stretch your-
self along the floor until you strike the
right angle.
Accept the ring in the same kindly
spirit in which it is given. You can
have it tested quietly later, and if it isn’t
up to the mark inform her coyly that
it has been a tradition in your family
for generations back that the young man
should have his choice of several.
Have it understood at the start that
she is to send you no gifts. For you
can depend upon it that even in leap year
the kind of things a girl would send a
man are not available as security any-
where.
Let it be clearly understood from the
start that if she illtreats you in any way
you will go home to father.
Neil.
•F *F *F *F
News.
The Commissioner of Police looked
stern.
“Well, constable?”
“If you please, General Brainy, the
reporters waiting without wish to know
if there is anything for the press.”
The Commissioner shuffled his papers
like a pack of cards.
“There’s that £50,000 robbery in the
city. There’s the suicide at Altona, the
“ William, if I reach bottom of page before the rest of ’ee, give me a
nudge, will ’ee?”
murder at St. Albans, the assault at
Aspendale. There’s the robbery with
violence at Toorak, the cat burglar who
has been operating in the southern
suburbs, and the theft of £2OOO worth
of jewels at Malvern.”
The Commissioner smiled.
“Now for file 49. Take this
down, constable: Thieves attempted to
break into an electric-tram shed,
but were unable to unlock the
door.’ Here’s another: ‘Willie Tomp-
kins reports that his moneybox was
broken and the sum of sevenpence
halfpenny stolen.’ Wind up with
an assault: ‘Johnny Saunders, aged
seven, was accosted by a stranger about
nine years of age, who pulled his hair,
called him Carrots and stole 19 cherry-
bobs from him.’
“Give those to the reporters, and if
they’re not satisfied tell them we have a
fine account of an attack by an Alsatian
upon a rent-collector. That will be is-
sued to-morrow. That’s all for to-day,
constable.”
And the Commissioner resumed his
scrutiny of his files.
Arev.
4- *l* *F *F
“A man of the name of Faith has taken
out a license as a carrier.”
In future Faith will move furniture.
Fair Exchange.
“I’m surprised at a boy of your age
reading books like this,” said the clergy-
man. “This is only for grown-ups like
mummy and daddy. You shouldn’t want
to read it. Haven’t you got your toys?
Last time I was here I saw a beautiful
new clockwork train and a clockwork
boat. Where are they?”
“Aw,” said the kid, “the old man’s
playing with them.”
Sef.
4* *F *F *F
“ ‘Hunger,’ says a psychologist, ‘has a re-
markable effect in speeding up the brain.’ ”
Have you ever noticed how remarkably
well-fed our politicians look?
-I- -F -I- *F
Regeneration.
It was New Year’s Eve.
He locked the door of his study, took
pen and paper and sat down thought-
fully. He had been considering the past
year.
Yes, he had been slipping lately. He
had been drifting with circumstance,
allowing it to prove a stronger force than
his will. He had been living the life of
a puppet. It was high time that he
should govern his straying impulses and
show that he definitely held the reins of
control. He must prove that he was the
master of his soul!
So, with obvious determination, he
proceeded to write:
“I hereby swear that I will not get
drunk during the entire week ending Jan.
7, 1936.”
T. W. N.
■ “Wedding Results from Fishing Party.”
—Newspaper heading.
There was bound to be a catch in it
somewhere.
. , 4* *F »F
“A man in divorce said that his wife was
a sarcastic woman, and she threw kitchen
utensils at him.”
That’s not sarcasm ; it’s more like flat-
irony.
•F -F *F 4*
The Exception.
The nerve-racking noise of a pneu-
matic drill echoed through the street.
“It’s dreadful,” said the grocer’s wife.
“Half the time we can’t hear what the
customers are saying, and we have to
shout at them to repeat their order.”
“It’s the same with us,” lamented Mrs.
Smyth. “We can scarcely hear a word
we say.”
In local offices more complaints were
being voiced. The general question was,
“How on earth can you work with that
going on?” And the usual reply was,
“I’ll go mad if it keeps up much longer.”
Jobson alone looked complacent, and
actually smiled as he stood by his open
window, through which poured the con-
tinuous racket. His expression was even
beneficent; he didn’t mind the drill a
scrap.
It kept Mrs. Jobson quiet.
Han.
Telime More’s Almanack for 1936.
(This will be a bad year for bachelors .)
January: Generally fine and warm; beaches
well frequented; severe bushfires in Adel-
aide hills. Abyssinia reports heavy defeat
of Italians, with thousands killed. Italians
report overwhelming victory, with thou-
sands slain. Ras Batsa goes over to
Italians with two men and a boy. Promi-
nent doctor denies sun-baking harmful to
left-handed women. League decides to
discuss oil sanctions.
February: An extra day this month. Scientist
reports discovery of cure for hay-fever.
Premier Have-a-heart (Alberta) postpones
national dividend till July. Mr. Lyons
denies rumor of retirement. Abyssinians
report annihilation of Italian army;
Abyssinian casualties, 16 births. Sanctions
on palm oil.
March: Hot winds, particularly in Federal
Territory. Visiting singer says Melbourne
audiences more musical than Sydney.
Westralia seeks increased Federal grant.
Champion tennis-player displays tempera-
ment in Brisbane. Huge Abyssinian vic-
tory denied. Minister Pearce initiates
“Youth in Politics” campaign. Sanctions
on cod-liver oil.
April: Prominent cleric protests against hold-
ing Sydney Show on Good Friday. Prince
of Wales denies rumored engagement to
Zasu Pitts. Well-known bookmaker pur-
chases new car. Sanctions on peanut oil.
May: May Day riots in Paris, Madrid and
Innisfail. Rainy season begins in Abys-
sinia. First official casualty lists released.
Abyssinian losses —two chiefs (deserted),
four uniformed officers (disrobed), six
other officers (dismembered), five men (dis-
mayed). Italian losses —seven Askaris (be-
wildered), one white n.c.o (d.ts.) and two
men (corns). Sanctions on oilskins, gum-
boots and umbrellas.
June: Prominent politician {plus wife and
family) leaves for England. Football
umpire knocked unconscious in Mel-
bourne. Mysterious sampan reported in
Gulf of Carpentaria. Plan for Labor
unity rejected. Heavy rains in Abyssinia.
July: Very heavy rains in Abyssinia; two
mules drowned. Consternation in the
Millions Club; secretary unable to find
any more guests of honor. Mr. Lyons
again denies rumor of resignation.
Premier Have-a-heart postpones dividend
another year. Sanctions on sealskins;
protest from rabbiters.
August: Exceedingly heavy rains in Abys-
sinia. General Badoglio’s camp stretcher
under water. Sydney bank clerks on
strike for restoration of August Bank
Holiday; bookmakers’ clerks called in as
strike-breakers. Controversy in “S. M.
Herald”: “Our National Flower —Wattle
or Waratah?” South Australian centenary
visitor arrives in Adelaide.
September: Rain ceases in Abyssinia; opposing
generals inspect the pitch; ground still
soggy; war postponed till Oct. 1.
Waitress wins big prize in State L y.
Clergyman delivers sermon on “Drinking
at Dances.” Another Nazi purge reported.
Sanctions on castor oil suggested.
October: Sudden cloudburst in Abyssinia five
minutes before zero hour on 1st; war
further postponed; Associated Press pro-
tests to League against time-wasting tactics,
and demands that war be proceeded with.
“Labor Daily” reports in full Mr. Beas-
ley’s smashing indictment of Australian
banks. Eight-hour Day procession in
Adelaide hooted by Five-hour Day move-
ment.
November: Well-known racehorse wins Mel-
bourne Cup. Mr. Ogilvie denies sending
birthday greetings to Major Douglas.
Prominent member of Surry Hills society
joins Oxford Group. Minister for Customs
bans Mrs. Beeton’s Cookery Book. League
awakes from long sleep and imposes sanc-
tions on garter elastic. No weather re-
ports from Abyssinia.
December: Melbourne freethinker denies ex-
istence of Father Christmas. Peru declares
war on Tibet over Abyssinian question.
Sanctions on llamas and lamas. Annual
shipping strike on Australian coast. Year
ends as usual (but a day later).
Jasby.
*F *F *F *F
“How to pick a husband.”— Advice to girls.
That’s easy! By his downtrodden ex-
pression.
The Militant.
“.... and let us at all times fight for
our freedom from slave conditions. Why
should we take orders from anyone?
‘Aggressiveness’ should be our watchword,
and a fearless defiance of our tor-
mentors our ceaseless attitude!”
That was the stuff to give ’em ! A
glow of conscious pride oozed over
Henry Reddazel as he pondered his own
words. The most militant member of
the Militant Group in the Birdseed
Graders’ Union, he was rapidly estab-
lishing a reputation for oratorical bel-
ligerency.
The sound of a ponderous step made
him look up. An E.O.S. female, heavy
of jowl, lips drawn down at the corners
and hands on hips, glared at him.
“Wasting your time again with that
writing? And me been slaving over a
hot stove. I’ve just stacked the dishes.
Y’ can get into that washing-up!”
A momentary gleam of contention
flickered in Henry’s eye. Then, with a
sigh, he put down his pen.
“Or-orright, Em,” he said mildly. “I’m
just cornin’.”
Quayeau.
Confession.
“ ‘Toil, like gin, should be taken in modera-
tion,’ says a famous nerve specialist.”
I’m on the crest of Fortune’s wave;
There’s nothing I daren’t do or say.
I’m lord of all that I survey;
I’m master rather than the slave.
Of this world’s goods I have my fill;
I’ve no real reason to be blue —
I have a wife who’s sweet and true
And lovely as a daffodil.
I have a yacht, two motor-cars,
A home, a host of maids and cooks,
A faithful dog, three walls of books,
A box of tinsel-wrapped cigars.
But I’m disconsolate—to raise
My spirits or implant the seed
Of pleasure in my breast, I need
Three hundred-odd more holidays!
P.O.M.C.
Happy Situation.
I’m very pleashed indeed to shay
That—hie—the prospect that 1 sliee,
After thish bonzer New Year’sh Day,
Is jusht as happy ash can be!
It ishn’t that I’ve made no vow
So good old sinsh will not recursh :
I’ve made a dozen — hie —but now
I can’t remember what they wereshl
NAT.


USEFUL DATA ON MORRIS 8/40.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 35 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 16
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 9
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 24ft. 6in.
Maximum sfceed, 55.4 m.p.h.
Petroi consumption, 32.8 m.p.g.
“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for Raybestos, which has proved itself over many years of service .
ft A YBES TOS- BE LACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
TO
KEEP YOUR CAR
you NO
CHAMPIONS
PION
ca N n D a S o°a R ' SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
The Steering Column.
TESTING THE MORRIS 8/40.
MANY BIG-CAR FEATURES.
BY FRED BERRY.
A V/HERE economical, speedy, reliable transportation is
▼ V desired the Morris 8/40 demands special attention.
Average sales of 1000 a week in England since this model was
put on the market foreshadow its ready acceptance in Australia
by purchasers of light cars.
Though the car is small, the design includes important
big-car features such as full-length springs, full-length box
frame, and Lockheed hydraulic brakes, ensuring sturdiness and
freedom from irritating minor defects.
Further confidence is given to prospective users of Morris
cars by the factory announcement that with this series ceases the
annual production of new models, the latest range being
regarded as so satisfactory that whatever improvements or
modifications are deemed necessary from time to time will be
made without change of type.
Mechanically the Morris 8/40 is a
big car in miniature. The four-cyl.
engine, bore 57mm., stroke 90mm., has
a cubic capacity of 918 c.c. R.A.C.
rating is 8.9 h.p., and maximum b.h.p.
22 at 3400 r.p.m. The motor is mounted
in the chassis on improved “equipoise”
suspension. Cylinders are cast integral
with upper half of crankcase, which
is extended well below crankshaft centre
to ensure rigidity. Cylinder head is de-
tachable, and combustion-chamber de-
sign permits maximum efficiency with-
out pinking. Side-by-side valves are
used, with ready means of adjustment
for tappet clearance. The three-bearing
camshaft actuating the valves is driven
by a silent duplex roller chain from the
crankshaft.
Crankshaft is of large diameter, run-
ning on three steel-backed white-metal
bearings, and is balanced statically and
dynamically. Connecting-rods are I-sec-
tion steel forgings. Pistons are of alu-
minium alloy, having three rings— two
compression and an oil-return ring.
Pistons and connecting-rods are care-
fully balanced and matched in weight, as
in aero-engine practice, the maximum
permissible variation being one-fifth
ounce.
Fuel is carried in a tank at
the rear and fed to a horizontal-type
automatic SU carburettor by an electri-
cal pump giving positive feed at ail
engine speeds and capable of filling the
float chamber without running the
engine. Inlet and exhaust manifolds are
integral castings with central hot-spot.
Dash control provides wide variation of
mixture range for most efficient seasonal
operation, and for purposes of economy
or power.
Full-length, “big-car” type semi-elliptic
springs on all four wheels of the Morris
8140, controlled by hydraulic shock-
absorbers.
Motor is automatically lubricated by
a spur gear pump driven from camshaft
and set low in the sump to avoid prim-
ing troubles. Oil is delivered under pres-
sure to main, big-end and camshaft bear-
ings, with auxiliary feed for camshaft
driving chain.
Sporting lines and sturdy construction of the 8/40 Morris sports roadster.
Ignition is by Lucas six-volt battery-
and-coil system, the distributor head
being provided with automatic advance
and retard. A heavy-duty generator pro-
vides current, provision being made for
cutting-in current at low road speeds.
Starter motor is sliding-pinion type,
bolted directly to flywheel housing. Cool-
ing system is thermo-syphon, with fan
mounted on cylinder block.
Transmission is through a single-plate,
dry-disc clutch, in unit with the engine,
to a three-speed-and-reverse gearbox
with synchromesh mechanism for top
and second gears. All pinions are nickel
steel. Gear lever is located centrally,
with ball change, and gearbox is pro-
vided with an accessible oil-filling orifice
and dipstick level indicator, allowing
attention to be given without disturbing
the floorboards.
The drive from gearbox to differential
is by balanced tubular propeller shaft
fitted with Spicer needle-roller univer-
sal joints front and rear.
Final-drive gears are spiral bevel type,
mounted in sturdy pressed-steel housing.
Final reduction is 5.375 to 1 in top,
9.729 to 1 second, 17.13 to 1 bottom,
22.84 to 1 reverse.
Chassis is of full-length downswept box
type. Suspension system includes long
semi-elliptic springs front and rear, fully
controlled by Armstrong hydraulic
shock-absorbers with automatic “cold-
weather” regulation. Front shock-
absorbers are mounted outboard. Track
is 45in., wheelbase 90in., and minimum
road clearance 6|in.
Four-wheel, foot-operated service
brakes are of Lockheed self-equalising
hydraulic type, a centrally disposed hori-
zontal hand-brake lever actuating an in-
dependent mechanical set of brakes on
the rear wheels through a short' cross
rod and cables. Hand brake is provided
with instantaneous adjustment from
driver’s seat.
Steering gear is Bishop cam, cross-
steering type, eliminating road shocks
transmitted to steering-wheel. Dashboard
instrument's are neatly grouped, and in-
clude speedometer, starting and lighting
switch, ignition warning indicator,
ammeter, oil-pressure gauge and fuel
gauge. Horn button is located adjacent
to driver’s hand on an extension from
the steering column beneath the wheel.
Tools and battery are housed in an
accessible position in a metal box on the
dash under the engine bonnet.
The car tested, driven by H. T. Hay-
ward, of York Motors, Ltd., N.S.W. dis-
tributors, was a roadster model with im-
ported body. Speedometer recorded
7719 miles, and the car weighed, with
driver, observer and
full tank, 16|cwt.
As would be ex-
pected from a car of
short wheelbase and
narrow track, traffic-
dodging even in peak-
hour congestion
pro ve d a simple
process ; consequently
the run to Parramatta
was accomplished in
smarter time than
would be possible
using a full - track
sedan of greater
power and speed. On
the open road through Baulkham Hills the
speedometer hovered around the 45 mark,
while main-road hills were negotiated in
top. Though this speed involved high
engine revs, there was a pleasing absence
of vibration. Once having attained
cruising speed one can close the accel-
erator considerably and still maintain
road speed on reasonable going, a cer-
tain indication of economy in fuel.
At Pitt Town speed was reduced to 15
m.p.h., and the car coasted in neutral
615 yards before coming to rest.
Neat layout of driver’s compartment
showing neatly arranged dashboard in-
struments and handy position of emer-
gency brake and horn button.
Approaching Richmond, a test of
maximum speed was made over a
measured mile, the time taken, 55sec.f
averaging 55.4 m.p.h. On this timed
section the windscreen was left. erected,
and a slight head wind was blowing.
Leaving Richmond the unmade dirt
road through Grose Vale was taken, and
over this extremely rough route the
Morris suspension proved remarkably
good, less road shock being noticeable
than in larger sedans. Steering being
of high-geared type, was easy yet
positive, and the little sports roadster
could be thrown into a readily controlled
skid when cornering fast with perfect
safety.
Approaching Kurrajong, the timed hill
climb, consisting of the final 2 1-5 miles,
including the steepest sections and most
difficult bends, was conducted, the time
taken being smin. 19sec. Second and
bottom gears were used throughout. Re-
turning down the mountain a test of
the emergency braking equipment was
made with fair results, and taking the
cross-country route via Castlereagh to
Penrith further performance tests were
taken.
Slow running in top gear for a dis-
tance of 350yds. was followed by a
similar distance on full throttle, still in
top, to determine engine flexibility. On
the slow-running section, timed in 2min.
15sec., average speed was 5.3 m.p.h., and
the accelerated run was covered in 21
2-ssec., finishing at 45 m.p.h., giving an
average of. 33.6 m.p.h.
From 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top occupie
16sec.; 10 to 30 in second, 9sec.; and
to 50, through all gears, 3 5 sec.
From 25 m.p.h. the hydraulic brak<
stopped the car in 24ft. 6in. Turnir
circle on left and right locks was measure
at 36ft., whilst minimum ground clea


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
.....
y vt, T.;.;;ria»iVrr' -
A few easy strokes with the wonderful Simoniz
Kleener makes cars sparkle like new.
zxc
zxc
Simoniz protects the finish. Makes it last
longer, and keeps cats beautiful.
i2B
ttsi&mm
IH
f/oicrrulx
SIMONiZ
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOE STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, »/-.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FRO VI “THE BULLETIN,” 4/Q
252 George St., Sydney, 0/0
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
V
VV\>
ik
1 mm
am
■ I
li
■■l
•: :- : v':
U
mm
»;»»»&
■ i
V • B
■
Kll
: ;■
1
m.
f-.';VV v . ;.>
wuicß
jAlglf.r
ance below diff. housing was found to
be 6fin.
The time taken for the journey of 117
miles, 3hr. 15min., gave an average
speed, inclusive of all tests, of 36 m.p.h.
Emergency brake lever located between
front bucket seats, showing instantaneous
adjustment for tension.
The fast trip was reflected in the petrol
consumption, 3gal. pints, averaging
32.8 m.p.g. (27.1 ton miles), a result cap-
able of great improvement at a more
sedate pace.
Diagrammatic section of Morris 8/40 rear-axle assembly. Fabric universal at
front of diff. assembly is replaced in hew models by needle-roller type.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
H.L.M. (Stoker’s Siding, N.S.W.).—(I) Is it
possible to drive an ordinary car generator with
a 2%-h.p. Douglas motor-cycle engine to charge
a six-volt battery ? (2) At what speed should
the generator be run ? (3) Would the engine
be powerful enough ? (4) At what speed
would the engine develop enough power ? (5)
Woidd this outfit be reliable if properly
erected ?
(1) Yes; a similar engine has been used for
this purpose by military signallers for years
with success. (2) Anything from 500 to 3000
r.p.m.; it depends on generator design. (3)
Yes, ample reserve. (4) 500 to 1000 r.p.m.
(5) Yes.
* * * *
R.H.A. (Maryborough, Q.). —My ’29 sedan
is heavy on benzine, and gives only 16.8
m.p.g. at 40 m.p.h. on test. I desire reliability
and reasonable petrol consumption in my new
car. Will you advise which of'the cars named
l should select ?
Very little to choose. See data published in
B. 20/11/’35.
H* 'l s H 4 H*
J.B.C. (Oakey, Q.). —1 recently bought a ’29
o.h.v. Ifrh.p. motor-cycle. Completely over-
hauled, including rebore and new pistons,
there are ample power and acceleration, but
petrol consumption has dropped to 45 m.p.g.
Cause and cure ?
Rcbore increases swept volume and
usually fuel consumption, but you should get
at least 60 m.p.g. Suggest checking for air
leaks in gaskets or valve guides, together with
level in float chamber. If new pistons and
gudgeons are tight, consumption will improve
after running- in.
* * * *
J.G.D. (Balfe’s Creek, N.Q.). —(1) My six-
year-old car has a badly-scored cylinder. I
have been advised that by putting colloidal
graphite in the sump oil it will in time lodge
in the scoring and eventually fill it, restoring
cylinder to original condition. Is this correct ?
(2) Would you advise using litharge if graphite
is unsuitable ? (3) Why is graphite used in oil
and petrol ?
(1) No. It is impossible to smooth out a
deep cylinder score by this process. (2) Only
certain remedy is to rebore or reline cylinder.
(3) When running in a new motor colloidal
graphite assists in smoothing out hills and hol-
lows in the metal, and by depositing a thin
film over all moving parts greatly minimises
friction and prevents seizure.
J.R. (Cairns, Q.). —(1) Does a speedometer
register zero after 100,000 miles and then begin
from 1 again, as does the trip record ? (2)
What causes rolling of the dial in the speed-
ometer ? (3) Is the speedometer adjusted on
the same principle as a governor ?
(1) Depends on make of meter, but all start
from zero after a full row of nines. (2) Due
to wear either in drive mechanism or inside
speedometer unit. (3) Some speedomr. rs are
governor-controlled; others are actual.' ! elec-
trically.
* * *
J.E.P. (Hay, N.S.W.).—(I) My ’34 eight-
cylinder utility truck gives only 15 m.p.g. run-
ning round paddocks, and I am not satisfied.
(2) Address of Solex distributors?
(1) Mileage is fair under such conditions.
(2) Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avenue, Sydney,
are N.S.W. agents.
* * * *
A.E.G, (Milton, N.S.W.). —The mechanical
brakes of my six-cylinder car have been
recently relined, and the car pulls up as well
as when first purchased, but the stop light at
rear now refuses to light up. Why ?
Stop-light switch is coupled up through a
lever on the cross shaft, and now, with new
brake linings, pedal travel is too short to make
the contact on stop-light switch. Slack off nut
on cross-shaft bearing and tap the stop-light
lever back until light shows with present pedal
travel.
* * * *
E.L. (Essendon, Vic.). —My ’26 four-cylinder
sports car (43,000 miles ) is still running well,
and compression is even on all cylinders, but,
after running on full throttle for from 20 to
30 miles, the driver’s compartment becomes
filled with oil fumes and the car is very un-
comfortable to drive. Any remedy?
Either pistons or cylinders are so badly
worn that considerable quantities of burned
oil are forced past piston rings through the
crankcase breather and so into the cockpit, or
rear main bearing is slack and oil escaping
past is thrown by the flywheel to the hot ex-
haust pipe and burned. Only permanent
remedy is to rebore engine and fit new pistons
and rings, or take up main bearings, which-
ever may be the cause. Meanwhile, a close-
fitting rubber mat in the front compartment,
with flexible “spats” on pedal controls, brake
and gear lever, will prevent fumes from worry-
ing those in the front seat.
* * * *
S.O’D. (Fremantle, W.A.). —My car is a ’26
model (52,000 miles), and still gives satisfac-
tory performance except for the brakes, which
in rainy weather or after washing are seldom
efficient and for some days afterwards persist
in squealing when applied vigorously.
Remedy ?
Water is entering the brake housing. Re-
designing would be expensive. The only other
course open is to exercise caution after wash-
ing or when driving in rain, and apply brakes
at frequent intervals to dry them. Relining
shoes with moulded linings would give better
results.


Opening Chapters of a Fine Serial .
ISLAND HERITAGE
BY ALISON SMITH
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person .]
0 ELUQJiJTr IRATT OE D IB'SIT G.CK.TTQW/^CHCEMCD
Prologue.
FLUNG out more than a day’s sail from
Levuka lies long Valoa, glowing in blue
seas amid her sister islands —peaked Ruvia,
white-beached Namaya and others that have less to
do with the tale. On Valoa is a small white and
variegated-white settlement, growing drowsier with the
years.
A District Commissioner is stationed there in a
pleasant grey-roofed house standing back from the
sun-dappled road among drooping trees. At a becom-
ing distance and fronting the same beach road is the
sleepy store on its high piles, an angular building with
its dwelling-house beside it. One or two smaller stores
run by half-castes make up Valoa’s shopping centre ; it
is hereabouts that the aromas of baking bread and
bagged copra mingle, not quite happily. Two or three
families of mixed blood dwell in hospitable houses
along the same picturesque coast-winding road. There
is the Fijian town of Valoa, too, shadowy with great
mango-trees and seeming to swarm with children and
dogs, gaudily-colored fowls and ducks splashing with
an occasional pig in a puddly creek. There are more
of these native towns scattered throughout the long
island, and here and there the homestead of an
isolated settler, fronting a drowsy beach or high on
the slope of a hill. Valoa was like that, too, in the
days when James Laurence settled first in neighboring
Ruvia.
Ruvia is a hilly island, the land is good and
sweet, and creeks, rarely dry, run through its green
valleys to the sea. It is, as are most of those lonely
holdings, a copra plantation. Cutters, dependent
mainly on the wind in those early days when Laurence
first came there, carried the evil-odored merchandise
down to Levuka —cutters caught sometimes in burn-
ing calms, when the copra sweated on deck or in the
oily hold and the brown crew lolled in forced indo-
lence, or flying down with a favoring wind.
Laurence was in his late thirties then. He was a
strongly-made, dominant man with a proud sense of
his own physical power and endurance. Youth had
died early in him ; his life from boyhood had been
strenuous and rough. At fourteen he had run away
to sea and found more hard knocks than he had
bargained for —as was to be expected, given a lad of
his stubborn temperament. The stirring, eventful
years made short work of the bloom of boyhood ;
they hammered him over-swiftly into a hard man-
hood ; at eighteen he bore the name of being a
“dangerous customer” to meddle with. He was a good
man to depend on in a tight corner, an uncompromis-
ing, sometimes vindictive, enemy, but generous to a
fault.
Many a shipmate of his remembered good
turns done unostentatiously, and, as far as Laurence
was concerned, forgotten. He took his fill of what
the world could give him in those wandering years,
and life was to him a thousand changing impres-
sions—blue, lonely fields of sea; Eastern ports,
ancient, secretive, filled with strong lights and shadows,
and with winding furtive streets where wanton women
went in a strange domesticity ; again the rolling blue
fields ; a malodorous town where a yellow river flowed
out turbidly to stain the sea; the embraces of light
women ; a honey-haired girl whose name he forgot;
another whose wounded dark gaze remained with
him long after their farewell; swinging robust sea-
chanties, and always the rolling fields of turquoise and
purple. All these were to him the familiar things
of day and night. Yet no woman of all the chance-
met, easy girls was to do more than put clinging
hands a moment on his life, and then fade back into
more or less colorful memories.
But he tired at length of that hazardous, roving
life ; deep-rooted in him the desire had been long
growing of finding a country in which he might make
a home. He was beginning to long for a healthful,
simple life, close to the kindly earth: the sea had had
him long enough ; it was time to break away before
its yoke was on him for ever. Perhaps, too, those
casual encounters had sown in him the longing
for a woman, not as those he had so lightly
embraced, but one to be his own and no other’s.
Ambition, too, might come to fruit in such a life ; he
wanted fertile acres that would in due time pass to
the son he desired passionately to father. A good
life, close to the earth, a wife and children to grow
around him.
Fiji allured him from the first
when the brooding hills of Suva
loomed out of a misty dawn,
broadening later into a crystal-
clear, still morning in which the little town took on
across the stream where his barque lay moored, mirror-
ing itself in cool, mysterious depths, a dreamlike,
evanescent beauty. It was not long after that that
he left the sea to settle in Fiji.
Life was not such a strenuous business in these
indolent isles ; the bland air, the vivid colorings and
the carefree dark folk pleased him. It was not long
before he drifted to the outer isles —more out of the
world then than now. He took on overseering billets,
he traded, he saved steadily with the one object in
view of buying a plantation and carving himself a
place in the country that so enthralled him. He pros-
pered, and when Ruvia came into the market cheap
he was able to make a bid for it; he found moneyed
men to back him; and at last, exultant, felt that
destiny was in his hands.
It had never been in his mind to become entangled
with dark women. But he was still young then, and
Ruvia, which was to mould him into the autocratic
James Laurence of later years, had not yet entirely
cast her spell about him. The loneliness of the house
he had built for himself began to oppress him ; he
found himself remembering the old days of sail and
steam and friendships and the soft eyes of women in
many a salty town. He found a half-caste girl grow-
ing like a dark lily in drowsy Valoa and took her for
his mistress. She gave him a little blue-eyed son ; and
a year later, tiring of his arbitrary nature, fled with
a schooner captain who owed Laurence a grudge. It
is not altogether true to say that Laurence, left with
the tiny boy on his hands, wholly mourned the faith-
less Tessa, but certainly the affront to his pride cut
deep. And that continued companionship with the
young and merry girl had added to his harsher life a
pleasant savor of domesticity ; had, indeed, created a
vague hunger in him for a woman’s presence within
his austere walls. And the little Roddy needed a
mother.
There his awkward tenderness flowed out. His
little son! Simple and primitive man that he was,
the son was everything to him. But he wished with
all his soul that the boy’s blood were as clear as his
own —the touch of color was fatal. He had had
thoughts of marrying Tessa solely for the boy’s sake.
But he could make Roddy’s position secure enough.
Moods possessed him in which his arrogance and
determination came storming to his aid. By God!
he’d make the boy the equal of any white child; his
own blood was in him ; he was fair-skinned, and the
dark-blue eyes were his own again. Hard on these
moods came the knowledge that the mixture of races
in the boy would defeat him, however hard he fought
—like would call to like, and the goodly heritage he
would hand his son would ultimately revert to
descendants in whom the dark strain had prevailed.
Or the fickleness of the mother would be repeated in
the son —there would be no hard foundation to build
on in such a nature. He vexed himself with these and
like perplexities.
The boy was nearly two, a sturdy, climbing rogue,
when the thought came to him that he might still
father a son all white. And it would be good to
have a woman about the house again—a wife this
time, and no fickle mistress. It was odd that he felt
little sentiment about the business of this unknown
bride beyond the pleasure that the thought afforded
him of the softness and satisfaction a woman could
impart to life. He thought much of her, but merely
as a means to an end. He would be good to her ; he
had been harsh sometimes with the light-natured
Tessa. Let her but give him the son he desired to
carry on his name and inherit the rich estate this place
of his would one day be, and he would be wholly
satisfied. Rod, reluctantly but of necessity, he would
pass over in favor of that next true heir. His soaring
schemes ranged over the proud future: Ruvia loomed
portentous to him; it was like a miniature kingdom,
and the outer world began to fade in importance
before its imperative needs. He was perilously in
danger of losing his sense of just proportion where
the island and his exultant possession of it were con-
cerned. He who had roved the seven blue seas of
the world was now, in his own estimation at least,
an emperor planning his careful dynasty.
Characteristically, before he went in search of
Ruvia’s mistress, he cleared a hill-slope and planted it
with coconut-trees. He found
a man who could be trusted
to manage the island in his
absence and went down to
Suva to sail for Sydney.
Ruvia’s peaked hills dimming
over blue seas occasioned in
him quite a feeling of regret.
He found Madeline. 1
Madeline was simple-
hearted and thirty-one, a wist-
ful combination. She was an
ivory-pale and slender woman;
her brown hair, parted centre-
wise, was smooth like the
folded wings of a bird. Her
eyes were blue and rather
sorrowful, her mouth tender.
She lived a serene, shadowy
life in the home of her mar-
ried sister. Her shyness, the
delicate reserve of her late
maidenhood subtly pleased
James Laurence, who had
been surfeited with the buxom, bold-eyed dark
women. He felt no ardent love, no passionate
desire for Madeline, but he decided that here was
the ideal mistress for his home that was to grow in
dignity and tradition with the years. She was of a
class a little higher than his own, and this further
approved her in his eyes. He liked her shy, soft
eyes, her low and pleasing voice and the gentle grace
that went with every quiet movement. He would have
preferred her younger —but younger women were
certainly flightier and full of foolish whims.
The tragedy was that she, gentle soul, thought he
loved her. Love is quick in the hearts of some such
women ; it needs but a touch and the flamy wonder
springs into being. Madeline, thrilling with it, grew
more like a vital woman —to Laurence’s stiff yet deter-
mined wooing she gave back a devotion he did not
expect or deserve. She went back to Ruvia with him ;
and, if James Laurence saw with a poignant joy the
peaked hills lift again from the leagues of purple
waters, none the less eagerly did his wife look to
what they held for her.
She was to realise little of her sanguine hopes.
The little strange boy cried out at the sight of her
and ran to hide his head against an elderly native
woman. She was chilled a little, but she was only as
yet on the threshold of her new life. If Laurence
had been kinder then she might have faced it with
more courage, but he stood stiff as a rod and with
indifferent eyes. He was plainly in a hurry to find how
the place had fared without him. Not for her the
swift shielding of a loved bride from the sudden chill
of loneliness in an unfamiliar world.
After all, she tried. She transformed with
woman’s magic the barren place that was his home ;
she played mother to the scared little boy ; and if
Laurence had cared he might have banished the
wistful look from her blue eyes. For she realised
now that he had never loved her as she had imagined ; |
his secret heart was sealed to her. He was coldly
kind till presently, knowing that she was soon to give
him a child—the son of his desire, he was sure it
would be —he began to be absurdly solicitous for her
welfare. A bitter smile would curve then the mouth
that had been so tender —a smile as of some curious,
not unsatisfying knowledge. As if she knew.
For in the moonlit noon of a February night a
girl-babe was born, and before the dawn Madeline’s
blue eyes had closed for ever.
He felt that Fate and Madeline had cheated him.
Chapter I.
SUNLIGHT and reeded walls and the crooned
refrain of some Fijian lullaby—these were among
Ruve Laurence’s first conscious impressions. She
was a solemn-eyed, meditative babe; she lay and
blinked up at the brown face of Lavinia, her native
nurse. Sunlight intrigued her from the first; she
gurgled with sheer pleasure when the glittering
arabesques slid across her mats. She caught at them
with wavering hands.
Out of the glimmering mote-flecked haze about
her, Lavinia’s face brooded first into her conscious-
ness —a lined face with kind eyes. A flickering, uncer-
tain smile dawned at last for Lavinia, and the dark
woman clucked delight. The smile came more
certainly and often.
Laurence, beyond committing her vaguely to
Lavinia’s charge, had little to do with her. A small
native house in the compound had been set apart
for the baby’s use. The red hibiscus at the door, dark
Lavinia and her Fijian lullabies; even Roddy, who,
fair as he was, had yet a subtle look of the Islands
about him, all seemed incongruous setting to the child ?
herself. She was a very fair baby, her skin fine and
her eyes deeply blue.
An unreasonable resentment still burned .in
Laurence. All his life it was to tinge his atttiude
towards her.
He crossed one glowing afternoon to the door-
way of her nursery. 1
She had not long wakened. She lay drowsy still,
blinking amiably at the light. As babies will, she cooed
to herself. “She’s growing!” was Laurence’s thought.
A faint impulse drew him to her; he touched awk-
wardly her soft cheek. Wide blue eyes —Madeline s
eyes —looked inimically at him ; she puckered up her
face and cried. In a moment, it seemed, Lavinia
appeared; she gathered the scared morsel up in
cradling, faithful arms, the downy fair head snuggled
into the dark shoulder. Sunlight filtering through
the reeded walls flowed about them, soothing dark
woman and fair baby. Damn the woman! Was he
an ogre? The baby stopped crying, but the blue eyes
still regarded him with distrust. He was absurd!/
vexed ; he flung out and left them together. He did
not enter the house again for many days. Neverthe-


less, he took after that a curious concealed interest
in the unfolding, inimical spirit of his undesired small
daughter.
Stepping from that place of filtering light and
cool shadow with Lavinia’s crooning voice filling it,
he got a sudden sharp sense of relief. The sunlight
was intense and strong. Color and movement and
throbbing light filled the world without; high in the
buoyant air sailed dark seabirds—they and the drift-
ing clouds seemed to move with an effortless ease.
Outside the kitchen Timi, the cook-boy, was swing-
ing the axe by the woodheap ; the light ran down the
bright steel in flickers of flame. Beside him Roddy
laughed as the chips flew, and the big Fijian, pausing,
showed magnificent teeth in an answering grin.
It was good to be alive. Laurence swung the
chuckling little lad up to his shoulder and was glad
to feel how heavy he was growing. He carried him
out of the compound and across the primitive bridge
that spanned the little creek. Scarlet-roofed, the
copra-house stood beyond it, with open doors facing
the sea. Pigs rooted there in the sandy earth and
beneath the running vatas on which the copra was
turning brown in the sun.
Projects were astir in Laurence’s mind —there
he must build a wharf out across the long shal-
lows ; here, where the creek undermined its banks, a
concrete wall, and there, where the tide encroached,
another. The palm-tops swayed in the stirring wind ;
swift gulls dipped in the rising tide that was just
beginning to lift a black copra-punt that had been
left high and dry on the wave-wrinkled sand. There
was an urgency, an uplift, about the breezy after-
noon that was at once inspiring and invigorating.
Laurence, delighting in it, wondered not for the first
time how men cared to live cooped in towns.
“They’re fools, little fellow,” he told the boy, whose
fair hair was blown back and whose cheeks tingled
with health and the salty wind. “Your life will be
worth living. A man’s life in the open air.”
There rose suddenly from a Fijian at the low-
tide’s edge the long cry of “Sail-ho!”
Laurence turned in surprise. He did not yet
expect the cutter that would take his copra down
to Levuka.
With Roddy trotting beside him on sturdy bare
feet, Laurence walked as far out as he could on the
naked brown sands. He saw a white cutter, her sails
very bright in the afternoon sunlight, running up
beside the reef with the favoring wind. She was
heading straight for the Ruvia Passage, evidently with
the object of mooring in the anchorage for the night.
Laurence shaded his eyes to gaze.
“Woodley’s boat, I’ll be bound,” he said, speak-
ing his thought aloud, as men do in lonely places.
“But what the devil is she making here for? Wood-
ley’s daughter, maybe! She was to come home from
school, I remember. And her ladyship wants to look
at Ruvia, I’ll be bound. They’re all the same, women!
Curious as monkeys!”
Woodley’s cutter it was. Smoothly as a white
gull she glided through the staked passage and came
ruffling to anchor. She brought Elena Woodley into
Laurence’s life.
Elena Woodley was a slender and lovely creature
of seventeen. Velvet-dusk eyes were hers—a laughing
daring lighted them when she was in a gay or reckless
mood. Rose glowed through her smooth skin —no
darker than that of many an Italian woman ; her lips
were soft and red and a shade too sensuous. She had
an indolent air, but it seemed merely like a thin veil
glimmering over her warm and glowing womanhood.
Auckland had given her sophistication ; she was at
times very much the fashionable young lady, fresh
from her expensive school. She was delightedly aware
of the impression she had made on the lonely man,
stories of whom she had heard in Levuka. She was
accustomed to admiration, and enjoyed it. There was
little of the traditional shyness and hesitancy attri-
buted to maidenhood in Elena’s nature. She thrilled
to feel the man’s eyes linger on her. Her Southern
blood was voluptuous; and she was young and
beautiful.
Laurence, with father and daughter settled com-
fortably in long chairs on his verandah, had
his own pleasant imaginings. Elena’s eyes had
not failed to take in the possibilities of the big,
echoing house, where the evidences of Madeline’s
gentle presence still lingered. Ruvia kept Madeline
for ever now deep in a new grave, and a tablet testi-
fied that she had been the beloved wife of James
Laurence. So much was due to her dignity—and his.
Looking at the subtle, sensuous, dark girl, her dusky
hair coiled about her small head, her eyes and lips
of laughter, he forgot Madeline till a time was to
come in which he would most poignantly remember
her. But all that was as yet far in the future.
Elena’s glowing allure troubled his rest; her
slumbrous eyes and her whole sensuous tropic self
haunted his dreams.
Flying rose and saffron and silver burning to-
gether heralded the azure dawn. Woodley was for
an early setting forth, the sooner to be in his home
in Valoa. Elena, no less attractive in the revealing
dawn, imparted a pleasant domestic air to the meal
they took on the back verandah. She flirted over it
with Laurence, as little aware of the depths she was
stirring in the man as a playful kitten might have
been. She was gay and insouciant as they walked out
to the sea in the breezy morning ; she laughed at the
figure her father cut, carried out on the back of a
great Fijian to the cutter’s dinghy. Two of the crew,
their hands linked to make a chair, advanced to her,
but Laurence swung her up like a feather before they
reached her.
“How strong you are!” she laughed as his arms
cradled her close: the fragrance of her hair and
perfumed bosom assailed his senses. He set her down
in the rocking dinghy ; he held her hands closely in
his. She looked demurely down.
“I’m coming over often to Valoa—now,” he said
with meaning.
Demureness slipped from her: she looked full
at him, the red color burning in her sparkling olive
face.
“You will be welcome,’’ she said, and smiled into
his intent eyes.
“Push off!” said her father testily. “We’ve none
too much time. Laurence, I’m heartily obliged to
you. Let’s see you across some time.”
Laurence, still standing thigh-deep in green water,
saw the little dinghy rowed off. The cutter’s sail was
up, and as the dinghy drew alongside he saw the
flutter of a small, gay hand. The spell was on him.
Two selves seemed to inhabit the young Elena
Woodley: she was at times wholly the daughter of
her white father; at others the nature she drew from
her dark mother seemed to possess her entirely. Then
the island speech came more readily to her tongue ;
she slipped back into that easier, carefree world. To
the girl herself, capricious and light-natured, it
seemed that she stood joyously between the two
worlds, and in her they joined and were one. Either
was good and much to be enjoyed ; she could belong
wholly to one or the other as she pleased, or, again,
she could be a fascinating mixture of both. Naturally
in Valoa, where there were few wholly white folk, it
was easier to glide into the world in between. Yet
at Valoa she loved to queen it —to air her acquired
culture. She was amiable and deceitful, generous and
gay. Her father, who adored her, did not guess how
much the island nature prevailed in her. Her mother,
a comely native woman, still young, shrewd and
ambitious, understood and shielded her.
There was a young man in Valoa who loved her.
Dark blood ran in him, too ; he was handsome and
ardent, and the girl was by no means indifferent —
although she did not altogether wish to marry him.
But no other man, as yet, had meant as much to
her as this young Peter Harley ; her sensuous nature
responded wholly to him, and the intrigue-loving part
of her delighted in the hoodwinking of her father,
who would have promptly packed her off to Auck-
land again to avoid such a match.
James Laurence was on a different footing alto-
gether when he came to woo. He was already a
man to be reckoned with in the district: he would,
or so judged Elena’s father, be wealthy and influential
in the near future. He was delighted, and gave
ungrudging consent.
But Elena herself was capricious. She would and
she would not. In a breath she cried out that she
was too young, that she loved her liberty and would
not yet give it up, and in another maddened him with
her passionate abandon.
It was strange the feeling this slim girl lit in
him —never one of all the women who were vivid
in his memory had moved him as she did. Beneath
her small window grew great perfumed lilies, and
when he thought of her their fragrance seemed to
stir about him. Strange, too, were the images she
evoked in his mind —he thought of a frangipanni-tree,
with its snowy circle of fallen blossom on the grass,
and of oranges turning hot gold, and of
the colors in an Oriental vase. The
thought of her all his own, yielded
utterly at last, filled him with a shaken
ecstasy. Interminglingly she and Ruvia
became as one in his thoughts ; she, who
was so young and laughter-loving, would
make Ruvia an island paradise. That
she was hard to win, doubtful of he:
own longings, made her the more desir-
able.
December burned out to its hot
close —extraordinary calms dwelt on the
mirror-like purple waters; and in the
little havens of Valoa more than one
prudent man hauled up his boat or had it
in safe moorings, since it was the season of hurricane,
for all the treacherous placidity.- Fewer cutters
crawled up from Levuka; more than ever Valoa
and its clustering neighbors seemed a remote, self-
sufficing world ringed in with the blue horizons.
The hurricane months passed ; April and May
went over, and June came in with cool dawnings and
chill, green twilights. Laurence was at the end of his
patience, and the girl grew less aloof and something
of subdued stillness took her. It was like the closing
of wings that had beaten wildly for freedom. She
was afraid of him, and yet delightedly aware of her
power over him. She did not love him, but his
intense, unrelenting wooing stormed at her, stirring
the woman in her, and beat down resistance. Both
of them —her pleased father, her dark mother —urged
the match ; she was herself aware that with Laurence
she would have ease and comfort, the luxury her
indolent nature craved. But the thought of her lover
drew all her desire and her love—she would marry
Laurence, she knew, but Peter had the wild soul of
her between his hands and could do what he would
with it.
Looking back on that time, she saw herself a
girl in a world at burning heat; colors were on the
land and sea, and youth sang in her. heart. Languorous
golden days, and herself the desired of two men.
Valoa was scented with lilies then —the luxurious
abandon of them was in her blood—and there were
nights of moonlight transforming the little settlement,
with its medley of timber and broken boats and debris
along the shore. Beauty and sordid ugliness went side
by side in Valoa —perhaps beneath shadowy, light-
latticed trees you saw a Fijian in a filthy sulu, his
limbs swollen with waqaqa, or a white man, drunken,
leering at dark girls laughing at his extravagant
gestures ; you saw red hibiscus glowing by an unclean
swamp where a great sow rooted ; you saw the blue
of a kingfisher’s breast as it flashed past. All these
things were in Valoa, where Elena had been born.
She stood hesitant.
Laurence came with the red sunset of a still and
windless Saturday afternoon. His whaleboat had just
cast anchor in the shallows beyond her father’s
gate ; the rowers, big, sweating Kadavu men, were com-
ing slowly up the beach to disperse into the Fijian
town. Elena stood on the sand beneath the big dilo-
tree that grew by the road before her home. She
was in a thin white dress, the stillness clung about
her ; she seemed in it at once child and woman. She
was still, as if she knew that a momentous hour had
come for both of them. Laurence was in a dominant,
eager mood ; his eyes had changed their look of swift
yielding to her light mood to one of assured decision.
He came up on the stained sands. She did not move.
(<Continued on page 42.)
"You are not to use the name of your mistress so freely .”


FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
VVt'ifc(eiidi*sf»sf 3d. in stainii.-) for the 30 x 20
inch Lavishly illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357,
3 S
77'
RADIO
ENGINEERING
SCHOLARSHIPS
SEND FOR FULL
PARTICULARS TO
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE
Broadway, sydhey
■^ad/o/? 1
.'K OF 133 S
m
Stromberg
■Carlson
Chromo -phonic RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
RADIO NEWS
PRACTICAL SERVICE WRINKLES.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
A receiver was encountered in which
volume rose and fell at irregular inter-
vals, sometimes accompanied by clicks
, , . . ..
and bangs in the speaker. Tapping the
chassis produced clicks at will, but these
seemed independent of changes of
volume. Pressing hard on and flexing
the chassis gave the same result. Valves
were in order, and all sockets (including
rectifier! were n>ht Finallv it wat
r et her; were right. Finally it was
found that a thin, flattened-out blob’
of solder about the area of a shilling
SYMBOLS USED IN RADIO-CIRCUIT DIAGRAMS.
had, at one time or another, lodged in
one coil can, found its way down to
the bottom among the contacts and
was shorting one of these out to the
chassis. The changes in volume were
later discovered to be due to a badly-
made joint in the aerial lead-in. Solder-
ing cured this.
A bad case of speaker rattle which
failed to respond to the normal procedure
of loosening off a semi-concealed spider
was cured by also loosening off the bolts
fastening the field-coil housing to the
cradle. Recentring by the combined
movement of spider and field-coil hous-
ing completed the job.
Lack of volume in a commercial A.C.
T.R.F. set caused a good deal of work
and worry before its root cause was dis-
covered. Valves were good, speaker in
order and not burnt out. Power supply
was checked satisfactorily on all princi-
pal points. Since the set was completely
series-fed in the B supply—no voltage
divider being used—it was not thought
worth while to take direct plate and
screen readings. When, after everything
else had failed, however, the voltage on
the anode bend S.G. detector was tested,
an immediate increase in volume was
noted, the plate voltage,
allowing for meter resist-
ance and its effe c t,
appearing normal. It was
found ultimately that the
small composition - type
series resistor feeding the
screen of that valve had
risen greatly in value, with
the result that the tube
was “choking” with too
high a plate voltage in
proportion to the screen.
With the voltmeter in the
plate circuit, increased
current was drawn through
the plate-coupling resistor,
thereby reducing the effec-
tive plate voltage and
bringing it more into line
with the reduced screen
voltage. A new screen
resistor of correct value
and of generous wattage
rating cured the trouble.
When can-type fixed
condensers (or, for that
matter, any components
fitted with steel or brass
mounting lugs) have to be
fitted in awkward posi-
tions where fingers cannot
penetrate to hold the nut
on the bolt until the thread
catches, the following idea
will prove of service. Be-
fore the component is put
in place, mark and drill
the holes necessary in the
chassis. File or scrape the
lugs of the component
clean and bright, then slip
the fixing bolt through
each and tighten up the
respective nuts. Solder
the nut to the lug surface,
and when the solder has
set and cooled unscrew the
bolt. The nut will, of
course, remain behind
exactly in position over
the hole in the lug. It
will be found easy to
juggle the component
around until the lugs come
opposite the holes in the
chassis, when the bolt can
be screwed in. In addi-
tion to being easy, this
method of fastening con-
densers and similar com-
ponents gives extra
strength.
Don’t play about with
the trimmers on inter-
mediate transformers with
an uninsulated scr e w-
driver. This is asking
for trouble with burnt-out primaries. If
you can’t afford a proper lining-up tool
a handy substitute may be made by
forcing a small chip of a safety-razor
blade into the end of a wooden dowel,
lust allow enough of the blade to pro-
trude to permit adjusting the screws; no
more than one-sixteenth of an inch or
thereabouts should be necessary. Use a
long dowel, as this enables the hand to
be kept well away “from the trimmer
under adjustment.
Before commencing to “tear the
innards” out of a dual-wave or all-wave
receiver which exhibits a tendency
towards crackly operation on the short-
wave bands, take a good look round the
position in which the set is operating
and see that there are no metallic sur-
faces rubbing together while the set is
in operation. Dangling wires, odd bits
of metal and other objects of a like
nature can quite often cause strange
scraping and crackling noises in a near-
by set. Watch for them.
R. H. A.
Regeneration Control.
A novel idea for regeneration control
is described in “Radio Craft” (U.S.A.),
the advantage being that screen-grid
voltage remains constant. In a short-
wave receiver using an electron-
coupled detector, such as the Wide-
World Two, it is necessary under
some conditions to control regeneration
at a point where the available voltage
on the screen falls below that normally
required for efficient detection. The idea
illustrated is simple and worthy of the
attention of the experimenter. Between
the cathode tap and earth is connected
a potentiometer of 2000 to 5000 ohms
resistance, with the cathode connected
to the variable point. Thus the screen-
grid voltage can be set at the optimum
value, and regeneration controlled inde-
pendently.
Iron-cored Coils Available.
At long last the much-needed iron-
dust-core type of coil is being made in
Australia. By the time this appears in
print commercial receivers embodying
the feature and coil kits for home con-
struction should be available.
In the commercial field the well-
known makers of Tasma radio, Messrs.
Thom and Smith, are busy turning out
new chassis with coils based on the
German “Ferrocart” material. A sample
chassis tested by experts, to whom the
incorporation of iron cores was not
revealed, elicited wide comment on the
remarkable degree of selectivity.
In the coil-kit field R.C.S. Radio is
busy with the new Crolite “Magicore 5 '
material, of American origin, and kits in-
cluding R.F. and I.F. transformers with
variable selectivity are nearing com-
pletion. Regarding the development of
coils using modern iron-dust cores, it is
important to stress the fact that really
efficient coils can be made only by
utilising core material of correct com-
position. “Ferrocart,” “Magicore,”
“Polyiron” and “Nicore” cannot be
faulted.
Unless properly undertaken by a repu-
table manufacturer equipped with suit-
able plant, the manufacture of the core
material itself is a tricky process, as
the English radio trade learned to its
sorrow. The market was flooded with
inferior material, with the result' that
iron-cored coils suffered in popu-
larity for some time. Australia should
benefit by the lesson. Locally produced
core material should be backed by a
reputable maker, with convincing labora-
tory data as a comparative proof.
This Page has advocated the intro-
duction of iron-dust cores in this coun-
try for over two years, and with the re-
sponse of leading importers and manu-
facturers listeners and experimenters will
benefit materially.
Casual Comment.
It is rumored that the 8.8. C. low-
definition television scanning equipment
is to be presented to the Science Museum
in London. No doubt the Museum
authorities would welcome the idea, since
they are already in possession of Baird’s
historic original transmitter and receiver.
The disc system has hardly changed at
all in the last 10 years, and still has an
extensive field of use at' the transmitting
end. It is more usually known nowadays
as the “flying spot” method of scanning,
and can still more than hold its own for
close-up shots.
* * * *
“V.E.”: It was an “off” day on the
56mc. band, so I wandered into the
verbal maelstrom that once was the
“amateur 7000 kc.” band, just to see who
was at home. When an old friend called
me on the landline to ask was London
QSA, I invited him over to borrow the
short-wave converter and pass an hour
in restful inertia. Later he spun the dial
to the amateur 7000 kc. band, and we
listened to a ham’s opinion of him, de-
livered in the manner in which some
speak over the radio, each sentence
twice. Hams who think the ownership
of a ticket, an asthmatic speech amplifier
and a P.M.G. reject microphone give
them license upon the air should be
advised that the telephone landline is
more secretive.
What’s What in Radio.
Commonwealth radio licenses at the
latest counting numbered 763,598, of
which 1383 are experimental. The net
increase in licenses over the previous
return was 9348.
* * *
A new process for drawing aluminium
wire has been developed by the aid of
whilch the wire can be drawn to a
diameter of only .000lin. One pound
of the wire would reach nearly round
the earth.
The world’s largest rectifying valve,
recently demonstrated at Milwaukee
(U.S.A.), has an output of 1,000,000
watts at 25,000 volts D.C. It is capable
of rectifying enough electrical energy to
light every home in an average city of
65,000 people.
* * * *
To meet the demands of programme
development the 8.8. C. has erected new
studios at Maida Vale, London, and the
opportunity has been taken to make ex-
periments in studio design. The main
premises were originally a huge skating-
rink. The 8.8. C. has built each studio
to form an entirely separate structure
within the main building, and there is
no structural connection between the
studios, walls of which have been built
of heavy brickwork, the only steelwork
employed being that to support the ceil-
ing. No. 1 studio (the largest in Britain)
has been in use for some months, and
has a floor area of 110 ft. by 72ft. and
a volume of approximately 220,000 cubic
feet. This room is used chiefly for large
orchestras and choirs.


TEST CRICKET BALL -TO ■ BALL BROADCASTS
AUSTRALIA VERSUS SOUTH AFRICA .
THIRD TEST, JAN. 1 to JAN. 4, played at Cape Town; FOURTH TEST, FEB. 15 to FEB. 19, played at Johannesburg;
FIFTH TEST, FEB. 28 to MARCH 3, played at Durban.
SEE THAT YOUR SET IS IN ERST-CLASS ORDER-REPLACE WORN VALVES WITH
cz
xc
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD., AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart. 47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-69 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company, Limited.
“Ramblings of a Radiotron” is
the illustrated story of a Radio
valve, written in humorous verse.
It also includes items of national
interest and a complete survey of
Australian-South African Cricket
History. Write to-day for free
copy, enclosing penny stamp for
postage.
All Round the Dial.
C. Sharp ’: With a commission to buy
the best radio set, I have inspected every
make in Sydney. Cabinets are handsome,
circuits are marvellous and speakers are
neither. It cannot be denied that voices
are, and can be, altered by the same
speaker. Different speakers offer remark-
able changes. Treble notes and instru-
ments record fairly well on most
speakers ; not so tenor and bass. They
can be made to by tone and volume
controls, at the expense or loss of the
high ones, and when most instruments
are at work, as in a symphony orchestra,
there are loss, blurring and alteration,
always in favor of wood wind at the
expense of strings. Anyhow the tone of
all speakers I think too broad. Mine is
the best . available, but to listen to
good music I turn to an old one-valve
set to use headphones. Then I get clear
and perfect reproduction, with the ad-
vantage of being able to concentrate,
because extraneous noises are shut out.
Modern sets do not allow for head-
phones. That is a mistake. Deaf people
would appreciate them. If radio engineers
would lay aside their watts and volts to
study acoustics and music, there should
be a quick improvement in speakers. I
think the solution to the problem must
be in a bank of speakers, each accom-
modating and specialising in a range and
type of vibrations.
Sydney Honors E. T. Fisk.
On December 18 Sydney’s Australia
Hotel was the scene of a luncheon at-
tended by over 500 citizens to do honor
to the most outstanding figure in the his-
tory of wireless development in Aus-
tralia. Ernest T. Fisk, chairman of
A.W.A., had recently returned from one
of his overseas tours, undertaken periodi-
cally with the object of purchasing the
utmost in knowledge of wireless develop-
ment in the interests of his co. The
chair was taken by Percy Hunter, and
speakers were W. M. Hughes, Premier
Stevens, Defence Minister Parkhill and
F. Kneeshaw, M.L.C. They emphasised
E. T. Fisk (second from the left) at the luncheon.
the services rendered to Australians by
the guest of honor, who, as a young Eng-
lishman, foresaw 25 years ago the im-
portance of wireless communication as
a means of alleviating the isolation of
Australia. To-day the Beam and wire-
less telephone services are among the
means of communication operated oy
A.W.A.
In responding, Mr. Fisk dealt with the
establishment of wireless communication
in Australia, and referred to his early
efforts as a member of a small group
of experimenters, headed by Marconi.
He prophesied that the time would come
when the Southern Pacific might become
the centre of the British Empire. On
the subject of television, Mr. Fisk stated
that this was a certainty of the future,
but a considerable uncertainty of the
near future. Much depended upon the
outcome of the British experimental ser-
vice, commencing in February. When
television did arrive, it would be
entirely apart from the regular broad-
casting services as now established. The
public need have no fear, therefore, that
broadcast receivers would become obso-
lete because of television.
Amateur Chatter.
Some years ago, Capt. P. P. Eckersley
or somebody overseas stated that one of
the world’s centres of static disturbances
affecting radio is the heart of Australia.
As I write it appears to be the
whole of Australia, for during most even-
ings static has rendered anything but the
most casual listening very unpleasant,
even at 20 metres. With the change in
reception conditions, Europeans have
faded into the dim distance.
A visitor from the Solomon Islands
described the location now occupied by
Bruce Chapman, VR4BA, formerly
VK2BA. Some time ago VR4BA, with a
“pip-squeak” transmitter and 135 volts
of B battery, was able to work with
W6’s with R 5 reports. This is probably
one of those “miles per watt” records,
and is reminiscent of the early tests
between America and Australia in 1927,
when several stations on both sides got
across with such valves as 199’s as the
sole generator of R.F. VR4BA sits on
the peak of a small island, and is well
situated for low-power DX. At present
he is rebuilding his receiver, and should
be on the air again by the time this
reaches print. His most likely band for
contact with Australia is 14mc.
The writer takes this opportunity of
wishing ajl experimenters a successful
year during 1936. May all filaments stay
in one piece and may some new records
be piled up in the ultra-short-wave field!
VK2NO.
Historic Radio Memorial.
Radio achievement was celebrated in
Sydney on December 14, when a monu-
ment was unveiled at Wahroonga mark-
ing the site of the station where E. T.
Fisk, chairman of A.W.A., on September
22, 1918, received the first direct wireless
telegraphic message from Great Britain
to Australia. The monument was erected
by the Wahroonga Community Service
Club, in conjunction with the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society. A feature of
the celebrations was the broadcasting of
a speech by the Marchese Marconi, deli-
. Taro n • tj * „ i
red in Pans and transmitted through
London to Australia by wireless tele-
phone.
The unveilinn of the memorial
me unveiling or me memorial was
performed by Mr. Fisk, who stated that
E. T. Fisk and William Morris Hughes at the unveiling of the memoral
on December 14, 1935, to commemorate the first direct wireless
messages from Great Britain to Australia, which were received by Mr. Fisk
at his experimental station on September 22, 1918. The monument is erected
at the one-time home of Mr. Fisk, Lucania, Stuart and Cleveland streets,
Wahroonga, Sydney.
the ceremony was an indication that his
fellow-citizens recognised the work his
assistants and he had done as being of
benefit to the world, and especially to
Australia. He explained that in 1917
the station at Carnarvon, in Wales, was
opened by Marconi for the purpose of
communication between Great Britain
and North America. He and Marconi
had discussed the possibility of com-
munication with Australia. Scientific
men said this was impossible—just as
they had said it was impossible to com-
municate by wireless between England
and America. Mr. Fisk stated that he
had carried out experiments that lasted
for. many months, often throughout the
day and night.
W. M. Hughes said that wireless was a
miracle which had opened up a new
world far more spacious than that dis-
covered by Columbus, and that nothing
would do so much to promote inter-
national peace as that modern miracle.
Men like Marconi and Fisk, who had
done so much to perfect that wonderful
means of communication, should be
honored.
The Bulgarian State having taken
over the control of radio, the use of pri-
vate or amateur transmitting stations has
been forbidden.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Are there valves of more modern design that
will increase the efficiency of my receiver, which
is a battery model Radiola, with one DEP4 IO
Marconi, one DEL4U) Marconi, three UX222
Radioirons ? —368.
You will have to retain the 222 types, so
replace these with new ones. They can be
obtained from A.W.A. Valve Co. An improve-
ment over the other types would be Mullard
PM4DX and PM254 respectively, the latter
being the power, or output, valve.
* * * *
(1) Is the Philips type AFI R.F. pentode-
detector better than the 6C6 in the Wide-
World Two? (2) Would the E 424 be a
suitable triode with the AFI ? (3) Will 16- or
1 8-gauge wire do for the feeders in your tuned
input aerial circuit ? (4) Is it important to
have the feeders lift, long? (5) Are the coil
formers used in your unit obtainable at any
radio dealer’s or are they home-made ? —369.
(1) As the AF7 is a special high-gain valve
designed especially for short-wave and ultra-
short-wave purposes it should be a particu-
larly suitable valve. (2) and (3) Yes. (4)
71ft. was not specified. They can be almost
any length if a series and parallel tuning com-
bination is used. (5) They are small size
home-made spiderweb formers, made from
sheet insulating material about 1 / 16th in.
thickness. Such coils are not imperative, but
in the writer’s experience are somewhat better
than solenoids.
* * * *
I have on hand three Mullard valves, one
PM2DX and two PM2As, and wish to build
up a small battery receiver, using plug-in coils
for short waves. Please publish a suitable
circuit diagram. —347.
The circuit illustrated is the old but -reli-
able favorite, the Reinartz type of receiver.
The PM2DX should be used as the detector
here. With 135 volts of B battery, sufficient
audio power is available to operate a magnetic
speaker on most signals. The tuning condenser
across the grid coil is shown as ,0005mfd.,
but should be smaller (around .00015mfd.)
for short waves. With the .0005mfd. capacity
and a suitable coil, the broadcast range will
be covered, but don’t expect too much in the
way of selectivity these days. Old-time
Reinartz coils can be picked up for a few
pence at second-hand stores. Try Radio
Supply Stores, Royal Arcade, Sydney.


FOR RANDWICK TO-DAY.
New Year’s Gift: Medallist or
Prittle Prattle ; next, Loud Applause.
Flying Welter: Medallist or
Prittle Prattle; next, Heroic Faith.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Spear Prince,
1 ; Vice-Royal, 2 ; Merrie Miller, 3.
Alfred Hill Handicap: Celebrate ;
next, Bachian.
FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Gold Cup: Bulletin; next,
Flamari.
Moorefield Handicap: Cherry
King; next, Autoland.
Flying Welter: Canegrass; next,
Misnomer.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Standish: Cardinal; next,
Titanium.
Bagot: Pep ; next, Hot Shot.
Welter: Gay Mary; next, Even-
ing Mist.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Fillies have been supreme among the
two-year-olds this season—generally a
sign that the standard is not high.
Fidelity was unbeaten in Melbourne, and
Bonnie Legion has not met her match
in Sydney. Neither was raced early—
both missed the Gimcrack Stakes, won
by Spirits, another filly, who has not
trained on. Bonnie Legion (2 to 1) made
her six opponents in the A.J.C. Decem-
ber Stakes look cheap. She was fol-
lowed home by Korimako, another of
the little ladies, and by Gold Rod. Gold
Rod was the best-looking of the bunch,
but either he has gone back since he
won the Breeders’ Plate or that form
was poor. Still, the owner, A.J.C.
committeeman E. J. Watt, expects his
chestnut to do better in the autumn.
Rosehill trainer Booth has been re-
warded for his patience and perseverance
with Vice-Royal, winner of the Holiday
Handicap and Summer Cup. Vice-
Royal’s pedigree is chock-full of staying
blood. His sire, Spearhead, got the Mel-
bourne Cup winner Spearfelt; his dam,
Queen’s Cross, is a sister to Artillery-
man. Vice-Royal was bred by the late
Norman Falkiner. He finished stoutly
Bert '' Wh£,ts the >dek ?
. " 1
G»ert . Oust qwwg, vou e» aooo st^t
\M THE. HevJ VGKR, OEM?.";
in both races in which he was success-
ful—just a bit too stoutly for Mr. Kerry,
who was runner-up on each occasion,
But, with Miss Nottava out of the field.
Spear Prince might have been first in-
stead of third in the Summer Cup, for
which he was backed from twelves to
eights—Vice-Royal and Broad Arrow
were co-favorites at fives. Miss Nottava
cut at Spear Prince in front, and, though
the Queensland horse shook her off, the
effort took a bit out of him. Even so,
he hung on gamely, and defied Broad
Arrow’s efforts to deprive him of third
place.
_*..*, * . , * ,
Rogilla is going along quietly at Rand-
wick. His holiday has done him good.
The old chestnut may never return to
his best form, but he may pick up a
handicap in the autumn.
* * * *
Moonee Valley punters must have for-
gotten that before the spring meetings
Cardinal had beaten Hall Mark and
Garrio at weight-for-age, or perhaps they
considered that performance a fluke ; any-
way, they allowed Cardinal to go out at
6 to 1 (a better price was laid) for the
Three-year-old Handicap. He won in
a canter, and so impressed the V.R.C.
handicapper that 61b. was straightway
added to his Standish Handicap weight,
originally Bst. lib. The rise in the case
of Ogwell, who defeated a field rather
better in quality in the Welter Plate, was
only 31b. —to Bst. 51b. Cardinal is a
bay colt by Manfred —Clarehaven, and
is one of the best-looking of Manfred’s
sons. His sire did not exactly distin-
guish himself in his early years at the
stud, but his reputation has increased
since he transferred to Victoria, and he
may end by getting a colt as great as
himself. He has produced two very good
ones in Cardinal and The Trump.
* * * *
Voitre’s luck returned with a ven-
geance at Caulfield on Boxing Day.
There were four flat races, and Voitre
rode three winners and a second. He
began the good work by clearing out
from a big Juvenile Stakes field on
Scotch Lassie (4 to 1) —perhaps if he
hadn’t struck that streak of misfortune
he would have contrived to make the
margin less than four lengths. Then he
made a capital attempt to land Gay Star
(5 to 1) a winner in the Hopetoun Han-
dicap, but Gay Star could not quite give
the weight (301 b.) to the improving Pep
(6 to 1). -
The steeplechase having intervened —
it went to Richmond Tiger, a 12-to-l
chance, after a desperate race with My
Talisman, who used to win flat races in
Sydney—Voitre mounted The Monarch
(8 to 1) in the Malvern Handicap, and
was seen to great' advantage in a close
finish with Press Gang (4 to 1), Sunraysia
and Great Don—the last-named might
have won had he got clear a bit sooner.
In the Christmas Handicap Voitre had
a comfortable ride on Ogwell, who beat
Great Legend and Heros, another of
Holt’s favorites, and never looked like
losing. A proper succession of Christmas
boxes, and Voitre is now right back in
the boom.
Dermid has been taken to Melbourne
with Donohue’s team. He showed pretty
good form before he left, and may be
worth backing first start. He is in a
mile race at Epsom on Thursday and
in a mile and 480 yards race at Ascot
on Saturday. He can manage that dis-
tance in company that is not too select.
* * * *
Not a few Maoriland-bred horses are
bought for Westralian racing. Yaringa,
winner of the Derby, run at Perth on
Boxing Day, first saw the light in Maori-
land, and so did Dragonet, who downed
Panto at weight-for-age in the Perth
Stakes. Yaringa is by Iliad (sire of the
ill-fated Homer and of Ilium) out of
Refinement; her victory was fore-
shadowed by the style in which she
accounted for a pretty good w.f.a. field
in the W.A.T.C. Strickland Stakes on
December 7. Balkan Prince, second to
her on that occasion, was also runner-up
in the Derby, but was comfortably
beaten by the 2-to-l favorite. Dragonet
is by Limond’s son Agrion out of Society
Sue. All along he has been one of the
fancies for the Railway Stakes and the
Perth Cup (he has Bst. 1 lib. in the Stakes
and Bst. 91b. in the Cup), and his defeat
of Panto, though accomplished with diffi-
culty, brought him into increased favor
for both races.
A good third to Dragonet and Panto
with Cueesun, winner of the last two
Perth Cups and favorite for another. He
was third in the Perth Stakes last year.
* * * *
Eastern Monarch is coming into prom-
inence as a sire ; The Monarch is one
of his offspring, and so is Djedda, win-
ner of the Christmas Handicap at
Cheltenham (S.A.) on Thursday, at 10
to 1. The Port Adelaide club ran a ss.
doubles tote on the Christmas and Dav-
ington Handicaps—the Davington was
won by Popeena (14 to 1), with Scare
(10 to 1) second. Backers who coupled
Djedda and Popeena got £73 6s. 3d. for
their five bobs; those on Djedda who
named Scare as their second choice re-
ceived £36 11s. Merchants of doubles
don’t pay two divs. at Randwick, nor
do they ever lay such prices.
* * * *
Queensland Turf Club has lost its
judge, A. H. G. Drury, in uncommon
circumstances. The Trial Handicap at
Ascot was in progress, and the horses
had entered the straight. Turning to
speak to his chief, assistant-judge Wil-
liams found that he had crumpled up
and was speechless. A resourceful fel-
low, he gently moved the old man to
one side (in this he had the timekeeper’s
aid), and took his place just in time to
determine first, second and third ; then,
the numbers hoisted, he summoned a
doctor. It was no good ; within three
hours Drury was dead. An oarsman in
his youth, he had been Q.T.C. judge for
nearly 30 of his 72 years.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: For winning the Villiers
Golden Chance was raised 81b. to 7st.
121 b. in the Carrington, a pound less
than the weight alloted to Windbird.
There was 111 b. between them in the
Villiers. The 101 b. difference seems
reasonable enough ; but it is hard to un-
derstand the rehandicapping of Vice-
Royal. For his successes in the Holiday
Handicap and the Summer Cup he is
up 51b. in Tatt.’s Club Cup, going from
7st. 91b. in the Summer Cup to Bst. lib.
in to-day’s race. He is still to get weight
r , * a tt i-j
from horses he defeated in the Holiday
Handicap and the Summer Cup-21b.
from Mr. Kerry (the difference between
them was 101 b. m the Handicap and 71b.
m the Summer Cup) and 61b. from Sat-
moth (121 b. and 111 b.). He had the same
weight as Miss Nottava m the Handicap
and 21b. less in the Summer Cup, in
which the mare ran last; now he is
to give her a mere 31b.! Let us have
fixed penalties in these cases—say, 101 b,
for winning a race like the Villiers or the
Summer Cup—and then there would be
no room for arguments about rehandi-
capping.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
After the Boxing Night experiment at
the Sports Ground it would be an op-
timistic bloke who backed open-air
stoushing in Sydney. Timing itself to
start with the gong for the first of the
three events, it rained hard, cold and
miserably through all the fights, and
stopped immediately afterwards. After-
noon papers—thin ones at that—sold for
a bob each to drenched holders of seats
at £1 Is. 7d., not one in 50 of whom had
coats, including the ladies. When the
papers sold out, all the posters within
miles were brought in and got rid of at
the same figure. Under this protection
of pulp, the happy onlookers —soaked,
sober and shivering—watched the three
sets of boxers plug away through the
rain, the fighters themselves so wet that
whenever blow landed on boko it was
jets of water that spurted out. The ring
surface —sodden, slippery, treacherous —
fizzed and smoked when a huge over-
head light-globe exploded and scattered
it with fragments of hot' glass.
The scrapping was good. Carroll-—-
white body gleaming in the wet; built
like a corner fence-post; fighting per-
fectly erect —thoroughly outboxed the
brown, huge-shouldered, triangular-built,
lunging Dutchman Van Klaveren, who
had 31b. the better of the Australian’s
lOst. 81b., and looked heavier still. Van
Klaveren, whose best asset is a hay-
making right about twice as powerful as
anything in Carroll’s kit, had his right
eye badly cut early in the piece, and,
hanging on to Carroll’s .left to prevent
further damage there, merely provided
Carroll with the close-in stuff he excels
in. Carroll boxed all over him. There
was hardly an exchange, let alone a
round, that the Victorian didn’t have the
better of. But it would be a glassy jaw
that Carroll could win a fight on. He
wins by systematically chopping his
opponent into looking like a novice. His
own jaw is alleged to be pretty vulner-
able, but he has a shoulder guard that
makes it almost impossible to hit. Carroll
has probably never fought better. The
Dutchman’s side of it was mostly game-
ness. With water streaming off them,
both were fighting hard at the end of the
fine, cleanly-waged scrap.
Bishop lost his lightweight title to
Blatch. Blatch floored the not-much-of-
a champion twice in the first minute, and
later for “eight.” But Bishop is game ; he
knocked Blatch down for “nine” and
held his own until the first round ended.
Blatch won the next two rounds, and,
after upsetting his man for “six” in the
third, had Bishop so badly beaten in the
seventh that the police inspector called
a halt.
The Miller - Clements tussle was
shortened to 10 rounds. Clements, the
lighter by 4ylb.—a consideration, for the
pair are bantams —won by a fairly wide
margin.
Once more Wales stopped the con-
quering march of the All-Blacks; the
Principality won the international match
at Cardiff by 13-12, after a roaring game
before a crowd of 50,000. M.L. was
ahead by 3-0 at half-time, but in no time
the home side had raised its score to
10. The All-Blacks came back, and
with a dropped goal by Gilbert and a
converted try led 12-10 a few minutes
before time. Then Rees-Jones dashed
over in the corner just on whistle-time,
and, though there was no goal, Wales
was a point to the good: 3 tries, 2
converted, to 2 tries, 1 converted, and a
dropped goal.
The three meetings between the two
countries, all at Cardiff, have resulted in
a win for Wales 3-0 in 1905, one for
M.L. by 19-0 in 1924, and this second
victory for the Taffies.
* * * *
“G.M.”: England included Prince
Obolensky and Owen Smith in the Rugby
team to meet the All-Blacks. The prin-
ciple of including “foreigners” is wrong
—a team representing a country should
consist of natives or at least permanent
residents. There are, of course, prece-
dents for the action of the English
Rugby Union. Allen has figured in Eng-
lish elevens, and Allen was born on Belle-
vue Hill. Sambell, the stalwart of the
London R.C. eight which swept through
Australia last year, was a Victorian. All
the same, the practice is unfair.


~Heat yny6e£f
B.V.D U3t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
fOH
mm
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
• UNDERWEAR
COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
BRILLIANT FUTURE
zxc
FOR YOUNG BARRISTER
When he was admitted to the Bar this year it was
the culmination of an outstanding Scholastic career;
and authorities predict that this young man will
attain the highest honors in his profession.
Many years ago this young man’s father took out
an Assurance Policy providing a guaranteed sum
for the education of his son, and as a result of
this, the boy was enabled to have the best education
obtainable to fit him for his position in life.
Particulars of the terms of such a contract may be obtained from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Principal Office—Melbourne. C. B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary
BRANCHES IN SYDNEY,
TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON. C 242
Ins and Outs
To the Australians it must have seemed
that they had the second Test match at
Jo’burg in the bag before lunch on the
first day. The Afrikanders batted first, and
McCormick, on a fast wicket, bowled
better than he’d ever done to send the
first three back—Nourse for a duck—
with only 50 runs on the board. O’Reilly
and Grimmett did the rest. All were out
for 157 (Rowan 38 ; O’Reilly 4 for 54,
Grimmett 3 for 29, McCormick 3 for
36). Fingleton (62) and Brown (51) took
things easily, and at stumps Australia
was 11 ahead with three (McCabe 34)
wickets down.
Next day a change came over the spirit
of the tourists’ dream. Langton got
Richardson for 2 and Chipperfield before
he had scored. Darling (42, run out) and
Oldfield (40) stayed for a time, but the
total reached a mere 250: Mitchell 4
for 26 (three in one over); Langton 4
for 85. Grimmett got three good wickets
in the Springboks’ second innings, but
he troubled Mitchell (45) little and
Nourse not at all. At stumps Nourse
(98) was still there, and the score
254 for 4. Next day Nourse carried on
till he had 231 to his credit, made in
298 minutes ; total, 491. Each of the
five bowlers tried got wickets, but the
figures were dreadful. It was long odds
on Africa when Brown fell for 6, but
McCabe (59) and Fingleton (20) were
doing well when this report had to close.
H* H* H 4
Facing South Australia’s huge first-
innings score of 575 at Adelaide, the
N.S.W. Sheffield team batted valiantly to
hoist 351, Robinson again shining with
a well-made 102. Little (76) and Fallow-
field (54) also fought the good fight. The
new S.A. slow bowler, Ward, was deadly
—6 for 127. N.S.W.’s second try yielded
only 219 ; S.A. by an innings and five
runs. Fallowfield (38), Robinson (39)
and Easton (42) made some runs. Wall
(3-15) and Ryan (4-27) upset Ma’s apple-
cart this time.
Queensland also took the knock in the
game with Victoria at Melbourne, but
the Cabbage Gardeners had to be con-
tent with a first-innings win. Victoria
began with 522; the visitors scratched
up 184 (Andrews 46 ; Gregory 3 for 46,
Smith 3 for 57). Following on, Queensland
showed that the side could make runs.
Allen played a solid 100, and Andrews
came again with 58. Tallon was 33 n.o.
when stumps came along, with 5 down
for 234 (Gregory 2 for 66, Ebeling
1 for 18).
* * * *
Cricket crowds have slumped this
season, but Bradman can still pull ’em
in. Fie gave 10,000 Adelaideans a treat
when for S.A. against Queensland he
made 233 in 191 minutes —one 50 in 14
minutes. With Badcock (91) Don added
183 for the second wicket; with Walker
(71) 159—125 from his own bat—for the
third. Waite (99) and Ryan (72) helped.
Bradman closed at eight for 642. Queens-
land was dismissed for 127 (Allen 54;
Wall 3 for 13, Waite 3 for 29). S.A., by
an innings and ever so much.
The Melbourne Shield game was not
quite as one-sided. Victoria, 392 (Lee
94, Plant 76, Ebeling 50 n.o. and Rigg
51; Cooper 6 for 128); N.S.W., 295
(Mudge 59, Robinson 66 ; Smith, 4 for
73).
* * * *
The Maryleboners made a bad start
on their M.L. tour, going down to Wel-
lington by 14 runs. The wicket was
spoiled by rain, but neither side got any
advantage. Wellington scored 164 and
146 ; Marylebone 166 and 130. Given
145 to win, the tourists found the bowl-
ing of Blundell (5-50) too good, though
Sims batted valiantly for 43. Hardstaff
did not play.
The tourists showed great improve-
ment against Canterbury, scoring 364
(Barber 116, Lyttelton 80, Mitchell-Innes
50 ; Cromb 5 for 52) against 243 (Kerr
146 n. 0., Cromb 37 ; Sims 4 for 62).
* * * *
Tarrant’s team, still shorn of some of
its cracks, beat Central Provinces by an
innings and 107. Features of the Aus-
tralian innings of 351 were a century
(119) by Morrisby and 92 by Hendry.
C.P. scored 121 and 123. Oxenham
(4-41), Mair (6-88) and Leather (6-44)
cleaned up the C.P. wickets.
V
“Tenth Slip”: R. J. Massie spoke some
sound sense at a meeting of the
N.S.W.C.A. when he protested against
the growing practice of taking drinks out
to the players at brief intervals. As he
put it, the public is getting sick of these
interruptions to play. If players want
a drink there are water-taps scattered
about the ground. In earlier days, in
inter-State and international matches,
many a cricketer was content to turn one
“ ’Ow c'd y' expect 'ees Nibs t' win a fight? 'Ees father Was a belted
earl.”
of these on and take a drink lying down
from the bubbling tap.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Jim Ferrier is for
Britain at last. He will leave in Feb-
ruary for a shy at the British amateur
championship, and will later start in
the open in June for the sake of the
experience. He is easily the best golfer
Australia has produced, and if he can
master the overseas courses as he has
done the Australian he may do anything.
* * % *
“Sandringham”: Sarazen is to start
an exhibition tour of Australia at Perth
in August. He will be partnered, not by
Babe Didrikson, as originally intended,
but by Helen Hicks, American champion
in 1931 and runner-up two years later,
and now a professional. Miss Hicks is
a much better golfer than the athletic
Didrikson, and intends to compete in
the Australian open and professional
championships at Melbourne and the cen-
tenary tourney at Adelaide with the mere
men. The pair will show in Queens-
land and N.S.W. as well. As Hagen
and Kirkwood threaten to be here from
the States early next year for a tour
before going to Malaya and Japan, there
should be plenty of high-class golf on
offer in 1936.
“Sandringham”: Albert Park (Melb.)
golf club, which is one of the familiar
grafts on what was originally a muni-
cipal course, is out to knock all other
shows of the kind bandy with a club-
house costing £BOOO. It has managed to
get some extra land at the back of the
present structure, and the money is to
be borrowed from members on the usual
debenture system ; more than the amount
needed has been guaranteed. The build-
ing will be two-storeyed, of brick and
concrete, and embodying every mod. con.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: An excellent pro-
posal is being considered in Sydney—
the organisation of an annual champion-
ship for those who play only on public
links. Victoria, as usual in these mat-
ters, has got in first, and has formed a
public golf league ; the first champion-
ship was won by N. W. Yeo, who
claims to be 50 years young. There are
thousands of Sydney golfers who can-
not afford the time or money for club
golf, but would jump at the new scheme.
* * * *
“Plus Four”; Australian firms dealing
in golf goods are still trying to persuade
Joyce Wethered to visit this country for
an exhibition tour. How good the lady’s
game is still is shown by her match with
Bobby Jones, who got home 2 and 1
merely, though it was Joyce’s first round
on the course. Playing from the men’s
tees wherever she went the ex-champion
held her own with the best of the men.
The young woman’s job consists not
only in selling golf gear but in advising
and selecting fitting costumes for her
customers. Some of our big department
stores might feel interested in this end
of her activities and help the golfers
pure and simple.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: Fired no doubt by
Cochet’s success, Suzanne Lenglen has
written to Norman Brookes asking him
about the chances of a tour by her lec-
turing and demonstrating as well as
playing exhibition games. The “demon-
strations” will probably include the latest
clobber for tennis girls, the clothing end
being Suzanne’s specialty in France.
One wonders what the lady thinks to-day
of tennis shorts and scanties. It is not
so long since half the world shud-
dered to see Suzanne show her substan-
tial legs in short skirts —and paid high
prices for another look.
* * * *
“Sturt”: A departmental pinprick to
S.A. lawn tennis has been wiped out.
Tournament secretaries sell once-used
balls cheap, and sports-goods shops have
been retailing these at a trifling profit;
till the police told them a license as
“second-hand dealers” would be re-
quired. This was called in Parliament
“an absurd bureaucratic interference
with trade,” and Premier Butler promised
to put an end to it at once.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: In the trials for selection
in the Victorian athletic team for the
Australian championships in Melbourne
Howard Yates cut out the 100 in 9|sec.
As there was a strong following wind, the
achievement, in spite of the fact that
the track was heavy and sodden, cannot
be regarded as a record. Carlton was
credited with 9 2-ssec. at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) in 1931, but here again a tail-
wind queered the pitch.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian rowing heads,
being mostly Scottish, have decided to
recommend that future winners of cham-
pionship events be given paper certifi-
cates instead of gold medals. It is pointed
out that Henley-on-Yarra has substituted
cups for gold medals, and
certificates have been the
only reward of the win-
ners of the Australian
eight - oar championship
since the King’s Cup was
attached to the event.
* * *
“Bywoner”: South
African papers are dealing
it out to the Australian
bowling heads for their
failure to send a promised
team. One journal com-
ments that this is the
second time the Austra-
lians have slipped the
Afrikanders up. The
squibbing is the more re-
grettable since elaborate
arrangements had been
made to entertain the
bowlers during the tour of the Union
and Rhodesia, and a lot of money has
been spent in preparing the way. Aus-
tralian footballers and cricketers have
earned a fine reputation in the Union —
a reputation too good to be blown upon
by the inability of a lot of old gentle-
men to make up their minds.
ik * * *
“Splash”: Whether selected or not,
young Kendall, the Australian sprint
champion, will go to the Olympic Games,
but will not swim unless chosen. Papa,
who trains and looks after the lad, has
very definite ideas on how a young
athlete should be guided. The son, who
underwent an operation not long ago, is
in training, and will make his bow for
the season at the N.S.W. championships
in Sydney.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union’s new senior club is to be known
as Gordon, most of its country coming
within the area of the cricket club of
that name. The Gordon Cricket Oval is
to be the convincing ground, so the
change of name (from Roseville) is par-
ticularly fitting.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Scrooge”
“The Christmas Carol” lends itself to
effective screen treatment, and the possi-
bilities in that regard have been fully
availed of by the producers of “Scrooge,”
showing at Sydney Mayfair. Seymour
Hicks is the flinty-hearted old miser,
Donald Calthrop is Bob Cratchit. Tiny
Tim is nicely played by Philip Frost.
Oscar Asche makes an appearance as the
Spirit of Christmas Present, and another
favorite with Australian audiences,
Athene Seyler, is Scrooge’s charwoman.
The introductory scenes especially—
Scrooge’s office and house, London
under snow, a cheap chop-house, beg-
gars, waits and hungry urchins —bring
back 1843 with convincing authenticity.
Garry Marsh, as Scrooge’s nephew, and
Mary Glynne, as the nephew’s wife,
radiate amiability, a good foil to the
crustiness of Seymour Hicks’s Scrooge.
“D* Ye Ken John Peel?”
Also at the Mayfair. Period, the first
decade of last century. British officers
who fought at Waterloo. Huntsmen,
highwaymen, parties at which the harpsi-
chord and harp are heard and the minuet
is danced. Main characters are Major
John Peel (John Garrick); Mr. Craven,
alias Sir Henry Hawkesly, a cardsharper
and bigamist (Leslie Perrins); a lady
forced to marry him to save the ancestral
manor (Winifred Shotter), and a comic
manservant (Stanley Holloway). Some
of the photography is poor, but action
is brisk, and the romance is well-dressed
and well-acted.
“Navy Wife”
Allegedly based on Kathleen Norris’s
Beauty’s Daughter, though neither the
authoress nor the readers of her quietly
domestic stories, essentially English in
atmosphere, would find it easy to recog-
nise the source of inspiration. In the
Hollywood version the young widower
who marries again is a medical officer
in the U.S. Navy (Ralph Bellamy). He
is stationed at Honolulu. His second
wife (Claire Trevor), nurse in a naval
hospital, takes her little paralysed step-
daughter back to the U.S.A. for treat-
ment. The rest of the story seems to
have been rewritten by Oppenheim.
During wife’s absence hubby gets
tangled in the toils of a beautiful adven-
turess, learning which on her return
wife laughs hollowly, gets drunk and
endeavors to flirt with one of hubby’s
colleagues. Hubby is shot by adven-
turess, who is a dangerous international
spy, just as he has accumulated the last
scrap of evidence of her villainy. He
recovers, and all ends happily. Patches
of humor, mostly supplied by Warren
Hymer as a gob with a faculty for get-
ting his limbs broken and by Ben Lyons
as a sportive young naval doctor, enliven
proceedings, which have a tendency to
drag. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Rainmakers”
At Sydney Capitol. Wheeler and Wool-
sey in an orgy of slapstick, interspersed
with a few original wisecracks. A consid-
erable proportion of the picture is devoted
to an uproarious ride, cleverly faked, on
two runaway locomotives carrying dyna-
mite. Woolsey smokes his cigar whilst
tearing around bends at 60 m.p.h.
Wheeler just looks frightened. Dorothy
Lee, back again with her comic pals,
looks scrumptious, but a bandsaw is
euphonious compared with her speaking
voice.
“Escape Me Never”
On Christmas Eve Sydney Liberty
came to the end of its second change of
programme in 12 months. “One Night
of Love” ran for nine months; “Escape
Me Never” for three months. The first
film depended for its popularity upon a
glorious voice, faultlessly recorded. The
second enshrined a new and tremen-
dously appealing actress in an intelligently-
written and capably-directed play well
suited to her powers. “Escape Me
Never” is one of the very few screen
productions the memory of which is not
likely to be overlaid by the ever-rushing
stream of newly-manufactured celluloid
entertainment. The character of Gemma
Jones as portrayed by Bergner is in all
respects alive. Her weaknesses, her in-
consistencies, her many moods, from
deadly stillness to frantic rage, go to
make up a picture faultlessly painted.
The support is good, too. Hugh Sinclair
“ Righto , Skin—straight fer ’is armpit.”
as the selfish (but not heartless)
Sebastian, Griffith Jones as the estimable
(but not very intelligent) Caryl, and
Penelope Dudley-Ward as Fenella are
well cast —and casting is the rock on
which nine out of ten British films used
to founder. The ending of the story does
not suit all tastes, but there is no reason
inherent in the plot or the characters
why it should be different. It is incon-
clusve, but life’s like that, and Bergner’s
like life.
“The March of Time”
The American magazine “Time”
sponsors this attempt to elucidate foreign
politics and international affairs per
newsreel. First instalment, at Sydney
Liberty, deals with the great popularity
of Abyssinians in Japan, illustrates recent
developments in various parts of Soviet
Russia, and runs through the series of
events in France, commencing with a
railway disaster and followed by the ex-
posure of the Stravinsky swindles, which
led to civil disorder and the formation of
the Croix de Feu (Fascist) organisation.
A great' deal of very interesting infor-
mation is packed into small compass, and
the material is very capably edited.
“The Good Fairy”
Molnar’s comedy does not provide
generically good screen material; it de-
pends almost entirely on dialogue. This,
however, has been Americanised without
much damage to its whimsicality.
Molnar’s characters never lived; they
belong to the same dimension as the
people in comic opera. Herbert Marshall,
Frank Morgan, Margaret Sullavan and
Reginald Owen enter into the fantastic
affair in what seems to be a sort of holi-
day spirt, and between them they
manage to assay an average of two
chuckles to the minute for an hour and
a half. At Sydney Liberty.
“Squibbs”
A comedy of London life, at Melb.
Athenaeum, with a novelettish plot,
brightly acted and sprinkled with songs
which intrude without reason. Squibbs
is a flower-girl of Piccadilly Circus,
daughter of a waster on the fringe of
the underworld’s and beloved of a vir-
tuous policeman. Betty Balfour, looking
nice and surprisingly young, makes a
sympathetic heroine, and Stanley Hollo-
way measures up to the physical stan-
dards required of the British cop. Both
do their stuff well, but Gordon Harker
is the outstanding figure. As a crook
trying to behave like an English gentle-
man, he is at his top.
“Starlit Days at the Lido”
This M.-G.-M. musical revue in color
is the titbit of several minor features at
Sydney St. James. Most of the impor-
tant talkie stars are on parade, with
Reginald Denny as M.C. Beauties in
all sort's of weird costumes abound, giv-
ing weight to the contention that Holly-
wood possesses more pulchritude to the
square yard than any other place on
earth.
Some First Nights
“Yes, Madam?” the new musical
comedy at Melbourne His Majesty’s, is
a bright show containing many tunes
that have already been made familiar
through the radio and a succession of
graceful and picturesque ballets. But it
runs close to being the most clumsily-
constructed play of its sort in memory.
People are got off and on the stage on
the most primitive excuses, songs are
dragged in by the scruff of the neck and
ballets are thrown in at regular intervals
without much reference to the story.
There are only a few smart lines of
dialogue, and the fact that the play goes
as well as it does is a tribute to actors,
producer, orchestra and ballet mistress.
Diana du Cane, the newly-imported lead-
ing lady, is a pretty girl with a nice voice
and manners, but she is deficient in the
indefinable quality which can make a
musical comedy star out of an ugly
woman who can’t sing. The comic busi-
ness, not all written in the book, is in
safe hands. Gus Bluett is delightful as
a sort of Wodehouse hero who has to
become a valet to inherit a fortune. Leo
Fianklyn is a button magnate who is
devoting his millions and his declining
years to comforting strange ladies and
dodging his masterful sister, capably
played by Ethel Morrison. Cecil Kella-
way has little to do as an aristocratic
drunk, but that little is well done, and
Marie le Varre scores as a vulgar lady
who holds incriminating letters from the
opulent button-maker. The scenery is
a strong feature, and the ballets are so
good that the designer, Nina Starace,
deserves a line to herself.
Sydney Philharmonic Society had its
“first night” with Handel’s greatest ora-
torio on Christmas Day 50 years ago.
Henri Kowalski, composer of bravura
pianoforte pieces that are still remem-
bered, waved the baton, and a young
singer, Mrs. Nellie Armstrong, who had
been heard in Sydney only a few times
before, won praise for her singing of the
soprano arias, but was severely criticised
for her version of the recitatives. She
was apparently the first soloist within
the memory of her critics who had sung
those passages as Handel wrote them.
The golden-jubilee performance of
“Messiah” at the Town Hall on Christ-
mas night, 1935, was probably a very
much better one all round than the
society’s initial effort, though it had no
Melba to give it historical fame. Howard
Carr, who conducted, is a very sound
Handelian interpreter; the choir, though
not the biggest the society has mobilised
for the occasion, was well-drilled, the
orchestra was at a higher standard than
in any recent year, and the organ, the
grandest in the Southern Hemisphere,
played by Bennett North, provided a
splendid background for the tremendous
choral outpourings. Among the soloists
the basso, Stanley Clarkson, came near-
est the ideal.
Best features of the panto. “Cinderella”
at Sydney New Tiv. are Cinderella
(Isabelle Mahon, with long, golden curls;
later in powder and patches), the coach,
the ballets of girls, big and little, and
Angus Watson’s umbrella, which is on
the stage throughout the proceedings.
Mephistopheles and Dracula attempt to
elope with the brolly, but Watson,
warned by every kid in a crowded after-
noon audience, circumvents their knavish
tricks. The comedian is Cinderella’s
faithful servitor Buttons, and his vigor-
ous antics and extraordinary voice in-
fuse fun into the old fairy-tale. Cinder-
ella is married off to the principal boy
(Doreen May) at' the end of the first act,


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TJ!
c ?Ae NEW POWER In
■ PICTURE
IHDUSTRY
PIGTOIE
v f r->
V
aSwjE
*
'
*
m
\?e<> K
. ‘
WjJcfe
H
'■ j|' w '", s * * >
•* * »• »*•:•:•:¥•¥•:
■ W * ..
is*®'
>¥:¥
S*?
■
M M•-.•---
i
>7,1»
ill
The New Singing
Sensation of the Screen.
m
y/0.
m
m
m
mm
■j
K\
i i
m
Vi
tMfmrffltio7o£iftn[wr£i T j/./M>
UIORLD STAIIDARD PRODUCTIONS
and the second half is vaudeville com-
piled with an eye to juvenile tastes.
Tracy and Vinette, the Lassiter Brothers.
Harry Marconi with his accordion and
Keith Barry, the boy soprano—the voice is
almost contralto in lower register—figure
in various effective settings. Applause,
on the afternoon The Bulletin dropped
in, was practically continuous and
usually deafening.
Wattle Path at St. Kilda has been
transformed into a very creditable repro-
duction of a street in Paris. Not only
have the walls been converted into
replicas of famous facades, but the sur-
roundings are in keeping. The dancing
area is surrounded by a green strip indi-
cating turf, on which are little tables with
a colored umbrella over each. A variant
of roulette, making it a “game of skill” to
conform with the law, is provided to give
a casino atmosphere. Orchestral items
alternate with contributions from singers
who give imitations of Parisian cabaret
performers. The Frenchiness generally
is accentuated by the issue of “francs,”
price 3d. each, to visitors to spend in
dancing, refreshment or the dozen other
forms of entertainment provided.
*
A strange drama is “Fulfilment,” by
Heather Gell, of Adelaide, at the local
Tivoli. The authoress got the germ-idea
from “The Road to Emmaus,” seen in
England, but has elaborated it with
heavy use of Beethoven’s Ninth Sym-
phony and music by Ravel and Saint-
Saens. It varies from symbolic mimin'*
(from the Garden of Eden to the
Nativity) to crowd-with-ballet—Pharaoh’s
Court, Elijah and the priests of Baal—
and rough humor in Noah and his animal
Landscape near Gloucester,” by Will Ashton, at the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
pets. It' is finely planned, and went over
well, with the help of a few experienced
players and a host of helpers.
Current Artbursts
When the indigent Opie shaved a cat
to provide himself with paintbrushes,
he had little on C. W. Bayliss, winner of
Vic. National Gallery travelling scholar-
ship. Like Hanke in Sydney, Bayliss is
a fine example of self-help. He has
been a student only 18 months; most of
the previous winners of the prize could
look back to at least four years. Bayliss
hadn’t even money to buy a razor, and
let his beard grow. He made his dinners
off penny pies, and the address he gave
was “Somewhere in Footscray.” His
prize-winning canvas has as central figure
a life-size draped figure. As he could
not afford to pay a model, one of the
girl students of the Gallery—herself
winner of a minor prize this year—posed
out of sheer goodfellowship. The paint-
ing is good—excellent, in fact —but the
drawing hurts the spectator by the hard,
almost wooden, lines in parts. This
defect is strange, for it is shown in none
pf Bayliss s other paintings and draw-
mgs. There are altogether nine large
canvases in the students’ exhibition, and
the most popular will probably be placed
Second—“ The Gipsies,” by H. Matthews.
Among the students who contribute to
this creditable show are three second-
generation painters—O. Hall, son of the
late Barney; Joan Mclnnes, daughter of
the present acting director, and J. J.
Hennessy.
Bayliss’s scholarship consists of £450
spread over three years, and under its
terms he is required to send a copy of
an Old Master each year and one original
painting at the end of the period. The
grant has not been increased since
Longstaff won it' in the late ’eighties,
though the cost of living everywhere has
doubled. When Bayliss has to pay fares
to and from Europe, cost of mainten-
ance in Paris and atelier fees, he may
long for the swag and the billy he was
carrying somewhere about Victoria when
the result of the competition was
announced.
4- 4* 4-
Australia will now have a chance of
studying the late D. H. Lawrence as a
painter—which London has not, seeing
that his show of pictures there was
banned by the police. Melbourne Public
Library has purchased for £l2 12s.
the only copy in Australia of reproduc-
tions of Lawrence’s pictures. The de-
cision was not arrived at without ques-
tion, Prof. Wood-Jones objecting, “not
because the pictures are pornographic,
but because they are ‘beastly’ crude,”
and Dr. J. F. Mackeddie observing that
the volume of prints is a “nasty book.”
4* 4*
Grasspan”: The Rembrandt which
cost £21,000 has been hung in Vic.
National Gallery. It would not bring
two pounds ten in the open market
were it painted by an unknown man. The
story is that Rembrandt turned out this
work when he was 22; but there is
a deep gulf between the new picture and
the self-portrait—
which stands a few
feet away—painted
at the close of
Rem brandt’s
career. The two
pictures hang on
either side of the
huge Tiepolo,
which is a bit
reminiscent of the
technique of the
signpainters who
turn out the drop
scenes for
mechanics’ insti-
tutes in country
towns.
'l*
“H o g s h a i r”:
“F.S.” (Bulletin
20/11/ ’35), writing
about the proposed
permanent night
opening of the Mel-
bourne National
Gallery, says the
question has been
raised whether it is fair to the painter who
has painted his picture “by sunlight, lamp-
light, moonlight or any other sort of
illuminant to let his work be seen under
artificial light.” Just as fair to him as
when on dull, grey days the lights are
switched on, and not one whit the less
dreadful than when dealers turn on the
lights for a prospective buyer. The
switching on of lights is no seldom hap-
pening, seeing that art shows blossom
most numerously during winter.
No, nobody notices anything wrong
with pictures under artificial light—save
when the daub is muddy and dirty in
color. Good, clean paint stands the
test; if a picture is a good job, it stays
put in any reasonable lighting. I test
most of my pictures by viewing ’em in
the electric light. If they still look fresh
and the blues do not degenerate into
dirty greys I pass the result as O.K. for
somebody’s wall where it will be seen
mostly at night. If a picture looks grey
and gloomy I lay some purer color on it.
As “F.S.” says, pictures are painted
with the co-operation of the State Elec-
tricity Commission—but not the majority.
Colin Colahan can do a jolly fine por-
trait under a night-light, and it needs no
special lighting when exhibited. Good,
clean paint, freshly applied, whether put
on by moonlight, starlight, lamplight,
candlelight, daylight, sunlight or firelight,
looks all right under any other sort of
light if the job is sound.


THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
U II I I E U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United’' is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
Sain*
Js<^
GERHARD
The customer is always right when he gives a clean
acceptance receipt for cased goods wire-seal strapped
for safe, transport with GERRARD.
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
Melbourne. Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide. Hobart
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: _ .
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS: . „ . .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. _ (Vice-Chairman),
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: j. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET ■)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Another Year
The year just closed was the first one
in which Australians began to look upon
the depression as a thing of the past.
Unemployment, agricultural troubles,
financial-emergency legislation, unbal-
anced Budgets—all these things we still
have, and a good many more just as un-
pleasant ; but the uncertainty, the gloom
and the desperation of 1931-33 are now
almost entirely dissipated.
Of the happenings in 1935, some were
very noticeable and understandable,
while others were beyond the full appre-
hension of many people. It' is a compli-
cated world these days—even if the
Douglas Credit operations in Alberta are
left out. Some of us still don’t know
why the gold-share bubble of 1934 col-
lapsed early in 1935. The average
person looks on the present high price
of gold with suspicion ; but if it' stays
long enough around £7 (stg.) an ounce
he will be startled if it makes a big
move one way or the other.
Paper money, credit, restrictions and
regulations—the world at present bows
down to its professors and financiers. In
some parts people are getting a little stiff
in the back.
Events since 1930 must be compared
according to new standards. The £
sterling is no longer a golden sovereign ;
the £ Australian is no longer equal to the
£ sterling. The United States dollar is no
longer a gold coin; it does not even
represent the gold dollar of 1930. Gov-
ernment' borrowings are looked on more
and more as interminable annuities, the
holder receiving the right to his interest
each year, but his capital back on a
specified date only if the Government’s
credit is sufficiently good to borrow the
means from someone else. Sinking-
funds as a practical measure have be-
come the dream of idealists. The national
debt in Australia and the U.S.A. con-
tinues to notch new high levels each
year. America is mentioned because,
after a long period of comparative ab-
stinence as regards borrowings, it is now
the world’s leading example of a borrow-
ing and spending Government economy.
Freetrade in the world to-day is
nothing more than a theory. Protection
in many countries has ceased to be a
normal measure; in distraught Europe
trade treaties and embargoes are in-
numerable, the result of desperate finan-
cial and employment problems. Countries
whose currencies are depreciating now
have it all over those which watered
and stabilised after the war. Germany,
France and Italy find trade stagnant;
Japan, Britain and America are having
their stimulant now. And with costs
and price-levels still slow to rise (vastly
different from 1920-25) the “kick” is
lasting much longer.
In Australia, the general price level
has shown a lift during the year. That
is partly because of better returns for
wool and wheat. The non-rural aver-
age (which excludes highly-manufactured
goods) for Sydney during November was
166 in the index (1911 = 100), the same
as this time last year. For two years the
variation has not been more than a point
above or below that figure. In 1929
the average was 184; since. then our
currency has depreciated more than 50
p.c. in terms of gold.
Despite Government borrowings, then,
to date there has been little inflation in
our prices. The still-substantial unem-
ployment roll probably has its effect. But
people are buying better-class goods.
New motor-car registrations touch fresh
records each month, building is going
ahead again, picture-shows, hotels and
retailers are making more money, whilst
key secondary industries are showing
large increases in output. Broken Hill
Prop.’s activity for more than 12 months
has eclipsed all previous figures.
The Commonwealth enters 1936 with
a feeling of confidence, overshadowed
somewhat by a fear absent for 17 years
—the possibility of a world war. It is
hoped—and believed by many—that the
lesson of the last flare-up has not been
entirely forgotten by noisy European
countries. The trouble is that some of
them are in a desperate social and finan-
cial position. Australia has felt the effect
of their shrunken purchasing power.
Both wool and wheat have a much
firmer market for the beginning of the
new year. Lead and spelter (despite a
pronounced weakening towards the end
of 1935) are a lot stronger than 12
months earlier; copper is also up.
Butter in London is still at a high level
for this time of the year.
So far as those who do the real work
in Australia are concerned, comparative
“Jewellery further along the counter, please !”
prosperity appears to be ahead. A lot
will depend, as always, on the handling
of public funds and the course of our
overseas trade position. At present we
are drawing on reserves to pay external
interest.
Mount Morgan ss. shares sold at 395.
before the Stock Exchanges closed. The
scrip is to be subdivided into 2s. 6d.
denominations (this will be the second
splitting-up ; for each £1 share four of
ss. were handed out a couple of years
ago). Head value of ore treated for the
term to June 30 last was s.Bdwt. gold
and 0.54 p.c. copper. Recovery of the
mineral content was only 65.77 p.c. of
the gold and 87.83 p.c. of the copper.
The losses of gold should be partly over-
come when the co.’s new low-grade treat-
ment plant gets into operation on
oxidised material; at present oxides are
being treated by sulphide processes.
Shareholders are being asked for £50,000
new share capital to finance the plant
additions, at a premium of 15s. per ss.
share (it will bring in £200,000 alto-
gether) ; this issue will make paid capital
£282,000 in 1,128,000 shares of ss. At
395. (cum rights) the market values the
show at approximately £2,200,000.
There is ten times that much mineral
value in sight with metals at present
prices, and more should be proved. The
crux of the position, though (more
especially as it is a low-grade show), will
be costs and recoverable values. Profits
at present are around 11s. per ton of ore
treated. Shareholders will expect some-
thing better when the new plant gets
going.
* * * *
People who have bought Lancefield,
Triton and most Golden Mile shows
during the past few months should feel
that the new year holds every reason-
able prospect of being happy, though
without fireworks. Especially while Fiji
was attracting Melbourne’s attention,
Westralia’s low-grade shows were rather
despised. Among the smaller fry in the
West, Edjudina, N.L., on published re-
ports seems to have prospects of turn-
ing something into shareholders’ pockets.
There has been plant trouble, but the
ore (sdwt. average, and apparently a lot
of it) can be mined by opencut, and is
said to be free-milling. All-in costs are
put at 16s. a ton.
For the three weeks ended Dec. 21,
the Emperor (Fiji) crushed 530 tons for
4710 z. of bullion, yielding 3830 z, fine
gold. Including 2dwt. per ton lost in
the tailings, average values were about
16.4dwf., with recoveries of 14.4dwt, as
against 15.2dwt. and 19.2dwt. in the two
preceding crushings. During the last 11
weeks 13260 z. of fine gold has been re-
covered, worth about £11,602 (Aust.).
The monthly crushing of 2000 tons (ex-
pected to be reached before the end of
1935) has yet to be realised ; there have
been labor and other troubles in Fiji
which have upset mining cos.’ plans. It
will be interesting to see how far
Emperor’s present capital (less than
£150,000 was left after vendors’ consid-
eration and preliminary exes, had been
paid) carries the show towards the pro-
jected 20,000-tons-a-month throughput
—always assuming that developments
warrant such a plant. Mining machin-
ery is costly, and development of a
brand-new property will run off with
cash also.
* * * *
The Sydney share-price index for
November was higher than for any other
month of 1935 except August, and only
a little below the boom month of April,
1929. The December figure (when com-
puted) should show a further rise.
Greatest recent increases have been in
manufacturing and distributing cos.; to
this type of investment attention has
been repeatedly drawn on this page dur-
ing the past twelve months, especially
when the first war scare came along.
Most of the £4,000,000-odd taken from
the public by new share issues over the
past three months has been in respect
of manufacturing cos. Australian
economy demands expansion along these
lines. The worst service politicians could
do to Australian industrial welfare would
be to revive overseas borrowing. With
imports on the present scale we are hav-
ing trouble enough to pay our way out
of current exports.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A.’s one native and pet
bank, the Adelaide, has failed to get
Parliamentary powers to act as an
executor and trustee co. Since the first
S.A. co. of that kind was- formed, three
big pastoral houses have followed suit
—Elder’s, Bagot’s and the Farmers’
Union. The bank’s Enabling Bill got
through by 17 to 14, but was cut to bits
in committee, and dropped. The main
argument against it was the absence of
precedent with banks in other States.
But in Maoriland some of the big in-
surance cos. conduct a trustee branch.
* * * *
N. S. Wales property dealings for
November were the best for the year
at £2,475,000. For the 11 months
they totalled. £24,015,000, as against
£21,465,000 in the same period of 1934.
Mortgage business was slightly greater
also, and at a cheaper rate of interest.
* * * *
The secretary of the Melbourne Egg
Producers’ Association, reporting the
end of the season, said the other day
that it had been disastrous to many ex-
porters and producers:
Unfortunately, inferior-quality eggs had
again reached England from several States.
This was serious, and called for a drastic,
inspection system to rehabilitate Aus-
tralia’s good reputation in England.... Re-
jections by the Government inspectors of
eggs submitted for export were appalling.
But they are not so appalling as the loss of
trade. During July 1-Dec. 14, export
was 20 p.c., or 4,000,000 dozen, less than
for the same period last year. Every
State exporting on a large scale, except
Queensland —in which there was a small
increase—showed a substantial decline.
* * * *
At the meeting of Spencer’s Pictures
last week shareholders were told that on
June 30, 1935, the operating cos. (the
Greater Union ramifications) had an un-
distributed profit of £63,243, which had
been added to, “and within a reason-
able time a dividend might be expected.”
To pay an average of 5 p.c. on the hold-
ing cos.’ capitals the operating cos. need
to pass on about £58,000 p.a. The
organisation is reported to be in a much
more prosperous condition. To those
who. desire to buy an interest in the film
business, and are not interested in the
miscellaneous assets which some of the
cos. possess, Spencer’s and West’s scrip
is the cheapest buying. For each £1
of its own capital Spencer’s holds a pro-
portionate interest of 90 in the combine,
as against 97 in the case of West’s, 82
Greater J. D. Williams and 80 Amal-
gamated. Those figures are comparative
indexes. West’s holds the largest pro-
portionate interest per share, but its
scrip (it holds 2s. 4d. in Consols and
2s. Bd., book value, in freeholds) is at
10s. 6d., as against 7s. Bd. for Spencer’s,
7s. 7d. for Greater J. D. Williams, and
Bs. 3d. for Amalgamated.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 47» Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian , Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
. c ‘ •
INGOT Riding Breeches and Jodphurs are
right in style, right in cut, right in quality,
moderate in price. Into every stitch, seam
and curve goes the experience that comes from
a lifetime of outfitting the equestrienne.
These hard-wearing garments will keep their
shape and color after repeated washings.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
Wn ”'J
r »7VJL
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Where has depression gone? It
couldn’t be found in Sydney this Christ-
mas season. Shops are smiling over
record takings, and the slaughter in the
barnyards amounted to a scandal. On
Christmas Eve the hardest thing in
Sydney to catch was a taxi. Ladies wait-
ing at the kerb haggled over precedence.
Men hopped in ahead of the girls, who
had as often as not done the signalling ;
and while occupants were slithering out
the left-hand door enterprising ones
were crawling through the right. Still
everyone was good-humored, and the
city seemed one big smile. Everybody
danced. If you weren’t at the Australia
you were at Romano’s or Elizabeth Bay
House, or you were giving your friends
a party, or they were doing it to you.
In the Australia three men were working
like navvies handing out parcels, most
of them Christmas gifts that had been
left to be called for. City hospitals were
massed with flowers. All day long the
florists’ boxes had been arriving—flowers
for the patients, flowers for their devoted
nurses. At nine o’clock in the evening
the vestibule of St. Vincent’s was almost
entirely covered with flower baskets and
such. One regal basket, fit for a Lily
Pons, fit for a queen, bore a card in-
scribed “For Mother Patrick.”
Mary Morgan O’Neill and “Ro” Gar-
trell celebrated their engagement with a
tea dance at the Manhattan. More than
120 guests, all old family friends, helped
them drain the bumper of fun, as well
as the gold-topped bottles that peeped
between every two bowls of roses on the
tea table. Mary’s flower-patterned frock
wore its neck ruffled with a muslin-and-
lace jabot, and her black hat was small,
saucy and worn slantwise. Mr. and Mrs.
O’Neill and sister Kathleen helped to
welcome at the foot of a stairway
flanked with a young forest of gladioli.
James Munro’s (to give the ’groom-to-be
his full name) father and mother were
importants in an afternoon that bristled
with well-known legal, medical and pro-
fessional names.
Solicitor J. J. Mulligan, just back from
Russia, was struck by the seemingly en-
tire absence of paint, silk stockings and
good roads in the country of Stalin.
None of the buildings seems to have had
a lick of color since the Czarist regime.
The only silk-clad ankles in his radius
were worn by women tourists, though
fur coats are as desired of the Soviet
sisterhood as of any other daughter ot
Eve. One girl who acted as a guide (she
had the job because she spoke four or
five languages) told him with a sort of
naive joyousness: “In the bank I have
a hundred roubles. When I have saved
more I shall buy a fur coat.” Millinery
seems to be at a low ebb ; and the Sydney
man never once heard it cited as a cause
for divorce. Women’s hats are for the
most part a sort of cap, and the foot-
wear is strong and clumsy.
Getting divorced isn’t so easy a
matter. A whole year of marriage with
each choice is insisted on: and after
you’ve changed your husband three
times the official feeling is that you’re
a bit hard to please. Moscow is the
centre of activity (Leningrad is as un-
ruffled by the common round as Can-
berra), and here, in addition to the gold-
towered Kremlin, there’s a subway that
is claimed to be one of the world’s best.
Shops keep open the clock round ; so
do the factories. At two o’clock in the
morning the shops are as busy as at two
in the afternoon, because the commu-
nity’s working day is divided into three
shifts. Eagerness for knowledge' is the
driving force of the young. One girl, a
worker on a collective farm, came to the
rescue of the Sydney group one night in
Moscow, and put them on the right way
to their hotel. She had taught herself
to speak English in the intervals of her
labors. The people are courteous and
friendly. On a train journey the
traveller can for a few pence hire ear-
phones and enjoy a radio programme.
Maorilanders find the show in the
Bridge pylon an irresistible lure. Here
are all the Crown jewels, exactly as you
can see them at the Tower of London,
only there the crowd of avid gazers is
always so much greater. To the un-
initiated eye the gems have the same
voltage, and, if the sensitive soul of the
man from Hatton Gardens would shud-
der to regard anything but the genuine
carats, the average citizen doesn’t know
his onions so well. The camera obscura
is another charm, and this Letter has
been informed of ladies of eighty-two
(from Maoriland) who skipped up the
stairs to these delights, and loudly ac-
claimed them worth the effort.
Red and yellow, blue, green, black and
striped humans littered the sands of
Bondi on Boxing Day. Men and girls
with backs like Red Indians’ proudly
bared them for sun and breeze to polish
up the bronze. Here and there tents and
umbrellas of bright awning sheltered the
gay. The rubber suit that was so talked
of doesn’t seem to have made universal
appeal, and, in fact, was more absent
than present; but this Letter had two
neighbors in those lovely elastic bathing
suits —both of black satin surface, the
owners emerging shiny as seals. They
were backless, and had a tie on
the shoulder. They make a bad figure
look not so bad, and a good one look
marvellous. The pine-decorated half-
moon of Coogee was as animated as
Bondi. To the visitor these Pacific
islanders must have seemed amphibians.
At both beaches were seen the sarong
skirt and pleated silk shorts.
The rich notes of Ruth Pearce-Jones
have been heard at the Rose Bay Music
Club, the Royal Empire Society, the
Forum and almost every city club. Radio
listeners claim her as an established
friend. Backing Ruth’s voice is the
sound musicianly training she had from
her relative, the well-known Lottie
Hyam. Picture from Ross Studios.
Wig-making is an industry that is
growing in Sydney. Blonde Elaine Ham-
mill, being a brunette in “Thorough-
bred,” wears a raven wig entirely made
here. On a recent afternoon Elaine was
trailing the shiniest of white satin frocks
about the lot. She looked slinky and
sophisticated in contrast to Helen
Twelvetrees (the little heroine), who was
all baby stare and artlessness in a bronze
frock star-flecked and with butterfly
shoulder sleeves. There was a party
unleashed in the home of squattocracy
of which Helen is an adopted daughter,
and neighbors and friends brought their
sheet music. A girl in black velvet sang
“Thora” in a reedy voice, and then a
tall girl with a look of Zasu Pitts put in
a nice bit of comedy with some near-
operatic warblings, while the camera-
men, in a sort of cold-storage frenzy,
took distance, middle - distance and
close-up shots. Ken Hall and George
Parker hovered about the camera;
at the back stood Miss Twelve-
trees’s mother and husband, intently
watching the scene. Script girls and
make-up girl Dorothy Dunckley were
caught in the petrified silence of the
studio. The only unperturbed ones were
the men who wore black ties with their
dress clothes. They, it was explained,
were the bandsmen engaged to play at
the grand party.
While the rest of her family is intent
on composing, making and diffusing
musical sounds, Guenda Bainton quietly
concentrates on color-harmony. Guenda
is the pictorial artist of the family.
Theatrical effect and design have her
attention, and the director of Sydney’s
Conservatorium must have been pleased
with his daughter’s stage decorations for
“Shamus O’Brien.” Photograph from
Raymond Sawyer.
Sydney’s Mayoress during 1936 will
be the wife of Alderman George Parkes.
Mrs. Parkes will be civic hostess at the
invitation of the city’s new Mayor,
Alderman Howie. The Mayoress is a
resident of Mosman, is fond of golf and
gardening, is a worker for the Red Cross
and for Twilight House.
Like all the rest of Sydney this Letter
was at the first night of “The Mikado,”
and couldn’t help wondering if Ivan Men-
zies and Bernard Manning had been
spending frustrated days trying to do
Christmas shopping. When Bernard
Manning sang about making the punish-
ment fit the crime, could he have been
thinking of the ladies who rustle up to
the counter where you are buying a
modest box of dusting powder, and ask,
over your very head, for bottles of per-
fume, expensive bottles of perfume, three-
guinea and four-guinea bottles of per-
fume? B-r-r-rh! And wouldn’t you like
to add to Ko-Ko’s list the name of the
lady who, just having been given a third
string of pearls, a ring with a square
emerald and positively dozens of pairs of
stockings, remarks, as she hands over to
you the stingiest of powder puffs:
“Darling, just a thought. But I always
think it is the good wishes rather than the
gift that counts”? Something lingering
with boiling oil in it, please!
The Fred Spencers’ Christmas party is
still being talked over by those lucky
enough to be invited. To begin with, it
was a cocktail party of great size and
variety, and then, when dusk had settled
on the land, it turned into a Christmas-
tree. Santa Claus appeared in a door-
way and said “Come with me,” and two
by two the guests went down the veran-
dah steps and through the garden to
where a tree stood twinkling with lights.
Then there was an exciting present-giving
(everyone receiving a full-size gift), and,
though the Spencers are brass-hats in
Nestle’s, nobody was given chocolates.
Phyllis Norton, better known to Aus-
tralia as Phyllis Spence, is making a suc-
cessful career for herself in London. She
has inherited the talent of her father,
Percy Spence, and has exhibited at the
Royal Academy on several occasions.
During December she held an exhibition
of her work in Bond-street, and the Duke
and Duchess of York were among those
who visited it. The London art critics
were full of praise, and the painter has
received an offer from the “Daily
Herald” to do some illustrations. She
has already planned a series of pictures,
and intends to depict various walks of
life in London. She is going to do studies
of the Inns of Court, Smithfield Market
and other picturesque scenes which the
average Londoner has come to take for
granted.
And here’s a true Christmas story that
proves how goodwill may influence even
the lottery barrel. A suburban man had
always given his wife something de luxe
to greet December 25. All through 1935
he was ill, and is now making slow
recovery. A few weeks before Christmas
he remarked how sorry he was that this
last' Christmas would be a giftless one.
However, when his wife left the hos-
pital, he asked one of the nurses to get
a lottery ticket in her name. And,
behold! it won a prize of ten pounds.
In spite of the rush of shopping and
holly-trimmed cookery the lawns and
the stands at Randwick bloomed with
Christmas belles. Thin silks, sheers and
chiffons were the general wear of the
women racegoers, and hats were brim-
ful. Many were linen. Mrs. Anthony
Hope Osborne’s was of this material in
brown; it was worn with a frock of
powder blue and brown toeless sandals.
With her were her husband, Lieut.
Osborne, and her mother, Mrs. R.
Norton. Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar was
equally striking in her yellow-and-black
outfit on Boxing Day, and in the black
frock with clever blue-lined sleeves she
sported on the first day. Surgeon John
McKelvey’s lady was one of the smart-
est in brown and white, and a Govern-
ment House group included the Baroness
Burton and her husband, Major Melles
(arrivals by the Orama), and the Lock-
hart Little couple, from Wangaratta. The
Baroness’s white crepes were spattered
with cornflowers, and she carried a white
parasol, although her hat was wide o£
brim.
Blue recurred with frequency, but was
never tiresome. Philippa Stephen wore
blue in one of the hydrangea tones;
Barbara Knox’s choice was navy. Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, just back from Japan,
wore a cool white hat with her flowery
crepes ; Mrs. Alan Potter’s navy was also
topped with white millinery; white spots
grew giddily on Mrs. Hans Fay’s del-
phinium-blue suit; Mrs. Harry Drans-
field’s cape was black and pleated, and
worn with a black-and-white frock. Mrs.
Muriel Mackay was in black. Sheila
Chaffey expressed herself in brown-and-
white linen, and Marie Coen in navy
and white.
Another centenarian in our midst is
Tusculum, the private hospital at Potts
Point. A hundred years ago it became
the home of William Long, grandfather
of the Daileys and Oswald Cheeke. Then
it was surrounded by acres of grounds.
A few weeks ago Mr. Cheeke dug up
some old photographs of Tusculum, and
sent them to the hospital matron, who
had expressed her interest in the house’s
former days.


. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
"THE WENTWORTH"
For InElamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
A. RO S E &■ Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
Melbourne
chatter
A large crowd came to play with its
Christmas cheques on Boxing Day at
Caulfield. Owing to the wind, clothes
were plucked from all seasons. A young
visitor from Sydney was Phyllis Mort,
who wore a brown hat and tunic-blouse
with a long coat of hand-woven oatmeal
linen. Mrs. Maurice Sloman was snug
in furs and a suit and hat of warm cin-
namon-brown. Mrs. Tennent-Hunter
made a bright spot of color with her
skirt of Robin Hood green and her
scarlet jacket. Shirley Sleight was in a
loosely-woven caped ensemble of parch-
ment tint, and Mrs. Austin Levy’s grey
suit went with a brown blouse and hat.
Part of the Christmas ritual for St.
Paul’s Cathedral Choir was cheering the
patients in hospitals with Christmas
carols. This year it was the turn of
Royal Melbourne and the Children’s.
The Precentor (Rev. Richard Sherwood)
and Dr. Floyd (some of whose own com-
positions were sung) accompanied the
sixteen men and score of boys, for, with
the exception of the smallest boys, the
whole choir took part in the hospital
visits. The lad with the pitch-pipe was
John Nicholls, the 19-year-old winner
of the Clark Scholarship of the Royal
College of Music.
At the Melbourne Hospital the carol-
singers were first of all given high-tea in
the staff dining-room —salads and jellies,
sweets and gingerpop. The lads had a
splendid meal, and sang like little angels
immediately afterwards as, wearing their
paper caps, they trooped from floor to
floor caroling within sight and hearing
of all the 23 wards. The Matron (Miss
D. H. Grey), Sister Buchanan and Sister
Humphreys followed in the wake of the
carols, and at each stopping-place nurses
on duty (all of whom seemed to be
young and pretty) joined in the applause.
A glimpse into the sick nurses’ ward
showed half a dozen young women sit-
ting up in bed, all eyes and ears among
blue hydrangeas and bowls of oranges.
There was friendly but intense rivalry
between the wards over festive decora-
tions. On Christmas morning the nurses
were up at 4 a.m. arranging flowers in
jardinieres and making a brave showing
with crinkled paper, streamers and bal-
loons. The doctors assisted with dona-
tions ; the nurses ran raffles to help with
the expense, and didn’t mind how much
trouble they took, for the patients’ grati-
tude was ample compensation. Christ-
mas dinner for patients and staff was
extra special. The night nurses, who have
to sleep through Christmas Day, ate their
turkey and plum pudding, pulled their
crackers and put on their caps at 7.45
on Christmas Eve.
For fifteen years Wallace Mitchell has
been Alfred Hospital’s Father Christ-
mas, and for twenty years Mrs. Barry
Thomson has been “Mrs. Christmas,” for
she is president of the Entertainments
Committee, which gives and collects all
the toys for the tree. The nurses deco-
rated the ward with hydrangeas and
gladioli, and vine leaves and fern
climbed round the windows and dis-
guised the steam heaters. The doctors
helped with step-ladders and hammers.
The little patients got a splendid thrill,
even though some were nervous about
the bearded apparition in red, and one
small boy criticised the necessary jollity
with “Father Christmas is a very noisy
man.”
Among the happy young people were
Robert Phillips, aged four, with his
broken leg hoisted high, and Byron
Hughes, aged six, also strapped up to a
leg-sling—he had his smash off a scooter.
Cleve Bendle, who had one ear ban-
daged, adored the- “funny-man mask”
that came out of his stocking, and fixed
it on to his one good ear. Young
Eustace Geoffrey, who has merry brown
eyes and devastating dimples, sat up in
his cot with a pirate paper cap stuck on
the top of his bandaged head, and a
tiny thing hugging Peter Rabbit tricked
everybody with a mop of curls. What
they thought was a girl was a bonny
boy, Richard King.
The doctors and some of the nurses
were also handed presents by Santa
Claus. Dr. Clement Mason got a Japan-
ese fan ; H. C. Colville chose a statue
hanging by its neck to the tree. Dr. R.
Orton asked for and received a minia-
ture mangle; Dr. lan Pender and Dr. N.
Laidlaw showed a preference for boxes
which might have contained snakes-and-
ladders. Toy watercans went to Matron
Wilson and Mrs. Jim Buchanan (wife of
one of the honoraries). Father Christmas
had to climb aloft for Dr. Wallace, who
coveted a tambourine on the topmost
branch of the tree.
Wearing the ribbon round her head is
one of the tallest young women we have
seen in Melbourne—Joan Bessemer
Clark. Accompanying her mother, Miss
Clark has travelled half-way across the
world to be present at the marriage of
her brother to Elaine Brookes. Broothorn
photo.
China and glass were in great request
among Christmas shoppers. In glass are
the loveliest fishes, as ornamental as the
finny creatures with trailing whiskers and
electric lights on the tips of their feelers
which are pictured for us by marine
biologists. Some of these glass fish have
nothing to do but be expensive orna-
ments ; others are given a mission as
lamps or flower-carriers.
Colored glass is shown in all sorts of
designs. Balloon-shaped bowls are used
to float single blossoms or to water the
tall stalks of masses of flowers. There
are also posy bowls: small things, just
large enough to accommodate a per-
forated flower-holder. Mirrors tinted a
pale amber look particularly pleasing
under an ornamental bowl. If no bowl
is forthcomnig to match your present of
a mirror you can for variety provide a
sort of Narcissus-at-the-Pool effect for
your dining-room table. Columns
around which leaves are twisted, some
flowers and perhaps a nymph are
material for artistic fingers —but keep the
stalks dry or Narcissus will see himself
distorted on the serene surface of the
fairy lake.
Here’s a new slant on an old card-
sharping trick: A businessman travelling
by ship between Melbourne and Sydney
was invited to play bridge by two men.
The steward was suspicious of the pair
and warned the traveller, who didn’t
worry as he had a few pounds to lose.
The fourth player, an old gentleman dug
up out of the music-room, was anxious
for a game, but announced his strong
disapproval of playing for money. Every-
body consented to play for nothing, and
the game got under way. After an hour
of uneventful contract, the businessman,
who was partnered by one of the
“crooks,” picked up 12 diamonds and the
ace of spades. While he bid diamonds
the opponents bid spades, and finally his
seven diamonds were topped by seven
spades. “Double,” said the businessman,
“but we might as well put our hands
down.” “No,” said the opponent crook,
“I’ll redouble, and I’ll bet you anything
you like that I’ll get my contract —£500
if you’re game enough.” “All right, but
I don’t usually bet on certainties.” They
both wrote out cheques for £5OO, and then
the little old gentleman became agitated.
“I told you I would not play where there
was gambling. We’ll wash the hand out
altogether.” And he took the cheques
off the table and threw away a shower
of pieces of paper. The game con-
cluded, and the next day the ship berthed
in Sydney. The businessman, calling at
his bank in the afternoon, got a shock
when he was informed that the cheque for
£5OO he had written the previous night
had been cashed at one minute past ten
that morning.
Four one-act plays put a Christmas
seal on the year’s activities at the Little
Theatre. In “The Dumb and the Blind”
Leila Pirani had one of Marie Tempest’s
parts as Liz, wife of Joe of the mud-
barge E 4. Liz breathes heavily, wears
an ox-blood-red blouse and hangs Joe’s
socks up to dry among the cups and
saucers on the dresser. Lesley O’Toole
was daughter Emmy, who, having reached
compound multiplication, can no longer
entrust her homework to ma, whose edu-
cation was elementary. Others well cast
were Ray Connell as the bargee and
Terence Crisp as offsider Bill Pepper.
Of unusual material is “Overtones,” by
Alice Gerstenberg. As Harriet and Mar-
garet, Barbara Elford and Bonita Free-
man meet over tea and talk with an out-
ward veneer of friendliness, while behind
them, swathed in black veils and with
heavily-blued eyelids, lurk their primi-
tive selves, portrayed by Alma Silvester
and Enid Hollins. The “primitives”
show their claws, for they hate one an-
other. Thus Harriet (who is very
hungry), while angling for a commission
for her famous but penniless artist hus-
band, must refuse another cake with a
pretty gesture, to the groan of distress
from her starving primitive, for “they”
have not eaten since the day before.
In “A Farewell Supper,” Molly Hede,
in black with white hydrangeas on her
corsage, played an easy-come-easy-go
game opposite Jack Wilshire, with Ter-
ence Crisp as a sort of chaperon or
“undertaker to their dead love.” “Un-
natural Scene” is placed in a business
college. Brenda Newbold as the secre-
tary got most effect out of her lines.
Jack Cato has caught the profile of
Joan Thomas, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
T. Thomas, of St. Kilda. Joan’s favorite
sport is tennis, and she was captain of
St. Michael’s team during her sub-deb.
days.
“Yes, Madam?” is a bright show with
a theme song everybody knows, “What
Are You Going to Do When Love
Comes?” sung by Gus Bluett and Diana
du Cane on a step-ladder—just as shaky
a footing as love is on. Leo Franklyn
as Mr. Peabody, a Lancashire button
manufacturer, steals some of the thunder
of the little-Albert-Ramsbottom-eaten-by-
the-lion story. Peabody believes that
“bootons,” not zips, make the world go
round. Diana du Cane likes slits up the
front of her frocks. As the pseudo-
maid she wears a raisin-colored satin
frock with a lace pocket handkerchief
of an apron to match her diminutive
scrap of a cap. Lois Green wears a silver
belt with a diaphanous-blue ninon frock,
all swaying skirt and bell sleeves. Marie
le Varre, who, just in case there is any
doubt about her agility, does a hand-
spring and the splits, wears pale-green
lingerie, a ruched and frilled neglige and
a couple of sophisticated evening gowns,
for she is a frequenter of the Knuckle-
bone Club, “where one pays the highest
prices and hears the lowest conversation
in London.”
Chorus and ballet wear lovely clothes
—pale-pink chiffon frocks cut with
high waists, puffed sleeves and gath-
ered Raglan necks under plain little
Peter Pan collars. In the dream
scene the ballet is all pale-blue and
misty, and later it melts into mid-
night-blue and spangles. In one ex-
hilarating dance the girls are in three
groups, royal-purple, emerald-green and
white, their wide skirts are attached to
their fingers like wings, and the way the
colors sway and mingle is a creative
achievement.
Experiments in opening Melbourne
National Gallery at night have not
proved encouraging. The approach of
warm weather caused the attendances to
slump from 214 to 23, and the average
since Nov. 1 has been 60. Seeing that
it costs the gallery a shilling per visitor
on the present basis, there seems little
likelihood of the practice continuing—
which is regrettable from many points
of view. The final word is with the
State Government, and it is not likely to
put up the money.
On January 4, in the Mariposa, two
young men of brains and initiative are
leaving for the U.S.A. on a goodwill
debating and lecture tour sponsored
by Melbourne Uni. They are Colin
McAuliffe (Wesley and Queen’s) and
Nevil Stuart (Geelong Grammar and
Trinity), both in their early twenties,
honors-degree men who have done
honors courses in Economics. They pay
their own expenses for the tour, which
has the approval of the Melb. professorial
board and the co-operation in America
of the National Students’ Federation.
The two young ambassadors will lecture
and debate at some of the 1700 U.S.A.
and Canadian universities.
The two, debaters have prepared
subject-matter and ammunition on the
Australian aspects of a wide scope of
political and economic topics. In addi-
tion, they are prepared to maintain in
debates or lectures such propositions as
(1) that the League of Nations should
be made a super-Power; (2) that the
salvation of the world lies rather in
dictatorship than in democracy; (3) that
our system of living spells the doom of
culture ; (4) that civilisation is bound to
decay once it penetrates the masses.
After the tour, which will probably last
from six to eight months, Messrs.
McAuliffe and Stuart will go to Scot-
land, for both have more than one sprig
of heather in their family trees. They
are officers of the Vic. Scottish Regiment.
Two young women students plucking
at the tree of knowledge have found all
sorts of honors falling about their
shoulders. Yvonne Aitken, one of the
few girls to invade the territory of agri-
cultural science, has completed her course
with high distinction. She has earned
a share in the Dixson scholarship of
Agricultural Engineering and Surveying
and the Wrixon Exhibition in Agricul-
ture 111. The Turner scholarship entitles
her to £135 for research.
Dymphna Lodewyckx, daughter of the
Associate-Professor for Modern Lan-
gauges, secured an exhibition in French
and honors in four subjects of her
second-year arts course. Dymphna gets
plenty of practice in languages, for her
parents are Belgian, and Mrs. Lode-
wyckx, as well as the professor, is a
fluent linguist.
Melbourne surgeon Allan Newton and
his wife are starting to take seriously
their 12-year-old daughter. Unknown to
her parents, Deborah wrote a play called
“Let’s Pretend” which she entered for the
junior section of the Dramatists’ Club.
It’s a dream-play with two children as
central figures, and it easily won the
prize. Deborah is a pupil of C. of E.
Grammar School.
The City Council has started a No-
smoking Campaign in the shops. The
new fire-prevention regulations intro-
duced under the Health Act aim at fire
precautions among large crowds of
people. Nobody minds not smoking in
shops—men don’t like shopping, anyway,
and always dash through their purchases
as quickly as possible—and so far very
few women have been noticed lighting
up over a reel of cotton or a pair of
gloves. As long as nobody tries to do
away with smoking in restaurants or in
the picture-shows that already counten-
ance the practice there will be no radi-
cals in revolt.
Steady drinking around Christmas has
given Melbourne something of a hang-
over. Many a city office produced drinks
on Christmas Eve for its staff and any
clients who happened to drop in, and in
most of the shops the employees clubbed
together to buy beer. In hotel lounges
only the most persistent could get served,
for the waiters could not cope with the
crowds.


THE KING’S SCHOOL
(PARRAMATTA)
m
' ■ ■ ... ■■
Extensive modern additions made in 1934-35.
New classrooms, laboratories, dormitories,
modern swimming pool.
Vacancies for 1936
APPLY THE HEADMASTER
Position Wanted.
MAN, 40, suction-gas installations and main-
tenance overhauls, seeks job anywhere. Replies
No. 273, c/o Bulletin, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL Mr. HOLMES PORTER, who up till
three years ago resided in or near Warwick,
or any person knowing of his whereabouts,
communicate with J. F. FITZGERALD &
WALSH, Solicitors, Box 379 E, G.P.0., Bris-
bane, who have information of interest to the
abovenamed.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
the only son (aged 40-50 years) of the late
THOMAS STEPHENSON, who emigrated with
his brothers William and John Stephenson
from Donegal, Ireland, after the year 1870,
and who first married in Australia (where the
said son was born prior to 1896), and sub-
sequently married Ane Chatrine Hansen in
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand, where he was
accidentally killed in 1896, kindly communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hastings, New Zealand, immediately?
grra
STOPS SEA SICKNESS
A FEAST OF FUN
“The Great Book of Humor”
768 Pages—50 Masterpieces of Humor by 50
World-famous Authors. Wodehouse, Priestley.,
Milne, Jacobs, Chesterton, Leacock, etc., etc.
Special Concession Offer to Headers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue.
On Sale All Newsagents—PKICE 6d.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1920 of 1935.
BETWEEN ARTHUR FURNISS Petitioner
And FLORENCE MAUD FURNISS Re-
spondent.
TO FLORENCE MAUD FURNISS late of
Mudgee in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ARTHUR
Furniss has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of December,
1935.
For the Registrar,
(l.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
BORTHWICK & BUTLER, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Inverell. By their Agents,
RAND & DREW, Solicitors, 2 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1916 of 1935.
BETWEEN THOMAS WALLACE COOK
Petitioner
And LENA ANDERINA COOK Re-
spondent.
TO LENA ANDERINA COOK late of Surry
Hills near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
WALLACE COOK has commenced a' suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a Dissolution of Marriage on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Nineteenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of Decem-
ber, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. R. WISHART, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO ARTHUR WALSH, SON~ OF JAMES
WALSH, WHO DIED INTESTATE IN
NEW ZEALAND ON 27th MARCH, 1934;
TO HIS ISSUE AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY, THROUGH OR UNDER
HIM OR THEM:
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby authorised to send to me on or before
the First day of February, 1936, your claims
to share in the estate of the abovenamed
James Walsh, failing which such estate will be
distributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 25th day of
November, 1935.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Re John Morgan, Deceased.
PURSUANT to Order of Chancery Division
High Court of Justice dated July 16 1934 and
made in re JOHN MORGAN Deceased (late
of Lower Cefn Carnddu Farm Llangibby Mon-
mouth who died November 23 1933) Morgan
v. Morgan and Dean 1934M. 1695 the follow-
ing inquiry was directed: “What person or
persons upon the death of the abovenamed
Intestate JOHN MORGAN became beneficially
entitled to any property of his as to which he
died intestate and for what estates and inter-
ests and in what shares and proportions and
whether any such persons are since dead and
if they died entitled to any vested share or
interest who are their legal personal repre-
sentatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry
are on or before March 4, 1936, to send by
post prepaid to WILLIAM JOHN EVERETT,
of Pontypool, Monmouth, England, their full
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims, or in default thereof they
may be excluded from the benefit of the said
Order. Wednesday, March 11, 1936, at 12
o’clock noon is the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims before Master Haw-
kins, Room 168, Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, England. A claimant not
residing in England or Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this Third day of December, 1935.
W. F. S. HAWKINS,
Master.
Note. —The following persons or their issue
respectively may be entitled, viz., Elizabeth
Jones and John Gordon Edwards, who were
last heard of as being in Australia; John
Brown, who was last heard of as having been
seen in Worcester, England; and William
Edward Moore, who was last heard of as
being in Iraq.
SYDNEY
Going to Sydney? Then stay at
Petty’s Hotel... Petty’s is differ-j
ent; there is an air of restful'
quietness. Service is perfect;
cuisine excellent. Tariff, Room
and Breakfast lnclusive 18 ; -
PETTYS
York Street, Sydney
Hotel
R. J. Langley, Manager
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The “Standing Room Only” sign was
suspended outside St. Mary’s Hall for
the Pleiades Club’s end-of-the-year party.
The version of “The Battle of Crecy”
was an eye-opener to historians ; Mother
Goose mimed her story with the assist-
ance of an X.O.S. in golden eggs;
dramatised merry jests of a minute's
duration took the place of entr’acte
numbers, and Father Christmas brought
a gift from the members to secretary
Jeanne Parker. The club choir sang
tunefully under Max Rutter’s baton.
For her wedding to Ted Dunphy at
St. Mary’s, Peggy Nunn’s white brocaded
satin was resplendent with silver tassels.
A couple hung at' the ends of the long
silver girdle, one apiece dangled from
the ends of the angel-wing sleeves and
the tips of the fishtail train were
elongated with the geegaws. From a
pearly halo foamed her rose-appliqued
Brussels net veil, nearly reaching train-
bearer little Wendy Nunn, who held her
silver basket of flowers before ankle-
length palest-blue chiffons. Attendants
Molly Dunphy, Jean Murray and Elsa
Glyde swung shirred capes over their
silver-girdled blue georgettes and peeped
through the transparent brims of their
blue and silver hats.
Local nibs penned several numbers on
the Rep. Soc.’s close-of-the-season bill.
Main item was Ralph Stoddart’s rhymed
potted pantomime, incorporating the
“new revolting stage” from which Alad-
din was whisked into space by the magic
of the Genie of the Lamp. Bill Darby-
shire’s bellowdrama, “The Villain Still Pur-
sued Her,” was played by men in ear-
high collars and sideboards, with the
heroine all be-bustled; a sectional
elephant bore the brunt of Nancy
Rogers’s musical medley, “Hill Station
in Hindustan” ; Bill Scott presented “Old
Moore’s Almanac,” and Mrs. R. J. Cox
directed “Nothing Ever Happens” (Garth
Symington’s Guy was a highlight).
Connie Wardell-Johnson’s first bride-
elect party was given by Edna Barry in
the Palace Hotel drawing-room. The
black-and-white-figured crepes of the
hostess were backgrounded by pink
gladioli, and Connie’s off-white suit was
in a box seat as she sipped refreshments
and listened to Joy Fordham’s pianoforte
solos.
Occasions for wassail were the birth-
days of a brace of octogenarians. Frank
Wittenoom reached the four-score mark
at a dinner party at the Palace, and
Edward Hester passed his eighty-first
milestone with a bridge party at the
Hester home in West Perth, where his
lady’s spray of lilies-of-the-valley looked
well on the shoulder of her rich black
velvets.
Mrs. G. H. Bacon hoisted a silver
ensign on her royal-blue crepes when
her commodore husband was at the helm
of the Freshwater Bay Yacht Club’s
Yuletide Ball. Colored lights outlined
the premises and the craft moored to
the jetty, where palm-surrounded tables
were used for bridge. The Hobbs lady
was there, in black lace. Pauline Wood-
roffe gave a glimpse of dawn with her
pink georgette and tulle ; a silver thread
rippled on Pat Saw’s blue pool; Mrs.
Horace Foster dived deep for her oyster-
spotted nets; Mary Forrest’s greeny
crepes foamed with crystal beads, and
a wind swept Mrs. J. G. Foreman’s rosy
satins.
Karrakatta Club welcomed a quintet of
members back from overseas. President
Mrs. D. D. Paton, in neat navy-and-
white-figured crepe de Chine, ushered
Mrs. John Forrest, Mrs. W. J. Winter-
bottom, Mrs. R. Bunning, Mrs. F. Bar-
nett and Mrs. F. Wedge to their box
seats.
Dorothy Forbes is to go into double
harness with Sydney Yeo, of Depot
Springs, Sandstone. Gwen Saw brought
her heart back from England and had it
stolen by Don Stewart, of Cottesloe ; and
Sylvia Diamond has booked a marriage
date with Hugh Bamford, of Batavia.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Wintry conditions prevailed at the
Cheltenham race meeting, and many
women wore furs. Dr. A. V. Benson’s
wife (he is still on the sick list) enter-
tained at the women’s luncheon wearing
a dark-grey tweed tailored suit. Mrs.
R- L. Butler’s stone-grey ribbed silk
ensemble went with swagger coat of the
same hue. Mrs. A. C. Cutten, whose hus-
band was acting-chairman, was gowned
in black georgette, with a mink-fur stole.
Mrs. S. J. Jacobs’s black self-patterned
marocain had a cape effect. Mrs. H.
Allan Morris chose a smart dark-blue
wool georgette, the jacket lined with a
blue-and-grey plaid, with vest of the same.
A handsome silver fox was slung over
one shoulder. Muriel Hall’s navy silk
frock, coin-spotted with white, was worn
with a navy swagger coat. Mrs. A.
Netter was in a black tailored suit, with
a blouse and scarf of black-and-grey-
striped silk. Her small hat was of black
cire straw. Denise Russell, of Mel-
bourne, whose engagement to George,
second son of the late Dr. J. J. Sangster
and Sangster, of Unley Park, has
been announced, sported an indigo linen
frock and white halo hat. The Moulden
lady chose white marocain, with a jacket
of white lace and a wide-brimmed hat.
Mrs. Roy Burston’s navy belted wool
marocain coat was topped with a navy
Breton sailor hat lined with white.
Jean, elder daughter of the P. Bar-
bours, Malvern, exchanged vows with
Harold, younger son of Mr. and Mrs. F.
W. Tidemann, Highgate, at Flinders-
street Baptist Church. The couple ex-
changed wedding rings in German style.
Many members of the Elder Con. staff
were at the ceremony. Peg Barbour sup-
ported her sister in ivory flowered taffeta,
with pale-blue and apricot velvet
streamers on her cream Leghorn hat. The
bride chose beige lace, veiling taffeta,
and a bronze straw hat trimmed with
beige velvet flowers.
Welcome-home parties to returned
travellers have been responsible for many
cheery afternoons. Among other enter-
tainments of the sort Mrs. Kenneth
Milne entertained Mesdames A. W. Jolly,
of Brougham-place, North Adelaide, and
Mrs. Guy Makin, of Strangways-terrace,
at a bridge party, given at her home at
Waverley Ridge, Mount Lofty.
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Ayers were given
a round of parties before they left Clare
to reside in town in order to be near
Mrs. Ayers’s mother, the Kidman lady.
Mrs. J. K. Smith, of Clare, was among
the last to entertain them, when del-
phiniums and Canterbury bells were used
for decoration. Mrs. Ayers will leave
early in January for a trip to the Orient
accompanied by her niece, Joan Reid.
At the dinner of the Uni. Women Law
Students’ Society at the Lyceum Club
the guests of honor were Christina
Walker, Jean Gilmore and Rosemary
Alexander, recently admitted to the Bar.
An original Christmas gift was sent
by Seymour Dunn in London to his
parents in North Adelaide. It took the
form of a gramophone record. When
they put it on the machine the recipients
heard their son’s voice wishing them the
compliments of the season, and mention-
ing Adelaide friends he had seen in
London.
While Mrs. Hugh Corpe and her three
girls were abroad her second daughter,
Margaret, met and married Dr. Edmund
Doerr, a- Hamburg gynaecologist. Jean
Corpe has announced her engagement to
Peter Siekmann, son of Mr. and Mrs. F.
C. Siekmann, of Kensington Gardens.
Mrs. Lance Lewis, of Benacre, Glen
Osmond, is in Sydney, where she is the
guest of Lady Gowrie at Government
House. Mrs. Lewis was one of Lady
Gowrie’s most intimate friends when the
Hore-Ruthvens were at Adelaide G.H.
TASMANIA.
Sheila, Anita and Douglas Parsons
gave a jolly dance at their own home,
Bloomfield, Macquarie Plains. The wide
verandah and an adjoining room were
arranged for dancing, and the garden was
most attractive between whiles, the night
being warm. Lupins, delphiniums and
other tall and graceful spiky flowers were
used in decoration, and about 100 guests,
chiefly young people, enjoyed the occa-
sion.
Mrs. James Murray was guest of
honor at a party at the Queen Mary
Club. She had just returned from Eng-
land to spend the summer in the Speck
as usual. Bridge was the chief feature
of the afternoon, though a good many
members came in later for tea and talk.
Lady Clark was there. Mrs. Murray,
looking well after her trip, wore a pretty
turnout of greyish blue, shot with mauve.
Mrs. J. Ingles gave an at-home for the
friends of daughter Meg before the
latter’s marriage. The rooms were
decked with hydrangeas and roses, tea-
tables in the dining-room being done with
Mermaid roses in flat bowls. The hostess
wore anavy-and-white turnout, and Meg’s
navy frock was specked with little white
dogs.
Meg Ingles was much be-partied before
her wedding with G. F. Davies. Carys
Page, Gwen Fitzgerald and Mrs. R. I.
Clive were among the hostesses. For the
ceremony the bride wore a navy-and-
white crinkle crepe frock and a blue hat
with the new square crown. Gwen Fitz-
gerald attended her in blue chiffon.
Mrs. Percy Harrison and Mas. Archer,
Longford, were joint hostesses at a party
at the Launceston Hotel. Bridge tables
were set out in both lounges, and a
number of non-bridge players rolled up
in time for tea.
Hobart is the poorer for the passing of
A. R. Reid, curator of the Zoo. He was
a man with a special flair for his job,
and, though our menagerie is a miniature
affair, visiting authorites have always
been struck by the fine condition of the
animals. Mr. Reid’s radio talks were
looked forward to, and he had a large
circle of personal friends.
Matron Lade, formerly of Hobart
Hospital, has been appointed matron at
the Canberra Community Hospital.


Every Sufferer from
knows this to be true
y:i
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[IT Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
£ Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
** stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt s Antacid
Powder.
& On entering the stomach De Witt s
Antacid Powder firstly .neutralises the
excess acid and renders it . harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate ieeling
of well-being.
ffjl Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach - walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain,the genuine product —
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
2/6
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: The most northerly Christ-
mas festivities in territory under Aus-
tralian control were held at Aitape, which
lies under the shadow of the Torrecelli
Range, just below the third degree, in
the New Guinea Mandate. The little
gathering of officials, prospectors and
missionaries there numbers 11, and in-
cludes one white woman. Nothing ever
happens around Aitape except an occa-
sional expedition to open up more coun-
try, a hurricane or an earthquake—they
had a good one in 1935, when a few
million tons of the Torrecelli rolled
around for a few minutes. But Christ-
mas . does count there, in spite of the
and the lack of ice—it is the only
time when the whole European popula-
tion can be seen in one mob.
“Vic”: The so-called “rebellion” on
Murray Island, Torres Strait, must raise
a smile in cynics, who have always be-
lieved, contrary to the official view, that
there was still something savage and
resistant lurking under the sleek skins
of the islanders: Clothes, buildings, hymns,
the A.8.C., the institution of a council and
numerous other amenities have all been
borne with fortitude. A dentist was
the last straw. When the Abo. Depart-
ment sent in a tooth-carpenter to go
over the young of the island, Murray
rose as one man, led by its councillors,
and three whites, including the dentist,
had to fight their way to the boats. As a
result six natives who raised their hands
in the cause of freedom were given a
month each in the calaboose. But it was
a tame affair according to old-time
Murray tradition. A few generations
ago the incident probably would have
been celebrated with dentist for dinner.
* * * *
“XT?*: The Queensland Government
Tourist Bureau has issued a handsomely
illustrated pamphlet on the beauties and
resources of the northern State. It is a
mine of information, but it is marked
with the usual faults of such publica-
tions.. Even a Middle West Ameri-
can tourist might baulk at an article
headed “The Vast' Empery of Wool.”
But the educated Englishman will at least
get a laugh out of the paragraph which
compares the ride of the Leslies to the
Darling Downs, with the march of
Xenophon’s Ten Thousand.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The medical faculty of
Queensland University will begin to
operate next March. The course will be
six years, and there will be two degrees
—Bachelor of Surgery and Bachelor of
Medicine. For the present the schools
will be in makeshift buildings. ;; The
anatomy section will, be housed - in the
old Masonic Hall facing the'Botanical
Gardens. The Pharmacy - College will
give standing room to the physiologists.
In March, also, Sydney will cease to be
the only university in the Common-
wealth with a veterinary school. A five-
year course at Queensland will admit to
a bachelor’s degree. The first two years
will be. spent by students in the estab-
lished science schools, and the last three
mainly at the Government animal-health
station at Yeerongpilly.
=1: * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Our Awful North
seems to produce much the same dire
effects on newspapers as, according to
Canberra, it does on humans. With, the
purchase of the “Times” evening daily,
by the Cairns (Q.) “Post,” there has
occurred the fifteenth press fatality in
N.Q. during the past 15 years. Since 1914
three dailies have succumbed. Concern-
ing human chances of survival, our
eight-year-old, with that grim taste of
childhood for the gruesome, always runs
through the death notices when she brings
in the paper. Arriving with knitted
brows at the breakfast table to-day, she
demanded: “Mummy, what’s an octo—
octogram —no, an oc-to-gen-arian ? Is it
a disease? Nearly everyone you read
about having died round here seems to
be an octogenarian.”
“There y'are, Joe! Didn't I tell y' We'd strike gold if We 'ung round
'ere long enough? There's a coupla good fillin's in these."
“Nagheer”: It is queer to realise that
the once-notorious people of Badu Island
: (Torre§ Strait) have been for over 20
; years the peaceful and industrious sub-
jects of a woman administrator. The
entirely unofficial administrator 75 years
ago was an escaped French convict,
> known by the natives as Wini—a
thoroughly evil, bloody-minded rascal. He
arrived in the early 1840’s in a small
boat, and boasted of having killed and
j eaten his .five companions: Fearing cap-
ture, he led the already savagely disposed
islanders to attack any vessel coming
near. Among his exploits were the
murder of a boat’s crew from The
| schooner John Lord and a raid on the
: neighboring island of Moa from which
the party brought back several canoe-
loads of heads of men, women and chil-
dren. His end is uncertain, but tradition
has it that my old friend Frank Jardine
sailed across from Somerset and shot him
in the ’sixties.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Colin Dights, up from Yetman
for the holidays, have a flat at Southport,
and Alice Thompson, who ’maided for
Peggy Dight a few months ago, is one
of the guests. In the adjoining flat Joan
Menzies and a bunch of other girls are
housed. Also at Southport are the R. A.
Hays, whose house party over the fes-
tive season includes the daughters of the
family, Nancy, Biddy and Joyce, Mrs.
Ken Marlay, Felix Randall and Keith
Taylor. Heather Moore and her people
have a cottage on * Main Beach, and
Norma and Edna Buchanan are staying
with them. Dr. Hemsley and his attrac-
tive wife weren’t' taking any risks of
meeting a “house-full” sign when they
went to -the beaches, so they bought a
cottage at Southport to make sure of
accommodation for their house party.
Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson may have
imagined that by going to Caloundra
they would escape, for a little while, the
fierce white light. Not a bit of it!
Everything with a roof on it has beeii
let for the season, and press photo-
graphers prowl the beaches. Landowners
who vainly have sought buyers for
decades are selling' hunks of land like"
hot cakes.
Mrs. George Newman, of Wyreema,
will have been.a year abroad before she
gets back to- Queensland in February.
She is one of the most notable of the
Downs hostesses—which is saying a lot
—and a well-known figure at the Too-
woomba Show, where her late husband
used to capture all the ribbons about the
place with his Frisian cattle. . .
Mrs. Harry Sterne, of Warwick, num-
bers thousands of Queensland women
among her friends. This is due to the
fact that she is an important figure in
the councils of the C.W.A., and has
travelled all over the State on its busi-
ness. Her daughter lima has just an-
nounced her engagement to Charles Scott,
son of the Charles Scotts, of Dulwich
Hill (N.S.W.). Early January will hear the
Voice breathing. The bride was on the
staff of the Charters. Towers High School,
and her associates there made her a gift
of crystal before she packed up to go
home to Warwick.
The Slade family have had much to
do with the development of the Downs,
and the Slade School at Warwick will
keep their memory green for many a
year. The news of the engagement of
Adrian Slade to Violet Lamb, a Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) girl, is of interest to a
wide circle of friends. The wedding bells
will ring early this year, after which the
two will settle down to housekeeping in
the old Slade home on Glenelg Creek,
near Gore.
Rex Murphy and his lass were married
without fuss. Then they called out to
see Mrs. C. P. Buchanan, the bride’s
mother, and broke the news to her by
tossing the bridal bouquet into sister
Marie Buchanan’s lap. So, if what the
old wives say is true, Marie will be the
next to don the gold badge of the un-
paid housekeeper.
Mrs. Frank Hall gave a bridge party,
and decked her reception-rooms with
hydrangeas and zinnias in honor of Mrs.
J. S. Corbett, recently returned from Eng-
land, and Mrs. W. T. Hendry, just off
to Sydney. The rooms
at Kamilaroi are de-
lightfully cool and airy,
and Mrs. Hall is a per-
fect hostess, wherefore
the guests departed re-
luctantly and latish.
Marjorie Bulcock,
just back from England
and Europe, spent
several months in Aus-
tria and about a month
in Russia. In the; Land
of the Soviets she saw
a drama festival which
vastly impressed her.
Jean Chauvel, who
has been holidaying in
Sydney with brother
Chas. Chauvel and his
wife, got' back to Stan-
thorpe in time to help
; carve the family pud-
ding.
Quite the most original reason for
facing the altar: was given by a B.Y.T.
to her parents recently. “I like John,”
she said comfortably ; “and, besides, he
will only be home once a fortnight.”
Two thoroughly old-fashioned parents
had no hesitation in forbidding the
banns.
Mina: Mowbray is holidaying with
Helen Walker at Bargara, Bundaberg,
and was one of the thirty guests who
assembled under. Mrs. R. G. Curtis’s
roof-tree to wish .each other a happy
Christmas and drink the hostess’s health
in tea.
Judging by ; the shopping crowds,
Depresh has vanished ; and, judging by
the number of gentlemen with faces suf-
fused in smiles and a spirituous odor
about them, there is plenty of spending-
money with which to cope with the
weather. The hottest Christmas for five
years, the experts told us ; and, in some
respects at . least, quite the wettest.


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XXVIII — (Continued).
Ul HOPE I’m not interrupting you,” Scorby said
I almost apologetically.
The rector laughed. “You don’t know what
a start you gave me. I fully expected you to snap out
the handcuffs and arrest me for that fowl Browser
mauled last week.”
Scorby smiled, but rather painfully. “That’s just
the trouble,” he said. “No one really regards me as
a human being. If you are a policeman, you are a
separate breed. Not to be treated as human.”
“Oh, come now.” The rector had got his pipe
going nicely again. “There are drawbacks to every
job.”
“I’m going away.” Scorby brought it out with
difficulty. “I’m leaving the police force.”
“What brought you to that decision?”
“This place, this town.”
The rector smoked his pipe and listened.
“When I came here,” Scorby went on, frowning
at the floor, “I needed a rest.. I thought Tiburon was
going to be a peaceful place full of sheep, where
nothing ever happened more exciting than an attack
of liver-fluke.”
“Not very complimentary. And it was too peace-
ful?”
“Not exactly. Anyway, I’ve decided to leave —
what with one thing and another, and not being able
to work with an ignoramus.”
“Moore’s my churchwarden.”
“He’s still an ignoramus. One of the old school.
The kind that gets policemen caricatured for having
big feet and no brains.”
“He’s been a good churchwarden and a kindly
man,” the rector defended loyally.
“There’s too much work left to me. I’m doing
two men’s work. I get all the dirty jobs. I shouldn’t
be doing the dole. I don’t know anything about half
of what they put on me. Moore imposes.” It all came
out in short, jerky sentences. “Everything from clean-
ing the cells to —to bringing in prisoners the sergeant
won’t handle.” He went on hurriedly: “And all the
returns. I’ve been doing the returns to-day—Sunday.
Seventeen and twopence worth of penny stamps. Even
had to post them.”
The rector’s eyes were losing their look of
caution. Scorby without his trappings looked so boyish
in his welter of petty grievances.
“Then there was the electric iron. I used the
electric iron to press my uniform. There was an excess
on the bill, though really it was Mrs. Moore using
the cleaner. No one could use six and ninepence
worth of electricity in a month just pressing their
suit, could they? And I’d bought the iron myself. I
was reported for using the extra electricity. I fought
it all the way. I knew I hadn’t used it. The depart-
ment said I had to pay the excess. I asked that a
separate meter be put in at the barracks so they could
check up how much I used. They wrote back, and
said that, if the meter was installed, / would have to
pay for the installation. Things like that. Things
rubbing you all the time. And nobody to talk to.”
The rector nodded sympathetically.
“I like to be self-sufficient rather than dependent
on others. One can only maintain a superior standard
of impartiality and clear judgment if one keeps one’s
mind unclouded by other people’s opinions.”
The rector shook his head. “If you take that
view, it might make it rather hard to make friends.”
“I am gregarious,” said Scorby, as stating a fact,
“but not social. I have always despised the herd mind.
I make my own judgments. Earlier than most lads I
was forced to a decision that altered my whole life.
I made it myself. I have always been glad. So many
people cluster in families and societies and congrega-
tions because they are afraid to stand alone. I wanted
to train myself out of that.”
“And have you really succeeded?” the rector
asked. He bent down to eye Browser severely where
she was making a scratching on the carpet with her
back leg as she searched for fleas on the more intimate
parts of her person. “Browser,” he said sternly, “you
will be sprayed if you continue.”
“I don’t suppose I have succeeded,” Scorby said
thoughtfully. “If I had, the hostility of this small
townful of people would not matter to me.”
“I can only take up the ecclesiastical attitude,”
Bill Sorrell responded, “which is that this townful of
people should matter to you. That every living soul
should matter to you as much as if they were members
of your own family.”
“I have no family.” Scorby regarded the carpet.
“When I was sixteen I took my savings and booked
myself a passage for Australia because I wanted to
be as far away from home as possible. There were
occasions when I was glad I had not gone to Canada,
only an ocean away. I would have gone home again
twenty times over if I had only gone to Canada.”
He paused. “Wanting to go back to a place you hate.”
“Why did you hate it?”
“My stepmother. I disliked my father, but my
stepmother I hated.”
“It broke my mother’s heart to know my father
was only waiting until she died to” He broke off.
“I hated the woman from the moment I saw her. Yet
she was young—charming”
“But what use was it to hate her?”
“She liked me. She took my part against my
father. That was the repulsive part of it.” He hesi-
tated. “She tried to make me fall in love with her.
She was always walking into my room. And I was
only a boy. I couldn’t say anything to my father,
naturally. And I couldn’t stand being near her, so I
left.” Scorby straightened his shoulders. “Since that
day I have always despised people not strong enough
to act on their own judgment. Weak characters.”
“People who have not your qualities, in fact.”
“Yes.” Scorby was impervious to satire. “And
yet, strangely enough, the only girl who has really
attracted me for years was a weak character. Vacillat-
ing. Swayed by circumstance. I felt I disliked her
because she reminded me a little of my stepmother;
and yet I felt myself most strongly attracted for the
most trivial reasons.” He looked at the rector
earnestly. “For instance, she was tall and smiled a
good deal. She had a pleasant voice, and spoke with
her head tilted on one side like a bird. I found these
things of more importance than her lack of character.”
“She sounds rather charming to me,” the rector
said sympathetically. He realised now why Scorby
had sought him out. He wanted to talk about Jessica
Daunt. Until this moment Sorrell had not even a
suspicion that the man was interested in her.
“I realise now that it was a weakness on my part,”
Scorby said bitterly. “I should have held aloof. After
all, I had only seen her passing by. I only spoke to
her once or twice.” He laughed, not very happily.
“Why, I can’t even catch an old drunk getting over
a back fence, much less a girl. Especially a flighty,
unscrupulous girl.”
No one would have recognised the superb egoist
Scorby in that dejected figure on the sofa ; and Sorrell
felt a warm little surge of pity.
“You are misjudging her, perhaps,” he suggested
gently. “It isn’t always possible to judge people cor-
rectly, to know all the reasons for their actions.”
“Would it be really worth while to investigate
most of the problems of humanity?” Scorby resumed
his air of a god pointing out a mortal’s muddy boots.
“For instance, this small town. Don’t you think it
would be better just accepted as the dreary place it
is, and not to seek for reasons? Why take it in
detail?”
“Because in the eyes of the Creator of it every-
thing and every person is of equal importance. I have
always had a personal affection for the actual sparrow
that must have occasioned the illustration of Divine
care.” $
“Divine care, eh?” Scorby murmured. “You’re
very certain about it, aren’t you?”
“Irrationally certain, you meant to say.” The
rector smiled, but his expression changed as he leant
down and scowled under the table. “I spoke to you
before, Browser,” he remonstrated. “This is the third
and last time of asking.”
“Divine care,” Scorby said, with a note of con-
tempt in his voice. “How can an intelligent man
actually postulate such a thing when you look at
this” —he waved a hand to indicate the town —“this
tangle of incoherent lives fulfilling no high purpose?
They have no will, no choice of their own, but to
exist, and they are governed in that undesirable
existence by one ultimate value —food. Go they must
where they get their food, or where their mating and
breeding lead them. And this hopeless, inarticulate
and confused tangle of people is, you say, the subject
of Divine care?”
“Quaintly enough, yes.”
“They wouldn’t believe you any more than I do.
They go where their love or hunger leads.”
Sorrell smiled. “You’ve forgotten the other mov-
ing factors in their lives. Take prejudices, for instance.
A human being often goes against his best interest on
a like or dislike. You’ve left out convictions, mistakes,
pride, vanity; all that makes us civilised. You’ve left
out character.”
Scorby waved his hand. “All the result of heredity
and environment.”
“That’s fatalism,” the rector responded. “I’m tired
of you fatalist economists who talk about species and
groups and leave out of account the individuals for
whom you cannot account. You put people into
pigeonholes and twist them out of shape with statis-
tics before you dare try to understand them. Come
back to bedrock. Come back to the individual human
being before you talk about heredity and environ-
ment.”
Scorby looked a little disconcerted. “I merely
meant to imply that, if there were a Divine care
exercised over such people as, say, the Whites —there
I go again—it is taking a great deal of trouble over
very little.”
“I know you like to trust your own judgment to
any limit,” the rector answered. “But 1 dare not trust
mine. I dare not agree with you.”
Scorby sat back easily on the sofa.
“They were a set of most interesting cases, the
Whites,” he resumed. “The girls notably amoral,
and I suspect the two elder girls of being of low-grade
mentality. Among the men, one horse-thief, one Don
Juan, one imbecile, one low-grade, an ungovernable
type caring for nothing except brawling and fighting,
and one would-be murderer. Not even a successful
murderer. A particularly clumsy and atrocious case.”
Scorby stretched his arms behind his head. “In a fit
of ungovernable rage the man battered his victim with
a length of iron. It is almost impossible to believe that
human beings could do such things. He gave himself
up, you know. I was alone when he walked in.
Frankly, I can tell you, I was afraid.”
The rector said nothing. Scorby glanced at him
almost defiantly. “Not the sort of thing one would
believe of a town where one expected to find only a
couple of cases of sheep with liver-fluke.”
The rector looked at him long and searchingly.
“And so you are leaving the police force for the trivial
reasons that you are lonely, the town doesn’t suit you,
and you have accomplished your mission of driving
from this place a set of people whom you have judged
to be undesirable?”
“No.” All the mask of superman fell from
Scorby. “No, not for those reasons. Not even because
the lady was prejudiced against me by my uniform.
I have altogether different reasons.”
The rector reached over for the insect spray which
he kept handy on the mantelpiece, and thoughtfully
puffed it at Browser. That astute animal immediately
dived under the sofa, where she felt she was safe, and
looked out with two beady eyes between Scorby’s
boots.
“The deepest reason of all,” Scorby went on, “is
that the life does not satisfy me. To a man accus-
tomed as lam to using my own judgment the petty
regulations are irksome. I thought I should be happy
if, while on duty, I turned myself into a mere machine
for performing those set duties. So I was in the city.
No one interfered with me as long as I carried out
my job. I was busy, happy and ambitious. I was
given positions where I was allowed to exercise my
own initiative. Now I only want to get out.” He
frowned at the carpet. “This place. First you want to
re-form it, remake it —at least, spruce it up a bit —
and I flatter myself that I have succeeded a little in
that way.” He paused. “Yet you want to get out
before the place remakes you. Night after night,
walking alone, sitting alone, alone on my days off,
I have been forced to think until I nearly drove myself
mad. There were only two alternatives—think or
work. I could feel the consolidated hostility of this
town pressing on me like a wall.”
He stopped and looked at Sorrell.
“One of my real purposes in coming here to-night,
Mr. Sorrell,” he resumed, “was to let you know there
is a move among some of your congregation to make
trouble for you higher up.”
Sorrell smiled at him cheerily. “They’d have to
go right up where they’d need the wings they still
believe they may get some day. Yes, they’ll have to
go right up to their imaginary gold and diamond-
studded throne before I’ll begin to worry.”
“But don’t such actions as theirs really make you
want to leave this place and its stifling petty malicious-
ness?”
Sorrell was relighting his pipe. “I. haven’t left—
yet,” he said. “I shall probably be planted in the
churchyard next to Jeffery Harper, with a slab on top
voicing the traditional despicable hopes for my resur-
rection.” He chuckled. “I have always wondered
whether I should rise with or without my lost
appendix.”
He rose. “I am absolutely parching for a cup of
tea. Come into the kitchen. Do you mind? Mrs.
Sorrell must be in bed by now.” He led the way along
the passage. “Mag, mag, mag, as my friend Denny
says. That’s all I do. I have a visitor come to see me
and I don’t let him get a word in edgeways. It’s really
deplorable.”
“On the contrary,” Scorby said, “you have no
idea how glad I am that I came here to-night. I feel
as though a load has been lifted. Somehow I wanted
to come and see you ; I. don’t know why. I wish I
could be—could think the way you do.”
“Difference of temperament,” the rector said, fill-
ing the electric jug. “Still, I think you are right to
leave the police force. It needs a less idealistic type
of man. You can’t go bothering yourself about evolu-
tion and abstract justice while you are delivering
summonses. The incongruity is too great.”
“That’s what I felt,” Scorby said eagerly. “I find
aeronautical engineering really interests me. And, since
I have the offer of the job You think I’m doing
right?”
“Yes.” Sorrell was definite.
“I’m very glad you do. I was doubtful at first
whether it was a wise move. And I’ve had no one to
consult.” He looked at Sorrell as the rector fed
Browser with biscuits. “I think the man White, the
assault case, really made up my mind for me. It was
something he said. He said ‘That wasn’t what I
wanted. It was something else.’ And —do you know? —I
might have been listening to my own self speaking.
I usually try to preserve a judicious distance to
prisoners, but I could not help feeling personally
interested in the man.” Sorrell swished across the
blue kitchen in his black cassock towards the boiling
of the water-jug. “I knew he was an undesirable, but
nevertheless he —he might have been me.” He
followed Sorrell over to the sink. “Yes, that thought
occurred to me. Without self-control and decision,
together, of course, with the education I was given
by my people, I might have sat where this man sits
and he might have been about to take me to the
cells. Strange, isn’t it?”
“No,” said Sorrell shortly. He could not help
thinking again of the long weeks that Denny lay in
the hospital.
“Why?”
“Just another example of the curious weave of
cause and effect, of the thing which you call chance,
and which I believe to be deliberate as the pattern on
an insect's wing.”
Scorby was silent. He accepted the cup of tea
the rector gave him.
“And was it chance that his brother should
a l so ” The rector broke off. “What we call
chance is only pattern, I truly believe. We hate and
love in others our own qualities. We feel a repulsion
and attraction just as much governed by law as the
negative and positive forces of electricity. And
Tiburon is no more than a dynamo roaring with our
lives.”
Sorrell drank his tea and said, “That’s better.
It must have been lack of tea that made me talkative.”
“I’m glad you were,” Scorby said awkwardly.
“May I come up some other night before I leave?”
“Of course.”
(To be concluded next week.)


SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13.778 075 n o
C. Darvall, General Manager.
MAKE MORE MONEY!
Men or women earn good incomes selling
Gilmour Products.
Highest Quality Essences, Spices, Medicines,
Soap Insecticides, Foods, Ointments, Toilet
Preparations, etc. —NECESSITIES ALWAYS
IN DEMAND —sell to friends and neighbours
—NO RISK —no capital needed —we can finance
you to buy at manufacturer’s low prices—ad-
vertising, sales training, everj'thing supplied—
PROVED SUCCESS—fuII time pays £5 TO
£lO WEEKLY.
Own Your Own Business—
NOTHING MORE PERMANENT—state whether
interested full or part time —send your name
and address —receive illustrated booklet and full
information. Address: The John Gilmour
Coy., Rtd., Dept. Xl3, Corner Parramatta
and Pyrmont Bridge Roads, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
advt
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
"LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 74 hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
fob luxury, speed, comport.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIEP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, arid Branches.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
44K
.Coofe's CfiSl
SFod
AiITCVKISTS <
tew Combined StAlbundMctcr Tares,
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and M otor Fares .
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
i
I
uuA
m
wm
m.
1
■
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
■
US
t A ,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne
By the Author of “The Swayne Family”:-
THE BOSS.
BY VANCE PALMER
THE living-room behind the store
was a dream of home to Bill
Christie. Padded warmth of the
big easy-chair, cheeriness of the kettle
singing on the hob, cosiness of closed
doors after nights spent in draughty
tents. And there was the friendly purr
of Mag Sharland’s talk as she sat darn-
ing on the other side of the hearth or
bustled about getting coffee and toast
for him before he walked back over the
headland.
A wonderful woman, Mag! She had
made a thumping success of the store by
the waterfront since Sharland had passed
out with pneumonia three years ago, and
never pulled a poor mouth because of
the fight she had had to carry on single-
handed. Now she had been saddled with
new responsibilities. The girl who had
come in the service car that morning
was a niece her brother had fobbed
off on her, and from what Bill had seen
of her it seemed as if she could prove
a handful. That glimpse of her blue,
cheeky eyes and tangled hair as she
popped her head round the door to take
stock of him made him feel that his
own job with young Jim was a compara-
tively easy one.
But nothing in the way of work or
responsibility worried Mag. He liked
the low bubble of her laugh when he
joked about her being a mother by
proxy: liked watching the movements
of her plump, youthful figure as she
sprang up in response to a call from the
girl in the inner bedroom. It would be
heaven to keep on sitting there with his
pipe going and the warmth of Mag’s
presence flowing round him, but he had
to watch the clock warily after the hands
parsed ten.
“Well, I’ll have to be getting a move
on, I suppose.”
Her protest had a pleasant, furry soft-
ness.
“What’s the hurry, Bill? On a holi-
day, aren’t you? Don’t have to stir in
the morning till you feel inclined.”
“No, but young Jim will be wonder-
ing where I’ve got to. Out at the pic-
tures to-night, he is, getting his bob’s
worth. Not very cheerful for him to
come home to an empty tent in the
dark.”
Good-humored mockery shone from
the dark, bird-bright eyes.
“You let that boy run you, Bill. Have
to get leave from him every time you
go out, haven’t you?”
“Nothing of the kind. I brought him
here to give him a good time, though.
He’d had a rough spin.”
“And now he’s giving you one.”
“Oh, well, I let him have his head a
bit. We understand one another, me
and young Jim. Mates. He’s looking
forward to being my offsider when I go
prospecting along the Marutchi River.”
There was disapproval in Mag’s
crooked smile.
“That’s the limit, Bill. A boy like
him —camping out and leading the life
of a man. If you do go you ought to
leave him behind.”
“Behind? Do you think he’d stay?
It’s his idea, this prospecting stunt, not
mine. Young Jim’s the boss.”
“You spoil him, Bill. He ought to
have a mother to look after him —see
that he gets plenty of good food but
not too much of his own way. That’s
the line I mean to take with Ella.”
HE laughed as he took leave of her
and went out through the night’s cool
darkness to the camp beyond the head-
land. A lot of good there was in talk-
ing about the line you meant to take
with a youngster. He’d had a few ideas
himself when he came down from
a long job on the Tableland and found
young Jim running wild in the township,
wagging it from school and knocking
about with boys twice his age.
But his thoughts were chiefly of Mag
as he blundered home through the tea-
tree. A pearl of a woman, that! The
way she worked in the store all day and
yet kept a snug
little home go-
ing ; kept as fresh
as paint, too, with
a joke for every-
one, and just
enough acid in
her talk to remind
you she was a
woman!
They had got
to understand one
another in these
five weeks he had
been camping at the Bay. If
only he hadn’t that uneasy
feeling that the eyes of young
Jim were on him every time
he went near the store!
“Wants to keep a tight hold
on me, the young beggar!
Frightened I’ll be off the deep
end if he lets me out of his sight too
long.”
Glow of a candle shone mistily
through the weathered calico of the
tent. The boy had come home and was
sitting up in his bunk, his flannel shirt
open on his thin chest, a half-smoked
cigarette in his fingers.
“Where’ve you been, dad?”
Sharp, grey eyes bored up at him
from the freckled face. Stripping off his
coat he said with an attempt at casual-
ness :
“Found we were out of eggs for the
morning. I thought I’d slip down to the
store before I turned in.”
“And old Mother Sharland kept you
all the evening. I’ll bet. Gosh! She’d talk
the leg off an iron pot.”
Bill flushed as he sat down to unlace
his boots.
“Old? She’s not old unless I’m pretty
much of a crock myself. And she don’t
talk unless she’s got something to say.
Got her set, haven’t you, son? Scared
she wants to feed you up with cod-liver
oil, eh? How were the pictures?”
“Not too lousy.”
“And they’re having a fresh bill to-
morrow night?”
“None of them’s fresh here. I’ve seen
most of them months ago at Cardinia.”
He sat up and coughed. Stretched out
in the dark, his father listened to him
uneasily.
“You ought to have got rid of that
bark before this, son. Making a bit of
a welter with those fags, aren’t you?”
“No ; I don’t smoke near as much as
I used to.”
“Putting, the peg in, eh? That’s right.
They’re no good to you. Not if you
want to grow and take on a man’s job.”
“I’m all right. Don’t you listen to
anything Mother Sharland says about
me, dad. She’s got a tick.”
LIE turned over on his side, wrapping
** the blankets round him. Sleepless, Bill
lay on his back thinking of the venom
that came into the boy’s voice when Mrs.
Sharland’s name came up, of the cough
that racked him, of the restless energy
in his stunted figure. Young Jim hadn’t
grown like he should have done. It was
cruel to see him when he stripped for
a swim ; the skinny legs, tiny ribbed
drum of a chest, perky head that seemed
too big for the bony shoulders. He him-
self had been twice that size at fourteen.
But what could you do with a boy?
They hadn’t looked after him at
Doherty’s back in the township, merely
pocketed the money for his board and
let him run with the brumbies. Now
there was no holding him when he
wanted his own way, which was most
hours of the twenty-four. Mag Sharland
could have mothered him a bit when
they came down to camp at the head-
land, but he had taken this deadly
scunner against Mag. Poked fun at her
talk about the need for fruit and vege-
tables, jeered at her concern for his
health.
“That muck about proper food! Don’t
let her put it over you, dad. What’s good
enough for you’ll do me.”
He was desperate to be off now,
jogging behind the packhorses along the
bed of the Marutchi River, a man in
his own right. Dumbly Bill cursed him-
self for ever having put the idea into
his head. What a picnic it would be to
have a few more months at the Bay, fish-
ing, getting a job now and then, and slip-
ping down to the store in the evenings.
And there was Mag’s voice opening
up still further vistas:
“Don’t you ever get sick of just knock-
ing around, Bill? A steady tradesman
like you?”
Next morning when they were squat-
ting round the open fire wolfing their
eggs and bacon he said diffidently to
young Jim:
“A lot of building being done round
here these days. I wouldn’t find it hard
to snavel a job.”


mi
No. 163
TUMBA
PRIDE
OF THE
ROAD”
£10(101-
(mounted).
A High-grade Saddle, with
the narowest possible grip
and non-chafing seat.
Freight paid in N.S.W. for cash with
order.
No. 4—HEADSTALL FLYVEIL, with
leather lace veil, fin. 3/6, £in. 4/6.
Post 9d.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Marriage
a/uf Insurance
zx
czx
New responsi-
bility begins
with the happy
union of two
people the
future stretches
before with
changes no
one can foretell. Secure your
wife and family a guaranteed
income—a small regular saving
buys complete protection. Enquire
also about the free hospital benefits
with cessation of premium pay-
ments on permanent disability.
prom&l
GENERAL INSURANCE C? UP
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
W'S
i m
MA
'SSmA
m
mi
mmm
i rt^sa
W
A Banker's Advice
Every client of the Bank of New South Wales, even the
smallest depositor, has the right to consult and seek the
advice of his Bank Manager on any business problem.
Every man desires, at one time or another, to place his
business problems before someone whom he can trust to
respect his confidence and give him unprejudiced advice.
The very fact of talking the problem over helps him to
clarify his ideas and often enables him to decide upon
a course of action.
This is one of the many services which the Bank of New
South Wales provides, free of charge, to all its clients.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
191 A. 1935
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
*
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
m
•&==
VI?
SV -di
=*'
sae
Cool, grey eyes flashed up at him
suspiciously.
“Has she been telling you that?”
“No one’s been telling me. Anyone
looking round can see for himself.
There’ll be a dozen new cottages down
there by the salt-water river before the
year’s out.”
Young Jim took a deep draught of
coffee.
“Nothing in sticking here, dad. It’s
mouldy now the holiday crowd’s gone.
I guess we won’t give it more’n another
week.”
There was decisiveness in his voice, in
the way he sprang up on his spindly
legs and scraped the leavings of his plate
into the fire. He had definitely made up
his mind. No more pottering about for
him, camping there by the seaside like
a Boy Scout or a youngster on holiday.
It was time to get out into the world.
117 HEN his father had gone off to fish
” for snapper from the rocks he
mooched down to the village, watching
the children trailing off to school, the
service car collecting passengers for its
trip into the railhead. His cap was tilted
back on his head, his small chest mov-
ing like a bellows as he inhaled the
smoke of his cigarette and pumped it
out deliciously through his nostrils.
Fishermen mending their nets on the
green strip near the breakwater looked
over at his weedy, swaggering figure with
a laugh:
“Gripes, there’s a kid for you. Pair
of legs like a chicken and tongue like
a bullocky.”
But their whistling spent itself on
empty air as the boy wandered down to
the inner beach. He had had enough of
their chiacking: he wanted to be alone.
Blue of the still water, white of the gulls’
breasts as they wheeled and dipped,
thresh of the making tide as it washed
silkily in over the coarse sand.
You needed a gun, he was thinking,
when you were out on the track, camp-
ing in the wild country at the head of
the Marutchi River, stowing away by
candlelight the gold that had seemed
only heavy stones when the pick first
uprooted them from the soft clay. A
gun that swung handily from its holster
by the hip, ready to be drawn swiftly
if a gang of claim-jumpers appeared and
took the old man unawares, or some
drunken tough began to make free with
a girl behind the bar (china-blue eyes,
honey-colored hair) in the shanty at the
bottom. ...
“Hey!” he called out suddenly.
“What’re you doing with that boat?”
It was more than the small, flustered
figure struggling to make back to the
beach could answer. She had taken up
the anchor for a joke: the boat was
going out with the tide.
“Hey! ”he called out again. “What’re
you monkeying about like that for?”
Splashing through the shallow water
he waded out till, waist-deep, he had got
a grip of the boat’s stern. Hot, con-
fused eyes met his own eyes’ heat.
“I’m all right. I can look after
myself.”
“Rats! Another half-minute and
you’d have been out in deep water.”
“Well, what odds! I’d have swum in.”
“Drowned yourself most likely.”
“Think you’re the only one around
here that can swim? Why don’t they
leave the paddles in the boats?”
“So’s anyone can use them, eh? Here,
jump out and help me pull it up on the
beach.”
“I might when I’m ready. Don’t think
you can boss me, young Snow.”
She was looking at him challengingly
(china-blue eyes, honey-colored hair),
and something in him weakened as he
stood with his hands on the stern of the
boat, watching her sturdy figure, her
brown, bare legs. About twelve, he
decided, but bigger than he was.
“Where’re you staying?” he flung out
defensively.
“Up at Auntie Mag’s. I only came
down yesterday. Didn’t y’r mother ever
let you go out on the water, young
Snow?”
Stung by the teasing drawl, the cheeky
stare that penetrated him to the bone,
he said with husky resentment:
“Who’re you calling Snow? Think
you’re the cat’s mother, don’t you? I
don’t have to ask anyone when I want
to go out. I’m my own boss.”
And then with a quick glance behind
him he added more civilly:
“If you’re game to go out for a bit
of a pull I could sneak a couple of
paddles now. There’s some under the
boatshed.”
Thrill of surreptitious adventure, of
feminine contact, of seeing reluctant ad-
miration steal into the girl’s eyes as he
sent the boat skimming out into the deep
water! He braced his bare feet against
the thwarts, put all he knew into work-
ing the oars.
THAT evening he was ready to crawl
into his bunk early, and made no
comment when his father said he was
going for a walk along the headland.
There was a quietness about him that
worried Bill. Had he got a touch of
the sun, or was he taking too much out
of himself?
Now that he had pondered on the
matter it seemed a mad idea to let such
a youngster come on the rough trip over
the ranges to the head of the Marutchi.
Long hours in the saddle and only tinned
beef and johnny-cake at the day’s end!
It was young Jim’s driving will that had
jockeyed him into the business. He
couldn’t stand up to him ; that was the
truth.
But Mag was right: what the boy
needed was plenty of good food and not
too much of his own way. If only he
could persuade Jim she wasn’t just an
old hag!
“Still got that idea of going prospect-
ing in your head?” she asked him, dark
eyes reflective in the lamp-glow.
He affected a humorous detachment.
“Well, it’s not my idea. I’d be satis-
fied to settle down here for keeps, and
pick up any building-jobs that came
along. Young Jim’s set on giving the
gold-hunting a fly, though. Talks of
nothing else, day and night.”
She looked impatiently at his big,
humped figure in the easy-chair.
“Oh, Bill, sometimes I could shake you.
Have’nt you got any will of your own?”
Hints of a growing contempt in her
attitude whipped his pride as he walked
home through the tea-tree, came back
to mind when he sat fishing in the sun
on the rocks beneath the headland. The
yeast of rebellion was working in him.
No woman had been able to twit him
about his lack of will once.
But he was more worried about the
change in young Jim. The boy had lost
some of his snap and energy: he was
silent over his meals, showed no interest
in the way the snapper were biting down
at the rocks, sneaked off alone in the
mornings and was out all day. It was
hard to work up any excitement in him,
even by talk of breaking camp at the
week’s end.
“What’s the matter, son? Going cold
on it?”
Young Jim’s eyes glanced at him
guardedly, flickered away again.
“No. Who said I was going cold.
I’m ready when you are.”
There was a touch of resentment in
the breaking voice, in the clouded face.
What had come over the youngster?
Light dawned on him one evening
when young Jim failed to come home
for his tea. Bill hurried over his meal
quickly and slipped off down to the
waterfront, questioning the fishermen,
the boys squatting by their lanterns with
lines out for flathead. But in the living-
room behind the store he found him at
last, bending over a draughtboard in the
lamp-glow, his cropped head so close io
the fair, tangled one opposite that they
nearly touched.
“I thought you wouldn’t mind his
staying for a meal,” said Mag with a
twinkle. “They didn’t come home till
late. They were catching soldier-crabs
on the sandbank.”
Dark eyes rested on his in humorous
understanding. So that was how things
were! Bill felt power and authority
flow back into him, restoring his will,
giving him back his grip on things. He
could hardly help chuckling to himself
as, later on, he ploughed back to the
headland with the boy in the dark. When
they had both undressed and were lying
in their bunks he said cheerfully:
<<ll7 ELL, stakes up in the morning, eh,
son? First stage on the jour-
ney to the rainbow’s end.”
There was a long, uneasy silence. At
last the boy said:
“Who told you there was gold on the
Marutchi, dad?”
“I dunno. Lots of fellows have gone
there hunting for it.”
“Just hunting for it?”
“It’s the fun of the chase that counts.
Living hard, keeping your belt tight
over an empty belly. We’ll sling our
things together before daylight.”
“Fat lot of fun looking for something
that’s not there.”
“Oh, well; if a man can’t find another
j0b”....
Another long silence. Bill was almost
afraid the boy had gone to sleep. At
last an uncertain voice came from the
bedclothes of the other bunk:
“What about all that building you said
they were doing?”
Bill hesitated.
“It’s an idea, son. If you’re keen on
staying here I might look around.”
Victory! He knew he was well in
the saddle now, and that nothing could
put him out again. That living-room
behind the store! They would get along
well together, he and Mag.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
If we could
only tell YOU
What WE know
about our
customers’ results
THEN . . .
Everyone with
Goods to Sell
would “be in”
“The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd., North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludaatf
Hill. E.C.4.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; R. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T+U SATUR.D
tV-ENING
-/j- A;C*
Launceston,
and
on the North-East,
Is published and circulates
reaches the principal towns
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in “The Saturday Evening Express”
for the Sunday readers.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
• experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Westralia’s
Happy Station
On its new power of 1000
watts is a welcome guest
in every Western radio
home. A sales medium for
every advertiser in Aus-
tralia.
czx
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
He was burnt fiercely red with that hot, still
crossing, when the oars had cut furrows into a silken,
smooth surface that seemed unending ; his thin shirt
clung—she saw the great muscles move under it; he
was unbeautiful and hot, and moved by a purpose
stronger than any weak resistance she could pit against
him. He looked her full in the eyes ; and she, swayed
as always when men were direct and dominant, let a
little smile falter on her lips. But her eyes hid some-
thing of fear of him. He did not touch the hand that
fluttered out.
“Well, Elena,” he said ; “it’s the last time I’ll ask,
my girl. Will you marry me or not? By God, it’s
the last time. I’ll be no woman’s plaything— not even
yours. Will you marry me and come back to Ruvia?”
“Oh!” she said. “Not yet, not yet! Next time
you come ... I promise” . . .
“No,” he said. “It’s this time or no time. You’ve
put me off too long. I’ll wait no longer. What do
you say?”
He was closer. She drew back a little, but this
direct asking did more than the eager anxiety to
please her. She knew well enough he would ask no
more. It was hers to decide.
“Yes . . . oh, yes!” she said in a hurry.
He did not touch her, but she saw the passion
in his eyes. They walked slowly up to the house,
where her mother stood looking out from the veran-
dah with placid eyes. She looked like a wooden
woman, her daughter thought with an unwonted flight
of fancy. Immobile, unable to help one decide or
not, a wooden woman, stained red with sunset, staring
out with blank eyes.
“Come in, Mr. Laurence ; come in,” her mother
said in her slow, careful English. Her eyes were
alive then when they looked at Elena.
That night the magistrate married them ; and on
Monday Elena Laurence went back with her husband
to Ruvia. They went well before dawn to escape the
heat, which in that calm would be almost unbearable
on the still waters.
Chapter 11.
THE world —the small intense world he ruled —
went well with Laurence. He and Elena had been
married more than a year, and he was still
ardently in love with her—a little to his own half-
conscious wonder and satisfaction. In that burning
time before her winning the dogged determination
and passion of his wooing had left small time for
logical thought. One thought alone had obsessed
him —that of young Elena, beautiful and desired
by other men as well as himself. He knew that she
attracted men as inevitably as flame the dazzled moth.
He was alternately pleased and angered when he saw
the light of admiration waken in the eyes of men
at sight of his handsome wife.
He knew that Peter Harley had been passionately
in love with her. But he had never for a moment
counted the boy as a rival. The thought would have
amused him. Peter was merely a tempestuous boy,
and he, James Laurence, was a man bent on his
desire —the possession of the enchanting, capricious
girl. She must be his and no other’s. And he had
won her! He had succeeded in that as he would
succeed in his other far-reaching projects the future
would see fulfilled. But it was strange —he admitted
that amazedly—that he should still be so ardently
Elena’s lover when other women in the past had
meant so little ultimately to him, however they may
have stirred his senses in the brief time of their
sway. He had thought lightly of women as soft,
pleasurable, irrational creatures, divided sharply into
two classes —the desirable and those whom men had
ceased to desire or had never desired at all.
He had wondered vaguely if he would ever tire
of Elena —if such urgent love as his would outwear
the years. But he had had to have her —he remem-
bered yet with a great rush of emotion that yielding
of hers that was like the quietening of a caught bird,
passive at last between the strong hands that held it.
She had been beautiful to him in that sudden sub-
mission. But he was beginning to be vaguely aware
that something in Elena had never wholly yielded to
him.
He wanted all of her. He had thought her mind
and soul to be attained as easily as her beautiful
young body, but, beyond her light caprices, her little
sullennesses, her sudden storms of anger, that hidden
something in her eluded him. It was as if her soul
retreated into a dark forest where he could not
follow in pursuit of its own secret desires. Looking
at her at times when she, half-sunk in reverie, did not
observe, he became slowly, certainly, aware that she
had thoughts she kept apart and secret. Wifehood
and household concerns were not enough for a
woman, it seemed, as he had thought they were and
should be. And Ruvia, which was to him so lovely in
itself alone, was to her nothing more than a valuable
estate —nothing more nor less. To him it was his
stake in the young country ; he looked into the dim
future and saw his descendants still holding it and
carrying proudly on the traditions he was beginning.
He tried to share with Elena his soaring dreams —
impart to her something of what the lovely island
meant to him. But she couldn’t thrill to it; she looked
blankly at him with lovely, uncomprehending eyes. Yet
without effort she was setting upon the Ruvia that still
held him lord and captive her own impression, as
though, if she cared, she could make the place no
more than a background to her golden youth. Deep
in him, so deep that he was barely conscious of it,
this irked him. Ruvia was his, and his only : even
his best beloved must not tamper lightly with that
precious possession. Well and good if she acquiesced
in and furthered his projects; he alone was sole
arbiter of all that concerned Ruvia.
Certainly life had become more complicated since
Elena had become his wife. She was too young for
his hard middle age, he knew ; she fretted sometimes
for the gaieties she had enjoyed in Auckland and
Levuka. She had danced light-heartedly past many
a gay midnight before fate brought her into his arms.
“I’m only young,” she cried out impatiently once.
“You shouldn’t have rushed me into marriage. Why
should I have to settle down so soon —minding your
children? One’s only young once.”
“What do you want, child?” he asked, half-
amused, half-vexed. “A house in Levuka? Tea-
parties? Scandals?”
“Oh, Jim —if you would!” The vivid face that
had been petulant flashed into smiles. “I’m lonely—
sometimes —even though you are so good to me.”
He frowned.
“I was joking! You couldn’t live in Levuka.”
Her face clouded ; she looked like a disappointed
child.
“I only meant for holidays!” she said wistfully.
“Not always, of course, Jim.”
“No, my girl,” he said decidedly ; “you’re too
precious to me. Trust you in Levuka alone? Not I!
But we’ll have to have some gaiety here to brighten
you, my love’. Ird.”
She suddenly veered away from the subject.
“What would you do, Jim, if I did” she
asked mischievously, as if she knew he knew what
had been her unspoken thought.
“If you did what?” he said, puzzled at the quick
change of mood.
“Fell in love with another man —ran away with
him.”
His face sobered her.
“Of course, I’m only in fun!” she cried. “But
—what would you do?”
“Kill the man —if I laid hands on him,” he said
fiercely. “And I’d be done with you, too, Elena.
But don’t talk nonsense. I don’t like it.”
She laughed deliciously, and trailed away to put
up her dark hair that had hung loose to her waist
to dry after its washing in perfumed water.
Laughter and women’s voices were in the house
of Laurence now. Elena had brought with her a
round-faced Valoa girl of eighteen, Tamari by name,
as her personal attendant. Tamari had bold, fine eyes
and pouting, soft lips. She was much in her mistress’s
counsels ; they laughed and chatted together more as
equals than as mistress and maid.
That was the trouble with old Lavinia, too.
Laurence, glooming in the background, couldn’t quite
put his finger on it, but there was an indefinable
something in the woman’s manner towards his wife
that irritated him —it savored too much of equality.
“You and I, my pretty lady,” said old Lavinia’s sar-
donic eyes, “are too close. I know you—and your
folk before you. I know you well enough.”
A damned old harridan, Lavinia, who needed
putting in her place. She was necessary in that house-
hold, and knew it; it had been tacitly agreed that she
was to look after Ruve. She did it, too, more effi-
ciently and tenderly than any other would have. She
had her place. But she presumed on it, thought
Laurence angrily. Elena ought to put her foot down.
But Elena was too placating to the grizzled old dame
—as if she were half-afraid of her. Damn it all,
he’d tell her himself; his wife must have the
respect proper to her station.
“She should at least speak respectfully to you,”
he said, glowering, once. “You are my wife. You
are not Elena to that black hag. You are the
marama.”
“Oh, that; that’s nothing,” replied Elena easily.
“She has known me so long—all my life, Jim.”
“Well, she’ll speak to you in a proper manner.
I’ll see to it.”
Little things like that absurdly irritated him. He
spoke to Lavinia. She stood by the kitchen door,
gaunt, capable, in her long blue wrapper, waiting for
the hot milk she always made her charge drink at
eleven. She was talking to Tamari, who had been
playfully bantering the cook-boy. He caught the
name Elena and a guttural chuckle.
He paused in front of her. Lavinia looked calmly
at him.
“You are not to use the name of your mistress
so freely,” he said in the Fijian he already spoke
fairly well. “It is not seemly, and I forbid it.”
Lavinia’s sardonic eyes considered him, but she
was outwardly all deference.
“It is good, saka,” she said amiably.
But thereafter even marama on her lips savored
subtly of mockery.
{To be continued next week.)


Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
366 DAYS OF PROGRESS
IN 1936
AS in 1935, so in 1936, life will be
xA surging around us, vivid, exciting,
full of opportunities for those who start
each of its 366 days with freshness of
outlook, renewed mental vigour and
unabated courage to try. These are the
Pelmanists by training or the Pelmanists
by nature. To them we say, "‘Keep
going, and good luck.”
To those who shrink from the conflict,
who stand aside from the stream of
activity and let opportunity pass them
by, or who, with courage and good-
will enough, still dissipate their energy
and mishandle their opportunities, we
say that Pelmanism is a proved means
by which they can strengthen their
determination, clarify their mental out-
look and increase their powers of con-
centration and judgment so that they
will have power to select, and use
properly, the right opportunities as they
come along.
Pelmanism is the Science of Living, of
making every day a full day, a day of
enterprise and satisfaction. It deals with
fundamental personal attributes and
qualities which, when developed, establish
mental and physical health, making life
pleasant, harmonious and successful.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in
every normal man or woman. The most
important are
Self-Confidence, Judgment,
Concentration, Will-Power,
Decisiveness, Tact,
Self-Control, Initiative
and a Good Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism is scientific- training of Mind,
Memory and Personality. It is the most
successful instrument of adult education
and training, not only in the British
Empire, but throughout the world; its
record of achievement is astounding.
Thousands of students of Pelmanism
have expressed themselves in terms similar
to the following:-
A Doctor writes: “If lam asked the one great
thing that Pelmanism has taught me I should
say it was the way it has shown me how to
observe instead of merely seeing. That alone
is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get a
definite aiin and have abolished drifting. I
feel happier and better in myself. I can con-
centrate much better. I am losing my horrible
self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “I am forming good
habits and choking bad habits. I have more
self-control and self-reliance. I enjoy life
more. I feel better physically and mentally.
I am easier to live with. I do not brood."
A Nurse writes: “Fits of Depression are far
less frequent, and these are soon overcome.
Certainly much happier. My superintendent
remarked that I was not nearly so nervous as
I was when she saw me twelve months ago.”
A Musician w-rites: “I have a brighter out-
look on life and am not as apt to become
easily depressed as formerly. I realise my
aim and have more self-confidence in my work.
I find much more to interest me now, and
can concentrate better.”
A Shorthand Typist wirtes: “I have a re-
newed and bright outlook on life and Depres-
sion is now a thing of the past. I .have energy
enough for tw’o and the wall to Carry out to
the finish that which I pursue.”
A Draughtsman w’rites: “When I started the
Course I was suffering from severe worries. I
have completely got over these. The lesson on
‘Aim and Purpose’ has been of great help.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “Instead of think-
ing that Psychology w-as something for high-
brows to dabble in I now gratefully realise
that without a sound knowledge of the prin-
ciples as set out by the Pelman Institute w'e
cannot hope to make the best of ourselves. I
myself have overcome Shyness, lack of Confi-
dence, Mind-Wandering, etc. I am now' in a
state of mental balance which has to be pos-
sessed to realise liow invaluable it is.”
A Teacher w'rites: “Increase in my powers of
Concentration and Memory. Increase in Self-
Confidence. Greater interest in people and in
my surroundings.”
A Bank Officer w'rites: “Self-Consciousness
has given place to Self-Confidence. I am able
to work harder and concentrate more. I have
gained more than money can buy—am much
happier in my life.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed confi-
dence in myself and a broader outlook on life.
My life has changed from a listless, drifting
one to one of purpose. I now have a mental
and bodily health I did not have before, and
I have found something which money could
not buy, namely, a perfect joy and happiness
in living.”
A Personal Message
Mr. W. J. Ennever,
Founder of the Pelman Institute.
.
m
Photo., Kay Vaughan.
“It is because no system in the
world but Pelmanism can so surely,
so speedily bring out the strong
points of your character, and build
up those possibilities which exist
in everybody’s mental equipment,
that I ask readers to find out more
about Pelmanism. If any of my
readers had occupied my position
during the last forty years since
Pelmanism was first brought to the
notice of the world, and had seen
the lives of students transformed
from mediocrity into useful, suc-
cessful careers through Pelmanism,
they would not for one moment
doubt the incalculable value of this
course of training.’’
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and will,
so are his personal efficiency and his
standing with his fellows. If these habits
are bad he will be ineffective personally;
if they are good he will be strong, happy
and* successful.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS:
Liege, 1930. Geneva, 1933.
Nancy, 1933. Paris, 1933.
In “The Efficient Mind” you will find
a full explanation of the Pelman Course
and much interesting information on the
subject of Mental Training. This book
will be sent you free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1. Write for
it to-day, and it will be in your hands by
return of post. All correspondence is
regarded as confidential. "We have no
outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of
40 years’ standing. Its headquarters are in London.
The Melbourne Branch Institute was established 28 years ago.
The Pelman System is taught by Post. Full particulars
are sent free and post free without obligation., Fill in and
cut out the form alongside and send it to the Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Call if you can.
“Efficient
Mind,”
Please.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Name
Address
427
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
n
O \> e & e tl
° rt -^ e # G e ° v^
*&*■ vy*
0
<v
0-
\V
jrf V'^V*
<*
jPVS
t>^a\ V& -a^
A e ' CV A C^
<F
0°
r
A
‘ 4 '“-W>


am mm ml
j=-
i\rey<
on one of them 9
3$
Aft’?
\<Wl
m
■r<
Mr.- 0
mfM
Wzk)
mM
Llr
Q
m
><
i
%} \
<#
“Having suffered for years with kidney trouble
and always with dreadful backache, and trying
so many remedies without success, I was advised
to try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. They are really
wonderful, and have completely cured me of a
very long-standing trouble.”
Mrs. O. M. MEARES,
Augusta Street, Enmore, N.S.W.
“For twelve months I suffered with severe back-
ache, headaches and cold night sweats, but since
taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills these troubles
have completely left me, and I feel greatly
benefited.”
Mrs. R. FERGUSON,
Swanson Street, Erskineville, N.S.W.
Uric Acid in excess is recog-
nised as the prime cause of
Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Kidney and Bladder
Troubles, etc.
Take 2 M in Pills
to-night - you’ll feel
better to-morrow.
c
It is therefore quite obvious
that the only way to regain
good health is to assist the
Kidneys to dispel all excess
Uric Acid from the system.
The quickest, safest and
surest way of doing this is by
taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
the Kidney Remedy which has
achieved great success through-
out Australia during the past
25 years.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
will correct any temporary dis-
order of the Kidneys, and
assist them in quickly eliminat-
ing all excess Uric Acid from
the bloodstreams.
Anyone can take Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, as they
contain no harmful ingredients,
and cannot help but do you
good. They will bring to you
the same relief that they have
brought to thousands of one-
time sufferers o f Kidney
Troubles, etc.
LUMBAGO
DS
">VV
27 Pills 1/9- IMMENSE SALES -60 Pills 2/9
zxc
zxc
zxc
