

Pill
m
i : iii
lllllil
m ?
> P
ViPP "•■•■ > '■
, w«
•■'i***v
-
', '.'V - / ' v<
s&
AW
*•> •'•
> : ~%v
A
Pi
?m
w*
i 5SS
<S»
i / !
.
iiw
KS8
wM&
:
i&£
Time ♦ ♦ ♦
has endorsed
the wisdom,
of their
youth ♦..
Happiness and contentment is the priceless legacy of
this couple’s wisdom. No financial worries cloud the
security of their outlook, for here is a peace of mind
based on the solid foundations of financial indepen-
dence.
You too, can look forward to that freedom from care
which only financial independence can give.
Skillfully planned investment of even the most modest
saving will, as the years roll by, bear fruit in ever
increased results.
The science of sound investment, calls for highly
specialised knowledge of many phases of finance, so
that regular dividends and appreciation of capital
will be a natural sequence, Expert guidance is an
essential to successful investment,
Hamiltons (A/'sia) Ltd., offer an unrivalled financial
and investment service, enabling investors, whether
large or small, to obtain better results with utmost
possible security.
Write for particulars of the advice service available
free on application.
MaroiltOUS (Australasia) limited
Investment and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital ----- £250.000
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING; MARGARET STREET. SYDNEY
'Phones: BW 1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 5752 s.s.)
Branch Office: Commercial Bank Chambers. Beardy St.. Armidafe, N.S.YV. 'Phone: Armidale tjo Box No I*s. Amidale
Metropolitan Building
S 9-91 Queen Street
MELBOURNE
G P O Box 520 J
Commonwealth Building
Queen Street
BRISBANE
G.P O. Box 1017 N
eh
C.M.L. Building
King William Street
ADELAIDE
G.P.O. Box 650 F
Pertk. W A
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Is (( The Bulletin ” Anti-British ?
Vol. 57.—N0. 2955.
Wednesday, September 30, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Hfrnflwritmq
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
CUT HERE ANI) MAIU _
Please send without obligation, your New Free
IGpp. Illustrated Pehmasship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
_ ? recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henr y Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son
H. K. Prior has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third years competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6 1937
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial"
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
PENTON’S
“INHERITORS”
The Austra-
lian novel has
one difficulty
to face which
the novels of
ail other countries are reprieved from ; :
hiust first become a dynamic before
can become an aesthetic. In other wore
the material of the novel must be com
pacted somehow into synthetic for
before it can become material for tl
novel.
In older countries —or at least cou
tries with a national culture —traditio
by the written word has already done th;
initial work. The tradition accepts
understood that its people and its pro
lems are a condition of tradition, whic
is more or less true. Its genesis has bee
analysed, its reaction to environmen
defined, its varieties of type and person
ality projected again and again. By thi
peculiar reaction between a process anc
its definition, a process is created.
For that reason it is a commonplac
to-day that life is only the material fo
art, since life can have no reality as
fact till it has been defined as an image
The problem is physiological as well <
moral, for apparently a mental image
the only thing that can be returned t
life as mental substance. I daresay w
shall know more about that process whe
the biologists have established thei
diagnosis that the creation of a brain ce
is by its assimilation of a form image.
Consciousness in an individual is hi
own affair —he may draw it from whal
ever source he pleases; but conscious-
ness in a people can come only from a
imagery excited by contact with them and
the country they live in, and retortec
on them by art. And this procedure mus
be performed on the spot, under th
people’s eyes, ears and noses, and very
often to their excessive annoyance, too
Birth pangs are never a very pleasing
process.
It is quite clear that someone mus
tackle this difficult job of compacting the
mass material of Australian life into
form that will make Australians con
scious of their own peculiar isolation in
space. And it has to be done by the
novel, since the novel has the only metier
which can reach consciousness by its own
hieroglyphic, the written word. It is
required, if not desired, that Australia
should have revealed to it that inexorable
law of Nemesis, which completes its
cycle every four generations, giving
people its choice of self-creation or self-
destruction by resistance or submission to
the principle of its genesis.
It might have seemed that Henry
Handel Richardson’s novel The Fortunes
of Richard Mahony had all the essentials
for performing this clinical operation on
the national ego, but that work has hardly
touched Australian consciousness. It
is too remote; it was' written in safety;
the author was secure from the essential
hatred of the national ego when she
wrote it; and, moreover, it has for its
central character a man who resists con-
tact with the country and its people and
is destroyed by them.
It seems to me that in Landtakers and
Inheritors Brian Penton has done that
which of necessity had to be done. It
is not that in these novels he has covered
a vast amount of factual material and
built up a visual picture of its historical
action ; he has also gone to the core of
its moral problem, which can be roughly
headed “The Destructive Parent.”
Those early fathers had to be the sort
of men they were or they would never
have beaten this country’s physiological
problem. Being the men they were, they
handed on an inevitable psychological
problem to their children.
We can trace all the moral inertia of
the Australian to-day—his subjection to
the Politician and the Police, his sub-
mission to any imbecility labelled a
by-law, his obsession over sport (destiny
on the toss of a coin), his acceptance of
opinion made in England—to one source
only, a desire to shelve responsibility for
an act,of will; a submission to a symbol
of Authority—the Parent.
Cabell, as a character in a novel, is
a powerful life-size portrait; visualised
from every angle, touched, tasted, heard
and smelt. In Landtakers he remains a
stark figure of the man of action, the
forerunner, the man who takes the land
and is taken by the land. But as he
merges into a process of life driven into
being by himself (the theme of Inheritors)
he becomes a colossal figure, gathering
into himself all the angers, despairs,
aspirations and frustrations of Australi
to-day.
And this is the singular dynamic re
leased by Brian Penton in his aestheti
of the novel. In each member of th
Cabell family he has subtly imaged
special facet of the national ego. Th
tragic Larry carries the bitterness an
revolt of the second generation Aus
tralian which found an outlet in the clas
wars of the ’seventies, ’eighties anc
’nineties ; a violent and personal conflic
because its rebellious sons were too clos
to their dominant parents. The smu
James is its other facet: submission t
the parent by submission to a socia
order; that middle-class respectabilit
which drives its resentments inwards and
therefore is always the most dangerou
class in any country. In Geoffrey, th
third son, we have Australia prostrate
the parent; the waster, the sport, th
easy-money parasite. In Harriet
One would need to write a lot abou
Harriet to analyse the burgeoning of the
feminine ego from the sterile resource
of an ultra male earth. Those firs
women, the Emma Cabells, were cook
and breeders ; they had no time or oppor
tunity for other functions, but thei
daughters arrived on a social order suffi
ciently stable to dramatise sex conflict.
How they did it has been splendidly
handled in the various other femininities
of Inheritors. But in Harriet, Penton has
done something much more subtle than
the analysis of femininity plus the specia
environment of its epoch. Without mak-
ing any concession to sentimentality he
has invested Harriet with that charm
which, for lack of a better definition, one
can only call a sympathetic transference
of identity between the reader and the
character in fiction. All conscious pro-
posals to achieve this delicate emotional
bridge go wrong, for charm is never
arrived at by a statement of charm. And
Harriet is charming, in spite of, and
therefore because of, her creator’s rejec-
tion of all emotional blandishments in
her service.
The profundity of Inheritors lies in the
long conflict between father and
daughter, interwoven with the vast pat-
tern of a factual earth. These two per-
sonalities, travelling parallel lines of
resistance to each other, end by com-
pleting the content of each other’s ego.
If Penton had let Cabell destroy Harriet
he would have ruined his book, for that
would have devitalised the potent figure
of Cabell. Where two dominants meet
on a conflict of will, resistance must be
equal, or both are rendered futile. But
Harriet and Cabell meet in a final gesture
of equality and understanding, and are
preserved as vital entities on the reader’s
mind.
The technical achievement of Inheri-
tors is astonishing. It weaves the life
stories of half a dozen people into a
panoramic background which covers the
whole industrial, political and social
movement of a generation, and it projects
an army of minor characters all drawn
with psychological insight and physio-
logical clarity.
All this postulates control of a power-
ful prose style. It is a prose based on
the eye; its visibility is always fresh,
colored and definite. It is interesting to
compare the conventional visibility in
The Term of His Natural Life with
the clarified perception of externals -in
Inheritors. But another tradition has
been established in Australia between
those two works: the tradition of plastic
art. It is a queer thing in Fenton, who
has a splendid reaction to music, that he
has very little use for plastic art and sus-
pects artists of being overrated frauds.
Yet his own clarification of eye owes
much to the plastic analysis of Australia,
just as future writers and artists will owe
much to his transference of its image
to the idiom of words.
Once again, it seems clear that Inheri-
tors is the book that had to be written
if Australian consciousness was to arrive
at a compact understanding of its aspira-
tions and frustrations. Superlatives are
dangerous things, and time alone makes
them valid. But if Brian Penton hasn’t
speeded up Australian mentality from
the time factor of a century to the time
it takes to read Inheritors, then books
are merely things to pass the time away
with. Which they are not.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Practical Joke
on Shaw
Frank Scully in
“Esquire” tells an
astonishing story
of the ghosting of
Frank Harris’s
biography of Bernard Shaw, claiming
there is no mystery about who wrote it,
because he did. He thought the expo-
sure of this profitable practical joke on
Shaw would be a little birthday present
(Shaw was 80 on July 26), because
Shaw hates birthday presents -even more
than he hates birthdays, and if the blow
killed him he would have what he
wanted—the chance to die laughing.
The book was dedicated “to Frank
Scully, who goaded me into undertaking
it,” and Scully draws attention to the
significance of the word “undertaking”
instead of “writing.”
Scully says he had a previous try-out'
with Harris in 1929, when he took a
fragment of Harris’s called On the Trail,
stuck a beginning, middle and end to it,
borrowed from the less sexy part of
Harris’s My Life and Loves, which few
had bothered to read, and issued it under
the title of My Reminiscences as.a Cow-
boy, which sold 30,000 copies ana earned
a lot of critical praise.
With that, the idea of doing a bio-
graphy of Shaw looked a good; thing.
Scully s plan was to take an old pen
portrait Harris had made of Shaw in
1918, which had appeared in VoL II of
Contemporary Portraits. This, Scully
argued, could be expanded from 15,000
words to 60-70,000 without mudh effort.
Harris agreed.
Shaw wrote Harris that he didn’t want
him to write the book; that Harris’s
wife could do it better ; that Harris had
made The Man Shakspeare a cross be-
tween Jesus and a sailor, and so on. But
Scully kept urging Harris on, writing
letters for Harris to sign, and saying that
whether Shaw liked it or not the book
was going to be written. On this Shaw
capitulated, to make the best of a bad
job, but during the correspondence made
the slip of writing to the sex-ridden
Harris a pencilled, unrevised note ex-
plaining his own love credo. With this
the book was as good as made.
Lincoln Schuster, of Simon and
Schuster, publishers, was then intrigued
with a 12-page introduction and a few
letters and a clean typed copy of the
Shaw article from Contemporary Por-
traits, which obviously he had not pre-
viously read. Max Schuster was later
interviewed, and cabled his partner Simon
endorsing the project; Gollancz, of
London, was brought in, simultaneous
publication in New York and London
was arranged, and a fee of 7500 dollars
was agreed upon.
Harris and Scully signed a contract on
a basis of 80 per cent, and 20 per cent.,
and they went off to Vittel in the Vosges
Mountains to write the book. Scully
went by train, a 15 hours’ journey,
loaded down with everything written on
Shaw, but Harris as usual went by taxi.
After five days, Harris decided it was
too wet and cold and returned to Nice.
Scully wouldn’t go, but as it rained in
Vittel for six weeks he could do no-
thing but write.
An advance cheque for 2500 dollars
was cabled from New York, but Harris
stuck to all but 39 dollars of it, saying
he had bills to meet. Scully worked
on and sent his stuff to Harris to re-
dictate in his own idiom, but Harris’s
mind was blank, and all he could do
was to finger the 65-page fragment.
“Each time he did it, it was all new to
him.” On returning to Nice, Scully
discovered that all Harris had done was
to send off the 65-page instalment, in
appalling disorder—3o,ooo words, not
5000 of them written since the contract
was signed—label it first instalment, and
collect another 1000 dollars. “He in-
formed the publishers he couldn’t write
any more. Couldn’t they pay him the
balance of the advance and let it go
at" that?” The publishers replied with
a devastating report alleging they had
been let down.
Scully thereupon organised a staff,
went poring over old magazines, dig-
ging out letters, copying them, corre-
sponding in Harris’s name with every-
body from Shaw down, bringing Harris
letters to sign, which he never dictated,
and took charge of the whole show.
Harris was hopeless. Scully went on.
The publishers wanted to have the bio-
graphy authorised, but Shaw warned
them that “Henderson’s Life was author-
ised but Harris’s specially deprecated.”
Scully finally hit on the line “Unauthor-
ised, but written from voluntarily-sup-
plied documents.” He copied all Shaw
letters to Harris from 1915 on and sent
them to Shaw for final editing and
approval.
Scully then set to work and wrote
28,000 words and sent them to the pub-
lishers, who approved them as the first
instalment. He turned out 150,000
words after spending in all fours months
on the job, Harris in the meantime
drooling over his copy of the original 65
pages and plaguing him for the next in-
stalment because he needed money
badly.
The publishers returned the typescript
for cutting, and it was reduced to 65,000
words. Scully then thought the time
opportune to go after a better division
of the spoils, and got his percentage up
to 30. That was the last interview Scully
had with Harris. While Scully, in hos-
pital in Paris, was correcting the proofs,
Harris died at 76—Aug. 26, 1931.
Shaw asked to see the book through
the press, and sent £5O as a loan to the
widow. (His publicity agents made it
£250 and a gift.)
Then a paragraph appeared in
“Variety” stating that, as Harris was
dead, Scully alone remained as author.
Mrs. Harris telegrammed, and rushed to
Paris and to London denying this, and
o Continued on page 4.)


5^
I \ s&sss
■
CO
■i
•hi -
■!,
*
I
;*c/\
:j
%
LUI
/
i:
//;
m
wm
\
A
I
' \
v\
\\
A
A
A
A
\0
A
Tr
\ \
A
.—AV
A
Men’s Mercery-
Ground. Floor, George
Street, Freight paid
to cdl railway stations
in N.S.W. and sea-
ports in the Com-
monwealth.
'Hordura" Golf
Shirts
Smart, ser-
vic e a b 1 e
bus i n'e s.s
shirts. Our
own make,
in dressy Broadcloth, with
two matching collars and
double cuffs. Blue, Grey
or - Brown Checks and
.Stripes. I4in. to 19in.
neck. Price, ea. 10/6
L Three lor 30/-.
British Poplin
Golf Shirts
Quality at a
low price is
what you get
in these Goll
Shirts. Well-
8 ii
fitting style in sturdy
British Poplin. Double
cuffs and two matching
collars. Blue or Grey
stripes. Sizes Min. to 18in.
neck,
k Price
6/11
Men's Tunic
Shirts
These
shirts are
cool and
c omfortable
for summer.
8e
Spun Silk Rayon or
British Poplin with
collar attached and
single button cuffs. Neat
stripes in Blue and Grey
tones. 14 tc 18 inch
neck.
Price, each 8/6
“Truth in Advertising ” — Always.
‘The Senior Store” *■&&**> While / Live I’ll Grow’
3
\
X
HOSE FROM
# FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
No more limp collars, faded shirts, crushed, worn
ties or shrunken hose! Here are your future shirts,
ties and hose. Snappily designed, cleverly made,
reasonably priced . . with quite a crisp, distinctive
air about them . . .an unobtrusive “class.” So why
shouldn’t you buy? Call and examine them or
mail your order with confidence. You’ll be
pleased with the result.
A
mm
msm
■■
“Resista-Crease” Ties Smart and New
A.—-Ties you will buy for style, quality and value. Time-
saving too, for, being crease-resisting, they need no press-
ing. A wide range of new and exclusive designs in Blue,
Grey, Brown and Navy tones. Price, each, 2/11; 3 for 8/3.
2/m
Horrockses’ Washable English Weave Tie
B.—Style is built into every fibre of these smart ties. They
are remarkable value for 1/11. Horrockses’ crease-resisting
weave that is washable. New Blue tones.
Price, each . 1/11; 3 for 5/6
1/11
“Hordura” All Wool Cashmere Half Hose
You 11 be perfectly satisfied with the appearance, fit and
durability of “Hordura” Fancy Half Hose. Quality Half
Hose in Wool Cashmere, sturdy enough to stand the
test in wash and wear. Blue, Grey, Fawn, Brown, Navy.
2/n
New designs.
Prices, pair .
Sizes
Oin.
to
2/11
1 2 in. and 1 3in.
3/6


begging .Scully to deny it as it would
spoil the sale of the book and ruin
Harris’s “honor.” Scully refused.
Meanwhile Shaw revised the proofs,
but instead of adding footnotes put his
corrections into the text. When Shaw
wrote his inevitable postscript he exon-
erated Harris from reading Henderson's
biography, whereas Henderson himself
later counted 113 filchings from it.
“And,” says Scully, “Henderson was
right.” Harris had copied them with-
out tagging them, and Scully had used
them believing them to be Harris’s.
The book sold 21,000 copies in London
on the first day, and was a best-seller in
New York within a fortnight, but in a
year the four-dollar book could be
bought on the remainder counters for 99
cents.
A year later Shaw left London on a
world tour, and Scully met him at Nice.
Shaw asked him who did what on the
book. “Well,” said Scully, “I did 76
per cent, of it, you 22 per cent, and
Harris 2 per cent.”
“I don’t know how you had the auda-
city to do it,” said Shaw. “Harris knew
very little of my life and you didn't
know any. I will say this for the book.
The facts are straight.”
Shaw walked into the next compart-
ment of the train and they met Mrs.
Shaw. She slammed the door in Scully’s
face, but later came back and apologised.
She had apparently found that Scully
had written her husband’s biography.
T. D. MUTCH.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
A MESSAGE FROM MARS
f T is unlikely that Education Before
» Verdun, by Arnold Zweig (Martin
Seeker; Robertson and Mullins; 95.),
will be as widely read as its predecessor,
The Case of Sergeant Grischa. It is an
equally good novel in its own way, but
lacks what its predecessor possessed, a
central character in whose experiences
the reader can become sympathetically
interested. It is a long, slow-moving
book, and is discursive rather than
dramatic, unless that term can be applied
to a work whose aim is to show the
mills of war slowly grinding the beliefs
of men into unbelief. - The narrative
takes its spring from an injustice done
to Sergeant Cristoph Kroysing. He dis-
covers that rations needed by the men
are being illicitly converted to the use
of their superiors. With naive faith in
a God of Abstract Justice —quartered
apparently among the higher command
—he tries to forward a complaint. It is
sidetracked ; he finds himself confronted
with a counter-charge of conduct sub-
versive of discipline and, pending court-
martial, is sent to a forward area and
left there without being relieved until,
as is inevitable, he is killed. The reper-
cussions of the incident involve Private
Bertin, of the A.S.C. —a lad of the same
kidney as the deceased—who is not wise
enough to let the matter drop ; Kroy-
sing’s brother, Lieutenant Eberhard Kroy-
sing, of the Engineers, who plots ven-
geance for Cristoph’s death ; Pahl and
several other privates whose observa-
tions have reduced them to complete
cynicism; Lochner, a padre, who does
his best to reconcile the dual roles of
man of God and man of the world ;
Military Judge-Advocate Mertins, who
entered the war in absolute belief in the
honor of his Fatherland, and who com-
mits suicide in his ultimate disillusion-
ment ; and Posnanski, his equally disillu-
sioned but tougher-fibred successor.
Matters dealt with incidentally are the
methods by which Iron Crosses earned
by subordinates were hung on the chests
of superiors, the incompetence of the
higher command, the cowardliness of
back-area heroes, the progress of the
battle of Verdun —the guns can be heard
booming throughout the story —and
man’s inhumanity to man in general.
Eberhard —a lean wolf —plots to get
the life of the man most responsible for
his brother’s death by means similar to
that by which it was brought about, and
1 his man plots the death of Bertin, who
wasn’t content to let sleeping dogs lie.
Both fail ; Kroysing through a mishap
that costs him his own life and the other,
not because justice prevails, but because
Kroysing receives the favor of a nurse
who is the temporary fancy of the
Crown Prince, and who uses her influ-
ence with him to have Bertin transferred
to another corps.
The object of the book appears to be
to show the pattern of life repeating itself
in minor and major issues simultaneously,
thus making the image of war doubly
repellent. It is obviously anti-war propa-
ganda, and seems, like so many of its
kind, to be ineffectual in so far as it
treats war as a temporary human aber-
ration, overlooking the possibilities that
the war and the peace are each the pro-
duct of the other, that the incidents of
war, on both the personal and national
plane, have their exact counterpart in
peace, lacking only the former’s violent
dramatisation, that the cry, “Stop the
War!” might reasonably be countered
with another: • “.Stop the Peace!” and
that what may be needed is an adjust-
ment to the basis of social life so that
human virtues can be exercised for
humane ends. Perhaps Zweig’s mind is
no stranger to these reflections, but his
book stops short of developing them.
* * * *
FOOTLOOSE
It will help Gone Nomad, by Archer
Russell (Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.),
a tale of 30 years’ wandering in Aus-
tralia and Africa, to explain that the first
few chapters are not to be taken as typi-
cal of the whole. In them he is dealing,
in the main, with what has previously
been dealt with by others and—-a serious
handicap in the circumstances—is hesi-
tating on the brink of his subject; he
is treating the past remotely and, in his
self-conscious application to his task,
sprinkling his pages with worn cliches.
However, this is not for long. He takes
the plunge, forgets himself in his work,
really goes back to live again in the
past. The narrative at once gains in
freshness and the prose in vitality.
Born in Adelaide with itchy feet
Archer Russell in early youth set out to
seek a life of adventure. He made a
break for the bush, and there followed
for him some years of drifting through
the far outback, boundary riding, brumby
trapping, dingo baiting, shearing, opal
gouging—there is a fine chapter about
his experiences on the White Cliffs field
—and steamboating down the western
rivers, all of which he interestingly re-
cords together with his personal obser-
vations of the ways of domestic animals,'
the aborigines and wild nature. Then he
went to Africa, wandered inland from
Durban and at length landed a job as
trader for a big company operating on
the Congo-Zambesi Divide. He was
warned against the district by South
African stay-at-homes, but followed his
star and was rewarded with many un-
usual experiences. His tale is one of
dealing with natives, game shooting-
including exciting encounters with
leopards, pythons, hippos, and elephants
—exploration of the jungle tracks, specu-
lations in rubber as an independent
trader, diamond-mining in Mashonaland,
and with the standard of manliness ex-
pected of the white man by the black.
He comments as well as relates. He
has something to say about the quali-
ties required by professional elephant-
hunters, the reasons for the influx of
mixed nationals following the building
of the railway to Elizabethville —in which
he occupied the first building erected—
meditates on the personalities of men
who comprise “the legion that never was
listed,” and speculates archiaeologically
on the ruins of an ancient city. He
describes the rise of black nationalism
and tells how news of the defeat in
America of a world-famous white pugi-
list by a negro reached him in Central
Africa only 14 hours after the event.
From the coast it was relayed through
the jungle by the beating of native drums.
Leaving the Congo he travelled up the
east coast to Aden, still adventuring,
and, following the outbreak of war, came
home to enlist. This is the plain un-
varnished tale of one of those Austra-
lians who are met in all sorts of out-of-
the-way corners between the poles. The
end of his book is reached with regret.
* # * *
FORBIDDEN BLOSSOMS
Joanna Cannan, author of Frightened
A ngels (GoWdncz ■, Angus and Robert-
son; 7s. 6d.), doesn’t plough deep, but
she turns a fairly straight furrow and
leaves the paddock tidy behind her. Her
story has to do with John Marlow, who
wanted to be a botanist, a collector of
wildflowers in remote parts of the earth,
but who, through accepting responsibil-
ity for a sister and her idiot son, finds
himself sentenced for life to teaching in
a minor public school, a career for which
he is unfitted, as he can’t handle boys. A
sense of failure and of sex frustration
brings about an eruption in early
middle age. “I'll never get the work
I’m cut out for. By the time I can
afford to look a woman in the face I’ll
be old and ashamed of my body, and
before I can afford to stand a man a
drink I’ll be too embittered to make
friends.” He has an affair with the wife
of another teacher, Attenborough, a
sports master, a dominant character, a
popular figure, an apostle of “Play the
Game,” who bullies his wife for stut-
tering. “S-sorry, H-harry.”
Attenborough catches them. He doesn't
care much, but it gives him a chance
to grind a heel on Marlow, whom he re-
gards as a worm. Marlow, suddenly re-
membering his responsibilities, crawls.
He pleads with Attenborough, and when
he is jeered at brings a cricket bat down
on Attenborough’s head. The death of
the sports master is. lamented on all
hands, and this, combined with his
anxieties, moves Marlow to confess.
He’ll let them see that he “was a man
for once in his life and as good a man
as Attenborough.” The amusing thing
—from the reader’s viewpoint—is that
he is not believed. The police, who have
treated him as one of several suspects,
have established a watertight alibi for
him. Others to whom he confesses, to
his fury, are incredulous. “You’re not
the man for that, my dear fellow! ” They
tell him he needs a holiday.
In the meantime the idiot has died
and the sister, who couldn’t be parted
from him in life, thus setting Marlow
free to seek life in his own way, sure
that the boy is now being “cared for in
heaven,” is happily contemplating an-
other venture into matrimony. Marlow
renounces his love for Alison. “A man
can’t marry the widow of a man he has
murdered.” She, not hearing from him,
and not realising the reason for his
silence, departs for the Riviera, a little
sore of heart, but soon enters into an
interesting friendship with a French
painter. Marlow goes to the Cornish
coast to brood, and is killed through fall-
ing from a cliff while climbing down to
gather an unusual wildflower.
The weak points of the story are that
the first principles of light romance
appear to have been consulted in making
the wife whom Attenborough bullies a
pretty woman with a fetching stutter and
that, as far as can be gathered from the
book, Marlow, after Attenborough’s dis-
covery, has no thought for Alison, only
for his other responsibilities. “A word
to the headmaster from Attenborough
and he would be out of a job with no
chance of getting another.” His forget-
fulness of the woman is possible, but not
made to seem probable. The author
might have set her plough a little deeper
just there. However, she exhibits through-
out a sense of the ironic, and that the
flower for which Marlow lost his life
should have been really only a twist of
yellow paper off a caramel is quite a neat
notion.
* >;■
ENGLAND TO-MORROW
Coming after Sinclair Lewis’s It Can’t
Happen Here any study of a democratic
State under imagined Fascist rule needs
to be uncommonly well done to be of
interest. In the Second Year, by Storm
Jameson (Cassell; Dymock’s, 7s. 6d.),
could hardly be so described, for,
although a sound-enough writer, the
author can bring only minor qualities to
bear on what is essentially a major theme.
Nevertheless she makes one or two good
points in—as the title indicates —her
examination of the scene after the dic-
tatorship has been established. One is
the dictator’s fear of the means by which
he reached power, the Volunteer Guards
and their commander, his erstwhile
friend and colleague. It ends with the
commander’s execution. Another is the
betrayal of youth; men wrestling for
power persuading the young men of the
country that theirs is the way of true
idealism, courage and patriotism. Young
Myers, a poet, writes some verses lam-
pooning the dictator. Young Ekhart, a
junior officer in the Volunteer Guards
and youth of excellent qualities, calls at
Myers’s home with several privates, and
has the poet thrashed, so badly that he
subsequently dies. Of course, it is done
for England. It is an England that has
passed into history, as Ekhart’s own
actions prove, although he does not
realise this. The scene and situations
which the author imagines are observed
almost wholly from within the house-
holds of the ruling men of the time;
table talk and boudoir gossip.
F. D. D.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
A Gun for Sale: Graham Greene
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Has as its centra]
figure Raven, a hired killer, a dour,
miserable little devil with a hare-lip. He
has no conscience, no pity, only a dogged
capacity for hatred. His author per-
forms the miracle of putting the reader
in the shoes of this rat. Style is terse
and cynical. The half-dozen principal
characters are clear-cut and vital. A fan-
tastic plot draws substance and feasi-
bility from the unemotional character of
the narration.
The Wind and the Rain: Merton
Hodge (Cassell; 7s. 6d.; from Dymock’s).
One of the most successful of modern
plays done into a novel by its author,
who in his own prefacing words “sup-
plements the action with those scenes
which were suggested to the audience
but which could not be shown on the
stage.” A neat job is made of the expan-
sion, but Mr. Hodge would have been
better occupied with another play than
with reheating cold porridge.
The Ranchman’s Return: Daniel
Ward (Wild West Book Club ; 7s. 6d.).
A fast-moving yarn, tersely and vigor-
ously written, but characters all stereo-
types. Tt would seem that the last ounce
of original material available in this
vein was exhausted about the time the
talented but anonymous author of the
Deadwood Dick series laid down his
pen.
X Plus Y: E. F. Bozman (Dent,
7s. 6d.). A story in terms of algebra,
music and mountaineering. Reticent and
delicate in manner, yet showing deep
insight. The characters of Marco Bon-
tempelli and of X and Y (variable un-
known quantities) are charmingly drawn.
The essence of it is that (x plus y)
squared is greater than x squared plus
y squared.
Innocent Summer: Frances Frost
(Arthur Barker; 7s. 6d.). An American
essay on the lines of Redheap. It follows
the fortunes of eight or ten families in
a small town for three months, switch-
ing from one to the other and back and
forth in time in a bewildering fashion.
From the authoress nothing is hid. Her
scent for unsavory details is bloodhound-
keen, and the reader is spared none of
her discoveries in the realm of juvenile
“delinquency,” as the Americans quaintly
put it.
GENERAL . . .
Wake Up and Live —A Formula for
Success: Dorothea Brande (Arthur
Barker; 3s. 6d.). Another American
book in a London edition. The author-
ess’s formula for success is to “proceed
as if failure were impossible.” Quite a
lot of flying-machine inventors did that
and had highly-successful funerals. But
this book is not all hooey. There’s a
raking analysis of the excuses we feed
ourselves for not measuring up to the
standards of W. Shakspeare, John
Rockefeller, N. Bonaparte or I. Newton
which will make all save the completest
egoists feel guilty.
HISTORICAL . . .
The Historical Souvenir of Port
Augusta (Port Augusta Diamond Jubilee
and State Centenary Celebrations Com-
mittee ; 2s. 6d.). Contains, in addition
to much information of current interest,
a long, well-written account of the port’s
history. Illustrations are from a water-
color by W. S. Hutley and a large
number of historic, topical and scenic
photographs. And well produced.
Various Verse
In Bel Canto.
O dead, sad love,
With prison chains you bind;
My body you have had,
And is it not enough,
And must you have my mind
In body's ransom paid,
O dead, sad love?
O love, must 1 die,
And must T die with you,
Who in your form have grown
Till body not have I,
Nor mind, to call my own?
For this, for being true,
O love, must I die?
O love, let me live!
Return my body and mind
Till spring breaks through;
Then, growing whole, I’ll give
The death you have resigned
For a new life to you,
O love! Let me live!
N.s.w.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
Omen.
Between the worlds of ice and lire,
Earth smouldering at its deep core
And water moaning from the snow.
Two poised like dancers, waiting tor
A sign no stream or stone can ring,
Take earth’s black trance, with silence fill
And match the sculptured dance of boughs
On saffron mist so dark and still.
Between the water and the wood.
Wild as a shout, two birds whirl up,
And the deep moaning of the blood
Between the touch of lip and cup
Shatters as from the moon s clear bell
One note rings out, keen wing-tip-struck,
And round the chime in circle harsh
Three times the wings weave dark good luck.
Beyond the water and the wood
The whistling magic far is flown,
But two left trembling by the stream
Feel «rave blood flood their limbs of stone.
Their black trance breaks, their sign chimes out,
A saffron bell in their dark hearts,
And creaming like a cool, lit wave
The dance of their perfection starts.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


THE ABILITY TO SPEAK EFFECTIVELY
means ftfc&rtcgje,, sl&cuteJiiAift, ac/u&v&Mtewt!
4
Cun ipn ov&icome (pab
Mid yUaqe jftujhf?
I i
s
(mifmAmlwiiteak?
1
im
hbi
SIH
m
5 I
■ 5.,
| mm
bSe
m
HU
E ■
t'l
m
WKtßtmm
mm
'W.
IBSMm
B
■
4i>4
Gmijm fttyr<|w4rf
and. VUN ?
THE PRICELESS SECRET
OF A MAGNETIC TALKER
IS NOW OFFERED TO YOU
IN “EFFECTIVE SPEECH.”
EFFECTIVE
SPEECH
WILL HELP YOU TO
GREATER SUCCESS
GREATER HAPPINESS
Rich rewards await the man
who can talk well. He stands
out. He attracts the attention
of the leaders in all spheres.
Under all circumstances . . .
in business dealings, in selling,
in social and public life . . .
the man who speaks with ease
and fluency stands most chance
of getting what he wants. And
rarely has the spoken word
been of greater value than it
is to-day.
Make yourself master of Effec-
tive Speech by studying the six
books illustrated here. Mental
training, development of per-
sonality, public speaking . . .
all are included in the most
concise and practical home-
study course of its kind.
What Experts say:
MR. LAWRENCE CAMPBELL, leading elocutionist and teacher.
'—“This new work is presented on such a sound and natural basis,
is so simple and practical in its teaching, and is so extensive and
complete in the range of its instruction that it will be a boon to
thousands of men and women.”
MR.BRUNTON GIBB, well-known adjudicator.—“l have been much
impressed by the simple, lucid style of the distinguished compilers
of this valuable course, and particularly by the sound principles it
contains in relation to voice development and control.”
MR. E. P. ROWELL, Captain of N.S.W. Debating Team. —
“Probably the most valuable work I have yet read on this subject.
The series covers a wide range of absorbingly interesting and
instructive material presented in a way that is most practical and
commendably simple.”
MR. R. KIDSON, one of Australia’s foremost debaters. —
“ ‘Effective Speech’ possesses qualities which should make it
particularly attractive, both to novices and to those who have gone
some distance along the road to proficiency in speech, whether
public or otherwise. The course is a thorough one, with some
original but sound features.”
MR. HOWARD POPP, a distinguished debater and adjudicator of
interstate debates, says: “‘Effective Speech’ is the ■ only course
which enables a beginner to practise the art without the aid of
a tutor. Practice of its simple methods will not only pay big divi-
dends by way of self-expression, but will also bring about a definite
development of personality and conversational ability. The course
is not only suitable for the public speaker, but for the salesman,
the executive, the conversationalist, the business man and the
radio speaker.”
“RYDGE’S BUSINESS JOURNAL.” —“Embarrassment need now
be a thing of the past. ‘Effective Speech’ tells the business man
how to become a fluent and able speaker.”
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL FREE!
With the six volumes of “Effective Speech” you
receive a 64-page book on “Speaking Fundamentals.”
It is full of sound advice on self-expression, public
speaking, meetings, delivering addresses and the use
of wit, humor and anecdote. It quotes interesting
examples. You also receive 12 practical discussions
in pamphlet form, together with a letter of personal
instruction about each of the 1 2 lessons into which
the series is divided, and a form of self-examination
for each lesson. The discussions tell you exactly
how to apply what you have just learnt. The self-
examination forms make it easy to check your pro-
gress and guard against omissions. On every point,
Effective Speech’ gives full and easily understood
instruction.
MMMMMM
tJj tfpuk rntwcudum coitech,
ymti Apuek ntaiptitic*!
jboei it GET YOU
WHAT YOU WANT 7
This Is What You Learn:
How to Think More Clearly, How to Concentrate. Overcoming Fear in
Speaking. Five Simple Rules to Overcome Fear. Methods of Preparing
and Delivering a Speech. Speaking Extemporaneously. Combinations of
Various Methods. How to Present and Accept a Gift. How to Accept an
Office. How to Make an Announcement. The Purpose of a Speech How
to Respond at a Dinner. How to Make People Laugh. The Use of Stories
How to Secure a Pleasing Voice. How to Secure Resonance. Correct
Pronunciation—Articulation. Speech Melody. The Parts of a Speech: The
Introduction—the Discussion —the Conclusion. How to Control an Audience
“A Few Appropriate Remarks”—ln Opening a Meeting—ln Introducing a
Speaker—A Speech of Welcome. How to Respond to Such Remarks etc etc
Deliwe/ied to ipou/i home
5
jjvt a jjiAAt jtcufmenb of onlifs^
Six volumes, 5| x 7\ inches, bound in
flexible, dark-red, Morocco-grained artcraft.
This is a real opportunity to develop personality. For the
first time you can secure a complete, concise and self-
contained course in public speaking, prepared by a leading
university professor and an outstanding figure in the business
and financial world . . . successful men both.
SEND THIS FORM AND SECURE YOUR SET
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the six-volume course, “EFFECTIVE SPEECH,” with book on
“Speaking Fundamentals” and 12 practical discussions in pamphlet form. I
enclose a first payment of 5/- and agree to make five further monthly payments
of 10/-, in all £2/15/-. The price for cash within 30 days is £2/10/-.
NAME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
“Bulletin ’3079/ ’lf,


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
mmm
ii IMrti ffINU
Hi If I M 114411 fI f i w, i 1. 1
■Mil
111 II I 111
i
ii
mi
■■■• :
1 fil
I I t I|l | 111
HI IHi
W
1
Hi
an
1
B a
i n
HI
If
sm:
i ' ' i
A:
I m
m
■
Hi
■% ' 1 !
? r ■
48
W
Hi
4 f4
; “Ti
I -
Jgßi
WM
llMrJll
1
■
A;
? -
I
11
H
;*;:
H
a
T '
m
" ; v ;: :
a i
;
A
f ..
-I ; :
Wm
; 'l
m
WmmoM
■Hi
'■'.v
WM
m
■
a
. ’ ;,
; A
■
• s -
■
■
8 ■
iP
4C|*
: :■ I:
■
I
■f*;-;
••y.V.vi
V.-"
m
■',:
■
- '
m
ii
■
■
■
§§§§
■
■a
-
■
mm
■
■
11
m
■
1 H|
m
*
*
1
■
■
m
A
%
■
.
■
HB
r ■■
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage Cellars.
me


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2955.
September 30, 1936.
BAD CASTING!
“D’you mean to tell me I’ve got to get round in THESE?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Wesiralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
"ANTI-BRITISH."
“The Bulletin is anti-British.” It is a gibe almost
as old as this newspaper, and was hurled at it when
The Bulletin championed Protection and an Aus-
tralian navy, which were unpopular causes for many
years, and —along with Mr. Lloyd George and Senator
Pearce-criticised the Boer War. It vanished during
the Great War, when The Bulletin was for national
service while Mr. Lyons was “leading the anti-con-
scription forces in Tasmania” and Mr. Parkhill was
keeping the Liberal League flag flying ; it bobbed up
again when this paper opposed that very un-English,
highly dangerous and completely unsuccessful expe-
dient “sanctions.” Now it has been trotted out once
more because The Bulletin can see no good in the
policy which has driven the Japanese out of the
Australian wool and wheat markets.
The policy, arrived at in a hurry on grotesquely
inexact information, is aimed at promoting British
interests at the expense of a foreign country. Britain
is still “the best of actual nations,” and British
interests are important, but even their British cham-
pions arc not all-wise nor have they been wise all the
time. A pigheaded assertion of British interests in a
Dominion with not half the present population of
Australia cost Britain its first and, as some will still
have it, its greatest empire.
The present British Government is guiltless. It
was not consulted about the Canberra policy nor,
except for a Parliamentary Under-Secretary (and
Parliamentary Under-Secretaries are two a penny), has
it expressed the slightest enthusiasm for it, knowing,
doubtless, how much woolgrowing meant to England
when England had growing pains, how much more it
means to Australia, and how impossible it will be
for Britain to benefit if Australia is harmed.
The policy is the effect of the representations of
that delegation from the Manchester Chamber of
Commerce. It is Manchester legislating for Australia
in a cause which Australia cannot win for Manchester,
and in which Australia stands to gain nothing and
lose everything.
Manchester once legislated for Britain. As a
result of a very clever agitation dignified by some
noble oratory, it secured “the repeal of the corn laws.”
Thereby its cotton-spinners were enriched (though in
many cases the riches did not last), but British agri-
culture was destroyed; and in 1914, when Britain
looked round for the descendants of those yeomen of
England who won Marlborough’s and Wellington’s
wars, they could not be found.
The long results of Manchester policy were
brought home to a Manchester man, C. E. Montague,
of the “Guardian,” when he went to France, and he
set down his impressions in haunting prose:
“The English let us down again”; “the Tommies
gave us a bad flank as usual” —these were the things
you would hear if you called upon an Australian
division after the lion had fought beside his whelps.
That was in 1917. And in 1918 ——
You might survey from beginning to end a British
attack up a bare opposite slope, perhaps with home
troops on the left and Canadian or Australasian troops
on the right. You had already seen them meet on roads
in the rear: battalions of colorless, stunted, half-tooth-
less lads from hot, humid Lancashire mills; battalions
of slow, staring faces, gargoyles out of the tragical-
comical-historical-pastoral edifice of modern English
rural life; Dominion battalions of men startlingly
taller, stronger, handsomer, prouder, firmer in nerve,
better-schooled, more boldly interested in life, quicker
to take means to an end and to parry and counter any
new blow of circumstance, men who had learned already
to look at our men with the half-curious, half-pitying
look of a higher, happier caste at a lower.
Sometimes the line of home troops would break into
gaps and bunches, lose touch and direction and common
purpose, while the Dominion troops still ambled steadily
on, their line always continuous.
Perhaps the undersized boys from our slums and the
under-wilted boys from the “estates” of our auctioneers’
advertisements would get to their goal and then fall back
under orders without any need. Then while you saw
the triumphant Australians throw back a protective
Hank from the left of their newly-won front to the
English right, far in their rear, you knew bitterly what
the Australians were saying once more: “They’ve let us
down again.”
Many of those Australians were from sheep-runs.
The A.W.U. alone had 40,000 men in the A.I.F.
So our politicians are risking the industry that
nourishes “taller, stronger, prouder, firmer” Austra-
lians for the sake of the industry that produces
“undersized boys,” “colorless, stunted, half-toothless
lads from humid Lancashire mills.”
In other matters The Bulletin finds itself in
sympathy with representative Britons and out of
sympathy with c/i/asi-representative Australians who
pride themselves on what they take to be their British
sentiments. The Bulletin agrees with Mr. Baldwin
that “the primary duty of government is the defence
of the people,” and considers that the Australian Gov-
ernment owes this duty to Australia’s partners in the
Empire as well as the Australian nation. But Mr.
Lyons and Mr. Parkhill have been content with a two-
cruiser navy, an air force inferior to that of Siam, and
an “army” of 26,000, with 11,000 infantry and 762
more resignations than recruits last year, although
great attempts were made to keep up the fiction that it
is an army. And The Bulletin has no use for the
efforts of politicians to make the U.K. our one over-
seas market —it would bring no advantage to Britain
and would mean a stunted and hazardous national life
for Australia —so it does not expect the British Gov-
ernment to infuriate its people and imperil old political
connections and great overseas investments by banish-
ing the wine of Portugal, the butter of Denmark and
the beef of Argentina from the British market.
For the rest, The Bulletin admires the British
system of Parliamentary government and hopes that
Australia will become as united as the English,
Scots and Welsh have been for centuries and the
Afrikanders for five and twenty years, thanks to that
happy combination of British political wisdom and
Dutch commonsense the South Africa Act. United,
not by hacking the inter-State freetrade clause out
of the Constitution to propitiate influential sections
and extend government by board, commission and
regulation, but by gradual and logical processes. Oh
to have only one Parliament with supreme and un-
challengeable powers, and one set of tax-gatherers, and
one industrial “shop,” and one system of education, and
one transport department; order and freedom instead
of a chaos of commissions and regulations! But the
prospect does not appeal to our “tune-in-to-Britain”
politicians. They howl that it would mean “unifica-
tion,” and “unification” is a frightful thing.
Looking at the question from north to south,
The Bulletin feels that it is far more British than
the tribe of politicians who boast of their attachment
to Britain and trade on it.
Police and People.
Australians who travelled used to be amazed at
the tyranny of police methods in foreign countries.
They compared what they saw and read about abroad
with their impressions of the working of police
systems at home, and told themselves that no such
abuses could be found in Australia. It was true
enough—once.
In Victoria last June the statement of a man in
the dock that he had been so browbeaten and beaten
by constables that he had “agreed to say anything the
police wanted him to say” drew a striking utterance
from Chief Justice Mann:
There is no doubt that the examination, by the
police of persons in custody may be, and even is, carried
to most undesirable excesses. Some limitation must be
put on this growing evil.
In this case and in another tried before Book, J.,
in which it was likewise alleged that a confession
had been extorted by police violence, a not-guilty
verdict was brought in within ten minutes.
In N. S. Wales there was a dry comment from the
N.S.W. magisterial Bench that the State Police Com-
missioner, then newly appointed, had virtually altered
the statutory closing hour for liquor bars from 6 p.m.
to 6.20 p.m. There was a case in which occupants
of a Sydney office had to be heavily compensated
because members of the police force, having neither
search warrant nor summons, descended upon them
and took possession of their papers. Now another
Sydney civilian has been awarded damages against
three policemen for wrongful arrest, wrongful im-
prisonment and assault; and on the defendants’ own
admissions they flagrantly broke the law.
The plaintiff, a young printer, had been to a
dance and was on his way home. According to his
sworn evidence, he saw three men struggling with
another near a sedan car. There was nothing about
it to suggest that it was a police car, and he jotted
down the number. One of the men shouted “Come
here, you, and get into this car!” He went on
walking, and when the man made a grab at him he
began to run, intending “to get help or find a police-
man.”
He heard the driver shout “Shoot the mongrel
down!” Screaming for help, he rushed across the
road (“The car almost knocked me down”), dived
under some railings and got on a verandah, where
he beat on the door and shouted that a gang was
after him. (Incidentally, gangs have been after inno-
cent people, and there has been a recrudescence of
shootings in the underworld.) Thereupon, his depo-
sitions proceeded, two men followed him ; one knocked
him down twice and kicked him ; the others dragged
him across the road, one striking him in the face
“about half a dozen times.”
And so to the Regent-street police station. There,
in an upstairs room, he was punched again, and one
of the trio said “You stole a lady’s furs to-night. We
saw you!” Presently the telephone rang, and after
a short dialogue the victim was told to “get his coat
and ‘scram.’ ”
The young man’s mother said that when he
came home he was crying and was bleeding at the
mouth. A bystander swore that he had heard some-
body shout “Shoot the ——.”
The threats and assaults imputed to them were
denied by all three defendants. One, a detective-
sergeant, testified that they had acted on information
that “a thin young man, about 18 or 20, had snatched
a woman’s bag.” He thought that the plaintiff
answered the description, and told him they were
police. He ran away, and they caught him and took
him to the station. Chief Justice Jordan asked
whether they had proposed “to take up anybody look-
ing young and thin.” “Any young man answering
that description,” was the reply.
The Chief Justice directed the jury to find for
the plaintiff on the counts of wrongful arrest and
wrongful imprisonment.
If one accepts the defendants’ own evidence, the
arrest and subsequent detention were quite illegal....
They had no reasonable ground for suspecting that
the plaintiff had committed a crime, but even it they
had they would not have been justified in taking the
action they did take. Police officers have no right to
seize citizens and detain them to see whether a case
could be made out against them.
The jury found against all three defendants on
all three counts. The Crown paid for their defence,
but will not pay the damages, which become tanta-
mount to a net fine of £lOO each.
It is an axiom of British justice that no citizen
shall be treated as guilty without trial. And it would
be far better for a proportion of criminals to escape
than that the police should be allowed to make laws
of arrest to suit themselves.
The police must be taught that they are not
legislators and not trappers, but keepers of the peace.
The spirit of their instructions is embodied in the
requirement that even a person caught in the act of
committing a felony must not be forced to make
admissions, and must be warned before being ques-
tioned that anything which he says will be taken down
in writing and used against him in evidence.
Australia has no use for third-degree methods,
and there should be no place in any of its six police
departments for any officer who uses or countenances
them.
Ogpu Week.
Australia has had a field week for censors —all sorts
of censors.
A.B.C. led off by applying its brand of censor-
ship to the Lindsay-Montesole discussion of the book
censorship. Arranged for by the commission itself,
the talk was prohibited at the eleventh hour ; yet it
was innocent enough, as the text published in The
Bulletin has demonstrated. The talkers who weren’t
allowed to talk showed a tender regard for the morals
of the censor himself.
Then the Guild of Empire, which consists of
enthusiastic ladies, was heard complaining that it had
been “refused broadcasting facilities on the ground
that it is a political body,” although A.B.C. had let
“a Communist party leader” bray from a “national”
station “for purposes of propaganda.” This was
decidedly awkward, and it led to a heavy-footed
exhibition of double-shuffling on the part of the
A.B.C. chairman, who was one of the most energetic
managers that the Sydney brewing trade ever had.
It was true that a Mr. W. J. Thomas had been
engaged to hold forth on “his experiences in Russia,”
and true also that there had been “a second talk” in
which Mr. Thomas “presented the Soviet Govern-
ment’s point of view of the recent political trials and
executions.” But after the second monologue “we
arranged for a talk by Professor John Anderson, of
Sydney University,” who “not only criticised the
Russian Government but challenged Mr. Thomas’s
own arguments and conclusions.” And “we” did it
all because “we” are broadminded.
The commission has no politics. It considers that
one of its functions is to set forth conflicting view-
points on controversial topics by well-informed speakers.
In a democratic community no one should be afraid
of such free discussion, provided that the speakers are
qualified and that they preserve reasonable rules of
decorum in respect of language and abstain from any-
thing approaching personally offensive statements.
And this six days after the banning of the Lindsay-
Montesole dialogue! A.B.C. holds its commission
from a Government which has made a great show
of trying to get Communist organisations declared
unlawful. In the same week this Government concern
enables a Communist editor to spout Stalinism and
an imported professor to spout Trotskyism while
it refuses to let a distinguished Australian criticise the
book censorship ; and its chairman tells a bewildered
public that “no one should be afraid of free dis-
cussion” !
Of course the Customs Department wasn't going
to be left out of Ogpu Week. Some clerk or tide-
waiter descended on the eminently respectable Perth
Literary Institute and found that it had 17 books
“on the prohibited list drawn up by the Common-
wealth Board of Censors.” Naturally they can all be
bought in British bookshops (but in these matters our
Governments don’t “tune in to Britain”). Among
them are works by Llewellyn Powys, Ernest Heming-
way and other representative moderns.
The clerk or tidewaiter even included among his
captures The Golden /Lyy of Apuleius, which has
been a best-seller for about seventeen centuries. The
blameless Encyclopccdia Britannica describes it as
“a most successful work, invaluable as an illustration
of ancient manners.” The Golden Ass has to be locked
up in Sydney also, although a professor is to lecture
on it next month. And while this classic is banned
American detective magazines, full of foul writing
and fouler pictures of criminals —some lynched, others
lying in pools of blood —are allowed into Australia
by the shipload.
The Commonwealth film censor bobbed up next.
His contribution in repression was the cutting of a film
in which there are representations of a girl clad all
in chastity swimming under water —opaque, of course
—and of an aboriginal being killed. The Common-
wealth film censor's writ doesn t run in the States,
and Australians are to be allowed to view these awful
scenes, but they must not be exported. Presumably
they might bring a blush to the cheeks of Paris, where
the winning costume at a Beaux Arts ball a few years
ago consisted of a postage stamp, or to those of the
Russians at Rostov, who bathe unclothed. As tor
the killing, the same censor a few years ago admitted
an African hunting picture from Hollywood in which
the promoters stood by and filmed the screaming
death-throes of a native in the clutches of a lion.
The Commonwealth film censor will not explain
his attitude. Censors never have to explain. Though
their edicts be irrational, reactionary and inconsistent
they are answerable to nobody.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
It's Only Public Money!
A U.A.P. newspaper, the Sydney “Sun,” allowed a
correspondent to say that “Mr. Stevens and his family
have been away on holiday, without cost to our
State” —not like Dr. Page, “whose visit to the U.K.
cost the Commonwealth £4297.”
A few hours later the same paper had to admit,
the Auditor-General’s report having come out in the
meantime, that the “holiday without cost to our
State” had actually run away with £3545.
Passage moneys (Sydney to London and
return) V. .. £B4B 3 11
Travelling expenses (including cost of letters
of credit for two officers) .. .. 2596 2 5
Office rent in London and sundry expenses 100 18 8
£3545 5 0
And that was only to June 30. Mr. Stevens is still
away, and has lately been going about the U.S.A.,
where travel is most expensive.
During the same financial year £1497 was found
for the travelling expenses of Attorney-General
Manning, who “appeared for the Privy Council in
the dried-fruits case,” and lost, and £294 for Educa-
tion Minister Drummond, who, like Mr. Stevens, is
still absent; all exclusive of salaries. The three
gentlemen were abroad at the same time. This seems
pretty conclusive evidence that N.S.W. could dispense
with three Cabinet Ministers it has to carry the
burden of thirteen. ,
Commonwealth Attorney-General Menzies also
“appeared before the Privy Council in the dried-fruits
case” and lost. He received his salary while away,
and his bill for expenses came to £1550. He also,
unless report has lied, took a brief from the Victorian
Government and associated concerns on which a fee
of 2000 guineas was marked.
All these gentlemen will presently combine to
ask the people to vote out of the Constitution its
grand democratic natiommaking section (“Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the States, whether
by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free”) so that the people may be
burdened with more boards, such as the Sydney
concern (subject of two enormously expensive
inquiries) which has forced up the price of milk to
7d. a quart —this in the city with the most abundant
city supply in the world—and which adds the im-
pertinence of polluting the landscape with “Drink
More Milk!” advertisements.
What a shock these persons are preparing for
themselves!
Knockabout Farce at Geneva.
Having shifted Utopia to its islands the acts of
Parliament are there to prove it—Maoriland Labor
is seeing what it can do for the Old World. It sent
its new High Commissioner to Geneva with instruc-
tions to straighten out things in Europe.
Mr. Jordan arrived at the League Assembly just
when M. Blum and Mr. Anthony Eden had every-
thing arranged to conduct Italy back into the League.
“What’s going on here?” said Mr. Jordan, who,
admiring newspapers have discovered, was a London
bobby once upon a time. “What about Abyssinia?”
Mr. Eden, it is recorded, listened to these interro-
gations in glum silence; but M. Litvinoff, who is
always ready for an intrigue, was delighted.
The question of Abyssinia’s participation in the
proceedings was put to the vote. With six delegates
abstaining, there were 39 ayes and four noes. So the
Abyssinians marched in and the Italians marched out.
Mr. Eden now fears that they will not be present at
his new Locarno conference.
Haile Selassie has confided to a reporter that he
is immensely grateful to Maoriland and to Australia,
the Australian representative having been one of the
39. He added an engaging reference to “financial
assistance.” Perhaps the Wellington Government will
let him have.a “costless-credit” loan.
Truth Adorned.
N. W. Kater, M.L.C., who was president of the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association, wrote recently that 13d.
a pound Australian was a very poor price for Aus-
tralian wool when 16.4 d. was realised in 1925-26 and
’2B-’29, 16.8 d. in ’26-’27 and 19.5 d. in ’27-’2B, when
Australia was on gold.
Harold Simms, the Moree (N.S.W.) grazier, took
his fellow-pastoralist to task, not for saying that
this season’s wool has been sold tragically cheap,
but for implying that the demand for wool has
declined and assuming that “the prices bid at auction
reflect the demand.”
Actual reduction in world sheep numbers, outside
Australasia, during the seven years preceding 1935 was
100,000,000 head. As a result, wool is scarcer to-day
than it has been for many years.
According to J. B. Brigden, Director of the
Queensland Bureau of Industry, “our woolgrowers
will not seem to lose much if the price of wool does
not fall. A failure to rise in price is not nearly as
impressive, although the loss is just as great.”
Thus far this season Australia has had the “failure
to rise in price” and a failure to sell a large proportion
of the wool placed on the auction floor.
“Satisfactory prices were realised at the opening
of the second series of Adelaide sales,” a newspaper
report said. The “satisfactory prices,” the reader
learns, averaged llid. a pound.
It is a growing complaint among sheepmen that
newspapers don’t publish the truth about the wool
position. But it has to be admitted that some of
them adorn it.
Two Voices.
Bradford papers containing reports of the first of
this season’s Australian wool sales discount the propa-
ganda of the Canberra Government and the optimism
of U.A.P. newspapers. The “Textile Mercury and
Argus” of Sept. 4 says:
Australian prices are no higher than those made in
recent sales in Bradford. Opening auctions usually
start on rather a dear basis; any necessary correction
can be made in later purchases. Consequently there is
nothing to cause users, already well covered, to place
further business in tops, and they prefer to wait and
see how the Australian season develops. It is clear
that if normal Japanese competition had been forth-
coming there would have been a strong and dear open-
ing of the selling season. Business in tops has become
rather quiet.
And despite the alleged promise to Mr. Stevens
that Yorkshire would take the wool which Japan did
not buy:—
It is hardly likely that machinery activity in the
wool textile industry during the remaining months of
the year will reach the level of the corresponding period
last year.
The “Wool Record and Textile World” says:
At Sydney it was hoped to offer 48,000 bales. In
spite of catalogues substantially less than this, total
withdrawals have been fairly heavy. Although private
sales have largely cancelled these withdrawals, it is
probable that Sydney brokers would have been able
to dispose of the full allocation if Japan had been
in the market for her normal weight of wool.
This newspaper thinks that the “main point” is
that Japan will presently be placed in a position to
buy wool. This, it declares, “should be taken into
consideration by those who may have been contem-
plating selling for a fall and also those who were
prepared to buy on hand-to-mouth lines until 64’s
fell to 30d. or some other very low figure.” Surely
no Bradford gentlemen who told the flattering tale to
Premier Stevens were numbered among these persons.
However, “the opening of the season has not brought
out much bulk business in Bradford, though many
small orders were held up until costs were known.”
Last week the tops market fell id. all round in
Bradford—-a bad sign. At the London sales “buyers
were inclined to wait and see whether values in
Australia remain firm.” On one day 1700 bales out
of 11,000 remained unsold, mostly Australian wool.
On September 21 only 7814 bales out of 10,046 were
disposed of. At the end of the series Dawson, Sons
and Co. were saying “It is unfortunate that the
Australian-Japanese dispute has not been ameliorated,
as it is disastrous to the woolgrower.”
Mr. Gullett had better hurry up with those nego-
tiations. Graziers’ associations, State Agrarian
organisations and C.P. members at Canberra arc on
the verge of open rebellion.
The Easy Way Out.
With the development of transport by road and air,
unification of rail gauges has ceased to be of first-rate
importance. But the Lyons Government has handled
the question in the dilatory, muddling way charac-
teristic of it.
Replying to Mr. Gregory, the member for Swan,
in the House of Reps., the Prime Minister stated that
the Premiers’ Conference at Adelaide had adopted a
report of its Transport Sub-committee:
In view of the progress which has been made in
road and air transport this committee considers that
before any decision is reached with respect to unification
of rail gauges a further inquiry by a competent body
should be made, having special reference to the eco-
nomic and defence aspects.
Unification was promised in the Lyons policy
speech of 1934. In February, 1935, Mr. Lyons
announced that the Government had decided to pro-
ceed with the construction of a standard-guage line
from Port Augusta to Red Hill and with the making
of the necessary adjustments to the railway between
Red Hill and Adelaide to enable trans-Australian
trains to run without break of gauge into Adelaide.
This was to be the Commonwealth’s own special
contribution to gauge unification. The .State Govern-
ment raised objections, and after prolonged negotia-
tion the Lyons Government capitulated. It decided to
extend the existing standard-gauge line between Port
Pirie and Port Augusta, the State agreeing to extend
the sft. 3in. from Red Hill to Port Pirie.
Thus the Government at Canberra became a
party to perpetuating the very evil which it declared
itself intent on abolishing. It threw overboard the
third-rail scheme for the Red Hill-Adelaide section and
abandoned the uniform-gauge run between Kalgoorlie
and Adelaide which its earlier decision would have
brought about.
Nevertheless the Prime Minister said again that
his Government was determined to go ahead with
gauge unification and proposed to invite the State
Governments to consider a general scheme. So the
subject was placed on the agenda for the Premiers’
Conference. No time was given for discussion. And
now there is to be another “investigation”!
Recognition for Robert Bratten.
Six or seven years ago Robert Bratten, overseer of
works to the shire council of Tumby Bay (S.A.), set
out to study the problem of constructing a cheap
road surface which could stand up to motor traffic.
To-day there are “Brattenised” roads in all the settled
S.A. districts.
The old plan was to use plenty of rock and make
the road surface as hard as possible. Bratten decided
to reverse the process by taking the stone out of the
soil and making a soft surface. Roads used to be
made narrow; Bratten made them wide, to give the
traffic plenty of surface to work on.
The first step in forming a Brattenised road is
to rip up a strip not less than 30 feet wide with a
tractor and heavy plough. This is then harrowed
to bring stones to the surface, where they are hand-
picked and thrown aside. Rock outcrops are blasted
out. What remains—earth and gravel or earth alone
—is then graded into a wide, low-crowned formation,
rolled, and the road is ready for use. The first cost
has been far less than that of the cheapest metal road.
Reconditioning a metal road is very expensive.
A Brattenised road can be reconditioned by grader and
roller for a few pence per chain. The best work is
done on the type of country which contains either
ironstone gravel or limestone in the top-soil, but S.A.
road engineers have found that very few types of
top-soil are not capable of being used.
The shire councils of Eyre Peninsula and the
Murray lands have combined to erect a monument
to Bratten, in the form of a road plough set upon a
massive rock base, bearing a bronze tablet which sets
o.ut the nature of his service to the community. Now
he is to receive a more practical reward —a monetary
grant from the Government.
Australia needs more Brattens, particularly in
blacksoil country, where the construction of'a cheap
all-weather road surface is still an unsolved problem.
Why HAVE a Parliament?
The basis of all government is finance, and respon-
sible government, as understood in British communi-
ties, is founded on the right of the people to control
expenditure through their directly elected represen-
tatives.
Elected Houses have always safeguarded their
rights against infringements by Upper Houses. They
used to safeguard them, too, against usurpation of
financial authority by Ministers. But there has been
so much of this of late years that to-day it is hard
to believe that only a generation ago George Turner
told the Victorian Assembly that if a Treasurer found
it necessary to overrun his estimates it was his
bounden duty to submit new estimates.
In every State control of expenditure by Parlia-
ment has become almost a myth, but nowhere more
than in N. S. Wales, which rejoices in a Ministry
dominated by accountants.
Last year the Auditor-General commented on the
illegality of Treasury procedure regarding unauthor-
ised expenditure. This year’s report should set
Parliament in an uproar in defence of its rights. But
it will not, because Parliament has been giving away
its rights for years. The A.-G. finds evidence of this
in the increasing number of permanent appropriations
under specific statutes which are not ordinarily subject
to Parliamentary review. Also in the diversion of
funds from consolidated revenue to special deposit
accounts and the creation by Act of Parliament of
special funds which can be dispersed at the sweet
will of Ministers.
The A.-G. draws attention to payments made
without statutory regulation from the Treasurer’s
general account under the heading “Advances for
departmental working expenses and other payments
and advances to be recovered.” But these are not the
worst examples. A sum of £BOO,OOO was transferred
from consolidated revenue account to loan account.
This was done without reference to Parliament,
although Parliament was in session at the time.
“Guarantees of bank overdrafts of private persons
and various bodies [are] given by or on behalf of the
Government,” and “no information is given in the
public accounts.” “Exemption from the payment of
stamp duty” is granted, and there are “other varia-
tions of statutory provisions by Ministerial directions,”
all “contrary to law.”
Of no other State in the British Commonwealth,
probably, could it be written by an auditor that- of
total net expenditure from consolidated revenue fund
of £25,467,625 only £16,418,815, or 64.7 p.c., was
covered by the Annual Appropriation Act of 1935,
based on estimates included in the Budget presented
to Parliament.
If Ministerial encroachment on Parliamentary
rights goes much further in Sydney it won’t be worth
while having a Parliament at all.
Deporting the Wrong Type.
“C.W.”: Our lords and masters seem to have
drifted into the practice of deporting the wrong men.
At the time of writing it is an eighteen-year-old
German who, hating the prospect of military service
in his native land, slipped his ship at Fremantle and
walked to Kalgoorlie, nearly 400 miles away.
Arrested under the immigration laws, he is being held
in Fremantle gaol pending the discovery of some
means of getting him out of the country.
Not long ago it was a young Scandinavian
adventurous enough to embark in his captain’s bath-
tub and make a landing on a Torres Strait island.
Hounded out of Australia, he was received by Maori-
land, that country evidently having some appreciation
for one who must have been a man among a hundred.
Later still a vigorous young Russian served six
months in gaol for the crime of endeavoring to
become a resident of what is alleged to be the freest
country on earth. He also has been kept in confine-
ment at Fremantle pending the arrival of a vessel
to take him back to the land of the Soviets. All these
three young fellows are exactly the type of men
Australia needs men of initiative and adventure,
capable of standing on their own feet if given a
chance. Yet we deport them!


Society
"ANE IT'S P RINIED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Alpha”: For 12 months the 30th Bat-
talion has been the only infantry unit
in the Commonwealth to show full effec-
tive strength, which was maintained right
through the doldrums of the volunteer
depression. Among the pioneers have
been conspicuous a group of young lads
and veteran Anzacs who have come in
from Parramatta, Liverpool and even
longer distances, many of them landing
home in the a.m. hours once a week.
Now the Commonwealth announces that
it can no longer pay their fares for such
distances. They must get out to make
room for someone nearer H.Q., or pay
their own way. Simultaneously comes
the publication of the figures for the poli-
tical joy-riding of Isaacs, Page, Stevens
and other political celebrities for the
past few months, the full account run-
ning into thousands of pounds. In 12
months the displaced volunteers prob-
ably cost the country about £5O for
travelling expenses. What a contrast it
offers!
* :!: * *
“Babblin’ Brook”: There are not many
lines these universal stores haven’t had
a crack at, but one of the biggest Bris-
bane retail firms has recently added a
dental surgery to its multifarious depart-
ments. After this nobody will be sur-
prised if one of these enterprises barges
into the undertaking business or starts a
crematorium.
:j: v H*
“Cooper”: “On one point." writes
“G.S.L.” (B. 23/9/’36) on the gipsy ques-
tion, “the Romany commands respect;
no gipsy woman sells herself.” It set me
wondering whether he had a passage in
Longfellow’s “Spanish Student” in mind,
wherein the poet stresses the same pro-
position even more forcibly:
I remember
A gipsy woman, a vile, shameless bawd
Whose craft was to betray the young and fair.
And yet that woman was above all bribes,
And when a noble lord, touched by her beauty,
The wild and wizard beauty of her race,
Offered her gold to be what she made others
She turned upon him with a look of scorn
And smote him in the face!
It makes a fine picture in startling in-
consistencies, but poets are allowed some
license. My own desultory experience
of Romanies in the old country was that
the farmers (and the farmers’ womenfolk)
around whose holdings they camped
looked on them as unmitigated nuisances
and pests, with no redeeming virtues
whatever —not even the one noted.
* * ->
“P.0.M.C.”: That Martin-place
machine-gun demonstration when blank
cartridges were fired (B. 16/9/’36) might
easily have ended tragically had any of
the five men who ducked been shell-
shocked ex-soldiers. In Collins-street,
Melbourne, during the war years I saw
a shell-shocked Digger collapse in a help-
less heap on the pavement when a hunger
carelessly thrown by somebody exploded
at his heels. He was still unconscious
when the ambulance arrived for him.
Anyway when I was in the A.I.F. I was
taught that it’s both dangerous and stupid
to point any weapon, loaded or other-
wise, at anything or anyone except a
target or the enemy.
* * * *
“Avon”: The Zulu may be a better
soldier than the Maori, as “Der Jong
avers (B. 23/9/’36), and as much addicted
to educational and academic attainments,
but he lacks the social advantages that
give the Maoris such a highly privileged
position among the tinted races of the
Empire. S’Africa’s pillars of society
made their money out of diamonds or
gold ; Maoriland’s, in very many in-
stances, derive their fortune from the
marriage of a not-so-remote ancestor
with a Maori girl whose dowry was
several hundred thousand acres. In a
community where the vicar in the pulpit,
the magistrate on the Bench and the
knight with the broadest acres may come
of such mixed stock it is a darned un-
popular business to be fussy about the
color line.
* * *
“Shep”: If “P.M.’s” . figures (B.
16/9/’36) are right, over 20,000 Diggers
must have crossed the divide in a single
year (1933-34). The 1933 census showed
that 221,156 Diggers (along with over
1800 ex-nurses and 5500 ex-tars) were
still on deck. And about 75,000 were
drawing pensions. Deaths since the war
could not by then have passed the death
roll of war years. Lots of those who re-
turned but did not answer the 1933
census were scattered over every country
under the sun. But even on these
“ Don't shout at me, Emma — I'm not deaf!"
figures the average deaths have been
over 3000 per annum, an average that
must now increase each year, with prac-
tically all of us over 40.
* 5|C * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Deadly cargoes (B.
2/9/’36)? The worst I ever heard of was
when a shipping firm, ignorant of simple
chemistry, shipped Carrara marble and
carboys of acid in the same hold. Rough
weather caused the containers to leak ;
when the acid came in contact with the
marble it liberated the colorless, odorless
carbon dioxide, and the first men who
entered.the hold were smothered. The
most sickening cargoes —especially in
windjammers, liable to be becalmed for
weeks in the doldrums —are green hides,
softwood which had been treated with
creosote, and raw sugar. Hides stink
appallingly in the tropics, and the smell
of creosote taints all the food and water
on board. But raw sugar licks the lot,
for it induces a thirst and a craving for
something sour to drink ; you feel as .if
you’d give a month’s pay for a good
swig of vinegar or limejuice neat. I
found guano to be quite mild —you soon
become accustomed to the ammoniacal
odor, and jt doesn't taint food or water.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: The oldest precedent
for trying domestic animals for murder
(B. 16/9/’36) is probably to be found in
the Bible. In Exodus xxi, 28, one may
read, “If an ox gore a man or a woman
that they shall die, then the ox shall be
surely stoned and his flesh shall not be
eaten ; but the owner of the ox shall be
quit.” There are other allusions in the
Old Testament. From the commence-
ment of the twelfth century trials of
noxious animals frequently took place,
advocates being always assigned to defend
the prisoners. In France, domestic
animals and birds were arraigned in the
common criminal courts and, when found
guilty, their sentence was always death ;
the trial of any wild fauna was con-
ducted in the ecclesiastical courts, where
the penalty was excommunication.
* * * ■ *
“Fisher’s Ghost”: “Filibuster” (B.
16/9/’36) is quite correct in his refer-
ence to the cause of female spectators
being barred at the original Olympic
Games. Rome tackled the question of
stripped performers in the arena dif-
ferently. Women were shoved into the
back seats, where their view didn't
amount to much in pre-telescopic ages,
with the exception of the Vestal Virgins,
who were given reserved front stalls.
Later on, doings in high Roman society
became so reckless that the public sight
of a stripped gladiator wasn’t much of
a novelty for the sport-worshipping
belles of the period.
* * * *
“Shep”: 1 wonder how many A.I.F.
officers were killed without ever wear-
ing officers’ pattern uniform (B.
23/9/’36). At Pozieres, with the sudden
dearth of officers, applicants for com-
missions were pulled off their jobs, given
stars, and sent up to the weakened bat-
talions. Two 1 knew carried stretchers
one day and led Infantry platoons the
next; one bought his first officers’ rai-
ment as he was being invalided home.
There would be others who never re-
turned from their first stunt after com-
mands were thrust on them. But officers
wearing Digger uniforms in the line
were no novelty. With inconspicuous
shoulder stars, and even discarding Sam
Brownes there was little to advertise
their rank. We picked up General Glass-
furd where he was badly hit, just be-
hind the front line at Flers. He was in
tin-hat, issue waterproof cape and
breeches, and trench-waders, and as his
cape hid his emblems of rank our pro-
fanity on the subject of war generally
(we had just been dragged out after a
wild night) was unrestrained on what
was probably the general’s last contact
with the A.I.F. in the rough. His death
was reported a few days later.
; |. * * *
“Toheroa”; Burying important docu-
ments in bottles and being unable to
trace the plant must have been a habit
with early visitors to Maoriland. The
best instance of this is the bottle his-
torian Robert McNab searched for so
long and earnestly on Marion Island,
Bay of Islands. In 1772, after the
murder by the Maoris of Marion, com-
mander of the French ship Mascarin,
the command fell to Lieutenant St. Jean
Roux, who on July 12 buried on
Marion Island a bottle containing the
arms of France and a formal proclama-
tion of the taking possession of Maori-
land, which was named Austral-France.
The bottle was buried “with all neces-
sary precautions” four feet underground,
57 paces from high-water mark, and 10
paces from the little stream. Assiduous
search by McNab, in which experienced
gum-diggers joined with fheir long
spears, failed to unearth the bottle, and
as in over a century high-water mark
has probably changed, and there arc
now two streams in the bay, the quest
seems fairly hopeless,
* * * *
“Ampere - ’: When I mentioned (B.
9/9/’36) how easy it is for an ex-tele-
graphist to stand at the counter of any
suburban post office and “read” what
the dot-dash official is sending over the
wires, I should have added that it is
dangerous to utilise the information.
Any ex-telegraphist who listens-in and
discloses what he hears is liable to
imprisonment. Like his vaccination
brand, the declaration of secrecy which
he takes on joining the service goes
down to the grave with him.
,* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: Mention of the model
for the mercantile marine memorial
which was to have been erected on the
Sow and Pigs in Sydney Harbor (B.
23/9/’36) is a reminder that Sydney
badly needs a Marine Museum. There
is material for a very interesting collec-
tion, from the models of Cook’s En-
deavour—and perhaps the vessels ol
Dampier—to various modern craft of our
coasts, which would stimulate interest in
Australian history. Probably the most
interesting museum in Britain is the
naval one which is a twin ol the Naval
Gallery at Greenwich. There is not in
all Australia any such place,
** * ,
"E.H.M.”: Recent remarks from t e
Bench emphasise the popular mistrust
of police methods. Anyone who goes
round among motorists or comes in con-
tact with criminal courts knows how
deep this is. A newspaperman sat on
the jury in a Quarter Sessions case in
which two women with long lists of
convictions were charged with havm s
attacked a man with a knife is eye
was nearly gouged out and he had several
cuts inches long. The Crown eMdence
was mainly that of police who were on
the spot immediately alter the affair,
and who alleged that they , rec^ JC *
missions from the women in the dock,
Yet it took all day to persuade the ju y
to find one woman guilty, and tivemem-
bers, all respectable tradesmen from m-
dustnal suburbs, took several hours ot
persuasion because, to a man, ? tne>
“would not believe a policeman. t
one-twentieth of the stories to d in that
jury room were even half true, police
methods need a thorough overhaul,
* * * c h t Hn'Uv
"Lon : All these .P'. • . th {.
occupations seem to 11 py . ,
ting action of the L soiircc of
chief danger. f C f/ ta i nl .y t s d " ource
irritation, but real menace is th
fibrosis or chemical assimilation of the
silica, etc. by the lung tissues. Fo
long time, silica, in the form of quailz
was regarded as the on!y
offender, but lately, when was estab-
hshed that certain quaitz m J" es .
worse reputation than otl ?: ' CO i :
Rand research workers have found l evi
dence to convince them that sericit&. a
white mica, is a far ™ ors ® 'ntH.
exact manner in w 1 - t -ii a
bute s to pulmonary mfection is still
matter ot j speculation, I but 1
question that a o f^ very
in his system not on y g .-
rapidly, but is a sou t- S
mates.
PAYMENT BY WEIGHT.
“She had lost two stone in weight since the
breaking of the engagement, plaintiff in a breach-
of—promise action deposed in a Melbourne court.
The jury awarded her £ 3.1.) damages.”
He played her false, and left her to discover
How lightly plighted troth can be betrayed.
The old, old story of a faithless lover!
The oft-told tale of a deserted maid!
Stung by his perfidy, she pined and wilted,
Grew pale and thin, like others one has
known
(Though there ore girls who wouldn't mind
being jilted
To lose a couple o' stone).
He broke her heart —in that old fancy-fabled
Phrase that’s been current for so many a
day—
Still, such an organ clearly can’t be labelled
Before a jury as Exhibit A.
But when it’s solid, shapely flesh that’s flitted
Beneath the bitterness rejection leaves,
That constitutes, it has to be admitted,
Another pair of sleeves.
She lost two stone in weight. Was that the
issue
On which they fixed the sum he has to part,
Assessing, so to speak, the wasted tissue
As fitly featuring the fractured heart?
Three-fifty—twenty-eight! The veriest noodle
Will find, if short division he employs,
’Twill figure out some thirteen pounds in boodle
For one of avoirdupois.
He won her love and threw her down, the
blighter!
He filled her cup of sadness to the brim.
He left her eight-and-twenty pounds the lighter.
It is but meet that she should lighten him.
For ev’ry ounce of flesh she lost by fretting
Over the fickleness in him she found
He’ll have to ante up, it’s level betting,
The damages and costs together setting,
Another sort of pound!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kwechil”: Piquant ad. from a Kal-
goorlie newspaper:
Five Pounds Reward for information
leading to the discovery of the individual
that killed, poisoned or murdered my Black
Kelpie puppy dog about 10 months old. I
can assure him 15 minutes of the liveliesi
time he has ever had or ever will have
until his carcass is handed over to old
Nick to be roasted forever.
175 Boulder-road, Kalgoorlie.
* -l- :j: ;j:
“L.W.”: If “D.E.” wants to see women
without make-up (B. 9/ 9/ ’36), he should
come to the sugar towns of North
Queensland. Here the Italian women,
including the young Australian-born, use
no cosmetics at all—not even powder —
though women of British stock continue
to plaster themselves with no great skill.
Greek girls make up elaborately and
carefully ; the young Chinese honor their
ancestors by painstakingly assisting
nature, while pink rouge and scarlet lip-
stick are much prized by the abo. and
Kanaka women. The effect on these is
staggering.
❖ * * *
Henry G. Lamond: As the author,
and thus apt to be hypercritical, let me
say how much I enjoyed the illustra-
tions of my serial “Amathea.” There
were a few minor faults, to which only
the most captious would take exception ;
the main one, in my opinion, being that
the artist puts a coat on his man when
riding. Coats are only worn in the big
house at meals. Even if the artist does
give a rider a turn-up to his trousers,
and, in one instance, leggings which
lace in front, the fact remains that he
does what few pencil men can do—he
can put a saddle on a horse as if it
belonged to the job. His action pictures
are moving in their reality. I thank
him for the pleasure which he gave me.
❖ * : i : *
“Bobadil”: The destruction of
Toledo’s famous citadel Alcazar may
or may not bring tears of reminiscence
to Diggers. The name is a Spanish cor-
ruption of the Arabic El Kasr, and its
opposite number in Cairo, El Kasr-i-
Nil, gave shelter for varying periods to
soldiers unable to explain to the A.P.M.
or his minions their presence in Cairo
without a pass or in an elevated con-
dition. From this glorified calaboose
offenders were shipped to their various
depots, there to be dealt with by their
own officers. An Australian colonel put
the lid on the illegal practice of sending
the written statements signed by alleged
witnesses in Cairo as evidence against
the accused. He insisted that the actual
witnesses appear in person for cross-
examination, and as this often entailed
lo n g trips to Moascar, and even into
Sinai, Australian arrests fell off by some
75 per cent.
“Deucer”: I can imagine an indignant
outburst, probably in his mother tongue,
from the chief engineer of the Queen
Mary if he ever learns that he has been
referred to as a “Taffy-tiffy” (B. 9/9/’36).
Artificers who are also Welshmen are
plentiful; but they are naval laddies.
“Tiffies” are not included in the engine-
room staffs of the merchant service, and
“engineer officer” is the title for the chaps
who, according to the novelist, wield the
oily waste and the monkey wrench.
* * :f- *
“Melville”: There will always be
Helens, with faces presumably as strife-
stirring as the one which
Launched a thousand ships
And burned the topless towers of Ilium.
Still, Bathurst Island in the far north is
hardly the place where you would ex-
pect to find one. Yet Monsignor Xavier
Gsell, who is in charge of the native
mission there, has been telling a Darwin
interviewer how all the abos. there and
thereabouts —some 2000 in all —are split
into hostile camps by a feud which had
its origin some two years back in a dis-
pute over the possession of one of Eve's
daughters. Pitched battles are not in-
frequent and casualties far from neglig-
ible, though it is seldom a combatant is
killed. The heroine of the piece, how-
ever. hasn’t as much to answer for as
the original Helen : indeed she may be
quite blameless, for it doesn't appear
that she ran away from her lawful lord
with anyone else. She is a 12-year-old
lubra!
“Phil”: Others may argue about the
artistic shortcomings in our postage
stamps; my objection—to some of the
more recent issues, anyhow—is to their
defects in the matter of material. The
darned things will tear in any direction
“ ’ Ullo , Popeye!"
other than along the dotted line ; if a
man doesn’t handle them with the
utmost care they are liable to split when
he puts one in the top right-hand corner.
Apart from the money that collectors
pay for such things, there must be a
big profit to the department brought
about by stamps which are spoiled before
they can be put to the use designed for
them.
-1: * *
“Sally”: Those people who deplore the
late-shopping night show little regard
for the large army of workers, men and
women, who have no other opportunity
of buying in the city stores. It would be
a real hardship to deprive them of one
late-shopping night in the week, for, with
the possible exception of Easter Satur-
day, there is no holiday that is not shared
by shop-assistants. A
girl employed in a
suburban office has
no chance of ob-
taining her require-
ments except on Fri-
day night. City
workers may snatch
a few moments in
their lunch-hour or
risk unpopularity by
rushing into the
shops after 5 p.m.,
but the suburbanite
has no such chance
Until a few years
ago several large
city stores had no
late-shopping night,
which diverted a
lucrative trade tc
those that kept open
It was not only a
desire to share the
profitable Friday
night business that
caused them to
change their policy,
but the urgent de-
mands of customers.
* *
“Brix”: A damsel
of my acquaintance
went out to Rand-
wick with dad. The
old man, meet-
ing an old acquaint-
ance who professed
to know of a good
thing, sent daughter
off to put a pound
on No. 5 in the third
race. Dashing over in
haste, the girl didn’t realise until she had
left the window that she had bought
the ticket for No. 9. Sitting tight with
the ticket in her pocket she prayed that
No. 5 might not win. He didn’t, but she
had not bargained for a runaway victory
for No. 9, which paid £ll on her out-
lay. The rest of the afternoon she spent
wrestling with her conscience, but
honesty triumphed and, seeking dad out
after the last race, she told him that she
knew No. 5 had no chance and that
No. 9 was a far better speculation. Then
she handed her astonished parent the
cash. Dad, dumb with delight and pride
in her remarkable judgment, handed
back £5. He has not permitted her to
miss a meeting since.
* * * *
“Pindjnnie” in reminiscent mood:
The retirement of Phil Collier from the West-
ralian Premiership recalls to me when and where
I first met him. It was in 1905, and I was
working at the old Lakeside battery, re-
treating residues from the Boulder Persever-
ance dump, when a lanky, out-of-work Vic-
torian fluked a job with me. It was Collier.
For a time he had been a road-mender for the
Boulder municipality, but he was already a
live member of the goldfields Labor Council,
and was appointed as the Boulder delegate to
the State Labor Conference at Perth a few
months later. His next chance came when he
won the Labor selection to oppose “Bomb”
Hopkins at the 1905 election. it looked a
forlorn hope, for Hopkins had been an out-
standing success as Minister for Lands, and it
“Whisper it again."
“I love you."
“Not that, stupid—how much you’ll get when you're
twenty-one."
was largely through his energetic administration
that Westralia became a great wheatgrowing
State. Collier won the seat, however. From
the first, he always seemed to possess the happy
knack of getting down on the right side of the
fence. He was overshadowed for some years by
“Happy Jack" Scaddan, but Scaddan picked the
wrong horse in the conscription issue, and that
was the end of him as far as the goldfields were
concerned. His eclipse left the way open for
Collier, who held the Labor leadership for
20 years. When 1 worked mates with him on
Lakeside monte I summed him up as a thinker.
My opinion has never altered.
* * :|t *
“Agar”: Saw it in a shop window —
a model horse, as fine an example of
the taxidermist’s art as anything to be
seen in this country excepting, perhaps,
ihe Phar Lap model. The horse was
known in life as Clanchattan. Racing
in the Moonee Valley Cup of 1908 he
crossed his legs and came down, the fall
necessitating his de-
struction. A tailor wit-
nessed the fall and hit
on the idea of utilis-
ing the stuffed animal
as an advertisement
for riding habits. Me
bought the carcass on
the spot, and Clan-
cha 11 a n presently
made an appearance
in the tailor’s window
in Collins-street and
proved a fine draw.
The sequel came at a
recent auction sale of
household property
when the old nag, as
good as new, changed
hands for a fiver
and made another
appearance, this time
in Bou r k e - street
premises.
* *
“H.A.L.”: There is
no doubt about the
ease with which letters
after one’s name can
be acquired. My
hobby is meteorology,
and, some articles of
mine concerning Aus-
tralian dus tstorms
having been printed
in a British periodi-
cal the next mail
brought me an invitation to become
a Fellow of the Royal Meteoro-
logical Society, at the cost of two guineas
per year. Another article brought an
invitation to become a Fellow of one of
the two American geographical societies ;
cost, ten dollars per. 1 suppose it’s hard
to blame these organisations ; they do a
deal of good work and need money to
carry it on.
“Sky-pilot”: “The Barretts of Wim-
pole Street” was being shown in a
Queensland country town. It was dur-
ing the scene where old man Browning
is browbeating daughter Elizabeth, while
the sons look on and say nothing.
Nearly all the female section of the
audience was being appropriately sym-
pathetic, and much tearful sniffing was
audible, when suddenly from some-
where in the back of the hall came a
female voice, evidently more used to
calling the cows in the wide spaces than
to whispering in a crowded picture hall.
“Hell! ”it said. “What a lot of ——
pansies!”
*
From “Hampton Court”:
Of the many shocks suffered of recent years
by our old nobility none has been quite so shat-
tering as the affair of the Churchill girl and
her “stage comedian.” Daughter of Winston
Churchill, granddaughter of Lord Randolph,
kinswoman of the Duke of Marlborough and
remote descendant of the great Captain-
General and his Sarah, the young woman got
a job in the chorus. That would have been
overlooked, for members of aristocratic families
take all sorts of jobs nowadays; but the minx
fell for the stage comedian and followed him
to New York, it being given out that she had
“accepted an invitation to join Vic Oliver’s new
show ‘Shooting High’ at a salary of £l2 a
week.” According to a “Daily Mail” account,
as dished up by “S. M. Herald”:
“Miss Churchill before leaving wrote to
her mother intimating that she might soon
become engaged to Oliver. When ques-
tioned in New York, however, Oliver said
he had no intention of marrying a states-
man’s daughter.”
“The” statesman’s daughter it doubtless should
be —it is hard to imagine even a stage comedian,
mannerless and brainless as “stage comedians”
are nowadays apt to be, striking all statesmen’s
daughters off his matrimonial list.
In the next scene Miss Sarah’s brother Ran-
dolph arrived in New York to collect her,
and his arrival was the signal for the stage
comedian to bolt.
“Vic Oliver, the stage comedian, left on a
theatrical tour after declaring that every-
thing depended on the Churchill family.”
If the Churchill family had the blighter at
Blenheim, the Oliver carcass would be in
danger of “depending” from a tall tree. Old
Sarah would have strangled him with her own
hands. The worst of it is that Winston
Churchill can’t interfere in the case as a
father should. If he did, Sarah would be sure
to bring up that little matter of his speech at
the Empire music-hall, now gone but not for-
gotten. A young army officer, in London
for a night’s fun, he found himself in the thick
of an Empire tumult occasioned by Mrs.
Ormiston Chant’s crusade against that “sink of
immorality,” as she called it. Leaping on a
chair, Churchill made an impassioned speech,
defending the old hall as an imperial need.
What, •he asked, was an empire-builder’s first
requirement when he returned to London sun-
burnt and lonely? Interesting feminine society.
Where could he rely upon getting it? At the
Empire, above all places. “And who are ever
faithful, ever true? The Ladies of the Empire
Promenade!”
MAY BE.
She may be dark, she may be fair,
She may be tall or short.
She may be intellectual.
Or just a decent sort.
She may be plump, she may be slim,
She may be fat and jolly,
She may'’ be amorous in whim,
Or nicely melancholy.
She may be quite unknown to me,
Or know me like a sister.
She may be still a debutante,
Or scores perhaps have kissed her.
She may be helpless and petite,
Or masculine and able,
The girl who'll link her fate to mine—
Or maybe just a fable.
N.S.W.
A. G. B.


i 4
1
‘lOforW
10 for 9 y
■1.854
They're Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS,
( >8
hi)
£ '
k ■ 'V :
1!
the c
iRK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GENERAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Resolutions in favor of universal mili-
tary training were carried by the Diggers’
conference at Sydney and the U.A.P.
affair at Melbourne. The U.A.P. deci-
sion was rough on Lyons, who delivered
the opening address and urged all
U.A.Ps. “to show a united front
to the people.” Pleading (unavail-
ingly) for support in Bass (Tas.) two
years ago, J. A. Guy, then a Minister,
whined that Lyons had “led the anti-
conscription forces during the war” and
would never bring in universal military
training.
“Against the wishes of the Govern-
ment,” Blackburn, M.H.R., got his
motion for the provision of a Common-
wealth matrimonial domicile put to the
vote, and it was carried by 28 to 25. Any
useful reform that could be adopted
simply and expeditiously seems to be
“against the wishes” of this Government.
Having money to burn, the Lyons
Government has found £4271 for Isaac
Isaacs’s visit to London “to present him-
self to the King.” Four thousand two
hundred ; enough to pay 25 unemployed
breadwinners wages for a year! Isaacs
was one of Deakin’s Ministers. The
grand democratic simplicity that im-
pelled Deakin to return to the Treasury
a moiety of a very modest allowance
for a London mission seems to have been
wasted on the old gentleman.
A Tas. pastoralist has been taken to
task by U.A.P. newspapers for saying
that “Gullett has made an unholy mess
of the negotiations with the Japanese
and will have to go.” But the same
thing is being muttered at Canberra, and
may swell into a roar.
Perth has a Public Library which
doesn’t lend books and a Literary Insti-
tute which does. The Literary Institute
has had to surrender 17 books banned
by the censor; among them was The
Golden Ass of Apuleius. This outrage
was committed by a Government which
is about to ask the people for greater
powers.
Dr. Page at a U.C.P. executive dinner:
Our Constitution has been prevented from
working satisfactorily by the Privy Council
judgment. The Government intends to cor-
rect that by referendum.
Like so many of Page’s speeches, it' has
a distinct medical touch. Altered a little
and with an imaginary elector for audi-
ence, it would go like this:
Your constitution is working unsatisfac-
torily. I intend to correct that by pre-
scribing my fancy medicine.
The patient won’t take it.
Tully, M.L.A., who was Lang’s Minis-
ter of Lands and was supposed to be in
high favor with “the boss,” has aston-
ished the latter by coming out against
his dictatorship. Tully demands in-
creased representation and power for
country Laborites, caucus election of the
party leader and of Ministers, and (un-
kindest cut of all) appointment of three
trustees to control party funds. In a day
or two “he whose ear thrills to that finer
atmosphere” will hear the familiar thud
of a body hitting the footpath in
Goulburn-street, Sydney. That will be
Tully.
Over a month ago Melbourne’s
National Gallery trustees recommended
Hardy Wilson, born in Sydney, for the
vacant directorship of the institution,
choosing him by ballot. Last week the
Dunstan Government brushed the recom-
mendation aside and appointed J. S.
MacDonald, born in Melbourne. Both
are highly qualified men and good Aus-
tralians, but the snub administered to the
Gallery trustees and the man of ffieir
choice is just another example, and an
ill-conditioned one, of the parochialism
which has marked the proceedings of the
Dunstan crowd ever since it climbed
into office by turning on its old pals.
From Casey’s Budget papers:
Contribution to Japan—Australia Good-
will Volume, £lOOO.
Advertising Australian Products in the
East and Special Markets, £2OOO.
Entertainment of Special Mission from
Japan, £1325.
It reads like a jest, but he is no jesting
Casey.
Thoughtful people are beginning to
realise that the difficulty of defending
huge populations massed in coastal
cities constitutes another argument for
redistribution of at least some of the
excess, but city interests are always
ready with explanations that it can’t be
“In a democratic community, no one should be afraid of free discussion.”
— A.B.C. chairman Cleary.
“Gentlemen, the subject is ‘Free Speech.’ Now, let yourselves go!"
done. At the interminable Sydney milk
inquiry (the second), the manager of
Fresh Food and Ice “explained his
reasons for opposing any system of
manufacturing cream in country centres.”
The explanation was that “it is essential
that the cream be pasteurised close to
the point of distribution.” Then the
gentleman went on to explain that “milk
drawn from the Penrith district is
brought 40 miles to Sydney, pasteurised
and cooled and then resold in the moun-
tains area.” In other words, it goes past
Penrith another 40 miles and more.
Foreign travel has made Stevens an
oil-from-coal expert. “Hydrogenation is
a certainty,” he said over the wireless-
telephone from Suva (apparatus all Aus-
tralian-made) ; “there are no technical
difficulties.” But there are commercial
obstacles, and it has yet'to be demon-
strated that hydrogenation is the way of
coaxing oil out of coal. However, after
a holiday on full pay, done in the grand
style, a politician is apt to feel expansive.
S. A. Lloyd, the Sydney U.A.P.’s two-
job man (he is M.L.A. for Concord and
chairman of the County Council), had
another trip last week —to Lismore for
the Local Government conference. There
he talked tripe about the 40-hour week,
and said he was going to see the 2500
County Council employees got it. How
about buying more County Council cars
and giving them all trips to Melbourne?
U.A.P. politicians and newspapers
asserted in the jargon peculiar to them
that “the Stevens Government reduced
the N.S.W. deficit to £1,647,000 last
year.” The Auditor-General, a plain
man, puts it this way:
The actual deficiency was £2,293,086,
as against an estimated deficiency of
£1,466,803. The accumulated deficiency
now amounts to £29,759,447.
He dryly adds that “certain advances
which appear improbable of recovery,
amounting in all to £9,856,681, consti-
tute an additional deficiency.”
On the last stage of a voyage from
London to Sydney, the Orient liner
Ormonde, with portion of her cargo on
fire, had to put into Twofold Bay. This
is one of the rare occasions on which
people are reminded that N.S.W.. has
ports other than Port Jackson ; and pre-
cious little is done for them. Ballina
people asked the Sydney Government
for a bit of repair work on their neglected
port. Bruxner, who is leader of the
Cocky group, replied that it had no
money for such things, yet it is finding
millions for hurriedly improvised
“works” that nobody really wants in
semi-insolvent Sydney suburbs.
U.A.P. and U.C.P. .propaganda will
need to improve a ton if one State is
to be carried for “orderly marketing,”
let alone six States. Main, the N.S.W.
Minister of Agriculture, blithers that
“the referendum is to be held to allow
Australia to function as a nation.” Even
enemies have admitted that Australia
functioned as a nation pretty well in
1914-1918.
At the State U.A.P. conference in
Melbourne, “Mr. Lyons traced the
record of his Government in bringing
Australia out of the depression.” How
modest our Joe is! Actually, the wool
industry did more than the whole tribe
of politicians to lead Australia out 9!'
the depression, and the politicians will
lead us back there if they sacrifice it.
One of the five C.P. candidates for
Benalla (Vic.) is asking for support on
the ground that “the party is without a
lawyer in Parliament.” It was the gloomy
conviction of delegates to the legal con-
vention at Adelaide that many people
would consider that an advantage.
“Happy the land that has no history” ;
thrice happy the party that has no
lawyer.
Minister Spooner on the Sydney Gov-
ernment’s unemployed-relief measures:
The quality of the works constructed
and the efficiency of the supervision have
in many instances left much to be desired.
It has been admitted by several councils
that the wages, plus the 10 p.c. bonus
[Spooner’s Government supplied both],
have been more than sufficient to meet the
full cost; that is to say, they obtained the
works for nothing and have shown a cash
profit.
And to secure such results the Spooners
have borrowed to the limit and taxed
the people up to the eyes. And this is
the U.A.P. Government that saved the
country; “the applause, delight and
wonder of our age”!
Insignificant as it is in numbers, the
Queensland Opposition has two party
leaders, Maher (C.P.) and Russell
(U.A.P.). Russell’s parly could defy
detection with a microscope, but the
leader’s heart is in the right place. He
said the other day:
Let us have a realignment of the powers
of the Commonwealth and of the State.
Let the Commonwealth have full control
of trade and commerce, transport, educa-
tion and health.
By all means! Now let Mr. Russell
go and convert the other U.A.P. leaders.
Blain, the voteless M.P. for the N.T.,
asked Parkhill whether he had read the
text of the censored Lindsay-Montesole
broadcast in The Bulletin. Parkhill
replied: “I don’t read The Bulletin, as
I can’t find anything of interest in it.”
The only thing Parkhill is really inter-
ested in is Parkhill, and The Bulletin
can’t waste space on politicians with
neither brains nor manners.
According to Victoria’s Senator
Leckie, the 1 p.c. reduction in sales tax
is too small to be passed on in respect
of heaps of goods sold over the counter,
so “chain stores will get the benefit.”
It seems highly probable. The beer ex-
cise was, cut 3d. a gallon—from 2s. to
Is. 9d.—and the Trade got the benefit.
This sort of thing comes of having no
businessman in the Ministry.
J. B. Brigden, director of the Queens-
land Bureau of Industry, has no more
use for Lyons’s trade war than Lynd-
hurst Giblin, who was Government
Statistician in Tasmania when Brigden
was Professor of Economics there. In
an “Australian Quarterly” article, Brig-
den writes that he is “not at all con-
vinced that the reversal of policy is justi-
fied or that the Japanese aim and main
purpose have been interpreted correctly
by the P.M.” As for “Ottawa policy” :
I am an utter sceptic. Moreover, I am
afraid of it, and not chiefly for economic
reasons.. . .These policies make the Empire
more vulnerable. It was an economic
bondage that in the eighteenth century lost
us the unity of the English-speaking people.
Yes, Ottawa and its consequences do
stir up uneasy memories of Boston,
where there was a tea-party.


IF THESE STAY-IN STRIKES EXTEND.


Don't let your car
s
\\
.Jiv
DRAG" through summer
5HELL.to.OIL
V
Cuts out
PERSONAL ITEMS
D. L. Dymock, the “Grand Old Man
of Australian dairying,” celebrated his
ninety-seventh birthday a few days ago
at Virginia, Brisbane. Still in good
health, he has been in Australia for 91
years. He first settled at Jamberoo
(N.S.W.), was one of the founders of the
lllawarra dairy breed of cattle, imported
Australia’s first separator, was chairman
of the first Co-operative Milk Co., and
built Australia’s first butter factory, which
still stands between Kiama and Jam-
beroo. He was one of the country’s tall-
est cow men in his prime—his greatest
problem in travelling from show to show
was to find beds to fit himself.
Herbert Ratcliffe, general manager of
London's huge Royal Automobile Club,
is a Ballaratite who held a commission
in a British regiment in the war. Haig
promoted him to the general head-
quarters staff. He has held his present
job since 1919. Ratcliffe is a linguist
and a close friend of the King.
A. A. Calwell, who was investigating
officer of the Select Committee appointed
by the Victorian Parliament to inquire
into the shorter working week, now holds
a similar position with the committee in-
quiring into widows’ pensions and child
endowment. Calwell was for six years
president of the North Melbourne foot-
ball club, and is a trustee of the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground.
Australians are among the world’s
greatest travellers. R. H. Allen, P.M. —
just transferred to Inrtisfail (N.Q.f—dur-
ing his last two years on the Roma to
Dalby circuit travelled 16,000 miles.
Previously he was stationed at Goondi-
windi, and covered 60,000 miles there,
making 76.000 miles since 1927.
DAVEY, of the Awatea.
An unobtrusive feminine visitor from
T nndon Professor Winifred Cullis,
shares with Australia’s Dr. Martin, of
the Royal College of .Surgeons, the honor
of being one of the two women who hold
front-rank med. professorial posts in
Britain. Her main job is as Jex Blake
Professor of Physiology at London Uni-
versity, but all is grist to her busy mill
—her interests run from the English-
speaking Union to the British Film In-
dustry Council. For three years she was
president of the International University
Women’s Federation.
E. J. D. Johns, the N.S.W. commercial
travellers’ new president, is a bright,
busy, 44-year-old Parramattan who
started off with John Danks and Son, but
for the past 18 years has represented
A New C.T.A. President.
the Australian Tesselated Tile Co. in
Sydney. He has been a member of the
C.T.A. since just after the war. In 1926
he was elected chairman of the N.S.W.
Builders’ Exchange.
Some October birthdays:
Q’land Home Secretary Hanlon, 49, on Ist;
Federal Assistant-Minister H. V. C. Thorby,
48, and Prof. Theo Osborn (Syd.), 49, on 2nd;
R. D. Boys (formerly Chief Librarian of Melb.
Public Library), 70, Chas. P. Smith (“West
Australian”), 57, and Justice Richards (S.A.),
67, on 3rd; Justice Lowe (Vic.), 56, Justice
Gore (Papua), 48, and R. L. Curthoys (for-
merly editor of Melb. “Argus”), 44, on 4th;
ex-Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 75, on 7th;
painter Hans Heysen, 59, Harold Burston 47,
Brig.-Gen. Herring (Syd.), 55, and knight Sam
Walder (former Lord Mayor of Syd.). 57, on
Bth; former C’wealth Statistician McPhee, 67,
and Speck Attorney-Gen. E. J. Ogilvie, 44, on
9th; Dr. D. A. Burnard (Elder Con. of Music,
Adel.), 36, and H. C. Barnard, M.H.R. (Bass),
46, on 10th; poet Dr. C. H. Souter (Adel.), 72,
and Lieut-Col. A. C. Blacklow (formerly
M. for Franklin), 57, on 11th; knight
Harry Budge (Syd.), 63, Bishop Dwyer (Wagga
Wagga), 67, Ted Grayndler (gen. sec., A.W.U.),
69 and Rev. P. J. Hartigan (author of Around
the Boree Log), 57, on 12th; novelist Jack
McLaren, 49, on 13th; Prof. Henry Alcock (Q.),
50, Stanley Addison (Melb. Uni.), 56, and Rev.
James Green (war chaplain), 70, on 14th; Lang-
don Bonython (Adel. “Advertiser”), 88, Dr.
Darnell Smith (formerly Director of Syd.
Botanic Gardens), 68, Cecil Madigan (Adel.
Uni), 47, and J. G. McLaren (official sec.
Australia House, Lond.), 65, on 15th; former
C’wealth Statistician Wickens, 64, on 16th:
J. M. Drew, M.L.C. (W.A.), 71, F.W. Eggleston
(Melb.), 61, and Vic. Closer Settlement Com-
missioner Aird, 44, on 17th; former N.S.W.
geologist E. C. Andrews, 66, and Lionel Lind-
say, 62, on 18th; A. W. Lacey (ex-M.H.R.,
now M.H.A., S.A.), 49, and Nina Murdoch, on
19th; A. H. Gaze (British Phosphate Commis-
sioner, Melb.), 51, on 22nd; Q’land Meteorolo-
gist Geo. Bond, 62, on 23rd; Bishop Thomas
(Willochra), 55, and Major-Gen. G. J. John-
ston (Melb.), 67, on 24th; W.A. Agricultural
Bank Commissioner McCallum, 58, and H. S.
Dettmann (Syd. Grammar School), 61, on 25th;
Archbishop Killian (Adel.), 64, and H. K.
Nock, M.H.R. (Riverina), 57, on 26th; ex-
Vic. Senator Bob Elliott, 50, Vic. Hon. Min.
G. J. Tuckett, M.L.C., 63, and Lieut.-Col.
J. T. H. Goodwin (Canberra), 71, on 28th;
N. Min. for Social Services Hawkins, 60,
Roland Green, M.H.R. (Richmond), 51, and
Prof. Edwin Pitman (Tas.), 39, on 29th; Q’land
Min. for Transport Dash, 54, knight Hubert
Wilkins, 48, Prof. Wadham (Melb. Uni.), 45,
and knight W. R. Carpenter (Syd.), 59, on 31st.
M. F. Dixon, now Federal news
editor of the A.8.C., began on the old
“Argus” at Grafton (N.S.W.), the town
of his birth. After some years in Syd-
ney he returned to the country to edit
the Goulburn “Evening Penny Post.” Six
years ago he was appointed managing
editor of Maitland “Mercury,” and
when the “Mercury”—the second oldest
newspaper in N.S.W.—shortly afterwards
celebrated its ninetieth anniversary he
produced a 52-page paper—the largest
issue in the history of N.S.W. country
journalism. Dixon’s hobbies are work,
motoring and debating.
An ancient link with early history,
Richard Benjamin Asher, one of Sydney’s
oldest practising solicitors, celebrated his
80th birthday last week. He has lived in
the same house at Elizabeth Bay since
1886. His father was a member of the
first N.S.W. Parliament.
The new secretary to the Queensland
Labor Central Executive will be R. J.
Carroll, who has been an executive mem-
ber for 18 and last year was
chosen to succeed Senator Collings as
organiser. Carroll was one of the sui-
cide club of Honorables who helped to
abolish the Legislative Council. Fined
for falling foul of the Common-
wealth Government in 1919, he
elected to go to gaol, and while
in Boggo Road was the hero of
a unique incident. He was in-
vited to attend the State’s official
reception to Lord Jellicoe.
J. G. B. McDonald, a Sheppar-
n ton East orchardist, succeeds
Brig.-Gen. Bourchier, bound for
the London office, as M.L.A. for
Goulburn Valley (Vic.). A Scot, of
course, he has lived in Sheppar-
ton for 25 of his 37 years. The
Assembly already had two McDonalds,
Alexander (Stawell and Ararat) and
Allan (Polwarth), and the Senate has
two MacDonalds —J.V. (Queensland) and
Allan (W.A.). None of the gentlemen
has any trace of the ferocity that, accord-
ing to Shakspeare, distinguished d remote
ancestor —“the merciless Macdonwaid
from the Western Isles,” who of “kernes
and gallowglasses” was “supplied.”
George Murray, who has given Adel-
aide University £lO,OOO to house the
Men’s Union, is a S. Australian who
after a term at his home university took
his law degree at Cambridge, bracketed
senior in the Law Tripos. He was called
to the Bar in England, but returned im-
mediately to practise in his native State,
became a K.C. in 1906 and has been
Chief Justice, Lieutenant-Governor and
University Chancellor since 1916. He
founded the Tinline historical research
scholarship in memory of his mother's
family. He is one of the very few Aus-
tralians who are members of London's
exclusive Athenaeum Club.
Professor R. A. Watson, late of Adel-
aide University, has greater claim to
recent fame than alleged Shavian ideas
about white and colored marriages (B.
5/8 / ’36). He is
probably Australia’s
oldest motor-cyclist.
Watson is in his
ninth decade, but
Thursday Island is
now accustomed to
the sight of his
bearded and portly
figure being whirled
about its scanty roads with a trail of
fumes behind it. His motor-bike is no
old gentlemanly Rolls-Royce either It
has no self-starter, is without brakes and
can be stopped only by the rider shutting
off the engine and dragging his feet on
the ground.
A. G. Fenner needs all the determina-
tion which lies behind his features these
times—he is chief wool appraiser to
Elder Smiths, of Adelaide. His sporting
activities give him a wider fame. He
is president of the S.A. Amateur Athletic
An Athletic Wool Man.
Association and of the Australian
Athletic Union.
“El V.” on a picture peer:
The Earl of Warwick is the first member of
the British peerage to take to the pictures
as a profession. He had no need to: he could
provide his own settings on an elaborate scale
if he cared to use his ancient and enormous
Warwick Castle. As he has one of the most
decorative young wives in England, herseli no
mean amateur actress, his leading lady is ready-
made for him. The Grevilles and their female
ancestors the Beauchamps were ever a busy
family. More of them were slain in battle
or beheaded in the Middle Ages than in most
other leading families. If the clpck could be
turned back the opinion of Warwick the King-
maker and his brother-in-law, the king ol the
Isle of Wight, on their movietone successor
would probably make lively hearing. So should
the comment of those worthies on another iol-
lower-on who has been successively motoring
editor of the “Daily Express,” the “Daily Mail”
and English “Country Life.”
Dubois has made a lifelike sketch of
J. A. Henderson, g.m. of the Australian
Metropolitan Life Co., whose head-
quarters are in Sydney Henderson is
J. A. HENDERSON.
a stocky, energetic man who looks less
than his 63 years. South Aus. by birth,
he went into insurance with Citizens’
Life Co. in 1888, joined his present co.
in 1901 and has been g.m. for 32 years.
Outside the office, his main interest is
his garden.


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
9
m.
m
#
mt
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
alt
mm
M
mm
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO. Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £l.
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


Protect your Family by
regularly revising your Will
ŵ
A learned judge, in giving judgment in a
case which involved the interpretation of
a.will said: .. if the testator had really
directed his mind to it a very slight altera-
tion would have given effect to the bequest.”
The intentions of the testator were obvious,
but a strict interpretation of the phraseology of the will
defeated his object.
In fairness to your family, see that your will is properly
drawn. Have it revised by your solicitor, and avoid
expensive litigation and possible hardship.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us, we will
be glad to discuss with you and your solicitor, the
important aspects of practical administration of your
estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M G.,‘
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY
For Gold and Base Metal Mines, Etc.
The following equipment is manufactured under license in our own works at South
Melbourne: —
DORK Classifiers, Agitators, Thickeners, Pumps, etc. .
OLIVER Continuous Drum and Disc Filters.
MERRILX-CROAVE Gold Precipitation Plants. „
ALhEN-SHEBJIAN-HOrr Hydroseal “Maximix” Soft Rubber-lined Sand Pumps.
WESTERN-PRECIPITATION Dust .Collection and Recovery Units.
Units of the above equipment have been, and are being, supplied to “j 1
Mines' in Australasia, such as Great Boulder Pty., Gold Mines, T \.‘
Star, Triton, Lancefield, Big Bell, Mount Isa, Mount Morgan and Mount Ljell, etc.
BY
CROSSLE & DUFF PTY., LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SYDNEY OFFICE: Crossle. Duff & Macintosh, Ltd., Winchcombe House, ;>* Bridge
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of New Zealand
Net To Re— Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 303,087 14 p.c. = 277,741 25,340 2,173,044
1927.. 282,725 14 „ ~ 280,000 2,725 2,175,769
1928.. 269,803 14 „ „ 280,000 2,165,572
1929.. 269,582 14 „„ 280,000 2,155,154
1930.. 259,017 12 „ „ 240.000 19,017 2.174,171
1931.. 194,286 10 „„ 200,000 2,168,457
Exchange and contingency account,
£50,000 2,118,457
1932. . 163,836 7 p.c. = 140,000 23,836 2,142,293
Exchange and contingencies, £40,000.. 2,102,293
1933. . 102,448 4 p.c. = 80,000 ( 44g „ u 4
Written oft' premises, £lO,OOO j ’ ’ ’
Exchangealnd aontingenqies, £40,000.. 2,074,741
1934 ' ; .*? 1,67 i 4 - P ’ C ' % inn’nn 0 31,674 2,106,415
Written oft premises, £lO,OOO i
Exchange and contingencies. £530,000.. 1,576,415
1935.. 118,949 4 p.c. = 80,000 38,949 1,615,364
1936 88,594 4 „ , BCI,OOO \ _ j 613f968
Written oft premises, £lO,OOO )
The bad weather that was ushered in
by slump continues for the trading banks
in Maoriland, and there appear to be
a few squalls ahead yet, owing to activi-
ties of the Government in connection
with banking and marketing. The col-
lapse of prices, fall in interest rates,
growth of interest-bearing deposits and
contraction in advances slowed down the
rate of earnings, and this co., which paid
a steady 14 p.c. for the decade to the
close of accounts in 1929, dropped its
div. to 4 p.c. in 1933, and kept it there.
In August, 1934, the Reserve Bank of
N.Z. began business. Among other
things it took over the trading banks’
gold reserves, paying in paper at the
statutory price of the metal, which was
about 45 p.c. below market value; it
also became the sole note-issuing
authority in the Dominion, so the trad-
ing banks lost their pickings from that
source, too. Then the Government re-
deemed over £6,500,000 of Treasury bills,
etc., which further piled up the banks’
cash resources. The Labor Government
transformed the Reserve Bank into a
State bank, the idea being to make it
an effective economic instrument in the
execution of political policy. Further,
the Primary Products Marketing Act has
given the Government control over the
Dominion’s exports through guaranteed
prices to producers. Thus far, action has
been taken only in respect of dairy pro-
duce. If the Government adds wool
and meat to its list of activities under the
Act, the trading banks would then be
almost completely deprived of the
normal means of replenishing their
London funds, and would have to pur-
chase all their exchange requirements
from the Reserve Bank. The effect of
this upon earnings would depend upon
the price at which the Reserve Bank sold
London credits.
With an eye to the future, the National
has transferred substantial sums to Lon-
don, where its headquarters are. To
meet the cost and provide for other con-
tingencies, £660,000 of visible reserves
disappeared during the four years to the
close of accounts in 1935. During the
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
the value of both imports and exports
increased, to the benefit of exchange
earnings, and trade locally was better,
too. A growth of £190.959 in bills pay-
able, etc. —the etcetera is provision tor
contingencies—and of £100,324 in de-
posits was accompanied by an expansion
of £851,466 in advances and a contrac-
tion of £609,298 in liquids. Still, after
sending £14,000 to the staff pensions
funds, the board wrote net earnings
£30,355 less than the previous year’s at
4.4 p.c. on capital as against 5.9, 6, 5.1,
8.1, 9.2 and 12.9 p.c. back to 1930.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital . . £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Notes .. .. 1,111,225 151,763 99,820
mils . . . . 1,313,405 1,368,853 1,559,812
Deposits .. ..10,595,886 13,554,858 13,655,182
Liquid assets .. 12,288,558 8,251,707 7,642,409
Advances, bills, etc. 9,248,246 9,850,009 10,701,475
Premises . . . . 630,128 629,124 624,890
When the books closed 53.7 p.c. of the
liabilities to the public was liquid as
against 54.7 p.c. a year earlier and 45.1
p.c. in 1929. The ratio of advances to
deposits was 78.3 p.c., compared with
72.6 p.c. at the previous balance and 110
p.c. in 1929. The co. was holding only
£3 18s. Bd. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. It is a strong
position, but it means low earning power.
The £7 10s. shares paid to £2 10s. are
priced at £3 2s. in Wellington as against
£3 12s. a year ago. The return at £3 2s.
is 3.3 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects of a bit better later on. The
cover is visibly £4 10s. 4d. in net tan-
gibles.
Australian Drug (Investments), Ltd.
Juno, Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 14,688 10 p.c. = 13,308 1380 31,883
Pref. Ord.
p.c. 10 p.c.
1927.. 17,254 3531 13,723 31,883
1928.. 21,247 4708 13,722 2817 34,700
Premiums on new shares, £5OOO 39,700
1929.. 19,681 4708 14,973 39,700
1930.. 12,708 4708 Nil 8000 47,700
Unexplained addition reserves, £3160 50,860
1931.. 4,181 Nil Nil 4181 55,041
1932.. 2,423 Nil Nil 2423 57,464
From tax reserves, £630 .. 58,094
1933.. 3,719 Nil Nil 3719 61,813
Loss on sale of property, £26,550. . 35,263
Loss.
1934.. 2,472 Nil Nil 32,791
Profit sale shares, £1648 .. .. 34,439
Profit.
1935.. 4,200 19,568* Nil 19,071
2.5 p.c.
1936.. 7,916 3,649 4,056 212 19,283
*Five years to June 30, 1935.
There is £225,000 of capital to feed in
62,775 1\ p.c. cum. prefs. {less 22\ p.c.
statutory cut) and 162,225 ords. After
a five years’ wait the prefs.’ slate was
cleaned in 1935. Now the ords. are in
the picture again, and seem likely to
remain there; their prospects of a bit
better than 24- p.c. are encouraging.
Together with 11 other drug concerns,
this Sydney co. sold its main trading in-
terests to Drug Houses of Australia, a
holding co., for £169,026 in scrip in 1930.
That left it with three properties and a
handful of book debts, etc. The proper-
ties were Australia House, in Carring-
ton-street (built, with plenty of letting
space, when prices were at their top),
factory premises in York-street and a
garage in Charles-street. The lot was
subject to an overdraft of £160,000, since
reduced to £105,255 by sale of the York-
street property for £21,000 cash (the loss
on the deal was £26,550), and disposal
of 39,400 D.H.A. pound shares at a
profit of £1648. With the improvement
in conditions generally, more space in
Australia House was taken, and divs.
from D.H.A. improved, though they are
still moderate.
During the last term the co. received
54 p.c. (£7129, up £1620) on its holding
in D.H.A., and rents were £3462 better
at £12,965. Exes. (£12,178) were £1366
heavier. The net result (£7916, up £3716)
was enough to give the prefs. 5.8 p.c. and
show 2.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
At 225. 3d. the prefs. yield, 5.2 p.c. on
a 5.8 p.c. div. basis. It is difficult to say
when their participating rights under the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act are
likely to amount to anything. The ords.
at 15s. 9d. return 3.1 p.c. on a 24 p.c.
distribution. The investor who looks for
a shade over 5 p.c. on his money counts
on a 4 p.c. div., which appears to be
within reach. Rentals are now at the
rate of £14,300 p.a. With a 6 p.c. return
on D.H.A. shares, and exes, the same
as last year, the co. could thus show
enough to pay the pref. div. and 4.4 p.c.
on its ord. capital. Any further improve-
ment will mainly depend upon returns
from D.H.A.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .;. £225j000 £225,000 £225,000
Liabilities .. . . 160,361 112,462 108,267
Freehold.. .. .. 276,467 229,365 229,365
Investmehts . . . 169,026 129,626 129,626
Book debts, etc. ... . 1,681 1,191 1,263
Liabilities consist of an overdraft of
£105,255 and £3012 coming to sundry
creditors. Efforts are still being made to
sell the garage.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
.££ £ £
1935.. 13,945 01 p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
This lusty youngster, now doing bush
ness in all the Australian States and
Maoriland, bought a five-acre block near
the West Footscray railway station (Vic.)
and put up a factory thereon with an
annual capacity of 100,000 tyres in
1933, just as capital values began to
harden and the' upward surge in the
motor and other trades commenced to
make itself felt. There was no goodwill
thrown into the scales to help balance
capital, and preliminary exes, (unstated,
but apparently light) were written off out
of earnings by the middle of 1935.
With everything right on the technical
side and an expanding market, turnover
increased so rapidly that 70,000 new
pound shares were put out at par in
January last, making issued - capital
£245,000, of which £49,000 was still to
come when the books closed at June 30
—another 4s. has been called on the con-
tribs. since, making them paid to 10s.
each. Also 50,000 new shares are to be
issued at par to employees:— . -
1935. 1936.
Paid capital £173,343 £196,000
Overdraft 15,592 12,109
Other liabilities .. .. . . 16,560 40,780
Land and buildings . . . . 18,669 25,324
Plant, etc 59,248 69,447
Stocks 81,099 11-7,028
Debtors, etc. . . . . . . 55,642 66,989
The £22,657 of fresh capital gathered
during the year, together with an extra
£24,737 from sundry creditors, etc. —the
etcetera is an unspecified provision for
taxation —went mostly into stocks (up
£35,929), debtors’ balances, etc. (up
£11,347), and. plant (up £10,199). In-
cluding stocks, more or less liquids
exceeded liabilities by £131,128 when the
books closed, an improvement of
£26,539 over the twelvemonth, so there
is nothing to worry about on that score.
Over the last three years there has
been a growth of 121,612 in the number
of motor vehicles (665,948 at June 30,
excluding motor cycles) on the roads in
Australia. For the 12 months to the
close of accounts in 1935. the board put
net profit at £13,945, after writing oft'
preliminary exes, and providing for con-
tingencies, and £12,324 (= 6j p.c. p.a.
since inception) was distributed. For the
last term there was a sharp spring ot
£20,072 in declared net earnings, raising
them to 18.6 p.c. on average capital, and
the div. was lifted to 10 p.c.
At 38s. 6d. the fully-paid pound shares
return 5.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 21s. lOd. per
pound of paid capital.
F. T. Wimble and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
f- Dividends .
Net Pref. To Rp- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
192(5.. 14,0(51 4000 8 p.c. = 7334 2727 44.914
1927.. 15,170 4000 8 „ „ 7376 3794 48,70 S
1928.. 14,415 4000 8 „ ~7423 2992 51,700
1929.. 14,590 4000 8 ~ „ 7467 3123 54,823
1930.. 14,409 4000 8 „ „ 7526 2883 57,706
1931.. 4,473 ‘' 4000 Mil 473 58,179
6.(5 p.c.
1932.. 9,602 3325 6.2 p.c.=5878 399 58,578
6.2 p.c.
1933.. 10,800 3100 0.2„ „ 5878 1822 60,400
1934.. 11,920 3100 0.2„ „ 5878 2942 63,342
8 p.c.
1935.. 17,342 4000 8,, „ 'i' sB4 ]. 2758 66,100
Employees’ bonus res., £3OOO )
1936.. 21,617 4000 10 p.c. - 9775 ) 4g42 70,943
Employees’ bonus res., £3OOO J
F. T. Wimble, who founded the busi-
ness in 1867, and was chairman of the
co., died in January last in his eighty-
ninth year. G. B. Wimble, who has
grown up in the business, has taken his
father’s place at the head of the board
table. The co, supplies all kinds of
printers’ requisites, including the Aus-
tralian-made ink with which The Bulle-
tin has been printed for over hall a
century. Branches have been estab-
lished in every State, and a subsidiary
has operated in Maoriland with favor-
able results since 1928. The ord. capi-
tal (£97,755) is held mainly by the
Wimbles and their friends. The public
put up £50,000 of well-protected pref.
money, carrying a cumulative 8 p.c., in
1924 to finance further expansion of the
business.
Although slump and the board’s
cautious figuring of net earnings caused
the ords. to be shown an empty basket
in 1931, the only interruption to the flow
of pref. divs. was the statutory cut of
22\ p.c.; and that applied for only 21
years, thanks to expanding turnover, the
management’s tight hold upon exes., and
the soundness of the figures at which
stocks, debtors’ balances and other assets
appeared in the sheet. For the last two
years the prefs. have had their full con-
tract rate, and there is nothing in sight
to suggest that it is likely to be inter-
rupted again.
Gross earnings, which fell from
£74,764 in 1930 to £54,787 in 1931, rose
to £80,503 for the last term, when
the improvement was £8930. Exes.
(£58,886) were up £4656. The net result
(£21,617, up £4275) was the best yet,
being enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 18.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against
14 p.c. for the previous year. The div.
was lifted a couple of points, making it
10 p.c.
At' 28s. 6d. the prefs. return 5.6 p.c.
The backing is £4 7s. 6d. in net tangibles.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1929. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. £143,340 £ 144,800 £144,800 £147,775
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. 55,548 26,627* 27,162* 29.390*
Freeholds, etc. 74,459 66,170* 70,469* 72,014*
Plant, etc... 24,964 21,788 18,906 16,880
Shares in
other cos. 25,093 25,090 25,106 25,109.
Stock .. 80,600 67,083 59,297 61,723
Debtors .. 62,562 46,926 54,110 58,242
Cash . . 14,374 29,209 34,896
* After deducting mortgages.
Although an unspecified amount of
mortgage money is deducted from free-
holds in the published accounts, finances
are obviously comfortable. When the
books closed, stocks, debtors’ balances
and cash exceeded the amount coming
to trade creditors, etc., by £125,471, an
improvement of £10,017 over the twelve-
month.
{“Wild, Cat” continued on page 18.)


DOGS, CATS, RABBITS, FERRETS,
GOLDFISH, ETC.
Kangaroo, very tame, good lawn-
mower. ’Phone XlBll.
WHAT IT MAY COME TO.


REMOVAL NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby
given that the Cor-
poration will, on and
after September 28th,
occupy more commodious
premises in the newly-
erected City Mutual Build-
ing at the corner of Bligh,
Hunter and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney. The
Corporation’s new offices
on the Seventh Floor will
be served by direct ex-
press elevator.
In addition to its widely-
known financial services to the
motor industry, the Corpora-
tion will continue to offer
credit facilities to approved
commercial and industrial
organisations.
Moneys Accepted
On Fixed Deposit
The Corporation accepts moneys on
deposit for jixed terms and at rates of
interest (until otherwise determined
and notified) as set out hereunder: —
Term. • lnt. p.a.
3 months p.e.
6 months 4 ~
12 months 4| „
24 months 5 „
Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd
(Authorised Capital, £822,500. Paid Up Capital, £430,955/11 /-.)
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING,
Bligh, Hunter and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
Telephone 8W3141 (ten lines).
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur F.edy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
BRITISH MOTOR
TRUCKS
We have in stock two absolutely new
Petrol Motor Lorries made by
TILLING STEVENS, LONDON,
which we are selling at £420 each.
The usual price of these trucks is
from £9OO to £ll5O, and we desire
the room for new models. Any
inspection.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
Devaluation of Franc
Lately the French franc has been over-
valued and the U.S.A. dollar under-
valued in terms of sterling. During Sep-
tember, sterling appreciated a little in
terms of both dollars and francs, the
dollar rising by approximately cents,
reaching 5.068 dollars to the pound, and
the franc by about 0.55 francs to 76.953
francs at Sept. 23. This was due mainly
to developments in France, where an
overvalued franc and failure of the
recent issue of “baby bonds" by the
Treasury stood in the way of the Blum
Ministry carrying out its programme,
which in turn resulted in an efflux of
gold from that country —it is estimated
that over £11,000,000 worth of the metal
was exported from France last week.
In these circumstances the French Gov-
ernment was compelled to lean heavily
upon the Bank of France, and, to help
steady exchange rates and the outflow of
gold, the bank lifted its discount rate to
5 p.c. last week. Further, with costs on the
up-grade, manufacturers unable to re-
capture export trade, and lack of public
support for Government bonds in the
loan market, France has been compelled
to revalue the franc again. In the finan-
cial sense, France got badly out of step
with Britain and the U.S.A., alter the
war. In an effort to pick up the cadence
the franc was revalued in 1927 at 20 p.c.
of its former statutory gold content.
After that, Britain and the U.S.A. altered
the gold tunes to which their traders
danced, and France found itself out of
step once more.
Last week the Governments of the
three countries decided to co-operate in
an adjustment of the sterling-dollar-
franc exchanges—efforts at international
stabilisation of currencies that wrecked
the World Economic Conference of 1933
were premature. The basis of the agree-
ment is reported to be the holding of the
franc at 105, and the dollar at 4.86, to
the pound sterling, ratios which are not
likely to cause any major disturbance in
the markets, and which look like having
a fair chance of becoming permanent.
In this connection, much will depend
upon what happens in connection with
the dollar. For this reason Britain main-
tains an independent attitude with re-
gard to sterling, refusing at the moment
to give the pound statutory stability on a
gold or any other basis.
It is estimated that revaluation will
yield the French Government, which
intends to impose a tax equal to
the difference between the old and
new paper value of gold, a profit of
over £175,000,000 sterling. To maintain
the stability of the franc at the new rate,
an equalisation fund of 10,000,000,000
francs is to be established by the French
Government. To what extent repatria-
tion of French gold is likely to take
place will depend largely upon confidence
in French political conditions. French
exporters can be expected to benefit, but
gains in this respect may be largely offset
by the added cost of imported raw
materials. Hopes are that French textile
manufacturers will be able to buy more
Australian wool, despite its increased cost
to them in francs.
Under the new agreement, gold is
worth about £7 3s. per fine ounce in
London. On Sept. 25 the figure was
£6 17s. 9id. A raid on sterling in New
York was frustrated by the U.S. Treasury
taking the £1,000,000 offered by the
Soviet.
Peninsula Tin, N.L., was registered in
Melbourne in April, 1926, to develop
8,000,000 c.y. of tin-bearing ground at
Langsuen, Southern Siam. An unsuit-
able dredge was ordered from Werf
Conrad, and exhausted its available yard-
age in 1934, making small profits but
paying no dividends to its shareholders,
the shares being then quoted around ss.
Another striking example of inefficient
equipment, etc., spoiling what should have
been a payable enterprise. In 1934 the
directors were fortunate in making an
arrangement with the ownersof anadjoin-
ing property containing 36,000,000 c.y. of
41b. ground controlled by the Alluvial
Tin group whereby an amalgamation
was consummated on a 50-50 basis. The
dredge has been entirely reconditioned
out of profits made since the merger, its
capacity increased to 150,000 yards per
month, and it is still working in the old
Peninsula tailings with apparently satis-
factory results, as two quarterly divi-
dends have already been declared. With
the present equipment a long life is
assured, and as the ground, consisting of
soft decomposed schist, is stated to be
well suited for bucket dredging, the
future of the co. will depend entirely
upon the price of the metal.
* * * *
Apart from the main area, not yet
completely check-bored, Rawang Tin
Fields, in the Anglo-Oriental Malay
stable, reckons it has 50,000,000 c.y.,
containing 9000 tons tin oxide, available
for dredging, or 1416 acres altogether.
For the year to March 31 last the co.’s
quota was 18.2 p.c. greater at 51.5 p.c.
No. 2 dredge dug 2,976,000 c.y. of
ground for 752 tons of tin oxide, an aver-
age of .561 b. per c.y. (down .091 b.). The
sluicing plant treated a further 928,000
c.y. for 463 tons to., recovery here being
1.121 b. Costs per yard were !,97d.
(down .04d.) and 4.54 d. respectively.
Sales turned in £160,532. Including £9878
from sale of buffer stocks, working
profit was £32,745 better at £119,847. Of
this depreciation took £23,627,. and divs.
£65,700 (= 9d. per share). For bucket-
band replacement £4OOO has been
allowed, and £15,000 has been set aside
against cost of deviating the Serendah
River. Negotiations are proceeding for
acquisition of surface rights on the Bang
Toe area. At March 31, property was
valued at £452,300.; dredges, plant, etc.,
£227,938 ; liquids, £283,462. Creditors
figured for £12,948.
Hs * Jjs #
Including £6547 from sale of buffer
stocks, Rawang Concessions, another of
Anglo-Oriental’s > Malay team, netted
£35,809 (down £14,721) for the year to
March 31. That was before setting aside
£6966 for depreciation. Poorer ground
treated and low metal prices were mainly
responsible for the drop. An interim
div. in November called for £lO,OOO, and
a final Is. 6d. per share has been sent
out since close of accounts. Quota re-
lease was 51.5 p.c., against 33.3 p.c. in
the previous term. The dredge, closed
down for 24 months for repairs, treated
2,103,000 c.y. for 359 tons tin oxide
(assay value, 75.7 p.c. metallic tin), a
recovery of .381 b. per c.y. (down ,26d.);
costs (2.06 d.) took .29d. less. Sales
brought in £46,116, an average of £213
14s. 4d. per ton. The co. has 19,000,000
c.y., containing approx. 4900 tons t. 0.,
still to treat, in addition to 5,400,000 c.y.
to be reworked, giving the area an approx,
life of 10 years at present rate of dredg-
ing. At balance date property stood in
the books at £138,610 ; dredge, etc., at
£68,924. There were liquids totalling
£55,070 to offset £l6lO coming to out-
siders.
* * * *
With the lift in its quota to 51.5 p.c.,
Kampong Lanjut, also a member of the
Anglo-Oriental group, put both dredges
to work last term, when 4,646,000 c.y.
was turned over for 672 tons t.o. No. 1
dug 1,408,000 c.y. and No. 2 3,238,000
c.y., recoveries being .251 b. and .361 b.,
and costs 2.2 d. and 1.96 d., per yard re-
spectively. Sales realised £89,894; equals
£213 3s. 9d. per ton. Before providing
£13,433 for depreciation and £6500 for
bucket - band replacement, earnings
(£53,976) were £31,416 better. Share-
holders were handed Is. 6d. a share
(= £22,500). The co. has some 900 acres
(90,000,000 c.y.) of virgin ground, con-
taining approx. 10,500 tons t. 0., still to
treat. At last balance liquids totalled
£60,309 ; liabilities, £3912. Dredges, etc.,
figured at £163,954, and property at
£122,000.
* * * *
On Mandated Alluvials’ Sapphire lease
(Papua) in No. 6 adit, one of the princi-
pal workings, oxidised ore tapers at
95ft. in one drive, and for the
next 10ft. is in sulphides averaging 9dwt.
The last 20ft. of the oxides gave similar-
values. No. 4 shaft was sunk 20ft. be-
tween Aug. 25 and Sept. 15, and values
went 24.6dwt. over a width of 6ft.,
neither wall being disclosed. At 90ft. the
shaft cut a fault, and a similar fault has
been met with in other workings. Ore is
being developed on both sides of the
break.
* • # * *
J. Forsythe, pioneer miner of the
Batavia diggings, intends to. transfer his
sft. Huntington mill from Batavia to
Coen, Cape York Peninsula, to recover
the gold from the mullock dumps
at the old Great Northern mine. With a
milling plant on the spot, old hands de-
clare that the mine could be profitably
developed again. Only one reef has been
worked ; from 1893 to 1916 it yielded
49,5920 z. from 23,196 tons. The shaft,
down 480 ft., is full of water, but the mine
is a dry one. Lack of capital caused a
local syndicate to cease operations at
the Hamilton field, where the last 60
tons returned 50oz. North-east of Coen,
Blue Mountains Gold, N.L., is working
five mines, all of which promise to be
profitable. At Bairdsville, Peter Larsen’s
Consolidated Co. has 500 tons ready for
crushing when the rains commence in
November. There the shaft is down 53ft.
on an Bft. reef. Another party has
located a new 12in. reef near by.
He * * *
Two N.Q. fields that have jumped into
prominence with rich crushings are Kel-
sey Creek, Proserpine district, and Fluor-
spar, Chillagoe. At Kelsey Creek the
last 8± tons from the Duffer yielded
73+oz. of gold and 24|oz. of silver;
from previous crushings, aggregating 65
tons, a total of 4320 z. of gold and 450 z.
of silver was obtained. Five shafts have
been sunk on the reef, which is 2ft. wide
in places. At Fluorspar the last 1 ton
2cwt. of ore from Hiker’s returned 350 z.
of gold. Previous crushings averaged
about 2oz. A couple of other Fluor-
spar shows are promising, notably the
Blue Ensign, from which two recent
parcels, aggregating 7 tons, yielded over
15oz. of gold.
* * * *
Chinaman’s Creek, about 15 miles from
Maleny (Q.), where much alluvial was
won 50 years ago, is being prospected
again. One party is working profitable
sands at the head of the creek, while
lower down, at the foot of Cooroora
Mountain, some promising reefs have
been located. At the old Jimna diggings,
30 miles from Kilcoy, several new lodes
are being worked, but crushings to date
have averaged only a few ’weights.
* * * *
Over the last three months the tin-
fields around Cooktown (N.Q.) have
yielded 27 tons 9cwt. of tin, valued at
£3945. Operations are in progress at
Mount Romeo, Mount Poverty, Ross-
ville, Mount Amos, China Camp and
Shipton’s Flat. Gold Areas, Ltd., a
Sydney co., has ,been testing an extensive
area at Mount Poverty. At Mount Hart-
ley (Rossville) a large area of tin-bearing
ground has also been located, but water
will have to be pumped some distance to
a height of;at least 200 ft. before the find
can be profitably worked.
Latest profits of Corbett’s Gold, Bol-
warrah (Vic.), show a contraction of
£lBO4 to £967 on the previous year’s,
owing to heavy costs and the falling-
away of values at 200ft.,-where the reef
widens out. For the term to June 30,
3375 tons was crushed for 1151 oz.
standard gold, a further 3960 z. being
obtained by cyanidation of 2367 tons.
Development and battery exes., etc., took
£2 6s. 9d. a ton, and cyanidation 4s. lid.
The shaft is to be deepened a further
100 ft., and prospecting is proceeding at
the 300 ft. level, where a gold-bearing
shoot is reported to be increasing in
length as it goes down. When the books
closed, liabilities, excluding a contingent
liability of £2002, exceeded current assets
bv £2244.
* * * *
Briseis Consolidated Tin, Derby (Tas.),
was attacking the old channel of the
Ringarooma River, 160 feet below
present river level, and had just reached
the rich bottom drifts when the work-
ings were flooded again. The flood of
1930 overwhelmed the old' Briseis Co.’s
workings, and caused the death of 15
men. That time a dam burst; this time
it was a repetition of the Yallourn trouble.
Heavy rains flooded the river, which
burst over and through the levee, making
a lake of the excavations, it is a setback,
but not a disaster. With power from the
Hydro-electric already at the works, and
a large dam constructed to supplement
the big water-race, there is little doubt
that the rich bottom drifts will soon be
within reach again.
* * * *
The price of Commonwealth Mining
and Finance shares fell in London, fol-
lowing the report that 350,000 shares had
been issued to Australian Machinery and
Investment Co. in exchange for all the
shares in Aladdin, Atlas and Hercules
cos. The original option held by Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance over
these shares provided that the purchase
price in each case should be £15,000 cash,
plus 15 p.c. of the capital of any cos.
formed to work the properties. Such capi-
tal was fixed at not less than £350,000 in
each case, of which a minimum of
£150,000 had to be offered for public
subscription. These options were exercised
on May 8, 1935, under an arrangement
whereby Commonwealth Mining and
Finance paid £45,000 cash and obtained
an 18 months’ extension of the period
during which the three projected cos. had
to be formed. On July 13 last the pur-
chase agreement was altered again, and
the Australian Machinery and Investment
Co. waived its right to insist on the for-
mation of three new companies in
return for the issue of 350,000 Common-
wealth Mining and Finance shares.
* * *
Lanarkshire’s luck is still out. Last
year’s loss of £94 reduced cash assets to
£63. Since formation in 1920 the co. has
drawn several blanks in Westralia, but
it is still hopeful. Only nominal exes, are
being incurred.
IN VEX TORS.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
# # * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS —
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy. — Advt.
% * * *
ORES.—.Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.


o
laiiiillliliiiil
GARRICK
FILTER TIP
CICfl R ETTES
The Garrick Filter Tip
delivers to your throat and
palate the pure benefits of
an entirely new and differ-
ent blend of fine VIRGINIA
tobaccos (a Garrick
specialty)
A sectional view of
the patented Scienti-
fic Garrick Filter Tip.
s
£
1
1
£
N
G
C'


ABORIGINALITIES
“Oran”: Bill, our street’s Irish terrier,
had had a terrific fight with an Airedale,
and when he crawled home a horrified
master rushed him to the nearest vet. In
three weeks William was himself again.
Then one morning the ’phone rang and
the vet. reported a badly-mauled Irish
terrier, recognised as Bill, on his door-
step. Bill’s master was so overcome by
this exhibition of canine intelligence that
he paid the second account with pride
and approbation.
“Kriz”: Has any Aboliar ever come
across a bald Binghi? Among the abos.
of the sou’-western portion of Groper-
land there is a curious custom called the
too-ah, which is rigidly practised. When
Jacky carries Mary off to his gunyah,
he and the mother of his bride must
avoid one another like the very debil-
debil. He is not allowed to speak or
even look at her, and she is not allowed
to enter his gunyah or have any truck
with him whatever. Binghi believes
that should he infringe the tribal law
he will become bald, whilst the old
dame will turn grey. Many intelligent
white people reckon Binghi is without
brains, but my friend Bloggsy, whose
ma-in-law gives him a dog’s life, reckons
the nig.’s ancestors knew their onions.
* * * *
“K’bundah”: Lightning-struck trees
will burn all right. Almost every bush-
man has seen a tree burning near the top
in stormy weather. I saw lightning
strike a tree near Wingham (N.S.W.).
There was a flash, the lightning came
down a branch of a dead tree and ex-
ploded in the fork, making a bluey-green
flame about the size of an inflated chaff-
bag. That tree burned for days before
the top fell off.
* * * *
“Cetacean”: “Del Norte’s” basking
shark (B. 12/8/’36) which feeds on
micro - organisms, “screening them
through his gill-slits after the manner
of certain of the whales,” is quite a
common creature around Australian
coasts, but I should certainly like to
meet one of his whales. Whales are
mammals, and as such breathe by means
of lungs, the nostril being situated on
the top of the head. Gills are never
present. It is the outrush of air through
this nostril which causes the character-
istic spout. Water is screened through
the long hairs found on the lower edge
of the sheets of baleen or whalebone
which are suspended from the roof of
the mouth. Water is taken into the
mouth, and then escapes through the
sides, the small organisms being en-
trapped in the hairs.
# * * =s=
“The 0.D.”: Can’t agree with “Kelly”
(B. 2/9/’36). We painted a crow red
and let him go. Instead of his brothers
trying to execute him they lit out for
the back country as fast as pinions could
take them, with the scarlet one hot on
their heels, no doubt wondering why
they wouldn’t stop and play with him.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Bogaduck’s” team-
ster (B, 2/9/’36) whose horses responded
only to pidgin English wouldn’t have
struck trouble if he and the team had
been schooled properly. For starting a
team you can’t beat a whistle. It applies
equally to each member, and is never
mistaken for anything else. One short,
sharp blast is better than all your
“c’mons,” “giddaps” and “sted-ups.”
Also, it’s surprising the note of authority
an old hand can infuse into it.
* * *
“Horsetailer”: Those world’s tallest
pepperment-trees in the Speck (B.
26/8/’36) were used to build the breaks
water at Dover (Eng.) just before the
war. Because of their exceptional length
windjammers had to be charted and
their decks partly torn up to load them.
The only way steamers could have
handled them would have been to carry
them lashed alongside their waterline.
* * * *
“Poopoonbah”: I’ve waited a long
time to get one back on the man who
writes the humorous and candid little
rejection notices. In an answer to
“C.8.C.” (B. 9/9/’36) he questions the
marine turtle’s ability to sigh. Turn a
captured turtle on its back and it will
give you a classic example of a sigh that
you can hear half a mile away on a still
night, and will keep it up for hours.
But keep on the windward side while the
sighing continues, for a turtle doesn’t
read “mouth-wash” ads., and even his
best friends won’t tell him.
* * * *
“Billy See”: A tight fist like “Ruralia's”
skinflint (B. 26/8/’36) was so completely
lacking in artistry that he could have,
and should have, easily been knocked
back. But you couldn’t knock back old
Jack W., who kept a pub in a W.A.
goldfields town. Never known to shout
but always willing to drink, Jack main-
tained bonhomie with a dicebox kept
“Show a leg, Arthur —spring s come!"
under the counter. Given a fifty-mile lift
one day in the local picture-show pro-
prietor’s car, he was landed right at his
hotel door. “That,” he remarked stretch-
ing himself, “is what 1 call a proper
ride. How about stepping in and I’ll
shake you for the drinks?”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Them coves who could
only do 40 miles a day with the “ride-
and-tie” method (B. 9/ 9/ ’36) ought’ve
sold the prad and bought an old bike.
Me and Mat left Euston with one bike
between us one Sunday mornin’ about
seven o’clock for Mildura, 55 miles
away. We used the bike as them coves
used the prad; ridin’ ahead, leavin’ the
bike and walkin’ till the other cove rode
ahead and left it, and so on ; and we
had a feed at Raftopluos’s cafe in Lang-
tree-avenue at 12.15 that day. The old
river road was no pavement, and it took
half an hour to cross the river by hand
punt at Gol Gol. Given reasonable
weather and any sort of a track, 111
back the bike against the prad any day
for long journeys in the back country.
That cove who started the know-alls
goin’ in The Bullateen about tidin’ a
horse from Australia to England for the
coronation ’ud make a certainty of it,
in half the time, if he rode a grid.
* * * *
“Rainbow”: The kookaburra isn’t
backward in coming forward where a
feed is concerned. One swooped down
and helped himself to a sausage that was
sizzling with others in a pan over the
open fire near our tent. Apparently
Jacky has a salamandrous beak, for there
was nothing forced about his subsequent
laughter.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Birds of prey keep
very much to their own territory, particu-
larly during the nesting season. Wedge-
tailed eagles do not as a rule hunt in the
immediate vicinity of their nest, but they
seem to have a definite hunting area, and
on the open downs of Queensland at least'
it is very unusual to see four ’hawks at
the one time, though they are fairly
numerous. The boundary between the
territories of two pairs of dark-brown
falcons is about a mile from our home-
stead. As I ride home one pair follow
and catch the grasshoppers and small
birds my horse startles out of the grass
until I reach a particular whitewood-tree,
when the next pair take over. They are,
I think, the fastest fliers in our west, but
slow at dodging.
* * * *
“Lepper”: Coming home from the
Show Joe was full of the praise of his
horse and Bung’s wares. Barring the fact
that he had forgotten to nominate him,
Joe reckoned Snowden would have won
the high jump blindfolded. To prove his
words, he pushed Snowden at the five-
barred gate into the horse paddock.
Maybe Snowden was affected by his
rider’s alcoholic content, for he took off
about two leaps too far back. He put
up a good effort, though; hit the top
rail of the gate as he was coming
down at the end of his jump, and
stayed there, with the second rail
under his flank and his hind feet a foot
or two off the ground, helpless. That
was one miracle ; another was that Joe
stayed in the saddle. Unconscious of the
fact that he was tip-tilted behind, and
hanging over his mount’s wither, Joe was
patting Snowden on the neck while we
were running round looking for some-
thing to release the horse. “Besh blinkin
jumper in th’ coun’ry,” Joe muttered.
“Berrer’n any cirshus horse. Any of
’em can jump a rail; it takes me an
Snow’en t’ go up an’ never come down
again! ”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The blacksmith in our
W.Q. town scorns the niceties of double
entry in his business accounting, inscrib-
ing his clients’ indebtedness on any
handy medium of record, usually a piece
of timber. When old Wiregrass came in
in a hurry for his account the smith
looked round for it perplexedly, then,
suddenly remembering, called out to his
assistant: “Hey, Tom, go round town
and find Moloney’s grocer’s cart. I used
me ledger with Mr. Wiregrass’s account
on it to repair the tailboard.” The same
blacksmith as Mayor was reckoned to
be the shrewdest financier his western
municipality ever elected to its council.
* * * *
“Bludanbone”: Although the ocean
may average two miles deep, marine life
of any importance docs not descend
much below 300 feet. So 10,000 tons ol
cyanide sprinkled from ’planes could get
in pretty good work before being lost in
the lifeless lower depths. The plank-
ton upon which all fish life is based
would certainly go About 10 years ago
the s.s. Gorgon took fire in Fremantle
Harbor, the flames opening a few cases
of cyanide, which formed part of the
cargo. Flooding of the hold became
necessary, and when later this water was
pumped out it littered the banks of the
Swan for a mile or so back with poisoned
fish.
“Kasi”: I can endorse the claim that
bandicoot is a delicious morsel. One
should get someone else to singe or
otherwise remove the fur, for the little
chap is the lousiest of living creatures,
save the flying-fox. The bandy should
be roasted in his skin like a sucking pig,
and the crackling is just as delicious. The
flying-fox is also a delicate dish, but he
must be skinned to get rid of the musky
odor. The fruit-fed flesh is white and
tender as that of a broiled chicken.
* * * *
“Vante”: Apparently the water-rat
fishes for its tucker. Just after daylight
I saw one on a half-submerged stone.
.Suddenly it jumped backwards and
landed on the bank with a small crab
attached to its tail. Self-service meal
followed.
“Wah”: Over the telephone Cowbails
was ordering a part urgently required
for his cream separator. Three minutes
elapsed while the firm was eliciting his
address and the make and size of his
machine. “Do you want an extension?”
interrupted exchange. “No, blast it ain t
1 been tellin’ y’ I want a rubber ring
for the separator,” he shouted.
! Ia 5“ JS* “ “ ■
He wasted about a gallon. #
«. jvledical science offers no
t - d ‘ te ’ f or t b e virulent poison of
Queensland . s jung i e stinging-trees and
remedies, while relieving
immediate pa j nj rar ely prevent swelling
of i n fl am ed glands and partial paralysis
of limbs. The leaves are covered with
microscop i C) venom-laden spears, which
p j erce th e skin at slightest contact, and
no thing short of their removal is real y
effective. This is best done by shaving
the
“to Z tape adhere
firmly to tta Then "P tape ,c& wtth
J W J ut on the .a P pe.
THE FEEL OF THINGS.
Old Jim is shifting camp again, Ins cait is
loaded high; , . , ,
He’s off to try another place he s always wished
AiuMf lie cannot strike the reef he hopes to
find therein ...
It won’t be long before he ll give some othci
field a spin.
For Jim insists there’s loolishness in sticking
to a spot , ~ , . .
Unless you’re sure there s gold about and
that you’ll find the lot.
You mustn't be content to wait lor what to-
morrow brings,
For in this game you’ve got to have the propet
feel of things.
To have a chance at all you’ve got to get it
in your mind ... , ,
That there is still a lot ol gold somewhere lor
you to find. ~ .
You’ve got to feel quite certain the old-timers
missed a bit,
And then to feel as sure that you are getting
close to it.
So Jim is shifting camp again, his cart and
hopes are high;
To-morrow as the sun appears he 11 shout his
last good-bye.
And we are hoping soon to hear for Jim is
really old —
That at long last his “feel of things has put
him on the gold.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Desert Rat”: How long anyone can
survive without water depends on sur-
roundings. Keith Anderson and Bob
Hitchcock, marooned on the desert be-
tween Powell Creek and Wave Hill,
lasted two days—April 10 to 12. But
a deaf and dumb prospector one night
walked into a 50ft. shaft just out from
Leonora (W.A.), and, unable to call out,
waited five days with nothing to drink.
Of course, the cool depths of the shaft
helped him, but his performance is easily
the best I’ve ever heard of.
* * * *
Beesknees : Strange as it may seem,
the fox appears unable to break emu
eggs. In nor’-west N.S.W. foxes are
more plentiful at present than they’ve
been for years, and emus also abound.
I have come across dozens of emu eggs
in different parts of my scrub land with
the green coloring of the shell practically
scraped off and the foxes’ teeth-marks
quite distinguishable. Never have I seen
an egg so marked broken.
* * * *
“Orion”: In a crocodile-infested part
ol N.Q. I saw four dingoes standing on
the bank of a stream. Suddenly they set
up a din of howling, and kept at it until
ripples on the surface of the placid water
denoted that all the crocs, about the
locality were making towards the quar-
! e J-. Then, all at once, the dingoes ceased
their howling, dashed off at full speed
a ong the bank for about 200 yards,
plunged in and swam across safelv
_ * * =1= * '
“Gippy”: I n my time on the roads
old carriers used to broach casked liquid
cargo with the buckle of a stirrup-leather
Ihe tongue of the buckle, blunt with a
rounded tip, didn’t cut the r wood when
inserted between two staves, but only
bruised it slightly and pressed it aside,
the buckle hasp was strong, just right
tor a lever to be pressed through it, for
prising out without leaving a trace. When
the stuff had been drawn, and after a
peg had been rammed home to
stop the leak, the hoop was
knocked back over the spot. No
one would know that cask had
been tapped until the trusting
party at the other end opened
it. I’ve seen casks which had
their insides pricked like an in-
verted porcupine. There were
dozens of other methods, from
hot water in the form of a poul-
tice to the nave of the wheel
lor bottled stuff, but the tongue
of the stirrup buckle was the
daddy of ’em all.
* * *
“H.S.G.”: Attacks by wild
pigs on humans are quite
authentic (B. 2/9/’36). On the
Flinders (N.Q.) a swagman, sub-
ject to fits, was polished off by
hungry swine. During drought
they thrive on carcasses of sheep
and cattle. Mobs of 50 or so
are common, the boars lean-
flanked, long-tusked, and ugly.
During the day the pigs will
scatter at the appearance of a
horseman, but at night it is a
different story. Camped close
to the only waterhole within '
miles, I have spent an anxious
night with the brutes grunting
and squealing all around and
encroaching right within the circle of fire-
light. Domestic boars can be savage
enough, but to have the wild variety root-
ing and fighting in the long grass at spit-
ting distance from the blankets makes
the dozing overlander glad of the feel
of a cold, rifle barrel at his side.
.* * * *
“Orford”: Another importation show-
ing signs of becoming a serious pest is
the green cestrum, a plant indigenous
to South America. It has recently
caused the death in Queensland of cattle
and poultry. Horses seldom touch the
weed, but cattle will eat it if fresh feed
is scarce. It is a shrub about four feet
high, with dull-green leaves and a yel-
lowish flower.
“D'y Want ALL the road ?”
“Nailil”: Though turtle eggs are a
prized delicacy to the Torres Strait abo.
he selects them carefully. When the nest
is discovered the number of eggs in the
hole is noted. Should they fall below a
certain number —usually about 20 —
Binghi will refuse them. Why, is not
clear ; certainly it is not because of fear
of their maturity, for Binghi’s spartan
stomach can assimilate eggs that reek
to high heaven, and which contain fully-
formed baby turtles.
* * * *
“Woorak”: I struck a veteran Matilda-
man preparing his bed. “What’s the idea
of that scheme?” I asked, seeing him put-
ting gum-leaves on the embers of a fire.
“That’s a gum-steam-bed,” he drawled.
“These coals are just hot enough to
smoulder the leaves a bit and make a
vapor that’ll ward off cold —and the
damn’ mosquitoes, too. This is the bed
“Can you direct me to Muggs'-alley ?"
First to the right, an keep on till you get ’it with a bottle."
to keep a man warm,” and he spread
out on the gum-leaves first some dry
grass and then an old blanket. “It’ll hold
the heat overnight.” I suggested that
he might set himself afire and end up a
roasted corpse. “No chance o’ that,”
he grinned. “I’ve been sleepin’ on beds
like this for 20 years or more.”
* * * *
“Vex”: On the beach at Tugun (Q.)
an old-age pensioner has what is per-
haps the strangest habitation in Aus-
tralia—a house about 30ft. by 40ft.,
divided into two sections, and composed
entirely of beer, whisky, rum and wine
bottles. It has been standing for more
than 12 years, and is still in good con-
dition. The owner formerly owned
fashionable hotels in London and Paris ;
perhaps his abode keeps memory fresh.
* * * *
“.Spud”: Some of the much-boomed
old-time timber-getters would have to
be flat out to beat a record made by a
young Westralian clearer who deserted
the big timber for nice contracts on the
wheat belt when everyone was growing
the golden grain. Unaided he cut down
45 acres of white gum, she-oak and jam-
tree in days. The timber was easy to
cut, but still it would take an outstand-
ing man to beat the record.
“Laetitia”: The surest tribute to the
speed of the porpoise is its comparative
immunity from the spears of Torres
Strait islanders; it is the only sea
creature able to elude their casts. I
have heard of only one instance of a
porpoise having been speared, and that
achievement is related to the great lau-
dation of a Badu islander, who got one
in mistake for a dugong. Binghi’s spear-
cast is made in a split second, and his
aim is so accurate that even when his
cast is made some fathoms below sur-
face in a reef cavern he can unfailingly
transfix a fish between , the eyes, thus
piercing the brain, rendering death in-
stantaneous and so preventing stampede
of the rest of the school by a death-
flutter on the spear-point.
“Warrigal”: A few more pointers on
townies and bushmen. On horseback,
the townie will push all sliprails right
back, instead of dropping them at the
foot of the mortised post. What’s more,
he’ll try to do it from the saddle, instead
of dismounting. The city-bred chap will
generally unbuckle a crupper and fasten
it after the surcingle, instead of slipping
it on when the saddle is loose. Park
horsemen seldom stand up to a jog volun-
tarily, and can usually be picked from
a distance by a walk-and-canter combi-
nation. Finally, the city-bred—and it’s
one to him —usually loosens the bit be-
fore leaving a saddled nag to graze.
Outside the ranks of the Light Horse, in
which it was done under compulsion, no
bushman ever developed that habit.
* * * *
“Joe”: Dad took us all crabbing to
the Swan (W.A.) in his springcart, ordi-
narily used on a bottle-oh round. “You’ll
do no good throwing your lines out from
the beach,” dad advised. “Stay in the
cart and I’ll show yer my idea.” He
backed Dobbin in until the wafer was
just about level with the floorboards.
“Now you’ve got as good as a jetty to
toss into deep water from. Sit down,
mum; keep quiet. It’s quite all right.”
It certainly brought us into touch with
the deep-water crabs, and dad had just
dip-netted the dozenth and was con-
gratulating himself for the umpteenth time
on his idea when the S.S. Zephyr swept
past, leaving the usual tidal-wave wake.
Belly-deep, Dobbin lost his footing and
floated, while the cart with dad and
mum and the other six of us began to
roll down into 15 feet of water. Dobbin
made valiant efforts to swim (he was
the only swimmer among us), but the
cart refused to float, and we were all
about on tiptoe and only Dobbin’s nose
showing when, fortunately, the harness
broke (it was bottle-oh’s harness, and most
of the string had seen better days), and
we all managed to get ashore attached
to the faithful animal. Dad’s cart still
lies on the bed of the Swan, perhaps a
home for those dozen crabs.
* . * * *
“Western”: My idea of game fishing
is not to sit in a luxurious swivel chair
in an elaborately fitted motor-launch,
armed with the latest foolproof tackle,
but to wade abo. style, barefooted,
spearing estuary catfish or cobbler.
Missed by the spear, cobblers, especially
the big ones, have a nasty habit of turn-
ing and charging back. Countering
such a charge while still endeavoring to
get a thrust home is real sport—with the
possible forfeit of receiving a slash from
one of the three poisonous barbed spurs,
followed by 40-odd hours of as dire
agony as is possible for a human to
suffer. The win, of course, is a feed of
as nice a fish as is put in a frying pan.
BALLADE OF A BUCOLIC
BUGBEAR.
Where spinifex or mulga' grows,
By coastal plateau, inland plain,
Where deep and broad the river flows,
Or hill stream murmurs its refrain;
Whether it’s cattle, sheep or grain
That’s being raised, will come the roar
When moon and stars are on the wane:
“It’s gettin’ late—it’s after four!”
It deals a death-knell to the doze;
It hammers loudly on the brain
When in a dreamless, deep repose
You lie and could for hours remain.
Deafness you’ll simulate in vain.
Dad’s horselike kick will bang the door;
Comes that reiterated bane:
“It’s gettin’ late —it’s after four!”
It’s heard before the “cark” of crows
Rings raucously in their domain.
Much later Jacky’s laughter goes
lo tell that night the dawn has slain.
The laggard sparrow will abstain
From chasing early worms before
There comes in sharp, impatient strain:
“It's*gettin’ late—it’s after four !”
Envoy.
Prince! can you wonder that we’re fain
To hear boss-cockies set less store
On words which give us all a pain:
“It’s gettin’ late—it’s after four!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


No. 5593
m
mm
PREVEKTS
BACK
BOOT
from
SACiCtINC.
BOOT
GUSSET
SIDES
PR.fc.VEH'
G«tASS
S&EOS
CNtERW
Ki BP
EXTPA'
STRENGTH-
ENING
£doT
r
DOUBLE
SOIEVEO
SOLE
ALL SIZES
IN BLACK.
OR. TAN CALF
60 BLACK V/AULABY
b rot h sc. wsMmm
UV QueeoS«t«iSk
‘SINCE
1834
PETTY'S Hotel
102 years of service and progress—Petty’s Hotel. To-day Pettys is still
favoured—for its air of comfort, and its position; quiet, yet convenient
to all business and social centres. New features include new private
lounge and private dining room, hot and cold water, etc.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
ror E. YOUNGS, Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
H ad A)iL4tD£, S9JTT AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 805 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
£1,250,000
1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. - •• ■»
Reserve Fund .. . •• ••
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.-l.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tUr
world.
Prafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted*
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Jetting and Crutching.
“Ghanam”: Calcium arsenite solution
seems to give a longer protection than
most other mixtures. N. S. Wales Agri-
cultural Department, after experiments
at Trangie, found the period about 41-
weeks in 1933-34 season and about four
to five in 1934-35 —there was limited in-
festation of about 15 p.c. after a month.
The 1935-36 experiments showed some
departures from previous practice. It
was decided to discover the value and
cost of repeated jetting of breeding
ewes, July shorn and March crutched,
by comparison with spring crutching and
hand-dressing only.
A flock of 765 was used in three
groups of 255 each, with sheep types
evenly distributed —as many “wrinklies,”
for instance, in one flock as in each of
the others.
The fly began work in October. The
sheep in the first group were jetted with
calcium arsenite (JO-10-11-lOO) on Oct.
25 and again on Nov. 27, April 21 and
May 29. The second and third flocks
were crutched on Oct. 26 ; all three on
March 10. In the second and third flocks,
all struck sheep were dressed, but those
in No. 1 were dressed only in great
emergency. Rams were joined early in
November and lambing finished on
May 18.
The net results may be summarised
as follows: Deaths for the year
totalled 19.
In the jetted flock 41 strikes were
dressed —excluding those treated on. the
crutching board—during the whole
season. Flock 2 had 95 dressed and
flock 3 254. The value of crutcnings orf
the jetted sheep was from 54d. to 7|d.
per pound ; of those from the other
flocks respectively 3|d. to 6-td. and 4|d.
to 7d. The jetters showed no deaths
during lambing ; the other groups two and
three. There were more tender fleeces
among the crutched and hand-dressed
groups than among the jetters, which also
yielded an average of 12oz. per sheep
more wool than the hand-dressed and
J 01b. loz. more than the crutched. Esti-
mated cost per head was 3|d. jetted, 2|d.
crutched and Hd. hand-dressed: Only
39 p.c. lambs were marked from the
jetted, but the department is not sure
whether jetting was responsible, in view
of some abnormal conditions. The other
rates were 53 p.c. from crutched and 46
p.c. from the hand-dressed.
It will be noted that the autumn jet-
tings, though they reduced hand treat-
ment, did not wipe out the necessity for
it —only 54 p.c. of jetters as compared
with 68 p.c" of the others needed handling
within live weeks of jetting. One crutch-
ing in spring gave more protection than
two jettings, but the spring crutching, by
shortening the staple, reduced the value
of crutchings.
Evidently, spring jetting was the most
economical, and both crutching and jet-
ting are preferable to hand-dressing. Jet-
ting certainly improved wool production,
and seems to have been generally bene-
ficial.
Arsenic Precautions.
“Ovis”: A Queensland inquiry com-
mittee, presided over by the State health
officer, recently made some remarks
about shearing-shed conditions which
will sound strange in the ears of old
hands.
It was reported that dust, flies, heat
and noise, combined with overwork,
while bending, were likely to generate
symptoms suggestive of arsenical poison-
ing. So shearers were advised not to
work too hard in an effort to become
ringers.
The committee seemed to be unde-
cided about the extent of arsenical
poisoning, but it recommended a set of
precautions which are easy to follow. It
believes that arsenic jetting mixtures
should have an oily base. Men should
wash at smoke-oh and after knocking off,
so as not to carry poison into their sys-
tems from their hands. Cooking
arrangements should be safeguarded
along with the water supply. The com-
mittee points out that certain people
are specially susceptible to arsenic and
must keep well away from the poison.
"Mine tinkit 'er ploomin' 'ead tao big f'r 'er shoes!"
Green Manuring.
“Lion”: Curious that more land-
owners don’t improve their poor arable
ground by green-manuring. I have in-
creased poor-country yield over 100 p.c.
by this method, both in Africa and here.
Green manure maintains fertility in
already growing profitable fields, and in-
creases their yield. It is cheaper and
quicker than any other expedient, and
it is the only effective way to deal with
some types of soil. It builds up humus,
thus aiding the conservation of moisture
and helping bacteriological action.
Plough the land, give one cultivation
to level the ploughing, and sow with
peas, beans, lupins or any similar locally
suitable crop. Use |cwt. sulphate
ammonia and lcwt. super, per acre. The
former produces an abundance of green
leaves and increases the quantity of
available manure in the shortest time.
When the maximum amount of green
growth has been produced, plough it
into the soil again. Be careful not to
feed it off at any stage.
Light sandy soils, also heavy clays, re-
spond rapidly to this treatment. Where
the country is very poor, more than one
treatment will be needed. The results
will more than justify outlay.
I believe that green-manuring may be-
come the most important factor in con-
trolling the impoverishment of our soils.
It has been extensively used in Eng-
land in the past, and is more than ever in
vogue now in spite of “modern”
methods.
In Africa I built up a practically
barren paddock in three years, using
method described, until it could produce
as much millet and teff (Eragrostis abys-
sinica) as our best arable lands.
In any district where mustard will
grow, it should be used, for it is quick
and prolific and the seed is cheap.
How’s the Binder?
“Nabawa”: Overhaul of the binder
now will save time later. Clean the
machine thoroughly and remove grease.
Use an old knife, a stiff brush and kero-
sene mixed with sump oil.
Inspect every wearing part. If crop
wheel caused side draught or rolling down
last season, draw bottom in towards
platform by using adjustment from plat-
form to crop wheel hanger. If crop
doesn’t come straight to platform you
can’t get a good sheaf, and it won t come
straight if the reel is out of order. Use
adjustment to level beaters with cutter
bar. Outside of beater on a 6ft. should
be |in. to £in. higher than inside ; on an
Bft., iin. to lin. See that beaters are
set so that insides pass over cutter bar
about iin. to lin. ahead of outsides on
a 6ft. and to 2in. on an Bft.
machine. You’ll find this adjustment
on the reel lever.
Every finger must be tight on the
cutter bar. Realign them by holding a
heavy iron under finger at back; it
finger point is too high, knock it down ;
if too low, place iron on top and knock
up. If wearing plates allow knife to rise
or* slide back, replace them. Replace
badly worn knife sections, and take time
to realign with the fingers. Otherwise
you’ll have heavy draught and clumsy
cutting. If there is a jerk at each stroke
of the knife, replace the pitman.
When squaring the elevators the
machine should rest on its wheels, not
on the forecarrjage. Square lower ele-
vator by using adjusting connection
from main wheel frame to upright of
front elevator. Then fix the upper.
Best measure is a narrow bit of wood
slightly shorter than the distance be-
tween the elevator corners or a foot rule.
A string or builder’s square may de-
ceive you. If there are looseness and
side play in the packers, use washers on
each side of bearing to correct such ; but
see that packer comes up in centre of
deck slots.
The fountain of most curses is the
knotter. A small corrugated controlling
nut fixes the cord ring's position. A
good way to find correct opening for
the ring is to shove the gripper as far
to the right as it will go, lay a lead
pencil in the opening and adjust the
ring to this point. The needle should
drop the twine right to the bottom of
the slot in the cord ring before the ring
moves. If the needle is too high, bring
it through as far as possible, hold an
iron bar under it about Sin. from the
end, and hit the point downwards with
a heavy hammer.
Turn her over by hand to make sure
oil is working into all bearings.
Treating Milk Fever.
“Silky Bag”: The real cause of milk
fever is still unknown, but two different
treatments are effective.
Any cow that staggers, goes off her
milk suddenly or gets down may have
milk-fever. The soundest indication is
sudden failure of milk-secretion. The
most recently-developed treatment is in-
jection of calcium boro-gluconate or
calcium gluconate directly into the blood-
stream. This merely supplies lime in a
readily usable form, and so restores the
balance of the blood. The method is
not safe for use by amateurs, as the
piercing of the jugular vein is difficult,
also special care has to be taken to
avoid introducing air bubbles into the
blood.
The more common way of pumping
the udder up is very effective. It takes
very little pressure to prevent milk
secretion—about lib. per square inch.
Pumping up relieves the system of its
tendency to produce milk.
The following udder-pump precau-
tions should be observed: Keep clean
cotton wool in the filter cylinder always
—it keeps germs out. Sterilise the teat-
siphon in boiling water for 10 minutes
and leave there until needed. Never
touch the insertion part of the pump
with the hands during use, and wash
the cow’s teats thoroughly in disinfec-
tant before using the siphon. These
measures are chiefly aimed against mas-
titis, which commonly follows careless
treatment.
Tying the teats to retain air is rarely
needed. If the finger is pressed tightly
on the teat nipples for 30 seconds after
pumping, each quarter will hold enough
air to prevent further secretion success-
fully, and the cow will not be injured
by excessive pressure.
The pump treatment, though handy
and cheap, falls down on the hygienic
side unless a good deal of care is taken.
The injection method is logically the
best, because it supplies the food needed
by the cow to recover. It is worth call-
ing in a vet., if the animal is valuable,
to have it administered.
Dealing with Cowpeas.
“Zedo”: Cowpeas are not drought-
resistant—don’t try them out of the
maize area—but they are a very present


BARGAIN BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS
PRICES TO SUIT ALL PURSES—BOOKS TO SUIT ALL READERS
All Prices Post Free between Now and Christmas—a Further Saving.
V.
I>£Af?U
TAPVA
of
Mm
tigMl
w
HMlifi
wm
KNIGHTS
ERANG
4 for 5/-
or
11 6
SATURDEE, by Norman Lindsay.
BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin.
Author of ALL THAT SWAGGER.
STORIES BY KODAK.
All Old “Bulletin” readers remember “Kodak.’
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer.
THE SOW'S EAR, by Bernard Cronin.
NIGHTS ASHORE, by Cap*. J. Hamilton.
/
THE DOUGHMAN, by Robert Desmond Tate.
GIVING AMBER A CHANCE, by Jessie Urquhart.
3 for 10, - FORTY-SIX, by Stewart Howard.
PEARLS OF PAPUA, by Comdr. Brewster (Retd.).
One of the finest boys’ books of adventure written in Australia.
3/6 rnrh KARANGI, by F. S. Hibble.
I Joint winner Vic. Centenary Competition.
BLUE NORTH, by H. Drake-Brockman.
A tale of pearlers on the north-west coast.
\jm each verse by D. H. Souter.
WARDENS OF THE SEAS, by E. J. Brady.
Both Souter and Brady are already well known to “Bulletin”
readers.
10 PRACTICAL EMBROIDERY, by Rosalie Wilson.
1 A textbook on needlework with over 1 00 illustrations.
2/* each SNIPPETY SONGS, by Carna Birmingham.
I For the kiddies. Illustrated by the author..
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS, by Robt. Kaleski.
An expert talks on the domestic and working dogs of Australia.
2/6
3/6
4/6
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. ("Banjo") Paterson.
ALL-ABOUT, by Mary and Elizabeth Duraek.
A delightfully happy study of the abos. in the Kimberleys (W.A.)
—a suggestion for an overseas present.
PSALMIST OF THE DAWN, by Mary Marlowe.
Romantic Lord Howe Island story.
i AUSTRAUAN
BARKERS
* NO BITERS
Robert i
ŵ
ẁ
ALL-ABOUT
TIBURON
» «
i
Tr
BYUE TENNANT
51 , KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG, by Dr. H. Basedow.
I eatn No one knew the Australian abo. better than the author.
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose Pratt.
Beautifully produced— an ideal present for overseas friends.
THE WORLD IS YOURS, by G. B. Lancaster.
By the author of PAGEANT.
TIBURON, by Kylie Tennant.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1935
6/6
7/6
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster.
Now in its Fifth Australian Edition. v
LANDTAKERS, by Brian Penton.
“S. M. Herald” said: ‘‘Those who want to keep in touch with the
best in current Australian literature should read LAND-
TAKERS.”
21/-
A CLUSTER OF BEES, by Tarlton Rayment.
Reviewers in every country in the world welcome this delightfully-
written and -produced book on the many species of Australian
Bee—a classic.
Send Postal Note to The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street,
Sydney, or Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.


AN IDEAL SHOE
FOR
EVERYDAY WEAR.
OU’VE only to wear this
smart, comfortable shoe to
realise its value, and you can
depend on it to give the utmost
wear.
Made of Black or Brown Calf,
and stocked in full and half sizes.
Ask for a tin of the correct Abbey
Polish with your next order. The
best, at only 6d. per tin.
76
25/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
W.A. 47.
n *
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GtJAKD, for fin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 651 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and 3in.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
years free of charge.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
ss
'i
I
1
3?
1
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
new ylcifrk mak&&
POWDER EASY TO USE
w
JUST
PRESS WITH THE
FINGER&THUMB
Dentists know that
POWDER cleans teeth
better than anything.
CALVERT’S Tooth
Powder comes to you
■ in an Airflow Flask, a
new kind of package
which is ever so much
easier to use than
ordinary tins or tubes.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., Eng.
CALVERTS
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
in ADVERTISING
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner’’ (Etst. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISE-
MENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
cHamtm*
■AUDIT
•BUREAU OF-
.CIRCULATIONS.
help in time of soil depreciation. They
like a good soil, but on poor soils they
compare more than favorably with othet
crops.
Land can be prepared now —as for
maize. Plant when the last frost has
gone. In drill planting, rows should be
2ft. 6in, to 3ft. apart, and seed spaced
from 6in. to 9in. in the drills. It takes
from one-half to one bushel of seed
per acre, according to variety, in broad-
casts. In drills, the quantity is 41b. to
151 b. per acre with rows 3ft. apart—
seed varies much in size. Drilling is
best when the seedbed is dry or has a
lot of weed in it.
For soil improvement, the plants
should be ploughed under when the first
pods begin to ripen. If the job is left
till stems have coarsened, it becomes
something like burying a large, strong
fishing net'. .Plants should be chopped
to make them mix better with the earth.
First roll the crop and follow with a
sharp disc harrow. Use a disc plough
for turning the plants under. Apart
from making the ploughing easier, chop-
ping brings about quicker rotting.
A good practice is to plant cowpeas
between rows of early maize after the
latter has received its last cultivation —
which should be when it is tasselling,
usually in November. The cowpea seed
may be put in with a cornplanter. The
cowpeas will mainly do their growing
after the maize has ripened. After the
maize has been taken off, plough in the
peas.
Chaff-winnowing Machines.
“Stump Jump”: Not many highly-
developed modern chaff-treatment out-
fits are found in dairying districts, in
spite of their advantages.
Some complain about extra labor in-
volved, rather than initial expense. A
fairly handy man can make a complete
machine, including purchase of a grinder,
for less than £35, and this will operate
whilst the chaffcutter is running. Ready-
made bought outfits of |-ton per hour.
output cost from £5O.
Look what happens to a 50-ton stack
of f.a.q. oaten hay, with and without
treatment. Even moderate stuff should
yield 20 tons of grain for crushing after
winnowing. The remainder of the stack
—3O tons of “light” chaff —represents
about 80 p.c. of the original available
food material in the unwinnowed chaff,
because only a little of the outside of
whole oat grain is digestible.
Allowing that the cow can use one-
quarter of the whole grain in chaff,
there still remains 15 tons, equal to
550-odd bags of oats, which are abso-
lutely clear profit out of the 50 tons of
hay, and cost little to get. (The win-
nower is very cheap and runs for
nothing.)
The 550 bags will give a 40-cow herd
101 b. of ground oats a day for 165 days
—a wonderful winter ration. Grinding
costs 9d. to Is. a bag by contract, and
about 4d. if done by the farmer’s own
plant.
On small farms I have seen the old
“stripper” winnowers resurrected to
handle oaten chaff, the grain being stored
and ground at the next visit by the
cutter-contractor.
Almost every dairy farm in the
southern half of Australia uses anything
from 15 tons upwards of oaten chaff
yearly, out of which, by neglecting the
oats, 30 p.c. of the food value is plainly
thrown away. It seems almost ridicu-
lous to grow feed that costs up to £2
an acre to sow, only to waste this pro-
portion. Worse still, because the 30 p.c.
represents the “concentrate” part of the
chaff, so that it should be worth quite a
lot of labor and expense to save it.
Our Spuds Again.
“J. Want”: “Curlew” (B. 16/9/’36)
supports me when he talks of the diffi-
culty of producing potatoes 15 or 20
miles from the railway. It goes to show
that a lot of Australian produce is grown
in unsuitable locations. I can’t agree that
Australians growing murphies in murphy
districts need worry about the weather
so much as he suggests.
There was plenty of justification for
my comparison between Australian and
foreign yields. Surely it’s significant that
Victorian output has declined on an
average one ton per acre in 40 years.
For the decade ended 1895, when potato
culture was in its infancy, the State’s
average dig was 3.56 tons per acre; for
the decade ended 1935 it was 2.54 tons.
That was brought about by the failure
of growers to improve culture methods
and seed and wipe out disease. The
Victorian Agricultural Department attri-
butes the fall largely to diseases which
cause the so-called running out and de-
generation. Normally, the tubers them-
selves don’t show any marks of the rav-
ages of viruses which bring about leaf
curl and roll, but they turn out as pig
potatoes, such as “Curlew” mentions.
Somebody then blames the weather.
Virus diseases are spread by sucking
aphids in much the same way as the
mosquito spreads malaria among
humans. They are not carried through
the cold season in the plants themselves.
M.L. experiments have shown that the
yield has been increased 25 p.c. by the
use of seed out of fields free from aphid-
carried leaf affections.
Apart from the virus affections, there
are numerous others which counted for
little a generation ago, but are now car-
ried over in the soil or in tubers. Rhizoc-
tonia, for instance, was never heard ol
in Victoria before the beginning of the
century; to-day it costs the southern
State at least 12 p.c. of its crop. It is
easy to detect —closely-packed fungus
threads on the outside of the tuber look
like bits of dirt which will not wash off,
and when seed tubers so infected are
planted the threads extend and attack
young shoots, producing collar rot just
below the soil surface. In most cases
strict rotation and careful seed selec-
tion will keep spud farms clean.
About the best way to get clean seed
is to produce it for yourself. Use seed
which has been sprouted in boxes and
dip it for lj hours before use in lib.
formalin to 30 gallons water. Be sure
the mixture is no stronger. Before use,
spread the seed out carefully and thinly
to dry. It sounds a lot of trouble, but
it is cheaper to have trouble at the farm
end than at the overdraft end.
Hints for the Farm.
“Andy”: A little castor oil rubbed on
after each milking will remove small
teat warts in about a fortnight. Lemon-
juice is good, but takes longer to work.
Obstinate warts either on the teat or
body should be painted with a 1 p.c.
solution of silver nitrate or, better still,
with a slightly-moistened caustic pencil.
Care should be taken that none touches
the healthy skin.
“Brolga”: When rams’ horns are
blown in the cracks, fill the cracks with
four parts of clay to one part of blue-
stone mixed into a paste. This sets like
cement, and will prevent the trouble
occurring again.
“Barfold”: Place the dag box —we use
an old dipping-powder box —lengthwise
at the corner of the wool table to take
small dags picked off whilst skirting.
With the box thus placed, the dags can’t
be thrown in but have to be placed in.
This avoids unnecessary dags in the
locks.
“Scot”: Canker in a horse is nearly
always caused by the horse standing in
wet stable manure. There is a quick
growth of unhealthy spongy horn on
the frog, which has an evil smell and
takes little to start it bleeding. The
dead matter should be carefully pared
out, and the hole packed with copper
sulphate and chalk. Pressure should be
kept on the sole by cutting down the
wall a little, or by packing and keeping
in place with a small piece of hoop-
iron tacked to the hoof. The packing
should be renewed every second or third
day, and the horse kept on a clean floor.
It’s a long job—patience is an impor-
tant medicine.
“Ghanam”: Take the lamb straight
away from a ewe which develops in-
flamed udder after lambing. Milk the
mother four to six times a day gently,
keeping her in shelter. Hot foments are
useful. Follow them with a daily mas-
sage with loz. turps, in lOoz. olive oil.
“Ekka”: Don’t send specimens from
animals suspected of anthrax direct to
the Agricultural Department without
consulting the local stock inspector
about ways and means. Dangerously-
packed specimens may endanger the
lives of those who handle them.
“XT’.”: Right feeding is one of the
best preventives of worms in lambs.
Youngsters fed on hay and cake always
show enormously less infestation than
those on straw.
“Agemark”: When putting down a
floor of spaced battens in catching-pens,
spraying-race, etc., place them parallel
to the way the sheep enter. This will
more than halve the work of penning-up.
Battens put crosswise enable the sheep
to dig their toes into the spaces and
stand fast when pushed from behind.
“Zedo”: A new era in the production
of Kikuyu grass seems to be coming.
Though flowerings are fairly frequent
seed is about as rare as emeralds. A
little while ago, however, a plot on the
Comboyne (N.S.W.) seeded, and the
phenomenon has been repeated at
Alstonville (N.S.W. North Coast).


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youn» Streets, Sydney
n
m
W*L
m *:
Ml
ill
,
m
■phi
■ii
Mi
ii
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘Never dive on a full stomach,’ says an
expert.”
The owner might get angry.
*1*
“ ‘Nowadays everybody has an itch to write,’
states a novelist.”
But few come up to scratch!
“Sarazen’s 667.” —Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Gene must have been right on his long
game!
»?«
“Australia is still renowned for its sheep.”
—‘ ‘Courier-Mail.”
Tis true. Just think how many pay
Whatever imposts come their way.
“Blast y' what you done to Strawberry ?”
Points of Resemblance.
“For a married man to live the careless life
that is permissible to a bachelor is certainly ‘not
cricket.’ ” —Speaker at meeting regarding matri-
monial laws.
Still, it is something like cricket.
His wife is always trying to bowl him
out; his slips are closely watched, and
he is liable to be stumped if he ventures
out of his crease —for money if for no-
thing else. His wife may also have
people waiting to catch him right out
"in the country”—very deep indeed some
of these are.
He may think for a time that he is on
a good wicket, but soon he finds it will
start playing tricks.
He may go for a run (someone with
him, of course) and fancy that he has
got home all right, only to find himself
run out.
When his in-laws have their dig he is
hit to leg, despite his longing to skittle
them, and once they get set on his home
ground hell be socked for fivers, which
in this game are more in evidence than
fourers.
H. M.
4* 4* •!*
“Chemist Fined £IOO for Taxation Offences.”
Sun.
A bitter pill.
-I- '4* -I* 4*
When Comes the War.
“But, if there should be another war, every-
body, from the highest to the lowest, will be
prepared to make the usual sacrifices.” —
~~“S. M. Herald.”
“I feel that we all must make sacri-
fices,” said Brig.-General Wobbley Whats-
this, 8.0., W.0.W., tired and retired;
“so I took this job in charge of the De-
partment of Home Defence. The salary
is £SOO p.a. less than it should be, but
one must make sacrifices. However, the
quarters are comfortable and the whisky
good, although not as good as when I
fought with Base Records in the Great
War.”
“Infantry?” said the natty-looking re-
cruit. “Not on your life! The Pay Books
Section is what I enlisted for. My uncle
is a pal of the Minister for”
“But 1 saw it mentioned in a gossip
par. that you were keen to get at the
enemy.”
“Oh,” grinned the recruit, “we all have
to make sacrifices. I’m prepared to
sacrifice that.”
“My dear! We only get a pound a
day expenses allowance, and , of course,
all the expenses paid, out of our work
on these funds. Still, I suppose we must
make sacrifices. Besides, I may wangle
a trip to England.”
“I’ve been thinking, Jones, that you
ought to enlist. I dare say you’ve felt
that yourself. It will be hard to get on
without you, but we all have to make
sacrifices. My son will come into the
office”
“He’s a young man—doesn’t he want
to enlist?” said Jones, rather venomously.
“Oh, of course, of course! His sac-
rifice will be staying at home on work
of, I may say—ah—almost national im-
portance.”
Exdig.
Making the Most of Things.
Cable Edition. —Thirty people are re-
ported to have been killed and ninety
injured in a terrible railway accident
near Woopville last night. The train is
believed to have fallen over a steep em-
bankment into the river below. The
harrowing scenes which followed the
accident beggar description. Several car-
riages were completely submerged by the
waters, and others caught fire.
Second Edition. —About 20 people are
believed to have perished in the heart-
rending disaster at Woopville yesterday.
The injured number more than 50. Some
of the carriages ran down the embank-
ment and nearly fell into the river.
Final Edition. —Several people were
severely injured as a result of the rail-
way accident at Woopville yesterday
“Any cast-off clothing , please ?”
evening. The engine and first coach are
said to have left the lines.
Final Extra Edition. —A cow crossing
the lines at Woopville yesterday nearly
caused a serious accident. The engine-
driver had to pull up suddenly, and one
or two passengers complained of being
shaken up as a consequence. The cow
escaped uninjured.
Uno.
. ,1* i 'r ”
He turned pad with fnght. - D-.T.
Nearly kicked the bucket, in tact.
“Taking of die fl*r he executed
several modern dancers. The onlookers
applauded.” — “Sun.”
So much for our vaunted civilisation!
* * * *
Horrors of Invention.
A recently invented telephone converts a
woman’s soprano voice to a bass and a man’s
bass to a soprano.”
Plantagenet Gigglewock closed the
private ledger and looked at his watch.
“Good Lord!” he said to himself, “is
it that late? I’d better give Euphemia
a tingle as I promised.”
His ring was answered by a heavy bass
voice.
“Hullo!” he said ; “is that OK 1936?”
“Yes,” the deep rumble reverberated
against his eardrum.
“Look here! Get to blazes off the line,
vm , I’m in « hnrrv T-Tnlln I Hnllni”
y °u-J ™ in n is; Hullo! Hullo!
Inis is UK1936, repeated the basso
profundo.
“Well, I don’t know who the hell you
are,” spat Plantagenet, “but I’ve only a
minute to catch my train. Tell Mrs.
Gigglewock that Mr. Gigglewock will be
coming home by the 10.25.” Then, slam-
ming the receiver down, he grabbed hat
and case, switched off the light and raced
for the door.
As he walked smartly from the station
cheerfully whistling Plantagenet pon-
dered pleasantly on what 'Phim. might
have for his supper. Coffee and hot
toast, with the butter soaked right
through it, he hoped, and topped off with
some of his favorite rice pudding.
Still whistling, he let himself in with
his key.
As he stepped through the front door
a colander bounced off his dome, fol-
lowed by a heavy potato-masher which
rieochetted off the wall.
“So you’ve come home, have you, you
—you two-faced wretch!” shrieked his
wife. “You! Supposed to be working
back at the office on your own ? 1
always thought it was fishy. And your
fancy typist, or whoever the hussy is you
were philandering with, had the utter
impudence to ring me up — me! Swore
at me something dreadfully, and had the
nerve to calmly announce that you were
coming home. And let me tell you I'll
give her something to ring up about
when I find out who she is. And as for
you ”
A flying pot which would have missed
him by yards caught him on the jaw as
he leaped aside to dodge it, and he
sagged gently to the carpet.
Plantagenet is now trying to trace the
mechanic who installed a new-type tele-
phone by mistake in his office that day.
S. W. K.
*r*
“ ‘After experiments with cattle by denying
them salt for three months, rock-salt was placed
in a paddock. Cattle over a mile away seemed
to become aware of its presence immediately,’
says a scientific journal.”
They went to it for the lick of their
lives.
Prayer.
“God help the rich—the poor can manage
on the dole.” —Canon Hammond.
They have their clubs, their mansions and
their cars;
Their streamlined yachts to cruise upon
the brine;
Their silk-tipped fags and tinsel-wrapped
cigars;
Their six-course dinners and old-
vintage wine.
Their wallets are rotund with crinkly
“dough”;
Their hours are occupied, but, on the
whole,
Their future’s the reverse of rosy, so
Cod help the rich —the poor can draw
the dole.
They have their lough boys jambed with
suits and shoes —
They haven’t patches on their pants
and shirts.
Their womenfolk possess no right to
choose
The least-threadbare of cast-off frocks
or skirts.
They have, in consequence, an outlook
grey ;
They’re well and truly up privation’s
pole.
Therefore I’m moved by kindliness to
pray :
“God help the rich”—the poor can
draw the dole!
P. O. M.C.
Effect.
“Ice, as everyone knows, is produced by
heat.” — “Sim.”
Urged by my passion, I forgot
The rules that bind—became too free :
’Twas when my conduct got too hot
That Madeleine grew cold to me.
Hamer.


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1926:
'ALL THAT
SWAGGER'
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
DRAWINGS BY
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter XVII .
o Continued .)
lANNY found Mrs. Fitzhugh established at
Hennessy’s. She refused to be marooned on
the other side of the Murrumbidgee in
winter. La, she was used to lively society,
not that of dingoes and possums, inter-
spersed with blackfellows. The censorious
sneered at her husband-hunting, illogically,
when any woman evading marriage was considered
abnormal or a failure.
Mrs. Fitzhugh had her own setting-room, to
which she retreated when smitten with an attack of
de Vere. Otherwise she dined at the public table
to inspect the squatters who blew in on the way from
Riverina. Her sister deplored the money spent in
hotel residence, but Euphemia said that the bogtrotter
Hennessy was delighted to make nominal terms for
one who gave distinction to his wretched backblocks
shanty. Hennessy was pleased with her mounting
bill.
Euphemia was interested to meet Delacy of
Bewuck and Burrabinga, of whom there were many
diverting tales and whom Hennessy advertised as the
most honest and fearless man on the Murrumbidgee.
Oh that she had had someone in whom to confide
her first impressions of that shrimp of a being thump-
ing along on one leg, with a long black beard and
slop-clothes some sizes too large for him! La, what
a country! And this spectacle aspired to be father-
in-law to her niece! So deplorably Irish! He made
her hilarious. She anticipated no difficulty in retain-
ing her carriage. Such an object would be hat-i '-
harid to court her society. She bantered him, and
impressed him by her gaiety and dashingly crinolined
swagger, while she regretted a loutish society which
provided none to appreciate her expression behind
her fan.
Had Johanna been more cordial to Danny he
would have had more effulgence to loose on Mrs.
Fitzhugh. As it was, he treated her to political disser-
tations, demanding of her, as a comparatively recent
arrival, information and response which she was too
hare-brained to give. He was not obtuse to her
sense of her own superiority, and she was sobered
before the end of the meal.
“Me wife has lent you her carriage, I under-
stand,” he remarked before withdrawing.
“Yes, it was quite obliging of her.”
“How lately have you been at Heulong?” Danny
inquired.
“Not for months. I got away before the river
rose.”
“Then you did not see James Full wood when
he was down?”
“He has not been down or my sister would have
mentioned it. We get the post and parcels across
quite often in the boat.”
“It’s dayvillish mysterious,” thought Danny, and
slumped away to find Hennessy, who was waiting for
him in his private room behind the bar.
HENNESSY could give no information about
James Fullwood, but he had other business
which soon put Bella out of Danny’s head.
“If Oi could hev got away Oi’d hev taken a
thrip up to see ye, not wantin’ to commit impoortant
matter to a letter, but a thrip would have been too
conspicuous.”
Danny removed the pipe. His rriouth remained
open to receive a communication with such a prelude.
The trouble was concerning Robert and Hennessy's
niece Molly McCathie.
“In the name of God!” ejaculated Danny,
thoroughly upset, as Hennessy presented the shameful
details of such cases. Robert had been found in
Molly’s room at an ungodly hour: she had been
sfent to the Sisters at the convent in Goulburn:
matters could be mended by marriage.
“Sure, I had other ideas, and thim a little
betther,” he continued, gaining confidence as he per-
ceived the consternation of the decent Delacy. “But,
seeing phwat has happened, I can do no other. That
young divvil of yours has so much swagger that the
girls is bloinded on behowlding him. Sure, he's so
flash in full feather that it would take colored specs
to protect the ois.”
Hennessy was called away to quell a disturbance
in the bar. Danny pondered the evidence. Johanna
had spoken of Molly, and Robert had kept away
from town for some months. With his gig and
plated harness and tandem Bedouins!
Hennessy returned.
“I must have time to inquire into the rights of
this. I’ll condemn no man unheard, not even me
own son ; but me own son, if it is proven against
him, shall do justice to anny woman —black, white
or green,” said Delacy. He did not take his noggins
that evening nor become loud in poetical recitation
and political discussion.
Hennessy counted upon the Delacy integrity.
“It could be a very good match,” he said. “Oi’ll
treat her as me own daughter. Oi’ll be open-handed
because it is your son. Afther all, ’tis a vaynial sin
for the gossoons and colleens to be fond of wan
another. We’ve been young ourselves, Danny Delacy.”
“I was never young to that extent, Mister
Hennessy. I had too much respect for women.”
Hennessy took the hint in the emphasis on the
mister as he replied. “But in this new counthry, Mr.
Delacy, things have broadened considerably. Shure,
Molly is fit to wed wid annywan in these jumped-up
Colonies. She’s been eddicated as well as your son,
and that’s betther than annywan else in the district.”
“I’ll sleep on it,” said Delacy.
Chapter XVIII .
DANNY returned to Bewuck so early
on the following day that Johanna
inquired what was the matter.
“Me business was finished.
There was nothing to hang around for. And
1 am curious that nothing has been heard of Fullwood
and Bella Rafferty.”
Doogoolook came home at evening. He had
crossed in the Quebarra boat, nine miles down, and
let the horse swim.. He had no news. Bella was
nowhere to be seen, nor the two mares who should
by now have been morganatically awaiting young
Nullah-Mundoeys at Bewuck.
Robert, sick with uneasiness, awaited his father’s
return from a meeting with Hennessy. Shrinking
from the inevitable reckoning, he had ridden home
with Stewart Butler to look at a colt. Danny was
relieved to hear this. He, too, shrank from the
encounter. In a way he was glad of the lesser problem
of Bella, and announced his intention of swimming
the river on the morrow and riding to Heulong and
Rafferty’s to settle the matter.
“Ye’ll get your death of cramp in the river in
this cold. There’s no need to be in a flurry over that
streel. She’ll be setting herself up somewhere on the
strength of my training, and telling a cock-and-bull
story about her escape from Bunratty Castle.”
Danny was not to be deterred. In the morning
he saddled the river-crosser a tall old grey un-
strapped his peg and left it with Johanna for safety,
and, tying-up a head-bundle, went down to the dark,
swirling waters, a man in the fifties with but one leg.
“Mother of God! Will ye never gather a little
commonsense? What can ye do without ye’r leg?”
“If I’m cast in the river it might catch in snags.
Didn’t it get broken in the Yackandandah? Am I
an eft not to learn by experience?”
“An eft would be an elephant to ye in common-
sense. Whatever has come to that Rafferty streel,
another day or two wouldn’t worsen it.”
“Wait a week and the river may be down a lot,”
advised Norah.
“Leave ye’r father be. He enjoys leathering about
and risking his life for no profit. I must put up with
it as’usual.”
Neither of the Fullwood men was at home, so
Danny was for holding all parley on horseback and
departing. Mrs. Fullwood was too kindly and hospit-
able for that. She brought out a crutch that had been
used by James when he cut his foot with an adze.
Grace was also desirous of being helpful. They were
eager for news of Bewuck.
“Are Della and Bella Rafferty still in the moun-
tains?” Mrs. Fullwood inquired.
Danny saw that nothing would be gained by
telling of Bella’s disappearance. He let her slide for
the moment. He found that Mrs. Fullwood had not
seen James for months and that Charles had been up
in the mountains for nearly all the past summer.
Delacy was suprised by this news. Charles was away
now. It was a disappointing visit to Grace, as Danny
never even mentioned Robert’s name.
I EAVING Heulong, Delacy turned the grey towards
1— Learmont, a settler between Heulong and Keebah,
to find out if Bella had been left there. While being
fed he learned that the Learmonts knew nothing of
Bella or Fullwood. Danny remarked that he had
expected Fullwood to leave two old mares there, and
said nothing of Bella. He loathed scandal as the
plague and was careful not to start any.
All that day Johanna watched the crossing until
it was too dark to see, and Norah persuaded her that
Danny had remained at Heulong. Robert returned at
dusk, much relieved to learn that his father was not
at home. He was more relieved to estimate that
Danny had not divulged anything. The evil hour
was postponed. He had already been arraigned by
Hennessy, and had taken a defiant stand.
Johanna’s vigil was rewarded next afternoon.
Danny had pressed himself and the grey to outstrip
additional waters on the way from farther up. Robert
wished that his father would catch pneumonia and be
too ill to bring him to judgment. Danny arrived
with his teeth chattering and blue with cold, but a
change of clothes and a nip of rum before the fire
soon made him ready for a hearty meal, while he
told the latest instalment of the Bella Rafferty serial.
“She must have eloped with old Jimmy,” said
Robert. “They could not both have fallen down a
precipice.”
“It’s mortal curious,” said Danny.
He wrote to William and dispatched Doogoolook.
The boys were bidden to go out to James Fullwood's
and do everything to find out where Bella had been
taken.
DANNY was now ready to address Robert. He
waited until after supper and took possession of
the kitchen.
“Well, Robert, Hennessy has laid a charge against
you that I never thought would be laid against a son
of me own. Have you anything to say lor yourself?
Synopsis .
Allured by reports of prospects for
settlers in Australia, Daniel Delacy at 18
ventures forth from County Clare, in-
ducing Johanna Cooley to elope with him.
They take up Bewuck, on the Murrum-
bidgee, and, later, Burrabinga, out in
mountain fastnesses. The blacks give
them a little girl, Maeve, and young
Doogoolook becomes attached to them.
Of the children born to Danny and
Johanna in the early settling years five sur-
vive ; Della, Robert, William and Honoria
(twins), and Harry. Through a fall from a
horse Danny loses his right leg; also, he
suffers a head injury which leads him to
wear thereafter an enormous hat filled with
leaves, making, with his beard and pipe,
an odd figure of his s ft. 7jin. stature. A
fearful experience when the house there
is burnt down causes Johanna to renounce
Burrabinga and settle at Bewuck. Other
characters include Butler, the Fullwoocls,
the Urquharts, the Evanses, the Moores,
Hannon and O'Neill (former lags) and
Hennessy and Mrs. Fitzhugh. Johanna
sends Robert and Della to school in
Sydney. Danny settles at Burrabinga and,
helped by the other two boys, and by
O’Neill and Wong Foo —a Chinese he
has befriended —selects more land. He
buys Johanna a carriage, and with Robert
—back from Sydney and swaggering in
charge of Bewuck —she joins in the
society growing up round the township.
Delia goes to Burrabinga with Bella
Rafferty, a servant girl, who later leaves
with James Fullwood, pretending she is
going to her mother. Danny, visiting
Bewuck, is puzzled that no word has
been heard of Bella.


“If you are going to believe what an old lag”
“It’s when a man has no case that he resorts to
abusing the other side. I asked have you annything
to say for yourself?”
“What is Hennessy saying?”
“Had you no words of your own with Hennessy?”
“He’s been trying to rope someone in for that
bitch of a Molly, and I’m one that’s been attacked, if
that is what you mean. He hasn’t a leg to stand on:
she’s the town harlot.”
“Now look here,” said Danny, removing his pipe
the better to emphasise his words, “another low thing
is to blayguard a young woman as a way out of your
own sins if you have had anny gifts from her.”
For all his brazen air, Robert’s heart was thump-
ing against his chest. He could hear the river and the
oak-fronds weeping in the night and he wished he
was a little boy again plunging in the bunyip-hole
with Doogoolook, and never a thought of girls, blast
them! “Everyone knows what Molly is.”
“What I am concerned with is your behavior.
Have I ever taught you to make others the keepers
of your actions as a decent citizen? Have you or
have you not had certain relations with Molly
McCathie? Answer me that, now, as man to man,
and no cowardly crawling out.”
“Aw, we had a lark or two with her. She let us go
too far, but there were half a dozen in it.”
“It’s true, then, that you have had relations with
Molly McCathie in accordance with Hennessy’s
allegations.”
“He just picked on me.”
“What others do you accuse?”
“Gerald Butler and Tom Angus and Branston
and Aubrey Fullwood, to name a few: and Athol
Macallister was the one who started it”
“How came this?”
“After a bit of a dance one night in the hall
beside the store ; we might have been a bit on, not
being used to liquor. Molly only put me to bed in
her room to save waking
the old man, and he got
toothache or something
in the night and came in.
I never did her any
harm. Old Hennessy is
mad to get up in the social
stirrups and
he picks on
me because
he knows
you will be
the softest to
handle.”
Danny put him through a searching cross-
examination, and so hammered home the enormity
of “tampering with anny girl—black, whoite or green,”
that Robert’s bravado was plucked and he was left
in the undergarments of shame.
He was no practised libertine, and crumpled at
the prospect of being the oaf to hold the parcel in a
company affair. Unconvicted of sin, he feared only
ridicule, and would have sold his soul to keep the
matter secret.
MOLLY was equally unabashed spiritually or
socially. A lady of pleasure was in a plight but
trusted to extricate herself by marriage. Robert really
was in danger. Her favorite was Athol, son of old
Bandy Macallister of Curragoobill, and half a dozen
other stations from the Murray to the Darling.
Bandy was cynical and vulgar and able to drive a
bargain. His only legitimised son was the wildest
blackguard unlicked, and the bullet-headed whip who
drove tandem with such dash that the dazzled Robert
had taken him as a model.
In time Robert had been able to drive a tandem
of Bedouins through the township when Athol was
there to behold, and he was conquered. He made an
offer. Robert refused. Athol must have those dun
beasts with the silver manes and tails, no matter what
the cost or conditions. Robert pursued his advant-
age. Athol made him a familiar, but such was
Robert’s upbringing that he would not take Athol
home to Norah.
He brought Gerry Butler to Athol, and both lads
imitated Athol’s gracelessness. Athol’s lead was to
blame in appreciation of Molly’s satisfying charms.
All her paramours remembered her as long as they
lived, and grinned with glee when they met her. Molly
adored Athol, but, drunk or sober, she could not noose
him into marriage. He was the kind of rapscallion
to hold all women lightly unless proved under test.
He would kiss a servant-girl as soon as look at her,
and seduce her as a sporting incident. Casualties
in virtue were entirely a feminine responsibility in
his philosophy.
He was the supreme example of all the masculine
insolence of the bloods of his decade. He jeered at
Gerald and Robert for being old maids, and led them
after him on thoroughbreds, jumping in and out of
the flower-gardens fronting the straggling main street
of the township and of Queanbeyan and Cooma. In
Athol’s company the two young men first became
drunk —taking lessons in how to carry liquor like a
swell. All the squatter swagger of blood horses,
kangaroo-dogs and greyhounds, guns, plated harness,
top-boots and cabbage-tree hats which embellished
drinking, swearing and wenching, came natural to
Athol.
When a scapegoat was needed he cunningly had
one. Robert was left in Molly’s arms after a certain
debauch. The best fun had been in leading Hennessy
to find him there. Athol had blundered up and down
the passage to awaken the old terrier, and when he
emerged blinking with his candle he saw Athol near
Molly’s door. The thing was done. Hennessy
demanded admittance to Molly’s room and found
Robert.
“Too dead to the world to be dangerous, but
that, by hell! makes it funnier,” Athol cackled as
he told his crew in Sydney.
Athol ran gaily away with his Bedouin tandem,
for which he had paid £250 in cash: but, ah, he had
his revenge for that. Robert would need more than
£250 before he was done. Molly pled and pled.
Athol showed her letters around with inflated
swagger, and told her he wanted no wife who was
found asleep with dirty young Irish dogs like Bob
Delacy.
Hennessy had the measure of Athol and was
relieved that Robert was so fully compromised.
Molly, made desperate and revengeful by Athol’s
repudiation, let her uncle have his head. If he could
make Robert marry her she was willing. She neither
accused nor exonerated any of the young men.
Hennessy sent her to Goulburn for safety and started
on Robert.
THE interview with Robert, Hennessy and Danny
was disastrous to Robert’s case. The facts were
incontrovertible as stated by Hennessy with the
housekeeper’s corroboration.
“You must bring the girl out to my place, and
me wife and I will interrogate her,” said Delacy,
“first by herself and then with you and Robert
present... I’ll be thankful to have me wife’s carriage
brought home. Hospitality can go too far for them
that’s not worth it —not meaning you, Hennessy.”
He marched away with dignity notwithstanding
his sloppy clothes and peg-leg. It was Robert, in the
panoply of unmarred youth and smart gear, who was
shorn of swagger. Hennessy was satisfied with his
progress. The Delacys would kick for a while, but
he would set the young folks up and then use the
connection for every ounce that it would yield. Mrs.
Fitzhugh was his next objective. He regretted the
youthful rebellion that had put ostracising weals
on his back. There was now no cause for rebellion
in Australia. The Irish famine in the ’forties had
exterminated those members of his family who had
not escaped to Canada or the United States. Poor
old Ireland was in a hopeless mess, but in the Colonies
a man had outlet for ambition and energy. Hennessy
meant to go up and up, all obstacles but a spur to
endeavor.
t<\/OUR mother will have to know. Will you tell
t her or shall I?”
“I’ll tell her-myself,” said Robert sulkily.
“And I’ll be present.”
Robert was thus cornered to divulge the fact of
discovery in Molly’s bed at 3 a.m. “I was drunk was
the reason. Gerry Butler, Athol Macallister, Aubrey
Fullwood, Tom Angus and I all went in together, but
I was not used to drink, and it made me dizzy. There
was no harm, really. The others went out when I
went to sleep. Molly does nothing but throw herself
at men. She is playing her cards now to land me.”
Danny’s comment was a loud “Humph!”
“Mother of God, have mercy! That such a thing
could have befallen me son!” shrieked Johanna, in
such grief and excitement as Danny had not previously
seen from her. He was dazed.
Robert thought he had driven his mother mad
and was scared to hysteria. He put his arms about
her and tried to quieten her. “I swear, ma, I am
innocent. We were just daring each other to get
drunk to see what it was like.”
“I know that hussy!” Johanna screamed between
paroxysms. “I’ve seen her at work to capture me
innocent son, and him trapped in a net. God help
me, that I should have come to this! It is a just
punishment... And what are ye doing, Daniel
Delacy, to save ye’r son from the clutches of that
foul harpy and that criminal Hennessy?”
Danny’s statement that he had investigated so as
to have justice in hand and had discovered Robert’s
culpability brought a fresh outburst.
This storm did not move Danny fundamentally.
He considered it on a par with Johanna’s marital
aberration, and thought that if he had met that firmly
she might not now have been so wild. Justice he
would have, and was so reasonable that he knew all
the virtue would not be on one side, even with his
son. /
“Peace, woman! ”he said at last. “Nothing more
can be done till we hear what the girl has to say.”
“What she says! She should never be let open
her mouth again to her betters. If such a slut ever
comes near me I’ll tear her eyes out by the roots.”
“Come, now, Johanna, if the case was your own
daughter led astray by the love of some young man,
and she motherless and fatherless, wouldn’t your heart
break if there was no justice for her?”
“Ye to name wan like that with ye’r own
daughter—shame on ye! ”
“Your daughters had you to look after them.”
“’Tis plain they would never have had ye in anny
trouble. And where is me daughter now? And
where is that surrvant I trained for her among the
dingoes?”
Danny was tempted to interject that Bella had
been put in charge of one of the aristocratic Full-
woods, but felt it more than his position as a husband
would carry. «.
“And ye to be tigrinising about after Hennessy’s
by-blow—no father and mother! None that can be
mentioned, at all events.”
When Robert recovered from his alarm his
mother’s attitude was an immense satisfaction to him.
Danny shut his long stained teeth hard and stumped
away on other business. Johanna’s outburst had
unmanned him by its passion, but it did not deflect
him from procedure necessary to the upholding of
“character.”
Chapter XIX,
~
DANNY tried to offset his uneasiness
by furious action, but found that
Bewuck was Robert’s. Everyone
looked to Robert as the boss, even
the dogs. Danny’s special servitors forsook
him to run after Robert, in spite of the wars this
entailed. The canine fraternity are psychologists, and
in selecting Robert dogs knew that only against their
master could lese-majeste be committed. The other
Delacys imposed humiliating discipline on their dogs,
but Robert’s personality, as it ripened, compelled other
people to guard against his servitors’ depredations
or to suffer them as quietly as possible.
Deprived of more urgent business, Danny crossed
the Murrumbidgee again on the Bella business.
Johanna raised no protest this time, nor did she go
out to watch. She hid in her bedroom and waited
anxiously until Maeve announced that Danny was
safely across. She laughed grimly at the worry about
Bella, and observed to Norah:
“Another streel, who can take care of herself
to the injury of others, or she wouldn’t be true to her
breed. Your father has less sense than an eft. He
deserves the pair of treasures he has on his hands
now.”
Robert was disquieted by the impending private
meeting with his mother, which could no longer be
evaded when she had the fire lighted in the drawing-
room that evening and summoned him.
“And now, my son, tell me how ye came to be
trapped. Ye will never be so innocent among wolves
hereafter.”
Robert, affecting candor, told little but made a
plausible defence. He had already admitted intoxica-
tion. He considered that Gerry Butler, Athol Macal-
lister and the others had gone too far with Molly, and
when they were in danger of old Hennessy had rigged
the evidence on him.
“That wily old wretch will stop at nothing to
crawl into a good family. God help us, and your
father no more use than a broken umbrella in a
thunderstorm to withstand him.”
“I’ll clear out to Queensland where
they can't get hold of me.”
“If Grace should hear of it ’twill
distress the poor girl; but if she’s worthy
of ye ’twill be a nice little test.”
Robert was indifferent to Grace’s attitude for or
against him, but was too diplomatic to say so.
“In any case I’ll go away to Queensland for a
spell. I’m full-up of Bewuck. It’s a tinpot hole.
Out on the Darling Downs”...
Robert would almost as soon have married Molly
as fulfil his threat, but young men in New South


Wales were now speaking of ‘ Queensland as their
fathers had cited the antipodes.
“Would ye be running with ye’r tail between ye’r
legs, like wan of the curs out there, and leaving the
field to the lags and their breedings? Shame on ye,
Robert! That would be to admit ye were guilty,
and that I never would do, even if you were —not to
sweepings like that, or they would soon be in the
stirrups, and their betters: in the gutter.”
DELACY had no pleasant prospect as he
approached the Raffertys. They were an
objectionable family. The mother’s easy
virtue was a byword, therefore they would
make a noise about their daughter, and by
damn! where were Bella and Fullwood?
The Raffertys came streaming to meet
Mr. Delacy and held his stirrup and hampered
him in alighting, noisily servile and
genuinely hospitable and eager for news.
Their hut was squalid. They were shepherds
for Wells, a squatter adjoining Old Glenties.
They treated dogs, pigs and fowls as equals.
Mrs. Rafferty’s hair was matted and ver-
minous, her dress filthy and tattered. Rafferty
spoke up:
“Begob, and ’tis ye’rself, Mr. Delacy, that
is the kind gintleman to come all this way
around to inform me of me darlint Bella.
And how is the darlint gurrl? And it’s
blissed she was to be trained be ye’r dear
woife—a dear, koind lady if iver there was
wan. ‘God bless her!’ sez Oi to Mrs.
Rafferty at the toime, Oi did, ‘ ’tis the chance of a
loifetoime.’ ”
The woman was less effusive but equally servile,
and it was difficult for Delacy to open, but he was
justly known as Danny the Brave. The deterring
factor was the likelihood of the woman’s false grief.
For what might he not be blamed to disturb an
expectant mother, though she was a notorious poly-
andrist? He withdrew Rafferty, “To talk about a bull,
Rafferty, and that no lady’s subject.”
Mrs. Rafferty retreated in a “refined” manner,
taking some of the smaller youngsters with her, and
at a hint from Delacy Rafferty threatened to kick the
bigger ones.
“Divvil a wan of the Fullwoods have we seen
for months.”
“Seeing how it is with your wife, I do not wish
to disturb her with something that maybe can be
cleared up,” Delacy
continued, and related
the circumstances of
Bella’s disappearance.
“Begob!” said Rafferty. He
suspected that he had no responsi-
bility for Bella’s being, and had
been glad to be free from her
tongue, but he had a property claim
in her. “Ye did wrong,
Mr. Delacy, not to
bring her on ye’rself, ye
having promised the
mother to guard her as
wan of ye’r own.”
“But Fullwood—a man of years—and coming
.straight down.”
“Min of years are none too safe —but he shall
be made to pay; he must be follered and made to
pay.”
“I’ve sent me black boy with instructions to me
sons. I went meself as far as Learmont’s.”
“I thrimble at the thought of telling me poor
wife. Her sowl is wrapped up in that darlint gurrl.
If she’s rooned ’twill be a bad day for all concerned.
They’ll be made to pay, and to the limit. Ye’ll come
to tell me owld woman.”
Danny did not balk, though he nearly gasped as
he endured the unrestrained and foetid blasts of
Mother Rafferty’s tongue.
“Shure, ivirywan concerned will be made to pay,”
was Rafferty’s monotonous reiteration.
“The matter must now go to the officials. I’ll
do me best to clear it up,” said Delacy.
The female Rafferty continued to vituperate in
fluent Cockney about the ruination of her child. The
male Rafferty kept on and on that everyone should
be made to pay.
Delacy rode away followed by execrations and
murmuring to himself “There’s a cask of maggoty
meat for you! ”
AT nine o’clock the Bewuck household heard his
halloes above the Murrumbidgee.
“Save us!” exclaimed Johanna. “Is that your
father, and the river up and as cold as ice, and him
for ever thinking he’s as young as he was in ’fifty-
two swimming the Yackandandah, and it the dark
of the moon? Sure, he’s stark mad.”
Robert was not alarmed for his father’s safety.
His sudden disappearance would have been a joyous
miracle. Danny had never demanded affection from
his sons, and at present he was in the position of a
judge. Robert and Maeve went out with lanterns,
and soon the traveller was casting extra logs on his
roaring fire while the drenched horse shivered with-
out reward or care under the frosty sky.
Danny was not communicative about the
Rafferty episode. He remarked that the letter had
been a ruse and that the Raffertys had not heard from
Bella.
“Most likely she’s run off with somewan as soon
as ye’r back was turned,” observed Johanna.
“It’s for the police now. If annything has
happened to her and it not reported ’twould look
queer on my part.”
He took so much rum on going to bed that he
awakened late next morning, and his stump of a leg
was paining as though nails were being driven into it.
Two immersions in icy water during a long day with-
out food had been too much.
“There’s a wind sweeping down from Monaro all
laden with sleet,” Johanna reported.
“Sure, I have a cold as long as a wet week. Wan
day more won’t hurt Bella either way.” He made a
noise about his rare indisposition and doctored him-
self with one remedy more drastic than the other in
such quick succession that only an invincible stomach
could have escaped disturbance.
IN the evening a messenger arrived with a letter
from Hennessy stating that he had brought Molly
from Goulburn and that she was ready to meet Delacy
and Robert.
“Shall I send word for Hennessy to bring the
girl out here?”
“Ye’ll sind word that she’ll never place her foot in
this house only over me dead body. Neither me
daughter nor meself will contaminate the place with
such trash.”
“Then, Johanna, will you go with me to face the
girl and sift her story?”
“Me, to go to the beck of her! I’ve sifted her
story. Shame on ye, Daniel Delacy, to suggest
such an indignity.”
“Well, Robert, you can prepare to ride to the
township with me to-morrow.”
“I won’t,” Robert swaggered rebelliously. “I’ll
go to Queensland first.”
“You are mortal uneasy about her accusations
if it will take Queensland to pull you up—running
from a girl no more than five feet high. I’ve seen
you smirking after her often enough. Prepare your-
self. While you are on Bewuck you’ll observe what
I say. I’m ashamed that wan of me breed hasn’t the
pluck to face a bull’s nest and explode it if it’s false.
You should have heard the ballyragging I faced from
the Raffertys, male and female.”
Put this way, Robert said he would go.
THE encounter was in Hennessy's private den.
Molly was dressed with girlish simplicity and a
manner to match. She hardly
raised her eyes to Danny and
hovered touchingly on the verge
of tears. She was so pretty and
healthy that she charmed
Danny, who had always liked
her cheerful friendliness. What-
ever she was, he thought her
worth a whole boiling of Full-
woods.
Robert, braced for bel-
ligerence, was nonplussed by
Molly’s chaste, shy mien. Could
such hypocrisy be! He had
thought his mother rather soft
as to his own virtues, but he
marvelled at her acumen regard-
ing the perfidious Molly.
“Now, Molly, bear up,” said
Hennessy. “Though ye’ve done
foolishly, ye and Robert were
both vaynial young folks.
Things can be minded, as Mr.
Delacy has shown.”
Danny removed his pipe to
address such seductive girlish-
ness. Robert felt as many an-
other man —and woman —has
felt on seeing a jury of males
bowled over by the attractively
presented sexiness of some
designing hussy.
“Now, Molly McCathie,
you’ve brought one of the most
serious accusations in life against
me son, and what have you to
say for yourself?”
Molly fluttered and choked
and took refuge in a handker-
chief. “I didn’t want to, but
Robert kept on and on, and I
was frightened, but he swore by
everything holy to marry me.”
This was too much for
Robert. “What a boomer!”
burst from him. “I could never
make you have me because you
were so mashed on Athol
Macallister. He was always in your bedroom as if
he was married to you.”
“Phwat do ye know of anny young gurrl’s bed-
room? Ye are admitting that ye bothered her with
advances?” bawled Hennessy.
Robert saw his mistake. Hennessy continued.
“Ye cannot denoi that Mrs. Rooney and meself found
ye in me niece’s room on the noight of the dance?”
“I don’t remember anything about it. I took a
nobbier of your poisoned grog, and Gerry Butler and
Athol Macallister and Tom Angus played a practical
joke by landing me there. I never harmed Molly ;
I’m sure of that.”
“Sure, there’s no harum at all, if ye’ll shoulder
ye’r raysponsibilities loike a jintleman. Molly’s heart
is scalded for ye, and if ye’r feyther will put up a
little caboose for ye Oi’ll set ye up rint free, with as
handsome a prospect as annyone.”
“It’s not my responsibility. I was too dead-
drunk.”
“It wasn’t that time but all the others,” whispered
Molly, “and everyone is talking about you and me,
and I’m ruined. I wish I was dead.”
“As to being ruined,” said Danny judicially, “I
don’t care a snap of me fingers for anny scandal-
mongering japers. It’s of no more consequince than
the magpies chattering on the fence-posts; but are
you really ruined to the extent of prospects of mother-
hood?”
Molly bent her head and fostered wild sobs,
satisfactory to Hennessy, touching to Danny, but dis-
maying to Robert.
“I’ll have to kill myself,” wailed Molly with
shattering sobs.
“I’m not the only one,” Robert protested.
“Ye’re the only wan Molly has ever encouraged,”
said the good-tempered tones of Hennessy. “Oi was
not anxious for ye, as Molly has betther chances,
but there is no evidence from here to Goulburn of
Molly being out with annyone but ye. Whoi, didn’t
ye come straight here and get her to christen ye’r gig?
The divil mind ye, if Oi had known that ye were not
honorably intintioned to me motherless orphan! ”
Asseverations and denials were powerless in face
of such mendacity. If ever Robert got out of that
room he would steer fpr the Queensland border with-
out waiting for fine weather.
At the end of a hacking session Hennessy
observed that his poor child was fainting, and,
dramatically picking her up, carried her from the
room. Her threw her on her bed none too tenderly.
“Don’t ye move out till I give ye lave. Begor, ’tis
safest to put the key in me pocket.”
He returned to Delacy. Robert was contemptu-
ously silent, his scorn suiting his eagle features.
“You can go to bed, Robert. I want a word with
Hennessy.”
ROBERT removed himself with open contempt,
but it made no dint in Hennessy’s purpose.
Robert was damned if ever he’d allow the old man
to tell him to go to bed again. He’d sooner tell him
to go to hell than obey. If those two old fools
thought they were going to settle his affairs they’d
find out their mistake, but uneasiness rose through
' his debts to Hennessy, which had mounted consider-
ably.
As many a one with a “fine head for business,”
finding money easy, Robert had squandered it. He
had spent large sums in gear and on bets, and others
in replacing the crockery in shanties and various
expensive practical jokes that were the swagger of
his time. Was Hennessy reserving mention of the
debts for a knock-out blow?
He picked his overcoat
and hat from the rack, went to
the stable for his horse, and
galloped into the sharp night,
reaching home at two o’clock.
His mother called out to him
and he told her of Molly’s
hypocrisy and the attitude of
his father and Hennessy. His
mother’s support was comfort-
ing. “No matter what they do,
I’ll never marry her,” he main-
tained.
“ ’Twill never come to that.
If ye’r father is such a newt to
be put upon to that extint, I
have a plan as simple as shelling
peas that will leave them looking
like a pair of plucked geese in
a thunderstorm.”
“What?” asked Robert
hopefully.
“Sure, we may never need
it. Get to ye’r bed and wait
upon evints.”
Under seal of secrecy from
his father he confessed to debts.
His mother took this the right
way too. “Me poor foolish boy.
He has prepared a trap for ye,
the unholy scoundrel. We can
make it up out of the egg-
money.”
Robert confessed to about
half. Even that staggered his
mother, but did not daunt her.
t * A RE you convinced that
* \ Molly is to become a
mother?” Danny inquired of
Hennessy.
“We can be sure wid a
doctor,” said Hennessy smoothly.
“Shure, ’twould be a raylief to
know otherwise. Oi’m no advo-
cate for forced marriages.”
“I propose Dr. Britton in
Goulburn. A certificate from
him would convince me.”
“Oi’ll take Molly to-morrow, and Dr. Britton can
sind worrud in his own hand.”
Molly washed her puffed face and reviewed her
position. She was incensed by Athol Macallister’s


indifference to her last plea, his cruelty when her
hunger for him was unendurable. She was forced to
do something to offset it, and Robert was an instru-
ment. His superior attitude filled her with a desire for
revenge and the hardihood
to go through with her
uncle’s plan. He was only a
puppy, a lout, whining after
her like a little boy, crying
even for kisses, and now to
blacken her and throw the
blame on others!
She could have picked
on Athol, but he would have
laughed at any threat of
being sued for maintenance.
He had never babbled of
marriage as Robert had. Her
attempt to force Robert into
marriage had in it more of
revenge on Athol than desire
to save her name. Such in-
fatuation and delight as hers
in Athol could not be quite
unreturned. She sought to
arouse his jealousy.
P\ ANNY reached Bewuck
next evening before
Johanna had retired. Robert
kept out of the way. Johanna
extracted what had passed in
Hennessy’s room and put her
own construction on it.
“Robert must shoulder his responsibilities. It
doesn’t matter to me if the girl is Molly McCathie
or the Governor’s daughter.” Argument was useless
when he closed his mouth that way. Johanna had not
prevailed over him religiously when he was young and
amorous. She compressed her lips upon her own
purpose. Her beautiful son was not to be sacrificed
to a faggot, let Dr. Britton’s verdict be what it might.
Robert found the atmosphere unbearable. Danny
had Hannon in tow and Robert could not give orders
in view of his doubtful status. He was relieved when
his mother asked for help in her garden. Matters were
not advanced for him by the arrival of a big working
bullock who attempted to get into the cow-paddock,
where he had been born.
“Sure, that’s old Daisy’s calf,” observed Danny.
“I thought Robert gave him to the blacks with the
hipped cow for a feast a year ago.”
Hannon was silent. He never made trouble with
his tongue.
Danny pursued the subject at dinner. “ ’Tis plain
he’s a worker: someone must have got him from the
blacks.”
It was the beast that Robert had sold to pay for
the gig. Robert longed for his father to go away
that day so he could manage the cursed affair, but
Danny turned the bullock into the cow-paddock and
pottered about the premises all the afternoon.
At dusk the owner appeared, a teamster named
Bell. He was carrying stores from the township to
the Plains and the bullock had bolted for home. “And
how did you come by him, I’d be interested to know?”
inquired Danny.
“Bought him from the young cove, here. I got
a receipt.”
“Sure, that was the lot me son told me about
when I was in the mountains. You’ll stay the night?”
The man said he had lost so much time that he
must push on, but he first had a good meal in the
kitchen.
Danny went in to Robert. “Did you sell the
yellow bullock to Bell separate? He says he has a
receipt.”
Robert was caught.
“This will need explanation,” said Danny, return-
ing to talk with Bell, who later departed with his
beast. The disappointed creature had to be heeled
all the way up the cutting by a dog and striped by
a whip till he bled. Danny called his son out behind
the stables in the frosty night and- gave him such a
dressing-down that Robert trembled. Danny was at
a loss to account for such lack of principle in a son
of his loins. “And what did you do with the money?”
“Bought the gig to drive ma about,” said Robert
sullenly.
“I bought a carriage more comfortable to your
mother.”
“It’s as big as a circus.”
“I thought at the time you were wanting in judg-
ment to give a young bullock to the blacks, but I
would rather that you lacked judgment than principle,”
said Danny, showing his own lack of business values.
Robert’s vanity, of which he had an inordinate
share, was painfully wounded, a stinging experience
following upon the other.
T" HAT evening Danny retired early, and to his bed
1 proper, the big double bed of marital years.
“Bring me nightshirt,” he requested Norah. “I’m
free from me cold now.” Robert’s debacle was not
all distress to his father. Obliquely it gave him
conjugal courage.
Johanna remained up unusually late, but she
found Danny awake waiting for her, a candle set on
his chest to read the paper. “Ye’ll set the place afire
wan of these nights,” she said, but omitted to com-
plain of the ripe odor of the pipe.
“I came to bed early to have a private talk with
you.”
“And I stayed up late to balk ye,” thought
Johanna, taking as long as the frosty air permitted
to prepare herself for bed.
A sore and sorry Robert lay awake wondering
what his father was saying as the murmur of voices
continued for some time.
“If the blacks demanded two and he satisfied
them with wan, sure, he was entoitled to the money,”
was Johanna’s argument.
“He wasn’t entitled to tell a lie and deceive me.”
“A' little whoite loi! ”
“A lie is a lie.”
And a fool is a fool, thought Johanna. “Sure,
ye can’t expect a foine young man of Robert’s address
and education, and a head for business on him, to
manage and improve everything and be contint with
the position of an assigned man.”
Danny thought with satisfaction that
Robert would be relieved of management.
“Ye cannot educate a foine boy to be a
gentleman and expect him to drag around like
a peat-cutter,” persisted Johanna.
“An honest man is more to me than the
shiniest gentleman. Be the poipers, no man
can be a gentleman at all unless he is honest
first.”
Johanna might have approved of the mis-
appropriation of the bullock, thought Danny,
she was so callous. He was shocked by her
attitude, and, in the way of parents, inclined
to attribute the bad streak in Robert to her
side. He laid her unreasoning partisanship to
the maniacal qualities of mother-love, the pro-
tection of the offspring
by the female, to be
seen even in the magpie.
“If his own father
can’t protect him whin
he makes, a little youth-
ful slip it’s a poor
chance for me boy in
a world full of lags
and harpies.” Johanna
sounded like tears.
“Och, woman, there’s no rayson at you,” said
Danny, turning over, and half-wishing that he had
kept to the end room. “By damn! she’s just like
a magpie with a nest,” he thought as he drifted to
sleep, comforted that it was a natural rather than an
evil phenomenon.
Robert was in an enervating situation. A cold
sweat would break over him when he thought of
Dr. Britton’s report being affirmative. The days hung
like a blight. He was thankful to retreat to the barn
and husk maize, a task formerly beneath him.
Chapter XX.
WILLIAM’S arrival was a welcome
break in the strain. As soon as
Doogoolook had reached Burra-
binga with Danny’s letter Harry
investigated as far as Learmont’s while
William went to Wong Foo and to James Fullwood’s
hut. Bella had been at the hut, as a garment testified.
Wong had further information about Delacy cattle
going to market with the Full woods, and this time
there was nothing to cloud the issue.
“That streel must have gone off with James
Fullwood,” said Harry to William in solemn consulta-
tion.
Billy Aldon, the stockman batching with O’Neill,
came for rations at this juncture. As the matter was
no longer secret the Delacys talked with him. He
was enamored of Bella, and it was for safety that
Danny had latterly banished him to Dead Horse
Plain. Jealousy loosened his tongue. He was ready
any time that a witness was needed as to who lifted
so many Delacy cattle during the past year. The
boys left that in abeyance until they should
reinstate their respectability regarding the abduction
or absconding of Bella. Billy was eager to follow
Fullwood to Hell or Hay in order “to belt the
stuffin’ outer the ole morepork.”
“There’s not much stuffing in old skinny Jimmy,
but we’ll let Billy rip,” chuckled William.
William rode to Gool Gool. Harry essayed
Queanbeyan, but Billy Aldon made out to Gundagai
on the Great Southern-road. He had no difficulty
in tracking Bella. He followed to Cootamundra,
where Bella was established at the best hotel and
calling herself Mrs. Wood. When Aldon said he had
a letter for her she ordered him to be sent in. She
was in gay mood, which incensed her discarded lover.
“Is this what you’ve come to! Too flash for an
honest man’s offer to make a decent wife of you,
but that of a rotten cattle-duffing swell can have
his own way.”
Bella stuck her tongue out and giggled until she
was breathless.
“You may be all right for a bit in yer fine
feathers, but wait till people know what you are —
Mrs. Wood! Think yer very smart, ain’t you? At
any rate I’ll foiler ole Jimmy and belt the stuffin’
outer his ole hide.”
“Cripes, that would be funny! He could have
you took up by the police.”
“He can be took up for abduction if you ain’t
of age.”
“Took up for abducting his own missus! You
are a hard case! ”
“So that’s what he promised, and you are green
enough to swaller it.”
“Seein’s believin’. I’ll show me marriage lines
and me ring.”
“Crikey, Beller, is this true, or only gammon?”
Bella swore glibly, crossing herself, that she was
Mrs. James Fullwood, and calling herself Wood
modestly until James could take her to his family.
“Golly, I’m splittin’ me sides to think how that
Annie and Grace will look w’en they have to call
me Aunty!”
The disappointed lover was cheered. Bella was
a merry wight. “They mightn’t have nothink to do
with yer.”
Bella tossed her head. “Just let them try any
larks! ”
“Oh, well,” said Billy with resignation, “seem’
you have done so well by yourself, I wish yous luck.
I.reckon I had better not welt the stuffin’ outer ole
Jimmy.”
“I was married by the ole parson here in town.
Go an’ arsk him. Tell him ye’r me brother.”
Billy returned to Burrabinga with his blithe news.
William set Harry and Callahan to winter tasks and
rode with. Billy on his errand. William went on to
set his father’s mind at rest. His report was a triumph
for Danny but a blow to Johanna to have that streel
in a family she so much admired and into which her
heir-apparent was to wed.
“Have I been rearing a shepherd’s slut to enter
the quality?” she remarked.
DR. BRITTON’S report confirmed Molly’s state-
ment. Hennessy had ensured that. He took
Peggy Bell, daughter of the teamster who owned the
yellow bullock, with him for the purpose.
Peggy had been employed in the hotel, had come
to grief about three months since, and had just been
found out by Mrs. Rooney, the housekeeper. Her
swain, a young bullocky, was eager to make an honest
man of himself. Hennessy offered to take her to
Goulburn with him and Molly, to meet and marry
her man, on his way with loading, and thus save her
from the reproach of her parents.
It was she whom Dr. Britton certified as Molly
McCathie. She was so terrified that she said nothing
under examination. She merely wept and submitted
as part of her fall. Mr. Hennessy was so good to her.
He gave her ten pounds as a wedding present and had
her cared for at the convent until he,r man came
through.
Dr. Britton’s report, made in good faith, filled
Robert with fresh dismay.
“He’ll marry the girl,” said Danny, setting his
jaw. He went riding about the place, shifting stock
and inspecting fences, followed by what dogs he could
command.
Norah said coldly “We’ll be dragged down to
that level.”
Robert sought his mother, startled by the prospect
of exile to Queensland with not so much as a horse
except by permission of his father. To be cooped at
Bewuck as Molly’s husband was hardly less terrifying,
and he could not remain on his old terms and refuse
to marry her.
“There’s wan very simple way to ind the trouble
and be safe,” said Johanna.
“Too good to be true, but tell me.”
“Silly choild! Off this night and ask Grace to
elope with ye. Ye could take her in the gig.”
The carriage had been borrowed by Hennessy,
without asking, to take the erring females to Goul-
burn.
“That!” said Robert without enthusiasm. “That
is not possible.”
“She would run this very night if ye asked her.
Whin I was years younger than she is, didn’t I run
to the ind of the globe with ye’r father!” Johanna’s
gurgle of laughter meant that if Danny could succeed
Robert could not fail. “If ye were safely married to
Grace it’s certain ye could not be married to that
other drab, not by all the bishops, nor the blessed
Pope himself, for even ye’r father does not hold with
polygamy or anny loose ideas ; I will say that for him.
Go you this afternoon; ye are sure of a welcome.”
Robert was too sure. He loathed Grace’s clammy
kisses. If he could go where he’d never be seen again
he was bothered if he wouldn’t prefer Molly.
“Saddle-up and off ye go, boy.”
“The river is high.”
“Och, me son is not going to balk, whin his poor
old father with wan leg goes back and forth. Besides,
me rheumatism is troubling me. I need some of Mrs.
Fullwood’s liniment. I’ve forgotten the receipt. Go,
bring me some, like a good son.”
The errand would bring escape from the unendur-
able presence of his father. When Danny was out of
sight during the afternoon Robert caught the tall grey
and followed the routine, but when safely across
galloped on without changing, regardless of chill.
Danny inquired where he was, a little nervous lest
he might have flown to Queensland.
“I’m kept awake at night with the rheumatism,
and I sent him for some liniment.”
“Arrah! Johanna, there’s no use in throwing
him with Grace. I won’t countenance sons of mine
planting nameless children about the Colony—black,
whoite or green. He marries the girl or he leaves the
place for ever.”
ROBERT had a month’s
grace to marry Molly or
go from the Bewuck roof. He
hoped against hope for reprieve.
Molly McCathie remained with
the Sisters. They had been
informed of the
state of affairs
and instructed to
guard Molly and
allow none but
young Delacy to
see her.
Hennessy knew of Delacy’s edict.
The river grey had a desperately hard life that
winter. He was turned out drenched night after night
to freeze in the frost. His ribs could be counted in
his pinched hide, though it was not a droughty season.
Grace had a happy fortnight following Dr.
Britton’s report. Robert seemed to be in love with


her at last, yet there was a canker of uncertainty. He
put a hypothetical proposition rather than a direct
proposal of marriage.
“My mother and father eloped. What would you
think of eloping?”
“When a young lady really loves she would do
everything her intended husband wished. She would
think only of his happiness.”
“I wish I had some prospects.”
“A person with your head for business could soon
make a fortune. The early settlers lived under a dray
or in bark humpies. Surely there is stamina in the
present day too.”
“What would you do if someone arrived to take
you at your word?”
“If it was the onliest one ”
“It would be in the summertime.”
“All times of the year are the same to real love.”
Still he hung off, clinging to freedom, turning
over plans to save himself from exile. He sent a
careful statement to Tom Angus suggesting that he
should send down harness horses and that they would
go shares. Robert would train the animals some-
where near Sydney where buyers could come for trial.
If this was too ambitious Robert was sure that Tom
would lend him a couple of horses to go to Queens-
land. There was no need to submit to either Grace or
Molly.
He waited feverishly for Tom’s response, em-
bracing every opportunity of getting the post. When
a letter came Robert went down to the bunyip-hole
to read it. His own letter to Tom fell out of the
wrapping, accompanied by one from Ned, who wrote
that as his letter was private he thought Robert would
rather have it returned to him as Tom had departed
for Calcutta in charge of a shipment of horses. Tom
had been slack at Birrabee and was glad of the
adventure.
DANNY and William were astonished by Tom’s
“clearing out as if he had a firestick behind him,”
without saying good-bye or asking Burrabinga if they
had any horses to ship.
Robert later had a letter from Tom in Sydney,
explaining that he had had to rush to catch the
chance. The root reason of his sudden departure
was rumors of the Molly imbroglio, and he, too, being
guilty, was frantically uneasy. This was Robert’s
first example of how boon companions consider their
own safety in a jam. It was bitter in his soul and
left him without a prop.
“All the Bedouins must go back to Birrabee,”
announced Danny to William.
Danny was quiet about it, but he was pleased
with this further opportunity to re-establish his
mastership of Bewuck.
Johanna tried to enlist William in marrying
Robert and Grace, but William was as firmly against
the Fullwoods as Danny, and for the same reason, plus
being of the age to feel Grace’s lack of charm.
William had Robert’s story first from Danny,
and William’s. principle in such issues was as straight
as his father’s. He though it a low business and
shared Norah’s point of view that Robert was drag-
ging the family down. Remembering Bella’s advances
and knowing Molly, he was fair enough to say “She
must have snared Robert.”
“Snared be damned! There are always snares.
Principle will keep a man out of snares.”
William was young. How could his father, old
and one-legged and an “oddity,” understand the lures
cast for such dash as Robert’s? William then had
his mother’s presentation. He attributed her attitude
to motherly devotion and to the ease with which a
weak female’s vision could be clouded. Then the
brothers got away behind the stables and Robert gave
his version. William accepted this with reserve for
another side. Robert could not raise much swagger,
for all his obscenity and his allegations that the other
lads were equally guilty. He could not minimise the
plight he was in, nor feel anything but humiliation
under William’s penetrating questions. The hearty
guffaws from one side of William did not hide his
disapproval on the other. It was William’s oppor-
tunity to swagger a little in relating how Bella had
tried similar tactics with him, and how he had
threatened her with dish-water. Robert felt
William’s respectability sitting in judgment. William
determined that Della should be informed of Gerry s
participation, but a letter from Norah had already
done its work.
"P HE Delacys did not announce Bella’s romance,
1 but such news speedily leaked out: only from the
Fullwood women at Heulong was it kept, as at that
date the river separated them from the township and
other centres of gossip. The Rafferty joy was great
—a Cophetua fairy-story.
“And, by cripes, on one side, if not both, she’s
a bigger swell than the Fullwoods,” grinned her
mother.
Charles Fullwood returned from the droving
expedition and slipped quietly home on the left bank
of the river. His wife reported Robert’s frequent
visits.
“Encourage him all you can,” said Charles, with
an urgency that surprised her. “It won’t be easy to
get rid of Grace. She has no looks or manner or
she would have been settled years ago. The Delacys
are very useful people to me.”
“Why? I like Mrs. Delacy, but she is dreadfully
Irish.”
“It is a matter of business.” Mrs. Fullwood was
never enlightened about business. “Encourage Robert.
Get them married.”
Charles postponed the news of Bella as a sister-
in-law. Robert had never mentioned it.
Mrs. Fullwood sighed. However, as a meek wife,
she spoke tactfully to Grace. On Robert’s next visit
he was flattered by Full wood’s cordiality and the way
he was consulted about horses.
“Papa would like you as a young partner,” Grace
beamed at him, her heart in her eyes, such as they
were. The quality of her eyes made that of her heart
negligible to young men. Surely Robert would hang
off no longer.
The Fullwood attitude was balm to his deflated
self-esteem, but still Grace! No. Queensland
would not be so unendurable as Grace’s sickly senti-
mental gush and inept embrace. He
dwelt on Molly’s delights—Molly, before
whom he was hauled as an enemy. If
Molly loved him best of them all —that
was a softening thought. And the girl
was in a dreadful fix. It was, he sup-
posed, a serious matter for a girl—but
then all those other fellows. Life could
be complex.
He awoke each morning with a
shudder to realise that another day was
gone from those wherein to decide
between Grace, Queensland and Molly.
The most harrowing prospect was in
being sued for maintenance by Molly
so that all his cronies would whoop
from Riverina to Goulburn and his fall be
known even in Sydney. Grace seemed the better way
out. He would be reinstated all round. He could
make his way with horses. The Fullwoods were so
welcoming that it was like coming from frost to
sunshine to escape from his father to Heulong. It
weakened his dislike for marriage with Grace. He
rode down the river nearly every evening and crossed
in a boat from Quebarra. His father did not ask
where he went; he waited for the month to run.
Johanna swung between fear of Robert being
drowned from cramp in the river and the hope of
hearing that he and Grace had eloped. Danny kept
watch so that Robert could not abstract the gig.
Hennessy retained the carriage. He sent Robert a
private letter hinting that his debts could be cleared
up as a wedding gift; but those other men turned
Robert against Molly. He made up his mind to
marry Grace.
He laid hesitation to his father’s disapproval.
When Charles Fullwood heard of this he knew the
reason, which he did not divulge.
“Let them run away,” he said. “Robert has a
taking way with the opposite sex and old Danny is
looking for money with him. Grace will be lucky to
hook him.”
Hennessy wrote that he would bring his niece
and a priest as soon as the month was up.
“He’ll need an armed
guard to take me,” said
Robert to his mother. “You
warn me of his approach and
I’ll off to Grace, but I don’t
want to throw in my hand
until the last round.”
“That way you might
lose Grace.”
This prospect was not
without comfort to Robert.
Molly was equally dis-
traught. She passed her days
in feverish longing for Athol
Macallister, smuggling letters
to him and begging him to
rescue her from Robert. No
answer came, so one day as
the month was ending, such
are the fluctuations of amour,
she wrote one more letter
in a style absorbed from the
sentimental romances she
favored:
' a ° re c no' l "Sr for you Your
immage is being thrust out by that of a manlyier
figure. A week ago I loved you to distrackion, but
you trampled on my love and did not care that you
had left me in trouble. I find that I have been
spared the punishment of my reckless love. You have
power over me now. I could pass you by without
interest . My pulses would not flutter at beholding
you> j am now happy m my love for Robert and
ini make him a good wife. He has been nobel and
generous. He is a better man than you in every way.
He is taller and handsomer, and a better whip. I
don’t care if I never see you again but I wish you
well. lam longing for my wedding day—only six days
more now. Robert and I will drive to Sydney.
Chapter XXL
THE day came. Robert worked with
his mother in her garden and she
kept watch. Danny stumped about,
elaborately casual, ordering and
consulting with Hannon and William.
The short, cold afternoon waned without the
dogs announcing any thing or person coming down
the cutting. The sun, attended by a few clouds,
sank in winter brilliance as though a universe of
gold had exploded beyond the rim and scattered
islands and mountains in seas of molten glory around
the globe. Robert was unresponsive to its grand
beauty. His mother urged him away to Grace.
“I’ll wait till daylight—safer for the river,” he
said, and went to bed early.
Danny sat up late. Johanna sat with him. “No
sign of Hennessy,” she said triumphantly when they
retired. The dogs, curled against the cold, had not
announced so much as a possum.
“He has been delayed,” said Danny.
The household was tense for an arrival during
the following day, but it, too, ran away undisturbed,
its full sunlit silence palpitating on the clearings like
a spirit that had escaped from the sombre, brooding
scrub. Robert was acutely nervous. All felt the
drama. Danny was tormented by curiosity and the
desire to go to the township to broach the situation,
but dignity forbade.
On the third day the ballyhoo of the dogs por-
tended something special, and Mrs. Delacy’s carriage
and Hennessy’s pair were outlined on the skyline
preparatory to descent.
“Away to Grace,” counselled Johanna, but Robert
felt suddenly that he preferred Molly as a woman
per se. If old Hennessy would set him up near
Sydney, where he would escape local pother, and if it
were not for doubts of the parentage of that coming
child, he would be willing. Molly, after all, was a
first love, and deliciously in her teens, while Grace
was leanly his senior by two years.
“Are you staying to meet the bride or will you
swim the Yackandandah to Grace?” William asked
him.
“If he has dared to bring that slut she shall not
enter this house,” said Johanna, embattled.
Danny went out. William stood in the back-
ground. Norah and Maeve peeped unseen. Robert
hid. . .
“Good day, sir,” said Hennessy’s groom, reimng-
in near the stables.
Danny gave good-day and went forward.
“Where shall I leave the vehicle?” inquired the
man. The horses lowered their heads to relieve their
shoulders from the collars and mouthed the bits. The
man descended. No one came from the body of the
carriage. “Mr. Hennessy sent the carriage back with
his compliments.”
“Have you a letter?”
“No, sir, He only told me to return the carriage.”
Danny opened the door. There was nothing
inside but a saddle and bridle for the man’s return
journey. Danny was mystified, but hospitality was
imperative. “Turn the horses out and stay the night."
William passed the information to his mother.
Robert overheard and his spirits leapt up like a flame
at the unexpected reprieve from both Molly and Grace.
Danny would not make direct inquiries from
Hennessy’s employee. He talked to him in the kitchen
and supplied him with grog but could
learn nothing clarifying. Hennessy’s
move was cryptic. Danny would stay in
his own preserves and await another.
His and Robert’s tactics had become one.
SEVERAL days earlier Hennessy had
pounded off to Goulburn because
the Sisters had written that all was now
well with his niece. The young gentle-
man, unable to wait any longer, had
whisked her away; though Hennessy
knew through his informants that Robert
was still safely at Bewuck.
There was a flutter among the
Sisters when Hennessy had arrived.
They showed Molly’s letter thanking
them and stating that she was off to be
married to the man she loved. They
were satisfied because the young man had
come in a dogcart with horses of queer
color with white manes and tails. When
he had Molly safely in his trap he came
and left the letter, because Molly —bless
her kind heart in spite of her venial sins!
—did not want them to be worried. They had asked
the young man if he was Robert Delacy and he had
said yes.
“What loike was the young man? demanded
Hennessy, a grim certainty settling on him. He knew
those liver-colored horses.
“He was smallish and thin, with hair as red as
the fox.”
Hennessy said no more. He paid his debts and
withdrew to prepare for a shotgun marriage not the


first nor the last of its kind among the nobility, and
their parody the squattocracy. He rushed to the
train to Sydney, sending back instructions about the
Delacy carriage. He was in a humiliating position
with Delacy, whom he respected. Hennessy was
somewhat honest, though sensitiveness had been killed
by the lash. Society must pay for that. Arrivism
was his creed. _
The momentary sincerity of Molly’s indifference,
reflected in her letter, had worked upon Athol’s
vanity and he bowled along to reassert his sway.
Molly’s wounds still smarted and she was clever
enough to work upon him about Robert’s jealousy
until he believed her.
“Mr. Delacy is as mad for me to marry Robert
as Robert is himself, because Uncle Kevin has
promised to set us up and make me his heiress. , I’d
be afraid to go with you. Robert is a dead shot.”
Athol knew the truth of the last.
“Uncle would shoot you like a wallaby too, or
get the blacks down there to put a spear into both
of us, and end the disgrace.”
The blacks around Macallister’s holdings had not
been conciliated.
Athol, remembering Robert’s infatuation for
Molly, was brought to promise marriage, whereupon
Molly consented to go with him to Sydney. He put
her up at Petty’s and was surprised to find that no
marriage, no favors. Molly had become silent and
pale, and even more seductive to the hardy male
animal. The hotel was above reproach, so Athol
put up around the corner and enjoyed Molly in the
correctest fashion.
The liver-colored Bedouins were as easily traced
as a comet, and Hennessy. caught up with them before
Molly’s resistance had buckled, fortunately for her
career. Athol was indignant that Hennessy should
mention firearms, such was his temperature at the
moment.
.So it was a romantic marriage and Hennessy
welcomed Molly and Athol effusively until old Bandy
should come to reason. Marriage was final and Athol
was a bigger prize financially than all the Delacys
and Fullwoods combined. Socially, therefore, he
could lord it where he willed, and Hennessy was
strengthened in his ambitions for Euphemia Fitzhugh.
“Shure, were ye just playing ye’r cards to bring
him up to scratch?” chuckled Hennessy. “Ye’re the
deep wan, Molly asthore.”
“For two pins I’d have had neither of them,”
said Molly, recovering esprit with safety.
Her career as Mrs. Macallister did not become
part of Delacy’s epic, though she made him look
foolish before Robert, now victorious. Johanna did not
let Danny
off lightly.
“The
"" poor lamb,”
she crooned.
“Wouldn’t anny
parent with a speck of
natural instinct in the
heart of him know that
the boy had been led to
take a drop of grog
and him not being set a good
example by his own father—
and it to go to his head, and
the rest to be put upon him as a
felonious practical joke.”
“He did tamper with the
girl, whatever.-”
“A drab, and she and her
\ scoundrelly so-called uncle with two
min bailed up till she saw which was
the weakest under blackmailing, no
less.”
ROBERT’S right to swagger offensively
was tamed by uneasiness lest the debt
to Hennessy should come to light; nor was the
thought of Grace reassuring. He shuddered to
think that he might now have been tied to Grace’s
fishy kisses for life! If she yelped it would be
disagreeable. Never again would he let himself be
scared into anything by a woman. Still, he wished
he could disappear until the matter cooled with Grace.
Fullwood had a picturesque version of the affair.
He recognised that Robert had contemplated safety
through Grace, and, now that danger had passed,
would discard her like an icicle. He was not willing
to suffer that.
He came around by the township and made a
formal call upon Delacy. He opened mildly while
smoking a pipe in the sun after dinner. He sketched
a pathetic picture of his daughter and stressed
Robert’s responsibility. Danny allowed him to talk
himself out and then repeat while he drew deep
gurgles from his hippo of a pipe. Then he knocked
out the ashes on his wooden leg.
Fullwood noticed Maeve taking a couple of drums
of swill to the pigs, and suggested inspection to get
away from household ears.
“Sure, I’ve been pondering what you say,” said
Delacy when they were at the sty. “I’ve heard that
Robert has paid a few visits to Heulong. ’Tis lament-
able when young women take these things over-
seriously.”
“A few visits!” rasped Fullwood. “He has been
at my house constantly, and made himself inseparable
from my daughter. I should not have permitted it
if I had been at home, but my wife is easily imposed
upon.”
“ ’Tis true you’ve been away this past year on a
great deal of business,” dryly remarked Delacy. This
time he was to stand by his own, because of principle
fundamentally, and inclination humanly. Grace was
no motherless maiden nor dimpled darling.
“Yes, I was unavoidably absent, and your son
took advantage of that,” said Fullwood tartly.
“I’m sorry, Fullwood, if what you say is true,
but there are anny number of gossoons running about
the district looking for wives, and your daughter can
have her pick.”
“But 1 have to remember that
I am a Fullwood of Fullwood
Manor, County Sussex, and my
daughter cannot ”
“ ’Tis so. And I have to
remember that I am an honest
man —or try to be and, like
Danny Blake, I’m from County
Clare. That’s all there is to it,
Fullwood, except that we’ll have
to carry our hides to the tanyard
ourselves in the finish —and under
our own brands, Fullwood
under our own brands.”
Fullwood cursed him for a
rambling old Irish fool and
attempted to bring him to the
point. “Well, Delacy, what are
you going to do about it?”
“About bringing me hide to
the tanyard evintually under me
own brand?”
“Philosophy may be well
enough for educated philosophers,
but I am speaking of my
daughter.”
“And she having no educa-
tion in philosophy, you imply?”
“You are evading the point.”
“That’s no lie, neither. Sure,
I’ll return to it. Auribus teneo
lupum. I advise your daughter to
look for another beau who will
be proud to marry on a Fullwood
from the dayvil knows where.”
“Damme! Is your son to
go about the country breaking a
refined young female’s heart and
wrecking her health? Her very
life may be at stake.”
“Sure, hasn’t she been able to
find a second string for her bow?
I wish her every success in the
world. I don’t hold it against any
girl who her father is, or in what
country he was born. ’Tis a dis-
pensation beyond her entirely...
That’s a fine sow, Fullwood ...
She’s likely to farrow a dozen
piglets. What more could you
expect of a lady?”
“Your flippancy shows a lack of sensibility. I’m
willing to pass it over as the Irish idea of a joke,
but I shan’t let the matter rest there.”
“What do you expect of me, Fullwood? There
can be nothing more likely of disaster than a young
man to marry where he has no love.”
“Then he should not court in that direction.”
“He should not. If me son has done that, it is
reprehensible. He shall be reprimanded, I promise
you.”
With this Fullwood was so discontented that he
went for his horse. “You’ll turn your horse out and
stay the night? ’Tis a long stretch back to the town-
ship, and the days not much longer yet.”
Fullwood declined. He did not return to the
house to say good-bye to the ladies. He muttered
when in the saddle “I hope, Delacy, that this matter
will be settled in a gentlemanly way.”
“I hope so too, I’m sure, Fullwood, ab imo
pectore, and definitely. I have no policy of ungentle-
manliness to anny man of anny nationality—English
or Irish, black, whoite or green.”
“And whoi did Mr. Fullwood go off without a
good-afternoon, and he a gentleman?” inquired
Johanna.
“His title to gentleman was not aquil to the sudden
strain put on it. Matters are a little awkward by
reason of his accusations that Robert has been there
philandering with Grace. He as much as threatened
proceedings if Robert doesn’t marry her.”
“God help us! I hope ye told him that we will
welcome Grace. The best thing for Robert is to
settle down with her. He has been put off romance a
little by that impudent drab’s attack. A shock to a
sensitive boy.”
“Humph!” said Danny. “Get all foolishness out
of your head about the Fullwood piece and Robert.
Though Robert was reprehensible to court her, I
shall not expect him to marry in this case, where
there is no suggestion of a nameless offspring. I
would not countenance one of me own marrying
with a Fullwood if she was hung with the wealth of
the whole County of Sussex.”
“No, ye’d rather force him to marry with a
by-blow of a lag.”
Chapter XXII.
m JfOLLY and Athol were at the
\sJt] hotel until old Macallister should
show his hand. Hennessy was
working the connection for all he
could, socially. Molly had her own suite,
in glory equal to that of Euphemia Fitzhugh, now
shorn of a carriage.
Euphemia, hearing of the half-dozen stations and
endless flocks and herds of old Bandy—a widower —
was looking forward to meeting him. She was there-
fore less hoity-toity to Molly, and Molly, in victorious
altitude, was not so touchy.
Hennessy was beamingly hopeful. His unmen-
tionable days having shown him the fibre of those
in the stirrups, he was determined to be among them
and believed in and depended upon push, though one
sound thing in him was his appreciation of character.
Delacy was a favorite with him and he was desirous
of healing any lacerated ends, so he wrote to Robert
begging the favor of a few private words.
Hennessy was none of your illiterate terriers. He
had been a bright scholar at one of the little Hedge
Schools born of the Penal Laws, where he had learned
to read out of a Catholic prayer-book lent to him by
a soft-eyed, barefooted maid with a shawl over her
curls and a dream in her eyes which she had shared
with young Kevin. She was to have been his, but his
ability to read and write had later made him
prominent in the Anti-Union agitation and resulted
in his transportation.
An untamable dislike to conform had earned him
those shameful weals on his back, though he did not
forget Brigid. When he had earned his ticket-of-leave
he wrote home, but an unknown parish priest replied
that the family in question had perished during the
famine.
There had been another woman then, and she
had later dumped Molly on him. He had done his
best for Molly, not so much because of her mother’s
generosity as for the memory of little Brigid, who
had died of hunger waiting for him. His dream died
with her loss. In its place came a hardy desire for
power and consequence. Euphemia Fitzhugh was a
possible stepping-stone in his ambition, which would
not be helped by enmity with Robert Delacy, whom
Fullwood, brother-in-law of Euphemia, was pursuing
for his daughter.
Hennessy’s letter was extremely tactful, and
Robert appeared without delay, driving his gig again.
His father was under-dog for the moment.
“Well, young Robert Delacy, it was about that
money ye owe me. Oi don’t suppose ye can pay it
all off in wan gulp?”
. “Not just at the moment.” Robert’s business
head came to his aid. “You owe me more than I
owe you for what you tried to put upon me and the
old man.”
Hennessy loosed a genial guffaw. “It shows
ye’ve a great head on ye, to think of it. It was moi
intintion as a kind of apology to tell ye not to throuble
about the interest.”
Bluff, a try-on, occurred to Robert.
“Business is business, Hennessy. I consulted a
lawyer in Goulburn. He says I have a sound case
for an action, but the worry is not good for my
mother. We’ll call it square if you like to give me a
note of discharge. I don’t want to hurt Molly. The
mud would dirty her. It doesn’t matter to a man,”
Robert concluded with daring swagger.
“Ye flash pup, ye never came from the ould man’s
soide. It will soon take double dark glasses to protect
the ois whin behowlding ye,” thought Hennessy, but
he liberated another spurious chortle and clapped
Robert on the shoulder. “Ye’re a broight fellow,
Robert Delacy. No wonder Molly didn’t catch ye,
though she pulled the wool over her owld uncle’s ois
to hilp her, she wanted ye that bad.”
Robert’s vanity began to recover from some of
its wounds. He could say “Looks like it, when she
leathers off with another.”
“Be japers, ye hurt her proide ; and ye know how
we’ll clutch at the second-bist to save our proide.”


This put Robert in amenable mood. “If you
give me a note of full discharge, properly attested,
we’ll wipe the slate clean on both sides and let bygones
be bygones.”
“Shure, we will. Come and have a dhrink on
the house.”
The snob in Robert prevailed, also recollections
of the consequences of Hennessy’s grog. “Thanks,
but your grog was the cause of my trouble.” He said
it haughtily, without a twinkle. Already he could be
as uncompromisingly aristocratic as his mother.
“It’s the last toime ye’ll ivir refuse a dhrink wid
me,” thought Hennessy, but he said “Ye’ve a head on
ye, Robert, to learn by experience, and Oi applaud
ye ; but come and call on Molly McCathie, alias Mrs.
Athol Macallister.”
ROBERT condescended to this. Molly was waiting
and eager to second her uncle in her social rein-
statement. Robert was a “ladies’ man.” He could
be cutting to women, but not insensible to their allure,
if it existed. Molly was acting a shy, ladylike part,
reminiscent of her convent training. Robert was to
make the first move. Hennessy left them together.
Molly languished in the best style, fluttering a lace
handkerchief above her flounces, displaying an em-
broidered sandal on a footstool.
“I have called to congratulate you. I suppose
I must call you Mrs. Macallister?”
“No, lam Molly to old friends —in private. In
public maybe it would be better to stick on the Mrs.,
seeing that I have shocked the fogies.” The old
roguish Molly peeped out. Robert became himself.
“What the hell did you mean, getting the two old
men after me that way—and then running off with
that Athol?”
“Why did you break my heart? I was desperate.
You had ruined my reputation, and poor, dear Athol
is so desperately in love with me I was sorry for him.”
Molly sighed.
Robert knew the rights of her pose about repu-
tation, but it was gratifying to learn that he had
broken her heart so that she had to turn to Athol in
despair.
“Well, Molly, I wish you well. I must depart.
1 am not good for ladies’ reputations.” He turned
at the door with bravado. “Are you going to call it
Robert?”
Molly tossed a cushion after him. He heard her
gay laughter as he descended. She. came running
down the passage and called over the banister “Stay
to-night and we can go over some names. Athol is
in Goulburn.”
Robert, elated, said to Hennessy with a tone of
authority “You won’t forget that note of discharge.”
“Shure!” grunted Hennessy. “And ye can sind
in the gig.”
“Tell you what,” compromised Robert then;
“we might both, as well as not, let the tail go with
the hide. Let me have what I paid on the trap and
it is yours; and in that case I’ll train a pair for you
for good measure.”
“Roight ye are —on wan condition.”
“What is that?”
“That ye’r womenfolk don’t look down on
Molly.”
“I’m afraid I do not control the ladies of my
family.”
“Ye can say a word. It won’t do to hurt Molly’s
feelings.” Dealing with these jumped-up Colonials,
one needed a sledge-hammer style, and Hennessy’s
determination was to jump-up himself without bash-
fulness.
“I’ll see what can be done,” said Robert hesi-
tantly.
“Be japers, it is done thin already, me bhoy, for
no lady could resist ye, not wan so condescensious, and
of the rare gentility of ye’r own mother. Shure, here
is the cash, and Oi’ll have the note of discharge ready
whin ye’r mother comes to call on Molly, no less...
Norah too would complete it.”
HENNESSY retained a trump, but Robert came to
the Bewuck supper-table on the following night
with more self-assurance than he had enjoyed for
months.
He could hold up his head again, and a fine head
it was. Tall, haughty, slender, he was the hidalgo
to perfection and gave body to Johanna’s legend that
far back on her mother’s side was a grandee of Spain:
that one of the women of the family, having found
on the beach unconscious a man from the fleeing
Armada, had been so taken with his beauty that she
married him and that he turned out to be the son of a
nobleman.
Robert took his father aside during the evening
and brought the sovereigns from his pocket. “There’s
the money for the yellow steer. I only sort of
borrowed it.”
“It’s a good thing never to borrow in that way.
As often as not there’s an accident, and such borrow-
ing is embezzlement in a court of law. Whatever,
it is not in me disposition to be nagging at you.
You’ve had your lesson.”
“I’ll never be so green again,” said Robert, but
with a different connotation from his father’s.
“And now, how did you come by the money?”
“I had it paid on the gig, but in consideration of
the way Hennessy treated me I am to have the gig
and the money and let bygones be bygones.”
“ ’Tis quite decent of Hennessy.”
“Decent of me to let the old bushranger off for
bailing me up, you mean. I could pull him for defama-
tion of character only it would upset ma and show
up what a fool you were.”
Danny did not prolong the interview. He let
the Fullwood case go for the time being.
Robert recounted the denouement to William that
evening by the dying kitchen fire. “The old hide
caved-in ; was glad to let all the money go and give
me the gig, or I’d have pulled him for blackmail.
Asked me to have a drink. ‘Drink your
poisoned grog yourself!’ I said. Thought he had me
cornered, but he found out his mistake.”
Hennessy was a shrewd bargainer ; William duly
admired Robert’s business ability. “But, all the
same,” he giggled, “you had better be careful next
time. You don’t want to be swimming the Yackan-
dandah for fun.”
'“F HE next move was from Fullwood. He informed
I Delacy two days later in the township that he
would begin an action for a breach of promise.
“Your son made a convenience of my daughter’s
affections because he was caught in another direction.
He gets free, and leaves my daughter in such a state
of suffering that her health is permanently injured,
and you uphold him.”
“And would you injure her health further by
exposing her misplaced affections for the tag-rag to
delight in?” Danny was not to be stampeded a
second time.
“Robert shall marry or pay.”
“Ad Kalendas Grcecas, Fullwood —at the Greek
Kalends.”
“He shall marry or pay.”
“He’ll do neyther. Let sleeping dogs lie is sound
advice. I’ll bid you good-day.”
“This is not the last of this,” called Fullwood.
“Please yourself, Fullwood. Please yourself.”
Fullwood did not take Delacy’s advice. He
pleased himself.
A few days later Robert was stunned to receive
a legal document, which he read behind the stable, his
hands trembling. Just when he had been cleared, to
have this burst, and no likelihood of a fresh miracle
to extricate him! He could not face the old man
again. He would go to Queensland this time. For
the moment he went to his mother.
He had been saved from the disreputable Molly,
but Grace, of unbroken chastity, was equally formid-
able. Women were the deuce. It would be a wily
one who would get the better of him again, unless he
meant to give way to matrimony.
Johanna was Grace’s advocate. The threat of
Queensland made her urgent. If Robert married
Grace he would set up near by and Bewuck must be
his—he, the eldest son. Robert was afraid of the
writ of summons. His mother showed it to Danny
and advocated marriage to scotch the trouble.
“Fullwood has no case against Robert or me.
Sure, Fullwood is a fool —hink-honk-ha-ing through
that nose of his.”
“And how could he be honking through anny-
body else’s nose?”
“He’s so smart with his law. Sure, I’ll sit toight.
It may be all cry and no wool, as the dayvil said when
he was shearing the pig.”
Robert was grateful those days to work with
William, who was putting up a split-rail fence on the
outer boundary to replace a cockatoo erection. At
night they shot possums off the crops or mended
harness. They improved the hen-house and enlarged
the orchard and re-painted doors and gates for
their mother. It was Robert’s first experience of hard
work. During these winter weeks, when there was a
lull at Burrabinga, Danny was glad to remain at
Bewuck for the outcome of the Fullwood complica-
tions.
No one was con-
cerned about the lack of
amusements for Harry,
at Burrabinga with no
company but a deaf mute
and two stockmen, one
of them discarded by
Bella Ralferty. Harry did
not notice it himself. He
never expected to reap
from others. His eager
desire was to give them
what he could with two-
handed generosity. He
brightened wet days and
the evenings by telling
stories. Aldon and Calla-
han listened entranced.
O’Neill struggled horse-
deep through the drifts,
risking his life and suffering the belligerence of the
station dogs against his own pets, for the sake of such
rare entertainment.
FULLWOOD shortly reappeared at Bewuck
demanding a conference with Robert. He said
be had no wish to wash dirty linen in public and was
desirous of settling the case out of court.
This visit was due to his wife’s assurance that
Johanna was eager for the match, but Danny forbade
Johanna to talk, and she retreated to her own sitting-
room like an offended hen and brooded on the
elegance of her china dogs and wool mats, the Water-
fprd lustres and the cedar work-box, which she had
maintained in the tradition of a manorial hall despite
all “oddities” of democracy or difficulties of pioneer-
ing.
The men went to the old school-house and lighted
a fire there. Delacy smoked with loud smacking of
his lips and an occasional “Moi! Oh, moi!” as if
he was absently philosophising, while Fullwood
re-stated his case.
“What have you to say for yourself?” Fullwood
suddenly demanded of Robert.
“I —er —it wouldn’t be fair to marry Grace when
I don’t care for her that way. I’m sorry she has
taken me up wrong.”
“Do you refuse to fulfil your obligations to my
daughter?”
“I never undertook any obligations.”
“Oh, yes, you did —and I can prove it.”
“No, I didn’t. She was so dam’ friendly—like all
the girls—and I couldn’t be rude to her in return.”
Danny continued his loud smacking and ejacula-
tion as Fullwood rose to whining rage. Suddenly
Danny bluntly demanded of Robert if he had had any
wrongful relations with Grace. Robert was able to
deny.
Fullwood ranted his astonishment that anyone
claiming to be a free man and a gentleman should
act as Robert was acting towards Grace and that
Delacy should countenance him.
“You’re not half so astonished as I am, and that
is a lie, because I am not astonished at all —having
made me judgment whin I found out who duffed all
me cattle this last year. That’s the reason, Fullwood,
that no son or daughter of me own will marry with
wan of yours with me consent. You compel me to
let go the ears of me wolf. I’ll not mention your
gentlemanly action nearly thirty years ago to set a
lag to beat me up. I have not proceeded against
you out of mercy and because of the neeborliness of
your wife. I could affoord to lose me cattle better
than you could affoord to lose your character —not
your character, for you haven’t any, but your repu-
tation.”
“By Christ, what do you insinuate?”
Joy spread through Robert. He nearly crowed
aloud to be rescued by the miracle of the old man
on his side.
“Bluster won’t help you with me, Fullwood. ’Tis
never used except in weak cases —false feathers that
floi off in the wind. You
don’t think I’m an eft to be
fooled by you—me with me
invincible blackboy, and two
sons the best trackers in the world,
not to name Wong Foo with his
eyes open, and O’Neill trained by
yourself. I give warning that the
next tracking will be done by the
troopers. If me son has attracted
your daughter and has nothing to
give in return, I regret it, Fullwood,
and to make matters square,
though I have the evidence and the
witnesses, I’ll lay no
charge against you
this time.”
“By God! you’ll
pay for this. I was
willing to come to
terms, but nothing will
hold me back from
demanding my pound
of flesh now. If you
think I shall tolerate
this from a social
inferior ”
Danny emitted a disconcerting grunt of amuse-
ment. “Bedad, every man thinks himself the social
superior of every other. ’Tis a matter of the moind.
The truth is that wan man is as good as another, if
he is as good ; and none of us anny better than we
should be. You can have as manny social pretensions
as you can affoord, but not at the expinse of duffing
me cattle hereafter, Fullwood.”


sags
mm
m
■
i
. ■
■
■
: I
i:
■ ■
111
i§'
.
P!
i
H
„
B
Mm
m HR
is Riff
111
v| f*R|
wm
1
111
IS
■
IS
in
mi
:
1*
n
V
Hgg H
l)"'
«
VT»
am
■•1: -1 1
PI
■ Hi Hi
Hi
pi
m is® ■
urn hbb m
■
n 1
■
■ : :
HIjHLHM
:
m
Si R/R
I BE . ■
■■V ■
fflm
■
I M
mm
I
i
Fullwood grabbed his hat. “I’ll open proceedings
next week.”
“Go home to your daughter, tell her the truth
of the fix you’re in, and she’ll be willing to recover
from her broken heart to save your social preten-
sions.”
“You, you young blackguard! I’ll see you lagged
yet.”
Robert spluttered vulgar glee in Fullwood’s face.
Daniel Brian Robert M. Delacy, who had been
so genially conversational, put down his pipe and
stood up on his wooden leg, his hackle well up at last.
“Fullwood,” he thundered, and could have been
heard half a mile away, but only the Murrumbidgee
was listening, “you’ve gone too far! Social boasting
wan above the other is a waste of breath whin there
is nothing for anny of us but to carry our hides to
the tanyard in the ind. Manny a man was in the
chain-gangs wrongfully, and manny who were there
by rights were better than them who sent them there ;
but there’s limits, Fullwood, and you’ve gone outside
them. I know you for what you are —wan of those
that should have been in the chain-gangs, you and
your flash ould scrag of a brother that’s ran off and
married on Bella Rafferty, whose mother has the
social pretensions of meeting the gentry on the wrong
side of the blanket.
“I know plenty to get you and James a long
sentence of hard labor, and if you don’t reform you
shall not be let off hereafter. And when you cast
social aspersions at me it’s time for an honest man
to assert his principles. I’ll have you know, Fullwood,
that me family have been honest min as long as they
are remembered, at home in the Old Country as well
as here. Me and me wife came here free and dragged
with honest sweat, cultivating here, and opening up
the mountains, where no wan wanted to go. I was
none of these pretentious big capitalists that, by the
aid of their tools the Government officials, grabbed
all the easy land and grew rich by driving the convicts
like slaves. I’ve worked for annything I have, and
have never touched a farthing of another man’s rights.
If I didn’t make this testimony of me breed and me
principles I’d be failing as a decent citizen. As for
the social inferior business, sure, I hope me family
will never be connected with you, for I know you as
a cattle and horse thief, and not anny more of a
gentleman than old Rafferty. Rafferty has the better
blood —more upstanding manhood in it.”
Fullwood muttered scurrilous insults. Robert,
for the first time, was delighted with his father.
“Keep your illnature and bad manners for some-
one else, Fullwood. I’ve never been in a position
where I’ve had to throw dung at another man because
of me own case being contemptible. Maybe I’d be
a poisonous crawler, too, in such ulcerated circum-
stances.” This habit of philosophical disquisition was
more exasperating to his opponent than normal
vituperation.
“I’m giving you more than you’d ever get by
breach of promise. Reform your evil performances
and receive your new sister-in-law. Me wife will be
pleased to know that her training has such rich
results on black, whoite and green. Me brave Johanna
is all for the aristocracy, coming from a fox-hunting
squire who is a great swell indeed, though why is not
to be seen under intelligent consideration.”
Fullwood whined more insults.
“You’d better control yourself
and stay to a meal,” said Delacy at
length, too neighborly to order Full-
wood away.
Fullwood
departed with
renewed threats,
and insults as
copious as his
poverty of
vocabulary per-
mitted. “This is
infamous^-infamous! I’ll have it handled by the
right authorities.”
“It is so in-famous that I’ll leave it to Sergeant
O’Gorman hereafter. ’Tis O’Gorman has the
authority, and I the evidence. Remimber, I’ve
warned you.”
When his father’s back was turned Robert
thumbed his nose and swelled his cheeks and made
vulgar explosive sounds incongruous with his grandee
physique. He thoroughly earned Fullwood’s enraged
“Flash lout!”
“Arrah, Fullwood, don’t make a noise over sour
grapes ; it draws attintion to your disappointment,”
said Danny, whose temper had returned to normal.
JOHANNA was startled to learn of the Fullwood
thievishness. “Father was immense,” chortled
Robert. “I didn’t know he had it in him.” Robert
told the tale with embroidery and mimicry.
Johanna bridled. “And whoi do ye think I’d
choose him otherwise? Would I be wan to pick a
nullity?”
“But he’s so fond of making us take other people’s
dust.”
“He’s an oddity about democracy, and carries
honesty to foolish extremes, but sure, don’t I remem-
ber him in County Clare when he was younger than
ye are?”
Honoria was equally tonicked that her father
should have defined his social status. William
cackled “Robert won’t have to go to the Darling
Downs till another darling chases him.”
ROBERT itched to show himself abroad with his
tandem, but Hennessy’s clearance was dependent
upon the Delacy women’s attitude to Molly Mac-
allister, and there was embarlhssment in the confession
involved. Johanna had rehearsed to be haughty with
Molly, but she hid her disappointment and bowed to
the necessity of completing Robert’s success.
“Let this be a warning to ye, once and for all,
me son.”
“It’s all that,” agreed Robert, genial through
gaining his point. “And you can take it out on the
Full woods. They are for everlastingly trying to put on
airs, and they are in such a mess that they can’t do
anything.”
“Poor Grace’s only sin was to want ye, me boy;
and her mother has been a kind friend since I settled
here. It’s not in me to bite the hand that stroked
~ T < x
me. Johanna was silent a moment and then
brightened. “But I’ll not allow that Fitzhugh faymale
to condescind to me in future.”
“ ft- j * *l, .. 4 u • 4. 4. » •a
Tis mad weather to be going to town,” said
Danny. “With a wind that would perish the Danes.”
But Robert wrapped his mother in wallaroo fur and
put a hot brick at her feet.
Hennessy’s effusive reception had an emol-
lient effect. Johanna’s refusal to encounter him
during the imbroglio had spared them both
humiliation. She etxended her hand as an
ancient Cooley might have done to a liege.
“Ye’ve
come to see
little Molly,”
said he, beam-
ing broadly
and continuing
tor rentially,
“Shure, ’tis
herself, sez Oi,
that is the rale
quality from
the owld place
itself, and
none of this
arrogance of
Johnny-come-lately jumped-up Colonials. Oi’ve had me
thrubbles r’arin’ Molly, I don’t moind confessing,
since ever me poor sister died sudden and destitute.
She now to have put upon me such a mistake that Oi
seemed harsh in me demands to Mr. Delacy and that
foine son of ye’rs, but they carried it off as only rale
jintlemen can. If ye could see ye’r way to show a
word of friendliness to Molly ’twould be the bist
illustration in the worruld of how the quality can act,
and be the turning inflooence of her loife.”
Johanna was willing to be a patroness of virtue.
Macallister Senr. had arrived, and she was curious to
see how he was bearing up as a father-in-law, and
there was the glamor of wickedness as well as wealth
about that braw pioneer. Molly was now independent
of her old acquaintances’ favor, and Johanna thought
it showed good feeling
in Hennessy to value it.
“Shure, Mr. Macal-
lister Saynior is here this
very day. He would
deem it a great honor
entirely to meet ye at
dinner in his private
soot. Oi shall be as
proud as if the Queen
herself came to dine with
me this day.”
Johanna was relieved
that she had only to be
a lady, just a little stiff,
and all would be well
for Robert.
Bandy macal-
LISTER had come
down hotfoot from his
gins on his farthest-out
station, away at Yam-
booca, where the Darling
meets the Murray, where
men had laws of their
own, and Cockenzie men
surfed out to sea over the
Murray bars in tublike
craft with reckless disre-
gard of consequences.
Rumors of how
Molly had trapped Athol
so pleased him that he
laughed until he creaked
at her demure airs, and
thought that with her
health and prettiness she
might be just the keeper
to tame his son and
carry on the name.
Molly was expen-
sively dressed and exces-
sively “refined.” Johanna
was kept at a distance.
She was amazed by the
cynical ribaldries of
Bandy, and glad to fall
back on a genteel bearing
and accept Hennessy’s
solicitous attentions for
her comfort. Athol was
not present. Robert like-
wise had the nous to be
absent himself.
Euphemia spread
herself effulgently before
Bandy, who would not
risk familiarity with her,
but she put him in such
coarse good-humor that
she fancied she was
advancing. She was
lushly gushing to Molly
and contemptuous of Johanna and her brogue.
She had not been across the Murrumbidgee
since the autumn rains, and Charles Fullwood had
forbidden his wife to mention the acquisition of
Bella, or Robert Delacy’s and Grace’s misunderstand-
ing, until he should have brought off his coup.
“When my husband was stationed at Dublin I
had a personal maid with your amusing brogue,” she
condescended to Johanna.
“And ye liked it?”
“When I could understand it.”
“And does it remoind ye of happy days?”
“Yes, when I was a girl-bride.”
“Then ’twill be pleasant for ye to be with ye’r
new sister-in-law, me surrvant gurrl, Bella Rafferty
that was. Sure, I had a struggle to civilise her from
a rough barefooted shepherd’s brat.
Belike she has picked up some of me
brogue as well as some civilised habits,
if she doesn’t fall back into her streel-
ishness.
Mrs. Fitzhugh was thunderstruck.
“ ’Tis true, thin?” inquired Hennessy.
“Yes, an elopement. Molly, ye’re
in the fashion. Sure, didn’t I elope
meself, all the way from Ireland to
New South Wales.”
“I’ve heard of another in the
air,” said Molly, who loathed the
widow naturally from the beginning,
and now because she suspected her
uncle’s ambition and feared he
might succeed, and disinherit his
niece. “The lady was your niece
Grace.”
“And who was the young
man?” inquired Bandy of Mrs.
Fitzhugh.
“There was some lunkhead trying to pay her
attentions, but his family were socially inferior.”
Noting the lightning in Johanna’s eyes, Hennessy
hastened to avert friction. “If that is off, we’ll have
to foind another. Mr. Macallister or meself moight
obloige, if we could foind the ladies.”
“That would be easy with our bawbees,” cackled
Macallister.
Johanna, inflamed by Euphemia’s last insult,
could scarcely bridle herself to inquire “Are ye not
going to elope ye’rself? ’Twould stop the high talk
and be a ripe romance.”
Euphemia’s mind, running on the senior Macal-
lister, was prepared to be indulgent about badinage.
“Dear me, do people talk?”


“Sure, gags wouldn’t stop them. Some say ye
must even be secretly married.”
“Monstrous! I’ve not known Mr. Macallister
for a week.” The ladies had risen and were on the
way to the parlor.
“Och, ’tis not Mr. Macallister at all, but Mr.
Hennessy himself, and ye living here so continted and
comfortable.”
“My goodness, woman,” Euphemia said angrily,
“he was a convict. An ignorant bog-trotting Irish-
man —an innkeeper! A servant who is helped by my
patronage! ”
“I’ve been longer exiled at the furthest extremity
of the globe than ye have, and to be sure, society is
topsyturvy out here. I never thought I was training
Bella Rafferty to be wan of me equals... There’s
a deal of speculation, annyway.”
“Among vile scum of servants, I presume.”
“I see no surrvants but me own, and I never
encourage them to be vulgar at the expense of their
betters. Sure, ye’ve been settled here a long time
now, and ’tis to be seen that Hennessy is powerfully
set up with ye. Bella Rafferty as ye’r sister-in-law
wanst removed, and Molly as Mrs. Athol Macallister,
must be a great encouragement to him.”
“But a woman of my family—a married woman
—surely no one would dare?”
“Sure, widows are said to be more comprehensive
than shy young girls in all their modesty. After
Love’s young dream is dispersed it becomes a matter
of business, and Hennessy is a powerful man. He
owns the township.”
THE Fitzhugh gave Johanna a curdling look and
swept from her presence to her own apartments.
This evil Irish fishwife could not be concocting her
slanders without foundation.
Euphemia recalled passages with Hennessy which
she had attributed to Irish exuberance. The odious,
presumptuous monster! She thought with alarm of
her bill. And the Bella elopement, when she had
been awaiting James as a possibility! Her means
would not run to Sydney. She must return to Heu-
long. The Colonies were a racking nightmare ; but
a colder, more cramped prospect was the life open
to her in England, in shabby lodgings with a chasm
between her and desirable men —and the competition!
Macallister followed Johanna to the parlor—a
tremendous compliment —and heard part of the brush
between the women, and it convulsed him.
“You’ve disposed of the big besom in one shot,”
he grinned, placing a chair for her. “She desairved
it... My certes, Mrs. Delacy, I wish my Athol had
married one of your daughters, if you have any like
yourself. I hear there is no certainty but that your
son has fathered me a grandchild. I would approve
of the breed.”
“Mr. Macallister, for shame! Ye shock me. Me
son •”
“No offence, little lady ; no offence! ” the twinkle
in his eye was so disturbing that they both laughed.
Johanna preened her draperies and in victory was
amiable to Molly. She was extra-virtuous of deport-
ment before the rakish Bandy but invited him to bring
his daughter-in-law to Bewuck.
“Sure, me husband dearly loves a little political
conversation with annywan from the Old Country.”
Hennessy was so excited by this invitation that
he made Johanna a present of stuffed humming-birds
under a glass globe, an elegant and fashionable orna-
ment which he dearly prized.
“By damn!” exclaimed Danny when all was
explained. “ ’Tis you that has got the wedding present
on account of Molly, instead of having to provide
wan, me brave Johanna. Dayvil if ever I heard of
such another propitious adventure.” He laughed
until tears ran down his cheeks.
“Whin was I ever a nullity?” cried Johanna,
healthily enlivened by her trip to town.
“Ma got a prize for swimming the Yackandandah
without getting wet,” chortled William.
Robert had Hennessy’s note of discharge, so
worded that he had quittance of his debts to date in
consideration of the misunderstanding about Molly
McCathie’s elopement, but only on the further under-
standing that Robert’s womenfolk were not to slight
Molly Macallister. Before Robert could show it
about or tell Hennessy to go to hell he would have
to pay his debts in full. It made him respect old
Hennessy.
Chapter XXIII.
DURING the absence of Johanna
and Robert Danny arranged his
“moind.” Robert’s returning
swagger determined him.
“I’ve been thinking,” he said that night.
“Robert is getting too soft and ladified around town
here. He has never done his share on the axe or in
camping out and fencing and running wild horses
and cattle. Burrabinga would be the makings of him
and remove him from the wrong women. That Molly
Macallister piece—whom I’m thinking marriage won’t
settle for long—and the poor Fullwood flourbag-on-a-
pole, with a lip that you could trip on.”
“I’d like to see me boy safely married, which he
can’t be if he’s strewed up there among the dingoes.”
“Arrah, he needs straightening-up. The Urquhart
girls are as fine a lot of young people as ever walked.”
“And Janet designed for William?”
“Och, he walks around her and doesn’t know
how to come to a head. There is a drove of others.
It maybe will bring Della up to the mark to see
Norah ahead of her.”
Both families were agreeable to the marriage of
Norah and Stewart Butler, which was to take place
five weeks hence.
Robert was relieved to go to Burrabinga, out of
reach of Grace. He and William set off accompanied
by a lusty brigade of dogs. Danny had to tie up his
to keep them at Bewuck. Even so, two broke their
chains and departed. William was to send Della
home as soon as the river fell. Johanna said that she
would provide no more wives for the unconvicted
gentry by strewing her daughters and their surrvants
about the farthest extremities of the wilderness.
Sandy Urquhart escorted Della home and spent
some days with Danny in yarning and visiting the
neighbors, and the two old mates got drunk together
in the township. Through this fall Danny lost the
ground he had been regaining as public consort, if
not private spouse, of Johanna. She relegated him to
the “ind room” again on the excuse that her head
suffered from the perfume of rum and tobacco com-
bined.
Danny felt this banishment to be a social disgrace
out of all proportion to its actuality, but his honest
idea of the sanctity, the inviolability, of the marriage-
bed demanded that it should be double.
BELLA RAFFERTY came home to Heulong at
the time that Della returned to the other bank
of the river. James had a fleshly craving for her —
personable young women were scarce —and he and
Charles had finally been held to ransom. Married, she
would be their accessory ; otherwise she threatened
their exposure. She and Aldon, the Delacys’ stock-
man, had the evidence.
Charles had resisted at first, fearing
his wife’s attitude. She was a meek
woman, but honorable, and the sister of
that formidable brigadiere Euphemia
Fitzhugh. Bella threatened boldly.
James coveted her, and loss of social
caste would have crumbled Charles.
Bella drove her bargain to the hilt. She
must be openly accepted by the family,
like a certain Mrs. Wells, and “made a lady of.” Her
idea of this was fine clothes, idleness, and the right
to order servants to do her bidding.
The advocacy of Bella devolved upon Charles.
Mrs. Fullwood had to resign herself to one more
cross and consent to train her sister-in-law. Bella
was to forswear her family: she and the family agreed
to this.
There were times when Bella was not at all a
cross. Euphemia, disturbed to find that there was
truth in Mrs. Delacy’s riposting, had returned to
Heulong despite the River Murrumbidgee. She was
enraged by such a family accretion as Bella, but
Bella, shameless, and sure of her men, was not
squelchable by a dozen Euphemias, and the encounters
were studded with comedy.
Charles felt like hanging himself to have given
in when he found that Delacy had long known the
facts of the cattle-lifting and was not going to
prosecute. He threatened to throw Bella out, and
told her it was he who had the whip-hand of Delacy
through the fear of an action for breach of promise,
but Bella bared her teeth and told Charles that she
knew of a certain widow in a pub on the way to
Riverina to whom had gone as hush-money the large
sums he had gained from other men’s cattle.
THE elopement was the subject of gossip from
Goulburn to Gool Gool, having superseded the
Molly McCathie scandal-romance. Then it was
displaced by the Bewuck wedding.
The Fullwoods presented a problem. Danny
said that he had no wish to maintain enmity with
anny man —black, white or gregn—so long as he did .
not duff Burrabinga cattle. Johanna said she had
nothing but goodwill for Grace and her mother, but
could not risk sending an invitation and being set
down.
“ ’Tis a good policy to let the other fellow do
the setting down. Whin you come off top it rankles,
but if he snubs you it pleases his vanity and doesn’t
hurt you.”
“Likely I’d put meself in an invidious position!”
“Invidious! By damn! All this tongue-lashing
is chaff in the wind. Invite them all, and if they
rayfuse ’tis their own dispensation. The boys have
not reported any cattle missing lately.”
“What about Bella Rafferty?”
“Sure, Bella. Whoi, Bella will be the flower of
that flock! Have ye forgotten the widow Fitzhugh?’"
“It’s the sunflower she’ll be —a great, big red wan
with bunions, if such iver was seen. I’d better invite
Hennessy to dance with her,” giggled Johanna, who
had her sense of the humorous. People could make
an “omnium gatherum” of a wedding ; she remem-
bered her girlhood, when all attended as their right.
Hennessy, if honored, would not be angry with
Robert.
At the festivities Janet had sometimes to confront
Sandy and concentrate until her stare grew glassy.
She could not risk his breaking loose to chop up the
furniture or smash the globe of the humming-birds—
so much admired. Great was her relief when he
retired to the “ind room,” from whence his snores
accompanied the dancing. What mattered the giggles
they evoked when compared with his usual threats
to kill her with an axe or to burn down the house?
Mrs. Urquhart was free to enjoy Bella, and wondered
why she had thrown herself away on bob-tailed old
James, and invited her to make an extended visit to
Keebah.
Bella’s laugh was the heartiest, her manner the
most friendly and boisterous, of any present. She
had no shame about her past, no airs about her
present nor fears for her future. She slapped the old
men on the back and rallied the young ones like a
popular midwife having a night out with her clientele.
Euphemia Fitzhugh was present. She could not
afford to neglect opportunity.
“Ye are welcome,” said Johanna in receiving her,
“and I’ve invited Mr. Hennessy specially for ye, his
first toime in me house. He’s still on the market, and
the richest bachelor in the district.”
This early put Euphemia in her place, and fight
died in her before the spanking self-assurance of Mrs.
James, former servant to her hostess, the “adulterated”
daughter of old Rafferty, as the wags put it, his wife
a passenger by a “girl-ship,” who boasted that she had
been the toy of the officers on a warship when
becalmed in the doldrums. Such a mess! Euphemia
raised a smile by main force for Hennessy, remem-
bering her bill.
Hennessy was effulgent and mellow. He had
always liked Delacy and respected Johanna. There
had been years when Danny’s fearless straight-going
had had its effect in reclaiming him.
The carriage took the young couple to their new
home, fifteen miles distant, on a run called New
Glenties in honor of the parent station, which was
named from old Butler’s place of origin. Robert
drove four horses with ribbons in the manes and
Harry sat beside him.
K A UCH of the attention given to Della at the wed-
-IVI ding, by reason of her residence in the mountains
and as mistress of the new Mrs. Fullwood, took the
form of jokes about her being an old maid and
inquiries as to why she was letting her sister get
ahead of her.
Gerald Butler was as assiduous as ever when the
wedding pother subsided, but Della would have
nothing to do with “Molly McCathie's leavings.”
Gerald retorted that if she wanted a sissy who was
not somebody’s leavings she would have to clutch him
straight from the cradle, as she was now old enough
to be the grandmother of all the bachelors excepting
a few shepherds and Hennessy. The lively girl
grew silent and thin and did not enjoy circumscription
by her mother after her liberty and consequence at
Burrabinga.
Danny was concerned
about her old-maidism.
though she was not yet
thirty. Johanna watched
with satisfaction. “What
can ye expect after strew-
ing her among the
dingoes? It’s
meself that is
thankful that
she has not
taken up with
some cattle-
duffer.”
Della
said she cared
for no one, and unless she cared she preferred to
remain unmarried,
“Leave Della be,” advised her mother. “She
will be a pleasant companion to me —and ye too whin
we grow older. Ye won’t always be able to cover
the country like a wallaby.”
Della conveniently turned religious at that date.
Johanna let her alone in the Church of England for a
time, but was bent on turning her thoughts “the right
way” later. She visited Father O’Brien when he toured
the district, and gained comfort and some holy books
lost to her for years. When the Reverend Father


The Woman’s Paper
that Women Buy
S
t<4
A
VL A
T
AU
SfeN
Or
n-.
i
m
i
l
K
A PUBLICATION
You’ll like the next issue! It will be on sale on
Friday.
Both Mother and Daughter look forward to each issue
of this amazingly interesting weekly—handy to carry,
easy to read, excellently produced and compre-
hensive in its many features.
See that you get a copy of this splendid
magazine for women.
went back to Sydney he sent her a print of the Blue
Madonna elegantly framed which Johanna made the
centre of a shrine in her bedroom. Danny was
inclined to oppose, but philosophy restrained him.
Chapter XXIV .
DANNY had banished the second
planet from his personal sky.
Johanna was dependent upon him
once more. He sank into the
; comforts of Bewuck, varied by visits to
Norah and Stewart Butler at New Glenties. There
was the expectation of grandchildren. There were
cures for rust in wheat, and new varieties of potatoes ;
but with the slackening of effort he suffered from
dullness and went often to the township for the allevia-
tion of conversation.
Burrabinga remained a camp stripped of table
and bed linen, and crockery when broken was replaced
by tin ware. Danny said there was no sinse in wasting
Elegancies on min.‘ Saplings sprang up in the orchard,
holes were worked in the fence of the garden, and
marsupials destroyed everything. The possums were
always first to harvest the fruit. The presence of
women was needed to drive the Delacys to home
comforts. They never used any but packing-needles
nor learned to cook beyond salt junk and damper and
tea without milk.
Robert missed human association after his reign
at Bewuck, but quickly arranged the work so that
others took the brunt of running wild cattle and
horses by Bullock Gap or Wild Horse Plain while
the business down Keebah way fell to him. For this
he took the best saddle-horses. There was a difference
between the saddle and stock horse as wide as that
maintained by Johanna between herself and the gurrls
she trained as surrvants. The saddle horses were bent
to paces as young ladies and gentlemen were taught
deportment and dancing.
Robert’s taste in horses was infallible, but his
aristocrats were sometimes second-rate for following
mobs up and down their native precipices, and he was
outclassed on the stock horse in roughriding.
Nevertheless Harry wor-
shipped him and took hard
labor off his shoulders as
much as possible. Harry had
his father’s fearlessness. He
craved a hero, to die for if
necessary, and Robert, with
his plumes
freshly
upon him,
fitted the
conception,
a c c e pted
homage and brought a new element into the Keebah
circle.
He wore top-boots, stylish breeches and showy
spurs, had a marvel of the whip-maker’s art and was
followed by all the dogs. Harry’s whip was roughly
plaited by himself, had a hickory handle, and his
raiment was in keeping ; but the contrast he presented
only added to his pride in Robert as a dandy. Robert
had glamor, with the tales of girls doing scandalous
things to trap his love, and glamor is as necessary as
salt to youths of a certain temperament.
William was more judicial and critical, and his
attitude grew censorious after Janet Urquhart fell
desperately in love with Robert. He had never
believed Robert guiltless in the Grace and Molly
cases. No charmer ever is. Janet, Elspeth and
Jeanie —all three could see no other sun when Robert's
shone. William contemptuously attributed this to
Robert's breeches and boots. He secured a good
turnout for himself but nevertheless remained an
honest frump. He had no long mirror in which to
appraise the difference in deportment between himself
and his brother, but saw it in the indifference of the
girls.
~r HE community received another woman. The
I Charles Fullwoods had had enough of Bella, and
she was weary of the restrictions of Heulong. She
had acquired a set of manners that could be put on
and off like a dolman, she could write a letter and
read the newspaper, and so was literate for the times.
She insisted upon James making a home near
Bullock Gap, at Cherry Tree Hill, and the Delacy
men did not stand aloof. Fullwood had not been
caught stealing their cattle for over two years, and
there was no withstanding Bella. She gave them good
meals. She rode to Burrabinga with a pack-horse
and possessed herself of flowers and shrubs from
Della’s garden. The Urquharts and Anguses liked
her. She was a woman free from complainings, ready
and able to bring forth a brood in solitude and hard-
ship. If her husband took a nobbier or a beast here
and there no one held her responsible.
Tom Angus had married in India and meant to
make his home there. George Angus arrived to
support the precocious Ned, who had been carrying
on alone at Birrabee with a stockman. George created
a sensation. Robert nearly had to take second place.
He had more address than all the Delacys together,
and handled harness horses in a way to turn Robert
pale with envy, especially as he was gaoled in the
valley by Delacy’s mountain to be scaled only by
horses as surefooted as goats, and no place to use a
vehicle.
The Keebah girls thus had two glories, with
William as a fallback and young Harry and Ned as
reserves. Janet adored Robert. He was pleasant in
return, but he was no longer very young, had had two
disastrous entanglements, and could find pleasure in
more than one woman at a time. Little Jeanie was
the joy of Ned and Harry, to whom a divinity was
necessary. Ned missed Della, who had so long been
his tutoress.
Saturday nights now found the young men
gathered at Keebah instead of Burrabinga. There
was a deal of horseplay and practical jokes. William
saw what he saw and thought what
he thought. ,Having been buried
in solitude, he was too shy and
nervous to push to the front, so
resigned himself to talk with old
Urquhart of the relation of fenc-
ing and dingoes to woolgrowihg.
One evening a stupendous
racket drew everyone to find a
race in progress. All the hardwood
forms from the schoolhouse and
kitchen were in line', each with a
jockey—males astride, females
crumpled sideways. The male
winner was to bestow a kiss upon
a maiden of his own choosing. The
lady winner was to name a gentle-
man to embrace her. The pro-
prieties, independent of science,
held that male amour was a
Niagara that must be stemmed,
and that women’s resistance,
armored in distaste, had to be stormed.
William longed to be a contestant but would have
bolted from the prize as a dangerous immorality. The
men romped away with limb-endangering determina-
tion to be first. The girls all ended level as a conces-
sion to self-conscious modesty. Robert proclaimed
that every girl had won. Much giggling and blushing
ensued.
George Angus won and claimed Janet the hand-
some and inarticulate, whose unselfish appreciation of
the social contributions of others made her a favorite
with exhibitionists. Harry said that George had not
won fairly. He resented George’s aspiring to any
young woman favored by Robert, but this George
ignored as jealousy.
In the next race Robert chose Janet, who
exclaimed “Oh, I couldn’t be kissing with everyone
looking on!”
Laughter and bucolic ribaldry greeted this, but
Robert was equal to the occasion. “Come into the
garden among the roses: anything to please a lady.”
A dangerous precedent was established. William
concluded that all girls were as bold as Bella, and
took to his role of Joseph. He neither desired to
sin nor to be subjected to shopworn goods. There-
after he was regarded as being
“cut out for an old bachelor.”
The Anguses brought their
sister Susan to Birrabee, a bright
girl who could ride as well as her
brothers and was popular with all.
Three of the young Urquharts fell
prone in love with her, and Mrs.
Urquhart took her word on house-
hold arrangements as inspired.
SOON the friendliness between
the Delacys and Anguses
was endangered. Robert could do
no wrong in Harry’s eyes, and so
when the Anguses clashed with
Robert they could do no right. It
fell out one Monday morning as
the young men rode from Keebah
that Harry was hopping off his
horse every mile or so and shaping-
up to George on Robert’s behalf.
accepted all homage without embarrass-
ment, but George was uneasy through this demonstra-
liked voune Harrv and both Ammses were
bent on keeping" out® of trouble. George Wished to
Sumt to a Delacy or an Urquhart and himself
10 Jdnei-
(To be continued next week.)


£55 for Short Stories
For the best short stories, serious or humorous, submitted before
January 31, 1937, “The Bulletin” offers the following prize-
money :
First £3O
Second . £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Best Brief Story £5
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be paid for at
"Bulletin” rates.
Closing date for the competition is January 31, 1937. But it is not
intended to wait till then before publishing entries; any considered to
have a chance will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand.. At the close of the competition ALL the entries will
be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor’s hitherto unpublished original work,
and must be accompanied by a declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 5000 words. The special prize of £5 for the
best brief story will go to the best story of 1000 words or less. It, of
course, will also have equal chance with longer entries of taking any
of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full names and addresses of the winners
will be published when the results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as he or she desires,
and there is no entry fee.
No member of “The Bulletin” staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:—
"Short Story Competition,"
C/o "THE BULLETIN,"
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
For over a century the Bank has maintained
its stability in times of economic stress,
expanding its activities in times of pros-
perity, and prudently administering to the
needs of its customers and their descendants.
HEAD OFFICE
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and at Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FRO VI "THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, **/ ® FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
A Study of Old Age:-
TEMER
BY
ROBERT L. WILSON
LARRY picked himself up stiffly from
the dust and filth of the stockyard
and sidled and backed in among the
jamb of lusty Hereford calves in quest
of revenge upon the lustiest, to whom
belonged the honor of his fall. Young
Alec had made a half-movement to join
issue as it bored its way into the jamb,
but the glare in old Larry’s eye checked
him.
Did they think that he, Larry, was
going to be beaten by a six-months calf?
Larry, who had roped steers in Texas,
and drifted, via the Argentine, to a
twenty-year sojourn in the Queensland
cattle country. Did they think he was
too old to hold down a job on a bit of
a Maoriland station? Head stockman?
Good God! If they’d been where he’d
been they’d know what a head stock-
man was. It was all there, in Larry’s
eye, so they left him to it, him and the
biggest calf. Nobody smiled ; it would
need the boss, standing there waiting
with knife and earmarkers, to start that,
for Larry was head stockman, and dis-
cipline is discipline.
So Alec, while the tail of his eye fol-
lowed Larry, picked another calf and
dumped it deftly so that its ribs thudded.
Instantly he had the help of a mate to
hold it down while the boss busied him-
self with the knife. The boss, bending,
intent on the work in hand, only felt
the action above and beyond his screen-
ing hat brim. He straightened suddenly ;
a further bending as the earmarkers
snicked ; a sharp “Right!” and all three
straightened while a now more subdued
calf rejoined the mob.
Then the boss raised a voice that the
straining, glaring Larry could not but
hear. “Hell, boys, these calves are
strong. It’ll take the lot of us to down
that chap that
Larry’s got.”
He moved in,
followed by the
other two, and his
voice rose higher.
“That’s the good
spring rains for
you, Larry. I’ve
never seen such
calve s.” H e
joined his grip to
Larry’s with a
flank hold, the
younger two seek-
ing room for a
hold.
D UT all of them knew. The
' two agreed in the privacy
of the room they shared tnat
it was sporting of the boss,
and it was just pure bad luck
that Larry had chosen the
biggest calf. The boss had
known that it would come,
but wondered how he could
keep it from Larry that
he knew now that it had come.
He put Larry on to the break-
ing of the annual crop of
young horses a month earlier
than usual. Larry entered that
with the vigor of a youth and
the brooding look that never-
left him now.
He was not deceived. Spring grass be
damned! But he would show them all
yet. He could still ride. A bit stiff, yes,
but none of this lot was the bit of stuff
to dust him, Larry O’Neill, with all
those twenty years and the Queensland
brumbies to his credit. But that was
ten years ago, and so the brooding look
persisted.
Larry took the leading part in handling
the twenty three-year-olds, even more so
than in former years. His was the first
hand to pass caressingly up from the
quivering nostrils to the eyes and the
ears, and so on down the neck to the
flinching shoulder, as each in turn, after
that cruel period of frantic straining
against the choking noose, acknowledged,
truce-like, the power of the rope. His
was the first leg across the youngster’s
back as, with one hind foot' roped to
the neck, each made its stultified three-
legged protest.
And so on, through the many days of
handling, Larry’s two assistants taking
each off his hands as it qualified for
routine treatment; and then on to that
final mounting, with tightened girths and
all four legs free. And it was always
Larry’s foot that first insinuated itself
gently and deftly into the off stirrup, be-
fore the youngster realised that Larry’s
leg had crossed the saddle, and that
now indeed was the gauntlet down.
DEFORE they were half-way through
the twenty, they agreed that the
“spring rains” theory of the boss’s was
equally applicable to the horses. The
point in each horse’s career when he
could be turned over to station hands
for general station work seemed to be
unusually long in coming; and the
worst were still to be handled.
Larry had picked three upon whose
pedigree he could safely gamble, and
assigned them one apiece for the
breakers’ own use, until they should out-
live possible outlaw propensities.
Of these he kept the one for himself
that by all rules of heredity should have
been the last to accept defeat. It may
have been that Larry’s recent abnormal
desire to demonstrate his efficiency had
a psychological effect on the horse, for
beyond a few pigroots there did not
seem to be a decent buck in him, and
Larry in disgust turned him over to a
shepherd, remarking that you never
knew how the would throw back,
this one to a “blasted polfree.”
He perked up, however, when Alec's
mount threw his rider in a straight-out
trial where there were no ifs or buts,
and gave him a stiff shoulder which
seemed likely to last him a week or
more, thereby giving Larry the oppor-
tunity he was looking for.
From his point of view there was no-
thing else to do but ride that horse to a
standstill. If he didn’t there would be
sure to be some of them to think that
he had given Alec the worst horse to
ride, a horse that he couldn’t ride him-
self.
NO man ever put foot into stirrup
with a stronger will to conquer than
did Larry when he recaptured Alec’s
horse, quivering and wicked-eyed, with
the sweat still wet upon him. and with
the extra devilishness of one that has
eaten of the Fruit of the Tree of Know-
ledge of Good and Evil.
Larry knew Alec’s capabilities as a
rider, and, with Alec thrown, psychology
was at a discount. He knew, too, that
he would be lucky if he got the off
stirrup before the fun started.
And he did not get it. By sheer ability
he had crossed the saddle an instant
before the horse’s side jump could leave
him behind. But there was no shadow
of a chance to get the swinging stirrup.
It was a knee-and-leg grip or nothing.
But he was there, and in similar circum-
stances he had been used to staying
there. If he could only get that other
stirrup to take some of the jar! Surely
those other horses had given him a
moment’s respite from this long
desperate leg grip, a respite long enough
to kick a foot through a stirrup. But
had they? No, some of them hadn’t and
he had managed.
He could not remember ever having
had this feeling of touch and go, this
feeling that the next buck must wrench
his knees upward from the kneepads.
And the lopsidedness of riding with one
stirrup had never before been such a
handicap. Spring rains? A bitter shade
of a smile set round his mouth. He
snatched off his hat and flogged the
horse on shoulder and flank. If this
were to be his last flutter he wasn’t
going to humor the horse. Let him do
his damnedest.
Out they went across the stockyard
paddock and through the gateway,
Larry’s knee missing the gatepost by
inches; along the creek flat by the track
that led down the bank in a stock-worn
gutter to the ford where the creek
turned at right angles. Across the knee-
deep ford, horse and rider obscured in
a smother of spray, up the silt-floored
gutter of the further bank and, with off


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
rfieus $ can sHco£e 0 udalt
a*te/net
tvirvty
G&cnZf
<*■*- -j*
SMOKx
mmmiM
mm®
mmmrnm
1
I ■ iH
■"■■■
THIS SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE , 1/r
SMOKt STAINS
A SAfB WAY
REMOVES
Special stain-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is not contained in any other
leading dentifrice. Make the simple test that surprises smokers. Thousands
find dull, ugly teeth become naturally white and sparkling.
If you smoke, you’ve probably noticed stains on your teeth, or an ugly yellow
smudge. Now there is a way to keep the faintest smoke trace from showing on
your teeth. This way is Pepsodent, the special film-removing tooth paste.
No matter what dentifrice you now use, switch to Pepsodent to-day and make
the smokers’ test. See how Pepsodent immediately "takes hold” to make teeth
cleaner, whiter, more attractive. Let your mirror, prove that they glisten with
natural whiteness many smokers think impossible to attain.
It Works in a More Effective Way
In Pepsodent is a special ingredient designed especially to remove the film on
teeth. It is this film, not the teeth themselves, that smoke discolors. Therefore,
this film must be removed if you want to escape that unnatural yellow color.
It is film your dentist tells you to remove in fighting tooth decay and other dental
troubles.
This remarkable film-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is contained in no other
leading dentifrice. Not only does it bring out the natural whiteness of your
teeth, but it also polishes enamel to the highest brilliance. In addition, this
"Special Film-Removing tooth paste” has another major distinction: it is the
softest . . . and therefore the safest ... of 15 leading
tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders as shown by
scientific tests.
Try Pepsodent to-day. Not until you do can you
know how beautifully white your teeth are.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
Fn new larger tubes
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have cut
costs and we are passing
the saving on to you.
The identical time-proved
Pepsodent is ready for you,
in the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
N 1 363
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
cfhe
Coro aatlon
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
stirrup still aswing, across the flat to
where on the hillside the spare horses
fed.
SINCE Alec’s defeat, a few men had
gathered at the yards to see the
horse, and perhaps that was why Larry’s
hat still flapped along the length of
the bucking body and round his mouth
the bitter smile persisted. If he had
kept his hat quiet, there might have
come a chance to get his stirrup. It was
as if he scorned to admit to the group
of watchers that a stirrup was essential.
The boss, alone of those there, under-
stood, but kept his counsel. He feared
for Larry now that it looked impossible
to stop the horse joining the mob. For
Larry to be apparently urging him there
made the case worse. Nothing to be
done but wait for the accident that
seemed imminent. Larry might still wear
the horse down, but that was unlikely.
The boss shook his head.
Up among the mob of grazing horses
swept the pair, scattering them ; through
and up to the furthest horse, a quiet old
mare that, unperturbed, filched a few
mouthfuls of fresher grass from over the
fence.
It looked as though the horse was
about to jump; then he baulked, in
spite of the ceaseless flailing of Larry’s
hat, swung round and cannoned into
the mare. As the youngster's head came
up he turned side on to the fence, and
the slackened rein caught on the post.
The momentary cessation of the buck-
ing had given Larry the chance he had
been waiting for, and he got the stirrup.
But there was a sudden slide of the
reins through his fingers as the horse
jerked back from the post, snapping the
headstrap and jerking the broken bridle
off his head.
Forced to his haunches by the recoil
of the breaking bridle, the horse
responded to the flogging of the hat,
and started off bucking as before, in
the wake of the startled horses. Down-
hill they went; Larry now seated like
a rock, with his left hand twisted in the
mane, both feet firm in the stirrups, and
his right hand giving blow for buck.
Round the creek flat and up the hill
again to the furthest corner of the pad-
dock, across the siding and down the
hill again.
The next hill told. The bucking
ceased ; the pace became a lumbering
canter, increasing to a half-hearted imi-
tation of his former activity on the
downhill run again. He did his best to
keep up to the other horses, but was
obviously becoming disheartened, and
when, on the next ascent, the mob dis-
covered that there wasn’t anything to
fear from this strange pair behind them,
he was quite content to accommodate his
pace to theirs.
'"THEY would have driven the horses
1 in quietly, but Larry would have
none of it. “Into the with the
whip ; I want to find the bottom of this
bloke.” In the yards he dismounted.
The set smile was gone ; gone, too, the
brooding look. In its place was the
look of a man who has done what he
set out to do. He leaned against a
post and slowly and deliberately fished
out from various pockets the makings of
a cigarette, glancing up quickly at inter-
vals as if to make sure the horse was
still among the others.
He thrust the matches back into his
pocket and seemed suddenly to become
aware of the knot of men. “Would
any of you blokes with a horse mind
getting my busted bridle from off that
top fence? I’d like to get it on to his
nibs while he’s warm.”
The boss broke in. “You go, Johnny ;
and you other chaps can get on with
that job at the woolshed.” The two,
manager and head stockman, were left
alone.
Neither spoke; Larry blowing little
puffs of smoke towards the restless
horses, and the boss regarding him
quietly and curiously. Larry at last
broke the silence, turning to face his
boss. “You were wrong.”
The boss’s eyebrows went up. “How?”
“About the spring grass. I’m too
damned old. I knew it when I couldn’t
throw that calf, and that bloke” —he
nodded towards the horse —“nearly had
me three or four times. And he
shouldn’t have ; he can’t buck for nuts.”
The boss started to speak, but Larry
held up a hand. “It’s no good, I know.
And the old man said to me, back in
the old days when I left the Old Country
to try my luck in the States, ‘Larry,’ he
said, ‘the day’ll come when you’ll know
that you’re too old to ride ’em, and it’ll
be only bad temper’ll make you go on.
And bad temper and a horse don’t go
together.’ It was right what he said.
It was only temper kept me on that
bloke. The others needn’t ever know ;
I’m telling you because you’ve got to
know why I’ll be pulling out as soon
as young Alec's fit again.”
“But what will you do?” The boss’s
voice was a bit husky.
“The old man thought of that. ‘When
the day comes,’ he said, ‘it’ll be your
duty to see that the young ’uns have
something decent to ride. The ol
place’ll still be here.’ ” Larry’s face lit
up. “And it still is. Some of us are
there. I’ve saved a few quid, and I’m
going back to breed ’em.”
“Rats, Ladies and Gents., is
Man’s Greatest Enemy”:—
RATS
BY G.C.B.
I TAKE my work
very serious.
Rats spread dis-
ease, and when-
ever I ’ear of a
case of enteric or
appendicitis or the
like I worry some-
thin’ awful. Be-
sides, it’s a blow
to my professional
pride.
“Ernest Raggles,”
1 ses to myself,
“it’s your duty
to prevent disease. It’s true you
ain't paid near wot Dr. Biles is paid
tor just curin' disease, but it’s your duty
just the same.” And then I doubles my
efforts and don’t let up till the disease
is well in ’and. I don’t get no praise or
thanks, but I carry on, quiet and efficient,
sayin’ nothin’, while Dr. Biles takes all
the credit and charges accordin’.
1 hen there’s the abuse I put up with.
From the way some of the townsfolk
talk you’d think that the only place that
don't need professional visits from the
ratcatcher is the local pub. You’d think
the smell of beer kept rats away instead
of attractin’ them in thousands.
I said so to Mr. Wallis, the Town
Clerk, when he spoke to me about the
time I spend in the bar of the Shelterin’
Palm.
Raggles,” he ses, “if the smell of
beer attracted rats they’d be followin’ you
up and down the streets like faithful
dogs.”
“I. ain’t goin’ to argue about it, Mr.
Wallis,” I ses quietly ; “but rats is cun-
nin', and they know wot’s good for them
just the same as me and you.”
Which is perfectly true. I haven’t
studied rats all these years without learn-
m a lot about them. I've got a dozen
pet rats at 'ome, and you wouldn’t be-
lieve the hours I've spent studyin’ them
and teachin’ them tricks.
Not that I’ve got
fame or honor for
all my study. If
I’d picked on some
other animal, such
as the beaver, 1
might ’ave been
famous to-day, be-
cause I read in the
paper about a
bloke who’d spent
twenty years learn-
in’ all about the
beaver, and in con-
sequ e n c e was
highly looked up to and ’ad a whole
string of letters after ’is name. Still,
I’m not grumblin’. I just ’appened to
pick on the wrong animals. It’s fate.
YOU’LL ’ardly credit it, but once there
* was a move afoot to ’ave my position
abolished. It was Mrs. Buxton, the
grocer’s wife, who started it; and the
way she went on at the Progress Asso-
ciation about able-bodied men loafin’
about with a few rat-traps and pretendin’
to work was shameful to listen to.
When she’d ’ad ’er say and flopped
into ’er seat, pantin’, I stood up.
“Rats, ladies and gents.,” I ses, “is
man’s greatest enemy.”
“They’re your greatest friends,” puts
in Mrs. Buxton’s ’usband, a little, thin-
faced bloke with a sharp nose.
. “They ain’t me relations, anyway,” I
ses, lookin’ at ’im.
“Rats,” I ses, “must be kept down.
You say there ain't enough rats 'ere to
warrant a ratcatcher. Well, that only
proves that I’m doin’ my work well, and
I thank you for the compliment. And
I must remind you, ladies and gents.,
that I ain’t paid so much for the labor
I do as for wot this town would be like
if I wasn’t ’ere. In other words, I’m the
same as the police. You must think of


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at Lowest Current Ra es
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months' period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
your ’ealth, and you must think of the
'ealth of your children. If the money
this town pays me is more important
than the 'ealth of your darling little kids,
then, ladies and gents., abolish me by all
means.”
Well, that swayed some of ’em, especi-
ally young Halley, the bank clerk, who
’as an only baby boy; but it didn’t make
no difference to Mrs. Buxton, who says
she’ll ’ave me abolished if it’s the last
thing she does. And I think she would
'ave too, if she ’adn’t walked out of ’er
kitchen a few mornings later and stepped
right on to a great big grey rat.
As soon as she ’ad finished ’er hys-
terics she tore up to Mr. Wallis and told
'im to send me down ; and for two weeks
I set traps for that fat grey rat, with
Mrs. Buxton watchin’ me anxiously
from ’er kitchen window.
J T ’ad ’er properly scared. She couldn’t
* sleep a wink at night for the noise that
rat made trampin’ about on the ceilin’;
and she got that way she wouldn’t dare
set ’er foot outside the kitchen door after
sunset; and even in the day she’d poke
'er ’ead out and take a careful look
around before goin’ out. She lost weight
with worry, but she was still ’eavy
enough to wreck half ’er chairs with
jumpin’ on ’em every time she ’eard a
board creak.
When I did catch that rat in a cage-
trap and showed ’im to ’er she nearly
swooned with relief.
“Wot a monster!” she ses, shudderin’.
“If you ’adn’t caught ’im I should ’ave
gone mad, Raggles. My nerves is all
to pieces. I can’t thank you enough.”
“It’s my duty, Mrs. Buxton,” I ses
quietly. “It’s Wot I’m paid for.”
"You ain’t paid enough,” she ses. “I’m
goin’ to use my influence with the coun-
cil to get you a rise.”
AND she did. And if anyone ’as a
word to say now against the rat-
catcher' he ’as Mrs. Buxton to reckon
with.
1 still ’ave that fat grey rat. Matter
of fact,, I ’ad ’im six months before Mrs.
Buxton ’ad ’im.
Mr, Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-General Pilkington Again:-
OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M- ABBOTT
ARABELLA
VISITING his friend Mr. Gregory
Wicks, R.N., the first-lieutenant of
H.M.S. Emu, on board the brig-of-
war as she lay at anchor in the mouth
of Sydney Cove on a sunny afternoon in
1817, Mr. Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-
General Pilkington became aware of two
important facts. That is to say, they
seemed to him to be important in their
bearing upon certain problems having to
do with Mr. Wicks’s happiness and wel-
fare, with which, in the goodness of his
heart, he had recently been concerning
himself. One was that seamen are in-
corrigible sentimentalists, and the other
that immature and charming females are
the very devil.
Mr. Pilkington paced the quarter-deck
of the warship plunged in the pro-
foundest meditation. In the Great Cabin
in the stern, staring through its big
windows at the sparkling surface of Port
Jackson, despair and rapture alternately
inspiring his poetic faculties, sat Mr.
Wicks, temporarily in command of the
man-o’-war during the captain’s absence
on a shooting expedition in the foothills
of the Blue Mountains, fatuously en-
gaged in the composition of an ode, or
a sonnet, or something equally degrad-
ing, in the opinion of Mr. Pilkington,
to a gentleman holding his Majesty’s
commission as an officer of the Royal
Navy.
Mr. Pilkington had grown tired of
supplying words that rhymed to a person
who was never designed by Nature to
be a poet, and of giving polite Opinions
as to lines that did not scan and meant
nothing at all, so had come out of the
poop to take the air and to escape for
a time the intolerable company of Mr.
Wicks’s clodhopping Muse. He had every
sympathy for his friend —but felt there
were some things that not even friend-
ship of the most unselfish sort could
be expected to endure in too liberal
measure. One of these was the undivided
burden of a lover’s confidences.
His ambulatory cogitations were sud-
denly interrupted by a bellow from the
interior of the poop.
“Hi, Brummell, old boy —come in here.
I’ve got it done. Come in here, and I’ll
read it to you.”
With a sigh of resignation Mr. Pilking-
ton passed by the sentry and entered the
cabin. There was no doubt, he reflected,
that, if the first-lieutenant’s love affairs
were troublesome to the peace of mind
of that dashing officer, they were in-
finitely more so to his friends. He had
doubts whether such open scoffing as
Ensign Calder would have used was not
a better policy than the sympathetic
attitude he had himself adopted. How-
ever, he was much attached to Mr. Wicks,
and ruefully reflected that he would be
compelled to pay the price of such
attachment to the uttermost farthing.
He sat down in Captain Fletcher’s arm-
chair, and prepared himself for the
worst.
Mr. Wicks took up some loose sheets
of paper from the round table at which
he had been writing, and began to pace,
back and forward, the length of the low-
roofed cabin. There was a look of en-
thusiasm and exaltation' in his face
which his guest could not but observe
with foreboding. His countenance was
flushed, and the spring in his step be-
trayed a satisfaction with himself that
Mr. Pilkington could only regard as
ominous.
“I’ve done it, Brum, old boy—and, by
heavens, it reads most gloriously. By
Gad, there’s no doubt poetry’s the stuff
to give ’em. Especially those like ’Bella.
No other way to approach ’em, old lad
—no other way at all. Just cast your eye
over this, and tell me what you think
of it.”
He held out a sheet of paper to Mr.
Pilkington, who received it with gravity
and resignation. Without a smile, he
read the first stanza carefully, with an
air of respectful admiration for the
gifted genius who could produce such
verse:
O Lovely One,
The Moon is Bright,
As it shines by Night ;
But thy Lovely Eyes are brighter.
My Soul is sore,
And I know no Law,
Save of the Love
To you I bear —
O Sweet and Fayre,
O Lovely One.
After reading this moving apostrophe
carefully, Mr. Pilkington laid the manu-
script on his knee and gazed thoughtfully
out upon the shining surface of the
harbor, whose dancing reflections lit with
moving glimmers of light the white ceil-
ing of the cabin.
“Go on, that’s not all of it, Brummell.
There are five more verses—and the last
one’s the best. Damme, I’d no idea I
could do as well as that!” said Mr.
Wicks. “Shows you what a man can
do when he’s properly moved—don’t
it?”
“Egad, yeth, Panthy—it motht ther-
tainly doth. It theemth to me you could
be capable of anything after that.”
“Lud, Brum —you flatter me!” sim-
pered the poet. “Anyway, ’tis not half
good enough for that divine creature —
damme if ’tis. But go ahead—you
haven’t got to the best part of it yet.”
Mr. Pilkington rose to his feet, being
compelled to bend his head, in deference
to a deck beam above. He also shook it
mournfully.
“No, Panthy—l think not. I fear
I am too thutheptible to thuch emo-
thional verthe. I’ll take it ath wead. But
why tho archaic in addwething Mith
Molyne? There ith nothing archaic about
that young lady, tho far ath ever I have
obtherved. On the contwarwy, I thyould
thay she wath ultwa-modern.”
“Oh, dammit, Brum —you’re too
prosaic. ’Tis romantic to write like that.
It appeals to —that is, it is more accept-
able to the fair sex, who are all romance
and than the ordinary way
of putting things. Damn my tops’ll
you don’t mean to say you’re not going
to dine aboard? Put your hat down.
Have a drop of rum. Oh, damme, you’re
not going yet, are you?”
“I have a little buthineth to attend
to, my dear fellow. I beg you will
ecthcuthe me. I weally cannot wait.
You have my betht witheth, my dear boy.
But do not, I ecthort you —do not
thtwain your affectionth unduly. There
are dithappointmenth, you know —there
are dithappointmenth. An we voir,
Panthy, my buck— au w'evoir.”
WHEN he landed at the King’s Wharf,
Mr. Pilkington’s business took him
immediately to the barracks in George-
street. Here he sought out Ensign Calder
in his quarters, where he found that
young gentleman also busy with pen and
paper.
“God bleth my thoul, Patwick,” he ex-
claimed. “Have you altho wooed the
Muthe?”
“Have I done what ?”
“I wondered, my dear Patwick, whether
you, altho, had taken to poetwy. 1
have had quite enough of the thothiety
of the poetic Muthe thith afternoon to
thuffithe me for a long time. 1 twutht
’tith not ath bad ath that with you, old
Patwick. I do, indeed!”
“What the devil—me make verses!
Gad, no—-I’m engaged in an entirely
prosaic transaction, my dear Brum —
that of staving off a dun. That’s all I’m
doing. But who’s been making up
poetry?”
“The unfortunate Panthy —he hath a
bad attack of it. Vewy bad indeed.”
“Good Lord —what’s gone wrong with
him?”
“The lovely daughter of our ethteemed
mutual friend Major Molyne —Mith
Awabella Molyne. She hath bewitched
our gallant tar. He’th made a poem —
or thomething he callth a poem—about
a yard long. The wortht poem I’ve ever
encountered; I atthure you it ith, Pat-
wick. A motht damnable and detholat-
ing poem. In thyort, it may be thaid to
be a hell of a poem. But whatth the
matter, Pat?”
Mr. Calder had risen to his feet, whist-
ling his astonishment.
“Well, I’ll be doubly damned!” he
ejaculated. “That little sinner! God save
the kitten! Poor old Pansy!”
Mr. Pilkington raised his eyebrows
and took snuff.
“Well, but the pwetty little ’Bella, my
dear Pat. If a fellowth going to get in-
fatuated-well, he might do worthe,
mightn't he? Quite a jolly little girl, 1
think. For thome weathonth—if he
weren’t thuch an infernal bore about it —
I'd be inclined to congwatulate him upon
hith good tathte. Yeth, indeed. There
are far leth pleathing little fillieth in the
thettlement than Awabella Molyne—even
if her papa ith thomething of a bore
with hith Wellingtonion everlathting-
neth. 1 don’t blame Gweg a bit—ecthept
for hith twuly awful poetwy. Not a
bit!”
“I don’t know,” observed Mr. Calder
with an air of doubt. “You see, Brum,
old boy, I happen to know a bit about
the lovely little ’Bella. I’ll admit that,
so far as looks go, she’s everything that
might be desired. The best eyes and the
finest complexion in the colony. And
her hair’s so glorious. But of all the she-
devils who ever existed, commend me to
that same little spitfire. Why,” he went
on in an injured tone, “I went to kiss her
once —as anyone might pay such a com-
pliment to a pretty girl—and d’ye know
what she did to me? Why, dammit, she
actually doubled up her little fist and hit
me on the nose. And then she took it
between her finger and thumb, and
damned nigh twisted it from my face.
Oh, damn her, she’s a little bit too
strong!”
“Weally, now! You dithturb me, Pat-
wick. If Mith Molyne ith thuch a ter-
magant ath all that—well, she’th thurely
no fit mate for our hearty thailor-lad, ith
she? It wouldn’t do at all. Why,
Panthy would be perpetually having hith
nothe pulled and hith earth boxed. Hith
ugly old phiz would alwayth be in hoth-
pital. And tho would hith tender heart.
No, no —we mutht thave our good
fwiend from thuch a fate ath that. Too
good a fellow to be immolated on the
altar of a shrew. By the way,” he asked
Mr. Calder, brightening over the idea—
“might it not be pothible for Panthy to
tame the shrew? How about that ath-
pect of the quethtion?”
“Tame her? How d’ye mean tame
her?”
“Well, to convert her to gentler wayth.
you know. There are many methodth of
tweatment for thuch hard catheth ath


At your request zee shall he
pleased to forzeard polder
No'.- 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient'
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
wMiMwmmmmwmfflft
BtLVtOEKi PX
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
LVCOtfV
pwetty little Awabella. He might come
the thtwong man, and”
Ensign Calder interrupted him ini-
patiently. “Oh, don’t talk damned foolish-
ness, Brummell. The only way to tame
that little vixen would be by knocking
her on the head, and giving her another
knock every time she recovered again,
I tried the bold, strong-man dodge when
I went to kiss her, and look what I got
ior it! Better to wreck the whole affair,
that's what I think. To queer Pansy’s
prospects with the little devil, that’s the
best turn we could do him.
Mr. Pilkington sighed, and rose to his
feet. For a minute he paced the floor in
deep meditation. When he spoke it was
with the air of one who has made up
his mind.
“Vewy well, then, Patwick. We will
dwivc out to Major Molyne’th on That-
urday afternoon, and will devithe
thtepth, in the meantime, to dithawange
(hith unthuitable match. ’Tith not, of
courth, our affair at all—but Panthy ith
the dear fwiend of both of uth. He
mutht be thaved. ’Tith our unpleathant
duty to wetheue him from thith impend-
ing fate. You will come with me on
Thalurday, Patwick?”
“Oh, yes, of course. I’ve a high re-
gard for Pansy Wicks. I’ll go with you,
(hough it’s dangerous—a damned ticklish
business, interfering in the affairs of
that young woman. But I’ll take the
risk, for Gregory’s sake.”
THE drawing-room at Waterloo Villa,
I lhe imposing homestead of Majo
Percival Molyne (Ret.) at his estate on
j .i ,
the Parramatta-road out beyond the
swamps at the head of what we now call
Darlmg Harboi which was then known
as Cockle Bay was furnished and deco-
rated much as might have been ex-
pected by any who knew its owner. His
firm belief that he resembled the Iron
Duke, not only in appearance but in
character, was reflected on its walls to an
impressive degree. Several portraits of
(he victor of Waterloo at different stages
of his career, framed copies of some of
his shorter despatches, and relics from
Peninsular battlefields were the princi-
pal objects of interest to be observed in
its scheme of decoration. Crossed
muskets above the door, spherical shells
on the occasional tables, draperies that
were made up of lorn and weathered
Union Jacks and regimental guidons
ornamenting the windows shouted aloud
to all who entered <he rooim War, and
Wellington, the God of War.
To the scarlet-clad Ensign Calder ana
the magnificent Mr. Pilkington there
entered such a vision of diminutive
female loveliness, ten minutes after their
arrival at Waterloo Villa, as might have
appealed to them to refrain from inter-
ference. But they both felt the call of
duty j n a righteous and overwhelming
fash ion. This exquisite little bit of femi-
ninity was not going to hoodwink them
w jth dainty mannerisms and alluring
charms. Their guileless sailor was to be
saved at a u costs . That was why they
were there, and that was going to be the
result of their visit to this siren’s lair.
“And why,” presently asked their
hostess, as she dispensed tea from a
silver urn that had the appearance of a
mo rtar, sugaring it from half a shell-
case most elegantly mounted on a silver
representation of a cheval-de-frise. “why,
pray, Mr. Pilkington, have you not
brought with you Lieutenant Wicks? I
had thought that you three were quite
inseparable—even for an afternoon —
when your duties did not forbid your
enjoying one another’s society. Gregory”
—she flushed prettily—“l mean Mr.
Wicks, has assured me tis so. Why is
he not here?
Mr - Pilkington cleared his throat, a
]itt le nervously. “Well, you thee, my
dear Mith Molyne, our Gwegorwy hath
" ot been himthelfe of late. Not by a
Bwe *‘ d ? al - He: appearth to have fallen
n '° tht £a * u <? uthl 7 111 , 1 1 ° ve w ‘ h
girl or other, and conthequently ith not
CO mpany for man or beatht. Be-
thideth 5 hith habith of life are not thuch>
j n thethe dayth, ath appeal to Mr.
Calder and mythelf. There are limith
to everything, you know. For our we-
putationth thaketh, we cannot afford to
allow ourthelveth to be compwomithed
by indulging in the thort of amuthe-
menth that latterly theem to have ab-
thorbed Mr. Wickth. They—ah—are not
done in polite thothiety, you know,
Thomething of a coldneth hath gwown
up between poor Gwegorwy and Mr.
Calder and mythelf—which we infi-
nitely wegwet, but are powerleth to alter,
Moth difhtwething, it hath beep to me.
And to you, altho, hath it not, Patwick?
Oh, vewy lamentable—but quite un-
avoidable, I athure you, Mith Molyne.”
The little blonde beauty glanced from
one hypocrite to another. She laughed
delightedly.
“Dear me! And has our gallant sailor
boy become something of a rake, then,
that you two gentlemen, for the sake of
your reputations, should be distressed by
having to throw his society aside? What
a pity! La, la —these men!” she sighed,
shaking her glorious head demurely.
“You never can tell, can you?”
Mr. Calder nodded with affected
gloom. “Yes—l’m sorry to say Gregory
Wicks has become a bit too strong, even
for me —and I’m not particular. But
there are limits, as Arthur says—there
are some things that are not done in the
society of gentlemen. I am sorry for Mr.
Wicks. I really am.”
The lovely Arabella laughed a little
demure laugh.
“Well, so am I. See what he sent me
yesterday. It seems that I am the ‘some
girl or other,’ as Mr. Pilkington says,
who has made Mr. Wicks fatuous. Look
at this. It is really too awful for words!
Read it, gentlemen, I beg of you. Oh,
no—l cannot regard it as confidential.
It is too absurd. Too utterly absurd. I
think that Mr. Wicks should be put
under restraint. I do —really.”
From a workbox on a chair beside her
she took a folded manuscript, tied
daintily with a ribbon of pink silk, and
handed it to Mr. Pilkington.
For ten minutes the friends thoroughly
enjoyed themselves at the expense of
the absent member of their unholy
trinity, pretty Miss Molyne joining in
their mirth with a heartiness that de-
lighted them. When she left the room
for a moment —some household duty,
she explained, that simply had to be
attended to —Mr. Pilkington turned to
Mr. Calder, and remarked triumphantly:
“Well, now, Patwick—l think we may
congwatulate ourthelveth that our little
wuth hath been entirely thucthethful.
Don't you think tho? The power of
widicule —’tith overwhelming. Thimply
unwethithtible. Why, she lookth upon
Panthy, now, ath an abthurdity—a joke!
1 am delighted that we were able to do
him thuch a thervithe. I mutht thay
she’th a charming little cweature. De-
lightful! But we can’t have old
Gwegorwy getting hith nothe bwokc
everwy thecond day. He’ll never know
what we’ve done for him-—of courthe
not. But we have our own good con-
thientheth, my dear Pat wick. We can
thank ourthelveth on hith behalf when-
ever we think of what we’ve done for
him.”
They strolled together to one . of the
big windows in the front of the house,
and were looking out over the fields
towards the thin smoke of distant Sydney
curling above the crest of Brickfield Hill.
Before Mr. Calder could voice, in turn,
his sentiments of satisfaction at the
successful issue of their visit, they were
greeted by a burst of hearty laughter
behind them.
In the doorway stood Lieutenant
Gregory Wicks, R.N., his right shoulder
stooped a little because his strong right
arm encircled the waist of dainty, beauti-
ful and charming Arabella Molyne,
whose golden masses of hair did not quite
reach to his epaulette. She was laughing
merrily; but suddenly her face became
incredibly fierce and wrathful.
“There, Gregory—look at your friends
—your true and faithful companions,
who, you have assured me, would die
for you, if ’twere necessary. Oh,” she
exclaimed venomously, “you wretched
vipers! For two pins I would smack
your faces. Please to be gone while I
am able to restrain myself. You mon-
sters. Oh, kiss me, Gregory. I’m glad
you're not a man of that sort. You
precious angel. I think your poem is
lovely.”
As they confusedly bowed themselves
from the room, Messrs. Calder and
Pilkington had a vision of two dark-blue
manly arms about a pair of white,
muslin-clad dainty shoulders, and of two
not ill-looking faces in closest contact.
As they left the front door to seek the
shelter of Mr. Pilkington’s curricle, a
hearty voice, vibrant with laughter, smote
their ears, as it came echoing from the
open window into the sunny afternoon.
“What dogs you are. Go back to
town and seek another manger!” .
“Well I’ll be damned!” murmured
Mr. Calder.
“The Lord defend uth!” gasped Mr.
Pilkington.
Strange Hills.
Ah, not the hills I love are these that
loom
Obscurely through the sullen summer
night,
Lank alien ridges crawling to the
height
Of gaunt unfriendly summits lost in
gloom;
From these might break some sudden
voice of doom,
To shrink the huddled trees in new
■affright.
The moonlight here is white as death
is white;
The silence, the cold silence of a tomb.
/ know a place where on a level sea
Of moving mist the moon her magic
spills,
Where midnight’s silver silence but sets
free
The laughter of a hundred, hidden rills,
Where drowsy nightwinds dreaming on
dim hills
Would wake a million trees to welcome
me.
tn
N.S.W.
A. T. ALLAN.
Night Wind.
O merchant wind, my very heart you're
crying
hi darkling city corners where you
stray —
/ smell the freshness of the watery way
Where I have heard the plover’s wings
go sighing,
Nightly, towards the hills. I smell the
dying
Small scents of summer grass and cool-
ing day . . .
O merchant wind, my very heart you’re
crying
hi darkling city corners where you
stray.
/ know the friendly owls wake, and go
flying
Prom night-black elm to poplar, far
away
Where shadows pool our foot-known
paths; and grey
The misty waters that / love are lying . . .
O merchant wind, my very heart you’re
crying
In darkling city corners where you
stray.
TASMANIA.
H. M. BETHUNE.
Old Fences.
Now is the time that old black fences
take
A brief and borrowed beauty for their
own,
When straggling trees behind mean
houses break
In pearly buds, and pinkish buds wide-
blown !
Now deep in dark and wagon-rutted
lanes,
In narrow yards where rotten palings
lean,
In grassy corners where the scorched
remains
Of ruined chimneys lie among the
green,
Old trees forgotten, all untended, come
Into their transient beauty, white and
proud,
A nd the soft swathes of scented pear and
plum
Hang o’er the peeling posts like
tethered cloud.
Here murmur bees—here blows the
wanton wind,
Piping awake the trees that lie in
trance,
Till every fence would seem to move
behind
The mazes of a pet ailed shadow-dance.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Alone.
Silence. The thronging voices gone.
And now
The cedars, far from Lebanon, make
moan ;
The wind but holds its breath, and my
heart sings
The song it sings to me alone.
A million beetles creeping in the earth,
The flutter of a hundred hidden wings,
Cicadas trilling in a mound of yellowed
grass,
And the dear, loved noise of little
things.
S.A.
I. M. GOUGH.


TO ALL BUYERS OF RADIO
Here Is Irrefutable Proof of What Is
THE WORLD’S BEST RADIO SET
: h b
0®
n
EH
■
■
■
m
■
m
wm
m
:: .
:
■
HN
Says Mr. J. R. Bain, of 97 Princess Street, Marton, N.Z.:
Dear Sirs,
, have just been advised that l won the DX Cup with a /'<>«?“ <«» Second placejoes
Radio a KrS Sromberlcorison S Mima*; Cromwell, Courier, Courtenay, Scott, Midwest and hosts of others.
You will see by 'the above diat ULTIMATE can hold their own against them all. This competition has created great interest
over here, and 1 only hope ULTIMATE sales keep increasing. I hope this information is of as much interest to you as to
myself. Kindest regards. Sincerely yours, n „ .
16th July, 1936. (Signed) J. R. ?ain.
AND THE SET? —a six-valve receiver
Some of the Famous Models Comprise:
5-valve Treasure Chest, £lB/10/; 6-valve Broadcast, £2B/10/-; 6-valve All-
Wave, £36/10/-; 7-valve All-Wave Battery Operated, £45/12/-.
11-valve de luxe Twin Chassis: Radio £B2/10/-.
Radio Gramophone Combination £95/10/-.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & COMPANY LIMITED
ELECTRICAL AND INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS, 267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Distributors: Rola Speakers. Mullard Valves. Staiger Gramophone Pick-ups.
QUEENSLAND INQUIRIES DIRECT TO NATIONAL RADIO, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
mm
mm
i m
A
CAREER
fOR
YOU
we*auY
/mwM
J SQMRE
•SYOHIY J
■I : ,
A MIXED GRILL.
Queensland’s gross public debt in-
creased by just on £4,000,000 to
£122,000,000 during 1935-36. Interest at
£5,037,500 eats up all State tax-revenue
and £745,500 extra.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Sydney is to see yet
another golf club. A big slice of land
has been secured out Maroubra way, and
intending members are to be asked to
take up debentures. Golf clubs are
getting as thick as raisins in duff in that
quarter of the county of Cumberland.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Brisbane has staged a
novel golf tourney in which a player
was allowed to replay a stroke on pay-
ment of a bob, much as one could “star
a life” in old-fashioned billiards pool.
It was a handicap affair, and the scratch
player, Walker, returned a card of 71
without parting up a bob. The winner,
Winterflood, spent 13s. on second tries,
but the spendthrift of the show was
Hope, who did in 245. He could only tie
for third place.
* * * *
Mrs. Tommy O’Dea was the only
woman passenger on the day’s hop from
Queensland to New Guinea in the Lock-
heed Electra. Responsibilities of the
trip were shared by Tommy O’Dea and
Eric Chayicr ; also aboard was Captain
Fred Haig, an aviation expert. Mrs. O’Dea
is very popular in New Guinea, where
hers is the only house on the hill at
Salamaua. Christian name of Jane suits
her beautifully; she’s very friendly, a
good “mixer” and as devoid of man-
nerisms as is her coiffure, dark hair
drawn straight back from her forehead.
Mrs. O’Dea went to Adelaide speci-
ally to see Mrs. Cecil Levien break a
bottle of champagne over the ’plane,
christening it the Cecil Levien after the
Digger whose name will never be for-
gotten so long as English is spoken in
New Guinea.
* * * *
With “Joanna” almost ready to step
on stage at Melbourne King’s, P. Finkcl-
stein has been pondering on a suitable
publicity stunt. For Mrs. Harold Clapp’s
“Love Step,” produced five years ago,
Wirth’s Circus leant a hand with an
animal procession. In Swanston-street,
Alice the elephant got tired and leant
against the Cathedral Hotel, part of which
collapsed. Alice moved to the tramline,
where ennui again overcame her, with
the result that suburban trams were
held up for 20 minutes. “Joanna,”
a two-acter, has the first of its
three scenes placed in a parlor of the
Waterfront Inn in New Orleans; the
second, two years later, is set in the ward-
robe mistress’s room at the Melody
Theatre, New York. The third is again
in New Orleans, at the time of Mardi
Gras.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken rc
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.L.: Your handwriting is as puzzling as
your verse is disorderly and your incessant
repetition monotonous... .E.W.: Obviously
there is a rough, tough element on both sides
in Spain, but your rhymes are in the same
category J.R.H.: If you talked to her in
that strain we can’t blame the girl for turning
you down J.O’D.: Honestly, we can’t make
sense of it. The words are English but the
sentences need elucidation... .M.L.L.: Sorry,
but it’s absolutely out of our line R.D.:
There’s little music in your catalogue of our
fauna and flora M.S.B. : Villon would have
made something better of it than that... .W.J.:
Too long-drawn-out for the epigram you seem
to have aimed at....A.5.: Too prosaic in
phrasing for a satire... .A.J.W.: Laborious;
likewise stodgy, like cold Yorkshire pudding.
Bellerive: Sound philosophy, with a final
proposition that admits of no dispute:
SPARKS OF 1,0010.
Far better to lose
The glory of Fame
Than lose the respect
Of an honest name.
Time ebbs and hows
bike the waves ot ! the sea ;
There’s no escape from
What is to be.
N.J.L.: More suitable for a daily....
A.Q.: Looked like a fair psychological study
until it sank to bathos,.. .P.A.D.: Below your
usual C.J.R.: Didn’t miss by much, but
salted-mine theme is becoming a drug
R.R.: Chuckles assay too light A.D.: Yet
another fierce, implacable hatred born of one
swift look! J.C.: Too gloomy... .D.W.:
Rather too slender■... .R.8.Q.: Howling cats
have been belted off the fence so 01ten....
C.L.R.: You haven’t made it clear what the send-
otf is about... .R.C.: “Qhoom” seaman boring.
.... W.E.G.: Exiled noblemen who dream of
the old ancestral halls in Berks or Hants while
boiling the billy are a neck-pain... .C.H.V.:
“Tide” never rose above low-water mark....
5.8.: After reading “Vengeance” we bought a
patent teeth-gnasher and strangled the office
cat.... 8.5. W.: Dialogue runs as smoothly as a
concrete-mixer being fed with filings... .N.W. :
A slightly stronger plot would have carried
it through... .G.M.8.: Even as burlesque, “Old
Army” was a bit overdone... .G.H.W.: Sketch
doesn’t quite make it....D.P.: Not bad, but
the subject shoulders it 0ut....E.T.: Com-
mendable style, but you haven't landed on to
anything meaty enough.... Sti: That gobbler
of yours has an insatiable appetite for ink and
paper; other unimpressive... .A.8.J.: Acid test
of logic makes that brass instead of g01d....
J.C.: Both miss, but not by so wide a margin.
L.D.McK.: Plot doesn't do the writing
justice C.S.: Glimpses of good humor, but
vehicle wobbles... .R.W.: Slapstick on the cow
bought at auction falls flat Reclus: Dia-
logue between two half-baked near-society
youths hopeless... .S.W.: “Double Dealers
shuffle around too much... JJ. (Eng.): Not
interested in stuff already published.... H.F.:
Not up to Hogan’s best... .H.E.8.: Still misses.
A.H.N.: The Duke’s still on the road
Z.V.W.: Track too worn 8.W.: Thin
H.A.L.: Schoolboyish S.H.C.: Not enough
meat A.M.M.: The fire went out
G.CR.: Execution; medical monsters; disem-
bodied spirits entering into possession of
patients in lunatic asylum. No !.... .R.R.: Nor
pythons! C.C.L.: Cheers for the school-
master, but that is all Anonymous: “Shark.”
with neither name nor address, wallows through
rough water... .E.J.G.: Still think it a remote
possibility.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.S.D.: Under-nourished drawing collapsed
before reaching the art-editor’s desk... .F.J.M.:
“Quite without merit” is right J.H.C.:
Lout riding overgrown kangaroo-dog cold-
shouldered... .E.D.: Another artist beat you
to the post G.R.: Seasick passenger went
overboard L.W.: In consideration of your
youth you are let off with a caution....
R.C.: Looks like a sketch of a tangled fishing
line P.R.W.: Not enough space to specify
what is wrong with your drawing B.B.: The
office bloodhound is still searching for the
point of the gag....K.N.: Picture of angular
giantess and her gnomelike infant gave Father
of Ten a nightmare S.P.: Back to your les-
sons N.C.8.: You’re about as cheerful as
an undertaker who has had his Sunday beer
stolen H.D.: It is courting danger to throw
yourself on our mercy with such efforts
IJ.: Returned for repairs and a new gag
W.T.: That idea has been used repeatedly
P.C.D.: Cannot decide whether the gent, is
holding a concertina or a baby... .G.S.: Too
many marks <?n the sketch of the infuriated
horticulturist... .W. 8.: Good to know you
won’t try a second time V.R.E.: Why don’t
you submit your drawings in a civilised
fashion? As forwarded they automatically
rejected themselves A.R.: Tackle one topic
at a time. Your attempt to deal with the de-
fence question, freetrade, the birth-rate and
jaunting politicians in the one cartoon merely
bewildered L.C.: Too dull for words
N.S.: That wheeze is tired and footsore
J. 8.: Some grace in your linework, but figures
are badly posed A.J.W.: Poster-size sketch
of dead whale reverentially buried C.T.:
Gag too slight to carry the drawing.


Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY - -
Guarantees A Perfect
vayage
BSE
ADAMS’ (TA'l TERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Luucb from 1- noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m, (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
easE
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to~Sdl” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to handling MS., wants typing work. —
3064.
Jackeroo’s position vacant. Public-school
education essential. Good exp. available.
Applicants must state age and at what school
educated, and must have some exp. with stock
and horses. —3044.
Clerk (47), Sydney, shipping and customs
exp., wants employment.—3o69.
Young man, Sydney, exp. organising balls,
theatrical entertainment and carnivals, seeks
engagement.—3o7o.
To buy How McDougaU Topped the Score.
—3043.
To buy, new or second-hand, copy of
Wooden and Composite Ships, by Paasch. —
3028.
To buy following volumes or numbers of
The Bulletin: March 26, 1881; July to Dec.,
1884; Jan. to Dec., 1885 ; Jan. to Dec., 1888 ;
Jan. to Dec., 1896; Jan. to Dec., 1897; Jan.
to June, 1899; Jan. to Dec., 1901; Jan. 9,
1913; and June 3, 1926. Volume for 1896 and
succeeding volumes must include the covers.
—3027.
Old scholars of The Bluff (M.L.) public school
arc asked to communicate as soon as possible
with the secretary of the school, D. McKenzie,
72 Marine-parade, Bluff, in view of the celebra-
tion of the school’s 70th anniversary in March
next. —3121.
Particulars of any trail rides (on horseback)
which a girl could join leaving Melbourne
during December or January.—3o6s.
Words of “The Border Ballad,” sung by
Peter Dawson.' —3029.
Information Sought.
A few details concerning the Goble-Mclntyre
round-Australia flight of 1924?—3071.
In April-May, 1924, Wing-Commander Goble
and Flying-Officer Mclntyre in a three-year-old
Airey seaplane flew round the whole of the
Australian coast, covering 8568 miles in 44
days (90 flying hours). Their object was to
make a rapid survey of the coast in order to
select the best sites for coast-defence air-
stations : they had no prepared aerodromes or
repair bases, and no information about local
conditions, meteorological or other, except what
they could pick up on the way. It was one of
the finest flights in the history of aviation, and
the Royal Aero Club in 1925 awarded to its
achievers the Britannia challenge trophy for the
best flight of 1924.
* * * *
A few statistics concerning civil aviation in
Great Britain 3—3091.
In 1934 (latest year for which figures are
available) there were 19 regular air services
(excluding those of Imperial Airways, Ltd.)
operated within the United Kingdom or be-
tween the United Kingdom and the Continent,
with a total route mileage of 5953 miles. The
number of aircraft miles flown was 2,321,200,
and 81,186 passengers, with a cargo of 538
tons, were carried. In 1934 the number of air-
craft miles flown on the regular services
operated by United Kingdom cos. (including
internal services, services to the Continent and
all services on the London-Singapore and
London-South Africa routes) was 4,644,000
(2,638,000 miles in 1933); actual number of
passengers carried, 135,100 (79,100 in 1933);
weight of cargo (including cos.’ stores), 1422
tons (914 tons in 1933). British aircraft, in
1934, made 6820 flights between the United
Kingdom and the Continent, carrying 58,125
passengers over each stage (about 200 miles).
* * * *
(1) Native name for black bream ? (2) Tackle
used and bait ? (3) Best places round Sydney
for this fish ? (4) Best time for fishing, day or
night ? —2885.
(1) Not known. (2) Line of No. 2 or No. 3
gut, with a 1-0 or 2-0 hook and a small shot
about an inch above the hook and of just
sufficient weight to take the line to the bottom
and keep it there. Whole, unsealed prawns are
probably best. (3) Practically anywhere east
of Point Piper, where the water is not too deep
and the run of tide not too great. (4) Night
fishing is usually considered best.
Wliat percentage of world production of
motor-cars and motor-lorries is manufactured
in the following countries: U.S.A., U.K., Ger-
many, France, Canada, Italy and Russia ?
3072.
Figures are for 1935. U.S.A. 76.6 p.c., U.K.
7.8 p.c., Germany 4.7 p.c., France 3.3 p.c.,
Canada 3.2 p.c. In the case of Italy and Russia
no figures are available for 1935. In 1934
Italy’s share was 1.2 p.c. and Russia’s 1.9 p.c.
* * * *
(1) Is the Prime Minister of England paid
a salary as such? (2) When was the position
first constitutionally recognised and special
precedence accorded to the holder? —3078.
(1) No salary is attached to the office of
Prime Minister as such, and it is usually held
in conjunction with some other high office of
State, generally that of First Lord of the Trea-
sury. (2) In 1905.
* * * :?
Is it a fact that in Vic. the hotels are per-
mitted to sell liquor on Christmas Day? —27B6.
Yes. The only days on which the sale of
liquor is prohibited are Sundays, Anzac Day
and Good Friday.
Words of “The Selkirk Grace,” written by
Robert Burns, and was he, or an earlier writer,
the actual author ? —3098.
The words are as follows:
Some liae meat and canna eat,
And some wad eat that want it;
But we hae meat, and we can eat
And sae the Lord be thankit.
It is a version of an older anonymous rhyme.
There is a rhyme, dated about 1650, which runs
thus :
Some have meat but cannot eat;
S'ome could eat but have no meat;
We have meat and can all eat; *
Blest, therefore, be God for our meat.
* * * *
Is there any difference between 100 p.c. profit
and a profit of 100 p.c.? —2894.
The sentence “It is 100 p.c. profit” means
that total receipts are profit, which implies
that no expenditure at all has been incurred.
The statements “I made 100 p.c. profit” and
“I made a profit of 100 p.c.” mean that profits
were equal to the cost price of an Article sold.
# * * #
A few biographical details concerning Edgar
Wallace ?— 2504.
Born 1875, he was educated at a London
board school; served six years as a private
soldier, Royal West Kent Regiment and
R.A.M.C.; was Reuter’s war, correspondent
during the South African War; also he repre-
sented tire “Daily News,” 1900, and the “Daily
Mail,” 1901-02, and was editorial founder
of the “Rand Daily Mail,” Johannesburg.
In 1895 he published a book, Songs, but first
achieved popularity with the'publication of his
novel, The Four Just Men. For 30 years he
continued to produce prolifically, the list of
his usually highly successful novels and plays
numbering about 60. He died February 10,
1932, at Beverly Hills, California, whither he had
gone to write motion-picture scenarios. Twice
married, first, in 1900, to Ivy M. Caldecott, and
again, in 1921, to Ethel M. King, he left two
sons and two daughters.
* * * *
What was the Cato-street conspiracy ? —3OBO.
A gang of desperate men, headed by Arthur
Thistlewood, assembled in Cato-street, Edge-
ware-road, London, and proposed the assas-
sination of the Ministers of the Crown at a
Cabinet dinner. They were betrayed and
arrested on February 23, 1820, and Thistlc-
wqpd, Brunt, Davidson, Ings and Tidd were
executed as traitors on May 1 of the same
year.
(1) Length of France’s coastline and land
frontier ? (2) Where are its land and coastal
forts situated ? —3089.
(1) France has a coastline of 1760 miles,
1304 on the Atlantic and 456 on the Mediter-
ranean. Its land frontier extends over 1665
miles, of which 1246 miles are along the Bel-
gian, German, Swiss and Italian frontiers and
419 along the Spanish frontier. (2) Behind the
trench system of defence, based on the ex-
periences of the Great War, along her eastern
frontier between the Rhine and Luxembourg
and on the Italian frontier are the former
German fortresses of Strassburg, Metz and
Thionville and the first-class fortresses of
Verdun, Toul, Epinal and Belfort. On the
coast Toulon, Rochefort, Lorient, Brest and
Cherbourg are naval harbors surrounded by
forts.
* * *' *
When were the following N.S.W. railway lines
opened: (1) Sydney-Hurstville, (2) Sydenham -
Belmore, (3) Belmore-Bankstown and (4)
Hornsby-St. Leonard’s ?—3116.
(1) October 15, 1884. (2) February 1, 1895.
(3) April 14, 1909. (4) January 1, 1890.
**„ * *
(1) What constitutes an act in a play? (2)
Name and address of original producer of
“Journey’s End” in (a) England and (b)
America ? —2630.
(1) An act is a division of a play. St. John
Ervine, in How to Write a Play, says: “The
dividing of plays into acts is not an arbitrary
device or convention. It is a custom, observed
because experience has shown that an audience
requires an interval of mental relaxation and
physical rest during the progress of a full-
length play.” (2) (a) and (b) James Whale,
Arts Club, 40 Dover-road, London, W.l.
* * * *
Brief outline of the career of General
Smuts ? —3llB.
Born 1870. During the Boer War he com-
manded the Boer forces in Cape Colony.
Took prominent part in promoting the union
of the South African colonies. During the
Great War commanded in East Africa. Visit-
ing London, March, 1917, he was given a seat
in the War Cabinet. Drew up the memoran-
dum whch became in substance the Covenant
of the League of Nations. Was Prime Minis-
ter of the Union of South Africa, 1919-24;
Rhodes Memorial Lecturer at Oxford, 1929-
30; and president of the British Association,
1931.
* * * *
How is Victoria’s system of payment of taxes
by instalment worked? —3l3o.
By deductions from wages of employees on
a scale ranging from Id. in the £ on salaries of
from 10s. to £1 per week up to Is. per £1 on
salaries over £l2. When the employer makes
the deductions he hands the employee special
tax-instalment stamps representing that value.
The employee keeps these stamps, and when he
receives his assessment notice —issued in the
usual way—he produces them, and if stamp
value exceeds taxes an immediate cash refund
is made; otherwise the difference has to be
paid in cash. Anyone may participate by
buying tax-instalment stamps, which will be
treated as cash when taxes fall due.
* * * *
What does it cost approximately to graduate
in the following faculties at the University of
Sydney: (1) Arts, (2) economics, (3) law’, (4)
medicine, (5) dentistry, (6) science, (7) civil
engineering, (8) agriculture, (9) veterinary
science and HO) architecture? —3139.
(1) £Bl. (2) £lO2. 13) £lO3. (4) £259 6s.
(5) £223. (6) Pass degree, £105; honors degree,
£l2O 15s. (7) £167. (8) £124. (9) £l2O. (10)
£195.
% # % #
Number killed and injured in Victoria in
1935 in traffic accidents in which bicycles,
motor-buses, motor-cars, motor-cycles, trains
and trams were involved. Give figures accord-
ing to each vehicle. —3111.
Bicycle, 1 killed, 269 injured; motor-bus, 1
killed, 32 injured; motor-car, 299 killed, 5850
injured; motor-cycle, 19 killed, 367 injured;
train, 23 killed, 15 injured; tram, 11 killed,
147 injured.
* * * *
(1) Particulars regarding the Camerons of
Erracht ? (2) Are they connected with the
Camerons of Lochiel? (3) What is their dis-
tinguishing tartan ? —2608.
(1) Progenitor of this branch of the clan
was Ewen, a descendant of Donald Du; second
laird, Donald, joined Prince Charles under
Lochiel, and was second in command of the
Camerons at the muster at Glenfinnan. After
Culloden Donald was a homeless mountain
wanderer for three years. Of his four chil-
dren the eldest became Sir Alan Cameron; his
youngest daughter’s son commanded the 79th
(Cameron Highlanders) at Waterloo. (2)
Lochiel Camerons belong to Strone branch,
also descended from Donald Du. Senior in
clan ranking to Erracht group, their identity
as a family going back farther. The clan
slogan (Gaelic) is “Sons of the hounds come
here to get flesh,” their badge the crowberry
or the oak. The seat has always been in
Lochaber. (3) So-called Erracht tartan is a
blend of the Cameron and Clan Donald tartan,
and originated when Alan Cameron of Erracht
raised the 79th Regiment, composed of both
clans. Mother of Alan Cameron, herself a Mac-
donell of Keppoch, designed a tartan in which
the red forming a conspicuous part of both sets
was minimised to harmonise with the scarlet
tunics. This was officially adopted, the color-
ings being blue, yellow, red, green and black.
* * * *
Is Sir Charles Bonham Carter, Governor of
Malta, identical with Captain Bonham Carter
of H.M.S. Sussex ? If not, please give details
of careers of both men, together with family
associations. —2943.
They are members of different branches of
the same family. Lt.-Gen. Sir Charles Bonham
Carter, K.C.8., D. 5.0., at present Governor
of Malta, was bom Feb. 25, 1876, the ninth
son of Henry Bonham Carter; was educated at
Clifton College and Royal Military College,
Sandhurst; served in South African War
(awarded the Queen’s medal with four clasps)
and World War (D. 5.0., C.M.G. and several
foreign decorations); was Director of Staff
Duties, War Office, 1927-31; commanded the
Fourth Division, 1931-33; and was made Lt -
General in 1933, in which year he became
Director-General of the Territorial Army. A
brother, Sir Maurice Bonham Carter, is mar-
ried to Lady Hejen Violet Asquith, eldest
daughter of the late Lord Asquith. Captain
Stuart Sumner Bonham Carter, C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R.N., was born 1889, the younger son of the
late Lothian George Bonham Carter, of Buri-
ton House, Petersfield, Hants. He served in
the World War, in which he received the
D.S.O. and the Legion of Honor, as well as
being mentioned in dispatches; was Assistant-
Director of Naval Equipment, 1932-34, and has
been in command of H.M.S. Sussex, in which
vessel H.R.H. the Duke of Gloucester visited
Australia, since 1934.
* * * $
(1) Where can 1 obtain a booklet giving the
movements of the maypole dance ? (2) Also
a kindergarten song, “Storyland” ? —3oio.
(1) The Maypole Dance, by A. L. Cowley
(Curwen Edition, No. 1155), gives the move-
ments of the dance in conjunction with the
words and music; price 35., at Nicholson’s,
George-street, Sydney. Cecil Sharpe’s Folk
Dances, price 65., from Paling’s, George-street,
Sydney, also gives the information. (2) There
does not appear to be any kindergarten song
of that name in print, but one called Story-
book Ball, published by Albert and Son, is
obtainable.
* * * *
Who were, or are, the Premonslratensians ?
—3136.
An order founded by St. Norbert about 1120,
which, receives its name from Premontre, in the
diocese of Laon (France), where the first
monastery was founded. The order spread
rapidly in Europe, and for several centuries was
a serious rival to the Cistercian order. At the
Reformation there were in England 35 houses
of the order, two of them nunneries; there
is now only one. There is a large Premon-
stratensian Abbey in Belgium.
* * * *
By whom and where are the following
journals published: (1) “Quarterly Journal of
Economics,” (2) “American Economic Review,’
(3) “Journal of the Institute of Bankers,” (4)
“Economic Journal,” (5) “Economic Bulletin”
and (6) “American Banker” ? —3090.
(1) The Harvard University Press, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, U.S.A. (2) The American Eco-
nomic Association of North-western Uni.,
Evanstown, Illinois, U.S.A.; publication offices,
450 Ahnaip-street, Menasha, Wisconsin,
U.S.A. (3) Blades, East and Blades, Ltd., 17
Abchurch-lane, London, E.C.4. (4) and (5)
The Royal Economic Society publishes the
“Economic Journal” and “Economic Bulletin”
at 9 Adelphi-terrace, Strand, London, W.C.2.
(6) The American Banker, Inc., 32 Stone-street,
New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
* * * *
Treatment for acute frontal sinusitis? The
pain is pretty severe during an attack. —2872.
There is no specific remedy. Apart from
treatment of the cause with inhalations, sprays,
etc., little more than operation for drainage
of the sinus can be advised. Analgesics,
aspirin and the like give temporary relief.
Brief Answers.
F.W.E.: Write Secretary, Commonwealth
Forestry Bureau, Canberra, F.C.T G.G.:
Write Mount Morgan Developments, Ltd., 117
Pitt-street, Sydney F.W.H.: Mealy bugs
spread rapidly, and should be destroyed
immediately they are seen. On line ferns they
can be safely eradicated with the touch of
a camel-hair brush dipped in methylated spirit.
Dracasnas and similar foliage plants should
be dipped or sponged in tobacco water and
soft-soap emulsion, which should be washed off
afterwards by syringing. If the roots of the
plants become infested, they should be dipped
in tobacco water for half an hour... .C.W.:
William Naughton at his death owned Rivers-
leigh (579 sq. miles), Wangunda (225 sq. miles)
and Saxby Downs (329 sq. miles) —all in
Q’land. He once held Woolerina and Mt.
Norman, but transferred his holdings in them.
J.R.F.: (1) Queensland State Harbors and
Marine Department publishes an annual
pamphlet (25.), “Tide Tables for Brisbane and
Moreton Bay and References to Other Queens-
land Ports.” It will be seen from the table
that tides, height and incidence depend on
the position of the moon, which has a regular
course and influence. Tides, except for some
seasonal divergence as to height, follow their
regular ebb and flow, progressing from hour
to hour, day to day, etc. (2) One section of
the State could experience drought and an-
other heavy rain, and the task of establishing
rain or drought cycles is of great magnitude,
still inconclusive, and up to the present with-
out any great practical value in long-range
forecasting... .G.S.: No branch in Australia.
Write “Australian Geographer,” Science House,
Gloucester-street, Sydney F. 8.: Write Aus-
tralian Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 43 Mar-
garet-street, Sydney L.H.M.: Wash the
horns well, dry and rub lightly with rather
coarse glasspaper to take off the first rough-
ness. Then with the finest emery powder and
raw linseed oil rub and polish until you get
the surface you require. It is all a matter of
elbow-grease. Finish with a silk c10th....
W.E.C.H.: Write Greater Union Theatres,
State Shopping Block, Market-street, Sydney.
. ...P.R.S.: Broken Hill Pty., Newcastle,
N.S.W., Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd., Port
Kembla, N.S.W., and Frank Hambridge, 22
Bridge-street, Sydney J.A.R.: Write Arthur
Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney....
J.H.: Those words which are italicised in
the Scriptures are not found in the original,
but were added by the translators in order to
clarify certain ambiguities in the text. Thus
they not only do not call for special emphasis,
but could be eliminated without greatly damag-
ing the sense M.V.S.: Depends on what
rights you assigned to the newspapers. Always
best to obtain permission before submitting
elsewhere... .F.R.: By canvassing firms that
employ draughtsmen and by advertising. Most
draughtsmen begin as cadets and are trained, in
addition to outside study, by the firms that
employ them. It would be difficult for a person
of your age who has had no practical experi-
ence to secure a job H.M.: Dry Ice
(Q’land), Ltd., Montague-road, South Brisbane;
Mount Frome Lime, Ltd., Burrows-road, St.
Peters, Sydney; Carba Dry Ice, Ltd., Spencer-
street, Melbourne... .C.F.R.: The co. suggests
that you write for the particulars to the Chicago
Bridge and Iron Works of America, Chicago,
111., U.S.A R.P.L.: Atlas Imperial Oil
Engine Co., McMahon’s Point, Sydney, is the
agent and will supply spare parts. When order-
ing, forward complete specifications and dimen-
sions of parts required. With a small item,
forward the part itself F. 8.: (1) A. Miles
and Co., Box 1081, G.P.0., Brisbane: H.
Pickering and Co., 61 Market-street, Sydney;
T. Gaunt and Co., 337 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l. (2) It was tried some years ago
in Melbourne, but did not prove a success....
R.G.W.: Death adder is correct. From its
disinclination to move when approached it
is sometimes called “deaf adder” T.R.:
George Gershwin’s address is 33 Riverside-drive,
New York City, N.Y., U.S.A H.G.M.:
In four ball best ball v. par matches, the scores
of each individual player must be shown on the
card so that it can be determined if the holes
are won, halved or lost according to the respec-
tive handicaps 8.M.: “Dranex,” made by
Cudahy and Co., Cudahy House, Elger-street,
Glebe, N.S.W., 9d. per Boz. tin; “Cleerit,”
made by Matthews, Thompson and Co., Ltd.,
74-84 King-street, Newtown, N.S.W., Is. 6d.
per 12oz. tin. A pail of hot soda water is also
beneficial for keeping the drains clear, because
the soda acts at once upon any grease which
may cling to the interior of the pipes
P.M.: Archbishop Kelly was born at Water-
ford, Ireland, on February 13, 1850. He suc-
ceeded to the see of Sydney on August 16,
1911.. . .W.C.: Nauru, discovered by Captain
Fearn in 1798, was annexed by Germany in
1888. Prior to 1914, when it was occupied by
a detachment from the Australian Expedition
at Rabaul, it was part of the Protectorate of
German New Guinea M.M.W.: Peter Hope-
good’s Austral Pan and Other Verses was pub-
lished by the Imperial Printing Co., Perth, in
1933; Shaw Neilson’s Collected Poems, by
Lothian, Melbourne, in 1934 G.H.: See
Armature Winding, by Morton and Dunlop, and
Dynamo Design and Construction, by A. H.
Avery... .G.A.E.: No reliable information
available D.N.S.: There is no firm holding
such an agency. You might try canvassing
firms established there or advertise in the local
papers E.A.: Write Secretary, Air Board,
Defence Dept., Melbourne, for R.A.A.F. Pub-
lication No. 14, “Citizen Air Force”
H.L.M.: “John O’Brien” is the nom-de-pluine
of Rev. P. Hartigan, parish priest at Narran-
dera (N.S.W.). Around the Boree Log and
Other Verses was published in 1921... .P.D.:
The Good Soldier Schweik was written by
Jaroslav Hasek and was translated into English
by Paul Selver J.M.: Except in certain
special trades, registration as a factory in Vic-
toria need not be made unless there are four
or more persons engaged in preparing or
manufacturing articles or power in excess of
is used. As to whether the work
may be done in a residential area is a matter
for the local municipal authorities (Many
others mailed.)


nr
lo - day s
aid
to spnt'hlint/
HEALTH t and FITNESS
‘Pep’ in a Few Minutes
N
sm
There's nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
4 It has
done me
a lot of
good’
: «?
K
mm
m
E
m
mi
X
ONE
User says:
“I And great
relief in Cream
1 of Yeast; it has
{ lone me good
in several
ways. Had
been in •—— Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was ir. a very bad w-ay. Before finishing
my first bottle, of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have, spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
-A.E., Young, N.S.W.
m
tm
J :
m,; '*
11
GAIN
NEW *PEP ’
TO-DAY-
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how. they
gained Slbs. to 15lbs. in'2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply talcing Cream of Yeast.
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
| est tonic pick-
fme-up known.”
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from tlie nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in Jf minutes. Banishes
Depression, Loio Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh, attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and) Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
Athletes
train on
Cream of Yeast .
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
During October and part of November
there will be a couple of dozen Sydney-
trained horses in Melbourne, which has
four amateur racing clubs each distri-
buting very substantial prizes. Because
Sydney has only one club of which this
can be said, there will be at most three
Melbourne-trained horses at Randwick
during the spring meeting beginning on
Saturday. It is unfortunate for the club,
and if the A.J.C. committee doesn't learn
from this lesson the necessity of dump-
ing its placid conservatism and going in
for a progressive policy such as has freed
the sport in Melbourne from the pro-
prietary blight, N.S.W. lovers of racing
for racing’s sake will despair of it.
N. S. Wales still leads in horsebreeding.
If N.S.W. owners have nothing better
to look forward to than the poor prizes
offered at most Saturday meetings in
Sydney on courses other than Randwick
and Warwick Farm and nearly ail Wed-
nesday meetings, the supremacy in that
field will pass to Victoria, too.
There is not one Victorian colt in the
Derby. Rarely has that happened—in
this century, at all events. Since the war
colts from Melbourne have figured in
such thrilling races as were provided by
Heroic, Nigger Minstrel and Spearfelt in
1924, Manfred and the field to which he
gave half a furlong start in 1925, Tri-
valve and Winalot in 1927. Now the
position has been reached where Vic-
torian owners of Derby possibilities have
to consider whether it is worth while
sending their horses to Sydney for one
race really worth the winning when
there are at least a dozen in Melbourne
during the same period. At all events,
the question as to which is the best
1936-37 three-year-old will be decided in
Melbourne.
For the A.J.C. Derby Gold Rod is
sure to be a warm favorite, barring acci-
dents. He is a brilliant galloper, but
does not quite give the impression of
being a stayer. Of course, the race has
been won by colts that were not really
first-class at a mile and a half, and two
non-stayers in Soorak and Mollison were
narrowly beaten in their respective
years ; but a good staying three-year-old
has an advantage over the more brilliant
customer who commences to labor at
the beginning of the final furlong.
Shakespeare looks the part of the good
staying three-year-old, and he has shown
gameness in his races. Ridden more
patiently, Talking may do better than at
Rosehill, but if Gold Rod races with
him, as is possible, each may beat the
other. Mala and Custos have good
credentials, and Maoriland will not bo
disgraced by either.
Two of the Victorian horses, Gay
Lover (Bst. 21b.) and Panax (7st. 111 b.),
are in the Epsom, and are among the
highly-fancied candidates. But neither
is as well handicapped as The Marne
(Bst. 21b.), who would certainly have
101 b. or 111 b. more for his successes in
the Campbelltown and Tramway Handi-
caps if the handicapper could have done
his job over again. A five-year-old at
the top of his form, The Marne makes
a decided appeal. He has never won a
mile race, but if he gets to the front he
may break up his field as did Autopay
in 1931. Old Dermid, second two years
ago with Bst. 81b., has a chance with
Bst. Capris (7st. 121 b.) has won at
Randwick in good company over the
distance, and Brittle Prattle (7st. 131 b.)
and Silver Standard (7st. 71b.) are good
young horses.
But for meeting with an accident be-
fore the race, Sporting Blood might have
won the last Metropolitan with Bst. 91b.
Now at five years he has only 41b. more.
He has not been asked to do so much
this year, and he seems to be thriving
on this regimen. Oro (9sf. 11b.) and
High Cross (Bst. 21b.) battled out the
finish in the last Metrop.; Oro, who got
the race on a protest, is up 61b., and
High Cross up 81b. Oro was labelled
an unlikely starter on Monday, but High
Cross may have to be considered again.
Soft Step and Spear Prince have
Bst. 51b. In the Queensland Cup Soft
Step (9st.) gave Spear Prince 261 b. and
a beating in Australian-record time for
two miles—3min. 214 sec. If he is back
to that form again, he will make things
very interesting for the others. And
Loud Applause’s Hawkesbury success
has brought that interesting four-year-
old into the picture. He has 7st. 131 b.
With 91b. less he was a close fourth in
the Sydney Cup.
Fair Diana, 7st. 61b., has earned re-
spect for her performances this last year,
and Young Crusader (6st.
91b.) has won over the
distance with a stone more
than he will have to carry,
and that in fast time—
2min. 44-fsec. That is
good enough to win most
Metrops. His recent form
has not been impressive,
but he is a pretty hard
horse to ride.
If Panax misses the
Epsom he should win a
race at the meeting, for he
is a good Randwick horse.
Another animal worth
bearing in mind for a
minor handicap is Cereza.
And a win at the meeting
seems very likely in the
case of Soft Step on Rose-
hill running.
Minor-handicap horses
that looked well at their
last appearance and are
worth considering for
place-tote wagers are
Archmel, Autoland and
Celebrate.
* * *
Hawkesbury gave £l2OO
in prize-money for its
spring meeting, and the
attendance at Clarendon -was the best
since pre-war days. This non-proprietary
course will have to be considered when
new racing days are allotted, and so will
Newcastle. Well-backed horses scored
in six races, but Fakenham and Cognac
came to the rescue of bookmakers in the
last two. Knox rode three winners
(Royal Melody, Heroic Faith and Loud
Applause) in succession.
For Loud Applause, backed from tens
to 7 to 2 in the Spring Handicap, owner
Ned Moss decided on new tactics. Knox
was instructed to take him to the front
and keep him there, and this he did. The
horse had enough in reserve to stall off
Verberry arid Curator in the run home.
Irving was fourth ; then came Sally, High
Cross and Rogerio.
As a result of a good track trial,
Heroic Faith was expected to start
favorite for the Flying Handicap, but
the jockey drew the outside barrier posi-
tion, and the price went to sixes. How-
ever, Heroic Faith commenced so smartly
that he was able to<.secure a handy posi-
tion in the first furlong. The pacemaker,
Gayhawk, looked the winner commenc-
ing the last furlong, but Heroic Faith
battled on well and beat him by half
a head ; Roley’s Choice was third and
Celebrate —getting ready for a welter
mile race —a good fourth. Silver Jubilee
disappointed.
Fakenham, a handsome son of Mag-
pie—Castile, had so little support for the
Three-year-old Handicap that he went
out at 16 to 1. It was a false price, for
the colt worried Tingle Joy and Mark
Antony out of the big end of the prize.
Hamurah was fourth. . Cyrillian, from
Maoriland, is not training on, nor is Don
Cresar as good as his win earlier in the
season suggested.
Eve, a thing of Dick Wootton’s, looked
to have the first division of the Maiden
Handicap won at the Leger, but the
locally-trained Aerial Post (4 to 1), owned
by pastoralist Fred Capel, secured the
verdict in the last stride. Radiogram (7
to 1), carrying A.J.C. committeeman E. J.
Watt’s colors —he is trained by former
jockey Bill McLachlan, junior—seemed
lucky in the second division; Duke
Heroic, slow away, was fast catching
him at the finish. Though he was hav-
ing his first race, Royal Melody, who is
trained at Moorefield by Jack Cush for
Claude Moore, was heavily backed, at
fives, in the third division. He was not
in danger of defeat at any stage.
Hands Up (5 to 1) just got there in
the Park Stakes. This son of Night Raid
is raced by Claude Moore and Jack King.
King also trains Cognac, whose solid
condition enabled him to capture the
Clarendon Handicap at 14 to 1 ; he beat
Golden Chance and Measure in a close
finish. High was one of the failures, and
looked hopeless as an Epsom proposition.
* * * *
Tapestry, chosen by this Page (Im-
biber, the first choice, was scratched),
won the Newcastle Cup (at tens), beat-
ing Irish Morn (8 to 1) and Osculum
(2 to 1) in such capital style as to cause
punters to look up his weight for the
“OLD BILL” KELSO,
Trainer of The Marne, the Epsom favorite. He sold
the chestnut to the present owner, A. B. Abel.
Metrop. He comes down 31b. to 7st. ;
but the distance may bother the chest-
nut. That of the Newcastle race was
one mile 320 yards.
* * * *
Voitre and Valiant Chief figured in a
nasty accident at Moonee Valley. Gal-
loping in the Quality Handicap, Valiant
Chief was forced on the rails and fell.
The chestnut rose and galloped as far
as the judge's box, where he submitted to
capture by trainer F. W. Hoysted ; the
jockey lay where he had been pitched off.
Spectators realised that something was
seriously amiss with Voitre when the
ambulance men refrained from lifting
him on to a stretcher until a club official
arrived. His left leg was broken, and
he was removed to St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital. He will, of course, be out of
action for months.
Valiant Chief developed lameness
after cooling off, and Hoysted hurried
him off by motor float to the Mentone
stables. On Sunday the son of Heroic
was sore on the off side, and the idea
of racing him at Caulfield seems out of
the question. He was an early fancy
for the Caulfield Cup, but had not re-
sponded satisfactorily to stamina tests in
the past few weeks.
The distance of the Quality Handicap
being only six furlongs, Valiant Chief
went out a 7-to-2 favorite; Heros,
Arachne and Beechwood were all there
at 4 to 1. Of these horses Beech-
wood alone came up to expecta-
tions : Arachne hit the rail and
cast a plate, and Heros was interfered
with when Valiant Chief came down.
It cost Beechwood some effort to master
Siren, but once he had done that the rest
was easy, Frank Musgrave’s candidate
going on to win by 14 lengths from a
50-to-l chance, Ogwell, who beat Press
Gang in the Standish Handicap on New
Year’s Day, but had not raced since
June. Siren tired, and finished two
lengths behind Ogwell.
This was the first appearance of P. H.
Osborne’s filly on a Victorian course.
Bailey Payten sent her over from Syd-
ney to Elwood Fisher at Flemington.
Superlative speed was the sole asset of
Valicare, and Payten won a Cantala
Stakes (one mile) with one of her pro-
geny, Care Free. Strange to say, Siren,
despite her undoubted heritage of bril-
liance, has been set for the Melbourne
Cup, instead of a shorter spring handi-
cap. Her sire, Salmagundi, is by Phalaris
from Salamandra, who was sold in Eng-
land as a brood mare for 16,000 guineas.
PH. Osborne was at Moonee Valley
meeting. Besides being the owner of
Siren, he has a half-interest with E. L.
Baillieu in Beechwood. Latter is en-
gaged in the Cantala Stakes (7st. 101b.),
Caulfield Cup (7st. 61b.) and Melbourne
Cup (7st. 41b.). He promises to prove
the main spring hope of Musgrave’s
establishment.
The Tullamarine Handicap, of a mile
and 3-1- furlongs, went to Golden Promise,
whose victory, at 5 to 2, sent the Limond
four-year-old to the absolute top of Caul-
field Cup quotes. Golden Promise (8st.
131b.) carried 71b. more than his Cup
allotment, but what made the shapely
little brown fellow’s success so notable
was that he had to pass 10 horses in
the concluding three furlongs of the race.
He scored, running away, from Desert
Chief and the reviving Art. Holt is
strongly in line for another training tri-
umph in the Caulfield Cup. Marabou
and other horses have gone amiss on
him this spring, but Golden Promise is ,
striking tip-top form.
With ordinary luck Balkan Prince
would have justified favoritism for the
second division of the Ailsa Handicap.
He could not get out of the ruck soon
enough to overtake Diaphane (7 to 2).
Golden Promise and Balkan Prince each
have 8st. 61b. in the Caulfield Cup. They
are equals in age, but Golden Promise
overshadows his stable-mate as a gal-
loper.
Hot Shot (Pantheon — Rosewyn),
runner-up to Palfresco in the 1935 Caul-
field Cup, has been supported for the
Melbourne Cup. He registered an en-
couraging sixth in the Tullamarine Han-
dicap. Oratory, whose mission is the
Caulfield Cup, was backed from 33 to 1
down to 14 to 1 in the Quality Handi-
cap, and acquitted herself fairly well.
Winner of the Great Northern Oaks in
Maoriland, this mare is a useful sort.
Counter Patrol, from Adelaide, lowered
the course record for 1\ furlongs by
l|sec. to lmin. in the first divi-
sion of the Ailsa Handicap. He is in
the Caulfield Cup at 7st. 91b. Counter
Patrol ran second to Donaster in the
S.AJ.C. St. Leger in May, and may have
improved since then. Jf not, Donaster
must be “one out of the box.” Donaster
is mending from a leg injury when rac-
ing at Caulfield recently.
Velair and Sir Muslin staged a thrill-
ing dead-heat in the Pascoe Trial Hurdle,
which probably would have gone to the
favorite, Devonbrook, if he had not
crashed heavily opposite the stand when
racing towards the front. H. E. Con-
nolly collected £700 stake-money over
Etymology’s win in the A. V. Hiskens
Steeple. Twice Etymology nearly sold
out by making contact with fences, but
he made the opposition look cheap so
far as galloping was concerned. Con-
nolly started Boomberry in the Hurdle
Race, but this horse had the misfortune
to be brought down by a fallen rival.
It is a pity Britebeard is not allowed
to start on metropolitan courses, for he
has great pace. But his barrier habits
remain bad, and enforced retirement
from metropolitan courses has not
effected a cure, though now and then
he condescends to behave. He did this
in the Spring Handicap at Geelong on
Wednesday, and made an exhibition of
his opponents. Yultewirra, Aitchengee
and Great Don were among them ; Yul-
tewirra was favorite (Britebeard went
out at 9 to 2) and ran second, three
lengths behind the wayward chestnut son
of Heroic —Greytinge.
(Continued on next page)
Footbrawl
Nearly 51,000 people saw South Mel-
bourne down Melbourne by 13-11 to
8-15 at the M.C.G. South’s kicking was
great; at one stage it put on eight goals
without a behind. Fore and aft, Mel-
bourne lacked the consistency of a pre-
miership side. Next Saturday South will
have another crack at Collingwood in
the V.F.L. “grand” final.
(Continued on next page)
FOR RANDWICK.
Trial Stakes: The Freak; next,
Irish Morn.
Epsom: Capris, 1 ; The Marne,
2 ; Prittle Prattle, 3.
Derby: Shakespeare, 1; Gold
Rod, 2 ; Mala, 3.
Spring Stakes: Sarcherie ; next,
Sporting Blood.
Kensington Handicap: King’s
Head ; next, Autoland.
Metrop.: Young Crusader, 1 ;
Loud Applause, 2 ; Sporting Blood,
3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Melbourne Stakes; Regular
Bachelor ; next, Conandale.
Stand Handicap: Bustard ; next,
The Chanter.


Under the Whip
The Marne became a clear favorite
for the Epsom after the Victoria Park
meeting on Wednesday. Gay Lover and
Panax, who had threatened his position,
both failed in races which were expected
to suit them: Gay Lover was beaten out
of a place in a division of the Flying
Handicap, won all the way by Goorka (5
to 1), who had never previously shown
even second-rate form, and Panax fared
likewise in the Zetland Stakes, a mile
race, run in the course-record time of
lmin. 37sec. That went to Prittle Prattle
(5 to 1), with Silver Standard a good
second, and Cid, winner of the Camellia
Stakes at Rosehill, a rather poor third.
Prittle Prattle and Silver Standard are
four-year-olds, and, though Prittle Prattle
goes up 61b. to 7st. 131 b., he must now
be reckoned an Epsom possibility. He
is trained at Randwick, and likes the
long straight. Witness his performance
at headquarters as a three-year-old—
third in the Sentinel Handicap, won by
Cabalist; second in the Chisholm Han-
dicap to Veilantiff, in the New Year
Gift to Bombus and in the Final Handi-
cap to Silver Standard ; and first in the
“BUNNY” NAGEL,
Pastoralist and sportsman. There are
few better-known figures on Sydney race-
courses.
Bondi Handicap. He had seven Rand-
wick starts. Obviously not a bad horse
to tote.
Capris was second to Goorka (Black
Laughter was third), but her run was
not altogether impressive. Still, she
likes Randwick, having been third
(Chester Handicap), second (Adrian
Knox Stakes) and three times first there
as a three-year-old. She won the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap, beating
High (afterwards second in the Don-
caster to Hall Mark, who interfered with
him) at a difference of 71b. ; the High-
weight Handicap, giving Dromos 21b. and
a beating, and the Gift, giving the same
horse (second again) a stone. That race
and High’s were seven-furlong affairs;
the time in each case was lmin. 24sec.
The other was a mile, run in lmin.
37|sec.
Lancaster King is a useful horse up
to a mile and three furlongs. He is a
a Randwick winner, and in the course
of a week he has won the Menangle
Three Hundred and the Victoria Park
Handicap, one mile 341 yards. For the
latter, he went out at the nice price of
12 to 1 and finished very gamely. Never-
theless, Young Crusader (6 to 1) looked
to have him settled when that rather
awkward customer ran out wide. Young
Crusader is an armful for a light boy.
If the stable could get Knox or Per-
cival to ride him in the Metrop., he
would be half the price at which he has
been quoted lately; even so, as a win-
ner over the distance at Randwick, he
must be regarded with every respect.
* * * *
The lure of a £lOOO six-furlong race
tempted Trihey to saddle up Regular
Bachelor again four days after his suc-
cess at Mentone. The race was the
Superior Handicap at Ascot; the Queens-
land horse was a 5-to-2 favorite, Heros
being at 3* to 1, and the pair took part
in a great finish. Both were beaten by
Hostile (33 to 1), who cut out the “six”
in lmin. llsec., the best time ever made
at Ascot ovef the distance. The outsider
was getting 221 b. from Regular Bachelor,
whom he beat by a neck ; Heros was an-
other head away.
S. A. Government has made known
the betting figures for the past financial
year. The legalisation of betting has
placed a licensed bookmaker’s shop
within reach of everybody, and the public,
of both sexes, has come at it joyfully. The
States’s 600,000 people took 30,000,000
betting-tickets in the year, totalling
£6,000,000. The tote, till recently the
only (legal) gambling medium, handled
only £624,000, and half of that was from
the “trots” at night. The racing clubs
say they cannot carry on without
Government help, and now receive from
it a share of the betting tax, about equal
to their own tote commission. But the
Government still pockets about £170,000,
not reckoning the useful sideline of
entertainments tax on club members’
tickets and public admission money.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
After it had been given out weeks ago
that the money required to bring Ross
to Sydney to box Carroll had been put
up, it was announced last week that this
was not a fact, and that the fight would
be off unless some good kind people
came to light with more. For the next
few days the promoter exuded sobstuff ;
then came a communique to the effect
that all was well again: the Ross party
would be graciously pleased to accept
£1750 immediately, £6OOO on October 1
and “the balance at the ringside.” If
the whole thing was a publicity stunt
it was a misguided one. It must have
set bankers wondering whether a coun-
try which owes £45,259,800 to U.S.A.
creditors, and —with the balance of trade
always heavily against it —has to find
£2,272,100 in annual interest there, can
really afford to transmit' a fortune to
an American pug for giving and taking
a few punches.
* * * *
The managers of Joe Louis have
returned to the policy of picking easy
marks for their black. Last week he
took on one Ettore, an Italian-American,
just on l4lb. lighter, and knocked him
out in five rounds. Ettore has had little
experience, and has been beaten by
Loughran, who was hard put to it in
England to get a decision over the
Maorilander Strickland, a comparative
novice. And Loughran is nearly as old
as George Cook.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. cricket
heads have made the amende honorable
by accepting McCabe’s suggestion that
for the Gregory-Bardsley benefit Rich-
ardson take his place as captain of the
Eleven recently in South Africa. The
action of the selectors in substituting
McCabe for the man who had led the
Australians so ably overseas raised
emphatic protests all over Australia. The
excuse was that they desired McCabe
to gain experience as skipper for the
Sheffields.
“Jolimont”: Melbourne C.C. and the
Melbourne ground trustees have settled
their dispute over ladies’ tickets. When
the club elected 1000 new members the
trustees pointed out that the old issue
of two ladies’ tickets per member was
a bit hot and suggested one only. The
club has been trying for a twelvemonth
to get members to agree to this. Country-
member privileges, which include a
IKE FOULSHAM.
The Trainers' G.O.M. “As I was saying
about Archer”
smaller subscription, will inTuture apply
only to members outside a 40-miles
radius from Melbourne P.O. It was
formerly 20 miles.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victoria is losing two
Sheffield players for the season: Scaife
and Bromley go to India under a three
months’ engagement to the Maharajah of
Patiala. Each “amateur” will receive
£l5O, with all expenses. Scaife, born in
Lancashire, has made over 2000 runs in
60 Sheffield innings, and is a magnificent
JOHN SPENCER BRUNTON.
He gets heaps of enjoyment oat of the
turf, and generally has a good horse
racing in his colors — white, red sleeves
and cap.
field. Bromley was brought from
Westralia and was a member of the last
Australian XI. He also saves many runs
as a fieldsman.
Footbrawl
“Tenakoe”: Playing a bitzer team ren-
dered necessary by a heavy casualty list
the Australian Rugby side in M.L. beat
a Maori side at Palmerston North, 31-6,
in the closing match of the tour. The
cabled report unkindly says that forward
Bridle and winger Kellaher, playing at
centre, made a much better showing than
some of the regular players in that possie
have been doing. The winners scored
six tries to two, McLean adding three
to his already long tally.
“Lancaster Park”: A feature of the
Canterbury-Australia match at Christ-
church was the appearance of Bridle as
centre three-quarter. The Victorian's
great pace and sense of anticipation have
brought him many tries, but as an ideal
forward in pack and loose he has often
been wanting. He shaped well in the
new position, but his presence there sug-
gests that the Australian selectors were
at their wits’ end for a sound team. The
match also marked the last appearance
of George Hart, the speedy winger
who was in Australia with the 1934 All-
Blacks. Hart played 39 matches for
Canterbury and was a member, of the
last All-Black team in Britain.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Australian golf championships
kicked off in Melbourne with the amateur
foursomes and the professional cham-
pionship. The foursomes proved a gift
for Harry Williams and Dick Payne, of
Victoria, who finished seven strokes ahead
of Jim Ferrier and Hattersley (N.S.W.).
The winners putted in almost miraculous
fashion, and finished the morning trip
home with 34 —two under par. Their
card for the match was 143, while the
two Welshmen could do no better than
150.
N.S.W. had its turn when Bolger took
the professional championship, beating
Queensland’s Von Nida by a stroke.
Bolger did the two rounds in 70, 71 and
Von Nida in 74, 68, this last equalling
Williams’s record for the Metropolitan
course.
Inter-State matches featured the third
day’s play in the Australian champion-
ships in Melbourne. For the Vicars Shield
the N.S.W. professionals trounced South
Australia four matches to one, and won
again by beating Victoria three-two.
Harvey was the sole South Australian
winner, defeating J. D. Spence. In the
second match Richardson, of N.S.W..
was downed by Ron Harris, while Martin
Smith proved too good for Booth.
The amateur clash was full of interest,
Queensland taking part for the first
time. Victoria, led by Williams, was too
hot for S.A., taking all seven matches.
Bananaland fought hard with N.S.W.,
Ma prevailing by four matches to three ;
Radcliffe, the Queensland crack, finished
only one down to Ferrier. Jenkin-
son, Joyce and Twemlow won for the
Bananalanders. The final went to Vic-
toria by six to one. Once more Wil-
liams finished ahead of Ferrier, winning
4 and 2. . Hattersley, who beat Ryan,
one up, was N.S.W.’s solitary winner.
Harry Hattersley, the Sydney amateur,
played grand golf in the first two rounds
of the Open at Oakleigh to lead with 139
(70 and 69). But Sarazen’s accuracy
told, and he won the championship with
a card of 282 (70, 71, 70, 71), Williams
(286) being second and Hattersley (288)
third. Gene cut the course record.
❖ * * ij;
“Ike Mcßagg”: There was heavy bet-
ting on the golf championships in Mel-
bourne. Business on the Open was so
brisk that Sydney “Sun” felt it simply
had to give its readers the oil; this was
done by publishing a betting table on
the lines of that used for horseracing,
putting the favorite first and then ask-
ing readers to “add sj” and so on before
considering the others. In this case the
“Sun” painted the lily and assumed a
superlative innocence in its readers by
making the warnings “add six balls” in
case any should think that golfers
wagered in cash like roughnecks at the
races and the dogs.
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro.”: Manager Alderson,
of the just-returned Olympic team, sums
up the non-success of his charges in the
statement that many of the athletes who
competed at the Olympiad would be
rated professionals by even Australia’s
easygoing standard. The Bulletin has
long pointed out that the modern craze
for sport has resulted in wholesale pro-
fessionalism, camouflaged in ways as flag-
rant as they are transparent. Even in cases
where no money passes, the rigid regi-
mentation practised is outside the boun-
daries of amateurism. As a feeder to
professional sport the Olympiad of to-
day has no rival. The question is
whether it is worth while continuing on
that basis.
GEORGE PRICE,
Trainer of Gold Rod and many other
good ones.
“Blue Chalk”: The Australian Billiards
Council performed a record somersault
when, after refusing the entry for the
Australian championships of Westralian
R. Marshall, it decided next day that
he should be permitted to play. The
reason for the first refusal was that Mar-
shall had played an exhibition game
with Lindrum without permission from
the State controllers of the game. Mar-
shall’s plea that there was then no State
control did not influence the verdict. On
second thoughts, after secretary Herring,
of the council, had resigned in protest,
that body decided there was no evi-
dence that Marshall was not an amateur.
Marshall had an easy passage to the
final. Against the Victorian Hancock
(beaten by just on half the game; he
reached 254, and a little later had another
break of 269, bettering Hayes s Aus-
tralian record by c/l ven.


I 1
p
m
Li
m
?■ Wmmmm
1 i
■
IMS
ia
Evensong, St. Paul's, Melbourne.
Etching, John Shirlow.
THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
(Macleod Gallery),
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S
MOST
REPRESENTATIVE
COLLECTION
OF
AUSTRALIAN
ART.
m
WM
I
. y
HR
m "• w
:
m Hi!
n
Sydney Harbor Bridge . Etching , 7. C. Goodchild .
Gallery
Open
Daily,
10 a.m. - 4.30 p.m.
ADMISSION
FREE.
<%-<*
m
am
-A-
%
Where War Ends. Water-color, Norman Lindsay,
Pen and
Pencil
Drawings,
Water-colors,
Oils and
Etchings
By
Australia's
Foremost
Artists
For Sale.
ms
■m i
m H 1111 ISl 111 =
.. ‘
HP
11
I wSSm
, . MS - «/“« x - 1
Roses. Oil-painting, R. W. Phillips.
N. Lindsay,
Hans Heysen,
Arthur Streeton,
E. Gruner,
B. E. Minns,
J. R. Jackson,
Will Ashton,
Fred Leist,
Robt. Johnson,
R. W. Phillips,
D. Pratt,
G. K. Townshend,
Etc., Etc,
pwlp
:
£
■
:
ill i
%
■
m
■H
n
iii
tfifil
warn
I raj 1 «| x 11
MBiiMii mR&m
B8M
Castle Hill Farm. Oil-painting, Robt. Johnson.
Wedding, Birthday or Christmas Gift More Appreciated than a Good Etching or Painting.
Write for Some Suggestions.


&*■■■
r«e
a”'
n”’
hi u
-sv:-'
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location
Luxurious single rooms from 77-
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m.
m
.ssss
HOTEL
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
October Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
CHAIN STORES
PAYMENTS TO EXECUTIVES
FEDERAL BUDGET
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
„b!i,M bv The Bulletin Netv.pt.Oer Co.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, end .11 State.
For Sale
For Sale, Cheao.
BARRIER REEF TOURIST
ISLAND.
LONG ISLAND, Whitsunday Passage, 2
houses, 5 double shacks, llOv. e.l. throughout.
Fully furnished and newly erected 1935. 35ft.
auxiliary launch, 4 boats, 3 acres orchard,
citrus and tropical fruits, 5 milking cows, riding
and harness horses, 400 acres richest soil,
wonderful safe anchorage and good beach,
spendid fishing, oyster beds and coral gardens.
Close to mainland, with good mail service. All
steamers pass the door. Wonderful chance.
Particulars —
W. TRONSON,
Prosperpine, Queensland.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Smith’s Newspapers Prefs.
Under signature of Joynton Smith, the
prefs. in Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd., were
asked to forego accrued divs. to June 30,
1935 (£42,609), and to accept a 5 p.c.
div. thereafter, participating with the
ords. to 7 p.c. Under the N.S.W. Interest
Reduction Act the rate at present is
6.975 p.c., participating up to 9 p.c.
Last Friday it was announced that the
consent in writing of three-fourths of
the pref. shareholders had been received.
A meeting to confirm the agreement is
being held on October 8.
In return for their sacrifice the prefs.
are offered 25 free ords. from present
ord. shareholders for every 100 preis
held.
Further, after first providing for a div.
of 5 p.c. on the pref. shares, it is now pro-
vided that, should the profits of the co.
permit a div.-of more than 5 p.c. to be'pmd
on the ord. shares, the pref. shareholders
will receive the same rate of div. up to
7 p.c.
This “further” benefit is a bit puzzling,
as pref. shareholders already have the
right to participate up to 9 per cent. It
is hardly a quid pro quo. Rather is it
another sacrifice on the part of the prefs.
The proposition boils down to this:
Is it worth while sacrificing a minimum
div. rate of 6.975 p.c. (maximum 9 p.c.),
plus ss. Bd. per share div. arrears, for a
minimum 5 p.c. (maximum 7 p.c.), plus
ss. (nominal) per share in “considera-
tion” ords.?
Whatever else is offered pref. share-
holders are entitled to already. For
instance,
If three-fourths of the. pref. shareholders
agree to these suggestions, then the losses
which have accumulated during the years
of depression will be written off, and the
co. will be able to employ its profits for
div. purposes.
Why the “if”? Are not pref. share-
holders entitled to have that writing-
down carried out whether or not, and any
profits available applied in full towards
wiping out their arrears? The writing-
off is to be provided from tax-free
reserves- —£27,391 at June 30, 1935,
as against a p. and 1. debit of £25,592.
If the ords. were paid 10 p.c. p.a., it
would take nearly 12 years for the prefs.
to make up lost div. arrears in returns
from the one-for-four “consideration"
ordinaries. In such a case they would be
losing 2 p.c. p.a. in pref. divs. also.
Certainly they would hold, on the other
hand, 25 ords. per 100 prefs., worth what
the market was prepared to bid for them.
It is questionable, however, whether the
newspaper, will be able to pay 10 p.c. to
ords. regularly during the next 12 years.
It is a certainty that if the 400,000
Associated News prefs. received from
the sale of the “Guardian” (£175,000
in cash was also acknowledged, part
of which was kept in the show),
and which were whacked up among
ord. shareholders, had been kept in the
business —80,000 were eventually re-
turned by Joynton Smith—Smith’s pref.
capital and divs. would have been in-
finitely more secure to-day. It is also a
fact that during 1927, 1928 and 1929,
when 124 p.c., 10 p.c. and 124 p.c. re-
spectively were distributed to the ords.,
the prefs. were not invited to participate.
Accounts are due in October. There
should be no harm in letting pref. share-
holders have a look at the year’s iinan-
cial results before asking them to make
u final decision.
“If the agreement is ratified.... it is
anticipated that the co. will be in a posi-
tion to pay a div. at the rate of 5 p.c. on
pref. shares in respect of the full year
ended June 30, 1936.” Why this “if”?
Provided the co. is able to pay such a
div., it should.be paid, and no favors
asked in return. Pref. shareholders in the
co. have had a bad time for years now,
and the scrip is still at a substantial dis-
count.
Hodsons Investments, Ltd.
Last week in Brisbane Walter Cain, of
Port Augusta, S.A., sought an interlocu-
tory injunction to restrain Guy Paul
McDonald and Hodsons Investments,
Ltd., of Sydney, from transferring 700
City Electric Light shares to McDonald,
manager of Hodsons. An order to re-
strain the City Electric Co. from regis-
Boss ( dictating );“ —and furthermore, sir, you are a liar, a swindler and
a blackguard. I remain, yours very sincerely .”
tering such a transfer pending trial of an
action was also asked for.
Cain further sought declarations that
(«) The purported transfer of 700 shares
in favor of McDonald was void;
( b ) the consideration from Hodsons had
wholly failed; and
(c) Hodsons, in breach of an agree-
ment made in May, 1936, had presented
the scrip to the C.E.L. Co. for transfer
before 90 days had elapsed.
An order for the delivery to the plaintiff
of the transfers and scrip certificates was
requested in addition.
Macrossan, J., ordered that, on coun-
sel for the C.E.L. Co. lodging the scrip
and transfers in the court registry, and
undertaking to abide by any order the
Court might make as to its ultimate dis-
position, the C.E.L. Co. should be dis-
pensed with in the action, plaintiff to pay
the co.’s costs. On the usual undertaking
as to damages being given the Judge
also ordered that an interlocutory injunc-
tion issue against McDonald and Hod-
sons until trial of the action, or further
order.
Sydney official sales in Mandated Allu-
vials shares ranged as under last week:
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri.
High 31s. Od. 295. 6d. 30s. Od. 31s. od. 295. Od.
Low 235. Od. 28s. Od. 275. 6d. 295. Od. 235. Od.
Sales 6050 2940 2100 3600 3540
On Saturday there were sales at 295.
Work of proving the show (16i miles
from Port Moresby) is still going on.
Members of the board have expressed
themselves as satisfied with the apparent
extent of the oxidised portion of the ore-
body, irrespective of the sulphides (these,
where tapped lately, have shown 9dwt.).
Considered as a proposition still in the
testing stage, the outlook, on the general
manager’s reports, is promising. At 255.
a share the market puts a value of
£117,500 on the show.
Mandated Alluvials’ mine property
appeared at £6094 in the books at July
31. Development figured for £3233, and
establishment £1137. In addition, £5OOO
has since been added to mine account
by allotment of the share consideration.
With plant (£491), this brings the book
value of the undertaking up to £15,955,
subject to later development. There was
£514 in cash at July 31, as against only
£ll of liabilities; £14,000 in capital and
premiums has since come in, which
should be enough to test the Sapphire
leases thoroughly.
A furphy was current in Pitt-street last
week that some Sydney cash-order cos.
were to have their discounts cut by re-
tailers from 12| p.c. and 10 p.c. to 5
p.c. Cash Orders (Amalgamated) shares
were especially affected. The truth is
that, following the initiative of one co.,
some of the cash-order concerns have
offered, during the midsummer and mid-
winter sales, to accept a discount of
p.c. from the retailers, the old (higher)
rate to operate at all other times. It is
a reasonable concession, and shouldn’t
affect the cash-order cos. to an adverse
extent.
* * * *
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd., in 1935 paid
6.2 p.c. on its prefs., 2\ p.c. to the ords.,
and carried £2233 to reserves. In the
half-year to June, sales were well main-
tained, and a substantial increase in
profit over the same part of 1935 is
reported. Earnings, less pref. require-
ments, were 4.6 p.c. on ord. capital last
term, so that prospects of something
better than 2} p.c. at the end of 1936
are hopeful. The ords. lifted from 10s.
6d. to 12s. last week. The Australian
wine industry may gain some benefit by
the upset in Spain. N. S. Wales con-
sumption, 1,619,000 gallons in 1935, has
risen 398,000 gallons since 1932.
Some industrial ordinary shares show-
ing over 4 p.c. on current div. rates, to-
gether with the return which would be
received if they distributed all their last
disclosed earnings:
Yield Yield
on on
Div., Profit,
Price. p.c. P c -
A/asian Paper .. 35/3 4.57 5.1
Adelaide Steam .. 28/- 4.28 4.6
Berlei .. .. 38/6 5.19 8.0
Castlemaine - Perkins 22/8 4.42 6
David Jones .. 46/3 4.34 6.8
Gordon and Gotch 51/- 4.74 5.0
Henry Jones .. 42/9 4.10 4.9
Pitt, Son and B. .. 42/6 4.70 4.7
Yarra Falls .. 40/6 4.94 5.7
Adelaide Steam, Berlei, Castlemaine-
Perkins, Gordon and Gotch, Pitt, Son
and Badgery, and Yarra Falls have re-
cently published their accounts. The
others’ are due shortly.
* * * *
Fine gold, around £6 17s. 6d. (stg.) an
ounce in London, was worth approxi-
mately £8 10s. 9d. in Sydney last week.
This compares with an average of £8
17s. 6d. (Aust.) for over a year previ-
ously. The drop of 6s. to 7s. an ounce
means something to low-grade mines ; on
the Golden Mile it will reduce returns
by about 2s. 6d. per ton of ore, and in
Mt. Morgan’s case by Is. 3d. Returns,
of course, have already been affected to
a fluctuating extent for a few months.
After the trouble in France, sterling
increased in value as compared with
francs, which were gold-backed.
So gold was worth less in
sterling. There is no reason to
expect a further permanent and
extensive drop in the price of
the yellow metal during the near
future. Following the French
devaluation proposals at the
week-end there was a weaken-
ing in sterling and a strengthen-
ing in the price of gold, and a
general firming is now likely.
* * *
With a gold holding of
£247,600,000, eclipsing all pre-
vious records, the Bank of Eng-
land’s method of valuing the
metal is of. increasing interest,
especially in the light of last
week’s developments. The bul-
lion is taken over from the
Exchange Equalisation Fund at
85s.—“the obsolete par”—and
the fund carries on its books
the nominal loss on the purchase
price, which has been as high as
£7 9s. an ounce. The B. of E.’s
currency operations are really
carried out on behalf of the Treasury.
It is not likely that much, if any, loss
will eventually be shown on the Equali-
sation Fund.
* * * *
N. S. Wales gold output for the first
seven months of 1936 was 31,896 fine
ounces, which compares with 24,5720 z.
for the same period of 1935.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls, Herald and Weekly Times
and Howard Smith ords. relaxed slightly after
firmness early in the week.
Gordon and Gotch ords. firmed to 51s. 6d.
Beau Monde ords., ex rights, were sought
after at 21s. 9d. Sellers offered Holeproof
ords. at 255. after sales at 245.
Ballarat Brewery ords. were quoted at
435. 6d. seller, 41s. 6d. buyer.
Wellington Alluvial rights dropped to
2s. 9d. on Friday.
Mt. Lyell announced a production of 12,585
tons electrolytic copper for the current year to
Sept. 16. The accounts close to-day (30th), so
that another fortnight’s production is to come,
and will bring output to over 13,000 tons. The
scrip was firm at 30s. —London quotes for the
metal showed a strengthening.
Australian Knitting Mills, makers of
“Golden Fleece” woollen underwear and other
lines, disclosed a net profit of £41,230, subject
to £13,180 of special expenditure, mainly in
connection with a law case. Deducting £28,545
received from investments that have since been
distributed to shareholders (they were mainly
scrip in Yarra Falls), the total trading profit
represented 6.2 p.c. on capital.


KNEE ACTION FOR YOUR
BICYCLE.
Float over rough roads and bumps with the
smoothness of a 1936 saloon. Hide miles farther and
faster without getting tired. Can be attached in
two minutes to any make of bicycle. Lasts a life-
time. Be the first in your town. Send 2/6 P.N.
for easy plans to build; or ready to attach, 8/6.
PRACTICAL, PRODUCTS,
429-431 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Gods Who Die
The Story of Samoa’s Greatest
Adventurer; as told to JULIAN
DANA. With Illustrations.
Cheaper issue, 10/6.
George Egerton Leigh Westbrook, Samoa’s
greatest adventurer, spent 60 years of his life
in the South Seas. In this fascinating book
Julian Dana sets down his amazing story as
Westbrook told it to him. Westbrook tells of
the natives; of the flourishing of scoundrels;
the terrifying loneliness; of shipwreck and
brigands, hurricanes and tribal wars, and of the
strange beauty which held him almost against
his will.
Rising Tide
By ELISAVETA FEN.
[Empire Library
This novel gives an interesting picture of
the life of a bourgeois family in a Russian
Black Sea city during the troubled years 1919-
1920, alternately in the hands of Red and
White troops. The book provides a remarkable
and realistic description of a section of society
in a time of great social upheaval.
The King’s Good Servant
By OLIVE B. WHITE.
[Imperial Library
‘This book can hardly fail to win the
respect of all who read it through. It is an
imaginative reconstruction of the life and
thought of Sir Thomas More, from the con-
clusion of the peace of Cambrai in 1529 to
the last scene, in July, 1535. Professor White
knows her subject thoroughly, in its personal,
its political, its humanistic and its religious
elements; and her purpose was not so much
to tell a story as to unfold a mind.”
— -“Times” Literary Supplement.
Macmillan’s Three-and-sixpenny
Novels—New Volumes.
CAPTAIN NICHOLAS.
By Hugh Walpole.
THE PROVINCIAL LADY IN
AMERICA. By E. M. Delafield.
THE SILVER FLAME.
By James Hilton.
THE OLD MAN’S BIRTHDAY.
By Richmal Crompton.
DEFY THE FOUL FIEND.
By John Collier.
OUR YOUNG BARBARIANS.
By Barbara Silver.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2. 8
insist on your boxes
containing sixty matches.
If they count 'only fifty,
you lose two boxes in
every packet
i\ T y v |
i
mmy Mmm ml
i Jt?l &
■ >*,ljt & .
v mi t - j
:T V
■H
IN AUSTRAUA
'
I
- •• «rjL|
V
BRYANT & MAY $ MATCHES Average contents sixty
Guinea Airways-Holden’s Merger
In June, 1934, Guinea Airways ac-
quired, for £20,175, a controlling interest
(15,000 £1 shares) in a competitor,
Holden’s Air Transport Services (paid
capital £25,000). Now an offer has been
made to the remaining Holden’s share-
holders of one Guinea Airways £1 share
for every two Holden’s held. Some
shareholders in the smaller co. are won-
dering how they are to benefit. With
Guinea scrip fetching 31s. 6d. and
Holden’s selling at 265. before the an-
nouncement, the affected shareholders
were asked to sacrifice a market value
of 10s. 3d. a share, apart from
any accrued dividend. No meeting
has been convened, Holden’s shareholders
simply being invited to sign assent and
deposit their scrip with the Bank of
Adelaide.
In a circular Holden’s board advises
that competition has increased, and there
is a suggestion of liquidation if share-
holders do not agree to accept Guinea
Airways’ offer of purchase. Yet in its
last financial year the co. that Captain
Les Holden founded netted 24.5 p.c.
on its capital, apparently after liberal
provision for depreciation and contingen-
cies, while Guinea Airways showed 34.5
p.c. on its £75,000 of share-money.
At Dec. 31, 1935, Holden’s had £4841
in cash, £11,073 in debtors, and working
assets, including six aeroplanes, to the
book value of £17,896. Creditors
appeared for only £1773. Net tangibles
were given a value of 245. lOd. for each
o! the 25,000 shares.
At February 29, 1936, Guinea Air-
ways’ 75,000 shares had net tangible
backing of 335. 4d. a share, which in-
cluded a fleet of 10 aeroplanes.
A merger certainly, by elimination
of competition and the saving in over-
head, should be “in the interests of both
cos.” But why such a drastic writing-
down of Holden’s values? The £1 shares
had dropped to 15s. last week. A two-
for-three exchange (instead of one-for-
two), giving Holden’s scrip an approxi-
mate par value at the current market
for Guinea Airways shares, would not
call for any generosity, provided book
values and earning power were correctly
appraised in the last respective annual
accounts. In any case, why have Holden’s
shareholders not been fully informed on
the present trading position? Official
information has been vague. Though
the public is in a minority, the courtesy
of a general meeting to discuss the pro-
posal would have created a better feel-
ing than the present method of bar-
gaining.
Australia’s short-term debt amounted
to £80,748,000 at August 31—£33,375,000
in London and £47,373,000 in Australia.
The Commonwealth Bank is creditor for
a substantial part of the total. At June
30 in its banking department £27,252,000
of Commonwealth securities was held,
and “debentures and other securities”
figured at £39,059,000 in the note-issue
branch. All these securities are not
short-term; but the bank has such a
swag of them that it proposed to put
part of the holding out to the public
six months ago. The Bank of N. S.
Wales defeated the move by lifting de-
posit' rates.
Wool' shipments from the Common-
wealth in July and August were 40,882
bales lighter (compared with July-Aug.,
1935) at 142,022 bales. Though Britain
took 13,871 bales more, Japan took
47,670 bales less.
* * * *
Lead and spelter showed an all-round
slackening overseas last week. Falls
were not extensive, but they were
enough to cause a drop to £9 14s. in
North Broken Hill shares ; Souths were
only slightly weaker at £6 Is. Copper
at present is steadiest of the base metals,
notwithstanding the producers’ intention
of raising output by 5 p.c.
* * * #
From 128,576 short tons of ore treated
Lancefield (Beria, W.A.) has declared 2s.
in divs. There is over 200,000 tons of
probable ore of similar value, and an
estimated 850,000 tons beneath the No.
11 level. If these quantities and values
are realised there appear to be divs. of
20s. or thereabouts in sight with costs
on their present basis. Actually there
should be improvement in extraction and
exes. ; the ore position may be better or
worse than indicated.
* * * *
Wiluna’s record throughput of 50,466
tons during August produced 10,1280 z.,
up 520 z. Though there has been a slight
increase in gold production over each of
the last three months, value has been
kept just over the £86,000 (Aust.) mark
each time, slackening in the London price
being responsible. Over £1,000,000-
worth of the metal a year is now being
won. Lower grade ore is being treated
at present. The sintering plant has
operated since the beginning of Sep-
tember, and smelting of concentrates
should start shortly.
* * * *
Wool prices? The N. S. Wales Statis-
tician compiles a monthly index of
Sydney rates. This is how it has be-
haved during 1936 to date:
Jan 164 June 154
Feb 169 July 156
Mar 172 Aug 159
Apr 172 Sep. 15 .... 154
May 171
At the date the table closed wheat stood
at the highest level since 1929. It was
still firmer last week.
* * * *
Since the import restrictions against
U.S.A. chassis came into operation there
has been a falling-off in N. S. Wales new
car registrations. The weekly average
for Feb., March and April was 446, 458
and 416 respectively ; for the next four
months the figures dropped to 393, 376,
321 and 303. In July and August, 1935,
there was a big rise in registrations.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY .DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Uncivilised”
Charles Chauvel in the direction of
this Australian talkie shows more film
sense than his predecessors and contem-
poraries in the same field. The material
at his disposal were a romance of the
Tarzan breed, hundreds of aborigines
and a cast of white actors mostly new
to the screen and to acting. He has put
these into well-chosen, convincing scenic
settings, kept the action moving briskly,
and utilised, perhaps more effectively
than authentically, some of the most pic-
turesque features of life in Australia’s
Wild Nor’-west.
The plot, into which enter dope-
runners, mounted police, a mysterious
white man who rules a native tribe,
Afghans, a Eurasian girl, a witch-doctor
and abos. to any amount, is fantastic and
unconvincing, but at least its outlines are
clear and its working-out logical. The
much-debated scene in which the white
heroine goes bathing in a pool in the
altogether has a conclusion which should
delight the senior State’s Mr. Spooner,
stickler for beach decorum. The savage
white man, Mara, discovering his lady-
love thus disporting herself, blushingly
withdraws, returns with a garment and
tosses it to the swimmer, who garbs her-
self from neck to knee under water. The
throttling of Moopil, the killer, by Mara
is merely part of an excellent battle im-
pression—as good of its kind as anything
Hollywood has done in the way of hurly-
burlies.
Main weaknesses of the film are in dia-
logue and acting ; some of the players are
Ashton Jarry as the Afghan in
“Uncivilised.”
obviously tyros and others are badly
cast. But the production does capture a
flavor that is Australian, and interestingly
Australian, and this virtue may win for
it an acceptance abroad despite its his-
trionic shortcomings. At Sydney Em-
bassy.
“Walking on Air”
About half of this opus is good
comedy ; the rest is radio-crooner pad-
ding. Gene Raymond is the crooner,
employed to impersonate a French count
and insult a heavy father (Henry Stephen-
son). His impersonation is food for
many laughs. Of course t|ie goil in the
case (Ann Southern) falls for the crooner
and gives up the idea of another alliance,
of which her father sternly disapproved,
but just when the film appears likely to
end up happily there is a misunderstand-
ing, and to rectify it the crooner has to
disorganise a broadcasting session so that
he can bawl an explanation to his
sweetie. The affair ends with crooner
and goil both in gaol, which seems a bit
drastic but perhaps not entirely unwar-
ranted —the goil did some crooning, too.
At Sydney Embassy.
“Rhythm on the Range”
The forebodings that might be aroused
by a title like that, coupled with the fact
that the affair stars Bing Crosby, are
not realised. Mr. Crosby’s crooning is
mostly incidental to his duties as valet
to a bull, which gives a humorous twist
to his soulful yawpings. He isn’t a very
convincing cowboy, but passes muster.
Story is the trite one of the millionaire’s
daughter (engaged to a millionaire’s son)
who, egged on by her cattle-breeding
aunt goes out west and wins the love
of a golden-hearted cowpuncher. So
that she may have plenty of his society
she travels for hundred of miles with
him in a cattle truck, and hundreds of
miles more in a motor-car which she
stole (millionaires’ daughters are evi-
dently predatory by inheritance). She
says she’s a cook. Frances Farmer is
all that a millionaire’s daughter should
be, and Mr. Crosby produces at least
one ditty, “Empty Saddles,” that is worth
remembering. But the honors of the
show go to Bob Burns, a radio mono-
logist making his first appearance on the
screen. He’s a humorist of the Will
Rogers or Mark Twain type, but his flow
of patter is as smooth as honey. He
rambles on and on, giving quaint and
unexpected turns to the most common-
place and natural observations. Lucille
Webster Gleason shines in a middle-aged
Westernor role, and some good comic
support is given by Martha Kaye, whose
facial contortions must be seen to be
believed. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Big Brown Eyes”
A gangster episode in which Cary
Grant is the muscular and daring sleuth
and Joan Bennett, alternately a mani-
cure girl and a reporter, is his wise-
cracking sweetie. Sleuth is a pretty good
amateur ventriloquist, a circumstance
which helps to swell the light comedy
content’ of the film and to get the hero
out of a bad fix. Action is swift and
dialogue amusing. Gangsters are as
sinister and coldblooded as anyone
could wish for, and the triumph of right
and justice over crime and corruption is
complete and overwhelming. At Sydney
Prince Edward.
“The Great Ziegfeld”
As it is only a few years since Florenz
Ziegfeld passed off life’s stage, a screen
exploitation of his life and loves seems
not in the best of taste. However, the
intention appears to have been laudatory.
The film occupies about three hours
in screening its collection of theatrical
legends, scandals and other reminis-
cences, but despite its great length holds
interest fairly closely. Casting is excel-
lent. William Powell, with a slightly re-
inforced nose, makes Ziegfeld a non-
chalant, courageous adventurer; Luise
Rainer gets the right mixture of sparkle
and pathos into the part of Anna Held—
her exotic accent is a big asset. Myrna
Loy is Billie Burke, the second Mrs. Zieg-
feld, a saccharine part, off her usual
beat, but she does it well. Frank Morgan,
as rival showman Billings, almost steals
the show from the rest of the galaxy ; his
character sketch of a good-hearted, loud-
laughed impresario of the old flamboyant
type is firmly etched. Virginia Bruce is
Audrey Dane, beautiful but alcoholic;
Nat Pendleton, who has the physique for
the job, is Sandow. Fannie Brice and
Ray Bolger represent themselves, of
course convincingly. A. A. Trimble con-
tributes a really remarkable impersona-
tion of Will Rogers, and Buddy Doyle,
as Eddie Cantor, puts over “If You Knew
Susy” rather better than the original
could ever have done if. Walter Donald-
son sings in several scenes, and Jerome
Kern plays and sings “Look for the
Silver Lining.”
Excerpts from the glittering spectacles
with which Ziegfeld made stage history
on Broadway are liberally interspersed ;
various of the “Follies,” “Sally,” “Kid
Boots,” “Rio Rita,” “The Three Mus-
keteers,” “Show Boat” and “Whoopee’
are represented by characteristic scenas,
Dennis Hoey as the white Binghi in
“Uncivilised.”
interpolations that become a bit weari-
some. At the end Ziegfeld, ruined for
the nth time, dies alone, muttering that
he must have more and higher steps in
his next stage spectacle. At Sydney St.
James.
“Public Enemy’s Wife”
G-men, those much-popularised heroes
of U.S.A. law, stalk through this opus.
In a fierce blaze of limelight they track
down their quarries, who have the ad-
vantage of concealment in the under-
world’s darkness. But right must pre-
vail.
Margaret Lindsay is the wife of bold,
bad killer Cesar Romero, who on get-
ting life for kidnapping “fixes” his inno-
cent spouse at the trial so that she gets
a few years as an accessory. This is
his charming method of keeping her
from the attentions of other men. At
her release (they are in the same prison)
she expresses a hope that he will rot
there ; then, well-lined from some mys-
terious source, she sets up as a single
lady at a fashionable seaside resort, after
having severed the bonds of matrimony.
Enter simultaneously rich playboy Dick
Foran and G-man Pat O’Brien, the
former mushy over Margaret, the latter
on business bent to trace her ex-hus-
band’s pats. Sentiment plus cash breaks
down the lady’s resistance, and orange-
blossoms are in the offing when dis-
closure of her past freezes Richard’s
ardor. Meanwhile, ex-hubby escapes,
swearing to make any second husband
of his ex-wife look like a colander. Pat
sees possibility of luring the escapee to
the nuptials and, when Dick reneges,
hops in as dummy bridegroom. But the
dud ceremony turns out to be genuine.
Gangster fails to appear, and Pat and
bride hit out for the synthetic honey-
moon that they still hope will prove a
trap. It does. Comedy here is mixed
with thrills. Escapee pinches G-man’s
bride and lights out at high velocity. Pat
stiffens jaw, straps on armpit holster,
hollers for the Force and the chase is
on. It winds up with a lead-filled bad
man and heroic G-man and bride safe
at last. Of course, they’ve been in love
all the while.
Plenty of excitement, leavened by the
whimsical, dry humor of the tight-
lipped Patrick. Margaret Lindsay flashes
dark eyes attractively. Cesar Romero is
a ferocious Latin-type killer, Dick Foran
has a simple task and Robert Armstrong
as Pat’s offsider gathers a few grins. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Enlighten Thy Daughter”
Principally remarkable for the emer-
gence of a female basso crooner who at
intervals booms forth a dreadful ditty
with the refrain “Don’t Leave Me in the
Dark.” The painful story, told with
almost incredible circumlocution and
dreariness, is that of the twenty-year-old
daughter of a professional uplifter —a
gentleman who gives broadcast addresses
about parents’ duty to their children. On
her first night home from boarding-
school pop has a radio date and mom a
bridge party, so daughter goes over to
uncle’s place to frolic with her cousins.
Uncle and aunty are also out, so the
young folks respond to a ’phone invita-
tion to a party at a wealthy young
bachelor’s apartment. Apparently it is
situated in a wild and desolate part of
the State, for when w.y.b. is driving
innocent daughter home a frightful
storm comes on and the car gets bogged
or something. So, of course, they stay
all night at a roadhouse, as a married
couple. Later w.y.b. gets engaged to
someone else and innocent daughter
takes poison, expiring to slow music
surrounded by all the members of a cast
whose acting seldom rises above the
lowest amateur standard. Previewed at
Film House, Sydney.
“Back to Nature”
The Jones Family is not to everyone’s
taste. Pop Jones is sometimes rather too
egregiously expansive, the stage-struck
12-year-old daughter is quite a bit over-
drawn, and momma is too unfailingly
sweet-tempered. But these little exag-
gerations help to get the family quickly
into sharp focus. In this latest instal-
ment of their adventures they go with
pop on a motor-caravan holiday. Eldest
daughter gets entangled with a smooth-
tongued crook for whom the police of
two States are searching; eldest son
goes motor-boating with a girl whose
ideas of steering get him into trouble.
But the family, as usual, makes a fine
team in an emergency, and it comes out
of these vicissitudes with colors flying.
At Sydney State.
Francis Lederer in ‘'One Rainy After-
noon,” at Sydney Plaza.
“The Crimson Circle”
An Edgar Wallace film with a good
snappy start, and excitement all the way.
One loses count of the murders, which
come as fast as the Circle gang can
fastens its ominous marks on the chosen


Public Notice.
“ ‘Uncle Dick’ Will Sell ’Em Quick.”
“UNCLE DICK,” the well-known poet, etc.,
from Young and Temora, alias “Dingo Dick,”
from the Maranoa, wishes meet any old friends
of the hinterlands of N.S.W. and Qld. who
can assist in forming syndicate to publish his
poetical revue “Dying Diggers’ Depositions in
Blighty,” etc. Most of the contributors have
•‘fled” and the time is ripe.—“UNCLE DICK,”
c/o Eagar’s Agencies, Cronulla, N.S.W
WOOL YARNS No. 1
PROGRESS and ACHIEVEMENT
The workmanship of Yarra Falls products
is undoubtedly a national achievement and
is symbolic of the work of Yarra Falls as a
whole ... of striving, building, improving,
achieving. The excellence of Yarra Falls
dyeing—the exquisite colouring obtained, the
variety of tonings and soft gradations of
shade—is but the finishing touch applied to
an excellence of craftsmanship that is carried
through every process in the manufacture of
Yarra Falls yarns and Woven Fabrics to
its ultimate conclusion in the finished article.
Yarra Falls is a monument of successful
endeavour. A National Achievement.
Have you ever paused to think of the part
you play in this achievement? For undoubt-
edly you do play a part. Your loyal Aus-
tralian support to this, the greatest textile mill
in the Southern Hemisphere, means more
and more employment for fellow-Australians;
it means expansion, and is a tremendous
factor in the development of Australia as a
great self-contained nation.
Yarra Falls offer you the finest in Worsted
Knitting and Weaving Yarns, Twills and
Fancy Worsted Suitings, Venetians, Bara-
theas, Covert Coatings, Wool Crepes and
Wool Georgettes. Therefore, THINK
before ordering your next suiting or dress
material and specify YARRA FALLS.
YARRA FALLS LIMITED
Worsted Spinning and Weaving Mills
ABBOTSFORD, N 9, VICTORIA
victims. It’s an amazingly efficient gang ;
it even has spies employed as gaol-
warders so that a whiff of poison in a
drinking-mug stops a prisoner from
giving away all he knows. It gets a
female tool into a bank secretarial job
and fills the pockets of Noah Beery
(before it polishes him off) with crackly
banknotes. Hugh Wakefield is the central
figure, suave and polished and toothfully
smiling. The finale is effectively creepy,
with the “master” in a sort of diver’s
dress and the gang masked in the hold
of a disused ship, with heroes and
heroines so mixed up with murderers that
one begins to doubt the ultimate victory
of right over might. At Melbourne
Athenaeum.
Some First Nights
Main features of the third orchestral
concert conducted in Sydney by Dr.
Malcolm Sargent were an inspiring per-
formance of Brahms’s First Symphony
and the topnotch playing of Ernest
Llewellyn in Chausson’s “Poeme.” The
certainty and lucidity of Dr. Sargent’s
readings have not been better exemplified
than in his treatment of the Brahms, and
Llewellyn’s achievement showed that
what the conductor can do for an
orchestra, an audience or a solo pianist
he can also do for a solo violinist. As
a mathematician might put it, any of
these multiplied by Sargent is raised to
a higher power.
New beauties were educed from the
familiar “Oberon” overture and from
the Berlioz version of the “Racoczy”
march, and the Town Hall audience
went home with the feeling that it had
done justice to an almost perfect four-
course musical dinner,
•J*
Two revivals in Melbourne last week
provided interesting contrasts in audience-
reaction. Reverential houses listened to
Daviot’s “Richard of Bordeaux,” ex-
pressed in modern idiom and dressed in
regulation period costume, at the King’s ;
at the Queen’s, Beresford Fowler, in the
play written round the same unlucky
monarch, was intoning the illustrious
language of Shakspeare amidst a sea of
interruptions, catcalls, yells of laughter
and ironic handclaps. In this critic's
opinion neither the awe at the King's
nor the irreverence at the Queen's was
based on anything more artistically sub-
stantial than extraneous associations.
Some of the noisy youths at the Queen's
had listened respectfully a few days pre-
viously to a university lecturer telling
them about Shakspeare at their college.
Attending the little theatre as a matter
of solemn duty, they were plunged into
an environment which had no associa-
tions for them that they could connect
either with dramatic art or entertainment.
There were no orchestra, no flunkeys in
field-marshal’s uniform at the door or
Mexican cowgirls or Spanish beauties to
show the patron to his seat. Conse-
quently the young men couldn’t under-
stand it and felt that somebody was
putting it over them. That Mr. Fowler
was giving one of the most genuine per-
formances of his long career, under the
most adverse circumstances, that his
queen looked more queenly and acted
with more discretion than her counterpart
at the King’s and that the language of
Bolingbroke, despite its archaic structure,
seemed to be charged with more signi-
ficance than the colloquialisms of Daviot’s
somewhat obvious characters meant no-
thing ; the audience felt it was being
outraged. Its behavior was not con-
scious rudeness as was shown when Mr.
Fowler stepped out of his antique frame
and became for a few minutes an ordi-
nary human being in order to appeal to
their sporting instincts. The writer is
aware that he was probably in the realm
of mere association also when he found
“Richard of Bordeaux” satisfactory only
in places ; for all he knows it may be
a better play on the whole than Shak-
speare’s and the things he didn’t like
about it may be the best parts of it. Ken
Tuckfield balanced the nonchalance, bad
temper and self-pity of Richard in nice
proportions. Gregan McMahon’s pro-
duction was as ornate as Fowler’s was
modest.
The only fresh things about the Gil-
bert and Sullivan season at Adelaide
Royal are three: a popularity and an
attendance probably exceeding those of
any previous season; the illness of
Godfrey Stirling, allowing Vincent Mc-
Murray a chance at “A Pair of Spark-
ling Eyes” and other star items; and
comedian Ivan Menzies giving a talk
about the Oxford group at the Cathedral
on Sunday by invitation of the Bishop.
“Louis XIV. at Versailles,” by J. Caraud, in Anthony
Horderns Gallery, Sydney.
Current Artbursts
Now that Blamire Young has passed
on, the banner of romanticism in Aus-
tralian art is carried by Tom Garrett, a
comprehensive show of whose works
occupies the Blaxland Galleries, Sydney,
Such prosaic generalisations as the blue-
ness of sky and the greenness of trees
don’t exist for Garrett. The sort of
trees he’ll most likely put with a blue
sky are blue trees, but he is quite cap-
able of executing a sylvan scene in
purples or golden browns, and investing
it not only with charm and beauty but
with a specious air of reality. Many
of his water-colors look like very finely-
executed monochrome etchings. When
he goes in for color
he does it with a
whole heart', as in
his monotype of
York-street, where
the passers-by and
the vehicles are vivid
splashes of emerald,
sapphire and ver-
milion. Indeed, when-
ever Garrett paints
Sydney, whether
down in the ’Loo or
on top of one of the
hundred hills, he
discovers in the town
an elfin mood that
would have delighted
G. K. Chesterton.
•I* -1* *l* *1"
Charles Bryant
shows half a hundred
canvases, mostly sea
pieces, at the new
David Tones gallery in Sydney’s George-
street. Much better than average
draughtsmanship and an unerring eye
for the picturesque make these pictures
likeable at first glance. What dawns
upon the observer after more detailed
inspection is the sure touch with which
the artist surmounts the most difficult
problems of light and shade. An
example is “Moonrise, Brixham,” in
which the somewhat ghostly and theatri-
cal effect of a moonrise in late twilight
is captured in a remarkably clever
fashion. “Drying the Blue Nets, Douar-
nenez,” is another example that portrays
Jate afternoon unmistakably. There’s
some fine architectural drawing combined
with a beautiful adjustment of values in
“The Centre of the Empire,” a view of
London’s roof tops; a snappy treatment
of mud flats in a glimpse of the Thames
at Chelsea, and some beautiful water
painting in “The Louvre, Paris.” “Con-
carneau from the Ramparts,” a charac-
teristic and excellent piece, goes to Syd-
ney gallery. Big sea panoramas such as
“Cowes Regatta” and “Storm Clouds
over Tilbury” are impressive, but not
so interesting as many of the smaller
pieces.
*!* -i- v
Gladys Owen’s show of pictures at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, falls under
three heads —colored pen drawings,
water-colors and woodcuts. In the first
of these styles, which is one Miss Owen
has very prettily developed, are sketches
of Continental street scenes. The archi-
tectural drawing is sound, and coloring
and composition are admirable. Less
distinguished are the Australian water-
colors, though in “The Big Tree, Shell-
harbor,” acute contrasts of light and
shade are put to effective use. The wood-
cuts are a mixed lot ; some masterly,
some trivial. Technically “The Bush
Pool” stands out; pictorially “Rose Bay
Convent” is one of the best.


T!ie Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
V
M A 6068
liltrVy
232 PITT ST.
OAILV AT
10*45a« 2.15 8=
{NOT CONTINUOUS)
m
atmm
tH ]
**4
17th
''aTsO:
H SIXTH
ARCH
JIME
\ /a
z&sl
m
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
lfi Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
For the first time the P.E.N. Club en-
tertained a vice-regal guest last week.
Lady Gowrie dined with the writers at
the Forum Club, and made one of the
prettiest little speeches in her dew-soft
voice. President Elliott Napier, who did
the honors, had with him a very frail-
looking Mrs. Napier. This was her first
social outing in months that have been
ill-starred with sickness. General and
Mrs. Anderson were other guests, Mrs.
Anderson still with the aura of poems
published by the hard-to-please “Corn-
hill.” Dora Wilcox Moore was there
in black-and-white crepes. Secretary
Dora Payter’s black frock wore a par-
terre of white gardenias ; Jeanie Ranken’s
black frock had winged sleeves.
Jessie Urquhart’s magnolia satin and
pearls looked as though there were real
money in writing. Poetess Dorothea
Mackellar wore a frock like a moonlight
dream. It was of grey chiffon, its float-
ing panels lined with hibiscus red. Muni-
cipal librarian Bertie was there ; so was
Professor Sadler. Ethel Turner Curlewis,
Winifred Birketf, Flora Eldershaw,
G. B. Lancaster, of Pageant fame, Mrs.
Timothy Kelly, in two tones of flame,
Robert Garran, Marjorie Quinn, a noc-
turne in black lace, John Preece, Eric
Baume, Mary Lang and Vera Dwyer
were others.
Everybody has been going back to
Charlie Bryant’s show again and again,
so that there’s quite a club air about
the gallery at David Jones’s. The
attendance on the opening day was
rather a record for a one-man show.
Over 350 came to see, and those who
had money couldn’t resist buying. The
National Gallery and Manly art gallery
each bought a sea piece. The Rupert
Scammells’ home is to be enriched by
an arresting cloud effect that Cox or
Sam Bough might have been proud of.
The Lieutenant-Governor said the open-
ing piece, and his wife’s claret-colored
frock with its pale, almost pink, revers
that ended in a bow was much admired.
The artist’s sisters did the honors later
at a great tea party. Julian Ashton and
Mrs. Julian were there, and Trixie Tange
came with Mary Mackinson, who bought
a picture. Mrs. H. Barron’s upstanding
hat showed the Russian influence. The
Hankes, the A. G. Thomas couple and
Judge Backhouse were others in the
throng.
Every second person in Sydney seems
to have had a snack on the Awatea.
There have been lunches and little “dos”
with a very shipping flavor. Then there
were the tea parties, where sooner or
later you met everyone you knew lurk-
ing about the miles of deck or busy with
a cup amid the Nigerian cherrywood
of the dining-room, or ,the oak and the
ash and the weeping willow tree of the
lounge. This is an immense place—by
revolving slowly from one tub armchair
to another the chances are all in favor
of a stowaway never being sighted twice
by the same person. By wearing an anti-
vacuum hat and shoes you could even
defy the cleaners.
The carpets and curtains in the cabins
are a joy. If the color scheme of walls
or hangings is pink, then pinkly flushed
is the carpet. All the colors of the spec-
trum are to be found on each side of the
long, wide alleyways, each cabin a nice
color composition. Then there are the
bedside telephones. Nothing but the
bank balance to stop you ringing up
friends all around the Tasman. The baby
eiderdowns, cosy under their silk top
cover, make a strong appeal to the
maternal instinct.
There are six tennis courts on deck
and two under cover. There are a gym-
nasium and slimming baths of every
description. There’ll be many a woman
leaving Sydney an o.s. and arriving in
Maoriland a sylph. There’s a bank of
flowers all a-growing and a-blowing.
There are swimming pools, and there’s
an invitation to the dance in panels
showing figures posed for the classic
dance, the minuet or savage capers. In
the children’s dining-room there are
carvings of kangaroos and other of Aus-
tralia’s kindly animals.
An institution too little known is the
hospital established at Springwood by
knight Thomas Buckland for women
convalescing from nervous disorders, it
stands in 127 acres of ground, and in
respect of situation, scenery and air no
hospital in the Southern Hemisphere can
beat it. It has an easterly aspect, and
on a clear day the Bridge, 50 miles away,
can be seen. A brick structure, with
beautiful interior decorations, a sunny
room for each patient, very comfortable
quarters for the competent staff, an old
garden which is being greatly extended,
and perfect sanitation, it is certainly a
revelation to those seeing it for the first
time. And because of the noble munifi-
cence of the veteran banker —who is 88,
but has the mental vigor of a man half
his years —the charges don’t reach hotel
rates. The Buckland hospital is a splen-
did gift to Australian womanhood.
Beatrice Wines, one of the most active
girls in Sydney, is president of the
Sydney University Women's Union and
honorary librarian to Sydney’s War
Memorial Carillon. She holds a job in
the Fisher library, and brings much
brightness to that bit of the Univer-
sity. She produces one-act plays for
the S.U.D.S. Her recreations are
music, hiking, gardening and acting. She
is now rehearsing the part of Lady
Bucktrout (this was a Sybil Thorndike
role) in Robert Morley’s “Short Story.”
This will be the October offering of the
Players’ Club. Photo, from Howard
Harris.
Rainbow runs that ended in winged
skis were the overhead decoration of the
Blaxland Galleries when the Ski Coun-
cil held its ball. Around the walls were
tiny fir-trees powdered with snow, part
of a glittering snow scene that ended in
the triumphant word Kosciusko. This
had the look of being hoar-frosted like
the lettering of an Old World Christmas
card, and was blazoned high above the
tables, an incentive to still nobler doings
by the ski intrepids. There were about
700 dancers, and, although dressing was
of the de luxe order, trains were hardly
present.
Capes, however, were on almost every
frock. Some of these ended with a
silver tassel; some were in a draped
effect that left one shoulder bare.
Of this fashion was the cape worn by
the wife of Dr. Justin Marked. Her
frock of palely gold lace was high in
front; its cape covered the right shoulder,
then swung down, leaving the left bare.
Add red-gold hair and a cluster of
yellow tulips. Maybelle Markell’s moss-
green velvets trailed sweeping sash ends.
In Stuart Jamieson’s party were Pat
Farquharson (fresh from Maoriland
snow revels) and Mary Hordern. Audrey
Childers wore a double ruffle as a sleeve
in her sapphire-blue satin frock. A
diamente strap did duty on the opposite
shoulder.
Mrs. Sverre Kaaten served orchids
with her wine-colored crepes. Berna-
dine Gilder, another snow enthusiast
who took the trip to Enzed, sashed her
flowery chiffons in green. The wife of
Government Tourist Bureau director
Lamble wore black and silver. In the
Stuart Jamieson group were Mrs. Venn
Wesche, Kate Ogilvie in black velvet,
the Hon. Peter Dawnay and Valentine
Adams. Ernst Skardarasy was there ; so
were Mrs. Ashleigh Davey, in white and
silver, Mrs. Dan Carroll and Mary
Lang, of Cooma.
Sydney is going to miss National Art
Gallery director Jimmy MacDonald. His
intimate knowledge of the art world
of Paris and New York sometimes
bubbles over into a stream of good
stories. He studied painting at the
famous Julian’s in Paris, at Colarossi’s
and at Whistler’s Academie Carmen.
Indeed, he and George Coates were
Whistler’s first pupils. After studying in
Paris Jimmy had a school of painting
in New York. This was on 17th-street,
and here he taught the sons and daugh-
ters of millionaires, and a few million-
aires themselves, how to draw and to
paint. Before coming to Sydney he was
art critic on Melbourne “Herald.’’ Now
he returns to that city of rich art be-
quests to direct its National Gallery.
Melbourne will also be the richer for
the pleasing millinery of his attractive
wife.
Beginning last Saturday with the Mal-
colm Sargent orchestral concert music
has swept over the city. This is Music
Week. Mrs. Ferrari Passmore, who each
year organises this seven days of melody,
must be pleased at the successful open-
ing of the floodgates of sound. The
Prince Edward Theatre, the Conserva-
torium, the Savoy, every city and subur-
ban church and choirs, soloists and in-
strumentalists are galvanised into action
showing what can be done with the scale.
To-night Verdi’s “Requiem” will be sung
in conjunction with orchestra in the
Town Hall, and Clement Hosking will
present his Folk-song Choir. On Satur-
day the ball which always ends this
Week will fill the Blaxland Galleries
with masked beauties and other thrills.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly is the president.
Mary Lang, of Cooma, has just pub-
lished a book of pleasant verse. It is her
second book, and its title is Tom Grog gin.
The publishers are Dent and Sons, and
there is a pencil sketch by Harold Abbott
showing the poet’s clear-cut features.
This photograph is by Montgomery
Dunn.
Lady Gowrie came to the Sargent sym-
phony concert on Saturday night. Her
frock was of vellum satin, her shoulder
cape glittered with jet. Besides a com-
pany of A.B.C. importants she had with
her the Lieut.-Commander Tyrwhitts.
Mrs. Tyrwhitt’s chiffons were patterned
in white and delphinium-blue. Mrs.
W. J. Cleary’s crepes held the mauves
of the wistaria. The concert was received
with tornado-like applause, and violinist
Ernest Llewellyn seemed quite over-
whelmed by his reception. At the end
of the Chausson work a laurel wreath
was pressed into his hand. Diffidence
forbade him to think it was for himself,
so he tried to pass it on to Dr. Sargent.
But the conductor (guessing grimly that
he also would be crowned) pressed the
wreath firmly back into the young
player’s hand.
The Philip Streets were among the lis-
teners so was the Alexander Gordon
lady. Her unusual frock was of black
velvet striped in silver. In the interval
she was kept busy describing the wedding
of her son to his Elizabeth Shannon.
Mary Hordern, Clara Butter (who wore
camellias in her hair and an exotic fur
wrap) and Marjorie Hambridge were
three good-looking girls. Beatrice
Tange’s grey chiffons were cloaked in
black velvet.
Miss Sarah Hynes, very blithe and
alert, arrived at her seventy-seventh
birthday party last week. This was, as
usual, held in the home of her old
friends Dr. George Armstrong and his
wife. Among those who found their
way out to Quiriang at Woollahra to
wish Miss Hynes many happy returns
were the Ernest Riddle, Allard, Hughes,
King and Storey ladies, Mrs. Stuart
Osborne, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. J. B.
Stevenson, Mrs. Harry Bundock and Mrs.
Rutledge. The guest of honor wore a
black silk frock and a hat with a small
veil that seemed to have hundreds and
thousands sifted over it. Colonels Bun-
dock and Rutledge escorted the bright
little M.B.E. to the tea table where the
ceremony of cutting the cake was per-
formed.
Joan Waddell had her twenty-first
birthday party on the harbor. It was
an evening cruise. The yacht was the
Fordyce Wheelers’ Valkyrie, into which
about 50 guests, all in yachting rig,
climbed. Captain and Mrs. J. U. P. Fitz-
Gerald were among them ; so were the
Earl of Ranfurly and Captain Ponsonby,
Dr. Rex Money and Noppy Wilkinson,
Suzanne Stogdale and Mrs. Alan
McGregor.
“Destination unknown, but will prob-
ably end up in Canberra’’ was the honey-
moon forecast of the Alexander
Gordons. Alexander, who is the only
son of former Justice Alexander Gordon
and his lady, married his Betty Shannon,
of Lismore, last Saturday. St. Stephen’s
kirk in Macquarie-street made the twain
one. The bride wore a tailored ensemble
of mushroom pink, the frock having a
swathed sash in fuchsia and blue tonings.
A family lunch party in Elizabeth Bay
House followed. Cousin C. M. C.
Shannon armed Betty to the altar.
Of love, and of love again, sang
Richard Crooks to his last audience in
Sydney. It was a matinee, and to every
man there were 15 women at least. The
Town Hall was filled to capacity, and
applause rose to tidal-wave heights when
the tenor asked baritone Robert Nichol-
son, who was sitting in front, to come up
on the platform and sing the duet
“Solenne in quest’ ora” from Verdi’s
“Forza del Destino.” Robert’s voice has
so impressed Richard Crooks that he has
written to his own teacher in New York
about him.
This was the tenor’s friendly way of
introducing the beginner to Sydney audi-
ences. While the young man was making
his speech at the end of the duet, Richard
was listening, peeping around the green
curtains at the end of the hall near the
artist’s room. One of the nicest things
so far that has happened to the young
man from Kalgoorlie befell in Adelaide.
One morning as he was walking out oi
the cathedral a messenger came up and
said, “Letter for you, Mr. Nicholson.”
He opened it, and found inside a 50-
pound note. No name, no word. That
note is the foundation-stone of his going-
away fund.
The Kanimbla was the lady of Darl-
ing Harbor last Thursday night. This
smart young ship might have been heiress
to Hatton Gardens, she blazed and scin-
tillated so gorgeously. She didn’t forget
her posy either, and was fragrant with
spring flowers. A ball in aid of the Ren-
wick Hospital for Babies instigated the
grandeur. There are some nice touches
about the ship’s furnishings: the hand of
cards painted on the backs of the chairs
in the cardrooms, the scenes woven into
the tapestry on the sides of the armchairs.
The guests could have either dancing or
deck games, or both.
The Lieutenant-Governor Streets were
at this moneyraiser, whose president was
the Hugh Poynter lady. Her graceful
frock was of black net and taffeta, with
which she wore pearl and diamond
ornaments. Mayoress Parkes was there
with her husband. The Minister for
Health came with Mrs. Fitzsimons. Mrs.
Harrie Vale and Mrs. A. Louison, trea-
surer and secretary respectively, were
two who worked well and dressed well.
There were about 900 dancers.


JOYCE LODGE RECITAL OF MODERN D^NCE
At the SAVOY THEATRE, Tuesday, 6th October, at 8.15 p.m.
Assisting Artist, ERIK THOMAS, Baritone
Music by Margaret Chalmers, Ronald Wilkinson, Antonio Sorgato
Plan at Paling s. Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- (plus tax). Group Concessions!
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6A>l’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Wo you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers ?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street.
Perth,
Western Australia.
Personal and Missing Friends.
PERCY CASHMAN, formerly of Wellington,
New Zealand, last heard of from Western Aus-
- 11 alia, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New zS
land.
OSBORNE.—HUGH LESLIE OSBORNE, a
son of Frank Osborne, deceased, and brother
of Lilian Mary Osborne, deceased/or anyone
knowing his present whereabouts, please com-
municate with the PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF NEW SOUTH WALFS
LIMITED, 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney R
will be for his benefit.
CHAMPAGNE
REIMS
SEUKCTBO 'o«Y
ViNTA&CS ESTASUSHBO ljBZ SHQLA «»
N.S.W. Agents:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
Among equestriennes present every
day at the Show was Lorna Embling,
who rode and nominated several of her
horses and kept an eye on her young
pupils. One of these children, making
her debut in the ring, was the Kingsley
Norrises’ Margaret, aged seven, who rode
Paddy, aged 22, the pony on which Miss
Embling won the first prize of her career.
Mrs. A. A. Laidlaw was there, and
another rider of great experience, Mrs.
H. A. Jackson, exhibited a string of
horses —her favorite, old Traff (who will
follow her into shops after ice-cream),
and several younger animals which she
bred herself.
Lily Wilkinson, of Diggers’ Rest, did
very well and worked harder than most
of the other riders, the number of horses
she rode and the number of fences she
cleared in three days constituting a
record. Anne McAuley and her Irish
hunter impressed the judges. Phyllis
Bray, who brought a string of horses
with her, will take back to Adelaide a
suitcase full of trophies and ribbons.
One of the most coveted honors she
acquired with the help of The Sailor
was the Garryowen Trophy for the most
perfect equestrienne in the Show. This
prize, which was won for the first two
years in succession by Kitty Sutherland,
is a memorial to Mrs. Violet Murrell and
her Garryowen, who lost their lives in a
stable fire.
Mr. and Mrs. Noble Pennell had suc-
cess with several of their joint nomina-
tions, and among the younger riders Jean
Pape and Joan Gentles did well. The last-
named is still at school at Lowther Hall.
An interesting personality whose nod
gets her past the guardian of the arena
gate is Mrs. Harold Bartram, who is re-
lated to racehorse-owner Alec Hunter.
Mrs. Bartram breeds and trains her own
horses. There are two Marys in the
family, daughter Mary, who won a prize
for the best girl rider under 12, and
Mary’s pony, Mary Kate, the second
name added only to avoid confusion.
Both Mrs. Bartram and Mary are advo-
cates of the white canvas gaiters so
popular with point-to-point riders
abroad.
Among well-known feminine dog ex-
hibitors was Mrs. Norman Mitchell, who
is just as interested now in her quaint
little griffons as she used to be in Alsa-
tians. From Adelaide Mrs. J. M. Help-
man brought several of her champion
pekes. Daughter Sheila, who shares her
mother’s hobby and has had some suc-
cess with chows, was recently seen with
the Gregan McMahon Players in “The
Crime at Blossoms.” Sheila’s brother,
Robert Helpman, is a dancer, at present
in London.
Dorothy Parker exhibited both horses
and dogs, and Mrs. Ken Moore also rang
the changes between canine and equine
interests.
Sir John Renwick, the English expert
who has been judging dogs and thorough-
bred horses at the Show, collected an
injured foot through a horse treading on
him and a mauled arm from the bite of
a greyhound. But Sir John has a great
sense of humor and nurses no black
thoughts about our pedigreed animals.
In the arena on most days his unconven-
tional raiment was a sky-blue coat, lemon
waistcoat, very tight brown jodhpurs
and either suede shoes or sandals. While
thus attired he caused excitement among
some children, who called out “Look
at the Pommy.” “That,” said Sir John,
“goes to show that Australian kids are
smart. Why, I might have been an
American out of a sideshow.”
Harry Peck, that good friend of all
woollybacks (he says sheep are endowed
with facial expressions as well as human
beings), was as full of life this year as
ever. He is a sheep steward of high repu-
tation. The passing of the years makes no
difference to the merry twinkle of his
very blue eyes, the trim cut of his snow-
white beard, the perfect tailoring of his
clothes and the impeccable shine of his
riding boots. Another well-known figure
at the Show, though he no longer offici-
ates in the centre of the arena, was
veteran Tom Robinson. Fine horsemen
“the Robinson boys” were considered in
the early days; among the best riders
in the Murchison (W.A.). Now at 76
veteran Tom spends his days very hap-
pily going the rounds of point-to-points
and country shows, where he still judges
horses and riders.
An engagement recently announced is
between Doris Moore (whose photo, is
by Jack Cato) and Allan Tregear, second
clerk assistant to the House of Reps.,
Canberra. Doris is the younger daugh-
ter of C. B. Moore, of Ivanhoe.
Her activities include the presidentship
of the P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Association
and secretary for the Vic. Links of
Empire, which society was introduced to
Victoria by Lady Somers.- Lady Hunt-
ingfield is president. Its influences are
far-reaching. Pen-friends are found for
members (grown-ups and children) in
whatever part of the Empire interests
the would-be correspondent.
What must be something like a record
for an all-day golf field was the A.I.F.
battle with Colonel Bogey at Eastern last
week. Though our dawn to dusk has a
fair span in late September, the links
couldn’t carry the 621 entries, and the
overflow got their game over the road
on the Doncaster public links. Some bat-
talions thought it wasn’t worth while
going to bed the night before and
arrived at the clubhouse from midnight
onwards in all manner of clothes from
tails and white ties to golf togs and dress-
ing-gowns. Some brought shaving tackle,
others tin helmets which usually adorn
smoking dens at home.
The advance guard stormed the first
tee in fours at 5.30 a.m., hitting off with
the aid of car headlights and their own
sense of hearing. No one was seriously
wounded from the balls of shock troops
in the rear. Innumerable balls were lost,
and when the ammunition of some
patrols got low they did sharpshooting
with gumnuts at the enemy on the next
fairway. Nosebags of hot dogs were
cached in several bunkers, and canteens
placed in strategical positions enabled the
troops to keep their insides warm. It
was warfare up to date. Men were seen
flat on their chests keeping watch on hill-
tops, telephones were hidden in trees, and
loudspeakers reverberated with “We Are
the King’s Navee,” “Mademoiselle from
Armentieres” and other war-time classics.
Three players, L. W. Scholfield, L. C.
McFarland and R. Craig, tied for first
place by being all square. Several com-
petitions were run in conjunction with
the big event, but it took days to dis-
cover who won them owing to the deep
obscurity of many of the card-markings.
The Independent Hall in Collins-street
was so severely taxed on the first day
of the A.W.N.L. annual conference that
the doorkeeper had to say “house full”
to late arrivals. Declaring the conference
open, Mr. Lyons credited most of the
good things of the world to women and
lamented that women of foreign
countries did not take such an active part
in public affairs as did their Australian
sisters. “Dictators —at least male dic-
tators”—he added, “could not flourish in
a country full of powerful women’s
movements.”
On the second day of the conference
Mrs. O. Bruce delivered an address on
“Women of China.” On the final day
Senator Brennan deplored the remodel-
ling of the Legislative Council. Sum-
maries of resolutions passed at the con-
ference: (l) Women be appointed to the
Housing Board working for Fishermen’s
Bend homes and Slum Abolition League ;
(2) compulsory technical education for
prospective wage-earners over school age ;
(3) school-leaving age be raised; (4)
cheaper ground rent for country tele-
phones; (5) price of fish ought to be
brought down; (6) reaffirmation of faith
in the League of Nations in spite of its
failure.
Among congress parties was a dinner
at the Wattle and an afternoon reception
at the A.W.N.L. clubrooms. Prominent
at the latter gathering were Mrs. William
Knox; Miss E. Johnson, Mrs. J. C. Traill,
Mrs. A. Hug, Mrs. W. C. Porteous and
Mrs. Austin Embling.
Herewith a Broothorn photograph of
Magda Baucia, who this week in “Joanna”
makes her debut behind the footlights
as singing flower-girl Liese. Magda,
who is still in her teens, was born in
Italy of Italian parentage and came to
Australia as a child. She is studying at
the Conservatorium, and if her highest
hopes are realised will have a stage
career.
Last week the Basil Buller Murphys
were to be found not at Lordello, Mel-
bourne, but at Lordello, Adelaide, the
reason being the S.A. meetings of the
Law Council of Australia. The Adel-
aide Lordello is practically empty of
furniture, for Mrs. Murphy at the time of
her marriage transferred most of her
possessions to Melbourne. Still, 10 legal
guests were accommodated at the Adel-
aide place.
With a plus value of wives and chil-
dren a large percentage of the Twenty
Painters was present at the opening of
their exhibition at the Athenaeum. R.
McCann was accompanied by his wife,
who exhibits as Margery Withers.
Noticed also were Mrs. G. Hartrick
(Rose Walker to her water-colors), the
John Farmers (she, among paints and
palettes, is known as P. Hurry), A. M. E.
Bale, Will Rowell and Mr. and Mrs.
John Rowell. Arnold Shore in the
briefest possible speech introduced
Harold Gengoult Smith, who performed
the opening. Afterwards several men
of classical tastes and wide education
were noticed lost in deep thought, the
reason being that, although they had
their congratulations ready for friend
Gengoult on his newly-acquired parent-
hood, they couldn’t remember in the cor-
rect order the six names of the all-impor-
tant Miss Smith.
It was bad luck that Lord Sempill
could not make the trip to Australia
in his own new monoplane; all his
friends were prepared to give him a most
genial welcome. Designer of the machine
F. F. Crocombe, Timothy Wood (the
pilot who can take off from a picket
fence), “sparks” C. P. J. Gilroy and
engineer L. Davis, all on their first visit
to this country, made the best of their
few days on solid Australian earth. Mr.
Crocombe and Tim Wood, both excel-
lent dancers with a good repertoire of
intricate steps, enjoyed themselves im-
mensely at the Aero Club Ball, where
they were the guests of Captain and
Mrs. Ernest Jones. These two English-
men are tall, dark, good-looking and
married. The quartet aboard the mono-
plane travelled with very little luggage,
for every available inch of the big
machine was reserved for petrol. They
are all heavy cigarette smokers, and are
loud in their praises of some brands of
Australian cigarettes. While flying their
principal means of sustenance is black
coffee.
Dr. Felix Myers is so interested in
Rupert Bunny’s pictures that his arrival
to declare the show open was his fourth
visit to the exhibition. The artist intro-
duced Dr. Myers, who, declaring him-
self to be shorter both mentally and
physically than his friend Bunny,
mounted a Persian-rugged throne to de-
liver his oration. The gist of it was a
brief appreciation of Bunny’s art, rounded
off with a Chinese quotation, “To the
making of beautiful things there go
thoughts that are greater than speech.”
Heads cruising above the rest of the
throng belonged to Bunny and to etcher
William Hunter. Others on a more or
less average level denoted the presence
of George Elliott, Sybil Craig and her
mother, Mrs. C. R. Duncan, Prof. Gunn
and Sonia Revid. John Longstaff’s visit
was brief ; he had to go off to the stormy
meeting of the Gallery trustees, called to
discuss the appointment of the Gallery
director.


JOYOUS DAYS IN OLD
QUEBEC
f«
i m a
.-r ~ ' .
1
m
Mm whp.
mm
On YOUR Way to . . .
EUROPE
The only remaining walled medi-
eval city in the new world where old
customs still prevail . . . winding,
steep cobbled streets and just
around the corner is the new
modern city. Here Canadian Pacific
welcomes you to Chateau Frontenac
above the Ramparts scene of
gaiety, sports and luxurious Hotel
life. You must see Quebec. Get
literature and details now
from any Tourist Booking Agency
or
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 WILLIAM STREET - - MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - - - - SYDNEY
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1633 of 1936. mmT
BETWEEN KENNETH THOMAS BURI
And'ULA PEARL BURT Respondent.
TO LILA PEARL BURT (formerly Lila Pearl
Brown) formerly of Broken Hill in the
State of New South Wales Married
TAKE I 'NOTICE that the said KENNETH
THOMAS BURT has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse wil-
fully deserted him and without any such cause
or excuse left him continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards AND 1 AKfc
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
aopearance to this suit at the proper othce
of this Honorable Court on or befoie the
Twenty-second day of December Oncthousand
nine hundred and thirty-six AND in he
event of your not so doing within ;thetime
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heaid and d t -
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitors I tee
° f DATED this Twenty-second day of Septem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar, .^ cr , XT
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce
JOHN R. EDWARDS, SON & BROWN,
Solicitors for Petitioner, 281 Argent Street,
Rroken Hill N.S.W.; by their agents, CUR-
TISS, DEZARNAULDS & EDWARDS, Solici-
tors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW :
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 353 of 1936. . .
BE Xd EN A^H A 0 C N E V AD F^Si AK wriffiN^
to e *thompson.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
GRACE ADA DOAK has filed her petition in
the Supreme Court of New South Wales pray;
ing for a divorce from, her husband ANTHONY
FRANK WISEMAN DOAK on the ground of
his adultery with you She alleges that he com-
mitted adultery with .you between the Twenty-,
seventh day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and the Tenth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and thirty
six at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
This notice is given to you so that yo)i may.
have an opportunity to apply to the Court to
be let in to defend the charge if you so desne
A copy of this petition may be obtained at the
office of MESSRS. A. C. BOYLE & CO.,
Solicitors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney, free of
charge on application by you.
DATED this 22nd day of Septembei, 1936.
For the Registrar
(1.5.) e. l. Dickson,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. B. PHILLIPS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Kendal Street, Cowra.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 632 of 1936.
BETWEEN HARRIET AMY DAVIS formerly
Harriet Amy Dawes Petitioner
And WILLIAM CHARLES DAVIS Re-
spondent. „ _
TO WILLIAM CHARLES DAVIS late of 601
Murray Street Perth Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HARRIET
AMY DAVIS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Eleventh day of December 1936 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of September,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
REUBEN T. J. DAWES, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, London Bank Chambers, 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1075 of 1936. „ X „_ T
BETWEEN CEIARLES EDWARD MOREN
Petitioner _ , _
And ELLEN MARION MOREN Re-
spondent.
TO ELLEN MARION MOREN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHARLES
EDWARD MOREN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and has
applied for a dissolution of his marriage to you
the said ELLEN MARION. MOREN on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Eleventh day of De-
cember One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of September,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. R. TRACEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1368 of 1936.
BETWEEN CATHERINE MAY WATTERS
And 10 NORMAN EDWARD WATTERS
Respondent.
TO NORMAN EDWARD WATTERS late
of Rockdale.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
MAY WATTERS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Fifteenth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be obtained from the undersigned
free of charge. „ ' , . ..
DATED this 18th day of September in the
year One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. I. ORMSBY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
• SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 342 of 1936.
BETWEEN EDITH CATHERINE DORRINO-
TON Petitioner
And ERNEST VICTOR DORRINGTON
TO ERNEST* 1 VICTOR DORRINGTON late
of Tamworth. . n , T n
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDI lit
CATHERINE DORRINGTON has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
fust cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Fifteenth day of De-
cember One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
obtained from the undersigned free of charge-
DATED this 18th day of September in the
year One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. I. ORMSBY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Boys from the Swan Orphanage raised
their voices in choral work when Jill,
only daughter of the George Manns, of
Middle Swan, was married to Garth
Brook, of Guildford. The old-world
Church of St. Mary in the Swan dis-
trict was massed with lilies and spring
flowers, and the bride swept magnolia
satins down the aisle. Three little flower
girls, Margaret Ferguson and Jean and
Mena Scott, followed, set about with
primrose-pleated georgettes and carrying
baskets of golden flowers. ’Maid Evie
Whiteman brought up the rear with pink
carnations and gladioli held before eau-
de-nil chiffons. Rejoicings were at the
Midland Junction Town Hall.
Wembley Downs golfers turned their
steps to the Masonic Hall, Subiaco,
where they trod a measure in a some-
what congested fairway. Mrs. S. Law’s
sherry flat crepes were in the dance com-
mittee chair, committee-woman Mrs. R.
Christie sliced daffodil satin with a deep
violet sash, Hope Brown grew some
goldy-red flowers on her earth-brown
ninons, a shower of hail spots fell on
Rita Lloyd’s snow-white nets, and Mrs.
Kito wove a mushroom lace web over
pink satin.
For her marriage to lan Macquarie at
St. Mary’s, West Perth, Elvie Owen
chose an all-blue outfit. Her embossed
cloque was cut period fashion, the match-
ing net veil was anchored with silver
leaves and she carried a sheaf of blue-
tinted lilies. Jean Whitby’s attendant
frock of blossom pink matt crepe was
self striped, furbished with satin and
topped by a gold lame halo. Mrs. C. A.
Owen scattered metal trimmings on black
velvet for the aftermath at the R.A.C.
reception-rooms.
Knight Talbot Hobbs opened the
Society of Arts exhibition at Newspaper
House Art Gallery. The Philpots, Arthur
and Ernest, were well represented, J. L.
Heap and E. St. Clair Coghill gained
more favor with landscapes than with
portraits, Gordon Marwood had a
coterie of admirers, and there were
several newcomers who attracted atten-
tion.
Billie Hunter was girt with traditional
white when she went into double harness
with Charles Embury. Her filmy white
lace frothed from long loose sleeves
down to a semicircular train, clouded
with a foam of white tulle.
Singer Dorothy Helmrich was lioness
at several parties during her brief stay
in Perth. Mrs. Cecil Mason, with forget-
me-nots pinned to her air-force blue
cashmere frock, piloted the navy-tailored
guest of honor through her flower-
massed flat at a morning-tea. Dr. and
Mrs. Ralph Crisp, she with a matching
quilted cape over her shrimp-pink georg-
ettes, took the songbird to a post-con-
cert supper at their home in West Perth,
where they gathered a host of musically-
inclined. Miss Helmrich went along in
her recital frock of brocaded gold lame
wrought with coral.
Girl Guides are busy brushing up their
uniforms for the coming-of-age celebra-
tions. The two handfuls of Eastern
States visitors who have arrived to take
part in the doings were welcomed at the
Council Chambers, where hostess Mrs.
E, L. Barrett poured morning-tea in
neat reseda-green cloque. The afternoon
was given over to a tea served by State
Commissioner Mrs. Ernest Lee Steerc,
who rallied a host of uniformed asso-
ciates at her home in Mount-street.
While Tom Male was starring at a
farewell - to - bachelorhood party, his
fiancee, Flo Broadhurst, parked her black
velvets in the box seat at a bridge party
given by Mrs. MacDonald Smith. Silver
flecks sparkled on the leaf-green velvets
worn by the hostess.
Lieut. W. Calder, R.A.N., who has
been lent to the British Navy for the
last four years, flew to the north-west
immediately on his arrival in W.A. and
booked a matrimonial date with
Gretchen, second daughter of the Har-
court Harpers, of Guildford.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
We have long had the reputation of
being the garden city, but Adelaide sur-
passed itself with floral displays in the
pageant. The crowd was a record one
—200,000, out of which, according to
the St. John Ambulance officials, 400
collapsed in faints. The first-prize float,
“Queen Adelaide,” was designed by
Councillor Irwin, and carried out under
the supervision of the City Engineer, W.
C. D. Veale. Mrs. Irwin impersonated
Queen Adelaide. Her costume was
copied exactly from a picture of the
Queen, and her maids of honor wore
frocks exact replicas of the period. They
were the daughters of officials and
members of the City Council, and in-
cluded Katherine Bonython, Rosemary
Barrett, Shirley Pelham, Joan Sims,
Dorothea Veale and Betty Diamond.
Second prize went to “Taj Mahal,” made
to scale in cream and silver. As the
float passed down the street, white doves
fluttered out of the windows.
The pretty room of the Lady Mayoress
was gay with mixed flowers when the
Y.W.C.A. Conference delegates were
entertained by the city. Mrs. Haslam, as
president of the Adelaide Y.W.C.A.,
thanked Lord Mayor Cain for giving the
delegates a civic reception. Miss J.
Laud, a member of the Glasgow
Y.W.C.A., and Miss L. M. Fowler, a
member of the world council of the
Y.W.C.A., were among the guests.
Three hundred pioneers were enter-
tained at tea by the Floral Festival Com-
mittee of the Centennial Council in the
Botanic Gardens. The ladies held pride
of place as regards age. Mrs. Currie,
just a year short of a century, is as chirpy
as a cricket, and trotted round renewing
old friendships. Mrs. Emma J. Loader
(formerly Lloyd) came next at 94 ; she’s
first co<usin to Britain’s Lloyd George.
Oldest man was William Pritchard, 98.
Seventy years ago he built the house he
now lives in. The Governor and Lady
Dugan attended the party informally. As
the pioneers arrived the men were each
decojated with a buttonhole and the
ladies received floral sprays.
The Tivoli Theatre was crowded for
the first performance of the historical
pageant “Heritage,” which is entirely an
Adelaide production, the dialogue by
Elinor Walker and Heather Geil, the
music by Dr. Harold Davies, John
Horner, Brewster Jones and Miriam
Hyde. Miss Hyde was at the piano and
Horner conducted the orchestra. The
frocking of the pageant was designed
by Thelma Thomas. Sheila Martin, as
the Spirit of South Australia, had the
leading role, explaining each scene prior
to its presentation. Her powder-blue
chiffon draperies were veiled in violet
tulle, and the front of her bodice was
embroidered in gold with the rising sun.
Mrs. Compton Trew, with'a band of
helpers, carried out the stupendous job
of making costumes for 500 performers.
Mrs. Lance Lewis was responsible for
the wonderful headdresses and floral
frocks. The Blue Orchids, with long,
pale-blue wired petals curling up over
mauve centres, were very charming ; also
the Spider Orchids of pale-green, .with
carmine centres. These, with Dorothy
Slane as solo dancer, performed a ballet.
Another pretty floral effort was the girls
representing orange blossom with long
white satin petals over green, and petals
curling up from the corsage. The wine
industry was portrayed by a huge wine-
glass in which Mrs. Arthur Conrad sat
with arms extended, dangling huge
bunches of purple glass grapes. The
ballet, who danced round, wore long
skirts of carmine chiffon veiled in purple
tulle, the bodice of golden leaves. Mrs.
H. H. Dutton, of Anlaby, looked beauti-
ful as Britannia. Mrs. J. G. Duncan
Hughes represented Queen Adelaide as
a cameo, the costume accurately copied
from a picture at the Town Hall.
The Rotary visitors concluded their
conference with a ball at the Palais
Royal, preceded by numerous dinner
and cocktail parties. The guests were
received by the Norman Taylors and
A. E. W. Shorts. Lord Mayor Cain and
the Lady Mayoress were present, Mrs.
Dunstan in petunia chiffon with frills on
the skirt.
TASMANIA.
The -firm of Brownell Bros, held its
centenary celebrations at the City Hall,
and all feminine Hobart, with a fair per-
centage of males, flocked to the elabor-
ately staged fashion parade. Mannequins
from the mainland were helped by local
girls. The show, produced by J. F.
Dalton, with Mrs. Molly Broadbent as
commutator, started with a display of
frockings of a century ago and brought
things sartorial up to the very latest in
bathing suits and beach pyjamas.
The committee of the Alexandra Hos-
pital ran a big show in aid of the insti-
tution’s mothers and babies at the Town
Hall. About 90 bridge-tables were
taken for the afternoon and evening.
The I,ord Mayor’s courtroom, Mayor-
ess’s parlor, vestibule and a smaller room
were all taken up, some with tables, some
with refreshments. Sideshows helped to
rake in the shekels.
Lady Clark attended the Shiplovers’
Society’s meeting, when Dr. W. L.
Crowther gave an entertaining lecture on
the old days of seafaring in Tasmanian
waters.
The Amateur Horticultural Society’s
bulb show in the City Hall was not quite
up to standard, owing to the drought
in the earlier part of the spring ; still,
some lovely blooms were on view. Chief
prizewinners-were Radcliffe (Sandy Bay)
and Jackson (Dover).
The Colin Newtons have been enter-
tained before starting for the Defence
Department job in W.A. to which C.N.
has been transferred. Mrs. Alan Crisp
gave a cocktail-party at her home, Mrs.
David Harvey ran a tennis-party for
Mrs. Newton and fellow-members of her
tennis club. Mrs. Newton’s return party
to say farewell was given at Hadley’s.
Mrs. Arthur Bennett took her beloved
hunter V.C. to Adelaide Show, and m-
tends to compete at Melbourne NUow
come back to the Spec or e
Hobart and Launceston shows. Mie nas
been riding for over 50 years, and nas
won endless trophies. , ,
Captain J. R. Johnson, Royal Weisn
Fusiliers, has been appointed AdJ.C. to
the Governor, and is bringing his wite
with him to Hobart. She is a daughter
of Admiral Sir Roger Keyes.


Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
'“The Jiiacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission JKree
//
m
MTMJWCmi
\JSIPZim
TRADE FA&S
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
The world’s trading centre. More than 8,000
manufacturers from 25 countries exhibit
practically every manufactured article . . .
the newest textiles, novelties, labor-saving
devices, etc., at most attractive prices.
COMMENCES FEB. 28, 1937.
You’ll see, also, the latest advertising and mer-
chandising ideas . . . ideas that will help to sell
the goods you buy. Join the 200,000 buyers
from all over the world who go to Leipzig twice
each year.
Information (including Travel Marks and A ski Trading
Marks) available from LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com-
missioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair;
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, Challis House.
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
0. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street,
G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
11. C. ITTEIiSIIAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
About two years ago The Bulletin
suggested W. P. Payne, chairman of the
Queensland Land Board, as the right
man to report on Northern Territory
affairs. He is now to be appointed.
Payne is a large, unobtrusive Queens-
lander who took over Land Board
affairs when pastoral lessees were in an
almost constant state of rebellion and
scarcely a Parliamentary session went
by without the passage of doubtful addi-
tions to the State’s land laws. In a few
months he had practically succeeded in
divorcing land from political administra-
tion. The Land Act was reorganised,
major grievances were met, unpayable
properties were extended into living
areas. During recent years of drought
he treated the central western men with
leniency. He was a member of the
Commonwealth Wool Inquiry commis-
sion a few years ago, and the wiping
out of prickly-pear was largely his work.
An eccentric departmental head, Payne
—when he toured the world a couple of
years ago he paid his own expenses.
* # # *
“Maski Die Finish”: As a motor-
driver with 30 years’ experience, I have
been intrigued this last year with the
possibilities of the Diesel as a motor-
car engine. But I never realised its full
advantages until I picked up my “Rabaul
Times” this week and read:
AILSA CRAIG DIESELS.
Simplest of All.
Almost Nigger Proof.
It would take a Scotch firm to think of
a thing like that. But the Scotch were
always optimists. It was a Scottish-Aus-
tralian Attorney-General who expected
Mr. Egon Kisch to understand Gaelic.
“Nothung”: Here’s another
example of what Aussies will do.
A Mackay (Q.) farmer died a few
months before harvest. The
widow, with her two children, was
left in a difficult position. Mills are now
crushing, and neighbors and the em-
ployees organised a working bee. Their
wives furnished tucker and refreshments.
As a proof of the way they worked,
56 men, with 19 motor-lorries, in 12
hours cut and cleared a whole crop of
150 tons, loaded 58 railway trucks and
nine lorries, and thought it all “just a
good turn.” Incidentally, it is being
mooted in northern towns that a cane-
cutting competition be added to the
attractions of local shows.
“Zedo”: How we Queenslanders waste
our resources is illustrated in complaints
from fertile (N.Q.) districts. Since there
has been an orgy of road and rail build-
ing, tens of thousands of acres have
been ruthlessly cleared of valuable
scrub. Settlers, allowed, as usual, about
five times as much Crown land as they
can efficiently farm, operate on the best
patches and leave the rest to the weeds.
So lantana is spreading alarmingly—in
some places it is as thick as prickly-pear
used to be at Dulacca. Wild raspberry
is on the way to becoming a serious pest.
Around Malanda, wild tobacco is almost
as much a nuisance as the lantana is
elsewhere, and there are other spots
where guava grows in a luxurious forest.
* * * *
“Vante”: Brisbane City Council re-
cently announced that it would charge
the P.M.G.’s Department rental for
space occupied by posting boxes. Cor-
bett, Deputy Director of Posts and Tele-
graphs, laughed; the council, he said,
could never collect. The council
dropped the idea, but immediately
thought out a new one —they would
charge for space allotted to public tele-
phone booths. How W. S. Gilbert would
have loved our bumbles’ ways.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Another doctor factory comes
into existence next month when the in-
augural lecture of Queensland Univer-
sity’s new medical faculty will be deliv-
ered by Professor Wilkinson. A day
later Dr. H. K. Lee will open the Wil-
liam MacGregor Physiology School. At
the present rate of enrolment, there will
be a regular 240 students by the time
the first batch take their degrees in 1940.
* * % *
“Kaloa”: When a few Japs were scup-
pered at Caledon Bay (N.T.), the
matter was discussed for months by our
press and Parliament. When one of
the natives involved seemed in danger
of the rope, there was a justified rush
to save him. Yet' in New Guinea more
than 30 natives have been hanged within
“Before I get any cacterblastus, ma, I'd like to be sure it Wont ’urt
the orchard.”
20 months with scarcely a paragraph
about them, and forays on the edge of
uncontrolled areas hardly generate a
stick of type even in the local news-
paper. A month ago there was an
attack on police boys by natives outside
Madang about which not a word
appeared in the Australian press. There
is enough news in New Guinea to justify
big Australian syndicates having a per-
manent man at Rabaul.
s= * * -t
“Gain”: New Guinea is the first part
of Australian-controlled territory to have
coins which acknowledge King Edward
VIII. The new pennies bear Edward’s
cipher, but there is no room for his
head, as each coin has a hole in the
middle, so that it can be carried on a
string. This is ancient practice among
the guileless niggers, who had a cur-
rency of their own long before the white
man came. It ranged from tambu
strings, which could be kept in safety
round the neck, to the coins of Nakanai,
which varied from something like a
halo to hoops which stood more than
man high. An old-time coon pinching
a quid out of the village till would have
looked like an ant rolling a water wheel.
* * $ *
“Comet”: Queensland’s wheat crop
this year may be a record one. The
335,000 acres planted represented an in-
crease of 35,000 acres. The crop should
yield between 4,000,000 and 5,000,000
bushels, compared with 2,500,000 last
year, and at present looks well enough
to reach the 5,000,000 mark.
“Attack Creek”: The old prospector,
after years of Territory battling, struck
it rich on the Tennant, sold one of his
claims for four figures and disappeared
into the southern haze towards Adelaide.
Three months later a battered form stag-
gered off the ’Ghan at the Alice, and
asked the nearest inhabitant about “the
chances of a doss.” Recognising the
late owner of Golconda (despite the fact
that his whiskers were gone), the local
escorted the poor old man, the pockets
of whose new suit held not a sou, to his
hut, and gave him a couple of rums. The
traveller sank into a weary slumber.
While he slept and his host cogitated on
his sad condition, a telegram arrived
from the Tennant: “Tell old George we
got an offer for his other claim stop
Five thousand quid. Bill.” Feeling like
the Good Samaritan, the receiver woke
old George and pushed the wire under
his nose with a shout of jubilation.
George took a full minute to get the
import of the news, then his hands began
to shake and a look of fear came into
his eyes. “Say, Ben,” he said pleadingly,
“don’t tell me I got to go through all
this agen!”
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The party aboard the Manoora for the
Social Service League was a huge success.
Over 600 people climbed the gangways,
to play bridge or listen to the music
arranged by Mrs. A. A. Fullerton. Lady
Mayoress Jones and Mrs. Forgan Smith
were there; also Mrs. Percy Pease, who
had done a lot of the preliminary spade-
work for the shivoo.
St. John’s Cathedral saw the wedding
of solicitor Leo Catt and Hazel Forbes,
with Mrs. George A. Regan matron of
honor.
Music Week concluded on Tuesday
night, when Dr. Malcolm Sargent con-
ducted a combined orchestra. The
“drive,” or whatever it was, included a
week of song and instrumental music in
all the leading cafes, Brisbane’s best-
known artists helping.
La Meri got off the Kyogle mail with
plainly-dressed hair, a little woollen suit
and flat-heeled shoes —quite unlike the
flashing eyed senorita one had pictured.
The president and members of the
Queensland Dancing Society met her,
and presented her with a sun of gleam-
ing yellow flowers. Charles Dearden,
who had met the lady when touring with
the Westminster Glee Singers, also was
on the platform.
Pauline Row carried a bouquet of red
roses which contrasted vividly with her
gown and frothy-white veil when she
married Dr. Athol Quayle at St. John’s
Cathedral. Jessie Mitchell, the only
bridesmaid, was in gipsy red, with a
floral wreath in red and white. The
reception was at Rowe’s, where Dr. and
Mrs. E. R. Row received. The honey-
moon is being spent in the south, and
Dr. and Mrs. Quayle will be in Sydney
for the marriage of Dr. Peter Row, now
on his way from England in the Mooltan,
to Dr. Helen Maud Whiddon on October
7. Dr. Whiddon, who was on the staff of
the Brisbane General Hospital, has many
friends here.
The Italia-Australian line
lent the Viminale for a dance
in aid of the St. Vincent de
Paul appeal. There was bridge
for non-dancers, and some-
thing unusual in the way of
decorations. Dozens of parties
were arranged.
Johnny Griffith came smiling into Bris-
bane to stage-manage the National
Military Band concert under the auspices
of the A.B.C. He brought news of many
old friends—Amy and Eileen Castles,
Pauline Bindley and other artists who
once toured Queensland under his
management.
Tudor Rose Day, in aid of
the Bush Children’s Health
Scheme, brought hurrying folks
from every suburb, with great
armfuls of roses and other gay
spring flowers. St. James
Theatre management, where “Tudor
Rose” was about to make its Brisbane
debut, gave the expenses of the day, so
that every rose sold was a clear 6d. profit.
Another of the gradually dwindling
army of the Old Contemptibles of Bris-
bane answered his last call when C. J.
Ennor died. For over 23 years he served
with the R.A.M.C., and first saw service
in China. He was transferred to India,
went from there to South Africa, then
to Ireland. In 1914 he enlisted in time
for Mons, and the close of the war found
him a regimental sergeant-major with
several decorations, including the meri-
torious service medal. He came to Bris-
bane in 1926, and for some years has
been an employee of the City Council.
Joan and Elspeth McLeod, of Terrica,
came home in the Mongolia. Joan has
been away for 18 months, and visited
South Africa, Europe and England.
After the jubilee celebrations, sister
Elspeth joined her, and they spent a lot
of time visiting friends in various
counties.
A huge bridge party—the largest Bris-
bane has seen —was staged at the
Trocadero to help funds of the Legacy
Club. Geoffrey Ward was president of
the committee.
The Little Cinema Players staged
Barrie’s “Mary Rose” at the Princess
Theatre, and Moya Connolly, in the
name part, and Reg Goss, as the Digger,
did fine work. A fine show, and if Moya
Connolly goes on as she is doing she
should achieve stardom.


Vs
- X
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 2-7, 3/6, -24, 4/6,
40 g/-: 6A7. 7/6; CB7, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOYAL, ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ILD
1936 A.V.C.
PEjXTA-GRID FOUR,
£6/5/-.
RADIO NEWS
IMAGE INTERFERENCE.
MANUFACTURERS TO BLAME.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
. In the last year or so reception on the
19-metre broadcast band by dual-wave
receiver and long-distance radio-tele-
, , . ~ 1 ,
phony by amateurs using the 14,000-
J4,400kc. allotment have become very
popular. Recently city radio dealers
have demonstrated dual-wave receivers
on the exceptionally strong transmissions
from German 19-metre stations during
afternoons. It is just at this time that
Australian amateurs have two-way
’phone conversations with Americans or
Europeans. Listeners—dealers among
them—have ’phoned experimenters to
ask why they were off wave-length and
on top of the German station. One
experimenter retorted: “This station
is nowhere near the commercial 19-
metre broadcast band. It is crystal con-
trolled within the 14mc. band limits.”
Herein lies a defect not apparent to
the non-technical. If a superhet receiver
is used on the short-wave bands, without
any form of pre-selection, the image (or
ghost) signal of any station within the
tuning range will appear additionally,
The separation between the correct and
image signal is the frequency difference
of the I.F. ; around 460 kc. in the case
of the present-day superhet. Thus, with
receivers that have no provision for
image suppression, the amateur ’phones
on the 20-metre band are “ghosted”
around 19 metres. If an amateur sta-
tion is relatively close to such a receiver,
the apparent interference will be very
considerable.
This is not the fault of the amateur.
Sooner or later something will have to be
done to improve dual-wave superhets.
The plain mixer input kind will become
unpopular as short-wave reception in-
creases in popularity. If an amateur
transmitter is responsible for interfer-
ence on a receiver working on the broad-
cast range between 200 and 600 metres,
he takes steps to eliminate such trouble,
which in nine cases out of ten is caused
by an inselective receiver. The broad-
cast listener is in the majority, and the
amateur is therefore expected to play-
second fiddle. Co-operation between the
affected parties usually results in a
remedy being found. But double-spot-
ting on short waves is a horse of a very
different color, and if people lay the
blame on an amateur doorstep they are
at the worng door.
D. B. K.
Ignition Interference.
“Wireless World” (England) mentions
a new Marconi appliance to suppress
ignition interference in car radio. In the
past the problem has been tackled in
various ways, such as entire screening
of the radio apparatus, and, more com-
monly, the fitting of “suppressors” in the
ignition leads to the motor. Opinion is
somewhat divided as to whether the use
of such suppressor resistors is detri-
mental to the efficiency of the spark or
not. In most cases it makes little differ-
ence, since there is an ample margin of
energy in hand, but the fact remains that
a high resistance must inevitably absorb
some of the sparking power. As an
alternative, the Marconi Co. proposes to
use high-frequency rectifiers of the
copper-oxide or similar type. These arc
connected in the ignition leads in the
proper sense to permit the initial cur-
rent to pass, whilst rectifying, or block-
ing out the reverse surges of H.F. current
which are the source of trouble. The
illustration shows the application of the
patent. One rectifier K is placed close
Illustrating the use of copper-
oxide rectifiers in place of re-
sistors for ignition interfer-
ence suppression.
to the spark-plug S, and a second recti-
fier K 1 is inserted equally close to the
distributor D. The arrangement is
claimed to give substantial relief with-
out screening, but it follows that ade-
quate screening will be even more effec-
live additionally. The effective D.C. re-
sistance of the rectifiers is less than that
of the normal suppressor resistor widely
used at present.
Companion Portable.
As was expected with such a simple
portable this receiver, described B.
5/ 8/’36, has proved very popular. Since
building the original the writer has tried
the effect of a tetrode detector in place
of the 30, and the result is a marked
improvement in sensitivity and audio
gain. A 49 is used, similarly to the audio
sta B e > with control B rid and screen grids
d A ,00025mfd. grid condenser
b
and 2meg. leak are included in the grid
circuit, and the screen (reversed CG) is
fed at nine volts. The plate has the full
18 volts. No alterations are necessary
to coils or tuning arrangements, and the
tetrode detector is well worth while. It
involves only a slightly-increased A bat-
tery drain. Two Mullard PMIDG
valves were found to give results equally
as good as the type 49's. With the in-
creased sensitivity, more satisfactory
short-wave reception is obtained, results
comparing favorably with those from
much more comprehensive receivers.
D. B. K.
Especially for Country Readers.
Reference has been made on this
page to the new midget battery-
valves of British “HIVAC” make.
These two-volt valves, taking only
.06 ampere on the filament, and so
diminutive that several of them
can be carried in a cigarette-case,
are now available in Australia. In
view of this, a highly-efffcient little
portable receiver using such valves
is to be described in an early issue.
This will be the Bush Com-
panion, a two-valve broadcast
receiver small enough to fit in an
overcoat pocket, yet extremely sen-
sitive. The price of parts complete
is below £5.
What’s What in Radio.
Radio licenses for the Commonwealth
showed a total of 852,399 (broadcast,
848,973 ; experimental, 1555; free
licenses to blind persons, 1871) on
31/8/’36.
* * * *
Experiments carried out in Kent (Eng-
land) show that ultra-short-wave trans-
mitters form useful links between mine
heads and underground workings. A
wave-length of 4.5 metres was used in
these tests, and two-way telephonic com-
munication was conducted from a depth
of 2160 ft. It was also found possible
to hold conversations between the shaft
bottom and workers situated 2000 ft. dis-
tant in a remote part of the workings.
Apparatus used weighed only 151 b.
All Round the Dial.
The 8.8. C. has discovered yet_ another
Australian voice, that of Jessie King
(contralto), who is broadcasting with the
Gershom Parkington trio. She was born
on a Queensland sheep station, studied
at Melba Con. under Mary Campbell,
and received personal lessons from
Melba, who often visited the Con. For
a while Miss King lived in Christchurch,
M.L., where she broadcast from 3YA,
and later in Canada. In Vienna, where
she afterwards studied and sang, she did
a considerable amount of broadcasting.
'i' •«' *i* '**
The A.B.G announces the appoint-
ment of Robert McCall as programme
editor as from October 12. He will work
in collaboration with Dr. Keith Barry,
Federal controller of programmes, will
supervise the purchase of recordings by
the State branches and select recordings
of major works for a Federal record
library. McCall, who formerly was sales
manager of the Columbia Graphophone
Co. of Australia, has been closely asso-
ciated with broadcasting for many years.
His talks on music and annotations on
recorded programmes have been fea-
tured by both national and commercial
stations.
* * *
C. B. Fry has been engaged by the
A.B.C. to broadcast during the Test
season. He is travelling out with the
team, and arrangements are being made
for messages to be broadcast from the
ship.
D. G. Maclntyre ("Mac” to the radio
trade), proprietor of Price’s Radio
Service, Angel-place, Sydney. One of
the earliest of Australian radio experi-
menters and a first-class model engineer.
Interested in the control of models by
radio. Staunch supporter of the radio
amateur, and a member of the W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division).
Casual Comment.
“V.E.”: In “The Flying Doctor
movie I was surprised at the wireless
transmitter at Cloncurry, the doc.’s base,
Instead of Morry Anderson fixing
up the ikw. rig, the film Presented
a bargain-counter assortment. A. Here-
lict-looking person complete with
bobbing corks that are popularly
assigned to westerners revved up ha
pedal generator gave the
‘over or come-m that indicates
snappy QSOs and the filaments of a
lamp that sat forlornly on the coiner m
a table lit up a la Kleig seconds af e
the operator had Then
the doctor, wearing his mar yr-
in-the-cause” expression, dived outside
and into the cockpit of a monoplane.
To cap all he spoke duplex to the
patient’s best friend from way up. in
the blue. Time film makers had a look
at a radio statipn. They could have had
their pick of hundreds around Sydney.
Nazi Broadcasting Efficiency.
In the next war, if and when it hap-
pens, short-wave broadcasting will be a
most important means of propaganda dis-
semination. Already from various Euro-
pean centres can be heard widely different
views on issues now at stake. Deal-
ing with the Spanish upheaval the
announcers of the French and German
stations flavor their news bulletins with
an unmistakable leaning to one side or
the other. In the last few months
German short-wave stations have reached
high efficiency, and DJQ on 19.63 metres
is as easily receivable in Eastern Aus-
tralia as a local station for many hours
of the day and night. Compared with it
the 8.8. C. stations are a mere whisper,
and the French stations only slightly
better. The German programmes in-
clude announcements in English, ex-
cellent musical items, outside broadcasts,
and calls to individual listeners in Aus-
tralia and M.L.
The superiority of the German stations,
apart from the nature of the programmes,
lies in technical efficiency. High power
and efficient directive aerial systems play
a big part. No stone is left unturned to
secure a large number of constant
listeners, and every report is answered by
a courteous letter, usually accompanied
by descriptive literature. The 8.8. C.
apparently does not consider such solicit-
ing of listeners worth while, for the
reporting overseas listener gets little
acknowledgment in reply. The contrast
in the German method is striking. A
listener hears the announcer, speaking
English, ask for reports from overseas.
A letter is written. In due course back
comes an appreciation including an
illustrated map of the Germany of to-
day and printed lists of the South Asia
programme from the Berlin transmitters
for the next two or three months. The
listener is invited to send along the name
and address of any friend known to be
a regular listener. The friend receives a
cordial letter, a programme and an invi-
tation to report on reception and to
make suggestions for improvement. In-
cluded is a questionnaire covering wave-
lengths, times of listening, seasonal hours
when reception is best, comparison with
stations of other countries, type of
receiver, aerial, interference from other
stations, etc.
8.8. C. should really use more power,
establish an overseas courtesy depart-
ment and, above all, make its programmes
interesting to people outside Great
Britain.
D. B. K.
Emergency Dots and Dashes.
Recent newspaper reports deal with
many cases of wireless communica-
tion between ships in cases of
medical emergency. In one sad instance
there was no communication. The wire-
less operator of a British tramp bound
from Colombo to Fremantle was
stricken with fever and no one else
aboard could “tune” the set. He died
as the shores of W.A. came over the
horizon.
The incident helps to show the neces-
sity for a medical book of signals to
aid the caller for help. The description
of symptoms usually sent by radio is
as vague to the medico as the descrip-
tion of a short-wave set would be to a
wireless expert were a non-expert
attempting to explain.
In civil life, knowledge of Morse has
saved lives. In the Melbourne Centenary
Air Race, when the Dutch ’plane was
astray, the town lights were used to
send the word “Albury.” The Dutch
Government decorated the mayor in
appreciation. In England a military
’plane in similar circumstances, was
directed by the local post office operator.
With a large mirror and a motor-cars
headlights he heliographed to the ’plane
the Morse letters of the town. The
Albury case gave him the idea.
In the N.T. the heliograph saved a
girl’s life. Taken ill suddenly, she sent
for help to a neighbouring lighthouse.
She had been taught Morse, and this


4-Valve Battery
BROADCAST SUPER-HET
£ll/5/-
Cash only.
Complete with Latest Type Valves,
Heavy Duty Batteries, Ampliou Speaker.
1.00-hour Accumulator, High-grade Com-
ponents, Aerial ami Kartli.
Assembled and Tested £ll/5/-
I’itted in handsome floor model cabinet,
£l3/2/0.
This is a particularly efficient set.
moderately priced. Guaranteed for one
year.
Other models, Broadcast and Dual-
wave, 4, r> and 0 valve. Prices and in-
formation by return post.
RADIO PARTS.
Our prices are right! See for yourself.
A price list will be posted if you,men-
tion this paper.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. ’Phone: 1PX,>194.
A BARGAIN.
The original “Wide-World Two” Short-
wave Receiver is for sale. Has band-
spread for amateur ranges. Laboratory-
type tuning dial. Gecophone slow motion
condenser. Headphone filter. Covers
continuous range from 10 to 100 metres.
Complete with valves and coils. Price £B.
Don B. Knock,
Radio Editor, “The Bulletin.”
G.ENEMOTOR
THE STANDARD
“B" ELIMINATOR
1
mm
MODEL ISO IiENEMOTOR.
INPUT: - OUTPUT:
6v. 2.‘lamps. 180 v. 30ma.
PRICE, £6/10/-.
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
MODEL XI FILTER.
For use with
Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin
No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA) Limited.
CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
knowledge brought her aid in time to
save her life in an attack of appendicitis.
One thinks of these matters on read-
ing the remark of the Governor-General
in Adelaide: “In the next war there will
be no spectators.”
Should lines be cut and radio silenced
or jambed in the same manner as the
German station at Nauen did in the last
war to British wireless, how many could
make known their urgent requirements
by visual means?
SACH.
Amateur Chatter.
DX ’phone stations complain about
the large number of overseas SWL re-
ports. If postage accompanies the report,
they do, or should, acknowledge. The
biggest bone of contention appears to
be the “DE” cards—those with a string
of figures indicating that the sender is
a member of the German listeners’ orga-
nisation. Such reports come in hundreds
and thousands, and most of them are
probably ignored by Australians. They
deserve a better fate, for reasons made
clear by the M.L. publication “Break-
in.” Amateur transmitting licenses are
distributed to German citizens by the
Reichspost after an examination of the
applicant’s personal circumstances and
qualifications. To become members of
D.A.S.D. (the transmitter organisation)
they must be proposed by the listener
society and have worked as a DE lis-
tening station for at least six months.
Finally they must pass technical, traffic
and code examinations. The DE cards
received by VKs therefore represent
somebody’s endeavor to qualify, and
there could be no more laudable object
than that of supporting these claims to
transmitter facilities by replying to the
communications. It is just a matter of
courtesy, and in that respect German lis-
teners are outstanding. By responding
to DE cards, the writer has often re-
ceived beautifully-printed literature on
the Germany of to-day, as a gesture of
Iriendship and goodwill, an illustration
of the power of amateur radio in de-
veloping international friendship.
A remarkable leature of 20-metre com-
munication at present is the long periods
during which European stations can be
heard. At intervals they are workable
all through the daylight hours, and G
stations have been heard until as late as
8 p.m. E.S.T. A fair indication of what
may be expected of European signals on
the 20-metre band can be got from the
PICTORIAL SHORT-WAVE COIL CHART.
For practically any circuit using a two-winding plug-in coil system, the above data
serve for a tuning capacity of around 00014-.000l6mfd. The upper coils are for
1¼in. and the lower for 1½in. diameter formers.
signal conditions on the German short-
wave broadcaster DJQ on 19.63 metres.
If this station is strong it is a safe bet
that a “CQ Europe” will bring a re-
sponse unless everybody is at work or
asleep.
Despite modern crystal - controlled
transmitters and amended regulations,
considerable QRM has noticed
lately from self-excited oscillators. It
is obvious that these stations continually
swishing over the band in the quest for
a good note or a good spot for DX are
mostly not equipped with a calibrated
monitor or frequency meter. The ab-
The operating position of W4ALG in Tuskaloosa, Alabama,
U.S.A., a station well known to Australian 20-metre
amateurs. The receiver is a Radio Silver all-wave superhet.
sorption meter is not good enough. At
best it only shows the aproximation of
a band. It is annoying to have reception
wrecked for long periods by raucous
A.C. inflictions dancing all over the
territory. Not only do these offenders
hash up the 20- and 40-metre bands, but
in the process of condenser-juggling they
settle for long periods on commercial
frequencies outside our band limits. This
state of affairs cannot be long tolerated,
and sooner or later the avenging angels
will be on the offenders’ trail.
VK2NO.
The Motorist-listener.
During recent years the use of broad-
cast receivers in motor-cars has rapidly
increased, adding a fresh interest to
motoring.
In reception there are freakish varia-
tions as one drives along: when passing
a large building, or when passing under
a bridge, a station may completely fade
out, and power lines frequently cause
interference. The variation when travel-
ling in hilly country is naturally pro-
nounced, and a mountain may screen a
station completely.
Behind the efficiency of the present-
day car receiver there is a story of diffi-
culties encountered and problems over-
come. Reversion to battery practice was
necessary, with a limit to the number of
valves that could be used to give the
necessary high signal level, because of
the drain upon the car battery. Equip-
ment had to be as light and as compact
as possible, built in sections so that the
speaker, receiver, power supply arrange-
ment and tuning and volume controls
could be mounted in places not required
for the mechanism of the car.
The greatest problem, however, was
that of overcoming interference from the
ignition system, as the more sensitive the
receiver the more difficult the elimina-
tion. The high-tension circuit might be
thought the wofst offender, but experi-
ence shows that such is not the case.
Instantaneous currents in primary cir-
cuits are so high
and consequent
fields so intense
that they induce
dis t u rbances in
neighboring cir-
cuits, which carry
them on. Suppres-
sors on spark plugs
take care of
secondary circuit
disturbances, but
those of primary
circuits can be
radiated by such
things as the car
wiring and other
cables of any
length. Extreme
care is thus needed
in shielding all
parts.
Many types of
power supplies and battery eliminating
arrangements, including motor and
alternating current generators, have been
used with varying measures of success.
Acoustic problems also arise. Because
of limited space for installation, suffi-
cient baffling to secure good base re-
sponse is not obtained externally. High-
note absorption is very pronounced ; but
by matching the resonant frequency of
the speaker to the baffle board both highl-
and low-note responses are greatly-
improved.
In car radio of to-day there should be
operating silence. This can be tested by
disconnecting the aerial and, with the
engine running, turning the volume con-
trol full on, at the same time tuning off
all stations. If the receiver is not entirely
shielded and not well designed for car
work, there will be noise, indicating that
the noiseless range of reception is limited.
Any good commercial motor-car re-
ceiver should give a good measure of
selectivity and tone requirements. In
other countries, the
design of car receivers
has reached such a
stage that compara-
tively cheap, reliable
and robust equipment
in a variety of types,
can be obtained, com-
pactly assembled and
provided with all the
necessary cables and
remote control appa-
ratus, enabling instal-
lation in a few
minutes. Car manu-
facturers are includ-
ing built-in aerials in
the roof and provid-
ing places for the re-
ception of the set and
speaker as standard
equipment.
To sum up, car
radio is to-day well
out of the experiment
stage, and can pro-
vide excellent broad-
cast reception.
D. N. L.
Scottish Reveries.
It is difficult to find a session on thc
air which appeals to everyone, but John
Davis in “Scottish Reveries,” broadcast
every Thursday night at 9.45 from Station
2CH, has found something exclusive
and worth listening to. He deals with
the lives of Scotia’s famous people in
the past—their loves, hates, intrigues
and whimsicalities—creating that atmo-
sphere loved by Scotsmen the world
over. One can almost smell the heather
in the glens of the Trossachs or the by-
ways of Mull.
The Q. and A. Column.
GenerAL.— - To avoid delay, address radio ques-
tions to the “Radio Editor,” The Bulletin.
I have an 85-volt 20-amp. lighting plant driven
h y “ benzine engine. Reception on an ordi-
nary long-wave receiver is impossible because
of a continuous roar ami whine from, pre-
sumably, the dynamo. Any means of cuttiim
this out ? —473. *
The dynamo is certainly responsible. First
thing to do is to see that the commutator is
clean and the brushes bedding properly This
is not a cure but a precaution. If a condenser
of around 2mld. is handy, try connecting this
across the brushes. The noise should subside
considerably. If effective, send to Ducon Con-
denser Pfy., Ltd., 73 Bourke-street, Waterloo,
N.S.W., for details of its special noise-sup-
pressor condenser units. These consist of two
condensers with fuses, and a centre earth con-
nection. They are merely connected across (lie
generator brushes, with the earth connection
to generator frame and/or earth. Other than
treating the generator thus there is little that
can be done.
(1) / have a 1930 model five-valve battery
broadcast receiver which gives good daylight
reception 370 miles from 4 QG. Would the
battery Moneysaver dual-wave superhet recently
described give better reception on the broadcast
bund ? (2) Would it be suitable on short
waves ? —475.
(1) Yes; it is a case of a 1936 superhet
against a 1930 T.R.F. model. (2) Certainly.
* * * =1:
7 he eliminator for my small set is a Philips
3003 type. Is it possible to connect my A
terminals to the eliminator and dispense with
the accumulator A battery ? —472.
No. A B eliminator is made to deliver a
few milliamperes at around 135 volts only.
Valve filaments call for current drains running
into amperes. The transformer is not wound
to deal with this, and the rectifier valve would
not stand up to it in any case. Years ago a
special A eliminator was popular, and is still
workable, but few people would be interested
in these days of A.C. valves.
V sk :fc
(1) A straight short-wave receiver is used with
two tuned R.F. stages coupled to a doublet-
type aerial. Finding tuning difficult below 19
metres, it is decided to use the first stage un-
tuned. The problem is to use this untuned
first stage with appropriate coupling to the
doublet aerial. How can this be done ? (2)
In the doublet aerial (sketch enclosed), what
should be the lengths of A and B for operation
over 16 to 31 metres 2—476.
(1) Diagram herewith gives all the details
of how to do this. (2) 20ft. for A and lift, for
B. The sketch is not drawn correctly. As
this is a double-doublet, the top sections must
cross over oppositely with the lower sections.
* * * *
I am situated 50 miles from the coast of
Queensland and want a dual-wave battery
broadcast receiver. I have been offered a
six-valve A.V.C. dual-wave receiver at £36,
or, as a minimum, a five-valve model at
£32 10s. Am fairly handy with tools and of
moderate intelligence. Could 1 make a set to
equal these; what would it cost, and where
can I get circuit particulars, etc. ? —474.
Kit-sets are sold complete with instructions,
so that it is almost impossible to go wrong in
construction. You could certainly, by using a
suitable kit, make up a set equal to com-
mercial models. Minus valves, batteries and
speaker, Radiokes battery dual-wave Money-
saver superhet kit is advertised at £9 17s. 6d.
Ihe receiver was described completely in B.
12/8/.-36, 19/8/’36 and 26/8/36. Makers of
the kit are Radiokes, Ltd., P.O. Box 10, Red-
lern, N.S.W.


«'SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REG/STEREO
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be reline
with “RAYBESTOS
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, ViC L _____
The Steering Column.
NEW FEATURES OF THE CHRYSLER
AIRSTREAM SIX.
BY FRED BERRY.
OVERF.UVE TRANSMISSION, STEEL BODIES AND
NON-SHATTERABLE GLASS.
IN the last 12 years Chrysler cars have established an enviable
reputation. The highest standards of engineering practice
have always been followed, and each succeeding model has
shown a definite improvement upon its predecessor.
The "36 series Chrysler Airstream Six, tested recently oyer
the “Bulletin” course, is remarkably efficient. The motor main-
tains its characteristic “pep” and power, and special attention
has been given to the safety and comfort of passengers. Bodies
are roomier and more comfortably equipped, the lower floor
providing a natural seating position. Safety-steel construction,
non-shatterable glass in all windows and powerful hydraulic
brakes offer a high degree of security and protection.
An overdrive transmission, integral with the gearbox,
automatically reduces engine revs, by one-third at road speeds
greater than 40 m.p.h. with a corresponding lessening of “fuss,”
increased silence and longer life of bearings and moving parts
within the motor. Furthermore, with the overdrive in operation,
a definite and, in some instances, considerable saving is
effected in the fuel bill.
Independent front-wheel suspension of
the pantograph type is retained, a feature
which, in conjunction with an efficient
ride stabiliser and careful distribution of
weight over front and back axles, ensures
easy steering and comfortable riding
qualities over all roads.
The six-cyl. L-head engine is sus-
pended in the chassis on Chrysler patent
“Floating Power” mountings, and when
fitted with special aluminium high com-
pression cylinder head develops 100
b.h.p. at 3400 r.p.m. Bore 3|in. and
stroke 44in. give a piston displacement
of 241.5 cubic inches and an R.A.C.
rating of 27.34 h.p.
The cylinder block, cast integral with
the upper half of the crankcase, is of
grey iron. Cylinder bores are honed to
a mirror finish before assembly. Crank-
case is heavily webbed to provide rigid
supports for crankshaft bearings. Water
jackets surrounding the cylinders extend
the full length of piston travel, and to
further ensure even cooling a distributing
tube running the full length of the block
directs jets of water around the valve
seatings. Pistons are anodic-coated alu-
minium alloy T-slot type, piston pins in
floating bushes being ground and lapped
to fine limits before assembly. Four
rings are fitted above the gudgeon pin
on each piston, two compression and two
oil-retaining rings. Connecting rods are
sturdy I-beam section forgings, bearings
being replaceable precision type.
The crankshaft, statically and dynami-
cally balanced, is fitted with seven in-
tegral counterweights and runs in four
Owing to the lower floor position in the
airstream design passengers may sit in a
more natural position than usual.
large precision type main bearings. A
harmonic vibration damper is attached
to the forward end. The camshaft is
driven by a short, silent chain from the
crankshaft sprocket and is supported in
four bearings.
Side-by-side valves arc fitted, tappets
being adjustable for clearance. Intakes
are chrome nickel steel, exhausts
silchrome steel. Valve springs are of
variable pitch, to eliminate flutter at high
revs. Continuing the practice introduced
in 1933, the Chrysler exhaust valve seat-
ings are “inserts” of heat-resisting steel,
shrunk into the iron cylinder block, thus
preventing rapid pitting and postponing
valve grinding for long periods.
Tappet clearances are: Inlet, six thou.;
exhaust, eight thou., with motor hot.
Water jackets extending the full length
of piston travel, together with a newly-
designed water distributing tube directing
cool water round the exhaust valve seat-
ings, ensure even cooling of the motor.
A thermostat valve in the header pipe
restricts the flow of water from cylinders
to radiator when starting from cold until
the water temperature surrounding the
cylinders has reached 140 deg. Fahr.
The C7 Airstream Chrysler sedan, with safety-steel body and non-shatterable glass
throughout, as tested over the "Bulletin" couise.
The oil pump, driven by skew gears
from the camshaft, draws oil through a
circular gauze filter and lorces it at a
pressure of 401 b. per square inch to all
main, connecting-rod and camshaft
bearings. Cylinder walls and gudgeon
pins are lubricated by jets from metered
holes in the upper half of the con.-rod
bearings. A large capacity cartridge type
oil purifier connected in the pipeline
catches all foreign matter before it can
reach the bearings. An efficient crank-
case ventilation system removes noxious
gases and water vapor from the sump,
The outlet being at the rear of the engine
below the tray.
The carburettor is of the down-
draught type, with oil bath, air cleaner,
silencer and accelerating pump. An
automatic choke control maintains the
choke in a partly-closed position so long
as engine temperature
is below 70deg
Fahr. Automatic
manifold heat contro'
is attached to the
•‘hot spot” below the
carburettor, and is
controlled by a ther-
mostat. Both auto-
matic choke and heat
control are intended
to promote easy start-
ing and prevent flood-,
ing of the combustion
chamber with we:
gases —a common oc-
currence when these
controls are operated
manually.
Fuel is drawn from
a 12gal. pressed-
steel tank, suspended between the rear
dumb irons, by a mechanical pump
driven from the camshaft. Fuel is de-
livered through pipes located outside the
frame members and coupled by flexible
airplane type hose to the carburettor.
Electrical equipment is six-volt, of
separate unit design, using a common
earth. The air-cooled generator, driven
by a flexible belt from the crankshaft
pulley, is fitted with automatic cutout
and voltage regulator. A safe charging
rate of from 15 to 18 amperes can be
continuously maintained, and the volt-
age regulator, by automati-
cally varying the charging
rate in accordance with
battery requirements, effec-
tively prevents overcharg-
ing when the car is driven
over long distances in day-
light.
The starter motor is
Solenoid-operated by a
button control on the in-
strument board, the pinion
and ring gear being silently
engaged before current
flows to the armature. The battery is
15 plate of 119 amp. hours capacity,
Coil-and-battery ignition is fitted, with
vacuum-operated control of ignition
point. Plugs are 14mm.; correct gap
The X-bridge type chassis, with box section side members,
is more rigid than in earlier types, and prevents road
shocks being transmitted to body.
setting, 25 thou. ; make and break gap,
20 thou. Firing order is 1-5-3-6-2-4.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch in a ventilated housing
for purposes of “air cooling” the unit
when under heavy load. Gearbox gives
three speeds and reverse, and is actuated
by a ball-type change-speed lever. All
gears are silent helical cut; second
in constant mesh, low and reverse of
sliding type. Within the gearbox at the
rear end of the conventional pinions is a
nest of planetary gears
which, when brought in-
to operation by centri-
fugal weights at road
speeds in excess of 40
m.p.h., constitute an
overdrive, providing a
gear ratio approximately
one-third higher than
that given by conven-
tional gearing. In over-
drive top the final reduc-
tion ratio between engine
and road wheels is 3.07
to 1. Conventional top
is 4.33 to 1 and over-
drive second 4.76 to 1,
so that in effect tne
motorist has a choice of
five forward speed ratios
instead of three, as usual
in the fixed types of
gears.
A Hotchkiss-type open
propeller shaft is used for
the final drive between
gearbox and rear axle,
with two enclosed metal
needle-roller universal
joints. Hypoid drive
with helical-cut teeth is
used in crown wheel and
pinion, the reduction
ratio being 4.33 to 1.
Chassis is X braced, with box-section
reinforcement. Wheelbase, 11 Sin. j mini-
mum road clearance, Byin.
Cutaway section of stepped cylinders in hydraulic
brake assembly whereby pressure is equalised on
front and rear shoes.
Suspension at front end is of indepen-
dent type, coil springs and panto-
graph” linkage being used. Two-way
adjustable hydraulic shock-absorbers, to-
gether with large rubber crash pads, act
as auxiliaries. Rear springs are semi-
elliptical, of conventional design, with
single-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers,
rubber-bushed shackles being fitted at
front and silent U-threaded shackles at
rear. Springs are totally enclosed in
grease-proof metal sheaths.
Steering is of worm-and-roller type,
the reduction ratio being 18.2 to 1- Two
individually mounted tie rods pivoted to
a centre hanger permit free movement of
the independently - suspended J on .
wheels without transmitting road shock
to the steering wheel. Turning cncle.
left and right lock, is 41ft.
Four-wheel internal expanding hy-
draulic brakes with centrifuge brake-
drums are fitted as service equipment,
and are operated by foot pedal. Brake


USEFUL DATA ON
CHRYSLER AIRSTREAM SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to SO m.p.h. in 11 4-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 2-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 1-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 81.08 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.3 m.p.g.
National
Advertisers:
LEI
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin’’ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
651
ML57.
m|*ct
TKt
mk
GcnJi
A D E IN AUSTRALIA
CES LIKE THIS
FIT A MAZDA
IF you use _ -uzda lamp
to illuminate the name ox
number of your house, your
friends would not have to
explore half the neighbour-
hood to find you 1
ŕ
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
ŗ
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY
e~ Son Ltd
SYDNEY
MCPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne;^Adelaide,_ Pertly
__ E.S.C.A., Brisbane,
cylinders are stepped up in diameter at
rear to equalise wear and secure maxi-
mum efficiency. The emergency and
parking brake, operated by hand lever,
is located in a metal drum behind the
gearbox.
The Richards body, of safety-steel
construction, has . armorplate non-shat-
terable glass in all windows of closed
models, provision
being made for
vent i 1 a t ion in
front and rear
quarter windows.
A manually-oper-
ated air scoop is
fitted on the cowl.
The front seat is
adjustable for
length. A spaci-
ous luggage com-
partment is built
into the stream-
lined rear panel,
within which, in the five-wheel model,
is housed the spare wheel. Dual
electric windscreen wipers are fitted,
and passenger comfort is further
enhanced by comfortable arm rests on
both front doors, centre hinged arm rest
in rear compartment, courtesy lights on
both central pillars, twin glove boxes in
instrument panel, ashtrays, robe rail,
etc. Dashboard instruments, neatly
grouped in the centre of the panel, are
indirectly lighted for night driving.
The C 7 model six-cylinder Chrysler
airstream sedan driven over the “Bulle-
tin” test course by R. Bowering, of York
Motors, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors,
weighed, with driver and observer and
full fuel tank, 35-Jcwt. (registered weight
32cwt.). Speedometer reading was 4478
miles, and the engine, having been thor-
oughly run in, was smooth in operation
and free from vibration.
In traffic the vehicle was easy to
manoeuvre, steering being light yet posi-
tive, top-gear acceleration good and
brakes smooth even when fiercely
applied.
On the open road, with “overdrive”
transmission engaged, an extremely high
cruising speed can be maintained with-
out noticeable engine fuss, and in this
high gear main road hills can be climbed
without changing down.
In a test of coasting from a steady 15
m.p.h. in neutral gear the car rolled 745
yards before coming to a stop —an ex-
cellent result.
On the flying mile in a test of maxi-
mum speed, a rather heavy wind blow-
ing directly down the course slowed the
car up, and as a consequence two runs
were made, one with and one against
the wind, the mean time being 44 2-ssec.,
averaging 81.08 m.p.h.
Over the “country” section, through
Grose Vale, suspension and cornering
were good, and in the 2 1-5-mile climb
of Kurrajong Mountain, clocked in
3min. llsec., using second and top gear
throughout, roadholding qualities proved
to be good, the car maintaining an
even keel when driven af speed round
the several difficult bends. -
Returning via the Castlereagh road to
Penrith the Chrysler was timed over the
top-gear slow-running section of 350
yards in 3min. 24sec., averaging 3.5
m.p.h., followed immediately by 350
yards still in top on full throttle, cross-
ing the finishing line at 55 m.p.h. and
covering the distance in 16 2-ssec.,
averaging 43.7 m.p.h. Timed acceleration
tests from a steady 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top and second gears showed 7 2-ssec.
and 5 l-ssec. respectively, while from
Famograph type independent front-wheel suspension
eliminates road shock through the steering wheel and
contributes to good riding qualities over rough roads.
a standstill to 50 m.p.h. was clocked in
11 4-ssec. From 25 m.p.h. the hydraulic
brakes stopped the car in 21ft. 6in.
At the conclusion of the run, which
covered 122.3 miles, fuel required to
replenish the tank was sgal. 2qrt. 360 z.,
an average of 21.3 miles per gallon (38
ton miles), the average speed, inclusive
of all tests, being 37.3 m.p.h.
Motor Oddities.
“Roly”: Forty years ago the London-
to-Brighton run for cars, celebrating the
emancipation from the 4-m.p.h. speed
limit, brought out the following
makes: Panh a r d dogcart,
phaeton and omnibus, Daimler
phaetons, carriages and dog-
carts, Bersey electric landau
and hansoms, Arnold “soci-
ables,” vans and victorias, Pen-
nington tandems and tricycles,
New and Mayne three-wheel
dogcarts, a Lormont - Paris
steam bicycle and a Penn steam
carriage. What has become of
such pioneering firms as Bersey,
Britannia, Arnold, Pennington,
Bollee, Lutzmann, Duryea,
Rub, New and Mayne, Buck-
nail, L’Hollier, Lormont-Paris,
Petters and Penn?
* *
“E. 8.”: “Philbert,” the
Talbot, known throughout the
Gosford (N.S.W.) district, is a
1913 model, and was once a
doctor’s pride. It had then, and
has now, electric lights which
cost but 9d. each year for dis-
tilled water. A tourer when it
left the factory, “Philbert” for
some years has been a utility,
having had its tail amputated.
A steel bridge girder tore out
its rear assembly once, but the
machine sat down right side up.
A Yankee carburettor is the only
change (it yields 18 m.p.g.), un-
less a raw-hide fan
belt joined with a
nail counts. The
old boy never
boils; the original
brass radiator has
never leaked. The
owner can often be
seen doing 50
m.p.h. with 15cwt.
aboard.
* *
“Ekib”: A motor
mechanic at Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) has
built a true “bitzer”
car. Driven by a 2|-h.p. Douglas motor-
cycle engine with a three-speed gear, the
little vehicle does 25 to 30 m.p.h. on
the flat, and is a fine climber. The car
contains Citroen, Chevrolet, Gray, Ford
and Studebaker parts.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
F.G. (Atherton, Q.). — l have been troubled
recently with intermittent starving of the car-
burettor on my 9-h.p. four-cylinder car. Fuel
lines are clear, and carburettor has been taken
down and thoroughly overhauled without suc-
cess. Any suggestions ?
Suggest first taking out drain plug from
rear tank in case some obstruction is floating
about in the fuel. Filter petrol before replac-
ing. If still no cure, inspect points of electric
fuel pump, and clean and adjust if necessary.
Then if the pump will not deliver full bore
when switched on it is a job for an experienced
electrician.
:{: ij; ifc
A.W.V. (Ararat, Vic.).— Has the VS Ford
been tested over the “Bulletin” course ? If
so, Would you supply me with particulars of
(1) petrol consumption, (2) brake test, (3) gen-
eral performance results ?
Yes, published B. 15/4/’36. (1) 21.9 m.p.g.
(2) 26ft. from 25 m.p.h. (3) Maximum speed,
79.29 m.p.h.; TO to 30, in top, 7 2-ssec.; 10
to 30, second, 4 3-ssec.; 0 to 50 m.p.h. in
11 3-ssec.
* * * *
F.K.W. (Strathdownie, Vic.). — On my ’34
car the automatic clutch-operating mechanism
will act in freewheel position but not in full
automatic. Clutch pedal will go down to floor
but will not return; also, the control on dash
is very stiff. Cause and cure ?
The three positions—conventional drive, free-
wheeling and freewheeling and automatic clutch
—are selected by means of a Bowden wire con-
trol encased in armored cable. After lengthy
operation the Bowden wire stretches, resulting
in either conventional gear or full automatic
being difficult to select. Adjustment of the
push-pull control for length in the hands of a
competent mechanic will occupy only a few
minutes, and the three positions can then be
easily selected.
* * * *
D.M.R.R. (Sydney).—(l) Might I expect im-
proved performance if the combustion chamber
“Fancy living in a hote like that!”
of my \S-h.p. car were thinly sprayed with alu-
minium. ? (2) Does burnishing the inside of in-
duction manifold give better results ? (3) Can
metal spraying be done here, by whom and
what cost ? (4) What are bore and stroke, capa-
city and compression ratio of my car ?
(1) Yes, but if compression is raised unduly
it may be advisable to fit a thicker cylinder-
head gasket. (2) Yes, burnishing valve ports
and inside induction manifold is common prac-
tice when tuning cars for competition. (3) Yes;
Metal Coatings, Ltd., 16 Bridge-street, Stan-
more; 10s. four cylinders, 15s. six cylinders.
(4) Bore 69, stroke 102, capacity 2288.4 c.c.,
compression ratio 5.9 to 1.
* * * ?!
P.J. (Dapto, N.S.W.). —l am getting only 14
to 16 m.p.g. with my 72 model. It is fitted
with Zenith carburettor with 21 main jet. How
can this result be bettered, and what jets should
be tried ?
Seventy-two model was fitted with Stromberg
UX3 up-draught carburettor as standard equip-
ment ; early 70’s used Zeniths. Suggest poor
consumption is not due to faulty carburettor
tuning but rather to wear in valve guides
causing air leaks to combustion chamber, the
bedding of valves and the seatings preventing
(lie free passage of gas. Wear in pislon rings
and cylinder walls is causing poor compression
and generally a falling-off in cfliciency of the
engine owing to age.
•i* 'i* H*
H.B.A. (Toorawcenah, N.S.W. —(1) The but-
tery in my ’26 cur is giving trouble, and after
last charging I found the centre cell nearly flat.
After a run of 30 miles it is powerful enough
to work the self-starter, but on standing a
couple of hours it is too weak. There are no
shorts in the system, but the ammeter seems
to be erratic, showing 3 when switched off, 1
when switched on and 10 on full charge. Cause
and cure ? (2) If a new battery is required,
what size and in what position should the pos.
and neg. terminals be ?
(1) Faulty centre cell in the battery is due to
an internal short-circuit, and battery must be
dismantled and rebuilt to effect a cure. False
readings on the ammeter are probably due to a
bent or strained needle. Check by disconnect-
ing one terminal from battery, when needle
should point to zero. (2) New battery should
be of 13-plate type, the positive (+) terminal
being connected to earth (car frame).
* * * *
V.J.C. (Bombala, N.S.W.). —Has the Capitol
model Chevrolet a condenser, and, if so, where
is it located ?
Yes, inside the coil and not on the distributor
head.
=!: * 4>
G.L.H. (Narrabeen, N.S.W.). —My ’36 model
eight-cylinder car has now done 6000 miles,
but the motor knocks badly on hills or when
accelerated rapidly. On a recent trip with fully-
laden car and trailer the engine knocked con-
tinuously, and the spark setting had to be re*
tarded about half an inch from that fixed by
the agents. Is this knock normal or should the
spark be further retarded, and, if so, will it do
the engine any harm ?
Knock is not normal with standard setting
and average loads. Addition of trailer would
necessitate retarding slightly. Suggest examining
automatic spark control —it might be stuck
in full advanced position. Breaker points
should be 14 thou, apart, spark points 25 thou.
Advise also using super fuels.
* * # ijt
R.C.S. (Tasmania). —(1) What causes the
engine of my car to lose power and tinkle when
going up hill ? (2) What is the valve timing,
etc., of four-cylinder 91 model Overland?
(1) Should the trouble have developed gradu-
ally, probably decarbonising and a valve grind
would improve performance. It is also advis-
able to check ignition points. (2) Inlet valVe
opens sdeg. past T.D.C. and closes 45deg. past
B.D.C. Exhaust opens 39deg. before B.D.C.
and closes sdeg. past T.D.C. Measured by
piston in cylinder. Inlet opens o.2mm. past
T.D.C., closes 14.8 mm. past B.D.C. Exhaust
opens 11.3 mm. before B.D.C. and closes o.2mm.
past T.D.C. Tappet clearances, inlet 4 thou.,
exhaust six thou., with motor hot. Ignition
point fuel retard at T.D.C.
Wants.
H.P. (Gympie. Q.) wants crankshaft for four-
cylinder ’2B model Arrol Johnston car.


Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates appiy to
any accredited advertising agency.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
36.8 Collins Street.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne—Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington fct.
jr i,. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
The Long White Cloud
The Old Savages Sang
An establishment for preserving Maori
culture has been suggested as the Maori
portion of the 1940 centennial memorial.
Whatever enjoyment cynics may dis-
cover in this, it is time Maoriland pro-
vided European and native research
workers with a centre; the 100th birth-
day of white civilisation would be a
good unveiling date.
If Mr. Savage and Mr. Nash hurry
on their socialising programme, the
Maoris will almost have completed the
cycle of political economy in these 100
years. Before the white men arrived,
they had their own system —tribal com-
munism in matters of property and food-
stuffs, with every chief a petty dictator.
Maoriland’s private businessman is
rapidly finding himself in a position
somewhat similar to that of the average
Maori warrior of pre-pakeha days.
Labor now promises to impose an “en-
couragement, regulation and licensing’’
bill on M.L. industry. A Minister will
have “full control of all regulating
schemes,” but the bill will contain safe-
guards against every other form of
monopoly.
The Maori Conservatorium of Music
and of Arts and Crafts proposed by the
Rotorua Borough Council should cer-
tainly be opened by a representative of
the Labor Government; if there were
holes in the broad principles of Maori
communism it is time Maorilanders
knew what the old savages had to sing
about.
“M.H.L.”: Labor left no stone un-
turned to ensure. victory for its candi-
date in the Manukau by-election, and
if F. W. Doidge tops the poll it will in-
dicate a big swing in political feeling
across the Tasman. Although Manukau
includes a large slice of industrial Auck-
land, the Labor executive threw £2OO into
A. G. Osborne’s fighting fund and Min-
isters Semple and Webb used all their
fire on his behalf. Beaverbrook’s former
lieutenant made no bones about his.atti-
tude towards M.L. Labor, which he
criticised for its extreme socialism. The
“Standard,” official organ of the M.L.
Labor movement, styled -him '“this
would-be savior of the people from
Savage-ry.” It was a more bitter fight
than most of those in the general elec-
tion nine months ago.
* * * *
“Xo”: Political and economic changes
are rarely “portrayed in a correct per-
spective” by any contemporary party
writer, but Finance Minister Nash says
it has been done in Recent Economic
Changes in Maoriland, by, Dr. W. B.
Sutch, of the Finance Ministry staff. The
author is another of Professor B. E.
Murphy’s young political - economy
specialists. Coates took two with him
to London as “economic advisers”—-Dr.
Campbell and I. Forde, now a Parlia-
mentary reporter for the London
“Times.” D. O. Williams, economics
lecturer at Massey Agricultural College
and a recent Labor addition to the direc-
torate of the Bank of M.L/., is another
Murphy man. - ' r
“Trim”: The chateau where the Aus-
tralian skiers stayed while competing in
the inter-Dominion championships is
costing the Maoriland Government about
£6OOO a year, according to Parliamentary
discussion. Minister Langstone explained
that most of this went in interest on
capital. Chateau Tongariro must have
attracted considerable tourist money to
M.L. in the last few years ; it is a strong
talking point with overseas tourist repre-
sentatives. Situated on the slopes of Mt.
Ruapehu, about half-way between Auck-
land and Wellington, it would be well
served by the inland aerodrome sug-
gested by the member for Waitomo;
visitors with boat connections to keep
“Why didn't you tell me you Wanted to go ‘Walkabout to-night?
“Because I Wanted to go ‘ Walkabout ,'”
would then have a chance to visit the
National Park. ;
• . jj- :{; #
“F.1.N.”: Works Minister Semple, who
says, he has been gaoled six times for
fighting for his principles, has a-long way
to go yet to better the record of an old
rfian who died in Wanganui a few years
ago. Jimmy went;to quod 49 times fight-
ing tor his principles; All he wanted
was free beer for the mob.
* :; * ' ■*.''( *
■ “M.P.”: The housing scheme which is
to cost £3,500,000 is causing considerable
concern in the Maoriland.;joinery and
allied trades, for State joinery factories
are to be established at Wellington and
Auckland. Finance Minister Nash says
building will be carried out on a contract
basis, and adds, naively, that private
builders who can do the work cheaper
than the Government will be given
opportunities.
* * * *
“Motu”: It is a long way from the
solitude of Matakana Island at the
mouth of the TaUranga harbor (M.L.) to
the bustle of the Melbourne Show’s Hall
of Commerce. Matakana is the island
home of several million pine-trees in
various stages of growth ; ..these trees
were planted for a private company com-
posed mostly of Australians, and Ross
Faulkner, a young .Melbourne man,
supervised the afforestation work for
several years. A few weeks ago he was
driving a tractor and supervising Maori
labor across the Tasman; last week he
was in charge of Show exhibits illustrat-
ing a new Melbourne industry—pastel-
shaded carpets and rugs manufactured
from sheepskins.
( *■ * * *
“Pip”: New Plymouth (M.L.) .was the
home port for the 40-foot fishing launch
whose storm-battered hull was recently
washed ashore near Kawhia. North and
south from New Plymouth the coast is
exposed and rocky, but good feeding
grounds have attracted fish and fisher-
men from the early days of settlement.
It was over the same exposed coast-
line that the whalers who were the
district’s first white men stroked Maori
crews in open boats after natives had
cried their equivalent of “There she
blows” from shore lookouts. Large
iron boiling-down pots used by those
whalers now repose at the entrance to the
town’s museum building.
* * * *
“D N.”: Those Australians suspicious
of overseas game birds (B. 23/9/ 36)
should know that the Auckland Accli-
matisation Society plans to provide
sport-hungry Maoriland shots with
16,000 pheasants in the next five years.
Most of these birds will be bred in M.L.,
but their ancestors were imported and
spent the usual six months in quarantine.
It is now intended to experiment with
the eggs of game birds from overseas.
One bright dealer intends loading a ship-
board incubator with Virginian quail
eggs at one of the American Pacific
ports. He expects the chicks to hatch
slowly and be ready just after arrival at
Auckland.
* * *
“F.”: Instances of old tribal custom
mingling with modern law still come
before Maoriland Courts. In a recent
Supreme Court action a former Sydney
resident was a party to a judgment affect-
ing the right of a European to inherit
Maori lands. A Maori couple “adopted
him in 1900 ; after the death of the Maori
he knew as his father, a Native Land
Court appointed the dead man’s blood
relatives as his, successors ; in 1934, the
white foster son claimed the £lO,OOO
estate. The native inheritors then alleged
that he was not a legally adopted son, and
in August they asked the Supreme Court
to nullify the adoption order taken out in
Wellington in 1900. They contended
that the foster mother was not, in law,
the wife of the dead Maori but, at most,
his wife according to native custom. The
judgment upheld this view, and unless
there is a successful appeal the natives
keep their inheritance.
' * *
“R.1.P.E.”: Five members of Maori-
land’s Labor Cabinet know the inside
of a coalmine, and two of them, Minis-
ters Webb and Semple, trod familiar
ground when they went to Huntly to
harangue the 900 men who embarrassed
the Ministry by stopping work. They
were in Huntly together in 1914, the
former as Labor member for Grey and
the latter as organiser for the Federation
of Latior ; they went there again because
the miners felt they had been “victimised”
out of Labor’s 40-hour week. A tele-
gram from the Auckland Hospital ask-
ing for coal helped the Ministers to hunt
the men below again. It was the former
Federated Labor organiser who recently
:said he would not be a “shuttlecock or
tool in the hands of any trade-union
secretary” ; he should know how to deal
with them.
* * * *
“Mak”: Something of the curious
psychology of her forefathers was shown
by the Auckland Maori woman who, re-
fusing food or drink after a bereavement,
died of starvation. Like some other
native races, the old Maori could die
when he wished or, more correctly,
when, after some breach of tapu, his
priests persuaded him he should. This
physical acceptance of what amounts to
spiritual defeat still stands in the way of
improving Maori health (B. 23/ 9/ ’36), as
health officers, churchmen and teachers
in the more remote native settlements
realise in times of epidemic.


r.
v
J
£
J
V
He doesn’t want
to hurt you
The PEOPLE who are afraid of
the dentist are the people who do not
consult him until they have tooth-
ache. Your dentist is more interested
in protecting your teeth than he is in
repairing them. Go to him regularly
for examination and you will escape
a lot of pain and trouble.
4 out of 5
is grim pyorrhea’s count
RENTAL STATISTICS tell this grim
story: four people out of every five
are destined, through neglect, to contract
pyorrhea after they pass the age of forty.
Thousands younger also suffer.
Pyorrhea is the dread disease of the
gums which is responsible often for loss of
teeth, rheumatism, neuritis and other
dangerous disorders.
It starts with tender bleeding gums.
Pockets form below the teeth and poisons
spread relentlessly through the body.
If you have pyorrhea or any of its symp-
toms see your dentist at once and start
brushing your teeth with Forhan’s for the
Gums.
To safeguard yourself against pyorrhea
make Forhan’s your regular dentifrice. It
is the formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S.,
and contains Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent,
which is used by thousands of Dentists in
the treatment of pyorrhea.
If used regularly and used in time it will
prevent pyorrhea or check its course. Don’t
give this insidious disease a chance to start.
Start using Forhan’s this very day.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-.
A ustralasian A gents :
The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
ora
-i .£■
m
m
O'
o
6 C
UJ
ti
US
'iflD
wiiiniii
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ţrt
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and ' New
Zealand should send 30!-.)
X
.0 ,
.©V
h 5 e G< V •••'■'
* „\9\ J ,•- .-• ,••■.,
AX®'
s“' . • .-■• ... ,«"V$
o' .••■’’ ..•••'
#' 5 ' .••■'• ..•■■..4 '°^»V-


■
mm
mm
V.
mm
mm i
mm
mm
HEAD OFFICE:
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
CORNER
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
WM. BENNETT,
Managing Director.
