

zm
ivX::**:
m&M
mm
\ if % •
\
M ' ' i * ' ' ..''' >; i.mg ♦ >
IP>V' v *a*<?«»*i' v'S'v&ff
5 m
?•> :?&
I
t: -4 *
I®
:■, ■
, mMw ; M4M
pI Y *V
i- • •
.
I
:S.- :
m
?: '
Os
If
m
4-4;
: > i
>V •*.
as.
\.
il-
ii : : -
If
■
mm
*WW
.A/ ; :
...»
j?
*
m
m
mm
u
p.*£
m
> a
\
:mO-
:■:■■■■■<-
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building*
Queen Street,
Brisbane
G.P.O. Box 1017 N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA*
C.M.L. Building,
King William Sreet,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z. Chambers
Featherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 562 Wellington
m
ERV
Each day thousands of queries concerning
investments are raised. Prompt and efficient
replies to these mean much to those whose
capital must be kept earning at maximum
capacity consistent with safety and security.
At the service of investors throughout Aust-
ralia and New Zealand is the organisation of
Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd., which effec-
tively answers problems facing investors and
affords sound advice.
No matter what your financial or investment
problems Hamiltons' expert staff is at your
service. Enquiries regarding the possi-
bilities of stocks and shares which you are
holding, or contemplate purchasing, will be
promptly answered.
Let Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. advise you;
enquiries place you under no obligation.
Ask for particulars of Hamiltons' offerings
of shares in established dividend-paying
companies.
Mamiltons (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital £250,000
Head Office, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street,
1 Chambers. Onr. of H ,! nter and
Armidate, N.S.W. 'Phone, Armidale 150. Box No. 123 Armidate.
Bolton Streets, Newcastle. 'Phone: Newcastle 1942.
The Bulletin
A Fine Bully Hayes Yarn
Vol. 57.—N0. 2968.
Wednesday, December 30, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
will be sent Free and Post Free to any
address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Riissell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Mg Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person bom in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and addre.-.s
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize wid be
added to the following year's Prize.
The Red Page
Speech to a Crowd.
Tell me, my patient friends —awaiters of messages—
From what other shore: from what stranger:
Whence was the word to come? Who was to lesson you?
Listeners under a child’s crib in a manger—
Listeners once by the oracles: now by the transoms—
Whom are you waiting for? Who do you think will explain?
Listeners thousands of years and still no answer—
Writers at night to Miss Lonely-Hearts: awkward spellers—
Open your eyes! There is only earth and the man!
There is only you: there is no one else on the telephone:
No one else is on the air to whisper:
No one else but you will push the bell.
No one knows if you don’t: neither ships
Nor landing-fields decode the dark between:
You have your eyes and what your eyes see is.
The earth you see is really the earth you are seeing:
The sun is truly excellent: truly warm:
Women are beautiful as you have seen them—
Their breasts (believe it) like cooing of doves in a portico:
They bear at their breasts tenderness softly. Look at them!
Look at yourselves. You are strong. You are well formed.
Look at the world —the world you never took!
It is really true you may live in the world heedlessly:
Why do you wait to read it in a book then?
Write it yourselves! Write to yourselves if you need toi
Tell yourselves there is sun and the sun will rise:
Tell yourselves the earth has food to feed you:
Let the dead men say that men must die!
Who better than you can know what death is?
How can a bone or a broken body surmise it?
Let the dead shriek with their whispering breath:
Laugh at them! Say the murdered gods may wake
But we who work have end of work together:
Tell yourselves the earth is yours to take!
Waiting for messages out of the dark you were poor.
The world was always yours: you would not take it.
Archibald MacLeish, in "Public Speech” (Boriswood ).
"Flight to Hell."
The “hell” flown to is Australia. The fliers were
the Germans Bertram and Klausmann, who in 1932
drifted westward from their course over the Timor
Sea and made a forced landing on the beach near
Cape Bernier, a little closer to the Drysdale Mission
than to Wyndham, but a perishing long way from any-
where. Nothing more was heard of them for the best
part of two months.
Meanwhile a curious clue had been picked up by a
native in that empty north —an initialled cigarette-case
shed with clothes and other belongings when, swim-
ming a stream, they saw crocodiles coming after them.
Acting hopefully on that clue, the mission sent out
co-ordinated parties of natives ; the lost fliers were
found suffering extremely from exposure and starva-
tion. Now Bertram has written his personal account
of the whole fearful adventure: Flight to Hell
(Hamish Hamilton ; IQs. 6d. net). It is a book in
which the innate dramatic power and strangeness of
the subject matter create a literary quality that has
little reliance on words or narrative construction.
Describing the flight out from Germany as far as
Timor it is merely another and rather ordinary account
of a flight; then they leave Kupang, headed for
Darwin—“the start of the Australian flight, the start
into destruction, the start into Hell!”—and the story
leaps into life.
They landed in “hell” with some optimism. They
thought they had drifted the opposite way and were on
Melville Island. The sight of a native increased their
feeling of safety ; but they could make nothing of him
nor he of them, so they took to the air again, skirting
the coast and watching for settlements till their petrol
ran out. That native was the last human they were to
see for many weeks, during which, by this account,
they went extraordinarily long stretches without food
or water, part of the time exposed naked to sun,
mosquitoes and the rest of it, for days—foodless and
drinkless —paddling far out at sea a boat constructed
from one of the ’plane floats, once staggering into a
bushfire, in the whole of their frantic wanderings two
small lizards, a fish, a few berries and a handful of
shellfish their entire food.
The nature of the country about them—a burnt-
out and parched wilderness —spurred attempts to
escape from it. Their first was a three-days’ trek
without food or water, ending in the swim, the croco-
diles, themselves now naked and barefoot. They had
lost all their possessions except sun-helmets, scarves—
these curiously destined to save sanity—and a pistol.
The only living thing they “saw was a kangaroo.
Bertram aimed the pistol and fired. The ’roo fled.
The pistol recoiled and cut a deep wound under
Bertram’s eye; he had been unaware how much
strength had gone already. He thought, “One could
easily put an end to this torture.” They thought it
together, looking at each other in horror; then
Bertram turned and flung the pistol into the sea. At
night, covering their nakedness with sand away from
the mosquitoes—all but their right arms, on which the
unaccustomed mosquitoes swarmed. But both need
not have the right arm exposed. “We had not the
courage to make this sacrifice even for friendship.”
At last Bertram covered the right arm of his com-
panion.
Then the trek back to the ’plane again ; tempo-
rary comfort. Then the conversion of one of the floats
into a boat, and so to sea, the sun burning them
frightfully, a ship passing not 700 yards away without
seeing them, the current drift taking them, rudderless,
out of sight of land:
From that time onwards we rowed continually for
four days and nights. Who gave us the necessary
strength? How were our arm-muscles holding out?
Day and night we sat huddled in the small seats of the
boat; the circulation was stopped in the calves of our
legs in their cramped and unusual position; our legs
were soon swollen and shapeless and quite without life.
Sun scorched their bodies ; in the sea air thirst became
terrible. They rowed a day and night after sighting
land before they made the shore, crept out of the boat,
stumbled, dragged themselves forward a yard or two,
kissed the sacred soil, and prayed—and went to sleep.
Then desperately they headed inland, into country
more hellish still, but there finding a miraculous rock-
pool of water, immersing themselves in it, feeling their
bodies absorbing it, eating leaves for their hunger,
with racking pains to follow. They were a month
lost, near now to madness, when they saw the bushfire.
“Life,” they thought; Bertram, coming to it, lured
irresistibly into it, knew it for Death, clutched at his
throat where his scarf was knotted and by that touch
saved his sanity enough to save his life.
They cut their float-boat in halves because rocks
had jagged part of it, and coasted, starving and water-
less, in the cockleshell. A ’plane flew over them,
unseeing. Thirty-three days practically without food
and nearing the end of their resistance, they crawled
into a cave at Cape Bernier. There, on their fortieth
morning, Bertram wakened as the sun was rising and
looked out:-
My eyes stared into the sun rising over the cliffs of
Cape Bernier, and upon those cliffs, in the sunshine,
stood a man!
A man stood on the Cape! Life was over there,
only 100 yards from us!
Was I raving mad? No, no, the silhouette moved,
leapt from rock to rock, looking for something. All
1 had to do was to shout, but I lay motionless, petrified,
incapable of making a sound; then with a supreme effort
I raised my arm and pointed.
Klausmann saw my movement. He sat up, and then
I heard, a cry—a cry that will remain for ever in my
ears—ali the horror of our endless fight for life was in
that inhuman sound. It was a frightful cry, but it
brought us deliverance. Only a second or two later
and the man would have disappeared without having
seen us in our cave.
Klausmann’s cry re-echoed in the rocks. The sil-
houette stiffened, turned, saw us, made a sign, and
with great bounds came towards us and stood at the 1
entrance to the cave.
A man stood at the entrance to our cave with a fish
in his hand. With an awkward movement of his hand
he gave us the fish—gave us life!
They ate the fish raw. The native sent up a smoke signal.
Soon the rest of the mission search party were there,
with provisions and a hopeful explanatory letter from
the mission padre. Having been through an experience
that only fibre of extraordinary toughness could have
survived against madness and death, the rescued now
had to fight against madness from joy. When their
stomachs refused the chunks of kangaroo-meat they
tried to bolt, their rescuers obligingly gave the meat
a first chewing for them, and then they ate it gladly.
In time they were strengthened and taken to the
mission; later, after vicissitudes, Bertram flew his ’plane
back to Germany. He promised his rescuers and
helpers that he would one day return, and insists that
he will keep that promise. Of these in general he
says:—
I know from my travels the hospitality of the peoples
of Asia, especially the Chinese, but I now maintain
that the Australians beat all others in this respect.
Of the aborigines in particular:
Their treatment of us showed a generosity that I
have rarely met with in any people in the world.
Eric Lowe.
We have reached the stage when the Australian
scene is being depicted by Australians with a hundred
years or more of Australian heredity behind them.
These writers do not have to search for, to study, to
“absorb” atmosphere ; it has been bred in them, they
breathe it. In consequence from them we are getting
natural writing without the over-emphasis that makes
it unreal, in which respect our current literature is
far in advance of our films.
These thoughts came to me as I read Erie Lowe’s
/ Sold My Horses , lately concluded as a serial in The
Bulletin. When I read it in the typescript during
the judging for the Prior Memorial Prize, the first
few pages told me “This writer knows his country.”
I had been out that way myself—on stations in mid-
western N. S. Wales —and the facility with which
Lowe described his scenes and his people was so
convincing that I said, while his name was still in
a sealed envelope, “I’ll bet this writer is a native-
born.” There was no straining for effect. The back-
ground of his story was drawn with ease, the char-
acters on his stage were those among whom he could
have lived, and there was nothing wildly improbable
about the things that happened to them.
It did not surprise me then to find, when I met
him, that Eric Lowe is a descendant of the Robert
Lowe who arrived in New South Wales in 1812 and
took up land in the Cowpastures at Bringelly, the
pastoral pioneer whose sons went oyer the mountains
with cattle to Mudgee shortly after the discovery of
the Cudgegong and settled at Eurunderee and Wil-
betree (in the heart of the Henry Lawson country).
Lowe was himself born at his father’s station
at Birriwa. After his education at The King’s School
he lived as a pastoralist until 1922 —with an interlude
in Egypt and Palestine with the Ist Light Horse —since
when he has roamed over inland Australia from
Carnarvon to Cloncurry. As an occasional diversion
from more physically strenuous exercises, he has con-
tributed verse, stories and sketches to various publi-
cations, including The Bulletin, under various pen-
names —the verse of a wistful quality, the stories
definitely dramatic. I Sold My Horses is his first
extended literary effort, and it shows that in the novel
he has found his strength as a writer.
What I like most about l Sold My Horses is its
restraint, its avoidance of melodrama. This is no
story of “The Squatter’s Daughter” type. The principal
character, who is a squatter’s son, is not presented
as a dashing hero. He is the very natural, strong and
sensitiye type of scores of young Australian graziers,
self-willed, if not arrogant, whose faults are as many
as his virtues, all presented with honesty to make a
very human balance. His mother is a woman whose
heart is not in the land, and he marries a - woman
who ha? no knowledge of it; these are the factors
that upset hb emotional life and prove that there can
be no serenity without companionship based on mutual
interest and understanding. If he could have married
Nancy, who loved him, we might have had a happier
story, but I doubt if we would have had a better
one, because life, unfortunately, is not all like that.
In fact, life is more like the story Lowe has given us.
T. D. MUTCH.
Masefield's Latest.
The title of John Masefield’s new novel Eggs
and Baker (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.) suits the book, for
it is both odd and familiar. It suggests, but it does
not fulfil the suggestion. There is something equi-
vocal, too, about the occasion it celebrates —part
tragic, part silly—when the religious baker of Condi-
cote throws an egg at a Judge in court. It was a
half-hearted egg, neither rotten nor raw, but merely
soft boiled ; the most futile and savorless of protests.
The story is set in an English village in the seven-
ties of last century, a period—-like any other —of social
ferment. The Mansells have baked the bread of
Condicote for one hundred and fifty years, and now
the business is going to ruin because Robert Mansell
is a Christian Socialist and writes 1 fiery letters to the
newspapers about the iniquity of the slums. His wife,
Tryphena, is whole-heartedly with him, and they allow
the socialist agitator, Adolf Engels, to sponge on
them. (He is not to be confused, with Engels, the
colleague of Marx.) Mansell organises a grand
socialist rally, with Engels as chief speaker ; but it
misfires because public attention is deflected that
evening by the murder of a gamekeeper by poachers.
One of the accused is a poor half-wit called the
Magpie, whom Mansell has known for years. Man-
sell spends his savings unavailingly on the Magpie’s
defence. It is when he is condemned to death that
Mansell throws the egg and suffers imprisonment in
consequence.
Mansell is a pathetic and futile idealist; he is
nearly, but not quite, a martyr to his faith; at the end
Masefield’s romanticism intervenes, and a rich aunt
who has had a change of heart arrives most oppor-
tunely when the Mansells’ , fortunes are at their nadir
to restore property that Robert should have inherited
from his mother.
A great part of the book’s bulk is taken up with
two long descriptions—an amateur bullfight staged
by three boys and the murder trial. In the first there
is a savor of youth. that charms, but it is hardly
germane to the story. The second is dreary with
repetition as there are no new facts to come out nor
any uncertainty as to the result.
In Eggs and Baker Masefield has abandoned the
rich vein he worked in Captain Margaret, Sard
Barker, Bird of Pawning. It does not belong with
(Continued on page 9.)


"Truth in Advertising ’* FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
ENJOY FRESH FOOD
THIS SUMMER
To those country people who hove been
denied the pleasure of food and drinks
<
off the ice—science offers this simple
solution—Anthony Horderns' "Selfreezer"
Even on the hottest days, food will be
delightfully appetising, allowing the
housewife always to serve enjoyable meals
dishes to tempt the most jaded
appetites.
i
m&.
<: V vw. : <.<;
4»;
■
r- m
*s*
y <
? \.: V"'X
'-**&*% f % ;
( ~ _
>Sii
5? /
g^wxsra
f>>&.
I
ii£
%
m
p
fL>i
X*?x
•<iy
zm-.
m
<v
vvx^,
m
I
as-
urn
i
PP
m?
" The Senior Store”
There is a
container
for making
14 Ice Cubes
s
Ah
ANTHONY HORDERNS
NEW MODEL-IMP ROVED
ATTRACTIVE AND HYGIENIC. —The handsome cabinet is made by Anthony
Horderns' AND IT IS MADE TO LAST. The interior of porcelain enamel is
most efficiently designed with rounded corners, adding to its hygienic cleanli-
ness as well as its appearance.
CAPACITY. —The ample storage space is 24in. long x 18in. wide x 19in. deep.
Removable wire trays add to the effectiveness of the interior, which will contain
eggs, milk and other necessities, as well as a whole carcass of mutton cut into
SIMPLE
No complicated mechanism—a child could work it. There
is nothing to get out of order. Only two minutes' personal
attention is required each day.
ECONOMICAL
Considering the benefits and comforts derived from the
"Selfreezer," the cost of its upkeep is surprisingly
economical. It can be kept in perfect working order at
the cost of one pint of kerosene per day. With care
it will last indefinitely.
FOOD SAVING
COVERS THE COST
Many harassed housewives often find it necessary to
throw away food that perishes rapidly in the hot weather,
but with the installation of the "Selfreezer" it will be
found that the saving in foodstuffs will substantially
help towards defraying the cost of this useful appliance.
Just think of it! No more oily, rancid butter, sour
milk, or unappetising meat, but in their stead, fresh,
firm butter, icy cold drinks, fresh vegetables and de-
lightful savouries. You can completely disregard the
temperature when thinking of your culinary comfort,
joints, and half a box of butter.
"DRY" COLD. The "dry" cold is exceedingly
effective, and will keep all food crisp, fresh and
appetising. "Dry" cold maintains the wholesome
health-giving properties as well as the original flavour.
Easy Terms can be arranged .
Ask for the easy terms -on which a "Selfreezer"
Refrigerator may be obtained.
FURTHER DETAILS WILL BE SENT ON REQUEST.
"SELFREEZER"
SEMI AUTOMATIC
REFRIGERATOR
£49'10-
Including Packing in specially made cases and delivery
to boat or rail.
• Furniture —Third Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only
WHAT ,
A /
LUXURY •
I ICED
DRINKS
What is more delightful
during hot, tiring weather
than an iced drink?
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Splendid Tale of Bully Hayes
ILLUSTRATED BY G. K. TOW~NSHEND
FOR years the islands had
waited for it to happen.
And now, when it came,
it fell like a blow between
the eyes. Bully Hayes sat hunched in the glow of a
binnacle light. The voice from the whaleboat under
the brig’s counter was sending up the story in broken
sentences, short-clipped but full of the haunting
tragedy which had overwhelmed the schooner Mary
Ellis.
Somewhere in the Tokelaus, on the uncharted
Latanga shoals, to which Hayes himself had furi-
ously called the Admiralty’s attention, the schooner
had gone to pieces. Sixteen of the vessel’s crew had
disappeared in the dark and smother like things
sponged from a slate.
“Only two got ashore, Captain Hayes—Bailey
Dixon and Miss Sellars.”
“Dixon!” Hayes leaned over the rail and stared
down at the whaleboat. “What was that man-killer
doing aboard a peaceful trading schooner? A police
cutter was the place for him.”
“No police cutter available at Lava Vitu. So
the damned P.M. shoved him aboard the Mary Ellis
with a couple of native officers to look after him.”
Hayes sucked in a deep breath. “Then the posi-
tion is this, Paterson,” he flung out at last; “your
girl, Sue Sellars, is somewhere on the Latanga reefs
with this gaol-rat Dixon?”
“For the last three days,” Paterson gave back.
“I got the word an hour ago from old Tamasese.
He got near the wreck, but couldn’t make the entrance
to the motu where Dixon and Sue are. Seas break-
ing like big guns over the whole group.”
L_J AYES thought of the girl Sellars, who had been
* * travelling from Honolulu to Apia to meet her
fiance, Archie Paterson, a wealthy young trader from
Sydney.
Sue’s people owned a circus at Belmore Park.
In her fifteenth year Sue had controlled a gambling
stall, with intervals of tight-rope walking in the
interest of the box-office. This leggy young gamine
of the booth and ring had developed into a slenderly
lovely woman with the face of a Rudi Madonna.
During the past year Hayes had encountered her
in more than one dubious financial operation. She
favored the saloon staterooms of the intercolonial
vessels, where she fraternised with money and fashion.
She preferred the society of rich widows and girls.
Woe to the man who mistook her pleasant badinage
for the signals of a wanton. Her engaging appear-
ance and charming address had extricated her from
many a difficult situation in the cardrooms of ocean
liners.
Gaming was in her gipsy blood. But gaming
had never carried her to the edge of the slope where
so many of her kind had slithered and fallen.- That
old circus tight-rope had been her guide and philo-
sopher, had showed her the hardness of the dirt on
the ground floor.
Archie Paterson was aware, no doubt, of her
dubious antecedents. It was not Hayes’s business to
enlighten him. She had been engaged to half a dozen
well-meaning boys, only to cast them aside when the
eternal wanderlust carried her to the first outgoing
steamer.
Paterson had sworn to marry her the moment
she arrived in Apia. But Nemesis appeared to be
sitting on Sue’s trail. Marooned on a lonely atoll
with Bailey Dixon was a cruel stroke of fate for any
sport-loving adventuress. Hayes cursed the drunken
Bob Bateman, skipper of the Mary Ellis, who had
flung this unprotected girl into the arms of a gibber-
ing ape. Dixon’s record of crimes held men aghast.
Twice convicted of manslaughter and assaults on
women, he had been sent under native escort to Apia
to undergo trial for his most recent abominable act.
' Hayes stared down at young Paterson in the
whaleboat. “No use whining about devil’s luck, my
lad! Sling off those damned tennis trousers you’re
wearing and get into wholesome dungaree. Jump
aboard. You can reef and steer. We’ll make Latanga
in no time.”
“She’s your girl, not mine,” he added grimly as
the young trader dame up the Jacob’s ladder with the
speed of a gymnast. “And I’ll say this, Mr. Paterson,
I wouldn’t allow a dog of mine to live within a
hundred miles of Dixon!”
“A hundred miles!” Paterson echoed, dropping
to the Leonora’s deck. His face was drained of
color, his eyes reflected the agony endured since the
news of the schooner’s fate had reached him. “Why,
there’s only a few stunted puka-trees between them,
a strip of beach a man could cover in fifty strides!
He’s only got to put out his hand to grab her. It’s
like sitting on a rock with a bloodhound!”
“Stand by the lee braces! ” Hayes roared the
moment the anchor came aboard. “Hard aport your
helium, Mr. Emery!”
“Hard aport it is, sir!” the mate bellowed from
the wheelhouse.
Hayes confronted the trembling Paterson almost
fiercely now. “You’ll share Mr. Emery’s watch,
young fellow. You’ll jump like hell’s hatches when
an order’s given. This is your picnic, not mine.”
Then in a somewhat kinder tone: “I knew her when
she was no higher than my knee, over there in Bel-
more Park, among the wagons and the circus ponies.
Keep your head, my lad. Speed and brains will
shake the hinges of Hades. Stand by!”
CTIXTEEN hours after leaving Apia Harbor Hayes
’'“'came upon Paterson stumbling from his cabin
door. The face of the young trader revealed the
torture of mind he was enduring, although the
Leonora was leaping like a hound towards the
thunderbelts of Latanga.
“No sleep?” the buccaneer questioned sharply,
fqr he was not inclined to encourage self-pity or
despair in any man.
Paterson gulped a breath of air as he staggered
to the rail. “Sleep! I’ve been in hell for the last
twelve hours. Kind of nightmare, with Sue and
Dixon in the background. I’ve seen her running
round and round the reef with that maniac murderer
in full cry. Hours and hours of it, Captain Hayes.
And the maniac never tires. I could almost hear
“How in Hades did you get ashore in those hobbles when the others Were drowned like rats.”


ON THE REEF
ALBERT DORRINCTON
Sue’s screams for help as he followed her to the
end of the reef. The end of the reef!”
Hayes suppressed a bitter oath ; then flung an
order to the sobbing figure near the rail. “Your trick
at the wheel, Mr. Paterson! Lively now. No time
for dreamers aboard my ship. Keep her up to the
wind,” he snapped as Paterson swayed to the wheel-
house steps. “Keep her up to it,” he repeated, “and
we’ll knock your nightmare island out of the water
before sun-up.”
LINES of brine-white smokers showed dead ahead
as the dawn blew across the heaving horizon.
Away on their starboard- quarter clouds of seafowl
squalled and circled about a coffin-shaped blur on
the reef. Long grey rollers boomed and pounded
her ceaselessly. Beyond the outer fringe of coral a
ghostly line of puka-trees shadowed an inner
lagoon.
“Nightmare Reef!” the buccaneer guffawed,
taking the wheel from the nerve-racked. Paterson.
“Nothing to see and nobody home. Maybe your
little circus girl danced off the end of the reef;
maybe she preferred to wait. Not so much as the
flutter of a skirt,” he growled, scanning the bird-
haunted wreck and reefs anxiously.
Paterson braced himself by the house steps, jaw
clenched, the dew of agony on his fine face. It was
the buccaneer’s slamming voice that roused him.
“Down to my stateroom with you. Dig out the
two Winchesters from the starboard locker. They’ve
put a bellyache in more than one gaol-rotten tourist.
One of ’em for you, one for me.”
The young-trader reappeared carrying the two
weapons as the brig came round under the lee side
of the atoll where an opening showed in the reef.
Two boats were put over; Hayes decided that Pater-
son, with three boys, should land on the northern
extremity of the reef in order to cut off Dixon in
case he tried to make for the endless lines of half-
submerged shoals that offered temporary escape from
the wrath on hand.
Hayes took his whaleboat through the passage
in the reef to the shimmering sapphire-breasted
lagoon inside. Scrub and tamanu-trees shut out the
southern extremity of the coral belt. He sprang
ashore and turned briskly across the gleaming stretch
of beach.
The sun was now well over the highest atoll and
struck level with his eyes. Halting a moment on
the crest of the beach, he stared right and left for
a sign of Sue or Dixon.
A faint, far-off shouting reached him as he swung
across the scrub-lined reef. Eastward he beheld the
slim outline of Sue running in the direction of Pater-
son’s boat. She was calling out now, waving her
arms frantically as she ran.
The buccaneer barely repressed a yell of joy
as he watched Paterson manoeuvre the boat cleverly
alongside the shoal. A moment later he had leaped
out and was holding Sue in his arms.
“Looks like home, sweet home, now,” Hayes
chuckled. “But before we sing ‘Auld Lang Syne’
we’ll have a look at Dixon and see what he’s been
eating.”
T N one of the sheltered suntraps on the western limit
1 of the shoal he came upon Dixon, outsprawled
like a giant squid in the warm rays.
Bailey Dixon! Handcuffed and heavily leg-
ifoned! At sound of the buccaneer’s steps crunch-
ing on the coral, he sat up with many jerks and
grunts. His face was lank and hairless ; the straight
gash of a mouth opened and snapped tight again as
he glared at the buccaneer.
It was the handcuffed wrists and hands attracted
Hayes. Long, fleshless hands that hung impassive as
dingo traps from the updrawn knees, flexible as
rubber, hairless as snakes. The ankle irons had bitten
into his flesh ; ponderous, rusty from contact with
the sea, they rattled and grated like door hinges at
each sudden movement. >
Yet the buccaneer saw only the raw, squiddy
hands dangling from the updrawn knees.
“So ... you’re Bailey Dixon?” he greeted
hoarsely.
The scaffolding of bone and sinew hunched itself,
the slat eyes exploring the big seaman with the rifle.
“Yes, I’m Dixon. I’ll make a shot in saying
you’re Hayes. What you want here, Bully? Turned
policeman, eh?”
The buccaneer ignored the remarks. “How in
Hades did you get ashore in those hobbies,” be
snapped, “when the others were drowned like rats?”
A spasm-like grin widened the gash in Dixon’s
jaws. “It’s going to be dry under my feet when /
fall through. Bully. Hardly got my toes wet,” he
added sullenly, indicating his ragged canvas shoes
and scarecrow pants.
“The schooner was drunk,” he went on jeeringly.
“Drunken old skipper and mate ; everybody drunk,
even the cockroaches that climbed up my legs look-
ing for a dry spot when a forty-foot smoker filled
us up.
“Me, having a price on my head, Bully, was as
hard to drown as Noah’s pet fish.
The Germans want me in Apia, the
Yanks want me in ’Frisco. And
there’s a long-nosed hangman in
Sydney who has threatened to
resign if anyone else is going to
interfere with my neck.”
A suppressed chuckle escaped
the waiting buccaneer. “I want to
hear how you bounced out of that
wreck with those anchor chains
on,” he demanded again. “I’m
listening.”
Dixon eased his position on
coral, his long, limp hands pendu-
lating almost rhythmically inside
the bracelets of steel.
“One of the two native con-
stables who escorted me in the
Mary Ellis helped me into a boat. The other
one, Malopo, was sick in his cabin. Malopo
had the key of my irons and we didn’t remember it
until our boat struck the reef. I offered the nigger
fifty quid if he’d go back through the surf and get
the keys. He took it on and I never saw him again.”
“And the girl, Miss Sellars!” Hayes cried out.
“No thought of her?”
Dixon grinned apishly. “She does her own think-
ing, Bully. An hour before we struck she’d grabbed
the only lifebelt under the poop. Nothing the matter
with Miss Sellars, sir.”
UPON the windless, sun-blazed reef Dixon
squatted like a huge toad. Some empty tins of
bully-beef were scattered around, a fact which sug-
gested that someone had drawn stores from the dere-
lict schooner on the reef. Hayes spoke sharply.
“Miss Sellars appears to have been feeding you,
Dixon?” he hazarded.
The convict’s eyes snapped. “I couldn’t stop
her. At low tide she waded and swam out. She
got hold of a tomahawk and busted into the pantry.
Starving on a rock ain’t her line.”
Dixon paused to moisten his lips. “From some-
where or other she produced a pack of cards.
“To gamble with you?” broke from the scan-
dalised buccaneer.
“To gamble with me, Bully!” The words came
with a snarl as the manacled desperado again shifted
his position within the reef hollow. “I didn’t want
to play.” His voice was a wail.
Hayes regarded him contemptuously. “You poor-
spook. She was trying to pass the time. There was
no money?”
“Only two hundred and fifty quid in notes I’d
sewed up in the lining of my coat. I wish she’d have
perished out there, the copper-headed jade!”
“Easy, you son of a dingo!” Hayes warned.
“Your rotten money was worth no more than a tin
of beans to you. She got it all, I’ll bet.”
Dixon shook his handcuffs, wiped his trickling
brow with the back of his hairless hand. “She sat
where you’re standing, the tomahawk beside the
cards. We played poker. Me being handcuffed she
dealt for me. How in hell she knew I’d got a packet
in the lining of my coat still has me beat! ,
“I’d heard of her in Sydney,” he went on, “and
I’m convinced there never was a professional crook
who could hold an ace against her! 1 never had a
chance. Once when I moved }is if to get near her
she gave me a crack on the shin with the tomahawk
for luck. I haven’t been able to stand up since,” he
whined.
Hayes snapped an oath. “Here am I tearing the
sticks out of my ship under the impression I’m saving
her from a bloodfly like you! And now you’ve got
the nerve to say she’s rooked you of your pile! You,
trussed between hell and the hangman, bleating
about your filthy money!”
“It was all I’d got, Bully!” Dixon swallowed
the red-hot lump in his throat. “Two hundred and
fifty quid will sometimes beat the hangmam And
now she’s got it all!” A pause and then: “You’re
going to take me.back to Apia, Bully?”
It seemed a long time before the buccaneer made
up his mind. He paced the narrow ledge of reef,
brow buckled in thought.
“Dixon,” he said at last, “it’s
no commission of mine to carry
you to Apia.”
i “You’re going to leave me here
to starve?”
“No, Dixon. You’ll get a
fighting chance. I’ll send my car-
penter and mate to you with the
toolchest. They’ll knock oft . your
irons. You’ll probably find one of
the Mary Ellen’s boats intact.
That’s your affair.”
“Tucker?”
“I’ll let you have biscuit and
tinned beef. The mate will spare
you a keg of water. It’s going to
be a race between you and the
German police cutter. You’ve
been manhandling their settlers.
Believe me. Dixon, they’ll make a flag of your skin
and send it to old Bismarck.”
A sudden panic energy seized the cadaverous
Dixon. His irons struck fire from the reef as he
scrambled to his feet. In a moment, liowever, the
fit had passed as his blanching eyes took in the illimit-
able wastes of sea and sky.
“Not much chance out there!” he wheezed,
settling back into his old position under the ree£yall.
“Still,” he yawned with dreadful abandon, “it ? s a
dog’s chance, anyway.”
“You might fetch Penrhyn Island or some
friendly spot like the Manihikis,” Hayes hazarded.
“And don’t forget Panama, Woolloomoolooand
the Orinoco while you’re about it, Bully. This
is the hurricane belt, and not a place where it ; just
fans your whiskers. What about a bottle of square-
face?” he asked sulkily.
“I’ll see to it, ' Dixon.” The buccaneer heeled
away across the reef, halted abruptly and looked
back for the last time at the manacled, hunched
figure under the reef.
“They say you never used a gun or weapon
on your victims, Dixon. How did you manage
’em?”
Unconsciously Dixon’s long flexible hands slid
up from his knees with a slow muscular movement
that threatened to snap his trembling wrist-irons.
He did not speak ,as the tentacle-like hands opened
and shut involuntarily, slithered down again between
his updrawn knees. That was all. /
A grunt of disgust escaped Hayes. “You damned
strangler!” he called out, and passed to the waiting
boat.
HIS mind was filled with thoughts of Sue as he
stepped into the boat. . A dangerous little skirt,
relentless as a young hawk when a pigeon strayed
under her wing.
But this time the devil must have driven her to
stalk the manacled bloodhound on the reef. | Her
screams wouldn’t have mattered if once his octopus
hands had reached her throats Hands! There would
have been a different ending to the episode if Sue
had leaned a bit too far from her little tomahawk.
Back on the brig he found Paterson arid Sue
seated under a sun-awning in the waist, a small
table before them. Sue was eating a few dainties
the Chinese cook had hurriedly prepared. She
scarcely paused in her attack on a piece of-Tried


filleted bream as the buccaneer swung near. Yet
he was conscious of the color mounting in her cheeks
when Paterson stood up respectfully.
“A happy ending, Captain Hayes!” the young
trader declared with genuine relief. “Sue wants to
thank you for all you have done.”
“The merast trifle in the world,” the buccaneer
told him cheerfully. “And now you’ve finished your
snack, Mr. Paterson,” he added gaily, “you may go
aft and help those boys with the boats while I drink
a cup of coffee with Miss Sellars, and tell Mr.
Emery and Clews, the carpenter, to go ashore
presently and knock off Dixon’s irons. I promised
him some stores and squareface. The mate will
understand.”
After he had gone Sue looked up slowly from
her plate to the pair of steely eyes watching her
across the table. There was hardly a tremor in her
voice as she spoke.
“My word, you found me in time, skipper! It
looked as if I was going to have that chained gorilla
for a sparring partner!”
“You had him long enough,” he agreed, seating
himself at the table opposite her. “A night spent
on an atoll with Bailey Dixon is something for a
woman to remember. Gave you a shock, I guess,
when you saw he was the only baby on the reef
besides yourself?”
As she moved in her seat and watched the sun-
birds cheeping over the galley and deckhouse Hayes
was conscious only of the slender, boyish lines of
her athletic young body, the lovely prune-like mouth,
the fragrant youth of her. The buccaneer watched
her covertly as she slid her small fingers through
her masses of fire-bright hair, the lovely eyes and
brow.
“Your first night on the reef with Dixon, Miss
Sellars?” he prompted, his lips grown dry with the
passing ache of his own lonely life. “Two men on
this ship thought of you.”
Her eyes hardened as she pushed away her plate.
“Not much good to me,” she gave back, “with that
legironed sawmey sitting with the birds over there.
I couldn’t find a spot that seemed safe enough. And
him watching me all the time. I must have walked
and crawled miles, always finding myself back in
the same spot.
“It was the night I gave him one on the shin
with the axe. I was lying beside some scrub by the
lagoon when the snap, snap of his irons wakened me.
He was coming over the reef at a snail’s pace, and
I found afterwards he’d wrapped pandanus leaves
around his leg-rings to stop ’em rattling.
“The old moon was up, and his shadow scared
me stiff. Perhaps you’ve never seen a legironed
shadow creeping at you, Captain Hayes, black as
ebony on that white blaze of coral stuff. I lay
doggo and watched him come up. There was no-
where to run, anyway. I could take to the water
and do myself in that way. But 1 waited first.
“‘What do you want, Dixon?’ I called out with-
out moving. ‘Ain’t you got enough fresh air at your
end? Better not cross that bit of a line I’ve scratched
out. You might fall into the water.’
“He stopped and looked around, up and down
the reefs and over the lagoon. I thought he was blind
the way he missed seeing me in that dizzy, whizzy
moonlight. He stroked his chin with those spidery
hands of his and said something
about it being lonely where he was.
“ ‘Better get back to your
roost, Dixon,’ I told him, ‘or
there’s a bird here that’s going to
flap away and leave you to famish.
There’ll be no tucker from the
wreck, no water, no nix if you
drive me into that lagoon. Don’t cross that line! I
don’t like the smell of your irons. I’m going to
jump! ’
“He went back to his pen on the reef.” Sue
chuckled, reaching for a' cup of coffee from the
cook’s tray. “How did you get on with him?” she
asked easily.
. i #
HAYES was silent as he rolled a few biscuit
crumbs in his hand. It was in a tone oddly
detached that he answered her. “The breath of him
nearly choked me. I’m thinking of the poor woman
he did to death at Tongatu Island.” A deep sigh
escaped the buccaneer as he took the other cup of
coffee from Jim Ling, the cook.
“A woman! ” She stared at him. “I never heard
he killed anyone. They said he was just an outlaw,
wanted by the Germans for upsetting their trade.”
“He killed a woman at Tongatu for her bit of
money,” Hayes insisted gently. “About two hundred
and fifty pounds in all, to be exact, Miss Sellars.
He told the story to half a dozen people. No one
knows what he did with the money—blood money, I
may say. The sisters of the Marist Mission may
take over her five children. But the mission is so
darned hard up it looks as if the kids will run wild
with the natives. They’re white kids, I may tell you,
Miss Sellars.”
Sue sat rigid in her chair. All the blood had
drained from her young face. A curious listening
blindness had come into her grey eyes.
“Took a woman’s life for two hundred and fifty
pounds!” The words seemed to choke her. “That
fantod on the reef?”
“That’s what he did, Miss Sellars. Two hun-
dred and fifty was the price of the poor lady’s life ;
just a handful of filthy banknotes, smeared and
stained, I guess, with her heart’s blood!”
In his excess of emotion Hayes pushed aside his
coffee, rose from his seat at the table and began
pacing the deck, brows bent in thought.
Sue was on her feet, too, breathing like a child
under the lash as she faced him.
“Listen, Captain Hayes! I was five days on
that reef with Dixon. There was nothing to do.
Most women would have drowned themselves or
gone barmy. You know me, Bully.”
She gestured towards the reef where Dixon was
waiting for the mate and carpenter. “The sight of
him made me sick, too. But I felt sure he was hiding
a pile of money somewhere, and I went for it. I
wouldn’t have touched the dirty stuff if I’d known
about that poor woman. Damn him! I hope the
Germans will tear him up!”
With her cheeks ablaze, her eyes drenched with
tears, Sue, in her close-fitting coat of blue-and-grey
silk, was lovelier than the weeping Rudi Madonna.
But Hayes had turned away to hide his own violent
agitation.
He was suddenly conscious of her hand on his
shoulder. She had drawn a bundle of notes from
her sea-stained coat pocket, was holding them at
arm’s length, as though the sight of them poisoned
the air. .
“Please, Captain Hayes, will you do something
for me?”
He wheeled on her almost fiercely at sight of
the money.
“What can I do, Miss Sellars, with stuff like that?
In my day I’ve touched hangman’s
gold and dead men’s silver!”, he
cried. “But the sight of that money
in your hand simply turns me hot
and cold.”
“I want you to return the hor-
rible stuff to Dixon,” she pleaded.
“I thought he was just an ordinary
crook on his way to the pen, an old lag who d be
much better without so much money. Will you give
it back to him?”
There was no mistaking Sue’s anguish of mind
as Hayes stood glowering over the notes in her out-
stretched hand. The sound of the mate and car-
penter tumbling into the whaleboat seemed to decide
him.
Reluctantly his fingers closed over the soiled
notes. “Very well, Miss Sellars,” he agreed gruffly.
“It’s got to be done, I suppose.”
Striding forward to the port side of the brig, he
descended the lowered gangway and called to the
two men settling themselves by the small pile of stores
in the boat. Paterson returned to Sue in the brig’s
waist.
<‘ I ISTEN, Emery,” Hayes ordered the mate.
*—' “Who was it Dixon murdered at Tongatu?
You read the news sheets at Apia.”
The mate turned quickly at sound of Hayes’s
voice as the carpenter thrust a heavy bag of tools
under the seat. His brow crinkled in thought for
a space.
“That old German thief Waxman,” he said at
last. “One of John Caesar Godeffroy’s agents. Dixon
broke his neck and busted the old iron safe. Don’t
you remember Waxman, cap’n? Used to fire an old
gun from the tradehouse jetty to scare away cargo
hunters. You promised to burn him out many a
time.”
“So I did, Emery, so I did,” the buccaneer mused,
casting his eye over the stores in the whaleboat, the
keg of water, the bottle of squareface, the four tins
of bully-beef and biscuits for the legironed desperado
on the reef.
And while Hayes conned the few stores that
were to carry Dixon over endless wastes of sea and
shoals, the mate eyed the bundle of banknotes in
his tight-clenched hand.
“Might I ask, cap’n, if that money’s for Dixon?”
he ventured with suppressed eagerness.
A deep scowl crossed the buccaneer’s brow.
Emery’s sudden solicitude for Dixon’s welfare left
him coltf. Occasional lapses into the sin of self-help
was one of the mate’s incurable vices.
“No! It’s all going to the president of an
orphans’ society, which is me. On your way, smart,
now! You’ll stand by while Clews knocks off that
son of a gun’s irons. Stand by good and hard in
case he plays up. A humble enough man with a load
of metal on his feet,” the buccaneer warned. “A
jumping, twisting man-killer when he’s free.”
The mate examined the rifle Hayes had left in
the boat before answering. “Assumin’ he plays up,
cap’n ; how about it?” he demanded briskly.
“Anywhere in his neck will do, Tom. But if
he’s good and sensible you may help him to one of
the Mary Ellis’s boats. One with a big hole in will
do. Sheer off now.”
A BIG lantern moon came out of the sea as the
** Leonora spread away on the home tack. The
clang of a bell was followed by the soft intoning of
the lookout. “Eight bells and all lights burning
bright!”
The buccaneer leaned indulgently against the
bridge rail, his face drowned in the smoke of a
fragrant cubano. He turned with a shrug towards
the thunder-haunted reefs in his wake, Then his
hand stole down with a guilty twist to the roll of
notes in his pocket. But the troubled look in his
eyes vanished almost instantly.
“By the holy! If a shipmaster didn’t look after
himself in these islands there’d soon be seagulls and
bailiffs sitting in his pantry!” he muttered.
“Lines of brine-white smokers showed dead ahead as the dawn blew across the heaving horizon.”


Carefully-etched Character Study
HewalKs home With his wife
By
Don Edwards
Illustrated by GEO. H. BROWN.
PERHAPS she won’t come
at all, you think, and all
your high spirits go as the
last,few passengers walk
briskly from the station and the
electric train rattles over the far
roadway. Perhaps it would be
as well if she didn’t come, you
think, then; but you know
you don’t mean that. You have
seen three trains arrive in the
last half-hour, but you don’t
expect her till the next train,
and you don’t mind waiting in
the least.
Th#t is the most surprising
thought—you don’t mind wait-
ing. Standing there beneath the
awning you recapture the feel-
ing of elation you used to have
a few years ago when you
waited like this for her. A few
years ago; and the contrast of then and now
suddenly drives away your elation and puts in its
place a sense of nervous apprehension. For a moment
you almost decide to give up the idea and leave, but
you look at the brown-paper parcel clutched in your
hand and you decide to stay.
She should be on this train. Eagerly you stand
there peering at the hurrying passengers who emerge
from the dark doorway on to the street that glows
with late-afternoon sun. You see her, and the sight
of her drives your pretty prepared speech right out
of your head. You are confused. You start forward,
then step back quickly on to the pavement and stand
there watching her walk away from you.
This is the time for which you waited and
planned, and now you are doing nothing. It is absurd
that you should be like this about meeting your wife.
If you don’t do something about it soon she will be
round the corner and out of sight. You hurry after her.
It might be as well to make it appear as if the
meeting is an accident. That is quite a good idea.
If you hurry down that side street you can meet her
further along. You step along eagerly, your footsteps
sounding sharply on the asphalt. Nearing the main
street you walk more slowly and wonder whether you
have succeeded in getting ahead of her. You peer
cautiously up the street and draw back as you see
her coming.
“Hullo, Claire!” Timing it nicely, you walk out
from the side street and express surprise at meeting,
your wife like this. What a coincidence!
“Hullo!” she says, and her eyes tell you that
your stratagem has not deceived her. You never
could deceive her anyway. Perhaps that is why it all
ended in such a mess. But why go over that again?
Time has partly healed things, so why reopen the
sore? But the wound has not healed absolutely, not
quit 6 ; and, what is more, you know it never will.
Otherwise you wouldn’t be standing here, apologeti-
cally, waiting for your wife to make it easier for
you and knowing that she won’t. She stands there
beside you silently, keenly, so you make your little
speech that should have been made back at the station.
i i I SUPPOSE you are still with your people, Claire?”
* you say casually, but not as casually as you
would like.
“Yes,” she says abruptly.
“Still in the same job?” you ask, and after she
has answered you almost spoil things by nearly say-
ing, “How about us trying to knock along together
again?”
She glances at you quickly, and in that glance
is an answer in no uncertain terms to the question
you nearly asked. You shuffle your feet about and
try to think of something else to say. She
remains quiet and doesn’t help you at all. In
your confusion you nearly ask her the ques-
tion that you have been wanting to
ask for a year ; the question that
you intend to ask soon. But,
no, you will postpone the
asking of it for a time.
Later, when you have seen
how things are and
when you have seen
the boy. So, “How
is David?” you
ask.
“Very well.” But she is more on her guard than
ever. You sense her drawing away, her attitude of
defence. Just “very well” and then no more. She
could at least have told you something about him,
how he looks, what games he plays, if he asks about
you at all.
A hot anger works in you as you stand there.
You feel like grasping her arm and saying to her:
“He is my son, understand that. He is my son, too.”
Instead you shift the parcel from one hand to the
other and remark that it is a wonder she doesn’t go
home by bus.
She says that it is barely a mile and the exercise
does her good, so she always walks.
Then you ask: “Can I walk home with you,
Claire?” She glances at you and at the parcel, and
in an offhand sort of way answers, “Please yourself.
I don’t mind.”
YOU set off beside your wife, looking in the shop
* windows, at the passing people, anywhere but
at her. Nothing is said. You realise rather sadly
that you both have only one interest in common, your
son. You want so much to talk about David that
you won’t mention his name, and she knows that you
want to talk of him, so she won’t mention him either.
When you ask a question she answers it as briefly
and sharply as possible. Why should you consider
her any longer? Do you owe her anything? You
are a fool to postpone asking her.
These thoughts go through your mind over and
over again as you walk beside her. Then you reason
that if you ask her now you might not even see
your son at all, so you decide not to ask the ques-
tion until you have seen him. \
You cross the street, and as you step up beside
her you look straight into a shop window and the
first thing you see is a small cowboy outfit. Leather
chaps, holster, pistol, sombrero, placed among other
toys and colored ribbons, for it is getting close to
Christmas. “Do you mind waiting a minute,
Claire?” you ask, and
you dash into the shop.
The man has to take
the outfit from the win-
dow. From the shop
you see Claire watching
him. Soon you are back
at her side with another
parcel under your arm.
“You don’t forget birth-
days, do you?” she says.
She smiles at you. “Not
my son’s,” you answer.
She asks you if the other
parcel you have is for
David, too, and you tell
her that it is.
AFTER that you both seem to find it easier to talk
to each other. You ask her lots of questions
about David, and she answers them readily. Strangely
enough, though, now that things between you are
more friendly, you find it harder to ask the important
question. You would prefer her to remain as she was
at your first meeting back near the station ; cool,
distant, suspicious, almost bitter.
You know that it is not David’s birthday that has
brought you here. You have come to ask for your
son; to say to her: “Claire, I want my son. He is
as much mine as yours. I know when we separated
I said you could have him, but I didn’t know what I
was giving up. He has been yours for four years.
I want him now.” That is what you have come to
say but you haven’t said it yet, and now that she is
more friendly you can’t say it.
So you decide to postpone the asking of the ques-
tion till you are ready to go. Meanwhile, you walk
homewards with Claire and she talks about your
son, and the enthusiasm in her voice and the hope
in her eyes make you hate yourself and your pur-
pose. But only for a time. You harden your heart
by thinking back to the way she messed things up
for you. You even wonder whether she might not
have sensed your purpose and be adopting this method
of defeating it.
In the distance, on the other side of the street,
you can see her home. You hope David will be some-
where outside the house. You wonder if he will be
pleased to see you or whether she has turned him
against you. You would never forgive her for that.
Yes, perhaps it is as well you have come for oyur son.
T UST then you see him playing on the front lawn
with two boys not much bigger than himself;
a little man in a sweater and long trousers. My son,
you think proudly. He looks from the terraced lawn,
across the street. Your wife waves her hand.
With a shout he rushes through the gate and
across the footpath. You see the car sweeping along
the road, but your son’s quick movement takes you
by surprise. Your wife beside you gasps, and you
suddenly spring forward as your son runs into the
street. Too late ; you stop. With blaring horn the
\car rushes past. Then with a relief that makes you
tremble you see him running towards you.
Claire on her knees with her arms about David
kissing him, holding him as if she would never let
him go again. She is crying, too, you note. You
stand there rather awkwardly. You intended to scold
her for beckoning to him, for not teaching him to
be more careful when crossing the street, for allow-
ing him out of the yard at all. But your anger soon
goes and you realise that it was only caused by relief.
Your wife turns toward you holding David’s
hand. “Go and speak to your daddy,” she says.
You are delighted that she refers to you in that way.
“Hullo, Dad,” your son shouts and rushes to you.
Leaning down, you shake his little hand and pat his
head. He has your hair, too. You are proud, ever
so proud, of your son, and you want to kiss him and
hold him as his mother did. That would never do
though.
You wish him many happy returns of his birthday
and hand him his presents. He sits down on the kerb
and pulls away the brown paper. Soon he has the
cowboy suit on his knees. Proudly you watch his
pleasure and enthusiasm. Boylike he starts to rush
off to show his present to his friends without pausing
to unfold the other parcel.
His mother restrains him. “What do you give
your daddy for his presents?” she asks. He thanks
you and pulls you down while he kisses you.
You watch him run back to the house with the
sombrero on his head. You hear him call to his
friends. Your wife is watching him, too. “He is a
great little chap,” she says ; “I don’t know what I
would do without him.”
If you intend to ask for your son, to insist on
having him, now is the time. You remember how
your wife clutched him a few minutes ago, how she
looked after him just now ; and you can’t bring your-
self to ask the question. After all,' you have been
without him for some years, so you can endure being
without him for a while longer. Perhaps later on
you will ask her. So you turn to her and say “I must
go now, Claire.”
She doesn’t ask you to come inside. She seems
to have fallen back into her defensive attitude again.
“He’s a great little boy,” you add; “some day I’d
like to have him for a day.”
“Yes,” she says. “Good-bye then.”
You set off along the way you came. You came
to ask for your son and you only asked if you could
have him for a day sometime. But you aren’t sorry.


UHli
lltiplf
iiiii mil
. ■:
m
’’S
:
sJ§§
§H^|§S&
SSB
iS*g:|s
■Hi
&&
tW.
ssss
m
tAtf CXpftCS*
“THREE-THREES” LEAD
II
I •
Yachting and "Three-Threes" are each unique, in that
they both, in their different ways, give their devotees
a pleasure and satisfaction which can be neither dupli-
cated nor adequately described in words. The reason
for "Three-Threes'" outstanding popularity lies in fine
Virginia tobaccos, brilliantly blended to a formula that
will always be a closely guarded secret. Remember —
"The Secret's in the '333's' Blend."
m L VIRGINIA
kJ sJ sJ cigarettes
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
4888-10-6
e
Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, and 1
Round Air-tight Fifties.


these full-weight romances, nor with the fantasies,
such as The Midnight Folk. The charm of Masefield s
fiction has always been its whole-heartedness. He
has tried to change his spots, or at least to paint them
over, but here and there they break through and
rather disconcert the story. The occasional touches
of fantasy sit oddly on the prosaic tale, and the happy
ending thrust, in the romantic tradition, on this story
of tragic futility steals its thunder and leaves the
reader with a sense of anticlimax. Even Masefield s
prose has suffered a change. Its poetic glamor, once
so constant, is now only an occasional jewel, as in
the description of Nonsuch Farm:
Beyond the byre, at some little distance, were the
buildings of Nonsuch Farm, old even for farm build-
ings near Condicote. They seemed like the buildings
of a place in a dream, asleep, like the dreamer. The
white fan-tailed pigeons on the roof were asleep in the
sun; no noise of work could be heard; the only moving
things there were the fox on the wind-vane above the
barn slowly swaying as a tiny gust caught it, and a
thin, faint whish of smoke going up from the twisted
chimney.
Romantic Sheila Kaye-Smith.
Usually Sheila Kaye-Smith supplies the fibrous
stuff of life handled with strength, but her Rose
Deeprose (Cassell; Preece and Sons; Bs. 6d.) is as
thinly romantic as its name suggests. If it were not
for the interest that attaches to an experiment by an
author of reputation, it could be dismissed as flapper
fodder. It is in treatment that it fails. In outline
and detail it has its points.
One of its best moments is when Rose, returning
from a holiday, learns that her , widowed father and
her bosom chum Christian are about to marry, Rose
herself then marrying unwisely to escape the spectacle
of what she considers an unnatural match. The story
has another moment when a few years later Rose
discovers Christian in bed with her husband, Townley.
Clearly the nature of the story calls for firm treat-
ment, either comic or tragic. Sheila Kaye-Smith gives
it neither: in her hands it is sweetly sad.
That is the keynote —pathos, and again pathos.
At the beginning Rose is the traditional Sweet Young
Thing of the lesser romancists. Her misfortunes, in
addition to an unfaithful friend, are a drunken father,
the early loss of a mother to whom she was devoted,
an uncongenial husband and an imbecile girl infant.
She tries to drown herself and the child when her
husband wishes to have it placed in the county
asylum. She has partial success, is rescued and tried
for murder. The trial, like the story of the child’s
sad, brief life, is worked for much more than it is
worth. Rose’s consolation in life is a poetic love
episode with a man whom she virtuously sends back
to his job of building bridges in Africa, though it
is clear that he will be recalled to provide a happy
ending after the undeserving Townley has been
removed. Townley obliges by blowing his brains out
after willing his farm to Rose. The book ends with
her awaiting the bridge-builder’s return —“the first
move must come from him” —and mentally, notwith-
standing her experiences, she is not a day older than
when the story commenced.
Miss Kaye-Smith appears to have tried to write
something charming, forgetting that charm, like other
qualities, can’t be captured by direct attack. Her
books in her natural manner are not without charm,
but it is an emanation, an unconsidered quality. In
this novel even her handling of background is weak,
her hop-poles and sheep and oast-houses are like
features on an old-fashioned theatre backdrop a
perfunctory gesture toward the natural world.
Shakspeare on the Screen.
A look at the current talkie version of “Romeo
and Juliet” suggests that if William Shakspeare isn’t
the happiest ghost afloat he must be suffering an
inordinately long recovery from his last bout. The
treatment generally seems the sort his lively imagi-
nation might have told him he merited.
Beside this sort of adequate but not overdone
production, the recent attempt in England to present
Shakspeare on a copy of his Elizabethan stage sounds
particularly stupid. The plays might have been written
specially for this latest expansive but restrained sort
of treatment —“The Tempest” and “Anthony and
Cleopatra” particularly.
True, this current offering would be better if
Miss Shearer acted Juliet instead of Ophelia and if
Mr. Howard were more Romeo and less Hamlet, but
the speech of these, as of pretty well all the cast, is
a revelation of what natural speech blank verse can
make. This is even evident in the purple passages,
cleverly-arranged and natural-seeming slight inter-
ruptions in the flow giving the impression that, though
the language is supremely beautiful, it is precisely the
language the characters would and could have used.
It is in no sense stagy or archaic.
Where the lines are not such “set” pieces, but are
wholly a means of getting the play along, the effect
of natural speech is even stronger, due to the longer
interruptions there possible ; as when, for instance,
characters leave a table and walk a hundred or two
yards while only a few words are being exchanged.
This breaks the rhythm flow that makes the usual
stage effort theatrical; yet close examination shows
that it is verse that these screen people are speaking.
When it is added that Mr. Barrymore’s robust and
ribald Mercutio is so completely natural both in act
and in speech that he all-but steals the play, nothing
more should need saying on the non-elocutionary
quality of this spoken verse. Who has not suffered a
ranting reciting Mercutio?
Anyone who has long been compelled by the
state of the Australian stage to take his Shakspeare
out of the book is commended to this “Romeo and
Juliet” with this Page’s blessing. Its blessing also on
the censor —may the rheumatism hitherto wished on
him temporarily depart!—for having had the sense
to leave something supremely fine alone.
Edward Harrington's Ballads.
From Thomas C. Lothian, Melbourne, comes
Boundary Bend and Other Ballads, by Edward
Harrington, a slim but neatly-turned-out volume
(price 3s. 6d.), a credit to the printers (the Kemp Hall
Press, Oxford), the publishers and the author alike.
There are 44 pieces, many of which (if not most) have
appeared in The Bulletin during the last seven or
eight years, and have been keenly and widely appre-
ciated.
There is a ring and a swing about Harrington s
verses that have been none too common among Aus-
tralian bards for the last 20 or 30 years. Granted that
he never rises into the higher realms of poetry and
that his occasional crudities and imperfections are
patent enough, there is something about stirring
rhymes and sounding balladry such as his that never
fails to appeal to far more .people than would be
reached by finer thoughts more academically
expressed.
There is a strong following of Lawson in Har-
rington, and in some respects a wider outlook than
Lawson, for he served with the Light Horse in the
war and handles campaigning memories as effectively
as bush themes. E. J. Brady contributes an appre-
ciative preface, stressing Harrington’s simplicity of
expression as his greatest charm.
Readers on All That Swagger .
The volume of correspondence on All That
Swagger is an endorsement of the verdict of the
judges and a justification of the Prior Prize.
The first message received by ■•Miles Franklin, the
author, was a radiogram from a fellow-woman novelist:
“Cheers, cheers, cheers! ” It was followed by a letter:
“I’m deep in All That Swagger ... in love with
Danny, in love with the whole scene. The word
‘terrible’ seems wrong to me in its obvious sense-
but all books that really ‘come alive’, have the same
feeling that’real life has—it might become terrible at
any minute! There is that feeling in yours to me,
at all events.”
The next was from a fellow-competitor in the
competition offering congratulations to the author:
“After reading the first 15 chapters I’m more than
ever contented.” ’
“However did you get Danny on to paper? He
is wonderful. I know him so well; he seems alive,’
wrote the leader of a literary circle. “We are fas-
cinated by that story. The death of Clare’s husband
is the best thing in Australian literature —it presents
the stark fortitude of pioneering.”
Another woman writer: “I have not read any-
thing so wise or fine ... I would not like to tell you
how often it has wrung, not brought, the tears from
my eyes. And tears, again, are all too scarcely pro-
duced in Australian writing . . . But you don’t know
how I have felt about your work for Australia. All
the flags in the world are but a circumstance com-
pared with such a work as this. And the living style!
Oh moi! oh moi!”
One reader sent along the music of “Denny
Blake from County Clare” as he had known it many
years ago, and wrote: “Nullah Mundoey! Great.
Did you ever hear it called Waddy Mundoey? As a
boy I was told that that was the name on the coast.
Another I remember of that time (nearer 60 than 50
years since) was Wogul Mundoey and one Wogul-
leg Tom, who lived at Tom Wogul-leg’s Point, and
so ‘Tom Ugly’s Point’—told to me quite seriously
as a boy.”
This from a reader in Westralia: “Because you
have cast a spell by your story I make it my excuse
for writing for an early copy as the best thing to
send a relative in England for Christmas. It is all
so real, that story.”
From Melbourne: “Congratulations on the great-
est Australian novel yet written. All That Swagger
is magnificently conceived and executed. The charac-
ters are all alive, which in Australian fiction they
seldom are. The mannequins who have posed in
Australian prose fiction have constituted its chief
defect, but Danny and Johanna and the rest are liv-
ing persons . . . For a long time there has been a
bunyip of Australian literature called the Great Aus-
tralian Novel, a mythical creature which few expected
to come to life, but now your novel ends the dis-
cussion. No pioneering story can approximate the
perfection of this one. It is a resurrection of the
past, crowned with honor and immortality. I feel
as excited about it as if I had written it myself.
“Abler pens than mine will agree with The
Bulletin writer who said that ‘if your hero was
Danny your heroine was Australia.’ That last chapter
is absolutely the best in the whole book. You penned
with truthful, simple, tender, musical words a vision
of the future that is held by many thousands of Aus-
tralians without the gift of expression, such as was
held by men like Wentworth and Parkes, who had
some power and who did a great deal for our young
country in the political world.”
“I believe in this book you have given Austra-
lians something to be really proud about ... I
don’t think I have ever before read a more quotable
book. Passages of characterisation, humor, philo-
sophy, expressions of the Australian outlook, descrip-
tions from the ‘inside,’ in fact, everything we have
been waiting for from the Australian novel,” was the
opinion of a radio critic.
His view was elaborately endorsed by another
reader who picked out bits that appealed:
» Danny’s “fortune in, his sound stomach and high
heart.” And, his “unmolested” beard.
Johanna’s “reverence for producing males,” and her
objection to “a breath that made kisses a persecution.”
The brown entire that Danny saved, “brightening the
eyes of men dulled by the system.”
Johanna doing away with native flowers as weeds.
The adjectives: “sociable” roads; “cajoling” day,
etc.
“A day to caress the heart of a youth to be as water
in the presence of a maid.”
Danny “runeing” to himself.
Danny thrust aside by his children as childish, “his
eyes glazed with absence.”
On a morning in January, “when the century was in
its sixties and Danny in his fifties.”
Danny thinking it was time to be mending the fire
when the young couple were in the parlor.
The Fulwood sister, Mrs. Fitzhugh, being a social
fillip to her relations.
Hennessy’s hotel ascending socially with the widow’s
arrival.
Hennessy eyeing the widow “as he would a likely
blood mare.”
Danny put in the “ind” room because he was a
tobacco kag and a rum jar, and the Chinaman put in
with him.
The township hatched as an egg from Hennessy’s
grog shop.
The newchum who put a boulder in front of the
wheel.
To which may be added:
The pathways to the shrines of the saints grow smooth
from the feet of pilgrims long after the tombs of the
conquerors are smothered by the jungle.
And * >
The land “where the sun rose as the Promise of
God, and set as His benediction.”
It’s a quotable book, All That Swagger!
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Seed and Stubble: Margaret Herron (Angus and
Robertson; 4s. 6d.). A study of a farming com-
munity in the Victorian mallee. Realism —a trifle
overdone—-liberally sweetened with a boy-and-girl
romance. Immature but promising.
Song of Friendship: Bernhard Kellermann
(Bodley Head ; Bs. 6d.). A German soldier, returning
from the war in company with three comrades whom
he has invited home, finds his father dead, the farm-
house destroyed by fire and the district in the grip
of dire poverty. His mates —having no homes of their
own or business to attend to, it appears —stay with
him and help him to restore his fallen fortunes. True
love triumphs after many vicissitudes.
GENERAL . . .
Ideas and People: Clifford Bax (Lovat Dickson ;
Angus and Robertson ; 165.). Recollections and rumi-
nations of a man who has won distinction as a
dramatist. Authors, artists and amateur cricket.
Gracefully. written, but including matter lacking
general appeal. Offers the interesting opinion that
modern art is the agonised death-scream of the painter
from the blind alley up which the photographer has
driven him.
Tropic Fever: Ladislao Szekely (Hamish Hamil-
ton ; 10s. 6d.). Experiences of a young Hungarian
in the employ of a tobacco company in Sumatra.
Gruelling work, humidity, snakes, tigers, black
mistresses, native laborers and holidays in a seaport
town. Covers a good deal of previously-wofked
ground, but does it well.
The Garden of the Hesperides: Forepoint Severn
(Blackwood; 7s. 6d.). Recollections of travel and
military and sporting life by a retired colonel. Style
friendly and spirited, but author inclined to forget
that what interests him personally may have little
general appeal— e.g., the inclusion of a treatise on
apple culture in England, the author’s present occu-
pation.
My Ten Years in a Quandary and How They
Grew: Robert Benchley (Harpers; 7s. 6d. net).
Pleasant trifles on a hundred or so fantastic topics,
from frog-farming to Judgment Day rehearsal, war-
ranted to lightly amuse even a statue of Queen
Victoria. Author is American, but the humor is
English enough to have been gathered from “Punch.”
DIARIES . . .
Woods’, who have been making their Australian
diaries for 52 years, send along a selection of the 84
varieties they have done for 1937. In addition to
being admirably designed for their purpose, they
include calendars for nine years ahead and a solid
lot of information on rates, taxes, holidays, postal
matters and the like. Bindings are neat and solid.
CRIME AND DETECTION ...
Where Is Barbara Prentice ?: Miles Burton;
Collins, Crime Club ; 7s. 6d.). A hint that all is not
well with this lady is gathered when a train steams
into Wroxley with part of a fur coat on the engine’s
offside buffer. A doctor’s wife, she’s had affairs with
at least two young men. No. 1 problem is finding the
body ; that accomplished—it’s been planted in a most
unexpected place—the local cops, with Scotland Yard
assistance, ingeniously pin the villain. Quite a good
one.
BOOKS RECOMMENDED.
Fiction; Shining Scabbard, R. C. Hutchin-
son (Cassell); All That Swagger, Miles Franklin
(The Bulletin); One Monsoon Night, “Shali-
mar” (Blackwood); Jungfrau, Dymphna Cusack
(The Bulletin) ; Europa, Robera Briffauk
(Robert Hale); Gunnar's Daughter, Sigrid Undsbt
(Cassell). General: Our Lords and Masters,
“The Unofficial Observer” (Hale); Wonders of
the Great Barrier Reef, T. C. Roughley (Angus
and Robertson); The Anatomy of Frustration,
H. G. Wells (Cresset Press); Sentenced to Adven-
ture, Serge Zolo (Harrap); Flight to Hell, Hans
Bertram (Hamilton). >


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
:■; i . M ■
g ... a | , | . . |
PJHHI
mam
saute
mm
BMH
JP*r
#ppg
3%;
mm
11
m
ss
SX'V
li
■
m
m
Sts V
«
II
H|
Wk
m
m
1
V,
m
m
m
mm
. sy
NX
v r
: MM
■
m
■ I
m
mam
mm
■
■I
I®
|||§§§|g§|B
m
m
mm
M
■>l
n
i
■
'v
isS
I
H
■
>5
rf%L
V
site
i§
Bl
■
■
1131 ;
H
: ffij
H H
*
H
wmm
■
i
K
■
i
SSn
H
..' • : >.
SMH|
lillßllSi
■H - H
mm
wmm
si
m
■
■■: "I •
HH
ill
■
i
■
si#s>S'§s
' 9B .
iiill
IIiIIiMIIIHI
u
Hi
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2968.
December 30, 1936.
“MARCHING OUT OF OUR LIVES THEY GO.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,.
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia.: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s:; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
TWO QUEENSLAND BY-ELECTIONS.
What Queensland thought of Mr. Bruce’s leadership
was demonstrated in 1925, when it elected one
opponent, and in 1928, when it elected a second.
Thirteen seats were vacant on the first occasion and
14 on the other. What Queensland thinks of what
is called Mr.. Lyons’s leadership has been demon-
strated at two by-elections held this month.
In Kennedy no follower of Mr. Lyons could be
induced to nominate, though Mr. Grosvenor Francis
won Kennedy as a Bruce man. In Darling Downs
Mr. Lyons’s party put up as good a candidate as it
could get:,Mr. J. D. Annand, Toowoomba’s Mayor
and its M.L.A. for a term, a returned soldier withal.
With five men in the field, Mr. Annand failed to get
a fifth of the effective first votes. He was eliminated
after the third count.
The Attorney-General visited the electorate on
Mr. Annand’s behalf, and spoke with all the eloquence
at his command, which is considerable, although
widely different audiences have adjudged it uncon-
vincing. He seconded his efforts in a speech broad-
cast from Sydney. The Treasurer followed with one
broadcast from Canberra. Other U.A.P. lions gave
a passable imitation of roaring in Mr. Annand’s
interest round about Toowoomba and Warwick. The
candidate himself did not loaf on the job. There are
73 polling-places in the electorate, and he uplifted
his voice at 58.
Last came the Prime Minister with a telegraphed
appeal to the electors to “show their confidence in the
party which has represented Darling Downs since
Federation; the party which has led Australia from
the economic chaos which existed a few years ago
and which is continuing to guide it along safe and
sound lines of administration and finance.” In point
of fact, no one party had “represented Darling Downs
since Federation” ; the late Mr. Groom, the member
since 1901, was Deakin Protectionist, Liberal (after
the fusion with Freetraders), Nationalist, Indepen-
dent and, lastly, U.A.P. But nobody chided the Prime
Minister for having taken liberties with political
history. The electors did all the chiding that was
necessary when they gave the representative of his
party 8446 votes out of 42,364 counted and left him
with two followers from Queensland, whereas Mr.
Bruce had nine.
It may be a comfort to Mr. Lyons to reflect
that the loss of the seat will not mean the loss of a
vote on a division while the U.A.P.-U.C.P. alliance
lasts. For Mr, A. W. Fadden, the new member, is
U.C.P. (though he was called C.P.N. in the Queens-
land Assembly when he was an Assemblyman and
there was a C.P.N. party), and his record does not
at all suggest that he will go to Canberra with the
idea of kicking over the traces. Still, the U.A.P. had
a majority of its own before the general election
two years ago. The arrangement with the Agrarians
was forced on it, and the surrender to them in the
case of Mrs. Freer has compelled it to give up even
the pretence of being the predominant partner. It
must be a mortifying thing to lose a by-election so
ingloriously after choosing peace with humiliation.
Mr. Fadden was helped to victory by his local
reputation as an authority on financial and taxation
matters and by the active assistance of Opposition-
leader Maher and ex-Premier Moore, whose Assembly
electorates are subdivisions of Darling Downs. Mr.
Buchanan, the Labor man, was handicapped by the
resentment felt all over Queensland at the Assembly
salary grab, which coincided with the beginning of
his campaign, and which was dated back to July 1 —
a fact which enabled every member to draw an extra
£75 or so by Christmas. Political Labor-unions joined
in the outcry against this measure, which obviously
told also against Mr. W. J. F. Riordan, who failed of
an absolute majority in Kennedy.
Far and away the most interesting campaign in
Darling Downs was that of Mr. L. A. G. Boyce.
Member of an old Downs family, director of the
Toowoomba Foundry Co. and Digger (he enlisted at
19, was twice wounded and returned with a commis-
sion and the M.C.), Mr. Boyce boldly called himself
a Conservative, and came out with a programme
which to the collection of State-righters in the Cabinet
at Canberra must have seemed revolutionary. Its
main plank was “one sovereign Parliament for Aus-
tralia —one real Parliament and Government instead
of seven.” Mr. Boyce denounced pre-selection (“there
can be no pre-selection of a Conservative candidate,”
he said), and although the electorate is dominated by
farmers who were supposed to be all for “orderly
marketing,” he had the courage to say he was against
“the proposed Section 92a, as I believe it would
remove a constitutional safeguard which is necessary
so long as the State Governments exist as separate
Governments.”
It would breed inter-State jealousy, disunity and
trade barriers in place of the complete national co-
operation which is the aim of every good Australian.
In equally uncompromising terms, he denounced the
trade diversion “policy,” the exclusion of Mrs. Freer
and Government by regulation.
Mr. Boyce got nearly 6000 No. 1 votes. More
will be heard of this man and his “ideal —one Parlia-
ment for Australia.”
Research and Production.
Australia is well served by its Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research. Established by the Bruce-
Page Government in 1926 as a reorganisation of the
Institute of Science and Industry, which was then
six years old, the C.S.I.R. has done excellent work
at small cost. It carries on with a Government grant
of £90,000 a year or so, plus whatever pickings it can
get from outside sources. Fifteen hundred a year
is deemed sufficient pay for its Chief Executive
Officer, a scientist with an international reputation.
Salaries of 134 research officers averaged £440
in the last recorded year. Many a wharf-laborer has
earned more.
Now and then the C.S.I.R. gets subsidies for
“specific purposes.” Mr. McLachlan, the Minister,
has a craze for discovering gold and copper from
aeroplanes in places where plodding prospectors
worked those minerals years ago, and his enthusiasm
for “aerial surveys” has extended to the spotting of
“shoals of salmon” in the Pacific. The McLachlans
must be a trial, but they have to be humored.
One of the C.S.I.R.’s many achievements was
the discovery of a sure method of preventing blue
mould, the tobacco-grower’s worst enemy. Its
officers initiated the line of experiments which
ended in the destruction of the prickly-pear and the
reclaiming of a block of country the size of Ireland.
With high hopes and inadequate help they are tack-
ling the problem of the sheep-fly (the C.S.I.R. dressing
is the most effective so far found) and that of drought
nutrition ; but here solution can come only through
extensive soil surveys and experiments with drought-
resisting plants.
An experimental drought station in, say, Central
Queensland would return the cost many times over
if it succeeded in showing graziers how to save even
1,000,000 of the 4,000,000 sheep which the northern
State may expect to lose in the two-year drought
which afflicts the middle-west about once every
decade. And the development of effective afforesta-
tion in the plain country, bringing cheap timber and
abundant shade into areas which now parch into
three-foot cracks in every dry season, would put a
new complexion on a land where moisture conser-
vation is unknown, and the edges of which are being
turned into rolling sandhills by wind erosion.
There remains the fuel question. In this field
Canberra has mainly directed its researches towards
finding gusher wells. By the time the latest
grants ' have been spent £750,000 will have been
thrown down empty bores. Towards the extraction
of fuel from coal, several politicians have contri-
buted their researches. Coal-oil extraction is still
only experimental, and when it gets out of that stage
it will still involve the expenditure of tens of mil-
lions of pounds on plant which would have to be
concentrated in vulnerable positions near the sea.
Meanwhile, power alcohol is neglected except
bv two private concerns. One, the C.S.R., is turning
out a substantial gallonage by utilising sugar waste.
With the modern high-compression engine it will
not be long before alcohol is usable as easily as
petrol without effect upon the engine and at a mileage
cost comparable with petrol. For months of the
closing year a car was run on Australian alcohol in
a series of experiments supervised by The Bulletin’s
motor writer, the late F. J. Berry. Two other cars
in Sydney have been using power alcohol with results
which would be normal with high-grade petrol, both
as to mileage and general performance.
Power alcohol can be produced from almost any
vegetable product. Australia is blessed with suitable
land and climate and the most suitable materials —
maize, sweet potatoes, sugar. About 750,000 acres
of sweet potatoes, processed in local factory units
costing less than £lOO,OOO apiece, would, on Standards
Association figures, yield 300,000,000 gallons of fuel.
Cost and transport are the main problems to be
solved. Even now, with the industry in its infancy,
the fixed retail price of anhydrous alcohol in Bris-
bane is Is. 9d. at pumps, while the C.S.R. retails a
high-grade spirit in Sydney round 2s. In Queensland
it is compulsory to buy 20 p.c. of power alcohol for
mixture with petrol.
There is room for special organisations within
the C.S.I.R. to deal with the drought problem and the
fuel problem.
Along the Murray.
The Bulletin has had some recent references to t e
position of borderers in a country whose people, 36
years ago, “agreed to unite in one indissoluble Federal
Commonwealth under the Crown,” and resolved,
among other things, that “a subject of the King
[“Queen” it was then] “resident in any State shad not
be subject in any other State to any disability or
discrimination which would not be equally applicable
to him if he were a subject of the King resident in
such other State.”
We live in the Upper Murray district, on the
last half-mile of Victorian soil. Across the river is
the “forgotten province” of N. S. Wales, the inhabi-
tants of which are cut off from the rest of their State
by mountains. Regardless of the principle that rivers
unite, mountains divide, the border was placed along
the river.
It is rough on our N. S. Wales friends. They
sell and buy in Corryong, which is in Victoria,
or in Melbourne. They read the “Argus” and the
“Age” ; follow Australian-rules football; receive their
letters addressed “Corryong, Victoria,” and have their
babies in the Corryong hospital. N. S. Wales does
next to nothing for them. Nevertheless, they must
pay their State taxes to Sydney and take their cars
40 miles over the mountains to Tumbarumba for
registration.
For our part, if we wish to drive more than 100
miles in the opposite State, even if we follow the
river the whole way, we are expected to call at a
police station, show our credentials and ask for per-
mission.
Albury is lower down the river. If members of
the Albury Ski Club decide to go to Mt. St. Bernard
or Buffalo for a day’s ski-ing; they may not hire an
Albury car; they must get a dearer Victorian one
from across the river.
Across the river in their case means Wodonga.
A Wodonga doctor treated some patients in the
Albury hospital; result, a rumpus.
Before Federation there was a duty on cattle
passing from N. S. Wales to Victoria, with a heavy
penalty for anyone caught smuggling. The duty was
abolished when “trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States” became “absolutely free” (see
Section 92). So freed cattlemen must merely fee a
border inspector for examination of travelling
beasts and pay a penny in the pound for every
head of cattle sold in Melbourne. The money,
goes into an insurance fund for the benefit of stock-
owners who have lost cattle from certain diseases,
but stockowners in that position cannot collect
because they are N. S. Welshmen.
My earliest recollection of inter-State brotherly
feeling was in 1919, when N. S. Wales police sud-
denly appeared and barricaded the Bringenbrong
Bridge with logs, muttering “Influenza.” No one was
allowed to cross unless medically examined at stated
times. Fortunately the river was low and we found
a convenient ford a mile higher up while the police-
men fished from the bridge.
A mile from our place there is a 20-acre block,
which, although physically adhered to Victoria, is
considered part of N. S. Wales. Every time a head
of stock arrives on it we are expected to pay a
stock inspector to certify the animal free from disease.
As it carries good feed, and cattle are always about,
we must break the law at least 50 times a week,
especially as re-examination of the beast is required
whenever he chooses to walk back again.
Near -by is another block which by similar change
of river direction has become an island —in Victoria.
These caprices of nature and man are perplexing.
Half the time we don’t know whether we owe allegi-
ance to Mr. Dunstan or to Mr. Stevens.
It was proposed to get up a swimming carnival
during Race Week and charge for admission, the
memorial hall being in need of repairs. The only free
day being Sunday, Sunday was chosen. Everything
seemed to be in order till the ghost of George 111.
started up from the tomb waving “an Act” (1780-81)
“for preventing certain abuses and profanations on
the Lord’s Day called Sunday.” His very-late Majesty
was followed, as it were, by Mr. Dunstan, bearing
the Imperial Acts Application Act, which fixes penal-
ties for breach of the Sunday-observance law: £2OO
in the case of the owner and £lOO in that of the
manager of premises or property so abused.
An apparent stymie. But bush lawyers pointed
out that as the inter-State boundary runs along the
Victorian bank, and not in mid-stream, the river is
in N. S. Wales ; and in N. S. Wales it is legal to
charge for admission on a Sunday. On this being
questioned, the bush lawyers contended that the
swimmers would be in N. S. Wales and the spec-
tators in Victoria, wherefore we wouldn’t be charging
for the privilege of witnessing a profanation of the
Sabbath committed in Victoria; the public would
merely be paying for the privilege of sitting in the sun.
The argument is still raging, and we all feel here
that George 111. has more to answer for than the mere
loss of North America, which probably deserved to
be lost anyway.
Does the Commonwealth Government help us?
Why, the Commonwealth Government taxes us four-
pence on a telegram—a shilling everywhere within a
State —dispatched from one bank of the Murray and
delivered on the other.
M. W. T.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Abject Surrender.
Mr. Gullett chose the Christmas season to give
Australia the details of the textile agreement with
Japan. This was the only piece of good judgment
which he showed throughout the sorry negotiations.
At Yuletide critics are heavy with food and politicians
don’t criticise.
Japan is to buy 800,000 bales of wool in the
next 18 months. During the same period Australia
j s to admit 153,750,000 sq. yards of cotton and
artificial-silk piece goods, plus calico for bagging, of
which annual imports are round 20,000,000 sq. yards.
In March last Mr. Gullett stipulated that annual
imports of cottons and rayons should be limited to
75,000,000 square yards, and it was apparently taken
for granted that wool exports to Japan would not
be affected.
In 1934-35 Japan bought 709,686 bales of Aus-
tralian wool; in 1935-36, 785,000 bales. In return
for its guarantee to “permit the importation” of
533 000 bales p.a. it is to increase its average annual
exports of articles objected to (in 1933-34 its exports
of artificial-silk piece goods amounted to 31,250,900
yards), and is to have the benefit of a substantially
reduced intermediate tariff, with exemption from
primage.
Mr. Gullett has the gall to say that the “settle-
ment achieves the Commonwealth’s intention at the
outset of the dispute.” And Mr. Lyons says that
Mr. Gullett has done a “big job for his country.”
The agreement, in fact, represents an abject
surrender. Australia has been selling wool for
upwards of a century. Never before has it been
reduced to asking a foreign country to “permit the
importation” of wool.
In. a competition for hide, with the rhinoceros
and the African elephant entered, the Lyons Govern-
ment would get the blue ribbon and the champion-
ship sash.
The Achievement of Blum.
A man who has made good in immensely trying
circumstances is M. Blum, the Prime Minister of
France.
Hated by French as well as German politicians
because he is a Jew, and because he accepted Com-
munist support for his Ministry; embarrassed when
he took office by a nation-wide eruption of strikes;
with the League in ruins, civil war raging beyond the
Pyrenees, and a rearmed Germany backing Franco
and threatening the whole fabric of France’s European
alliances, M. Blum has remained calm and kept his
country out of trouble. Non-intervention is largely
his policy, and if it has not wholly succeeded it is
not his fault. By steadfastly adhering to it in spite
of the French Communists, he has improved his
Government’s relations with the British Government
—a great stroke of policy for France —and enlisted
the sympathy of the U.S.A.
Expressing his faith in democracy to a gathering
of British and American journalists, this able Prime
Minister closed on a hopeful note —“I do not believe
that war is inevitable.” An encouraging utterance,
though the danger is still great. It summons up
memories of that other wise Jew who brought back
peace with honor.
Industrial-Expansion Straws.
Indications of further industrial expansion are among
the best of the 1936 baggage that Victoria will carry
into Australia’s 1937.
The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation intends
manufacturing aeroplanes in Melbourne. This million-
pound concern, backed by four very efficient and enter-
prising Australian companies, will need materials
from other States, where branch factories will prob-
ably be established. Subsidiary manufactures will
grow with the central venture.
For the building and allied trades there are large
Government, city council and hospital undertakings
to construct in 1937. Private interests whose re-
building programmes were checked by depression
years show every sign of vigorous expansion.
These enterprises all centre in Melbourne, but
the December Wood Pulps Act giving effect to an
agreement between the Forestry Commission and
Australian Paper Manufactures, another million-
pound company, means the country establishment of
an industry whose raw material is Australian timber.
Australian paper-making at present depends
largely on overseas raw materials. By spending
£50,000 on months of research and semi-commercial
tests, Australian Paper Manufactures, Ltd., has evolved
methods for obtaining suitable pulp from home-grown
timber. The Act, sponsored by Minister of Forests
Lind, gives the company rights for drawing wood-pulp
materials from about half a million acres round
Morwell, in Gippsland. Construction of a £400,000
Latrobe-river factory will begin early in 1937, and the
plant will be operating midway through 1938.
Employment offered by these activities ranges
from unskilled work to that of the highly-skilled
technician and professional men of varied qualifica-
tions. Sale and distribution of the finished products
will open still more employment avenues.
The Second Hundred Million.
After the financial year had closed it was here men-
tioned that the tax-revenue of Commonwealth and
State had, for the first time in Australian history,
soared above £100,000,000. With the deliberation it
shows in these matters, though in few others, Can-
berra reserved the full figures for the beginning of
the holiday season; then it admitted that an increase
of £9,383,300 in 1935-36 had taken the total to
£104,599,120. This was equivalent to £l5 9s. lid.
per bead of a population that is growing very slowly.
The increase was made up of £4,862,700 from
Commonwealth taxpayers and £4,520,500 from tax-
payers in the States. They are the same people, but
Commonwealth and State Governments have long
agreed to pretend that there is a difference, and to
keep the fiction alive hordes of taxgatherers are main-
tained to assess and collect taxes on the same income.
Of the 6,700,000 people who yielded the
£104,599,120, 200,000 are employed by Governments
and 550,000 persons are receiving pensions, while
another 120,000 to 150,000 are on part-time Govern-
ment work or on the dole. . .
Australia is carrying far too many politicians
and public employees (many of whom minister to the
superfluous politicians) and boards and commissions.
It is maintaining an excessive number of Government
enterprises which eat up tax-money, especially Gov-
ernment railways, though politicians are so little
capable of learning from facts that hit them in the
eye that they are actually building more railways
spending in N. S. Wales the best part of three millions
on lines that will be insolvent from the turning of
the first sod. The marvel is that the people shoulder
so patiently the tremendous load which false systems
and the pursuit of crazy ideals have placed on their
shoulders.
The Abhorred Individualist.
Members of the N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation
have been told by their annual conference that they
must in future “strictly observe the regulation teach-
ing hours” and “not take part in any competition
that brings a teacher or his pupils into competition with
other teachers and children.” This is interpreted to
mean that there will be no more singing or gardening
competitions or drill displays or exhibits of school-
work at agricultural shows, although such things
interest pupils and please parents.
The president gave the “reason” for the ban—
“children are being made individualists instead of
co-operationists.” Individualists established all our
industries —except the Government ones, which are
mostly insolvent —and made it possible for N. S.
Wales to employ 13,000 Government teachers and
give them “regulation hours”; and —though other
“ists” are favored in some quarters —individualists are
still needed. And it will take more than Teachers’
Conference resolutions to blow them away.
Under the Harrow.
There are lessons for other States in the first Duncan
report on the Victorian police.
The man from Scotland Yard stresses adminis-
trative shortcomings in the upper ranks. He mentions
the keenness of a hard-worked uniform branch handi-
capped from the beginning by unsuitable training and
lack of effective leadership ; and, like many Victorians,
he has found cause to marvel at “the delay in com-
mencing investigations into alleged crime.”
Excuses in many instances are difficulties of transport
and shortage of men. In one or two cases these
excuses may be justified, but generally I find no reason-
able explanation for delay.
The C. 1.8. is supposed to deal with major crime
and the plainclothes branch with minor crime, “but
all crime, in the eyes of the persons against whom
it is committed, is serious and is entitled to receive
prompt and efficient investigation.”
As for the interrogation of suspects, severely
criticised by Chief Justice Mann:
The common practice is to take persons to the
office of the C. 1.8. at Russell-street. I am inclined to
think the necessity for this practice is over-rated. If
no charge is preferred there would be no official record
to show that a person had been brought to the police
station at all. This is wrong and should be altered as
soon as possible in the interests of both suspects and
police officers.
Backing up his only previous comment on general
police methods, the inspector states flatly that “the
public looks for, and is entitled to expect, considera-
tion, courtesy, civility and good-humor.” He suggests
a higher educational standard for recruits and greatly
improved methods of selection in the C. 1.8.
Frankly, I am unable to find how the selection
board came to its conclusions when dealing with the
last batch of applications or how, from the material at
its disposal, it placed the candidates in the order of
merit eventually adopted. Then, after arranging the
order, the board caused the positions of two candidates
to be reversed owing to representations by a junior .
member of the force, that, in his opinion, the qualities
of one exceeded those of another. This was done not-
withstanding an exemplary recommendation by an
immediate superior of the applicant superseded.
Reforms suggested are abolition of the plain-
clothes branch, doubling of the present C. 1.8. strength,
a training school for detectives, removal of the gaming
branch from C. 1.8. control and closer co-operation.
This indictment of Victoria’s police system
should be studied by chiefs in other States. Adoption
of some of the reforms proposed for Victoria —
particularly those relating to methods of interrogation,
necessity for good-humor, and the desirability of a
more modern system of internal promotion—might
save them future embarrassment.
Canberra Holds Another "Inquiry."
Mr. Paterson, the Minister for the Interior, is running
true to form. Presumably as a preliminary to the
appointment of Mr. C. L. A. Abbott, M.H.R., as
Administrator of the Northern Territory, he gave it
out last week that “the Ministry, after inquiry, was
satisfied that the allegations made by Mr. Blain, M.P.,
that Mr. Abbott was the mouthpiece of a group
which has been trying to forward a scheme for its
own profit on the Barkly Tableland were without
foundation.”
“The inquiry,” Mr. Paterson said, “showed that
Mr. Abbott’s keen interest in the affairs of Northern
Australia was completely disinterested.”
There are 14 Ministers, and it seems unlikely that
they were all present at the “inquiry.” It would be
interesting to know who conducted it and the nature
of the evidence presented to them or him. But such
information would be too much to expect of a
Minister who, under cover of privilege, branded a
woman as “undesirable” and an “adventuress” with-
out quoting anything to substantiate his opinion,
although he was willing to use any evidence that could
be furnished by Mr. Walter Hunt.
It has never been suggested that Mr. Abbott
was financially interested in the Barkly Tableland
scheme. Mr. Blain’s point was that if the prospective
Excellency was “even under groundless suspicion” of
favoring a plan under which the Government was
to lend or guarantee a loan of £1,000,000 to persons
interested in the Territory he should not get the job.
Webster defines a “mouthpiece” as
One who delivers the opinion of others or another,
a spokesman.
Mr. Abbott wrote a foreword to a pamphlet
which put the case for the loan or guarantee and
gave only one side. He explained that he was
“anxious that the public should know of the details
of this scheme, submitted by practical men who are
lessees, supported by actuarial investigations and con-
firmed by the examination of experts.” If in writing
those sentences Mr. Abbott did not constitute himself
a Webster will have to revise its defi-
nition. He is not an authority on the Barkly Table-
land, though he has flown over it.
The first duty of the new Administrator will
be to sit as member of a commission headed by Mr.
W. P. Payne, chairman of the Queensland Land
Administration Board, to inquire into the pastoral
affairs of the N.T. To appoint Mr. Abbott, who has
written in such a strain of a project involving a hqge
Government loan or guarantee, will be rather like
taking a barrister from a case which has been
“opened” and commissioning him to adjudicate on it.
The Commonwealth Government made one of
its supporters, the member for Werriwa (N.S.W.),
Administrator at Rabaul. That apparently is to be
sufficient precedent for leaking another supporter, the
member for Gwydir (N.S.W.), Administrator at
Darwin. In these matters inhabitants are not con-
sulted or even considered, and local knowledge on
the part of the candidate for preferment is held to
be unimportant as long as he is “a good party man.”
The Government lost Werriwa and it will lose Gwydir.
Australia at the first opportunity will lose the Govern-
ment, having “got it on the list.”
Ladies of the Lamp.
Murmur Florence Nightingale in the hearing of any
1936 Australian nurse and there will be a hostile
laugh; in Victoria it would almost invite justifiable
assault.
For Victoria, Tasmania and S. Australia are the
Cinderella nursing States, where the romance that
began with Miss Nightingale is still officially regarded
as legal compensation for long and heavy hours at
atrocious rates of pay.
Tailing Queensland by six years and N. S. Wales
and Westralia by a year, Victoria is at last doing
something, about it. A Hospital Nurses Board,
created under the Factories and Shops Act, will
operate in 1937; employers and employees will each
have five representatives, and there will be an inde-
pendent chairman.
The conditions it will investigate vary in each
metropolitan and country hospital. Roughly, Vic-
torian trainees average round 60 working hours a
week; in Melbourne this nets them approximately
£26 the first year, £39 the second and £52 the third.
Country rates average £lB, £24 and £3O under condi-
tions often more deplorable than in the city. Fully-
trained staff nurses and sisters get about £2 10s. a
week. A few hospitals pay more; others pay less.
S. Australian conditions, according to an Adel-
aide doctor’s October complaint to Premier Butler,
are even worse; the high incidence of chest troubles
among S. Australian nurses was attributed by this
doctor to long hours and heavy work.
Queensland and Westralian nurses work the 48-
hour week under their State awards, and are better
paid than in Victoria. N. S. Wales trainees have a
52-hour week with staff nurses and sisters on the
48-hour mark; pay is a trifle better.
Nursing draws the bulk of its recruits from an
Australian class that would be ashamed to work its
own employees under similar conditions. But there
seems to be a hospital “patriotism” that accentuates
the Nightingale aura of false romance and upholds
sweating.
In Melbourne shortage of hospital accommoda-
tion means that beds are always filled with acute
cases, and nurses are required to work at high
pressure.
Industrial ideals anyway have changed out of
recognition since the Lady with the Lamp soothed the
fevered brows of the Crimean wounded. Nursing
has passed through the stage where it was a voluntary
job for social lionesses anxious to fill in their spare
time with romance. To-day it is a major career for
Australian girls . . . and in at least three States it is
in a shameful condition.
Were Florence Nightingale a 1936 Australian —
with the character history has given her —she would
be leading nurses on a crusade for more material
gratitude and consideration.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Wai-Ben”: The water separating
North Australia from Papua is divided
into two navigable channels —Prince of
Wales Channel and Simpson Channel.
Some future historian is sure to make a
mess of that!
H*
“D. Empson”: Not a line has ap-
peared in print about the attitude of the
British Army to the Mrs. Simpson
affair, but I have a notion that it had
a greater influence on King Edward than
the opposition of the Church of Eng-
land. Whatever may have been the case
when it was run by old gentlemen who
had been Regency bucks, the army has
had strait-laced traditions for generations
—in the higher command, at all events.
Wolseley introduced them, and his ex-
ample was continued by Roberts, Robert-
son and Haig. Now and then an old
warrior might threaten them by such
sportive practices as publicly giving the
toast of “Our sweethearts and wives, and
may they never meet!” but these jocose
old boys never got very far. During
the war Mr. Simpson had a commission
in the Coldstream Guards, and he puts
up at the regimental club. The King is
Colonel-in-Chief of the Coldstreams, as
well as the Life Guards and the Horse
Guards and all the rest. References to
a Guards officer “laying down his wife
for his King” might pass in American
newspapers, but it would be unsafe to
drag them up at regimental dinners.
Edward might well quail before the stony
disapproval of the army, whose social
influence is still immense.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Egypt, it is cabled, has
let a contract for a new bridge over the
Nile at Cairo. I wonder whether it will
be endowed with the. magical properties
of the fine structure Diggers will well
remember. When this bridge was built
Mehemet Ali called for four girl volun-
teers to be immolated beneath the piers
at each end. These were promptly forth-
coming, and a stone lion was erected
on each terminal pier in everlasting
memory of the patriotic maidens.
Further, it was announced by the Holy
Imauns that for ever after whenever an
Egyptian virgin crossed the bridge the
lions would roar. I tried hard during
my stay in Egypt to find someone who
had heard the roars at any time. After
much research I was told of an ancient
Sidi who had done so when he was re-
turning late one night from a wedding
feast in the Gezireh, but endeavors to
trace him were futile.
* * * %
“Bremer”: The ordeal by bull-ant
which the English cricketers underwent
at Ipswich (Q.) (B. 23/12/’36) reminds
me that it used to be a breach of the
conventions there to ask the maid of the
moment to sit down on the grass in one
of the parks. Newcomers who extended
what would be an acceptable invitation
in Brisbane or Toowoomba used to be
paralysed by the indignant and scathing
refusal of their lady-loves. No Ipswich
resident ever dreamed of making such a
betise. Those desiring to sport with
Amaryllis in the shade did so in the fast-
nesses of the lady’s own verandah. An
alternative was to take her for a moon-
light row on the river. Sharks occasion-
ally visited the Bremer River, but one
was safe from bull-ants on its muddy
bosom.
* * * *
“Hamer’’: The usual pre-Christmas
slackness caused a commercial to make
a sudden end of his country trip and
return to Sydney three days ahead of
time, thereby missing a letter from his
wife informing him that she had let the
flat on advantageous terms and taken
a seaside cottage for the holiday season.
The commercial entered his old resi-
dence and was beginning to make him-
self at home, thinking that his wife was
out shopping, when the new tenant
arrived. Both were suspicious souls, and
certainly there was ground for suspicion
when one man saw another entering the
premises with a key and the other saw a
Last Lap.
stranger making himself at home as if
the place belonged to him. The bagman
rushed the intruder and, after a struggle,
hurled him downstairs ; the enraged new
tenant rushed back to the fray. From
then on they took it in turns to be hurled
downstairs, or sometimes went down to-
gether, until neighbors and a hastily sum-
moned police constable induced them to
suspend hostilities long enough for ex-
planations, which, of course, were quite
adequate. Like enough, they had a drink
together afterwards.
* * * *
“Yewsay”: If Mrs. Simpson can get
her third marriage fixed up she will not
be the first American to become the con-
sort of an ex-King ; a Miss Patterson, of
Philadelphia, became the wife of one of
the lesser Bonapartes, who had been
King of Westphalia. And there is at
least one instance of a lady from the
land of the wooden nutmeg turning down
an ex-king. The exiled Louis Philippe
of France offered his heart and hand,
with the dim prospect of sharing a
throne, to Maud Willard, another Phila-
delphian—Maud put it to Pop, who said
that if the Bourbon regained his throne
he would be too good for Maud, and if
he didn’t he was not good enough.
* * * #
“Jamwood”: The stunt press has been
robbed of another “sensation.” Late on
Saturday night a widow and her two
daughters, who live near the post office
at Yea (Vic.), were awakened and
alarmed by a drunk who was staggering
about the front of the house using bad
language. One of the daughters, !in
nightdress, coat and shoes, slipped out
the back way, intending to go to the post
office and ring up the police. She did not
return, and her mother and the other
daughter, venturing outside, found her
dead on the footpath. She lay flat on
her back, her feet pointed towards the
house, the arms outstretched. But there
were no outward marks of violence.
“Sandbagged” was the first theory, and
the “sandbagger” was looked for; but
the search was soon abandoned. On a
fence-rail auburn hairs from the girl’s
head were found. It was made clear that
she had tried to climb the fence, and in
doing so had struck her head heavily
on the rail. A thin skull, a fractured
inner bone, haemorrhage ; and the poor
thing was dead.
* * * *
“Freelance”: Miles Franklin showed
me a copy of All That Swagger in book
form and mentioned that she had just met
the Bishop of Goulburn and learned that
he had quested Sydney in vain for her
work —“none of the booksellers seemed
to have heard of it.” The Bishop, it
turned out, had asked for a copy of
“Old Danny.” “All Goulburn knows it
by that name,” he explained. '
* * * *
“0.5. T.”: There is a move in Sydney
to get schools to adopt some sort of -dis-
tinctive uniform. For many years pupils
of The King’s School could always be
picked out in the streets by their queer
blue-and-grey outfit with its kepi head-
gear. In England public schoolboys
must wear school or house caps which
identify them when abroad. Uniform
has never been popular there, though the
Prince Consort tried to impose it on
Wellington, of which he was one of the
founders. The get-up was dark-blue
with a cap on the lines of uniforms worn
at German gymnasia, and its life was
short. The then Earl of Derby, a Gov-
ernor, came down to Wellington to
attend some school function. At the
railway station he ordered a lad who
was meeting some relatives to get his
luggage and look quick about it. The
youth he took for a railway porter asked
him who the devil he thought he was
talking to, and that was the start of the
end.
* * * *
“Wang”: He was holding forth in a
side street to the usual audience, and
their entire apathy or amused tolerance
was evidently beginning to annoy him.
“Y’ stand there like so many dumb
sheep,” he bellowed. “What are you?
Products of th’ capit’listic system, down-
trodden slaves, vassals, serfs, chattels.”
A worried-looking little man encour-
aged him with a “Hear, hear!” and
the orator turned to him as a possible
convert: “You are int’rested, comrade?”
he questioned eagerly. “Too right, I
am,” said the little man. “I wish I c’d
talk like you. What I’d like t’ know is
whether you’d say those things to
women.” “I’d say them to women, same
as I’m doin’ to men,” asserted the °^
aggressively. “D’yer say tliem soiia
things to ye.r own missus? pursued
other. “I haven’t got no missus was
the reply ; “because of th capu si c
system I can’t afford one. ine nine
man turned away disappointedly. a
bloke oughter known there was a caicn
in it somewhere,” was his parting com-
ment.
* Gumm’s” description (B.
, ’ ; anoint-
-16/12/ 36) of the ceremony of ano^
in § a fl ueen reminds me that at tne time
Edward VII. Coronation it was
Q i fi ee n
solemnly reported that a piece had ton
<=“t out of the wig worn by Queen Alex
“ th f
the crown of the head Taking a t e
• w). made
a fanci(u| dra^j ng of Prime Minister
“Toby” Barton bringing the bit of wig
back from England as a souvenir pen-
wjper
\ * * *
“Jungor”: On behalf of one J. B.
Martin, M.L.C., who had stigmatised a
N.S.W. Leg. Council election as
“corrupt,” it was argued before a Parlia-
mentary select committee that the word
wasn't meant to carry the sinister mean-
ing it conveys to most people in other
words that it didn’t imply venality.
Queerly enough, though probably
neither the gentleman principally con-
, , • 0 f
cerned nor his counsel was aware or it,
exactl the same defence G n the same
count was put up before a Westralian
Royal Commission at the end of last
century. One Richard Robson, M.L.A.,
f G r Geraldton, had savagely described
the Forrest Government of the period
as “rotten and corrupt,” and had been
called upon to substantiate his words
before a Royal Commission. His
counsel, the eloquent Ned Harney (later
a Senator and, later still, an English
M.P.), argued, among other things, that
the word “corrupt” shouldn’t be taken
to impute bribery, that it merely meant
the last word in rottenness and decay—
putridity, in fact. But the presiding
Judge would have none of that—he
didn’t believe in disparaging terms be-
ing used in a “Pickwickian sense.” The
finding went against Robson, who there-
upon resigned his seat and disappeared
from politics,
* * * *
“Old Warden” : Golden Gully, which
has been abandoned after 20 years’
sluicing work, must be the most turned-
over bit of the earth’s surface. Over 80
years ago the first diggers set in on the
gully, which was afterwards to be known
as Bendigo, and took out of their small
shovel-and-dish or cradle claims wash
that held more gold than soil. When the
diggers abandoned it for richer-looking
prospects they were followed by puddlers,
then sluicers and, finally, dredges. One
would have thought it impossible to find
any gold after all that, but, working
on a mile of ground, the syndicate did
well. One queer feature of the long
job is the number of coins, camp uten-
sils, tools and other oddments missed by
the dredges and found in the boxes.
I SOMETIMES THINK.
I sometimes think—not fancies such as those
The Persian poet wove around the rose —
My musings deal with present joys and cares
And somewhat more ephemeral affairs.
1 sometimes think that never tastes so good
The malt-and-hops, or gives the kick it should,
As when it’s drawn directly from the wood
And served in pewter pots for chaps to drink,
I sometimes think.
I sometimes think how far, how very far,
From grace (and sense) our politicians are
When they assume the power to decide
Just what proportion of the human hide
Should be concealed, to meet decorum’s claims,
When sheiks and knuts and damozels and
dames
On ocean beaches air their, glowing frames.
A quaint obsession that, a. curious kink,
I sometimes think.
I sometimes think, in re this royal fuss,
It matters not a tinker’s curse to us
Another George should wear upon his head
The crown that might have topped another Ned.
The only kings I really reckon grand
Are that illustrious quartet I’ve scanned
(Alas! too seldom) in a poker hand.
These are of all your royalties the pink,
I sometimes think.
I sometimes think —nor ever sought to hide
My firm conviction at the Christmastide —
How far more fitly Britain’s storied fare
Goes with “a nipping and an eager air.”
Don’t for a moment think that 1 rebuff
Beneath these sunny skies my quantum suff.
Of smoking turkey or of blazing duff.
Still, there is lighter filling for a chink,
I sometimes think.
I sometimes think, with owlishness profound
Perhaps, what makes our grey old world go
round.
Love, fear, ambition, breathless, deathless hope,
The preacher’s patter or the statesman’s dope?
The paths of peace we sought with shot and
shell?
The new discoveries they ever tell
Of art and science—or the dinner-bell?
A higher force than all is printer’s ink,
I sometimes' think.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ampere”: Mention of the S.A.
Supreme Court granting probate of a
will torn to pieces (B. 16/12/’36) recalls
two queer Queensland testaments. A
racebook with a few scribbled words
written on the last page, signed and
properly witnessed, was granted probate
at Rockhampton by Judge Chubb. The
other case was that of a sundowner who
perished of thirst outside Barcaldine in
1890. Scratched on his billycan with a
knife-point were the words, “I leave my
swag and sixty quid in the savings bank,
Barcaldine, to my old cobber Rusty Col-
lins, of Listowel Downs station.” Rusty
duly inherited.
* * * *
“G.S.”: A Bulletin writer mentions
the possibility of Edward marrying his
Mrs. Simpson abroad. Is not this sug-
gested by a sentence or two in his last
speech as king, which came over the
ether so well? (Incidentally, it was a
thing that never happened before in the
history of English-speaking people, and
may never happen again):
It may be some time before I return
to my native land, but I shall always follow
the fortunes of the British race and the
Empire with profound interest.
In cold print they read like the words
of one whose intention is to become a
remote and detached spectator of events.
The Duke of Windsor may remain in
Austria or go to Argentina. Possibly
he thought of Canada; but for months
past he can have been under no illusions
as to what Canadian newspapers, British
as well as French-Canadian, thought of
Mrs. Simpson as candidate for queen.
A Toronto comment was typical:
The much-discussed lady comes of poor
but honest parents. Her widowed mother
kept boarders in Baltimore, which is no-
thing to be ashamed of, and Mrs. Simpson
has been twice divorced. Not the ideal
setting for a Queen of Britain.
This very frank passage, and another
which referred to him as a young man
who was “sacrificing his throne to a mad
passion,” may have prompted the late
King to sell his Canadian ranch.
* * * *
“Brix”: We were always told in out-
youth that the most famous example of
illegible handwriting was that of Charles
Dickens. His publishers, so the story
went, had the greatest difficulty in get-
ting anyone to read his copy, and when
they struck a youth who seemed to de-
cipher it by instinct they hung grimly on
to him and paid him a handsome wage.
He grew somewhat uppish in his unique
billet, and when Bleak House was ap-
pearing in instalments and the whole of
England was hanging on the fate of the
unhappy heroine, the specialist, after a
dispute with the firm, threw up his job
and disappeared. A relay of readers
wrestled hopelessly with the script; then
a contingent was rushed forth to search
London for the missing youth. He re-
turned on his own terms.
* * * *
“Fiona”: The Christmas Day service
in our small church had reached the
sermon stage when suddenly a stout lady
hurriedly collected her belongings and
climbed out of the pew. As she sprinted
down the aisle a couple of deeply-con-
cerned friends fell in behind her ; then
from the front door an indignant voice
floated back: “111? Of course I’m not
ill! I was ironing Henry’s cricket shirt
just before I came out, and I’ve just re-
membered I forgot to turn off the elec-
tric iron!”
* * * *
“Biltong”: General Franco has been
represented by the Spanish Government
as “threatening to rehabilitate his repu-
tation by capturing Madrid on Christmas
Day,” though if there is one date in the
calendar when the bitterest enemies
might be expected to knock off fighting
it is surely that one. Early in the Boer
War General Buller made a somewhat
similar prediction, to the effect that he
would eat his Christmas dinner in Pre-
toria. That was in November, 1899 ; the
Transvaal capital was not destined to
fall until June, 1900. And two months
before the Christmas of that year Buller
was on his way back to England.
“J.C.” (London): Re the bathing in
domestic-water-supply discussion. Father
Thames supplies the Metropolitan Water
Board for London use, and there is no
restriction anywhere that I know of on
bathing. Moreover, Ruislip Reservoir
has a Lido, so called, and not only may
swimming be practised in its waters
but speed-boats frisk upon its surface.
To give another example, every town on
the Rhine takes its water from above the
town, uses it for all purposes and then
“Could you direct me to the Aquarium?”
disposes of its filtered sewage below the
town, to be used again by the next town
succeeding it downstream. The Rhine is
fairly fast flowing, with plenty of aera-
tion to purify it. There are numerous
bathing resorts along the banks.
* * * *
“Errould”: Runaway convicts from
Van Diemen’s Land sometimes travelled
further than the Bight or the south-west
of Westralia. During the twenties of
last century the Recherche Archipelago
sheltered a small colony, mated with
native women captured from the adja-
cent mainland. Ruled by a gigantic
American negro, Black Anderson, these
early Westraiians carried their harvest of
skins to King George’s Sound, making
the passage in a large whaleboat, said to
“It's a depressed fracture of the skull, sir.”
“Good heavens, nurse, will an amputation be necessary?”
have been their means of escape from
Hobart Town. A rough prosperity
reigned for a time, but finally Black
Anderson’s desire to absorb other men’s
captures into his already extensive harem
led to his sudden demise —after which
Westfalia’s first settlement disappears
from history.
“Nordbo”: Flat-life in N.Q. has few
dull moments when half a dozen families
with their squalling children are herded
together. The other day Mrs. Spaghet
disclosed the presence of a stiletto in
her stocking after a little tiff with Mrs.
O’Murph. “You looka out!” said she
darkly. “Me sticka you vid dis.” After
this declaration of war Mrs. O’Murph
carried a tomahawk: sewing, it lay on
the machine; cooking, it had a place
on the stove ; it rested against her bed
at night. Nevertheless, I doubt if they
are likely to reach the stage of actual
fighting. I rather think the weapons are
intended to demonstrate that the two are
not very good friends for the moment.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Reports on the Spanish
civil war show that in spite of tanks,
’planes, gas and other up-to-the-minute
devices the rifle still remains the decid-
ing factor in war, together, of course,
with the machine-gun, which is simply
an apparatus for accentuating the power
of rifle-fire. After all’, warfare resolves
itself into throwing half-bricks at the
other fellow. He who throws most half-
bricks and throws them with greater accu-
racy and speed and from more advan-
tageous points than his rival is bound to
win. As the English infantry with the
quick-firing and accurate longbow domi-
nated European warfare, for centuries,
so the modern infantryman with his
mobile and hand-borne equipment has
dominated and will continue to dominate
present and future warfare in spite of
all the much-vaunted mechanisation with
its rigid limitations.
“Trevdee”: There are little flaws of
authorship to be found in most good
books. In H. V. Morton’s In Search of
Scotland I came upon this:
The three great feminine capitals are
Paris, Vienna and Dublin. But Edin-
burgh, London, Berlin and Rome are as
masculine as a herd of steers.
Somehow it recalls Marie Corelli’s “bull-
heifers.”
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: I sometimes
wonder what became of the military
police after the Armistice. During the
war I heard many bloodthirsty threats
concerning the fate of the Jacks when one
of them should be met in peacetime, yet
I never heard of one being fulfilled. No-
body ever had a
good word for them
—even law-abiding
Diggers whose mili-
tary records are free
from the slightest of
“crimes” always?
scowl and make dis-
paraging remarks
when the military
Jack is mentioned.
I’ll never forget the
look of horror and
disgust on a police
sergeant’s face when
a lad innocently
asked “Were you in
the Military Police
when you were over
the other side?”
The sergeant snarled
“No, I was in the
artillery ; and I’ll bet
that no member of
any police force was a Jack.” A news-
paper obituary notice of Hughie
Mehegan, the boxer, asserted that he was
in the M.P. It brought an indignant
rebuttal from the batt.
* * * *
“Erua”: A tenant who the other day
moved into an old house standing on
what was once a populous goldfield in
southern M.L., discovered an ancient
trapdoor with a ring-bolt, which con-
cealed a wide downpipe. Hidden in the
pipe was a collection of nuggets, all
apparently gleaned in the old gold-rush
days and stored against a rainy day.
With gold at present prices they returned
a tidy sum.
* * * *
“A. de G.”: While royal records are
being discussed Queen Mary surely
merits a mention. Has any other Queen-
Mother witnessed the proclamation of
two of her sons? Two sons of Matilda
(wife of William the Conqueror) sat on
the throne of England, but their mother
was not there to see either event.
x * * *
“Runa”: A M.L. woman, immedi-
ately after obtaining a separation order,
laid an information against her husband
for trespass; her plaint' was that the
gentleman declined to leave home. Asked
to evict the husband as a trespasser the
Court looked doubtful and adjourned the
case to consult its textbooks. The wife's
solicitor also looked up authorities, and
when the case was resumed he admitted
that the application couldn’t succeed. The
next move, per furniture van, would
seem to be with the lady.
* * * *
“Country Ped.”: Vic. Education De-
partment will have to indicate clearly
that its regulation in regard to saluting
the flag is to be carried out just as it
stands, and that no emendations or
embellishments will be permitted. The
flag must be saluted every Monday
morning and on Empire Day, but in an
excess of zeal or something on the day
of King Edward’s abdication a country
teacher made his school salute the foiled
flag at half-mast for the King who had
gone, and then salute it open at the
masthead for the new King.
* X * *
“Gumblegubbin”: The half-dozen
navvies who were cleaning a grass-
grown gutter in a suburban street
stopped to argue hotly. The storm
centre was a scraggy little bloke, who
was protesting that he was the sole sup-
port of his mother, grandmother and
two aunts. “That didn’t stop yer from
takin’ yer beer with the rest o’ the gang,
did it?” retorted a burly toiler named
Dan. “Yer ’aven’t been playin’ the
game, an’ it’s up to yer to resign.” “Get
a job on yer own,” advised another. A
third man chipped in: “If yer come
shovellin’ near me I’ll land a dollop on
yer neck.” Having some slight acquaint-
ance with Dan, I asked him what the
trouble was about. “It’s this way,” he
said. “We’re a sort o’ prospectin’ syn-
dicate when we’re cleanin’ gutters,
poolin’ all coins an’ other valuables
that’s found; an’ we saw that sneaky rat
pick up a two-bob an’ sKp it into his
pocket when he thought no one was
lookin’.” Dan spat noisily on his hands.
“Same thing as pinchin’ his mates’ beer,
aint it?” he snorted as' he swung the
shovel again.
THE POET’S PROGRESS.
1 saw her first beside the sea,
And so, betwixt my amorous sighs,
I wrote a dainty lyric on
The lashes of two lustrous eyes.
I met her in the purple night
When lovers have no call to speak.
Impassioned, I was moved to write
A sonnet on a velvet cheek.
We plighted troth, as lovers will,
It thrilied me to my finger-tips,
And, ere our wedding day, inspired
An ode about two rosy lips.
She moves my pen to verse no more,
The girl I gave the world to win.
The years have penned love’s epitaph
Upon her in a double-chin.
VICTORIA.
A.G.B.


0
*
20forW
10 for 9y
J.BSA
They*re Smooth
s' • ' ' -
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
%
*
m
A
- B
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
The U.A.P. got a dreadful drubbing
in Darling Downs. Its nominee, J. D.
Annand, though Mayor of Toowoomba,
didn’t score a fifth of the effective prim-
ary votes. A great many townsmen
must have preferred Boyce, the Conserva-
tive candidate. Toowoomba and War-
wick put J. T. Buchanan, the Labor man,
in the lead, but preferences gave the
seat to A. W. Fadden, of the Country
party.
L. E. Groom’s last majority in Darling
Downs was 10,488 —29,428 to 18,940.
Fadden’s was 6741—26,380 to 19,639.
So the Coalition vote is down 3048, the
Labor vote up 699. It would have been
up a lot more but for the Assembly
salary grab.
The Douglas Credit people have been
busy “converting” the cockies, and gave
themselves a good chance in Darling
Downs. Their man, Hannay, bottomed
the poll and lost his deposit. The news
about Mr. Have-a-heart, of Alberta, has
spread.
Overawed by the transcendent talents
of Lyons and Gullett (anyway, that
seems to be the U.A.P. version) Japan
is to “permit the importation” of Aus-
tralian wool at the rate of 533,000 bales
a year—roughly 220,000 fewer bales
than it has been buying. Australia, for
its part, is to buy Japanese cotton and
artificial-silk piece goods at the rate of
51,250,000 square yards of each. Im-
ports of art. silk goods amounted to
31,250,983 square yards in 1933-34
and 59,726,500 in 1934-35, averaging
45,488,000; imports of cotton piece
goods for the two years averaged a little
more. This is defeat with humiliation.
Good Australians will have to con-
tend in 1937 with a mischievous agita-
tion for resumption of London borrow-
ing. Largely because of London bor-
rowing Australia nearly went broke in
1931, but politicians have short memories
and never weary of dreaming pipe-
dreams as to what borrowing will do
for Australia. They are, of course,
positive that hard-headed old Bull will
rush Australian loan proposals which
Australians themselves have cold-
shouldered.
Victorian interest's opposing the mar-
keting referendum expect a definite “no”
from Westralia and Tas. Queensland is
regarded as likely “yes” territory. “No”
campaigning will be concentrated on
N.S.W. and Victoria, but S. Australia
is also to get a share.
Menzies went through the Darling
Downs speaking for Annand, and Casey
spoke for him from Canberra. Casey’s
effort was described as an innovation.
It was no auspicious one.
T. A. Foley, who was the party Whip,
has gone into the Queensland Labor
Ministry with the Mines portfolio held
by the late Stopford. He is himself a
miner, and has been member for Leich-
hardt and (since 1931) for Normanby.
Westrafia’s Government Lotteries Com-
mission was authorised to hand gifts in
kind to hospitals and the like, and its
favorite presents have been refrigerators.
Cases in which dozens of refrigerators
had been bestowed on different bene-
ficiaries were, mentioned in Parliament
when a Government auditor’s report was
read. There is a Government Tender
Board, but, according to Hughes,
- M.L.A., “after three years an officer of
the Lotteries Commission was still buy-
ing refrigerators without tenders being
called.”
It required no aerial survey to prove
that edible fish in great variety swarm
in Australian waters, but to the huge de-
light of Senator A. J. McLachlan, who
has been trying to find goldmines by
means of aerial surveys, the C.S.I.R.
has had one made. The surveyors
found shoals of “Australian salmon”
near Montague Island, and heard re-
ports about the presence of “the valu-
able tunny or tuna in Tasmanian
waters.”
It appeared also that the despised
bonito was identical with the blue-fin
tuna of California. And the north-west
coast of Westralia is believed to be very
rich in fish life.
Pearlers have known that for 70
years. The Japanese have also made the
discovery without any aerial survey.
The U.A.P. now has only two fol-
lowers among the 10 Queensland
Ms.H.R.—Donald Cameron (Lilley) and
Francis (Moreton). Unless more shocks
occur in the meantime, the House when
“ While politicians with no war service are packing their bags for the Coronation, only
100 per cent fit returned soldiers will be taken.”
“What mugs we were, Stumpy, not to stay home and qualify!”
it meets again will consist of 30 U.A.Ps.,
16 U.C.Ps., 27 Laborites, Mcßride
(Grey), who is U.A.P.U.C.P. or some-
thing like that and the voteless Blain
(N.T.).
N.S.W. Education Minister Drum-
mond, back from a totally unnecessary
trip abroad, was snubbed by the
Teachers’ Federation, which for the first
time refused to invite the Minister to
their annual conference. Not because
he made an unnecessary trip abroad,
but because his Government has kept
the Salaries Reduction Act in being,
though it has undertaken to repeal the
thing at the end of June. The Director
of Education was included in the snub.
This seems plain churlishness, and pro-
tests were voiced at the conference, but
the objectors were voted down by 93 to
66.
In N.S.W. and other States the Com-
monwealth grant to the workless
(£150,000 altogether) was paid in cash.
Nobody begrudges them the money, but
this form of “unemployed-relief” is
no more capable of providing perman-
ent work, which is what they long for,
than giving pennies to blind men. Yet
after six years of tragic unemployment
it is all the great minds at Canberra can
think of.
It seems a long time since an
American tourist ship arrived in Aus-
tralia, but so many Australian tourists
go to America that 600 or 700 have
been held up on the Pacific Slope by the
shipping strike. It’s a queer commentary
on the fact that a show called the Aus-
tralian National Travel Association is
getting £15,000 from Canberra this year,
largely to encourage American trippers
to head this way, and to persuade Aus-
tralians to see Australia first.
Truly wheatgrowing is a gamble. In
parts of N.S.W. growers are stripping
40-bushel crops, with wheat round ss. sd.
at ports ; and at least some of the lucky
ones will share in the £12,000,000 being
found by the Commonwealth for relief
of farmers’ debts. In Westralia hundreds
of growers haven’t even got seed and
their representatives are bombarding
Canberra with pleas for a special grant.
Abbott, wrote a preface to
a pamphlet issued by people with
N.T. interests in support of their appli-
cation for a Commonwealth loan or
guarantee of £1,000,000, and Blain,
argued that he had thereby dis-
qualified himself from appointment as
N.T. Administrator. Tummas Pater-
son now asserts that his Ministry, after
inquiry, is “satisfied” that Blain’s “alle-
gations were without foundation.” This
suggests that the Ministry will send
Abbott to Darwin. Well, the appoint-
ment will have one good result—it will
hasten the dissolution of the Ministry.
The benevoient Lord Nuffield has
found another £2,000,000 for good works,
this time to provide jobs in depressed
areas. That makes £4,000,000 he as
dredged from his private fortune smce
the Government at Canberra decided
that he and other British motor million-
aires were in such dire need that it really
must restrict imports of American cars
and lorries to help them.
It was queer to read the report of a
case in which the owner and tenant of
a burnt-out country pub applied to the
Vic. Licensing Court for leave to sur-
render the license. Application granted ;
compensation fixed at £525. If the fire
had happened in N. S. Wales the parties
would have applied for the transfer of
the license to the nearest city in the
hope of selling it for five figures.
“Franco’s mercenaries” have sunk a
Soviet steamer, and passionate demands
for vengeance are going up from Arch-
angel to Odessa. The vengeance is to
take the form of “united action by the
Powers,” chiefly “capitalist and imperial-
ist” Britain. The Soviet motto in these
cases is “Let John do it!”
Fruits of the Stevens Government’s
emergency-relief scheme, according to an
engineer’s report, include 100 miles of
concrete footpaths, 21 tennis courts, five
golf courses, 17 sports grounds and 21
swimming pools (“several more are
under construction”), together with the
lighting of the Sydney Sports Ground
for bruising matches, boathouses, re-
freshment rooms, “hiking tracks and
scenic drives.” Cost is not given, but
not one of these “works” will ever add
a penny to production of wealth.
Dr. Page proudly reports that “more
than a thousand tariff items have been
made free to Britain”; and that “78
per cent of British imports carry no
protective duty.” Yes, Dr. Page is a
Protectionist; he says so himself.
Mrs. Dewar has taken out a main-
tenance order against her husband the
lieutenant. Minister Paterson has consti-
tuted himself a Court of Morals, in
which only ex parte statements are con-
sidered, and Minister Parkhill warmly
supports Mr. Paterson. Perhaps now
Minister Parkhill will sack Lieutenant
Dewar.
A Canadian M.P. visiting S.A. for its
remarkably successful centenary show
has been explaining to fellow-members
of the Empire Parliamentary Association
that in his country “the relation of the
provinces to the Federal body is entirely
different from that existing in Australia.
The powers of the nine provincial Gov-
ernments are restricted to civil rights and
property.
“There are certain anomalies in the sys-
tem,” he added. Australians would
“chance” the anomalies if they were
assured of the benefits. Even to be free
from the maddening confusion bred by
concurrent powers would be a merciful
relief.
Employment in N.S.W. factories was
up 9000 in 1936, compared with 1935,
and Jack Dunningham, the Minister of
Labor and Industry, awards the credit
to his pathetic little provincial Govern-
ment —it “corrected the economic posi-
tion,” he says. As Tatt.’s Club says,
“Jack will have his joke.”
The newspaper story that the Italians
have established themselves in the
Balearics has been categorically denied
at Rome. Even Mr. Eden is apparently
satisfied that there is no truth in it; any-
way, it is not impeding negotiations for
a British-Italian understanding. The yarn
was the invention of a very clumsy liar.
Spaniards, whatever their politics, are
the proudest of all peoples, and no
Spanish Government could cede any part
of Spain and survive.


SHO'OL-QUAIWS BE FORGiOn
/; SMNOT B£E>4 SHUSH SAD OL VEAK AF AU-
COMPLAINTS OF THE SEASON.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Norman Dangar, who died in Quirindi
(N.S.W.) Hospital after a motor accident,
represented about the oldest dynasty of
the Hunter River. His ancestor, Henry, a
Cornishman from St. Neots, retired as
surveyor to the Australian Agricultural
Company in 1830 and took up wide, rich
flats near Singleton, naming the property
Neotsfield. His son, W.J., developed one
of the earliest pure-bred shorthorn herds
in Australia, buying a Stratton bull
named Lord Ducie after the ancestor of
one of the few Australian-born peers.
W.J.’s son, A.A., started a new herd
at Baroona in 1872. Norman was A.A.’s
son, and his Corriedale and Hereford
studs were placed on Palmerston, one of
the finest properties in New England.
He took an active part in the affairs of
the Armidale district and established the
Dangar scholarship at Armidale School.
He leaves a son to carry on the family
tradition.
Ernest' O’Sullivan, who retires at 67
from the post of joint manager of the
E., S. and A. Bank, joined the staff of
the old Royal Bank in 1890. He became,
joint g.m. of the E., S. and A. in 1928,
and was given seniority over his col-
league three years ago. A banker of the
older and more conservative school, he
plunged with zest into the nationalisation
of banking argument;
Reorganisation of Melbourne “Argus”
continues, but E. J. K. Thompson, ap-
pointed secretary, is not a newcomer to
the show ; he had been secretary to Wil-
son and Mackinnon since 1927, and has
been in the “Argus” office since 1907.
For a time he was secretary to the Aus-
tralian Newspapers Conference.
Harry Manning, N. S. Wales Attorney-
General, was one of the Stevens Govern-
ment’s Legislative Council appointments
in .1932 and won a seat comparatively
easily in the new Council the following
year. Immediately on election he stepped
into his present Ministerial job and the
leadership of the Government in the
Council. Before tackling politics he was
known as a hard-fighting K.C. with a
constitutional bent. He has represented
the Government before the Privy
Council, and still shines more as a legal
The N. S. Wales Attorney-General.
light than as a politician, though his all-
round fairness and friendliness stand
him in far better stead than the adroit-
ness of some more experienced parlia-
mentarians.
At 74 R. S. Rogers, of Adelaide, be-
comes yet another “Doctor.” He has
been one (Medicine, Edinburgh) for 40
years ; now he gets the Science doctorate
of Adelaide, for research and a thesis on
orchids, on which subject he is a Com-
monwealth authority, being author of the
Australian section in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica. Meanwhile he has acquired
also the degrees of M.A. (Adelaide) and
Master of Surgery (Edinburgh), making
a bunch of honors —all earned —possibly
unique. Rogers is a past-president' of
the Royal Society of S.A. During the
war he was O.C. Adelaide’s base hos-
pital at Keswick.
Some January birthdays:
Prof. Gilbert Murray, 71, Premier Stevens
(N.S.W.), 48, A. D. McGill, K.C. (Brisbane),
51, C’wealth Meteorologist Watt, 61, and Wing-
Commander Wackett, 41, on 2nd; F. G.
Menzies (Vic. Crown Solicitor), 45, and Vic.
Gov. Lord Huntingfield, 54, on 3rd; R. H.
Croll (formerly Vic. Educ. Dept.), 68, and
Judge Lukin (Federal Bankruptcy Court), 69, on
4th; Bishop Newton (New Guinea), 71, on sth;
N.S.W. Auditor-Gen. John Spence, 59, Prof.
H. Tasman Lovell, 59, and painter Arthur
Burgess, 58, on 6th; knight Graham Waddell
(N.S.W.), 60, bird-artist Neville Cayley, 50,
W. J. Hutchinson, M.H.R. (Indi), 33, and
baritone John Brownlee, 37, on 7th; Federal
Labor-leader John Curtin, 52, and Delamore
McCay (Syd.), 60, on Bth; artist Sydney Ure
Smith, 50, and Canon Crotty (Melb.), 58, on
9th; Bishop Batty (Newcastle), 58, on 10th;
W.A. Senator Johnston, 57, on 11th; Vic. Tax
Commissioner Chenoweth, 51, and Speck Hon.
Min. J. McDonald, 60, on 12th; Essington
Lewis (B.H.P. Co.), 56, on 13th; Min. for Ex-
ternal Affairs Geo. Pearce, 67, on 14th; ship-
owner W. A. Mackay, 53, geologist W. G.
Woolnough, 61, and J. H. Starling (P.M.’s
Dept., Canberra), 54, on 15th; Brig.-Gen. C. H.
Foott, 61, and S.A.-born violinist Daisy
Kennedy, on 16th; knight Clifton Love (Syd.),
69, and painter John Rowell (Vic.), 43, on
18th; platypus authority Harry Burrell, 64,
Brig.-Gen. J. Campbell Stewart, 53, and Rear-
Admiral Ford, 57, on 19th; K. R. Cramp
(N.S.W. Educ. Dept.), 59, Justice Webb (Q.),
50, Lt.-Col. Geoff. Street, M.H.R. (Coranga-
mite), 43, and N.S.W. Min. for Labor Dun-
ningham, 53, on 21st; former N.S.W. Premier
Geo. Fuller, 76, Col. J. M. Arnott (Syd.), 68,
and Bishop Gilroy (Port Augusta), 41, on 22nd;
Prof. F. Wood-Jones (Melb.), 58, on 23rd;
former Vic. Police Commissioner Maj.-Gen.
Blarney, 53* ex-Q. Agent-Gen. E. H. Macartney,
74, Prof. J. F. M. Haydon (Canberra), 55, Vic.
Min. for Educ. Dr. J. R. Harris, 69, and Ethel
Turner, on 24th; Archbishop Wand (Brisbane),
52, on 25th; Prof. A. J. A. Waldock (Syd.), 39,
Maj.-Gen. J. M. Antill, 71, Westralian C.P. and
Opposition-leader C. G. Latham, 55, and S. E.
Lamb, K.C. (Syd.), 73, on 26th; painter Julian
Ashton, 86, and Prof. F. W. S. Cumbrae-
Stewart (Bris.), 72, on 27th; Justice Kenneth
Street (N.S.W.), 47, Bishop Feetham (North
Q’land), 64, baronet Hugh Poynter (Syd.), 55,
A. Grenfell Price, M.A. (St. Mark’s Coll, Adel.),
45, and G. B. Rolph (Launceston “Examiner”),
44, on 28th; Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 46,
E. L. Frazer (Vic. Parliamentary Librarian),
45, weather-prophet Mares (N.S.W.), 58, A. S.
le Souef (Director of Taronga Park), 60, and
Prof. C. A. Scutt (Melb.), 48, on 30th; bari-
tone Peter Dawson, 55, Guy Innes (Melb.
“Herald,” Lond.), 55, and entomologist Dr.
R. J. Tillyard, 56, on 31st.
Hartley C. Grattan, here to study Aus-
tralian literature and write a book about
if, is an American author in his early
thirties. Born at Wakefield, Massachu-
setts, he became a lecturer in English
and has been writing since 1925, his
books including Bitter Bierce, Why We
Fought, The Peerless Leader: William J.
Bryan and The Three James. He has
edited other books and is a contributor
to the more weighty magazines. He
knows Australia fairly well already; he
was here about seven years ago and pro-
duced a booklet on Australian authors
in which some were knocked pretty hard.
Passed on at The King’s
School, Parramatta, the Rev.
Arthur Fancourt Mitchell,
cousin of Edward Fancourt
Mitchell, K.C. The gentle,
scholarly old clergyman repre-
sented the fourth generation of
his family in the Anglican
Church ministry. For 26 years
he was vicar of St. Augustine’s
Church, Sheffield (Eng.). He
was a fine speaker and wrote
several works on ecclesiastical
matters. A few years ago he
settled down in Parramatta to
be with his daughter, the wife
of the head of King’s.
Through the successioa of
King George a windfall of dig-
nity comes to Maorilander
Dr. A. E. Porritt, former
Rhodes scholar and Olympic runner. He
was surgeon to the Duke of York, and
continues as surgeon to the King.
Percy Everett, now visiting Australia,
is second in command of the Boy Scouts,
who now number nearly 3,000,000 spread
over every civilised country in the world.
Looked on as the inevitable successor
of Baden-Powell, he already carries most
of the detail work on his shoulders. He
was knighted a few years ago.
Ceylon’s representative at Adelaide’s
centenary is Don Baron Jayatilaka,
knight, vice-chairman of the Ceylon
Board of Ministers and Home Affairs
Minister. A Lincoln’s Inn barrister and
a graduate of Cambridge, he is a great
figure in Ceylonese educational and re-
ligious circles, having been head of
Ananda College, Colombo, and presi-
dent of the Young Men’s Buddhist Asso-
ciation. An authority on the local lan-
guages, he was chief editor of the stan-
dard Sinhalese dictionary.
Mungo MacCallum’s successor on
Sydney Uni. senate is R. J. Hawkes,
president of Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce for the third time. Hawkes is a
retired inspector of the E., S. and A.
Bank and an authority on the tariff.
For a decade he has given most of
his time to commercial organisation and
the affairs of the N. S. Wales Ambulance
Transport Brigade and Rotary.
Two S.A. pioneers aged 79 and 77 are
breaking all records at the State’s cen-
tenary celebrations by having their
father for escort. He is George Brown,
now a guaranteed 104, who has for many
years been noted for his remarkable pas-
time of steadily attending Parliament to
listen to debates.
The expressive face of C. R. Hall,
new secretary to the N. S. Wales Manu-
facturers’ Chamber, is nicely depicted in
this Dubois sketch. Hall is a versatile
person of outlook and energy, with a
A Manufacturers' Secretary.
knowledge of affairs and a bright turn
of phrase both in speaking and writing.
As a pioneer broadcaster on current
topics he had a big audience a few years
ago.
China’s new Consul General, replac-
ing the popular Dr. Chen, is C. J. Pao,
a Kiangsu native with a long diplomatic
training. Pao, a law graduate of Peiping,
holds Cornell and Harvard degrees and
is one of the few diplomats in the world
who can claim to be doctors of theology.
Once professor of political economy at
Peiping University and Education com-
missioner in Shanghai, for the last eight
years he has been in the diplomatic
corps.
Just returned from a tour of Great
Britain and America Thomas Jack,
Mayor of Dalby (Q.) for the past six
years. Of late no town on the Darling
Downs has made more progress than
Dalby, and the town council, under
Jack’s leadership, has been a leading
party in it. His main recreation is col-
lecting diprotodons and fossilised re-
mains of other gigantic reptiles that once
roamed the Downs. Many of his speci-
mens from the banks of Myall and Jim-
bour creeks are in the Queensland
Museum.
Patrol-officer Hough, whose name has
been added to the list of casualties
among promising young New Guinea
civil servants, was a Charters Towers
boy who became a Queensland school-
master. In 1934 he went to the
Mandate, and was schooling the natives
of the uncontrolled Morobe areas
until a poisoned arrow ended his career.
Last year he was chosen to do a six
months’ course in law and anthropology
at Sydney University, and returned to
N.G. only a few months ago.
James Melling, who slips into the job
of town clerk of Auckland, has served
a fair apprenticeship, having been assis-
tant town clerk since 1923. Melling has
done everything to be a good Auck-
lander except be born in the place. Eng-
land claims him in the first instance, but
he arrived in Maoriland in 1909, so he
is well acclimatised. In 1914 he sailed
as a member of the Auckland Mounted
Rifles, to return in T 5 with a serious
head wound as a Gallipoli souvenir. He
tried to join up again, but the military
medical people having other ideas he
took a job with the City Council. As
good a municipal officer as he had
been a soldier, he found time' to
help establish the Returned Soldiers’
Association. He has already acted in
his new job—during the absence of his
chief on a trip abroad.
New Federal member for Darling
Downs A. W. Fadden is better than the
average run-of-the-mill politicians. He
is an accountant and an expert on
power-alcohol. In the last State Parlia-
ment he was member f6r Kennedy, but
lost his seat in trying to find a softer
one. He has a nice gift in turning cut-
ting phrases, and once christened Forgan
Smith as “the McDougall of Deficits,
after the man who topped the score.
Forgan Smith returned the compliment
by naming him —a swift and ardent
talker —“the Larwood of Debate, a
natural bodyliner.”
N. S. Wales Public School Teachers’
foreign research scholarship goes to
R. W. Stanhope, of Parramatta High
School. He is a research M.Sc. of Syd-
ney University.
Tom Foley, Queensland’s new Mines
Minister, had to wait 17 years for pro-
motion to Cabinet rank. He had had
long experience of prpspecting and min-
ing for gold, tin and coal in N.Q. be-
fore his election for Leichhardt in 1919.
In the House he made his mark as a
ready and forceful speaker, and for
years he was Labor Whip. Runner-up
in the ballot for the portfolio (and only
beaten by one vote) was Jimmy Lar-
combe, formerly Minister for Railways,
who has failed to share in the spoils of
office since his party returned to power
in 1932. Foley’s successor as Whip is
Tom Williams, ex-schoolteacher and ex-
journalist, who speaks little, but is a
good organiser.
George Robey, soon coming to Aus-
tralia, seems to go back so far in Eng-
lish theatricals that it is almost impos-
sible to visualise the stage without him.
He began life as an engineer, and if vaude-
ville had not caught him he might have
been a first-class cartoonist. The Alham-
bra was his main haunt theatrically.
During the war he got in some service
with the motor transport volunteers and
did a tremendous amount, of work for
charity, as well as a lot of what he called
“bemusing the, troops.” In 1919 he was
given a C.B.E. A keen cricket enthu-
siast, he puts in an appearance at pretty
well every big match played in London.
His only club is the M.C.C. As a com-
mentator he would be a great acquisi-
tion to the Hill.
Napier Birks doesn’t actually stand out
of his collar in the fashion which
Coventry depicts, but anybody who has
seen him in a moment of concentrated
discussion can imagine the inspiration of
the picture. Birks has a strong face
NAPIER BIRKS, of Adelaide.
which at such times seems to isolate
itself from the rest of him. One of the
most successful S.A. motor business
organisers, he has been chairman of
Motor Tenders, Ltd., since 1911, but
took time off to attend the Great War.
Eric Holmes, taking a holiday from
the Mandated Territory, where he is
Director of Lands and Mines and an
M.L.C., is a Queenslander, born in the
Far North, educated at Brisbane Gram-
mar School and trained as a surveyor.
After his issue of war with the 9th Bat-
talion, he entered the New Guinea sur-
vey service and rose quickly to what be-
came a big job when gold was dis-
covered. In his younger days he swung
a hefty cricket bat.


gaSSSII IMBIM
■;
inn iiißii
■
■ IK
mm |
•' '•'■■■ '"i y '■■■■■•
Ill*
: HfIHH
m
m
<-a
1
>“ . j
>
l f:i
!
»**?
1 I
!?S” Si!
*> ... f • nS? _aJ
m
m
/J
Y v
\ fTOOMfcYsI
*r
m
■
Dig
:
in
.
\
-T \
M
y ■.
§«
>^w7,
Y W If i
*>:
,/ V
■Hi
i:” . :
V
■
on
V Jp
*
Hi
:9oh
£ys
'.f . f
14 CDFC T«l WW
1 E# ElEw
WHEN GOOD FELLOWS MEET
Agents
TOOHEYS LTD.
VICTORIA: Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne
QUEENSLAND: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Standard Brewery, Sydney
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Clio”: Although Australia’s “bright
flowers” may not be scentless, new
arrivals here find the perfume much
fainter than in colder climes. I at first
thought Australian violets devoid of per-
fume ; roses and carnations also seemed
to have lost their scent, and buddleia, a
shrub that in M.L. gives forth such an
overpowering scent that it is impossible
to sit in a room with it, could be used
in decoration here without any unpleasant
effects. A M.L. garden of mixed blooms
will give off an amazingly strong scent
on a warm night, but I have never found
an Australian garden produce more than
a faint, pleasant odor. Probably it’s
climate, the damper weather in England
and M.L. giving the same flowers a
stronger scent than they have in the
drier air of Australia.
* * t- • *
“Nordbo”: Howard, a small mining
town near Maryborough (Q.), presents a
weird appearance to the stranger. As
the colliery is eight miles away, and fired
miners are not disposed to travel that
distance often, the streets are mostly
deserted. On the shelves of the two pub
bars the usual arrays of liquor bottles
are absent. In their place stand rows of
square-shaped containers, each bearing
the name of a miner. On their way to
school of a morning children leave dad’s
empty beer container ; in the afternoon
they return home with it full.
*■*.*-■*
“Herbert Dawson”: Old Bill took a
walk through his grass paddock to make
sure the fire had no chance of crossing
the creek. The smoke was thick in the
hollows, and it wasn’t till he was well
out of the timber that he discovered the
fire was already across in one place and
rapidly heading towards his corn patch.
His yells for help were heard by Mrs.
Hogan and her daughter a quarter of a
mile away. Rightly construing his
trouble, the ladies ran with wet bran-
bags towards the smoke-covered flat.
Mrs. Hogan carried an extra bag for
Bill: “There’s no bushes about there,
and no man’s got any presence of mind
in an emergency.” But she was wrong.
As they burst through the smoke they
came upon a startling scene. Felt hat
and whiskers singeing, old Bill was mak-
ing a glorious stand. With no article of
ctothing except a grey flannel and
blucher boots to hamper his movements,
he was swinging his pants by the legs,
bashing the seat down wherever a tongue
of flame shot up —and be damned to
Spooner.
* * * *
“Silver Tail”: In bush changes a
noticeable one is the passing of the
coffee-room bagmen. These old chaps,
gentlemen once, would sooner camp on
the creek and go hungry than go to the
hut. They were “inside men, by gad,
sir!” and if they couldn’t put their
legs under the manager’s table they
spread them under the coolibah. Most of
them had been remittance men, some
had held good jobs, all were hopeless
addicts of the bottle. They would hang
round the township chewing lugs. If a
popular manager came to town, a string
of them would attach themselves to him.
When they got a job they did it well; but
when the job cut out they were the
dickens of a bother to shift from the
station. Many a one of them was given
an old saddle, a pack-saddle and a pair
of pensioned horses just to get rid of
him. That he jumped ’em over the bar
at the first bush pub didn’t matter; he
was someone else’s responsibility then,
and the station which had got rid of him
felt it was out of it cheaply.
* * * * •
“Naturala”: Nature was often in a
sportive mood when she stocked the
sea. Take the cowfish, which ranges up
the W.A. coast past Broome. Growing
to a foot or more in length, it sports a
fanlike tail which might serve as a
rudder for a model aeroplane. The body,
too, is shaped like a fuselage, four-sided
with clearly cut angles. But the head
is a telling caricature of a cow. Two
well-proportioned horns project from the
forehead, two large bovine eyes are just
in the right position, and a cow-shaped
face has nose and mouth to match. The
skin completes the picture—scaleless and
dun-brown, just the color of old Roany.
* * * *
“Mackie”: A storekeeper in this N.Q.
township has his. business opposite a
hotel which has been virtually rebuilt
during the past two months. A traveller’s
query as to what he thought of the im-
provements brought a puzzled, “What
improvements?” He hadn’t once been
outside his front door in the two months!
“But you don't need to act. Be yourself!"
“Murlonga”: Tarpot asked me for a
bottle —“Good pfeller bottle belong-it
beer, make-’em razor belong-it tschave.”
Then, with a pint of water and a bit of
kerosene soap, and with Flypaper, his
gin, beside him, he commenced the job.
Flypaper’s work was to supply the razors.
She got to it while Tarpot lathered up,
rubbing the soap in with bare hands. I
' could hear the bristles grating as he
rubbed, showing they were tough. Tar-
pot only grunted—l don’t think he said
two ( words the whole time. When he
was ready he just held out his ha'nd, still
looking at himself in the broken mirror.
Flypaper handed him a chip of broken
glass ; Tarpot gave two or three scrapes,
then tossed the blade aside and took
the other that Flypaper had ready. She
knew a bit about making razor blades.
She would chip the bottle on a stone,
breaking the bit' just as she seemed to
want to shape it, and before handing
it to her lord she would glance at its
edge. She discarded many, mumbling a
swear-word or two as she tossed them
away. Most of them though were good
for a stroke or two before Tarpot took
the edge off them. When he had fin-
ished about half the bottle was still un-
used, and Tarpot’s face was unscratched
and as clean as a virgin’s conscience.
* $ * *
“Kriz”: Our first sniff of the stuff
nearly made us sick, but, when we had
got used to that and had tried it, we
found blachen one of the tastiest condi-
ments we had ever used. Greatly prized
by lugger crews, it is made of dried fish,
and mixed with chillies makes even the
commonest dish taste like caviare. Dur-
ing lay-up when we got tired of the camp
tucker most of us —shell-openers used
to go to one of the pubs for the even-
ing meal, taking a bottle of blachen with
us. One evening the Singapore-bound
steamer was tied up alongside the jetty
at Broome and some of the tourists came
to the pub for dinner. They were put
at the casuals’ table, which happened to
be ours. When we took the lid off the
bottle the tourists sniffed round sus-
piciously, one even looking under the
table as if there were something dead
there. It smells like that, but tastes —ah !
* * * *
“Oran”: The city family were wor-
ried to know that Uncle Bill, aged 80,
was ending his days in a bush shack,
with merely a blue cattle-dog for com-
pany. They got to work, built' on to
their home a room with every mod. con.
for uncle, persuaded him to let a coun-
try neighbor have the dog, and imported
the old gent, to town. On a cold winter’s
morning they were perturbed to find that
uncle, after a week in residence, had dis-
appeared. When next seen he was back
at the shack, with the dog beside him,
smoking before a huge fire. “Yairs,” he
admitted, “things were handy in town.
But I’m not one to end me days in front
of a damn fire that falls over when yer
kick it.”
* * * *
“Disperse”: Reference to conflicts be-
tween aboriginals and whites (B.
9/12/’36) reminds me that there are few
instances of abos. making a concerted
attack on large bodies of alien invaders.
One was the wiping out of a party of
Chinese on the Johnstone River in the
’eighties. This was the more remark-
able since several of the blacks were
armed with rifles and used them with
effect, according to the Chinese who
escaped the slaughter. I have never hedrd
of an instance of abos. using firearms
in their clashes with whites. Perhaps
some other paragraphist can supply one.
* * * *
“Chan”: In an account of Boston
(U.S.A.) I read, concerning the histori-
cal “museum of historic. shoes,” that
“in this museum is every conceivable
kind of footwear the world over,
even to the peculiar basketlike shoes
worn by Australian bushmen, made from
twisted. hair cord and emu feathers so
that no distinct footprints may remain
by which an enemy might track the
wearer.” Any Aboite ever struck these
“peculiar basketlike shoes”?
* * * *
“John Dory”: Fish go off one brand
of tucker in favor of another for the
same reason that even the heartiest
glutton doesn’t dine on roast pigeon
every day. When fish ignore worms a
survey of the shallows will generally dis-
close thousands of dead worms, heads
buried in the sand, bodies waving in the
current. Why did they die so? Ask
me another —but the fish are glutted with
them. Prawns, also, are ignored at their
dying-off time. On an unfished beach
whiting will bite at their own flesh; on
a much-fished beach, where heads, etc.,
are continually being thrown into the
water, they ignore such diet. But one
bait never ignored is crayfish. Queer,
since to the small fry a taste of cray
must be something that comes to barely
one in ten million ; yet they love it with
the same passion as the water-hating cat
loves fish.
* * * *
“Shark Bay”: My nomination for the
owner of the hardest teeth in Australian
waters is what is known along the
Groperland coast as the nor’-west blow-
fish. About Ift. long, obese as an old-
time publican, skin like sandpaper and
able' to inflate to the size of a small
football when landed, the blowy has a
baby-like mouth fitted with two solid
bars of ivory. Capable of taking only a
small hook, it will cut through the shank
of a steel No. 8 in two or three champs.
* * * *
“Sixty-five”: Sheep are often classed
as the most stupid things on legs. An
old-timer at Tamworth (N.S.W.) refutes
this by employing the woollies in his
miniature circus. The sheep jump on
each end of a see-saw and, with a goat
in the middle to balance them, rock
themselves up and down with bright
intelligence. When called they jump off
smartly, and then readily leap hurdles
placed before them.
* * # *
“Wandi”: N.S.W. graziers have been
advocating perpetual protection for
possums, as trappers disturb cattle and
considerable loss has been caused
through poisoning. A few years ago a
grazier near Scone sold for £lO3 the
right to trap possums for 10 weeks in
one of his paddocks. Another sold the
possums on his run to trappers for
£500; the purchasers trapped 3000, so
the price paid was at the rate of 3s. 4d.
per head in the bush. Apart from com-
mercial value, it is claimed that possums
perform a useful function in keeping
the eucalypts vigorous and healthy. They
certainly never do the grazier any harm,
as they live in the trees, where cattle
don’t browse.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: Locks, redfins, netting,
dynamite and cormorants have been
variously blamed for the depletion of
the Murray cod, but the clearing of
timber in bends and billabongs by gra-
ziers and slightly lower rivers in lean
years have done far more damage. From
1927-30 inclusive the Murray, below the
Murrumbidgee junction, overflowed its
banks only in a few very low spots.
These grow good bend feed, and in con-
sequence are usually kept free of logs,
and it is impossibly for Mrs. Cod to
conceal her spawn in such confined
waters or for baby fish to escape from
enemies. Also, a close study of con-
ditions and records show that, 50 years
before, the level of the river would have
been 3ft. to 4ft. higher; 1929 was the
first' year known that the Euston station
billabong didn’t fill, and that place was
settled in 1842. Weirs, irrigation pumps
and timber denudation at the source are
responsible.
RHYMING PLAYERS.
When in my haste to dodge the wrath parental
I fled outback I might have done much worse,
For bushmen then were kindly, sentimental
And simple souls who loved a bit of verse.
To say you didn’t care too much for reading
Bush poetry amounted to a crime
When crib players deemed it quite the right
proceeding
To mark their pegging triumphs with a rhyme.
As one by one the cards kept quickly falling—
“ Seven; seventeen; and five are twenty-
two”—
None thought it strange to hear the next .voice
calling
“And five are twenty-two —well, nine’s the
screw!”
A four at twenty-seven made “eleven,”
At twenty-three an eight became “the spree,”
At twenty-four “the score” proclaimed a seven,
At twenty-eight “the weight” foretold a three.
Bush poetry and crib! To be quite truthful,
I can’t say where the link between them lies,
I only know the things we loved when youthful
Are those on which, when old, we waste our
sighs.
I wonder why our thoughts persist in playing
Those wanton tricks which catch us un-
awares?
The other day I heard a stranger saying
“Brown’s orchard?” and replied “That’s
right; two pairs! ”
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


“Nordbo”: Some time ago out Winton
(Q.) way one Frank Alloway set a record
which is likely to stand unchallenged. He
sheared a sheep, killed, skinned and
dressed it, cut off a chop and began eat-
ing. The performance, from first click
of shearing blade to swallowing of the
first mouthful of chop, took five minutes.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Taking a walk one
moonlit night across an almost treeless
paddock I was puzzled to come on about
200 wethers packed tightly, as though for
shelter, at the butt of a dead tree. Only
effect of my presence was to cause sheep
on the outskirts of the press to huddle
closer. There was no sign or sound of
any menace—until a swish overhead
made me look up. A large owl swept
lazily over the bunched jumbucks, caus-
ing them to pack even tighter, then van-
ished. I waited. The sheep began to
break. Over swept the owl again, and
again they pressed into the tree. Was
“You be knocking off twenty minutes early , Tummas Trevarrack!"
“No, cap’n — startin' late!"
that owl having a game, or was it un-
aware of the cause of the sheep’s panic
and curious to find out?
IITT * „ * *
Hanko : 111 second Naturalist’s
contention (B. 2/12/’36) that cities
attract a wider variety of birds than
country-folk would suspect. Frequently
I’ve flushed stubble quail on suburban
“Give me bullocks , Bill; they're ’ uman. They c'n unnerstand our langwidge !”
(Melbourne) allotments, and at Coburg
recently I observed a pair of the rare
letter-wing kites. The. Victorian capital
is favored of the hawk tribe ; whistling
eagles, kestrels and brown hawks are
common therein. Last year a canary-
hunting falcon was captured in a city
hotel. On the opening day of the duck
season just passed a couple of youths
got a good bag of birds on the West
Melbourne swamp, less than two miles
from the. G.P.O. But Melbourne is
unique among State capitals in that from
north and west the'country marches in
almost to the heart of the city.
“Spare Walton”: A tiddler which
should make Zane Grey howl with envy
when he hears of it was caught off
Hayman Island, Barrier Reef (Q.), by
a Sydney tourist. The catch—made with
rod and reel—was a blue groper which
pulled the scales down to 4201 b.; it was
7ft. 6in. long and 57in. round the waist.
Two hours elapsed between hooking and
gaff.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: Has any Aboliar made a
study of perspective in regard to animal
eyes by night l ? The first time I saw the
gleaming eyes of prowling dingoes I
blazed away with a tried and accurate
- 22 > without causing their howling to
pause, for a second. Next morning’s in-
vestigation discovered practically all the
bullet-marks twenty yards short of the
closest dog-tracks. I did some quick
reckoning on taking a fuller sight, in-
duced Rover to pose in darkness over
measured distances and settled back for
some easy scalps. Everything worked
but the big idea; the shots still fell
short. That' was 20 years ago, and I
haven’t cracked a dingo at night-time,
yet. I’m prepared to listen to anyone’s
tale provided the aggregate bag doesn’t
exceed half a dozen.
* * * *
“Quareef”: “Strike me up a dead
saplin’,” ejaculated Ken, flinging down
The Bulletin; “these Abo. coots ’ve
never seen big trees!” sneered Smarty,
who believed all Abo-isms. “Hold on ’n’
I’ll tell y’,” said Ken, leaning from
the bunk to light his pipe at the
slush-lamp. “I was once with a
drover overlandin’ 5000 head of cattle.
When we struck the Snowy River she
was in flood and too dangerous to swim.
Pushin’ upstream we come to a giant
hollow tree that had fallen across the
river. After some wild skedaddlin’ we
herded the hornies into the trunk and
headed ’em for the other side. The
light inside was all right, ’cos snapped-
off branches let some sunlight through.
Two o’clock that afternoon we sneaked
out of the trunk through a big side-
branch info thick scrub, miles beyond
the river, and 30 head was missin’. ‘Better
go back, Ken. We might’ve left ’em on
the other side,’ sez the boss. ‘lt’ll on’y
take a coupla hours to canter back.’
Reachin’ the main trunk I spotted tracks
where the strays had taken fright an’
galloped on past our side-branch exit.
Two days later I overtook ’em —least-
ways 20 of ’em—perched on the end of
the broken trunk bellowin’ fer water.
Lookin’ over the edge I sees the others,
an’ I says to meself, ‘Ken, ole boy,
’tain’t safe to muster that 10!’ So I left
’em behind.” Ken knocked the ash from
his pipe, stretched himself and yawned:
“Reckon I’ll turn in.” For a space
Smarty watched his deliberate unrob-
ing, then ventured: “Why wasn’t it
safe to get the others?” Ken thought-
fully stuffed both socks into his boots,
and then demanded: “Would you ride
into the Pacific with a stockwhip to
round up 10 carcasses that sharks were
squabblin’ over?”
* * * *
“Beau de Kolognay”: The old man
would take my chaps, bandannas, Stet-
son and Mexican spurs, and hang them
on the clothesline in the backyard. I
didn’t protest. Nor did I object when the
kids used my monocle as a target for
shooting at (so long as it wasn’t in my
eye). I didn’t even mind their using my
spats as horse bandages, nor my fur coat
as a blanket for the cow next on the
maternity list. But when the soup made
its appearance on the dinner table in my
bowler hat I felt that it was time to go.
H*
“Merino”: If the arguing about
snakeskin belts inducing a weak back
and shoes leading to sprained ankles is
over, will someone tell me what is the
effect of sleeping on a sheepskin mat-
tress? When first I went bush I used
one, and found it just the thing for ease
and luxury. Then an old-timer rose in
his wrath and told me what sort of a
fool I was: sleeping on a sheepskin
would induce rheumatism, spots before
the eyes, nervous prostration, early senil-
ity and a host of other complaints. I’ve
never been game to use the darned
things since, but if someone who has
braved those dangers and come through
intact will assure me I’m safe I’ll have
them on again.
* -T * *
“Shamuseen”: Champions of local
woods as tool-handles have all omitted
the wanghi, indigenous to Torres Strait
islands. It was a Binghi favorite for
spears and stone clubs, also for dugong-
and turtle-hunting harpoons. For years
a Cape York mainland bushman has
been making it into axe-handles and
paddles for the Torres Strait pearling
flotilla. An extraordinary thing about
wanghi is its antipathy to the coconut
palm, and that palm’s equal dislike for
it. Should wanghi and coconqt palm be
planted side by side, they will grow
almost parallel to the ground away from
each other.
* * *
“Roly”: Why does Binghi refuse to
eat a snake that has bitten itself? Does
he think it deadly to eat, or does he
know by tribal experience that it will
cause sickness? Of course, if any such
idea is firm-fixed in Binghi’s mind, the
fact that he had eaten a self-bitten snake
would be enough to put him on his
deathbed. Perhaps some Aboliar may
furnish me with an actual instance in
which the swallowing of a snake’s
poison was followed by sickness. It will
certainly not cause death. venom
is only effective when in the blood-
stream. If the venomous substances are
taken into the stomach through the
mouth they are. resolved into other
chemical compounds by the chemical
ferments of the stomach. When I was a
kid I sucked a snakebite. If I knew
then all I know now, I would not have
lain awake for nine solid hours wonder-
ing if I’d swallowed any poison, and if
so whether it was starting to act or not.
There is a danger of the poison entering
the. bloodstream through a hollow
tooth, of course.
* * * *
“Rosella”: What’s the most difficult
sound that a parrot can imitate? My
entry: the sharpening of a carving-knife
on a steel. The butcher’s Kimberley
grey does it most realistically. Can any
human tongue accomplish it?
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Explorations into
the lower levels of oceans should have
dispelled the popular fallacy that ocean
floors teem with horrific beasts rivalling
in size and ferocity the creatures of pre-
historic periods, and that they occasion-
ally rise to the surface, despite the laws
of internal pressure and adaptability.
Actually the deeps are populated mainly
by small fry of grotesque and fearsome
appearance, with a comparatively few
larger fish and an abundance of crusta-
ceans, or copepods, the deep-sea equiva-
lent of insects. But here’s where I’m,
stumped. There are no plants at this
depth—green, the universal color of
plants, vanishes at three or four hundred
feet, and the sun does not penetrate be-
yond two thousand feet —so every
creature is necessarily carnivorous. I
can follow it up to a point. The larger
feed on the smaller —except in the case
of the Black Swallower, when the posi-
tion is reversed —and so on, down to the
copepods. But what do they feed on?
Don’t tell me dead marines.
WOOLCLASSING.
It’s great to hear again, old son, the humming
of machines,
To sniff the sweating sheep again, to see these
same old scenes,
To hear the penner-up’s wild whoop, the
engine’s chugging stress,
The calls of “tar” t>r “wool away,” the clank-
ing of the press;
The scraps of talk along the board—these
sounds, I love them all,
But most the fleeces, folded crisp, that from
the boggis fall.
I’ve sorted in the city stores the wolf from door
to keep,
And wool is always wool, of course, however
far from sheep.
It still is soft and kind to touch, and fine and
fair to spin,
But nothing’s like the brightsome bloom of
wool new-shorn from skin.
That creamy cloud from “rousey’s” hands, of
warmth and life so full—
Oh, do Australians know the pride of this, our
golden wool!
What wondrous work is ours with wool,
smooth-flowing though so fast;
Fleece upon fleece ’tis gathered up and on the
tables cast;
Skirted and rolled into a ball, on classer’s table
set,
Soon in the bins for presser’s hands —no time
to lose or let!
A flowing tide of human toil, robust, complete,
unspared,
Hurried but ordered, smooth but strained, and
every effort shared.
The old hands say that shearing days have lost
their one-time glow,
That “tongs” cut bigger tallies, too —the boggis
aren’t so slow.
Maybe, but still I love the whirr, the banging
and the blurt,
\nd labor rife with engine life—it does the
job no hurt.
We’ve better wool and more of wool, and, say,
or I’m a fool,
That’s what we’re after, sonny boy, that’s what
we’re shearing— wool.
N.S.W.
TREPEX.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five, public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors’.
O F FRIEND P. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CFCIL H DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
CECIL H'"DO BARNES, E . V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. -Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and P 7
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank°offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
R. RAWNSL.EY MOSS, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £, £ £>
1926.. 144,529 12* p.c. = 62,500 82,029 510,021
1927.. 140,526 12* „ ~ 62,500 78,026 588,047
1928.. 125,869 12* „ „ 62,500 63,369 651,416
1929.. 102,508 12* „ „ 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10 „ „ 50,000 12,299 703,723
Pavment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 628,723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ ~ 50,000 39,353 693,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 60,000 63,358 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ „ 50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 00,000 42,837 644,805
1936. 130 648 10 .76,0001 60 M 8 69M53
To staft fund, £5OOO j 9 *
Founded by the far-sighted James Burns,
this solid and prosperous Australian fire,
marine and accident office, with world-
wide connections, celebrates its jubilee
year by sending out a 2 p.c. bonus with
the 8 p.c. div., making 10 p.c. for the
year. And the 10 p.c. calls for £25,000
more than 10 p.c. did two years ago, and
£12,500 more than 12| p.c. did before
the slump. That was because £250,000
of bonus scrip was scattered in December,
1934, lifting paid capital to its present
figure (£750,000), of which £675,000 has
come from surplus earnings.
The last previous gift (one for two)
was in 1919, which marked the close of
the richest decade in the co.’s history
—when fat returns were won from a big
volume of marine risks during the war.
Later, marine risks became very unsatis-
factory, and the co. pulled out of the
London marine market; also, before the
close of accounts in ’3l, it closed its New
York and Montreal offices, to the benefit
of underwriting results, notwithstanding
that about £200,000 of premium income
was involved. Then slump, the Sino-
Japanese war and currency depreciation
made inroads into earnings ; still, share-
holders never got less than £50,000 p.a.,
equal to 10 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the last gift, and with the im-
provement in economic conditions the
business has stepped along like a
thoroughbred.
The spring in last year’s net premium
income was £43,843:
Net Loss Expens*
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1925.. 556,191 289,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1931.. 516,397 295,828 217,492 57.3 „ 42.1 „
1932.. 435,649 223,587 190,021 51.3 „ 43.6 „
1933.. 435,679 208,207 188,643 47.8 „ 43.3 „
1934.. 453,718 221,893 189,818 48.9 „ 41.8 „
1935.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 ~ 40.9 „
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 ~ 37.1 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£10,577, 1935 ; £BO9B, 1936.
The larger business was handled at £3 16s.
p.c. less cost. So, although claims were
Bs. p.c. heavier, the underwriting surplus
was £23,121 better at £71,880, or 9.5 p.c.
on capital. After deducting taxes (£BO9B,
down £2479), the net return from in-
vestments was £4691 stronger at £58,769,
equal to 7.8 p.c. on capital. The net
return from all sources was thus 17.3 p.c.
on capital as against 13.7 p.c. for the
previous term.
On the market 625. is asked for the
fully-paid pound shares, at which figure
the return is 3.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor at 625. who looks
for 4 p.c. on his money counts on a
p.c. distribution. Visibly the cover
is 38s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Policy-holders are strongly protected, as
they always have been. When the books
closed they could see net tangibles equal
to 267 p.c. of the year's net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate. The nature of the assets is
pleasing, too:
, 1935 r- 1936-
p.c. p.c.
Government securities. £938,648 53.6 £1,039,976 56.0
Municipal securities.. 94,542 5.4 89,542 4.8
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. .. 549,331 31.4 593,571 31.9
Premises .. . . 167,332 9.6 136,125 7.3
All the spare money that became avail-
able last year was invested in Govern-
ment securities (up £101,328), mainly in
Australia, Maoriland, Britain and
Canada.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and Dividend Tax
a
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 74,503 3000 16 p.c. = 49,310 1 , Q 9. am
Written off, £20,258 . . j 1,9d0
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720.. .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. .. 405,029
1927.. 98,861 3000 16 p.c. c= 54,659 ) o>. 0 >. 9r . 0 ~, oqi
Written off, £14,000 .. 43-,-di
Premiums on new shares, £14,957 .. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. .. 506,121
1928.. .124.917.3000 20 p.c. = 85,076 36,841 542,962
1929.. 112,652 3000 20 „ „ 85,090 24,562 567,524
1930.. 118,187 3000 18 „ „ 76,581 41,606 606,130
1931.. 69,929 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 7,366 613,496
1932.. 83,449 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 20,886 634,382
1933.. 89,645 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 27,082 661,464
1934.. 105,215 3000 18 „ ~76,581 25,634 687,098
Written off freeholds, £5OOO .. .. 682,098
1935.. 98,974 3000 20 p.c. = 85,090 10,884 692,982
1936.. 120,253 3000 20 „ „ 85,090 32,163 725,145
The co. enjoys almost a monopoly of
the trade in Westralia, where the grow-
ing population on the goldfields has
helped to bump up consumption. The
family stocking is bulging. To trans-
fer some of the visible lay-by to the
share register would make both net earn-
ings and dividends in relation to share
capital look more like what the position
really is, and thus avoid much popular
misconception in this connection, but
because of taxation and other difficul-
ties, the board has shelved the idea.
Instead, each fully-paid 255. ord. is to
be split into five shares of ss. each, and
then 340,000 new ss. shares are to be
issued, one for five, at a premium of
2s. each. The extra money is wanted to
help finance re-equipment of the Emu
brewery, bought about nine years ago,
with a complete new plant.
When the books closed, the co. held
£115,109 (up £27,422) in cash, etc. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1926. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages .. 45,144 21,148
Other liabilities* 85,614 119,371 148,937 166,689
Freeholds and
plant .. 646,867 959,071 976,173 975,909
Mortgages .. 58,265 39,710 52,272 48,221
Stocks . . 61,798 50,234 56,918 58,199
Shares in other
cos 6,897 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts .. 60,471 65,817 76,645 102,170
Cash, etc. .. 6,269 50,827 87,687 115,109
* Includes goodwills accruing.
Chief earning assets are very conser-
vatively valued in the books. The
brewery, plant, etc., which cost £810,703
(up £25,708), figures at £267,543, and
hotel freeholds, etc., which cost £875,929
(up £126,545 over the last half-dozen
years), appear at £700,835. When the
books closed, the more or less liquid
surplus (£157,010, excluding shares in
other cos.) was £32,425 stronger than at
the previous balances. Shareholdings
consist mainly of scrip in the Emu and
Castlemaine breweries.
The spring in last year’s gross earn-
ings (£337,843) was £57,218, of which
£51,199 was on account of trad-
ing (£272,424) and £6019 rents, etc.
(£65,419). Management exes. (£80,071)
were only £6776 heavier. Including
charges for repairs (£20,367, up £415),
depreciation (£82,050, up £25,871) and
taxation (£36,422, up £6374), the increase
in total exes. (£218,910) was £39,004.
Allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
enough was netted (£120,253, up £21,279)
to pay the prefs. their £3OOO and show
a juicy 27.5 p.c. on the £425,454 of ord.
capital (22.5 p.c. for the previous year),
or 10.1 p.c. on ord. capital and reserves
combined. The div. was kept at 20 p.c..
and there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that it is likely to be
interfered with.
On the market the ords. advanced
from 525. Id. in 1932 to 1525. shortly
before publication of the latest accounts.
The figure has since eased to 1455., equal
to 295. per ss. share. After allowing for
the new issue, the return at 295. is 4 p.c.
on a 20 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the net
tangible cover at Sept. 30 was £2 14s. Id.
per" pound of paid ord. capital. The
well-protected prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 44,813 17* p.e. = 39,404 5,409 28,614
1927.. 54,548 17* „ „ 46,294 8,254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 „ „ 29,063 999 37,777
1929.. 51,511 12* „ „ 39,488 12,023 49,800
1930.. 34,027 7* „ „ 25,397 8,630 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6" „ „ 21,000 3,302 61,731
1932.. 32,538 8 „ „ 28,000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ „ 24,796 1,779 68.048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ „ 33,300 6,182 80,490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ ~37,000 6,948 87,438
This co. has a bright history, and is in
every way well equipped to win what-
ever profits are to be had from the trade
in high-grade canned foods and condi-
ments. It began at Richmond (Vic.) in
1910 with a capital of £lOO,OOO. Dur-
ing the decade to the close of accounts
in 1929, £200,000 of fresh capital was
gathered, £25,000 of bonus scrip was
issued, and divs. averaged 13.3 p.c.
Slump brought a glut of canned fruits
in the local market and therefore price-
cutting, largely from Government
financed factories, as well as a lot of
other troubles, too. Still, the div. never
dropped below 6 p.c., and, after a tem-
porary halt, the business kept on ex-
panding, with earnings fluctuating ac-
cording to market conditions.
Sales for the last term were the best
since 1929, price-cutting practically
ceased, and there was a good clearance
of canned fruits in the export section of
the industry. It is all reflected in a spring
of £17,456 in gross earnings:
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1915 .. £44,164 £28,601 £2,246
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1929 .. 180,982 114,990 14.625
1930 . . 148,787 110,194 10,919
1931 .. 133,613 99,637 10,102
1932 . . 143,322 97,686 13,067
1933 .. 132.241 93,928 12,307
1934 . . 143,134 96,209 11,528
1935 .. . 155,934 105,422 11,469
1936 . . 173,390 118,255 11,531
Exes, (up £12,833) took 68.2 p.c. of gross
earnings as against 67.6 p.c. in ’35. This
lift in costs was due mainly to a rise in
wages. After allowing for depreciation,
shown as written off, and minor reserve
adjustments, the net result (up £4467)
was 11.8 p.c. on capital, compared with
10.6, 9.7, 7.5, 9.2, 6.9, 10 and 16.3 p.c.
back to 1929.
The policy has been to distribute
profits as they are earned, so another
point was added to the div., lifting it to
10 p.c., and making the average for the
last decade 9.5 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements suggest pre-
paration for still brisker trading:
1921. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. £125,000 £350,000 £370,000 £370,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 150,187 15,878 63,555
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 241,039 228,153 241,424
Stock.. .. 92,839 261,088 202,254 241,055
Debtors and _ „„„
bills .. 55,813 76,850 73,037 80,283
Cash, invest- •
ments, etc. 6,263 5,007 6,224 a,230
During the year additional' factory stores
were erected at Rosebery (N.S.W.) and
Kent Town (S. Aus.), and another floor
was added to the packing and dispatch
house at Richmond (Vic.). The net in-
crease in the book value of fixed assets
was £13,271 ; stocks were up £38,801,
and debtors’ balances £7246. To meet
the outlay the board went outside for an
extra £47,677. The more or less liquid
surplus was £263,013, down £2624.
Sales have continued to increase since
the close of accounts, and entei-
prising management has decided ‘ to ex-
plore the possibilities of certain ovei -
seas markets.” There is a suggestion
here that the local market is approach-
ing saturation point; chief obstacle in
connection with exports threatens to be
rising costs.
Over the twelvemonth the pound
shares have advanced from 38s. to 50s.
in the market. The return at 50s. is 4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the
cover is 245. 9d. in net tangibles.
Peters’ American Delicacy (Vic.)
Towards
June Loss Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£££ _ £
Goodwill, preliminary exes., etc. • • 58,578
1930.. 7,634 Nil ®®.210
1931.. 16,475 Nil 82,690
Profit.
1932.. 3,895 Nil 5.890 78,790
Intangibles written off, £38,795 • • 40,000
1933.. 8,668 6 p.c. = 7350 1318 38,68 i
Reserve for depreciation, etc. (£19,198,
up £8403), taken in
1934.. 14,225 8 p.c. = 9799 4426
Added to depreciation reserve, £BlOl .. C>,907
1935.. 9,632 6 p.c. = 7347 2285 4,672
Reserves.
Additions miscellaneous reserves, £7016. . 2,344
1936.. 10,164 8 p.c. = 9800 364 , 2,708
Because the old factory in Myer’s-place,
Melbourne, taken over with the IXL ice-
cream business at the start (in 1929), be-
came too small, a new one (capacity
1500 gallons of ice-cream per hour) was
erected at Richmond, and began produc-
tion in February last. Although the
change-over caused a certain amount of
dislocation and non-recurring expense,
the board wrote net earnings £532 better
than the previous year’s at 8.2 p.c. on
capital as against 7.9, 11.6,7.1 and 2.1 p.c.
back to 1932 ; in that year, to wipe out
trading losses, lighten the load of good-
will and bring the book value of assets
more into line with fallen values, £82,825
was lopped off capital, reducing it to
£122,505 in 12s. shares, of which 94,500
were fully-paid and the balance paid
to 4s. 9d. each when the books closed.
The div. was lifted a couple of points,
making 8 p.c. for the year.
The net result was written after send-
ing £7016 (down £1085), or 10.7 p.c. of
the book value of plant at June 30, 1935,
to the reserve for depreciation', etc.
(£34,317), some of which may be
genuine profit.
The new factory is reflected in a
growth of £45,255 in the book value of
freehold and of £21,994 in plant:
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £174,189 £204,708 £122,505 £122,505
Sundry creditors 15,432 2,101 25,703 63,044
Freeholds . . 34,723 34,973 58,746 103,001
Plant . . 87,418 118,162 65,215 87,209
Stocks .. 7,979 4,804 2,859 3,790
Book debts . . 4,446 2,528 2,087 1,691
Cash, etc. . . 27 1,323 18,302 2,366
To meet the outlay cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £15,936, and £37,341 was added
to the amount coming to outsiders, rais-
ing it £55,197 in excess of more or less
liquids when the books closed.
To lighten the debt 3s. 3d. per share
(£45,024) has been called on the con-
tribs. since the close of accounts. When
the last Is. 3d., due Jan. 1, i§ in, paid
capital will.be £167,529 in 12s. shares,
of which 227,072 will be paid to Bs. and
the balance fully paid. An 8 p.c. div.
will then call for £13,402, or £3238 more
profit than was claimed for the last
term.
Although seasonal conditions favor a
better showing at next balance, the 8
p.c. div. is by no means secure. The
market prices the contribs., now paid to
6s. 9d., at 10s. 9d. The call due next
o Continued on page 24.)


A TRIP—AND A FALL!


A SUPvE F MEND IN UNCERTAIN TIME S
m
i
m
HP
■ *?<
m
Monthly Income
Should She need it
All sorts of things contribute to married happiness. A
very important one is peace of mind. Here is a recipe
for it, prepared especially for young husbands:—
(1 ) Become a member of the A.M.P. Society, and take
out a Policy for £1,500, payable at death. Because of the
great strength of the Society, such an A.M.P. Policy gives
the greatest possible return for the money invested.
(2) Ask the Society to endorse on the Policy that, on
your death, the proceeds are to be paid to your widow (or her
beneficiaries) as a regular income (monthly or quarterly as
you wish) for TEN YEARS.
Under this plan, even if you were to die the next day,
your widow would receive £43/10/7 a quarter (about £3/7/-
a week) for ten years. If you lived for several years, con-
siderable bonuses would be payable, in a lump sum at your
death, or as an equivalent regular income over the ten years.
Such a provision, for a widow is a wise one when the
estate to be left to her is small. It gives her the opportunity
to readjust her life. If, living to a ripe age, and adding to
your policies, you later feel that such provision is unnecessary,
you can cancel the endorsement on the policy WITHOUT
THE LOSS OF A PENNY.
This is a much better plan than that under which income
benefits accrue only if you die within a specified period. This
plan takes all the gamble out and puts additional benefits in.
Send to the nearest A.M.P. office for someone to discuss
the matter with you, or ask for booklets giving full details.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* 4= * #
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advi'se you—William Adams & Company,
Limited. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
*** ” *
Buyer of TANTALITE and all classes ores, con-
centrates, metals. LOUIS BURKARD, 250 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Telegram address, “Burkardore.”
Anvi.
month will raise the figure to 125., at
which the return is 5.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The fully-paids seldom come
on to the market. The net tangible
cover is 20s. sd. per pound of paid
capital.
Base Metals
The year 1936 closes and 1937 opens
with even more brightness in the out-
look for base-metal producers than dur-
ing most of the boom years. Here is a
comparison of average spot metal prices
in London over the last couple of years
with the average for the five years to
the end of 1929:
i Average Price ■
Five Years, Jan.-Nov.,
1925-29. 1935. 1936. 21/12/’36.
Lead ..£27 3 2 £l4 5 8 £l6 17 3 £27 5 0
Zinc . . 29 16 1 14 3 6 14 15 2 18 17 6
Copper (c) 69 19 5 35 14 1 42 3 6 52 0 0
Tin . . 254 9 11 225 14 5 202 15 2 232 17 6
Silver (*). 2 3.6 2 4.9 1 7.9 1 9.3
(e) Electrolytic. (s) Standard spot.
The position is more attractive than the
last column in the table suggests. Since
1929, Australian silver-lead, zinc and
copper producers have greatly reduced
their costs, thanks largely to technical
efficiency and increased output, and ex-
change has added 25 p.c. to sterling
prices when expressed in local currency.
With the exception of silver (a by-
product of lead-zinc ore) and tin, 1936
opened with prices above the previous
year’s averages ; it closed with a very
marked increase in the figures, and with
the trend still upwards. The improve-
ment is the outcome of many things, in-
cluding continued industrial expansion,
especially in the U.K. and U.S.A., arma-
ment expenditures, and the better inter-
national trade outlook, following the
franc-dollar-sterling exchange stabilisa-
tion agreement —disturbances caused by
recurrent flights of capital, etc., are now
absorbed by the new technique of ex-
change management, of which the British
Equalisation Account is the centre. Also,
consumption ran ahead of production for
most metals, especially during the last
half of the year, and stocks have been
reduced to or are approaching the point'
where they no longer press heavily upon
prices.
Precisely to what extent the injection
of armament expenditures into the eco-
nomic system is responsible for the rise
in metal prices it is difficult to say. Prob-
ably the indirect results of this class of
expenditure are greater than its direct
effects upon employment, trade and
prices. With the mechanisation of
armies and the growth of the third arm
of the services, the Air Force, expendi-
ture on defence now covers a wider
range of industrial activity, and there-
fore exerts a greater influence upon em-
ployment, production, consumption and
investment than it used to.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a strong demand for metals.
Much depends upon what happens in the
U.S.A., where. 1937 is expected to wit-
ness something in the nature of an in-
dustrial boom—steps are already being
taken by the Treasury at Washington to
check over-extension of credit, and thus
curb excessive speculative activity.
On Dec. 21 lead reached £34 Is. 3d. a
ton in Australian currency, the highest
figure since 1926—the record figure was
£53 7s. 6d. in 1920, when the average for
the full year was £3B 4s. 7d. Lead
stocks outside the U.S.A. are not avail-
able, but in well-informed circles they
are believed to be negligible. The
comparatively low price of spelter is due
partly to the fact that current produc-
tion of zinc concentrates is in excess of
immediate smelter requirements, owing
to the treatment of lead-zinc ores pri-
marily for the production of lead con-
centrates, for which there is a stronger
demand.
About 60 p.c. of the zinc concentrates
produced at the Barrier, the greatest
silver-lead field in the. world, is bought
by Electrolytic Zinc under a returning
charge contract, with a minimum price.
If the London price of zinc rises from,
say, £l5 to £l7 a ton, the additional
revenue derived from the sale of the
metal goes approximately 60 p.c. to the.
mining co., which produces and sells the
concentrate, and 40 p.c. to the Elec-
trolytic Co., which buys and treats such
concentrate and sells the resultant metal.
As for copper, world stocks at the
end of October were estimated at about
320,000 tons, or less than three months’
market requirements.
In allowing for prospective) profits,
the sharemarket heavily discounts the
future:—
, Middle Price N
Jan. June. Sept. 23/12/’36.
North B.H. .. 152/- 172/- 192/- 74/-*
H.H. South .. 109/- 111/- 120/- 44/G*
Zine-Cor,p.(ord.)t 71/- 82/- 82/- 149/
Mt. Lvell .. 21/6 24/6 29/6 38/3
El. Zinc (ord.) 36/- 39/- 43/- 51/9
* Face value, ss. t Face value Zinc Corp. ords.,
10s.; all other shares, £l.
The difference in the price of the Bar-
rier cos.’ shares is due mainly to differ-
erices in the. assay value of the ore.
For the 12 months to June 30 last
North, which mines the richest ore on
the field, treated 402,097 tons crudes,
assaying approximately 15.2 p.c. lead,
9.10 z. silver and 11.8 p.c. zinc, the metal
contents being 61,345 tons lead,
3,691,3930 z. silver and 47,805 tons zinc.
The London average for lead was £l6
4s. sd. a ton, silver 2s. 2.3 d., and zinc
£l5 3s, lid. Including 2s. B.ld. for
development, costs were 30s. 4.5 d. per
ton. After setting aside £30,000 for de-
preciation the profit was £636,940, or
90.9 p.c. on the £700,000 of paid capi-
tal. At 80s. the fully-paid ss. shares
would return a wink over 8 p.c. on a
130 p.c. div. basis, which would call for
£950,000. The new wage agreement,
whereby a bonus of 2s. 6d. a week is
added to the minimum award rates for
every pound by which the London price
of lead exceeds £l6 in terms of Austra-
lian currency, will bump up costs. Still,
if the price of lead keeps around its
present level, a 130 p.c. div. appears to
be within reach.
Raub Australian Gold, operating at
Pahang (F.M.S.), has lifted its last quar-
terly div. from 4d. to 6d. a share, thanks
to the larger quantity of ore put through
the mill. From the end of March to
Nov. 7 last 43,258 tons was treated for
a recovery of 17,031 fine ounces gold,
an average of- 7.87dwt., compared with
33,997 tons, averaging 8.47dwt., for the
corresponding pei iod of the previous
term. The estimated cost of prospecting
(£15,400) for nine months to the end of
February has already been exceeded;
nothing is said about results. For the
year to the end of March last the co.
treated 53,358 tons for an average re-
covery of B.o7dwt. as against 9.o7dwt.
for the preceding term. Ore reserves
were put at 45,000 tons, of which 36,400
tons was sulphides and the balance
oxides. Recent tests show that current
and old tailings can be treated at a
profit, but further investigation is con-
sidered necessary before plant is pur-
chased. The market prices the fully-
paid ss. shares at 20s. or thereabouts.
With a nominal capital of £lO,OOO in
40,000 ss. shares, Wewak Gold Estates
has been floated to take up 1500 acres
of virgin alluvial river flats near the
Parchee and Hamuku rivers, tributaries
of the Sepik (N.G.). To the public
10,000 shares called to 2s. have been
offered, and 17,000 f.ps. go to vendor
J. A. Thurston. At first small-scale sluic-
ing will be undertaken, but if boring at
depth warrants there is talk of develop-
ing the property into a dredging proposi-
tion. Higher up the river, the vendor is
reported to have recovered £ll,OOO worth
of gold since February, an average re-
covery of 6ydwt. a yard.
* * * *
Although Palmer Gold Areas, repre-
senting overseas interests, does not
appear to have found anything worth
mentioning on the. old Palmer River
goldfield (N.Q.), a new Queensland co.,
Maytown Prospecting, Ltd., has mapped
an extensive gold- and tinmining pro-
gramme in the country between the
Palmer and Cooktown. It has pur-
chased several shows from North
Queensland Mines, including the old In-
dependent, 30 miles from Laura, where
a battery has been erected. An area of
some 550 acres has also been pegged at
Chinkey Gully —some rich stuff was
obtained here by Chinamen in the early
days—while a new tin lode is being
opened up at Cannibal Creek. A new
road has been built from the Creek to
Maytown, where an aerodrome is being
prepared.
* * * *
The Oakey Creek Co., which has been
working the Excelsior and Dalcouth,
both low-grade tinmines in the Herberton
district (N.Q.), has exercised an option
held over the Tully. The buy promises
to be worth while, the ore averaging
about 10 p.c. t.o.
* * * *
During its last term Golden Horse
.Shoe (New) completed retreatment of the
old Golden Horse Shoe Estates tailings
—it took over that co.’s assets in 1929 —
and on June 3 got to work on Great
Boulder’s No. 2 dump at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). Altogether 370,940 tons —
280,870 from the Horse Shoe, and 90,070
from Great Boulder —was sluiced to June
30, for a net profit of £13,167, down
£16,842. Extraction averaged 3s. Bd.
(Aust.) a ton and costs 2s. 5d., leaving a
working margin of Is. 3d. For the pre-
vious year the corresponding figures
were ss. 6d., 2s. lOd. and 2s. Bd. Rub-
bish in the. shallow Horse Shoe residuals
and early sluicing difficulties with the
Boulder slimes were the trouble last year.
The Boulder dumps cost £62,530 down,
plus 50 p.c. of retreatment profits. In
estimating profits, however, 6d. per ton
is chargeable against revenue for each
ton treated from No. 1 dump, which con-
tains 1,900,000 tons, averaging 1.65dwt.,
and 3d. for treatment of each ton from
No. 2, containing approx. 1,200,000 tons,
assaying 1.035 ’weights—this concession
should be worth approx, one-half the
initial cash payment. Monthly plant
capacity is to be bumped up to 60,000
tons. Costs, however, will need to be
lowered as production quickens if last
year’s div. —6d. stg., plus 3d. since the
accounts closed —is to be maintained.
From June 3 to Sept. 30 only £1236 was
netted, half of which goes to Great
Boulder.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.W.K.: Prospects not bright T.V.R.:
(1) Yes, but you may have to wait a while.
(2) Ye5....D.C.: No records available here;
write Department of Mines, Brisbane
8.A.R.: Sit tight... .S.F.C.: (1) Both sound,
regular bonus-paying offices. (2) Continue the
policy you have; take out another with the
other office if you want to L.L.: Hold
T.G.N.: It is a long-term speculation, and
guesses as to what profits (if any) are likely to
be realised aren’t worth much at the moment.
. ...M.K.: (1) Yes, 4 p.c. (2) O’Brien House,
58 Young-street, Sydney A.J.D.: No record.
... . Bowler: (1) Looks, like the right time to get
out. (2) Hold.. . .J.D.: A fair offer J.C.:
(1) Approach a bank. (2) Ordinary overdraft
rate.


SMOKE-OH!
The best New Year resolution is not
to make any.
•J*
“Parson wins champion-liar competition.”
—News item.
Doubtless with one of those after-the-
wedding speeches.
■!• + + +
“School for hotel managers advocated.”
— “Sun.”
To learn the A B C of X X X and
L.s.d.?
•F *F *F *F
“He was booted to the spot.”—' “D.T.”
Few of us need that persuasion.
•F *F »F *F
“A new machine detects differences of a
millionth part of an inch.”— News item.
Might be useful for showing how much
better off we are under one political party
than another.
4* *F *F *F
“Detectives unavailingly comb race crowd for
suspects.”— News item.
On the wrong track?
4* 4*
Resolutions.
I have resolved to give up drinking to
excess, even to Bill or Tom when they
get married. For at least three months
I don’t intend to
touch a single spot.
My sm o k ing,
too, will be
limited; in fact,
for a time I shall
not smoke at all.
These late nights
will be cut out. I
intend to go to bed
in future at a regu-
lar and early hour.
Nor will 1 use bad
language before
my wife.
I will get up
early every morn-
ing and do the
work that is re-
quired. Not only
have I made up my
mind about these
things but I shall'
certainly observe
them.
I am doing a
stretch in clink.
H. M.
“Charred meat is being injected into the veins
of French patients to cure infection.”
—“Popular Science.”
Nothing new in that treatment —ask
boarders.
•J* »|« »|«
“ ‘How many men could say they never
kissed a woman until they met their wife?’ asks
a woman writer.”
Plenty. It’s another matter how many
would be believed.
-I- *l* *F
“Action of this sort should settle the mater.”
• — “Sun.”
What most want, however, is some-
thing to settle the mater-in-law.
“Harp, haloes and all heavenly requirements, next
floor.”
Do the Transport Control Boards
know that rabbits are still travelling
freely between the States?
“An economist says the threat of Com-
munism is costing the world millions of pounds
annually.”
It’s called over-Red expenses.
»F *F *F *F
“If the Crown vanished the Empire would
vanish with it.” — Mr. Baldwin.
In other words, the Crown is our
anchor.
•F *F *F *F
“He had merely called in to wish him money
happy returns of the day.”— “D.T.”
That’s the sort of man we like to meet
on our birthday!
•F *F *F *F
“The bride was a nurse.” — Social news.
From bandage to bondage.
“Stop teasin' that bull or I'll come and dong y' one!”
“Club for Music Lovers.” — “D.T.”
Don’t some of the musicians deserve
it, too?
•F *F *F *F
“Manoeuvres amusing. Sufficient tonnage
withstand fish. Tune in higher frequencies.
Ignore static. 28th mine. Don’t.give up ship.
What shop? Or am I cuckoo?”
—Missing Friends advt.
Either that or a follower of James
“Ulysses” Joyce.
Lives of “statesmen” oft remind us
That we, too, could have good times
If the country would hut find us
Cash for trips to distant climes.
o. w. w.
>1- -I* *l* 4*
How to be Socially Popular.
Like a taste for olives or lipstick,
social popularity must be acquired. You
can’t expect to become “the life of the
party” without perseverance and prac-
tice. Let yourself go; learn to be
original and unorthodox, and then you’ll
find hostesses pelting you with invita-
tions to dinners and dances.
For instance, when arriving at a
house-party don’t sneak up the drive. Yell
“Coo-ee-e-e-e-e” 11 times, kick the front
door savagely and often and vamp “Red
Sails in the Sunset” on the bell push.
When your hostess opens the door say:
“How d’y’ do, Mrs. Swank? The even-
ing clobber’s in pawn, but the blazer-
singlet-shorts-and-sandshoes ensemble’s
cooler anyway. I’ll stay till supper if
the food’s passable and the party’s not
too putrid, but don’t blame me if I look
bored to death.”
After she simpers an ear-to-ear wel-
come and murmurs, “Oh, I’m so glad
you’ve come,” shove her aside, shoulder
your way through the guests, yank that
blonde and her boy-friend out of the
divan and sprawl nonchalantly upon it.
Now call for cigarettes and cocktails
and warn the pretty brunette in the pink
crepe romaine frock to hang around as
you may want to dance with her in an
hour or so.
Then, having refreshed yourself with
forty winks, tell the girls to go to—well,
anywhere; call the boys together and
start a game of skittles with beer-
bottles and billiard balls on the draw-
ing-room carpet. Chuck cigarette-ends
on the floor rugs, as you’ll need the ash-
trays for playing deck quoits.
As soon as supper’s announced, make
a dive for the dining-room, crouch
behind table, and, as guests enter, let fly
with, a barrage of jellies, ice-cream and
trifles. This bit of originality will put
the finishing touch to your popularity.
Before leaving grab a fistful of silver
cake-forks, somebody else’s hat and
overcoat and shout: “Thanks, Mrs.
Swank. Yours is the worst turn-out I’ve
suffered for years—l’ve had a perfectly
rotten time.” She’ll gush: “Oh, I’m so
glad,” and close the door happily
behind you.
P. C.
Havwon More’s Almanac for 1937.
JAN. —There will be a great rebel offensive
in Spain. The reoels will gain all objectives with
negligible losses, and the loyalists will success-
fully repulse all attacks inflicting heavy losses.
A deputation will protest to N.S.W. Premier
against lottery. Mr. Stevens will express sym-
pathy and promise to place views before
Cabinet. “S.M.H.” leader will appear without
the phrase “Cementing the bonds of Empire.”
A Test batsman in a terrific burst of hitting
will score 18 in an hour
FEB.—A “certain” Lottery Department will
announce extension of prize list. Japan will
send an army corps into n.-w. Chinese province
of Chop Tup Soon; Foreign Office spokesman
will explain move as purely a defensive measure.
Mr. Lyons will announce appointment of Royal
Commission to inquire into the delays of the
Royal Commission which is sifting evidence of
all Royal Commissions from 1901-36.
MAR.—The Council of Churches will pro-
test against holding Sydney Show on Good
Friday; Premier will promise to give it sympa-
thetic consideration. Tokio will announce that
province of Chop Tup Soon will become an in-
dependent State, under Japanese protection.
Name will be changed to Chop Tup Now, and
General Atishoo will be appointed adviser to
its four-year-old Emperor. The R.A.S. will
announce that all attendance records have
been broken for Sydney Show on Good Friday.
APL.—Germany, replying to Britain’s note,
will reaffirm her adherence to non-intervention
pact in Spain. A contingent of 10,000 German
sturmtruppen, dressed as toreadors and grape-
treaders, will leave Bremen for unknown desti-
nation. Easter Conference will reappoint Mr.
Lang Parliamentary leader of N. S. Wales
A.L.P. A motion of confidence in Mr. Lang
will be carried by U.A.P.
MAY. —Mr. Gullett will announce that
trade negotiations with Japan are hopeful.
Customs Department will ban the bowdlerised
version of Grimm’s “The Three Goats Called
Gruff.” Mr. Archdale Parkhill will go abroad
to discuss Empire defence strategy with War
Office experts. A Sydney cleric will aver that
Sydney is the wickedest city in Australia; 200
other clerics will greet the publicity stunt with
suppressed whoops of joy and rush into print.
JUNE. —England will inform America that
it would be futile to discuss payment of war
debts until circumstances favor a review of
whole position; America will agree that this
cannot be interpreted as repudiation. Mr.
Gullett will announce that trade parleys with
Japan have reached a delicate stage, and that
thoughtless criticism might easily wreck negotia-
tions.
JULY. —There will be a big society divorce
in Melbourne, and Spanish war news will be
relegated from front-page screamer headlines in
the dailies to below the accident notices.
“S.M.H.” In Memoriam verse will be found
that rhymes. Mr. Gullett will deny that trade
negotiations with Japan have failed.
AUG. —Princess Margaret Rose will wave her
hand to a plumber mending a water-pipe at
Sandringham; record England-Aus. cable figures
will be set, and the “Flappers’ Weekly” will
make history by chartering an air-liner to rush
the exclusive photos, of the world-shattering
incident. Musso will burst a small blood-vessel
in his neck while addressing four million balilla.
Mr. Gullett will announce that prospects
for full resumption of trade with Japan are
bright.
SEPT. —Mr. Parkhill will return with entourage
from Defence trip; Mr. Lyons will announce
that Defence portfolio is abolished and Mr.
Parkhill will take over the new Fisheries port-
folio. Mr. Creswell O’Reilly will declare that
in future screen kisses, except those between
females, will be strictly limited to duration of
2|sec. An air mail will arrive in Australia to
schedule.
OCT.—N.S.W. police will ban a newsreel
showing the King bathing in shorts at Slupton-
on-Slosh. Mr. Paterson will return from trip
abroad; five of his fellow-passengers will be
allowed to land, the other 944 being excluded
through the dictation test. Retail Traders’
Association will inaugurate Mother-in-law’s Day.
Mr. Gullett will announce that early settlement
of trade dispute with Japan may be looked for.
NOV. —Mr. Spooner, following a strong pro-
test by the Murphy’s Flat branch of the
C.W.A., will prohibit wearing of shorts on
N.S.W. beaches for ensuing season. By advanc-
ing the usual fortnightly revolution from
Thursday to Tuesday insurgents will effect a coup
d’etat and oust the Nicaraguan Government.
Fishermen will issue a warning that sharks are
more numerous along N.S.W. beaches than ever
before. Centenarian in press interview will attri-
bute his longevity to total abstinence from
alcohol and tobacco.
DEC. —Royal Commission inquiring into
Royal Commissions will end, and recommenda-
tions will be pigeonholed; a prominent Aus-
tralian K.C. will buy Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan’s
yacht. The Council of Churches will protest
against N.S.W. State lottery, and the Premier
will express sympathy with their views and
promise to place the matter before his col-
leagues. Mr. Gullett will announce that com-
plete agreement with Japan on the trade dispute
is imminent. A centenarian in a press interview
will attribute his longevity to the fact that he
has smoked and drunk heavily since he was 14.
S. W. K.
The Flower of the Flock.
My lady’s hair is real gold,
Her eyes are truly baby-blue.
She isn’t blase, slick or bold,
But gentle, tender, sweet and true.
She hasn’t got a Garbo drawl,
Nor does she ape the Rogers smile.
She sits with grace; she doesn’t sprawl
In movie-star-perfected style.
My faults and whims she understands ;
She doesn’t persecute me with
Unfair requests nor wild demands —
In short, my lady’s just a myth!
P. O. M. C.
Festive Facilities.
During the fes-
tive season the
edges of all kerbs
should be padded,
and gargoyles pro-
hibited from cran-
ing their necks
over parapets and
gwuncking and
leering at passers-
by. Buildings
should be
restrained, by
means of hawsers
if necessary, from
lurching across
footpaths and
bumping into
pedestrians.
Streets should be
prevented from
wilfully misleading and wearying the
wayfarer by turning on imaginary heels,
thus causing him to arrive back, miles
away, at his starting point, instead of at
his front gate as he patiently desired.
Telegraph wires should all be carefully
tuned so that their crooning of carols
and movie theme-songs may not clash
discordantly with the wayfarer’s own
rendering as he, by dead reckoning,
ambles homeward.
Sandhills, rubbish - tips, jungles,
swamps, quarries
and road-side or
road-ending chasms
should be com-
pelled to remain
where first noticed,
and not allowed to
keep on impeding
the pedestrian all
night long no
matter in which or
how many opposite
directions he walks.
Persons who
cause an avalanche
of empty bottles
and garbage tins to
come galloping
madly down a steep
hill without sound-
ing a gong or giv-
ing other due warn-
ing of its approach
should be bound
over to be of fault-
less behavior for
the next twelve months. If no guarantee
* forthcoming the lash to be lavishly
administered.
DREFS.


■■
è
é
'$ MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
x<oi-zuia>
KEHEQ
k
5
a
N
il
T
□
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
December Issue Now on Sale. '
TUNG OIL AGAIN
THE SHAREMARKET
JAPAN’S MONETARY POLICY
MONTH’S PROSPECTUSES AND BALANCE
SHEETS REVIEWED.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 2J- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and aIL States
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
-Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney. ,
The Largest
Australian Company
• Transacting
Fire, 'Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
The sharemarkets closed for the holi-
days on Wednesday of last week on a
decidedly firm note. Stocks advised on
this page from time to time stood at
figures which leave no cause for re-
grets. The aim has been to select sound
ordinary shares showing yields above the
average—the interest question made
this a point for careful concern —with
possibilities of increased earning power,
and having sound finances. Broken Hill
Prop, was consistently advocated at
figures which show a handsome market
profit on present quotes. Yarra -Falls,
Mt. Lyell, Gordon and Gotch, Castle-
maine Perkins, Adelaide Steam, Mel-
bourne Steam, Meggitt, Holeproof, Pres-
tige, Intercolonial Investment, David
Jones ords. and others have proved satis-
factory both from a dividend and market
point of view. ' These stocks were all in
good demand on Dec. 23.
* * * *
Following a rocketing to £s2* 2s. 6d.
in the price of electrolytic copper a couple
of days before Christmas, ML Lyell
shares soared to 40s, 9d. in Sydney. De-
velopments at the mine have been fully
recorded here during the past 12 months,
and the shares have been considered
attractive since this time last year, when
they were around par. The rise in this
stock has been proportionately greater
than in the Broken Hill cos. over the
same time. Electrolytic copper is now
about £l2 sterling a ton above the aver-
age realised by Mt. Lyell in its last finan-
cial year, when a 10 p.c. div. was paid.
* * * *
Over 12 months ago investors were
warned that interest rates were going to
rise sharply, and pref. shareholders were
told to sell. Holders of David Jones
second prefs., then at 30s. 6d., were ad-
vised to change over to the same co.’s
ords. at 40s. 6d. Last week the prefs.
sold at 28s. 6d., the ords. at 48s. 6d.
These movements are typical of those
in most pref. and ord. issues. Increased
returns are demanded from all classes of
investments, and only so long as profits
outstrip rising interest rates will ord. i
shares be sure of a buoyant market. u:
* * H= * -
A New Year In
Nineteen-thirty-six, for business pur-
poses, is now deceased. Nineteen-thirty-
seven, for the same purposes, will
awaken to life in a week or two. The
new year, in some respects, will find it
hard to kick up its heels and canter
away from slump conditions at the same
rate as 1936 did, for the simple reason
that the scars of the depression have
been, in many cases, left well behind
already, and in some industries and
trades there are suggestions of “boom.”
If our recovery can be consolidated in
1937, however, there are influences at
work that should make it an unusually
prosperous year for some sections of
the Australian people, and an improved
era for nearly all.
The year now closing has seen Com-
monwealth trade-union unemployment
fall from 15.9 p.c. (Sept., ’35) to 12 p.c.
(Sept., ’36). It has seen trading-bank
clearings show a large increase, and a
rise in per capita savings-bank deposits
from £32 13s. sd. to £33 3s. 3d.
The chief forces behind the revived
employment, confidence and spending
are not hard to seek. Tabulated here
earlier this year, they are worth revising
and repeating:
A rise from 111 in the wool-price
index in Sept., ‘34, to 188 in Nov., ’36.
A lift from 85 to 140 in wheat over
the same time.
An improvement in the price of lead
from £ll Is. sterling a ton ( average ) in
1934 to £27 7s. 6d. last week.
Rises from £l3 15s. 6d. in spelter to
£lB 17s. 6d„ and £33 11s. 6d. in elec-
trolytic copper to £52 2s. 6d., on the fore-
going basis of comparison.
A stable price level within the Com-
monwealth for most non-rural goods.
Only a slight increase in money wages
—-the Commonwealth index in June, ’34,
was 811; in June, ’36, 828. Buying
“Take THAT one, George—you'll never get a bargain like it again at'
seven and eleven.”
power of wages dropped from 1029 to
1009 in the same period, but more
people got such wages.
Increased company earnings.
In addition: —-
The public debt mounted by £32,000,000
in the two years to June, ’36, a consider-
able part of which went on “works” and
in grants, and for a time increased
spending. This is one of the dubious
factors.
Improvement in world prices for wool,
wheat, lead, spelter, copper, other metals,
etc., has been most noticeable over the
past few months. This applies to wheat
and lead particularly; the benefits which
seemed about to drop into the Austra-
lian woolgrower’s lap towards the clos-
ing of the 1935-36 season were deferred
by reason of the ridiculous and disas-
trous trade dispute with Japan, and only
now are we seeing the staple fetch 18d.,
a figure which, on the statistical posi-
tion, promised to be exceeded early in
the. season.
Not for a long time has there been
such a feeling of general well-being, so
far as the individual is allowed to shape
his own economic destiny. In the wool
and wheat areas, at Broken Hill, on the
Tasmanian West Coast (where Mt. Lyell
and Electrolytic Zinc are at work), on
the Westralian and Victorian goldfields,
and at Cobar (N.S.W.) and a few out-
standing gold-bearing districts in Queens-
land —in all these areas of activity that
work towards bringing in our basic
income there is a cheerfulness not seen
so generally since 1928 or earlier. The
dairying districts are the one depressed
spot at the moment.
Factory production is buoyant, and
the B.H.P. steelworks were never busier
—a reliable indicator of activity in the
construction trades. City and suburban
building shows little sign of slackening,
though there must sooner or later be a
halt in the erection of new skyscrapers.
The bright side of the picture having
been given the once-over, 'the unpleasant
side also should be looked at.
It is a side that is capable of being
immensely improved, because the look-
ing-after of it at present is incredibly
bad. National and Government finance ;
what a headache, the position here is
giving to responsible business and finan-
cial people! A borrow-and-bust policy,
together with a spendthrift overseas
trade attitude, has caused a runaway
upward movement in interest rates, a
tightening-up in credit facilities available
in the Commonwealth and in London,
and other attendant evils of Government
waste and trade mismanagement.
The individual fin 1937 will, it seems,
have to paddle his canoe, which is in fair
trim, against adverse'Conditions created
largely by Governments. \ Criticism of
this kind may appear platitudinous and'
carping because of the frequency with
which it occurs here. It is unfortunately
more than justified.
Frank Clarke, a director of the
National Bank and president of the Vic,
Legislative Council, said last week that
the Commonwealth Bank and trading
banks were doing their best to keep in-
terest rates down, but the rates at which
Governments were inviting loans were
making the task impossible. The price
of money was rising steadily, and 6 } p.c.
mortgages and 5} p.c. Government loans
looked like returning if the drift wasn’t
checked. Clarke’s opinion (expressed in
the Council) was that people didn’t have
the money to subscribe for loans ; on
the other hand, they wanted all the
assistance they could get from the banks.
Loans would continue to fail if Govern-
ments kept asking for large sums of
money. It is some time since we have
heard a Parliamentary utterance as
expertly critical as this.
* * *
Producers’ and General Finance, the
co. which changed its name from Cran-
wells when it took over the P.P. Bank
assets, and which later went into the
cash-order business, was listed on Syd-
ney ’Change last week. First dealings
in the ords. were at 345., with a lift to
355. 6d. last Wednesday. The co. is re-
ported to be doing a growing and profit-
able cash-order business, while the P.P.
Bank assets promise a tidy surplus on
eventual liquidation. A div. is coming
shortly.
* * * *
Following the first big rises in South
Seas, copra (at £2O 15s. sterling in Lon-
don last week), the ord. shares in Morris
Hedstrom ords., 275.
when suggested, closed
at 28s. 6d.-30s. before
Christmas.
* *
Bank of N. S. Wales
shares closed at £36,
buyers, on Dec. 23.
The fall to £33 12s. 6d.,
as stated here a fort-
night ago, was unjusti-
fied. The lowest point
reached by this stock
during the slump was
£27, and if that was a
fair price then, £36
now is fully warranted.
Banks usually reflect
the tone of general prosperity in their
earnings, and these institutions should
have a further improved year in 1937.
The market seemed to think so, too, at
the closing of the ’Changes.
* * * *
Meggitt ords. have lifted to the record
figure of 31s. 6d. It now appears to be
a well-established business, with profit-
able ramifications in the linoleum and
other trades, and with the speculative ele-
ments on the buying side, at one time so
disastrous, largely eliminated. Activity
in the paint trade is using up surplus lin-
seed oil, and the lino.-making affiliations
are a big help in this direction.
* * * *
Wheat dropped to ss. 4d. in Sydney
last week, in sympathy with overseas
market trends. There was heavy profit-
taking sales prior to the holidays, and
this for the time being swamped the
demand. In the long run the outlook is
bright enough.
* * * He
Stocks which showed only moderate
sustained appreciation during 1936 were
Australian Glass ords. and Beard Wat-
son ditto. , Ord. shares which fell back
included United Provisions, Lustre
Hosiery and Broomfields. Picture scrip
has also been weak.
* * * *
In ,< Melbourne last week:
.Quotation for local stocks closed very firmly
on ’Change. Carlton Brewery at 655. 6d. was
up ss.‘ 6d. since pointed out here as offering an
opportunity a few weeks ago. Holeproof
ords. sold at 295. In the gpld section Central
Nell Gwynne changed hands at 60s.
Broken Hill Prop, lifted to above 835.,
Castlemaine-Perkins sold at 255., Electro-
lytic Zinc ords. at 525. 9d. and Henry Jones
at 48s. A really spirited buying market alto-
gether.


For STOCKRUN or HOMESTEAD
There’s nothing better or cheaper for
water supply than wind harnessed to
BiLLABONG OR COO-EE
WINDMILLS
Write for Particulars.
Enclose a rough diagram
of your proposed water
scheme for special and
particular information.
II
m
ji.
ms
• SENSITIVE TO LIGHT BREEZES
• AUTOMATICALLY SAFE IN A GALE
9 DOUBLE ENCLOSED GEARS
• DUST—RAIN—WINDPROOF
• SELF-OILING DEVICE. RIGID IRON TOWER
Backed by a name that counts. Moderate prices. -
WE CARRY MODERN IRRIGATION
SUPPLIES AND SUPPLIES FOR BUILDERS.
PLUMBERS, PAINTERS and ELECTRICIANS.
e
’Phone: CB3BO.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: M 6505.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
w
#
*
anc/ f/ie ball
is going straight to the fence
Seething with interest and full of surprises,
cricket is like the Radioplayer which
brings it into your home the apex of
exciting entertainment.
Made by the makers of the famous Philips
Lamps, each Radioplayer represents true
value for every penny spent. Ask your
Accredited Radioplayer retailer to demon-
strate these amazing musical instruments.
PHILIPS
6R47
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
>
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:—
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Gold in the Solomons
Gold is a pleasant topic for discussion
at Christmas or any other time. Not
often do people who put money into
gold shows see as much of the stuff as
a man brought into The Bulletin office
last week. Alluvial it was, from the
Solomons; nice big slugs, mixed with
finer, flakier particles and black sand.
Goldmining is a pastime for those who
like it, and gold-share speculating is legi-
timate only for those who can afford to
lose money, and who can keep their
head if they make a good profit. It is
generally a mug who puts his whole
capital into a gold show ; a flutter of
£lO or £2O should be the average wage-
earner’s limit. Those who know the
game, or who rate higher than “wage-
earners,” are a law unto themselves.
Les J. Davis —a director of Pioneer
Expedition, which promoted Mandated
Alluvials, now working on the Moresby
King (Papua)—was the man with the
gold last week. He has been talking
about this show in the Solomons for over
12 months ; and now that the leases are
through (it was a long job, the adminis-
tration being in Fiji) a development co.,
Solomon Islands Gold Sluicing, Ltd., is
shortly to be formed.
Pioneer Expedition controls Solomon
Islands Gold Development, Ltd., which is
selling its areas on the upper reaches of
the Sorvohio and Tsarivonga Rivers,
on the island of Guadalcanal, to the
Sluicing Co. for 100,000 ss. shares and
£7OOO in cash—£32,ooo altogether. The
public is to be offered 200,000 shares at
par, which would give the co. a working
capital of £43,000, subject to payment
of preliminary exes., and a paid-up capi-
tal of £75,000. Some of the public issue
in the first instance will be offered to
shareholders in associated cos.
S.I.G.D. has granted an option to
British interests up to Sept. 15, 1937,
over leases lower down the Sorvohio
River, estimated to contain between
18,000,000 and 21,000,000 c.y., with
6,000,000 c.y. going 4s. to 4s. 6d.
A road has been constructed from the
coast to the foothills, a distance of 14
miles. Surveys have been carried out
over the area, which is described as a
virgin field —testing, etc., has occupied
about 18 months. The yellow metal
occurs in the stream-bed and flats. About
2000 acres is being taken over by the
Sluicing Co., which has been “subjected
to numerous tests by bores, pits and
boxing” by the co.’s engineer.
Depth of ground in the stream-beds is
about 9ft. in the lower reaches, decreas-
ing to 4ft. 6in. near the head of the
rivers. On the flats, depths are from 9ft.
to 20ft., and the gold varies from fine
to 7dwt. and lOdwt. slugs. The areas
comprise 2.3 miles along the Tsarivonga
River and 6.6 miles along the Sorvohio.
H. J. Ault, who looked over the prop-
erty and is now on his way back to the
Solomons, estimated values for 933,000
cubic yards at 10s. per c.y. —total
£465,410, all values at £6 per fine ounce.
Boulders are said to vary from Ift. in
diameter in the lower areas to an occa-
sional 9ft. giant in the upper reaches of
the Sorvohio. The method of develop-
ment recommended is to shift the
boulders (to form a roadway above
stream-level) with a caterpillar drag-
line swinging crane, and to lift the
gravels to sluice-boxes above the
creeping roadway with a pump. Sharp
floods in the stream occur nearly every
afternoon, but rarely In the mornings.
Cost of a suitable plant is estimated at
£29,454.
Ault, who only deals with the prop-
erty under immediate consideration, esti-
mates a life of 10 years for the areas,
with an annual working profit of
£35,100. As this figure has been com-
puted on a £6-an-ounce basis, with gold
at £8 16s. (Aust.) returns to Common-
wealth investors would be considerably
higher, provided always that volume,
values and costs as estimated are actu-
ally achieved. It appears a promising
proposition, not yet fully proved, but
with so much preliminary work done that
it is ready for development. If the job
can be carried through with the capital
issue now proposed, it will not be over-
loaded with shares.


I
&
10
V
s/
o
or
o
I
■
WHETTER
M* ■: jt'-Jl WSi
*•
H
HBSi
V‘*
ii
Wa
:
®W*
M
■
i
: I
:
A Present with a Future
l
RAM
The World’s Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros., Aust. (Pty.), Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons and Hoffnungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Saturday was a beast of a day at
Randwick. It rained the whole time,
and punters growled at the early start —
12.30 —and the long intervals. And most
of them lost their money. But there
were some exciting finishes, particularly
in the Summer Cup, wherein Sir Ross
and El Senorita had a thrilling set-to all
the way along the straight. Both are
trained at Rosehill—by Anderson and
Hewitt respectively. Auto Buz was a
good third.
Hewitt entered a protest on the
ground that Knox, the rider of Sir Ross,
had “struck Heather, on El Senorita,
causing him to lose his whip.” It was
dismissed, and Hewitt was fined £5 for
“lodging a frivolous objection.” Few
people saw anything frivolous about it.
As they saw it, Knox chopped El
Senorita off too quickly when taking the
lead, and got a break of two or three
lengths. El Senorita ran on again and
got within a half-neck of Sir Ross. Many
thought it would be the Oro-High Cross
affair over again and backed their
opinion at short odds.
According to the stewards, Sir Ross
was well clear when he crossed and so
far from having the whip in his right
hand, as asserted by Heather, “Knox
is a left-handed rider.”
Sir Ross is raced on lease by Ander-
son and Viles. He is a low-set chestnut
son of Rossendale, was served by his
light weight (7st. 21b.) and was suited
by the soft conditions. Jovial Son could
not manage the going and was beaten
a long way from home. So was Young
Crusader. Spark looked dangerous until
the last furlong. Oro was handicapped
by his 9st. 21b.
Lynch Law (6 to 4 on) was never
extended in the December Stakes. The
going did not bother him a bit, and he
romped home from Rodborough . and
Own Folk. His owner, Allan Lewis, is
a Sydney businessman. Lynch Law, who
cost 500 guineas, will now go into retire-
ment until the autumn, when he will
tackle the crack Victorian youngsters.
In conformation and galloping ability he
resembles Gold Rod.
For some unaccountable reason Ezra
Norton-’s colt Stalin was made, favorite
for the Chisholm Handicap. He could
only run tenth. Water Waggon (14 to 1)
and Moaenza, both prepared at Rosehill,
had a dingdong battle over the last three
furlongs, the Tippler colt securing the
verdict by a neck; the Queenslander,
Happy Returns, was a good third. He
is a proved mudlark. Country Party,
having his first race for over 12 months,
came home excellently, and he can be
improved a good deal.
Brazeno (14 to 1), raced by the veteran
Newcastle sportsman J. G. Cameron and
trained by Ray Cashman, was not all
out to win the Christmas Trial from
Might Not and the Bathurst-owned
Brown Betty. The Athenian and Wagner
were popular picks, but though the
former finished fourth after being wide
out he was never a likely place-getter.
Wagner was anchored by his weight.
On Parade (5 to 1) made hacks of his
opponents in the A.J.C. Handicap. The
M.L. gelding was not asked to gallop
at his top until the Leger was in sight;
he scored, running away, from Auto-
land and Fireman. Un Brave, having his
second run, was fourth. Mananui re-
fused to gallop. Me was sent along from
barrier rise, but dropped out as the race
progressed and beat only two home.
Bundar was prominent. He is better at
a mile, though he was squeezed back
when Fireman made his run.
* * * *
Heather was compensated for his ex-
perience. with El Senorita by getting the
mount on Falstaff (7 to 1) in the Car-
rington Stakes on Monday. Going out for
the race Falstaff showed an apparent dis-
taste for his job and resisted the jockey’s
efforts to get him to the post. But once
the barrier was lifted there was no more
shirking on his part. In a handy posi-
tion at the entrance to the straight, the
chestnut took charge about a furlong
from home and from that point nothing
troubled him. He won by a couple of
lengths from King’s Head, who was a
neck in front of the heavily-backed Some
Boy.
Although no more rain had fallen,
there was no sting in the track and the
time—lmin. 11-fsec. —was in the cir-
cumstances very creditable. King’s Head,
with 9st. 51b., was giving Falstaff 271 b.,
and his was a capital effort.
Falstaff, previously thought in and
out, has developed into a most con-
sistent sprinter. His last four starts
two at Warwick Farm, one at Rosebery
and one at Randwick—have now yielded
four successes, and in each case he left
the result in no doubt. He is a six-
year-old gelding by Tippler-No Belle,
owned and trained by W. Miller..
Again backers fared rather badly.
Moss’s very expensive purchase Edible
failed to show form worth two bob in
the Novice Handicap, in which he went
out at evens. Sir Caledon, the winner
(at fours), is a likely-looking chestnut by
Caledon-Wilhelmina racing in Munson’s
colors. And Black Fern gave the gen-
erality of punters an unpleasant surprise
in the Pace Welter —success for Bundar,
the runner-up would have been far more
palatable. Black Fern, a four-year-old
mare by Fernkloof-Sybil Bar, runs for
another owner-trainer from Kensington
—Allotta.
Upoko Ariki, one of Jamieson’s, tried
to make every post a winner in the Den-
man Handicap, but could not see it out.
Irving seemed to have the race in his
keeping with a hundred yards or so to
go, but coming with a late run, Loud
Applause just got there, On Parade being
a good third. Loud Applause is in the
Tattersall’s Club Cup with 7st. 131 b., and
it was a satisfactory trial.
* * * *
“T.T.”: The “peculiarity of the Rand-
wick tote” mentioned in “Picking ’Em”
(B. 23/12/’36). was in evidence on Box-
ing Day. It didn’t register in respect of
Lynch Law, whose dividends (for 10s.)
were 16s. straightout and 15s. for a
place. Fancy getting 2 to I—in1 —in a field
of six—on a nag that would have had
to fall down to be out of the money!
* * * *
Golden Promise ought to be an out-
standing performer at the autumn meet-
ings. After finishing an impressive
second to his stable companion, Young
Idea, in the Caulfield Stakes this four-
year-old stallion bruised a heel while
competing in the Caulfield C up. The
trouble was serious enough to put an
tQ further ing racing , and
Golden - Promise was throW n out of
c
train . g - .
Holt, who trains Golden Promise for
j M Nial]> of the y.R.c. committee,
sadd [ ed U p the son G f Limond for the
M a i vern Handicap at Caulfield. The
sty ß s h brown Wa s in such glowing health
that punters took him on trust as a bet-
ting medium. From 10 to 1 Golden
Promise firmed to sixes, though money
had been piled on Riddle (7 to 2, favorite)
and Hostile (9 to 2, after 6 to 1 had been
] a id).
• • • . •
Golden Promise—appearances to the
contrary—wasn’t anything like as for-
ward in condition as Hostile. Latter
had won and finished third (unlucky to
lose) in two recent starts. J. E. Smedley,
owner and trainer, tuned him right up
for Boxing Day, whereas Holt, with an
eye to big races in February and March,
did not set Golden Promise any really
serious tests on the track.
In the circumstances it says volumes
for Golden Promise that he was able
to run Hostile to a long head. When Ash-
ley Reed pushed his mount through on
the rails at the distance it seemed that
he would surely overhaul Smedley’s
representative, but Turoa Webster had
a bit up his sleeve.
How Riddle came to finish last in the
Malvern Handicap is one of those too-
frequent turf happenings that pass the
comprehension of the poor punter. On
private form the Baralong colt was
labelled a good thing, and his young
mentor “Billy” Godby (son of C.T.) had
visions of a feather in his cap as trainer.
Something must have gone w,rong on
the journey. It could not have been
Riddle’s true form.
Dick Devon’s success in the Hopetoun
Handicap, of 11 furlongs, gives this six-
year-old son of Devonshire an un-
doubted chance in the V.R.C. Bagot
Handicap on New Year’s Day. The
extra furlong will suit a horse who can
“sit pretty” behind the leaders (as he did
on Saturday) and assume control at the
half-distance. • Dick Devon and Gay
Sheik shared favoritism, having ousted
Beau Ham from the head of the quotes.
Beau Ham is far from being as good
as some people imagined. He let backers
down badly at Epsom a week before,
and the Caulfield display was even more
disappointing. Beau Ham dropped back
last at the half-mile, and the five horses
that he passed in the run home were
easing up. Gay Sheik was near the front
at the wrong end of the race. He ran
unplaced, but will do better.
If Beau Ham does something to re-
deem his reputation in the near future
it will not occasion more surprise than
the fact of Amalia having gained second
place in the Hopetoun Handicap after
being last to finish in the race for which
Beau Ham started favorite at Epsom.
Her Caulfield display must have taken
the connections of Amalia by surprise,
for 25 to 1 could be obtained —long odds
about a mare that, as recently as Novem-
ber 14, captured the Williamstown Cup
against strong opposition. Norman
Creighton, newly returned from M.L.,
renewed association with Amalia on
Saturday. It may be that the S.A. mare
travels better for him than for other
jockeys.
Studio enhanced her Standish Handi-
cap prospects by annexing the Christmas
Handicap, for which*she started a 7-to-2
favorite. This brilliant mare is raced
by her breeder, J. M. Niall, who owns
Golden Promise. After winning three
times on end in June she was thrown
out of training. Studio comes to hand
very quickly. Master Motley and Cereza
(each at 9 to 2) filled the minor places
on Saturday. Of the pair Cereza is the
more likely to trouble Studio in the
Flemingt'on sprint.
Owned in Sydney by E. J. Watt, of
the AJ.C. committee, Cereza was left in
Melbourne by G. P. Nailon on the
occasion of her spring visit because of
having been banned on courses in and
around her own city. The daughter o£
Heroic is still rather unruly at the post.
Rupert Greene, starter at Caulfield,
ordered her to the outside of the field ;
but she rose superior to such disciplinary
action by being first away.
Cereza is trained for the time being
by Frank Godby, in whose charge
Nailon also left Bonnie Rollux, the
jumper. Making only his second effort
over brush fences, Bonnie Rollux won
the Oberon Steeple in memorable
fashion. Going out at 7 to 2he joined
issue with the 5-to-2 favorite, My Talis-
man, a mile from home. First one horse
and then the other got his head in front.
Bonnie Rollux gained at every jump
except the last, where he blundered and
nearly unseated Driscoll. On the flat
he had too much pace for My Talisman
and beat him by three-quarters of a
length. None of the other runners had
a look in, and Bonnie Rollux clipped
2|sec. off the previous course record for
the “about two miles and three fur-
longs/’ covering the distance in 4min.
32|sec.
* * lie *
Jongleur, favorite for the W.A. Derby,
was downed by Oceanus (4 to 1), a colt
by Pantheon-Recede, related on the
dam’s side to the defunct Homer. In
the Perth Stakes Yaringa (5 to 4) could
only dead-heat with Sipal (6 to 1);• all
the same, this Maoriland-bred mare
looks like winning the Perth Cup.
* * * *
A smart S.A.-bred four-year-old in
Lord Alfred (King of Mirth-Anton
Star) got away with the Port Adelaide
Club’s Christmas Handicap at Chelten-
ham. He went out at 8 to 1. The
much-travelled Phenomenon (14 to 1)
was second and Djedda (20 to 1) third.
Beamish Boy was favorite. This son of
Windbag has failed to live up to the
high opinion formed of him on his one
visit to Sydney, but there is still time
for him to come good.
(Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
Brown comes into Australia’s team for
the third Test in Melbourne. O’Brien
remains, but will probably be twelfth
man. Robinson and Sievers make way
for Darling and Fleetwood-Smith. Old-
field retains his place. He is lucky, for
Tallon and Barnett are ’keeping as well
and batting much better.
In Melbourne over the holidays Fleet-
wood-Smith took five N.S.W. wickets—
the first three among them —for 110.
Mudge (46), Jackson (46) and Hynes
(39) were the chief contributors to a
NS.W. score of 252. Victoria had put
on 318 (Rigg 100, Hassett 83, Ledward
60 and Barnett 45). Lush, a young fast
bowler with a nice, easy action, got five
for 74.
# # * *
“Centurion”: My idea of Australia’s
best side: Bradman, Badcock, Brown,
Allen (Q.), Fingleton, McCabe, McCor-
mick, Gregory, Tallon, O’Reilly and
Fleetwood-Smith. If Halcombe’s action
were not in doubt I would put him in
McCormick’s place. The only dud bats-
men in that team are McCormick,
O’Reilly and F.-Smith. Every other man
has made his century in first-class
cricket. McCormick, Gregory, O’Reilly
and F.-Smith, with McCabe as a change,
are about the best bowling bunch we can
command.
* * * *
Tallon’s century was a feature of the
Q.-S.A. match in Adelaide. Coming in
when three wickets were down for five,
Tallon made 101 in 145 minutes, and
gave only one chance, a catch to the
’keeper when he was 97. Oxenham (43
n. 0.) helped him to bring the total to
205 (Williams five for 29, Cotton two
for 35, Grimmett three for 80.) S.A.
got 294 (Hammence 104 and Schultz 41).
Amos five for 83.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: First time I interviewed
Fleetwood-Smith, Australia’s bowling
hope for the next Test, he had very
little to say for himself. It was about
26 years ago, in his home town, Stawell
(Vic.). His mother introduced him, say-
ing proudly, “Here’s another little jour-
nalist.” I dug him in the ribs and said,
“How d’ye do,” and he answered ami-
ably “Goo, goo.” It was all he could
say at the time as he was a baby in
arms. His mother’s prediction was a
natural 'one as she was a journalist, her
husband was a journalist and her father
had been a journalist; but young Fleet-
wood, as he grew up, developed other
ideas. He is sure to turn pressman when
he retires from cricket.
(Continued on next page.)
A Victorian driver, L. Murphy, in an
M.G “P” type car won the S.A. centen-
ary Grand Prix at Victor Harbor, com-
pleting 250 miles in 3hrs. 39min. 6sec.;
average speed, 68 m.p.h. O. S. Cran-
ston, a Westralian, driving a Ford
VB, put up fastest time —3hrs. 20min.
17sec.—and J. H- Fagan (N.S.W.), in a
K 3 Magnette completed the fastest lap
of the seven and a half miles circuit,
averaging 81 m.p.h. The Tourist
Trophy 50 miles scratch race for side-
cars went to a South Australian, R.
Badger, on an Ariel, in 46min. Bsec.,
and Badger also took the handicap
event in 42min. Bsec.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Jan McShane, Rhodes
scholar, Oxford blue and skipper
and N.S.W. representative, is returning
to Australia to join the staff of the
B.H.P. McShane, one of the best scrum
halves the country has seen of late years,
was not available for the South African
tour, and only injury kept him from his
English international cap.
FOR RANDWICK.
New Year’s Gift: Heroina;
next, Stalin.
Trial Stakes: The Athenian;
next, Tuckerbox.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Jovial Son;
next, Loud Applause.
Flying Welter: Country Party ;
next, Distinguished.
Alfred Hill Handicap: Friar’s
Switch ; next, Korimako.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Sefton Handicap: Misnomer;
next, Bulldozer.
January Handicap: Curator;
next, King Gee.
Berala Handicap: Short Wave;
next, Bombus.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Standish Handicap: Cereza;
next, Studio.
Bagot Handicap: Gay Sheik;
next, Amalia.
Welter: Golden Promise; next,
Dame Chatter.


«SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LININQ
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service •
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
OldVffW
pawn with EXCESS SOOT/
-rf steals your car's power
To get gl} the speed, aU the power that
your engine can give, you must provide
lulL powerful sparks that ignite and bum
aU the fuel instantly. This reduces carbon
and soot the thieves of power. For these
better sparks, install new Champions once,
every year.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOR . CANADA •
••AN EMPIRE PRODUCT-
Under the Whip
Melbourne is closing another pros-
perous racing year, Sydney a merely
middling one. When one Melbourne
club, and that only the third in impor-
tance, gives more prize-money in a season
than any four Sydney proprietary clubs,
the Government as well as racing ad-
ministrators in the city which suffers in
the comparison ought to do all it can to
redress the balance, but the Stevens Gov-
ernment just lets things drift. It goes
on charging racegoers twice the ordi-
nary tram and train tariff, imposing a
blistering racecourse admission tax and
taking 9 p.c. from the tote pools.
And, of course, it never even thinks of
doing away with proprietary racing on
the Melbourne plan of compensation
meetings. Instead it diverts a large
body of police from their proper duties
to pursue s.p. bookmakers and bettors.
One result is that it has dismissed lots
of policemen on the strength of a Royal
Commissioner’s report that the convic-
tions in s.p. cases were obtained by im-
proper methods. In racing matters, to
mention no others, the Stevens Govern-
ment, next to the last Lang calamity, is
the silliest Administration that N. S.
Wales can remember. The extraordinary
thing is that a former bookmaker who is
reckoned to have a good head on his
shoulders is one of the Ministers. Evi-
dently his colleagues never consult him.
* * * *
This Page’s faith in Gay Sheik was re-
warded when the son of Gay Shield—
Lady Marie, won the J. L. Reilly Stakes
at Epsom, beating Bonus and Nissa after
having been backed from tens to sevens.
Amalia and Aitchengee were in the field
and the market. When Gay Sheik was
the subject of a plunge at Warwick Farm
before he went to Melbourne, a Bulle-
tin man had a good look at him and de-
cided he would need a lot of racing
before he reached his top. He got 7st.
91b. in the Hopetoun Handicap at Caul-
field, and is in the Bagot Handicap at
Flemington with 7st. 101 b. Possibly a
mile and a half may not suit him, but at
Epsom he got to the end of a mile and a
quarter and finished fast.
* * * *
Cuddle has to earn her oats. Back in
the business in her native Maoriland,
she won a mile and a quarter race at
Otaki and then the Auckland Cup—
again. No mare of recent years has had
so much to do as Cuddle in 1936, and
she will be a marvel if it does not tell
on her.
* * * *
The re-entry of some of Jamieson’s
horses after their year’s spell is rough
on the handicappers. Latharna’s fourth
in the Chelmsford Stakes as a three-year-
old must suggest to them that he is pretty
good, but his record in other races is
so poor that they can’t give him much
weight, so they have to resign them-
selves to the thought that he may wreck
one of their handicaps. The same with
Country Party. In the V.R.C. Batman
Stakes Country Party beat Bustard at
least 121 b.—he received 91b. The
stewards disqualified him, so when he
returned to the game he was technically
a maiden. Handicappers are in the posi-
tion that they can neither overlook that
performance nor treat the four-year-old
as a good winner at three years. In
the Chisholm Handicap on Saturday
Country Party had Bst. 21b., there being
a 7st. minimum. The Marne was given
9st. 101 b. and High 9st. After Bustard
got the Batman Stakes he was third in
the Williamstown Cup to Garrio, first
in the Williamstown Stakes, “weight-for-
age and allowances,” beating Sylvandale,
and first in the V.R.C. Elms Handicap
—with 9st. 31b. This season he was an
unlucky second in the Williamstown
Cup. Handicappers probably have a
dismal feeling that Country Party is a
better horse than Bustard—up to a mile,
at any rate —but they can’t act on it till
Jamieson’s horse furnishes proof.
M.Q. and Rafferfy
In the tenth round of his Sydney
Stadium contest with Richards, after a
clinch broken by the burly referee, Fred
Henneberry fell like a log and was
counted out. He had been getting all
over the Queenslander and seemed cer-
tain of a victory on points when he
dropped. Richards swears that a left
to the chin and two more to the right
temple* did the damage, but no one else
has come forward to testify that he saw
these blows land.
Henneberry’s collapse did not astonish
at least one Sydney pressman. The
latter had a good look at the middle-
weight at a race-meeting and remarked
to a friend that Henneberry was a pallid
and worried-looking pug. This he re-
peated on the night of the mill, saying
that if he were a betting man he would
back Richards, although Richards was
neither so fast nor so stiff a puncher.
The Henneberry case recalls that of
a former champion and the affair of an-
“ Don't dip 'em TOO deep, boys—Tm trying a new manoeuvre !”
other boxer who was addicted to falling
in ring and street from no apparent
cause. That bruiser has returned to his
risky calling. If the calling were
properly regulated this would not be per-
mitted.
Unpopular as other commissions have
become, the state of boxing in Australia
—in N. S. Wales especially—calls for the
appointment of a Boxing Commission
with a decent and knowledgeable veteran
like Morgan (“Paddy King”) at its head.
It could be financed by fixed percen-
tages of boxers’ earnings and promoters’
takings. And Morgan or a man of his
stamp would make, it his business to see
that young boxers were properly coached
and trained, medically examined at regu-
lar intervals, paid union rates (no “couple
of bob a round”), neither overmatched
nor slugged unconscious when no longer
capable, of protecting themselves, and in-
sured against injury and permanent in-
capacity.
In some respects the condition of the
Game in Australia has never been worse.
Modern methods are demanded. Boxers
are entitled to a New Deal. Following,
as they do, a dangerous trade, they are the
one section of workers without legal pro-
tection of any sort, and it is no credit
to Australian politicians that it should
be so.
Ins and Outs
England carried its second Test score
to 426 before Allen, after a night of rain,
closed with six down and sent Australia
in. Hammond made 231 n.o. very meth-
odically ; most of the others were content
to potter along and let him score.
Barnett provided an exception with a
bright 57. Of the Australian bowling the
best that can be said was that it was
not as bad as the fielding. McCormick
and Ward took two expensive wickets
each. O’Reilly (1-86) failed once more.
Allen’s tactics brought about Aus-
tralia’s abject collapse for 80 runs in
their first fry on a pitch affected by
rain, though not excessively so, since it
rolled out perfectly a few minutes later
to a batsman’s wicket. Mad hitting by
O’Reilly brought him 37 and Chipper-
field and Fingleton reached 13 and 12
respectively. O’Brien, Bradman and
McCabe captured ducks in rapid suc-
cession. Fast bowlers Voce (4-10) and
Allen (3-19) again did the damage.
Sent' in again, Australia found an easy
batting pitch, but failed by 22 runs to
save an innings defeat. Fingleton (73),
Bradman (82) and McCabe (93) gave the
side a fine start. Badcock came from a
sick bed to bat, but did no good and our
hopeless tail of six ran true to form —
lay down and died. Six wickets were
down for 318 when the rot started. The
rest could only raise the total to 324.
Voce and Hammond took three wickets
apiece.
Generally our bowling was little but
excellent batting practice for the Eng-
lishmen and our fielding the worst seen
from an Australian eleven for a
long time. O’Reilly has, apparently, been
converted to the fat-headed press-box
belief that a bowler’s sole existence
should be devoted to sending up maiden
overs and not getting wickets. He has
put this belief into practice so assidu-
ously that in every innings he has helped
the Englishmen to play themselves in,
and it is doubtful whether, on his last
two Test performances, he is not of
more value to a team as a batsman than
as a bowler. Sievers should never have
been in the eleven and Chipperfield is
to be given a spell in the pavilion. Old-
field shaped very poorly in this match,
dropping at least one important catch,
and a “sitter” at that. A rest would do
him no harm either.
Ol the 136 Tests played, England has
now won 54 to our 53, 29 being drawn.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Australian flop in
Sydney has revived the argument whether
wickets should be covered for Tests as
they are for Sheffield games. The real
question is whether covering is worth
while or does any good if the rain is
heavy.. While the Australians were
bewailing an uncovered wicket in Syd-
ney, Queenslanders in Melbourne were
lamenting one which had suffered by
seepage under the cover and “sweating”
caused by the heavy air-confining tar-
paulin. Why not play cricket on some
form of pitch not affected by rain? If
concrete is objected to, surely someone
can be found ingenious enough to invent
a rain-defying substance like the stuff
used to make tout-en-cas tennis courts.
On the Continent courts of this material
are used f or international and Davis Cup
matches, and there is no reason save
sentiment why big cricket should not
change over from grass pitches to arti-
ficial ones. It is admitted that gate con-
siderations now entirely govern cricket.
Why then risk the financial outlook by
playing on pitches whereon rain may
render play impossible? Far better to
give the sides a wicket on which the
opposing skippers can say with General
Grant, “I’ll fight it out on this line if
it takes all summer.”
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Hammond’s double
century in the Sydney Test brings the
N.S.W. ground into line with Kenning-
ton Oval, where four double centuries
have also been tacked up in Tests. In
Sydney, the performers were Hammond
himself in 1928-29 (251), R. E. Foster in
1903-04 (287) and Syd Gregory in 1894-
95 (201). All the Oval scores are credited
to Australians, 232 and 244 by Brad-
man, 266 by Ponsford and 211 by Billy
Murdoch.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland comes out
of the Test with a profit of £4OOO, of
which the Board of Control bites off
£lOOO. This Test-money is pooled, and
when the board has deducted all expenses
is whacked among the States in pro-
portion to their representation on the
board. Thus three-thirteenths will go to
N.S.W., Victoria and South Australia,
two-thirteenths to Queensland and one-


/SrSANE MOTORING
m
fm
: v:
w,
vfl *
Onlv accurate pressures will give your tyres the perfect
balance which means so much to your comfort and safety
on the road. And only a gauge of proved efficiency and
precision is worthy of your confidence for the regular testing
of your tyres. . _ , • ,
Cheap gauges offer vou price advantage, but cannot
guarantee the KISMET feature of ACCURACY—which is
so essential in a tyre gauge.
KISMET
4 (jauqe is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading
llh. units individually numbered on wide, flat
surfaces.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD,, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
ypv
m
■.W.WW;
#
888&
iiIMHI
Sheffield Shield Cricket
N.S.W. v. QUEENSLAND
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, January 1,2, 4 and 5.
Play commences 12 noon.
ADMISSION —Outer Ground: Adults, 1/6; Children, 6d.
Grandstand: Adults, 2/6; Children, 1/-#
H. Heydon, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George_StreeU_Sydney^_
thirteenth each to Tassie and Westralia.
What Bananaland will do with the profits
has not been decided yet. Of late a
considerable sum out of the sock has
been advanced to Brisbane C.G. trustees
without any paralysing improvement in
that primitive arena being noticed.
* '* * *
“Statis”: Bradman has passed Clem
Hill’s record in Tests for an Australian
batsman—266o runs. Hill played in 41
Tests • Bradman has figured in 20. Hobbs
(3636) and Sutcliffe (2741) are the lead-
ing Englishmen.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Hunting for an excuse
for a dashed good hiding, some Sydney
writing-man discovered that Bradman s
efforts as captain have been foiled
by a secret cabal in the team. J ust who
the villains are and how they put in their
dirty work has not been divulged. The
truth is that Bradman has not been a
success as skipper. He showed poor
judgment in handling his bowling in both
Tests. He might take a lesson from
Allen’s quick changes if wickets are not
falling. This is a tradition of good cap-
taincy, and at least compels the bats-
man to face a new problem at intervals
instead of learning to play the same
bowling automatically and with his eyes
shut.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Woodfull reckons that the
Australian side badly needs another fast
bowler. The trouble is there isn’t one in
sight if we except Halcombe, whose dis-
puted action is against him. A possi-
bility is young Dixon, of Queensland,
who has shown promise against England
and Victoria —the only two big games
in which he has taken part. He is of
good physique, with a nice easy action,
and can keep a length.
* * * *
Queensland was butchered to make a
Fleetwood-Smith holiday in Melbourne,
Victoria winning by an innings and 85
runs in a match which brought the Vic-
torian googly merchant 15 wickets for
96 runs. After Queensland’s interesting
tip and run —from the pavilion and back
—in the first innings the Victorians ran
up 309, Darling playing a neat shot for
111. In their second try the Banana-
landers reached 175; Allen, the Too-
woomba batsman, scored 101. Dixon,
the Queensland fast bowler, also fol-
lowed up his Brisbane success, taking
3 for 87.
* * * *
In the Adelaide Sheffield match N. S.
Wales found the South Australians too
consistently godd and took the knock by
109 runs. It was dreary cricket all
through, and attendances reflected the
play. N. S. Wales answered the home
side’s 181 with 149. South Australia
managed 301 in its second try, Ryan
(67) and Waite (77) doing most of it.
N.S.W. reached 224 in its second
innings, Marks topping with a bright 74.
Williams (4-44) was in good bowling
form.
* * * *
“Shackois”: The outfield at the Sydney
Cricket Ground is threatened with in-
vasion by “brown spot.” This pest has
caused a heap of worry on tennis courts
and the like elsewhere. An American
commission has traced its origin to
Japan, but can find no way of getting rid
of it.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Strange that Hammond has
never been able to do any good at Bris-
bane. His highest score in 10 innings
there was 44 —for Chapman’s side in the
first Test, 1928-29. His other Test
scores were 28 in the second innings of
that year’s Test; 20. and 14 in 1932-33,
and 0 and 25 in the late game. Against
Queensland his scores have been 0, 27,
36 and 4.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: When the Australian
golfers were in California the Japanese
golf authorities suggested a tour of
Japan later by an Australian team.
Nippon has now advised that it is unable
to accept an invitation for a team of
professionals to visit Australia which
was forwarded when it was found im-
possible for our men to make the trip.
“Financial burdens” is advanced as the
reason for declining the invitation, but
it is added that any Australian players
visiting Japan to play in the national
open or professional championships in
June or September, 1937, will be wel-
comed with flowers.
* * * *
“Cuts”: Taking a day off from rock-
ing it into the Government N.S.W.
Teachers’ Conference ran a golf tour-
ney at the Lakes (N.S.W.) club. The
“Lost your nerve, Jack ?”
“No-o-o-o-o!”
“Then, what are you shivering for ?”
championship was retained by George
Dennett, a Bonnie Doon A-grader, who
finished with two rounds of 76. A 36-
hole event went to G. M. McMillan,
whose score of 138 was one ahead of A.
Allsopp, runner-up to Dennett in the
title event. Miss M. Orr walked off
with the women’s title, her score of 92,
helped by a 19-handicap allowance, also
placing her first in the handicap event
played concurrently.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: Victorian tennis cham-
pionships ended much as expected. The
only boil-over was the defeat of Miss
Wynne by Mrs. Westacott, of Queens-
land, who went down in the final to Miss
Hartigan. Adrian Quist won the singles
from Turnbull in three straight sets and
with Turnbull downed Bromwich and
Schwartz in the men’s doubles. Mrs.
Hopman and Miss Wynne took the
women’s doubles from Miss Hartigan
and Miss Wilson. The junior singles
and doubles went to Bromwich and
Bromwich and Undo. McGrath and
Crawford did not play, but there should
be something doing when they show up
in the Australian championships in
Sydney.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The tennis public is
as short of memory as any other sort.
Anyone asked what royalties are or
were pronfinent in tennis of late years
would not go past the King of Sweden.
The election of Wing-Commander Sir
Louis Greig to the chairmanship of the
All-England L.T.A. has disclosed the
forgotten fact that he partnered King
George in the doubles at Wimbledon in
1926. It is stated the pair finished down
the course somewhere, so we. will let it
go at that.
» * * *
“Cut Shot”: In spite of the travelling
trouble there is a section of Australian
tennis-players in favor of challenging in
the European zone. The reason given
is that the Americans promise to be a
hot side this year, and that a knock-out
in the first round is quite, likely. On the
other hand, it is claimed that our men
could easily walk through most of the
European sides and get to the zone final
that way. It is a toss-up.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: According to the Yankee
press the Australians will play on grass
courts if they decide to challenge in the,
American zone, as they certainly will.
Germanton club, which entertained them
last year, is spending a lot of money on
reconditioning its courts, though these
were in excellent order for the 1936
clash. Though it will save much travel-
ling the American challenge is a dan-
gerous one. Last time we were lucky
to win.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: The King’s Birthday-
shift has caused yet another revision of
the Rugby Union programme for the
Springbok tour. The first Test match
will now be played at Sydney on June
26, and one will be squeezed in for Bris-
bane on July 10. A third is down for
July 17, the visitors sailing for Maori-
land that same night. Counting two
games against country teams in N.S.W.
and one in Queensland and games
against Victoria, N.S.W. and Queens-
land, there will be nine matches in all
—a pretty decent allowance, considering
M. is the real objective of the ’Boks.
* * * *
“Pit-Pat”: After all life has its com-
pensations. If the Englishmen lick us
at cricket we will have a chance to smack
them on the wrist at ping-pong or table
tennis, as they call it to-day. When the
game came to Australia close on 40
years ago, its addicts were looked on as
fit mates for ludo and snakes-anddadders
experts. I shall never forget the agony
suffered by an old Rugby rep., just re-
turned to Sydney after some years of
absence from Australia. Spotting some
youths in the street wearing maroon hat-
bands, he anxiously inquired if they
were some of a Bananaland Rugby team,
greatly desiring to fraternise with them.
When told they were the Queensland
ping-pong representatives he had to be
assisted by his friends into the old Royal
Hotel, fortunately then near by, and
treated for collapse.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Sydney King's
School played its last official match of
the British tour against Cheltenham, win-
ning 6-0. Frost prevented the team meet-
ing a couple of the formidable Scottish
schools which regularly furnish players
direct to international sides. The record
of the tourists was 12 played, eight won,
two lost and two drawn. Good, con-
sidering that King’s is far from being the
strongest of the Sydney G.P.S. Rugby
combinations. That distinction has been
held for years by St. Joseph’s College,
itself a great provider of internationals.
* * * *
“Splash”: The instructional team of
N. surfers to tour Maoriland this
month is composed of Carrier (S. Nar-
rabeen), Foster (Bronte), Hart (Bondi),
Hodgson (N. Bondi), King (N. Narra-
been), Miller (Cronulla), H. Scott
(Newcastle) and W. Scott (Black Head).
King’s appointment is subject to rati-
fication of his reinstatement as an ama-
teur by the, Amateur Swimming Union.
The team sails for M.L. by the Wan-
ganella on January 29.
* * * *
“Spixe”: Scoring points, Sydney
Uni. won the Dunn Shield for the cham-
pionship of the N.S.W. athletic clubs ;
Western Suburbs had held it. Two more
Shield records went up: Shieles (St.
George) threw the javelin 167 ft., and
Plummer (Police) heaved the 161 b. shot
42ft. 11 in.
* * # 1 *
“Black”: Joe Davis once more proved
too good for Horace Lindrum in the
“Daily Mail” snooker tourney in Lon-
don —by 41 “frames” to 30. Joe won
all five of the series of matches and Lin-
drum tied with Newman with three wins
and two losses. Poor old Inman, like
Poppa in the song, “he gaht nuthin’ at
all.”
* * * *
“Vernier”: A visit from an English
rifle team for the N.S.W. spree in 1938
has been put beyond doubt by the selec-
tion of Commander Swanson, a famous
shot himself and skipper of many R.N.
teams, as captain of the touring team.
It may be that invitations will be sent
to other Dominions, but the inertia of
the Commonwealth Council is holding
matters up. A £7OOO programme has
been arranged for the meeting, and the
committee controlling the corroboree has
already voted £2OOO to the fund.


TWO FAMOUS FIGHTS
“Burns, one round.”
The shortest account of. a cham-
pionship fight that ever reached a news-
paper office, it came over the Pacific
cable on July 5, 1907, and it plunged
a waiting continent in gloom.
Pretty well every Australian news-
paper that shared in the cable service
had prepared columns of type in expec-
tation of quite another message.
For hadn’t Bill Squires, the champion
of Australia, been matched with Tommy
Burns for the championship of the
world, and hadn’t John Wren backed
him for a fortune, and wasn’t the money
as good as in Wren’s pocket?
Who was this Tommy Burns? A
French-Canadian with an unimpressive
record ; a middleweight who had gained
his title by outpointing other middle-
weights ; a champion by grace of the
enormous Jeffries, who had taken a
Patti farewell of the ring. How could
Burns hope to succeed where so many
Australians had failed? Squires would
knock him out in a few rounds and then
go on and knock Jeffries out. That was
really why he had gone to California ;
Burns was just a trifling interruption.
And then came the shattering words:
“Burns, one round.”
The fight hadn’t gone 30 seconds be-
fore Burns was looking back at his
corner and grinning. He had discovered
that Squires had only a rudimentary
knowledge of defence, never having been
taught' to protect himself, as the great
Australian boxers of 15 and 20 years
before had been taught.
When he reached San Francisco he
knew so little about in-fighting that
Eddie Hanlon, a local lightweight, had
to be engaged to teach him ; and, as
John Wren’s representative wrote bit-
terly after the catastrophe, “Bill wanted
to be the teacher.”
A couple of powerful rights on the
jaw (a “glass” jaw American reporters
said it was, but that was overstating the
case) and Squires went down and out.
Thirteen months later they had a
return match in Sydney. It' lasted 13
rounds, but long before the gong sounded
for the thirteenth the crowd had been
forced to realise that the swift knock-out
at San Francisco was no fluke.
The first fight for the heavyweight
championship ever fought in these parts,
Burns v. Squires was followed in De-
cember of that year by Burns v. John-
son ; and the title changed hands.
In London 16 years before, an Aus-
tralian by birth and an Australian by
adoption had engaged in what is still
reckoned by Englishmen the greatest
heavyweight fight of all time. And
(though Americans would not admit it)
it was really for the world title, for
Slavin had beaten the champion of Eng-
land and Jackson was champion of Aus-
tralia, and each had vainly challenged
John L. Sullivan. It has long been ad-
mitted in the U.S.A. that either could
have disposed of the fat and prema-
turely-aged “John L.” in a few rounds.
There is a dramatic quality in boxing
which other sports lack, and the Ring
has had first-class chroniclers in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Sydney “Referee,”
with A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales, Neville
Forder, W. W. Naughton and Jim Donald
on its list, has been particularly well
served.
The Bulletin is indebted to the
editor of the, “Referee” for permission
to republish “Smiler’s” spirited account
of the Jackson-Slavin fight; the descrip-
tion of Johnson v. Burns was written by
its own C. A. Jeffries.
Johnson Becomes Champion.
(BY C. A. JEFFRIES .)
The Sydney Stadium is not a place of
beauty, but filled to the rim with 20,000
people it makes an impressive sight,
even to the man who has no interest in
the booking-office. Immediately the
doors opened at 7 a.m. the early-door
ticket-holders filed in, and by 8.30 the
great enclosure was more than half-full.
The sky was threatening, and in the
dark clouds the augurs read an omen
of disaster, for that huge crowd was
aggressively white in its sympathy. It
had not come to see a fight so much
as to witness a black aspirant for the
championship of the world beaten to his
knees and counted out; and though the
augurs were persistent they were voted
down.
Johnson suddenly appeared in the pas-
sage, and climbing into the ring went
to his corner. There was a faint cheer,
and the colored giant bowed again and
again. He didn’t get much homage, but
made a lot of what he did get.
Burns appeared, and was nearly blown
out of the Stadium by the crash of ap-
plause that thundered from 20,000
throats, for by this time there was not
a vacant seat in the great enclosure.
Johnson was not depressed by the
tremendous ovation his rival received.
Expectorating with unerring accuracy
between the heads of one of his seconds
and a pressman on to a vacant space
about the size of a handkerchief, he
leaned over the ropes and inquired of a
menial had he got “that bet on.” The
varlet had, and Johnson seemed relieved.
Then he glanced at the opposite
corner, and noticed that the man who
was giving him the chance of his life
and over two stone in weight was wear-
ing elastic bands upon his elbows. He
demanded that they should be removed.
Burns refused. Johnson appealed to
the referee, but the Mclntosh said there
was nothing in the rules against bands,
and the agreement had not specified that
they should not be worn. Therefore he
declined to order Burns to remove them.
“All right,” said Johnson, “I’ll sit here
till *he takes ’em off. They must be
there to do him some good, and if he
don’t take ’em off there’ll be no fight.”
Westmacott announced to the crowd
that Johnson refused to fight till Burns
removed the bandages, and a storm of
howls and hoots ripped the air. Through
the bass roar came shrill voices adjuring
Burns not to give way to the “black
cow” and other animals. Mclntosh
leaned against the ropes and waited.
Larry Foley remonstrated with Johnson,
BURNS SHAPES UP TO JOHNSON.
who sat grinning at the rage of the
crowd. A man with imagination would
have been impressed—he wasn’t, which
shows the occasional advantage of not
having an imagination.
Burns ended what would have soon be-
come an ugly business by suddenly rising
and throwing off the thin elastic bandages
amidst thunders of applause. Then the
official fluter announced that if the police
stopped the contest the Mclntosh would
immediately declare the winner, and that
the cheques would be paid over in the
ring immediately after the scrap. Mc-
Intosh dragged the hands of the two
men together, made a few inaudible re-
marks, and posed them for the picture.
Then they went to their corners.
As they came together people got their
first chance to realise the great disparity
between the men. Johnson’s magnificent
body and ophidian head and face fairly
towered over Burns, who seemed a mere
boy in his teens beside him. As Johnson
went in he smiled and paused. “Aal
right, Tahmmy!” he laughed, shooting
out his spar-like left for Burns’s ribs.
Quick as lightning Burns’s right fell on
his biceps and took the weight out of
the blow, while his left landed in the
black man’s bingey. As he swung round
to draw out they clinched, broke loose,
and, like a flash, Johnson, with a tre-
mendous right upward swing, caught
Burns fair under the chin, lifted him oft'
his feet and sent him to the floor in a
sitting posture.
This was the really decisive blow of
the fight, for, although Burns was not
knocked out, he was obviously dazed—
so dazed that he lost his ringcraft, his
hitting power and his speed. Springing
up, he went for Johnson like a tiger. But
it was blind, dazed fury, which Johnson
met with straight lefts and right crosses,
till Burns at last succeeded in clinching.
Then Johnson uppercut him again and
again. Burns tried for uppercuts and
belly rips, but Johnson had got that far-
famed arm-lock on him, and Burns’s
blows had no strength. Then Johnson
would push him off and smash him on
the jaw as he did so.
At the gong Burns went to his corner
in a very bad way, and his attendants
rubbed him with champagne.
Johnson sat cool and unruffled, laugh-
ing and talking. “Water,” he roared
with a grin, and taking a mouthful that
would have been a decent drink for an
elephant, he gargled his throat, ejected
the fluid where a fair quantity splashed
over the furious pressmen, and sat up to
have a look at the crowd. He had reason
to be pleased with himself. Not only
had he demonstrated that Burns’s patent
defence was useless against him, but that
he was so much stronger that he could
hold the champion helpless till he was
ready to smite. In his corner Burns’s
attendant was combing his hair, and up
aloft the cinematograph man went on
turning his handle mechanically with an
expression of blank indifference, except
when he turned his face towards the grey
cloud-covered sky. The crowd sat silent,
wondering what the second round would
be like.
Johnson cake-walked to meet Burns,
who came in determinedly and landed a
few blows on the black ophidian face.
Excepting that Burns seemed to have re-
covered some of his speed and showed
wonderful skill at evading some right
swings, crosses and other messengers of
sudden death, the second round was not
much better than the first. The audi-
ence sighed as it realised that Burns and
Johnson were not in the same class.
Someone remarked that Charlie Mitchell
was up against greater odds in weight
and size when he drew with John L.
Sullivan ; but an aged fighter sadly shook
his hair and remarked that Mitchell
didn’t lead for the big man’s head.
Burns got into clinches again, and the
towering black held him helpless. He
would rise on his toes and bring his right
down with an awful smash on Burns’s
kidneys, then push him off and uppercut
him on the jaw as he did so. The re-
feree had a busy time parting them ; and
once Johnson held Burns with his left
and hit him with his right, receiving a
warning for his pains.
In the clinches Burns’s characteristic
attitude was one of absolute help.;
lessness, Johnson defending his stom-
ach and avoiding uppercuts with
the greatest of ease. A more one-sided
struggle it would be impossible to im-
agine. Burns was plucky as a lion, but
the black man was as strong as a loco-
motive.
The only bright feature of the display
was the heroism with which Burns took
his smashing, and gamely came again
and again. His face was in a very bad
way. His mouth was bleeding, his cheek
beginning to swell, and his eyes were
growing puffy. He seemed to realise his
inability to make an impression on John-
son, who occasionally stood quite still,
with his hands down, talking and jeering
at him, while Burns skirled round look-
ing for an opening that never came.
The black man stood like a tower and
let Burns do the fighting.
It was not until the fourth round that
Burns sufficiently recovered from that
first knock-down punch to make a really
dangerous attack. Then he caught John-
son over Jhe heart with a heavy left, and,
hauling off, landed him a weak right on
the jaw. Johnson was quieter for the rest
of that round, but it was his round all
the same.
Then commenced a most beastly exhi-
bition of rubbing it into a man who was
fighting a game battle but was altogether
overmatched. The colored mass was quite
unruffled, and determined to impress the
fact on this crowd of white trash whose
champion he was beating. Looking
down at a photographer who was snap-
ping between the ropes, he remarked as
he went by: “Did you get that? Any-
how, I’ll give you a good picture” ; and
with that he suddenly sprang in on
Burns, smote him in the stomach with
the left, smashed him on the jaw with


the right, and hurled him against the
ropes.
Frequently Johnson would hold Burns
helpless against him whilst he exchanged
gibes with the crowd, grinning as he did
so, and then twist Burns into the position
he wanted and smite. “Come on, leedle
Tahmmy,” he laughed in the ninth ;
“come right here where I want you!”
and he swung the struggling white into
the Johnsonian corner, where Burns
broke loose and feebly uppercut.
“No good, Tahmmy!” guyed Johnson ;
“I’ll teach you! ” and he threw Burns off
and uppercut him twice with his right and
bashed him on the side of the head with
the left. Again, when Mclntosh ordered
Burns to break, the white man was too
dazed to hear, and feebly jabbed his
opponent in the stomach. “Let go
break, Tommy!” roared Mclntosh. “He
can’t hurt, he can’t hurt!” sniggered
Johnson, bashing Burns over the kid-
neys. On another occasion, when
Burns’s seconds howled to him, “Get
away from him, Tommy ; get away from
him!” he drew the white man in close
to him, and, turning to the corner, re-
marked with a drawl, “I thought
Tahmmy was an in-fighter.”
In the tenth round Burns made a fine
rally. Feinting with his left, he sud-
denly hurled in a right for Johnson’s jaw
with all his weight behind it. Johnson tried
to meet it with his left, missed, but ducked
in time to let the white man’s blow go
over his necki As their bodies crashed
together Johnson gurgled: “Ah, that’s
what I like,” and he smashed Burns
heavily in the ribs with his right.
After 11 rounds Burns was in a hor-
rible plight. His face was all puffed out
on one side, his jaw hung down as
though it were broken, and the blood
oozed from his battered mouth. Out-
generalled, over-reached, over-matched
in strength, insulted and treated like a
helpless mouse by a great black cat,
he came up heroically to take his punish-
ment. He would fight to the bitter end,
and all that a man could do in the face
of such overwhelming odds and in the
midst of utter disaster Noah Brusso did.
All the time he continued to attack,
to lead, to try and force the fight. It was
magnificent, but it wasn’t pugilism, and
all against the tactics laid down in his
own book. Every time the sinking cham-
pion went to his corner his attendant
combed his hair. He might lose his
championship, the supremacy of the
white race might go to the devil, Burns
himself might be slowly battered to
pieces or suddenly killed outright, but at
least he should die with his hair properly
parted. Gradually the strain began to
tell on that attendant, and he did his
work badly, so that the exhausted, half-
fainting man came into the ring with his
hair imperfectly parted and badly
arranged.
The black conqueror was beginning to
wonder if he hadn’t played too long.
He rushed in, and at last seemed
to be making a genuine effort to end it.
But Burns, marvellous to relate, seemed
to be slowly recovering his speed, and
evaded wonderfully. If he had been
content to evade, it would have been
better, if not well; but he continued to
lead and meet rush with rush, to clinch
and in-fight, in all of which proceedings
he got the worst of it, till he became
quite helpless and clung to the ropes.
That left side of his face puffed out
further, and the sag in his mouth firmly
convinced people that the jaw was
broken. Johnson also apparently thought
so, and in accordance with the charming
spirit he had shown right through the
fight, aimed for it every time, as he fol-
lowed Burns up with sudden ferocious
rushes.
It was in one of these rushes that John-
son, while Burns clung to the ropes,
struck the champion twice on the appar-
ently injured spot and knocked him
down with such force that he rolled over
twice. Mclntosh bounded across the
ring, and, bending down over him, com-
menced to count. Johnson, who all
through, although ungenerous and ob-
jectionable in his attitude towards his
opponent, fought with scrupulous regard
for the rules, retired to his corner, and
with his hands resting on his hips
watched complacently. He thought it
was a knockout.
As Mclntosh counted he waved time
with his right hand, forefinger extended,
just as Nathan does. “One, two” —right
on to eight, when Burns scrambled up
and staggered towards Johnson. John-
son bounded from his corner like a
panther.
“Finish him, Jack!” yelled his second
as Johnson swept down like a cyclone
on the staggering, almost helpless, man,
and with a left smash on the forehead
knocked him against the ropes.
He was just swinging his right for that
battered, swollen cheek again when the
Superintendent of Police soared up the
ropes and waved his crop aloft.
“Stop, Johnson!” bellowed Mclntosh
in a voice fit to wake the dead, and John-
son’s arm swung back as the attendants
swarmed into the ring. Johnson hurried
to the centre, and Mclntosh, pointing to
him, roared, “I declare Johnson winner
on points!”
As Mclntosh’s voice rebounded from
the walls of the Stadium that mighty
concourse remained silent. Johnson
waved his hands to the crowd that did
not cheer him. A few straggling voices
were raised, but they were mere flecks
of sound in an ocean of silence. The
black man had fought a scrupulously
fair fight, and won on points from start
to finish. To the writer it seemed that
he could have knocked Burns out any
time after the seventh round.
But the victory, fairly won as it was,
was wholly unpopular. That crowd was
white to the core. It had given the brown
man a fair deal, and didn’t feel called
upon to do more. It put its hat on and
streamed out. In 12 minutes from the
paying over of the cheques the stadium
was empty.
How Jackson Beat Slavin.
(By “Smiler” Hales in the “Referee,'
May 31, 1892.)
At last the greatest heavyweight fisti.
contest of modern times has become a
matter of history.
Whilst travelling through America on
my way to the scene of action, I heard
the chances of the men discussed in
every city that I had the pleasure of visit-
ing, and I doubt if ever a boxing con-
test excited such widespread interest in
the States before. Jackson’s splendid
science and manly, modest conduct upon
all occasions had rendered him a pecu-
liar favorite with a very large circle of
the boxing and general sport-loving fra-
ternity. Slavin also had hosts of fol-
lowers, who looked upon him as a man
whom few men living could whip.
In San Francisco, the idea was preva-
lent that Jackson would certainly win if
he was fit and well on the night of the
battle. Sam Fitzpatrick, Jackson’s old
trainer, was very confident that the negro
would down the white man, if in good
condition. Mose Gunst, a good judge
and a heavy bettor on things fistic, tipped
Jackson as a sure thing after seeing
PETER JACKSON.
Slavin perform. President Fulda, of the
C.A.C., reckoned Jackson almost invin-
cible —in fact, all the cognoscenti of the
Pacific Slope had their dollars on the
great colored pugilist, for whom they
had a feeling almost amounting to affec-
tion.
At Portland, Oregon, Jackson was also
the favorite, Jack Dempsey being especi-
ally sweet upon him and his chances.
At Chicago, the feeling was slightly in
favor of Jackson, though it was esti-
mated he would have a terribly tough
fight When he met his hostile country-
man. Away east, at Boston, Slavin was
a decided favorite, the “bean-eaters”
looking upon it as a good thing for the
white man.
At New York the sports felt that it
was all over bar shouting, and laid 6
to 4 as freely as they could plank it
down upon the Maitland boy. A lump
of money must have been dropped there.
A 1 Smith, one of the greatest gamblers
on earth, had 10,000 dollars of his own
to lay on Slavin at 6 to 4.
But the craze for Slavin was in
London. In the English metropolis they
laid 2 to 1 freely, and there was any
amount of money ready to say that
Slavin would win in three rounds.
“Parson” Davies took some of that
money, 1 know. Strange though it may
seem in the face of the betting, the. de-
sire was strongly manifested that Jack-
son should win, and I am certain 80 per
cent, of those who were present at the
mill were Jackson supporters at heart,
though the money was on the other man.
This had nothing to do with the result
of the fight, however, for each man re-
ceived the fairest of possible fair play
all the journey.
Jackson trained himself at Brighton.
He had a man to rub him down, but he
looked after himself. He fell out with
Con Riordan, who left America with him
to act as his trainer, and the pair parted
in London.
Slavin trained at a nice place on the
Essex coast, called Dovercourt, a very
fine place to get into trim. He had his
brother Jack with him all the time. When
he went into the ring, he was 13st. 51b.
and was fit to fight for all Australia. He
was just perfect in condition, and does
not claim that he was not well. He
FRANK (“PADDY”) SLAVIN.
looked remarkably fit and he fought
like it also. Jackson gave his weight at
13st. 101 b., but he looked fully 14st. 101 b.
At the National Sporting Club on the
night of Monday, May 30, there was a
great gathering, many noblemen and
leading citizens being present; but, as
I had to promise not to divulge the
names of those present, I cannot enu-
merate them.
Tom Williams and Tom Burrows
boxed four rounds in fair style. This
created quite a furore, though in Aus-
tralia it would have been looked upon as
a very ordinary performance indeed.
Then came a couple of light-heavyweights,
named White and Bowman. These men
were both ex-heavyweight champion
amateurs at one time of England, and a
couple of bigger old ladies I doubt if one
could find. Jack Valentine, George
Seale or Tom Partridge could whip a
sheep-paddock full of them in one night.
It was a decided relief when they did the
disappearing trick.
Slavin came quietly along the ropes
and slipped into the ring. He was
attended by his brother Jack, Tom Wil-
liams and Tom Burrows. He got a
poor reception. Slavin wore dark-blue
tights and blue stockings. Jackson did
not cause any delay. He was escorted
by “Parson” Davies, Tom Fellowes and
Choynski, Jim Hall having declined to
act, as he was a personal friend of
Slavin’s.
As the men obeyed the mandate
“shake hands,” it caused a hum of sur-
prise to go round the crowded theatre,
for Slavin, who, when alone, looks a
big, powerful man, seemed a mere strip-
ling alongside the gigantic negro, Mr.
Dunning, the London “Sportsman”
editor, who sat next to me, remarking,
“Why, Jackson’s fully a stone and over
the heaviest man,” and he certainly
looked it.
Round 1. —It was exactly 11.15 as the
pair put' up their hands, Jackson mak-
ing the most of his height by standing
with his feet close together, whilst Slavin
carried his legs far apart in a long, firm
stride. Jackson seemed anxious ; Slavin
very confident and eager for the fray.
They eyed each other for a second or
so, and then Slavin seemed to gather
himself together for a spring. Jackson
divined the intention, and, before. Slavin
could reach him, shot out his long left
arm, the glove landing flush on the
mouth.
A dandy hit, but the one that fol-
lowed was even better, for Jackson sent
the right across even thus early for the
king hit, and got home on the side of
the forehead close up to the left temple,
shaking Slavin up, and raising a big
lump. But Slavin was there for business,
for he darted in under Peter’s long left
arm and gave the negro a terrific punch
full in the belly that made Jackson emit
a grunt and doubled him up for a
second. He recovered at once, and gave
the white man a smashing right full on
the jaw that nearly upset him.
No time was now wasted by either
combatant; they got within range and a
deadly rally followed, Jackson using his
right hand as he has never before been
known to use it. So fiercely did they
battle that few would have been sur-
prised if the mill had ended then and
there. Jackson had a lump the best of
the fighting, until just before corners rang
out, when Slavin got home with the right
full on the neck.
Round 2. —The men did not fool for
the tenth part of a second. Slavin darted
in and landed his left flush on the
mouth ; Jackson sent his right crash in
on the cheekbone close up under the
left eye, almost causing an optical eclipse.
This roused the devil in them both and,
getting at close quarters, they fought like
a pair of enraged stallions, Slavin thump-
ing in the body, Jackson going solidly
for the head and neck. Jackson’s right-
handed work was a revelation to all who
saw it.
Now the men stood apart and fought
at long range. The hitting was brilliant
on both sides, Slavin displaying an
amount of science that surprised his most
ardent admirers. A moment or so of
careful work followed; then Slavin,
feinting, got ahead of Jackson by draw-
ing his long left. Then quick as a flash
he sent his heavy right on to the ear. A
moment later and he did the trick once
more. Jackson jumped at him savagely
and the pair fought toe to toe until time
rang out, both going to their corners
greatly troubled. Now neither looked a
thing of beauty, both bleeding freely. It
had been a red-hot round.
Round 3. —This round was one in
which Slavin must have learned the
weight of Jackson’s left hand to an
ounce, for it was seldom off his carcass
for five seconds at a stretch. Slavin did
not remain as a sleeping partner in that
concern. Now and again he got in some
terrific work on the body, but Jackson
avoided most of that sort by his tiger-
like back spring. If Slavin’s most in-
veterate enemy had seen him during that
three minutes, I think he would have
pitied and admired him. Jackson just
about closed his left eye and put a bulge
on the side of his head like a broken
belfry in a ruined church tower.
Fair on the chin Slavin got it, and he
staggered to the ropes. Then his ever-
active foe gave him such a deal as sel-
dom falls to the lot of publicans or sin-
ners. A cabhorse would have cut from
some of the punches that fell in such
generous profusion all over Slavin’s
hardy frame, but he did not even flinch.
Just before the end of the round it
really looked as if Slavin would go out
—anything less like a scrap-iron monu-
ment would have been sent home on a
shutter ; but he made a magnificent effort.
Pulling himself together, he gave Peter
one on the jaw that made the whole face
blanch, and his very knees rocked.
Round 4. —Jackson led with a business-
like left. Slavin ducked neatly and swung
his left fair into Peter’s nose, bringing
the blood in a stream. Then Slavin got
Peter going, and he did not spare him ;
bang, bang on head and ribs with both
hands. Once he forced the sable warrior
on to the ropes. All present held their
very breath, for it looked as if Jackson’s
Waterloo had arrived as Slavin forced
his head back with his left glove and
swung his right for the point. Jackson
managed to duck and got out of the
tightest corner he was ever in in all his
life. Slavin got mad 'and rushed, and
Peter hit him on the jaw with force
enough to make a calf cry; then he
banged Paddy in the belly. As they
went to their corners it was anybody’s
fight.
Round 5. —During the whole of the
earlier part of this round Peter played
a game of long shots and seemed to enjoy
it, but Paddy did not, for his head and
belly got thumped until he must have
felt like a man possessed of a devil.
Again and again he let go fiercely at
Jackson’s jaw, but could not get there.
Slavin took his punishment like a lion
until it came to his turn to deal, and
then he made Jackson’s ribs crack like
a drum. But the great negro proved him-
self as game as he is clever, and not
once did he flinch, though more than
once he must have thought his very socks
were coming up into his mouth, so hard
did Slavin land on his body. They were
fighting like devils when corners came.
Round 6. —Few men have ever seen
two big men fight as fiercely and as fast
{Continued on page 42.)


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
‘‘Rangle River.”
HEROIC STOCKRIDER, Victor Jory
CATTLEMAN’S DAUGHTER,
Margaret Dare
ENGLISH CHAPPIE .. Robert Coote
A Zane Grey film with more or less of
an Australian setting. The lean bronzed
cowboy, his inept and senile employer,
the said employer’s lovely daughter, the
villainous neighboring rancher, and the
vacuous-seeming chappie who has a
monopoly of the cast’s intelligence have
done service in a long vista of Mr. Grey’s
immortal romances, stretching backward
through the years, and the alteration of
their domicile from Arizona to N. S.
Wales has changed them but little, save
that they have given up toting six-
shooters and do their fighting with fists
and stockwhips.
It appears that in the part of Aus-
tralia where the events of this remark-
able yarn were supposed to happen there
were but two cattle-ranches. The
owner of one of these got a contract to
supply the local freezing-works, and his
hated rival immediately dammed the
local river, leaving his enemy’s cows to
expire of thirst. The sudden drying-up
of the river seems to have aroused no
Victor lory in “Rangle River,” at Sydney
Plaza.
suspicions. It is not until a ’plane is
chartered by a visiting Englishman, an
R.A.F. officer, that the dam is dis-
covered. Knowing that the game is up
the villain dynamites the dam, intending
that the flood shall sweep away his rival’s
herds. But the heroic stockrider is every-
where at once —at the ranch, getting the
cattle shifted to the higher levels, and a
few seconds later at the villain’s abode,
belting billy-ho out of him with a stock-
whip. The English johnny, supposed to
have been drowned, turns up smiling just
as the heroic stockrider and his boss’s
daughter are about to fade out in a pre-
matrimonial clinch.
Jory makes the best showing of his
career, shining against the rest of a
mostly amateurish cast like a jewel in a
toad’s head. Coote, always enjoyable,
has a congenial role, and scores the rest
of the honors. Action drags and is fre-
quently irritatingly irrelevant. Mr.
Grey’s touch is surer when his foot is on
his native heath. At Sydney Plaza.
“Adventure in Manhattan.”
SUPERHUMAN CRIME
REPORTER Joel McCrea
SUPERHUMAN CRIMINAL,
Reginald Owen
GOIL Jean Arthur
TEMPERAMENTAL EDITOR,
Thomas Mitchell
Quick tempo, plenty of humor, a good
sprinkling of anti-climaxes, and smooth,
competent acting by all hands make this
fantasia first-class entertainment. It reeks
with improbabilities and impossibilities,
but these are not apparent at first sight,
and before the audience has time to
ponder over them the thin ice of the
logic has been skated over.
Owen is at home as a millionaire art-
connoisseur turned crook, McCrea gives
a humorous study of an egotistical but
breezy criminologist, Miss Arthur puts
over a big bluff with her customary sang-
froid and Mitchell’s idea of an editor
has at least the virtue of originality. At
Sydney Plaza.
“Lady, Be Careful.”
GOBS Lew Ayres, Buster
Crabbe, Benny Baker
HONKYTONK GOIL .. Mary Carlisle
Three authors collaborated in this
screen play, which is based on a stage
script by two other writers, who prob-
ably took it from a novel by two others.
This mountain of literary talent has pro-
duced a very small mouse. Some semi-
idiotic gobs on a U.S.A. battleship visit-
ing Panama make bets that one of their
number (a hobbledehoy represented by
Lew Ayres) will or will not make a hit
with a honkytonk goil so noted for her
virtue that she has been named “Stone-
wall Jackson” (Mary Carlisle). The sym-
bol of his triumph is to be possession
of the blue ribbon inscribed “Miss
Panama” which this fastidious young
woman won in a beauty contest. The
hobbledehoy’s poppa owns an automo-
bile factory in Toledo, 0., to which he
proposes to return —why he’s in the navy
at all isn’t explained—and the girl ac-
cepts his offer of marriage after a certain
amount of maidenly hesitation. The
ribbon goes with acceptance. That’s all
there is to it. This is the feeblest fillum
of 1936, but not the hardest to bear —
neither the gobs nor the honkytonk
charmers croon. At Sydney Civic.
“The Texas Rangers.”
BANDITS TURNED RANGERS,
Fred Mac Murray; Jack Oakie
UNREPENTANT BANDIT,
Lloyd Nolan
BOSS RANGER Edward Ellis
GOIL Jean Parker
KID Bennie Bartlett
The Lone Star State must have been
a pretty lively place in pioneering days,
and this unashamedly Deadwooddicky
production moves at a gallop. It is
about a couple of harum-scarum scamps
who, finding the sticking-up of stage
coaches is being seriously interfered with
by the Rangers, join the Rangers. Their
bosom pal decides to stay on the wrong
side of the law. The kid (young Bart-
lett provides the screen with a new and
most delectable type of boy) comes into
the yarn when Mac Murray and Oakie,
after driving off Injuns whooping round
a settler’s farm, find Pa and Ma mur-
dered. But the worst doesn’t happen.
They don’t adopt the boy.
There’s a love affair between Mac-
Murray and Jean Parker that’s unlike
any other on the screen. Elaborate
battles with Injuns are staged; the sav-
ages send huge boulders crashing down
on a knot of Ranger survivors. A cold-
blooded assassination, a murder trial
and a duel to the death between Mac-
Murray and Nolan are other features of
a picture that should send the Saturday-
afternoon kids wild with excitement.
Despite some impossibly heroic
speeches by Ted Ellis the affair is, on
Robert Coote in “Rangle River.”
the whole, well acted. It has humor,
and its melodramatic moments are
atoned for by this leaven. At Sydney
Cameo.
“Wives Never Know.”
MODEL HUSBAND .. Charlie Ruggles
DOTING WIFE Mary Boland
AUTHOR.. Adolphe Menjou
ACTRESS Vivienne Osborne
Charles and Mary are happy though
married when into their bower stalks
Adolphe, author of a best-seller entitled
Marriage —The Living Death. Adolphe,
appalled at the picture of connubial bliss
which meets his eye, informs Charles that
he will never be really happy until he has
made Mary jealous, and Mary that she
will never attain to a similar state until
she has had the opportunity 6f forgiving
Charles for straying. He brings about a
meeting between Charles and Vivienne
Osborne, a “torch” actress. Miss
Osborne has a crush on Adolphe and
thinks that she will land him by flirting
with Charles. Plans go astray and the
four are soon immersed in a sea of com-
plications. Eventually Charles extricates
himself by tricking Adolphe into mar-
riage with the actress. Action is rapid
and there is a steady sequence of comic
situations, mostly of a standardised sort.
The principals fill their roles briskly and
competently, but without adding to their
reputations. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“The Devil Is a Sissy.”
ROUGH LITTLE BOYS,
Tackie Cooper and Mickey Rooney
REFINED LITTLE BOY,
Freddie Bartholomew
REFINED LITTLE BOY’S PAPA.
lan Hunter
When Wirth’s Circus, a great many
years ago, gave performances in three
rings at once audiences soon found that
Walter Huston in “Dodsworth.”
they got only about a third as much en-
tertainment out of the triple display as
they did out of the old-fashioned show.
A somewhat similar principle seems to
operate when three boy stars are crowded
into one screen play. In the instance
under review the play is a poor one.
The rough little boys are thieves,
juvenile gangsters, but to fit in with a
general veneer of morality their thieving
is for the laudable purpose of buying a
tombstone for Mickey’s father, who is
to be electrocuted at Sing Sing. There
are frequent interviews with a children’s
court magistrate in which a great deal
of uplifting advice is given, but the pro-
ceedings seem to drift rather than
march. The contrast of the Bowery
idiom of the tough youngsters and the
Eton English of Master Bartholomew is
the most interesting feature of the fan-
tasia, and it' is not sufficient to carry the
affair over the top. At Sydney Mayfair.
“Trailin' West.”
BRAVE LOOTNENT .... Dick Foran
HIS INSPIRATION Paula Stone
CO-VILLAINS,
Gordon Elliott and Addison Richards
PRESIDENT LINCOLN, Robert Barrat
Set in the period of the Union-Con-
federate struggle, this melodramatic wild-
wester has to do with an upright fear-
less army “loot.” who is commissioned
by President Lincoln to stop an out-
break of guerrilla warfare. Since he is
apparently indestructible, it is a simple
matter for him to run the gauntlet of
the bad white men who are urging the
Injuns to rise. He also has to struggle
against the boneheadedness of the garri-
son colonel, but what is that to a robust
hero? With the vision of his loved one
ever before his eyes, the noble fellow
plunges with his horse over precipitous
cliffs, dodges hails of bullets and other-
wise pokes out a jeering tongue at im-
potent Fate, until turpitude stops a final
uppercut and the fleeting smile on Old
Abe’s granite-like features proclaims ac-
knowledgment of a jahb well done. But
not before there occurs the usual battle
between whites and reds, which is only
settled when reinforcements (the gal-
lant loot, rides madly to bring them)
arrive at the gallop in the nick of time.
The episode is guaranteed to bring lusty
cheers from the juveniles.
Dick Foran gets a couple of songs off
his chest in between all-in sfoushes and
hair-breadth escapes and generally gives
Box Office Successes of 1936.
According to the records of Sydney exhibitors the most successful talkies
screened during 1936, based on paid attendances at the theatre of first
release up to 22 /121’36, were “Show Boat” ( Liberty) 273,060 not out,
“Top Hat” (State) 219,000, “Curly Top” (Regent) 170,154, “San Francisco”
(St. James) 165,000, “Mutiny on the Bounty” (St. James) 153,000, “Under
Two Flags” (State) 128,000, “Tale of Two Cities” (St. James) 125,000,
“The Ghost Goes West” (State) 124,000, “The Great Ziegfeld” (St. James)
120,000, “Follow the Fleet” (State) J 120,000, “Anthony Adverse” (State)
109,000, “Magnificent Obsession” (Regent) 103,802.
The figures are quoted for what they are worth, but they would be more
instructive were they fortified by details as to the seating capacity of the
theatre and the length of the run. The proud pre-eminence of “Show
Boat,” for instance, depends on the fortuitous circumstance that it went
to a house which as a matter of policy changes its programme only two or
three times a year. The fact that it manages to secure such long runs is,
of course, a tribute to its skill in selecting films that appeal to the popular
taste, but its records of attendances are not of much value in comparison
with those of other houses, all of which make changes on an average
every fortnight. It will be noted that in only one case —“Curly Top”—is
the success achieved directly attributable to the popularity of a single star.
The omission from the list of one of the finest (and apparently most
popular) films of the year, “Romeo and Juliet,” is explained by the fact
that it came very late, and its run is not yet concluded.


Patent.
PEACH PITTER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
15857/24 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
19 3 7
THE NEW YEAR “ADDS” TO YOUR SECURITY
When you buy
y o ßjEcumrvr
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
you obtain, for as little as £25, an interest in 20 Australian
Companies, in one transaction.
1
9
3
Bank
Commercial Undertakings
Base Metal Producers
7 Manufacturing Enterprises
20 of Australia’s strongest and soundest Companies.
Full Details and Booklet from: Any Stockbroker, or
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Tel.: 85294. 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
NEW!
A Roll Built into the Seat.
5*
THE
"BOLGA"
POLEY
SADDLE
£9/7/6
(BARE)
£lO/10/-
(MOUNTED)
This is one of
our famous “Tumba” de-
signs and features a roll
built into the seat. The
tree is well plated, and
has a solid gullet plate and free stirrup bars.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
Write for 100-page saddlery catalog.
WALTHER*. STEVENSON ltd
595 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
WEMANONTHELMD
SHOULD MAD mEB/Gftl/ML&Crm
EYE/tr fYEE/f/M
:THE AUSTRALASIAN
ONfM£~AILSTAT£S~P£ICE 6?
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
a virile performance. Paula Stone is
just fair as the girl who makes his task
easy. Gordon Elliott and Addison
Richards give modern versions ot two
shifty-eyed bad men who chew their
moustaches and walk sideways. Robert
Barrat gives a recognisable portrait ot
Lincoln. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Sea Spotters.”
BOATSWAIN 808 John Wayne
KIDNAPPED GIRL Nan Grey,
SEAL POACHER Russel Hicks
PATROL COMMANDER,
William Bakewell
Capable acting and bright handling
make this sea drama of the U.S. coast-
guard service quite attractive. Action
is brisk and the story feasible.
The leader of a sealskin-running con-
cern adds kidnapping to his other
crimes when he takes Connie, a night-
club entertainer and prospective bride
of temporary-Commander Bob Randall,
on his yacht, she having accidentally
overheard his nefarious schemes. Action
moves to Alaskan waters, but in the
meantime Bob has been superseded in
command by the son of the coastguard
chief. There’s a little by-play to show
off Bob’s nautical superiority, and the
new commander, who hates the sea, is
transferred to the Air Corps at his own
request, and no hard feelings. Later, the
two men co-operate in stoushing the
smugglers, the girl is rescued unharmed,
and, promotion for Bob being in the.
natural order of things, a fine-weather
course is set straight for the altar.
John Wayne has a manly role and
plays it for all he is worth. Nan Grey
hasn’t very much to do but be orna-
mental, an easy task for her. Russell
Hicks gives a sound portrayal, but Wil-
liam Bakewell doesn’t do justice to his
role. George Irving as the coastguard
chief does a neat piece of character
acting. At Sydney Capitol.
SOME FIRST NIGHTS.
The Russian Ballet’s Sydney season
commenced on Saturday night with “Les
Sylphides,” thus conforming to an
apparently fixed tradition. Helene
Kirsova, in waltz and mazurka, demon-
strates that her high reputation as a
ballerina is thoroughly merited. A fairy
lightness of foot and impeccable balance
are her great assets, and to the able
“lifting” of Igor Yousskevitch she gives
the impression of floating through the
air. Nina Golovina and Nathalie Bra-
nitzka are two graceful exponents, and
the corps de ballet gives a sterling per-
formance, each one a premiere danseuse
yet all moving in perfect harmony. This
fine ballet rises above the disabilities of
a flat, dead scene and indifferent lighting.
In striking contrast to the languorous
gentleness of “Les Sylphides” came
Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Scheherazade,” a
fierce wave of Orientalism. Also to
Fokine’s choreography, this drama, alive
with passion, moves swiftly to its tragic
denouement in a whirl of movement.
The wordless story tells itself in as stark
a realism as was ever patterned into a
ballet. Sensuality is the keynote, and it
is played upon magnificently. Leon
Bakst’s lavish Eastern setting combines
with the barbaric splendor of the music.
The dominant figure is Leon Woizi-
kowsky, who as the sultana’s favorite
slave joins his negro fellows in the wild
dance with the absent sultan’s wives and
concubines that leads to all their deaths.
Seemingly muscled with steel springs, he
gives the famous leap to the cushion in
the grand manner, and-in the death scene
brilliantly captures the effect of the
body’s agonised twitching. Nina Rai-
evska as the Chief Unfaithful brings
beauty and fine characterisation to the
role. Thadee Slavinsky adds a quaint
humor as the eunuch. This ballet should
prove one of the most popular in the
co.’s repertoire.
Further contrast was provided with the
purely classical “Aurora’s Wedding”
(Tschaikowsky-Petipa). In contradistinc-
tion to “Les Sylphides,” the ballet is used
as an unobtrusive background for the
principals. The dances are light and
mostly gay, with ample opportunities for
the seven male partners to show their lift
and elevation. The range is from the
early French Louis period to the
Russian “Kosatchka,” with the “Blue
Bird,” danced by Helene Kirsova and
Roland Guerard, outstanding. The pas
de deux brings the co.’s co-leading
ballerina, Valentia Blinova, to the stage.
Her technique is excellent. There is no
drag in this ballet, and the total effect is
thoroughly satisfying.
Ivan Clayton conducts “Les Sylphides”
and Jascha Horenstein the other ballets,
as well as Schubert’s “Rosamunde”
overture, which preludes the programme.
4 1 4*
Laughs, twinkling legs and miles of
scenery and song make a happy holiday
show of “Wild Violets,” the J. C. Wil-
liamson production that packed His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, on its Boxing
Day opening. By a revolving stage 14
colorful scenes are whisked into two
acts, and a moving forest with boys and
girls dancing and singing through the
trees is one effect Melbourne will
remember.
Students at a boys’ school and a girls’
school in the same Switzerland village
find innumerable openings for falling in
love and fooling happily in other ways.
The matter-of-fact romance of a 1932
innkeeper’s daughter and a young Eng-
lishmen whose objecting father was once
a student there serves as a prologue to
the father’s youthful frolics which the
show switches back and follows until his
elopement with girl-student Mary —an
example that suits the 1932 couple.
Lloyd Lamble, as Paul Hoffman, the
stern father, and the dashing youth the
old boy was, has Ksn Tuckfield and
Dick Bentley to complete the students’
trio. With vivacious Diana Du Cane,
Lois Green and Isobel Cue, three roguish
girls from the neighboring school, they
do a lot of work well. Their sextette,
“I Sort of Knew,” is one of the high-
lights.
Marie Le Varre’s delightful fooling as
August, first a maid at the girls’ school
and then mistress of the inn, is enough
to make “Wild Violets” memorable. Her
partner, Hans Katzen, the innkeeper, is
a better Don Nicol than ever. With the
stage to herself and" Katzen’s potent drink
under her tremulous pinny, Marie Le
Varre’s attempts to cajole a block of ice
into its box shook the theatre. Pleasant
Cecil Kelleway as the sophisticated
grandfather of student Mary (Phyllis
Dickinson) adds to the general gaiety in
his skirmishes with Dorothy Dunckley,
prim principal of the girls’ school, and
attractive Lesley Crane, the less prim
French mistress.
Robert Stoltz’s jolly melodies —includ-
ing “Dreaming of Love,” “A Girl Has
Got My Heart” and others made popu-
lar by the London showing of “Wild
Violets” —together with the gay dressing,
crisp ballet dancing and swiftly-chang-
ing settings, should please Australia’s
musicomedy lovers.
4* 4* 4* 4>
Sydney Phil, can claim, through it's
line of descent, which passes through the
Sydney Harmonic Vocal Society, that it
commenced performing “Messiah” 77
years ago. The oratorio wears as well
as ever, but it is a work on a high
pedestal, and has gathered traditions and
associations through constant repetition.
The criterion of what constitutes a
worthy performance tends to grow
higher. There are arias and choruses in
which Handel’s Italianate curley-cues
sound trivial unless they are very im-
pressively delivered. At the Town Hall
on Christmas night Howard Carr had at
his disposal one of the biggest organs in
the world, a fair orchestra, manly
male soloists (Lance Jeffree and Ray
Beatty), a sweet-voiced soprano and an
intelligent contralto (Marie Bremner and
Heather Kinnaird). Beatty’s “Why Do
the Nations Rage,” was a really fine
effort, the conducting was above quibble,
and the general effect was of a perform-
ance that was very nearly worthy of the
work.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Handel’s “Messiah” turned up for the
one hundred and eighteenth time at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Christmas Eve,
and a vast audience listened to one of
the ablest performances the Philhar-
monic ladies and gentlemen have given.
The soprano role lacked Stella Power’s
powerful voice, but it had more than a
substitute service in Irene Bennett’s clear
singing, which, though a trifle unprepared
in places, had considerable artistry. Joan
Jones gave her dusky contralto to some
of the most beautiful arias, and if there
was less depth in it than Clara Butt
could have provided, there was as much
music and a control that was well-nigh
perfect. Tenor Fred Williamson sang
excellently, and the triumph of the even-
ing’s solo work was Sydney basso Stan-
ley Clarkson’s portentous rendering of
“Why Do the Nations So Furiously
Rage Together?” “Hallelujah” and “For
Unto Us a Child Is Born” were, as usual,
the choral highlights, but Handel packed
such a multitude of marvellous things
into this oratorio, which occupied him
22 days, that it is hardly worth while to
particularise.
Bernard Heinze now knows his
“Messiah” inside out and controlled
orchestra and choir so well that he is
entitled to the best conditions he can get
from future audiences. It is traditional
to request the audience to refrain from
applause during the rendering of
numbers 22 to 31, on reverential
grounds. It would be equally reverential
if they refrained from applause alto-
gether, except at the interval and after
the finale. Then if they wanted to
they could let themselves go for half an
hour, and they probably would, for in
the absence of incidental hand-clapping,
the structure of the majestic whole would
be better perecived.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Art shows in Adelaide are still un-
usually frequent for summer. At the
Society of Art's gallery four clever S.A.
men unite in a black-and-white show.
Max Ragless favors heavy individual
gum-trees in the Van Raalte manner.
Malcolm Helsby specialises in archi-
tecture, mainly European. Alan Glover
works from the Grampians to the
Moonta (S.A.) mines. George Whinnen
has a few local effects, skilfully treated
sometimes to give almost the effect of
a wash-drawing. At' Preece’s gallery is
Elizabeth Skottowe, a young painter
with a weird imagination exercised in
singularly heavy color. She can show
Chinese influence, can draw girls with
innocent baby faces, or wan and evil in
the Aubrey Beardsley manner. She
illustrates nursery rhymes elaborately,
but with humor. Altogether, youthful
talent of originality and promise.
•f*
The British Masters show, which
needed a special Act of Parliament to
permit sending National and Tate Gal-
lery pictures across the world, occupies
three rooms in Adelaide Gallery. It is
strong in fine old portraits, mellowed by
time: Reynolds (three, including him-
self), Raeburn, Lawrence, Alan Ramsay,
Opie and Shee. Of later date are famous
subject-pictures, Wilkie’s “Blind Fiddler,”
the “Knight Errant” of Millais, Leslie’s
“Uncle Toby and the Widow,” Bram-
ley’s “Hopeless Dawn,” Herkomer’s
“Charterhouse Chapel,” Munnings’s
“Epsom,” Orchardson’s “Matrimonial
Quarrel,” Pettie’s “Vigil,” Waterhouse’s
“Oracle” and a fine specimen of the
multiple “Love and Death” by Watts.
Also there is a striking “Siege of Gib-
raltar” (on horseback!) in the. classical
style, by Copley. The famous nudist
Etty has a mere bird-study. Landscapes
are no less great' and well-selected: four
Turners (in his earlier and less flam-
boyant manner), Constable, Gains-
borough, Crome, Morland and Frederick
Walker.
Of special Australian interest in an
engrossing show are a bronze by Maurice
Lambert (son of George, and trained
under Derwent Wood);. a head by
Henry Lamb, born in Adelaide; and a
studio scene, by Samuel Butler, who was
a painter as well as an author.


Z II
OTEMYor SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by aIL
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes’ walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUB FOB
THE DISCBIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heering’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Stores in Bottles and 1 Bottles.
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to the Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney woke to a wet Boxing Day.
The sun made an effort, blinked a watery
eye for an hour or so, then ran for cover
before a thunderstorm. Left to itself
the sky did its worst. A cloud burst
and gave Randwick a thorough soaking.
Later on Water Waggon won the Chis-
holm Handicap. It looked as if the
drought had broken. But women went
out to Randwick, and some even wore
white hats. The McKelvey lady’s hat
wasn’t white, but it was large, of exotic
straw and was worn with a black crepe
frock that had a design in gold keys.
Philippa Stephen’s compact folded beret
of white accompanied a white-and-blue
frock. Mrs. Pat Osborne kept the rain
from her black frock with some nice
pearls.
Mrs. R. H. Bettington and sister Mrs.
Chapman, from England, were among
the punters. Eileen Moore, a Queens-
lander, aired nice navy-and-white checks.
Betty Balfe was fair and good-looking
in deep blues. Marie O’Brien had a lucky
day, and Mrs. Alan Potter was rain-
proofed in cream. Bea Meeks was pre-
pared for the worst, yet managed to look
smart; navy with white was her pick.
The R. A. Eakins brought daughter
Robin, and Mrs. M. F. Bruxner wore a
near-white linen suit with a hat that was
also ready for the sunshine.
White and romantic the Sylphides
floated into formation like, soft clouds
on an afternoon sky when there is a
gentle breeze stirring. Blown on the
music of Chopin they circled, entwined
and dissolved in the ballet that is as
poetic, as unreal as a reverie of youth.
Figments of a dream with their long
slim waists, their swaying white skirts,
their flower-wreathed heads, the dancers
might have been woodland acquaintances
of Mr. Shelley the poet. With such an
introduction the Monte Carlo Russian
Ballet won Sydney’s heart and admira-
tion. The rose-white on the stage was
repeated in many of the frocks and
wraps in circle and stalls. These gleamed
glamorous during the interval after the
first number. The crowded foyers had
the atmosphere of an informal party.
There was much shaking of hands and
exchanging of the season’s greetings.
Music and movement had stirred the
blood.
E. J. Tait brought with him the
original Norman Lindsay drawing of
“Scheherazade” that is reproduced on the
programme cover. With EJ. was daugh-
ter Mrs. Byron Wrigley, white orchids
on her black frock. Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax wore tailored wine-colored crepes.
Anne Gordon was slim in black, Mrs.
Sep Levy’s complexion and white hair
were set off by chiffons as blue as that
splashed in “Aurora’s Wedding.” Poetess
Dorothea Mackellar wore jade chiffon.
Deep gold tassels weighted the swaying
scarf ends. Among the white clad was
Mrs. C. L. Jones. Her frock of sheer
was sleekly fitting under a cape of quilted
white cloque. From her ears drooped
diamond and pearl ornaments. Very
slim-waisted was Mrs. Colin Galbraith
in her white taffeta frock with its full
skirt. Betty Brasch was another who
wore white. She added a white feather
cape and gardenias in her hair. Mrs.
Alexis Albert was all white and glitter-
ing like the snow princess.
Thick rose silk with a line of gold
through it made Mrs. F. J. Davy’s frock
and jacket. This was one of New York’s
latest. Near by stood Florence Bennett,
in black net made with the softly full
skirt of the moment. Mrs. Eric Baume
was there with daughter Nancy, both in
white. Mrs. E. Wunderlich sported a
most delicately-wrought pearl coronet
from- Vienna. Her gold bracelets had
pearl clasps. The Bertie Kellys were
front-seaters. Mrs. Kelly’s frock and
coat were of pale rose pink. She wore
no jewels, but had a delicate feather
ornament in her hair. With her was
Mrs. McPhillamy, whose satin frock held
the gleam of emeralds. Miss K. Egan
in this group wore pearls with her Flor-
entine-blue frock. Fair Clara Butter was
attractive in black. The Malcolm Mc-
Intyres were among the applauders.
Mrs. Roy Buckland, Adele Quinn and
Mrs. Roy Underwood were others noted.
Daphne Deane, who now makes her
home in Paris, wore red roses in her fair
hair, and in her white frock that had its
accompanying short quilted jacket. Add-
ing to the charm of the night, too, were
the girl ushers in their new, toe-length
taffeta frocks of dark terra-cotta red.
One girl in Sydney didn’t lie abed on
Monday after the holiday week-end.
She was Rose Helen Asquith, and she
was up with the lark because she had
to meet Frederick H. Cox in the chapel
of Newington College, “view mat.”
Rose Helen, whose parents were the
A. V. Asquiths, of Summer Hill, was
attractive in powder-blue cire crepe.
Her large Bangkok hat was off-white, so
were her shoes and gloves. Bride’s sister,
Mrs. L. A. Rea was matron of honor.
The ’groom is the eldest son of Dr. and
Mrs. F. H. Cox, of Helensburgh, South
Coast'.
Margaret Dare (formerly known as
Peggy Barnes), who appears in the talkie
“Rangle River,” is just 23. A childhood
on the north coast of N.S.W. was fol-
lowed, when the family moved to
Sydney, by boarding school at Moss
Vale for four years. Margaret, the
eldest of five girls, is an ash blonde, and
has unusual grey-green eyes. She is a
very keen sports woman, equally fond
of tennis, golf, riding and swimming.
Sydney Riley photo.
The Hubert Fairfaxes get well up in
the honors list for their Christmas party.
In a year packed tight with festive meet-
ings and greetings, each one bearing its
own joy brand, Mrs. Hubert managed
to stage a distinctive show. White and
silver was the scheme of decoration. In
the hall the mantelpiece was turned into
a long silver window-box, in which
white gladioli, roses and silver leaves
gleamed and glittered. Time was
laughed at by silver bells and stars about
the face of the grandfather clock. In
short, the whole affair was as glittersome
as a Christmas card from the far and
chilly lands. Here there was nothing
iced about the merry-making, except the
drinks. The intermittant showers failed
to keep patronage from the speed-boats
parked on the waterway at the foot of
the garden. There were 250 guests—
one Fairfax after another, among them
the Captain James Fairfax couple, and
daughter Bonita. There were Dangars,
Gordons, McMasters, Allens, the flying
Wincotts, Onslows, and Mrs. Moulden,
from Adelaide. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s
frock was blue cloque threaded with
silver. Son Vincent helped mother and
father entertain.
A heavily - laden Christmas - tree
bloomed on the parade ground of Vic-
toria Barracks last week, and brought
all the soldiers’ children running. There
were 400 of them, and they stood with
bated breath while Santa Claus dashed
on to the scene, his chariot drawn by
three spirited brown horses. The
charioteer was a Roman in a splendid
gold toga. Santa stepped out at the
entrance to a marquee close to the tree,
and the youngsters queued up according
to age. All the fours, the sixes, the
eights, the tens, the twelves were to-
gether. Twelve was the gentleman from
Lapland’s age limit. Anyone over that
got no present. The most popular ball
game during the afternoon was trying
to knock the loose tooth out of the
soldier’s head. The soldier, who appeared
to have reached the rank of major, was
smiling though inanimate, and all through
the afternoon youngsters whacked at that
loose tooth, plucking prizes for their
prowess.
Mrs. Ranald Peden will captain the
first Australian women's cricket team to
go to England. She is a daughter of
knight John Peden. Barbara Peden will
be included as an additional member.
Falk photograph of the intrepid captain.
Tamworth feels it has a pukka sol-
dier in Captain P. S. McGrath, of the
Australian Staff corps, whose unit, the
33rd Battalion (New England Regiment)
has just won the R.S. and S.I.L.A.
trophy. This trophy! a bronze statuette
of an Australian soldier, has been given
for competition among the 46 infantry
battalions in the Commonwealth. All
phases of the training and administra-
tion throughout the year are taken into
reckoning. The 33rd Battalion, estab-
lished on a voluntary basis two and a
half years ago, can now lay claim to
the title of the most efficient in the Aus-
tralian Military Forces. For the past
eight months Captain McGrath, who was
first adjutant and quartermaster, has
been its C.O.
While most mothers were preparing
their Christmas feasts, one was very dif-
ferently occupied, for the moment Perry
Bros.’ Circus hit the Sydney lot and the
new big-top of 200 ft. was up activities
centred around “Mum” Perry’s sewing
machine, at which she toiled unceasingly
to complete the new wardrobe for the
Boxing Night opening. Mrs. Perry is
not the wardrobe mistress, but her en-
thusiasm for her sons’ venture urged the
activities.
These Perry boys’ initial descent on
Sydney provided our first < Christmas
circus for untold years. A husband,
four sons and two daughters also helped
“Mum” and the 97 members of the
company, with their 283 animal pets, to
present a glittering new show.
The Women Pioneers held their Christ-
mas party away from their Macquarie-
street clubrooms. What was lost in inti-
mate atmosphere was made up for in
the extra space at the New Dungowan,
which was festive with scarlet gladioli
and Christmas-bush and softly shaded
lights. President Mrs. W. A. Lingham
sprayed her black laces with frangipanni,
secretary Carlotta Doyle wreathed her
head with gold leaves and trailed gold
laces. Betty Lingham tucked red roses
in her hair —a nice contrast to the blue
of her satin frock. Libby King was an-
other attractive girl.
The Historical Society’s K. R. Cramp
brought Mrs. Cramp. The neckline of
her black frock was outlined in silver.
Aubrey Halloran, another historical en-
thusiast, proposed the toast of the presi-
dent. W. H. Childs came with his wife
and daughters Hilda and Muriel. Miss
Betts and Miss Beard motored from
Gladesville, and the Sullivans, Elise
Budge with them, came from Campbell-
town. Lydia Stewart’s soft pink crepe
frock was made with a matching jacket.
Beth McWilliams, from Queensland,
clasped her pink chiffons on the
shoulders with pearl rings.
All last week the little company that
under Lute Drummond’s guidance pre-
sents plays in the open air at Castle
Crag was rehearsing its Nativity play.
The wife of Professor Brose, who before
her marriage was Shakspearean actress
Jean Robertson, made an appealing
Madonna. This amphitheatre above
Middle Harbor is an ideal setting for
the shepherds watching their flocks, the
kings following the star. Little Suzanne
Halley, one of the players of last year,
is away in Europe, studying the piano
with Friedmann. It is likely she will go
to Italy, where he has his headquarters.
Joan Hammond, another of this group,
writes from Vienna, where had
just heard Tauber singing in “Don
Giovanni.”
The Consul-General for Denmark and
Mrs. Host served the cocktail of farewell
at their Point Piper home. They go off
in the Tanda in January bound for their
native land, but on the way they will
glimpse China and Japan, Russia and
Finland. Besides seeing their two sons,
who are at school in Denmark, they will
be present at the silver jubilee celebra-
tions of King Christian X. To their
sovereign his subjects in Australia are
sending a gold cigarette box set with
opals. Frocks at this late-afternoon
party were ankle-length or longer. The
hostess had a flared tunic to her frock
of stiffened ivory lace.- With this she wore
a small toque of ivory silk finished with
a short veil of wide mesh. All the
Consuls and their wives were at the re-
ception. Hubert Murray’s lady added a
cherry hat to her cool flowered chiffons.
Mayoress Parkes, who was squired by
her husband, wore a pale-blue linen suit.
No wonder the brass-hats of the Orient
Co. were delighted with Margaret Pres-
ton's Australian wildflowers and asked
her to paint four panels for the Orcades,
their new ship. This Letter had a pri-
vate view of one of the paintings the
other day, and, like Wordsworth with
his daffodils, her occasional solitude is
still blissful with the cool grey-greens of
the flannel-flower, the ethereal quality
of the bottle-brush. The artist, these
days, lives at Berowra. If the quality
of Margaret Preston’s work is a cri-
terion, this will be the beginning of a
rush of orders for Australian artists to
decorate the luxury liners. The man
responsible for the interior decoration of
the Orcades is a brilliant young Maori-
lander, O’Rourke. It was he who looked
after the line and rhythm of the Orion.
While Sydney is steaming in its vapor-
bath weather the other end of the world
is drawing the belt severely round its
topcoat' and woollen dress. One just
back tells that belts of evej;y size and
color dazzle the eye and limn the waist.
The small leg-of-mutton sleeve still per-
sists, the Spanish upheaval has a fashion
commentary in the bolero, and ac-
quaintance with the. Soviet is recognised
in the tunic, which is a .variation of the
Russian blouse. Colors retain Corona-
tion gaiety. Red, white and blue occur
in innumerable ornaments, and judging
by the number of scarves so patriotically
emblazoned woman, as the Song of
Songs has it, will be “terrible as an army
with banners.” The effulgent gold frock
and coat are to put a sumptuous note
into evening wear. Coats and dresses
are in at the waist and flaring at the
hem ; shoulders are still emphasised. But
don’t forget that no matter how full the
skirt, the waistline above it must be
slender to give it its effect. Keep on with
the stretching exercises.
One of the hottest days of the year
was that picked by polar explorer Dr.
William Wilson Ingram for his wedding
day. The doctor was with two Mawson
expeditions to the South Pole. He is also
president of the Old Contemptibles
Association, having served in France
with the Fourth Dragoon Guards. Now,
here comes the bride. She was Dorothy
Edith King, of Hamilton, M.L., and she
has just recently returned from an ex-
tended tour abroad. New York was one
of her places of call, and there she bought
the smart dark sapphire chiffon suit
printed with large white coin spots. On
the jacket she had pinned a spray of
white stephanotis, and her hat was wide
and white. Padre George Cowie tied the
knot in the Fullerton Memorial Church.


BRANDAUER3
mg
%
(PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDACER * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Meet
Phanto m
in
* U « T R A L I A. At
WOMANS MIRROR
Now on Sale
v\y
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne was lucky in its holiday
weather, for sunshine made things cheer-
ful and swimming possible. At Caul-
field races on Boxing Day there was a
coolish breeze which made suits more
comfortable than silk frocks and little
hats more popular than large brims.
Everywhere on country roads were the
cars and caravans of thousands of
campers going bush around the bay or
up in the hills. Most Christmas toys for
the children which survived the first 24
hours of popularity are still intact, par-
ticularly the ones that blow loud noises
and the more expensive things on
wheels. It has been a very martial year.
Guests, tradesmen and odd members of
the family are finding themselves gazing
into the muzzles of pea-rifles or loaded
water-pistols at unexpected moments.
Tanks which crawl about spluttering real
fire, aeroplanes and fighting cruisers are
favorites, and a fort studded with long-
range guns causes more interest than a
passenger train on rails —but give the
engine a gun and fill the trucks with
bombs and the small lad who owns the
toy will love it so much he’ll want it
beside his pillow when he goes to bed.
Artists and others got into smocks or
comic disguises and swept down on Mrs.
E. Barnes’s flat for a surprise party.
Among those who helped make the
evening go with a bang was Mrs. Barnes
herself in a pop-eyed mask, Gil Ward in
a false nose and eyebrows like black
caterpillars, and Harold Brockhoff, who
got in and out of several changes of
costume. Out of respect for his Barnacle-
Bill-the-Sailor mask Bill Constable
painted surrealist pictures on his arms
and chest which he called tattooing. His
wife’s demure dimity frock was some-
thing safe to look at after her pea-green
mask. Also present were sculptor O. S.
Dutton and his wife, Geoff Anderson,
looking cool enough in shirt and paper
cap, Max Glover, in an Arab get-up, and
a piratical George Thomas.
As she has done for the last twenty
years or more, Mrs. Barry Thomson
organised and collected presents for the
Christmas tree in Alfred Hospital child-
ren’s ward. For what, as far as he can
remember, was the sixteenth year in
succession Wallace Mitchell was Father
Christmas ; this time a late arrival owing
to hot-weather trouble with his beard.
But plastic surgery with sticky tape did
the trick and none of the children had
their illusions shattered by collapsed
whiskers.
Among those, other than small patients,
who received gifts were Joan and Mary
Mac Kay, daughters of the late John
Mac Kay, who used to be medical super-
intendent of the hospital. The J. M.
Buchanans’ Primrose and Phoebe looked
like a couple of spring buds as in pale-
green muslin frocks and hats they walked
up to choose buckets and spades from the
glistening tree. John Barry Arnold, who
comes all the way from the Northern
Territory, also received a present. Among
grown-ups who had their names called
were Matron Wilson, Sister Myrtle Rowe
and Sister Esther Stubbs. Miss Stubbs
received so many parcels that she couldn’t
carry them, for the party was also her
farewell after ten years in charge of the
ward. She left the hospital the same
afternoon, and sails this week for Eng-
land on an indefinite holiday.
Among doctors who were given either
cigarettes or the choice of toys were
rned. sup. Bill Allen, surgeon H. C.
Colville, who made a speech, Ben Mur-
ray, Max Simons, Dudley Longmuir,
John Nish and Ron Rome. Knight
Robert Knox came along in the capacity
of a member of the board and went
home with Minnie Mouse under his
arm. Among other guests were Mrs.
Leslie Love, with two young lads, Dr.
and Mrs. Pender and their son, Colonel
Eller, who found himself the owner of
a water-can, Mrs. B. J. Hattam and Mrs.
Jane Hitchcock. Marjorie Deacon and
Olwyn Banks, both on the nursing staff
sick list, were brought into the ward to
see the tree and share in the fun.
Esme Allee was among committee
members present. This year, as in the
past, she attended to Father Christ-
mas’s dispatch department for children
who live in lighthouses on the Vic. and
Tas. coasts. But the youngsters are
growing up and going away to school;
where there were 60 last year there are
only 45 parcels to be sent off on the
next trip of the Cape York on January
10.
Every Christmas for the last eight
years Mrs. F. C. Green and Mrs. E. C.
Lycett have given a party for their
golfing friends. The usual ritual is bridge
at one of the hotels, but this year both
hostesses thought that cocktails and their
own personal cooking would be more
fun. Harry MacKirdy lent his home in
Armadale for the occasion. He comes
from Bute, a speck off the west of Scot-
land to which, as he puts it, “the British
Isles are adjacent.”
Decorations included quantities of
hydrangeas (particularly gorgeous this
year) and a bunch of mistletoe the
genuine stuff, according to the florist who
procured it after a week’s notice, but to
the uninitiated it might have passed for
gum-leaves. Mrs. Lycett’s son Tony
helped receive the early guests, but by
the time the latest arrivals were being
plied with food and drink he was en
route for Sydney to spend a holiday with
his cousin Dr. Studley Lush. Another
cousin, June Phillipson, also had to leave
early for a rehearsal of “Wild Violets.”
She is a student at the Con. and very
excited about being allotted as under-
study to Phyllis Dickinson. Among the
guests were W. A. Bartlett, the Reg
Wyatts (she in a square-cut gown of
black satin), genial Bill Boyd and the
John Bourke couple, Mrs. Bourke with
frangipanni pinned to her floral frock.
While many students enjoyed an un-
fettered Christmas with both examina-
tions and results off their minds,
Dymphna Lodewyckx has to wait until
February for the verdict on her final
honors Arts course with German as a
major subject. The cause of the delay
is that Prof. Lodewyckx cannot correct
his daughter’s papers. Miss Lodewyckx
was born in Melbourne and went to
school at P.L.C. She will probably sit
for the Mollison Scholarship next year
in German, and hopes eventually to
secure a secretarial or diplomatic posi-
tion where her proficiency in languages
will be of use to her. David Murray
photo.
Steamy humidity and hot sunshine
alternating before and after a sudden
heavy tropical rainstorm made condi-
tions unpleasant at Kooyong for the
final of the Victorian tennis champion-
ship. Quist and Turnbull, who concluded
their singles after the rain, wore black
shoes, and the balls they used were soon
almost as black. But for one or two
brave exceptions (braces notwithstand-
ing) men spectators sat and simpered in
thick clothes. Some had hankies over
their necks in the mode of Arab sheiks,
others knotted their bandannas in each
corner for a style of headgear which
some nursery-rhyme illustrators inflict
on the old-woman-who-lived-in-a-shoe.
Eileen Mussen looked cool as anybody
in her simple white linen frock. The
Charles Littlejohns were there, she in
sky-blue; Millicent Cairns was also in
the same refreshing shade. Helen Speed-
ing’s frock was narrowly striped in green
and white. Lynette Walker’s suit of
white tunic and navy skirt was accom-
panied by her Queen Mary bag, which
she bought in London, its clasps nickel-
plated funnels, with a suggestion of bow
across one corner.
In the burst of Christmas parties which
usually start about five and proceed on-
wards to any hour of the dawn, Group-
Captain and Mrs. Eric Harrison’s was
an exception, for it took place in the
forenoon at their Brighton home. Among
his other talents, Group-Captain Harri-
son has a straight eye and a steady hand
for carpentry and painting. In place of
the old front verandah there is now a
brick path with “green mortar” or grass
coaxed up between bricks. The front
door, too, is now wearing its new
summer beach design of yellow-and-
white stripes, and there is more yellow
high up under the eaves.
It being a smallish party, Mrs. Harri-
son was able to use her present of a set
of animal marks for glasses. Fish, dogs,
cats, etc., are snapped on to the rim of
each glass. Among the guests were Cap-
tain Jerry Atkinson, who has just ar-
rived from England to take on his first
job away from the regular army (it’s an
oil co.). He has done several years’
service in India and Nigeria. Senator
and Mrs. Jack Leckie were there also,
she making an appearance after having
been for several weeks marooned in her
flat on the roof of a Collins-street build-
ing, an invalid with a bad ankle sprain
and break.
Katherine Cockerell, who arrived
recently in Melbourne with her father,
is spending her first warm-weather
Christmas. Miss Cockerell studied agri-
cultural science at the farm school in
Cornwall, and Australian dairy-farms
and butter factories are of particular
interest to her. She admires all good
cows, but, like many other dairy speci-
alists, has a soft spot for Jerseys. She
also accomplished a course of Truby
King baby welfare and is interested in
pictorial art. Her father is knight
Sydney Cockerell, newly appointed Lon-
don adviser to the Felton Bequest. He
is also director of the Fitzwilliam
Museum at Cambridge, but will retire
from this position next September.
So long are our midsummer twilights
that “Wild Violets” opened in daylight.
The revolving stage, which has moved
only once since its first operation in
“Collits’ Inn” three years ago, helped to
make the show spectacular. Although
so many people were out of town for
the holidays it was a packed house. The
cast was nervous, some of them being in
roles very different from any they had
before experienced. Local lads who had
played before only in straight parts had
to do singing, dancing and tumbling;
chorus girls rode bicycles, not so easy
to do at a slow pace after only a few
days’ • practice; and in the last scene
there was skating, or attempted skating,
on imitation ice. Even Marie Le Varre,
in her curtain speech, admitted that her
part of Augusta was something quite
new to her, and added that she didn’t
know if she liked it much. She needn’t
have worried ; several people in the audi-
ence who saw the show four years ago in
London with Charlotte Greenwood in
the main comedy role pronounced
Marie’s interpretation excellent.
Miss Le Varre wore red-and-white
gingham with an organdie apron and a
platinum wig. Her team-mate Don
Nichol was a picturesque Tyrolean with
shiny oilcloth shorts, embroidered sock-
tops and a feather in his hat. The in-
mates of the seminary for young ladies
were dressed for the early nineteen-
hundreds in Quaker grey and scarlet for
school, in white net festooned with
scarlet leaves for afternoon visits to the
Stone Jug Inn, in plaid divided skirts,
gaiters and gem hats for cycling, and in
pink chiffon, black lace and pink feathers
in black velvet hats for “best.”
In the audience were Major and Mrs.
Walter Berry, she in mist-grey lace ; Mrs.
Montague Cohen, who entertained a
large party ; the Norman Cozens couple ;
Commander Leo Quick and his wife,
whose lame coat covered a pastel-pink
gown, and John and Kath Goodall, Kath
in an intriguing garment of blue-and-
white check moire with winged pique
lapels. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, who was
accompanied by two children, brought a
cushion to make her chair more com-
fortable. Mrs. Tom Hudson was there,
having deserted for the evening her home
in South Yarra, at present in the hands
of painters and builders. The W. M.
Robins couple were present, Mrs. Robins
being one of the many wearers of fur
capes. Betty Triado’s sleek dark head
looked well above her ice-blue frock.
The Ernest Heymansons were another
pair noticed, and a picture in mush-
room pink was Mrs. Charles Nodrum,
whose long gloves were exactly the same
shade as her gown.
Among first-nighters back once more
after being absentees right through the
two months of Russian Ballet were Dr.
and Mrs. Roy Chambers, who, with
daughter Helen, leave for Perth this
week to be present at the wedding of
Mrs. Chambers’s sister, Grace Baker, to
Fred Williams. But the doctor’s holi-
day is to be short; after only three days
in Perth he and his suitcase will fly back
to Melbourne.
The first interest which Mrs. Cleve
Kidd and Colonel G. I. Stevenson dis-
covered in common was contract bridge.
Their engagement came as a great sur-
prise, for they hadn’t known one an-
other long. At' the cocktail party at.
Colonel Stevenson’s home, which turned
out to be a wedding-day celebration, the
bride of an hour or so was all in white,
her gown of heavy white crepe being
elaborated with milk-white sequins and
offset with a featherweight straw hat and
a bracelet of gardenias. Mrs. Steven-
son’s only daughter Betty, who became
Mrs. Vere Hunt a few months ago,
cabled from England a cheery message
of congratulation. Colonel Stevenson’s
two children have still several years of
school ahead of them, but they have met.
and are already good pals of their step-
mother. Mrs. Stevenson, who has been
living in Mrs. Ivan Gutmann’s home in
St. George’s-road, is looking forward to
redecorating Ingleby, which stands in a
a rambly old garden in Caroline-street.
Paying her first visit to Australia is
Madame Feliza, who is English by birth
and French by marriage ; she was left a
widow 11 years ago. Madame has had
a long career of nursing, and though she
has given up her profession she is still
interested in it, and is being taken on
tours of inspection through hospitals.
All through the war she worked in hos-
pitals in England, where she made the
acquaintance of many Australians.
Afterwards she became matron of the
Anglo-American Clinic at Nice, and
later was attached to Dr. Siegel’s clinic
at Mentone.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS, AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
„ N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
TASMANIA— - The Wonderland
Is Beautifully Illustrated in
The Examiner Annual
Order a Copy froir
your Bookseller.
1/6
Australian Representatives:
Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.
NORTH OF
twenty-EIGHT
“Gain”; Judging by the full report of
the public meeting at Rabaul to protest
against native conditions, “Wanderer”
(B. 16/12/’36) did not overstate the case.
Resolutions “deplored and viewed with
alarm the growing incidence of native
crime, the lack of discipline and the in-
adequate measures taken by the adminis-
tration to deal with the situation.” Tales
were told of lorry-loads of howling,
betel-nut chewing, intoxicated natives
overturned by the roadside on their way
home; of white drivers’ cats forced off
the road to the accompaniment of native
jeers, and of prevalent Peeping-Tom
practices. Bungalows now being built
by the administration have, “boy-proof
rooms,” masked windows and iron or
steel grilles covering other open parts. The
New Guinea native is an intelligent
fellow who loves mischief, and who is
only 35 years removed from when settlers
off the Kokopo road carried rifles if they
fared forth in the dusk. The whole native
administration needs overhaul, prefer-
ably by an experienced British-African
or -Indian official. Even in the quieter
parts of India they take no chances.
Most towns in the black south have a
fortified compound ready in case of
trouble. In New Guinea if there were
an outbreak of native rioting there would
be no refuge for white women and
children. There isn’t even a white police
guard of serviceable dimensions in
Rabaul.
* * * *
“Zedo”: While the best transport pro-
vided for officials along North Australia
is a motor-launch unsuitable for long
patrols, Canberra has determined to do
the New Guinea Mandate administration
well in the way of shipping. Two 70ft.
Government vessels, motor-engined and
with three cabins 'apiece, are to be pro-
vided for official transport. But they
won’t be armed as the Darwin launch
is. A machine-gun might cause reper-
cussions at Geneva if the Liberian dele-
gate heard about it.
* * * *
“X.T.”: That gentle idealist N. P.
Congeau, whose wife was one of Queens-
land’s poetesses, used to have a fruit-
shop in Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane, which
sold the best and cheapest fresh fruit lun-
cheon in the Commonwealth. Thither
went Judges, politicians, bankers and
Stock Exchange men. Visitors from
overseas were taken there to be shown
what Queensland fruit really was like.
Madame Congeau died some time ago
and now her husband has followed her.
He left the best part of £3600 to Boy
Scouts, Red Cross, Ambulance Brigade
and Anglican Church.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Hubert Murray’s annual
report on Papuan administration is a
most picturesque document. He has
plenty of material to work on. What
with native villages lighted by electricity,
savage regions full of head-hunters
and rivers full of crocodiles there is still
exotic life in Papua. Murray calls atten-
tion to a custom of the Duramu back-
blocks, where the local flapper will have
nothing to do with the local buck’s pro-
posal unless he arrives with a certificate
that he has scuppered another gent., in
proof whereof he brings one of the de-
ceased’s fingers as an engagement token.
It is more barbarous than buying a six-
carat diamond set in white gold on t.-p.,
but it may have its merits. It at least
gives a warning of what may happen to
the bride if she goes through the pay
envelope too often.
* * * *
“Isobar”: The rainfall of Cairns
(N.Q.), mentioned by “Washee Washee”
(B. 9/12/’36), is a Scotch mist compared
with that of lnnisfail. After a three-
days spell of fine weather, a drought
is considered to be operating and the
churches get busy with supplications.
Some years back a visitor from America,
seeing a large sheet of water at the back
of the P. 0., threw off his clothes and
dived in. The local John met him com-
ing out. “Don’t y’ know there’s no
swimmin’ allowed here?” thundered the
Law. “Waal, I reckoned you could bathe
in any Gahdam’ waterhole in this one-
hoss hamlet,” replied America. “Water-
hole?” returned the copper. “It’s th’
rain-gauge av th’ post office.”
* * * *
“Z.N.”: Standing in motor-launches
and swimming neck-deep on horseback,
a few drovers performed a most unusual
feat when they transported 40 head of
cattle from Stradbroke Island in More-
ton Bay to Southport (Q.). On every
sandbank the animals were given a rest,
and with the exception of a large red
bull which defied all attempts to get
him into the water, and retreated into
the fastnesses of the Stradbroke Hills,
all were landed without casualty. The
cattle are owned by B. Levinge and A.
“ Haven't y' got a place where a bloke can get a sweat up? I'm from
Marble Bar ."
Medland, and many of them are descen-
dants of the herd owned by W. North,
who in the early days held the sole
grazing rights for Stradbroke.
* * * *
“Checkers”: Where are the experts
of yesteryear who used to play bush
draughts? It’s simple to start, and a
man can while away many an odd hour
at it. First, as with O’s and X’s, a pair
of parallel lines are drawn at right-
angles to another pair, making nine
spaces on the ground. Three distinguish-
able men apiece for the two players are
placed on the board, and the moves are
the same as draughts, one square at a
time. The fellow who has his three men
in a line —perpendicular, diagonal or
horizontal —is the winner. There are
plenty of moves, combinations, tangles
and traps into which a man can blunder,
and, at a drink a rubber, it’s as easy to
lose money at it as to gain a sore head.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: One of the curious
sights of Nor’-Westralia is the number
of sea snakes, six, eight and even ten
feet long, that can be seen whilst skirt-
ing the coast in a lugger anywhere north
of Broome. On any day’s run in calm
weather literally hundreds may be
counted. Reputed to be highly venom-
ous, these reptiles appear to hold no
terrors for Binghi, and more than once
I have seen a swimming buck snatch a
big one and grind its head to mince-
meat against the side of a canoe or a
catamaran.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Christmas givings included pretty
dress-lengths for workers of the women’s
section, Queensland Social Service.
League. The workers, entertained at a
Christmas party, were received by Mrs.
Henry Robertson, acting-president. Mrs.
Forgan Smith made the presentations.
Dr. A. G. Anderson, wife and daugh-
ters Joan and Ruth are off for a
camping party on the North Coast
in the new year. Mrs. Penleigh Boyd,
of Melbourne, and her two tall
sons will be in the party. It is a
long time since Mrs. Penleigh Boyd (who
was Edith Anderson) visited her native
State. She is the younger daughter of the
late J. G. Anderson, and it' was while she
was studying art in Paris that she met
her husband, the brilliant young land-
scape painter whose tragic death was a
loss to Australian art.
This has been a record month for
weddings. On one Saturday afternoon
popular padres had to turn away dozens
of couples, which meant that small and
unfrequented churches reaped a harvest.
Davida Joyce Helsdon scorned the
conventional bridal white for hei altar
date with Douglas Robert Nash, ohe
was gowned in pale green, and wore a
tulle veil to match, with a satin halo.
Norma Helsdon, the bridesmaid, was
frocked in green, too, but of a deeper
shade. The bridegroom is the son of
Mrs. J. Nash, of Melbourne.
Over 140 guests were bidden to the
wedding of Patsy Bell Alistair
Scobie Mackinnon at St. John s Cathe-
dral, with a cocktail party at the home of
the bride’s mother, Mrs. E. T. Bell, to
follow. The bride wore a brooch of
gold filigree set with amethysts, which
had been a gift to her great-great-grand-
mother, Mrs. Thomas Walker —a Blax-
land—from Lady Brisbane. Mrs.
J. T. M. Bell, grandmother, presented it
to the bride. The Governor and Lady
Wilson, with Captain Reggie Leathes in
attendance, were at this affair.
That overworked soul, Father Christ-
mas was so much in demand that his
reindeer must have gone at the knees.
At any rate-, he arrived on a donkey at
the party given by the Queensland Am-
bulance Transport Brigade, at which
over 100 children were entertained. This
is an annual party, always with bright
entertainment to amuse the small guests.
The Overseas League also was bitten
by the Christmas spirit, and lavish deco-
rations of holly were a feature of their
party at' the Lyceum Club. Mrs. Isaiah
Lahey and Florence White received the
guests.
There have been decidedly original
touches about some of the private
Christmas parties. One was enlivened
with scenes from “Romeo and Juliet,”
Romeo being a well-known professional
man who long since has given up girth-
control in disgust. His Juliet was a slim
deb. of this year.
Marjorie Stewart, only daughter of
Dr. H. J. Stewart, Albion, has a new
diamond circlet on the finger. Lucky
man is Paddy (otherwise A. R. Norris)
Vidgen, son of A. R. Vidgen, of Gay-
thorne.
The French frigate Rigault de
Genouilly berthed at the Nixon Smith
wharf, and its officers proceeded to en-
tertain with Gallic lavishness. The cap-
tain, in creaseless white uniform, re-
ceived guests at the head of the gang-
way on the afternoon when half Bris-
bane was bidden to “tea”—a beverage
that was conspicuous by its absence.
Cocktails and wine there were in plenty,
and despite the fact that few of the
officers could speak English and practi-
cally none of their flapper guests knew
any French, all seemed to get along
splendidly. P.. E. Nixon Smith, Consul
for France, was a busy man while the
French boat was here ; when the officers
weren’t entertaining on board, he and
his wife were doing the honors ashore.
The Alliance Fran9aise gave the sailor-
men a party at Mt. Coot-tha, and lots
of private parties were arranged for
them.
The Younger Set' of the Montrose
Home for Crippled Children committee
gives a party for the kiddies each Christ-
mas. This year V. Knight and his sailor
doll Tommy first delighted the young-
sters with a ventriloquist display; after-
wards the same clever entertainer pro-
duced a Punch and Judy show tha
thrilled the infants.
Sister Kenny gave a Christmas party
for the crippled children under her care.
There were two trees bending beneath a
load of gifts and a Father Christmas to
do the distributing. One of the patients,
little Coral Gramley, presented a bou-
quet to Sister Kenny, posies to Mrs.
Charlie Chuter and Mrs. J. Mann, and
buttonholes to the Minister, E. M.
Hanlon, and the crowd of Government
officials who were with him. He in turn
presented Sister Kenny with a wristlet-
watch from the parents.
Those of our socialites who aren’t
staying at Southport are. holidaying
aboard their yachts, among these the
Maldwyn Davies pair, the Reg Kings,
the Fred Eagers, the A. J. Huybers and
the Eric Sparkes couples. They all have
packs of guests to keep them company.


Legal Notice.
ROBERT GREY—Children of
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 7th day of
August 1936 and made in the suit (No. 365
of 1936) intituled “IN THE MATTER of the
Trusts concerning certain moneys paid to the
Public Trustee of New South Wales under an
Order made by the High Court of Justice of
England on the 16th day of July 1935 in a
matter ‘Re Grey’s Trusts; Grey v. Grey’
AND IN THE MATTER of the Trusts of the
will of Joseph Grey late of Briermede, Low
Fell in the County of Durham England Gentle-
man deceased. BETWEEN THE PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Plaintiff, AND ROBERT GREY,
ETHEL GREY, LAURA GREY and
FLORENCE STUART, Defendants” whereby
the following inquiries were directed, viz.: “who
were the children of Robert Grey (called in the
will of the abovenamed testator Joseph Grey
‘Robert Grey the Younger’) who being a son or
sons have attained the age of twenty-one years
or being a daughter or daughters have attained
that age or married and whether any of the
said children is or are illegitimate.” Notice is
hereby given that all persons claiming to be
entitled under the said inquiries are to send by
post, prepaid to the Public Trustee, at 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, so as to reach him
on or before the 24th day of March, 1937, their
full Christian and surnames, addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims,
or in default thereof, they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said Decretal Order,
unless the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity on application otherwise
orders. Claimants are to attend personally or
by their solicitor before the Master in Equity
at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
on Wednesday, the 31st day of March, 1937, at
11 o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims or
so soon thereafter as the course of business will
permit. A claimant not residing in New South
Wales must send with particulars of his claim,
the name and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notices to the claimants can
be sent.
DATED the 9th day of December, 1936.
THOMPSON, BRADFIELD & FINCHAM,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee,
9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
GEORGE O’SULLIVAN (or SULLIVAN)
Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales, in its Equitable
Jurisdiction dated the 25th day of September,
1936, and made in a suit (No. 967 of 1936) in-
tituled “In the matter of the estate of George
O’Sullivan, formerly of Sydney, in the State of
New South Wales, Freeholder, deceased, Intes-
tate, between the Public Trustee, Plaintiff, and
Lavinia Mary Murray, Defendant,” whereby the
following inquiries were directed, viz.: WHO
were the statutory next-of-kin of the above-
named George O’Sullivan, deceased, at the date
of his death, entitled to share in the distribution
of his Estate, and WHETHER any of them has
since died, and, IF SO, who are their respective
legal personal representatives. NOTICE is
hereby given that all persons claiming to be
entitled under the said inquiries are to send by
post prepaid to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, so as to reach him
on or before the 10th day of March, 1937, their
full Christian and surnames, addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims
or in default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said Order unless the Court
or a Judge thereof or the Master in Equity
on application otherwise orders. Claimants are
to attend personally or by their Solicitor before
the master in Equity at the Supreme Court,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on the 17th day of
March, 1937, at 11 o’clock in the forenoon or
so soon thereafter as the said claims can be
adjudicated on. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with particulars
of his claim the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notices to the
claimant can be sent.
DATED this 18th day of December, 1936.
J. J. CARROLL & SON,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fanqy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
£55 for Short Stories
For the best short stories, serious or humorous, submitted before
January 31, 1937, “The Bulletin” offers the following prize-
money : —
First* £30
Second £15
Third £5
Special Prize Best Brief Story £5
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be paid for at
“Bulletin” rates.
Closing date for the competition is January 31, 1937. - But it is not
intended to wait till then before publishing entries; any considered to
have a chance will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand.. At the close of the competition ALL the entries will
be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor’s hitherto unpublished original work,
and must be accompanied by a declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 5000 words. The special prize of £5 for the
best brief story will go to the best story of 1000 words or less. It, of
course, will also have equal chance with longer entries of taking any
of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full names and addresses of the winners
will be published when the results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as he or she desires,
and there is no entry fee.
No member of “The Bulletin” staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:—
"Short Story Competition,"
C/o "THE BULLETIN,"
Box 2521BB, G.P.O., Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Dorothy Royce, whose golf has won
her fame on Metropolitan links, part-
nered John Ottewell in the matrimonial
mixed doubles at Christ Church, Clare-
mont. Pink taffeta glistened through the
weblike effect' of her oyster laces,
which were flanked with leg-of-mutton
sleeves, slit from neck to waist at the
back and girdled with plaited taffeta,
the pleated inlet spreading out into
a long fan-shaped train and her wide
oyster straw was banded with ribbon.
Pat Royce and Corrie Cornish ’maided
in floral chiffons, the necks finished with
plaited bands which merged into soft
shoulder and back drapings; the chiffon
swathes encircling their pink picture
hats cascaded over the brims at the back.
Another wedding with a behatted
bride was that of Billie Kirkwood, who
became Mrs. Tom Eyres at St. Andrew’s
Kirk. Her violet georgettes were pleated
from neck to calf, edged with paler
pleatings at sleeve and hem and topped
with an off-the-face parchment balli-
buntal straw. In her wake came Betty
Mereweather, all cloudy with dusty-
pink chiffon liberally bebuttoned, wide-
sashed and surmounted with matching
baku straw. At the Hotel Esplanade
Mrs. Kirkwood received in a graceful
combination of black georgette and lace.
Cottesloe Golf Club’s Christmas dance
was a cheery affair with plenty of
colored lights and baubles. Floral deco-
rations were carried out in green and
mauve, gum-tips and scabious holding
pride of place. Mrs. W. W. Saw pre-
sided over the doings in a rich mingling
of black silk net and moire taffeta. Mrs.
Don Cleland decked her hydrangea-pink
georgettes with plaited gold lame, and
Mrs. F. E. Wingrove trimmed black
taffeta with velvet. Mrs. Don Stewart
slipped a silver embroidered tunic over
reed-green crepe satin, a silver mist hung
over Maimie Brown’s cloud-grey georg-
ettes, and Mrs. P. K. Hazlitt embossed
her black taffetas with gold.
The bathing-suit war waged among
controllers of suburban beaches has at
last been amicably settled. Rolled-down
suits are barred, but men may wear
belted trunks on all the foreshores in-
stead of reserving them, as heretofore,
for the esplanades, where the beach
controllers hold no sway. The old neck-
to-knee by-law has been ignored.
Color is strikingly noticeable in men’s
beach wear this season. Gowns and
sandals are striped to match, berets or
sunhats harmonise and even the rims of
sunglasses tone in with the color
scheme. Women select their gear with
as much care as they do a race or dance
outfit; brollies, hats, gowns, suits, foot-
wear and vanity cases are parts of a
symmetrical whole, and make-up is ad-
justed to blend. One damsel, the posses-
sor of a navy-and-white ensemble,
lacquers her finger- and toe-nails navy
and provides contrast with a tangerine
mouth.
Four little maids—Jean, Pam and Zoe
Johnson and Kathleen Bridgeman—were
the diminutive attendants at the Jeffery-
Johnson wedding at St. Mary’s, South
Perth. Their filmy apricot organdies,
cut early-Victorian-wise with frills and
furbelows, made a pleasing background
for bride Edna’s bouffant parchment
taffetas. After the honeymoon the
’groom, who hails from Linfield, Eng-
land, will take his bride to their new
home at Wiluna.
W. A. broadcasters’ Christmas party,
arranged by Auntie Laurel Berryman,
had probably the largest attendance of
any similar function in the city. Thous-
ands trekked up to King’s Park, where a
living fir-tree was laden with gala gee-
gaws, and Father Christmas dispensed
his gifts in record time. The v.-r. party
was there doing its bit among the
children.
After two years’ touring abroad Mrs.
Sydney Thompson was welcomed home
at a party given by her two daughters,
Mrs. J. M. Russell and Mrs. Peter
Grandison, at the former’s home in Dal-
keith. Presentation flowers were held
against the guest of honor’s mulberry-
corded silk, with its matching hat and
eye-veil. Mrs. Leigh Thomason and
Rose Atkinson added songs to the tea
and chatter.
A brace of rural engagements cropped
up after the timely rain. Tinker Wiggles-
worth, from Kojonup, has announced
hers to Charles Carlyle Morley, of the
same district, and the Gabyon station.
A. H. Gillams have promised to give
lone ewe lamb Margaret into the keep-
ing of Dr. and Mrs. Webster’s son Ivan.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Usually at this time of year Governor
and staff are well dug in at Marble Hill,
but the centenary has been responsible
for such an influx of visitors that the
vice-regals can’t get away until after the
holidays.
His Excellency and Lady Dugan gave
a reception at Government House. In
the ballroom a buffet supper was going
all the evening. Lady Dugan was a
graceful figure in a duck-egg-blue satin
beaute on princess lines merging into a
train with square-cut bodice. Lady
Hartington’s white silk crepe was
moulded to the figure, flaring slightly
at the feet, with a hip-length cape, of
white ostrich feathers. Mrs. Haselden
was in black silk net', the full skirt
tucked round the hem. Lady Brooke,
who, with her husband, Sir Basil Brooke,
is staying with Alec Downer at
Bridgewater, was gowned in a gold and
red tissue cut on princess lines with a
large red rose at the waistline on the
back. Premier Butler’s wife wore a black
satin beaute toilette on long lines with
angel sleeves; she carried a black ostrich-
feather fan. Daughter Jean was in a
slim frock of aqua-green satin.
On the same night there was a large
private dance at the home of Mrs. R. S.
Thomson, Kensington Gardens, given
for daughter Meg, who, instead of com-
ing-out', is leaving for a trip overseas
with her parents. Dancing was in a
large marquee on the tennis lawn, and
the floral decorations were gladioli,
roses, carnations and lupins. Supper
was served in the dining-room, the color
scheme on the table being pink in flowers
and candles. The hostess was gowned
in black lace fitting to the figure, with
a shoulder spray of red and amber rose.
Meg Thomson wore a pretty frock of
pale-blue chiffon flowered in pink roses,
made on clinging lines.
Mrs. Cecil Roscoe, who is visiting
Adelaide for the centenary celebrations,
came from England in 1934 with her
husband Captain Roscoe, who was on a
special mission. She arrived in the Nar-
kunda, and will return to England in
the same boat. On the way out Mrs.
Roscoe painted a portrait of Sir Harry
Lauder.
The dance at Wykeham College,
Belair, was a great success, especially as
it was delightfully cool in the hills after
a hot day. Mrs. Hutchinson, the head-
master’s wife, received in black chiffon
velvet, with a jade necklace. Supper
was served in the college dining-room.
Mrs. Ronald Angas, whose son is at the
college, was a graceful figure in cream-
flowered chiffon. The Ely twins were
frocked alike in flowing white chiffon,
with belts of gold.
Such a full programme is arranged for
visitors in this centenary year that the
only way the Lord Mayor can work in
a civic welcome is to snatch them out
of the express on arrival. This accounts
for the numerous morning-teas at the
Town Hall. At one the J. J. Wignalls
were guests—he is Mayor of Hobart.
Mr. Wignall said it was his first visit to
Adelaide, and he thought it was wonder-
ful to see so many people present on
washing-day.
At Port Adelaide races Lady Dugan
wore a smart mist-blue linen suit with
a blouse of navy silk, and a wide-
brimmed navy straw hat banded with
pale blue. Mrs. A. V. Benson’s black
marocain was dotted with white, and her
small black straw hat had a large white
organdie rose in the front. Spots were
popular, Mrs. Roy Burston favored a
black with white coin spots and a white
straw hat with band.
TASMANIA.
The Launceston executive of the Vic-
toria League staged its at-home and
gala at the Brisbane Hotel, and made a
big success of it. Roses, delphiniums and
heaps of other lovely blooms made the
Palm Court a mass of color. Mayor
and Mayoress Von Bibra sang their
official swan song at this show. The
Jones lady and Mrs. T. H. Goddard were
official representatives from Hobart.
Mrs. H. Gladman and Winnie Monds
were joint secs.
The Governor and Lady Clark were
at’ the, christening of the Major T. H.
Davies’ brand-new son and heir. His
Ex. and the Ayorney-General (E. J.
Ogilvie) stood as godfathers, and at the
Brisbane Hotel, Launceston, there was
a little ceremony over the event.
The Frank Warland Brownes suc-
ceed the Von Bibras as Mayor and
Mayoress of Launceston.
Welcome-home functions in honor of
Mrs. C. Davies after her trip abroad
have taken various forms. Among host-
esses of last week were Mrs. W. W.
Giblin, who gave a dinner-party at the
Queen Mary Club (Mrs. Davies has
been hon. sec. to the club for years),
Mrs. Curtin, who gave a tea-party, and
several members of a bridge club to
which Mrs. Davies belongs, who dined
her at Hadley’s.
The district Naval Officer (Lieut.-Com.
Ramage), members of the R.A.N.
Reserve Officers’ mess gave an at-home
at the Barracks, where guns made part
of the furbishings. Mrs. Ramaga was in
pale tinted floral chiffon; Mrs. E. M.
Williams (wife of the Military Com-
mandant) wore blue.
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
have gone to Adelaide for the centenary
celebrations. They are guests of the
Adelaide City Council.
“Dark Brother,” winner of the second
prize in S.A.’s centenary drama competi-
tion, is not straight history like Max
Afford’s play. It deals vehemently with
the half-caste problem, and its text is the
bitter cry of the hero, “The whites never
accept us, and the blacks don’t trust us.
There is no place for us between the
two.” Agnes Dobson, accustomed to the
stage from infancy and now settled in
Adelaide, is the author. She produced it
for three nights, with an amateur cast.
* * * *
“Convention”: Why don’t cartoon-
ists search their brains for substitutes for
the eternal lion and kangaroo as per-
sonifying England and Australia, which
have been done to death since the
’seventies. The lion is particularly ob-
jected to, as the animal is really the badge
of Scotland, that of England being a
leopard in strict heraldry. In any case
the beast has become a bore and even
the substitution of a badger or some
other typical home-grown beast instead
of one imported from Africa would be
welcomed. The cartoonists’ kangaroo is
ah offence against Nature. Not once
in a thousand attempts is the beast
drawn correctly, and his anatomy does
not in the least lend itself to the por-
trayal of a cricketer. Why not the wily
and courageous goanna, which closely
resembles in countenance at least one
famous Australian player? The koala,
dingo and other products of the soil
would lend themselves better to the
pencil than the kangaroo. Lastly there
is the bunyip, and this would give aspir-
ing artists a chance of striking out some-
thing new and original, since no one
knows what the thing is like.


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve 44 8A8Y GRAND" All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Rola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Raunch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
\>
I X. 'M
RADIO KES
VI BRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
se t- £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW,
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6 ; 224, 4/6-
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
J ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
-SO.UX
Q
Mica Fixed
Condensers
Used in the “Bulletin’s”
sets and by 27 manu-
facturers.
Yours will be a better
set if you demand
IMPEX.
IMPJEX, LTD., Abbotsford, Vic., and
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
The wildest piece of optimism heard
last week was a B-station announcer
wishing a happy Christmas “to any other
announcers who might be listening-in!”
The most astonishing performer was
one who, on a trial night at one of the
nationals, gave imitations of a cornet
playing “Your Eyes Have Told Me So,”
a banjo-mandolin playing “Silver
Threads Among the Gold” and a
euphonium playing “Roses of Picardy.”
The contraption he did all this with was
his mouth. Some people have remark-
able gifts.
Crooners, kids’ serials and popular
talks thrown in, the most dismal broad-
casting of the week was Monday morn-
ing’s issue of the Test. It began with
the gruesome tidings that late on the
previous Saturday an umpire had stuck
his finger into the pitch to test it—“ Like
trying out a Christmas pudding,” said the
announcer, ominously. Meanwhile, there
had been Sunday night’s rain, and the
pitch, one ghoul anticipated, would be
like a gluepot. Another felt it would be
doughy (like the pud.). Another, with
a fine touch of imagery, expected a like-
ness to flypaper.
Turned it on apparently half a minute
late, to hear: “Bradman’s now taking
his stance at the wicket. Bradman’s out.
McCabe will be the next batsman.”
McCabe lasted long enough to score
none —three for one, and that one, it
was rather wantonly suggested, a bit of
a fluke. Nothing more saddening than
the next twenty-five minutes has come
over the air since the Melbourne racing
announcer’s “Young Crusader has shot
his bolt” in the last Melbourne Cup.
O’Reilly, remembering his Christmas
shopping, helped himself to £l5 in three
swipes, but the rest evidently being in
funds and not needing any schnapps,
Schweppes or underpants, all were out
for 80. 'A horrible business to listen to,
and may it never be repeated.
Nothing brighter in the week—and
this might go for any week—than the
chap who does the first two hours of
the morning for 2BL. What his brother
announcers of the nationals are now like
this listener has not yet found the cour-
age to test out, but certainly he’s a re-
markable improvement on announcing
in general as done a year or so back.
His staple is the brighter sort of re-
corded items, with bits about such things
as the weather and the wicket —and the
time: “It’s just half-past seven. Time
for a —ah, no you don’t! I’ve been on
the carpet for that sort of thing before! ”
He. has Great Thoughts—the kind that
make people say “Ah!” and want to
hang them (the Thoughts) up in the bath-
room. This makes a judicious appeal to
sentiment, roping in those his freer stock
of humor might miss, though it’s unlikely
there could be many of these, for his
humor’s of a variety that appeals widely.
It embraces his Bright Thought—that
a bachelor is a man who has missed the
opportunity to make some woman
snappy; or what makes married men
bad-tempered is married women ; or the.
easiest weeds to kill are widow’s weeds—
you have only to say “Wilt thou?” and
they wilt. Better still, his presentation of
records—usually, next to weather, the
most perfunctory thing in broadcasting.
Example: “Paul Whiteman’s orchestra
has a question to ask you—a very per-
tinent question at this time of the year—
‘Are You Making Any Money?”’ Or
he does it' at the end: a chap warbling
a wish to see, way out in the blue, blue,
blue, ladies who go “40 round the hip-
popotamus,” with, after the record, the
astonished comment, “H’m. It’s won-
derful how he gets away with it!” and
the intimation that he himself could do
that sort of thing, but he has a large
wife and a small family, so perhaps he’d
better “remember his A.8.C.” Even news
—usually a dashed doleful business—is
grist to him. A while back, when the
Brisbane Test was at its worst and cer-
tain other things were going on else-
where, he mentioned, apropos of Mrs.
Simpson, that “her position is reported
to be nerve-racking and untenable. We
“Any good , ma? They're goin ' to broadcast the Gilbert and Sullivan
fight.”
will now turn to the cricket. The posi-
tion here is also nerve-racking and un-
tenable.” On the “news” item that some
American wiseacre had forecast the end
of the world in February his comment
was to the effect that the forecast indi-
cated that 2BL or not 2BL would soon
be decided.
He’s competent to give some such
twist to the dullest items ; but quips are
not the secret of his session being one
of the brightest anywhere on the Aus-
tralian air. His real strength is a quality
of voice. Some quite good singers, many
really good speakers come over the air
wretchedly. It isn’t that' they haven’t
good voices ; it’s that their voices haven’t
good character. Pitch, modulation, enun-
ciation and the rest of it can be quite
all right, and the voices still fail. One
day singers and speakers, even on
records, will be given preference for this
curious kind of character in broadcast-
ing. The voice under discussion has a
sunny quality; it’s something bright and
lively on its own account, no matter
what it’s saying. It’s a naturally cheer-
ful sort of voice, with an infectious brac-
ing sound about it. There’s such an un-
questionable sparkle in it that it would
be out of place at night-time. It belongs
to the morning.
Above all his other singularities he’ll
cheerfully stop and take off a record that
doesn’t appeal to him.
Vance Palmer talking from 2BL about
Australian writers abroad, evidently one
of a series by him. Interesting stuff, too,
and Mr Palmer a sound and vigorous
critic, but the voice very unlike his own.
A striking example of the odd tricks the
mike can play with a voice ; or it might
be only that this is the voice he keeps
for reading with. The broadcast, stag-
geringly enough, was not on a Friday
night but on a Sunday night! If this
sort of thing goes on Literature, will
become a serious rival to Pigs in the
broadcasting people's estimate of the
importance of things.
All Round the Dial.
“Exdig”: According to a cable British
troops engaged in quelling some trouble,
engineered by a fakir named Ipi in the
Khaisora Valley (India) were more in-
terested in the ball-for-ball broadcast of
the second Test match than in Ipi. They
listened in the intervals of dodging the
bullets of stray snipers, and one can
imagine, after a sortie ordered to clear
the snipers from their fastnesses, a re-
turning Tommy demanding: “Eh, matey,
is ’Ammond aht yet?” This sort of
thing may be a regular part of the next
war. It would have been a godsend to
Diggers lying in dreary inactivity in
dugouts in France if they could have
heard descriptions of such things as
wrestling matches, Melbourne football
finals and other peaceful pursuits.
* *■ * *
“Convict 99”: Time was when Boggo
Road (Q.) was regarded as a rough and
ready clink. It had an unpleasant-look-
ing gallows with capacity for about a
dozen clients, and its cells were not con-
sidered really attractive. Ted Theodore
and his successors did away with the
gallows and cells have been made such
that any defaulting bank clerk will be
at home in them. Now an 11-valve
radio set has been installed, and instead
of lights being put out at eight they are
to be left on till nine so that internees
may be “educated and entertained.” Of
course the cynic has it that if a few
years of this treatment doesn’t teach the
burglar to eschew his evil ways, nothing
will.
* * * H=
“M.C.”: There always was a fair-
enough hearing in London for Austra-
lians who had the goods to deliver; they
seem to be getting it now in broadcast-
ing as they used to on the stage. One
is Angela Parselles, who got used to the
footlights at Sydney’s old Opera House
—where anything but opera decked the
bills —and who broadcast a good deal in
Australia before she went abroad. Others
are Marjorie Steddford, rated among
8.8. C. top-liners, and Anona Winn. An-
other of them has lately been heard back
on the Australian national circuit—
Marie Nyman, a Sydneysider who has
been a 8.8. C. variety star, with broad-
casting appearances also at Edinburgh
and Paris. She used to be in Fullers’
revues and the Tivoli Follies here, and
played lead in “Whoopee.” After her
round with the A.B.C. she goes on to
fill a broadcasting contract at Los
Angeles.
* * * *
According to A.B.C. publicity reckon-
ing, Essie Ackland now ranks next to
Peter Dawson among Australian artists
whose gramophone records are best-
sellers. Sydney-born, and with another
Sydneysider—baritone Reginald Mor-
phem—for husband, the singer is an
A.B.C. tourer for 1937, arriving in March
and giving concerts in all States.
* # * *
“D.8.K.”: Recently at Mount Wilson
Observatory (U.S.A.) a sudden gas erup-
tion was noted on the sun, and coinci-
dent with this all short-wave signals dis-
appeared for about 15 minutes. Investi-
gation showed that the signal disappear-
ance took place over that part of the
earth which was in sunlight at the time.
This is claimed to be the first direct
evidence linking signal variations with
gas eruptions on the sun. Apparently if
the sun developed a continuous eruption
it would be good-night not only to short
waves but to radio generally.
* $ * *
The original mast that held Marconi’s,
aerials during initial experiments in the
Isle of Wight is still in commission. It
stands on the top of Radio House in
London’s West End, and carries a tele-
vision receiving aerial and a Union Jack
at the gaff. The mast formerly stood in
the grounds of the Ro>al
Needles Hotel, and was trans-
ferred to Niton, a few miles
distant. Used in this location
for a feto years, it was re-
duced from 160 ft. to 60ft. in
length. It was eventually
bought by the Marconiphone
Cos.
* * *
“Thunderclap”: In mid-
summer when electrical storms
are at their worst many radio
users with external aerial sys-
tems towering over the home
look fearfully at the skies, and
wonder if the elevated wire is
an attraction to lightning. A
little thought should dispel any
such fears. There are miles
of overhead power cables and
telephone lines strung through every
populated centre, but it’s rarely these
are seriously damaged. Electrical re-
search workers in recent years have
been able to duplicate lightning dis-
charges in the laboratory. Tests with
models of houses, telegraph poles
carrying wires, etc., show that where
there is a metal conductor above the
object it is wished to protect, the wiring
takes the brunt of the discharge. An
external aerial may be looked upon as
a safeguard to a home, particularly if
it is efficiently earthed. A copper wire
has relatively low resistance and will
quickly leak away an accumulated
charge. Trees are struck because they are
full of moisture and have a fairly high
resistance. The electrical charge striking
a tree turns the moisture, owing to the
great heat, into steam, and causes an
explosion. Why the imprint of leaves,
etc., should often be found “photo-
graphed” on the bodies of people who
have been near trees during* a lightning
storm remains a mystery.


é
AW
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
For Local or Overseas programmes there is a
Radiotron to suit every requirement. Built to the highest
standards their world-wide reputation for better perform-
ance and longer life is your guarantee of satisfaction.
RABIOlRnHS
(Advertisement ot Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE
Series Plate Modulation with Voice-controlled Carrier.
Series modulation is not a new system.
Employed with success in broadcast
stations for years, it claims greater
fidelity than the Heising system, not re-
quiring a modulation choke or trans-
former, which is difficult to design with
high fidelity. When using series modu-
lation the frequency response is better
and the cost of the modulation system
cheaper.
The modulator functions as a variable
resistance, so increasing and decreasing
the plate voltage on the P.A. valve. The
voltage required for series modulation
must be greater than with the Heising
system to obtain the same modulated
output, using the same valves ; however,
there is no separate supply of current
needed for the modulator. As the modu-
lator functions Class A it is supplied by
audio voltage, not power. The voltage
across the modulator (between plate and
cathode) and grid-bias voltage are deter-
mined by the normal Class A operating
characteristics of the modulator. For
100 p.c. modulation the D.C. resistance
of the P.A. must be about two-thirds less
than that of the modulator.
Consider a 50 modulating a 10 P.A.
Normally the 50 operates at 450 plate
volts, with —B4 volts grid bias; under
these conditions it draws 55ma. The 10
must have a less resistance than the 50 ;
suppose it draws 55ma. at 350 volts. The
two are in series, so that a total voltage
of 800 is needed. Under these condi-
tions the modulated power input will be
about 19 watts and the power dissipated
in the modulator about 25 watts. Of
course, the 10 must be operated Class C,
but remember that the voltage across
the 10 is only 350 volts (twice cut-off
=9O volts). In adjusting the P.A. the
modulator is shorted out, and it is advis-
able to use a lower voltage during the
tuning process. Excitation and antenna
coupling are adjusted so that the 10 draws
60ma. to 70ma. at 400 plate volts. The
switch shorting the modulator is opened
and the voltage raised to about 800,
when the plate current should be about
55-60 ma.
During modulation the plate current
should not vary appreciably. If there is
not sufficient depth of modulation either
the D.C. resistance of the 10 should be
decreased or the audio drive to the 50
increased. The 50 and 10 must have
separate filament supplies.
Next must be considered a system of
carrier control, which is very simply ap-
plied to a series modulated system. This
circuit for carrier control is a distinct
advantage over the usual arrangement of
the control valve in the plate circuit of
the buffer. With the latter method the
modulating impedance of the P.A. is
altered; but with this system the control is
placed in the modulator, and excitation
to the P.A. is not varied. Extra gear
required for this voice-controlled carrier
system is one valve (27 or 56) socket, two
pentiometers, a resistor a.nd two fixed
condensers.
With no modulation, approx, cut-off
bias is applied to the modulator, and
when modulating fully the bias decreases
to normal value. A 27 is used as a con-
trol valve. By dividing the total voltage,
800, by the amp. factor of the 50, 3.8,
approx. 210 volts bias, needed for cut-
off, is obtained.
Then about 30 volts
bias is needed for
cut-off for the 27.
These two bias
voltages are ob-
tained from the
same supply, with
a 25,000-ohm V.D.
and 5000-ohm pot.
In practice, it will
be found that.com-
plete cut-off can-
not be obtained,
but a sufficiently
low value of plate
current will do.
With the P.A.
adjusted for C.W.
(modulator shorted
out), the switch is
opened and V 1 and
V 2 both increased
to maximum volt-
age. If there is
enough bias the
currents through
the 10 and 27
valves should be
near zero. De-
crease the voltage
V 2 until the plate
current of the 10
begins to rise. Leave V 2 at this
point. Decrease VI until current through
the 27 begins to rise (jack in circuit for
this purpose). VI should be fixed at
this value, but if constant carrier is de-
sired V 1 should be decreased further until
plate current of 10 is normal (55ma.).
In this position bias on 50 should be
around -84 volts. With control A set
at a minimum, modulation is adjusted on
constant carrier to approx. 100 p.c. VI
is then increased to cut-off for 27 ; now,
with audio drive the same as before,
adjust control A until plate current of
10 rises to about 60ma. on peaks. If
control A is set too high, undermodu-
lation may result, but if too low over-
modulation with distortion will be
caused. Adjustments are not critical.
Carrier cut-off is very complete, and on
test carrier without modulation was R 3
and on modulation R 7-8.
The advantages of voice-controlled
carrier are that less interference is caused
to others, duplex working is easier, there
is 100 p.c. modulation at all audio levels
and less valve heating.
R. L. D. (VK2ON.)
High Voltage Measurements.
Where an experimenter or constructor
desires to determine exactly the voltage
of a plate supply
system in a trans-
mitter or other
similar apparatus,
and a high-range
D.C. voltmeter is
not available, the
computation can
be made with the
aid of a D.C. mil-
liameter. A closed
circuit jack is wired
in series with the
negative end of the
bleeder resistor and
the milliameter is
plugged in to read
the current flow-
ing through the re-
sistor. With the
bleeder resistance
and the current
flowing through it
known, the voltage
can be determined
by Ohm’s Law: E
equals R times I.
For example, a
20,000-ohm bleeder
multiplied by a
bleeder current of
0.030 ampere
shows a voltage of
600. The negative
side of the power
supply should, of
course, be earthed,
and the power
supply should be switched off when in-
serting or removing the meter plug.
Clickless Keying.
Holders of experimental transmitter
licenses in Australia must serve a pro-
bationary period in telegraphy on the
Key-click filter legend: RFC, R.F.
chokes; Rl, 1500-ohm 3-watt resistor;
R2, 100,000-ohm 3-watt resistor; C,
5mfd. condenser; T, filament trans-
former.
various bands before being permitted to
use telephony. The newcomer to the
short-wave telegraphic business soon
discovers that “key-clicks”—unwanted
sounds appearing in near-by broadcast
receivers—can lead to trouble with the
radio inspector. There are several ways
of tackling the “click” or “thump” prob-
lem, and text-books for amateurs deal
with them. One of the most certain
methods is the use of keying valves
(where one or more can be used, accord-
ing to the load) to serve as a form of
keying relay in the centre-tap filament
return of a buffer or final stage.
The most common valve recommended
has been the type 45, because of its low
plate resistance. This valve, however, is
not capable of handling much current,
and it becomes necessary to parallel two
or more to provide the necessary current-
carrying capacity.
In the U.S.A., the well-known 82-type
mercury vapor rectifier (available on the
Sydney market at a . next-to-nothing
price) does the job, The circuit diagram
shows a method of using the 82 as a
keying valve. One of these valves will
handle currents up to 125 milliamperes ;
an 83 will handle up to 250 milliamperes,
and two 83’s half an ampere. The lower
What can be done with timber and shelves. An experimental
transmitter built in particularly accessible form. Power
supplies are in the lower shelf, with crystal oscillator,
doublers and buffer in the middle and final amplifier on
the top.
plate resistance of such valves eliminates
the undesirable voltage drop in the plate
circuit of the keyed valve, which has
been one snag when using the 45. Any
of the common vacuum tube keying cir-
cuits may be used with the 82 or 83
type rectifier, using one of the rectifier
plates as a grid.
Key clicks are considerably reduced by
using keying
valves; if clicks
are to be entirely
eliminated —even in
the station receiver
tuned to the trans-
mitter frequency--
it is easily done by
means of a radio
frequency choke
and condenser-
resistor combina-
tion filter as in the diagram. Description
of American methods is taken from
Howard S. Pyle’s Practical Amateur
Radio Transmitter Designs.
D. B. K.
Amateur Radio Chatter.
An instance of how the unexpected
may occur when dealing with the 5-metre
band is a report to hand that several
Sydney stations are heard regularly by a
listener at Austinmer, N.S.W. South
Coast, with VK2NO the strongest. Aus-
tinmer lies on sea level, and one or two
mountain ranges intervene between it
o Continued on page 50.)


as this pair had fought up to. this round,
but in this they beat all records, each
landing hard and heavily. At one
moment it was Slavin’s call, the next it
was a million to one on Jackson. The
latter made great use of his right hand,
more than once sending Paddy silly for
a second or two by thumping him with
that useful member fair on the jaw. The
whole of this round was a succession of
brilliant rallies worthy of the cyclone
Goddard. As they made for their chairs
both were trembling in every limb, so
fierce had been the fray. No man whom
Jackson has ever fought landed on hifn
as Slavin did, and never did Peter put
his right on any man as he did on the
Maitland rnan.
Round 7.—Slavin came up from his
corner with a look of grim resolution
on his face. Peter led hard at the head,
Paddy dodged and drove his left fair on
the face. -Again he repeated the per-
formance ; then he slipped close up and
tried his famous right punch under the
heart that has settled so many men. His
foe knew it, and the way he managed
to avoid by leaping back or by quickly
screwing his supple body round was a
revelation.
Slavin made a big effort and swung
for the jaw. Peter watched him keenly
and, stepping right' in, with his woolly
head curled under his shoulder blade,
he crossed the white man fair on the jaw.
Slavin was mighty near down. Jackson
went for him then as a butcher’s dog
goes for a pet poodle, and only a Slavin
or a Goddard could have withstood that
fiery onslaught. But there is no cur’s
blood in Slavin’s veins. The men stood
up grimly, gamely, and fought as men
fight when all they hold dear is at stake.
The pair fought the round out in a
fashion that beggars all powers of de-
scription. The great assembly of aristo-
crats went fairly mad with excitement,
and the din was fearful. But above the
roar of voices one could hear the dull
thud, thud , of the giants’ blows as they
fell on face and body. Now Peter reels,
gasping, weakening, shattered, his mouth
wide open, gasping for air, his breath
coming in sobs. Paddy springs in on
him, and the din of the crowd grows
still. Will he win? Will the negro come
again? ' .
Bang, bash! Jackson is on the ropes
and Slavin must win! Thud, full in the
mouth! Peter’s long left has landed.
With a half-growl, half-roar, the mighty
son of Africa is on top of his man.
So the tide of battle ebbed and flowed,
the . men showing the agony they were
in by their facial expression. Never in
my life have I seen two men fight more
fairly than these two gladiators. Well
might Australia be proud of them both!
Each made the effort of his life, and
each made it manfully. It was pluck
against pluck, skill against skill, as, they
stood toe to toe and strained for victory.
Round 8 —As the staghound drives
the kangaroo before him, so did Jackson
drive the white fellow during the first
minute of this round. - One of Slavin’s
eyes was closed and his mouth looked
like a poem badly punctuated. But his
heart was solid, and, stemming the tide of
defeat, he fought Jackson back into his
own corner, out of that, all round the
ring. He got home on the belly, on the
neck, head and face ; and, at last, right in
Africa’s corner, Slavin landed on the
jaw. A yell arose that must have made
Covent Garden shake again as Peter’s left
knee bent under him and he all but fell.
But the negro was as game as the
white man. In a second he rallied, and,
as Slavin came on with a furious on-
slaught, Jackson met him, fought him
blow for blow, and in that minute proved
that neither Sullivan nor Sayers nor
any man that ever entered a ring ever
owned a gamer, braver heart. One
moment of weakening, one glimpse of the
yellow streak, and Jackson’s lamp would
have gone out for ever in front of the
human tiger that was at him. But did
he falter? Not so, my masters; the
white flag did not show, because it does
not exist in Jackson’s heart.
Round 9 —Like a man who feels that
his strength is going fast, Slavin bounded
from his corner to make a supreme
effort. 1 Jackson seemed to crouch to
half his height; his left foot slid out
far in advance of his body, and then he
dodged the rush cleverly. Again he did
the same queer panther-like crouch’,
again Slavin darted at him. All at once
Jackson quivered from head to heel;
his whole body launched forward like
the head of a serpent.as it strikes; his
left hand fell with a crash fair on the
white man’s brow.
Again , Slavin charged in, ducking as
he came. Jackson again shot out his
left, this time full in the pit of the stom-
ach. Before the white man could re-
cover Jackson landed hard and square
on-the point of the chin;-and Slavin’s
last hope had fled. But he was made
of such stern stuff that he could not qfii-t..
On he came, again and yet again, trying
vainly for a knock-out punch with his
right.
Round 10 and Last. —Slavin came out
of his corner as resolutely as if his knees
were not trembling under him and his*
sight almost gone. Jackson sprang at
him, for he knew that his old enemy was
surely delivered into his hand. The black
fairly glided across the ring. All his
strength seemed to return to him as he
saw the longed-for prize of his life fairly
within his grasp. With a quick move-
ment he was on the blind side of Slavin
and his right fell, fair on the point.
Slavin’s chin sank on his chest. His
arms dropped loosely to his side. Once
more the mighty negro measured him ;
crash, right on the jaw came the right
again. Paddy, blundered forward, his
knees doubled under him, as a bull’s
when wounded to the death; but the
instinctive pluck of his southern blood
did not let him yield.
A cry of wonder rang from a thou-
sand British throats as Slavin pulled him-
self up feebly and, lifting his arm, struck
at his foe. So helpless was the effort
that as he struck blindly so he fell. To
the everlasting honor of Peter Jackson
be it recorded that, instead of striking
the beaten man, he opened his brawny
arms and caught him and held him from
falling to the floor.
Even then Slavin tried to struggle away
and lift his arms for a blow. Jackson
turned and made a mute but eloquent
appeal to the referee which was un-
heeded. He tried to push Slavin to the
floor,-for he knew that the white could
npt rise again if once he fell.
Slavin clutched the ropes with one
hand and dried, to continue the fight.
“Fight on,” was the order. Then, as he
could do nothing else, Jackson smashed
his blows on body and jaw.
So stubborn was the grit of Slavin that
I, and many another present, thought he
would have to be killed before he would
fall. At last he dropped, face-down 4
wards, by the ropes, a senseless, battered
wreck, and Jackson was hailed the
champion of the world.
The men fought with marvellous fair-
ness, and their bravery was only excelled
by their manliness.
The Long White Cloud
"Cluny”: If a few more Maoriland
local bodies reject the offer of Govern-
ment money at 3 p.c. for local housing
schemes, Prime Minister Savage will be
sharpening Labor’s legislative axe. He
has warned them,that the Governmem
will not allow “local-body conservatism
to be an obstacle, to progress”they
must “catch the spirit of the new Admini-
stration.” Labor has a bill on the stocks
which provides for the termination or
amalgamation of “unnecessary” local
bodies; among next session's casualties
there are bound to be a few of the
conservative local bodies who have re-
jected Government employment sugges-
tions on the grounds of expense.
* * * *
“Mak”: An American book on motor
accidents calculates that 36,000 lives
might be saved in- the United States
every year if nobody would drive more
than 20 miles an hour; Maoriland
motorists should keep it away from
Minister Semple, who has a contem-
plative eye on speed-limit by-laws. A
survey of Auckland and Wellington dis-
tricts revealed more than 60 different
local limits, so. there is room for reform.
A few years ago a naval officer with
speed in his blood motored from Auck-
land to Wellington and won the largest
sheaf of summonses in M.L. road
history; he shattered local restrictions
with more freedom than the average
driver. But nearly every M.L. hamlet
is a trap for the unwary. It is little use
owning a car if it can’t be kept moving,
and even the 30 m.p.h. limit suggested
by the N.S.W. Road Safety Conference
has been attacked as “archaic” and a
breeder of friction between traffic offi-
cers and the travelling public. But if
there have to be restrictions they should
not vary from town to town as they do
along Maoriland’s main highways.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: The migration of Gisborne
sheep to northern districts (B. 16/12/’36)
began earlier than usual this year. More
than 20,000 Poverty Bay jumbucks were
on the road to the Waikato before the
end of November, and - thousands more
will have crossed the Motu to Taneatua
this month. Last summer Poverty Bay
owners sent more than 300,000 sheep to
other parts of Maoriland.
* # * *
“Kohi”: The wild pigs hunted down
on Poor Knights Islands, off Cape Brett
(B. 23/12/’36), were pure-blooded des-
cendants of those given the Maoris by
Captain Cook. Between 1816 and 1819
the Maori inhabitants were massacred
by tribal enemies, and the islands have
been deserted by human residents for
more than a century. The last party
found only 10 of the Cookers; they
were of almost pure Berkshire type, with
longer hair and snouts than the domesti-
cated breed. Wild pigs in the mainland
back-country have also developed the
phenomenally long snout that comes
with generations of bush rooting.
* * * *
“Fergus”: A Maoriland Duncan was
at Flemington when Wotan carried off
the Melbourne Cup ; for a rabbiter em-
ployed on one of the Duncan properties
back home, the same race won a £50,000
prize—and lost the Duncans a good
rabbiter. Part of the windfall estab-
lished a Masterton couple in business,
and now the winner is off to the Corona-
tion with another friend. The Boer War
and the 1914-18 scrap—he left an
American job to get into it with the
Cheshires, in which he won a commis-
“Fancy findin' YOU here. Thought you Were one of those stay-at-home
girls.”
“So I am. Stay at ANYONE’S home.”
sion—equipped the Maorilander for rab-
biting through a personal depression it
took a Wotan to end. Since Cup-day he
has had begging letters it would take
£150,000 to satisfy—and he answered
them all! The signature was Walter
Devon.
* * * *
“Motu”: One of Maoriland’s refresh-
ingly vigorous Labor politicians has
figured in a novel act in Auckland.
W. J. Lyon, member for Waitemata,
objected to milk from North Shore
farmers being diverted to a city firm
which had extended its interests across
the harbor. A float with the lettering
“W. J. Lyon, M.P., Milk Vendor Under
Protest” was being prepared for Mon-
day deliveries with a view to legal pro-
ceedings when the other side capitulated.
Backed by his Parliamentary yodelling
experience, Mr. Lyon would have kept
his opposition stepping.
* «: * *
“Hutuwai”: Christchurch is still in a
bother over the James Edward Fitz-
Gerald statue (B. 18/11 /’36). A prudish
city council changed its mind and de-
clined the gift. By agreement with the
donor, the sculptor gets no money until
the statue is erected. He is naturally
annoyed, the more so because he is still
paying storage. Further, there are
quarrels on the question of a suitable
site. The memory of clear-thinking Fitz-
Gerald, Canterbury’s first superinten-
dent, one of the greatest orators Maori-
land has had, deserves a better fate than
months of petty bickering.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Sooling one imported bug
on to another has become a popular
. Australian and Maoriland practice. One
of the latest is the Chilean sawfly intro-
duced by Maoriland. to tackle bidi-bidi,
a weed whose seed has been a curse to
;a generation of woolgrowers. The South
American insect has a liking for the
hutuwai weed, and observation colonies
have been established at Wanganui and
Eltham. Now in the caterpillar stage,
the sawflies are reported to be attack-
ing bidi-bidi with zest; what they go
for when they grow their wings only the
Cawthron Institute knows.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Overseas as well as internal
air services are being well supported by
Maoriland business (B. 23/12/’36). Ex-
cept for May, 1935, when stamp fiends
rushed the jubilee air mail, monthly
totals through 1936 have been higher
than last year’s postings for the Aus-
tralia-England air service. October, with
nearly 22,000 letters for Cootamundra’s
Wednesday ’planes, holds the present
monthly record over the two-year period,
but December mail is expected to top
that figure. Under existing services,
Maoriland is 17 days from London —
when the time-table is maintained. With
a 12-hour. Tasman crossing, that time
would be reduced by four days—and
more Maoriland business would be
attracted.


Sts
lys
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
Fencing Wire
tmm
m
0®
mm
a&i
m:
-
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO SIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Fat-lamb Breeding.
“Sheepo”: At present graziers are un-
able to meet the demand for crossbred
ewes as mothers of fat lambs (B.
2/12/’36). Recently Victorian and N. S.
Wales buyers have been searching for
such ewes in the Riverina, and any offer-
ings have been eagerly snapped up at
high prices. But requirements couldn’t be
met —not of really good first-cross ewes.
Breeders want size—the right size—in
lambs, but conformation, trueness to type
and evenness are all-important. This
can’t be had if crossbred ewes of doubt-
ful origin are used.
Corriedale ewes are ideal fat-lamb
mothers, and so are Polwarth ewes ; but,
with wool values of both these breeds
little behind merinos, owners are loath
to sell. At the Geelong sales recently
Polwarth fleece realised up to 30-}d. per
pound, and top lines of several Poj-
warth clips made over 27d. per pound.
There is no danger of a slump in fat-
lamb values as long as breeders use pure-
bred sires and pure-bred, plain-bodied
merino, Polwarth or Corriedale ewes, or
nothing further removed than the second
cross.
With lamb values at the present rate
the urge is to breed from anything and
everything. But quality should be the
watchword.
Dingo Losses.
“Ghanam”: Colin Chisholm, of Khan-
coban, Monaro (N.S.W.), reports that
during the year dingoes killed 1000 head
of his sheep, and another snow-country
man lost 500. Altogether, round the
Victorian-N.S.W. border hills the toll
for the year is reckoned at about 5000.
The local Dingo Destruction Board
has eight men employed on a wage, plus
a bonus of £3 per dog ; but, because of
the roughness of the country and the in-
clemency of the weather, it isn’t easy to
hunt down the marauders. Poison would
be the best bet, but cattle- and sheep-
dogs are too valuable to risk. The gun
and trap are slow work, since the local
dingo, mostly an extra-cunning half-
breed, does not hunt in packs.
Any sportsman who fancies pitting his
bushcraft against the cleverest of Aus-
tralian wild animals will find capital
sport to test him in the snow mountains
round the Monaro edges. He can be
assured of a hearty welcome from the
population.
How to Treat Weaners.
“Granova”: If lambs are to grow
into robust sheep particular care must
be taken of them from weaning to the
time they become two-tooths.
Save a good paddock for them to go
into when they are taken from their
mothers. Short grasses and clovers are
suitable for weaners. Put ewes on bulky
feed, such as grazing oats.
Long grass may mean trouble with
pink-eye ; if this shows up, muster and
treat all the sheep. A good mixture to
use is a dessertspoon of zinc sulphate in
|pt. of boiled water.
In summer put weaners in a paddock
which has a dam handy to feed. They
like to spend most of the day near water.
Wigging should be done when young-
sters are crutched and again about four
months later.
On no account should animals be
allowed to become poor during winter.
This is a frequent cause of worm in-
festation, and it knocks pounds per head
off the wool clip. Many N.S.W. graziers
now put out self-feeders for growing
stock in winter. Four ounces of oats per
head per day in lean periods makes a
great difference.
In the Mallee.
“Bogaduck”: There is only one way
to kill Mallee economically—by scorch-
ing the shoots with a running fire every
year for three consecutive years. Burn-
ing-off the suckers is worse than use-
less ; it encourages better growth. All the
shoots should be still standing after the
fire, but scorched without being actually
“And how long have you been married, Mary ?”
“Oh, long time, missus. Close up twelve munts mine thinkit .”
burned. This produces a poison which
travels down into the roots and greatly
weakens the. next lot of shoots.
In low-rainfall areas this can be
achieved by putting in two crops of wheat
and one of oats ; after each crop is har-
vested the stubble is fire-raked or a run-
ning fire sent through it.
In wetter areas the mallee shoots too
quickly for this method. Settlers on
Kangaroo Island (S.A.) use a modern
tractor drawing a heavy log as a roller
to smash down the scrub, leave
the rolled country to dry out and send
a fire over it in autumn. At the
first seeding rains of winter the
burned country is sown with 61b. Wim-
mera-rye-grass seed per acre and
manured with 1001 b, to 1501 b. super.
per acre, plus 501 b. to 1001 b. sulphate of
ammonia. (Each day’s seed and super,
should be mixed on the morning of the
sowing day, as super, quickly kills seed
fertility.)
The country is then left without a hoof
of stock on it, as every blade of grass
will be needed to carry the running fire
in the following autumn. The land is
given a further top-dressing after the
burn with a little sub. clover seed, and
can then be very lightly stocked. After
the second burn it is again top-dressed,
and can be stocked fairly heavily. After
the third burn the mallee is settled for
good, and the usual annual top-dressing
results in a heavy growth of rye grass
and clover pasture capable of carrying
two to three sheep per acre.
The process is costly, but in the end
it pays..
Skeleton Weed.
“Granova”: Despite efforts of the
Agricultural Department, skeleton weed
is spreading rapidly through the N.S.W.
wheat belt. Some farmers just don’t
bother; others say it “makes good sheep
feed” ; and one hears such comment as:
“I’ve been fighting it for ten years and
never killed a plant.”
The curse makes cultivation impossible,
and valuable land infested by it becomes
only inferior grazing property.
Last year we got a 95 p.c. kill by
making a hole 3in. deep where each plant
stood, placing in it a handful of coarse
salt, filling with water and then covering.
A difficulty with odd plants is that
they are easily overlooked, particularly
in crops. When a paddock is cut for
hay our stookers drop a sheaf on each
plant noticed. When harvesting a bag
is dropped on plants, and the bag-sewer
is sent to treat them. Plants found when
there is no chance to treat them are
pulled up. This destroys a number, and
at least prevents them from seeding.
N.S.W. Wheat Crops.
“Nabawa”: Just completed a five
weeks’ tour of N.S.W. crops, from In-
verell in the north to the Murray. Two
things stand out: The hardiness of the
wheat plant; the futility of haphazard
farming.
The season was erratic everywhere,
particularly in nor’-west, central and
western districts. Good farmers got
good crops. The State yield may be
2,000,000 bushels above the latest official
estimate of 45,000,000. Generally, a
hard, bright, heavy sample of grain is
coming in, with slight touches of pinch-
ing here and there.
In September-October heavy frosts
caused such apparent damage to crops
sadly in need of rain that experts pre-
dicted a minor wheat failure. Same ex-
perts are. now marvelling at the recov-
ery made by affected crops. One man,
Studley, of Colinroobie, probably estab-
lished a precedent by being the first to
burn smudge fires around a wheat crop
to stave off frost. He’s satisfied that fires
saved him six bushels an acre.
Purple patch—a soil fungus that
attacks roots —is spreading in wheat and
oats. Plants become stunted and turn
color. Riverina, northern and central
areas apparently have it worst. Stubble-
sown crops suffered more than those on
fallow, and poorly-worked fallow was
nearly as bad as stubble. It is evident
that the disease thrives when soil mois-
ture is below normal. Lime and sul-
phate of ammonia offer the best means of
control, especially in oats. Departmental
officers are seeking a remedy.
Ford continues to win competitions.
This variety has spread astonishingly and
may soon lead all others in acreage.
Despite recent condemnation by mill-
owners, most growers swear by it. After
all, the average grower wants something
that will fill his bags. He sells his wheat
on f.a.q. standard, not on flour-strength.
Nabawa has lost no friends; Dundee,
and Baringa still flourish, but Bobin
appears to have given some ground. The
old-timers, Waratah, Marshall’s No. 3
and Yandilla King, are hanging to
their places. In drier areas Ranee
and Gurkha are attracting a little atten-
tion. The Westralian Bencubbin is gain-
ing favor, but has yet to prove itself in
N.S.W. In the nor’-west Geeralying is a
great standby for quick growth after
late sowing.
If the dry spring dropped the yield a
few bushels, it ensured cleaner and
healthier crops, root-rots and smuts being
at a minimum.
In the nor’-west the dry spell might
have caused a severe loss had it not
been for a cool change (without rain),
which allowed the wheat to recover. In
the west the change was accompanied
by dews, and again the well-farmed crops
recovered.
The central slopes should produce
beautifully-colored, hard, bright. grain.
Here good judgment at sowing-time
averted later dry weather threats of
damage. Early-sown stood out over
late. Depth of seeding was an impor-
tant factor; those who made sure of
getting the grain down to the moisture
came off best. Frost caused early alarm,
bu: crops recovered well.
In Riverina growers brought off a real
achievement, considering the frost danger
and erratic growing period. Dundee
swept the board. Once again a cool
spell checked wilting and permitted
weakening crops to recover.
On the southern slopes (Albury,
Corowa, etc.) good winter rains coun-
teracted later below-normal spring falls,
and again a cool change was valuable.
Bunt has reappeared in too many
crops. A man who employs others to
do his farming didn’t know what it was.
(Continued on page 44.)


A FITTING COMPANION
FOR THAT NEW SUMMER SUIT.
’"J _ 'HEY sa y that clothes help
to make a man; that may
be or may not be, but we are
certain of one thing, that
Shoes help to make clothes.
See how different your clothes
look when you put on a pair
of these smart Abbey Shoes.
Made in Black or Brown Calf
and stocked in full and half
sizes.
Price, Black or Brown, 29/6
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
è
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
um
cr 1
*
i
WANT
IT
1936
i
A
VS.
it I
'
r rrr
ft
1M<
?T9H
i=f'
The FIRST DEPOSITOR IN
THE FIRST BANK
Sergeant Jeremiah Murphy of the 46th Regi-
ment, was the first depositor in the Bank of
New South Wales. When he lodged liis fifty
pounds he could hardly have imagined that
deposits with this Bank in 1936 would amount
to £89,000,000. Nor would he have visualized
the small office in Macquarie Place being the
forerunner of 782 branches.
Such wide-spread organisation is of great
importance to the community. It enables the
Bank to meet effectively, a financial setback
in one part of the Commonwealth from the
resources of more favoured areas.
Deposits lodged in well established districts are
used to finance producers and traders in less
settled areas.
1817
t
1
k
r
V
m
pSt
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
245 A. 1936
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that w’hieh is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St.j Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
T^ie'^zzlletz/nL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Some blame the travelling pickier and
grader. Whatever the cause, bunt must
be scotched.
Champion wheatgrowers this year,
according to R.A.S. standards, are: J. T.
Donoghue (Ford), Tambar Springs,
North-west; H. Thompson and T. M.
Patton (Baringa), West Wyalong, West;
Sherritt Bros. (Ford), Forbes, Central;
B. J. Studley (Dundee), Colinroobie,
Riverina ; and A. C. Severin (Dundee and
Bobin), Brocklesby, Southern.
Burning the Stubble.
“A.N.S.”: Modern wheat-farming
methods favor burning off shortly after
the stripping is finished, but the stock
should first have the benefit of the few
heads invariably missed by the machine.
Many of the best crops have been grown
on land over which the stubble has been
burned after a good rain. Personally, I
consider that such a burn is as valuable
as, and much cheaper than, a fallow.
A better burn will be obtained when
the stock have trodden the straw to the
ground. There is no danger of the
animals getting too much raw wheat if
anything like a clean job has been made
of the stripping. Spilled wheat, whether
in white head or other form, must be re-
moved.
When ploughing a firebreak round each
paddock less than 20 yards is of little
value, especially if the stubble is thick.
It is best to burn one paddock at a time,
on a day when a steady, sweeping wind
is blowing away from haystacks and
buildings.
A Tribute to Sub. Clover.
“Yeoman” recounts some history:
It is difficult to appraise the indebtedness of
the Commonwealth to Amos William Howard,
of Blakiston (S.A.), who discovered the com-
mercial value of sub. clover. He found it grow-
ing as a weed, and named it Trifolium subter-
ranium, under which name it was first cata-
logued by E. and W. Hachett, seedsmen of
Adelaide, 30 years ago, when Howard intro-
duced a machine for hulling and cleaning his
seed. How its popularity grows is evident in
the fact that, whereas in S.A. only scwt. of the
seed was harvested and cleaned from 10 acres
in 1916-17, 5082 cwt. was taken from 1730 acres
in 1929-30. Since then seed production has
remained stationary, but the acreage of sub.
clover pasture has continued to expand. The
harvesting of the seed is a side issue, but a
profitable one when the price is over 2s. 6d.
a pound.
In Europe sub. clover was regarded as a weed
which grew in poor soils; it had never been
classified. Provided it is generously top-
dressed with superphosphate it will also grow
in poor, hungry soils in Australia where the
annual rainfall is from 18in. up to 40in. If
sown on bracken and fern land and top-dressed
it will gradually exterminate those growths.
The best monument to Howard—who must
rank with Farrer as a benefactor—is to be
found on Kangaroo Island. Most of the island
soil is a cold, hungry, poor-looking white to
yellow sand above sour clay, carrying a stunted
growth of mallee, stringybark, broom, etc. This
poor land, burned off in February and in April
drilled with sub. clover seed and lcwt. to
2cwt. of super., by July is capable of carrying
from one to two sheep per acre. In the second
year of the sub. clover it carries up to six sheep
per acre—that on land previously considered
valueless. Moreover, where there are heavy top-
dressings with super., the sheep eat the new-
growing mallee shoots every year until the
stumps die out.
Housing the Header.
“Win”: I keep the machine in motion
after the cut-out until the last heads have
had time to pass to the box. Then I open
the elevator bottom and increase the
blast to its maximum, thus clearing every
straw out of the system —nothing attracts
rats quicker than straw. The sieves are
then removed and cleaned thoroughly.
Elevators, especially if belt-driven, are
removed and the doors left opened. Rats
will thrive on leather belting and wood-
work.
The wheatbox is cleared thoroughly.
If grain should get damp it becomes sour
and quickly rots the wood.
Invariably there are worn parts that
can be listed for replacement before next
harvest. I find a conspicuous chalk-mark
a reminder and a guide.
An hour is given to tightening nuts. If
not done now, they will rust in a loose
position and be passed over later as tight.
All chain drives I loosen to avoid un-
necessary strain. Also, the comb is lifted
to its highest point, because at that the
strain on the tension spring is at its
lowest. Teeth removed from the comb
are replaced, and false combs are re-
moved or propped up.
Hints for the Farm.
“Lam”: Work is the essence of suc-
cess with lucerne. It pays to give heavier-
type land a light ploughing before put-
ting in seed, with at least three harrow-
ings and a rolling afterwards. Light soils
will do with a ploughing and one hair-
rowing.
“Zamia”: In making up paints, first
mix the white base with linseed oil,
driers and thinners. Mix coloring on a
slab and stir in gradually until the right
tint is reached. When mixture is com-
plete, strain —an old singlet is good toi
this.
“Spud”: To make a success with irri-
gated potatoes the land must be well
worked. Water should be applied and
the soil allowed to dry off just before
ploughing. Plant immediately after this.
Two good waterings should be given
while tubers are young ; later watering
will produce second growth. A point
to keep in mind: Better good tilth and
moderate water than moderate tilth and
too much water. :*
“Ghanam”: Sheep are good cleaners-
up on any farm. They get rid of straw
litter, eat weeds which other animals
won’t touch, help fertilise the land, and
are always a useful killing beast. Coastal
farmers would find that half a dozen
would pay well; even many inland
farmers have yet to learn how sheep can
be profitably run along with wheat.
“Oka”: In feeding banana stalks to
pigs the best plan is to give them the
plants whole as a midday meal. Then
in the evening serve out two pints of
treacle to a kerosene-tin of water ; this
provides a good relish for the day’s end
and stops binding.
“Tamornie”: In Gippsland (Vic.)
“Pappamosca” (B. 9 /12 / ’36) can see
pigs eradicating bracken as he did - in
Sussex and North Surrey (England).
Tight fences confine the pigs, forcing
them to root. Some farmers, after the
pigs have been operating for a time,
broadcast maize and plough it in. In their
search for the grain, the pigs encounter
many small bracken roots and further
assist in clearing the fern out.
“Glenfield” considers crops in the Vic-
torian Mallee after the exceptionally
dry spring:
The tall, fast-growing mulga oat has proved
its value for hay on stubble land, sown on the
grey flats where Algerian oats have failed.
Algerian has done best on the red flats and
sandy rises.
Among wheats sown on fallow, the popular
Gurkha has done best on the sandy rises. Its
quick early growth covers the hills and pre-
vents wind erosion. Naturally a short-strawed
wheat, the dry spell found it heading too close
to the ground on the heavy flats, where earlier-
maturing and taller-strawed varieties, such as
Ranee, Ranee 4H and the promising Bencubbin,
held their own and recovered quickly with the
late October showers.
Though condemned by millers, Free Galli-
poli is a drought-resister and seems to suit
the Mallee.
Crops sown on fallow which had received
dry workings in the previous spring, though
looking well in the early stages, suffered much
more severely during the excessively dry spell
than those sown on fallow which was sheeped
until it became wet enough to be worked.
“Blow” smut is noticeable in the crops of
many good farmers. Perhaps it is due to
seasonal vagaries.
“Prodigal Producer’s” parable of the
Back to Whatsitsname celebrations:
Tom, Dick and Harry were sons of a land-
taking pioneer and inherited his broad acres.
Tom and Dick developed into model farmers.
Harry was more of a sport, let the farm go to
pot, and finally drifted to the adjacent town
and opened a billiard saloon. Harry was a
pioneer in his own way. He introduced s.p.
betting where it wasn’t known before and con-
verted whole families into “regulars.”
Tom and Dick stuck to the land, created new
wealth from raw material, helped keep up the
exports to pay our interest, shouldered a big
ration of taxation and worked as the Backbone
and bullocks are expected to.
Harry’s main source of income being unpub-
lishable, he paid tax, if any, only on meagre
takings of the billiard saloon.
The children of Tom and Dick worked wage-
less on the farms from childhood and after,
and got very little education —and that not
easily. Bright youngsters, their lack of train-
ing keeps them from any but rural jobs—almost
all low paid compared with industrial.
Harry’s children had an easy childhood, went
through high school and college, and graduated
into well-paid white-collar jobs.
The wives of Tom and Dick have worked
long hours for long years, seldom see a holiday
and generally dress and live on a scale below
the basic wage.
Mrs. Harry dresses like a duchess, has plenty
of leisure and holiday trips, is the life of her
set and looks years younger than her sisters-in-
law of same age.
The moral, of course, is that national indus-
tries like s.p. betting and tin-hare technique
should be included in the projects of all Young
Farmers’ Clubs.


Evensong, St. Paul’s, Melbourne.
Etching, John Shirlow.
THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
(Macleod Gallery),
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S
MOST
REPRESENTATIVE
COLLECTION
OF
AUSTRALIAN
ART.
Sydney Harbor Bridge. Etching, J. C. Goodchild.
Gallery
Open
Daily,
10 a.m. - 4.30 p.m.
ADMISSION
FREE.
: %
■
B
It
I
>:
H i
■
■
■*'
MS?
Hi
HI
RmBM
Where War Ends. Water-color, Norman Lindsay.
Pen and
Pencil
Drawings,
Water-colors,
Oils and
Etchings
By
Australia's
Foremost
Artists
For Sale.
mt,
a
m
m
I
■ ■
Roses. Oil-painting, R. W. Phillips.
■
N. Lindsay,
Hans Heysen,
Arthur Streeton,
E. Gruner,
B. E. Minns,
J. R. Jackson,
Will Ashton,
Fred Leist,
Robt. Johnson,
R. W, Phillips,
D. Pratt.
G. K. Townshend,
Etc,, Etc.
Castle Hill Farm. Oil-painting, Robt. Johnson.
There is no Wedding, Birthday or Christmas Gift More Appreciated than a Good Etching or Painting.
Write for Some Suggestions.


3233 H
Half fhe Trip is Dining
Enjoy Every Meal***
Use
Short Story
r Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you— now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside bqck cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
"Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Middle-aged lady, Vic., can cook, wants situa-
tion as housekeeper, small adult family.—4l27.
Young lady, Sydney, own machine, requires
typing work. —4075.
Young American, married, Diesel engineer,
10 years’ exp., at present in mercantile marine,
wants shore job in Sydney.—4o63.
Young man (22), Sydney, holds Chartres’
diploma, wants position as book-keeper.—4o67.
Gentleman wants seat in motor vehicle,
Sydney to Melbourne, about January 10.—4100.
German words of songs sung by Tauber,
Parlophone records ARI 93 (“Margen”) and
ARI 33 (“Patiently smiling”).—4l2s.
To buy, second-hand, Wheatley’s edition of
Pepys’s Diary. —4l34.
Information Sought.
(1) When was the “googly” first used by
Bosanquet in big cricket ? (2) How is it
bowled ? (3) What were Bosanquet’s best
figures in a Test innings? —4o9B.
(1) In a match between Middlesex and Leices-
tershire at Lord’s (Eng.) in July, 1900. (2)
Here is the originator’s description in Wisden
for 1925: “The googly (bowled by a right-
handed bowler to a right-handed batsman) is
nothing more nor less than an ordinary off-
break. The method of delivery is the secret of
its difficulty, and this merely consisted in turn-
ing the wrist over at the moment of delivery
far enough to alter the axis of spin, so that a
ball which, normally delivered would break
from leg, breaks from the off.” (3) Bosan-
quet’s best Test figures were 6 for 51 at Sydney
in March, 1904; and 8 for 107 at Nottingham
(England) in May, 1905. His full test figures
are 162.5 overs, 10 maidens, 604 runs, 25
wickets, average 24.16.
* * * *
(1) Were the unchanged bowling efforts of
Voce and Allen which outed Australia for 58
at Queensland recently unique in England v.
Australia Test cricket? (2) What other bowlers
have made similar innings wreckage? —4oB6.
(1) No; at Melbourne, Jan. 1-4, 1902, S.
Barnes (6 for 42) and C. Blythe (4 for 64) dis-
missed Australia in the first innings for 112,
and H. Trumble (3 for 38) and M. A. Noble
(7 for 17) outed England in their first innings
for 61. (2) G. Palmer (7 for 68) and E. Evans
(3 for 64) v. England (133) at Sydney, Feb.
17-20, 1882; R. G. Barlow (7 for 40) and F.
Morley (2 for 34) v. Australia (83) at Sydney,
Jan. 26-30, 1883; G. Palmer (4 for 32) and
F. Spofforth (5 for 30) v. England (77) at
Sydney, March 14-17, 1885 ; G. Lohmann (7 for
36) and J. Briggs (3 for 28) v. Australia (68)
at Kennington Oval, August 12-14, 1886; C.
Turner (6 for 15) and J. Ferris (4 for 27) v.
England (45) at Sydney, Jan. 28-31, 1887; C.
Turner (5 for 36) and J. Ferris (5 for 26) v.
England (62) at Lord’s, July 16-17, 1888; J.
Briggs (6 for 49) and G. Lohmann (3 for 46) v.
Australia (100) at Adelaide, March 24-28, 1892;
C. Turner (4 for 43) and G. Giffen (5 for 26)
v. England (72) at Sydney, Feb. 1-4, 1895; T.
Richardson (6 for 39) and G. Lohmann (3 for
13) v. Australia (53) at Lord’s, June 22-24,
1896; M. A. Noble (5 for 54) and J. Saunders
(5 for 43); v. England (99) at Sydney, Feb.
14-18, 1902; G. Hirst (4 for 28) and C. Blythe
(6 for 44) v. Australia (74) at Birmingham,
May 27-29, 1909.
* H= * *
(1) What are the match-points for Sheffield
Shield cricket? (2) What is the residential
qualifications for these matches ? —4074.
(1) Outright win five points, win on first
innings three, draw or tie two, loss on first
innings one, outright loss none, abandoned
match two to each team. In the event of two
or more States gaining the same number of
points, the winner shall be determined by the
batting and bowling averages. (2) Three
months’ residence, and no player is eligible to
play for more than one State in one season.
* * * *
(1) Is the musical side of Hollywood films
getting better or worse? (2) Why is great classi-
cal music never used?— 4lso.
(1) That’s a matter that can be considered
from many aspects. Recording of all sorts of
music, particularly orchestral and vocal, has
improved wonderfully in the last two years, and
as far as can be judged from what appears on
the screen in Australia the musical quality is
improving. To take a recent instance, the
incidental music to “The General Died at
Dawn” is scored for symphonic orchestra by a
composer of high repute, Werner Janssen. (2)
But it is. If someone plays the piano it is
usually a Chopin valse or the Liszt “Liebes-
traume.” In “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” the
doctor plays on the organ a Bach toccata and
fugue, and his ladylove is heard playing Chopin
on the pianoforte—very skilfully, too. In
“Broadway Parade of 1937” (not yet released
in Australia) Leopold Stokowski conducts his
symphony orchestra in Bach’s choral prelude
on Luther’s theme “A Mighty Fortess Is Our
God” and in the lesser Fugue in G. Minor.
Also there has been a flood of good operatic
music in films in which Grace Moore, Lily
Pons, Evelyn Laye, Lawrence Tibbett, Nino
Martini and other operatic stars have appeared.
Is the distaste for Beethoven shown by Percy
Grainger and Eileen Joyce, the latest noted
pianists to visit Australia, shared by the others
of the present generation of virtuosos? —4139.
Judging by their programmes, no. The
greatest of living pianists, Paderewski, said
recently: “The composer whom 1 still play
with unmitigated satisfaction is Beethoven.
Beethoven is consistently lofty. I feel that he
is the soul of music and that he contains the
germs of all later musicians. I hear Schumann,
Mendelssohn and even Chopin lying implicit in
Beethoven.” Backhouse, who in the opinion
of many ranks next after the veteran Pole, is a
Beethoven enthusiast, and was chosen to play
all the sonatas at the great Beethoven festival
in Europe some years ago.
* * * *
Is it true that Richard Crooks's voice was
“discovered” while he was working as an ice-
man, singing on his rounds? —4l37.
No; Crooks has been a singer all his life.
Made his first public appearance as a boy
soprano, aged 9; at 12 sang at a huge choral
festival at Trenton, N.Y., where he came under
the notice of Madame Schumann-Heinke, who
gave him some sage advice. In young manhood
he was a paid tenor in church choirs. It was
while he was seriously studying vocalism that he
took such jobs as painting gas-tanks, delivering
ice and canvassing for insurance to maintain
himself.
* * * *
Anything known about Bardarzewska, com-
poser of “The Maiden’s Prayer." Did he com-
pose other pieces? —4l47.
Theda Bardarzewska was a she, not a he —
a Polish girl, native of Warsaw, who died at
24. About 20 of her compositions are known,
all in the same facile “drawing-room” style
that made the “Prayer” so popular. None
had the success of “La Priere d’une Vierge,”
but in the ’seventies “La Priere Exaucde” (“The
Prayer Granted”) was bought by almost every-
one who appreciated the more famous com-
position.
* >!•• * *
Myself and a friend have just completed the
first year of our course for B.A. degree. We
are both anxious to gain a position on the staff
of a magazine or newspaper when our course
is completed. What are the steps to be taken
to gain such a position, and how can we in-
crease our qualifications ? What extra subjects
would be useful? —4107.
The only way to get a footing on the literary
side of newspaperdom is to get a job on a
newspaper—as a cadet or even as an office boy
if nothing better is offering. The first essential
for success in any sort of journalism is a nose
for news. The competent newspaperman ought
to know the basic principles of every art and
science, should be acquainted with the political
movements and events of his own and other
countries, and be able to see them in some sort
of historical perspective, and should know
where to get authoritative information on any
subject. Of all set subjects the one most likely
to be of practical value to a journalist is short-
hand. Practice at precis-writing is also helpful.
* * t- *
Is marriage with a deceased wife’s sister legal
in N.S.W. and the other Australian States? —
4055.
Yes. The Marriage Act, N.S.W., provides
that every marriage otherwise lawful celebrated
in that State between any person and the sister
of his deceased wife shall be deemed to be valid
and of full force and effect. Similar legislation
exists in the other States.
❖ ❖ * ❖
Particulars of the Ukraine? —4oB2.
The Ukraine (“borderland”) in south-western
Russia, is officially known as the Ukrainian
Socialist Soviet Republic, and sometimes re-
ferred to as Little Russia. Area about 166,368
sq. miles; population about 31,000,000 It is
Russia’s principal cereal-growing district. Sheep
and cattle are also raised in large numbers,
and minerals include coal, mercury, copper,
iron, manganese; there is some petroleum. The
greater portion consists of steppe country
(plains and plateaus), and the climate is pleasant
and healthful. Kiev (513,790) is the largest city,
and Kharkov (417,186) the capital. Other large
cities are Odessa (420,888) and Stalingrad
(148,376), the first-named being the principal
port.
* * * *
The veins near the rims of my upper eyelids
are very red, and there is a continuous smarting
pain around the rims. What is the matter? —
3904.
Condition is conjunctivitis, or inflammation
of the covering tissues of eyelids and eyeballs,
It is a low-grade infection, and may be caused
by irritating dusts or by strain due to a visual
defe.ct. Gently wipe away secretions with
moistened cotton-wool. Bathe eyes with salt
solution (one teaspoon to the pint of warm
water) in an eyebath. Apply a mixture of
boracic and yellow oxide of mercury ointments
(1 p.c. strength) to lids night and morning. If
trouble continues, consult an oculist.
•J* -S'
Symptoms and means of recognising pulmo-
nary tuberculosis in humans ? —3947.
The symptoms are persistent cough, sweat-
ing (particularly at night) and loss of weight.
These do not appear until the disease is well
established. Nowadays early diagnosis is pos-
sible by the use of X-rays, which should be used
in all suspected eases.
(1) I am only 26, but my hair {black) is turn-
ing grey. What can be done to check this ?
(2) Method of ridding the hair of dandruff or
scurf? —4038.
(1) There is no effective preventive for prema-
ture grey hair. The condition, largely heredi-
tary, is due to failure of hair-root cells to form
pigment, a function which cannot be stimu-
lated by any known method. Dyeing is un-
satisfactory. (2) Shampoo the scalp twice or
three times weekly with soap spirit.
Thoroughly dry the head, and then rub in the
following lotion: Salicyclic acid 5 parts, castor
oil 6 parts, spirits of rosemary 25 parts, recti-
fied or methylated spirit 150 parts. The castor
oil in the lotion should be increased if the scalp
is dry. Keep all brushes and combs scrupu-
lously clean.
* * * *
Some details concerning the animal known
as the wyulda, of which 1 understand only one
specimen has been found? —4104.
Of the family Phalangeridae. There is only
one species, W. squamicaudata, of which only a
single specimen—a female, found alive in the
Kimberley (W.A.) district —is at present known.
It seems intermediate between the cuscus and
the Australian opossum. Hair is less frizzly
than that of the opossum and less woolly than
that of the cuscus; ears are intermediate be-
tween the two. Head and body measure about
16£in.; tail 12in. Body-hair is grizzled above
and yellowish below. Tail is strongly prehensile,
and haired scantily for about one-seventh of
its length, the rest of the tail covered with small
thick, separate scales that do not overlap, in
color dark brown, shading to yellowish at the
tip. It has been surmised that it is closely
related to the scaly-tailed muskrat kangaroo
found in the Herbert River (Q.) district.
* * * *
Location of the yellow-bellied flying-opossum ?
Is it smaller than the greater flying opossum ?
What is its coloring ? —-4054.
It inhabits the coastal ranges of N. S. Wales
and Victoria, and is smaller than the greater
flying opossum, the head and body being 12in.
long and the tail 13in. It has long fur, brown
on the upper surface, and variously marked
with orange and black; the under-surface is
orange. The long tail is very bushy, especially
at the base.
❖
/ have read that two ripe bananas are equal
in food value to one pint of milk. Is this cor-
rect ? —4087.
Incorrect. The milk would yield about 435
calories (units of heat), while the two bananas
would produce only about 176 calories. In pro-
tein and fat content the milk is immensely
superior, and it is only slightly inferior to the
bananas in sugar.
# * * *
My graflex camera gives correct speed when
set to 1-10/Zi sec., but is too fast when set to
\-\sth sec. How can it be adjusted? —4ll3.
Probably you are making your settings in-
correctly. At l-10th sec. curtain is set at ljrin.
aperture; spring tension at 1. For l-15sec.
curtain remains at l^in.; spring tension is ad-
vanced to 2. Perhaps you have been winding
curtain to fin. aperture, leaving tension at 1,
which gives 1 -40th sec.
* * *
How can two photographic negatives be pro-
jected on the one surface? —4110.
Use only one projector and make two ex-
posures on the printing surface, one negative
after the other, testing for register beforehand
and marking the printing paper in pencil. Use
an orange glass cap for the lens while adjust-
ing the second negative, which will make the
light rays nonactinic.
* * * *
What value have shark products in Aus-
tralia ? Most economical method of capturing
sharks, and best location in N. S. Wales? —
4005.
It is difficult to say what value shark pro-
ducts have at present. There would be diffi-
culty in marketing the oil in Australia unless
the stearin (foots) were extracted at a low
temperature. There is no market in Australia
for the salted hides, and the latest quotation
received from London was from 9d. to Is. per
sq. ft. for hides containing 10 sq. ft. or over.
Hand lines and long lines would probably be
the most economical method of capture, and
the most favorable localities are probably to be
found on the north coast.
(1) Difference between one square mile and
one mile square? (2) One hundred per cent,
profit and a profit of one hundred per cent. ?
— 4121.
(1) A square mile is any area of 640 acres;
a mile square is the same area enclosed by sides
one mile long, with corners at right angles. (2)
One hundred per cent, profit accrues when cost
price and selling expenses are nil-, a profit of
100 p.c. accrues when selling price is double
cost price and all selling expenses.
* * * *
What is the difference between minutes of
narration and resolution ? —4057.
An example of a minute of narration is the
following: “The secretary reported that he had
purchased the books, typewriter and stationery
authorised at the previous meeting.” The fol-
lowing is an example pf a minute of resolu-
tion: “Resolved that we accept the invitation to
be represented in the protest against the cen-
sorship.”
* * * *
(1) What gauge wire should I use for supply-
ing a 50-h.p. f 415 -volt, three-phase motor. Dis-
tance from motor to mains, 500 yards? (2)
Method of obtaining the answer?-— 4017.
(1) 19/072 S.W.G. wire. A smaller-gauge
wire could be used were the motor located
nearer the main. (2) See Service Rules and
Installation Rules for the Supply of Electricity,
issued by the Municipal Council of Sydney, or
any other book containing wiring tables.
* * * *
Some particulars about a sub-family of trees
known as Endriandra? —4069.
Of the family Lauraceae, consisting of trees
with large globular fruits. The 15 species in-
digenous to Australia are confined to N. S.
Wales and Queensland. E. virens (white apple)
is a tree of 40-50 feet, with large, whitish
fruits. E. sieberi (cork-wood) reaches a height
of 60-70 feet, and has a rough, corky baric;
the fruit when ripe has a lustrous blue color,
varying to purple, and is a favorite food ot
wood pigeons. E. glauca, a “teak’ growing to
70 feet, has a handsome dark-colored timber
of aromatic fragrance.
Brief Answers.
J.S.: (1) The limit to borrowed money is
one-third total cost. (2) Fluctuates according
to nature of business apart from newspapers,
but should show £5. (3) Sub-agency draws
supplies from local agent. (4) Depends on
demand and situation. (5) Males 0n1y....
M. See Tasmanian Journal of Agricul-
ture for August, 1934... .D.M.: Write Angus,
and Robertson, Sydney... .E.L.: Write Secre-
tary, Taxpayers’ Association of Victoria, 360
Collins-street, Melbourne... .A.W.8.: Particu-
lars too vague... .A.J.: Bosh is a Turkish
word, signifying empty, vain or useless ; appar-
ently became popular in England about 1824,
after the publication of James Morier’s Adven-
tures of Haiji Baba of Ispahan. In its modern
meaning of humbug or nonsense, it is in
common use throughout the English-speaking
world... .G.H.: Get in touch with R. A.
Rooney and Co., Shearing Contractors, Flem-
ington, Sydney... .H.0.C.: From N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney, 2s R.A.P.: Write
Chief Veterinary Surgeon, Agricultural Dept.,
Sydney... .8.C.: The information does not
enable a diagnosis to be made. Consult a vet.
. ...R.S.: Suggest that you approach them
directly. Cannot say what their requirements
are at the moment... .H.D.: Prof. Edward
Arthur Milne, M.8.E., F.R.S., M.A., M.Sc.,
Watham College, Oxford, England... .R.H.T.:
Requested dates and times of England-Aus-
tralia air flights are: Cobham, August, 1926,
36 days; Hinkler, February, 1928, 15| days;
Scott, April, 1931, 9 days 4 hours 11 minutes;
Butler, November, 1931, 9 days 2 hours 27
minutes; Kingsford Smith, October, 1933, 7
days 4 hours 44 minutes; Amy Johnson, May,
1939, 19 days; Jean Batten, April, 1935, 14
days 23 hours 33 minutes; Broadbent, Novem-
ber, 1935, 6 days 21 hours 19 minutes; Molli-
son (Australia to England solo flight), August,
1931, 8 days 22 hours 25 minutes... .N.J.M.:
“Bitch” is the correct term for a female dog;
“slut” (Middle English of Icelandic origin)
was applied to young women of the serving
classes, and later to slovenly or uncleanly
women, which is its modern sense, although it
is also used as a synonym for “bitch”....
L. : Director, National Art Gallery of
N. S. Wales, The Domain, Sydney... .S.D.:
Ashmore and Cartier Islands, situated in the
Indian Ocean, off the n.-w. coast of Australia,
were placed under the authority of the Com-
monwealth on July 31, 1931 S.T.: Head-
quarters of the Aust. and N.Z. Assoc, for the
Advancement of Science are at Science House,
Gloucester-street, Sydney. Meetings are usually
held biennially in the various States and in
M. ; the next will be held in Auckland in
January... .N.S.M.: (1) Australia sent to the
South African War 848 officers and 15,327
other ranks. Many Australians also served as
members of units raised in Great Britain and
South Africa. (2) 16,314 horses were sent
from Australia... .T.C.: Ocean Island and
Nauru, by A. F. Ellis (7s. 6d.).... W.W.W.:
No bounty is paid for sparrows in N. S. Wales.
... .C.F.: Narbethong means “cheerful” ;
Ourimbah, “ring or circle on the bora-
ground”; Turella, “reeds growing in water”;
and Willoring, “honey running from a tree” —
all are N.S.W. abo. place-names... .D.A.J.:
“Esquire,” 919 North Michigan-avenue,
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A J.8.M.: The cast
of Robert Morley’s “Short Story” at Queen’s
Theatre, London, November, 1935, was: A. E.
Matthews (Simon Leigh), Una Venning
(Peacock), Marie Tempest (Georgina Leigh),
Margaret Rutherford (Miss Flower), Rex
Harrison (Mark Kurt), Cyril Raymond (Lord
Bucktrout), Ursula Jeans (Penelope Marsh)
and Sybil Thorndike (Lady Bucktrout)....
H.T.W.: The King’s Police Medal was insti-
tuted in 1909 as a reward “for acts of excep-
tional courage and skill or conspicuous devotion
to duty,” by officers and men of any recognised
police force or organised fire brigade in the
British Empire. It is worn on the left breast.
The riband is of five stripes of dark blue and
silver. Bats may be added for additional service.
R.G.: Irving Berlin, Inc., 799 Seventh-
avenue ; Carl Fischer, Inc., Cooper-square;
Novello and Co., 159 East 48th-street; M. Whit-
mark and Sons, 1250 6th-avenue, and Chappell
and Co., Inc., Rockefeller Centre —all New York,
N. U.S.A C.L.: George Robey was
born in 1869... .M. 8.: Chantemerle finished
first in the 1917 A.J.C, Summer Cup, but was
disqualified, the race being awarded to Poitrel.
In 1924 Irish Flower and Confusion ran a
dead-heat for second place for the same cup.
N.C.: Andrew Fisher died on October 22,
1928... .A.T.: George Andrew McMahon,
charged among other things with an attempt
to alarm King Edward VIII., was sentenced to
12 months’ imprisonment G. 8.: The natural
history of Lord Howe Island is dealt with in
many papers in “Records of the Australian
Museum,” the “Australian Museum Magazine”
and “Proceedings of the Linnaean Society of
N. S. Wales”... .C.H.: “Astringosol” (any
chemist) is a useful mouthwash for the purpose.
These dental troubles are aggravated by defi-
ciency of various food factors. Diet should
contain milk, eggs, animal fats, fruits and
vegetables, and a daily dose of orange-juice.
Radiomalt should be taken three times a day
after meals A. 8.8.: Cannot express an
opinion without having seen the trophy....
W. 8.5.: A. L. Jones, 221 Lakemba-street,
Lakemba, Sydney, is secretary of the British
ex-Service Legion of Australia E.H.: The
date of the next City of Sydney Eisteddfod has
not yet been fixed. Usually it is held in late
August or early September. Other information
is obtainable from D. G. Macdougall, organis-
ing secretary, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
6AM
1000 WATTS
The
Happy Station
23 William St.
Perth, W.A.
Wake up to the
opportunities that
6AM offers you.
The great markets
of the West—
pastoralis ts —
miners wheat
farmers—all wait-
ing for you to
reach them
through 6AM—
the station that
is received
EVERYWHERE.
A
CAREER
roR
YOU
psmm*
WSN# lit
Mo«4*
/KAUWAY
/ SQUAftS
•SYDMY J
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW
LkJW'
f* | IN THE
pSupEr-Frßßzer
m nor - KECTme oifrigerator
With a Super-Freezer (kerosene-oper-
ated refrigerator) your food-wastage
and food storage troubles are over.
This modern, non-electric refrigerator
holds a whole sheep cut up, and keeps
it fresh, succulent, nourishing! With
the Super-Freezer you can serve dainty
ice-cold drinks and fruit salads, frozen
puddings, iced and jellied desserts!
Trifles, blanc-manges, and crisp salads
are no trouble.
Continuous cold from cold re-
serve tank in all 1936 Models.
Continuous refrigeration
simply by lighting the small
kerosene burner once a day.
No mechanism!
dB
\
D
m
0^
• A
c
m
Super - Freezer
Chest Model
available in three
sizes from
£34 / 10
IV.S.IF. Distributors: — (
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS LTD.
188 George Street, Sydney.
Write for full particulars, or call at the above address for demonstration.
Kings of the Pre-Hollywood Era.
BY “EL v.”
The shades of elder British sovereigns
must look with envy on the new
divinity which has come to surround the
British monarchy since there has been
a flapper press. With the exception of,
perhaps, Elizabeth and Victoria in their
later years, no British rulers before the
twentieth century were accorded the re-
spectful attention which saw Edward
VIII. as “the greatest living English-
man” when viewed through the eyes of
Lord Rothermere —who himself was
suggested as the monarch of Hun-
gary, home of the czardas and other
noisy dances.
William Rufus, a large, blustering,
full-living 'person, was found with an
arrow in him in the New Forest, and
nobody has ever discovered how it got
there.
John showed signs of becoming a
Mussolini. The Barons took him to a
quiet meadow and told him how much
they disliked his ways. The results were
permanent.
Edward 11. exhibited a taste for “exotic
society” and the fourteenth-century equi-
valent of night-club life. The. Baldwins
of the age arrived one morning with an
eviction notice. The blood of some of
the “exotics” flowed in the gutters, and
after Edward had quitted his job he was
discovered one. day suffering from rigor
mortis.
Englishmen felt no qualms about tell-
ing James I.; what they thought of him,
even at the risk of their heads. To
Charles I. they spoke even more plainly
and practically when he interfered with
their traditional rights. But there was
no spleen about their beheading of him.
When the Cromwells showed them-
selves endowed with the same qualities
as some of the weaker kings, they were
sent packing.
Charles 11. was acclaimed a good king
only as a matter of reaction. He left
the English alone. And his subjects did
not worry overmuch when his brother,
James, married a commoner and did
not acknowledge the fact for six months.
But so soon as James showed signs of
despotism out he went without waiting
to sign an instrument of abdication.
Offered the Crown, James’s daughter
Mary and her Dutch husband hurried
over to England. Her husband, having
ennobled his Dutch friends with British
titles and enriched them with Irish
estates, reigned on after she had died
at the early age of 33. Her sister Anne
succeeded her.
And then came the German Georges,
descended on the female side from
James I. The first two Georges
did not even speak English. Many of
their family kept a German accent even
unto Queen Victoria.
The Georges were never encouraged
to cherish illusions about the divine right
of Kings. George 11., walking in
his garden at Kensington Palace, was set
upon by a footpad who stripped him to
his shoe buttons. Frederick Prince of
Wales had an uncomfortable tea party,
because of a plot which had been re-
vealed to rob him in his own drawing-
room. The mob once pelted George 111.
—“Farmer George”—with rocks as he
rode to St. James’s Palace in his car-
riage.
His mother had admonished him when
he came to the throne: “George, be
King.” But it was not easy with Pitts
and other such people scattered all over
the landscape. When, he was “an old,
blind, mad, despised and dying king,”
with “princes, the dregs of their dull
race, mud from a muddy spring”
(Shelley’s version), England went about
its business and achieved its greatest era
of conquest and industrial triumph.
The shadow of scandal hung over
most of the royal sons. George IV, —
“Prinny”—had married Mrs. Fitzherbert
and infamously denied it; he then
wedded and abandoned Caroline of
Brunswick. On the throne of his
fathers he openly kept Lady Conyng-
ham at Windsor and Brighton and
ennobled her left-hand sons. The
Grand Old Duke of York—Bishop
of Osnaburgh at seven —helped Mrs.
Clarke, a carpenter’s runaway wife,
into Gloucester House and—sometimes
—gave her £lOOO a month to live on.
When the lady was suspected of taking
money from officers as a fee for influ-
encing the C.-in-C. the Commons held
an inquiry.
They unearthed the love letters which
the C.-in-C. wrote in August, 1805:
God bless you, my own dear, dear love!
I shall miss the post if I add more; oh,
believe me ever, to my last hour, yours and
yours alone How can I sufficiently ex-
press to my darling love my thanks for her
dear, dear letter or the delight which the
assurances of her love give me... .Yester-
day I reviewed the camp here and after-
wards the 14th Light Dragoons.
Surely no stranger dispatch from a C.-in-
C., written in the midst of a Great War,
was ever placed before the Commons.
A tart member remarked that his Royal
Highness came out of the discussion like
Banquo’s ghost:
With twenty mortal gashes on his head.
He demanded that the House should
sack H.R.H. ; but the House let him
off with a caution.
Then came “Sailor Bill,” alias William
IV. “He had a head shaped like a pine-
apple,” Wellington said, and when he
ascended the throne he had ten children.
He once closed a letter to a peer with
Damn all the bishops! I have the honor
to be, my dear Jack, your Lordship, very
faithfully, William.
He had acquired his ten at Bushey, where
he had been living domestically with
Mrs. Jordan, the actress. The first act
of the bluff old fellow was to offer
brother George’s Mrs. Fitzherbert the
title of Duchess. When he put on
his crown he was surrounded by the
family.
Victoria was different; but no adula-
tion was wasted on the young queen or
her relations. Her favorite Uncle
Leopold of Belgium was to Greville,
secretary to the Privy Council, a “poor
creature ... his pomposity fatigues and
his avarice disgusts.” Her father was
“the greatest rascal that ever went un-
hung.” Greville was afraid that the
father’s disposition might show out in
the daughter. The country was spared
that, but of the young Queen Greville
says “there was nothing to criticise,
nothing particularly to admire.” Mel-
bourne was taken from her, Palmer-
ston forced on her; Peel, Palmer-
ston and Gladstone. She loathed
all three. And when the Prince Con-
sort began to act the King, it was the
Tory journals which attacked and
brought him to heel.
The extension of movie-star worship
to the throne is an event without pre-
cedent in English history.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.F.R.-S.: More suitable for Saturday supple-
ment of a daily D. 8.: Small-town sketch
lacks cohesion; hard to wring skit out of that
play on fowl names W.P.: Confusion caused
by child endearments being addressed to dog
has been done to death P.McD.: It rings
true, but we can’t find a niche for it.,..
L.O’N.T.: Bibulous marksman only scored an
outer... .M. 1.: War yarns have to be something
out of the bag—yours is too conventional....
A.W.J.: With* a little more stiffening that charac-
ter sketch might have rung the bell Kriz:
Poaching yarn not quite strong enough.... J.M.:
Some fair humor, but it lacks the vital spark.
Jamieson: Caledonian home-lessons insuffi-
ciently interesting... .J.E.K.: “The Dominant
Look” outed at first glance E.T.M.: Took
one; other not up... .L.0’8.: Nothing in it.
D.T.F.: Couldn’t swallow that bit of
steak J.8.C.: Neat plot, humor on the tame
side... .K.T.: A rough-and-ready effort
A.K.: Send it to a temperance magazine
R.H.N.: Shorter ones off our beat; the other is
understocked with laughs... .J.P.: Muddled
F.R.M.: Too juvenile D. 8.: Another victim
for the basket... .A.H.N.: The Duke’s dis-
guise was too transparent and the ending too
obvious H.C.F.: Both on the thin side
K. : Tell it without the preamble J.M.F.:
Commonplace... .W.A.: You add nothing to
the history of bushworkers’ benders A.J.M.:
If you’ve never seen it in print your range of
reading must be strangely limited... .J.D.S.:
Don’t mind absence of typewriter; it’s the lack
of other things that bowls you out... .H.C.8.:
A long way off.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.K.: Drawings belong to the scratchers’
school and gags to last century D.M.C.:
Except for the joke underneath we would have
mistaken it for a sample of wallpaper... .J.F.:
Never consider “rough-outs” from unknowns.
A.P.: Struck that gag in U.S. magazine
L. : Neat poses, but the linework is shaky
and the jokes wouldn’t make a cat do other
than h0w1... .R.D.: Alleged abo. resembles a
stray from the African jungle... .J.S.: Leaving
large and frequent gaps in the linework doesn’t
improve the drawings... .A.K.: Picture of new-
chum in sheep-dip collected this week’s booby
prize... .C.S.G.: It might win a certificate in
a children’s contest H. 8.: You have plenty
more? We await our fate... .GJ.: Promising
student’s work; more life is needed C.T.A.:
It wouldn’t have been Christmas without that
old chestnut... .P.J.J.: You might as well have
turned in a drawing with invisible ink on cello-
phane. .. .R.H.: City cousin looks like an imi-
tation fashion drawing W.P.: Still plodding
along! We thought you had thrown the towel
in long ago S.M.: The sketch, apart from
being feeble, doesn’t illustrate the gag....
E.T.J.: Sorry, but we have no live unicorns
you could use as models. Why not keep to
white mice? R.J.8.: You can draw lamp-
posts reasonably well S.C.A.: We presume
by the size of the feet that the uniformed
figure is a policeman, but why is he hitting a
carpet with a golf stick? T.F.: Has all the
hallmarks of a first attempt... .J.8.N.: The
wheeze is in its dotage and the drawing is no
joy to behold... .W.V.: Caricature doesn’t
resemble the person named; anyhow, he has
long vanished from the public eye D.J.:
Leason illustrated the scarecrow-and-fisherman
joke many years ag0....A.L.: Use a thinner
brush and cut out the needless black patches.
H.C.N.: They started an epidemic of yawn-
ing in the office... .T.R.: Accept assurance
that dull gags weren’t pinched.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
RELAXATION!
Modern comfort and service are assured when travelling by
Canadian-Australasian Liners
to
EUROPE v ia
NEW ZEALAND—FIJI—HONOLULU and VANCOUVER
Enjoy the wonders of the Canadian Rockies!
Fares, Itineraries and all Particulars on application to:-
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney,
59 William Street, Melbourne.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND .
Idle Land
A few years ago stout-hearted pioneers
took up land in the Mt. Compass dis-
trict (S.A.). What had been considered
useless scrub they cleared and —using
super, and sub. clover —transformed into
pasture capable of carrying three, even
four, sheep to the acre. Other settlers
followed and to-day part of the Mt.
Compass country is one of the show
places of S.A.
But other parts are still in their virgin
state, for they are being “held for a
rise.” Exactly the same thing is true of
land on Kangaroo Island and in the
south-east of S.A. A few men demon-
strated what could be done ; then land
was locked up. When portion of Pad-
thaway station was resumed for closer
settlement and cut up there were hun-
dreds of disappointed applicants. And
S.A. has settlers waging a hopeless fight
outside Goyder’s line of rainfall when
land inside the 20-25 inch rainfall belt is
lying idle.
Cure? Survey every acre in 20in.
country and better ; strictly enforce the
laws regarding development of and per-
sonal residence on leasehold land, and
tax all freehold land not being improved.
Huge areas of country in the western
districts of Victoria are tied up in a
similar way.—L. A. H. (S.A.).
Sikul I Kan Makim Orait!
In other words, the school can be made
all right by the New Guinea authorities
(B. 2/12/’36). And it may be made so
without much trouble.
The snag so far has been Govefn-
ment’s fatuous idea of teaching English
to the native and of teaching him all else
in that language. The key to simplicity,
the first vital step in education, is that
Government should standardise and
.adopt “pidgin” as the universal language
within the Territory.
Any native will master “pidgin” within
10 weeks of leaving his village. It is not
in any sense a “pidgin English,” a cor-
rupted form of our tongue ; it is essen-
tially a native language, with a vocabu-
lary of mixed English, other European,
Asiatic and native words in native pro-
nunciation. There is nothing of any con-
sequence in New Guinea business and
social activity and mission work that
cannot be dealt with in “pidgin.”
A houseboy, a youngster taken five
months before from a remote village,
gave an odd pronunciation to a word and
was asked to explain how it came to be.
He explained after a mere instant of
thought, “Me talk wind-door belong me
think ’im true allsame. ’lm [pointing to
door] door belong man he can come in
now go out. ’lm [pointing to window]
me think door belong wind he come
now go allsame.”
Government aspires to teach him and
his kind from the spelling of “cat” to
the Sixth Reader, to have him say “win-
dow” and still be unaware of its deriva-
tion from the Norse word meaning
“wind-eye”—essentially the same thing
as he had deduced without any educa-
tion at all. —V iau (N.S.W.).
Ayes and Noes
Already in Victoria the marketing
referendum has led to the renewal —tem-
porarily anyway—of an old friendship,
that of Mr. Dunstan and Mr. Argyle, and
the sundering of an ancient alliance.
The Tariff “Reform” League, with which
Victoria’s Cocky organisation has
hitherto been thick, is unashamedly
chasing “no” votes among the graziers,
wheat- and fruitgrowers, housewives’
organisations and other bodies repre-
sented on its council. The Cockies are
yes-men.—M. L. (Vic.).
Butter and' the Referendum
l learn from the “U.A.P. Review”
(N.S.W.) that unless the Government at
Canberra gets the marketing powers it
seeks Australia will be ruined ; and the
ladies ought to provide against that for
their own sakes :
The Australian housewife benefits by the
maintenance of a set price, which has been
made possible by organised marketing
schemes. Even since the Privy Council de-
cision in the James case, the price of
butter in London, expressed in Australian
currency, has been up to 1495. a cwt., while
it has been selling in this country at 140 s.
Butter in Sydney has been 140 s. But when
the above specious summary was issued
“Kangaroo” brand, or best Australian,
was selling in London at 108 s. to 109 s.
sterling. As 12s. 6d. per hundredweight
freight and handling charges are in-
cluded in this, the same butter in Sydney
should be worth at most 1235. instead
of 140 s.
For the year 1935-36 the average Lon-
don price of Australian butter was only
965. 3d. For 1934-35, the average was
755. 6d.; for 1933-34, 78s. And London
has consistently paid about £AI more
per hundredweight for best Danish
butter, which the Commonwealth mar-
keting organisation is always ready to
swear to be no better than choicest Aus-
tralian. It scarcely sounds like a triumph
for Australian marketing organisation.
—EI V. (N.S.W.).
No Red Menace
Contrary to popular belief there has
been no political Russia since 1918.
There has been a United Soviet Socialist
Republic with a Constitution which ex-
pressly declared in its preamble that ‘"the
very construction of Soviet authority is
international'’ and “aims at the union of
the workers of all countries in the world
Soviet socialist republic.” The U.S.S.R.’s
official coat-of-arms —also described in
its Constitution —is “a hammer and
sickle emblazoned on a globe with the
inscription in six languages, ‘Proletarians
of the World, Unite.’ ”
A mortal fear that somebody will
pinch the sickle prompts the leaders of
the Republic to keep up a Red Army
with a regular strength of 1,000,000,
2,000,000 trained reserves and 8,000,000
partly-trained reserves, and an air force
of 4000 machines. But there is little
danger of aggression from the U.S.S.R.
In that I agree with Prof. Copland (B.
23 /12 / ’36). All the training of its
leaders, who are international oppor-
tunists, has been in leading themselves
into hollow logs rather than in leading
peoples to battle.—E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Australian Produce in Britain
We learn from Dr. Page that to
popularise Australian apples and pears
in the U.K. the Director of Australian
Trade Publicity in London employs eight
persons regularly and 14 special can-
vassers. For publicity of these items
alone 200,000 price tickets, 45,000 hand-
bills, 60,000 window streamers for
apples and 30,000 for pears and 30,000
vertical displays for apples were dis-
tributed. Demonstrations are made /'in
shops and in vans ; hundreds of traffic
vehicles carry posters, and hoardings are
displayed on specially “secured” sites.
But the expenditure is not divulged, nor
is any actual sale increase mentioned.
Several years ago I observed similar
hectic publicity for Australian export-
produce, hoardings and all. City stores
for a few days, specially displayed Aus-
tralian food products. Even horse-carts
carried posters. English printers and
others benefited. But London street-
barrows sold Brazilian oranges nearly
double the size of Australian cheaper.
Street-stalls sold Australian eggs for
Is. a dozen, while a shop a yard away
charged Is. 2d. ; in Sydney the price of
eggs at the same time was Is. 9d. Aus-
tralia House concurrently sold Granny
Smith apples at Is. a pound —apples
varying from fist-size to wee ones. Visit-
ing Australians bought, laughing, and
with derision commented on display
and prices of Australian fruit.
Householders abroad, as in Australia,
buy commodities whose appearance and
price tempt, irrespective of land of pro-
duction. Excessive publicity may be
viewed with suspicion as a mere sale
stunt. Great publicity expenditure
abroad might be more beneficially
applied at home in price-reduction, and
so induce increased consumption or
food for the benefit of consumer and
producer. —Te Babarantiko (N.S.W.). j
Defence and Futility
During the closing year the campaign
in Abyssinia showed us that wars of the
future will be fought with road-making
machinery, transport vehicles, aeroplanes
and mechanised quickfiring weapons. But
Australia still relies on infantry armed
with rifles and bayonets.
It is the same with the air The
Australian policy of a fighter- plane
nucleus has gone out of date with the
adoption by Britain and European coun-
tries of bombers or “key” types. —O. S.
(Q-).
The Five-year Parliament
Touching the report that S.A. Premier
Butler dropped the bill for the Five-year
Parliament “to meet the convenience of
members, many of whom had to fulfil en-
gagements at centenary functions,” there
was a significant meeting of L.C.P. mem-
bers. Mr. Butler believed that he had a
statutory majority and fully intended to
make the Five-year Parliament perma-
nent. But Mr. Baden Pattison was not
present at the party meeting. He had
voted for the extension, and it was taken
for granted that he would vote for the
bill. However, he stated that as he would
not be a candidate at the next election
he did not feel justified in voting for it.
Phis left the Government short of the
necessary majority. — Tellus (S.A.).
Improving Australian Orchestras
The policy of A.B.C. for the im-
provement of the standard of orchestral
music is, in the main, to arrange for visits
by eminent overseas conductors, each
musician to conduct, perhaps, two or
three orchestral concerts in Sydney and
Melbourne and one each in Adelaide,
Brisbane and Perth.
Examined, the scheme discloses that
(1) the cost of importing distinguished
conductors will be considerable ; (2) the
orchestras will be schooled by local
talent, the men from abroad adding the
final touch only ; (3) each overseas con-
ductor . will either represent a different
school or have a different interpretation
of the masterpieces to be produced; (4)
conducting of the orchestras will again
come under local batons, and the dif-
ferent interpretations may influence some
confusion in the final result.
A better way would be to send two
or three good Australian conductors over-
seas each year. The experience gained
would then be at the permanent service
of good Australian material of which
they would resume control.
For a start, the A.B.C. could surely
arrange a six-months exchange of con-
ductors with the 8.8. C. If not, the
scheme of sending local talent overseas
for orchestral experience could be pro-
ceeded with just the same. Is not the
precedent of Melba, Brownlow and
other good Australians sufficient to in-
spire A.B.C. with vision? —F. S. A. (S.A.).


THE YOUTH
COMPETITIONS
**T'HE BULLETIN” has received abundance of evidence that its competitions for
* youths who want to get on but see no present prospect of realising their ambitions
are appreciated.
In one case the prize will amount to the sum of Fifty Pounds (£5O), which will
be paid by The Bulletin Newspaper Company at its discretion, to further the winner s
advancement in the study, business or calling of his choice,
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship; in other words, a job on
“The Bulletin.”
“ ‘The Bulletin’ is to be congratulated,” said Mr. A. A.
Dunstan, the Premier of Victoria.
‘‘ln addition to providing one meritorious boy with a posi-
tion and another with a cash prize, the competitions will have
the important result of helping to focus public opinion on the
parlous plight of many lads who, through no fault of their own,
have been unable to secure employment.
‘‘At a time like the present,” Mr. Dunstan added, “move-
ments such as those initiated by “The Bulletin” deserve the
fullest appreciation of the community.”
“Cadetships on metropolitan papers are difficult to obtain,”
said Mr. S. E. Pratt, general secretary of the Australian
Journalists’ Association. “Youths seeking openings in the
profession have realised this after their names have been added
to successive waiting lists.
“ ‘The Bulletin’s’ offer provides an excellent opportunity
for the boy showing the most aptitude. He will enter the
profession through an Australian paper held in high regard by
experienced journalists.”
Competitors for the £5O prize may be any age from 1 7 to
22. They will be required to give in writing plain accounts of
themselves, their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth who, considered as a citizen in the making,
will, in the editor’s judgment, put it to the best use.
He may be a student stumped for books or fees; a budding
scientist who cannot at present buy needed apparatus; a lad
with a mechanical bent who is short of money for tools or for
a premium; an embryo flying or wireless man who cannot
finance a course; a young fellow starting in some carrying or
other business to whom £5O would be a godsend; a country lad
who with £5O could do something in the sharefarming line or
buy some implement or even pay a deposit on a bit of land,
perhaps having some friendly neighbor who may be willing to
give a lad a chance.
“The Bulletin” wants the stories of such lads, and of
hundreds of others. Not necessarily for publication in every
case —no doubt in some cases there will be written things which
should not be made public—but so that it may arrive at a
fair judgment, and also that it may collect evidence that will
second the efforts of those good people who have taken up
the cause of unemployed lads and of others whose opportunities
have been tragically restricted by the depression.
It will not be expected of any entrant for Youth Com-
petition No. 1 that he must be a practised writer. If he makes
out what is adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won t matter
a bit if his grammar is rocky and he can t spell.
Character, courage and a clear and logical purpose—these
are the things that will tell.
In the other competition, however, literary merit or aptitude
will necessarily be a deciding factor.
“The Bulletin” wants a lad who may be trained to become
a responsible member of its staff, and naturally preference will
go to the boy who, on the evidence of the writing submitted,
will seem most likely to supply the requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths ih the I 7-22
age group living anywhere in the Australian Commonwealth or
Territories or in New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads living anywhere
in Australia or its Territories or New Zealand, but they must
be aged 17, 18 or 19.
In each case youths living remote from Sydney will start
equal with residents of Sydney as regards chances of landing
the prize.
If the winner of Youth Competition No. 2 happens to be a
Victorian, a Queenslander, a South Australian, a Westralian,
a Tasmanian, a New Zealander or a resident of any of the
Australian Territories, or of N. S. Wales beyond Sydney, The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. will pay his fare to Sydney and see
that he is installed in a decent home.
If, after a fair trial, he does not like the job or the job does
not like him, he will be sent back to the place he came from at
the expense of The Bulletin Newspaper Company.
Throughout “The Bulletin’s” history many members of its
staff have been brought from parts of Australia other than
N.S.W., and from Maoriland
James Edmond came to “The Bulletin from Queensland,
S. H. Prior from Broken Hill (then virtually part of S.A.)
and the present editor from Westralia.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association) rates for cadets
are £2 a week the first year, £2 15 s. the second year, and £3
15s. the third year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 1 2s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to Sydney, the first
year’s salary will be made up to £2 1 Os., and the lad will have
opportunities of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
Entries for both competitions will be received to the end
of February.
YOUTH COMPETITION NO. 1. ]
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would do with the money. j
Lead up to it by giving a short account of yourself and your j
experiences, stating your age, condition, whether living at home |
or out in the world; if no longer at school, how old you were J
when you left it, and so forth. i
There is jio word-limit for your essay, but try not to make j
it too long. Facts are the essential things. And write on one J
side of the paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cutting in the places
specified and get one of the responsible parties mentioned below
to certify to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to your
essay and address both to Editor, The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS A.
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of
religion.)
1 certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that
the facts are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
YOUTH COMPETITION NO. 2.
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A WRITER.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to 1200 words though
there will be no hard-and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course your reading has
taken, your favorite poet (and why), the prose-writer you prefer
(and why), what sort of memory you possess, and whether you
have had anything printed in your school paper or in some other
publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of the responsible
persons mentioned below, pin it to your essay and post to Editor,
“The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of
religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that
the facts are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS


Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London — F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
HUI. E.C.4.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
and Sydney. Therefore the report further
bears out that, as had already been well
proved, ultra-short-wave signals can be
put to positions on the other side of
mountain ranges provided the reception
position is not directly under the shadow
of the obstacle.
There is obviously some bending of the
wave after passing the top or sides of
high ground, and at a.sufficiently great
distance on the other side the signal
appears to return to earth. An instance
of this was afforded two years ago when
five-metre signals from the writer’s
station were received well on the western
side of Mount Victoria, some 80 miles
distant. These results should encourage
the continuation of tests with aerials.
Many experimenters give up, dis-
appointed at mediocre results on five
metres, when a little more attention to
aerial systems might bring success.
Soon the preliminary heat in the W. T.
S. Crawford Trophy competition for the
best amateur telegraphist will be
decided, and it is anticipated that there
will be keen rivalry for the honor. All
licensed amateurs have been circularised
by the W.1.A., and the rules are clearly
laid down. With recent licensees show-
ing inclinations solely toward micro-
phone technique, such a competition
comes at an opportune time. Anybody
can bleat into a microphone, and too
many are concerned only with this,
throwing the more important factor of
telegraphic proficiency into the discard
immediately after having scrambled
somehow through the 12 w.p.m. test in-
cluded in the exam. In the U.S.A. it is
being suggested that a yearly re-examina-
tion should be insisted on, and in view
of the way many Australian stations are
conducted it is clear such an ordinance
is needed here, also.
VK2NO.
Oscillator for Checking
U.H.F.
For undertaking anything approach-
ing serious work on ultra-shorts the ex-
perimenter must have on hand some
ready means of making measurements.
This applies particularly to aerial design
and the job of determining resonance for
any particular frequency.
Take, for example, the adjustment of
a transmitting aerial for use somewhere
in the 56mc. to 60mc. band. Most new-
comers to this U.H.F. band are content
to abide by handbook charts for dipole
lengths. It is, however, wrong to assume
that because a chart states “7ft. Bin.- for a
57mc. halfwave” this is correct under
all conditions. Physical objects and in-
correct feeding can put this figure wide
of the mark. It is advisable, to make
sure by applying an indicating oscillator
to' show actually where aerial resonance
falls.
A simple* oscillator is easily made for
this purpose, and the diagram shows the
essentials. The valve may be any
tetrode such as a ’32, ’57 or 6C6, depend-
ing upon the supply to be used.
With a 40mmfd. tuning condenser, a
coil having five turns of 16 copper wire
|in. diameter and tapped at the centre
will cover from 4.5 to 7.5 metres. The
R.F. coil may have 45 turns of 26
D.S.C. on a iin. dowel and the milli-
ameter should be of Oma. to sma. type.
A Oma. to lma. meter can be used with
a shunG If a cathode heater type valve
is used the R.F. choke in the A+ will
not be needed. Aerial resonance is indi-
cated when the oscillator grid is coupled
to the aerial in the usual way, a sharp
rise in plate current being noted on the
meter as the condenser is tuned through
the aerial load. Coupling should not be
too tight. Without previous calibration
the oscillator will be of little help, but
the lecher-wire method can be applied
for this. Alternately calibration can be
done by beating the oscillator against a
receiver tuned to stations of known fre-
quency.
"Modernising a Portable."
In the diagram with the article on
“Modernising a Portable” (B. 16/12/’36)
a connection is missing. It will be
obvious to the constructor that a con-
nection should be shown between the
B plus 120 v. and the screen grid of the
PM22A pentode valve. Otherwise no
plate voltage would reach the detector
and audio stages.
How would-be broadcasters are tested for B.B. C. pro-
grammes. The productions director, Howard Rose, listens
from a separate room. Names are not known to him ;
for the purpose of the audition each is allotted a number .
Performances are therefore judged purely on merits for
broadcasting.
The 28-m.c. Rotary Beam.
In a description of the Reinartz rotary
beam aerial system as applied to trans-
mission and reception on 56 megacycles
(B. 11/3/’36) it was suggested that with
dimensions doubled the system should be
well worth a trial on 28 me. An experi-
menter at Longreach (Q.), W. M.
Hagarty, of VK4WH, has tested the idea
with excellent results. His transmitter
uses an input power of 18 watts maxi-
mum to the final stage, which is a 210
type valve. He had no difficulty in com-
municating with VK2GU in Canberra,
and with the beam in the correct direc-
tion can nearly always manage to hear
and work this station. On the night of
17/11/’36, VK4WH heard PAOAZ in
Holland and worked with him forthwith.
Several European stations, including one
in Roumania, were subsequently com-
municated with. Stations worked by
VK4WH with this beam system include
YL2CD, FBWQ, YRSAR, J2IN, ZSIH,
OH7NF, VK3XP, VK3CP, VKSKL,
VK2BX, VK2VA, ZL4BQ, ZLIGX,
ZLIFT and ZLICK, ample proof of the
efficiency of this compact beam aerial
system.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
One of the most interesting and useful
text-books dealing solely with the needs
of the serviceman is The Official Radio
Service Handibook, by J. T. Bernsley,
published by Hugo Gernsback, New
York. Its 1000 pages are profusely illus-
trated. Instead of taking many things for
granted, the introduction delves into
circuit fundamentals, commencing with
tuned R.F. data and working along into
intricate circuits. Next comes the all-
important business of alignment of
receivers, control and indicator circuits,
power supplies, speakers, pickups and
’phone equipment, and the analysing of
commercial receivers. Test equipment is
dealt with in a manner which tells every-
thing necessary concerning the many
forms of testing apparatus that may be
used. The cathode ray oscillograph—
of such importance in laboratory work
to-day—is described, and practical appli-
cations in service work are shown. There
are numerous charts containing all the
information the serviceman is ever likely
to need; in the compilation of these
the latest metal
valves, now in wide-
spread use, are
fully recognised.
Although much of
the latter portion of
the volume deals
with replacement
and overhaul data
on commercial
American receivers,
the operating notes
and other details are
applicable in many
respects to Austra-
lian practice. One
of the most valuable
sections is that deal-
ing with the elimina-
tion of noise inter-
ference. This pub-
lication will 'no
doubt be available
in Australia, and is
strongly recom-
mended to the pro-
gressive dealer-ser-
viceman.
From Raymart Manufacturing Co.,
Birmingham, comes a handy combined
catalogue and manual covering the wide
range of high-grade transmitting and
receiving components under the Raymart
name. It is ample proof that all the
good things do not come from U.S.A.
Raymart products are represented in
Sydney by D. G. Mclntyre, of Price’s
Radio Service, Angel-place, and at time
of writing a large consignment of ceramic
insulated variable condensers of all sizes
is expected. These condensers are an
excellent job, with sturdy brass plates
and a single but perfectly-fitted ball-
bearing for the rotor. They are ideal for
all ultra-short-wave applications, having
a very low capacity minimum and giving
noiseless operation at the highest fre-
quencies. The thoroughly “amateur”
atmosphere surrounding Raymart pro-
ducts arises from the fact that the head
of the concern is the well-known GSNI.
The Question Box.
Please recommend a good make of receiver
( electric ) to cost not more than £2O ? —47...
No individual make can be recommended in
these columns. Any receiver advertised in The
Bulletin can be relied upon.
* X: =l= *
(1) Will the closing in of the back of a radio
cabinet for dust protection have any detrimental
effect? (2) Method of building up the lead
terminal of an accumulator which has broken
off below the level of the top of the case?
471. . .
(1) There must be ventilation to avoid over-
heating. Make a few spaced holes in the cover-
ing lid. (2) Drill and tap stub of terminal for
CONNECTED IN PARALLEL.
A technical term as visualised by a non-
technical artist.
iin. thread. Make a stud of this thread from
lead and lock it into position, taking care not
to overstrain or it will easily twist off. Fit a
nut to correspond and two washers.
* * * *
(1) 1 am considering building a pack
for the three-valve receiver, using two 58’v and
one 56, described in the “Radio Amateur s
Handbook.” Plate voltage is recommended at
200 D.C., but on referring to the chart of valve
characteristics 1 find that the plate voltage for
each of these three valves is 250 volts. Is this
important? (2) What power transformer voltage
would be needed 7 —470.
(1) No. The chart shows the maximum
recommended voltage, and it will be quite in
order to run the valves at 200 volts. (2) A
standard receiver type transformer at 385 volts
per side rated at 80ma. will be suitable. The
drop through the filter system will put the
voltage near enough for the valves.
-+ * * *
I have a small A.C. set with a separate
speaker, using Philips 1561, C 443 and E424N
valves. The valves may be falling off, as I
do not get the deeper notes l hear in other
receivers. Would the more modern Philips
valves add to the qualities of the receiver?—
468. .
Depends on what valves are used and how
they are used. It would be necessary to effect
alterations to a considerable extent, as these
new valves have the P base, calling for a special
socket. Without details of the circuit no sug-
gestions can be made as to valves that may be
suitable.
He * * *
(1) Enclosed is the tuning circuit of my three-
valve broadcast set. The three coils are loosely
coupled on a 3in. six-pin former, plug-in type.
What number of turns would be right, using 22
D.C.C., for shore waves from 10 to 80 metres?
(2) What value of grid leak should be used? —
467.
(1) With the large tuning capacity of
.00035mfd. tuning at 10 metres is not prac-
ticable, especially with the large diameter
former. You could cover from about 18 metres
up by making coils as follows: Grid coil four
turns, spaced about -jin. between turns; reac-
tion coil four turns, close-wound and spaced
|in from grid coil. This coil combination will
cover up to 45 metres. For the second coil,
use a grid winding of eight turns close-wound,
and reaction coil of six turns similarly. (2) A
smeg. leak should be suitable for the particular
valve.


») •
5^
A =
tzy
diVU
0-
m
V'-:0-
rr"
M
w
7>.
>.
vr
iV uutfc matiU^gxpxrpaJA.auiU
(IFGoUums
t&fetisz-
Scots CXJhisky
( r©v«o*# •»'••»'
yiiis masterpiece is (fyrfeciton*
ihe spirit he always serves .
arcoium-s
JAq U/A/sAy Js-
il rm
u
rjj
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
'IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
V
m
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
vlf % s>' „ O'
•# V
S'*
vO
0
*1
e
\G
>’ 9 ' .
\\®
-* * *
• . * •*
••■■',•■■■' .•••
o« VW
.S'"'


a/ //// r/Pf?e/uis
ON WHAT THE BALL
m
iltf 1111 " 11111111 -
\ \
/ i
-
%
vljes Mtinapps offer of
CASH BONUSES
Jar (fcrig/tt Jest Oriclet
IN the Test Matches—watch that ball!
It will have “a price on its head.”
Every brilliant manoeuvre it makes
will mean a cheque from Wolfe’s
Schnapps to some lucky member of the
English or Australian Eleven.
Since 1901, when A. C. MacLaren brought
his team to Australia, Wolfe’s Schnapps
have been associated with every series of
England v. Australia Test Matches, and
the Wolfe’s Schnapps Cash Bonuses have
helped to add interest to each incident of
Test play.
This year Wolfe’s Schnapps have aug-
mented their now famous Bonus Offer.
Memorise the list here, and Test play will
give you a still greater thrill. Keep your
eye on the ball—to see who gets the
biggest Bonus!
THREE MORE TEST MATCHES
THIRD TEST, Melbourne, Jan. 1-6
FOURTH TEST, Adelaide, Jan. 29-Feb. 3
FIFTH TEST, Melbourne, Feb. 26-Mar. 3
#
Don’t forget your daily Wolfe’s Schnapps. With
squash and a dash of sizzling soda it is the finest
of summer refreshers. Cools your b100d.... does
you GOOD!
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS BONUSES
£lOO
to any English or
cricketer who
record score of 334 runs
established by Don Bradman
at Leeds in 1930.
beats
the
£25
any bowler who performs
“hat trick” in any
tigs of the five Test
ches.
£lO
for every century (if com-
piled “within 150 minutes).
£lO
to both the English and the
Australian bowler with the
best average in the Tests,
provided he has played in at
least three Tests, and has
taken not less than 10
wickets.
é
r.
POLFE§|
Rchjedam I I
5
OLFE’S SCHNAPPS
"THE PUREST OF ALL GIN SPIRITS"
