

»
X
WINNING
COMDI NATION
Snapshot Satisfaction!
Kodak Films and Kodak Prints alike are products
of the world-wide KODAK organisation and its
vast resources —are backed by the name of KODAK.
Kodak pioneered dependable photography for the
amateur —to-day Kodak guards the quality of that
photography. For your own protection insist on
Kodak Films and Kodak Prints.
Have some of your choicest negatives enlarged by Kodak.
The results will surprise and please you.
/
3 £
' . ■■■;: ■
plilllMPP
v
' • v ' "4
' A
\ ■$
t ■ -• -
■'^v-
vm
'.a
Seiji
■<zm
wmm
s.
r/
y
fj&/
w.
*
*
9,//
A.
pes&
o/ /
v
V—,/
o
o
A
5a# 2
sP
r/
0
v
K:£
*
¥ Jr,*
? //y
<*fZ
T 4
*
*
ODAK
PRINT
ODAKV <|
PRINT/Vi
T
ODAK
PRINT
$
A
$&
k
For better
snapshots
load with the new Kodak
Films shown here.
Details on request.
ODAK
PRINTS
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aust.) PTY., LTD.
879 George Street, Sydney; Kodak Howe, 252 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l; 250—252 Queen Street, Brisbanej 87 Bundle
Street, Adelaide; jo Elizabeth Street Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also slocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen St., Auckland; 70 Princes St., Dunedin; 29j Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo St., Christchurch.
The Bulletin
King George and King Edward
Vol. 57,—N0. 2920.
e
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
HE!
fpJJTM
lim Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
~~ CET HEKE '\i> MAIL
l Lease send, without ohliaotion nnvr TPr**
lGpp. Illustrated Penmanship ProspecZ IxZainlna
your Muscular Movement System^ of Writina as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. • ltln °’ 03
My Name
My Address
S.B. 436 .
H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. I nor Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature. y
n„Kiswt tr a UStee K h ? ve M, ec i ded , a P y prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted-
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author rtiust accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SIXTEEN
VETERANS
[Here Mr. Fitz
Henry continues
his engaging
account of the
16 Bulletin vet-
eran st °ry-writers
ana poets he would like to have together
at a dinner. Restricting the choice to
men whose work had appeared in book
form, he in last week’s Red Page
arranged places for “Banjo” Paterson,
Will Ogilvie, Roderic Quinn, Randolph
Bedford, “Smiler” Hales, J. H. M. Abbott
and E. J. Brady.]
Ted Brady sings of windjammers; Bill
Lawson does honor to the steamship.
Bill’s verse—he has put out three or four
books—is known to many a skipper,
deckhand and man below. I once heard
an ancient mariner recite his “Ladies
m the Engine-room” in the Customs
House Hotel in Macquarie-place, while
his mate capped it with Bill’s well-known
Stokin’.” Bill Lawson also wrote a his-
tory of Pacific shipping which is a sort
of Bible to people interested in such
things. Like the late C. A. Jeffries, whose
By Rail and Semaphore” series made a
hit in The Bulletin 30 years ago, Bill
has also captured some of the romance
of the business of running locomotives.
There’s a fine piece in his poem called
“The Shunter.” Bill is another drifter
into journalism ; early he was an insur-
ance clerk in Maoriland.
Bernard O’Dowd and Arthur Bayldon
should get on well together. Bernard—
Victorian Parliamentary Draftsman after
a long period spent as Victorian Supreme
Court Librarian—was ably summed up
by A. G. Stephens in a personal note in
A Southern Garland, in which O’Dowd’s
Downward ? booklet is included:
O’Dowd is made of the stuff of prophets
and martyrs... .To his active, earnest,
ascetic mind no knowledge came amiss.
He was at once learner and teacher, study-
ing law, history and religion, interested
in spiritualism, socialism, Communism,
anarchism and mysticism, and holding
fervent Sunday classes in all manner
of subjects from poetry to ethics. As a
writer and lecturer he dabbled in politics,
compiled a Secularist service book called
The Lyceum Tutor, supported the Labor
movement, spoke for Australian indepen-
dence, helped to found “The Tocsin,”
penned verses and articles, corresponded
with Whitman and edited law books.
Of Arthur Bayldon, also a serious fellow,
a Gladstone (Q.) paper once reported:
Regardless of the fact that the swim-
ming-suit through some leakage admitted
the water, Mr. Bayldon decided to exhibit
next his champion backstroke. It is
marvellous in the extreme, and won for
him a great uproar of applause. He rolled
into the bath with legs and arms strapped,
and then, sinking within a foot of the
bottom, darted the whole length of the
bath at an amazing speed.
A list of his other occupations— apart
from the main one of writing sonnets —
would rival even the record of Sorenson.
Hugh McCrae was articled to an
architect, but “soon abandoned the rule
and compass to contribute humor-
ous drawings and serious verse to The
Bulletin. He is the only one invited
to this imagined dinner who has
had a drawing printed. I would appoint
McCrae as laugh-leader; “Mac” can
laugh more spontaneously and whole-
heartedly than any man I know. He
just throws back his large, handsome
head and a tremendous volume of
laughter issues forth, while puny
chucklers, like myself, stand and gaze in
wild admiration.
Like “Banjo” Paterson, Arthur Adams
was a Boxer Rebellion war correspon-
dent—but he never started a horserace a
Cheefoo. Also like “Banjo” and Roder
and some of the others, Arthur was
law clerk before he drifted into journal
ism. He drifted out of journalism for
spell and became a play-reader and pla
member for J. C. Williamson. He al
tried his hand at writing plays himse
and one, “Mrs. Pretty and the Premier
had a good run in London. It would ha
run longer, only one night a Zeppel
dropped a bomb on the theatre. Arth
is the only Australian author who h
reviewed his own book on the Red Pag
He wasn’t kind to it either.
E. S. Sorenson—S. H. Prior describe
him as “the shyest man who ever visitec
The Bulletin office” —was mindii
cows on Wooroowoolgen station whe
he was a nipper of eight,
year later he was working for a cor
farmer. At the age of 14 he was appre
ticed to a carpenter, and serve
for two years; then, in the space o
15 years, he was stockrider, farmer anc
dairyman, builder, fencer, bullock-drive
milk-carter, butter-factory hand, swag
man, drover, prospector, woolclasse
rouseabout, engine-driver, painter, bounc
ary-rider, book-keeper, shearer, race-clu
secretary and publican. Since the begin
ning of the century he has been
journalist, and he still writes for Th
Bulletin.
Years ago Sorenson had several MSS
awaiting decision in The Bulletin office
and dropped a further bundle in on
morning. Half-way down the stairs, h
was called back and asked to wai
Presently a boy brought out “a parce
from Mr. Archibald.” Ted carried
home in a depressed condition, thinkin
that all his efforts of months past hac
been returned. When he opened th
parcel he found the bundle was copy
paper—enough to last him six months
Archibald had noticed that his contribu
tions had been typed on the blank side o
an almanac!
C. H. Souter would find Ted Brady
and Bill Lawson good company, for he
has written much fine sea verse. He
picked up his nautical knowledge a
ship’s surgeon in his young days
Although born abroad, he ran wild as
boy on the Castlereagh, and there
acquired the love of the bush which is
so much in his writing.
Near Souter, as another hailing from
Britain—whither he has long since re-
turned—would need to go Albert Dor-
rington, whose Castro’s Last Sacrament
was published by The Bulletin. His
birthplace was Stratford-on-Avon ; anc
there is a Dorrington family legend of
a fortune-teller having predicted that
Albert would be a second Shakspeare.
Albert came to Australia as a boy of
16 after some schooling in Birmingham
that included boxing instruction from a
pug named Posh. (That would interest
Con Drew, who gets a place next to him.)
Like Arthur Bayldon, he became a can-
vasser, travelling out to Broken Hill, up
to Bourke, through Queensland and to
nameless places with a day’s walk
between waterholes. He sold goods to
lonely Chinese diggers, paid-off Kanakas
in the canefields and German settlers
around Tanunda, and peddled hats to the
half-caste mistresses of Afghan camel-
drivers and cameras to Japanese pearl-
shellers. In 1895 he began to write for
The Bulletin. He was so thoroughly
an Australian when he returned to Eng-
land that Fleet-street wouldn’t look at
his stories. A London editor, objecting
to his Australianisms, inquired: “What'
does ‘getting outside of a long beer’
mean?” Dorrington explained. “This
stuff may mean something to Aus-
tralians,” said the editor, “but it’s pure
Greek to my readers. Study the maga-
zine before submitting again.” Dorring-
ton did, and found it reeking with Ameri-
canisms !
I am counting on Con Drew to fell
his fellow-diners some of his fish yarns.
Con once rented an island in Sydney
Harbor, and got to know the fish pretty
well. He knows the boxing game, too ;
was a more' than average boxer in his
early days, and trained “Snowy” Sturgeon,
“Cocker” Tweedie and other good
scrappers. He hails from Queensland,
where his father was Auditor-General in
the ’nineties. Con ran away to sea as a
youngster, and visited most of the tail-
ship ports of the world. Then, following
several years’ bushwacking, he went to
the South African War. In 1898 he sent
his first contribution to The Bulletin, a
racy account of an Australian abroad,
and he has contributed stories and para-
graphs ever since. His linker, the
Grafter, The Doings of Dave and
Rogues and Ruses are Bookstall best-
sellers.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
Kipling in
Australia
Kipling havin
been baptiset
Joseph Rudyarc
his name will g
down to posterit
coupled wit
those of Joe Chamberlain, Joe Lyon
and Joe Stalin. J. F. Archibald’s con
tention that no person entirely satisfac
tory ever bore the name of Joseph seem
to be challenged.
Kipling revealed himself to Australia
as a shy, modest man. There was no
publicity stunt to mar his visit. He jus
wished to see Australia without attract
ing attention, and, apart from a Vic
torian Government dinner, he kept righ
out of social life, and neither lecturec
nor fell in with the plans of would-be
highbrow organisations to lionise him.
That Government dinner was a grea
success, largely due to the stirring Im
perialistic speech of welcome delivefec
by the Vic. Premier of the day—J. B
Paterson. On the day previous, Tom
Gilchrist, political writer of the “Argus,"
was having his usual interview with the
Premier, when Paterson observed: “I’ve
got to preside at a dinner to-morrow
night to a man named—um-um-um”
He turned over a bunch of cards. “Here
it Rudyard Kipling. Who is this
Kipling?” Gilchrist concealed his sur-
prise. “He’s the great poet of Empire,” he
explained. “He’s written all the verses
about the glories of the Empire and that
sort of thing.” At Paterson’s request
Gilchrist did a little tutoring, and Pater-
son absorbed the lesson well. Next night,
when the time came to propose the health
of the guest, he arose and said, “Mr.
Kipling and gentlemen.” Then he
paused. His face hardened and he
roared forth: “ ‘What should they know
of England who only England know?’
Who of us, when we first read those
words, did not feel tingling through our
hearts,” etc., etc. Paterson was an apt
pupil, and there was not one present
except Gilchrist who did not regard him
when the speech ended as a profound
student of Kipling, and one who had
been reading his works since the first
issue of Plain Tales.
The “Argus” offered Kipling £loo—
unheard-of sum in those dark days
of journalistic rewards—to write the
introduction to the Melbourne Cup
story. Kipling declined. “I’m here for
a holiday,” he replied. But a few even-
ings later he asked that the reporter
doing the Melbourne Trades Hall Coun-'
cil meeting should take him there. Kip-
ling sat down the same night and turned
out a solid column, for which he refused
to accept a penny. It was a fine bit of
satire, but so hopelessly biased as to
make it ludicrous to all who knew the
facts. At that period “Billy” Trenwith
—later good-as-Labor State Minister and
Federal Senator—was a member of
the council. Kipling held him up to
ridicule as a cheap, claptrap soapbox
agitator, though everybody who knew
Trenwith or had heard him speak real-
ised that, whether as the Labor man h
was originally or the Liberal he be
came later, he was one of the most abl
debaters and brainy men Australia hac
ever had in politics.
In Melbourne Kipling became ver
friendly with Donald Macdonald, of the
“Argus,” and never missed a chance to
gain something of value to his work in
casual conversations. Macdonald was an
enthusiast on the subject of the seaside
hamlet of Lome (Vic.) and the Otway
forest near by. He mentioned to Kip
ling that he spent all his holidays there
and extolled the beauties of the place—
all of which duly appeared later on in
one of Kipling’s poems. Macdonald
went as far as Adelaide with the poe
when he was leaving Australia, and a
one railway station went to the book
stall for some works which Kipling
had offered to autograph. “What sor
of a writer is this Kipling?” asked Mac-
donald of the boy behind the counter of
the bookstall. The boy glanced at Mac
donald’s companion. “You’d better ask
Mr. Kipling himself,” he retorted.
When the Commonwealth was inaugu-
rated, Kipling wrote a verse which was
duly cabled from London to the Aus-
tralian dailies. One of the many cable
operators, through whom the message
passed, made a mistake in one word, and
the line appeared that the “Young
Queen” Federated Australia had
“blood splashed on her bridal,” not
bridle, as it should have read. Kipling
was very sore, and blamed the Aus-
tralian papers. There was some corre-
spondence before the Empire’s poet
ceased rolling his eye in fine frenzy.
During the Boer War Kipling went out
to South Africa and there met “Banjo”
Paterson. He described the meeting in
one of his articles; and of Paterson said,
“He rides like an angel.”
M. G.
A. G. Stephens was one of the most
trenchant of Kipling’s critics, and might
have been called the world’s leading
authority on the sources of the “Reces-
sional,” which was written for the
“Times” on the occasion of Queen Vic-
toria’s diamond jubilee. A.G.S., in a
Red Page article which has been widely
quoted—in Thurston Hopkins’s book
among others—held up Francis Quarles’s
“Lord God of Gods, before Whose
throne” written in the mid-seventeenth
century as an original ancestor, and set
down Emerson’s:
And grant to dwellers with the pine
Dominion over palm and vine
beside Kipling’s “dominion over palm
and pine.’ lines. But Stephens thought
that D. L. Richardson’s “Khoond War
Lyric —“God of Battles, O Forgive”—■
might have been the direct source of
inspiration.
J. W.
Tolstoy and
Gorki
Gorki’s study
of Tolstoy in-
cluded in his
book Tro i s
Russes, recently
published a
general French edition, is surely one of
the most remarkable tributes ever paid
by one writer to another. Properly
speaking, it is not a study, blit a collection
(Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
ANTHONY
liofthiKN
n
■77
gLLfljiJgg
/ 'i vv
/c ' >
m
m
m
(a.
£6/5 OAK LOWBOY
This is certainly a
demonstration in keen
value! The "Com-
mander” Lowboy in
specially-selected Oak
è
is unusually capacious and splendidly
fitted; height, sft.; width, 4ft. Bin.;
depth, 19in. The right side is fitted
with hat shelf, three sliding trays and
sliding trouser rack. The hanging
space on the left measures 33 inches.
Price . £6/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each,
£4/10/-
£24 - .. AUTOMATIC
SEWING MACHINE
The “White-
Sewing Machine,
fully enclosed in
the newly-
designed s i t-
strate automatic
é
drophead cabinet. This beautiful
cabinet is made in our own factory
from specially-selected woods; highly
polished Walnut veneers, attractively
finished. Inside of door are two
drawers for holding sewing requi-
sites. With set of attachments.
Rotary shuttle. Price £24
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
£22/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
PITT, GOULBURN AND
GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 312401. Postal Address:
Day and Night. Box 2712C/G.P.O.
75- EASY CHAIR
The kind of Easy Chair
which will lend an air of
luxurious comfort to the
lounge, living room or
bedroom. It is sturdily
ê
constructed and beautifully upholstered.
Seat, back and arms are well sprung.
Price 75/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . . 56/6
Also without cushion. Price .... 65/-
Sale Price 47/6
sm
mi
pa
&
rffa-rviVicSj
?rsv»t---^£
m
!=■£
F*Q
i
a
n
in
at
JO
m
m
£22/10/- 3-PCE. LOUNGE SUITE
The “Kent” Three-piece Lounge Suite
in good quality Tapestry. Comprising:
Settee, 6ft. 3in. overall and two Easy
Chairs. Backs, seats and five loose
cushions resiliently sprung. Several
ë
designs. Price, £22/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, £l5/10/-
“The Senior
Store ”
ē
While I Live I’ll Grow
ĕ
TilU.llllllim
£39/10/- 4-PIECE BEDROOM SUITE
The “Palace” handsome Bedroom Suite in
beautiful polished Walnut. Comprises: sft.
Wardrobe, two-thirds hanging space and one-
third fitted three sliding trays and two roomy
shelves. 4ft. Dressing Table with unusual
shaped rimless mirror; fitted two cupboards
/.
/
■with three sliding trays in each. Commodious Lowboy and 4ft. 6in. Bedstead
to match. Price, £39/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, £35/15/-
SLm-i
77/
=r?s'''\\
o
ZJrCT
'wM '- -•
I
a <*.
m
s?
r,
fi-Sa
ss£
£9/7/6 3-PIECE LOUNGE SUITE
An amazingly low price for
a smart, well-constructed
Lounge Suite. The backs
and seats of each of the
three pieces are well-padded
and strongly sprung. Hand-
a'to
/
some bentwood arms are beautifully polished a rich
brown. Upholstered in good quality Tapestry.
Price, Suite £9/7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7/<IQ/-
Chairs, separately. Price, each 56/-
Sale Price, each 39/6
DISCARD THAT OLD MATTRESS —WE CAN SUPPLY A RETTER
v ' * " ~ i '
£6 2 6 "HORDURA” (regd.) TUFT-
LESS MATTRESS
A splendid Sale offer. The “Hordura” Tuft-
less Mattress covered with Belgian or floral
ticking and filled with best Japara Kapok.
A high-class mattress. Size, 4ft. 6in.
ė
Price, £6/2/6. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each".....
THO*'*’
£4 9 - KAPOK MATTRESS
Kapok Mattresses covered with
strong Blue and White Union Tick-
ing and well filled with the best
Japara Kapok. One size only, 4ft.
6in. Price, each £4/9/-
We
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price., each
£2/19/6
• Furniture—Third Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.


m
m
m
if
v I
magS
1111 l
m. &
in
■i
■
■
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture, together with
informative paragraphs concerning the subjects dealt
with.
The unusual portrayal by a Master Photographer
and the reproduction by Photo-Lithographic Printing
make Zoo People a book of great interest to young
and old and a welcome addition to your bookshelves.
We commend this book to you as a work that reflects,
in a striking manner, and one hitherto unattempted,
the beauty, strength and quiet philosophy of many
of the “Zoo People.” Only great patience and the
nerve and ability to obtain “close up” photographs
of these interesting “folk” made this possible.
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
PRICE I'6 (Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
• m
' V f* .
y ; 'V ! ': .
of notes made during various stays
Gorki made with Tolstoy in the country,
implemented by a long letter written on
the occasion of the great man’s death.
But, brief as the material is, and lacking
any pretension to be considered a full-
length portrait, a very vital image
emerges, a sort of brilliant sketch-por-
trait, the more striking because Gorki
has made no attempt to conceal the fun-
damental differences which always built
a barrier between them. Due only in
part to the wide divergence in age be-
tween them, these differences were serious
enough to cause real pain to Gorki,' for
the older man was not always just to
the younger, despite his reputation for
benevolence.
Nothing, no criticism, however unjust
or bitterly expressed, seems to have dis-
turbed Gorki’s conviction of the great-
ness of the “giant” who was Leo Tol-
stoy, “the most complex of the great
men of the nineteenth century.” That
colossal man,” the “indefinable beautv
of whose language” was unforgettable,
inspired in him an astonishment which
never wavered. He could inspire also
“a sentiment bordering on hate.” Yet
Gorki felt an irresistible desire to cry
“Look. What an astounding man is
living here among us!”
He was often unkind to Gorki. A
young writer less sure of himself than
Gorki, less certain of the greatness of
his critic, might have been seriously dis-
couraged, especially in the atmosphere
of almost sentimental appreciation for
Chekhov engendered by Tolstoy. Gorki
was accused of reading too much, of
being “bookish,” a disturbing accusa-
tion for one of his aims. He was hurt
enough to protest that he did not think
himself any more bookish than Tolstoy
himself. Then he was told he was a
much better raconteur than a writer, a
subtle defamation for which the remark
that .he was a “real moujik” could hardly
have compensated.
Worse still, he was an “inventor.” Of
one of Gorki’s characters which Tolstoy
approved he said: “That is not invented.
It is good because it has not come out
of your head. But when you set your-
self to imagine you beget only cheva-
liers, Amadis and Siegfrieds.” It is true,
he added, “all of us are terrible in-
ventors,” and included “even” himself.
With Tolstoy the assthetic moralist and
Tolstoy the evangelist Gorki had no sym-
pathy. “What has always separated him
from me,” he wrote, “is his obstinate,
despotic tendency to transform the exis-
tence of Count Leo Tolstoy into the
life of our Holy Father the Blessed
Boyard Leo.”
Gorki saw, too, the essential tragedy
of Tolstoy, and Tolstoy was perhaps
aware of his prescience. That a great
artist could write, as Tolstoy did in his
latter days, that he had “suffered keenly
from the temptation and the sin of writ-
ing” affected him intensely. “There is
no case in the history of humanity so
sad,” he writes ; “at Jeast, I do not recall
a single great artist who ever arrived at
this conviction —that art, the most beauti-
ful of human realisations, is a sin.”
A tragedy indeed. But one that, for-
tunately, only assumed its acute phase
after its victim had already given us
War and Peace and Anna Karenina; the
tragedy, in any case, of a great man, with
therefore something sublime in it, of a
man, to quote Gorki once more, “so
much above other men, so much more
powerful, that they appear to him like
gnats and their activities ridiculous and
pitiful.”
BASIL BURDETT.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Antony The Earl of Lytton.
This Torch of Freedom .. Stanley Baldwin.
The Wooden Pillow Carl Fallas.
F t RST put together for private circu-
lation, Antony, by his father the
Earl of Lytton (Peter Davies; Angus
and Robertson ; 13s. 9d.), can be guaran-
teed to make anyone who reads it im-
mensely grateful that its author was per-
suaded to yield it to the larger public.
As a private family memorial, a father’s
monument to his son’s memory, it is
singularly fine; it is a literary achieve-
ment also. It could have been written
only by one nurtured in the finest tradi-
tions of culture: the slightest false step
would have been disastrous. It records
the brief, brilliant life of Antony Kneb-
worth—childhood, Eton and Oxford, be-
ginning of a career, M.P. in the hugely
victorious National Government of 1931,
and then death in a practice air display
in 1933, just short of his thirtieth birthday.
The story —not in any sense a depressing
one, but a bright account of a glamorous
young life —is told chiefly in Antony
Knebworth’s own words through the
many, and uncommonly good, letters
written to his parents and others. Lord
Lytton’s faultless commentary threads
these into a continuous narrative, giving
here and there his own advising, letters
to his son, which Sir James Barrie in an
introduction describes as the best letters
of the kind ever written. In Lord Lyt-
ton’s words, Antony Knebworth “always
lived dangerously, and had taken the
best that life could give.” In this record
of that life is presented a figure repre-
sentative of nearly everything that is
fine in English character, and addition-
ally a picture of a social life that has
hitherto been the keystone of English
culture.
Another figure of that life, with its
cultural influence in every sentence he
utters, is Stanley Baldwin, 37 of whose
occasional speeches are gathered under
the title This Torch of Freedom (Hodder
and Stoughton ; 14s. 6d.). No compli-
ment is intended in saying that if the
speeches have any fault it is that they
are too short. Too brief to allow explor-
ing more than one or two salient aspects
of a subject, they lack the finality, the
sense of something completely dealt
with, leaving nothing more to be said,
which is a mark of great oratory, as it is
of great writing. This fault is mitigated
by the arrangement of the speeches in
groups of about five speeches each, all
sufficiently related to permit regarding
the whole group as one speech. In any
case, they all make capital reading.
They are clear utterances of strong
simplicity—no mistaking a sentence of
any of them. In all Mr. Baldwin speaks
not as a politician, but largely, as an
Englishman, and undercurrent to all the
speeches are a wide knowledge and under-
standing of the English national charac-
ter and a deep attachment for English
ways, places and institutions.
Those who prefer a novel to be at
least a novel —outside the common
mould —will find that requisite, at any
rate, in The Wooden Pillow, by Carl
Fallas (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Set in
modern Japan, it acquires a cherry-
blossom charm for itself, mingling a
friendly, understanding account of
Japanese manners and characters with a
gracefully told tale of a young English-
man’s temporary love episode with a
Japanese girl. It is a brief novel, and
might have been briefer still with advan-
tage, some myth passages serving little
purpose in the story. It will be remem-
bered by its readers, however, more for
isolated chapters than as a whole ; some
of these chapters supremely lovely in the
picturing of setting, lively with excellent
character touches and gay with whimsi-
cal humor, this last of such a kind that
it is at its best in the description of the
grave-digging and burial service for two
young victims of a Japanese death pact
—not the hero and heroine ; their way
out is not so exacting, though just as
final, perhaps.
4
Fires in May, by Ruth Feiner (Harrap ;
7s. 6d.). The writer, a German girl,
daughter of a theatrical producer and
playwright, who has lived in London
since Hitler came along, tells of a Ger-
man girl, whose brother was a producer,
who is forced by the Nazis to flee to
England. So much —her overwhelming
loneliness, her gradual feeling of secu-
rity and then of liking for the strange
country—is convincingly done, but the
commonplace story, romance with the
son of a millionaire, is thereby made
only the more irritating.
Hero Stories of New Zealand, by
James Cowan (Harry H. Tombs, Ltd.;
7s. 6d.), is the work of a man who, now
Elsdon Best has gone, is the foremost
living white authority on Maori lore and
traditions. Born on a farm that included
the site of Orakau pa (where Rewi thun-
dered his great defiance “Friend, I shall
fight against you for ever and ever”),
Cowan from his earliest years sought the
company of old Maoris and listened to
their stories. In this volume he has
assembled 37 epics of the pioneer days
of the white occupation of Maoriland,
flinging back in the teeth of the writer
of a preface to an anthology of short
stories by Fernlanders the words “Our
country lacks the romantic material
usually found in a new land. We have
had no frontiersmen, no struggle with
mighty forces. Our settlement victory
was prosaic and swiftly won.”
Tales from the Tyrol, by Olga Wat-
kins (Blackwood ; 4s. 6d. net). The writer
knows and loves her Tyrol—its clear, ice-
blue streams and heaving mountainsides.
Her picture of the economy of the
peasant farmer, his pride and his idiom
are true enough to life, though she has
divested him of some of his rudeness
and of the mediaeval odor which is apt
to mark even a landed aristocrat when
he regards a bath only as an occasional
medical necessity. She does not like
Mr. Hitler, and where she errs on the
side of mercy towards the Tyrolese
Bauer she does more than stern injus-
tice to the Germans who penetrate her
Arcady.
Dead in No Time, by N. A. Temple
Ellis (Hodder and Stoughton ; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d;). Quite interesting detectiving.
The remains of two bodies, one that of
an elderly Egyptologist, the other that of
his nephew, are found in the ruins of
the Egyptologist’s house after it has been
burnt down. That of the younger man
has a bullet wound through the skull.
The problem—ostensibly—is to prove the
uncle died first; otherwise the nephew’s
widow gets nothing from the estate.
Penguin Books (Bodley Head). The
excuse of not being able to afford to read
good modern books can’t hold with these
well-printed “complete and unabridged”
vols. selling here at about 9d. each. A
new batch includes The Thin Man,
Dashiell Hammett; Erewhon, Samuel
Butler ; The Strange Case of Miss Annie
Spragg, Louis Bromfield ; Debonair, G.
B. Stern; Patrol, Philip Macdonald;
South Wind, Norman Douglas; The
Purple Land, W. H. Hudson ; The In-
former, Liam O’Flaherty; The Edward-
ians, V. Sackville-West; Four Fright-
ened People, E. Arnot Robertson.
Jamie Simpson, by Laurence Oliver
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.),
deals in avowedly fictional form with
the early career of Sir James Simpson,
pioneer of the use of anaesthetics in sur-
gery. Beyond that it debits the famous
physician with an illicit love affair and
with complicity, as a boy, in. a body-
snatching excursion, matters on which
direct evidence would be hard to get, the
story has a truthful ring about it. Various
characters—particularly that of Sandy,
Jamie’s elder brother—are very sym-
pathetically drawn, and the novel forms
a most readable biography.
The Writers’ and Artists’ Year-Book,
1936 (A. and C. Black; Angus and
Robertson ; ss. 3d.). The freelance who
seeks markets overseas will find this well-
compiled Year-Book of considerable
help. Its main feature is a list of Eng-
lish and American papers which accept
outside contributions ; editorial require-
ments and rates of payment are given.
Lists of book publishers, literary agents,
film and play producers and many in-
formative articles are included.
He Who Sees, by Noelle Roger, trans-
lated from the French by Robert Lan-
caster (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). Lord Duncan, a
dabbler in mysticism, acquires ability to
see into the future, and the story of his
terrible disillusionment, told by his friend
Dr. Savigne, makes uncommonly good
reading, with Duncan’s attempts to cir-
cumvent fate in a sceptical world and
his struggle to retain sanity under the
burden of his knowledge holding interest
through to a surprising twist of climax.
Excellent of its kind, and smoothly
translated.
The Devil’s First, by E. A. Aujard
(Allan ; 3s. 6d.). Tale of life in a sub-
marine in the Pacific during the war,
with a mixed British and Australian
crew. Early it drags, but from the
moment the “coffin-ship” dives it is a
gripping yarn. Mock heroics and melo-
drama avoided, the crew’s reactions to
finding themselves trapped on a coral
reef deep down, with faint hope of get-
ting out, are capitally suggested.
Argh: The Tale of a Tiger, by M. E.
Buckingham (Country Life ; 7s. 6d. net).
Finely produced, with arresting photo,
illustrations, this story for children will
not be despised by their elders. The
reality of jungle wild-life is well cap-
tured.


I
I
<
m
■■■
m W: ' • m
W 8&. % ' **
tm
'm^yi:
**& ?■&*s*&'''# \
:■:■:■■■■■■■
m
i
/
■
%mmm
::, ... ij: •'
v :: ::
HMSSsn
• .:
.
:
; ■
Evening Thirst
e
There’s satisfaction as well as fatigue in
the evening thirst. A man deserves, as
well as needs, the cheer of a quick Vickers
to set the seal on the day’s work ... to
revive his energies ... to establish a
good beginning for the clock-forgetting
hours.
è


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■IIS -I'*,
.. • • "• "v"
;, ft-
r> f
wm Qy„. .
\
:
■
I
I
*
I
B 1
■"... i m
" • V $
•* • ••; £
1
IKI
m
' -• I
l t/rr —f ;
~.rj a
ss
>
i I
4 ft.
■f
...-. •••■■
■ft ■
ill.: ~-»y.
fty ft
IH
Ipli
£ g
m :.
■1
ft
m
, I V':
■
, m
ftvftft'ft-'Vft
■ft
H
M?-
R : H
■
Mi
...
r
■
■ ; ftft y
■HH
111
;; i
-ft'ftft "
. ...
W!m&k HHL** " y mH/' '■ '
ft-
mm
■
111
I
-ft
f' -ft
i
f M
W ‘
H
. ■ .ftftftft
. .': ' : V
ft 'ft
' H :
B
ft ft
ihK mil
H
Urn
■ pit/,
# ftft ftft ftSft
IB .
ms
,-V:
a
■
ft.-*
v 7
mmmkxi
mm
£ M
■ft; ft.rftft •./
■ ■ -.
Bi
■ ■•" * •••
>■:„
mmm
H
I ■■■
11 ft ;
o.m l m
Wfflm
m
m
am
:
Shipment of Para to London from Seppelt* s cellars, which hold over 4J million gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2920.
January 29, 1936.
AS ONE OLD SOLDIER TO ANOTHER.
“Best of luck to y’, Dig—l mean y’r Majesty—an’ try to make your Ministers understand that Europe isn’t the earth.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, T3.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. id.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s •
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebi ides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
GEORGE V. AND EDWARD VIII.
King George was by no means outstandingly popular
when he came to the throne. He had been over-
shadowed for many years by his father, that most
amiable of sportsmen and men-of-the-world. Because
of the feeling that he had been kept under by the
old Queen, Edward, Prince of Wales, had drawn the
sympathy of all classes, and held it when there was
no longer any occasion for it. There was never any
occasion for such sympathy in the case of George,
Prince of Wales; thus the father was regarded with
a chivalry which was not extended to the son.
Calumny did not spare Edward, the heir-apparent,
but was silent during his reign. It immediately struck
at his blameless successor. W. T. Stead, of the
“Review of Reviews,” disposed of one stupid slander
by demonstrating, with irrefutable logic, that an
excessive drinker could not be a dead shot, as the
new sovereign indisputably was. To scotch the story
of the Malta marriage, a criminal-libel action was
' necessary. In this, after the libeller had been found
guilty and sentenced, a signed statement denying the
whole story was read on behalf of the King, and it
was added that he would have categorically denied
it in the box had precedent permitted.
The public was naturally impressed with the
fortitude exhibited by his late Majesty in these trying
circumstances. Nevertheless, he found popularity a
plant of slow growth ; and when he achieved it he
had to share it with his eldest son. He was too good
a father to resent this ; indeed, there is every reason
to believe that he delighted in it, though probably in
his relations with his family, as with his people, he
was never one to wear his heart upon his sleeve. As
the years went on he became the object of increasing
devotion, based on respect for his fine character and
decent family life, as well as on veneration for the
institution in him preserved. It was reserved for his
Majesty to lead his people through the greatest of
wars and set them an example of self-sacrifice, of
cheerfulness when things were going badly and of
unfaltering confidence in the ultimate triumph. While
European kings were flying in all directions, his throne
stood like stone.
A feeling likewise grew that, while never pretend-
ing to be an intellectual giant, he had more political
wisdom than the supplest of the politicians who sur-
rounded him. It became known that, but for his
personal representations, the Irish business, unsatis-
factory as was the settlement reached, would have
drifted into something immeasurably worse. And it
was largely because of the exertions of the King that
a national Government was formed to grapple—as it
did successfully—with the crisis of 1931. In one
other respect King George showed true wisdom. He
realised that his successor would require a first-hand
knowledge of the Empire and understanding of world
conditions greater than he had been able to acquire ;
and he saw that the heir-apparent got them.
So it comes about that Edward VIII. ascends the
throne with a training such as no other English
sovereign has had. Soldier, traveller and man of
affairs, he has seen millions of his people and talked
with thousands in regions that his grandfather never
knew. He is familiar likewise with the Americas
and their inhabitants, north and south. He has a
stock-farm in Canada. Many of our American
cousins are his friends, and the Argentinos and
Chileans look upon him as almost one of themselves.
What is equally important, the new King has
learned what an unspeakable calamity war can be.
Neither Edward VII. nor George V. desired war,
and each strove to avert it; but neither was brought
up to regard it with the horror that it inspires in our
generation. Edward VII. must have known warriors
who fought at Waterloo, and was familiar with times
when even Tennyson glorified battle. George V.
mixed with the conquering generals of 1866 and 1870,
and had his own memories of comparatively brief
campaigns, very profitable to the winners. Such
experiences his son can never have.
King Edward VIII. served in France, and knows
war for the fearful thing it is ; knows too, from his
travels that it is capable of inflicting cruel losses on
and arresting the development of countries half a
world away from the scene of the quarrel. And he has
had unrivalled opportunities of learning that, if the
Dominions are to grow in strength and in capacity to
provide homes for the younger sons and daughters of
the overcrowded Motherland, they must have a long
peace. In other words, that they must not be dragged
by provocative pacifists in Britain (paradoxically, the
most obnoxious of the breed are those known in
other days as “Little Englanders”) into European
wrangles in which no British Commonwealth interest
is involved. Freedom from “entangling alliances” is
as necessary to them' as it was —and is—to the
Americans who treasure Washington’s farewell
address, whether entangling alliances are openly made
to preserve the balance of power in Europe or dis-
guised as a League to enforce peace —on the basis of
the status quo —by going to war.
Edward VII. was a European. George V. was
an Englishman—so devoted to England that, unlike
his grandmother and his father, he refused to leave
it in winter for milder foreign air that, as it now
seems, might have prolonged his life. The Dominions
claim Edward VIII. as a British Empire man.
IMMIGRATION AND IMBECILITY.
According to the Federal Opposition-leader and
the Premiers of three States, any renewal of immigra-
tion is impossible while Australians remain unem-
ployed. As unemployment cannot be entirely abol-
ished in any modern community while there are people
who can’t work and others who won’t, it thus appears
that Australia’s population is never going to get any
reinforcement from overseas —not, at least, while these
politicians and their followers are able to prevent it.
Their outlook is that every newcomer must either put an
Australian worker out of a job or join the Australian
unemployed. It is an entirely wrong and stupid
outlook.
The immigration years 1921-1929 brought into
Australia a net increase of European population
amounting to 314,582 persons, of whom over 80 per
cent, were British. At the beginning of that period
union unemployment rates were not very much lower
than those of to-day. With the increasing flood of
immigration, at the rate of 40,000 or so yearly, the
unemployment figure kept on falling, until in 1927
it was only 7 per cent. It is perfectly clear from this
that heavy immigration figures do not involve high
unemployment rates, but rather the reverse.
As the circumstances in Australia and abroad
which eventually resulted in the depression years
began to cast their shadow, immigration slowed down.
As it slowed, the unemployment rate rose. By 1930 it
had risen to 19.3 p.c.; by 1932 it was 29. The immigra-
tion flow had ceased by then, and emigration had set
in. The facts show that a low immigration rate does
not mean a low unemployment rate —again quite the
contrary.
But the true value of new population coming into
a country is not to be estimated merely in terms of
net units of entry over exit. A large proportion are
young adults who begin, very soon, to contribute to
the natural increase of population. During the nine
years of heavy immigration Australia’s natural
increase was never under 68,000 in any year. In
1922 it was over 86,000. By 1934, four years after
immigration ceased entirely, it had fallen to 47,240.
Since 1930 we have also suffered a net loss by
emigration of nearly 20,000 persons.
These, important as they are, do not comprise all (
the advantages obtained from immigration in the ”
past, or to be obtained from it in the future if
commonsense ever prevails. Each employed new-
comer contributes to taxation, buys food and cloth-
ing, buys or rents house room, travels on trams or
trains or cars and ships, and otherwise contributes
to the general sum of progress and prosperity in Aus-
tralia. Ranters who allege that every job that
Australia can afford to pay for is already filled are
uttering false and misleading evidence against their
neighbor.
No more group-settlement schemes, of course,
unless the British Government or British companies
undertake the financial responsibility; but thousands
of British immigrants could be employed to-morrow
in our rural industries and in domestic service with-
out displacing one employed person. The shortage of
domestics is known to every city-dweller who has
tried to get one. Farmers in all the wheatgrowing
States have found it difficult to obtain harvest labor.
There are openings in Australia for British miners
(Mt. Isa is the latest company to complain of “the
dearth of skilled labor”), British factory-hands and
British fishermen. If Australians won’t gather the
harvest of the seas that wash their shores Japanese
will. They have begun already.
THE MAN IN THE GREY CLOAK.
Ten minutes to eleven on a chilly November morning.
For days the new Constitution of the British Common-
wealth of Nations had been in its birth-throes. It was
what London calls “a fine day for this time of year.”
A fleece of cloud broke every now and then, to let
through a pale sunlight which made the naked trees
of St. James’ Park beyond the wet Horse Guards
Parade look more bare.
Below us lay the region of the Kings—paths in
which Britain’s 39 monarchs since the Conquest had
walked: Norman William from his camp at Berk-
hamstead to his kingdom ; Rufus to his bier in New
Forest; John to Runnymede; Henry VIII. to his
honeymoon at St. James with Anne Boleyn ; Elizabeth
to her palace at Sheen ; Charles I. to Whitehall. Gulls
hovered over the lake Charles 11. had made beside
the Stuart playground in the Mall, and the horizon
marked Kensington, where George 11. was robbed in
his own palace garden ; where Victoria was born and
awakened one cold dawn to be told that she was
a queen.
Across the mist-wreathed park, Buckingham
Palace stood, its square facade broken by the white
lines of the Victoria memorial which recalls all the
dominions in its features. But we did not see this
clearly, for between lay the crowds —black crowds,
packed and tense, from Birdcage Walk to the yellow
Regency Carlton House Terrace and a tall monument.
The monument commemorates the Grand Old Duke
of York ; near it Robert Scott stands in effigy in polar
wrappings, seeming to shiver away from the pale front
of the Athenaeum and the galaxy of Indian heroes
who are remembered with him and John Franklin in
Waterloo Place. Veering to the left over the tracery
of stark trees, the eye caught the lines of Piccadilly
and the plunge of the four horses on the Wellington
arch on Constitution Hill.
All this and its surroundings have been the play-
ground of time for 1000 years. Here is “liquid history.”
Here, the idea of Empire had its first being, and here
its completeness now was being buried in a dingy
room, to be reborn as a Commonwealth of equal
nations.
A few minutes before there had been a glint of
brass and the music of the glorious second movement
of Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony, played by a Guards
band, had been wafted to us. Then, at the far end
of the yellow Mall, near the Palace, hemmed in by
the crowds, there had been a sudden stir, which rippled
forward along the massed heads in pace with an open
carriage. In the distance the vehicle looked tiny;
but we could see the figures in it, and the
trotting horses of the outriders, and the dull glint of
swords held high. And we could hear the murmur
swelling, a slow organ chord which rolled and eddied
down the long corridors of the great government
building in which we stood.
We turned to walk towards Parliament-street.
Here were more crowds, such crowds as can be seen
nowhere else in the world —not in the Place de la
Concorde or on the Templehof. A dark, solid, patient
mass, black hats picked out with currents of brighter
female millinery, filling all the space to Palace Yard
between the white and soot-streaked buildings which
are the heart of England, flowing out into a dun sea
in Trafalgar-square.
Here, too, was the tall simplicity of the Ceno-
taph, with its sculptured wreaths and its red, white
and blue banners hanging on it like the glory of
sorrow come to life. White, ordered lines of marine
helmets, grey-coated Guards in their high busbies,
drum-majors and the little choirboys of the Chapel
Royal, in scarlet and gold, stood about it, and ranks
of Air Force bugles. And just beyond it a double
line of men in dark civilian clothes.
Asquith was there, white and leonine; and long, old
Balfour of the drooping shoulders ; Austen Chamber-
lain ; Bruce, his war-wounded leg flexed to ease the
strain of the great wreath which he carried for Aus-
tralia ; bluff Mackenzie King, of Canada, loaded with
maple from his own park ; Hertzog, a sombre Boer
ruling a new British Golconda of the South ; at the
end of the row, Beatty and Birkenhead.
The bells of Westminster pealed, and the voice
of Great Paul came thundering over the city in the
east, his notes rolling up the Thames. Over all lay
an air of waiting.
A quiet figure in a grey cloak and the cocked
hat of a field-marshal walked down the steps of the
Home Office. Bearded and dignified and without haste,
he came into a space and stood aloof from the other
groups around the Cenotaph. Then, taking a wreath
’ from an equerry, he laid it gently at the base of the
pillar. As he moved, the crowds stirred afresh as
the words were whispered back to those who could not
see: “The King is here.” He stood at the salute for
a moment, and stepped back between his sons—
Edward, so like that other Edward, the Sixth, whose
features the genius of the Tudor age has preserved
for us on canvas ; York, slim in the blue, tight uniform
and dark plume of the Air Force.
Suddenly the note of Big Ben striking eleven was
in the air. Pigeons and gulls wheeled, the muffled
thud of a gun broke like a heart-throb, and in a
moment London died in a pulsing silence. There
was something awful in the stillness of that multitude
centred in the white, slim monument and the quiet
figure in grey.
Easy to believe that this quietude reached to the
Poles, to the hot pavements of Sydney, and the dank
Bund along the Whangpoo, and the high veldt, and
the lonely Falkland Isles by the Horn. It seemed an
age before the concussion of the gun set the Air Force
bugles tearing hearts with the “Last Post.” Beside
me I heard sobbing, and the reveille rose like a
dawn, and the scarlet-and-gold boys’ choir was spftly
singing “O God, Our Help in Ages Past.”
A voice gave a sharp command. The massed
bands broke into “God Save the King.” The crowds
stiffened to attention. The aloof figure in the grey
cloak standing there in the centre of his nations turned
quietly as the last notes died far away in the echoes,
and walked up the Home Office steps. The most
moving pageant which the world sees was over till
next year.
Soon the crowds had broken into steady tides
flowing towards the homely palace in the west, where
a distant glimpse of a rearing police horse, a flurried
blackening with figures of the white plinths of the
opposite memorials and a quickly suppressed cheer
told us the King had come home.
And now London had gone home, too —to homes
impoverished by the great strike which a few months
before had almost paralysed the country without shak-
ing the throne, to great hotels where the delegates of
the younger British nations were planning fresh free-
dom for themselves, to green-bowered country houses
which had sheltered English families for a thousand
years, to the great town mansions and clubs of
Mayfair. , „ , , ~ , ,
Soon there was nothing left but the blue and the
scarlet and the green of the memorials against the
white background of Lutyens’s pillar, onlookers pass-
ing up and down Whitehall in the black coats of
the English well-to-do, and, where the King had stood,
an old lady in a Victorian bonnet, head bowed over
a row of medals on her bombazined breast.
M. H. E.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
From Old Virginia
One suspects that historians will reject, as forced
sentiment and vamped-up eulogy, much of the news-
paper stuff that has appeared this last week. But they
are pretty certain to pause at a resolution adopted by
the legislature of Virginia when the old King lay
dying:
The daughter is not yet separated so far from the
mother as not to learn with the deepest concern and
anxiety of the King’s illness and to pray earnestly for
his restoration to health.
A real contribution to history that, spontaneous
and generous. One of the few features of the Great
War that were not bad and mad is that it reunited
all English-speaking people in a common cause. For
a period, altogether too brief, old feuds were
forgotten; 1775 and 1812 were as mists that blow
away. The resolution of the Parliament of Virginia
nobly recaptures the spirit of that time, and is a
touching reminder of the fact that a maternal ancestor
of the King whose life was flickering out signed the
Charter of Virginia in 1606.
We of one of the new Dominions salute the old
Dominion!
*
“Australia Won’t Pay for Brains.”
Australian travellers abroad hear this wherever they
go, and wherever they go they meet brainy Aus-
tralians who have become exiles for no other reason.
Governments are the worst offenders. Recently
The Bulletin drew attention to a glaring case of
professional sweating; a department of the Com-
monwealth advertised for a man . required to possess
highly-specialised university qualifications, offering a
salary disgracefully small. Here is another example:
Applications are invited for appointment to three
positions of examiner of patents, grade 1, patent,
trades-marks, designs and copyright offices, Canberrj;
salary £276-£443 per annum. Applicants should possess
a degree in electrical engineering or, alternatively for
two of the positions, a degree in science. In the filling
of the three positions. preference will be given respec-
tively to (a) experience in radio communication, (6) in
design and manufacture of thermionic and photo.-electric
devices, and (c) experience in television [/] and allied
sciences.
Full particulars of training and experience should
be furnished, and applicants should state the extent
of their knowledge of French or German.
In other words, the Commonwealth needs the
services of a Bachelor of Engineering or of Science,
skilled in the newest and most baffling of the applied
sciences—transmission of moving objects by radio—
and able to speak French or German like a native.
And the commencing salary is a fraction over £5 6s.
a week.
If professional men are to be forced to accept
such salaries, what is to become of the next genera-
tion of technical men? On such pittances professional
men could not afford to educate their children above
the sub-secondary standard.
The advertisement appeared in the “Common-
wealth Gazette.” Published on behalf of a Govern-
ment which has millions to spare for bounties, grants,
Federal-aid roads, royal commissions, sinecures for
ex-politicians and pay-increases for tall poppies, and
which can send two-thirds of its members junketing
around the world, it is a national disgrace.
#
“The Policy of the Paper.”
“M. Turlutu”: Why puzzle over “What reason may
lie behind this frantic unreasoning” of warmonger-
ing by the daily press (B. 15/l/’36)? A successful
daily newspaper must, of necessity, be a successful
business organisation—that is, it must earn an
immense gross income in order to carry on, and a
substantial net income to satisfy its proprietors or
shareholders. Its main source of profit is from selling
advertising space.
But people will not buy mere advertisement
catalogues—something extra must be added to season
the dish for which they pay their pennies. This is
provided by the Literary Side: editors, reporters,
cable-jugglers, special writers and the rest. Their job
is a twofold one. First, they maintain a mystic
vision of something called Public Opinion, of which
the paper employing them is the sole reliable exponent
and guide; for the rest, they have to provide News —
that is, a selection of local and other events or sup-
positions, chosen and presented in the manner which
they consider will best please the majority of the
people among whom the advertisements are intended
to circulate. If they do not succeed in this they lose
their jobs on account of Not Properly Expressing the
Policy of the Paper.
The public likes plenty of interest and excitement
in the stuff thus supplied to it as bait for the ads.
The utterances of the paper’s tribal god are expected
to embody a Strong Stand for or against something.
Interest and excitement in news columns are best
worked up by starting a row. This is technically
termed Making It Snappy. The public dearly loves
to watch a row, whethep a street row, a domestic row,
a cricket row, a political row or a war row. If no
row is immediately available it is often necessary,
from a business point of view, to create one. Out-
side the laws of libel and slander, possible conse-
quences don’t matter. Circulation Must Be Kept Up.
Magnify the moronic squabbles of professional
players of a child’s game into affairs of national
import, howl of Oriental Menaces when some tinpot
Japanese newspaper plays the same trick, scream
insults at a rattled dictator who need only give one
crazed order and Europe will be plunged again in
war —but Keep Up the Circulation or Ads. Will Drop.
♦
Education Which Is Partly Free.
For two generations Australian States have plumed
themselves on their education systems —“free, secular
and compulsory.” At one time it is probable that
Australia was far in advance of most other countries
in the facilities it provided for educating its children
and adolescents. There are now many indications
that some of those other countries which started from
a back mark have caught and outstripped us.
A commission now sitting in Melbourne to inves-
tigate the payment of royalties on schoolbooks has
elicited facts which prove that the system has many
weak points. In Victoria, at least, it has never been
“free.” Children have to find their books and equip-
ment. In Britain, in the advanced lands of Con-
tinental Europe and in the United States payment for
books and equipment has long been abolished. In
America the books of high-school pupils, as well as
those in primary schools, are paid for by municipali-
ties, which there control education, while State
Universities, which charge no fees, also provide books
and equipment free.
In times like the present the parents of many of
the children are quite unable to pay for the books
required. What happens then is that the teacher,
sooner than see a promising child drop back through
lack of the necessary books, hands them out on
credit, with the usual result that he has to make good
the cost out of his own salary. It is not that the
parents are dishonest; it is that they simply haven’t
the money.
Incidentally, politicians generally got a bad time
from President Fryer, of the Vic. Teachers’ Union, at
its annual conference. The Argyle Ministry, he said,
arrested educational progress and degraded educa-
tional standards. The Country-party leader did not
mention education in his policy speech, and the Labor
party, furiously as it condemned the Argyle policy,
had done nothing, though it had stood behind the
Country-party Ministry for nine months.
♦
Government by Bogeyman.
“True Thomas” hits out:
By whom is the country governed? Certainly not by the
intelligent mass of the people. Government by political
auction, which is all that the caucus system amounted to, has
given place to government by bogeyman. N. S. Wales is ruled
to-day by a phantasmal dictator named Lang.
When the nominal Government, whether headed by a
Stevens or a Lyons, wishes to do any arbitrary act, should
the so-called representatives of the people make the slightest
demur, one mention of the bogeyman’s name and mice are
as roaring lions to them. Under the present mechanised party
system, what improvement can be hoped for?
Parliamentary government is rotting at the root. “Parlia-
ment, of which I have the honor to be a member, is what
the people make it,” used to be a platitude; now it is a lie.
Under the present party system Parliaments are practically
elected by coteries behind closed doors.
We have a law purporting to protect the purity of the
ballot-box. That law has been virtually abrogated, for
Parliaments are now elected by party wire-pullers, whose votes
may be begged or bought, with the Electoral Act looking
helplessly on. That is how the party candidate is chosen, and
the choosing of the candidate represents the election of the
member. _ Not that it matters much how he is elected if his
duty is simply to run to the support of his party when the
cry of “Bogeyman!’’ is raised. The man-in-the-street has come
to value his tongue-in-cheek franchise so lightly that he has to
be flogged to the poll with the lash of the Law.
Some system will have to be devised under which the
legislative function of Parliament will not be subject, as it is
now, to the keeping of any particular set of men in fat jobs.
That is the first spanner to be thrown into the works of the
newfangled party machines by which democracy is now in
danger of having its very soul crushed out. And the sooner
someone with a straight eye picks up that weapon and takes
aim the better.
¥
The Torres Strait Kind of Strike.
Torres Strait does not lag behind the rest of Aus-
tralia in the matter of shipping strikes.
Boy blong island bin tink big-pfeller Gubment
along Thursday Island wantem too much altogether
money blong boy workem that pfeller company boat.
Boy workem that pfeller master boat he bin gettem
money blong him from master. Good pfeller that
master. Boy workem company boat, he bin gettem
only lilly bit money blong him, and lotter yabber
from that pfeller Gubment ’bout boat blong that one
boy, blong island blong boy all same, so big-pfeller
Gubment him takit money that pfeller boy say that
boy got pay for boat blong him.
No savvy that pfeller talk; boy tinkit cranky
talk that fashion. Boy wantem same fashion along
master boat; he savvy plenty what money blong
boy. Big-pfeller Gubment him no savvy ; him no
work along boat; him all time have sit-down blong
him spread out that pfeller cheear.
So boy blong island no bin workem that pfeller
company boat no more.
*
Ways That Are Dark.
When the war broke out there was a rush in Aus-
tralia for specialists. Any schoolmaster with a little
German, any technician found work waiting for him.
That was largely because the technician had not been
encouraged N in the A.M.F. and the specialist was
almost unknown. Thousands of weary hours had
to be wasted in training material which should already
have been trained. But there was no lesson for the
Commonwealth in that. The specialist to-day gets
as little encouragement.
A radio man in Sydney, well beyond the infantry
volunteering age, has learnt this lesson. He went
through the last war ; he is an expert motor mechanic,
and has a national reputation in the radio field. He
joined the Signal Corps, taking a junior commission,
and found himself with 24 youngsters on his hands,
all keen but without the A B C of operating. Their
officer decided in his spare time to give them special
training—he even arranged to put his hand in his
own pocket to buy a prize for efficiency.
The enthusiast has his own amateur station and
callsign, but amateur wave-lengths were not suitable
for his purpose, since the extent of the work which
he proposed to do might have caused interference
on existing experimental bands. He therefore asked
the G.P.O. for permission to use his own station on
military wave-lengths—which are well out of the way
of other traffic —with a special callsign for training
his men. The reply was prompt:
I am directed to inform you that the department
cannot allot you an exclusive channel in order to
transmit Morse for the tuition of signalmen in the
military forces, and that the department is averse to
the use of a channel for this purpose, as numerous
frequencies have been allotted and there is a likelihood
of interference being caused to other services.
How communication in channels between 4.5 and
6.5 megacycles with a station operating only periodi-
cally and using frequency stabilisation on a fixed
allocation could interfere with other stations only
the P.M.G. knows. But that does not matter so
much. The point of real interest is that Mr. Brown’s
minions are “averse” to the use of military wave-
lengths for training signalmen of the Defence Force.
If war comes there may be only a few volunteers
who can operate. But didn’t the blacks use signal
fires?
4
A Northern Territory Plan.
From A. M. Blain, member for the Territory:
The Bulletin (8 / 1 / ’36) hit the nail on the head about
the N.T. Whatever the merits of chartered companies, I
think public opinion is against them, and public opinion
must always be considered in such matters.
Nobody is more zealous to see the Territory developed
than I am, and nobody knows more about its possibilities
than I do, since I have surveyed a great deal of it and
valued a great deal more. Adjacent North-West Queens-
land country of the same type I have also valued and
surveyed.
I sympathise with lessees who are holding on under great
difficulties when they might make a better living by coming
to the cities. At the same time, they are a drag on the
lessees with richer land.
These arc my ideas for N.T. development: (1) A
C.S.I.R. economic survey, district by district. (2) Development
from such survey of a scheme for each district in regard to
mining, pastoral subdivision, grass improvement, provision of
water and a stocking policy. Overstocking has wrecked many
properties. , . , ,
On the basis of the C.S.I.R. report, there might be estab-\
lished experimental development areas controlled on A.W.A.
tines, as ihe Bulletin mentions. The idea could, of course,
be applied as well to mines worthy of assistance.
The Commonwealth should not intervene in develop-
ment unless private enterprise is deficient or inadequate,
but there are cases where it must lead. In all such cases
it should use the C.S.I.R. as its medium. The C.S.I.R.
survey should make it reasonably clear what costs will be,
over what period development will extend, and what will be
required in the way of reduction of taxes and freight charges.
My impression is that the country which should first be
tackled is (o') the best of the Barkly Tableland and the Vic-
toria River region, ( b ) North-West Arnhem Land and some
country west of there. .
In one case, you have a nucleus of investment
and established —if not prosperous —stations; in the coastal
belt there are waterways running into the very heart of the
country, each with agricultural lands along its banks, and
each capable of providing cheap communication.
A road system, from which settlement could radiate, near
the heads of these rivers would seem to be justified at an
early stage, but everything should depend on the survey.
When a scheme emerges from the survey, there should be
a change in Administration. . .
What the Territory requires is a commercial manager,
with a local council to help him govern; and he needs to be
left alone so that he can frame a continuous policy.
The North is not a problem to be settled between election
and election or by visiting civil servants. It is a man-sized
job for pastoral experts and highly-qualified mining men.
KING GEORGE.
Where the grey Thames winds on by vale and lea,
Where Windsor’s stately towers their vigil
keep
Over the storied shrine of sovereignty,
He rests with kings—none kinglier than he—
Sleeps where his fathers sleep.
Hard by, another court, so runs the tale,
Its habitat in shadowy ages had;
Here royal Arthur sat in knightly mail
Long since, with Tristram and with Percivale,
Gawain and Galahad.
Legend, perhaps? Heroic sagas wound
And woven about figures dark and dim ?
Yet, could their spirits haunt the hallowed ground,
Who is there doubts the very Table Round
Would rise to honor him?
Kings there have been more rich in courtly grace,
In shining eloquence or subtler arts,
But who before him made and kept a place
So real and so regal to the race,
So near his people’s hearts?
In war or peace a nation’s stay and guide,
He made his own their joys, his own their
cares;
On blood-soaked fields he might nQt stand beside
His children, but—as his the deaths they died;
The life he lived was theirs.
Ever a king! What more can be expressed
In all the flowers of speech that statesmen
bring ?
The simplest words of all are surely best:
God bless the King!—the King who lies at rest —
Aye, and God save the King!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
é
the S.A. and of the Great Australian
Bight. In very rough seas the chief
sent him along one day to repair
a winch. He stuck it for a while,
despite the fact that waves were com-
ing aboard every few minutes which
would have drenched him to the skin
had he not already been soaked by the
driving rain. At last he gave it best, and
sneaked back to the warmth of the
engine-room. “Too wet!” stormed the
chief. “What d’you think you are? A
hot-house plant?” “No,” came back the
wet but ready one. “And I’m not a
blasted water-lily, either.”
* * * *
“Slop”: People have short memories.
If “Globe Trotter” (B. 22/1/’36) was in
Sydney during the recent southerly buster
he should know why Sydney folk do not
go about in shorts and shirts or the
allegedly lovely white duck many would
like to see them wearing. The plight of
a clothing faddist of this type caught in
a howling southerly rainstorm with the
temperature dropping 40 degrees in as
many seconds is not an enviable one.
Many a bad dose of pneumonia has
been due to this less-clothing foolishness.
* * * *
“Tavete”: Nothing very staggering
about Makin’s statement (B. 22 /1 / ’36)
that Abyssinian slave raiders keep Brit-
ish ’planes and patrols busy expelling
them from British East African terri-
tories. The ’planes are something new
to the writer, but Kenya, which is the
chief sufferer, has to maintain a per-
manent force of the K.E.A.R. on the
Abyssinian border year in and out. Little
is ever heard of the business except by
people who have East African interests.
Protests innumerable have been made
to the Emperor, but the excuse is always
the same —he cannot control the wild
border tribes of his allegedly Christian
realm. The raiders don’t take slaves
only ; if they have time they lay waste
the countryside. Old men, women and
children not up to slave requirements are
butchered and left to the hyenas.
H? % ifc *
“Visitor”: The most striking thing
about Adelaide’s development is the
advent of business to decorous North-
terrace. It is still the same pleasant
boulevard, with a garden all along the
north side, and behind that Government
House, Public Library, University and
so on. But the south side, formerly all
doctors’ residences (which latterly have
been subdivided into sets of consulting-
rooms) is steadily going upwards, dwarf-
ing the Bank of N. S. Wales and the
Adelaide Club, which retains the solid
stone three-storeys that were the last
word in architecture 60 years back.
Bagot’s Trustee Cos., Goldsbrough Mort,
the Liberal Club, Verco Building and
Gawler Chambers, all have skyscraping
offices to let. Their windows rake the
old-time seclusion of Government House
garden as effectively as any hovering
’plane.
* * * *
“Lorelai”: Whether intentionally or
not, Kipling attached a penalty to Kim
that has precluded any Anglo-Indian
from claiming to be the prototype of that
intriguing character. Fiction is full of
the handsome English hero who assumes
the disguise of a Sikh or Pathan and dis-
appears for a time to bring off some sen-
sational scoop. Actually, there are few
Europeans who can turn native in India
and get away with it. It is imperative
that one should have been born in the
country and imbibed the native outlook,
the intricate customs and
tricks of speech, with his
milk. Beattie, Chief of
Police at Quetta, is one
who possesses most of the
attributes of Kim (B.
22/1/’36), and his un-
canny skill at disguising
himself and mingling with
INFANT: “Aw, leave off rockin' the darn thing
an let a bloke get some sleep!"
the natives when any particular in-
formation or evidence is required has
given him a reputation that extends
far beyond Baluchistan. But I have
personally heard Beattie indignantly
deny the insinuation that he is the proto-
type of Kipling’s famous character. Kim
was a half-caste.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: It seems a pity to fault
a good story, but “Colonel B.” (B.
22/1 /’36) shouldn’t have made the Trans,
express the scene of George Reid’s snor-
ing exploit. George never had the chance
to travel by it. He went to England as
Australia’s first High Commissioner in
1910, long before the first sod of the
line was turned, and after filling that
billet for nearly six years gained a seat
in the House of Commons. He never
returned to Australia after leaving it.
Wherever Reid may have snored and
growled at other people for snoring it
certainly wasn’t between Kalgoorlie and
Port Augusta.
* X ❖ f:
“R.D.”: There was quite an old world
touch about that function in Melbourne
at which the J. E. P. Howeys, visitors
from the U.K., entertained “the tenantry”
(B. 22/1 / ’36). The tenantry on this occa-
sion, however, were not gaitered farmers
or yokels in smock frocks but Collins-
street businessmen who occupy the
skyscrapers of the Howey estate. The
latter-day Howeys who own the
property, worth literally millions, are
distant relatives of the original Howey
who bought the block at the corner of
Collins and Swanston streets at the first
Victorian land sale. Howey never saw the
land. He lived in Sydney, and was on the
point of forfeiting his deposit, having
been advised that it would cost more than
its value to clear the block of gum-trees.
At the last moment he decided to have
a look at his property first; accordingly,
he and his family set sail for Melbourne.
The vessel was lost in Bass Strait and
they were all drowned. The block went
to his next-of-kin in England, and the
distant relatives rake off the profits.
Henry George was in Melbourne once,
but I suppose nobody gave him the tip
about the Howey estate.
* * * *
“Hassan Pasha”: According to Gervas
Huxley, an emissary of the international
tea-market expansion board who is now
in Australia, the Australian troops in
Egypt taught the natives the art of drink-
ing tea, to which they have turned from
the traditional coffee of the land. It may
be so, but the Gyppos certainly intro-
duced to the Australians tea in a form
never dreamed of in the great outback
or in Sydbourne shops. After the evacua-
tion the Light Horse regiments were
dotted along the western edge of culti-
vated Egypt from above Cairo to
Assouan. Part of the job as far as
officers were concerned were friendly
calls on the mayors of the townships and
other notables. Invariably the callers
were regaled on tea in small glasses,
weak, heavily sugared and full of
chopped mint. Etiquette demanded that
one should drink at least half a dozen
glasses of this, and by the end of an
afternoon of calls one never wanted to
see the stuff again.
* * * *
“Col. Bungstarter”: Mention of Mos-
lem ceremonial slaughtering (B. 15/l/’36)
recalls a choice row in the Calcutta muni-
cipal markets years ago. A holy man
who begged at the entrance was regarded
by Moslem butchers as a final authority
on whether an animal was really and
religiously alive. Invariably it was, and
the holy man’s fee was small. He died
one day at his post of duty, and the griev-
ing butchers, proclaiming him a saint,
buried him there and then, declaring the
grave a shrine. The Hindu market super-
intendent protested that the new shrine
filled up a large part of a main entrance.
He barely escaped alive. During a ter-
rific uproar in the municipal council
it came out that the saint was a
low-caste Hindu who had spent most of
his life in gaol. But the shrine was still
there when I last saw Calcutta.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Kipling’s ashes will rest
in the Poets’ Corner of Westminster
Abbey, as is his due. The only thing
that puzzles me is how the Abbey
authorities continue to provide burial
space for famous men. When Browning
died in 1889 somebody discovered that
there was only room for about two more
coffins in the hallowed shrine of the
race, and it was suggested that St. Paul’s,
less crowded, would have to be utilised
for such a purpose in the near future.
Two years later a royal commission was
appointed “to inquire in regard to the
facilities for the interment of illustrious
persons in Westminster Abbey” ; its re-
port, according to the reference books,
was “indecisive,” but apparently it found
that conditions had been exaggerated.
Certainly there have been interments in
the Abbey since that of Tennyson in
1892 and Gladstone in 1898. Thomas
Hardy was laid to rest in Poets’ Corner.
* * * *
“T. 8.”: Our hopeful, who is quite
young enough to know better, arrived
home from school one day sniggering
cheerfully. Asked what had amused
him, he told how the history teacher, no
longer in her first youth, had been drum-
ming “1066 and all that” into the class.
She held up a portrait of Charles I. “A
strong face, children,” she remarked. “1
don’t think it’s very strong,” objected a
rebellious lad in the front row. “Non-
sense, child! Of course, it is. Look
at the firm lips and the strong lines of
the mouth.” “I still don’t think they’re
very strong,” the lad persisted. The
teacher completely lost her rag. “That’s
quite enough,” she finished snappishly.
“I know more about men’s lips than you
do!”
“Bob Sawyer”: Lord Howe
Island should surely have a
resident medical officer. Last
week a steamer was deflected
from its course to save a life
there —not for the first time.
In remote inland parts of Aus-
tralia there is a good chance
of an urgent message bringing
“the flying doctor,” but the
islanders are out-
side his beat. A
Government sub-
sidy would, of
course, be neces-
sary to establish a
practitioner there
—a Galen could
hardly make any-
thing approaching
a living out of a
healthy community
of 120 or so, even
if he took his fees
in Kentia palm-
seeds —but where
life and health are
concerned the ex-
penditure of an
annual couple of
hundred or so
would be a small
thing for a Gov-
ernment engaged in
splashing up mil-
lions in sewerage
schemes. And
plenty of young
doctors would
probably jump at
the chance of a
steady billet, how-
ever far from the
madding crowd.
Sixty-odd of such were turned out full-
fledged by Sydney Uni. the other day.
* * * *
“L. de F.”: The so-called hit-and-run
motorist is usually regarded as a
cowardly criminal, but occasionally he
is supremely ignorant of having caused
harm. I lately saw a farmer drive slowly
down the street, his attention on a cer-
tain store. Just before the car stopped
a boy ran in front and was knocked
down by the bumper-bars. The car
stopped, with the lad underneath. The
driver got leisurely out, slammed the door
and walked into the store quite oblivious
of any mishap. An excited onlooker
called his attention to the boy crawling
(unhurt) from under the back of the car.
The owner registered genuine surprise
and not a little indignation. “What the
hell’s he doing monkeying under my
car?” he exclaimed.
* * * *
A Sydney tram-conductor, from his
footboard:
One would have thought, following the death
of “the Boy Gunman of Redfern” (B.
15 /1 / ’36) and a policeman’s narrow escape,
that the departments concerned would have
made some attempt to stop footboard-riding,
except on our part. They haven’t lifted a
finger to stop it.
There are three classes of footboard-riders:
(1) boys; (2) poor devils without the fare, and
(3) flash hoodlums. The first class is the worst
for our peace. The boy is afraid of the con-
ductor, and the conductor is almost afraid to
look at the boy lest he jump into a tram coming
in the opposite direction. The most irritating
is the hoodlum, who, not satisfied with his
athletic prowess, gives passengers and the
guard the benefit of his gutter wit.
The footboard in areas well and unfavorably
known to both police and tramway depart-
ments is helping to breed a type that is undesir-
able in every sense of the word. A clean-up
campaign is urgently needed. The footboard
has more to answer for than the lives of a few
conductors.
ENTER THE RED HEAD.
“In London, according to a recently returned
actress, the blonde has been definitely outed in favor
of the red-head.’’
Ah, me! Among more notable events
Ponder on this and muse, the while you scan
The item, on the fickleness of gents.,
The utter inconsistency of man.
The dreamy blonde displaced the bright
brunette;
For many a year she’s queened it, fair and
fond;
And now in turn at last her match she’s met —
The red-haired damsel elbows out the blonde.
Was Helen, would you say, the sort of dame
Whose hair was of the hue that’s reckoned
hot?
Had amorous Cleopatra locks of flame?
Sometimes she’s featured so and sometimes
not.
No artist limned them in their little day;
No Titian ever painted Rosamond
In life. And what’s it matter, anyway?
She’s had a pretty lengthy spin, the blonde.
No more, where fashion’s arbiters discuss
What tint of mane is the accepted thing,
Will “ginger” be a term invidious
Or “carrots” carry an unkindly sting.
The tresses like a blazing coal that glowed,
Once viewed askance, touched by some magic
wand,
Are metamorphosed, mister, made the mode;
The mop of russet supersedes the blonde.
Times change, and tastes. Man’s errant fancy
turns
From locks of gold or flax or platinum
ë
ē
T. THE R.


ê
“Stop laughing, Mrs. Finucane! You re supposed to be a nymph
pursued by a ravening satyr.”
of Girls); also as Maidens’ Island. The
Englishman Captain Daniel, of the
London, was almost certainly there 15
years before Vlamingh, in 1681. .Not
much is known of Daniel, but he was the
second Englishman whom records pre-
serve as having sighted the Westralian
coast, and his chart of the Abrolhos was
published by Dalrymple.
jjc jp
“Binduli”: “Smiler” Hales (B.
22 /1 / ’36) and the long-deceased F.‘ C.
B. Vosper were rival editors in the early
days of Coolgardie, and occasionally
frounced each other with all the vigor
exhibited by Potts and Slurk at Eatans-
will. “Smiler” was the better at straight-
out invective, but Vosper excelled him
at cutting satire, and it was after one
of these exchanges of compliments that
Hales, stung beyond endurance, surged
into the “Miner”
office and called on
the editor to put
up his hands. It
was an unequal
contest, “Smiler”
being something
of a pugilist and
Vosper a peaceful-
looking democrat
with flowing locks
quite incompatible
with a rough-and-
tumble, but I don’t
recall that any real
damage was done.
“Smiler” himself
made some sort of
an amende later in
characteristic style.
Vosper had an-
nounced his candi-
dature for Parlia-
ment, and Hales
decided to put in
a good word for
his old antagonist.
“W e are not
exactly going to
fall on his neck,”
he wrote —“we did
once and very
nearly broke it—
but we wish him
success.” Vosper
got in.
* >’<t
“Pitt St.”: What
are the rights of
the paying pas-
senger on a pub-
lic vehicle (B.
15/1/’36)? Joined
a crowded bus, and,
after a struggle, obtained a doubtful
square foot of floor on which to stand,
hanging to an overhead rail. Two seats
in front were occupied by four large,
uniformed, cheerful cops. I said to the
conductor, “Why don’t you make them
stand and let paying passengers sit
down?” “You make ’em,” was his sig-
nificant reply.
*l*
“S.G.”: No one thought of inviting
me to the actual crowning of King
George, but I saw the coronation pro-
cession from a guinea seat outside Buck-
ingham Palace —and discovered when
my ticket had been collected that I could
have seen it equally well for five bob.
Some features of the royal progress have
faded from what I am pleased to call
my mind, but others remain—impres-
sions of the King, looking very serious;
0 f the Queen, in every respect a fine
WO man (the photographers of those days
q U jt e failed to do her justice), and of
* e facas of "if yolm f P rin “ s ‘ But
thmg 1 ieca . mos J; vl^ ldl Y was
the tremendous cheering for the Crown
Prince of Germany ; and pressmen told
me afterwards it was the same all along
the route. A trifle more than three years
later he was “Little Willie,” the “Clown”
Prince ; and thousands of the Londoners
who had cheered him were facing his
soldiers at Mons and on the Marne.
“Mudurup”: Police departments aren’t
the only ones which depend largely on
informers for their lucky “scoops” ; and
they aren’t always mercenary informers,
either. A band of Chinese tried to
smuggle themselves into Australia as
“ You're nothin but a gold-digger
“I certainly struck a big buck reef when I met you”
stowaways. Their detection in the coal-
bunkers of an incoming steamer at Fre-
mantle and the work of pulling them out
of their hiding-places —some of them un-
able to walk because of their enforced
privations—provided some sensational
copy. It was never mentioned, however,
how it was that the Customs officers
knew exactly where to look for them.
Actually, the gaff was blown by an ill-
spelled and badly smudged anonymous
note slid under the door of the Fremantle
Customs office, a document so crumpled
and dingy-looking that even the office-
boy scanned it dubiously before includ-
ing it in the morning’s mail. And the
heads themselves weren’t at all certain
at first that it wasn’t some sort of a cheap
hoax. However, they decided to take
a chance, and found the tip a straight
one. Who the informer was, and what
was his object in giving his countrymen
away, will probably never be known.
“Selma”: Snoring has killed
many a romance. I shared a
room with a girl who was smitten
with an American. He went off
on a sight-seeing expedition, ex-
pecting to be away a month. A
week later the landlady appeared
one night in dressing-gown and
slippers just as we were about to
retire, and apolo-
getically mentioned
that a belated guest
had just arrived un-
expectedly and
would have to be
accommodated on
the small balcony
near our room. She
trusted he would not
disturb us. He did ;
neither of us slept
at all owing to the
nasal performances
of our neighbor. In
the dim dawn my ex-
hausted room-mate
sat up. “Fancy
being married to
that,” said she, indi-
cating the direction
whence the devastat-
ing snores came. It
was not until we
heard the unknown thudding away to the
bathroom that we ascertained his iden-
tity. That American could never under-
stand why the girl turned him down.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: A Sydney paper whose
boss is a knight came out with the in-
formation that Edward VIII. is “the first
bachelor King of England since William
Rufus, who was slain by an arrow in
the New Forest in the year 1100.” The
cableman corrected him in a later edition,
stating that the last bachelor king was
George 111. As compensation for men-
tioning that matter of the arrow, which
seems inappropriate, the paper might
have added that within a year George
111. had taken a wife, and that the lady
he had wanted to marry was one of the
Queen’s bridesmaids—it would have
given a romantic touch to its revised
version. Now let me in with my original
contribution to royal history. Edward
VIII. is the first clean-shaven sovereign
since the fourth William. Royal beards
went out with Charles I. and returned
with Edward VII. I wonder whether
they will ever come back again.
* * * *
“Ex-P.B.L”: “Missing” soldiers do
sometimes turn up (B. 4/12/’35). Our
English regiment was having a sticky
time one morning in ’l7 up in Lone Star
Post (opposite Tower Hamlets); after
one particularly vicious “strafe” the
C. reported that two of the best
men in the company were missing. They
were close cobbers, “Broncho,” an ex-
cowboy from Texas, and “Zulu,” an
ex-jockey from South Africa. No one
had seen them killed, wounded or blown
up —they had just vanished, and were
duly posted as missing. Fifteen years
later I was striding along a shady street
in Papeete when I heard a voice chortle:
“Sa-ay! Ev it ain’t th’ old skip! ” The
voice was the voice of “Broncho” ; beside
him was the grinning face of “Zulu.”
Their yarn was told over tall glasses.
“Broncho” had a girl in Abbeville, and
wanted to see her badly ; “Zulu” went
with him, more from habit than anything
else. After making Abbeville too hot to
hold them, they wandered off in civvies
to Marseilles. There they persuaded the
skipper of an Italian freighter, bound for
Bombay, to take them on as deckhands.
From India they got to Singapore, and
thence to Brisbane, where they managed
to desert and enlist in the A.I.F. In
due course they arrived back in France,
where each man finished up with a
D. and a M.M.
* * * *
“Oloc”: The most enterprising hawker
I have ever encountered has been for
months past decorating Sydney suburbs
with white-enamelled notice plates. The
black letters read: “Hawkers Not
Admitted”; the plates cost a shilling,
and he affixes them gratis. If turned
down, he calls and calls again, till, m
desperation, the householder buys one
to keep him out.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: An accidental inclusion
in the butcher’s meat to-day caused me
to think how much the ductless glands
—little lumps of unimportant-looking
tissue about the throat and brain and
kidneys—influence animal lfe, particu-
larly the human animal. They are the
source of high courage, crowd-domina-
tion, pugnacity, moral relativity, all the
factors of the superman. Or of the war-
maker, if glandular excess coincides with
political opportunity. Or of circus giants,
proverbially stupid, if the pituitary gland
overwhelms the others. Mainly it is
their influence which makes a coward of
one and a hero of another in the face
of danger. If the thyroid gland fails to
function properly, a brilliant man may
change in a few months to a heavy slug-
gard, dull and thick-witted. Replace the
missing secretion from animal sources,
and he will change back to almost, though
not quite, his original self.
% * *
“Benares”: One often hears a woman
spoken of as “worth her weight in gold,”
but I never heard of anybody using the
idle phrase ever going on to estimate
what would be the precise equiva-
lent of solid flesh in hard cash.
It has remained for that saintly
sportsman the Aga Khan to throw
some light on the subject. This potentate,
in conformity, it is said, with an ancient
custom of Rajput princes when they feel
in a benevolent mood or when some
great occasion, such as a jubilee, war-
rants it, has had himself weighed in the
scales against bars of gold in order to
determine the precise amount of his pro-
jected gift to needy members of his creed
in Asia and Africa. The sum worked
out at something over £25,000, which has
enabled some statistician to calculate that
the Aga is well over 17 stone. This ought
to create a distinct prejudice in favor of
heavyweight rulers in Rajputana, even
though the Aga isn’t a ruling chief there.
* * * *
A. F. Dunn writes:
“Inkosi” (B. 15/1 /’36) is quite wrong when
he states that John Dunn, who became a Zulu
chief was an Irishman. The subject of his
paragraph, my grandfather s brother, was a
Scot and of the clan MacPherson. He was a
shin’s surgeon, who, with the captain, left the
boat at a South African port and wandered
inland. For services rendered to the British
Government during the Zulu War, John Dunn,
after Cetewayo had been overthrown and de-
norted was given a grant of the Zulu king’s
territory Apparently he took over the control
of the inhabitants of that territory, including
the women and children. The number and
pedigree of his own children are not likely to
be found in Debrett.
THE DEMIGOD.
I>m sick of all the tripe that’s penned
About the gods of cricket—
You’d think the world was at an end
When Bradman leaves the wicket.
Then there are wizards with the cue,
And pugs to battle toddling—
Each pastime has its giant who
Sets paper-stainers twaddling.
And don’t forget the tennis-kings,
Like Crawford, Quist and Perry:
I’m weary of the vapid things
One reads about them —very.
These stars of field, ring, court and baize
May win the blurb of pressmen,
But he who earns (and gets) my praise
Is that unyielding brave who plays
A dauntless game with chessmen!
ė
P.O.M.C.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
Ik
e
4
16
20/
or
9
10/
or
J. 854
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CIGARETTE
#
i
m
W
1
mm
THIS GENERAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Naturally, “no Commonwealth Minis-
ter was at Canberra” when news of King
George’s death arrived. As the old
Governor-General had gone to Mel-
bourne (with no Commonwealth Minister
to see him off) and the new Governor-
General had not been sworn in, there
was no representative of the Government
there at all. Canberra must be the first
capital of a British country where this
has happened at a demise of the Crown.
When a few of the scattered Ministers
had been collected at Melbourne and
they had collected their scattered
thoughts, “it was stated officially that it
was an obligation on every loyal citizen
to wear mourning for the King, such as
black tie and armband.” An instruction
which might have been interpreted to
mean that unless broken soldiers and
relief-workers, threatened with the loss
of two days’ pay, stinted themselves to
buy black ties and armbands they would
proclaim themselves disloyal. How
different the attitude of the new King,
who, with the unemployed always in his
thoughts, had the Tuesday holiday can-
celled !
It is his Majesty’s wish that the people
should mark the solemnity of the occasion
in such manner as each may think appro-
priate, according to the circumstances in
which he finds himself.
His Majesty is much more democratic
than his Australian Ministry.
The League of Hallucinations couldn’t
help being nasty even when the world
was bereft of a wise old King. His
Majesty was not 40 hours dead when
Mr. Eden blurted out at Geneva that if
Italy attacked Britain, the Greek, the
Slav and the Turk would rush in and
save us all. The Italian Court had
then gone into mourning, a Government
order had been issued that all flags in
Italy should be flown at half-mast till
after the funeral and the Crown Prince
had been deputed to attend that cere-
mony. Immaterial, of course, to Mr.
Eden ; but hadn’t Mr. Eden better dig up
another lot of saviors to watch the Turk
(presumably Unspeakable no longer), the
Slav and the Greek?
Laval has had to resign. His internal
difficulties increased when British policy
forced him to choose between Britain
and Italy, and in the end he was aban-
doned by the sanctionist Herriot. Repre-
sentative British periodicals are saying
things like this:—•
The sanctions campaign has seriously
affected French business confidence. The.
moment French Ministers supported Mr.
Eden’s anti-Italian crusade, orders stopped.
Nearly all Europe now believes that, in
his stiffnecked devotion to a fixed and
unrealisable idea, Mr. Eden is playing
the Communists' dirty game.
Opening the election campaign at
Boulder, Westralian Premier Collier
proudly mentioned that “a surplus” was
“probable.” Considering that his Govern-
ment is getting a special Commonwealth
grant of £BOO,OOO, together with £162,000
for distressed farmers and stacks of other
bounties and allowances, it ought to be
probable. The familiar deficit is certain
in N. S. Wales, which “provides two-
fifths of the Commonwealth money
showered on Collier’s Government.
Bruce became President of the
League Council last week. His first
visitor was an Irish gentleman who had
been acting as League Commissioner in
Danzig, and who came armed with a
report which some Polish newspapers
described as “alarming” and others as
having all the characteristics of a “thun-
derbolt.” Mr. Eden described the situa-
tion as “exceptionally grave,” but “a vital
settlement” is alleged to have been
patched up. Nazis in the Corridor are,
of course, giving all the trouble. Some-
how the League press has omitted
to propose “sanctions.” Germany can’t
be “amenable.”
The League Committee of Thirteen
decided last week that “sanctions are a
matter for the Committee of Eighteen,”
and left it to S. M. Bruce, as President
of the Council, to call that committee
together “whenever he considered it
proper to do so.” He considered it
proper right away, and the Committee
of Eighteen has “referred the question
of oil to a committee of experts for
report.” Thank God that’s settled!
Mr. Bulcock, whose fame as Queens-
land’s Minister for Agriculture rests
mainly upon his parsimony in travelling
“Mr. Bruce is now chairman of the League Council, and has already had to deal with
a Danzig situation which Mr. Anthony Eden described as ‘exceptionally grave.’”
“The world’s copper — that’s what you are, Stanley. And you’ll have to use the
baton when I give you the word.”
expenses, takes a gloomy view of the
prospects of successful settlement of
immigrants. He says there is no good land
left. Were Mr. Bulcock to blow more
public money in getting about, he would
learn that' numbers of properties capable
of yielding a good living to a hardwork-
ing family are obtainable on a pay-as-
you-earn basis throughout the best parts
of Queensland.
Queensland Labor politicians who emit
howls for Commonwealth action against
aliens exploiting our northern waters for
valuable products which are there for us
to take should have a look at the Con-
stitution. Clause 51 (X) limits Common-
wealth jurisdiction over fisheries to Aus-
tralian waters beyond territorial limits.
Within these limits —that is, within three
miles of any island or coast controlled
by any State—it is the State’s job to
make the necessary laws and to enforce
them.
Freight charges on Queensland’s Gov-
ernment railways are getting wide adver-
tisement in the battle now being waged
between the Transport Strangulation
Board and the public. To Kingaroy, 287
miles from Brisbane, despite a “tax” of
£7OO a year, suppressed road services car-
ried a drum of petrol for 16s. and de-
livered it direct; the railways demanded
£l, with cost of delivery from station
added. Other instances were motor tyres,
Is. 6d. to 2s. by road, 4s. lOd. to 12s.
by rail; batteries, 2s. 6d. by road, Bs. 3d.
by rail; oils, 7d. and lOd. per gallon. A
movement for the organisation of a block
vote to be exercised against any Parlia-
mentary or local council candidate not
in favor of restoration of road services
on a reasonable basis is receiving strong
support. It would really be wise for the
Forgan Smiths to sit up and take notice.
Barring a miracle, U.S.A. finances will
be plain chaos when Roosevelt goes up
for re-election. First, the Supreme
Court pronounced the processing taxes
illegal and ordered the return of
$200,000,000 in tax-money impounded
(incidentally, the invalidated imposts
yielded $521,000,000 in 1934-35, which
was $178,000,000 more than customs
revenue). Now Congress has directed the
President to issue $2,500,000,000 in cash-
able bonds in exchange for the compen-
sation certificates granted to ex-soldiers
and maturing in 1945.
Though North West'ralia’s electoral
population is only 3000 or 4000, about
one-sixtieth of the whole, it has four of
the 50 Assembly seats. In the last Parlia-
ment Labor held three, Gascoyne, Roe-
bourne and Kimberley, and it now expects
to retain the three and win the fourth, Pil-
bara. Possibly it will. For many years
after the conscription business, it had
no northern representation, but times
and conditions have changed.
It is just as well that the 3 p.c. con-
version loan was underwritten, for the
British investor subscribed only a frac-
tion of it. One theory is that he is get-
ting fed up with over-taxation of British
cos. operating in Australia. That may
also be the explanation of the return of
£250,000 of a pastoral co.’s capital, for
which Colebatch, the Westralian Agent-
General, scolded the directors. It is a
fact that the only new British capital
coming to Australia for investment is
going into Westralian goldmining. In
that field alone Australian taxation is
light compared with that imposed by
South Africa, which takes half the gold
premium.
Financial returns for six months hav-
ing left it nearly £1,500,000 in credit,
the Lyons Government is abolishing the
flour tax as from February 24. The
tax was never popular, and no one
will regret it, but at least it served to
give an appearance of impermanence to
the bounties and allowances distributed
among wheatgrowers. Now there will be
no glossing over the fact that they all
come out of general tax-revenue. And
heaps of politicians and members of
political organisations are trying to estab-
lish the principle that when a man has
a bad crop, whatever the cause, the coun-
try should compensate him and take over
portion of his debts.
The British-owned Midland Railway
Co., which operates a 277-mile line in
W.A., has once more shown a fair
profit, after meeting interest and taxes
and providing for depreciation—a feat
which no Government railway system
has performed for years and years and
years. Interest took £29,000, just on
£5OOO was required for taxes and taxa-
tion reserve, and £30,000 was transferred
to depreciation account, leaving £27,200
to be carried forward. No mean result,
considering that the co. serves chiefly
depressed farming districts and gets no
profitable goldfields traffic. The Govern-
ment deprived it of that by building an
almost parallel line.
The unkindest cut of all delivered at
Queensland’s Transport Strangulation
Board has been an allegation by the
A.R.U. secretary that excessive conces-
sions have been given to the board’s con-
tractor at Southport under its “co-ordi-
nation system.” The contractor, it
appears, is charged 20s. per ton for ordi-
nary merchandise from Brisbane to
Southport; ordinary consignors are
charged 555. In this the union sees the
beginning of a monopoly which will drive
railwaymen out of their jobs.
In Victoria last year 7 per cent, of
Government - school - children enrolled
were granted exemption from attendance.
Miss Gillespie, a vice-president of the
Teachers’ Union, made this statement at
the annual conference in Melbourne,
adding that most of the exempted
children had found their way into indus-
tries where factory‘laws did not apply.
Such a position is one of the most bitter
accompaniments of a depression. The
children should certainly not be per-
mitted to go forth partly educated ; on
the other hand, their meagre wages mean
something to the family in meagre times.
Customs Minister White has become
the proud possessor of a life pass on all
Australian railways. Why three years’
service should entitle a Minister to such
a reward passes comprehension ; but the
oracle was worked at a Premiers’ confer-
ence on the principle of “You scratch my
back and I’ll scratch yours.” An ex-
politician with a life pass is at a great
advantage over others when he enters or
returns to business. To a youngish
person with a normal expectation of life
it might conceivably be as good as £3OOO.
From Canberra:
When Anstey’s retirement was foreshadowed,
it was suggested that Curtin might try to get
the party nomination for Bourke, having been
a protege of Anstey’s and a familiar speaker
in {he electorate in his Melbourne days. He
elected to go for Fremantle, and won it. But
with Maurice Blackburn out of favor with
the Trades Hall because of his support for
“sanctions” and his association with the Vic-
torian Council against War, talk of a Curtin
candidature has been revived, and Blackburn’s
supporters are mobilising to prevent it. There
is no Federal Labor precedent for an actual
member transferring from one State to an-
other, and Theodore’s experience after chang-
ing his State (of course, he had not been an
actual member) is apt to daunt any gentleman
contemplating it. So Curtin may decide to
“chance it” again in Fremantle.


» V'
OMLV GAVE HALF A P'NT T-US MORMtMG, .
U ' '
Cant understand it, STRAWBERRY'S
GiOtNG* DRV M-RE&OV > V
ft
What ABOUT TPVIMG, MUSIC
LAKE THEV DO IN ZLMER\CA ? "
u f
No good ( Dave 111 have to oet
MV FIDDLE > v
V ) «
Not a drop-
•it w
Praps she likes opakd opera ,
*• > *
“fey her with Madame Butterfly
a
Ihats ddue the trvck. ,
More Buckets"
" n V%
chawqe the eEcopo / Dave .
1/ I f \\
ihats fukjw.v, Shes Stopped,
f( I \v
Its all Curd Leo ,
V , *
Ho NHOfMOER- .Thats BiMG, CROSS f y j
BUT IT MUST BE MUSIC!
“An American claims that he has increased his cows’ output of milk by means of music."


Ti
SYDNEY
N.S.W. A
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney .
Pli
mill
BWIfBf
Bin till ill
ill id
wm
HI [[[
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT-MARTIN-PLACE EXTENSION
First Three Floors now open! *
THE NEW WINTER GARDEN—Glamorous
—enchanting—Sydney’s smartest rendezvous.
The BEVERY—Sydney’s newest and
smartest restaurant. Hours: Noon till nine.
Minimum tariff, 1/8. Afternoon Tea from 1/-.
Leading brands of liquors served on request.
THE MARTIN-PLACE BAR—only bar in
tbe area—with direct street-level access from
Martin-place
THE NEW BALLROOM—Beautiful in
Design—stately in proportions. Fine natural
lighting by day. Dance floor above criticism.
THE NEW BUILDING IS AIR CONDITION ED THROUGHOUT.
fa Sifdm/ \
Room Only” Rates: Single Room - 10/6 per day. Double Room - 20/- per day.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Australia is becoming a Mecca for the
peerage. Within a little over a year
there have been 16 wearers of the ermine
here, including one duke —Northumber-
land. The latest to arrive is Lord Sel-
borne, who is probably the oldest of
the visitors so far, and who, at 76, forms
a link with the “grand old days,” since
he was private secretary to H. C. Erskine
Childers when the latter was Chancellor
of the Exchequer from 1882-85 in Glad-
stone’s third-last Ministry. He was after-
wards Under-Secretary for the Colonies,
First Lord of the Admiralty and High
Commissioner in S’Africa. His father
was Roundell Palmer, Attorney-General
and Lord Chancellor, who was both a
Q.C. and a Fellow of the Royal Society
—an unusual combination—and his son
has held minor Ministerial offices.
In the politicians’ exhibition, H. G. R.
Mason, Maoriland’s new Attorney-
General, will surely take the blue ribbon
in the aged class for undemocratic
Christian names —two of his are “Great-
head Rex.” He was born in Wellington,
son of a S. African. Dux of Wellington
H. G. R. Mason, the Maoriland
Attorney-General.
college, he took his M.A. and LL.B. at
Victoria College and eventually settled
down in the firm of Mason and Mason
with his brother, who is president of the
Auckland Aero Club. Politics allured
him after several years’ training as
Mayor of Pukekohe, and he was elected
to the Reps, in 1926.
The new chairman of the Associated
Banks in S.A. (succeeding D. E.
McEwan, of the Australasia) is R. H. J.
Camm, of the Commercial. He learned
the business in Melbourne, and then was
manager at various Westralian branches,
Prahran (Vic.), Invercargill and Christ-
church (he was about 16 years in M.L.),
and finally Adelaide.
Willi Fels, of Maoriland, chairman
of directors of Hallenstein Bros,
and the D.1.C., collected a C.M.G. at
New Year. Willi is a native of Ger-
many, but Dunedin is his spiritual home,
where his benefactions to education and
the arts have made his name respected.
A deep student of Maori ethnography,
he has amassed a large collection of
native material and weapons, and his
help has enabled an addition to the Dun-
edin Museum known as the “Willi Fels
Wing,” which was built in 1930.
Aby Altson, who won a Victorian
travelling scholarship long ago, has
turned up in India, where he is said to
have made a hit with the rajahs, turning
out frescoes for their palaces. Altson is
engaged on decorating the palace of the
Gaekwar of Baroda, and apparently has
enough work ahead of him to last a
couple of lifetimes. He has been given
a free hand, which is more than he
would have if he were painting pictures
on the walls of some Aryan Babbitts.
Some February birthdays:
Merchant-knight William Brunton (Melb.),
69, on Ist; W. F. Dunn (ex-Min. for Agric.,
N.S.W.), 59, and Archbishop Mowll (Sydney),
46, on 2nd; Geo. Taylor (editor “Sun-News
Pictorial,” Melb.), 44, and W. A. Deacon (ex-
Min. for Lands, Q’land), 64, on 4th; Rev.
L. E. Bennett, M.A., B.D. (Master of Wesley
Coll., Sydney), 58, and David Maughan, K.C.
(Syd.), 63, on sth; N.S.W. Min. for Mines
R. S. Vincent, 44, and Monsignor Nevin (presi-
dent St. Patrick’s Coll., Manly), 50, on 6th;
Richard Linton (Vic. Agent-Gen.), 58, on 7th;
Dr. A. B. Walkom (gen. sec. Australasian
Science Assoc.), 47, and Prof. Jack Murray
(Q’land), 47, on Bth; Q’land ex-Premier A. E.
Moore, 60, on 9th; knight Robt. Garran, 69,
on 10th; N.S.W. Min. for Educ. D. H. Drum-
mond, 46, musician Fritz Hart (Melb.), 62, Ida
Leeson (Mitchell Librarian, Syd.), and Q’land
Senator Gordon Brown, 51, on 11th; Albert
Gould (Syd., formerly Pres, of Senate), 89,
Prof. H. S. Carslaw (Syd.), 66, Prof. A. J. Ewart,
F.R.S. (Melb.), 64, Major-Gen. Charles Rosen-
thal (Syd.), 61, and pastoralist-knight Edward
Wittenoom (W.A.), 82, on 12th; Archbishop
Kelly,' 86, Melb. scientist Frederick Chapman,
72, W.A. Crown Solicitor J. L. Walker, 51,.
S. Govt. Astronomer Geo. Dodwell, 57, on
13th; knight Edward Lucas (ex-S.A. Agent-
Gen.), 79, J. L. Price, M.H.R. (Boothby, S.A.),
54, Q’land Senator J. V. Macdonald, 56, on
14th; George Black, ex-M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 82,
on 15th; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Jess (Melb.), 52,
Justice McTiernan (Federal High Court), 44,
N.S.W. Collector of Customs G. F. A. Mit-
chell, 57, and N.S.W. Transport Commissioner
S. A. Maddocks, 55, on 16th; “Banjo” Pater-
son, 72, H. T. Armitage (dep.-gov. C’wealth
Bank), 55, S.A. Govt. Geologist L. K. Ward,
57, and Prof. T. Hytten (Syd.), 46, on 17th;
Prof. O. U. Vonwiller (Syd.), 54, on 18th;
Justice Macrossan (Q’land), 55, and novelist
Dorothy Langsford, on 20th; Judge Drake-
Brockman, 52, Henry Cohen, K.C., M.L.C.
(Vic.), 64, and Anthony Hordern (Syd.), 47,
on 21st; Justice Starke (High Court), 65, Dr.
lan Clunies-Ross (Director McMaster Labora-
tory, 37, Dr M. J. Holmes (C’wealth Health
Dept.), 52, on 22nd; Norman Lindsay, 57, and
novelist J. M. Walsh, 39, on 23rd; W. A. Selle
(Registrar of Syd. Uni.), 53, Prof. D. B. Cop-
land, 42, Prof. R. M. Allan (Melb.), 50, on
24th; artist Percy Leason, 47, ex-Customs
Comptroller Ernest Hall, 65, and Justice J. A.
Browne (N.S.W. Chief Industrial Commis-
sioner), 60, on 25th; knight Mungo Mac-
Callum (Syd.), 82, former S.A. Premier Henry
Barwell, 59, Prof. J. M. Holmes (Syd.), 40,
and C. R. Chapman (formerly N.S.W. Trea-
sury), 61, on 26th; medico-knight James
Barrett (Melb.), 74, and airman L. J. Brain
34, on 27th; S.A. Min. for Educ. S. \V.
Jeffries, 50, on 28th.
John Hubert Fairfax is the most ver-
satile of the “S. M. Herald” proprietary.
Son of “our Sir James” he inherited his
father’s good looks and even tempera-
ment. He was educated at Geelong and
Jesus College, Cambridge, and returned
to take over Dalmore station (Central
Queensland), marrying a daughter of
Vincent Dowling. In 1908, he moved to
the Darling Downs and built up the best-
known Ayrshire stud of the North,
Marinya. He is one of the
world’s best judges of the Ayr-
shire, and has been a favorite
adjudicator at Melbourne,
which, in its time, has boasted
the biggest and most compli-
cated classes in the Empire.
The deaths of his brothers
James and Geoffrey brought
him to Sydney to help
steer the “Herald” along the
straight and narrow path, but
he is more at home in the
country. He sits on the
boards of the ’Wales and the Royal
Insurance.
Janies Hill, the first baronet of the
name, dead in Bradford at 86, had been
well known as a trader in Australian wool
for 45 years, but he had many other in-
terests, and controlled about half the
newspapers around Bradford. He had
two years in the Commons after he be-
came a “Sir” in 1916, but the rugged
Yorkshire mind which lay behind his
round, wide-awake face found Parlia-
ment far from congenial.
“El V.” on the only Parsi extremist:
Britain lost its most curious Communist by
the death of Shapurji Saklatvala. His father
was a rich Bombay merchant, and he married
a daughter of the still richer Tatas. Trained
to the law —he was a Lincoln’s Inn man—
Saklatvala was also a geologist, and three
years’ exploration of the backwaters of India
found the material on which the Tata Iron and
Steel Works, capitalised at £4,000,000, was
founded. His soft heart led him into welfare
work in Bombay, particularly in plague hospi-
tals and other danger-spots of the sort. His
experiences left their mark on him, and he
eventually resigned his job in Tata and Co. to
devote himself to further the interests of the
Third International in Britain and to securing
its alliance with the I.L.P. Battersea North,
a huddled railway area south of the Thames,
returned him to the Commons in 1922, and
twice afterwards, but he lost his seat in 1929.
The highlight of his notoriety came when he
was refused admission to the United States in
1925.
James Mills, dead in London, at 88,
was Maoriland-born, the son of a
customs officer. In his early days he
was associated with the Harbor Steam
Co. In 1875 he became managing
director of the Union Co., and in 1916
its chairman of directors. He had been
a member of the Otago Provincial Coun-
cil, and sat for Port Chalmers in the
M.L. House of Reps. He was one of
the Maoriland reps, at the 1907 Imperial
Navigation Conference, was knighted
in the same year, and became a
K.C.M.G. two years later.
Daniel Giles Sullivan, Maoriland’s
new Minister of Railways, is the first
Inky Wayfarer since W. P. Reeves to
hold a major portfolio in the Fernland
Cabinet. Dan, like many others of the
craft, drifted into journalism. He was
first a french-polisher by trade, and
spent his early years as a journeyman
wandering round the world. Returning
to Christchurch, his birthplace, he be-
came president of the United Furniture
Trades Federation and got elected to
the City Council —he has frequently
been Mayor. He joined the staff
of Christchurch “Sun” as a reporter
when that journal started in 1914,
and has been described as “jour-
nalist” ever since, though mayoral and
Parliamentary duties have fully occupied
his time. He entered Parliament 16 years
J. H. FAIRFAX, of “S. M. Herald .”
ago as member for Avon, a Christchurch
suburb, and has been returned at each
election with thumping majorities.
Though as much a Radical as any of his
colleagues, Dan presents his arguments
with such sweet reasonableness that the
bluest Tories find it hard to pick a
quarrel with him. He has given good
municipal service to his native town;
now he faces problems of railway finance
and administration that have proved too
knotty for predecessors.
Few realise that A. B. Paterson, whose
portrait— not by Frith, but by Long-
staff—won the Archibald Prize, is in
his seventies. Apart from being Aus-
“THE BANJO,” according to Frith.
tralia’s leading balladist, Paterson is its
most experienced resident war correspon-
dent. The best of his verse was pub-
lished in The Bulletin— he began to
write for it in the middle ’eighties
while practising law. He was through
the Spanish-American, S. African and
Boxer campaigns and the World War —
in the last, as well as writing, he
served in the Light Horse Remount
Division, rising to major. He is the one
living Australian whose rhymes have a
world circulation.
“M.G.”: Longstaff’s continued success
in carrying off the Archibald Prize re-
calls the fact that Archibald was prob-
ably the first, outside the ranks of
artists themselves, to recognise Long-
staff’s ability. When “Breaking the
News” came on the market, Archibald
bought it at a figure which in those days
was unheard-of for the work of one who
had just emerged from studentship. This
year’s portrait of “Banjo” Paterson pre-
cisely fits the wishes of Archibald as well
as the terms of the bequest.
“Zedo” on a familiar title:
The second Lord Trent, who is in the
Antipodes, has a distinction which is unique
among peers. Barons have been created for
leading forlorn hopes, dukes have been ele-
vated for holding marches, earldoms have
grown on to Lord Chancellorships; Lord Trent
is the only peer whose title was conferred
on the builder of a chain of chemists’ shops—
Boots, the biggest apothecary concern in the
world, as chairman of which he succeeded his
father. He takes his title from a river which
has been more cursed by Australians than any
other. The Test-match ground at Nottingham
lies on its banks, and every time an Australian
team feels really good it gets scheduled to
play on Trent ground, and the Trent rises and
everybody walks about on it gloomily on wet
feet. Whereafter Boots cough-mixture sales
inside the Test team rise 700 per cent.
“H.H.” remembers:
Reference to knight W. R. Carpenter (B.
15/1 /’36) took me back to Forest Lodge school
in 1891, then run by “Billy” Bardsley, father
of Warren. Soon after I left Forest Lodge,
the boy Carpenter went on a cruise with his
father, Captain Carpenter, a pearler. A Dutch
vessel found Carpenter’s schooner allegedly m
Dutch waters and seized it. Captain Carpenter
made representations to George Dibbs, then
NSW Premier, who, in turn, made strong
demands on the Dutch Government, which told
him that nothing could be done. Thereupon
Dibbs got into touch with the Secretary of
State for the Colonies, and when he had
spoken his part Holland sang a different tune,
and Carpenter was compensated for both false
imprisonment and loss of trade.


QUALITY GOODS
060.—Specially made for the
motorist. Two blades, screwdriver,
bottle opener, tin opener, wrench,
testers, corkscrew, gimlet and
leather punch.
Price, 22/6 each.
1 1 O.—A Real Boys’ Knife. Two
blades, screwdriver, corkscrew,
rhymer, hoof pick and nutcracker,
picker and tweezer.
Price, 9/6 each.
mu
292.—Four-bladed Knife with
picker and tweezer.
Price, 13/6 each.
6006.—S tock Knife for the
countryman.
Price, 8/6 each.
C3.—Two Best Hollow-ground
Razors, xylonite handles, in flat
leatherette case.
Price, 31/6.
ě
0
i
Pinking Shears for home use; save
time and material.
Price, 42/- pair.
Smaller size, similar to scissor.
Price, 36/- pair.
Young man’s Shaving Outfit, in
leather case. Razor strop, razor,
brush, soap and comb.
Price, 32/6 each.
No. s.—For the Housewife. Three
best quality Scissors in leather case,
velvet lined.
Price, 25/- case.
No. I—Larger case, with seven
scissors and one pocket knife.
Price, 62/6 case.
JO3. —Velvet Shoe with embroidery
scissor for girls.
Price, 8/6 each.
1
OiltiH
m uj
S7o.—Best Quality Horsehide Leather Razor Strop, to go with above razor. Length, 25ltt»
overall; width, 2in.
Price, 15/- each.
All the above articles POST FREE for Cash with Order,
Catalogue of Cutlery Post Free on request.
W. Jno. BAKER, ltd.
3 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Tliis Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors’.
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold. Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates. Silver. Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS Gold Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers owm specifications
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Punters Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications. ,
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company
offices, viz.: — ~,
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KBIMELA, • Street.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. „ .‘'‘ ’T'nr T'frt K'mbb
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or R Kemb a. Kembla
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to , ®!* h fLount at Current London pri***
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on . th refinery Port Kembla.
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the rennery, Jrori,
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance
Industrial
Income. Claims. Exes. Losses. Funds.*
& £ £ £ .£?
1924.. 127,788 10,083 73,728 12,886 23,“492
1925.. 143,435 9,315 100,958 12,347 44,307
Freehold written up, £34,609 .. .. 78,916
1926.. 155,608 13,922 94,005 6,765 119,832
1927.. 167,993 20,139 101,284 8,144 158,258
1928.. 196,514 22,374 114,111 137 218,150
Surplus.
1929.. 200,012 42,909 98,385 512 277,380
1930.. 195,250 33,922 77,966 6,714 365,456
1931.. 167,941 43,469 59,619 2,766 433,075
Written oft, £5894 427,181
1932.. 143,238 50,791 63,839 2,367 458,156
Written off, £4834 453,322
1933.. 147,281 47,371 66,436 1,338 488,134
Written off, £6371 481,763
1934.. 157,314 56,331 62,018 900 521,628
Written off, £7322 . . . . . . 514,306
1935.. 151,952 46,265 60,104 1,230 561,119
Written off, £4974 556,145
*Net funds apart from capital.
Exactly where the policy-holders and
shareholders of this 15-year-old concern
stand won’t be known until the actuary
completes his third quinquennial over-
haul of the business, now in progress.
At the preceding valuation in 1930 the
whole of the £ 108,000-odd of paid-up
share capital and £17,816 besides were
unrepresented by tangibles in the books.
The trouble lay in the Industrial branch,
where liabilities under policies exceeded
the Life fund by over £30,000. In the
Ordinary department there was a sur-
plus of £5168, including £3962 that had
been hastily distributed in bonuses.
Over the five years to the close of
last accounts, £220,746 was added to the
Assurance funds, raising them to £688,127,
while the growth in net tangibles was
£194,482—£29,395 (£4974 of it in respect
of the last term) was written off and/or
reserved for depreciation. Here is the
position so far as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1931. 1934. 1935.
Government securities-. . £102,980 £149,465 £150,247
Mortgages . . . . 43,455 122,234 151,357
Loans on policies . . 78,390 89,864 94,402
Book debts, cash, etc. 144,297 97,685 100,384
Equipment . . . . 18,795 16,222 16,680
Freehold .. . . 156,907 162,231 167,109
Total tangible assets .. £544,824 £637,701 £680,179
Liabilities* . . . . 3,314 7,163 7,283
Net tangibles .. .. £541,510 £630,538 £672,896
Assurance funds . . 559,161 646,286 688,127
Paid capital .. .. 108,475 108,475 108,475
*Apart from premiums paid in advance.
Last year the growth in net tangibles
was £42,358 and in the Assurance funds
£41,841. Assuming that the Assurance
funds exactly covered liabilities under
policies and that the assets were worth
their book value, the whole of the share
capital and £15,231 besides were still un-
represented by tangibles when the books
last closed.
During the last term “efforts were con-
centrated on a reduction of costs and
consolidation of the co.’s business rather
than on extension of new business acti-
vities,” the chairman says. The contrac-
tion in the amount of new Ordinary busi-
ness written was £124,279. The average
amount per policy was £35 lighter at
£266 ; there was little change in the aver-
age premium per cent. (£2 16s. lid.):
Ordinary:—- 1930. 1934. 1935.
Policies issued . . 2,054 2,163 1,990
Assuring .. .. £802,793 £652,061 £527,782
First premiums . . 22,087 15,054 13,336
Renewal premiums. . 156,429 118,564 114,705
Interest and rent . . 16,733 23,696 23,911
Surrenders (£14,878) were £6329 lighter.
Excluding taxes (£2685) and a contri-
bution (£421) to the staff fund, exes, took
44.5 p.c. of the net premium income as
against 44.2 p.c. and 48.6 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. New business cost
229 p.c. as against 219 p.c. in 1934 ; that
is on the generally-accepted basis that
first premiums are 10 times more expen-
sive than renewals.
In the Industrial section 4715 policies
(down 827) were written, assuring
£197,740 (down £40,901). Here exes.
(£16,376, down £4136) took 64.6 p.c. of
the net premiums (£25,338, up £366) as
against 82.1 p.c. in 1934. Interest (£1650)
was £234 lighter, and claims (£9381) were
£3937 heavier, leaving a surplus of £1231
(up £331).
Leaving a tax refund of £3106 out of
the reckoning, interest, etc., was approxi-
mately 3 p.c. (3.6 p.c. in 1934) on the
average funds in the two departments
combined. In 1930 the co. assumed that
its funds would earn 4 p.c.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends N To lie- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
1928.. 58,970 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =51,243 7,727 38,460
Added Service Shares reserve, £35,000.. 73,460
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,915
1930.. 64,224 6 p.c.* Nil 6,610 57,614 140,029
Loss.
1931.. 26,260 t Nil Nil 114,269
Profit.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26,577 6* „ 4 p.c. =31,579 112,567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 24 „„ 22,217 458 113,025
Lows.
1935. . 29,349 6* „ Nil 6,659 77,017
*lncludes 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
1410. tAfter making special provision ( £59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts, tlncludes arrears.
The co. operates three plants in S. Aus.
and one at Geelong (Vic.), and has a
£90,000 share interest in Fresco Fer-
tilizers (W.A.), Ltd. Of recent years, an
expanding demand for super. \ for top-
dressing pastures has been accom-
panied by a contraction of demand from
the wheat areas, owing to the low price
of the grain. Of 524 farmers examined
by the Wheat Commission, only 191
were producing at less than 3s. Id. per
bushel. Moreover, the fall in price enor-
mously increased the growers’ burden
of debt in terms of the grain. Neverthe-
less, bankruptcies of wheat-farmers have
not been especially numerous, thanks to
Moratorium and Farm Relief legislation
and to the special assistance and for-
bearance of creditors generally. Still,
farmers’ debts bulk largely among the
assets of these fertiliser cos., and the
repercussions of the situation are now
being felt, notwithstanding the rise in
the price of wheat.
Partly because of all this, Cresco,
which made a special provision of
£59,000 for bad debts and depreciation
in 1931, and recorded net profits aggre-
gating £65,868 for the next three years,
showed a loss of £29,349 for the last
term. Sales increased, despite competi-
tion. But prices had to be cut, and
gross earnings (£64,268) were £19,016
lighter, while exes. (£68,617) were £BOO9
heavier. In addition, £15,000 was struck
off for bad and doubtful debts, and
£lO,OOO for depreciation, for which no
provision was made in the previous
term; liberal allowances were said to
have been made in former years. The
prefs. received their divs. (£6659), mak-
ing the year’s total reduction in reserves
(now £77,017) £36,008.
The ords. were passed by for the
fourth time in the last half-dozen years,
and it is difficult to say exactly what the
future holds for them. The recent rise
in the price of wool and wheat, and the
Federal subsidy of 15s. a ton on super.,
mean much so far as the debts question
is concerned. Also, the Federal and
State Governments are busy talking
about “stabilising” the industry on the
basis of a home-consumption price of
4s. 6d. a bushel. The board anticipates a
further increase in sales and reduction in
exes. Still, competition, which was re-
sponsible for £4349 of last year’s loss of
£29,349, doesn’t look like losing any of
its keenness.
The effect of the year’s loss and pay-
ment of divs. is further reflected in the
finances:
1924. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £290,031 £734,574 £734,624 £734,679
Liabilities .. 57,418 498,433 135,219 132,709
Freeholds and' ]
iplant . . i 307,474 608,211 -{ 439,338 453,735
Stocks.. .. j [ 170,760 136,818
Shares in other
cos. .. 90,000 90,001 90,000
Advances to AV.A.
co 78,620
Debtors . . 69,840 602,375 234,073 209,468
Cash, etc. . . 4,257 939 70,913 61,043
Including stocks (down £33,942) but not
shares in other cos., the year’s contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£274,620) was £65,907. Debtors’ bal-
ances were down £24,605. On fixed assets
£14,397 more was spent than was written
off.
The Westralian co. netted £13,459 as
against £15,748 in 1934, and, after hand-
ing its prefs. their 6 p.c., paid 4 p.c.
on the ords., the same as for the two
preceding terms.
At 20s. 4d. the Adelaide co.’s 6 p.c.
prefs. return 5.9 p.c.; the participating
rights (they are entitled to advance with
the ords. up to 9 p.c.) don’t appear to
be worth much at the moment. For the
ords., which sold at 7s. 9d. early in
January, sellers now ask 10s. The net
tangible cover (book value) is £7 ss. 3d.
prefs. and 225. 6d. ords.
Denton Hats, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug'., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927*'. 6293 7J p.c. = 6481 47,107
1928.. 4739 5 „ „ 4321 418 47,525
1929.. 2966 5 „ ~ 4321 46,170
1930.. 2913 3J „ „ 3241 _ 45 842
1931.. 2416 2i „ „ 2160 256 46!098
1932.. 2079 2* „ ~ 2160 46,017
Written off, £3446 .. .. .. 42 571
1933.. 2519 2.9 p.c. = 2520 42*570
1934.. 2678 3 „ „ 2520 158 42,728
1935.. 4244 5 ~ „ 4321 —. 42,651
*l4 months.
It was to meet competition from over-
seas that this co. and nine others in the
trade formed one big operating concern,
United Felt Hats Pty., with a paid capital
of £773,451, of which £447,957 was
goodwill, in 1925. It is not surprising,
therefore, that the operating co., which
was also burdened with some obsolete
plant and superfluous premises, leased
from the amalgamated cos., was unable to
earn enough to pay a div. on its £773,451
of capital, notwithstanding the assist-
ance of the tariff and more recently of
exchange.
However, in June, 1934, the United
co., over whose figures the curtain is
kept drawn, wrote off £580,088 (15s. per
share) of its capital, reducing the figure
to £193,363 in ss. shares; the last
of the onerous leases ran out in June,
1935 —operations are now concentrated
in the Denton mill, which has been
leased until 1942. Also, turnover, which
had remained fairly steady for about
three years, increased in both quantity
and value last year, and the co. paid its
first div. (5 p.c. on capital as it now
stands) since its inception. Prospects are
said to be encouraging.
This div. enabled the Denton co. to
show £1566 more profit, or £4244 in all,
equal to 4.9 p.c. on it's capital. A couple
of points was added to the div., making
it 5 p.c., which called for £77 more than
the year’s net earnings.
Denton holds 159,146 of the United
Co.’s shares, which figure in the books
at £66,571, or £34,742 more than their
present face value. The difference, how-
ever, is more than covered by reserves.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1928. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £86,420 £86,420
Sundry creditors .. . . 499 703 ' 846
Freehold 29,007 34,664 34,664
Shares other cos 66,397 66,543 66,571
Mortgages, etc. .. .. 1,040 7,571 5,000
Consols, etc 40,232 22,513 26,921
When the books closed, Consols and
mortgages, etc., exceeded the small out-
side debt by £31,075 (up £1694), equal
to 7s. 2d. per share. Since the United
Co.’s finances are reported to be com-
fortable, a return of part of the Denton
co.’s capital is a possibility.
At 18s. 6d., the fully-paid pound shares
return 5.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover (book value) is
245. 2d.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925.. 29,420 10 p.c. = 15,000 14,420 124,769
1926.. 29,744 10 ~ „ 15,000 14.744 139,513
1927.. 32,617- 10 „ ~15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ ~15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ ~15,000 5,886 169,451
1930.. 9,528 7£„ ~11,250 —• 167,729
1931.. 8 560 5 „ „ 7,500 1,060 168,789
1932.. 17,051 6 „ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13,840 7 „ ~10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8 „ ~12,000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
The drop of £14,518 in last year’s profit
was more apparent than real; there was
an unexplained addition of £16,037 to
reserves in 1934, whereas last year’s un-
explained addition was not visible. But
trade continued to improve, declared net
earnings were £1499 better at £13,533, the
div. was lifted a point, making it' 9 p.c.,
which took all but £33 of the declared
profit, and the improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£170,409) was
£25,040 as against £21,747 in the pre-
vious term. It all suggests that the board
has made a conservative estimate of the
year’s net earnings, and that the 9 p.c.
div. is not so precarious as it might
look from a glance at the last line of the
table.
During the year £107,677, which the
board says had been accumulated to
cover depreciation, was taken from the
pile of general reserves (heaped £46,251
higher than paid capital at the end of
1934) and deducted from the book value
of the assets concerned. One effect was
to lower the visible lay-by to £88,607
(11s. lOd. per share) at the end of Dec.
last; another was to reduce the book
value of the co.’s shipping property to
a modest £67,502, or not much more
than one-third of the 1934 figure, which,
judged on the basis of earning capacity,
appeared to be a moderate statement of
value. Here is the position so far as
balance-sheet figures show it:
1933. 1934. 1935
Capital £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . . . 9,895 11,921 16,659
Ship property . . . . 187,242 184,812 67,502
Freeholds and leaseholds 15,279 15,201 2,150
Plant, stores, etc. . . 9,287 7,019 5,296
Book debts . . . . 13,509 15,661 19,328
Consols, cash, etc. . . 120,008 141,629 167,740
The year’s net reduction in the book
value of shipping property was £117,310,
in freehold and leasehold £13,051, and
in plant, etc., £2323 ; making the total
reduction in the book value of fixed
assets £132,684, of which £107,677 was
on account of past accumulations. It is
plain, therefore, that last year’s provi-
sion for depreciation, etc., was not
skimped. The money was invested
mainly in “consolidated stock and bonds
and bank fixed deposits” (£163,450 =
21s. 9d. per share), up £27,400. Debtors’
balances alone more than covered out-
side liabilities.
The co. has been carrying passengers
and cargo between Sydney and New-
castle since the end of 1891, when it was
formed to weld the interests of the old
Hunter River and Newcastle S.S. cos.
Establishment of steel and other works
at Newcastle helped to swell earnings,
despite rail and road competition, and
for the dozen years to the end of 1929
a steady 10 p.c. was paid, sweetened with
£20,000 of bonus scrip in 1920. Slump
and the sickness in the coal trade gave
earnings a jolt, and the div. dropped to
5 p.c. in 1931. It has continued on the
up-grade since, thanks to the commence-
ment of wool sales and the revival of
industrial activity at Newcastle.
At 40s. 3d. the pound shares return
4.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Allied Motor Interests (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1925.. 129,050 20 p.c. = 85,629 43,427 45,933
1926.. 94,777 174 „ ~ 74,92 5 1 9,85 2 65,785
Written off shares in subsidiary, £68,766 [ 7n7
1927.. 34,688 Nil 34,688 j 61,J 1
1928.. 1,098 Nil 1,098 32,805
1929.. 2,142 Nil 2,142 34,947
Deficit.
Interest in subsidiaries written down,
£249,024 214,077
10s. per share struck off capital, £214,077
Loss.
1930.. 1,304 Nil 1,304
1931.. 7,484 Nil 8,788
1932.. 2,505 Nil 11,293
Interest in subsidiaries written down,
£126,424 137,717
1933.. 1,201 Nil 138,918
1934.. 5,969 Nil 144,887
Profit.
1935. . 1,259 Nil 1,259 143,628
Originally it was Tarrants Motors,
formed in Melbourne in 1911 to take
over the Ford agency. After the war the
board decided to launch out in a large
way, and this Allied co. was formed in
1923. It had a paid capital of £428,144,
and controlled half a dozen subsidiaries,
one in the motor-body building business,
and the others in the car-selling trade,
etc. For the three years to the end of
July, 1926, divs. totalling 55 p.c. were
paid. Then the Ford agency was lost,
trading conditions changed, and in 1929
combined figures disclosed losses total-
ling £196,680 and £39,507 of goodwill.
There was then £483,829 coming to credi-
tors, including the bank (£303,198); more
or less liquids totalled £367,020. The
intangibles were rubbed out by jettison-
ing half the capital, reducing it to
£214,072 in 10s. shares, of which 6s. 9d.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


GEORGE, WISE KING AND GOOD CITIZEN


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEC
■
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
I
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE ANi> DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalg'ety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Cha.s. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalg'ety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION
PRICES !
11l
Extensively used i>y Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour.
Consumption .. Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
(= £143,628) was unrepresented by tan-
gibles at the close of last accounts.
The writing off of capital had no effect
upon the debt or the earning power of
the assets. The drift continued, so it'
was decided to pull out of the car-
trading business and concentrate upon
body-building. This and the temporary
operation of the body-works as a unit-
production factory and their reconver-
sion to mass production resulted in losses
totalling £144,887 over the five, years to
the close of accounts in 1934.
Owing to the revival in the motor
trade, last' year was the best that Ruskin
Motor Bodies, the co.’s only active sub-
sidiary, has experienced since its incep-
tion. One result was that this Allied co.
was able to show a profit of £1259. Since
the curtain is kept drawn over the operat-
ing co.’s figures, nothing is known of its
present financial position, except that the
overdraft is still considerable. Contracts
in hand are said to be sufficient to keep
the plant occupied until the end of 1936.
Since the close of accounts share-
holders have agreed to convert 67,160
ord. shares, owned or controlled by de-
positors (three directors and another)
who gave up claims against the co.
amounting to £33,580, into 67,160 6 p.c.
non-cumulative non-participating 6 p.c.
pref. shares of 10s. each. The conver-
sion is not to take effect, until the ords.
have had a div. of £5352, or 2\ p.c. on
capital as it now stands. On the basis
of figures at the end of July last, the
preferred shares would have a net tan-
gible backing of 21s. each, and the ords.
Is. Bd. each.
The market prices the 10s. paid ords.
at 2s. 9d.
L. V. Waterhouse, who has done good
work as technical director of Bulolo
Gold Dredging and Placer Development,
will leave Sydney early in February for
the U.S.A., en route to Columbia, S.
America, where Placer has large interests
in the Plato Consolidated and Asnazu
Gold cos. Bulolo, he says, has placed
an order with a Sydney engineering firm
for the hull and superstructure of No.
5 dredge, delivery of which is expected
in about seven months. It is to dig 80ft.
below water level, and wifl be able to
handle 250,000 c.y. monthly. Designs
for No. 6 dredge, which is to dig 115 ft.
below water level, are not yet complete.
Excluding its Wau area, Bulolo’s ground
contains about 200,000,000 c.y. of wash,
the average value of which has not been
announced ; final tests have not yet been
completed. Deep drilling on the upper
half of the co.’s original area has dis-
closed approximately a million cubic
yards of a recoverable value of between
25 cents and 40 cents per yard, with
gold at 35 dollars per fine ounce. With
five dredges working to capacity, there
is about 12 years’ work ahead of the co.
One of the machines on the Bulowat
area is to be transferred to Wau.
On behalf of the Mt. Ore Development
Syndicate, Melbourne, Francis Morgan
has taken an option over Iron Island,
one of the Northumberland group, about
40 miles north-east of Rockhampton (Q.).
It is 20 chains long by eight chains wide,
and rises to a height of 120 ft., and is
said to contain 2,500,000 tons of proved
iron ore above water level. The idea is
to dispose of the property to Japanese
interests, with whom negotiations have
been opened. At present the island is held
under mineral lease for 21 years from
1933 by A. Lovell, of Sydney, from
whom the option was obtained, and who
is to receive £lO,OOO if it is exercised.
Early in this century the Queensland
Government thought of setting up iron
and steel works there. Later the old Mt.
Morgan Co. removed 307,606 tons of
ore up to 1917, when' operations ceased.
The ore consists mainly of crypto-crystal-
line magnetite, with massive haematite ;
there is scarcely a trace of visible im-
purity. A sample taken across the width
of the island assayed 64.72 p.c. iron. The
specific gravity of the ore is 4.5, so each
cubic yard weighs 3.4 tons. A jetty,
plant, truck-lines and other equipment
on the island are valued at £3OOO.
* * * *
Anglo-Queensland Mining Pty., formed
in April, 1935, by Mining Trust, Ameri-
can Smelting and Refining and other
overseas interests, has abandoned its
option over the Great Fitzroy and other
areas at Kidston (Q.). Fear that diffi-
culties with labor might prevent con-
tinuous large-scale operations was the
reason given.
* * * *
Although nothing worth mentioning is
yet known about the behavior of ore-
bodies at depth, mining inspector L. M.
Stuttend is optimistic concerning the
future of Tennant’s Creek, Centralia.
Since April, 1935, the field has yielded
81690 z. gold from 7518 tons of more or
less selected ore. The Lone Star
crushed 1862 tons for 16230 z. and the
Rising Sun 1033 tons for 12840 z. Uro
Gold Development, which has taken over
the Eldorado, on the Mt. Samuel line
of lode, is expected to crush some rich
ore soon. There are two batteries operat-
ing on the field, and a third is being
erected. Water still remains a problem,
although a good supply for drinking pur-
poses has been struck about seven miles
from the township.
* * * *
A sample of ore from the Red Ned,
Mt. Samuel and Rising Sun mines, Ten-
nant’s Creek, Centralia, was recently for-
warded to the Adelaide School of Mines
by N. C. Bell, director of mines in the
Territory. The parcel consisted of haema-
tite and quartz, with some limonite.
One lot assayed 14.4dwt. and the other
11.3dwt. gold per ton. As for treatment,
amalgamation and cyanidation were
found to be the most suitable. Magnetic
concentration left 17dwt. in the tailings ;
fine grinding, followed by amalgamation,
reduced the value of the residue to 2dwt.,
while cyanidation gave a 95 p.c. recovery.
* * * *
The syndicate (chiefly miners) working
the old Anchor tinmines, Lottah (Tas.),
has met with success. Output for the
last 12 months was 100 tons of tin con-
centrates, and those on the register re-
ceived divs. totalling £3 10s. per share.
Paid capital is £3OOO. During the year
a 10-head battery, later increased to 20-
head, together with concentrating plant,
etc., was installed. Mining is from an
open face, 30ft. high.
* * * *
Kuala Lumpur (paid capital £130,800),
operating at Kalumpang, Selangor
(F.M.S.), netted £20,930 for the year to
Sept. 30 last as against £21,908 for the
preceding 12 months. No. 2 dredge pro-
duced the permitted quota, treating
908,005 c.y. for 285.3 tons of t. 0., averag-
ing 75.88 p.c. metallic tin. The average
yield was .7041 b. per c.y. as against
.6891 b. in 1934. After paying royalty,
the value per cubic yard was 11.43 d. as
against 12.07 d. ; costs were .914 d.
heavier at 6.089 d., mainly owing to the
cost of reconditioning No. 2 dredge. It
commenced work in October, 1934, when
No. 1 closed down. No. 1, now being
-reconditioned, is to set in on the other
side of the Penang-road when repairs
are complete. Approximately 1000 acres,
of which 807 are expected to yield aver-
age returns, remain to be dredged. Since
the close of accounts a shilling div.
(£10,820) has been declared, payable
Feb. 28.
* * * *
Re-treatment of the tailings taken over
by the new Golden Horseshoe Co.
(W.A.) six years ago has been a profit-
able venture. Of the original capital
(£220,000) £55,000 has been returned ; and
£137,500 has been paid in divs. The
present position is that the £165,000 of
capital is represented by cash and invest-
ments valued at over £251,000, and
some 200,000 tons of tailings remain to
be re-treated. Purchase consideration for
dumps recently taken over from the
Boulder Co. consists of an initial pay-
ment of £62,536 (Australian), plus 50 p.c.
of the profits. In arriving at profits, the
co. is entitled to make a special charge
of 6d. per ton against revenue for each
ton treated from No. 1 dump, contain-
ing about 1,900,000 tons, and 3d. per
ton (Aust. in both cases) in respect of
No. 2 dump, containing over 1,000,000
tons. Average value per ton of No. 1
dump is 1.65dwt., and of No. 2 dump
1.035dwt. per ton. The co. will thus re-
coup itself to the extent of about one-
half of the initial cash payment for the
dumps. It has decided to increase
the monthly capacity of its treatment
plant from 40,000 to 60,000 long tons,
at an estimated cost of £25,000.
* * * *
Westralia’s Minister for Mines Munsie
has approved of an advance of £250 to
Wiluna Ajax, on a pound-for-pound
basis, to assist in boring to cut the 60ft.
No. 4 lode at a vertical depth of 400 ft.
The State Mining Engineer has marked
the spot where boring is to commence,
probably early in February. T. Leonard,
who was originally interested in the
property, predicts that the mine will be
large and profitable. The Moonlight
Wiluna Co. has taken up the ground on
the co.’s southern boundary.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia, a Melbourne
prospecting concern, headed by Colin
Fraser, with A. J. Agnew on the Lon-
don board, has thrown off Darlot (W.A.)
Gold Development, nominal capital
£BOOO in shares of 40s. each, to test
three reefs about 40 miles north of Darlot
(W.A.). T. R. Victor says there is a
reasonable chance of opening up suffi-
cient pay ore to warrant flotation of a
larger co. and the installation of treat-
ment plant.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder makes no secret of its
intention to treat later on, if the mine
will stand it, 30,000 tons a month. Mean-
time, money is being spent freely on
plant improvement and special develop-
ment. These items absorbed £13,481 in
December, and will probably mop up
substantial sums for some time to come.
A few years ago the days of this
property were said to be numbered. But
the price of gold was then less than half
what it is now.
* * * *
Imperial, whose holdings are on the
southern border of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), has broadcast
favorable developments. On one of its
two areas (Aberdare) good values are
reported to have been exposed in winz-
ing to the No. 4 level, and on the other
(Idaho) an Bft. good-grade gold-carrier
has been struck. Imperial’s prospects
appear to be on the up-grade.
* * * *
Adelaide - controlled Westralian Re-
nown, which has had to contend with
one demned thing after another, now
announces suspension of operations,
pending the arrival of atomisers from
England. Funds are low, and reconstruc-
tion seems likely. The board is sanguine
that the mine will beat the market, but
doesn’t venture to predict when.
* * * *
New Golconda, a resurrected Murchi-
son (W.A.) venture in which both the
East and West are interested, has sent a
300-ton crushing to a local State battery.
The return is expected to encourage
holders to hang on. So far the richness
of the old workings has not been dupli-
cated in new ground, but developments
haven’t been bad.
* * * *
Sydney-controlled Lake View South
Extended, which adjoins Imperial at
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has mapped develop-
ments below 500 ft., where it is officially
considered the mine has a chance. Power
and hoisting plant has been installed,
and there are ample funds to carry on.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated, Ora Banda
(W.A.), has put out an intermediate drive
33ft. below the No. 2 level on Nichol-
son’s lease. Values vary from loz. 7dwt.
to 2oz. lOdwt. over 42in. A 17-ton
sample assayed 2oz. lOdwt.
* * * *
After abandoning options over the
Great Northern, at Malcolm, and the
Childe Harold group, at Laverton (W.A.),
the Melbourne-controlled Australian
Prospecting Co. turned its attention to
Fiji, where it has also been unable to find
anything worth developing. At the end
of Oct. last the co. had £1253 in the
bank. A new show, location not stated,
is now being examined.
* * * *
A recent geological examination of
South; Kalgurli’s Golden Mile (W.A.)
property suggests that it will be a
dividend-payer for a long time.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) has de-
clared an interim 121 p.c. (3d. per share
in sterling),- free of British income tax,
payable Feb. 12. A similar payment was
made in Oct. last.
* * * *
It is expected that Upper Sepik Gold
Syndicate, a Melbourne prospecting con-
cern, will soon form a working co. to
take over an alluvial area about four
miles west of Wau, New Guinea. J. M.
Spence is checkboring the property.
* * * *
Sir Robert Kotze, formerly Govern-
ment mining engineer and now a member
of Parliament in S. Africa, predicts con-
tinued expansion of goldmining on Wit-
watersrand. He forecasts that five years
hence the tonnage milled will be 50 p.c.
greater than to-day, and will be doubled
in 10 or 12 years’ time.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* v * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B.' Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
1935 General Catalogue.— Advt.


N
Ml
*4
Mi
Four brothers of Aldenham (Herts.)
Spent their days singing dirges in perts,
Till they took to Schweppes Tonics
And dropped their harmonics
For the wholesome diversion of derts.
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- dirtA tjVU
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
Or
On
0
0
c.v>
Fto'
'OUfMST
°£onls£
Jurist fir
0
O
rW**
Tourist
s>\
orfos
0
o' v
70UPv'^
ors 9
0
o
0
TOU?'
ORIENT LINERS
in a regular service with
TOURIST CLASS
—designed to please those who
want to see the world in substan-
tial comfort but who prefer not
to sustain the cost of luxuries.
TO ENGLAND from
i. 39
PLUS EXCHANGE-
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
Outback Teachers
. The experiences of Jessica in Tiburon
are quite mild compared with those of
girls teaching in subsidised bush schools
on the Westralian wheatbelt; and I
ought to know—l boarded half a dozen
during three years of the depression.
The Government subsidy was not suffi-
cient for the teachers to pay any board
money, as there were only four pupils.
I gave them the best I had, but city girls
rebelled at salt pork, rabbits, eggs, whole-
meal bread, wheat coffee, and bath water
rationed during the summer. One girl
told me daily she had always had an
electric iron to press her clothes. Finally
she said I was mean, and left without
notice. Wheat was 2s. per bushel; and
there were barcoo sores on my children
through lack of fruit. One teacher with
a sense of humor bore it bravely with-
out complaint, but left at the first chance
of a city job.
Whose fault? Not the teachers’, nor
mine.— Opal Lynn (W.A.).
Was Cerutty Right?
The ex-Auditor-General’s Parliamen-
tary critics were not confined to the Labor
Opposition, but included his Ministerial
head and individual members of the
Lyons party. A queer unanimity this.
Queerer still to find that unanimity on
the side of something wrong.
The Bulletin cites the case of a pen-
sioner who gathered £lO,OOO from a will,
but continued to draw pension for nearly
two years (l/l/’36), and it gives other
minor instances. Did they not warrant
Mr. Cerutty in stating at the time —years
before he bothered to feature them—that
the administration of the Pensions Office
was beyond redemption? That is the main
moral to be pointed, and the principal
tale to be adorned, by Mr. Cerutty’s final
report.
Life-assurance companies have been de-
frauded to an almost unbelievable extent.
Fire-insurance companies have been ex-
ploited still more.
Certainly correct administrative errors,
certainly have rigorous inspection and
supervision; but do not condemn an
affirmed and worthy institution because
its beneficiary advantages have been im-
posed upon by a few persons who will
always be found, in their average num-
bers, in every community. Rather extend
the principle which is expressed by mak-
ing all sorts of essential insurance avail-
able for everybody, and an obligatory
charge on wages or salaries or income
until a better scheme is devised. —J. A.
Fihelly (Q.).
Sea- or Land-’planes
The British Air Ministry and our
Australian Defence heads seem to have
reached a deadlock in the matter of
flying-boats for mail purposes. Surely
the use of seacraft for ocean crossings
and of land craft for land crossings should
satisfy both sides, for the' time being.
Is the difficulty of transhipment insur-
mountable?
J. Bull usually takes a longheaded
view, and supremacy over Empire sea-
routes is worth striving for. Advantages
of stowing space and safety, as exampled
by liners on the sea and trains on the
earth, are worthy of study. For defence
purposes, craft which can cross the sea
and squat on it to conserve their fuel
for great occasions, can, also, if need be,
lob down on a river inland—or take off
from safe waterage out of range of
marauding ships—are not to be sneezed
at. But we must always be mindful of
the need to develop mail routes inland. —■
SOP (Q.).
Park Hill
Mr. Parkhill secured the dedication of
North Head, Sydney, as a park in his
constituency, which gratefully named ir
Park Hill. Then he had £lB,OOO of Com-
monwealth money spent on improving it.
Then he had a bit of it taken away by
his department to plant big guns on.
After that, a new dedication, with more
praise for Mr. Parkhill.
Mr. Parkhill, of Park Hill, promises
that another slice —the quarantine
station valley—may be handed over to
picnickers. When that is done, and it
has been named Arch Dale, the possi-
bilities of the area should be exhausted.
—Z.N. (N.S.W.).
The School-leaving Age
It is fairly obvious that the Australian
States will have to fall into line with
other countries and raise the school age
to 15—if not to 16, as some places have
done. On the face of it, there is no
sane criticism to be levelled against 16 ;
youngsters learn more valuable things
during their final years of tuition than
they do in all the rest put together. But
an extension from 14 to 15 will bring
much hardship on poorer families.
Many people— not those on the dole
but those working for the basic wage—
look eagerly forward to the day when
their youngsters will leave school and
be able to bring a few shillings towards
balancing the weekly budget. It is a
pitiful thing that youngsters of 14 and a
bit should be compelled to work at all,
when their lives should be divided be-
tween acquiring knowledge and acquir-
ing health. But under existing conditions
the position is unavoidable.
When Shaftesbury introduced legisla-
tion to prevent the sweating of small
children in the English coalmines, he
did only what was right, but that
righteous act hit' many colliers’ homes
hard, and led to vigorous protests from
the very class Shaftesbury sought to pro-
tect. — Grasspan (Vic.).
Psittacosis
Every now and then Australia is
scared by the appearance of psittacosis
among human beings. The chances of
infection can be stamped out for good in
a very simple way: let it be an offence to
keep a caged bird of the parrot species.
Free from contact with the birds, human
beings would run no chance of infection,
and the only sufferer would be the well-
meaning old lady who believes herself
to be kindly because she scratches cocky’s
head and gives him a lump of sugar
whenever she thinks he wants it. It never
strikes that kindly old lady that she is
guilty of the most brutal action in being
party to a bird being taken from its own
environment and forced to lead an un-
natural life, enslaved merely to tickle the
vanity of a person deficient in imagina-
tion. The keeping of animals in con-
finement—or at any rate in cages—is
nothing but sheer cruelty in most in-
stances, though I am perfectly willing to
admit that in respect of a few —monkeys,
for example—they appear to lead lives
just as happy as they would in the
jungle.—G. M. (Vic.).
What the World Missed
You say (B. l/l/’36) “The persistent
efforts of the Czar to make the Holy
Alliance the basis of a general confedera-
tion of Europe were frustrated —by
Castlereagh.” In effect, England did for
the Holy Alliance what U.S.A. did for
the League—ruined it at its birth by
refusing to become a member. Castle-
reagh is commended for breaking away
from Prussia and her Allies, and form-
ing what later grew to be an alliance
with France ; and the result was 1914-18.
No wonder he cut his throat. If France
had been dismembered in 1815, there
might have been no Great War. Had
Germany been similarly treated in 1918,
there could be no Greater War in 1936 or
thereabouts. The comparison between
the Czar Alexander and Woodrow Wilson
doesn’t hold. Alexander was all for
effectively crushing his enemy in 1815 ;
Wilson prevented similar logical pro-
cedure in 1918. — Yah Khan (N.S.W.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bufo”: The frigate bird, once the
world’s long-distance speed champion of
the air, must hide his diminished head in
the presence of three parrots which flew
from Longreach (Q.) to Brisbane in six
hours. More remarkable still, they flew
in cages, and all arrived at the same time.
A week previously a dozen fireflies flew
from Brisbane to Sydney (in a match-
box) in less than five hours. The old
comic-song joke about pigs flying is out
of date —several prize porkers have been
flying about Australia lately. In New
Guinea cows fly from the coast right up
into the mountains. From Normanton
(N.Q.) quantities of fish —not flying-fish,
either—fly for hundreds of miles inland.
Certainly some aeroplanes have been
mixed up with these performances, but
there is no doubt that the animal creation
is steadily becoming more and more air-
minded.
* * * *
“Marlinspike”: Although Mr. Zane
Grey’s visit will doubtless result in valu-
able development of big-game fishing as
an Australian sport, the flood of press
blurb which is being let loose about his
individual performances should be taken
with a substantial seasoning of salt. Mr.
Grey did not invent swordfishing with a
rod —years before he was heard of, either
as author or fisherman, Cameron,
Andreas, Dr. Pope and others, Maori-
landers and Australians, were fight-
ing them successfully in M.L. These
pioneers did not use high-speed launches,
fitted with elaborate gear ; they did the
work from dinghies, with a single oars-
man sitting on the after thwart, and
they had many dangerous and exciting
experiences.
* * * *
“Gryilus”: Every beach visitor knows
the busy little crab which lives, between
tides, in a burrow surrounded by a
neatly-arranged pattern of round sand
pellets. Few realise that these pellets are
not merely the dump from the creature’s
mining operations ; they really are the
undigestible waste from its food, which
consists of very minute particles of
organic matter in the original sand. Sit
by quietly, and after a little preliminary
suspicion it will demonstrate the whole
process by scooping up a mouthful, suck-
ing it rapidly and spitting out the sand
as a round pellet, deposited in a neat
line radiating from the burrow entrance.
It gets its popular name of sand-bubbler
from the bubble of air which rises to
the surface when it emerges under water
to come ashore to dig a new burrow.
The toadfish make it a perilous—often
a fatal —journey.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Those giant South Gipps-
land earthworms (B. 8/1/’36) occur also
in north-east Tasmania, which is prac-
tically the same stretch of country cut
in two by Bass Strait. Their burrows
are lined with a waterproof skin, and
partly filled with an excreted, glycerine-
like fluid. As the worm moves along the
burrow the displaced fluid makes a
gurgling sound by which the giants can
be located if one listens at the ground
in likely spots. Allied species, though
not so large, are to be found along the
east coast of Australia as far north as
Queensland. They are, by the way, a
splendid fish bait, either in salt or fresh
water. Also, they have been responsible
for many of the “observed” instances of
snake-killing by Jacky the Kookaburra.
That wily bird likes nothing better than
to pull the legs of nature-study enthu-
siasts by collecting a big worm when it
comes out after rain and whacking it
on a branch in full view of a party of
city naturalists.
* * * *
“Amity Point”: Don’t sneer at stin-
garee as food (B. 15/1/’36). A flap
from a small one —naturally the 10-
footers are coarse —when boiled and
served with white sauce is as sweet and
as good as the flesh of many much-
boomed varieties. It is firm and flaky,
and very like European halibut, from
which when cooked it is difficult to dis-
tinguish it —and imported halibut brings
a high price in Australia. The sailing
men of Moreton Bay (Q.) often used to
put stingaree flaps on the menu, though
other fish were available. When the
trawlers were first started in N.S.W. the
flaps were sold in the State shops, and
were in good demand.
* * * *
“T.H.”: How’s this for brute strength?
A full-grown bullock died on the banks
of a fresh-water river in the N.T. from
the effects of snake-bite. The slope was
loose drift-sand, and the grade was about
one in one. Pandanus palms
grew fairly thickly close to the
water’s edge. The day after
the beast died we found him
jambed between two pan-
“ That's not the Way We brand 'em in the Old Country , sir!"
danus, dragged there, obviously, by a
crocodile, whose tracks were all over the
place. Next day there was no sign of him,
parallel with the stream for about fifteen
feet, and finally down to the river again,
disappearing between an opening in the
palms, told the tale. That saurian had to
exercise muscle and brain, but a feed the
size of a bullock was evidently worth it.
* *« G . D » * (B . 4 /12/’35)
f h and “ stat j on ” as applying
, ear li es t reference he can find is Sturt’s
. Australia (1883) The History of
McComb j e J published in 1858, states:
’ October 1824 they
r Hume and Hovenden ] left Mr. Hume’s
. Station > the i ast which was then
oc ied on the yi ctor i a n side.” Many
re f erences are ma de in this book to
{ ’forties j Melbourne,
member Qf Town Council . L ater
he wa§ elected tQ thg Legis i at ive Council.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”; “Walkabout” has either an
exalted opinion of the checking power of
the Territory-Queensland border fence
or a poor idea of the bull buffalo’s regard
for it as an obstacle (B. 8/l/’36). Station
cattle sometimes take this short-cut at
the expense of the barbed wire on top.
I did the trip on a horse myself —quite
involuntarily on my part. We were
bringing cattle over the dry stage be-
tween Herbertvale and Rocklands, and,
to spell my own horses, I put my saddle
on a spare packhorse—a chestnut with
a strong dash of Suffolk Punch in him
and a mean political expression in his
eye. As I hit the saddle he hit out for
the border fence. We hit it, making
a four-point landing in Queensland.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Elderslie station (W.Q.)
was something more than a sanctuary
for topknot pigeons (B. 25 /12 / ’35).
C. J. Brabazon treated bagmen as did
few Queensland graziers. Elderslie
became a home from home for hundreds
throughout the year, and the duration of
free board was unlimited. The frater-
nity who made it a practice to “live”
at Elderslie knew nearly as much about
the station as did CJ.B. himself. One
day a traveller asked Brabazon when
shearing would commence. “Don’t
know,” answered CJ.B. quite seriously,
“but if you go down to the hut and in-
quire they’ll tell you when shearing will
start, how long it will last, how many
sheep I’ve got and how much money.”
* * * *
“Flash”: After a dry spell does the
earth get charged with static electricity,
or with some darned thing of a different
name and similar habits? In W.Q., after
nine months or more without a drop of
rain, the season opened with a dry thun-
derstorm. At every flash of lightning,
though it was many miles away, the dogs,
tied in their kennels, howled in agony.
Knowing the difference betwen a dog’s
cry of pain and other noises they make I
went out to have a look. I came back
inside at the double. As I moved through
that' dry air, with every distant flash of
lightning the air about me was lit with a
halo of sparks and fizzes, of streaks and
sparkles.
“3.o”: Queer cases of the effects of
lightning? An old-timer on the Moonee
(s.w. Q.) bears the imprint of a' trace-
chain after half a century. In his youth
he was struck while carrying a chain
across his shoulder. The photographic
record is imprinted upon his shoulder and
back.
* * * 5
“Heresone”: I don’t know about blue
moons (B. 8/1 / ’36), but I’ve seen a blue
sun more than once during the
“Bedourie” duststorms. The dust is im-
palpable, and forms an almost opaque,
reddish-grey haze. Through this the sun
occasionally appears as a pale disc of
livid blue, not at all dazzling to the naked
eye. It casts over the landscape a
peculiar ghastly light that evokes sym-
pathetic “blues” in the observer.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: Australia’s best-flavored
fish (B. 1/1 /’36)? Give me a snapper,
81b. or thereabouts ; stuffed with fine, dry
breadcrumbs, seasoned sparingly with
onions, parsley and butter. Wrap in but-
tered paper and bake, serving, when
cooked, with oyster sauce —and remem-
ber, please, that the sauce must not be
boiled after the oysters have been added.
For a second choice I’ll take fried
flounder or sea whiting, with sauce tar-
tare, There’s nothing wrong with cur-
ried red rock-cod, though some connois-
seurs prefer the black cod, boiled. If
you want a toothsome titbit in the way
of smoked fish, try the gar. It is minus
the oily quality which makes smoked
mullet so indigestible, and is of a deli-
cious flavor. Still, tastes differ. The wife
of a deep-sea fisherman always claimed
first choice of the catch. Her favorite
was leatherjacket. A fisherman neat
Swansea (N.S.W.) bridge once recom-
mended baked porcupine fish to me. You
stuff the spiny one with a bream —and
eat the bream.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Cases of men shot by
dogs seem to be so common as to almost
cease to be news (B. 8/1 /’35), so what
about a dog that started a motor-lorry,
rode in it a mile, then jumped out and
galloped back to meet the pursuers? They
were just in time to see the lorry plunge
into a creek. It was between Barna-
watha and Wodonga (Vic.), and the lorry
was left standing with the engine run-
ning while the owner, his mate and dog
sought the whereabouts of a snake on
the side of the road. When they turned
to the lorry, the mong. anticipated them
by jumping into the front. He knocked
the gear lever into second with his rump,
fell on the accelerator, and before the
men could reach the vehicle it careered
away.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’il”: Murray cod bait (B.
25/12/’35)? “The 0.D.” omits the two
best ones for an old-man cod. Live carp
up to nine inches, puddled from holes
in drying-up creeks, are mostly used on
set-lines, but for big fish the gaudy car-
cass of a parrot stands alone. Many a
row I’ve had with Murray fishermen for
shooting rock-pebbler parrots for bait,
though once I helped to haul ashore a
37-pounder that had swallowed one of
these birds on a small shark-hook.
* rt: # *
“Ellenvale”: “Sound sleepers, is it?”
asked Bogan Bill. “I’m pretty good on
the feathers me-
self, but a bloke
I camped with
on the Snowy
River beat me
out of sight. I
was woke up
one night by a
kind of rumb-
lin’, spoutin’
noise. When I
strikes a light I
finds a flood ’as
come down dur-
ing the night,
an’ me an’ the
bed is floatin’
round the ’ut.
But me cobber
is still asleep.
He was bunkin’
on an iron bed
that never rose
with the tide,
an’ all I could see of ’im was ’is
ginger whiskers stickin’ up outa the
water. Every time he snored he drew
in a coupla gallons of water and then
blew it out like a blanky whale. I
reckoned I saved ’is life by wakin’ ’im
up, but ’e was quite annoyed about it —
’e reckoned a bit o’ water like that wasn’t
enough to spoil a man’s sleep.”
# * * *
“Jimmac”: Surprising how many
people can’t tell a boiled from a raw egg
without breaking the shell. A boiled
egg will spin on a smooth surface like
a top ; a raw egg won’t spin.
* * * *
“Artist”: I have heard boundary-riders
referred to by many names. Blue-
tongues, lizards, hatters, boundary-
jerkers, wire-inspectors and paddock-
parasites are just a few of those which
will pass the censor. Lately I was glanc-
ing through Wenz’s Mon Journal. I didn’t
understand more than an odd bit here
and there ; but I did find that he had
given the boundary-rider a title which
suited down to the ground —Cavalier de
limite. As an artist of the boundary, on
behalf of my many brothers of the cult l
rise from the shade of an emu apple
and salute M. Wenz.
#.* * *
“Packbag”: As to places the spurwing
plover frequents (B. 18/12/’35), can
any Aboliar say why these fowls preler
to nest on bush roads and claypans.
Around Euston (N.S.W.) their favorite
spot to lay each year is on the small
clearings beside roads in the way oi
travelling sheep.
RABBITS.
ë
ē
JIM GRAILAME.


ê
“No ball, did y' say? Well, ’e seems t' differ.”
looked somehow low and damp. Well,
I couldn’t sleep for the racket made by
the frogs. At first it was only a sort of
row, but presently I caught words from
it. ‘Fluke!’ one big fellow would boom,
and then the others would all croak
‘Footrot!’ ‘Footrot!’ They were givin’
me the oil, all right! Just before dawn
I crept out and caught the train back
to town. The bloke who bought that
farm later never did any good there.”
* s= * *
“Lemillill”: “Dungeness” states that
clam shellfish are not dangerous to
human life (B. 27/11 / ’35). I was tre-
pang-fishing in N.T. waters for five years.
In Popham Bay there were literally hun-
dreds of these shellfish. The natives
always spoke of them as a menace to
those who walked about in the waters.
One “boy,” Old Jimmy, was out one
day spearing fish. He did not return to
the camp ; the next floodtide deposited
his corpse on the beach. On his left
leg were the marks where a clam shell-
fish had held him until he was drowned.
* * * *
“Bungarrer”: Bulbs run wild (B.
25/12/’35)? The soursop has become a
noxious weed in Adelaide suburbs.
Vacant lots, orchards, gardens and pave-
ments are as yellow as butter for three
parts of the year. This succulent weed
will come up through asphalt and con-
crete: I have seen it growing in vents
and gutterings and forcing its way be-
tween skirting-boards in new buildings.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Tenor” (B. 18/12/’35) puts
up “The Old Bark Hut” and “Willie
Stone” as singing-camp marathons.
Alongside “The Kelly Boys,” popular in
shearers’ huts about the time that gang
capitulated, they are mere sprints. The
“Kelly” ditty was delivered in serial
form. Usually five nights and a very
raspy voice were occupied in bellowing
through the 250 verses which, in the
opening stanza, told how “The Kelly
boys would live,” finishing with an
account of how “they nobly fought and
died.”
* * * *
“Bill R.”: To me it seems that the
animated leaf in “Cam Cove’s” posses-
sion (B. 8/1 / ’36) is a camouflaged butter-
fly rather than, as he opines, a dead leaf
carried about by enclosed spiders. The
shifts extended over too much distance
and were too sudden and rapid for insect
manipulation. Some specimens of butter-
flies in the Sydney Museum cannot be
identified from pairs of curled, dried
gumleaves.
* * * *
“Beesknees”: In the house yard of a
property in the Warialda (N.S.W.) dis-
trict I recently saw three death-adders,
all killed on the same day and all of
different colors. One was black with
light stripes, one brown with light
stripes, and one beige with dark stripes.
The soil for a radius of about a mile
around the house is a light, sandy loam.
* * * *
“Napoosis Ogemaw”: Apparently a
new type of farmhand is being developed
in the upper reaches of Bananaland. Out
of Bundaberg the other day we were
held up temporarily by cows which were
being herded by an immaculately dressed
youth on a motor-cycle. This new ver-
sion of Dave sported a silk shirt and
beautifully tailored breeks. He explained
that mustering by
motor-bike enabled
him to call it a day
in time to see the
pictures in town, 20
miles away.
H* *l*
“Walkabout”: Tell
“Bogaduck” (B.
1/1 / ’36) I don’t
need to inspect
museum skulls of
long-since - departed
Binghis to get any
information about
their teeth. I’ve
seen too many of
them in the flesh,
from Boulia to Wyndham ; and with the
exception of those few whose ivories
were worn a bit and those who had their
two central incisors missing—a tribal
necessity—l envied the majority their
fine teeth. If a race exists with better
grinders than Binghi’s I’ve yet to locate it.
¥ * * *
“Sailor”: “Colonel Bungstarter” will
find his self-milking cow (B. 1/1 /’36) on
a farm in the Gosford district. The
cow, a four-year-old Jersey, has acquired
a taste for its own product, and if left
without a special yoke robs the owner
of his vitamins and bone-building salts.
Strawberry’s owner has named her the
“bachelors’ cow.”
* * * *
“R.P.W.”: Caves Beach, Swansea, is
not the only place where the sun has
been observed with a circle (B. 25/12/’35).
I have seen it at Broken Hill, and was
told by an old bushman who had wifi
nessed the phenomenon before that it
inevitably meant rain. Sure enough, we
had l|in. in the next two days.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: The expletive “My
colonial blanky cabbage-tree” may have
gone to the pack (B. 25/12/’35), but it is
only one of many. Who ever hears now
“The year that Billy Winters wore the
black trousers” —meaning an indefinite
time in the vague long ago? Does one
man in a million ever refer to “Major
Mitchell” —meaning to take a zigzag
course or to get bushed? How many
could tell you whether a “Jack Shea”
was a pug., a movie star, a fencer or a
quart-pot?—the last has it. We old-
timers pretend to scoff at the
modern saddle, with its knee-
pads ; we never make refer-
ence to the “kid.” If we did,
not one in a thousand would
know that it referred to a
bunch of lignum twigs rolled
in basil or canvas, strapped
across the pommel of the
saddle and giving a better
hold than any modern knee-
pad. Crooked Mick is now
a forgotten identity; yet, in
the days of the cabbage-tree,
Mick was a mightly warrior
—the king of ’em all. And
does that fellow who uses the
pen-name “Speewaa” know
where the Speewah really is?
Does he know of the mighty
stations which rested on its banks, of
the floods and droughts it knew, of the
shearing tallies and fencing records on its
watershed, of the thousand of other
things that' happened it ere the car and
progress pushed it right off the map?
*
“Rasmus”: For years I have noticed
that the peewee almost invariably has the
home of a wagtail in close proximity to
its mud nest. Peewees have increased in
numbers in Queensland coastal districts
over the last 20 years, the prevalence of
the cattle-tick probably being responsible.
Some wagtails built a nest outside my
place recently. No sooner was it com-
pleted than a pair of peewees arrived
and, amidst great clamor, tore it to
pieces. Then the peewees selected a site
and commenced building, on seeing
which the wagtails rebuilt on another
site, but closer to the peewees.
if « * *
“Jachris”: The bandicoot may earn
his keep up in the cane country (B.
22/1/’36), but- he’d better not apply for
a ration card anywhere about Sydney ;
on the north side, at least, the rat-
faced little fellow has long ago been de-
clared an “habitual.” At the beginning
of the summer five dogs in our street
died from tick-poisoning; three of them
were pedigreed. The bandicoots are
chiefly to blame ; coming up from the
gullies around Northbridge to root in
the gardens, they carry the ticks with
them. An Alsatian a couple of doors
away averages three or four bandies a
week. He collects a bounty on each
carcass.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: “Public Enemy No. 1”
(B. 15/1 /’36) would have the kookaburra
outlawed on false testimony. In 25 years
of close association with Jackie I have
never known him kill another bird ; I’ve
only seen him brawling with another
bird once, and that was a willie-wagtail,
which sent Jackie streaking into the
bush. He won’t even destroy another
bird’s nest, and he’s powerful enough to
wreck the biggest. In bad seasons he
reverts to his old fishing habit, and,
although trees are alive with other birds
ready for easy picking, I’ve never seen
him even attempt to molest them.
Hungry jacks have come to my camp for
a hand-out many a time.
“You hit me, Maria, an you'll hear more of it.”
“You hit me, Tummas, an y WONT hear more of it."
THE BOOK.
ė
ę
TROY.


HIT'S
LYS
I
PROOF
MUItM
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
I’.
J
IMt t } 1
!« ¥
"VI
f|S!
i
m*\ %
S -
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Sheep in New England.
“Uralcha”: Two recent M.O.L. pars,
may be quoted to show the position of
sheepbreeders in New England. In B.
15/1/’36 was an article with the sensible
exhortation to breed sheep that pay.
while to quote from B. 8/1/’36: “Any
propaganda that is needed i 5.... to en-
courage growers to produce more fine
wools.”
A few years ago buyers were paying
fancy prices for the short, superfine
clothing-type wools which New Eng-
land grows to perfection. To-day the
demand is for a shafty warp type —with
quality for preference—but length of
staple is the foremost consideration.
The present fashion has settled the
breeding of fine-woolled sheep in New
England. The Tableland sheep is a
small animal compared with his relative
of the plains, and he cuts a weight of
wool to correspond. It is common for
three-months-old lambs in the west to
cut more wool than New England hoggets.
As for grown sheep, the lowlander will
cut 91b. to 121 b. of wool to the Table-
land sheep’s 51b. to 71b.
It follows that, if the buyer will not
pay as much for 61b. of New England
wool as for 111 b. of shafty 64’s, the
Northerner is unwise to persevere with
delicate ewes and lambs in a country
where winters are severe and every pest
and disease known to sheep abound.
Actual figures over the past three years
demonstrate that the man who still con-
tinues to breed is either an optimist as
regards the future of fine wools or a
sentimentalist with plenty of capital
behind him.
The money-spinner of to-day is the big-
framed, strong-constitutioned, plains-
bred wether. In New England his fleece
fines up and takes on the local charac-
ters —softness, handle, color and tip—
and, although in time he does not cut
the weight of wool he did at home, he
still cuts more than the local product.
The following statistics are taken from
the recent sale of a well-known New
England clip which included station-
bred sheep and bought wethers, and the
figures convey more weight than a
column of words:
Top Average Average Return
Price Price Cut per
per lb. per lb. per Head. Sheep.
Station ewes 25d. 19d. s|lb. 8/8|
„ hoggets 21d. 18d. 41b. 6/-
Bought
wethers.. 23d. 19d. 101 b. 15/10'
The wethers carried 13 months’ wool,
but, even allowing for that, the figures
are significant. The mortality among
station sheep, especially the younger
sheep, was very high during the last
severe winter, whereas the imported
wethers stood up to it with practically
negligible loss.
Experimental Rugging.
“Winfield”: Mr. Austin, on his Bogga-
bri (N.S.W.) property Therribri, is doing
something to test the value of large-scale
rugging with 5000 merino hoggets.
The top of a wheat-bag is left un-
sewn, and one seam is opened. In the
bottom, a hole is made large enough
for the head to pass through, and behind
the front legs a belly-band is made of
string. The rug must not cover the tail
or crutch. From the bottom rear corners
of the sides a string passes round each
hind leg.
The rugs cost about Is. each.
The staple under the rug on all those
that I inspected was in good, clean con-
dition, despite the three months’ dry
and dusty weather since shearing.
The sheep need more attention than
when running free, although two men
attend 2500 each. Not infrequently one
becomes entangled in its rug or loses the
thing altogether. And with the river low
a few get bogged and have to be relieved
of the covering.
So far, the sheep have retained their
condition. But will they continue to do
so in full wool if times remain bad?
That remains to be seen.
Further, there is a risk that when
the rains come and the flies get busy
the moist heat under the sodden rug
will attract them. Every sheep would
have to be unrugged for inspection at
least twice a week.
But graziers owe their thanks to Mr.
Austin—every experiment counts.
Black Sheep.
“B-gar”: The Suffolk Sheep Society
(Eng.) would hardly be pleased to read
“K.Mc.’s” statement (B. 8/1 /’36) that by
crossing black-headed Persians with
Suffolks wholly black sheep would result.
The Suffolk, with its pink skin, except
for that on the head and legs, where
black wool exists, is no more likely to
do as “K.Mc.” suggests than would
Hampshires, Shropshires, Oxford Downs
or any other breeds that have brown or
black heads and legs.
The only wholly pure-bred black sheep
I know of that breed true to type and
color are the black Welsh mountain
breed. The skin of the B.W.M. is blue,
the wool black, short in staple, fairly
dense and free from kemp.
Said to have been evolved a century
or two ago, the breed has spread to many
counties in Britain, and it is almost on
a par as a mutton-producer with the
ordinary white-woolled Welsh mountain
sheep. Prolific breeders, of hardy con-
stitution and true-blue in type, these
sheep might prove worth while in dis-
tricts where trefoil dermatitis is a
worry.
Attempts made to breed black sheep
in Australia have been unsuccessful.
Those graziers who invested in wholly
black ewes and rams soon gave them up,
a big percentage of first-drops being
whites or piebalds.
Fat-lamb growers anxious to breed
sheep whose pigmented skins definitely
give them immunity against the dietetic
disorders contracted by pink-skinned
sheep from grazing on trefoil, some
species of clovers and other plants might
do worse than get in touch with the
Welsh Agricultural Society.
Wheat-poisoning in Horses.
“Lion”: When horses eat too much
wheat the gastric juices combine with it
to make a fairly powerful poison. Ex-
periments have proved that this poison
is greatly weakened in its effects by
allowing the animal as much water as
it can drink.
Many still believe the old theory that
water hastens death by swelling the
wheat. This has been exploded. In
reality, it washes much of the wheat out
of the stomach (which is the real danger-
spot) and into the water-gut (caecum).
This gives relief immediately, lessens
the tension on the stomach walls, and
dilutes the poison. Incidentally, the
wheat is quickly swelled by the gastric
juices in cases where the water is with-
held, and the poison works faster.
Don’t give severe purgatives in any
form. Mix |lb. of Epsom salt with foz.
of powdered ginger, and dissolve in a
quart or less of water. Give as a drench.
Enemas of warm soapy water should
be freely given, and the horse kept yarded
in the shade. It may be necessary to lead
the horse to his usual drinking-place, but
avoid undue exertion, and don’t work
him in any circumstances for at least
a week after the trouble. If .complica-
tions set in, such as laminitis, the period
should be much longer.
Where the horse is obviously in great
pain—and his behavior soon shows you—
dose with 2oz. of chloral hydrate in
20 fl. oz. of warm water in which 4oz. of
sugar has been dissolved. Be careful
with c.h. —an overdose is poison to
animals and humans.
At all times carefully watch for signs
of laminitis. If much wheat has been
taken, it is safest to stand the horse in
cold water for long periods.
Laminitis may appear in five hours, or
it might take three days ; it often does
not come at all, especially if the horse
has been caught in the act and treated
at once. It all depends on the extent of
the trouble and the stamina of the horse.
The “Ninety-mile Desert.”
“Bogaduck”: The remarks of Dr.
Callaghan, quoted by “S.T.S.” (B.
25/12/’35), need qualifying. The possi-
bilities of development in the area lying
along the Adelaide-Melbourne line in
S.A. are remarkable—in places. It isn’t
all mallee country, and the portions now
covered with mallee will be better left
as they are until prices for produce
improve. Under existing conditions, it
would not pay to clear this class of mallee
country.
There are other big tracts, however,
which at present carry pink-gum scrubs
and open heaths of yacca, banksia and
other low bush growth. This type of
country is reasonably easy to clear and
lay down to pasture, and the venture has
been proved profitable under good man-
agement. But besides the “liberal use
of super.” mentioned as indispensable,
liberal expenditure of hard cash is also
required. It is not “poor man’s country.”
A sad feature of the present policy
of turning useless scrub and heath into
pasture land with the aid of super, is
the money and energy being wasted on
unsuitable land. Some areas have grown
crops which win State championships;
other areas will grow a rich sward of
pasture with the aid of super. These
facts receive publicity which leads
people to imagine that a success can be
made of the whole of it.
One horrible example can be seen near
Tatiara, to the south of the area recently
inspected by Dr. Callaghan. The Tatiara
is one of the most fertile districts in
S.A. —in parts. A man who bought a
big tract of mallee there began to top-
dress and sow pasture. He used £5OO
worth of super, during his first year
there.
The result was that he made the mallee
grow with unparalleled luxuriance and
walked off the property penniless.
I have lived for years close to the area
along the railway. I agree that the term
“desert” is a libel. But before any
stranger buys land in it I advise a visit
to the S.A. Agricultural Department.
R.A.S. Wheat Contests.
“Nabawa”: “What part have the
annual crop competitions played in wheat-
production and cultural methods?” be-
gins a screed issued to the press by
N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society. The
compilers answer the question by relat-
ing progress made since the competitions
began in 1915, reviewing the past sea-
son’s contest and referring to co-opera-
tion of country agricultural societies and
the Department of Agriculture.
It is time the R.A.S. and the depart-
ment asked, themselves whether or not
the competitions in their present form
have served their purpose. Pertinency
is lent to the question by the fact that
annually the contests must cost the
R.A.S. about £5OO, which might be
turned to better use.
Twenty years ago the first competition
resulted in about six entries throughout
the State. To-day there are five divi-
sional championships, about 70 growers
taking part. The 70 are the winners of
local competitions, and represent roughly
about 700 growers. The State owes the
R.A.S. a great debt, for in the 20 years
the State average has been raised by at
least five bushels an acre as a direct result.
Briefly, the objects of the competitions
were to (a) teach by example best cul-
tural methods for different districts, ( b )
popularise new and proved varieties, and
(c) permit farmers to make close con-
tact with agricultural instructors, who
acted as local judges, and the chief
instructor (H. E. Stening), who acts as
championship judge. The first two ob-
jects have been achieved to a point be-
yond which it now appears impracticable
to go, and the third aim is defeated
because of the number of farmers taking
part.
One may now travel from one end of
the wheatbelt to the other and find every
grower following the approved cultural
methods. This has been brought about
to a small degree by the contact made
with instructors, and to a large degree
by the publication of the workings used
by every competitor. Every grower to-
day knows the varieties best suited to
his land. With upwards of 100 crops to
judge in his district between haymaking
and stripping, the average district instruc-
tor has little or no time to talk to any-
body ; the championship judge, with five
huge districts to get over after the dis-
trict men have finished their judging, has
still less time. This year he found a
number of competing crops already
stripped.
It is obvious that, except for the test-
ing of further new varieties, the com-
petitions need revision if the business is
not to degenerate into a pot-hunting affair.
Control of erosion, fat-lamb- and pig-
production and reduced cost of produc-
tion are three factors entering strongly
into wheatgrowing to-day. These might
be remembered in any scheme of
revision.
Victorian Potato Standards.
A conference of trade and farming
interests has agreed to new potato stand-
ards in Victoria. Formerly weight was
the basis; now it is to be measurement,
with weight as an alternative.
A No. 1 potato now must have' a
mature skin and be not less in diameter
than 2|in. Or it may be not less than
3oz. in weight. In No. 2 grade, not less
than 90 p.c. in a package must be 2in.
or over in diameter, and the rest not less
than lfin. in diameter.
Seed potatoes are on a minimum of
lnter-State export will be confined
to No. 1 grade and to “new” potatoes,
which come within the definition as such
for export purposes only from Novem-
ber to January, though they remain
“new” a month longer when sold locally.
The Tomato Mite.
“Z.T.”: Tomato mite is becoming a
serious nuisance in several parts of Aus-
tralia. It was first discovered here in
1917 in Queensland. Twelve years later
it turned up in Sydney suburban glass-
houses. Since then it has done damage
in all the commercial tomato districts
of N.S.W.
The smallness of the animal makes him
hard to notice in his early stages. He
(Continued on page 24.)


7
%
s
w
►
z-
-1
3S; - =
?r-
-?- — v
mw
OTjgpP^
ULpTTcTe
A NATIONAL
WIRELESS
O RGAN ISATION
Year by year the
latest wireless communication facilities
have been made available to the public
by A.W.A.
The Company established and to-day
operates the Beam Wireless Telegraph
Service, Trans-Ocean Wireless Tele-
phone, and the Beam Picturegram Ser-
vice between Australia and overseas.
A.W.A. also operates the Australian
Coastal Radio Service and the Pacific
Island Services in New Guinea, Papua
and Fiji.
For more than 22 years wireless services
have been conducted on ships at sea for
the safety of life and for the interchange
of public wireless telegrams between
ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the
all-important factors that have resulted
in giving the public satisfactory com-
munication services. To this end every
new phase of wireless has been scientifi-
cally investigated and developed.
V?
The Company invites
enquiries in respect
to any of its services.
An illustrated booklet,
setting out the Com-
pany’s activities and
services will be sent
post free on applica-
tion to the Company’s
Offices at 47 York
Street, Sydney, and
167-9 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
LL
AMALGAMATED Wirpi ESSIA'SIA) ltd
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


BOLDNESS
IN DESIGN ...
has a definite appeal to
most men, especially
when this boldness is
linked with strength and
long life. That is why this
broad-toed Abbey Model
has become so popular.
Its tough upper and stout
single sole, featuring a
wide welt, are made to
give a lasting satisfaction
to its wearer.
, Write for a Catalogue.
e
An Abbey Model made in two stout high-
grade leathers: Black Box Calf and Tan
Willow Calf. Stocked in full and half
sizes.
Price: Black, 27/6; Brown, 27/6.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WA 14.
Cheapest and most
efficient form of
Roofing l
HH77I
m
Specify "26, gauge f “Red Orb” for your
roof,* especially rigid, first class, gal-
vanized, corrugated iron manufactured
at Lysaght’s Newcastle Works, New
South Wales.)
LYSAOHTIS CALVRNIZEII IRON
JOHNiLYSAGHT (AUST.) LTD.
Sydney — r Melbourne— Brisbane Adelaide Fremantle
L 1.126
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
T^e'^-alldz^L
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
is a yellow midget, and there are some-
times hundreds of him to the square
inch, feeding vicariously on stems, fruit
and leaves. Usually the banquet begins
when the first trusses of fruit are full-
size. Leaves suddenly have a silvery
look, the lower ones drooping and curl-
ing up. Stems lose their hairs. Presently
the underside of leaves and the stalks
change in color to a dirty brown before
withering off. Fruit skins grow hard and
rough.
The time of trouble in crops in the
open is from now onward till May,
though in some districts late spring is
the season, as it is with tomatoes under
glass.
Don’t wait for symptoms. Make mite
drill a part of the regular crop routine.
When the crop shows signs of ripening
spray with 1-in-100 lime-sulphur mix-
ture, and repeat a month later. If Bor-
deaux is being used, a dusting with equal
parts of hydrated lime and flowers of
sulphur or a spray of lib. sulphur to
12 gallons water is best. The last can
be applied with the Bordeaux. In glass-
houses sulphur-dusting every three weeks
after the first flowers show up is the
standard treatment.
Swedes and Mangel-wurzels.
“Hortus”: These crops are the greatest
asset an English farmer has as winter
fodder. No farmer, however small,
would be without one of them. The
roots are nearly always “pitted” in long,
pyramidal pits, dug on a well-drained
site.
They are taken as required, machine-
chopped and mixed with chaff from grass
hay and either wheaten or oaten hay
combined. The juicy sweetness of the
root tends to make the dry chaff more
palatable. In winter the roots are
chopped into halves, thrown on to a
dray and dropped here and there in the
fields.
Many criticisms have been levelled
against these crops. Too much labor
in handling seems to be the main out-
cry. If pits are dug in the cultivation
paddock the work is minimised. In
N.S.W. tableland districts, where the
climate resembles that of the Old Coun-
try, these crops can be grown with com-
parative ease. Suitable soils are those
which contain a fair percentage of sand.
A good supply of moisture is the main
point to consider.
Now is the time to prepare the land.
Plough deeply, and replough lightly just
prior to sowing. February and March
sowings will produce the best results, but
some farmers in the northern tablelands
stick to January. It all depends on the
normal weather of the district.
The plants do not thrive in too hot
a climate. Heat slackens the growth and
invites aphis. Once the latter are in
charge you may as well plough the crop
under. The roots will be needed in
winter and early spring, especially for
ewes approaching lambing or with lambs
at foot. So it is best to go in for an
autumn sowing in this case.
About 21b. of seed is needed to the
acre. Sow in drills 2ift. apart. Super.
(|cwt. to lcwt. per acre) always gives the
crop an increased yield. As soon as
young plants are about 2in. high thin
out to about 15in. apart in the drills. Keep
the soil between drills well loosened and
free from weed-growth. Don’t forget
you must keep as much moisture in the
ground as possible. When leaves turn
color the crop is ready to harvest.
Soil Erosion.
“Pick”: After a strip of seaside brush
had been grubbed in clearing a road
along Wintle’s beach (N.S.W.), tongues
of sand stretched inland for hundreds of
yards. Their inrush was eventually
stayed with a plantation of marram
grass.
When Billilingra station (N.S.W.) was
denuded of herbage by rabbits and the
surface scratched loose for grass-roots,
the whole area started to drift before the
westerlies. The moving sands levelled
gullies, dammed water-courses, covered
houses, trees and the railway line. With
the extermination of the cottontails and
planting of artificial grasses, the moving
desert settled back to its former
quiescence and fertility.
Indirectly, Melbourne and suburbs
(Vic.) are responsible for serious trouble
in the mallee country. Mallee root is a
favorite household fuel, and thousands
of tons pour into the city. Extensive
grubbing in the mallee scrubs is followed
by wind erosion over wide areas.
Skeleton-weed Control.
“Doitnow”: Holdings become infested
so quickly that missing one plant this
year—so easy to do—results in hundreds
next.
In the early stages s.w. resembles a
dandelion in its method of growth and
appearance. Soon this stage passes, and
the plant grows up to from 18in. to
54in. —possibly more on rich country.
Around the base of the stem are many
darkish-colored hairs, and there is an
absence of all leaves. It becomes a “skele-
ton” of a plant, having roots anything up
to five or more feet long, rather resem-
bling those of dock, though thinner.
It is a perennial. Its flowers are single
and are yellow. The seeds have a “para-
chute” attached to them by a long stem.
Thus wind blows them anywhere.
S.w. grows on all classes of country.
We have found it on almost bare hill-
tops with a 32in. growth. It also grows
after stinkwort, which is unusual.
We have found the following eradi-
cation methods good, although our plants
were discovered before they had a
great hold.
The plant is pulled up by hand (both
hands are used) with a straight-up haul.
Much root comes with the plant. It is
lacerated and “bleeds” well. (Better use
gloves, as the “blood” covers the hands
and turns brown. It is apt to make them
sore, although does not poison, as far
as I know.)
Naturally, pulling is best done before
seeding. Plants can be pulled up after
seeding, and will die, but naturally much
trouble is left behind.
Pulling cleared the grass land we oper-
ated on.
Where hoed out, plants grew again.
Others have found the same.
We have had success with many other
types of weed, perennials included, by
continuous mowing, thus never letting
plants seed.
Anything that stops s.w. from seeding
is good, and should be done. Follow
this up with top-dressing, and pasture
improvement with sub. clover or lucerne.
Weakening and suffocation seem to be
eventually cheaper than spraying with
dangerous sprays like sodium chlorate.
Overstocking will help, but beware of
the stem bottoms near the ground, where
flowering may take place.
“Ghanam”: There is a lot of research
work to be done on so-called noxious
weeds. At certain stages and under cer-
tain conditions sheepgrowers have found
skeleton weed far from a pest'. An ex-
periment at Albury (N.S.W.) suggests
that the same may be said of St. John’s
wort. At least in process of destruction
use may be made of it. The wool-
and-sheep instructor has been at work
on a 319-acre farm strongly infested with
the weed on which he put Romney-cross
ewes with Suffolk rams —which gave their
offspring black points. Lambs bred on
this country brought 20s. Id. in the Syd-
ney market, and Mr. Daley says he is
satisfied that, where Suffolk rams are
used on dark-muzzled breeds and initial
breeding is followed by the right type of
pasture improvement, wort can be dealt
with.
“J.W.”: Figures issued by the Com-
merce Minister show that butter export
to Britain has increased by nearly 100
p.c. in five years and is now over 100,000
tons a year. A lot of the butter sent
away is still below standard. Although
there has been an 11 p.c. improvement
in the quantity of choice exported for
the six months ended December 31 as
against the whole of 1934-35, choice lines
comprise only 60 p.c. of the total. The
aim should be to add to quality rather
than to quantity in export for the next
few years. An expanding price would
make the quickly growing market safer
and more profitable for the farmer.


THE
NEW-
MODEL
LC Smith
TYPEWRITER
Silence- Without Sacrifice
Combines beautiful work and versatility, and provides points of superiority no
other typewriter can offer.
Two things are necessary for the perfect typewriter—Ease of Operation and
Convenience of Operation, both of which the L. C. SMITH provides. Its Ease
of Operation is due to its light touch and easy action, possible only by its
entire BALL-BEARING construction.
No other typewriter can approach its operating conveniences—lnterchangeable
Platens, Type Segment Shift, Choice of Carriage Returns, Half Spacing, etc.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.
“Stanton House,’’ 131 Pitt St
“Penfold House,’’ Cr. Queen and Lit. Collins Sts.,
“Widows’ Fund Buildings,” 40 Grenfell St..
.. Sydney
Melbourne.
, Adelaide.
Macdougalls (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., 299 Queen St., Brisbane. H. Hardman, 35 Barrack St., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
The Real Thing.
Cyrus Guggenhummer, the famous war
correspondent of the Chicago “Trom-
bone,” was peeved. He had reason to
be. He’d been in Abyssinia a fortnight
and was still looking for copy.
Outside the palace gates at Blabbis
Adabba Cyrus snorted when he read:
Haille Silassie, the Joe Lyons of Judah,
no more talk on war under 40 what you
call the dollar a minute. Terms most
strictly the cash beforehand.
Cyrus headed in another direction de-
termined to beard the terrible Dinnakill
tribe in their mountain fastness. He had
heard fearsome tales about these black
demons who never paid their bills or
washed behind their ears.
They kicked him down the side of the
mountain for butting in on their annual
“Be Kind to Mother-in-Law Week.”
When news came through of a great
victory at Jigitty Jigjig, Cyrus was off like
a shot, only to find that old Ras Berry
and his merry warriors had come through
with flying colors in one of the biggest
beer wars known to Abyssinia.
His next rush was to the Hoorah front,
where an awful struggle was reported to
be raging. This was true enough, but
the awful struggle was between the
Housewives’ Association and the Hoorah
potato merchants.
It was not until three months later
that Cyrus, with a whoop of joy, ran
into the real thing.
Machine-gun bullets sang their song
of death about his ears, the groans of
the dying filled the air, dead bodies lit-
tered the ground, curses and the shrieks
of women and children came through the
hanging curtain of smoke that enveloped
him.
Cyrus was back home in Chicago!
D. McM.
T
“The only thing to do with a servant who
lingers in bed in the morning, says a woman’s
paper, is to discharge her.”
Make her sit up and take notice.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A schoolmaster says that the cane is not
necessary in the case of smart children.”*
Yes, but can he make ’em smart with-
out it?
4* 4* 4*
Interlude.
I tarried before the freshly-painted
white fence. “Wet paint” was chalked
on the pavement every few feet along
the entire length of it, but I doubted
the truth of the message.
For years I have taken “wet paint”
signs with a grain of salt; invariably
I pause before them, hesitate, glance
furtively about me and then dab my
fingers on the paint to ascertain if it is
really wet. On this occasion, however,
I was determined to conquer my weak-
ness ; to face Temptation and pass on
victorious and dry-fingered.
With strength like steel I resisted the
impulse, when suddenly the yelping field
for the Scooter Derby swept round the
corner. One urchin, sneaking through on
the rails as the bunch swung wide,
crashed into me and sprawled me bodily
against the fence.
When dust, cries and curses subsided
I noticed that my new navy-blue suit was
decorated with broad white stripes!
P. C.
Lilywhite.
“It is encouraging to know that, in spite
of gilded offers, the world’s leading players in
many sports are prepared to make every sacri-
fice to uphold amateurism.” —Cabled statement.
Exactly my feeling. I feel eternally
grateful to my old dad, who saw the
wisdom of apprenticing me to an
amateur so that I could learn the busi-
ness.
Fourflush was an all-round sport.
Shortly after I joined him he rode a
horse in a race, and came away from
the meeting full of money.
“You must’ve been well paid,” I sug-
gested as he tossed me a fiver.
“Paid? My dear Aitchem!” he ex-
claimed, shocked. “I am an amateur,
pure and simple ; and a mere riding fee
and percentages would’ve been no good
to me, anyhow. No, lad ; I was laid
£250 to nothing.”
Then he asked me what I intended to
do that evening. I said I thought I’d
have a game of billiards with Pottem.
“Lad! Lad! ” cried Fourflush reproach-
fully. “Pottem is a professional. Apart
from tarnishing your amateur status he
can beat you. You can play fairly well;
challenge Mugge, and take his two quid
to one that he can beat you.”
I followed his advice. My fiver became
a tenner. Thus did I gain the first les-
sons in my calling. When my fame as
“Give us a kick, son."
“All right, mister. Turn round!"
a tiddlywinks player brought me an
offer of a job as demonstrator from the
sporting warehouse of Clippe, Hoppe and
Kitty I showed my resentment. “Give
me an engagement at a thousand a year
as a traveller, with no work to do, and
I’ll spend my spare time —all my time
will be spare—showing the youngsters
in the schools how to play the game.
Purely for the love of it, you under-
stand. But they’ll buy your goods; and,
of course, I’ll get a rake-off in commis-
sion.”
They saw the point; and here you see
me to-day, a stalwart supporter of
amateurism. Once allow the professional
idea to be accepted and men like myself,
instead of being able to live at ease,
would have to struggle against all sorts
of competition. As it is, life is pleasant.
Here comes poor old Straitlace! Poor
old chap hasn’t got a cracker —I’ll have
to shout him a spot. It’s the enthusiasm
of chaps like him who help us to main-
tain amateurism as it is. He’s devoted his
whole life to ludo, and grown poor on it.
Eh? Oh, yes! I see what you mean.
But then the poor coot’s only an amateur
amateur. m.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Why Work?
The lottery no longer has attractions
for me. Backing horses and bridge for
money leave me cold. I have found a
much simpler and much easier way of
getting rich quickly. I hire the most ex-
pensive taxi I can find, then tell the
driver that I must travel backwards or
it makes me sick. He has to put his
taxi in reverse. It’s a wonderful thrill
to see the meter spinning round back-
wards, and the driver owing me more
money each quarter-mile.
At least, it will be. I haven’t tried it
yet —haven’t got twopence to telephone
a taxi.
S. Esq.
Running Down a Machine.
I read the other day where a doctor
described the human body as “a perfect
machine.” A couple of seconds later I
made a liar of him. I was scanning the
paper at breakfast and, there being only
a squat, dumpy little jug on the table, I
was compelled to fold it up (the paper,
not the jug) and put it on my knees
while I decapitated my egg. It slid off
on to the floor at least six times during
the meal. Now, had the human machine
been as perfect as that medico boasted,
my lap would have been quite level.
I have exactly the same trouble in
restaurants with highly-starched serviettes
(and, of course, at home when we have
visitors). lam convinced the human
chassis is sadly out of plumb.
Here’s another instance of the imper-
fection of the human machine (male type
only). A woman can cross her legs in a
tram, twining one around the other two
or three times and then hooking the toe
of one shoe on to the other shin. But
take a man. He throws one leg over
the other and his boot sticks out about
a yard ; and he has to uncross ’em every
time someone gets in or out.
Then take hands. Nature has given
man no lead as to what to do with his
hands when conversing. If he puts them
behind him he looks like a suspicious
cop ; in front of him they make him
look a coot; dangling by his side they give
him the appearance of a mug from the
mulga ; if he parks them on his hips he’ll
probably be booked for obstructing
pedestrian traffic. Of course he can put
them in his pockets, but that’s nothing
to Nature’s credit. / buy a paper. But
it just demonstrates what a poor thing
this machine is.
Again, look at the utter helplessness
of the human machine when it gets a
flea between its shoulder-blades, or an
itching in the instep when walking with
boots on. Moreover, a good machine
doesn’t peel when left out in the sun.
And talking of limited adaptability,
have you ever seen an alderman trying
to pull on his socks? The perfect
machine? Tch!
S. W. K.
4* 4* 4*
“At first glance his hair would have frightened
most people.” —Magazine story.
A shock of hair?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My husband promised to get me the wool,
but he brought home the wrong yarn.”
That, alas! is what so many husbands
do!
Censure.
/ hate the way you crane your neck
To strange and stupid angles;
The way your skimpy arms you deck
With ultra-modern bangles.
Your body-poses I detest —
They’re utterly disgusting—
’Twould seem into your back, your chest,
An unseen force was thrusting.
You may be of the Mode’s elect,
But it’s both rude and rummy,
I think, the stance that you affect
To emphasise your tummy.
I loathe your wax-like out-stretched hand.
Your frozen smirk or snigger.
/ shun the window where you stand —
A modernist dress-figure!
P.O.M.C.
My Barber Discusses the Grand
Passion.
“Damitall! What are you trying to
do?” exploded the customer in the next
chair, drawing all eyes in his direction.
Claude, the lather-boy, blushed and
stammered, but was unable to offer a
coherent explanation for lathering the
top of his victim’s head instead of his
face.
My barber left me for a moment and
vigorously towelled the insulted head,
addressed a few well-chosen words to
Claude, apologised to the customer, and
returned to me.
“Young fool!” he commented as he
resumed operations on my chin. “In
love, that’s what’s wrong with him.”
I glanced—or rather, squinted—in the
direction of Claude, a pimply-faced, pop-
eyed youth. The accusation didn’t seem
quite fair, but my barber was sure of
his facts.
“Yes, that’s his trouble. Little fat
sheilah in the lunch-shop. I seen him
talking to her yestiddy. He’s in love, all
right.”
“It gets some blokes that way,” he
went on. “/ know. I’ve seen ’em. There
was a chap I worked with onct, an’ when
he used t’ fall for a girl he just couldn’t
get her out of his head. Be thinkin’ of
her all day, he would.
“If he was shavin’ a gent., he’d sud-
denly git an urge to nick his girl’s
initial on him. Pretty awkward, it was,
sir. Wasn’t so bad when the girl’s name
was Ivy—a straight slash, perpendicular-
like, and there it was ; an’ even when it
was Vera he could manage a V-shaped
nick without causing any suspicion. But
when he fell for an Ethel or a Queenie
the customers wouldn’t stand for it, an’
he used t’ get the sack.
“I’ve always looked on him as a sort
of martyr to love, if you know what I
mean, sir. Like that bloke that useter
swim the channel to see Helen of Troy
and got drowned in a butt of mulberry-
wine.
“Still, it’s no use wastin’ sympathy on
’em, is it, sir? Love’s love and business
is business, I alius say, an’ y’ can’t mix
’em, except, of course, in the pictures—
and even then it ain’t always a success,
I hear.
“Now, when I was courtin’ the missus
there was no dashin’ away at closin’-time
just ’cos I had to meet her at the corner.
No, sir, if I was shavin’ a customer, an’
two more waitin’, well, she had to wait
till I’d finished. Oh, sorry sir!” This
last as the razor bit deep into my left
cheek.
A styptic pencil and expert attention
followed. Also apologies, profuse and
prolonged, which lasted until he was see-
ing me off the premises. The subject of
love was pushed into the background.
On the way out I glanced in the
mirror. A thin red streak on my cheek-
bone bore witness to his slip. Apologies
were renewed, but I cut them short.
“By the way, what’s your wife’s
name?”
“My wife? Why, sir! Isobel, sir.
What”
I walked out, feeling very thankful it
wasn’t Bertha.
JASBY.
Jubilation.
‘‘l have won her ! We’re married !” he
cried with delight.
“Till death do us part she is mine—
she is mine!
My aim is achieved! Oh, I’m feeling
to-night
As though l were filled with ambrosial
wine !
And no wonder the thought that I’m wed
makes a throb
Of glorious ecstasy shoot through my
soul,
For it means that I’m tied to a girl with
a job
And at last I’ll be able to go off the
dole !”
NAT.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji:-
ISLAND HERITACE
BY ALISON SMITH
0 HCLQJiSir RATTOEID IB^T
CD . CK CH (EM CD
[AUTHOR'S NOTE. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter I X—{Continued).
THERE they all were in the long, brightly-lit
dining-room—a rather remarkable family
group, even for the Islands. On Laurence,
in spotless white at the head of his table, the
years sat lightly; he was in his most genial
mood, because at the moment he felt curiously
certain that all his soaring dreams were nearing
fulfilment. He saw the future unrolling proudly,
with Roddy—and Roddy’s son after him —carry-
ing on the rich estate, making a name and a
tradition in the young country. His daughters, too —
Ruve, who seemed little more than a stranger for
whom he was responsible ; his darling Vivien —he saw
them marrying into rich Island families, queening it
in their turn over estates equal in dignity to Ruvia.
His satisfied gaze dwelt on them all: his son ; his
daughters ; dark Elena, his wife ; Batila, her mother.
An agreeable woman, Batila ; shrewd, quick at English
and European ways —her table manners were indeed
superior to his own —a very sensible, decorously
conducted woman, he thought patronisingly. One
didn’t altogether class her as a native ; she was just
Elena’s mother —fine old Woodley’s widow. Looking
at her as she bent forward to listen to something her
daughter said, he had not the faintest glimmering
that there in the very heart of his house sat securely
the alien power that threatened all his hopes.
Young Lola Bennett was there, too —a gay,
saucy girl, she sat dimpling between Dick and Denny,
her dark eyes considering Rod.
“Tomasi tells me you had a good run up from
Levuka, Rod,” said his father. “What do you think
of the Islands now you are back again? You’ll see
a great difference here, I’ll be bound. I’ll take you
round the place to-morrow. We’ll ride out early.”
Elena said silkily:
“I’m afraid Roddy will find island life dull, Jim.
Ruvia’s rather quiet for a young man like Roddy.”
Her eyes held subtle mockery.
“Stuff and nonsense! ” said Laurence testily. “The
boy’s not a young girl to be thinking of amusement.
Ruvia’s a big proposition—a life job ; and it’s none
too soon for Rod to think about settling down to it.”
“Oh, if he married, of course” said Elena.
Her dark eyes considered Rod, and then deli-
berately went to Lola, lingered on her.
Laurence saw the look.
“You women —your minds always run on mar-
riage,” he said, irritated. “Roddy will have enough
to think about with Ruvia for the present. I’ve been
looking forward to this time since you were a little
lad, Rod.”
Rod looked at him in some apprehension, and
then at the suave, watchful Elena. The eyes of the
black crone, her mother, swept him with comprehen-
sion. A warning instinct told him that they were both
his enemies ; but his reason jeered at that —he hadn’t
an enemy in the world. A moment of tension held
the bright, homelike room so that he saw fixed
in that tiny space all the jarring elements. He
shrugged it off; he hated having people become so
serious and inimical about him and his future—as
if it mattered a rap to anyone but himself. However,
let the thing slide for the present. He turned the
conversation with his accustomed ease, and soon had
them all laughing at some droll escapade of his in
Auckland.
Out betimes with the old man in the morning,
Rod found he couldn’t sidestep the issue. Found,
indeed, his assent was taken for granted—even the
coolies seemed to think he was there to stay.
Enthusiastically the old man —more like a young man
in his headlong leadership—took Rod over copra-
shed and stores, showed eagerly the new running
vatas, whirled him up to the lines, and then, when
the young man would not have been averse to a
little relaxation —the day was brilliant, burning, wind-
less —nothing would serve but they must ride round
the infernal place. Rod, sick of the name, the sight,
the smell of copra, smiled wanly and hoped his father
would not forthwith produce a buckjumper and expect
him to master it with ease and assurance before a
crowd of admiring labor. They set out.
Dismounting in the late, bright afternoon, he saw
Ruve and Batila standing together at the door of the
fine high bure —there were four of them in that big
compound—in which the old woman took up her
residence when she stayed at Ruvia. The fair girl was
laughing at something she had said ; she had a witty
tongue, old Batila. There, in the glowing and golden
afternoons, she kept a sort of Court' —a Court of
women. Elena would sit Island-fashion on the plaited
mats or recline indolently against piled
cushions. One or two of the Valoa women
who had accompanied Batila from her home
would be there ; sometimes a favored Indian
woman —the sirdar’s wife or another who
spoke Fijian fluently. A council of women and
their murmuring voices.
Ruve, smiling, came over to meet Rod.
“Did you enjoy your ride?” she asked lightly.
“You must have gone right round the island.”
“We did,” said Rod grimly ; “and if it wasn’t so
close, to sunset we’d be. saddling fresh horses now
and going right through and up and down every
hill.”
She laughed.
“Father is keen on the place. But he has been
counting the days, Rod, till you came. You’ll have
to stay with us now. Batila says you will.”
“Hang Batila! What’s she got to do with it?”
“What’s come over you? You’re not usually so
irritable.”
“I can’t make up my mind, that’s all. Seriously,
Ruve, I hate hurting the old man, but I never intended
becoming a planter. This life isn’t what I want.
Good God, no! A holiday’s all right; but I never
contemplated burying myself here. There’s a damn-
able, restless streak in me —I don’t want to be tied
down yet. I want contact with other minds, bright
minds, just as you do, Ruve. You’re doing amaz-
ingly well here with your painting, Ruve, but you
want training, discipline—your gift’s worth it. I’ve
fooled around the studios myself, but I’ve only a
knack —I haven’t your talent. If I had, I’d paint
Batila, the hag! Plotting! Old and wicked —and a
fine, shrewd face to work on! She doesn’t like me —
never did. But if I could get her on canvas as I see
her I’d have painted a masterpiece, and she’d never
forgive me —the thoroughgoing old sinner! But, by
the Lord, I could put her in a novel —schemes and
all.”
Ruve laughed at him.
That was Roddy’s trouble. Most people did laugh
at him —eventually. He stimulated them, interested
them up to a point, and then they became indifferent,
refused, as it were, to take him seriously. He had to
exert himself feverishly sometimes to keep up their
interest; he’d take an immensity of trouble over
people for whom personally he didn’t care a rap one
way or the other. But he wanted everyone’s good-
will. He beat himself in vain against Elena’s hidden
dislike that had been born only of her jealousy
because he was the son and heir.
There was to be a wedding in Valoa. The bride
was Mrs. Bennett’s second daughter, Bessie. She was
marrying the overseer from Namaya, the island owned
by the Eliots. The wedding was to be solemnised in
the verandah of the Bennett home by the Wesleyan
minister, and afterwards —if Mrs. Bennett had any say
in the matter —there would be dancing. The
Laurences —with Denny to swell the party —were all
going over for the event. Ruvia was to be left in
Dick’s charge.
To Roddy, springing out on the well-remembered,
straggling white beach at the edge of which a crystal-
clear green tide lapped eternally, Ruvia seemed
unchanged since his last visit. Sometimes he thought
cynically it would never
change. When the Last Trum-
pet blew there would assuredly
be a dismayed scuttling into
cover of its potbellied, gossip-
ing ancients, a frantic scatter-
ing of the unvarying, yelping
mongrels and fierce-colored
squawking fowls.
Mrs. Bennett flew out to
meet them; kissed Elena and
the girls; tiptoed up to kiss
tall Roddy.
“Come in! Come in!”
she cried. “We’re all ex-
hausted : but the wedding
gown’s finished —to the last
stitch. It’s a triumph, though
I say it myself. Come in—
and admire it.”
Bessie was married that
night—the tall, buxom girl
with her soft brown eyes and her ready smiles.
Adela, who had “made the match,” was in the highest
spirits. “It’ll be your turn next,” she said to Ruve.
“One wedding makes another—l know.”
It was later that Roddy, the bride hanging
flushed on his arm after the finish of a dance, heard
new voices and looked idly across the heated room.
In that intense moment he saw only one, had eyes
for only one —Daphne Eliot, grown from a fairy child
to a girl of faerie.
She stood hesitant in the doorway—slim, exquisite
in misty white, her honey-gold hair coiled in smooth
plaits about her little head. The strong colors and
lights of the room flowed about her ; and, without
effort, she seemed to take from the other girls delicacy
and charm, so that they appeared to be somewhat
coarse and too exuberant. The glowing Vivien ; dark
Lola with the touch of wilderness in her eyes ; plump,
hearty Bessie, even the fair Ruve —all seemed to lose
grace beside this ethereal, gold-haired girl who con-
sidered them so gravely with grey, soft eyes. To
Roddy, the impressionable and ardent, who had never
forgotten the slender, milk-white child, she seemed
invested with a divine beauty: a goddess-girl—
Persephone, new from her fields of daffodil. That
was how the poet in him saw her. Then he had her
slim hand in his ; looked one long moment into the
enchanting eyes.
“Why—Roddy!” she said, pausing slightly before
she said his name. A smile fluttered her delicate
mouth. “You see, I haven’t forgotten you—or our
first and only meeting. Would you have known me
again?”
Would he have known her? Could he have ever
forgotten that haunting, ethereal loveliness? He
laughed softly, and pressed the little hand that still
lay in his.
“You are as I thought you would have been,”
he said. “Yes, I should have known you.”
“But we only came to wish Bessie happiness,”
she said in the soft, clear voice that accorded so fit-
tingly with her delicate perfection.
She moved lightly across to the strapping, hearty
girl, whose white array intensified her tropic coloring.
Roddy, watching them, thought again that Daphne
made the other women appear coarse and primitive.
She was like a star among flaring torches.
He became aware that Daphne’s father was stand-
ing beside him, eyeing him rather quizzically.
“Well, Roddy—home again?” he said lazily.
“Your father tells me it’s for good this time.”
Vexation stirred in Roddy at the casual words.
Must his father still seek to mould all their lives —
make them subservient to Ruvia which was his one
dominant passion?
“I’m not so sure of that,” he said non-commit-
tally. “For good’s a long time, sir.”
Daphne drifted back.
“Hullo, dad!” she cried, with the gaiety and
lightness of a child. “Roddy and I have been picking
up old threads. Do you remember how he found me
years ago when I ran away and scared you all so
dreadfully?”
A subtle change passed over the bland face of
her father, so that he seemed palpably to draw her
behind barriers.
“Why, yes,” he said. “I’ve not forgotten, Daphne.
But it’s late—and we didn’t come to stay. Say good-
bye, my dear, and come along. Good night, Roddy.”
They were gone ; and to Roddy it seemed that
the comeliness of• the other girls leapt out again in
strong relief against the tarnished, tawdry Bennett
background. Vivien circled by in the arms of tall
Denny ; she was laughing up at him, and the bright-
ness of her vivid face, her velvety dusk eyes and hair,
the flash of perfect teeth combined to give an impres-
sion of youth incarnate. She looked as if age could
never touch her. Lola Bennett paused beside him; he
felt soft fingers touch his arm.
“Roddy, you look unhappy. What’s troubling
you?” she smiled up at him.
He looked down into her dark face, flushed now
with dusky rose. Lola’s presence affected him
strangely. He was not in love with her, but she
attracted and faintly repelled him at one and the
same moment. The artist in him responded to her
undeniable loveliness ; but he was beginning lately to
suspect that Lola was trying to attract him —to draw
him closer. He didn’t want that, but women had
always found it easy to influence him. He hated
hurting the feelings of anyone—wanted to have every-
one he came in contact with like him.
“Are you dancing this one?” he said. “Have it
with me.”
She pouted.
“I’m sick of dancing . . . the lights . . . the heat.
No, Roddy—let’s sit out in the moonlight and tell
each other our troubles. Mine first —because there’s
so many of them.”
Out in the tropic moonlight, pervading and
glamorous, they sat down on a long canoe turned
upside-down on the grass. Here the music from the
THE STORY SO FAR.
The children of James Laurence,
trader and planter, of Ruvia, Fiji, are
a strange trio. Roddy, the eldest, though
almost white, has the blood of Laurence’s
former dark mistress. Ruve is the
daughter of the planter’s first wife, who
died when she was born. The third
child, Vivien, also has dark blood. Her
mother is Elena, a beautiful half-caste
girl, whom Laurence married when Ruve
was a small child.
Ruve lived with her Aunt Ellice in
Sydney for some years, but returned
home when she was 19. Dick Carew
is overseer on the plantation. He and
Ruve knew each other as children in
Sydney.
At the close of last week’s instalment
Roddy arrived . back in Ruvia after ,
completing his education in Auckland.


house was softened a little ; they saw the figures of
the dancers pass the lighted squares of windows. They
were almost in shadow ; he saw Lola as a figure all
in one dusk tone —shadowed hair and face, and the
dim green of her dancing frock blended with the dark,
drooping boughs. Here in the soft, veiling shadow,
with a lake of moonlight washing almost to their
feet, the curious attraction she had for him was in
the ascendant. She seemed quiet and rather wistful.
He had never liked her so well. .
“Are you going away again, Roddy?” she asked
suddenly and softly.
Roddy started.
“I’ve not decided,” he said. “My father wants
me to stay —to work in with him. You know what
Ruvia means to him. He’s wrapped up in it. I
shouldn’t like a place to get such a hold of me.”
“Ah! but it wouldn’t —with you,” the girl at
his side said swiftly. “You’re young. You could have
your trips away—your own yacht to run down to
Suva when you fancied it. You’re lucky to have such
prospects, I think, Roddy.”
“Prospects! ” said Roddy, slowly weighing the
word. “I don’t know, Lola. I don’t know whether
I’m the sort of fellow who could settle down to this
life. I want whatever I haven’t got —and can’t get.
I’ve fooled round in Auckland, I suppose: played about
with art, and the writing I’ve done —God knows if
it’s worth much. The old man can’t see any good in
it, and maybe he’s right. He should have had a
son like Dick.”
He did not know what moved him to these con-
fidences. He knew Lola didn’t remotely understand
what he was driving at. But her nearness, the gracious
figure she made —now shadowed, now dappled with
moonlight l —the appeal all pretty women had for
him, impelled him to them.
“Poor Roddy,” said Lola softly ; her small brown
hand fluttered out a riioment to lie on his. “You
don’t know what to do. Maybe, like me, you don’t
fit. Look at me! I feel there’s something wild in
me; it drives me to do the maddest things Oh,
they’ve talked me to bits —and I don’t care a scrap.
We can only live once, after all, Roddy ; and why
shouldn’t one have a good time? I want no more.”
She sprang to her feet in a lovely supple move-
ment and pirouetted on the grass—light as a drifting
moth.
“To live—and love,” she said. “What more does
any woman want —or man, either?”
She came closer to him —he, too, had risen—and
let her hands drop to his shoulders, brought her
piquant face close in the moonlight.
“Haven’t you kissed a girl before?” she mocked.
“Silly Roddy! What does a kiss mean, anyhow?
Nothing at all! Aren’t you going to kiss me?”
He laughed, and, stooping his tall head, kissed
not the curving, offered lips, but her smooth, olive
cheek.
“You’re a fascinating child, Lola,” he told her
lightly ; “but you mustn’t play so frankly at being
a siren.”
“You are a fool,” said Lola candidly. “That
wasn’t a proper kiss. Oh —come in and dance, you
stupid Roddy.”
Chapter X.
RODDY carried the image of a gold-haired, grey-
eyed girl back with him to Ruvia: she walked
with him the glowing island ; her soft gaze dwelt
in his beneath the arching, light-latticed trees. Since
he knew she loved Island life, Ruvia gained a new
allure ; he began to see it a
little as his father did. But
he didn’t see that he would
never be the man his father
was. He lacked the domi-
nating personality, the sheer
driving power and the
doggedness underlying the
surface geniality.
Elena watched him with
secretive, amused eyes.
“He’s smitten at last,”
she said to the old man. “I
didn’t think he had it in him,
your wonderful Roddy. With
that thin, pale girl Daphne
Eliot. But her people wouldn’t hear of it. They think
too much of themselves. They’d draw the line at
Rod’s dark blood.”
She shrank dismayed before the fury that con-
vulsed her husband’s face. He was like that some-
times ; he lost all dignity—all restraint. She had
seen his screaming rages, but they had never been
unleashed on her. He mastered himself, and spoke
quietly.
“Let that rest, Elena,” he said. “Even you can
go too far with me. D’ye think I’m not beginning to
see how you and that sly black hag your mother
work against Rod? D’ye think I’m blind? Since
he was a child you’ve had a grudge against him ;
you’ll let no one forget the stain in his blood. As
if that mattered —to my son. I tell you he’ll be able
to pick and choose when it comes to marrying. He’s
James Laurence’s son —that goes anywhere this side
of the Line. Daphne Eliot! She’d be a proud woman
to be my son’s wife.”
Elena’s dark eyes were inscrutable.
On the following afternoon Laurence rode
through Ruvia. The men were cutting at the back
of the island ; two black punts, already low in the
shallow water, lay off the beach, dazzling in the sun-
light. Later Denny would come with the launch to
tow them into the homestead waters. Far out on
the sea’s purple rim lay a blue island, etherealised in
that shining distance. Above drifted billowing,
delicate-hued clouds. The sky overhead was deep,
glowing violet.
From the wooded slopes of the hills came the
incessant cooing of pigeons and sometimes the clear
crowing of wildfowl. The path twisting down to
the sea followed a shallow creek that flowed over
mossed stones and slid into deeper, darker pools,
shadowed here and there by fragrant trees.
He rode leisurely, his strongly built black horse
taking the well-known track at an easy amble. And,
as ever, the feeling of the free open air about him,
the silky touch of the light wind on his face, the sight
on every side of his own land worked their accus-
tomed charm. In almost all his undertakings he had
been successful; he had still one strong desire to be
gratified —to see Rod settled on Ruvia, with another
Roddy playing under the shadow of the peaked hills.
He thought of his girls: of Ruve, the fair, tall,
undesired daughter ; and of little Vivien, his darling.
He was troubled sometimes for Vivien. Emotions
carried her away: she was wilful, reckless, likely to
risk everything to gratify a light caprice, likely to
follow the wild mood of the moment for its passing
joy ; passionate, undisciplined, his little Vivien. Ruve
was different in every way, and just now all her
thoughts were bent on becoming an artist. Well,
marriage would put that moonshine out of her head.
He had a shrewd suspicion that Dick would soon ask
for Ruve. The only quarrel he had with that was
that it was not Vivien, his darling, on whom the
steady-eyed, reliant Dick had set his affections. There
was no man to whom he would more gladly have
given her; she would have been sure of safety and
cherishing with Dick. He was a fine type, was Dick ;
the Islands could do with more of his stamp. If only
Roddy were more like Dick!
“Is that the reason?” he said, bitterness and hurt in his voice.
Always his thoughts came back to Rod. He
was often surprised himself at the intensity of his
desire for Rod to work in with him —cherish Ruvia
as he had cherished it. He would be willing to sit
back then and take a less active part. He’d had his
day. What was to stop Rod, anyway, from taking his
fill of poetry at the same time? He could do that
well enough here if he chose. Unwonted illumination
came to him. Damn it all! Couldn’t the boy see this
was living poetry —to see Ruvia float into light at
dawn ; to see the moon, all burning gold, lift over
the dark Valoa coast and hang like a lamp above
Ruvia? He couldn’t put these things into words —
writing damned words on white paper wasn’t life.
No! He couldn’t put Ruvia into fine words, but
he was aware of space and light and colors quicken-
ing Ruvia with beauty.
It was nearing sunset when he returned to the
homestead. At the beginning of the lines a youth
sprang lightly to open the gate ; the old man rode
slowly through. The smoke of cooking-fires drifted
up in the blue air, women smiled at him, children who
had been born on the estate called out their shrill
salaams and ran to watch him pass. It pleased him
to feel that these dark laborers of his liked and
trusted him. He was a hard man, but he understood
the coolies, and they him. They respected a man
who knew definitely what he wanted and knew him-
self unquestioned ruler.
Denny sang under the shower, the cool, fresh
water flowing over him invigoratingly. Outside, swift
twilight was deepening over Ruvia into a dusk through
which the first faint stars were brightening.
It was good to be a young man. Denny’s
thoughts went back over the good days at Ruvia—-
an island he loved. Images, sensations thronged his
mind —pictures quivering in hot sunlight or set in
light-pierced shadows. Burning hills, hot green gullies
where the copra-cutters worked; the smooth, silkish
parting of warm green water when one waded thigh-
deep behind the black copra-punts; the smell of rank
native tobacco ; laughter and meaty jests—they were
all part of the patterning of his life at Ruvia.
Rod’s queer talk; but, then, he was a queer
fellow in a good many ways, young Rod. But he
made one think.
“You and I, Denny —we’re the same clay. But
why the devil don’t you think more of yourself?
Come to think of it, it’s the people like ourselves, with
Europe and the tropics mixed in us, who ought to
have the say in the Islands. We’re ideally fitted for
the climate, the life. No getaway from it, we should
certainly have the most say.” Damn’ funny talk, that;
\t wouldn’t do for the young man’s father to hear him
holding forth in this unusual strain.
Dick’s easy laughter: “Go slow, Rod, old man;
you can’t change the world in a minute, you know.
Denny’s not exactly a downtrodden slave. Give it a
rest, old fellow.”
Perhaps Rod wasn’t so far wrong, though. Why
shouldn’t they all be on the same footing?
Vivien, Rod’s young sister —a lovely girl if ever
there was one. Denny knew she touched something
in his heart no other girl ever had or would.
But she was not for him. Despite her Island
blood and young Rod’s fine talk, old Laurence
would never consider Denny her equal. Come
to that, he’d think few men good enough for
Vivien. Be blind with rage at the thought of
Denny daring even to lift eyes to her.
Dick was still in a state of mixed elation
and emotion. He had won £lOOO in “a certain
consultation” in which he had taken tickets
ever since he had been on Ruvia. It brought
the dream of a place of his own and Ruve for
his wife within clear sight at last. Laurence
was delighted. “Good luck to you,” he said,
■clapping the young man heartily on the
shoulder. “You deserve it, Dick. If you
take my advice, you’ll invest it in that
little property of Mrs. Bennett’s over in
Valoa yonder. She’s willing to sell,
Denny tells me, and it’s a fine little
block. You’d do well there ; there’s
a good living in the place, provided
it’s looked after properly. It’s
been neglected for years.”
They were all seated on the
lit verandah. It would be good
to have a home of one’s own,
Dick thought. His glance went
to Ruve’s fair head, bent over
a book.
“No, I couldn’t do better
than that —if I can get it,” he
said. “But I’ll be sorry to
leave here.”
“And we’ll be sorry to
lose you, Dick,” Laurence
answered. “But I’m thinking
Rod and I will be coming to
some sort of agreement
presently. I’ve got high
hopes of the boy meeting me
in this. He’ll take over your
work, Dick ; and a good deal of mine, I hope.”
Pride was in his tone. It was plain that
he thought Roddy a marvel. Dick wasn’t so
sure. Roddy had brains and enthusiasm ; it
was some queer instability in him, some lack
of driving power —Dick couldn’t quite put his
finger on it. There might be just one chance
in a hundred that he would make a success
of it.
Rod himself sauntered out on the veran-
dah at this moment.
“Hullo, Dick. Still convinced you’ll wake
up and find you’ve been dreaming?” he said
lightly. _ ...
“Dick’s thinking of buying Vunisesi,” said
Elena.
“By Jove! Are you, Dick? It’s what you’ve
always wanted, though. You’re a lucky devil to have
a plantation flung at you at just the right moment.”
They were all so elated at his good fortune. Dick
felt his heart warm to them —even to Elena, whom
he had never quite liked. There was something about
her he didn’t trust. But she, as well as the others, had
been everything that was good-natured since he had
come to Ruvia.
A little silence fell. Roddy was the first to break
“I’ve never seen the place look so well,” he said.
“The rain, of course. I was up on the hill behind the
lines this afternoon; and there’s no denial Ruvia
is one of the most gorgeous islands in the group.”
His father looked at him, pleased.
“You’ve taken a long while to find it out, Rod,
he said. “It’s a little paradise, this island. I knew it
when I first set eyes on it —when the bush ran wild
over the hills and gullies I’ve cleared. It’s all waiting
for you, my boy.”
Elena laughed.
“Roddy settled down —a stay-at-home planter. /,
for one, couldn’t believe it.”
Roddy smiled sweet-temperedly at her. „
“I couldn’t have believed it myself a month ago,
he admitted. “But the idea’s been growing in me that
a man might have a far worse life.”
“Stroll down the wharf with me, Rod, said his
father. “I’ve a lot to discuss with you.”
Elena’s dark, inscrutable gaze watched them go.
Father and son walked down the long wharf in
the moonlight that appeared to flow through every-
thing.
{Continued on page 50.)


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt’s Ant'acid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
ITT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of -unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
De WITT'S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, In
Large S\y-blae Canister
2/6
A Worm Tries to Turn:-
THE HORRORS OF
HABIT
BY MATT MOLONEY.
44 A NY messages for me, Perce?”
Edgar Chernside put the ques-
tion rather timidly.
There was no immediate reply. Old
Perce did not seem to hear, but went
on puffing his pipe, with the entire
neighborhood as his cuspidor.
Egbert, however, was not affronted. It
was ever thus, for the comparative im-
portance of their positions as press-agent
and stage-door keeper of the Colossal
Theatre seemed to have no bearing on
the situation. Sometimes Egbert was
deprived of information for two or three
minutes whilst Old Perce surveyed the
passing traffic or meditated on the events
of the day.
When Old Perce did condescend to
reply, it was a mere grunt. '‘No! She
never rang.” The emphasis brought
home to Egbert the reason for Perce’s
disapproval.
“She” was Mrs. Chernside, shrewish,
dominating, huge and
ruthless, who had brow-
beaten Egbert into a con-
dition where he was
more of an errand boy
than a husband. Old
Perce was as much sur-
prised as contemptuous.
Usually there were
dozens of instructions
every day, left either by
’phone or personal call,
and Egbert staggered
home with armfuls of
culinary utensils, bulky
vegetables, hatboxes, or
the entrails of a wire-
less set.
Old Perce was not to
know, however, that
Mrs. Chernside had gone
on a vacation, and that
Egbert was enjoying a fortnight’s respite
from persecution.
From his office Egbert could hear Old
Perce discussing his weaknesses.
“That bloke’s more like a flamin’ clerk
than a press-agent. ’E ain’t like the
blokes of the old school, I remembers
Montford Danvers ; six feet six in ’is silk
socks, and with an ’andsome black mo.
you could’ve stuffed a cushion with.”
There was a pause. Then Egbert
heard Old Perce continue.
“Danvers worked much better when
’e was soused. I never forget the time
’e made Oscar Asche walk from the
station in kilts. You see ’e expected
Harry Lauder a week later, and got the
dates mixed. But he was a cove what
could ’andle wimmen. Danvers’s wife
was just like ’im, big, strong and ’and-
Old Perce.
some —without the mo., of course —but it
seldom took ’im more than three rounds
to convince ’er that ’e was boss. Not
like that four-eyed little shrimp in
there.”
Egbert slammed the door so that the
rest of the impeachment could be
ignored.
He had to admit the truth of the im-
putation of his harassed domestic exist-
ence, but he knew in his heart that he
was a more efficient press-agent than the
colorful Danvers had ever been.
As publicity man for Colossal Theatres
Trust he had supplied the press for years
with paragraphs, stories and advertise-
ments which always spoke very highly
of the Colossal enterprises. He was
never sensational, but ever reliable. In
fact, he was so timidly efficient that the
casual onlooker might have got the
impression that he lived for his work.
Far from it. H|s hatred for the
opposite sex was not concentrated on his
better-half. She had embittered him
against women in general. Every line he
wrote extolling the feminine stars
racked the decrepit frame of his type-
writer with cynical dissension.
VENOMOUS stabs at the keys beat out
a tattoo of hatred to the accompani-
ment of bitter mutterings
and mumbled curses.
There was one redeeming
feature so far as the talkie
stars were concerned. They
never answered him back
when they were put back
in their tins at night.
Wooden caskets were the
only fitting receptacles he
could suggest for the
“flesh and blood” ladies
of the Colossal legitimate
attractions.
“This f a 1 s e-a 1 a r m
should be in the old
ladies’ home,” he snarled
as the typewriter wrote:
“Miss Flossie Du Bois,
the young and beautiful
star now appearing in
‘H oi t y Toity’ at the
Gigantic, has made one of the greatest
successes ever known in this city.”
His thoughts continued in bitter vein.
“The frowsy hag can’t sing or dance as
well as my grandmother,” but the
machine went on unerringly: “Her bril-
liant voice is heard to full advantage,
and it is a long time since dancing”——
Momentarily the keys jambed in
protest as he gave vent to his feelings at
the enormity of the written lie.
Though he hated the artistes with a
feeling akin to fanaticism, he turned out
daily eulogies of their “anonymous”
charities, moral rectitude and winning
habits, and when the regular “theatre
jewel robbery” season came around it
was always a matter of deep regret that
the typewriter announced the recovery
of Miss Fanny Fosby’s onyx-studded
tiara, worn by her in the royal com-
mand performance in 1906.
Chorus ladies, soubrettes and comedi-
ennes all added to the prevarications of
the patient portable, every line extolling
their virtues and popularity, whilst his
fingers itched to jot down the swirling
and dangerous thoughts of truth.
“I don’t think I could ever write the
truth again,” was his dismal conviction.
The mental gloom
was deepened by his
recollection of Old
Perce’s criticism.
“Drinking man —a
handler of women—•
I’ll show them!”
Egbert emerged
from his office with
such a rush that Old
Perce splashed his
own feet in astonish-
ment, and his speech
was dried up com-
pletely when he saw
the press-agent stride determinedly into
the hotel opposite.
On isolated gala occasions such as the
time his wife fell down the back steps,
Egbert was wont to regale himself with
a port wine and lemonade. He was a
creature of habit, so he again ordered
port wine.
“Straight?” asked the barmaid.
“No, fill it up with gin, so that it won’t
make any difference to the color.”
When the barmaid suggested that the
mixture was unorthodox, he asserted his
manhood with a thump on the bar.
I m paying for it, so do what you’re
told,” he shouted. A thoroughly cowed
Hebe ransacked every shelf as she
brought in rapid succession a brandy-
stout, whisky-schnapps and rum-sherry.
Egbert was about to order a beer-coffee
royal when the bar showed signs of in-
constancy, and moved off just as he went
to lean on it.
CEVERAL hours later he awoke at
u home with the muddled satisfaction
of seeing his wife’s best counterpane
wrapped around his muddy feet. Dur-
ing Mrs. Chernside’s vacation he had
worn his boots in the drawing-room,
smoked in bed, let the next-door cat
sleep in the clothes-basket; in fact, he
had done everything that the absent
tyrant had forbidden.
Then as a combined pick-me-up and
crowning revenge he consumed all the
nerve tonic that his wife had concealed
for herself in the sideboard.
His suspicions were confirmed. The
percentage of alcohol was high, and the
flame of rebellion was rekindled as the
nerve tonic swirled around his brain.
“Go for a holiday with your mother,
will you! ” shouted Egbert at the biliously
tinted crayon
enlargement of
his spouse.
“W ell, you
can stop there
for ever.” A
well-aimed pat
of raspberry-
jam trickled
from her eye-
fa ro w and
dropped into
the goldfish
bowl.
He would
end it all. A
stiff, stern
message telling
Mrs. Chernside.
Oscar Asche in kilts.
her never to return would do the trick,
so he hastened back to his office while
courage was still upon him. En route
he framed a dozen ultimatums, until he
found one ideally expressive.
“The worm has turned. Stop. I never
intend to live with you again. Stop.
Tired of your face, company and nag-
ging. Stop. You can stop with your old
lady for good. Stop.”
Yes! That one would do.
As he inserted a telegraph form in
his typewriter, his fingers tingled with
enthusiasm for the first time in years,
and as he typed there was a happy glow
on his face.
He returned to bed a rejuvenated man.
Two days later he had just placed the
last remaining cup and saucer with the
week’s supply in the sink, and was
looking for the hose to wash up, when
an excited figure hastened into the
kitchen.
“Darling,” it shouted.
Egbert swayed with shock, pop-eyed
in utter disbelief. Was it an after-effect
of the nerve tonic?
Unfortunately, no! The figure was
Mrs. Chernside in the very considerable
flesh.
“What the—why—er” stammered
Egbert.
“Darling,” repeated Mrs. Chernside.
“Until I got your ducky little tele-
Port-wine and gin.
gram I never realised how lonely you
were, and 1 promise never to go away
again.”
“May I see the wire, please, my dear?”
he asked timidly, as grave doubts crossed
his mind. At first his eyes dilated in
amazement, then he shuddered as the
awful truth dawned upon him.
With a piercing scream he dashed
from the house, leapt aboard a taxi and
then knocked down Old Perce in his
mad rush into his office.
A bulky missile whizzed through the
short passage, and fell with a terrific
crash in front of a passing tram. There
was an ominous crunching and grinding,
and, as Egbert’s typewriter was broken
into a thousand pieces, Old Perce looked
up to see the press-agent’s frenzied glee
framed in the doorway.
Meanwhile at home Mrs. Chernside
pondered over the potentialities of a tele-
gram which merely read: “Sweetheart, I
miss your cheery smile, tender care and
beautiful presence. Please come back at
once to your adoring Egbert.”


iV.
525
%
a.
"/ always go by
P&O
-it's more comfortable!"
Produce
f Fru.ii
Sheep |
s\% .<? V
DEVELOPMENT
IN all parts of the State progressive farmers are
striving for success; improving flocks and herds,
devoting skilled attention to crops and pastures,
building silos, modernising their plant —competing
for an adequate share of world markets with pro-
ducers overseas. On the success of our primary
producers depends the State’s prosperity because,
in value, primary production represents about sixty
per cent, of the State’s total production. Approxi-
mately 18,000 farmers are being assisted in their
efforts by the Rural Bank, which in turn depends on
the co-operation of the public for the funds that
make the credit possible. Fixed Deposits are ac-
cepted and cheque accounts opened at all of
the Bank’s branches throughout the State.
ĕ
7lu RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch : 350 George Street, (Opp. Wynyard St.)
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President). H. Rogers. P. Kearns.
Every Profession Has Its Misfits:-
VICTIMS.
BY SIMON L.
TO Nurse Halley the day was perfectly
normal, even humdrum. How many,
many times had she done just the
same thing—put clothes to air on the
high fender; seen to hot water, every-
thing ; watched the progress of a case
mechanically; rung up the doctor. Her
stiff, broad white apron, her hard,
starched cap, protested against the bore-
dom.
To the woman on the bed the only
real thing on earth was her pain, the
sickening recurrence of it, the waiting
for its alleviation. “The doctor’s such
a long time coming.”
“He should be here in a few minutes,”
said Nurse Halley (thinking as she spoke
“They crave him like strong drink”). “You
know really you don’t need him yet.
You’re going along splendidly.”
The woman, healthy-looking, plump-
faced, tossed her head wildly from side
to side on the pillow. “Didn’t you ring
him up, nurse?”
“Oh, yes, I rang him up.” Same old
question. Same answer.
And then the door opened and the
doctor walked in. He was dark,
fresh-faced, strongly-framed, like a
genial farmer. He wore a comfortable
rough grey suit, not scrupulously clean.
An immense air of comfort seemed to
steal out from him.
“No bell, nothing,” thought the nurse in
contempt. “Oh, no; he wouldn’t bother
to ring or knock, not he.”
“Well, how’s the patient?” he said,
walking up to the bed. He had just
come from budding his carnations, and
he felt very happy because they were
going to be fine this year.
The woman grew quiet at once. “Oh,
doctor, I’m so glad you’ve come. You
make everything so different. How long
is it going to be?”
He was unconsciously proud of the
effect his presence had on his patients,
and it made him feel sympathy towards
all suffering. He bent over her.
“I hope he washes his hands,” thought
the nurse, alarmed. “Doctor,” she said,
“here’s the basin ready for you. Will
you scrub up?”
All the notice he took of this was to
say absent-mindedly: “That’s all right,
nurse. Look here. I think she’s gone
long enough. Suppose we give her a
whiff or two. Oh” —at a look in her eyes —
“yes, I know it’s rather soon, but it’s
just as well”
He opened his bag. Nurse Halley
groaned to herself, “Why on earth
doesn’t he leave them alone? I wonder
whether the instruments are sterilised?”
<<ll7 ELL, now, it’s all over, and every-
"" thing’s all right. And you’ve got
a fine boy. Aren’t you pleased?”
“Yes, but it’s you, doctor. You make
everything so different.”
“He does that,” thought Nurse Halley
grimly. “And now, I suppose, unless
we’re lucky, I’ll have the worry of one
of his borderline cases.”
Carnations! The doctor hurried up
the hall, out of the swinging, mock-
ing door, and breathed happily. He
longed, with professional ardor, to get
at his carnations again, to check their
riotous living, to ensure their perfect
flowering.
About Nurse Halley’s patient he
was perfectly at ease. “Everything’s
quite all right,” he said as the days went
by and she did not progress as she should.
“Yes, I know she’s not picking up as
quickly as But, you see, she wasn’t
an ordinary case, and you might expect
something like this.” When Nurse
Halley pointed to the chart with its tell-
tale curves, “Yes, but you’ve got to ex-
pect this sort of thing. Temperamental,
too. Nerves. Look here, the tempera-
ture’s down this morning—slightly down
last night. Now, you see, she’ll con-
tinue to improve.”
“But” —and she outlined symptoms.
“Yes, but all that—you’re sure to
have that condition for a while. Now,
don’t worry.” He patted her on the
shoulder. It was like patting an unre-
sponsive piece of wood. A contemptuous
wooden image. But a fine nurse. Always
trust her with a difficult case.
Nurse Halley worried. Decided the
patient must go. Things might be awk-
ward. Wavered.
The patient’s temperature
suddenly dropped to normal.
The doctor was as pleased
as Punch. “You see, nurse!
What did I say? Now we’re
along the right road at last.”
The woman’s face was yellow.
Her healthy, plump look was
gone. “She wants to go home,
doctor.”
“What? Now, come, that’s a
good sign. Home, does she?
But —well, what do you think,
nurse?”
He glanced at her. Her face
was. hard. “If she wants to go. She
says they can look after her and the
baby. If she takes great care of her-
self.”
In the end, the woman went home.
Nurse Halley had an uncomfortable feel-
ing underneath her hardness. “That poor
creature’s not going to get better. Can t
he see it? She shouldn’t have gone, but
wherever she goes it’ll be the same. I’ve
got my living to think of.”
THREE days later the doctor rang
up the matron of the little general hos-
pital. “I’m sending you a very sick
patient . . . No, impossible to say . . .
Better put her in the private ward. Have
her specialled. Under observation.”
The matron walked thoughtfully down
to the wards. She was a youngish
woman, not yet hardened to absolute
acquiescence in doctors’ methods. Often
she had trembled on the brink of telling
the doctor exactly what she thought
of him. From his manner she expected
this to be a septic case.
And when the woman came in she
knew.
“Then what really is wrong, doctor?”
He followed her up the hall. “The
truth is, matron, she was in Nurse
Halley’s some weeks ago —confinement —
evidently left before she was properly fit.
Couldn’t afford to stay longer, you see.
She’s picked up a germ somewhere.”
“How many weeks ago, doctor?”
“Two or three. Let me see. No, four.
A little over.”
“Since she left, doctor?”
“No, no. Since she was first there.”
“And she’s been out”
“A few days.”
Pause. “And she showed no signs of
illness while she was there, doctor?”
“Well, she was up and down, of
course. A slow case. Temperature and
so on. Though that was well down the
day she left.”
“I see.” She stood still for a minute,
looking down. Suddenly she wanted to
put her years of rigid training behind her
and say, “Then this is septicaemia, and
you know we can’t have such cases here.
It’s against the regulations, and she
should have been sent on to the public
hospital. I can’t uphold you in your
mistakes. The board will have to know.
It’s plain to me you haven’t sent her on
because you don’t want to broadcast
your mistakes.”
But she just tightened her lips, looked
at him queerly, and walked with him to
the outside door. There was another
reason besides her training that forbade
her to speak: her affection for another
side of his nature that the whole staff
adored —his careless lovableness, his boy-
ishness, his way of cracking little jokes
in the theatre when they were all feeling
worn out.
She went back to the private ward
with the sister who was to “special” the
case, and, weakly, the sick woman said,
in a comforted sort of way, “I always
feel —that kind doctor, he always makes
you feel better, doesn’t he?”
“How extraordinary this thing called
personality is! ” thought the matron. “He
leads them blindly to death, or pretty
near it, and all they have to say is, ‘He
makes me feel better as soon as he
comes in.’ ”
A FEW days later when she came in
to her bright, leaping fire from that
other fire that was nearly out to its last
grey ash, she said almost aloud: “What
on earth can stop this sort of thing?
Here we are in the modern age.
Here I am, and so is everyone else, tied
more and more by convention. Halley
got rid of that case ; we didn’t want it
here, and we all say nothing, as if we’re
sealed. The poor woman would have
been a thousand times better off if she’d
had her baby out in the bush, and not a
soul within coo-ee.”
Out in his garden that afternoon the
doctor was spraying a favorite rose.
Carefully he went into every corner of
every leaf and stem. He had found a
tiny spot of disease near the root. Jt
was a lovely rose, crimson, warm with
perfume.
Suddenly it reminded him of the little
matron with her warm dark hair and
soft coloring, and for a moment he stood


39%
less
Oceai
%
Wk
by
Empress" or "Duchess"
STEAMERS
Spaciousness . . . comfort. . . sport
. . . glamour . . . personal service—
you find them all aboard these
floating palaces.
From Montreal or Old Quebec take
a luxurious “Empress” or “Duchess”
Steamer down the sheltered
St. Lawrence seaway.
Picturesque French-Canadian shore
lines . . . peaceful waters . . . two
days less open Atlantic. A regal
trip at moderate rates.
Any Tourist 110011108: Agency or
CANADIAN I’ACII'TC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
l4/35
■rut
E e ID 'lllßipM
■~rar«~m»'ri' hn
:vi\ imM
■6ZS
,r,-
WMt~<
an
Sit/.:
4 s&i*&
rf# S
AJ
\\\W , '-N
&
•‘
—. is,.
\.\ X -^.W-.SJ
'\
HM
EXPANSION
For 119 years, the Bank of New South Wales has con-
sistently promoted the expansion of Australian industry
and trade.
Deposits and shareholders' funds now total over
£105,000,000.- This money is used to assist those who
can profitably increase production or extend Australia's
internal and overseas trade.
Every man or woman who deposits money with this
Bank assists the Bank to co-operate still further in the
development of the country's resources and the ex-
pansion of employment for Australian workers.
At each of the Bank's 753 branches throughout Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands, interest
bearing deposits may be lodged and cheque drawing
accounts may be opened.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817) ,
196A.36
AkmcL^
/Tv aFl93s/
J
Slromberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo -phonic RADIO
I v-—^
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
A FEAST OF FUN
“The Great Book of Humor”
768 Pages—so Masterpieces of Humor by
World-famous Authors. Wodehouse, Priestley
Milne, Jacobs, Chesterton, Peacock, etc., etc.
Special Concession Offer to Headers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue.
On Sale All Newsagents—PßlCE 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take>
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
still. He pushed his hat back, walked up
to the house, rambled round the surgery.
“Twenty years a widower,” a voice
said in his ear. “Twenty years—twenty
years”
He came out again and went down to
the rose. “Damn it, why not?” he said
robustly to the voice. Why the devil
hadn’t it occurred to him before?
He cut five of the velvety rosebuds,
carefully, so that their loss would not
interfere with the shape of the tree. As
he walked with them to his car, his
natural optimism made him feel like a
joyous schoolboy, and as he shot the car
out of the garage and round a gatepost
he felt newly, ridiculously alive.
At the hospital he stopped with a
jerk, walked swiftly up the path, in the
front door and into the matron’s sitting-
room. Perhaps he knocked lightly, but
she came forward, surprised. This hurry
where his patients were concerned had
no precedence in her memory.
“Oh, you’ve come! I’m afraid, doctor,
she’s nearly gone” Her eyes were
dark-rimmed. She was fighting, hope-
lessly, to stop a march-on death.
“What?” He thrust the buds into her
hand. “Oh, yes, poor woman —I’ll go
and have a look at her. And while I’m
there” —she thought his tone almost jubi-
lant —“slip on your things and get into
the car. No, don’t come into the room.
Sister will do.” He looked round, in-
terrupted her protest. “Now, come
along, matron! A little fresh air will
do you good. I’ve told you before
that you take these cases too much
to heart. Do what you can for them—
help them without letting ’em knock too
hard on your sympathy. It’s bad for
you. Make you old before your time.”
Yes, after all, she was doing what she
could. There was no logic in staying.
She sniffed at the roses, put them in
a vase and went off, thinking: “How I
like him in these moods!”
But, if unusually bright, he was un-
usually silent. Once he drove with one
hand, while he put the other over hers ;
once he murmured something, she was
not sure what. Her heart, for a modern
heart, was beating a little fast when they
stopped among tea-tree by a lonely spot
of beach.
He put a hand over hers again. Among
his rush of words and the confusion in
her own mind, she heard only the end
of what he was saying. “My dear, I want
you to marry me.” ,
She sat quite still, staring at the sea.
He began to draw her to him. “No,
please. Let me think.” She opened the
car door and ran down the beach.
SHOULD she? Or—she forced herself
to concentrate as she would on a surgi-
cal case in the theatre. On the one hand,
comfort, rest from responsibility, even
happiness—oh, she knew this would not
hold for her the ecstatic quality of her
young love that she had given once and
had been repulsed. Position, for what
it was worth. The wife of a doctor be-
loved in the district. On the other hand,
her ambition to use this small hospital as a
stepping-stone to a big city training hos-
pital would be gone. Her husband—a
nonentity in his profession. Looking at
the grey sea behind which the sun had
gone down in cloud, she saw a grey face
which should now be bright with health.
One of his mistakes. She saw others—
Victims. A word came out from the
depths of her soul and stood out black
in her brain .. . Murder. Steady! Wasn’t
it really his fundamental unfittedness for
his calling, his very sympathy and boy-
ishness, rather than any guilty fault in
himself, that brought about these failures?
But, no, she would not. She knew too
much. Impossible to live with one for
a part of whose nature she felt contempt.
Ambition was enough for her. Well,
and then what? A nurse was never free
in the way she read freedom. More and
more she grew like a professional dumb
image. A trainer of dumb images—
useful, mechanical images, but for ever
dumb.
She walked slowly back to the car.
“No, I can’t. I’m sorry. It’s not pos-
sible.”
“Why?”
“Ambition. My profession.”
“Good God! Anything else?”
She hesitated. “Yes.”
“Go ahead.”
“I may be able to tell you some day,”
knowing that in the very nature of things
she never would.
Not a word more. He turned the car
round, drove back in silence. His youth-
ful joy had gone out.
AND, while she sat there beside him,
something, she did not know what,
some element of his lovable, careless per-
sonality, stole out to her, very heady,
like the mixed scent that blew across
them, of beach and boobyalla, with the
sweetly intoxicating ice-plant trailing
and curling over it. Some strange ele-
ment that blotted out his imperfections
and reached down to the affection for
him that was in her. Something primi-
tive that dwarfed the little deaths of the
world and made life big and throbbing.
When he stopped at the gate she turned
to him, and, knowing that she was glad
to change the boyishly hurt look on his
face, put her hand on his arm.
He looked down.
“After all, it’s ‘Yes,’ ” she said.
The sister came hurrying down the hall
to find her, to tell her that for the last
ten minutes she had not been able to
get the pulse of the private-ward patient.
Tale of the Australian Alps:—
Dead ’Uns.
BY MYRA MORRIS.
BERTA hated the snow. At first, when
Max had taken her up to the little
house in the Gap, she had found
something fascinating in the sharp con-
trasts of a desolate world given over
entirely to black and white, in the austere
view of mountain peaks lifted against the
sky in frosty pinnacles and glittering
battlements. Even the incredible silence
of the place had held a comforting
quality, a silence that pressed upon you
like layers of cotton-wool and made your
ears sing and your heart hammer.
There had been something romantic
in the idea of her, Berta, from the
smelly little saddler’s shop in the Apple
Valley, marrying a great lump of a man
who wrested a living from the earth of
such implacable regions. But now, after
two winters of it, there was no romance
left. There were menace in the snow,
loneliness in the utter silence and a biting
anguish in the cold. Even Max had
come in some way to identify himself
with the hard nature of his surroundings,
so that when Berta said she hated the
snow she meant that she hated Max, too.
The spring thaw had begun now.
Everywhere around you, in the sharp
silence of the days, you could hear the
crack of breaking icicles, the rumbling,
mumbling sound of avalanches slipping
into the valleys below. It was as though
you lived in a thin glass house and lis-
tened to its being struck with little silver
hammers about your ears.
On this particular afternoon sound
carried very plainly. Quite clearly Berta
had heard Max coming a long way off.
That was why (with a little shock of
fear at her heart) she had bundled Arne
out, pointed to the front track that wound
secretly between the great black boulders
and shut the door on his troubled, boyish
face. She did not want the two men to
meet again. Their coming together, she
knew, would be fatal. Not that she felt
guilty. “We have done no harm,” she
would have cried truthfully, but she was
aware in her heart that the harm was
done.
She was tremblingly in love with
Arne. Through the worst agony of the
winter she had lived for his weekly visits
when he had come across from the big
tourist-crowded hostel to which he was
attached for the duration of the winter
sports. Arne, the ski-runner, laugh-
ing-eyed and pink-cheeked and young,
the very antithesis of Max, whose
long face had the harshness of
the black boulders that stuck up
out of the snow. He had gone away,
and now he had come back again with
a party of belated sportsmen who were
to lodge at the hostel for three days.
And this time Arne was different. Seri-
ous and disturbed, ramming it home to
her that she could not go on living month
by month this shut-away life with a
tyrannical husband for whom she had
ceased to care.
She was to meet Arne the next after-
noon —early— at the hostel. He had
extracted her promise easily enough, for
there would be no danger from Max.
He never went near the hostel, and
would be away from the house driving
some of the cattle up into the higher
pastures where the snow had already
melted.
Now she glanced round uneasily.
Max’s steps rang out on the snowy path
at the back. The living-room was dim,
as it always was, with the house
lying as it did in the cold shadow of the
mount. Everything had a green, watery
100k —the yellowish tablecloth with its
tattered fringe, the ugly linoleum worn
through to its sketchy lining, the caver-
nous fireplace with its smouldering log
and sliding heap of silvery ash. Even
her face—the pretty, golden-haloed face
of a little woman born to be petted and
cuddled —had that green, unearthly
quality.
SHE shook up a cushion hastily and
kicked the hearthrug straight. Max
loathed things to be out of place. In
the beginning it was her inborn untidi-
ness that had led to the quarrels that
left her with the cowering timidity of a
beaten puppy.
Her voice when he stamped into the
room slapping his gloved hands together
had an ingratiating softness.
“You’re early, Max. The kettle’s on.
Will you have your tea now?”
He stood at the door staring, a tall,
stooped man with a beaked nose that
gave his dark face in profile the look
of a predatory bird. He liked finding
fault. He liked to see Berta flush and
quiver when he called her attention to
something that was wrong. The quality
of the food, the creases in her stockings,
the state of the fire. It was her softness
that had drawn him in the beginning.
It was that softness that he was finding
a sadistic pleasure in eradicating. His
mother had been a hard woman. She
had felt nothing, neither heat nor cold,
and she had kept the little house in the
Gap like a new pin. In time he would
make Berta like his mother.


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“RUMINATIONS OF AN
EX-ROCK-FISHERMAN.”
A whimsical essay
by
LES ROBINSON.
EVERY STITCH HAND SEWN
THE
No. 136
TUMBA
CATTLE
POLEY
£l2/10/-
( COMPLETE)
This saddle was
chosen by Lance
Skuthorpe, the
Champion Aus-
tralian Buckjump Rider,
for his rough riding. Note
the combined flap and skirt
sewn direct to the seat,
thus giving the narrowest
non-chafing grip possible.
It is a saddle which will last a lifetime.
For Cash with Order we pay rail jreight in
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN.
271 Collins Street.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
#TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
:
1
A
i ■ * U
:
m
funmlumSiMalttiimilimnfmi
mwio:i
nmna
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Necessities to users _ in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits, Not“Pg so P _
manently profitable as your own business, Full 113
no obligation. Write JOHN GIHMOTJR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, fejdn y,
“As soon as you like,” he said, answer-
ing her question with his usual slowness.
“What’s this in here? Blind Man’s
Holiday?”
With a nervous little laugh she drew
the tall, green-bowled lamp towards her
and lit it with the last match in the box.
The light, while it did not touch the
farther corners of the room, showed up
everything within a narrow radius.
Berta, moving the lamp forward, her
eyes downcast, felt her heart suddenly
thump. On the floor scattered round the
sagging chair on which Arne had sat
lay a host of burnt-out matches. She
had an instant’s vision of Arne sitting
there with his long legs spread out, his
fingers rolling a cigarette. It had taken
a long while to draw, that clumsy cigar-
ette. She caught her breath. Max
hated to see matches on the floor. She
remembered how he had tried to cure
her of her slovenly habit of throwing
them down. Once he had kicked her
half-playfully as she stooped. Yes, play-
fully—still
“I’ll bring in the tea,” she said thinly,
and was relieved when he followed her
out to the gloomy little kitchen, creak-
ingly drawing off his outer clothes.
“No time to waste,” he told her as
she piled things on the tin tray and car-
ried them inside.
“Got to go out again. I saw that sick
cow coming down the spur, and I gotter
drive it along to the enclosure by the
hut. Trailing its rug, the silly beast.”
“Won’t it do to-morrow?”
Berta looked nervously through the
lace curtains of the window on to a
night that had grown suddenly as black
as ink.
“It’s a long way up to the hut,
and”
“No, it won’t do to-morrow.”
The man let himself down into a
chair and sighed. His face, wind-bitten
and sunburnt, looked morose and weary.
“To-morrow I’m staying round the
house. There’s a couple of jobs can't
wait. The burst roof on the cowshed
and the sledge to mend.”
Berta felt herself agonising as she
poured the hot water on the tea-leaves.
If he were about all day how could she
leave the house? And, if she did not
meet Arne as she had promised, perhaps
he would come barging along to see her.
Whichever way it was it was hopeless.
Max and Arne. Arne and Max. Those
two men must not meet again. Too
much would be said. There was a
lot to be thought over first.
Max was stooping down, his quick,
dark gaze roving over the floor. Sud-
denly his hand swooped out.
“Who’s bin here?” he asked harshly.
“Who’s bin sitting on that chair chuckin
matches around?”
Again Berta gave that nervous tinkling
laugh and her eyes fell.
“Why, no one, Max. No one. Who-
ever”—
“No one, eh?” His baleful stare en-
compassed her. “You bin at your old
slatternly ways again then, my girl? Pick
’em all up, do you hear!”
Berta crawled over the cold floor,
hunching her shoulders as if for a blow.
Her red, chilblained fingers groped
along the linoleum. In silence she
dropped the matches into the box and
replaced it on the mantelpiece.
Max watched her with frowning un-
certainty ; then he smiled.
“If you’ve lied you better look out,”
he said grimly. “If it’s that young
buck who hung round here in the winter
back again, I’ll break every bone in his
body. Yours, too! ”
Berta said nothing. She cleared the
dishes silently and watched him go out
with his swinging lantern, thrusting a
box of matches into his outside pocket.
THE man shuffled confidently through
the snow. It was piercingly cold. The
light from the lantern made a circle of
pale watery gold that moved with him.
At the top of the ridge he hesitated.
All the way up his suspicions, lulled in
that little room, had thrust at him like
knives. Berta—:the ring of matches
round the chair. The sort of chair a
man sat in.
He felt his rage boil up. Had she lied?
Had that young jumping-jack really
been there? Come to think of it, hadn’t
the mailman said something about late
visitors at the hostel? They always
fancied that Arne as a guide.
He took a sudden half-turn, his mind
made up. He’d go to the hostel
straight now and find out for himself.
It would be stiff going certainly, on un-
familiar ground. He’d have to pick his
way carefully along the precipitous side
of the ridge. There was a nasty drop
there. But he had his good lantern.
THEY found him at the foot of the
rocky wall in the morning. Further
back up top were the lantern and a box
of burnt-out matches.
“Must of stumbled in the snow,” they
opined quietly, “and the lantern went
out on him, and he couldn’t light it
again somehow. Funny thing—he must
of put the dead ’uns back in the box.
They’re all dead ’uns. A funny thing
to do”
Yes, a man would be lost without lan-
tern-light, they agreed sadly. He couldn’t
have floundered more than forty yards
before going over the side. It was a
bad job altogether, and someone would
have to break the news to his missus.
The Rose at the Show.
She stands there —beautiful as dawn,
Pure as great love
And fresh as crystal dew,
Each petal set with perfect grace and
sweep,
Her coral heart a most exquisite shell —
She stands before the judge.
This is her day of days,
Her hour of hours,
When beauty condescends
To walk among the flowers.
She stands before the judge.
Coarse-grained, greasy and fat,
He touches her with hands
Dirt-browned, tobacco-stained,
Pudgy with lack of sense.
He looks at her with eyes
Of saturnine intent.
He breathes on her with breath
Assoiled by common s'peech.
She stands before the judge.
’Tis he will praise her form,
Her texture, her perfume,
Her shapeliness, her state,
The spirit that she wove
Just for and of herself
Of dainty, dancing dew,
The round beams of the sun
And Nature’s tender love.
She stands before the judge,
And trembles as she stands:
Scion of many queens
They brought from far-off lands;
The slave of man; his joy;
His dream ; his worshipping ;
A pearl of pearls; a bride
Fit for a faery king.
She stands before the judge,
And faints against a thorn.
The world ... a show of flowers
Beautiful . . . forlorn.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Rhyme without Reason.
One day as in the fields I strolled,
When new-mown hay was not yet old,
/ chanced to meet a lonely cow
That stood beneath a shady bough.
Not fat was she nor yet too lean ;
Her very face, her whole demean,
Her modest unassuming air
And absolutely vacant stare
Marked her a cow whose happy life
Was quite unmarred by worldly strife.
I looked into her soft brown eye,
And as I looked l heard her sigh ;
I saw a moist and glistening tear
Upon her lashes thick appear ;
A fly crawled on her dark-blue nose —
It altered not my cow’s repose.
I wondered what deep wound had wrest.
Such sorrow from her bovine breast,
What poignant tale of love or fear
Had caused that solitary tear.
“O cow,” I said, ‘‘unhappy cow,
What secret sorrow ails you now ?
Confess to me, and I will roll
The clouds of sorrow from your soul!”
She looked me sadly in the eye,
And from her nose she blew the fly.
She did not heed my friendly word,
Ungrateful creature and absurd —
She vented a prodigious yawn
And trod with force upon my cawn.
O wicked beast, both harsh and rude,
To show me such ingratitude !
VICTORIA.
D. A. TAIT.


it
a
fin
fV.tE'
s^ s
Tin
m
i
i
v/^
tS&sg
***«
»ra&E
This Company, operating service
buses, has had 18 years" experi-
ence with many makes of trucks,
and after thoroughly analysing
costs and performances has stand-
ardised on Ford V-B's. The same
decision is being made every day
by truck operators in all classes
of haulage and carrying work—
Ford V-8 has proved itself the
truck for modern business. Its fea-
tures include Full-floating rear
axle. Straddle Mounted Driving
Pinion, Truck-type Clutch and
Safety Glass Windscreen. Your
Ford dealer will gladly arrange
an "on-the-job" test with the
V-8 unit suited to your particular
work—telephone him to-day. Easy
purchase terms are available.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-a TRUCKS
POWERED WITH V 8 TRUCK-TYPE ENGINES
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria) F37.30.C
'‘The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Bray Rock”: A visit to a Japanese
fishmarket brings his native land close
to any Australian fisherman. Small
wonder the energetic little men raid our
waters on an ever-increasing scale, for
three-quarters at least of their favorite
food-fish are so like our own that they
could be sold unnoticed in Sydney. The
sacred tai is our snapper’s twin. Flat-
head, barracouta, mullet, flounder, sea-
bream (next to tai in public estimation),
jew, tailer, garfish, leatherjackets, cod,
mackerel and other species, which we
have, but do not yet use as food, are
all to be seen. The benisashi, a particular
favorite of Japanese epicures, is our red
mullet. Even the curious small crab with
an ugly human face on its back which
Northerners know as the old-woman
crab occurs in Japan.
**, * *
“Centurion”: Touching those Bedouin
bullets (B. 8/1/’36), their unpleasantness
was largely due to the fact that the
rifling of the ancient Peabody-Martinis,
which many of the breed in Sinai
affected, had almost worn away. The
result was that soon after leaving the
barrel the long bullet began to turn end-
over-end. This made a most disconcert-
ing noise and, if it hit, a ghastly wound.
A lot of nonsense is talked of the
atrocity of the expanding bullet. The
old soft-lead Martini, especially if the
rifle was fired at short range, made as
satisfactory an excavation —from the
shooter’s point of view—as any expand-
ing or hollow-nosed projectile.
“Remus”; Among all the “sanctions”
which Italy is bearing up against or is
threatened with, nobody has mentioned
what the historic land is likely to lose
by the sudden blow to the tourist traffic.
At a Travel Association meeting the
Prince who is now King said that in
1934 overseas visitors spent in the U.K.
£25,000,000 —very little less than the
revenue from the sales of coal. Tourists
naturally have money to spend, and
generally spend it royally, but the harvest
that countries like Britain and France
reap from them in normal times must
be scanty besides that which goes to
Italy.
* * * *
“Maitland”: There is small room for
surprise in reading of the minor riot at
Cape Town when play in the third Test
was blocked by rain. Cape Town has an
extraordinarily mixed population—lash-
ings of Hindus and Malays, as well as
boggins of plain nigger, said nigger being
the most bumptious in the Union. The
cables tell of Malays and Hindus rush-
ing the grandstand seats. As prices for
admission to South African Tests are
high, and both the above would give a
Scotsman points in estimating the value
of money, this would have been some
recompense to them.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: There is some rumor of
a Manila polo team coming to Australia
for the S.A. centenary jamboree. The
gymkhana will be held at Birkalla in
March, which won’t give the visitors
much time to organise. In past years
the American contingent in Manila
played a good deal of polo, and matches
with teams at Hong Kong and Shanghai
were not unknown. In those days, at
least, the Filipino, not a natural horse-
man by any means, was never heard of
as a player. Probably our visitors-to-be-
will be recruited from the U.S. Army
of Occupation and the civilian element.
A few Australian ponies used to find
their way to Manila, but the sturdy little
country-breds suited the purses of the
players better.
* * .* *
“Beargrass”: Alderman Stapley, of
Melbourne, in his advocacy of the ex-
cellent idea of tree-planting in all city
thoroughfares, has been referring to
“Melbourne’s wide streets.” But the
streets of Melbourne are wide only in
comparison with those of Sydney and
other cities, which have never been
brought up to date. Compared with
streets in the modern parts of Paris,
Berlin and Moscow, Melbourne streets
are narrow and congested—they are not'
nearly wide enough to carry the traffic
which now flows through the main
thoroughfares. Every post-revolution
city in the United States possesses prin-
cipal thoroughfares beside which
Collins-street is a lane, and it is only in
the ancient parts of Boston and New
York that it is possible to find replicas
of British town-planning. Even with the
exceptionally wide footpaths on the
Paris boulevards, the carriage ways can
give Melbourne many feet. Motor
traffic suggests the return of the three-
chain road for the central thoroughfares
of all new cities.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.W.: Very feeble. We cannot send de-
tailed criticisms by mail G.P.: It isn’t verse
at all; it’s just long-winded, ill-rhymed, un-
metrical rigmarole... .D.M.M.: Nothing in it.
I.M.: Thin as buttermilk K.F.: Apos-
trophe to a cow beginning:
I love your kindly face, dear Strawberry,
The touch of your rough old teats,
regretfully rejected... .G.D.M.: No largesse
for “Fiddler Fred” J.V.: Afraid we can’t
assist you there... .M.R.P.: The story had
distinct dramatic possibilities, but when we
were anticipating a snappy denouement you
left it in the air R.A.: Just a few incidents.
C.S.: “Tosh” is J.T.: Fails, but not
by much R.D.M.: Parodies on the Persian
tentmaker have been done to death, though
yours is not a bad effort... .E.H.: As dis-
jointed as a centipede that’s been fed into a
concrete-mixer A.S.: It says nothing new
on the gold-strike theme... .R.B.: Plot too
conventional, though well handled A.G.H.:
We’re not keen on sixteenth-century short
stories... .G.R.P.: —
Come now, come along with me.
Be as a Bee, and be with me.
Invitation declined... .S.M.: Harrowing ex-
periences of shearers’ cook made our rural
editor burst into tears... .A.G.: Uncle Ben
now has two curses to put up with.
A.G.J.: None of them rings the bell....
Wapiti: Two lines quoted as a warning to
others: —
Australia, girt by many seas, unknown vastness,
primeval, wildly grotesque, majestic, alone and
great,
Never releasing those who have heard your silence,
brooded with you, brooding, read your inexor-
able laws, seen your tempers harsh and cruel
and your enchanting smiles.
A.McD.: Interesting, but unsuitable....
E.A.S.: Still misses, though substantially im-
proved... .J.M.: A clever ruse, but yarn lacks
interest... .V.R.: “The Wanderer,” his mission
a failure, is returning E.A.S.: Neither strong
enough to prise open a cheque-book D.W.
Much better than your previous effort, but
still below the mark; and it’s at least 1000
words too long... .G.R.C.: Depression stories
are a drug on the market; most of them are
depressing, and few are stories... .P.D.: “For
all her 22 years she was still much of a girl”;
well, what would you expect her to be at that
age—a middle-aged woman? ... .H.W.: Not
badly told, but you are a bit liberal with tech-
nical asides on goldmining GJ.H.: Too
personal for use... .J.P.O’S.: Anagrams on
Friendship —in 1936! We thought they died
out with antimacassars and link-boys—
C.L.D.: Very little in them... .J.M.: “Ves-
pers” is merely chopped-up prose; “Mystery’
is better, but repeats oft-repeated thoughts....
H.E.W.: Futile stuff; the last few lines prove
its insincerity... .D.W.C.: Too anatomical.
I.M.M.: Your weakest to date... .A.A.:
Neither comes within shooting distance—
B.F.: Doesn’t get the effect you aim at.
Sorenson is an unreal character N.B.:
Merited a second reading, but didn’t quite
reach publication standard. Also rather
lengthy D.D.D.: Try a woman’s paper....
J.F.K.: No; you are back in your old story-
bookish vein again Opal Lynn: Not suit-
able J.A.T.: Didn’t tickle our funnybone.
O.W.: Nor did yours... .T.K.: Far too
psychological... .B.M.N.Z.: An amusing inci-
dent, but not quite suitable... .F.T.: No B.O.
yarns, please.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B.M.: What is it —a battle between an
octopus and a dinotherium? .... W.K.: A
whiskered gag and an atrocious drawing—
L.S.: No chance for the old chap with one
arm and a club foot... .F.R.: That freak style
won’t carry you far... .P.S.W.: A London
bobby made that crusted retort in “Punch.
E.T.: Still in the kindergarten stage....
V.G.: Test-cricket cartoon a trifle belated...-
J.B.C.: The profane parachute-jumper landed
in the w.p.b N.G.H.: Not even an odd
corner for it to fill... .S.J.M.: Not a master-
piece, yet far from the week’s worst P.T- :
Your draught horse is harnessed to a trotting
sulky... .C.C.: No cheque for the lopsided
salesman with the waspish tongue H.B.:
Copy another man’s work for practice if you
like, but don’t send the results to us W.S.:
Sometimes we doubt whether the shark is a
worse pest than the amateur artist who spread
himself on the subject G.A.F.: You belong
to the hit-or-miss school R.D.: Can’t you
think of anything fresh? E.C.: You’re no
artist... .R.M.L.: Suggest that you learn some-
thing about perspective C.H.: A clean shoe
of paper would have stood as much change
T.S.S. : There are four variations of that
gag—all terribly old N.F.: Is it a strande
porpoise or a seaside landlady bathing?. •••
D.K.: Good old Jew and kerosene-in-the-ntf-
extinguisher jest....A.T.F.: Jokes lack cn.\.
ness, and drawings splotchy and smudgy.
L.C.: Has some good points. Has more ph-
ones. .. .J.S.D.: Linework weak and hesitating.
and the poses are stiff E.J.P.: H nis! ?
among the also-rans N.N.: Refuse %
lieve that dusky chap with tomahawk is *•*
Australian aboriginal.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lurch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DißECTons—James Love Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton. Esq.; Wm. A Jolly, Esq C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN. .
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 06
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia W°iid,. this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
ę
Information Sought.
(1) What Australian cricketers ( pre-war vin-
tage) began Tests with a “duck” ? (2) What
Australians got two “ducks” in a Test in the
pre-war period ? —l4O.
(1) J. Hodges and E. Gregory, at Melbourne,
1877; R. Pope, P. Marr and W. R. Robertson,
at Melbourne, 1885 ; F. J. Burton, at Sydney,
1887; Harry Trott, at Lords, 1888 ; Syd
Gregory and K. Burn, at Lords, 1890; Joe
Darling, at Sydney, 1894; J. J. Kelly, at Lords,
1896; V. Trumper, at Nottingham, 1899; J. V.
Saunders, at Sydney, 1902; A. Cotter, at
Sydney, 1904; W. J. Whitty, at Birmingham,
1909. (2) The double-“duckers” were: P. S.
McDonnell and Tom Garrett, at Sydney, 1883;
J. Blackham, at Lords, 1884; E. Evans, at
Lords, 1886; P. McShane, at Sydney, 1888;
A. Bannerman, at Lords, 1888; J. Worrall, at
Manchester, 1888; M. A. Noble and Syd
Gregory, at -Leeds, 1899; C. McLeod, at
Sydney, 1901; J. Darling and J. Kelly, at
Sheffield, 1902; H. Trumble, at Sydney, 1904;
V. Trumper, at Melbourne, 1908; J. V.
Saunders, at Melbourne, 1908; J. V. Saunders,
at Sydney, 1908; J. W. McLaren, at Sydney,
1912.
* * * *
Date of birth and birthplace of the follow-
ing cricketers : (1) Bradman, (2) Woodfull, (3)
Ponsford, (4) Vic Richardson, (5) Oldfield and
(6) O’Reilly 7—139.
(1) Born August 27, 1908, Cootamundra
(N.S.W.). (2) Born August 22, 1897, Maldon
(Vic.). (3) Born October 19, 1900, North
Fitzroy (Vic.). (4) Born September 7, 1894,
Unley (S.A.). (5) Born September 9, 1896,
Sydney. (6) Born December 20, 1905, White
Cliffs (N.S.W.).
* * * *
What were the checking points in the
Centenary Air Race, with the distances between
each, the times of arrival of Scott and Black
at each such point, and the total time taken
by the airmen during the race ? Also, the
distances between the non-compulsory stopping-
places ? —9900.
Compulsory stops: Bagdad, 2553 miles—
Scott arrived at 9 p.m., 14£ hours after leav-
ing Mildenhall; Allahabad, 2300 miles —2.48
p.m.; Singapore, 2210 miles —5.43 a.m.;
Darwin, 2084 miles —8.38 p.m.; Charleville,
1389 miles —10 a.m.; Melbourne, 787 miles —
3.34 p.m. on October 23, 1934, 71 hours 48
seconds after leaving England; aggregate dis-
tance flown, 11,323 miles. Distances between
optional stopping-places: London to Mar-
seilles, 615 miles; Marseilles-Rome, 384; Rome-
Athens, 654; Athens-Aleppo, 751; Aleppo-
Bagdad, 450; Bagdad-Bushire, 486; Bushire-
Jask, 501; Jask-Karachi, 590; Karachi-
Jodhpur, 398; Jodhpur-Allahabad, 542; Allaha-
bad-Calcutta, 639; Calcutta-Rangoon, 639;
Rangoon-Bangkok, 362; Bangkok-Alor Star,
542; Alor Star-Singapore, 410; Singapore-
Batavia, 570; Batavia-Bambang, 682; Bam-
bang-Koepang, 495; Koepang-Darwin, 511;
Darwin-Newcastle Waters, 384; Newcastle
Waters-Cloncurry, 514; Cloncurry-Charleville,
536; Charleville-Narromine, 420; Narromine-
Melboume, 425.
(1) Best books on the subject of aerial navi-
gation, and where obtainable ? (2) Instruments
necessary to such study, and their cost ? (3)
Did Harold Gatty introduce some new methods
of navigation; if so, where can details of his
methods be obtained ? —9927.
(1) If tuition is entirely dependent on books,
the following would be necessary: British-
Manual of Air Pilotage and Manual of Air
Navigation; Peck’s Elementary Meteorology;
R.A.F. Handbook Supplement. American —
Air Navigation (Weems), all obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, or McGill’s
Agency, 183 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, Cl.
(2) 360 deg. celluloid protractor, 12in. boxwood
ruler with mm. and inch divisions; exercise
books, plain and graphed. (3) The shortest
method in use to-day is Weems’ Star Curves
from which position can be determined from
two stars in about three minutes. At present
its scope is limited to Northern Hemisphere.
Gatty, in collaboration with Weems, has pro-
duced several D.R. instruments, and more than
likely assisted Weems in computations with
star curves. All are explained in Weems’s Air
Navigation.
* * * *
(1) Is it a fact that Peter Lalor, after being
wounded in the Eureka Stockade fight, was
concealed and nursed back to health by his
sweetheart, Miss Dunn ? (2) Did he eventually
marry her ? (3) Also, is there any record of
an interview between Peter Lalor and the then
Governor, Sir Charles Hotham ? —9629.
(1) Lalor, who had been wounded in the left
arm, was hidden by some of his fellow-insur-
gents under some timber, and when the coast
was clear was assisted to make his escape on
horseback. He was hidden and cared for by
friends for a while, and later taken to the
home of his betrothed, Miss Dunn, in Moor-
abool-street, Geelong, who nursed him back to
health. (2) Yes. (3) There is no record of
Lalor ever having met Sir Charles Hotham
prior to the outbreak. Three representatives pf
the miners journeyed to Melbourne and, in an
interview with the Governor, endeavored to
secure the release of the men imprisoned as a
result of the burning of Bentley’s Hotel, but
Lalor was not one of them. He had little to
do with the leadership until a few days before
the outbreak.
4*
Where can I find a picture of the armor
worn by Ned Kelly? —976l.
In Origin and Destruction of the Kelly Gang
(Hunter). The armor was made out of plough-
shares.
* * * *
To whom is the Distinguished Service Cross
awarded, and who have been Australian re-
cipients ? —143.
This is a naval decoration, and was instituted
in June, 1901 (as the Conspicuous Service
Cross). Since October, 1914, it has been
awarded for services, before the enemy to naval
officers below the rank of lieutenant-com-
manders, and to warrant-officers and acting-
warrant-officers. Australian recipients are
Major B. C. Bell, Air-Commodore S. J.
Goble and Commander L. F. Robinson.
* * * *
(1) How long did the “Afternoon Telegram,”
published by the owners of the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” about 60 years ago, last ? (2)
What was the reason for its demise? —118.
(1) The first number was issued on Monday,
January 3, 1870, and the last number (No. 101)
on April 30, 1870. It cost Id., and consisted
of four pages of six columns each. (2) No
reason was assigned for the sad act, but on
many occasions the advertising matter did not
exceed a third of a column.
* * * *
Brief particulars about Dorothy Cottrell, the
novelist ? —4O.
She was born at Picton (N.S.W.), and is the
daughter of Walter Barwon Wilkinson. She
was educated by governesses, and had a course
of study at the Royal Art Society of N.S.W.,
where she became head student in black-and-
white work. Her two books. The Singing Gold,
a story of Queensland station life, and Earth
Battle, same setting, have had very high praise
in Australia and America. She now resides
in California.
* * * *
Number of breadwinners in Australia at the
last census, and industrial divisions in which
they were engaged ? —49.
The number was 2,697,127, and they were
employed as follows: Agricultural, pastoral
and dairy pursuits, 547,750; manufacturing,
541,153; commerce and finance, 451,392;
professions, 256,762; transport, 222,893 ; con-
struction, 232,380; mining, forestry, fishing,
etc., 109,081; and domestic work and unspeci-
fied occupations, 355,716.
* * * *
(1) Do Lakes Torrens, Frome, Eyre, Gard-
ner, Amadeus, Macdonald and. Maurice in
Centralia contain water permanently ? (2)
If not, which ones do ? (3) Are all salt lakes ?
(4) Do any sections of the Finke and Palmer
rivers contain permanent water ? (5) Is it pos-
sible to travel, per car, from Alice Springs to
Lake Macdonald, passing Ayre’s Rock and
Mount Olga en route ? (6) Is there any white
settlement in the area mentioned ? (7) Would
a light car (20-23 cwt.) towing a trailer have
any chance of crossing the Depot Sandhills ?
(8) What is the population of Kangaroo Island
S./4. ? —8482.
(1), (2) and (3) Torrens and Gairdner are
salt, and partly dry in summer. Frome and
Eyre are salt, but fresh during floods. Occa-
sionally they are dry. Amadeus is salt, and
partly dry in summer. Macdonald is practi-
cally a large salt claypan. It contains water
after heavy rains. No information is avail-
able concerning Maurice. (4) So far as is
known there are no permanent waterholes in the
Palmer River, but there are a few in the Finke
River. Some are salt and some fresh. (5),
(6) and (7) No. (8) The island is divided
into two sections controlled by councils —
Dudley contains 94 dwellings and a population
of 182 males and 154 females; Kingscote con-
tains 201 dwellings and a population of 473
males and 376 females. The total population
of the island is 1185.
* * * * *
(1) Train fare from Longreach to Brisbane
second class ? (2) Steamer fares from Brisbane
to Melbourne second and third class ? (3)
Details of ordinary sailings ? —9946.
(1) £3 Bs., plus 11s. for sleeping berth. (2)
Second class £5 155., third class £4 ss. (3)
Vessels leave Brisbane for Melbourne each
Tuesday • and Saturday, strikes permitting.
Second class is available on the Manoora,
Duntroon, Manunda, and second and third
class on the Katoomba, Canberra and Karoola.
The Westralia carries first and third class only.
The time of departure from Brisbane varies
from noon to 5 p.m.
# * =K *
Rate of pay per day of privates belonging to
the following armies during the Great War:
(1) Australian, (2) Maori land, (3) American,
(4) Canadian and (5) British ? —57.
(1) 6s. (2) ss. (3) Ordinary 4s. 7d., first-
class ss. Id. (4) 4s. 7d. (5) Is. 6d.
* * * *
Tariffs for overseas telephone calls from Aus-
tralia to England, Europe, America and M.L. ?
160.
The charge for a call to Great Britain is £2
per minute, with a minimum of £6. For other
European countries the fee is slightly higher.
The tariff for a call to the U.S.A. varies from
£3 to £3 12s. per minute, with a minimum
charge ranging from £9 to £lO 165., according
to locality. A call to M.L. is charged at the
rate of £1 per minute, with a minimum of £3.
For a call other than to M.L. and Java a
surcharge of Is. 6d. in the pound, assessed on
the total cost of the call, is made to cover
exchange.
* * * *
List of books of versa written by A. F. M.
Mullens (“Arthur Macquarie”), with dates of
publication ? —132.
Aurelia (1900), The Dance of Olives (1905),
The Wheel of Life (1909), Fioralisa (1910), The
Days of the Magnificent (1911), The Happy
Kingdom (1913), A Rhapsody for Lovers
(1914), The Meaning of Love (1915).
* * * *
(1) Net immigration to Australia for the
periods (a) 1921-25 and (b) 1926-30 ? (2) Per-
centage of unemployed in reporting trade
unions in the Commonwealth, N.S.W., Vic.
and Queensland for the years 1930, *3l, ’32,
’33 and ’34 ?— 126.
(1) (a) 183,543, (b) 130,058. (2) 1930: Com-
monwealth, 19.3; N.S.W., 21.7; Vic., 18.3;
Queensland, 10.7. 1931: Commonwealth,
27.4; N.S.W., 30.8; Vic., 25.8; Queensland,
16.2. 1932: Commonwealth, 29.0; N.S.W.,
32.5; Vic., 26.5; Queensland, 18.8. 1933:
Commonwealth, 25.1; N.S.W., 28.9; Vic.,
22.3; Queensland, 15.3. 1934: Common-
wealth, 20.5; N.S.W., 24.7; Vic., 17.4; Queens-
land, 11.7.
* * * *
What is rack-a-rock, and into what oil is it
dipped to convert it into an explosive ? —9978.
The explosive consists of cartridges of potas-
sium chlorate, which are dipped, just before
use, into a combustible oil, usually nitro-
benzine, or “dead oil,” which consists chiefly
of hydrocarbons from coal-tar, or a mixture of
the two. The cartridges are enclosed in small
cotton bags; before use these are placed in
a wire basket suspended from a spring balance
and dipped into a pail containing the liquid
until a quarter to a third of the weight of
the chlorate has been taken up.
* * * *
Meaning of terms ‘‘flash point” and ‘‘burning
point” as applied to gasoline-engine oils?— 4l.
The best engine oils generate very little gas
at ordinary temperatures, but at high tem-
peratures around, say, 500 deg. Fahr. sufficient
gas is generated to enable it to be ignited for
a short flash by open flame. This is called the
“flash point.” If the heat temperature is again
raised to, say, 550 deg. Fahr. and flame applied,
the gas is generated so rapidly as to cause it
to burn until the oil is all consumed. This is
termed “burning point.”
* - * * *
Ingredients of invisible, or sympathetic, ink,
and how used ? —36.
(a) Cobalt chloride 40gr., mucilage of acacia
20min., distilled water to 1 fl. oz. Write with
a quill pen and allow writing to dry. The
writing becomes visible on warming the paper.
(b) Potassium ferrocyanide 20gr., distilled water
1 fl. oz. To render the writing visible, damp
with a solution of ferric chloride, (c) Lead
acetate 30gr., distilled water 1 fl. oz. The
writing becomes visible on exposing the paper
to the fumes of sulphuretted hydrogen.
* * * *
(1) How to make a kiln for burning small
quantities of limestone ? (2) Difference be-
tween dark and light limestone ? (3) Name of
book on subject ? —9965.
(1) For small quantities a kiln may be dis-
pensed with. Excavate about 10ft. into the
side of a bank or hill, making the sides of
the excavation act as three sides of the kiln,
and lay 18in. of timber on the bottom, fol-
lowed by 18in. of limestone, filling the exca-
vation With alternate layers of wood and lime-
stone. To every ton of wood two tons of
limestone is required. - The pile is covered
with earth, leaving an opening at the top and
one at the base of the kiln. Light the timber
at the bottom. The lime so produced is good
enough for agricultural purposes. (2) Practi-
cally none, save that the lighter color is slightly
purer. (3) The Farmer’s Handbook (Depart-
ment of Agriculture, N.S.W.), 10s. 6d.
Does Anybody Know?
Biographical details concerning Tom Durkin,
early Bulletin cartoonist? —51.
Brief Answers.
R.D.: Write the Pharmacy Board of N. S.
Wales, Science House, 157 Glouc'ester-street,
Sydney G.R.G.: (1) From Kodak (A/asia),
379 George-street, Sydney; 38s. 6d. (2) Method
in general use consists of touching the object
with a glass stopper wetted with nitric acid,
which leaves the gold untouched, but colors
base alloys blue from the formation of nitrate
of copper... .C.D.8.: The Golden City made
three voyages to Moreton Bay, arriving on
February 28, 1863 ; January 4, 1865; and
January 24, 1866. If the name of the child
were forwarded, it may be possible to ascertain
on which voyage it arrived E.M.N.: An ink
suitable for writing on glass may be made by
dissolving pale shellac 20z., Venice turpentine
loz., sandaroc -}oz., oil of turpentine 3oz.
Dissolve by gentle heat and add £oz. of lamp-
black. For blue ink use powdered ultramarine,
and for green, Brunswick green W.T.: To
clean and revive the colors of Turkish carpets
make a paste of ammonium carbonate 20z.,
fuller's-earth |oz., Castile soap 40z., ox-gall
\oz. Allow to dry into a soap, and use with
warm water, with sponge or flannel... .M.J.:
“Grocers’ Advocate and Provision Trader,” 56
Hunter-street, Sydney, and “The Australasian
Grocer,” 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne....
P.A.8.: (1) and (2) Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6
Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London. (3)
Good chance if up to publication level. (4)
Higher local wages and operating costs, freight
and tariff on paper, exchange and small market.
F.E.: (1) Napier, Gardiner and Co., 79 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (2) and (3) Curtis Brown, Ltd.,
6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London
A. 8.: (1) A fine pasteboard made with a
smooth but usually unglazed surface. (2) Send
them flat-packed between cardboard. (3) Can
be sent in open envelope for Id. for 2oz. if
marked “MS. 0n1y”.... 8.F.: Get in touch
with Howard Smith, Ltd., 269 George-street,
Sydney... .J. 8.: In 68 Test match innings
M. A. Noble scored 1905 runs, an average of
30.72; in Sheffield Shield matches he scored
4976 runs at an average of 65.81 J.T.: The
bank note is worth only its face value; it has
no collector’s value R.G.: Write J. C.
Ludowici and Son, 117 York-street, and Man-
grovite Belting, Ltd., 49 York-street—both
Sydney....L.M.B.: (1) and (2) Write A. E.
Smith and Co., 9 Hunter-street, Sydney. (3)
Write Director, N.S.W. Art Gallery, The
Domain, Sydney E.L.: Yes. It is required
by the Customs Department, Brisbane, before
a passport could be issued. The same at all
other Australian ports E.W.C.: It was
erected as a memorial to the pioneers of the
district. Verses by Jack Moses supplied the
idea of the monument J.H.: Yes, A. G.
Hales is still living. He has resided in England
since about 1900 A.A.: The Cosmos Com-
mercial Co., Eastern Traders, 382 b Pitt-street,
make a specialty of this line; but most of
the large retail firms in Sydney import directly
from Asia, and it may suit you better to com-
municate with one of them A.V.N.: (1)
Not necessary, but helpful. (2) No. (3)
Ye5....F.8.: (1) Depends on whether there
is a patent on the article. If not, the answer
is “no.” (2) Can’t say without knowing what
the article i 5.... M.Met.: Obtainable from
N. Bookstall Co., corner Castlereagh and
Market streets, Is. 6d., postage 3d
J.8.W.: Consult Modern Methods in Dry-
cleaning, available at the N.S.W. Public Library,
Sydney... .A.R.A.: Strength and physique can
be improved by physical culture —class or team
exercise is best. See Strength and How to
Obtain It, by Sandow. Required address is
192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. There is no
Melbourne office; inter-State tuition is by post.
E.G.P.: Inquire at any public hospital.
Any doctor will arrange for plastic treatment at
Sydney or R. P. Alfred hospitals (skin dept.),
if necessary... .A.J.G.: Have X-ray to decide
local condition as preliminary to completion of
work. Two to three months is the usual period
allowed. Free process or bone formation would
cause irritation if present A.L.: (1) Direc-
tions for the preparation of shark skins for
market are obtainable from the Technological
Museum, Sydney. (2) The skin of young sharks
has some commercial value, though not as
great as that of larger sharks. (3) Australian
tanners will not undertake, the tanning of
shark hide unless they can be guaranteed
regular supplies. Salted hides will be pur-
chased by Culverwell, Brooks and Co., 59
Mark-lane, London, E.C.3 A.M.M.T.: (1)
Inquire at the Technical College, Harris-street,
Ultimo, also at professional studios. (2) Can
give no indication of cost. (3) Depends how
far you wish to proceed with the various
photographic processes and technique
C.M.S.: Paul and Gray, Eagle-street, Bris-
bane, handle yacht fittings... .J.G.D.: There
are 19 cities in the world with populations
greater than that of Sydney (1,235,000). Lon-
don (8,202,818) and New York (6,930,446) top
the list S.T.: Write Secretary, Air Board,
Defence Department, Melbourne... .J.M.:
Sarah Bernhardt made her first appearance in
Sydney at Her Majesty’s Theatre on July 8,
1891, in “La Dame aux Camelias.” She also
appeared in “Frou-Frou,” “Cleopatre,”
“Fedora,” “Jean d’Arc,” “Pauline Blanchard”
and other plays D.C.C.: (1) Write Secre-
tary, Australian Journalists’ Association. 5
Hamilton-street, Sydney. (2) Copyright Office,
Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place,
Sydney... .W.W.: Fox Film Corp., 444 West-
56th-street; Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Corp., 1540
Broadway; Paramount Pictures, 1501 Broad-
way; Warner Bros., First National Pictures,
321 West 44th-street; R.K.O. Corp., 1560
Broadway—all New York, N.Y., U.S.A
R.C.F.: Owen Aves, 27a Bedford Chambers,
King-street, Covent Garden, W.C.2; Byron
Studios, 8 Farrington-avenue, E.C.4; Francis
and Mills, Granville House, Arundel-street,
W.C.2; and Rogers and Co., 8 Bishop’s Court,
Chancery-lane, W.C.2 —all London H.R.:
Federal Minister T. W. White served in Meso-
potamia during the war with the Aust. Flying
Corps. He was captured by the Turks near
Bagdad in Nov., 1915, and escaped via Russia
in August, 1918... .N.D.: The line “Where-
fore they washed their horses in Vesta’s holy
well” is from Macaulay’s “Battle of Lake
Regillus” (Many others mailed.)


4 NO VELS FOR 5/-
or 9 for 10/6
POST FREE.
A limited number of Endeavour Press novels which have
become slightly soiled in the store are now made available
to BULLETIN readers at bargain prices. The usual price of
these is 5/- and 6/? each.
Your choice of Four of the following
for 5/-, post free.
“SATURDEE” Norman Lindsay
BRING THE MONKEY Miles Franklin
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK Vera Dwyer
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY, Charles Channel
JONAH Louis Stone
THE SOW’S EAR Bernard Cronin
NIGHTS ASHORE . Captain Jack Hamilton
THE DOUGHMAN Robt. Desmond Tate
STORIES BY “KODAK”
Mark the books you require and post the list, together with
postal note, to
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
qA CLUSTER of BEES
by
TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
Specimen Plate from “A Cluster of Bees.”
STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF MEROGLOSSA.
Wm.
§§si
j 2
S M
s s
BUTONPaYMeNT 1
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward to me cop of A Cluster of
Bees,” by Tarlton Ray merit, for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Walkabout”: Cacelots (B. 1/1 /’36)
were introduced at the outset of the Sinai
campaign, and only those unfortunates
who had to suffer a ride in one would
know of the torture inflicted on the
wounded. During an all-night journey
from Bir-el-abd to railhead, several in the
convoy died en route, and the rest of
us —about 150 head —might have been
the guests of Abdul for the duration had
it not been for “Hellfire” Jack Royston
and his staff coming along opportunely.
Our Tommy A.M.C. escorts had been
heading for the Turkish lines ; too strong
in. the right foot evidently, the Tommy
corporal in charge had wheeled right
round during the night. Not even “Bull”
Ryrie’s best efforts could have been
more entertaining to depressed souls than
the liquid-fire adjectives hurled by Roy-
ston at that bushed choom corporal.
# * * *
“Splash”: The International Amateur
Athletic Federation is to take over con-
trol of girl athletes the world over. The
ladies are agreeable, though the present
governing body for women, which abides
in France, insists that a condition pre-
cedent be the inclusion in the Olympic
Games programme of the 17 events com-
prising the Women’s World Games. This
body, by the way, carries the title
“Federation Sportive Feminine Inter-
nationale.”
* * « %
“Comrade”: In view of the fact that
a Bolshie football team may be in Aus-
tralia next season, it is interesting to read
of a match between a French club and
one from Moscow in Paris. The home
side won 2-1. A mass attendance of
Communists —estimated at 15,000 out of
20,000 —kept a large force of police busy
calming exuberant spirits. The ground
authorities had been notified that the
crowd would burst into “The Red Flag”
when the visitors stepped on the field.
At that moment they turned on the
daddy of all loudspeakers with the march
from “Aida,” a particularly brassy work.
It lasted until “The Red Flag” was struck.
* . $ * *
“Red and Blue”: Brisbane naturalists
have been considering a rare parrot
brought down from Cape York penin-
sula. The bird is as big as a corella,
the female being crimson and blue, while
her husband wears the green only. Their
owner says he has been forty years try-
ing to get a specimen. If he had gone
over the way to Papua, he could have
collected bags of them, especially in the
north-east. The bird is also common in
New Guinea and Bougainville, though
this is the first time I ever heard
of one being found in Australia. The
birds are said to speak well. A pair
the writer owned on the Mambare re-
fused to talk at all. Every few seconds
throughout the day the green one would
say “S-q-u-e-e-k,” and the missus would
reply “S-q-u-a-w-k.” I had a mate who
suffered much from fever, and so I was
not surprised when I returned from a
journey to find both birds had vanished.
I’ve often meant to ask him if the soup
turned out any good.
$ * * *
“Greenhide”: A Chinese revolutionary
was waiting in the opposition war-lord’s
dungeon for a firing squad, as there was
no pressing need to shoot him out of
hand. A Yale graduate, he became im-
mersed in a serial running in a Yankee rag
in Shanghai, and wrote to the pub-
lishers to learn how the yarn ended. As
the staff scribe hadn’t finished writing it,
they couldn’t oblige, but they agreeably
sent the author out to expand his synopsis
to the condemned man. On the return trip
both writer and manuscript fell into the
hands of brigands, and the unfortunate
scribbler lost his papers and his memory
before he was ransomed. Consequently
the Chinese, duly executed by this time,
was the only one in the know, and he
wouldn’t cough up, even when the
rattled editors had a crack at him with
a ouija board.
$ $ # *
“Kwakprak”: Add to “G.P.’s” (B.
18/12/’35) list of doctors who have done
good work in lines other than pill-der-
vishing Dr. Peter Mark Roget, who com-
piled the Thesaurus. Born in London
in 1779, he graduated at Edinburgh, and
at 61 began the job. It took him 12
years. His son edited subsequent addi-
tions. The copyright must be still very
valuable—crossword-puzzle fiends have
given sales a tremendous impetus in the
last 20 years. As Norman Lindsay sang
in a year gone by: “O, Peter Mark, I
must, shall or will say that your book,
work, volume, tome or opuscule is one
of the most pleasing or entertaining that
I keep in my house, shanty or hovel.”


FOR RANDWICK.
Bondi Handicap: Fireman; next,
Heroina.
Challenge Stakes: Heritor, 1 ;
Heroic Faith, 2 ; Palm, 3.
January Handicap: Dulcedo
next, Flamari.
Paddington Handicap: Tingalba
next, Babili.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Cereza;
next, Valsard.
Anniversary Handicap: Curator,
1 ; Vice-Royal, 2 ; Miss Nottava, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Eclipse Handicap: Multudo ; next,
Titanium.
Ascot Handicap: Petau; next,
Art.
Federation Handicap: Nissa:
next, Gold Tier.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There was no racing in any Australian
city on Saturday. The Challenge Stakes
will be run at Randwick to-day and the
Anniversary Handicap next Saturday.
Postponement of the Moonee Valley
meeting means that the club will have
the right to race on a date to be
arranged, but if none can be fitted in it
won’t worry. It is a genuine amateur
body, and not averse from making
sacrifices. s
* * . * *
“S. Gumm”: Many were the expres-
sions of disgust when the club at
Gosford raced on the day N. S. Wales
learned of King George’s death. Cer-
tainly the horse-trains had left Sydney—
which supplies Gosford with 99 p.c. of
its fields, owners, trainers, jockeys and
bookmakers—before his Majesty breathed
his last; but in much the same circum-
stances the Kilmore (Vic.) club called its
meeting off. I read that on the follow-
ing day the Brisbane Amateur Turf
Club (spell it out, printer!) put on “a
marathon programme of ten races at
Albion Park.” This is the concern that
bought its business from John Wren and
Ben Nathan on exceedingly long terms.
Nathan is dead in Melbourne, leaving
estate valued at £1,087,903, and not a
penny for charity.
* * *
Marabou is doing capital work at
Epsom (Vic.), but C. B. Kellow’s other
Melbourne Cup winner, Hall Mark, has
gone muscle-sore, and Holt is taking
things easy with him. It will be a pity
if the game little chestnut has to be with-
drawn from autumn engagements, though
at the moment this doesn’t seem likely.
He has been nominated for the New-
market, the Australian Cup, the Don-
caster and the Sydney Cup, as well as
a heap of w.f.a. races.
* * * *
George Davis has been appointed han-
dicapper to the Moonee Valley (Vic.)
club, at £750 p.a. He is a son of J. H.
Davis, the handicapper at Flemington ;
with its roots in Gippsland, the family
- ---- ----- 11
has been associated with the turf for
generations. The late George Davis,
M.L.C., won the Grand National Hurdle
of 1893 with Tim Swiveller, and in the
spring of that year Tim Swiveller led
home a Caulfield Cup field. A protest
for interference was dismissed on the
course, but an appeal on behalf of the
second horse, Sainfoin, proved success-
ful. Davis had stood to win a lot of
money oyer Tim Swiveller, and he took
the decision of the V.R.C. stewards very
much to heart.. J. H. Davis, who trained
Tim Swiveller for his father, had won
the Newmarket Handicap earlier in the
year with his own neddy, Fortunatus.
J.H. became V.R.C. handicapp.er.in suc-
cession to the late Dr. W. H. Lang.
* * * *
Peter Pan is not going to be over-
exerted in his last season on the turf.
He is certain to get close to list, in the
Sydney Cup, and perhaps the King’s Cup
in Adelaide will witness his farewell to
racing. There is small chance of his
contesting weight-for-age events at Caul-
field or Flemington.
* * * *
Young Idea has been nominated for
the Newmarket. Trainer Fred Foulsham
always doubted the colt’s ability to stay
—he carries his head too high.
* * % $
Unbeaten Fidelity is doing a good pre-
paration at Randwick for her Victorian
engagements. Gold Rod and Ilium are
also getting ready for the south. Gold
Rod won the Breeders’ Plate, but his
stocks slumped when he could run only
third to Bonnie Legion in the Decem-
ber Stakes. Still, many Sydney people
are confident that he will beat Fidelity
at their first meeting.
s*♦ . ♦ _
When Nabob won the Farm Novice at
Warwick Farm his size started argu-
ments. He was measured, and went
under the stick at 14.3. His sire, Red
Gauntlet, was a giant, over 17 hands,
while his dam is a big mare. Unnamed
and never raced, she is by Linacre King,
who stood well over 16 hands. Nabob is
housed in the box once used by Winooka.
* * * *
. Knox, who will ride Curator in the
A.J.C. Anniversary Handicap, scored on
Satmoth in 1932 and on Topical in 1933.
He has a big following, particularly
among tote punters, and Curator is pretty
sure to be favorite. He has done well
since winning at Warwick Farm, and
should not be troubled by the distance, a
mile and a half.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Neil McKenna won
the Australian Hurdle Race with Six-
teen Annas. This year the chestnut is
to be reserved for the Grand National.
In the Easter jumping races at Randwick
McKenna will be represented by Fox-
like, Napacre, Delwood and Souter
Johnnie ; and one or more may go to
Victoria with Sixteen Annas.
* * * *
Weights for the Newmarket are to be
declared on Monday, as well as those
for the Oakleigh Plate. Arachne had
Bst. 111 b. in the Plate last year and Bst.
91b. in the Newmarket. Four-year-old
mares that won the Newmarket were
Aspen (6st. 81b.), Wild Rose (Bst. lib.),
Laundress (7st. 91b.), Wakeful (7st. 61b.),
Red Dome (7st. 101 b.) and Lady Linden
(Bst. 41b.). If Arachne was rated good
enough to carry Bst. 91b. as a three-
year-old she must figure farther up in
the weights now. On double charts sent
out by a leading Melbourne bookmaker
before Arachne scored at Caulfield she
was accorded less prominence than
Garrio, King’s Head, Valiant Chief and
Young Idea. There has been an amend-
ment of the quotes since; Arachne is
now a popular fancy.
* * * *
Offspring of Limond still bring sub-
stantial prices, though it is 13 years since
Limerick, Limond’s best son, was foaled.
At Trentham (M.L.) yearling sales 1200
guineas was given by W. H. Gaisford
for a colt by Limond —Homage, 525
guineas for a filly by Limond —Drax and
500 guineas for a colt by Limond—
Drastic. J. T. Jamieson, now “on the
ice,” was among the buyers; he went to
800 guineas for a Chief Ruler—
Prestige colt, but had to pay only
180 guineas for a colt by Nightmarch—
Jester. Another Nightmarch youngster,
a filly out of Precious, was knocked
down at 60 guineas to Goldsbrough
Mort’s Adelaide branch. Nightmarch is
a beautiful horse, and should produce
good stock. Apparently Maorilanders
share with Australians the irrational
prejudice against home-bred sires, though.
in Australia much of it has disappeared
since Heroic and Windbag made good at
the stud.
* * * *
“Down-the-line” clubs that cater for
squibs and give small prizes are treated
with excessive consideration by the Syd-
ney Government, whose racing legisla-
tion has been a monument of imbecility.
One of these enterprises recently changed
hands, and others are in the market,
licenses thrown in. A license is in effect
a charter of exemption from the laws
against gambling. When a concern to
which one has been granted ceases to
carry on business, the license should
revert to the State. The permitted traffic
in these licenses contrasts absurdly with
efforts of the Sydney Government to put
down “spot-dances” and the like.
* * * *
“Tuart”: An old Sydney newspaper-
man is tremendously down on starting-
price betting, and is positive that, if
appointed a temporary dictator, he could
knock it out of time in one act. “These
punters, as you call them,” he says, “all
depend upon the ‘Herald’ for starting-
price information. Stop the ‘Herald’ pub-
lishing it and you stop s.-p. betting.” How
ineffectual the expedient would be was
illustrated in the case of Naylor and
others, charged after an interval of nine
months (due to doubts about the validity,
of the Wireless Telegraphy Act) with hav-
ing sent messages from Rosehill race-
course. A mechanic was caught with a
transmitting set strapped to his body.
Outside the fence were receiving and
broadcasting outfits which were taking
the information and passing it on.
Naylor and the mechanic were fined a
fiver apiece and two assistant's forty
shillings. Deterrent penalties? Presum-
ably the magistrate thought so.
* * * *
“Becher”: That thousand-times-re-
iterated jibe at Kipling for writing about
a fictitious Melbourne race as the Mary-
byrnong Cup (B. 22/1/’36) makes me ill.
Why on earth shouldn’t he create a race
of that name for the purposes of his
story and make it a steeplechase? Prob-
ably he know as well as his inflated
critics that the race is a Plate for young-
sters, but if he had made it so, and thus
identified it, there was fine material for
a libel action. Also he must have known
that the smash occurred in a flat race—
Grace Darling’s Caulfield Cup—but here
again identification was not desirable. As
to the lynching of the stewards because
of the log fences of those days, two
or three men who have ridden over
Aintree and Cheltenham have told the
writer that they would not tackle them
for all the rice in China.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Add Picaro (Perth Cup),
Yaringa (W.A.T.C. Strickland Stakes and
C. B. Cox Stakes and third in Perth
Cup) and Balkan Prince (W.A.T.C.
Imperial Stakes) to the list of three-
year-olds that have distinguished them-
selves in open company this year. It
includes Palfresco (Caulfield Cup),
Garrio (W. S. Cox Plate and Williams-
town Cup), Young Idea (Underwood and
Sir Herbert Maitland Stakes), Valiant
Chief (Superior and Quality Handicaps
and Linlithgow Stakes) and Feldspar
(Caulfield Stakes); and it would assuredly
have been added to if The Trump, The
Chanter and Hadrian had fulfilled their
spring engagements, and if Palfresco and
Young Idea hadn’t been out of action
after the Victoria Derby. A correspon-
dent has mentioned that The Bulletin,
writing on August 7, said that “last
season’s two-year-olds looked good” to
it, and that “the best of them will give
no end of trouble to the older brigade,
Peter Pan perhaps excepted, in the
spring and autumn.” I should like to
know what The Bulletin thinks of the
present season’s two-year-olds. [Not
much so far, but it is rather early to
judge.]
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Onkaparinga (S.A.) Club is
making its Great Eastern Steeple worth
£3250 for the centenary meeting on
Easter Monday—its only race-day in the
year. It has altered its fences to conform
with the new style on other courses,
except that it keeps the fallen-tree jump.
In fact, the silver trophy that goes with
the stakes will this year depict that
famous obstacle. The club announces
a revenue for the year of £II,OOO, a profit
of £IOOO, and a well-invested credit
balance of £IB,OOO.
* * * *
From “Old Reporter”:
Harold Brewer (B. 8/1/’36) confuses trotters
with hoppled pacers; perhaps he doesn’t know
the difference. The hoppled pacer monopolises
90 p.c. of the so-called trotting races in Aus-
tralia, and he is emphatically no utility horse.
Utility horses you see in suburban meat-, bread-
and milk-carts are trotters —never pacers.
As for breeding, Percy Miller, Harry Taylor and
A. G. Hunter bred harness horses in a big way.
They have gone out of the business, and now
breed gallopers only.
Ins and Outs
“Hampton”: Something like a cricket
record was put up in Sydney cricket by
Paddington playing in a shire match
with Ryde. In its second innings Pad-
dington had 16 hoisted for no wickets.
The whole side was out for the addition
of one run, the total being 17. The only
time I ever got into Wisden —then Lilly -
white —was in a club match in Brisbane,
which in some ways resembled this game.
Going in first with Arthur Coningham,
I refrained from scoring. So did the
rest of the side, and at the end our total
was 29 —“Coningham n.o. 29.”
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Already they are discuss-
ing England’s next cricket captain in Aus-
tralia. Allen seems to be favorite, but
there are many who think that an Aus-
tralian should not fill the job, while his
form has been far from first-class since
his operation. Also, he is 33, and a fast
bowler approaches the venerable at that
age. Wyatt has a strong following. Most
pathetic of all to those who can recall the
flood of sterling amateur players of pre-
war days is the admission by one expert
that, outside these two, there is not an
amateur in England who can be reckoned
a certainty for selection as a player.
ě


■uaii
CM
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-oumz-io>3:
JOHN HEINE
5 Y D N EY
p-r-ZOuvj»
.Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne’.
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane'
e
~Jie/xt ter -mudetjf-
s£ke. B.V.D .4dt:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
■tut
fOB
m.
tRM>t
Rtf*' 1
Bttf
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
è
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details jrom any of the following:
ADELAIDE. —Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
A UCKL AN D, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE lAJ QUEENSL AA|D BY
RAPSON &. DUTTON PTY.LTD
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“S.G.”: When the “sanctions” busi-
ness was beginning, a crate of European
boxers arrived in Sydney, consigned to
Stadiums, Ltd. Two of them were
Italians. Somebody was so nervous of
public opinion that this fact' was glossed
over while the goods were in transit. As
it happened, there was not the slightest
occasion for nervousness; the Italians
caught on at once, and proved the only
part of the consignment worth a row of
pins as boxers. They are to be kept in
Australia for matches which are sure
to draw. The French and Dutch birds
are to be sent back immediately, the
Hollander without a feather to fly with.
He lasted two rounds or so against a
second-rate coon half a stone lighter,
and was refused his share of the purse.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A Service
Department reference to the fact that
Larry Foley and “Griffo” were both
born at Sofala (N.S.W.), 24 years apart,
recalls the story, often told in Sydney
of the late ’eighties and ’nineties, that
“Griffo” was really Larry’s son. There
was no apparent physical resemblance,
and Larry’s interest in “Griffo’s” spec-
tacular rise to fistic fame was nothing
more than the interest which he took in
any really promising young fighter who
worked at the old White Horse studio.
I asked Larry once, but only got the
cryptic reply “Lissentome —all women’s
a fightin’ man’s curse, except their
mothers.” Mr. Foley was emphatically
not the kind of person upon whom to
press an undesired question, so I left it
at that.
Bert'. This looks a likelv spot"
i " \
Gier.t . Do vou -twimk. well get
SWORDPI=.H ?
SECT . ' I MODE TO l',
GeQT ' VouVE FORCiO-r To &.AJT
THE MOOVC,"
Ins and Outs
What the Australians did to the Orange
Free State at Bloemfontein was a shame.
The gentlemen from the flowery toun-
tain made 88 and 127, Test-player Vil-
joen battling bravely with 40 and 24.
(O’ErkrT 109? McCabe m)? and » won
k • • j i,
by an innings and 146. Gnmmett took
10 for 102 in the match.
_ * * ~ * , * ,
In Maonland the Maryleboners, who
were unlucky not to win the first Test,
were dashed to make a draw
of the second. The best reply M.C.C.
could make to Maoriland’s first hit of
242 was 156, Cromb taking 4-52 and
Roberts 3-33. In its second innings
M.L. bolted and closed with 3 for 229
(Kerr 105, Vivian 96). At tea-time the
All-Blacks looked home on the pig’s
back. But a struggle by the tail-enders
saw M.C.C. with three wickets to fall
at stumps, so that was that. Roberts
again came off 3 for 39.
* * * *
“Baragi”: Pataudi has stated that he
cannot captain the Indian team in Eng-
land this coming season, as intended,
111 health is pleaded, but reports say the
Nawab takes plenty of exercise, includ-
ing hours of cricket practice. The reason
may be the bitter feud between the
Hindu and Moslem cricketers. This
marred the last tour of England, and was
responsible for the refusal of many
players to turn out in the last India
match against Tarrant’s men. The Mos-
lems say if their skipper is a Hindu they
get the sticky end of everything. The
Hindus say the same of a Moslem
skipper. Why not make a precedent and
send a Briton home as skipper? A
number have played with the Indian
teams against the Australians, and there
are plenty of good enough quality.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Kippax may be looked
on as the champion hard-luck gatherer
of the past year. He was peremptorily
refused permission to go to India with
Tarrant because he was indispensable to
the Ma State eleven. After a perfunc-
tory trial N.S.W. threw him out of the
team and he remains out. He certainly
could not go south, as he advised selec-
tors early in the season, but the sentence
of “but” has applied to recent matches
played in Sydney as well. It was cruel
luck. That Indian tour would have been
a fitting reward for splendid service to
N.S.W. cricket, service which has been
acknowledged by the order of the boot.
H= * * *
“Centurion”: Some ghoul has been
digging up the record of Bradman’s
“ducks.” Since he began first-class cricket
in 1927, Bradman has played close on
200 innings in the upper strata of the
game. Nevertheless, in all those trips to
the wicket he has been sent back score-
less only eight times. Queensland has
had the honor of doing the trick twice.
Perhaps the proudest performer of the
feat would be Davies, the Cambridge
undergraduate who became immortal in
this way in 1934. They remember these
things in the Old Country. Davies is a
Welshman, and no doubt his feat has
long been enshrined in the bardic lays
to be sung at national Eisteddfods.
4= * * *
“County”: Now that practically all
the States recruit their cricket teams by
stealing from each other, isn’t it about
time that the English rule with regard to
transfers in county cricket be introduced
here? No English player, amateur or
professional, who has played for one
county can take the field for another until
the transfer is two years old. This cut
out what was a long-standing nuisance in
England and is developing into one here.
* * * *
“Rowl ’Em Oop”: Before the South
African tour commenced wiseacres were
sure the inclusion of Grimmett in the
Australian team was a grave error. The
Ancient has confounded his critics by
proving as devastating as ever. The
third Test with South Africa saw him
raise his total of Test wickets to 193
(equalling the record of Barnes): 54
against South Africa, 33 against West
Indies and 106 against England ; average,
a fraction over 25 runs. Unless some-
thing like a world catastropHfe occurs it
is a safe bet that the evergreen Clarence,
despised and rejected of M.L., N.S.W.
and Victoria until S. Aus. gave him
shelter, will be facing the Englishmen next
December.
* * * *
The death of his Majesty and the con-
sequent abandonment of the Sheffield
match between S. Aus. and N.S.W. gave
the latter a first-innings win. S.A. still
leads with 19 points, Victoria and N.S.W.
being 10 behind in second place.
—kno
The Nineteenth Hole
“Muirfield”: Jim Ferrier definitely
departs on the conquest of Britain on
February 11. Hoylake will be his first
stamping ground, and on that teaser of
a course—made much more teasing by
recent alterations—he will try to fit his
game to British courses and conditions.
His first essay in the big stuff will be in
the Scottish amateur championship at
Carnoustie. Then come the British ama-
teur championship at St. Andrews and the
British open at Hoylake. Three courses
more likely to try out the best in a
golfer could not be found in the world,
and the prayers of the congregation are
requested for the youngster’s success.
•
“Divot Digger”: Stated that Hattersley
will not accompany Jim Ferrier on his
golfing tour of Britain, on which he
embarks next month. Business claims
are in the way, and very properly these
have been put first. Hattersley gets little
golf save at week-ends, and his fine form
is the more remarkable.
“Carnoustie”: Though St. Andra’s has
not yet given it the 0.K., the new ball
designed to curb that golfing excrescence
the long drive is certain to be generally
adopted. The heavy ball and the long-
driving craze have reduced golf in the
hands of the experts to a drive and a
short iron approach—the brassey and the
other wooden clubs which called for
special skill in their use have practically
vanished in consequence. The new ball
has a thicker coat than the modern pill
and is slightly larger. Its run is com-
puted at 30 yards less for all shots. That
tested in Britain is bramble-marked, and
is 1.62 in. in diameter. As one bright
young associate writing in a Sydney
paper adds, it is 1.62 in. “each way”!
* * * *
“Lofter”: Yeerongpilly golf course,
where the Queensland championships
are to be played this year, is being re-
conditioned and lengthened, a process
which seems to be the usual thing with
courses in these days of super-driving.
A Brisbane journal, commenting on the
alterations, says that Y., etc., was Bris-
bane’s first course. The Brisbane club,
now at home at Y., etc., began life in a
humble way on a nine-hole course at
Chelmer, on the Ipswich railway line. The
place attracted attention as a desirable
res. sub., and members, getting sick of
finding some new cottage with all mod.
con. occupying a fairway that was clear
the previous week-end, migrated to their
present home.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The Australian golfers in
the U.S.A. have been notified that the
international match for the Lakes Cup
will be played at Lakewood club, Long
Beach, on February 5 and 6. The six
American players selected include Paul
Runyan, Horton Smith and Olin Dutra,
all known in fact or by repute on this
side. The open champion, Parks, is also
included in what looks a hot lot.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: It is now generally
believed that the Davis Cup authorities
will accept Norman Brookes’s proposal
for a Pacific zone. The full zone is ex-
pected to include Japan, Australia,
Maoriland, South Africa, India, Malaya,
Burma, the Philippines, China, the
Netherlands East Indies, Indo-China and
Japan. There is to be no Japanese entry
in this year’s tourney.
* * * *
“Hotham”: As expected, Turnbull has
notified the Davis Cup selectors that he
is not available for selection. A sound
utility player, he will be missed on the
courts, while it will be hard to replace
him as financial manager. The young
man is one of the steadily-increasing
band of athletes who have recognised
that it is better to emulate the frugal ant
than the frivolous grasshopper.
“Jachris”: Cochet’s tour turned out
so well that there is a move afoot to
bring out Tilden and Vines. Cummings,
who put up the best showing by an Aus-
tralian against the Frenchman, is to in-
quire what guarantee they’d want to
make the trip. They would draw well-
many people still rank Vines as the
world’s best, and Tilden seems to have
discovered the elixir of youth—if they
were to come, but there’s little likelihood
that they will. Professional tennis in the
U.S.A. apparently ranks only a little
lower than the films as a means of get-
ting rich quickly.
* sis * *
“Mari-ja”: Young Bromwich put on
a little more than tennis in Adelaide
when, “in disgust, he threw down his
racquet and broke his drinking glass."
According to one account, “the crowd
was amused.” Tennis crowds are easily
amused. Such exhibitions wouldn’t be
tolerated in other sports. It would be
useless to plead “temperament” if Brom-
ley were to hurl his bat at the pickets
after he’d gone for a duck, and Fleet-
wood-Smith would soon have the Hill
at him if he refused to bowl because
a catch had been dropped. It’s the one
(<Continued on page 38.)


SS
'S
*
IFF
Pi
!
NS
X
|W ,! |P
v4fo!e!
o
A
h
x
%
1
s5jR
mUmlzrM
w
1l
mini
> i.
Of
T~
C
i Ifj
ra
w
Mil m
fO
o
o
o
mjj irpTl ■ • '7 M\l±Jh 1
MmlMi
£yr~-n
«n
o
Hr-,
o
ffls
a
h
A
l
r,
Pi.
ML
L
] uo
r,
r
j?
fc
f
/,
O
f//TO
If,
Wm
II
I I,
Sv£>
77
1
, -
p f-rfp J i
§5
t?
V
%
y
b
**%
V:
%
ft
\
tin
I
Collins Street
MELBOURNE Cl
Phone 9010
From the very first days of its
establishment—almost 100 years ago
“Scott’s” has held a foremost posi-
tion amongst Australia’s residential
hotels, and still retains its reputation
for real comfort and efficient service.
Right through the years, progress with
the times has been “Scott’s” policy,
so that to-day sons of its original
patrons, with their wives and families,
and grandsons, too, with their wives
and families, still look to “Scott’s” as
their Mecca when visiting Melbourne.
Overseas visitors perhaps entire
strangers to Melbourne —will find in
Scott’s “The Hotel Ideal,” combining
in its modern service everything one
can possibly expect at one’s hotel.
Central situation makes
“Scott’s” convenient to
everything and everywhere.
Inclusive Tariff or
Room Only—as desired
Breakfast Luncheon Dinner
a la Carte
Telegrams & Cables:
“Scottsotel,”
Melbourne.
’Phone:
Cent. 9010.
Twelve Lines.
ENJOY £ APPRECIATE
T-H-E deft service
AND EINTICING
CUITINE •


INTERNATIONAL’S
(fahufitid SucceM!
Sales Increase \C£?I
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA IUV/O
This Chart Speaks for Itself . ♦ .
SHOWING RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE SIX LEADING TRUCKS
Here is convincing proof of the outstand-
ing popularity of International trucks
throughout Australia. Sales of Inter-
national trucks in 1935 increased 166%
—more than double the increase attained
by any other of the six leading trucks on
the market. The comparison, giving the
latest figures available, covers the period
July I to November 30, 1935, as against
the corresponding period of the previous
year. Truck users everywhere are appre-
ciating the unique "all truck" features of
International trucks—are buying them in
increasing numbers—ranging from the
half-ton light delivery to the heavy-duty
five tonner. 'Phone, write or call for par-
ticulars. Catalogues with pleasure.
The International 6-cylinder utility combines fine car
design and equipment with International quality.
®ll
International Model C-1 6-cylinder half-ton van has
a gross capacity of 18 cwt., including body and load
—it is of the class indispensable to the tradesman
on his daily rounds.
■wm
International 35-cwt. Model C-30 is one of the most
popular trucks in the comprehensive International
range. With a gross capacity of 55 cwt., including
body and load, it is of the type required for 75%
of haulage work today.
é
A
A
fault with tennis as a game, this lack of
team spirit and glorification of the indi-
vidual. And it is a big fault.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: There was a sensation in the
Australian athletic world when the
Hobart conference declined to re-elect'
Alderman Marks, of Sydney, to the posi-
tions on the Australian Olympic Federa-
tion and the Empire Games Association
he has held for years with distinction —
indeed, it was solely due to him that Syd-
ney was given the next Empire Games.
For 40 years the veteran has worked hard
for amateur sport, and the sudden ter-
mination of his services has come as a
shock to many. Messrs. Heathwood and
Hodson, of N.S.W., replace him on the
Federation and Association respectively.
“The Gaffer”: Sydney delegates to the
athletic union pow-wow at Hobart told
the gathering that Sydney Cricket
Ground has a fall in level of three feet,
north to south. This has been known
to officialdom for years, and records
have had to be crossed off the book in
consequence. Considering that it is pro-
posed to hold most of the track events
in the coming Empire Games on this
ground, it is time something was done
to remedy the matter. The S.C.G. is
totally unfitted for track events. Over-
seas towns of a tenth of Sydney’s size
possess grounds with cinder tracks and
all mod. con.
* * * *
“Spike”: Travellers returning from
Japan say that the Nipponese are pre-
paring a grand Pacific zone athletic con-
test, and are particularly anxious that
Australian and M.L. athletes should
compete. What with the Olympiad,
Empire Games and seven or eight State
and national athletic championships tak-
ing place regularly, it would seem that
our athletes will soon have to choose
between earning a living by hard work
or appearing as professionals, open or
veiled, as cricketers and tennis players do.
* * * *
“For’ard Hand”: Because of the one-
eyed attitude of the Sydney controllers
of 18ft. sailing in refusing recognition to
the new “skiff” type of 18’s, we shall this
year have the farcical spectacle of two
rival organisations racing for the Aus-
tralian championship, each winning with
a different boat. In Brisbane, where the
“skiff” type originated, one series for the
title has been decided, a Queensland
craft, Aberdare, winning all three races.
She was skippered by Vic Vaughan, who
now shares with Chris Webb, of Sydney,
the distinction of having won three
national titles in this class in succession.
* * * *
“Gate”: King George’s death abolishes
from the holiday calendar his birthday,
June 3. Sydney Rugby League had fixed
the nearest Monday (June 8) for the first
Test match with the English profes-
sionals; and now something will have
to be done. King Edward VIII.’s birth-
day is June 23, a midweek date. The
Australian end has cabled to the Eng-
lish League to say that a rearrangement
of their tour is imperative. One can see
some of the country fixtures getting the
axe, amid howls of execration.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The first British
Rugby international of the season saw
England draw a scoreless game with
Wales at Swansea. Each side had beaten
the All-Blacks, and the game drew a
huge crowd, since it was regarded as
likely to settle the question of inter-
national championship. Prince Obolensky
was effectually bottled by the flying Cam-
bridge winger Cliff Jones. Wales should
have won ; it took most of the scrums,
but the absence of its star back, Claude
Davis, through injury, disorganised its
great three-quarter line.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD office : Australia House,
»ynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
an d at Geelong.
..OL TH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
e asses of Fife Assurance, including:
-ig t Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
on- roflt, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
U
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
maximum assurance at
minimum COST”
Write for full particulars to
General Manager,
Box 14 0 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Australia s Leading Financial Journal
February Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
are prices too high?
the cement industry.
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS.
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION.
PR F ICE t,nic FER COPY - AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
p ir! r . ’ Per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month
Published by The MWto Ke ,,p al » r Co.. Ltd. , «, Conge Street, Sydney, and an "iL.
\t fllj.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Touring Tasmania
'TXA.”: Tasmanians have figures to
show that, since the introduction of the
Navigation Act, not only has the general
tourist traffic fallen off but inter-State
steamer bookings have also shrunk.
They will demonstrate other handi-
caps. But, after a Tasmanian Gov-
ernment Bureau tour of as much of the
Speck as could be crammed into 10
days, I am not as sympathetic as I was.
The Orama landed 260 of us at Burnie
quite a heavy strain on the town’s
accommodation. But the accommoda-
tion 1 got wasn’t worth 12s. a day in any
circumstances. Patched sheets, only two
waitresses in the dining-room, and bath-
room queues were features. Also, the
carrier who begged permission to trans-
port my luggage from the ship took it
to the wrong pub.
Trips to the Hellyer Gorge, Wynyard
and Table Cape were delightful. Next
day the Emu Bay Railway Co. trans-
ported a party of 30-odd to Queens-
town, along the West Coast, and, though
it was a long trip, every moment was
interesting, and the rail-motor driver a
mine of information.
At Queenstown I couldn’t get into my
hotel ; it was full up, so I was shifted
to another pub. Quite excellent for a
mining town ; but the tariff was Is. 6d.
less than for what I had already paid
in advance. The Tourist Bureau in
Hobart told me that a refund would
have meant correspondence ; so I gave it
up, asking that the publican should be
given the benefit of the eighteenpence,
and not the Bureau.
The road from Queenstown to Hobart
(157 miles) passes within three miles of
Lake St. Clair; but we were not per-
mitted a glimpse of “the most beautiful
lake in Tasmania” (see leaflet). Trans-
port regulations, we were told, would
not allow it.
The overnight stay at Queenstown
merely gave us time to inspect the Mt.
Lyell smelters. At 8 a.m. next day the
party was marshalled, and an official
allotted us our cars, irrespective of
friends or groups. I wanted a seat with
some companions. Impossible ; I had to
sit in the front car. “But there’s no seat
left,” I objected. “Just sit on this [inside
fender] until you get to the top of the
hill,” the official said. So trustingly I
sat on the fender, and found, as time
went on, that there would be no change
in the passenger complement until we
got to Hamilton, the best part of 115
miles on.
A little girl and I (she took pity on
me) had turn about on the fender for
that distance. I had paid 355. for the trip.
At Hobart my booking at Heathorne’s
Hotel was null and void ; the wool sales
were on, so I (and others) had to find
another place, and, incidentally, share
rooms.
Hobart is a pleasant place for a holi-
day. But we had to leave it eventually,
after going to Port Arthur, etc., and, as
some of us wanted to see the Great
Lake, we decided to cancel our train
booking and go through the middle of
the island by car. Though on two occa-
sions my hotel bookings (through the
Bureau) had been set aside with scant
apology, I was charged 20 p.c. cancella-
tion fee on the train ticket.
At Launceston wool sales were on, and
I got into my booked hotel only by
sharing a room. Otherwise it was a
highly-satisfactory pub.
After further doubt about bookings I
got a return ticket to the mainland per
the Ormonde. On joining the ship at
Burnie two other male trippers and
myself found we had been given a four-
berth cabin, the fourth occupant being a
lady from London. This mistake was
excusable shore-agents aren’t com-
pletely informed about prior bookings ;
but the lady’s protest —“I couldn’t pos-
sibly have three men in my cabin with
me” —was a little unnecessary. All three
of us threw ourselves on the mercy of the
purser, who found us new accommoda-
tion though the ship was practically full.
Tasmania is a great holiday resort.
The Navigation Act cannot be a help
to it in any way. But the Tourist
Bureau has a lot to learn.
A lot of people are asking Whether
present high prices for investment shares
“Didn't I tell you not to swallow! Dammit all, gold fillings cost eight
pound fifteen an ounce."
will hold. It shouldn’t be overlooked
that the outstanding increases in quota-
tions over the past couple of months
have been mostly in respect of stocks
whose present dividend rates allow a
reasonable return even at the higher
quotations. The average run of stocks,
though decidedly firmer in the market,
are not sensationally higher. Among
those which have mounted, G. J. Coles
at 725. yields a shade under 3.5 p.c.—
and the holder may look with reasonable
confidence towards something better in
due course. Bank shareholders must
eventually get higher divs. all round.
Adelaide Steam shares, stronger in spite
of the strike, have been undervalued for
some time (ships, freeholds, etc., figure
in the books at no more than £1,322,532),
and should still have something in them
at 325. Amalgamated Wireless returns
4 p.c., Broken Hill Prop. 4.2 p.c., David
Jones ord. 4.5 p.c., Mauri Bros. ord. 3.6
p.c. (and a higher div. could be easily
paid next March), Newbold Firebrick
5.2 p.c., and Castlemaine-Perkins a shade
under 4 p.c. Australian Glass (3.1 p.c.)
and British Tobacco (2.9 p.c.) give really
low returns, and at present prices holders
are asking something out of the ordinary
from the future. But Gordon and Gotch
ords. at 465. 6d., Henry Jones at 395.,
Arthur Cocks at 225., Cumberland Paper
at 325. 6d., Winchcombe Carson at
31s. 9d., Hydraulic Power at 235. 9d.,
Kandos Cement at 255. 6d., and Prestige
Hosiery at 18s. 9d., all appear to offer a
reasonable yield, present money condi-
tions taken into account, and considering
their future prospects.
* « «: a
At the flotation Emperor shareholders
paid on the basis of £600,000 for the
mine in Fiji; £450,000 was subscribed in
cash, of which £300,000, with £300,000
worth of shares, went to Theodore,
Packer, Wren and Cody. The co. thus
kicked off with less than £150,000 of
cash in hand after preliminary exes,
had been met. Shareholders in Lance-
field, a Westralian low-grade show
which has now reached the dividend
stage, paid £25,000 for the mine, and the
co. started off with about £175,000 in the
till. The Lancefield property had on it
a good deal of still-useful plant, as well
as shafts and workings. For a time some
shareholders in Emperor, and some
punters who paid 295. for their scrip,
valued the thing at more than £2,000,000.
Melbourne went Fiji mad, despite the
unproven nature of not only the Em-
peror mine but practically the entire field.
Last week the market’s appraisement of
the Emperor had subsided to less than
£1,000,000 (after deducting the new cash
that went into it). If the scrip should
go below par there may be clamorings
that the vendors return at least part of
the £600,000. Such things have been
done.
* * * *
The heavy drop in Loloma shares fol-
lowed a report that in the main shaft
the crosscut had been extended to 43ft.,
with the last 20|ft. averaging less than
a pennyweight a ton. P. F. Cody, a
director of the co., has advised holders
not to become panicky; last week he
referred to the extensively-reported state-
ment of E. G. Banks, made in August
last, to the effect that the proved ore-
body, down to 100 ft., disclosed 100,000
tons averaging 2yOZ. Mr. Cody referred
to “a value of £2,000,000 already
proved” ; it was on the strength of re-
ports such as this that Loloma and
Emperor shares soared so high last year.
But they didn’t soar again last week.
Loloma sales fluctuated from 30s. to
265. 6d. At 275. the market’s valuation of
the show is £1,100,000. At one stage the
appraisement was nearly twice that.
* * * *
Australia’s principal gold-producers:
Estimated Annual
Production,
_ Fine oz.
Lake View and Star .. 145,000
Wiluna 126,000
Great Boulder .. .. 60,000
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 45,000
South Kalgurli .. .. 35,000
Mt. Morgan 35,000
Boulder Perseverance .. 33,000
Lancefield 29,000
North Kalgurli .. .. 27,000
Total, nine mines .. .. 535,000
Annual production is estimated on re-
cent results, with regard to past ex-
perience. Lancefield hasn’t a full year’s
output to its credit yet. The shows
enumerated are responsible for nearly
60 p.c. of the Commonwealth’s total pro-
duction of the metal—about 900,0000 z.
last year, worth £7,900,000 (Australian).
They are all working in ore averaging
less than lOdwt. Mt. Morgan stone is
lowest in gold ; but it is opencut-mining,
and there is a good recovery of copper.
* * * *
Lancefield’s crushing for December
(6136 tons) was down 2720 tons com-
pared with November. Holidays and
plant overhaul had their effect. But the
average return was £2 19s. a ton, as
against £2 12s. 10d., and, though costs
were slightly higher per ton, the working
profit averaged £1 11s. 2d. on the ton-
nage, as against £1 6s. sd. There is no-
thing to wail against in those figures pro-
vided they tell the full story, as they
seem to. But the market, after rising
above 15s. (4s. shares) for a time,
dropped back below 12s. last week.
Lancefield’s first div. (Is.) is payable on
February 7. The market seems unduly
unappreciative.
* * * * •
Those December crushings certainly
disconcerted the market in more than one
case. New Occidental (Cobar, N.S.W.),
despite holidays and other incidentals,
almost equalled its November through-
put with 5122 tons of ore. But re-
coveries averaged only 6.6dwt., as against
Bdwt. During October and November
gold won was somewhat above the aver-
age indicated in the prospectus, and the
ss. shares ran up to around 16s. Last
week they were down to around 13s. On
evidence available the show has dis-
tinct possibilities, but “inside informa-
tion” is not available to the man in
the street.
* * * *
The rise in the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney’s interim div. (from 5 to
6 p.c.) follows on the lift in the C.B.A.’s
rate last August. The ’Wales makes its
next quarterly distribution in February ;
since slump, etc., brought its rate down
to 5 p.c., this institution has disclosed
nothing in the way of profits that would
justify a higher dividend. But extra-
ordinary provision against the under-
mining of rural securities by low prices
should not be necessary on the same
scale as hitherto.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Metropolitan”
Lawrence Tibbett has been away from
the screen for four years. In the mean-
time remarkable progress has been made
in the art of cinema sound-recording, and
in “Metropolitan” this baritone’s voice
is reproduced with perfect fidelity.
The film is not very well named. The
only connection with New York’s toniest
opera house is that Tibbett (as Tommy
Renwick) has a job in the chorus there ;
is chiselled out of a chance to sing as a
principal, and joins a disgruntled prima
donna (Alice Brady) in an effort to
organise an opera co. in Philadelphia.
The prima donna, insanely jeglous, with-
draws her voice (which is poor) and her
backer (who is rich) from the show
before it opens. The conductor, Peron-
Fred Astaire in “Top Hat,” at Sydney
State.
telli (George Marion), disappears about
the same time. Financial situation is
saved by talented young soprano (Vir-
ginia Bruce), who turns out to be a mil-
lionaire’s daughter. Then Tibbett, work-
ing night and day to get “Pagliacci” and
“Cavalleria Rusticana” rehearsed, loses
his voice. However, the conductor turns
up in the nick of time, Tibbett’s voice
returns as he declaims the opening notes
of the Prologue, and on the conclusion
of that aria the story ends. The thread
is a bit slender, but the acting—Tibbett
has improved out of all recognition in
this respect—is good, there is plenty of
amusing by-play, and the romantic ele-
ment is not overlooked. Luis Alberni,
without whom no opera-talkie would be
complete, is at his mercurial best.
From Tibbett are heard, in addition to
the “Pagliacci” Prologue, the Toreador
Song from “Carmen,” “Largo al Fac-
totum” from Rossini’s “Barber” and
“De Glory Road,” all magnificently de-
livered. In addition there is a roadside
scene in which Tibbett' and Miss Bruce
sing scraps from Gounod’s “Faust,” with
a car radio as accompaniment. Musi-
cally this talkie is on a level with “One
Night of Love,” and equals that de-
servedly popular production in all other
respects. At Sydney Embassy.
“Ship Cafe”
The Ship Cafe being an old sailing-
ship converted into a night club, a fair
amount of croonery and can-cans is in-
evitably mixed into the proceedings.
Carl Brisson is a Danish stoker on a
liner. Opening shots show the boys with
the long-handled shovels singing “Blow
the Man Down” as they hurl coal into
the furnaces. Carl’s melodious voice
attracts an amorous countess (Mady
Christians). Her attention earns Carl
some banter from his stokehole col-
leagues, as a result of which Carl nearly
kills one with a shovel, goes to gaol and
loses his ship in consequence. A fellow-
prisoner (William Prawley) is part-pro-
prietor of the Ship Cafe, and when they
both emerge engages Carl as bouncer.
Principal crooner falls sick, and Carl
takes his place on a night when the coun-
tess has brought a duke and the world’s
heavyweight boxing champion to the
cafe. The boxer annoys Carl, who
knocks him out, thereby earning fame
for himself and the cafe. The countess
entices him away to sing at another night
club, but when the worthy seaman (who
has just acquired his second mate’s
ticket) finds she expects him to make love
to her he clears out and gets a berth on
a four-masted schooner. Finding she
cannot live without him Arline Judge, his
erstwhile songandance partner, follows
him, falls in the sea, and is rescued at
the final fadeout. Brisson, who boasts a
smooth, pleasant baritone, gives a life-
like imitation of a Dane, possibly be-
cause he is one. Dialogue is smart,
chuckles are frequent and action sel-
dom lags. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Hands Across the Table”
Plot of this comedy is slender and
hackneyed—it is the tale of the hotel
manicurist who resolved to marry
money ; did her best to hook an apparent
millionaire ; found he was penniless, and,
moreover, engaged to be married, and
got heartbroken about it. A real mil-
lionaire loved her all the while, but just
as he made up his mind to pop the ques-
tion the other fellow came back, most
nobly resolved to earn his own living
and marry the girl. Carole Lombard is
the girl, Fred Mac Murray her indigent
sweetheart and Ralph Bellamy the benev-
olent millionaire (crippled in a flying
crash) who gracefully gives way to the
younger man. Mac Murray has a part
that fits him like a glove, and the others
act up well. By-play is clever through-
out, and there are few dull moments.
Also at the Prince Edward.
“Paddy O’Day”
Of all the juvenile actors whom the
screen has brought to light none has
shown a higher degree of intelligence
Carl Brisson in “Ship Cafe” at Sydney
Prince Edward.
than Jane Withers. Her performance in
the title role of “Paddy O’Day” is almost
impossible to fault. She is a mixture of
sophistication and wide-eyed innocence,
avoiding extremes with each. She
almost carries the whole film. The theme
is the hackneyed one of the small child
who united two fond hearts, but its
poverty of imagination is made less
noticeable by excellent direction. Paddy
is a young emigrant from Ould Oireland
going to join her mother, who is in ser-
vice with a wealthy New York family.
The mother dies before Paddy arrives.
The youngster escapes from Ellis Island,
goes to the home where her mother
worked, and is befriended by the
scholarly, shy young man of the house,
in collaboration with the servants. Their
efforts to keep Paddy and her insepar-
able dog away from the young man’s
two masterful aunts and the immigration
Fred MacMurray in “Hands Across the
Table,” at Sydney Prince Edward.
authorities give scope for humor. The
blossoming forth of the young man and
his eventual marriage to a beautiful Rus-
sian, a fellow-emigree of Paddy’s, keep
Jane occupied, and the audience amused,
for an hour and a half. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Transient Lady”
Also at the Capitol. An American
small-town melodrama giving a glimpse
of how the political racket interferes with
justice. The hoodlum brother of a
powerful local politician is shot in self-
defence. An innocent man is framed —
after all, the boss politician must have
someone to wreak his vengeance on. A
lawyer-rival of the crook politician
(Gene Raymond) defends the scapegoat,
and beats a packed jury and dishonest
Judge. He gets a bullet in the shoulder
whilst cross-examining a gangster wit-
ness. June Clay worth ogles the lawyer
in vain, her lurv finally being bestowed
on Frances Drake, skating-partner of the
accused. It is a mediocre story, wood-
enly acted—Raymond in particular is
painful to watch. It is said to be the
first dramatic film made by a director
named Buzzell. It would seem that
previously he had attempted nothing
more complicated than the love life of
the boll weevil.
“The Battle of the Centuries”
The “white-ant,” as almost everybody
knows, isn’t an ant. He’s a termite and
his community is divided into industrial
and military classes. The industrials
combine business with pleasure by eat-
ing the wood in which they excavate
the streets and houses of their cities.
Even a termite couldn’t digest wood un-
aided, so half his bulk is made up of
microscopic organisms that are purely
and simply stomachs with swimming
powers. These turn timber into nutri-
ment. Sworn enemies of the termites
are the real ants. When these invade a
termite stronghold a fight to the death
ensues. Such a contest is filmed with
almost incredible wealth of detail in
“The Battle of the Centuries,” with a
running commentary from an authority
on the subject, who declares that ter-
mites were on earth 50,000,000 years ago
and are immeasurably older than man.
During most of that long period they
have battled with the ants. The issue
isn’t yef decided, and probably won’t
ever be, because the sun will grow cold
long before either the ants or the ter-
mites evolutionise new methods of war-
fare. Seen at a Fox Theatrette preview,
in Sydney.
“The Dark Angel”
This is one of those Great-War-time
confections in which a young officer and
his lass cohabit without benefit of clergy.
Young officer is posted missing, and
after two or three years a rival lover is
accepted by the lady. Young officer is
blinded ; is too chivalrous to claim his
girl in the circumstances, and .so changes
his name and address. He is restored to
his sweetheart at the fade-out. The plot
takes nearly two hours to unfold, and in
that space of time every harrowing cliche
in the scenario-writer’s war-story reper-
toire is exploited. Fredric March is
the blinded soldier, Herbert Marshall
the rival suitor, and Merle Oberon the
girl. Acting and production are Al—
much better than such a drearily un-
original theme deserves. At Sydney
Regent.
“Your Uncle Dudley”
Edward Everett Horton carries the
whole of this amusing comedy on his
shoulders. He is a small-town business-
man, so immersed in clubs, lodges and
local welfare associations that he
neglects his own affairs. Every now and
then some organisation presents him with
a loving-cup, but when he gets in a jamb
and wants to borrow some money every
citizen he encounters has troubles of his
own. So finally he revolts: conducts
a revolution in his own household by
kicking out a domineering widowed
sister-in-law; compels the leading citi-
zens not only to lend him the money
he needs but to sign expensive contracts
with his firm, and marries his secretary.
His opportunities as a laughmaker are
much more numerous than usual and
much better suited to his style. Also at
the Regent.
“The Eagle’s Brood”
Sydney Civic, which showed movies as
far back as 1916, and has since had spells
of vaudeville, has been done out anew
as a film palace, and on Friday young-
Carole Lombard in “Hands Across the
Table.”
sters turned up in droves to welcome
Clarence E. Mulford’s Hopalong Cassidy
(William Boyd). The film is disappoint-
ing. There’s little of the hard-riding and
hard-fighting that made the Mulford
yarns delectable, and Boyd isn’t Bill Cas-
sidy. He shoots straight enough, but he
hasn’t that lightning speed on the draw,
and somehow he doesn’t capture the
imagination. Johnny Nelson (Jimmy
Ellison) is better, but Cassidy won’t let
him go into action. The bad men do
their stuff well enough.
“The Virginia Judge”
Also at the Civic. A glimpse at the
life of a kind-hearted, small-town Judge
who would rather go fishing than sit on
the Bench. Most of it is taken up with


FAMOUS PICTURE SERIES
\'\ *'
€
e nLov<
°^Qtns
Defy
m
S&t
• X
\
Said
mtrk
ue/
m
t
s -s' S
r
N
o\
m
m
UNPRECEDENTED ENTERTAINMENT
recommendations /
4
SENSATIONALLY SMASHING RECORDS ON
THE CONTINENT—AND NOW ENGLAND'S
VERDICT EQUALLY ENTHUSIASTIC!
<
STOP PRESS
"Koenigsmark' trade screened London Friday
last tremendous success . . . Amaxing scenes
of enthusiasm THIS WILL BE ONE OF THE
OUTSTANDING PICTURES OF 1936!
\
k
i
4
w
PIERRE FRESNAY
JOHN LODGE
FRANK VOSPER
an(s cast of Thousands /.
f.
? jnTf
s-J* t*
‘M-
m
ommoio
f ENTERTAIN AU AUSTRALIA" >
mx your local theatqe y
MANAGER ABOUT IT/
the troubles of the Judge’s stepson, a
spoilt brat who should have been sent
to a reformatory at a very early age.
At the finish he’s let off after shooting
a mate during a street brawl. Six months’
might have been the making of him.
Easily this week’s worst.
Some First Nights
It says much for the agility of Gilbert’s
mind that so many of his satires on nine-
teenth-century institutions have survived
the conventions they ridiculed. “Ruddi-
gore,” which appeared first in Queen
Victoria’s golden-jubilee year, poked fun
at the stereotypes of melodrama —the
golden-hearted, handsome hero, the gal-
lant sailor, the wicked baronet, the faith-
ful servitor, the beautiful but imbecile
heroine, the witchlike dame and the
comic character who foils the evildoer.
For at' least 15 years afterwards Aus-
tralasia, which didn’t in that period see
“Ruddigore,” had as its staple theatrical
fare plays staged by Bland Holt, William
Anderson, George Darrell, the younger
Coppin and others, which sedulously fol-
lowed the old melodramatic formula.
The Gilbertian burlesque, presented at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, evoked as
many chuckles from the generation that
knows not Bland Holt as from that
which did. Ivan Menzies as the hero,
Winifred Lawson as the heroine, God-
frey Stirling as the hornpipe-dancing
sailor, Evelyn Gardiner as Dame Hannah
and Richard Watson as Sir Despard
Murgatroyd had the pick of the parts,
but almost as much fun was provided by
“Afternoon,” water-color by J. Muir Auld in the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
the numerous bygone baronets and the
corps of professional bridesmaids. Stag-
ing was first-class, and the very tuneful
music was well treated at the hands of
principals, chorus and Andrew Mac-
Cunn’s orchestrions.
■i* *i*
The Independent Theatre’s revival of
Elmer Rice’s “Street' Scene,” at the Syd-
ney Savoy, was well up to standard.
Marie Rosenfeld, Therese Desmond and
Hawdon Wilson repeated their telling
performances of four years ago. Dorothy
Whitely was at home in the part of the
gossip, Maxwell Osbiston scored as the
intellectual but somewhat ineffectual
young Jew, and Eddie Finn made a
plausible philanderer.
+ + 4 1
Eric Hudson’s farce, “The Unfair Sex,”
presented by Sydney Thespians at St.
James’s Hall last week, is a satire on
matters ranging from prudish Victorian-
ism to the authoritarianism of G. B.
Shaw. Thirty years of divorce-court um-
piring have convinced crotchety Sir Henry
Hesketh, K.C., that the recipe for matri-
monial bliss is more, bigger and better
babies. Detecting perfidy in his child-
less nephew’s household, he bamboozles
the guilty pair into believing that each
is aware of the other’s defection. It
enabled Alan Stone (joint producer, too)
to prove his mettle as a mime. Dorothea
Lawford, all dimpled innocence in a
vamp role, and Eveline Shearer, Muriel
Connor and Geoffrey Trevor also pro-
vided fun.
Some Musical Book Reviews
Wagner, by Robert L. Jacobs, and
Mozart, by Eric Blom, are new biog-
raphies in Dent’s Master Musicians
series. Under the editorship of Mr. Blom
this series, first issued many years ago,
is being brought out in a new format,
extensively revised. In some cases,
notably those of Beethoven and the two
composers mentioned above, it has been
deemed advisable to have an entirely
new book written.
Blom’s compendium on Mozart is just
what is needed by the musician of
catholic tastes, devoting as much space
to an analysis of the composer’s works
as to the oft-recited details of his short
and troubled existence —which ended in
a pauper’s grave. Like most other com-
mentators, Blom finds that Mozart’s great-
ness lay in “his infallible taste for say-
ing exactly the right thing at the right
time and at the right length ; for mak-
ing the most sensitive choice, even
among commonplaces, and above all in
his miraculous power to convert per-
fectly ordinary material into new inven-
tions by an insuperable certainty of treat-
ment. He was incapable of the slight-
est offence against good taste. Not even
that of being too priggishly tasteful.’’
Elsewhere Blom recalls Ernest Newman's
observation that, whereas in Beethoven
there are many passages definitely
charged with deep melancholy and in
Haydn many that irradiate high-spirited
jollity, it is impossible with Mozart to
decide, even in opera, where the words
should fix the mood, whether the music
is sad or glad. But that it is almost
always beautiful in the truest sense of
the word cannot be denied.
Richard Wagner was a horse of a very
different color; the curve of his experi-
ence coincided with that of Mozart only
on two planes—they both were continu-
ally in debt and had a roving eye for
the other sex. But whereas Mozart,
under the thumb of his father, a typical
petty civil servant (he was Court
musician at Salzburg), during nearly the
whole of his life, was taught to dread
debt and to be ashamed of his strayings
from marital fidelity, Wagner, whose
father died when the future composer
was a babe, deter-
mined at an early
age that the world
owed him all he
cared to demand
from it. He bor-
rowed recklessly
and had no scruples
where women were
concerned. He
found in Nietzsche
his most kindred
spirit, and laid the
foundations of
Nazi-ism as much
by his curiously
muddled political
views and his pas-
sionate anti-Semit-
ism as by his ex-
cursions into
Nordic mythology.
He had all the
stubborn pride and
self-assertiveness of
Beethoven coupled
with the Olympian
superiority to finan-
cial details of a Meyerbeer or a Mendels-
sohn, though lacking the means of those
two very wealthy gentlemen. But, though
a complete egoist, he had an inspiring and
affection-breeding personality, and bound
many valuable friends to his chariot
wheel —mad King Ludwig among them.
Robert L. Jacobs, in his biography in
Dent’s series, credits Wagner with being
able to love intensely “after his fashion.”
Of the Wagnerian achievement in music
there is nothing new to say. One of
Richard’s idolators (Heseltine, Delius’s
biographer) has declared that Beethoven
was the morning, Wagner the high noon
and Delius the sunset, but more dis-
criminating observers refuse to put either
Beethoven or Delius in that gallery.
Wagner’s greatness lies in a field apart;
his genius came as from another planet.
But, like that of Berlioz, his music in its
fire and madness leaps at times not to
the stars but netherward. Mr. Jacobs
writes not as a partisan, but as a fair-
minded referee, a task so difficult that
its successful accomplishment deserves
high praise.
In the same series Tschaikovsky, by
Edwin Evans, and Handel, by C. F. Abdy
Williams, are republished, but with ex-
tensive evidences of Mr. Blom’s careful
and scholarly revision. In all these works
an authoritative and up-to-date catalogue
of the composer’s works is a feature.
English published price is 4s. 6d.
A. Major.
“Double Disc”: One Reynolds, of
Adelaide, “The Swagman Artist,” claims
the title of champion pavement artist of
the world —says he won it in 1930 by
executing a crayon translation of Holman
Hunt’s “The Light of the World” in six
hours 18 minutes. Reynolds is an inter-
esting character. He has been a pave-
ment artist for 35 years. There is hardly
a capital city in Europe which he has
not seen, and hurrying thousands in New
York, Chicago and ’Frisco have dropped
their dimes of appreciation upon his
work. Back at present in his home town,
he has a pitch outside the Legislative
Council Chamber in North-terrace,
There is subtle humor in his choice of
possie.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
the only son (aged 40-50 years) of the late
THOMAS STEPHENSON, who emigrated with
his brothers William and John Stephenson
from Donegal, Ireland, after the year 1870,
and who first married in Australia (where the
said son was born prior to 1896), and sub-
sequently married Ane Chatrine Hansen in
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand, where he was
accidentally killed in 1896, kindly communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hastings, New Zealand, immediately?
RE HENRY CLARENCE REILLY, generally
known as JIM REILLY. —Last reputed to have
been at Mackay, Queensland, about a year ago
—formerly worked at the Mt. Isa Goldmines,
which he left some four years ago. The above
is requested to communicate with MES-
SIEURS MORGAN AND FYFFE, Solicitors.
Chancery House, 485 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria, when he will hear of some-
thing materially to his advantage. Anybody
knowing his whereabouts or that of his legal
representatives if dead, or giving proof of hi>
death, is requested to communicate with the
above firm of Solicitors, when they will be
rewarded.
WILL JOHN McINTOSH, trainer, born at
Pitfield, Victoria, and later a member of the
Victorian police, stationed at Kensington, Mel-
bourne, who is entitled to a legacy under the
will of his uncle, Hugh Kirkland Mclntosh,
late of Pitfield, grazier, or anyone who can
give information as to his whereabouts, please
communicate at once with DAVID CLARKE
& SON, Lydiard Street, Ballarat, Solicitor 5
for the estate of the said Hugh Kirkland
Mclntosh?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney has been a city of mourning.
Mighty and funereal music has rolled
from city organs, bells have tolled, the
slow firing of the minute guns is still
in our ears. Sydney knew it had lost
not only a monarch, but a friend, and
those who remembered when he visited
Australia as a very young prince, and
later as the Duke of York, brought forth
from the treasure house of their memo-
ries pictures of the slight, beautifully-
tailored figure, the merry laugh, the
friendliness. Remarkably bright and
clear those memories are —etched in by
affection. With one accord city shops
swept their windows of all gay raiment
and replaced it with black and purple
and the quietness of grey. Streamers of
sombreness draped large portraits of the
dead King, and these were the dominant
notes of showcase, of theatre vestibule.
Purple and black entwined the pillars
and facades of public buildings, women
were black-frocked, churches were never
empty.
In England they never told the visitor
tales of the late King’s grandeur;
it was always some story of his
kindness, his courtesy. About a year ago
the writer of this Letter was in London,
staying at a small hotel in Buck-
ingham Gate, across the way from Buck-
ingham Palace. One morning the
waitress at breakfast was all excited
smiles. Putting down the morning toast
and pekoe, she said: “Mary and I saw
the King and Queen yesterday. Quite
close. We were standing on the island,
just outside the Mall gates, and we recog-
nised the Queen! Mary said ‘Quick, it’s
the King and Queen!’ And we were
so excited we bobbed and waved. And —
what do you think? —the King raised his
hat and the Queen smiled!” Another
story they were fond of in London was
the one about Queen Mary when she
was visiting a children’s hospital. She
stopped to speak to one small patient,
and said “And where do you live?”
“Just the back of Barker’s, lady,” was
the reply. Presently, a little shyly: “An’
where do you live, lady?” “Do you
know Gorringe’s?” (It’s a shop quite
close to Buckingham Palace.) “Yes,
lady.” “Well, I live just back of Gor-
ringe’s.”
St. George’s Chapel, where King
George V. is now buried, is in the Lower
Ward of Windsor Castle. The visitor
comes on it shortly after he has passed
through the Henry VIII. gateway. It
is said to be one of the finest examples
of late perpendicular architecture left in
England. It was begun by Edward IV.
and completed by Henry VIII. It
is broad-windowed, and within the
light is mellow, touching with beauty
the fanvaulting of nave and choir. In
the choir the dark woodwork of the
stalls of the Knights of the Garter'(this
is the chapel of the Order) is enriched
with the banners of scarlet and gold,
violet and white, that hang against the
vaulted ceiling. These stalls, too, gleam
with insignia in rich enamel. Here was
Charles I. swiftly buried, his coffin and
its black velvet pall whitened with snow.
Here lie George 111. and IV. ; and here
is a monument to Edward VII., with his
dog Cassar at his feet. The royal pew,
with its Bible in readiness, is of wood-
work so old it is almost black, and is
raised a few steps above the floor.
Besides the little cream terrier, Bob,
that now mourns its royal master, there
is an old pink-and-grey parrot that
wonders where her friend “Geordie” or
“Captain,” as she called him, has gone.
This parrot always travelled with the
royal family between their different
palaces, its means of transit a baize-
covered cage. It has often made the
journey to Sandringham. This house is
modernised Elizabethan in style. It has
spreading gardens, and from the planta-
tion the Queen Mother always chooses
the young fir that is to be the family’s
Christmas-tree. In the gardens grow
some of England’s loveliest roses, and
here is a luxuriant bed of heliotrope that
was planted by Queen Alexandra.
A sad little girl is Princess Elizabeth.
She and “Uncle England,” as she some-
times called her grandfather, were great
playmates. One of the prettiest sights at
a recent royal garden party was to see
the small girl, her pink frock flying in
a high wind, running across the lawn in
front of Buckingham Palace to kiss the
King, who had just stepped from the
Palace with Queen Mary and members
of the Court, the Princes, the Duke of
Connaught, and the Duchess of Devon-
shire among them. King George looked
well that day—he was as usual the best-
turned-out man in the assemblage.
Queen Mary, in ivory chiffons and lace,
the glint of diamonds at her ears, the fire
of emeralds at her throat, walked on trim
feet as unaware of the 9000 pairs of eyes
gazing at her as only the initiate can be.
Every now and then she stopped to talk
to a friend. Later, under the opulent
red and gold of the Durbar tent, she
and King George received those honored
by special presentation. It is from the
gardens of Sandringham, incidentally,
that the roses for the tea-table in the
royal tent always come.
With the news of King George’s death
Sydney’s social life became as. stilled as
that loved form in Sandringham House.
Even afternoon-tea drinkings were post-
poned till after the royal funeral. Young
brides who had chosen that night for
their wedding felt almost guilty as they
slipped into their satins and tulle. With
almost an apologetic air they crept up
the aisles of various churches, and recep-
tions later were curtailed to cake-cutting
and a toast-drinking. Dancing was not
even dreamed of. Hotel lounges and
tearooms wore an air of desolation, and
everybody in street and shop spoke in
subdued tones. Race-meetings and the
100th Anniversary Regatta were among
the important fixtures postponed.
Yvonne Daunt, just returned to Aus-
tralia, where she was born, was for 10
years a star dancer in Paris grand
opera. She was the first British girl to
break into the exclusive precincts of the
opera ballet in Paris, and this record still
holds. A special law had to be passed
(since the opera is subsidised by the Gov-
ernment) to enable her to appear as a
leading dancer, because she had not gone
through opera ballet classes, step by
step, since childhood.
From Paris, urged by Genee, the
critic Philip Richardson and Anatole
France, Miss Daunt went to London,
where she appeared at the Coliseum. Miss
Daunt is a vice-president of the Royal
Academy of Dancing, London. A Bul-
letin man made this portrait of her.
Edward VIII. knows his Sydney. A
little over 15 years ago he landed at Farm
Cove —a Digger Prince. His simple
manner, sensitive rather than shy, his
smile won the city’s heart, and holds it
to this day. But his greatest conquest
was made at the public levee in the
Town Hall. With a thoughtlessness that
he perhaps remembered, and in his
present sorrow has not repeated, the
local authorities dated the levee for
the morning after the public holidays.
This meant loss of a few hours’ pay for
the city toilers who wanted to pay their
respects.
The memories of that gay and glitter-
ing week —the red carpet, the sunlit day,
the gold braid, the cocked hat .of the
landing, the magnificence of frocking and
uniform at balls—grow dim beside the
scene of that public levee. There is no
place more dreary than a town hall in
the early morning, but the smile flashed
and made it warm with humanity. Those
who had come up from Surry Hills, the
’Loo and Pyrmont, standing in a queue
eight abreast from about seven in the
morning, seemed to feel well repaid.
They walked in by a door on the Druitt-
street side and out by a door opposite.
The Prince stood forward, Officialdom in
the background. One tiny girl stepped
back to wave a hand ; the young man
waved in return. There were young
girls, there were old ladies, there were
even mothers with babies in their arms
in the long procession.
Brigadier C. G. N. Miles represented
the Governor-General (now in Mel-
bourne) at the memorial service for King
George in St. Andrew’s Cathedral. Arch-
bishop Mowll, a solemn figure in his
purple vestments, officiated, and a feature
of the vast assemblage who prayed was
the number of V.Cs., now helping with
their supplication one who in his life
they had gladly helped with their
strength. The Lieutenant-Governor and
his lady, the Chief Justice Jordans and
the Premier were among a throng so
vast that identification stickers for the
windscreens of their cars were sent out
to those who received cards of invitation
to the service. At St. Mary’s Cathedral
a choir of 300 priests chanted the Litany
of the Saints. Monsignor King—he was
senior A.I.F. chaplain—delivered the
address, and four trumpeters from the
Westmead Boys’ Band sounded the
“Dresden Amen” from the sanctuary
steps.
The balcony of Parliament House was
crowded with phalanxes of the State’s
importants for the proclamation of King
Edward VIII. as King. The Navy and
Army were there, many Consuls and more
members of Parliament. The Governor
(Lord Gowrie) arrived with General
Anderson and Captain Ponsonby.
Official-secretary Budge was there. Pre-
mier, Lieutenant-Governor, Chief Justice,
Archbishop, Mayor joined in the cheers
called for the King by the Premier at
the end of the National Anthem. The
band of the Royal Australian Artillery
supplied stirring marches before the read-
ing of the proclamation. Crowds outside
the black-and-purple-draped Parliament
House joined in the cheers.
The voice that charmed Australia’s
ears when Edward VIII. made his
speeches in 1920 is a family possession.
Those who remember King George’s
opening of Federal Parliament will tell
of the fine sonorous tones, and most of
us in these later years heard that clear
diction over the air. Edward VII. was
a good speaker, and Queen Victoria had
a clear, silvery voice and a fine delivery.
The Renaissance colorings and styles,
of which we have heard much, found
graceful expression at the Strelitz-
Levenger wedding. The bride, Irene
Strelitz, not long back from Europe,
wore a frock of deep ivory ’satin. This
had a double cowl collar lined with sil-
ver lame ; its long sleeves were slit to
show a silver lining ; its train was square.
Honiton lace arranged as a Russian
headdress and layers of tulle were added
attractions. The two matrons of honor
shimmered in angelica blue, flecked with
Titian-red rhinestones. Wreaths of red
flowers were bound to their tresses with
red velvet streamers, and these fell to
the hem of their dresses. The groom,
Ronald Levenger, comes from Surrey, in
England. Bride’s parents, the Paul
Strelitz couple, of Rose Bay, entertained
over a hundred guests at Elizabeth Bay
House.
This is a week-old photograph of Lady
Gowrie, so soon to leave this State to
take up her duties as wife of the Gov-
ernor-General. Though her reign at Gov-
ernment House has been unmarked by
lavish public entertaining, there has been
much of the dignified dinner-party form
of hospitality. Deep interest has been
shown in music ; both Lord and Lady
Gowrie are music-lovers, and young
genius has raised its voice and played
its instrument in the long drawing-rooms.
At least one opera star of the future will
call their name blessed. She is Joan
Hammond, in whose career Lady Gowrie
has interested herself since the first time
the Sydney girl sang for her. No wel-
fare movement has asked in vain for the
help of her presence and patronage, and
several times the gardens around the vice-
regal home during her residence have
been thrown open in the cause of charity.
A Monte Luke portrait. /
Boredom is an evil unknown to Sister
Kelly, of the travelling baby health
clinic. This is a bit of the Far-West
Health Scheme, and is a blessing to the
about-to-be and thejust-beginning mothers
of the outback. Sister Webb, who with
Sister Kelly showed visitors the arrange-
ments and health possibilities of these
railway carriages at Central Railway
Station one morning last week, is another
ardent worker. In the various centres
at which they stop the sisters follow the
stork’s flight, calling at the houses where
babies have been added to the house-
hold. In the afternoons they are at home
in their railway-carriage consulting-
room, eager to demonstrate all about
weighing baby, his food charts, his bath.
With nine of its members setting out
on world tours, the hospitality committee
of the Harborside Branch of the C.W.A.
feels that it must have a leave-taking to
wish the travellers happy journey and
safe return. So, although the party on
the Merkur has been postponed owing to
the nation’s mourning, there will be a
subdued (no music, no bridge) farewell-
ing at the Forum Club. Presentations to
the voyagers will include double packs
of bridge cards embossed with the initials
J.V. in the C.W.A. colors. These, accom-
panied by flowers fit for a film star, go
to Mrs. Colin Venn.
The newest and quickest way to slim
is by injections. They’re doing it in
Hollywood, and stubborn little blobs of
fat that have resisted the morning crawl
and stretch and bend for weeks dis-
solve themselves into a dew (due to the
expert, whose bill, one expects, is a fairly
plump figure). This Letter has heard of
one lass known to Sydney undergoing
this treatment with sylphlike results.
While being injected the patient eats
bananas and drinks skim milk. Not
actually while the needle is being driven
in, but throughout the weeks of the
course. When Pauline Frederick was
slimming for “Madame X.” in London
her diet was mostly eggs and tomatoes.
But that is some years ago. There have
been the grape-fruit and pineapple
rackets since then.
Anona Winn, who, with Mrs. Eric
Strelitz, has placed a scenario with the
British National Film Co., was a
protegee of Lee White. Lee White recog-
nised Anona’s quality, and took the Syd-
ney girl into her company. Nor did her
interest end till she had seen the begin-
ner settled in London diggings. Anona
is now one of the bright stars of the
broadcasting world, and even the heads
of the 8.8. C. raise their hats to her. In
addition, she is never without theatrical
engagements, and is known from the
North to the South of England. She
writes almost all her own songs. Mrs.
Eric Strelitz, writer of the film story, was
Marjorie Jacobson, also of Sydney. Dr.
Norman Haire, of Harley-street, is her
uncle. The name of the scenario is
“To-morrow’s Children.”
The service was choral when Tamar
Watson married her Bishop Wilton at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral last Thursday,
but it nearly missed being floral. The
bouquets for the bride and her ’maids
were late or had been mislaid ; however,
they were in the proper place in bride’s
and ’maids’ hands when the procession
started up the aisle. Miss Watson’s hat
and frock were of palest blue; her
attendants, Lorna Cox and Alice Hunter,
contrasted black hats with phlox-pink
frocks. Dr. Micklem and Canon Baker,
of St. Thomas’s, North Sydney, tied the
knot.


Educational
PROOF
HERE is proof—MlSS MYRA FARLEY, of
Bdgrave Street, Coburg, a girl of only 15 years
for g n,v d a pupi L of the DACOMB College
for tuition in Shorthand, Typing, Book-
r k^ p \ ng and Accountancy, has pissed the
G° v ™ en t Technical School examina-
per iSnufe h thand 3t the rate of 150 words
abk° r nerformfi ° f this , age !t is a trul y remark-
nf this snJla a Ii Ce ’ and ot her intending pupils
or apply P peSnally rSe at Sh ° Uld the C ° Uege
The DACOMB College,
Personal and Correspondence Courses,
Tresgrave Buildings,
nr. Howey Place & ILit. Collins St., Melb.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(.near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
AT
THE
GATEWAY »rSYDINEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet, just around the
corner, within two
minutes' walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
Melbourne
Chatter
Two days before the King’s death it
was decided that, owing to the gravity
of his Majesty’s illness, all pageantry
would be omitted from the swearing-in
of Lord Gowrie as Governor-General.
On Tuesday, when the nation was
plunged into mourning, the ceremony
was postponed from Wednesday to
Thursday, when it was held with severe
formality and brevity. Morning dress
was worn, and there was no glitter of
uniforms. Ministers and a few State
officials were present, but the galleries
were empty, for all invitations had been
cancelled. Lady Gowrie did not accom-
pany her husband to Melbourne.
Many women’s movements are send-
ing special cables and letters of sym-
pathy to members of the royal family.
One such cable read: “The National
Council of Women of Australia, repre-
senting over 200,000 women, humbly
offers its love, loyalty and sympathy to
the Queen-mother in her hour of sor-
row.” Thirty thousand Victorian women
shared in another message: “Members of
the Australian Women’s Nationalist
League offer loyal and deepest sympathy,
and mourn the loss of our beloved and
revered King.” The wreath which the
League ordered was of flowers in the
League colors —purple and gold.
In her book Kings, Commoners and
Me, Gertrude Massey gives some inti-
mate impressions of members of the
royal family. Round about the first
decade of the century Mrs. Massey, en-
gaged to paint miniatures of royal per-
sonages, visited Buckingham Palace,
Sandringham and Balmoral. On King
Edward Vll.’s order she painted the
royal children while their parents, the
Prince and Princess of Wales, were visit-
ing the outskirts of Empire in the Ophir.
She was particularly fond of young
Prince Edward, now Edward VIII. —a
“real boy,” happy and healthy, with a
mischievous twinkle in his eye. One
day he followed Mrs. Massey when she
went to wash the paints from her hands.
“May I pour out the water for you?”
said the young Prince. “Thank you
very much,” said Mrs. Massey. Edward
filled the basin carefully, and, timing his
actions just as carefully, dropped the
soap at the critical moment so that Mrs.
Massey got most of the splash. Then
he ran like a streak of lightning. Out-
side he waited to usher the artist down-
stairs, with an expression of solemnity, a
very low bow and a polite “Ladies first.”
Visiting Melbourne are Mr. and Mrs.
Lax Peadon, from New Guinea. The
couple have witnessed the opening up of
the territory from the days before avia-
tion conquered dense jungles, high moun-
tains and hot, sticky valleys. Mrs.
Peadon, who was the first woman to
penetrate the Uncontrolled Area, made
her first journey from Madang to Upper
Ramu on foot—a three weeks’ march.
She says she is never lonely, for her
days are as fully occupied as those of
any busy city woman. She rises with
the sun at about 6.30, supervises the
boys’ house-cleaning, prepares a meal
called “brunch” at eleven, bakes bread,
sews, reads and spends hours tending her
garden, where she grows passionfruit
larger than turkey eggs, mulberries,
strawberries, rhubarb and all sorts of
flowers.
The area round the ’drome at Upper
Ramu is undulating grassland, so that
it is grass, not jungle creepers, which
the boys have to weed from Mrs. Pea-
don s flower-beds and orchard. The
altitude is 5500 ft. above sea-level; hot-
water bottles and eiderdowns are used
every night, but fires for warmth are
never lit, because nearly all the houses
are made of grass. Four miles down
the mountain, where Mr. Peadon on his
r^. tu ™ w iU build a new home (this time
u m b er )> luxuriant orchids bloom in
the forest and birds-of-paradise show no
tear of human beings. The country is
criss-crossed by swiftly flowing streams,
their waters far too cold for bathing.
Mrs. Peadon has been through many
adventures: she was in an aeroplane
crash, and during her first year in the
Uncontrolled Area saw her home and
all she possessed burnt to a cinder in
10 minutes. When lan Mack was mor-
tally wounded by natives, she nursed him
until he could be taken to Salamoa
Hospital.
Economical housekeeping is necessary
in New Guinea. When the ’plane service
first started, Bd. per pound was the
charge on all freight; now the rate is
reduced to sd. Recently tooth-extraction
cost Mrs. Peadon, with fares and a few
days at the hotel in Wau, £24. She runs
her own dairy—over 100 head of cattle
were brought up on foot by her husband
and her brother—but New Guinea dairy-
ing is quite unlike ours. Seven cows
are milked once per day. The quality of
the milk is all right, but the quantity is
a long way below Australian standard.
The heat of Sydney and the flies of
Melbourne are nothing, according to a
man who has just returned to Melbourne
from a geological trip to Tennant’s
Creek and Alice Springs. The inhabi-
tants of that area look upon discomforts
as part of the day’s work. There’s a
weekly train from Quorn to the Alice,
alternately passenger and freight, the trip
taking two nights and a day. The pas-
senger train has a dining-car and
sleepers, but if the traveller takes the
freight he must make shift to sleep on
the seat, and his tucker comes out of
his own swag. The freight passengers
exchange their food, and those who have
plenty are always willing to share with
those who have none. The crew of the
“goods” consists of six men, who work
in shifts of three.
A few weeks ago the whole freight
went hungry, for heavy rain had fallen ;
lakes arrived as if by magic, the heat
and damp sent all the meat bad, and
long green fungi appeared on the bread.
Quorn was a very welcome sight to the
travellers.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs.
A. W. Foster, wife of the County Court
Judge. Outside his serious office Judge
Foster plays tennis and golf. Mrs. Foster
shares her husband’s interest in the
League of Nations Union, but otherwise
her work and play centre in her
three young children. Joy Wilhelmina,
the only girl and the eldest of the trio,
already shows promise of being a clever
musician, for she is endowed with that
rarity an ear of perfect pitch. At a
tender age she passed two music exams.,
and will sit for Grade IV within a few
days of her eighth birthday.
Friday the 13 th held no fears for a
couple who chose that date in December
for their marriage in London. The bride
was Frances Laurie, only daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. W. S. Laurie, of Sefton,
the place East Camberwell, and the
]groom James Walker, who used to live
in Sydney and is now assistant musical
director and assistant conductor for the
Markov-Dolin Ballet, playing at the
Duke of York’s Theatre. Mrs. Walker
also has artistic inclinations, hers being
chiefly literary. She has tried her hand
at writing plays, and has had poems and
short stories accepted by Australian
newspapers.
When wedding plans are changed at
the eleventh hour it means work and
worry for the bride and her mother.
Mrs. Coxon-Young did not expect recep-
tion responsibilities, for she’d engaged
No. 9 Darling-street for the party, but,
owing to the death of the King, arrange-
ments had to be altered. Telephoning
and the sending of telegrams to the
guests, and fixing transport for the cake
and its accompaniments to the home of
the bride’s parents, were some of the
problems, and another was accommo-
dating a guest-list of Darling-street pro-
portions at Umbilo ; but friendly infor-
mality made up for lack of ballroom.
The bride, elder daughter Joyce, was
given away by her father in St. Andrew’s
C. of E., Brighton. The ’groom was
peof Macartney, and the white-clad
’maids, who carried hydrangeas, were the
bride’s sister Gwenneth, Kathleen Mac-
artney, Florence Salmon and Irma Scott.
For a week or more tennis people have
had their eyes turned on Adelaide for
the Australian championships. The
Broothorn portrait is of Gwen Steven-
son, who, with her younger lister Dot,
went over from Melbourne to compete
in several events of the tournament. Mrs.
E. A. Stevenson accompanied her daugh-
ters on their sporting holiday.
Old customs die hard. St. Kilda baths
were built for the segregation of the
sexes. A few years ago mixed bathing
was tried, but abandoned owing to com-
plaints made by the women. It is
thought that there will be strong opposi-
tion to the proposal put forward by Cr.
F. L. Dawkins that mixed bathing might
be given another chance. The arguments
are: For, that, while the men’s baths are
packed, the women’s are practically
empty ; against, that women who aren’t
quite so young have not grown up
to feel that brief bathing suits are
the most natural things in the world.
Also, they don’t like the noisy, splashing
ragamuffins who seem to be everywhere
at once. The best plan to please every-
body would be to have three divisions,
but the cheapest is to pull down the
fence, allowing men one end of the
baths, women the other, and mixed in
the centre.
For the second year in succession
Hinemoa Rosieur has won the Melba
Scholarship. Her entrance and success
were by proxy, for she is now on a
broadcasting tour of M.L. The direc-
tor, Fritz Hart, awarded the scholarship
on the young singer’s general progress
and development.
Dr. and Mrs. Garnet Leary and their
daughter Pat sailed off for Europe last
week in the Stuart Star. Dr. Leary is
an Ulsterman, and is endowed with the
gift of getting along with children. He
knows as much as anyone in Australia
about stammering, its cause and cure,
and by his knowledge, patience and sym-
pathy can put an afflicted child at its
ease, which in many cases is the first
step towards a cure.
As the tail-end to a trip abroad, Hilda
Gill, of the staff of Adelaide Con., has
been spending a short holiday in Mel-
bourne. She made a special trip to Italy
to stay with Italian friends in Florence,
pursued musical festivals on the Con-
tinent, and has been twice to Mozart’s
town, Salzburg.
Sheila Morell is among the minority
of lucky people who are having trips to
England two years running. The family
home in Clendon-road has been sold, and
in April Miss Morell and her parents
say au revoir to Melbourne for at least
seven months.
Sheila and Jean Macneil are welcom-
ing a Scottish guest, Edith Dunlop, of
Ayrshire. On her way out Miss Dunlop
broke her journey in Ceylon. Later on
she has promised to visit Queensland,
where more friends are ready to show
her another phase of Australian life.
Mr. and Mrs. Phil Jacobs embarked
in the Neptuna for New Guinea. From
Salamoa the couple will fly to Wau to
visit their daughter, Mrs. John Capie-
Thomson. Mrs. Jacobs has never been
up before, and isn’t quite sure how she’ll
feel when the time comes to go sailing
off among the clouds. In the same ship
Mrs. Ernest Jones went off for her second
trip to Hong Kong. She also intends to
fly to Wau, but ’planes are not unfamiliar
to her, for she has made several trips
with her husband as pilot.
As it is almost impossible to go
directly to South America from Aus-
tralia, Mrs. Doris Campbell decided that
a round-the-world trip arranged by the
O.S.K. line was as suitable as any other
roundabout route. To pick up the
Manila Maru in Colombo, she left this
week in the Mongolia. The Manila
Maru sails to Durban, where Mrs. Camp-
bell has planned to break her journey,
picking up the Rio de Janeiro Maru for
Buenos Ayres. After a stopover in
South America the traveller will catch
another Maru steamer for New Orleans,
through Panama to Los Angeles, and
across the Pacific to Japan. By way of
Singapore she will reach Colombo, her
original starting-point in the Japanese
schedule.
After two years’ study abroad con-
tralto Adele McKay has returned to Mel-
bourne. Miss McKay worked in Lon-
don under the direction of Hermann
Greenbaum and Sir Henry Wood, and
indulged in a round of concerts and
opera. She says that opera is drawing
such crowds that seats are booked up
months ahead. She saw “Prince Igor,”
which may be produced in Australia by
a Russian co. this year, and the new
opera “Koanga,” which can hardly be
called a success. The plot is laid in the
Quaker-negro-spiritual atmosphere of
New England, but there are few out-
standing spurts of brilliance to relieve
the monotony of the strange musical
experiment. John Brownlee was
“Koanga’s” star performer.
Scratch-golfer Alan Box is getting his
clubs and other gear ready for a trip
overseas. He wants to have a look at
Africa on the way, and will break his
journey in an Orient liner to fly from
Cairo to Nairobi. All sorts of unex-
pected things are liable to happen when
golfers with large bags of heavy clubs
book seats in aeroplanes. In 1933, when
Sarazen and Kirkwood were playing
exhibition matches in South America,
they travelled 20,000 miles in 40 days by
Pan-Pacific ’planes (which dose of air-
travelling completely cured Sarazen of
his desire to learn to fly). At one stop-
ping place a passenger of such abnormal
weight and girth turned up that, to make
things safe, Sarazen and Kirkwood had
to leave their heavy clubs behind.
There is a wide gulf between a pig
farm and a dress shop ; but Mary Russell
has always had a hankering to raise
porkers, and to help the dream material-
ise has opened a dress shop. If things
go well the dresses will make capital to
float the pigs. The name written across
the face of the little shop is Rustle.


MORE
PEPSQDENT TOOTH PASTE
FOR YOUR MONEY
in new larger tubes
at no increase
in price!
In 67 different countries over a
Hundred million tubes of Pepsodent
have been sold. Year after year
people have gladly bought Pepsodent
rather than endanger teeth by buying
harsh gritty toothpaste. What more
convincing evidence could there be
that Pepsodent really does REMOVE
FILM SAFELY?
And now a way has been
found to give you new
economy with the old proved
effectiveness. New processes
have cut costs. The new
large size Pepsodent tube
contains 10% more tooth-
paste than formerly. It sells
for the same prices yet the
formula is identically the
same. In every way Pepso-
dent is the same scientific
product that has
won world - wide
fame as the special
film - removing
toothpaste. Take
advantage of this
new saving now.
5
PEPSODENT
ro
ih
0%
D
>
r*
so
>
tel
0U»
UriS
■
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING TOOTHPASTE— NO IF IN LARGER TUBES
FREE PATTERN
Frock for Sports and General
Wear
A Charming- and Practical Frock which
will be of interest to everyone. It
may be worn as a Sports Frock, but
is equally fitting for everyday wear.
°7tu>
AU S T FLA L I A N
WOMANS
MIRROR
ON SALE FRIDAY.
SPECIAL OFFER!
CHOICE OF 15 PATTERNS FREE,
including SPORTS FROCK.
FASHION FEATURE
A Small Son’s Wardrobe.
A SHOWGIRL AND BEAUTY
NEWS FROM HOLLYWOOD
Films and Players.
MAKING PAPER FLOWERS
£250 BABY COMPETITION
Sixth Series of Pictures
64
PAGES
FOR
D
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
While men were still at work on the
fa?ade of the Adelphi Hotel, close on
500 people entered the portals for a party
given by the West Perth branch of the
National party. There was dancing in
the ballroom, where concealed goldy
lights diffused a glow over the pastel-
toned mural decorations and the rich
ruby-red velvet curtains. Bridge tables
were set in the comfortable lounges, and
sitting-out accommodation was provided
in the entrance hall and on the roof-
garden.
National-party president knight Walter
James escorted his daughter, Mrs.
Barney Walsh, who trod a measure
in black-white-and-green-plaid taffetas.
Mrs. Allan Drake-Brockman flecked her
persimmon crepes with gold lamd, Mrs.
E. H. Fothergill spilled a floral bouquet
on her creamy georgettes, Mrs. W. Sar-
rell’s beige chenille georgettes shimmered
over blush pink, organdie frills wafted
on Mrs. D. Lindsay’s spring-green con-
fection, and Jean Fothergill ran a light-
ning stride across her azalea-pink matt
crepes.
Molly Mahood and Charles McGlew
were yoked into double harness at St.
George’s Cathedral, with the Ven. Arch-
deacon Riley to buckle the straps. The
bride paced down the aisle with a string
of seed pearls on the long cowl neck of
her ivory satins, a bridle of the gems to
hold in place the yards of tulle veiling
and a heavy studding at the wrists of the
long, tight-fitting sleeves. Two magnolia
blooms, complete with buds and foliage,
balanced the long inlet train. Mary
Forrest, Joan McLeod and Pat Leake
followed, their white-lacquered silk nets
swirling over taffeta, with capey sleeves,
lily-of-the-valley posies and white pleated-
net hats. Mrs. Mahood, with lustrous
pink and gold on her black georgettes,
feasted some hundreds at the Esplanade.
Mickie Amsberg has her engagement-
book well filled with bride-elect parties
to be given in her honor. A brace which
have taken place are Mrs. E. A. Wright
and Kathleen Tracy’s “saucepan even-
ing” and Florrie Ledger’s sherry party,
where Micky appeared in black-and-
white polka-dot matt crepe and the
hostess was swathed in floral georgettes.
To celebrate the birthday of Com-
mander R. Griffiths Bowen his home in
Swanbourne was inundated by a number
of friends who organised a surprise party.
Mrs. Griffiths Bowen slipped into a frock
of burgundy crepe satin.
Only a few intimate friends were
present at the marriage of Beatrice Tier-
nan to Robert Martin, of Bristol, Eng-
land, which took place at Christ Church,
Claremont. The bride’s matelasse en-
semble was in two shades of blue, offset
by a sheaf of pink roses and gladioli.
After the ceremony Mrs. H. Clarkson,
wearing a smart suit of navy taffeta, hos-
tessed a morning-tea party at her home
in Fremantle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There have been great attendances at
the tennis matches, largely of women
loaded with luncheon, cushions and sun-
shades, the last permissible only on the
top seat of the stands. Considering the
high charge for admission, the association
might have done more for the comfort of
the spectators, who have had to squat on
low seats with no backs, the feet of the
people behind rubbing against the backs
of those in front, and no shelter over-
head.
Seventy guests were entertained at the
official luncheon given in the clubhouse.
Afternoon-tea was conducted upon picnic
lines, the visitors carrying their tea and
cake out upon the lawns and sitting in
little groups. Many linen frocks were
worn, dusky pink first favorite in color,
while gay floral-patterned fabrics made
the stands look like a flower-bed in the
distance.
Over 75 couples gyrated at the dinner-
dance at the South Australian to enter-
tain the players from other States. Mrs.
Harry Hopman’s sapphire-blue organdie
was trimmed with frills, and sported a
small cape of the same material. Joan
Hartigan chose magnolia satin, the low-
cut back outlined with satin roses. Kath-
leen Woodward was in leaf-green net;
May Blick wore white taffeta flowered in
blue and red, with deep frills round the
shoulders and waistline. Sadie Berriman’s
white georgette had wing draperies to the
knees. Edna Lawrence’s georgette frock
was flowered in yellow, red and white
poppies. The Stoddart twins since they
have both become engaged are not
dressed exactly alike, as they used to be.
For this occasion Pat chose white
georgette, and her sister black lace.
Roma Wadey’s Spanish-red matelasse,
with sash-ends in primrose and deep
pink, made a splash of color.
Captain and Mrs. Nelson Clover, who
came from England for the golden wed-
ding of Mrs. Clover’s parents, Sidney
Kidman and his lady, and have spent
the last year in Mr. and Mrs. Way
Campbell’s house at Medindie, will
shortly return to England, accompanied
by daughter Pamela and son Robin. The
young man has been gaining experience
on Corona station, and a recently
acquired knowledge of woolclassing will
be of service to him in an English job.
Lady Twyford (England) and her
daughter Ennis, who are visiting relatives
in Adelaide, were the guests of the social
committee of the Hospitallers’ Club at
morning-tea at the Wentworth.
Warm weather was responsible for a
galaxy of color at the Gawler Jockey
Club meeting. Scarlet was favored for
sunshades and shoes. The chairman’s
wife (Mrs. F. Barnett) was gowned in
black crepe de Chine, figured in green
and white and worn with a wide-
brimmed black straw hat. Mrs. S. J.
Jacobs topped her black-and-white-
patterned marocain with a small black
hat. Mrs. F. A. Tennant sported a white
silk tailored suit, with which went a red
bag and sunshade. Her hat was of navy-
and-white-spotted stitched silk.
Mrs. Alan M. Colvin, of Joslin, is liv-
ing in a whirl of farewell parties prior
to leaving for her new home in Brisbane
on February 6. Her husband is already
in Queensland, and in the meantime Mrs.
Colvin is the guest of Mrs. P. A.
Mcßride at Glen Osmond.
Mrs. Dudley Hayward was hostess at
a cocktail party at her North Adelaide
home to welcome her son, E. W. Hay-
ward, and his wife, who have returned
from overseas.
TASMANIA.
Glorious weather drew everybody to
Elwick. Chairman Eric Johnson and his
wife dispensed hospitality in the commit-
tee’s rooms. The Governor and Lady
Clark were there, and several of the
Jervis Bay passengers. Dressing was
smarter than usual, and big hats and
flowery frocks were to be seen every-
where. Mrs. Eric Johnson was in navy
with big white spots, topped by a large
hat.
Western district bachelors spread
themselves over their ball at the
Foresters’ Hall, Longford. Seventeen of
them formed the committee, with John
Wallis as secretary. Streamers in gold
and pale yellow, balloons and greenery
decorated the hall. Supper was served
at the Blenheim Hotel. Guests came
from Launceston and the whole country-
side, and most of the country houses
entertained visitors from the mainland
or from England. Heather Cooper, of
Longford Hall, was a charming deb. in
white miroir satin, with a little silver
bow in her hair.
Molly Scott and Nicholas Stilwell were
the first to be married in the Collegiate
School chapel. It was a morning func-
tion, but the little chapel was crowded
with friends, who went on to a reception
at the bride’s parents’ home afterwards.
The wedding garment, white net over
white satin, went with a big white picture
hat. Margaret Hood ’maided in blue,
and two wee nephews attended as pages
in blue and white.
Mrs. J. E. C. Lord, Betty Yencken,
Margaret Hood and Edyth Bisdee were
among the hostesses who gave parties in
Molly’s honor before her wedding. They
were all intimate affairs, at the hostesses
own homes.
Launceston wool sales resulted more
cheerily even than those in Hobart, and
the town was packed with pastoralists
and their wives and families, all wearing
the broadest of smiles. The Alan
Camerons invited a big crowd to a cock-
tail-party at the Bridge Club rooms while
everyone was in town, in honor of then
guest Sheila Morell (Melb.), who ha ;
been staying with them at Lochiel, Ross
The hostess sported pink, and Miss
Morell was in black and red.
Lady Clark was at the Lyceum Club
to hear Dr. J. Bean’s lecture on the
poetry of T. E. Browne. A fair num-
ber of members and guests rolled up anc
enjoyed the lecturer’s enthusiastic anc
intimate style.
Mrs. H. Minton Taylor, of Sydney
is in Hobart, visiting friends and rela;
tives. She has not long since
from England, where she and her hus-
band spent a long holiday.
Mrs. Forrest and daughter Nancy
from Queensland, are paying a visit to
Ferntree. They have been abroad since
they were last in the Speck.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Patents.
IMPROVED PROCESS FOR SACCHARI-
FYING CELLULOSE AND THE LIKE
UNDER PRESSURE WITH DILUTE
ACIDS.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
456/31 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the grant-
ing of a license to make, use and vend the in-
vention within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Personal.
SHORT-STORIES WANTED; Romantic plots
with Australian atmosphere but no slang
figures of speech; for publication in English,
American and Indian periodicals. Lengths,
1-5 thous. Send stamp with MSS. (NOT
stamped envelope).—S. CHRISTOPHER
ROBINSON, Film, Dramatic and Literary
Agents, 37 Mortimer Market, London, W.C.I,
England.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you
price for the original.
INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS
for Hard-working Conditions
Where the work is hardest . . . and wear
and tear is greatest—lngot Work Trousers
will prove their worth.
They keep their shape and are colour-fast.
Even repeated boilings will not give them
that “washed-out” appearance. And wear
—you’ll be pleasantly surprised at the
length of time it takes to wear them out.
Made in Australia from
Australian Cotton
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Nagheer”: A good Australian and a
true lover of good horses went west with
Edward McDonagh, at Exley station
(N.Q.). Born in Victoria, he adventured
as a jackeroo to Greenvale station, despite
the fact that' Victoria of those days—
much as now —regarded our Awful
Tropic North as the White Man’s Grave.
He jackerooed, joined the Telegraph
Department, lived for 40 years at Mt.
McConnell, married, brought up a
family, bought a station, retired, managed
the station with his sons, sold it well,
kept on retiring and emerging to do
something new. But a good little horse
was Ned’s hobby—and Townsville and
the Bowen River can testify that he did
well out of it. The climate got him at
last —at 84.
* * *
“Zedo”: A lot of the trouble and
bad feeling produced by the landing of
Japanese lugger crews in Northern Aus-
tralia would be solved by the establish-
ment of a few coastguard stations, which
could be made official landing places at
which permits could be granted. While
there is nearly 2000 miles of coast in
one stretch without an official of any
description on it, unofficial landings are
inevitable. Though they are nothing
new —15 years ago a man from Mars,
dropped down on parts of the Cape
York coast, might have thought that he
had missed his Australian target and hit
a bit of Nippon.
* * H= *
“Z.T.”: A German resident got the
shock of his life when he came before
the Rabaul Supreme Court a few days
ago, charged with abducting a native
woman of a primitive tribe. He was
sentenced by Judge Wanliss to seven
years’ gaol. A salutary sentence or two
of the same sort in the Northern Terri-
tory might save a lot of murders of
whites. Women are at the bottom of
most killings, though a few are due to
whites camping on sacred places. Only
where natives are semi-civilised is the
motive the cupidity of the slayers.
* * * *
“Phalanger”: How about a bit of
possum-farming? The islands off the
Queensland coast lend themselves admir-
ably to the purpose. In the good old
days the abo. killed off all the possums,
and, with the possible exception of some
of the bigger islands, there isn’t a ring-
tail on any of ’em. Dent, the lighthouse
island, is an exception. Almost bare of
trees, it is crawling with possums. A
few years back a keeper, on being trans-
ferred, liberated a pet pair. They obeyed
the Biblical injunction, while accommo-
dating themselves to the conditions.
They lived on grass, of which there is
plenty, sipped dew in preference to visit-
ing the only spring on the island, and
dwelt in cracks in rocks. Four or five
years back an optimist cleared an acre
or so of scrub and put in bananas.
When he went to admire progress he
found that the possums had been there
first. There was only the clearing in
the scrub to mark where the plants had
stood.
* * * *
“A.P.”: Lacking only three years of
the century, another victim of the fierce
Queensland climate, Mrs. Sarah Rad-
cliffe, died near Brisbane on January 10.
She left Tasmania for Queensland in
1861 with her husband and three chil-
dren. At Oxley Creek her husband built
a primitive sugar-mill, in which some of
Queensland’s very early sugar was pro-
duced. The mill was worked by one
horse; the rollers to squeeze out the
juice from the cane were made of iron-
bark. Heavy winter frosts for years in
succession ruined that enterprise. The
family is well known—one son (Oliver)
was chief inspector of schools, and a
grandson, with M.C. and M.A. after his
name, is headmaster at the C. of E.
Boys’ School, Southport, Queensland.
v * * *
“80P”: Queensland is making a bid
for traffic on the “Sunshine Route” with
a weird innovation. It will no longer
be necessary to wear overalls and a gas-
mask to keep out the coal from one’s
eyes and lungs. Oil-fuel engines, if you
please! The seats in the observation car
are to be arranged longitudinally, and to
be stepped down so that the impulse to
shoot chewing-gum, and what not, on
lower-down bald heads can be freely
indulged in. Uninterrupted view is
promised—it is proposed to slide the
car foof back so that passengers can go
the limit in scenery, with the lid off. A
guy to talk through a loudspeaker and
tell the world is provided for. The
rumor that he is to be imported is
“Funny the instructor never holds me like that!”
denied. Anyway, they have called for
tenders for the loudspeaker—mechanical
variety. For those who like to be kept
“fully informed on the scenery” the
scheme is fine. The feelings of those
who do not can be left to imagination.
* * * *
“Vic”: The old s.s. Maheno, sold to
Japan, has had more publicity in her
death throes than most vessels. She
went ashore on Fraser Island, off
the Queensland coast. Newspapermen
pursued her by aeroplane, and sal-
vage companies hover round her, for she
is a valuable “wreck.” Just when she
seemed to be dead as news, the local
customs officer decided to get married on
board. His job is to watch the wreck,
so he must keep handy. His bride used
the captain’s cabin as a boudoir, the
saloon was the chapel and the honey-
moon will be spent in the palatial dwell-
ing, which has been hastily erected near
by—a 14ft. by 18ft. wood-and-canvas
shack.
* if *
“Sailor”: The latest sampan stir
reminds me of an occasion when Nippon-
ese were reported in Mandated Territory
waters and the Franklin, complete with
a departmental crew, set out in pursuit.
By some freak of luck the sampan was
overhauled and the crew brought to
Rabaul. The fuel pump of her Diesel was
removed while the necessary inquiry was
being held. One of the Jap engineers
arrived at the harbormaster’s office one
morning and asked whether he could have
the pump for an hour or two so that the
engine might be tried out. He got it, and
in just the space of time necessary to
replace the pump the sampan was under
way. One despairing look, and Official-
dom realised that, with several hours
necessary to raise steam in the Franklin’s
boilers, pursuit would be futile.
“Peter Prospect”: “Gain” (B.
13/11/ ’36) is wrong. The New Guinea
shilling has something symbolic of the
territory, but you need a microscope to
see it. We admit it is undernourished
and has that unattractive ring generally
associated with a tin-antimony mixture,
but a quite good string of dog’s-teeth
currency, engraved, apparently, under a
high-power microscope, adorns one side,
and carvings suggesting Maori work are
cunningly hidden on the reverse.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Since Edward VIII. became King a
perfect flood of reminiscences has been
unloosed. “Do you remembers?” in-
cluded incidents at the State Ball in what
now is the Taxation Department build-
ing ; the huge Shakspeare Ball in a
woolstore at Bulimba ; the public recep-
tion at New Farm Park, when an ex-
hausted Prince was galloped round the
enclosure. We all were younger then, and
all agog to see who would be chosen as
the royal partner. To lovely Mary Grant,
daughter of General Grant (all Diggers
like the General), fell the distinction. She
is Mrs. Bob Sword now, and lives out
in the Longreach district.
The year has started with the usual
rush overseas. Mrs. R. T. Calder and
Mollie are off to England in the Bal-
ranald early in April; and Agnes Barker,
who has left by the Ormonde, had
a round of tea-parties before she
settled down to arrange the lavish arm-
fuls of flowers that filled her cabin. Mrs.
M. Finney and Dulcie Jensen were two
of the eleventh-hour hostesses. Isa Wylie
also left for foreign parts on the
Ormonde. Kitty Wylie and Nell Kirk
rattled the teacups for her at the Port-
land Lounge a day or two before she
sailed.
Betty Hooper, of Toowoomba is en-
gaged to James Pettigrew. Lots of tour-
ists will remember Jimmy. He is the
purser on s.s. Nankin.
Mrs. Forgan Smith and Mrs. Percy
Pease were joint hostesses at a tea at
Rowe’s Cafe for Grace Pattullo, the
Canadian girl essayist. Mrs. A. E.
Moore, who was among the guests, added
a few kind words to the speeches of wel-
come made by the hostesses. Grace now
has gone to the Barrier Reef.
The Robert Robinsons, over from
California, were guests of honor at a
party at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Mure Robinson, whose daughter, Mrs.
C. H. Lang, was hostess. Mrs. Lang,
who is known to all her old school
friends as Sweetie, is up from Adelaide
on a holiday.
W. A. Blake flew south to meet his
homing wife, the soprano Beatrice Pugh.
Beatrice has been in London for some
time, and stopped in Maoriland to do
some broadcasts. She crossed to Sydney
in the Niagara.
Interesting passengers arrived on the
Merkur in the persons of Mrs. E. M.
Clarence (an Australian by birth, but'
her home has been in England for some
20 years) and daughter Cecily. Cecily
studied at the Academy of Dramatic
Art, London, and has toured with Irene
Vanburgh and acted in London with
Athene Seyler.
Boys outshone the girls in this year’s
State scholarship examinations. The
Lilley medallists were Dorothy Isabel
Arthur and Oscar Arno Kindervater. The
lass, who is 13, was born in S.A., but has
lived most of her little life in England
and Scotland, which accounts for her
broad Scots accent. Her pass was 88.4.
Oscar, aged 12, with 88.2 points, has
won first prize in his class each year
since he began school. He is a pupil of
Maryborough Central, which now has
collected a Lilley medal twice in three
years.
No sooner had Nell and David
Gordon-Duff got over the round of
welcome teas and five-to-seven parties
arranged on their arrival from Colombo
than the rush of farewell gatherings
commenced. They are off to Scotland
to see the Gordon-Duff relatives before
returning to their home in Ceylon.
When Prue Gross marries pianist Jim
Wallis she will return to Brisbane to
live. Prue is the daughter of the late
Ewald Gross and Mrs. Gross, who will
be remembered by oldsters as songstress
Marie Collins, a little Dresden-china
lady with lovely dark eyes and a con-
tralto that would have taken her far had
she not preferred matrimony to a career.
Flora Cran is on the way home after
a long holiday in California, where she
was the guest of Doris Drake, a connec-
tion by marriage, and her parents. Flora
saw everything possible, and met several
screen stars. There is some talk of her
seeking a screen career for herself when
she comes back to Australia.
Goondiwindi Presbyterian Church was
crowded for the wedding of Betty
Watson, fourth daughter of Mrs. Watson
and the late George Watson, of Tanda-
wanna, to James Walker Davidson, third
son of Commissioner for Railways and
Mrs. Davidson. E. G. Spence, of Kiona,
Toobeah, gave the bride away. She
wore magnolia satin, a Brussels-lace veil
(lent by her sister, Mrs. J. A. McColl),
and carried a bouquet of frangipanni.
Three ’maids, Eileen Russell, of Jimbour,
and Stella and Leslie Watson (sisters),
wore frocks of cyclamen georgette with
butterfly-wing sleeves and girdles of
violet and cyclamen. Their head-
dresses were choux of flowers to match
the girdles, and they carried mauve
gladioli.


BUILD
THE LITTLE TWIN
COMPLETE KIT OF BEST-QUALITY
PARTS, including Valves,
Batteries and Phones.
PRICE
£5
Completely Assembled and Tested,
including Royalty Plate - - £6/5/-
ALUMINIUM
Chassis, Panels, Boxes, etc., .cut
and bent while you wait. Charges,
Jd. per sq. inch; bending free.
Price’s Radio Service,
D. G. McINTYRE, Prop.,
5 & 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
m
\>
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. $
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORM
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA435?-
RADIO NEWS
THE LITTLE TWIN.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
In these days of combination valves it is an easy matter to design
a simple short-wave receiver of modest dimensions for headphone
reception, using dry-battery power. T.he Class-B twin-battery valve makes
possible such small receivers in which a double-triode serves as regenerative
detector and audio stage. This receiver possesses original features in the
chassis arrangement, and is, in effect, a two-valve receiver with a
remarkable performance. It is ideal for country use, requiring only a
single 45-volt light-duty battery for plate voltage and taking only five
or six milliamperes current.
The newcomer to short-wave reception
can hardly credit that a small receiver
using a single valve with one audio stage
is capable of doing just the same, in pro-
portion, as a big, expensive superhet with
a formidable valve array. The difference
is in detection of the signal and what is
done to it after detection. The big super-
het puts the signal through various
Fig. 1. —The receiver, using transformer-coupling for the
audio stage.
changes, and brings it out with a backing
of high audio power to drive loud-
speakers. The humble detector of re-
generative variety picks up the same
signal and, if an audio stage is used, in-
variably makes this loud enough to enjoy
comfortably via headphones. The small
receiver has obvious advantages. It can
be used at any time without disturbing
the household or neighbors, and there is
little or nothing
to go wrong elec-
trically. There
are many ways
of employing a
triode detector to
control oscillation
and regeneration,
but, no matter
what the method,
the secret of suc-
cess lies in per-
fectly smooth
control. If the de-
tector is subject
to harsh oscilla-
tion or “back-
lash” it is little
short of useless,
for it cannot be
used in a sensi-
tive condition. In this Little Twin re-
ceiver, the oscillation control is by the
familiar “throttle” condenser method,
which calls for no tapped coils, but uses
the plain grid and plate coil arrangement.
The two circuit diagrams show alterna-
tives for the audio-coupling. In Fig. 1 a
3i-to-l ratio audio transformer is used,
and this has the advantage that a maxi-
mum of 45 volts is all the plate power
necessary. In Fig. 2 resistance-coupling
is used. Both methods are equally effec-
tive, but 90 volts should be used with
the latter. A six-ohm rheostat is included
in the filament circuit, so that two
volt cells in series can be used. The large-
sized Ever-Ready C cells are ideal for
the purpose, and, of course, a two-volt
accumulator can be employed normally
with the rheostat full on. The tuning
and oscillation con-
trol condensers are
of .00015mfd. capa-
city, and some
variation here is
permissible. Many
old types of vari-
ab 1 e condensers
can be pressed into
service in this re-
ceiv e r, provided
they are of good
construction and
noiseless in action.
If the reader de-
sires the best, the
J.B. .00015mfd.
type is recom-
mended for tuning.
Chassis Its Own Panel.
Examination of the illustrations will
show that an unusual form of chassis has
been adopted, whereby construction has
been considerably simplified. The writer
used a 17in. length of 16-gauge
aluminium, 6in. in width, bent to the
shape shown. By marking out the posi-
tions for the bends and cutting deep lines
with a steel scriber, the aluminium is
Fig. 2. —The resistance-coupled version. Higher plate voltage
is necessary here.
easily bent into shape over square-edged
wooden blocks. Allowance should be
made for angles, fin. wide, so that the
finished receiver can be screwed to a
wooden or metal base for the sake of
rigidity. The tuning condenser, reaction
condenser and rheostat mount conveni-
ently on the sloping front panel, with the
valve on the sloping rear panel and coil
socket and audio transformer on the rear
shelf. A four-pin valve socket with plug,
fitted at the rear, serves for battery con-
nections in the usual way.
Construction and Coils.
In many ways the constructor can suit
individual requirements in building small
receivers of this type. The use of lfin.-
diameter coil forms is not, for instance,
imperative. If the reader has on hand
any of the earlier type of large-diameter
26 D.S.C. coils, these are quite suitable.
Valve-base coils can also be employed,
and at this stage it is well to mention
that with two coils, suitably wound, the
receiver can be used for ordinary broad-
cast reception. Many country people like
to use such little receivers, and it is re-
markable just how good results can be
in this respect in some locations. The
Fig. 3. —The receiver is designed on an unusual form of chassis, which
also serves as a front panel.
writer used the well-known Marquis
formers for the coils, with four-pin bases.
A four-pin socket is thus used for the
mounting, and this is fitted on small stand-
off pillars on the rear shelf. So long as
the inductive rela-
tionship of grid
and plate coils is
correct for oscil-
lation, it matters
little which pins
are employed, for
the connections. If
there is any doubt
about the correct
way to connect
grid and plate
coils it is well to
mention that if
the start of the
grid coil, from
the top of the
winding, is used
for the grid con-
nection the plate
connection from
the plate coil will
be the finish of
the winding of
that coil. The following windings
will be suitable for the approxi-
mate ranges given, using a .00014mfd. or
.00015mfd. tuning condenser.
Range. Grid. Plate.
15 to 28 metres 5 turns 5 turns
26 to 45 metres 12 turns 8 turns
44 to 90 metres 22 turns 12 turns
(All coils with 28 D.S.C.)
Broadcast Coverage.
200 to 550 metres) 150 turns 40 turns
—two coils f 250 turns 40 turns
(With 30 enamelled.)
As the Class-B valves will not stand a
heavy aerial load, for smooth oscillation,
the aerial series condenser is smaller than
usual. The condenser is made up of two
pieces of springy brass or other metal,
with each plate square. A strip of
bakelite carries the aerial terminal and the
plates, arranged in relationship so that
one can be bent away from the other. The
spacing for the plates must be determined
by test on the particular aerial used.
Note that in Fig. 1 a .25meg. resistor
is connected across the secondary of the
audio transformer. This is a decided aid
to smooth oscillation. Without a resistor
across the secondary there is a tendency
to audio instability as the triode de-
tector regenerates. The R.F. choke is
one of the usual three-honeycomb types
designed for short-wave work. The grid
leak in the transformer-coupled version is
connected from the grid of the first
triode to the A negative, and five megohms
will be found suitable. In the other
arrangement, using resistance audio
coupling, a 2meg. leak is used across the
.OOOlmfd. grid condenser. Smaller values
than smeg. in the transformer-coupled
receiver may cause harsh oscillation.
Care must be taken in connecting up the
grids and plates of the valve to see that
connections to each triode section are
made correctly. If the receiver refuses
to function, leads may have been crossed.
There should be no error in reading the
valve chart of connections, which shows
the valve socket as seen from underneath.
The valve companies supply charts on
application. Any of the popular Class-B
valves can be used, and the types 19, 8240,
PM2B and PM2BA work equally well.
No grid bias battery or bias resistor is
necessary for the audio side, another
advantage of the Class-B valve. Wiring
to the tuned circuits should be done with
16-gauge enamelled copper with insulat-
ing sleeving, and the rest can conveni-
ently be wiring flex. With batteries, head-
phones, aerial and earth connected, ad-
vancement of the variable condenser C 2
should produce smooth oscillation, and
as the dial is rotated telegraphy and many
telephony stations should be heard easily,
particularly around the 31-, 25- and 19-
metre regions. There should be no ques-
tion about hearing such stations as
Daventry, Berlin and Paris around 19
Fig. 4.—Only a small receiver, but capable of very satisfying
results.
ĕ
Fig. 5.-Tipped up for inspection. The
small aerial condenser may be seen, with
the aerial terminal, at the upper right.


GREATER ECONOMY IN OPERATION
WITH
TYPE IC4
TYPE ID4
VALVES
IC4. .. .A new high gain non-micro-
phonic super-control radio frequency
pentode.
airon
1D4....A power output pentode of
overall higher efficiency than any
equivalent.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited
One audio transformer, with ,25meg. resistor.
Resistance-coupling- —One .Olmfd. mica conden-
ser, one 30,000-ohm resistor and one .25-
meg. resistor.
One R.F. choke (not necessary if resistance-
coupled).
One vernier dial.
Three knobs.
One six-ohm rheostat.
Five Marquis four-pin coil formers.
Two four-pin sockets (coil mount and battery
connections).
One four-pin speaker plug (battery connec-
tions).
One six-pin valve socket for 19 valve.
One .OOOlmfd. mica condenser and two- or
five-meg. leak.
One headphone jack and plug (or two ter-
minals).
Terminal for aerial and earth.
Wiring flex, battery leads, etc.
Valves —One two-volt Class-B type, 19, 8240,
PM2B or PM2BA.
One Ever-Ready 45-volt light-duty B battery
(two for resistance-coupling).
Two Ever-Ready C cells or two-volt accumu-
lator.
Headphones, screws, solder, 26 D.S.C. wire
and 30 enamelled.
D. B. K.
More Five-metre DX.
A report from Kenneth lowers, short-
wave editor of “Television and Short-
wave World,” England, states that Mr.
Coulsdon, of experimental station
G2MV, heard a five-metre transmission
from an American amateur station
W2JN on five metres. Signal strength
was R 5, and the distance covered is 2500
miles. The Berlin television transmitter
on six metres is again being heard in
New York, over 3500 miles, and reports
have been confirmed.
Noyes Bros. Distribute Gladstone
Equipment.
In a relatively short space of time
the name “Gladstone” has become known
throughout Australasia as a symbol of
the highest quality in audio and power
equipment. The reason is that the manu-
facturer, H. K. Jones, of Bexley (N.S. W.),
is an engineer who designs with an eye
to a market other than that which deals
in mass-production articles at cut prices.
Gladstone Class-B driver and output
transformers for transmitter modulation
systems are in wide use where the utmost
is desired in audio quality and laboratory
tests on modulator. Class-B driver, out-
put and microphone transformers show
a flat response from 30 to 12,000 cycles,
with no sign of falling off, and a slight
peak-up of 2 db between 7000 and 8000
cycles. A transmitter for controlling
Brisbane police wireless patrol cars was
recently installed using a Gladstone
modulation transformer, and the engineer
responsible writes the manufacturer thus:
The modulation transformer you wound
for me was tested and installed on Sunday.
Results are excellent, and I am perfectly
satisfied with the service you have given
me. Your help in this direction is greatly
Gladstone heavy-duty 500-volt trans-
former for experimental transmitters or
power amplifiers.
appreciated. You may be interested to
know that the transmitter is installed at
Police Barracks and is controlling the wire-
less patrol cars. I travelled to-night in one
of the cars while the transmitter was run
continually for an hour. Route was taken
through well-known h.-t. interference and
trams, and at no time did any interference
show on the transmission, showing that the
field strength is well in excess of average
requirements. Present layout is four 2A3
modulation on to two 800 in push-pull
with plate input of 55 watts. Mod. per-
centage on peaks, 80 per cent.
Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., have recently
been appointed distributors for Glad-
stone audio and power equipment, and
details and price lists are available on
application.
A.W.A. Achievement.
The Sydney receiving station of
A.W.A. has been re-equipped, the work
including the provision of 19 new re-
ceiving instruments—nine more than for-
merly were in use. This station, always
the most important of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere, now outrivals all
similar stations, with the possible excep-
tion of one or two in England and the
U.S.A.
New bank of 19 receivers at Amalgamated Wireless receiving centre,
La Per o use.
Operating from a complex system of
11 aerial arrays on the heights over-
looking the ocean at La Perouse, the re-
ceiving equipment is used for a multi-
plicity of purposes, involving listening to
practically everything on the air. One
new receiver is for use on the commer-
cial band of 600 to 900 metres, another
is for the 36-metres short-wave marine
traffic. Three are being utilised in
“point-to-point” services with various
specific places, such as Noumea, Suva,
Rabaul, Port Moresby and Lord Howe
Island. These receivers also maintain
touch with 18 other coastal stations
stretching around Australia. Two more
are devoted to the Anglo-Australian
radio-telephone service and the Aus-
tralia-Maoriland telephone.
An impression of
the size and power
of some of the
equipment used is
afforded by the fact
that receivers are
accommodated on a
rack 6ft. high, 3ft.
6in. wide and con-
taining 15 valves
associated in super-
het circuits. There
are three exactly
similar sets to serve the dual purpose of
receiving oversea broadcast programmes
for reradiation locally and for experi-
mental telephone reception with oversea
countries.
In case of failure in electrical mains,
six battery receivers are provided.
Forty seconds is sufficient time to switch
over from A.C. to batteries. When the
Duke of Kent and Princess Marina were
married two receivers working on the
diversity principle were employed to
pick up the broadcast wedding cere-
mony. The balance of volume thus
obtained accounted very largely for the
satisfactory reception enjoyed on that
occasion by Australian listeners.
The 19 receivers are installed in the
main receiving hall of the station, in
the centre of which operators are seated
at a control rack, which enables the
tuning and volume to be adjusted finely.
The output of any receiver can be selected
and switched to monitoring loud-
speakers. Without leaving his chair, the
operator “works” the trawlers by tele-
phony. Thus the skipper of the trawler
always knows whether it is time to re-
turn to port with his catch or to con-
tinue fishing.
In another room an operator is con-
stantly on watch for mail ’planes in
service between Sydney and Melbourne
during the time they are within range of
Sydney. At least every 15 minutes
during that time the pilot reports his
position.
Two receivers are reserved for the re-
ception of “special” communications. The
term is wide, covering perhaps the flight
of an aeroplane between Australia and
M.L. and the transmission of a foreign
commercial station, or any particular
Australian or oversea broadcast.
An interesting feature of Sydney re-
ceiving centre is the automatic robot
instruments, by means of which an
operator at A.W.A.’s city office can tune-
in receivers at La Perouse by “remote
control.”
Records for the year ended December
31 last show that two and a quarter
million words were handled by the re-
ceiving centre and the associated trans-
mitting centre at Pennant Hills.
Returns issued recently by the Depart-
ment of Commerce of U.S.A. show on
December 31, 1934, a total of 56.221,784
radio receiving sets in use in the world.
The delay in the issuing of the figures
was caused by the desire of the depart-
ment to obtain an accurate total. Of
these sets nearly one-half, or 25,551,569,
were in U.S.A. The total for the United
Kingdom was 7,055,464, while Germany
had the third-largest total, 6,516,732. The
total for Europe was 22,897,464. Taking
an average of three listeners to each set,
the radio-listening public of the world
can be estimated in excess of 178,000 ; 000
persons.
Tlie Q. and A. Column,
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
I intend buying a radio receiver for use in
Fiji. D.C. power is available, but this is
erratic, and fluctuates between 170 and 240
volts. The generators supplying this are 500
yards away from my house, and are fitted with
“hum-eliminators.” (1) What type of set
should I buy ? (2) I hear a lot about short
waves being particularly interesting. Does this
mean short-wave broadcasting or only ama-
teurs ? —372.
(1) The ideal would be the Wide-World Four
(B. 2/1/’35). This is a simple tuned R.F.
regenerative receiver for short waves and broad-
cast reception. It is exceedingly popular in
New Guinea and the Solomons, and users write
enthusiastically. Obtainable from J. B. Martin,
William-street, Sydney. (2) Short-wave broad-
casting with a full measure of entertainment
from such stations as Daventry (8.8. C., Eng-
land), Berlin, Paris, etc., and amateurs all over
the world if you want them.
Would a Philips all-wave receiver, model 335,
12 to 2000 metres, which I am using in Perak,
F.M.S., be of use in Australia ? —378.
Eminently so. One of these receivers was
examined by the radio editor recently, and it
is considered to be one of the world’s out-
standing designs. Although the 2000-metre
range is not used in Australia, the receiver is
highly efficient over the short- and medium-
wave ranges, and the 2000-metre range may be
of use here some day.
* * * *
Is there any wireless telephone for about 50
miles’ distance that one could buy ? Price and
particulars welcome. —379.
No wireless transmitting apparatus of any
kind can be operated without a P.M.G. license.
Write to Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia),
Ltd., 47 York-street, Sydney, for particulars
and prices of apparatus.
* * * *
(1) My Kreisler five-valve battery set gives
fair daylight reception, but I would like to
improve it. Would improvement be effected
by fitting a Philips KK2 battery octode in
place of the 39 now used ? (2) Is the KK2
fitted with a five-pin base ?— 3BO.
(1) Yes, but this will involve redesign of the
frequency-changer coils and constants. The 39
was never intended to be used as a frequency-
changer in the first place. (2) No; the medium
seven-pin base.
* o *
(1) How can a two-valve battery Reinartz re-
ceiver be converted into a three-valve ? (2) Is
there any advantage in having a C battery in
preference to a resistor ? —377.
(1) By adding a stage of audio amplification,
using the conventional triode, transformer-
coupled. Alternatively, a stage of screen-grid
tuned R.F. can be added, using tuned-grid
coupling. (2) The advantage is that of not having
to worry about the condition of the C battery,
but resistors are not immune from trouble.
* o
What are the rates of pay in the signals
corps of the militia ? —376.
Based on a six-hour day, signalman 45.,
driver 55., corporal 95., sergeant 10s., o.r ser-
geant and s.q.m.s. 10s. 6d., s.s.m. 11s., r.s.m.
125., lieut. 15s.
* 4 4 *
Can you supply a circuit diagram and list
of parts for a one-valve battery-operated short-
wave receiver ? —373.
An article describing the construction of
such a receiver, using a Class-B valve as re-
generative detector and audio stage, is being
prepared. The instrument is named the Little
Twin, and is an excellent little receiver.
* * * *
(1) / intend building a five-valve battery re-
ceiver, and am situated 600 miles from Sydney
and 250 miles from Brisbane. Which do you
recommend, dual-wave superhet or converter
with broadcast receiver ? (2) What would be
the difference in battery drainage ? (3) Do
you recommend the purchase of a kit-set of
parts or parts separately ? (4) Name of firm
that could supply kit with necessary instruc-
tions ? (5) Approximate cost ? —374.
(1) Dual-wave superhet, except where
broadcast receiver is already available. The
converter is a useful adjunct to a satisfac-
tory broadcast receiver where it is desired to
keep the set in preference to a new purchase.
(2) Roughly about the same. (3) The kit-set
is the best idea, as the box contains every-
thing. (4) Try Price’s Radio Service, Angel-
place, Sydney. (5) Around £lO, not including
valves or batteries.
* *
Would a superhet converter be suitable for
use with my five-valve A.C. superhet for short-
wave reception ? —375.
Yes; the simplest form of converter is a
self-powered unit using an octode-frequency
changer. The Philips AK2 is recommended.
“J.L.C.” (Bundaberg) mentions for the benefit
of others that he is getting excellent results
from the Wide-World Two receiver from 240-
volt D.C. mains, using types 77 and 38 valves,
with a D.C. eliminator and a 75-watt lamp in
series with the heaters.


«SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE 0 MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLITfCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, ViCk
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WORN PLUCS
WAITE YOUR
MONEY
Replace them with
CHAMPIONS
■ham
PI ON
SSSffl! SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
The Steering Column.
CAUSES OF ERRATIC RUNNING.
FUEL LINE OR IGNITION SYSTEM USUALLY
RESPONSIBLE.
BY FRED BERRY.
A LTHOUGH engines fitted to modern “big cars” have such
** a reserve of power that even with one cylinder out of com-
mission a reasonable speed can be maintained, those who persist
in driving under such conditions pay dearly for their folly in
terms of increased fuel consumption and wear and tear of
reciprocating units. Every engine is susceptible to spasms of
erratic running, and every motorist of experience has at some
time observed a pronounced variation in power and perform-
ance, even though the engine is in apparently unaltered mech-
anical condition and though no important setting or adjustment
has been changed. The causes of such behavior are dealt
with in the following article.
Often the motorist is perplexed by the
erratic running of his car, and those
drivers who select some particular grade
on their daily route for purposes of test-
ing engine tune observe many lapses
which are difficult to account for. The
car will for long periods climb the test
hill in top gear and finish at 20 m.p.h.,
then without any apparent reason
fall away in power, necessitating the use
of a lower gear ; it subsequently returns
to normal performance in a similarly
mysterious fashion.
Provided sufficient skill and patience
is exercised, these performance variations
can be traced to their origin and cured.
It sometimes happens that a car used
regularly for city work and performing
in a satisfactory manner is taken on a
long country run, wher* high speeds can
be indulged in for considerable periods.
Hitherto the engine gave its full power
only on the few short bursts possible in
city driving, but under the new condi-
tions, while a high maximum can be
reached at any time, it cannot be main-
tained for more than a mile or two with-
out symptoms of distress appearing.
Puzzling Symptoms.
Lifting the bonnet and checking the
motor usually reveals nothing wrong, yet
on starting up again the same thing hap-
pens—the car can be driven at 40 con-
tinuously, but once a sustained full-
throttle burst is attempted the motor
rapidly falls away in power output.
Symptoms such as these clearly indi-
cate shortage of fuei, but it is usually a
difficult matter to trace the fault. Gen-
erally the trouble will be located either
in the mechanical fuel pump or in fuel
line and filters.
In making a preliminary check of the
pump mechanism it is advisable to first
remove and empty the glass bowl, clean
the gauze filter at the top, and, on replac-
ing, start the motor and note the rate
of feed. If the fuel takes an appreciable
time to fill the bowl, then either the
moving parts in the pump are worn or
there will be found a more or less seri-
ous obstruction in the fuel line between
tank and carburettor.
Mechanical fuel pumps seldom fail
completely, but the degree of wear of
moving parts varies within wide limits,
some pumps giving. trouble-free service
for years, whilst others cause worry at
an early period. Once wear has passed
a certain limit the thin metal diaphragm
will not be given sufficient movement to
feed the engine on full throttle, although
satisfactory at normal cruising speeds.
In cases where fuel pumps are elec-
trically operated, failure to feed on full
throttle is usually traceable to dirty con-
tact points, and a few minutes’ attention
with a suitable file will generally rectify
the disorder.
Obstructions in the fuel line will simi-
larly cause starvation of the carburettor
MOTORIMPRESSIONS—“PINCHED.”
at high speeds without worrying the
driver, so long as he is content to potter
on half throttle.
Dirty Filters.
Gauze filters, located in various posi-
tions along the fuel line and intake
assembly, slowjy collect any foreign
matter that may from time to time enter
the fuel tank and so restrict the free
flow of petrol to the pump. In such
cases once the offending filters are dis-
mantled a few moments’ work with a
stiff bristle brush and liberal washings in
petrol will rectify the trouble, but most
of the instances where erratic running is
observed are due to particles of rubber
or scale accumulating in the fuel tank
and being drawn into the delivery pipe,
temporarily restricting the flow to a
greater or lesser degree. Those obstruc-
tions drop out again when dislodged
mechanically, only to be drawn up on
some future occasion in a most irritating
and confusing fashion. When this
trouble is suspected, the drainplug should
be removed from the tank, and all fuel
removed and carefully filtered before re-
placing, but a measure of luck is neces-
sary to collect the offending particles, and
the surest remedy is to dismantle, open
up and thoroughly clean the tank before
restoring it to position.
Another cause of erratic running almost
identical in symptoms to cases already
described may be due to a vapor locjc
in the fuel line. So long as a car is
driven quietly and carefully, this elusive
trouble seldom intrudes, but once a long
burst of full throttle is attempted the
location of the fuel line and its proxim-
ity to hot spots on the engine or exhaust
manifold becomes vitally important.
Overheating.
In normal running the rush of cold air
drawn through the radiator by the fan
will serve to keep the exhaust system
reasonably cool, but once the throttle is
opened fully, either in climbing a long
hill or in making high speeds along
straight and level roads, the hot gases
ejected through the exhaust ports steadily
build up manifold temperature, until the
metal casing, particularly at the rear
end, becomes red hot. Consequently, if
the thin metal pipe fitted to convey fuel
from the rear tank to the carburettor
happens to lie close to the exhaust pipe
or manifold, excessive heat induced by
full-power operation will cause the liquid
to boil, form a gas seal in the line, and
prevent the pump drawing a sufficient
volume of petrol to supply the demands
of the motor. In such circumstances it
is advisable to inspect the fuel pipe care-
fully, and, where it is not possible to
give sufficient clearance to avoid hot spots
on the motor, one should insulate the
particular section by wrapping with
several layers of asbestos cord, finishing
off neatly with insulating tape.
In older types of engines erratic run-
ning frequently occurred by reason of
particles of foreign matter passing into
the float chamber of the carburettor and
thence into the jet assembly. Modern
filters are, however, so generous in
dimensions that this trouble is seldom
observed, but should the gauze become
fractured by some mischance the inter-
ruption of the jet flow can invariably be
cleared by the simple process of throw-
ing the gear level in neutral, partly
closing the choke and accelerating the
engine violently a few times.
Foreign matter in the fuel line does
not invariably cause bother at high speed,
for should a particle of grit pass the
filter and become lodged in the needle-
valve seating of the float chamber it will
cause flooding and prevent the engine
from idling well or pulling evenly at slow
speeds on top gear.
Rich Mixture.
Usually the obstruction is of a tem-
porary nature, the “flooding” action of
incoming petrol tending to wash the
offending particle of grit away ; but in
instances where a car has suddenly be-
come “cranky” in starting up, and in
which the motor fires unevenly at slow
revs, to the accompaniment of a smoky
exhaust, one may safely assume that the
float chamber of the carburettor is flood-
ing due to the needle valve being held
from its seating.
Electrical defects may also be respon-
sible for erratic running, but they gener-
ally cause misfiring rather than a steady
decline in power, and should be easily
identified, a common but outstanding
exception being due to motorists keeping
their spark plugs in commission for too
long a period. It is not generally under-
stood that while an engine may fire
evenly and regularly with original plugs
after 30,000 miles’ running, a new set
will usually give the motor a fresh lease
of life and certainly improve fuel con-
sumption and general performance.
Owner-drivers particularly fail to
observe this important fact, for the
reason that handling the car daily fall-
ing off in power is so gradual that, unless
performance tests have been made at
regular intervals, it is impossible to detect
loss in efficiency.
Experiments have conclusively proved
that after approximately . 15,000 miles'
running the value of the electric spark
at the plug point is impaired, mainly by
reason of carbon deposit and mechanical
destruction of the electrodes.
Waterproof Ignition.
Apart from the steady decline in power
caused by using plugs beyond their effec-
tive life, there are other defects in igni-
tion equipment that would be respon-
sible for erratic running, even though of
a temporary character. After heavy rain
or in consistently humid weather igni-
tion systems are prone to develop faults,
water being such an excellent conductor
of electricity that, obeying certain inflex-
ible laws, the current takes the shortest
path to earth and goes anywhere except
to plug points. Water dripping through
joins in the bonnet hinges above the
engine, or being drawn through the radia-
tor by fan suction, will, in certain cir-
cumstances, prevent the motor from
functioning. As moisture is deposited on
the outside of plugs, so the electrical cur-
rent, instead of arching between elec-
trodes within the combustion chamber,
leaks to earth via the cylinder block.
While trouble of this nature occurs fre-
quently, the remedy is simple and inex-
pensive. Moisture entering via the
bonnet hinge can be avoided by bending
a strip of tin or aluminium in the form
of a V, fixing it beneath the hinge and
directing the collected water away from
the plugs. Moisture drawn through the


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column,
è
•Ci.
“Makes
Finish
LAST LONGER
SOLD BY ATjLi GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
ff
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches , . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
■
1
wm
M
m
vr-SSS
>SS|S*S:;:::S;!S
i
★ For extra trouble-free miles
0 I7t
radiator by the fan during heavy rain
cannot be prevented from “shorting”
plugs or adversely affecting the ignition
system, unless each unit is rendered water-
proof by protecting with rubber or vul-
canite insulation.
Heavy rain or excessively humid con-
ditions may also result in erratic running
of the motor by reason of the fact that
condensed moisture in the distributor
head will cause sparks to jump promis-
cuously from one plug to another, instead
of following their proper sequences.
Further, as the rocker arm in the make-
and-break assembly is usually insulated
by a vulcanite “bush,” moist air may
cause swelling of the fibre, and so pre-
vent free movement. In both these in-
stances engines will be difficult to start,
and spark timing will be hopelessly
astray, producing irregular firing and
considerable loss of power. Disorders
of this nature can be avoided by drilling
four |in. holes spaced equally round the
periphery of the distributor head, to pro-
mote a current of air and prevent con-
densation ; whilst a rubber sheath wholly
covering head, plug and high-tension
wires will prevent entry of rain and its
consequent mischief.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
S.O’B. (Tully, Q.). —1 have been informed
that graphite in both petrol and oil will improve
the performance of my ’34 car. I have a
pound tin of flake graphite. How much should
I use for best effect ?
In no circumstances use flake graphite in
either lubricating oil or petrol, as it will choke
up oilways and filters. Only sort suitable is
colloidal graphite. Instructions as to quantities
will be found on each tin.
A.L. (Mackay, Q .).—The oil pressure in my
’33 model four-cylinder car has caused me
some concern lately, as, although on starting
off from cold the gauge still shows 60 lb. pres-
sure, after running half an hour it has gradu-
ally indicated a lower reading, until now the
needle barely moves. After coasting down a
long hill in gear and opening throttle smoke
still shows plainly from exhaust, so oil must
be getting into engine. Cause and cure ?
Low oil pressure when the motor is hot is
probably due to worn crankshaft bearings or
worn pump assembly, or to both. If main-
or con.-road bearings are a loose fit the hot
oil escapes before pressure can be built up in
the gauge. If gears and casing of pump are
not a good fit pressure will drop quickly when
oil becomes hot. Obvious remedy would be
an inspection and overhaul of these details.
* * * *
W.H. (Kurrajong, N.S.W.). —(1) My four-
cylinder ’2B model car has now done 39,000
miles. Noticing play in the diff. assembly, I
found, on removing the inspection cover, that
the rivets holding the ring gear in position are
loose, allowing the spiral-bevel gear to move
back and forth more than jin. Is this right ?
(2) There is a distinct tap in the engine, most
noticeable when idling, but disappearing as
speed increases. Bearings are in good condi-
tion, valves adjusted, new rings and gudgeons
fitted, oil consumption good, and no smoke at
exhaust. Is this piston-slap, and is it doing
any harm ?
(1) You are running a serious risk of wreck-
ing the rear axle assembly by driving the car
in this condition. Remove diff. gear and have
new rivets fitted. (2) Check play in timing
gear.
* * # *
A.E.T, (Yenda, N.S.W.).; —(1) In driving on
a cambered earth road, greasy after rain, what
is the best speed to adopt to avoid skids ? (2)
Is skidding less likely to occur at 25 m.p.h.
than at 15, and at which speed would the
greatest danger exist ? (3) What are the general
precautions to adopt in driving under these
conditions ?
There is no safe speed at which one may
drive over a greasy cambered road. Such fac-
tors as distribution of load, section of tyre,
correct alignment of wheels and centre of
gravity all have a bearing upon results, apart
altogether from the confidence and skill of the
driver. Skids at high speeds are more
dangerous than those at lower rates.
Hi v * *
E.K.L. (St. Leonards, N.S.W.).—(I) Did the
1934 Dodge have knee action ? (2) Relative
merits of cast-iron and aluminium pistons ?
(1) ’34 Dodge DR had knee action ; KCD
model did not. (2) Matter of opinion. Most
cars use aluminium pistons, but several-success-
ful types still retain cast-iron.
* * * *
Gawler (Adelaide). —What petrol and oil
consumption should I expect from my 1935
Ford KB, driven carefully on good roads, dur-
ing the first 15,000 miles ?
Consumption in both instances will depend
on speed. Modest averages around 30 m.p.h.
should with ordinary care show 20-25 m.p.g.,
but sustained high speeds would bring the figure
to 15, or even lower. Average oil consumption
depends upon how frequently sump oil is
cnanged. With this done every 1000 miles, a
quart should suffice for topping-up in the
interim.
* * * *
J.G.O. (Umbiram, Q.). —(1) Have cylinder
bores ever been electroplated ? If so, with what
metals or alloys ? (2) When the cylinder of an
air-cooled motor-cycle becomes worn, could it
be plated and honed with success ?
(1) No. Pistons have been tin-coated by a
special process. (2) No. There are difficulties
in securing an intimate contact between the
two metals, owing to their different rates of
expansion.
* * * *
S.O’D. (Mount Gambier, S.A.). —Why do
the headlights of my car flare up brilliantly
when I drive fast in top gear or climb a hill
in bottom, yet, with the motor switched off,
the light is quite yellow ? I have blown my
headlight bulbs three times in the last five
weeks.
Symptoms clearly point to a loose electrical
connection between generator and battery.
Make a careful inspection of battery connec-
tions, earth return and all contacts behind the
dashboard.
S.R. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). —During the last
six months the oiling system in my 10 -h.p. car
has been causing me some worry. Mileage is
26,000, and up till the 20,000 mark the oil
gauge would show 60 lb. pressure with any
good brand of oil in the sump, and keep at
45/6. on a long run. Now, even with heaviest
grades of oil, cold pressure is still 60 1 b., but
after ten minutes’ running gauge drops to
10/6., and sometimes lower. What should I do ?
First see that filters are clean and allow oil
to circulate freely through the system. Examine
gear pump in crankcase, and note whether
there is excessive play in spindle bearings or
too great a clearance between pinion wheels
and pump casing. In either case, the requisite
pressure cannot be maintained when oil is hot.
Should the pump be in good condition, the only
other source of trouble will be due to slack
and worn main or connecting-rod bearings
allowing hot oil to pass freely without building
up the usual pressure in the gauge.
ip * * *
D.F.L. (Gunnedah, N.S.W.). —Are broken
connecting rods a common occurrence in car
named ?
No.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and-by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Cbe mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar' House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
. F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“The News”
It wont tell the
whole world . . No!
BUT ......
If you've a sales story
you want to get about
It will
certainly tell
South Australia
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
liET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, jLtd., Adelaide.
w
e
Women’s
Supplement
‘The Examiner" publishes every Wednesday a Sup-
plement for Women containing all the social news
and specialised features concerning the woman and
the home. It is the woman’s own newspaper, and
rivals Australia’s best. It not only reaches the home, but
stays there. You can reach the women of Northern Tas-
mania only by advertising in “The Examiner’s” Women’s
Supplement.
w
Full Information, Copies, Advertising- Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
YOUR MONEY
That’s why GAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia-
“I reckon you’ve been thinking it over, son,” his
father said. “Are you ready to come in with me? I
built this place for my son and yours, when you
have one, to follow.”
Rod stirred, moved at the earnestness of his tone.
His father’s mood seemed softened to-night.
“Can’t you see Ruvia’s a big thing in its way,
Rod? I’ve made it what it is ; but it wants carrying
on. I want to see you take your rightful place here—
and your son to follow you.”
Rod was silent.
“What about that girl yonder?” said his father,
jerking a big thumb over to shadowy Namaya.
“She’ll look higher than a dark woman’s son,”
said Rod bitterly.
“Bloody rot!” said his father in anger. “You’re
my son, and the white blood is stronger in you than
the dark. Your mother was only a half-caste, after
all. Make love to her, Rod. Take no denial—it’s the
way with every woman. They love you when you
master them. Every woman’s the same at heart—
dark or white. Make love to her, marry her, and
bring her home to Ruvia.”
“If she’ll have me,” said Rod grimly ; but his
father’s robust convictions heartened him.
“If she’ll have you, lad? She’ll have you right
enough. My son to own Ruvia after me is worth
any woman’s having. But, if she won’t, let her go.
The world’s full of women. You’ll find many a pretty
girl eager enough to marry you, my lad. But what’s
your decision, lad? Dick’s leaving me soon. There’s
plenty of work for you here. Will you come in with
me? You’ve had long enough to decide. What’s it to
be, lad?”
Rod’s smile heartened him.
“I’m your man, dad,” he said. “I’ll take your
offer. I can at least give it a trial.”
“You’ve made a good choice, Rod,” the old man
said. “You’ve made me a happy man to-night. Let’s
get back to the house —it’s getting late.”
But Roddy, too stirred to sleep, walked long that
night in the moonlight.
Exultation descended on him: such love as
his must win Daphne ; he would marry her and carry
on magnificently his father’s work. He forgot he
hadn’t that way of handling men that came naturally
to his father and Dick. His dream soared. He would
put Fiji into literature as no man had yet done. Suva,
the little spreading city, with its intriguing, fascinating,
sordid underworld of many races; Levuka, clustering
beneath its fantastic peaks—he had them in the hollow
of his hand. And beyond them the scattered islands,
beautiful, lonely, girdled with guarding reefs. No man
was perhaps so fitted as he to interpret them, since
part of the roots of his being went back into their
dim, forgotten antiquity.
He walked long in the silent night.
Chapter XI.
A MONTH had passed since Rod and his father
had made their bargain ; and the young man
had thrown himself wholeheartedly into his share
of it. Dick was soon to leave. He had sunk his
unexpectedly acquired capital into the land at Valoa
that Laurence, that shrewd judge, had pronounced so
promising a proposition. To Rod, looking back on
it all in later days, it seemed that in this ardent, hope-
filled time he approached nearer to happiness than
he was ever to again. He worked hard ; he took to
studying with a thoroughgoing application rare in
him the thousand and one details that had to be
attended to in the keeping of Ruvia the commercial
success it was. He and his father were in complete
accord; the old man, indeed, delighted in letting Rod
put into practice theories that, had any other advanced
them, he would unhesitatingly have ridiculed.
Once only since the wedding at Valoa had Rod
and Daphne met—this time at Namaya, the home of
the Eliots. That had been purely a formal visit on
business of his father’s, but they had made him very
welcome. His hand held Daphne’s lingeringly at part-
ing ; the exquisite girl looked at him with a faint
wonder, but he thought there was the dawn of some
new emotion in her lovely eyes. He went back elated,
He would win her, make her love him ; beat down the
opposition of her parents that he knew instinctively
would be arrayed against him when they knew he
loved theif only cherished daughter.
A fortnight after his call at Namaya, Roddy
, Daphne again in Va , oa . The Eliots often
• fho,, n , un aH „ cm on orppn.
-p- _ * _ . vnlnn wnc washed
f ‘n-motb
U^s
-<• wt£ £d% S
* at the hour was at hand H d 1
no H ° , led down the moon iit road to the Eliots’
Ihe verend?h
rpwnrdpd him
“why, Roddy!” she said, pleased surprise in her
t1 __ t + ’ ct ; r him sn “How
, , , T • • t f i i t‘ an d to
• h VhaH mnp with rhd and mother Thev’ve cone
lone—excent for Salote ”
Th d of the tall vigilant old woman
L,!?r room Roddv fancied that
. i -i. d f with malevolent eveJ She moved
•, f i-v t d ‘ „ one '
S .tl “On a uSISe this'
T , h ‘ did n i? p „i T wanted to walk in the
Jd VJ
Rdl Dam? SaL Mem’ T wonder if the 5 moon
walked In was as wonderful as this?”
B c . „„ mr ,trpd • the moon-
flowed down her white thin silks and quivered
thi-nnt
“Walk a little way with me,” Rod begged. “Out
. naohne Danhnei”
Fxnltation wis in voice and the fair girl
~ J , • wnndpr ’
„ p m so chanced to-night Roddv. Yes
T ,., t>„ f wa u T’lftell Salote I’m going out’’
111 heard
h disapproving voice of the old woman raised in
expostulation. Daphne laughed lightly, and came out
again almost at once. He saw Salote hovei, disturbed,
m 1 o ne would 'judge, by Salote,” said Daphne,
faintly annoyed, “that I was a child. Really, she’s
becoming intolerable. I’m afraid she doesn’t altogether
like you, Roddy.” . , „ , , ,
Outside in the lovely night they walked slowly
side by. side. Over the quiet road the high trees shed
fantastic shadows, interweaving intricately with a
myriad rills of light that everywhere flowed and
became one with silver lakes. The high moon rode,
queening it over Valoa, in a sky burning with stars
intensely bright. It seemed to the man and the girl
that they walked in enchanted country.
The road, skirting the shore, swept at last into a
lawny space, sloping down to the blanched beach.
They could see the lights of Valoa settlement glowing
among the trees; a schooner lying at anchor m the
stream showed, at that distance, like a ship of dream.
The night was very still. Daphne sank down on the
grey trunk of a fallen tree ; her white frock glimmered
in the moonlight; her little, fair head was limned in
light. Roddy threw himself on the thick grass at
her feet. .
For a little space they were both silent, the girl’s
soft gaze on the marvel of moonlit sea. But Rod’s
eyes, on her, were the eyes of a lover. Stronger than
ever, the tide of exultation was rising in him; he felt
in himself a surging power, felt that for this honey-
and-silver slip of girlhood he could conquer the world.
“Daphne!” he said at last, and she looked down
at him with cool, sweet eyes.
“Daphne, dear,” he said, “I love you so.”
She was troubled then.
“Dear Roddy,” she said, “I was afraid you were
going to say something like that.”
His hand covered hers, quickly, impulsively.
“Why not? I think I must have loved you all
my life.” .
“But you’ve known me such a little time. How
could you, you foolish Roddy?”
“I loved you from that first afternoon we met,”
went on the boy’s impassioned voice. “I never forgot
you. And then when we met again you had grown
into everything desirable- —everything that you must
have been. Daphne! Daphne! ”
“I remembered, too,” she said faintly, swayed by
his ardor. . „
“Will you marry me, Daphne?” he pleaded. She
shrank back a little. “If you could only love me, I
might do great things. We could make life together
a perfect thing, you and I.”
She was very still. His ardent voice went on:
“You were a lovely memory always to me,
Daphne, and when I saw you again I worshipped you.
You who were everything that all beautiful, women
were, and more, because you were yourself.”
“Foolish, foolish. Roddy.” She let her free hand
touch his thick hair. Her voice was very tender;
there was an odd ache in her heart. She didn’t know
whether she loved Roddy; but certainly no man had
ever stirred her as he did. She felt new emotions stir-
ring in a heart that had always been coolly virginal.
But there was one barrier she could never, would
never, cross. She became afraid of her awakening
heart. But it could never be. Poor Roddy! It was
kinder to be swift.
She trembled a little, because she hated so to
hurt him ; she had always been pitiful in little things.
She could have been so fond of him, too. Poor,
idealistic, handicapped Roddy!
“I’ll always be fond of you, Roddy,” she said
at last. “But I can never marry you.”
“Why not? Why not? If you could love me-
Daphne —dearest”
She had risen ; they were standing face to face in
the soft and clear moonlight.
“It can never be, Roddy,” she said. “Perhaps I
wish it could.”
“Why not? Why not?”
She looked long and eloquently at him in the
clear light.
He understood.
“Is that the reason?” he said, bitterness and hurt
in his voice.
“Yes,” she said, very low.
There was nothing more to be said.
(To be continued next week .)


Lilli
& *)
Ctulum.
*IT
Luff
—I,
0
mm§
3
i
Wtmam
m
W&fmi
S
m
■
mm
■:P,
WA.
Wwn/s/7/'
wmm
mm
mm
wmm.
in
nxzm
mm.
mk
w.
wmm,
r
Hi
t
I
rm
m
Wfmr&fiFn
m
m
wmm. i
. m
mmm,
W°.i
w- m
X
CO c Gxllixm , s
Scots (ilhisky
■
■>/>f
'
*
Jif.MKUU.
Wwmmmm^m,
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McGALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
o*V ve
<&
&
<3#
*V &sfs< ...-••• ...-•• ....
i
t *2?' ~••'■ .-••■ .••'■>
el
~V S * .*** .**'*. <$ *<&*&?
#*’ .•***


CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
as well as City Interests,
I nvestments carry greatest possible security.
The Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel*
Yearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
M utual —owned and controlled by the Policy-holders,
u ndoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office,
The Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses,
u nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
Australia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% 1934.
I nvestment yield the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strongest Reserves of any Society in the Empire.
Only one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Oarefu 1 selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
Efficient and Economical Management
T he Millionaire Society that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Y oung Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
ms.
m
< '
■
11
: '
-
i I
m
im
i
II
m
m
a
m.
ill
E
w
a
!
f
:
'V
%ih ylitituranee the Balance Wheel of Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next
birthday, effected a Policy on his life for
£3OOO, and paid a quarter’s premium of
£l5/15/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934
was £B6/5/-!
Full particulars will be forwarded on
application.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR
BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE
ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. Wm. BENNETT, Managing Director
