

Ea ; VWw' "jji
»/
*
a
A
U.
\\
fe*
<mi
\
mi
t
//&
<*2J
Tm
L4t
ru
i
o
/
V *
CWB
\\
■
*
«**>*?>
yy~A
OfMt
•/X
%
Kites
m
m
‘SstS^i
yijmw.
m
A
area«
/">
LEAD •
TDDHEYS
CLUB tS? 1
TOOHEYS LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
The Bulletin
Propaganda for War
Vol. 57.—N0. 2918.
Wednesday, January 15, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
[Sory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE. COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work wili be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
S. R PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
* _____
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
CRITICS
JOB
In A Year That
the Locust
(Nicholson and
Watson; 10s. 6d.
net) A. S. M.
Hutchinson sug-
gests a plan for book-reviewing whereby
the only books reviewed would be books
that could be eulogised. “As to attack on
a book rendered at useful length what
purpose is served by such and to
whom?” he asks. “When a novel is as
bad as a reviewer frequently will state
one to be the less that is said about it
the better for public taste and the worse
for the author. So why say anything?”
Also Mr. Hutchinson would like to see
“a weekly journal called, flatly, ‘Good
Books’ and containing nothing whatso-
ever but full-length recommendations of
books that, at full length and with no
vital objection, can be recommended as
good.” He doubts whether such a jour-
nal would pay, but, “issued under editor-
ship above suspicion, it would pay pub-
lishers to combine to subsidise it.”
Further: “Reviewers, similarly, might
combine to subsidise a companion organ
entitled ‘Bad Books.’ Here at full length
they could damn and blast, pulverise,
hang, draw and quarter, all unworthy
books... .Authors would buy it, I am
sure, though I doubt the general public
would —which latter consideration is, I
think, my point in a nutshell.”
Now, all that seems to my possibly
warped intelligence a mess of fallacy
and crooked thinking. Its main fallacy
is Mr. Hutchinson’s conception of the
critic s job as that of a library assistant
employed by a newspaper. Another—
by implication—is that literary criticism
is an exact science, working in the light
of which the contributors to “Good
Books” would inevitably eulogise the good
books. This seems to me an utterly
ridiculous notion. For example, further
on in his book Mr. Hutchinson proves
by his remarks on Magnus Merriman
that if he were one of the reviewers for
“Good Books” and Linklater’s novel
came to him he could not “at full length
and with no vital objection recommend
it as good.” He admits that had he read
Magnus before he came to the same
author’s Ripeness Is All, instead of vice
versa, he would “not have been further
attracted.” And there is my point against
“Good Books” in a nutshell. For I
could write enthusiastically at full length
in recommendation of Magnus for the
gusto of life that is in it —for a quality,
in fact, that Mr. Hutchinson might pos-
sibly regard as no quality at all.
I don’t suggest that my choice would
be the better. It might or it might not.
The point is that it would be a different
choice: that I would write at full leflgth
in recommendation of a book that Mr.
Hutchinson could not by nature praise
except in the heavily-qualified way that
he praises Magnus Merriman. Thus, by
the chance of Linklater’s novel going to
Mr. Hutchinson there would be no notice
of it in “Good Books,” and that, I sug-
gest, would be a calamitous omission as
far as my subscription to “Good Books”
was concerned. There would have also
to be other serious omissions. I person-
ally could not write in recommendation
of Mr. Hutchinson’s own book without
considerable qualification. This book is
to me a diary concoction made up of
half small beer and half good spirit.
To many it will be enough recommenda-
tion to say that it has the rare ring of
a genuine diary: its daily jottings seem
complete, true and honest expressions of
Mr. Hutchinson’s daily thoughts. It
gives a very clear impression of the kind
of man Mr. Hutchinson is and the sort
of mind he has. He can be seen very
clearly in his home life, his thoughts
focusing upon all sorts of matters and
people that interest Mr. Hutchinson. On
broad literary grounds it must unques-
tionably be called a good book of the
diary kind. At the same time, it does
little more than any diary honestly kept
must do: that is, it gives its keeper into
the reader’s hands.. A typist’s diary
would do as much, and might possibly be
more interesting: it would depend on
the typist. There is no literary quality in
Mr. Hutchinson’s diary such as would
make his words worth reading for their
own sake. But, though there is no prose
style, there certainly is Mr. Hutchinson’s
manner; and in regard to this I suggest
it is wholly a matter of personal opinion,
and not at all literary discernment, which
must decide whether one likes it or not.
To me his manner is perky and
querulous: to thousands it may be
highly delightful.
In such a matter as this it seems to
me that I as a reviewer might well pause
and consider those thousands and at the
same time question the likelihood of my
being infallibly right. Should I with-
hold my praise of Mr. Hutchinson’s book
in part because as a whole I could not
possibly recommend it without this heavy
qualification? There is in Mr. Hutchin-
son’s character as revealed by his diary
a great deal that does not attract me at
all: what right have I to drop Mr.
Hutchinson’s book into the wastepaper
basket on that account? Thousands will
find quite endearing the very things which
I dislike: I suggest that it is part of a
reviewer’s business to have regard for
all such others, and on their account to
give as faithful a picture of the book
as he can consistent also with expressing
his own honest feelings about it. I have
stated what Mr. Hutchinson’s book is,
and the reader can expect to find revealed
in it the character, habits and daily
thoughts of the author of If Winter
Comes. Those thoughts I find extremely
interesting, but not in the same sense that
many others might find them so. To my
way of thinking many of them are, like
those I have considered here, full of
fallacy. But even these I find provo-
cative, and therefore, to me, interesting.
I find it also interesting that one whose
books sell by the scores of thousands can
find pleasure in recording such piffling
things as Mr. Hutchinson so largely
records in this book; pleasure, too, in
writing “letters to editors,” or to the
head of the 8.8. C., pointing out that
there is no such place as Britain, and that
it should be Great Britain; pleasure,
again, in the punctilious conduct of a
heavy correspondence with, apparently,
anybody who cares to write to him.
These seem to me matters of consider-
able psychological interest, and I feel
sure that many will find them interesting
on that account. Of very different in-
terest I find his recollections of journal-
istic life and the revealing personalia of
many interesting people—as he presents
them, interesting though I had never
heard of them before.
It occurs to me that books are like
the earth: in some—here I include all
the t'osh writings, piffling romances and
crude thrillers—you dig and find only
dirt; in some a little gold ; and in others
much gold. And I disagree with Mr.
Hutchinson’s idea that criticism has no
call to consider any but the last of these.
The vision of critics thus banded to-
gether into a union of loud applause
seems utterly nightmarish. The critic’s
job seems to me as importantly con-
cerned acting as a blast and corrective
against false art as in praise of the true.
More so —because while true art would
survive without critics, so also would the
false: and it is the critic’s thankless but
creditable job to destroy the false to the
extent of his opportunity and ability.
One other thought upon Mr. Hutchin-
son s small nest of fallacies concerning
book reviewing. He believes that his
ideal journal “Good Books” would be
read by book readers, and “Bad Books”
by authors. If anything, I should say
the opposite would happen, it being
notoriously true that authors are passion-
ately fond of applause and also that writ-
ing of the kind in which men honestly
damn and blast” invariably makes scan-
dalously good reading. I think, how-
ever, that both journals would flop, for
the reason that that balance of elements
approval and disapproval—which
keeps men and things sane would be
missing; and the package of applause
and the package of blast would soon be-
come equally tiresome.
C. M.
Philology's
Frozen
Assets
Broad caster
Clewlow has been
chiding Austra-
lians in Mel-
bourne for their
small vocabulary :
there are diction-
aries full of good English words, and it
seems that we fail to take advantage of
them. They are like the gold reserves
which lie in the vaults of the United
States.
Mr. Clewlow may be right, but is Aus-
tralia any more indifferent to the value
of words it leaves in cold storage than
other countries? A few years back I
was in London waiting for a chance to
spend some weeks in Paris, and I decided
to “brush up” the French I had learned
at school. I did not find it so difficult,
and I set out to read everything French
I could lay my hands on. It was then
that I discovered that every nation has
three distinct languages—the literary, the
journalistic and the spoken.
I started on Maupassant’s Bel Ami
and found that there were, on the aver-
age, three words on every page the mean-
ing of which I found only by consulting
a dictionary. Then I turned to a news-
paper, “Le Matin,” and, to my delight, I
discovered that my knowledge enabled
me to mastei all but an average of two
words to the column. Later I picked up
a book of French plays, and was aston-
ished to find that I could read through
from start to finish without a fault. The
dialogue was written, not in the language
of literature or the language of jour-
nalism, but in the language of the people,
and the French people had discarded or
disregarded many words which authors
and newspapermen used habitually.
Maupassant was anything but a high-
brow: “Le Matin” is certainly not a
pedantic publication. The words used
by both were words which any French-
man could understand. The surprising
thing was that, apparently, the French-
man never used them himself.
I decided to test the theory in Eng-
lish. I read a leading article from the
“Times,” and found in it four words
which I had heard spoken only a few
times, and one which I had never, in
my whole lifetime, heard spoken, though
it was a word the meaning of which
would puzzle nobody who understood the
English language. I ran over a file of
Australian newspapers which was beside
me, and I found the same thing was cur-
rent in my own country. Who, in any
English-speaking country, for example,
has ever heard anybody use that foul
word “vouchsafe” except a parson in a
pulpit?
M. GROVER.
The Struggles
of Delius
A compara-
tively brief mono-
graph by Philip
Heseltine, pub-
lished a dozen
years ago, and
some letters quoted in Cecil Gray’s bio-
graphy of Heseltine have until recently
constituted the sum of what the world
has known of Frederick Delius. Now
comes a very much more intimate
glimpse at the composer’s life, penned
by his sister Clare: Frederick Delius,
Memories of My Brother (Ivor Nichol-
son and Watson; 155.).
Unfortunately for the world of music,
which would be interested to learn some-
thing of the manner in which Delius’s
peculiar genius budded and came to
flower, neither of his biographers can
throw much light on the subject. As
part of his boyhood education the com-
poser-to-be became a very capable
violinist (at the age of 12 he won praise
from Joachim),, and he taught himself
to play the pianoforte by ear. Very
early he discovered a gift of improvisa-
tion at the keyboard, and he became a
Chopin-idolator at the age of 10. That
led him to the necessity for score-read-
ing. He could, at 16, his sister says,
“read perfectly at sight,” and thence-
forth absolutely refused to be bothered
with scales and exercises. That’s all
about, his musical training until he was
about 24, when he officially went to
Leipzig to study pianoforte and com-
position, but actually spent most of the
period in Norway, where he became the
friend of Grieg and Sinding,
But before he was allowed to go to
Leipzig he had a long tussle with his
father, a Bradford woollen magnate, very
rich, very much the heavy father, and to
the end of a long life firmly of opinion
that music is no career for a gentleman.
After it had been demonstrated that
“Fritz” had no call to the tops and noils
papa allowed him to go to Florida to
grow oranges. His dutiful son devoted
all his time, not to the citrus industry,
but to musical study, and, finally, leav-
ing the plantation to its fate, went to
Danville, Fla., and finally to New York,
following the avocations of music-teacher
and church organist, and sedulously
neglecting to write home. His dad capi-
tulated, had the prodigal searched for
and brought back to Bradford, and
grudgingly consented to the Leipzig
sojourn—limited to two years. After
that two years back Frederick would
have gone to the warehouse (“Nothing
whatever to show for it,” said stern
parent) but for the intervention of Grieg,
then in the heyday of his fame. The
great little .Norwegian invited papa
Delius to dinner and talked him into giv-
ing Frederick an allowance.
Grieg believed that the young com-
poser had genius. So did Thomas
Beecham, who heard a performance of
the symphonic poem “Appalachia” in
1907, and thereafter never conducted a
concert at which a Delius work did not
figure on the programme. Granville
Bantock, Balfour Gardiner and Sir
Henry Wood were other conductors who
arrived much later at the conclusion that
Delius had attained a permanent niche
in the hall of British musical fame. After
the composer’s death Elgar, Landoti
Ronald, Erchkleiber and Damrosch paid
his work high tributes.
Any friend of Grieg’s was bound to
become acquainted with Percy Grainger,
and Delius and the Australian-American
became intimate friends. It was Grainger
who took down from the lips of a Lin-
colnshire singer the folk-song that forms
the theme of Delius’s “Brigg Fair.”
As he grew older Delius grew more
and more captious and contradictory.
His sister records that when Grainger
was coming to stay with him at his home
(Continued on page 4.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
©
“The Sale of the Sale Season”
Real Scotch Grain
GOLF SHOES
m 22s
Smart Brogues
Rubber or Leather
Spiked Soles
Foot comfort plays a big part
towards the success of your game.
Select a pair of “Hordura” Golf
shoes, and you will know what real
comfort is, for they are specially
designed in full-fitting shapely styles
in full and half sizes. High-grade
plain or grain leathers. Price,
pair 27/6
Sale Price, pair 22/6
/
H7li
I4 7 n
224
‘Tree Brand” Super
Shoes. Our famous shoes,
* made from genuine
imported zug and zebu leathers.
Smart brogue and: whole golosh
models are available in Black or
Tari, and full and half sizes.
Price, pair 42/—. Anthony
Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 36/-
“Hordura” Ezy-Arch.
A smart shoe for comfort and
hard service. “Hordura” Ezy-
Arch shoes, fitted with leather
arch supports, and steel brace.
Black or Tan Oalf, in full and
half sizes. Price, pair 19/11.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
pair 17/11
“Tree Brand” Officers’
Boots. ' Durability and comfort
are combined in these
officers’ boots. Made from high-
grade Tan or Black Calf, also
Black Wallaby. Pull and half
sizes. Price, pair 16/11. Anthony
Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 14/11
“Tree Brand” Super
Sll-i Made of stout
0110 dependable wear-
ing leathers in Tan, Black
and Havana Brown, in well-
fitting Brogue and bespoke
styles. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair 27/6. Anthony
Horderns’’ Sale Price, pair 22/6
% Men’s Faotwear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports
Commonwealth.
For Tradesman
and Handyman
BARBED WIRE
Patent Scrutch Barbed Wire, 12£ gauge. Length
per coil, 610 yards. Price, coil 26/6. Anthony
Horderns’ Sale Price, coil 24/6
Also 14 gauge in coils of 810 yards. Price, coil
28/- Sale Price, coil 26/-
FENCING WIRE
“No Sag” galvanised high-strain Steel Fencing-wire,
12£ gauge. Price, coil 24/- Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, coil 23/6
RISISTOID ROOFING
“Risistoid” Roofing in rolls 72ft. long x 3ft'. wide,
complete with cement and clout nails.
Rolls I-ply 2-ply 3-ply
Price, roll 31/- 38/- 45/3
Sale Price, roll 28/- 34/- 40/-
HANGERS
Lane’s Barn Door Hangers. Price, per pair, 12/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 10/9
TRACKS forHANGERS
Strong, reliable Tracks for door hangers.
length 6ft. 8 ft.
Prices, each 6/- 8/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each . . 5/- 6/6
HANGERS for HEAVY DOORS
“Monarch A” Door Hangers for heavy doors.
Price, pair 26/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 23/-
WIRE STRAINERS
“Walker” Wire Strainers, reliable for long service.
Price, per doz 4/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 4/-
BUTT HINGES
Stanley’s Antique Coppered Ball Pin Steel Butt
Hinges
Sizes 241D2 x 3in. 241D2 x 3^in.
Prices, pair .... 1/9 1/10
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices 1/6 1/7
CAST-IRON BUTT HINGES
Kenrick’s Cast-iron Butt Hinges. No screws, size
Price 16/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, dozen pairs . . 9/6
• Builders’ Hardware —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
ECONOMISE ON THESE PAINTS AND VARNISHES
SOLPAH
RED
PAVING PAINT
“AB” HIGH-GRADE
MIXED
PAINT
1 Gallon.
Price 21/- 11/-
SALE
PRICE 19/6 10/3
Quarts. Pints.
Price 6/- 3/2
SALE
PRICE 5/9 3/-
i-Pints.
Price 1/9
SALE
PRICE 1/8.
HARD - DRYING
OAK
VARNISH
# Paints —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
“REVELITE”
QUICK - DRYING
CAR ENAMEL
Pints. i-Pints.
Price 4/9 2/6
SALE
PRICE 4/6
2/4
Rid Your House of
ANTS with
“ANT-RID”
2oz. bottles.
Price 1/6
SALE PRICE . . 1/4
“Palace” Brand VARNISH
BRUSHES—Pure Black bristli
lin. Uin. 2in.
Price 10d. 1/5 2/2
SALE PRICE . . 9d. 1/3 1/11
and PAINT
; set in rubber.
3in.
2/10 3/8 4/10
2/7 3/4 4/4
ANTHONY
PITT, GOULBURN AND
HORDERNS’
GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
Postal Address;
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


About Your Indigestion.
t
*
9-
m
*
G
INTESTINES
A
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE Painful distension of the
■ stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
' The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE Duodenal ulcers. Excess
————— outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
in France Delius wrote to him begging
him to bring all his Bach with him:
“There is no other composer’s works that
I love so dearly.” When Percy arrived,
cum a hundredweight of Bach, and pro-
posed to play through it, Delius ex-
claimed, “Bach! Oh, don’t play that!
You know I don’t like him at all.”
It was not till his last days, when he
was paralysed and blind, that Delius had
honors thrust upon him. He received
the Order of Companion of Honor (the
Order of Merit, which is limited to 24,
having no vacancy) and Bradford, at long
last proud of a famous son, conferred
upon him the Freedom of the City. But
papa Delius, who lived to over 80, and
mamma Delius, who passed the ninetieth
milestone, resolutely ignored their son’s
profession to the very end. In his will
the elder Delius apportioned his estate
between his wife and 12 children in such
a way that all sums he had spent upon
their respective upbringing were offset
against their portions. His accounts,
kept with meticulous German accuracy,
showed that he had spent £37,000 on his
family’s education. Though he died very
wealthy Frederick’s share under the will
was a shade over £5OO.
Hamilton Harty gave Delius’s work its
most impressive introduction to Aus-
tralia, Percy Grainger included Delius
excerpts in many of his broadcast reci-
tals here, and Dr. Bainton, Sydney Con.’s
new director, has helped to stir interest
in compositions whose idiom is so new
and strange to ears attuned to the for-
mulae of the German classicists that
genuine appreciation comes slowly. But
the new and strange of one generation
sometimes becomes the familiar idol of
the next. Perhaps that will happen to
Delius, as it happened before him to
Wagner, to Richard Strauss and to
Debussy.
A. MAJOR.
Task for
Historians
For the greater
part historical
writing in Aus-
tralia is of the
rawest imagin-
able. It is enough
for most writers in this field to
make a selection of ore from the
rich deposits in the Mitchell Library
and, with no attempt at refinement,
lump the stuff together and issue it
forth. The result is a fair lot of source
material got up conveniently into books.
This should be a great boon to future
writers with the historical sense, but it is
the wildest exaggeration to say that it
itself is historical writing.
The writers of books of this kind give
no evidence of any attempt or ability
to digest the material available, refine it,
and in this process re-present the past
period with which they deal. There is
a capital lesson for them in the lecture
on “The Causal and the Casual in His-
tory” with which John Buchan prefaces
Men and Deeds (recommended in
Satchel, 1/1 / ’36). Buchan, who power-
fully supports his theory throughout the
rest of the book, makes the simple, but
vitally important, point that “the past,
if it is to satisfy intelligent minds, must
be presented as a sequence of effects and
causes.” It is because this simple essen-
tial of the art is not grasped that we have
here so many lumpy books of good
source material masquerading as histori-
cal writing. Our Australian dabblers in the
art seem to think highly of transcribing
virtually unaltered documents into their
books, though, as Buchan wisely argues,
“History is not content with an accumu-
lation of facts ; it seeks to establish rela-
tions between facts.” That might serve
as a standing criticism of our lump mer-
chants, with, as the conclusion of the
whole matter, Buchan’s further sensible
contention that, even from the point of
view of art, history must have its own
inevitableness. “History must be more
than a chronicle; it must be synoptic
and interpretative.”
Apply that test to our historians, and
many of them come out badly.
SIZZLE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
A Year That the Locust .. A. S. M. Hutchinson.
Women Called Wild Rosita Forbes.
Gaudy Night Dorothy L. Sayers.
THE fascination of all genuine self-
expression is in A. S. M. Hutchin-
son’s A Year That the Locust (ex-
amined on page 2). Mr. Hutchinson, in
this diary kept for only half a year, gives
a picture of the mind and personality of
a popular writer —himself —that is well
worth looking at.
Rosita Forbes’s Women Called Wild
(Grayson ; Angus and Robertson;
18s. 6d.) approaches nearer to the great
masterpieces of travel than the general
mass of travel writings approach to it.
The author—she owns a bagful of medals
and other honors from geographical
societies, and is one of the most travelled
persons alive —-here takes the reader into
the stranger parts of half the world, each
chapter a separate adventure. Topically,
she begins with a visit to the slave-
trading regions of Abyssinia, giving eye-
witness description of methods of making
slaves saleable which survive in that
allegedly Christian land, then going with
a caravan of slaves to the coast, seeing
them transported across the Red Sea, and
afterwards witnessing their sale in
Arabian and other markets. She touches
more familiar ground in her accounts of
Soviet Russia and revolutionary China,
but even here her close observation,
detached outlook and strong and color-
ful literary style give freshness to the
scenes. In addition to those qualities,
there is one element which, more than
anything else, makes this a travel book
in hundreds. This is that in all the
scenes depicted women are given some-
thing like the importance that they
would have in actuality. In the mass of
travel books—even when the writers are
women —that is hardly ever achieved.
As a result, though women may appear
in all travel books, they are seldom real
women. This writer gives them life.
More, she makes them the central char-
acters, and men —for once in travel
writing are the minor, though
numerous, actors. Thus the interest
centres on the dominant figure of a girl
murderer in the Russian scene ; a girl
Communist in China ; Halide, the Joan
of Arc of modern Turkey; a girl
priestess among the flame-dancers of
Dutch Guiana (a great piece of writing,
that); a girl who takes her among the
Voodoo worshippers of Haiti ; a French-
woman who has made Tibet her familiar
home; a woman with the Foreign
Legion ; and the women of the harems
and less reputable places of the Near
East. A strongly handled pen, capable
of making any scene the author has
looked on visible to the reader, does the
rest of its job freshly also. A fault is
the too evident intrusion here and there
of the author’s novel-writing talent.
Some occurrences seem a bit too deli-
berately arranged to provide dramatic
effects ; the novelist’s hand can be seen.
That apart, it is a finely written and
intensely interesting book.
Women dominate the scene also in
Dorothy L. Sayers’s Gaudy Night
(Gollancz ; Bs. 6d.), a story of detection
as far above the general run of this kind
of fiction as the other book is above
usual travel writing. The setting—a
women’s college at Oxford—is drawn as
carefully as if the depicting of it was
the author’s main concern in writing the
novel. This place—every corridor and
room of it becomes familiar—she peoples
with seemingly dozens of women dons
and students, each so well constructed
that again this might have been the
novelist’s chief concern. Even when, as
shortly happens, an undetectable maniac
in the midst begins a cunningly
conducted campaign which threatens to
provide the place and its occupants with
highly damaging scandalous publicity,
the thrill element though present
enough, with suspicion shifting from one
to another, and nerves being frayed to
hysteria in the process —is never allowed
to shift interest from the large number
of finely contrasted main actors in the
drama, not even in the final cleaning-up,
which is the weakness of all detection
fiction, this included. On these and other
counts, Gaudy Night can be described as
a fine novel apart from its thrill interest
altogether.
»
The Amiable Charles, by Grant Rich-
ards (Cassell ; 7s. 6d.). Story of a
middle-aged man, Charles Caerleon, who
loses his comfortable fortune (all except
£9OO a year), goes to work, and earns
the gratitude of his employer by cover-
ing up that married gentleman’s indis-
cretions with a lady not his wife. Em-
ployer bequeaths substantial wealth to
Mr. Caerleon. Characters indetermin-
ately drawn, and chronicles of small beer
pad out a dearth of incident.
Murder at Glen Athol, by Norman
Lippincott (Master Thriller Library ; 7s.
6d.). In current standardised mystery
murder must be committed at crowded
country-house parties. The author oblig-
ingly gives that setting. False clues must
sidetrack the sleuth. Here they do so —
ingeniously, it must be said. Identity of
the murderer must be concealed until
the final chapter. That is rigidly con-
formed to. It is Amurrkan, snappy, and
speeds to the denouement on stream-
lined sentences. The only thing missing
is a tabloid reporter.
When Sorrows Come, by H. A. Vachell
(Cassell; 7s. 6d.) George Faradine, in
danger of being bankrupted by fraudu-
lent company promoters, is saved by his
wife, Lady Joyce (she’s an earl’s daugh-
ter). Seriously injured in a railway acci-
dent, she nevertheless achieves a sort of
automaton activity, and returns to her
home while her spirit is colloguing with
the shades. With knowledge gained
in the spirit world she is able to frustrate
the financial swindlers who threaten her
husband, and also to save the careers of
her twin son and daughter.
New Zealand, Land of My Choice, by
Ellen Roberts (George Allen and Unwin;
10s. 6d.), is the work of a medico’s wife
who saw more of Maoriland than most
folk because she lived first in the North
Island and then in the South, travelled
extensively inland in both sections, and
also completely circumnavigated both
islands in the Government steamer
Tutanekai. Furthermore, she had a spell
of life on a sheep station, took an in-
tense interest in dairying, studied the
Maoris, and altogether prepared herself
adequately for penning a bright account
of the Land of the Fern.
The Fool, by Enid Welsford (Faber
and Faber; Angus and Robertson;
31s. 6d.). Elaborate study of profes-
sional fools from the early crude buf-
foons to Charlie Chaplin. Oddly
seriously writing considering the sub-
ject: in fact, it is to be praised more
for its scholarship than anything else.
Book is beautifully made.
Adam’s Fifth Rib, by John Everard
(Chapman and Hall ; Angus and Robert-
son ; 18s. 6d.). Exceptionally lovely lot
of large photographic studies of the
female form. Incomparably better than
most things of the kind in that the
models are beautiful.
The Turf-cutter’s Donkey Goes Visit-
ing, by Patricia Lynch (Dent; ss. net).
More adventures of this inspired animal,
with leprechauns, witches, kings, seals,
pigs and other inhabitants of an en-
chanted corner of the Irish coast. Especi-
ally well illustrated by George Altendorf,
and most gracefully written, it belongs
to the choicest order of child-literature
reading.
Tents in Mongolia, by Henning Has-
lund, has been given a simplified ren-
dering for inclusion in Kegan Paul’s
admirable venture in presenting many
such fine modern books in a series for
boys and girls. This one is of the very
best of books for boys—high adventure,
none the less glorious for being true (6s.
net).
Aces and Kings, by L. W. Sutherland,
in collaboration with Norman Ellison
(Angus and Robertson ; 65.). Good, and
would have been better still without the
eagerness to be on good terms with the
reader, resulting in a buttonholing
manner of writing. The material is ex-
cellent: an officer’s recollections of ad-
venture with No. 1 Squadron, Aus. Flying
Corps, in Palestine. A chapter describ-
ing many T. E. Lawrence exploits as
personally known to the author alone
makes it a book worth reading.
Modern Bookbinding, by Douglas
Leighton (Dent; Is. 6d. net). The Dent
Memorial Lecture for 1935 ; a pamphlet
survey most interesting to those in the
craft, though informative also to others.
The “Australian Quarterly” (25.).
December number contains an exception-
ally fine lot of articles even for this ex-
cellent quarterly. Contributors include
Attorney-General Menzies on the rela-
tions and feelings towards each other of
the British Dominions ; Professor F. A.
Bland analyses Dr. Earle Page’s National
Councils scheme; Dr. R. E. Priestley,
Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne Univer-
sity, examines what a university ought to
be and to do ; Professor K. H. Bailey
explains sanctions; C. Badger, lecturer
at Adelaide University, discusses Fas-
cism ; C. Kaeppel on “This Abyssinian
Business” ; actor Ivan Menzies on “The
Oxford Group,” and others.


\V.SV<V.V.V
ill! II Hi
ft!
S SS
mm
R
m
!■ S i
II
ill
I
*y>- v j:
5-.fi
wwvyv
■lSu
n:
ssisSsSSsSi
: ' fi|
j| : %
X%;
, *
Hi
L
ii
. °*
amazing _ ivnES by DuntoP
WfffKss cn»o r,BES
Abrasion tests, tests of tensile
strength of rubber and cotton,
w road shock” tests all are part of the routine in the Dunlop
factory and all proved the amazing wear-resisting qualities of
Dunlop Weftless Cord Tyres. Dunlop went one step further.
They fitted double-loaded 3 ton trucks with Weftless Cord Tyres
and had them driven night and day over all types of roads—6oo
miles a day for months on end! Yet, even when the treads were
worn away, the Weftless Cord Casings were still safe and sound!
In the factory and on the road, every test proves that Weftless
Cord Tyres by Dunlop outwear and outlast all other tyres.
Your nearest tvre dealer can supply your size—at no extra cost.
Weftless cord tyres
DUNLOP
WILL GIVE
'MAXIMUM BLOWOUT PROTECTION
* GREATER NON-SKID MILEAGE
* LONGER CASING LIFE
IAS BRITISH AS THE FLAG 1
pi!
gi
DI7NLOP
CjoLdJ^JiuiL
PRODUCT OF OUNLOP PERDRIAU
Perdriau
AA
TRIANGLE TREAD
PRODUCT OF DUNLOP PERDRIAU
F. 73.75


ROYAL
PURPLE.
-,*l.
. ■ ■
, <<** •*>*
Vr&~£2*r+*
m MBpIM
?~ v**~ rt*%
IV-
:•#>*"
...V £R
m-m:**-
**
c ? &•
*& **%
4*^?^
>*»*. ■■'%**'
igiM&Jlt*
m
m
m .a*
**fc <**
.•*>
;-H
aj&gg
CS
■ ,?• -• . /
j", *
•u
/,
4 ...
m
- -;
*
•wv-...-.. ...
t ?"' w '
■// ■
'/
,/T:
«: t?%,
Sms .
> i i
■ ;
n ,. %
*n
Vi
\. as— m
k A ;
mmm i
■
-,: ,""i
mi , : ,1
Wine-filled casks waiting to be placed in storage. Stocks over 4\ million gallons.
jtffcfd c Mne{<f-itrt£ rnuUmu/fiiet


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2918.
January 15, 1936.
CARLO'S AMENABLE.
“The League had to act. Every minor member-State demanded that it should. For the essential factor was that Italy was peculiarly amenable to sanctions It is
easy to quote cases where sanctions could not succeed—Japan in 1931-32, Germany, the United States, Russia. The League must now proceed «««*£»«•
“Members of da Geneva push, ve gotta tackle somebodee oddervise da push vill disband. Takahashi, Fritz, Unclesam, Ivan—no, no! Too
beeg an’ too nasty. But Carlo, ah, yes! Carlo, he—vot does da great Ostrellya paper say?—pecooliarly amenable!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Soura Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
T ~ Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
i^’ ee t0 i AN y, A P DRESS in Australasia,
weekly 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and mler-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
PROPAGANDA FOR WAR.
Towards war irresistibly marches onwards Our
Glorious Press. And if we get it —this war that impli-
cation lauds as a means of having peace ; as somehow
compatible with humanitarian principles and Chris-
tian doctrine —then Our Glorious Press will have
something to answer for. It has something to answer
for already.
Not only the Australian section of it. The cables
—through swallowing which some of our dailies have
brought themselves to a frantically heady state —are
nearly all the fruits of culling the English newspapers.
The English public, too, has been fed with stuff that
makes “Abyssinian news” a synonym for absurdity
and falsehood. The result? Bluntly, that such a
state of feeling against Italy has been provoked that
peace upon any terms other than the humiliation of
that country is now difficult, almost impossible.
That was finally demonstrated in the hysterical
outcry against the Hoare-Laval peace proposals. A
condition of those proposals was that they should
be acceptable to all three parties—the League, Italy,
Abyssinia. That was not enough. Brought to the
verge of open-war hysteria by months of loaded
propaganda, the threat of peace, minus a humiliated
Italy, came as a most unsatisfactory climax to a
harrowing tale.
Propaganda for war had overrun itself. Not for
the first time. In the last war propaganda was used
for a weapon as never before. Without question it
proved a powerful weapon. Mere phrases like “a
scrap of paper” and “poor little Belgium” were
weapons against. Germany more powerful than bat-
teries of guns. The gentlemen of the press ventured
better still. They invented the “corpse factories,”
where the atrocious Huns boiled down the dead and
skimmed the fat. And in that and other such atrocity
stories propaganda for war overran itself; for no-
thing invented by their own propaganda geniuses
welded the German people more firmly together than
our own crude and lying tales of frightfulness.
Now again propaganda for war has gone over
the mark. It has brought that part of the world that
is represented in the League of Nations to a state
of mind in which the desire for peace is subordinate
to a sadistic desire that can be satisfied only by the
humiliation of the object against which hatred has
been inflamed.
.That is the hard, ugly truth about the failure
of the peace effort. If the press were not entirely
sensation-crazed it should view with shamed horror
its part in the destruction of that effort: not the
destruction of the plan, but of the effort towards
peace and the consequent instruction towards war.
Acting on its now-established principle that no
methods of spreading sensation are foul, it secured
a version of the proposals and served this up gar-
nished with its violent disapproval. Of course, that
swayed people. Proposals to ensure peace for ever
would be made monstrous in that sort of presentation.
And these proposals did not ensure anything. They
were merely tentative possible peace terms intended
to be a basis of consideration among the parties
concerned.
The press not only opposed the kind of peace
thus proposed: it prevented even the consideration
of the proposals. In other words, it threw its power
savagely against the idea of peace. Not inconsistently.
Never once when war has threatened has the daily
press thrown the weight of its power against war.
Neither in England nor here.
That is as terrible an indictment as could be
brought against anything that has influence upon the
welfare of mankind. Yet —terrible as it is—it is
indisputably true. If it is inconceivable to anybody,
the newspaper files in the public libraries are there
to make it convincing. The performance of the daily-
press in all wars in which we have been involved or
with which we have been threatened is there on
despicable record. Since the World War we here
have been threatened with two others —the war against
Turkey that Lloyd George nearly engineered in 1921-
22, and the war that hangs over us now. In neither
instance have the body of our dailies declared them-
selves against war. Neither on these nor on any
other occasions have they declared themselves for
peace. A record so shameful that to look on it is
to be ashamed.
What reason may lie behind this frantic unreason
is a matter for distant history to establish. In the
present perspective there appears to be no explaining
it. It is something inherent in the psychology of
the press as a powerful colossus striding the world.
It is palpably too unreasonable, too utterly divorced
from sense and sanity, to have a basis of deliberately
calculated intent. The evil is something belonging
to the character of the daily press itself; something
that is not to be explained as merely the natural
outcome of dealing continuously in sensationalism as
a daily practice ; nor to be explained, either, by the
idea that the daily press shares with armament firms
and food profiteers the only sort of profit that war
offers.
Whatever the explanation, the terrible indict-
ment stands ; and it is unanswerable. Until it can
be answered and refuted by performance—until a
time when the daily press will throw the whole body
of its weight against war and say that it has seen
shambles enough—until it has cast out this evil that
is now a part of it, foully prostituting it to the ends
of war —until it can uphold the ideal of peace, and
not the fallacy of a war to make peace, which is its
vicious delusion now —until it can acknowledge the
vileness of inflaming and corrupting the minds of
men by false report and loaded propaganda to anger
and hatred —until that unimaginable day when it can
stand clean above its monstrous history of never
once having thrown the weight of its power against
war or the threat of war—until then, the Glorious
Press stands branded with a mark besides which
Cain’s was a mere circumstance, for Cain slew
only one.
THE TRANSPORT-STRANGLERS.
The situation which has been brought about in
Queensland by three civil servants, authorised and
expected by the Government to put road transport out
of action as a competitor with the State railways,
should receive the close attention of every Australian
elector. N. S. Wales has had a surfeit' of the same
thing. And the worst is feared in Victoria, whose
Transport Minister has been “conferring with the
Transport Ministers in N. S. Wales and Queensland,”
and whose State Government is about “to consider its
transport policy.”
The real question at issue is whether the public
is to be allowed road services, which it prefers, and
which are essential to rural development, as well as
to the civil and military safety of Australia, or whether
politicians, egged on by departments and trade-unions
of Government employees, are to be allowed to
deprive the public of these vital advantages.
The situation in Queensland is that, immediately
the rising of Parliament early in December left the field
free of risk, the State Transport Board, by refusals of
registration, imposition of outrageous “fees”—up to
£9OO p.a. for one heavy truck—and prosecutions, sum-
marily obliterated every important road service for
200 miles and more around Brisbane. That, in doing
so, it wrecked old-established carrying businesses, that
it deprived hundreds of families of their sole means
of support, that it drove hard-working men on the
dole, that it thrust hundreds of farmers and store-
keepers to the verge of bankruptcy, that it brought
returned soldiers to a pass where the only choice was
between paying a fine which it was beyond their means
to pay or going to gaol for six months, that it suddenly
deprived the public, at the beginning of the holiday
season, of means of communication which the public
warmly preferred to railways—none of these things
troubled the transport-stranglers. The board had its
orders from the union-dominated Government and
the Commissioner of Railways was its chairman and
sole mouthpiece.
From the decisions of this board there is no
appeal. Against its legal activities there is no defence.
And on it there is no representative of the public
or of the industry it has been appointed to massacre.
But', for once, the public did not take it lying
down. After the first burst of savage penalties and
arbitrary wreckage of communications, such a storm
of indignant protest arose that the board —or its
masters —made a hurried attempt at compromise.
“Co-ordinated services” were to be introduced, with
motor road mileage by appointed carriers, charged as
rail-mileage, from appointed stations. Prosecutions
were dropped, or only small penalties inflicted. A
few of the more active victims were told that they
might continue, more or less under the rose, provided
they paid the “fees.” It became clear that the board
—or its masters —was realising that it had made a
mistake, and that the vote-fodder wasn’t so soft as
had been imagined.
Then came another storm of protest from the
“co-ordinated service” tenderers. They had tendered
on the implied condition that all opposition was to be
put off the roads they covered. The board was allow-
ing a great deal of it to continue, for fear of evoking
more trouble. The co-ordinators pointed out that they
had tendered on that condition ; the board replied that
nothing had been said about it in the contract. The
contractors had mostly accepted at cut rates, and were
further mulcted of 10 per cent., so that, although there
might be a living in it during the busy holiday season,
the dead times of winter offered only a rapid path to
bankruptcy. The board politely intimated that that
was none of its business.
Meanwhile the people are telling the board that
they don’t want its “co-ordination.” All they desire
is fair competition for road services with the over-
staffed, overcharging, inconvenient and disobliging
Railways Department.
One feature of the transport-strangulation policy
has a sinister applicability in these days of strikes and
war-clouds. Suppression of road-transport means that,
in the event of a simultaneous shipping and railway
strike, or of military or civil action interfering with
rail and sea services, the cities could not be fed.
The function of State Transport Boards like
Queensland’s is solely impedimentary and destructive
—even such a relatively small transport disturbance as
the shipping strike proves their utter uselessness as a
constructive or dynamic transport factor. They were
created merely to hold off the inevitable collapse of
the present Government railway monopolies under
their own weight.
It will be wise for every Australian elector to
watch with interest and sympathy Queensland’s fight
against a bureaucratic system which simply plays into
the hands of strikers and foreign enemies at the
taxpayers’ cost.
LAWYERS AND DEAD MEN DECIDE.
The Supreme Court of the U.S.A. has done with
the Agricultural Adjustment Act (AAA) what it did
with the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA)—
pronounced it unconstitutional, “an invasion of State
rights.” In other words, it has ruled out the principal
parts of the Roosevelt programme for coping with
far and away the worst depression the Republic has
known. It has ratified (or sanctioned) only the most
dubious part—the elimination of the gold clause from
United States bond contracts.
Many follies have been committed in the name
°f AAA. The central idea was to raise the price of
agricultural produce by curtailing production. Farmers
were instructed to plough-in crops and destroy live-
stock, being recompensed out of the proceeds of stiff
“processing” taxes levied on manufacturers and paid
by consumers. As if Nature were rebelling against
this sorry return for its bounty, drought scourged huge
grain-raising regions, and grain had to be imported.
The price of “processed” hog-meat rose so high that
people couldn’t or wouldn’t buy it, and a new form
of bootlegging set in.
The position was further complicated by a
remarkable back-to-the-land movement of country-
born people (2,000,000, it has been estimated) who
in the “good” times had rushed to the cities (to
this movement because of short-sighted adminis-
tration, there has been no parallel in Australia). And
other difficulties arose. Cotton-farmers forbidden to
grow more than the prescribed quantity of cotton
planted potatoes, which had not been controlled. So
many other clients of the AAA followed their example
that the markets were glutted with potatoes. Followed
an AAA amendment making it “a crime for a farmer,
on his own land, to grow a potato and sell it, except
in a Federal package bearing a Federal stamp” signify-
ing that the seller of the spuds had paid the tax
(“three-fourths of one cent per pound on each first
sale”) or that the package was tax-free ; making it
a crime also “to drive out to a farm and buy a sack
of potatoes”: penalty, $lOOO for a first offence; for
a second offence, imprisonment “along with the
farmer.” A nation-wide revolt against potato-control
was beginning when the Supreme Court struck.
But, whatever may be thought of the Roosevelt
policies, the fact remains that a majority of the
American people stood, and probably still stand,
behind the Government that introduced them. The
President was elected in 1932 by the greatest popular
vote ever given to a leader of the nation, and at the
congressional elections two years later his party gained
substantially in both Houses. In the Senate when Con-
gress met there were 69 Democrats, 25 Republicans,
one Farmer-Labor man and one Progressive, each with
Roosevelt sympathies ; in the House of Representa-
tives, 322 Democrats, 102 Republicans, three Farmer-
Laborites and seven Progressives—so overwhelming
was popular approval of the New Deal. Yet six
Judges interpreting a Constitution framed in the
eighteenth century declare (three other Judges differ
from them) that measures thus endorsed by the people
are invalid, and that the tremendous operations con-
nected with them must be cancelled, though the finan-
cial structure of the country crash. In effect, they
say that under the Constitution as written —and
amendment is a tedious and uncertain process —the
Government cannot do what it considers necessary for
the nation in a great crisis.
Expedients not unlike some of the AAA proposals
have been introduced in Britain. No question of
constitutionality there ; Parliament decided the matter,
and no Court can tear up its laws. Thus in an
emergency requiring prompt and unchallengeable
action the English are masters of their fate. This is
true also of the Maorilanders and the South Africans.
It is not true of nations with legalistic systems ; and
the Americans have such a system, and so have we.
The almost-successful challenge to the Financial
Agreement Enforcement Act was a warning to our
national Government to ask the people for power to
mend the system; but, though “Follow Britain” is
the Government’s motto in matters of finance and
foreign policy, it does not apply where following
Britain would do most good.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Miners Decline.
Competition for the leather medal, bun, biscuit and
special prize of lOd. for the most asinine public
utterance of last week was made particularly keen
by the effort to whip the coalminers into supporting
the seamen’s suicide strike. Miners’ Federation secre-
tary Orr won narrowly by a dull head.
Mr. Orr declaimed that “when the Federal Gov-
ernment intervened certain negotiations were in pro-
gress between representatives of the seamen and some
of the shipowners, but the action of the Government
put an end to them, and served only to pro-
long the dispute”—a distortion of the true position as
wild as its words are vague.
The Government would not have been worthy
to run a stray-dogs’ home if it had not acted. Its
action, far from prolonging the dispute, brought it
to an end. Also, it informed the Communistic
brethren responsible for the strike that there was still
some power for upholding the country’s law and there
were men with the will to enforce it.
There was nothing hasty about this action that
enabled shipping to resume its job of serving industry
and public convenience. On the contrary, the seamen
were given so much time for second thoughts that
their soviet of misleaders had no trouble in persuading
them that the Government was bluffing.
The miners declined to be similarly duped. The
few who favored striking would probably have voted
for an even more ridiculous proposal if it had been
possible for strike-urgers to think of one. They were
opposed by a majority of more than five to one
turning the sympathy strike proposal down with a
terrible flatness. The total vote—s7Bo to 1167 against
strike—only confirmed what was already known:
that the body of unionism was strongly against the
sort of strike by which the Seamen’s Union was
misled to destruction.
The vote, in fact, was a suggestion to the seamen
that they should drop their Communist misleaders and
return to unionism. There is no question that
unionism has been hard hit in the strike, but there is
also no question about who struck the blow. It
was struck by the soviet which duped the seamen into
striking, directly against the advice of their union’s
Federal and State officials.
The voices of a thousand Orrs could not distort
that from being the plain fact. And the miners knew !it.
The misled seamen are now indefinitely out of
employment, and the bulk of them —probably more
than half—may never see their jobs again. That,
with the misery to their dependents it involves, is
plain tragedy; but—as unionism has now bluntly
told the sufferers—it is the normal tragic price that
dupes who accept the misleadership of fools must be
prepared to pay.
The seamen’s course has been clearly indicated
to them by the miners’ unmistakable vote. It is to
give up being dupes, drop the callous asses who have
misled them into this tragedy, and get back to union-
ism. In that they would have the support of Aus-
tralia. Australia has a solid liking for unionism. It
has no liking whatever for Communism.
“It Is London and”....
On December 16 Attorney-General Manning left
Sydney for London “to represent N. S. Wales and
Queensland at the hearing of the Privy Council appeal
in James v. the Commonwealth, which is expected to
be taken early in the new year.” Attorney-General
Menzies is also booked for London to hold a brief
for the Commonwealth, but he was not so prompt
off the mark. Perhaps he decided that London
could stagger along without him until his presence
was really required. It has since been reported that
the case is not yet listed, and may not be heard till
June.
On December 19 Premier Forgan Smith, com-
plete with private secretary, set out on an overseas
tour, which is “expected to last till June.” His darling
object is to attend a sugar conference, “to take place
early in March.” For the year to June 30, 1935, the
wanderings of Mr. Smith and his private secretary
cost Queensland taxpayers £875, in addition to their
salaries. While they were packing their bags for
London, it was announced from Canberra that Dr.
Page, the Minister of Commerce, was also going to
the sugar conference (with private secretary) to “repre-
sent Australia.”
The arrangements for the sugar conference are
in the hands of the British Government. Disturbing
reports have reached Australia that the British Gov-
ernment is not keen about it. This is denied, but
“it is authoritatively stated” that “the British Govern-
ment is giving sufficient notice to the most distant
countries to attend the conference which is not now
likely to be held before April.”
So Mr. Forgan Smith and his private secretary
will have to kill time for a couple of months before
the demnition grind begins. Mr. Manning’s
soul will be tried for a still longer period. Still
Mr. Manning will be cheered by a reunion with his
chief, Mr. Stevens, who is going to London (with
private secretary) to do something or other, though
State borrowing in London has ceased, N. S. Wales
has a brisk trade agent, and Minister Dunningham
was there last year.
Breaking in rudely on these plans for sojourns
in London, a Hobart correspondent states that Dr.
Bradfield, the bridge-builder, has been asked to report
on a project for throwing a bridge across the Derwent.
If Dr. Bradfield is satisfied that the proposal is
practicable, he will visit Tasmania without charge.
Without charge !
“Fellow-politicians, the motion before the Chair
is that Dr. Bradfield be permanently excluded from
the Deadheads’ Union. All in favor? .... Carried
unanimously.”
■ — ♦
Looking Under the Bed.
A staple mid-Victorian newspaper joke was the
picture of the old maid looking timidly under her
bed for the comic burglar. “Granny” Herald and
other Great Dailies carry on the tradition. Every
now and then a shadow sends them into hysterics.
The other evening, peering under the four-poster,
“Granny” let out a piercing yell. For there, all dressed
up, was “the Oriental Menace,” as imagined by the
“Daily Herald,” one of those English papers which
advance the cause of pacifism by having a go at every
foreign military Power except Russia. The Tokio
correspondent of the “Daily Herald” had discovered
in the Japanese press “violent anti-British articles,”
laying stress on Britain’s “industrial and military
decline” and “its inability to further develop its
colonies.”
There are about 1400 daily papers in Japan.
The only one mentioned by the “Daily Hetald” man
is “the influential ‘Kokumin Shimbun’,” which has a
circulation of 150,000 ; the “Asahi” and the “Nichi
Nichi” sell over a million copies each, and the
“Yomiuri” 600,000 copies. Millions of Japanese no
more agree with the views of the “Kokumin” than
do millions of Australians with the soporific doses
administered through the leading columns of the
“S.M.H.”
Japan, though no longer a member of the
League, is still bound by treaties which affect the
Pacific. It is a party to the Kellogg Pact, to the Four-
Power Treaty and to a treaty with the U.S.A. To
the Washington Agreement and the London naval
pact of 1930 it has adhered to the letter.
When the Latham mission was in Japan M.
Hirota, the Foreign Minister, said:
Japan and Australia have continually maintained
cordial relations. Our co-operation in the Great War
is still fresh in our memory; our co-operation since
then for the cause of world peace has been no less
whole-hearted. Our trade has been steadily expand-
ing. Before the war it amounted to £2,000,000 a year,
last year to £25,000,000. Our trade relations are
destined to grow even closer.
He urged the appointment of an Australian Minister
to Tokio, but afterwards agreed, on the suggestion
of Mr. Latham, that there were so few outstanding
differences between the two countries that a diplomatic
appointment was scarcely justified.
M. Hirota is still Foreign Minister, and the atti-
tude of his Government has not changed. The
“Kokumin Shimbun” no more speaks for his empire
than the “Daily Herald” for ours. Alarmists are
enemies of both.
♦
Toll-bars and Somersaults.
Not satisfied with the assaults of its Transport
Strangulation Board on road services, the Queensland
Government proposes to levy a toll on all who use the
North Coast-road. Already the toll principle is in
operation on the South Coast-road, and well over
£60,000 has been collected by its means during the
past four years. It has more than paid for the bridges
over the Logan and Coomera rivers, and is evidently
now regarded as a permanent source of revenue.
At the time that the South-road toll was intro-
duced by the Moore Government', Mr. Forgan Smith,
then Leader of the Opposition, denounced it in strong
terms. He described it as a reversion to a practice
which modern countries had discontinued for many
years. He pointed out that large sums were collected
from owners and users of motor vehicles for road-
construction, and that further large sums were made
available from State and Commonwealth funds. He
maintained with much force that such was the only
fair or equitable method of financing such construc-
tion. “The institution of the toll-system,” said Mr.
Smith in 1929, “can only be regarded as a reversion
to a system of taxation which is vicious in the
extreme.”
The party naturally followed Mr. Smith in
registering its opposition to so archaic a form of taxa-
tion. Among those who recorded their disapproval was
Mr. Bruce, after whom the Bruce Highway, or North
Coast-road, is now named. Mr. Bruce is the actual
author of the proposal to charge a toll for its use. It
would be interesting to know what has happened since
1929 to cause both Mr. Bruce and his leader to per-
form so complete a somersault. The probable answer
is an election —or, perhaps, a lemon.
♦
“Selling” Dried Fruits.
Under the Export Control Act, which began to operate
last year, all Australian dealers in dried fruits must have
export licenses. There is, of course, a Dried Fruits
Board with colossal powers, and nobody can get a
license without agreeing to regulations under which
he must: —•
(1) Ship all dried fruit through and to such agents
as are authorised by the board. (2) Insure each ship-
ment of dried fruit with such persons as the board
determines. (3) Sell all dried fruit on such terms and
conditions as are approved by the board and to such
purchasers through such agents and in such quantities
as the board determines.
All fruit sent to London is valued by a board official,
and must not be sold under the price which he puts
upon it. There was a case in which a consignment
was marked at 425. per hundredweight. An offer
of 40s. was refused for it. Some months afterwards,
when storage charges had mounted as high as Bellen-
den Ker, it was got rid of at 28s. Boards are exempt
from liability in these matters.
Maoriland has a buying organisation with branches
in all the main cities—National Distributors. It is
the sole buyer for the Self-help Stores, which have
145 branches, and also huys for 400 other stores. It
is on the wholesale list for all goods manufactured
in Australia and the Dominion except for those of
the Dried Fruits Board. The C.S.R. treats it on
a favored-customer basis —it buys £85,000 worth of
sugar p.a. and £20,000 worth of other Australian
products and maintains a policy of Imperial prefer-
ence when it can. The Australian Dried Fruits Asso-
ciation deals with it. But .the vine fruits which the
Dried Fruits Board handles it is not allowed to buy—
apparently because it is not a member of the N.Z.
Merchants’ Association —though its market will
absorb 10 p.c. of all dried fruit sold in its territory:
8000 cases of currants and sultanas p.a. alone, plus
8000 cases of tinned fruits and 6500 boxes of prunes.
The company says it has offered to pay on
demand draft at shipment or delivery, and has given
an undertaking not to give special discounts or cut
prices against other buyers. But the board is
adamant. So Californians and Canadians are now
getting the orders which the company is anxious to
place with Australian growers.
The board calls this sort of thing marketing.
In a recent report, printed at a time when it was
refusing to sell to National Distributors, it had the
face to record that “the development of substantial
markets in Canada and New Zealand is of supreme
importance.”
♦
Trees in Melbourne StKeets.
After half a century of talk, it appears as if the
opposition to planting trees in the city streets is likely
to be overcome in Melbourne. It was in the ’seventies
that the city first experimented in tree-planting, and
even the small stretch at the top of Collins-street was
held by a big minority to be condemned to ruin by t! ;
presence of trees. It survived the predicted disaster,
and became the most attractive part of the city ; never-
theless, the same hostility greeted each successive
endeavor to extend the beautification.
Even within the past few weeks, when a newly-
enlightened council sought to plant Collins-street from
end to end with trees, shopkeepers in the “Block”
area raised such a howl that the authorities were
forced to exempt that part from the general scheme.
Now it is suggested that the planting be extended
to Bourke-street for its whole length. It is probable
that the existence of street awnings on the south side
may cause delay or alteration, but there is little doubt
that the northern side, now undeniably ugly, will be
made as decorative as the top of Collins-street.
Shopkeepers should welcome tree-planting where
it can be done, as it can in Melbourne. Anything
that improves the appearance of a shop is good for
trade. Many prosperous businesses in Paris and
Berlin and in the most modern American cities are
conducted behind leafy bowers.
It will not be possible to plant Australian trees
in the more important thoroughfares, for the ever-
greens create an undesirable nuisance in wet weather;
but outside populous areas Melbourne should stick
to the foliage of its country. Los Angeles has shown
the world what civic beauty can be created by the
use of our flowering-gums.
-♦ ■
The Reasonable Way.
E. J. Holloway, M.P., who defeated S. M. Bruce
for Flinders and now sits for Melbourne Ports,
regarded in U.A.P. circles as an “extremist” con-
stituency, made some sensible remarks on the shipping
strike.
What, he asked, had become of the principle of
the round-table conference?
A few years ago men associated with every section
of both sides of organised industry almost pledged
themselves never again to close the door to overtures
from either side, but to meet in conference. Of cases
submitted to conference, 95 p.c. found a formula to
prevent dislocation or in the quickest time to regain
normal operations where a dislocation occurred.
Only careerists and fatheaded youngsters and the
revolutionary working to the Leninist dictum that
“every strike is a step towards revolution, every
moderate organiser dumped equivalent to an enemy
killed,” actually want “dislocation.” On the em-
ployers’ side the diehard unwilling to see the other
fellow’s point of view is becoming extinct. The bulk
of Australian employers have long ago learnt that
it is far cheaper to pay as good a wage as the indus-
try can afford and to have workers contented and
fully productive than to lose money through bicker-
ings and stoppages. In shipping strikes, the loss in
wages alone between the end of the war and 1930
was equal to a year’s wages for 10,000 men at £5
per week.
Australia should be civilised enough to allow of
a return to collective bargaining between employers
and employees and of the sweeping away of the vast
and expensive network of industrial courts, com-
mittees and officers.
4
The People’s Reading.
Prahran is a municipality —one of the few in Victoria
—that can boast an excellent lending library for resi-
dents. In addition, it runs a children’s library, which
is as complete as that for adults.
For the year just past, Prahran records a slump
in fiction-reading—due not to the public having
lost its desire to follow the adventures of Bertie and
Gertie, but to the rise of competition from the three-
penny lending-libraries which have sprung up under
private enterprise in every suburb.
From the municipal library’s standpoint, _ the
transfer of custom is a healthy one, for the librarian’s
aim is to encourage the reading of books other than
fiction for educative and technical reasons.
People who desire amusement only should be
ready to pay for it. In Prahran, apparently, they
get the novel they want at the nearest private library
and pay threepence for it, rather than make their way
to the town hall and find that somebody has been
there before them. So is presented the rare instance
of everybody—public library, private libraries and
customers —being satisfied.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Westernhaugh”: Though I was un-
able to attend the Highland gathering
in Sydney on New Year’s Day, press
photographs of the festivities pursued me
to my fastnesses, and with the usual
upsetting effect. Hordes of young
females showed their legs in a costume
no Highland woman would permit her
daughter to assume for a moment. The
great majority of those present were
obvious Lowlanders with no claim what-
ever to wear the philabeg. One man
appeared in a photograph wearing an
evening-dress doublet and waistcoat with
his kilt at midday—a hideous solecism
which caused me to cry vainly for a
stimulant. If any further proof were
needed that the gathering contained few
true Scots of any kind it may be found
in the statement of a prominent Sydney
fancy-dress-hiring firm that one of its
assistants, while putting a Scottish cos-
tume away after return, found 2s. in the
sporran..
* * * $
“Ymar”: Even in these days of crisp,
tersely expressive speech some people
still cling to Johnsonian diction. The
judge in a big literary competition wrote
of my essay: “Her addiction to the par-
ticipial phrase amounts almost to a dis-
ease.” Then, to be more impressive, he
crossed out “disease” and substituted
“pathologic condition”!
* * * *
“G.M.”: Modern kids cease to be
mystified by the supernatural manifesta-
tions which used to astound their fathers.
I heard an eight-year-old being told the
story of “The Forty Thieves,” and
noticed that he was very little impressed
at the boulder rising from the mouth of
the robbers’ cave when Ali Baba cried
“Open Sesame.” The story-teller stopped
to ask “Wasn’t that wonderful?” but the
youngster remained blase. “I suppose
it was fitted with one of those sound-
track films like they have in the talkies,”
he ventured.
* H* H* ❖
“Kwakprak”: Mr.—late Miss —Zdenka
Koubkava, women’s world champion
track runner over 800 metres, and the
subject of considerable comment at the
White City, London, last year, is by no
means an unusual case. The condition
is well known, and depends on the failure
of certain seams to unite properly during
embryonic development. Usually it is
detected in early childhood, and cor-
rected surgically without any more pub-
licity than is provided by puzzled parents
and inquisitive neighbors and friends.
The “man-woman” who appears from
time to time in press news (or local
gossip), sometimes in tragic or dramatic
circumstances, is usually an untreated
case of the kind. The Chevalier d’Eon
was probably one. It has been argued
with some historical reason that Queen
Elizabeth was another, but later research
indicates that she was a real woman.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Policemen are the only
Government servants who can claim free
transport on any type of vehicle. Even
politicians must pay their way on
privately-owned buses. Yet, while naval
visitors from foreign countries are car-
ried free on trains and trams, our own
naval men get no such concession. Some
day perhaps a grateful country will make
the way clear for “Jack” to keep a pay-
ing fare off a seat.
* * $ $
“Scribe”: When the ill-fated General
Hector Macdonald visited Melbourne a
generation ago, recently-knighted E. S.
Cunningham, then chief-of-staff of the
“Argus,” allotted me the job of inter-
viewing him. Of course, it was expected
that Macdonald would talk about Aus-
tralia’s place in the Empire and its duty
to stand by the mother country ; but, try
“KISSING the servant, indeed! What
next ?”
“What Would you suggest, my dear ?”
as I would, I couldn’t keep Macdonald
to the subject, and returned to report my
comparative failure. “All the time,” 1
told Cunningham, “he would switch on
to Protection and Freetrade, and said
that the only thing to make Australia
great was duties high enough to keep
out imports altogether.” Cunningham,
faithful to the policy of his paper, stood
aghast. “Why,” he cried, “the man must
be an ass!”
* * * *
“Findy”: Scene, Lake Leake, Tas-
mania ; hero (or villain) of the piece,
Blank, a former Digger and (when oppor-
tunity presented itself) a rollicking blade
in Cairo and Amiens, now a keen trout
fisherman. The story, as related by an
eye-witness:
The other day he had got his seat wet
while fishing, and sat with his trousers
down and his shirt hanging over the boat’s
side drying in the sun and wind. Sud-
denly he hooked a trout, and rose, one
hand grabbing his rod and the other hold-
ing his pants up. The fish was a fighter,
and took a lot of handling. Two ultra-
English tourist ladies were sharing the lake
with the fisherman, and got their boatman
to row close to watch the sport. The angler
was annoyed, especially when he had to
choose between the alternative of letting
go his pants or the fish, the capture of the
latter having become a two-handed job.
“Blast all women,” he yelled, and let his
pants go.
Two middle-aged spinsters will have yet
another tale of Australian lack of
chivalry to retail at the vicar’s tea-party
in Little-Slocombe-in-the-Slush.
“Paying Teller”: Who says women
have no head for business? A dear old
soul opened an account in our marble
hall a fortnight ago. The first personal
cheque she brought in was all right. The
second wasn’t signed. I pointed this out
to her. “What’s the use of signing it?”
she asked. “The very first thing you
did to my last cheque was to strike out
my signature!”
% # Jfc Jjt
“Becks”: Reports that members of
the Chinese crew of the Vincas have
identified hatch-covers washed ashore at
Lake Tyers as belonging to the missing
Paringa leave me unimpressed. A
vessel’s hatch-covers may possess indi-
viduality to seamen who have been
chucking them on and off for years, but
the Chinks must have very highly-
developed powers of observation to be
able to swear to them after, at the most,
two handlings—once at Port Adelaide
and (possibly) once at Western Port.
* * * *
“Inkosi”: John Dunn, an Irishman
who became a Zulu chief and was at one
time leading adviser of Cetewayo—who
didn’t take heed of Dunn’s warnings not
to bump the British Government —has
set Natal a problem. He had fallen in
with the custom of his adopted country
by marrying rather extensively, and he
left 83 children. There are now so many
claimants of assorted colors to his lands
—which by Zulu custom must be divided
among the heirs —that picking the right
peas is a whole-time job for the special
commission appointed to see into matters.
The original settlement gave 100 acres
to each descendant living in the Native
Reserve, those outside —and there were
many—having to take what they had
got from the old man before his death.
This has roused the outsiders to fury,
and they are now piling into the Reserve,
demanding a cut of what happens to be
there.
* * * *
“Nip”: “Kellick” himself slips up
badly in his par. (B. 8/1 /’36) on Vice-
Admiral Evans. There were two men
in Scott’s expedition by the name of
Evans: Lieutenant (now Vice-Admiral)
Evans and Seaman Evans. Both were in
Scott’s Polar party till it reached the
Beardmore Glacier. From there Scott
decided to go on to the Pole with Wil-
son, Oates, Bowers and Seaman Evans,
sending Lieutenant Evans, Clissold and
Day back to the base camp. On this
return journey Lieut. Evans was attacked
by scurvy and snow blindness, and only
the self-sacrificing efforts of his two com-
panions enabled him to be brought to
safety. Every man of Scott’s Polar party
perished. Seaman Evans was the first
to go, dying from the effects of a bad
fall.
* * * *
“El V.”: I have often wondered
exactly what was wrong with London.
The furtively repressed air with which
it's inhabitants go about, the meekness of
its cabmen, the obsequiousness of the
Cockney when his barrow gets squeezed
between buses, the complete lack of
pageantry as evidenced in that drab cere-
mony the Changing of the Guard, the
cobwebbed modesty which prevails in
the Palace of Westminster—all forcibly
strike the self-reliant visitor from Oodna-
datta or Guatemala. But it has remained
for the “S. M. Herald” to crystallise the
atmosphere. London, says “Granny’s”
discerning correspondent, “has an in-
feriority complex.” It is in moments like
these that I wish I had been born in
Schenectady (N.Y.), so that I could utter
my “Oh, yeah?” with an appropriate
accent.
* * ifc
“M. Turlutu”: Have had a demonstra-
tion of how some apparently inexplic-
able surf-drownings occur. A powerful
swimmer, 'waiting in the outer breakers
for a shoot, suddenly heaved himself
partly out of the water and sank like a
stone. Luckily the surfboat was near,
and he was ashore in a few minutes, in-
sensible and well waterlogged. During
resuscitation, one noticed some of the
blue threads of a Portuguese man-o’-war
about his waist and sides. Later, he ex-
plained that he had suddenly felt a belt
of pain round his waist, like a combina-
tion of electric shock and boiling water.
The agony made him gasp involuntarily ;
after that he remembered nothing. The
obvious explanation was that the gasp
had forced out the tidal air from his
lungs ; with the resulting loss of floating
power his muscular body had sunk, and
the involuntary inhalation which fol-
lowed had taken place under water, fill-
ing up his lungs. Bluebottle threads
have been measured to nearly 50 feet, all
lined with poison sacs and stings.
* * * *
“Mr. Chucks”: Some of the English
papers have been chronicling the 100th
anniversary of the death of
Mrs. Louisa Wafer, who was
instrumental in having 26,000
seamen trapped by press gangs
for the Royal Navy and re-
ceived the thanks of a Parlia-
mentary committee for her
patriotic exertions —as well as
so much per head for her
catches. Mrs. W. kept a pub,
"The Hard,” at Portsmouth,
near the dockyard.
She posed as pro-
tector of the hunted
men she sold, and
when the press broke
into her establish-
ment she and the
bevy of ladies she
maintained always
made a great pre-
tence of impeding
the invaders.
Marryat has given a
picture of “The
Hard” in Peter
Simple. Peter, a just-
joined snotty, is sent
with a press to the
place. As they enter,
the women set up a
fearful yelling and
throw their arms
about their particu-
lar fancy man to
protect (?) him.
Mrs. Wafer, an enor-
mously fat' woman,
leads the charge by
gathering tiny Peter to her enormous
bosom. “Come and kiss me, my little
sucking admiral,” she cries in a phrase
that has become historic.
* * * *
“Maltworm”: “Oriel,” of the Mel-
bourne “Argus,” propounds a theory that
beer has suffered not so much from its
homely ingredients as from it's unroman-
tic name. “It has often figured in
humorous verse, but never in serious
poetry.” This may be so, but ale cer-
tainly has, and how many people could
tell you off-hand the difference between
ale and beer? John Still, Bishop of Bath
and Wells in Elizabethan days, was prob-
ably serious enough when he penned his
drinking song with the stimulating if
slightly indelicate chorus:
Let back and side go bare, go bare,
Both foot and hand go cold;
But, belly, God, send thee good ale enough,
Whether it be new or old.
Even the strictly proper Tennyson, though
port doubtless appealed to him more,
has left a few staves in favor of the nut-
brown beverage. Nobody will suggest
that his “Northern Farmer” wasn t
serious enough when he demanded:
Give me my ale, I tell ’ee, and if I mun die
I mun die.
Then consider the hard-riding and obsti-
nate heir who made the pace a cracker:
Drunk with the quality’s wine and drunk with
the farmer’s ale, , ~
Mad with the lasses an’ all, and he woman i
cut off the tail.
One would say that he made drinking a
pretty serious business. Still, it is un _
deniable that ale fits better into ripphng
numbers than beer does.
FRONT-PAGE FIGURES.
“With his magnificent stock of rods, lines, gaffs
and tackle, valued at ,£4OOO, and a staff which
includes cooks and waitresses, Zane Grey is getting
ready to fish.”
The legions of Musso. are sweeping amain,
With tanks and with bombs, on their Ethiop
foes,
The League of the Nations still seeking in vain
Specifics for bringing the scrap to a close.
Bold Roosevelt’s reign looks like ending in
grief
Since Judges deny the decisions he’d wish;
And, somewhere this side of the Barrier Reef,
Illustrious Zane is preparing to fish.
Hot copy was seldom so plenty before;
The Japs are suspected of Anglophobe views;
The papers incessantly rumble and roar
Revilements at Hitler for baiting the Jews;
Sensations arrive by each cable to hand
From Clapham or Cairo, from Naples or
Nish;
And, off Bermagui’s salubrious strand,
The amiable Zane is preparing to fish.
Our batsmen and bowlers are cutting a dash;
As fierce as the fire and as fleet as the wind,
The foremost are settling South Africa’s hash
While the colts and the have-beens are wal-
loping Ind.
Don Bradman, the peerless, is proving that he’s
As solid as ever to smack and to swish;
And, by the long wash of Victorian seas,
Redoubtable Zane is preparing to fish.
Of Labor no longer the pride and the joy,
Yet loath to relinquish high office’s sweets,
Old Ramsay MacDonald and Malcolm his boy
Are cannily seeking Conservative seats.
Ed. Herriot’s waiting, it’s hinted, in France
The wily Laval of his honors to dish;
And, as soon as the weather provides him a
chance,
Zane Grey will be out for outsizes in fish.
His hooks and his tackle, his gaffs and his
gear,
Would make most Waltonians gasp to
behold;
And it wouldn’t at all be surprising to hear
That the reels on his rods are of genuine
gold.
How the headlines will scream! How the
story will run
Like wildfire, with never a sceptic to “pish,”
When some tunny or xithias weighing a ton
Arrives to denote that the sport has begun
And Zane is no longer preparing to fish!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Dinnis”: His given names were
Michael Joseph, and he had just a few
weeks before arrived from the Ould Sod
(where he had a job behind a Dublin
ribbon-counter). A • small legacy had
sent him Australiawards, resolved to
make a fortune raising sheep. He dis-
covered that his capital wouldn’t run to
jumbucks, so he came down to thoughts
of apple-growing, then to poultry, and
finally to pigs. He liked the idea of the
pigs best of all. Met him on his way
with a cheque drawn to buy a piggery.
“But you don’t know anything about
pigs,” I objected. “But indade I do,”
says he. “Oi’ve given the matther’dape
study. Oi’ll buy me sows at the Royal
Agricultural Show —Tamworths they’ll
be. As to boars, Oi’m not decided.
Maybe Oi’ll take a run up be the Queens-
land bor-r-der an’ have a peep at thim
artesian wans.”
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: The most satisfying feed
of oysters I ever had was at the com-
mencement of the war when, for some
reason known only to the military
authorities, the Hawkesbury railway
bridge had to be guarded. A patriotic
lease-owner sent word that he would
supply enough bivalves for the officers’
teas if they cared to send down and
knock them off, so a fatigue party was
detailed to fill a kerosene-tin and return.
We returned several hours later, but with
the tin empty. The subsequent' row
hastened my early departure for the
front.
* * * *
“Mudir”: Recent cables from Egypt
have contained references to “notables,”
the word being printed without the capi-
tal letter, which it invariably carries in
the land of the Pharaohs. When an
Egyptian starts to climb the ladder he
discards the galabieh, cotton drawers and
sandals for a frock coat, trousers and the
other trappings of the uppah classes in
civilisation, including the white collar.
Should he continue to progress, he is
likely to acquire a little money and some
importance among his fellows. It is
then that he becomes a “Notable,” and
when he is thus referred to in the press
his cup of bliss is full to overflowing.
* * * *
“Tavete”: The news that Britain in-
tends to undertake some measure of for-
tification at Mombasa and other East
African ports recalls old times. Mom-
basa, now the port for Kenya, was
founded by the Portuguese when they
were rulers of the Indian seas and was
their base for the great African trade
they drove in gold, ivory and slaves.
They defended it strongly with the
huge, thick-walled stone forts of those
days, which still stand practically intact.
In the end these were unavailing ; after
more than one bloody repulse the Arabs
finally tore the city from the Europeans.
* JJC 5£ *
“Burglar’s Improver”: Them Chows is
a Yellow Peril, all right—me for a White
Australia every time! A bloke ain’t
safe with them about. Only last week
me boss was goin’ down to collect a new
set of safe tools, an’ ’e sees an old Chow
amblin’ along. So the boss ranges up,
an’ tells ’im ’ow ’e’s a Dee and wants
twenty quid off him for the Perlice
Picnic Fund, on account of ’im runnin’
a fan-tan joint. Old bloke sez, “All li,”
an’ the boss reckins ’e’s set fer the gonce.
Then the old Chink starts yabberin’ a
treat, an’ the boss sez cut it out, but
the Chink sez it’s just Chow poetry ’e’s
recitin’ ’cos ’e’s so glad to ’elp the Perlice
Picnic. So they goes along to get the
gonce, and just round the next corner
U P ’ops two Dees and lumbers the boss
fer impersonatin’ the perlice, and false
pretences, an’ ’Ughie knows wot else.
Wasn’t poetry at all—that Chow crook
was tellin’ another Chink in a shop they
passed to ring up the Johns. Oughter
deport the crook cows, I sez.
“Mother says shall we go and stay with her, or will she come and
stay with us?”
“Tell her No!”
“Oxmead”: “Walkabout’s” Scotch
lassie who creased her male employer’s
pants along the seams (B. 8/1 /’36) —
“same way as I iron my own” —was
logical enough, even if she was a bit
behind the times. It is the obvious way 1
to crease any bifurcated garments, and
up to late Victorian years it was the
only way. To Edward VII., when he
was still Prince of Wales, has always been
assigned the credit for discovering that
men’s trousers look far more elegant
when the bold line of the iron descends
midway between the seams. The U.K.
and the Empire soon followed his lead ;
personally, I’ve never thought it an im-
provement, because it makes small-
clothes (as our granddads used to call
them) much more difficult to fold neatly.
However, those were the times when
royalties set the fashion in men’s gar-
ments. They don’t nowadays.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Just prior to her depar-
ture homewards after laying the Tas-
manian telephone cable, the cable
steamer Faraday received orders from
London to go by way of the Cape and
there effect minor repairs to the Cape
Town-St. Helena cable. At 4 o’clock one
afternoon the skipper cabled London
acknowledging the orders, but stating that
he had no charts of the position of the
cable. Thirty minutes later he was
directed to carry on with arrangements
for leaving. Two hours later the charts
were delivered on board. They had been
picturegrammed from London.
* * * *
“Toby Crackit”: A new type of
desperado, and an uncommon one in
Australia, a youth of 18, secured a few
days of front-page publicity in the Syd-
ney dailies in the opening week of 1936
before, cornered in a cellar, he blew his
own brains out. He was known, it seems
—though probably only to the police and
his associates —as “the boy gunman of
Redfern.” Although his criminal career
began, according to the authorities,
before he entered his teens, it doesn’t
appear that he ever committed a really
heinous crime before his final one. He
had been convicted of petty larcencies
and minor burglaries and sent to
reformatories and suchlike places, but
he had never served a real “stretch.” On
New Year’s Eve he was one of a band
of hoodlums who had been trying to
“scale” a tram-conductor; pursued by
the police, he turned and put a bullet
through his foremost pursuer’s head.
After that he temporarily “became Pub-
lic Enemy No. 1” ; and a squad of 50
police and detectives combed the slums
until they hunted him down in his dingy
hiding-place. He had but two cartridges
left in his revolver, and, after a fruitless
shot at his would-be captors, he turned
the last on himself. He left a note stat-
ing that there was nothing before him
but a life of crime, and that he had fully
determined to die before being taken.
And all this at 18! Perhaps it isn’t
much of a testimony to the efficacy of
Children’s Courts and cor-
rective institutions for law-
breakers of tender years.
“Verri”: A retired Sydney surveyor
gives his snore story (B. 8/1 / ’36). He
likewise found himself quartered with a
room-mate who made sleep for others
impossible by his outrageous nasal per-
formances. The surveyor related his
trouble to the local doctor. “You can
soon stop that,” said the medico. “Every
time he begins to snore you whistle.
He’ll stop immediately.” The surveyor,
slightly sceptical, tried the remedy, and
found it efficacious up to a point. The
trouble was that as soon as he ceased
whistling the snoring recommenced. Dis-
tracted by loss of sleep he changed to a
boarding-house farther down the street,
only to see across the dining table the
man he had fled to avoid. Discreet in-
quiries revealed that the snorer had also
changed his quarters, telling the new
proprietor that he was forced out of the
other place “by a bloke who sat up all
night whistling.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. has duly celebrated,
at Glenelg, its last birthday before the
centenary. Premier Butler made humorous
play with “99” in its medical and its
cricket sense. Though naturally there is
nobody left who was present at the
landing of Governor Hindmarsh on
28/12/1836, a host of really veteran
pioneers attended to lunch and sign the
roll. An odd complaint is occasionally
heard, however, that some of them,
actually a mere 90 or so, are adding a
few years to their actual ages for the
sake of extra glory. As the birth regis-
tration is often in some remote English
office, the harmless fraud would not be
difficult. But, of course, now that the
eighteen-forties count as venerable, the
native-born are growing in numbers and
importance all the time.
* * * o
“Mug Pirate”: I wore a tin-hat years
before the war made the things popular.
On my way to school, a white-backed
magpie chipped off a piece of my scalp,
and I retreated home, bawling. But soon
I sallied forth jauntily, the subject of
maternal precautions, a colander on my
head. That old strainer stood me in good
stead till one dismal morning I forgot to
remove it after passing the danger zone.
I would sooner have faced a thousand
peevish magpies than the yells of derision
my appearance evoked. After that my
makeshift helmet became a trophy of the
school bully.
:H * * *
“Spare Corp.”: Many dogs that had
come into the possession of Diggers dur-
ing the war years were smuggled back
to Australia. And this notwithstanding
the rule on transports that all potential
rabies-carriers should be pitched over-
board before Australia was sighted. On
my own transport a little black-and-tan
bitch brought aboard by some Light'
Horsemen at Suez was the pet of the
boat. The death sentence was post-
poned until the last moment; then the
guardians of Floss pleaded successfully
for permission to put' her in a bag with
weights, so that the end would come
quickly. An officer supervised the opera-
tion, and even felt the bag supposedly
containing the doomed animal before it
was jettisoned. Yet Floss and her four
puppies actually went ashore with some
of the Diggers who disembarked at Fre-
mantle. The shuffling of those two bags
was an expert job ; the dummy, which
was dexterously exchanged for the bag
which held Floss, contained merely a
leg of mutton. No one grudged some
shark that feed.
"I thought you said you Were a handy man?
“So I am, missus. Just live round te corner."
THE SINE QUA NON.
“Gentleman SO, own home, car, like meet lady,
stout build .’’—“Age” view mat. ad.
His mating call rings out as crisp and clearly
As some lone bird’s borne on the spring-
time breeze.
He’s fifty, true, but that s a detail merely,
A trifling handicap in days like these.
And, anyhow, he isn’t hard to please.
There ’should be lots of ladies roundabout
To meet the case and fill the bill with ease;
His one requirement is that she be stout.
He seeks no better-half who’s built severely
On beauty-parlor plans and recipes;
No dame or damsel dieting austerely
With his idea of comeliness agrees;
But half his home (and car) he guarantees
To some unknown whose contours leave no
doubt
There’s plenty of anatomy to squeeze—
He stipulates his consort must be stout.
She may be half his age, or more, or nearly
The same. It matters nothing long as she’s
Constructed generously, fairly, sheerly
On lines of broad-beamed fishing-boats one
sees
Breasting the waves or resting at the quays.
And who is there his taste to fault or flout?
De gustibus —you know the ancient wheeze.
It’s indispensable she must be stout.
She may be maid or widow, grave or cheerly,
With what they term s.a., or clean without.
What odds? To make her his and love her
dearly
He only needs to be assured she’s stout!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
111
A
20/„rir6
10/»r9 d
l9ft»
SADFSD
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
GENERfIT
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
SDF
SDF
mi
m
m
POLITICAL POINTS
“Militant-minority” mob-orators don’t
stick at trifles when they are putting a
case for one of their crazy strikes or for
returning to principles resembling those
of the late King Ludd. Orr, the coal-
miners’ secretary, in a speech broad-
cast from the Sydney Labor station and
reported by the “Labor Daily,” bel-
lowed that “N.S.W. coal production for
1934 exceeded the 1929 production by
250,000 tons.” Yes ; but for nearly 10
months of 1929 the northern collieries —
“numbering about 30 with 10,000 em-
ployees,” the Commonwealth Statistician
says—were closed. Orr must take people
for mugs if he thought they had for-
gotten that.
It now seems that N.S.W. Attorney-
General Manning will reach London
months before James v. the Common-
wealth comes on, and that Forgan Smith
will arrive months before the inaugura-
tion of his sugar conference, which Page
is also to attend. In neither case has a
date been fixed. Still, there are lots of
ways of fleeting the time pleasantly in
London, and doing it on the nod may
enhance the pleasure.
After all, Patrick J. Lynch, president
of the Senate, did not get (or take) a New
Year decoration, but another Patrick J.
Lynch, president of the Blinded Soldiers,
did. The preliminary announcement that
the name of the Senate’s Patrick was on
the list suggests that some unauthorised
person got a hasty glimpse of it or that
some authorised person read the thing
superficially and blabbed.
Bradman is not only a great cricketer
but a good Australian. Answering objec-
tions to his changing his place of resi-
dence and his team, he said at Newcastle
that it was immaterial to him which State
he played for:
Australians should have at heart the
broad interests of Australia, not the inter-
ests of any one State.
Ogilvie, Dunstan, Butler, Collier, Stevens
and Forgan Smith, please copy!
Bob Semple, the Maoriland Labor
Minister, is abolishing wheelbarrows
from the public works he is going to
finance somehow:
“The use of wheelbarrows,” Mr. Semple
says, “is an antiquated and stupid method
of shifting earth in bulk. We will pro-
vide modern machinery instead.”
Why, this is that hateful thing “mechani-
sation!” Nothing remains but for Orr
and Nelson and Bondy Hoare to speed
across the Tasman and organise a strike
against the “Fascist” Government.
Fortune is smiling on S. A. (“Curly”)
Lloyd, M.L.A. for Concord (N.S.W.X
When the Stevens-Spooner Government
handed over the Sydney electricity busi-
ness to a County Council, he was named
chairman at £5OO p.a. Now, with two of
the County Councillors (there are five)
objecting, his “allowance for out-of-
pocket expenses” has been increased to
£750 p.a. It amounts to holding an office
of profit under the Crown, but this salu-
tary old provision is being left out of
enactments setting up boards, commit-
tees and councils all over the place.
McCall, the Federal member for
Martin (N.S.W.), is an alderman of Syd-
ney. S. A. Lloyd is not only M.L.A. for
Concord (at £670 p.a.) and chairman of
the County Council (at £750 p.a.), but
was Mayor of Enfield also till he re-
signed at the end of the year. Very inter-
esting in view of the fact that Australia
is distributing quite £150,000 p.a. in
salaries among city politicians, swallow-
ing the story that theirs is a full-time job
deserving all-round-the-year pay.
Great Dailies may deny that there is
only one newspaper cable service, but
they all came out with the same “report”
of President Roosevelt’s address to his
last Congress, important not only to
Americans, but (because of the oil-boy-
cott business) to the world. The “report”
was a positive disgrace—merely a few
scrappy sentences, of which the reader
at this end could make neither head nor
tail. Ten times as much space was given
to British newspaper comments on
portions of the speech withheld from
Australians. Unattractive as the idea
of a Government news service is, wire-
less reporting of speeches like the Presi-
dent’s will become essential if the news-
papers fail in their duty.
Subiaco was one of the suburban seats
wrested from the Nats, at the Westralian
Assembly elections three years ago, and
as J. D. Moloney’s majority was a mere
331, after he had been 849 behind two
opponents on the first count, it may be
regained. Three Nats, are out against
COALMINER: “None o’ y’r Leap Year proposals for me!”
Moloney ; one is Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, who
went close to beating Curtin, now Fed-
eral Labor-leader, for Fremantle in 1934.
It was the neighboring constituency of
West Perth that elected Australia’s first
woman politician, the late Mrs. Cowan.
Almost alone among Miners’ Federa-
tion branches Wonthaggi (Vic.) voted
for a coalminers’ strike “to help the sea-
men.” The Dunstan Government employs
the Wonthaggi miners and gives them
the “full results of their industry” and a
lot more. A month or two ago it handed
them £BOOO of borrowed money as
compensation for something or other
—possibly for going on strike for five
months. Wonthaggi spends about a fourth
of its time striking. Presumably the
recipients of the £BOOO reckoned it
would keep another stoppage going for a
month or two.
Collier, the Westralian Premier, figured
recently in an unusual role. A “Sunday
Times” man asked him for a Perth Cup
tip, and the Labor Premier recommended
his subjects to back “Cueesun, a good
Australian horse.” Cueesun ran no-
where, like Seceshun, the bad Australian
horse that Collier backed last year.
The loan conversions directed by
Bruce amount to just on £182,000,000,
and “wifi mean a saving in the annua 1
interest bill of £3,461,000 Australian,” a
U.A.P. paper says. Some of the saving
has already gone west, and the rest will
vanish unless the borrowing craze is
checked.
An American major-general has re-
ceived instructions from the heads of the
new Philippine Government to organise
an “efficient army and navy” for their
commonwealth —they call it that. One
of the heads is Senor Quezon, “a Spanish
half-caste” ; another is Senor Osmena, “a
Chinese half-caste.” Each is a lawyer,
aged 57, and in the past they were bitter
enemies, but they have “united, for
expediency’s sake,” as President Quezon
and Vice-President Osmena. Complete
independence is to be achieved within
10 years. Dependence on lapan will
begin immediately after, if not sooner.
Kogarah (N.S.W.) Council reports that
there were only eight cases of typhoid
in Kogarah last year ; the population is
about 32,000. Kogarah is one of the
Illawarra suburbs which the Water
Board, egged on by the Stevens Gov-
ernment, proposes to connect with the
sewerage system ; cost, £6,129,000 to
£8,438,000, according to the plan
adopted. Moverley, M.L.A., who is a
member of the Water Board, thought-
fully mentions that the sewage will be
“emptied into the ocean adjacent to some
of our finest surfing beaches.”
It is expected at Canberra that if the
Government remains in office long
enough and the money doesn’t give out,
all recently-defeated politicians will be
provided for. Blakeley was appointed
“an industrial officer to police awards” at
£9 a week. Riley was put on one of
the Pensions Boards. Now Bayley, who
used to represent Oxley, has been named
“secretary to the North Australian Geo-
physical Survey Party, with head-
quarters in Canberra.” The Survey Party
and the secretary will be separated by
a thousand miles or more, but little
things like that don’t matter when the
public pays.
Before long it will be hard to find a
Victorian who is not a member or an
employee of a board. At the beginning
of the year the Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment Board burst into existence, and its
first duty will be the naming of 12, per-
haps 14, “conciliation officers.” When
Cabinet has approved of the “concilia-
tion officers” it is to appoint a board “to
investigate the affairs of the Water Com-
mission,” also a “board to examine and
register opticians” and a “board to carry
out the provisions of the Wheat and
Wheat Products Act.” All this at one
meeting. The “Age,” which supports the
Government, mentions that “if there is
any time left after routine business has
been dealt with, Cabinet will consider the
transport policy.”
No Commonwealth Minister was at
the railway station when Isaac Isaacs
said farewell to Canberra, and no Com-
monwealth Minister was at Spencer-
street when the train bearing him reached
its destination in the native State where
he is to spend his declining years. Neither
was there any appearance of Common-
wealth members nor any representation
of the State Parliament in which Isaacs
was Attorney-General. Of course it is
holiday-time for Ministers and mem-
bers ; but it seems a shabby way to treat
the first Australian-born Governor-
General, retiring after 43 years of public
service. Had the departing functionary
been British-born, Ministers and mem-
bers would have contrived to be present.
Last week, Roosevelt, who will have to
go up for re-election in November, 1936,
“promised the nation a balanced Budget
for the year to lune 30, 1937” —well, an
almost balanced Budget.
No allowance will be made for unem-
ployed-relief funds, the requirements for
which cannot at present be estimated.
A few hours later the Supreme Court
knocked the promise endways by declar-
ing the Roosevelt agricultural programme
(AAA) unconstitutional. The pro-
gramme was based on crop-control
financed by means of “processing” taxes
on produce received into factories.
Unless the Government can get round
the judgment somehow, it will have to
refund $200,000,000 extorted illegally and
find another $600,000,000, to keep faith
with farmers who hold signed contracts.
The MacDonalds, who lost their seats
at the general election but were never-
theless kept in the Ministry, are finding
it difficult to obtain others. The death
of a Scottish Uni. member, a Conserva-
tive, seemed to make things easy for the
old man, but two candidates are out
against him. The son, who calls him-
self Nat. Labor, like his sire, blithely
proposed to accept the Ross and Crom-
arty seat vacated by Sir lan Macpher-
son, who won it in November as a Lib.
Nat. by 10,810 to 3284. The Conserva-
tives, of whom there are far more in Ross
and Cromarty than there are Lib. Nats.,
“turned down his candidature and de-
clined to invite him to address a meet-
ing.” The Lib. Association accepted him,
and he is to stand as a “National can-
didate.” His Labor opponent is Hector
McNeil, who reduced Agricultural Min-
ister Elliot’s 1931 majority of 9066 to
149.
Australia, like Britain, is beginning to
get U.S.A. tourists seeking refuge from
the gangsters with which that country
is cursed. If only for business reasons,
it would be a good plan to strengthen
the police forces, which are under-
manned in every State, instead of
“economising” by withdrawing country
cops to the metropolis. This has been
carried to such lengths in N. S Wales
that Young has had to protest against
the withdrawal of a police inspector,
saying it has had a police inspector since
the days of Lambing Flat.


AustroJiA.
p, . 15. 193fe.
lteArdot\as. f . , a . .
, s .■ l l6 advise tv\AT l
Kava Just dal toad jast bail
A-j-esv iackes oitfsidc your leg s&mjD.
C .* t - LOl ' aS ' Feb 20. ■
De&v' otrvuK. t #
1 have. blecxsvYC m. adv\sit\g mcu
l kir /ouv •jiirast’ cleUWvy s\vc .
Dear :
Australia, March. 27. l9Sb.
In Kitting "that sty. you overlooked
the fact 'that £bbii\sot\ was field
on "the leg boundary. H© caught
you on me pickets.
DcdrSmilK. , , d ; , *** 7- ">*
Vours of 27 March., 15 hand.
Umpire Hvis end declares spectator, rvot Ebbinson, y
cauokt ball. Will continue itvrvlnos
* toes
' Latest
Test match
Mew's .
ANOTHER, BALL BOWLED , VV
Decnr^OriCS.
Australia. J<*r\ 16>. 104-1 •
My last ball was filched on your
middle stump, Cntics it was
unplayable. Smilt\\
Dear
Lords. Mareal. IQA4*
Heavy rant madia vvickai” unplayable
before receipt of- your letter In iKe
circumstances your last ball must" be
ignored. Rories.
Australia. Ajaril'H, 104!,
D vox- §OIK2S.
No rcun here -jor three morfths,
wickxzt p&\r-fec\ . W/e clairn-jor-jeiT,
Srnittv,
THE MATCH OF THE CENTURY.
An international draughts tournament played by correspondence has just commenced. It will last six years. We suggest the idea might be
extended to other games.


o* V Q *
:*S&
So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
ADEL, AIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Etd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.:
Machinery, Ltd.
Mac Ewan’s
Or from the Manufacturers.
• MADE' IN QUEEAISLA/Vo’ BY s*
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•■VALLEY • BRISBANE ■•
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LiTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 3/6/’ 34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Two wonderful days on the
sheltered St. Lawrence Seaway
on your way to Europe.
Giant “ Empress ” or “ Duch-
ess ” Steamers offer new thrills
in shipboard life.
Write for details and literature.
Anv Tourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN I* Veil’ll.
Zll George Street, Sydney.
(jbcljjfc
PERSONAL ITEMS
Langdon Bonython is one of the two
knighted patriarchs of the Adelaide press,
but his colleague William Sowden
is only 77—Bonython’s junior by a
decade. The old gentleman made the
“Advertiser” a great paper, and as presi-
dent of a host of councils and associa-
tions his will steered most of them to
success. He was one of the first S.A.
Commonwealth Ms.P., and has made a
hobby of Adelaide University, to which
he gave £20,000 to found a law school and
A newspaper patriarch.
£45,000 to build a great hall, apart from
lavish gifts to the School of Mines and
other departments. Lastly, he has
founded a dynasty. His son, Lavington,
who is 61 this year, twice Mayor of
Adelaide, and three times Lord Mayor,
and president of the S.A. Chamber of
Commerce, lives in a whirl of public
chairmanships, and there are three of
his sons to carry on the name —the.
youngest is settling down on the land at
Mt. Barker.
The Order of Court Criers owes its
thanks to Melbourne’s Greek Archiman-
drite, who had a birthday a few days
ago, for keeping out of Court. Orderlies
have a special nightmare, in which they
are suddenly ordered to shout three
times “Call the Very Reverend Theo-
pylactos Papathanassopoulos! ” He must
surely hold the belt for long names
south of India.
Queensland State Opposition has bad
luck with its Welsh blood —only a few
months ago it lost Tom Roberts in a
tragic accident, and now Owen Daniel,
M.L.A. for Keppel, is dead at 60. He
began life on the bottom rung of the
ladder, built up a sound business in
Central Queensland, became an aider-
man of Rockhampton and chairman of
the Livingstone Shire Council and
entered the House in 1929. He was a
keen worker for charity, and a Masonic
P.M.
The last of the John Robertson clan
passed with the death of Baroness de
Miklouho-Maclay, fifth daughter of the
Old John who stands so monumentally
in N.S.W. history. The Baron, her second
matrimonial venture, was a Russian
scientist who established a zoological
station at Watson’s Bay, adjacent to the
old Robertson home, whilst he con-
ducted scientific investigations in the
Pacific islands. He died within a few
years of the marriage ; his widow lived
to a ripe old age.
“J.”: Death removed Harry Holmes
(77) in Rockhampton last week. He was
a noted figure in the gold-escort days of
Mt. Morgan ; during 12 years he trans-
ported 3,343,3240 z. to Rockhampton.
The Dean Hole medal—the Nobel
Prize, so to speak, of the rose world —
has been handed by the English National
Rose Society to Alister Clark, of Glenara
(Vic.). It is not an easy prize to win—
often it is not awarded because the
society can find nobody worthy of it;
but there is no question about the merit
of this year’s winner. Melbourne glows
in season with his Sunny South seedling,
and he is the father of Black Boy, Gwen
Nash, Golden Vision, Borderer and
Cherub —the last of which won an award
of the Portland Rose Society (U.S.A.).
Latterly Clark has become a breeder of
daffodils.
The new Bishop of Wellington (M.L.)
will be Archdeacon H. St. Barbe Hol-
land, who comes of a well-known Eng-
lish church family and is a descendant
of that Lord Barrington who was ex-
pelled from the Commons a couple of
hundred years ago for taking part in
the Harborough lottery. He held livings
in Newcastle-on-Tyne, and was Sub-
Dean and Rural Dean of Coventry
before becoming Archdeacon of Warwick
(England). Many Australians know his
brother, the doctor in charge of the mis-
sion hospital at Quetta for 35 years,
who was C.M.O. in Baluchistan during
the war.
Another injustice to Italy. The gentle-
man who acted as interpreter during the
hearing of a murder charge against an
Italian at Melbourne was named
O’Cassidy! When the Russian Export
Company was functioning in Sydney a
few years back, Soviet representative
Radogin had, as his second-in-command
and interpreter, a charming young Rus-
sian girl who rejoiced in the name of
O’Donovan.
If W. R. Car-
penter, newest of
knights, is not
cosmopolitan, he
ought to be. His
father called
New Haven,
Connecticut,
home. W.R. was
himself born in
Singapore, and
educated in
Forest Lodge
State school, Syd-
ney. He began
business in Thurs-
day Island,
moved to Fiji,
knows the Pacific
like the palm of
his hand and
founded the great
Australian firm of
which he is head
in the first war
year. He is well
endowed with the
gift of humor,
and is as ready
to give money
away as to make
it. Three years
ago he was be-
CARPENTER, of the Pacific.
hind the short-lived “Sunday Observer,”
and when it failed he took his loss like
a man.
“Bossie” Jones, of Carrum (Vi?.), is a
youth who has not been able to get a
iob since he left school a few years ago.
But Fate has provided him with an
honorary occupation —that of hauling
drowning people out of the sea. Already
this season “Bossie” has restored five
people to their friends and their rela-
tions —people who, but for his courage
and his swimming skill, would have
found watery graves. Having become a
lifesaving addict, “Bossie” has decided
to join the local L.S. club.
T. W. Glasgow has joined the National
Bank’s Queensland board. Still only 60,
he was a major-general at 41, and after
the war served as a Senator for 13 years.
For a couple of years he was Minister
for Home and Territories and for
Defence. Politics had no charm for him
—he deeply disliked the “expediency” of
parties.
J. G. Bayley, for many years M.P.
for Oxley, and a Queensland Assembly-
man in the last Parliament, has been
chosen as secretary of the Common-
wealth’s geophysical survey. Bayley is a
long, genial, versatile person with a
Leland Stanford (U.S.A.) degree.
“El V.” on an appointment:
The newspapers have played up the modera-
tion of Viscount Makoto Saito, appointed
Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal and the
Mikado’s most intimate adviser at a moment
when Japan is threatening to expand its
navy to the same level as those of Britain
and U.S.A. As a naval expansionist, the
Viscount—he is 77 —is forgotten by the present
generation; but he was a pioneer among
Japanese-trained naval officers; he was Vice-
Minister for the Navy during the Russo-
Japanese War, and Minister during the period
1906-13, in which plans were begun to bring
the Japanese Navy to first-class European
standards. The programme under which the
present navy was built was of his making.
And he was Prime Minister in 1932-34, when
Japan planted her feet firmly in Manchukuo.
A link with early Melbourne is broken
with the death in London of Butler Cole
Aspinall, K.C., son of the Aspinall who
was the leader of the Vic. Bar in the
’seventies and about whom raged more
legal stories than would fill a book.
Probably the best of these concerned a
brush with one of the Judges. “Mr.
Aspinall,” said his Honor severely, “are
you trying to show your contempt for
this Court?” “No, sir,” replied Aspinall,
with a show of great humility. “I was
trying to conceal it.” Aspinall, senior,
entered politics, and was a member of
a couple of Victorian Ministries.
When he lands from the Otranto in a
few weeks’ time a tight-and-trim little
naval officer with an ascetic face and a
slightly sardonic
smile is unlikely
to wake the con-
sciousness in on-
lookers that they
are gazing at a
man who prob-
ably knows more
of the inside his-
tory of the war
than any other
alive. Admiral
W. Reginald Hall
had charge of the
Admiralty Naval
Intelligence De-
partment and the
mysterious Room
40 during the
whole war. Then
he slipped into a
seat in the Com-
mons, which he
held till 1929,
with an interval
of a year, during
which he man-
aged the affairs
of the Unionist
party. He retired
from the Navy in
1922.
The family of Lord Stradbroke, who
has had a serious accident, has a long
connection with Australia. An early
relative, Admiral Rous, came to Sydney
in command of H.M.S. Rainbow and
immediately made himself the chief
patron of the Turf, which will always
remember him as the importer of Emi-
grant. In his last year here, 1829, he
discovered the Richmond and Clarence
Rivers, and his name survives at Rous
Hill in the old hunting country on the
way to Windsor, where there are still
relatives. Lord Stradbroke is a tall, up-
Lord BRIDPORT, a British visitor.
right Suffolk man with a moustache
which belongs to the ’eighties and an
entirely democratic manner which served
him particularly in good stead when he
motored from Oodnadatta to Katherine
in 1924 —no mean feat in those days.
Stradbroke Island (Q.) records the title
here.
Melbourne’s former Lord Mayor
McEacharn, whose son has been distin-
guishing himself by giving presents to
Milan Fascists, had a shrewd way of
dealing with earbiters who singled him
out as an easy mark by reason of his
wealth and position. When an indigent
acquaintance whose habits he knew ap-
proached him for a loan of half a crown,
McEacharn would calmly hand him half
a sovereign. “That’s overgenerous of
you,” protested a friend one day. Mc-
Eacharn smiled. “Not a bit of it,” he
replied. “I’m Scotch and know how to
save money. If I gave him half a crown
he’d be at me again next week. Now
he’ll dodge me every time he sees me
in the street.”
“Avon” draws on his memory:
Paddy Webb, Minister of Mines in Maori-
land’s Labor Cabinet, is the only member of
its Parliament who ever lost his seat by reason
of a sentence of imprisonment. It happened
in 1918. Webb, having held the Grey seat
for four years, resigned in November, 1917,
and resubmitted himself as an anti-conscrip-
tionist. He was re-elected unopposed, and,
strengthened by his constituents’ approval, re-
fused military service when called up. Also,
he made speeches which the police considered
were seditious. Paddy was popular in Par-
liamentary circles, and Findlay, K.C., a former
Attorney-General, journeyed from Wellington
to Christchurch to defend him on the sedition
charge. Evidence was given by a constable
from shorthand notes. Having elicited in
cross-examination that the cop had studied
Isaac Pitman’s little handbooks for only three
months, Findlay called the reporters in court
into the witness-box, one after another, to
pass judgment on the constable’s pothooks and
crosses. They were a weird jumble (I know,
because I was one of the reporters), and the
magistrate, himself a Pitmanite, confessed he
couldn’t read ’em. But on general principles
he sent Paddy to gaol for 12 months, and
Grey had to find another member. After that
Webb dropped out of politics for a long
while. He was in Bob Semple’s Orongorongo
tunnelling party from 1921 to 1924, and lat-
terly has been agent in Christchurch for one
of the Westland collieries. He got back into
Parliament in November.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO H-RH THE
PRINCE OF WALES
I
So
Noah took two of
everything into the
ark—but only one sort
of Gin - Gordon's
SADFSDF
SIR SEYMOUR HICKS
Gordon's Gin
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
NO
COLOURING MATTER
TANQUERAY GORDON & COMPANY LTD., DISTILLERS,
LONDON
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
mm
m
m
if
MM
mm
rw
m
$
*
*SSSSSS£K^
ft
A-'
2^
'll
V /
>\
m
C-)
PS
i
hJ
9
1234 Q feet up/
' MOUNT COOK
ONLY 3 days in a luxurious liner and
you will be in NEW ZEALAND—the
land of permanently snowy peaks and
rushing rivers, geysers and boiling pools,
luxurious forests and lovely lakes, under-
ground grottoes and gleaming glaciers,
trout fishing, deer stalking and deep-sea
fishing. Rail and motor travel is con-
venient and comfortable —hotel service
of the best and at moderate tariffs. No
exchange.
The ideal place for YOUR holiday.
Book with the N.Z. Government Tourist
Bureau and save needless worry and ex-
pense—the utmost service is guaranteed.
For full particulars call or write—
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU
14 Martin Place (directly opposite G.P.0.),
Sydney .----- Tel.: B 7043
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Cent. 3110.
King House, 79 Queen Street - • Brisbane
And all Travel Agents.
1:1 v:#i im:\i
SDF
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
“Bushido”
Why the works of Stephen Leacock
sell at high prices when the daily news-
papers are accessible at a penny is one
of life’s mysteries. Some of these organs
could truthfully put up the caption “Un-
conscious Humor in Every Line.” Take
a Sydney Sunday journal’s exposition of
the Japanese situation. Readers must
have gone pale with fear as they read
of the Tanaka plan for the conquest of
the world —a “plan” which in reality
consisted of the shadowy speculations of
a political philosopher as to the future
trend of world population. But the fears
of the knowledgeable must have gone
up in a shout of laughter when, after
learning that “steps toward world domi-
nation have already been taken,” they
read this: —
Japan’s secret is a queer code of morals
and conduct, known as “Bushido,” which
is intangible to Western minds. “Bushido,”
the Japanese forerunner of Fascism, is
marching through an area in Northern
China almost as great as China itself.
“Bushido,” alas! has been a ruling
philosophy in Japan for six hundred
years. It is a system of morality which
has no political significance except in its
relation to loyalties, personal and
national. Its basis is fidelity—faithful-
ness of man to his ideals, of a wife to
her husband, of followers to their lord,
of the people to their emperor. It lays
a strict emphasis on honor, integrity and
stoicism. It would be a good thing if
somebody were importer! to teach
“Bushido” to the yellower press. Hara-
kiri might then be demanded of editors
who smirched their sheets with unworthy
propaganda and sensationalism harmful
to the peace of the world. —J. Want
(N.S.W.).
“Plus Exchange”
Shipping companies trading between
Australia and Europe demand 25 p.c.
exchange on passenger fares and freight
charges. Admittedly a large percentage
of their costs is payable in sterling, but
wharf and pilotage dues are payable
in Australian currency; there has been
no increase in these, and they represent
at least half the port dues for the whole
voyage. Again, all Australian salaries
(about 20 p.c. of the total) are payable
in Australian pounds. Seventy per cent,
of the victualling is done in Australian
ports and paid for in £A.
I submit that the “p/w.v exchange”
charge should be 15 p.c. This would
more than provide a 25 p.c. cover on
the bills which have to be paid in
pounds English.— Galra (N.S.W.).
An Unhonored Pioneer
Nearly 100 years ago a young soldier
emigrated to S.A. and joined the
Mounted Police. Within 12 years he ha*d
become Commissioner. The overland
gold escort was one of the achievements
of his regime ; it was the means of bring-
ing 327,491 ounces from the Victorian
diggings to Adelaide without the loss of
a grain. At one time £30,000 worth
would have been lost in Deep Creek if
the Commissioner had not dived repeat-
edly into the icy floodwaters and brought
the bags to land ; he was that sort of
man. On another occasion, a sword
slung round his neck his only weapon,
he swam a mile to an island on the Coo-
rong to capture a couple of aborigines
suspected of murdering white settlers.
But the man was without tact, and was
given to acting impulsively ; and he had
an explosive temper. These faults even-
tually led to his being dismissed in a
somewhat underhand way. He wrote
the story of his life in two volumes, and
there is no finer record of the early days
of Australian colonisation. Students of
Australian history have found them in-
valuable.
That Police Commissioner was Alex-
ander Tolmer. Not a hill, lake, river or
gully in S.A. bears his name, though
there can be no doubt that he was the
first white man to see or tread many of
them.
There is a road running parallel with
the main Adelaide-Melbourne railway
line, at present bearing the unofficial title
of “the Duke’s Highway.” It is the
shortest route between these capitals, and
will be a main inter-State arterial road
one day. The old gold-escort track in-
tersects it at one point and follows it for
a short distance; Tolmer often rode
along this portion. If South Australia
were to rename this road “Tolmer High-
way” and erect a simple monument where
the escort track joins it, something would
be done to atone for the long-
standing neglect of an outstanding figure
in Australian history.—H. A. L. (S.A.).
Rome Showed the Way
It is obvious that we cannot rely on
the present population of Australia to
produce sufficient offspring to fill up our
empty spaces; equally obvious that we
cannot attract immigrants (and get them
to remain here) unless we are prepared
to make conditions more attractive for
them. What we want is a land popu-
lation, first of all. I suggest that the
best way of getting it is to formulate
land-settlement schemes which will radi-
ate around and about military settle-
ments, or as part of them.
In Rome the army was the nation,
but the officers in the Roman Army were
often small farmers, like the men they
commanded. The might of Rome may
have been won by the sword, but what-
ever the Romans won they secured by
the plough.
Could we not, in conjunction with the
British Government, formulate a scheme
for immigrants (and Australians also) in
combining the functions of farming and
defence? Every soldier would be a small
landholder, and settlements would be scat-
tered about the Commonwealth. If air
is the arm we are to concentrate on, let
these settlements be military airports.
If need be, a semi-military organisa-
tion could be recruited for land develop-
ment. Surely the unemployed, on partial
relief work, could be more profitably
occupied that way? Could we not estab-
lish naval bases, particularly in the
North, where portions of the fleet (an
enlarged fleet) would always be? When
the sailors were at liberty, they could
develop their own land grants —which
would be scattered about the naval base
(no land grants except to married rat-
ings).
After all, some of the most successful
pioneers in early Australian history were
ex-military and ex-naval men. Could we
not then join defence and immigration to-
gether as one problem and try to solve
it with one solution? —G. D. (N.S.W.).


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lur.ch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T, H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
H. Y. Douglass, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
, —Dividends—Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 170,131 81,877 60,000 28,254 372,129
1925.. 243,554 97,400 60,000 86,156 458,283
Loss on Grenfell-street plant, £321,737.. 136,546
1926.. 307,208 119,482 60,000 127,726 264,272
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 408,199
1928.. 320,200 155,857 60,000 104,403 512,602
. 1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
Written off plant, £99,398 .. .. 553,059
1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. .. 644,931
84 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,906 .. .. 716,822
Transferred to suspense account, 1
£40,0(30 ) 100,747 817,569
1932. . 355,747 172,500 42,500 J
Written off plant. £205,042 .. .. 612,527
To suspense account, £40,000 ) 119,917 732,444
1933.. 374,917 172,500 42,500 )
Written off plant, £22,731 .. .. 709,713
From suspense account, £41,737.. .. 751,450
10 p.c.
1934.. 355,469 172,500 50,000 132,969 884,419
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 . . 790,528
Premiums on repayment deben. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. .. 768,261
1935.. 334,083 172,500 56,250 105,333 873,594
*lneludes provision for debenture sinking fund.
For the nine years 1912-21 new ord.
capital brought with it approximately
£127,500 of share premiums. During
the last term £125,000 of this was capi-
talised, raising ord. capital to £625,000 ;
the div. was maintained at 10 p.c. Also,
£42,900 of 6 p.c. A debentures on the
Adelaide register was repaid ; the co.’s
bank deposits were turning in 3 p.c. or
less. The share and debenture debt is
made up as follows:
(—Capital Stock— >, , —Debenture Stock—^
Adelaide, London. Adelaide. London.
Pref. 6 p.c. £154,758 £95,242 5 p.c. £49,229
„ 5„ A 250,000
„ 8 „ B 249,950 50 5J „ C 18,200 911,674
„ 6i„ C 653,432 346,568 6 „ D 250,000
P. Ord. 8 p.c. 745,343 4,657
Ords. . . 616,125 8,875 —-
The lot totals £4,354,103, up £81,350
net. The co.’s total funds (capital, re-
serves and debentures combined) now
cost on the average a shade under 6 p.c.;
the business expanded rapidly during the
years of dear money.
In May last share- and debenture-
holders on the co.’s London register re-
ceived from the Federal taxgatherer an
assessment covering the five years to
June 30, 1934. The co. is registered in
England, and, the chairman says, “its
contracts with its stockholders are sub-
ject' to the jurisdiction of the English
Courts, which in similar circumstances
have refused to enforce claims for Aus-
tralian income tax. We are therefore
advised that the amount of these assess-
ments cannot be collected from stock-
holders on the London register who have
no other property in Australia.” Still,
there has recently been a steady migra-
tion of share capital from the London
to the Adelaide register.
Further cuts, ranging from 8.3 p.c. to
10 p.c., in the co.’s tariff charges became
effective at the beginning of 1936, mak-
ing total reductions in charges to con-
sumers over the last three years now
worth £126,000 p.a. The growth in con-
sumption (17 p.c. last year) has thus far
more than offset the effect of these re-
ductions. The spring in the year’s gross
earnings was £36,615: —-
1922. 1934. 1935.
Gross revenue .. .. £372,466 £787,729 £824,344
Operating exes. & taxes 215,924 355,309 407,329
Net revenue .. .. £156,542 £432,420 £417,015
Exes, were up £52,020, owing mainly to
taxation. After allowing for debenture
interest (£69,276) and reserve adjust-
ments, the net result was £105,333 more
than the pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the
ords. called for. But no specific allow-
ance was made for depreciation ; hence
£20,112 struck off to cover the cost of
plant scrapped has been charged direct
to reserves.
The year’s expenditure on fixed assets
amounted to £201,530, making their book
value £5,060,810 at the end of August.
More or less liquids totalled £460,043 ;
there was £141,696 coming to sundry
creditors.
The market prices all shares on the
basis of approximately a 4j p.c. return.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Towards
Net Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 18.225 11} p.c.=13,500 4,725 82,327
1926.. 11} ~,,13,547 9,948 92,275
Reserves capitalised, £24,500 .. 67,775
1927.. 36.354 124 p.c.=18,375 17,979 85,754
1928.. 15 ~,, 22,425 17,983103,737
1929.. 41.050 15 ~,, 22,425 18,625 122,362
Written off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 23,024 15 p.c.=22,425 599 108,961
Written ‘off investments, £5OOO .. 103,961
1931.. 16.180 10 p.c.=14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39.684 15 ~,, 22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32.490 15 ~,, 27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46.153 15 ~,, 27,000 19,153 140,924
1935. .31,425 15 ~,,30,000 1,425 148,349
Turnover improved, and the assets are
worth a lot more than their book value.
Too much notice, therefore, need not be
taken of the apparent drop of £14,728 in
last year’s profit. The contraction was
due to an unexplained addition of
£lO,OOO to reserves in ’34 and to an
unexplained reduction of £7500 during
the last term. The declared net result
was £2772 better at £38,925, or 19.4 p.c.
on capital. So the 15 p.c. div. remained
a comfortable matter, and there is
nothing in sight .to suggest that it is likely
to be interfered with. Only once in the
last eight years have shareholders re-
ceived less than 15 p.c. ; that was in ’3l,
when 10 p.c. was paid. Moreover, 15 p.c.
is worth a lot more to old holders;
bonus scrip accounts for more than half
the £200,000 of paid capital—the last gift,
one for ten, was made in November,
1934.
More than half the shareholders’ funds
(capital and visible reserves combined) is
invested outside the business in well-
selected shareholdings, including the Mel-
bourne subsidiary, which set up in 1923,
and in a number of now well-let Sydney
freeholds, bought when the market for
real-estate was at its lowest or there-
abouts. Two years ago these investments
provided “a handsome contribution to
manufacturing profits”; it is safe to
assume that the contribution has become
more handsome since.
As for the business itself —the co.
turns out cardboard boxes, cartons and
corrugated-fibre containers, etc. —the out-
look is one of continued expansion
Until 1918 the co.’s fight was largely
against prejudice; six years later' two
factories were operating in Sydney ; now
there are three, and three more are operat-
ing in Melbourne also. The present Aus-
tralian output of board, etc., is nearly
30,000 tons per annum ; consumption is
in the neighborhood of 35,000 tons, while
new uses are constantly being found for
the board and corrugated fibre, thanks
largely to the enterprise of J. Fielding
and Co.
To provide for further expansion of
the business, the co. bought an adjoin-
ing property in Buckingham-street, Syd-
ney, last year, and a new building is
now being erected thereon:
1919. 193'0. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £40,000 £149,500 £180,000'£200,000
Sundry
creditors .. 51,982 17,531 20,248 30,286
Freeholds .. 31,324 42,046 132,000 150,487
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 33,606 24,108 24,210
Stocks. . . . 42,416 26,434 20,335 24,270
Book debts, cash
and investments 19,778 185,119 181,980 187,168
The net growth in the book value of
freeholds was £18,487 ; stocks were up
£3935, and book debts, investments, etc.,
£5lBB. To meet the outlay £10,038 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Plant (up £lO2 net) has been
added to and obsolescence allowed for,
which means more than ordinary provi-
sion for wear and tear.
The market prices the pound shares,
visibly covered by 345. lOd. in net tan-
gibles, at 775. At that figure the return
is a shade undfer 4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
1925.. 38,342 9 p.c. = 25,607 12,735 81,696
1926.. 36,230 9 ~ „ 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927.. 44,950 10 ~ „ 33,492 11,458 102,384
1928.. 48,214 10 „ „ 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929.. 47,720 10 „ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931.. 35,383 7 „ „ 28,000 1 r
Contingency reserve, £3OOO ) 18o,ooj
(/'land Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 .. 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. = 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933. . 35,890 4 „ „ 27,042 )
Contingency reserve, £3OOO ) 0,048
Surplus on sale of property, £lO,OOO 137,827
From taxation provision, £10,000.. 147,827
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c. = 27,304 11,495 159,322
1935.. 48,615 4) „ „ 30,717 17,898 177,220
For many years after the crisis of the
’nineties the Brisbane Permanent limped
along, nursing the properties that had
fallen into its hands. Gradually it
developed strength, and for the seven
years to the close of accounts in 1930
shareholders averaged a shade under
10 p.c. Then slump and its concomitants
struck these building banks a stunning
blow. Still, this one has come through
without failing to pay a div., the average
for the last five years being 4.9 p.c.
Moreover, it added to its stature by ab-
sorbing the Queensland Deposit Bank
and later a large portion of the assets
of the suspended Federal. The Per-
manent’s capital thus grew from £400,000
in 1931 to £682,000 two years later, and
has remained steady since.
Owing to the reduction in the margin
of interest earnings and the burden
of taxation, there is not the profit in
the business there used to be. Last
year’s interest and other earnings
amounted to £126,403, down £2574. But
management charges (£22,728) were
£2129 lighter, interest paid on deposits,
etc. (£40,597), was down £4727, and
£5OOO less was reserved for taxation
(£15,000), making the total reduction in
payments and charges, £11,856. Allow-
ing for minor reserve adjustments, the
net result was £9816 better at 7.1 p.c. on
capital as against 5.6, 5.3, 5.4, 8.8 and
12.4 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was
raised from 4 p.c. to 4\ p.c., the final
being at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a., which
looks like being maintained —for a while,
at any rate.
At 21s. the fully-paid pound shares
return 4.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 255. 2d.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1922. 1931. 1934. 1935.
'Paid capital. . £212,245 £490,000 £682,600 £682,600
Deposits . . 515,854 901,842 1,477,940 1,541,940
Sundry creditors '7,354 9,093
Premises, etc. 15,500 26,500 41,903 52,260
Advances .. 578,315 1,092,017 1,741,841 1,755,147
Book debts . . 3,040 306
Public securities
and cash . . 202,642 354,407 578,822 634,846
The most encouraging feature there is
the growth of £13,306 in advances.
Liquids (up £56,024) were equal to 41
p.c. of the deposits (up £64,000) as
against 39 p.c. in 1931 and 44 p.c. in
1929. The growth of £10,357 in the
book value of premises, etc., was on
account of remodelling the old Federal
Co.’s Queen-street building, n w used as
this Permanent Co.’s headquarters. The
Adelaide-street property was sold for
£45,000 in June, 1934, the profit on the
deal being £17,000.
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
Net To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
& £ £ £
1926.. 22,920 7 p.c. = 13,300 9,620 7,000
Reserves
1927.. 23,643 7 „ „ 13,881 9,763 2,762
1928.. 15,434 7 „ ~ 14,164 1,270 4,032
1929.. 26,093 7 „ „ 15,475 10,618 14,650
Added goodwill, £15,350 ) , „„„
1930.. 2,432 Nil 2,432 )
Loss.
1931.. 718 Nil 1,014
Profit.
1932.. 7,116 2) p.c. = 5,200 1,916 2,930
Added goodwill, £650 .. .. 2,280
1933.. 12,571 3 p.c. = 6,120 6,451 8,731
1934.. 23,150 34 „ ~ 7,130 7 R
Bonuses to clients. £7233 ) B, ' s ' 17>51S
1935.. 23,862 4 p.c. = 8,148 j „„ RO ,
Bonuses to clients, £12,608 ) 3,106 20,624
This is one of a strong network of co-
operative selling organisations, here.and
in London, which have done good work
for the farmer by marketing his pro-
duce at low cost. Australian producers
now sell about 75 p.c. of their butter
output overseas. With the aid of the
tariff the balance is sold locally at a
fixed price of 140 s. per hundredweight,
thus ensuring a higher average return
to the dairyman than would otherwise be
possible.
During the last term the co. handled
less butter; but the London price of
Australian choicest rose from 755. a year
ago to 110 s. at the beginning of
November; the figure was back to 955.
last week-end. Partly because of the
rise and partly because of a larger
volume of sales and better prices in
other sections of the business —a new
grain department was set up during the
year—aggregate turnover increased by
£162,899:
, —Exes. p.c. of
Commis- Corn-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1927. .4,036,943 206,991 183,358 £3/19/1 88.5 „
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1929. .4,996,990 213,875 187,782 £3/15/2 87.8 „
1930. .4,825,978 198,339 195,907 £4/1/2 98.7 „
1931. .3,973,050 173,006 173,724 £4/7/- 100.1 „
1932.. 3.886.358.174,464 167,348 £4/6/- 95.9 „
1933. .3,801,385 171,194 158,623 £4/3/5 92.6 „
1934. .3,878,792 178,177 155,677 £4/0/3 87.3 „
1935. .4,041,691 182,636 158,774 £3/18/6 86.9 „
Despite a cut of one-half of one per
cent, in the charge for handling butter,
commission earnings, etc., were £4459
better. Exes, took £3097 of the increase,
leaving the net result at 11.7 p.c.
on capital as against 11.3, 6.1 and 4.3 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. Half a
point was added to the div., making it
4 p.c., and consignors, who are mostly
shareholders, received rebates of 15 p.c.
(up 5 p.c.) of the commission on local
butter sales and 10 p.c. of the charges
for handling other produce. Total re-
bates amounted to £12,608, which, to-
gether with the div., was equal to 10.1
p.c. on capital.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1927. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £198,811 £208,294 £203,722 £203,715
Overdraft .. 75,733 42,821 2,339
Other liabilities 258,261 152,984 239,692 220,864
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 68,366 60,387 55,546 62,014
Plant.. .. 33,180 29,680 23,846 30,515
Shares other cos. 26,970 26,543 26,690 26,690
S'tocks . . 68,506 49,885 56,459 72,345
Book debts . . 134,682 228,501 269,284 259,604
Cash .. .. 19,304 10,132 43,485 17,129
The additions of £6468 to freeholds, etc.,
and £6669 to plant were mainly on
account of the new grain department.
This expenditure on fixed assets is
further reflected in a contraction of
£13,661 in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£115,875). When the books closed
the amount coming to consignors was
equal to about a fortnight’s supplies.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook in the dairying districts is favor-
able, and prospects of a satisfactory
price for butter in London are encourag-
ing.
Concreters, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 283 Nil 459
Nominal
Reserves.*
1929.. 8,204 15 p.c. = 4246 3958 3,499
1930.. 13,292 15 „ „ 4249 9043 12,542
1931.. 5,726 10 „ „ 2833 2893 15,435
1932.. 5,050 10 „ „ 2833 2217 17,652
1933.. 5,429 10 ~ „ 2833 2596 20,248
1934.. 3,397 7}„ „ 2124 1273 21,521
Loss.
1935 . . 7,889 Nil 13,632
*Subject to patent rights, processes, etc. ( £20,008).
Where the chief asset consists of patent
rights, the investment is a risky one. This
little co. was formed late in 1927 to
operate a patent for turning out con-
crete pipes, etc., for local-government
bodies at low cost. For the rights it paid
away £20,008 of its £28,327 of paid capi-
tal. Still, for the seven years to the
close of accounts in 1934, it earned
enough to pay divs. aggregating 67.5 p.c.
an (average of 9.6 p.c. p.a.), and at the
same time accumulate £21,521 of re-
serves. The whole of the share capital
and £1513 besides were thus represented
by more or less solid assets.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, “the continued policy of
the Government in carrying out drain-
age work by day-labor, instead of under
contract, forced the co. to enter into
civil-engineering contracting in an
endeavor to maintain its turnover,” the
chairman says. Several of these con-
tracts were unprofitable, and a loss of
£7889 was recorded for the year.
Since the close of account's the co.’s
prospects are said to have brightened;
much depends upon whether the Gov-
ernment reintroduces the contract


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Piace,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
: Si!#
OS*
* ' * V
m
M.
BY D
.UNDERWEAR
'~H&oct -to- my6&fip-
ZMe. bN.dlMt:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
fOR
M*o!
use?
Rtf*' 1
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & ’ Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
system for drainage work, and upon the
extent to which competitors succeed in
getting their costs down.
Provided debtors’ balances are worth
the figure at which they appear, there
is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances:
1931. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £28,327 £28,327 £28,327 £28,327
Liabilities . . 8,441 5,464 7,322 12,653
Patent rights, etc. 20,008 20,008 20,008 20,00 S
Fittings . . . . 2,517 2,038 2,332 4,065
Stocks . . . . 997 696 1,113 6.801
Debtors . . . , 32,036 34,656 35,499 22,399
Cash, etc 346 310 847 1,851
Including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£18,398 = 12s. 9d. per share)
was £11,739 lighter than at the previous
balance. Continued trading losses would,
of course, eat into this surplus, which,
together with £4065 of fittings, is all there
is to represent tangibly the share capital.
There has been no officially-recorded
sale of the pound shares for some
months; they fetched 38s. two years ago.
Mt. Isa
Mt. Isa (Q.), which has been produc-
ing only silver-lead bullion, has not yet
been able to earn enough to give share-
holders anything. Furthermore, it is
difficult to say when it is likely to do
so, notwithstanding the recent strengthen-
ing of metal prices and the board’s deci-
sion to produce zinc concentrates.
Without making any allowance for
depreciation or amortisation, the co.
recorded a loss of £8195 for the year to
June 30 last as against a loss of £166,315
for the preceding 12 months, thus raising
the p. and 1. debit to £413,301. Metal
sales, etc., were £202,380 better at
£1,000,081, owing mainly to larger output'
and better price for silver. Including
interest (£229,662, up £15,207), exes.
(£1,000,081) took £44,252 of the increase.
When the books closed paid capital
stood at £1,944,202 ; the debenture debt
totalled £2,978,246 (up £466,508 net), and
there was £760,270 (down £125,329)
coming to sundry creditors. It is thus
plain that the co.’s friends have given it
substantial assistance. The mine, plant,
etc., figured at cost, £4,513,898 (up
£110,334); stores, £179,361 (up £16,619);
products on hand, £443,439 (up
£210,768); debtors, cash, etc., £132,718
(down £4738).
Ore production totalled 552,184 tons
(up 61,301 tons), mostly a carbonate-
sulphide mixture from the Black Star.
The quantity milled was 546,760 tons (up
55,790 tons), averaging 9.4 p.c. lead and
5.90 z. silver as against 10.1 p.c. lead and
4.90 z. silver for the previous term. Re-
coveries (78.4 p.c. lead and 70.5 p.c.
silver, compared with 79.9 p.c. lead and
70.4 p.c. silver in 1934) were affected by
the presence of soluble salts. The con-
centrates are railed to Townsville and
shipped to the Britannia Refinery, on the
Thames (Eng.), for treatment. All-in
costs were 4d. lighter at 225. 6.6 d. per
ton ; a rise of Is. 6.3 d. in mining and
development charges (9s. 5.8 d. per ton)
was mostly offset by a drop of Is. 2.4 d.
in smelting costs (ss. 2.8 d. per ton).
Ore reserves at June 30, 1935, totalled
14,120,500 tons, made up as follows:
Silver, Lead, Zinc,
Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c.
Carbonate ore—
Rio Grande lode 20,500 10.15 15.93
Sulphide ore—
Black Star lode 13,886,600 5.28 8.14 9.42
Black Rock lode 36,800 7.69 10.62 4.10
Rio Grande lode 176,600 13.79 14.47 6.25
Of that lot 11,680,000 tons is classed
as developed ore and 2,440,500 tons as
prospective ore.
In 1930 the co.’s consulting engineers,
Mining Trust, Ltd., figured that the
annual profit from the first 2000-ton-a-
-day unit would be £394,000, with lead
at £l4 and silver at Is. 7d. an ounce.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts, lead averaged £ll os. 6d.
(down 10s. 7d.) per ton in London, and
silver 2s. 3.8 d. (up 7.3 d.).
B. H. Prop, paid for the 2,700,000 £1
ord. shares, paid to £2,473,500, in Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel with 750,000 of its
own £1 shares. On the basis of the
market price of B.H.P. scrip (58s. 3d.),
A. I. and S. shareholders received
approximately 17s. Bd. per pound of
their paid-up capital.
* * * , *
B. H. Prop.’s old mine at the Barrier,
where the warden recently refused to
grant the co. further exemption from
labor conditions, is expected to be pro-
ducing about 3000 tons of ore monthly
by March next. Between 400 and 500
men will then be employed on the
property.
H= * * *
There was a sharp drop of £35,416
in the net earnings (£12,970) of J. and A.
Brown and Abermain Seaham Collieries
(N.S.W.) for the year to June 30 last,
and no div. was paid ; 2\ p.c. was
handed out on the £1,900,007 of share
capital for each of the three preceding
years. The trouble was loss of a con-
tract, held by the Brown interests for
nearly 30 years, for the supply of coal
to the Australian Gas Light Co. at the
end of 1934. The quantity involved was
then about 370,000 tons p.a. Plant used
exclusively for the Gas Co.’s require-
ments has not yet found profitable em-
ployment. Further, for the year to Sept.
30 last the co. had contracts to supply the
N. S. Wales Government railways with
250,000 tons of large coal at from 10s.
3d. to 10s. 6d. a ton, and 50,000 of small
coal at Bs. lOd. a ton. For the year to
Sept. 30, 1936, it has had contracts
accepted for 10,000 tons of large coal
at 11s. 9d. Provided labor is not too
blind to tolerate its introduction,
mechanisation, which means reduction of
costs, may do much to help the industry
out of the backwash in which it has
been struggling for the last half-dozen
years. British and American experience
in this connection has been encouraging.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s new issue of 372,000
shares of 2s. 6d. at a premium of 7s. 6d.
each is offered, one for five, to those on
the register at Feb. 15. The new shares
will not rank for dividends until June 15,
so no advantage will be gained by pay-
ing calls in advance. The old shares
(face value now 2s. 6d.) are at 19s. 3d.
or thereabouts in the market. Details
■concerning the new plant to treat 800
tons of oxidised ore daily have been
completed, and orders for the equip-
ment are to be placed forthwith. The
existing sulphide plant is scheduled to
treat 30,000 tons of ore monthly by June
next. There is over 12 months’ supply of
water in the dams.
* * * *
Tasmanian Amalgamated Tin was
recently formed in Melbourne to work
a 95-acre claim at Benison Bell, on the
Emu Bay railway line, between Rose-
bery and Zeehan, on the West Coast of
Tas. Nominal capital is £50,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 30,000 were offered and
underwritten, and are now paid to Is.
6d. each. The vendors took 20,000 paids
as part-purchase consideration, and hold
a two years’ par option over a like num-
ber of the 30,000 shares in reserve.
C. W. Gudgeon, formerly g.m. of Mt.
Bischoff, figures there are 11,560 tons of
positive ore, assaying 1.02 p.c. tin, and
21,900 tons of probable ore, assaying
approximately 0.5 p.c. tin. The deposit
can be worked by opencut, a 70 p.c.
recovery is spoken of, and working costs
are not expected to exceed 10s. 6d. a ton.
* * * *
New Harbour Tin (Development),
N.L., is another recently-formed Mel-
bourne concern which has taken an
option over 2000 acres of tin-bearing
land at New Harbor Creek, near Port
Davey, on the inhospitable s.-w. coast of
Tas. Nominal capital is £60,000 in £1
shares, of which 54,000, paid to Is. each
on application, have been taken. If the
option is exercised, the vendor, H. E.
Evendon, the original discoverer of the
property, gets 6000 paids, plus £lOOO
cash. Dish samples have ranged from
31b. to 151 b. tin per cubic yard. In addi-
tion to a potential dredging area, a quartz
reef on a low terrace near the western
boundary outcrops for more than a mile ;
it shows fair prospects of tin all along,
with enrichment at the southern end.
* * * *
New England Tin, which took over a
211-acre property adjoining Curnow’s,
Torrington (N.S.W.), in April last, looks
like developing into a dividend-payer.
Up till the time the co. took over, the
mine had produced 1009 tons of tin con-
centrates, valued at £142,425, from 18,672
tons of ore, mostly stoped from above
No. 3 level. Here the lode is 2ft. 4in.
wide ; in the face on No. 4 level it is
3ft. 6in. wide, and carries fair values.
* * * *
Westralia’s Golden Mile looks well.
Lake View’s ore reserves were in-
creased to 3,035,000 tons during 1935,
and rich sections of rock were exposed
at depth in Chaffers workings. “More
favorable now than at any period of
the mine’s history” is chairman Agnew's
description of the outlook. Great
Boulder’s ore reserves also show sub-
stantial increase, and diamond-drilling to
6000 ft. is expected to disclose further
sources of wealth. South Kalgurli and
Boulder Perseverance seem to be getting
further ahead of the mill, and so does
North Kalgurli. Paringa reports that it
has a lot of ore available for treatment,
and is hurrying the installation of a plant.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, backed by
Collins House and possessing a number
of old mines, including the Iron Duke,
is whooping about it's prospects; it is
spending £30,000 on a central power
station.
si'. * * ❖
Sand Queen-Gladsome, the first of the
De Bernales Westralian group to reach
the production stage —Yellowdine will be
next —starts crushing at the rate of about
2000 tons a month right away. At one
time this mine was a regular producer,
and, according to some miping men,
should never have been closed down,
even with gold at 85s. an ounce. Alto-
gether, 215,000 tons extracted down to
the 800 ft. level was treated for an
average return of 675. a ton. It is esti-
mated that 50,000 tons of partly-
developed 13dwt. ore was left behind.
The shoot in the bottom of the mine is
declared to be 1200 ft. in length and
worth 14dwt. over a width of 3ft.
# » * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.), which has
only a few months’ work ahead on its
old Horseshoe dump, is now preparing
to treat over 3,000,000 tons of Great
Boulder’s residues, bought for £62,536,
plus half the profits. The co. is to be
allowed to redeem half the £62,536 by a
charge per ton against working costs.
The sands will be pumped over a mile
to the plant (it is south of Lake View
and Star leases), whose capacity is to be
nearly doubled, raising it to 60,000 tons
monthly. On this basis the co. has an-
other five years’ life ahead of it.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated (W.A.) re-
ports that, owing to damage caused by
an inrush of sand, the main unwatering
pump has been raised to the surface for
repair. Another pump has been in-
stalled at the 300 ft. level until the main
unit is serviceable again. The period of
delay is estimated at six weeks. Mean-
while, the new treatment plant goes
hungry for ore.
* * * *
The Fair Play and Golden group of
leases at the northern end of the Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) field are being developed
by the Melbourne-controlled Universal
Gold Development Co. The properties
are near the old Hidden Secret, where
telluride was discovered. A lot of work
was done on the areas in the past for
fair returns. Tha main, shaft is being
sunk to 200ft'. This portion of the Kal-
goorlie belt has never been opened up to
any extent to prove the downward con-
tinuation of the ore-bodies.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant, which hasn’t yet
met with much luck (the co. was formed in
July, 1934), has secured another option—
this time over the Welcome Extended at
Lennonville, seven miles from Mt’.
Magnet (W.A.). The ore-body is low-
grade ; still, if there is enough of it
averaging sdwt., the management says
that it will pay handsomely.
* * * *
Gold Reef (W.A.) Development, which
is Melbourne-controlled, has abandoned
its options at Balgarrie, about 12 miles
west of Ora Banda (W.A.), on the recom-
mendation of T. R. Victor, the property
being considered unsuitable for company
operations. The co. has received the
vendor’s consideration (10,000 pafds, plus
£lOOO cash) in connection with the flota-
tion of Glenfine South Consolidated, and
is now on the hunt for other properties.
* * * *
Goldfields Australian Development,
which is interested in the Moonlight
Wiluna leases and in Yellowdine Gold
Development, is now prospecting Tyrrel’s
mine, at Linden (W.A.), from an old shaft
60ft. deep. Two ore-shoots have been
exposed, one 91ft. in length, averaging
335. over 56in., and the other, 84ft. long,
averaging 38s. over 18in. Both values
are in sterling.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance,
formed in London in 1925 to take over
the Canadian assets of Associated Gold
Mines of W.A. —its interests include
blocks of shares in Lake View and Wiluna
—is in a healthy condition. Quoted
securities, which stand in the sheet at
£376,713, had a market value of over
£500,000, and cash, etc., amounted to
nearly £BO,OOO, at June 30 last. The co.
is thus in a position to participate in any
new business of real promise that might
present itself.
* * ¥ *
Granites Development, Mayfield Gold
Development and Wiluna Extended have
each taken a one-third interest in a free-
working option over a 40-acre lease
about a mile and a quarter west of the
Rising Sun, at Tennant’s Creek, Centralia.
The only work done on the area is a
20ft. shaft, from which 18 tons
yielded 430 z. 9dwt. over the plates. To
date, development on this field has all
been at shallow depths ; nobody is yet
certain how values behave in the sul-
phide zone. Also, in places, the country
appears to be very faulted. At the
moment', two urgent wants are an
adequate water supply and crushing facili-
ties. Because of this, many gougers
have parcels of rich ore on hand which
cannot be turned into cash.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.L.C.: (1) There is no specified date of
maturity; returns, if any, to bondholders
depend upon whether the forest products can
be sold at a profit. (2) They look like a
very good long-term investment... .P.P.: A
last-survivorship annuity, taken out with any
sound life office, will yield a secure and hand-
some return H.R.C.: (1) Yes. (2) A
thoroughly sound office... .8.5.: (1) Wiluna,
Lake View and Star and Mt. Morgan. (2)
Lancefield... .H. 8.: It is a comparatively new
concern which shows promise; but it is not
wise to keep all your eggs in one basket.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith., Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: Trying to make old
Joe laugh over the story of the Moree
(N.S.W.) fireman who had to dash off to
a blazing house fully arrayed as Santa
Claus, I only made the old chap indig-
nant. “Perlice oughter stop coves run-
nin’ about like that at fires. ’Spose a
man ’ad a weak ’eart? One time in
Noo South, I come back after I’d got
rid uv me cheque, an’ strike me up a
gum-tree if the ’omestead wasn’t on fire,
and not a soul about! I was just
reckonin’ what I’d better do when up
comes the flamin’ waggonette at a gallop,
and out ’ops ’Enry the Eighth, follered
by the Devil. Yairs —the Devil, I tell
yer: ’orns, ’oofs, tail an’ all. Soon as ’e
gets a screw on ter me ’e sings out: ‘Get
some buckets, Joe, yer fool!’ Wot with
me nerves bein’ none too good after the
booze, and ’im knowin’ me moniker, 1
does even time fer the trees, an’ when 1
comes back the flamin’ place is burnt.
’Ow was / ter know that they’d come
back from one of them there fancy-dress
darnces?”
* * sf« * *
“Saddle-flap”: Saw a cross be-
tween a dingo and a blue-heeler
cattle-bitch in Dimbula (N.Q.)
recently. The pup looked an ami-
able domesticated dingo,, but his
half-caste owner summed him up
thus: “That pfeller too close longa
dingo. Send him out one day, no
come back. Him no good till crossed
three times away dingo.” And to prove
his case the darky wanted to give me
the dog.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: I noticed a string of ants
passing up the side of one of my honey
tanks and entering a small hole in the
cover; each ascending ant carried in its
jaws a tiny fragment of leaf or wood.
I took the cover off the tank and found
that the ants were carrying the little
chips to the surface of the honey, and
there laying them down as a kind of
pavement on the sticky surface, which
enabled them to suck up loads of honey
in safety. Not one solitary ant had
bogged in the honey, though thousands
were passing to and from it.
* * * *
“Tripod”: Fellows who take pride in
being able to recognise their own
dog’s bark should learn from a widow
who runs a cow-farm in the Brisbane
Valley. A bellowing at night from the
back paddock and her sons were posted
off to “see what’s wrong with Poppy.”
Poppy it was —she had fallen through
and tangled herself in a three-wire fence.
Not bad picking in a herd of 38 cows.
But she surprised even her sons by in-
forming them, again at night—and again
“lt sounds like Bella,”
Bella being a cow sold and taken off up
the creek to a neighbor about a week
before.
* * * *
“Squid”: He was a doctor, an
F.R.C.S., who was taking a spell on the
reef. As he waded in a bay a stingaree
got him just above the ankle. Many miles
from his surgery, and without a bottle of
anything other than beer in the camp,
the doc. made the best of the circum-
stances: he set his medical mind to
diagnose his own case and take note of
the waves of agony which swept over
him in pulsing undulations. “How long
is this blasted thing going to last?” he
asked himself in between spasms, with
sweat standing in beads on his forehead.
Old Percy, the blackboy, told him:
“Him go way finish soon’s th’ tide turns.”
“Rot!” the doc. snapped. In spite of
the pain, he commenced quite a learned
discourse on the stages the virus had to
run, and all that sort of thing. He
stopped short in wonderment: the pain
had magically ceased. “Tide turned
now,” Percy announced triumphantly.
“Tha’ one leg he soon be right.”
sfc * * *
“L. 1.8.”: “Fisher’s Ghost” errs
slightly (B. 1/1 / ’36) when he assigns
wounded soldiers to a “catafalque.” The
only soldiers allowed to use the latter
machine, and then only at their own
funeral, are field-marshals. The camel
atrocity he is driving at was the
“cacolet,” which was simply a stretcher,
into which the wounded man was
strapped before it was hung on one side
of an oont. The strapping-in was neces-
sary, not only because of the swinging
and jolting of the accursed contrivance,
but because the wounded man, if he
could get a chance, would try to throw
himself out of it.
* * * *
“G.G.2”: If weird springs are allowed
to compete with waterholes (B. 4/12/’35),
my nomination is the Ti-tree Springs, on
the Hamilton River, Warenda station
(W.Q.). This collection is on the eastern
side of the river, 15 to 20 miles below
the pub. A man may go there at dif-
ferent times and see, over an area 440
yards by 200 yards, (1) oozing water,
pools everywhere, with the jungle of trees
bright with blossoms and loud with
birds; (2) an arid block, the surface
coated with a saline or magnesia powder
“What about the inscription, sir?”
“I'd prefer something in the Tennyson line.”
“Well, Tm not much of a poet meself, but me offsider'll give it a go.”
inches deep ; (3) a quaking mass, with the
bones of animals swallowed in the long
ago cast up and lying two to three storeys
high. Again, in next to no time, all
those bones are swallowed again, the
thing is clean and fresh, with water flow-
ing and birds singing.
* * * *
“H.Mc.”: Mention of coral-stepping
ponies (B. 11/12/’35) only confirms the
belief that horses accustom themselves to
the conditions of the country they are
bred in. A mile from J. Cleeland’s
property at Wollomai, on Phillip Island
(eastern entrance to Westernport, Vic.),
where the old Melbourne Cup win-
ner Wollomai was bred, is The Narrows
—a tide-race worse than the Port Phillip
Rip. On numerous occasions at San
Remo, on the mainland, I’ve seen
Cleeland’s anchor-branded horses that
have been sold off the place return and
swim the passage back to their old home.
* * * *
“Kelly”: “H.H.’s” cuckoo (B.
4/12/’35) wasn’t singular. I’ve never
seen a stormbird (giant-billed cuckoo)
yet which didn’t receive the attention of
all the crows within hearing. The full-
grown bird they chase while the lady of
the species slips back to get in her good
work. When the little storm-bird is
hatched, and after it has slung all the
baby crows out of the nest, it has only
to flap its stubs of wings and croak
wheezily to send all the crows within
hearing, bustling for the lick of their
lives to forage tucker for it. I’ve seen
half a dozen or more black fiends crowd-
ing round, waiting their turn to feed that
strange baby. When the stormie takes its
first few flights a jeering crowd of crows
follows it. But that thing only has to
come to rest on a bough, open its mouth
and squawk, and every crow in sight
bustles to find tucker for it.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Teak the world’s best
boat-building wood (B. 11/12/’35)? Cor-
rect ; though Tasmanian huon pine runs
a close second. In Hobart this wood has
been taken from ships nearly a century
old, and sound as a bell. Almost all
of the Speck’s fleet of trading ketches
are built of it. It is light, durable, easy
to work and worm-resisting, like teak.
Its limited supply prevents it from being
more widely used. To realise this, one
wants to watch the loggers at work at
the rugged headwaters of the Gordon
and other rivers on the West Coast, where
to-day one has to go to find big sticks
of huon pine.
“Horse-tailer”: The teak from the
old Mulgrave battery, Hobart, was more
than a century old when it was dis-
mantled and carted to Charley Lucas’s
ship-building yard on the Derwent to be
fashioned into skylights and combing,
and to seek romance once more on the
sea. The companion-hatch on the yacht
Ronda, launched from Lucas’s slip in
1921 and now a crayfishing cutter at
Queenscliff (Vic.), was made of this
wood. “Teak like that,” Lucas told me,
“will never shrink.” And in three dif-
ferent trips across Bass Strait in the little
cutter the hatch never showed a sign of
sticking
“Somnus”: “Oloc’s” stinging fish
caught in fresh water (B. 4/12/’35) may
be, as he suggests, a salt-water denizen
gone “fresh,” but it sounds to me like a
bull-rout, a horror which is fairly
numerous in the fresh-water creeks of
s.-e. Bananaland. The description is
similar. When half-buried (as it usually
is) in the mud, it resembles a small jagged
piece of water-worn tree-root. Anyone
who handles or stands on the fish is due
for a few hours of excruciating pain.
* * * *
“Physician”: “Kwakprak” is himself
wrong (B. 11/12/’35) about caisson
disease. He says it’s attributable to the
oxygen dissolved in the corpuscles.
Nothing to do with the oxygen—very
little to do with the corpuscles. It’s the
nitrogen dissolved in the blood fluid—the
plasma. The Admiralty method, by using
more and more oxygen in place of nitro-
gen lets divers work at greater depths
than formerly and decompress more
rapidly. On the way up they also have
a spell in a decompressive chamber. The
Admiralty experiments, by the way, have
shown that the chief handicap to the
deep-diver is a defective psychological
make-up. Unsuitable divers at 20
fathoms or more begin to suffer from
claustrophobia and other unpleasant
mental disturbances. So now a definite
mental examination is made before men
are allowed to try. The man responsible
for this, by the way, is an Australian,
Dr. E. Millais Culpin, member of a well-
known Brisbane medical family. He in-
vestigates psychological problems for the
British Ministry of Labor and Ministry
of Pensions and lectures at the London
Hospital.
3fC ' $ ' * *
“Grunter”: Woe to a sheep or a bul-
lock bogged in pig country! —and there’s
darned little of Queensland now which
doesn’t harbor the wild pig. He doesn’t
advertise as does the dingo. When
pigs have finished a job there’s nothing
left to advertise apart from bare bones.
I’ve seen a wild boar trailing a sheep
which appeared to be healthy. The sheep
was knuckling at the knees in his fear
and exhaustion, and the pig behind was
trotting along with an inflexibility of pur-
pose that would have ended that sheep’s
lot, once he went down, if I hadn’t inter-
vened.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A pair of flying possums—
the big black-and-white fellows —have
come to live near me, and moonlit even-
ings are the more interesting through
their aerobatics. Launching themselves
from high up in a tall tree, they sail
swiftly and silently down to the foot of
another, squeal triumphantly, and go up
it at a run, to play and feed among the
branches. It occurred to me to measure
some of their flights. The longest was
103 yards, made from a (measured)
height of 63 feet, which represents an
actual air-journey of nearly 106 yards.
For a big, strongly-built animal it seems
an amazing performance on mere skin-
flaps between front and hind legs. Can
the council supply an authentic longer
glide by Petauroides volans ?
* * * *
“Notaden”: Visiting the outer beach
to-day after a hard blow had piled it up
with ocean sundries, one was surprised
at the number of
land birds which
were picking
among the
treasure trove.
Kelly the crow, of
course —he is a
regular beach-
comber, always
on the lookout
for a dead fish or
a crab. Willie
Wagtail was
there, snapping
insects among the
drying seaweed,
and setting to
partners with his
lady friend on
the sand. Mag-
pies, too, are very
keen on the little
soft-shelled mol-
luscs attached to
the weed. A
butcher-bird did
not seem to fancy the menu, and left
after a brief inspection of a dead crab.
But a totally surprising visitor was a
blue wren, in all his cerulean loveliness
and animated spirits, squiring his de-
murely dressed harem of five to a seaside
trip with the aplomb of a hardened
longshoreman.
“M 8”: Melbourne needn’t think its
possums are worth writing home about
(B. 1/1 / ’36); Sydney has ’em, too, by the
thousand. But has Melbourne native
cats —real ones, not domestics gone
bush? I found one in a suburban street
below New South Head-road, Vaucluse.
It had been knocked by a car.
$ if * *
“Cam Cove”: The full-grown swan is
a quarrelsome cuss. I know he is sup-
posed to be docile and equitable, but
he isn’t. When his paddy is up he never
knows when to stop rampaging. Saw
a garden-variety black swan cut loose
the other day and stoush the whole camp.
But he wasn’t satisfied with victory ; he
kept up the attack, cornering one com-
rade . after the other and biffing him in
the neck. His riotous behavior was
monotonous, because it was the same
thing over and over again: a clumsy
chase after one of his relations, a wallop
with his bill and then off after another.
They were all scared of him, but couldn’t
escape. He managed always to run his
victim into an angle of the fence. When
I left he had been around the family a
dozen times and was still storming.
IT GOES TO SHOW YOU.
A man will think that he’s set,” he said,
“He’s got it taped to an inch or two.
The bits of trouble he sees ahead
Are nothing to what he’s battled through.
At last he’s finding his way about;
He’s getting there, and he means to stay;
Then all of a sudden he’s counted out.
It goes to show you, I always say.
“You’ll find there’s always a thing or two
To knock your little world out of joint;
One day you’re watching your dreams come
true,
The next you’re back at the starting-point.
looking blue and you’re feeling sad;
You’ve done your dash, and you’ve had
your day.
But you gain nothing by getting mad.
It goes to show you, I always say.'
“It goes to show you you’re not so smart;
It goes to show you there’s more to know;
It makes you think that you mucked your
start
Or made your finish a bit too slow.
It goes to show you, when next you try,
The kind of game that it’s best to play.
It shows you just what you are —and why.
It goes to show you, 1 always say.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


The O.D. : Those nor’-west N.
S. Welsh who saw ice for the first
time (B. 1 /1 / ’36) remind me of a
publican at Moonbi, half-way be-
tween Forbes and Condobolin
(N.S.W.). A carload of us entered
his bar and called for beer one day
when the thermo, was 102 in the
waterbag. “It’s off the ice, I hope,” said
the first to shout. “Too right!” replied
Bung breezily. It didn’t taste like it,
however, and somebody growled,
“Thought you said it was off the ice?”
“An’ so ’tis,” snapped Bung; “thirty
miles off!”
* * * *
“Mug Pirate” : Another lure, irresistible
to the most fastidious of Murray cod (B.
25/12/’35), is the heart of a wild turkey.
But the heart must be fresh, and it should
be taken only from a four-year-old bird
on the third Tuesday after the New-
market Handicap. Failing the heart of
a bustard, the giblets of a night parrot
will serve if first thoroughly soaked in
a gill of 1936 vodka. But why bother
with such finical bait? If you must have
cod, fry a pan of mud, and you’ve got
it —near enough.
* ❖
“Flight”: The nutmeg or Torres Strait
pigeon, which once annually reached
North Queensland in enormous hordes,
comes now in sadly-depleted numbers —
10 or 12 are a big mob where a few
years back that many thousands caused
no comment. Sportsmen, if such they
can be called, have done the dirty deed.
There is no quicker way to extermi-
nate any breed of birds —or animals
either, for that matter —than to attack it
during its breeding season; and these
Torres Strait birds come south to breed.
The State Government has made all
islands off the Queensland coast bird and
animal sanctuaries. The intention may
be good ; the execution will continue so
long as there are things to be shot.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: A hard-boiled acquaintance
was explaining to me why he gave up
a job in the bush to go on the dole. “Me
and me mate didn’t mind the wages so
much, although they wouldn’t keep a
bloke in bootlaces, but the old cow we
was working for started to get a bit Ikey
on the tucker. The dead finish came
one morning when he began to carve
up a saveloy among the three of us for
breakfast.”
* * * *
“Ceegee” (Rabaul): Should it rain
svhilst the sun is shining, the interpreta-
tion made by my Buin “boy” is that a
big ship is nearing Rabaul. Personally
I think it is all bunk, especially in this
case —when one remembers that the
Macdhui is due within the next 24 hours,
and a large tourist liner towards the end
of the week. The superstition, however,
appears to have its origin in the fact that
years ago, before the advent of the
white man, if a sun-shower occurred it
was a sure sign of attack by a hostile
village. Now that scrapping in Buin has
become a thing of the past, the super-
stition has apparently been changed from
fighting to shipping.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: The mirage in Aus-
tralia has no special habitat or climate.
I have seen it building castles in the
blazing heat on western plains (N.S.W.)
and running trams through the air on
a cool day in Melbourne. In the autumn
it can be seen in Sydney, but it achieves
very little more than a mere shimmer
or, occasionally, a small patch of water
on a hot bitumen road. Apropos, it is
time someone knocked out the old belief
that mirages lure thirsty men to their
doom. Hundreds of times I have heard
the story of a man rushing towards a
lake of water and dying of thirst before
he got to it. Utter rot! A mirage lasts
only a few minutes, and the illusion
varies as you move forward. Even a
newchum couldn’t be deceived by it for
long. My experience is that a mirage
always does its star turn just after rain.
If there is water on the ground, and the
heat and the light are suitable, the per-
formance will be something to re-
member.
* * * *
“Eques”: All cavalry soldiers are
taught to mount on either side (B.
1/1 / ’36), but few outside the service
try to learn the knack. The accomplish-
ment once brought me into disrepute.
“Why Weren't you at the court to answer that summons this morning ?”
“ Blime , I bin that busy I forgot Wot day it Was."
Going as a convalescent from a South
African military hospital to Pietermaritz-
burg I was introduced by an enthusiastic
friend to a local family, mostly nice
girls, who were keen horsewomen and
had heard wonders of Australian horse-
manship. A few days before another
Australian officer, who was one of the
finest bicycle roughriders in Queensland,
had made a lamentable display of himself
at a riding party with these damsels.
Our mutual friend assured them I was
the real Mackay, however, and would
show them something. When the day
came I joined the party waiting with a
led horse in the street. My left leg was
practically out of action through a
recent wound and could bear no weight.
Brushing aside the Hindu groom who
held the near side stirrup, I went round
to the off side and swung into the saddle.
The look of consternation on the faces
Quick, mister—bring ’er over ’ere a minute
of all present could not be missed. The
afternoon was spent in an atmosphere
of monosyllables and cold aversion as far
as the girls were concerned. It was not
until I saw my friend later that I found
that I had been written down as an-
other Australian impostor who did not
even know the proper side to board a
gee.
“Mat’s Mate”: That Vic. cocky seemed
to think we were perpetual motion or
something. We were getting 15s. a day
and tucker, but his idea was to work
us seven days a week, and the tucker
—well, when Mat reached for the butter
the missus removed it and said calmly,
“No butter for the working men.”
Naturally we growled, mostly about the
hours, frequently about the tucker.
Whenever we did, the cocky would
always come back that when he was
young he thought nothing of working
so-and-so and eating thus-and-thus. The
end came the night his horses got into
the wheat and he roused us to help him
get ’em out. After a couple of hours
floundering about in the dark, Mat said,
“Be ’anged to you and y’r ’orses —I’m
goin’ to bed!” The cocky sneered and
said, “Cripes, I dunno what young blokes
are cornin’ t’! In my young days I
thought nothing of workin’ all day and
then roundin’ up cattle at night—thought
nothing of it!” Mat’s voice was worth
a £1 note as he replied, “Y’ know, 1
reckon y’re right. Blowed if I think
much of it, either.”
“Avis”: The ornithological world has
been greatly intrigued over the alleged
discovery that verminous birds rid them-
selves of their pests by many ingenious
methods. The starling, lousiest of birds,
is said to catch ants and put them on
its feathers and under its wings to drive
out the chats—l have done the same
thing with my clothes in South Africa—
and other birds rub themselves with a
cut lemon when they can get one. An
Australian magpie has been seen to use
his boss’s cigar-bumpers for the purpose,
and so on. None of them seem to have
approached in intelligence Billy Wack-
ford’s cockatoo. Billy was the town
drunk of my youth, and the bird was
occasionally afflicted, like all his kind,
with red mites. When this happened
Cocky would wait till his boss came
home full to the teeth and flung himself
on the bunk with his mouth open.
Cocky would then stand over the open
mouth preening and ruffling his feathers
until the ascending vapors had removed
his troubles. Sometimes they set fire to
his feathers, but that was a risk the
sagacious fowl was always prepared to
take.
* * * *
“Public Enemy No. 1”: That argu-
ment about the slaughtering propensities
of cormorants and crows (B. 25/12/’35)
moves me to point out that the
vilest assassin of all birds is the
kookaburra. In the nesting
season no birds will permit the
pirate to come within half a
mile of their nests, even the
magpies and butcher-birds, sus-
pected of cannibal tendencies
themselves, making cause against
him. The murderer’s habit is
to throw the nest to the ground
if it can be shifted. Then at
his ease he sits beside it and
gobbles eggs or nestlings. If
the nest is too solid he will eat
his meal up in the tree. The
old fraud’s villainy is made the
more abhorrent because of his claim to
be a benefactor of humanity as a snake-
killer—a claim that has brought him
official protection.
Hi # ♦
“The 0.D.”: “Tenta” (B. l/l/’36),who
didn’t see a dead maggie in a 500-mile
trip from Tenterfield to Sydney by road,
was too late. All the maggies along that
road have been killed. “Tenta” should
take a few trips over the gravelly roads
out west. They’d convert his scepticism.
* * * *
“Gar”: When these fellows are argu-
ing about how to cook a fish they need
to say where they are. Tastes vary. In
the south mullet is second-class stuff, in
the north it has first place on the bill of
fare. In the south gar and whiting are
prized, in the north professional fisher-
men don’t worry about either —throw
them back into the sea rather than go
to the trouble of having the buyer do it
for them. Kingfish with the northerner
have a very limited sale. Barramundi is
as good as money in the bank. Bonita
is a thing which isn’t eaten, not even by
a blackboy.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: The killing of a Fijian boy
by a barracuda—don’t mix this beast
up with the barracouta, which Victorians
and Maorilanders devour in such quan-
tities when it’s smoked —reminds me that
attacks by the great sea-pike are rarely
heard of in Australian waters, though
north of 28 he is common enough and
has even been caught in Port Jackson.
This fellow, most ferocious of all salt-
water fish, runs to over six feet in length
and is built on the lines of a torpedo,
with long jaws lined with straight, razor-
edged teeth. His usual method of
attack on a swimmer is disembowelment,
and in the Western Pacific and West
Indies, where he has a long casualty list
to his discredit, is more dreaded than any
shark. In the case of large prey like
human beings it is interesting to note
that the barracuda seems to kill for
sport only, and shows no signs of mak-
ing a meal of his victims.
* * * *
“Imshallah”: The Afghans who in-
sisted on killing the sheep with their
own hands (B. 1/1 / ’36) were only fol-
lowing the universal practice of Mos-
lems. The beast may be at the point of
death from a bullet wound, but provided
the throat is cut to the muttered
invocation “In the name of
God” it is fit for the Faithful
to eat. The Jews, whom Dis-
raeli calls “the Mosaic Arabs,”
have a similar observance. Any-
one who has shot game with
Moslem attendants about will
recall the blackguard rush made by
all and sundry to cut the dying beast’s
throat and utter the invocation in time.
# * * *
“Lower Tops!”: Eating squid (B.
4/12/’35) reminds me that some people
eat stingaree, too. Twelve years ago,
near the Sandringham pier (Vic.), we
kept our boat gear in old Joe Garriga’s
shed. Joe, now retired to Spain, used to
sell his haul from the boatshed. Often I
saw him offering “sting-gee” to regular
customers, assuring them that this fish
was a big, flat fish “lika zee flounda.”
And by the way the flaps sold it must
have tasted like it.
ORPHANED WATER.
The rains have flooded the coolabah hole,
And the birds are building their nests
Where the kites take toll of the rat and mole
At eve when the prenty rests;
But the beasts that drink there have lost their
fears
Of the hunter long since, I trow,
For buried deep are his clubs and spears,
And it hasn’t a black man now.
’Tis orphaned water —to tribes around
The bounds of the vanished clan —
And none is found on the sacred ground
Defying the tribal ban.
Only the dogs from the grey hillside
And dens on the ridge’s brow
Come down in the hush df eventide,
For it hasn’t a black man now.
Orphaned water —the camp where ghosts
In the wild winds sob and sigh;
Or, so they whisper, the nomad hosts,
E’en when the sun rides high.
Their tale unwritten, their fate unknown,
They vanished, no matter how;
’Tis a place that only the spirits own,
For it hasn’t a black man now.
N.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


LYS
IS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
■
Vy,
*
*Z>* V # '. f
V ,' : }-* V' ‘ P
,pi r v *‘'* WU > ‘ti. * >
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Breed Sheep That Pay.
“Lion”: Often one hears a merino-
wool grower saying he wouldn’t have a
crossbred sheep on his place. It would
spoil the wool on his ewes if they acci-
dentally mated with pure merinos.
Years of combined breeding have
given the lie to this belief in our case
in the Riverina. We run all merino ewes,
although occasionally we keep a drop
of first-cross ewes and keep merino rams,
English Leicester rams, Dorset Horns
and Southdowns, all for their various
purposes. We are out to breed only
sheep that pay. Hence the variety of
rams.
At recent Sydney auctions some of
the prices we received were: AAAAE,
20|d.; AAAA, 19|d.; AAA, 19d.;
bkn, 16|d.; pieces, 12Jd. English
Leicester-merino cross wool fetched:
AAA, 18fd.; AAAAcbdH, 18d. The
first-cross lambs’ wool, from which come-
back was classed, sold for 16fd. and pure
crossbred for lid. The whole clip aver-
aged 15jd. per pound. The crossbred
wool evidently didn’t cause the clip aver-
age to flop.
Using the E.L.-merino cross one gets
much comeback wool, both among the
lambs and the full-grown sheep ; also a
long warp wool which, in our clip,
fetched 19d. this year. In my opinion
this cross is absolutely the most payable
dual-purpose breed in spite of “proofs”
that the Border Leicester cross beats it
all round. This latter cross gives a little
better carcass, but loses in wool and in
lambing losses —on aggregate returns.
When something prevents lambs from
the E.L. cross maturing as suckers, keep
them. Victoria pays big prices in the
paddock for such sheep, shorn or other-
wise. They always have a high market
value anywhere.
If the first-cross ewes are joined to
D. or Southdown rams, the result is
quick-maturing suckers, of which it pays
to breed only as many as one knows can
be got off. If the same ewes are joined
to a good-quality, medium-woolled (in
count) merino ram, excellent, high-
quality, well-woolled sheep result.
Again, these find a ready sale on any
market, grow very profitable wool and
become a fine type of big-bodied sheep.
One hears of mating troubles with
British breeds. Having used many dif-
ferent types, I struck trouble only last
year, owing, I think, to having bought a
fresh mob of ewes. Even then we
marked 69 p.c. lambs.
Keep the rams on good feed all the
yar Join the same time each
year. Try to give joined mobs green
feed whilst joined, although this is
not essential. Yard regularly at least
every second night. Put in 2 p.c.
rams for a week, then withdraw those
and put in 5 p.c. fresh ones. Leave until
most have taken. We join Sept, to Oct.,
and never fail to get March and April
drops. These can either be got off as
suckers or shorn at the general shearing,
according to season. There is plenty of
time to decide the point. We sent shorn
E. cross lambs to Victoria about
four months old for 13s. 6d. almost off-
shears and in the paddock.
For the second time running our
E.L.-m. cross ewes look first and second
prizes at the local show, which is a big
one
If a bad lambing is experienced rejoin
the ewes when lambing. It is a good
time to catch them, and doesn’t hurt
them in a good season.
Put merino rams in to catch late-
comers after withdrawing the longwools,
as one can keep the progeny for breed-
ing.
Flock Averages.
“Bungaree”: One of the essentials of
good management is to know the earn-
ing capacity of your stock. A man may
be able to tell a good sheep from a
faulty one at a glance, and a brief inspec-
tion should be enough to cull the short-
stapled, open-woolled, bare-pointed or
bad-quality sheep from a mob, but it is
remarkable how few men can tell cor-
rectly what weight of fleece a sheep will
cut. Accuracy calls for the study of
type, the country sheep are run on, the
season, whether the animal has reared a
lamb, and the amount of dust, burr and
condition in the fleece.
Most owners and managers expect the
classer to supply them with the average
weights. Some companies insist on this ;
others insist that the classer’s figures
should agree with the weights of wool
shown against the flock in the shed wool-
book. This can be done only by halting
shearing operations until all wool in the
bins has been pressed—a procedure that
adds considerably to costs, causes dissatis-
faction among the shearers and results in
a crop of mixed bales and butts. Ex-
cept for breaks between totally dissimilar
flocks, such as bought sheep, flocks
carrying heavier burr or off a different
class of country or sheep of different
breeds, there should be no need for such
a procedure.
The manager can keep down costs by
shearing his sheep in the proper order.
It is a good plan to get the rams out of
the way first, then follow each flock with
the one whose wool will most closely
match it. In a well-laid-out shed,
properly organised, it is possible to go
through the entire shearing without los-
ing a blow apart from the time required
to count-out on flock cut-outs.
The classer should first satisfy him-
self, by an examination of the flock
to follow, that its wool will closely
approximate that of the sheep being
shorn. He should also endeavor, by
regulating the pressers, to clean out as
many bins as possible, or to leave only
a little wool that may be blended into
the next lot. On the cut-out, the classer
should make a tour of all the bins with
paper and pencil, and should note the
approximate weight of wool left in each.
A line should be drawn in the wool-book
under the last bale of each flock.
To get the average weight of wool cut
per head, add the weights shown in the
wool-book against that particular flock.
To this add the weight of wool left in
the bins. Deduct the tare —the weight
of the packs—and divide the total by
the number of sheep shorn, taking it to
one decimal point. In calculating the
average of the following flock, the
weight of wool carried in from the pre-
ceding flock must also be deducted.
Those averages are essential to every
man who is trying to improve his sheep ;
success is largely a matter of knowing
which sheep it pays him best to keep and
which he ought to get rid of. Don’t
trust rule-of-thumb methods.
Drench the Horses Now.
“Stump Jump”: In addition to after-
harvest being often the only slack period
for team horses, they are usually much
worn down at this time by the com-
bined effects of parasites and heavy work.
These effects do more damage than is
believed. It is folly to wait until a horse
starts to fall away in condition. Farms
where a flat, small horse paddock is used
or drinking is done from dams are pro-
lific sources of worm infection.
Even though there is no green feed in
January to act as a clean-out tonic, good
results can be had by using lucerne hay
or chaff, or else a daily feed of bran
and wheaten chaff, for one week after-
wards.
As a drench, oil stands alone. Gas
balls are effective, but unless given by
an expert are apt to be retained by the
horse at the base of the tongue, where
they burst and eat away tissue. A
drench of \\ to 1| eggcups of turpen-
tine, mixed thoroughly with l\ pints of
linseed oil, is the best all-round one I’ve
used, and the simplest. The turpentine
dose is according to size.
Actual drenching is easy if the horse
is backed into a stall and a noose slipped
around the upper jaw, behind the nose
strap of the bridle. By putting two turns
of the nose rope round a crossbar, the
horse’s head can be raised to allow of
free administration.
The secret of good drenching is never
to force the stuff down or to be in a
hurry.
Stall Calving and Navel Cords.
“Silky Bag”: I wonder whether cows
are any better off for calving in a stall
(B. 25/12/’35). From my experience
they seem to prefer the freedom of a
good, grassy, protected lot, which is just
as hygienic. It is different, of course,
when the cow is in trouble.
A stall then prevents chill and blood-
poisoning, but clean straw and plenty
of phenol must be used.
In over a thousand calvings I have
not struck one case of umbilical-cord
trouble. Unless the calf is a “bleeder”
blood in the cord clots within a few
minutes of breakage, effectively prevent-
ing any germ infection.
The clotting is followed at once by
shrivelling, which is so rapid that any
interference is unwarranted. If the pas-
ture is well grassed, germ infection is
most unlikely.
“Ghanam’s” treatment is ideal, but I
suggest the cow and calf be given free-
dom until after the event. When the
cord commences to suppurate immediate
attention is needed.
Nature has developed methods to com-
bat this trouble through the ages. It
seems a pity to regularise treatments to
do away with these forms of auto-vacci-
nation.
An Eight-year Plan.
“The 0.D.”: Skeleton weed is good
sheep feed for only a limited period (B.
I/1 / ’36). Once it has reached the
branching stage it is too rough and
fibrous. Control is a matter of years.
A suggested programme begins when the
header goes into the wheat. A roller
should be fitted beneath the machine,
behind the comb, to roll down the
stubble and weed. Immediately after
stripping, and under the supervision of
the local bushfire brigade, and if permis-
sion can be obtained, burn the stubble
—a close, fierce burn. Then chop the
paddock up with a disc, flog it with
sheep ; work again, and sow a fodder
crop of oats.
As soon as this is taken off for hay
(or grain) give it another early, close burn,
and disc again. Work this as a fallow
for peas or oats, strip or cut for hay or
eat off, burn again, then work for lucerne
and/or Westralian early strain sub.
clover. Lambs should be topped off on
each of the crops preceding the lucerne.
If the lucerne and/or clover is prop-
erly sown and managed, that paddock
should be free to grow wheat without
danger of skeleton in eight years from
the last wheat crop.
The above, of course, is generalisa-
tion, but it is a plan that can be adapted
or modified for individual properties
according to soil and climatic factors
and extent of weed infestation. Small men
(640 acres and thereabouts) won’t like to
reduce wheat area, but if skeleton comes
and is not attacked the wheat area will
be reduced rapidly. By working along
lines suggested, the weed can be beaten
and the farmer can take a profit in fat
lambs and pigs off the farm at the same
time —a profit which some who have tried
it aver is greater than that from wheat.
Use of salt and sodium chlorate is
often advocated, but the fact is that few
men could afford to buy sufficient of
these antidotes where the weed is thick.
Lucerne and sheep are the best allies.
By the way, the tremendous increase in
the sheep population of the skeleton dis-
trict (as shown by figures of sales in
Wagga recently) indicates definite pro-
gress with the combat.
“Valerin”: In the Wagga (N.S.W.) dis-
trict excellent results in extermination
are being got by heavy and continuous
grazing with sheep. To make a thorough
job the sheep should be turned in while
the weed is in the rosette stage —when
the shoots from the parent root are flat
on the ground. When the weed grows up
sheep will chew the stalks in dry times,
but there is a risk of the tough fibre
“balling” in the stomach and causing
death.
Harvesting Lucerne.
“Albarmount”: To “Pick’s” sound
advice (B. 18 /12/ ’35) a warning might be
added that weather conditions govern
the length of time cut lucerne should
remain in the paddock. On hot' days,
Mudgee (N.S.W.) growers cut a strip in
the morning, make it and cart in the
evening. At other times it might take
up to five days to make.
Many growers err in cutting too much
at a time. Once lucerne is cut, the
sooner it can be stacked without danger
of sweating the better the hay will be.
Prime lucerne has a maximum of leaf.
The less lucerne is handled the better.
Do not toss the hay about when form-
ing cocks —this shakes off too much
leaf. Also fork the cocks top-side under
on to the waggon, and disturb their
formation as little as possible until in
position on the stack.
Rusty Hay.
“A.N.S.”: Very few farmers will make
hay of rusty wheat if a rust-free patch is
available. The contention is that rust,
which pinches the grain, must also rob
the plant of nutrition.
This is a mistake. Rust on straw actu-
ally enhances its nutritive value.
Analysis of two samples, one rusted
and one free, has shown that in rusted
straw crude protein is much richer. This
includes all the nitrogenous compounds
which repair waste, form blood and build
up muscle. In rusted straw also there
are more fat and a little less fibre.
The grain, though invariably pinched,
contains, weight for weight, a much
greater nutritive value. The higher pro-
tein content is due to a larger proportion
of bran.
Rusty hay is not unpalatable.


T^e'^xilleiz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
SDF
THE NEW
Square Toe
HAS DEFINITE ADVANTAGES.
An Abbey Model featuring a full
punched Golosh and Welted Heel.
Made in Black Box Calf and Brown
Willow Calf, and stocked in full and half
sizes.
Medium and wide fittings to every half
size.
Price: Black, 39/6; Brown, 39/6.
By far the smartest shape in
this Season’s new styles is the
long square toe.
The grace of line and the
boldness of the punched
design give this model a
definite personality.
When ordering by post please
state Size, Fitting and Color.
Also order correct Abbey
Polish, Price 6d. per tin.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address'. ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WAI2.
<rg*Ss®
B
%
4
u
2
oj
so iU °ci
■\st
- .w
itltt
fliv
rs,s
Vi >»
fl»» <4
\Yve cu
pe^ ned bS ssvr ■ • *-~ -
-kI^T
n o^
A R VuS Q
£.39» cw
V®
Co
HavW a^ QtV
o-*Srt*r*-
Harvester Care.
“Stump Jump”: Many troubles are
bound up in the comb-and-drum opera-
tion. A comb with fully dressed teeth
is vital to avoid missing ears, and it
mostly pays to buy a new set instead of
having the old one dressed. A careless
blacksmith can spoil the steel temper, so
that delays happen through broken teeth.
A complete new set often costs no more
than the price of dressing.
Beaters must be perfectly balanced.
Cracked grain, hammering when the
horses walk fast, and heavy, “vibrationy”
pulling are due to bad balance. It may
be only misalignment of the centre bear-
ing, but more often the wear on the
beaters has been uneven, and the lost
metal can be replaced only by riveting
on pieces—a first-class smith’s job.
Supple belts are far more efficient than
resinous ones. Use neatsfoot or castor
oil for this job. Ten minutes is well
spent every odd day in scraping chaff-
scale off, as this causes slip, and tension
has to be increased. An unevenly-laced
belt-joint can also cause a deal of slip.
Many men cut out a host of pinions
simply because they don’t set the teeth
closely enough. This shortens the seg-
ment’s life. Adjustment is usually done
at the main pulley-wheel bearings.
Of all the soul-searching noises, a
badly-worn set of shaker-box bearings
is the worst. They absorb power and do
not give a regular grain sample. A new
set can be bought for a song and fitted
in a half-day. The hollows in old ones
can be filled up with No. 14 or 16 wire
as a rough makeshift job.
Fit plenty of cleats or lugs to the
driving wheel. A few seconds spent
watching the amount of slip this part
can have will convince anyone that it is
well to be generous with cleats.
Drought Silage.
“Granova”: Silage enthusiasts do not
claim that silage is necessary for feeding
sheep in drought-time ; they only main-
tain that it is cheapest.
For supplementary feeding during
short dry spells, grain and hay are pref-
erable, as supplies are easily accessible
and any quantity may be used. When
opened, a pit'of silage must be fed out
regularly and quickly in order to prevent
mould.
However, N.S.W. outer district graziers
have to prepare for the old man drought
which occurs, on the average, twice in
every 10 years. For these, put down
at least 100 tons per 1000 sheep carried.
Silage is more expensive to put down
in the first instance than hay, but if
correctly pitted and covered it will re-
main perfect without attention for 20
years.
Hay deteriorates rapidly, and if it is
to be held for a number of years mouse-
proof fences have to be erected, and the
stacks have to be thatched annually.
There is always the risk of damage by
fire or floods.
Whatever other reserves are held, an
ample store of grain is essential. Grain
will carry sheep through any drought if
roughage is available, but proves expen-
sive for long periods of feeding. When
feeding silage a ration of |lb. of oats
fed on alternate days is necessary. When
rain has fallen and sheep are chasing
the green shoot, grain is essential to
prevent losses.
A Bush Gate.
“Pick”: A serviceable farm gate is
made of bush round stuff.
The top rail and latch post are forked
saplings, the fork of the rail bolted at
right angles to the stem of the latch post,
with the under branch acting as a brace.
The branches of the latch-post fork
reach the ground. The outer branch fits
against the head post, and prevents the
gate from sagging or leaning over when
shut.
The long end of the top rail is bored.
It turns on an iron pin fitted perpendicu-
larly on top of the hinge post. The hinge
post is tapered off and washered on top
to facilitate easy swinging.
Lower rails hang loosely on wires.
They push up if anything leans against
them, and animals cannot get through.
Bushfire Accident Insurance.
“Valerin”: “X.T.” (B. 4/12/’35) de-
serves a pat on the back for bringing
up the matter of protection for fighters
at a bushfire.
A few months ago in N.S.W. a reput-
able insurance co. submitted a scheme
to P.P. Boards for covering volunteer
workers generally against accident or
death. The plan was for 40 boards to
pay annually £2O each, and every volun-
teer working at a ratepayer’s fire would
be fully protected. It seemed to me a
cheap insurance and a safeguard for
both owner and firefighter.
The board I am on has control of
about 3,000,000 acres, with a roll of
2600 ratepayers —all landholders. The
scheme was denounced as “darn social-
ism.”
After a struggle I got my fellow-direc-
tors to give the plan a trial for a year.
Unfortunately, most of the other boards
turned it down cold.
Some day a landholder will get stung,
and he won’t thank the boards for par-
simony.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
A cure for warts on cows’ teats ? —9785.
There are indications that warts on cows’
teats and udders are infectious. Treatment
should be done when the cattle are dry. Large
pedicled warts may be cut off with scissors
and dried up with white lotion. For small
multiple growths, treatment is not advisable,
but if the warts interfere with milking they
may be removed by daily applications of crude
castor oil. This method requires patience, since
the oil acts slowly.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
If mother was all you say, she
deserved better than to have that sonnet
addressed to her 8.R.: “Fragment, written
while on holiday.” The sooner you return to
work the better... .F.G.S.: Can stand a
humorous race yarn with a protest climax,
but a “tragic” one—no, never! ... .L. 8.: Quite
well done, but we’re off dingo narratives....
Redfern : Neither came within coo-ee....
S.S.: At least you have the distinction of send-
ing in the first Abyssinian-war yarn
R. St. G.; Not up to standard N. 8.: No
more yarns about Fords, please... .E. 0.5.:
The ruse was a clever one, but we don’t like
the gangster type of story... .E.E.G.: It covers
beaten tracks....l.G.: Your note of tragedy
is pitched too high, and the description of the
concert is overwritten C.F.: Ran fairly
dose... . A.M.: “At Dawn,” “To a Violet,”
“To a Thrush.” Choose less-hackneyed sub-
jects... .S.W.G.E.; This homesickness for Epg-
lish piimroses and robins would be out of
place in cur pages....D.W.: We don’t accept
verses already published.... M.H.: A 14-year-
old should pay more regard to form. Later
you can experiment in bizarre verse methods
. ...E.F. (M.L.): Not suitable... .W.D.F.:
Not far off; give it a try elsewhere....
M.H.S.: Enough plot for a novel R.G.L.:
We rejoiced at the discomfiture of Pilcher,
but the yarn goes back M.L.P.: Well
stocked with that type of story... .E.G.:
Indian tennis-player with opium in handles of
his racquets not sufficiently convincing
80P and L.G.: Unsuitable... .W.W.: Not
badly written, but a string of disjointed
incidents doesn’t make a story... .A.R.C.:
It doesn’t quite make our grade C.E.:
Incident too slight to hang a yarn 0n....H.8.:
1 hat one’s scratched... .W.J. and Emel:
Not enough in it.... V.A.N.C.: Well written,
but too much padding. Short stories shouldn’t
exceed 3000 words—yours is twice that length.
G.H.A.: You got a maggie with that shot
—a bit better and the marker may signal a
bu 11... .E.S.: That type of article not for us
—it might interest a daily or Sunday paper,
... .G.R.McC.: Nothing wrong with the tell-
ing, but the plot has too many ragged edges,
....J.L. (Eng.): Only worth a par E.G.H.:
Ihe hero that rides the horse to victory and
confounds the double-dyed villain; the saving
thereby of the old family homestead, and the
winning of the beeyewtiful girl—where have
you been slumbering all these years? M.N.:
A couple of thousand words too long for a
short story.. . .W.A.: The piled-on agony
rather spoils it... .D.L.8.: Tough as fenc-
ing-wire... .Benito M.: Discharged as a first
offender. But don’t try it again... .E.M.E.:
First time we ever heard of the word wood-
pigeon being used as a term of endearment,
. ...R.J.R.: The best we can say is that you
write a beautifully legible hand E.R.M.:
It should have been returned before....
F.S.F.: Hardly up to your best form....
W.F.J.:
Maggie, to know thee is to love thee!
Round my heart a haunting memory clings
Of azure skies and whisp’ring leaves above me,
With the poise and sweep of radiant wings,
And you’ll risk an even more haunting memory,
round the head, if the bird should take a dislike
to you in nesting-time... .E.L.M.: All trades
have their tricks, but there’s no ginger in your
jingle R.C.8.; Cheap sentimentalities
L.R.D.: The drunk who “bid his wife ‘Good-
e’en’ ” hardly strikes us as being quick-witted,
Such an archaic greeting might arouse any
lady’s suspicions... .H. 8.: Five desperate
attempts to find a rhyme for platypus, and
every one a dud. You might have more luck
with “ornithorhynchus”... .G.P.: Nobody is
going to rhyme “jaws” with “doors” here.
ta a DTiQTir l t amn ikia
T ° Q
CORRESI ONDEN FS.
P.R.: Sketch that took five minutes to draw
was rejected in one minute... .A.L.G.: Didn’t
fancy the bearded wowser or the angular lady
with the gamp P.H.: “Dated” L.W.;
Abyssinian warrior will never bound across
these pages A.T.M.: No hope for the
apparently armless swagman and his three-
legged dog N. 8.: Your threat to send
us a “couple every week” causes apprehension.
. ...H.C.: But why is Billy Hughes roaming
around a bog mounted on a pair of stilts?....
C.D.: You might have drawn it with your
eyes shut C.H.T.: The small boy needs a
new head... .S.S.: Jest antiquated and sketch
wooden... .G.M.; Consigned to the dungeon
reserved for horrible examples R.W.F.:
Not one out of the dozen raised a smile
H.N.: You have a slick line, but a poor sense
of humor M.D.: A crude drawing and a
creaky gag S.S.: A mirthless idea illus-
trated by a lifeless sketch... .E.D.; The
“metho. in his madness” gag is a chestnut....
V.G.: Is the artist under 107....M.R.: Stiff
and commonplace... .H.C.R.; Hundreds of
youngsters have passed the stage at which you
have just arrived... .0.J.; Quite unlike the
person it is intended to depict....A.M.N.:
Cannot form any opinion from the microscopic
example submitted... .C.J.F.; Drawings show
promise; make your gags more concise....
W.H.: Figures look to have been constructed
out of dead matches... .N.L.D.: That Scotch
joke comes along every New Year....J.D.:
You’re slowly nearing publication 1eve1....
A.M.T.; You seem to do better with animals
—concentrate on them... .F.D.: A nicely-
drawn horse, but the rider bulges in the wrong
places W.M.; A failure this time, but try
again.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young, lady (25), Sydney, tall, public hospi-
tal nursing exp., own typewriter, can keep
books, desires appointment as receptionist.—
yy0o.
M.L. journalist (25), well educated, exp. re-
porting, cable sub-editing and leader-writing,
seeks new appointment for advancement. —
9903.
Middle-aged man, Sydney, healthy, conscien-
tious, clean, will give part-service for part-
board.—9915.
Lady typist (Sydney), own machine, wants
typing work. —9892.
Subsidised teacher, lady, N.S.W., requires
position. Refs.-^9854.
Young lady, Sydney, senior typist and tele-
phonist, wants position in city office.—9863.
Gentleman (52), Sydney, wide knowledge
business practice and accountancy, requires
part-time work, city or country—9896.
Engineering and mining blacksmith and tool-
sharpener, Sydney, many years’ exp. metal-
liferous and coal mines, knowledge steam
boilers, machinery erection and repairs, used
to oxy-acetylene, requires work. —9894.
To buy Drifting Sands of Party Politics.—
9825.
Information Sought.
Circumstances of the hooting of the late
Bob Crockett in a cricket match at Sydney ?
—9880.
Crockett was umpiring in a Test match at
Sydney in December, 1903, and gave Clem
Hill run out at 51. “Plum” Warner, who cap-
tained England, summed up the rumpus in his
book: “Hill did not say a word in protest to
Crockett, but by the way in which he walked
back to the pavilion could not have left any-
one in doubt as to what he himself thought of
Crockett’s ruling. Immediately after Hill’s re-
turn to the pavilion a perfect storm of groans
and hisses came from the members in the
pavilion, and this chorus was taken up by the
Tinkers. ’ A minute or two later I walked to
the pavilion with the intention of asking mem-
bers to desist; but instead of them listening
to me the ‘booing’ became louder than ever.
At this moment Noble, who was next in,
came from the pavilion, and we walked
together to the pitch. We sat down for a few
minutes waiting for the disturbance to sub-
side....! told him [Noble] that we would be
compelled to leave the field if the demonstra-
tion against Crockett did not cease... .Noble
advised me to go on with the game.”
* * ..: *
(1) When N.S.W. scored 918 runs v: South
Aus. in January, 1901, what records were
made ? (2) N.S.W. batsmen and scores ? (3)
How many bowled for South Aus. ? —9864.
The total of 918 was the record at that time
(it has since been surpassed with 1107 by Vic.
v. N.S.W. at Melbourne in 1926-27, and 1059
by Vic. v. Tasmania at Melbourne in 1922-
23); the victory by an innings and 605 runs
was the biggest in first-class history; five cen-
turies were made —still the world’s record;
Poidevin’s 146 was the best for a player in his
first game in inter-State cricket; there were
five partnerships of over 100 (148 for the
first wicket, 108 for the fourth, 114 for the
fifth, 105 for the seventh and 116 for the
eighth). (2) N.S.W. batsmen were V. Trumper
70, F. Iredale 118, M. A. Noble 153, A. Hop-
kins 27, Syd. Gregory 168, R. Duff 119, L.
Poidevin 146, T. Howard 64, J. Kelly 34, A.
McBeth 7, J. Marsh 1; sundries 17. (3) Nine.
* * * *
(1) How old was Bob Fitzsimmons when
he won the world’s heavyweight championship
from Jim Corbett ? (2) Where and when did
the fight take place, and how did Fitzsimmons
win ? (3) Where and when was Fitzsimmons
born ? (4) Where and when did he die ? —
9931.
(1) 34. (2) At Carson City (U.S.A.), on
March 17, 1897. Fitzsimmons knocked Cor-
bett out in 14 rounds. (3) Helston, Cornwall,
June 4, 1862. (4) Portland, Oregon, October
23, 1917.
* * * *
(1) Does Bep van Klaveren stand high in
American boxing rating ? (2) Is Carroll likely
to get a fight for the world’s welterweight
championship ? (3) If so, what chance will
he have of winning it ? —9873.
(1) He is third on the October “Ring” wel-
terweight ratings, world’s champion Barney Ross
being No. 1; Jimmy McLarnin, who lost the
title to Ross, No. 2. (2) Charlie Lucas is now
negotiating with Ross for a world’s cham-
pionship match with Carroll under his direc-
tion. (3) A good chance.
* * * *
Names of the originals of the characters in
‘‘We of the Never Never”; which of them are
dead and which alive ? —9598.
The author, Mrs. .Eneas Gunn, kindly sup-
plies the following particulars: The Wag (Con-
stable Kingston) died in 1907 at the Katherine,
of malaria; Neaves’s Mate (Jack Brown, of
Yeovils), died of thirst on the Tanami-road,
six miles from Coomario, February, 1909;
Tam-a’Shanter (Jock McPhee) died of exhaus-
tion within a few yards of water on the Wil-
leroo-to-Katherine route in 1910; Fizzer (Henry
V. Pockham), was drowned while attempting to
cross the Victoria River ford with mails on the
Katherine-to-Victoria Downs mail route, April
17, 1911; Our Eastern Neighbor (Pierce E.
Smith), died at Moss Vale as a result of an
accident while mustering cattle in 1911; Dan,
the Head Stockman (David Suttie), died sud-
denly in his midday camp on the roadside be-
tween Wyndham and the Ord River station;
Highland Mac (Archie McPherson) died in
Queensland about 1916; Little Johnny (Thomas
Wakelin) was drowned while attempting to
cross pack teams over the Concrete Ford of
the King River, Northern Territory, January
4, 1924; Happy Dick (Jack Jager) died at
Springvale station, Katherine River, 1930; San-
guine Scot (John McLennan) died at Katherine
River, May 3, 1933 ; Horse Teams (Jack Grant)
died in roadside camp, Maude Creek, 1932;
Sick Mac (Jack McGowan) died A.I.M. Hostel,
Alice Springs, July, 1934. Ah Cheon was last
heard from in Hong Kong in 1922. He was
then “growing old” by his own report. The
following, whose real names are withheld by
Mrs. Gunn, are still alive: The Dandy and
the Quiet Stockman, both at Angaston (S.A.);
Mine Host and Man in Charge, both at Adel-
aide; and Burly Bushman, at Brock’s Creek
(N.T.).
* * *
How are synthetic rubies and diamonds
made ? —9860.
For rubies, pure iron-free ammonium alum
is mixed with a little chrome alum, and the
whole precipitated in warm aqueous solution
by ammonia. The product is air-dried, dehy-
drated at red heat, and the powder fused in a
reducing blowpipe flame. For diamonds, pow-
dered. quartz 100 parts, red lead 157 parts,
caustic potash 54 parts, boric acid 5 parts,
white arsenic i-part, well mixed together,
melted in a covered pot and stirred until the
metal becomes too stiff for stirring. It is next
annealed, the pot is broken up and the frag-
ments of “strass” are cut to shapes desired.
* * * *
(1) To what Australian military units do the
following color-patches belong : (a) Purple
circle ? (b) purple diamond, (c) red-and-blue
oval ? (2) Can members of the A.M.F. who
served with the A.I.F. overseas wear miniature
color-patches of their old unit ? —9858.
(1) (n) 4th Div. Engineers, (£>) 2nd Div.
Engineers, (c) 3rd Div. Artillery. (2) Yes.
These may be worn on the sleeve-head, £in.
from the top and immediately above the
A.M.F. unit colors.
* * * * ,
With what 12 foreign countries trading with
us does the trade balance most favor Aus-
tralia, and with what 12 foreign countries
trading with us is the trade balance most
unfavorable to us ? —9845.
Country. Imp. from. Exp. to. Fav. Bal.
Belgium .... £447,864 £6,080,381 £4,376,732
China 364,127 2,472,262 1,609,735
Egypt 13,967 639,654 496,735
France 862,147 4,731,952 2,915,859
Italy 557,438 995,827 237,633
Japan 4,624,740 12,095,514 5,032,357
Manchuria,
including
Kwantung
Peninsula.. 3,906 1,613,775 1,284,538
Netherlands.. 504,573 927,723 236,124
N. Caledonia 5,557 199,025 153,345
Philippine Is. 79,885 324,053 178,840
Poland .... 38,359 638,901 471,742
Spain 164,313 559,912 . 282,722
Country. Imp. from. Exp. to. Unfav. Bal.
Argentina .. £167,903 £9,031 £160,693
Czecho-
slovakia .. 353,796 103,988 270,772
Finland .... 143,301 48,338 104,708
Germany .. 2,145,315 1,738,481 757,306
Mexico .... 163,951 9,468 156,392
N. East Indies 4,390,327 1,186,023 3,443,397
Norway .... 382,671 7,439 376,732
Persia 332,391 153 332,269
Rumania .. 125,347 Nil 125,347
Sweden .... 828,283 240,751 636,067
Switzerland .. 462,023 196,265 305,324
U.S.A 11,041,660 2,757,935 8,839,709
(Figures are for 1934-35. Imports and
balances are expressed in British currency; ex-
ports in Australian currency.)
Is it a fact that in the early days a whale
overturned a boat in Sydney Harbor, causing
loss of life ? —9920.
Yes. In 1790 a midshipman and three sailors
of the Sirius were returning up Sydney Harbor
in a boat when a whale rose so near them as
to nearly swamp them. It rose a second time,
underneath the boat, capsizing it, and three of
the occupants were drowned.
Are Chinkapook, Billabong, Wyuna, Myola
and Nandaly aboriginal names ? If so, what
are their meanings ? —9859.
Billabong means creek or river in native
dialect; Wyuna, the name given to plains near
Brewarrina, N.S.W., means clear water. The
other names given are not listed in any vocabu-
lary of aboriginal names available. A word
closely resembling Myola is Myologun, mean-
ing sunrise.
* ie * *
Names of the steamers comprising the pas-
senger fleet of the Port Jackson and Manly
Steamship Cos., the date each was built and
their respective tonnage and carrying capacity ?
—9840.
Burra Bra, built 1908, 458 tons, 1448 pas-
sengers; Bellubera, built 1910, 500 tons, 1500
passengers; Balgowlah, built 1912, 500 tons,
1528 passengers; Barrenjoey, built 1913, 500
tons, 1520 passengers; Baragoola, built 1922,
500 tons, 1523 passengers; Dee Why, built
1928, 800 tons, 1600 passengers; and Curl
Curl, built 1928, 800 tons, 1600 passengers.
* * * *
How is the Greek word for orange pro-
nounced, and how did the word get into the
Greek language ? —9672.
It is pronounced “portokali.” It is reputed
that the orange was native to Spain and Por-
tugal. According to Greek mythology, Her-
cules was sent to Western Europe to steal the
Golden Apples (oranges). He succeeded, and,
passing back through the Gibraltar Straits, he
built there the Herculean Pillars as a mark of
his exploits. During the early Middle Ages
the Portuguese, being a seafaring people, were
in touch with Greek waters in the Near East,
and they brought there oranges which the
Greeks named Portugal or portokali, as there
is no G in the Greek alphabet.
* * % *
Is there a Rosicrucian Society ( A.M.0.R.C .)
in Australia ? What is the address of the
nearest or any branch of it, and is it con-
nected with the A.M.O.R.C. of San Jose, Cali-
fornia ? —9546.
The American organisation has a branch in
Sydney. Particulars may be obtained from the
local representative, 52 Fletcher-street, Bondi,
N.S.W.
:;< * * *
(1) What is asafeetida ? (2) How is tincture
of asafeetida manufactured ? —9847.
(1) It is an oleo-gum-resin obtained by in-
cision from the living rhizome and root of
Ferula feetida regal or other species of Ferula.
(2) The British Pharmacopoeia gives the follow-
ing instructions: Asafeetida, bruised, 200
grammes, alcohol sufficient to produce 1000
millilitres. Macerate the asafeetida in a closed
vessel with 750 millilitres of alcohol for seven
days, shaking occasionally; filter, pass sufficient
alcohol through the filter to produce the re-
quired volume. All alcohol 70 p.c.
* -f * $
How can malarial mosquitoes be recognised ?
—9901.
In the malarial type the biting part (pro-
boscis) and the length of the body are in line
with each other, so that the insect looks like
a straight, slender splinter supported by the
legs. Ordinary mosquitoes have the biting part
bent at an angle, the body being more or less
parallel with the surface on which the insect is
resting. Malarial mosquitoes have spotted
wings, which are unusual in the other types of
mosquitoes. They breed in clear, more or less
stationary water, especially where there is pro-
tection afforded by vegetation. The wrigglers
can be readily distinguished from those of ordi-
nary mosquitoes for they lie almost horizon-
tal immediately below the surface of the
water when they come up to breathe, whereas
in the other types of mosquitoes the head end
hangs downwards.
■-? * * *
Best way to make a dampeourse to prevent
any moisture coming through a concrete floor
in a grain-and-chaff shed built on clay soil ?
—9846.
The clay should be excavated to a depth of
6in. and agricultural drain pipes of 4in.
diameter should be laid in the excavation and
covered with clinker, which should be well
rammed. The drain pipes should be slanted
so that any water entering the clinker bed will
be drained away. Make the concrete floor 6in.
thick, one part of cement, parts of sand and
four parts of broken stone.
* * * *
(1) Where in Sydney can I obtain a copy
of Australian Bills of Exchange Act ? (2)
Cost ? (3) Similar information in regard to
the English Bills of Exchange Act? —9885.
(1) From the Inquiry Office, Sub-Treasury,
Fifth Floor, Commonwealth Bank Building,
Martin-place. (2) Is. 3d. (3) Copies are not
available in Sydney, but the subject is dealt
with in Charlesworth’s Mercantile Law, obtain-
able from the Law Book Cos., 140 Phillip-
street, Sydney, 12s. 6d.
* * *• *
How is psittacosis (parrot fever) contracted
by humans, arid what are the symptoms ?
9818.
It is contracted by way of the mouth. The
infection usually develops in bronchial con-
gestive type. Symptoms are in the first place
similar to an influenza cold; headache, nose-
bleeding, fever, gastric disturbance and bron-
chial faults are possible. The latter may initi-
ate a definite bronchial pneumonia. Sore
throat and vague body pains must be treated.
Although the disease usually lasts from two
to three weeks, convalescence is protracted and
tedious owing to physical prostration. Medical
supervision is required until recovery is com-
plete. The Health Department states that no
cases have occurred in Sydney to date. Re-
search on the disease is made at the Walter
and Eliza Hall Research Institute, Melbourne.
* * * *
Medicinal value of ML. spinach, silver-beet
spinach and the ordinary variety ? —9763.
All varieties of the vegetable are a good
means of introducing iron into the system.
The ordinary sort is coarse and darker than
either M.L. or silver-beet spinach, and the
leaves only can be used, but the properties are
similar in each case. Apart from being easily
digested, spinach demands respect for its
mineral content, and is advised in gout and
rheumatism, obesity, epilepsy, anaemia and con-
stipation. - Ash percentage is 1.6, four times
that of the tomato and twice that of the
carrot. Percentage analysis of the ash is iron
3.4, potassium 16.6, sodium 35.3, calcium 11.9,
magnesium 6.4, phosphorus 10.2, sulphur 6.9,
silica 4.5 (all as oxides) and chlorine 6.3. As
with other green vegetables, the food value of
spinach is small, but the vitamin A content
equals that of egg-yolk or butter. It also con-
tains vitamins B and C to an extent almost
equal to fresh lemon juice.
# * * *
Symptoms of colitis; cause and cure ? Any
special diet necessary ? —9762.
Colitis is a chronic disorder of the large
intestine occurring as an intestinal catarrh;
symptoms may be acute, chronic or ulcerative.
In acute catarrhal colitis the large bowel is
not involved alone, the colitis being but part
of a general gastro-enteritis. The causes are
improper feeding, especially in the case of
children, the taking of unripe fruit or over-
eating, and bacterial poisons generated in con-
taminated foods. Septic conditions of the
mouth (carious teeth, pyorrhoea, etc.) and ap-
pendix inflammation are possibilities that
demand investigation. Water should be boiled
if not of certain purity, and a simple diet is
indicated. Milk, meat soups with fat removed,
porridge, ground rice, arrowroot, eggs (boiled
but not fried), fish and brains are suitable
while definite symptoms persist. A bismuth
mixture may be prescribed.
$ ' $ $ 3 s
(1) Is sarsaparilla efficacious for relieving
blood pressure ? (2) Does sarsaparilla make
blood or thin it ? (3) What sort is most suit-
able medicinally ? (4) What is blood pressure ?
—9695.
(1) Unless prescribed with other medica-
ments, such as potassium iodide, sarsaparilla
has no definite value in the treatment of blood
pressure. (2) Has no effect either way. Its
supposed efficacy is largely due to the action
of drugs with which it is combined. (3) The
crushed root or leaves as retailed would suit
your purpose as herbal treatment in skin dis-
order's. Make an infusion of loz. to the pint
of boiling water; strain off the cooled liquid
for use. A wineglass of the latter may be taken
thrice daily after meals. (4) Blood pressure is
defined as the expansive force exerted upon
walls of the blood-vessels by their contents.
There are many factors that influence excessive
pressure —arterial degeneration is usual in
senile cases.
Brief Answers.
A.M.F.: Not aware of its abolition, and can
find no evidence that it has been abolished.
. ...V.N.C.: (1) Yes. (2) As the policy is in
the husband’s name and the insurance on his
life, it would not be affected by the wife’s death
whether she made a will or not N.Z.;
Medical examination advised. It is possible
that seasonal change causes arterial tension that
precipitates head pain. Eat simple, non-heating
foods, fresh fruit and vegetables, and take a
mild saline in warm water each morning. Avoid
cold showers and body chill. The menthol
cone gives relief as a local analgesic N.S.J.:
Potassium citrate is a useful diuretic; it is
freely prescribed as a corrective in the acid
excess of kidney troubles, pyelitis and such
disorders. Gout affections also benefit from
its use. The adult dose is from 10 to 30
grains, in water, twice or thrice daily. Keep
the salt in a dry, airtight container, or make
a solution (1 in 2) with distilled water
F.C.P.: J. J. Hardie has written three novels,
Cattle Camp, Lantana and The Bridle Track.
The last-named will be serialised in The Bulle-
tin.... FI.P.: Percentage of votes recorded to
electors enrolled at the 1927 N.S.W. State elec-
tion was 82.54; in 1930 it was 94.94; in 1932
it was 96.39; and in 1935 it was 95.85....
D.G.L.: Walnut juice cannot be purchased as
a commercial line. If required for a stain
obtain the fresh, green fruit (April). The juice
is pressed from the encasing shell P.H.S.:
Write Ofircer-in-Charge, Correspondence
Courses, Sydney Technical College, Ultimo,
Sydney J.M.L.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for pamphlet,
“Mushroom Culture” E.J.H.: Write D. H.
V. Mair, secretary, Insurance Brokers’ Assoc.,
care Robinson and Mitchell, Ltd., 26 Bridge-
street, Sydney... .J.G.: For registration as a
masseur in Queensland apply to the Registrar,
Nurses and Masseurs’ Registration Board, Bris-
bane; for repognition in N.S.W. apply to the
Australasian Massage Association, 185 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney.... J.F.T.: At current prices
of copra it is difficult to work small plantation
properties at a profit, and such properties are
therefore unsaleable for cash A.R.: No data
on the subject. The lecturer-in-charge, Tanning
School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney, sug-
gests that you send a few skins to him so that
he might conduct experiments and report result
to you... .J.E.B.: Method too long and tech-
nical to describe in our columns. Consult
Amateur Telescope Making, published by the
Scientific American Publishing Co F.A.B.:
Miles Mander, care National Studios, Ltd.,
Milson-street, Pagewood, Sydney A.M.B.:
(1) No. (2) Yes, from April 10 to the night
of June 1-2, 1918 D.J.M.L.: Cannot say
without inspection C.A.M.I.: (1) Depends
upon the receipt you are asked to sign. Most
papers purchase full copyright and grant repub-
lication rights provided acknowledgment is
made. (2) Not strictly illegal but most un-
ethical unless you inform them what you had
done. (3) Any leading bookseller... .J.D.F.:
Can obtain no authoritative list... .J.P.R.:
Westralian State batteries make provision
in their regulations to take the crushing
charges out of the bullion recovered if pay-
ment is not made in cash. This practice is
universally adopted at private batteries. Whether
it is legal or not depends upon the nature of
the contract between battery owner and cus-
tomer. .. .C.J.H.: (1) The basic invention, with-
out giving full details of construction, can be
provisionally protected for a period of nine
months. (2) A full specification making refer-
ence to the drawings and ending with claiming
clauses must be lodged. The specification and
drawings must be prepared in accordance with
the rules prescribed. It is advisable to con-
sult a patent attorney; see advertisements on
“Wild Cat” pages... .T.P.A.: Wonder Animals
of Australia (2s. 6d.) and Wonder Birds of
Australia (2s. 6d.), both obtainable from lead-
ing booksellers R.G.: Depends upon the
agreement between you, your agent and the
bank. Exchange is payable on the net amount
realised in the United Kingdom, and the owner
of the butter should expect to receive the full
amount. Can’t express an opinion as to the
new arrangement without an examination of
the agreement and the documents relating to
the transactions... .E.J.J.: The data required
can be obtained in “West Australian Timber
Tests, 1906,” by G. A. Julius. This publication
can be consulted at the nearest public library,
or inquiry might be made from the Govern-
ment Printer, Perth, to ascertain whether the
publication is still available... .W.A.G.: If
when judgment was given against you the Court
allowed costs and the summons was included
in such costs you will have to pay, but not
otherwise. Personal service is not always re-
quired, as where your last-known address does
not find you K.C.K.: You are apparently
a tenant-at-will. You may remove all fixtures
and materials which have been placed merely
upon the ground but not driven into it, and
thus becoming part of the landlord’s property.
Payment of a nominal rent would not, in this
respect, place you in any better position....
A.H.: A copy may be - obtained on application
to the Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Cost depends on
length... .J.R.: Examination is necessary for
diagnosis. Location suggests gland swelling
from a septic tonsil. Goitre is improbable.
.... R.N.L.: George Coppin was three times
elected to the Vic. Upper House and three
times elected M.L.A. for East Melbourne.
He was never knighted... .L.J.: Applications
for enlistment should be submitted to the
Secretary, Air Board, Defence Department,
Melbourne H.L.W.; Get in touch with the
Deputy-Director of Navigation, Customs House,
Sydney... .L.G.: (1) and (2) Write W. H.
Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Sydney. (3)
Swedish Recreative Exercises for School and
Playground (6s. 3d.)... .A.J.S.: (1) Wash the
hair well in hot, soapy water, and dry in a
shady place with a breeze. Then twist it into
long strands and wind round a rather thin
stick; tie to keep in place, and plunge in very
hot water for a few seconds. Place in the sun
to dry, then gently slip the hair off the stick
and lightly tease it. Professional methods are
different, but unsuitable for home treatment.
(2) Try Anthony Hordern and Sons, Brickfield
Hill, Sydney P.C.: The answer is that you
did not comply with the requirements of Regu-
lation 22; and that the penalty has been pro-
perly charged in accordance with Section 53 of
the Act. Recovery can be effected under the
powers given in the Act for collection of tax
due A.A.: (1) With either pyelitis or a
general nephritis, home treatment is out of
question. A doctor should be consulted. (2)
Vaccine treatment is of little avail in chronic
mastoiditis. Surgical attention is necessary
(Many others mailed.)


MOKE-OH!
M. Laval has been accused of facing
both ways. Well, there’s nothing like
living up to your name.
•b
A Rash Experiment.
It was the worst traffic jam the city
had ever seen. At the intersection cars
were turned sideways, backwards and
frontwards, while for miles back along
each street there were waiting vehicles
and angry drivers. It looked a hopeless
mess.
Hours after when the tangle had been
sorted out the weary police inspector re-
marked to a colleague, “We’ll never do
that again.”
“Never do what?” he was asked.
“Put a constable who’s a keen fisher-
man on traffic duty. An angler friend of
his drove past in a car, and they started
to argue.”
Ced.
»I« -I- -I* 'b
“ ‘I intend to be married in London,’ says a
Hollywood film star.”
Someone ought to warn her that mar-
riage is regarded somewhat seriously in
British countries.
b 4* b b
“The boxes of fruit varied in size, according
to the seasons.”— “Age.”
Circumstances alter cases.
b 4* 4* 4*
“In every calling appearances are every-
thing.”—“Herald.”
No fear! In some criminal callings
disappearances are everything.
“ ‘Australia may be charged with criminal
neglect if it fails to fill its unoccupied spaces,’
says a political writer.”
We should certainly prepare our
defence.
Little-known Facts About Italy.
This country’s chief industry is the
singing of grand opera. Its economic
importance may be gauged from the fact
that profound bassos, robust tenors and
coloratura sopranos now lead lemons
and castor oil for first place among
exports. Through a recent discovery by
Professor Funiculi Funicula, a valuable
by-product of this great primary indus-
try will, it is expected, make Italy inde-
pendent of foreign coal supplies. It will
take the form of a great highbrow electric
scheme, the enormous vocal vibration
set up by the millions of students en-
deavoring to reach high C being har-
nessed for the motive power.
Success on the high Cs has contributed
in no small way to Italy’s rapid rise to
naval power.
The national emblem —and the coun-
try’s chief fruit, flower, vegetable, scent,
pick-me-up and anaesthetic, as well as
its first line of defence—is the garlic.
A project to evolve a higher-powered
garlic to save pressure on the war-
gas factories failed owing to the
asphyxiation of the entire technical
staff whilst conducting the work of graft-
"Not that one, auntie — that's a dumper .”
ing the garlic on to the Ferula asafce-
tida.
Venice’s chief claim to historical im-
portance is due to its being the city in
which the first go-getting estate agent
plied his trade. It was Signor Allota
Beloni who gave the lead to realtors
the world over by selling the first water
frontage on the Grand Canal. Vene-
tians being partial to deep-water front-
ages, Boloni made history by using a
telescopic rod to convince the purchaser
that there was 18ft. of water instead of
18in. Another great service he did to
unborn realty corsairs was to advertise
a block as being “seven minutes from
St. Mark’s Piazza.” He meant the dif-
ference in lime, travelling due east. The
block was eventually calculated by a
navigator to be in the middle of the
Black Sea, under 300 fathoms.
Spaghetti is manufactured in various
lengths according to conditions of con-
sumption. When eaten at sea level it
is limited to sft. lengths, or the average
height of a man’s face from the ground.
As the ground rises it gets longer, and
in the higher Alps it can be eaten in its
natural state. The annual spaghetti-
eating contests take place on the Matter-
horn. Champions have been known to
give as much as two furlongs’ start to
the limit men and win. Ingurgitation
by the “suction and inhaling” method, so
favored in restaurants, is barred.
S. W. K.
Following the “Herald's” Advice.
“Butter is of great importance to Australia;
Australians should make a study of it.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
This struck me as a good idea. I was
badly in need of a study, even if it was
only for some quiet place where I could
drink my beer without having to share
the bottle with someone.
It seemed an expensive and messy job
to me from the start, but I was willing
to give it a try; and in any case the
butter was got on credit.
. Early it occurred to me that butter
wasn’t the right material for the floor.
It is slippery to stand on, and as every
time I fell I went right through the walls
I became very greasy and unpleasant, as
well as irritated. This, of course, was
after I had found how to keep the roof
up by reinforcing it with boards.
It wasn’t very much of a study even
when it was made. I found that, as the
heat of the interior grew, drops of grease
began to drip from the roof. My hair
and clothes got in a shocking condition.
In a few days, too, the place began to
give off a nasty rancid smell.
But by that time a lot of the walls had
disappeared. When I went down at night
I found all the cats in the neighborhood
having a lick at it. The dogs seemed to
have a taste in the same direction. The
only real satisfaction I got out of the
place was when the T.P. man called about
the furniture instalments. I took him
into the study. He has a habit of put-
ting his hand against the wall and lean-
ing against it. When I went out and
helped to scrape the butter from his new
suit he was quite annoyed.
No, the “Herald” has made a mistake
somewhere. Perhaps it meant butter-
boxes. I have made quite a good study
of butter-boxes, all the better because
the wife is afraid to enter it for fear the
roof will fall on her head.
Anyway, she says that when I pay for
the butter I am to get coupons. She
will then have enough to get a glass
butter-dish.
We’re still using a broken saucer.
H. M.
•J* *!• >£« •£•
The Vision.
At first the stretch of beach with its
hundreds of bathers and holiday-makers
had scarcely interested him. Now, as he
examined the scene more closely, he dis-
covered to his amazement that the people
were dressed in a style that must have
been in vogue at least 30 years ago. The
bathers, he observed, wore thick neck-to-
ankle costumes and various other encum-
brances which flapped grotesquely about
them.
He rubbed his eyes in astonishment.
This was 1936, and yet
Had he been transported back into the
early 1900 s by some strange Time
Machine, or was it all a bad dream?
No, the explanation was quite simple.
He was merely looking at one of the
Tourist Bureau pictures in a Victorian
railway carriage! G J H
Tasmania Resurgent.
“Lord Apsley has suggested that Tasmania
should be handed over to Britain and used for
migration on a big scale, the migrants later
moving to Australia.”
The idea seems to be that the immi-
grants will be temporary residents of
Tassie —transplanted Englishmen who are
not quite ready to become Australians ;
something like Maeterlinck’s Children
Who Are Not Yet Born.
1 am prepared to co-operate with Lord
Apsley in putting the plan into practice.
It will be necessary first of all to get rid
of all un-British industries in the island.
Hops, apples and potatoes may remain,
but Tatt.’s, being distinctly un-British,
must go. All persons dependent on the
industry will be given employment in
Sydney (State Blottery), Brisbane (Golden
Brisket) and Adelaide (Betting Shops).
Tasmania being thus entirely depopu-
lated at one fell swoop will be ready to
receive its new citizens, who will tem-
porarily be called Pommyranians.
Our first concern will be to ensure
that every newcomer feels quite at home.
There must be no nostalgia. It will there-
fore be useless to pick out, say, a Kentish
villager or a Hampshire hamleteer. He
would feel homesick without his friends.
No, the whole population of the village
(or hamlet) must come, too, including
the squire, the vicar and the village
idiot.
Everyone will then feel quite at home,
or would but for the strangeness of the
houses. This would spoil everything, so
the whole village (or hamlet) will be
brought out also —each stone and each
stick, every cobble and brick, from the
top of the church steeple down to the
cellar of the Pig and Whistle.
Then everyone’ll be happy, except that
the adjoining villages (and hamlets)
whither they have been wont to wander
at week-ends, won’t be there to wander
to. Homesickness in big waves will
ensue, or would but for the fact that
we’ll bring out those adjoining villages
(and hamlets), too, and the villages (and
hamlets) that adjoin them also.
Impossible? . . . Nonsense! What
about Captain Cook’s cottage? The
whole thing will be done, without even
interrupting the season’s nine-pins com-
petitions.
I realise that Farmer Higgins will occa-
sionally want to drive over to the near-
est market town. We’ll shift that, too.
Of course, most villagers (and ham-
leteers) look forward to a trip “oop ta
Lunnon” now and then, so London will
have to be brought to Tassie. In fact, to
cut a long story short, we’ll transplant
England, lock, stock and barrel. The
present site has never been very satis-
factory—it’s too near to Scotland.
At this stage Lord Apsley and I will
probably part company. He’ll want to
transplant the transplanted Pommy-
ranians to Australia, and I won’t agree,
because it will look as though we’ve just
been making a convenience of Tassie.
Also the Pommyranians will by this time
be ardent and enthusiastic Tasmanians,
and there is nobody more difficult to deal
with than an a. and e. Tasmanian.
“Let sleeping dogs lie,” I’ll say. “You’ve
got ’em this far. Be satisfied.” I feel
sure he’ll object and we’ll quarrel
violently. Australia will probably secede
from Tasmania, Joe Lyons will be de-
ported as a prohibited immigrant, Test
matches will be abandoned and there’ll
be sanctions on Cascade beer.
On second thoughts I won’t co-operate
with Lord Apsley at all. If he wants
any assistance he’ll have to ask Mr.
Ogilvie and Major Douglas.
Jasby.
>%
His Own Medicine.
“Sorry, sir,” said my barber’s assistant.
“Can’t cut your hair to-day, sir. Boss’s
funeral! ”
“Good heavens,” I gasped. “What hap-
pened to your boss —still a young man,
in the prime of life, always healthy.”
“Yes, sir,” the assistant agreed ; “but
quick in the temper. He was shaving
himself yesterday when he was in a real
hurry. He got so fed up with listening
to himself talking about things he didn’t
want to hear, that he made a slash at
himself with the razor. Cut his throat,
poor beggar. Come in again to-morrow,
sir.”
SEF.
He-men.
“While the crowd cheered ‘Ghost,’ the mys-
tery wrestler, Lurich knelt on the floor, beating
his hands, and burst into tears.”
What-ho ! for the he-man whose masses
of muscle
In knotted profusion proclaim he is
“bound,”
Who savagely glares when commencing
the tussle
To see which contestant is finally
crowned.
The fans all look on with a goggle-eyed
wonder
At big hairy chests and gorilla-like
wrists;
They hope to see one pull the other
asunder,
Or else be knocked cold by those
huge, crushing fists.
But such a finality scarce can be looked
for,
These matmen to urgings vocif’rous
are deaf ;
Just a nice little cry demonstrates he is
“cooked,” for
He’ll blubber: “See [sniff] what he did
to me, ref. !”
QUAYEAU.
The Mentor.
He took his son by the shoulders.
“My boy,” he said earnestly. “I hear
you’ve been drinking. Well, I don’t wish
to chastise you—l just want to appeal
to your commonsense.
“The greatest villain in the world was
the man who first discovered alcohol!
And the greatest mistake any man can
make is to drink the muck!
“It ruins you in mind and body;
wrecks your nerves; shatters your
morals; weakens your will; stains your
character ; wastes your money ; shortens
your life, and does a thousand other
destructive things.
“It may stimulate you for a minute or
two, but it always has a deadly, in-
sidious reaction.
“I want you to remember every word
I’ve spoken.”
“I will, father,” said the youth
solemnly, and he left the room, medi-
tating.
As his footsteps receded along the hall,
the old man sighed, “Thank heavens
that’s over!”—and reached thirstily for
the whisky decanter.
T.W.N.
Depreciation.
Oh, heavens! What a fool I’ve been!
To think that I, who strive to make
My intellect so sharp and keen,
Should fall for such a clear mistake !
Henceforth I’ll make no vain pretence
Of being wise through all my life;
For I’ve disgraced my commonsense :
I tried to reason with my wife !
NAT.


Jk
m
il
>V» C ® '
HAliiiN
SPARKING PLUGS
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
••SU VER
EDGE 1 *
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
HERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
1 does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be refined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BFLACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep,: JOHV ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
EXHAUST-VALVE ALLOYS.
INFLUENCE UPON RELIABILITY AND
OPERATING COSTS.
BY FRED BERRY.
C NGINEERS, metallurgists and designers have during the last
■*—' few years collaborated in an endeavor to produce a motor
which, whilst satisfying requirements so far as performance is
concerned, will at the same time with reasonable care endure
for a long life, wear of cylinders, pistons and bearings being
reduced to the smallest possible degree. In this article details
are given of the research that has been devoted to the improve-
ment of valves, and some advice is offered as to the cure of
valve troubles.
Since, the very early days of motoring
the wear factor of cylinder bores and
reciprocating units has been a source of
expense to motorists, and for many years
rebores and renewal of main and big-
end bearings at from 15,000 to 25,000
miles were the rule rather than the
exception.
In the modern car extremely hard iron
alloys are used for cylinder blocks, bear-
ing loads are relatively light, crankshafts
are balanced statically and dynamically
Sticking valves are caused by tarry
deposit accumulating on exposed stem
beneath head (see text).
and usually fitted with some type of
vibration damper, whilst the practice of
casting the upper half of the crankcase
integral with cylinders, together, with
lateral webbing from the housings of the
main bearings, provides a solid setting
for the crankshaft, prevents whip and
torsional vibration and so reduces wear
to an absolute minimum.
So it will be found that, provided suit-
able grades of oil and gas are used, oil
changed at frequent intervals and filters
maintained in efficient condition, engines
fitted to cars manufactured since ’33 may
be expected to run from 60,000 to 100,000
miles without reboring or replacing main
bearings. Motor failure in these cars
must therefore almost invariably be due
to defects in the ignition system. The
only remaining mechanical weakness
appears to be in valves and valve gear,
and on this particular subject, which is
of great importance to motor-owners,
the Ethyl Gasoline Corporation has done
considerable research work and provided
valuable and interesting data.
When engines of low speed and low
output were generally used, the material
of which valves were made did not
greatly matter, as the duty of the exhaust
valve was comparatively light. The
movement was not rapid, pounding and
surging were not encountered, and the
amount of heat to which the valve was
exposed and which it was required to
dissipate was not great. Materials such
as cast-iron, steel, nickel steel and mild
alloys gave satisfactory results.
Hot Motors.
With the advent of high-powered high-
compression motors, the conditions under
which exhaust valves are required to
function have changed radically. Because
of the higher engine speeds mechanical
stresses have increased enormously.
Pounding and the consequent loss of
accurate tappet clearance have intensi-
fied the duties imposed upon the valves,
whilst increased working temperature
has meant failure unless suitable
materials are used.
Reduction of valve noise added further
complications, so that in modern engines
we are faced with the problem of fitting
valves that have great mechanical
strength and the ability to dissipate heat
at very high temperatures.
Owing to the cooling effect of the
incoming gases on each suction stroke,
the operating temperature of the inlet
valve is considerably lower than that of
the exhaust, and consequently satisfac-
tory results can still be obtained by using
plain carbon steels, although usually
chrome-nickel, V alloy, or tungsten is
pressed into service in order to resist the
corrosive influence of low-grade or
inferior fuels.
A brief review of at-
tempts to solve the
exhaust-valve prob-
lem will reveal to
motorists the im-
portance of the work
of metallurgists, who
have produced steel
alloys which, subjected
continuously to terrific flame tempera-
tures and enormous physical stresses,
wear almost indefinitely without warping,
sealing, pitting or rusting.
Valve Steels.
During this process of evolution from
“flabby” low-revving engines to “hot”
high-compression types, the first notable
change in valve steel was in the use of
tungsten. A high percentage of tungsten
gave a steel that had great mechanical
strength at high temperatures, but its
resistance to scaling and corrosion was
poor, and in service frequent burning and
pitting were encountered. Endeavors
were then made to develop a steel equally
as strong as tungsten but incorporating
rust- and heat-resisting qualities, and a
series of alloys involving the use of
silicon and chromium was evolved. First
experiments using as a base a 0.20 p.c.-
0.5 C p.c. cai bon steel alloyed with very
small amounts of silicon and chromium,
whilst slightly better than previous types,
were still lacking in certain essentials.
Ol a T, ecent experiments using a 0.35
p.c.-0.50 p.c. carbon steel alloyed with
tiom p.c. to 3.75 p.c. silicon, 7 p.c
to 9 p.c. chromium and 0.30 p.c. to 0.50
p.c. manganese resulted in the now-
familiar silicrome No. 1. Valves of this
material give satisfactory service in prac-
tically all high-performance cars of
to-day. They possess excellent strength
at all temperatures are quite resistant to
rusting, burning and pitting, and are onlv
slightly susceptible to corrosion, even
when inferior or unsuitable fuels are
used
„ ' . . ,
Ot compai atiyely recent development,
and used extensively m aviation engines,
is the nichrome alloy. It is a steel con-
‘aining from 20 p.c to 40 pc. of nickel
and from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. of chromium.
~., , . .
Of all valve materials known nichrome
Jf t 0 corrosion and
heat, but hqffi pioduction costs, extreme
ai ness ano consequent difficulties in
machimng have somewhat limited its
geneial use.
Fewer Overhauls.
As a direct result of the splendid
achievement of the metallurgists, motor-
ists using modern cars have forgotten
mechanical worries brought about by
broken or warped valves, and, where in
the past a valve grind was essential every
5000 miles if the engine were required
to maintain its normal power output,
most cars will now keep in tune after
the first top overhaul for from 30,000 to
50,000 miles without further worry or
attention.
There is still a possibility of the engine
failing to keep up to its work by reason
of sticking valves—usually exhaust—and
The trend of Continental design. A “Motor”
impression of the new one-and-a-half litre Fiat
chassis, with centralised girder amidships from
which channels extend front and rear. Front wheels are independently sprung.
the causes and cure in such cases should
be of interest to all drivers.
When an exhaust valve fails to close
properly in its cycle of operation it is
owing either to warping (a most unlikely
contingency if the new alloys are used)
or to the stems being so tight in the
guides that the spring is unable to pull
the valve down on its seat in sufficient
time to seal the combustion chamber on
compression. A valve even slightly off
its seating on the explosion cycle will
soon become extremely hot.
Even with water cooling at this point
wor ]Q n g temperatures of 1800 deg. F. at
va j ve are common in modern prac-
tjce, and, should the valve head not make
con tact with the comparatively cool
sea ting at each cycle, temperatures of a
higher order are inevitable, with possibili-
des of sticking in guides and of spon-
taneously igniting the incoming gas
m i x t ure
T .' , , , ,
T* wld be f° un< h however, that, pro-
vlded * e val T e § ear has been P r °
assembled and tappet clearances adjusted
correctly, most troubles will be caused by
deposits of carbon and oil on the valve
s , tem ? between the to P of the g ulde and
tbe head. Some engines are chronic
oil-pumpers, and in such cases excess oil
passing piston rings and entering the
combustion chamber will finally accumu-
ja te on the stem and hold the valve from
sea timz
h '
High Temperature,
_ , , ,
Exhaust-valve temperature has a great
deal to do with the natur e of deposit
formed upon it. Older, low-efficiency
mo tors are no t hot enough to affect
quickly the deposited oil, and as a conse-
J uenc ' it is r £ moved by friction of the
valve stem in its guide. If, on the other
hand, the stem is very hot, oil deposited
will k e instantly converted to sticky
carbon, while at the extreme, as in
aviation practice, the exhaust valve
burns off the deposited oils so completely
and rapidly as to avoid any resistance
to closing.
The conditions of operation of some of
modern car engines are unfortunately
favorable to the formation of partly-
burned carbon on the valve guides. These
engines produce much greater power per
ii tre of swept volume than older types,
and consequently the burning gases in
the combustion chamber reach for higher
temperatures than they did in the engines
of a few years ago. This does not mean,
as might be supposed, that the cooling
water is hotter than hitherto, but rather
that when the exhaust valve opens the
flaming gas blowing past it is far hotter
than it used to be.
A simple experiment will show why
exhaust valves “gum-up” and suggest the
obvious remedy. Take a steel rod about
lft. long and thick, and, holding it


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
m
( l' WFwk'/, 'J,
/ y
\ \ o
P^--K
SPLIT PIN
By using nut as fulcrum, as
shown in illustration, split pins
may be removed easily and with-
out damage to hands.
..
. \
-~** B***?*■' .
4 •♦''♦ V » •
//[(yhyruix H 42
SIMONIZ
K
KEEPS CARS
BEAUTIFUL
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driver:
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
■ifVuA.
TnXPJAh
LET YOUR DECISION BE
DUFORreplacements
m
s
AU SIR All A N REPLACEMENT PAHS
DULY £ HANSFORD LTD
UPPED PISTON PINS
BATTERY TERMINALS
ECCENTRIC SOCKETS
UNIVERSAL JOINTS
VALVES AND VALVE GUIDES
•PHOSPHOR BRONZE BUSHES
•BRASS PARTS
•CHASSIS BOLTS
•SOCKETS
•BRIGHT NUTS AND BOLTS
Spfcofq
01) FOR
in a pair of pliers, place one end in a
flame until the rod is a bright red for
approximately half its length. Now]
plunge the heated rod full length in a
bath of hot engine oil and pull it out
instantly. Examination will show that
on the hot end there is no deposit, nor
will there be any on the cool end, but
somewhere along the rod there will be
an inch or so where carbonisation is very
apparent, This position will in some
measure depend upon the quality of oil,
but it will indicate the position where the
temperature of the rod is sufficiently high
to “crack” the oil but not great enough
to burn off completely the tarry deposit
formed. It follows that sticky valves
may be expected in cases where operat-
ing temperatures stimulate this deposit
below the valve head and above the
guide.
Temporary relief in these cases may
be obtained by removing plugs and liber-
ally dosing the valve gear with paraffin,
but the only permanent cure is to re-
move all exhaust valves and, after care-
fully measuring the distance between
valve head and top of guide in fully-
opened position, reduce stem diameter
from 10 to 15 thou, by grinding.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
E.L.M. (Omeo, Vic.). —(1) Is the area occu-
pied by the piston at the bottom of its stroke
included in the calculation of swept volume ?
(2) How can I determine the swept volume of
my engine ?
(1) No. Space occupied by piston is at no
time occupied by gas. (2) Diameter of cylin-
der bore in cm. squared by .7854, multiplied
by piston stroke in cm.; product multiplied by
number of cylinders will give swept volume in
cubic centimetres. A simple, practical method
where spark plug is located in top of cylinder
head is to remove plug in any one cylinder,
slack off valve tappets to prevent valves
rising from seat, bring piston to top dead-
centre and fill combustion chamber with water.
Turn starting handle until piston is at bottom
dead-centre, and add water from a cylinder
graduated in c.cs. until combustion chamber is
again full. Multiply volume by number of
cylinders.
W.O’N. (West Kempsey, N.S.W.). —My six-
cylinder ’34 model car is still pulling well, and
appears in good order, but recently I noticed
definite traces of water both inside top of
breather and inside overhead valve cover —
the water seems to be mixed with the oil.
Is this serious; and, if so, what must be done ?
Quite a usual condition. Products of com-
bustion include water and also, due to high
temperatures, water vapor is formed in the
crankcase. As valve and breather cover are
comparatively cool areas, the vapor condenses
in these places in the form of fine globules
of water. There is no occasion for worry.
* * * *
R.S. (Bowen, Q.). —My five-year-old car
(48,000 miles ) is becoming increasingly difficult
to start, and, although the charging rate has
been recently increased to 12 amps., the bat-
tery soon runs down through prolonged use of
self-starter. Once the engine fires the car runs
fairly well, and does not appear to miss. Any
suggestion ?
Eifher faulty valve seats and faces or an
ignition defect may be responsible for the
trouble. Check condition of make-and-break
in distributor and see gap is wide enough (be-
tween 12 thou, and 15 thou.). Examine and
clean plugs (gap 20 thou.). If this does not
effect a cure, remove cylinder head, grind-
in valves and reset tappet clearances to six
thou, inlet, eight thou, exhaust.
•!'
A.D.H. (Curlewis, N.S.W.).(I) What duty,
primage and sales tax, is payable on an Eng-
lish car chassis worth £350 Australian cur-
rency ? (2) Approximate freight ? (3) At
what ■ rate are bodies taxed ? (4) Is any
preference given to English bodies ?
(1) Schedule of rates is complicated, but
approximate overall cost should be 40p.c. to
45 p.c. (2) £3 3s. per ton measurement, if
open chassis. With wheels removed and
cased, approximately £3O. (3) Minimum £B5.
(4) Yes, 10 p.c.
E.D.C. (Cardwell, N.Q.) and McD. (Glen
Innes, N.S.W.); Where are ’26 Chev. insiruc-
Hon books obtainable ?
Will advise if available.
* , „ * Tr ,* „ * .
M.°. (Wollongong, N.S.W.).—Recently my
34 six-cylinder car suddenly fell away in road
performance. Top-gear hills now require
middle gear, and the engine gets very hot if
driven fast for any time. Starting up is easy,
but acceleration is not anything like normal.
Have checked timing and found correct, and
the timing chain, as first suspected, has not
jumped the sprockets, and is quite tight,
Valve timing may be correct, but what about
ignition timing? Your car is fitted with auto-
matic advance and retard in the distributor
head, and, if this has ceased to function and
stuck in the full retard position, it will give
similar symptoms to those described.
* * * *
E.A.M. (Kadina, S.A.). —What can I do to
prevent the springs of my ’32 sedan squeak-
ing ?
Unless lubricated every 500 miles you must
expect this, trouble. Jack up axles to relieve
spring tension before applying a mixture of
hot engine- and mineral-turps (half and half)
by means of a stiff brush. For a permanent
cure, fit garters to the springs and keep them
filled with thin grease.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Thermos”: Account (B. 27/11/’35)
of an accident caused by a wasp reminds
me that a few years ago I was one of a
party of cricketers driving by car on a
bush road to the match —and running
late. A grasshopper (of the overgrown,
armor-clad, thorny variety) flew down
the front of the driver’s open sports
shirt. His hands left the wheel, the car
left the road and leaped over a heap of
blue-metal, knocked over a pair of stroll-
ing lovers and swung back to the road,
where it was brought to rest. Nothing
was broken, and the only person really
hurt was the driver, who was badly
scratched by the ’hopper.
# * * *
“S.J.”: It isn’t safe always to trust to
spare parts. Fitted a new radiator before
leaving Sydney for Melbourne. Had to
limp along at 10-15 m.p.h., as a burst
above that caused violent boiling. No
mechanic along the road could clear up
the mystery, though several fiddled about
with ignition and mixture. Eventually,
just over the border, a brighter fellow
than usual cut the radiator open. It was
chock-full of felt fibres at the top of the
core. Cleared out and soldered up again,
the bus sped to Melbourne as though
dosed with monkey glands. One other
boiling case I had was caused by a
mechanic forgetting to cut a hole in the
rubber flange joint on the water-pump.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji:—
ISLAND HERITAGE
BY ALISON SMITH
%wn ™
0 H OLQJU U IR ATT II ID (G CK .ITOW/^^CHCEMD
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter IV.
HALF-PAST FOUR in the morning, and a
lamp-lit table set whitely on the back
verandah. A bunch of bananas hanging
there turning yellow. Outside, stars still burn-
ing in the dark sky, and beneath them the
hills rising like dark shapes, felt rather than
seen, behind the homestead. Faint coldness in the
air, and the dark palm-trees soaring high, high to the
stars. That was how Roddy remembered the days on
which the family went to Valoa.
Lanterns flickering as they went down the black
wharf. The big, half-naked rowers and the whale-
boat moving out through dark, lapping waters. High-
looming Ruvia receding. Paling stars and the glimmer-
ing beginning of dawn.
He remembered how the dark sea under the sun
turned to a smooth expanse of burning blue. He
would crane over the side as they crossed the reef
and look down, down into the clear, still depths.
Fantastic growths of coral, shaped like branching
trees, made of that mysterious world beneath the shin-
ing, transparent water a sunken forest. Beneath the
coral trees were wavering purple shadows glooming
into dusk, but in the glades between quivered light
and colors —azure, amber, emerald —flowing and
blending intricately each into the other. Sometimes
they grounded on a patch of coral not quite as sub-
merged as it had seemed. Then the rowers would
swing overboard and push the whaleboat off, climb-
ing in again as it slid over the snarling break of
waves at the reef’s edge into the sheer, unfathomed,
dark-blue depths of ocean.
The Bennetts lived in Valoa.
Mrs. Bennett was a graceful, dark woman,
interested in everything under the Valoa sun. Her
husband, a score of years older, had been some years
earlier thrown from his horse and left with injuries
to the spine that had made of him a helpless cripple.
He was a tall, lank man who sat in a wheeled chair
looking out with marred eyes into the brilliant tropical
day or the sea-scented, murmurous night. He did not
see people ; it was said that at times his mind seemed
a little affected. One was never sure. That brooding
sense of the man’s own tragedy blended with Adela
Bennett’s gay insouciance, and the young effervescing
life of her children —there were four of them —gave
to the old house a unique atmosphere.
The Bennetts were not now well off. They owned
Vunisesi, a strip of a plantation barely paying, at the
back of Valoa over a low range of hills. A half-caste
overseer ran it in a way peculiarly his own, casually
supervised by Mrs. Bennett. She had lately found
it convenient to take children of mixed parentage
into her own household, where they learned English
and were prepared to go down to school in Levuka.
It was rather incredible how the Bennetts
managed to exist; but exist they did. The house was
dilapidated, the fence about the compound was full
of gaps, and the gate had long since become a
memory.
A house of contrasts —a house that, for all the
exuberant young life overbrimming it, was slowly
dying. You came sometimes on the master of the
house sitting out there in the sunlight by a frangi-
panni-bush. He was like a dead man with his waxen
skin, until you saw the eyes, which alone seemed to
live. There were days sometimes when he did not
know his wife or children ; on others his mind went
rambling back over the past, and he would talk then
discursively to anyone who cared to listen.
Roddy had another memory that was set in
Valoa —a cherished one.
Just now the world of imagination was opening
for Roddy in manifold colors and with the sounds of
elfin horns. With the not-inspired aid of Elena (urged
to that task by her husband) he had a year ago learned
to read. Past the first tuition, he had found way
for himself as a duck to water. It was as though new
fields opened for his eager young mind to range.
Also, he believed firmly that the tales he read to
himself in the fascinating black print he still stumbled
over were real. The giants, the charmed beasts speak-
ing suddenly with tongues, the shining, fair-haired
princess girdled with gold filled his imagination in
company with more boylike concerns —the boat tall
Peter Harley was making for him, the big walu they
had hauled in coming over and which Meli had quieted
with a bloodstained hammer as it flapped and
writhed. Roddy hated blood, and shrank from it;
but his father scowled anger at him. His father
couldn’t understand that shrinking distaste, and the
big, good-natured natives grinned. Laurence had
sworn angrily at them and told them
to move their damned black carcasses.
They had bent submissively at the
oars again—all those big men who
obeyed his father.
He had the dappled afternoon road to himself
now, winding its picturesque, placid way round Valoa
shore. A pigeon with a rustle of blue-grey wings
dipped suddenly across his path, and then the
small boy stopped, wide-eyed and wondering, for
out of the fringe of trees stepped an amber-haired,
milk-white child in a thin white frock, torn by the
bushes, and with slim feet in small white shoes and
socks bush-stained. She stood —an undoubted
princess, if a small and rather forlorn one—looking
gravely at him out of her grey-green eyes. She
remained always to Rod with something of that
magical quality about her —a faery child, not like
Ruve or any other.
“I runned away,” said the small, disconsolate
vision rather forlornly. “I runned away from Finau,
and now I am lost. Will you take me home, little
boy?”
She came forward and slipped her small, soft hand
trustfully into his. “Where did you come from?” she
asked, frankly curious. “I like you, little boy.”
Roddy’s heart swelled with a curious sense of
pleasure.
“Why did you run away?”
“How funny you talk!” said the little, imperious
maiden, disregarding his question. “Like a kai-loma.
But —I like you. What’s your name? Mine’s Daphne.”
“Mine’s Roddy. I live on Ruvia—it’s my father’s
island, and he says it’s to be mine some day.”
A desire new to him struggled in Roddy to
impress this disdainful little lady with his own
importance.
“Pooh!” she said. “What’s islands! They’re
everywhere. My daddy would buy me one if I asked
him. I like little islands best. Once we went to a
picnic on a teeny, teeny one in front of our house,
and I caught a little silver fish all mineself.”
She skipped light-heartedly at the remembrance.
Now that she had a playfellow, she seemed to have
dismissed the searching Finau from a facile mind and
was bent only on improving the shining hour.
It was much later, while they were playing at
keeping house and Daphne, her small, pretty face
intent, was sweeping away dead leaves, that there came
the sound of men’s voices and the heavy movement
of them through the shrub. A tall fair man broke
abruptly into the enchanted play, and behind him
peered two curious Fijians. Daphne looked up quite
composedly. “It’s mine daddy,” she said affably.
“Daddy, this little boy is Roddy, and he played
better’n anyone ever played with me.”
But the big fair man was trembling.
“Daphne, baby, you scared me dreadfully,” he
said, and caught up and held the small, warm sweet-
ness of her close.
Roddy hung back somewhat shyly. Daphne’s
father looked down at him with genial eyes.
“You must be little Rod
Laurence,” he said. “I met
your father looking for you.
You’ve been playing runaway,
too, I’ll wager. Look at the
sun, you young rascal. You’d
better come back with me.”
With Daphne on his
shoulder and Roddy trotting
contentedly beside him, while
the Fijians brought up the
rear, he turned back towards
Valoa settlement. The sun
had set as they neared it, and
the green afterglow spread
over the sky. A big man,
wrathful, loomed suddenly
round a corner and came to
a halt as he saw Eliot.
“That young scamp of
mine” he began. “Ah,
you’ve got him with you,
Eliot.”
“Your son has been playing to this
sprite of mine—isn’t that so, Daphne? You’ll have
to let him off this time with a caution, Laurence.”
“He’s a good little boy —I love him,” said the
amber-haired small maiden. “He found me when I
were lost.”
At the gate of Woodley’s compound they paused.
“Let me down, daddy,” said Daphne imperiously.
He put her down good-naturedly ; and, before them
all, she went gravely up to Roddy and offered her
smooth, sweet baby mouth.
“You can kiss me, little boy,” she said, like a
small queen. “I love you, and when you’re big—big
as my daddy—l’ll marry you.”
Into Laurence’s eyes as his small son stooped
awkwardly came a strange light. He looked at them
both with design.
“By George,” he said, “they make a fine pair!
Out of the mouth of babes, eh? They could do
worse, the pair of them, twenty years hence.”
Eliot frowned faintly ; the other man saw the
change cross his face as he drew his small daughter
away.
“Mother’s waiting for you, child! Come, you’ve
said good-bye. Laurence, I must bid you good night.”
“Cold-blooded swine,” ruminated Laurence, left
so unceremoniously on the dusked road. “His High
and Mightiness looks higher than my son, does he?
Rod’ll be a mate for better than that milk-and-white
baby. But she’s a bonny child! We’ll see. We’ll
see.”
Roddy, preparing for his father’s wrath, found
that same incomprehensible being gazing at him with
speculative eyes. There was, it appeared, something
else that Laurence must compass.
Chapter V.
THE Laurences were in Valoa—Elena, vivid and
eager because there was to be a dance that night at
Bennetts’ for the steamer folk. They were at
Elena’s old home, all of them, except Roddy, who had
been sent away to school three months earlier.
Presently Elena and her husband would go down the
dark road, over which the unseen trees seemed to
droop perceptibly, to Bennetts’.
The dilapidated Bennett homestead had been
planned on a big scale: there were large, shabby
rooms and verandahs ; the bright lights and the masses
of greenery and flowers lent them an air of festivity,
like jewels on a faded beauty.
Outside in the fragrant, pulsing night the Valoa
girls and their lovers passed and paused to look from
the road at the lighted house, to listen to the some-
what jangling strains of the old piano as Adela played
“The Blue Danube.”
Elena’s carnation-colored silk flowed about her
like flame ; it trailed to her slender ankles, and where
it dipped low on her breast she had pinned two dark
roses. Against the shabby walls and amid the motley
company she showed radiant —a glowing, exotic
creature in whom the blending of two races had pro-
duced beauty. Beside her Adela looked suddenly
worn, and the young girl Flora was lumpish. A glint
of malice showed in Adela’s dark eyes as Elena and
her partner passed again.
“They make,” she said softly, maliciously to her
husband, whose bitter eyes dwelt on the young pair
without interest, “a fine pair—the handsomest on the
floor.”
Elena was dancing with Peter Harley ; the young
man’s dark, unhappy eyes were filled with a sombre
light. Lie held her closely, and her sensuous face
looked up to him with tenderness.
It was plain that they thought of none but them-
selves —among the dancers they moved as two apart.
It was as well that Laurence sat absorbed in cards
on the side verandah with the captain of the steamer.
Flora circled by in the arms of Frank Clark, the
new assistant at the store. He was a little, weak-faced
youngster with a tow-colored head of hair. Fresh
from Suva, he was beginning to look at the deep-
bosomed Flora with languishing eyes. They looked
an incongruous, dangerous couple. It is from such
combinations that the problem of the Islands, the
“in-betweens,” take life. Such little, harmless-seeming
men as Clark, such amiable buxom girls as Flora.
He looked down into her lighted eyes.
They danced late that night in Valoa. Laurence,
rising at last, the poorer by ten pounds, found a
drowsy-eyed Elena awaiting him. It was three hours
after midnight, and the moon, which had not long risen,
shed silver on a quiet world. The air had cooled and
freshened, but the big room in which they had danced,
that had worn over its shabbiness so carnival an air,
now showed drab and littered. The deep lines stood
out on Adela Bennett’s face as she saw them oft tne
rickety verandah steps. Laurence and his wife went
slowly along the tree-shadowed, silent road, she lean-
ing heavily on his arm.
THE STORY SO FAR.
The prologue related how, when James
Laurence’s dark mistress ran away from
him and their infant son, Roddy, he
made a trip to Sydney, where he met
and married Madeline. They returned
to his plantation at Ruvia, in the Fiji
group. A daughter ( Ruve ) was born, but
Madeline died at her birth.
After a couple of years Laurence
married a beautiful half-caste girl, Elena
Woodley. Laurence is a “strongly-made,
dominant man with a proud sense of his
own physical power and endurance.”
Elena is capricious, passionate and
pleasure-loving. A daughter, Vivien, is
born to them.


Laurence was troubled. What was he to do with
Ruve? She was growing fast: it seemed only yester-
day that she had been a little fair baby who looked
at him with untrusting eyes. She was nearly eight
now, but she did not speak much English. Elena
had not bothered much with her beyond according
her a sort of careless consideration. She found it
easier to speak Fijian to her ; she played with her
and her own small daughter, for whom the older
child had a boundless affection. Petted one day, for-
gotten the next: it was plain things could not go on
as they were doing. He decided to let her go to Sydney
for a time to her mother’s sister, who had asked
for her so often. But first it would be needful for
the child to become familiar with English. He made
arrangements with Mrs. Bennett to take her for that
purpose into her own home. Then she could go on
to Sydney.
At Bennetts’ they put a tattered cushion on Ruve’s
chair for her first meal, so that she sat with blue,
serious eyes taking in the new surroundings. She saw
a shabby, lived-in, sociable room with worn mats on
the floor, crackling colored prints on the walls, and
grey bead curtains that made a thin, dry, whispering
sound as one came through them. Adela Bennett
sat at the head of her table, a dark woman with eyes
that looked kindly maternal at her. She had grace-
ful hands, and they seemed to give to the shabby
table and the battered crockery something of their
own distinction. Her voice was a beautiful one-
mellow and dark and deep—and the island accent
that was very faintly discernible in it did not mar it.
Ruve sat by a child with great, dark eyes and a
curly crop of hair —a child of about her own age.
They looked solemnly at each other. That was Lola,
Mrs. Bennett’s youngest, and before nightfall their
arms were linked about each other and they were
sworn companions. Bessie was two years older, a
blanker-faced, more solid child than the effervescent
Lola. Denny, a boy of about twelve, came then —
very like his mother and clearly her darling. The
oldest of them all was Flora, turned seventeen and
conscious of it —big and hearty, her coloring vivid
and fresh, but her features heavy. She had melting
dark eyes, but at one side of her generous mouth
teeth were missing. She wore a white frock that
emphasised her olive skin, and round her throat was
a thin gold chain with a locket swinging from it.
Her hand went constantly up to it and caressed it.
She laughed at Ruve because she was so shy ; but
her laughter was kindly and without malice. Ruve
liked her.
In later years, recalling that life, it came back to
Ruve in a series of vivid pictures almost always set
in bright daylight. Intimate pictures of Adela
tying up the climbing rose by the door, her long
wrapper trailing on the grass ; Adela darning peace-
fully in the doorway in her rocking-chair while some
wrinkled, shrewd-eyed old woman from the Fiji town
sat at her feet and rolled with relish over a malicious
tongue the concerns intimate and general of Valoa.
Many pictures.
All was different, but, as a child will, she slipped
into the new routine. Mrs. Bennett, an arm about
her, had told her to call her “mother,” and the name
that she had never used fell easily from her tongue.
Further back in the somewhat untidy com-
pound and close by the little reed bathroom stood
three big kometis (wooden troughs) and a couple of
big tubs. There was a tap from which water dripping
had made a swampy puddle, and there were slippery,
soapy boards on which the two Valoa women who
came to wash sat or stood. Flora overseered them —
Flora, big and vigorous, barefooted, in one of the
loose prints she wore in the mornings, with the sleeves
turned back from her fresh, round arms. The scandal
of the town flew there. Sometimes the little girls stood
listening, big-eyed ; but the half-naked women and
the buxom, free-tongued Flora took small heed of
them. Ruve heard incredible things which, merci-
fully, she did not altogether understand.
Mrs. Bennett came scolding out on them, and
drove them, since at this hour they were supposed,
these two younger ones, to be sitting at the verandah
table making laborious copies of round Os and fat,
unnatural Bs. They were supposed to have an hour’s
lesson every morning, but sometimes they worked
for three mornings in the week and the others were
let slip.
The long, full days passed. Ruve was growing ;
her eighth birthday had passed.
She knew vaguely that she was
soon to go away to Sydney. But
she lived only for the day; she
did not look ahead.
There was interest enough in
Valoa.
She talked to Daddy Bennett.
Sometimes his mind was clear,
sometimes he wandered in a past
that was perhaps as real to him
as the golden, drowsy present.
She told him stories in her clear,
childish treble, and he said
absently “Aye, lassie, aye.”
He sat in his wheeled chan
among the flowers or under the
big dilo-trees on the beach. He
looked out over the burning blue
mirror that was the sea ; and some-
times he forgot the listener by his
side was a child. Words came
back to her when she was older
with a new significance. He talked
to himself; to the blue, burning,
unlistening sea; to the blue-eyed
child.
“A soft blue country,” he
said, his unregarding, faded blue
eyes gazing past her. “Soft air
and ease, but the good goes out
of a man too soon. Dark women
or white—they’re all alike, every
one of them ; working her own way under the soft
words of her. Don’t ever trust any of them.”
Flora and Frank Clark, the young assistant at
the store, were in love. He came up to the dilapi-
dated, hospitable house, and the sinu bush by tho
gateless entrance gave out a cloying, sweet fragrance
on the soft night air and the lamplight glowed wel-
coming. Flora, melting-eyed, waited there ; they stood
there blissfully by the hour in the scented dark, while
Adela sewed or patched in her rocking-chair on the
verandah. Her dark eyes had for young Clark a
beaming, maternal benevolence that enveloped him.
Or at night her beautifully-formed, slim hands
moved over the yellow keys of the old piano ; the
little girls, allowed to stay up late sometimes, stood
there, too, and sang. Ruve never afterwards heard
“Sweet Belle Mahone” or “She Wore a Wreath of
Roses,” but she saw again the yellow lamplight and
Adela playing while Flora and young Frank —who
was so shy that he blushed like a girl—sang together.
There were ludicrous pictures, too.
One was of blind Moga, Adela’s henchwoman.
She had dragged out one of the big, lumbering kometis
well to the side of the path for the purpose of taking
a bath, in the belief that she was in the decent privacy
of a great blossoming bush. Flora, annoyed, was in
that picture, too, a scolding girl, with Frank Clark so
acutely embarrassed that he was red to the eyes and
rooted to the spot in sheer nervousness. It was not his
fault that, assisting Flora, loverlike, in the gathering of
flowers, they had happened on Moga in the midst of
her innocent ablutions. There she reclined, great
waves of fat, brown, naked woman swelling over the
shallow kometi, a deprecating, embarrassed smile on
her thick lips.
“Flora, I am ashamed. Did I know then that
I was on the path? I am but a blind old woman.”
She lamented, but Flora, indignant, flounced off,
bearing the blushing Frank with her. Moga, still
lamenting, heaved herself out of the slimy trough
and waddled heavily to her own bure.
Quite suddenly Fani, the slow-footed, slow-eyed
girl who worked in the kitchen and waited at table,
had a baby. A little, flaccid brown thing that was
clammy to touch and wailed fretfully.
It lived only a day or two ; but Adela Bennett
fought for the fragile life it had. Fani wept, and her
mother—a voluble woman whose left arm was swollen
horribly with waqaqa, and who had come from her
town at the back of Valoa —shrugged her shoulders.
Lola and Ruve gathered all the white flowers
they could find, and Adela Bennett made a little cross
of them, and, as her quick hands twisted and tied and
cut, the white petals and the snipped green leaves
fell to the mats. Fani was in the bure she shared
with old Moga. It was darkened, but you heard her
noisy, gulping sobbing coming through. The voluble
old woman’s expostulant voice mingled with the
sound. In a circle on the matted floor sat women
from the village.
Afternoon light lay over Valoa. They stepped
across the threshold into the dim hut. Fani lay in a
corner of it, her face swollen with crying ; her eyes
had in them a strange, hungry expression ; her big
mouth worked grotesquely. She cried afresh, kneel-
ing up and rocking herself backward and forward as
they put the little body in the white-lined box.
“It fits beautifully,” said Flora, pleased. “Come,
Fani; don’t be a fool. You didn’t have it long
enough to be so fond of it. It would have been sick
always if it had lived. My mother says so.”
Fani moaned.
Hot Valoa sunshine burned outside ; but in the
hut was dimness. Ruve and Lola, who had crept in
behind Flora, fidgeted. The women who had gathered
there began to talk quite loudly, evidently with the
idea of comforting Fani by turning her mind from
her grief. Their voices rose together, drowning her
moans ; the hot house had a queer scent in it, and
the white flowers cloyed the hot air. Suddenly Flora
began to laugh hysterically; they turned to look at
her. She bent over Fani and whispered some-
thing they did not hear, and broke again into
an ugly mirth.
“Indeed, my daughter, she speaks truth!”
nodded the mother sagely. “You will have
others.”
A shadow fell across the gold oblong of
light stretching from the open door. Flora’s
unnatural laughter stopped abruptly, and
Ruve, looking up, met her father’s angry eyes
“There was a girl there, a brown girl, but there was white blood in her—that I’ll take my oath on.’
and grim face. The women shrank back. But he
was not angry with her, though his hand fell heavily
on her shoulder. She stood blinking up at him in
the sudden light. She was suddenly aware of Adela
Bennett, looking old in the sunlight.
“Get her things together, madam,” said her
father in a voice that cut like a lash. “I’ll take her
away at once. This is no place for a child of mine.”
Adela Bennett went as white as though he had
struck her in the face. The frightened child began
to cry.
Chapter VI.
RUVE was in Suva ; her father had brought her
down to be sent to her mother’s sister in Sydney.
Ruvia, with Lavinia sobbing brokenly on the black
wharf, Bennetts’ and sunlit, event-filled Valoa lay
behind her like vivid dreams. She was staying with
the Malones, who were friends of her father. Mrs.
Malone was herself going to Sydney, and Ruve was
to travel in her care to the unknown aunt.
She went with little Katie Malone to school for
the two weeks that must elapse before a steamer
sailed for Sydney. Katie would go into the convent
as a boarder while her mother was away. It was a
fortnight of a new life to Ruve. She and Katie
became firm friends, dawdling where the fascinat-
ing muddy creek went out, past the frowsy backyards
of All Nations-street, to discolor the sea ; loitering up
the long Waimanu-road. They went home sometimes
up the shorter Toorak-street, where there was a row
each side of untidy houses dwelt in by a medley of
Fijians and Indians, occasional Chinese and confus-
ing, intermingled breeds.
Back into the shadowy places of her mind went
Lavinia’s long tales of island gods and menacing
spirits. She was amazed in a world of wonders! New
things, everything new ; so many white women and
children, so many white men ; her world, which had
been almost the world of the dark folk and those who
were in between, was all newly adjusted. Shops and
ships in the harbor ; the slow, bullock-drawn carts
passing them on the road: it was much for eight-years-
old to take in and adjust. And sometimes from some
native girl passing close came a faint perfume of
island oil, and in a moment she saw the battered, sun-
blistered house of the Bennetts and Flora twining up
her heavy black hair. But she had no time for
memories. The present was all-sufficing.
She was very young, and she sat solemnly by her
little trunk on the deck of the Suva. She felt deso-
late, and yet thrilled through with pride that she, little
Ru.ve Laurence, was to make so important a voyage.
Katie Malone became of less importance. She sat very
quietly on the hard deck seat, stiff and straight in her
new white dress; she watched the little crowd of
people on the wharf: the rustling women in light, long
gowns, the men in white suits and helmets, the muscu-
lar Fijians, the Fijian women who sold necklaces and
baskets. Suddenly excitement did its work ; she began
to cry. Her father, unfamiliar in a dark suit, turned,
annoyed, and Mrs. Malone’s big false teeth clicked
in a way she had when she was concerned. Ruve
choked back the sobs, and Mrs. Malone said in a
persuasive voice “Kiss your daddy good-bye, lovey.
The gangway’s going up.” Her daddy! She had-
never called him that. She put up cold, obedient lips
and touched his hard, red cheek. He put a sovereign
in her hand and told her to be good.
Her Aunt Ellice met her in Sydney—a slender,
brown-haired woman with blue, expectant eyes. The
shy child felt a tenderer clasp than any she had yet
known —different from Lavinia’s fierce, protecting love
—heard low, broken words. “Madeline’s little girl!”
Some mystic tie of blood vibrated between them in
that first meeting. “Holy Mother! ” said Mrs. Malone,
honestly affected. “The poor little lamb went to her
as if she were her own. She’ll be in good hands now,
the Saints be thanked.”
(Continued on page 42.)


THIS SEAL ,
IS YOU R PROTECTION !
This Seal spells Security, for it
is the Seal of the Australian
Valve Merchants’ Association.
Valves bearing the Association s
Seal are fully licensed under
Australian patents and protect
you against patent infringe-
ments.
The latest and best' develop-
ments made possible by exten-
sive research of the World s
foremost radio engineers are
embodied in valves bearing this
Seal.
Protect yourself and your cus-
tomer —see that the valves you
buy bear the Association’s Seal.
ADVERTISEMENT OF THE AUSTRALIAN VALVE MERCHANTS’
ASSOCIATION.
'niobeci
'P* RADIO
ENGINEER
fmte for full particulars to
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE
CORNER BROADWAY & CITY RD. SYDNEY
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
AH-electric Sets from £3/10/*
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
m
Vs
RADIO NEWS
VIBRATOR POWER SUPPLY.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Many requests having been received
for details of a “Ford” coil power supply
for small receivers and transmitters, an
improvement on the usual method is here
escnoed.
The use of the “spark coil” to supply
plate voltage to valve equipment is well
known, and was first employed when
valve oscillators for low-power amateur
transmission were used to generate
I.C.W. (interrupted continuous wave) as
a successor to the then rapidly dying
system of “spark.” A noteworthy type
of coil and vibrator for this purpose was
the “T.V.T.” unit, designed primarily for
British military use.
Several amateurs made good use of
these units, mainly for portable trans-
mitters, and it was found that by using
neon-tube rectifiers and some degree of
filtering a fairly pure D.C. wave could
be generated. Since those days, valve
and condenser design has resulted in
widespread development in this direc-
tion, and the modern car-radio receiver,
with vibrator interruptor and mercury-
vapor rectifier, is a direct outcome of the
old “T.V.T.” application.
The trouble with the well-known
“Ford” coil is that it can be used only
01 ve, y * ov y _P ow e r > a 15-to-20-milli-
and though \ s applicable to small
portable transmitters the use is very
limited.
The possessors of one of these coils
can, however, make use of it in a dif-
ferent manner by using the vibrator
alone as the interruptor, with the second-
ary discarded. The circuit diagram
shows a useful variation. An ordinary
receiver power transformer is used for
high voltage, With the five-volt rectifier
winding across the six-volt battery supply
and in series with the vibrator. The
heater of a type 84 MV rectifier is con-
nected across the battery supply, and
choke input is used to the filter system,
consisting of the usual 30-henry twin
Bmfd. combination.
It will be obvious that any vibrator
can be used instead of the “Ford” coil,
and one can easily be made up from a
well-designed power buzzer. The snag
with such power-supply units is that, un-
less well designed, the vibrator is likely
to give trouble, and requires constant
cleaning and attention. Such a unit will
deliver about 200 volts at 40 to 50 mil-
liamperes, and thus makes a good B
supply for small transmitters or re-
ceivers. It should not, however, be used
for short-wave reception, as it is likely
that electrical interference from the
vibrator will be present in the receiver
and almost impossible to suppress.
D. B. K.
Compact Receiving Doublets.
Particularly for short waves, the doub-
let form of aerial with twisted or trans-
posed feeder line is recognised as being
highly efficient at the resonant frequency
of the aerial itself. It also has the great
advantage of possessing good noise-reduc-
ing qualities if the aerial portion itself
is located well away from the radio-
inductive interference field. This can
often be arranged, and the length of a
twisted-pair feeder line makes little or no
difference. For the short-wave broad-
casting channels taking in 19, 25 and 31
metres, the physical dimensions of a
doublet are modest, as also for use in
the amateur experimental bands; but,
when it is desired to conduct experiments
with a doublet aerial intended for broad-
cast reception on the 200- to 550-metre
range, the space required is inconvenient
for anybody but country people with
plenty of available room. An idea is
pictured for use in city and suburban
areas wherein the advantages of the
doublet are obtained, but in a very small
amount of space. A wooden cross-piece
is fitted to the top of a pole, the higher
the better, carrying two coils of 16-
gauge copper wire on 3in.-diameter
forms. The wire should be cotton-cov-
ered and the coils, when wound, soaked
in paraffin wax. For the broadcast range
each coil should have 170 turns, for 80
metres 60 turns, for 40 metres 30 turns
and for 20 metres 15 turns. It will be
found that in the short-wave ranges a
doublet so constructed for 80 metres will
work well on the harmonics. A good
feeder line can be made from 18-gauge
V.I.R. cable twisted together, and if a
tuned coupling is used to the receiver so
much the better.
City Short-wave Diallings.
The Japanese station JVN (28.14 m.),
after having been off the air for nearly
three weeks is back, and has been heard
nightly in characteristic programmes,
though one misses the news in English
at 7.55, which used to be a regular
feature. One night an exchange of pro-
grammes between the Japanese stations
JVM (27.93 m.) and JVH (20.55 m.), on
the one hand, and the German stations
DJA and DJQ, on the other, produced
a memorable transmission of choral
music by Bach, the reception being much
better from JVH than from JVM. The
latter station, which many listeners fail
to distinguish from JVN, was heard the
previous evening ’phoning (in English)
the necessary arrangements, and it was
noted that the Japanese were insistent
that at the end of the programme the
Germans should say “Auf wiedersehen,
Tokio.”
That our Oriental friends are —out-
wardly, at least—very appreciative of the
music of the West is evident from the
prominent place they assign to it in their
programmes ; yet on December 28, while
JVN was broadcasting “La Tosca,” the
announcer treated the performance as if
it were a baseball match, and at times
the opera could not be heard for his
commentaries. Disrespect for music is
not unknown at the receiving end, and
there are some restless listeners who
might profit by GSF’s good-humored
advice: “If you want to poke the fire
without disturbing the music, just stir it
between the bars.”
My thanks to PCJ (19.71 m.) for playing
the “Moonlight Sonata” and the overture
to “The Flying Dutchman.” Later in
the evening GSF responded with two
fine numbers' —Mozart’s Concerto in
E Flat and Brahms’s Symphony No. 3
in F Major. Excellent, also, was DJN’s
transmission of the third act of
“Gotterdammerung” at midnight on
December 30.
On New Year’s Eve a church service
in Dutch was being relayed simul-
taneously over a number of Japanese
stations, and was heard in dial positions
corresponding to 27.27 m., 29.24 m.,
29.50 m., 29.66 m., 31.32 m. and 31.86 m.
The first of these was PLP, the second
PMN, the third a station (name un-
known) whose frequency has been
announced as 10,169 kc., the fourth a
double-spot of PLP, the fifth YDB and
the sixth (the strongest) PLV. The
10,169 kc. station had been heard the
previous evening till 1 a.m., giving
characteristic Japanese music sung with
extraordinary flexibility of voice to the
accompaniment of native percussion
instruments, with an interval of news in
English at midnight. One of the items
was recognised—though not immediately
—as a Japanese version of that English
classic of the ’nineties “Daisy Bell.”
From 10 to 11.30 p.m. on Mondays
and Fridays a strange station has been
heard on a wave-length of about 51.5 m.
Its music, prolonged by almost inter-
minable repetition of phrases, is Chinese
in character, and concludes with an
anthem believed to be the Portuguese.
The indications are that its location is
Macao, South China. It may be CQN,
but, if so, its wave-length has been
changed from 49.83 m., as listed. On
December 30 I heard its name announced
several times, but could not positively
identify the first two letters as CQ. (The
Portuguese pronunciation, however,
would be different from the English.)
At 6 a.m. on January 1 GSB was very
much broken by rapid fading. WBXK,
on 19.72 m., was decidedly better, but
the strongest and clearest of all was
W3XAL, on 16.87 m. During the even-
ing the Javanese stations PLP, PMN,
YDB and PLV were all heard giving
the same programme, but PLV on this
occasion was so weak as to be barely
audible. RNE, on 25m., was heard
strongly from 9 to 10. Its closing
announcement stated that it would be
transmitting at that hour every Sunday
and Wednesday; it also mentioned a
transmission on 50m. at 7 a.m. (Sydney
time). Between 10 and 11 p.m. a pro-
gramme strongly suggestive of Khaba-
rovsk was heard from about the wave-
length of JVH. Proch’s “Air with
Variations” was followed by what
appeared to be a burlesque of Italian
opera, the crowd roaring its applause.
From 10.30 to 11 news items in Russian
were given by a woman announcer, and
the “Internationale” was sung lustily at
the close.
P.R.W.


GREATER ECONOMY IN OPERATION
WITH THE
TYPE IC4
VALVE
Radioiron
A new High-Gain, Non-Microphonic, Super-Control Radio-Frequency Pentode
is the latest Radiotron release, using less "B" battery current and giving better
selectivity than any other equivalent purpose valve.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC L
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide -
IMITED
- Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited
Amateur Chatter.
Renewed and lively interest in 56mc.
in the near future is predicted by the
writer for good reasons. The first is the
revelation of a new type of movable
beam antenna by one of the world’s
best-known radio researchers, John
Reinartz. A beam with a gain of eight
goes into a diametrical space of 33in.
Details will be given later on this page.
The advantages are obvious. The
antenna can be placed at the top of a
The experimental radio station G6QX of Mr. R. Jar dine, Hornchurch, Essex,
England. This station is one of several English amateurs heard regularly in
Australia on 20 metres. Mr. Jardine describes G6QX as the “Roneo " station,
the reason for which may be seen in the rack assembly of apparatus.
high pole with very little wind resistance,
and rotation by wheel-control from the
operating position is easily effected. This
new antenna could be conveniently ap-
plied to 28mc. by doubling up in size,
Thus a diameter of 6ft. serves for
,o ,
28mc„ whereas the conventional S6mc.
beams, as used in Sydney and else-
where, need vertical radiators and reflec-
tors over Bft. in length. For 112mc. the
antenna becomes almost “pocket size.”
’ . ’ ‘ . ‘ ' ’ . ,
During a conversation on 14mc. with
VK6NO, in W.A., the writer gleaned
some interesting 56mc. information. A
few months ago Mr. Seaton, the operator
at the observatory station VK6MO,
heard a VK2 station just too weakly to
identify on 56mc. This is by no means
a distance record, and full details of the
impossible in the light of overseas long-
time and date of logging are now
awaited. In a few weeks’ time the writer
will be again active on 56mc. with
entirely new transmitters, antennae and
receivers, and the 56mc. trans-Tasman
conquest will be sought in earnest,
When all is ready, Maorilanders will be
informed of operating schedules. It is
understood that VK2BP will be return-
ing to his Blue Mountains location
(N.S.W.), and it is hoped to reopen the
excellent 56mc. channel thence with Syd-
ney. VK2BP would be in a most advan-
tageous position for the Tasman attempt,
being at 2500 ft. above sea-level.
The 14mc. band is full of interest
with long-distance telephony, and some
good contacts and records are being piled
up by active stations. VS6AF, in Hong
Kong, and KAIAN, in Manila, P. 1., roar
into Australia nightly, to say nothing of
several Americans and South Americans,
including CO6OM Cuba. Mr. Cotton,
of VS6AF, is using a Patterson PR 10
receiver, and Mr. Speir, of KAIAN,
the latest R.C.A. communications
m °del. VS6AF surprised the writer by
Marking on the eve of New Year s
D that he was operating rem ote con-
trof whilst in b ed, being rather weary
a f te r celebrations! KAIAN, in discuss-
ing a well-known Sydney suburb, got a
little mixed between Willoughby and
wallaby! He requested that thanks be
extended by the writer to the large num-
ber of Australian short-wave listeners
from whom reports had been received.
As these reports total an average of 25
per day, he finds it impossible to answer
them individually, being a busy man.
VK6NO reports that the father of
radio in W.A., W. E. Coxon, of VK6AG,
is commencing activity in television.
Knowing VK6AG’s record as an
engineer of wide experience, one feels
that W.A. will surely benefit by the ulti-
mate outcome of this activity.
So many wireless bigwigs have
thrown cold water on the prospects of
high-definition television that it is
refreshing to read the account of the
plans for England penned by Gerald
Cock, the 8.8. C. television director. Eng-
land means business in television, and
confidence is so high that already
announcements are made in detail of
the nature of the first programme to be
radiated from Alexandra Palace, Lon-
don, early this year. Technical failure
and lack of public enthusiasm are both
inconceivable.
Good communication with very low
power over long distances is always
attractive, and a case in point is VK4EL,
located at present at Ayr, N.Q. With
1-watt input to a 8406 valve, the sig-
nal from this “mosquito-power” trans-
mitter is often R 6 on 14mc. in Sydney.
The operator also has no trouble in
working Maorilanders.
Congratulations are due to Maxwell
Howden, of VK3BQ Melbourne, for
being the first Australian to secure
W.A.C. on 28mc. VK3BQ is one of the
oldest hands at radio in Australia, and
his callsign is memorable as being that
of the first Australian amateur to work
with England in the dim past of 1924.
The writer, then in London, recalls well
logging A3BQ on 85 metres on a cold,
wintry evening.
VK2NO.
“Radio” Magazine.
The publisher of the new “Radio”
monthly magazine states that the publica-
tion office is at 7460 Beverly Boulevard,
Los Angeles, California, and not San
Francisco. The Pacific Radio Publish-
ing Co., which formerly published
“Radio,” will hereafter devote itself ex-
clusively to radio books, such as the
popular “Radio Handbook.” The recent
merger, of the two magazines “Radio”
and “R9,” with editorial control from
the former “R9” locale, means that
under the able helm of K. V. Lansingh,
W6QX, the new combined monthly, is
likely to be of outstanding merit. The
technical staff includes names which
mean something in the world of modern
short-wave radio, and with Bob Kruse,
‘Jayenay” Hawkins and Frank Jones on
the job interest will be kept high.
Station Description.
Australian VK2NO.
The illustration shows portion of the
lower-fi'equency transmitting and receiv-
ing equipment of the experimental station
owned and operated by Don B. Knock.
The operating position is to the right,
with the four-stage crystal-controlled tele-
graphy and telephony transmitter occupy-
ing the framework assembly. This trans-
mitter has been commissioned only dur-
ing the last two months, and, as overseas
contacts and listeners’ reports testify, is
giving an excellent account of itself on
20-metre telephony and key work. The
crystal oscillator, using 40-metre crystals,
is a 53/2A3 combination, used in the
popular Jones Exciter arrangement. This
is link-coupled to a push-pull 801 buffer
stage, linked finally to an Eimac 50T.
Ever-Ready battery bias is used through-
out, and each stage is individually
powered. Modulation is by Class-B sys-
tem, and can be employed on the 801
buffer with the 50T as a linear stage, or
the 50T is modulated directly. The
modulator uses four 46’s, two in parallel
per side. Antenna systems vary, and at
present twisted-pair doublets are in use,
using special 72-ohm line. The pet re-
ceiver is a Wide-World Two design, using
77 and 38 valves, with tuned input and
complete screening. Superhets are avail-
able, and a Jones type three-valve super,
with iron core I.F.T. is under construc-
tion. The station is also devoted to a
great amount of ultra-s.w. investiga-
tion, and new apparatus is being designed
VK2NO.
for five-metre DX. It is hoped to get
across to M.L. on five metres this year,
Don B. Knock has been 23 years in
radio, starting as a schoolboy when
crysfal detectors of the galena variety
and spark transmission were the rage. His
station in 1924, then G6XG in England,
was the first to communicate across the
Atlantic with power less than 10 watts,
This was on 95 metres. In Australia, he
started up as A2NO in 1926, and has been
active ever since. In 1930, during an
appointment with the Wyndham Meat-
works Co., North Westralia, his experi-
mental station VK6NK figured promi-
nently in the rescue of the stranded
aviators Smith and Shiers. VK2NO has
also played a big part in radio journalism
in Australia, and previous to radio editor-
ship of The Bulletin he was well
known to radio amateurs and conductors
in the Southern Hemisphere as technical
editor of “Wireless Weekly,” “Radio in
Australia and New Zealand,” “Radio
Monthly” and “Australian Radio News.”
Such receivers as the Go-Getter, All-
Empire and Wide-World series, and a
host of broadcast receivers, have emerged
from his workshop. Serving in the
R.A.F. in the Eastern Mediterranean and
Russia during the war, he is keenly in-
terested in defence problems, and holds
a commission as lieutenant in Ist
Cavalry Signals, Australian Military
Forces. Experimental station VK2NO is
at present located in Waverley (N.S.W.).
W.J.E.
Ultra-short Waves and Long
Distance.
In the last six months reports have
come to light from various parts of the
world of communication over excep-
tionally long distances with wave-lengths
below 10 metres. The phenomenal suc-
cess of amateurs using 10 metres for
international communication has been
accompanied over a similar period by
conditions which seem to apply equally
well to the still shorter waves. In U.S.A.
amateurs using the five-metre band have
on occasions suddenly been able to work
over. 800-mile distances, and commercial
telephony services using six-metre waves
have been able to cover distances up to
3500 miles. Six-metre television was
reported as having been seen (and the
accompanying sound heard) in New
York from Berlin. The British Post
Office is reported to be working a regu-
lar channel between Ireland and Canada,
and American warships have been able
to communicate between positions off the
eastern and Californian coasts on 7.5
metres.
In Australia a year or so ago A.W.A:
received reports that the experimental
seven-metre simultaneous transmission of
VK2ME had been heard in Q. and M.L.
These reports were doubted at the time,
but they now seem to be quite credible,
The latest Australian report of long-
distance reception of ultra-short waves
comes from Westralia, where the radio
operator at an observatory states that a
five-metre transmission from a N.S.W.
amateur was heard, but too weakly for
identification. As at the time a num-
ber of Sydney amateurs were conducting
extensive tests on five metres between
fixed and mobile stations, the report is
of particular interest, and will do much
to stimulate further activity. Regular
schedules will be run during 1936 by
several Australian amateurs, with the
object of communicating with M.L. on
five metres.


FOR WARWICK FARM.
Maiden Handicap: Kalong ; next,
Gazza.
Sefton Handicap: Flamari; next,
Cid.
Farm Novice: Fair Diana ; next,
Tune.
January Handicap: Curator or
Dulcedo ; next, Topical.
Berala Handicap: Heritor ; next,
Heroic Faith.
FOR CAULFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Koakaribb Trial: Graf Zeppelin ;
next, Ismarus.
Anniversary Handicap: Aitchen-
gee ; next, Villius.
Tooronga Handicap: Ogwell ;
next, Titanium.
Rowena Welter: Warlaby ; next,
Bite Again.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Miss Nottava, the midget of the field
and, in a sense, the marvel of the local
racing world, befriended the bookmakers
by winning the Canterbury Handicap at
the course of that name. Twelve months
ago the mare was cut about the legs so
badly that it seemed very unlikely that
she would ever race again. But skilful
veterinary work and a good spell enabled
her to come back this summer. In two
races at Randwick she finished at the
tail-end of the field ; but in the Summer
Cup, galloping alongside Spear Prince,
she took some shaking off.
At Canterbury Miss Nottava went out
at 12 to 1 ; 20 to 1 was laid. She was
really lucky to beat Limbohm. That
horse—also bred in Maoriland —stood
flat-footed at the barrier —he had be-
haved the same way at Kensington, and
it has become a habit with him. At one
stage he must have been 100 yards be-
hind the leader. But he made up his
ground to such purpose that turning for
home he was third to Miss Nottava and
Luxart. His determined effort to reach
the leader failed, and Miss Nottava beat
him by a length, Luxart being a poor
third. Tremayne was a disappointment;
the slow pace over the first half-mile,
which helped Limbohm, was against
Tremayne.
Beaten out of a place in indifferent
company at Kembla Grange earlier in
the week, the Queenslander Downham,
admirably handled by Darby Munro,
compensated the faithful in the first
division of the Flying Welter. He was
backed from tens to sixes. Big but
nimble, he chased Dual Ratio and Tom
Pinch into the straight and won with
his head on his chest. Wollun and
Veilantif ran a dead-heat for second.
Questionnaire was favorite ; she did well
to run fourth after being boxed up in
the field.
The Rosehill-trained Moaenza, now a
strong fancy for the A.J.C. Challenge
Stakes, made hacks of her opponents in
the second division of the Flying Welter.
The Ring knew all about her, and 7 to 4
was the best price laid —it was 5 to 4
when they closed their volumes.
Moaenza was not in danger of defeat
after the first furlong, and her advantage
at the finish was three lengths—it could
have been six. Canegrass was second
and Glenwitch —who will win a race for
pastoralist Bruce Campbell—third. Coin-
ash was second favorite at threes ; he
refused to do his best. Moaenza has
6st. 111 b. in the Challenge Stakes.
Jovial Son’s second to Egmont at
Randwick was remembered when betting
on the Park Stakes opened, and a multi-
tude took twos; some got 9 to 4.
McCarten was hard at him all the way,
for the horse did not care for the track,
but class prevailed ; he defeated Salted
Almond by half a neck, with Domica,
who came from a long way back, a
length and a half away. Slinger and
Many Fril cut at each other in the early
stages, and tired to nothing over the last
furlong. Jovial Son is raced by “Miss
Lorna Doone” (she is the wife of a
Macquarie-street medico), who owns
Sylvandale.
Cashmere (6 to 1), carrying the colors
once worn by Beauford, had an easy win
in the first division of the Maiden
Welter; the owners of Honolulu Jim
and Silver Rose shared in the money.
Silver Queen (7 to 4) was hard put to it
to beat Laurel G and Our Promise in
the second division ; she is a half-sister
to Sarcherie. Authentic (6 to 1) pipped
Trekster by half a head in the third, and
seemed rather fortunate to do it;
Rogarma was a neck away.
Blackbird (6 to 4 on), a natty daughter
of Magpie and Ascalon, outclassed the
others in the first division of the Nursery.
She is owned by Joe Harris and is trained
by George Young, who used to ride
Gloaming. Matchless (2 to 1) had a
runaway win in the second division, The
Palmist getting another place. The
winner was bred by Booth, and is raced
on lease by “T. R. Max,” who had
lolaus.
A fine finish was seen in the Campsie
Handicap: Sarsign (8 to 1), Wagga-
owned and -trained, struggled home from
Cockpen and Sally; half a head and a
neck. Spear Belle and Prowler were
at their girths. Verlina, the favorite, ran
well to the turn and then dropped out.
Sally, for whom there was good money
at fairly long odds —she wound up at
sevens —had to be checked going out of
the straight, and also ran into a bit of
trouble at the home turn. With an
uninterrupted run she would probably
have been first instead of third.
* * * *
Epsom (Vic.) punters sustained a body
blow on Saturday when Oldhome cap-
tured the Purse. This gelded son of
Sarchedon is mainly known as a jumper.
With L. J. Hynes up he finished third
in the last Grand National Steeplechase.
Odds of 20 to 1 were laid, and 15
to 1 could be got at barrier-rise.
Voitre tried to slip the field on
Firebrick, but Whitford joined issue.
These two horses galloped themselves
to a standstill before the home turn
was reached. Oldhome took charge
then, but Vim finished very fast and ran
him to a head. Glenlonan, the favorite,
found his legs slowly and was a poor
third. He belongs to R. Gilder, whose
cousin owned Gippsland when that gal-
loper ran third to Rogilla and Nord in
the Sydney Cup of 1933. The Gilders
are a Gippsland family. Fred Gilder
is chairman of the Mentone Turf Club.
His father-in-law, Leslie Stuart, has a
big financial interest in that proprietary
course.
Several high-priced youngsters com-
peted in the Bass Juvenile Handicap.
The 6-to-4 favorite, Heroic’s Pride, cost
lOOOgns. He belongs to Archie Crofts.
Steve Murphy saddled up Brian and
The Bulgarian for the first time. They
were unfancied and finished at the ex-
treme rear of the field. Brian (Heroic—
Spearette) is a brother to Maid of
Orleans, the beautiful filly that almost
dead-heated with Hall Mark in the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes of 1933. J.
W. Heeney gave 1200gns. for Brian, and
E. O’Brien, a Melbourne bookmaker,
850gns. .for The Bulgarian.
There was a thrilling finish. Queen
Craft squeezed home by half a
head from Defender, with Heroic’s
Pride a head farther off. Winner is by
Thracian (sire of Feldspar, the Victoria
Derby hero) from a relative of Kings-
burgh, who credited the late L. K. S.
Mackinnon with the Melbourne Cup
of 1914. Defender, raced by Mrs. A. G.
Hunter, is a strapping chestnut by Sion.
The dam of Defender traces back to
Trieste, perhaps the fastest filly that ever
sported silk in Australia. Titan, a brother
to Trieste, brought 4600gns. at auction
as a two-year-old gelding when James
White retired from the turf and sold his
racing string.
Divisions of the Chelsea Trial Stakes
were annexed by Cheque (Paper Money
—Roburite) and Graf Zeppelin (Wind-
bag—Extension) respectively. Eric Con-
nolly supplied the favorite for the first
division in Bonfire, but the gelding
knocked up after chasing the pacemakers
for half a mile. Cheque, backed from
8 to 1 to 5 to 1, won rather comfortably
from Makalu (by Highfield) and Craig-
avad (brother to Adrift, winner of the
Oakleigh Plate of 1925). Graf Zeppelin
is trained by M. T. McGrath for W.
Winterbottom and H. E. Vail, two West-
ralian sportsmen. He had been success-
ful earlier in the week at Moonee Valley,
and galloped so well there that 5 to 4
w'ere the closing odds at Epsom. Graf
Zeppelin gave Voitre his only winning
mount during the afternoon. Harold
Skidmore, with whom Voitre is having
a keen tussle for riding honors on Mel-
bourne courses, caught the eye of the
judge on two occasions.
Skidmore had an unhappy experience
on Radiant Star, who went out a hot
favorite for the chief event of the day,
the Moorabbin Handicap. His mount
defied restraint, dashed away in front,
and, to make matters worse, hung out
badly until he broke down a consider-
able distance from home. Aitchengee,
a gelding by Curialis, showed excellent
stamina to win from Steer Clear and
Stardennis. Earlier in the week Aitch-
engee was all out to beat Barren Corn
at Moonee Valley, but that strenuous
task did him a lot of good.
Eglonite had matters all his own way
in the Frankston Welter, but the odds-
on pop, Chelandric, had his work cut
out to beat Bullalla by a head in the
Epsom Plate. C. B. Kellow gave 1400
guineas for Chelandric as a yearling.
This is Chelandric’s third season on
the turf. He may develop into a useful
performer in minor handicaps.
* * * *
Yesterday the V.A.T.C. received
nominations for the Oakleigh Plate, the
V.R.C. for the Newmarket and Austra-
lian Cup, and the A.J.C. for the Don-
caster and Sydney Cup. Apart from
Arachne and Closing Time, Sydney
opposition to the Melbourne sprinters at
Caulfield and Flemington is not likely
to be formidable. The poor quality of
the lot now trained on Sydney tracks is
evidenced by the fact' that King’s Head
is topweight in the Challenge Stakes with
9st. 41b. Not a bad horse, but no nine-
stoner in good company. Arachne won
the Oakleigh Plate last year, but failed
badly in the Newmarket, and, though
her price was 8 to 1, was one of the
last three in the Standish Handicap on
New Year’s Day. She is fast, but appar-
ently the Flemington straight finds her
out.
* # = #
An urchin named Cox —height 4ft.
2in. ; weight 4st. 111 b intrigued
Victorian punters by riding three firsts
in his first three appearances on race-
courses. They are all country courses,
but the youth is assured of a great fol-
lowing among tote bettors, feminine
especially, when he starts in the city.
Sharpe, the former Sydney pony jockey,
rode seven winners at Wyong. On the
strength of that almost unique perform-
ance, he was engaged for Dual Ratio
in a Randwick handicap. The ladies
made Dual Ratio a hot favorite on the
place machine, though he was far from
being that in the ring. Their hopes were
dashed —Dual Ratio betrayed their con-
fidence. But Sharpe still has it; at Can-
terbury Park the div. on his mount
Honolulu Jim (second), 20 to 1 s.p., was
only £1 6s. for 10s.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Another attempt to hold up
a home-going bookmaker in Melbourne
suggests that banks are slow to move with
the times. It would cost little to estab-
lish each race-day an office on the
course where, after the last race, people
could put their money in safe keeping, to
be carried to headquarters in a car with
an armed escort. Few depositors would
kick against paying a small fee to ensure
the safety of their cash.
* * * *
It looks as if the A.J.C. will have a
poor field for the Adrian Knox Stakes on
January 27. On performances Cereza is
about the best of those left in, but her
two recent' displays were not impressive,
and as a miler she has not been tried.
It is a pity Yaringa was not nominated ;
the little Maoriland-bred lady (she is
by Iliad—Refinement) seems decidedly
superior to any other filly of her age rac-
ing in Australia. Her last four starts at
Perth have yielded first prizes in the Derby
and two weight-for-age races and a third
in the Perth Cup, in which she may have
been unlucky—she is reported to be awk-
ward in a big field. In her last effort in
the C. B. Cox Stakes she defeated Panto
and Cueesun at a mile and a half; and
the Perth Cup winner, Picaro, was among
the also-rans. On the same day her
stable-mate, Balkan Prince, runner-up in
the Derby, won the Imperial Stakes, same
distance, one of the most important
handicaps in the West.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Picaro, the Perth Cup winner,
is trained by a veteran pastoralist, J. F. G.
Robinson, and races in his colors, though
a partner, Stewart, has a half-interest.
Robinson has been training his own nags
for upwards of quarter of a century, and
has prepared some good ones, notably
Macadam, winner of the Perth Cup
in 1918 and the Australian Cup in 1920
a year after it was won by New Tip-
perary, who had been second to
Macadam in the Perth Cup. Robinson is
not a betting man —he rarely has more
than the price of a couple of tote tickets
on any of his horses —but he has got a
great deal of fun out of his hobby and
has probably made it pay.
* * * *
“Jack Point”: Count me in with
“Wodgil” (B. 25/12/’35) as being willing
to back Pamelus to race any horse in
Australia up to a mile and a quarter at
level weights, Peter Pan barred. But
“Wodgil” can’t trot him out as Queens-
land-bred: Pamelus was bought at the
Sydney yearling sales. But we can still
breed some good ’uns, despite our
wretched climate, so trying to man and
beast. For example, when Spear Prince
went under by a head to Soft
Step in record time for two miles, the
feeble old jockey who rode him,
“Whopper” McCabe, got his instructions
from his own daughter’s husband, the
steed’s owner-trainer.
* * * *
Ammon Ra is dead in Maoriland ; he
broke down so badly that he had to be
destroyed. His turf career was marred
by infirmity ; all the same, the owner,
C. C. Sheath, was fortunate in that
Chatham got influenza so badly as a
three-year-old that he did not strike top
form till the spring of 1932. Had the
pair met in perfect condition, Ammon
Ra may possibly have won the A.J.C.
Derby, as he did, but he would have had
no chance with Chatham in the Caulfield
Guineas or the Futurity Stakes, in both
of which he was successful. A good
horse, but not in the Chatham class.
* * * *
“Cat’s-meat” comes back:
First I have to thank Mr. Brewer, secretary
of the N.S.W. Trotting Progress Association
(B. 8/1/’36), for admitting that my pen-name
is appropriate to the subject I wrote of —trotting
horses.
Once more I “sneer” —to quote Mr. Brewer
—at the idea of racing for “sport only, no
betting.” In a very long and extensive connec-
tion with racing and kindred sports, the only
difference I have been able to find between a
race-meeting with licensed betting and one for
sport only is that in the unlicensed game the
oddslayers and punters do not stand up and
openly proclaim themselves to the world. In
this connection I would ask Mr. Brewer if he
ever attended a Maoriland race-meeting in the
not-so-long-ago days when course betting was
banned for the sake of the tote?
It is unnecessary to quote the popularity of
trotting in some quarters. The butchering of
trapped birds flourishes in Victoria and other
States, for instance, and two-up, faro and other
sporting amusements are popular in many
quarters, to say nothing of that splendid poor
man’s sport The Dogs. Capital invested is, no
doubt, considerable, but I should say is much
exceeded by that invested by a mug public in
shyster mining.
Further details of those “European experts”
who declared Mambrino King to be one of the
finest horses in the world would be more con-
vincing than the bald statement, and I should
like the names of the British judges who
declared Auditor 13 “the very finest type of
English officers’ charger.” As one who has
handled, dealt in and ridden cavalry chargers
during six years of active service, I can pnly
say that, if the story is correct and the British
are resorting to the dachshund-backed trotter
to mount their forces, it is high time they
mechanised all their cavalry, as they are
reported to be doing.
That horse which can do its 80 miles a day
carrying a military load (?) walking or trot-
ting, “military gaits,” is an exceptional speci-
men of his kind. The lumbering walk of the
trotter and his waddling trotting gait are as far
from any military gait as the sea-going roll of
a baggage elephant. Isolated instances of long
drives by trotters prove nothing.
Let Mr. Brewer quote me authentic cases of
trotters going, during many miles of travelling
in a blazing desert summer, for 72 hours on
end without food and water and carrying an
average of 15 stone, and I will take back my
unkind remarks about squibs. The above little
job was done by the blooded Light Horse
mounts at Beersheba, and in my own regiment
at least I cannot recall a single horse throwing
in the sponge, save through wounds. At
Romani the same horses were 50 hours with-
out feed or water, and there were many other
instances almost as astonishing, but all
authenticated beyond cavil.
I admit also that many most reputable folk
believe in and patronise trotting in preference
to any other sport. I have known many just
as reputable and of virtues as admirable who
are convinced of the infallibility of Douglas
Credit.
In supporting his claim that trotting is a
poor man’s sport, Mr. Brewer draws a pretty
domestic sketch of the poor man taking his
family out for a drive on Sunday and winning
a race with the same horse—trained by him-
self and presumably fed on table-scraps, and
not hay and corn at their present prices—the
next day. He omits to say how that poor man
can afford the expensive racing sulky—useless
for anything else —and the costly special harness
with which trotters are hung like Christmas-trees.
Circumstances make it unlikely I shall be
able to continue this controversy. Perhaps
someone else may take up the good work.
My old friend Mick Bruxner is eminently fitted
to do so.
Queenslander Max Grosskreutz, one of
the band of Australians who introduced
motor-cycle racing on dirt tracks to the
British, has done a mile (three laps) in
lmin. 2sec. on the Sydney Showground
track. It was for the mile championship
of Australia, and is claimed to be a
world record for the distance under the
conditions. Grosskreutz was unbeaten m
five starts the same night.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:
Ihe Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
c c D DIRECTORS:
*■ E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
Write or call for free explanatory booklet.)
MTUMSJ
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part til £
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy f 1 m
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. JSotmng so p
manently profitable as your own business. Full irifonnati n P
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUR COY., I-TD., Dept 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge k Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, jn.&.w.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
T . T ,.
11 aspire B tha Van Klaveren re-
ceived £9OO for milling with Carroll m
the ram at Sydney Sports Ground on
Boxing Night. This has been stated in
an affidavit sworn by Lucas, the pro-
moter, in support of proceedings to pre-
vent the Dutch welterweight leaving for
the U.S.A. by the Mariposa. Lucas went
on to say that it cost him £l5OO to bring
Van Klaveren into the Sydney ring, and
that the venture was showing him a loss
of £6OO, which would go west unless the
Hollander was held to an agreement to
engage in six more contests in Australia,
A writ of ca re was granted, and the
Van Ks. left the boat escorted by a
sheriff’s officer. Mrs. Van K. had told
Lucas that her lord was so disgusted
with the way he had been treated that
he would not fight again in Australia ;
and she, for her part, was homesick,
But as the lady tripped down the gang-
way she was smiling angelically, and the
Dutchman was grinning as if he hadn’t a
care in the world. Whatever the joke
may be, the public would like to be in it.
* * * *
“Spider” Roach and “Bub” Anderson,
two of the cleverest featherweights in the
business, battled for the N.S.W. title at
Carlton (Sydney). Roach is the more
powerful hitter, but Anderson is faster,
and neither had any advantage at the
end of the fourth round. Anderson’s
left eyebrow was opened in the fifth, and
at “corners” was bleeding so freely that
Anderson’s second wouldn’t let him con-
tinue.
You seem very unsettled
lately. "
Bert'. " Yes, !m bothered.
Gert.‘ " Why dont you settle
DOWKI ? vv
Bert ‘ worry ts settlimg, up T
Ins and Outs
T l o a ... „ . , • ... .
The Australian match against the weak
Eastern Province team at Port Eliza-
beth served one good purpose. It dis-
covered an Afrikander bowler named
Davies faster than anyone met before,
He had merits other than pace, as his
average of six for 80 in the Australian
innings of 325 indicates. Already he is
being hailed as an African hope. Of
the match itself there is little to be said.
Eastern Province made 92 and 89, ail
‘he Australian bowlers having a piece
o£ the batting. McCormick picked up
seven wickets.
* * * *
“Green Point”: At the end of the third
Test match McCabe headed the averages
with 126.33 for three completed innings
—that in spite of a duck. A long way
after is Fingleton with 63 ; Brown fol-
lows with 59.8, McCabe, Chipperfield,
Brown and Fingleton have scored cen-
turies. Papa GrimmeU has 21 wickets
at -th 7 'n’ r? 7?; Rel “l 15 a C !° Se S I C T d
W 1 . a • Fteetwood-Smith has
taken nine at 42.22. The team has a lot
of travelling about the provinces before
it begins the fourth Test only four days
ate the long journey back from
u Natal (February 22-25) and
the htth Lest at Durban, starting Feb-
ruary 28, end the tour.
* ? * * *
Tarrant’s men beat Southern Punjab
by an innings and 62. The Australian'
score of 340 included a smack for 115
from Ryder. Southern Punjab scored
163 and 115; Oxenham took 10 for 54
and Nagel 5 for 82.
“Stockton”: The drawing power of
Bradman was seen at the one-day cricket
match between Newcastle and S.A. A
Td week . day crow d attended, and
wben Bradman had batted and finished
his innings of 46 three-quarters of it took
the tram for home . Newcastle declared
at 7 for m t 0 give the crowd a chance
of seeing the champion. South Australia
had seven down for 2 52 at stumps,
t *
“Five Ways”: Doubtless Gilbert has
had his last tour with a Queensland
team. He has been a failure this season,
though rotten slip fielding has had some-
thing to do with it; his average to the
end of the Sydney match is 70, his tally
of wickets being eight. One handicap he
works under is his seclusion for most of
the year in a country mission station,
He gets no match practice in good com-
pany.
, ... , u 1
Nineteenth Hole
“Reservoir”: Brisbane continues to
enlarge its golf horizons: Enoggera’s
nine-hole course is being extended to 18
holes. Enoggera is a very sporting
course through which runs a creek that
has been a boon and a blessing to ball-
sellers. One of the reservoirs of the
Brisbane water supply is in the area, and
there is also a rifle range. How nervous
putters will get on when the range—
which is connected with a permanent
militia training camp—is in full blast
with a King’s Prize meeting remains to
be seen.
“Divot Digger”; Some time ago The
Bulletin told how an English golf club
had abo , ished the penalty for holing in
one _ it rewards the lucky man with a
d i nne r and, if he is a visitor, remission
G f ab f ees f or the day. The first Sydney
club to follow suit is Cammeray, which
should gain a large accession of Scottish
members. At Cammeray now a bob is
levied on all within sight and hearing
of the clubhouse at the time of the feat,
and the money buys a souvenir for the
ero t^ie t
.. Lak * eside ... * The Au * traUan profes-
siona| go|fers did only fairly well in their
first p ubbc appearance in the U.S.A., in
an G p en tourney at Riverside. The win-
ner was Hines, with a card of 276.
Cohen (N.S.W.) tied for 12th with 296.
Bolger was away up in the 300’s, while
George Naismith, who started well, tore
U P card-
... *„ * , XT c * . *
, A , p ;, : Kla ,™ a (N.S.W.) golf club has
e ”° f a
Driven d own into the sand flat which
forms the course, these tap good water
a t b ft. to 15ft.; a portable petrol pump
does the rest. Light Horsemen will re-
call the boon the introduction of the
spear pump to Sinai by General L. C.
Wilson, of Queensland, proved. Labori-
ous digging was abolished, and the water
from an attached hand pump was clear
and sweet and lacking the salty taste of
the stuff from the shallow hole dug
hastily in the sand,
* * * *
“Foozleer”; Our greens and fairways
committee is worried about what to do
with McDivot. It had always been noted
that he never swore when misfortune
overtook him on the links, and, as a
long-marker, this was frequently. Finally
Jones, our champion stickybeak, pinned
him in a corner and emptied most of a
bottle of whisky into him. “True, Ah
dinna sweer when things gae wrong,”
said Mac, “but Ah spet instead. And,
mon, Ah tell ye that wheer Ah once spet
th’ grass never gr-r-rows again.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Davis Cup
selectors have made a welcome departure
from hidebound routine by asking Brom-
•u e u * .tt J. „
wich. Schwartz and Hopman i£ they can
go to America, if selected Crawford
McGrath and Quist were also asked, of
course. This action indicates that the
selectors are pretty confident that Craw-
ford will not find himself fit enough to
go—the tentative selection of Hopman is
evidence enough of this. The champion
has said that he will refuse selection
unless his form in the Australian cham-
pionships at Adelaide shows him the
Crawford of old. In the Manly (N.S.W.)
tourney he went under to a comparative
youngster, Howard Lewis—a hard-court
product, to boot—who was downed by
Thompson in the final. Turnbull was also
asked, but is certain to refuse on business
grounds. Hopman and Quist should
form a better doubles pair than Craw-
ford and Quist, since the Melbournite is
rated among the best two or three
doubles players in the world. A team
made up of Hopman, Quist, McGrath
and Schwartz should make a creditable
showing.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: McGrath and
Moon had a good trot in Maoriland,
the young ’un beating Andrews in the
final of the Dominion championship by
three sets to one. With a M.L. partner
he was beaten in the doubles, but Moon
made amends by carrying off the mixed
doubles with Miss Nicholls, who was in
Australia not long ago.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Davis Cup selectors
have asked the nominees for selection in
the team whether, if the tourists are
knocked out by the U.S.A., they would
like to go on to Wimbledon. Quist will
certainly want to make the trip to defend
his doubles title, whether he will have
Crawford or Hopman for a partner. All
the others should be sent also, for the
experience for the new hands will be in-
valuable. The team may leave at the
end of March and play in the American
zone -
* * * *
“Top Spin”: In future Wimbledon is
to cover all its principal courts as well
as the centre arena, and the costly tar-
paulins for three are now ready. They
are much larger and heavier than those
used for cricket pitches, and the Wimble-
don ground staff is now undergoing
special drill in handling them in a hurry.
* * * *
“Centre Court”; Perry is evidently
bucking up. When he reached Mar-
seilles on his way home he forecast that
England wouldn’t have Buckley’s of
keeping the Davis Cup, and that he
thought Germany or the Czecho-Slavs
would fight out the final. Back in Lon-
don, the outlook is changed. He says
the Cup is a snip for Britain, with the
U.S.A. as challenger, and adds_ that
Austin is one of the finest players m the
world. Modesty blocks him from men-
tioning another.
■
Miscellaneous
,
Q - •’ 1935-36 A -
remind me of Smiley s dog (vide Mark
Twain), who always went for the hind
legs of the other dog in his fights. One
day they stacked him against a dog which
had its hind legs cut off by a circular-saw,
and die victor Si HniZs
brokenhearted. When the English Unions
abolished the wing . forward and forbade
fewer (han three men in the front row ,
they struck at the very root c f All-Black
SU p re macy, During this trip constant
re f er ence was made to the British sides’
superiority in getting the ball. This was
unheard-of in the days of two hookers
j n f rcm t, save when a similar formation
was me t. The M.L. players had played
this and the wing-forward game for so
many years that in time they went
through the motions subconsciously and
with all the ruthless and invincible pre-
cision of a machine.
......
“Birkenhead Park”: The English R.U.
has been tempering the wind to the
shorn Canterbury lamb. It is paying the
expenses of the All-Blacks or any of
them to any part of Britain, and supply-
ing them with theatre tickets. After the
lost match cables, congratulatory and sym-
pathetic, were received by the teams from
South Africa, Singapore, Bombay, Mont-
real, Alexandria and a place called Mel-
bourne. Truly real Rugby is a far-flung
game.
* * * *
“Gabba”: After much wrangling the
R ug by League Board of Control, sitting
i n Brisbane, has allotted the matches of
the English footballers due this season,
sixteen are to be played, Queensland and
n. S. Wales getting eight each. The first
Test is at Sydney on June 8, the second
at Brisbane on July 4, and the third at
Sydney on July 18. The opening game
will be aga i nst N.S.W. on May 30 ; the
o p en i ng g ame in Queensland will be
aga j ns t Brisbane on June 10; Queens-
jand will be met three days later. The
f eam w ill pj ay as f ar north as Towns-
vdje be f ore returning to Brisbane. Only
f our matches have been allotted to Ma
state country centres, including one at
Newcastle, whereas the Queenslanders
are g jving their country people six dates,
Heavy guarantees have been asked for
all these matches.
«o t » xr t *.
Scal Y **,{?. tt' «
supersede the dogs in the U.S.A. The
A sh are bberalec t a ‘ tb ? f nd . o£ l e ?" ate
r° u «Y s * ar “i’ B :S'? lnt be . m « bn f ht y
lighted while the finishing end is in dark-
ness* Whenihe ban |ef goes up the fish
?!. f° r lh e shadows at the other end.
The troughs are lined with white so that
backers can watch their fancy all the
way and bet “in running.” Studs for
breeding racing fish are being set up all
over the country, and the problem of
crossing the barracouta with goldfish to
combine pace with small size is engaging
the attention of the best brains.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL DISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Last Days of Pompeii”
This very elaborately devised spectacle
owes but little to Bulwer Lytton’s novel.
Story concerns the adventures of one
Marcus, a Pompeiian blacksmith, who,
soured by misfortune in early manhood,
set himself, first as a gladiator, later as
a slave-dealer, to achieve great wealth.
He served Pontius Pilate, to their mutual
advantage, and Marcus’s adopted son
Flavius was restored to life in Judea by
a certain Nazarene whom Pilate shortly
afterwards crucified. Marcus remained
unregenerate, but the leaven of righteous-
ness worked strongly in Flavius, who
aided slaves to escape and, when caught,
perished with them in the arena. On
that last day of games in Pompeii the
wrath of Vesuvius awoke, and the
luxurious town went down in earthquake
and flame. Casting is good. Preston
Foster makes a manly Marcus; Basil
Rath bone’s Pilate is memorable —he is
Seymour Hicks in “Vintage Wine,” at
Sydney Mayfair.
the contemptuous Roman patrician to
the very nose —and John Wood’s Flavius
and Louis Calhern’s Roman prefect are
well in the picture. Settings are elaborate
and almost convincing—the arena scenes
escape the “almost” —and the final
sequences, exhibiting tottering walls,
showers of fire, slowly encircling torrents
of lava and a vast terrified crowd of
fugitives striving madly to escape, live
up to the best traditions of D. W.
Griffiths and C. B. de Mille. At Sydney
Lyceum.
“8.8. C.—-the Voice of Britain”
This film, the first of the British
G.P.O. series directed by John Grierson
and Stuart Legg to be shown in Aus-
tralia, gives an illuminating view of the
activities of 8.8. C. Broadcasting House,
the stations at Daventry and Droitwich,
the maze of mechanism employed in
transmission, and the way in which
broadcasts are prepared figure in open-
ing sequences. Very striking is the
unhurried politeness of everyone in
authority. Henry Hall is seen coaching a
dance orchestra, Christopher Stone makes
a brief appearance, “Stainless Stephen”
does some announcing and brief talks are
given by H. G. Wells, G. K. Chesterton,
G. B. Shaw and David Low. The
cartoonist has grown a goatee beard, and
evidently has added several stone to his
weight since he was on The Bulletin.
Shaw’s contribution is a panegyric on
the microphone. He says it is impossible
for anyone to speak lies or insincerities
into it without being immediately found
out. The film as a whole is a striking
example of what the technicians of
screen art call “montage”—the knack
of creating striking impressions with a
small expenditure of time and film. At
Sydney Lyceum.
“Oasis”
This film, produced in honor of the
South Australian centenary by Capt.
Frank Hurley, conveys more* informa-
tion about the State in fifteen minutes
than could be given by a 1000-page
printed pamphlet. The methods of agri-
culture, the peculiar condition of the out-
back localities in regard to water, the
lakes on mountain-tops, the aborigines
and their customs, and the wild, grand
scenery of Centralia are all given atten-
tion. Films of this calibre should do
much to command respect abroad for
Australia’s cinema productions, for the
photography is splendid and the editing
intelligent. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Broadway Gondolier”
A musicomedy on the broadcasting
theme. Dick Powell is a taxi-driver,
who tries to establish himself as a broad-
casting singer. He tries a station in which
Joan Blondell is the director’s secretary.
Seemingly the station is run exclusively
for the purpose of advertising the cheese
products of a skittish widow (Louise
Fazenda). Through a misunderstanding,
Powell’s trial is a failure. Despairing of
getting anyone in Amurrka to sing en-
ticingly about her toothsome product,
the widow takes Joan to Veniqs to seek
talent. Dick also goes there, having been
preceded by his friend Prof, de Vinci
(Adolphe Menjou), a broken-down
maestro, who is going to arrange a career
for him. As a singing gondolier
Richard catches the ear of the widow,
lands a contract, and on his return to the
States creates a furore over the air.
Getting fed up, he spills the beans over
the “mike” that he is a Bronx taxi-
driver. No use —he finds himself more
popular than ever, his success being
shared with Joan. Good light enter-
tainment, the music being bright’ and the
comedy, with the capable Miss Fazenda
as its chief dispenser, excellent. Dick
Powell’s voice and personality are easy
on ear and eye, and Joan Blondell teams
well with him as the sophisticated and
fluffy secretary. It is strange to see
Adolphe Menjou in a seedy role, and
later in the picture he looks more at
ease in a boiled shirt. The Mills Bros,
and Ted Fio Rita and his band are co-
Preston Foster as Marcus in “Last Days
of Pompeii” at Sydney Lyceum.
opted to strengthen the musical side of
the fantasia. At Sydney Capitol.
“Thunder Mountain”
Also at the Capitol. A rip-roaring
westerner of the Idaho gold-rush days.
Zane Grey wrote the plot, a guarantee
that it is true to type. A villain (Morgan
Wallace) robs an honest prospector by
jumping his claim and hauling in the
gold. His turpitude is exposed after
many vicissitudes by the golden-hearted
hero (George O’Brien). So far so good,
but the decline of western films may
be gauged from the fact that the
villain hasn’t even a long moustache
to twirl as he villainises, and that
George O’Brien has only one gun,
which he doesn’t pull once. In fact,
the best shots in the picture are those
of the scenery. Frances Grant is a pretty
heroine, and Barbara Fritchie a hard-
boiled gold-digger who doesn’t need to
go near the stampers to get the yellow
metal.
“The Mark of the Vampire”
A gloomy deserted castle in Poland is
the scene of most of the action in this
thriller. In this old pile, festooned ’with
cobwebs, overrun with rats and beetles
Basil Rathbone as Pilate.
and infested by bats, four vampires,
living dead, have their stronghold, issuing
forth between sundown and dawn to prey
upon mortals. A year previously the
old baron had been slain (presumably by
a vampire), and the creatures are now
concentrating their attacks upon the
baron’s orphaned daughter and her young
man, much to the distress of her guar-
dian, the new baron. Comes on the
scene old Professor Zeelen (Lionel Barry-
more), deep of voice and mysterious of
aspect. The vampires, he says, must be
tracked to their lair in the daytime and
decapitated. But before he comes to
grips with them many eerie scenes are
enacted. The ending is, if not original,
at least very unexpected. It by no means
fully explains the earlier occurrences, and,
indeed, is inconsistent with many of them,
but nobody expects a thriller to be
logical. An atmosphere of uncanniness is
skilfully created and maintained, and the
face of the female vampire peering in
windows, is subtly horrible. Bela Lugosi
as a male vampire adds to the fearsome
quality of the fantasia. At Sydney
Cameo.
“Top Hat”
Irving Berlin wrote the scene for this
musicomedy, and it has been so arranged
that Fred Astaire has provocation for fre-
quent outbursts of tap-dancing, in most
of which he is joined by Ginger Rogers.
E. E. Horton is a philandering husband ;
Helen Broderick his sophisticated wife.
The root and kernel of the plot is that
Mr. Astaire, unmarried, is mistaken by
Miss Rogers for Mr. Horton, very much
married. Hence Mr. Astaire’s advances
are regarded with dubiety, but not so
much so as to keep the principals apart’
for more than a few seconds at a time.
At intervals Mr. Astaire croons, which
is a mistake. The piece is not within
miles of the “Roberta” standard, but is
mildly amusing. At Sydney State.
“Marry the Girl”
Leads up to an action for breach of
promise, in the course of which the de,-
fendant (Sonnie Hale) climbs out of the
witness-box and clambers over tables and
benches to embrace the plaintiff (Wini-
fred Shotter). In the meantime counsel
for the plaintiff (Hugh Wakefield) has
married the girl (Judy Kelly) for whom
defendant jilted plaintiff. The climax is
worked up to in leisurely fashion, and
dialogue is only moderately humorous.
At Sydney Mayfair.
“Vintage Wine”
Seymour Hicks in this opus parades his
whole bag of stage tricks, and as they
have been familiar to the British public
for 40 years and have been widely copied
they are of only melancholy interest. He
is a widower of 62, who married a girl
of 22 and lied to her about his age, fear-
ing it would be a shock to her to learn
that she was a step-great-grandmother.
Many of the characters are unable to
enunciate clearly, and a continuous
orchestral undercurrent, introduced for
no rational reason, obscures much of the
dialogue. A bright jewel in this dull set-
ting is Eva Moore’s characterisation as
an autocratic dowager. The rest is comic
by-play of a sort that was hackneyed in
1880. Also at the Mayfair.
“Peg of Old Drury”
To Anna Neagle as Peg Woffington
and Sir Cedric Hardwicke as David
Garrick fall nearly all the honors in
this semi-historical romance at Melb.
Athenaeum. Peg begins as a talented
girl, successful in Dublin gaffs and be-
loved by Michael O’Taffe. He goes to
London to seek his fortune, and she fol-
lows, but, risen in the world, he jilts her
for a society lady. Peg pushes her way
into a small part in a Drury-lane theatre,
where her ability attracts the attention of
Garrick. The film dramatically finishes
with her death on the fall of a triumphant
curtain. Margaretta Scott gives a clever
sketch of the jealous star deposed for
Peg. She speaks hardly at all, but tells
the story of her hate and envy in her
face. Maire O’Neill gives an effective
picture of Peg’s mother, and Arthur
Sinclair makes a credible father.
“While Parents Sleep”
Also on the bill at the Athenaeum is
a screen version of a comedy seen on
the stage in Australia a couple of years
ago. Jean Gillie as the shopgirl carries
the whole weight of the performance.
The rest, with the exception of Ellis
John Wood as Flavius.
Jeffreys as Lady Carrington, do no more
than represent English ladies and gentle-
men in a colorless fashion.
“Broadway Melody of 1936”
This revue film at Melbourne Metro
differs from its predecessors in being
more of a story and less of a spectacle.
There are all the ballets the public can
appreciate, and they are just as magni-
ficent and original, both in terpsichorean
and photographic effects, as the earlier
ones. It is the story of the stage-struck
small-town girl who comes to New York,
impersonates a French star and gets
away with it until the real star threatens
prosecution. But her natural ability
wins out. Robert Taylor as the theatri-
cal manager, Jack Benny as a newspaper


LSTRI
R 5
FAMOUS PICTURE SERIES
MM
*>. i Wl .
'rs '*
i*» A £
*> .
ggllligi::. : ? ®
Co-Starred forlhe
First Time/
i&fcTRACH
<?»«NEAGLE«
STMT SINGERS
SERENADE
Mi
w
Directed by
HERBERT WILCOX.
/
Glamorous fflt
modern musi- «■!
cal romance KL
in an ever- H
changing S
world of H
make-belief! fl
//,
man, Una Merkel as the manager’s
phone girl and June Knight as a vamp
are all good. Best feature is the tap-
dancing of Eleanor Powell.
Some First Nights
People versed in Savoyard archaeology
trace a connection between “Princess
Ida” and one of Tennyson’s woman-wor-
shipping poems, and everybody, when
the operetta was first produced, identi-
fied it as a witty reproof to feminist
aspirations. That may be so, but the
comedy is still able to stand on its merits
as a piece of fun in a generation which
doesn’t read Tennyson, and which has
nearly forgotten that women had to fight
hard to get the right to vote and to enter
the learned professions. Possibly because
it is felt by theatrical managements that
the piece “dates” rather more than most
of the other Gilsullivan extravaganzas
it is not often staged nowadays, but the
risks were braved at Sydney Royal on
Saturday and were proved to be non-
existent. The good-tempered humor of
Gilbert and the remarkably pretty music
of Sullivan were found to be as much to
the taste of the audience in this instance
as in any other.
Ivan Menzies had less prominence
than usual as King Gama, but his elfin
sprightliness adapted itself admirably to
the crippled hunchback. Next-best of
the fun-makers was Godfrey Stirling as
Cyril. Winifred Lawson was very near
“Canberra Country," by H.R. Gallop, in the Macleod
Gallery, Sydney.
the ideal Princess, and Evelyn Gardiner’s
robust powers of burlesque had full
scope in the role of Lady Blanche. Set-
tings and costumes were as colorful as
ever, and the orchestra, under Andrew
MacCunn, did itself proud. The chorus,
on the opening night, wasn’t above criti-
cism, but it should master its music
before the end of the week.
* * * .j.
A great deal of water has flowed
under the bridge since the days when
the music of Richard Strauss was re-
garded as iconoclastic and revolutionary,
His most daring orchestral flights now
seem conventional, and the A.B.C. opera
troupe’s broadcast performance of “Der
Rosenkavalier” pleasantly surprised the
lowbrows who didn’t expect to be able
to comprehend a note of it. The music
has verve and humor. Strauss in this
opera has a way of dashing info a valse
movement in the style of namesake
Johann, an aria as mellifluous as any of
Bellini’s or a snappy bravura crescendo
such as Rossini delighted to pen, and
dashing out again before the excursion
fully seizes the ears of the listener. The
whole atmosphere is capricious and un-
restful ; excitement is tense in the first
act, rises to frenzy in the second and be-
comes well-nigh hysterical in the third,
The few small lulls in the storm, such
as the quiet passage for women’s voices
in the third act, serve but to emphasise
the torrid emotional condition of the
characters in this mildly naughty story,
Transmission was excellent, and orches-
tra, chorus and soloists Austral, Thea
Phillips, Yvonne Marotta, Lionello Cecil,
Raymond Beatty and Sydney de Vries
were heard to advantage. Maurice de
Abravanel conducted.
* * .
Keith Barry sums up London’s theatn-
cal year:—
heerfluch aftivitv ory °iL the theatr ? h r S
been suen. activity as there was in London
towards the end of the year, and no competent
actor or actress had difficulty in finding a niche
somewhere or other. . , .
teen-t e wenfi a es re was te krge!y r L ow? fault Faint-
hearted managers saw in the films a new Loch
Ness monster which devoured in one gulp a
tl faiipn ge ;^ ati r- T any case .. the theatr< r
triumphs were the unpleasant and wo rdf char-
acters displayed in the earlier Noel Coward
p i a^ s T and lounge-lizard back-
C then 8 camfthe
tion might have amused London, New York
and Sydney, but it failed to interest the vast
bulk of the population at Leeds, San Fran-
cisco and Bendigo. The provincial and country
people (who represent the vast bulk of man-
kind) wanted action and virility, where the
West End had been content with repartee and
elegance. The films provided old-fashioned
blood-and-thunder, disguised with more or less
skill, and they beat the theatres hands down.
From the practical viewpoint they gave build-
ings of luxury and seats of comfort, while the
theatre still clung to its Victorian temples and
crowded discomfort for all but the high-paying
clients.
But now the theatre has come back,
to find in the screen, strangely enough, not an
enemy but an ally. The cinema, going on from
strength to strength, has collected unto itself
a vast, regular audience, an audience with a
habit of playgoing, and an audience looking
for fresh fields to visit. This audience has
descended upon the theatre, to the great
astonishment of those who control the stage.
A feverish search has begun for new plays and
new artists, a search, alas! not always attended
with success. Especially in the matter of young
leading ladies is London desperate. The ordi-
nary process in learning dramatic art is to serve
an apprenticeship in repertory and stock com-
panies. The decay of the theatre has meant
the death of most of these concerns, and a
lack of any suitable breeding-ground for future
stars, a circumstance that has forced on to the
West End stage a crowd of youngsters whose
beauty and sophistication by no means com-
pensate for their inexperience and ignorance
in stage technique.
This much is certain —the film not only has
not killed the stage, but has given it a new
lease of life. “House Full” is once again the
normal Saturday-night announcement of the
London theatres.
“Como”: People aren’t always cynical
about their own professions. Many years
ago I was standing at the back circle of
the old Melbourne Royal while one of
the most blatant
and gory of melo-
dramas was being
presented. When
the little . cheeild
was out in the
snowstorm I
noticed a member
of the audience
seated in front of
me sobbing more
bitterly than the
youngster on the
stage. Watching
him thenceforward,
I saw his face
grow hard at the
iniquities of the
villain and melt
when the hero
whispered his love
to the heroine.
Then came the in-
terval, and I waited
to discover the
identity of the im-
pressionable one.
It was Hans Philips, himself a well-
known actor, and one who had taken
part in a hundred enormities similar to
that we had just been witnessing. He
was as sober as a Judge, too.
* * * *
“The Echo” (England): Up to date,
the only grouse I have against Tiburon
is that I cannot place Mrs. Mulver. I
thought I knew most English dialects,
but that lady’s is such a hotchpotch that
I am beginning to doubt if she ever was
a dinkum pommy! What county does
she belong to? The “hinny” clearly indi-
cates Tyneside—the only place where
that word is used as a term of endear-
ment. Mrs. Mulver seems to me to speak
mainly Border Scots. There is more
than a dash of Scots in “hooses,” “noo,”
“ma,” “toon,” “inded,” but if this is
where she hails from she would certainly
not use words like “ ’oopin’ corf,”
“vawses,” “pleying” (Cockney), “owld”
(Irish), “soolky” (Yorks), “coom oop”
(Somerset). Dialects vary within even
a few miles, but are not a mixture of
various counties. My county (Cumber-
land) has three distinct dialects —more
noticeable in intonation than in actual
words. The examples given of Mrs.
Mulver’s speech would never be heard
all from one person.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Mention of the
Melbourne Botanical Gardens (B.
25/12/’35) recalls that remarkable Aus-
tralian botanist and landscape-gardener
William Guilfoyle, who made them what
they are to-day. Son of Michael Guil-
foyle, who had been trained under Sir
Joseph Paxton, he came as a small boy
to Sydney in the late 1840’s. His father
was one of the original grantees on the
Tweed River (N.S.W.), and took up
blocks for each of his five sons. William
sold the present site of Murwillumbah for
£lOO, in order to go away as assistant
botanist on the Challenger expedition.
Appointed to succeed Baron von Mueller
at the Botanical Gardens, he put an
artist’s soul into the job of converting a
wilderness and rubbish dump into a scene
of beauty, famous throughout the botani-
cal world. His brother John also did
notable work —the floral and arboreal en-
trances to Melbourne by the St. Kilda
and Sydney roads were his special efforts,
He had an adventurous early life in New
Guinea and the Island, and sailed awhile
as mate with Bully Hayes.


s*S
!
m ■
H
a
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
HK
,Representativts;, McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.._ Melbourne
Adoloid*. Perth 6.5.C.A.. 6rl»bana'
10-rZQUI-P*
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
January Issue Now on Sale.
PROSPECTS FOR 1936.
ARE SHARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
OUTLOOK FOR BASE METALS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
P$L
■
tt
ffl
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Having brought to light facts which
influenced the passing of the N.S.W.
Charitable Collections Act, The Bulle-
tin is interested to learn that the section
restricting public appeals to concerns
registered under the Act or exempt from
its operation comes into force on Feb-
ruary 1. At latest, registration had been
granted in 1161 cases and exemption in
624, while 110 applications had been
refused or withdrawn. It will now be
difficult for 'able-bodied persons with
brazen foreheads and oily tongues to
get a living at the “charity” game.
Hitherto it has been easy.
* * * t-
Thrifty as they are, the French have
been increasingly hostile to chain stores,
and the campaign against them has
taken many forms, such as thrusting de-
nunciatory pamphlets into trippers’ hands
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., is the name
of the new co. incorporated in Maoriland
to take over the bonds in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, Ltd. For each bond one £3O
ordinary share has been issued, the value
of the shares varying slightly according
to the date of the bond-issue (the timber
represented by some bonds is much
more advanced than in other cases).
The co. has been registered in accord-
ance with an order granted by the commis-
sion appointed under Companies (Bond-
holders Incorporation) Act, 1934-35 ; the
commission is to be approached later for
the purpose of simplifying the share
classification. Instead of vesting bond-
holders with shares carrying different
rights, as at present, it is suggested that
shares of a common denomination, but
in a greater or lesser number, should be
issued to each class of bondholder. This
would be a much more workable
method.
Later on ord. shareholders are to be
offered 1,700,000 pref. shares, div. rate
at present unspecified. This issue would
start the co. off with unencumbered
assets and £1,500,000 to finance manufac-
turing, development, etc.
N.Z.P.F. shareholders apparently re-
tain their proprietary rights in the sur-
plus funds of the old co. They also have
an interest in the new concern to the ex-
tent of the unsold bonds.
Bondholders may remain bondholders
if they wish. But they should heartily
welcome this opportunity of changing
into shares, otherwise they will represent
an unworkable minority who will have
to look after their own interests indi-
vidually.
As Britain Sees Us.
The British Trade Commissioner’s
report pn Australian conditions in
1934-35 Is exhaustive, but not so caustic
as in some previous years. It was pre-
pared by A. W. Burton ; Senior Commis-
sioner Dalton was in England during the
latter part of the period.
There is no enthusiasm in it for
Government financial methods. It is
pointed out that the public debt
“officially given at December, 1934, as
£1,237,122,393” is a purely nominal
sum arrived at by adding the local debt
in Australian currency to the London
debt unconverted from sterling, plus the
debt in U.S.A. converted at 4.8665
dollars to the £1 —Sydney rates at
present are 3.92 dollars to £l.
Reporting that in the year 1934-35
£39,000,000 was borrowed on the local
market, with £31,000,000 to be borrowed
in 1935-36, the Commissioner sensed a
feeling that the Governments are “over-
doing their borrowing,” and that either
it will have to be curtailed or interest
rates will have to be raised to attract
lenders —“an unfortunate development.”
Furthermore, he writes:
There is disappointment that the so-
called Premiers’ Plan has not been brought
to a successful completion. A prominent
feature of the plan was the objective of
balanced Budgets by 1933-34, but it will be
seen that this goal has not been reached,
and that there will be a substantial total
deficit even for 1935-36.
Others beside Mr. Burton are noticing
the drift to the bad old methods. But
every Treasurer loves a loan, cost what
it may.
“Y" can't get out 'ere, sport—We ain't now'ere near a station."
“ N-n-no; hut We're v-v-very near a l-long tunnel!"
as they wander about Paris, Now it is re-
ported by cable that the Ministry of
Commerce is introducing a bill limit-
ing chain stores to the number already
in existence, on the ground that they
are competing unfairly with other traders
and so disturbing industry. Simul-
taneously it was announced that Wool-
worths had made a record profit of
£5,298,000 in Britain last year, and would
be able to pay a 100 p.c. dividend. In
Australia the principal chain-store con-
cern reported a profit of £131,440 —
higher than that of any department-store
co., except Myer’s. Paid capital is
£945,960, of which £110,570 is bonus
scrip. In Melbourne the ords. (£1)
advanced from 665. 9d. to 71s. 6d. last
week.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Where have all the Freetraders
gone to? In Great Daily editorial offices
it has long ceased to be a practice,
when stuck for a subject, to heave rocks
at the tariff. Melbourne “Argus” re-
cently came out with a column of praise
for the Tariff Board, particularly on the
score of its contribution to “the pro-
motion of efficiency in Australian in-
dustry.” Almost every word of the
article in the old Cobdenite paper could
have been published with perfect con-
sistency by the “Age,” which has been
Protectionist from the beginning.
* * * *
So far Sydney business people have
had no reason to rejoice at the transfer
of the city electricity undertaking to a
County Council. Retailers who sell
electrical goods will have a legitimate
grievance if the new show starts com-
peting with them. The chairman, Lloyd,
M.L.A., in theory an uncompromising
anti-socialist', says he sees “no reason
why the County Council should remain
out of the profitable market.” If he can
find no reason in the boasted principles
of his party or in the practice—capri-
cious, certainly—of his Government,
which has been selling State quarries
and State pipeworks, another can be
found for him. Retailers pay thumping
rates and taxes —three income taxes in
N.S.W. alone, if they make profits. The
County Council will pay neither.
* * * *
Stewart, M.H.R., returned from
abroad with a firm faith in the extraction
of oil and petrol from coal by the hydro-
genation process ; and he says he was
told at Billingham-on-Tees that N. S.
Wales coal would yield 25 p.c. more
petrol than the coal treated there. At
Billingham-on-Tees there is a plant cap-
able of extracting 45,000,000 gallons of
motor spirit p.a. But it cost millions
to establish it, and Stewart has scared
even well-wishers by saying that a plant
could be set up on the northern N.S.W.
coalfields for “considerably less than
£10,000,000,” and also that “the Govern-
ment should take prompt action in the
matter.” If he means that the Govern-
ment should own and operate the thing,
the proposal does not appeal, but if
private enterprise took the initiative and
invited the Government to come in on a
half-interest-p/ws-one-share basis, the
thing would be worth considering, especi-
ally now that the miners have indicated
that they would be averse from blasting
the enterprise with a strike whenever the
Militant Minority movement bade them.
Meanwhile a company to exploit the
Lyons process (nominal capital £250,000)
has been launched. A committee, headed
by Professor Barraclough, of Sydney
University, has reported that “the ex-
perimental work” of the brothers Lyons
“has satisfactorily demonstrated the suit-
ability of Maitland coal for treatment
by low-temperature carbonisation.”
si: * * *
“S.J.”: A British judgment of interest
to those who conduct competitions for
prizes, and those who weigh in with
entrance fees, is reported in the London
“Times.” The competition mentioned in
the case was held to be a lottery because,
in the judging “some person unknown to
the competitors was perfectly at liberty
to act in an arbitrary or capricious or
mischievous manner.” It would appear
from this that, where an entry fee is
paid, the names of the judges must be
known and the competitors must have
some means of satisfying themselves that
the best or most-nearly-correct solution
has in fact been awarded the prize, to
keep within British law.
* * £ *
Bulls and bears (perhaps the same
people) are playing merry pranks with
Fiji scrip. One day it leaps; next day
it slides, or perhaps the up-and-down
movement is consummated in a day.
First day after the holidays Emperors
had sales at 18s., Koroeres at 11s. and
Lolomas at 355. 6d., soaring t'o 375.
In closing operations on Tuesday,
Emperors were sold at 16s. 4d.;
Koroeres at 10s. and Lolomas at 355.
l|d. And so it went on all the week.
Until these shows are further developed
and thoroughly equipped for large-scale
production, novices had better leave ’em
alone.
* * * ■*
Within the past few weeks the Bank
of England’s gold holding has stepped
up to over £200,000,000 (purchase price,
apparently). This is probably the greatest
amount of bullion ever held in the bank’s
history. A year ago the holding was
£192,000,000 ; in September, 1931 (when
Britain went off gold), the reserve was
£132,000,000 ; in October, 1930.
£157,000,000 ; while in November, 1928,
it was £161,000,000. Since October, 1930,
the note issue has increased from
£417,476,000 to £460,050,516—a1l by pur-
chase of gold. The fiduciary issue, in-
cluding the “Bradburys” taken over from
the Treasury in 1928, remains unchanged
at £260,000,000.
* * * =t=
“Nagheer”: A promising industry is
developing round Bowen (N.Q.) from
drying sliced mangoes. As the fruit does
not carry well and the season is short,
thousands of tons go to waste every
year. Soaked and stewed in the fashion
one adopts for dried apricots or
apples, dried mango makes a first-rate
fruit dish, with a particularly attractive
flavor. The drying process is simple,
and when the product gets fairly estab-
lished on southern markets there should
be an extensive sale.
t * * *
Not many of us can say that a nation
cherished our portraits next its heart for
years when they could be got. One who
could make the boast, F. J. Smith,
has died at Bendigo, where he was
manager of the Central Nell Gwynne
mine. The first Commonwealth notes
had on the back engravings depicting
Australian scenes and industries ; on the
back of the one-pounders was a delinea-
tion of three miners working at a drill
underground in the Victoria mine. Smith
was one of the men in the picture, which
was engraved from a flashlight photo-
graph. The others, both dead long since,
were J. Healy and J. Beveridge.


ELOCUTIONISTS. —Typed recitals every de-
scription, many new and original selections.
Beryl Alford, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
EYE LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. RO S E &. Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
MANLY GRAMMAR SCHOOL (GIRLS)
Character building studied; examination successes.
About 25 boarders taken —ages from five years upwards. Fees very moderate.
Write for prospectus, or arrange interview after February 1.
PRINCIPAL, MANLY GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
ASWRITKXER STREET, MANLY, N.S.M.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Admiralty House is now being reno-
vated and refurbished for Lord Gowrie
and his lady with the sweet, quick
smile. Lord Gowrie will be sworn
in on January 22, and his first visit to
this city as G.-G. will be for the Anni-
versary Day regatta. From here he sails
off to Hobart’s regatta.
It was quite a good move for the
A.B.C. to shift the “Rose Cavalier” cast
over to the ballroom of the Arts Club.
Even then there was not too much space
for orchestra and cast and the quite large
audience. The place throbbed with
excitement from a quarter to eight. While
violins and other instruments tuned up
De Abravanel’s black head and Joseph
Post’s sleeker one bent to each other in
converse. Austral arrived in a rose-and-
gold tissue frock, and someone won-
dered if she had made it herself, as she
had done her very successful stage
raiment for “Tristan and Isolde.” The
Hugh Wards came in with Mrs. Horner.
iMrs. Marotta, who sang the part of
Octavian, entered in a snow-white coat.
Raymond Beatty, Charles Nicis and
Lionello Cecil (he sang the poet’s song in
an inspiring manner) were among the
gazed-upon. So was Mary MacCormick,
whose gold-flecked hair rose above black
laces. Thea Phillips, of the melting eyes,
was there. Mrs. Roland Foster and
Mrs. Florence Taylor were glimpsed ; so
was half musical Sydney, including Lute
Drummond, whose blue chiffons showed
the fashionable Greek tendency, and who
told of having been present in her student
days at the opera’s premiere in Dresden,
when Strauss himself was present.
What with the Bessemer Clarks going
on board and the boxer Van Klaveren
being taken off, the Mariposa on Wednes-
day morning presented a spirited scene.
Ivan Menzies and Jack Crawford came
to wave farewell to the newly-wedded
pair from Melbourne, and seemingly
dozens went down just to have a pro-
longed gaze at Melbourne’s most photo-
graphed bride of the week. She created
a new style for the deck-end holder of
the farewell streamer, and wore a silver
riband about her locks. It looked quite
pictorial with her old-rose frock and
brunette fox furs. Nancy Goldfinch,
facing London and matrimony with her
Kenneth Hargreaves, was another active
centre of farewells. Lady Bridport and
her Viscount, both in grey, went off to
Maoriland, where even the girls of the
Southland can show nothing better in the
way of crisp, clear complexions.
Arts and Crafters are making Lewis
Jarvis Harvey welcome to the Harbor
City once more. Lewis Jarvis is art
director of Brisbane Tech. College, and
he generally comes south during the
summer vacation. He is an enthusiastic
modeller; a kookaburra and a female
abo. head, the work of his hands, adorn
Rubery Bennett’s gallery. But there is
something he takes more pride in, and
that is the work being done at his classes
with those suffering from infantile
paralysis. Through the handling of clay
one little girl has regained the use of
her fingers and increased her powers of
concentration. The youngster had been
put on the road to recovery by Sister
Kenny’s clinic. At Christmastime a
nicely-modelled bowl arrived in sister’s
mail from her grateful Brisbane patient.
Belgium’s Consul-General is radiating
satisfaction over the birth of a new
grandson, John Fraser Coss, who was
born in London on January 6. Mrs.
Coss was formerly Sophie Segaert, and
her mother was with her for the great
event. The Fraser Coss couple have their
home at Mill Hill, London ; the young
man, who went abroad with the
idea of becoming a singer, has fulfilled
his desire, and is becoming well known
in the musical world. At present he is
singing with Lance Fairfax in J. B.
Cochran’s new production “Follow the
Sun.”
Sydney’s newly-formed Women’s Sym-
phony Orchestra has given itself a chris-
tening party. Its conductor and organiser,
Mrs. Elizabeth Jensen, is Australian-
born, and Sydney is her home town.
Mrs. Jensen, who spent some years in
England, was instructor and senior con-
ductor of the London County Council’s
Literary Institute’s orchestra. She was
a fellow of London’s Royal Philharmonic
Society, was associated with the R.A.M.
and other noted schools of music, and
was a director of orchestral training at
the Watford Con. The orchestra gives
its first performance to-night. Dorothy
Welding made this portrait of Mrs.
Jensen.
Maoriland will have an interest in the
new Memorial College of Household
Arts and Science, soon to be opened at
Kirribilli. Its first principal will be Wini-
fred Stenhouse, from Otago, who arrived
in Sydney by the Makura last Saturday.
Winifred was one of Otago University’s
experts on dietetics. After graduating in
domestic science in the college, whose
grounds are threaded by a stream that
might have been the original of Tenny-
son’s brook, Miss Stenhouse studied the
question in America, where an army of
diet charts continually war against
dyspepsia and the national inclination
to pie.
The school is next door to the home
of Dr. Mary Booth, one of the group of
professional and educational women re-
sponsible for its foundation; it is
named in memory of the pioneer house-
wives of Australia, who lacked every-
thing in the way of household conveni-
ences, ancient or modern. Time was
when the ladies in Balmain had to row
to town for their daily food supply.
Now their descendants not only have the
very best food supplies of the world
brought to their doors, but can get ex-
pert training in their preparation. The
college will take girls of after-school
years, and its course is planned to train
not only for home-making, but to give
its students a professional status.
The Alexander Gordons are going to
have a wedding in the family. Alex-
ander, only son of the knight and his
popular wife, has become engaged to
Elizabeth Jean, only daughter of D. K.
Shannon, of Lismore. Alexander is an
announcer for the A.B.C. In addition,
he is a writer. Plays and stories flow
from his pen, and he has humor in him
as well as drama.
Theatre-goers of a former generation
still remember Lillah McCarthy, who
toured Australia with “The Sign of the
Cross.” Sydney is now to make the
acquaintance of her three nieces, Peggy,
Rose and Vera Hutchinson, who are just
arrived from London’s acting and danc-
ing world, and intend to make their
home here. The three sisters went to
London from Maoriland, and Rose made
appearances in “The Barretts of Wimpole
Street,” “The Country Wife” and other
stage successes. If Rose is going to emu-
late her famous aunt she has hard work
ahead. At 16 years of age Lillah was a
leading lady, playing such parts as Juliet,
Ophelia, JDesdemona, Peg Woffington
and Lady Teazle.
Nobody can claim that Sydney is too
slow to catch snails. At no fewer than
three parties last week this Letter was
offered the little creature in its horned
shell. When they are served, stretch for
the little sliver of wood like a toothpick
placed near your plate, and pick the
French visitor out just as you’d pick a
Bondi periwinkle. You’ll find he’s been
dressed piquantly with garlic and herbs,
or maybe sauce. If the latter, look for
the sauce in the shell. Then lift shell to
lip and drain. At one punch-drinking
patties of frogs’ legs were nibbled by all.
Does improvement in French accent
follow increase in French palate? If
so, what a sale for the snails in young
ladies’ academies!
Gladys Verona will be the Rosina of
the A.B.C.’s presentation of “The Barber
of Seville.” Gladys’s clear, silvery voice
is ideally suited to this gaiety. Another
Australian will get a chance in this opera.
Edmund Butterworth will sing the part
of the match-making Barber.
“The nicest visitors this Zoo has ever
known,” was the chimpanzee’s verdict
after the Cherry Keartons had called on
him at Taronga one day last week. The
naturalist and big-game hunter cooed
some of its native wood notes wild to
the chimpanzee, and the creature looked
up intently at this human who seemed to
know jungle talk. Colonel Spain spread
a lunch in honor of these two pleasant
people, and among the guests were mem-
bers of the Taronga Park Trust and T.
C. Roughley, president of the N.S.W.
Royal Zoological Society. Stories of
Mary Kearton (her pet chimpanzee,
now, alas! no more) kept Mrs. Kearton’s
end of the table in rapt attention. Mr.
Kearton is anxious to make a film of
the lyrebird at home. Something good
should come of the shots made by this
master of jungle and animal photo-
graphy.
Viscountess Bridport, unlike some of
this city’s recent visitors, did Sydney
the honor of wearing some of the smart-
est hats and frocks seen over the
Christmas season. She and her viscount
have just gone off to Maoriland, adding
that country to a list which includes Ice-
land, Spitzbergen, Java and India, and
which will be lengthened by a few more
before their world walkabout ends in
six months’ time. Dorothy Welding
made the portrait.
Katharine Young, secretary of Sydney’s
Uni. Women Graduates’ Assoc., is lift-
ing her voice even through the wilderness
of the uni. vacation in the matter of
the Swiss Hospitality Fellowship. This
is offered by the Geneva branch of the
Swiss A.U.W., and lasts for four weeks,
from the end of August to the end of
September of this year, carrying with it
in the case of non-European candidates
a travel allowance limited to 300 Swiss
francs. The idea is to give members of
other European and overseas associations
an opportunity of staying at Geneva while
the great international meetings are being
held (League of Nations Assembly and
such)" and of attending the World Con-
gress of Youth. The fellowship goes to
her who presents the best paper in French
or English on “The Influence of the Work
of the League in Our Country” or one
of two alternative subjects. Mrs. Sher-
rard, 43 Robertson-road, Centennial
Park, the secretary of the Australian
Federation of Uni. Women, has the
answer to all inquiries.
Henry White, the architect who de-
signed such gilded halls of celluloid
wonder fare as the State Theatre and St.
James’s, has rented his home, Schofield
House, in Wolsely-road, Point Piper, to
Mrs. Whitcombe, from Maoriland. This
lady is throwing it open for dances,
dinners and every sort of party. Scho-
field House is one of the old homes of
Point Piper. It was first named St. Mar-
tin’s, and it is set in a nice old garden
with lawns that are terraced to the
water’s edge. Two swimming pools sug-
gest afternoon-bathing parties, and the
way to them is lit with lamps on some
of Sydney’s first lamp-posts. These
relics of the ’nineties occur at various
turnings in the grounds.
Mrs. Whitcombe, incidentally, is a
descendant of the first white woman
born in Enzed. A great-great-grand-
father skippered the ship that brought
the first missionaries to the land of
quakes. One of the household treasures
is a punchbowl that stands several feet
high, and is made entirely of crystal and
silver. It was filled to the brim with
punch made of pirates’ blood when the
place had its first party. Bertie Lloyd
and Henry White helped to dispense the
ruby drink, and John Garlick made a
speech. Mrs. Bertie was there in black-
and-white ; Mrs. Harry Neville, just back
from Europe, was smart in navy; Mrs.
David Knox wore red-spotted tiger-lilies
against her black frock; black, too, was
the choice of Miss J. Marks. Hilda
Mulligan’s cocktail coat, all red-rose and
flowery-spray embroidered on a black
ground, was the envy of all.
Winsome Jennings, who has just be-
come engaged to Hugh Foster, a son of
the M.L.A., comes from Muswellbrook,
where she and her sisters Clee and Joy
have lived since they left Collaroy, the
old station home at Merriwa. Her father
was the well-known Alfred Jennings, and
her mother was for some time president
of the Merriwa branch of the C.W.A.
Winsome herself was public-spirited
enough when just through her Arts course
at Sydney Uni. to take up the work of
secretary to the local branch of the
C.W.A. She is a writer, and has pub-
lished both prose and verse, and she is
a niece of Dr. Weston Maher, of Mac-
quarie-street.
The Royal Society for the Welfare
of Mothers and Babies is establishing a
new training-school in mothercraft. It
will be opened in March, and will be
the third home of its kind conducted by
the society. The Lady Edeline hospital
at Vaucluse has been taken over for the
purpose, and will be known as Tresil-
lian, Vaucluse. To make this third
Tresillian worthy its sister homes,
Tresillian, Petersham, and Tresillian,
North, alterations and equipment costing
over £2OOO are necessary. An appeal
for funds is being made especially to
those whose babes have benefited by the .
society’s work.


WE OFFER
WHAT i
Most II
Desire
Homely com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney.
vli
IWENTWORTH Hotel
BRIDGE PARR
SYDNEY
BWI3GI
Melbourne
Chatter
Victoria provides scope for all tastes
in holidays: beaches, links and tennis
courts, and the hills for hiking and rid-
ing. Further afield are rocky precipices
which inspire longing in the hearts of
sturdy climbers, and there are plenty of
good motor roads. Trailers are fairly
common, but cars with swags strapped
to roof, bumpers and running-board are
a more usual sight. Major and Mrs.
Johnnie Coleman recently went off on a
journey of discovery through the Gram-
pians ; their car has slip-down seats, so
they did not bother about a tent. The
Fred Raes make an annual tour with
a caravan hitched to their car. This
van, which contains real spring bunks,
spends 49 weeks out of the 52 hidden
away in a shed.
Nell Clark, who is on the staff of the
National Museum, couldn’t get away
from work even in her holidays; she
took a pick and a shovel and set off for
Buffalo to dig yabbies, bringing back
with her 138 species.
The caravan has arrived, but so far
it is such a rarity as to cause excitement
on Victorian roads. One such vehicle,
quite new and painted an exquiste sea-
green, can be hired for £3 per week. It
has four bunks, collapsible chairs and
tables, starched dimity curtains over the
windows, electric-light, a wardrobe, an
ice-box, saucepans, cutlery and plates,
all fitted into grooved slots. There is a
stainless sink, with a tap from an over-
head tank ; two Primus stoves do the
cooking, and fly-wire covers windows and
door. Under each corner of the van is
a collapsible “leg,” so that the home on
wheels can be parked in a convenient
camping place while its inhabitants roam
abroad in their car. This particular
caravan pulls quite easily over the twists
and turns of the Ocean-road —the only
thing it won’t do is push backwards. On
its first journey away from Melbourne
it was pulled over three miles of tar
(being watered by two men with
childrens’ watering-cans). There was no
room to turn on the narrow road, and
the sullied beauty of the van nearly broke
the hearts of its passengers. They got
it clean at last, but butter as a solvent
would have saved them a lot of hard
work.
Last week Macedon was to have been
very social for its tennis tournament.
Rain stopped the tennis, but everyone
managed to be social just the same, with
bridge and poker and logfires. The
tournament was postponed until a later
date, but the tennis dance which is the
usual wind-up after three days’ tennis
play took place in the C.W.A. Hall. The
party was just like a do at a private
home, for everybody knew everybody
else, and supper came out of the kitchens
belonging to the lovely homes which
make Macedon so famous.
The George Landales were there, Mrs.
Landale in cigar-brown lace. Janet
Landale wore floral chiffon, and her
co-organiser of the tennis tournament,
Beverley Lansell, was in Patou-pink
satin. Beryl Cowper also wore pink, with
frills swishing round the ankles ; equally
tall Pat Newbigin was in rust-red taffetas.
Blonde Betty Walker wore off-white
crepe; Joan Andrew and Betty Timmins
chose black, Diana Landale honey-
colored crepe, and Rene Crooke two
shades of leaf-brown.
As a preliminary to the dance, the
Chris Cowpers gave a cocktail-party at
their home with the intriguing name-
plate of Ard Rudah. The house was
filled with flowers, as homes at Macedon
always are, for growing things seem to
take a pride in doing justice to the moun-
tain soil and air. Mrs. Cowper wore
black, with an expanse of black mil-
linery. Maisie is away on a seaside holi-
day, but Beryl and her guests Betty
Timmins and Pat Newbigin helped to
do the honors.
Sydney visitors have been saying good-
bye to their friends this week. Belle
Gresham shook cocktails at the Oriental
before taking the long road home by
car. Mrs. Jim Salmon, who has been in
Melbourne since October, gave a bridge
party at New Grosvenor (now in
Queen’s-road). Her frock of beige crepe
was worn with a light-weight coat with
cape sleeves and a swinging back. The
hostess greeted her guests in the drawing-
room, marshalled them into fours in the
lounge and gathered them together for
tea in the dining-room.
A large crowd swelled by bargain-
hunters shared in the reflected glory of
the Clark-Brookes wedding. Outside St.
Paul’s the police had plenty of exercise
keeping the solid mass of people from
trampling on one another; the sight-
seers themselves got their exercise swat-
ting flies —for Melbourne’s fly plague
went to the wedding in mass formation.
The leading ladies and gentlemen in the
pageant arrived safe, but many of the
guests, who expected a wedding to be a
wedding and not a football scrum,
couldn’t get within 100 yards of the
church.
At Raveloe for the reception the
flowers were marvellous to look at, but
their perfume, augmented by the heavy
scent of the bridal bouquets of mag-
nolias, was in such humid weather some-
what overpowering. Many guests cut
out looking at the presents, and, after
greeting members of the wedding pro-
cession, made straight for the garden.
Then were all gathered together indoors
for Archbishop Head to give a grace
and blessing before the buffet-meal com-
menced.
Here is a Dickinson-Monteath photo-
graph of Lesley Fleming-Dunstan, who,
with her mother and younger sister
Valmai, has returned from 10 months
abroad. The travellers found Germany
cheap to live in and Austria beautiful
but depressing. They spent most of their
time in Italy. As they speak Italian, they
had an opportunity of getting some
inkling of the feeling of the country.
Their impressions are that only in the
very early stages of the war was there
any enthusiasm about the rolling of
drums and the waving of flags. One
young officer said to the girls, “We
should like to see Mussolini and Anthony
Eden go into the ring together and fight
out their sanctions with boxing-gloves.”
Margaret Brown, daughter of the late
David Brown and Mrs. Brown, of
Mercer-road, Malvern, had on her wed-
ding day a scenic background of snow and
sparkling frost, for the ceremony took
place on December 30 in Quebec. The
’groom, Roland Alers Hankey, of Ver-
nan, British Columbia, is a relative of Sir
Maurice Hankey, who with his wife visited
Melbourne during the centenary. The
newly-wedded Mrs. Hankey was one of
our keenest Girl Guides. She left here
four years ago, and in England continued
her Guide work and received her Eagle
Owl, a mark of high ranking and pro-
ficiency. The atmosphere of books
attracted her, and in London she got
positions first in Lady Verney’s children’s
library and later at the Junior Book
Club.
In future the fountain at the Shrine
corner will be illuminated with white
instead of colored lights. About £3OO a
year will be saved by the change, which
also is being justified on the ground
that the lights which flicker through the
colors of the rainbow over the fountain
and under the water are out of place in
the proximity of the war memorial. The
carnival coloring has been compared with
chocolate creams —very welcome some-
times, but nauseating as an everyday
diet.
Talking of diet, here’s a menu for
one day—6oo earthworms, ldoz. yab-
bies, 2doz. tadpoles and one hard-
boiled egg. Hardly an appetising meal,
but everyone to his taste. The earth-
worms, etc., are the daily ration of the
platypus at the Zoo. Recently the larder
was almost empty, and Mr. Fleay was
glad to pay small boys and girls Is. per
tin for worms. Supply soon vastly ex-
ceeded demand. What a much more
worrying thing it would be for Mr. Fleay
if the supplies of old horse gave out and
the ravenous lions and tigers started to
eat one another. Making meals for jungle
carnivora is an ungallant finish for
horses, for though they may not be
worth much these days they have always
been man’s good friends and uncom-
plaining helpers.
Here is a golfer who has performed
the remarkable feat of twice holing : n
one. Mrs. T. A. Scheps plays in the B
pennant team for Victoria Links. In
July she was astonished to see her iron
shot played from the 7th tee roll snugly
into the hole 152 yards away. Last
week, also on her home links, she re-
peated with a mashie the same clock-
work performance at the shorter 4th.
Members of the hole-in-one club are
always presented with a certificate deco-
rated with a Bateman drawing, and the
ball used for the perfect shot is mounted
by the makers. Presentation whisky
balances the bottle which is opened for
everybody at the 19th. Broothorn made
the portrait.
The broadcast to Australia of the per-
formance of Wagner’s “Gotterdam-
merung,” with Margery Lawrence, of
Melbourne, as Brunnhilde, at the Metro-
politan Opera House, New York, on
Sunday, brings back memories of the
singer’s early efforts to establish herself
as a singer. Her first public appearance
was at Colac, not far from where she
was born. She entered in the local com-
petitions, and other competitors laughed
at her rough, uneven tone and awkward
stance. But two years later, after tuition
from Ivor Boustead in Melbourne, she
was a competitor at Geelong, and wiped
the floor with those who once jeered at
her. She was so good that' she was
immediately packed off to Dinh Gilly in
Paris for further training. Success after
success followed, culminating in engage-
ments with the Paris Opera House, and
now the New York Metropolitan, Mecca
of all singers.
Gregan McMahon is having the pro-
duction of “The Millionairess” thrust
upon him. A month ago he received from
Bernard Shaw the privately-printed un-
published rough proof, but had not seri-
ously considered making a season of the
play until last week, when various people
got a glimpse of the scrip, and all asked
about dates and casting. The play opens
on a humorous note, with Epifania burst-
ing like a tempest into a legal office. “Are
you Julius Segamore, the worthless
nephew of my late solicitor Pontifax
Segamore?” “I do not advertise myself
as worthless, but Pontifax Segamore was
my uncle, and I have returned from Aus-
tralia to succeed to as much of his busi-
ness as I can persuade his clients to en-
trust to me.” Epifania is a business-
woman with a good head for organisa-
tion, but when she tries to organise love
she crashes. She is a very athletic
heroine, and when he annoys her she
knocks unconscious her professional-
pugilist husband Alistair. Epifania will
be a difficult character to cast.
Though they have never met, Bernard
Shaw and Gregan McMahon have been
friends on paper for 20 years. During
the war McMahon wrote for Shaw’s per-
mission to produce “Candida.” Shaw
was away, and his secretary, a woman
(who, incidentally, still holds the job),
sent the necessary O.K. When Shaw
returned he was very angry at his secre-
tary’s presumption, and said so in a letter
to McMahon which contained the phrase
“For all I know you might be like the
unnamed character in ‘Measure for
Measure.’ ” McMahon had to plough
through the Shakspearean play half a
dozen times before he discovered that
the clue to the puzzle was one line which
referred to a “thieving pirate.”
There is scope for the inventive genius
who can patent the squeakless concert-
hall chair. The article must be light,
collapsible, easily moved and moderate
in cost. From £l5OO to £l7OO is the
sum which the Town Hall committee is
requesting the City Fathers to spend
upon new seating accommodation for
the Town Hall. The old chairs are very
uncomfortable, their backs are at the
wrong angles for human spines, and
they are so hard that even the most
enthusiastic music-lover begins to twist
and turn half-way through a concert.
Several examples of squeakless chairs
have been examined by the Town Clerk
and his associates, but so far their affec-
tion has not been enlisted. Judging by
the inquiries from would-be purchasers,
the old chairs (squeaks and all) will not
be left long on the hands of the com-
mittee.
Delegates from the Victorian Women’s
Amateur Swimming League had a chat
last week and decided that they did not
care about the word chaperon. The
titles matron and manageress also had
few supporters, and finally, on the chair-
woman’s suggestion, the title lady-in-
charge was adopted. As there is no
money available for the expenses of the
duenna, Mrs. Sanders, who was one of
the selectors, offered to carry out the
duties of chaperonage—her proposed
holiday to S.A. and Westralia will co-
incide with the Vic. team’s inter-St'ate
visits.
The swimming folk are old-fashioned
in choosing the word “lady.” The word
no longer carries the fine shade of mean-
ing it had in early-Victorian drawing-
rooms. Nowadays, except in individual
cases, when they are “girls” till they die,
feminine citizens over 25 are usually
referred to as women, softened when
possible by the somewhat' elastic adjec-
tive “young.”
One night last week the National Bank
for no apparent reason burst forth with
an extra amount of lighting across its
fa?ade. A bucolic and slightly alcoholic
gentleman on the other side of the street
paused in his uncertain stride to blink
at the building. “Well, well, well,” he
murmured, “another centenary. This last
hundred years has gone pretty quickly.”
Some of the newest bathing suits which
take to the waters are of clingless cam-
bric. This fabric, which should be worn
only by the young and very slim, comes
in stripes, checks and diminutive floral
patternings. Knitted woollen costumes
are more shapely this year than they
have ever been before; tucks, gathers
and gussets relieve the severity of the top
of the suit, and the slightly-flared skirts
which fit over the tight little pants are a
change from the tubular tunics of past
seasons. Halter necks are popular, and
handkerchief tops have pushed into the
background last year’s suits which pro-
vided for a sunburned diaphragm. There’s
a lot to be said for these adjustable hankie
tops, for as long as the neck piece is
moved now and again, the whole area
of back and shoulders will deepen to the
same even coffee color (that’s if the
owner of the shoulders is lucky and
doesn’t proceed through vivid prawn-pink
tc a mass of freckles). Thus there will
be no difficulty about the color line for
evening frocks. A crisscross sunburned
pattern is decorating the sides of a dash-
ing young woman who swims at Sor-
rento. Her crinkly woollen suit is split
down the seams and laced together
loosely with cords of the Rule Britannia
colors of red, white and blue.
Tight little bows in the hair which are
newer than ribbons round the head are
usually worn in twos and sometimes
threes. Sometimes one is right on top
of the head and the others lower down,
or the pair might lie behind one ear.
Often the ribbons are in two shades of
the one color, or for variety they can be
of different colors. It’s a quaint fashion
and suits a young face and a fluffy head.
The optical shops are rejoicing in the
craze for dark glasses with bright rims,
but the milliners are not so happy over
the encroaching hatless fashion, for more
and more women are being seen without
hats at parties and in the street.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
the only son (aged 40-50 years) of the late
THOMAS STEPHENSON, who emigrated with
his brothers William and John Stephenson
from Donegal, Ireland, after the year 1870,
and who first married in Australia (where the
said son was born prior to 1896), and sub-
sequently married Ane Chatrine Hansen in
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand, where he was
accidentally killed in 1896, kindly communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hastings, New Zealand, immediately?
Personal.
SHORT-STORIES WANTED; Romantic plots
with Australian atmosphere but no slang
figures of speech; for publication in English,
American and Indian periodicals. Lengths,
1-5 thous. Send stamp with MSS. (NOT
stamped envelope).—S. CHRISTOPHER
ROBINSON, Film, Dramatic and Literary
Agents, 37 Mortimer Market, London, W.C.I,
England.
Molhersills
asMriHi
STOPS TRAVEL
SICKNESS bu
SEA, AIR and
TRAIN
2
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1916 of 1935.
BETWEEN THOMAS WALLACE COOK
Petitioner
And LENA ANDERINA COOK Re-
spondent.
TO LENA ANDERINA COOK late of Surry
Hills near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
WALLACE COOK has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a Dissolution of Marriage on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Nineteenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of Decem-
ber, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. R. WISH ART, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A FEAST OF FUN
“The Great Book of Humor”
768 Pages—so Masterpieces of Humor by 50
World-famous Authors. Wodehouse, Priestley,
Milne, Jacobs, Chesterton, Leacock, etc., etc.
Special Concession Offer to Readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue.
On Sale All Newsagents—PßlCE 6dt.
THE KING’S SCHOOL
(PARRAMATTA)
I
m
1
mm
Mm
: m
Extensive modern additions made in
1934-35. New classrooms, laboratories,
dormitories, modern swimming pool.
Vacancies for 1936
APPLY THE HEADMASTER
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The dressing at the races was dis-
appointing ; there were few freak frocks,
and the trailing draperies seen of yore
were the exception rather than the rule.
Fair punters were for the most part in
crisp linens, cool voiles and other wash-
able materials, which were attractive and
sensible. Mrs. Langlois Lefroy kept up
tradition in soft-blue crepe inlet with
Paris-tinted laces. Mrs. Lucius Man-
ning’s wide green hat shaded green floral
georgettes ; bell sleeves of net were at-
tached to Madeleine Durack’s pink
jumper suit; Mavis Holmes was in all-
white linen, and Dorothy Balston swung
a cape with her blue floral ensemble.
Feathered hats were popular. Ospreys
sprouted on the black hat worn with
Mrs. W. Nairn’s hand-embroidered blue
georgettes ; Mrs. J. L. B. Weir’s mush-
room-pink laces were topped by a pink-
feathered brown hat; a shaded blue
plume waved on Mrs. T. A. L. Davy’s
black cartwheel, and a pink curling one
had been plucked from an ostrich to
adorn the navy hat worn with Mrs.
Theodore Ambrose’s navy - and - white
floral silks.
Karrinyup Country Club had its
lounge and dining-room arranged in
banks of massed blooms in every shape,
size and hue for its ball. In spite of the
hundreds, there seemed to be room for
everyone, as reception-rooms and veran-
dah were used for dancing. Bonnie
Spencer stepped into the revels from an
old-world picture, her stiff floral taffetas
held in place with narrow shoulder-
straps and flaring from the waist to a
yards-around hem which swept the floor.
Margot Law’s red crepe ninon followed
the fulness-to-the-front line, with a Toby
dog-collar and a hem finishing of black
net. Muriel Lee Steere’s brown taffetas
were shot with molten ore ; Judy Clark-
son had lashings of gold on her green
crepe suede; Marjorie Calthrop was
Athenian in draperies of white sheer
crepe, and Barbie Clarke had a silver
glint on her bouffant-blue taffetas.
The Clough-Maxwell wedding was an
all-pink ceremony at St. Mary’s, West
Perth. Bride Mabel’s silver-embossed
matt crepes travelled in a faint blush over
a gathered front, slit back and sleeves
to a circular train, with a dawnlike
cloud of tulle floating from a waist of
silver lame over the whole outfit. Train-
bearer Jeanette Bannan was girt with
layers of the same tulle shirred into a
lace yoke. Marion Middleton and Joy
Clough followed, with floating panel
trains attached to their deeper-pink silk
crepes. Osprey plumes nodded on their
wide pink hats.
For Mt. Yokine Golf Club’s dance the
clubhouse was decked with hydrangeas,
gladioli and petunias shading from pale
pink to deepest purple, and the trees
round about were entwined with festoons
of colored lights. Committeewoman
Mrs. Oscar Negus draped her lissom
lines with sherry lace; scarlet flowers
bloomed on Dorothy Royce’s white
georgettes; Peggy Gillespie was moth-
like in grey-and-silver-striped satin, and
yards of softest-pink ninon were swathed
on Mrs. Howard Bonner. Edith Barry-
more alternated brown, green and white
on her striped satins, and Mrs. R. Love-
grove spilled largesse on her white
matelasse.
To celebrate her son Slade’s coming-
of-age, Mrs. O. Drake-Brockman shook
cocktails at her home in West Perth.
The hostess was set about with beige
Chantilly lace, and daughter Pamela
poured the liquid in red-and-white-
spotted silks.
Signora J. Adami (she who was
Josephine Hardwicke) arrived from her
home in Italy with small daughter
Annetta. Mrs. C. W. Arnott decked her
house with red flowering gum, and in-
vited a host of the visitor’s friends to a
tea and welcome.
Violet and Mavis Holmes sat at either
end of tea-tables grouped in the Palace
Hotel as a welcome for Mrs. V. Secombe.
Navy accessories were worn with the
guest of honor’s trim white linen suit.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Angas Parsons couple have had
an avalanche of congratulations upon the
knighthood conferred on the head of the
house. They are both very popular. The
Parsons lady is at present the guest of her
son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.
Geoffrey Angas Parsons, at Pewsey Vale.
Clive Gaunt, a Melbourne visitor, is,
with his son, the guest of the Lavington
Bonythons at Mount Lofty. Mr. and
Mrs. Gaunt, after having lived for many
years in Rangoon, have now settled in
Victoria.
Dr. B. E. Wurm, formerly of Croy-
don (S.A.), who has been studying in
England and Ireland and Vienna, is re-
turning by the Moldavia, accompanied by
his wife and two children. They arrive
on January 25.
Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Hayward will
arrive back in Adelaide on January 18
after an extended honeymoon abroad.
They will go to Wairoa, the home of
Mrs. Hayward’s parents in the summer
months at Aldgate, and be the guests of
Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith.
Chasing wide-brimmed hats at every
race-meeting fills in the dull time be-
tween the races. The hat-designer
responsible for the low crowns must live
in a place where wind is unknown. At
the last meeting at Morphettville, some
of the women got so tired of pursuing
their lids that at last they walked about
with them in their hands and allowed the
wind to play havoc with their permanent
waves.
Lady Dugan, still in Court mourning,
wore a black woollen georgette coat over
a white marocain frock,with silver fox fur.
The coat had a short-sleeve effect; the
small black straw hat was relieved by a
white flower. Mrs. Hazelden chose a
black delustred-satin toilette, the short
cape being lined with white satin, and her
black straw hat had the- peaked brim.
Mrs. Whyte was wearing a navy-blue-
tailored suit, a navy straw hat and a
blue-and-white silk scarf. The Premier’s
wife, Mrs. R. L. Butler, also chose navy
for her wool-georgette ensemble, spotted
in a lighter tone ; the new hip-length cape
was worn, and a becoming navy straw
hat. Her daughter Jean wore a white-
and-blue-figured silk frock and a halo
hat. Mrs. R. M. Cudmore was in black-
figured chiffon and a wide-brimmed
black straw hat. An English visitor,
Lady Twyford, had a black wool-geor-
gette toilette and a black hat with
touches of white.
A visitor from Melbourne, who
passed through Adelaide en route for
Port Pirie on a visit to her parents, >s
Mrs. Gordon Fletcher, who was mar-
ried in Adelaide last year. Formerly
Miss Dorothy Dibdin, she is a clever
young artist, commercial art especially.
The Dibdins are an artistic family, a
younger sister, Marjory, still in her teens,
is following in Mrs. Fletcher’s foot-
steps, and is planning later to join her
sister in Melbourne.
Professor and Mrs. G. V. Portus, who
have been residing at Blackwood in the
hills, have decided to come to the city
for the winter months, when so much of
interest will be happening owing to the
centenary.
The Premier and Mrs. R. L. Butler
with their daughter Jean and son Layton
have gone to Glenelg for a month from
January 13. They have taken Mr. Whit-
more Carr’s delightful home.
Miss Heather Gell has gone down to
Mount Breckan, Victor Harbor, for a
rest after the strenuous time she had
producing her play “Fulfilment.” She
is accompanied by Dr. Margaret Haslam,
a niece of Dr. Phoebe Chappie, who has
just completed her medical course.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark went
to the fair at Bushy Park, home of the
giant gooseberry. The weather was
superb, and the whole district rolled up
to the show.
The races at Mowbray drew a big
crowd, among them several mainlanders,
showing that the shipping strike has not
upset the plans of all who meant to spend
their summer holidays in the Speck.
Frocking was varied, and the high wind
played havoc with the hats, which are a
menace to every woman’s pleasure in this
land of breezes. Navy blue was the
favorite wear. For the Summer Cup
meeting the weather was perfect, and
dressing was more summery, though
navy, relieved with white or floral touches
or a white fine stripe, was again much to
the fore. In the throng were to be seen
the Guy Merediths, Mrs. Geoff Martin,
Mrs. Irvine Douglas (Canberra), the
Andrew Raeburns, the T. A. Fields, Mrs.
D. Thompson, Mrs. R. Murray, the G.
Hogarths, Mrs. J. R. Robertson (N.S.W.),
Mrs. Bridgeford (Vic.), Mrs. MacKenzie
Henry (Vic.), Mrs. J. T. McVann
(Sydney) and Elizabeth Ratten (Mel-
bourne).
Accomodation houses at both ends of
the Great Lake were well filled during
the holidays, but people with young
families made for the seaside for prefer-
ence. Brown’s River was crowded,
Falmouth and the Heads had an invasion,
and the East Coast’s population was aug-
mented by hundreds.
“Bondi-ite”: Spoonerism, after a half-
hearted mention as the summer ap-
proached, is dead in Melbourne. The
beaches are filled with brassiered dam-
sels, and the top garment has disappeared
from the male bather, despite the fact
that such revelation is illegal. Prosecu-
tions have not yet taken place, but one
enterprising lawyer is ready with Lon-
don illustrated papers showing the Prince
of Wales and other notables clad only
in trunks. The first policeman to enter
the box to prosecute will probably be
handed these journals and asked whether
he would summon royalties and such-
like for indecent behavior.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In Letters of John Bailey
there is quoted, as an example of felicity
spiced with humor in after-dinner oratory,
a response by the poet A. E. Housman
(“The Shropshire Lad”) to the toast of
his health at a Cambridge function:
Cambridge has seen many remarkable
sights. It has seen Wordsworth drunk.
It has seen Porson sober. I am a greater
scholar than Wordsworth and a greater
poet than Porson. It sees me betwixt and
between.
Certainly a notable utterance, if only for
its happy ambiguity. Wordsworth had
no pretensions to Porson’s scholarship,
and as far as I know, the only lines of
verse of Porson’s which survive are: —•
I went to the Frankfort and got drunk
With that most learn’d professor, Brunck;
I went to Worms, and got more drunken
With that more learn’d professor, Ruhncken.
As to the comparative capacities for
strong liquors of the illustrious pair, it
is certain that what would have put the
future Laureate off his balance would
have left the Grecian cold sober. To
some extent we are all—or most of us —
“betwixt and between” Wordsworth and
Porson.
* * * *
“T.P.”: I rise to wish that Oswald Pryor
in his inimitable drawing (B. 1/1 /’36)
had placed his “singin’ maids” at the
back and his basses in front, with the
spotlight full on ’em. That was the
arrangement in the Mt. Pleasant (Bal-
larat) Wesleyan Church well over 60
years ago. Grandad, born in Penzance
in 1803, and I, as a nipper, from the back
pew followed the bass notes with them—
we never heard any other. I have always
thought the practice was general, but
perhaps it depended on the rarstlin’ capa-
city of the basso profundos in the vari-
ous places of worship.
* * * *
“Adel.”: Adelaide “Advertiser” has an
entry of 50 novels and 32 plays for its
handsome centenary prizes. Each entry,
it is stipulated, must have historical
accuracy as well as literary interest.
Lloyd Dumas, the editor, has with him
as judges J. I. M. Stewart, the new
Professor of English at Adelaide, and
Grenfell Price, authority on S.A. history
and head of St. Mark’s.
* * * *
“Lizard Passage” (B. 8/l/’35) had a
disparaging reference to “the cast-iron
tabloids of - other days”— i.e., the days
when he “first departed for British New
Guinea” and took quinine. Burroughs
Wellcome’s Australian representative
writes to say that “the word ‘tabloid’
has been a Burroughs Wellcome trade-
mark for 50 years”:—
Probably the paragraph was meant to
apply to compressed preparations in
general—all tablets are not tabloids. As
confusion is likely to arise, we ask your
correspondent to amend his remark.
From “Lizard Passage”:
Remark amended. I, of course, meant
tablets, not any Burroughs Wellcome
product.


WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY.
COWBOY SADDLE,
£l2/18/6
This is a very popu-
lar line, quite equal to saddles of the
same class made in U.S.A.
It is made of brown leather, without
fancy stamping, and the seat and
cantle are in one piece of heavy
leather.
The skirts are square, and it is
double-rigged. Weight, about 281 b.
Freight paid in N.S.W. for cash with
order.
No. 300 HAIR SADDLE CLOTH
SQUARE, 26/-.
Post: 1/6 N.S.W., 2/6 Q., Vic.
-s.
v*v
»f
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND 10DPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
111
Strombeig
•Carlson
RADIO
[DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA^
a
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Invaded”
“M. Turlutu”: The press scare which
has been worked up over a visit by a
Japanese sampan crew in order to wash
their clothes and stretch their legs near
Cape Upstart (N.Q.), in the course of
which they scared a picnic party, has
given another world-wide advertisement
of the apathy of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment concerning Australia’s northern
coasts. The most futile and ridiculous
of the suggestions put forward as a
result has been that Canberra should
request the Japanese Government to re-
strain its nationals from infringing our
Customs and quarantine laws.
The probable answer to such a con-
fession of helplessness would be a re-
minder that the policing of our coast is
our job, with, maybe, a polite suggestion
that a party of Australian fishermen
might try the experiment of an un-
authorised landing in any Japanese ter-
ritory and report the result to Canberra.
As an international incident, or even
a risk to the health or revenue of Aus-
tralia, the matter is ridiculous. A hand-
ful of fishermen, finding a coast which
possessed no police, naval or Customs
guard, or any sign of permanent occu-
pation, would be quite reasonable in
assuming that it was open to anyone.
The more particularly as they had been
fishing for months within sight of it
without let or hindrance.
The usual political explanation has
been given that a patrol boat will be pro-
vided. It appears that the 15 months of
delay which have already ocurred in pro-
viding it has been due to the remark-
able nature of the craft required.
I.t must have very high speed, a steaming
radius of several thousand miles; it must
be sufficiently seaworthy to dash across
the Timor Sea at its worst —which is a
very bad worst —-to the rescue of wrecked
aeroplanes ; it must carry enough crew
and armament to overawe any possible
intruder ; and it must be comfortable to
live in under tropical conditions. Above
all, it must be cheap. Seamen regard it
as an impossible combination, unless at
very great cost. Such considerations do
not, of course, affect political explana-
tions, but they have apparently, so far,
delayed completion of theVcraft for 15
months and more. Had the job been
given to some fast-working, irritable,
thorough seaman —such, for example, as
Captain J. K. Davis showed himself to
be when the Discovery II was being
dealt with—an ordinarily suitable vessel
would have been bought or chartered,
fitted, manned, provisioned and dis-
patched a year ago. But that, decidedly,
is not Canberra’s way.
“Pisces”: Boyd Lee, perhaps the most
expert fisherman in N.Q., was explain-
ing to me the difference between the
shark’s view of the white man and the
black. Fishing on the Barrier, we came
to a hole in the coral perhaps 20ft.
across and deep enough to hold any-
thing. That pool, literally, was swarm-
ing with fish of many colors, shapes) and
sizes. Boyd, to show me the difference
betvveen black and white, sent his black
offsider to swim across the pool. As
soon as that black body entered the
water every fish in sight darted for
shelter, shooting into crevices in the
coral and fading from sight. After the
coon had scrambled out, Boyd dived in.
After the first fright from the splash
every darned fish in that hole was nos-
ing Boyd’s pink body as it swam across
the hole. They came in strings and
columns. After that I agreed with Boyd
that if ever the boat sank it paid a man
to keep his clothes on, particularly if
they were dark ones.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: The new Hornibrook
Highway across the bay from Sandgate
(Q.) to Woody Point is making a rapid
alteration in the distribution of holiday
traffic from Brisbane, and also in local
land values and building activities. More
than £20,000 has been spent on build-
ing in the Redcliffe peninsula during the
past few months. The by-pass from
Woody Point to the Bruce Highway cuts
off a fair lump of mileage between Bris-
bane and the seaside resorts north of
Redcliffe. Caloundra has sprung into
activity—it has the State Governor as
its star summer visitor—and Mooloo-
“This meat is mighty tough lately.”
“Oh, I forgot to tell you, dear. Mary has broken it off with the
butcher.”
laba, 15 miles north, is following with
an ambitious private undertaking involv-
ing subdivision of 200 acres for business
and holiday building, on a well-planned
layout. The only obstacle to early and
rapid development of new seaside towns,
and of the splendid mountain; scenery at
Buderim and the Blackalls, close by, is
the apparent determination of the
land Transport Board to suppress all
commercial road traffic for goods or pas-
sengers. As no railway comes within 10
miles of the coast, the results may be
disastrous. . ' •
* * * *
“X.T.”: There are still a lot of un-
sung heroes on Australasian scrolls.
Take Cecil Levien —it was to Cecil that
New Guinea owed the organisation of its
gold industry. A tough, experienced
kiap, more than 50 years old, he was sent
to Morobe in 1921, as first District
Officer. In 1923 he resigned and took
out the Mandate’s No. 1 miner’s right,
climbed the mountains, found the Big
Six at work on gold which ran up to
£2OO in value to the yard. For two
years he mined beside them, and in
1926 plunged into organisation. To his
vision primarily, New Guinea owes its
companies and its aerial transport sys-
tem. Just as the big dredges which the
Junkers had taken over the mountains
were beginning to operate, he died, worn
out, in 1932. There should be a memo-
rial to Cecil Levien..
$ * * *
The Pacific Islands Year-Book, com-
piled by R. W. Robson (Pacific Publica-
tions ; Bs. 6d.), is much enlarged this
year. It is full of general information
about the vast area which lies between
20 north and 20 south. It contains many
maps, a general guide for travellers —
everything the tourist needs to know
from cab fares to history—an excellent
personal directory of all the main islands,
a wealth of geographical and anthro-
pological information, a conspectus of
the year’s events and much statistical and
administrative detail. There is even a
pidgin glossary, but this would- bear a
lot of improvement —vowel spellings are
not standardised and some meanings are
not quite correct. House mani gammon
and house mani true are given as “bank-
notes” and “cash.” Literally, they really
refer to places of origin. In the German
time, there was only one source of
marks—the Treasury—so when the Com-
monwealth Bank was established it had
to be distinguished by diehard loyalists,
who insisted that the old original
Treasury was true and the new C. 8.,
gammon. There are also numerous use-
ful words which might be added—a
“house drink” is a valuable amenity in
the tropics, for instance..
* * * *
“Zedo”: Luck is a queer thing. When
I was a youngster I used to consort with
a gang of small boys in Mt. Morgan
who spent many a day in trying to find
a bonanza. We used to debate what we
would do. with the nugget when found.
One of us was named George Kraatz. I
remember arguing with him seriously
whether it would be better to buy a
circus or a windjammer. The other day,
30 years on, I read that George had
found his bonanza. He and a partner
were demolishing an old-age pensioner’s
hut in Rockhampton when they found
£4Ol in notes, buried in a rusty billycan
and a tin. George has not bought his
circus. He has handed the money over
to the Public Trustee.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Joining the Brisbane Repertory seems
to be as good as signing on with a matri-
monial agency. March 7 has been
decided on for the wedding of Beryl
Telford and J. Felgate, two members;
and the engagement is just announced
of Darley Cooper, only daughter of the
H. J. Coopers, to J. Lynam—two more.
Pauline Joice, only chick of the C. H.
Joices, is wearing a new engagement-
ring, too. Her young man is Allan Mor-
rison, M.A., of Charleville.
Mobs gather on Caloundra beach to
watch Sir Leslie Wilson and Archbishop
Wand take their dips in the briny. Lady
Wilson and Marjorie, Mrs. Wand and
daughter Kathleen also bathe, to say no-
thing of the Government House King
Charles, spaniels.
Esther L’Estrange, with her “A” pilot’s
license now well in the bag, certainly
worked hard enough for it, even to being
on the spot at Archerfield ’drome at 4
a.m. four days per week. She has a
job which commences about nine daily,
hence the early rising. Jack Bashford
tutored her, and Wyndham Pike was the
examiner. Now she is out for her com-
mercial certificate.
The Rev. Verney Lovett Johnstone,
M.A., is the new head of the Southport
School. He is expected to take the reins
about the end of March. He was at
Worcester College, Oxford, then tutor of
Keble, and a Fellow from 1930-1932. At
present he is vicar of St. Gabriel’s,
Heaton, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Two University graduates, Kevin Brady,
son of the late J. J. Brady and of Mrs.
W. Crowley, and Eileen Walsh, eldest
daughter of Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. R. H.
Walsh, said their “I
wills” at St. Benedict’s
Church, East Brisbane.
Dr. English, assisted
by Father O. Steele,
tied the knot. Full
shirred sleeves and a
high neck were
features of the angel-
skin-lace bridal frock.
Marie Walsh (sister)
and Cecily White
(cousin of the bride)
’maided in ash-rose
chiffon, and Norah
Walsh, another and a
smaller cousin, was
flower - girl. Vincent
Brady and Bill Hayes,
of Toowoomba, lent
the bridegroom their
moral support. The
bridal trip includes
Sydney and the Blue
Mountains.
A. L. Bussau, Vic. Minister for Trans-
port, and his wife were recent visitors.
Mrs. Percy Pease arranged a motor run
over the Hornibrook Highway ; the Vic-
torian Association, a luncheon at the
Canberra, and Commissioner for Rail-
ways Davidson conducted the visitors
round Cleveland and Redland Bay.
Marjorie Baldwin was the only brides-
maid when her sister Edna was married
at All Saints’ Shurch to Francis Guy
Harvey, of Chalfont, Bucks, England—
Milton’s country. The bride’s mother,
Mrs. L. A. Baldwin, of Vaucluse, gave
her away, and Rev. R. B. Bates said all
the necessary words. Captain W. E.
Mortlock was the ’groom’s offsider. The
wedding breakfast was eaten at the
Belle Vue.


The Most Widely Spread
Banking Service
m
The Bank of New South Wales, with over 750
branches throughout Australia, New Zealand
and the Pacific Islands, provides the most
widely spread and complete banking service in
the Southern Hemisphere.
Through this network of branches, and its
agents and correspondents throughout the
World, the Bank provides every facility for
financing internal and oversea trade. At each
one of its branches, the Bank transacts all
customary banking business.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
With which the Western Australian Bank and The
Australian Bank of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated
Aggregate Assets exceed £115,000,000
9561-HS6I
Ay
m
ms
wm.
m
m
■
There are thousands of acres of land in China where s ° *
have swept away the soil, leaving only stones and &
behind. .
Lost ground is no more unproductive than the }eais i
are permitted to pass without making a sound mves n _
an investment that will provide for your future yea .
—the lack of which has caused the destruction of s
of China’s soil —can be your source of income.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. was organised with the object
of planting forests which, with their rapid growth a
great demand for softwoods, would amply repay the , . .
ment. At present N.Z. Perpetual Forests
163,000 acres and approximately £4,000,000 has been sub-
scribed for forestry investment, whilst (approx.) £ , ,
is held in reserve for maintenance and realisa-
tion. Thousands of investors have grasped the
opportunities of investing in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests Ltd.
May we send our representative to give you
facts and figures regarding this investment.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:
KEMBLA BUILDING, 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
WATCH
fOURMONS*
CROW
TSo connection with any other Forestry Company.
A Leaf from Dr. Fawntyke's case-book:-
WHO KILLED
MYLDE-MANNERS?
BY REX G RIENITS
ROGUES’ GALLERY, ETC., BY SCORFIELD.
IT was a fortunate coincidence that
Dr. Fawntyke and myself chanced to
be present when Myles Mylde-
Manners was feloniously done to death.
Otherwise the affair might have remained
for ever a mystery. Our arrival was in
no way connected with the crime. In
fact, crime of any description was the
furthest thing from our minds when we
accepted Mylde-Manners’s invitation to
spend a week-end at his sumptuous coun-
try residence, and beyond a brief dis-
sertation by the doctor during our jour-
ney from town on the psychology of the
felo-de-se the subject was not men-
tioned either on our way or during the
week-end.
It was on the Sunday night that it
happened. All the guests —Dr. Fawntyke
and myself included —were seated in the
lounge exchanging reminiscences, when
without warning the electric light ceased
Slaughter philandering.
to function. I sat perfectly still in the
darkness of the room, and from the
silence around me imagined that my
fellow-guests were doing precisely the
same thing. Suddenly there was a groan.
Beside me I sensed Dr. Fawntyke leav-
ing his chair, and a moment later the
light flashed on as he operated the switch
beside the door. In the centre of the
room Mylde-Manners’s body lay
sprawled in a strangely-twisted attitude.
Blood oozed from his shirt-front and
dripped on to the rich Persian carpet.
Looking upwards I espied a knife quiv-
ering in the oak-beamed ceiling. Its
was dripping red.
Dr. Fawntyke’s indolent week-end
attitude disappeared as his keen eye took
in the details of the tragedy. Gentle-
men, I fear there has been foul play, ’
he pronounced. “Our esteemed host is
dead. .Someone in this room is a mur-
derer.”
A gasp of dismay followed this an-
nouncement, and the various guests
glanced suspiciously
at each other.
“Flotsam,” con-
tinued the doctor, ad-
dressing me —my
name is really De
Bris, but Fawntyke
prefers Flotsam —
“you will be good
enough to see that
none of these gentle-
men leaves the room.
I will question them
individually in the
library.”
“Don’t you want to
inspect the body?” I
inquired, meaning to
be helpful.
Sweetleigh.
“My brain has already photographed
every detail of the scene for future
reference,” the doctor- retorted quietly
but firmly. “Be so good as to obey my
instructions. I will start with Mr.
Slaughter.”
Fawntyke quitted the room, and at a
sign from me the guest he had named
followed him to the library. The inter-
rogation lasted nearly half an hour.
Then Slaughter returned with word that
Sweetleigh’s presence was required, and
another twenty minutes of anxious wait-
ing followed.
It was almost midnight before Fawn-
tyke had questioned the last of the
guests.
Finally he intimated that he would like
to see me. He was seated cosily in an
armchair before a blazing fire, and when
I entered the library was in the act of
exchanging his shoes for carpet slippers.
“Did you learn anything?” I inquired
eagerly.
The doctor smiled enigmatically, and
proceeded to fill his cherry-wood.
«I ET us review the guests individu-
*-* ally, my dear Flotsam,” he said.
“First there was young Slaughter,
until a few weeks ago Mylde-Manners’s
favorite nephew. Slaughter, who figures
prominently in the dead man’s will, was
informed to-night that if he didn’t stop
his philandering with chorus-girls he
would be cut off without a penny.”
“Ah!” I exclaimed significantly. “A
motive, eh?”
“Precisely,” Fawntyke agreed. “Slaugh-
ter is, as you may realise, a hot-headed
youngster—likely even to commit murder
in the heat of the moment. In fact, he
admits to having threatened Mylde-
Manners in the presence of witnesses,
and also admits ownership of the knife.”
“Obviously the man,” I commented.
Fawntyke glanced sharply at me.
“You think so?” he queried.
“Well, dash it all, I mean to say” -
I gabbled, slightly confused by his atti-
tude. “The evidence is strong enough,
isn’t it?”
“That’s just it,” the doctor responded.
“The evidence is too strong. Far too
strong. Have you ever studied crime,
Flotsam? Real crime, I mean. Vital,
living, authentic crime as created by such
masters as Doyle, Wallace and Van
Dine?”
“I can’t claim to have really studied
it,” I answered, rather perplexed. “Merely
dabbled a little.”
Fawntyke puffed for a while at his
Smythe-Smith.
pipe. “Exactly.
Just dabbled.
Therefore you
fail to compre-
hend that the
first step in its
solution is to find
the person most'
likely to have
committed it, and
Cholmondeley.
then cross him right
off your list. That’s
a theory I’ve de-
veloped after twenty
years of murder fic-
tion, and it has not
failed me yet. No,
Flotsam, my dear
chap. Slaughter definitely did not kill
Mylde-Manners.”
I bowed to his superior mentality.
“Let us consider Guest Number Two,”
I invited. “Mr. Sweetleigh, if I’m not
mistaken.”
The doctor pressed the tips of his
fingers together, and gazed contem-
platively into the fire. “Ah, yes. Sweet-
leigh. A man of very jealous disposition,
as may be observed from the peculiar
arch of his left eyebrow. I thought per-
haps that he might have committed the
crime, actuated by jealousy ; but after
due reflection I am certain he is inno-
cent.”
“How do you arrive at that conclu-
sion?” I asked,
ever willing to
learn from this
master mind.
Fawntyke
smiled tolerantly.
“A matter of ex-
treme simplicity.
You are aware,
no doubt, that
Sweetleigh has
thick, sleek black
hair, parted
neatly in the
centre. An ob-
ject of much ad-
Dr. Fawntyke.
miration, I may say without fear of con-
tradiction. Mylde-Manners, on the
other hand, was bald —as bald, Flot-
sam, as the proverbial billiard ball.
Now, I can readily imagine Mylde-
Manners being exceedingly jealous
of Sweetleigh’s crowning glory, as it
were; but not by any stretch .of
imagination could I visualise Sweetleigh
as jealous of his host. Therefore, by a
simple process of deduction I maintain
that, as Sweetleigh had no cause for
jealousy, he did not murder Mylde-
Manners.”
“Marvellous,” I commented in hushed
tone. “And how about Smythe-Smith?”
Fawntyke shrugged slightly as though
the question were too elementary for his
notice. “Smythe-Smith, my dear fellow,
is left-handed. He stutters horribly, and,
moreover, he has an unsightly wart on
the right side of his nose. A thoroughly
detestable type, but not a murderer.”
“How do you arrive at that conclu-
sion?”
The doctor looked almost pityingly at
me. “Have you ever heard of a left-
handed man who stutters and has a wart
on the right side of his nose committing
murder?” he asked.
“Why, no,” I acknowledged.
Fawntyke spread his hands apart
expressively. “Then that eliminates
Smythe-Smith. Now we come to young
Ponsonby.
Cholmondeley. Very
unfortunate in his
choice of surname —if,
indeed, the choice was
his—but a thoroughly
decent young fellow.
In fact, Cholmondeley’s
uncle is a great friend
of an acquaintance of
my sister’s husband’s
brother - in - law. As
you know, I am very
particular in my choice
of friends, and I can
give a personal assur-
ance that Cholmondeley


Public Notice.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations being owners, trustees, or agents for
any goods or property within the Sydney Fire
District, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an
insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such insurance
companies during the year 1935.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1936;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
NOTE.—Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Public Notice.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Requirec
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927
ALL insurance companies, as defined by th«
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
niissioners of New South Wales returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of
risks against fire during the year ending 31st
December, 1935, within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, applies; less any part
of such premiums actually paid by way of
reinsurance to any other insurance companies
contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1936; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
akes your fancy, write to the manager,
*vho will quote you price for the original.
~,,
if
*«.r
■? k
ii,. f
f rK ' A
■t'wi a
union!
“The scenic route
Fortnightly Sailings.
sr
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St.. Melbourn
S3nn uviAi ivAoy
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
would never resort to murder. None of
my friends is a murderer.”
“Of course not,” I agreed ; and then,
as a bright thouglit struck me, “By
Jove!” I ejaculated.
“What now?” Fawntyke inquired with
a little sigh.
“That eliminates me,” I pointed out.
The doctor smiled. “Precisely. I had
already ruled you out as a suspect, my
dear Flotsam, for exactly that reason.”
I sighed with relief.
GM EXT,” continued my companion,
“we come to Ponsonby.”
“Ah, yes. Ponsonby,” I
remarked wisely. “If ever
a man was a born crimi-
nal in appearance it is
Ponsonby. Consider that
receding forehead and
those long ear-lobes. A
perfect type.”
“That may be as it
may,” Fawntyke re-
sponded, “but the great
fact is that Ponsonby is
the principal shareholder
in an insurance com-
pany Which recently in-
sured Mylde-Manners’s
life for some thousands.
Obviously he cannot be regarded as a
suspect. Who’s next?”
I thought for a while. “You’re quite
certain that Slaughter, Sweetleigh,
Smythe-Smith, Cholmondeley, Ponsonby
and myself are innocent?” I inquired.
“Certain? Of course. Haven’t I
proved it?” the doctor retorted, a little
hurt by my question.
“It’s definite that Mylde-Manners
didn’t murder himself, of course?” I per-
sisted, unabashed.
“And then throw the knife up into
the ceiling? Don’t be so ridiculous!”
he snorted, now openly indignant.
I spread my hands apart triumphantly.
“Then there’s only one left,” I proclaimed.
Fawntyke glanced keenly at me.
“Who?” he inquired.
“There’s only one left.”
I paused just a second before I made
the announcement. “Yourself!” I said.
My companion stared dazedly at me.
“Is that correct?” he queried, rather fear-
fully, I thought.
“Perfectly.”
Fawntyke’s hand shot out and grasped
my arm in a vyce-like grip. He stared
dazedly at me, an almost incredulous
look in his eyes. “Flotsam, old man, I
must be a homicidal maniac,” he said.
“What rot, doctor! Why, anyone
would know you didn’t kill him,” I re-
turned.
“But I’ve just proved that everyone
else in the room was
innocent.”
“You may have made
a mistake,” I pointed out.
Fawntyke drew him-
self up proudly. “I never
make mistakes,” he an-
nounced. “Good Lord,
Flotsam, it’s almost un-
believable. I must have
killed him in a moment
of mental aberration.
Astounding!”
“But why should you
want to kill him? What
motive could you possibly
have had?” I asked.
The doctor laughed bitterly. “Oh, I
had motive enough,” he assured me.
“Sufficient for any jury in the world to
convict. Subconsciously I must have
wanted to kill him. It’s all so hideously
clear now. Yes, Flotsam, I wanted to
kill him.”
“But why!” I asked again. “In
Heaven’s name, why?”
Fawntyke put a cautious finger to his
lips. “This must never go beyond us,”
he said, and paused to look around in
case there Were eavesdroppers present.
“It’s almost too damnable to mention.”
“What is it, man? What is it?” I urged.
Fawntyke gulped emotionally. “The
cad was wearing my old school tie,” he
proclaimed.
A Good Goldfields Yarn:—
TALKING GROUND
BY GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE trouble between Bill Lawton and
Jim Sparrow was that the former
knew the weakness of his mate. They
had worked together for a year and
been cobbers off the lease before Bill
made the discovery that was to change
the character of their relationship. But
it had to come, and it came on the even-
ing when the shift-boss took- them from
the face on the seven hundred level, and
set them to work in the big stope at the
twelve.
Bill knew the mine. He had worked
in the stope before, and it was all the
same to him. He led the way, because
he knew every foot of the level and
could make progress without peering
ahead into the beam of his lamp. He
voiced a warning of the locality of the
chute as they left the plat, and when
they were a quarter of a mile from the
shaft, and the faint mutterings that had
always distinguished the rickety old
twelve hundred became audible, he
thought nothing of it. He emerged from
the tunnel into the great shadowy cavity,
talking over his shoulder.
“It’s a good level, Jim. There’s plenty
of air, and I like a place where there’s
plenty of air,” he said, and then looked
back. Jim was not there.
For a moment Bill was startled, but
the sound of moving stones and a glow
in the distance reassured him. Jim came
out of the darkness, and stood his lamp
on a rock behind him so that it shone
on his back and his face was still in the
gloom.
“What happened to you?” asked Bill.
“You gave me a fright.”
“Nothing,” said his mate. “Just
strange to the place.”
Bill, who had moved off without wait-
ing for an answer, was halted by some-
thing shaky in his tone. He swung his
light so that the beam shone bright on
Jim’s face. Jim did not blink. His eyes
remained wide and fixed, tense and alert
as his white, drawn features.
“ ’Strewth!” said Bill. “You look like
someone’s ghost. What the hell’s the
matter?”
“Nothing,” said Jim again. “She—she
talks a lot down here, don’t she?”
Bill’s laugh of relief rumbled among
the crevices and mingled with stifled, far-
away grunts that indicate the minute
movements of hundreds of tons of earth.
The chuckle cut its way into Jim’s para-
lysed mind like an echo of the menace
that he felt around him ; but it could
not have been suppressed. The man was
frozen with
fright, and Bill
was amused. The
very idea of a
miner, one who
had toiled in the
depths for years,
even noticing
what he himself
had long ago dismissed from his mind as
the baffled bluff of ground held in check
by its masters was funny. For the first
time he had a warming, elating sensation
of superiority over the mate who had
never before shown a weakness, except
of the kind that is admired among men.
“Snap out of it!” he said. “It’s talked
a lot for twenty years, and it’ll talk a
lot for another twenty. That’s what it
is—all talk, and the safest place on the
Mile. You ought to know better, feller.”
Jim knew it, but it was a flush of
resentment that brought the color back
to his cheeks. He said nothing, but
picked up his lamp, and soon they were
making their insignificant contributions
to the toil of the underground together.
But from out of the great black void
of the stope the voice of the earth con-
tinued to protest. Whispers grew into
muffled groans, and occasionally the hol-
low rattle of a little falling stone, diving
down a rock wall, hitting the broken
rock, and spinning and leaping to the
bottom of a rill, made an exaggerated
clatter in its higher key. Whenever this
happened Jim’s already taut muscles
would stretch till they hurt, startled
sweat would bead his forehead, and he
would take a new grip of tattered nerves
before he could go on.
BUT for Bill, Jim would have quit be-
fore the first week was out. He had
walked off his last job—a good one, on
profitable contract rates —before anyone
had discovered the reason. There, too,
the ground had “talked,” threatening and
shifting about behind its deceptive face,
day and night. It had creaked and
groaned and grated above and around
him, until it was no longer an interesting
phenomenon, but a promise of doom. It
had developed voices, suggestions of im-
pending catastrophe that were almost
articulate. The rock had pressed around
him, stifling and startling, before he had
decided not to go down into it again.
He had got into a habit of staring, hyp-
notised, at a wall of solid stone until
it first melted into vague, swirling, dark
masses, and then leapt, toppling and
tumbling, towards him. The seven hun-
dred level, where the masses were quiet
and still, and the only noises were those
of humans and scurrying, friendly mice,
had been heaven after that.
But now he was at the twelve, in the
big stope that was always filled with
vague hints of irresistible power, crush-
ing weight and diabolical purpose, biding
their time.


HUMOR STORY
COMPETITION.
Next Week’s Story
“A TIMELY EXPOSURE.”
by
HERBERT BERNICE.
m
m,
U
99
. p-rfR 24,00®
f
*»
Sv
/
>»«
3sy4& :
*w
JJAULING 4-ton loads this V-8 Truck
has covered 24,000 miles in 12
months and not one penny has been
spent on repairs. Like many other truck
operators, this owner enthusiastically
praises V-8 dependability, efficiency
and economy. Every day more truck
men are agreeing that V-8 units are
"the best they have ever handled.”
Features include Full-floating rear axle,
Straddle mounted driving pinion, Truck-
type clutch, Improved weight distri-
bution, Safety Glass windscreen. There
are V-8 models for loads of one to five
tons. Ask your Ford dealer to arrange
an “on-the-job” test with the V-8 unit
suited to your work. Easy and con-
venient purchase terms are available.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-B TRUCKS
POWERED WITH V-8 TRUCK-TYPE ENGINES
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
F 34.30 x
When Bill began to realise that his
mate’s inexplicable state was serious, he
tried, with a clumsy good-humor that
was not free of patronage, to set his fears
at rest. Standing with his heels dug into
the rubble, he talked commonsense down
to the pale face of a man whose mind
had long since rejected logic as applied
to his obsession.
“Crikey!” said Bill, in amiable, peace-
ful tones, unaware that all around him
the earth was whispering promises to
the Devil. “It ain’t the ground that
talks all the time you’ve got to get the
wind up about. When it starts all of a
sudden, stand from under if you like ;
but this noise that goes on for years
an’ years don’t mean a thing. She might
come down, same as she might any-
where ; but you ought to know there
ain’t any more chance of it just ’cause
of all the silly row. Surely t’ Gawd
you’ve worked in a level where the
ground’s been gruntin’ a bit before now.”
Jim, a dozen feet below him, snarled.
He had never admitted to Bill how he
felt. He never would. He would wait
for what was coming, and meet his
end when it did, just for the joy of see-
ing Bill Lawton go under first, with a
grimace of animal astonishment on his
ugly, unintelligent face.
“Damn you!” said Jim. “I know.
I’m like you —I know everything—so
you don’t need to tell me. You don’t
need to tell me, do you hear? You’re
like the ground—you talk too much ;
but I don’t give a damn for either of
you.”
After that they had little to say to
each other, though Bill, who felt that he
had a just grievance, aired it occasion-
ally in ways that pricked and rankled.
He took to watching his mate with the
amused interest with which one might
examine a freakish and eccentric insect.
“I’ve got an idea, Jim,” he said one
day. “Why let th’ ground do all the
talking? Answer it back a bit, lad. Tell
it to go to hell a few times, an’ they’ll
soon put you where it won’t worry you
any more.”
“Listen to that one!” he would sing
out when the fastness of the rock
rumbled more heavily than usual. “It’s
giving you the raspberry now. If I was
you, I’d shove a few plugs of fracteur
into the cheeky cow.”
Jim writhed, wavered at breaking
point, and inwardly swore himself to
what would be a joyous murder if he
ever suspected that Bill had talked to
anyone else in that strain. But Bill never
did that.
They were, of course, no longer friends
off the mine. They kept as far away
from each other as possible. And each
eight-hour shift in the twelve hundred
stope was an eternity of shameful misery
for Jim. In the daylight, above ground,
he knew it was ridiculous. In the mine
he had no fear of a chattering rock-
drill’s hammering point striking an un-
exploded charge and splashing itself and
the men around on the nearest wall. He
had no fear of falls, or nervousness in
the cage that dropped and leapt perilously
in the narrow shaft. It was just the
voices in the rocks, the secret, evil con-
versations that went on in the bowels of
the earth, that unnerved him. His face
developed a permanent, masklike stiff-
ness of expression. He lost weight, and
could not sleep for hating Bill Lawton.
THEN one day when Jim, obviously a
* sick man, needed a lift on a job that
was too heavy for him, Bill surprisingly
made overtures towards friendship.
He was up on the rill, with his lamp
illuminating the frowning rock behind
and above him, and he sang out a little
less confidently than usual.
“Wait a sec.,” he called, “and I’ll be
down t’ give you a hand.” Then he
straightened. “Crikey, Jim, we’ve been
actin’ like a couple o’ nannies!” he said.
Jim, from the depths, looked up in
silence.
“You’re a bundles o’ nerves,” Bill con-
tinued ; “and I know I’ve been kiddin’
too hard. Git it straight, son. Forget
the stupid noises for a week or two, an’
we’ll work a shift back to the seven
hundred if I can manage it.”
Just then the murmur of the uneasy
earth became perceptibly louder, but Bill
was too earnest in his persuasive argu-
ments to notice it. Jim was listening
more to the creaking of the rocks than
to him, though he gazed as if fascinated
at his mate. Away in some corner out
of sight a staccato noise that was more
like straining timber than grating stone
joined the weird medley of sound ; but
Bill continued.
“It’s a bit uncanny sometimes, I
know,” he said. “P’r’aps I been noticin’
it more lately, with you all of a dither.
A man wants a mate down these damn’
holes that he can talk to, an’ forget what
lousy places they are. It’s no use makin’
’em more unpleasant than they’ve got to
be.”
But Jim was not listening to his words
at all now. The grunting of the mile-
wide masses of stone was ringing in his
ears like the sobbing breath of a giant
struggling in bonds. A few tiny flakes
dropped off behind Bill, and fell noise-
lessly into the rubble. Over his head a
gigantic sharp-fanged lip of stone
drooped slowly (like the lower jaw of
a titanic, hungry beast) away from the
main body. Jim’s body seemed to slip
away from him, and leave him standing,
watching, without it. The tenseness was
gone. He was not even afraid.
“If you’ll call it quits” entreated
Bill.
Then a scattered rain of small boulders
was spewed from the crevice above his
head. One of them caught him between
the shoulders, and with surprising, elastic
leaps and somersaults he came bouncing
down the rill, with a little torrent of
rubble in his wake. His lamp was out,
but Jim’s showed him, inert, at the
bottom.
A few tons of rock peeled away, up
above, with a rending noise, and settled
with a sigh on the rubble. An ocean of
dirt submerged the lower part of Bill,
and pebbles pelting about his head
brought him to consciousness. His face
wore just that puzzled, uncomprehending
expression Jim had often imagined upon
it.
“Jim! ” he called. “For God’s sake”
But it was not that cry that affected
Jim. A new river of dirt had started,
near the top of the rill somewhere. The
voice of the earth was angry, further
back, with the quaking upheaval that
was upsetting it. The whispers had
changed to a harsh challenge, and Jim
snarled in. reply, suddenly determined
to beat the ground, to trick it of
its prey. He leapt for his mate, and
together they struggled against the
mounting rubble.
It was only the loose stuff—the first
light layer of the dirt that would soon be
packed hard beneath hundreds of tons of
rock—that held Bill. He came out of
it like a cork out of a bottle, and together
they ran. Careless of fingers and faces
in the fearful darkness, stumbling and
scrambling forward with desperate
energy, they made the level. And
as they sped along it they heard the
voice of the earth behind them change
to a roar as the avalanche engulfed the
big stope.
AT the plat, under electric lights and
in the comforting company of solici-
tous inquirers, the unruffled Bill ten-
derly examined bruises on his legs, and
explained their narrow escape with a
wealth of vivid detail. He made a hero
out of Jim, though that worthy sprawled
beside him, colorless and limp, and fit
for nothing as yet.
And Jim, shivering and dumb with
shock, longipg for the surface and the
sunlight, felt a glow of appreciation of
his mate. A great chap—tough, straight
and decent. As good a cobber as a man
could wish for —a man upon whom one
could rely. Such mates were scarce
enough to be valuable. It would be a
long while before he would find another.
But seek another he would have to, for
Bill would never, in any circum-
stances, understand how he felt about
talking ground.
His only satisfaction was that now, at
any rate, he would be able to get away
from it, to walk off the lease for good,
and still be able to enjoy a friendly drink
and a yarn with Bill when they ran
across each other on paydays.


“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; R. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
SADF
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circti-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney,
Every page is
a front page in
“The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
TT’S bought to read, when
A there’s time to read
... in South Australia’s
evening hours. Use it to
boost your sales . . . its
all been proved
It gets into the
family circle ! !
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newsoaoer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6A51 in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
The house in Balmain was grave and dignified:
an old stone house standing back among green trees.
£rom its windows you saw a blue stretch of the
narbor and the shapes of ships—ships at anchor
and ships moving backwards and forwards across the
blueness. The house was stiff, but not unfriendly ; it
hu^ ail Til. r l bout as it: had waited long for a
child. The house, in its dignity, its stiff kindliness,
seemed somehow to matter more than Uncle Tim.
He was a plump little man with quick, clever
dark eyes and a gentle manner. He was a doctor
with, besides his profession, a hundred varying
ere sts—; art, books, music, the training of children,
though he had none himself. He took the greatest
interest in Ruve, feeling, perhaps, that she would be
a sub l^ ct f° r hi s theories ; but her aunt loved her
That was the difference. Her Aunt Ellice loved
b ? r ’ s deliciously in every sensitive nerve
of her little body. It was good to be tucked-in in the
cooling April nights under the glowing, soft quilt and
the snowy, sweet-smelling blankets. Round the top
°^ t u- r °° m - r ? n a f r * eze ’ adventurous, intriguing, of
red ships sailing down a dark stream. Ships and
ships. She would lie in a blissful content, watching
them by the glimmer of the lamp turned very low.
Dimly she could make them out; and in her mind
she wove imageries in which they sailed to islands
like those she remembered. Red ships—mirroring
themselves in pellucid, colorful depths. But always,
as her eyes closed in the quick slumber of child-
hood, they came back to haven in the little, quiet
room. The ships of dream!
The years were passing. She was growing into a
tall, rather shy, thoughtful child. It was strange how
she fitted into the quiet, decorous life of Aunt Ellice
and the grey stone house. The Fijian accent slipped
from her tongue as if it had never been ; Ruvia and
Valoa and the untidy, cheerful household of the Ben-
netts went back almost into forgetfulness. She felt—and
rightly—that Aunt Ellice didn’t want her to talk about
her life there. She had been horrified at some of the
things Ruve had said. Ruve began to be aware that
Aunt Ellice’s standards were altogether different from
those of Adela and the dark and lovely Elena.
She went to school. The new world was open-
ing ; life was broadening out. Perhaps the island life
made her somewhat shy: she never altogether got
used to large crowds. They stimulated her; they
excited her; but she was never really at ease in them.
She was eleven when she met Dick.
He was thirteen—a tall boy in shabby, darned
clothes, with direct blue eyes and an eagerness his
blunt manner betrayed. He wanted work desperately
He wanted to cut the doctor’s lawn; to clean his
boots, his steps—in short, do anything.
Her Aunt Leila—Ruve softened her name to that
sometimes —stood hesitant. She was in a grey dress
that made her look gentle and sweet and old-
fashioned. She smiled on the eager boy.
“But I usually employ a man,” she said gently.
“You’re really rather young.”
I can work hard s a man,” the boy said simply,
as one stating an obvious fact. “I’m used to it. Go
on, missus.”
So urgent was his tone that Aunt Ellice weakened
and went on:
“Well, you can try to-morrow,” she conceded.
After that Dick came every Saturday and worked
furiously. In between, they gathered, he sold papers.
His mother, a thin, gallant little woman who would
have looked young (she was only thirty-four) if her
life had been easier, sewed for city shops. His father,
a heavy drinker and averse to work, appeared spas-
modically in their lives and vanished again.
They had a couple of rooms and half a back
verandah in a shabby cottage at the bottom of a
street twisting down to the water. Their landlady was
a slatternly, good-natured creature who wore safety-
pins on her ample bosom and had golden, amazingly-
beautiful hair pinned in an untidy bun that was
always coming down on her fat neck. She had no
time for Dick’s father.
“Get rid of ’im, my love,” she counselled his
mother. “ ’E’ll do you no good, the ’ound.”
Margery, Dick’s mother, frowned and said suc-
cinctly: “It’s easier said than done, Mrs. Moraway.”
Dick’s childhood had been a migratory one from
one cheap lodging-house to another. But almost
always they had lived somewhere near the water, so
that the sound of its lapping and the sight of ships
were to them familiar, everyday things. It was
poverty ; but Australian poverty, which is generally a
self-respecting, not uncheerful state. Dick had not
minded it greatly when he had been younger, but it
was different when the bitter tiredness of his young
mother’s face began to hurt him. She was so daunt-
less a thing, unless you caught her in an odd moment.
But her face was beginning to belie her spirit; the
endless battle with circumstances too strong for her
was marking it ruthlessly.
Life hadn’t been so hard for Dick; she had seen
to that. She did what she could, but there were hours
when he was of necessity away from her anxious
eyes. With a fatalism peculiar to her she realised
that a boy had to “take his chance” in her workaday
world. He ran wild sometimes ; he learnt to swim
about the wharves and boatsheds that edged the
shining blue waters. With other boys he lay basking
in the sunlight on crazy jetties, or plunged mother-
naked in warm, still waters. He grew self-reliant,
resourceful, quick of tongue and fist.
That was his childhood environment: the dilapi-
dated raggle of the Balmain waterside, the narrow
streets twisting down to it; blue salt water, not
always wholesomely flavored ; boatsheds ; drawling,
yarning voices of men there; sails drying on the
green grass of narrow yards sloping also to the
water; oaths, loud quarrelling, laughter, singing.
And always his mother at her continual sewing; her
sudden tenderness.
It was old Davidson who first fired the lad’s
fancy. He was an old sailor who let out boats and
was often to be found sitting on an upturned barrel
smoking his eternal pipe. The winds of the seven seas
had stung his weather-beaten cheeks. Brought to
anchor as he was in this quiet Balmain backwater,
he still carried about him a spacious air, as of one
who knew wide horizons and would be at home in
seaports the world over. And if his weakness lay in
artistic exaggeration, yet he had the gift of telling a
yarn well. Up in the lad’s vision reared fantastic
shapes: islands of imagination like none in the wide
world ; islands where honey-warm airs lingered and
great ships sailed out of the sunset to ride in their
calm lagoons.
“I mind once we come on a lonely island,” the
old man said reflectively, while Dick, his chin in his
brown hands, lay full length on the grassy patch out-
side the boatshed. “I was a young man in those days,
lad, and I had notions like I growed out of later.
We put into that there quiet place for water, and
some of us went roaming over it, tired of the schooner
and her dirty decks. And over a little, low hill we
come on trees growing up like a wall behind a stretch of
grass with the wind moving across it. There was a girl
there, a brown girl, but there was white blood in her;
that I’d take my oath on. A wild, strange girl with
straight black hair, like the Samoans have, falling
about her shoulders. There were birds all about her;
they rose in a cloud as we broke through the trees;
and the girl turned and stood a moment staring at
us with her dark, wild eyes. She threw her arms up
then, and cried out, wild-like, and ran like a mad
thing. Maybe she hadn’t seen folk like us before, or
happen she was just plain scared. But I kept the
memory of her and the hilly island and the wild birds
that fed out of her brown hands. Did I tell you it
was morning when we saw her, lad? A clear, cool
morning with a wind running over the green water.
“But they ain’t all shy like that! Not by a long
chalk, they ain’t. Reckon they’ll tell you about the
South Sea belles with the garlands all pretty on their
black heads. They’re liars, the ones that’ll give you
that shenanigan, my boy. Big-mouthed, brazen hussies,
the most of them are —no better than they might be.
“But the Islands have a queerness in them that
gets you some way. There’s a softness in the air of
the South Sea mornings, and when you come drifting
up the quiet blue seas they look like the Gardens of
Paradise. Blue, quiet hills rising on the blue sea, and
islands like blue clouds behind you ; and when you
draw close in through the reef you hear the calling
of birds and see, maybe, some little Fiji town, sleepy
under big green trees. Once I thought maybe I’d
settle down on one of those quiet places; but I
dunno —I dunno.”
“If I’d ’a’ been you I’d have stayed there,” said
young Dickie with conviction. “I’ll go there some
day.”
“Maybe you will, young chap ; maybe you will.
You’ve got your life in front of you. But I’ve struck
my moorings now.”
Dick came every Saturday afternoon now to the
doctor’s house to mow the doctor’s lawn, do odd
jobs in the garden, turn his hand to whatever was
required of him. As always, he worked with the
steady energy that characterised him, but he and Ruve,
between whom a steady friendship was growing, found
time for talk together. She heard of his mother, of
the two mean rooms that were home to him, of his
father’s infrequent appearances, of Dick’s own ambi-
tions. He had a job as an office-boy now during the
week, and was able to ease a little of the strain on
his mother.
“She hasn’t had half a chance, mum hasn’t,” he
said soberly. “I’d like to be able to buy a house for
her some day—a house with white walls and a green
roof. I’ve seen the kind I mean. With a garden and
trees; and I’d barge the old man out of it if he came
butting in. Lazy hound, he is, though he is my father.”
“What else would you like to do, Dick?”
“Tons more. I’d like to go to sea —an office life’s
sissy. But I was glad to take it to help things a bit.
I left school the day I was fourteen. Before that I
done odd jobs in the evening—selling papers and so
on. But I’d like to learn things, too ; a fellow wants
to know things to get on.”
“I want to paint pictures,” Ruve said, impelled
to confidence.
“Painting’s all right—for girls,” Dick conceded
graciously. “But I can’t say as I’d care much for it
myself. It’s a woman’s job.”
“It’s not! It’s not!” Ruve said hotly. “Some of
the greatest men in the world were artists.”
“They can have it,” said Dick, unimpressed.
“Daubing paints on paper is sissy. I wouldn’t be one
of them long-haired coots for a thousand quid.”
(To be continued next week.)


WrPCfL
Bilious
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling 1
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a furred
tongue. Bowels may be loose and natural one day,
but constipated the next. This is brought about by
the natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up,
and the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
11l
Dr. Morses
I
in
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
re
*. _ /■
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or feetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
4°c
COH
2/-
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
3 ellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
reparation compounded on a scientific
irinciple for the eradication of worms
vhich infest the intestines. They con-
ain specific properties which destroy the
vorms but cause no injury to the
tomach or bowels, and do not weaken
he system. The pellets are prepared
n the form of a confection, or lolly,
lave no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
in the contrary, inspire children to take
hem as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
lirect from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
'3 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and 6
Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
jox (six boxes 11/6), post free.
f writing please mention The Bulletin.
X
A* ►-f»...«<o° #
sn^eaaws I ®^-*
ft-x
k V \\eN ,r\^
\0 CV? 1
op'
<T .-•' .-•'
,0,6 ••• .-••■
*\o ,iv' ■••• •■•' .•■•■
;.* w ’ ,„. •■ t,.■■■■■ ,-■■:*<&&■
jft-
jtjk |
•*>


OUU-, V Q+Ly
/
C u
•<
sm
he recently-improved accommodation includes the re-
arranging and re-furnishing of "A" Deck and a
number of "B" Deck Cabins and the Public Rooms
have also been considerably enlarged and tastefully
re-furnished.
These improvements, combined with the low fares,
excellent menus, efficient service and unrestricted
deck space offer the best value in travel comfort
obtainable.
. A\W K ' '
1 A
ST
v \ yK®
4
FARES FROM £3B PLUS EXCHANGE
ALL INFORMATION OBTAINABLE
FROM LOCAL P. & O. AGENTS
BKAICH SERVICE
65 2
