

••
2mm
Q UA L I T Y SIN C E 1897
BATTE RI E S
FOR CARS
in
HOME LIGHTING
MADE FOR LONGER LIFE LOWER
IN COST-PER-YEAR OF SERVICE THAN
ORDINARY BATTERIES —AND BACKED
BY UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEES
made by
VESTA BATTERY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
. SYDNEY .
• r ■■■
- - MELBOURNE
V317. PERTH
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN
The Bulletin
Introducing Mr. C A. Parrett (Page 39)
Vol. 57.—N0. 2941.
Wednesday, June 24, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE r
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
«tHOME
This Book FREE to/ YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 livsncll Street, Melbourne i
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
M. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which (lie entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works -which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, iu book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de phone, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no w’ork submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If (his should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
FROM “AUSTRALIA.”
] shut my eyes and hear the magpies utter
Their magical, sweet cry like jingling glass,
And see the barren with the whited bones
Of gum-trees stretching to the flood-water,
Where btack swans straddle in a line, like men
Pretending to be swans. Beyond the flood
1 here are the shearing sheds, where men of
Anzac,
I lie shearers about whom the ballads tell,
Wonderful men whose lame this country
treasures,
Strip oft; the fleeces from the sheep as though
l.ach fleece were but a wholly coat unbuttoned.
And many, many other memories come,
Of cities fairer than our country holds;
Of waters gushing among blue-grey gums;
Or mighty pastures, each with lonely horsemen
Loping the morning, • singing as they go;
Of beaches where the sun-tanned dare the
sharks;
Or bush, the same fob miles, all feathery-dim,
Each fathom of it green-grey, feathery-dim
(Distinct, yet indistinct, almost like seaweed),
Where thirst has killed her hundreds, and will
kill.
But among all these memories I hear,
Erom gum-trees dead or blossoming, the
magpies,
With that strange song so moving and so sweet,
The very voice of that far-distant land,
bo sweet that all who hear if must be moved
To hear it once again before they die.
JOHN MASEFIEID
(in A Letter from Pontus).
DEATH OF
A GHOST
A cable reached
Australia the
other day an-
il oun c mg the
death of one
G. K. Chesterton, since when all the
papers in the land that have a thought
for literary affairs, and some that have
not, have published articles, criticisms,
appreciations and the like, in the gener-
ous fashion we have of holding inky
wakes on Great Men. A noble custom,
and, as far as I have seen, it has been
observed, with a proper respect for ritual
and tradition.
Too late for the wake, there is nothing
left for me to celebrate but the partici-
pants therein. I celebrate them all for
being much more fortunate than I am.
For either they had all at some time seen
this Chesterton in the flesh and can thus
vouch for his having lived, or else they
have imaginations to conjure him up, not
as a Great Man or a Great Writer —
that is easy enough to do —but plainly
as a man, for so it is they write of him.
If theirs is the former fortune, then they
have seen him, not in some drawing but
in huge clothes, blocking up a doorway,
obliterating one of the lions in the
Square, snookering a barman and all his
paraphernalia in a Fleet-street pub, giv-
ing his seat in the tram to the three ladies
or even (which must have been a fair
sight) sharing a platform with —to me—
those other notable ghosts, Shaw and
Belloc, and, on the evidence of a book
made out of this meeting, holding even
Shaw in dialectics.
Lacking either that fortune or the
alternative fortune of the wakers’ superb
imaginations, ghosts are all that any of
these is to me. I have seen none of them
plain. The nearest I have had is the
synthetic spectacle of G. B. Shaw mak-
ing faces at me on a film, an apparition
no less ghostly than the hollow voice
emanating therefrom, or thereabout.
Not merely a ghost, but the ghostly
representation of a ghost.
To me all of them are nothing more
palpable than ideas. They are ghosts,
or myths, and that I have my ideas of
them does not alter this. I have my
ideas of them from a dozen sources—
from photographs, caricatures, biographi-
cal accounts, and from such of their
writings as I have had time to read. All
sorts of such/hearsay. And I have no
doubt whatever that it' I were to meet
one of them in the flesh (if so they are)
and get to know him, my idea of him
would completely disappear, and an
entirely new thing—my version of the
man—would take its place.
Meanwhile, I have no thought of
sharing with, giving to, or impressing
upon anybody else my idea of any of
these myths, including the one Chester-
ton who is reported to have died. Every-
one will have his own idea already; and
to add to any idea is to destroy it.
And even to myself the idea of this
Chesterton myth is extremely vague. It
is composite of all sorts of nebulous evi-
dence, all of it contradictory. There are
caricatures which if I believe them all I
believe he was a balloon, a foundation
stone, a bottle-tree, an archbishop,
Father Christmas, a pork butcher, a
ponderous intellectual, a vat of yeast and
an idiot. It can be said that in all these
there runs a theme of size, and if you
can hang a baggy suit and clump a felt
hat on Size and call that the man you
are easy enough to satisfy. I must call
it a ghost.
Photographs are no better, and
biographers are worse, with all their
conflicting little glances building up into
a distant fantasy: “That genial, eclectic
spirit” ; “He is modern but medieval”
(Ernest Rhys); “....sings songs in the
company of his friends” ; “....writes
letters to his little god-daughters” (J. P.
de Fonseka); “..,. was born in the staid
suburb of Kensington in the year 1874” ;
“... .went to begin life tamely as a clerk
in an office” ; “ ... . used to walk London
carrying a sword-stick, yearning for a
wild hour in which he might use it gal-
lantly” (St. John Adcock); .. .we dis-
cover at the end of our reading that,
though our author has hammered his
opinions home, he has not made himself
plain to us ; the real man is still hidden
away” (J. B. Priestley); “... .Mr. Ches-
terton’s immense cleverness and charm” ;
“... .more serious than a skin complaint
is Mr. Chesterton’s religious orthodoxy”
(Arnold Bennett); dozens of them.
I turn to his writings, of which I may
have read a twentieth part, but this is
worse still, for it is chaos, haunted with
the ghost of a ghost. It is not any chaos ;
it is the chaos of fantasies. It is no
better when I grasp at the hope of a recent
Everyman volume of selections said to
have been made by this Chesterton of
his work. It is only a ghost of the
greater chaos that looms without. The
Father Brown stories, which I like ex-
tremely little, ghosts of detective stories
that they are, impossible to realise, to
see, to in any way credit or accept. The
poems . . . would they be said to be
thin, excepting the likes of “Lepanfo,”
the ballads and that of Noah? The
essays . . . but, as I said, I am late
for the wake, and if the essays—“A
Defence of Nonsense”; “A Defence of
Rash Vows” ; “French and English”
(which made Bennett bite) ; that bril-
liant gem of literary criticism “Pickwick
Papers” ; “A Piece of Chalk” (though
it’s not present in this small book)- —if
the wakers have not already sufficiently
celebrated the Chestertonian essay there
is still need of no word from me, except
that they are the one part of this myth
called Chesterton that 1 hold to.
It would take nearly the whole of this
page to catalogue the books that carry
his name as responsible for the whole or
part—it's said he wrote as many as four
books in a year and often three in a
year—and therefore it would take a
book to meet his case at all.
CECIL MANN.
Anthological
The Faber
Book of Modern
Verse has less
muck in it than most anthologies; and
it has a good introduction by its editor,
Michael Roberts, author of A Critique
of Poetry. I admit that almost everyone
is the author of a critique of modern
poetry; no sooner does a young poet
get a book published than he signs him-
self up for a long and exhausting—ex-
haustive—essay showing how all the
poetry since Homer had a certain ten-
dency, which, peculiarly enough, comes
to full flower in the recent poems of the
author, available (see back cover) for
only 7s. 6d. or 11s. 3d. at any good
bookshop. Nevertheless, the introduction
which Mr. Roberts gives this new an-
thology is remarkable for its insight into
the quality of poetry and its thorough
exposure of the technical peculiarities
of his. authors; and in it he says:—*
I have found Mr. Aldington’s poems,
in spite of their innovations, disappoint-
ing.... (he earlier poems of Mr. Muriro
and many of the poems of Mr. Cummings
affect me similarly. The poet has seen
something, and almost seen it clearly; and
then at the end, unable to say it, he has
been content to say some lesser thing, and
the true poem remains unwritten.
That is very good, because it describes
not only some work which Mr. Roberts
has left out of his book, but about three-
quarters of what he has put in. It’s more
honest than any anthology I've seen:
they’ve even roped in Robert Graves
and Laura Riding, joint authors of the
celebrated Pamphlet Against Antholo-
gies; but in the work of such as Emp-
son, Day Lewis, Auden, Madge, Barker
and Gascoigne there seems to be a de-
termination to 1 leLthe reader sec nothing
clearly. For one thing, the materials
are for the most part philosophic ab-
stractions, which have always been the
worst material for the artist, and, for
another, all obvious logical connections
have been removed, if ever they were
there. You can start anywhere and read
on. You can begin a poem by Mr.
Auden and transfer half-way through
to the last 20 lines of a poem by Mr.
Gascoigne without noticing anything
amiss; indeed, without noticing any-
thing. Much of this kind of thing
derives from the work of Pound and
Eliot; and why should these be good
and those bad?
I think that when people speak of
Eliot and Pound they speak too much
of technique and too little of genius.
The poet is born, and only once; he
does not transfer his essence to his fol-
lowers. What is great about T. S. Eliot,
although he tries to disown it, is the
malicious wit of which his technique is
only a means of expression. What is
great about Ezra Pound is the warm and
complicated flood of feeling for which
he had to find expression. You can’t
have great art without great technical
powers ; but when the technique is stu-
pendous it does no more than intensify
the light around one man ; thus, to the
discerning, Beethoven’s technique was
hardly enough, but Wagner had too
much.
That’s how it is. These young
writers (those I have mentioned range
from 20 to 28 or 30) know more about
how to do it than what to do. or, more
correctly, they have mastered a great
many tricks without learning the trade.
At the best, they are not sufficiently in-
teresting in themselves. At the worst,
they are not able, as their editor says, to
put down what they have half-seen. And
take even such as Spender, who cannot
so easily be grouped away: he is a
young man, and look at his subjects the
unemployed, hard times, mooning over
abstract revolutionary theories—well but
ineffectively done. As Clive Bell said
of the young London artists in 1920:-
Those thoughtful young men whose
works have been causing such a commo-
tion might almost as well have been blind.
They seem to have seen nothing; at any
rate, they have not reacted to what they
saw in that particular way in which visual
artists react. They arc not expressing
what they feel for something that has
moved them as artists, but rather what
they think about something that has horri-
lied them as men. Their pictures depart,
not from a visual sensation, but from
moral conviction....
In short, no real personal feeling ; not
what the poet feels from his own ex-
periences, needs and desires ; but what,
after consulting the works of other
poets, the weather forecasts, the .Stock
Exchange list, the war headlines in the
daily papers, the birth-rate, books on
astronomy, autonomy, Communism, per-
version, etc., he feels would be a good
statement of a workable philosophy, or
a speech on how the affairs, of the world
should be conducted on the day after his
book comes out.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Forthcoming
Australian
Books
Now in proofs for
book publication by
The Bulletin is a
further diverting,
finely observed
account of station
aborigines’ life by
the young Westralian writers, Fanny
and Elizabeth Durack. In the manner
of All. About and, like it, illustrated
by the authors, it is a cheerful brevity.
The Bulletin is also printing
Dymphna Cusack’s brittle novel Jung-
frau, placed by the judges next to
Tiburon in last year’s S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize competition.
Also for publication within the next
few months, Angus and Robertson lists
an interesting selection of new work by
Australian authors. It includes a novel
by Brian Pen ton. carrying forward the
Landtakers story ; Seasons, a blank-verse
poem by Kenneth Mackenzie, on a scale
of construction rarely attempted by Aus-
tralians ; J. J. Hardie’s The Bridle
Track, strongly commended in the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize last year and voted
by Bulletin readers one of the most
popular of the serials selected; a
racing novel by “Banjo” Paterson, The
Shearer's Colt; Caribbean Interlude,
a personal account by Frank Dalby
Davison of his experiences as one of the
crew of a Caribbean fruit boat, brief,
and said to be in a class with Man-Shy;
When Cobb and Co. Was King, by Will
Lawson, a saga of Australian coaching
days, the serial rights of which have been
snapped up by four city dailies ; Rolling
Down the Darling, another characteristic
Frank Clune mixture of personal obser-
vation, history and anecdote ; Wilderness
Orphan, an animal story by Dorothy
Cottrell; Centralian natives in back to
the Stone Age, by Charles Chewings;
natural-life observations in Keith C.
McKeown’s Spider Wonders of Aus-
tralia; William Hatfield car-touring
round Australia in Australia through
the Windscreen, and a novel, Big Timber,
by the same author ; Boom-time Gold,
a novel by a Melbourne bookseller;
Bleak Dawn and Other Plays, by Sydney
Tomholt, highly praised by Bernard
Shaw; Dirk Spaanders, by Ernest Wells,
(Continued on page 4A


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways-
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
"The Senior Store ’
mm
'‘While 1 Live I’ll Grow'
m
m
m
m
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
c^CHINA
• SPLENDID OFFERS IN
QUALITY TEA SETS
21-Piece China Tea Sets
These Tea Sets are really beautiful . . . made of fine
English Aynsley China and charmingly decorated with
enamelled floral designs and smart terracotta coloured
borders. What a splendid opportunity the Sale offers
to thrifty buyers ... a clear saving of 20/-. Set com-
prises 6 each Cups and Saucers, 6 Plates, 1 Sugar and
Cream Jug and 1 Cake Plate. Price, set 75/-
Sale Price, set 55/-
7'Si-
-55-
As Illustrated
23-Piece Floral Tea Set
2.
Here is a charming Tea Set, inexpensively priced, but
reliable for long, serviceable use. It comprises 23 pieces,
decorated with floral designs in dainty colourings. Six
each Teacups and Saucers, 6 Plates, 1 Teapot, 1 Covered
Sugar Basin, 1 Cream Jug and I Cake Plate.
Price, set 23/6
Sale Price, set 17/6
25%-
176
Attractive Dinner Sets
33-Piece ‘CrownDucal' “Gainsborough”
3. .
The "Crown Ducal” Dinner Set, “Gainsborough” is
available at a worthwhile Sale reduction. This beautifu 1
Dinner Set is of a quality that will wear fo r years
and years. Charmingly decorated with embossed border
of roses. Price, set £5/57-
Sale Price, set 99/6
£s^
996
A modern Lager Set of fine,
faintly-smoked glass that
would be a very handsome
addition to anyone’s collection
of glassware. The design is
smartly unusual, and coloured
bands are a tasteful decora-
tion.
•
A
a
x*
18/6 Jardinieres
Jardinieres that
will add to
the attractive-
ness of any
14/-
room. Buy several during
the Sale and you will bene-
fit by the genuine reduc-
tion. Blue ground with
neat floral designs and
finished lustre glaze.
Price, each 18/6
Sale Price, each .... 14/-
© China and Glassware
—Third Floor. Free De-
livery City and Suburbs
only.
OQ
ml
BgpnSmfpg
1!
I
an
»*»■
SSsSsSii a is m i
ft
0
Vj
k-y')
J#
W.
y.v
i
•5-v
~V,\l
sTO
l
■‘ „ i. 4.
M
,
co
K)
©
§H
~v-r'.c
NiX/
id
is®
Jr
&
-d
a
\
V
Ik
rci
51
um
C 3
5S
.-.- :
30/- LAGER SETS
A really worthwhile genuine saving on a
handsome Lager Set. It comprises a Jug and
six Shapely Tumblers, tastefully decorated
with coloured bands of Silver, Red and
Silver or Blue and Silver. Good lasting
quality. Price, set 307-
Sale Price, set 25/-
7S
PER SET
6/- Sandwich Plate
Everybody who
sees these Sand-
wich Plates will
want one, for, be-
sides being ex-
56
tremely useful, they are very
smartly designed. A con-
venient size ... 1 inches,
made of strong clear glass
with a highly polished finish.
Price, each 6/-
Sale Price, each 5/6
10/6
Hors d’Oeuvres Dish
of Beautiful Clear
Glass.
The Sale enables you to
genuinely save 2/- on one of
these smart Hors d’Oeuvres
Dishes. Look at the illus-
tration ... a very smart
design in five sections. In
strong clear glass, highly
polished. Price, each . . 12/6
Sale Price 10/6
10/6 Hors d’Oeuvres
Dish
A smaller Hors
d’Oeuvres Dish that
is useful and reliable
for good service. It’s
9/-
made of fine quality clear
polished glass in three sections.
Buy during the Sale and bene-
fit by the generous reduction.
Price, each 10/6
Sale Price, each 9/-
Write
for our New Sale
Catalogue. Sent
post free on request
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD.,
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


\
X
m&te. tnl&o
tfcrt. i/CttiA WUrPI&I/
' WITH '
Super Plume 2tU
-*■ THE 5 POWER PETROL f
CIEAROSOI Mobiloil
PRACTICALLY 100%PURE LUBRICANT
described as “a thriller of the Hartog
buccaneering days” ; Gone Nomad, travel
by Archer Russell; and Sky Pilot’s Last
Flight, by Langford Smith, a sequel to
Sky Pilot of Arnhem Land.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
I7VEN more than Sydney Smith was
_ f°r his Smith of Smiths, the subject
ol Lahby : The Life of Henry Lab-
ouchere is a gift from the gods to
Hesketh Pearson. In his Gilbert and
Sullivan the rancor of those unami-
a.ble subjects impinged on his feeling
for good-fellowship, wit and bright
sense ; I frankly dodged his Life of
Hazlitt. But Labby and the Smith of
all Smiths are of his own kidney, Labby
coming easiest to his nimble nib in that
Labby’s life was so crowded with natu-
rally hilarious incidents that the baldest
account of it would be good reading.
Labby’s early doings in England, Europe,
America and Mexico ; his cheerful
gambling and gadfly loving ; his duel
fought “in order to establish an Eng-
lishman’s right not to fight duels” ; his
other fantastic escapes; his use of Trinity
College, Cambridge, for no “other pur-
pose than a racecourse residence” ; his
amazing career in the diplomatic ser-
vice—all of which Mr. Pearson lightly
concentrates into a chapter or so —
would be plentiful material for an event-
ful full-dress biography. Even in deal-
ing more thoroughly with his subsequent
lively career of politics and journalism
Mr. Pearson finds himself too generously
endowed and dismisses huge slices with
such conveniences as: “We cannot
follow the founder of ‘Truth’ through 25
years of litigation.” But there’s ample
for a riotous book in what’s retained of
the Labby who wrote in his “Truth”:
“Distrust all advice and make no ex-
ception in favor of ours” ; whom Queen
Victoria called “that horrible lying
Labouchere,” King Edward described as
“that viper,” Winifred Scawen Blunt
called “one of the very few quite honest
M.Ps.,” and Rosebery, though he broke
violently with Labby later, would have
paid “£lOOO a year to write me a letter
every morning” ; the Labby whose wife,
interviewing Gladstofte, had to talk for
“45 minutes to enumerate his merits,”
and of whose dying moments it is re-
corded that
....he was dozing, when a spirit-lamp
on the table by his side was knocked
over and flared up. His eyes opened:
“Flames?” he murmured. “Not yet, 1
think.”
Thus Mr. Pearson: a pity, if true, for
wasn’t that Voltaire’s exit? . . . and if
there’s one thing Labby was not, it is
a plagiarist.
* * * *
The main figure of C. E. Vulliamy’s
Mrs. T hr ale of Streatham isn’t Mrs.
Thrale, but, by sheer weight of per-
sonality, the Doctor. Everyone must be
impressed by Mr. Vulliamy’s great know-
ledge of his period. He leaves a feel-
ing of certainty, of confidence, that he
has lived among the whole available
evidence, testing every sentence of it. And
it is doubtless right enough, in testing
for veracity, to de-Boswellise Johnson,
though my reading of Boswell does not
leave the romantic conception of the
Doctor that Mr. Vulliamy ascribes to all
those who base their idea of Johnson on
the Life. If anything, the conception I
have, wholly from Boswell, varies little
from Mr. Vulliamy’s depiction, for all
his vigorous debunking. Boswell drew
a Johnson of heroic proportions, but it
is hardly sense to suggest that he drew
merely a hero. Mr. Vulliamy gives a
greater emphasis and enlargement to the
Doctor’s foibles —his gluttonous eating,
his dirt, his unfeeling rudeness —but all
that, not exactly softly presented, is in
Boswell. As for the conclusion that “the
ponderous pet of the intellectuals” was
profoundly in love with Mrs. Thrale,
this seems to me, on Mr. Vulliamy’s own
evidence, to boil down to the sentimental
fondness of an ageing man for a vivacious
woman, in whose home he had lived for
16 years and been exceptionally well-
treated. Boswell thought he would
marry her, when Thrale died, but so did
every scandalmonger. Prurient-minded
people would impute the like where any
married pair took a man into their
family and befriended him for many
years. But Mr. Vulliamy has a novelist’s
joy in complications. He will not accept
what, on his evidence, seems probable:
the simple explanation that Johnson and
Thrale were odd but genuine friends. All
his complications spring from this re-
fusal. He will not have it that Johnson
and Thrale could be friends ; their char-
acters are incompatible. On my own ex-
perience of masculine friendship, I
should say that apparent incompatibility
is bad evidence. The thunderous talker
and the silent brewer might have paired
well. But Mr. Vulliamy is convinced of
Johnson’s profound love for Mrs. Thrale,
and his conclusions are colored by that
theory. So is his imputation against Mrs.
Thrale of having behaved unreasonably
in breaking with Dr. Johnson after
Thrale’s death. On his evidence, John-
son joined with Thrale in a collusion to
subject her for 16 years. She must often
have felt an almost murderous desire to
be rid of what, to a woman of her thrust-
ing temperament, must have been an
intolerable oppression. Mr. Vulliamy
implies as discreditable to her even that'
she got rid of the Doctor gently! But
the unfairest thing he does is to make
fun of the Doctor’s short sight, and then
ridicule his failure to appreciate scenery.
After which, and the hearty debunking
of all but the most minor characters,
there is a retributive sound in his “Let us
be generous,” 20 lines from the end of
his vigorous, often scathing account.
% : ' i ij: t'fi
Debunking flourishes also in Vincent
Sheean’s Sanfelice, which I have seen
praised in superlative terms as a histori-
cal novel and compared with the author’s
In Search of History. I doubt both criti-
cisms. In Search of History is a magnifi-
cent personal account of intellectual and
physical adventure, with a tremendous
breadth of canvas covering Europe, China
and Russia, and depth of emotional ex-
perience of a very rare order. But in the
course of that search, in revolutionary
China and Russia, Mr. Sheean had his
mind strongly colored, and it is with
this pigment he paints fictional history.
Sanfelice is a version of the attempt at
revolution inspired by Rousseau’s doc-
trines in Naples, 1799 ; the author tak-
ing sides to represent the revolutionaries
as splendid and heroic, while depicting
their opponents, Nelson among them, as
detestable and overrated. An excep-
tion is Mr. Sheean’s heroine, a young
aristocrat who innocently becomes iden-
tified with the revolutionists. She
represents all who are ignorantly indiffer-
ent to affairs and will pay for their ignor-
ance by dying ingloriously between the
two sides whenever revolution occurs:
the moral is to get on the right side
while the going’s good and strengthen
the Cause. Mr. Sheean limns his picture
exceptionally clearly; though automa-
tons, his people are clearly visible;
though stark, his writing is pointed and
full of vigor. But if his is the right
recipe for fictional representation of his-
tory, the right firewood for such cookery
has become the Domain soapbox.
* * X *
Of the foregoing Labby wins hands
down as an entertainer, though in a strict
assessment Mr. Pearson is a superficial
biographer. On the other hand, Mrs.
T hr ale of Streatham is an exceptional
literary performance ; admirable writing,
engaging reading, notable for additional
information about remarkable people
and as a convincing period picture.
C. M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Sanfelice: Vincent Sheean (Hamish
Hamilton ; Bs. 6d. net). Interesting. See
Satchel.
The Monster of Mu: Owen Rutter
(Philip Allan ; 2s. 6d.). Reprint. Any-
one who wants to study how an author
can improve should read this and Clear
Waters. Others should give this a miss.
I’ll Mourn You Later: Catherine
Whitcombe (Chatto and Windus ; 7s.
6d.). An English critic proposes to read
this competent study of a pathological
American family “again and again.”
Time must be on holiday over yon.
Clansman: Ethel Boileau (Hutchin-
son ; Bs. 6d.). Generations of Stewarts
—lairds and bankers—crowd a pro-
logue ; then, from 1914 to 1935, a prig-
gish scion carries on, clinging to the
Hieland estate though a speculating uncle
has done in the roll. Per his man stick-
ing to the hero through soldiering and
(worse) London’s tumble cocktail
wummen, the author sentimentalises a
theme of Scots clannishness to make a
“good old-fashioned novel.”
BIOGRAPHY . . .
Lobby : The Life of Henry Labouchere :
Hesketh Pearson (Hamish Hamilton;
lOs. 6d. net). Good. See Satchel.
Mrs. Thr ale of S treat ham : C. E. Vul-
liamy (Cape; Angus and Robertson ;
18s. 6d.). Good. See Satchel.
POETRY . . .
A Letter from Pontus, and Other
Verse: John Masefield (Heinemann;
Angus and Robertson ; 95.). Stanzas of
“Australia” reprinted on p. 2 fairly rep-
resent the verse in this collection of the
Laureate’s recent work. Opens with a
long pedestrian narrative of a visitor
to Ovid in exile and dejectedly closes on
the note:
Print not my life nor letters; put them by:
When I am dead let memory of me die.
Occasional flashes of the former angry
fire, but generally the poems reflect
saddened calm and contemplation in age.
The Faber Book of Modern Verse
(Faber and Faber; Roycroft Library;
11s. 3d.). Good. See “Anthological,”
p. 2.
CRIME AND DETECTION . . .
Murder at the Old Stone House:
Charlotte Murray Russell (Master
Thriller ; 7s. 6d.). Another spinster busy-
body sleuth, so like all the others in com-
monplaceness of character and snoopy
methods as to suggest they’re not as much
a fashion as a family. This member not
only snoops out the mystery of an un-
pleasant old woman shot and another
strangled, but deputises for the author
as narrator, and holds the culprit com-
petently concealed. Quite passable.
GENERAL . . .
The 8.8. C. Annual, 1936. Last year’s
policy and programmes done up like a
large magazine. Thinking of certain
other programmes emphasises how
odious is comparison.
A Bird Diary: Godfrey Harrison
(Dent; 6s. net). Bird observations in
England, jotted down for the observer’s
pleasure, but of thin interest, though 15
Gibbings woodcuts help make it a book.
various Verse
Triolets.
Still looking steadily in the face of life,
I see my face, grown grey with coming giiel,
With harrowing wrinkles rife,
Still looking steadily in the face of life;
Through mother,, mistress and wife,
Kindness, hope and belief,
Still looking steadily in the face of life,
I see my face grown grey with coming grief:
I see my face, grown grey with coming grief,
Still looking steadily in the face of life,
Smile, when, with relief,
I see my face, grown grey with coming grief,
Proud, yet, that in brief
Peace wrought from strife
1 see my face, grown grey with coming grief,
Still looking steadily in the face of life.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Danse Macabre.
Nature is unconquered still; is yet
As wild as when the djnosauri trod
The low, wide marshes and the untilled sod;
For out where the wild trees, dripping in the
wet
And moonlit mist, are black in silhouette
Against the Gothic hills, a wild, rapt god—
A metamorphosis of weird regret —
Is in a seabird’s cry. And as the clod
Engendered! the daisy in the field,
The low jazz-music of humanity
(Which many dance-halls by the river yield
In suavity and wan urbanity)
Is unperturbed about the mangroves wheeled—
Young female breasts embrace Insanity.
QUEENSLAND.
JOSEPH O'DWYER.
The Madrigal.
I never rightly understood
How singing men and women could,
Starting at such different places,
And going at such different paces,
Chase each other in and out,
One with whisper, one with shout,
And tread on one another’s toes,
And yet so neatly at the close
From those bewildering toils escape
And all together breast the tape;
Until a learned man whom I
Had asked explained the reason why.
Our good Queen Bess, it would appear,
When she sat down to beef and beer,
Or other coarse and homely fare,
Kept always standing near her chair
Three bards of reputation great
To keep her merry while she ate.
Someone had introduced the fashion
For which the good Queen took a passion
Of eating jam and butter spread
Upon a vehicle of bread;
Too long her ecstasies were marred
Because, like me, she found it hard
To make three things, or even two,
End all at once as they should do
(However hard I damwell try
They won’t synchronically die),
And much she hated to be faced
With one or other gone to waste;
And when this was at last achieved
Her joy is easily conceived.
Determined now to jubilate
She caused her bards to celebrate
The clearing of the royal plate;
When with a stern and solemn phiz
The basso gave instructions, viz.:
“Next time our gracious Queen intends
To show her skill in joining ends,
You, Number Three,” the leader said,
“Shall celebrate the wholesome bread;
You, Number Two, the praise must utter
Of the delicious yielding butter;
As for my humble self, I am
Resolved to hymn the noble jam;
With due regard to music’s laws
Take tempo from the royal jaws;
Take care to make the music fit
The progress of each separate bit;
His own ingredient each must watch
And at the very moment snatch
And a fresh verse begin to boom
As each good morsel meets its doom.”
’Twas very deftly done, and all
Went well, and thus in banquet-hall
Was born the merry madrigal.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


jy
m
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Vv estminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World's Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
COMES TO AUSTRALIA
AND SCORES AN INSTANT SUCCESS!
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN -
of the Great ST.THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
_ AND ENJOY IT!
No More Stomach Pain
Prof H MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of. the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part ot the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder is >
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, etc.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital IOU /©
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack ,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS-NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach-disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief —the most worth-while
benefit —you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be just as good .
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse accept no substitute.
11l
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only in White Pack *
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
Every doctor, the World over recognises the
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to YOU. In future, eat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
HARRIS
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to tha
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever in connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON - MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for any form of Digestive and
Stomach upset accompanied by Acid, Gas or Nausea.
If supplies
( adding 4d.
of HARRISON-MACLEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
mat
,_V -
■
• ?-i ; : ?
m
■
■
mm.
i
■Kg
-
:!• "' : '-
■
I
■
■
H
■
Sfe ■
W& M I
■
■i
■
M
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars .


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2941.
June 24, 1936.
ANOTHER TALE OF TWO CITIES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : J. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 I Os.;
6 months. 15s. 6d.; 3 months, 8s.
IN STEVENS’S STATE.
In the early depression years South Australia, in
which a run of bad seasons preceded the slump, had
the worst unemployment figures, even when Lang
was performing in N. S. Wales. The general average
of unemployed, as recorded by the Commonwealth
Statistician, was 27.4 p.c. in 1931 and 29 p.c. in 1932:
South Australia reported 32.5 p.c. in 1931 and 34 p.c.
in 1932 ; N. S. Wales, 30.8 p.c. and 32.5 p.c.
For the 1935 year, thanks in part to liberal gifts
of Commonwealth money, which has enabled the
Adelaide Government to reduce taxes, S.A. returns of
out-of-works got down to 17.6 p.c., and the movement
is still downward ; in the first quarter of 1936 12.2 p.c.
was reached. For three years after Lang was got
rid of, IN. S. Wales figures were reduced 4 p.c. p.a.
In the fourth quarter of 1935 a 17 p.c. return was
produced. But in the first three months of 1936
there was a rise to 17.2 p.c., and one of those U.A.P.
newspapers which can never see anything wanting
in U.A.P. performance has been driven to admit that
Lang or somebody “has called a halt in the good
work,” and that “70,000 men remain unemployed.”
This is remarkable, for N. S. Wales is the richest of
the six States, and the one which has derived the most
benefit from the increased value of wool, butter, base-
metal and factory output. Also it has gone further
than any other State in testing whether a people can be
taxed into prosperity, as politicians maintain. With
a trifle less than two-fifths of the Australian popu-
lation, it collected last year more than half of the
State revenue raised by means of unemployed-relief
taxes: £5,262,621 out of £10,056,339. Even if a
liberal allowance is made for such S.A. and Tas.
income-tax revenue as is applied to unemployed-relief
(these States have no separate relief taxes), the N. S.
Wales Government must be extracting half of what
is dragged from the pocket, allegedly for the workless.
In 1935 also the N. S. Wales Government spent
more than half of the loan money played up on State
“works”: £9,724,462 out of £17,741,276. This
Government, of course, believes that loan expenditure
on “works” is another way of regaining prosperity
and wiping out unemployment. Yet unemployment
in the first quarter of 1936 had got back to 17,2 p.c.
in N, S. Wales, compared with 8.5 p.c. in Queensland,
10.3 p.c. in Westralia, 10.8 p.c. in Victoria and 11.1
p.c. in Tasmania. Something must be wrong.
Perhaps it is really a fallacy that everything can
be put right by borrowing and taxing. The U.S.A. has
tried both expedients for three years on the most
grandiose scale ever known, and among the results
are the hugest public debt and annual deficit on
American record, while there are still “11,500,000
unemployed and 20,000,000 on relief.”
No doubt a large part of the expenditure has
been reserved for “works” which add nothing to the
production of wealth, and which, when completed or
left incomplete, become additional burdens on the
taxpayers. This has certainly been the case in N. S.
Wales. There, in spite of the fact that the Govern-
ment managed to get rid of nearly ten borrowed
millions, for which it will have to find about £375,000
a year in interest, besides £2,000,000 or so, borrowed
to cover a deficit, it has been admitted that not
one closer-settlement block was thrown open last
year. Nor has the Government any closer-settlement
scheme on hand. Yet it could surely be made a con-
dition of debt-relief, for which the Commonwealth
is finding the money, that applicants with more land
than they can farm properly (there are many such)
should surrender portion for closer-settlement, even
in the form of three-acres-and-a-cow holdings
The S.A. experience certainly suggests that the
position in N. S. Wales could be greatly improved by
reduction of taxes, and in the case of the alleged
relief tax reduction might be made conditional on the
giving of employment. But, instead of lightening this
load on wage-payers, actual and potential, the Sydney
Government is increasing it in some cases, in defiance
of all the canons of fair taxation. It applied its alleged
relief tax (out of which it now pays child endowment
and other charges) to income from other States
already taxed by those States and by the Common-
wealth, and to income from other countries ; and it
even refused to exempt taxes paid to the legitimate
taxing authorities when assessing its own. (For that
matter, it charges “ordinary” tax on income deducted
at the source, allegedly for unemployed-relief.)
In the case of some N. S. Wales residents drawing
income from Victorian property, the N. S.
Wales impost, is 70 p.c. or 80 p.c. higher than the tax
paid to the Government which protects the property.
Now the Sydney Government is extending the utterly
immoral “principle” on which the bleeding of such
residents is based —extending it to the “ordinary” tax.
And here is how Mr. Spooner brazens it out:
Strict adherence to the source oft the income confers
an undue advantage upon residents of the State who
make their investments outside the State, as compared
with residents who use their money to produce income
in the State. Objectors to taxing incomes derived from
outside the State do not explain why a resident who
draws his income from N.S.W. sources should pay
more tax on a similar amount of income than his
neighbor who, while also residing in New South Wales,
draws his income from a State where taxes are lower.
So there are States “where taxes are lower.”
It is tantamount to an admission that affairs
are better ordered in those States than in Mr.
Spooner’s, though Mr. Spooner seems incapable
of perceiving it. He likewise seems incapable
of grasping the fact that N. S. Wales residents
“who make their investments outside the State”
have really in many cases inherited property “outside”
or have come to N. S. Wales because they preferred
it to the other place or places. N. S. Wales could
get heaps of such people from other parts of Aus-
tralia, and from Britain, British India and the Malay
States, if its Government took the large view—let
those from overseas have the advantage of the
exchange, and in all cases abandoned the double-tax
ramp, realising that it would indirectly get consider-
able tax-revenue from sojourners’ spending money.
But very few strangers have come to N. S. Wales
to stay since it began taking Is. in the £ (lOd. a £
now) from income earned elsewhere.
Not only has the double-tax ramp deprived
N. S. Wales of the best sort of immigrants
in hard times, but it has driven N. S. Wales
people to other countries. During six years
to the end of 1935 Queensland gained 10,515
persons by excess of immigration over emigration.
By excess of emigration over immigration N. S. Wales
lost 4723 persons. Queensland taxes are stiff, and
inter-State traders complain that the assessment of
their Queensland profits is arbitrary and unjust. But
its Government does not follow the Sydney Govern-
ment in taxing income from other States.
THE DEFENCE OF AUSTRALIA.
[This article has been written by Rear-Admiral Feakes.
The Bulletin associates itself with every word.]
Again Mr. Parkhill has spoken.
And again he has spoken in terms soothing to
the troubled breast of the citizen who took the Prime
Minister seriously when recently he declared that
“Australia, following Britain, has allowed her defence
to become no defence at all.”
No such thought disturbs Mr. Lyons’s Minister
for Defence. Australia is pulling her weight, and is
doing all that can be expected of her —in his opinion.
The Minister states that good progress is being
made towards the objective of rendering Australia, as
far as possible, self-supporting in the matter of ammu-
nition supply. There the consolation ends.
Of progress towards the equally vital necessity
of warship-construction, docking and repair facilities
to meet the needs of a modern fleet, there is no
mention. Yet it is 25 years since a selected group
of mechanics and artisans was sent to Britain for train-
ing, preparatory to the formation of a shipbuilding
staff to build Australian ships in Australian yards.
The Minister referred to the reduction of defence
reached in the depths of the depression, 1931-32. There
is no suggestion that the return of prosperity is to
be signalised by a strongly revitalised defence pro-
gramme to meet the urgent need.
London cablegrams mention that only eight of
the 15 capital ships permitted to Britain by treaty are
now in commission. Shortage of personnel is one of
the causes. There have been no such cablegrams
from Washington or Tokio.
In respect of naval defence, shortage of per-
sonnel is Britain’s immediate and gravest problem.
Recent increases have brought the numbers to 100,000.
With a population roughly a seventh of that of
Britain, what is Australia doing? Australia’s pro rata
population subscription would appear to be not less
than 14,000 officers and men.
Is it really claimed that Australia is fully recog-
nising her duty to Empire naval defence by the sub-
scription of 4172 of all ranks and ratings?
Even as the Empire’s greatest need is naval per-
sonnel, so also is the question of the employment of
school-leaving youth among the greatest of Aus-
tralia’s social problems.
If Australia recognised and discharged her obvi-
ous duty many a young Australian would be spared
the demoralising experience of life on the dole.
The Minister speaks with considerable satisfac-
tion of the progress made in naval defence during
the life of the present Government. What exactly
has been done with regard to ships and men?
The seagoing squadron has. been increased by
three modern units to meet the objective, once more
declared, of “defence against raids.”
The one fighting unit has been absent since her
commissioning in October —absent on service in the
Mediterranean. Not, be it noted, because Britain is
at war, but simply because Britain has co-operated
with 50 other nations, Australia included, in exercising
(unsuccessfully) a modest form of “sanctions” on a
recalcitrant fellow-member of the League.
The other two units (the sloops) are suitable for
police and general utility duties only. They have
neither armament to fight nor speed to run.
The flagship has been reduced to a training unit.
The naval reserves have suffered considerable reduc-
tion. So much for “defence against raids.”
“Defence against raids” was the objective of those
who instituted Australia’s first naval force, the sloop-
of-war Victoria, in 1854, and again in the early years
of Federation.
In those periods Britain maintained a two-Power,
sometimes a three-Power, standard.
Is the Defence Department really playing the
defence game to-day with a two-Power British Navy
up its sleeve?
In my opinion, the answer is “Yes.” But that
is only a personal opinion.
The divergent views on defence efficiency held
by the P.M. and the Defence Minister are doubtless
due to difference of objective.
Whereas the Defence Minister is preparing forces
for the “defence-against-raids” objective of the pre-
war “security-by-purchase-from-Britain” system, the
P.M., in common with a huge majority of the 4 US *
tralian people, is thinking in terms of an Australian
subscription to an Empire force providing an efficient
defence of Australia.
It is the duty of service members of Parliament
to elucidate this question.
The present situation calls aloud for inquiry. For
that there are available officers of long and well-tried
service who command general confidence: I refer
particularly to Generals Chauvel and Brudenell White.
Both the observance of Government policy by
the Defence Department and expenditures consequent
thereon are long overdue for examination and audit
by competent authorities.
But, pending such an inquiry, action should
immediately be taken.
Among the various schools of thought there is
one doctrine on which all are agreed: the necessity
for anti-air defence.
The Admiralty has set an example to Australia
by rearming the old crusier Coventry as an
anti-aircraft battery. What more suitable vessel
for preparation as a mobile anti-air defence unit than
H.M.A.S. Adelaide? What more suitable vessel for
training flying-boat crews and naval personnel gener-
ally than H.M.A.S. Albatross? And there are the
destroyers in reserve —for the term of their service lives.
AFTER 111 YEARS.
Australia’s Northern Territory is nearly ten times
the size of England and Wales, and nearly three times
the size of Hitler’s Germany. It has cattle-stations
larger than some European countries with kings
and Parliaments. The Year-Book records that it is
112 years since “the Fort Dundas settlement was
formed at Melville Island,” and 70 years since cattle
were taken into the Macdonnell Range country. And
the Administrator reports that the population in 1935,
exclusive of aborigines, was 5276: 3682 Europeans,
697 Asiatics, the rest half-castes and “other races.”
There were 90 births during the year, and 56
are roughly classified as European. But “19 p.c.” of
the 56 resulted “from the mating of Europeans with
half-castes” ; actually 45 of the 90 new arrivals had
colored blood. The European birth-rate was 15.9
per 1000, the Chinese 26.9 per 1000. Rates of natural
increase were. 4.2 per 1000 European, 3.6 per 1000
Chinese, 13 per 1000 half-caste.
Though “the pastoral possibilities of certain parts
of the Territory were recognised at an early date,”
the net export of cattle during the one hundred-and-
eleventh year after “the first settlement was formed”
amounted to 29,700 head—about one to every 17
square miles. Pastoralists, it is recorded, “experienced
another very disappointing year,” but “a limited
market” for them “may be provided if mining de-
velops.” It isn’t developing much. The mineral output
for the year was valued at £75,000 Australian. Pro-
duction of pearls and shell was worth £40,000. It is
highly probable that aliens, whose competition was to
have been checked by the Government’s new launch
that unfortunately sank, got away with more.
For the rest, there are peanuts, of which £14,000
worth was marketed in 1935. And dairying is flourish-
ing—anyway, the one man engaged in it “sold butter
in Darwin throughout the year, and has shown that
dairying can be made profitable in supplying the
local market.” Apart from the peanut-growers and the
dairyman, “no agricultural developments took place.”
Under the heading “Encouragement of Primary
Production,” it is mentioned that “a very limited
number of applications was received,” but, as not one
of the applicants owned capital equal to one-third of
the advance required, nobody got any “encourage-
ment.” Two hopefuls applied for “relatively large
advances of wire and wire-netting.” They were
“advised to pursue their applications in conformity
with the terms of the Wire and Wire-netting Act,
No. 15, of 1927.” Net expenditure on “encourage-
ment” during 1935 seems to have been £1 10s.
This is all that can be recorded of a year’s accom-
plishment in one-seventh of the continent. It is not
as good country as the eastern littoral of Australia,
but there is good country —thousands of square miles
—on the Barkly Tableland, the Victoria and the Ord,
and especially along the big permanent rivers—the
Roper, Daly, McArthur, Alligator and many more.
In parts of the Territory members of famous
pastoral families like the Whites, the Forrests, the
Lewises and the Thonemanns have hung on for half
a century. Other parts so impressed Vesteys that
they put over a million sterling into pastoral and
meatworks investments. And, with everything against
them, stout-hearted miners keep going on twenty-odd
fields. For the Territory breeds men of as fine a
type as any born in the Empire.
But the land is bedevilled by politicians and
bureaucrats. It has been cursed with a succession
of southern Ministers who would rather let it lie
empty than grant long-term leases which would make
long-term investment of capital possible; Ministers
unable or unwilling to recognise that there must be
able men on the spot with authority to act without
referring everything to Canberra. The Territory needs
a long-distance, non-party policy which will open its
river bars and provide its better portions with cheap
transport over decent roads. It needs long leases of
pastoral lands and properly organised stock routes
leading somewhere. It needs meatworks —Vesteys will
open theirs again when reopening is made worth their
while—and portable batteries for prospectors and
R.A.N., R.A.A.F. and A.M.F. stations which, apart
from their military necessity, would furnish oppor-
tunities for patriotic and .adventurous lads and useful
local markets for settlers.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No More “Sanctions”!
Making the best of a bad the Baldwin
Government is abandoning sanctions.
The decision was announced to a turbulent House
by a very subdued Mr. Anthony Eden, whose conver-
sion to realism was sudden, as was his rise from
obscurity. The debate was preceded by an invasion
of 200 “Liberal” ladies lobbying for increasec.
“sanctions,” and the Foreign Minister was repeatedly
interrupted by warmongering pacifists. Labor mem-
bers raved, and Mr. Lloyd George, after dwelling
fondly on the fact —at least, he said it was a fact that
if it came to fighting Britain could rely upon support
from “the Mediterranean Powers,” especially France
and Spain (Spain!), thundered that it was “a cowardly
surrender,” adding that the Ministers were all
cowards.” .
The Governments of Australia, Canada and the
Irish Free State have also declared against “sanctions,
but Canberra intimates, in its meek fashion, that it
is still prepared to “tune in to Britain. ’ There is
no question of any unilateral action by Australia,
Mr. Lyons says.
Withdrawal of sanctions is a matter for discussion
by the whole League, along with any saieguards or
guarantees which might be imposed by the League.
“ This won’t do. The Baldwin Government has
been gravely weakened by a succession of events, the
Budget-leakage business among them. It may not
be able to hang on or to prevent the “sanctionists
forcing on another election. And that might go against
the Conservatives, in which case “following Britain
might conceivably mean following Mr. Lloyd George
and Viscount Cecil and Mr. Attlee and Mr. Herbert
Morrison —the gentleman who called upon the Italians
to rise against Mussolini —into war.
Australia expects and is entitled to a declaration
from its Government that in no circumstances will
it be dragged into more “sanctions” against Italy or
any “sanctions” against Germany or any other Power.
Millions of Britons would welcome such a declara-
tion for the sobering effect it would have on their
wild men and women.
Australia as “The Mug.”
Mr. Gullett and Mr. Thorby continue to assure us
that there is not the slightest need to worry about
the effects of the Whiskard-Gullett tariff, all being
for the best in the best of all worlds. Mr. Stevens,
one of our innocents abroad, has repeated the flatter-
ing tale, having visited Bradford ; Yorkshire, he says,
will see us righted.
Meanwhile, Japanese continue to look on at wool
sales, and, though Yorkshire was among the bidders
in Sydney, a newspaper reported after the third day
that average prices realised were £l2 19s. a bale and
9.7 d. a pound, as against £l5 7s. a bale and 11.3 d.
a pound at the closing May sales. And there were
“heavy withdrawals.”
At the same time the British response to Aus-
iralia’s “magnificent tariff gesture” has been so
unaccountably delayed that “it is most improbable
that the Minister of Commerce, Dr. Page, will leave
for Australia on June 28” —he was to have left months
ago. It has been suggested that the Old Man may
permit a 3 p.c. increase in imports of our chilled beef.
Three per cent, on the value (in sterling) of all his
1934-35 imports of Australian beef would amount
to £38,000 for a year. Australia has already lost three
or four times as much as that through Japanese
abstention from bidding and buying at the wool sales.
The Manchester “Guardian,” it seems, objects
to even a 3 p.c. increase. It demands the renewal of
the trade agreement with Argentina on the present
basis, which would mean banging and bolting the
door against any increase of British imports of Aus-
tralian beef for another term of years. And
dian” is the principal newspaper of Lancashire, in
whose interest the Whiskard-Gullett tariff was chiefly
framed —indeed, Lancashire might have written the
rayon and cotton piece-goods schedules itself. And
the South African Trade Commissioner at Tokio has
gleefully remarked that his country will be charmed
to sell another 250,000 bales of wool this year to
Japan, an arrangement which will put South Africa
in the way of rivalling Australia in respect of quality
as well as quantity of wool produced. His country,
he adds, “will not foolishly sacrifice its own interests
for the sake of Britain.” .
It seems ungrateful on Lancashire s part and
unneighborly on South Africa’s. Still, our rulers are
not children, and they ought to have learned by now
if they are capable of learning anything —that there
is no sentiment in business. Although members ot
the British Commonwealth of Nations have com-
mon interests in defence and in the preservation or
their institutions, their trade interests are apt to clash.
They have clashed before, but never before has the
Empire witnessed the spectacle of an Empire country
consenting to be “the mug,” as the Commonwealth
is blithely doing now.
Though Canberra has been officially informed
that a tariff ordinance against Australia is about to
be proclaimed, it still seems to believe that the Japanese
are bluffing. It may be right, but the probabilities are
that it is wrong again—as wrong as it was about
“sanctions.” In any case, the Lyons Government has
got Australia into a mess, and it will have to get
Australia out of the mess or make way for a Govern-
ment that can.
Another Warning to Wantons.
Failure of the market to subscribe £9,000,000 for
more Government loan “works” is the writing on the
wall for politicians who imagine that there is an un-
limited supply of cheap money for them to splash up.
Two of the last three internal loans have been
heavily undersubscribed. The £7,500,000 asked loi
last November was secured with some difficulty, but
subscriptions to the £12,500,000 of June, 193 d,
were £1,673,000 short, and the £9,000,000 loan
closed last week £1,800,000 light. The Loan
Council’s decision to raise £9,000,000 was made
in spite of the Commonwealth Bank Board s
warning that £8,000,000 was the most the market
should be asked for.
The politicians have been making the pace too
hot Since November, 1932, the Loan Council has
borrowed £83,000,000, and the national debt has
increased from £1,187,827,868 to £1,264,000,000, pay-
ments into sinking funds being only £6,000,000 or so.
In other words, the seven Governments are borrowing
about £18,500,000 a year more than they are paying
off, thus adding to the national debt nearly £3 per
head per year. . .
With the return of business activity, a moie
attractive field for investment presents itself to the
thrifty. Loan expenditure by Governments depends
on the caprices of politicians. Often it has no relation
whatever to business principles. Most people prefer
to invest their money in businesses controlled by men
who are not influenced by political considerations
nor trying to buy popularity in constituencies. In
short, there is little or no confidence in the ability
of Loan Council politicians to spend loan funds wisely.
The Loan Council will have to recognise that
fact and cut its coat accordingly.
The Parkhill Plan.
“N. 8.” attends a meeting—he also attended a war:
Although not a supporter of the Government, 1 went
along to the well-advertised U.A.P. meeting at Manly to heai
Parkhill on Defence. There were exactly 60 people present.
Most of them seemed over 60, while at least half were ladies.
The Minister deplored the absence of young people, and
expressed himself surprised at it. But it seemed unreasonable
to expect the absentees to desert talkies and dance halls just
to hear the Prince of Party Politicians imploring the elderly
ladies of Manly to help him in keeping Defence tree from
Party Politics.
Half a dozen speakers supported the War Lord. Tour are
politicians. Apart from a few rambling remarks about “guard-
ing our sacred heritage,” etc., nearly every speech contained
a reference to the desirability of Mr. Parkhill being advanced
in Cabinet rank —two mentioned the Prime Ministership. In
the present uncertainty as to who is Prime Minister, it seems
fair to assume that the real object of the meeting was to
pursue a hare other than the Defence animal.
The Plan? I had nearly forgotten that. It was the
same old Plan, plus some mysterious measures to be disclosed
when the Budget is presented.
For Commonwealth Control of Transport.
Texas, just inside the South Queensland border, is
266 miles from Brisbane and over 500 miles from
Sydney, but finds it cheaper and quicker to obtain
supplies from Sydney via Inverell. So does Inglewood
(Q.), 34 miles from Texas by branch railway line. N. S.
Wales rail-rates are less than half those which Queens-
land charges for a little over half the distance. N. S.
Wales provides a daily train; Queensland gives two
per week on the Inglewood-Texas branch.
Now Mr. Dash’s Transport Strangulation Board
has proclaimed the Inglewood-Texas road a traffic
route, with all consequent powers for the suppression
and seizure of motor transport. It seems clear that
the Inglewood denizens are not to be allowed any
longer to dodge Queensland rail-freights, and Texas
is wondering what will happen to its branch line.
Another excellent reason for complete Common-
wealth control of all forms of transport.
Another “Credit” System Crashes.
A dear old Californian doctor became smitten with
the idea that at 60 everybody should be paid a pension
of £4O a month, funds to be raised by levying a 2 p.c.
tax on every business transaction. The idea having
taken root in his mind, the dear old doctor joined
forces with a land agent, and they began writing
articles for newspapers, holding public meetings and
circulating petitions. Before long a “national move-
ment” was pushing the Townsend Plan, as it was
called, after the dear old doc.
Townsend clubs sprang up all over the country.
Six million people became members. A Mr.
McGroarty was returned to Congress as a Townsend-
planner. He was about to father a Townsend Plan
Bill when some of the political bosses stepped, in and
said the Townsend Plan had better be “investigated.
“Investigated” it was, and the first thing dis-
covered was that, in small contributions from people,
mostly poor and old, the Townsend-Plan bosses were
collecting nearly £200,000 a year. Local organisers
were in some places receiving £5OO a month from Old-
age Revolving Pensions, Ltd., the dear old doctor, his
brother and the Californian land-agent having full
control of the assets. Just before the inquiry began
the land-agent resigned, taking with him £lO,OOO as
his share in the O.A.R.P. press organ, the “Townsend
Weekly.” The dear old doctor and the Congressman
fell out, the doctor refused to answer any more of the
Congress committee’s questions, a warrant was issued
and the dear old plan seems to have fallen apart
altogether, .
An old-age pension scheme is on the way in the
U.S.A., but it is nothing like the Townsend Plan,
being in the main a contributory scheme. Old folks
who can’t or won’t contribute will get rather less
than old folks get in Australia and Maoriland. It
may not be much, but it is better than a promise of
£lO a week which you don’t get at all.
Melbourne’s Traffic Problem.
Melbourne’s new traffic code has come in lor a
certain amount of criticism, but if properly admin-
istered it should make the roads safer for both
motorists and pedestrians.
Besides tightening up existing regulations regard-
ing turning, passing and so on, the code introduces
a new rule to minimise the danger of accidents at
intersections. In the past a frequent cause ot acci-
dents has always been the car speeding along a mam
road and meeting another vehicle coming unexpectedly
out of a side street.
All streets will now be divided into two classes —
major and minor, a major street being one with a
tramline in it. „
In future a vehicle approaching an uncontrolled
intersection must stop before entering a major street
and slow down to 25 m.p.h. before entering a minor
street.
Criticism has been levelled at the definition of
major street, it being argued that many main suburban
roads have no tramlines yet carry much more traffic
than some of the streets down which trams run.
This is certainly correct—Point Nepean-road and
Orrong-road are two of many that could be cited—
but the tramline basis is a simple working rule, and
there is nothing to prevent other thoroughfares being
added to the major list if experience suggests that it
would be beneficial to do so.
The excuse of non-recognition of a major street
could be invalidated by the placing of warning notices
at all major-street intersections.
A provision that is delighting the hearts ot
puzzle-makers is that which lays down that at the
intersection of two major streets or of two minor
streets a driver must give the right-of-way to another
driver approaching from his right.
What will happen, for instance, when four cars
arrive simultaneously from four different directions at
the intersection of two major streets? All must stop,
and, assuming that all are equally observant of the
law equally polite and equally patient, they will
remain there for ever, each saying “After you” to
the man on his right.
Of course, it is barely possible that one driver
will have a little more commonsense than the others,
and in that case the difficulty will resolve itself; and
if commonsense is brought to bear on all other prob-
lems that arise in connection with the application of
the code, both by the public and by the enforcing
authorities, it should work to the advantage of all
concerned.
Morality and' Rainfall.
A Melbourne clergyman, discussing sin and prayer
at a Sydney convention, explained why the Melbourne
centenary celebrations were “a frost”:
It was the wettest month for 65 years On Show
Day it rained cats and dogs, and Cup Day was worse
The Lord answered our prayers and the purposes
of the devil were frustrated. We prayed, and we have
been praying ever since, and the religious revival has
come.
The argument is not very clear, but apparently the
idea is to give the devil pneumonia and keep him con-
fined to his bed. The fact that for the first five months
of this year Melbourne enjoyed wonderfully fine
weather is probably additional evidence of the
“revival.”
One wonders whether it is justifiable to assume,
as evil and deluges go hand in hand, that the places
where the devil is most active are those which get the
most rain, and the parts, where godliness is most
apparent are those where umbrellas and raincoats are
unnecessary luxuries.
If the assumption is permitted it provides a simple
means of assessing the godliness or otherwise of the
various parts of the Commonwealth.
Sydney, with an average yearly rainfall of 47.84
inches, is the most depraved capital city. Adelaide
with only 21.14 can claim that she is not only me
City of Culture, but of Purity also.
Taking the States separately, Queensland stands
out a 9 a shockingly sinful place.
Innisfail and Harvey Creek are probably the
deepest sinks of iniquity, their average rainfall being
somewhere around 160 inches. Of course, they aren
continuously and uniformly depraved. Harvey Creek,
for example, recorded 211 inches in 1894. Bv 190-
70 inches were sufficient to dampen the devil’s ardor,
and the graph since shows alternating periods ot
comparative godliness and discouraging backsliding.
Occasionally the devil’s minions have been so
busy that a sudden downpour has been necessary
to curb their activities, and at Crohamhurst on
February 2, 1893, nearly 36 inches were required
before the forces of virtue triumphed. The night
before must have been a memorable one.
Going to the other extreme, one finds that the Lake
Eyre district is the most virtuous part of Australia,
as its average yearly rainfall is less than five inches.
And what is most remarkable is that its claim is sub-
stantiated by solid facts. For years the district has
not known a murder or a bank robbery ; arson and
simony are never heard of there; nor have there been
any cases of kidnapping, piracy or treason.
Then there are parts of Australia where the
people are so virtuous that it doesn’t rain for years
and years, and life gets so dull that finally, in sheer
desperation, somebody lets the devil loose to break
the monotony and the drought.
It is a generally recognised fact, and one that
even the reverend gentleman would not dispute, that
rain has other uses than devil-damping. It is a good
creed that calls for moderation in all things, and per-
haps a levelling process, might be of advantage to
Australia. To have one part of the country flooded
and another part parched is as inequitable as to have
the inhabitants of the former part wholly bad and
those of the latter ineffably good.
The reverend gentleman points, unintentionally,
to a way out of the difficulty. All that need be done
is to transfer some of North Queensland s unregener-
ates to the drier parts of the continent and the desert
will blossom as the rose. For in a district where
some are good and some are bad the rain would doubt-
less revert to its former custom of falling on the just
and unjust alike.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Becks”: The renovation of
Richmond (Vic.) Town Hall at,
a cost of £30,000 has been com-
pleted for some months, all ex-
cept a gap where the founda-
tion-stone should be. The job
was started during the term of
office of one mayor and finished
during the reign of another (the
present one), and opposing fac-
tions in the council have failed
to agree as to which shall have
the honor of having his name
“perpetuated” on the stone. The
obvious course of giving them
both a trowel and putting both
their names on the block doesn’t
seem to appeal. Still, that may
have been at the back of the
Mayor’s reply the other night
when he told a councillor “A
foundation-stone will be pro-
vided before my term of office
expires. It will be to your en-
tire satisfaction, and to mine.”
The reply recalls the answer
with which Edward I. pacified
the Welsh when they asked him
for a prince. It sounded gener-
ous, but had a catch in it.
P rnell : Mareo, the musician, has
again been sentenced to death at Auck-
land for the murder of his Australian
actress--wife. The second trial lasted 14
days, and the defence called new wit-
nesses—showpeople from Australia —who
said they had known Mrs. Mareo, when
Thelma Trott, to take veronal, the drug
with which she was poisoned. Evidently
the jury was not impressed. Retiring to
dine as well as to consider its verdict, it
was back in court within two hours and
a half. This time there was no recom-
mendation to mercy.
* * * *
“Country Ped”: First aid (B. 3/6/’36)
is taught in schools. It is embodied
in the health curriculum of the Victorian
Government schools, and like many
teachers I have given such lessons for
many years. In every case I have in-
duced the school committee or the
mothers’ club to install a first-aid cabinet,
one of the very necessary things the
Education Department does not supply.
As proof of the value of these lessons,
quite recently on her way home a girl
swung her hand against a barbed-wire
fence and punctured an artery. She is
only a frail little thing, but she promptly
jambed her thumb on the spot and
calmly walked back to me. I improvised
a tourniquet and had her driven to the
doctor.
“Findy”: The Bulletin once pub-
lished a story of an angling club that
fished a stream in which there was only
one fish, members being required to put
him back every time he was caught. It
was recalled to me by the recent defence
of a Melbourne fisherman charged with
having taken undersized snapper. The
culprit pleaded that as fast as he threw
the little fish back into the water they
would seize his bait again. As the in-
spectors found 250 of the undersized fish
in his boat it seemed that they must
have been seizing his bait faster than he
could throw them back. Fined £2.
* * * :Jc
“Billy See”: Wills of all sorts have
been held good in Australian courts (B.
3/6/’36), but surely none has been
more tragic that that of Dave Watson,
an overlander of the ’eighties. Com-
panion to the Goodliffe brothers on the
first drive of horses to the Kimberleys,
the trip during which two members of
the party barely survived thirst by
killing a horse and drinking its blood,
Dave later got bushed and perished in
those northern deserts. Without pencil
or paper, he wrote his will with a piece
of charcoal on his leggings, bequeathing
everything to his sister. It was duly
honored.
=i= * * *
“Findy”: Tinned beer has arrived in
Melbourne, and its sponsors envisage
the day when it will oust the bottled
article from favor. The chief advan-
tages claimed for it are that it is more
“Is there a mother ’ere who Wouldn' leave ’cr ninety and nine to go after
the one that is lost ?”
quickly chilled (this interests the publi-
can, not the consumer) and that it re-
tains the draught flavor. Against these
I submit the following objections:
(1) It doesn’t fit so snugly into the hip
pocket.
(2) It can’t be opened on the side of the
bed.
(3) When filling your pal’s glass you
can’t see how much is left for yourself.
(4) Empties can’t be used as candle-
sticks, bludgeons or for club-swinging.
(5) Risk of having a tin of jam or
salmon palmed off in error.
(6) Danger of cutting your mouth on
the tin.
Of course, it may be urged in favor of
the tin that it can be dropped without
danger, but, after all, what true beer-
drinker ever drops a bottle?
❖ sjc
“Kwakprak”: Bill arrived in the sur-
gery with a startling-looking eruption all
over his chest, arms and face. It con-
formed with no classified skin disease,
and responded to none of the routine
treatments. He hadn’t eaten tinned crab
or any of the other medically-suspeet
delicacies in such cases. His medical
history was clear of anything capable
of explaining it. He hadn’t been near
fireweed or stinking Roger. But he’s a
bit of a gardener. “What about them gal-
lardyars, doc.?” he asked. “I was pullin’
some out day before it started.” We got
one of the stems, scratched a little patch
on a leg with a needle and rubbed in a
drop of the juice mixed with sterile
water. Next morning there was a patch
of the same eruption. Now the gaillar-
dias are ashes, Bill’s opinion of them is
unprintable, and the eruption is fading,
“Might have given it to the kids,” said
Bill, and was relieved to hear that he
couldn’t—such eruptions are purely per-
sonal affairs.
* * * *
“El V.”: The bagpipes date from
much further back than ancient Greece
(B. 17/6/’36). The Babylonians and
Assyrians cherished them, and their
vogue in India persists in the North-West
Provinces to this day. The Gurkhas
march to the Scottish pipes, but for music
to stir a Macdonald give me the out-
pourings of a Pathan. Usually he has
been taught by pipers from the Sea-
forths or Black Watch, and he rarely
knows any English except words of
command. But, as he. is always tall and
has the wind of a mountain goat, he
would be the envy of Skye when he
really sets out to pipe the haggis in or
the Afghan out.
* * * *
“Warroo”: Escapes of lepers from
their quarters (B. 3/6/’36) are not in-
1 requent. When I was a health officer in
Dai win in 1927 the leper station was
on an island. At dead low water it was
possible tor patients to wade to the
mainland. Making my regular trip one
day lound that seven natives had dis-
appealed. Blacktrackers were sooted
to the lunaways, but they reached
Pine Creek, 146 miles away, before
being lecaptuied. All but one, a lubra,
who was found dead near the 34-Mile
Siding. Her new-found freedom had been
too much for her.
“Schnorrer”: Hitlerism has intruded
into a N.S.W. probate case. Besides pro-
viding its aged ministers with a pension,
the Sydney Great Synagogue insures their
lives for the benefit of any dependants
they may possess. When the Rev. P.
Phillipstein died after 46 years in Syd-
ney, a question arose as to who would
benefit from the insurance, since the min-
ister left no will and neither widow nor
heirs. The Great Synagogue notified the
Probate Court of the difficulty, and an
order was made that a search for claim-
ants should be made in Germany, whence
Phillipstein originally came. But one of
the papers in which the necessary adver-
tisement was to be published is a Nazi
organ, and the ad. was rejected as
“non-Aryan.” The Sydney Court has
authorised its insertion in a Ger-
man paper which is less finicky.
* * *
“Pitt St.”: P’fipps will not forget the
coldest morning of the year. His spouse
heard suspicious noises at the back of the
house and roused him out to investigate.
P’fipps stole out of the side door, sneaked
round to the back and saw a hooded
figure bending low with a lighted torch
shielded under one arm. The house-
holder plunged at the mysterious
marauder. There was a wild flurry in the
darkness before a bony fist connected
with P’fipps’s chin. He came to in the
lighted kitchen, with an anxious wife
dabbing cold water on his face and
the milkman standing apologetically
by. “Gawd,” said the milk-oh, “when y’
come at me I thought y’ was after me
cash bag. I was just makin’ out a le-
ceipt for the money y’ missus left out
last night.”
* * * *
“Another Exdig”: If people will keep
live Mills bombs as war souvenirs let me
add to “Exdig’s” advice (B. 10/6/’36)
a word of warning that they be
kept in a cool place. At Rockhamp-
ton some years ago a Digger had one
on his mantelpiece. One afternoon it
exploded, wrecking the room. Luckily
there was no one in the house at the
time. The conclusion was that the heat
of the sun shining through the window
had caused the bomb to explode,
* * * *
“Alpha”: Recent mention of a method
of tying up a victim securely round a
pole without the use of rope is recalled
by the discovery of a curious happening
in Maoriland. Police were called out
from Wellington to Lower Hutt to assist
two keen wrestlers who had been prac-
tising Blomfield’s “octopus clamp.”
Working solely from written instructions,
the enthusiasts had managed to apply the
hold, but the directions did not contain
a solitary word on how to break it. The
family lent a hand, as the holdee was in
excruciating pain, but only the sinews of
the Force were equal to the task. Ten
minutes’ misery had reduced both men
to a state of collapse.
* * * *
“Erua”: Women aren’t alone in appre-
ciation of mirrors, especially at sea.
Some years ago the crew of a small
South Island (M.L.) coaster struck. They
had issued a demand for mirrors
in the stokehold, a request the
unsympathetic owners had
turned down. In the end it was
deemed the easiest way out to
provide the mirrors, and the
stokers doubtless experienced as
much satisfaction in gazing at
their sooty images as did Mrs.
Pintle (B. 17/6/’36) in observ-
ing herself in her kitchen look-
ing-glass.
* * *
“Loch Ness”: Newspapers
tell of a British bureau which
collects data regarding heredi-
tary peculiarities, and there is
mention of the record of a
Scottish family which for some
generations has produced two-
toed and two-fingered progeny.
If the bureau extends its opera-
tions to Maoriland it will find
there, in the remnants of a clan
that migrated from Scotland
about 80 years ago, a hereditary
tendency for all the boys and
some of the girls to make their
appearance in the world with
their ears doubled down. In the
case of the boys the straighten-
ing process is not easy, and oc-
casionally medical skill has to
assist in bringing the organ to a
normal position ; but the ladies,
who are mostly content to arrive
with merely one ear bent over,
soon grow out of the slight
peculiarity.
“S. Gumm”: The person who sug-
gested (B. 13/5/’36) that Melba would
have destroyed herself had she lived
long enough to see all the newspaper
“fat” going to a shop-assistant has been
justified in a measure by a paragraph in
a Sydney journal—Mr. Theodore’s:
Miss , young Sydney beauty, won
world fame when appointed, at the age of
18, as a mannequin in the establishment of
Jean Patou, Paris costumiere.
And I suppose it is “fame” in the queer
world in which flappers and flapper-
papers move and give their queer imita-
tions of English.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Daily journalism
often gains, or suffers, from unforeseen
coincidences, but Brisbane’s “Courier-
Mail” had really hard luck over its recent
special Nutrition issue. On the day
of its appearance, the fishermen an-
nounced their intention of refusing sup-
plies to the newly-reorganised Brisbane
fishmarket, and a commencing strike
among milk suppliers was featured. As
if this were not enough, the Tas-
manian apple trade announced that there
would be no more supplies of the delect-
able fruit which is popularly supposed
to keep the doctor from the*door. It
only needs a stop-work meeting among
hens and a hunger-strike of stock to
drive a despairing public to the gloomy
conclusion that it will never be able to
get any proper food after all these
columns of free medical advice.
THE BURNING QUESTION.
O’er all the world is talk of war
And warlike preparations;
And none can gauge the task before
The poor old League of Nations.
Is Europe racing to its doom?
Ah! let that problem tarry,
While the discussion we resume
Regarding if and when and whom
Our gracious King will marry.
How strange to think a potentate
So sociable and sporty
Should fail to find a fitting mate
Until he’s two-and-forty!
How few of ordinary men
Dan Cupid’s darts can parry
So, long! Which brings us back again
To guessing whether and whom and when
King Ned the Eighth will marry.
There’s something in a queenless throne
That jars on English notions.
Of royal hearts is his alone
Immune to soft emotions?
It would have maddened good Queen Vic.
And staggered bluff King Harry
To think a prince who had his pick
Of womankind wherewith to click
Should wait so long to marry.
To grips let Lang qnd Garden come
In riven ranks of Labor;
Let Mussolini bang the drum
And Hitler clank the sabre.
Let Japs and Chinkies bark and biff
And cut and thrust and parry;
face a problem just as stiff
Deciding when and whom (and if)
This King of ours must marry.
Though ills in stacks beset the earth,
From Arctic zones to tropic,
’Twould seem for all of British birth
There’s one transcendent topic.
In pub and club and drawing-room,
Pie-stall or cash-and-carry,
It sort of lightens up the gloom
To hear loud voices shrill or boom
Their views concerning when and whom
Our gracious King will marry.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C. 8.”: Everest has won the fifth
round, but that is no proof of defeat for
good fighting men. A mere slipping away
of a big ice face to a precipice 400 ft.
deep, with all the heart and lung draw-
backs incidental to humans at over
28,000 ft. above sea-level in its favor, is
no real victory. “The bigger they are
the harder they fall” was a sound maxim
in the days when I sought scientific
knowledge at the capable hands of the
late Mr. Laurence Foley, and even when
they are nearly 30,000 ft. high it is only
the last round that counts after all. Bar-
ring wars —they collect the real cham-
pions early. I’m inclined to give Everest
two more years at best before losing the
championship among unclimbed moun-
tains. That is, unless Mussolini offers
to wheel Haile Silassie up it in a barrow
for a wager of Ethiopia against the con-
tents of the boxes which Haile took
to London.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Another thing about
Hobart’s trams (B. 3/6/’36) which does
not cause visitors to smile, contemp-
tuously or otherwise, is the double fare
charged after 11.15 p.m. and the triple
fare after 11.30 p.m. The mainlander
can be readily distinguished by his ex-
pression of incredulous amazement when
called upon to pay Is. 6d. for his ride
from the G.P.O. to the Glenorchy ter-
minus.
* * *
“0.P.”: In the ten years of our
acquaintance I had never known my fish-
ing mate to wear collar, tie or boots. His
obvious state of freedom from cramping
feminine interference made me envious,
but my wife pitied him. The other
evening at a cinema theatre the strife
dug me in the ribs. Two seats away
Bill, a picture of sartorial neatness, was
paying marked attention to a blonde.
As he passed my seat I cocked an in-
quiring eyebrow. Speaking behind his
hand in a hoarse whisper that travelled
the length of the row, Bill enlightened
us. “It’s only the missus,” he explained.
“I gotter take her to the pictures every
birthday.”
± $ * *
“Kali”: That vegetable vendor who
never called, “only ’ollered” (B. 20/5/’36),
reminds me of the bottle-oh who
notifies his arrival in my suburban street
similarly. He, too, is an autocrat, sit-
ting in his cart and occasionally glancing
to left or right. If his “Hany hold hiron
to-day, hany boorl, hany hold does”
fails to bring clients to the front or
back gate he passes majestically on.
When I asked why he didn’t come in he
replied that it was “agin the law,” that
he was only allowed to “sing out.”
# * * *
“Mudurup”: Delving among old ship-
ping records at Fremantle, somebody has
discovered a link between Westralia and
that picturesque ruffian “Bully” Hayes.
The future buccaneer, it seems, spent
some six weeks in those parts in 1857,
when the tide of convict importation was
in full flow. But Hayes hadn’t taken to
lawless courses in those days ; he was
the skipper of a peaceful coastal trading
boat of 200 tons or so. What cargo he
took to the West isn’t quite clear, but
his back-loading to Adelaide was mostly
passengers, six in the cabin and 58 in
the steerage, which must have made a
tight fit for his small craft. Some of
those passengers, when they read of
Bully’s doings in later years (if they ever
did read about them), must have
counted themselves lucky to have been
delivered safely at their destination.
>]: * *
“J.G.”: The old Alfred Hall at Bal-
larat is getting a clean-up in preparation
for the annual South-street competitions,
the society’s own hall, the Coliseum, hav-
ing been burned down last year. The
Alfred Hall was once the largest building
“My husband is a determined fellow. If he says he'll do a thing he'll
DO it unless I tell him not to.”
in Victoria (it was erected before the
Exhibition Building in Melbourne). Built
of Australian timber, cut from trees that
had been growing in the adjacent Bulla-
rook forest a couple of months before, it
was put up in readiness for the visit of
the Duke of Edinburgh, and officially
opened by him —hence its name. The
framework is as sound as when erected.
The old building has seen an amazing
variety of functions, ranging from re-
ligious meetings to bruising matches.
“R.C.”: A reference (B. 6/ 5 / ’36) to
the “Bulletin Hotel” at Yerilea, 24 miles
from Kookynie (W.A.), impels me to
send you a photo of the old pub, with
the proprietor and the just-arrived mail-
coach from Edjudina in the foreground.
I don’t know whether it still supplies the
needs of thirsty diggers, but it was going
strong when I left there in 1914. Charlie
“If’sh a shame the Way y' shtarve
the poor beastsh!”
Webb’s successor was a genial old
bachelor Scot with an ardent love of the
bawbees. For many months a large
lump of (seemingly) buck quartz was
used to keep the “Bulletin” door open ;
when closing-time arrived—which seldom
happened until the last customer had
gone —it was pushed outside. One
morning the stone had vanished ; a
sharp-eyed prospector had noticed a
color in it. His clean-up was said to
have been four ounces. Bung bore up
manfully, but it was obviously a bitter
blow. '
“Chattis Pultan”: The neatest and most
workmanlike executioner I ever saw held
the rank of lieutenant-colonel in the
Indian Medical Service and the job of
civil surgeon at our station on the
Ganges. The fluency of his Hindi and
the civility of his surgery added the per-
fect touches to his hangings. On arrival
in the gaol courtyard he would find
Gunga Din seated cross-legged on the
drop, sniffing the morning cool and not
in the least inconvenienced by the addi-
tion of a loose noose around his neck.
Formalities were very brief: “Your
name? Father’s name? Caste? Sub-
caste? Village? District?” The replies cor-
responding to the particulars on the war-
rant, the next question was always “Have a
cigarette?” While Gunga Din was grate-
fully inhaling tobacco smoke it was the
easiest thing in the world to make cer-
tain that the knot in the rope was below
the left ear. In each of the hangings I
saw the subject dropped into eternity
with a broad grin on his face. It was
a decided improvement on Chinese
methods; in China I once saw an execu-
tioner take 14 strokes to behead 12
men. Perhaps failure of the relatives to
provide sufficient squeeze accounted for
the two odd strokes.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Recent uproar in the
Brisbane press regarding the “paper den-
tists” who may be admitted to the pro-
fession at the discretion of the Minister
for Health recalls the first Dental Bill.
It was introduced by the Honorable
“Joey” Bell, then not long returned from
Oxford, with all the best O.U.D.S. re-
finements in Parliamentary manners and
diction. During discussion an irreverent
Labor member, Hoolan by name, pro-
duced a sheep’s skull and a large assort-
ment of fearsome-looking pincers, with
which he proceeded to give a demonstra-
tion of “painless dentistry,” accompanied
by ribald discourse in admirable mimicry
of the Minister. “Joey’s” dignity was so
outraged that he withdrew the bill.
* * =l= *
“Fiona”: Here’s another superstition
that has died with the march of time.
In my youthful days there was an idea
that castor-oil was safe from oozing
through the glass only when bottled in
a shade of dark-blue. I can recall a
relative handing a whisky-bottle back to
the grocer. “Bring me the oil in a blue
bottle,” she said ; “it will leak through
white glass all over my medicine-chest.”
* * * *
“Quot”: “The majority of mankind
has never seen the sea and never will,”
says “S. M. Herald” in an article on
“Maritime Progress.” It seems a start-
ling statement; I wonder how it could
be substantiated. Some years ago the
International Statistical Institute of the
League of Nations issued a rough esti-
mate of the number of human beings on
earth, putting it at something under
2,000,000,000. These were divided by
continents as follows:
Asia, 950,000,000.
Europe, 550,000,000.
The two Americas, 230,000,000.
Africa, 150,000,000.
Australasia, 7,000,000.
Islands may be excluded from my calcu-
lation, as any islander who hasn’t seen
the sea must be a rarity. But if there
are 1,000,000,000 people who have
never set eyes on the ocean, where are
they? Europe could doubtfully furnish
150,000,000. The Americas’ quota would
mostly come from the southern conti-
nent, and 50,000,000 for both would
be a generous estimate. There may be
100,000,000 Africans who have never
seen the sea, but I doubt it. However,
even that leaves 700,000,000 for Asia to
furnish. And is it conceivable that
three out of four Asiatics have never
seen the sea?
* * * *
“Mako” : Touching that ancient statute
which precludes a man from following
his ordinary calling on the Sabbath (B.
17/6/’36), a market garden near Auck-
land was observed by jealous rival
gardeners to be
full of men dig-
ging one fine Sun-
day morning. As
labor was at a
premium just then
the theory was
that the helpers
had been obtained
for Sunday work
from other gar-
dens, and one
disgruntled com-
petitor rang for
the police. The
Law duly arrived,
notebook in hand,
only to discover
that the digging
was being done
by a self-consti-
tuted working-
bee, mostly pro-
fessional men and
relatives of the
owners, who had
I offered to give a
hand with the
spade-work on a
spare Sunday. As
a lawyer may dig but not plead on the
Sabbath, a plumber bake but not plumb,
a gardener paint but not garden, and as
nobody was following his usual vocation,
the Law retired without further remark.
$ sjc * *
“Kellick”: How about introducing a
nautical touch into this “queer vehicle-
theft” racket? H.M.A.S. Australia was
once robbed of her copper punt —a raft-
like contrivance from which men paint
the waterline. It was found next day
abandoned on the beach. The culprits?
Well, if there is any place where boys
will be boys it is Port Melbourne.
LASSETER’S REEF.
“Dr. Madigan, geological lecturer at Adelaide
University, condemned the ‘Lasseter reef’ story as
a myth, and expressed astonishment that people could
be found to venture money into searching for it.
Where is the gold at the rainbow’s tail?
Where is the treasure that pirates hid.
The men who followed on Sharkey’s trail
Or got their pointers from Captain Kidd.
Where was the valley that Sindbad found
Chock-full of diamonds beyond belie!
Where is the famed Tom Tiddler’s ground.
And where the dickens is Lasseter s reel .
Where was the kingdom of Prester John,
Or the mines whose riches Solomon spent,
Or the island vale of Avilion,
Or the lost Atlantic continent?
Where are the books that Euclid wrote,
Whereof there never is left a leaf
For youths to study or profs, to quote?
And where the blazes is Lasseter’s reef/
Whence did that sturdy seaman Noah
Forth in the Ark with his livestock fare.
Where is the dodo, and where the moa,
And the ALpyornis vastus —where?
Where did it grow, the Eden tree
That brought old Adam and Eve to griel !
Where is the poets’ Arcady?
And where the mischief is Lasseter s reel .
Let them scour the desert—that’s their affair—
Still, of all objections this seems the chief :
That you can’t find something which isn t
there.
Was there ever, tell me straight and square,
Except in fancy, a Lasseter's reef?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


V
2<W16
9
10/
or
J.854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
ill
■4. a
illi
H
I
8888888888
■
■
n
«
TIPPED CIGARETTE C
THIS GENERA TIC
POLITICAL POINTS
Great Dailies are quoting with unusual
asperity the P.M.’s admission that “Aus-
tralia, following Britain’s example, has
allowed its defences to become no
defences at all.” It is one of several
instances in which the “Follow Britain!”
policy has worked out badly. Where Aus-
tralia could follow Britain with advantage
would be in having one Parliament with
supreme powers, instead of seven Parlia-
ments with excessive taxing powers, ill-
defined and doubtful powers in other
fields, and in others again no powers at
all. But the “Follow Britain!” maxim
doesn’t go that far.
“Will Paris become another Moscow?”
Hitler asked the question on March 8,
and recent events have justified it. Aus-
tralians have no use for dictatorships,
but it must be admitted that Mussolini
and Hitler have proved themselves much
better furnished with information and
foresight than many democratic poli-
ticians.
A Canadian proposal to set up a Loan
Council has been defeated in the Senate.
It was part of the plan “to give the
provinces the right to impose direct
taxes,” and the “Conservatives” wouldn’t
have it. This country, which is plagued
with provincial taxes, and whose chief
provincial Government insists that it has
a right to tax income from other provinces
already taxed by those provinces and by
the national authority, would like the
loan of some of those “Conservatives.”
Restriction of the local-government
franchise, however desirable it may
seem, is a thing for quiet times ; but
Spooner, the blundering N.S.W. Minister
for Local Government (it doesn’t need
a Minister), is set on it. One queer result
was exhibited when Assistant-Minister
Ryan spoke and voted against Spooner’s
measure on an amendment (Mitchell,
K.C., moved it) that it be “read upon a
date six months hence.” The old Lith-
gow journalist manfully said the Govern-
ment had received no mandate for the
measure, and had no business to be dis-
franchising half a million people. There
were 23 Ms.L.C. for the amendment and
26 against, and another division saw the
Government’s majority reduced to one.
Murray, Trautwein and Gardiner,
Ms.L.C., saved the Stevens-Spooner Gov-
ernment from the humiliation of being
defeated on its Local Government
Amendment Bill. Murray was “Labor”
till a few years ago, and Trautwein till
the other week.
Already “battles of the routes,” as they
are called, are raging over the two rail-
ways the Sydney Government proposes to
build, regardless of its Commissioner’s
representations that they can never pay.
The superfluous line to Cronulla is to go
via Sutherland, and Cronulla protests that
trippers will have to travel an unneces-
sary 16 miles on a return journey, which
means that they will prefer a more acces-
sible watering place. It recalls bitterly
that “the old Cronulla-Sutherland steam
tram lost approximately £13,000 a year.”
When a casual vacancy occurs in the
Senate, the Government of the State con-
cerned makes a nomination if its Parlia-
ment is not sitting, and the nomination
is ratified or another appointment is
made by a vote of both Houses when
they meet. That is what the Constitu-
tion prescribes, but in Westralia the
business of choosing a successor to the
late Senator Carroll seems to have been
handed over to the executive of the
Primary Producers’ Association. That
concern has selected a candidate from
13 P.P.A. members who obligingly sent
in their names. The P.P.A. executive is
doubtless a very estimable body, but the
constitutional method is to be preferred,
even if it means electing a member of
the party which, though it has won the
last two State elections, has no repre-
sentative in the Senate.
An anti-hanging organisation has been
launched by N.S.W. Labor, and clerical
politicians are expected to join it in
droves. In a Trades Hall speech the Dean
of Newcastle gave this as his ardent
belief.
No deterrent would be so effective as
a declaration that life is such a sacred
thing that in no circumstances would
society be a party to extinguishing it.
Yet in Queensland, which has had the
“effective deterrent” for 20 years, two
men have recently been killed, and a con-
ductor and an old woman wounded
almost to death, by Messieurs les assas-
sins in Government trains.
Such Westralian group settlers as are
left have been informed that they now
owe their benevolent Government a
mere £1,268,110. Total expenditure on
group settlements since 1921 is reckoned
at £7,383,195; the difference has been
written off,” though it remains a charge
“IT was reserved for the foremost ‘sanctioned, Mr. Anthony Eden, to announce that his
Government was dropping 'sanctions.'"
“Believe it or not. Stinky, it hurts me more than it. hurts you, what?"
on tax-revenue, everything, including
interest due by the settlers, having been
borrowed. And the £7,383,195 is “ex-
clusive of the cost of roads, railways,
schools and other facilities.” Exclusive
also of the value of timber destroyed
in order that newchums might try to
grow cows on land more ‘suitable for
growing trees.
Stevens went to Yorkshire, and re-
turned to London with a tale that Aus-
tralians needn’t worry about the Japanese
withdrawal from woolbuying, since York-
shire can be relied upon to make up the
difference. If the 10 p.c. slump in prices
continues, it will mean that Yorkshire-
men will make themselves responsible
next year for about £5,000,000 in bidding
and increased buying—Yorkshiremen!
It is to be hoped that Stevens will repeat
his guileless narrative to Snowden. That
dour Yorkie has had little to laugh at
of late years.
Owners of motor vehicles taxed off the
roads —even Federal-aid roads—are ad-
vised to communicate with Canberra,
where they may learn something to their
advantage. Parkhill, the Minister of
Defence, has introduced “a system of
hiring mechanical vehicles from private
owners, which has proved satisfactory.”
So much so that
The purchase or manufacture of special
army vehicles will be undertaken only
where it is impossible to adapt commercial
types.
There is a bottomless purse for Minis-
terial trips and royal commissions, but
national defence is run on the cheap.
With the Presidential election due in
four months or so, over 3,000,000 of
Uncle Sam’s Great War Veterans have
been presented with £122 apiece in 3 p.c.
bonds and cheques—the bonds, although
nominally maturing in 1945, are cashable
at any post office. It is predicted that the
expenditure of £400,000,000 will give a
great fillip to business, and so it will for
a time. But the exhilarating effects will
soon wear off, as do those of all drunks,
and Uncle Sam will get another head-
ache. Quite two-fifths of the Great War
Veterans were never under fire.
The Sydney Government was asked to
appoint a select committee when charges
of corruption in the enforcement of
the law against s.p. betting were made
in the House. It appointed a royal com-
mission instead. Now it is appalled at
the cost, which exceeds £150 a day.
There have been upwards of 50 sittings,
and more than a million words have
been taken down in shorthand and typed.
And there are “still 20 complaints to be
investigated.”
F. W. Paterson seems destined to be-
come Australia’s first Communist mem-
ber. At the latest of several attempts the
lawyer who was a Rhodes scholar ran a
good third in the Bowen (Q.) Assembly
by-election, scoring about 600 more votes
than his general-election total of .1173.
E. J. Riordan (Labor) led the field of six
with 2606, John Smith (Country party)
being second with 2286. But Riordan got
900 or 1000 less -than half the total,
whereas the late Collins had an absolute
majority of 384.
Port Melbourne Council is objecting
to a Fisherman’s Bend airport on the
ground that the area should be reserved
for factory sites and workmen's homes.
The Government is building 24 homes
there as the commencement of a garden
suburb. The site is almost as ill-suited
for a garden suburb as it is well-fitted for
an airport.
Drakeford, M.H.R., whose party abol-
ished compulsory military training and
retrenched valuable members of the per-
manent forces, is worried over defence.
He has discovered that it would take
over a month to transport a division of
troops from Perth to Sydney by rail; he
therefore advocates unification of rail-
way gauges “as an unemployed-relief
work.’’ Drakeford is Federal president
of the Federated Union of Locomotive
Enginemen.
The world being full of mugs (and in
other tjian business matters some of the
most credulous are businessmen), parties
are still out looking for “Lasseter’s lost
reef.” An Alice Springs report that one
of them had a brush with natives, who
“were repulsed with rifle fire three times,”
has angered a body of Adelaide scientists
who take an interest in the abos., and
they suggest that the Commonwealth
Government should protect its wards
against these intrusions. And it should.
Canberra has found another unneces-
sary job for a former Labor politician.
Lionel Hill, ex-Premier of S.A., has been
made “chairman of the Industrial Board
for the F.C.T.” at “£350 for one year.”
There are already a Commonwealth
Arbitration Court and a Public Service
Arbitrator, who might fairly be asked to
do a little more for his handsome salary.
It is increasingly doubtful whether the
British Government really expected the
Government at Canberra to risk a wool-
market collapse and the total loss of
wheat and flour exports to Japan and its
dominions by way of giving the Old
Man some additional Australian trade.
Certainly reports fail to establish the im-
pression that the U.K. is in dire need.
Board of Trade export figures for 12
months, compared with the pre-Ottawa
year, show an increase of 44 p.c. to Aus-
tralia and only 29 p.c. to Maoriland.
British unemployed figures for May 25
show a reduction of 339,710 compared
with the total on May 25, 1935, and the
number of insured persons in employ-
ment last month was “the highest ever
recorded.”
Governor Landon, of Kansas, the Re-
publican candidate for the Presidency, is
a Pennsylvanian. American reference-
books tabulate their Presidents from the
States where they were born, not from
those where they have attained sufficient
political eminence to qualify them for the
biggest job of all. Of 32 Presidents
eight have been products of Virginia,
seven of Ohio, four of New York, two
apiece of Massachusetts, North Carolina,
Vermont and New Jersey. South Caro-
lina, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania,
Kentucky and Iowa have each supplied
a single President.
During the occupation of Belgium, the
Germans tried to effect a permanent
political separation between the Flem-
ings and the Walloons. Where the war
lords failed, the Nazis hope to succeed,
and they are exploiting to some purpose
Flemish hostility to the kingdom's being
tied to French financial, military and
political policy, especially the new alli-
ance with Moscow. If the movement suc-
ceeds, it may necessitate the revision or
withdrawal of the British guarantee of
Belgium’s neutrality. There has always
been a school of Englishmen who never
approved of this guarantee, holding that
it means dragging the Empire endlessly
into European wars.


KINDNESS WEEK.
“At the suggestion of the Governor, South Australia is closing its centenary celebrations with a Kindness Week.”


If you only make 8 starts a day ,
THE NOBBLER OF PETROL YOU SAVE
on each start with
mmm
SHELL
SAVES 6 GALLONS A MONTH
t®
S.7T-C
ITS ENERGY CONTENT
YOU MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
A severe chill, contracted on the voyage
from England, has put Sir Murray Ander-
son, Governor-designate of N. S. Wales,
in a Perth hospital—St. John of God’s.
He was to have reached his destination
to-morrow, but Sydney’s reception must
now await his recovery ; and the Perth
doctors—realising that he is 62 and that
it is wintertime—will not let him run
risks. Captain Robinson, the private sec-
retary, will arrive on schedule, but Lady
Murray Anderson and the A.D.C. remain
in Perth till the patient is fit to travel.
Vic. Police Commissioner Blarney, now
very much in the public eye over the
Brophy inquiry, had a brilliant war
record, rising to Chief of Staff, A.I.F.
Mentioned in dispatches so often that
the generals used to put his name down
from force of habit, he also picked up a
D. 5.0., a French Croix de Guerre, a
C.B. and C.M.G. before getting his
knighthood for services in his present job.
At the inquiry Blarney answered most
questions in a long cross-examination
concisely and dispassionately. The only
time he became communicative was in
giving evidence as to the reliability of a
wounded man’s statements. He should
certainly know something on that subject
—one of his jobs when with the A.I.F.
Intelligence Staff was to question the
wounded.
George Peacock, of Melbourne, has
been interested in stockings and the like,
purely on the business side, for many
years, and he likes a good story—it
needn’t touch on stockings and the like.
Now chairman of Prestige Hosiery, Pea-
cock was educated at Caulfield Gram-
mar, and later on worked with Robert-
son and Moffat before that old firm (he
was a director) was taken over by Myers.
In 1923 he joined Prestige, which then
had 80 people on its payroll. It is now
the largest mill of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere, with 1500 hands.
“And that reminds me” ...
Peacock is a Rotarian, and likes fishing
and shooting, but he forgets all about
these if he gets wrapped up in a problem
of engineering or mechanics. Periodically
he goes abroad to pick up any new ideas
of value.
Like his old Labor chief ex-Premier
Hogan, Harry Bailey has no regrets for
having joined the Vic. Country party.
Bourchier having been named Agent-
General, Bailey succeeds him as Chief
Secretary and Minister of Labor. Hyland
takes Bailey’s place as one of the four
Ministers without portfolios.
A Christian Brother for 60 years was
William Paulinus Egan, and thousands of
old C.B. boys throughout the Common-
wealth will regret the passing of their old
teacher in Adelaide. A native of Water-
ford (Ireland) and a picturesque person-
ality, he spent 53 of his 75 years in Aus-
tralian schools. He was an omnivorous
reader, and the Egan Shield, which he
presented for athletic competition among
S.A. colleges, will preserve the memory
of his interest in sport.
Dr. H. M. Moran, who was in Abys-
sinia with Badoglfo’s armies, went back
to Rome after the battle of Aschangi,
where he was a front-line observer, and
was named Commendatore of the Crown
of Italy by the King. ,Sydney friends of
the former international footballer only
wished he had been back in his native
city when one of the dailies asserted:
“Sanctions have been beaten by gas.”
The Macquarie-street surgeon writes
from Rome to the effect that “up to the
time I left Abyssinia no gas of any kind
was used by the Italian armies.”
Edward J. Mooney will reach his
sixtieth birthday in October, and a few
months later his Australasian Catholic
Assurance Co. will be 16 years old. Son
of a pioneer N.S.W. North Coast settler,
Mooney was born
at Kempsey, and
until 21 the land
held him. He
joined the Mutual
Life and Citizens’
in 1909, and has
been in life assur-
ance ever since. In
1921 he gave up his
job of chief super,
of the Metropoli-
tan Life to found
the A.C.A., whose
per formance to
date rivals the be-
ginnings of any
other life office in
the world. The co.
has built itself
large new premises
in King-street, Syd-
ney, and Queen-
A city pioneer and builder.
street, Melbourne. Outside of signing
policies and bonus certificates, buying
Ireeholds and looking at architects’ plans,
Mooney’s main interest is gardening.
E. J. Riordan, who has held the
Bowen Assembly seat for Queensland
Labor, is the youngest of the big Riordan
brothers, one of whom is an Industrial
Court Judge and another a Federal mem-
ber. Known as “Dick,” he was born at
Mareeba, was educated at Chillagoe and
Cairns and got his first job at Townsville
meatworks. A Bowen man for eight of
his thirty-four years, he has worked
mostly on the waterfront, and is secretary
of the Watersiders, a town councillor and
a member of the Harbor Board. His
parents travelled up the coast from
Mackay in a bullock wagon, and his dad
helped to supply timber for fences and
bridges on railway construction around
Bowen in the ’eighties.
Percy Owen, dead at 72, was a colonel
with three years’ S’African service, and
the son of a colonel. He became Com-
monwealth Director-General of Public
Works in 1924, and took over supervision
of the development of Canberra in 1921,
becoming Chief Engineer in 1924. Most
of the cardinal buildings went up in his
time. A pressman added a sod to the
one a C.P. Minister laid on the site of
Parliament House in 1923, saying “That’s
my contribution.” “Mine,” said Owen
afterwards, “would be a firing squad.
Don’t you know this is an historic occa-
sion, sir?”
“Womerah”: Can any reader recollect
a case to match this? :
Over 25 years ago seven boys sat in the
same class at the old Balmain (N.S.W.) public
schooh To-day all have a State-wide reputa-
tion. They were T. R. Jordan (now Chief Jus-
tice); Justice Maxwell; J. Hazelton (Deputy-
Prothonotary, Supreme Court); Reg Thornton
(solicitor and ex-Mayor of Balmain); A.
Parker, K.. 8. (late Lord Mayor); D. G. Bath-
gate, 8.A., LL.B.; and G. McGilvray, a well-
known sportsman and businessman and father
of Allan McGilvray, who captained N.S.W.’s
State cricket team last season.
Tf Westralian returned-soldiers had
their way, Colonel Olden would be sent
to join Colonel Collett in the Senate ; he
was among the 13 after the P.P.A.
nomination. The war summoned Olden
from a South Westralian dental sur-
gery in 1914. He served with the Tenth
Light Horse in Gallipoli, Egypt, Palestine
and Syria. He was the battalion poet,
and wrote its history in 1920 or there-
abouts, but found the public so sick of
the war that it wouldn’t buy war books,
though his was quite a good one. He was
one of the first into Damascus, and actu-
ally received the surrender of the city
from (as he put it) “a bird called Abd-el
Kader, a nephew of that emir who
fought against the French in Algeria.”
William Hall-Jones, whose long life
has ended at Wellington (M.L.), was a
member of Seddon’s first Cabinet. Born
at Folkestone 84 years ago, Hall-Jones
migrated to Timaru at the age of 25,
and did so well at
his trade of car-
penter that after a
few months he was
able to send for his
sweetheart and get
married. In 1890
he got into Parlia-
ment as Liberal
member for
Timaru; in 1896
(when W. P. Reeves
resigned) he joined
Seddon’s team as
Minister of Justice,
and a few days
later relinquished
this portfolio for
Public Works,
which he held till
Seddon died.
Then came a
short term as Pre-
mier, a stopgap till Ward could re-
turn from overseas, and in Ward’s Cabi-
net Hall-Jones again controlled Public
Works and also took Railways. In 1908
he resigned to become High Commis-
sioner in London, and in 1913 he re-
turned to M.L. and took a seat in the
Legislative Council. Able, conscientious
and tactful, he gave good service.
The manufacturers’ associations are
losing a good man in Roy Lee, their
Federal secretary, who is leaving to man-
age one of the Claude de Bernales com-
panies, with headquarters in Melbourne.
Lee and De Bernales were close friends
in Perth when Roy was running a news-
paper and Claude was hoping for a re-
vival that would help to sell his mining
machinery. Nowadays the tall, hand-
some Westralian is in everything, and
he’ll probably die a millionaire.
W. A. Gibson, g.m. of Goldsbrough,
Mort, who died in Melbourne last week,
was a Scot frae Kilmarnock. He left the
banking chamber for the wool floor in
1913 ; Goldsbroughs took him from the
Colonial Bank to manage their Mel-
bourne office. In 1916 he became g.m.,
and when Bawra was formed he was
appointed one of its Australian directors.
Few men in the wool industry were
better known, and his long previous ex-
perience in banking stood him in.great
stead in tackling the financial problems
of marketing. Like all true Scotsmen he
was a keen golfer.
Dr. Arnold Richardson, pictured here
by Coventry, is director of the Waite
Agricultural Research Institute and mem-
ber of the executive council of the
C.S.I.R. Adelaide-born, he was trained
at Roseworthy, and he went on to collect
a M.A. degree at the Adelaide Uni. and
a D.Sc. at Melbourne Uni. —the latter
was given for original research in the
One of Adelaide’s brilliant scientists.
water requirements of farm crops and in
wheat-breeding. An assistant at the Uni-
versity Training College, Adelaide, he
became assistant director, acting-director
and then superintendent of agriculture
in South Aus., holding the last post for
14 years. The Victorian Government
sent Dr. Richardson to America on an
agricultural survey in 1919, and the
Commonwealth Government requisi-
tioned his services as adviser to the Aus-
tralian delegation at the Ottawa Con-
ference.
A pioneer of S.A. was Lachlan
McTaggart, dead in Adelaide at 81.
His father drove sheep from Mt.
Gambier to Wooltana, and Lachlan was
droving at the age of 12. After he became
owner, he increased Wooltana to 1000
square miles and a shearing of anything
up to 30,000. He sold out at last to the
Mcßrides.
“Ida D.”: An interesting link with
Bishop Broughton is John Wright, of
Nimmitabel (N.S.W.), who will be 94 in
July. His mother came from England at
the same time as the bishop, who intro-
duced her to her future husband ; they
were the first couple to be mar-
ried in Australia. The Davis and
Wright families were among the pioneers
of the Federal Territory, owning Lan-
you, Gininderra and other stations when
they were first taken up. John Wright’s
eldest sister, the late Mrs. Phoebe Cum-
mins, of Quinburra, Delegate, was the
first white child born in Queanbeyan.
A good servant goes:
John Nalia Jonas, town clerk of Broken
Hill, is dead in an Adelaide hospital at 59.
For nearly 25 years Jonas had stood up to
every attempt by a succession of' councils,
chiefly Labor, to run the municipality into
debt; his only failure was when the Sydney
Government offered £15,000 for a swimming
.pool, and half-suggested, to Jonas’s immense
scorn, that the loan need not be repaid. Jonas’s
only defect was that he valued his efficiency
more than his personal appearance. He was
an enormous fellow, and this “defect” per-
haps prevented his becoming Town Clerk of
Sydney. So fully did he qualify himself by
examination that no accountant, inspector,
abattoirs-manager, chief gardener or road boss
could flourish a diploma or certificate that
Jonas could not himself produce. In muni-
cipal law his knowledge of statutes, ordinances
and decisions was unsurpassed; and he used
his knowledge with force and effect. The
present Mayor and aldermen, Labor to a man,
are united in their unstinted tributes to Jonas’s
work.


'n ; I
//
m
%
i _
-
•*Ui
Hliilil
sa
m
n
»
WIRELESS
MESSAGES
TO
SHIPS
AWA
COMMUNICATION
Your friends at sea are no further, for communica-
tion purposes, than your nearest telegraph office.
Whether your message be of a business or private
nature, birthday or wedding anniversary congratula-
tions, the wireless services are at your disposal.
Radio binds friendships.
New Guinea, Papua and Fiji have direct wireless
telegraph services with Australia at moderate rates.
Messages may be lodged at the A.W.A. Central Radio
Offices, at Sydney or Melbourne, or at any Postal
Telegraph Office in the Commonwealth.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD,
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


a*
Schweppe:
LIMEJUICL
*tALv* , j.;
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
MINING ENGINEERS,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
Send us your
inquiries for all
classes of
mining
machinery and
equipment.
Rockbreakers,
Stamp Batteries,
Screens, Tools,
etc.
Manufacturers of
the Patent “Cur-
vilinear” Concen-
trating Table and
Mcßichpals Gold-
saving Machines
for alluvial work.
“Kingsley” Radio
Receivers
“Kingsley” High Fidelity
Receivers for Alternating
Current Operation, Broad-
cast and Short-wave Band's.
High quality, low consump-
tion Dual-wave Battery
Receivers.
Write for full particulars.
KINGSLEY TELERADIO
CONSTRUCTIONS Pty. Ltd.
249-251 Spring St., Melbourne.
Cent. 8461.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
t Dividends ■, Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
March, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 p.c. = 80,780 54,680 139,16 S
1926.. 163,799 15,750 10 „ ~91,094 56,955 196,123
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ „ 93,044 70,571 266,694
1928.. 184,868 15,750 10 „ „ 93,048 76,070 342,764
1929.. 207.952 15,750 124 „ ~116,310 75,892 418,656
Staff fund, £2500 416,156
1930.. 187,254 15,750 12*p.c.=116,310 55,194 471,350
1931.. 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476,540
1932.. 92,137 15,750 74 „ „ 69,786 6,601 483,141
1933.. 122,439 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 22.946 500,087
1934.. 129,602 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 30,109 536,196
To supei'annuation fund, £5000.. 631,196
1935.. 175,522 15,75013 p.c.:=120,962 38,810 570,006
1930.. 205,493 15,750 15 „ ~139,572 50,171 620,177
The showing is the second-best on record,
and is equal to 20.4 p.c. on ord. capital,
allowing for pref. requirements, as against
17.1, 12.2, 11.4, 8.2, 6.5, 18.4 and 20.6 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was lifted from
13 p.c. to 15 p.c., including 5 p.c. from
subsidiaries (against 4 p.c. from this
source in the previous term). It is one
of Australia’s flourishing manufacturers.
The “poor relations” —Crown Crystal
Glass Co. and Australian Window Glass
Co.—are now not so poor ; and, with
practically a monopoly of the bottle-
making business in the Commonwealth,
the future profit-earning capacity looks
as assured as in the case of any other in-
dustrial organisation in the country.
That, however, doesn’t mean that the
co. has an inexhaustible stockingful of
benefits for shareholders. The present
price of 925. asked for the scrip takes
a lot of gilt off the investment for new
shareholders. The yield at that figure
is a shade over 3.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
There is Collins-street talk of “some-
thing extra” coming. What shape it is
likely to take if and when it does come
isn’t clear. A bonus share issue wouldn’t
be free of Federal income tax, as was the
case before Dec. 31, 1934. A distribu-
tion of scrip in the pups might make the
parent’s earnings look less embarrassingly
large, but questions of policy might over-
ride that possibility. Outside of those
avenues of passing extras along to share-
holders, there remain the chances of in-
creased divs. or cash bonuses.
Disclosed earnings would stand bigger
divs., and finances have been strength-
ened by solid writing-down of assets. De-
preciation written off each yeat isn’t dis-
closed—it is included with other exes.
(£365,377 last year, up £10,906), which
are shown in one amount opposite gross
profit (£570,871, up £40,877). But bal-
ance-sheet movements over a period of
years indicate what has been done in
this direction:
1924. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital . . £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
Liabilities .. .. 87,507 282,379* 362,746*
Land and buildings 206,067 205,804 206,760
Machinery & plant 451,364 286,801 306,252
Stocks . . . . 316,225 489,296 537,648
Book debts .. 127,901 183,295 219,246
Cash, investments,
etc 18,816 760,480 804,935
* Includes “provision for taxation.”
Plant, up £19,451 last year, stands in the
accounts at 61 p.c. of 1923 book values.
Stocks (up £48,352 last term) and book
debts (up £35,951) together are now well
over double the 1923 figures, indicating
in some degree the increased activity of
the organisation. Capital has grown very
little meanwhile, but cash, investments,
etc. (now £804,935), have been added to
by £777,653 in the 13 years, £245,947 of
the addition being in the last 24 months,
during which period the pups were pay-
ing divs. and repaying advances, and
weren’t likely to be asking the parent
for more capital.
A great deal of the £804,935 is in
liquid or semi-liquid form. The co. was
mortgagee to the extent of £lOO,OOO over
McAi thur s Trust Building, King-street
Sydney. It has put £25,000 into the new
Tasmanian Paper Co. With so much
cash at its disposal it is difficult to see
the co.’s reason for having £362,746 of
liabilities on its books—until it is noticed
that the item includes “provision for taxa-
tion,” apparently adequately provided
for.
Recent additions to plant by the co.
and its pups have been partly in respect
of milk bottle-making, plateglass-tough-
ening (for windscreens), moulded bottle-
cap- and glassbrick-making machinery.
Preserved meat is packed by the co. —it
makes airtight tin lids for the jars, besides
haying its own packing-case and fire-
brick factories. New lines are introduced
each year; the latest are glass house-
bricks and curved plate-glass windows.
There are over 4000 employees on a pay-
roll of about £700,000 p.a.
Visible net tangible backing amounts to
335. 4d. per ord. share. At 41s. the well-
protected prefs. yield 4.4 p.c.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends N
T 5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926 71,121 4325 10 p.c. = 50,423 16,373 226,127
1927 73,020 4325 10 ~ „ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 ~ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 ~ „ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39,172 4325 5$ „ „ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5£ ~ „ 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 —6„ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 65 „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ ~ 25,780 5,100 282,194
1936 31,295 8f ~ ~ 27,795 3,500 285,694
It is a strongly-situated concern as re-
gards both trade and finance. Paper,
printers’ requisites and fancy-goods are
the chief lines. When J. M. Dunlop, d’ye
ken (he may not speak that way, but his
ancestors did), says that “stock has been
valued at replacement cost or less, and
provision has been made for any decline
in market value,” shareholders may rest
assured that the extra half per cent, added
to the final div. was well and truly earned.
“The whole of the asset ‘sundry trade
debtors, advances and bills receivable’ is
adequately protected by securities and/or
reserves. The investments have been
taken in at cost, less reserve, which brings
them below market value.”
Having thus made sure that share-
holders’ funds were conservatively stated,
the board put the year’s net profit at
£31,295 (up £415). Three quarterly distri-
butions at rate of 8+ p.c. and a final of 9
p.c. made 8f p.c. for the year, and left
£3500 for reserves. Admitted earnings
were equal to 9.7 p.c. on capital, as
against 9.5 and 9 p.c. in the two preced-
ing years. ' Granted continuance of
present trading conditions, 10 p.c. to
shareholders looks a near probability.
The co. is experiencing increase in
turnover; to take care of it and provide
for future expansion an additional seven-
storey warehouse adjoining the Sydney
head office was put up last term. Growth
in the book value of fixed assets, how-
ever, was only £10,246:
1930. 1 933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £690,740 £483,384 £322,256 £322,256
Liabilities . . 106,094 53,180 84,204 77,923
Freeholds . . 110,319 110,319 110,319 120,565
Stocks.. .. 216.163 125,418 148,668 149,427
Sundry debtors 456,252 279,310 313,303 335,909
Cash and in-
vestments . . 308,471 298,802 123,212 87,223
In the books at £120,565, freeholds—they
include branches at Melbourne and Bris-
bane —are conservatively valued. Last
year’s outlay and the reduction of £6281
in creditors, etc., are reflected in a drop
of £35,989 in cash, investments, etc.
(£87,223), which also enabled the co. to
carry £12,606 more in book debts
(£335,909). The printing trade requires a
lot of carrying, but it is much better con-
trolled by paper merchants these days.
There has been an all-round revival in
publishing activities, and paper products
generally have an increasing market.
Though the co. carries adequate stocks,
their book value showed little upward
movement last term.
Between 1915, when the public became
interested, and 1928 capital was more
than doubled by par issues, raising it to
£690,740. Little of the extra money was
put into fixed assets. With slump came
contraction in trade, and in July, 1932,
£207,355 —the whole of the pref. and a
fifth of the ord. capital—"was returned to
shareholders, who received a further
£161,128 (6s. Bd. per share) in the fol-
lowing term, reducing paid capital to its
present figure. The scrip has been con-
solidated into pound shares.
At 435. 6d. the market buys well. Vis-
ible net tangibles amount to 375. 9d. per
£1 share, and that isn't the whole of the
story. On a 9 p.c. div. basis the yield is
4.1 p.c., rising to 4.6 p.c. if the div. lifts
to 10 p.c.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit, 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1926.. 66,070 12,598 6 p.c. = 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. .. .. 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,691
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 74 p.c.= 39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 0 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 . . .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152,726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ ~ 26,020 9,302 162,332
11936.. 56,686 13,152 5 ~ „ 26,020 17,514 179,840
E. G. Theodore’s mining activities in
Fiji have brought additional grist to
Morris, Hedstrom’s mill. The co. is
mainly interested in the Banana Isles,
which have had a big run of activity dur-
ing the past year, when a lot of Austra-
lian investors' money went down gold-
mines and what looked like goldmines.
Additional employment and spending in
Suva have been a direct result.
Copra was up and down during the
year ; it is still, with sugar, the staple
industry of Fiji. The co. also has con-
siderable investments in Tonga and
Samoa. Copra has averaged a much
better price the last couple of years (in
1935-36 it was up on 1934-35), though
there was a sharp dip in London quotes
just after this co.’s accounts closed. It
is up to £l2 a ton again now, about the
same as this time last year. In 1934 it
had been down to £7 ss.
Sugar fetched a slightly better price in
the world’s markets last term ; everything
was therefore set for better earnings on
the part of the co. Gross profits
(£149,606) jumped another £19,383. Of
the increase of £11,013 in exes. (£96,095),
£3116 was in respect of depreciation
(£20,922). Including £3174 dropped into
the insurance fund, net earnings (£56,686)
were up £8212, and equal to 8.3 p.c. on
ord. capital (after satisfying the prefs.),
as against 6.7, 4, 4.8, 2.7, 7.9 and 11.5
p.c. back to 1930. The div. was left at 5
p.c., and £17,514 was carried to reserves
(£179,846).
Merchandising and the co.’s own plan-
tations bring in the revenue. A new store
was put up on the Tavua goldfield last
term, and motor repair shops were estab-
lished at Suva and Lautoka. The out-
lay does not show up in the accounts,
which are kept in Fiji currency (£lOO
Fiji = £ll Australian):
1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. £739,613 £739,613 £739,61.3
Deposits • . . .. 12,420 1,965 5,101
Sundry creditors . . 18,228 17,697 17,077
Plantations .. .. 65,524 54,194 52,754
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 331,762 328,095 319,840
Stocks, etc. .. .. 212,276 227,231 248,567
Investments and cash. . 142,025 144,739 140,478
Capital value of
branches, etc. . . 65,706 63,359 57,233
Book debts, etc. . . 132,596 132,370 153,183
Last term £9255 more than was spent on
premises, etc., was written off, while plan-
tations showed a net reduction of £1440.
Stocks (£248,567, up £21,336) and book
debts (£153,183, up £20,813) show most
expansion. The outside debt, still a small
item, was £2516 higher at £22,178. That
ignores any liability which may be hidden
under the item “capital value of
branches, £57,233,” down £6126 during
the year.
Investments and cash, £140,478, repre-
sent £104,360 in subsidiary and other
cos. and mortgages, and £32,165 in cash.
Excluding the investments, but taking in
stocks and branch balances, the more
or less liquid surplus was £32,897 stronger
at £472,923. The co. is building up its
finances—it isn’t without competition.
The ords. are a market stock of con-
siderable interest —there are 520,407
issued, together with 219,206 6 p.c. cum.
prefs., the latter not very active. The
ords. have been firm above 255. for some
time ; at present they are around 265. on
Sydney ’Change. Including exchange, the
yield to buyers at that price is a little over
4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, and the
backing 265. lid. in net tangibles. Chair-
man Maynard Hedstrom likes the outlook
for the current term —good crops of
sugar and copra are assured —and there
are possibilities of a div. increase, pro-
vided copra prices and goldfields activity
are sustained.
Westralian T., E. and A.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 5623 15 p.c. = 4350 1273 59,061
Share premiums, £6254 .. .. 65,315
1927.. 6981 15 p.c. = 7026 65,270
1928.. 7422 15 „ „ 7439 65,253
1929.. 8383 15 „ „ 7439 944 66,197
Written off investments, £2500.. 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931.. 6816 10. p.c. = 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = 2976 1015 64,582
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,582
1934.. 4485 6 p.c. = 2976 1509 65,091
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 64,091
1935.. 4572 6 p.c. = 2976 1596 65,687
Written off investments, £l5OO .. 64,157
1936.. 5069 6 p.c. = 2976 2093 66,280
Written off investments, £lOOO . . 65,280
To Provident Fund, £l5OO .. 63,780
According to the accounts, shareholders’
funds, plus income from the trustee sec-
tion, are netting 4.4 p.c. Last year’s profit
was enough to pay 10.2 p.c. on capital,
as against 9.2, 9,8, 8, 13.7 and 17 p.c.
back to 1930, which was the co.’s best
year. Only 6 p.c. was handed out, as in
the preceding four years. Profits are
slightly higher and divs. are slightly lower
than the average Commonwealth trustee
co. experience.
During the first quarter of the present
century divs. and bonuses from Westra-
lian Trustees averaged around 15 p.c.
The bonuses were mostly capitalised,
£ll,OOO being thus added to the share-
register in the 15 years to Oct., 1925,
when gift issues ceased. To provide for
erection of new premises, etc., £19,593
of share and £24,458 of premium capi-
tal was gathered, lifting paid capital to
£49,593 (present figure) in pound shares
paid to Bs.
The 15 p.c. divs. cut out after 1930,
which was a year of record income and
profit. Since then £B5OO has been written
off investments (apparently the mortgage
holding, now £32,548 in the books), £l5OO
has been transferred to the provident
fund, while reserves (now £63,780) show
little change, standing at £14,187 in excess
of paid capital.
Trusts in the co.’s care continue to
expand:—
Gross Exes, of
April, Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1925.. £4,039,989 £25,548 £18,972 74.2 p.c.
1927.. 5,133,894 31,760 23,438 73.7 „
1929.. 6,044,888 37,059 26,936 72.6 „
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8 „
1931.. 6,861,482 36,845 30,029 81.4 „
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,607 87.7 „
1933.. 7,181,905 30,975 26,984 87.1 ~
1934.. 7,255,439 32,186 27,701 86.1 „
1935.. 7,337,162 32,986 28,414 86.1 ~
1936.. 7,490,145 35,633 30,564 85.7 ~
More profit should soon be coming from
this section of the business. Real prop-
erty and shares are growing more readily
(“Wild Cat’’ continued on page 18.)


INDIVIDUAL... DISTINCTIVE ... EXCLUSIVE
:x:j'-!-!-W-:-:-x:-::::-:-:-:: : x : :-- :: ' : - : ----
1
m
m
w»
¥K’:*iWSft2:wK«fiK«*
piiiipfc
■kß
«af«B4
M
1
»s§|
Whichever model you choose—there is nothing finer than a Stromberg-Cai Ison.
STROMBERG - CARLSON
It is conceded that everyone who already has a radio
hopes sooner or later to own a Stromberg-Carlson—
the Radio Receiver which has forever been perfect
in every detail. To-day, in a newly-built factory with
every modern manufacturing facility, a complete range
of sixteen Radio Receivers is produced to meet the
requirements of every listener—one model is priced
as low as 14 Guineas, placing a Stromberg-Carlson
within the reach of everyone.
This exclusive and distinctive instrument, Model 888 (above),
is a Dual-wave Battery-operated Receiver employing 8 valves
of the latest type and covers 5 short-wave channels (16-5 1
metres) and all Australian Stations.
The use of 8 valves in a highly-developed superheterodyne
circuit ensures a surge of power that enables this world-
spanning receiver to bring in the most difficult and distant
stations. Overseas Short-wave Stations are heard as clearly
as any local station and with ample volume.
Special features include —Wide Range Reproduction, Tone Compensa-
tion, World-wide Range, Full Automatic Volume Control, Visual
Column-light Tuning, Exclusive Stromberg-Carlson Selectorliie Dial,
Phonograph Pick-up Jacks, Special Three-way Battery Switch.
mmm
Os
The complete Stromberg-Carlson range comprises
9 models for All-electric Operation (3 of these will
operate on D.C. as well as A.C.) at prices ranging
from 14 Guineas, and 5 Battery-operated models
from 19 Guineas.
□
□
mmm
Backed by the resources of
Stromberg - Carlson,
Rochester, New York, leader
in the design and manufac-
ture of voice transmission
and voice reproduction appa-
ratus since 1894.
mmm
For further details see your near-
est Authorised Stromberg-Carlson
Dealer or write ‘to Stromberg-
Carlson (A/sia), Ltd., Bourke
Road, Alexandria, Sydney.
AUTHORISED DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH


IN
FIT
MLSO
B »
1 tJ
0 -o
THE PERFECT
ELECTRIC LAM
FOR GOOD LIGHT AT EVERY POlfcjf
TKJHY work in your own
" * shadow? If there were a
Mazda lamp over your kitchen
range you'd save yourself
endless bother and trouble.
THE
iIMITCn insurance
U II I I El U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 18fi2.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. O. D AAV SON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* 4= * *
AUSTRALASIAN timber lands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street., Sydney.— Advt,
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metal? and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD'., Sirius House,
Syd ney.— Advt.
=8 * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
realisable, and commission previously
locked up in frozen assets will be
forthcoming on a larger scale. Prospects
of a lift in the div. shortly are encourag-
ing.
There are few risks in a soundly man-
aged trustee co. when a stable Govern-
ment is in power. A Court’s ruling may
be got on involved testamentary provi-
sions ; though profits may shrink when
estates are slow to wind up, shareholders’
funds shouldn’t be assailed except
through misadventure in the actual in-
vestment of those funds.
It would be interesting to know to what
extent this co. considers further writing
down necessary.
The £113,373 shareholders’ equity, to-
gether with £4466 of creditors, sundry
small liabilities, etc., is represented by
£61,490 in freeholds, £10,495 in Com-
monwealth and municipal securities,
£32,548 mortgages, £8328 fittings, £5439
debtors and £4625 cash, etc.
Jantzen (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill and trade-marks .. .. If),000
Preliminary exes., £1634 .. .. 16,634
1929.. 1582 1277 Nil 305 10.329
1930.. 8139 2250 Nil 5889 10,440
1931.. 7867 2250 4 p.c. = 1350 4267 6,173
1932.. 223 2123 Nil 8,073
193.3.. 1911 1744 Nil 167 7.906
1934.. 2073 1744 Nil 329 7,577
1935.. 4446 1744 5 p.c. - 1687 1015 0,562
1936.. 5081 1744 6 „ „ 2025 1312 5,250
Eric Spooner, the N. S. Wales Assistant-
Treasurer, lets his imagination run to
such things as the proprieties of modern
forms of bathing dress —a very interest-
ing but nevertheless controversial matter.
Last season new State regulations were
introduced barring scanty costumes.
Profits of this co., which makes a pro-
duct known around the world, haven’t
suffered visibly.
An offshoot of the Jantzen Knitting
Mills (U.S.A.), it put up a factory at Lid-
combe, near Sydney, a bit over eight
years ago. The public provided £25,000 in
9 p.c. prefs. (reduced, pro tern., by the
statutory cut to 6.9 p.c.); the parent
took 15,000 fully-paid ords. for rights,
and put up cash for £25,000 (paid to
155.). The paid-up total is £58,750.
In the second and third years respec-
tively 17.4 p.c. and 16.6 p.c. were shown
on ord. capital after paying the prefs.
Then slump turned public attention to
cheaper goods, and reserves had to be
lapped to pay the pref. div. in 1932. But
plant by this time was working more
efficiently, the co. quickly adjusted itself
to altered circumstances, and with the
aid of new lines, particularly as regards
men’s knitted cardigans and underwear
(which helped to carry overhead costs
during the slack period), profits have
shown a steadily upward movement
since.
Public taste is reverting to quality pro-
ducts, and, with the increase and spread
of spending power, public taste is more
often being satisfied. Last term Jantzen’s
gross earnings (£31,448) sprang £5057 ;
exes. (£26,367) absorbed an extra £4422 :
thus net profit (£5081) reflected improved
trading conditions to the extent of £635.
Enough was disclosed to pay the mini-
mum pref. div. and show 9.9 p.c. on ord.
capital; 6 p.c. (up 1 p.c.) was handed
out. The prefs. participate up to their
contract rate in any distribution over
6.9 p.c.
Finances are very snug:
1930. 1935. 1936.
I'aid capital .. . . £58,750 £58,750 £58,750
Sundry creditors . . . . 7,061 3,004 5,965
Freehold 16,253 16,192 15,679
Hunt 9,122 6,887 6,922
Stocks 13,257 3,588 4,767
Book debts . . . . . . 1,157 7,855 8,053
< '.ish, etc. .. .. .. 15,592 22,357 20,068
Machinery for making new styles and
fabrics was bought during the year, and
more has arrived since balancing date.
The extra cost to Mar. 31 had been offset,
all but £35, by depreciation allowances.
Stocks (£8053) were up £l9B, but are a
low figure. The holding of cash (£15,634)
and Consols and other investments
(£10,296) covers the outside debt (£5965)
more than four times, improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£32,785)
was £1989.
At 245. the prefs. yield 5.7 p.c. on a
6.9 p.c. div. basis. The market has
weakened in sympathy with the trend of
interest rates; but to those who like
preference shares the outlook for this
scrip is attractive.
A Director of Hodsons Arrested
Guy Paul McDonald, described as
a director of Hodsons Investments, Ltd.,
was arrested in Sydney on Monday and
charged with having, between April 1 and
June 16, 1936, stolen a number of share
certificates in Amalgamated Cash Orders,
Ltd., to the value of £4OOO.
On the question of bail (it' was refused)
the police alleged that other people
were associated with the defendant in
Hodsons, and that after it was floated
salesmen were engaged and instructed
to canvass shareholders in Pacific Forests,
Ltd., selling shares in that co. at 505.,
which, it was represented, would be
bought back in 90 days at 80s. A detec-
tive stated that about £25,000 had been
collected.
it was known, said the detective in
court, that a large amount of money
had passed through the co.’s banking
account. It was known, too, that the
accounts were now just about depleted,
large sums in cash having been drawn
out of the bank ; and there was, accord-
ing to the police, no record in the co.’s
books of what became of the money.
None of the Pacific Forests shares had
been bought back.
Pacific Forests, Ltd., the police said,
was a genuine co., and no party to the
repurchase scheme.
Lady Shenton’s monthly clean-ups con-
tinue disappointing. The reason given for
the May return not being up to the mark
is that the “rich shoot” couldn’t be
drawn on owing to timbering. Share-
holders, who so far have shown re-
straint and docility, are beseeching the
board to tell them how long it will be
before some of the “30dwt. ore —positive
and at grass” —is treated.
* * * *
From a man who ought to know a
mine from a hole surrounded by dirt :
The deepest level in Norseman Gold Mines
(W.A.) —670 ft. (470 ft. vertical) on the underlie —
has been opened up for a length of 800 ft. At
a point 600 ft. south of the shaft the reef was
replaced by worthless rock, which made pros-
pects of further values being disclosed in
that direction appear gloomy. Persistent driving
further south, however, resulted in the location
of a leader which has since widened from
inches to 4ft. The gold content of this new
body equals that of the ore now being milled
by the company (9dwt.). This development
puts a new aspect on prospects. South, of the
shaft at the 670 ft. level a winze has been sunk
140 ft. in ore, and from the bottom of this
winze north and south drives are being ex-
tended in ore averaging, according to official
reports, 9dwt. Developments in the winze
and in the drives mentioned have prompted the
management to continue sinking the main shaft
from 670 ft. to 800 ft. on the underlie. The
output of the mine is to be increased. A pipe-
line is being laid by the Government from
Coolgardie to Norseman to supply the mines
there with water, and the co. has agreed to
contribute £lO,OOO towards the scheme, which
is estimated to cost a quarter of a million. Co.
claims to have sufficient cash in the bank to
pay its contribution to the pipe-line, to deepen
the shaft, and for the additional plant. Ore
reserves between the 570 ft. and 670 ft. levels,
plus prospective reserves as indicated by de-
velopments in winze and drives below. 670 ft.,
and the new ore-body in the south end of that
level, are roughly estimated at about 150,000
tons, though this may be only guesswork.
Costs, including administration, now average
355. 3d. a ton.
* * * *
Lower-grade ore, but a larger tonnage,
was treated, by Boulder Perseverance
last month in its new plant. Full blast
is expected by July. Meanwhile extrac-
tion is satisfactory, but costs are above
the estimate—lBs. a ton is spoken of.
Locally-controlled Golden Valley
(W.A.) is having a show (locality not dis-
closed) sampled, and should prospects be
satisfactory an option will be taken. In
the meantime the co. is keeping intact its
five-figure credit balance.
*** * *
Having scrutinised several properties at
Yellowdine (W.A.) since formation in
January last year—its chief consideration
at the moment is a one-fourth interest
in Western Mining Corp.’s Cox’s Find
(Erlistoun) —Central Yellowdine Gold is
reconstructing. Treatment has com-
menced on 7000 tons, averaging 34dwt.,
blocked out on the Find, and it is in
order to meet its share of the expendi-
ture here that Central Yellowdine is
winding up, transforming itself into a
new co.. Central Gold Mines, N.L. Nomi-
nal capital is to be £120,000 in 800,000
3s. shares; Yellowdine holders will be
entitled to f.-p. shares, one for one, in
the new co. on payment of 6d. a share.
* * * *
London-controlled Edjudina Consoli-
dated, operating at Edjudina (W.A.), has
extended its share options (only a few are
held in Australia) from June 30 to Nov.
30. Ihe options entitle shareholders to
secure one 2s. share at Is. a share pre-
mium in respect of every two shares
allotted, and were originally exercisable
between Jan. 1 and June 30 of this year.
Co.’s capital consists of 5,000,000 2s.
shares, of which 3,450,000 are issued and
fully paid.
* * * *
Lake View Investment Trust, formed in
1920 to acquire the assets of Lake View
and Oroya, Ltd., has just issued another
annual statement of accounts. Profit
totals £52,330 (compared with £49,045),
dividend amounts to 7| p.c. (against
p.c.), and the carry-forward at £34,878 is
almost unchanged. A valuation of invest-
ments exceeds the amount at which they
stand in the balance sheet (£2,097,512).
Co. has money in 498 concerns—mostly
mining, financial, railway and industrial
—in Britain, Europe, Asia, Africa, U.S.A.
and S. America.
* * * *
Ora Banda United, a London co. with
odds and ends at Ora Banda (W.A.), has
sent its chairman, O. J. Parker, to the
West to see how things are getting on.
Co. claims to have “three distinct ore
zones” on its holding, and talks of treat-
ing big tonnages by-and-bye. A report by
Parker is expected shortly.
* * * *
From some time in April to the end of
May the new Celebration (W.A.) treated
4000 tons and got 3650 z. of fine gold. A
further 4Sloz. is said to be locked up in
the plant, but until it is extracted it can’t
be reckoned as part of the return. Co.
hopes to do better by improvements in
milling. It will need to. The flotation of
the old Celebration in 1920 started the
Hampton Plains boom. With gold at 85s.
an ounce it was tipped to do well, but
didn’t, and shut down a few years later.
Shareholders got nothing.
* * * *
Wiluna Ajax reports that arrangements
are being made to have a survey of the
lodes on the southern boundary before
starting on the No. 3 bore. Co. is also
considering a option” over
another mining show in W.A. The
mine is producing good-grade ore, and
possesses a small battery. Manager G.
F. Thornton will report on the mine.
* * -t. *
Mount Magnet Gold Mines, formed
in May, 1933, to acquire the Hill 60
mine at Mt. Magnet (W.A.)—an adjacent
170 acres have been subsequently ob-
tained —is treating 4900 tons monthly for
a gross return of £BBOO. Costs are low,
and mine working profit averages £4500.
There are ore reserves of 160,000 tons,
going measured up.
* * * *
Deborah (Bendigo) continues to extract
rich stone from its 915 ft. level. Last
week’s 127-ton crushing yielded 104 oz.
gold, an average of 16dwt. Though the
grade was 6dwt. lower than for the pre-
vious week, fluctuations in gold yield
can be expected when ore-getting and
development go hand-in-hand. A 10-
head battery and mill to treat 250-300
tons weekly are to be installed —a suction-
gas engine and a new air-compressing
unit are already on the spot. With the
battery in operation a 3dwt. recovery is
expected to offset all expenses. For the
six months to Jan. 31 a loss of £4lBO
showed up; cash in hand at June 30
totalled approx. £5BOO.
* * * *
Because T. R. Victor and D. Fletcher,
consulting engineers to Aus. Gold De-
velopment and Cocks Eldorado, were of
the opinion that getting water for dredg-
ing purposes would be too costly a busi-
ness, A.G.D. and Gold and Tin Develop-
ment have forsaken their option over
New Pyrenees Alluvials’ property at
Avoca (Vic.). According to New
Pyrenees, the report is at variance with
the finding of other alluvial engineers
who have investigated. The director of
the geological survey held that the Avoca
Valley, near the foot of the leases and
one of the wettest alluvial systems in the
State, could maintain an unlimited supply
of water at low pumping cost.
* * * *
C. N. J. Clayton, who came out from
London last August on a three years’
contract as chief mining engineer to the
Bernales group, has left it as from
May 31. Clayton in 1926 acted as the
mining representative of the technical
committee appointed by the Common-
wealth Development and Migration Com-
mission to report on the goldmines of
Westralia.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(1) 1, now resident in the British Solomons,
have £lO,OOO on fixed deposit at 2\ p.c. interest
in a Sydney hank, and have to pay the usual
absentee Stale and Federal taxes. To transmit
this money to England would cost £2500 or
more. As no early reduction in the exchange
is probable, would it be sound to transfer
to a Jersey bank at p.c. interest and
lose exchange ? I am told that taxation in
Jersey is very low, and so is cost of living.
I expect to settle in Jersey in 1940 and want
my money out of Australia at the earliest
moment. (2) Know of a better way of dealing
with this matter ?
(1) Gross income p.a. would drop from
£250 (Aust.) to about £lB7 (stg.). Satisfy
yourself that the higher income, less the heavy
Australian taxation, would buy no more than
the smaller Jersey income, less light taxation.
If you are determined to live in Jersey you
would be better off to shift your money to
there, as you would lose by the exchange on
the transfer of your income from Australia
just the same. (2) If you were content to stay
in the Solomons you might do better by placing
your money in a bank in the Federated Malay
States, where taxation is light. The P. and O.
Banking Corp., Singapore, might advise. If
you were prepared to change from fixed
deposits and put your money into sound Aus-
tralian ordinary shares, such as Broken Hill
Prop., Gordon and Gotch, Fairymead Sugar
and one or two others, you should receive a
better income, after paying taxes, and possible
market appreciation later might show a profit
sufficient to offset exchange if a transfer to
Jersey was decided on. There is an element of
gambling, however. You could escape State
taxes (and some Federal tax) by investing in
Commonwealth bonds, especially if you settled
in Canberra. And Dr. Tillyard will tell you
that Canberra is a better place than Jersey.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.R.McK.: That salesman’s story is full of
exaggerations. Dividends still appear to be
years off, and the co. has a large number of
shares which it is finding difficult to sell at
par. Your present holding is enough....
1.W.H.: Balance-sheet figures of Davies, Coop
and Co. appear in the Melbourne Stock Ex-
change Record for Dec., 1935—y0u should be
able to get a copy from your broker. Co.
makes shirts, etc., and spins cotton goods, such
as denims. This section of the business made
a loss to June 30, 1935. Much will depend on
how it is shaping now. Plant and stocks total
more than paid capital. It is a speculative in-
dustrial which, if well handled and given
reasonable tariff protection, may fare better
later on. Unless last year’s figures are im-
proved upon (they should be) the ord. div.
(interim 5 p.c.) is not secure A.J.S.: (1)
Yes. (2) Only prefs. are obtainable. The
yield is 5 p.c., but there is little or no chance
of capital appreciation. Gordon and Gotch
ords. at 495. are worth looking at.... Kerang:
Debentures in the P.P. Bank should be repaid
in full. If Southern British National Trust is
present holder, write the Public Trustee of N. S.
Wales... .H.A.C.: Co. at present is trying to
raise pref. capital. You might sell your ords.
through the co. itself. No regular market.
Profits are being shown... .J.H.M.: Cranwells’
shares are quoted on the unofficial list of
Sydney ’Change at 345. buyer, 40s. seller. They
should be worth that if the P.P. assets realise
what is expected.


a
m
%
\ 1 /
NT-
' I \
-,v
fUU
STRINGIH
MtOIUW
SlttWT*
£pjbcia*~
M\LD
£%
S2te
Her,
QLf>s
m
m
m
Wft
%
<%
«4s
Sto
m
iViViV < OU^tV^V<XViB
V*>.'»A.V>,
mm
of the Clock
it's
TIME FOR A
APSTAN
because Capstans
are made of a dis-
tinctive blend, from
specially reserved
tobaccos Capstan's
own.
10-6 d. : 20-V-
Also Flat 50's, Flat lOO's & Round Airtight 50's


ABORIGINALITIES
“Y. Rarapa”: “Yes,” I murmured sym-
pathetically, “things are tough, all right.”
“You’ve said it,” replied Charlie bitterly.
“There’s not much of a man’s cheque left
after the woolbrokers, the bankers and
the mortgagees have had their cut.” A
gloomy silence followed this remark.
“That’s a nice young dog you’ve got,” I
said by way of changing the subject.
“It is,” said Charlie sadly—“and it’s the
only darned thing left that hasn’t got a
stamp duty on it.”
sfc * *
“Cady”: Reference to the wearing of
the sombrero by Australian bushmen
moves me to ask
whether anyone
.has seen an out-
back Australian
using an Ameri-
can saddle with
horn, rope,
wooden stirrups,
cinch girths and
the rest of the
paraphernalia.
These are exten-
sively advertised
by Me 1 b ourne
and Sydney firms,
and appear in
shop windows with “chaps,” windmill
spurs and everything except the rifle scab-
bard so beloved of the Wild West film
hero. It may be there are men using
these outfits on Queensland cattle runs.
If so, they are made of sterner stuff than
their fathers.
“Iver”: Crow sense? For months I
had my lunch in the shade of a tree.
Two crows became daily visitors, col-
lecting the crusts, hiding them beneath
pieces of bark and calmly returning to
a safe distance to await more. Then one
day the first crow collected the crusts
while the second perched on a post and
watched the proceedings. Suddenly the
second bird went to each cache and re-
moved the spoils to another den. When
“eat-up time” arrived the hard-working
first bird found that his cupboard was
bare. The way he examined those empty
tucker-bins was laughable. Apparently
he strongly suspected his brother of foul
play, for dissolution of partnership fol-
lowed.
❖ * * *
“Marlinspike”: A Townsville (N.Q.)
lad has got into the angling columns by
landing a 2121 b. groper with a light
rod and line after a two-hour struggle.
As a matter of fact, rod and reel give an
angler immense advantage over heavy or
powerful fish as compared with a hand-
line. The rods acts as a tension spring,
to keep up a steady constant strain; the
reel takes care of the inboard portion
of the line during runs and recoveries.
Had he been using a heavy handline
and brute strength, the odds are that the
fish would have been lost'. Most losses
occur through a coil of the recovered
line getting fast round something when
the captive makes a sudden rush, or
from some similar too sudden and heavy
checking. Zane Grey could never have
taken any of his big fish on handlines,
however strong they were.
* * * *
“Bill Bluegum”: Something new in
preventive medicine is being tried on
an important section of the community.
Pneumonia has been a scourge among the
native bears at Koala Park, near Sydney,
this being due to the young bear’s habit
of leaving the pouch for his mamma’s
back about midwinter. A serum has
been prepared which, it is hoped, will
immunise the youngsters. It is adminis-
tered to expectant bear mothers for some
time before the youngster is born, and
when that happens the infant is expected
to be resistant to pneumonia. It is up
to Australia, which has gaily converted
millions of bears into fur rugs in the
past until there are hardly enough left
for a tippet, to make even this tardy
attempt at reparation.
* ❖ 4* :J:
“L.W.”: No need to go to New Guinea
to find nippered fresh-water prawns (B.
6/5/’36). North Queensland creeks are
alive with them, and to the blacks in
these parts they are a highly-prized deli-
cacy. Stripping the leaves from the leaf-
stalk of the lawyer-vine, they use it as
a spear, chewing the pointed end slightly
to fray out some fibres and so attract
the attention of the inquisitive prawn.
Then the fisher lies on his stomach on
‘Get up, y' lazy cow, an' let a man do ’is sweepin' !”
a rock with his improvised spear held
loosely in one hand while the frayed
point moves slowly and aimlessly about
in the water. Soon a prawn comes to
investigate, takes the point in his nippers
and begins to move up it for a taste of
the new thing. Just as he gets his mouth
near it, the hunter gives the other end a
sharp tap, causing the point to enter the
prawn’s mouth and transfix his body.
H* H*
“R.8.C.”: The strangest caterpillar
that I have yet seen is the inch-long,
greenish-brown fellow that attacks the
leaves of bushnut-trees. He builds him-
self a tunnel to work in by uniting the
residue of what he eats with a silken
web. It is strong, too ; I tried to sepa-
rate two leaves thus joined, but they tore
first. When I did this all the raiders in
the tree (and they had been making a
noise like a miniature sawmill) downed
tools and retreated into their tunnels.
They are thorough in their destruction,
and, like the termites, start from the top
of the tree and work down.
t ❖ 4* H*
“Dominic”: Although the pelican ap-
pears a lumbering bird in flight, it is
really much faster than the seemingly
darting gull. And, taking advantage of
this, the gentleman with the outsize in
bills is as gross a racketeer as any Ameri-
can gangster. With W.A. river estuaries
returning to salt after the floods of
winter, myriads of small fish appear—and
with them a multitude of all sorts of
gulls. Down plunges the gull and makes
a capture, rising, as is its habit, to
swallow its prey on the wing. But the
pelicans are also watching, and instantly
one to half a dozen are up. A few flaps
of seemingly cumbersome wings, and the
gull, screaming protest against such rob-
bery, drops its fish, which is snapped up
by the big bill before it has fallen many
feet. So the game goes on, the gulls
hopefully toiling and the pelicans as per-
sistently racketeering.
* :? * *
“King Billy”: An interesting precedent
was raised by a N.S.W. aboriginal when
asked what he would have for breakfast
—he was in the lockup on a charge of
drunkenness. He demanded goanna, and
would take nothing else, though the
gaoler was clean out of them. When he
came before the beak he spoke of the
callous attitude of the turnkey, and was
dismissed to catch a breakfast for him-
self. The convention that a condemned
man is allowed to choose his own break-
fast on the morning of his execution
seems to come into the question here.
Would it be legal to scrag him if he de-
manded red caviare and none of that
rare and expensive delicacy was avail-
able?
* * * *
“Woorak”: I’ve noticed that a live
rabbit never seems to get burrs or other
plant-pest seeds in its fur. When one is
shot and fallen among grass, scrub, etc.,
eeds will at once adhere to it. Any
Aboliar explain ?
“Johnhop”: “Mat’s Mate” (B.
20/5/’36) goes astray when he scoffs at
the outbacker’s deep-rooted conviction
that hydatids occur in every rabbit.
These cysts, the bladder-worm stage of
the short tapeworms found in most dogs,
have been present in every rabbit I’ve
seen opened. Whitish sacs about the
size of a pea, they usually frequent the
liver and lungs, although they may occur
elsewhere.
“Housie”: Rabbits may not be afraid
of paper, but they certainly fear coal-tar.
A large wad of paper liberally smeared
with tar and placed inside all burrows
but one (against which is set a wire-
netting catch-all trap) does the trick.
Bunny will almost invariably prefer
facing the trap to the tar. I have known
adult rabbits remain for as long as 11
days in the burrow before emerging,
emaciated but still lively, into the catch-
all trap.
* H* * *
“Nagheer”: From an experience of
more than 45 years in far-northern fish-
ing, I can assure “Del Norte” (B.
3/6/’36) that The Bulletin was right in
saying that Barrier Reef waters contain
bigger sharks than any that Zane Grey
encountered in N.S.W. I have seen
white sharks up to 35 feet—they come to
breed in the sheltered inner channels —and
hammerheads of more than 20 feet. Of
“D.N.’s” alleged game species, I have
landed threshers up to 10 feet, and lost
bigger ones. Big blue-pointers are to be
met in the deep-water channels through
the outer Barrier wall—l have caught,
and lost, plenty. They ate identical with
the Maoriland mako. The fiddleback is
not a shark, but a ray. In speaking of
the Barrier Reef, I mean the northern
Barrier Reef—not the far-inshore
southern channels of the tourist blurb.
At Hayman Island, Mr. Grey is 500 miles
south and 100 miles inshore from the
genuine article, but he still may encounter
a full-size white shark.
ijc :*« % *
“Neddy”: “Ida D.” exactly describes
a horse’s method of getting up and lying
down (B. 22/4/’36), but take it a little
farther. Get a horse down alongside a
brick wall or a straight fence, close up,
and it will never rise again without assist-
ance. That scramble off its rump up-
wards prevents it, the rump striking the
wall and knocking it down again. That’s
why the sand bath usually attached to
police stables and racecourses always has
a fence which slopes acutely outwards.
“Ora B.”: J. I. Hardie was right in
saying “Denny’s horse went down on his
knees.” Any horse that ever was foaled
goes down on its knees in the act of
lying down. I have seen exceptions—one
was the famous old-time circus pony
Commodore, who used to slip down,
wrong end first. My pony will go down
on her knees at the word of command,
and remain there till one of the kiddies
gets astride her, afterwards rising like an
ox, quite easily and minus the foreleg
propping stunt or ungainly scramble.
“Ida’s” prad must have been housed in
the spare bedroom.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Dog courage (B.
3/6/’36) is a patchy thing. My bull-
terrier once took on three cattle-dogs
in succession, and licked the lot'. It was
an old feud, their owner was a sport,
and we saw fair play. When the last
opponent set up shrieks for help before
fleeing on three legs, Darcy was a com-
pletely red dog, instead of snow-white.
He danced sportively ahead to the house,
where I prepared to overhaul his
numerous tokens of the encounter. At
the first sight of a tub and a towel,
Darcy’s ears fell, his tail went down
between his legs, and he crept, whimper-
ing, under the tank stand. A bath was
his particular horror in life. However,
such little weaknesses amid strength are
not confined to dogs—l once knew a
V.C. who fainted after a few light needle
scratches for vaccination.
* * *
“Dungeness”: Replying to “Barang-
kali” (B. 3/6/’36): the late Dr. Salter,
formerly of Thursday Island, fold me
that he had known four cases of death
from stonefish sting among men, one of
them a white. About 1899 a dress diver,
working below on the (then) New
Ground, signalled an urgent “up.” He
was dead when got on deck, with a line
of punctures, definitely stonefish, across
one hand. Dr. Koch, long practising at
Cooktown, also had encountered fatal
cases, though mostly among children.
From observation of the agonising pain
experienced by a strong young man for
many hours before assistance could be
reached, and his pallor and shallow
breathing, it seems unlikely that a weakly
or old person could survive. During ex-
tensive association with Torres Strait
natives I never heard of any remedy
known to them.
* * * *
“Kuidsey”: Ned dismounted and dis-
turbed the black snake which had beaten
him to the waterhole. About two feet
of wriggler had disappeared down a hole
before he had a good grip of it. A
steady pull for about one minute and he
was left with about three feet of the
safe end of the reptile in his hands. Ned
gazed at it contemplatively ; then he said,
“Sometimes they’ll double back on yer,
but that bloke won’t. He’ll be too busy
lookin’ fer his other ’alf.”
SjS Jji
“Bimbo”: When I heard of a likely
place where a man might pick up a few
ducks I gets out the old bus, chucks me
gun and dog on board, and off we goes.
When I gets to this joint I sneaks down
into the reeds, and sure enough what I
heard is right. Talk about ducks! I
never seen the like before. Well, I starts
blazing away, and as I drops them in goes
me dog and brings them out on to the
ground behind me. I averages about two
ducks a minute, and after about an hour
I runs clean out of shells. When I turns
around to take stock of things I sees
that me dog has put them birds in two
separate heaps. Now what the blazes
has he done that for, I wonders. But
when I takes a closer look I soon sees.
Blow me if he hasn’t put all the ducks in
one heap and all the drakes in the other.
* * $ *
“8.C.”: Saw the other day on a
western Vic. cow cocky’s scrapheap the
huge letterpress used by the late Rolf
Boldrewood. It was purchased at a
clearing sale for a few pence.
RABBITIN’.
Aw, Digger, what a life this is,
A string of rummy ’abits;
But one must live, an’ so me biz.
Is settin’ traps fer rabbits.
Each evenin’, reg’lar as a clock,
l go upon me journey
Through bush an’ scrub, by log an' rock,
In grassy ground an’ ferny.
When night arrives an’ boobooks call,
An’ dark ’as fallen fully,
Into me little tent I crawl
An’ read a tattered Bully ;
But, just when drowsiness I feel,
Me mind may be distracted,
For now an’ then I ’ear a squeal
An’ know some trap ’as acted.
At early mornin’ orf I start
Ter make me big inspection,
An’ frequently ’twould break yer ’eart
Ter view the poor collection.
But sometimes there’s a dash good ’aul,
An’ then I think: “There’s’money,
Reel dinkum money, though it’s small,
In trailin’ Mister Bunny.”
Then, as I end me job, I see
A puzzle life ’as given:
We’re alwuz killin’ so that we
Ourselves may keep on livin’.
An’ then I wash meself reel well,
But, to me consternation,
I can’t get rid of rabbit smell—
It’s in me cirkerlation.
Rabbitin’, rabbitin’; knockin’ ’em dead,
Sortin’ ’em, gut tin’ ’em, an’—enough said ,
Just catchin’ an’ killin’,
There’s nothin’ that’s thrillin’
In rabbitin’.
VICTORIA.
P. C. C.


“Q. 8.”: Those horn-rimmed abos. (B.
3/6/ 36) recall my visit to Wazzamarrer
Island. A canoe party put out to meet
the schooner, whilst the remaining citi-
zens fired up the cooking-pots on the
beach. My 18st. sailing-master turned
pale, and handed me the glass (telescope).
“My God, colonel,” he gasped, “they are
all wearing spats and monocles!” One
glance showed that he was right. Push-
ing him overboard to delay pursuit, I
made all sail. Later, 1 traced the curious
happening to the usual ex-major of the
Household Brigade, cashiered for card-
sharping. A stout feller, too —indeed, his
increasing stoutness had led to his abrupt
departure from Wazzamarrer —he was
rapidly making a fortune peddling golf
clubs and ready-made plus-fours amongst
the savage land-pirates of Wottzyors.
Eventually he got them so absorbed in
golf that they gave up pirating, received
a free pardon on account of his assist-
ance to British trade, and died a Dio-
cesan Registrar.
❖ 5k sj'
“Zigzag”: The flushing of numbers of
jack-snipe from dry grass downs (B.
3/6/’36) is interesting, because the tiny
jack is usually a solitary fowl. No doubt
the birds seen were migrating, but what
they were doing away from swampy land
is a mystery. Snipe are insect-eaters,
usually probing for their prey in soggy
ground. It is possible that this lot were
reduced to exploring the grass tussocks
for the wogs that always swarm there.
“Dick the Fossicker”: There was an
a bo. camp near a show which we were
working, and one of the little lads had a
very bad cough. A member of our party
who had been a
medical student
gave him cough
mixture. It con-
tained a lot of
liquorice, and the
lad used to enjoy
it. Before long an
old buck came
along and began
to pretend that he,
too, had a bad
cough. “I’ll fix
you, you old
fr a u d,” snapped
our quack. He
mixed a couple of
hefty doses of
colorless liquid.
The buck tossed
the first one off
and appeared to
like it. The second
one he appeared
also to find palat-
able—but only for
a few seconds. He
glanced at his
tummy in a
puzzled way,
clapped his hands
to it, seemed to
find difficulty in
breathing, then
leaped in the air
and lit out for the
horizon, yelling
and jumping. “What was that you
gave him?” asked someone. “Seidlitz
powder,” was the reply. I expressed
my surprise at the strange effect it
had had on the abo. “Nothing strange
about it,” said the quack with a grim
smile. “I gave him the halves separately.”
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: How deep can a porcu-
pine burrow? Last week my dog put
one up on a sandy cultivation paddock.
The ’pine immediately began mining
operations, and so did Towser all around
him. Several hours later the ’pine was
still sinking in the bottom of a pothole
4ft. deep shen Towser came off shift.
* * * *
“G.G.” (N.Q.): Long time me been for
say somting, write paper news. Rain been
alstop the house
farm, the my home.
Water him com up
eververe, plenty in-
sect anmals, him
come the him log
too alsam somzoo,
walk about the him
water, gouanes,
limzards. Frog,
him make noise
plenty, crokem-
crokem the creek,
the grass—eververe.
Everbod him say
book for read in-
side, tellem alto-
gader him come
Garden Eden be-
fore, metink mistac,
big mistac, him be-
long devil, versure
me, versure. Closup
—full the me —
that place Tully—
metink better me
sell the my farm,
go Sydney for trip
—mo better. Two
day ago this
morning too —him,
good sun, come,
make dry the
ground everting
vernice, make glad
the my heart, ever-
bod s too. Vercold
100, vergood—put-
tem plenty densty
the cane sugar.
One more, two
week mabe, him
crush the cane
sugar, start the
mill. Comnists no
come yet, metink
him no trobles. This crush, iarst lime,
farmers him fight verhard, him fright
sure. Him chicken my farm verglad,
make cacklem, alltime the day —roostar
too. Plenty egg, metink, bemby.
* * # *
“Taurus”: Excess of sunshine has no
depilatory effect on the human skull in
my case. I have not worn a hat for six
years, and endure the tropical sun of the
North Queensland coastline every day
of the year, and my hair is as thick as
ever. Baldness comes from within the
scalp.
* * * *
“Stan”: “Dungeness’s” drifted coco-
nut which took root at the end of its 100-
mile voyage (B. 6/5/’36) is no miracle
of fertility. Once 1 picked up a carved-
“ Ambulanshe, ambulanshe!"
bead necklace at a native bazaar in Suva,
Some years later the string snapped at
a fancy-dress ball, and a few of the sal-
vaged beads were afterwards thrown out
in the backyard as useless. Despite the
heavy calibre perforation through their
vitals those beads (or seeds, if you like)
germinated. I had to chop the resultant
trees down as their roots started to lift
the concrete path.
“Orang Laut”: One species of sole
breeds in fresh water: Synaptura sel-
heimi, the only fresh-water sole known
in the world, is found in North Queens-
land rivers, and is identical in appear-
ance to its ocean cousin. But environ-
ment has played curious tricks with its
habits. According to William Mac-
leay, this sole originated in salt water,
“Stop blowing that whistle , you men , and go to bed! I haven't slept a
wink.”
but entered the rivers, and, as a result
of natural obstacles, found it impossible
to return to the sea. Perhaps the most
remarkable alteration in the two species
is the manner of reproduction. The eggs
of the salt-water sole float on the surface
and remain there until hatched. With
Synaptura, however, the eggs sink to the
bottom and are caught up against snags
and rocks. Dame Nature is wonderfully
adaptable. If the eggs floated they would
probably finish up in the sea and lead
to an early extinction of the species.
# * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Murphy and 1 were
both cold sober when I was helping him
run-in about 30 killers. There was bog
over our ankles as we waded along
behind them, the Queensland monsoons
having given us 17 inches in two months.
Murphy gave a shout, jumped and sat in
the mud as his horse pulled back. I
stopped in my tracks, and looked to
where Murphy (too overcome to speak)
was pointing to a snake, well and truly
bogged. About a foot of him was stick-
ing out and making desperate efforts to
pull the rest of itself out. The wethers
had evidently tramped it into the mud as
they passed. I considered it would die
there ; but Murphy, with a hefty stick,
left nothing to chance.
“Errol”: Aboliars who asserted that
the snake is proof against its own venom
have been proved wrong. Some time ago
the British Resident at Salangar, F.M.S.
(Capt. Douglas, R.N.), was teasing a
cobra with a stick when the reptile struck
itself, inflicting a well-marked wound on
its own back. In 10 minutes it was dead.
* * ❖ *
“Kelly”; The American gentleman in
the story who ate a crow for a bet but
said he was damned if he hankered after
a second helping is debunked in his
native land to-day. Of late years America
has gone crazy on game preservation,
and among the vermin specially attacked
is the egg-eating crow, an enemy to wild
duck and other game birds. Not content
with rewards for extermination, a cam-
paign for making the crow a popular
food was started, and now it is stated
the bird is served at meals. My author-
ity is the “Field and Stream,” a journal
devoted to shooting and fishing, which
adds that the bird has been found highly
palatable and is increasing in popularity.
$ * $
“Aveen”: Mail day on a Murchison
(W.A.) station. The mob’s dreams of home
and mother were interrupted by the steady
cursing of old Fred, the rouseabout.
Finally he jumped to his feet and
snarled: “Remember young Jack, who
left here last year for Perth? A decent
bloke, if ever there was one. Well, he’s
gone and married some blasted city tart.
An’, as if that wasn’t enough, he goes
and opens a soft-drink shop! Bah!”
And old Fred stamped off, still muttering.
* -!' * *
“Kumusi”: That heathen Messiah in
New Guinea (B. 3/6/’36) has had plenty
of for e r u nners.
Necessary ingredi-
ents are a smatter-
ing of Christian
doctrine and a keen
eye for the maia
chance. Papua pro-
duced a splendid
example some 35
years ago when a
Northern Division
native started the
“Baigona” cult, a
hotchpotch of
Christianity and
serpent wo r ship
with very definite
tenets on the duty
of paying tithes.
For a time the out-
break paralysed the
work of the Angli-
can mission until a
bowelless Govern-
ment stepped in
and ended the joke.
Much of the
apostle’s success
was due to the fact
that he said an
angel of the Lord
had arrived in the
Merrie England
and imparted the
tenets of the new
faith to him on the
top of Mitre Rock.
In those days the
handsome old
yacht stood for all
that was power and
might in the white
man’s governance
of 8.N.G., and any
angel travelling by
her could write his
own ticket in the matter of a new religion.
* * * *
“Opalite”: Witnessed a fifteen-minute
scrap between a magpie and a two-foot
black-snake. The bird took no risks of
being bitten. Whatever position the
wriggler was in, Maggie would get in
front of it, pounce down, grasp it by
the head and give it a vicious shake or
two, then hop away like lightning, work
round in front of the snake, and pounce
again. This performance was repeated
dozens of times until the snake was dead ;
then the bird strutted round with it in
its beak to an admiring audience of
young magpies, a butcher-bird and a
bower-bird, which had made no attempt
to join in the fray.
* * * *
“Mr. Ketch”: My French colleague
(B. 27/5/’36) should stick to his guillo-
tine. Only a blood-loving foreigner
would suggest revival of the long-dis-
carded metal ring in place of the knot.
It practically severs the subject’s neck.
The sole purpose of judicial hanging is
to displace from its socket the bony peg
which prevents lateral movement of the
skull on the spinal column. Displaced,
it crushes the spinal cord. The big,
stiffly-running knot, bringing up against
the mastoid process under the ear—or
against the chin if the sub-mental trough
is used —tilts the skull sharply over whilst
the ligaments are fully extended. The
touch of grease on the inside of the last
turn of the knot is for helping this tilting
effect, slipping the rounded end of the
bony peg over the edge of its socket. It
is a point of professional pride that the
rope should not break the skin but leave
merely a bruised ring.
* * *
“Billy Fowlhouse”: That pfeller makem
pounnote along Sydney tink him too
cranky. You savvy that red pfeller
tenpounnote? Good pfeller that, all
piccaninny b’long him harpcaste, boy he
savvy them plenty. Japanee man come
in lugger along my island, flash pfeller
that Japanee, him bring redpfeller note,
talk plenty that pfeller sixpounnote,
brother b’long tenpounnote, red all same,
no harpcaste that pfeller. One boy got
tenpounnote, savem up buy dinghy.
Japanee he say good boy you, want
makem present along you, two pfeller
sixpounnote, you gibit one pfeller ten-
pounnote. Boy he take him, say good
pfeller that pfeller two sixpounnote. Boy
go long Thursday Island buy dinghy,
white pfeller he laugh. That redpfeller
sixpounnote not brother b’long tenpoun-
note —blurry harpcaste, him only ten
tschillin’. You tellem that pfeller along
Sydney too much harpcaste alongim
pounnote.
THE GIRL WITH THE MILKPAIL.
Where the cows chew cud in the milkyards
and swish their tails in the bails,
While warm white streams are frothing and
filling ihe tilted pails,
From Gippsland north on the coastline to the
Dawson Valley farms,
The girl who sits with the milkpail is hiding
her maiden charms.
She has no camera poses, no press-puff fibs
to tell ;
But the girl who sits with the milkpail—she
looks uncommon well!
In simple and quiet fashion her shapeliness is
frocked,
With a man’s hat keeping her hair in, at a
handy angle cocked.
Her soft hands giving the milk-flow a rhythmic
churning lay,
She sits, her face to the sunrise, a picture to
carry away.
Or, tilting her pail to a milkcan and pouring
its richness slow,
She’s sweet, is the girl with the milkpail in
a cowbail cameo.
Where the farms stand back in the scrublands
from the lanes and the winding tracks,
Where smoke curls up from the chimneys of
a hundred hundred shacks,
In sheds you could scarcely liken to a palace
or marble hall,
There sits the girl with the milkpail by a cow
m a lime-white stall.
Her cheeks touched lightly with sun-tan, she
milks with her head inclined;
Once glimpsed in her native setting, she’s easy
to keep in mind.
QUEENSLAND.
L. A. S.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1565.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised ~ £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ~ .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
drafts and Letters of Credit Issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from, abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All visual
banking business transacted.
KNOWN TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
FOR 83 YEARS
for its medicinal
qua l ities wmmm
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH'S SAKE-
r
'M
WOLFES
i mnzDAM
llmm
&ig/.
~£
mmm
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
WADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY
£- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PT y. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide.. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. _
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Show Fleeces.
“Bungaree”: It is disappointing that
the newly-introduced section for fleeces
at Sydney Sheep Show failed to attract
a single entry.
Graziers are to provide funds to adver-
tise manufactured woollen goods, yet a
first-rate opportunity of advertising is
being neglected. It was the intention of
the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association
to make up an exhibit of the prize-win-
ning fleeces and show them at the S’Afri-
can exhibition at Johannesburg; and
while that intention still holds good, the
fleeces will have to be obtained by private
arrangement with studmasters or others,
which is not nearly so satisfactory.
Reasons for the lack of support are
obscure. Similar competitions in country
shows have attracted hundreds of fleeces,
and it is only natural to assume that if
competitors had been aware of the Syd-
ney competitions they would have made
arrangements accordingly.
In spite of the lack of response this
year there is every possibility of the sec-
tion being retained. The following allo-
cation of points should be of interest to
intending competitors in this and other
exhibitions:
Trueness to type .. .. 10 points.
Length 6
Soundness .. .. .. 6 ~
Softness .. .. .. .. 6
Color .. •.. .. .. 6 „
Character .. .. .. 10 ~
Density .. .. .. .. 6 „
Evenness .. .. .. 10
Yield .. .. .. .. 20 ~
Weight of fleece .. .. 20 ,’
100 points.
It will be noted that the greatest num-
ber of points is awarded for yield and
weight. Trueness to type and character
are the next most important features, so
it follows that the ideal show fleece
should be bulky, but not generous in
condition.
Crimp should be pronounced, showy
and even from one end of the staple to the
other, and it should be evident at a glance
whether the fleece is a fine, medium or
strong wool. That constitutes trueness
to type, a definition often confused with
evenness, which applies to the quality of
the wool all over the fleece.
It is not much use entering a fleece
that is 70’s on the shoulder and 60’s on
the neck or britch.
At Sydney there are three merino
classes for fine (70’s and better),
medium (64’s) and strong (60’s) fleeces
respectively. There is also a class for
a fleece of any breed, to be judged on
commercial value, which may interest
Corriedale and Polwarth breeders.
It is advisable to pick the fleeces while
on the sheep’s backs. Raddle the selected
animals on the nose and have them shorn
by the best shearer on the board, with
instructions not to tear off the belly
wool as usual, but to leave it attached to
the fleece. Roll the unskirted fleece care-
fully with belly wool inside and shorn
side out. Wrap it in paper and put it
aside where it will not be crushed or
knocked about—don’t place another
fleece on top of it. Towards the end of
shearing open out the possibles, and with
the woolclasser’s help select the best
fleeces.
The Sheepbreeders’ Association will
forward cardboard boxes for fleeces to
any competitor on receipt of entries, and
it is to be hoped that this important sec-
tion will receive the wide representation
it merits next year.
Inoculating Against Botulism.
Experiments in inoculating sheep
against botulism (toxic paralysis) have
been carried out at the Meckering (W.A.)
Government farm. They have yielded
important results, which are reported by
the State Director of Agriculture and de-
tailed in the Westralian “Sunday Times.”
Rabbit carrion artificially infected with
a C.S.I.R. toxoid was used.
Three sheep which had not previously
been protected with the vaccine were
“Did y' dig the rabbits out ?”
“ Pullin' me leg, Wasn't y'? The little beggars can get out themselves!"
dosed with toxic rabbit muscle ; three,
five and seven grammes respectively.
All died within two days. Six sheep
previously protected with the vaccine
were given from 3 to 50 grammes of
toxic muscle. None showed any signs
of toxic paralysis.
The experiment was repeated with
three sheep not protected and 12 pro-
tected sheep. As before, the unprotected
animals died within two days. Of the
others, 11 showed no symptoms of
disease, though they received from 50
to 100 grammes of toxic muscle ; and
one died. The report is that this sheep
was included by mistake and was sick
at the time it was drenched.
Field conditions were then tried. Eight
rabbit carcasses were infected by culture
and were placed in the open, acces-
sible to 10 sheep vaccinated with the
toxoid and 10 unvaccinated sheep. The
first unvaccinated sheep died two days
later; by the eighth day six unvaccinated
sheep had died and one was showing
symptoms of toxic paralysis. No vac-
cinated sheep revealed any symptoms,
though a number of these .were seen
eating the toxic rabbit carcasses. There
are several types of Bacillus botulinus —
the germ which causes toxic paralysis.
The toxoid at present in use will pro-
tect against only one of these, Type C, but
only Type C has been identified in West-
ralia.
The Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories make the vaccine, and cost in
Westralia is reckoned at 30s. per 100
sheep. Treatment consists of two inocu-
lations at an interval of eight weeks.
Inoculations should be completed by the
end of November.
Scouring Dead Wool.
“B-gar”: “Bungaree” (B. 27/5/’36)
gives good advice anent the handling of
dead wool, but it’s a losing proposition
to sell it raw if conveniences are avail-
able for home-scouring.
For a lot of mixed “dead” the local
buyer offered me 14d. per pound. No
business; the wool cost nearly that
much per pound to collect. 1 hand-
scoured the wool at home, and got
with an average yield of 46 p.c. an
average price of 21d. per pound*
First procedure was sorting and then
soaking, sweating and pulling of skin
pieces. For scouring three 30-gallon
tanks were used. A score of kerosene-
tins before a fire in the open allowed an
ample supply of warm water to be kept
up.
Ordinary kerosene soap and soda, well
mixed in the water of the first two tanks,
with plain lukewarm water in the third
tank for rinsing, did the job—that and
manual labor. Between tanks, a boy
did the wringing by hand. The wool was
dried on tarpaulins. As occasion de-
manded the tanks were emptied and
fresh scouring and rinsing waters poured
in.
Ropy wool? Just slightly, but not
enough to prevent all the fleece realising
prices that proved that the time and
trouble taken were well worth while.
Harrowing Pastures.
“Stump Jump”: In all-pasture districts
in southern N. S. Wales drastic harrow-
ing along the lines popular a few years
ago has almost disappeared.
One reason is that perennial rye—the
staple of most pasture schemes—thrives
better as the soil becomes more com-
pact. Clovers —White Dutch and Wild
White—seem to prefer firm soil also.
Really it is hard to find any sound reason
why pasture lands should be torn about
as though they were cultivation pad-
docks.
One of the most valuable aids to a suc-
cessful pasture is the development of a
thick sole of grass and clover roots, which
prevents evaporation losses.
Drastic harrowing ruins this. Tearing
up is the result of a common idea in
farming that no cultivation can be too
severe. In pasture work this does not
hold.
The most anyone can expect from har-
rowing is disintegration of manure piles,
partial stalking of dry stems, loosen-
ing of coarse crown tufts and encourage-
ment of a nitro-humus mat of rotting,
organic trash in the dense sole of the
pasture. This last is important, because
the plants need nitrogen just as much as
super., and the successful, continuous
rotting of this mat is the easiest and
cheapest way to supply it.
Rotting roots, trodden-down stems and
leaves, together with manure, form the
base or culture for nitrogen-accumulating
bacteria to multiply in.
This mat requires only a light stirring
fairly frequently to prevent stagnation.
Uprooting it merely dehydrates it.
Consequently chain or tripod harrows
—perhaps a mixture of both—will do
the work very well and not give the plot
a setback.
Dormancy in Sub. Clover.
“Lion”: Sub. clover seed, especially
new season’s, often fails to grow well
the first year, but will do so the
second and third years. Dormancy is a
habit of s.c.
In one paddock we sowed three years
ago, scarcely 10 p.c. of the seed shot,
in spite of lcwt. super, per acre. What
did shoot grew well. This paddock was
then stocked properly and shut off for
seeding.
The second year, it was top-dressed
with another hundredweight of super.,
but no fresh seed was sown. Rainfall
was moderate. There was a heavy growth
of plants.
This year (the third) there has been
little autumn rain following another dress-
ing of super., but the paddock is
smothered with s.c. When the rains come
it will make a thick mat all over the
paddock.
Points to remember are (1) that s.c.
stays good in the ground for long
periods ; (2) that it seeds prolifically even
when well stocked. It is an annual and
must seed in order to propagate and
spread. Every root dies each year.
Grazing will kill very young plants.
Allow a good growth first, by leaving the
paddocks for six weeks after three leaves
appear on the majority of plants.
Heavy stocking can then take place,
without harm, until flowering. Remove
stock then to allow seeding to best ad-
vantage.
After this, stock as needed. Sheep
can’t get many of the seeds as s.c. actu-
ally plants them about fin. to Jin.
below the surface on all soft soils.
Once a paddock is well established
such careful stocking isn’t necessary—
seeding is so prolific. Be careful, how-
ever, at the young-plant stage each year.
(Continued on page 24.)


Sr.lV!i
11
*sa
m
i
b J'nc s
■i
rO//
4yv/?
m
f:WK<S
;;&WW-WvX%syj&
•<. <&>l
Wft*
IIMI
itll
MODEL 565
5-Valve A.C. Electric DUAL WAVE
Superheterodyne. Overseas Reception.
One of the most amazing Dual Wave Receivers yet offered
for sale in this country.
Owing to its completely new design and exclusive Airzone
features, it gives an astounding performance on both broad-
cast and short wave bands.
It has many outstanding features, including —
New -Metal Valves, Electric Eye, Metal Core Coils,
Automatic Volume Control, Remarkable Selectivity
and Sensitivity, Special Dynamic Speaker, Tone Con-
trol, Noise Suppressor,
Edge Lit Dial.
This remarkable set, in com-
mon with all Airzone Models,
has a beautiful Cabinet with
a high piano finish.
Cash Price
£2B-15-0
Easy Terms
/
cyi IRZONE Offers You
Never - Ending Entertainmentl
AND such entertainment too —the world's greatest artists, singers, pianists,
violinists; Tauber, Crooks, McCormack, Peter Dawson, Grace Moore,
Heifetz, Cortot and Australian Eileen Joyce fill your home with their charm.
The great master conductors wave their batons for your pleasure bringing
magnificent orchestral music to your fireside. And then, mirth and merri-
ment! The crash and jangle of joyful dance tunes, the quips of comic opera
and from across the footlights the risque joke of musical comedy and the
broad fun of the vaudeville show.
All with an Airzone! All kinds of musical beauty, grave and gay, all sorts
of rippling fun and nonsense —all manner of means to pass time happily,
educational talks. International football, Davis Cup tennis, racing
entertainment galore.
And, remember—it's better on an Airzone. If it's music, it s at its best,
if it's speech, it's clearer—for “Airzone’s tone is Airzone’s own .’
MODEL 556
5-valve A.C. Electric
Superheterodyne.
Interstate Reception.
This magnificent model has a special Speaker
which gives amazing tonal quality and
volume. A new horizontal dial is fitted with
edge illuminated glass scale. Fitted with
"G" type glass valves and metal core coils,
the very latest development, giving consider-
able increase in efficiency, greater selectivity
and more sensitivity.
CASH
PRICE
20 Guineas
EASY
TERMS
COUPON
If you (lo not know the name of your
nearest dealer, mail this coupon to AIR-
ZONE (1931) Ltd., 16-22 Australia St.,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post illustrated folder of Airzone Receivers
and advise me of your nearest dealer.
NAME
ADDRESS
PRINT IN BLOCK CAPITALS.
Sydney Retailers:
David lones Ltd.
Nicholsons Limited
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Carnegie & Sons
Elvy & Co. Ltd.
Farmer & Co. Ltd.
Bebarfalds Ltd.
Nock & Kirby Ltd.
E. F. Wilks & Co.
Ltd.
W. Harry Wiles
C. Winkworth 5
Son Ltd.
Mark Foy's Ltd.
Bryants Ltd.
Salonola Radio
Suttons Pty. Ltd.
Sydney Wholesalers:
Bloch & Gerber Ltd. Fox & Macgillycuddy Ltd.
Mick Simmons Ltd. Westcott, Hazell & Co. Ltd.
COUNTRY RESIDENTS: Airzone also makes fine battery Sets.
Ask the authorized dealer in your town for a demonstration.
Residents in States other than N.S.W. can obtain
Airzone Fine Radio from the leading Music and Radio
Houses and Departmental Stores.
wsmmmmimmtismm
m.
m
5.36.200
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Limited, 16-22 Australia St., Camperdown.
N E
RAD I 0


PRICES:
BLACK 27/6
BROWN 27/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
EXTRA COMFORT
IN THIS STURDY
RIDING BOOT.
RIDING BOOT which com-
bines comfort, quality and
good appearance with economy
is indeed a valuable acquisition.
This Abbey Boot has all these
qualities, and can be relied upon
to give faithful service under
all conditions.
Ask for a tin of Dale’s English
Dubbin. It keeps the leather
supple and waterproof.
Price, 2/6.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
W.A.35.
M
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selector! Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, X.vlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Stronglv-made, grained leather case free with each iazor.
THE PL.CM RAZOR GUARD, for gin., gin. and £in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIIKDX, 651 George Street, Sydney.
* 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak ease): Black, 85/
Xylo 100/
Ivory 140/
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in ewe
widths, |in. and Jin
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
vears free of charge.
%e
m
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
June Issue Now on Sale.
Special
FORESTRY COMPANY REVIEWS
Developments and Prospects
INDUSTRIAL SHARES
Their Earnings and the Sharemarket
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all State
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
' I
;
nuA
*1
lli
m
mm
■ ■
mmmm
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes ?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Position Vacant.
KELLERBERRIN
VETERINARY CLUB.
A PPLICATIONS are invited from
Registered Qualified Veterinary Sur-
geons prepared to commence Practice
in the Kellerberrin District, Western Aus-
tralia. Approximate number of big
stock 3000, owned by 160 members. To
enable Practitioner to become estab-
lished, the Club offers £l2/10/- monthly
for twelve months. References to
accompany applications. For further
particulars, apply to Secretary, Keller-
berrin.
Fatter Pig Cheques.
South Australians are realising that
there is money in pig production where
market requirements, local and over-
seas, are studied. Farmers going in for
pigs, or dissatisfied with results hitherto
obtained, are recommended to consult
their very efficient Department of Agri-
culture, which will advise them as to the
most suitable type of animal to raise in
each district, the correct ration and
methods of feeding.
A representative conference at Port
Lincoln—departments, bacon factories
and exporting agents sent delegates—
discussed the condition of the industry.
Out of its deliberations came the fol-
lowing hints to S.A. farmers, and they
could be adopted with advantage in
other States:
Overfat and ill-shaped pigs are the
progeny of the wrong types of boars and
sows. See that you have the right types.
The best weights for bacon purposes
are from 1051 b. to 1401 b.
Many carcasses have to be cut about
and rejected owing to old bruises or
scars. These point to defective fences,
yards or sties. See that all projecting
ends of wire, broken posts or rails are
removed.
Pigs should not be kicked, harassed by
dogs, or overcrowded in lorries or rail-
way vans.
When consigning by rail, don’t load
boars or stags in with other pigs, unless
the boar or stag is isolated in the van
by a temporary hurdle or crate. And
don’t load large calves in the same van
as pigs unless they are isolated.
A bit of clean straw, damped with
water, should be placed in each pig van.
Pigs travel more contentedly if this is done.
Husk-free Oats.
“Azotobacter”: After 20 years’ experi-
menting Norfolk (Eng.) reports the de-
velopment of oats free from husk. It is
interesting to Australia for many reasons,
one being that such oats could be used
as pig feed for growers in cooler districts.
A difficulty'in feeding pigs is to supply
a sufficient variety of amino acids in
the protein. Oats would help to over-
come this, but owing to the large per-
centage of husk it is not practicable with
ordinary oats, while the cost of ground
oats and meal is prohibitive.
The breeders of the new type have
cropped up to per acre on
medium land, and have 3000 cwt. avail-
able for seed. So great is the demand
for trial lots that £l2 per bag is
being asked and presumably given.
Tangier Peas.
“Kandy”: In W.A. the Tangier pea
is now being grown with success. The
pea was originally introduced from N.
Africa to California as an ornamental
plant, but about 15 years ago its value
as a field crop became appreciated. It
is now grown extensively in U.S.A., both
as a green crop and for seed.
Tangier peas should be sown early in
the winter at the rate of about 251 b. per
acre. The seedlings do not make much
growth until the warm spring weather,
on the advent of which the plants develop
at an amazing rate, and at time of flower-
ing may form a tangled mass up to 7ft.
high. The plant is deep-rooted and
aggressive, and will choke out all but the
most robust of weeds. Plants remain
green and flowering well into the
summer.
The crop can be fed off at any stage
of growth or cut for hay or silage. The
plank material is palatable, and has the
nutritive value typical of good legumi-
nous fodders. In Westralia sheep-farmers
are how growing Tangier peas and allow-
ing the crop to mature and seed. Sheep
are then given access to the paddocks
(which may be kept as reserve feed for
the end of summer). The seeds are
readily collected off the ground and con-
sumed with the dried plant remnants.
At the W.A. University it has been
found that Tangier peas have an average
crude protein content of 39 p.c. as com-
pared with the 11 p.c. found in local
f.a.q. wheats and 24 p.c. in field peas.
The total of digestible nutrients is also
high. The seeds are rich in phosphorus
and calcium, two minerals of prime im-
portance in animal nutrition.
Sheep seem to do well on Tangier peas.
Pigs and cattle also consume the legume
with great relish.
Hints for the Farm.
“Centre”: Blowfly traps round the
farmhouse? Half-drown a piece of
under-cooked bullock liver or other
meat in a jamtin, and cover it with fine
mesh gauze. Fasten the contraption to
a stick driven into the ground in the
duckyard. The ducks will grow fat, and
the blowflies cease from troubling. I’ve
had a couple going now for some months.
“Azotobacter”: If you have trouble
with the belt coming off a small pulley
fix an old plough disc, concavity out-
wards, on the pulley axle. Where there
is not enough axle to do this, fit a
piece of piping into centre of disc, bore
pipe on either side of disc to take cotter
pins and bore end fitting over axle and
axle itself to take a cotter pin. Jamb
disc against the pulley, so that it can’t
work loose.
“Farmint”: A handy gadget for shoot-
ing a line or angle is easily made from a
square piece of wood ; 6in. square and
4in. thick is a nice size. Make a saw-cut
from corner to corner, and countersink
a screw through centre to a length of
broomhandle, pointed to stick in the
ground. A line is laid by squinting
through the saw-cut. Once a line is
sighted, squinting through the other saw-
cut will fix a line as a true right-angle to
the other.
“A.K.”: Paint for blackboards,
cameras and the like? Break discarded
gramophone records into small pieces.
Place in a jar and cover with methy-
lated spirits. Leave for a day or two
till jellied ; then stir well and thin out.
The addition of about 10 p.c. of shellac
solution made in the same way is an
improvement, and any degree of gloss
may be obtained by varying proportion
of added shellac. Without shellac the
paint makes a dead black suitable for
interior of cameras; it sticks well to
metal as well as wood and is also in-
sulating.
“Agamemnon”: For coastal derma-
titis in cattle, give to fib. of Epsom
salts, and treat affected areas with carron
oil. About Murwillumbah (N.S.W.)
it has been noted that Smart weed has
been present on holdings where this
disease has been found. It is only too
probable that Smart weed produces a
sensitive condition of the skin in the
same way as St. John’s wort.
“Beefo”: Bathing the eye constantly
with lotions made from boracic acid or
zinc sulphate (B. 29/4/’36) is unsatisfac-
tory for watery-eye. Use dry boracic,
with an ordinary oilcan. As a rule it’s
easy to blow in the first application of
dry powder, but, if the horse objects
later and throwing is not resorted to,
blindfold him. Never use salt, powdered
bluestone, sugar or other irritants.
“Farmint”: To loosen a tight nut,
first be sure you are using the right-
sized spanner. Give the nut a good tap-
ping, and try again. Then try increasing
the leverage by putting a length of pipe
over the spanner. Warming the nut with
a candle or lamp flame often does the
trick, but if it doesn’t you will have to
let it go until continual applications of
kerosene have had a chance to work in.
Grease the nut before you put it on
again. Mutton-fat is still the best for
that.
“Valerin'': The other day in Riverina
1 got a ton of molasses for sheep feed,
price £ll. Freight came to £5 18s. This
looked a bit torrid until the local s.m.
sent a demand for £26 12s. freight on a
15-ton truck of sheep salt, which cost
me £22 18s. f.o.r. It’s these little things
which put a sag in the country’s back-
bone.
“Riverine”: Black thistle is spreading
extensively over richer N.S.W. cultivat-
able lands, and once it gets a hold is
hard to eradicate. There is a period in
its growth when it can be checked—
roughly, October and November. Natur-
ally, the exact time of attack varies in
different districts, and can only be de-
termined by experimenting with the disc.
It is worth the trouble to get rid of the
worthless plant.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youri? Streets, Sydney
■
35
m
in
t*,
i
Hh
ill
■
illllt
111 M.i
ill
m
Vlltl
ill
■
19
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 C 4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
■ “ ‘Women prefer men who have something
tender about them,’ says a feminist."
Legal tender, for preference.
•F *F *F *F
“Convicts Taught Needlework.”
—“S.M.Hr
A stitch in time.
•F *F *F -F
“International Cricketer Divorces Wife after
Brief Marriage.” —Cable item.
A Test match.
F -F -F *F
“ ‘My wife does fancy work,’ says a returned
traveller.”
Lucky fellow, when so many other
wives hate it.
F F F F
“On some days the elements combine to
make life unpleasant.” — “S.M.H.”
The rain, especially, gives a good
example of teem work.
•F *F *F *F
“The son wrote a piteous appeal for paternal
help, winding up with the confession that he
was obliged to sleep in an empty cowshed.”
Then back came a postcard —“Dear
Osbert, is there room for two?”
“It's funny you fellows always pick on me.”
“Funny, eh? Well , w'y don't y' laugh?"
“An elephant stopped a circus train by pull-
ing the communication cord.” —News item.
A trunk call.
“She bit her hip in an effort to keep back
the tears.”— Love novelette.
These heroines do some curious things
at times.
*F a
“There is a species of fish in the Sargasso
Sea that possesses embryo hands.”
—Nature note.
They use them, of course, for demon-
strating the size of the fellow they got
away from.
-I- *F *l* *F
“American police have issued a lunacy war-
rant against a politician.”
Marvellous how they knew which one
to pick!
•F F* *F *F
These Labor-saving Devices.
For years my wife has complained that
when she opens sealed milk-bottles the
contents squish all over her. So I bought
a patent milk-bottle unsealer.
I built a bench of 3in. by 3in. hard-
wood near the sink to take the gadget,
and spent five nights assembling it. The
complex medley of parts enabled me to
give my family a recital of the more per-
suasive expressions embodied in the aver-
age mechanic’s repertoire.
At last 1 got the thing installed, and
after the milko bounced our two pints
along the verandah next morning I placed
a bottle in the contrivance, told the wife
and kids to stand clear and pulled the
lever.
There was a screech like tyres being
skidded at 70 m.p.h., a dull explosion,
whistling of flying glass and a horrible
clatter of disintegrating machinery. When
I’d dazedly lifted l|lb. of gear-wheel off
my foot and wiped the milk out of my
eye I got the kids picking up the pieces.
The cat was the sole appreciator of my
efforts.
The missus opened the second bottle
with her thumb.
. P.C.
•F *F *F *F
Desperate Endeavor.
He was working against time.
Time—if he could only get the thing
opened in time!
The thought kept hammering at his
brain as he rapidly manipulated the shin-
ing, metal cutting-tool. Gosh, but it was
tough going. Still, once he had a hole
cut in it, he’d be able to get the stuff out
and make a quick getaway. Time!
Time! That was the thing that worried
him!
He darted a quick glance at his watch.
Hell! If he didn’t get out soon
He made a final desperate effort to cut
through the stout metal. But, no, he was
not making much impression on it.
“Damn!” he exploded as he flung the
opener to the floor and made for the
door. “No breakfast again, and I’ll bet
I’ve missed that train! ”
Gee.
•F *F *F *F
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
V. — Developing a Traffic Sense.
Back on your proper side again, get
the wife to change into second gear. As
she zigzags along, explain that she is ro
put the selector half-way up, across and
then up again. A sound not unlike a
saw cutting through galvanised iron will
denote that she is trying to get into gear
without using the clutch.
“Put your clutch
out!” you yell
above the din.
“But it’s already
sticking out,” she’ll
say.
“No! No! Step
on it — push it in!”
“First you tell
me to put it out
and now you say
push it in—why
don’t you say what
you mean?”
With a further
awful grinding of
gear-teeth the selec-
tor goes in. By
this time you will
be approaching the
end of the street.
Appalled at the
gathering speed (12
m.p.h.), she will
take her feet off
everything, and, as
the car loses pace,
and the engine
knocks, will come:
“Which way will I turn the wheel to
go round to the left?”
As you explain as she turns, the engine
will stall, with the car coming to a halt
and swung across the road, blocking a
big lorry just coming along. As the
driver jambs on the brake a sarcastic
voice will float across:
“You bet your life it’s a woman driver,”
and, as she gropes for something to start
it with, “Don’t mind us, missus—we’ve
got tons o’ time,” and, in a loud aside
to his mate, “There ought to be a law
against lettin’ half-witted sheilahs get
behind a wheel.”
As backing will be necessary to get
clearance, put it in reverse yourself and
tell her to let in the clutch and rev. up.
To the accompaniment of loud guffaws
from the lorry, the car will shoot back-
wards and then stop with a jerk as she
comes down heavily on the brake pedal.
It would perhaps be better to say nothing
when, on going past the lorry into a side
street, comes a raucous laugh and a
“You’re goin’ good, missus—you’ll be a
soda f’r your license in a year or two!”
You will now be in a long, narrow
street, ideal for teaching her to drive
straight. But she will naturally gravitate
to the right-hand side, so you say quietly:
“You’re on the wrong side —keep over
to the left more.”
Perhaps it is the last rude remark
of the lorry-driver sticking in her gizzard,
for she’ll snap: “All right! All right!
I know without your shouting it at me.”
S. W. K.
*F *F *F *F
Making Port.
The lookout in the bows gazed out
into the fog with concentrated intensity.
“Nothing in sight,” he reiterated mono-
tonously, while the skipper frowned and
thought of the trouble that’ would come
if some cock-eyed swab of a fisherman
should cross his bows.
“Half-speed!” he called to the en-
gineer, dimly visible near the puffing
Diesels. There was little more he could
do. If some larger craft were to charge
“ Schooner, sir?”
“ Schooner , be jiggered! Gimme a Queen Mary!”
into him, the boats were already down,
riding astern on the painters. His pas-
sengers would be safe, the cargo doomed.
Cost a bit in insurance, he thought, as
he weighed up the value of the load of
engines and chassis which strewed his
decks.
He noticed the line coming in and
then falling once more into the water
with maddening monotony. He could
hear no leadman’s voice, but it didn’t
matter. He was sure of his course, at
least.
“The jetty! ” suddenly pealed the voice
of the lookout. The captain breathed a
sigh of relief.
“Open the gates!” he roared. “Cars
on the left are to move off first, and the
rest will stay on the punt until they are
clear! ”
Cloon.
*F *F »F *F
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XX.— Miss Birdseed’s Impressions.
Miss Birdseed enjoyed her stay in Mel-
bourne and gathered quite a lot of
material for her book Antipodean Antics,
as extracts from Chapter 16 will show.
In addition to the electric trams they’ve
also got some that haven’t any overhead
wires at all. The conductor told me they
were run by cable, but, of course, I know
he was only joking. I suppose he really
meant by wireless, because' cables are
things you read in the newspapers. Any-
way, they (the trams) are just too cute,
and gave me a delicious sense of adven-
ture —though I couldn’t see why the men
had to push them around corners. Perhaps
wireless waves won’t bend!
A little further on she says:
“....visited Captain Cook’s cottage.
This is the very house Captain Cook lived
in before he discovered Australia in 1066.
At least, that’s what the guide told me,
but it didn’t seem quite right somehow,
as I couldn’t see how he could be living
in a Melbourne cottage before he had even
the place. I mentioned this
to Mr. Counterpane (a charming young
man in our party), and he suggested that
perhaps Captain Cook just happened to
come this way by accident and lived in the
cottage for some time before he discovered
he was in Australia. He said he’d done
similar things himself occasionally.
I recollect our visit to the cottage per-
fectly. When Sir Percy Whipsnoodle saw
it he asked who Captain Cook was, and
on being told that he discovered Aus-
tralia he said in surprised tones:
“By Jove! You don’t say so! When
I went to school they used to blame a
chap called Christopher Columbus. Or
was it Bacon? No, Columbus. That’s
right. Used to do tricks with eggs, I
remember.”
Claude suggested that that seemed
rather to support the Bacon theory, but
Sir Percy was not amused.
Mrs. Loofah said Cook couldn’t have
been of much account because it was
only a shabby little cottage, and didn’t
look as if it belonged to a man of taste.
As an afterthought she said she supposed
Cook was one of those ticket-of-leave
men she’d read about.
If the tourist tires of the wild night-
life of the picture shows and milk bars
a short' visit to Royal Park may provide
him with a little entertainment.
Miss Birdseed went there, but not, as
far as one can ascertain from her book,
with a detective.
A nice young man X met offered to drive
me out to Royal Park, where all the hold-
ups happen. I was thrilled! We drove
out and sat there in the dark for a long
time, but nothing happened. I was ter-
ribly disappointed.
Presumably it was the same young
man who drove her around the suburbs
pointing out places of interest.
“... .to Fisherman’s Bend, which he said
was shortly to be renamed Dunstan’s
Twist Flemington, where the Waterloo
Cup or something is shot for a tin
shed in Elizabeth-street erected by the
P.M.G. to commemorate the discovery of
corrugated-iron... .and Kooyong, where
the Melbourne Cup is run....
She certainly had a good time.
Jasby.
Resignation.
For Lena first I madly fell;
Then, after Olga broke my heart,
/ sought surcease with I sob el,
Who fooled me with deceptive art.
Jean followed; she was one of those
Who dig for gold. And after that
My days were filled with thoughts of
Rose,
Who proved to be a vicious cat.
Mae caused my family to scoff;
With worry Winnie made me droop ;
Flo finished my finances off;
Then Celia left me in the soup.
Thus have 1 learnt with sorrow how
The soul of man is sorely vexed
By fiends in fair disguise. So, now,
/ wonder who will be the next.
T. W. N.
First Person Singular.
Behold it, straight and staunch, the
letter “I,”
A simple column with an empty shelf;
A pedestal where many a man will try
To place a monument unto himself.
VEX.


A Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:—
The Papuan
BY
MO NTE
HOLCROFT
iuuSypate-d
9y
?uof
Chapter I V.—(Continued.)
AS Paul picked up his hat he found that he was
bending over her and that he was being assailed
as never before by her energy of possessiveness.
“Won’t you kiss me before you go?”
“I can’t! I”-
“I know,” she nodded. “You’re afraid. I don’t
blame you. Off you go then.”
• He was suspicious and uneasy and faintly afraid
of her. She had left something unfinished.
“Wait a moment!”
He paused with his hand at the door.
“Come back, Paul. There’s still something to
say to you.”
He hesitated, and was alarmed at an uprush of
ugly feeling. Hate seethed up through irritation and
fear, and he began to tremble. The moment passed.
“There’s nothing more to say.”
“Then,” she said, “if you refuse to come to me
I must go to you.”
She left the divan and came into the full glow
of the lamps: a short woman and plump but neatly
moulded.
“Wait for me, Paul!”
He opened the door. A flight of stairs fell away
from the landing, and he turned hastily to these. The
door slammed behind him, and the stairs complained
beneath his drumming shoes. Then he was outside
breathing the sharp air and lifting his head towards
the stars.
“Thank God!” he muttered.
But there was a desperation in his voice which
expressed more than relief. To be free of the flat did
not mean to be free of Lola. He knew from of old
that something of her would go with him, back to
his rooms and into the restless hours of the night.
She was too much for him. She would draw him
back and question him.
“Not this time!” he thought. “Not this time!”
He had to beat her this once. All his future life
was staked against the effort.
“If I can beat her once,” he thought, “I’m free! ”
Chapter V.
I.
ON the following morning a letter arrived from
Joyce. Paul read it in bed, leaving his early
cup of tea untasted.
“I should have written to you before, dearest,”
she wrote, “but I’ve had a childish desire to surprise
you with my nearness. This letter will be posted in
Marseilles; we arrive there to-morrow; and by the
time you have it I shall be somewhere off the coast
of Portugal—and only two or three days from our
meeting. Think of it, Paul! The meeting we’ve been
preparing for through all the lonely months is now
almost on us. I try to be calm at the thought, but
there’s a strange, new pulse beating somewhere deep
inside me, and it hurries me into excitement and will
not allow me to think of anything except you. And
it’s not thinking. I simply sit about and brood over
you ; I see little flashing pictures: your head bent
towards me, your eyes wide open and candid, your
face all in light—as I shall see it when you stand
with hands out to welcome me. It makes me doubly
thankful that we are not to see each other for the
first time on a railway station. Only silence and hills
and trees have any right to be the background. I’m
longing for it. dearest!”
There were several pages in this vein.
. There was so much I wanted to say,” she wrote
in the last paragraph, “and now I seem to have said
nothing but the one thing over and over: that I’m
'■vmg Just to be with you in that valley in Surrey.
I here fore, my dear, you 1 must hunt out that earlier
and longer letter of mine, written to you while I was
still in Papua. Read it through once more, and let
it stay in your rnind as a solvent of the world's fumes.
I tear that in your London flat it may be hard to
accept my strange ideas ; thoughts that seem grand
and logical in the Papuan jungle have a way of
lading in the smoke and fog. But 1 know that in
your heart you cannot help agreeing with all that
1 wrote in those eager days. We are near to each
other, Paul; we can think alike concerning the im-
portant things. And if you take up that earlier letter
and keep it close to you in the. coming days you will
lose all sense of strangeness in the thought of our
meeting- in the valley—our union, dearest!”
Paul put the letter aside and lay for a long time
staring at the ceiling. Sounds of the day's life came
up from the streets. A rumble of wheels made an
undertone from the direction of Victoria station,;, not
tar from where he.lay the trains were gliding in from
Suburbs and country. Ebury-street was quiet. Trades-
men were making their morning calls, but there seemed
to be little unnecessary noise. Taxis came and went
with gentle, gliding sounds; the slamming of their
doors broke sharply upon the; unburdened air.
His first impulse was gladness. ,But this ebbed,
thoughts of Joyce were followed all too quickly by
thoughts of Lola. To overcome these he got out of
bed and went into his living-room to. a writing-desk
where letters were stored. The morning, was fresh.
May was only a day or two distant, but the last of
April had come edged.with sleety showers. He found
Joyce’s letter and scrambled back into bed. : At first
he read greedily, opening himself to Joyce’s influ-
ence, and pausing only to indulge himself with tenta-
tive visions of her as she appeared in his memory.
But the letter was a long one, and towards the end
he was stopping to wonder—as he had wondered: at
his first reading, although shamefacedly—if he really
knew this woman. He returned to thee most puzzling
parts of her letter and read them over a second and
third time. The main difficulty was. the knowledge
that he was expected to share the attitude she had
outlined for him. He tried, but the mere fact that
trying was necessary showed him all too plainly that
he and Joyce were not as close to each other as she
had believed them to be.
“Sometimes,” he read, “I wonder if our mar-
riage can be what I want it to be. I can’t feel quite
sure. You’re Paul, I'm Joyce. When we marry' we’ve
got to become Paul-Joyce. And what sort of com-
bination is. that going to be? In some way it won’t
be a combination ; it will be an entirely new organism.
We’re quite confident about this Paul-Joyce person
now, of course ; but we’re not really capable of seeing
straight at present. By the time you have this letter
you may have sobered up, and I hope you’ll sit down
in some quiet place and examine your feelings most
carefully.”
This could be treated lightly enough as the mere
extravagance of one who loved. But there was more
of it a little later.
“All the excitement that should have been shared
with you has gone back into myself. It’s waiting,
Paul ; and while it’s waiting it’s gaining strength. As
the weeks pass by, and month follows month, I’ll
go on thinking about you and promising myself a
new kind of happiness when 1 can see you once more.
And the end of waiting will be love—the love that is
lifted up and made beautiful through discipline. It
is then, my dear, that our Paul-Joyce organism will
be given a soul. We’ll provide it when we come to
each other and are together once and for all. That’s
my dream. I’m thinking of our two lives, drawing
nearer to unity.”
She had outlined her idea for their meeting at
the valley house, and went on to speak of the life
that promised to open for them beyond the first
happiness.
“I always feel that marriage can do just as much
for us as we do for marriage. It’s a way of living,
and a little more. It could be the soul and beauty
of life, I think: a strength as light and as real as
a rumor of music. This strength must come from
the best of each of us ; if it is single and lonely it
can reach nothing more than a restlessness, and a
wistful sense of all that could have been. There
must be an equal force from man and woman, and
then in truth the union is the birth of something new
and wonderful. Out of this birth will come the under-
standing and the energy that will go into the work
of the future. Your work and mine.
“I've tried to show you what I mean, and if
I’ve failed the fault is in my clumsy use of words.
But I. know that there’s an equal eagerness of love
in you that will leap out towards my thoughts, and
understand them while they’re still half-expressed. Of
course you will understand! You are in love with
me and I with you ; and it is right that this should
be so. Love tempts us to believe that things are
written in some great book of life, so that all experi-
ence is merely a fulfilment. But do not think, my
dear, that I shall always be an impossibly serious
person, wrapped in a cloudy idealism. It’s merely
that the beginning seems so important to me. Let
us make it beautiful, Paul, and the future will be
easy.”
Paul put the letter aside and stared at white
clouds which showed a sun-gilded edge across his
bedroom window. He remembered that a vague fear
had oppressed him when he first read the letter. Not
often is a man allowed so clear and complete a view
of the woman he has asked to marry him. There
is so much in the early days of intimacy that belongs
to the mere bloom of discovery. Love brings a special
illumination, and at first may show rather more than
is really there. Some of these traits and ideas are
little more than a promise ; things seen in the general
lighting up which are really foreshadowings of develop-
ment that may come in the future. That may come.
For tendencies are like delicate plants that need a
kindness of climate. Sometimes they are choked
back into darkness and silence, and there is never a
flowering ; and then it is easier to believe that the
character was not equal to its possibilities than that
it was not given the help and care it needed.
Paul had looked on Joyce as a delightful and
attractive woman. His memory was stocked with
impressions of her ; he knew her nicest points, her
manner and appearance. He could describe to him-
self her grey eyes, with their honest gaze ; the white
brow that set him thinking of fair creatures from
the essential Greece that exists only in fragments of
great poetry; and the mouth that kindness saved
from too much passion. It was equally easy to
remember things she had said and to recover the
outlook which these things indicated. She knew
how to think, and music could sway her. These
things were good, and had pleased him; and if he
had been asked if he knew the real Joyce he would
have smiled the knowing smile of those who have
caught at last a gleam of the true light of love. Of
course he knew Joyce!
But hen letter troubled him. It was impossible
not to be lifted up by her vigor of feeling into some
kind of satisfaction and gladness; for it is good and
pleasant to be loved, and a man can trace his own
virtues and attractions through all that has been
aroused in a woman of desire and loyalty. But after-
wards, when vanity had been fed, there remained
the surprise and the doubt. It meant that he had to
change sorne of his ideas about Joyce ; he had to
realise that he was receiving into his life a woman
with a very individual life of her own and ideals that
reached a little way above his head.
In the past he had looked on marriage as a
comfortable experience which nevertheless was usually
delayed by the wise. There was a ceremony and a
wedding trip and some delightful months of a bright,
new intimacy. A man would find that he had passed
through a pleasant, stimulating experience, in which
all that was sensitive in him had been stirred to a
complete activity, giving life anew glow of beauty.
That was how he saw love: a full awakening of sense,
and. through this a tendency to reach a little further
than usual through the mists of daily life.
So far he could go with Joyce. But beyond this
he was afraid to look. He knew in his heart that
man fell back from the high places, and quickly found
his feet upon the earth once more. Joyce would be
his wife, and that meant an attractive companionship
and possibly anew force in his affairs. But she had
written of anew “organism,” as if the purpose of
their marriage was to be the creating of a composite
and vaguely spiritual entity: a pale, cerebral creature,
as he saw it, that would need an atmosphere refined
beyond that of a somewhat earthy man, and that
would produce for its justification a series of dim
ideals, mounting one upon another towards a remote-
ness of etherealised love. And yet Joyce was no
pale ascetic, content with abstractions in the place
of physical experience. She was not turning away
from the flesh and blood of love ; on the contrary,
she was ready for him with arms wide open.
A promise of much pleasure had been given him,
and he began to think that his safest and wisest course
would be to treat her enthusiasm as something that
might not survive the first happiness. His knowledge
of the world could help him here. It was better to
dwell on the excitement that would soon be his: the
strange, wild happiness that was to be found in a
May night at the heart of a pine wood. He turned
back to the letter for her description of her home.
“There’s a long valley with a big lump of rock
in the centre of it, and on top of the lump is the house.
The valley is full of trees. When you stand at a
window in the house it’s like looking across a dark
sea. You get this impression most strongly when
the sun shines across the treetops. And when there’s
a wind you hear a sound of the sea, while the trees
bend and moan: a mysterious sea. full of grand move-
ments, and yet with a promise of long, beautiful
calms.
“That’s my valley, Paul. Of course, there are
paths among the trees, but not many ; and if you
don’t know your way you can lose yourself easily
enough. Most of the trees are pines, but a few groves
of ash and birch and oak are around die edge of
THE STORY UP TO NOW.
Joyce Manson has herself appointed
medical officer in a small outpost in the
Fly River district, Papua, in order that
she may make a study of tropical
diseases. There she meets Paul Burnley,
a visiting English anthropologist, whom
she promises to follow to London to
marry; and Murdoch, Resident Com-
missioner of the district, who also falls
in love with her.
Back in London Paul tells his mistress,
Lola, that he intends to end their friend-
ship and marry Joyce.


the valley. There’s only one thing in the place that
doesn’t harmonise, and I had better warn you about
it in case you are tempted to go too near. It’s a pool
that lies about a hundred yards from the house under
a high clay bank. The surface is dark and still and
rather ominous. People who live on the outside of
the valley say that it’s bottomless. Anyway, it’s
tremendously deep. They call it the Pool of Forget-
fulness.
“But you’ll be more interested in the house. It
stands on the knoll, which rises about a hundred
feet or perhaps a little more. There’s a single track
up from the valley to the front door, and that side
of the knoll slopes gently and has an easy grade for
climbers. The front door looks across the valley
at the blind end, and to have a proper view up the
length of it you must go to the library. Uncle had
glass doors built here, and when they’re open you
can step out on to a narrow ledge of grass. He
used to spend a lot of time here, and I was never
allowed to disturb him. The ledge is a mere two
feet of grass, and beyond it is a sheer drop of thirty
feet to a sudden ridge that juts from the face of
rock and slopes gently to level ground.”
She went on to describe the way she had found
her uncle sitting here one night, quite dead. But
Paul was not greatly interested in her family history,
and once again he tossed the letter aside. It was all
rather strange and puzzling, yet he was not the man
to turn from a new and exciting experience, and he
thoroughly approved of her idea for an undisturbed
meeting in the valley. His sense of the strange and
beautiful had been aroused, and he knew that when
the time came he would not be lacking in ardor. If
only there had been no Lola!
II.
Paul got into his dressing-gown and made leisurely
preparations for his bath. The morning lay empty
before him. Work was at a standstill, and he was
generally restless. Lola came near him in thought
as he watched the hot water filling his bath —nearer,
he realised with dismay, than Joyce had been able
to come.
He remembered, rather ruefully, the apparent
safety of his affair with her. But now it appeared
that their relationship had grown into something quite
new and different. Here again was a glimpse of a
third and emergent organism, a “Paul-Lola” corm
bination this time. He saw the
creature rather too clearly. It
was somewhat fat and distended,
and had been built out of the
flatteries and vanities of the last
two or three years. There were
the little things he did for her,
the little things he said: the
gentle, unmeaning remarks
about the way she looked and
the clothes she wore.
Everything that Lola did or
said that to be noticed ; every-
thing was important and worthy
of discussion. If she made an
attractive dish with her own
hands it must be praised at the
first mouthful and at the last;
if she bought him a tie it must
be observed that only she could
have shown such a proper in-
stinct for colors to tone so beau-
tifully with his suits and shirts ;
if she had been troubled by the
rudeness of a friend it was necessary to analyse the I
behavior of that friend most minutely, and discover
in her some secret core of resentment or, better still,
of jealousy. It was quite remarkable the number of
people who were jealous of Lola. So few had her
exquisite taste in clothes, for instance ; and there was
more than one woman who questioned her right to
monopolise a comparatively wealthy young man.
“They think I’m old enough to be your mother,”
she would say with the half-laugh that covered a
secret irritation. “Just imagine! How much older
am I, Paul?”
“Let me see,” he would say. “There’s a differ-
ence of three years between us, isn’t there?”
“Nonsense, you silly fellow! Now you’re going
100 far the other way, just to be nice. Let us be
honest. I’m five years older than you, and I suppose
it’s really a dreadful difference.”
Here he would have to protest that it was nothing
at all, and that she looked younger than he. Every-
body thought so. How could a woman look old
with a skin like hers?
At first this sort of thing had been easy, and even
agreeable ; for in those days he was still excited with
her. Her peculiar personal flavor had been new and
heady, and in the first months of their intimacy he
had never tired of watching and listening to her. He
had been pleased to find a woman who could stir
him so quickly without showing what he had come
to look upon as the features of a standardised woman-
hood. She was not tall and willowy , and rather
brazen. In some ways she was curiously respectable.
A lower-middle-class prudery drove her to be very
careful lest their affair become too obvious ; she had
quite a genius for making things attractively safe.
It was perhaps this combination of wildness and
safety in Lola that made Paul so completely her slave.
Her safety held her to him even when he began
to tire of her insatiable demand for attention. She was
nearing forty, but appeared to have something peren-
nial within her that would keep her skin clear and her
eyes bright when some of the younger ones were
beginning to fade. She would not betray him into
any of those awkward situations that trouble young
men with money. There would be no violent scenes
(he had imagined), no tearful accusations or entreaties
to love her as he had done in the past. He was sure
that she stood apart from the confused feeling tha
ended so many affairs and made casual love a peril
and a discomfort. And this was an impression she
had tried carefully to foster. •
“Here I am,” she would seem to say. ’‘Come
to me when you’ve finished your work or when you ye
grown tired of those smart friends of yours Come to
me and you’ll find all that you need You can be
loved and cared for, and there will be no compli-
cations.”
Under these conditions it was easy to believe
that he had been provided with the one woman his
particular temperament needed. It was only after
months, when he knew that he was in too deep tor
a sudden break, that he discovered the strength of
her hold on him.
His Papuan journey had been a relief, and in
those full days he had forgotten Lola rather easily.
A natural genius for accepting and using the special
value or beauty of the moment led him from thoughts
of her that could have been embarrassing, and allowed
him to carry himself as though free, as though he
came to his friendship with Joyce in a mood almost
virginal. He shook aside inconvenient memories, and
rose buoyantly to take the latest and most hopeful
offerings of fate. The gladness of escape was around
him like a light in those days; it brightened his eyes
and quickened his voice and drew out of him a rich-,
ness of spirits that stamped him against Joyce’s con-
sciousness with a deep impression of youth.
But at first there was no real promise of fulfil-
ment. Joyce was always just beyond him, elusive as
the delicate skies that lie above distant hills. He
was preoccupied with pursuit, and while Joyce was
still out of reach there was no wisdom in coming to
A flight of stairs fell away from the landing . and
he turned hastily.
her with a hangdog mutter of confession. It would
have broken down his strength, which lay just then
in the sureness -and untouched quality of his man-
hood. And even afterwards, if he had stayed in
Papua, he might have hesitated about telling her, for
he was no believer in the unclouded intimacy that
must be reached through an abasement of self. He
would tolerate nothing that might blunt the edges of
experience or dim the universal brightness ; and in
any case it is doubtful if at that time he was able to
understand that the opening and cloudless future could
be in any real danger from the past. Future and past
were remote from each other, separated, like solemn
and motionless clouds, by a tranquil light.
111.
Paul lay a little longer than usual in his bath
trying to rid himself of the uncomfortable sense of
Lola’s nearness which kept him from thinking joy-
fully of Joyce’s imminent arrival in England. He
had noticed before that Lola had a way of sensing
his preoccupation with anyone apart from herself.
As like as not, he thought gloomily, there would be
a message from her during the day.
It came in the late afternoon: a short note, tact-
fully worded, which invited him to call upon her that
evening. He crushed it in his hand and tossed it from
him, swearing that he would not go. But the evening
was free, and he had been troubled all day by the
conflict of thought and feeling; and in this mood a
curious fatality will sometimes draw a man towards
the woman who is the cause of his uneasiness.
She received him quietly, although it was not in
her to allow his behavior to pass without reproach.
“You ran away from me last night, Paul, as if
I were someone unclean. Are you altogether fair
to me?”
“I’m not thinking about being fair to you,” he
said with a new bluntness, arising from his fear of
the almost surgical 1 quality of her questioning. “I’m
thinking of being fair to Joyce.”
“Of course! That’s your idea of loyalty. You’ve
used me during the last three years, and now you’ve
discovered a wrinkle or two near my mouth, and
you’re always looking at me as if you saw shadows
under my eyes; and you’ve decided you need a
change.”
“My dear Lola!” he protested. “You talk as if
I suddenly made up my mind to grow tired of you
and went looking for someone to take your place.
Can’t you realise that this thing simply happened to
me? I didn’t want it to happen. I’ll even say that
if I had had some gift of vision to allow me to look
across to Papua and see Joyce waiting for me, and
beyond that all this fuss and misunderstanding, I’d
have stayed right here in London and thanked the
gods for a lucky escape. And there’s really no need
To mention your wrinkles. I haven’t noticed them,
if it will be any comfort for you to think so. And
L don’t "know anything about shadows under your
eyes. What if you do have them? I suppose you’re
as likely to suffer from ill-health as anyone else?”
She protested rather more than seemed necessary.
“Paul! You know quite well that I’m a healthy
woman! I never have a day’s illness.”
“All right,” he said wearily. “I suppose it’s
something to be proud of. But if you continue to
insist on your matchless health I’ll begin to think
there is something wrong with you. People who
talk like that are often trying to encourage them-
selves.”
She did not speak for a
moment, and he was struck by
the thought that in some ways
he knew surprisingly little about
her. He had never seen her
looking anything but well; but
he remembered times when she
had kept herself in a subdued
light and had been languid and
even irritable.
“You’re renioving the false
colors, aren’t you, Paul?”
“I suppose I am. But it’s
time we were honest, Lola. For
God’s sake, let us say good-bye
to each other while we can say
it decently.”
“No, Paul; you’re not end-
ing this quite so easily. I'm
making allowances for you.
Everything you say is cruel, but
I’ll try to forgive you. I know
you’re not yourself. A little
later you’ll be glad to come to
me and unsay everything you’ve
said. But that’s not why I sent
for you to-night. I want you
to tell me more about Joyce.
I’ve had a feeling all day that
she was going to be here a little
sooner than you’ve led me to
believe.”
He knew from past experi-
ence that her “feelings” were
not to be treated too lightly.
She was intuitive.
“I expect her at the end of
the week,” he said, believing
now that truth was his only
refuge.
A cloudy triumph mingled with the anger in her
lace.
“As I thought! You’ve been deceiving me."
“Not at all. I didn’t know myself until yesterday.
According to the shipping notices her boat should
dock on Saturday.”
“A good day for a meeting, too. Of course you'll
be down at Waterloo bright and early for the boat
train?”
“No,” he said with some firmness, “I won’t!”
She knew that this did not indicate a change of
mind.
“But surely you’ll be meeting her?”
“Of course. But in our own time and in our
own way.”
“How mysterious! You must tell me more
about it.”
“1 can’t, Lola. You’ve no right to ask these
questions. It isn’t fair to me or to anyone else.”
It was the beginning of a struggle. She led him
on through a series of questions. He was wary, know-
ing her strength, but she was all the stronger for a
new calmness. Tears and pleadings could have been
resisted. He had nerved himself to turn away from
her, and he would have welcomed a tearful outburst
as an opportunity to fling up his arms in despair and
make a speedy exit. The opportunity was not given
him, however.
“I’m not going to be silly about it,” she said,
lighting a cigarette. “But Ido think I have a right
to know something about your plans.”
“So that you can do your best to upset them! ”
“How bitterly you speak to me! My dear, I
don’t think I’ve deserved all this.”
He was silent.
“And now, I suppose, you’re going to be sullen.
I see that 1 must speak plainly. Has it ever occurred
to you, my dear Paul, that there are other sources of
(Continued on page 50.)


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
’n two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or Httle, hard or soft. ALI.
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE,
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Melbourne Fred Strikes a Twister:-
NOSEY
By CON DREW
IF you've got it into your head that all
country blokes are simple, soft-hearted
gents., forget it. There’s blokes in the
country who ain’t no more to be trusted
than an emu in a cockroach farm. Take
the chap who tried to put the twitch on
me and Melbourne Fred in Brandford,
for instance.
Me and Melbourne were travellin’ the
Queensland country towns with a boxin’
show at the time, and had been doin’
fairly good business. We pulled in at
Brandford one evenin’ just on sundown
and set up the tent on a vacant allot-
ment at the lower end of the town. We
had five slap-up boxers in our team, in-
cludin’ a lightweight who was extra
special, and the star performer, a heavy
called Sledge-hammer Keegan. Sledge
had little to commend him in the boxin’
line except a wallop that would stun a
Buenos Ayres bull, but he was a chap
you could depend upon to skittle the
come-ons.
Well, we opened up that night expectin’
to do good business. Melbourne lined
up the boys on the board outside our
tent, and introduced them to the crowd.
Then he made the usual offer of a fiver
to any gent, who could stay three rounds
with Sledge. But no one came at the
bait. Melbourne made them a bit of a
speech and tried them agen, but still he
drew a blank. With no one to give the
crowd a lead-in the show was practically
a flop. We did finally manage to entice
a few in to look at the stunts the boys
put up among themselves, but when we
counted the takings that night we seen
that we’d only just cleared expenses. It
was a bad lookout for us, as we’d hired
“You’ll do well out of it.”
the ground for a two-night stand, but
you learn to take the good with the bad
on the road.
Next mornin’ me and Melbourne are
sittin’ in the tent assassinatin’ time when
in floats a big, broad-shouldered gent, in
a new grey suit and bright tan boots.
I’d noticed him in the crowd outside the
tent during the line-up on the previous
night, and summed him up as bein’ one
of the nuts of the town. He had the air
of a bloke who has invested a few tickets
on himself and ain’t sorry he made the
purchase. The most prominent feature
on his dial was his nose, which had a bit
of a hook at the end of it. I didn’t like
the look of his eyes. They were a bit
too close together.
“Good day, gents.,” says he, amblin’
over to us. “Can I have a private word
with you?”
“You can,” says Melbourne. “There’s
only me and my partner here. What
is it?”
“Well, it’s this way,” says Nosey. “I’ve
got a reputation
here as bein’ a
fairly good
scrapper. I ain’t a
world - beater, of
course, but I can
hold me own in a
general mix - up.
What I want to do
is to put over
somethin’ that will
sort of make it
look as if I was
somethin’ extra
special.”
“Everyone has a
hobby,” says Mel-
bourne. “Go on.”
“I’m runnin’ this show.”
“Well, I thought,” says Nosey, “that if
we could arrange it so as I could stay
three rounds with that heavyweight of
yours it would give me a pretty big
boost.”
“I see,” says Melbourne. “And
where do we come in?”
“You’ll do well out of it,” says Nosey.
“When I put it around that I’m goin’ to
have a go for that fiver to-night' the
crowd will roll up strong and fill the
tent.”
“It sounds all right,” admits Mel-
bourne. “There’s nothin’ behind all
this?”
“Absolootly nothin’ but what I’ve told
you.”
“You wouldn’t try to slip one over if
our boy got sort of careless?”
“Nothin’ like that,” says Nosey. “All
I want to do is to stay the three rounds.”
“Right,” says Melbourne. “As long
as everythin’ is square and aboveboard
it’s a deal. You play fair with us and
we’ll play fair with you.”
“I’ll play fair,” says Nosey. “You
open up your show to-night and don’t let
on that we’ve ever seen one another. I’ll
be on hand with a crowd of the boys, and
when the times comes for someone to
take a glove I’ll hop up and take it.”
“And then what?” says Melbourne.
“Well, after I’ve stayed the three
rounds,” says Nosey, “you can kid to
hand me the fiver and no one will be
any the wiser. And now I’ll have to be
gettin’ away,” says he. “There’s a lot of
things I’ve got to do.”
“What do you think of him?” I asked
Melbourne when Nosey had breezed off.
“I think he’s a bloke,” says Melbourne,
“who could wrap himself round a cork-
screw, but I may be
wrong in me estimate.
If he fills the tent to-
night I’ll attend to the
rest.”
Nosey kept his
word about puttin’
the dope around, fol-
iate that afternoon a
bloke we knew named
Hansen came down
to the tent and says:
“There’s a chap up
in the town blowin’
to everyone about
what he’s goin’ to do
to that heavyweight
of yours to-night.”
“Is there?” says
“Go after him.”
Melbourne. “What’s he goin’ to do to
him.”
“He’s goin’ to have a cut for the fiver,”
laughs Hansen, “and the funniest part
about it is that he thinks he’ll stay the
three rounds.”
“There’s lots of gents, has that idea,”
says Melbourne,
“until they’ve been
in the ring about
half a minute.”
“But this bloke is
certain he’ll stay
the journey,” says
Hansen. “He bet
another chap
twenty quid he’d
be there at the
finish.”
“Oh, did he?”
says Melbourne.
“You’re sure of
that, eh?”
“Certain sure,”
says Hansen. “1
seen him make the wager.”
“Thanks,” says Melbourne. “You
needn’t tell no one that you wised me
up. Here’s a ticket for the show to-night.
You ought to see some fun. \
II £ didn’t see such a lot of fun, but he
11 got a decent seat, which was more
than most of them got that night. When
the boys lined up on the board at eight
o’clock there was a crowd of several
hundred outside the tent. You could
see that they was all keyed up to con-
cert pitch, too. If we hadn’t been in the
joke ourselves we would have sensed that
somethin’ was in the air. Everythin’
went off beautiful. Melbourne intro-
duced the boys as usual, and then he held
out a fiver. “You heard my offer here
last night,” says he. “Well, it still holds
good. There’s a fiver here for any gent,
who can stay three rounds with Sledge-
hammer Keegan. We bar no weight and
we bar no color. Is anyone game to take
him on?”
There was silence for about as long
as it takes to count a man out. Then
Nosey pushes his way to the front. “I
am,” says he, and Melbourne threw him
a glove.
You’ve seen the rush at a butchers’
picnic when the news goes round that
the keg is goin’ to be tapped? That’s
nothin’ to the stampede that crowd made
for our tent. We held them up at the
door, of course, while we eased them of
the necessary coin, but, even then, in a
quarter of an hour the tent was jamb-
full.
Nosey had brought a pair of trunks
and boxin’ boots, and he soon stripped
off and got into them. He was a well-
muscled bloke with a fighter’s chest and
legs, and he looked to
be in first-class shape.
I summed him up to
weigh about twelve
stone ten, which was
Sledge’s poundage.
Sledge didn’t take
long to get ready. He
had come in from the
line-up board dressed
in his fightin’ togs. All
he did was to pull off
a singlet and he was
ready for business.
Nosey’s pals was all
for takin’ charge of
affairs, but Melbourne
pushed his frame into
the ring. “I’m runnin’
this show,” says he.
“If any gent, here has any objections let
him step into the ring and we’ll debate
the matter.”
There was no response, and Melbourne
signed to the boxers to get ready. “You
both know the rules, and the conditions
which govern the debate,” says he. Then
he gave the signal to commence.
You could see right away that Nosey
was no mug at the game. His style was
a wee bit awkward, but he knew how to
cover up his jaw. Sledge had received
his instructions and knew exactly what
to do. He sailed in at Nosey as if he
would eat him raw, but he didn’t put
much weight behind his punches. Nosey
was cool. Why shouldn’t he be? He
thought he saw himself sailing through
three easy rounds with twenty quid at the
end of them. Sledge kept him busy
though. He was on top of him most of
the time, and sent in punches from all
angles. Nosey whipped in a thump when-
ever he saw an opening, but he wasn’t
takin’ any undue risks. There was always
a chance that our boy might forget his
lines and hit out of his turn.
After they had been boxin’ half a
minute Nosey ducked under a swing
and Sledge sprawled down on his knees.
He was up agen in a wink, but it looked
as if the fall hadn’t done his left ankle
any good. He slowed up considerable,
Unlimbered his starboard gun.
and the crowd began to cheer for Nosey.
“Go after him,” they yelled. “Go after
him.”
He was a good actor, was Sledge. In
fact, he acted so well that after a while
Nosey began to think it was time he
went in and mixed it a bit. A chance
came when Sledge had somehow got
jambed with his back agen the ropes.


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
IHE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
is
li
7 i
I i
111/! «
i i
U
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
Swan and Swan alone
GAN OFFER YOU THIS CHOICE!
'Big-fill'
i;
ss:
5^
ri«
-f/Mi \ \Vtl'•*»'«
VwVifc
s4Ct'.r «»n .«w*J
im»fc«4!<<'.i' »W%A'V\''
■■■■■«*■■•« v<7wV
«■■*»•■•»■<* **M‘'-'%\\ S’Vjv
s=k\
'Quick-fill*
TheLEVEHLESS
—onlg two half-
Lturns of the top
to fill.
The VISOFIL
extra big ink
capacity, shows
when to refill,
The VISOFIL and LEVERLESS
Swan Pens
The World's most Modern Pair
you want most in
a fountain pen, you can get in a
guaranteed-for-lifetime Swan! The
newly introduced VISOFIL gives
the features of EIG CAPACITY
and INK VISIBILITY in a pen
that you can depend on absolutely—
a sister of the already famous Lever-
less Swan which is unsurpassed for
speed and simplicity in filling. A
glance at the crystal-clear Observation
window’ in the Visofil shows when
ink is running low.
See these two fine English made
Swans at any Stationers or Jewellers!
Prices. —The new VISOFIL Swan, with clip and
mount of rolled gold, 32/6. Ladies’ Size, without
clip, nib.. LEVERLESS Swans from 111-.
Other Swans from 15/-. Blackbirds from 10/-.
Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All available in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
★
Always use Swan Ink
A. 5.36
Nosey sailed in and sent in two pile-
drivers which caught Sledge fair on the
jaw. It wasn’t in the agreement, but that
didn’t matter to Nosey. Neither did it
matter much to Sledge, for you couldn’t
have buzzed him with a coal-hammer.
In a, mix-up in the middle of the ring,
Nosey saw his chance agen. Twice he
rattled Sledge with a wallop to the chin,
and our boy began to give way. The
crowd yelled to Nosey to follow him up,
and Nosey needed no egging on. Closing
in, he let go right and left, and belted
Sledge around the ring. It was amazin’
the way Sledge caught punches on his
gloves, for he wasn’t a clever boxer.
It was great fun for Nosey, and the
crowd was on their toes. They slung
him wads of advice, but he was so in-
tent on the business on hand that it is
doubtful if he even heard them. He
was givin’ our boy some extra-hot curry
when, out of the corner of me eye, I seen
Melbourne slip Sledge the hurry-up sign.
That was the end of it, of course, but
the finish came so sudden that few in
the crowd saw the punch which let down
the curtain.
Sledge had made a stand in the middle
of the ring, and Nosey was bombardin’
him with a fusillade of punches. All
a sudden Sledge saw a chance of a sitting
shot, and unlimbered his starboard gun.
.The punch caught Nosey about three
inches below the ear, and he crumple
up like a fallen overcoat.
He wasn’t out for very long, and
when he came back from Slumber Bay
his mates helped him on with his clothes.
He must have known that he had earned
what he got, for he didn’t say a word
to Melbourne and me. The crowd was
so disappointed that they tiled out with-
out waitin’ for the rest of the show, and
Nosey went with them. It had been a
profitable night for us.
When we were puttin’ out the light, 1
says to Melbourne: “We could have man-
aged things a better way if we’d thought
of it.”
“How so?” says Melbourne.
“Instead of knockin’ Nosey out, ’ says
I, “we could have claimed half ol his
twenty quid wager and let him stay the
three rounds.”
“Bah! What’s the good of half,” says
Melbourne, “when we’ve got the lot? 1
sent a bloke up to make the wager with
him. I knew he was a twister.”
A Touch of Drama:-
By
DON EDWAROD
ROGRAMME, sir,
r* programme, pro-
gramme,” she re-
peated, with a smile lor
the men and a short,
clipped “Prog’rm, mad-
am, prog’rm,” for the
ladies.
“Programme, programme,” all day and
hall' the night ; always the same cry, “Pro-
gramme, programme”; how she hated it.
She looked across the brightly-lit vesti-
bule to the large mirror and saw her-
self there between a dark young man in
a dinner suit and two young ladies in ex-
quisite evening frocks. For this show they
had to wear ballroom dress “with the
skirts thin enough to reveal the shape of
the legs when standing before the lights at
the entrance to the stalls.” She remem-
bered the very words of the manager.
Well, it was certainly an improvement
on those pirate-chief costumes, with
great sashes, tight breeches and clumsy
earrings, they had worn during the
screening of the last picture.
Again she glanced across to the mirror
that showed her half the length of the
garish vestibule down to the ticket-boxes
and even a corner of the busy, crowded
street. This time she shared it with a
family party, mother, father and two
children, very suburban, who stood near
her, and the dozens of eager people
who passed steadily into the theatre.
There was no doubt the dress suited her,
with the low-cut neck showing her white,
shapely shoulders and her fair hair.
“Programme, sir, programme; prog’rm,
madam, prog’rm,” she intoned in a life-
less chant. /
All day she had been worrying about
Harry, and as the day wore on her
resolution had faltered. But with the
bright lights, the fashionable crowd and
that sense of a dreamy, romantic un-
reality that comes to theatre loungers just
before the evening performance, she
found herself agreeing with him.
“Programme, programme” ; if anything
was needed to influence her it was that
cry. She could hear Harry’s voice now
and see the light in his eyes as he said:
“It’ll all run to programme. Then
enough for a business and’ marriage.”
And why shouldn’t she escape from this
continual cry of “Programme, pro-
gramme” ; why shouldn’t she have free-
dom and a home? Of course, it would
all run to programme ; didn’t everything
run to programme? The show, her life,
everything.
“Programme, sir, programme,” she
said the words vehemently, and found
herself looking with eagerness at the
entrance where the people were thinning
out and where Harry would appear if he
were coming. He had seemed determined
enough last night when he met her at the
tram and discussed the plans during the
slow walk up the dingy street to her home.
All day she had consoled herself with
the thought that he was just talking as he
so often did, that he wouldn’t come.
But now such thoughts were no longer
consoling. She wanted him to come. It
was a chance, anyhow, and he had said
that the show would “run to programme."
“Prog’rm, madam?” She took the six-
pence and gazed after the stylishly-clad
figure of her customer.
She would give a lot
to get away from this,
and she would take
chances, too. But what
chance had she to
escape? There was
Harry and his talk.
Again she glanced down the
vestibule to where a few late-
comers were hurrying in, and
to where Joseph was moving fur-
tively about like a sensitive, prying rat
behind the girl in the ticket-box. If
Harry intended coming he would have
to hurry, especially if things were to run
to programme.
“Programme, sir. Yes, just about to start.
Programme, programme.” She wouldn’t
say it again to-night, and perhaps that
would be for the last time ; who knew?
Now Joseph had crossed to the other
box and was stooping there in the atti-
tude she knew so well. A car slid in
beside the pavement and a man in a dark
overcoat stepped lightly out and stood
for a few seconds on the footpath among
the scurrying people. She knew him at
once, and immediately her resolution be-
came less strong. She almost cried out:
“Harry! Don’t!” ; but that could do no
good now. So far things had run to
programme, and hadn't he said they
would when he asked her of Joseph’s
movements and the others? There was
Joseph now, keeping to his programme ;
there was Harry and here was the
chance to escape from her programmes.
She sauntered a few paces to where she
could see everything in the mirror.
She saw Harry give her one hurried
glance as he hastened across to the
ticket-box. He leant against the opening,
his arm hidden in the folds of his coat,
thrust up in a peculiar way. She saw
the girl in the box shrink back in fear
and Joseph stare in amazement. Harry’s
arm pushed forward in a gesture that was
threatening, and Joseph, stooping quickly,
sidled out of the box with the kitbag in
his hand. He held it out; in a flash
Harry had grasped it and dashed for the
car, a revolver held in his other hand.
She seemed not to have breathed while
the drama was being played in the mirror.
Then confusion took possession of the
vestibule and the street, with Joseph’s cries
of "Thief! Stop him! Thief!” muffled
by the roar of the car as, with Harry
standing on the running-board and
wrenching at the door, it shot away into
the traffic. Brakes screeched, people
began to shout, everyone stared in the
same direction, two policemen appeared
in the corner of her mirror and as sud-
denly ran out of view. Shots rang out,
two in quick succession ; then, after a
short interval, a third. .She was shivering
as if with cold as she ran with the others
to the street. Everyone seemed to be
rushing towards the corner, where a
bunch of people was swelling into a
crowd. With an alarming wail an ambu-
lance shrieked past and screeched to a
standstill on the edge of the crowd.
She realised that she was back at her
stand. A few latecomers hurried into
the theatre. One man stopped to buy a
programme and said excitedly: “Pretty
daring, eh?” Then, noticing her white
face, he added: “I suppose it frightened
you. Yes, the car got away, but they got
the chap who did it. A lucky shot; he
fell off the running-board—dead—with
the bag in his hand. Thanks.” He took
the programme and went on.
It was over, all over. And now she
seemed to be without feeling as she stood
there muttering iii a voice that sounded
strangely high-pitched. “Programme, sir,
programme, programme.”


mmm
mmm
m
may cause
them
Make sure you use the special film removing
tooth paste which removes film effectively
and safely .
Common sense says that dangerous film should be
removed and kept away regularly. But how? Many
dentifrices may claim to remove film. But are they
safe? To millions of people, Pepsodent is known as
the special film-removing tooth paste.
The simple reason for Pepsodent’s efficiency is the
use of a revolutionary new cleansing and polishing
agent. This material is unexcelled in film-removing
power. No other leading dentifrice contains it and
it is so safe that in impartial tests Pepsodent has been
proved the least abrasive . . . therefore softest —of
16 leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders.
So, if you really want naturally white teeth and
greater freedom from common mouth disorders, take
the first step now. Start removing ugly, dangerous
film daily with Pepsodent Tooth Paste.
Along with daily brushing, eat foods your dentist
would j’.dvise to promote strong, healthy teeth. And
be sure to see your dentist regularly twice a year.
MORE PEPSODENT— SAME PRICE
New processes have cut costs, and we are passing the
saving on to you. The identical time-proved Pepsodent
is ready for you, in the new larger tubes, at no increase in
price.
PEPSODENT
The Special Tooth Paste
STUBBORN STAINS
1®
BLEEDING GUMS
on
NEW
altZl
TUBE
OLD
TUBE
■
N 1 364
IN NEW LARGER TUBES—NO PRICE INCREASE
The Flesh and Blood of History:—
THE KING
V. LU CKYN BETTS
BY J.H. M. ABBOTT.
«r umberland, to wit: — Luckyn
Betts, master of the transport ship
Hercules, stands charged for that
he, the said Luckyn Betts, on the twenty-
ninth day of December, in the year of
our Lord 1801, on the high seas, in lat.
16° 46' N., with force and arms, the per-
sons hereunder named, being convicts on
board the said ship Hercules, of which
he, the said Luckyn Betts, was master,
was conveying to this port of Sydney, in
county aforesaid, from the port of Cork,
in the kingdom of Ireland, to wit, James
Byrne, William* Maher, William Leane,
Hugh Mahony, Robert Naylan, Patrick
Moore, Peter Wall, Martin Leary, John
Malone, Walter Kearns, Jeremiah Ford,
Bernard Keenan and Thomas Warren,
wilfully did shoot, or cause to be shot,
and thereby them severally did kill and
murder; and the aforesaid Luckyn
Betts stands further charged for that he,
the said Luckyn Betts, on the day and
year and on the high seas aforesaid, one
James Pooley, then in the peace of God
and our sovereign Lord the King, being
with a certain pistol which he, the said
Luckyn Betts, in his right hand then and
there held, did fortfully and feloniously
shoot, so that he, the said James Pooley,
instantly died, and him, the said Luckyn
Betts, the said James Pooley in manner
aforesaid did kill and murder, against the
peace of our Sovereign Lord the King,
his crown and dignity.
“Plea, ‘Not Guilty.’ ”
Such was the
in v o 1 ved and
somewhat re-
dundant indict-
ment which
Captain Lucklyn
Betts, comman-
der of H. M.
hired transport
Hercules, was
called upon to
answer before a
Vice - Admiralty
c . , Court held at
Sydney on the 6th of July, 1802,
T r° f u a P rece P l under the hand
and seal of his Excellency Philip Gidley
King, Esq. Captain-General and Gover-
!wr ln ? ie M and Vice ‘ Adm >ral in and
Somh Walef JeS ' y S Terri, ° ry ° £ N -
The Court consisted of Lieut.-Col.
Paterson,,of the N.S.W. Corps, President
and Judge ; John Palmer, Esq., Commis-
sary , Captain Matthew Flinders, com-
manding H.M.S. Investigator (Commis-
sioners); Lieut. Robert Fowler, of the
Investigator ; John Murray, Esq., Acting-
Lieut. of H. M. surveying vessel Lady
Nelson; Robert Campbell, Esq., mer-
chant; Mr. Alexander Stirling, master of
the Coromandel; Mr. John Robinson,
mate of the Coromandel; Mr. Thomas
Moore, master boat-builder and planter •
Richard Atkins, Esq., Registrar.
The majority of the names of the
gentlemen constituting the Court are
scattered about the present map of Aus-
tralia, or are represented in the street-
names of Sydney. As for Luckyn Betts,
he has entirely disappeared from Aus-
tralian historical records after this one
sensational entry in its pages. It is to be
presumed that, following on this lurid
experience, that discredited master-
mariner gave the country a wide berth,
for Sydney could not have had many
charms for Captain Betts after the Court
had dealt with him.
THE transports Coromandel, Hercules,
Atlas and Perseus had arrived in Port
Jackson with convicts in June, July and
August, 1802, and of the first-named and
the last Governor King had written en-
thusiastically to the Transport Commis-
sioners: “He arrived here in four
months and one day, bringing every per-
son in a state of high health, and fit for
immediate labor ; and although it appears
that the Perseus necessarily stopped at
Rio and the Cape, yet the convicts were
in as good condition as those on board
the Coromandel; nor can I omit the
great pleasure felt by myself and the
other visiting officers at the grateful
thanks expressed by the prisoners and
passengers for the kind attention and care
they had received from the masters and
surgeons, who returned an unusual quan-
tity of the articles laid in by Government
for the convicts during the voyage.”
But of the Hercules and the Atlas his
Excellency has nothing pleasant to say.
“By the surgeons’ list, and the masters’
of the Hercules and Atlas letters to me,
of which I send you a copy, you will ob-
serve the dreadful mortality that raged
on board those ships, exclusive of the
numbers killed.” (The two ships lost 127
out of 320 convicts.) “Altho’ there was
no mutiny on board the Atlas, yet in
every other respect the master of that
vessel appears as much if not more repre-
hensible than the other. The miserable
state the survivors were in on both those
ships on their arrival in this port, being
filthy beyond description, some of the
convicts lying dead with heavy irons on,
and many of them died as they were com-
ing from the ship to the hospital.”
The evidence before the Court was very
damning to Captain Betts, the most in-
fluential in this respect being that of
Captain Ralph Wilson, of the New South
Wales Corps, who had been in charge of
the military guard aboard the Hercules.
Captain Wilson related that about
half-past two on the afternoon of Decem-
ber 29, whilst the cabin passengers were
at dinner, the convicts rushed aft on to
the quarter-deck from the fore part of the
ship, and did their best to capture her.
They were resisted by the ships’ officers,
the deponent and his men, and in the
fierce hand-to-hand fighting about a
dozen of the convicts were killed. The
affray lasted for the best part of an hour,
until the quarter-deck was cleared and
the mutineers driven below. The dead
and wounded were carried aft, and about
an hour later two convicts who were out
of irons were brought on to the quarter-
deck. One of these was James Pooley.
Captain Betts, with a pistol in his hand,
spent the greater part of an hour en-
deavoring to extort a confession from
Pooley. Then he heard a shot fired, and
saw Captain Betts with a pistol in his
hand. He heard some persons say that
Captain Betts had shot the man. -
Under cross-examination by the Court,
he gave it as his opinion that from begin-
ning to end the mutiny might have
lasted an hour, and that the mutineers
had possession of the quarter-deck for
at least ten or fifteen minutes. They had
arms, and fought desperately. James
Pooley was a hardened ruffian and
deserved his fate, but the witness had
never encouraged Captain Betts to shoot
him. He thought that Pooley might
have been put in irons.
Sergeant Thomas Trotter generally
confirmed his commanding officer’s evi-
dence. He did not actually see Captain
Betts shoot' Pooley—“Captain Betts
clapped a pistol to his head several times,
and said he would shoot him, but he did
not see him do it.” It would have been
in the captain’s power to have confined
Pooley, instead of shooting him. Cor-
porals Laurence and Keogh, together
with Privates Cullingham and Carty, bore
out the sergeant’s statements.
For the defence, Mr. Aikin, chief
officer of the Hercules, said all he could
in his captain’s favor, and gave it as his
opinion that Captain Wilson entirely
approved of the shooting of Pooley, who
was undoubtedly the ringleader in the
affair. Captain Brooks, of the Atlas, said
that he “heard Captain Wilson express
his satisfaction at the general conduct
of Captain Betts during the mutiny, and
all the fault he found with Captain Betts
was his showing too much leniency to
the convicts and having too many out of
irons.”
Then the Court listened to the
prisoner’s defence, and adjourned to the
following day. When they met, Colonel
Paterson delivered judgment as follows:
“The Court, after mature deliberation,
are satisfied that a mutiny actually
existed on board the ship Hercules, of
which the prisoner, Luckyn Betts, was
master; do, therefore, acquit him of the
first count in the indictment, but find
him guilty of manslaughter on the
second, and do sentence him to pay a
fine of £5OO, to be appropriated to the
Orphan Fund of this Colony, and that
the said Luckyn Betts be imprisoned
until the fine of £5OO be paid.”
Writing to Lord Hobart, the Secretary
of State for the Colonies, a month after
Captain Betts’s trial, Governor King re-
lates the curious sequel to the affair,
whereby it would appear that James
Pooley’s ghost had no satisfaction what-
ever, so far as the master of the Hercules
was concerned.
“I have the honor,” he says, “to en-
close the proceedings of a Court of Vice-
Admiralty, held on the master of the
Hercules, for shooting a number of con-
victs on the passage, who were in the
act of mutiny, and also for shooting one
after it was alleged the mutiny had ended.
Your Lordship will observe that on the
first count the master was acquitted, and
on the second he .was found guilty of
manslaughter. The Court sentenced him
to pay a fine of £5OO to the Orphan
School, and to be imprisoned till it was
paid. As it appeared by the practice of
the Admiralty Court ‘that in cases where
it would be manslaughter at land the
jury is always directed to acquit,’ etc., I
therefore judged it advisable to give the
master, Mr. Luckyn Betts, a conditional
remission of that sentence until his
Majesty’s pleasure may be signified
thereon, for which purpose I have en-
closed his trial, together with the trial of
five seamen belonging to the Hercules
for being implicated as principals in the
mutiny on board the ship, who were ac-
quitted. Should the sentence of the
Admiralty Court be confirmed respect-
ing the fine, I respectfully hope it may
be transmitted to this Colony for the
benefit of the institution it was adjudged
to.”
THUS far have we followed the official
records relating to the unfortunate
events which cast a dark shadow over
the voyage of the Hercules to New South
The Quick and the Dead.
The summer suns shall warm them to
A swift and shining mirth.
The winds of spring shall light for
them
Green candles on the earth.
Autumn shall spread a bed of gold
And russet leaves, and they shall lie
A little space, and dream of spring,
Not knowing it has passed them by.
But them the earth has cradled home
Shall know nor light nor mirth,
But only rest for ever in
The quiet heart of the earth.
The quick-—they watch the seasons go
With secret, poignant dread;
But spring’s green urge will bring no
more
Pain to the quiet dead.
M.L.
E. MARY CURNEY.
Flowering Orchard .
These are \ the sails of lovely ships
That talie Time’s wave on bloomy wing,
Flung forward when September slips
The leash of the impatient Spring;
For where but yesterday the tree
Clothed nakedness with beads of rain,
The blossoms toss tempestuously
Again.
In multitudinous flutterings
The sheathed and silken buds unclose,
And every spray is set with wings
Of fragile snow and frailest rose
And every gnarled bough puts out
White plumes, and in the air’s embrace
Sheds light and lovely snows about
The place.
Above the bordering furrows now,
Against the gully’s sober grey,
Spring reconstructs, with flower and bough,
Her mystic yearly miracle play.
So, worshipping, I seem to see
Enshrined against the hill’s green bosom
Divinity in an orchard tree
In blossom.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DAKZIEL.


mi
m
At your request zee shall be
pleased to forzvard folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
to
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled. . . . .
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
A Silent Servant
mm
mm
mmm
mmm
iwn ?Al?f VJ
IVV?Z f fIVA\ 1V
YOUR cheque book is a silent servant,
always ready to serve you in your
financial affairs. It enables you, with the
necessary credit
—to write a cheque anywhere —at home, shop
or office.
—to write a cheque any time —during or out-
side business hours.
—to send money anywhere—safely and
conveniently.
—to have a receipt at your bank in the form
of a cancelled cheque, endorsed by the
payee if drawn "to order."
—to obtain an accurate statement of your
account at regular intervals.
—to obtain cash when you want it.
-—to keep your balance safely deposited until
you need it.
Cheque accounts are opened at all branches
of this Bank.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Sydney Branch: 350 GEORGE ST. (opp. Wynyard St.),
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President)
H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS
Wales, but there yet remains something
to be told which has not been put on
record.
In the Dog and Duck Tavern in Ser-
geant-Major’s-row, one of the earlier
names of Sydney’s main thoroughfaie,
leading from the western side of the
Cove to the Brickfields, and continuing
onwards thence as the Parramatta-road,
we find those two hardy mariners, Cap-
tain Richard Brooks, of the Atlas, and
Captain Luckyn Betts, of the Hercules,
taking their ease in a private room
behind the tap over a bottle of good
Jamaica rum, a jar of tobacco, and long
churchwarden pipes. It was a final
and farewell meeting ere Captain Betts
took his ship to sea on the morrow
August 10 —in ballast, bound for the
coast of China.
The dingy little room, with its single
paneless window looking out on to Host
Moriarty’s vegetable garden at the back
of the house, was a quiet place where
the two old comrades might exchange
confidences in complete security from
any intrusion by the myrmidons of their
joint enemy, Philip Gidley King, Esq.,
the Governor of the Territory. Here they
might mutually express all the abhor-
rence they felt for that interfering,
officious and detestable post-captain of
the Royal Navy. And they had solemnly
drunk destruction and damnation to the
gentleman in question, each of them ex-
pressing a pious hope that his days on
earth might speedily terminate and the
discomforts which would inevitably be
his in the world to come be prolonged
through several eternities.
“Well, Lucky, me lad, so that damned
old granny has thought fit to let ye
loose, has he? Them fellies an’ their
five ’unner’ pound—it makes me blood
boil for to think o’ th’ way that there
Coort wanted for to treat a good man.
It fair does! ”
“No thanks to Cap’n King, Dick, old
boy. He was bound be th’ rules of th’
Admiralty—told me so himself. ‘Ye’re
a disgrace to the mercantile marine,’ he
says, ‘and I wish ’twere in my power
to punish ye as ye desarve. I hope with
all my he'art,’ says Cap’n King, ‘that th’
Court’s sentence will be upheld at home.
You’re a dam’ cold-blooded assassin,’ he
says. ‘Ye desarve th’ cat-o’-nine-tails,’
he says, ‘if not th’ hangman’s rope. Get
out o’ me sight, an’ call y’self Cap’n
Lucky Betts, instead o’ Luckyn.’
’Twas all I could do, I tell ye, Dick
Brooks, for to keep me fist out of his
damnable red face. Cold-blooded assassin,
indeed! Me, Luckyn Betts —to be talked
to as if I was a common murd’rer!”
“ ’Twas hard, Lucky, old boy—damned
hard. But tell me —why did ye shoot th’
fellie? What was th’ real strong o’t?
Mebbe th’ scum asked for itI—but 1 —but ’twas
a careless thing to do, I must say. Lord,
if y’d had th’ trouble I had wit’ that there
Surgeon Jamison aboard the Atlas before
we got to Rio, ye might ha’ felt mur-
d’rous. But this man Pooley, he couldn’t
do no more harm, and they’d ha’
stretched his neck for him when he got
here. Ye on’y had to wait a bit. What
for did ye want to go an’ blow th’
beggar’s brains out? I must say, Lucky,
you was askin’ for trouble.”
Captain Betts rose from his seat and
went to the door, which he opened
cautiously and quietly, taking a swift
glance round the empty taproom
adjoining. Then he poked his head
through the open window and made a
careful survey of the vegetable garden
outside. When he resumed his seat he
filled and drained a pewter mug of
Jamaica as though he felt the need of
some powerful stimulant. He stuffed his
pipe with tobacco, lit it with a flint and
steel, and puffed silently at it for a while
before he spoke, his companion regard-
ing his movements with solemn sym-
pathy.
“Let’s have it,” repeated Captain
Brooks. “ ’Twill ease y’r mind —an’ ye
know I’m not one what talks.”
“I know that, Dick. We’ve always
stuck together, you an’ me. I’ll let ye
know th’ strength of it. I had to shoot
th’ fellie—just had to.”
“Had to!”
Aye. There was no help for it. ’Twas
a God-given chance, and if I’d not taken
it I d ha’ been a-flyin’ in th’ face o’
Providence.”
Well, then, an’ how was that, Lucky?”
This man Pooley, he was an old ac-
quaintance o’ mine. I knew him when
w^ s a revenue officer at Queenstown,
and I was mate o’ one of Reeves and
Green s ships, tradin’ to th’ Guinea coast.
He got put out of his position for takin’
br *r e js 0r being suspected of takin’ ’em,
which was much th’ same thing. But he
\vasn t pushed out before he’d made quite
a pretty little pile an’ done very well in-
deed. So he opens a public house in
Cork—th’ Freemans Arms —an’ bein’
well up in th’ matter o’ revenue dodgin’
wi’ regard to th’ spirits he sold, Mr.
James Pooley was pretty successful as a
licensed victualler. I was often there,
and in those days we weren’t bad friends.
He’d a good side-line in a gen’ral
smugglin’ business, an’ I was often able
to help him in his little deals. Then he
got married, an’ that was how we fell
foul o’ one another.
“She was a gal from Liverpool—
name o’ Sarah Budd —an’ I’d never seen
her afore she became Mrs. Pooley. But
she hadn’t been Mrs. Pooley six months
when, she an’ me, we found out she’d
made a mistake in her matteramonial
venture. Th’ man she reckoned she ought
to ha’ married was by th’ name o’
Luckyn Betts, newly appointed master
o’ th’ Hercules. An’ 1 agreed wi’ her.
There was no mistaking our feelings for
one another an’ what we felt about James
Pooley.”
“You was unanimous-like about that
—Mr. Pooley was a nuisance?”
“That’s how it was, Dick. He was
more’n a nuisance—he was an obstacle to
all that was right an’ proper between
Sally an’ me. A very serious obstacle,
that had to be removed.”
“And was he?”
“He was. A clever one was Sally—
clever as she was good-lookin’. ’Twas
just after th’ rebellion o’ ’9B had been
flattened out, an’ Gov’ment was lookin’
this way an’ that for them as might ha’
been suspected o’ disaffection. It was
our chance, an’ Sally wasn’t slow to take
it. A whisper here an’ there in th’ right
ears, an’ a little documentary evidence,
which she was clever enough to ready up,
an’ Mr. James Pooley finds himself, like
a lot of others, in Queer-street.
<<|T didn’t need any real evidence to
* get a man into trouble in Ireland at
that time. Th’ merest tale-telling would
do it for him. He only had to be sus-
pected. It wasn’t even necessary for to
prove anything against him. A simple
hint would do th’ trick. Th’ Gov’ment
was anxious to get all out o’ th’ country
who might possibly have any sympathy
with th’ Croppies.
“Pooley had a cousin who’d been with
Gen’ral Holt, an’ Sally had no trouble
at all in arranging for th’ fellow to come
and hide in their house. Once she had
him there, the rest was easy. Th’ sojers
came in th’ night an’ took charge o’
Pooley’s cousin, an’ took charge o’
Pooley, too. It was as simple as tyin’ a
reef-knot. Mr. James Pooley and his re-
bellious cousin, they was put through th’
mill quick an’ lively, and both of ’em’s
cast for Botany Bay. Th’ British Gov’-
ment didn’t go in for any red-tape in
Ireland when they set about straightenin’
things up. They jest took them they
thought might be dangerous an’ shipped
’em overseas. Sometimes they got a trial,
an’ sometimes they didn’t.
“At any rate, when my ship was taken
up by th’ Board o’ Transport, and is
sent' round to Queenstown for her cargo
of lags, James Pooley’s one o’ those that’s
marched aboard —and, queer and all it is,
I’d no notion whatever he was aboard
th’ ship at all. Not until the mutiny
broke out —not until, and that’s a fact,
it was all over.”
“Th’ devil you didn’t!”
“ ’Tis so, Dick. Ye could ha’ knocked
me over with a feather when they
brought him and the other fellie on deck.
.Why I never noticed him in the daily
musters I don’t know—but I didn’t. Yet
he was there all th’ time, and must ha’
known me well enough. No doubt he’d
th’ mutiny planned, and if it had suc-
ceeded —well, Luckyn Betts would ha’
been food for sharks a long time before
now. That all came across my mind
when I recognised him on the quarter-
deck, with th’ sojers gripping his arms,
and him a-lookin’ at me like as if he
recognised his situation to th’ full.”
“It must ha’ startled ye, Lucky —it
must ha’ give ye a rare turn! ”
“It did that. For a little while I didn’t
know what to do about it—an’ then I
made up me mind. I blackguarded him,
and tried to provoke him all I could —
but he stood there starin’ at me with
mortal fear in his eyes—and well 1 know
he guessed what was coming to him.
Once he spoke, and only once. ‘I see
it all, Betts,’ he says, ‘but ye’ve no call
for to kill me. I’m as good as dead
already. They’ll hang me when we get
to Sydney Town. There’s no need for
ye to shoot. I beg ye’ll not do it. I’d
like to write to Sarah, and make me will,’
he says. ‘Have ye made no will?’ I
asked him. ‘No,’ he says. ‘Then that
settles it,’. I tell him. ‘Your estate’ll go
to Sally.’ ‘I suppose so,’ he says, re-
signed-like. He never spoke again.”
“And then ye shot him?”
“Not at once. Somehow, I couldn t
do it. So I blackguarded him again, all
th’ time thinkin’ how well th’ Freeman s
Arms would do for Sally and me. But
’twas nigh a good half-hour before I
could work meself up to do th’ trick.
But at last I done it.”
Captain Brooks heaved his bulky body
out of his chair, and stood facing his
brother seaman. He stretched a great
paw across the greasy table and seized
the other’s, hand, which he wrung
heartily. Then he sat down again,
poured rum into his own and his com-
panion’s mugs, and raised his in a toast.
“Lucky, me friend,” he said, “ye’re a
true man! Ye done right. ’Tis proud
I am to have y’r acquaintance. I drinks
to ye—and I drinks hearty. Here’s to
th’ good fortin o’ th’ Freeman’s Arms.
All’s well that ends well, an’ long life an’
prosperity to ye. Ye done as I’d ha'
done meself, an’ so would everyone who
calls himself a man.”
“Dick,” said Captain Betts, “I vow
ye’re too kind. 1 on’y did me dooty
me dooty by Sally an’ meself.”


■
hi
S'i ;:
Wmm
PETTY'S at SYDNEY
People stay at Petty's when they visit Sydney.
You, too, would like Petty's for its quiet com-
fort. tho perfect service, excellent cuisine and
moderate tariff. Room and Breakfast from 11/6.
Inclusive, 18/-. Wire or write for reservations.
PETTY'S
HOTEL York St. Sydney.
EDWARD YOUNGS,
( Manager.
Funds for
travel in Japan
s
4
Whether in Japan, Canada, England, France or
whatever country your travels may take you, the services
of the National Bank are available. Through its letter of
Credit you may obtain money (up to a pre-arranged sum)
in varying amounts to meet your requirements in any
country. You are assured, too, of receiving full value
in British or Foreign money at current rates of
exchange. Assistance and information are also given
in regard to Bookings, Reservations, Passports, Income-
Tax Clearances, etc.
NATIONAL BANK
<JjUmiecL
mmm
Branches Throughout Australia
18/12/36
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany
Vike: Seems to be overloaded with moral.
. ...M.D.: Pretty enough, but how thin!....
L.G.: It ripples along without getting to any
definite goal. .D.8.0’C.: Not much of a snake
story E.E.W.: Try some subject that hasn’t
been worn so threadbare as “The Pioneers.”
.. ..L.G.P.: We can’t trace “The Road.” If
there were stamps with it it went back. You
will be quite safe in trying it elsewhere....
R.G.W.: “Recollection” came the nearer
A.S.A.: “The Bagman” passed on along the
dusty track G.T.A.: Not a bad ending, but
the tale is a trifle too fantastic.. . .D. 8.:
Commendable optimism in indifferent verse.
H.C.B.: One verse, if only for the sake of
a beverage that seldom stirs bush bards to
song:
When Oxley, Stuart, Sturt and Ilume
Opened up new tracks,
" here only barest needs found room,
Tea was in their packs.
And Mrs. Gunn, the authoress,
In Northern Territ’ry
Writes that bushmen there confess
Their addiction to tea.
-. .J.K.E.: As you suggest, it is far too long
lor us. Theme and treatment show merit,
though the prevailing note echoes “The
Ballad of Reading Gaol.” Doubt whether
you could place it in this country.
Cannot send detailed criticisms by mail to any
contributor—.M.R.: It swings along cheerily,
but the magpie and the kookaburra are levied
on so often L.D.O’M.: Tuneful enough,
but the tune is a very old one E.S.: Quite
a good sea chanty if the vogue for such hadn’t
laded.—C.C.: Scarcely conceivable that a
convict would jeopardise his life over a red
rose.—Senex: No niche to fit that article;
it should interest a daily E.S.P.: Back-
chat witty, but sketch unsuitable N.J.C.F.:
Not badly done E.S.: Contains some
shrewd observation, but doesn’t quite make it.
. ...C.P.: Prettily written, but the plot
is wobbly N. 8.: Satirical sketch like
lhat has to be worked out better and to
be kept sizzling—a difficult task W.G.G.:
All three miss, being neither bad nor good
A. 8.: Style good, but the psychic hinge on
which it swings has gone rusty J.M.:
“Avaunt, Sir Gaspard,” and Sir Gaspard has
duly avaunted 0.K.C.: Theme is far too
slender, and your jewellery prices are astray.
.... Rodd Leigh: Written melodramatically
H.E.C.: Couldn’t raise a laugh over the mules.
.... Smack: Muddled....H.l.: Not interested
in American magazine sweat factories J.G.:
That train journey was doubtless very pleasant
to you, but would hold no interest for readers.
D.W.: Dream yarns are a drug on the
market.... C. J.C.: Plot not strong enough
H.E.C.: Glimpses of good humor, but not
quite up, and we like Australian or M.L. set-
lings E.M..T.: Nicely, written, but that sort
of sketch must be 100 p.c. satire—yours is a
>O-50 mixture of satire and seriousness....
P.W.8.: Stretches coincidence too far V.R.:
“Yellow Rose” too purple W.N.L,: Try
putting the same neat word : spinning into a
plot R. 1.: With that “Religious Romance”
you’d have all the minor canons round the
place blowing us up E.M.: Interesting, but
more suitable for magazine section of a daily.
... A.C.: Well done, but too story-bookish
for us; try it elsewhere W.C.: Don’t like
T3 1^^ n o mg- Aa K * L,S ‘ : Much to ° thin
E.M.G.S.: Off our beat H.E.F.: Mother
about to die murders insane daughter. And
a , U - i?, 800 , w °rds!... .Z.V.W.: “No Handker-
chiet and “Wasted Effort”; you’re right....
D.W.: And you, too, with your “Misplaced
Enthusiasm”....G.S.C.: Took one; the others
dont appeal....M.A.: Cut, it might do lor
Smoke-oh”... .C.S.: Not up, but keep at it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.T.: Put in five years’ hard study before
renewing your bombardment of editors
A.R.M.: Linework too thin and indecisive for
reproduction.... H.P.: Ruined by ugly, oblique
strokes and a weatherbeaten gag WJ.:
Caricature bears no resemblance to the sub-
ject R.G.: Still wondering what poster-
sized effort crammed with microscopic figures
is all about D.M.C.: It might be a foot-
ball scrum, but it looks more like a lopsided
anthill F.M.: Translations of gags from
foreign papers are not wanted; neither are
drawings executed in faint pencil C.B.:
Promising student’s work—let the picture tell
the-story where possible D.J.: Not sure
whether you favor a low or a high tariff, but
you are no artist M.W.K.: Horse might be
a bolster suspended on four potsticks, and the
gag is a stray from old Bulletin files
N.N.: Hackneyed desert-island joke and draw-
ing of scant merit F.B.S.: No handout for
the tramp with huge head and hands like
boxing gloves... .A.M.H.: Well, at least you
are helping to keep paper- and ink-makers
going.. . .S.N.: Sketch of bishop in plus-fours
grumbling at the boiled mutton regretfully de-
clined E.P.: No good P.S.: Pictorial
summary of the Chinese-Japanese dispute is
as confusing as it is badly drawn.... .A.C.: It
should never have been allowed to leave home.
W.W.M.: The table looks right, but the
people seated round it don’t G.C.F.Get
gayer gags, and make drawings less wooden.
I.R.L.: You’re a faintly waggish member
of the hit-and-miss school....B.B.: Why use
Chinese white to gain those effects when leav-
ing the paper bare would serve as well?
H.M.: Cartoons should not need lengthy ex-
planations .... D.W.: Can offer no absolution
for your many artistic sins W.P.: A mere
abusive contradiction doesn’t make an amus-
ing retort.
From “Bull-ant Bill”: —
Old Joe holds strong views concerning the
alleged secrecy of the ballot in Queensland.
Ever since he voted in error for the Labor can-
didate at the last State elections, Joe has been
receiving political literature of strongly Labor
flavor. The last was an impassioned denuncia-
tion of road transport, with a picture of the
Minister “for” Transport on the cover.
“Secret!” growled Joe. “Bloke wot give me
the paper wrote down the number against me
name in the roll.” It was suggested that he
had sealed the number down before he put
the ballot-paper in the box. “Yes,” said the
old chap. “But ’oo’s to know that them
flamin’ cows don’t read the number through
the paper with one of them radium things
like doctors use for lookin’ at y’r insides!”
SECOND YEAR’S ENTRIES FOR THE S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Following are the titles of MSS. and pen-names of authors competing for the second year’s award of the Prize:—
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Advance Australia Captain Bligh
After Harvest Aarons
Alice Sees It Through Aarons
Amathea Gidyea Pod
And Such Is Life Nora Wilson
A’ Rovin’ L. Low
Au Revoir Henry Schent
Australia Felix William Bacon
Australian Highways Nullah-Nullah
Australian Short Story, The Clerk of Oxenford
Awakening, The Cyrano
Between the Two Dark Strokes .... Shandra
Beyond the Borderline Liam Mellowes
Black Glory Sylvia Lake
Blenkinsop Ars Et Labor
Blue Girdle, The January Brent
Bluey, the Fighting Missionary Gaza
Bottom Rung, The Arrakim
Bound for Callao Rastus
Brave Days , Sydney Street
Burnt Bridges Arson
Bush Way, The Scaevola
Cage, The Qui-Est-Ne
Canberra Scene Kanbery
Cave Girl Marjorie Daw
Chameleon Brian Philby
Clouded Sky, The Watt T’ Dicken
Clouds Pass By, The Raven
Clunally Promise Brian Philby
Colonial Experience Ora B.
Colonial Pines Windlust
Comical Kitty The Serpent
Contraband Rosser
Cooinoo Sydney Street
Cora Laine Tom Mann
Coree Grey Mist
Coward. The Thespis Two
Curry and Rice Hakeema
Curtain’s Up Nomdee
Day Begins, A Jupiter
Day Is Passing, The Freckleface
Dead Hand, The Fifty-Five
Dead Mans Sawmill Cynara
Deal of Business, A Burraga
Dear 40 Corinth
Destination Unknown Nereus
Dickie Robbie
Dinkum Aussies Trench Mortar
Discard Mercurio
Doctors’ Mercy Page Ninety-Nine
Dream of Love, A Qui-Est-Ne
Drifting Sands Isabel Stuart
Driftwood Brusher
Dust and Sun Lesley Powis
Earnest Spirit Julianna Cecil
Edge, The Ganesh
Fggs Selvvyn Ross
Endless Wanderer
Enduring Earth, The Puck
Enemy Within, The Henry Schent
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Exile Salyna
Eye of the Owl, The Lima
Famous Women in Indian History ... Munshi
Fern, Veldt and Flanders .... Digger Fernleaf
Fiddler’s Luck Denham Flinders
Filthy Lucre William Wagstaffe
Flotsam Capt. Cuttle
Flower of the Valley Banksia
Folly of Class Distinction ... Josephine West
Frame, The Karl Davidson
From a Far Island An Islander
From Possum Gully Cross Stitch
From the Beginning G.N.I.
Frustration Sky Blue
Future of Australia, The Blackwash
Gallant Gold Edmund Westering
Gardener of Eden Mark Tyme
Gentle Anarchist, The Ode
Glory Farewell Evelyn Verdon
Goblin Gold M. Harvey
Gold La Mascotte
Golden Crucifix, The Cocos
Gorse, Tussock and Ti-Tree . . Zealandia Dawn
Grist Story
Half of Music, The Louise
Happy Prodigal Marc George
Hargrave, Lawrence Nensdaim
Harmony Must Take Shape Touchstone
He Cheated the Law Excelsior
Heart of Blue Diamond, The James Westwood
Heart of the World, The Lleyah
Her Home Comment
Her Mind, Her Soul, Her Life Englisha
High Stakes Lester Young
His Family Loyalty
Historical Distortions Brityan Kaust
/ Saw the New Moon Endymion
I Sold My Horses Sharphedin
Imila Julian Mark
In Canvas Town A.D.B.
In Terms Humane Paul Pax
In White Raiment Vella Lavella
Isle of Fortune, The Athos
Joan of Arc Sydney Street
Johnson’s Mates Kaloola
Just a Bushman Gaza
Kaleidoscope Don Quixote
Kelly for Sure, A Murdlanti
Kirami Aquarius
Kooloonong John Erlich
Lame Hands C. M. Weir
Lane, William Davrea
Lanes of Swan Hill Goonimur
Legacy Northener
Let Us Pray Ryot
Let’s Go L. C. Gordon
Life. Fun and Frolic Old Bill
Life’s Fitful Fever Harold Fargher
Links Invisible Ninebar
Loot Nattai •
title. nom de plume.
Lost Inheritance, The T.E.M.
Love, Life and Laughter Tommy Johns
Madonna of the Wilderness Gemini
Maiden Lady is Revived, A Antic Hay
Man Changes, A Yarri
Man Next Door, The L.M.
Maron, the Ethiopan Sydney Street
Mass Production Wedding, The .... Pendente
Mateslup Ashton
Melody in Dream Max
Melody of Life, A Avalon
Merry-go-round Bolts, The Wilt Holmes
Michael Takes a Hand Suss
Miss Smith Jayess
Mists Koala
Moon Maiden, The Sunsphere
Moona Bani Geoffrey Dorn
Moonshine Jacques
Mr. Raldeper Looks Back Essaysent
Mrs. Pommie Mirren Angus
Murder in Phillip Street Wyvern
Murrumbigie Tagys
Neighbourly Intercourse Forluna
Neighbours ..... Dunkle
Occult, The Jon O’Day
Of Such As These M.M.C.
Old Maids’ Boy, The Mimosa
Old Man, The Boori
Orby and I Dr. Hugh Menthol
Orby, Not I Dr. Hugh Menthol
Other Mrs. Wilson, The Billy Boy
Other Side of the Door, The .. Lawrence Zeal
Out of the Garden Rosker Nichol
Outback After Gold Milholm
Outcast, The Cadmus
Pampered Morning, The ... Ithoda Thompson
Pasquinade Oliver Hughes
Paths That Wind Sou’Wester
Personal Effects F. L. Trench
Pharming . . Sea Ran
Plays From the Hills . . . Adelaide Dean Roper
Plus Timothy John Max
Poems in Prose Tom Snout
Prelude to Sorrow Marcus Blake
Priceless Heritage, A Josephine West
Pride of the Morning Toni Warne
Problem in Instalments, A .. St. John Bingham
Query Westerner
Quest, The Luis De Belmonte
Rainmaker, The Snakeproof
Red Warrigal John Henry
Reminiscences of a Rambler .. Mont Vincent
Restitution L. Moreton
Revolt Aifa
Ring in the New Billy Boy
Robert the Robot lon
Rock, The Sydney Street
Romance of Bill and Josie, The
Dorrita Hume
Rover’s Yarn, A Jt>n O’Day
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Rubicon Outlaws Radio
Second Childishness Mrs. Gummidge
Second Choice Elizabeth Drysdale
Sedan Murder Mystery Lightening
Shadow Under Motley Bordaeon
Shadows on the Screen
An Australian Military Chaplain
Shakespere Calling, Listen . A.I.M.
Shining Furrow Sagittarius
Side Street Mary Stewart
Silent Enemy, The The Serpent
Sins of the Father Billy Boy
So Great a Lover Spero
Solitary River Baron von Scramm
Sonlight and Moonshine Vici
Soul of Australia, The Agem
Spider’s Web, The Eyad
Stolen Destroyer, The lan Markham
Strange Shores Wun ov Mene
Strange Solitude Neville Heath
Stream of Years, The A. Marmaduke
Struggles Omikron
Sunshine Valley Outback
Tablet of Heaven, The .... Matabudi Makaki
Taint, The Jasper K. Littleton
Tapestry Magpie
That’s That A.R.
That’s My Experience Swastika
Through Sightless Eyes Gum Nut
Timebelts Ernest Eben
Tinker Tailor Lawrence Zeal
Towards the Dawn Helena
Transplanted Viola
True Patriots All Janannic
Trumps to Frances Chunjoberrie
Two Evils Jack Roland
Two Stories of the Nor’-West Wiero
Uncle George Clovis
Undercurrents Wilga
Unfortunate Archibalds, The Pejar
Valley of Lagoons, The Jacaranda
Valley of the Lost Scribbler
Venture Gambler
Viceroy of Whiteland, The Nunquam Die Mori
Voluble Mrs. Tregear Aaron
Waltham’s Adventures Wiles
Wandering Sheep Wanderer
Wanton, The A.H.B.
We Journey On Neville Heath
What People Want The Wanderer
What Phobia Nitchevo
Where Angels Daniel Dopeman
Where Did They Go Aquarius
Where Maori Trod Turanganui
Where No Wood Is John D’Alder
White Feather, The Purple and Green
White Man’s Magic Warrigal
Wimmera Jeremiah
With Garlands Drest S.T.O.
Worn Gallantly Le Chat Noir


Take
your Doctor's
advice— ■
He recom-
mends them
HUDSON'S
"EUMENTHOL" k
JUJUBES
Sold by all
chemists
and stores
6d. & 1/6 tin
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; AV. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and t'7
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. AVales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers. , ' .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. , . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
uust be confined to one subject. .
The rieht of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to''Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (29), nine years’ exp. of fruit-
growing under irrigation at Government
orchard, certified pruner of trees and vines,
seeks position of trust. —1838.
To buy small horse-drawn caravan in good
condition. Sydney advertiser. —1813.
Words of humorous poem “Cats on the
R00f.”—1909.
Words of poem “The Crow,” beginning:
“t ain’t a hard man, strike me blind,”
The bushman said to me.
—lB6B.
Words of poem “When the Jim Jams Nest
Again.”—lB7l.
Information Sought.
(1) Who gave George-street, Sydney, its
name, and was it always known by that name ?
(2) How did Spring and Bridge streets get their
names ? —1833.
(1) Governor Macquarie gave it the title
in 1810 in honor of George 111. It was first
known as Sergeant-major’s-row or Spring-row,
and later as High-street. (2) Spring-street gets
its name from a spring fountain which stood
opposite the northern end of O’Connell-street,
and was in use for nearly a century. Bridge-
street crossed the old Tank Stream near Pitt-
street by a log bridge placed there by Governor
Phillip. This bridge was replaced by one of
stone.
* * * *
Which is the most scientific mental game,
draughts or chess, and which game has the
most combinations? —1817.
Chess holds pride of place as an intellectual
pastime, there being six sorts of men, each
with a different method of movement, while in
draughts there is only one variety of piece, with
one movement. As to combinations, by which
presumably you mean possible variations of
play, these in both draughts and chess are to
all intents and purposes infinitely great, but
there are more variations possible in the first
six or seven moves of a chess game than in
any complete game of draughts. At the same
time it is fair to say that the possibilities even
of draughts have not yet been thoroughly ex-
plored.
* * *
What are the performances of Harold Gim-
blett, the English cricketer? —1934.
Gimblett played in 16 matches with Somer-
set last season, had 28 innings, 2 n. 0., 472
runs, 123 highest score, average 18.15; and
took 8 wickets for 272 runs, average
34. He scored 123 against Essex in his first
match, the first 100 of which was hit
up in 63 minutes and won him the £lOO
Lawrence Trophy for the fastest century of
the year; 53 v. Middlesex in the next match;
but injury left him out of cricket for a month,
after which he never regained top form.
Against South Africa he scored 10 and 0 and
took 1 for 58.
* * v *
In poker 1 have lately heard it mentioned that
only an ace-high routine flush beats four of a
kind. Is this so ? —1764.
No. A routine flush of any sort is superior
to fours of any sort.
* * *
Naval strength of Great Britain, United
States, Japan, France, Italy, Russia and Ger-
many ? —1535.
As at February 1, 1935, the effective com-
parable strength was as follows: Battleships,
Britain 12, U.S.A. 15, Japan 9, France 9, Italy
4, Russia 4, Germany 6; battlecruisers, Britain
3; cruisers, Britain 50, U.S.A. 26, Japan 31,
France 17, Italy 24, Germany 7; aircraft
carriers, Britain 8, U.S.A. 4, Japan 6, France
2, Italy 1; flotilla leaders and destroyers, Britain
161, U.S.A. 227, Japan 101, France 70, Italy
94, Russia 19, Germany 16; submarines,
Britain 51, U.S.A. 84, Japan 57, France 96,
Italy 59, Russia 23.
♦ * * *
What were the relative amounts of expendi-
ture on armaments by Britain and Germany
during the years 1912, 1913, 1914 and 1915 ?
1733.
For 1911-12 Britain’s expenditure on the
army was £27,690,000, for 1912-13 £27,860,000,
1913-14 £28,220,000 and 1914-15 £51,550,000.
Navy expenditure 1911-12 totalled £44,392,500,
for 1912-13 £44,085,400, 1913-14 £48,809,300
and 1914-15 £51,550,000. Air force expendi-
ture is included in the army figures. Votes
of credit for defence from August, 1914, to
February, 1916, totalled £2,082,000,000, of which
amount £300,000,000 represented the first vote
of credit for 1916. Germany’s expenditure on de-
fence services over the same period, commenc-
ing with the year beginning April 1, 1911, was,
for the army, 1911 £40,814,985,1912 £47,263,435,
1913 £73,833,215; for the navy, 1911
£22,901,685, 1912 £23,521,835 and 1913
£24,012,695, while of the total extraordinary
expenditure of 1914-15 £500,000,000 was for the
war.
* * * *
Is the story of Flora Macdonald and Bonnie
Prince Charlie authentic ? What is it in brief,
and where could l obtain an accurate account ?
1689.
Yes. After Charles’s forces were defeated
at Culloden early in 1746, Flora Macdonald,
not herself a Jacobite, assisted his escape, dis-
guised as her Irish maid, from Benbecula to
Skye, and thence to Portree. In 1750 she
married a son of Macdonald of Kingsburgh,
and in 1774 emigrated with her husband to
North Carolina. On the outbreak of the War
of Independence her husband became a
brigadier-general in the British forces, her five
sons also being officers; and, her husband being
taken prisoner, she returned to Scotland in
1779, sustaining injury during the voyage
through a fight with a French privateer. On
being rejoined by her husband, they resettled
at Kingsburgh, where she died March 5,
1790. Most encyclopiedias give a fairly lull
account, or see Flora Macdonald and Prince
Charles, by Rev. Alexander MacGregor, or
Flora Macdonald in Uist, by W. Jolly.
* * * *
(1) What was the relationship between the
late Queen Alexandra, wife of Edward VII.,
and King Christian IX. of Denmark? (2)
Who was the father of Queen Mary, also her
paternal grandfather, and what relation, if any,
is Queen Mary to the King of Wiirtemberg
who ruled that State in the year 1854 ?—1768.
(1) She was his eldest daughter. (2) Queen
Mary’s father was Charles Louis Alexander,
Prince and Duke of Teck, son of Duke Alex-
ander of Wiirtemberg. King William I. of
Wiirtemberg was Duke Alexander’s uncle.
* * *
What are the ritual and order of service for
the service in Martin-place, Sydney, on Armis-
tice Day? —l329.
10.30 a.m., flags lowered half-mast by mem-
bers of the R.A.N. and Heavy Brigade R.A.A.
10.40, detachments of the fighting services
and Royal Australian Artillery band to be
in position in Martin-place. 10.57, the Gover-
nor arrives; detachments brought to attention.
11 a.m., detachments at attention; hats off by
public; two minutes’ silence. 11.2, detachments
slope and present arms; trumpeters sound
“Last Post”; detachments slope arms; wreaths
placed in position by the Governor, Prime
Minister, State Premier, Lord Mayor of
Sydney, M.L. Government representative and
president of the R.S.S.I.L. A hymn follows,
accompanied by the Royal Australian Artillery
band. The detachments come to attention, and
trumpeters sound “Reveille.” Flags run to
mast-head. Detachments again stand at ease
while more wreaths are placed on Cenotaph
by representatives of various organisations.
One verse of the “National Anthem” is sung,
accompanied by band, during which detach-
ments come to attention. The Governor then
departs and detachments march off. The
order of service is modelled on that held yearly
at the London Cenotaph.
* * * *
(1) Does biology assign any reason why the
animal heart is deflected instead of being
straight in line with the body ? (2) Is
this deflection to the side universal in
animal life ? (3) Any reason why egg-yolks
are also deflected at about the same angle; is
this trait universal ? (4) Number of ele-
ments in human body, particularly oxygen and
nitrogen content ? (5) Approximate number of
heartbeats and respirations per circulation of
blood round the body? —lsB3.
(1) Biology gives no cause for the heart
“deflection.” (2) Universal in vertebrates and
higher animal life. (3) Not definite in egg-
yolk. (4) Chief elements in body tissues are
oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, sulphur,
phosphorus, chlorine, sodium, potassium, cal-
cium, magnesium and iron. Qxygen combined
with hydrogen as water is three-fourths approx,
by weight of human body. Carbon and nitro-
gen in bones, gelatine, etc., is one-tenth this
amount. (5) The heartbeat is 16 per circulation
in adult; respiration is variable.
* * * *
When is it correct, to use the plural of the
verb “to be,” past tense (“were”), when using
the personal pronoun singular “I” ? —1896.
In sentences of hypothetical import, as
“Were I to do such a thing” or “Were I of
independent means.”
* * * *
(1) In cementing the inside of a galvanised-
iron tank, how is the cement made to stick
to the sides ? (2) What is the correct mixture
to use, and what materials Would be required
for a 1000 -gallon tank ? (3) Is there any
special preparation with which to wash over
the finished job ? —1669.
(1) The tank must be thoroughly cleaned,
both inside and out. Holes are punched in the
walls, approximately 4in. in diameter, and
spaced about 12in. apart; 22-gauge wire-netting
(4in. mesh) is then lapped around the tank,
both inside and outside, the layer for the
bottom overlapping on the walls about 6in.,
both layers being laced through the holes,
using fine tie-wire. The bottom must be
cemented first, overlapping the walls about six
inches, and allowed to harden so as to provide
a foothold when plastering the walls. Before
plastering, the tank is treated with a neat
cement wash, thrown on the surface by means
of a brush. This is to provide a bond between
the tank and the plaster. (2) Mix a mortar
of 1 part cement to 2 parts fine, clean sand,
with only enough water to form a stiff but
workable mix. Apply in thicknesses of -tin.
When almost hard, score surface to provide
bond for next coat. Allow each coat to harden,
then damp-cure for two days. Thoroughly
moisten each coat before application of suc-
ceeding coat. Cure finished work for seven
days betore using. The amount of materials
required for a 1000-gallon tank would be 11
cub. ft. of cement and 22 cub. ft. of sand.
(3) No special preparation is necessary; mix
cement and water to a creamy consistency and
allow to stand for an hour, wet down the
completed tank, allow the surface water to dry
off, and apply the cement mixture with a white-
wash brush.
* * * *
/ have composed three songs with music.
I wrote to a music-publishing firm, seeking
advice as to publication, but not sending the
compositions. The firm replied that the cost
of publishing would be B d. per copy, with a
minimum of 1000 copies, additional copies
pro rata. (1) Is it usual to pay for publication
of accepted material ? (2) Would it be bettei
to copyright and send to England or America .
(3) Reliable publishing houses in these
countries ? (4) What is the usual procedure if
publication is undertaken ? —lBO2.
(1) It is not advisable. In your case the
question does not arise, as you did not submit
your compositions to the publisher, who could
advise you only concerning publication cost.
(2) Submit the songs to an Australian publisher
such as Allan and Co., Melbourne, or Albert
and Co., Sydney, for an opinion in the first
instance. If they are unable to accept for pub-
lication but think the compositions might have
a chance abroad they will tell you so. (3)
Cannot advise without knowing nature of your
compositions. (4) If your work is worth pub-
lishing, the publishing firm will make you an
offer, either spot cash or, more generally, on a
royalty basis, for your rights in respect of the
compositions.
* * *
Number of motor vehicles in use in India;
also the number of English and American
makes imported into India last year? —1614.
The total number of motor vehicles registered
in British India for the year ending March 31,
1934, was 202,960, comprising 21,118 motor-
cycles, 40,427 heavy motor vehicles and 141,415
cars. The importations of motor vehicles over
the period 1933-34 numbered 9759, of which
5348 came from the U.K., 2227 from the
U.S.A. and 1715 from Canada.
j|s =!= *
Where can I obtain a cloth pattern of the
MacDonald of Clanranald tartan, or an illus-
tration (in color ) of it? —1368.
This tartan has, in addition to the usual
MacDonald colors of green, red and black, a
fine white line woven through it. Grace Bros.,
Broadway, Sydney, carry the usual MacDonald
tartan, but that with the addition of the white
seems unobtainable. Adam’s Clans, Septs and
Regiments of the Scottish Highlands contains
an illustration of the MacDonald of Clan-
ranald tartan in color.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the short-story com-
petition being conducted by the Australian
Literature Society, Melbourne ? —lBB9.
A first prize of £5 ss. and a second prize
of £2 2s. are offered for an original unpub-
lished short story not exceeding 3000 words,
which must portray some phase of Australian
life and character. Each story must bear a
pen-name and must be accompanied by a sealed
envelope containing the name and address of
the writer. An entry fee of 2s. must accom-
pany each entry. The winning stories remain
the property of the authors, but the society
reserves the right to read at one of its monthly
meetings any story awarded a prize. Stories
must be in the hands of the secretary not later
than September 30, 1936. Address, hon. secre-
tary, Australian Literature Society, care W. R.
Cottman, 294 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
How to combat mildew which has badly
attacked poppies, chrysanthemums, roses and
deciduous trees in the garden ? —1939.
Cut off the tops of the chrysanthemum plants
to 6in. from the base and burn them. Spray the
poppies, roses and deciduous trees with lime-
and-sulphur solution (trade strength) and work
into the soil about them a good sprinkling of
potash. Further sprayings about a month
hence and again when new growth shows in
the spring will minimise the disease.
* * * *
I am troubled with an affection of the skin
between the toes. It has assumed an intense
whiteness, and peels off when rubbed during
sleep. Irritation is usually pronounced. What
is the cause and remedy ? —1520.
Symptoms suggest tinea or fungal infection
between the toes, a definite germ disease which
demands prompt treatment for relief. Avoid
local irritation and dry the part well after
bathing twice daily with hot water and a germi-
cidal soap. During the interval dust freely with
equal parts bismuth subgallate, zinc oxide and
starch powder over a smearing of olive oil.
A useful ointment that may be substituted for
the oil is: Prepared calamine 10 grains, bis-
muth subgallate 15 grains, powdered chloretone
10 grains, zinc cream to loz. Footwear, socks,
etc., must be changed frequently —the acid
perspiration aggravates congestion if allowed to
accumulate. Curtail acids in the diet, and take
milk of magnesia as an aperient. Examination
advised if trouble persists.
ijc :Jc sfc $
What food is permissible for an over-acid
stomach, and what should be avoided ?— 1775.
Items permissible in a non-acid diet are
mutton, lamb, chicken, rabbit, fresh fish, cab-
bage, spinach, celery, cauliflower, onions,
pumpkin, marrow, oranges, grapes, weak tea,
cocoa, milk, barley-water, butter, toast and
clear soup. Eat sparingly of boiled potatoes,
stewed and preserved fruits, jam, sugar, eggs,
cheese, rice and tapioca. Avoid pork, veal,
ham, corned beef, bacon, duck, goose, pre-
served meat, peas, beans, tomatoes, cucumber,
berry fruits, rhubarb, nuts, sauces, pickles and
pastry. Drink warm liquids freely between meals.
The citric acid contained in oranges and lemons
is converted into carbonates in the system and
is not classed as a harmful acid.
❖ # ❖ *
Is it possible by exercises or applying an
ointment containing bone foods to develop a
receding chin ? —1869.
Neither exercise nor ointment applications in
any form can appreciably affect bone forma-
tion of the chin. In certain cases involving
the facial tissues as a whole, plastic surgery
affords a means of partial correction, but this
procedure is seldom advised after maturity.
Best resort to massage that improves contour
of chin and neck tissues. For the purpose
use a vegetable-oil skin food, the cream to
be applied in a patting movement upwards and
outwards over the chin. This may be alter-
nated with an olive-oil foment as follows:
After bathing the face with hot water at night,
dry lightly and apply a liberal smearing of oil
over affected parts. Then wrap a towel wrung
out in hot water closely about the chin and
lower part of the face until cool. Repeat
two or three times. Finally dab over with
liquid witch-hazel to firm the tissues.
Brief Answers.
H.S.: Consult a vet E.G.H.: Pistachio
nuts were introduced to North Queensland by
the Department of Agriculture many years ago,
but proved to be unsuccessful. There are no
trees now grown in Queensland... .R.M.D.:
Yes, there was another John Ovens in N.S.W.
about the same time; he was lieutenant in the
57th Regiment. The better-known of the two
was major in the 74th Regiment... .A.L.:
Can’t undertake to answer conundrums
R.C.: As a general rule land in France is
privately-owned. The 1926 census showed that
nearly 40 p.c. of the total population are
farmers with a working capital of 70 to 80
billion francs. Smallholders for the most part,
but there are large estates, partly privately-
owned and partly the property of towns and the
State... .L.M.A.: The number of cubic feet per
ton of lucerne hay will vary according to the
quality of the hay and the solidity of the
stack. Loose hay varies from 350 to 400 cubic
feet to the ton A. 8.: Concrete Engineers'
Handbook, by Hool and Johnson, and
Cements, Limes and Plasters, by Eckel....
A.A.M.: See Simple Mechanical Working
models (Is. 6d.) H.L.: Book is not in stock
in Sydney. Copy could be imported through
any of the leading Sydney booksellers, price
13s E.A.R.: The Poet’s Tongue (105.)....
R.U.: (1) If there is no colored material be-
neath the drill to cause a stain you can wash
with a sponge dipped in warm soapy water
containing a little ammonia. Sponge off clean
with plain water, pat dry with a towel, and
then put in an airy place. If doubtful of
lower material paste over with whiting mixed
with water to a smooth paste, let dry, then
brush off. (2) Rub with white shoe cream and
clean off with a flannel cloth... .G.R.F.: Write
C. A. Collier, hon. sec., Vic. Amateur Cyclists’
Union, 16 O’Hea-street, Coburg, Melbourne.
J.R.B.: Allambie means “a quiet place”;
Akuna, “good”; Allawah, “I camp here”;
Birubi, “the Southern Cross”; Bunyana,
“good” or “sweet”; Barkoola, “two”; Eli-
matta, “hy home”; Elouera, “pleasant place”;
Illira, “shelter hut”; Lumeah, “here I rest”;
and lluka, “near the sea.” Baanya, Gooyong,
Immarna, Myoora, Moora, Oorong, Weabra
and Yarallah all mean “camp” or “camping-
place” ; and Weerona means “resting-place.”
M.C.: Write to Trem Watson, secretary,
the Meccano Guild, 595 Parramatta-road,
Leichhardt, Sydney... .V.8.M.: Write Angus
and Robertson or Anthony Hordern and Sons
—both Sydney... .E.C.W.: There is no law
preventing you from doing your own wiring,
since the voltage is less than 50, but your
fire-insurance co. may have something to say
on the subject. If the work is not done by
a competent electrician there is always' risk of
fire C.C.: Station 2KY Sydney commenced
to operate in October, 1925... .F.L.8.: No
information available here, and no books kept
by leading shops. A few skilled workers belong
to the Society of Arts and Crafts of N.S.W.,
Bth floor, St. James Building, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. On application to the secretary
you may be able to obtain lessons or informa-
tion... .G.H.R.: Las Palmas is the capital of
Grand Canary Island. The island, which is
almost circular in shape, is 344 miles long by
294 miles broad, and has a population of
165,000 8.P.: Gibboke means “a sharp
thorn”; Moleagul, “a wooded hill”; Moorool-
bark, “red earth”; Tallygaroopna, “a large
tree”; and Kingpaniel, “the head of a hill”
—all are Vic. abo. names... .F.W.: Marianne
de Malkhazouny married the Duke of Leeds,
Mimi Crawford married the Earl of Suffolk and
Oriel Ross married Earl Poulett S.R.:
Gabriel Toyne was born in London on April
5, 1905. Margaret Rawlings was born in
Osaka, Japan—never mind when T.D.:
James Bridie wrote the play “The Black Eye.”
It was first produced at the Shaftesbury Theatre,
London, on October 11, 1935 A.M.: Bert
Oldfield served with .the 15th Field Ambulance,
A.1.F., during the war. Charles Macartney
served with the 3rd Australian Division....
J.F.T.: Write Director, National Art Gallery of
N. S. Wales, Sydney... .G. 0.8.: Nothing
better than ordinary glue, purchased in sheets,
pearl or powder form. You should use a
proper gluepot, obtainable at any hardware
store... .J.P.M.: Can recommend Henley’s
Twentieth-century Book of Recipes, also Per-
fumes and Cosmetics, Their Preparation and
Manufacture, by G. W. Atkinson; both prob-
ably procurable from the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Sydney, or from the Henley Publishing
Co., 2 West 45th-street, New York, at about
30s. each. The course you mention would
probably absorb too much time as a student,
but could be pursued at night without inter-
fering with working hours. You might get
in touch with a chemist in your line who would
give a short course of lessons privately. Then
read extensively on the subject and buy text-
books; these are expensive, but should prove
a good investment... .N.L.W.: Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Department for pamphlet “Bacon
Curing on the Farm” L.R.: In the first
place consult the Curator of Intestate Estates.
It may be necessary, to secure all parties, to
refer the matter to the Court ol Equity. This
will involve considerable expense... .L.D.: It
the contractor was your employer you must
look to him for payment. Should he fail to
pay, then, should the employer have in hand
money due on the contract to the contractor,
you can call on him to pay the overdue wages
out of such money so far as it will go. Your
best course is to put the matter in the hands of
a solicitor... .T.W.F.: Cannot, in the absence
of some essential facts, express a definite
opinion, but the proposal is one that, if safety
is the prime factor, would be better left alone.
H.T.: The aboriginal name of Fort
Denison, Sydney, otherwise “Pinchgut Island,”
is Mattawunga; the meaning is not known.
(Many others mailed.)


44
start ability
99
H A v c .. u F A* 0 TH 1 s
v B YOU H E A
IFO * B p
\
O R D
B
mmm
It is a new word-—means “Power to Start’"—the power of Atlantic Petrol to start your car
instantly at any temperature. Eight years ago Atlantic Petrol was unknown in this market.
To-day, thousands of motorists use it and rate it the finest fuel in its price field—and in start-
ability second to none, regardless of price! .For quality that never varies . . . power to start
and keep going, change now to Atlantic Petrol—there’s nothing in its price field to touch it.
The only way to get still greater performance with equal startabiUty (especially in high com-
pression cars) is to use Atlantic Ethyl , the A.l knockless fuel.
ATLANTIC
PETROL
AVo- 48-36


SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sixteen Annas shaped like a probable
G.N. winner when he landed the Tool-
ambool Hurdle at Caulfield. Neil Mc-
Kenna was there to saddle up his horse,
and L. J. Hynes, who had looked after
the chestnut, rode him. Sixteen Annas
gave a thrilling display of jumping. He
is as clever as a cat, being able to take
the hurdles in his stride or “put in a
short one” as circumstances require. At
the last flight he outjumped Calydon so
sensationally that Hynes looked round
to see whether his rival had fallen.
All through the journey Sixteen Annas
showed a tendency to hang in. This
may account for the jockey taking rather
a wide course until he dropped into
second position, behind Calydon, a mile
from home. McKenna’s neddy beat
Brilliant Son by only a neck, but the
margin could have been greater, Hynes
having eased up his mount. Akanree
ran a moderate third, and did not en-
hance his National prospects. King
Colossus only discounted his Flemington
chance, but the form of Peep o’ Day
was too bad to be true. Asa rule,
Peep o’ Day does his best work at the
end ; on Saturday he suffered from the
slows from start to finish. Telford’s
candidate, Menelik, came in for last-
moment support and firmed three points
to 7 to 1 ; the Ethiopian gelding did
nothing to justify this plunge. And
Fulham was stones below the form that
enabled him to win the National Hurdle
of 1935.
When Brilliant Son was being saddled
up, his trainer, Andy Ferguson,
remarked that the Constant Son stallion
had a lovely disposition at home, but
did not do his best with the colors up.
Ferguson must have been agreeably sur-
prised at Brilliant Son’s display. The
little fellow tackled Sixteen Annas
gamely when the jumping was over.
Bert Foulsham was satisfied with the
manner in which Pooley Bridge pulled
up. The National preparation of Pooley
Bridge was interrupted by a leg injury,
but now he seems sound again. Carried
almost off the course by Chief Light and
Fulham running out near the IF mile
post, Pooley Bridge lost any number of
lengths; however, he came home en-
couragingly.
El Damaroyal was elevated to the first
line in National Steeple betting after his
victory in the Wanda Steeple—it was pre-
ceded by a success over the Valley fences
on June 13. At Moonee Valley he nearly
“sold out” at the final obstacle, but on
Saturday he never put a foot wrong.
Maher again rode a perfect race. Fie
allowed the El Dorado gelding to drop
back nearly last for six furlongs, and then
gathered-in the leaders by easy stages,
taking command at the half-mile when
Manlius surrendered control through
pecking after collision with a fence. From
that point it was a case of “pay out.”
Crashing in front of the stand when
leading, Wanconner ruined the chance of
Ranclea, who seemed to hurt himself
in wriggling out of the danger zone.
Fullarton, the rider of Ranclea, formed
the impression that the horse had injured
his back. Ranclea completed the course,
but virtually was out of the race from
the moment the accident occurred.
Brian Stockdale holds El Damaroyal
on lease. The gelding is described as out
of a Turmoil mare, but no one seems to
know even how Turmoil was bred. Stock-
dale . confesses that he doesn’t. So the
highest cross-country honors in Australia
this season may go to a commoner. El
Damaroyal is thoroughly seasoned, and
measures his fences as the old-timers used
to do.
Mrs. G. Flore, a suburban picture-
theatre owner, won the Minook Two-
year-old with Golden Light, a Brazen
colt. Many spectators thought that Ex-
change was first past the post, but the
judge declared for Golden Light by half
a head from Match King, with Exchange
half a head farther away. Match King
came on the scene with a rush, and may
be marked down as a sure winner soon.
Punters had a field day. Sixteen Annas
(11 to 4), Golden Light (5 to 2), El Dama-
royal (7 to 2) and Studio (5 to 2) headed
the quotes in their respective events,
while The Wizard (5 to 2) shared favorit-
ism with In the Air, whom he comfort-
ably defeated in the Richmond Handicap.
If Beau Ham (16 to 1) had not van-
quished Desert Chief (6 to 4) in the Cam-
bria Welter, there would have been
weeping and wailing and gnashing of
teeth in the ranks of ringmen.
* i- * *
Mrs. M. King made a wise purchase
when she gave 150 guineas for Confab,
who has now won two races in her
colors. Being an aged gelding, he was
sold cheap, but he showed he is no back
number by fighting out every inch of the
way with Sir Ross in the Canterbury
Handicap. In a bumping finish, for
which the little fellow was not respon-
sible, Confab scored by half a head, with
Patwood a fair third.
Confab gave the bookies practically a
clean sheet, going out at 12 to I—a1 —a very
long price at Canterbury, irving was
favorite at 9 to 4. He galloped like a
show stallion. Cook was at him a long
way from the judge, but he refused to do
his best, finishing a poor sixth. Cool-
star and Goosalt ran useful races, but
Stonebrook, who looked in excellent
trim, could not stride out at the turns.
He will do better at Randwick. Brae-
burn was another troubled by the small
track.
Bim Boy has to earn his oats. He has
been racing consistently for weeks, and
condition stood to him in the first divi-
sion of the Flying Welter, for which he
started at sixes, having No. 14 position
at the barrier. Darby Munro allowed
him to settle down, and, coming with a
late run, he scored convincingly from
Kaylah and New Tip. Shackleton
squibbed it after being prominent to the
Leger. Atucas ran a sound race, and his
fourth is worth remembering.
The locally-trained Questionnaire
would have been at a shorter price than
7 to 2 in the second division but for
the heavy support for Downham, Popo-
naise and Dungala. Patiently handled
by Cook in the early stages, Question-
naire made her run at the Leger and won
nicely from Poponaise and Downham —
too far out of his ground in the first two
furlongs. A Queenslander, Crowbar,
was fourth. Dungala, slow away, was
rushed up too quickly, and was left with-
out a run.
Bull Ant won well at Rosehill, and was
expected to prove too speedy for oppo-
nents in the Juvenile; from twos he
shortened to 5 to 4. Bullhead’s son
was lucky to beat Bengal Lancer, a
stable-mate of Golden Wings, and a
really fine type of chestnut. Bengal
Lancer dashed through on the rails, and
just failed to catch the favorite, little
Dameitta being a close third. Warra-
vving was fourth. An early winner.
Tapestry must hgve shown his party
good trials, for he was backed from
fours to 9 to 4 in the Ashbury Handi-
cap. He gave an inglorious display. The
Newcastle-owned and -trained Sir Joe
carried his lOst. 21b. like a good horse.
Making all the pace, he was caught in
the last furlong by The Genius (14 to 1),
a jumper who gallops well on the flat.
Winawin was third and Perron fourth.
Greenback ran a useful race; he was
blocked more than once.
Backers were well on the mark in both
divisions of the Park Stakes. In the first
Lavage (7 to 2) ran away from the
Cowra-owned and -trained Vergain and
-Galadeer Boy; the favorite, Cognac,
stumbled at the barrier. Orient Orb (2 to
1) jumped out from the rails in the second
division, and was never in danger of
defeat. Dick Wootton’s Prince’s Son and
Lefaire filled the places.
* ** *
There are no ten-stoners in this year's
Melbourne Cup; Sylvandale heads the
list with 9st. 81b., Silver Ring (9st. 41b.)
and Cuddle (9st. 21b.) following. None
of these appeals, but Sarcherie must have
a decided chance with Bst. 71b. —no great
burden for a mare who has been second
twice and has since won the A.J.C.
Autumn Stakes at w.f.a. Feldspar (9st.)
is reckoned the best of the four-year-
olds ; Garrio gets Bst. 121 b., Palfresco and
Allunga Bst. 101 b., Young Idea Bst. 71b.,
The Trump, Auto Buz and Buzzard
King Bst. 51b., The Chanter Bst. 31b. and
Egmont Bst. 21b. Gold Rod has 7st.
101 b.
Sylvandale is on top of the Caulfield
Cup weights also, with 9st. 91b. Silver
Ring is reckoned lib. his inferior; Cuddle
has 9st. 61b., Feldspar 9st. 21b., Garrio
and Regular Bachelor 9st. lib. If Regu-
lar Bachelor can go the distance he will
be dangerous ; and a lot of four-year-
olds will have to be reckoned with,
especially Palfresco (Bst. 101 b.), The
Trump (Bst. 61b.) and The Chanter (Bst.
41b.), if ail goes well with them.
Epsom and Metrop. candidates that
take the eye are Regular Bachelor (9st.
71b.), Pamelus (9st. lib.), Cabalist (Bst.
101 b.), Cereza (BsL), Capris (7st. 121 b.)
and Silver Standard (7st. 71b.) for the
mile ; and for the Metrop., Pamelus (Bst.
121 b.), Egmont and Spear Prince (Bst.
sib.), Buzzard King (Bst. 31b.), Dark
Chief (Bst.), Loud Applause (7st. 131 b.)
and Verdun (7st. 61b.).
Doubles: Regular Bachelor and Eg-
mont or The Trump for the two Cups;
Pamelus and Loud Applause for the
Epsom and Metrop.
% sfc H* %
The racing world did not take Jimmy
Pike seriously when he said he was re-
tiring with Peter Pan, but he has proved
to be in dead earnest. A realisation of
this led to his being entertained at Tatt.’s
Club the other night. Deputy-Premier
Bruxner, Minister Dunningham and
Rodney Dangar were among the speakers,
and a “massive gilt-framed illuminated
address,” expressed in flowery language,
with a record of Pike’s most important
successes for 30 years (1906-1936), was
handed to the great jockey. He will
treasure most the simple tribute of Wil-
liam Kelso, to whom he gave all the
credit for his career; his old boss said:
“Pike had the will to win and always
went straight.”
* ** *
Turbine, who in the Dundas Handi-
cap at Rosehill had finished about a
length behind the five that were almost
abreast at the judge’s box, won the Fly-
ing Handicap at Rosebery on Wednes-
day at the nice price of 10 to 1. Though
he carried 9st. 81b. and had to give lumps
of weight to horses like Some Boy and
Windbird, who were both backed, he
won easily. This indicates that Dundas
Handicap form was good and that the
five who beat Turbine should be borne
in mind for future events. They were
Osculum (1), Gold Chance (2). Bombus
(3). Whittingham (4) and Pavarti.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
After seeing the Louis-Baer “fight” pic-
tures a Bulletin man wrote the follow-
ing (B. 20/11/’35):
If Johnson, Langford, even McVea,
could be brought back into the ring as
this country remembers them, few Aus-
tralians would back Louis against any of
the three. This writer, for one,, can’t
imagine him getting past McVea’s wonder-
ful left, or coping with Johnson’s all-round
stuff, or standing up to Langford’s fearful
punches. Though powerfully built, he does
not look nearly as strong as did Johnson,,
and would have , had no show against the-
gold-toothed coon in close work.
Americans had a higher opinion of Louis.
They laid 10 to lon when the negro
met Schmeling—nine years older and, at
13st. 101 b., 61b. lighter— at New York on
Friday night. The coon and nearly all
the old-timers predicted a win for Louis
within four rounds. But the German out-
punched and outgamed him ; floored him
in the fourth round, and had him down
and out —for several minutes —in the
twelfth.
Footbrawl
North Melbourne went “mafficking” on
Saturday night in honor of the home
team’s defeat of Carlton. The result
was a surprise to the public, as North’s
defeat of Footscray the previous week
was only its second win in 45 games.
Against Carlton it played good football,
kicked straight and finished strongly to
win by 13-8 to 9-13.
1 he Melbourne-St. Kilda match, with
both teams fighting for their chance of
inclusion in “the four,” was expected to
be a close game, but Saints disappointed
sorely. Their feeble kicking and over-
indulgence in handball were in marked
contrast to the Redlegs’ long kicking and
accuracy in front of goal. Melbourne
won comfortably by 20-11 to 15-11.
Collingwood and South both notched
their eighth successive victory, the
former at the expense of Footscray
(16-10 to 11-13) and the latter over
Geelong (16-21 to 15-14). In the other
games Richmond (20-12) beat Fitzroy
(12-16), and Essendon (12-19) overcame
Flawthorn (8-18). Melbourne’s win and
Carlton’s unexpected defeat bring these
two teams together in fourth position
with 20 points each —the Blues, however,
hold a fairly substantial lead on per-
centages.
* * * *
For the third time this season N.S.W.
Rugby Leaguers won with the handicap
of a man short when they beat Queens-
land 16-14 in the return match at Bris-
bane. This N. S. Wales lot is a Test team
in itself—probably the best the State
has turned out for 20 years. Only two
changes had to be made in it to get the
first Test team for the King’s Birthday
clash. Hey—ex-N.S.W. and the best five-
eighth in the country —goes in as centre,
and Heidke is added to the forwards. On
Saturday’s showing Gilbert and Reardon
are unlucky not to be representing
Queensland: they are the only two back-
reserves selected, and may be in later
Tests.
Still, the side is good picking. Thick-
nesse has class, and this scribe would
prefer Gilbert only for toughness. Nor-
man, too, has won the five-eighth job on
recent form, and Hey may do just as
well in the centre. The one surprise of
the selection is Crippen on the left wing,
where he took the place of Hurley
(injured) on Saturday and played a
capital game. Hitherto Crippen has
played centre, but he takes the dummy
too freely for that position and will be
safer on the outside. He has plenty of
pace. Brown, of course, leads ; Beaton
is fullback ; and Prigg, S. Pearce, Stehr,
Fairall and Curran complete a fastish
side that will take a power of beating.
Beaton, Thicknesse and Crippen played
Rugby Union; so did the unlucky
Hurley.
* * * *
Randwick and Western Suburbs played
a hard-tackling game to an 8-all draw at
Coogee, and remain together at the top of
Sydney’s R.U. premiership table. For-
ward and back they cut even, each side
putting on two tries and converting one.
A fine try by Richards, the captain and
five-eighth, gave ’Wick an 8-5 lead ; but
West lasted better. Of the other matches,
only Drummoyne (9) v. East (8) was
close; but Gordon, ahead 12-3 at lemons,
gave Uni. a scare. The Students improved
in the second spell, and added three tries
to win 19-12. North and Manly had
what were practically practice runs:
North collected 28 points to Parramatta’s
12, and Manly 41 to Saints’ 11. Manly
is still four points behind the leaders, but
if it can contrive to give Kelaher more
chances should be one of “the four” at
the end of the season.
* * * *
“King’s”: Parramatta, one of the old-
est Rugby Union districts in N.S.W.,
which went to sleep for some years but
woke up again a couple of seasons ago,
will see its first inter-State match when
Victoria plays Ma there on July 11. In
the old days “Parramatta and District”
were always a tough nut for visiting teams,
and both Queensland and Maoriland
found stiff opposition there. “Jumbo”
Fraser, who figured against Queensland
and M.L. many times in the ’eighties,
was about the most famous of Parra-
matta's old-time players.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR MELBOURNE EVENTS.
Wiiliamstown Steeple: Pactolus ;
next, Calfly.
Port Phillip Hurdle: Brilliant
Son ; next, Akanree.
Point Cook Handicap: Serlodi;
next, In the Air.
V.R.C. Steeple: Pactolus; next,
Dubup.
Birthday Handicap: Jack Horner;
next, Petit Fils.
Lancaster Handicap: Dark Sky;
next, Gay Pop.
Cornwall Handicap: Bite Again ;
next, Radiant Star.
FOR RANDWICK.
A.J.C. Hurdle Race: The Genius ;
next, Sly Lad.
A.J.C. Amateur Cup: Rogerio ;
next, Cinema.
June Stakes: Windbird; next,
Bombus.
Ellesmere Handicap: Osculum ;
next, Golden Chance.
Winter Plate: Rogerio; next,
Greenback.
Exeter Handicap: Golden
Chance ; next, Young Crusader.


mmm
mmm
MODEL 67
.2 2-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
Barrel, Elevating Rear Sight'. Price 45/-
mmm
Barrel,
MODEL 68
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action,
Adjustable Peep Sight. Price
Carriage Paid.
2 7in.
55/-
mmm
MODEL 69
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in.
Round Tapered Barrel; Two Magazines,
one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price 85/-
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 907-
Carriage Paid.
EQUIP YOURSELF FOR RIGHT SHOOTING
with
WINCHESTER
RIFLES
WHICH HAVE SPECIAL PROOF STEEL
BARRELS FOR THE USE OF SUPER-
SPEED CARTRIDGES.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price . . £B/10/-
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
"WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M33BS.
mmmm
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel,
and Long-rifle. Price .... £5/5/-.
for Short, Long
Carriage paid.
■ b
Long-rifle
Price .
MODEL 63
The “Speed King” .22-cal. Auto-
matic, 23in. Round Barrel; for
Super-speed Cartridges only.
.. . £9/10/- Carriage paid.
yV/NCMSUk
No. 69121, Five-cell Standard Focussing
Searchlight. Full Chrome Finish. Range,
Complete with Batteries. Price
1500 ft.
. 22/6
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. has made a
most welcome change by resolving to
start June and July premiership matches
at 2.30 p.m. instead of 2.45. In those
months darkness falls so quickly, especi-
ally on dull days, that there is hardly
light enough for spectators to see to
stoush the referee as he comes off the
field. The Rugby codes in Sydney might
follow the lead. With a start at 3.15,
players are often impossible to distin-
guish in the last 10 minutes of a match.
“Outsider": The Richmond Oval dis-
pute advanced another stage on June 13,
when gate-crashers again entered the
ground without paying. There was no
match on the oval last Saturday, but an
important game, Richmond-South Mel-
bourne, is listed for June 27 and wiil
probably attract one of the biggest
crowds of the season. It is quite likely
that the match will be transferred to the
Melbourne C.G. and that the same prac-
tice will be followed with all Richmond’s
home fixtures until the dispute has been
cleared up.
“Hotham”: The trouble between
Richmond (Vic.) cricket and football
clubs over the cut demanded by the
cricketers, who lease the local ground, has
brought suggestions for improvement
from Labor-leader Tunnediffe. Other
grounds are used by football clubs under
similar conditions and all are controlled
by a grounds management committee.
Tunnecliffe advocates the abolition of
the G.M.C., and suggests that the right
be given the two sports to hold and con-
trol the ground for six months of the
year. Each would keep its season’s tak-
ings for itself and look after the ground
for its term. In the case of Richmond
at least the responsibility of maintaining
the ground is thrown.on the footballers.
“S.T.S.”: The Australian code of foot-
ball deals severely with any rough play
that is intentional; but it has its perils.
A Uraidla (S.A.) player, trying to punch
the ball (which is lawful), punched one
of the opposing side instead, and knocked
him right out. As he went over, his
boot caught a Uraidla man under the
eye. Both had to go to hospital.
* * * *
“Umpire’s Mate”: Giving evidence
last week before a V.F.L. tribunal which
was considering a charge of “elbow-
ing,” a witness said that a player was
holding his opponent in order to give
his team mates time to get into position.
The chairman asked whether that was
not the cause of much of the rough play.
The question was very apposite. When
a free kick is awarded the intention is to
penalise the opposing side for a breach
of the rules. When, as often happens,
the man is seized and held by an oppo-
nent for the reason given, the effect
is to nullify the penalty to a large ex-
tent. The man held, knowing this,
naturally struggles to free himself, and
many nasty incidents have sprung from
the practice. There is no justification for
seizing a player who has been given a
free, and umpires should be empowered
to report offenders.
❖ H 4
“Old Q.”: Many Queensland Rugby
Union players disapprove of the decision
of the Q.R.U. to postpone all its matches
on July 4 when the League code stages
its Australia match against the visiting
Englishmen. In the past the League has
shown no such tender regard for Union
feelings. Last season it had a fine chance
for a sporting gesture when the Maoris
played in Brisbane, but it staged an
inter-city match on the same day.
* * * *
“Witherin’ Tyke”: The English foot-
ballers are complaining of their stiff tour
of Queensland as far as Townsville, with
matches in between. Most of the time
they are in the train, and the dreary
monotony of the long jog up the coast
of the Queensland trains has to be felt
to be understood. In the strip of Lanca-
shire and Yorkshire where the profes-
sional code is played a train journey of
more than 50 miles on the best railways
in the world is infrequent. Indeed, for
many matches, in Lancashire especially,
players could hike from one town to the
other on the morning of the match with-
out suffering unduly.
“N.Q.”: The Englishmen are them-
selves to blame for the long journeys
the team has to make before the
first Test in Sydney. They insisted on
their programme being squeezed into the
shortest possible time so as to enable
them to catch the first available boat in
Sydney for M.L., and then home. The
reason is the insistence of the profes-
sional club directorates that their live-
stock be back in the North of England in
time for the competitions, although they
make more money out of an Australian
tour than in any English season. The
Lancashire and Yorkshire R.L. authori-
ties don’t believe in keeping cats that
catch no mice.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: There has been a rumpus
in English golf circles rising out of the
idiotic practice of some players in con-
ceding what looks like a certain putt to
an opponent, the players involved being
Cyril Tolley and Meyer. The practice
is on a par with the tennis absurdity
which demands that a player insult an
“Come, come, HeppleiVaite—it' s not the size that counts; it's the honor!”
umpire who, he considers, has given a
wrong decision by throwing away the
next point. The shortest of putts is no
certainty. I once saw a player land the
ball right on the lip of a hole. His oppo-
nent gave him the hole, but the player,
a stickler for the rules, insisted on play-
ing in. His ball, was resting against the
edge of the cup, which was slightly
raised above the green, and when given
the slightest of taps jumped the hole and
went a couple of feet the other side.
Moral, play to the rules.
* =£ * ■»
“Deeside”: A misplaced lino, slug
made me say (B. 17/6/’36) that the Ash-
bridge course whereon Jim Ferrier won
the Gold Vase is the h.q. of the Royal
Liverpool club. This, of course, is situ-
ate at Hoylake, referred to earlier in
the same par., and I hasten to get in
with the correction before 10,000 or so
other mug golf experts. ••
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. State
golf championships start with the four-
somes on June 27, when 46 pairs will
face the starter for 36 holes of stroke.
The 36 qualifying rounds of the singles
are down for July 4 on the Australian
club’s course. The entry not being large
enough to spread the tussle over two
days, players will start early and finish
late, and the last players may come close
to finishing in the dark. The 32 players
who qualify will decide the issue over
36 holes of match play, beginning on
July 6.
“Gregory Terrace”: Brisbane munici-
pal links at Victoria Park have proved
such a success that the course is to be
enlarged and generally improved. It has
shown a steady profit almost since the
start. Municipal courses in Melbourne
and other leading Australian centres all
report the same satisfactory state of
things save the Sydney City Council’s
course at Moore Park—a white elephant
all the years of its life.
“Sandy Gallop”: Brisbane golfers, who
have long been burning with suppressed
fury at the refusal of the southern junta
to grant them an Australian champion-
ship meeting, are getting even by sneer-
ing at the pitiful rewards offered the pro-
fessionals in the Australian open and
professional championships at Melbourne
in September. The total is £157, and the
Queenslanders point out pityingly that
for their State titles £lB5 was put up.
Seriously, the £6O prize for the national
open is a poor one, and it is small
wonder professionals from other States
do not throng to the championship
centre, wherever it may be, in full
strength each year, since the winner finds
little left of the prize when he has paid
expenses.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Wimbledon began
life as a croquet battleground. Its mem-
bers objected bitterly to the intrusion of
what was then regarded as the sissy
patting of a ball back and forth over a
net. All the same the All-England cham-
pionships began there in 1877, and car-
ried on until the new grounds were
opened in 1922, when Gerald Patterson
won the first singles title contested there.
About 100 spectators attended the first
championships. To-day the centre court
alone has seating for 13,000. Tickets can
be got only by writing and then submit-
ting to a ballot for allotment.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: N.S.W. tennis
experts who have been affecting to believe
in the teeth of evidence that Crawford
is still Australia’s No. 1 player got the
shock that was coming to them when
Wimbledon graded him sixth in the seed-
ing, with Quist third to Perry and Von
Cramm. No other verdict was possible
on form. Allison and Budge are fourth
and fifth —Crawford has a better claim
than Allison at least —Austin and Grant,
seventh and eighth. On the doubles list
Crawford and Quist come first, with
Allison-Van Ryn, Mako-Budge and
Hughes-Tuckey following.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: The betting on the
Wimbledon singles looks a bit wild to
me. Perry is 7 to 4 on, Von Cramm 2 to
1 against, Crawford and Budge 4 to 1.
Tens are offered against Allison, Quist
and Austin.
* * * *
“Rolande”: The final of the European
Davis Cup zone on July 11, 12 and 13
will be between Germany and Yugo-
slavia, and will be played at Zagreb.
Germany ousted Ireland in the semi-
finals by five matches to nil, and Yugo-
slavia won from Austria at Vienna by
four matches to one, losing the doubles.
It is in this quarter that the Yugos are
likely to meet trouble, their doubles pair
having been consistently beaten. Aus-
tralia’s chance against either team on the
grass at Wimbledon on July 18 looks
rosy provided temperament doesn’t upset
things.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth”: The trial match for the
English team for Australia at Lord’s dis-
closed no startling genius hitherto blush-
ing unseen. Turnbull made an attractive
century, and Hardstaff, Fishlock and
Gover also did things among the candi-
dates who have not yet figured in Test-
match cricket. Gimblett, of Somerset,
and Warburton, from Lancashire, who
have been strongly boomed, failed badly.
Allen did so well as skipper of the South
that he is to lead England against India
at Lord’s on June 27. So far, Leyland,
Verity, Duckworth, Wyatt, Allen and
Turnbull are the only men who look to
have a good chance of selection.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: By the end of May the
English cricket barometer is a fair guide
to the best performers of the season.
Verity and Leyland top the averages, and
are certainties for Australia. Gimblett
(Somerset) and Fishlock (Surrey) are in
third and fourth places among the bats-
men, Dempster being second. Of the
bowlers unknown here Copson (Derby-
shire) has taken 45 wickets af 11.62, and
Gover (Surrey) 67 at 16. Both are fast-
ish and are likely selections. Altogether
there seems a lot of new talent waiting
for a chance.
* * # *
“Spike”: Cabled that one Donald
Lash, of Indiana, has broken the out-
door two-mile record with the hot time
of Bmin. 58 3-10 sec. The previous best
was Nurmi’s Bmin. 59 6-10 sec. Indoors,
Nurmi has done the distance, which is
in the nature of a sprint for him, in
Bmin, 58 l-ssec. Australasia’s best is
9miri. 20 l-ssec. by Maorilander Rose.
* * * if
“The Gaffer”: Eddie Tolan, at present
coaching the Yankee Olympic sprinters,
is to defend his “world’s” sprint title in
Melbourne at the end of the year. Most
of the Australian professional fliers will
compete against him, and it is intended
to tempt one or two good amateurs to
cross over. There is a chance, too, that
when the usual crop of amateurs turns
professional after the Olympic Games a
runner or two may be among them. If
so, Tolan has a good chance to talk
Australia to them.


IT
r~T'
w
□
1
U=L
1
3
C^fbfel
Collins Street Melbourne c
FAMOU/ AMONG HC/TEUIE/ fOR. GENERATION/
r
TO stay at “Scott’s”
is to show that
same sound judgment
that has been exer-
cised by generation
upon generation of
discerning people.
Scott’s is —and always has
been in the forefront in
hotel accommodation and
a service that combines
everything desired in com-
fort, convenience and en-
ticing cuisine.
Whether on business or on
a social visit, you will find
that you are in an atmos-
phere of homeliness when
you stay at “Scott’s.”
Inclusive Tariff —
or Room Only
as desired
Breakfast,
Luncheon,
Dinner
a la Carte
DNiaNVi/ino
Telegrams and Cables ,
“ ScottsotelMelbourne.
'Phone:
Cent. 9010
(Twelve Lines).
:? r :


Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
LtUNkL BtBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range !
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
H.8.8.L. (iliN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
o2in. steel barrels, both cliokc. rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end. half-pistol
grip wnlnut stock.
Price
£l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASHMORE 5.6.8. L. GUN, 12G.,
solid bar action, .°>2in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol grip, walnut
stock; weight, about 71b
£l4/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 22—MIDLAND D.Ii.K.U. SPECIAL
HAMMEELESS GUN, 12G., 32in. barrels,
left clioke, walnut
pistol grip
stock,
-/Sl/SIS
Carriage Paul.
No. 24 —STEVENS AK3IS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever cross-
holt, steel barrels, botli_ choke, matted nb,
barrels and lug one-piece, 32in. barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip, tested for nit.ro
powders; weight, about 81b.
Price
I-/01/93
Carriage Paid.
No. 25 —IV O R JOHNSON 8.8.8.11.
HAMMEKLKSS GUN, 12G., 32in. barrels;
both full choke, top-lever crossbolt; Anson
and Deeley action. Tested for nitro -£g
powders; weight, about 81b
Carriage Paid.
SPORTING RIFLES
An outstanding Rifle, fitted
with Telescopic Sight , now
retailing at the low price of
£6'l7'6
MOSSBERG .22
CALIBRE BOLT-
ACTION REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, IM-
PROVED MODEL 46
This is a remarkable
comb inat i o n of a
superbly accurate Rifle,
equipped with a Micro-
meter Adjustable Rear-
sight and four-power
Telescope Sight, also
Micrometer Adjustable
Sight. The sales for
this Rifle have been un-
precedented, and in re-
sponse to demand we
have just landed an-
other large shipment
from America.
mm
No. 8 STEVENS’
SPRINGFIELD S.S. RIFLE
CO 22 calibre, bolt action,
S¥l tJ It to ZvAtff 22in. round barrel,
golf bead front and ladder rear sight;
weight, about 4flb.
Price
45/-
Postage., %/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 40 SAVAGE BOLT-
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 4,
round barrel, gold bead front and ladder
rear sights; takes 22 short, long or lon
rifle cartridges. Weight, sslb.
Price
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
JTAYMARKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
80/-
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
rjhe
e o ronat ion
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
Windmills
The Standard
of Quality
m
DOUBLE GEARED
SELF-OILING
RAIN PROOF
DUST PROOF
LEAK PROOF
Used by Farmers and
Graziers all over the
Commonwealth.
Billabong Windmills are made by highly skilled
workmen from the finest materials obtainable,
and are manufactured to give years of trouble-
free service.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW BILLABONG CATALOGUE.
/
Vi
m
A
>KS
cd-tv. L."rn>.
Makers of Billabong Windmills and Pumps and Cooee Windmills.
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-imam
•mss#
m.
i
m
mi
m
mm
Never Stopped
Working”
Another truck owner praises
the dependability and eco-
nomy of V-8 performance.
He says: "My Ford V-8 Tip-
ping Truck has never stopped
work since I got her. She does
more work at less cost than .
any truck I have used." Im-
portant V-8 Truck features
are: Full-floating rear axle;
Straddle mounted pinion;
Truck-type clutch and trans-
mission; Safety Glass wind-
screen. Your Ford dealer will
gladly arrange an "on-the-
job" test. Easy purchase terms.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-8
TRUCKS
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Oxmead”: The fact that rabbits are
becoming for the first time more of a
pest than a useful target for powder and
shot and a valued article of food in Eng-
land has turned the attention of scientists
towards the furry breed. One conclusion
arrived at is that they are not indigenous
in the British Isles, not having arrived
before the twelfth or thirteenth century.
There is no mention of the rabbit, it
seems, in any of the Saxon or early Nor-
man writers. The idea of the English
countryside without bunny seems strange,
but the Ency. Brit, supports the view that
he was a much later invader than Wil-
liam the Conqueror. Lepus cuniculus,
it seems, is a native of the western halt
of the Mediterranean basin only, fiom
where he has spread, slowly in inclement
climes, with amazing rapidity in favorable
ones, far and wide over the world. Even
after he arrived in England it took him
another four or five centuries to gain a
real footing in stern and wild Scotland,
where now, as in Ireland, he abounds.
H. G. Wells, in some of his fascinating
stories of primitive man, pictures the
rabbit in England 40,000 years ago. But
he wasn’t there ; even the ancient Britons
knew him not.
* * * *
“Sheersmyth”: I think “Turoar (B.
10/6/’36) slips when he accuses Warner
Bros, of an anachronism in making Cap-
tain Blood fly the Jack of Great Britain.
“Turoar” will find that this Jack (formed
by the combination of the crosses of St.
George and St. Andrew) was first used in
England in 1606, three years after the
union of the crowns, when James VI. of
Scotland became James I. of England,
but the Scots refused to recognise the
hybrid flag. The terms of the Act of
Union of 1707, however, made the Union
Jack the national flag of Great Britain.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The letters on cricket
contributed to a Sydney paper by Neville
Cardus contain many eulogiums of
famous cricketers of the past, with, of
course, “W.G.” leading. It has always
been a surprise to me that Cardus, though
a Lancashire man, never seems to have
heard of A. G. Steel, who in his brief
day was rated, in the north of England
at least, as Grace’s equal as a bat and
his superior as a bowler. Steel was prob-
ably the greatest all-rounder British
cricket has produced, and his admirers
could never determine whether he was
greater as a bowler or a batsman. His
cricket career was limited to school and
university, with a few years when he
was reading for the Bar, after admission
to which he dropped the game for his
profession, to die Recorder of Liverpool.
On his one Australian tour Steel topped
both batting and bowling averages, tak-
ing most wickets and making most runs.
Among his team mates were W. W. Read,
C. T. and C. B. Studd, Bates, Barlow,
Vernon, Ivo Bligh and other notables.
Australians who batted and bowled
against him were Murdoch, Horan,
Massie, Alec Bannerman, Giffen, Mc-
Donnell, Garrett, Palmer, Boyle and
“Spoff.” In Tests, Steel averaged 35.29
with the bat against “W.G.’s” 32.29. He
took 29 wickets at 20.86.


Stay in the Centre
of MELBOURNE
Rooms from 4/- to 16-
„ui , s
lIS* M
III*»
M T
Located beside Melbourne Town
Hall, the Victoria is Aus-
tralia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Un-
rivalled catering. Moderate
“Room Only” tariff —Singles,
4/- to 7/0; Doubles, 8/- to
16/- per day. Write Dept. B 9
tor free illustrated booklet.
mm
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
AU STR ALI A’S .LARGEST NON-j,! CEN SED HOTEL
rf t*L
rtf
lIIIM
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
mm
; fc
BUSINESS, ROBBERY,ETC.
C. A. Parrett, Company Director
Colliss A. Parrett, who in 1925 pro-
moted the Home Provident Association
(now in liquidation), figured at length
in a judgment given by Lukin, J., in an
action under the Federal company law
last week.
H. B. Robinson, of Armidale (N.S.W.),
sought to have his name removed from
the register of the Federal Insurance
Corp., Ltd., in connection with 1000
shares taken by him. In a cross-action
the co. claimed £4OO and interest, said
to be due in calls on the shares.
Verdict was for Robinson on both
counts. The Judge said Robinson haa
been induced by false representations to
apply for shares ; and directed that an
inquiry be held as to what damage, if
any, had been sustained by him through
the defendant co.’s fraud and deceit.
The Federal Insurance Co., said his
Honor, was promoted by Parrett in
October, 1933. One clause of the co.’s
constitution was “a trap for the unwary.”
Capital was £lOO,OOO in 99,950 £1 ords.
and 1000 management shares of a shil-
ling each. The management shares con-
trolled the business and the co., and
holders of these alone were eligible to
be directors. Holders of the ords. had
no vote, no voice in the management and
no right of access to books and accounts.
The management shares took 25 p.c. of
the profits.
Parrett, the Judge proceeded, was not
honest, and was unhesitating in his
obviously false explanations. His Honor
was forced to conclude that Parrett “did
not hesitate to manipulate entries in the
minute book and place therein and read
therefrom what suited his purpose.” And,
“he seems to have made the co. a philan-
thropic institution for certain of his un-
employed friends.” Also, at one time,
“the co. was doing no business—not even
selling shares. The co. never had done
anything other than sell shares.”
Parrett was made managing director
of the co. for five years at £lO4O a
year, plus exes., in Dec., 1935—at a
time when the co. “was threatened with
trouble.” The contract allowed him to
become director or managing director of
any other co.
The General Insurance Corp., Ltd.,
was mentioned during the case. The
prospectus of this co. and that of the
Finance and Insurance Corp., Ltd., were
criticised in The Bulletin of March 11.
Parrett appeared on the board of both
cos. The General Co. was registered in
Canberra on Sept. 5, 1935, and the F.
and I. Corp. in N. S. Wales on Jan. 16,
1936. Nominal capital in each case was
£lOO,OOO in 99,950 ords. of £1 each and
1000 B ords. of a shilling.
Neither prospectus was a full and fair
invitation to investors. The General Co.
aimed at carrying on motor-insurance,
making a feature of extended payment
of premiums. The Finance Co. was to
discount hire-purchase p.ns. and to in-
sure motor-cars. Each document quoted
figures of a “Victorian insurance co.”
showing a profit of 54 p.c. on capital
identical with those of Automobile Fire
and General Co. Each prospectus was
deficient to the extent that it failed to
mention that the Automobile Co.
started off in 1922 with the valuable
patronage of the Victorian Royal Auto
dub—a connection severed about eight
years ago, but now partly compensated
for by the insurances of the United
Travellers’ Association and the “Herald”
Touring Club. Neither of Parrett’s cos.
had the support of these bodies nor was
likely to get it.
In the Bulletin review it was stated
Assuming that profits are earned, the £5O-
- of B shares in the F. and I Corp.
(subscribed before the prospectus was
issued) are entitled to a cut of 10 p.c. of
the total earnings available for dividend.
The G.I.C. Bs take 20 p.c., and the
public isn’t offered any of this privileged
class of scrip.
In the case of the Finance and Insurance
Corp., 50 shilling Bs (par value £2 10s.) are
the qualification of a director; a member
of the public has to put up £250 in ords.
before he is eligible.
The latter co. asked for a premium of
2s. 6d. on its ord. shares!
A passage from the General Co.’s
prospectus and The Bulletin’s com-
ment :
“Given able and careful management,
which is assured as a result of the directors’
securing the services of Mr. Parrett
under a term agreement, the shareholders
of the G.I.C. can feel quite confident of
having a gilt-edged investment.” Details
of the contract are not in the prospectus;
and Mr. Parrett, in any case, should be
aware that not one new float in a thousand'
can be termed gilt-edged.
Shareholders in this co. —the scrip was
hawked as far as Bendigo—were noti-
fied, under date 31/3/’36 and signature
of “C. A. Parrett,” that they would “be
pleased” to learn that the General Co.
had bought all the issued shares, except
“I Was just Wondering if you'd care to buy some of my humorous sketches
for your paper.”
five, in the Commonwealth and Com-
mercial Insurance Co., Ltd.
Our co. is in control, and for all prac-
tical purposes owns the same.
The C. and C. I. Co. was registered in
1930, and had carried on business since
that date, according to the circular.
Your directors are confident that an era
of profit-producing has arrived such as
will enable the G.I.C. to become an early
dividend-payer.
The circular didn’t mention what profits
(if any) the acquisition had earned to
date or what the price was. This page
pointed out that “articles of association
which allow shareholders to ‘learn’ of
the purchase of another concern only
after the contract has been completed
should be remedied at once.”
The co.’s circular finished with the
appeal:
Your directors desire to impress on all
shareholders the absolute necessity of meet-
ing share payments promptly, as they fall
due, so that the expansion of the co. will
be such as to gratify shareholders and
ensure the greatest possible return.
Judge Lukin’s comments touched prin-
cipally on Parrett and the Federal Co.
Exactly what Parrett’s interest in the
General Co. and F. and I. Co. are, apart
from being managing director of one
and a director of the other, this paper
doesn’t know. But it does know that the
capital construction of these cos. is in
important respects similar to that of the
Federal Co., which the Judge so strongly
criticised ; and it believes that the assur-
ance in the General Co.’s prospectus
that shareholders “can feel quite confi-
dent of having a gilt-edged investment”
might under an adequate Companies Act
be regarded as something other than
mistaken optimism.
Aust. Iron and Steel is buying 1660
acres at Port Kembla from the N.S.W.
Government for £55,000. A condition is
that £1,000,000 must be spent on it within
five years. B. H. Prop, owns all the
ords. in the Steel Co. ; the land should
give ample space for the extension of
present and new ranges of manufactures.
The proposed formation of a co.,
backed by B.H. Prop., General Motors-
Holden’s and B.H. Associated Smelters
(representing North 8.H., B.H. South,
Zinc Corp. and Electrolytic Zinc), to
make aircraft in Australia, was indicated
here some time ago. Nominal capital
will be £1,000,000, and Tugan Aircraft,
in which some of the Carpenters are in-
terested, will come into the scheme. The
new undertaking will have some of the
most capable and resourceful connec-
tions in the Commonwealth. How
Broken Hill money continues to quicken
new industries!
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop. £1 shares rose to
over 735. last week. In the term to May
31, 1935, the co. earned 22.4 p.c. on
£2,987,708 of capital, paid 10 p.c. and
lifted its div. for the financial year just
ended to 12y p.c. In the past twelve
months 750,000 £1 shares have been
issued in exchange for the Aust. Iron
and Steel ords., and shareholders have
taken 1,493,854 new shares at a premium
of 10s. When all the new capital is in,
the share register will total £5,231,562.
It will be some time, however, before
all the money is called up. But the 1935
profit would have paid 12| p.c. on the
total and left £41,000 for reserves.
Profits will be up for 1936 ; there was a
20 p.c. increase in output. Meanwhile
the co. has about £1,250,000 of capital
on its books that is temporarily “dead”
from a shareholders’ viewpoint. When
Aust. Iron and Steel and the new tin-
plate wor£s start adding to the Newcastle
steelworks’ earnings the position should
become considerably more attractive.
With the present contributing shares
fully paid, 1 p.c. movements in the div.
would account for £52,300 p.a.
5k s«i s|:
In B. 25/ 3/ ’36 a list of ord. shares
then giving yields of better than 4 p.c.
was published. All are concerns of a
number of years’ establishment, though
some have demonstrated more consis-
tent earning power than others. It is in-
teresting to note market movements in
these stocks since mentioned:
Price.
( ,
19/3/’36. 19/6/’36.
Castlemaine-Perkins 26/- c.r. 2S/-x.r.
Australasian Paper 36/6 85/6
Australian Cement ■. 30/ 29/3
Australian Knitting 28/9 9/6*
Broken Hill Prop 61/- 73/-
Pavid Jones 43/6 46/-
Fairymead Sugar 37/6 48/-
Gordon and Goteh 47/0 50/-
Henry Jones 39/6 41/3
Kandos Cement 24/- 22/
Millaquin Sugar 38/- 44/-
Myer Emporium 32/- 32/6
Prestige 17/6 21/
Yarra Falls 41/- 40/6
* After capital reduction.
Castlemaine-Perkins, allowing for the new
issue rights, has improved about Is. Aus-
tralasian Paper, possibly because of the
flotation of a new paper co. in Tas. (to
make fine writing and printing papers,
however, and not Kraft) has dropped
Is. Support for Australian Cement
and Kandos has been demoralised since
the British tariff was reduced. Austra-
lian Knitting, allowing for the distribu-
tion of Yarra Falls scrip, shows marked
improvement. Broken Hill Prop, stands
out most with a rise of 12s. in
three months, following a year of record
output and indications of a further spread
in activities. Fairymead Sugar is mak-
ing a bonus issue, Gordon and Goteh
has lifted its ord. div. by 2 p.c. (to 12
p.c.), and Prestige Hosiery its handout
by 2\ p.c. (to \2\ p.c.). Yarra Falls,
ex div., is stronger. All stocks in the list
have appreciated bar the cement cos. and
Australasian Paper.
* • * * *
The public took £7,200,000 of the
Commonwealth 3f p.c. loan, issued at
£9B 10s. The underwriters—Common-
wealth Bank, trading banks and insur-
ance cos. —will have to take the re-
mainder. Public borrowing must mod-
erate unless it is to become an even
greater menace to a stable national
economy than it is at present.
* * * *
In the 10 months to April 30 Aus-
tralia exported 3,329,000 gallons of
wine, valued in our currency at £841,600.
In the same period of last year the
figures were 3,085,000 gallons and
£741,703. Australians also are becoming
more wine-minded. Some of our dry
wines are much in demand.
5k 5k >k sjc
Lysaght’s Newcastle works are to turn
out motor-body sheet's. Arrangements
have already been made for putting down
the plant; with extensions to the gal-
vanised-iron mills the capital outlay will
be over £500,000.
-I* sjc }{C 3j{
Selfridges (Aust.), Ltd., the N.S.W.
chain-store co., which asked for £41,131
of new ord. capital a week or two ago,
got it in without trouble. The old shares,
unlisted, were selling at 28s. last week.
* * * *
The seriousness of things in France
was shown in the flight of capital from
that country a week or two ago and the
run on the franc, which is gold-backed
money. The English pound soon became
worth more in the exchanges, and gold
less. The yellow metal fell to below £6
19s. per fine ounce in London —equal to
around £8 13s.' in Australian currency,
allowing for freight, insurance, etc. For
many months the London price rarely
fluctuated more than a few pence around
£7 Is.
* * sis
“C. Ville”: There are several mysteries
in the telegraph rates. (B. 3/6/’36).
Usually one expects a discount for quan-
tity, but the P.O. charges a higher rate
per word for a long telegram than for
a short one. The charge for a 16-word
telegram within the State is Is., but for
a 32-word telegram the charge is 2s. 4d.
The postal charges, too, are utterly
illogical. To send a 61b. parcel from
Perth to Maoriland costs 3s. 2d. ; from
Perth to Sydney, ss. ; from Melbourne
to Sydney, 3s. 6d. I can send a packet
weighing 16oz. from Sydney to Perth
for Bd., but if the packet were to weigh
a fraction over 16oz. the P.O. would call
it a parcel and charge me 2s. If I make
the goods into two packets, one weigh-
ing under Boz. and the other under lOoz.,
the total postage would be only 9d.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Published profits of Robert Harper and Co
were £5050 lower at £37,270. The ord. div.
was maintained at 8 p.c., and £5170 carried to
reserves.
Wheat was firmer, being quoted at 3s. Bd. on
trucks, Williamstown.
Emperor announced a crushing of 1940 tons,
head values being 11.9dwt. This is the first
steadying in the downward trend of values for
months. The scrip attracted little interest
around 12s. 9d.
Loloma shares weakened to below 18s.
Lady Shenton (Menzies, W.A.) slipped to
35., the lowest quote on record.
Victorian gold shows had a quieter market,
Central Nell Gwynne sticking around 395.
Deborah, another Bendigo show, after touch-
ing 20s. 6d., fluctuated down to 18s. 6d. New
Chum Syncline was a trifle easier. Morning
Star (Wood’s Point) was steady around 3s.
!od. Wattle Gully (Chewton) .was firm;
Gordon (Bolwarrah) was lower.
Triton (Cue, W.A.) shares fell to 125., the
lowest price for months. Last crushing gave
lower recoveries. If ore reserves have been
correctly appraised, however, the market should
firm again.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHAPOW
SHOWS
“Give Us This Night”
Merely a vehicle, on woefully hack-
neyed lines, for the singing of Jan Kie-
pura and the singing-p/ws-charm of
Gladys Swarthout. Jan is a young Italian
fisherman, given to declaiming long arias
while he trawls for sardines. Philip Meri-
vale is an Italian composer who has
scored a new operatic version of
“Romeo and Juliet.” Of course, Jan’s
wonderful voice is discovered (“a fine
natural voice, but untrained,” says the
composer cruelly, after Mr. Kiepura has
gone through his whole bag of sophisti-
cated tricks), and he becomes the Romeo
in the new opera, falls in love with the
Juliet (Miss Swarthout), is missing on the
Jean Hersholt in “The Country Doctor,”
at Sydney Regent.
opening night, because he has discovered
that his benefactor, the composer, also
loves Juliet, but turns up in the nick of
time to save the situation, the tenor hastily
engaged as his deputy (Alan Mowbray)
being very drunk. The operatic arias are
by Oscar Hammerstein 11, and, while they
are eminently singable, scarcely compete
with the essays on the same theme by
Berlioz, Gounod and Bellini. Kiepura is
in good form and records well, but, as
usual, he overdoes the tremolo and en-
deavors to make endurance records on
his high notes. Miss Swarthout’s pleasant
little voice is every now and then strained
beyond its limits. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“Mary Burns, Fugitive”
Mary, a pretty lass who ran a rural
coffee-house, (Sylvia Sydney), got mixed
up quite innocently with a Public Enemy
of high rank (Alan Baker), who said
he was in the oil business and wanted
to marry her. He was surprised by G-
men in her house, and made a getaway.
She was sent to gaol to do 15 years’ penal
servitude as an accessory to his many
killings. The police arranged for her
escape from prison, believing she would
lead them to the gangster. Instead, she
got work in a hospital and won the heart
of an eccentric but very wealthy explorer
(Melvyn Douglas) by her skill as a
coffee-brewer. After some moving ad-
ventures, the Public Enemy is shot dead,
and the way is clear for less exciting
romance. The explorer, being, as already
stated, very wealthy, easily gets that 15
years’ sentence annulled “in Washing-
ton.” Miss Sydney has a pleasant voice
and a sense of humor, and fills her role
admirably ; Douglas is at his best. A
strong feature is Baker’s portrayal of
the killer. He has a flat, monotonous
voice that is never raised, and it sounds
sinister. Also at the Prince Edward.
“The Singing Kid”
The celluloid has at last produced the
world’s Public Pest No. 1—no! you’re
wrong ; A 1 Jolson ranks second. No. 1 is
a dusky gent, named Cab Calloway. At
sight and sound of him a sigh will go up
from filmgoers for the good old days of
Simon Legree.
No more frightful cacophony has ever
rumbled off a screen than that per-
petrated, vocally and extracted from his
alleged band, by Mr. Calloway. The
temporary alliance of A 1 and Cab is the
last word in musical awfulness. The
plot—with apologies to that outraged
noun —is a replica of that used in the last
42 of Hahlywood’s radio-favorite films.
Al is an enormously wealthy radio
crooner and stage-star (to show how
affluent he is he coughs up half a mil-
lion bucks to the Tax Department), and
is surrounded by a large personal staff
of gag-men, whisky-pourers, telephone-
answerers and coat-holders. He is on
top of the woild, but Bad Luck lurks
near by with a two-handed wallop. His
lawyer skips with his (Al’s) fiancee and
—worse —his wad, and then his Priceless
Voice goes phut (don’t raise false hopes
—it comes back, alas!). Al betakes
himself with two gag-men to the Wide
Open Spaces, there to nurse his bruised
soul and impaired larynx. Here True
Lurv comes to him —she is a beauteous
child of nature and a literary aspirant.
Of course she writes a dud play, which
Al arranges to be bought with his cash,
and when she finds out she bids him
begone. Al broken-heartedly takes his
dragging feet and renovated vocal chords
back to N’Yark, where Fame beckons
again. Follows the gyurl and recon-
ciliation.
Despite the Al-Cab combination, the
film has one or two good moments.
One is a clever political song-skit
delivered by the Four Yacht Club Boys.
The other is a joyous rhythmic satire
on Al’s propensity for mammy songs, also
by the F.Y.C.8., with Al. This latter is
the highlight of the show, and is bril-
liantly done. Edward Everett Horton’s
homely nonsense is a welcome oasis in
John Qualen in “The Country Doctor.”
a desert of raucous howlings and eccen-
tric antics. He and Al Jenkins, as two
gag-men who can’t coin gags, do their
best. Claire Dodd is the gold-digger
and Beverly Roberts the unsophisticated
sweetie. At Sydney Capitol.
“Road Gang”
Also at the Capitol. Americans may
recognise the unnamed State of the
Union at' whose penal system this ex-
posure film is aimed —for propaganda it
obviously is; and if conditions even
approximate those depicted they are cer-
tainly overdue for condemnation. Stark
realism is the keynote. Brutality has been
laid on liberally, and the prison officials
are showh as more villainous than their
charges.
James Larrabie (Donald Woods) has
revealed to a big Chicago paper the
machinations of the political crook in
charge of his county. On his way to
take up a staff appointment he and his
pal Bob (Carlyle Moore, jun.) are
Slim Summerville in “The Country
Doctor.”
arrested for speeding and thrown in the
county gaol. There they are framed for
complicity in the murder of the sheriff
and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment.
Bob is electrocuted on the prison fence
while trying to escape, and when James
is caught smuggling a story of prison
brutality out to his visiting fiancee, Bar-
bara (Kay Linaker), he is sent to the
Blackfoot mines for punishment. There
things are worse, but Barbara goes to his
paper (why the help of that powerful
organ was not invoked at the start is not
explained), and the editor gets the
Attorney-General to visit the mines.
The warden, on receipt of a habeas
corpus writ for James, ’phones under-
ground for the guards to “fix” James,
fearing his revelations. The plot is over-
heard, and James leads a riot in the
mine. When tear-gas bombs rain down
on the prisoners they blast their way out.
Follow a re-trial, pardon, indictment of
the political gang and reunion with
Barbara.
James Woods as the victim of in-
justice does splendidly, and he is well
supported by Carlyle Moore, jun. Kay
Linaker makes a neat job of a small
role. Addison Richards and Charles
Middleton are convincing as the un-
scrupulous prison officials, and Joseph
King and Henry O’Neill are the political
plotters. Though there are improbabili-
ties, the film has been slickly done, and
there are plenty of thrills in the climax.
“Mystery of the Wax Museum”
There is something fascinating in the
gruesomeness of this cleverly-constructed
thriller. Setting is an elaborate wax
museum, with the figures marvellously
realistic ; but these are as nothing com-
pared with the nth degree of realism
achieved by Lionel Atwill in his make-up.
His partner sets fire to their wax
museum in London for the insurance,
leaving Mr. Atwill to be burnt too. Atwill
escapes, but his face is burnt' unrecog-
nisably, and thereafter he wears a wax
mask.
Years later he opens another wax
museum in New York, the figures being
strikingly lifelike, though he is crippled
and unable to create them himself. The
reason for the extreme realism is exposed
by a live-wire girl reporter (Glenda
Farrell). It appears that the artistic gent.
pursues a monomaniacal habit of search-
ing for faces that resemble those of great
historical figures and then having their
owners murdered, embalmed, and treated
with wax. Dressed in period costume,
they adorn the morgue museum. The
rescue of a lovely girl (Fay Wray) from
a like fate forms a thrilling finale.
Lionel Atwill gives a gorgeous display
of histrionics and make-up, and his voice
is a delight. Glenda Farrell snoops
around basements and fires wisecracks
at her editor in the well-known Farrell
manner, and Frank McHugh roars her
up and slaps her on the back in the
screen habit of American editors. But it
is the Atwill face that dominates the film
—and the face beneath the mask, when
it is revealed, makes the Phantom of the
Opera look like Adonis. At Sydney
Lyric.
“Champagne Charlie”
An unusual feature is that the title-
role character (Paul Cavanagh) has been
dead for a year before the action of the
play commences, which necessitates
switching back into the past to put him
o» the stage. He was a gentleman ad-
venturer of uncertain age who exerted
his charm to win the hand and money-
bags of a millionairess (Helen Wood).
Discovering that the lady was the daugh-
ter of his former sweetheart (the Only
True Lurv that Entered his Life) he gave
her up and was assassinated by his Com-
panions in Crime. Later on, when the
millionairess had married a suitable mil-
lionaire of her own age (Thomas Beck),
one of the villains (Noel Madison —
Moscovitch’s son, who used to be Nat
when in Australia) attempts to blackmail
the lady, and meets a sticky end in cir-
cumstances thjjt put Champagne Charlie’s
erstwhile valet (Herbert Mundin), a
super-faithful soul, under suspicion of
murder. So the heroine has to tell the
whole story to the grim captain of a
liner. His stern eyes soften, and he agrees
to hush up the whole business. Action
is brisk and acting smooth. At Sydney
Regent.
“Murder on the Bridle-path”
Why the insane butler of the mur-
dered lady’s father-in-law should assas-
sinate her to get even with his employer,
Oscar Apfell in “Little Miss Nobody.”
who detested the lady, and why the lady’s
husband, though innocent, should go
through all the motions of guilt, are
matters insufficiently elucidated in this
thriller at Sydney Plaza. But these are
points that only occur on thinking back.
During the action the screen is entertain-
ingly filled with the most original and
amusing detective of this year’s crop—
Hildegarde Withers (Helen Broderick).
She’s the sister of the chief of the
homicide squad, and trots around with
him digging up by the bucketful clues
that he hasn’t the brains to look for.
Dialogue is full of food for chuckles,
and acting throughout is smooth and
efficient. At Sydney Plaza.
“The Tunnel”
This film, reviewed in The Bulletin
on its Melbourne appearance some weeks
ago, and now at Sydney Embassy, is a


flu I ***
A RADIO with NO B or
Batteries
Revolutionary . . .
Ahead of Its Time!
The introduction of the ASTOR 77 marks a new epoch in
Batteryless Receivers. Definitely here is the most advanced
Country Radio yet produced. Trouble-free reception . . . saving
in expense and anxiety ... all operating costs cut to an absolute
minimum. Tone equal to All-Electric Receiver.
ASTOS 77
Operating on an Ordinary 6-volt Accumulator
Only!
Total current drawn from the Accumulator only 1.1 amps. An
entirely new system builds up current to high voltage (200 volts)
to provide a B power supply equal to that of an All-Electric
Receiver. The constant replacement of B Batteries, costing
about 50/- each time, is therefore avoided.
ALL-ELECTRIC TONE, VOLUME, SELECTIVITY
AND DISTANCE.
Delayed Automatic Volume Control . . . Magnificent Cabinet
of latest design with Inclined Tuning Panel.
MODEL 77, D.-W. (Overseas Reception) ,
35 Guineas. With fi-volt accumulator.
MODEL 77 (Australian Reception),
30 (iumeas. With (i-volt accumulator.
TWO NEW ASTOR 1936 ALL-ELECTRIC MODELS:
Mickey Grand, £l4/19/6. Model 190, 7-valve Dual-wave, 33 Guineas.
Sole New South Wales Distributors:
and
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
712-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
SMITH, SONS & REES LTD.
30-42 WENTWORTH AVENUE,
SYDNEY.
peculiar mixture of brilliancy and medio-
crity. The conception is fine, and the
subterranean settings and mechanical
effects are the best yet seen in a “future”
film. But the acting is third-rate, and
the dialogue the worst since the screen
took on a voice.
Richard Dix is definitely on the down-
grade. His voice is blurred, and his chief
asset—his prognathous and truculent
jaw—is wilting before the onslaught of
avoirdupois. The Leslie Banks of
“Sanders of the River” is unrecognis-
able in this picture. It may be that the
dialogue has depressed him, but he gives
a painful exhibition. Madge Evans
doesn’t help, and Helen Vinson, as an
actress, is just a tennis champion’s wife.
C. Aubrey Smith is the only impressive
figure in the cast. What could have
been made the film of the year has been
spoiled by bad acting and worse script
writing.
Some First Nights
As much of Sydney as could pack
itself tightly into the city’s spacious Town
Hall greeted tenor Richard Crooks on his
first Australian appearance, and liked
him so much that it could be induced
to go home only at the end of two
hours, when the singer very firmly de-
claimed the National Anthem.
The individual characteristics of Mr.
Crooks’s singing are not easy to define.
His voice is of good timbre throughout
its range, though it is. not exceptionally
powerful. He has no tricks, mannerisms
or affectations ; that he should slip off
the ndte even by a hairbreadth is un-
thinkable. Every note, in any part of
the scale, is under complete and delicate
control. Mr. Crooks’s enunciation is
clearer than that of most operatic tenors,
and he sings Italian like a native. These
are high credentials. On the debit side
there is a lack of spontaneity and free-
dom. Everything is carefully metered,
measured and assessed to a thousandth
of a tone-unit, and even in such impas-
sioned outpourings as the “Per Pieta”
of Stradella or “E lucevan le stelle”
from “Tosca” the fires are carefully
banked.
However, it is a very pleasant voice
to listen to, and as Mr. Crooks unfolded
its versatile resources, commencing with
Bach and Beethoven, graduating into
opera and the lieder of Richard Strauss,
and concluding with some better-class
ballads, the enthusiasm of the audience
grew, and the respect of the most critical
analysts for the singer’s musical erudition
increased.
Frederick Schauwecker, Mr. Crooks’s
accompanist and a virtuoso of the piano-
forte in his own right, deserves a para-
graph to himself. Where his singing
associate measures tone-units in one-
thousandths, Mr. Schauwecker works to
tolerances (as the engineers would say)
of one-millionths. His pianissimo seems
quieter than silence. But he can make
the piano roar and storm, and in excerpts
from Brahms, Sibelius and Coleridge
Taylor he showed a genius for creating
atmosphere akin to that which he
displays in spreading unobtrusive back-
grounds for the voice. At the conclusion
of each of the big vocal numbers Mr.
Crooks shook his associate’s hand
warmly, and the tribute was well justi-
fied.
•b *b *b *b
The N. S. Wales State Orchestra fol-
lowed Maurice de Abravanel’s baton at
Sydney Town Hall one night last week,
and a big audience in the hall and a
larger one listening per radio heard some
fine music. First half was devoted to
Beethoven—the “Egmont” overture and
the Fifth Symphony, both done with
life and feeling. The familiar andante
melody of the Fifth Went through its
variations and transpositions without get-
ting flabbily sentimental; dignity was the
keynote. Fare in the second half was
very different, but even more interesting.
Eileen Joyce (who, by the way, seems to
share Percy Grainger’s aversion to
Beethoven) was soloist in a clever per-
formance of Dohnanyi’s “Variations on a
Nursery Rhyme.” The theme is a very
old, very simple folk-song. Mozart, in
whose time the air was known as “I’ll
Tell You, Mamma,” wrote some grace-
ful variations on it. In later years it has
been wedded in nursery songbooks to
“Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.” Dohnanyi
clothes it in elaborate and brilliant in-
strumentation, with a piano part that
makes heavy demands on technique. Miss
Joyce once again demonstrated that she
is the complete technician. The clarity
of her playing rather than its volume
crested the orchestra in concerted pas-
sages, and she sped through Dohnanyi’s
most merciless intricacies with the sure-
ness of a greyhound pursuing a hare.
The evening wound up with Elgar’s
“Enigma” variations, which were faith-
fully done but a little more enigmatical
in effect than the composer seems to
have intended.
»!•
La Meri must have been gratified at
the reception accorded her by Saturday
night’s audience at Melbourne Kings
when she opened her Australian season
of dance recitals. The programme was
a varied one —folk dances of Spain and
Latin America, impressions of India and
China, and modern interpretative dances
were presented with grace and feeling
and were enthusiastically received. La
Meri’s versatility is amazing. One
moment she is seen in all the haughty
dignity of an Andalusian Goyesca and
the next she slips easily into a delightful
character piece. In the Oriental section
of the programme the Nacni Nrrta, an
Indian dance in which her hands were
even more eloquent than her feet, was
outstanding.
Modern pieces included a visualisa-
tion of Griffes’s “The White Peacock,” a
faun and nymph study (assisted by
Laura Mollica), and Dvorak’s Humor-
esque.” In the lastnamed, by the use of
masks, variations in her steps and
appropriate gestures, she introduces
humor.
The costumes used in the national
dances were authentic and picturesque,
and the modern creations artistically and
appropriately designed.
Mario Salerno, at the piano, played
two solos —“Triana,” by Albeniz, and
Liszt’s “Rigoletto” Paraphrase—with
feeling, and, assisted by violin and ’cello,
provided a musical accompaniment for
the dancer.
-I- -I* -I* *
On Saturday night at Melbourne Town
Hall Herbert Davies loosed the cohorts
of the Malvern Choral Society, the
Mitcham Musical Society, the Baptist
Assembly Choir, the~Zelman Symphony
Orchestra and a posse of solQists on
Handel’s “Israel in Egypt.” The ora-
torio was written by the composer in 27
days ; it was first performed in 1739, and
this was claimed to be the first per-
formance of the work in its entirety in
Australia. Davies is a sensitive conduc-
tor, and the result was a performance of
unusual beauty. The song about the
frogs in the king’s chambers was sung
with feeling by alto Truda Russell ; tenor
Frank Mithen exhibited a fine voice in
the recitative “Then Sent He Moses” ; a
pair of baritones, Thomas George and
Harold Murphy, made a powerful duet
of the anthem “The Lord Is a Man of
War” ; and, though there was a note of
uncertainty in the voices of the two.
sopranos, the shadow they cast over the
work of the choruses was no bigger than
a man’s hand. The highlight of the
evening was the chorus “He sent a thick
darkness over the land, even darkness
which might be felt” ; and the darkness
was felt. Davies, by the way, has the
proud distinction of having made Mal-
vern Melbourne’s most musical suburb.
Since their inauguration in 1925 its
choralists have sung, among other
things, the complete “Messiah” and the
Ninth Symphony, and they have intro-
duced to Australia Dyson’s “Canterbury
Pilgrims” and a dozen other works.
Current Artbursts
Hilda Rix Nicholas’s pictures at David
Jones’s gallery, Sydney, make a brave,
cheerful show. Many of the canvases
depict, either as background or princi-
pal subject, gardens in a summer blaze
of glory. It is as a portraitist that the
artist commands most respect. “The
Brown Glove” is a masterpiece of posing
and painting, and “The Lute,’ in which
a Spanish lady plucks the strings, is
clever in its use of brilliant color and
in its rendition of texture. “The Fair
Musterer,” a girl and a horse with an
Australian landscape as background, is
a bit trite, and the horse’s rump is cut
off by the frame. The Shepherd of
Knockalong,” otherwise a n |”^ tor,<
Piece of composeion and Painting, a so
looks crowded, the feet of the two figuies
being partially cut by the fia •
Shearers,” unconvincing m its 1 ght.ng,
is otherwise more realistic than pic *,
a remark that also applies to The
Fleece.” In both, new-shorn wool is
wonderfully well depicted The Long
Room Window is a careM piece of in-
tenor painting, but there seems to be
insufficient contrast between the light in
the room and that emanating from the
sun-bathed landscape seen g _
window. Rose and Silver ,
painter’s best vein-—a gw in an y ,
with a not of colors all kept in har-
momc control. The an I ,
flower pieces that make up the res _
the show are gay and pretty, but don
show the very fine craftsmanship that
distinguishes the portraits,
* * *
In the British Empire Society ol Aits
exhibition at the Imperial Gallery, Lon-
Australian artists were well to the
fore Richard Colquhoun was repre-
sented by the head of a girl and a strik-
j self-portrait. An unusual impression
of “Guardsmen” is a water-color by
Greville Irwin. Two landscapes by
Queenslander Richard Hore, “Wool
Teams” an( t “Gold Diggers,” contrasted
s harply with his “Ludgate Hill.” George
Q unC an exhibited an oil, “Shenfield
church.” The wreck of the Herzogin
Cecilie added interest to paintings done
on board during a passage from Aus-
tralia to England by Dennis Adams.
This young artist also showed “Rust,”
an old hulk in Berrys Bay, Sydney,
Edgar Richard’s “Dancers” and “Moor-
ish Bridge, Ronda,” by Alison Rehfisch,
were features. Eileen Pearcy and Pearl
Sheldon were also represented.


u*
II
m
a
Lj
CHAMPAGNE
AR
S
cue
V
REIMS
m
PRY
StSLKCTH»
esTA9tfs«B&7BS
vmtAwss
1
N.S.W. Agents:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sixty thousand people went out to
Centennial Park on Saturday. The mag-
net was the royal review in honor of the
King’s birthday. In the sparkling air
the scarlet and gold, the blue of the navy,
the blue of the air force and the kilts
of the Highlanders marched and wheeled,
a colorful sight against the 15 acres of
undulating green occupied by the
manoeuvres. The last royal review held
in Sydney was in 1908, and that was on
the occasion of the birthday of King
Edward VII. Most of the eager on-
lookers on Saturday thought the mili-
tary might stage them a bit more often ;
but Authority whispers that a show like
Saturday’s costs between eight and nine
hundred pounds.
All the best horseflesh wasn’t at the
polo games. Major-General Charles
Rosenthal was mounted on a noble and
mettlesome steed for his inspection of the
troops. The arrival of Lieutenant-
Governor Street at the saluting base was
accompanied by ceremonial. The Union
Jack was flown, the National Anthem
was played, troops stood to attention and
the great masses of onlookers stood in
impressive silence. The firing of the
feu de joie and the flying of the Royal
Standard from the saluting base were the
thrills of the afternoon. The Royal
Standard can be flown only on such spec-
tacular occasions or when royalty is
present. Part of Saturday’s ceremonial
goes back to the Tudor age. After the
feu de joie all the troops gave three
cheers for the King, and Philip Street
took the salute.
Women seemed to do everything at
Kyeemagh on Saturday except knit or
play yo-yo. They exercised their dogs ;
they went about hatless, some making the
concession of swinging their bonnets by
the elastic, others not caring whether you
thought they had hats or not; one or two
had a game of ball on their own. Evi-
dently there is something in the seaside
air even if it does blow from Botany.
Bay. The sky was a speckless blue, and
Dudley Cup play zipped along, with
Scones, Assamanders, Nutcrackers and
Town and Country treating the balls and
the sward with great ferocity. More cars
than in any other year were parked
around the playing field, and these had a
full cargo of barrackers.- So had the
buses that drop their passengers afar off.
Margaret Allen and Phyllis Skene
again acted as linesmen. Daisy Osborne
was a bright’ smile above a daffodil scarf
and a navy suit. Suzanne and Jacqueline
Crookston both wore their lovely bronze
hair free to sun and breeze. With them
were mother and father and the dachs-
hund Gretchen ; Mrs. Cuthbert Sheldon
(in a suit of caramel stripes), Pamela
Dowling and Mary Harvey were others
who brought their dogs. Mrs. Victor
White’s scarlet patent leather scarf was
one of the day’s vivid memories ; among
the prettiest was Mrs. Lennox Bode in
her soft woollen suit of old rose worn
with a brown beaver hat. A coat of
beaver kept Mrs. James Ashton, senior,
warm ; young Mrs. James combined two
tones of blue.
Mustard yellow was Beatrice Meeks’s
suit, and Mrs. Harry Guinness wore one
of the few ponyskin coats present. Her
suit was brown, her hat a pale-blue felt.
Major and Mrs. Wordsworth, visitors
from India, watched the play with in-
terest. Her hat was brown and large and
droopy of brim, her frock of Marina-
blue angora. Mrs. Frank Crane, Mrs.
Frank Bragg and Mrs. Gordon Munro
were three good-lookers from the coun-
try ; Elizabeth Moore and Violet Tivey
were a bit of Melbourne. Mary Hor-
dern’s suit was of flecked tweed in terra-
cotta reds; her brown felt hat was a
Breton sailor. Thelma McMaster's coat
was summer ermine ; her hat and suit
were grey. Nuttie Mackellar and Joan
Waddell looked as sunny as the after-
noon.
For the opening concert of the Richard
Crooks season the seating at the Town
Hall was popular-tenor style. That is to
say, the rows of chairs were as close as
they could be short of suffocation. And
there wasn’t a vacant chair. Richard
looked immense, the pianist self-effacing.
They proved a happy combination, and
at the end of every group of songs the
singer and the player shook hands
warmly. At the end of each group, too,
Richard never failed to bow his acknow-
ledgments to his admirers tiered up at
his back on the platform.
Surgeon John McKelvey brought his
wife, and she was the most notable
frocker in a well-dressed audience. Her
frock of white satin was covered by a
fitting coat of black velvet that drew a
train and had silver fox for its collar and
silver foxes all down its front edges.
Mrs. Crooks had an old-world frock of
lake-blue satin. Its skirt was full; its
tight little bodice had tiny buttons up the
front to its flat, narrow collar of fur.
Daughter Patricia wore rose-red chiffons
covered with a white fur coat. She had
also pinned a white flower in her dark
hair. Mrs. E. J. Tait wrapped her slim
smallness in mink ; Mrs. E. Wunderlich’s
frock was blue satin ; Mrs. F. J. Davy’s
turquoise chiffons were frosted in
crystal. Artist Mrs. Edgar Wright (Hilda
Rix Nicholas) and her husband were
among the thousands who turned their
eyes towards the stage, which, inciden-
tally, was bordered with baby plants in
junior flower-pots.
Polo at Kyeemagh and its attendant
gaieties always draw crowds of socially-
minded countrymen and -women to Syd-
ney. One of this season’s most attractive
visitors is Mrs. Gordon Munro, of this
Monte Luke photograph.
The animals’ friend, Miss Compton
Legge, last week resigned from the job
of social secretary to the R.S.P.C.A.
Lost dogs who have known the care
and comfort of the King Edward Dogs’
Home owe many wags of the tail to
Miss Legge, for she was responsible
for its opening. The yearly R.S.P.C.A.
shop was also her idea. The society’s
president, W. G. Acocks, recalled the
retiring secretary’s acts of practical sym-
pathy when he handed her a cheque for
£5B and a basket brimming with flowers
at the party in her honor last week.
Betty Higgins and Mrs. Noel Hayton
surrounded the party at the Carlton with
music. Miss McDougall, the new secre-
tary, was welcomed. The gift of which
Miss Legge is perhaps the proudest *s
the tea-set from the Tailwaggers’ Club.
Mrs. Eric Sheller has been helping to
arrange the “turns” between dances for
the C.W.A. tea dance next Monday. This
will be at the Trocadero, and the com-
mittee is pledged not to sell more than
1000 tickets. Dame Eadith Walker is
taking an interest in this money-
raiser. At the moment Mrs. Eric
Sheller is enduring a few days in hos-
pital. Photograph from Dayne.
There was a non-stop party last week
at Elaine, the Hubert Fairfax home at
Double Bay. Starting with a music
programme it went on to tea, and from
that it turned into a buffet dinner dance.
The expenses of the C.W.A. Blue and
Gold Ball should be considerably light-
ened, for there was more than the quota
of 100 present at each of the junketings.
One of the prettiest things about the
party was the hostess’s dress. It was of
black chiffon with a lace yoke that
meandered down into the sleeves, and
upon the lace was a boldly-patterned de-
sign of Elizabethan ladies and gallants.
A rose-red chiffon hanky carried Delysia-
wise in the hand completed the picture.
Mrs. Humphrey Henchman and Anne
Gordon both arrived to dance combining
two tones of blue angora. Anne’s small
brimless hat in the newest manner wore
a flower in front. Betty Balfe’s blue taf-
feta had been caught in a shower of
silver coins. Violet Tivey was a visitor
from Melbourne.
More women than usual went out to
the Sheep Show this year; and with the
best of taste most of them wore tweeds.
It was as though, leaning over the pens
of Queenie and Lady Mora, they said
“What’s good enough for your coats is
good enough for ours.” Lady Mora and
Queenie were seated contentedly enough
among the merinos. Queenie had one
cause only of complaint: “It’s not fair
to a lady. They have got our age ticked
off to a minute in the catalogue.” Here
Lady Mora shrugged a fleecy shoulder
in a bored manner: “That’s the penalty
of being in Debrett.” Resolute men in
sunburned faces and topcoats parked glit-
tering cars and wandered from pavilion
to pavilion, watching with inscrutable
eyes while Southdowns, Corriedales,
Border Leicesters and Romney Marshes
allowed the judges’ hands to dive into
the unfathomed depths of their wool or
sat up on their haunches, rather like
overweight French poodles being taught
to beg.
A proud woman was Mrs. Frederick
Carr as she led the champion Romney
Marsh rams owned by her husband. A
small girl posed for the camera, one arm
flung in friendly fashion across a ram
with permanently waved horns. loan
Harrison, of Lowanna, Rylstone, still in
her teens, is an exhibitor ; so is Noreen
Dangar, and fresh-faced Doone Rousch,
from Canowindra, is another girl busied
with exhibits. The McMasters, of Dal-
keith, the Tony Horderns and the Prells,
of Crookwell, were among the shepherd-
king fraternity. Journalist Cora Hind,
from Canada, was a visitor. Mowbray
Alexander, from Crieff in Scotland, will
scarcely have the smell of the straw from
the Sydney show out of his nostrils
before he picks up the scent again at the
Buenos Ayres show.
University Women Graduates had a
celebrity night at this year’s reunion
dinner. Lady Hosie, Miss Cora E. Hind,
Mrs. Coralie Clarke Rees, Norma Parker
and Dymphna Cusack were among the
speakers, and at the table presided over
by the Mungo MacCallum lady were
Dame Constance D’Arcy, Isabel Fidler,
the Edgeworth David lady and Mrs. B.
Muscio. The Florentine ballroom at
Hordern Brothers’ was crowded for the
dinner, and among the academic high
lights that listened to Mrs. Coralie Rees s
reminiscences of G. K. Chesterton were
Mrs. Greg McGirr, Camilla Wedgwood
and Dr. Mary Booth. Much-travelled
Esmey Burfitt shared the feast of wit
and wisdom.
Bea McDonald was doing a job after
her heart when she spoke to women artists
at the Industrial Arts club on poets of
the twentieth century. Bea spoke extracts
from Bridges, Masefield, Flecker and
Sassoon in a way that would have de-
lighted the writers and melted the layer
of ice in which the winter morning had
been wrapped. This was the first of a
series of lectures the I.A. is launching.
Morning tea with hot crumpets rounded
off the talk. Gwen Nelson (Maoriland),
Violet Tivey, Mrs. Gordon Dixon, Jean
Cheriton, Mrs. W. A. Pirie and Mrs. de
Gruchy were among the poetry and
pekoe digesters.
The Polo Ball at Retford Hall, the
Anthony Hordern home at Darling Point,
proved all its organisers had planned.
Even the flax leaves used in its scheme
of decoration had a touch of sophistica-
tion ; they were gilded to live up to the
occasion. The ballroom being in the
garden, the path to it was awninged, an
ail of carnival being given by Chinese
lanterns and gay bunting. The flowers
were magnificent. In the ballroom the
red of poinsettia, the flame of yellow
pokers glowed in tall gold pedestals from
which trails of nasturtiums swung almost
to the floor. The decorations of the
marquee alongside were green and gold,
and in the supper-room were pink and
mauve sweet-peas, pink and blue lac-
quered leaves.
Mrs. Tony Hordern’s frock was a shim-
mering affair of deep-blue velvet; its
cape of chiffon was edged with blue
ostrich feathers. Orchids and pearls were
further richness. Velvet, too, was worn
by Mrs. Harry Meeks, her choice deep
green. Black velvet was graceful |s dis-
played by Mary Hordern; another
wearer of black velvet was Barbara
Warry. With her was Marjorie Wilson,
of Brisbane. Philippa Stephen’s black
chiffons were complete with cape. All
in gold was Beatrice Meeks; blue moire,
long and full and made with a basque,
was Pamela Laidley Dowling’s frock.
With over 800 subscribers the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra had quite a gala
opening to its series of concerts.
Mrs. Walter Swinson wore embroid-
ered moires in tones of red and
grey. Betty Shannon came with the
Alexander Gordon lady, Anne Gordon
being torn between the buffet dinner at
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s and “A Manne-
quin in Paris,” her new broadcast.
Peggy Carruthers was a pretty listener,
her brown velvet coat wearing a deep
cape of fitch. Mrs. M. Dalton, of
Orange, was handsome in furs and bur-
gundy chiffons ; Alix Lamb got a mid-
night-blue effect from black marquisette
over blue satin; Mrs. A. G. Thomas
wore parchment moires. Trix Tange was
noticed ; so were the three Cleary girls
with their mother and commissioner
father. Mrs. De Abravanel, whose hus-
band conducted the orchestra, kept the
night wind from her hair with a pearly
Juliet cap. In short, all the fashionables
were there, and pianist Eileen Joyce, who
wore the most becoming dress of her
season, received so many recalls that
there was quite a traffic block in the
programme. Her frock, full and spread-
ing, was of love-in-the-mist blue taffeta,
girdled with pink, mauve and blue
flowers.
Contralto Dorothy Helmrich, touring
Australia under A.B.C. management, has
sung in every country of Europe, except
Russia, and her first engagement after
she leaves Australia will be in that land
of steppes and Volga boatmen. Dorothy
doesn’t wear black on the concert plat-
form ; her frocks are flame or golden in
tone. When in London she lives at the
Tower, so she can go and feast her. eyes
on the Crown jewels every day if she de-
sires. She has been welcomed and fare-
welled in the one breathless round of
cocktail and sherry parties. The A.B.C.
said its “so long” at a late : afternoon
party on Monday, before the singer left
for Brisbane.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
4
H
m
Is
m.
ft a
It if!■? Al
m
m*
81
Is
Ifcjl
35 i
kM
iUJ
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfas*-- from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
m mm
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: Tlie Union.
m
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
In Equity.
No. 362 of 1936.
BETWEEN DOROTHY HUMPHRIES,
Plaintiff
And WILLIAM THOMAS ROLAND
HUMPHRIES, GEORGE SAMUEL
HUMPHRIES, RICHARD McGRATH
and THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, Defendants.
TO THE ABOVENAMED DEFENDANT
WILLTAM THOMAS ROLAND HUM-
PHRIES. . «
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Plain-
tiff has commenced a suit against you by State-
ment of Claim filed in this Equitable Court
on the twenty-fourth day of April One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-six claiming a
declaration that the sum of Seven hundred
and five pounds eight shillings (£705/8/-) and
interest thereon now standing in the name of
the Defendant Richard McGrath as Trustee of
the Will of the late Susannah Humphries for
you in the Yass Branch of the Defendant Bank
stands charged with the payment of One thou-
sand and thirty-five pounds four shillings and
threepence (£1035/4/3) being the amount of a
Judgment for arrears of maintenance and being
the amount referred to in a certain Order
Absolute obtained by the Plaintiff against you
and an order that the said sum of Seven hun-
dred and five pounds eight shillings (£705/8/-)
and interest be paid to the Plaintiff and also
claiming such further and other relief as the
nature of the case may require AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by an Order
made in the said suit on the twelfth day of
June now instant by the Honourable David
Maughan a Judge appointed to sit in Equity
the Plaintiff was given liberty to effect service
of the said Statement of Claim on you by
notice advertised in this newspaper and by
service of a certified copy of the Statement of
Claim on Messrs. Lamaro and McGrath 104
Hunter Street Sydney AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that you are by the said Order
allowed sixteen days after the publication of
this Notice to file your appearance to the said
Statement of Claim. A copy of the said
Statement of Claim may be had by you free
of charge on application to either of the under-
signed.
PHILLIPS & CO., Solicitors for the Plain-
tiff, Yass.
By their Sydney Agents:
C. M. MARSH & HARVEY, Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
So interested was Lady Huntingfield in
the demonstration arranged by the handi-
crafts and home industries committees of
the C.W.A. that she paid two visits to
the Lower Town Hall on the first day.
Her morning inspection was to see the
goods before the crowd arrived; her
afternoon visit was to declare the exhibi-
tion open. Retiring president Miss E.
Grice, president-elect Mrs. W. E. Sar-
good and the chairman of handicrafts
and home industries committee, Mrs.
Oswald Syme, were among other officials
behind the holly-edge balustrade of the
official balcony.
The quality and design of hook-work
rugs has reached a very high standard.
Jn the variety of shapes and sizes which
rouse home-making emotions in the
hearts of every visitor are large rugs
suitable for covering the whole floor of
a smallish room and all manner of
oblongs and circles down to an envy-
provoking little mat in two blues, black
and stone-color which will be the attrac-
tion of some cosy corner. Among the
furs and skins are rugs, mats and coats,
calfskin gloves and bags and articles
made from crocodile skin.
A new idea among raffia and rush-
work Was a sweet-smelling flower basket
made from lavender stalks grown and
woven by Miss Couchman, of Woodend.
That the country women are capable of
mastering difficult crafts was shown in
the pottery section, where color sense,
ingenuity and careful handling have
turned out some excellent pieces. One
quaint example was a jug decorated with
frogs, not just hopping frogs, but
amphibians who sat up and walked on
their two feet like real little gentlemen.
Needlewomen produced every kind of
work from delicate fine embroidery to
bold designs and large, laborious patch-
work quilts. One such quilt caught the
roving eye with its unusual design. Back-
ground and lining were plain white cloth,
and the bright patterning was provided
by interlocking inch-wide circular rims
made from small pieces of gaily-patterned
material joined neatly together. Down-
filled cushions, silk dressing-gowns,
lightly padded to suggest rather than pro-
vide warmth, knitted wear, tapestry and
furniture were other examples of women's
industry.
It was difficult to choose a favorite
among the toys, but sitting-up rabbits, all
pink paws and ears, and an Aberdeen
terrier so realistic that a scrap might
happen if ever he comes face to face with
a real Scotchy stole a corner of many
hearts. A novelty which deserves a line
to itself was an ingenious footwarmer
for motoring. Made from part of an old
hood, it was lined with a piece of dis-
carded coat, decorated with fur and made
snug with a button-over lid. It looked
large enough to hold a hotwater-bag as
well as a small pair of feet.
It was polar bears’ weather on Saturday
night for the dance at The Lakes Golf
Club, Upper Beaconsfield. In spite of the
fire, big enough to cook an ox, which
blazed in the enormous fireplace, many of
the girls danced in their fur coats, and
at supper time everybody grabbed food
and drink and, armed with cups, glasses
and plates, squeezed in as closely as pos-
sible to the glowing logs. It was very
much a hunting party, and as a prelimi-
nary about 40 people, mostly hunting
folk, had dinner at the Upper Beacons-
field Hotel, with John Peel and his horn
present from the soup onwards.
Booby traps of bog had to be
negotiated from gate to clubhouse ver-
andah, and cars which did not sink slowly
and gracefully into the mud had to come
to the rescue of their incapacitated neigh-
bors. Among the dancers were Doris
Foster and Bill Stocks, who lost count of
all the toasts which were drunk in honor
of their engagement; the Mark Grahams,
the Roy Johnstons (she in one of her
black velvet trousseau gowns), Fairlie
Hagenauer, the tall Jim Paxtons (Mrs.
Paxton in black, with a white flower in
her hair), the Charles Buckleys, the Denis
Moores and Mr. and Mrs. Curteis
Crawford.
One afternoon last week the directors
of Mcllwraith McEacharn, Commander
F. J. Smith and his officers and crew
were at home in the Kanimbla. Kitchen
staff and engine-room shift were sub-
jected to constant inspections, for after-
noon-tea was served in both first- and
second-class dining-rooms with every-
body wandering ad lib. from one to the
other and pausing on the way to ask
questions about ovens, apple-peelers,
mechanical wash-up machines and a
large shiny piece of apparatus which
turned out to be a dough mixer. As to
the mechanically-minded, they had no
stairs to climb on the way to the engine-
room —for the “works” seem to be as
accessible as any other part of this com-
fortable ship.
For sculptor Wallace Anderson the
work of eighteen months culminated in
the cold winter sunshine of Saturday after-
noon in the King’s Domain, when Lord
Huntingfield unveiled his statue “The
Man with the Donkey.” The memorial
(made possible through public subscrip-
tions) is cast in bronze, and, sanctions or
no sanctions, arrived safely back from
Italy. When he commenced this piece of
work Mr. Anderson advertised for a
donkey to act as model, but, as no
donkey owners replied, he became a
season-ticket visitor to the Zoo, where he
made scores of sketches of donkeys. The
actual modelling was done in the studio
from these sketches.
Private Simpson (his real name was
Fitzpatrick) was an Englishman who was
working as a fireman in the Kooringa
when he enlisted. From the landing at
Gallipoli, April 25, to May 19, 1915, when
they were killed by shrapnel, Simpson
and his donkey carried on their plucky
work of taking water to and rescuing
the wounded. General Chauvel, who was
a speaker at the unveiling ceremony, saw
the pair, and was amazed that they ever
returned from any trip to No Man’s
Land. He doesn’t know for certain where
Simpson got his donkey, except that
officially he “acquired” it and paid for
it out of his own pocket.
Herewith a Broothorn portrait of Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Tait’s eldest daughter
Joan, who recently has become engaged
to Frank Masters. Both Miss Tait and
her fiance follow the pursuit of broad-
casting, hers chiefly journalistic, his pro-
gramme-arranging ; thus their work is
chiefly behind the scenes rather than over
the ether. Mr. Masters is the only son
of Mrs. A. G. C. Masters, of Brighton.
Something new to the world of Mel-
bourne theatres were the spurts of light
flames from matches and cigarette-
lighters in the darkness of the King’s on
Saturday night. Such was the interest in
La Meri’s interpretations that between
each number everybody wanted to read
and remember the annotations on the
programme. The costumes worn by this
dancer are exquisite. In the national
costumes every detail is authentic, and
wherever possible genuinely of the period.
Jewellery, rare, old and valuable, is
often worn ; it is a necessary accessory
to the dancer’s wardrobe, part of the
atmosphere which creates moods all-
important in the particular branch of the
art in which she excels. La Meri’s white
peacock costume in which she is a white
peacock, for she lives every moment of
each dance, is a superb creation of
featherweight velvet. In “Faunesque,” in
which she is assisted by Laura Mollica
as a nimble green-and-gold nymph, her
scraps of black sheepskins, orange wig
and wicked green horns are part of the
poem of a young faun’s dance.
Included in La Meri’s stage property
are black drop-curtains arranged singly
as would be pieces of scenery and off-
white felt to cover the floor of the stage,
Among first-night spectators were Eunice
Weston in cherry velvet, Mrs. Fred Thiel
wrapped in Persian lamb, the Kent
Hughes couple, Suzanne Riddiford in
black velvet to her toes, Betty Walker
with ringlets over her forehead and an
ermine cape to her knees and the Robert
Best couple and their Roberta, excited
about their news from England, for
Helene is to be married on August 1 to
a Harley-street specialist, Dr. J. H.
Mellottee.
The smile and dimple caught here by a
Dickenson-Monteath camera belong to
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Freney’s only
daughter Yvonne (or Peggy, as she is still
known to her relatives and the friend of
her kindergarten days). Although Miss
Freney has not yet had her twentieth
birthday, she is doing capable and re-
sponsible work as assistant to R. K.
Whately, director of the Vocational
Guidance Centre. There psychological
tests are conducted to determine the
ability and discover the talents (often
latent) of individuals. Records show that
during the centre’s short existence 1400
people aged between three and sixty have
been examined. Advice has been given
to parents about the kind of livelihoods
in which their children should be most
successful, and adults have been shown
the key to their problems of work.
Miss Freney comes of a clever family.
Her two brothers, who were educated at
St. Peter’s, Adelaide, are progressive
young men, both doing well in their lines
of work. Six years ago elder brother Dick
was on his way to Bradford to continue
his study of wool. He broke his journey
to see something of South Africa, an
opportunity came his way, he changed his
plans and accepted a position with the
Farmers’ Co-operative Union. He is now
living in East London, and doing very
well indeed.
Younger brother Ray, a B.Sc., and
under contract with the C.5.1.R., was
stationed until recently at Canberra. This
week he commences work at the Mc-
Master Lab. in Sydney. A few years
ago he won a research scholarship, had
a trip abroad and experienced some ad-
ventures getting about Europe on a mini-
mum of money. He found that countries
on well-beaten tourist tracks were plain
sailing; it’s in the Balkans, where no
ordinary language is any use at all, where
fun begins. Mr. Freney is quite con-
vinced that a resourceful traveller, if he
knows the ropes, can get from London
to Constantinople for a little over £lO.
Not for a very long time has the
National Gallery drawn such a large
crowd as it did on the first afternoon
of the Orpen Exhibition. The Governor,
who made the opening speech, shared
the temporary dais erected in the Mc-
Allan Gallery with Lady Huntingfield
and Alfred Bright, president of the Gal-
lery trustees. Orpen was 53 when he
died, “and that’s not old,” said Lord
Huntingfield, divulging his own age, “for
I’m 53, and I hope I’m not an old man
yet.” Among particularly interested
spectators were Mr. and Mrs. Hylton
Dale. They knew the Orpen family
well, for when very young their children
and those of the famous artist played
together, the families living in adjoin-
ing streets.
Orpen was a rapid worker. The sit-
ting for his portrait of R. D. Elliott
lasted only an hour. Over the first' Pav-
lova, painted in 1920, artist and dancer
had a temperamental clash, and Anna
made a tempestuous exist from the
studio in the middle of her one and
only sitting. Her curiosity as to the fin-
ished result of the painting was not
assuaged until she came to Australia
several years later, and was invited by
Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Elliott to see the
picture, then numbered among their fine
collection of Orpens.
The second Pavlova, dated 1931, the
last picture painted by Orpen before his
death, is also part of Mr. Elliott’s col-
lection. He was not able to see this
canvas ; it was in England, he was in Aus-
tralia, and he didn’t know whether he’d
like it or not until it was delivered to
his Melbourne address.
There were amazing studies of facial
expression among spectators the first
afternoon that Group Twelve displayed
its efforts at the Athenaeum. Moderns,
real and pseudo, swallowed the show in
hungry gulps; those who had been
brought up in the old school found their
equanimity ruffled, and either frankly
hated most of the pictures displayed or
else, determined to be broadminded, were
puzzled and inclined to be bad-humored.
But, on the whole, comments were favor-
able, and at least there were comments,
not just apathy.
The show was opened by Mrs. Ernest
Scott, who made an enthusiastic but very
technical speech about the place of
modern art in modern life. A glimpse
was caught in the throng of James
Barrett’s little lady, who discloses the
identity of her brushwork with the signa-
ture M. Barrett. Other signatures were
those of Mary Alice Evatt, Justice Evatt’s
wife, M. Casey, who is the better-half of
the Federal Treasurer, and Clive Stephen,
artist and sculptor, who is one and the
same person as Clive Stephen, M.D.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 479 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNE STOUT MOON Petitioner
And JAMES MORGAN MOON Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES MORGAN MOON formerly of
179 Bourke Street Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNE
STOUT MOON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eighth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED the Eighth day of June, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
LUMSDEN, DOYLE & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 830 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNIE ISABELLA HAMMOND
{nee Annie Isabella Weekes) Petitioner
And REGINALD LESLIE HAMMOND
TO REGINALD LESLIE HAMMOND late of
Stanmore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE ISA-
BELLA HAMMOND has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying tor
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wiltully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND 1 ARE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at Ihe proper ofhce
of this Court on or before the Third day of
September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge. ~.
DATED this Eighth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and Thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
McDONELL & MOFFITT, 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney; City Agents tor R. >.
HAWKINS, Solicitor for the Petitioner, Vic-
toria Street, Taree.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
Stuart drystal
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold.
Sole representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. WAHLERS & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
bv
■
THE WORLD
Even good nationals like to look in on
London, or peep at Paris occasionally.
With a Radioplayer you hold the Key to
the World —it gives you programmes that
are graphic instead of phonographic.
Four models are immediately available-
a mantel model, two all-world receivers,
and an Australian broadcast receiver. Let
us demonstrate these amazing new series
of 1936 Radioplayers.
OUTSTANDING MODELS
from
£l5-15-0
TERMS
AVAILABLE
PHILIPS
1936
mm
6R6
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
For the Civil Service Ball the G.H.
ballroom was transformed into a replica
of Yanchep caves. The rosy glow of
concealed lights suffused the pearly stalac-
tites overhead, which merged into the
stalagmites surrounding the erstwhile
pillars. Crystal pools were dotted here
and there, and alcoves were turned into
shadowy grottos. Public-service Commis-
sioner G. W. Simpson and Mrs. Simpson
(she in a rich mixture of emerald, and
amethyst georgettes) were chief guests of
honor. President McAdams’s lady was
swathed with spring-green satin, and Mrs.
E. Huck wove a web of blush-rose lace.
Grecian sleeves and the glitter of
diamente appeared on sec. Daisy Keen's
two-blue crepes.
Lilian, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. F.
English, of Melbourne, exchanged vows
with Victor Shepherd, of Kalgoorlie, at
St. George’s Cathedral. The bride’s full-
sleeved candy georgettes were panelled
with beige lace, and her matching fur felt
hat was draped with a long-at-the-back
eye-veil. Geraldine Smith and Verna
Arthur walked in her wake swishing
pearly French cloque, tucked and draped,
and nodding halo hats girt with pink tulle
veils. Reg Groves and Bert Ethel sup-
ported the ’groom.
The new Perth Hospital Auxiliary
started its fund-raising drive with a dance
at the Adelphi. Mrs. Norman Temper-
ley’s white matt crepes were in the presi-
dential chair. Betty Rosenstamn’s bru-
nette charms were offset' by ivory moire
taffeta touched with violet velvet, and
Dorothy Temperley stepped back a cen-
tury into apple-green taffeta. Mrs. Oscar
Copley was trim and slim in silver-and-
green-brocaded lame.
Over 1000 dancers made their way to
the Embassy for the Jewish Ball. Twelve
debs., with pink posies nestling against
their white frocks, made, bows to Lud
Mayor Poynton and Mabel Teather, then
swept with their partners into a graceful
minuet. Bouquet-holders were Mrs.
Mayer Breckler and, Mrs. D. I. Freed-
man.
Lud Mayor Poynton opened Ernest
Buckmaster’s exhibition of paintings at
Newspaper House art gallery. That this
branch of the art is becoming more
widely appreciated in Perth is evidenced
by the increase in patrons as each exhibi-
tion is held. This latest topped the poll
for numbers at the opening. After the
speeches there was a rush for the Archi-
bald Prize picture of William Irvine.
Mabel Teather’s approaching marriage
has ushered in a series of functions in
many circles. Councillors’ wives made a
presentation at a tea in the Municipal
Chambers ; Mrs. T. Pelloe gathered some
of the hunting fraternity at her home to
honor the bride-elect, and Mrs. T. Eyres
put on a luncheon at the Karrakatta Club
for old friends. Molly Manning, who is
to be a bridesmaid, was another hostess,
and heaps of friends have other parties
on the cards.
Valedictory parties for Mr. and Mrs.
Basil Kirke have left the couple ex-
hausted. Perth National Studio (where
Mr. Kirke relinquishes the management
to take over in Melbourne) put on a staff
dinner, an artists’ farewell and a gather-
ing of the A.B.C. players. Radio dealers
came to light strongly. Private hostesses
include Mr. Doug Braddock and Gladys
Pendred.
Mrs. E. G. Sellers, who as Audrey
McLeod is well known in Canada and
U.S.A. as a poetess and lecturer, arrived
in the Centaur for a short holiday in
Perth. She is soon to leave for England,
and with her husband will return to
Canada by way of Singapore, China and
Japan.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Villeneuve Smith, K.C., has sprung a
surprise on Adelaide with his engage-
ment to Isabel, eldest daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Arthur W. Gordon, of Essen-
don, Vic. Miss Gordon, who is a friend
of Mr. Smith’s daughter Lindley, has
been her guest in Adelaide recently.
H. W. Hodgetts and his wife, of Ken-
sington Gardens, gave a bright and
cheery dance at Mount Osmond Country
Club when their elder daughter Mary
made her debut. Temperature on the
mountain top was Arctic, but in the club-
house huge fires kept winter at bay, and
poinsettias made the interior gay. Supper
was in a large marquee, where the color
scheme was pink. Mrs. Hodgetts looked
well in a black-and-silver-striped frock
with red flowers on the corsage. Debu-
tante Mary wore a white ripple crepe
fitting to her slim figure. The long ends
of her sash lined with silver lame formed
a train, and she carried a pale pink posy.
The younger daughter, Joan, in a pale
green crepe frock with touches of pink,
and a cousin, Diana Hodgetts, wearing
amber crepe with a sash of pale green
and tomato red and a wreath of natural
flowers round the neck, were among the
dancers. About 150 were present.
At the Catholic Ball there were 51
debutantes, who with their partners
formed a guard of honor that extended
from the entrance of the hall to the dais,
where Archbishop Killian stood while the
buds made their curtsies. The debs, were
all in white, but the styles were varied ;
some in skirts as full as crinolines and
others so close-fitting that when it came
to the curtsy the audience held their
breath.
Fifteen of our upper crust, mostly hail-
ing from North Adelaide, gave a dance
at Lordello, Brougham-place, as a fare-
well to the Moulden lady.
The Mayor’s Relief Fund benefited as
the result of a dance and bridge party in
the Kanimbla. The huge space used as the
ballroom had large glass windows with
pretty cretonne curtains, and it was diffi-
cult to realise it was part of a ship. Lud
Mayor Cain and the Mayoress were wel-
comed by Captain F. J. Smith and
J. D. Grace (manager for Mcllwraith,
McEacharn). Black marocain peeped
from, beneath Mrs. Dunstan’s squirrel fur
coat, and she sported a corsage spray of
pink roses. Mrs. J. D. Grace chose a
black chiffon patterned in gold thread
floral design. Her daughter, Mrs. Han-
kel, was in a black-and-white-striped
taffeta made on diagonal lines. Mrs. A.
E. V. Richardson’s mist-blue marocain
was figured in silver with chiffon drapery.
The G.P.O. Ball was in aid of T.B.
Soldiers and filled the Palais Royal. An
aeroplane competition caused excitement.
The guests were supplied with tiny paper
’planes which they had to shoot accu-
rately through holes on a map showing
the landing-places on the route from
Australia to England. The Lord Mayor
was in the official box with the Deputy-
Director of Posts and Telegraphs, Peter
Kennedy, and Mrs. Kennedy, who was
gowned in black chiffon velvet with
coatee effect. The Military Comman-
dant’s wife, Mrs. Martyn, wore a small
cape of mist-blue taffeta, in conjunction
with black lace and a matching plait of
tulle as a coronet.
The conditions are announced of a
new travelling scholarship for S.A.
painters, made possible by an art union
with prizes given by generous artists.
Candidates must be under 30. Works are
surprisingly narrowed down by the condi-
tions, all being figure-work: three draw-
ings, nude, draped and hands; two
paintings, a head and a nude ; and one
composition with two figures at least.
They have to be in by August 1. The
scholarship is to be worth £250 a year
for two years.
TASMANIA.
Newnham races were the more enjoy-
able because there had been a little rain
to lay the dust, and a fair crowd mus-
tered at Mowbray. Racing was good ;
dressing wintry. In the throng were the
Guy Merediths, Mrs. C. Martin, the
H. B. Archers, the V. C. Halls, the E. R.
Greens, Betty Bennell, Mr. and Mrs. W.
W. L. von Steiglitz, Lynne and Barbara
Hall, Marie and Marcia Vranisan, the J.
N. Archers and the Val Taylors.
Kingston Beach Golf Club farewelled
Mrs. F. X. de Bavay at a lunch, with
Mrs. Alan Miller and Mrs. J. Scott Reid
as joint hostesses. Spring made its first
appearance in the jonquils on the table.
Bridge followed luncheon. The guest of
honor wore a tweed suit and wine-red
hat and jumper. Mrs. Reid chose navy
blue, and Mrs. Miller was chic in navy
woollen fabric with bright-green vest.
Mrs. Thos. Lyons was another hostess
to Mrs. de Bavay that week at Hadley’s
Hotel.
Hilda Blyth, who has been in the
Speck for a long holiday among many
friends, has returned to her home in
Rhodesia. Mabel Robertson farewelled
her at a tea-party in Fitzroy-place before
she left, and Betty Yencken followed suit
in the same week.
The Midlands’ great day in the Winter
is always that on which the Campbell
Town Show is held. This year the show
was particularly successful, the exhibits
being splendid despite droughty condi-
tions. The Governor and Lady Clark
attended, and were entertained by the
president (Thos. Dowling) at lunch at
Miller’s Hotel, and at tea after the after-
noon programme. M. F. Gibson’s Griffin
won in the Champion Hunters’ section. In
the evening there was a dance at Powell’s
Hall, got up by Dorothy Foster in aid
of show funds. Holly made bright and
suitable decorations. >
The gymkhana following the Campbell
Town Show was a successful affair, with
tine weather to draw the attendance and
plenty of entries. Barbara Bennett, as
usual, was a prize-winner with her hunter
Alert, and Miss M. Affleck also scored
a first in the jumping with her Zaza.
There were egg-and-spoon races on
horseback, handicap chopping and vari-
ous other trials of skill.
Pat Wilson, daughter of the G. A.
Wilsons, Hobart, and lan Wishart Smith,
of the same city, announce their engage-
ment.


The Latest Vogue with Horsemen!
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING
BOOTS
mm
Popular for mounted and unmounted
wear.
Easy and quick to put on and take
off.
In Full and Half Sizes.
33/9 Pair.
Send Your Order To-day.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane
COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
The popularity of this buying centre is
amply proved year after year. You cannot
afford to overlook the profit-making
opportunities made possible by the Leipzig
Fair held every March and August.
COMMENCES AUGUST 30
Comprising General Samples, Building,
Household and Industrial Equipment Fair.
All information, including Barter Arrangements, from:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for
the Leipzig Trade Fair, L. MESSEY, Technical
Adviser, Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O.
Box No. 3127 P, Sydney. ’Phone: 84006.
C. N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard & Co., 360 Post Office
Place, G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
MEMORis UhEASE
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
Positions Vacant.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Examination for appointment as Junior
Mechanic, Postmaster-General’s
Department.
A COMPETITIVE examination for appoint-
ment as Junior Mechanic, open to males who
were born not earlier than December 31, 1919,
and not later than December 31, 1921, will be
held in Sydney and at such centres in New
South Wales as may be found necessary on
Saturday, September 26, 1936.
Application forms and full particulars may
be obtained from the Commonwealth Public
Service Inspector, Bth Floor, Commonwealth
Bank Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Applications should be forwarded to reach
the Secretary, Public Service Board, Canberra,
not later than Thursday, August 6, 1936.
W. J. CLEMENS, Chairman,
Public Service Board of Commissioners.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“East Point”: The sinking of the Com-
monwealth’s devastating new northern
patrol boat The Larrakia almost imme-
diately on arrival at Darwin Harbor has
put shell poachers and other malefactors
for at least three weeks outside the range
of the ancient Lewis gun which was to
be turned on them. The Administrator
said the trouble was due to “only a
leak and nothing to speak of,”, but the
engines had to be taken out and trucked
to the Government workshop and the
boat beached. Meanwhile, Darwin is
full of somewhat derisive laughter. The
local paper, always polite, records that
“the launch did 23 knots on her trials
and is expected to attain a speed of 5000
beautiful quid p.a. in upkeep.”
=l= Ks * *
“Kaloa”: Among its newest glories,
Rabaul is to boast a new hotel—a £25,000
hotel to be built by D. R. Carpenters,
complete with 30 bedrooms and hot and
cold water, “the finest hostelry in the
Pacific outside Honolulu.” Time was
when Ah Chee and Ching Hing supplied
all the hotels Rabaul needed, with large
bars and very open bedrooms and a musi-
cal box in the breakfast-room. Nobody
thought of dining in a hotel. Eating was
done at a chop-hous-e on the corner, where
Celestial Charley recited the eternal
menu: “Jicken, stek, pork-chop.” We
never had pork-chop, remembering
that not for nothing a certain breed of
Chinese dog was named chow. We had
hot water laid on to our baths, though —
by a very bare coon whose woolly head
and hands used to appear over the bath-
room wall when he poured it over us out
of a petrol-tin.
v * * :1:
“Col. B.”: One of back-country Aus-
tralia’s real transport problems and its
solution were recently demonstrated
simultaneously in the N.T. A heavy
tractor had to be taken from Newcastle
Waters to Birdum for transport to Dar-
win. It was loaded on a lorry, and 16
miles from Birdum the outfit got bogged.
The carrier drove the tractor off the
lorry, pulled the lorry out with it and
towed it into Birdum. There, the trac-
tor was loaded on a railway wagon,
which promptly developed a hot box.
Why are the caterpillar-tread and similar
sand-and-mud-negotiating devices no
longer obtainable in Australia? It is
no use to talk of giant tyres. Something
non-pneumatic is the answer. I’ve seen
whippet tanks doing 20 m.p.h. over
country that no tyred vehicle could even
look at'.
* * * #
“Nagheer”: A grim happening was that
of the dingo-trapper in the Fitzmaurice
(N.T.) country who, mortally speared,
crawled to his camp, poisoned all his
tucker and was found dead with five
strychnine-contorted abo. corpses around
him. A grimmer one happened long ago
in the Islands labor trade. The mate of
a schooner which was cut out by canoe
parties, himself mortally wounded, man-
aged to hide in the lazarette with a lad
seaman, the only other survivor. They
made up the signal dynamite into one
big charge while the whole village was
coming aboard to share the loot. The
mate gave the boy 10 minutes to get
clear; he slipped up and overboard, un-
seen by the excited plunderers, and was
half-way to the beach when the ship went
up. With only a few old men and
women and a half-dozen utterly-scared
survivors to manage, the lad was well on
the way to become a local chieftain when
another recruiting vessel dropped anchor
in the bay weeks later.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A sweet little ship
recently chugged up the Brisbane River
under her 10-h.p. Diesel auxiliary engine,
and dropped anchor in the Gardens
Reach. A stout little ship, too, under 40
feet overall, beamy, highwooded, ketch-
rigged, every bit of gear in seamanlike
order and condition. Built in a back-
yard in Portland, Maine, by a professor
of physics and his wife —the lady had
never even seen the sea until she was 22
—they have brought her over 15,000 miles
of Atlantic and Pacific without anything
which either regards as an adventure.
Gales? Certainly, quite a few; “one
expects them in Southern New Zealand,
and built the Igdrasil accordingly, to
visit the Sounds there,” is Professor
Strout’s way of putting it. Navigation?
Well, he’s a mathematician, and accus-
tomed to handling accurate instruments,
and that’s about all there really is to navi-
“Better take them matches off ’er, mum, before she starts a flamin'
bushfire."
gation. Ultimate destination? “We’re
just going on so long as we keep on
enjoying it.” There’s the true sea-spirit
for you, landsmen.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Queensland’s Railway
Department is not always consistent in
its road-traffic-strangulation efforts. A
section of railways land has been leased
for the erection of a tearoom and cafe
for the attraction of motorists using the
Bruce Highway, north of Brisbane. Lands-
borough, only a short distance further
on, is one of the official railway refresh-
ment rooms which add their share to the
camouflaged losses of the department
which administers Mr. Dash.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Dorothy Jones, our Lord Mayor’s
daughter, announces her engagement to
E. D. McGinley, the solicitor.
Mrs. Forgan Smith and son George
left for Melbourne to meet the head of
their house and our House.
Betty de Burgh Persse, who with her
mother and twin sister Mary has been
in town shopping, is to be married on
June 29 to Lieut.-Col. W. Tuxford
Howe at the family church at Tam-
rookum, built (of cedar grown on the
station) in memory of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Collins, Betty’s grandparents.
She will be the second of their direct
descendants to be a bride there —her
cousin Nanette Bruxner (Mrs. Harold
Purvis Smith) was the first. The wedding
is to be military.
The bridegroom will not arrive from
India until three days before the wed-
ding ; the ’moon will be a trip to Fiji
in the Strathnaver, and after that India
and Meerut, where the new home will
be. Mary is to be her twin sister’s only
bridesmaid. The wedding train, a lovely
thing trimmed with foaming cascades of
Brussels lace, belonged to Mrs. de Burgh
Persse, and the lace was made to her
order when she was in Brussels some
years ago.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes motored
from Canning Downs and brought Mrs.
McDonald with them for the associates’
golf championship. Enthusiasts, they
stayed near the links at Yeerongpilly.
There were over 200 people at the
dance staged at Lennon’s by members of
the Younger Set in aid of the Fiveways
Creche and Kindergarten. The infants
have been supplied with percussion in-
struments for a band, and the dance was
to help wipe off the cost. Mrs. Bruce
Shearer and Mrs. M. Christophersen did
the receiving.
Dr. Margaret Mills, feeling homesick
for her ain folk and Aberdeen, signed
up as ship’s doctor on the Port Wynd-
ham. Brisbane will miss her. She was
on the staff of the General Hospital for
2\ years, and also in private practice for
some time. Her brother is Captain T. J.
Mills, commander of the Nellore.
There were 12 charming debs, at All
Hallows’ Ball, and Mrs. P. N. Shannon
presented them to Archbishop Duhig.
Mrs. E. G. Phelan helped Mrs. Shannon
to receive at the Trocadero.
Nan Shaw, whose mezzo-contralto is
known over the air, marries Norval
Smith at the Tabernacle on June 29. Her
mother, Mrs. Robert Shaw, better known
under her maiden name of Agnes Kerr
(she is a notable singer of Scottish songs,
and a firm favorite at the St. Andrew’s
concert), will sing during the ceremony,
and Lena Hammond,. Nan’s singing
teacher, during the signing of the regis-
ter. There have been several parties,
with more to come.
Violet Krimmer and Bob Cheesman
were married at old St. James’s Church,
Toowoomba, and Toowoomba gardens
were stripped of jonquils, narcissus and
lily-of-the-valley to make a proper set-
ting for one of Toowoomba’s nicest girls.
Mrs. Rex Whitty and Nancy Cheesman
attended the bride; John Cox and Rex
Whitty were on the ’groom’s side. A
trip to Sydney is by way of honeymoon.
Mrs. Willie Persse (president) and Mrs.
Firmin McKinnon (sec.) were beaming
when the last straggler departed from the
Bush Book Club on its Book Day, for
the public responded with gifts of 700
volumes and almost 1000 magazines.
Mrs. Edgar Robinson is president of
the ladies’ committee that works for the
Incapacitated Soldiers and Sailors.
Once a fortnight a bridge party is held,
and the profits are tucked away for
Christmas cheer in the case of Diggers
having a rough spin. The committee
also gives a Christmas party to 500
children.
Another women’s auxiliary that works
steadily and well is associated with a
sub-branch of the R.5.5.1.L.A., composed
of disabled Diggers. Several members
attend meetings in wheel-chairs, but it is
a lively body; and at the moment it is
concentrating on the building of a cottage
at Bilinga.
Mrs. J. W. Hetherington and daughter
Ena are off to Cairns and the Table-
land next month on holiday. Ena has
been working in the interests of Britha
Bourke, South Brisbane’s nomi-
nee for the Q.A.T.B.’s “Queen”
competition.
Norda Mata gave her recitals
at the Princess Theatre, and
people wandered in frankly
clasping hotwater-bottles, rugs,
and wearing cardigans and heavy
topcoats. One vision was heard
to confide in a
bosom friend that
she had a cardi-
gan and a tweed
skirt under the
satin creation that
suited her so
well. Nobody
gave Norda Mata
a rug or a hot-
water-bottle, and the stage
must have been like a re-
frigerator. Background
and lighting, music and
surroundings all were
against the dancer. And,
to cap all, the tax-
gatherers were waiting
with their “requests.”
Toowoomba Repertory Society came
down to Brisbane and staged “Accent
on Youth” at the Princess. Eulys
Buchanan took the chief role, and Bris-
bane repertorians not only applauded
her generously—which she well deserved
—but also said it with flowers. The
visitors were entertained at a supper-
party after the show.
The Anglican Synod is on. There was
a garden party at Bishopsbourne, at
which Archbishop and Mrs. Wand and
Mrs. A. B. Stark received ; and every
afternoon visiting clergy have been
entertained at tea in St. Luke’s Hall.
Pat Handley takes the prize for origi-
nality. She arranged a weevil race at the
party she gave in mother’s flat—and the
guests loved it.
The Travellers’ Aid Society in its
monthly report told the story of a
woman with eight children —ages 15
years to eight months—who arrived in
Brisbane by train with her husband on
a stretcher with a fractured skull. He
had an accident after just a fortnight’s
work cotton picking. The society lent a
helping hand, and made lif; a little more
endurable for the mother.


• for every
socket in every
receiver
Milliard
The Master
Valve
mmm
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Geelong House,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
AN
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
amplioh
dynamic
SPEAKERS
mmm
mmm
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enioy the best
possible reproduction.
“Fitted in all quality Re-
ceivers.”
“ Publication forwarded os
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
(JO Clarence Street, tlne> .
RADIO NEWS
A MODERN ULTRA-SHORT-WAVE SUPERHET.
By
DON B. KNOCK.
DETAILS of this particularly well-engineered receiver have
been furnished by courtesy of the designer, Kenneth
Jowers, GSZJ, well-known English short-wave engineer. The
receiver represents a distinct advance in the means of dealing
with ultra-short waves.. In the near future, as transmitters of
a more advanced nature are employed, receivers such as this
will become essential,
Although the technical details of this
excellent British example of u.-s.-w, re-
ceiver design involve the use of valves
of a type little used in Australia, the
reader sufficiently interested in the de-
velopment of what is destined to be a
very important phase of radio can apply
alternatives in valves obtainable in Aus-
tralia with no difficulty. Since this page
last dealt with types of u.-s.-w. apparatus
used experimentally in this country much
advancement has taken place overseas in
a determined effort to make more cor-
rect use of the wide frequency spectrum
offered at frequencies higher than
30,000 kc. (10m.). The problem of con-
gestion in experimental work at
56,000 kc. (5m.) has not been very acute
Fig. 1. —Eight valves are used in a conventional circuit. The I.F. unit (a
commercial product ) contains two 3000kc. transformers. Coupling between H.F.
oscillator and detector is similar to the Ideal Amateur Superhet (B. 15/4/'36).
owing to the fact that the number of
active experimenters is limited, and that
the experimenters are mostly situated in
the metropolitan districts of cities. For
short-distance visual-range communica-
tion, the simplest of apparatus has been
used, with transmitters of an elemental
nature, and receivers even more elemen-
tal. Yet with such equipment distances
up to 130 miles have been covered with
reliability and often under adverse con-
ditions. * Work overseas has indicated
that unexpectedly long distances can be
covered using waves in the vicinity of
five metres, but to do this with any sem-
blance of success the apparatus must
proportionately use principles found of
value in lower-frequency design. The
question resolves itself into one of high
stability in transmitter and receiver. The
radiating system must not be wasteful,
and must concentrate the energy as much
as possible in the desired direction. The
latter point is relatively simple. Direc-
live aerial arrays with multiple radiators
and reflectors do not call for undue space
at high frequencies. The apparatus to
energise such systems to good effect and
to receive signals from such distant
stations calls for a great deal of atten-
tion to detail, and “any old thing” will
not do. With valves available to-day
and quartz crystals of suitable cut it is
no more troublesome to build a tele-
phone or telegraph transmitter capable
of radiating a stable signal, with good
output, any more than it is at 20 metres.
The receiver, however, is different,
Whereas a receiver for ordinary short-
wave work can be made to perform satis-
factorily even if the construction is not
of the best, the problem is much' more
difficult when dealing with ultra-short
waves. Tuned circuits must be symmet-
rical to a degree, and in the case of the
fig. 2.- The layout, showing the complete interstage
screening and workmanlike design.
superhet careful attention to detail is
more than necessary.
Points of Design.
Some idea of the mechanical construc-
tion can be obtained from the illustra-
tions. Reference to the circuit diagram
of Fig. 1 shows that eight valves are em-
ployed. It is well known that the West-
inghouse copper oxide rectifier is admir-
able for use in A.C. powered short-wave
receivers, the HTB type being employed
here in the usual voltage-doubling ar-
rangement. A tuned R.F. stage is fol-
lowed by an R.f. pentode detector and
separate H.F. oscillator, with the grid
of the oscillator coupled to the detectoi
suppressor. Almost any R.F. pentode
and triode valves
could be used here,
and of course, with
advantage, the 954
and 955 Acorns
are applicable. I.F.
amplification is at
3000 kc., with two
stages, and this
presents no prob-
lem other than
careful screening
and decoupling.
The second detec-
tor is also an R.F.
pentode, and an
audio pentode sup-
plies the output.
For telegraphy a
triode is used as
beat-frequency os-
cillator at 2000 kc.
A rather impor-
tant feature is the
use of regeneration
on the R.F. stage, and the designer states
that this is effective in considerably rais-
ing signal over noise
level. It would be pos-
sible to include regenera-
tion on the first detector,
as in the Ideal Amateur
Superhet (B. 15/4/’36),
but this would introduce
complication and is ren-
dered more or less un-
necessary by the R.F.
control. By the use of
the metal rectifier in the
power supply, modula-
tion hum and A.C. ripple
are quite unnoticeable
with only a small filter.
In order to split the fili-
ment load two-heater windings are
provided on the power transformer,
and four valves are fed from each
winding. With the exception of
the I.F. unit, which should present
little difficulty to the seasoned ex-
perimenter, the circuit diagram and
illustrations will provide enough
information to work on. In addition to
the use of such a receiver for experi-
mental sm. work it must be remembered
that some day in the future experimental
television can be expected, and, although
something better in the way of audio re-
sponse would be needed than is given by
the system depicted here, the R.F. cover-
age is useful. With
suitable coils this
receiver is reported
to give an excellent
nerformance from
24m. to 10m., and
the designing of
coils is easy.
D. B. K.
American radio
amateurs did a
sturdy job in the
recent disastrous
floods in the north-
east of U.S.A.
They provided the
sole means of com-
munication during
long periods in
many centres. In
Pittsburg and
several other towns
where the electrical
power supply failed amateurs carried on
with battery-powered outfits to maintain
contact with the outside world. Many
amateurs operated under the Army
(Militia) Net organisation during the
martial-law period.
All Round the Dial.
“A. Major”: A grievance of listeners
in connection with the visit to Australia
of other musical notabilities under the
A.B.C. aegis has been intensified by the
experience in connection with pianist
Eileen Joyce. Only a portion, and that
not always the most interesting portion,
of her big public recitals has been broad-
cast —for her first Sydney Town Hall
recital the Chopin bracket was excluded,
and at her last Sydney solo recital only
the first part of the programme went over
the air. Also, on such occasions, the
star performer’s music is usually sand-
wiched in with incongruous fare —with a
brass band on one occasion. The list-
eners’ money, administered by the A.8.C..
brings these virtuosi to Australia, and
Fig. 3.—The R.F. portion. The ganged condensers are
Eddystone make, a few samples of which are obtainable
in A ustralia.
it doesn’t seem fair that the listeners
should be treated as poor relations and
given only such scraps as won’t interfere
with box-office sales at public concerts.
If these performers cost so much that
the A.B.C. can’t afford to foot the entire
bill (which seems improbable), the shar-
ing process might be rendered more
palatable if on the evenings they are on
the air the station responsible purveyed
music of the same class during the
periods when they are off.
Casual Comment.
“Inyugo” : For a few years the popular
idea of American police radio has been
that of crooks and gangsters with short-
wave receivers, gleefully tuned to the
“cop” station and anticipating the moves
of the law. Some time ago U.S.A. police
networks went ultra-short wave, and
eavesdropping became a little more diffi-
cult. Radio advertisements, however,
cheerfully said “listen to police broad-
casts with this humdinger super-regenera-
tor” or words to like effect, and many
people have been so doing. Recently, in
Peoria, Illinois, a young listener got quite
a shock, and so did his father. The boy
had been tuned to the local police station,
in the vicinity of five metres, for some
days, and then things happened quickly.
The police broke into the house of the
experimenter, aged 22, and arrested both
him and his father, 46. They were taken
to gaol and kept there for 12 hours aftei
arrest. The police lieutenant said he
would have made the arrest sooner, but
a scarlet-fever sign on the house kept him
away! The young man was operating the
outfit only as a receiver, but, being of
the “squegger” super-regenerator type, it


Mi J»#OIOItS
1936 A.V.C.
PENTAGRID SIX,
£9/7/6.
mmm
SO MANY RADIOS
all described as good!
But here is “ULTIMATE,” a set that will
not only hold its own against all-comers
but will definitely out-perform any other
make in its price-class.
“ULTIMATE” is the set which, in New
Zealand, established a world record by
obtaining 603 verified reports from stations
heard on the broadcast band alone, and this
in competition not only with sets of Aus-
tralian manufacture but also against those
of American and English factories.
Add to this the fact that “ULTIMATE” is
a true all-wave set with its novel and useful
Multi-purpose Mechanical Micrometer Dial
and you have a set which out-performs any
opposition.
Electric and .Battery Models from 5 to 11
valves.
Send for the 1936 catalogue to the sole
A ustralian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN
AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service:
ROLA REPRODUCERS, VAN RUYTEN
CAR AND LAUNCH RADIO,
MULLARD RADIO VALVES.
caused severe interference with the police
system. Later, the father was fined £4O
and costs on a charge of “building and
operating a radio set interfering with the
police radio system.” The fine was even-
tually withheld on a promise not to build
or operate a similar radio set. The action
may seem drastic, but only those who
have to work through howling super-
regenerators and transceivers know what
havoc they can cause.
*** ' *
“R.H.A.”: Apart from such considera-
tions as prevention of undue wavering of
short-wave signals, the desirability of
maintaining an even tension on the sky-
wire used for reception makes itself felt
in other directions. In cases where rope
stays and halyards are used on an aerial
system it is frequently found necessary
to adjust these to compen-
sate for the vagaries of
the weather. Particularly
is this so with regard to
the halyard on the aerial
wire itself. After con-
siderable trouble with
straining ropes, I decided
to dispense with tying the
halyard in a fixed posi-
tion and adopt a “free”
and balanced halyard.
The aerial is secured
firmly at one end, and at
the other the hal-
yard is fitted with a
weight slightly in ex-
cess of that of the
aerial wire. A dis-
carded cast - iron
gate-latch is used
at my joint, and
other handy house-
hold objects, such as
window weights, old flat-
irons and so on, should
prove quite effective.
Since the difference in the
length of a piece of
manilla rope under dry
and wet conditions is considerable, a
great deal of trouble is saved by this
method of allowing the halyard to find
its own tension.
What’s What in Radio.
Ex-Kaiser Wilhelm 11. is reported to
have become a “convert to radio.” Until
recently he was understood to have been
strongly prejudiced against broadcast re-
ception, but in order to follow the funeral
ceremonies of the late King George V.
he had a receiver specially installed at his
retreat in Doom, Holland.
* * * X
Britain’s police H.Q. believe in making
the most of radio. A new transmitter is
being installed at Scotland Yard at a
cost of £lO,OOO. Through this station com-
munication will be possible between the
Yard and 500 radio-equipped automo-
biles patrolling London and suburbs. The
station also will be a direct link with
similar stations to be installed in pro-
vincial areas.
* # * *
“C. Sharp”: An oscillating valve may
be a bugbear to the radio man, but it is
the basic element of the new radio organ.
Samples have arrived in Melbourne, and
the one bagged by the A.B.C. has left
me wondering if a radio engineer could
now turn the croak of my old loud-
speaker into a modern battleship or
something useful. Laurenz Hammond,
an American organist, saw the possibili-
ties of a howling valve, and spent a lot of
time coaxing it to howl the way he
wanted it to. The result is a remark-
able instrument, about as big as a small
piano, that may not eventually be called
an organ at all. It has the same idea,
including two manuals and pedals, and
finger-stops allow the player to faithfully
reproduce one of the instruments of an
orchestra or a combination of all except
percussion, or to use it as an organ with
perfect pipe tone. The music comes
from a loudspeaker or tone cabinet. In
future, church and theatre organs,
bands, even symphony orchestras, may
have to leave the field of music to howl-
ing radio valves.
The call-letters allotted to the Cunard-
White Star liner Queen Mary are GBTT,
and transmission on short waves will be
made on channels in the following
bands: 16.85 metres to 18.27 metres, 22.5
metres to 24.3 metres, 33.93 metres to
36.58 metres and 67.87 metres to 73.17
metres.
Amateur Chatter.
The 20m. DX hounds are bemoaning
adverse conditions, and many can be
“ Hasn't it ever occurred to you, woman, that I also
can boil with passion ?”
heard talking of reverting to 40. That
being so, 20 will have more room for
those that like if. This band has been
an open oyster for so long and so many
’phone exponents have cut their teeth on
it that the inevitable bad patches will be
despairing for many. It is easy enough to
get contact, and that by voice, with dis-
tant stations when the sun breaks out in
favorable spots, but it is a far different
story when the DX fog comes down.
Then it is that real efficiency in gear
counts if much is to be done in the way
of DX.
Writer has been strong for the tuning
of receiver antennae for best DX results,
and has used several systems ; but chang-
ing receiver antenna coils in addition to
receiver coils is tiresome. A new
gadget evolved is well worth the time
expended in construction. Made from
an old drum dial, it consists of a turret
head carrying coils for 10, 20, 40 and 80.
A turn on the knob, and the desired band
coil is selected. The coil unit includes
parallel and series tuning, and antenna
resonance can be secured with this
arrangement with any form of antenna.
It will be described in due course.
Ever stop to consider the stamp-col-
lecting habit, and then think what is likely
to happen when you and I are grey-
beards? Some bright bird will set a
value on the old original QSL cards, and
such pioneer cards as UIMO, FBAB,
G2NM, CIDD, G2KF and others are
likely to be worth filthy lucre! Why not?
There are QSL cards in existence by the
million to-day, but there are very few of
the old original pioneer cards in the pos-
session of the modern ham. Those that
do exist have a sentimental value for
men who lived through those thrilling
days and nights, but they might have an-
other kind of value some day. One
never knows.
In some quarters there has for many
years been a tendency to sneer at the
puny efforts of amateurs. Some people
who, in the earlier days of radio, were
carried into the radio industry and its
associations on the tidal wave of amateur
environment assumed an air of
superiority ; the idea was that, as amateur
radio was the hobby of a few, it wasn't
a “bread-and-butter” game. Such people
have changed their tune and freely admit
that the radio amateur not only deserves
a place in the sun, but is getting to be
quite important. With the advancement
in radio technique generally, short-wave
radio in particular is part and parcel of
everyday fare. Who contributed largely
to this state of affairs is a matter of
history.
In the U.S.A. the radio amateur was
never looked upon as an encumbrance.
He played around with his ideas ; they
got into print, and radio laboratories
and manufacturers wasted no time in en-
larging upon them. The result was a
healthy industry and a growing number
of amateurs, many with plenty of cash
to buy up commercial components and
even complete equipment. In Australia
the radio amateur has always been han-
dicapped by small numbers. But he is
growing, and speedily. Short-wave lis-
teners are getting the urge through their
dual-wavers. In time they seek out the
way to an A.0.P.C., and more amateurs
are born.
Now Sydney has had a radio exhibi-
tion, with the full support of the trade.
It was an unbounded success. From
the moment the doors opened sightseers
and others surged in, and they had plenty
to interest them. The show might have
been amateurish if the men who had
put in their many exhibits had been con-
tent to do them in an anything-will-do
style ; but most of the competitive ma-
terial could not have been turned out
better by a factory full of machinery.
There were shown short-wave trans-
mitters that, if one didn’t know other-
wise, would be. stamped as “commercial
made.” Everything was done thoroughly,
and the trade exhibitors showed by their
displays their appreciation of the Aus-
tralian amateur and his undoubted value
to them. The organisation and culmi-
nating success of this 1936 exhibition
were things of which all members of
the W.I.A. are proud, and with this
success “in the bag” officers of the
N.S.W. Division are determined that
others will be bigger. and better. The
1936 exhibition was good, but look out
for the Big Show in 1937!
VK2NO.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) What is the approximate cost of a small
D.C. generator, 350 volts 40ma., and where
can 1 buy one ? (2) 1 wish to construct a small
telephony transmitting set with a range of about
300 miles. Can you recommend a booklet on
the subject of transmitter construction ? —437.
(1) Carter genemotor, £6; from Amplion
(A/asia), Ltd., 66 Clarence-street, Sydney. (2)
The Radio Handbook, Bs. posted; from Mc-
Gill’s Newsagency, 183 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne. The installation and operation of any
form of radio transmitter is illegal without the
necessary license from the Postmaster-General’s
Department. Information as to terms of license
cap be obtained from the Senior Radio In-
spector, Haymarket P. 0., Sydney.
* # :f: *
I have built the Little Twin receiver and am
doubtful concerning a few points. (1) When the
reaction control is tuned a click is heard, and
the stations are received as whistles. On
taking the reaction condenser plates out the
whistle stops abruptly. On increasing slightly
the station is received. Is this smooth action
or the other kind ? (2) Would a B eliminator
be suitable for plate supply ? (3) Spacing be-
tween grid and plate coils ? (4) Number of
turns using 30 D.S.C. instead of 28 D.S.C. for
short-wave coils ? —438.
(1) The other kind. No click should be
heard. The valve should slide into oscillation
smoothly. If the action is harsh it will be
next to impossible to tune in a weak station
correctly. Try a different value of detector-grid
leak, and if a resistor is already in use across
the audio transformer secondary try a smaller
value of resistor. Often, reversing connections
to the audio transformer primary or secondary
will cure such trouble, although with slight loss
in volume. (2) Yes. (3) About |in., but this
is a matter for experiment. Reaction may be
smoother and detuning less with greater spac-
ing between grid and plate coils. (4) One to
two turns less than the larger gauge of wire,
provided the coils are close-wound.
jfc ❖ if:
(1) If an aerial runs north and south, is there
any difference which end the lead-in should
be taken from ? (2) Best direction for an aerial
in N.Q. for reception of southern station ?
439.
(1) If the lead-in is taken at the north end
the signals will be stronger from a northerly
direction. If the lead-in is at the south end
signals will then be stronger from the south.
(2) North and south, with the lead-in at the
south end.
Pentagrid' Super-regenerator.
That the simple super-regenerative
form of receiver will always have uses
in connection with short-distance ultra-
high-frequency radio communication
goes without saying. It is a handy form
of receiver, and can be made in ex-
tremely compact dimensions. By cut-
ting down on the valves it can be simpli-
fied, although some loss in efficiency
usually results. A logical application of
the pentagrid type of valve, or the octode,
is to put this to work in such receivers
to do a double duty. The diagram illus-
trates a way of doing this. The control
grid is fed with the signal, and the plate
is used for feedback as in any pentode-
detector system. The first and second
gr j dS) whlcll are those normally used for
t h e oscillator in a superhet, are used for
the interruption oscillation. Thus, the
cathode stream of the regenerative detec -
tor is mo dulated by the interruption oscil-
]ator This combines in one valve the
actions of detector and oscillator without
the disadvantages of other single-valve
super-regenerative circuits.


“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE (f MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
FtAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
BRILLIANT ROAD PERFORMANCE
BY BUICK 8/60.
A CAR FOR THE CONNOISSEUR.
By FRED BERRY.
n 1 QUIPPED with an engine of similar capacity and power
■ * to that fitted to the “80” and “90” series, the 8/60 Buick,
tested over the “Bulletin” course, appears to offer everything
any reasonable motorist could desire or imagine.
Robust construction, as reflected by gross weight, gives a
sense of confidence and comfort, while the wheelbase ensures
maximum comfort for six passengers without interfering with
ease of manipulation, even in congested areas. 1
Touring speeds of an extremely high order can be com-
fortably maintained for lengthy periods without fatigue, and
with a minimum of fuss or engine noise, while, despite the
relatively high back axle ratio, acceleration in traffic is such
that one must take the wheel to appreciate fully the possibilities
in this direction.
Radical changes in design include
powerful yet smooth hydraulic brakes.
Alloy pistons have been substituted for
cast-iron. The valve-in-head engine is
retained, having been steadily developed
by Buick for more than 30 years. Wnen
designers desire to obtain maximum
speed and power from an internal-com-
bustion motor, valve-in-head type of
construction is adopted, all world’s speed
records being held by engines of this
type.
Rated at 37.81 h.p. (R.A.C.), the eight-
cylinders-in-line o.h.v. motor develops
120 b.h.p. at 3200 r.p.m. Bore is
3 7-16 in. and stroke 4 5-16 in.; swept
volume 320.2 cub. in. Firing sequence is
1-6-2-5-8-3-7-4. Compression ratio is
5.45 to 1. Cylinders are cast en bloc,
integral with upper half of crankcase,
heavy cross webs supporting the crank-
shaft bearings. Cylinder head is detach-
able. Valves, set in the head directly
above the pistons, are of one-piece con-
struction, with inlets of nichromc
Capable of amazing road performance, yet docile in traffic,
the ’36 series 8/60 Buick.
steel and exhausts of silchrome. Each
valve is fitted with double springs of
different diameters to prevent bouncing
at high speeds. Actuating gear, enclosed
in pressed-steel casing, is of push-rod
and rocker type. Rocker arms are of
heat-treated steel, having babbitt-lined
bearings. Push rods are of steel tubing,
while the cylindrical-ported valve-lifters
are case-hardened and fitted with elon-
gated holes for lubricating purposes,
Clearances with motor hot, 15 thou,
Lightweight alloy pistons, hardened by
the Anodic process, are fitted. Skirts are
T-slot, cam-ground to conform with
cylinder bore at high temperatures, and
four rings (two compression and two
oil-retaining) are fitted above the gud-
geon pin.
Connecting rods are I-section, of
forged steel, and have steel-backed, bab-
bitt-lined big-end bearings. Small ends
are bolted to the piston pin, which
“floats” in the piston boss,
The crankshaft, fully balanced and
fitted with counterweights and a torsional
vibrator at the forward end, runs on
five steel-backed main bearings, the bear-
ings being stepped in size from front
to rear. Further, the short stroke of
the Buick engine permits overlapping of
main and connecting-rod bearings, pro-
viding greater rigidity, preventing twist-
ing and torsion of the crankshaft and
increasing smoothness of operation. The
camshaft is driven by a short, sturdy,
silent chain that requires no adjustment
during the life of the motor,
The engine lubricating system is of
the full force-feed type. Oil is supplied
under pressure to main, connecting-rod
and camshaft bearings. Cylinder walls
and pistons are lubricated by oil forced
through small holes drilled through the
lower end of each connecting rod, which
meters with hole in crankshaft once each
revolution. Gudgeon-pin bearings are
fed from a small channel leading from
the lower ring groove. Timing chain
and sprockets are lubricated by a small
passage from the
main oil line,
which meters with
an opening in the
crankshaft
sprocket twice
each rev.
Particular atten-
tion is given to
efficient valve
lubrication, s o
minimising wear
and noise. Oil is
carried to th e
rocker-shaft
through a pipe from the crankcase.
Restrictions in fittings reduce pres-
sure to individual rockers, and the sur-
plus is conducted through channels to
push-rod balls. A water passage, directly
connected with the radiator, extends the
full length of rocker-shaft, so warming
the oil quickly after a cold start, and
maintaining a moderate temperature
when the engine is
driven on full power
for lengthy periods.
An A.C. cartridge-type
oil filter and purifier
is fitted in the circuit.
Fuel is drawn from
a 13-gal. tank at the
rear by a mechanical
fuel pump fitted with
gauze filters and
settling bowl, and
delivered to a double
Venturi dual down-
draught carburettor
equipped with air
cleaner and intake
silencer of large dimensions.
Efficient carburettion at all speeds and
temperatures is under positive automatic
control, idling adjustment, choke and pre-
heating of fuel being con-
trolled by thermostatic
units which relieve the
driver of necessity for
manual adjustment.
Dual automatic starting
is also fitted. When the
hand throttle is opened or
accelerator pedal is de-
pressed a solenoid is
energised, throwing the
starter gear into mesh and
then causing main current
to pass through the arma-
ture, so turning the
motor. •
The electrical
system is Del c o-
Remy, two-unit 6-8
volt type. The generator
is heavy duty, fan-cooled,
with voltage regulator and
outside adjustment of third
brush. The starter motor is actuated by
solenoid, coincidental with accelerator
pedal and ignition switch.
In the six-volt coil and battery igni-
tion system maxi-
mum engine effi-
ciency is assured
under all condi-
tions of speed and
loading by equip-
ping the distributor
with both vacuum
and centrifugal
automatic spark
advance, while in
cases where fuels
of widely different
"knock” values
are used the com-
plete spark range
may be altered
manually by
adjusting an oc-
tane selector
located below the
distributor casing.
Make-anri-b r e a k
gap is 12-17 thou.;
spark gap 25 thou.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry disc clutch, llin. diameter, fitted
with a series of helical springs on the
thrust side to ensure a smooth en-
gagement, and housed in a venti-
lated casing to avoid overheating on
full load.
Three speeds forward and one reverse
are fitted, all pinions being helical cut
and of 4he silent synchromesh type. The
central gear-change lever is located well
forward in the driver’s compartment to
provide additional legroom for pas-
sengers.
The final drive to the rear axle is
through an enclosed torque tube with
Detail view of Buick independent front-wheel suspension.
one metal universal joint immediately
behind the gearbox and lubricated from
the transmission. The rear axle, in a
banjo-type pressed-steel housing, is ot
semi-floating type with spiral bevel drive ,
reduction ratio, 3.9 to 1.
The chassis of the new Buick is lighter
yet almost twice as strong as that in the
previous model, the X members extend-
ing forward along the side members to
form a box section. Arms are also ex-
tended rearwards along the frame and
joined to the side members, while two
additional pressed-steel cross members
at the rear further stiffen the frame.
Wheelbase is 122 in. ; minimum ground
clearance, 7|in.
Front-end suspension is of independent
type, employing coiled springs. Knuckle
supports are pivoted at both upper and
lower ends to triangular control arms.
The upper arm is integral with a
hydraulic shock-absorber, the lower arm
being pivoted to a shaft bolted to the
underside of the front frame cross mem-
ber. Composite rubber and fabric insu-
lators are used at each end of the coil
springs to limit compression and re-
bound and eliminate squeaks. A U-
shaped ride stabiliser with bearings on the
side frame members and the arms of the
shock-absorbers assists in keeping the car
on an even keel when driven at speed on
corners. Rear springs are semi-elliptic,
anchored forward of centre, with silent
threaded shackles front and rear.
Double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers
are used, and pads on the underside of
the springs position the jack when mak-
ing wheel changes.
Developing 120 b.h.p., the Straight-eight Buick motor is
designed to give easy access to all units and component parts.
Centre-point control steering is fitted,
the steering tie-rods pivoting from a cen-
tral anchorage and maintaining a con-
stant relationship between units, result-
ing in ease of manipulation and freedom
from road shock. Steering gearbox is
of worm and double-roller type, with
USEFUL DATA ON BUICK 8/60.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 9 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 6 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft.
Maximum speed. 89.1 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 17 m.p.g.


■' . .
. '
mmmaSWBBBm
I
:
I
a
\i
m
: &
m
m
11
H
iftv.
THE
ONLY
BOXED
AXLE
9
EQUAL TO
THE WORLDS
Here at last is an Australian made axle equal in
every respect to the world's best.
Dufor Axles are made from a high-grade chrome-
nickel axle steel, and are machined to precision limits
in one of Australia's best equipped automotive
factories. Always specify Dufor none
genuine without the brand.
BEST
DULY & HANSFORD LTD.
MARRICKVILLE. NSW.
mmm
DUFOR
AXLES
provision for adjustment. A large-
diameter flexible spoke steering wheel is
standard fitting. Turning circle on left
and right lock is 41ft.
Service brakes on all four wheels are
servo-hydraulic type, brake drums being
ribbed to dissipate heat. The emergency
hand brake, located in the reverse posi-
tion under the instrument panel, is
coupled mechanically to both rear wheels
through independent linkage.
Bodywork in the car tested is of Aus-
tralian manufacture, by Holden’s, and
workmanship and finish are excellent.
Cutaruay section of steering-box, the
wormm and double-roller gear providing
easy control, with long life of parts.
The V-type windscreen, equipped with
twin windscreen wipers, is of non-shat-
terable glass. No-draught ventilation is
provided on front and rear quarter win-
dows, and a manually-operated screened
cowl allows air to enter the body from
the front. Dual sun visors, rear vision
mirror, robe rails t and adjustable driving
seat are fitted as standard equipment, and
the instrument panel is neatly grouped
Ignition distributor head, incorporating
centrifugal and vacuum spark advance
and octane selector.
immediately in front of the steering
wheel. An electric clock is fitted in the
centre of the glove compartment to
balance the layout. An ignition lock on
the steering column serves also to lock
the steering gear when in the “off” posi-
tion. A spacious luggage compartment
with provision for housing spare wheel
is built into the rear panel and is fitted
with double locks. A radio aerial of roof
type is built into all closed models.
The car tested, driven by H. Poulton,
of Boyded, Ltd., N. S. Wales distributors,
was a standard four-door sedan. Speed-
ometer reading stood at 2878 miles, and
the gross weight, including driver, ob-
server and full fuel tank, was 39Jcwt.
Points noted in driving through con-
gested city traffic were the facility with
which a car of this wheelbase could be
handled, the ready response to throttle
opening despite high gearing, the smooth
yet powerful brakes, and the extremely
solid and comfortable riding qualities
engendered by robust construction and
excellent suspension.
On the open road the most economical
and comfortable cruising speed appears
to be round the 50 mark, but a further
20 m.p.h. is still possible on less than half
throttle, the engine being quiet, smooth
and free from vibration at this speed.
In a test of coasting to determine free-
dom and correct alignment of transmis-
sion details the Buick 8/60 established
new figures for this series, travelling 746
yards from a 15 m.p.h. start before com-
ing to a standstill.
Maximum speed over a measured mile
was clocked in 40 2-ssec., averaging 89.1
m.p.h., and on this section the car held
the road perfectly, and the motor was
quiet and free from vibration.
Turning from the main highway, sus-
pension and roadholding qualities were
tested over several miles of rough, un-
made dirt roads with satisfactory results,
and in climbing the final 2 1-5 miles of
Kurrajong Mountain in the fast time of
3min. 7sec. the car gave further demon-
stration of its possibilities for fast tour-
ing without incurring the slightest risk
on corners and with the maximum of
passenger comfort.
Journeying back to town traffic tests
were made on the Castlereagh-road an
route to Penrith. The flexibility of the
motor was assured b running in top
as slowl as ib| over f £
f , ~A
5 °,w,7 ’^ ■A\ 50 y ( a 'f ds , on
H throttle still in top. Time for slow
section, 2min. 25sec., averaged 4.9
m -P’ h ’ ’ accelerated, 15sec., finishing at
65 m.p.h., averaged 48 m.p.h. From a
ctenffv Ift in TO mn h in ton took 6
Steady 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top took 6
3-ssec., from 10 to 30 in second 4sec.,
and from a standstill .to 50 m.p.h.
9 3-ssec., a really brilliant achievement.
Hydraulic brakes stopped the car in 22ft.
from 25 m.p.h. _ _
At the conclusion of the trip of 117
miles the average road speed, including
all fpctQ wac found tn hp 28 Q mn h
all tests, was found to De bb.y m.p.n.
Petrol consumed, 6|gal., gave an average
of 17 m.p.g. (33.8 ton miles).
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
M.E.B. (Port Lincoln, S.A.). —My ’25 model
sleeve-valve car has now covered more than
60,000 miles. Recently examined, compression
was found poor, petrol consumption (10
m.p.g .) and oil consumption excessive, top-gear
pulling very bad. (1) Would you suggest spend-
ing money on an overhaul ? (2) If so, would a
rebore alone improve matters ? (3) Are sleeves
likely to be worn ?
(1) No. (2) No. (3) Yes. Reconditioning
this motor would necessitate new sleeves,
pistons and reboring, and the expense involved
would be far greater than the car is worth even
were the repairs faithfully executed.
-F
S.H.D. (Lane Cove, N.S.W.).—My ’2B model
1-h.p. roadster has done 30,000 miles. Would
performance be improved by plating cylinder
head or fitting a thin Klingerit gasket ?
Attempts at boosting the power output in
an automobile of this age usually result in
serious mechanical complications, and a broken
crankshaft is an expensive replacement. Sug-
gest rather that you have a general recondition-
ing of the engine and be content with reliable
operation and as near as possible normal road
performance.
* * * * $
WJ.L. (Limbri, N.S.W.).—(I) The crown
wheel of my ’2B model six-cylinder car col-
lapsed recently. Since repair the assembly is
noisy. Cause and cure ? (2) Is there any
material other than paint or enamel that I
can apply with a brush, and, if so, is it neces-
sary to first sand down the panels and apply
a priming coat as when sprayed with dtico ?
(1) Unless new crown wheel and pinion was
fitted when overhauled one might expect the
assembly to be noisy owing to resetting the
gears at a different pitch angle, which is almost
impossible to avoid, but provided the work is
carefully done there should be no risk of
mechanical breakdown. Suggest checking
double thrust race, and, if badly worn, fitting
a replacement. (2) Brushing lacquers may be
applied in manner suggested. It is first neces-
sary to carefully rub down after thoroughly
clearing away oil, grease , and rust. On old
work a good finish cannot be obtained with-
out using filling putty and priming coat and
spending a good deal of time rubbing down
before applying final coatings.
'!■ -i- ifc
K.B. (Goondiwindi, Q.). —I notice (B.
22/4/’36) that you do not recommend colloidal
graphite in sump of Austin Seven. (1) In what
way does colloidal graphite affect the ball-races
on the shaft ? (2) Do you recommend colloidal
graphite in transmission, diff. and gearbox ?
(3) To what mileage do you recommend the
use of upper-cylinder lubricant ?
(1) No bad effect can be proved definitely,
but in the case of the Austin Seven the makers
suggest colloidal graphite should not be used,
and it saves trouble for owners if they adhere
to makers’ instructions. (2) Yes. (3) Continu-
ously, irrespective of mileage.
* * *
W.S.B. (Coolac, N.S.W.). —(1) I have just
had my car battery returned, and on test find
the first and third cells reading 1250, but the
middle cell nearly dead. Will fresh acid remedy
this ? If not, what can be done, and what is
the reason for the variation in the three cells ?
(2) Trembler blades on my four coils were
recently adjusted and screwed down until there
is only about 1-32 in. gap. Is this right, and
what should plug gap be ?
(1) Apparently centre cell is shorting inter-
nally, either owing to excessive accumulation
of sludge or to collapse of plates or insula-
tion. Fresh acid will not rectify the defect.
The only remedy is to have the dead cell dis-
mantled by an expert and, if necessary, recon-
ditioned. (2) Correct setting for trembler blade
coincides with highest frequency, and can be
determined only by experiment. Setting men-
tioned is usually approximately correct. Spark-
plug gap should be about 20 thou.
* * * *
E.S.G. (Perth). —(1) Is light oil suitable for
preserving cellulose finish on a car , or has it a
deleterious effect ? (2) How will I get best
petrol consumption from my 10 -h.p. ’36 model
car ? I wish to average 30 m.p.h. Should I
keep a steady 30 up and down hill or drive
faster up or down grades ?
(1) Oil has no bad effect, but is not suitable
for purpose suggested. Try one of the special
preparations advertised. (2) Drive with mini-
mum throttle opening to arrive at average
desired, i.e., slow up grades and coast on down
grades. If transmission is synchromesh there
is no risk in coasting, for gears can be selected
even with engine switched off or stopped.
* .f * *
W.H.R. (Bathurst, N.S.W.).—(I) Which of
the three utility trucks named would you
advise ? Economy is of great importance;
load, Icwt.; roads good and fairly level. (2)
Would you advise copperising heads ? (3) If
so, would it cause greater wear ? (4) Should
I get better fuel consumption ?
(1) Suggest C most suitable. (2) Yes. (3)
No. (4) Yes.
: i : * * ?jc
B.E.M. (Arcadia, Vic.). —(1) I submit several
types of car (details given of work intended).
Which one is best ? (2) Is reboring or relining
better for worn cylinders ?
(1) Advise heaviest type. (2) Other things
being equal, relining is better, for the reason
that the initial balance of reciprocating parts in
motor is preserved.
* * * *
J.G. (Dalby, Q —Criticism wanted of air-
cushion type front-wheel assembly ?
Impossible without further data. Suggest
getting in touch with a patent attorney in one
of the capital cities.
F.VV.B. (Cairns, Q.). —I have been offered
a used car (particulars of pric& and type sup-
plied). Is it good value ?
Average list price, but could not advise with-
out inspecting mechanical condition.
P.R. (Crawford, Q.). —(1) What is the maxi-
mum loaded trailer my 8-h.p. Acyl, car would
pull on fairly good road ? (2) Would a trailer
body fitted to a cut-down Ford T front axle
be suitable ?
(1) About 3cwt. to 4cwt., but the chassis of
your car was not designed to tow a trailer,
and you incur risk of mechanical trouble by
doing so. (2) Yes.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you i wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of lts circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar ‘House, - Carrington St:
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives. .
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Represelltative.
The truth about
Advertising!
We invite you to
take our word,, of
course . . , but in
case our sto r y
sounds too good to
be true, ask the
man who advertises
in
66
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
Net Sales , 61,361
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G Pike.- First Floor.
Newsoaoer'-House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger.' Warwick
' Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 34-40* Ludgate
Hill E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post’’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas,
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken fjili
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Aclvt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
b
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
f“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial, and Tourist Centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 93 years, and is the Newspaper read' by Northern
Tasmania to-day. J
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson &*., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth.
Western Australia.
information? Is there anything to prevent my sending
a radiogram to your Joyce? That makes you lift your
head!” - ' '
He tried to laugh it off.
“You’re trying to frighten me.”
“Of course I am! Men are a good deal like
small boys in their waywardness and need frightening
once in a while. But I’m not making empty threats,
and you know it. I’ve made up my mind to save
you from your own foolish self. You’ll hate me at
first, I suppose, but I shall have to bear with that.
Afterwards you may learn to think of me more
kindly.”
“Anyway,”, he said, returning to the idea of a
radiogram, “Joyce is not likely to take any notice of
a message from a complete stranger.”
“That, my dear, would depend entirely on the
wording of it. Suppose, for instance, I informed her
that your wife wished to see her as soon as possible
after landing?”
“The thing would be too obviously a lie.”
“And yet, Paul, I’ve been so near to being your
wife that the lie would have more than a dash of the
truth in it. And enough, also, to spoil that home-
coming mood of hers and make her anxious to have
a nice quiet talk with me.”
She was smiling at him through the gently
wreathing cigarette smoke, and he had to turn away
to hide the change in his face. He knew that Lola
was capable of doing this. And how could he explain
it to Joyce? He had half-planned to tell her about
Lola, knowing that he could never be altogether safe
from exposure. But the confession was to come later
when reunion was safely over. Any shadow of this ,
other woman’s influence upon them now would shatter
Joyce’s dream beyond any hope of return. He turned
back to Lola.
“Perhaps,” he said, “if I tell you our plans you
will understand what your interference will mean to
both of us —to all three of us. Lola, you must try
to understand! Put yourself in Joyce’s position and
see the thing through her eyes. There was no love-
making in Papua; we just had time to find that we
cared for each other, and then we had to part. Since
then she’s been more or less alone. Can’t you see
the way she must have been building towards the
future?”
He went on to tell her of Joyce’s letter, hating
himself while he explained their purpose, yet at the
same time believing that this was his only chance of
winning Lola’s forbearance. It was quite clear now
that secrecy was out of the question. She would get
into touch with Joyce and spoil everything. The one
great need was to hold her back —even for a little
while.
“And now you know everything,” he said a little
later. “I’ve told you because I still have faith in you.
I believe that under everything else you are still big
enough to see that the happiness of two lives is some-
thing to be protected. You may say that you are not
prepared for any such sacrifice. But I have tried to
show you that our relationship could never be the
same hereafter. Surely you must see that Joyce's
ideals are worthy of respect. To a certain extent she
is in your hands. For all I know, she may be .strong
enough to learn of my affair with you arid still-want
to marry me. But all the beauty will be gone. You
wofild be destroying something in her that could
never be replaced— not only her faith in me, but her
faith in life. It would be a sort of murder!” . i
She waved him aside.
"Nice words to use to me! And you needn’t
think, Paul, that you can play on my sympathy and
finer feelings just to be allowed to gel away with a
thing like this. You and your Joyce and her precious
ideals! A lot you care about such*things! All you
really want is to keep me out of the way.until youYe-
got the poor child once and for all!’.’ •
He made a gesture of defeat, knowing that further
words were useless. . /
“I might as well go now,” he said. “There’s
nothing more to say. You must do what you think
best.” ' s
He spent a bleak night wondering what'could
be done to keep her from approaching Joyce. A faint
hope rose in him that his words might yet work in
her thoughts for good. He would know next day.
Until then all further thought on the matter would
be a useless self-torment.
In the afternoon there was a note.
“Paul dear,” he read, “I’ve forgiven you once
again for, hasty remarks and a general unkindness.
I know how you felt, poor boy! And I’ve been
thinking in the night that it would be splendid for
both of us if we went away for a time and forgot
all this unpleasantness in some quiet place out of
England. There’s that village in Brittany you loved
last year, or perhaps if you wanted to go further
south we could find some green place in Provence.
You’re fond of Avignon. Come away-with me, Paul!
Forget this other business, and we’ll go oh as before.
It will be-better for both of us. You’re going to think
of me just a little, aren’t you, dear? After all, it
does .concern me, and my own happiness is mixed
up too closely with yours to allow me to hesitate. I
have to act for both of us, and a little later, when
we’re lying together in some grassy place in the south
with oaks and elms standing around and long, green
lanes with sunlight in them and . a glimpse of old
stones crumbling on a hillside within sight of the
Rhone (these are all your own words, my dear), you’ll
let your head rest in my lap and you’ll look up to
me and thank me in the voice I haven’t heard for a
weary time. And so, dear one, no more hesitation
and no more unkindness. Come to me in the morn-
ing and we’ll go off together. I’ve sent out for my
ticket to Paris, and I want you to ring me up and say
that you’re doing the same. I’ll love your voice over
the wire and you’ll love mine. There’ll be no more
harshness between us. Come, my Paul ; you know
that you don’t really want change and upheaval. You
hate changing your life and tackling something new.
The old relationship was good to both of us. Why
destroy such a good friend?”
He tore up her letter, but could not feel all the
resentment he wanted to feel. It was a further expres-
sion of the power that these alliances could have
upon a man. Her personality reached towards him
through that letter, and memories, not unpleasant,
were lurking in her reference to a holiday in Provence.
Undoubtedly they had shared some good times, even
though,she. had never willingly gone out-of London.
“The old relationship was good to both of us,” she
had written, and there was truth in that. But it was
' over now, and out of it was rising a relationship of
a /hew, alarming kind. Lola was making her bid
for' power, and if she were successful he knew that
it would be the end of him.
He went to the ’phone.
“There you are! ” came her voice, softened volup-
tuously. “I knew you would ring, and I’ve been
waiting so eagerly.”
“I only rang to say that I can’t do-as you sug-
gest.”
' There was a little silence at the other end of
the wire. Then her voice came slowly.
“You don’t mean that, Paul?”
■/ “1 do.” r „ . U
; “You sound terribly in earnest. I hope you
realise what I can do to you?”
“You can be damnable if you choose. But I’m
relying on something in you that I’ve always loved,
and still love —the best part of you, Lola.”
He felt faintly ashamed as he made this appeal,
a last concession to her appetite for applause.
“If you still love the best part of me,” she said
triumphantly, “you can’t stay away. still
mine! ” J|
“I’m afraid not. You don’t understand.This
is final, Lola.”
This time the silence was ominous.
“Then,” she said finally, “if you’re going to be
silly I can see I’ll have to be firm enough for both
of us. Paul, I’ll give you one more chance.”
“You’re generous! What are the conditions this
time?”
“Don’t sneer, please. I’ve bought my ticket to
Paris, and I want you to do the same.”
“And if I don’t I suppose you’ll send your radio-
gram? There’s still time.”
“Nice of you to remind me. But I’ve thought
of something better than. that. If you won’t come
to me I’ll have to go to you.”
“It’s out of the question, Lola. I won’t be here
to-morrow.”
“I know.”
“Well?”
“It won’t stop me from going to you.”
He was unwilling to understand her.
“But I’m going out of London, Lola. You can’t
follow me about like that.”
“Can’t I? You’ll see. ‘ I happen to know that
you’re hurrying out past Guildford to meet your
Joyce. I’ve decided that if you don’t come to me
to-morrow morning I shall have to share the happy
meeting.”
“Lola! ”
“Yes, dear?”
“You’re not serious?”
“Almost solemn, my dear boy. The whole thing
rests with you. Give it careful thought, Paul.”
And she put up the receiver.
(To be continued next week.)


Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
The Table of Progress
SATISFACTORY progress in business and social life, and
in affairs generally, is possible only if useful qualities
&re strengthened and desirable attributes developed in the
individual.
THE Pelman Institute submits the following table of the
more important of these qualities and attributes, with a
short note on each that may be helpful to readers.
Age; Men and women, whatever their age may
be, are standing still, slipping, backwards
or stepping upwards. The important
thing at any age is to be amongst those
who are stepping upwards.
Physique: Always of service, but not often
essential to progress. On the other
hand, no one goes far without stamina
and endurance, which are largely of the
spirit.
Experience: Always valuable. Experience of
one kind is often a jumping-off ground
for experience of another and wider kind.
Clear Speech: Necessary to full progress. It
indicates clearness of thought and defi-
niteness of intention. It helps us with
other people.
Demeanour and Bearing: Like speech, these
show something of the inner man, but
there are useful things Ho learn about
them.
Clothes: Sometimes very helpful. Clothes should
be appropriate to the work to be done
or to the occasion to be graced, and
when put on should be forgotten.
Formal Education: Very helpful if supported by
personal qualities.
Self-education: Always a great help. It creates
supporting qualities.
Influence: Useful as a start. Not as significant
as it once was. It is a man s own mnu-
ence that counts to-day.
Acceptance of Responsibility: A great attribute,
the foundation of trust.
A Definite Aim; A very great help. We know
where we are going and discover sign-
posts at every turn-off and cross road.
Interest: Very important. It gathers knowledge
and gives energy.
Power of Judgment: Always of great value. It
consists in gathering the facts and con-
sidering them without emotional bias.
Prompt Decision: A habit that makes the
power of judgment effective.
Observation: Necessary to judgment. It pro-
vides exact information. It also widens
interest, both general and particular.
Concentration: A most important aid to pro-
gress. Necessary to the finding, mar-
shalling and weighing of facts.
Self-confidence: The sum total of other quali-
ties. It grows from a very small seed-
one decision correctly made, one act
properly performed—and it is fertilised
by sound habits of thought and will.
Courage, industry, moral force and adjust-
ment to circumstances and environment arise
from the development of these essential quali-
ties, as do also serenity, alertness of mind,
watchfulness and preparedness.
The reader of these notes will be encouraged
by the discovery that the essentials of security
and progress in any walk of life are within the
reach of any man or woman with normal capa-
cities. The Pelman Institute accepts the respon-
sibility of developing the essential qualities in
such men and women.
Pelmanism is the science of success, of making every day a full day, a day of enterprise
and satisfaction. Over half a million men and women have realised this. More than
33,000 have enrolled with the Pelman Institute in Melbourne.
'• /V.-on' Message from
Mr- W. /. Ennever,
o;f ,tsbe Pelrnan In.'-Mlufce.
i,
mMi
.: K
Wmm
ill
iHSI
Photo Kay Dauyhun.
“It is because no system in the
world but Pelmanism can so surely,
so speedily bring, out the strong
points of your character, and build
up those possibilities which exist in
everybody's mental equipment, that
l ask readers to find out more
about Pelmanism. If any of my
readers had occupied my position
since Pelmanism was first brought
to the notice of the world, and had
seen the lives of students trans-
formed from mediocrity into
useful, successful careers through
Pelmanism, they would not for one
moment doubt the incalculable
value of this course of training
PELMAN1SM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and will,
so are his personal efficiency and his
standing with his fellows. If these habits
are bad he will be ineffective personally;
if they are good he will be strong, happy
and successful.
INTKKX.YTIQNA %j AVVAKDB:
MKSO., Geneva.
Niiney.. 1982. Paris, 1:088.
In “The Efficient Mind” you .will find
a full -explanation of the Pelman Course
and much interesting information on the
subject of Mental Training. This book
will be sent you free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1. Write for
it to-day, and it will be in your hands by
return of post. All correspondence is
regarded as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives. Call if you wish.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of
40 years’ standing. Its headquarters are m London. the
Melbourne Branch Institute was established 28 years ago.
The Pelman System is taught by Post. Full Particulars
are sent free and post free without obligation. Fill m and
cut out the form alongside and send it to the Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Call if you can.
mmm
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
mmm
mmm
TO “THE BULLETIN
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address ....
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
U? yS)r
A’"
, vO V> „
l(V \^ e G e °\v A
iK <v\3 v
*P
•*£&£§
\P
fA^v e # c
*^> c
mmm
mmm


#
*
;
o
DC
>‘
&
:
*>::•>;;• V>-'
THE- WHETTER
i. .: : ;i
5 «
t€>
0
c
s m
... ;
s
iiiil
I. A ' K
■ ■■■ j v
■HRI*
■ s ;; / ■ :
A Present with a Future
The World’s Best Safety
mM
■t
i :
Inserted by the ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific.
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Interstate Representatives: QUEENSLAND* —Butler > Brothers fAu>t.) Ply.. Ltd.. Creek Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Harris, Scuvfe and handover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
